

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 38.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1880.
Price—3d
t §wMin.
SATUEDAT. OCTOBEE 16, 1880.
“Come si fa.”
It is an axiom in the science of sociology that
precisely in the ratio that a people interests
itself, by taking practical action in any matter
which concerns it, will that matter resolve itself
in a manner that will either contribute to its
advantage or to its prejudice. The people of
Sydney would appear never to have met with
this axiom, or, if having done so, to have failed
to appraise it at anything like its real value and
importance. History is good for nothing, and
sociology is a barren field of research, if the les-
son is not learned that what a people desires must
be clamoured for; and if clamour is of no avail,
still more active measures must he taken. The
policy of come si fa, as Colonel Quackenboss
called it, never gave any community a single one
of the amenities which it can lay claim to, never-
theless come si fa would seem to bo the chosen
policy of Sydneyites. Come si fa means, in
effect, “ Oh, I can’t be bothered but all history
tells us that people who “can’t be bothered”
eventually get bothered in a way they little care
about. Come si fa did not win the “ battle of
Eunnymede,” as our good friend O’Connor
called it last week at the Masonic Hall; nor did
it effect American Independence; nor pass the
Reform Bill of ’32; nor establish Italian Unity;
nor emancipate the French from the thralls of a
corrupt and tyrannical Court. But what come
si fa always has done is to breed the conditions
that lead to these explosions; and it can never do
any more or any less. If the people concerned
had “bothered” themselves a little more about
affairs that directly affected themselves in pre-
vipus times, precisely similar results might have
been gradually arrived at without any such vio-
lent explosions ; and the people of those previous
times would, of course, have been also them-
selves much better off than they were. Come si fa
is simply a hot-bed for the forcing of tyrants,
and the trade of a tyrant is to tyrannise over
those whom he dare oppress —over those, in short,
who profess the doctrine of come si fa. Now it is
not in the least desirable that there should be
any explosion in Sydney, either in the near or in
the remote future ; and therefore those who for
themselves are content to let things “ slide,”
should remember that they owe a duty to pos-
terity as well as to themselves. “A stitch in
time saves nine,” and even if there is a little
“bother” in making it, still the claims of our
rising generation emphatically demand the en-
durance of the necessary “ bother.” These con-
siderations are of course suggested by the
remarkable apathy displayed by the people of
Sydney anent the encroachments of late attempted,
in various directions, on their liberties. Liberty
of speech was attacked by an attempt to gag all
public lectures not personally approved of by the
Colonial Secretary, and though a public meeting
was held and a few speeches made, the matter
was allowed to drop, for people could not be
“bothered” any further; and it was only the
good sense of ' the House that stifled it. Then
there was the miserable Proctor bussiness, and
again people could not be and, to
the disgrace of Sydney, actually was
done. Now we have the Supreme Court claiming
irresponsible power over the Press ; and what is
done ? True, a public meeting was held; but
where were the leaders, the representatives of the
people, who should have taken part in it ? They
could not be “bothered”; come si fa had taken
possession of them. This is not as it should be.
If a firm and united stand is not made against
these encroachments they will take root and
grow, and put out yet further ramifications, and
eventually defy eradication to any but the most
violent measures. Those who refuse to take part
in active opposition to them are sycophants, who
truckle to those in power, and tacitly proclaim
their approval of these encroachments. Thus
they are themselves in training for the exercise of
tyrannical rule, when it shall fall to them to use
it. Let, therefore, the electors of Sydney care-
fully take note of those who, having been chosen
to protect their liberties from infringement,
traitorously shirk their duties, prefering rather
the smiles of the great, the sweets of golden
promises, and the ease of the doctrine of come
fa.
Beatified at Last!
It may be accepted as a canon in social ethics
that “ man wants but little here belowand, if
he is of a hopeful temperament, he will not want
“that little long” —including Sir George Long
Innes and other small blessings. It has been for
years an amiable weakness of our present Premier
to desire the autographs of illustrious individuals
sent to him expressly, and we believe his collec-
tion is pretty extensive. He has had letters (to
omit lesser stars) from Bright, Carnarvon, and
Thomas Carlyle, and doubtless their receipt
added considerably to his felicity; but, in the
wildest flight of his imagination as a collector, he
could hardly have dreamt of receiving an epis-
tolary “favour” from a live Duke. 'lhe Fates
are often benign in their dispensations to ambi-
tious mortals; and that which Sir Henry Parkes
would, a few months ago, have looked upon as the
most improbable of occurrences, has actually come
to pass—he is in possession of a letter from his
Grace the Duke of Manchester, who doubtless
began the billet with the usual term of endear-
ment. This may seem to some persons a small
matter, and not one worthy of much (if any)
notice; but we look upon it in a very different
light. We think it will—it certainly should —
have the effect of energising the Premier to
higher flights of ambition. If he can manage
to manipulate the “fickle mob” during the
General Election, and return to Parliament
with a large majority of “ backers,” he will be in
a position to dictate to the minority in the
Assembly with hauteur and Dutch courage.
The result of his dictatorship may be a
baronetcy, or a baronage, under the hand of
the Queen ! The hope of such a distinction
must be perfectly dazzling; and as the word
failure, or its cognate phrase —“never say die" —
does not occur in the bright lexicon Sir Heney
politically uses, he may yet attain the last stage
of beatification —an autograph letter from his
most gracious Sovereign. If the missive of his
Grace of Manchester has made our Premier
comparatively happy, and justifies him in keeping
His nose amorphous high in air,
or, in other words, snubbing meaner mortals, we
cannot blame him. He makes use of them to
ascend the ladder of fame, and they should rejoice
in his ascension, particularly as he works hard in
their (as well as in his own) interests. To those
who irreverently look upon him as the “veiled
prophet" of Botany Bay, he may turn the eye of
scorn, and remind them that he is a historic
figure “in the foremost files of time," and
numbers among his friends nobles, poets, philo-
sophers, and divines (of the M'Guven type).
He must be —he is —happy.
The Sabbatarians and the Working Men.
Of all the flabby, weak-kneed gatherings ever
held in Sydney, that which was got together in
the Protestant Hall on Monday evening to back
up Sabbatarianism was the flabbiest and weakest-
kneed. If the extent and earnestness of public
opinion in opposition to Sunday “ railways, tram-
ways, steamboats, omnibuses, cabs, harbour-
excursions, libraries, museums, and lectures ” are
to be gauged by the speeches and attendance at
this meeting, then may we be assured that
common sense and freedom are not likely to be
seriously obstructed in this community. All the
big guns of the clerical platform were conspicuous
by their absence. The “ M'Guven ” was other-
wise occupied and could not appear. That highly
respectable “gun,” or rather “ Canon,” Stephen
sent an apology. The Eev. Dr. Kelynack
followed suit. The Bishop of Sydney “ had
married a wife and therefore could not come”
(Luke xxv, v. 20), or something of that kind.
Under the circumstances, the Very Eeverend the
Dean was the piece de resistance, and hence the
substantiality of the rest of the oratorical menu
may easily be estimated. The Hon. John
Frazer had to pose as a friend of the working
classes, and to become oracular concerning that
venerable institution, “ the thin edge of the
wedge,” as if the “edge” was not becoming
tolerably thick by this time. The Hon. W. J-
Foster had to try and convince a sceptical
people that the only “free” nations in the world
are those which are prohibited from enjoying
Sunday railways, vehicles, boats, libraries, picture
galleries, tea-gardens and lecture halls. As for
the rest of the speakers, they consisted of fifth-
rate pulpiteers who contented themselves with
rinsing out the dregs of their several Sabbath
sermon dishes. The result was a wishy-washy
concoction, but it was their best, and ought not
to bo severely criticised. The audience was
composed of the ordinary Sunday-school and
pious “ tea and muffin ” variety, and the working
men who were so persuasively invited and
entreated to be present were, like the heads of the
churches, more profitably engaged. This was as
it should be, for had they come, they would have
been compelled to hear themselves profusely
patronised, and at the same time insulted by
being told that in this democratic community
they will infallibly bo robbed of their one day s
rest in seven if they fail to cling to the feeble
skirts of the sanctified Sabbatarians. Heaven help
the bone and sinew of the colony, say we, if this
rotten remnant of ancient Pharisaism is to be their
only buckler against the rapacity of those selfish,
cruel capitalists who count “cash” as superior
to social well-being and advancement. Happily
the working classes are beginning to rise superior
to “buncombe” of this description, and to know
that if they want to be efficiently served, they
must serve themselves.
“'Man’ the Life-boat!”
The life-boaters of Newcastle are justly blamed
for want of spirit and energy in the matter of
the Susanne Godeffroy, but what would have
happened if the ill-fated ship had been thrown
upon the coast in the neighbourhood of Port
Jackson ? There is a life-boat at Watson’s Bay,
but it has no crew—and it has actually been out
for practice once in three years with a catch crew
of youths. The steamer Captain Cook would
have been useless in such weather. The life-
saving apparatus at the lighthouse might have
been rigged within three hours, and the signal
man would probably have seen two ensigns flying
instead of one —both decidedly upside down. On
all accounts we think it very judicious of her to
have selected Newcastle in preference. A wreck
here would give enough work for a dozen Boards
and Eoyal Commissions.
Charles Janies Roberts, ex-Mayor of
Sydney.
The best gift Providence ever gave an individual
is an equable temperament. One adept in phreno-
logic lore says it is the nervous, another the
nervous-sanguine, a third the nervous-sanguine-
lymphatic, and so on through sundry changes.
Leaving aside this quasi-scientific jargon, it must
be admitted that the man who blends gravity
with hilarity, practical common sense in the con-
cerns of every-day life with a genial admixture of
the social virtues —who, in a word, can pass from
“ grave to gay, from lively to severe ” without
difficulty—may be said to possess, in an eminent
degree, “a sound mind in a sound body.” This
mens sana in corpore sano will not suffice to form
a character which posses a distinct individuality.
It requires some animating principle, such as love
of Art, a pure Ambition, Patriotism, or some
other ennobling virtue to give the finishing touches
to Nature’s gifts. The Promethean fire is not all
a myth; it still inspires men to make heroic
struggles, and gives a chaste glow to the self-
sacrificing energies of women. These thoughts
flash before us, faster than we can dash them
down, as a meet introduction to the brief memoir
we are about to give of a distinguished citizen of
Sydney —a worthy native-born Australian. To a
serene and practical mind Charles James Eoberts
adds a genial disposition and a refined taste.
His modesty is not too sensitive to make him
weak, but sufficiently evident to take away all
suspicion of presumption. His character would.
MR. CHARLES JAMES ROBERTS, EX-MAYOR OF SYDNEY.


be timid if he had not possessed pluck
tempered by education and study. He was
born in this city, on the 29th of March,
1846, and is consequently in the thirty-fifth
year of his age. Ho springs from a stock of
great commercial activity and enterprise, and has
certainly acquired or inherited the distinguishing
characteristics of his forefathers. His initiation
into the mysteries of etymology and the multipli-
cation-table occurred in St. James’s Grammar
School, Phillip-street, when that institution was
under the presidency of the late Rev.
Thomas Drnitt and the Rev. Canon Rich.
On the opening of the Sydney Grammar School
(1857), under the hoadmastership of W. J.
Stephens, Esq., M.A., now of the New
School, Darlinghurst, young Charles Roberts
became one of its first alumni, and for
five years distinguished himself in both the
upper and the lower schools. He took to classics
(especially Greek) almost by instinct, and if cir-
cumstances had permitted him to complete a Uni-
versity course he would have become one of the
most critical and exact scholars in the country.
Of the truth of this conjecture the writer relies
on foundatory information directly received from
a master of the Grammar School, who expressed
great regret that “business” had spoiled a
promising scholar—or rather, had interfered with
the maturing of his scholarly attainments. If he
had gone into the legal profession—his first inten-
tion —ho would have secured a large body of
clients, because he possesses, in a marked degree,
those qualities which win and fix the confidence
of men of the world. He was destined for business,
and soon after leaving school became the head of
that central hotel of which his father is now the
proprietor, and which may be said to be a real
“live” hostelrie. He first turned his attention
to municipal politics in 1877, on the retirement of
Mr. John Macintosh from the civic representation
of Macquarie Ward. Mr. Roberts became a can-
didate, Was elected, and attended to the duties of
his new office with such zeal, assiduity, and ur-
banity, that he was elevated to the mayoral chair
the following year. The envious or invidious —it
is hard to say which—circulated gossip to the
effect that Mr. Roberts got his honors easily be-
cause he had money to spend. Well, it is quite
true he had it (the fruits of his own industry and
carefulness), and it is equally true he spent
it liberally, but withal in a hospitality so
discriminating that it has never been chal-
lenged. It is not everyone that can act
a good Amphytrion. Mr. Roberts seems to
the manner born. He knows not only how
to play the host with ease and tact, but he
has an easy manner and unaffected style, which
immensely please his guests. His banquet to his
Excellency the Governor, Lord Augustus Loftus,
soon after his arrival, was one of the most
elegant entertainments ever given in Sydney;
while the fancy dress ball given in the Exhibition
Building, Prince Alfred Park, February 19,
1879, to which 3000 invitations were issued,
is still in the recollection of “the beauty
and chivalry” of Sydney as an unqualified social
triumph. The distinguished foreigners and
visitors from all parts of the colonies enter-
tained by Mr. Roberts during his Mayoralty
educed a spontaneous and emphatic expression of
their appreciation of his liberality and kindness.
But it was not on the brighter side of his duties
that he alone distinguished himself that year; he
devoted every hour he could spare to official
duties, presided at nearly every meeting of the
Council, and personally co-operated in a most
zealous manner with the Health Tfficer (Dr. G. P,
Dansey) in that gentleman’s humane crusade
against the violation of the laws of decency and
health. Mr. Roberts has a prepossessing personal
appearance and a dignified hearing, but without
the least tinge of affectation. He seemed to like
the office of Mayor, and many citizens regretted
that he had not a second “ innings.” Long before
the days of Shakespeare the English “ City
Fathers” liked and cultivated pomp, parade, and
festivity. How neatly the poet of all time limns
them for ever with a few strokes :
Now, behold,
In the quick forge and working-house of thought.
How London doth pour out her citizens 1
The Mayor, and all his brethren, in best sort,
Like to the senator of th’ antique Rome,
With the plebeians swarming at their heels, —
Go forth, and fetch their conquering Quasar in.
So it is in act and spirit to-day. The Mayor is
the mouthpiece of the citizens, their first magis-
trate, and a creation of their own discernment.
Mr. Roberts aims hereafter at a higher sphere of
usefulness, and dignity. He is a candidate for the
representation of East Sydney in the new Parlia-
ment. He has received the largest requisition
ever presented in Sydney, and is morally certain
of being returned, for we feel sure the citizens will
embrace the opportunity of doing honor to a man
who, at a most critical period of our history,
maintained the dignity of the civic chair, and
offered to the distinguished visitors of the Exhi-
bition period a reception worthy of the great
cities of the mother country.
Concert to Miss Marie St. Clair.
Tub farewell concert tendered to. Miss Marie St.
Clair on last Tuesday evening was, as it should be. a
most brilliant success. The hall of the School of Arts
was literally crammed, and the concert one of the most
pleasing we.have ever heard. Herr Alpen, Mr. Charles
Huonerbein, Mr. S. Hodge, and Mr. Cork lent their most
efficient aid as instrumentalists, and Messrs. Hinchey,
Parkinson, Fairfax, and Eainford were equally suc-
cessful as vocalists. The interest of the concert was
of course centered in the gifted sisters, and they cer-
tainly never appeared or sang to more advantage. Miss
Mario St. Clair led off the triumphs of the evening with
Mendelssohn’s grand aria, “ But the Lord is mindful,”
and in response to the hearty encore with which she
was greeted gave “Rocked in the cradle of the deep”
in a style that has scarcely ever been equalled, certainly
never surpassed, in Sydney. In the second part this
talented lady sang “ The Land of Liberty,” written ex-
pressly for her by Mr. Lewis Soott and Herr Hugo Alpen.
This song is far above the average style of colonial
compositions. The sentiments, and the wordsin which
they are expressed, are truly patriotic and poetical,
and even apart from the music shonld make this a
popular song with all Australians. The music is also
good, and proves Herr Alpen is a master of his art.
The lower register of Miss St. Clair’s voice is used
in this piece with great effect, and the singing of it
alone would stamp her as the best contralto of New
South Wales. From the lowest note to the highest
there is not a single inharmonious tone; her upper
register is as clear and sweet as a silver bell, and her
lower would remind old conoert-goers of the days of
Sara Flower. Her taste is most correct, her style that
of a true artist, and in saying farewell to Miss St.
Clair we take ’leave of one of Australia’s most gifted
children. May her future success be equal to her abili-
ties. Miss Madeline was in fine voice on this occasion
also, and her opening scena, “ Come per me sereno,"
and the finale, “ Sovra il sen,” were given in the most
finished and pleasing manner possible. Campa’s duet,
“ T’el Kammenti,” was also a treat, the sweet voices of
the talented sisters blending in the softest and most
enchanting strains; and the enthusiastic manner in
which all Miss Madeline’s numbers were encored,
points to her as one of the first of Sydney’s vocal
favourites. Mr. Hinchey, as usual, sang with
commendable taste, and Mr. Eainford’s voice
seemed as fresh and clear as when we first
heard him. The appearance of Mr. Andrew Fairfax
was the signal for prolonged applause, and the render-
ing of his “Pinsuto” song was good enough to call
forth the wish from many to see him oftener on our
concert platforms. Mr. Parkinson also contributed
greatly to the success of the evening. He has a clear,
pleasing, tenor voice, and his musical abilities are
evidently far above the average. The saxophone selec-
tion by Mr. S. Hodge was deservedly encored, and it is
an instrument that might be most effectually used in
accompanying bass solos, &c., during the coming opera-
tic season. We are indeed pleased to find that such
a musical treat as this con cert was appreciated as it
deserved, and we are sure every lover of music
will with sorrow bid adieu to the genial face and tune-
ful voice of Marie St. Clair. Herr Hugo Alpen deserves
more than a word of praise for his careful accompany,
ing. If he has a fault at nil, it is that of being too
considerate for his singers. The “ Don Pasquale ’’ solo
by Mr. Charles Huenerbeia was perfect, and the whole
concert one of the most enjoyable we have heard for
many a day.
FACTS FOCUSSED.
Between 11th and 17th September, 1117 tons
sugar were exported from Queensland. A hen which
sat on eleven eggs in Gympie succeeded in hatching
twelve chicks —so says a local paper. The Auckland
Weekly News says four returned diggers consider that
there are forty-six claims on Temora equal to any in the
world. But they also say there are twenty duffers for
every good claim. A child at Mt. Gambier has died
from the effects of a bite on her arm by a black spider.
She was afflicted with large abscesses all over her body,
and suffered terribly. The Ida P. C. at Maytown,
Palmer, has now at grass 300 tons stone, which is
expected to average 3oz. The mine is one of the best
in Australia. Sugar planting is proceeding on the
Endeavour River. The loss of the gold recently stolen
in transit from Cooktown to Sydney is still wrapped in
mystery. The shipment of rabbit-skins from N.Z. to
America has proved a decided success. Lee Guy,
a Chinese, for the Kyehum (N.Z.) Imurder, has been
committed for trial. The case against him is rather
weak. For issuing valueless cheques, Thomas Field
has been sentenced to four years’ imprisonment by a
Melbourne suburban court. The Supreme Court at
Wellington (N.Z.) has upheld the decision of the court
below, making a person named Duncan responsible
under the Destitute Persons Relief Act for the support
of his half-brother. Au International Exhibition is
proposed in New Zealand. ——At Timaru (N.Z.) a young
man was sued by the creditors of a lady whom he had
married for her debts incurred prior to marriage.
An action was brought at the Thames Goldfield (N.Z.)
to compel a carpenter, who had done an odd job for a
mining company, to take out a miner’s right, but the
magistrate held that this was stretching the law too
far, as it was not necessary in such circumstances, and
gave judgment against the mining inspector.—The
N.Z. Civil Service retrenchment has gone this far:
A postmaster in Otago, who performs his duties with-
out pay, has been notified that his salary will be reduced
10 per cent. An Auckland paper says there is a
striking parallel in the Public Works policy of New
Zealand and that of N.S. Wales. Another of the
N.Z. Maori prisoners has died from consumption.
The N.Z. Civil Service is to be re-organised.——A lamp-
lighter inWellington (N.Z.) attempted to commit suicide
by taking 2J ounces of laudanum. The dose was too
strong, and only acted as an emetic.-—-French vine-
growers have started a large farm in the Auckland
province. An auctioneer at Wellington was fined £5
and costs for exercising his business after 7 o’clock
at night. A man named Hitchens was severely
injured at Wellington, while launching a boat, through
one of the guys giving way. Mr. Fisher is in Auck-
land, representing the firm of Messrs. Heage and Co.,
of Melbourne, in Robinson the clothier’s estate.
The Melbourne Cabmen’s Union have forwarded a letter
of sympathy to the Christchurch cabbies for their
endeavours to resist the encroachments of the tram-
ways in New Zealand. Potatoes are a drug in the
Christchurch market jnst now. A new Masonic
journal has been started in Christchurch. A New
Zealand gentleman named Pemberton has patented a
new method of manufacturing candles. It is said to be
a great improvement on the old plan. The Auckland
papers will not, report Garrard’s “unemployed” meet-
ings. The N.Z. Insurance Company are erecting a
building in Auckland,which will cost £2OOO. A woman
in a shooting gallery in Wellington was shot through
the arm by the accidental discharge of a gun. A man
named Johnson, residingat Gisborne (N.Z.), committed
an outrage on his own daughter, three years of age.
Eighty or ninety officers are to be dismissed from the
Melbourne G.P.O. One of the reefs of the Boorook
silver mine, opened bnt a short time, has already yielded
50,000 ounces of silver, of the value of £lO,OOO. The
exports of N.S.W. last year reached £13,086,819, and
the imports £14,198,817. Mr. Bruce, Government In-
spector of Stock of N.S.W., is strongly in favour of
the colonies uniting to pass a single Diseases in Stock
Act, so that the inspection may be uniform. He is giv-
ing evidence before a select committee in Melbourne.
Sir Henry Parkes’ recent Albnry speech has been
reprinted in pamphlet form for distribution at Mel-
bourne International. A. T. Clark, Victorian Com-
missioner of Customs, says he is saving £25,000 per
annum by the changes in his department. Bertha
Worthington, an dbandonnie, died last week in Mel-
bourne Hospital from an overdosejof hydrate of chloral.
At Moorabhin, rear Melbourne, George Lee, 23,
committed suicide by drowning himself in a tank. He
tied both hands and feet together—“ neck and heels,”
asa witness called it. He was married just 3 weeks.
Robertson, Brothers, of Colac, shear 52,000 sheep this
year. Croydon School of Arts is going to send a dele-
gate to the Technological Conference to be held in Syd-
ney on the 28th October. The Parramatta Volunteer
Fire Brigade attained its majority (21 years) last week.
—The bnilding known as the old Supreme Court, Queen-
street, Brisbane, has been sold by auction, and realised
£l4O. A rumour is current in Grafton that the
Walter Scott Reef, near Cangi, has turned out some
stone yielding soz. to the ton. The Australian
Frozen Meat Export Company (limited) ships 250 tons
of frozen meat by the steamer Protos, which is char-
tered to leave Melbourne for London on 30th instant.
The meat will consist of the carcases of about 7000
sheep and a quantity of Iheef. —Based on the last cable
quotations, following are the equivalent rates of New
South Wales and Victorian loans: —N.S.W. 4 p c. loan,
£100; Victorian, £B7 45.; N.S.W. 4J p. c. loan,
£112; Victorian, £9B; N.S.W. 5 p.c., £125; Victo-
rian, £109; N.S.W. 6 p. c., £150; Victorian, £l3O.
For demanding food with menaces and force, and pre-
senting a loaded gun at a trooper, Thomas Bayley has,
at Adelaide, been sentenced to four years and six
months’ hard labour. Augustus Radford, for forging
and altering an impress order on the Engineer-in-Chief,
was sentenced to three years and six months’ hard
labour. A valuable silver and lead mine has been
discovered in this colony, about 120 miles north-west
of Menindie, and about three miles from the South
Australian boundary. The reef is about four feet wide,
has been traced along the surface for about 300 yards,
and in some places stands four feet high. The
attendances at the new Art Gallery in the Domain have
up to the present been very large. An attempt was
mode to upset the Moore Park tram the other day by
some one who rammed stones between the points.
There are violent dissensions among the Darlington
councillors. The balance-sheet of the Shipwreck
Society of N.S.W. shows a credit balance of £282.
For personating a detective while drunk John Cadman
was fined £2, or a month in default. It is stated that
Messrs. Hudson Bros, are about to remove their very
extensive workshops to Parramatta Junction. Mao-
namara, charged with murder, at Adelong, was convicted
of manslaughter and sentenced to twelve months’
imprisonment. A policeman is badly wanted at the
Stannifer. The miners of the Bulli and Mount
Pleasant pits lost by their month’s strike between
£5OOO and £6OOO. At the shearing shed im the
Boggabri district 46 men consumed 1300 lbs. of beef in
six days, being an average of 23Ibs. per man per week.
Henry, for stealing letters from the Post-office, was
sentenced to eighteen months’ imprisonment. Peter
Felix has been sentenced to death for the murder of
John O’Neill at Stanthorpe. The beat speech yet
made by Lord Augustus Loftus was that delivered by
him at Deniliqnin on Monday, in which he urged the
necessity of the colonies cultivating friendly relations
with a view to federation.
Nearly 500,000 despatches pass monthly through
the pneumatic telegraph tubes of Paris.
The pack of salmon this year in the United
States is about 534,000 cases, something like 100,000 in
excess of last year’s return.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Victorian Church Assembly meets on the
9th inst.
The Sydney Sunday School Institute movement
is progressing.
The Rev. Mr. Chalmers reports favourably of
the New Guinea missions.
A Presbyterian Conference is to be held in Mel-
bourne, third week in November.
The Jewish Synagogues in England are abolish-
ing mourners’ cloaks at funerals.
The Methodist Mission in the United States
recently received 110 Indians into its fold.
The Presbyterians of Sydney rather coldly recog-
nise the Sunday School Union movement.
All the Bishops who took part in the ceremony
of the coronation of Queen Victoria are dead.
The French Government have given enlarged
facilities to Protestant missionaries in Tahiti.
This colony will be well represented at the
November Presbyterian Conference in Melbourne.
Archbishop Vaughan and his clergy have been
in “retreat,” at Villa Maria, during the past week.
Two Protestant colonial clergymen have opened
offices in London for the sale of New Zealand lands.
In England, in April last, 200 Church of England
clergymen preached temperance lectures in one day.
It is stated that Ritualism has given the Roman
Catholic Church about 2000 converts during the last
few years.
A new sect, the Oregon Adventists, travel about
the Western States of America in what they call their
Forest Grove Tent.
At the annual meeting in connection with the
new cathedral of St. Mary, held on Sunday night, over
£3300 was handed in.
The Illustrated Christian Weekly is the
latest addition to the religions publications of Sydney.
Nicely printed, good illustrations, price 6d.
A movement is afoot at Dunedin to devise “ a
practicable scheme for holding evangelistic services
throughout the bounds of the Presbytery.”
The Catholic Bishop of Ontario (says an Ameri-
can paper) has confirmed 8000 coaverts from various
denominations since his consecration in 1862.
Bishop Herzog has left Switzerland for the
United States, with the object of promoting a scheme
for the federation of all the Christian,Churches of the
Universe.
Fifty-seven orphan boys, sent out by the Now
York Catholic Protectory, were scattered recently
among farmers in the State. The Society has now
found homes for 1500 boys.
Cardinal Manning hae written to the Archbishop
of Toronto to find homes in the Canadian Dominion for
the Catholic waifs of London. The Archbishop replied
simply—” Send them on.”
The Archbishop of Canterbury goes into the
highways and hedges for his guests. He recently enter-
tained 600 poor people at Lambeth, and presented each
visitor with a bunch of flowers.
M. Hyacinthe Loyson (Pore Hyaointhe) has been
engaged, at the invitation of the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, in delivering at Willis’s Rooms, London, a series
of four lectures on “Positive Christianity."
The Rev. Thomas Holme, of Maryborough (Q.),
one of the hardest working clergymen in Australia,
finding his health impaired, has determined on a voyage
to England, and has resigned his incumbency.
The congregation of All Saints’ Church, Peter-
sham, have held a meeting and decided in favour of
free seats. However, one gentleman threatened to
compel the majority, by a Supreme Court mandamus, to
recognise his right to a certain seat.
The Christian Brothers (a Roman Catholic body)
who number 14,000 in the United States, and teach
600,000 pupils, lay claim to the first introduction of the
"simultaneous" in contradistinction to the “indivi-
dual" system, which former is now generally adopted
throughout the world.
Canon Ryle says that the revision of the Bible
now proceeding in England will bring the people closer
to the Word of God. The Canon, remarking on the
assistance given by the Nonconformists in revising the
Scriptures, sees no reason why the two churches should
not work side by side in distributing them.
Mr. Thomas Spurgeon, son of the great English
preacher, has been addressing the members of the Syd-
ney Y.M.C.A. During his disconrae, Mr. Spurgeon
remarked that “ Lord Palmerston had stated that all
children were bom good ; but he was told that his lord-
ship had had no children, and was not a good judge.”
The Stockbridge Indians of America and their
kindred tribes are believed by some to be the remnants
of the Jewish nation. One of their old historians says
his people once possessed “ the Good Book given by the
Great Spirit, bnt that having lost the power to read it,
they had buried it with their chief.” The tribe are
now rapidly being civilized into oblivion.
The appointment of Mr. David Marks to the
E residency of the Synagogue, in place of the Hon. Saul
amuel, seems to have given nnmixed satisfaction to
the whole of the Jewish community. Mr. Marks is
popular, liberal and progressive, and his tact and busi-
ness capacity is undoubted. Some malcontents there
may be, no doubt; they are to be found in all bodies ;
and “thepeople” are not less likely to be without the
presence of the stiff-necked and the murmuring element
under the rule of the modern David any more than they
were in the days of the meek and ancient Moses.
Thurlow Weed made a long reply recently
in the New York papers to Robert Ingersoll’s “infidel”
lectures. He remarked that “ the ministry of our day
was a ministry of peace, charity, and good-will. This
generation was learning to love and serve rather than
to dread and distrust our Creator and Saviour. What-
eve- grounds existed formerly to tempt scoffers and
revilers, the religion of onr time disarmed and silenced
unprejudiced criticism. Colonel Ingersoll, on entering
upon active life, had chosen the left instead of the right
pathway, and had become a reviler of, instead of a
believer in, a religion which has been making the world
wiser, better, and happier for almost nineteen centuries.”
The writer points to the practical moral work done in
New York, and then asks Colonel Ingersoll to give a
similar instance of the efficacy of his “evangelistic"
services.
The San Francisco Ministerial Union met re-
cently to arrange for the visit of Moody and Sankey.
A reception was agreed upon. In the course of his
speech the Rev. Dr. Platt mode some startling remarks.
He said he would heartily second the efforts of his
brethren in the work, but as for himself, he was dis-
couraged with the prospects in San Francisco. Money-
getting was the only aim in life ; those who got money
studiously avoided churches, and those who had none
or had lost their all likewise shunned churches, and
wandered about the city from place to place with des-
pair in their hearts. He did not see how the churches
were to be filled except with importations from the
East. Here atheism, materialism, and rationalism
seemed to pervade the minds of the people. Even from
the common schools religion had been banished. He
understood the Word or mention of God was stricken
from all text-books, and that there were no religious
exercises.
To Correspondents.
K.P.—Thanks. Geo. J. M. S.—Very much
obliged for the information. Glad to hear from you
again. “Jim” —ln our next. “A Lady Sub-
scriber” —Obviously “hits in the dark” at some private
individual. E. J. B.—lf you look up our file you will
notice that what you suggest was done by us some time
ago.
To our Readers.
Thb Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad to
receive information from correspondents living in town
or country or the other colonies on subjects of general
interest, more especially on matters connected with
sport, the drama and fashion. Communications from
ladies will be especially welcome.
“The Bulletin.”
Thk Melbourne people, who are ahead of gu
Australia, are content again to follow Sydney
The Melbourne Bulletin, a journal intended
to be a copy of The Bulletin, will, it j s
nounced, shortly make its appearance. Imitation
being “ the sincerest form of flattery,’* it affords
us much gratification to notice that onr Southern
friends are so enamoured of our successful paper
as to be induced not only to copy it in style but in
name.
WOMAN ITEMS.
There is talk of dyeing the hair to match the cor.
tume.
The prettiest hands in Rome, it is declared hr
artists, are those of an American lady. J
“Would yon really take me for eighteen-’’
“ No ” replied he, “ hnt I’d take you for life.”
A woman cannot become a successful lawyer
She is too fond of giving her opinion without pay.
A woman should wait till she is asked to give
her love as, in a ballroom, she waits till she is asked to
dance.
A lady now-a-days does not mind having her ace
recorded in the family Bible. It is almost sure to re-
main a secret.
It is said that Sara Bernhardt has an electrify,
ing effect upon an audience. This is because she’s like
a telegraph wire.
A Goulburn scribe says that Lady Augustus
Loftus’ reception was “ patronized ’’ by nearly all the
ladies of the city.
If you ever go out leaving the children alone
with the matches, it’s as well to put the insurance
policy in your pocket.
Lightning seldom strikes twice in the same
place, and a homely woman feels that a similar law gov.
erns question-popping.
An American writer says there is probably no
more unhappy woman in the world to-day than Eugenie,
the late Empress of the French.
A newly-married man has discovered that the
difference between an umbrella and a woman is that yon
can sometimes shut the umbrella up.
“ Aurelia, dear, when we were married we were
made one, and I thought I should be that one ; but a
man can’t always tell what may happen.”
It is stated that a new pattern of striped stock-
ings is on the market. We always thought that striped
stockings were on—but we can’t say any more.
Ladies are like watches —pretty enough to look
at; sweet faces and delicate hands; but somewhat
difficult to “regulate” after they are set a-going.
A lady who recently indulged her infant’s taste
for sliced cucumbers and milk, has had a statement to
the effect that “ The Lord hath taken away ” engraved
on the tombstone.
“ Love is blind,” and that’s the reason why it
can get along with one small handlamp, turned down
as low as it will go, as well as under a blazing chan-
delier of fifty burners.
The Parisian ladies are becoming veritable dan-
dies, owing to the masculine tendencies of fashion.
The ladies wear jackets, paletots, coats, collars, and
cravats, after the fashion of Brummel.
Mrs. Musgrave, wife of Governor Musgrave, of
Western Australia, has been bequeathed £2OOO by her
uucle Dudley Field, the celebrated American jurist.
Mrs. Field comes into the greater portion of the estate.
A man who recently got a divorce, re-married
three days after the decree. “ Bedad," remarked an
Italian gentleman, “ he couldn’t have had much respict
for his first wife, to be marrying again so soon afther
lavin' her."
At Dieppe, in Prance, the following notice has
been issued by the police : —The bathing police are re-
quested, when a lady is in danger of drowning, to seize
her by the dress, and not by the hair, which often
remains in their grasp.
The young woman who is going to marry the
son of the Crown Prince of Prussia is not much to be
envied, notwithstanding the superior grandeur of hie
family. His left arm is paralyzed, and always will be,
and waltzing is his only accomplishment.
At Chicago the other day Mrs. Belva Lockwood
denounced as a crime the action of the Chicago School
Board forbidding the employment of married women as
teachers, saying that a woman has as much right to
support a husband as a husband has to support hia
wife,
Horace Walpole, in describing a fire, inciden-
tally wrote of Lady Margaret Herbert’s providence,
who asked somebody for a pretty pattern for a night-
cap. “ Lord!” said they, “ what signifies the pattern
of a nightcap?” “Oh, child,” said she, “hnt you
know, in case of fire.”
When a woman gets up in the morning and
finds a lot of broken wooden toothpicks scattered over
the floor under the gas-burner, she may not say any-
thing to her husband about the occurrences of the pre-
vious night, but her eyes will be a whole volume of ad-
jectives in big job type.
The Chinese ambassadress in London, who enjoys
the “courtesy title” of Marchioness, appears to be all
the rage in court and fashionable circles, and “does the
honours” in a most graceful and intelligent manner.
There are new Chinese slippers, Chinese robes, &c., and
the hair is dressed d la “ Marchioness.”
“What are those purple posies down by the
dell ?” asks Gus. “If you mean,” replies Clara,
“those glorious masses of empurpledeffloresence that
bloom in bosky dells and fringe the wimpling stream-
lets, they are campanula rotundiflora.” Gus plays
billiards for a living: Clara goes to a girls’ college.
In the U.S. recently a woman went into the
show business on a small scale with a bogus petrified
baby, which she wheeled from town to town in a peram-
bulator, telling a story of its sickness, death, and flnnl
transformation into stone. The figure had been well
made-up as to its head and arms, but plain marks
of the chisel were found elsewhere.
I would not cause a shade of pain
To overspread that face so fair;
Ah! no, dear girl, nor would I deign
To hdd a mite unto your hair.
I would not have that lovely hue
Of features clouded by a frown,
Bnt duty bids me say to you,
Your back hair’s all a-coming down.
A selector in the Wimmera district (Vic.) re-
cently agreed to sell his daughter. A Chinaman was
the unlucky purchaser of the damsel, and alleges that
he paid sums amounting to over £5O, together with
numberless presents to the lady herself, and new suits
for her little brothers, and all the satisfaction he has
had to date has been the possession of a scrap of dirty
paper bearing these words: —“I ,of ——, hereby
promise to deliver my daughter Mary to within one
month of this date.”
Man that is married to a woman is of many days
and full of trouble. In the morning he draweth his
salary, and in the evening behold it is all gone. It is as
a tale that is told, it vanisheth and no one knoweth
whither it goeth. He riseth up clothed in the chilly-
garments of the night, and seeketh the somnolent
paregoric wherewith to sooth his colicky infant
posterity. He becometh as the horse or the o*»
and draweth the chariot of his offspring. He spendetb.
his shekels in the purchase of fine linen to cover the
bosom of his family, yet himself is seen in the gates or
the city with hut one suspender. Yea, he is altogether
wretched. •
Owing to pressure on our space we are comp dlea
to omit from this issue several matters of much interns*.
A notice of Miss Pomeroy's admirable impersonationor
Juliet is reluctantly withheld. We may, however, .in-
mention that the London Comedy Company draw gooa.
houses, and their popularity shows no abatement.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Bermagui rush ia overdone.
A police camp ia being established at Greta, in
the Kelly country.
Mr. Thomas Walker, of Concord, haa contri-
to the Bennett Fund.
Mr. William Camb, of the Metropolitan Hotel,
died yesterday morning, at 11.30.
At the Technological College there is no instruc-
tion given in astronomy, geology, or botany.
Trickett cables that ha has got the influenza,
but still maintains that he can btat Hanlan.
Miss Nellie H. Mansell haa left the Stray Leaves
Company, and is now open for engagements.
The Melbourne International is a gigantic ad-
vertisement of the mineral wealth of New South
Wales.
There are two hundred millions of capital lying
idle in London, and about one hundred millions in the
United States.
Judge Black, writing from Paris, says the
Republic is pompons, expensive, and as showy as an
oriental monarchy.
A terrible railway accident has occurred on the
Pittsburg (U.S.A.) railway. Twenty persons were
killed on the spot.
The certificate of the captain of the Jedda, who
so shamefully deserted bis ship in the Red Sea, has
been suspended for three years.
Mrs. E. Abbott, who was in business for over
30 years In Oxford-street, as a bookseller and stationer,
was burned out on Sunday last.
We hear on good authority that a penny daily
morning paper, advocating independent principles, will
shortly be issued in Melbourne.
Four hundred Chicago shoemakers have struck
because competition with, convict labour has reduced
the wages of the best workmen to £3 a week.
Mr. Hugh George, at the Herald Wayze-
goose, stated that Saturday’s issue of our Hunter,
street contemporary contained one million type.
It is stated that a moa was recently seen at
Waiau, N.Z., by a party of diggers. The bird stood 9
feet high, and ran away with a screech like an American
locomotive.
The Berryites who represent the consumers and
producers respectively will shortly have a terrible row
on the question of the present agitation for a tax on
feeding grains.
The reason for Mr. Djedsted’a suspension is
that he is held officially responsible for the disappear-
ance of some cube sets, for stealing which a man named
Haddon is in custody.
The Government Astronomer says that a spot is
visible on Jupiter which doubtless is on the body of the
planet, and not atmospheric. So Mr. Jupiter, emulat-
ing Venus, the Earth, and Mars, would appear to be
going in for continents.
Kate Kelly visited Geelong the other day to
interview a woman who claims to be able to discern the
future in the life of each of her patrons by glancing at
the wrinkles in the face or the lines in the palm of one’s
band. This woman has few customers, happily all
females.
Mr. B. Casey Towers, Mr. W. H. Lloyd, Mr.
James Stapely, and Mr. I*. Young, the Government
Geologist, left Bermagui the other evening in an open
boat, which has since been found at Corunna Point.
It is believed that the whole of the party have been
drowned.
There was a big row in San Francisco over the
approach of the Ho Hung, a Chinese steamer. It was
thought she would not be allowed to enter the port.
The President acted promptly and decisively. He
issued a proclamation permitting the vessel to enter
on the footing of the most favoured nation.”
The firm of E. Cran and Co. (late Tooth and
Cran) are going to start a sugar refinery at Bundaberg
<Q). at a cost of £lOO,OOO, which speaks well for the
success of their process—that invented by Mr. Tooth.
When the Bundaberg works are started the firm antici-
pate being able to turn out of the two manufactories
fully 100 tons sugar per day.
Several prominent American oarsmen announce
their intention of pulling Hanlau and Laycock on the
Thames, and of competing in the London International
Regatta.
In his opening address as president of the
Social Science Congress of Melbourne, Bishop Moor-
house spoke strongly in favour of a religious system of
education.
Celluloid collars and cuffs are the latest ideas
introduced by the American Novelty Company. They
last for two or three years, requiring but the applica-
tion of a damp sponge to restore a snowy whiteness
never seen in linen collars and cuffs. An American gen-
tleman recently informed a visitor to the Company’s
establishment that the celluloid collar he was
then wearing had not been changed since he left
New York. This invention will give certain M.P’s. a
chance.
A Hanging Eock publican, named Green, the
other day, drew £792 from the bank—it is alleged with
the intention of absconding to Victoria. Four credi-
tors heard of this, followed Green and bailed him up,
one of the number presenting a pistol at him and
ordering him to “ante-up.” Green, yielding to this
gentle persuasion, did pay up, but brought an action for
£2OOO damages for assault and false imprisonment.
There was hard swearing on both sides, but a verdict
for defendants was given.
The Chinese have captured Hawaii. They
already outnumber all the other foreign residents
on the islands, and within the next decade they will
outnumber all the natives. Chinese coin has recently
bought the Assembly and the King, and obtained for a
line of Chinese steam traders a subsidy of £3600 per
year. The object of the Chinese capitalists is to make
Honolulu the centre of the opium traffic. It was
pointed out that the English companies at Hongkong,
who have long had a monopoly in the trade, made one
million a year clear profit.
On the Chinese sugar plantation recently estab-
lished between Cairns and Port Douglas (N.Q.), 100 men
are at work. Ten Chinawomen are expected to join
their lords within six months. A large influx from the
flowery land is expected next year, the new arrivals
bringing with them native seeds, plants, furniture, &c.
Several merchant mandarins in Sydney and Melbourne
are awaiting the result of the first season’s crop before
embarking in other ventures of a similar nature. “If
we mistake not (says the Cooktown Herald), this is
the thin edge of a very thick wedge.”
A week or two since a well-known resident ef
Bourke, who in the excitement of electioneering seems
to have partaken rather too freely of the flowing bowl,
was at the local court mulct in a small penalty. Several
papers, ourselves among the number, quoting from
another journal, stated that the defendant was also
“suspected of larceny.” This latter statement, we
now learn, is totally incorrect, and we have the assurance
of Mr. C. L. Neville, solicitor, of Bourke, that the
defendant and his family have always borne irre-
proachable characters for honesty and integrity.
At Auckland, the other day, a New Hebrides
native, named Joe, murderously assaulted with an axe
the son of his master, Gibson Willcott, who is not
expected to live, also a woman named Mrs. Arnold,
and succeeded in murdering in cold blood a man named
Rees, who was proceeding home about 9 o’clock to
his family, coming upon him unexpectedly. The native,
at the inquest on the murdered man, made a full con-
fession of his crime, and the jury immediately brought
a verdict of wilful murder against him. Prisoner was
about to be tried at the Criminal Court when the mail
left.
In a recent lecture, Dr. Erasmus Wilson
exhibited the photograph of a woman thirty-eight years
old and sft 6in high, whose tresses, when she stood
erect, enveloped her entire form in a golden veil, and
trailed several inches on the ground. The longest
fibres measured 6ft Sin. Thirty inches is a perhaps un-
common length for the hair of females, and 3ft is con-
sidered a very remarkable length. This instance is
exceeded, however, by two American women—one whose
hair measures 7ft 6in, and another, the wife of a druggist
in Philadelphia, whose luxuriant chevelure is so long that,
when seated upon a chair, she can completely cover her-
self with her tresses.
The Double Bay Regatta of 1880 promises to be
the most successful of any yet held in that beautiful
bay. The programme of 15 events,consisting of eight sail-
ing and seven rowing races, will probably attract a largo
number of entries, the prizes offered being very liberal.
The second-class yacht race sail for a prize of £2O, and
the maiden single sculls, senior double sculls, and all
comers in light skiffs, should bring out large fields.
For the latter we hope to see Solomon, Laycock, W.
Trickett, and Macdonald compete. At a full meeting
of the committee, held on Tuesday evening, it was
decided to make the 16ft. dingy race to be sailed by
amateurs, instead of any crews. Entries will close at
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, on Saturday, 23rd instant, at
9.30 p.m.
Trickett telegraphs that Hanlan is confident of
winning.
A collection of orchids was lately sold in Lon-
don, realised £2082 165.; 95 guineas was given for a
single specimen of Saccolabrium Turneri.
The annual excursion of the Glenhead Football
Club to Fern Bay, on Saturday, 2ud October, was a
grand success. Over 350 people were conveyed to the
ground. Dancing was the chief attraction.
Madame Rose Hersee has been engaged by
Messrs. Strakosch and Hess for an English opera sea-
son, to commence in New York next mouth. Madame
Hersee will be associated in this engagement with
Mesdaraes Stella Bonheur, Marie Roze, and Messrs.
Byron, Carleton, Braga, and Perugini.
No European tongue equals the Arabian language
in richness. It is full of imagery and beauty, so that
all love-songs breathe a spirit of tenderness as graceful
as it is impassioned. It has 200 words denoting a
serpent, 500 for a lion, 1000 for a sword, &c. The natives
believe it impossible for an uninspired man to become
master of it.
Another metropolitan paper is copying ua now.
In its “ Pepper and Salt ’’ column, last week. The
Bclletih had five lines about “ The Modem Ajax."
The “Zigzag” man expresses precisely the same idea
in the Echo of Oct. 13 (sixth paragraph), but in doing so
he, as might have been expected of him, uses fifteen
lines instead of five.
When a man launches out largely and energeti-
cally in business, going in for extensive trade and
small jiroflts, ho controls the retail transactions of the
town or city in which he resides. What Kidman has
done in some parts of the city, Mark Isaacs has accom-
plished at the Haymarket, in the grocery line. Excel-
lent lines of goods at the lowest possible figures are the
principles of his business.
Wendell Phillips, the American orator, says the
fact of five millions of Irishmen having emigrated to
America clone, is a living testimony to English misrule.
In Prance, the Government encouraged a love of country.
That was the reason why so few Frenchmen were found
abroad, and when abroad were found with their faces
turned homeward. Prance, with her ninety million
acres of land, had five and a-half million laud owners.
But a few hundred men owned half Ireland, and there
were few of these who were not absentees. Since 1841
England had increased in imputation one-half, Scotland
one-half, and most of the European nations one-half; Ire-
lan dhad decreased one-third. To-day she should have
nearly twelve millions; she has not five. America was
the gainer. These men could not he expected to forget
their native laud.
At the Water Police Court the other day, when
the licensing business was called on, the temperance
justices rounded up as usual to oppose the transfer of
a license, and amongst them was a magisterial fossil
well stricken in years, and particularly deaf withal.
On the case being called on this ancient justice arose
and made a long speech, in the course of which he
made this remarkable assertion: —“ I have come here
with the direct intention of opposing the transfer of
this license, and oppose it I will with might andmain.”
Mr. Gannon, who appeared for the transferee, naturally
objected to this extraordinary proceeding; and upon
this the venerable shallow elected to go into the box.
When sworn he made a rambling statement, but when
cross-examined replied to every question with —“ Ah,
I can’t hear you; what do you say. Dear, dear 1 I
can’t hear a word.” After giving his evidence he took
his seat on the Bench, and on being remonstrated with
by his brother justices, exclaimed—“ Yes, yes! I am
glad you agree with me, gentlemen; I knew you
would 1” Then there was a roar, in which the ancient
justice joined, and in the end the transfer was refused
by a large majority. When the decision was made
known the old gentleman, after having it trumpeted in
his ear, leaned over and said to the solicitor engaged
in the case—“ You see, Mr. Gannon, I didn’t vote.”
Thereupon Frederick rejoined—“l am glad to see that
in tins instance your Worship had so much discretion,"
On this the patriarchal party subsided.
Mr. Alderman Joln Meeks.
One of the candidates announced for West
Sydney is Mr. John Meeks, a gentleman who for
the past year has been representing Brisbane
Ward in the Municipal Council of Sydney. Mr.
Meeks was chosen as an aldermanic representative
at a time when important civic reforms were
urgently demanded, and his actions in the Council
have in every way justified the confidence reposed
in him by the ratepayers. In a quiet way, Mr.
Meeks has valiantly battled for the people’s
interest in the Council, bestowing particular
attention to the system of municipal contracts,
and there is no doubt that in this way he has
saved the citizens some thousands in solid money.
In the Council he has been an inconvenience to
the gas company, securing for the citizens what
had never before been demanded in any dealings
with that rich association. In other directions
also Mr. Meeks as an alderman found room for
the exercise of his abilities, and lie has proved
himself all through to be a man capable and
courageous enough to see to the proper manage
mont of the affairs of the public. Mr. Meeks now
aspires to represent the citizens of West Sydney
in the new Parliament. Having by his energy
and good judgment in the past built up for him-
self an independence, he is free to offer his ser-
vices as a member of Parliament. A poor man
makes a needy politician—as is every day evi-
denced by the manoeuvring of political parties In
Victoria; and there can bo no doubt that we
are more safe with the successful business man,
who has uprightness and sound sense to recommend
him, than with those heaven-born geniuses who
strive by artificial means to build up the greatness
of a country. Mr. Meeks’ political programme is
a liberal one, and the electors will have, wo be-
lieve. an early opportunity of giving their opinion
in regard thereto.
Messrs. Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist's Sale
Booms.
One of the best indications of the growth of Syd-
ney lies in the immense sums invested during the
last few years in land and other property in and
about the suburbs. In the absence of other sound
investments capital has turned its attention to
the growing requirements of the metropolitan
population, and building operations have !Tb©en
carried on to the utmost extent of our capabilities.
Estates have been divided and subdivided, and
having been offered by auction in the most attrac-
tive way on liberal terms, new townships have
sprung up in (quarters which but a few years ago
were unoccupied fields. In this great change the
firm of Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist have taken an
important part, and the advantages of suburban
investments have been from time to time very ably
and successfully demonstrated by them. The firm
have invariably conducted all their large land
and property sales to a highly favourable issue,
the investments—the most important feature—
being numerous, and the practical results being
deemed eminently satisfactory. Our sketch con-
veys some idea of the interior of their land sale
rooms and offices in Pitt-street, opposite to the
General Post Office. The premises were formerly
known as the Caxton Printing Office, and have
boon completely altered and renovated in such
style as to impart to them quite an elegant appear-
ance. The rooms are richly furnished, and
supplied with materials for the proper display of
maps and plans, which latter are usually got up
in an artistic style. The offices of the clerical staff
are to the right and left on entering, and the offices
of the firm are situated at the eastern end of the
building, and sales are conducted by all parties of
this firm as may be deemed most conducive to the
interest of clients.
MESSRS. MILLS, PILE, AND GILCHRIST’S LAND SALE ROOMS, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
M. Gambetta possesses no decoration.
Parnell’s sister was lately married in Paris.
The late Mr. Tom Taylor, as editor of London
Punch, received JEISOO per annum.
Captain Duncan Longden has succeeded Mr.
Nicholl as editor of the Ballarat Star.
We regret to have to announce the death of
Alderman Vescys, the late Mayor of Waterloo.
The Princess Louise, it is stated, has lost the
hearing of one ear through her recent carriage accident.
Mrs. Lindsay, of Quamby Station, one of the
oldest residents of the Western District of Victoria, is
dead.
Jack, the energetic M.L.A., is wearing one of
his arms in a sling. A clean shave is now out of the
question.
P. B. Walker — suaviter in modo—fortiter in re—
at least that’s what his clerks say. This sounds like
poetry, but it’s not; it’s truth.
Mrs. Praed, the authoress of “ An Australian
Heroine,” &e., is the daughter of Murray, prior late
Postmaster-General, Queensland.
Mr. E. A. Proctor and the “ much-travelled
manager” have arrived in New Zealand. Three suc-
cessful lectures were given in Invercargill.
Sir Francis Srqith, ,Governor of Tasmania, and
Lady Smith, were present at the performance of “ Blow
for Blow,” at the Theatre Royal, on Monday night.
Mr. H. C. E. Childers was a Cabinet Minister
for fifteen months in Victoria. Since he retired he
has drawn nearly £20,000 in pensions from that colony.
Mr. Pugh, the respected P.M. of Eockhampton,
is, we are sorry to hear, on his way to Melbourne to
consult the surgeons in regard to a serious optical
affection.
John Landsborough, the squatting pioneer,
after whom the Landsborough River, Queensland, was
named, recently died in New Zealand, where he had
resided for many years.
Cooktown Cooper, M.L.A., has got his seventy
guineas for his ten days’ trip to Rockhampton. He
made his maiden prosecution at Maryborough—the
prisoner was acquitted.
Prosper Lamal, who came out to our Exhibition
in the piano line, has just turned up In Melbourne in
the P. and O. Co. He is coming to Sydney. Madame
is not with him this time.
Mr. H. S. Sadd, the well-known steel-engraver,
and who as an artist on wood has no superior in the
colonies, leaves Sydney next week for Melbourne, in'
which city he formerly resided.
Walsh and Ivory are the gladiators of the
Queensland Legislative Council. They are always at
loggerheads. When the P.M. General stutters at
Walsh all hands shudder. It is rather painful.
Baron Macleay is going to Melbourne about the
time of Ned Kelly’s hanging, as he wishes to secure the
outlaw’s brains. But if the body is delivered to the
relatives, he will scarcely be equal to tackling Mrs.
Skillion.
The larrikin crowd of the Assembly visited the
Queensland Council to hear the German chairman read
prayers. The foreign accent and strange pronunciation
caused roars of laughter outside the bar and a decent
tittle inside.
The initiator of the free-breakfast table in New
Zealand—Mr. Woolcock, ex-M.H.R.—is now acting in
the capacity of ganger over the unemployed. Verily,
“ a man in his time plays many parts,” especially in
the Australian colonies.
The now celebrated German sculptor, Miller,
whose magnificent statue pf “ Prometheus Bound ” has
just been bought for 60,000 marks by the Government
and placed in the Berlin National Gallery, was, when a
poor boy, a cook in a Munich hotel.
Two Queensland M.L.A.’s received testimonials
from their creditors the other day. Both were neatly-
drawn-up writs. One M.L.A has not been solvent for
a long time. The friends o f the other are unwilling to
stump up to save him from insolvency.
The will of the late Mr. Justice Williams has
been proved in the Melbourne Equity Court. The
estate was valued at £5500, so far as Victorian property
was concerned. Probate was granted on the motion of
Mr. Hartley Williams, the son of deceased.
The Adonis of a certain city banking establish-
ment who left rather suddenly for Melbourne some
months ago has now returned to Sydney. After having
rather a varied time of it, he has once more come back
to the parental roof a sadder, but a wiser man.
Jack Flood is getting a howling swell, and is
building up up the firm he is now working for. He has
just returned to Brisbane from the North, and when
John Walsh shuffles off his Parliamentary coil Jack
will be very fit to represent the Cook electorate.
Asssistant-Commissioner Nicholson, it has been
noticed, has only been gazetted Acting Chief Commis-
sioner of Victorian Police. This, it is said, is because
Major Smith, the gallant Minister for Education, has
his eve on the lucrative post just vacated by Captain
Standish.
The brother of Swanwick, M.L.A. , who did the
revolver and bowie-knife business in the Supreme
Court, Brisbane, has written to the papers that Grif-
fiths, Q.C., was under an hallucination, that Rutledge
was ditto, and that the Colonial Secretary’s account
was utterly false.
It was very comical to see Hercules —that is,
Sir Hercules Robinson —perched up on a chair on a
hand trolly at the Semaphore Jetty and being duly
trundled along to the jetty head on the occasion of h s
departure from Adelaide, per John Elder—a spectacle
for man and the gods.
The deceased wife’s sister waltzed into the
Queensland Assembly the other day. They pitched hotly
into the English House of Lords for not allowing her
to be a legal wife everywhere. Palmer said only one
bishop voted last time against the bill. Morehead
was glad that even one bishop had so much good
sense.
Dr. Hewitt, of Lithgow, died rather suddenly
on the 7th inst. Says the local paper:—“He might
have amassed a considerable competence here, but he
never charged poor people—in fact, he drew from his
private purse to furnish his poor patients with delica-
cies and medicines. By his death, scores of his suffer-
ing and hard-working clients will lose their best
friend.”
The Australasian correspondent says that
Mrs. Trevelyan, one of Lady Burdett-Coutts’ sisters,
is by no means opposed to the marriage, which is so
generally ridiculed and condemned. She takes a kindly
view of the matter, feeling that her sister’s has been
“ a lonely splendour," and that her wish for a close
and equal companionship is neither unnatural nor
blameable.
A clothier in George-street advertised “ The
tailor makes the man,” but if he had seen the attire of
a wealthy Bathurst squatter’s son at the Theatre Royal
on Saturday night he would have literally “ eaten his
words." This young blood, who occupied a seat in the
dress circle, appeared in all the glory of a military duck
coat, and wore a white muffler round his neck. Viewed
from the stalls he appeared to be in very undress
costume.
A curious 'discovery was made some time ago
in going over the effects of the late Sir Robert Burdett,
brother of the Baroness Burdett-Coutts. In various
parts of the house was found over £270,000 worth of
bank notes. Most of the “ flimsies” were found pinned
between the leaves of books and slipped in among
bundles of old papers. None of the deceased gentle-
man’s relatives had the slightest previous knowledge
of this novel “ stocking.”
George Walstab, one of the seventy-one dis-
missals from the Department of Lands, Melbourne, has
had a chequeredlcareer. Attendant ®f L’ecole Militaire
in Paris at the time of Louis Napoleon’s coup d’etat, a
cadet in the mounted escort of Victoria, and an officer
in the Bengal Irregular Cavalry, he saw some active
life. George is one of the best press-men around,
having graduated on the Calcutta Englishman, and is an
amusing author. Add to which he is a gentleman, and
full of bonhommit.
John Douglas is a perfect terror to the Queens-
land Assembly. He raises the raw of Ministers every
time he speaks, and they call him all sorts of names in
consequence. _ John is still alive and in contempt, and
until the Ministry apologise for being so rude to him
he intends to comb their hair the wrong way when-
everhecan. John is a very neat thing in small-tooth
combs.
In a certain North Queensland town Mrs.
Grundy has of late been considerably exercised in mind
by the fact that a certain very quiet, popular, well-
bred and eligible member of the legal fraternity either
has married, or is about to marry, a comely housemaid
who has long been the admiration of Northern commer-
cial travellers.
The S. M. Herald says that at the opening of
the Melbourne International the Town Clerk of Mel-
bourne appeared in a wig and gown, “just like a
barrister- at-law." Now, Mr., Fitz Gibbon is a barrister,
and the best authority in Victoria on municipal law.
An old man named M‘Cabe recently died at Old
Men’s Refuge, Napier, N.Z. He was aged 80 years. He
was the son of a soldier in the 65th Regiment, and when
old enough joined the same regiment and fought by his
father’s side at Waterloo. He was afterwards a non-
commissioned officer of the guard over Napoleon at St.
Helena. He came to the colonies fifty years ago, first
settling in Tasmania.
At the Governor’s ball in Melbourne on Tues-
day, sth instant, Miss Halloran, the youngest daughter
of Mr. Henry Halloran, C.M.G., of Ashfield, and a Miss
Saker, from England, were admittedly the belles.
Miss Halloran was most becomingly dressed, and
greatly admired as a representative of our Sydney
beauty.
Meston, M.L.A., wanted a committee to enquire
about rumours concerning the management of the
Queensland Museum. Works Minister told him the
Government had no objection to his sitting on rumours
or hatching a report if he liked so to waste his time.
The accountant of one of our local bank;
establishments waited on a somewhat itnpecn •
M.L.A., a few days ago, and informed him that h u US
overdrawn his account to the tune of £lOO. “Vf p*
know that,” replied the M.P., “ so what’s the nnoeoi-’, 1
of boring me about it P Why not trust me, as Ido Slty
I don’t go to you when I have that amount in U ?
institution, and shout ‘ Mr. Manager, you hold fifin' 11 '
mine!’ Such statements are superfluous either
Good morning.” Wa L
Mr. Elliston, late chief officer of the Assam wk
on the strength of Martin Wiberg’s statement »
arrested and tried, but acquitted in London for th 8
great robbery of gold from the ship named, has retimili
to Victoria, and entered an action for £5OOO datmi
against the Melbourne Daily Telegraph. He foT? es
bringing libel actions against several other papers it
will be remembered that the P. and O. Companv
Mr. Elliston £lOOO by way of compensation for uf 6
wrong done him at their instance.
A fracas took place at the Eoyal Hotel one after
noon last week, in which a cabman, an official i
the Telegraph Department, and a well-known Sydn ° f
“ heavy weight ” figured. The cabman got a
and was locked up, of course, but he revenged himself
by issuing summonses and subpoenas all round. Th
affair cropped up at the Police Court, and was dismissed
or otherwise hushed up. It is now rumoured that th
business has not quite ended, and is likely to com
before the public in a newly-developed form. e
When the old Philip-street gentleman’s teeth
fell out in the tram-car last Thursday, be moumful] v
uttered, as they toppled under the wheels y
Ye rows of pearls that once did
Embedded in a golden dell
I ne’er shall see ye more—farewell!
The genial Sir John, a long time ago, was riding
out to South Head on his old grey charger. The hour was
late, the wind was fresh, the horse was fresh—in fact
everything was fresh. The horse capsized Sir John
The knight soliloquised, as he gazed sadly at the stars'
“ What ingratitude! Upset his own government!
A member of Parliament was found lying drunk
in the street, in Brisbane, the other morning early. g e
was locked up, let out in the morning on bail, and “for.
feited his deposit.” It was neither of the champion
drunkards of the House —it was an entirely new recruit
A certain weekly journal, which shall be name-
less, furnished a person with a saddle and bridle, and
appointed him travelling reporter. They never heard
from him after the first week —or of the horse and
saddle. A deposit is now required from travelling re-
porters furnished with horses —in case they should
“ travel.”
A very pretty costume is worn by Miss Blanche
Stammers at the Theatre Royal in the comedietta
“ Withered Leaves." It is composed of magnificent
claret-coloured satin and Bretonne lace, in alternate
bands, most exquisitely designed, and has a moat
charmingly effective appearance. It may be mentioned
that this dress was the most admired at a fancy dress
ball some time since at Melbourne.
Some people are absurdly thin-skinned. Gresley
Lukin, of the Brisbane Courier, claims £3OOO damages
from the Australian (Queensland “religious” paper),
because the latter said;—“Beyond doubt it would be
less immoral in itself, and less injurious to the public,
if they (the proprietors of the Courier), established a
house of ill-fame and appointed Mr. Gresley Lukin as
its caterer and general manager at a salary of £lOOO per
annum, than to pay him a like sum for making a futile
attempt to subvert Christianity.” “ Religious ” papers
seem to be all tarred with the same brush, and are,
taken all round, a disgrace to civilization.
“ Wiremu King!,” says a recent telegram to an
Auckland paper, “is being borne to Parihaka on a
stretcher, accompanied by the remnant of his tribe, to
end his days there." Only twenty years have elapsed
since this chief was the absorbing topic in the Legis-
lature and the Press. Commissioners waited upon him,
long despatches to the Imperial Government were filled
with his sayings and doings, and an army was sum-
moned to oppose his crusade against the Pakeha: and
now only thirty adherents remain to awaken in the
minds of old colonists’ recollections of the past.
An ex-Civil servant, whose former pursuits were
aquatic, but who has now retired to his seaside ‘ ‘retreat”
near Rockhampton, where he breeds cattle and grows
melons, created no small sensation the other day by
stating with great gusto that he had sent his first draft
of fat stock to “the boiling down.” A mean man, who
resides not far from the admiral’s retreat, calmed the
fears of tallow-speculators by informing them that the
draft consisted of seven head. The admiral’s herd now
consists of three cows and one calf —the latter tied up
to a stickpin front of the door.
One sees strange social records in the Mel-
bourne General Cemetery, as no doubt in other places
of burial (says a Press correspondent). While walking
through this city of the dead, I observed a grave where
a well-known sportsman has buried three wives. I
noticed that the second was younger than the first, and
the third younger than the second ; also that each of
them was “ beloved.” Not far from this tomb I saw a
head-stone, which was erected by a husband and wife to
the memory of their eighteen infant children. The
parents of those numerous babies now repose with
fruitful offspring.
Eutledge, M.L.A., Queensland, is rapidly de-
veloping into a successful barrister. He formerly
preached, and had a congregation. Now he is equally
at home in a case of bad language or murder. Bat his
great speciality is defending prisoners charged with cer-
tain other offences. To hear from Rutledge what the fe-
male ought to be like to induce a man to misbehave
himself, is to hear a description of feminine loveli-
ness which is almost too much for the court, and
then R. quietly tears the prosecution to pieces limb
by limb, and says, “No one of her ugliness could
possibly prove a temptation to the passions of our baser
nature!”
Apropos of the dispute which took place over a
little game of “Nap." at the house of a rich Israelite
in Wynyard Square, it appears that the young gentle-
man who used insulting language is a “ new chum,”
recently out from England. When called on next day
to make the amende honorable, he required considerable
persuasion to induce him to leave his bedroom at
Petty’s. However, he received some rough treatment,
in a truly Christian spirit, from a prominent member
of the “ chosen race," whose aged grandsire, having
heard of these things, is weeping and wailing in sack-
cloth and ashes, exclaiming, “Absolom, my son,
my son !"
The Hon. W. J. Clarke will, it is said, shortly
be knighted. Many a man has been made a baronet for
services for less than his. Mr. Berry, it is stated, also
expects to be offered knighthood. He declares that he
would not accept the honor, but would like to have the
refusal of it. If it were known for certain that he would
decline, the offer would no doubt be made. However, it
is to be hoped that history will not in this instance re-
peat itself—that when the princely Mr. Clarke is
offered titular distinction he will not, as in a recent
instance within our own experience, find somebody that
else is sailing in the same boat, for no other reason
than that Cerberus has to be propitiated.
A clergyman who has recently come out from
England says that the extraordinary spectacle of a
Roman Cardinal sitting in the British House of Lords
will be witnessed before many years. It seems that the
heir apparent to the title and estates of the Petre
peerage is a Roman Catholic priest upon whom the
Pope has recently conferred the title of Monsignore.
The rev. gentleman has already renounced his claim to #
the estates, but of course he cannot dispose of the
title in the same way, and when the present peer dies
the Monsignore will succeed to his seat in the House of
Lords (of course if he should survive him), and beyond
doubt will receive the Cardinal’s hat from the Pope.
Father Petre, of Dapto, N.S.W., belongs to the family
named.
There "are three newspapers at Temora, and
each editor wants to “ boss ” everything. One fellow
goes in heavily for water supply, and another for the
establishment of an hospital, and of course each gets
quite mad unless he gets all the credit that attaches to
the enterprise he writes up. Par exempts, here is what
the hospital man says in his last about the water-man:
“The writer of the words ‘useless hospitals’ in the
contemporary referred to is deserving every sympathy,as
he so often allows ‘ the enemy in his mouth that steals
away his brains ’ as to remove any responsibility or
onus attached to his sayings or doings—probably he
consoles himself with the words of Rabelais, ‘ I drink
no more than a sponge.” Probably we shall have the
water-man saying in his next that the other fellow
* never sponges more than a drink."
MR. JOHN MEEKS, CANDIDATE FOR WEST SYDNEY.
ON THE STUMP!


POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. P- E. Larkin is announced for Monaro.
Major Holborow is actively canvassing Argyle.
Mr. Alderman Hordern is a candidate for South
S% Mr 7 Coonan has been well received at Con-
'lC>Mr. Copeland’s friends have held a meeting at
Al JIr. W. A. Shorter has been requisitioned for
the Bogan.
Mr. Edmund Barton’s candidature for Welling-
ton is of increasing popularity.
Mr D. Buchanan is unsettled about East Syd-
uey, South Sydney, and Mudgee.
Mr J. H. M'Laughlin, of Gannon & M'Laugh-
lin, is’to stand for the Upper Hunter.
Mr. W. H. Bogie delivered a good address to
the South Sydney electors on the Bth.
Mr. W. H. Suttor delivered a straightforward
speech to the electors of Carcoar on the Bth.
A working committee has been formed at Car-
coar for the return of the Hon. E. A. Baker and of Mr.
A. Lynch.
There are four candidates in the field for the
Hume. Mr. Levien, one of their number, recently made
a good speech.
Mr. Boseby is likely to meet with severe oppo-
sition and possibly rejection for Shoalhaven. There is
a demand for some local man with good representative
ability.
A canvasser fot S. E. Lees, calling at a house
in Woolloomooloo for a signature, got the measles in-
stead. He was duly “ carried out ” —a premonition of
the inevitable fate that awaits Samuel himself in the
coming contest.
Mr. E. H. Levien, one of the candidates for
Tam worth, held a most successful meeting at Curra-
bubula on the 9th inst. A vote of confidence in him
was unanimously carried, and so enthusiastic were the
electors that they carried him to the train on their
shoulders.
The Coming Elections.
INTERVIEW WITH MR. S. E. LEEs.
As it was definitely announced a few days ago that Mr.
S. E. Lees would stand for East Sydney, a Bulletin
representative called on him for an “ exposition.
Our reporter found the great man curling his hair.
««(Jood morning, Mr. Lees,” he said ; “ our paper is
going for the survival of the fittest in cam-
paign. We want to ensure your survival.”
“ Thanks,” he replied, “ but I’ve been getting it ot
from The Bulletin for some time.” .
“ It’s the fate of all great men. But to business, Mr.
Lees; you really mean to go into Parliament?
“ Well, I do. Being an alderman I have a foot already
in; my head can easily follow.”
“ Immeasurably so,” remarked our reporter. Now
as to the question of Education ” „
“ Well, I never went in for that. At an early age—
“ You misunderstand me, Mr. Lees. What do you
r6 ” l Well, I say—at least I know the Rule of Three.”
“Oh,” replied our reporter, “ You must understand
the Rule of Thumb.” „ T ~
“ Well,” replied Mr. Lees, pluming himself, I really
—at any rate I flatter myself” ~ .
“Good," interjected our reporter, that s one to
yon. Now with respect to the tax ”
“ Tax on beer—l’m for it.”
“ No, no ; the tax on land; the Land Tax.
“ What 1” replied Mr. Lees with astonishment, is
that coming up ? Mr. Abigail has said nothing
about it; and he was down town the other day, too.
“On what peg does Abigail hang his hat ? there-
upon enquired our reporter. .... , . ,
“On my sole, I don’t know,” frantically exclaimed
He ought to stick to his last,” hinted our reporter.
« it depends on what’s uppermost,” accidentally re-
plied Mr. Lees. . ... . ~
“ Now, to return. There’s the question of interest,
observed the reporter. “ Now how do you stand on
I go for 20 per cent.—Coffoe Palace, you
“ No, my dear fellow; I mean the public estate. _ m
“ Oh, I don’t take any interest in that. The fact is,
—And here Mr. Lees significantly tapped his forehead
with his fingers. , , ~ . . +
“ Mum! ” was the word our reporter thought best to
use just then; and he used it. Mr. Lees was next asked
what was his platform. .
“Well, the fact is, we have no platform in the
Debating Society—and I have been
“ Beg your pardon, Mr. Lees; I did not come to inter-
view yon on your past political career. I want to know
your platform—your principles—for the future, bay»
for instance, Federation.” w
“Decidedly,” replied the candidate. Cook Ward
and Phillip Ward ought to be one. I told M Elhone so
th “ Yes/"’ repiied the reporter, “ that’s good; another
to you. Now we’re getting at it. Whom do you sup-
P °“ When I got married, sir,” replied Mr. Lees, with
much hauteur, “ I undertook to support——
“ Beg pardon, again, Mr. Bees. lam not refemn 0 to
domestic legislation.” _
“Oh, I see. Well, I’d support Parkes or Parnell—
whoever’s in. Pact is, I haven’t any principles just yet;
what’s more, I don’t want any. What s there to go upon ?
My opinion is Macquarie Ward wants better drainage,
and I say cabs must walk over the crossings. As to
the laud question, I’d tax all unoccupied Government
land in my Ward; and as to our rolling stock, I d go
f °“ls W Withers with yon on these points?” enquired
Tlmtllfan’t say; but Abigail is ready to stake his
awl on them. Hear him speak. He waxes warm on
them sometimes." ... . A „
“Thenthose are your principles, enquired our re-
' they,” replied Mr. Lees, “ and a good many
more. But that’s sad news I got the other day.
“No fear; what’s that ?’’ eagerly asked the reporter.
“ I’ve had tea canvassers out, and half on em is down
with the measles. It’s a fact. Here s a bill just in by
this moiming’s post' Samuel E. Lees, debtor to .
To 500 voters, *d. per head, £1 Os. lOd. Eifteengluco-
sens, at 3d. per glass, 3s. 9d. Caught at Mao-
Praggarty’s; down ten days, say 305.; total, £-10s.
N.B.—All the electors are for you. Keep your hair
parted in front, and you can’t be licked. Now that s
a sample of the letters from my committee.
“ Your committee ?” remarked our reporter.
“Yes, the committee I appointed, re P he * Samuel.
“Fact is, I was waiting some time for tne popu-
lace to call me out, and as I thought they might leave
it till it was too late, I invited myself, and acquiesced,
° f “Taee!'l see,” rejoined the reporter. “ para-
graph, I remember, said the gentleman who headed the
deputation had known yon from an infant, and that but
for him you would not have decided to come out.
“ Just so,” remarked Mr. Lees.
And here our reporter terminated the interview:
“ I am thankful for this free and full sketch of your
policy, Mr. Lees. Worthy manfor a metropolitan con-
stituency ! yirat Geebungoma! Adieu! adieu. Good-
bye ! Ta-ta!”
A company has been formed to work a mining
tract (42,000 acres) near Santa IV, in New Mexico. The
company, which was to have its machinery rei *
work oh Ist of October, has a capital of ten million
dollars I
Nothing more forcibly demonstrates our ad-
vancement to old world notions than the fact tha
under a sun which would cook bacon we clothe our
policemen in garments which would be nice and warm
in Kerguelen’s Land or Spitsbergen.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Several splendid foals have been got by Musket
in Auckland.
Harry Payten, of the Gonlburn Pacing Club,
is again in the field with a liberal programme.
Push and William Trickett row over the cham-
pion course, Parramatta, in five weeks’ time for £2OO
a-side.
The Dunedin Bicycle Club had the first run of
the season a couple of weeks ago. It was a great
success.
The Auckland (N.Z.) Rowing Club’s annual
balance-sheet showed that the club is in a satisfactory
financial position.
A salmon weighing G4lb. was lately caught in
the Tay, and was sold for 3s per lb., making a total ot
£9 125., or three times the price of a sheep.
There is a good deal of betting on the Canter-
bury Race Meeting in N.Z., to he held in November.
Betrayer is still first favorite for the big handicap.
The Middle Park Stud Company at Christchurch
(N.Z.) are charging twenty guineas for King of Clubs
services. Only thoroughbred mares will be served.
At Hull, Bonnor and Jarvis threw a cricket-
ball for “ a fiver ’’ aside, the former giving the latter
five yards. The throws were Bonnor, 122 yds. -ft.;
Jarvis, 120 yds.
At the second day’s races ot the South Geraldine
Club, N.Z., the Cup of 100 sovs, 2-} miles, was won by
W. C. Webb’s Virginia Water; H. P. Lance s Marie
Antoinette second.
Stockdale, Grandmaster, Viscount, Othello,
Fenian, Speculation, Norman, Clarendon, Newbold
are the subscribing sires for the Maryborough (Q.) Sires
Produce Stakes ot 1881.
Some big athletic events are to be contested at
the new Melbourne Hippodrome. Arbours go-as-
you-please for a 50-guinea cup and £5O added, takes
place on the Ist, 2nd, and 3rd prox.
At the Melbourne Bicycle Club’s meeting, Hazle-
ton (15 yds start) won the mile handicap in 3m. 20is.
The distance was too short to enable the men to warm
to their work, and the pace at some points was very
slow, especially against the wind.
Mr. W. C. Freeman has been presented by
several admirers with a champion belt as a souvenir of
his victory over Mr. Joe Thompson. The trophy, which
is extremely handsome, is of the very best tin, properly
gilt, and bears a suitable inscription.
The brothers M‘Donald have issued a challenge
to William Trickett and Solomon, but nothing is likely
to come out of it. Then Neil M’Donald wants to row
Solomon, the latter carrying 451bs—which shows that
he wants nothing short of a certainty.
In the cricket match, last Saturday, Stanmore
C.C. v. Students and ex-Stndents of Newington College,
the Club won by 6 wickets and 4 runs. Coates played a
good innings for 15 for the College, and F- H. Searl put
together 17 for the other side in good style.
The programme for the Wellington, N. Z. , annual
races, to be held on February 3 and 4.1881, shows that
over £llOO will be given in stakes. The principal events
are-the Wellington Cup, of 400 sovs, two miles ; and
thp E.C. Handicap, of 200 sovs, one mile and three-
quarters.
Mr H N. Abbott, of the United Service Hotel,
Auckland (N.Z.), had his £5,000 sweep on the Mel-
bourne Cup satisfactorily drawn about ten days ago.
He now has another large one open on the Auckland
Meeting, which takes place on Boxing Day, and the Ist
and 2nd of January.
A certain horsey man had, more or less, a ton of
money on a horse which ran second in a rape at Wagga.
The great Leviathan told him to wait till the Wan-
dering Jew” got alongside of it. The horsey man
remarked, “If I win the Melbourne Cup there will be
a lot of ‘ Wandering Jews.’ ’’
Among the recent Melbourne insolvencies, we
notice that of Ebenezer Hunter Hicken, “commission
agent.” Causes of insolvency—Having lost £lOOO over
a lawsuit, heavy legal expenses, and insufficient earn-
ings to maintain himself and family. Liabilities, £547
19^ 6d; assets, £1; deficiency, £54619s od. Mr. Jacomb,
assignee.
Subjoined are the results of the Adelaide Park
races, last Saturday:—Hurdles : Encounter 1, Sultan -,
Jack’s the Lad 3. Handicap : Silverthread 1, Aurora 2,
Mountaineer 3. Steeplechase: Momalong 1, Abdallah -,
Lightfoot 3. Plying Handicap : Sunflower 1, Amphi-
trite 2, Silverthread 3. Corinthian Cup; Charlie 1,
Barney 2.
Unless Pearce can altogether justify what ap-
pears to be his deliberate fouling of Trickett at the
Rocky Mouth Regatta, it is to be hoped that the Bal-
main regatta committee will decline to receive his
entry. One thing is certain —that the foul referred to
was the result either of deliberate malice or of the most
unpardonable recklessness.
Results of the Temuka races, a small town in
N Z., in which the Australian Lone Hand “ cleared the
board:’’-Hurdle Handicap, 2 miles: Lone Hand 1,
Robin Hood 2. Maiden Plate, Umile : Huntingdon 1,
Zebra 2. Temuka Cup, 2 miles: Thompson s Lone
Hand 1, Clarence 2. Publicans’ Purse, li mile: Thomp-
sou’s XiOne Hand 1, Tom Tit 2.
Says a Christchurch (N.Z.) paper “ From a
case of polished kauri, now on view m the shop of Mr.
Jewell, cabinetmaker, Hereford-street, looks forth the
head of the gallant old racehorse, Templeton. The
case also contains two of the hoofs which have so often
brought Bob Ray to the front. The work of the taxi-
dermist has been well done.”
A N.Z. paper, referring to the English cable-
gram that Hanlan, the celebrated Canadian sculler, had
Irrived in England, and “gone to Putney, remarked:
—“ If this remarkable telegram is to be taken in its
literal sense it will be seen that his chance of winning
the great match between himself and Edward Trickett,
for the championship of the world, is remote in the
extreme.”
Hosmer, of Boston, U.S., who is to row Lay-
cock on 2nd November, towards the end of the season
(1877) rowed at the regatta in Canada, being con-
sidered one of the “ten best oarsmen in the conti-
nent” (of America) that competed on the occasion.
The race was four miles, for lOOOdol., and was won by
Hanlan, with Wallace Ross second, and Hosmer third.
I notice, also, that he entered in the last race (the Hop
Bitters Co’s prize), but did not start.
The annual meeting of the New South Wales
Cricket Association was held last week at Tattersall s
Hotel A good attendance of members and delegates
were present. Mr. M. H. Stephen occupied the chair.
The hon. secretary (Mr. J. M. Gibson) read the report,
of which the following is an extractlt is with a
feeling of the deepest pain that your committee refer
to the loss which the association has sustained by the
death of its respected and honoured president, the late
Mr Richard Driver. Mr. Driver’s name has been asso-
ciated with the cricket of this colony since its infancy,
as one of its earliest representatives in the field, as the
honorary secretary, and subsequently the president ( Ot
the association, and as a trustee of the new ground
Another sate him in the chair
That he so long had occupied.
Absent! —yet he still u-as there
In our minds, tho’ he had died !
In our minds, that genial face.
Full of truth and bonhommie.
Still shone in the wonted place—
Seeming still to smilingly
Hover in the gas-lit air
By the old familiar chair.
The final heats for the Sheffield Handicap were
run off on the Association Ground, last Saturday, before
a rather small assemblage. The race of the day was
the third heat, in which an exciting finish took place
between Aplitt and Studdert, the former breasting the
tape first. The prizes were £35, £lO, and £5. The fol-
lowing were the winners of the divisions in the second
heat:—l, W. H. Dunn: 2, R. Eagles; 3, John Aplitt;
4 J. A. Griffiths; 5, Thompson; 6, G. Hummerton;
?! G. Stettler; 8, E. C. Prendergast. Third heate:—
First division: Prendergast, 1; Stettler, 2: Aplitt, g.
Second division: Griffiths, Is Dunn, 2; Hummerton, J.
Third division; Eagles, 1; Thompson. 2. Final heat:
Prendergast,!; Griffiths, 2; Eagles, 3. Time, 14/-10
seconds. The settling took place at Punch s on Mon-
day evening.
A Tattersall’s Club has been formed in Auck-
land. The following nominations have been received
for the Dunedin Cup:—Maligner, Victoria, Sylvana,
Adamant, King Quail, Hornby, Fishhook, Maritana,
The Governor, Mischief. Le Loup, Betrayer, Lure,
Luna, Laertes, Sinking Fund, Volunteer, Eandwick,
Kosciusko, Norseman, Miss Domett, Amy,_ Libeller,
Piscatorious, Grand Duchess, Longlands, Sir Garnet,
Sir Modred, Hilarious, Lady Emma, Foul Play, Nata-
tor. Grip, On Dit, Marie Antoinette, Concrete, Virginia
Water, and Leveller. The weights will appear on
November 20.
The Sydney Banks Bowing Club are prevented
from entering upon active operations from inability to
obtain a site for their shed. Government owns all
suitable and available water frontage; and although
there is a mile of such frontage idle, from the Circular
Quay round to Woolloomooloo Bay, the authorities re-
fuse to grant a few feet for a boat-shed for the club.
The land in question is said to be set apart for public
recreation, but room is denied to a large section of our
youth for the cultivation of a sport against which
nothing can be said, and which Port Jackson is supposed
especially to favour. This is the land of Edward
Trickett 1
The Printers’ second annual regatta and picnic
last Saturday was a great success, though several of
the races had to be postponed owing to the bad weather
which prevailed during the latter part of the day. The
following are the results of the races so far as they
were contested: —Apprentices' Race (pair-oared).—
Ireland and Bremner, 1; Read and Glover, 2- Double
Sculling Race, in light skiffs. A walk-over for Bourke
and Blue. Pair Oared Race, in club skiffs.—Fair-
weather and Bell, 1; Hagan and Phillips, 2; Kelly and
Knight, 3. Five crews started. Four Oared Race, in
best and best boats.—Trodel and Co.’s crew, 1; Gibbs,
Shallard, and Co., 2. The first-named crew, who rowed
with sliding-seats, won easily. Double-sculling Race,
in club skiffs.—Fairweather and Bell, 1; Dummg and
Degotardi, 2; Daley and Pacey, 3. A very good race.
All-comers’ Race, in light skiffs.—Duming, X; Dego-
tardi, 2; Bourke, 3. Farrell also started, but he col-
lided with Bourke rounding the boat, and lost his
chance.
The champion sculling race at Eocky Mouth
regatta was won by Rush, W. Trickett second, and
M’Donald third. About 11.30 the men were in their
respective positions. M'Donald was in No. I’.position,
Rush 2, Pearce 3, and Trickett 4. At the fall of the
starter’s flag Trickett went ahead “ like an arrow.”
Rush missed his first stroke. The lot had not gone
many yards—say 100, when Pearce had a look to see
where Trickett was, and immediately put on a terrific
spurt. Unfortunately, as the sequel showed, brute
force allowed him to gain on Trickett, and when abreast
of the latter, he pulled hard, accidentally, he says,
with his left hand,bringing the nose of his boat in a line
with Trickett’s. Then he pushed hard on to his leader,
tearing away Trickett’s yoke line, shoving the rudder
hard over, and finally landing his boat on to Trickett s
lap, and cutting his thigh. The pair were locked
together for a second, when Trickett, looking con-
temptuously at Pearce, lifted the boat, flung it away
from him, turned round to see where Rush had got to,
and then pushed gamely on to try and lessen the gap.
Then Pearce put on another spurt, and hugged him
closely, but apparently seeing that Trickett had no
chance?,pushed straight for the shore home, taking no
further interest in the race. Pearce declares that the
foul was a pure accident.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER II—Continued.
Sebastian could not understand how it was that,
though he saw Adrienne repeatedly, and alone,
though she was amiable, cordial, pleasant, yet he
could never get that question asked. Adrienne’s
behaviour puzzled him. He could have sworn that
once she loved him. When he was with her,
Myles Heywood’s handsome olive-hued face, with
its scornful lips and defiant eyes, seemed always
to be hovering there between her and him. And
yet, on the one occasion on which he had seen them
together, Myles had looked and behaved as if he
were as far as possible from being anything like a
favoured lover, thought Sebastian, with an odd
sensation of jealousy and pain. No ;it was only
opportunity for which he waited, an opportunity
which seemed as if it would never come. Cer-
tainly it had not been there that evening. He
walked home lost in profound speculations, think-
ing of Adrienne’s lifted head, and flashing eyes,
and of how Myles Heywood had been “ very stiff
indeed ” with poor old Wilson that morning.
CHAPTER 111.
Kannst dudes Herzens Flammentried nicht diimpfen,
So fode, Tugend, dieses Opfer nicht.'*
Towards 8 o’clock on the following evening
Mary Heywood and Edmund were the only occu-
pants of the kitchen. The lad was somewhat
better and less feverish, and Myles had carried
him downstairs and laid him upon his old resting-
place, the chintz-covered sofa, under the window.
There he lay, with a shawl thrown across him ;
his thin face wasted to sharpness—a waxen pallor
on his cheeks and lips ; dark rings under his great
bright eyes. His almost transparent hands were
stretched out upon the couch before him, and his
unread book lay open across his knees. Mary had
made things as cheerful as she could, so as not to
let Edmund know how bitterly they were pinched
in order to give him the things he needed. True,
the fire was smaller than their kitchen fires were
wont to be; and behind the cupboard-doors there
was not very much to bring forth for supper ; but
the place was exquisitely clean and tidy, and so
was the girl herself, in her faded gown, and with
her pale pathetic face. ...
‘Mary,’ said Edmund, breaking a _ silence,
‘ does Miss Blisset never come here now ?’
‘ Well, it’s a good while, like, since hoo were
here ; likely hoo’s had summut to do as has kept
her away,’ said Mary, as confidently as she could.
* I canno’ think why hoo ne’er comes. I could
like to see her Whore s Myles to-
n6 ‘ Gone to the reading-room, he said. I’m glad
he does go there. Some o’ these chaps is hanging
about the livelong day, fair as if they didn t know
what to do with theirsels. I reckon some on em
will do summat as they shouldn’t, before long.
‘ Has Harry Ashworth been here lately i pur-
sued Edmund, his thoughts turning towards his
friends, now that he felt himself somewhat more
free from pain and weariness.
1 Ay—he’s been here more than once, replied
Mary, and her cheeks flushed, and she gave a
great jump, as a knock at that very moment re-
sounded through the house. The coincidence was
too remarkable. ‘
In a moment, however, she realized that tne
knock was at the front, not the back, door ; there-
fore, it could not be Harry Ashworth who
knocked; and secondly, it was not at all like his
knock when he did come. Wondering who the
visitor could be, and casting a critical glance
around, to see if the kitchen were as neat as it
should be, she stepped out through the passage,
and went through the ceremony of unlocking and
opening the door. . ,
Outside, it was dark. Coming from the light
of the kitchen she could not see who was there,
but a voice, which she ha,d already heard once,
and thought pleasant, inquired;
‘ Does Myles Heywood live here?'
I* Ay, lie does ; but he’s out.’
‘On is he ? I’m sorry. I felt sure he would be
in in tiie evening.’
The visitor still lingered on the doorstep, and
inquired again: ,
‘ Do you know how long he will be r
Mary’s sense of hospitality was stronger than
even her dread of Myles’s displeasure.
‘ Won’t you step in a and see it he
comes? It’s Mr. Mallory, isn’t it? ’ (
‘Yes. I did want to see him particularly.
* ’Appen, if you were to sit you down a bit, he
might coom back soon,’ suggested Mary, fervently
trusting that he would do nothing of the kind;
and that Mr. Mallory would get tired ot waiting,
as she knew Myles himself did.
With a word of thanks Mr. Mallory accepted
the invitation, and entered the house. A proper
attention to established etiquette would have led
Mary to usher him into the highly coloured
parlour, but the recollection that there was no fire
there, and that some of the furniture was wanting,
overcame conventional rules, and he was taken
forward into the kitchen.
‘ I hope I am not intruding,’ he began, so courte-
ously that all Mary’s innate politeness was roused
to action, and his welcome was more effusive than
it might otherwise have been.
* Eh, dear no! Please take a seat!’ said Mary
pulling up her own rocking-chair. ‘Me and Ed-
mund was quite alone, and not doin’ nowt at all,
except talk a bit. Ned, here’s Mr. Mallory.
You’ve ne’er seen him afore.’
* I fear you are a great invalid.’
*I am none so strong,’ said Edmund. ‘ I’ve
been ill, but now I’m better.’
“ I suppose you are Myles Heywood’s brother
and sister ?’ continued Sebastian.
* Ay,’ said the others, and they smiled—that
smile of mingled pride and affection which speaks
well for the absent one, and which Sebastian
noted directly.
He took a chair by Edmund’s sofa, and turmng
to Mary said:
* I suppose you know your brother has had his
name and yours taken off my books ?’
1 Ay,’ responded Mary, coloring with some em-
barrassment, while Edmund looked rather anxi-
ously from one to the other, this being the first he
had heard of the circumstance.
‘ Was it your wish, too, to leave my employment
suddenly ?’ he asked slowly.
‘ I didn’t know—Myles did it. He thought it
would be for the best, I suppose, sir,’ stammered
the girl.
‘ But you,’ he persisted gently — have you such,
an intense objection to receiving a little assistance
in such a time of distress, from a —you don’t say
master here, I notice—from an employer whom
you have served so long and so well as 1 hear you
have done ? I should not have thought so. You
know it is not an ordinary case. It is not as if
you or I, or any of us here, could have prevented
it. There can be no shame ’
‘ 1 never thought there was,’ said Mary, won-
dering in her distress what could be the grudge
that Myles had against such a master as this. I
fair cried wi’ joy when I heard what you was going
to do ; but when Myles came in and told me ’
‘ But you do not mean that he has forbidden
you —that he prevents —it is ’
‘No ! ’ said Mary, suddenly. ‘ Our Myles is not
one of that sort, I can tell you, Mr. Mallory. Ho
won’t take a penny himself —why, I don’t know.
And I saw as it would go near to break his heart
to see me and yon lad eating another man’s bread,
and him standing by idle. But he said to_ me,
“ Thou’ll do what thou’s a mind to, Molly; it’s a
great distress, and we m—mun be g—great to
meet it.” Oh! it were same as if he’d said,
“ There’s nowt for’t but to cut off my right hand ;
eive me th’ chopper, and lot me do it! ” —That it
were! ’
She sobbed vehemently once or twice, and
Sebastian read the passionate love and devotion
she felt for that brother, whom, he began to think,
he never could conquer.
‘Ah! that is more like him!’ he said warmly.
‘ I thought I was mistaken. And will nothing
persuade you to accept this help ? It is such a
small thing to refuse ; and I do not think it right
in you to refuse it. You must think of this
brother of yours. He cannot stand the hardships
of this time as Myles, and even you, can ; and ’’
‘ You are very good—reet-dqwn kind, you are!
said Mary, looking at him with gratitude. ‘ I’ll
say this. We’ll hold out as long as we can. Wo
mun do that, if we want to think well of ourselves.
But I’ll come to you when it gets too much.
You’re reet: I can’t see nowt to be ashamed of in
it.”
‘ You promise ? ’
‘ Ay, I promise.’ , ~ ~
‘ That is well. Now, if your brother would
come in, I could say what I have to say to him,
Mary lifted her head. She heard footsteps along
the flags at the back, and the tune being whistled
which no one but Myles ever did whistle. She
started forward as the back-door was opened, and
exclaimed:
‘ Here’s Myles ; he’s coming now.
‘ Ah, I’m glad of that,’ said Sebastian, though
he was’fully conscious of Mary’s discomfited looks.
‘ Now I can speak to him myself.’
The back door was closed again; the quick steps
grew leisurely; presently the kitchen-door also
was opened, and the voice of Myles was heard,
saying, as he entered:
‘ I say, Molly, thou must ’
He came in, and looked round with a smile,
which flashed out of his face as he saw who was
there. His first impulse was to ask fiercely,
‘ What brings you to my house ?’ but Myles had
very strongly developed the proverbial Lancashire
sense of hospitality, and accordingly he suppressed
his question, and remained silent, until Sebastian
offered him his hand, saying courteously :
‘ I hope you will not think I am intruding I
particularly wished to see you, and your sister
was so kind as to ask me to wait a few minutes, in
the hope that you would return.’
Sebastian had spoken just in time. Myles was
assailed on the side of hospitality, politeness to a
guest, and other similar feelings. He realized
quickly that Sebastian had not acted as most
masters would have done—sent for him to come
and see him —but had come himself to seek him
out, and now apologising for intruding in the most
handsome and ample manner. There was nothing
there that even his sore heart could construe into a
slight. Moreover, the man was there, under his
roof —had been invited there ; if Molly might have
been wiser, the thing was done, and he must act
accordingly. He could not look cordial —the sense
of the advantages which the other had over him
was too heavily and oppressively present for that
—but he could be civil, he could speak words
something like welcome. He could even, under
the circumstances, accept the hand which Mallory
held out —or rather, circumstances did not allow
him to refuse. Accordingly, he took the hand,
standing very erect, and looking very proud and
solemn, while Mary knitted more quickly as she
observed, from her seat in the back-ground, how
each man looked straight and steadily into the
other’s eyes.
(TO BE CONTINUED).


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAYID JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer -wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAYID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest.'
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours. Well ■
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s 6d
per suit.
JJAYID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest shape; ause-\
ful and durable suit f 35s per
for business and ordi- j suit,
nary wear. )
JJAYID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Iln light Homespuns and!
thin Cheviots and Ban- 42s per
nockburns. for Spring ’ Suit,
and Summer wear.
JJAYID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
(In Choice Oriental )
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures. )
JJAYID
Orient
Sac Suits
JJAYID
Orient
Walking Suits,
JJAYID
Orient
Serg Suits.
JJAYID
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen's
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overeoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
JONES AND COMPANY'S
("Specially Light andh
Durable, the materials ]
having been well )■
shrunk before being
made up. J
63s per
suit.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
''ln Superior Oriental')
| Tweeds, cut in the
latest style, and > ■.
finished the same as I er
h ordered clothing. J
68s 6d
JONES AND COMPANY’S
("Beautifully light in'
3 Texture, permanent in I 38s 6d
j colour and very dur- ( per suit
v. able in wear.
JONES AND COMPANY'S
fSpecial attention is in-")
Ivited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and !> Orient
most perfect in style I Clothing,
and flnsh procurable |
in the colony. J
("In Superior Tasmanian'
3 Flannel, thoroughly I .
1 shrunk. > 183 ° a
("China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
I Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
I Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
-J All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each,
j Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
("In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
In Black Merino, 30s.
Cln Super Sergerette, 555.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
~ „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Maiulla, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
(■ In Superior, all Wool")
-J Tambary Tweed, well >• 30s each
(. finished. )
"A Special Dress Over-")
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- >■
fully tight, and agree- ]
k. able to wear. J
55s
JONES AND COMPANY.
JJOY’S
AND YOUTH’S
CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to theu EXCELLENT STOCK of BOY’S and YOUTH’S
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys”
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suite.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
In neat fashionable
Tweeds, neatly cut I
and well made, and)
finished.
7s 6d, 8s
Bd, 12s 6d,
13s 6d, 15s
6d, 17s 6d,
19s 6d per
suit.
("In new shapes, very") 12s 6d to
•< prettily trimmed, and > 19s 6d per
C. thoroughly well-made. 3 suit.
"In fancy and plain
I Drills, trimmed in
I new and effective
styles.
For dress wear, extra
finished, superior
material, and excel-
lent shape.
In superior Navy Serges
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
5s lid, 7s
6d, 9s 6d
per suit.
20s to 27s
6d per
suit.
24s Cd to
27s 6d per
suit.
f"ln light and dark mix-')
tures, cut in fashion- |
able styles, well !►
trimmed and strongly |
L made. J
21s 6d to
to 23s 6d
per suit.
Tn fine durable Esta-i
mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
adapted for school and [ 6d,
. general wear. ]
For dress wear
trimmed and made in
a superior manner.
28a to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES :
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
'THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
or Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
now displaying. The importations
’ comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
, ments, &c.
('THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
j lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
| Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
„ every size.
fTHOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
J signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in*
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and,
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
_ other fabrics, &o.
(THOMPSON and GILES’WASH-
ING FABRICS.—Our range ofi
plain and printed Washing Dress*
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs '
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
■< ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the’
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to B|d; French Percales, from 9|d
to 14d; French Sateen, from 9Jd>
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
„ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
(THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to,.
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk Ss*
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s?
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at'
_ all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
a
Tj
ACE CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
Chemists and Druggists
EMSTEONG’S (CAMOMILE) BILIOTr*
- AND LIVER, PILLS Stand unrivaUed o.
General FAMILY APERIENT MEDICINE f a
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick headache, pains
the head and chest, habitual coastipatin
heartburn, giddiness, wind spasms, and diz?’
ness of the eyes. They promote a healthy acH« ’
of the stomach and bowels. They ca J?J
neither griping nor sickness, and are confident)
recommended. Boxes, Is, 2s, and 4s 6d.
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM
An elegant preparation, for all affections of
the pulmonary organs. This is the best know!
preventive for that fatal disease CROUP ns
well as the most successful remedy for cougha
colds, bronchitis, whooping cough, the hack
ing cough of consumption, hoarseness, tickling
in the throat, and asthma. Is 6d, 2s 6d, and 4
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INTERNAL PILES
"Is recognised by medical men as a triumph
in Empirical Medicine,” being the only known
CURE “for this hitherto intractable disease
relief from PAIN, and arrest of HEMMOE-
HAGE.” Can always he RELIED upon in
from TWENTY-FOUR to FORTY-EIGHT
HOURS. 4s 6d and 10s. 1
N.B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of
PARAGON PILE OINTMENT should be com-
hined with the remedy. Price, 2s.
E. B. A E M S T E 0 N G,
Chemist and Apothecary,
466, George Street, Sydney,
(Opposite Market.)
AKE NO MOEE PILLS
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any[of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
«P Remember this, and always keep a box of this
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY,
45 and 47 George-street.
JJY EOTAL LETTEES PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a remedy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is gnaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTEAL PHAEMACY,
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMIN GH AM, ’ Chemist.
H Y S I C.
F. W. BOYNE,
Has commenced to Practice. Specialties—Chronic Gout,
Chronic Rheumatism, Malignant Diarrhoea, Files,
Ulcers, Scalds, &c. Hours of Consultation—lo to lA
and 2to 4. Attend poor rom to 10 a.m., free.
Fee for one week’s attendance. Medicines included.
One Guinea in advance.
Elizabeth-stceet, near Market-street.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J.
656 GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
B. Y O U D A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER.
This New and Commodious Establishment is now in full
operation, and customers have an opportunity of
purchasing from a well-bought stock of Choice, Cheap,
and Useful FANCY and HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY,
Corsets, and Frillings.
J. B. Y O U D A L E,
NEW MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
E
ASHIONABLE SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOR GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT
FITTING SHOP,
PITT .STREET
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT I 1 1
J. L. HORDERN.
T
HE
CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK
LATE 681 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIHE
BEST AND LARGEST
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
STOCK
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
J.
at
TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) georgb street.
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
CSS* All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
j VICAKS & CO.
WOOLLEN MANUFACTURERS. ’
SYOATBY.
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
„ Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES AND LINDSAY.
E CONOMY IS WEALTH!
WHAT IS SAVED IS EARNED.
THE STANDARD AMERICAN
SHIRT FACTORY
late of 100 King-street,
has removed to the more spacious and commodious
premises on
WYNYARD-STREET,
Comer of Wynyard-lane,
and
will hereafter be known as
THE STANDARD AMERICAN SHIRT
and
CLOTHING FACTORY,
where
the Finest and Best Fitting
WHITE,
CRIMEAN,
and
. REGATTA SHIRTS,
are made of the best material, and will be sold cheaper
than at any other establishment,
in any quantity to suit.
Gent.’s Business and Dress Suits of the finest West
of England cloths and Tweeds mode to measure, in the
latest English and American styles, at 40 per cent, less
than can be had elsewhere.
A large assortment of material to SELECT from.
A Perfect fit or no charge.
Come and See—then judge for Yourselves.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCEWTIH ECONOMY.
JgjXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d„ 16s. 6d., 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the indiyidual
taste.
ALL COATS PITTED before FINISHED.
DON’T FOEGET
to calll at
THE NEW SHOP.
T, P. SI VI EE,
77 OXFOED-ST.
(Next door to Messrs,
Burney & Evans).
The New
GENTLEMEN’S OUT-
FITTING
ESTABLISHMENT.
Shirts and Collars
Scarves and Ties
Hats and Caps
Studs, Pins, &c
Hosiery, Umbrellas, &c.
A large assortment
of
NEW AND CHOICE
GOODS
at
LOW PEIOES.
Ladies will be much interested
WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ’’ of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for 8*d PER
PAIR; np-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).


Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Harrietts, late ch<s£ de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne. .. . , , ~ _
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners. _
The spaoions rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment. . . ~
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880. _____
COMPAGNONI PALACE CAPE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at m
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
c.
w. E O B E E T S,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
fJIHE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2,
158 George-street, and IS New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged
Gentlemen’s Dining Roems ... 50 x 27 x 110 x 27feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room. &c) f * 27 feet
Coffee Room •••27 x S' feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all leading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, ?rc., &c. . ,
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry-
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled u l m
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meeting
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied with hampers
to order en the shortest notice and on most reasonable
terms.
USTEALIAN WINE.—CAEMICHAEL S
_ PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. fid. doz.; quarts, 1 ana
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
\ P A C
f\ That the Old Liverpool Arms,
(comer of Pitt and King Streets),
is the Best House to get a Glass of Good Drink.
Also, the Cheapest House for Bottled Stuns.
Proprietor, DAVID H. WARBY.
T.
JOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR ,
A. S. N. Co.'s Wharf. Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
RED WINES
No. 2 „ „ 16
Vin Ordinaire
WHITE WINES
Muscat
No. 1 Coolalta 21 0
No. 2 ~ 16 0
Vin Ordinaire 12 0
THE ISLAY BLEND WHISKY, Distilled by
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of Glasgow and Islay, is
fast becoming a favourite in nearly aU the British
colonies. For purity, strength and flavour it cannot be
excelled, and the analytical report certifies to its being
“ A very fine spirit with that delicate bouquet charac-
teristic of the finest Scotch whiskies only j it is
thoroughly matured, and can be recommended as a
most wholesome and pleasant whisky.
Agent for New South Wales and
IMPBOVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
jt a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits. - ...
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
bas the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a, proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, «b.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNTARD-LANB* SYDNEY.
Hotels, &o.
OAC H AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAGONG,
Within three minntes of the Kailway Station.
Mb. C. SHEATHER, PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry. . ......
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
The best shilling lunch in town
(including a Glass of Ale or a Cup of Tea
ia to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON ROOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COMB AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
Chemists and Druggists
M
k-r-
-pUBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
go well and favourably known to tbe Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
A POTHEOARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B.—The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
>r the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
as dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
iLL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
f Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOE THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
he BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
lent, if required, to any locality.
3 I M S AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
lell all kinds of HERBS and HERBAL MEDICINES,
TREAT ALL DISEASES,
(Using herbs only in their practice),
lEND MEDICINE AND ADVICE to all parts of the
colonies on receipt of Cash or Post Office Order.
lEEBAL BOOKS by most authors always on hand
and for sale.
Books free by post on application.
Address—
SIMS AND PAEKES,
240 GEORGE STREET NORTH
(Opposite Charlotte Place),
SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S. 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE TOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
T
0 BUILDERS AND OTHERS.
WALTER STEWART has erected new and improved
Steam Machinery and is now prepared to do for the
trade Circular, Fret, and Band Sawing, Planing, and
Turning at low rates. Turnery in stock or to order.
Funerals furnished.
Stewart’s Sawing, Turning & Peawing Minx,, and
Funeral Furnishing Establishment,
Bathurst and Pitt Streets.
Business Cards
[Legal.]
HOETER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER,
I SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
1" EGAL.-Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURSE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Gr.
AND S. PREDDET.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Eeskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
F
ESTABLISHED 1837.
O W L E R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application,
O WOODFORD AND CO.,
• (From London),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Comer of Queen’s Place).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
and Gasfitters.
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
O
N,
Em a s
• draughtsman
and
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
R. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis.
M
NOTICE. — I has to inform my numerous
friends that I have RESUMED BUSINESS as
a WINE and SPIRIT MERCHANT, at the
undermentioned address, and trust to merit a
continuance of the confidence and support ac-
corded me during my late partnership with
Messrs. Alt & Co.
FREDERICK HA.RPUR,
119 Pitt-street,
Near City Bank,
M
URPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OF
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOE USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31, GEORGE STREET WEST.
Auctioneers and Commission Agents
gCO T T, READ, & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS AND GENERAL AGENTS.
CENTRAL TEMORA.,
Will be glad to receive Suitable Agencies from Sydne
Firms.
Messrs. FRANK FITZPATRICK & CO , 322 George
street, are their Sydney Representatives.
T. B U R F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
€
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
IITT, SON, AND BADGERY,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SYDNEY.
N.B. —All Pat Stock received and classed carefully.
Large Store Stock connection.
Proceeds and Account Sales punctuallly rendered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY.
c
entral stock agency.
INTERCOLONIAL STOCK REGISTRY OFFICE,
322 George-street, Sydney.
All Stock for private sale throughout the Colonies
Registered here, free of charge, until disposed of. Com-
mission on sales effected 1 per cent. The fact of any
lot of stock being registered here for sale is at once a
sufficient advertisement for that lot, and any lot not
under offer may be withdrawn from registar on any
notice. MURRAY DAVIDSON, Auctioneer, Stock,
and Station Land, and General Commission Agent.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
.The WORVS.
The Name of M. MOSS & CO,
Is on every Genuine Bottle.
J
UNIPEE TREE
P. MELCHEES.
GIN.
W
Sri
«S‘
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS as a MEDICINE
Celebrated for its P UIiITT and FLAY OUR.
CHAS. BATH,
Sole Agent,
2 BRIDGE STREET
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first inpubluesti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made
but no other brand has the same mello™bom
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are ther£
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake or a
extra profit represent common beers refeir^toas
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL ana
CO., Sole Agents.
RAD£ MAR
m
B
OAE’S HEAD ST.OUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
Is selected with great care from tbe beat of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be exceliea.
To be Procured Everywhere.
* J.iR. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
Melbourne theatricals quiescent.
Macquarie House is now the professional haunt.
“ Hamlet,” at the Opera House, takes four
hours.
Kowalski plays shortly at the Melbourne Exhi-
bition.
Jessie and Ruth Grey will soon appear in
Sydney.
Rumours of “ ructions” among the Strauss band
already.
G. L. Goodman says he’s deaf and can’t write
“Pass Two.”
Those who love Art should not miss seeing
Gordon’s '• Glen.”
Zulu Thompson closed his School of Arts season
on Saturday night.
Sterling Whyte opens at Adelaide Theatre
Royal in November.
Kelly and Leon’s Minstrels open at St. George’s,
Melbourne, 16th Oct.
“ The Danites,” at the People’s, is the success
of the Melbourne season.
Ketten’s final flutter at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, this current week.
The San Francisco News letter calls Emily
Melville a “ dramatic darling."
Eleanor Carey and Sam W. Percy are showing
in the Eastern States of America.
Professor Baldwin (of Spiritualistic fame) has
ost a lot of money in America lately.
“ The Australian Gaiety Company,” including
the Cottier Family, are at Wollongong.
There is a rumour that the redoubtable “ John”
is at the back of a certain Sydney show.
JJS a night is a big rent tor the Maitland
theatre—but this is what is insisted on.
Philip Stuart is single. This in reply to many
female enquiries. We don’t know his age.
Mdlle. Franzini, the bicyclist, has been appear-
ing at St. George’s Hall, Wellington, N. Z.
Darrell has another pupil, and says he is going
to bring her out at the Melbourne People’s.
M‘Lean’s Juvenile Troubadours are doing by no
means a good business in the Orange district.
Mr. L. Getting, cornet soloist, late of the
Japanese troupe, is in Sydney disengaged.
Billy Sweatnam is engaged to Hiscocks and
Hayman, &c., for forty weeks, at a large salary.
Miss Emma Wangenhoim is permanently en-
gaged to travel with Kelly's Comedy Company.
Misses Lizzie Morgan, Lawrence, and Johns
had a joint benefit at Dunedin, N.Z., not long since.
Miss Myra Kemble is studying under Mr.
William Hoskins. A worthy master and an apt pupil.
“ Shylock” is in court again. This time Walter
Reynolds is sueing him for salary—£l3. Case adjourned.
Somebody is going to Brisbane, where recollec-
tions of poor Charlie Merkley may assist him consider-
ably.
The Lyster Opera Company are in Adelaide.
Hersee, Beaumont, Verdi, and Farley are the prin-
cipals.
Harry Simmons (Tilly Andrews’ husband) is with
Alice Johns’ company in Hobart Town; so is Harry
Power.
Ketten announces in the Ballarat papers that
he will give a farewell performance there on the 21st
current.
That talented vocalist, Miss Kate Slattery, will
sing at the Melbourne Liedertafel concert, on Monday
nigfit next.
Bachelder’s Panorama, travelling in N.Z., is
owned by Mr. J. M. Lord, a gentleman well-known to
the profession.
Fred. Marshall’s meerschaum pipe in “ Withered
Leaves " is coloured to perfection, and is the admiration
of connoisseurs.
“ Saved from the Fire; or Harold Wane’s
Dream" has been performed at the Protestant
Oh be-lud I—be-lud1 —be-lud 1
Mr. Hoskins doesn’t relish the fight in “ Mac-
beth,” he doesn’t mind true steel, but will not be op-
posed to Dutch njetal.
. J- K. Emmett says that his incarceration in the
inebriate asylum was the result of a wicked plot
got up by his enemies.
Gerald Dillon’s Corin reminds one of Teddy
Davies’ (the truthful ventriloquist’s) “little gurl in a
bqx, seven years oweld."
In the N.S.W. provinces the other day two well-
known professionals had a disagreement. One bit the
other’s hand very severely.
Lingard called an Auckland reporter a “ black-
guard” for “slating” the production of “Pinafore.”
However could he “ do it.”
Mr, H. H. Leake, an American actor of great
reputation, arrives by the next S. F. mail, under con-
tract to Al. Hayman and Co.
Wm. Horace Lingard and Vance, the London
comique, were playing at Opposition Music Halls in
London 14 or fifteen years ago.
The Kelly Comedy Opera Company, consisting
of ten artistes, are doing the Northern districts, under
the management of “ Liddy."
Mr. H. J. Byron, in recently responding to the
toast of his health, declared that its proposer had not
only toasted, but battered him.
The Auckland Star says that De Lias never
complains when a show of his without merit is con-
demned. We are glad to hear it.
A wealthy St. Louis merchant named J. A.
Lord brings Thom and Darvin to the colonies. We
thought this game was played out.
Who writes the spiteful Sydney theatrical
notices for the Australasian ? Surely there must be
a woman at the bottom ef them.”
Mr. George Gordon ought to take the vociferous
call for the “ Glen” scene. His absence at Bass Hodge's
stops the action of “Withered Leaves."
Miss Blanche Murray, song and dance artiste,
has returned to Sydney after a most successful tour in
the country with the Japanese troupe.
Edwin Browne and a small dramatic company
did a bad business at Maitland for three nights last
week. Then they went on to Newcastle.
Birtolomeotti wants to argue the point of
“What shall he have that kills the deer,” on the
stage, but the orchestra won’t wait for him.
On the last night of Leon’s show at Maitland,
some “ stage struck ” thief stole several lots of the
Mastodon Minstrels’ properties and wardrobe.
i Miss Leaf is under engagement to Mr. R. W.
Carey to play a short season of opera bouffe in Mel-
bourne, and then joins Lyster’s company there.
J-. W. Dodge and Co.’s first attraction in Tas-
mania during the holidays will be the Williamsons, who
have never before visited the “tight little island.”
Mr. H. J. Whittington, who was agent for the
Fakir of Oqlu, is in Christchurch, N.Z., acting in the
same capacity for Thompson’s Confederate Diorama.
Several seats were reserved for the last night of
Leon at Maitland, but on account of the introduction
of a sparring match into the programme the seats were
cancelled.
A company of minstrels, called W. H. Lyston’s
“Rosebuds," recently appeared for a week at the
Academy of Music, Wellington, N. Z. Frizes were also
given,
A few South Creek farmers, at the Queen’s
Theatre, roared over Macduff’s grief at the death of
his “ chickens,” and said “ Oh!” when they heard
“dam."
Mr. W. T. Wrighton, the composer of “ Her
bright smile haunts me still,” and other popular songs
and ballads, died recently at Tunbridge Wells, in his
64th year.
A lot of gushing Adelaide people, including the
Chief Justice, the Chief Secretary, and the Minister
for Education have signed a letter to Ketten, “ Yours
admiringly.”
The Lynch Family of Bellringers did good busi-
ness at Wanganui, N.Z. At latest they were at the
West Coast travelling in a coach of their own specially
made for the tour.
At the Royal, Melbourne, the final performance
of “ Struck Oil ” drew a good house. A farcical comedy
entitled “Snowball” and “The Chinese Question”
now form the bill of fare,
Mr. Walter Reynolds benefited at the Theatre
Royal, Christchurch, on 23rd September, in “ The
Shaughraun." Miss Grace Hathaway played Moya.
There was a crowded house,
Liddy takes “Frankenstein, the Man with the
Iron Lungs,” to Newcastle, audit sufficient inducement
offer, also to Maitland. “ Frankenstein " has been in-
invited to Melbourne International.
The Napier (N. Z.) Amateur Dramatic Club
recently had the cheek to attempt to play “The two
Orphans.” Mr., Mrs., and Miss Thornton assisted.
Did the audience sit out we wonder ?
An Auckland paper has the following:—
“Horace Lingard and J. C, Williamson don’t love each
other. The origin of their quarrel was, strange to say,
not a ‘petticoat,’ but a “ pinafore.’ ”
“ The Royal Middy” still holds the boards at
the Melbourne Opera House. Miss Montague and Mr.
Turner are established favourites, and justly so, while
Farley and Leopold are as effective as ever.
If Miss Pomeroy looked bewitching as Rosalind,
she was absolutely handsome as Lady Macbeth; and
seductive enough to make Macbeth, even before the
gorgeous banquet, see fifty daggers i’ the air.
The opening of “ Pinbehind,” which has been
played in Dunedin, N.Z„ is composed of Bumand’s
“ Black-Eyed Susan,” with the best known songs and
choruses from “ H.M.S. Pinafore” introduced.
Manager Chizzola made a tempting offer to Miss
Genevieve Ward for a tour of America and Australia,
in conjunction with Salvini, but the lady refused it,
saying that she has no idea of leaving England.
Kelly’s Comedy Company, “Liddy,” manager,
commenced their Northern tour at West Maitland last
Saturday. Artistically they were successful, but the
great rain interfered with the opening financially.
Anew paper published at Auckland, N.Z., has
pirated the caricature of De Lias which appeared in
The Bulletin when he last visited Sydney, and passed
it off as original. Our artist takes it as a compliment.
The Lynch family of bellringers were, at latest
dates, at Kaipoi en route for the West Coast of N.Z.
They give a farewell season at Christchurch, com-
mencing on sth November, prior to leaving the colony.
Miss Leaf was present the first night the
Lingards produced “ Pinafore ” at Auckland. Our
correspondent says she would profit by taking a lesson
from Mrs. Lingard in regard to dress and stage busi-
ness.
Miss Jennie Boyer, the celebrated ballad singer,
who only arrived from America per Australia last trip,
“ cleared out ”in the same steamer she came by. We
hear that she was dissatisfied with her business arrange-
ments.
The Dillon and South Company at late dates
were still at Charters Towers. “Richard III.,” “ The
Ticket-of-Leave Man,” and other pieces had been pro-
duced, and Miss Pender had had to benefit in “ East
Lynne.”
The Victorian Appeal Court has refused to
grant Mr. Joseph Aarons, of the Melbourne Academy
of Music, his insolvency certificate before the expira-
tion of two years. Mr, Aarons will also have to pay 7s.
in the £.
Drunken people, of either sex, no matter how
well-dressed they may be, don’t look well in the centre
box of a theatre; this especially in cases where, even if
sober, the people referred to wouldn’t do any credit to
the gallery.
Henry Bracy is now stage manager at the Globe
Theatre, London. Mrs. Braey is engaged to play at the
same theatre. Mr. John Hill, Mr. Bracy says, is en-
gaged at the Strand Theatre, to conduct the new opera
of “ Olivette,” which was to come out in the latter part
of last month.
r Mias Leaf has been engaged by Mr. R. W. Cary,
of Wellington, N.Z., to play Josephine for fourteen
nights in a Pinafore Company he has formed, at £2O a
week. After that she proceeds to Melbourne, under
engagement to Lyster.
At the Middlesex Sessions, on 10th July, the
Rev. George M'Murray pleaded guilty to having stolen
a conductor’s baton, value £2O, the property of Mr.
Barton M'Guckin, the celebrated vocalist. Sentence,
two months’ hard labour.
Adelaide Neilson, in her farewell at Booth’s
Theatre, S.F., said: “I am not only leaving friends,
but happiness itself; the skies can never again be as
bright as they have been to me here, nor flowers bloom
nor music sound any more."
In consequence of the great success of “The
Danites” at the People’s, Melbourne, George Darrell
has consented to postpone his opening until the 30th—
the Derby night. Hamilton deserves a throw in, and
the symptoms are favourable.
Madame Lotti Wilmot, says a N.Z. paper, would
be a greater success as the occupant of a comer seat in
a Christy Minstrel troupe than as a Sunday evening
lecturer in the interests, as she herself expresses it, of
“ enlightenment and civilisation."
Says an Auckland journal:—“ In the first act of
“ Our Boys,” Miss Horan, as the rich heiress, wore a
plain grey dress of quakerlike simplicity, whilst her poor
relation (Mrs. Lingard) was gorgeously and tastefully
costumed in a richly embroidered silk.”
One of the numerous morals to be derived from
Adelaide Neilsen’s death is “never drink iced milk
or, in fact, any other iced fluid. Many a death is
caused by a copious draught of moderately cool,
though not iced water taken when the body is heated.
Contemporary dramatic criticism. From the
Mobnin’ Mackat: —“When inciting her husband to
commit one of the bloodiest murders that ever stained
the dramatic page, she looked and spoke as if she meant
it.” Can higher praise be given to Miss Pomeroy than
this!
George Harris and Morton Tavares have had a
row at Brisbane. George went to Morton's house in
order to have a sniff round as agent for the landlord;
and somehow or other, as he was poking about with his
umbrella, hit Morton in the eye. Fined Is., but no
costs allowed.
The Theatre Royal, Christchurch, N. Z., at the
present time, is occupied jointly by the Confederate
Diorama and Bachelder’s Pantacope of the American
War. With the assistance of “gifts,” and two ven-
triloquists as an additional attraction, a good business
is being done.
Marlande Clarke, who used to give “ readings”
at the Brighton Aquarium, is playing now at the Lon-
don Polytechnic, in “Scenes from Hamlet.” Mr.
Clarke used to be tutor to Sir Lytton Bulwer’s nephew
and then his name was Mathew. But Marlande
sounds better.
Re the Lingard’s “ Pinafore” in Auckland. A
correspondent, writing to one of the papers, wished to
know if it was “ The Wreck of the Pinafore.” We are
commencing to doubt whether there is such an opera.
If so, Lingard and Searell are a long time letting it see
the light of day.
De Lias, of Auckland, has decided not to con*
test the copyright question any further, and entered
into an agreement with Mr. Qillon, agent for the Dra-
matic Authors’ Society in New Zealand, to pay fees in
all theatres under his management—that is one, the
Theatre Royal, Auckland.
Mr. Frederick Marshall, the inimitable come-
dian, is said to have formally signified his intention of
severing his connection with the London Comedy Com-
pany in consequence of his having accepted an engage-
ment with the managers of the Theatre Royal, Mel-
bourne. He leaves at the end of November.
The London Figaro says : —“ In New South
Wales they have resolved to specially tax the theatres
with a shilling a-head annually on the seating capacity.
This tax is a very silly one, for managers have quite
enough difficulty to build a big theatre, without being
satirically reminded of their task by a tax.”
Barry Sullivan, writing from the Savage Club,
says “ that no person has received authority from him
to make engagements on his behalf, or to pledge his
name in any way whatever, and that he cannot, nor will
he be bound by any engagements or pledges other than
those made by, and signed and sealed by, himself.”
An Auckland writer, “Max,” says:—“Adelaide
is the most extraordinary town for theatricals. Pro’s,
who fail everywhere else, do well there, and the veriest
‘ frosts ’ in Melbourne often draw crowded houses.
The “ Steele Dramatic Company ” had better reor-
ganise and start off instanter for the South Australian
capital.”
Some very astounding performances have already
been witnessed in connection with the great brass band
contest. One artist has succeeded in blowing all the
pistons out of his comet, and another has made his
French horn as straight as a fishing-rod. What the
trombone man may achieve can only be very vaguely
guessed at.
Miller, the athlete, lifts above his head with one
hand a dumb-bell weighing 161 lbs., or eleven stone and
a half. The man with whom he wrestles is a French-
man, named Victor, who, though light and no match
for the champion, is yet a very scientific lutteur, and
gives Miller a good deal of trouble to put his shoulders
on the ground.
Edmund Yates, chatting with W. S. Gilbert,
sad: “How came you to select the word ‘Pinafore.’
It is such a neat lucky name?” ‘“Pinafore,”’ the
author explained, “was suggested entirely by the
rhyme. ‘ Three cheers more,’ sung when the * gallant
captain * comes on board, must have something to
rhyme to it. ‘ Semaphore ’ was the first idea ; but this
was subsequently set aside for ‘ Pinafore.’ "
Adelina Patti is enjoying a rest in her castle of
Craig-y-nos, in Wales, which has cost her £BO,OOO. On
taking possession, she gave a fete to the leading men of
the English, French, and Italian Press. It is said that
she has signed engagements for an eighteen months’
tour in America, for which she is to receive 600,000
dollars (£140,000), and that on the termination of the
American engagement she will retire into private life.
At a rehearsal of Pinafore, in Auckland, the
chorus sang terribly out of tune, and Mrs. Lingard was
much exercised in consequence. “Now, boys, do keep
your eye on the baton,” she ejaculated persuasively,
meaning, of course, the conductor’s baton. The
chorus, however, were altogether at sea, and knew not
where to look. At length a son of Erin, gazing up at
the ceiling, murmured perplexedly: “ Whar the divil
is th' bottong thin ?”
“ Stolen Kisses,” at the Academy, Melbourne,
has proved a success. The play is well mounted, but
the cast, generally speaking, does not compare favour-
ably with the Sydney one under the Lingard regime.
Nevertheless, the performance is a most enjoyable one,
and the manager (Wybert Reeve) deserves every credit
for the manner in which he produces the various novel-
ties. Under this gentleman’s competent direction the
theatre will always hold its own.
Says a Liverpool paper of old Sydney favourites
—Nat Salsbury’s Troubadours : —“ Although the per-
formance has been modified during the week, in defer-
ence to the susceptibilities of the * Britisher,’ it is full
of such features as one does not expect to find in any
piece put on the Alexandra boards. Were the piece
and the players from London, there could be but one
opinion about them; as they are from New York—
well, they are simply ‘ out of their element.’ ”
The Sydney Choral Association propose to give
a picnic to the only honest musical critic in the city.
The locale has not yet been chosen, but an address in
verse is en route. This is the commencement of the
poean:—
Fair lady, with what genius do you wield the quill!
Oh, that I had the gumption, as I have the will,
O’erpowering would be the effusions I can’t smother.
Like those you use in filling your Grandmother.
Mr. Simonsen starts for New Zealand with his
new English and Italian Opera Company in about two
months, after playing in Melbourne. The company
will be half Italian and half English, so as to appear on
alternate nights. The two best tenors in Australia—
Paladini for Italian, and Branch! for English—have
been engaged as principals. All the leading people will
be good, and the chorus small, but first-class. The
company start from the Bluff, and work their way
northwards.
Miller, the champion athlete of the world, opened
at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, under the management
of Macdermott, and the exposition was received with
enthusiasm by a large audience. The dumb-bell exer-
cises and the wrestling exhibition were the most note-
worthy items in the miscellaneous programme. Barry
O'Neil sang well, as also did Amy Horton, whilst little
Kate Ramsden fairly delighted the audience by her
grace and agility. Miller and party will shortly show
in Sydney.
E. D. Davies is on the war-path again. He kept
until lately a small pub. in Adelaide called the Commer-
cial, in Grenfell-street. It was a house of call for the
pros., only they didn’t often call. The table was not
quite Balthazar-like in its appointments, and even when
there was a good dish, some one used to mar the har-
mony of the proceedings with the exclamation : “Ain't
it lovely, Teddy?” So the place wasn’t a success,
somehow. There’s no mistake about Teddy’s ventrilo-
quism, and people would like to see him round here
again.
Some of the American papers were endeavoring
before the season opened to repress the excitement in
New York over the approaching debut of Sara Bern-
hardt on the American stage. It was pointed out in one
paper that the great artiste was the mother of four
children, but had never bothered herself about a hus-
band. Other journals took the matter up and expressed
the hope that Mdlle. would not be allowed to cross the
threshold of private houses. The whole affair was a
trick of the managers. It was thus they were ensuring
a brilliant season.
A San Francisco correspondent writes :—“ I do
believe the end of the legitimate drama is at hand.
“ The Baldwin,” our bijou theatre, has had recourse to
burlesque to fill its lovely exterior, and even fails at
that. A succession of disgustingly immoral plays have
failed to prove attractive. Lately a play called “De-
ception," a piracy from an old French drama supposed
to have been forgotten, but since raked up by stage de-
tectives, created quite a furore by the beastliness of its
plot. Many filthy and demoralising plots I have seen
lately, but this is the creme de la creme of them all.
“ The World,” now playing at Old Drury, is
written by Messrs. Paul Meritt, H. Pettitt, and A.
Harris. From what we can learn the play must be
highly sensational, for in it are embodied the explosion
of an infernal machine at sea, a fight ou a raft, a shove
down a lift-trap, the braining of the second villain, the
chloroforming of the hero, the settling of six or seven
madhouse keepers by one sane prisoner, and the skim-
ming of a row boat over the silvery waves of a “pro-
perty” river. It is on the whole a very wicked world,
and, as may be expected, “ fetches” the unpatrician.
We suppose Bland will secure the copyright for
Australia.
A ’Frisco correspondent says:—“ The death of
Adelaide Neilson cast a perfect pall of sorrow over the
city. The last night here she played Amy Robsart, one
of the most touching and wonderful of her impersona-
tions. Her scene with Elizabeth, when she grovels at
the Queen’s feet, and drags herself round the stage, on
her knees, was terrible in its intensity. She was fear-
fully ill, suffering from tightness of the chest, and she
tore her clothes and shrieked in her physical agony,
though none knew her emotion was aught but an access
of impassioned fervour. As the curtain descended, she fell
in a dead faint, and was with difficulty restored—and yet
she was vilified by htr sister women. That night will
never be forgotten by those who saw her. As I happen
to know some ladies who were in her dressing-room, I
know this was one of those heart attacks which over-
shadowed her life. Curiously enough, on her baggage
was labelled, “ Farewell Tour.” How little that lovely
woman knew _it was indeed her farewell. On her pho-
tographs which she gave me at parting she wrote,
' Tout lasse, tout passe, tout lasse.’ She was always sad,
and said she had not long to live. She might be likened
to a gorgeous night-blowing Ceres, blooming in magni-
ficence once in a hundred years, and slowly dying midst
the splendour of her wondrous beauty.”
The big Hippodrome in Exhibition, alias Sto
phen-street, Melbourne, has been erected in a stran '
way. Hitherto a row of brick cottages, occupied IT
women of a low character, have lain between Littl
Bourke-streetand Lonsdale-street on the west side Tf
was determined to remove these dens—to wipe them
out from the face of the partially regenerated street-
hut a happy thought seized one of the parties inte
rested, and having removed the back parts of the houses
he allowed the front walls to stand, built in the doors
and windows, and thus formed a good substantial wail
along the line of the street. He then erected two
towers and battlements at the corner of Little Bourte
and Exhibition streets, to guard the entrance to the
space at the rear of the former dwellings, and has made
a grand “ Hippodrome” of the whole. J. H. Knine
(“ Factor Knipe") is the speculator. ’ 16
The New Yorkers are going to have fine times
The S. F. Morning Call of 20th July says Amon?
the well-known actors who will appear in New York
next season may he named the following: Mdlle. Sara
Bernhardt, Joseph Jefferson, John M’Cullough, Ed
A. ISothem, Ada Cavendish, Genevieve Ward, Lester
Wallack, George Fawcett Rowe, Kate Field, Mdlle
Paola Marie, Mary Anderson, Mrs. Scott-Siddons, Mr'
and Mrs. George S. Knight, Emily Soldene, Agnes
Booth, Bose Coghlan, John Gilbert, Mrs. Boucicault
Lawrence Barrett, Louise Pomeroy, and Alice Bar’-
rison.
Our correspondent writer us that Walter Rey-
nolds had a big house at his farewell benefit in the
Theatre Royal, Christchurch, N.Z. “The Shau<ffi-
raun” was produced on the occasion, with the betfcji-
dare as Conn, which he played well, his wife (Grace
Hathaway) appearing as Moya, and Mrs. Walter Hill
as Claire Ffoliet. Lieut. Herman also kindly assisted
with an exhibition of ventriloquism. At the close of
the performance, the audience, not satisfied with Mr
Reynolds appearing once in response to their applause)
called him out again, when he returned thanks in i’
very neat speech.
The Byronic Comedy Company, who have been
playing for some time to poor houses in Dunedin, N.Z.,
are not quite a happy family. In a recent performance'
of nigger business, while Mr. Alexander was interro.
gating Bones, a young lady in the dress circle threw a
bouquet of flowers, bearing a letter, on the stage. Mr.
Alexander announced that the missile contained a re)
quest that he should sing a selection from “ H.M.S.
Pinafore,” entitled “Fair Moon, to thee I sing.” An
unseemly dispute then took place between Mr. Alex-
ander and Mr. Wilkinson, and the programme was
brought to an unexpectedly sudden termination. We
wonder if it was a “ catch” on account of a bad house.
The first concert of the Fifth Subscription
season of the Sydney Musical Union takes place at the
Masonic Hall on Saturday afternoon. The novelties to
be produced are Braham’s celebrated “Song of Fate,” for
chorus and orchestra, produced for the first time in the
colonies; Allegretto of the Seventh Symphony of
Beethoven, by desire, also for the first time; Beetho-
ven’s Concerto for piano and orchestra; Niels Gade’g
popular cantata, “ Erl King’s Daughter,” for soprano,
alto, barritone, chorus and orchestra, by special re-
quest. The orchestration both of the “ Song of Pate ”
and “Erl King’s Daughter” are extremely difficult, and
the intervals which the chorus have to sing in the former
are generally considered the most difficult music
written. The Musical Union deserves every support
for its efforts to inculcate a taste for classical music.
Those of the old playgoers of Sydney who re-
member the Theatre Royal in George-street, and the
Victoria in its earliest days, will recollect Eliza Win-
stanley, one of the most versatile and clever actresses
that ever trod the colonial stage, and the very first that
left this colony to try her fortune before a London
audience. She obtained an engagement under the late
Mr. Charles Kean, and, assisted by him and his amiable
and talented wife, soon won her way to public favour.
She continued with them for many years, accompany-
ing them in all their provincial tours and travels
throughout the United States, making a most favour-
able impression wherever she appeared. Subsequently,
with the late Mr. Macready, and afterwards with Mr.
Fechter, she still more firmly established her reputa-
tion, and for years held a leading position on the Lon-
don boards. Many of her impersonations, according
to the criticisms penned by famous writers, have never
been surpassed, and they were certainly seldom
equalled. During the later years of her professional
career she turned her attention to comedy, and in such
parts as the Widow Cheerly, Widow Warren, Mrs.
Malaprop, &0., has left an impression not soon to be
forgotten by those who witnessed her performances. A
few years ago the impaired state of her health com-
pelled her with regret to quit the profession in which
she had passed so many years of her life, and engage in
literary pursuits. The periodicals Bow Bells and
Reynolds’ Miscellany, have been for years largely in-
debted to her pen, and to them she is still a contri-
butor. A short time since she returned to Australia,
and is now residing at Geelong.
This is the text. —Mr. John Bennett, at a meet-
ing held at the Royal auent his testimonial fund, said,
in the course of a neat speech;—Shortly before the
fire a very interesting girl of 17 or 18 came to him and
said he had robbed her of her husband in sending him
to Melbourne with the “New Babylon,” as the mail
had deserted her and left her penniless. Well, he paid
her board until he proved the truth of the story, and
then arranged for her being taken to Melbourne, but
before she started she told him that the ladies of the
theatre had taken up her case, subscribed £lO for her,
and written on her behalf to the ladies'of the company
in Melbourne. When he went over to Melbourne he
found her in a respectable situation, obtained for her
by these ladies, so that this was a pleasant memory for
him.
In a letter dated sth October, our Auckland
correspondent writes ‘ The Lingards and company
produced “ H.M.S, Pinafore," on Monday night last, to
a crammed house, and during the week a payable busi-
ness has been done. Regarding the performance I can’t
speak of it in terms of praise, and it is universally
admitted as being far inferior to the previous repre-
sentation of “ Pinafore ” the Lingards gave here. Mrs.
Lingard’s Josephine is the main stay of the opera, and
I am of opinion that she is the best representative of
the part Auckland has as yet seen. She acts splendidly,
sings well, and dresses as few others can. Lingard, as
Sir Joseph, brings out the “points” effectively, and
renders the music fairly, while Miss Horan’s Buttercup
and Craig’s Bos’un, are well-played characters. Dawson
makes a wooden Ralph Rackstraw as far as acting is
concerned, and his voice is of small compass. Bursts of
laughter are nightly heard in all parts of the house when
Mrs. Lingard makes love to the unsympathetic Ralph,
and general expressions of regret are heard at the poor
support accorded to the gifted lady. Captain Corcoran
is a positive failure in the hands of A. J. Campbell, and
on more than one night the audience have expressed
their disapproval. Owen Westford’s Dick Deadeye is
not what it should be, and I ask where is fascinating
Miss Melrose, who played Hebe so well on a former
occasion, for Miss E. Adelle is anything but good in the
part. The season concluded on Saturday, last night
(Monday), a farewell benefit being tendered to Mrs-
Lingard and, a lengthy programme was submitted, viz.,
“ The Vestal ” and “ Our Boys.” A big house greeted
the rising of the curtain, and the performance was a
thoroughly enjoyable one, Lingard’s Butterman and his
wife’s Mary Melrose, as usual, meeting with mucn
favour and applause. The whole of the company go
South to-day, playing at Wellington first. A news-
paper war has been raging for the last few days between
the Stab and Luscombe Searell-Lingard combined, on
account of an adverse notice of “Pinafore” appearing
in that journal after the third representation, and praise
being previously accorded. The town is now without
amusement of any kind.
“Actors, as actors, are a lawful game ”
So sang a poet of immortal fame;
And in their hearts the players must despise
The scribe who lauds when he should criticise.
With us, we prnise where praise is justly due.
Take of their actions just an honest view.
They are but mortals whate’er be their parts.
But they are mortals who have feeling hearts !
And though their means be scanty, they are sure
To help with lavish hand the sick and poor!
Give pounds where some of our philanthropists
Would on their bulky purses close their fists.
All honor, then, to these fair ladies who
Have shown their souls are kind, their hearts are true;
Have shown what should call up a blush of shame
To many a snuffler with a “ rev’rend” name.
Let all who would at the “poor players" jeer
First read and mark what we have written here!


PEPPER AND SALT.
Home papers announced that, by the marriage of
the Baroness Burdett-Coutts, a Mr. Money comes
- £ Ol . j? 20,000, the prior heir-at-law being dead.
M’he Hr. Money referred to is. I am informed, Mr.
Arthur Money, of the A.M.P. Society’s Melbourne
office. This handsome young gentleman will now
be able to deal with those who are so assiduously
endeavouring to drag him through the ordeal of a
cross-examination in that hydra-headed cause
ceU’hre of ours —which bids fair to rival Jarndyce
and Jarndyce for length, breadth, and expense—
which, in its present Protean shapes, has already
o-iven so much food to the lawyers, so many in-
mates to the gaol, so much trouble to reporters,
so much delight to scandal-mongers, and which,
though it has already caused one splendid insol-
vency, and encouraged the official assignee to acts
of magnificent hospitality, will yet cause more
bankruptcy, defile more characters, bring about
more perjury, and make people, now prosperous
enough, curse the memory of their godfathers.
A gentleman, now I am grieved to say deceased,
paid his addresses to a young lady, the daughter
of a well-to-do Picnicville merchant. In course of
time it became generally understood that they
were engaged, but some difference arose, and the
engagement was broken off, the lady being sent
south by her mamma in order that she might for-
get “ the first one of her heart.” Well, he died
suddenly, and his death was announced to the
family in the following very romantic way:—
Scene —Breakfast table. Grace just ended. The
parlour-maid appears suddenly, and in a very ex-
cited state. DU elle; “Oh, ma’am, poor Henry
is dead! —just fancy, ma’am, and it was only a
fortnight ago yesterday that he sent me that
locket with his hair in it!” Susan got a good
bonus to say no more.
“A wealthy squatter, who has just taken up his
residence in old Government House, Melbourne,”
(says the Hamilton Spectatoe) “has caused to
be manufactured, totally regardless of cost, a
magnificent set of double carriage harness elabo-
rately and profusely ornamented with his crest —
or rather with his coat of arms, ‘ bearers’ included
—in solid colonial gold, the whole forming an ex-
cellent and highly-finished specimen of colonial
workmanship. Messrs. L. Poster and Sons, the
well-known saddlers, are the manufacturers.”
The “ wealthy squatter” referred to is “ a party
by the name of Johnson,” who owns several of
the finest stations in the western district of Vic-
toria. As usual there’s “ a woman at the bottom of
it” —for it’s understood that Mrs. Johnson, ahand-
some and “ see how it sparkles!” kind of lady, is
the instigator of all this glory—of the foolish dis-
play which, it has been remarked, reminds one of
the time when diggers ate big bank notes between
their slices of bread and butter, and shod their
horses with gold. Mrs. Johnson, by-the-way, is
the mother of that clever and amiable, though
eccentric young lady who, as “ The Boy-girl,”
attracted so much attention in Melbourne a few
years ago, but who died suddenly of typhoid a few
days after removing from St. Kilda to Toorak.
Some wonder whether “ Stella ”
Is a woman or a fellah.
The Bulletin’s picture, “Man the Lifeboat,”
went down “big” at Newcastle. So did the Su-
sanne Godeffroy.
There was trouble in a Metropolitan Sunday-
school during the past week. It was a sort of
show day, and the Bible knowledge of the good
little boys and girls was being tested by quite a
crowd of well-dressed visitors. The talk ran on
Judas Iscariot, and one of our leading ladies
patronisingly observed : “ Now, what child can
tell me who Judas was ?” There was an unmis-
takable flash of silence for about five minutes,
and many a thumb was sucked in sorrow, until a
bright-eyed little candy-devourer who hails from
Kent-street South called out: “Please, mem, I
thinks he was one of the ‘ forties!’ ” She was
ordered to stand on her head till the school broke
up, and the first families changed the subject.
Someone told Frank Warden that there was a
large bar kept open every Sunday at the mouth of
the Grafton River. Frank is going to have that
bar closed, he says, or he’ll stand sword in hand
before it and chop junks out of any sinner who
dares to enter. That is, if he don’t get wet.
One of the most successful items at the Govern-
ment printers’ late picnic (the feed, of course, ex-
cluded) was the ladies’ foot-race. About 15 Ata-
lantas toed the scratch, and the pedestrian “ set ”
which they assumed clearly proved they had either
heard of Aplitt or knew something about the mas-
culine members of the Amateur Athletic Club.
Miss Hoseman won the valuable prize cleverly,
and thereby hangs a tale —five-and-twenty tales
in fact. N Before the race this lady “had never a
lover at all,” but as soon as it was known she had
scooped the pool, five-and-twenty “Knightsof
the Case ” went down upon bended knees and im-
plored her to have compassion on their woes and
fly to the loving heart which only beat for her. The
betting at present is 4 to 1 on Sam M'Cracken. No
takers.
Newman Scott says there’s one good thing
about Temora. No one is ever troubled with
water on the brain up there. It’s too expensive.
He is sorry, however, he cannot say the same re-
specting “ whisky.”
Young persons of either sex who are compelled,
either through motive of pleasure or necessity, to
court in Hyde Park, should court with caution,
for every paling has an ear and every blade of
grass a tongue. I was lying there the other day
musing on the infinitude —as the party said who
was trying to reckon up how much he owed —when
a bloated old buttercup bent down, and gently
touching a neighbour, said: “ Daisy, you were
a deep when the last couple were here, and, my
eye! wasn’t it fun. You see he was a nice, soft-
headed looking youngster, and she was oh! such
a scrumptious little darling. I felt happy when I
kissed the hem of her 12/llf d. petticoat, and fit to
burst with joy when her 4/6Jd. tastings knocked me
flat and trod on me. Says she, 4 George, dear, do you
love me muchly ?’ ‘ Oh Maude, my angel, that’s not
the name for it. I dream of thee by night, and I
tnink of thee by day ; I am jealous of the breeze
that kisses thy lovely cheek; of the glove that
clasps thy dainty hand, and of the sun that
sparkles in thy bright, beaming, laughing eyes. My
love is as pure as au angel’s breath, and as strong
as a jackass’s kick or an old cheese.’ Then she
pillowed her head on his manly breast, to the
great disgust of his clean shirt, and heaving a
tender sigh, enquired, 4 George, what kind of a
screw are you getting now ?’ ‘Well, darling,’ re-
plied George, ‘ only 150 quid at present, but when
Sir Jack hears I’m going to be spliced he’ll put me
through proper, I toll you. You know he’s
rats” on the girls himself, my sweet, and a
fellow feeling makes him wondrous kind.’
‘ George,’ said Maude, ‘ you can kiss me now, only
don’t make it sound.’ “And then,” continued
the buttercup, ‘ I shut my eyes, and a noise went
forth like unto that of an old cow pulling her
hoof out of a big bog.” The daisy smiled, the
buttercup roared, and I got up and kicked the
pair of their heads off. I heard the palings tell
another yarn, but it is hardly the style for a reli-
gious journal like The Bulletin.
Amidst the pride and excitement of our athletic
conquests across the pond we are apt to forget the
man to whose judgment and pluck we owe our first
great victory. Some one asked Jim Punch the
other day why it was he had not even a testimonial
given him. “I had much rather,” said James,
“that it should be asked why I had not a testi-
monial than why I had one.”
David Buchanan has had his hair cut. _ He says
it was done by contract, but G. H. Reid says it
was trimmed with a pair of Protective shears.
In the interests of Protection, I suppose, the
master butchers have decided that the best prize
of their next reunion shall be given to the man who
can raise the primest crop of mutton chop whiskers;
goose fat, kerosene oil, and other hair encouragers
are therefore in great demand ; but at present the
gorgeous “side levers” of Mr. Tom Skillicornare
far ahead of everything. Alderman Playfair will
no doubt draw second money; but_ Dan Usshin
says unless he can get a boy to go inside and knock
his through he’ll have to stand out and pay the
forfeit. However, this is a step in the right
direction, for the master butchers are a barefaced
lot in general.
Elias Laycock Blackman licked—
Blackman whom the “ talent ” picked—
Hands down!
Trickett, when the time has come,
Will make little Hanlan “ hum ”
Hands down!
Lewis Scott and Fred Marshall were “ glu-
cosing” themselves with raspberry syrup the other
day, when Fred remarked that he was nearly
choked off the stage during his early life by being
continually told he was too little. “ Frederick,”
said Lewis, “ do you know what Francis Bacon
says about the business.” “No.” “Well,”
Frank says, “ Nature always shows herself best in
her smallest works.” “ Lewis,” replied Fred, “ I
must know this fellow Bacon ; bring him round to
dinner next Sunday, and I’ll give him the bulliest
time he has ever had since he was vaccinated.
Now, he’d be the kind of fowl to make a manager
out of.” The soul of Lewis fell to zero, but he
hadn’t the heart to tell his friend that Bacon was
dead, so he brought Hanley Bennett round instead,
and passed him off as my Lord of Verulara. I
didn’t hear from either Lewis or Bacon since.
The latest music out is a song entitled, “ Sweet
Madeline, I think of thee.” It is dedicated to the
youngest Miss St. Clair, and will be sung con amore
by every concert-goer in Sydney.
Once upon a time there was a good lady who
owned several handsome daughters and a big
lodger of the male persuasion. This lodger had a
male friend, and he invited this friend to drop in
any time he liked, and do a bottle of stout and
discuss the present Land Act with him. The
friend dropped in last Sunday; but as he passed
the drawing-room window he saw a sight which
froze his young blood, and made each individual
hair stand on end like an old birch broom in a big
fit. The male boarder was stretched on a couch,
and one of the daughters (only one fortunately)
was actively engaged in—in —what do they call it
wh on two young people put their mouths together ?
When the friend recovered he knocked; the
osculatory young lady opened the door, and re-
marked with the most unbounded joy : “ Oh, Mr.
Brown, so you’ve come at last; oh, we’re awfully
delighted to see you.” The visitor had just time
to repeat a few lines from a Sunday-school hymn
which he had learnt in happier days, and which
ran as follows —
“ Can this be ?
We are ruined by Chinese cheap labour,
And he went for that heathen Chinee.”
When he ushered into the room, and had the
pleasure of observing the male lodger fast asleep,
and covered up with a handkerchief, the lady ex-
plained that he generally over-ate himself at dinner,
and slept all the rest of the Sabbath, so the visitor
shook him up ; the boarder yawned ; the daughter
smiled; everybody felt awfully delighted to see
everybody else, and the visitor had to go outside
and kick in the ribs of an innocent old poodle to
relieve his pent-up feelings. The moral to the
above is, “ pull down the blind.”
Setright is the counter clerk at Elvy’s, and he is
also one of the most obliging clerks and “ proper-
est ” young men in all Sydney. He was at the far
end of the shop on Thursday last when he noticed
a rather dashing young lady with a great deal of
colour in her cheek, and a great deal of cheek in
her eye polkering about the shop in search of
something. Setright immediately flew to her
rescue and leaning over enquired with his blandest
smile : “Can I do anything for you to-day, Miss ?”
(he calls every female Miss between the ages of
six and sixty) “ Yes, if you please,” replied the
lady with rather an embarrassed air, “ you may
kiss me and caress me and I won’t tell Mamma.”
Setright immediately lay down on his back, and
began to assault the floor with his bump of ama-
tiveness, and it was some time before the other
clerks could haul him to again. When they did,
however, the first object that caught his eye was
a large poster of the shapely Pomeroy, dressed as
Rosalind, and he at once went into a sort of
galaxy of all the fits imaginable, in the midst of
which he continually roared, “Take that girl
away; she wants to marry me.” Ladies shouldn’t
ask for their music so abruptly.
G. E. Maclean —that classic name!
Is down for Inverell;
G. E. Maclean, that classic name
Is down—so doth he long for fame—
For Sydney (South) as well!
G. E. Maclean—how sad his case is !
Will be beaten at both places!
E’en from the ladder’s bottom rung
Most he thrust each dense geebung;
And therefore you’ll be licked, yon see,
Mr. George Maclean, J.P.
During the reign of the Caliph Robinson there
were three young calendars, or king’s sons, getting
“fifteen bob a week” in the Lands Department.
Now. the father of these three sons was a great
magician, and just before he died he gave the
eldest son a ring, which, he said, when rubbed with
a bit of rag would summon a genie who would
grant the rubber anything. Of course the son
pawned it; but drawing it cut on “ the first,” he
rubbed it, and the genie came. This genie, how-
ever, said times were changed since the days of
Solomon, and the genie business was about played
out, but he could grant one wish to each of the
sons. So the eldest wished first, and wished for
.£lOO,OOO. This he got; next day he went home,
and did the Continent, and now he earns a pre-
carious living by picking up lead in a shooting
alley. The second son was deeply in love with a
female girl, but her Pa was a vigorous cuss, and
wore long elevens. The genie arranged an elope-
ment, however, and the second son now turns a
mangle, while his wife steps out to trade with the
vegetable man or the rag merchant. But the
third son had a level head, and he wished that his
tailor, Gaffney, might be put on board a sinking
ship off Nobby’s. That son is now amassing wealth
as reporter for the Christian Weekly, and has
the free run of all theatres, pubs., and coffee-mills
in Sydney. But where is Gaffney P “ Ask of the
winds that far around with fragments strew the
sea” —only take a flask of brandy with you, as the
air is damp round Nobby’s.
Concerning athletic matters the telegraph clerks
have rather original notions. For instance, one-
half of them run, but never train ; the other half
train, but never run; and the rest stay at home,
and lie about what they used to do in Melbourne.
It was an Italian named DeLange that told me
this. Again, as a rule, the clerk who comes to the
post the fittest is generally the one who lives near
the biggest fowl-house. Bussell ate 9 dozen of
eggs every day for at least six months before the
late regatta, but the Benalla man says Bussell’s
backers evidently “ egged” him onto it. Thirdly,
they don’t all train on the same principle. When
Eush trains, he lives on kerosene oil and worm
powders, occasionally varied by a postage-stamp
or the smell from a sixpenny cook-shop , but when
Board goes on the war-path, and starts to pull
himself down, the cafe proprietors buy double-
barrelled guns, and plant behind the screens to
get a good shot at him. They are not altogether
scared about what he eats, but it’s the bother
of giving evidence next day at the coroner’s inquest
that troubles them. When Molony trains for a
month, all the paint has to be scratched off the
doors to make enough room to squeeze him
through ; but when Tompkins trains, all the
other clerks frequently make mistakes, and
“ yank” him half way home in the insane belief
that they’ve picked up a first-rate walking-
stick. The Post-office buccaneers hold a big
day’s sporting shortly, so I’ll look them up for
the next issue. The principal event is the ‘ ‘ sack ’ ’
race. It hasn’t a cheerful sound, but there isn’t
much in a name, unless there’s a big cheque con-
venient.
People talk now of “that rising young actor,
Mr. Laurence Foley.” Professional boxers of
course make the wrestling scene in “As You
Like It” hum —they give a tone, as it were, to
the whole performance; but it doesn’t do to
engage an excitable specimen. Poor Walter
Montgomery was once playing Orlando, and Jem
Mace was the wrestler Charles. As long as the
talk was going on, the thing was a big success ;
but when the pair “gripped,” and began to
struggle, Mace “ lost his head,” and seizing
Orlando round the waist, he carefully slung him
out into the orchestra, and the fiddlers were
drowned in the sawdust debris of the unfortunate
actor. Montgomery got a man out of the Infir-
mary to play the part next time, and the way he
put that invalid to grass was enough to drive his
spine clean through the flooring.
Judge Windeyer returned to town last week
from Dubbo. There was no demonstration —no
brass bands—no flags —no gingerbeer—in fact,
“no nothing.” He doesn’t ask jurors if they
know the law better than he does. They are
getting too smart for these conundrums.
Our friend Endymion, of the 11 ■ Eowing
Club, is into a “ muss” again. Some fiend in
human form told him that serenades were not out
of date ; in fact they were quite common about
the harbour now, and as he had a passable voice
he ought to try one. The following night found
Endymion balancing himself on the side of his
boat armed with a big second-hand guitar which
he couldn’t use, and a rather “ multy” song which
he couldn’t sing. However, he stood up as he
got beneath his Luna’s window (as he supposed),
and broke out as follows: —
I cur-um, my love
(Twang twang)
To see-ek fur thee
(Pompom)
And tempt ther waves
(Ting ting)
Of the r-r-r-agingsea
(Bom horn).
But oh!
He only oh’d about three bars (including Punch’s)
when a window opened above his head and a
globular weapon descended, knocking Endymion
to the depths of the briny sea. where he paddled
about screaming Fire! Murder ! Bigamy! and
every other crime in the legal calendar. He got
astride of his upturned boat at last, and cooled
his love and his heels till day break, when the
Water Police dragged him off and revived him.
He says another fellow can have the Luna now
and the guitar as well, but he can kick the man
who threw that bombshell with one hand tied
behind him.
It is, I am aware, rather an undesirable subject
to grasp, but the recent comments of a San Fran-
cisco paper on the legs of the contralto Signora
Vossi call for a little jostling. “We have seen,”
says this inky assassin, “Signora Yessi’s legs, as
Siebel, in ‘ Faust;’ again, as Orsini, in the
‘ Borgia ;’ and, again, as Arsace in ' Semiramide,
and iwe feel bound to say that she has either
three sets of legs, or affects the sawdust. Now,
Dave Buchanan, one of the greatest theatrical
critics of this or any other age, made a rumpus
because Hamlet didn’t happen to have a “ ginger”
wig on ; and if Bandmann played “ Othello” with a
pair of red “ Dundrearies,” an insulted populace
would probably rise up at once and scalp him.
This proves that Signora Vessi is right and the
’Frisco noodle ought to go and soak his head in a
tanpit. Siebel “ vas coom from Yarmany,” and
I appeal to our friend Gus. Wangenheim if big
fat legs—something akin to enormous Bologna
sausages —are not the rule amongst the saner kraut
devourers ? Orsini, on the other hand, was a slim
young Italian; and Arsace was, of course, an
ancient Egyptian. I have only seen one pair of
ancient Egyptian lady’s unmentionables. They
were of course attached to a mummy, and were
too suggestive of pipe-stems to be a pleasing sub-
ject for a nineteenth century man to dwell upon.
Besides, the ’Frisco man was very rude to speak
of Miss Vessi’s legs at any price. If criticism
like this is allowed where is it going to stop ? We
must draw the line somewhere, so I’ll draw mine
at Vessi’s ancles, and for the present stay there.
David Buchanan has run his head against the
post —the Telegraph post. He was very fond of
that journal so long as it gratuitously published
his wild lucubrations regarding actors and actresses
whom even the oldest pressmen were ingenuously
supposed by him to be utterly unfit to criticise.
But a change has come o’er the spirit of his dream,
and he now wishes to see the organic remains of
the Barrack and York Streets organ. But I must
still give David credit for the little good he has
attempted to do. He brought in a bill to make
contempt of court tryable by jury, and no one
helped him—not even the Afternoon Alfred.
Alderman Hordern is one of the most practical
members of the Sydney Municipal Council. His
latest good work has been the carriage of a motion
to the effect that the lamp-posts at the inter-
section of our principal streets should bear
placards containing the words “Walk over the
Crossing.” The first night after this had been
tried in the Yictorian capital, Melbourne Punch
saw an inebriate holding on to one of the posts like
grim death, wistfully looking up at the direction,
and piteously exclaiming, “ Only wish I could ! ”
Alderman Hordern might improve on his mandate
by adding to it, in parenthesis, the important
little words, “If able! ”
All Saints, or All Sinners, which ? Those could
scarcely have been all saints who recently kicked
up that free fight for free seats in the Petersham
church. The mandamus man is especially to be
complimented on the manner in which he defends
his allotment against all free-selectors.
Playing at policemen used to be a favourite
game in the good old times when one Henry
Beresford, third Marquis of Waterford, was sowing
his wild oats regardless of expense. It has lately
been revived here by a Mr. Cadman, who may
thank his stars at being let off so lightly as he has
been in one of our police courts.
The members of the Young Men’s Christian
Association should feel very grateful to the Rev.
Thomas Spurgeon for the candid manner in which
he summed them up a few days ago in the Protes-
tant Hall. He told them they wore “ all traitors
before Christ, deserving of hell fire;” and that
“ they should go to Him with ropes around their
necks.” So loving a spectacle could scarcely fail
to prove an interesting one to those who have
already “ Fought the good fight” and “ Died in
the Lordbut it would not be so pleasant for
newjaspirants for bliss. lam quite glad to see
that this promising young preacher has so accu-
ately measured tke pious juvenile parties who
hold themselves up as models. Suppose some-
body were to pull the wrong end of the ropeP
Young Spurgeon’s mixed metaphor recalls a good
story I recentlyread in oneof the papers:—“ 1 Have
you seen Mrs. C. ? ’ ‘ Yes, and since she went in
for the Banting system she has diminished by at
least half.’ ‘ Then she must be charming.’
‘ Not at all; she looks like a cathedral that has
lost all its saints, and preserved all the niches
from which they were taken.’ ” Now, were it
possible for that great orator, Mr. Spurgeon, sen.,
to lose all the imaginative, eloquence which has
made him famous, and to preserve only the con-
fidence which is born of real and long-tested ability,
he would possess little but piety, dollars, and that
valuable article known to us low-bred colonials as
“ cheek.” Spurgeon, jun., is s “ cheeky ” young-
ster, but he may yet learn that though piety, like
wooden-legs, runs in families, every Spurgeon’s
son isn't necessarily a Spurgeon any more than
the man who dishonours bills and dines with
bishops is necessarily an honest citizen. “ Every
Stewart is nae sib to the king,” and the quality of
a'sermon, like that of caviare, depends on the kind
of Spurgeon or sturgeon from which it comes.
Young Spurgeon’s wretched, washy imitations of
his great father’s style make one think of Sothern
junior’s feeble caricature of the old original
Sothern’s Lord Dundreary. Comparisons are
odious. Brains are only hereditary in a physical
sense, and I'm afraid we’ll not get another Napo-
leon from Corsica.
THE WRECK OF THE SUSANNE GODEFFROY.
“ The Marine Board considers that ranch blame
attaches to the Ajax, not only for tardiness in not
responding to the preconcerted signal, which was
hoisted and kept up, it appearing from the evidence
that not any look-out was kept on board during
the time her people were below at breakfast, but
also for not being in readiness for instant action,
as the master and crew had been retained on board
from the previous Monday morning, in anticipa-
tion of her services being required. They also
consider that the judgment of the coxswain of the
life-boat was at fault, and that he should have
gone down to her without hesitation, and had her
out immediately after he had given the signal by
firing the gun, the crew having been previously
assembled, instead of remaining further watching
the movements of the approaching ship. At the
same time they cannot lose sight of the fact that
up to the period of his firing the gun no danger
was apprehended, and that there was no indica-
tion up to this point of her not being a well-
appointed and staunch vessel.” —Newcastle cor-
respondent of the Evening News.
There rode a hulk within a Sydney bay—
An ancient ship all strained and tempest-tom :
For many years deserted, there she lay,
Th’ embodiment of all that is forlorn.
She was a ghostly craft, and oft at night,
’Tis said, that phantoms held high wassail there.
And from her blackened decks in the moonlight
There floated strange sounds through the silent air.
There rumbled through her vast and humid hold
Weird groanings as of mortals in deep pain.
And, oft with bated breath it hath been told.
That corpse-lights glimmered ’bout her rusty chain.
It came to pass that Mammon waved his hand.
And workmen laboured on that craft of sin,
And decked her gay with many a golden band;
All fair without —all rottenness within !
She sailed—a floating grave—passed “ fit and strong ”
By men who took two pounds in English gold;
She sailed —O shame on such a deadly wrong!—
With streams of water pouring in her hold!
• * * ♦ *
Niue days elapsed, when on one clear bright mom,
There staggered ’midst the waves towards the land,
That gilded hulk —the paint from oil her worn,
And Death fast clutching her in his dread hand!
In one short hour the tragedy was o’er —
The coffin-crew all shrieked for help in vain;
Her timbers soon were strewn about the shore—
Brave souls were struggling in the raging main!
They shrieked'for help, and help was very nigh ;
They saw the “ Ajax” and the “ life”-boat there;
No sound came save the angry wind on high—
To rescue them the cowards didn’t dare !
They “ sat and watched” and munch’d their savoury
food;
They watched the ship death-beaten by the waves ;
They “ sat and watched” and smoked in merry mood.
While helpless sailors found their watery graves.
Green laurels round these heroes brows entwine,
That “ sat and watched” that wreck so passing well!
For is not bravery a thing divine ?
And have they not a glorious tale to tell ?
V.


Public Companies
lOMMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
1 SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1843.
Capital, £500,000. Reserve Fund, £525,00q.
Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. K. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs.*Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B,
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; P. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Cobar,
Coolah, Cooma, Copeland (North), Coraki, Coonamble,
Cootamundra, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton,
Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton. Gundagai, Qunnedah,
Gunning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Muswellbrook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Nar-
andera. Orange, Parkes, Parramatta, Penrith, Picton,
Queanbeyan, Quirindi, Eichmond, Shoalhaven, Single-
ton, Tamworth, Taree, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett,
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wil-
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass, Young.
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough and Bockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia :. The Bank of South Australis, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia: National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania ; The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies betond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester '■ The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland: The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London and China.
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
li cf f bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
bo mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED),
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdole, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON,
Resident Secretary.
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Laud and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Queensland insurance company
(LIMITED).
ESTABLISHED, 1862; INCORPORATED, 1866.
The UNDERSIGNED is prepared to accept FIRE
RISKS at LOWEST RATES.
F. LUDLOW VOLLER, Agent.
Post Office Chambers, 112, Pitt-street.
TO LADIES.
JJO YOU WANT STYLE, FASHION,
Elegance, with a due regard to Economy ?
Then pay a Visit to
PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT GOOD, RELIABLE
TWO . BUTTON GLOVES @ 2/6 ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
JJO YOU WANT A STYLISH COSTUME ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT A BEAUTIFUL MANTLE
OR FICHU ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T)0 YOU WANT FINE HOSIERY
From best Makers?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T\o YOU WANT Charming REAL and
IMITATION LACE ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D°
YOU WANT
PARASOLS ?-
Elegant FANS and
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT a Wedding TROUSSEAU?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
T|o YOU WANT
PRESENT?—
a Birthday or Wedding
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S.
TO GENTLEMEN.
D
O YOU WANT SHIRTS (the best value
in Sydney), SIX for Thirty Shillings ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT FASHIONABLE
LINEN COLLARS?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW'S
D
O YOU WANT a Stylish SCARP, TIE,
er BOW?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT a Reliable UMBRELLA P
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
O YOU WANT Good Summer HOSIERY ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT A Fashionable SUMMER
OVERCOAT?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT A PORTMANTEAU
or TRAVELLING BAG?—
Try PEAPES & SHAW’S
D
0 YOU WANT TO KNOW who are the
BEST TAILORS and HABIT MAKERS in
the CITY ?
Try PEAPES & SHAW,
George-street.
Public Companies
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £175,000.
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jeremiah B. Rundle, Esn
William B. Walford, Esq. | William A. Long, Esq.
Moses Moss, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket | Eedfem 1 Glebe.
London Office— lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
'HE MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER;
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial’
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and'
other produce shipped to England for sale.
Australian mutual provident
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman,
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddington, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq*
Robert J. King, Esq. S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr, W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrioe A, Black, F.I.A. ( Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, the most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.'
The Commercial World (Loudon) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
lON PIRE INSURANCE COMPANY.
I Limited.
Chief Office—o, LOTHBURY, LONDON,
Subscribed Capital ... £1,000,000
Paid-up Capital ... 200,000
Reserve Fund ... 50,000
Fire Insurance on every description of Property in
town and country at Lowest Rates.
Losses promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch:
QUEEN CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE STREET
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
lIRST - PRIZE SEWING MACHINES.
At the Sydney International Exhibition of 1879 and
1880, after a contest extending over six months, and the
severest tests yet applied to Sewing Machines in Aus-
tralia, the Judges have endorsed
THE VERDICT OF THE PEOPLE,
and awarded
THE ONLY FIRST PRIZE
for
SEWING MACHINES
to the
NEW DAVIS VERTICAL FEED MACHINE,
on every point.
READ THE AWARD,
" The New Davis Sewing Machine, being a complete
departure from the ordinary style of sewing machines,
possessing all the advantages of such ordinary sewing
machines, and in addition an increased range of work,
with the greatest simplicity of construction, and reduc-
tion in number of working parts, we consider it entitled
to the first place in awards.”
Volumes could express no more than this award, won
by SHEER MERIT in competition OPEN TO THE
WORLD, the opportunity being fully availed of.
Samples of work, and illustrated Catalogues forwarded
post free to any part of the colonies.
Full instructions gratis, and a liberal time payment
system.
Every Machine guaranteed.
B. 0. HOLTEEMANN and CO.,
Sole Agents,
074 George-street, and 24 Pitt-street,
• Sydney. .
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN Mo MINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accoun
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
Blacket and Dayy,
119 BATHUEST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents fob Messes. Tangte Bbos., Bibminqham.
ADVT
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT’S BELLOWS,
t;angte steam pumps.
IBBOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
YY P. WELCH
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outside Venetian.
N.B-—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
: ..
Oriental Blind.
/M
h
s
a
m
$
m
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWO£B
I ACKNOWLEDGED TO BE THE BEST IN THE WORLD
MAM UFA CTURBO BY W. DAVIES &C? COULBUfiH.NA.iI
a
Mm
REMOVAL.
mHE undersigned hare removed their present
business to those centrally-situated premises in
CLARENCE STREET,
nearly facing Barrack-street and the General Post
Office (now in course of completion), where they solicit
a continuance of favours.
D. MITCHELL & CO.,
Wholesale Grocers
And
WINE AND SPIRIT
MERCHANTS.
WH. A R I E L L,
• PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 afu 345 Kent-steeet, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
S T E D M A N,
WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURING CONFECTIONER
AND
NOTED BEIDE CAKE ESTABLISHMENT,
420 (late 440) GEOEGE STEEET,
Sydney.
Wedding Cakes always on band, and made to order
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by experienced hands.
Country and Shipping orders promptly executed.
SYDNEY MEAT-PRESERVING COMPANY
(LIMITED).
Winners of the PIEST PEIZES —Vienna, 1873, and
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
The Company’s MEATS, EXTEACT OF MEAT, and
SOUPS can be' bought at the establishments of —
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circular Quay
Samuel Bennett and Co., grocers, George-street
J. G. Hanks and Co., grocers, George-street
Slocum, Brothers, grocers, Parramatta-street
Sargent and Collie, Macquarie-place
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, George and Market streets
Civil Service Co-operative Society, Pitt-street,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Church-street, Parramatta.
JOHN B. C. MILES, Secretary.
No. 58, Maxgaret-street.


Business Announcements
International exhibition, isso.-
SWALLOW and ARIELL were awarded two First
1 ’rizes for their celebrated Biscuits and Cakes. Sole
iurent, W. H. ARIELL, 343 & 345, Kent-st., 3 doors
j oorth King-st.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1880. GEO.
'BENCHAFT and Co. were awarded Four First Prizes
for their superior Oatmeal and other manufactures.
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent-street.
SWALLOW AND ARIELL’S Superior Refined
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYRUP, in bottles; also
in tins, 2,7, 14, and 231bs each, and in casks of IJ, 2,3,
and cwt. each. Sole agent, W. H. ARIELL, 343,
and 345, Kent-street.
A. M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Powder, Encore Sauce,
and assorted Jams. Special agent, W. H. ARIELL,
343, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors north King-st.
IALING’S MUSIC WAREHOUSE
m
%
ERARD’S PARIS PIANOFORTES
have gained the
TWO FIRST PRIZES
in
THE FRENCH COURT.
Agent; W. H. PALING.
PLEYEL’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
Non-competitive,
BUT UNSURPASSED.
Agent : W. H. PALING.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANADIAN ORGANS
have gained the
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES
OYER ALL OTHERS.
Sole Agent: W. H. PALING.
PALING AND COMPANY'S
RENOWNED PIANOFORTES
have
GAINED ANOTHER PRIZE
for the
FOURTH TIME
at
THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE-STREET,
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET, SYDNEY.
F.AhWtoSoXi
e ly: Watch
Opticians.
•. cApAt C ° V I
$ Hunter Str ££7 .
w <
Gib . ■ '-'■-■j 'Av'* . .-r ' A; pi *.Uie-
fJBICKET SEASON 1880-81.
The cheapest house in town for
CRICKETING GOODS.
Business Announcements
JJOMES FOR THE PEOPLE.
It is difficult to understand why struggling people
continue to pay rent, when for n small advance upon the
amount now going to the landlord, they con in a few
years realise
THEIR OWN FREEHOLD I
for their own profit and that of their families after
them.
The undersigned offers a choice from some
hundreds of well-situated
VALUABLE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS IN
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the suburbs), commencing at
£i CASH,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS of £2,
Giving Immediate Possession,
and will SUPPLY TIMBEE, &c., to those desirous to
Build.
PAYABLE BY TEN SHILLINGS WEEKLY.
For those having no present intention of building,
an undeniable opportunity of immense profit is evi-
denced by the fact of the astounding progress of Bal-
main during the past six years, and it is impossible
that the present chance can ever recur after the working
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKING MEN.
There are no law costs, no compulsion to build or
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed INDISPUTABLE.
ALFEED HANCOCK, Merton Estate and General
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Balmain, near Dick’s
Hotel.
TCTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOE MEECHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Penders, Tiles, and Grates,
Boom and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
ft R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Eetail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEOEGE AND GIPPS STEEETS,
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOEES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Eoad, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesaxe and Eetail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
PEINCE OF WALES HOTEL,
778 GEOEGE STEEET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Haymarket.
GO U N D R Y ’ S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPEESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
Goundry’s Consolidated or Compressed Tea cannot be
adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDEY’S
CONSOLIDATED or COMPEESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a month.
Mr. Cardwell (late Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
commissariat plans.
General Eoberts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Eifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued touseQOUNDEY’S CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLEE and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
OALCLIFF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double-screened ")
17s. Ditto single ditto > Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened 1 XT ..
225. Ditto single ditto j Newcastle,
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, Ac., at current price.
A. B. BLACK.
247 George-street.“
Business Announcements
TVTADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
This Library will be found to contain all the best and
newest works of
FICTION TRAVEL BIOGRAPHY
POPULAR THEOLOGY, &c.,
which are received immediately on publication by mail
and fast ocean steamers.
Arrangements have been made with all the leading
publishers for full supplies of every NEW BOOK of
interest to be sent as soon as published.
In addition to the above will be found
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTERLY REVIEWS.
Subscribers may join at any date, the subscription
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One Set of Books and a
Magazine (exchangeable as often as desired), axe:—
One month, 55.; Three months, 12s. 6d.; Six months
255.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads of Families,—Those subscribers who wish
a larger supply of books than one set at a time are very
liberally dealt with; thus—Two sets of Works may be
taken from the Library at once for THREE GUINEAS.
Books or Periodicals may in all cases be Exchanged
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney.—Subscriptions are received
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors whose stay is short
may even join for a Fortnight, and participate in all the
advantages of yearly members.
To Country Residents, —Special terms have been
made for the benefit of Country Subscribers desirous of
taking a parcel of from Three to Twelve sets at a time,
and the Commissioner for Railways has been pleased to
arrange that Exchanges from HADDOCK’S LIBRARY
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-FOURTH of usual
parcel rates. A card of country terms may be had on
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of some of the NEW
BOOKS now in circulation:
Pipistrelle, by Ouida
Moths, by Ouida
Alan Dering, by Mrs. Fetherstonhaugh
The Story of an Honest Man, by Edmond About,
translated by Bertha Ness
A Modem Greek Heroine
Lady Laura, by Mary Elizabeth Christie
Memoirs of Madame de Remusat
Fair-haired Alda, by Florence Morryat
Second Thoughts, by Rhoda Broughton
The Duke’s Children, by Anthony Trollope
Joan Carisbrooke, by Emma Jane Worboise
Travel and Trout in the Antipodes
In Her Majesty’s Keeping, by Hon. Lewis Wingfield
Mary Anerley, by R. D. Blackmore
The Duke of Albany’s Own Highlanders, by James
Grant
Travels in New Zealand and Australia, by J. C. Craw-
ford
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twain
Poet and Peer, by Hamilton Aidd
Poor Zeph, by author of “ Grandmother's Money”
Random Recollections of an Old Actor, by Fred.
Belton
Roughing it in Van Dieman’s Land, by Edward
Howe
Brazil, the Amazons and the Coast, by Herbert H.
Smith
Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Molesworth
Holidays in Home Counties, by Edward Walford
Memoirs of Catherine and Crauford Tait
Curiosities of the Search Room
Renan’s Hibbert Lectures
Beauty’s Daughters, by the author of “ Phyllis”
A Cruel Secret, by Lola
Wooers and Winners, by Mrs. Linnaeus Banks
Eros: Four Stories, by Sarah Tytler, Lewis Wing-
field, and Miss Butt
Soldiers of the Victorian Age, by C. R. Low
Life of the Prince Imperial of France, by Ellen
Barlee
The Violin Player, by Bertha Thomas
Troublesome Daughters, by L. B. Walford
Glimpses through the Cannon Smoke, by A. Forbes
Memoir of Rev. John Graham,|by his Brother, Rev.
Charles Graham
Caroline Von Linsingen and William 11., by Theo-
philus G. Arundel
Life and Letters of Horace Bushnell
HADDOCK’S SELECT LIBRARY
381 George Street Sydney.
Open from 9 a.m, to 6 p.m.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt's),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery,
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
N
EW REFLECTING LAMPS FOR GAS OR
KEROSENE.
o*o
%
&
\V/a\
FOR LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, &o„
BARWELL AND FISHERS’ DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, Ac.
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MARKET STREET.
Horses and Vehicles
KEAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
H A R V E
WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hat and Engine Streets.
T,
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
1 GLASSO N’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Harrib-stbeet, off George-street,
and — _
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, Ac., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Hanis-street, near Railway Bridge.
Tobacconists
THE GENUINE
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron 4 Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
T® be had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
CAUTION.
THE unprecedented demand caused by the
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
is inducing other manufacturers to make imitations
of our
TIN TAG.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
165 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
J
AMES EYE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
Money
M
ONEY. MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours: 9to 5; every evening, 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TERMS,
Advanced on machinery, Farms, &c., Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows :
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15 » 0 7 8
20 „ „ 010 6
25 „ „ 10 0
30 „ „ 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will lie
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
JjJ - ONEY. MONEY. MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONE YLENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY. 760 George-street, Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
T OANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
1 J moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-streeti next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
J3RINT ING
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “ THF BULLETIN.”;,
®Mert Olchetfaf
Depot in the Colonies.
ADBT
BATS bearing my NAME can be relied on.
The largest and best assorted stock of Cricketing Goods
in Sydney to Select from.
SYDNEY COHEN, Ironmonger,
408, George-street.
JAMES FEMELL AND CO.,
James pemell and go.,
** VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
SUSSEX-STREET,
NEAB THE HAYMARKET.
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 QEORGE-STREET SOUTH, SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION.
Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
n Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
p w Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley, Oats,
Feas. Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,
•Potatoes, &c.
GEOBGE-ST. Sth., SYDNEY.


®gT GRAND SITES FOE ORANGERIES.
CASTLE HILL.
Splendid Block of Improved Land, subdivided into
ELEVEN FARMS,
varying in size from 10 to 15 ACRES,
CASTLE HILL, NEAR PARRAMATTA,
SATURDAY, 16th October.
BATT, EODD, and PUEVIS, have received
instructions fromithe trustees in the METCALFE
(late Whiteside) ESTATE to sell the above, by public
auction,
at PATTEN’S HOTEL, PARRAMATTA,
on
SATURDAY, 16th October, at 3 p.m.
Full particulars will appear in a few days.
Plans and lithographs in course of preparation.
TITLE FREEHOLD. TEEMS EASY.
Solicitors to the Estate,
MESSES. NORTON and SMITH,
From whom particulars as to title may be obtained.
WOODSIDE ESTATE.
WOODSIDE ESTATE. WOODSIDE ESTASE.
Between
Granville and Merrylands Stations,
and HAVING LARGE FRONTAGES TO THE LINE,
Subdivided
into 34 Allotments, each having an area
of about
HALF AN ACRE.
BATT, EODD, and PUEYES have received
instructions to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, October 23rd, at 3 p.m..
THE above very VALUABLE ESTATE.
fronting the RAILWAY LINE and ROADS
ONE HUNDRED FEET WIDE,
and in the immediate neighbourhood of the
residences of Messrs. Holroyd, Docker, Lowe,
and others, while not far distant from PARRA-
MATTA,
offers advantages
to those requiring GOOD VILLA SITES rarely
to be met with.
HIGH LAND. RICH SOIL. BEAUTIFUL SITES.
TITLE FREEHOLD. TERMS EASY.
LARGE SALE PLAN and LITHOGRA.PHS of the
subdivision on view at the ROOMS of the AUC-
TIONEERS.
iS3” Special Train to convey intending purchasers on
Day of SaIe—SATURDAY, 23rd October.
BATT. RODD, and PURVES.
Hunter river agricultural and
HORTICULTURAL ASSOCIATION.
ON THURSDAY, the 14th OCTOBER, 1880,
on the
ALBION GROUND, WEST MAITLAND,
A FLOWER AND POULTRY SHOW WILL BE
HELD.
Entries must be made in writing and lodged with the
Secretary on or before 6 o’clock p.m. on THURSDAY,
7th OCTOBER.
Entrances for Nurserymen, Gardeners, and Amateurs,
free. Entrance for Poultry, Members free. Non-
members must pay one-fourth the amount competed
for.
Schedule of prizes, with regulations, can be obtained
free on application to
THOMAS K. OSBORNE,
Secretary.
fjl O
BUYERS OF LEATHER
AND
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS.
DAVENPORT AND ALCOCK,
TANNERS AND BOOT MANUFACTURERS,
5, Baekack Street,
Sydney.
Tannery and Boot Factory at Marrickville, and Tannery
at St. Mary’s, South Creek.
Davenport and Alcock ask the particular atten-
tion of all buyers of Leather to the acknowledged
superior quality of their tannages. They are prepared
to supply Sole and Dressed Leathers, the very best of
their kind, in any quantities, at very moderate rates.
Boot Manufacturers and Makers requiring Heavy Sole,
will have their requirements promptly met by this firm.
Davenport and Alcock are the largest Tanners
and Boot Manufacturers in New South Wales, and from
the extensive nature of their works and the complete-
ness of their arrangements, are able to execute orders
for Colonial Boots with great dispatch and upon the
most liberal terms. Country Storekeepers would be
simply furthering their own interests by communicating
with D. and A., who will readily furnish price lists,
terms, and all particulars.
Awarded First Prize for Colonial Leathers at
the recent Intercolonial Exhibition and fiirst prizes for
Boots at former Exhibitions.
Awards also obtained for Leathers at the Phila-
delphia and Paris Exhibitions. Hides and Skins are
bought by Davenport & Alcock, who allow full market
values, thus saving commission and other expenses.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH
(Near Hunter-street),
BH E L L Y E
• electro-plater and gilder,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY-
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street)
o
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON’S EXTRACTofSOAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
TRADE MARK
WtMl
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
*
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO„
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E, D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND,
EVER JUDGE BY OUTWARD
APPEARANCES.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY who have heard and read
so much about the
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE
generally look for a grand exterior, and it is not until
they enter that disappointed feelings vanish. They
begin to wonder where they are going, and more par-
ticularly since the opening of
THE SUBTERRANEAN BARGAIN ROOM.
Those who enter thereat and then traverse the main
Arcade floor, the upstairs Show-room, and the Gallery,
say IT IS A REGULAR JOURNEY. So it is ; but
the room is absolutely necessary to carry on our in-
creased and increasing business, and to enable us to
keep in a systematic manner the regular supply of
goods necessary to execute the orders received through
our
NEVER FAILING HOUSE.
FURNISHING GUIDES.
Copies of the Mutiny, Gratis.
Copies of the Monthly Railway Guide, Gratis.
CAMPBELL BROTHER 3
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
I T
IS NOW THE OPINION
That the Exhibition of 1880
IS AT
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
You are not expected to buy what you do not require.
, -so££~yte*wrs'.—
s. /TfirjrtyttAAa'.,
WOLFE’S
■•. • sajjpsssikffiiw
toniC/ BicaxTic, Airri-DysPKFnc,
JMX)
Invigorating Cordial.
Tins nmicinAi. ssrmucff
I» manufactured by llie Proprietor, at BcliWdun, la Hoi* I
land, end U warranted not onl/ pars from over/ Injurious
property sad UvrtdlcnL bal of tin best poadbla quality.
Da •atnamKaary Medicinal properties* la
aaaQf BasS, Cbronlo Sbsmartka, InilpUnt 2rt>r?y,
Qtfti Pl T ?" 1 " eballai Id Amis oa Janm: J
earn sfJelrsetios fe IA#
S2flniBy» # BlafiOorg enfl. Urinary Organs 7
In Mraspfty wlsQur A out* cr Chronfo: Za General 1 jl
JEMAUiO* BocsUh GratOatioa of tbe Stood* laad-
egyata AMMlatloo of Tood, and
v SabanaA Vital Savvy;
in a&nnhedged by flu wbfila Medical Faculty, and at-
*" Aliiflr blgbsal written nnlhoritlet.
fST-Tla aittnUha at Igsnts and purchasers Is Invited
Is tbs MgBStara sal afldrcai of the Proprietor, on tbit
laULnAuXbsOlA Of ibis Medicinal Cordial, embossed
OB tbs Bides of lbs SoUle, u protection apian inferior
lad psnflofrroa Laltalicaa.
i
Office. 22 Bearer Street
NEW-YOJlIf,
(S&SSLj
'ia ?/ez& a/ <3^
<$ < &'
Jjo
'/
wJme'.
/r/w
JUST ARRIVED
ADVT
JUST ARRIVED
NOVELTIES, NOTIONS, ARTICLES OF USEFUL
INVENTION, FANCY GOODS. &c.
TOYS a speciality—every description. We are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Headquarters for PEARL CEMENT for mending
China, Glass, Crockery, Wood, Leather, Ac.
TOOTHACHE TlNCTURE—instantaneous relief in
worst cases.
No trouble to show Goods and fully explain use of each
article.
AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY.
408 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Australian Joint Stock Bank),
AND AT 70 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY.
SYDNEY ELECTION.
ME. ALDERMAN EDWARD HORDERN is a CAN-
DIDATE for the honour of representing SOUTH
SYDNEY in the New Parliament.
Time is money! Therefore it is necessary to
look well to the state of the Clock, aud keep it in order
if you are particular about your business appointments.
If such care is exercised about time, how much more
important is it that you should keep your stomach
right, aud attend to yoxir own condition in order that
& appointments may be kept. Take a hint from a
, aud never be without a suitable ageut by you.
We recommend Kanderson’s Podophylliu Lozenges as
the best and safest aperient known. Price, Is. per box.
Sold Everywhere.— Aim;.
FUN AND FANCY.
To drop an acquaintance—knock him down.
Three degrees of comparison—Broker, broken,
busted.
Dr. Richardson calls alcohol “ The Devil in
solution.”
An alligator laughs when he hears that beauty
is only skin deep.
When you see the thunderclouds is the time to
drink up the milk.
The undertaker is eager to let a man down just
as soon as the doctor gives him up.
The boy who was kept after school for bad
geography said he was spell bound.
Some people seem to sing through the nose just
to save the mouth to grumble with. *
The world owes no man a living, but it gives him
a good breakfast before he is hanged.
“ That’s what beats me,” as the boy said when
he saw his father take the strap down.
The fellow who picked up the hot penny origi-
nated the remark, “All that glitters is not cold.”
A polite man will listen to things he knows all
about, when told by one who knows nothing about
them.
It hurts a man more to sit down on a pin than
on an egg, but nine men out of ten had rather sit down
on a pin.
“ Look not upon the wine when it is red.” It is
suspected that Solomon was interested in the cham-
pagne trade.
Jem Mace has retired from the “ Ring.” Ho
now announces that he is warranted to “ strike ” only
on the “ Box.
A country editor remarked that he “would not
enlarge upon the rascality ” of a rival, as it was impos-
sible to do so.
A funeral passing : and he, an Irishman, when
asked who was dead politely replied, “ The gintleman
in the coffin, sor.”
Never point an unloaded gun at a man for fun.
It is twice as much fun to hit him over the head with
it, and give him some chance.
Recently a man on receiving a doctor’s bill for
medicine and visits, wrote that he would pay for the
medicine and return the visits.
In Sandridge (Vic.) is a cottage called “ Pool ”
cottage, and one next door door called “ Liver” cottage.
It isn’t everybody that sees the joke.
“ See here, Georgie, what a lot of nice little
round stones.” “Yes, mamma,” grumbled Georgie,
“ and not a blessed thing to throw ’em at.”
The dying man called his servant, and said,
“ Sam, I’m dying. I’m going on a long journey.”
“ Nebber mind, massa; it’s all de way down hill.”
A blackfellow up north swallowed a lot of dyna-
mite. He has a bad headache now, but he can stand
around the corners and call a white man anything he
chooses.
A dog will stick by a man, no matter how poor
the man may have become, and no matter if everyone
else has forsaken him. But perhaps the dog doesn’t
know any better.
Many persons who rake through another’s
character with a fine-tooth comb, to discover a fa ult
could find one with less trouble by going over their own
character with a horse-rake.
A subscriber to a south-western newspaper died
recently, leaving four years’ subscription unpaid. The
editor appeared at the grave, and silently, but with deep
emotion, deposited on the coffin “ a palm-leaf fan, a
linen coat, and a thermometer.”
The Trade in Schiedam Aromatic Schnapps
An enormous trade is done in the Australian
colonies in Wolfe’s Schiedam Aromatic Schnapps.
During the last four or five years 50,000 cases have
been imported to these colonies. Ten years ago
M. Moss and Co., of Wynyard Lane, in this city,
the agents for the colonies, imported their first
line of these Schnapps. Having an article whose
excellence was attested by the leading physicians
and scientists of the day, the firm resorted to the
Press to make that excellence widely known. In
every newspaper in every town in the Australian
colonies have M. Moss and Go’s, advertisements
stared the people in the face. The sale grew
steadily. It was stated by the manufacturers
that the schnapps was the purest spirit in
the market, which was confirmed by the leading
physicians of the day. Experience soon demon-
strated this to be a fact, and supplementary evi-
dence was forthcoming in the strongest recom-
mendations of every physician of standing in the
colonies. The demand for the Schnapps increased
every year till now it has reached 50,000 cases. The
sum of .£20,000 was spent in advertising, and, as
every advertisement has to be checked, M. Moss
and Co.’s offices as the post is delivered partakes
somewhat of the appearance of a large newspaper
office. The enormous trade brought imitations
into the market, and the strong hand of the law-
had to be) invoked in order that the maker’s
rights might be maintained. The agents,
M. Moss and Co., got heavy damages and an in-
junction against the parties who sought _ to imi-
tate Wolfe’s celebrated brand. Herewith is given
a fac simile sketch of the exterior of the wrapper
in which Wolfe’s Schiedam Aromatic Schnapps are
done up; and there is also given a fac simile
sketch of the £1 orders which the manufacturers in
Hamburg secretly do up with the wrappers to en-
sure their complete distribution, and further pre-
vent the possibility of a base and injurious spirit
being passed for consumption. A certain number
of these £1 orders are done up in each day’s
packing for the colonies, and they are to be found
sometimes carefully stowed away in the wrapper
or securely fastened beneath the label on the
bottle. These orders are duly honoured byM.
Moss and Co., Sydney, and they are cashed by any
bank in the colonies. At the time of our reporter’s
visit to Messrs. Moss and Co.’s there were orders
for payment from the furthermost point in the
postal communications of the colonies. Professor
Dixon and the leading Sydney physicians attest
A late book is entitled “ Half hours with
Insects.” What a lively time one can have with a flea!
The tongue of a fashionable belle has sometimes
told slander, but the tongue of a church bell never
tolled any.
A handbill announcing a temperance picnic was
conspicuously headed “N. B.” “ Take notice, I sup-
pose,” said a man who stopped to read it, “ Oh, no,”
replied his friend, “ no beer.”
Love grammar—“l court:” I court, an active
verb, indicative mood, present tense, and agrees with
—all the girls in the neighbourhood. A scolding wife
is a noun substantive —seen, felt, and heard.
Daniel O’Connell once successfully defended a
notorious scoundrel who beyond doubt had committed
murder. The public were dissatisfied with the verdict,
and a friend of the great advocate remarked : " O’Con-
nell, that man’s not fit to live.” “Then,” replied
Daniel, “he can’t be fit to die.”
’Tis said that twenty doctors watched o’er Tanner in
his fast
And tended him in a most skilful manner;
’Tis thought now that those doctors must surely have
been Scotch
As twenty of 'em tried to save one Tanner.
A German thus moralises on intemperence; —
“I drink mine lager; den I put mine hand on mine
head, and dere vosh vone pain. Den I put mine hand
on mine body, and dere vosh anoder pain. Den I put
mine hand in mine pocket, and dere vosh noting. So I
jine mit de demperance. Now there is no pain in mine
head, and the pain in mine body vosh all gone avay. I
put mine hand in my pocket, and dere vosh plendy
monish. I vill stay mit de demperance.”
the excellence and suitability of the Schnapps
either as a stimulant or as an article for general
consumption in this climate, and the statistics of
its trade demonstrates the soundness of their
testimony.
An amateur blacksmith conceived the idea of
nailing horseshoes on the hind feet of a mule. The
man’s only son now owns the cools.
A certain Sydney judge was recently at a dinner
party. There was an attractive pudding on the table.
The judge helped himself to a huge lump of it. The
host then pushed the dish towards another gentleman,
and invited him to “ taste his pudding.” “ Pray,” said
the latter, looking first at the judge’s plate and then
at the dish, “ Which is the pudding ?”
He blushed a fiery red,
Her heart went pit-a-pat,
She gently hung her head
And looked down at the mat;
He trembled in his speech.
He rose from where he sat.
And shouted with a screech —
You’re sitting on my hat!”
He was an English priest, heavily in debt. He
sent his Irish servant to the butcher, whose name was
Paul, for some pork, telling her to come to mass as
soon as she had completed the errand. She entered
church just at the moment that the preacher, address-
ing his congregation, exclaimed from the altar, “ And
what said Paul ?’’ Replied she ; “ Paul said it’s just
about time you paid your bill.”


BRIEF MENTION.
No news of the levanter, Evans, yet.
Mice and lies are plentiful at Temora.
David is now safe for a seat—but where ?
Sydney’s prettiest barmaid is off to Temora.
More insurance companies hit in Oxford-street.
What has become of the Goodman testimonial ?
Brass Band contest postponed till next Saturday.
Conveyancers were busy at M'Minn and Twem-
low’s fire.
Carter wants the Order of the Fleece, so that
the Chowder picnic posters will exhibit two honorable
titles. ,
The first thought that strikes the man who
John Hurley’s political manifesto is that the
axis of this earth sticks out wherever John Hurley
walks.
“I am but a little man,” remarked a certain
M I A to a journalist, complacently. “Little in body,
pat mighty in ber-rain!” exclaimed the newspaper man.
And he partook.
rm me morning of Undertakers’ Picnic. Place
Bunch’s corner. Street arab, loq.: “ D’ye see all
them fellers in the coaches ? I wonder which on ’em’s
Shying, as berrid father!”
A sensational marriage is on the
tapis at Parramatta.
The Argus office has changed
fronts— been whitewashed.
The police in Parramatta, while
looking around for unregistered dogs,
found an unregistered child.
The Melbourne Commissioners
never put a handle to the name of any
exhibitor unless he comes from
France.
It is understood that a certain
knight of the “goose,” who was
lately nominated for a certain con-
stituency, re-zions.
Speculations are rife as to the
next recipient of C.M.G., and opinions
are about equal as to whether it will
be Alfred W. Sladen or G. R. Mac-
lean.
A good way of keeping alight
the spark of your expiring credit, is
to “consent to be nominated for a
constituency.” Mark this, ye gee-
bungs.
The pictures in the Melbourne
Art Gallery are “ atrocious’’—even
worse than they are at Sydney. The
Daily Telegraph’s special could not
have had his glasses on.
There is a Chinaman at Padding-
ton who doesn’t know the names of
the vegetables he sells nor of the coins
he gets for them. He trusts to the
•Christians’ honor. He’ll know better
shortly.
A Queensland M.L. A. used such
vehement language at the cattle sale
yards (Brisbane) last week, that the
auctioneer found it necessary to
remind him that he was not in the
Assembly.
We feel justified in' stating that
Mr. G. R. Maclean will not this week
announce himself as a candidate for
any other constituency. Possibly
atn® distant date, however, he
will canvass the Bathurst - street
Column.
At a fashionable church lately,
the clergyman, instead of reading the
thanksgiving for rain, began the
pray or for fair weather, then ran into
the thanksgiving for plenty, and fin-
ished up with an extemporaneous
effusion.
An ex-convict at Emerald
(Rockhampton) the other day on be-
ing offered a job to help in carting
wood at 20s a week and rations, turned
away with the remark that sugar
planting at St. Helena (the Brisbane
prison) was preferable.
The number of free passes to
Melbourne International is enormous.
The pretexts on which they are issued
are often flimsy enough. A youth
given to boating exhibits some medals
which he has won for rowing, and on
the strength of these exhibits he of
course has obtained a free pass avail-
able daring the whole season.
Many of the poor civil servants
in Queensland, besides being obliged
to have recourse to co-operative
store-keeping to eke out a scanty sub-
sistence, have now turned their resi-
dences into boarding-houses. Poor
civil servants, and poor country that
compels its servitors to have re-
course to such means of support,
when, if they were properly remuner-
ated for their arduous labor, they
might live as gentlemen.
The “Yicar” said on Sunday
morning that “Religion was now so
respectable, if not quite fashionable,
that,” &c. Just so, and so much
fashionable that in some churches
we know of, we see a complete contra-
diction of Christ’s statement—“ The
poor ye have always with you." They
■can’t be seen in them.
Thus the Cumberland
Mines :—Mr. J ohn Davies said that
•at the request of the committee he
would, with extreme pleasure, ask
the company to drink success to
the Railway Department, coupled with
the name of the Minister for Works.
This is too high. Fancy a man who,
as an 1.0.G.T., a S. of T., a—every
•other letter of the alphabet before T.,
has taken endless oaths to discourage
drinking, doing such a thing as this !
But it is not the first time that John
has been charged with forgetting his
David Buchanan will (if he get into Parliament
again) submit a bill (sketched by him at Monday
night’s meeting) to deal with contempt of Court and
contempt of David Buchanan by the Press.
A sportsman must have written a tale in one of
our “ comic ” journals. He says—“ Lord Porcelaine
moreover had managed to win a race on a horse Owen
had haclccd heavily against.” Billy Freeman is evidently
not on the staff.
Next door to an hotel within 20 miles of Sydney
is a poultry and fresh butter shop. On the side of the
wall is conspicuously written —“To the Bor.” Up to
1 o’clock on Sunday morning you can, it is said, be
supplied with tripe and sucking-pig, &c., and a “ long
Trickett’ ’ given in.
We extract this from an evening contemporary :
—“ Notice.—Any person harbouring a little black boy,
named ‘ Bourgoubo,’ indented to me, who strayed from
my place October 1, will be prosecuted according to law,
if not delivered to me by October 9. J. Hagen, 32l
George-street." Who would harbour a boy with a
name like that ?
At a fashionable dinner party given by an emi-
nent bank manager in the Wanganui district, N.Z., the
other day, a waiter, improvised for the occasion, was
the cause of a scene. A maiden lady of uncertain age,
but [decided primness, languidly asked if he had any
more lemonade. With commendable briskness, but un-
pardonable familiarity, he replied, “ Any mortal quan-
tity, my dear.” The lady shrieked, and the host rose
in his might and bode the waiter depart to the regions
below.
Gamer doesn’t want money. He gives the
people opera.
The stables for the iron-horse at Randwick are
now completed.
Mr. J. P. Garvan announces his intention of
contesting Eden. He needn’t.
David Buchanan is bidding hard for lodgings in
the Macquarie-street Gasworks.
The Moruya Liberal and the Moruya Ex-
aminer have quarrelled. And still the world goes
round.
At a low church in one of the eastern suburbs,
out of a choir of 24, there is only one alto. Altogether
too base.
When Judge Windeyer arrived at Dubbo, his
first question to gallant Gibson was —“ Where is the
triumphal arch ? ’’
The Free Selectors’ Conference turns out to be
self-appointed delegates respecting, suh rosa, large
dummying land owners.
Cave Cane-m! There can be little doubt_ that
George Johnson purposed doing the_ block with a
vengeance when he stole those 20 walking-sticks from
Mr. Edward Hordern.
The man who thinks he would make a splendid
Minister for Education—Sammy Lees. The genius
who wants to “ reform it all together” —G. R. Maclean.
The prophet who will electrify the house with the fire
of invective—J. A. Dowie.
In one column of the Zigzag papers the follow-
ing rare quotations appear:—“ Hardly ever,” and
“ Oh, wad some power the giftie gle us
To see ourselves as ithers see us.”
The S. A. Minister of Education used to sell tripe,
and, what’s more, he’s not ashamed to own it. We know
certain “geebungs” in this city who used to sell com-
moner things than tripe, and yet, when reminded of it,
they cough behind their hands and ask you if you have
heard Proctor.
A Gundagai man wrote to the local editor thus:
—“ We like your paper, because it gives the news of the
colony, but then we like to read about them Divorces,
and the letters is capital fun. I know 2 people who
would take in your paper if you printed them cases.”
The virtuous editor declined.
Western Champion records the follow-
ing stock movements: —A mob of sixteen Kanakas
passed through Blackall on Wednesday from Ruthven
Station, bound for the nearest port. They were in
prime store condition, and show evidence o£ careful
treatment on the part of the driver in charge.
“ The Press is the growing intellectual power
of the universe,” so says Wendell Phillips, the great
American orator. Speaking of the advantages of moral
over physical force m battling for political rights, he
says: “ For me, in America, this land of newspapers,
with ten millions of sheets printed every day and scat-
tered to fifty millions of people, forty millions of whom
can read for me, an appeal to common sense and
justice is the strongest and most lasting that can be
made.”
Arthur Sketchley lost .£4OO in Australia, yet
when he went home he weighed 24 stone.
At Maryborough (Q.) there is great trouble
between the allopaths and the homoeopaths.
There is no truth in the rumour that Hanley
Bennett will be opposed by the “ Iron Man.”
A hymn that should be sung with success now
in Newcastle —“ Man the Life Boat, sailah! ”
The statement published by us the other day to
the effect that a well-known lawyer had got into gaol was,
it now appears, premature.
Some allege that the Bermagui rush is a duffer;
others say it isn’t. May dufference of opinion never
alter friendship. [Lewis Scott wrote this].
Thursday’s Alfred :—“ Dear Rachel, —The
Orphan will see you to-night. Jogger.” Rachel,
Rachel, how orphan hast thou seen thy Jogger ?
While Mr. Milner Stephen is in Melbourne
healing Prank Warden will be souling. Appropriately
enough Frank performs at the St. George’s Awl.
Dr. George On Lee, by advertisement, cautions
the public against another Chinese, who is practising
in his name. The doctor is the On Lee Chinese
practitioner in Sydney.
It is rumoured that in view of possible Parlia-
mentary enquiry as to amount of “ secret service
money expended, the detectives commissioned to
report on Mr. Bright’s lectures have been instructed
henceforth to take three-pennyworth in the pit.
John M‘Elhone has taken to wearing spec-
tacles —
Who’ll grudge the man these additional glasses.
Whose diction the genius of Grattan surpasses ?
A seaman on board H.M.S. Wolverene has lately
been sentenced to twelve months’ imprisonment for
stealing an entire bottle of whiskey, valued at about 9d.
No duty is paid by the brave. It would be interesting
to know what would be done to him if he murdered the
captain.
In Yass the aldermen have a habit of challenging
one another to come outside the Chambers while they
fet “stouched.” At their last meeting, alderman
[owell requested alderman Wood to come outside and
have his nose smashed and be otherwise disfigured so
that his mother would not know him.
As an instance of the eternal fitness of things
we may mention that the younger sister of the Baroness
Coutts is one Miss Money. And that reminds ns that
when entreated by the Queen to relinquish her project
of marriage the Baroness remarked “that she would
have him Coutts qui Coutts.” This is almost French.
In a leader in the Penny Placard, Mr. Waters
says:—“ We look upon the payment of members and the
latest reform proposals of Mr. Berry as the indirect
means which will ultimately kill Berryism." This is,
to say the least, an expanding statement, —when, as
everybody knows, it is only by “ feeding the vultures ”
that Mr. Berry has acquired his majority. "Ulti-
mately," however, is rather a vague expression. We
are sorry to have our hands “ once more upon the
Waters.”
We have heard less from Sirenree lately about
“ the principles underlying the constitution.”
Red rum, spelt backward, makes murder. This
is ominous. Queensland has much to account for.
Says Hughey Taylor, if another member they appoint,
’Twill be a sign the times are very much out of joint.
Now Angus has taken to long coats of black,
The working men say they will give him the sac.
The “ Rev.” Peter Campbell has arrived —
“ Moravians, arise!
Bestow some meet reward on dull devotion.”
“ A mangle for sale, cheap.” We call the atten-
tion of the hon. member for to this adyt. He will
possibly soon be looking out for a billet.
David Buchanan writes to the Daily Tele-
graph to say “ that when he entered the Parliament it
thereupon began to lose its high intellectual standard."
On leaving the Egyptian Hall the other night
a facetious “ commercial gentleman,”in taking leave of
the man woman, cried out, “ Good bye, you giddy girl."
Mr. District Court Judge Wilkinson has ruled
that gambling on the Rand wick racecourse is not illegal,
having quashed the conviction against Thomas Lamon.
This will be good news to the “ talent.”
Any day in the harbour you can see smart young
girls sculling young men about until their pompadours
“run” with the exertion. Yet, if you asked any one
of these charming young creatures to blacklead the
family grate she would brain you with a flat-iron.
Withers is wrung about the
Kenny water scheme.
In 1900 North Queensland will
either be an independent colony or a
Chinese settlement.
Fowler’s joke—to ask the Gov-
ernment to get Moriarty to report on
Gipps’ water schemes.
A constable at Watson’s Bay is
called White White and one at Dar-
linghurst Slack White. So that white
is black sometimes, after all.
Why don’t all the school-
masters who have letters at the end
of their names put their colleges after
them ? It would look so much better.
There is a facetious journalist
in this city, who, when he owes his
landlady two pounds, becomes “ bored
with residence.” Is this new ?
If Kelly could have caught that
scandalous fellow on Thursday last,
he would have convinced him what a
dangerous Trickett was to Bush and
Pearce an opponent’s boat.
When Ada Page was asked by
the Bench last Thursday what she
had to say to a charge of stealing a
pair of boots, she cried— *• I’m inno-
cent, upon my sole.” One month.
The Johnsonian Club (Brisbane)
is in its third year. It is a “ going
concern.” And so any one would say
if they caught Judge Paul, Gresley
Lukin, Dr. O’Doherty, and a few more
kindred spirits at supper.
When Jane Brown was, on
Wednesday last, sentenced by the
Bench, the clerk of the Court in
reading the sentence said “ three
months in Janes. Next case.” His
skull is as yet nnclef t. But no matter.
Camden now has a news-
paper—The Times. The editor, in
his first issue, modestly says:—“We
hopeto be the ‘avant conreur ’ (sic!) of
a great and powerful newspaper such
as our London namesake, and there-
fore,” &c.
At the 1 instance of the Czar of
Cant-erbury they are drafting in an
act to suppress retail Sunday trading
in seats by lecturers. Wholesale Sun-
day trading in seats (in church halls
built on uutaxed land granted by the
State) is still to be allowed.
Jim Greenwood for East Sydney,
to go in is pretty sure, and Roberts
too, and Renwick—and we dare say
Charley Moore; but “pretty,” “phil-
anthropic ” Lees ought certainly to
know that with Bast Sydney “gee-
bungs ” never have the faintest show.
George (who has been married
about a week) returned home one
evening and, wishing to surprise his
wife, crept stealthily in to the bed-
room behind her and placed his hands
over her eyes. He was rather taken
aback when she exclaimed “ Oh ! don’t
John!” She explained that she
thought it was her brother. Queens-
land fact.
The Minister for Public Instruc-
tion has ordered that all Public
School teachers in Sydney are to re-
side close to their schools. There are,
therefore, growls, not loud, but deep,
and certainly it is not a pleasant
prospect to have to leave the salu-
brious atmosphere of Burwood,
Waverley, or Forest Lodge for the
pestiferous locality of Woolloomooloo,
Sussex-street, or Miller’s Point.
Taylor, the first elected Mayor of
Paddington, as the inscription on the
Council Chambers tells us, says that
the personnel of the Municipal Council
gets worse at every election. The
ratepayers say that the streets get
worse too, and the cows that are
allowed to dig up the footpaths get
more numerous. It is only in a few
streets that it is safe to walk after
dark, unless you know where the
Aldermen own property.
The City Improvement Board
have reported that they have no power
to deal with the “ insanity " of dwel-
lings. This is certainly not right.
Think of any one having to live in a
house with “ homicidal ” tendencies,
or in a shop troubled with “ klepto-
mania.” And yet there appears to be
a contradiction somewhere, for a
“cracked” house, a “crazy” tene-
ment or an “ unsound ” building,
clearly come under their review. Ask
Back-house.
A gentleman from New Caledonia had lately to
call at the Sydney Mint, and was not too civilly
treated. On his return to Noumea he was asked what
he thought of Sydney. “ One thing,” he answered, “ I
found perfect—mint sauce."
The other day a political requisition was brought
to a place where a number of Corporation labourers are
employed. The overseer cautioned the men against
signing it, remarking that, if they did, they’d probably
“lose their billets ! 11
This is from the last issue of The Express :
“ The Nun of Kenmare thinks that the agitation which
exists in Ireland cannot be removed until the cause
which produces it is taken away." Now, we don’t know
who “The Nun of Kenmare” is, but anyone can see
she has been studying Whately.
In addressing the South Sydney electors on
Pridayllast, Mr. Bogie said * * “ Whilst Government
clerks, who had little to do all day, were seen in kid
gloves in George-street in the afternoon.” There
needs no Bogie—we mean ghost—to tell us this. No
offence; but we couldn’t resist the chance of the
Shakesperiau quip.
Forensic Joseph was defending a female client
the other day at the W.P.C. on a charge of having
adopted a pair of boots, a box-iron, and Is. 6d, in specie.
In his address to the Bench the lawyer was quite car-
ried away by enthusiasm. “Your Worships,” he cried,
in a voice trembling with emotion, “ I ask you, as a
duty yon owe to society, to discharge this lady—to set
her once more free as the air we breathe —as the birds
that wing their serial flights ’neath the cerulean.
"REMIT THE INTEREST!"


QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings, and Greville.
Stage Manager Mr. H. H. Vincent.
TENTH NIGHT
of the Beautiful and and Accomplished Artiste,
LOUISE POMEROY.
THIS NIGHT (Thursday),
the Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter in the
Life of
CAMILLE.
CAMILLE (one of her greatest
characters) LOUISE POMEROY.
SATURDAY, Oct. 16,
the emot’onal Society Drama, expressly written
for Miss Pomeroy,
RETRIBUTION; or, LOVE’S ATONEMENT.
Supported by the principal members of the
MELBOURNE THEATRE ROYAL COMPANY
Prices of admission—Dress circle 3s, stalls 2s, pit Is.
Box office at Messrs. Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
T
HEA T R E
Lessee
ROYAL.
Mr. Samuel Laser.
THIRTY-SECOND WEEK IN SYDNEY,
and
SIXTY-NINTH WEEK IN THE AUSTRA-
LIAN COLONIES,
of the
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, 14th OCTOBER,
The performance will commence, at 8 o’clock, with
Gilbert’s grand (satirical Comedy, entitled
PYGMALION AND GALATEA,
concluding with Broughton’s successful Comedietta,
WITHERED LEAVES;
or, the
FAIRY OF THE GLEN.
FRIDAY, Oct, 15 BETSY.
SATURDAY, Oct. 16, Albery’s comedy, TWO ROSES.
Prices of Admission; Dress circle, ss; stalls, 3s;
family circle, 2s ; pit. Is.
Seats in the dress circle can be secured, and stall
tickets obtained, at Elvy’s, George-street.
Tickets for all parts of the house can now be obtained
during the day at Lloyd’s Hotel, Castlereagh-street,
next Theatre.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
10 THE ELECTORS OF SOUTH SYDNEY.
Gentlemen, —I have the honour of placing before yon
a brief statement of my political opinions.
I am firmly in favour of maintaining intact the
present Act providing for Public Education.
I am not in favour of allowing the Free Selectors, be
they rich or poor, to repudiate their obligations to the
State, and by so doing strike a heavy blow at our future
credit and prosperity, and at the same time saddle the
people of the cities and towns with a large additional
taxation to make good the default of their country
neighbours.
I am in favour of railway extension generally, wher-
ever it can be shown upon reliable information that the
extension asked for would, after paying working
expenses, yield also a fair interest on the outlay. The
construction of common roads and bridges throughout
the country should be left, as in the city and its
suburbs, to the local energy and resources of the people
who require them, assisted by a proportionate grant in
aid from the Government.
I am in favour of free trade as a general principle, yet
I think that the Government in accepting tenders for
the [supply of railway and other material and plant,
should be encouraged to lean towards the local manu-
facturing industries now struggling to maintain a
footing amongst us.
I am not in favour of continuing immigration largely
at the expense of the State, for I consider the time has
arrived when, for various important reason s, the pro-
portion paid by the State should be sensibly reduced,
or altogether discontinued.
I am altogether opposed to the introduction of large
numbers of Chinese or other Asiatic races into this
country; for it is neither just nor wise to subject our
own race to a competition for existence upon such
unequal terms ; the Asiatic, untrammelled as he usually
is by the obligations of bread-winner for wife or family,
and with the constitution and habits of his race, being
able to live on as many pence per day as it costs the
Briton shillings.
I look upon the present mode of granting licenses for
the sale of intoxicating liquors altogether bad and in-
defensible, and shall esteem it a high honour to have my
name associated with any practical measure calculated
to diminish the evils flowing from the existing system,
and which would at the same time protect the legiti-
mate and straightforward trader.
The supply of water to the city and its rapidly-
increasing suburbs is a matter of urgent and weighty
importance. I cannot understand why the Government
seem determined to construct the main storage reser-
voir at Prospect instead of at or near Campbelltown ;
for. in order to get to Prospect, the level of supply must
needs be reduced about 200 ft, while at the same time
the neighbourhood of Campelltown offers equal, if not
superior, facilities to those afforded by the site selected
at Prospect for the construction of the main reservoir,
and, moreover, the supply line from Campelltown to
Sidney would practically be a direct line, and 13 miles
miles shorter than that via Prospect.
Surely, if the Government carry out their determina-
tion, it will be allowing the water to run down the hill
with a vengeance —simply, I presume, for the sake of
the pleasure of pumping it up again. Should you hon-
our me with your confidence this is a matter I will look
closely into.
I am in favour of a liberal reservation and dedication
of land for the recreation and enjoyment of the people
generally throughout the country.
I am, Gentlemen, faithfully yours,
W. T. POOLE,
Eedfern, October 1,1880.
EW SOUTH WALES BRICK MANUFAC-
TURING COMPANY.
To be Registered under the Limited Liability
Company’s Act.
CAPITAL, bio,ooo, in 10,000 SHARES of Ml EACH
(With power to increase),
OF WHICH 4500 HAVE ALREADY BEEN
APPLIED FOE.
2s. 6d. to be payable on application, 2s. 6d. on allot-
ment, and the balance in calls of 2s. 6d. per Share,
at intervals of not less than Two Months.
Directors :
JOHN BDGLEY, Esq., Surry Hills."
DAVID ELPHINSTONE, Esq., Glebe (President of
the Builders’ Association).
JAMES B. ELPHINSTONE, Esq., Glebe.
DAVID WILSON, Esq., Spring-street (Mason Bros.).
ALDERMAN WITHERS, Esq':, J.P., Surry Hills.
Bankers•
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Solicitor :
Mr. STEPHEN C. BROWN.
Secretary anh Managing Engineer :
Mr. HARRY MOUUN.
Offices ;
No. 7, POST OFFICE CHAMBERS (next to Mills,
Pile, and Gilchrist), Pitt-street, Sydney.
Shares will be allotted in the order of application,
but should no allotment be made the money will be
returned in full.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association will be
submitted to the shareholders for approval before re-
gistration.
Application for shares, with a deposit of 2s 6d per
share, to be addressed to the Directors of the New
South Wales Brick Manufacturing Company, limited,
at their offices. Post Office Chambers, Pitt-street,
Sydney, where Prospectuses, Forms of Application,
and all other informatian may be obtained.
Office Hours, 10 to 12 o’clock.
|J EOGEAMMe
DOUBLE BAY AMATEUE EE GATT A
OCTOBER 30. 1880.
Patron;
The Hon. TAMES WATSON, M.L.A.
President:
The Hon. JOHN MARKS, M.L.C.
Vice-Presidents:
JOHN MACKINTOSH, Esq., M.L.A.
WM. LAIDLEY. Esq.
W. J. TRICKETT, Esq., Mayor of Woollahra.
Committee:
Arthur Allen
W. G. Anslow
E. Ashdown
A Beckett
Alfred Bennett
F. Bremer
W. A. Brodribb
George Cheeke
R. A. Clarke
D. G. G. Commons
H. G. Doyle
H. L. Evans
J. E. Fairfax
S. D. Gordon
John Grey
C. T. Gedye
J. Henniker Heaton
J. F. Jackson
E. Knox, jun.
T, F. Kroz
F. C. Logan
T. Marshall
W. Mason
W. L. Merrywether
C. Newton, jun.
John Newton
F. Prendergast
F. Eae
W. H. Eeadett
W. Rovery
E. P. Simpson
A. J. Sontar
Geo. Startin
W. C. Stafford
J, Want
Hon. Treasurer : W. G. ANSLOW'.
Hon. Secretary: W. C. STAFFORD.
Jndgeof Sailing Races: H. C. DOYLE.
Judge of Rowing Races: W. G. ANSLOW.
Starter of Sailing Races: W. J. TRICKETT,
Starter of Rowing Races : R. A. CLARK.
Umpire: L. 6. J. BENNETT.
FIRST RACE.
To start at 1.30 p.m.—Yachts exceeding 8 tons, handi-
capped. Course; From moorings, Double Bay, round
R.S.Y.S. bnoy at Manly, round flagship, round light-
ship and Sow and Pigs, and back to flagship. Entrance,
£1 Is. Prize, £2O.
SECOND RACE.
To start at 1.30 p.m.—Third-class Yachts, not exceed-
ing 8 tons, handicapped ; amateur crews. Course same
as No. 1. Entrance, 15s. Prize, £l2.
THIRD RACE.
To start at 1.45 p.m.—For Residents of Double and
Rose Bays and Woollahra who have never won an ad-
vertised prize; single sculls, in licensed watermen’s
skiffs. Three starters or no race. Course: From
Double Bay round Clarke Island and back to flagship.
Entrance, ss. Prize, £5.
FOURTH RACE.
To start at 2 p.m.—Open Boats, centre-board, under
canvas, not exceeding 24 feet in length, noteless than
7 feet beam, 3 feet deep. Any crews. Course same as
No. 1. Entrance, 15s. Prize, £lO.
FIFTH RACE.
To start at 2.15 p.m.—Dingies under canvas, not
exceeding 16 feet in length, 5 feet beam, and 30 inches
depth. Amateur crews. Course: From moorings.
Double Bay, round Fort Denison, round flagship, round
Shark Island, round Fort Denison, round flagship,
round Clarke Island, and back to flagship. Entrance,
7s. 6d. Prize, £7.
SIXTH RACE.
To start at 2.30 p.m.—Maiden Single Sculls, open to
members of Rowing Clubs, in club skiffs, fixed seats.
Course: Prom Double Bay pier round Clarke Island
and back to flagship. Entrance, ss. Special prize pre-
sented by J. Henniker Heaton, Esq.
SEVENTH RACE.
To start at 2.46 p.m.—Open and HaH-deck Boats, 20-
feet and upwards, under their ordinary cruising sails.
Crews limited to four amateurs. Time allowance, I
minute per foot. Course: From moorings, Double-
Bay, round R.S.Y.S. bnoy at Manly, round Clarke Island
and back to flagship. Entrance, 10s. Special prize pre-
sented by W. Laidley, Esq.
EIGHTH RACE.
To start at 3 p.m.—Skills under canvas, not exceeding
19 feet in length, 5 feet beam, and 20 inches depth.
Amateur crews. Time allowance, 1$ minute per foot.
Course : Same as No. 6. Entrance, 7s 6d. Special prize
presented by J. H. Want, Esq.
NINTH RACE.
To start at 3.15 p.m.—All skiffs, 18 feet and under.
Amateur crews. Course : From moorings in Double
Bay, round lightship and Sow and Pigs, round flagship,
round Clarke Island, and back to flagship. Entrance,
7s 6d. Special prize presented by J. Gardyne, Esq.
TENTH RACE.
To start at 3.30 p.m.—Senior Members of Rowing
Clubs, in club skiffs, double sculls, with coxswain.
Course: Prom flagship round Shark Island, and ba«k
to flagship. Entrance, 10s. Prize, Trophies.
ELEVENTH RACE.
To start at 3.45 p.m.—All-canvas Sailing Boats, not
exceeding 15 feet. Time allowance, 1 minute per foot.
Course: From flagship, round Clarke and Shark
Islands, and back to flagship. Entrance, 2s 6d, Prize,.
Trophy.
TWELFTH RACE.
To start, at 4 p.m.—All Comers, in light skiffs, single
sculls. Three starters or no race. Entrance 10s.
Prize, £lO. Course, same as No. 10.
THIRTEENTH RACE.
To start at 4.15 p.m.—Junior Members of Rowing
Clubs, in club skiffs, with coxswain, double sculls.
Course, same as for Ne. 6. Entrance, 10s. Prize,
Trophies.
FOURTEENTH RACE.
To start at 4.30 p.m.—Members of Rowing Clubs who
have never won a senior oar race at a public regatta, im
string-test gigs, fonrs. Course, from Double Bay Pier,
round Clarke and Shark Islands, and back to flagship.
Entrance, £l. Prize, Trophies.
FIFTEENTH RACE.
To start at 4.45 p.m.—For Members of the Alexandria
Literary Institute, in skiffs, double sculls. . Course,
same as No. 6, Entrance, 10s. Prizes, special; pre-
sented by W. J. TRICKETT, Esq., MAYOR «
Woollahra.
Rowing races to bo under New South Wales Rowing
Association Rules.
Sailing races to be under New South Wales National
Regatta Rules.
Moorings will be laid for all sailing races except 1,
and 7.
Entrances will be received at Aaron’s Exchange
Hotel, on SATURDAY, 23rd iust., at 8, and will close-
at 9.30 p.m.
ICENSED VICTUALLERS’ ASSOCIATION.
GRAND ANNUAL PICNIC.
Under the Patronage of his Worship the Mayor.
to take place at F. Smith’s Sir Joseph Banks Hotel,
Botany, on WEDNESDAY, 20th October, 1880.
Tickets may be had of the following Members of the
Council:—C. Kelsey, J. E. Kelsey, J. Apted, E. Tremain,
F. Smith, S. Hodge, H. G. Rowell, W. Walker, W.
Sharman, T. Curran, J. D. Young, and J. B. Olliffe.
JIREETHOUGHT PLATFORM.
THEATRE ROYAL,
SUNDAY EVENING, OCT. 17, 1880.
COURSE of 26 LECTURES,
INTRODUCTORY.
' Mr. CHARLES BRIGHT
Will deliver a LECTURE
entitled:
“SCIENCE: the FOE of ORTHODOXY,
THE FRIEND
of
FREETHOUGH T.”
Doors open at 7. Commence at 7.30. Sittings a-
Course Tickets on sale at Messrs. Turner and Hen-
derson’s, Hunter-street.
canopy—as the merry marsupials that gambol o’er the
verdant sward. Would you take away the liberty of a
mother on account of a trivial misunderstanding about
a pair of boots, a—pah ! —a box-iron, and (indignation,
S’entlemen, nearly chokes me) the paltry price of six
ongbeers? Never! no, never, your Worships, never!”
Then Joe sat down, and the woman, who had been
chewing the comer of her red shawl during the advo-
cate’s eloquence, was let off —with three months.
The King of Scot(t)s —Mr. E. Lewis Scott — was
“ serenaded 7 ’ at Petersham, the other night, by the
local band. Lewis wore an embroidered nightcap
when, arrayed in the snowy robes of night, he put his
head out of the window to acknowledge the “ compli-
ment.” People round about thought it was a case of
tin-kettling.
Thus the Hekka Elizabeth Church was
apprehended by constable Farrell at two o’clock in the
morning, and charged by him with having no lawful
means of support. Failing to show that she has means,
she was sentenced to bo imprisoned three months.”
Not the only “ Church ”in the same condition. Prank
Warden, please copy.
Mr. Russell Barton is a candidate for Bourke.
An elector asks him, through the columns of the Cen-
tral Australian, a series of questions, of which the
following is a sample :—“ If it requires ten Chinamen
to cultivate a piece of ground, and two wives are allowed
to every three Chinamen, how many wives will have to
be provided for the ten ? ”
In regard to the (wreck of the barque Susanne
Godeffroy and the attendant lifeboat fiasco, doesn’t it
strike people thpt it was very unkind to require Capt.
Allan, the harbourmaster at Newcastle, to preside at an
inquiry into what was practically his own case ? The
judge-in-your-own-case-and-arbitrary-authority-system
seems to be extending.
Bob Jugerson boasts that he has “ defied the
Almighty for years.” This reminds one of the reply
made at the Savage Club by an ex-clergyman, named
Barton, to poor Tom Robertson, who was indulging
in a somewhat similar kind of idle talk. “You for-
get, Tom,” said Barton, ‘ that the Almighty is capable
of infinite contempt as well as of infinite justice.”
Tamworth wants a member, manly;
Tam worth’s had enough of Hanley;
Tamworth says the reason’s well—
They want a membah who can spell.
They’ll no more “ bald-headed stammer,”
Tamworth shrieks aloud for grammar.
So, if you get in again, Hanley, you’ll
Just have to go “ agin ” to school.
The other day, an organ-grinder, while playing
in York-street, was ordered by a policeman to stop so
as to allow the German band to play at the P. O. Hotel.
This got his Italian blood up. He swore a few. Then
he waited till the band started to play, and went up
close to them and played too. A great crowd gathered
round them and enjoyed the fun. The Italian gained
the day. Lungs get tired; machines don’t.
It’s a grand thing to be a newspaper scribe.
A certain Sydney paper has now on its staff at least one
full-grown man, who regularly devotes nine or ten hours
a day to its service and is paid at the rate of twenty
shillings per week. This is a fact, and yet people
wonder how libels occur. The paper referred to doesn’t
favour the employment of Mongolians; nor is it likely
to do so while “ white niggers ” can be had for a sov.
a week.
J. H. E. in the vespemal Steak Wrap sings as
follows:
Mother, I have heard sweet music.
Not like that we sometimes hear;
But so full of tender feeling.
Coming forth so soft and clear.
This, we feel inclined to say with the sewing-machine
bard in the Referee, is something like Macaulay,
though it isn’t quite so good.
What a country! what a people ! “ About
12,000 persons visited Flemington course, on Saturday,
to hear the Austrian Strauss Band. Most of the visitors
went by rail, but there was a large number of carriages.
The Governor was present. An excellent programme
was provided, and the music was much enjoyed. Only
forty-five members of the band performed, as the others
present were unable to get their instruments out of
bond.” Ha! ha! Protection and the fine arts.
The Australian (Brisbane) says that if a
certain article was written by Meston, then “ he is the
lowest scoundrel in Brisbane.” The same paper calls
another gentleman “ Paudeen-na-Soggarth." An Irish
interpreter is wanted on our staff to translate the
articles in the E.C. “religious” journals. An intelli-
gent Englishman can also find employment at this office
in scoring out blasphemy, obscenity, bad grammar, and
vulgarisms in general from other “holy” papers.
An organ-grinder, accompanied by a monkey
(by far the better looking of the two), after performing
three or four solos on his instrument of torture before
the residence of an irate member of the Government,
asked for alms through the open window. When the
Minister (who was mad with gout) had refused indig-
nantly the organ-man cried, " Why, how do you expect
me to live then ?” “ I don’t expect any such thing,"
replied the Minister. The organ-man then vanished
into space.
The chief adviser of the Minister for Lands, Vic.,
is an individual of tie “ Deacon Skinner” character.
This party, like Mr. Richardson himself, is a lay
preacher, and lectures against the terrible evils of the
“ flowing bowl.” He appears to have obtained carte
blanche from the Minister to raddle the victims who are
to be slaughtered, and yet his own office and staff, which
escape, are said to be over-officered, over-manned, and
useless beyond anything to be found in any other part
of the Civil Service.
While a little black boy named Joseph York was
being tried at the Quarter Sessions, the jury in another
case come in, and little Joe was told to sit down. The
verdict of the incoming jury was “guilty,” and Judge
Dowling asked the prisoner, a stalwart young horse-
stealer, if he had anything to say. On this the black
hoy jumped up and cried out, “ This fellow got um
plenty talk. Here, you wig feller, jaillum no good—
Phillum William no good—catch up black feller —I
want to go away.” He was acquitted.
The following suspicious-looking paragraph
appears in the Hobart Town Mercury:—“Singular
Accident. —We regret to learn that the respected
clergyman at Macquarie Plains, the Rev. T. Garrard, met
with an accident a few days ago. While coming out of
the Star and Garter Hotel, New Norfolk, he failed to
notice that the trap-door of the cellar had been left open, and
fell in, fracturing some of his ribs. Assistance was
promptly at hand, and the rev. gentleman is now pro-
gressing towards recovery.” This is a grim joke.
“Advance Australia!” is our proud motto.
Why should not the “poet’s” art, here as in the old
country, be applied to advertising? In the following
strains may be recognised the *’ sacred fire ” of the man
who wrote the yyprds of the Melbourne Exhibition can-
tata. Already is he trading on his late-won reputation!
Behold I In an Adelaide paper appears the following:
—“ Oysters! Oysters ! The Epicure’s delight. This
delicious bivalve—this charming mollusc—this appetiz-
ing esculent—stewed, fried, or in his native beauty,
can be obtained at all times at,” &c. &c.
Mr. J. G. S. Grant has given to the world an
account, under the title of “ Twenty-five Years in Dun-
edin,” of his early preachments, strongly mixed up with
a sort of statistical record of the number of townships
that have sprung up since his arrival. Here is a passage
from this most gorgeous of all works: —“ Since the days
of Paul, no man did more for his fellow-creatures than
Augustine. His writings have been a perennial fountain
of beauty, piety, and delight to many millions of men
and women, in the North East Valley there arc twenty
townships —to wit, Ferguslie, Duddingstone," Sec. See. Mr,
Grant is evidently one of those Scotchmen who don’t
know what fun is.
It was at Adelaide. Port Dock shares are worth
.£4. Charlie is tall and scoopy, and sly, and smart. He
speculates, and always very properly takes remarkably
good care of number one. At Hazlewood, the other
night, was Charlie. He danced, and, on Wilkes’ prin-
ciple, managed to absorb the pretty girls. Supper-time
came, but there wasn’t room for all; therefore, the
gentlemen had to wait—and so, indeed, did many ladies.
Charlie objects to time-bargains. He sat down calmly
between two belles—the only male at the table. He was
quickly detected. Carl volunteered to mete out pun-
ishment, and adopted the sarcastic method. “ What
will you take, Miss Charlie ? ” he asked. “ I’ll take 50
Port Docks at £2," promptly retorted the smart Charlie.
And he had the best of it, for why ape good-breeding
when supper is ready? Carl remained hungry, but
Charlie didn’t.
This is straight. A certain representative of a
pastoral constituency (in Victoria, we think) got “tight”
one night at a popular hotel in a Northern township.
When he left the hostelrie, being aware of his condition,
he said to himself —“I’ll get in without (hie) waking the
missus.” So he entered his residence quietly—merely
tumbling over the scraper, and causing an abrasure on
the “ aqueduct” of the nasal organ,—and crept upstairs
to his bedroom, where the partner of his joys was, to
all appearance, peacefully slumbering. He took off his
clothes carefully, standing on tip-toe the while, so as
not to awaken her. This done, he quietly ensconced
himself in the nuptial couch. Hardly had he done so,
than a musical voice ejaculated—“ Henry! Ton had
better take off .your hat! "
On taking farewell of the Rev. T. Spurgeon at
Brisbane, the Rev. R. Kingsford, in a very appropriate
and interesting speech, moved the following resolution:
“ That the Baptist Association of Queensland desire to
express their thanks to God for his kindness in pre-
serving and sending to this colony, once more, Mr.
Thomas Spurgeon.” The Rev. W. H. Pbole seconded
the resolution, making some humorous observations,
which evoked much laughter. Mr. G. Grimes sup.
ported the resolution, which was put to the meeting,
and carried in the heartiest possible manner. The
above is extracted from the report as published in the
Brisbane Observer. No doubt the Angels sang more
sweetly when the Observer came out.
Delegated Divinity. A fact. —The curtain rises
on the vestry of a country parish church. L.F. cadaver-
ous parson reclining on a fald-stool; R.B. the beadle,
holding small boy (very flushed, tearful, and grimy) by
the shirt-collar. To whom. Cadaverous Parson; “So
you dared to make faces at the beadle, did you ? Are
you aware, boy, that as the servant of the Church, yon
ought, in a sense, to regard him as the vice-regent of
the Almighty on earth ?—(beadle’s face begins to shine
Mosaically)—that an insult offered to him partakes of
the nature of a sacrilege ? —(beadle relapses into gloom)
—and—and—remember the lesson we read at last Sunday
school, boy, about Elisha and the two bears! ’’ (Beadle
casts furtive glance behind him, and releases his hold on
boy, who incontinently slopes.)
A most enjoyable soiree at|’Sevenoaks, Upper
William-street, on Tuesday evening, sth inst., was
attended by a large company, including some of the
elite of Sydney society. The house was handsomely
decorated, the especial feature being a display of Chinese
lanterns which festooned the shrubs in the grounds,
which had an extremely pleasing effect. Notwithstanding
a few hours’ rain, the gardens were a great resource,
and were extensively availed of during the evening.
Dancing was kept up to a late hour, the floor being es-
pecially inviting, and it would have taxed the invention
of the most hypercritical to discover a fault with the
arrangements, which were perfect in every detail.
Some of the toilettes were very pretty and tasteful —
notably two dresses of a delicate pink shade, worn by
sisters. The daughter of a clergyman, attired in blue,
was much admired.
The following tempestuous blast of French
appears in the Penny Bennett of October 6; —“ Death
of a great composer.—London, Octobers. —The eminent
musician and composer, Jaques Offenbach, who was
bom at Cologne on the 21st of June, 1819, is dead. He
was the author of ‘La Belle Helene,’ (sic) * Orphee aux
enfeats,’ (sic) ‘ La Barbe Bleu,’ (sic) ‘ Grande Duchesse,’
‘La Perichole,’ ‘La Jollie (sic) Parfumense,’ and
many other noted operas.” Now, Offenbach never
composed "La Barbe Bleu,” because there is no such
opera|; nor “Orphee aux enfents" (whatever that may
mean); nor La Jollie Parfumense,” for the same reason.
The nearest one they have got right is La Belle Helene,
for that’s only two accents short. Taking these cor-
rections at 3d. each, the Noose people now are Is. in
our debt. We trust they will send it round at their
earliest convenience.
Writes a correspondent : —“ If you want to see
some real, genuine, thorough-paced ‘mashing’ done,
just go to the horse-car delivery station, and fix your
orbs for a time on the * boss.’ He is always at it. If
you go there in the morning you will see him bailed up
by some old lady who is talking in earnest tones
about her daughter or some other young woman in dis-
tress. If you go at noon you will find him lingering
near a petticoat; but oh! if,you are there in the even-
ing after he has been shaved and scented, you will see
the thing done rightly. Ho is then the cynosure of fe-
male eyes. A bevy of languishing dames cluster around
him like flies around a pie, and the havoc that is there
wrought is pitiable to think of. Those soulless cynics
who complain about the faulty construction of the road,
the motors running off the tracks, and the cube-sets
being stolen, broken up, and re-sold to the Government,
must at all events hold their tongues about the
‘ mashing.’ They can’t say that that is not properly at-
tended to.”
The richest scene that ever took place in the
Victorian Assembly (and that is saying a great deal) is
described by a press correspondent. Prior to the
assembling of the House on a recent evening
a tamo parrot which had lost itself, or which had
a mind to see how its human congeners got on, hopped
on the roof of the skylight and fluttered about. The
aged Sergeant-at-Arms got on the highest seat and
whistled sweetly, but Joey wasn’t on. He merely
roosted on the carved parapet and chirped. Then he
tried to settle on the chandelier, and so made the
pendants emit musical sounds, not at all pleasant to
members underneath who, bobbed their heads in fear
that a —well, that a lustre would drop on their bald
pates. Just as a member was firing off a series of
questions at the Attorney-General in a white heat, for
he had had a tussle with the Speaker, “ Joey " perched
on the parapet above him and whistled in the drollest
manner “ Pop goes the weasel.” Then when Mr.
Wrixon began to speak of closed roads the bird said
“Pretty Joey, pretty boy!” and when Longmore, the
fiendish smiler, and M'Kean, of the long body and short
mind, were orating he exclaimed, satirically enough,
“ Such a pretty little boy, Joey!"
A few of our impecunious legislators might take
a'hint from the following, which Dagonet (Mr. G. R.
Simms) writes anent the Irish members in the Referee :
—“ The Irish members are now such prominent per-
sonages in the Legislative Assembly that a few words
with regard to their habits of life, &c., may be welcome
to the students ©f human nature. Home Eulers are
human beings as a matter of fact, though the people
they represent are occasionally very inhuman indeed.
Being a truly representative body of men, they differ
very much in appearance, manner, and social position.
Some are gentlemen and journalists, others are milk-
cart-drivers, adventurers, and what not. Most of them
are very poor, which is no disgrace. To live in London
during the session costs a great deal of money. Some
of the Home Eulers have to live on about thirty shil-
lings a week. It wouldn’t do for an M.P, to have a six-
penny bed at a coffee-shop, or to dine publicly on a
four-penny beefsteak-pudding, would it ? To avoid this
the Irish members have clubbed together and taken a
little house. An old woman manages it, cooks for
them, and sees to their linen. They sleep four in a
room on little camp beds, and take their meals at a
common table. The style of life is picturesque and
Bohemian. When a dozen of them get among short
clays and whisky bottles the little house resounds with
song and laughter. They are very amiable one to the
other, and no M.P. is above lending another his best
shirt for festive occasions.” Some of our members can
beat this. They never “borrow shirts.”
A certain great local poet is, it is alleged, busy
on an epic which will “knock” civilisation. It is to
be called “The Land of Spirits,” and commences in
this wise:—
In the walls sound the taps,
Prom the tables the raps.
And yet there are chaps
Who scoff at it !
For the spirits, they say,
In irreverent way,
All kinds of games play
Most erratic.
As for “yes” they say “no,”
And say “ Kiss your aunt’s toe,”
Or “To Jericho go,’*—
And such dribble;
And droll things just like that,
And they give the lie flat.
And consign yon quite pat
To the devil}
Unbelievers should die !
At least, so say I;
I’d, to blow ’em on high.
Be their gunner;
And I’d like to give Beg
A kick in the leg,
And land Peter Campbell a “ oner!’’
This poem will doubtless attract a considerable amount
of attention.


Business Announcements
-*yrß. AUGUST SIEGRIST,
The American Sprite,
js at Liberty to accept Engagements for the Holidays
TO PLAY SPRITE.
Managers address to
Arditto's Hotel, Haymarket and Pitt Sterets.
£JHEAPEST and best geoceries
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
, and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER,
608 George-street.
ETIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
hy Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will bo a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
park hotel,
DARLING ROAD, BALMAIN.
W. DEEMER begs to inform travellers and the public
.generally that The Bulletin, S. M. Herald, Evening
News, &c., &c., will be found in the commercial room
of the above Hotel.
AJ. WATT AND CO.’S
• CARAGHEEN,
FOR COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS,
The Best Remedy, &c.
A. J. WATT AND CO.,
628 George-street,
Sydney.
AJ. WATT AND CO.’S
• CARBOLIC ACID JUJUBES.
CURE SORE THROAT AND PREVENT
CONTAGION.
A. J. WATT AND CO.,
528 George-street,
Sydney.
F
LOUR SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
■ quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Feed.
AIZ E N A
FLOUR.
M
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
yet offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheat). Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
oex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEARNE.
p<EORGE BARR,
GALVANIZED IRON & TIN MANUFACTORY,
631, George-street.
...
II I
MM
'I glff :
m
■■■■
t he largest and cheapest
WHOLESALE MANUFACTURER
IN THE COLONY.
GALVANIZED TANKS
made from 2£d. per gallon.
«ft BATHS, 355,
With plug.
Business Announcements
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Grange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
A
LBEET S. MANDEES &
(Late Grant, Manders, and Grant)
CO.,
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING, AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 Little Collins-street East
Melbourne.
A.
G. CHUECHWOOD.
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand, Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
IF YOU WANT
A Cup of
REALLY GOOD TEA
Try the
TAPPING
MIXTURE.
-T
PACKED INTO 1-ib AND t-tb PACKETS
IN THE CHINA TEA GARDENS.
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE,
Oxford-street.
P. BOWES.
Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES.
W illiam-street.
R. S. TIGHE,
Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES,
Railway Tea Mart,
Opposite Station).
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
n.
Sr
%
m
m
Manufactured by
T. S A YW E L L,
AT THR
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
CSf >c> O.
Gb. mod ini,
• QUNMAKER AND CUTLER,
602 Qeoroe Street, Sydney, 602.
Awarded 2 special prizes for colonial Firearms and
Cutlery. Importer of every description of
Firearms, Cutlery, <fcc.
Every description of Firearms repaired and Guns Re-
stocked on the shortest notice. Cutlery of any kind
made to order on the premises.
Business Announcements
jj" NCREASING SUCCESS MEANS PUBLIC
APPRECIATION.
NOW THAT IT IS WELL KNOWN
That the CO-OP. means a THOROUGH SAVING
amounting in course of time to
A VERY LARGE SUM,
THE NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS INCREASES
DAILY,
,
And all are pleased both with the value and prices
and the way we do business.
The LOWEST LISTS IN TOWN for CASH
and NO ABATEMENT.
THE LARGE WELL - ASSORTED STOCK
COMPRISES:
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY FOR THE PARLOR-
Long Lace Curtains, from 3/11
Beautiful Cloth Table-Cover, 7fi\
Handsome Twilled Cretonnes, from 7|d
Lace Antimacassars, from 7?d
Tapestry Hearth Bugs, 5/9
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY for the BEDROOM—
White Blankets, from Vll pair
Counterpanes and Quilt s every possible size, from
3/11
Sheetings Beautiful soft finish, I/O
Mosquito Net, two yards wide, 7fd
Chamber Towels, 2/11 per dozen
Turkish Towels, very nice, 81d each
Scolloped Valance Hangings, B£d
Marcella Toilet Covers, IOJd
Bedroom Carpets, 1/3
Window Muslin, 3)
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY FOR THE DINING-
ROOM—
Beautiful Oil Baizes, 1/3
Unbleached Linen Table Damask 1/2.i
White Table Covers, 2i yards long, 4/9
Damask Table Napkins, 2/11 per dozen
Scarlet and Black Table Covers, 5,11
Lace Window Valances, 2.3
fiooJ Pattern Chintzes, s£d
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY FOR THE FAMILY—
The best value in Flannels in the city
Pink Edge Saxony Flannel, 1/3 i
Very Stout Flannel for shirts, 11
Calicoes of every quality and make
Hollands, Linings, Diapers of every quality
HOUSEHOLD DRAPERY for PERSONAL USE—
A Splendid stock of White and Coloured Stays, 2/11
Parachutes, thoroughly reliable silks, 4/11
Tussore Picnic Parachutes, lined colors,
Black two-button Gloves (a nice kid), 1/11^
Hosiery of all sizes and makes.
THE PRINCIPLE OF THE CO-OP IS, THAT
“ THE NIMBLE NINEPENCE”
is better than the SLOW EIGHTEENPENCE,
and customers evidently think so too.
CHARLES LANE
668 George-street.
Business Announcements
OTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHRIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFOED-STEEET,
Begs respectful!/ to inform the inhabitants of Wool-
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXPOED-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENEEAL
DEAPEE in all its branches.
THE MILLINEET,
LADIES’ UNDEECLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPAETMENTS
Wlli be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best Loudon Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing from other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
„ „ „ „ Baby Linen
„ ~ „ ~ Ladies' Underclothing.
„ ~ ~ ~ Dressmaking.
DON’T POEGET THE ADDEESS,
LONDON HOUSE.
81 OXFOED-STEEET.
B
OOTS!
BOOTS! !
BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
670 GEOEGE STEEET,
Brickfield Hill.
O O L.
TO WOOL GEO WEES, MEECHANTS and OTHEES,
THE COMING SEASON, 1880.
The near approach of the New Season causes us to
remind growers to make their arrangements in good
time for the Disposal of their Wools, aud while thank-
ing our friends for the business which has been entrus-
ted to ns hitherto, we have the pleasure again to offer
our services for either the SALE or SHIPMENT of the
New Clip.
The extension of the railways throughout the interior
will cause the Wool of the coming season to reach Syd-
ney both earlier and within a shorter space of time than
heretofore, and in view thereof we have made such ar-
rangements, by securing more extensive Warehouse
Accommodation, to deal with the Wool as fast as it
arrives, that we can promise those who may favour us
with their Business that, as soon as their Wool roaches
the railway station or the wharves, we shall take IM-
MEDIATE DELIVERY of it.
On this point, therefore, no delay need be feared by
OWNEES of WOOL.
Our Warehouses are SPACIOUS and PAETICU-
LAELY WELL LIGHTED, and are thus admirably
adapted for the Display of Wools to the best advantage.
All Wools are carefully examined and valued by our-
selves prior to being offered at auction, thus each lot is
thoroughly protected up to its full MARKET VALUE.
Instructions, when given as to reserve prices, are also
carried out. We can, therefore, confidently assure
owners that every care is exercised by us in the disposal
of Wools placed in our hands for sale.
In our Circular issued prior to the opening of the
Last Season we therein anticipated an active demand
from American and Continental Buyers in this Market,
and the result justified our expectations, and it now
affords us pleasure to inform Wool Growers that a still
more animated Business may bo confidently looked for-
ward to during the Coming Season.
The quantity of Wool sold during the past year in the
Sydney Market, owing to the operation of the Foreign
Buyers, considerably exceeded what was sold in any
previous year, ard as the demand from the same
sources, added to the requirements of the Local Buyers,
promises this Coming Season to be still larger, the
prospects that prices will be well maintained are very
bright.
These inducements will no doubt operate largely to
cause Wool Growers to try this Market. To those of
our Friends who prefer shipping to London we also
offer our services.
We are always in a position to ensure best Terms of
freight by first-class vessels. We will therefore either
ship to our Agents in England, making full advances,
or we will hand over Documents as we may be directed
by the owners of any Clips entrusted to us for shipment.
MAIDEN. HILL and CLAEK,
Offices—Pitt-street, Sydney.
Wool Stores, Circular Quay.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, sth October, 1880.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
OTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from this
date, it will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No. 857; E. C. Lavery and another; Portion No.
39; County of Gough, parish of Clive ;20 acres. Ap-
plication No., Tingha2s6.


Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are-
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PATHK MS At
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
Miscellaneous
TV EYSDALE AND EGBERT S,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Eims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Eequisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Soiled Joists, Hon, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W 1
'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £\ 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &c., &c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MERIC AN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
machines y,
Have for Sale —
J. A. Pay and Co.’s First Special Prise Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Circulars and Prices.
T
HE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD.
'V
A
ECOMOM'CAL
C 2 of
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., t gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said Of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences."
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
CHARLES LEWIS’ NEW IMPROVED
STEAM COOKING APPARATUS,
PATENTED FOR FOURTEEN TEARS.
This invention has been devised for the purpose of
providing an economical, convenient, and efficient steam
cooking apparatus, which will be entirely under control,
and by which the flavour and juices of the articles
cooked therein are perfectly retained. It is especially
adapted for large institutions, such as hospitals,
asylums, schools, clubs, hotels, restaurants, gaols,
ships, and such like. It occupies but a small space,
and may be placed anywhere.
Also, the newly improved STEAM CARVING
CHEST, all sizes.
LONDON IRON WORKS:
173 and 175 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
C. LEWIS,
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR, ENGINEER,
GENERAL SMITH, AND MACHINIST,
Makes all kinds of Gates and Railings, Palisading (plain
and ornamental), Railway Signals, Hurdle, Sheep and
Cattle Pens, and Brands of all kinds.
N.B.—Gas and other Engines erected and repaired.
H A R L E S HEMSLEY,
TAILOR AND SHIRTMAKER,
297 GEORGE STREET
(Nearly opposite Hunter-street, two doors south of
Cafe Franfais),
Removed from 372 George-street.
SPLENDID CHOICE of WOOLLENS.
NEW STOCK of COLLARS, TIES, BRACES,
UMBRELLAS, &c.
CHARLES HEMSLEY.
EME D Y
FOR IMPURE
EAPII) WATER FILTERS.
WATER.
• ’ ''
IllllllUlfll" 1
FILTER
90S
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole Agents for George Cheavin’s
Rapid Water Filters, which are adopted in preference to all
others by the English and Foreign Governments, the Slite of the
Medical Profession, Hospitals, Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note throughout the United King-
dom and the whole of Europe, but it has made its way into the
most remote parts of the Globe —a success unparalleled by any
other Filter. Its superiority over all others for purity of water,
rapidity of action, simplicity of construction, durability, and effi-
ciency is verified by the numerous Gold and Silver Medals it has
been awarded in England, the Continent of Europe, America, and
Australia.
Thousands had a drink of pure water from these Filters which
were placed in the Garden Palace during the late International
Exhibition.
GUARD against TYPHOID FEVER and all other diseases
arising from drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAVIN’S RAPID WATER FILTERS.
SOLE AGENTS:
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T?T '7, TT!
Cocoa
R.-HARPER&CO.,
%
•%^s>
sm
%
SYDNEY.
Against the world
E. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Teh First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
STA,
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says;—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
- r
TRADE MARK-
TRADE MARK.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old tor all drocers and Storekeepers;
ass
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL
diaq °m
OR
ALL WOOL
Tro™"?,
TO
e j s UR£j
jl3.2>s
16s .6 l
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns'°choose from
H .L SUMMERFIELO
283
PITTSTSYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
~PT GREER AND CO. ’ &
PRIZE
ALBUEY WINES.
Eed Wines :
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Wines:
Reisling
Yerdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
* CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and published by the
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Dm
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
sr
IMustar
R. HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY
IN GE B'S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40 000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES £6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have YOU not heard of it ? Have you not heard of it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
EVES’
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT).
NON-POISONOUS! NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OP THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OF THE WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes' Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Oeo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashjield ;—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney ; —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee: —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney; —My child had sore eyes for 2| years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney :—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
E.
CLAEKE AND
Wholesale and Retail
CO.,
T
HO S. J. BEO W N &
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHERS,
c o,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
POSTAGE STAMPS.
G E 0 C E E S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTEALIAN WINES and GENEEAL
GEOCEEIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXPOED STEEET
teamway tickets.
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
