

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 3.—No. 28.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, AUGUST 7, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 7, 1880.
The Premier at Ashfield.
The friends and admirers of Sir Henry Parkes
hospitably entertained him and a couple of
Ins colleagues at Ashfield on Saturday last.
Whether the whole thing was a colonial substi-
tute for an English white-bait banquet, and got
up to enable the hon. Premier to “ unbosom,”
matters little. He seized the opportunity, if he
did not project it, to make a speech, and he
made, on the whole, a good one. He very for-
cibly defended his coalition with Sir John
Robertson, spoke in glowing periods of their
amity and accord since their political partner-
ship, and dwelt with commendable emphasis on
the parliamentary achievements of the last ses-
sion. No sane man will grudge the Premier the
honour Ashfield did him, or the glorification of
self and colleagues he indulged in on that festive
occasion. A few of his flights were a little too
lofty —sftiacked of that poetic enthusiasm which
ho displayed, in his sporting days, when he shot
the moon ! It assuredly was a specimen of in-
trepid assertiveness (which the vulgar call cheek)
to blurt out the following:—•“ During the session
j ust closed the measures they had finally passed
dealt with far more difficult questions than had
been finally dealt with by Lord Beaconseield’s
Government during its whole existence. During
the whole existence of the late Imperial Govern-
ment there was nothing to be compared to the
important legislation which had been crowded
into the labours of this last session of Parliament
.here, and he challenged reference to the pro-
ceedings of the Houses of the Imperial Parlia-
ment to prove the statement he made.” When
we consider on the one hand the colossal interests
of the greatest empire on earth, and on the other
a mere dependency, we can got some idea of the
“ blowing” indulged in this utterance. Besides,
all the great measures of last session have been
maturing for years. The Electoral Act has been
simmering in the public mind for a decade of
years, and to Mr. Greenwood and his follow-
ing the country is mainly indebted for the ulti-
mate determination of the Education question.
What the Government did not do was to
carry their fiscal policy or their licensing
scheme. We can make liberal allowance for
the mental exaltation occasioned by cheers,
flowers, champagne and cheers, but there should
be a modus in all things. If it please the Pre-
mier lie may hug himself with the satisfaction
of having done greater things in a given time
than Bismarck, Cairoli, Beaconseield and
Berry rolled into one ; but for the sake of that
modesty which he affects, and to disarm the
“small fry” of the Press and prevent them from
discharging their pellets at his pitiful vanity, he
should be less lavish of his self-laudations.
However, for the real gold in his speech, we for-
give him the mixture of dross it contains.
Parkes and “Secular” Education.
The Premier, under the soothing influence of
the profuse patting of his Ashfield oaressers,
purred away on Saturday night like a properly-
prepared tom-cat before a drawing-room fire.
As they stroked his sides, and smoothed his
ears, nose and whiskers, the expressions of satis-
faction with himself and his surroundings to
wtiioh he gave utterance were quite pleasant to
listen to. That his Public Instruction Act—his
own, so completely, as be told his audience—
should constitute the central subject of Ids self-
gratulations is not surprising. We know
that it a popular Act with the majority of the
electors, which must be all-sufficient in the eyes
of a politician who declares that the great art in
statesmanship is to swim with the tide. But
while he rejoices in the success of his policy, he
should not, even in moments of post-prandial
ecstasy, misrepresent it. When he declares that
he has never advocated any difference being made
ln the treatment of the free citizens of this free
country, and goes out of his way to proclaim
that such equality is the right- even of those
who discard Christianity altogether,” he must
know that he is not fairly presenting his own
educational system. If he were speaking of the
national secular education adopted in colonies
like Victoria and New Zealand he would be
justified in asserting that Christians and
non-Christians were treated alike, nothing
repellant to either being taught. lie is
not justified in making such an assertion in
New South Wales. We are not condemning
the Premier for having made Protestant Chris-
tianity a part of the ordinary State ed ucation of
this colony. With his notions of the worship of
expediency in statesmanship he might have been
unable to accomplish anything else. But if his
system be a needful one, it will surely bear the
truth being spoken of it. If Sir lleyuy were in
Italy he might admit the reasonableness of the pub-
lic schools teaching the dogmas of the immaculate
conception of Maky, and her Q.ueenship of
Heaven, to the youthful pupils; but he would
certainly doubt the bona Jides of the Italian who
declared that this was placing Roman Catholics
and Protestants on an equality. Why then should
he needlessly insult those opposed to him and the
great bulk of the electors in the Christian belief
by declaring that there should be no difference
made between them and other “free citizens,”
when he knows that he is compelling them to
pay to support an educational system in which
dogmas relative to the deity of Jesus and His
death as an atoning sacrifice form a part of, and
have prominent place in the school books pro-
vided by the State? While not committing
ourselves to an advocacy of the religious views
held by Freethinkers, we are anxious that the
Premier should not play fast and loose with
Secularism, and lay claim to a breadth of liberality
to which he is not entitled. Even when purring,
Sir Henbt, purr truthfully.
Windsor Geebungs.
When the late Daniel Hbnkt Denieht used
the name of that viscous and acid vegetable pro-
duct, the geebung, as a symbol of the mental
capacities of certain individuals, he did not pro-
bably apply it so much on account of
any exact analogy between the things repre-
sented as by reason of something in the
sound that suggested the sense ; but it is quite
certain that the designation was at once popularly
accepted, and served to distinguish a narrow-
minded, selfish, and intellectually crude class.
Human geebungs are not, perhaps, more numerous
on either bank of the Hawkesbury than else-
where ; but most assuredly two of them—Messrs.
William Walker and Henry M'Quade —
have recently exhibited themselves in a manner
that fits them for the satirical wit’s classification.
Both of these gentlemen became candidates for
the repi’esentation of Windsor —rendered vacant
by the lamented demise of Mr. Richard
Driver —and instead of outlining a political
programme and defending their convictions on
public questions, they made such a display of
pure parochialism —of a craven spirit of localism
—as to move the merriment or censure of their
respective supporters. One of them pinned his
colours to a promised high-level bridge, and the
other claimed support because he was “in
favour” of deepening the river. Neither
grappled with the great question of the day—the
state of the country’s finances —and neither said
a word about the feelings that should animate
the people during the forthcoming general elec-
tions. Mr. Walker looked upon the whole
thing as “a solemn farce,” because at best it
could only result in “ a three months’ name ; ”
and yet he seems to have smiled with “ the wrong
si eof his mouth ”at the farcical result. He
certainly got angry at his defeat, or he would not
have snappishly insinuated, in an advertisement,
that his opponent succeeded through “printed
posters, hired carriages, and free drinks.” Mr.
M'Quade has not taken public notice of these
allegations, but is content with his success, and
is perhaps engaged in mild amateur engineering
for the purpose of rendering the Hawkesbury
navigable up to Windsor. So far as public in-
terest affects this pair of Arcadians personally,
little need be said ; but severer treatment is duo
to the whole body of which they are the type.
How can we have statesmanship—organised
party action —intelligent and intelligible consi-
deration of great issue—when candidates claim
support solely through a mean-spirited localism ?
No doubt, whatever may become of Messrs.
Walker and M’Quadk in the political future,
Windsor will get her high-level bridge if she is
entitled to it, and her river will be deepened and
straighted before long; but all that is beside the
question. Candidates who come before con-
stituencies without a distinct enunciation of
opinion on public questions should be quietly sek
aside or contemptuously ignored. The bridge-
agin-my-door men have had their day,
and have carried off the spoils of log-
rolling pretty extensively. While the country is
in the throes of anxiety as to how to make
ends meet, shrinking at the shadow of a huge de-
ficit, and while there is general uneasiness as u>
the kind of increased taxation that should bo
adopted, the electors will be doubly forgetful of
the due discharge of a solemn public duty if they
return representatives solely on account of the
local advantages they obtain through them. The
time is come to think of the colony as a whole,
and leave such small matters as bridges and
river-deepenings to be dealt with on a compre-
hensive municipal system. We sinceiely trust
that geebunyism of the kind criticised will not
prevail much (If at all) during the general
election.
Bookmakers and Sculling.
W e are pleased to hear that Tbickett has been
fortunate enough to secure the services of honest
Harry Kelley to prepare him for his contest,
with the Canadian sculler. It is to be hoped
that the Australian will have the good sense to be
guided by Kelley in all matters connected with
his training, and to keep free of that portion of
the betting fraternity which is always endeavour-
ing to be associated with athletic matters. The
announcement lately made that a Victorian
bookmaker had left Melbourne to join the Sydney
champion for the purpose of training him took
the community here by surprise, and not a few of
those who had subscribed towards the fund for
sending Edward Tbickett to England regretted
that they had promised to contribute in any way
towards his expenses. The circumstances attend-
ing the late aquatic contests in America
demonstrate the harm done by the intro*
duction of the betting element, and when
it is associated so closely as to be connected
with training, the public naturally.take but little
interest in the result. \Ve trust therefore that
Tbickett will bo better advised and be intimate
only with the trainer who so carefully prepared
him for his first contest on the Thames, and with
t hose who take an interest in the sport for the
love of it and not on account of the amount
of money they can put in their pockets.
There is another aspect of the affair which
affects the colony much more than it
does Trickett. Although the metallician
in question is in many respects a very fine fellow
and it is far from our intention to throw the
slightest reflection upon his private character, the
English Press will not be slow, after the late
cricket dispute with Lord Harris’ people—
which is not yet forgotten, judging from the
treatment received by the present Australian
team of cricketers—to accuse us of not knowing
what true sport is when a bookmaker is allowed
to take a large share in the greatest aquatic
contest ever yet rowed.
The Hon. John Lackey, Minister for
Works.
Festina lente ia not, nowadays, the motto of many
politicians. They generally try to get at the top
of the tree (or ladder) as soon as they can ; and
they probably do so not so much through an inflated
idea of their own superiority as through a desire to
prevent their rivals getting ahead of them. Where
and when emulation is fierce, modesty will seldom
pat in an appearance; and hence it rarely happens
that a man loses a chance of taking a front place
THE HON. JOHN LACKEY, MINISTER FOR WORKS.


when the opportunity offers. There have been dis-
tmguiehed imperial statesmen who have repressed
this insatiable egotism, and chief amongst them is
the illustrious Peel —the Sir Robert—whp fled
from office when ho first learned that its accept-
ance would soon become a matter of duty, and
was recalled from his travels on the European
continent, while he was studying archaeology in
Rome, to form an Administration. In him we find
the type of the statesman upon whom honour was
, but who, having once accepted the respon-
sibilities of office, never shrunk from a scrupu-
lously conscientious discharge of its duties. Lack-
ing the sonorous eloquence of Chatham’s glorious
son, William Pitt, the incandescent logic of Burke,
the sparkling gracefulness of Canning, and the
dazzling sophistry of Disraeli, he realised the
solid Englishman s ideal of a man of common sense
and sterling honesty ; and it will ever be a bright
mark in his career, that he ascended the highest
round in the ladder of fame without baseness or
servility.
In our free-and-easy delineations of public life,
we are necessarily compelled to compare great
things with small—Lilliputian men with Brob-
dijmags—but it is noteworthy that we can, without
being ridiculous, institute such comparisons.
The gentleman whose portrait we give to-day, is
one of those slow, sensible, practical men who suc-
ceed in whatever they undertake. Without shin-
ing qualities, without a scintilla of genius, and
even without much mental exorcise, they quietly
and securely reach the highest objects of
their ambition, and hardly experience strong emo-
tions at their own success. The Hon. John Lackey
is one—and for a native born the most remarkable
—of this class. That he has ever kept “ the even
tenor of his way ” would be paying him a poor
compliment. _ It is better to avow that he has in
ms composition much of the moral avoirdupois
that balanced and solidified the character of Peel.
He may honestly bo put forward as the only N. S.
W. politician who has been successful without
bluster, and who has satisfied an honourable
ambition without going out of his way to win the
crown. Success has not demoralised him: he is
rather quieter than he was ten years ago; and
even the Turf has apparently begun to lose its
olden attractions for him. It is difficult to venture
on a rational suggestion as to the key of his tem-
perament, which is at once slow and practical,
active without display, and respected by all parties
through the inertia of his intellectual organization.
Ho is quiet, thoughtful, and honest. John Lackey,
the Minister for Works, the son of a veteran sol-
dier was bom in Sydney. October 1830, under the
shadow of old St. Mary’s. He received a good
rudimentary education from Mr. Mills and at the
Sydney College; and such good use did he make
of the more solid attainments of his scholastic
course that he began to turn them to account
before ho was out of his teens. He became a
magistrate of the territory in the twenty-second
hi 3 a fT 0 i a nd a few years later was returned
j * or Central Cumberland. Two years after
wards Parramatta returned him by a significant and
majority at the head of the poll,
and then his Parliamentary fame began. He
became Chairman of Committees and took a high
position in the Assembly, without a symptom of
surprise or a smile of self-consciousness. Even
when defeated in the Byrnes-Parnell racket (1865),
he retired to his Tusculurn on the Dog-trap Road,
to await events, tranquilly. On the retirement of
•»!r l nov y kir John) Hay for Central Cumberland,
Mr. Lackey was drawn from his rural pursuits—
his quiet life as a country gentleman—to enter
the arena in Maoquarie-street. His gentlemanly
demeanour, his admirable self-control, his rigid
impartiality, and his solid knowledge of Parlia-
mentary practice, secured him, while Chairman of
Committees, the respect and approval of members
on both sides of the House. When he received the
po Works in the Robertson admiuistra-
tion (1875 to 1877), nobody was surprised and
nobody was elated, least of all the hon. gentle-
man himself. He began politics with faith in
Cow per ism, and ended with absolute conviction
in all Robertsonian policies—agrarian, electoral,
and financial. It is not surprising that ha should
be enrolled amongst the bright “ particular stars”
of the present coalition Ministry, which is now
witching the world ” with noble statesmanship.
Apart from “ parties,” we feel a particular pleasure
to enrola genuine native, who is not ageebungor a
blower, ’ ’ in our gallery of illustrious Australians;
and, wo are confident, very few of our thousands
of readers will be disappointed to-day at receiving
Thh Bulletin memorial of the solid, consistent
and modest John Lackey, Minister for Works’
whose administrative ability loses nothing through
his strong-willed self-control.
Banquet to the Premier.
The complimentary banquet given to Sir Henry
Parkes at Ashfiold, on Saturday evening, was a
brilliant success, and was attended by about 150
representative gentlemen, including several mem-
bers of the Ministry. The chair was occupied by
Mr. D. Holborrow, the Mayor of Ashfield, and the
vice-chair by Mr. John "Wood a, who, in proposin'”
. The Ministry,” remarked that never since the
inauguration of Responsible Government had the
colony nad a Ministry more zealous for the public
interest. The toast was replied to by Sir John
Robertson, and the Hons, the Attorney-General
and the Treasurer. In responding to the toast of
his health, proposed by the chairman, Sir Henry
Parkes gave a sort of Apologia pro vitasua, in the
course of which he said a few rather neat things
and acquainted his audience with some interesting
facts. He regarded the banquet as the greatest
compliment yet paid him since he received, in 1353
his first requisition for the city of Sydney—which
requisition he had preserved as young ladies do
their love-letters. Ho gave an account of how he
came to ally himself with his former political
opponent, and remarked that although it had been
stated that he and Sir John had united after a
life-long hatred,” yet he and the Vice-President
of the Executive Council had worked hand in hand
in some of the greatest troubles a nation could
pass through. He had never felt the slightest
inconvenience, unpleasantness, or uncomfortable
feeling of any kind in his intercourse with Sir John
ji a • People could only see how harmonious
and loving the members of the Cabinet were.Jthey
might: come to the conclusion that they were too
united. Sir Henry then briefly referred to the
achievements of his Government, claiming that
every movement made in the cause of education
for years past had been made by himself ; that he
was the veritable author of the original Public
Schools Act and of that passed last session, the
text of both measures having been written with
j"" hand ‘ J* he warned the electors that
?A ltlon ?- ct w ™. ? ot to b « regarded as safe
—that the question of priestly domination” was
again remitted to the constituencies, and that the
return of men pledged to the Act was the only
moans of conserving what had been acquired. He
indicated that the policy of hio Government would
xn the future as in the past bo non-protectivo and
progressive in the direction of developing the
natural resources of the colony and encouraging
the influx of population ; and, in conclusion, he
expressed the hope that when tne Ministry retired
from office they would retire with honour. He
trusted they would retire with an expression on
the part of the country that the colony was better
for their having held office so long. Sir Henry,
after speaking for an hour and three-quarters, sat
down amidst loud cheers; and the company, hav-
ing spent a most agreeable evening, separated
after a number of other toasts had been dealt with
The Compagnoni Company catered in their usual
first-class style.
TOWN TALK.
The Evening News staff, it would appear
were a little unsettled by the verdict obtained by
Mr. O’Connor on Friday last, for Saturday’s paper
displayed several little eccentricities of an
unusually entertaining description. In the loader
on Buskin’s article in the “ Nlnotteenh Cen-
Waters makes the author of
Fors Clavigera ” say, in alluding to Bleak
House, that nine deaths, occurred—“ one by
assassination, one by starvation, one by
chagrin, one by spontaneous combustion, one by
sorrow, one by remorse, one by insanity, one by
paralysis, besides the baby by fever, and a lively
young Frenchman left to be hanged.” Now we
have a very vivid recollection of the book in
question, yet we have no remembrance whatever
of any ‘‘lively young Frenchman left to be
hanged. ’ Buskin, we are convinced, could never
have made this mistake, so therefore the genial
editor of the News is responsible for it. In
stating that the person left in the unpleasant
position stated was Lady Dedlock’s morose French
lady’s maid and not a “ lively young Frenchman ”
we not merely make a necessary correction but,
it is to bo hoped, oil upon the troubled
Waters also.
This par., too, amongst the brevities, likewise
displays a couple of trifling peculiarities. In
order not to spoil its effect we give the item in its
entirety : —“ The foundations of the unfinished
portions of the Town Hall are not very orna-
mental ; but they serve the useful purpose of
enclosing ft coni for table stable for an alderinanic
steed. The animal in question is of the same kind
as The Barb, only differing from that famous
animal in sex and in the style of its head, that of
the first mentioned steed being described as re-
sembling a dromedary. Who grooms it, and who
does it belong to?” The Barb, if it “ resembles a
dromedary,” cannot bo otherwise considered than
as a hippie phenomenon of a very remarkable
kind ; while, perhaps, not less extraordinary in
its way is the grammar of the concluding period.
Who grooms it, and who does it belong top”
Oh, dear ! The spasm is over, and
we feel better now, but we are certainly of the
opinion that the fewer the libel cases the News
loses, the less will Lindley Murray “squirm” in
his coffin.
The under-clipped brevity from the same issue
of our vespernal classic is also worthy of notice :
Rlany citizens wish to know where Alderman
RTElhone was during the City Council meeting on
Thursday afternoon. It would be interesting, and
not unimportant, to know Mr. M‘Elhone’e opinion
on the subject.” There is satire, truly.
It is said that “rats and conquerors inust ex-
pect no mercy in misfortune.” If this be true
Ninny will have a poor time of it after the next
election. For —
’Tis our opinion,
Funereal Ninian,
Elect of the County of Coal ;
That on cool reflection.
The boys next election
Will, without fail.
Shove you at the tail.
Oh, quite at the tail of the poll!
Oh skinny,
Nin-ninny
Now, hark you!
And mark you!
They will without fail
Shove you at the tail,
Yes! right at the tail of the poll 1
When the Evening Lyre wishes to intimate
to its readers that there has be«n another con-
flagration it says that ii the fire-fiend has again
broken loose in Sydney.** Like “Mobled Queen **
Fire-fiend *’ is “ good.'*
James Fulton, of Gonlburn, is evidently
advertisement of some freehold property he has
to let, he is delivered of the following magnificent
poetic burst: —
“ Ifs never.failing- water was a friend
To all who would their wayfaring that way bend:
f nue cannot mar its beauty as he goes;
It flows serene through valleys of repose.”
Now, there is, wo contend, a large amount of
originality about this stanza. If in the second line
the iambics hobble a bit, what matter ? The grace-
ful alliteration arising from the three w’s would
more than compensate for any mere mechanical
blemish. An additional interest, however, at-
taches to the verse as far as we are concerned,
from the fact of its being so much in the stylo of
the Parkesan poetry. This extract from the
Premier’s immortal epic, “ Our Coming Country-
men,” will conclusively prove, albeit in troches
that Mr. Fulton is an humble Parkesian follower
of Sir Eenory :
“ Know ye, gentlemen are they
Who in open and lylight say,
England’s convicts they prefer
To yon pauper-scum.froiu her.”
We do not, of course, pretend that the Gonlburn
bard has reached, or indeed will ever attain, the
eminence in lyrical literature that the gifted
author of “Murmurs of the Stream” can fairly
lay claim to ; but we venture to prophesy that if
he perseveres Mr. Fulton will, in course of time,
be fully qualified for the position of poet laureate'
if not of England, at least of—Callan Park.
Last week’s Freeman’s Journal nnblush-
ingly observes that “ A large shark was recently
caught at Southport, Queensland. The Curator
of the Rfuseum held an inquest on it and pro-
nounced it to belong,” &o. Wo congratulate the
journal in question upon the delicately playful
humour embodied in this item. For it is humour,
isn tit ? If not, what, in thunder, is it?
This fact is not mentioned as a coincidence : but
last Sunday was the twenty-sixth anniversary of
the pastorate of a certain fiery rev gentleman, and
th s Quarter Sessions there are 85 prisoners for
trial!
And.so the ill-starred Mr. M‘Gregor Greer is
dead. Well, taking all things into consideration,
his demise is “a happy issue out of all his
troubles.” The subject, however, is too painful
for prose. Lot us try it in verse. The tragedy
I has ended. Let us therefore call our verses
The Daily Telegraph is, it would seem, at
times, short of material for “ leader copy •” for
in a recent issue, it devotes the greater part of a
column to an article which pretends to discuss the
question of erecting a statue in Westminster
Abbey to the late Prince Imperial. The Tele-
geaph states that it is “glad the proposal has
been rejected by the House of Commons,” for the
whole affair was a mistake. Now there is no
harm in this little essay so far ; there is even good ;
for, doubtless when the populace of Great Britain
discover that the action of their Parliamentary
representatives is endorsed by the Sydney Daily
Telegraph there will bo rejoicings culminating
in a general illumination ; and as general illumin-
ntions are invariably good for trade, certain sec-
tions of the community will derive benefit from
the Telewaggish lucubration.
It is, however, to_ other portions of the article
that we take exception ; and even then, we would
state, not necessarily because we approve of this
particular scheme by which to perpetuate the
memory of the poor young prince amongst us ; but
simply because we instinctively deprecate any at-
tempt—no matter from whom that attempt may
originate—to treat with disrespect the helpless
dead. In reference to the project, which it may
be observed, emanated with Her Majesty the
Queen, the paper referred to further grinds out
the following : —“ The strong good sense of the
House of Commons has disregarded such sickly
sentimentality, and has preserved the resting-
place of the illustrious dead of Britain
from the proposed desecration.” Now “dese-
cration” is a good word, and, to tell the
truth, we were somewhat surprised to find
such an elaborate polysyllable in the Tele-
graph vocabulary. On coming to the conclusion
of the article, however, wo marie the discovery—
and not a very surprising one —that the writer had
borrowed ” the expression from a contemporary
poet. He says:—“ To show how strong is the
feeling that has been evoked in England on this
subject, we quote the following sonnet by Swin-
burne, published in his Songs of the Spring-
tides, the exceeding bitterness of which we do
not endorse. The sonnet is ‘On the Supposed
Desecration of Westminster Abbey by the Erec-
tion of a Monument to the Son of Napoleon the
Third.’ ” We fail to see that a sonnet by Swin-
boume —notoriously the most lewd and blas-
phemous poet of the age—can be a criterion of
public feeling on any subject; nor can we quite
comprehend why, when the Televvag adopts
Swinburne’s own term “ desecration,” that it
should not endorse the “ extreme bitterness ” of
the poem.
Of what kind of poetry the sonnet is composed
may be seen from the first four lines, que void; —
“ ‘ Let us go hence.’ From the inmost shrine
Where England holds the elect of all her dead
There comes a word like one of old time said
By gods of old cast out." 1
However, the sonnet consorts well with the article,
and the article with the sonnet, so we suppose it
is another instance of the “eternal fitness of
things.” For our part we consider that both the
writer of the leader and the singer of the sonnet
might read with advantage the following
Ah, get ye hence! If ye’ve no better aim
Than to bespatter with dull words the dead.
And urge that desecration's in a name
In God’s name, get ye hence!
Mr. O’Connor, gaol surgeon, is a very fortunate
young man. He obtained his qualification in the
mother country and returned almost immediately
to N.S.W., the land of Ins birth. Then ho, or his
friends, or both, worked the political oracle, and
when two or three and twenty he was appointed to
his present lucrative and responsible position by
the Fitzpatrick Government—who, it may paren-
thetically be remarked, appear in distributing
patronage generally to have regarded blood as
being thicker than water and much thicker than
political principle. It may further bo observed
that Mr. O'Connor was not publicly known to have
in any special manner distinguished him-
self professionally or to possess attainments which
rendered him more suitable for the post than the
many old and able practitioners who unsuccessfully
applied for it. However that may be. it is quite
certain that Mr. O'Connor hud i friend at Court.and
that that friend in thus filling the vacant position
was actuated by some motive of which the general
public are not supposed to have cognisance. Mr.
O Connor’s method of treating his patients at the
gaol appears to have met with the disapproval of
a confinee, who after his release wrote an article
“Oakum Pickings,” commenting on the
surgeon s conduct in terms which, especially in
view of the condition of the local libel law, were
outrageously indiscreet Some of the phrases '
applied to Mr. O’Connortkerein were syntactically
very neat and graphic ; but a sympathising jury
has now poured balm into the surgeon’s wounds by
giving -£ooo damages against the proprietors of
the Evening News, which published the article
Here again Mr. O’Connor's luck follows him. j
Viewed in its true light, the verdict given in
O'Connor v. Evening News was an utterly
ridiculous one. The plaintiff modestly claimed
.£20,000 on account of the libel and its moral and
material results. His soul is young and if it be
tender we who have read the now celebrated
article do not wonder that on perusing it Mr.
O Connor conjured up a vision of wigs and briefs
and damages. But the material aspect of the
libel is quite another affair. We do not dispute j
Mr. O’Connor’s assertion that since the publica-
tion of the article his private practice, stated at
the neat average of .£3OO per annum, has fallen off
to the extent of =£4 per week. But we do certain,
deny that any connection can reasonably be estlk 7
hehed between the alleged cause and effect
only must Mr. O Connor bo subject to the ordinal
uncertainties of practice, but he, like even tk* 7
practitioners who are at the top of the medio!t
tree must for some time past have felt the forced
that resistless tornado which rushes past allonafk
and biack draughts to Mr. Milner S tit hen
odic force. We can even go still further and
say that the article for which damages have h«„
awarded him was calculated to be of immen!?
direct benefit to his practice. We know a leadin
medical man in another colony who dates his Dr „s
Parity from the day on which ho was tried for hi«
life on a charge arising out of an affair his con
nection with which certainly did him no special
credit; and wo know dozens of doctors who after
years of practice have substantially come to the
conclusion that notoriety is a more powerful factor
in bringing about professional success than mere
merit. In America they understand these thin™
better. The fact that in the States the libel law ih
comparatively lax is after all only an outcome of the
American’s wise appreciation of the value of
i advertising. You abuse him in the newspaper and
ho is grateful for it. People can't form a solid
opinion ibout others whom they don’t know. A
great many citizens who had never before heard of
even Mr. O'Connor are now acquainted with at least
his name. However, in America ho would have
only got the advertisement; in Now South Wales
ho gets the advertisement and the damages too.
That species of burlesque torture and setting of
pedagogal conundrums known as the “ Civil Ser-
vice Examination,” is heightened in ridiculous
absurdity by the papers set for the late examina-
tion. An analysis of the same will be interesting
but far from edifying. To be secure against a
repetition of the surreptitious obtaining of papers
from a printer’s devil, the questions were scrawled
in an abominable hand by some feeble old gentle-
’ aTld taking the doubtful caligraphy and
adding the nervousness of the candidate, the
probability of error in the replies was increased
tan-fold. In the English paper thewords “ have ”
in the seventh, “ immure ” in the fourteenth, and
luminous” in the fifteenth lines, were so
obscurely written as to puzzle even us, who are not
and were not struggling for the valuable certificate.
1 he historical paper is a lesson in spelling, as it has
the word “Vicount” (sic) as a sample thereof
and the paper is headed Civil Service History'.
Hi e absence of dots over the i’s must confuse a
’ a ri d in the geographical paper the spelling
ot Capo Horn with a small c, is not at all instruc-
“Jje- Before an examination candidates are told
that the arithmetical questions only extend to
Simple Proportion, but, this time, without warn-
ing, a complicated problem in Practice is. inserted
just as a joke. The test papers are a disgrace to
any school-boy; and their solution is rendered
almost impossible, the whole time allowed being
occupied in deciphering the writing. Leaving
out the absurdity of a boy being compelled to
know how a certain monarch ascended the throne
to qualify him to deliver a letter at a post office
window, to add up a column of figures or to collect
tickets at a railway station, the whole of this
solemn farce is so transparent a joke that it
behoves the authorities to stop its being played
and to substitute something more dignified and
genuine.
PEEPS IN THE THEATRE.
PEEP THE NINTH—THE TWO BETSYS.
BY QUIZ.
Jttst at tho present tjmo we are so circumstanced that
there is really only one theatre and one company of
players to notice. The poor old “ Vic.” is now no more,
she will soon be the subject of an inquest to be held
over her charred remains and the coroner’s verdict will
undoubtedly be, died from spontaneous combustion.
But the old theatre replete with happy memories will
not rest with such a cursory notice as tho above. Her
defunct ‘‘majesty’’ shall, at some future date, have a
Peep ’ entirely devoted to a retrospective sketch ef
her life’s history. Now, let us turn to the Royal and
forget, in laughing at the two Betsys, to weep o’er the
ruins of the Vic. By that truly English name, Betsy
Baker, Miss Annie Taylor assumes the part of Betsy,
the youngest of sixteen sisters, “ all girls, sir,” she
assures Mr. Crummy. Her acting is excellent —she
dresses the part to perfection, her clean pink print
gown, with the sleeves pinned up well above the elbow —
so suggestive of the wash-tub she has left —the clean
white apron fresh from the mangle, evidently tied on
previous to running over with Mrs. Mouser’s shawl;
her tears and noisy sobs when trying to make old
Mouser call her Betsy ; her ringing laughter, even when
she doesn’t know why she’s laughing, and the hearty,
if tumultuous applause which always greets her
appearance on the “ boards” speak more for her sterling
qualities as an actress —iu her particular line—than any
praise my pen cau indite. Of the three-act comedy
which follows I might briefly say, it was good all round ;
but, although Garner as Dolly was good—his make-up
especially and Miss Stammers as Betsy was pretty,
piquante and pert, all in a breath—though Marion
Stammers as Mrs. Birkett looked and acted her part
better than any we have hitherto seen her in, I cannot
individualise any one of them until I come to our clever
comedy man, F. Marshall, as Mr. Samuel Dawson. His
sedate yet inquisitive face, as he peers through his
ffoggles at Mrs. Birkett, his Datin quotations given at
random, his quizzically-horriiied look when she
questions him on morality, are all good ; but the scene
in his pupils study eclipses all. At his ’* now, gentle-
man ! as he scats hi mself without moving a muscle, whilp
his promising pupils proceed to “ light-up ” their studied
inattention, coming to a climax as he reads out the
sentence, “ some bodies are attrasted by other bodies,"
the pupils look at each other and burst out laughing
Talbot commences to sing a comic song and the
tutor, who has risen in apparent despair, has a little
” break-down,” all to himself. Then when surprised by
the fussy old father, (he relaj>ses os suddenly into the
grave preoccupied tutor. His ready answers given so
deliberately, and his solemn unmoved countenance as
he slyly winks at his pupils, preparatory to intoning the
French lesson, bis ready assurance when confronted by
his wife, are all inimitable. From beginning to end the
‘‘Friend of the family" makes the piece. His quiet
vein of fan is marvellous, his gravity when nil around
are laughing at him, is a study well worth going to see.
From the well-filled houses that nightly greet tho two
Betsys, they are likely to continue their respective
characters for some time longer, on tho well-worn
principle that we cannot havetoo much of a good thing
It was the birth of a grandchild which inspired
Alfred Tennyson to write his “De Prefundis," in the
May number of the “ Nineteenth Century.”
THE EPILOGUE.
Draw the screen—he is dead,
And the light from those eyes
For ever is fled,
All rigid he lies.
That face, once so fair.
With its bright, healthful dyes.
Is set in a horrible stare.
He loved—that poor sonl—
. He loved a-what ?—well,
A woman that stole
From the Devil in Hell
All that's false. One that lied
Like a true Jezebel.
He loved her—and died!
She lives, and will live;
S k)u will travel af it ;
Will strenuously strive
To get rid of that scar J
But change of place.
Change of dress and of name—
These will never efface
The deep mark of her shame.
He lives, and grows strong
In a hospital ward;
And thoughts of the wrong
He has dona don’t afford
Him a feeling of pain I
He mends quick—will grow well
Will betray once again-
Perchance—who can tell ?


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
M. Soudry resigns,
attend Bennett’s benefit.
Servant girls are badly wanted,
petersham has no School of Arts.
Fowls are missing in Marrickville.
“ Widow Welch ” is in trouble again.
More doctors are wanted at the Infirmary.
Denominational schools are on the increase.
The Ddbbo Dsspatch is now a bi-weekly.
Diphtheria is very prevalent in the suburbs.
The “ Newtown Thunderer” is becoming pious.
Ketten has opened in Brisbane to a good house.
Turkey is preparing to resist the Great Powers.
Trade in New Zealand is momentarily depressed.
Wagga has a gambling den, kept by a China-
man.
The net profit on last Y.B.C. meeting was
£5,754.
Temora will certainly have three papers—pos-
sibly four.
At Parkoa Medlyn’s reef is turning out
splendidly.
Latest cables state that Mr. Gladstone’s health
is improving.
Reductions in the police force are being made in
New Zealand.
Cumberland disease has broken out among
horses at Largs.
Brisbane Exhibition receipts, .£1,614: number
of visitors, 31,000.
Gas meters are for the company’s, not con-
sumers’ convenience.
At Colac, Vic., a child has died through taking
s wring prescription.
The Ida Reef prospectors, Maytown, Palmer,
have struck rich gold.
Te Whiti and other Maori fanatics are again
causing trouble in N.Z.
The Hon. John Sutherland and Mr. John Woods,
J.P., stand for Kedfem.
Hundreds are out of employment at Wellington
and Christchurch, N.Z.
A Meat Export Company, capital =£60,000, has
been formed in Brisbane.
Mountain Maid, Barrington, latest crushing—
-271 tons for 1199 oz. 12dwt.
The Mountain Maid, Maytown, Palmer, are
jetting very rich specimens.
The Wollongong people intend to export butter
by the Orient meat-steamers.
Vale (Attorney-General), Williams, Berry and
Etchardson are to be opposed.
The La Hogue, with 395 immigrants, left Ply-
mouth for Sydney on 29th ult.
The Auckland telegraph station is the most
economically managed in N.Z.
A. G. Grant, an Auckland (N.Z.,) auctioneer,
has died from the effects of drink.
A girl, five years old, going to school, was run
over by a tram-carat Dunedin, N.Z.
The Conglomerate (Palmer district) proapectsors
have met with favorable indications.
Gold has been found in payable quantities, it is
said, on the Holwood estate, Blayney.
The City Improvement Board has signed the
death warrants of many more rookeries.
The Industrial Exhibition recently held at
Christchurch, N.Z,, realised a profit of £159.
Father tl’Roilly, one of the first priests who
landed in New Zealand, has died at Wellington.
“ Old Yarvy,” an aboriginal with a very long
memory, died at Gundagai Hospital Saturday week. •
The N.Z. Shipping Company has declared a
dividend, and carried a large sum to the reserve fund.
All mortgages are exempt from payment of
stamp duties but Building Societies' mortgages. Why ?
A young man named Jas. Crowle was stabbed
in the region of the heart at a low house, Invercargill,
N.Z.
Several railway employes of long standing have
received notice that their services are to be dispensed
with.
Ned Kelly has been removed to Beechwortb.
He thinks ho will escape the gallows, and is in good
spirits.
The reward of ,£3OO in connection with the
Dunedin, (N.Z.) Athenaeum arson case has been dis-
tributed.
A big company is being formed, in Adelaide to
test the sugar-growing capabilities of the Northern
Territory.
An old Auckland settler, who arrived at the
Bay of Islands at the time of Hoki’s war, has died at
the ago of 80.
Lowest tenderers for the supply of 20 locomotives
for the Victorian railways — the Phoenix .Foundry, Bal-
larat, £59,490.
A Waimato (N.Z.) settlor was stuck up by two
gentlemen with revolvers. One of them has been com-
mitted for trial.
Our report of St. Vincent’s Ball, which took
place last night and was a brilliant success, is unavoid-
ably held over.
Australian Eleven v. Gloucester. —Australians,
first innings, 110; Gloucester, six wickets for 120.
Match proceeding.
Speciol attention is requested to Mr. Charles
Lewis’ advertisement respecting his improved steam
«ooking apparatus.
A Boy named Peters was committed to the In-
dustrial School, Invercargill, N.Z., for stealing from
the Baptist Church.
The election deposit of Mr. Tytherleigh, late
candidate fer Normanby, Vic., has been attached at the
instance of his creditors.
The new pocket suburban time-tables, produced
by M. Vautin, are exceedingly neat, and very cheap. He
has made one for each station.
Several letters have appeared in the Adelaide
daily press warning people against the irreligious ten-
dencies of Mr. Proctor’s lectures.
Mr. J. J. Wallace, a fine actor and a good fellow,
w hom the world has not of late acted very kindly,
benefits on 17th inst. at the Queen's.
Landladies whom defaulting boarders sue for
illegal detention of luggage should apply for postpone-
ment until they sue the boarders for debt.
Madame Lotti Wilmot yesterday obtained a
veadict for £l5O damages against the EvßNisoNiiws
tor libel. She conducted her own case.
f Allison, of Adelaide, has engaged Ketten
J9 r September. The great musician is now under a £5O
bight engagement to Mr. John Bennett.
In to-day’s issue will be noticed the advertise-
Mr. and Mrs. Booth, especially interesting to
mvalids requiring hydropathic treatment.
The Insurance Companies must be suffering in
t:? w Zealand. A fire lias taken place daily in one or
otner of the various toWus for some time past.
On Saturday, what is expected to prove a grand
“ay s coursing takes place at Mr. Walter Lamb’s
oodstock Kstate. Mr. Lamb has spent a great deal
_lj n adapting his magnificent acres to this good
v English sport and hares are very plentiful. It is to
oped that those interested will avail themselves of
‘neir opportunity. A train leaves for Rooty HiU at
mae a.m.
Messrs. Julian Thomas (“ The Vagabond”), Joe
Eckford, and J, Albert Gorrick run for Wollorabi. Mr
F- Higgins will in all probability also reoeire a requi-
sition.
At the inquest on Mr. Greer’s remains the jury,
who were much impressed by the splendid physique of
deceased, found that he shot hiuibelf while temporarily
insane.
Melbourne larrikins now garotte people by las-
sooing them with ropes. Another instance of the me-
chanical ingenuity and high principle which protection
develops.
Wm. G. Goodisou. at Dunedin N.Z., has been
sentenced to 28 days' imprisonment, without the option
of fine, for assaulting a publican named Moss with a
loaded whip.
Mr. E. Newman Scott, a well-known journalist,
proceeded on Wednesday to Temora, for whose denizens
he will ere long probably provide a little theatrical
amusement.
Judgiag from the zeal of its promoters the Select
Quadrille Party to be given on the 13th August at the
new Glebe Town Hall, by one of our Debating Societies,
will be a decided success.
The Government, by proclamation in the
Gazette of 21 school districts, embracing several of
the ce' tres of population in the colony, has taken the
first step towards bringing the compulsory clauses of
the Public Instruction Act into operation.
A plentiful crop of candidates for legislative
honors is preparing for the Newtown campaign. The
most prominent candidates announced are Messrs. S.
C. Brown, MX. A., W. J. Foster. MX.C., J. P. Smith
fex-Mavor of Newtown), Robert Fowler (Mayor of
Sydney), and Bedford.
The proposed benefit to Mr. John Bennett is
some kind of a substantial recognition of his public
spirit and his past liberality. The Victoria was always
first ready for anv charitable performance, and it is a
good move for the citizens to endeavour to place him
safe against his losses by the recent fire.
The Afghans, after completely destroying 2,000
out of the 3,000 troops forming General Burrowes’ divi.
sion, are beseiging the survivors who escaped to Can-
dahar. That city, whiph has been a pivot in the history
of Central Asia, for more than 2,000 years, has on a
precipitous height a fortress impregnable to everything
bat heavy artillery. General Phayre is marching to
the relief of General Burrowes, and expects to fight a
decisive battle with Avoub Khan before reaching the
citv. 10,000 additional troops are being sent forward
from England.
Mortlake, Parramatta River.
We pive in another part of this issue a sketch of
that charming spot on the Parramatta Hirer known
as Mortlako. _ It has already been rendered famous
by the descriptions of the many boat-races that
have taken place on the Parramatta. Ee-
cently the portion of Mortlake bordering on
Major’s Bay was split up into several advanta-
geous building sites. These were offered lately
at auction by Messrs. Mills, Pile and Co.,
and many were readily bought up. The re-
mainder are for sale to-day (Thursday), when the
whole are certain to be disposed of for building
sites.
The Country Killed Meat Mart.
The building shown in the illustration, on page
12, is situated at the corner of George and Engine
streets. Haymarket, in this city, and is used as a
depot for the supply of country killed meat to
Sydney and suburbs. The business was started
some twelve months ago by Messrs. P. Salisbury
and Co., contractors for pure country milk, but
the large trade done eansjed the meat and milk
business to be separated, Mr. Moodie, the present
proprietor, taking the meat department under his
own control. The premises are always filled with
splendid moat from the country, and on Friday
evenings the stock ready for Saturday’s trade is
quite an exhibition, and will well repay a visit.
We understand that about 800 customers are sup-
plied daily by the carts, which can be seen all
over the city and suburbs, and which from their
clean and neat appearance are always very at-
tractive. There is also a good cash trade, and on
Saturday evenings it is almost impossilo to servo
the many customers who are anxious to got a good
joint of country killed meat for their Sunday’s
dinner. Great opposition has been met with, and
owing to the large trade done at this establish-
ment several shops hare been opened, proclaiming
themselves depots for “country killed moat;”
but the one under notice was the pioneer, and
cannot but continue to secure the trade of the
city. A large number of families in various parts
of the city are of course unaware of the existence
of the depot, but wherever the fact becomes known
the custom is immediately secured, the conve-
nience and cleanliness of the mode of delivery by
carts being always recognised.
Mr. Frederick Marshall.
I We have much pleasure in printing on page 13 of
to-day’s issue a portrait of Mr. Frederick Marshall,
j the well-known and accomplished actor attached
I to the London Comedy Company, now playing at
the Theatre Royal. Mr. Marshall is a son of Mr.
I C. F. Marshall, actor, manager, author and com-
poser who died in 1879 in his 84th year, and whose
j name was a household word among English pro-
fessionals. The subject of our present sketch is
of English parents, was born in 1848 and has thus
I “all the world before him,” though his profes-
sional career, from the night on which, at the age
of five ho sang between the pieces on the stage of
the Royal, Glasgow (his native city) or with
his family, known collectively as “ The Children
of Momus,” travelled through the English
I provinces, to the period at which he first assumed
leading roles in Gilbert’s brilliant comedies, has
been one of uninterrupted success. lie is the
worthy descendent of generations of actors. In
1369 and the year following he was second come-
I dian at the new Theatre Royal, Bristol, where he
commenced to develop his great aptitude for
burlesque: in 1371 he joined a travelling company
and delighted people with his “Quilp” in the
“ Old Curiosity Shop. Thereafter he was succes-
sively first low comedian and principal character
actor at Nottingham Theatre Royal, and for throe
years a prime favourite at the Prince of Wales.
Liverpool. Then followed most successful short
pantomime seasons in Manchester and London, in
I which latter place, by the way. he played “ Peter
Probity in “the Chimney Corner,” and gained
the highest eulogies of the most competent metro-
politan critics. After giving many more proofs
of his innate ability and cultured power he was
engaged by Mr. W. S. Gilbert to play Mousta the
dwarf in “ Broken Hearts,” and in this character
not only gained the most valuable of all praise—
that of the celebrated author of the piece—but
demonstrated that ho was something more than a
more low comedian and that he could mingle
shadow and sunshine as Robson did. Then he
joined “ Our Boys’ ” company as Perkyn Middle-
wick, alternating it with Percy Pendragon, in
Married in Haste”—playing both charac-
ters with splendid success ; after ful-
filing subsequent English engagements and
doing an American tour with Miss Lydi i Thomp-
son s company and subsequently appearing at
the Vaudeville, London, in ‘*Our Boys,” he made
a final provincial tour with “ The Two Roses,”
fulfilled some special engagements at the Boyal
and Gaiety, Dublin, and left England for Aus-
tralia, and made his first Antipodean appearance
at Melbourne. In the words of a well-known
dramatic writer of the Southern city, “Mr. Mar-
shall’s popularity is owing to merit only, and not
to any accidental or adventitious circumstances.
He is, in short, one of the most thorough stage
humourists we have ever seen, and everybody
hopes he is never going tojleave us.”
The Building Trades in the Suburbs.
A ramble through the suburbs of Sydney will
prove that the development of trade is going on
as rapidly there as in the metropolis, and that busy
centres of industry are being created where, but a
few years back, there was hardly a trace of a
dwelling. Paddington has notably kept pace in
this respect with the general advance. As an
instance, the business of Mr. W. Eylos, contractor
and builder, may be mentioned. Mr. Eyles’s estab-
lishmont, a sketch of which is herewith given,
stands at the corner of Paddington and Cascade
streets. It was constructed specially to meet the
requirements of the business and to afford roomy
and healthy workshops for the artizans employed
on the premises. The business of the proprietor
being mainly in building-contracts, means were
required for the extensive and expeditious manu-
facture of doors, sashes, stairs, architraves, etc.,
ahd the establishment has the latest and most
approved appliances for the work, in the shape of
saw-benches, morticing, tennoning, and shaping
machines. All these are driven by steam power
located at the basement, and communicating with
the upper floor by means of shafts and pulleys.
The workshops are extensive—the machine apart-
ment measuring 15 x 30. and that allotted to the
joinery concerns 60 x 25—and accommodate fifteen
to twenty men, some of the best tradesmen obtain-
able in the city being employed therein. Altogether
about forty men are kept constantly at work, either
on the promises or on the contracts, and the work
being under Mr. Eyles’s own supervision is always
carried out in first-class style. The proprietor has
recently finished some large hotels and private
residences iu the suburbs, and the style through-
out has been pronounced both substantial and
elegant. .At present Mr. Eyles is engaged on
several contracts in different parts of the city and
suburbs. A visit to this establishment just now
will be altogether inteiesting.
More Facts about Life Assurance.
Thh quinquennial report of the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society, which has just been issued,
contains very satisfactory evidence of the progress
of the association, and gives some further interest-
ing facts on life assurance. It is quite clear from
the amount of solid progress which the Colonial
Mutual has made during the period now reported
on, that the principle of life assurance is being
more generally recognized. From 1874 to 1879,
the policies issued numbered 9085, while nearly
2000 additional were in progress towards comple-
tion at the conclusion of the period. Of the number
just mentioned, 8817 were for life and endowment
assurance for the sura of .£2,359,316, 264 for endow-*
rnent at .£41,750. The remaining four policies were
for annuities of .£204 per annum. The 9035 policies
issued were for .£2,411,066. Of these 7202 were
in force on the 31st March, 1879, the close of the
investigation period, and included in the valua-
tion. This large business is not therefore of an
ephemeral character, and its collation may be at-
tributed to the diligence of those who have had
the control of the Society’s affairs in the several
federated colonies. The gross liability attach-
ing to the 7202 policies on the books is shown in
the valuation to be .£788,835, while the present
value of the future premiums, with the funds in
hand, amount to £1795,679, giving a balance or
surplus of .£6844. The principles on which the
valuation has been conducted .are in accordance
with the latest development of actuarial science,
as the whole of the formulae used by Mr. Robert
Thomson, F.1.A., the Society’s actuary in the
colony, were approved by Messrs. Thomas Bpnd
Sprague, M.A., F.1.A., of Edinburgh, agentloman
who may be regarded as the recognised head of
the actuarial profession in Great Britain; and
George King, F.1.A., lecturer to the Institute of
| Actuaries, London. And the English authorities
have themselves examined the detailed actuarial
work, and certify to the accuracy of the calcula-
tions and the legitimate nature of the surplus
which might fairly bo divided amongst the mem-
bers. The referees recommend the surplus to be
held over for another fire years and then divided
with interest among those of the present members
who remain on the books on the 31st March, 1881
and, with a slight modification, giving the repre’
sentatives of those who may die in the meantime
their share of the profit; and this recommendation
has been adopted. The results of the investigation
will be very gratifying to the members, and are
conclusive evidence of judicious administration ;
whilst the confederation principle on which it is
established forms a bond of union between the
members throughout the whole of Australia and
Tasmania, and the other places to which the
operations of the Society are extended. With this
brief notice of the business of the Society we prive
a sketch of the premises where the business in this
city is conducted. The edifice is a substantial
one, and_ well suited for the business. At the
present time, owing to increased trade, extensive
alterations are being proceeded with. The offices
tor the clerical work will occupy the base ; ai d the
board room, manager’s office, &c., will be on the
upper floor. The remaining portions of the
premises will be devoted to the other bi a aches of
the society’s business.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A club ball in a temporary ball-room is talked of.
Mr. Gladstone —cables inform ua—is seriously
ill.
May sth was the ex-Empress Eugenie’s 54th
birthday.
Mr. Justice Higinbotham is to bobanquetted by
the Victorian Bar.
Mr. M’lntyre, late M.L.A. for Sandhurst, is, we
are sorry to hear, seriously unwell.
Our coming Trickotts now row round Lady Mac-
quarie's Chair in an objectionably nude state.
they’ll have to be soaked in warm *water ere they'll
come off.
They say that Prince Louis of Hesse (widower
of the Princess Alice) wants to marry Princess Beatrice,
his deceased wife’s sister.
It is rumoured that a Shoalhaven gentleman ia
about to lead to the hymeneal altar the fair and accom-
plished sister of the ex-Mayor.
Owing to her late accident every sudden or loud
noise that the Princess Louise hears brings on severe
pains and inflammation in the ear.
The body of Mr. Cowlishaw, of Melbourne, who
was drowned at Hokitika, N.Z.. whilst transhipping' from
the Albion, has not yet been found.
Very few literary men followed poor Walter
Cooper’s body to the grave. Was it the inconvenient
hour or the want of mourning suits ?
Mr. M’lntyre. late M P. for Sandhurst, has
brought n libel action against the Aon, with damages
laid at £5OOO, for attributing to him corruption.
It is Sir John Robertson’s boast that never in
all his life has he been the reverse of polite to a woman
and that he invariably treats all women as ladies.
An examination for captaincy in the N.S.W.
Artillery takes place this month. Some fancy the
heavy horse. Betting is ovon on the field, bar one.
Great preparations are being made for the ball
to be given by the Mayor of Parramatta; everything is
to be done in His Worship’s usual openhanded stylo.
It is perfectly true that Mr. Berry intends to
bring in a bill to legalize marriage with a wife’s sister.
Mr. Service will vote with him on this occasion only.
J. De Poix Tyrel is the handsomest man in the
Queensland Assembly, and one of the biggest men in
Australia. As his uamedenotes, he is of an old Norman
family.
We understand that Mr. R. Fifcz-Stubbs, who
is at present following his profession of music at
Maitland, has been appointed organist of St. Paul’s
Church.
We are glad to hear that Dr. Has tie, of the
, Infirmary, has recovered from the shock he received
lost week owing to the instability of a Central Police
Court chair.
Mrs. Algernon Sartoris (daughter of the Presi-
dent and formerly Nellie Grant) is now in London, and
is looking extremely pretty. Her little girl has been
named Vivian.
Harry Hydes, from Maitland, pupil of Signor
Qiorza, is one of the ablest pianists in Sydney. He is
not yet seventeen years of ago, and weighs seventeen
stone eight pounds.
That charitable lady, Mrs. Austin, is going to
build at her own expense an hospital for incurables.
Mubocrnk Punch observes that this is the right kind
of AusißN-tation of wealth.
Colonial literature has lost a friend in Walter
Cooper, who, for a few mouths prior to his untimely
death, was actively engaged on a work he called " The
Political History of Australia."
It is a noteworthy fact that Mr. Hoskins, the
present Minister for Lauds, has, on no occasion during
a political experience of 22 years, been rejected by any
constituency to which ho has presented himself.
Stephen Longfellow, nephew of the poet, has
jumped his bail bu a charge of forgery, and sailed for
South America. This young man, we presume, moans
to leave several "footprints on the sands of time.’’
The South Australian Minister for Education
and proprietor of the Adelaide 'Tizhh, was, at one
period of his existence, a butcher-boy. Can his
elevation be taken as a sign that the times are out of
joint ?
A rumour ia on foot (says Babylon) to the effect
that the doctors will declare Mrs. Greer insane, and send
her to the Lunatic Asylum. Public feeling is against her.
she has but little sympathy, and no chance in Mel-
bourne at present.
We hear that there is a great deal of bickering
between the heads of the Lands Department about the
various suites of apartments they require in the new
offices. Should they succeed in obtaining all their re-
quirements, their clerks will have to find quarters else-
where.
Mr. Gladstone is said to be the best Greek
scholar iu England, if not in Europe; aud when High
Commissioner to the lonian Islands, in 1859, he ad-
dressed the local Parliament in modern Greek with
much fluency and eloquence, to the astonishment of
the natives.
A mot of Sir John O’Shanassy:—The com-
mittee appointed to prepare the address in reply always
do their work in the Ministerial room, and therefore
Messrs. Berry, Gardiner, Quick, Ac., went thither.
“ What I" cried Sir John, who followed fast, “ are you
rushing their offices already ?”
An enterprising youth, whose astounding yarns
and inordinate conceit amused the members of the
Auckland Club (N.Z.) immensely, utilised his position
to obtain from various persons loans of money, and left
suddenly for Australia, leaving his I-O-U’s only, as
mementoes. Sydneyites, beware!
George Eliot” is after all really not married.
The person who has married Mr. Cross is Mrs. G. H.
Lewes, the legal widow of the philosopher, whose sepa-
ration from him took place many years ago under pain-
ful circumstances. The public knows nothing about
the legal Mrs. Lewes and cores less.
On the “ block,” the other day, we saw a brisk,
coquettish girl, who looks well when she dons a rather
more mamuline than feminine attire, viz., a “jersey."
On the other hand, maids or matrons unhappily well
stricken in years can only be described as old fools
when they venture on similar fantasies.
Senor Caatelar visits Oxford shortly for the
purpose of delivering a lecture on the points of re-
semblance and analogy, not only between Spanish and
English, but also between the institutions and early
municipal regime of both countries in the Middle Ages,
before the House of Austria entered the Peninsula.
Sir Hugh Allan, the great Montreal shipowner
aud capitalist, started life as a dry.goods clerk with a
capital of £2O. He is now reputed to l>e worth from ten
to fifteen million dollars, and, besides his shipping
interests,, is connected with nearly every manufactur-
ing and industrial enterprise in the province. His age
Ninny Melville has been absent three months
from his aldermanic seat in the Newtown Municipal
Council owing to press of legislative duties among the
colle< tive wisdom of the country, He telegraphed,
f wi Newcastle to the Council last Tuesday night week to
keep his seat warm, thereby saving his bacon. A Jolly
fellow was about to jump it.
The Mayor of Dunedin sits on what is quite a
“ throne," which cost £l6l 12s. 6d. However, the most
gorgeous aldermanic seats in the Australasias are, taken
all rouad, those of the members of the Fitzroy (Mel-
bourne) Council. King Solomon in all his glory
couldu t possibly have sported anything, or been sup-
ported by anything, half so imposing.
Mr. William H. Buzao tt, of the Rockhampton
Morning Bulletin, whose death was recorded in our
last issue, was born at South Moulton, Devonshire, on
th) 14th August, 1831. At 21 years he, accompanied by
hu brother, Mr. G. H. Buzacott, let London for
A istralia, and landed at Sydney on the 3rd September,
18)2. He remained here for eight years, when he left
lor Queensland. His noma was associated with almost


every popular movement and event in the history of
Rockhampton, and he had ever ftt heart the public
interest. Says the Daily Northern Argus : —“ We
may add our tribute of respect to his memory, and ex-
press our deep sympathy with those from whom he has
been taken away in the prime of his manhood, and
when, as he looked round upon those nearest and
dearest to him, life must have been of the greatest
value to him.”
Last week a stonemason was locked up for not
having paid the balance of a judgment debt for which,
twelve mouths ago, his household goods were sold off.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs, who, as everyone knows, is an inmate
of Dorlinghurst at present, was the means of procuring
the release of the unfortunate tradesman, the relent-
lessness of whose creditors involved the starvation of a
family.
A young gentleman in Brisbane at a banquet
recently was called upon (by virtue of his having been
married the day before) to propose the toast of “ The
Ladies," which he did in the following words—“ The
ladies, who rule without laws, decide without appeal,
judge without jury, and are never in the wrong.” He
is now up to his neck in a divorce action. He is the
plaintiff.
Mr. W. H. L. Bailey, who goes to Temora to
edit the Herald, aud who has for a considerable time
been shipping reporter for the Evening News, was en-
tertained by the E. N. and T. and C. J. staffs at a fare-
well dinner, at the Freemasons’ Hotel, on Saturday
night. The best wishes for Mr. Bailey’s success in his
new venture were expressed, and a very pleasant
evening was spent.
At the annual meeting of the Civil Service
Building Society on Thursday last a letter was read
from Sir Alfred Stephen, regretting his inability to
attend, as he was out of town. Such letters are always
truthful. But whose ghost was it we saw in a private
box at Ketten’s recital at the very moment when the
absence from town of its corporeal duplicate was being
read about at the meeting ?
At a suburban ball the other evening a lord of
creation was engaged to a young lady for a dance. She,
inadvertently (or otherwise) re-engaged herself to
another for the same event and danced it with him.
Then the lord of creation first aforesaid, after
using some very objectionable language, wanted the
man who'd “ cut him out ” to stand up, not for a dance,
but for a little mill, in the ball-room.
It is amusing to bear the number of causes to
which baldness is attributed. A well-known briefless
Sydney barrister’s son, who holds a not very exalted
position in the Civil Service of New South Wales, and
■who is chiefly remarkable for wearing a pre-Adamite hat
of enormous dimensions, ascribes his baldness to his
having formerly washed his head three times a day.
We believe, on good authority, that he has discontinued
this practice.
“Little Spitfire ” (says “ Angles”) has a theory
of his own (concerning the rush from the dress circle
of the Melbourne Opera. House on the occasion of the
Greer tragedy). He says that it soon got about that it
■was an aggrieved husband who was on the war-path.
And as few could make out the individuality of the
gentleman with the fire-arms, it was conscience, not
cowardice, that caused the palefaced, and agile rush
■down the stone stairs.
Old Mr. B- , who is very deaf, met Milner
Stephen in the Mercantile Bank the other morning.
Said he to Mr. S.: “ This is my watch. I hear it now,
■close to my ear. If you make me hear it six inches off
I’ll place a thousand at your credit; if you enable me to
hear its tick at arm’s length I’ll not stop at two
thousand.” We’re sorry—and so will all Mr. B ’s
other friends be sorry—to hear that the money still
forms part of his current account.
Mr. Disraeli was once arguing with a dis-
tinguished Frenchman on the copiousness of their
respective languages. The celebrated Tichbome case
was then being heard. The foreigner mentioned several
French words the comprehensiveness of which could
not be equalled by any English words. “ For instance,"
he said, “ you have no word in your language as ex-
pressive as our word canaille.” “Oh yea we have,”
said Benjamin, " but we pronounce it Eenealy 1”
At the assembly bat], on last Friday night, a
young lady of haut ton appeared in wkat is called the
" pin costume”—namely, a dress which does not require
the use of needle and thread. During the progress of
the ball various pins relinquished their hold. This
necessitated a speedy retreat to the dressing-room,
where repairs were effected. We suppose this story has
a moral, hut we do not know exactly what it is.
Some short time ago Mr. J. A. Reid, chief clerk
of the. Supreme Court, invented a pen which was to be
tilled with ink, and afford a day's supply to the writer
without his being inconvenienced by inkstands. Un-
fortunately for him the ingenious and ingenuous old
gentleman showed his invention to some supposed
friends, and, by a curious coincidence, a few months
afterwards the Mackinnon pea was brought from
America, in which country the discovery is acknow-
ledged to have been made in Sydney.
There is no greater swell in Adelaide—certainly
none so great as regards stature —than a certain
gentleman who is at once Judge’s Associate,
Lieutenant-Colonel of the Volunteer Military Force,
and heir presumptive a Dukedom, his father,
the brother of His Grace, only standing between
him and the title. And yet the name of this
“scion of a noble house” lately appeared as that
of the defendant in the local court in an unsatisfied,
judgment for, “Alas, an unpaid tailor’s hill." The case
was, however, settled out or court, to the regret of in.
numerable democrats, most of whom would not like to
be jiartiee to such an ignominious proceeding os this
geurJoman has airily passed through. However, we
have only heard the tailor’s story.
Paul Morrill, a former proprietor of the Sacra-
mento Union, which, under the management of James
Anthony, H. W. Lukin, and himself was in days gone
by one of the most influential Californian newspapers,
is dead. He had lost his fortune, the Union having
been ruined through railway extensions which gave the
Sau Francisco pa pens great advantages over it. His
paper, old Californian miners will remember, was always
conducted with great ability and singleness of purpose.
Its devotion to the interests of the people was never
during its existence called in question.
It is, we believe, one of the many boasts of Sir
Henry Parkes th»it he is a self-made man. This reminds
ns of an anecdote. An Euglish M.P. was recounting to an
American Senator the praises of President Johnson, who
succeeded Abraham Lincoln; and observing after a
while that the American was rather uneasy aud liked
not the subject said, “Well I don't know what you
think, but I consider that for a self-made man President
Johnson is really a wonder.” “ Well,” said the Ameri-
can, " if, as you say, he is a self-made man, all I can say
is this, that it releases God Almighty from a grave
responsibility.”
People have been wondering why they gave
so young and undistinguished a man so lucrative, im-
portant, and onerous a position. However, there are
“ wheels within wheels,” and perhaps that engagement
will now he consummated.
The assembly ball was held at Need’s rooms on
Friday night. Upwovds of 200 were present, including
some of the Hite of the city. Dancing commenced to the
strains of the German band, which as usual played an
excellent selection of dance music. Unlike former occa-
sions there was a paucity of the naval element. Some
officers of the D’Estrees, the French war steamer from
Noumea, were present, and received the usual amount
of attention accorded to distinguished foreigners in
Sydney. Lieut. Loftus, A.D.C., arrived about eleven
o’clock, in uniform, but did not remain long. As usual
the affair was early and select.
The defeat of the Service Government is a great
blow to the aspirations of some of the would-be great
men One of them refused knighthood on the under-
standing that if he contributed largely to public charities
he would be mode a baronet. As his income is said to
be nearer £300,000 than £200,000 a-year, he can figure
well in a subscription-list. This gentleman was not
appreciated at the Court of St. James, not being pre-
sented as he requested, but being sent back to the colony
to become a public man. Sir Salmon swears with a
mighty oath that he will not be left out in the cold
Knight, that he win be a bamm-knight, instead of a
Salmon knight.
Major Pitt, late private secretary to Sir George
Bowen, has hosts of friends everywhere in the colonies.
He is the personification of politeness, a true
friend, and altogether a first-rate specimen of the real
English gentleman. Many a man has envied him his
polished manners and fine personal appearance, and
many a belle has sighed for him in vain, for the Major
wasn’t a marrying man. We are sorry to hear that,
after many years spent in the colonial service, for which
he certainly evinced a special and most remarkable ap-
titude, he has rejoined his regiment now engaged in the
Afghan campaign. We learn that in October last he
was ordered by the doctors to leave Mauritius (where
Sir George Bowen is now stationed) for England. After
regiining his health, he set out for India, and is now at
Agra.
Very many stalwart young fellows will feel in-
clined to allow their impetuosity to overcome their
prudence when they read what the “Vagabond” (always
careful not to belie his name) says of the best and purest
in this fair city. Writing of the tableaux which formed
part of the entertainment recently given at Ash field in
aid of the Infants’ Home, “ The Vag” thus moralises:
—“There is a limit to this sort of thing, and not even
the plea of charity can excuse anyone passing as an
Egyptian harlot. But woman’s vanity and love of
display uow-o-days, the worship of the lust of the eye
(sir) is ruining society. • Moths’ and ‘ Nana' are both
true.” “ The Vag.” should ease off this kind of thing
ere it is too late. Those of whom he writes as above
are ladies who gave their services in the cause of
chanty, and who certainly do not merit abuse which
would not be applied by “ The Vagabond” or any other
journalist to professional actresses.
A Legend of the Nineteenth Century, B.C.— !
In Timbuctoo there dwelt a certain young man, whose
face always wore a smile. What sort of a smile it was
the chroniclers say not, out they all agree on the point
that it was gentlemanly. This yonng man aspired to
be a big medicine man and to enjoy the patronage of
the chief ruler, whoso playful habit it was to make
slaves of those who offended against his laws, and who
wished to keep in good health his many captives. The
chief ruler had a pretty daughter, and to her the medi-
cine man, though not of noble birth, offered his hand.
He was accepted, and, that he might with dignity be-
come the consort of the great man’s daughter, was
made medicine man of the State. To revert; to
nineteenth-century slang, he quietly took the billet,
jilted the daughter of his patron, and having got a good
Sosition wanted to marry the daughter of the man who
ept the keys of the treasure-house. But it didn’t
come off. ,
We believe that the following story has never
before been in print; but in any case it is well worth
telling. At the dinner given in Sydney to the officers of
the Kearsage (the Alabama’s victor) all the “ big-wigs”
were present, and among them Dr. Badliam, for whom
through some oversight, a place had not been reserved
at the raised table where sat, in the captain’s immediate
company, our most distinguished professional men.
The learned doctor naturally felt piqued and wittily re-
sented the slight. He had not been entrusted with
either the proposal or acknowledgment of a toast, but
he nevertheless contrived to get a word in “ edgeways”
after dinner. Some of the guests had made excessively
long and dreary speeches, and Dr. Badham accepted
that fact os his cue. Said he, pointing to the
Kearsoge’s huge Dahlgren,—“l see,Captain Thornton,
you have a very large gun on board the Kearsage.
We of Sydney also have some very great guns—of no
particular calibre, perhaps, but—strange paradox—of
most enormous bore. Take them all. Captain, and
welcome, and leave ns in exchange yonr Dahlgren.”
Sir William Jervois, the Governor of South Aus-
tralia, is a very indefatigable gentleman, and so far as
presiding at public gatherings of all kinds is concerned
affords not the faintest ground for discontent to the
happy people over whom he reigns as the vicegerent of
Her Majesty. He has been seen so much lately in
various capacities in the Adelaide Town Hall that he
may almost be said to have lived there. On a Thursday
evening he delivered a lecture, entitled “An Historical
Sketch of the Defences of England," under the auspices
of the Young Men’s Christian Association; on the
following night, His Excellency attended Mr. Proctor’s
lecture; on the Saturday night, he presided at Matthew
Barnett’s temperance lecture; and on the Monday and
Wednesday evenings he was again present at the Town
Hall at astronomical lectures. Since then, he has
occupied the chair at two or three annual meetings of
charitable associations at other places. But some
irreverent people, who have not the fear of dignitaries
before their eyes, say that His Excellency, like
many of less exalted station, is much more liberal with
his words and advice than with anything else.
Some three or four months ago Mr. Ebenezer
Ward, in turn reporter, journalist. Government clerk,
newspaper proprietor, secretary to Agricultural So-
ciety, political adventurer, M.P., Minister of the
Crown, Oppositionist, land selector and sheep farmer,
then being on the verge of making an insolvent
assignment, announced to his constituents in
Gumeracha, a country district of South Australia, his
impending resignation and intending departure from
the colony to N.Z. With a modesty that is his eminent
characteristic, he also left as a legacy certain advice.
This being given gratis, is likely to be appreciated
quite as much as most advice that costs nothing. No-
body ever expected that Mr. Ward would leave the
colony, for where else would he find the friends who,
with strange and persistent confidingness, have helped
him to keep afloat through his constantly recurring
difficulties these many years, indeed almost ever since
the commencement of Ms career ? Consequently after
Ms signal failure to recover damages for libel from the
proprietor of a small newspaper published at Port Ade-
laide, no one was surprised at finding him again taking
to the stump in ft small way. He has for the nonce
adopted his old profession of shorhand writer, and is
reporting select committees for the Assembly, but it is
hardly likely that having tasted the sweets of office
and the power of patronage and politics, his patriotism
—which some are ungenerous enough to cadi love of
notoriety—will allow him to remain long in so insigni-
cant though honourable a position. He is one of the
cleverest and readiest of Australian journalists.
Rosa Bonheur, the great French animal-painter,
leads the life of a recluse in her country house. Devoted
to her art, she has never married, and now that she has
advanced beyond the middle period of life she permits
nothing to distract her attention. In person she is
short and squarely built, passes her life under the best
physical conditions, looks healthy, and seems capable of
great endurance. The features of her face are small
and regular, her eyes a soft hazel. and her expression
one of dignified benignity. She has a low, pleasant
voice, and a direct sincerity of speech most agreeably
free from the artifices of compliment. Her grey hair is
cut and parted like a man’s, and nearly touches her
shoulders. Her dress, even when she i« receiving
visitors, has a suspicion of manliness. When she visits
Paris, or expects visitors at home, she wears the uniform
of her own sex; in her painting-room and in her walks
in the forest, the uniform of ,the other. This practice
dates from the time of her childhood. As an animal
painter, she had often to go out of the beaten paths to
find her subjects—-sometimes to the abattoirs. The
brutes were well-behaved, hut the slaughtermen often
not so. So she shortened her hair, exchanged the
bodice for blouse, and donned pantaloons.
The following is the new Berry Government:—
Mr. Berry, Premier. Chief Secretary, and Treasurer;
Mr. W. M. K. Vale, Attorney-General; Mr. J. B. Pat-
terson, Minister of Railways ; Mr. W. C. Smith, Minis-
ter of Education; Mr. R. Richardson (Creswick),
Minister of Lands ; Mr. H. E. Williams (Mauderang).
Minister of Mines; Mr. G. D, Laugridge
Public Works; Mr. A. T. Clark, Miffistfr of (S* ° f
Professor Pearson, without portfolio • Mr E r) St p DH;
representative in the Council, without portfolio
Education portfolio, it will be seen, is filled in an
ciaHy appropriate manner. Major Smith, the MiniSf
for Education, spells “recommend” with one *< .
and “ until" with two “ l’s," or, at any rate dirt J?’
last he was in office. When the “ Majaw" took hi» n
in the Minister’s room at the old Education
meut he began by writing some very bad grammar >
turning out an officer and a gentleman, still in the - v
of life, who had with honour and ability occuDiS"'
of the most important positions in the office for me
than a quarter of a century, and putting in his
the brother of a bookmaker, who had been within
recollection of many of the officers a barman Tv
worthy knew as much about the English laug'uatre “ S
did his patron. He wished to ingratiate himself
those over whom he hail been placed. Prior to hisUl
vent the officials had not been allowed to leave the
mises for lunch, so the new chief threw a sop to (v
berus in these elegant words: “I recomend that lb
officers of the department shall in future be allowed l
go out to lunch in three portions.” This is a solenm
historical fact. ri
The success of Matthew Burnett, the Temper
ance man, in Adelaide, if the statements put forth it
his various meetings be correct, must have been son!
thing marvellous. Mr. Burnett has had
night meetings in the Town Hall presided over bv tbl
principal grandees of the land, few of whom, however*
though advocates of temperance, are pledged to “ th ’
cup which cheers but not inebriates.” The Governor
the Chief Justice, the Anglican Bishop, the Chief Seerp’
tary, members of the Legislative Council and of *5T>
Assembly, the Mayor, medical men, and other bigwig
have each in turn occupied the chair and delivered
fervid orations to admiring crowds; the only brand of
discord which found its way amongst them being iv
speech of Mr. E. T. Smith, M.P., who, being a lar4
brewer, could not refrain from having his fling at the
intemperate views of-the extreme temperance people
As for Mr. Burnett himself, he is a wonderful man
so far as endurance goes. How—delicate aud phthisical-
looking as he is—he can week after week address several
meetings a day, tramp along the streets at night at the
head of a crowd singing hymns at the top of his lung-
power, and then winding up by speaking at another
public gathering, is most marvellous. His voice i«
harsh, guttural, and rasping, his manner awkward
and the great effect he produces can only be attributed
to the undaunted energy and evident sincerity of th*
man. It was mentioned at his lost meeting that 10,SCO
persons hud signed the pledge during the two months
he had been in Adelaide; but, although this be true, the
fact goes for nothing. One may safely state, although
the proof would be difficult, that not one-half of- these
people will keep their pledges. In the first place, hosts
I of little children at the public and other schools have
been induced by “ Burnett's workers ” to sign the card®
without thoroughly knowing what they were doing;
secondly, a large number of young men are known by
alcoholic outsiders to have signed the pledge over and
over again, “for a lark," though where the fun comes
in is rather hard to see ; aud, lastly, there are a lot of
hysterical people who are always ready to take up h
new sensation, especially if it be of a religious character.
Thertf can be little doubt that crowds of these latter
have declared their intention of abstaining from liquor
who in a few days will forget all about it. It has been
“ officially " denied that Mr. Burnett receives any
remuneration for his temperance work beyond his
ordinary allowance from the Wesleyan Home Mission
as an evangelist.
The advent of Mr. Proctor, the celebrated
astronomer, writes our correspondent, set all Adelaide
star-gazing. His lectures at the Town Hall were all
attended by crowded audiences. There is a fashion in
these things, and there is no question that news of his
success in Melbourne, a.nd judicious advertising, hav#
influenced his popularity quite as much ns the scien-
tific ability he displays. Undoubtedly he is more
than amply qualified, so far as knowledge goes, to
lecture on astronomy; and no one can deny the sim-
plicity with which he puts forward his facts and
theories. They are so divested of technical terms that
any ordinarily educated man can follow him without
difficulty. But as regards delivery Mr. Proctor is mo-
notonous in the extreme. From the beginning to the
end of his lecture he employs the one tone with never
the slightest inflection of voice, no matter how stu-
pendous, how wonderful, or how poetic his theme.
Were it not for the beautiful views he displays by the
aid of the oxy-hydrogen light there would be a good
many more snores than are occasionally heard in
the darkness which pervades the hall during the
largest part of the * lecture. An eccentric indi-
vidual, named Lamb, inserted the following adver-
tisement in the papers during Mr. Proctor's visit:—
I, Corbin Lamb, hereby challenge Mr. Proctor to a dis-
putation on the following professional statements be
has advanced on the subject of astronomy :—I maintain
that his assertions are false, and opposed to the laws of
Nature aud Nature’s God and common sense in the
following statements Ist. That the world we call the
sun is a burning globe of flame. 2nd. That our world
we live upon is older than the sun. 3rd. That the bent
from sun is caused by flames of tire existing in the sun.
I also maintain- —tth. That the present system or
science of astronomy is simply an arena of monstrous
assertion. Seeing that Mr. Proctor never advanced the
first aud third theories it is not surprising that he has
not accepted this curious person’s challenge. The
great secret of Mr. Proctor’s success is that he has Mr.
R. S. Smythe for his agent. This gentleman, by his
insinuating manners, gets more notices out of the
newspapers and gives them less in return than any
other agent extant. Although he is continually ob-
taining the insertion of large paragraphs when
ordinarily two or three lines woidd be given, it is said-
it may not be true-—that he never by any chance offers
anybody connected with a newspaper a complimentary
ticket beyond those which are sent to the offi jc as a
matter of course.
WALLACE ROSS, HANLAN’S VICTOR.
(Mrs. Greer).
THE MELBOURNE OPERA HOUSE TRAGEDY.


Sporting and Athletic Mems.
One of the latest births is a rowing club, at the
Instruction office.
r J Miller is distributing his “ Pochet
pamphlet ” throughout N.Z.
T n the Inter-University boat-race Yale beat
Harvard, in 24m. 275., by 10 lengths.
Fordham rode five winners and two seconds at
Salisbury Races on May 20tb and 21st.
Mata’s stable is said to have £25,000 to .£1,500
about him. He is heavily hacked in N. Z.
An Auckland (N. Z.) amateur “ ped ” intends
shortly to perform the feat of walking 108 miles in 24
hours.
The University Football Club won the match
ft g a inst the Waxatahs on Saturday last by a try to
nothing.
A twelve hours’ walking tournament will be
held at Christchurch, N. Z., in September next, open to
all comers.
A pigeon-flying match from Timaru to Christ-
churchr which is ninety-nine miles, was won in 2 hours
5 minutes.
It is not a fact that Blakeman was trained for
his late race* by Banuerman, Mr. Messon, his uncle,
acted as trainer,
Australian thoroughbred owners are being urged
to ship some of their best horses to England and make
„ raid on the British turf.
Acceptances are out for the two principal races
to he run for at the Spring Meeting of the Napier (N.Z.)
Spring Meeting on October 7th.
Hanlan’s doctor says he is not permanently in-
ured, but prescribes several month’s absolute rest. He
1 jins in England for his race with Trickett.
tl (
The Otago Hunt Club have decided to hold its
annual steeplechases on the 4th September. There will
be five events, including a Maiden Steeplechase.
The long-distance walking match in New Zea-
land, between Swan of Christchurch and O’Connor of
Timaru, has fallen through, the latter not paying his
deposit.
„ The correct form of expression to denote tho
working-man ’’ athlete is now “ a person engaged in
occupations requiring the exertion of physical
strength."
Mr. Ben. Rolls, the enthusiastic Melbourne sup-
porter of aquatics, is, we are sorry to hear, laid up in
consequence of the effects of a nasty fall received on
shipboard.
Sporting prophets and authorities in New Zea-
land have a great struggle just now to eke out their
osuai weekly quota of news. Everything is as “dull as
ditch-water.”
In the match against the ’Varsity racing spikes
?l er9 discovered in the boots of a prominent member of
ine Woratah. Nobody thought of examining in any
previous match.
The turf writer of the Saturday Adver-
tiser, Dunedin, N.Z., is summarising the performances
oi nearly every horse that performed on the New Zea-
land turf last season.
Albers and Kilkenny, the Yorkshire champion,
flayed billiards at Adelaide last week for £5O aside, the
jailer conceding 350 points in 1,000. Albers, who was
ne favourite, won by 67 points.
j The Duke of Westminster, owner of Bend Or,
n °t het; nor has he much occasiou to, seeing that
amounts to £BOO,OOO per annum,which would
vT, 6 him to spend £2OOO a day, and yet have a cash
°aiaace at the end of the year.
Cannon won .£lOOO by his riding of Isonomy
& nT e Manchester Cup, Mr. Gretton having put him on
e aou ®ancl to nothing just before the start. Curiously
she w ll Cannon rode Isonomy’s grand-dam Isoline when
won the same race 17 years ago.
fine 0 Thompson, the “ Leviathan,” attributes the
iPfjywcal proportions of himself and the other mem-
, of his family to the fact that, though he himself
Was a iJ re P° n d e rance of Jewish blood, his grandfather
Jbg i raw Scotchman.” “ Depend upon it, sir," said
" thoo a we h-known Sydney gentlemen some time ago,
too tJ, 6 (pointing to a Hebrew metallician) “ are
are v iphred. It’s with men as with horses —both
tee better for being a little bit crossed.”
It is stated that the secretary of the Redfern
Football Club adjourns every Friday to a popular
restaurant, to consult the we«kly papers and thus
ascertain how much his clnb has been advertised. This
furnishes him with data for calculating the probable
flow of new members. /
In connection with the recent fracas at the
N.S.R. Clnb shed, we learn that peace has been restored
and where before strife reigned rampant all is now tran-
quillity, and no bitter thoughts remain of—
A thoughtless word, a quick reply.
In a moment of brief anger spoken.
Mr. Yuille has sold the brood mare Frivolity to
Mr. Stubley, of Charters Towers, who intends to send
her to Queensland, where she will visit that very fine
horse Confucius (late C.8.F.), whose blood should nick
to a nicety with that of tho half-sister to Don Juan, in
whom Mr. Stubley now possesses a very valuable
animal.
Sir Hercules Robinson’s racehorses (Thunder-
bolt, Lady Emma, and Gitana,) are to be put in training
at once for the Great Autumn Spring Meeting to be
held at Christchurch, N. Z., on the 9th, 11th, and I2th
of November. His stables are situated at the Hntt,
Wellington. Let ns hope that the popular “Zetland
spots” will be once more carried to victory.
The. Dunedin (N.Z.) Jockey Club is in an ex-
ceedingly flourishing condition. At the annual meet-
ing held lately it was stated that the year’s receipts
were over £6,500, and balance carried forward £1,900.
A Saturday afternoon race meeting, for the sake
of “ sport,” takes place as often as funds will permit.
The animals which compete are only hacks and the
prizes very small.
There is little doubt that Mata is “'meant ” for
the Melbourne Cup. Every circumstance points in
that direction. He has been hacked in Melbourne to
win £lO,OOO at 100 to 4. His party have taken all the
available money from the local bookmakers, which will
amount to a good round sum; he lias been sent over to
Melbourne as early as possible after the declaration of
the weights, of course in order to get acclimatised to as
great an extent as he can in the time ; and the last, hut
certainly not the least important circumstance in the
horse’s favour is -that Mr. R. Ray has gone over with
him to superintend his training. It is to be hoped that
he will not turn out as big a fraud as Le Loup. He
certainly has been well tried, which is more than Mer-
maid’s son was, before leaving N.Z.
Mr. W. Miller, who claims the title of champion
athlete of the world, is open to match himself for £250
or £5OO against any three athletes of tho world, as
follows: —A match in the Graeco-Roman style of
wrestling, one fall; mixed wrestling, catch as can above
the waist, tripping allowed, one fall; sparring, foil
fencing, single-stick, heavy dumb-bell lifting, and
walking 26 hours. The three to divide the above exer-
cises between them. A reply to this challenge is
invited through the columns of the Australasian.
Edwards, the pedestrian, who had himself won
first prize in his last tournament, but had failed to pay
the next man, James Fitzosborne, the promised second
prize (£7 10s.), was last week charged at Bathurst with
having obtained (the entrance) money under false pre-
tences. Edwards did not appear. The P.M. declined
to grant a warrant for his apprehension, hut remarked
that Edwards had sailed close to tho wind ; also that
there would be a great deal of trouble in catching him,
and that when caught ho would be very little good.
A London society paper writes with regard to
the Hanlan and Trickett match: —“ One cannot help
looking upon Hanlan’s movements with suspicion after
recent events, but I trust that this may he a fair and
square race and the best man win, which is not always
the case in professional rowing matches. Both men
are British subjects, and I suppose we must make the
most of that fact to disguise tho painful feeling of
humiliation which the absence of an Englishman from
the contest for the championship of the world cannot
but produce in patriotic souls."
The Otago Witness, in reference to the
eulogiums passed on Sussex by the Australasian, says
that; that Journal is still at its old game of puffing up
the best local steeplechaser, and endeavouring to induce
its owner to make an exhibition of himself and waste
his money by sending the horse to England. The
Witness says that Mr. Chimside’s horses.
Sailor, Skyscraper, etc., when exported to England
had to be token to the farthest holes and
corners of the country to pick up a paltry £2O or £4O
Soiling Race or Hunter’s Stuxes at a little village
gathering. It further alludes to the case of Lone
Hand, who turned out a “duffer” in New Zealand when
opposed to The Agent and other hones.
At a meeting held in Auckland, N. Z.. of those
interested in the representation of the town in the In-
tercolonial Gig Race to be held there on January 29th,
1880, it was decided to send at once to England for a
boat.. The following are the names of the committee
elected to make arrangements;—Messrs. J. Bennett, T.
Henderson, junr., R. E. Isaacs, Jas. Stodart, A. E.
Whitaker, M. Gallagher, J. Barron, J. Halstead, J.
Dacre, J. M. Clark, S. Morrin, and his Worship the
Mayor (T. Peacock, Esq.)
At last Henley regatta a Gorman eight, repre-
senting the Frankfort Rowing Association, made their
first appearance in the second heat for the Grand Chal-
lenge Cup. The foreigners were opposed hy five other
eights, including the Leander, London, Thames,
Kingston, and Jesns College Clubs. Although tho
Teutons rowed 46 a minute to London’s 40, the latter
forged ahead gradually and surely in true British style,
and won hy a length and a half. The Sportsman says
of the visitors —“ They rowed a gallant race from start
to finish, and it is much to their credit that they were
able to be within one length and a half of such an eight
as London’at the end.” Tho Leanders won the first
heat and were the favourites for the final.
A sporting contributor in N. Z. is at present
publishing a record of the mounts of the leading jockeys
there during the season 1879-80, from which we make
the following extract regarding Bob Ray, who is to ride
Mata in our big handicaps and the Melbourne Cup :
Commencing with Bob Ray I have only to say that the
veteran has been but seldom seen in the saddle during
the past season. Strange to say every one of his losing
mounts was on old Templeton, the son of Belle of the
Isle having been unplaced iu the Canterbury Jockey
Club Handicap, third in the Canterbury Cup, second in
the Auckland Plate, unplaced in the Auckland Racing
Club Handicap, third iu the Dunedin Railway Plate,
and unplaced in the Forhnry Handicap. Ray’s winning
record has been as follows: —Lone Hand, in Geraldine
Maiden Plate; Templeton, in Christchurch Plate; and
Maritana in Auckland Publicans’ Purse. As will be
seen from the above, Ray has only figured nine times in
the saddle, and though, from the fact that he has dis-
posed of his training establishment and team to the
gentleman who will race under the name of Mr. “ Hors-
ford," it is to be presumed that the familiar French
grey and cerise will be absent from onr racecourses,
still I trust that in the cherry jacket of his new patron
the veteran jockey may still maintain the position he
has held for many years.
More has been made of the skin of Archer s arm
being abrased hy Mulev Edris’s teeth (says the
Referee), than if a half-a-dozen unfashionable jockeys
had been eaten up altogether or trampled to pieces by
a horde of “ fiery untamed" horses. If this sort of
thing goes on, we shall have at all dinners sacred to
sporting men one of the “usual loyal and patriotic
toasts ” rendered thus“ The Prince of Wales, Fred.
Archer, and the rest of the royal family,'' with an
additional cheer for the representative of ability—and
on that score, quite right too. But seriously, isn’t this
worship of professional riders a trifle overdone ? —and
hasn’t it been more than a trifle idiotic for several gush-
ing papers during the week to describe the occurrence,
which now turns out “in no way so serious as was at
first supposed," an accident t
In regard to the Victorian Rowing Association’s
decision to admit persons engaged in manual labour to
amateur races, “ Cloanthus" of the Australasian
shows that this has been brought about, not hy the
clubs who have for so many years home the brunt of
the battle, and whose members have found the needful
for Melbourne regattas and intercolonial races, but by
clubs that with one exception, have done nothing for
the cause of rowing beyond collaring their pots and
drinking the president’s health at the annual distribu-
tion. The committee of the V.RC., he adds, is highly
reprehensible for allowing this state of things to come
abont, as, with the exception of Mr. Irvine, no member
of the committee or any prominent oarsman said any-
thing at the meeting. The question of the definition
of the term “amateur” has been up over and over
again, and has always been settled, as it should have
been on tho last occasion, hy the person properly autho-
rised so to do. Instead of which, the conduct of
the annual regatta is taken practically out of the hands
of the Y.R.A., and entrusted to those of a fresh
lenient.
Trickett has arrived in England, and is, we are
glad to hear, about to place himself once more under the
redoubtable Horry Kelly, the ex-champion, who trained
him for his race with Sadler. If the telegram which
makes this announcement be founded on fact, those
who cavilled at John Thompson, the bookseller, being
associated with the champion will now have nothing to
complain of. Bookmakers, like other people, have their
shore of the finer feelings of human nature, and it may
interest some of our readers to learn that the intimacy
between the great sculler and the king of the Australian
(prize) ring, who, to give him his due, has always been
regarded as an honest, manly fellow, was brought about
by Trickett having saved Thompson’s life. The latter,
while sculling on the Parramatta a year or two ago,
capsized his outrigger, and, not being by any means a
good swimmer, was in imminent danger of drowning.
Trickett observed this, and pulling towards Thompson
at a rate which, to use the latter's words, was “incre-
dibly fast,” saved him from a watery grave. However,
this doesn’t make it any more desirable that John should
be mixed up with Edward.
On Thursday, Juno 17, tho following oarsmen
mot on the Seekouk River to row a race of four miles
and a turn :—l. Wallace Ross, St. John, N.B. ; 2. Geo.
W. Lee, Newark, N.J.; 3. James H. Riley, Saratoga,
N.Y.; 4. Horatio Delano, Chelsea, Mass.; 5. James A.
Ten Eyck, Peekskill, N.Y,; 6. P. A. Pmisted, Boston,
Mass.; 7. Jacob Qaudanr, Toronto, Can.; 8. James H.
Dempsey, Geneva, N.Y.; 9. R. W. Boyd, Middlesbro’,
Eng.; 0. Edward Hanlau, Toronto, Can. Of those who
had entered the following withdrew :—John A. Ken-
nedy, George W. Woisberger, Prenchy Johnson and G.
H. Hosmer. All eyes were fixed on Hanlan and his
next-door neighbour, Boyd, and when it was noticed
that the champion at once began to draw away from
the Englishman the manifestations of satisfaction on
shore were unmistakoable. For a mile and a half the
race between Rosa, Hanlan and Riley was terrific, but
the former’s vigorous stroke had by that time forged
him a length ahead—not much to gain ordinarily iu
that distance, but a deal to snatch from the champion.
A quarter of a mile from the turn Hanlan censed row-
ing for a few strokes and put his hand on his side as if
to indicate that he was in physical pain, and again at
the two and a quarter mile distance. There was no
change in the position of the two foremost men until
the end was reached, but Ten Eyck beat Qaudaur, who
had been third for the greater portion of the last half
of tho race. Time : Ross, 29ra. 515.; Riley, 30m. 3015.;
Ten Eyck, 30m. 58s. Ross, who was born at Dorchester,
New Brunswick, on 39th February, 1857, is Cft. IJin. in
height, weighs 12st 71b., and took his boat along in the
rough water at a terrific rate. Boyd, it is stated, was
not in sufficiently hard condition.
The decision arrived at by the Victorian Rowing
Association ns to allowing manual labor men to row as
amateurs will not affect the annual intercolonial eight-
oared contests rowed alternately at Sydney and Mol-
bourne, as',it has been arranged between the associations
that only those oarsmen who do not gain their living
by manual labor are to form the crews. The only result
of the vote will be that the bona fide amateur oarsmoa
will form an association of their own, exclusive of tho
manual labor element, and perhaps this will Le the beet
way out of the difficulty. Without any desire to he ex-
clusive we ore strongly of opinion that in rowing, men
who are engaged in out of door manual labor have ft
decided advantage over those who are shut up all day
in the counting house. This was clearly proved in the
race on the Yarra for the Clarke Challenge Cup, when
the Footscray Club carried all before them. At all regattas
held in Sydney Harbour races are provided for all
classes of oarsmen, and the arrangement works most
harmoniously. The amateur has only to compete
hgoinst amateur, mechanic against mechanic and tho
watermen and professionals are fitted against one
another. The following is the latest definition of an
amateur as adopted at a a meeting of the principal boat
clubs in London, held at the Leander Club Rooms,
Putney, on the 10th April, 1878 : —“ Au amateur oars-
man or sculler must be an officer of Her Majesty’s
Army, or Navylor Civil Service, a member of the Liberal
Professions, or of the Universities or Public Schools,
or of any established boat or rowing club not con-
taining mechanics or professionals ; and must not have
competed in any competition for either a stake, or money
or entrance fee, or with or against a professional for
any prize ; nor have ever taught, pursued, or assisted
iu the pursuit of athletic exercises of any kind as a
means of livelihood; nor have ever been employed in or
about boats or in manual labor; nor he a mechanic
artisan, or laborer.
The London theatrical press is making a chari-
table appeal on behalf of John Maddison Morton, the
most popular farce writer of the century, who is in
very straitened circumstances; and among whose pro-
ductions are—“A Thumping Legacy,” “ The Two Bonny,
castles,” “Lend Me Five Shillings,” “My Precious
Betsy," “Woodcock’s Little Game,” “Betsy Baker,"
“ A Regular Fix," “ Whitebait at Greenwich," and the
world-famous “ Box and Cox.” We of Sydney have
have hod many a good laugh provided for us by Morton.
The other week we had “Woodcock's Little Game;"
now we have " Betsy Bakes,
MORTLAKE, PARRAMATTA RIVER—THE SITE OF A NEW VILLAGE. (See Page 3.)


FUN AND FANCY.
The gravest Beast is the Ass,
The gravest Bird is Ihe Owl;
The gravest Fish is the Oyster,
The gravest Mail is the Fool.
Latest things in boots. —Holes.
A dear little thing—a diamond.
Raise strawberries with —a spoon.
A dead sure thing—man’s mortality.
“ A celebrated case ” —Mahomet’s coffin.
Some women are worth their weight in scold.
The good conveyancer ia known by his deeds.
An opera singer sings airs ; puts them on too.
A firm foundation—Establishing a partnership.
Air castles are built of sunbeams and here
rafters.
A man must be dead when he’s given up by the
doctors.
“Black as your hat.” —“Darkness that may
be felt."
People pick their teeth, and yet they do not get
good ones.
Cremation would save a dead person from being
buried alive.
The “ tea” we get is often like milk —a “ lack-
tea-al ” fluid.
Can a man who lives beyond 80 be called a fixed
oxygenarian ?
When a lady yields her heart to a tailor she is
carried by a salt.
The inhabitants of the Polar regions move in
the highest circle.
The man who sat upon a bent pin is denounced
as a profane upstart.
Kissing may now be done by telephone, but it |
doesn’t taste so nice.
Our ancestors, the monkeys, were all educated
in the higher branches.
Always lay up something for a rainy day, if it is
only a borrowed umbrella.
A girl says she’s not fluctuating—she’s always
at par—to buy her something.
The world owes us all a living, but she is just as
hard to collect from as any other debtor.
There are various kinds of roses—the red rose
and the white rose and last night the moon rose.
A boy who has only three fingers on one hand
remarks that he had to cut it off or steal the trap.
A smoky chimney is no more to be compared to
a scolding wife that a little negro is to a dark night.
A Parisenne has discovered how to prevent
wrinkles. The remedy shortens life, but what of that ?
A certain lady when asked her opinion of
moustaches, says she always sets her face against them.
A lazy boy complained that his bed was too
short. His father sternly replied, “ You’re too long in
it, sir."
You require in marriage precisely the same
quality that you would in eating sausages—absolute
confidence.
The simplest cuseword in the Chinese language
would more than All out this line, but the Chinese have
plenty of time and lots of alphabet.
“ Neighbour Jones, you occupy a position of
very great trust in Sydney ?" Yes, neighbour Smith, I
find that I have to trust almost everybody."
The rain falls on the just and unjust. But we
are afraid not on the mean man who "lifted" the
" gamp ” from this office the other evening.
A rich man drew up a will which was so patheti-
cally worded that it moved all his relatives to tears.
It left all his property to an orphan asylum.
Said the wealthy retired grocer’s wife to the
dressmaker: —Press me in such a manner that my
vulgarities will pass for mediaeval affections.”
A disappointment.—Edwin : Dull paper this
morning, ain’t it, Angy?—Angelina: Yes. Not a soul
one knows mentioned ! —not even in the deaths.
A boy of four taken to church for the first time,
listened to the organ for a few moments and then said :
" When will the organ man let the monkey out ? ”
Said a man in the country: “I respect
religion, but can you fairly expect me to attend church
when there is a circus in town demanding support ? "
“The male hornet does not sting” says an
eminent scientist, but people won’t take the chance of
a hornet being a male and pick it up with their fingers.
A man, who has red hair
And has a red-haired son
Hair-red-it-heiry gifts must share.
Else how could it be done ?
Full many a rose is born to blush unseen, and
waste its sweetness on the desert air; full many a nip is
ta’en behind the screen, and cloves, and coffee, too, are
eaten there.
A little girl had, first whooping cough, then
croup, then the measles. As she lay tossing upon her
pillow she looked np at her father and said, “ Papa,
what comes next ? ”
Benjamin West says that the kiss of his mother,
—or his sister, we forget which—made him a painter. If
Benjamin, however, had lacked genius he might have
heen a bill-poster.
A Yankee invented a water velocipede to send to
the Exhibition, but the priceless secret of its construc-
tion is lost for ever, as the sharks took the man and the
machine on its first trip.
When a man’s wife comes in and sees him razor
in hand and with his face all in a lather, and asks him,
"are yon shaving,” it’s a provoking thing in him to
answer, “No, I’m blacking the stove."
When a young man goes to the coffee-stall at
the Daily Telegraph corner, at three a.m., buys a
saveloy, toys with it and then remarks that he’s carving
her name on the bark —well, is he sober ?
A Toronto Alderman, of the typical ample
dimensions, wandered around for awhile on the Ist day
of April with a placard on his back inscribed : " Widened
at the expense of the corporation." The joke would do
in Sydney.
Clergyman (to pupil): How many things are
necessary in the rite of baptism?" Boy: "Three.”
Clergyman: “ No, stupid, only two —the prayer-book and
the water.” Boy: “ Then how about the baby?" Par-
son collapses.
Mr. Longfellow enjoys telling at his own expense
the story that an Englishman strolled iuto his Cam-
bridge home one summer day, saying, "As ah, there
is—ah, no old ruins in this Worsted country, I thought
I’d come to see you.”
“ I didn’t at all expect company to-day,” said a
lady to her visitors, with not a very pleasant look, " but
I hope you will make yourselves at home. " Yes in-
deed," replied one of them, starting W£, "I will make
myself at home as quick us possible."
A boy who had been presented with a new jack-
knife hacked right and left at everything, from the
dining-room table to the cat’s tail. He was brought
home covered with blood in a few days and explained
that he’d been trying to cut his name on the cow’s
hack.
At a fashionable school at Darlinghurst a teacher
asked, " What bird is large enough to carry off a man ? "
Nobody knew, but one little girl suggested “alark.’
And then she explained: “ Mamma said papa wouldn't
be home until Saturday, because he had gone off on a
lark.”
One of the war songs of the Zulus runs ;
“ Dah I dah! dah ! dob 1
Ye ! ye! ye ! ye 1"
The enemy is supposed to take flight as soon as the
song ia started.
A down East circus has a cannibal among 1 its
attractions, but the foolish reluctance of women to
give up their babies deprives him of any opportunities
to show off.
A lady with a fatal squint cameonco to afashion-
able artist for her portrait. He looked at her and she
looked at him, and both were embarrassed. He spoke
first: “Would your ladyship permit me to take the
portrait in profile ? There is a Certain shyness about
your ladyship’s eyes which is as difficult in art as it is
fascinating in nature.”
“ After all,” remarked the young man, skim-
ming lightly over the gravel walk in the general direc-
tion of the front gate, "after all, what boots it?” and
the muscular-looking old gentleman at the top of the
steps, with his spectacles jostled just a little crooked,
said that if the young man didn't know himself he didn’t
know any one who did.
They were singing the old-fashioned hymn
“Jordan” in the Sunday, school, and the boys roared
at the top of their voices the sonl-stirring query
“ What never part again ?”
to which responded the girls, very sweetly :
"No never port again.”
when the hoys repeated, with an additional ring:
“ What never port again ?"
the girls replied:
“ Hardly ever part again.”
whereupon the school was dismissed.
Saya Truth concerning a very recent Queen s
drawing-room : “ Ladies were not less deceitsthan at
first. One, in pressing forward, positively lost the
whole of the npper part of her dress and had to be
shrouded in shawls. As I was walking along St. James-
street on the morning of the drawing-room I observed
a crowd surrounding a brougham, in which was seated
a lady alone. Never have lin civilized society and in
daylight seen a lady with so small an amount of clothing.
Surely she might ’ have covered her nakedness with a
shawl. The common people, who do not penetrate
within the chained portals of St. Jame#, stared at her
in astonishment, and one somewhat dingy individual
suggested that she ought to be suppressed as a ‘ vice.’ ”
Oliver Wendell Holmes says that the years at
first pelt the girls with roses and after a while with
snow-balls. Let us, now we see the roses around ns,
enjoy the showers which 1830 scatters. To one freshly
arrived in Sydney from Banana-land, where the same
hand which pelts sovereigns into man’s purse throws
gold at woman’s face, the Southern girls, especially on
these winter mornings, seem to have been so plentifully
pelted as to suggest that the man who flings the rose
leavesjat their cheeks and the lilies at their foreheads is
in the habit of exclaiming—
I’ll bury her beneath such heaps of roses
That if she had ten thousand thousand noses,
She’d cry "Enough! enough! take off your posies.
My heart was icy, hut it now unfroze is."
WOMAN ITEMS.
A jealous man always finds more than ho looU
for.
In love, to give a portrait is to promise the
original.
Ugliness, after virtue, is the best guardian of a
young woman.
The worst virago resembles a flower—she shuts
up when she is asleep.
Love consists of “a little sighing, a little cry.
mg, a little dying, and a deal of lying.”
When a girl says she has two strings to her bow
she means she has two beaux to her string.
Wine and women, says Cardan, are the teachers
of all the sins, if they are not the authors.
Great domestic contest after the honeymoon'
Which shall be speaker of the new house ?
Says Edward Arnold : The “ thoughts ye can not
stay with brazen chains ft girl’s hair tightly binds ’•
Kb conversation is more-tiresome than that of a
lover who has nothing to desire nnd nothing to fear.
We blame ineons L nncv in women, but only when
we are the victim. We find it charming if we are the
object.
At a recent railway festival was given the toast;
"Our mothers —the only faithful tenders who never
misplaced a switch."
Women who love are always afraid thev are not
loved. Women who do not love always flatter them,
selves that they are loved.
A woman who had her corset torn off by light-
ning says that the sensation was something like being
tossed over a fence by a cow.
Says Montaigne—“ It happens a s with cages •. the
birds without despair to get in, and those within des.
pair of getting out—that is marriage.”
Ninon D’Enclos says that women detest a jea-
lous man whom they do not love, but it angers them
when a man whom they do love is not jealous.
Cooking parties are all the rage in Paris. The
guests p'ir off. male and female after their kind and
each pair must prepare a dish for the common supper,
A wife no more believes in business which takes
her husband away from her than a manager believes in
the sickness of an actress, or a publisher in that of a
writer.
With women, marked, irregular noses, signify
far more tnlent than with men; and, except in the ctse
of a few, beauty must always sacrifice something to
genius.
He kissed the lady of bis thoughts. “ Pouah!”
said she. "you smell of tobacco!" Replied he, philo-
sophically: “It seems then that my rival does not
smoke 1”
A man stole up behind a lady in a dark room
and kissed her, and when he found it was his wife and
when she found it was her husband they were both as
savage as wet hens.
A young bride who had been fashionably
educated was asked by her fond husband to attend to
the orderin'? of the dinner. She blandly requested the
butcher to send home ft leg of tongue.
With one bold arm her waist T clasped,
Her lily hind with Id isos I did smother;
The question was upon my lips—l gasped—
And found oat that my love possessed—A brother,
London doctors are using their best endeavours
to abolish the ma»k veil, which, according to them,
injures the eyes. Men often hurt their eyes, too, in en-
deavouring to look through such articles.
Women have never forgiven Lady Mary Wortly
Montagu for saying: “ The only satisfaction I have in
being a women is that I shall not he compelled to marry
one of my own sex. Her sin is unpardonable.
Her Majesty has consented to allow the statue
of the poet Byron, for which upwards of £3OOO was raised
by public subscription, to stand within the railed enclo-
sure known as Hamilton Gardens, opposite to the statue
of Achilles.
Madame Fetter, a cautiniern of the Old Empire
is still alive at Paris, aged 93. She was present at Leip-
zig, D resden, Ansterlitz and at the disastrous retreat
from Moscow. She is poor and has an annual pension
of but 100 francs.
The owner of a pair of bright eyes says that the
prettiest compliment she ever received came from a
child of four years. The little fellow after lookin'? in-
tently at her eyes a moment, inquired naiyely, “Are
your eyes new ones ?”
This poetry is not original:—
“ Turn the gas down in the parlor.
Put some c>al npon the grate.
For our darling daughter’s lover
Is coming at half-past eight.
The ancient superstition that it is unlucky to
wear black at a wedding appears to be dying a natural
death, says Truth. That it is utterly disregarded by
the guests is proved by the number of black satins,
velvets and brocades worn at recent weddings.
The star of Mrs. Langtry lias paled and Miss
Maynard, a wealthy heiress, is nowthe reigning heaaty.
Additional interest attaches to her by reason of the
fact that it’s reported she is going to marry Prince
Leopold—or rather that the Prince means to marry
her.
A happy husband relates that he has been
married twenty years, and that daring the whole time
his wife and he only once had an idea in common,
and that was when their house caught fire, nnd both
did their best to see who could get out of the door
first.
Uogers, the “banker-poet,” did nob like the
wife of one of his friends. He explained that t.m
Italian banditti wanted to carry off his friend, but bis
wife flung her arms round her husband's nec ?j
“Rather than take her too they let him go, sail
Rogers.
She asked him if he didn’t admire the (last-
brown tint of her hair, and he said he didn’t knowit
was that colour—thought it was more the colour o
cold roast lamb. There was a sudden coolness in tna
room just then that she neglected to ask him to tase
his overcoat off.
A Paris beauty recently won a husband in three
interviews. The first time she saw him she wore
water-green muslin, with short skirt and short sleeva>
the second time a short silk polonaise oyer a tru\
skirt of India muslin and a straw hat trimmed wi
pink clover and a white feather; and tho third a ft.
of wedgwood blue foulard and a Rubens hat. a
fetched him.
Lady Margaret Toler, who was recently
to the Countess of Lovelace’s son, instituted the cast
of getting married at night. The wedding took P
at 9in the evening. The guests assembled in the
in full dress, the ladies without bonnets, and afterw«^ e
repaired to the residence of the bride's mother !•
Countess of Norbury), where supper was served an
grand ball given.
In a Sydney boarding bouse recently, a
man, on turning off his gas, saw the words, “, °b ra il.
thy sins,” in phosphorescent characters on the ’
He was surprised, but, listening, thonghthe beards
young ladies outside the door, waitingto observe
effect, on him. So, pretending to bo frightened at
match scratch, he fell on his knees nnd confcsse
loud that he had frequently kissed one of the . M
ladies in the dark—the ono whom he had best
suspect of playing the trick. That young “’/P-,i. s be
play any more snch tricks immediately. She tM
is a mean, horrid thing.
Mias Susan Gorsch is the champion love-1 0
writer of the period. She lives at Berea, '-'hi°. t 0
there is a college. Recently the professors ceg oll g
receive thr ugh the post a perfectshower o. ? n . 0 'l"v l and*
ten-page love-letters, written in a neat feminm
and full of protestations of undying affection.
the clergymen of the town were addressed in t
manner and style. In a little while the wive
preachers came in for their share of the my gC ]i
wooing. Then it was found that Miss Susan vo nnf
was the guilty person. She is an estimabi .y. 0 j
woman, bat is afflicted with “the peculiar m
love-letter writing.
ORIGINAL VERSE.
(WRITTEN EXPRESSLY FOR THE BULLETIN).
Without an “E.”
The letter E is more used than any other letter in the
English alphabet. Each of the following verses contains
every letter of the alphabet except E :
A jovial swain should not complain
Of any buxom fair
Who mocks his pain and thinks it gain
To quiz his awkward air.
Quixotic boys who look for joys
Quixotic hazards ruu;
A lass annoys with trivial toys.
Opposing man for fun.
A jovial swain may rack his brain
And tax his fancy’s might;
To quiz is vain, for ’tis most plain
That what I say is right.
F. E. DIAMOND.
Paddington.
Kissing.
There’s a jolly English proverb
That is pretty much like this;
That a man is half in heaven
When he has a woman’s kiss.
But there’s danger in delaying
And the sweetness may forsake it—
So I tell you, bashful lover,
If you want a kiss, why take it.
Never let another fellow
Steal a march on you in this ;
Never let a charming maiden
See you spooning for a kiss.
There’s a jovial way of kissing.
And the jolly ones that make it
Have a motto that is winning—
“ If you want a kiss, why take it."
Any fool may face a cannon—
Anybody wear a crown—
But a man must win a woman
If he’d have her for his own.
Would you have a golden apple,
You must find the tree and shake it;
If a thing is worth the having
And you want a kiss, why take it.
Who would bum upon the desert
With a forest growing by ?
Who would give his sunny summer
For a black and wintry sky P
Oh ! I tell you there is magic
And you cannot, cannot break it;
For the sweetest part of loving
Is to want a kiss and take it.
My Jennie.
Who tends me with a loving core.
And gently combs my glossy hair ;
Not with a comb, but with a chair ?
My Jennie.
Who, if a stranger’s in the house.
Keeps just as still as any mouse ;
But when he’s gone does me wall souse ?
My Jennie.
Who if we’re walking in the street,
A lady-friend we chance to meet;
Before her talks in accents sweet ?
My Jennie.
Bnt when we’re home, how she plagues me.
Her tongue she nses rather free
Till I’m neither fit to stand or see.
My Jennie,
Who if the dinner’s rather late.
And half an hour I’ve got to wait,
If I dare speak will break my pate P
My Jennie.
And many a weary time I’ve said,
With aching heart, and splitting head;
That long enough this life I’ve led
With Jennie,
Each day and hour I greatly grieve.
That from her tongue there's no reprieve;
I think that some fine day I’ll leave
My Jennie.
F. E. DIAMOND.
Paddington, Sydney.
INTAGLIOS.
In a Box.
Lost at Sea.
I saw them last night in a box at the play—
Old age and young youth side by side ;
You might know by the glasses that pointed that way
That they were—a groom and a bride j
And you might have known, too, by the face of the
groom,
And the tilt of his head, and the grim
Little smile of his lip, he was proud to presume
That we men were all envying him.
Well, she was superb—an Elaine in the face,
A Godiva in figure and mien.
With the arm and the wrist of a Parian "Grace,”
And the high-lifted brow of a queen;
But I thought, in the splendor of wealth and of pride.
And in all her young beauty might prize,
I should hardly be glad if she sat by my side
With that far-away look in her eyes.
Why wails the wave around our ship
So wearily ?
Why wails the wave arouud our ship
So drearily ?
When paliid Sickness with ns walked.
When Death our staterooms grimly stalked.
Oh ! how cheerily sang the waves
As laughing they closed o’er the nameless graves
Of those whom Death had won :
And the laughing wave and the smiling San
Kejoiced o'er those whom Death had won.
For Nature knew His will .was done.
A fair, sweet flow’r on Neptune’s breast.
Laid down its pretty head at rest
And said “ I trust myself to thee,
Though monarch of the pathlesss sea.”
A wretched worm came crawling by,
And humbly begged with many a sigh
Of feigned concern for the lonely flow’r
That lay in Kingly Neptune’s pow’r
“ That she would grant that he would be.
Her guardian while she sailed the sea.”
The trustful flow’r too soon assented—
A trust (poor thing) too soon repented;
For the reptile played a treacherous part.
And eat his way to that trusting heart,
So the floweret drooped her lovely head
And sickened and faded, and so was dead.
A maiden sailed o’er the the summer sea—
An unprotected maid! Ah me!
A traitor near the maiden came,
Alas ! alas ! for maiden fame.
Alas ! alas ! for trust mislaid
Alas! alas! for trust betrayed;
Alas ! for life or fame that's gone,
Alas ! that traitor liveth on !
Why wails the wave around our ship
So wearily P
Why wails the wave around our ship
So drearily ?
That deed of foulest shame were done.
That Sin the victory hath won,
That maiden’s fame and maiden’s pride
Were wrecked on Passion’s cruel tide.
F. W. RILEY.
Only a Line.
Only a line in the paper
That somebody read aloud.
At a table of languid boarders.
To a dull, indifferent crowd.
Market reports and a marriage,
And the reader read them all;
How could ho know a hope died then.
And was wrapped in a funeral pall ?
Only a line in the paper.
Read in a casual way,
Bnt the glow wont out of one young life.
And left it cold and gray—
Colder than bleak December,
Grayer than walls of rock;
The reader paused, and the room grew full
Of laughter and idle talk.
If one slipped off to her chamber
Why, who could dream or know
That one brief line in the paper
Had sent her away with her woe—
Away into lonely sorrow.
To bitter and blinding tears ?
Only a line in the paper—
Bnt it meant such desolate years.
AUREL KENLIS.
July 9th, 1880.
Z. U.
A Lay of Modern Sydney.
A CONSIDERABLE DISTANCE AFTER MACAULAY.
A Night Thought.
As I hear the breath of the mother
To the breath of the child at her feet
Answer in even whispers.
When the night falls heavy and sweet;
And the thought of the other dear ones
Comes down from their cradle above ;
'Tis not with the spirit only
Of hope and confident love.
For over each head in the darkness
A hollow-eyed thing hangs near,
And I know that my treasures tremble
On a thread of gossamer.
O life! what art thou that boldest
What is more than life to thee.
By the tenure of thine own hours.
Thine own fragility.
And each breath is a sigh, that nearer
Brings the long farewell to me
O life! thou shouldst be life truly.
Or else thou shouldst not be.
They speak oit David ye Critic, —
By his lost boots he swore.
The working-men of Sydney
Should suffer wrong no more.
“Because,” said David, musing,—
Unskilled in subtle wiles,
Innocent of least intention
To court th’electora smiles.
“ Because, if protective notions
Gain ground, the welcome news
Will fan the expiring industry
Of colonial boots and shoes.
“ Thus again in the misty future
Should my boots be filched away.
Contract-built may replace them, —
D'ye see my little lay ?”
Unsophisticated notions
Such as thoSfe did thus impel,
David ye Critic to venture
The free-trade cat to bell.
But the people, oh I the people.
With minds e'er prone to guile,
Knew ye sagacious critic,
Dropped down to David’s wile.
They took him no reformer
Of oppressive laws to be,
But iu their classic parlance.
Quite “ another cup of tea.”
And so, at next election
He found his seat withdrawn.
Despite the machiuationa
Of his arcli-supporter .
’Twas so, as tells the legend,
With ye manne astryde ye lymbe
Of ye tree, ye brauche swaynge.
Between ye trunke and him.
“Ye limbe” at length divided.
On that eventful day,
“Ye manne ” was left suspended
“A bleeding piece of clay.”
B. A.
July 10. 1880.
N.B. —The reader will observe that if lie should not
find David's soliloquy perfectly rhythmical, it is the
discreded of the sagacious critic who challenged the
University to a poetical contest. In fact, as the lay is
due to his inspiration, any defect found therein is fairly
chargeable to Davie’s account.


Chemists and Drug!
EMSTEONG’S (CAMOMII
_ AND LIVER PILLS Stand
General FAMILY AFERIEN'
indigestion, dyspepsia, sick 1
the head and chest, habit
heartburn, giddiness, wind a;
ness of the eyes. They promol
of the stomach and howe
neither griping nor sickness, a
recommended. Boxes, Is, SJs,
ARMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHI
An elegant preparation, for
the pulmonary organs. This
preventive for that fatal di£
well as the most successful re.
colds, bronchitis, whooping <
ing cough of consumption, ho
in the throat, and asthma. Is
6d.
ARMSTRONG’S REMEDY FOR INI
"Is recognised by medical n
in Empirical Medicine,” beinf
CURE “for this hitherto in
relief from PAIN, and acres
HAGE.” Can always he R
from TWENTY-FOUR to
HOURS. 4s 6d and XOs.
N B.—To facilitate the cure, the use of
PARAGON PILE OINTMEN
bined with the remedy. Pric<
E. B. AE M S T B
Chemist and Apothecar
466, George Street, Sj
(Opposite Market.)
C
ENTEAL PHI
78 (Late 84) KING-STR]
DISPENSING ESTABLTS
Pure drugs and chemicals, toilet re l
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINQ]
JS. ABEAHAM’S PILLS (
# Rkoistkred.
THE GREAT LIVER RE]
Free from all noxious drugs, viz.. Pod.
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in proi
strengthening the stomach, correctinf
insr or removing headache, giddiness
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or t
require no change of diet, and the n
stitntion may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABE AH A
At the Laboratory, 434 Georgo-st
Be careful not to get imita
AKE NO MOEI
hut try
RANDERSON’S ■
PODOPHYLIN LOZEN
Do yon SUFFER from HE AD AC
Then try Rai
PODOPHYLLI
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Hi
PODOPHYLLI
Do yon Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and h(
RANDEESON’
Do yon constantly suffer from Bi
It so remember
PUDOPHYLL
will soon cure, if taken as dii
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICI.
Are any'of your children sick at
can Bafely giv© them on© of
for the small members of tl
TAKE WELL
©if Remember this, and always 1
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Prop
EDWARD ROW and CO
45 and 47 George-stre
"O Y EOYAL LETTER
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE I
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTY
Guaranteed to be
Tailors, Drapers
I F
bon maeci
SEMI-ANNUAL DEA
SALE.
96, KING-STEEE
Special Inducements offered duri
chasing NEW, GOOD, CHEAP, 1 1
able, Eeliable, Durable Drapery at
The Stock has been brought down t
departments throughout the house 1
revision, and the goods EEMAEKI
in order to clear out our Large Sui
New Stock.
ten pee cent
additional allowed on all purchase
SPECIAL NOTIC
is directed to the following, and '
Ladies to carefully peruse the qu
ments made in reference to this sale
FACT No. 1.—This is a genuine 1
Goods, at Home Coe
FACT No. 2.—All our Goods are
and Eeliable, from
Houses.
FACT No. 3. —We have reduced
to Home Cost.
FACT No. 4,—In addition to the al
on all purchases I 1
this sale.
FACT No. 5.—Is a very _startUng
Warehouses
TJ O Y L E &
BOND STREET S
SYDNEY,
Are Sole Agents
BBINSMEAD’9 CELEBRAl
Pricks —From Forty-fox
Guaranteed for Five'
Highest Award above’al
FAULTLESS AND UN£
O Y L E &
bond street s
SYDNEY,
Are Sole Agents
ALPHA QA9 MAC
For making gas in private hoi
lishments, stations or
No Trouble.
Simple and ESecti
half the cost of
o Y L E &
BOND STREET S
SYDNEY.
Are Agents foi
SMITH’S AMERICAN
Unequalled and Indisj
BOYLE & I
Brinsmead Piano J
BOND STREET
Tailors, Drapers
-qEAPES AN]
Have Opened
„ .1 ■Russian leather purses, card
hags! in all sizes, the most be
that ever came into this market
n,e new Passementerie Trimmings
A.w passementerie Fnuges
£*J e pvv passementerie Collarettes
S'nol wraps, wool clouds, wool mu®
W warm! the largest and choicest
imported direct from Gent
TriW’vtam Winter Hosiery | T.
t mps 1 Warm Winter Gloves a
Kid Gloves, old Gold Cuff |. i
‘ All the above goods are only jui
n off, ex S.S. Orient.
E S AND
J JACKETS AND MA]
14s 6d to 5 guinea
Peapes and Shaw’s costumes, from 1
peapes and Shaw’s Flora kid glov
Shaw’s blankets for sing
Ppaues and Shaw’s blankets for don
.■Come and see them, comparison is
cfivnfc Saxony flannels —Is, Is *d, la
Welch flannels—2s, 2s 3d. !
imitation)
peapes and Shaw s umhrehas—ladio
Gd, pure silk
Pences and Shaw’s warm winter ov
men-20s. 255. 27s 6d, 30s. 355. 4i
Peaces and Shaw’s gentlemen's ulst
F i geokge STREET, GEOE(
George-street.
EAP E S AND
DRESS MATERL
Broche and Pompadour, for trimmi
Peapes and Shaw’s black silks, 2s 9d
4s 6d, 5s 6d
A benntiful assortment of rich colon
for dinner, evening, and weddinj
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING I
Ladies’ chemises, plain useful gam
2s 6d, 2s 9d
Ladies' drawers, ditto ditto ditto, 1
2s 9d
Ladies’ nightdresses, ditto ditto dit
9d, 6s 6d
Wedding trousseaux, from £2O to £J
Layettes, from £5 5s to £25
The now “Ron Ton” stays, in whiet
The new “ Ladies’ Sealskin Caps,” i
Ladies’ winter merino hose, jilain f
pair.
PEAPES and SHAW, PE API
George-street. Geor
"CIASHIONAJBLE SCARFS A
FOR GENTLEME
at
HORDERN’S NEW MERGE]
FITTING SHO]
PITT STRE
Nkab tub Victobxa 1
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECK 1 ]
TRY IT ! ! !
J. L. HORDE
g JgX CEL FENCE WITH
171 PITT STEEE
B EDMUND WI
NAVAL AND MILITARY
W
W
H 14s 6d., 10s. Gd., 215, ;
£ TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
H All wool and well si
fc 50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS
H Sac pattern.
H well shrunk, cut to suit
$ taste.
M ALL COATS FITTED before
W
UJ c O N O MT IS
WHAT IS SAVED IS E
v THE STANDARD AM]
SHIRT FAC
late of 100 King-sti
has removed to the more spacioi
Ladies' C
that weri
now Is 3c
Ditto, tan
trimmed,
were 4s 1
2s 9d
Slip Bodic
were Is 1
Is 3d
Trimmed d
were 2s 1
Is lid
We guaran
all
Infants’ six
were 9d. I
Infants’ Bi
were 6d, i
Infants’
gowns tl
2s lid, nc
Drench and
Bonnets t
30s now 2
Ditto that
now 12s 6
Ditto that
now 10s 6
Feathers,
Eufflings,
Staj
■Pocliinnahl
Ladies’
gows tha
3s lid no\
Ditto ditto
somely ti
that wore
now 3s 6c
Ladies’ L
that wer
now 3s 3
Ditto ditt<
med, thi
4a 6d, no -
aro well m
goo
Infant’s i
Gowns t]
2sllduc
Infants’
that we
now 5s
Infants’
that we
now 6s &
French & 3
Hats thatv
6d now II
Ditto tha
20s now I
Ditto ths
12s 6d no's
Laces, Glo
rasols, S
Collars
r r>,
Bar
in
Unde
ing
10 pe
all<
Gat
si
Ba
Bab.,
E
ar
proc
Ba:
Mi
li
fas
Ba
Ei
Scar!
LEADER and STARK confident
of the abovementioned Goods. L
the value thoyare offering during '
Annual Sale, They, of course, o
article in their large stock in ar
BAltAif. Insmaction.


Messrs. David Jones and Co.’s Carpet
Warehouse.
In the accompanying sketch is given a view of the
carpet warehouse of the firm of Messrs. David
Jones and Co., George-street. This edifice has a
massive and handsome exterior, and gives a fair
idea of the kind of warehouse now being erected
in other parts of Sydney. It has a frontage of
60 feet with a'depth of 115 feet, and rises to tho
height of throe storeys. It is built of Pyrmont
stone, and is of the Italian Renaissance style of
architecture. Messrs. D. Jones and Co. carry on
their principal business at the well-known house
at the corner of Barrack and George streets ; and
only the carpet trade, itself one of great impor-
tance, isj carried on at the warehouse now
illustrated. The firm of David Jones and Co.
was established 45 years ago, and the house has
ranked from its foundation as one of the first in
the Australian colonies. The business has always
been of a high class, substantial character, and
while in soft goods the general wants of the
whole community have been provided for
tho house lias been made tho emporium for
the higher class of English and French manufac-
tures. In this latter respect the firm has placed
the city on a par with London or Paris,the windows
and show rooms of tho establishment being always
adorned with the latest and most elegant novelties.
The firm have given no less attention to their
clothing department, the proportions of which
have recently been greatly extended on account of
the admitted fexcellence! of the work and the
liberal figures which the increased business per-
mits of. The firm do one of the principal carpet
businesses of the city, and require as already
indicated a separate branch for the trade. The
stock of carpets is perhaps the largest and most
varied and valuable to be found in any one house
in the colonies; and here of course is only the
open stock. The department is under the super-
vision of an expert in this line of business, and
the furnishing of a house with this as well as with
all other material is effected with taste and
judgment. The splendid manner in which the new
Government departments have been furnished
with carpets and tapestry, is a triumph of no
ordinary character of this well-known firm; the
furnishing is, throughout, of the richest and most
appropriate description. Government House has
recently been furnished with a like effect. The
firm have also the principal business of the Sydney
houses, in the furnishing of the saloons of the
principal colonial mail and passenger boats, and
they carry out this branch of the business in the
very best style.
STAGE GOSSIP.
John Hill, E.A.M., is still living.
J. H. Deorwyn is an excellent copyist.
Mr. Cates is said to be a great Hamlet.
John Bennett’s loss is more than £5OOO.
Liddy had an enormous house for his benefit.
J. J. Wallace is in Sydney en route for America.
When is Harry Emmett’s new opera to be sung?
George Darrell makes up “ prettier” than ever.
Grattan Riggs’ benefit was not equal to his
deserts.
Lots of manuscript was burnt in the Victoria
Theatre.
They couldn’t stop the “Kelly Gang” in New
Zealand,
The Marion Willis Company are still at
Ballarat.
Bessie Royal is still with Lyster’s Opera
Company.
Horace Lingard and his charming wife are back
in Sydney.
There will be no Pantomime in Sydney next
Christmas.
The Raphael Troupe of Gymnasts and Acrobats
are in N.Z.
There is no protection for dramatic authors in
this colony.
George Darrell’s real name, itlappears ’from a
report of law proceedings, is George Price.
Mr. W. H. Paling, tho music seller, sent Mr.
Broadhurst a new piano and a cheque for £25.
“ The Serious Family” and a musical olio was
the bill of fare at Wm. Hoskins farewell benefit ”at
Wellington, N.Z.
The Froliques divided £5OO for a week’s busi-
ness in Auckland, N.Z. “ Shylock” was out of it, and
has been sick over since.
Lottie Elliott, of the Froliques (who recently
went to America), received a regular salary of £lO a
week and Charley Reed £l2.
Professionals say that the Auckland impresario
“ Shylock” is the hardest nut to crack in Australasia.
He will have his pound of flesh.
Mr. and Mrs. Roberts appeared at St. George’s
Hall, Melbourne, on Monday and Tuesday last, in
“ Merry Moments, with success.
We know a critic who doesn’t know “ His
lodgings on the cold ground” from "Believe me if
all those endearing young charms.” m-.-.
Shepherd, of the Royal, is as hot on dead-heads
as Kitts was.
What sort of a King will Johnny Welsh play
this Christmas P
“ H.M. Singapore Guards” was killed by bad
acting and singing.
“ Betsy ” is pretty enough to make a thousand
babies cry after her.
Gordon Gooch is making money in Auckland
(N.Z.) teaching music.
George Honey, the celebrated English come-
dian, has died of paralysis.
A benefit entertainment to Mr. Broadhurst is
being arranged in Ashfleld.
Actors dress much better and go home earlier
than they did ten years ago.
“ Les Cloches de Cornoville” is now on tho road
for its 800th night in London.
Mr. Geo. Curwen, originator of the tonic-sol-fa
movement in England, is dead.
L. M. Bayless’ friends don’t recognise him
now he’s lost that flowing beard.
Ketten gave .£5O to the Victoria orchestra, who
lost their instruments in tho fire.
Clara Stephenson is playing in Wellington, sup-
ported by a good burlesque company.
Gerald Dillon expects to be the Henry V. when
Eignold relinquishes that martial role.
The Carandinis, assisted by a new company, are
giving “farewell concerts " in N.Z. towns.
Professor Haselmayer is travelling his “Won-
derful Picture” in the Southern districts.
Johnny Hydes had a big benefit at Christchurch,
N.Z., a week ago, at which B. J. Kennedy, a stock
actor well-known in Sydney, appeared.
Ole Bull, the celebrated violinist, attempted
suicide when twenty years of age. That was the com-
mencement of his farewell performances.
Harry Maxted, brother to Frank, is a flautist.
His house was infested with rats. Harry and his flute
played Dick Whittington with those rats.
A monster testimonial benefit is being organised
to partially recoup Mr. John Bennett for his losses by
the late fire. He is fully £5OOO out of pocket.
A French provincial playbill, in setting forth the
particulars of a new drama, announces that the roles of
thieves will be played by amateurs of the town.
The Empsons, with Alexander, the Australian
Blondin," and Harris, the trapezia!, have been play-
ing at Maryborough, Queensland, with fair success.
Henry Irving wanted £25,000 to take his com-
pany to New York and play there for iifty nights.
Lester Wallack thought the terms a “little” too high.
Mdle. Beangrand, premier dansexise of the Paris
opera, who has just retired, commenced at one franc a
night. When she left she received 25,000 francs a year.
Have we no one spirited enough to buy the aiL.
of the old Victoria and build another theatre ? 119
Happy is the manager who can write up with a
calm conscience, “ Free list entirely suspended.” a
The proprietors of L’Entr’-Acte wish to show
how it can be stretched—so publish a supple-ment
“ The Turn of the Tied.” Haynmn know some,
thing of this. He used to be able to do “the cabinet
trick.” et
A prima donna, according to a Cockney
naturally a timid creature, for her art is always in’h 8
throat. aer
“Juvenile Pinafore,” under Mrs. Lewis an
pears at the Mechanics’ Hall, Ballarat, on 12th and lan!
current. 0111
L. M. Bayless has taken the Guild Hall f 0«
three years, and intends calling it the New Victor
Theatre. na
Messrs. Craig and Lingard were playing a t
"pitch and toss” for nine days between Sydney s ana
Adelaide. J uu
Several of the most celebrated European
pianistes have of late been incapacitated by dieihe
whitlows. ° uu
The Australasian compliments Miss Mvra
Kemble on the advance in her acting in “
Babylon.” " ew
Mr. Irving’s next novelty will bo “ Rienzi ”
by W. Gnills. The " Corsican Brothers” seems to hav»
been shelved.
Joseph Williams, of Victoria-street, Auckland.
N.Z., is the best tailor of that town. All show neonU
pay him a visit.
George Lingard and Patterson, with their Zea
laudia Panorama, arc at Wellington, 'N.Z. The show
proceeds direct to Great Britain in a ‘couple of weeks
time.
“ Tho Vag.,” in his “ Circular Notes” to some
of the country papers, says the London Comedy Com-
pany is played out. Somebody’s x>ress ticket must have
run out.
“Believe me if all these endearing young
charms,” which Ketten played, and “My lodging i 3
the cold, cold ground,” which ho did not piny, are not
a little bit alike.
The popular lecturer, Mr. W. 11. Thompson, com-
mences a season at the Guild Hall on the 18th, with
his gory views of the American military struggle, ana
listen! with gifts !
Thompson’s Panorama, and Lieutenant Herman,
ventriloquist, being the only amusement in Dunedin,
N.Z., for some time, had a very long run. Gifts formed,
un additional attraction.
“ The Shaughraun ” is likely to have a long run
at the Adelphi. Writing of Boucicault’s re-appearance,
a home paper says :—“ That Mr. Boucicanlt’s name is »
good name to conjure with, the crowded audience
assembled to give its possessor enthusiastic greeting


his return abundantly testified. From the first scene
to the last, Mr. Boucicault os Conn played on the risible
Tnnscles and on the sympathies of his audience with
~mist«keable effect, and his success was attested by
repeated ca il s ’to the footlights, and by enthusiastic
■peering agaiu and again renewed.”
The latest song and dance novelties in the States
“The Beau Brothers.” People call them "The
paralysers,” aud it’s said that they have eclipsed all
their predecessors in this line.
A certain New Zealand theatrical writer signs
himself “ Thersites.” A sarcastic man says that, judg-
(bit from the rest of his paper, “ Thersites” (the prince
of liars) is probably the editor.
The Australian Mammoth Minstrels, who are
obont to visit England, are uot all cornstalks. The
boys have left off “guessing" and “reckoning,” aud
are trying to say hirst and cawnt.
The lecturer who orates for the Panorama of
fhe Australian colonies, now iu N.Z., the other evening
eravely informed his audience that the Australian
aboriginal was “past recreation."
Harry Lockrey is working up a big benefit for an
old chum who is destitute through sickness aud mis-
fortune. Let us hope the Sydney public will rally round
and support him iu such a good cause.
Miss Ellen Terry’s performance of Jolanthe in
Kinc» Kene’s daughter has driven her admirers mad
with delight. It is universally acknowledged to he the
sweetest and most poetical of all her conceptions.
Fred. Hilton is at home, running a panorama of
Australia. He was last heard of at Brighton. The
Miss M. Dale, by whom the Brighton papers say he
is assisted, must be a misprint for Miss Liddle (his
wife!-
Burton’s Circus performed
Inverell on 26th and 27th ult.
When in Sydney, the Sol-
dene troupe had a season of 48
nights.
Column's “ Heir-at-Law ”
is to he revived at North Shore,
amateurs.
It used to be Belton s
boast that “no actor was ever
hanged, Sir! ”
Things are improving. This
is August and “ East Lynne ’ ’ has
only neen played here twice this
year.
Dampier played Richard
111 for his benefit at the Queens-
land Theatre. The house was
densely crowded.
_ of the Queen’s
company, heard about the
pomps aud vanities on Sunday.
He said he could stand vanities
hut no Pomps.
Grattan Riggs, supported
by Mr. and Mrs. E. Holloway,
Maggie Oliver, Sam Poole, and
Norman Vane, opened at New-
castle to a good house.
Miss Madeline St. Clair,
with her fresh young voice, is a
great attraction in Mr. T. H.
■Eainford’s suburban concerts,
iind her duets with her sister
Miss Marie are streams of mel-
low harmony.
Mrs. Frederick Marshall
will make her first appearance
here in “ The Turn of the Tide.”
The lady has a fine presence and
melodious voice, so we shall
•doubtless he well pleased with
her.
Is the Great Case of
Divorce coming on ? Bates and
Titheradge have already shown
us this. When the Case was
first brought before the Sydney
public—9th September, 1878-
Bates and W. G. Cnxey were the
•two barristers.
MaryL. Young’s last ap-
pearance in Sydney was on the
4th June, ’77. On that (her
benefit) night she appeared as
Parthenia (“Ingomar”) and as
Pocahontas in the burlesque of
' • that name. Chaplin played In-
gomar and Powhata respec-
tively. Annie Pixley left this
city on the Ist June of the same
year.
In the comedy of “ Betsy,”
at the Theatre Royal, Mr. Ned.
Marshall’s changed appearance,
as Mr. Dawson, the tutor ami
friend of the family, is atrinmph
of the dressing-room. To every-
one who has not seen this clever
representation, we say, “Go,
before it is too late.”
Emily Soldene is in the
English provinces with “ The
Naval Cadets,” surrounded by a
fine company to wit, Clara
Vefeoy, Rose Stella, pretty Miss
Duggan, Signor Lcli, Signer
Olmi, E. Marshall, and John
Wallace. Her trip to tho
colonies, after Melbourne, is de-
cided on
Madame Leminens-Sher-
rington proposes to make a fare-
well tour through some of tho
English provinces during the
coming autumn, and will take
the opportunity of introducing •
to public life her two daughters,
who have been studying under
Madame Jenny Lind-Gold-
schmidt.
The Stewart Family have
made one appearance at the
Crystal Palace, in “Rainbow
Revels,” and met with a cordial
reception. The paper we quote
from considers Mr. Stewart it
•clever all-round artist, with
extraordinary humorous talent;
Miss Docy, an attractive per-
former, with a good voice ; Misa
Maggie, extremely versatile;
and Miss Nellie, an expert
■dancer, a perfect mistress of
the guitar, and rivalling her
sisters in versatility.
Herr Hugo Alpen is working very vigorously with
the Glebe Musical Society for their next concert, when
will be given selections from Balfe’s “ Bohemian Hiri.
The society is rapidly increasing in popularity, and in
numbers. It has our best wishes for its success.
Humorists are often people who, outside of
their facetious writings, are as sour as a vinegar keg,
and as cross as two slicks. One of these, a low come-
dian, lives in a room adjoining that of a young mother.
She is very anxious lest her baby may disturb tins saa-
funuy man when it cries of nights; but, when he speaks
of it, he assures her, with a property smile, that he
dotes on babies, and yet that man has been going round
to the newspaper offices all the week, trying to sell
an article which he has written in defence of Herod.
The scenery of the Theatre Royal, Wellington,
N.Z., must he iu a bad state judging from the following
par, clipped from one of the local papers: 4 Lizzie
Morgan sang two ballads, hut she scarcely seemed in
her test voice, nor was the orchestral accompaniment
in perfect harmony. Perhaps the new and startling
scene which was run on for the occasion slightly
disturbed the equanimity of the fair artiste and of rhe
musicians. It was evidently a new and unfinished eiiort
in scenic art, and may in course of time evolve into
something picturesque or artistic. At present it is a
fearfully wonderful design, intended apparently to repre-
sent the entrance to a brick-kiln or an abbatoir, or
perchance a morgue.
A certain deacon, who carries the books into
the pulpit for his pastor before every service, on
mounting the stairs to hear Ketfcen at the Opera House,
carried his wife’s fan carefully on two open hands until
he found out his mistake.
As It is now apparently a settled fact that Ade
laide Nelson, who is facile imnceps as Juliet and Imogen,
is coming out to Australia, it will he interesting to
state that for her San Francisco engagement she re-
ceived 500 dollars (£125 a night.
A Public Entertainments Prohibition Bill has
been introduced iu the N.Z. Parliament, the object of
which is to interdict such performances as the recent
sensational play of “ Tho Kellys, or Retribution,
played in various parts of New Zealand.
The Patti' season in Paris was a pronounced
success, in spite of the indifferent support she received.
Her 22 appearances at the GaietiS realised £26,000, of
which she received £BOOO. The impressario (M.
Merelli) cleared £7OOO after paying expenses.
The Australasian deals very roughly indeed
with “ Our Village, a new and original operatic satire,”
the libretto and music of which were written by Messrs.
H. W. Emmett and David Cope respectively, and which
was produced at the Bijou, Melbourne, last week. It
says that the plot is foggy, and that only guesses can
he made as to whom the piece is intended to satriise
There is neither wit, humour, nor point in it; but, on
the other hand, the critic says that Mr. Cox>e has writ-
ten some very pretty music for the very dull piece,
which, however, music could uot save. Mrs. Clarke
Miss Wooldridge, Miss Dixon, Mr. G. P. Carey, and
Mr. Vernon took the leading parts, and everybody con
cerned in the cast worked with a notable will to save it
from immediate extinction.
Sara Bernhardt played at Versailles on May 24,
and was received like a queen, rather than a fugitive,
her way being strewn with flowers. The enthusiasm
with which she was received at the theatre beggars
description.
Miss Ada Cavendish, who has lately returned to
England, and who has made a very successful American
tour, will not stay in that country, hut will go hack to
America almost directly. She is making a great deal
of American money.
The following appears in London papers;
“ Iniunction--Dramatic Performance—Agreement.—
Rogers v. Wilmot (May 6).-This was a motion to
restrain the defendant from ceasing to perform, at the
Duke’s Theatre, a piece known as ‘ Conrad and Lizette,
ns arranged in an agreement made between the parties.
At, the conclusion of the evidence Vice-Chancellor
Malms said that the proprietor of the theatre entered
into an agreement with the plaintiffs to perform a cer-
tain piece, and the latter was to receive halt of the
balance after the receipts had reached LUO a week,
but, during the four weeks the piece had been per-
formed, the receipts had never reached anything Lke
that sum. He could not see how it was possible that
he should insist on the proprietor to continue to per-
form a piece at hia theatre which was causing him a
serious loss, and, under the circumstances, the motion
must he refused with lwcnt home as
j agent for Baker and Earron.
Onr correspondent at Auckland writes as follows
July 26 ; —The Steele Dramatic Company, at the Theatre
Royal, since their re-opeuiug a week ago, have done
poor business. It, is not for the want of changes in the
programme, for a new play has been put on the hoards
every other night. A new dramatic version of Miss
Braiidou’s novel, “ Henry Dunbar,” was the attraction
on Friday evening, and on Sat urday it was repeated iu
conjunction with an original sketch, “ Catching the
Kellys.” This drew tho biggest houses of the week.
To-night “ Rob Roy” will form the bill of fare.—The
Lynch Family of Bellringers made money travelling iu
the country districts, and on Saturday night appeared
iu the Lorue-streot Hall before a good house. To-night
they give their last performance, and leave for the
South to-morrow. —Mr. and Mrs. Hart n.ud their small
company occupy tho Lorue-street Hal! to-morrow
night.
Onr correspondent writes that tho Lingards’
season at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide, was anything
but a success. He says that people expected, after the
way in which these professionals have been landed in the
other colonies, to see something very superior and were
disappointed. "Mrs. Lingard,” be remarks, “is a
pleasing aud very graceful actress—but, having said
,that, one can say no more. The only character of any
consequence in which Mr. Lingard appeared was Middle-
wick ; but, after witnessing Marshall, Hall, and Jack, in
the part, Adelaide folks did not think much of his ren-
dering. Then, too, tho Lingards have been playing
either hackneyed pieces or dramas aud comedies which
have not for the most part made any great reputation,
and their non-success is consequently not astonishing.
Hudson’s Surprise Party have been playing at tho
Academy of Music to moderate audiences, and the
Mammoth Minstrels are now at Garner’s Theatre,
where they are doing a fair business." But then, you
see, Adelaide people never had.
Tills is wliat a N.Z. paper says of Lilly Hos-
kins —“ People will soon get tired of those farewell
benefits Mr. Hoskins is so fond of taking. Porting may
he to the veteran a sorrow of such surpassing sweetness
that he likes to indulge in these repeated good-byes,
but after a few more representations the public will
be'rin to doubt whether Mr. Hoskins ever means to for-
sake the profession to which he has been an ornament
for so many years.”
Says a London paper:— “ The party (the
Stewarts) brought as credentials various “ opinions of
the press,*’ among them being the following critical
gems.—“We rather fancy it would have been nearer
the truth to call the piece a casket of gems, for the en-
tertainment is nothing more or less than a medley—a
collection of musical morceanx, with a groundwork ot
funny dialogue, made up of sterling materials, and in
which, wit. humour, caricature, burlesque, and a dash ot
sentiment, are most judiciously cemented with music
mirth, and song.— Sydney Evening Kews, Jiln - ff? d ’
“ The entertainment may be likened to the sparkling
fountain playing in the warm sunlight—with enchant-
ing people gambolling round the circle ot its rays, it
is the soul of animation ; it is elegant, entertaining, and
cheering, ever presenting something new, something
droll, graceful, or pleasing:”— Bendigo Advertiser,
April Ist. Although wo cannot hope in London to
emulate the eloquence of the critics of the Antipodes,
it may be said that the Stewart family were very favoui-
ahly received, and that their entertainment was
evidently appreciated by the audience.
There is a great demand in London from America
just now for handsome actors for the New York boards,
the success achieved by the lamented Montague and
by Mr. George Rignold having shown that personal
charms are as potent to attract the crowd when dis-
played in a masculine shape as when shown iu a feminine
one. But, just at present, the English stage offers
nothing very striking in that line.
A London theatrical journal says that the great
couiiqne M’Dennott makes .£4O a week at the Music
Halls. He keeps his brougham, dates from the Junior
Garrick, dresses like a swell, drinks champagne, smokos
good cigars, and I have no doubt blesses the day when
lie first determined to give up the “heavy lead” and
melodrama to sing “ We don’t want to fight,” to relate
the history of the “ D—d Scamp,” and to become, like
his own Sir Hildebrant Montrose, “ the darling of the
ladies.”
Mr. Henry William Corbyn, theatrical agent,
was found dead in his bod at the Oxford Hotel, on
Saturday. He was brother to Sheridan Corbyn, who
introduced tho Georgia Minstrels, and a sou of Mr.
Randall Corbyn, the well-known theatrical agent. The
unfortunate ivau had lately arrived from India, had
suffered severely from neuralgia of late, and had, it is
believed, lost a considerable sum of money since reach-
ing Sydney. On Friday evening he locked himself in
his room at the hotel. As he had frequently remained
iu lied for a very long time no notice was taken of the
fact that he did not rise next morning. However, ns he
had not when mid-day of Saturday arrived opened his
door it wab broken open, and he was found lying dead,
with nn extensive aud evidently self-inflicted wound
across the arteries of his left arm. An inquest was
held, and the jury returned a verdict that deceased
> committed suicide.
Fairclough has been sue
cessfnl at Adelaide as Riche
lieu.
Our N.Z. correspondent
states that theatrical matters
are still at a low ebb in Maori
land. There are no bright parti-
cular stars at present dazzling
the public, and dramatic com-
panies find “ treasury days’ "
few and far between. He says a
first-class variety show and no
cruel people would make big
money.
Miss Blanche Stammers i
herimpesonationof Betsy, at th
Royal, is most refreshing
throughout. Of the exquisite
finish which characterises her
slightest gesture, of the perfect
modulation of her singularly
dulcet tones, or of the fascina-
tion her presence exerts over the
audience no less than over the
susceptible heart of Dolly, it is
impossible to speak too highly.
There was great trouble
last Saturday among some of
the professionals, three of them
who had taken passage for Ade-
laide, eu route for England, and
suddenly found themselves in.
the hands of the sheriff’s otiicer,
at the instance of a manager
who claimed damages for trench
of contract. They were taken,
to Darling-hurst, but matters
were eventually settled.
We hope soon to see Mr.
Shepherd again on the boards of
the Royal. Some years ago, in
“ Eileen Oge,” ho took the part
of Father Mahouy in the origi-
nal east at the Gaiety, Dublin.
Mr. Shepherd is an Englishman,
and the fact that he achieved
a very marked success under
such trying circumstances
speaks volumes.
Miss Alice Sydney Burvett,
a native of Sydney, says tho
European Mail, after a lengthy
sojourn in most of the leading
cities of the Continent, has
returned to London once more
to delight all the musicians
with the excellence of her play
upon tho pianoforte. At
Brussels and in Bavaria she
received high compliments from
royalty.
A remarkable feature in
the drama of “Eileen Ogo ” was
the tableaux, in which Patrick
O’Donnell (Mr. W. G. Carey) is
supposed to he wrecked on a
desolate island, aud at length
catches sight of a Sail, &c. The
strange part is that he appeared
clean shaved. We suppose he
was washed on shore in com-
pany with a piece of soap and
a razor.
W. H. Seagrave’s benefit
in Rockhampton literally packed
the house. He is a prime favour-
ite there. “ Blow for Blow ’*
was played, with Alick Andrews
as Dr. Grace. They are now
playing “ Pinafore,” with C. A.
Tyrell as the Admiral, South as
Captain, Miss Pender as Jose-
phine, Sea grave as Deadeye,
Alick Andrews as Eackstraw,
and Miss H. Tulloeh as Butter-
cup.
in the Supremo Court,
Christchurch the other day,
Thomas Bracken, proprietor of
the Saturday Advertiser, sued
George Darrell, actor, for hi,ooo
damages for an alleged libel
published iu a hand I ill at the
Theatre Royal, Wellington, said
libel being an insinuation ihat
the plaintiff had attempted to
blackmail the defendant. The
jury gave the plaintiff a verdict
for £5O.
R. S. Smythe is in Sydney
again, at his old games. “ Yonr
omission to secure Ned Kelly’s
clothes was your first decided
oversight," said we, when he
entered onr office. ‘‘You’re
wrong," said the impressible,
“ I don’t regret it at all. But X
really am sorry that I wasn’t
here when Rochefort was in.
Sydney. I could have made &
pile out of him.”
The International Hotel.
We give a sketch this week of the International
Hotel, corner of Pitt and King streets, in this
city. It was lately occupied by Mr. Edward
Trickett, the champion oarsman, but is now the
property of Mr. James Hunt, who for a lengthy
period managed the bar department of the Crown
and Anchor, for Mr. Roberts. Mr. Hunt has in-
fused new life into the management of the Inter-
national, and is confident of doing a business
second to none in the metropolis. The very best
liquors obtainable have been secured, Mr. Hunt a
experience in this respect standing him in good
service. The bar trade will in future be the
feature of the business, and this will bo con-
ducted with a determination to secure a continu-
ance of tho present popularity of the hotel. Ihe
spacious room beneath the bars has been con-
verted into a first-class billiard saloon. It is fur-
nished with two first-class tables, and here, as in
other parts of the hotel, visitors will meet with
courtesy and attention. Mr. Hunt will generally
1 superintend the business.
THE INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, PITT AND KING STREETS.


Auctioneers and Commission Agents
J
OHNB R I D G
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Auctioneer,
E,
LITE STOCK AND STATION AGENT,
Flour, Grain, and Metal Broker.
T N. MEIKLEJOHN AND CO.,
” • Produce and Commission Agents,
Market Wharf and A.S.N. Company’s Wharf,
Sydney.
Regular consignments of Hay, Com, and Bran always
on hand, sold at market rates, subject to a
guarantee as regards quality.
All orders by post or otherwise promptly attended to.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Accouu
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
CT. B U R P IT T,
• HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
359, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET. SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY GR BY AUCTION.
PW. CEOW'E & CO., STOCK, STATION
• AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
4 BAEEACK STREET,
SYDNEY.
N.B. —We have always Orders on hand for Hay,
Com, &c., consigned to us.
NO DELAY.
WELLS AND SMITH BROTHERS, Auc-
tioneers, Commission Agents, and Dead Meat
Salesmen, hold Sales by Auction as follows :
BEEP, Mutton, and Pork, at the Orange Slaughtering
Company’s Sheds, Darling Harbour—every day.
WOOD. Posts and Rails, at Darling Harbour Railway
Station—every day.
HAY, Straw, Corn, Oats, Wheat, Flour and Potatoes,
&c., at Darling Harbour Railway Station—on Mon-
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
COWS, Pigs, Calves, Poultry, Cheese, Bacon, Eggs,
&c., at their Saleyards, 699 George-street, Sydney—
every Friday.
WOOD, Posts and Rails, at Newtown Railway Station
—on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
WOOL, Sheepskins, Hides, and Tallow, at their Stores,
Darling Harbour—every Thursday.
HEAD OFFICE-699 GEORGE-STREET. SYDNEY.
Horses and Vehicles
KEAREY BROTHERS,
COACH AND BUGGY BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
David m‘ c all,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY".
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Eight Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., ard His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B. —Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
s.
G L
SON
S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Haeeis-stbeet, off Geoege-steest,
and
Adjoining tlie Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G.hegs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Tobacconists
T H
E GENUINE
VIRGINIAN TOBACCO,
Comprising Every Description,
Manufactured by the renowned firm, Cameron & Co.,
Richmond, Virginia,
To he had at the Wholesale Depot,
639 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket.
C. LOUGHNAN.
JAMES EVE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired,
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
c.
P R I N C
TOBACCONIST,
149, KING STREET,
E,
Begs to inform his Friends and the Public that they can
obtain a really first class article in TOBACCO, CIGARS,
kc., at his establishment.
Just received a fine assortment of WALKING
STICKS in all the latest novelties.
Observe the Address
149, KING STREET.
Opposite the stall entrance of the Theatre Royal.
Hotels, Sec.
C
OAC H AND HORSES HOTEL,
MITTAOONG,
Within three minutes of the Railway Station.
Mb. C. SHEATHEB. PROPRIETOR.
Buggy always in attendance at the station.
may lie certs
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain o!
location
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
c
AELTON CLUB HOTE
199 Elizabeth-St., Hyde Park.
H. Oiiii'HANT Paton, Proprietor.
Healthiest position and most comfortable Hotel in
Sydney. Private Suites of Apartments.
Detached BAR; BATHS, STABLING, 4c.
Hot Coffee, Rum and Milk, &c., from 4.30 a.m. Table
d’hote 1 p.m. daily.
Id on parle Francais.
HIS K Y
FRAUDS.
READ PAMPHLET and PURCHASE ONLY
ROE’S V FIVE-YEAR-OLD DUBLIN
UNBLENDED WHISKY.
Recommended by the Faculty.
ROBERT PHILLIPS and CO.,
Sole Agents for New South Wales.
THE ISLAY BLEND WHISKY, Distilled by
Messrs. Mackie and Co., of Glasgow and Islay, is
fast becoming a favourite in nearly all the British
colonies. For purity, strength and flavour it cannot he
excelled, and the analytical report certifies to its being
“ A very line spirit with that delicate bouquet charac-
teristic of the finest Scotch whiskies only ; it is
thoroughly matured, and can be recommended as a
most wholesome and pleasant whisky.”
Agent for New South Wales and Q„ Jr;
JAM lb o
BASS’S PALE ALE
and
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT,
Bottled by
IHLERS’ and BELL,
LIVERPOOL.
The undersigned have been APPOINTED SOLE
AGENTS for the above Celebrated Bottlers, and arc m
receipt of regular shipments.
WILLIAM WOLFEN AND CO.,
Bridge Street.
I L
mm
Ca
m
lOk
HADE MARrt
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
s selected with great, care from the best of the brftw-
igs of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
ud CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J, E. CATTELL and CO.,
Solo Agents.
"T is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog;
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
ition. Common bitter crude beers are made very me,
it no other brand has rue same mellow vinous ciiarac-
r, the fulness on the pa’ate, and the great heepmg
ialities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
ro cautioned against traders who for the sake of aa
tra profit represent the common beers referred to as
ual in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
Sole Agents.
M
ETROPOLITAN STAKES CONSULTA-
TION, 1880.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows :
First Horse ... ... £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse 200
Starters (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on usua
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
Tattersall’s Club, Sydney.
Adelaide town bp.ands superfine flour..
sacks, halves, and quarters; Hart’s, Magarey s«
Duffield’s, and Dunn’s; ADELAIDE Country Branny
superfine Flour, various; VICTORIAN and N. »•
WALES Flour. BEILBY aud CO.
Legal
M
R.
A.GOD F E E Y
SOLICITOR,
(Also of the Supreme Court of Queensland),
Has commenced practice in Sydney.
Office—s 3 Elizabeth-steeet.
s
HOETEE & FITZGERALD,
Solicitors,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
A&d
Macquarie Street, Dubbo.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of hiaprofesaion, at IS9 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w
Business Cards
BEDE
ILLIAM BEDE CHRISTIE,
Licensed Surveyor,
(Surveyor under the Real Property Act),
LAND AGENT,
14 Bridge-street, Sydney.
R
OBERTS, HARRIS, AND WESTON.
LICENSED SURVEYORS. LAND AGENTS,
ARBITRATORS, AND VALUERS.
Rescissions and reclamations specially dealt with.
Run Maps compiled to latest date. Office —Royal Blue
House ; Chambers, 130, Pitt-strcet.
LACHMANN AND PARKE S,
ARCHITECTS,
267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
W,
MAC L E O
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 Bourke-street, Woolloomooloo.
D,
Cl.
AND S. PRJJDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ekseine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
TTjIOWLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
S
Price List on application.
lT
IGN O R A L. P. FA B R IS,
Professor of Singing,
173 VICTORIA STREET,
Darlinghurst.
M
ISS ELISE SHERWIN,
(Prom Tasmania),
TEACHER OF THE PIANOFORTE,
173 Victoria-street.
SKINNER AND CO., 18 KING-STREET,
- BRASSFOUNDEHS, PLUMBERS, AND
GASFITTERS.
Beer Engine s—C heap,
F. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
* CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-nics, &c., catered for in the
best style.
R
OBE R T BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
538 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
E MASON, LAND AGENT, 244 Palmer-
• street, Woolloomooloo, Sydney, has BLOCKS
of LAND for Sale at Waverley, also Allotments in
Narrandera and Wagga Wagga.
c
HAS.
H.
DANIEL,
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
rpiIOMAS PLAYFAIR,
SHIPPING,
WHOLESALE, AND FAMILY BUTCHER,
103 GEORGE STREET.
T LAWLER, Importer and Manufacturer of
• brass and iron BEDSTEADS and children’s
COTS, palliasses, mattresses, bolsters and pillows,
blankets, sheets, counterpanes, mosquito curtains, and
valances. J. LAWLER, 608 George-street.
D
MITCHELL AND COMPANY,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
Wholesale Grocers, &c..
Gamer of York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney.
Our Prices Current for Groceries, &c., giving lowest
market quotations, is issued the first of every month,
and circulated gratis throughout the colony. Store-
keepers who have not received our Circular will do so
by forwarding us their address.
GABRIEL AND CO.,
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from pfahlert’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
T
H E
GREAT AMERICAN
GATE PUZZLE.
THE MOST INTRICATE IN THE WORLD !
IT EXCELS ANYTHING YET PRODUCED!
Per Sale at all Stationers, Toy, and Novelty Shops.
PRICE SIXPENCE.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAPE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited
The ladles’ and gentlemen's RESTAURANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chef de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKIIAM,
Manager,
June 30.1830.
lOMPAGNONI PALACE CAPE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS nt
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
HE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE,
393, 395, 397 George Street.
The most POPULAR HOTEL in Sydney.
Fifty good Bedrooms. Billiard, Smoking, and Reading
Rooms.
The Billiard Room has two of Alcock's Best Tables,
Chess, Draughts, and Dominoes. All the Intercolonial
Weekly Newspapers.
Meals at all hours. First-class Cooking. Bill of
Fare constantly varied. Fish always. The finest Tea,
Coffee, Cocoa, and Chocolate. The Ladies’ and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Retiring Rooms are unsurpassed in
magnificence.
Bedrooms are let by the week at 10s. 6d., or 2s.
nightly. Meals only charged when partaken of. No
fees or gratuities to servants.
C. J. HUGHES.
General Manager.
T
HE SYDNEY COFFEE PALACE No. 2,
158 George-street, and 13 New Pitt-street,
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPEN.
The Premises are Three-Storied, and have 27 feet
frontages to both George-street and Pitt-street, Circular
Quay, with a through depth of 228 feet, arranged,
into —
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50 x 27 i 110 x 27feet
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convenient re-
tiring room, Ac-) 50 x 27 feet
Coffee Roem 27 x 27 feet
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Room, Smoking Room,
(all loading papers). Parlours, Lavatories, Bath
Rooms, gpc., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Open-air Promenade on
Roof, with View of Sydney Harbour.
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Bakehouse, and Pastry,
cook’s Department, Pantries, Larder, Serving Rooms
and spacious Shop Accommodation, are all filled ux in
a most complete manner, and quite capable of meetn-g
the demands of thousands of persons daily.
Family and Picnic Parties supplied to order en the
shortest notice with hajnpers.
CJ. R O B B R T S’
• SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine,' for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Rum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
4 FACT,
j- That the Old Liverpool Arms,
(corner of Pitt and King Streets),
is the Best House to get a Glass of Good Drink.
Also, the Cheapest House for Bottled Stuifs.
Proprietor, DAVID H. WABBY.
The best shilling lunch in town
(including a Glass of Alo or a Cup of Tea
is to be had at
H. DONALDSON’S MERCANTIE HOTEL
AND
LUNCHEON BOOMS,
BRIDGE-STREET.
Soup, Fish, Entrees, Joints, Pastry, Cheese
and Salad.
Discount luncheon tickets can be purchased at
the bar in packets of eleven for ten shillings,
available for any day.
Table d’hote on Sundays at 1 p.m
FREE COUNTER LUNCH.
COME AND TASTE THE OLD CHESHIRE CHEESE.
ICTORIA HOTEL.
Having taken the above hotel ’and mode extensive
alterations and which will he fitted np in the moat
fashionable style, I trust that by keeping the best
bran ts of Wines, Spirits, &c., and conducting it in the
most respectable manner, to merit the support of the
public.
GEORGE COLLINS,
Proprietor.
R°
YAL EXCHANGE HOTE
Corner King and Georgs Streets). .
L,
Superior Accommodation. 5 Billiard Tables.
New Bara and Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department.
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s Dining Rooms are now
opened under the auspices of the proprietor.
N.B. —Pic-nics, Balls, Parties, Clubs, &0., supplied on
best of terms.
EDWARD PERKINS.
OLONNADE HOTEL,
CORNER OF
KING AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
J. SHARP, Proprietor,
Respectfully begs to acquaint his friends and the
public that they can obtain the very best Wines, Spirits,
Beers, &c. at this establishment.
Counter lunch free.
First class accommodation for Country visitors at
very moderate prices.
ARTIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HOTEL has lately been opened
hy Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WIRES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c., of the Best Brands
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every five minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
Australian wine.—Carmichael’s
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace. Pints, in
3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and 2 doz. cases,
21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO., Agents, Circular Quay.


Business Announct
M
ADDOCK’S selec
381 GEORGE STEI
SYDNEY.
This Library wiH be found to contai
newest works ox
FICTION TRAVEL
POPULAR THEOLO(
which are received immediately on
and fast ocean steam
Arrangements have been made w
publishers for full supplies of eye,
interest to be sent as soon as publisl
In addition to the above wx
All the Best
MAGAZINES and QUARTER
Subscribers may join at any dab
dating from day of entrance.
The Subscription Rates for One
Magazine (exchangeable as often
One month, ss. ; Three months, 12t
255.; Twelve months, £2 2s.
To Heads or Families,— Those st
a larger supply of bowks than one set
liberally dealt with ; thus —Two seti
taken from the Library at once for T
Books or Periodicals may in all c;
Daily if desired.
To Visitors to Sydney.— Subscnj
for SHORT PERIODS. Visitors w
may even join for a Fortnight, and I
advantages of yearly members. _
To Country Residents,— Special
made for the benefit of Country Subs
taking a parcel of from Three to Tw
and the Commissioner for Railways
arrange that Exchanges from MADI
shall be Carried by Rail at ONE-i
parcel rates. A card of eountry tei
application.
Subjoined will be found a LIST of
BOOKS now in circulation:
Plain English, by John Rollings
Doctor Digby’s Letters from
Lady Eastlake
The Purcell Papers, by J. Lefan
Reata: What’s in a Name, by E
Memoirs of a Cynic, edited by V
Miss Bouverie, by Mrs. Moleswc
The Duke of Albany’s Own Hlgl
Grant
Mary Anerley: A Yorksh e Ti
more
Protection and Bad Times, by O
Honor Carmichael, by Miss Dull
The "White Month, by the Auth<
Poor Zeth, by Author of “ Gram
A Tramp Abroad, by Mark Twoi
Prince Consort, vol. 5, by Sir Tb
Haworth’s, by Francis Burnett
Our Australian Cousins, by Jam.
For Her Dear Sake, by Mary Ci
Moths, by Ouida ,
A Seamy Side, by Besant and Ri
Three Recruits, by Joseph Hath
An Australian Heroine, by R. M
England Under Beaconsfleld, by
Roughing it Van Diemen’s Land
Travels in New Zealand and j
Crawford
On Duty: A Ride through
Parker Gilmore
No Relations, by Hector Malot
Jezebel’s Daughter, by Wilkie t
Memoirs of Madame de Remuse
Mrs. Denys of Cote, by Holme I
Story of Barbara, by Miss Bradc
Pink Wedding, by M. Jephson
Queen of the Meadow, by Charh
In Kent with Charles Dickens, 1
Prince Hugo, by Maria M. Gran
Sweet Spring Time, by Catheriu
Royal Windsor, vols. 3 and 4,
Dixon
A Sword of Damocles, by Theo.
MADDOCK’S SELECT
381 George Street Sy
Open from S a.m. to 6 p.m.
w
inter <
I, AWN TENNIS, in Boxes, Regulai
TENNIS BALLS, Regulation Size c
sewn.
RACKET BATS, all prices.
FRISQUETTB, or LADIES’ CRIC
All of Jeffries’ and Mailings
GILBERT’S MATCH FOOT BAL.
mini i'S all sizes made to colonial
BOXING GLOVES. INDIAN OLE
SINGLESTICKS, Foils, Head and
■the requirements for Stick and
Presentation CRICKET BATS and
SIDNEY C
IRONMON GEI
4,08 GEORGE STi
Business Announc
BOON TO THE SYB
Mu. P. HURST, having been
boot factories on the Continent, is i
to import and sell the best makes
figure than any other house in Sydu
French calf, hand-sewn, warrantee
high-leg satin boots, Gs. Gd. Call ar
the style.
P. HURST,
494 George-stree
H
OMES FOR THI
It is difficult to understand why
continue to pay rent, when for a smt
amount now going to the landlord,
years QW FREE]
for their own profit and that of
them.
The undersigned offers a cho:
hundreds of woll-situ
VALUABLE BUiLDING AL
BALMAIN
(the most advancing of all the subur
JB4 CAorl,
and
21 QUARTERLY PAYMF
Giving Immediate Po
and will SUPPLY *
PAYABLE BY TEN SKILL!
For those having no present int
an undeniable opportunity of imi
denced by the fact of the astound,
main during the past six years, a:
that the present chance can ever rec
out of this beneficent
SCHEME FOR WORKI
There are no law (costs, no com
fence and the
TITLE is guaranteed IN Hi,
ALFRED HANCOCK, Merton I
Agency Office, Beattie-street, Bal
Hotel.
ATEST IN V
NEEDLE’S PATENT GAS A'.
For lighting Dwellings, Churches,
Buildings, Municipalities/ Cities,
For particulars sec Catalogues,
SMITH AND HAMILTON, sole A
Sole Agents for—
Messrs. McKECHNIE & BEE r
Mr. H. T. SMITH, Toronto
Messrs. RITCHIE & SON. Toi
Importers of all kinds of iron, le
fittings, castings, steam gauges, chai
soda fountains and machinery used !
of soda water and other ®rated be\ c
and bottling machines, map sheeti
&c., &c.
FIRST PRIZE (International
water Machinery, Abated Wine and
Marble Syrup Fountains, Map Stan.
SMITH AND HAM!
43 GLOBE BUI
SUSSEX STREET N(
GB. MOD
• GUNMAKER AND C
602 George Street, Syi
I Awarded 2 special prizes for eol<
Cutlery. Importer of every <
Firearms, Cutlery,
I Every description of Firearms rei
stocked on the shortest notice. I
made to order on the premises.
STIEFVATER,
Business Announc
J 3 B I N T
Of Every Descripti
AT REDUCED
Executed with Despa
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13
(Late Foster and Fai
Also,
PUBLISHING
J. ■"
OFFICE of “ TH
ted
WHOLESALE
manufacturing cor
AND
NOTED BRIDE CAKE EST
420 (late 440) GEORGE f
Sydney.
Wedding' Cakes always on hand,
on the shortest notice.
Cakes packed for the country by <
Country and Shipping orders protr
D,
SLATTERY
Wholesale and Ret
GROCE
705 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
P. M A H 0
AGENT, El
ALL KINDS OF COLONIAL ]
P.
R. LAI
Wholesale and Eel
PRODUCE MERC
Corner
GEORGE AND GIBBS
SYDNEY,
BRANCH STOREI
48 Georee-street West (late Parrai
Darlinghurst Road, near William-
Darling-street, Balmain.
Pure Capo Barley and S<
p. r. lark:
Wholesale and Retail Wine and
PRINCE OF WALES -
778 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY.
N.B.—Orders by poet punctually i
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayx
E
ZEA L A
Fifteen Coses [N. Co., |O:
S. i
Consisting of
NOVELTIES, YANKEE NOT!
Puzzles, Articles of useful
Books, &c., &c.
AMERICAN NOYEL r
Show-Rooms :
408 GEORGE STRI
(Opposite Australian Joint £
Business Announ
International pxhi
SWALLOW and ARIELL we
Prizes for their celebrated Biscu
W. H. ARIELL. 343. & 3
north Kiug-st.
, tvTERSTATIONAL ‘EXHIBIT
BENCE AFT and Co. were award
■fnr their superior Oatmeal and
Sole Agent, W. H. ARIELL, Kent
swallow and ariellt
TREACLE and GOLDEN SYKt
in tins, 2, 7, 14, and 2311)8 each, and
•md (>i cwt. each. Sole agent, '
and 345, Kent-street.
A M. HUNT’S Prize Baking Po
and assorted Jams. Special age
Sl3, and 345, Kent-st., 3 doors nc
AlInG’S music \
p
BEARD’S PARIS PI 1
have gained t
TWO FIRST P;
in
THE FRENCH
Agent: W. H. Pi
PLEYEL’S CELEBRAT
Non-competiti
BUT UNSURPA
Agent ; W. H. P.
W. BELL and CO.’S CANi
have gained t
FIRST and SPECIA
OVER ALL OT;
Sole Agent: W. H.
PALING AND C
RENOWNED PIAh
have
GAINED ANOTHE
for the
FOURTH TI
at
THE INTERNATIONAL
W. H. PALI
352 GEORGE-SI
opposite
WYNYARD-STREET
F.AlLElfpifJGi


ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE TWO RADICALS.
Mrs. Mallory came into her drawing-room
twenty minutes before the dinner-hour, and found
her son already there, alone, already dressed, and
stretched, in an attitude of extreme laziness, in an
arm-chair by the fire.
There was likeness between the mother and
son—strong likeness ; and there was also, what
most people forget in comparing relations with one
another, strong nnlikeness. Mrs. Mallory was an
elegant-looking and a young-looking woman. She
had an impassive, pale face, with thin lips and a
high nose ; pale, flaxen hair, without a grey streak
in its glossy abundance ; and the elegant trifle of
lace and feathers which she wore upon it made her
look still younger and handsomer.' She was dressed
in pale lavender silk and white lace, and she looked
a very handsome, prosperous person, as she came
in, casting a glance at Sebastian —a sharp, keen,
calculating glance. Mrs. Mallory loved power,
and had long exercised it; she did not realize that
her son had grown from a boy into a man since she
had known him. She had the lowest possible
opinion of the natural penetration of men; and
circumstances had fostered that impression.
There is a great deal in having once lived for a
terra of years in close intercourse with a person
very decidedly one’s inferior in intellect, as in the
case of Mrs. Mallory and her late husband. There
is nothing like it for giving one an overweening
idea of one’s own capacities, and for fostering an
attitude of contemptuous tolerance towards the
opinions of every one else. Mrs. Mallory’s
experience of her husband had entailed, as one of
its indirect sequences, that she was completely
deceived now by the lazy, languid manner of her
son. In this most agreeable of convictions, that
of mental supremacy over the rest of the company,
let her tranquilly abide, until her hour of dis-
illusion arrives.
“ Mother, it is too absurd that I should have to
go about representing myself as your son!
Couldn’t you pass as my sister?”
“Nonsense! Where is your friend ? ”
“ Dressing, I suppose. He was greatly excited
at hearing that a young lady was expected to dine
with us.”
Mrs. Mallory had some remarks to make a
propos of the young lady, but she deferred them
for a moment in order to inquire;
“What have you been doing all day? ”
And she placed herself in an easy-chair opposite
to his, and held a feathery screen between her face
and the fire.
“ I have been, like a good little boy, attending
to my lessons,” said her son, lazily.
‘* Ah! don’t speak in parables ! I have forgotten
how. In this dreadful place every one says the
most disagreeable things they can think of, in the
most disagreeable way they can think of, and then
call it being honest and candid. And if you can
contrive to drop a few h’s, and speak in a broad
Lancashire dialect at the same time, yon are
thought very honest and candid indeed. I detest
the place! ”
“Do you really, mother? I wonder you have
remained here so long.”
“ I have tried to do my duty, Sebastian, to you |
and your property. A woman must make
up her mind to sacrifice herself —a mother
above all others.”
“I am infinitely obliged to you, mother,
but I trust that now you will have a long
and complete rest. lam going to learn my
business ”
“Very proper, but I think it will take
you some time. With your habits, lam
afraid you will find it a frightful bore.”
“Do you know my habits, mother?” he
inquired, in the very quietest of voices.
Mrs. Mallory looked at him in some
surprise. As a matter of fact, she did not
know his habits in the very least. But,
looking at him as he lounged in his easy-
chair, with the newspaper across his knees,
she said within herself, and prided her-
self upon her discernment;
“ His father all over i weak and idle,
though he has more surface quickness. I
don’t think I shall have much trouble with
him,”
“At least, I know, dear, that your
habits have not been those of Thanshope
business men. But I suppose your first
object will be to go over the works and see
your people ? ’
“ I have been over the works, and have
seen my people, and spoken to them.”
“When —why did you not tell me? she
asked vivaciously, and with no little vexa-
tion. “You should not be so impetuous,
Sebastian.”
He laughed.
“ The first time I was ever accused
of impotuousnesa. It shows indeed that
you don’t know my habits.”|j
This was annoying, though it was
impossible to complain about it.
“ These people will not bear to be
treated unceremoniously, though they are
such bears themselves.”
“ I am not aware that I did treat them
•unceremoniously. ’ *
“What did you say to them?” she
asked, curiosity getting the better of vexa-
tion. “ I wish you had not been so hasty.
A speech of that kind requires both con-
sideration and careful management. I hope
you did not commit yourself. They are
such frightful people for taking up one’s
moat innocent remarks and construing
them into something quite different from
what one intended.”
Mrs. Mallory spoke feelingly, as if
from experience.
“Are they? Well, I don’t know that
I committed myself to anything from
which I should wish to back out later. In-
deed, I am not a fellow who is given to
backing out of his promises—but then I
make so few,” he added, thoughtfully. “ I
simply told them I was afraid there were
bad times coming, and that we must stand
by each other in them. And I said a few
words on politics.”
“My dear boy! how foolish ! Excuse me,
but it was. They are rabid Radicals, and hare a
prejudice against you already—one of their horrid,
narrow-minded prejuioes, and to mention that you
were a Conservative would certainly not improve
the situation.”
Sebastian looked a little surprised.
“ How odd it is ! Why should I tell them I was
a Conservative when I am a Radical? I spoke
the truth, of course,”
Not Mrs. Transome herself could have been
more horrified at Harold’s declaration of his views
than was Mrs. Mallory at this avowal by her son.
She forgot to shade that complexion which was not
as the complexions of other women of six-and-forty.
She laid her screen down, sat bolt upright, without
the pretence of any amiability in her expression,
and said sharply:
“ You ought to be ashamed of yourself! ”
“ I am truly sorry that I cannot oblige you by
feeling so.”
"‘You have no respect for your father, or your
grandfather—for any of your forefathers,” said
she, sullenly. “ Every man hero who can boast
of a grandfather, much more a man of good old
family like yours, ought to be a Conservative out
of pure self-respect. No ! you have no respect for
your ancestors or for yourself.”
11 Mon Dieu! I think I have as much respect for
them as they deserve. Do yon think ancestors are
really of much use ? But at least, I have more
respect for their memories than to imagine that
they would wish me simply to sit down and hobnob
with the first opinions that happened to bo offered
to mo. _ Since I have inherited my name and my
tendencies of mind from them, I must also haye
inherited my brains and my reasoning powers from
them. I have an inquiring mind, a thing, my dear
mother, which is not spontaneously generated, but
developed.”
“ That is wicked nonsense, Sebastian. I won’t
allow it.”
“ But you will allow me to explain my opinions
to you, I am sure. That is always better, and
saves so may misunderstandings.”
“ I see without explanation that you are a
renegade to your fathers, and have degraded your-
self to the level of these horrid, insolent Eadicals ;
yes, to the level of those grasping, dirty, presum-
ing workpeople. I hate them, Sebastian ; I cannot
tell you how I hate all Eadicals. How can you
refuse any of the demands of these odious people
now, professing, as you do, their own opinions ? ”
11 1 don’t know what their opinions may be, I’m
sure. Probably not at all the same as mine. But
I was going to mention that, in my quite early
youth, I once read a little sentence which made a
deep impression upon my mind. It ran thus:
‘Those who believe that heaven is what earth
has been—a monopoly in the hands of a favoured
few, would do well to reconsider their opinion ; if
they find that it came from their priest or their
grandmother, they could not do better than reject
it.”
“ I call that impiety,” said she, her lips tighten-
ing.
“ Allow mo to finish,” said he, courteously. “ I
read between the lines of that little remark, and
applied the principle contained in it to a great
many other things beside those mentioned in the
text; and the result of my continued use of that
principle as a test of institutions, opinions, and
customs has been that I am a Eadical.”
“ It is an odious and an impious principle,” said
Mrs. Mallory, with cold and bitter anger in her
voice, “ and it is a principle to which I will never
give any countenance.”
The shock had been not a small one of finding
that Sebastian called himself by the name she
hated, as the formula of the sum of the opinions
of Thanshope—Eadical. But a yet greater shook
was that of finding, that though ho seemed so soft
and pliable, spoke so indifferently, smiled so
languidly, yet she could no more bend him, nor
apparently impress him, than she could stem the
incoming tide of the ocean.
Sebastian had risen, and was standing by the
mantlepiece. Mrs. Mallory glanced at him once
sideways, and caught his eye. That was annoying
in itself : it vexed and angered her because he was
smiling.
“ I am sorry you don’t like it, mother,” he said
quite pleasantly and cheerfully, but not in the
least apologetically; “ and yet, do you know
considering the letters you have had from me, and
my perfect frankness as to the society I have most
sought and enjoyed, I think you might have been
prepared for it, even if I never explicitly stated
my convictions.”
This was also true. He had a moat annoyino-
way of being in the right.
“Convictions? Oh, I dislike that talk about
convictions. When people want to annoy their
best friends, they call their conduct the result of
convictions.”
“ The impertinence of circumstances is certainly
very great sometimes,” assented Sebastian, lean-
ing against the mantlepiece, and she, as she tapped
her foot impatiently upon the floor, would hardly
have been flattered to find that be was thinking :
‘ I must let her rail against it until it begins to
be tiresome—perhaps she may see the wisdom of
stopping before then. I suppose one must make
allowances for the disappointment of a woman
whoso prejudices (or convictions?) have been
offended: but it would be wasting words to reason
with her about it, and soon, I suppose, she will
learn to accept the circumstance and make the
best of it.”
He had no wish or intention of being disrespect-
ful. Simply, ho had “ beaten his music out ” with
more difficulty than any one knew, save himself,
and was mildly surprised to find that the resulting
harmony, which sounded not ill in his own ears,
should cause his mother such shuddering, should
fall so discordantly upon her perceptions. Ho had
no idea of interrupting the flow of that harmony
than he had of sharing his ample estate with aU
the paupers in Thanshope.
Fortunately, at this juncture, Hugo came into
the room, his odd, original young face looking still
more peculiar in contrast with his careful evening
dress, and before many words had been exchanged
“ Miss Spencely ” was announced.
Sebastian turned, with the story of Frederick
Spencely and his already conceived contempt for
him strong in his mind, to confront Frederick
Sponcely’s sister. His glance softened as it fell
upon the girl advancing towards his mother.
Had ho wandered through all the cities of
Europe and seen their lovely women, in order to
come home and find in a provincial manufacturing
town a daughter of the people more beautiful than
any of them ?
“Helena, my love, let me introduce my son,
who has arrived sooner than I expected. Sebas-
tian, Miss Spencoley.”
A profound bow on his part, and a rather care-
less, not very sophisticated . inclination of her
beautiful head on hers, was the result of these
phrases of politeness.
“My son’s friend,Mr. vonßirkonau,” was then
introduced, and received the same notice exactly,
a notice graceful and even dignified, because she
could not help all her movements being graceful
and dignified.
“Like my daughter,” Mrs. Mallory had said,
and as she spoke to Helena Spenceley her voice
assuredly took a tender accent; she glanced over
the young lady’s costly dress and smoothed down
a lacej ruffle with the affectionate familiarity of a
g.very intimate friend or much-loved rela-
gtive. ■ “
il Miss Spenceley remained standing on
jfethe hearthrug, talking to Mrs. Mallory—
a lovely, noble figure, tall, slim, and
shapely, with the elasticity of perfect health
in every lino.
“Splendid?” said Sebastian, in his own
mind; and splendid expressed her appear-
ance and her character both. From her
groat dark, soft eyes, her dusky hair, in its
delicate unruly little rings and tendrils,
her ripe red lips, set in a delicious curve of
mirth, frankness, and wilfulness, down to
her rich dress and sparkling rings, she was
all splendid, without being in the least
vulgar.
“ uear child, what a long time it is since
I saw you!” said Mrs. Mallory.
‘‘Yes. I have been busy. How nice
this fire is, Mrs. Mallory. Ido believe we
have not had one at our house yet. Per-
haps it is lighted on your behalf?” she
added, turning to Sebastian with a some-
what malicious smile.
“Mine? Not so far as I am aware.
What makes you think so ?”
“You have been living in warm coun-
tries lately, and Thanshope is not a warm,
place, but one of those towns where we
have to use a lot of coals to makeup for the
want of sunshine !”
“Yea, indeed!” said Mrs. Mallory
shivering.
“ I have not had time to miss the sun-
shine, or to enjoy it if there had been any,
since I came,” said Sebastian, his glance
dwelling almost involuntarily upon her as
she stood there, her eyes flashing back the
firelight, and looking herself (he thought)
like some bright, living flame, or some tro-
pical flower.
He could not understand her. There
was nothing vulgar about her; her voice
was pleasant and, though distinctly north-
ern in its clear accent, was not in the least
uneducated in its pronunciation of words;
she had ease, grace, self-possession of car-
riage; apparently she was devoid alto-
gether of self-consciousness; all of which
things were surely signs of good breeding ;
and yet she was not in the least like the
many well-bred girls whom he had met in
society up and down the world—in Paris
Vienna, Berlin, and other places. He
wondered what she could talk about, and
whether she talked well.
was announced, and he led her
into the dining-room. Hugo von Birkenau
was talking with much animation to Mrs.
Mallory, as was his wont, though she did
not appear to find him a very interesting
companion.
Helena Spenceley, suddenly turning to
Sebastian, said:
“ I know quite well where you have been.
I have followed your course with i
greatest interest. Mrs. Mallory used
always to tell me where you went, and sometimes
read mo bits of your letters.”
“ Did she P I wish I had known.”
“Do yon ? Why P ” she asked.
She look at him with a certain bright attontive-
eness, and waited with evident interest for his
answer.
Certainly she was not like other girls. Another
girl would have known directly that he meant a
kind of vague compliment by his aimless phrase - r
but she said “ Why ? ”
(to be continued)
THE COUNTRY-KILLED MEAT MART, GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY’S OFFICES.


BRIEF MENTION.
Goodlet is a good piper.
j)e mortuis nil nisi bonum.
Hades’ Flame. —Don Juan.
A colliery union.—Ooaf-ition.
Tann’s “ Reliance” is the boss safe.
“ Pax Vobis-marck !” says the Pope.
More wedding “ Bells” on Saturday.
The insurance business is looking up.
penniless people shouldn’t go to Temora.
Coffee Palace No. 2 is extensively Hughsed.
<• Bury the hatchet,” now say the Berryites.
A lineal descendant of old King Cole—Mitchell.
It’s all “ blow” about Milner Stephen’s cures.
Harry M'Quade, M.L.A., is a twenty-two stun-
ner. _ , , ,
Petersham railway platform disgraces civilisa-
tion.
“Scenes that are brighest.”—The Vic.’s on
fire.
They like the gospel scalding hot in Bourke-
street.
Walker, known as the “ lath,” was a losing
pedestrian.
On wet Sundays they use the Domain cowsheds
as churches.
Windsor has now a corporation to represent it
in Parliament.
E. B. Wallace and G. A. Lloyd are sure cards
f»r Newcastle.
The three rogues on the Balmain road have
parted company.
There will be an influx of respectability in the
new Parliament,
Lucky civil servant who knows the teller at a
lank. ’Nuf said.
Cremate your mother-in-law and then use her
for tooth-powder.
“ Dutchy ” was one of the best characters at
the Mercantile Ball.
Parramatta gas is worth ten times as much as
the Sydney imitation.
The E. News is an aristocratic journal. It is
.often presented at Court.
In regard to tram-rail rolling the Sydney iron-
■worker says Bend-em-eer.
“ The Four Magazines” is an answer to Havi-
land’s new Sixteen Puzzle.
“ Lying is easier than standing”—so the parson
rtho abuses our paper says.
Lloyd is the new Offl. Ass.—Which was it, G.
A. or the Crown law offices ?
Jim Eainford won’t vote for a fire superintendent
with “ his heart bown down.”
A fiery-whiskered cleric is conspicuously atten-
tive to a No. 2 Palace waitress.
Hudson Brothers employ more artizans than
uuy other firm in the colonies.
The bunch for East Sydney.—Dowie, Cover,
Frank Warden and Garden Honey.
“ The ruling passion strong in—life.” Soudry’s
wish for “ properly-cooked" food.
A revision of the Commission of the Peace list
is imminent. Look out, ye unpaid !
We are informed there is a bandy-legged officer
in the 2nd Regiment. This won’t do.
The present Prothonotary won’t let any of his
-officers sign their own death-warrants.
In view of the outlay at the Supreme Court the
Evbxing Lth# proposes retrenchment.
John Hordern intends giving a picnic to the
Fire Brigade which saved his property.
The general election will take place the last
week in October or the first in November.
Good display at the wedding at St. Mark’s. |
Only wanted limelights and the orchestra.
They request the Greta blacksmith, by adver-
tisement, to send in his list of prices for anuour.
David Buchanan and G. R. M‘Lean are now at
“ daggers drawn." They’ve quarrelled over Berry.
Says Melbourne Punch —“ Coalition.—Will
you walk into my parlour said the spider to the fly ?”
Two posts and a placard are the first instal-
ments erected for the new Petersham railway station.
We hear that a certain chemist is about to
start a brewery. Has he a superabundance of glucose ?
The anouymous-letter-and-respectable-woman-
viliflcation-nuisonce is iust now the trouble at Bombala.
The Discharged Prisoners’ Aid Society is in
want of funds. This is a pity, for its work is a noble
one.
That envious wall again. Like Pyramus and
Thisbe two Dubbo storekeepers would be happy but for
:a wall.
Seal-skin waistcoats are now the “ fad ” among
the bank officials. Red silk handkerchiefs are to
follow.
“ Right you are, says Moses,” hummed a cer-
tain M.L.A in the lobby of the theatre. He’d seen
“ Betsy.”
An indignation meeting is on the tapis to con-
sider the treatment of consumers by the Gas
Company.
They do say that at least one member of the
present Ministry was chosen on account of his
ductility.
Woollahra, under Mayor Trickett, was the first
suburban muuicipalit y to paint the names of streets on
the lamps.
When will our countrymen accept a defeat
without calling it a “massacre by overwhelming
numbers ?’*
The difficulty of arresting G. R. Dibbs until he
consented to be arrested is apparent to all who value
their hides.
It must have been a very sarcastic man who
■selected Mr. Hol-borrow as chairman of the banquet to
ir Henry.
Another link gone. The rattles of the Vic-
torian police have been called in, their use having been
.^continued.
Strange the number of insurance agents one
Immped against on Monday week between the Post
Office and Cole’s.
Field glasses are in demand to while away the
time waiting at the Petersham station, deciphering the
newly-erected labels.
More seats are badly wanted in the Botanical
Gardens in summer, and it is advisable to have them
got ready in advance.
Milner Stephen is 70. and says he has prayed all
his life tor the gift to heal. You see what a man gets
by persistent asking.
A Lilliputian English clergyman tries to frighten
bis flock to heaven by vivid pictures of the flames and
torments. Rather warm.
At Temora the majority of the amateur gold
hunters have bread and tea, as diet, on week days, but
tea and bread on Sundays.
It is generally considered that the Opera House
tragedy was a most disa-f/ccer-ble event, but the details
are not So(u)dry for all that.
The banks can’t compel anyone to stamp a
cheque. Clients should object to their accounts being
charged with such impositions.
A corporation officer has to stand nearly as
much filthy abuse as a Civil servant, and, [as a rule,
from a similar grade of intellects.
After a long engagement Miss Fitzsmith was
married to a country storekeeper. She says, “ Yase,
he’s hin-a-long coming to a decision.”
A lady and two children travelling from Parra-
matta to Newtown pay 3s. 9d., and from Newtown to
Parramatta 2s. 3d. Railway arithmetic.
No bonnets in the Horseshoe at the Royal.
Rather rough, though, of the Judge’s deputy to ask a
certain lady to remove her fashionable cap.
Mr. E. A. Proctor, says the Ballarat Cou-
rier, has discovered a gold-mine in .the sun, which is
yielding him a net profit of between 80oz. and 90oz a
week.
Lewis Scott says that if all the dramatic authors
Australia has, or ever had, were boiled down into one
man poor Walter Cooper would have “ written him
blind.”
A Queanbeyan gentleman the other day paid a
visit and a guinea to the healer. He found it “nogo ”
—for anything hut the travelling expenses and the
guinea. . -
A certain M.P. and ex-Minister from an adjoin-
ing colony was recently on a visit to Sydney. Not
being known, he was followed about a good deal by the
detectives.
It is not true that Captain Standish put on a
flannel nightcap and retired to his bed with influenza
when ordered hy Mr. Ramsay to go up to Benalla and
see after the Kellys. The gallant captain always wears
cotton nightcaps.
A traveller wants to know what is the advantage
of a sleeping car—for which he has to pay Ids. extra—
when he is awoke hy a guard asking for his * sleeping
ear” ticket?
Few spectacles are so imposing as that of a
grammar-school hoy with his first cane. It (that sto
say the cane) always looks like the first one that has
been in the family.
Bond, of the InverellTim.es, strolling home
in the dark the other night, ran against the hind-
quarters of a dray horse. He says that if his brains had
been knocked out it would have been a fearful calamity.
He “should then have had to take to writing ‘brevities
like the editor of the Ixvesell Herald.”
A resident on the suburban line says there are
more forms and declarations to be gone through in
obtaining a monthly ticket than it is worth.
Epitaph for David—
In life he lived for lies without a peer,
And now that life is done he’s lying here.
The Invebell Times asserts that the name of
local Agricultural Society should be changed to the
‘ Exclusive Aristocratieal Counter Flunkey Association.’
The “ Vag.” is letting his hair grow ready for
his Wollomlii candidature. He’d better have it cut
and get shaved. Eggs are such nasty things to wash
out.
A Cafcoar man is in the habit of going into the
local newspaper office, reading the manuscript copy
during the editor's absence, and threatening to tack
the devil.
Wolves in foxes’ clothing— that’s to say, card-
sharpers disguised as commercial travellers have
visited Gnndagai, and been chased out of town hy the
local paper.
The author of the article in Saturday’s Tele-
graph on rhe “Gift of healing,” was, when he wrote
the second paragraph therein, evidently thinking of
King David.
A bellman rounded up thirty persons to attend
the Anti-Chinese meeting at Newtown the other night-
Each speaker wasted au hour iu vapourings. The
audience disappeared as soon as it was intimated that
there would be a collection.
Not for Jo. “ Jonah” was performed at the
Congregational schoolhouse, Surry Hills, on Thursday.
No whale appeared. Too many wails have been raised
in that room already.
The South Australians expect next summer to
he the hottest they have ever experienced. Mr. Proc-
tor, the astronomer, has brought the sun to their
hearths and homes.
Last week’s Melbourne Punch represents
Sir John O’ShauasHy mounted on a donkey, whose tail
the Aon holds. The gallant knight is trying to urge
his steed, which is branded “lb votes,’ over the Edu-
cation Act, represented by a roll of manuscript, at
which, however, the donkey “jibs.”
I A schoolmaster at Belfast (Vic.) the other day
culled the Kellys “ vagabonds,” whereupon two larri-
kins asserted that they were “gentlemen," and as-
saulted him. Fined 40s.
The four genteel larrikins who played marbles
in the Domain last Sunday morning, considering their
apparent intellectual gifts, might have turned
their time to better account.
Society isn’t half so proud of a criminal who
steals because is his natural method of getting
what he wants, as it would be of one driven into steal-
ing against his better instincts.
An influential elector of Northumberland, it is
rumoured, culled at Ninny's hotel in the middle of the
night, to give that legislator an important piece Of
advice. It was to hold his tongue.
Mr. O’Connor, who has medical charge of 700
men or thereabouts, at Darlinghurst, says he treats the
gaol people in exactly the same style as that adopted
by him in regard to his private patients !
Says the Pacific Weekly ; —“ Mr. Greer, it
seems, hail too good reasons for doubting his wife s
fidelity, and it is not easy to think that he was not
justified in shooting her under the circumstances.”
At the Newtown Chinese meeting one of the
speakers urged that the Government should be censured
for not scuttling the Java as soon as it was known that
she had entered the harbour with small-pox aboard.
Oxford-street is a vale of tears. They are tear-
ing up the sidewalks aud someone else is tearing up the
main road. But really this street now looks as if a
third-rate active volcano hud taken lodgings therein.
Saturday’s Hekka announces, at the commence-
ment of its smull-pica leader, that on Thursday night
“ the volunteer firemen took a step in the right
direction.” The name of the public-house is not men-
tioned.
A certain weekly used up old wood-cuts to illus-
trate the Temora rash. If we live long enough we no
doubt will sec the veterans once again. They’ve already
illustrated Lambing Flat, Gympie, Tambaroora, and
Temora.
The editor of the Auckland Catholic organ at-
tributes to the founder of the "New York Herald” a
poem written on the late Mr. Samuel Bennett, of the
T. and C. Journal, by the Australian poet, Henry
Kendall.
The President of the School of Arts has con-
sented to accede to the wishes of those who objected
to the Sunday opening meeting being held on a Satur-
day night. It will probably be held on Tuesady next,
10th instant.
Mr. Jack Want —we’d give him his proper name
it we thought people would identify him with it—
says that “in any learned counsel’s address you’ll
always find the colour of the almighty dollar sticking
out somewhere."
“ Gipsy” writes in the Town and Country :
“ One of the marriages which, iu a previous letter, 1
mentioned us ou the .in pis, was celebrated this week.”
We sincerely trust the newly-wedded pair will live quite
tapis-ly together.
The “ boss ” of one of the city police courts the
other morning asked one of the clerks what mode him
late. The ingenious rejoinder was that the train had
run into the station, which reply caused enquiries
as to how many were injured.
Clementina rejected him. Clemy’s father drank.
lie met him drunk. A barrow was requisitioned. The
old one was in. Bolling home. The double knock. A fear-
ful shock. The fair one was janitor. The false one
fled. Fact! Locality, Woolloomooloo.
The Trades and Labour Council arc arranging
for the issue of a penny weekly thunderer. The first
issue will be 10,000, but it is uot known wbnt the hun-
dredth issue will consist of. The council has no faith in
the commercial morality of the dailies.
The following original advertisement appears in
a N.Z. paper :—“Marriage.—Butler—Keid.—On May
atth, at St. Peter’s Church, Edwin Butler, bullock-
driver, of Upper Hutt, to Alice Emily Held, of Wades,
town. No cards ; no cakes ; no nothing,”
Says Melbou enk Punch :
A Carlton compositor rushing iu haste
At the recent political fight.
Cried—“ Much of a muchness —a letter displace
And the Bcery-ite too hod been Berryite!"
The other day the Telegraph said that one
man was dead and another insolvent. It now appears
that in the former case it was a horse, not a man, that
died; and that iu the latter the man instead of be-
coming insolvent himself, mode somebody else bankrupt.
Mr. Proctor says that the whole globe may be
dissolved at some period within less than 17 years.
Some of the New Zealand people are troubling them-
selves now about those thirty years' bonds, which, ac-
cording to the astronomer, may after all never be
paid up.
Scene-. A Sydney newsagent’s shop. Enters a
ve.ry handsome, well - dressed woman. DU elle:
“Please give me a copy of the Bathurst .” Re-
marks a bystander, so tie voce: “ But that she asked for
that particular paper, I’d have thought she was an
actress.” Pact.
To whom are we indebted for our peripatetic
baby-farms and orgau accompaniments ? It's just
about time that the police interfered with this rapidly-
growing trade aud prevented unfortunate little children
from being brought up as lazzaroni.
They do a very “ largo trade ” in black draughts
and cough mixtures at Darlinghurst. From certain evi-
douce given in a certain case tlie other day it would
appear that patients whose cases should be treated by
cooks and not by doctors sometimes get into the
hospital.
The telegraphic columns of Monday’s Noose
contain the following brilliant grammatical effort from
their Melbourne correspondent:—“ The inquest on Mr.
Greer’s remains were only formal. Neither Soudry or
Mrs. Greer were examined,” etc. Only three bulls in
sixteen words.
“ Professor ” Guscott, the herbalist man, is on
the warpath iu N.Z. now. His advertisement in a
Christchurch paper consists of a big woodcut represent-
ing him riding Death in the shape of the skeleton of a
Metgatherium - The Professor and the Megatherium
are a well-matched pair.
About ten days since a certain prominent
Government official fell sick and took to his bed. When
the fact became known several of his subordinates
might have been seen strutting about the office, each
with a freshly-written application for “ promotion ”
sticking out of his pocket.
Boys will smoke notwithstanding Dr. Wazir
Beg. The other day a certain Professor detected to-
bocco in his class though combined with patchouli. He
only cougratulated them on possessing some “scents”
at any rate, hut was rather surprised when a small boy
replied “ Instinct, sir, I think."
Some former Victorian residents are so much
infatuated with our harbour and surroundings that
they take morning walks round to Lady Macquarie’s
chair. The other morning they came across a fellow-
couutrymau with his throat cut. When the police
arrived the unfortunate man had no money in his
pockets. *
A quondam author (?) has invested in a “ shixty
per shout.” concern. Shade of Isaiah! He has his Mel-
bourne prototype, though, in Mr. Newton Goodrich,
who wrote "Married iu Black,” and other poems, and
now mns ft pawnshop in Welliugtou-street, Colling-
wood. We are glad to notice that literary men ore at
last becoming w ise.
What a difference a comma makes in Oooma.
Says the Cooma Exx-ress “ The Melbourne Age
says the Sydney Bulletin, is the champion liar of
Australasia, but (Jooma can boast of a paper that bas
earned for itself the name of champion liar of the
world.” Put the comma in the right place—after Age
—ye Cooma editor.
Queanheyau editors are fighting aud using vary
had language, dog Latin and worse grammar. One
scribe “ parallel columns " tbe other, and accuses him
of plagiarism. He says, further, that the opposition
man’s advertisement ought to be amended thus:—-
“ Printing and all opposition editors neatly executed,
&c. Of course it’s of no consequence that the literary
production in dispute—which of course is of a poetic
character, and refers to plastered kisses ox to
the cold marble brow of someone cite—was in the first
MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL OF THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
“THE PEOPLE OF NEW SOUTH WALES” WHO CONGRATULATED GRAHAM BERRY.


J N T
ERNATIONAL EX
SYDNEY, 1879 — 80.
ALDEKSON and SONS’ AWARDS.
HIBITION
Business Announcements
HE PACIFIC WEEKLY.
No. XIII.
NOW READY.
THE PACIFIC WEEKLY
FOR THIS WEEK CONTAINS:
NOTES OF THE WEEK:
Short and Pithy Paragraphs on Current Events.
TOPICS OF THE DAY:
Sir Henry Parkes at Ashfleld—The Last Phase of the-
Afghan Difficulty—Mr. Berry's Cabinet—Mr.
Gladstone and Freedom of Debate —Can Pauper-
ism be Abolished? —Wasted Words—Cattle in.
Australia.
CLUB GOSSIP (Bt Cain).
COLONIAL CELEBRITY,
No. XIII.
Archbishop Vaughan.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE POLITY OF ORIENTAL STATES.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR.
LITERATURE AND ART :
CHARLES DICKENS' PINAFORE COMPANY.
THE VICTORIAN REVIEW.
“ UNDER THE CHANGING SKY”
Ac., Ac., Ac. Ac., Ac.
PRICE 6d.
To be had of all Booksellers and Newsagents, and at
the Office,
No. 2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LUCAS’ PULVEEE NATUEALA
(REGISTERED),
The Safest Cure that can be used for all Diseases of the
Eyes, guaranteed to be free from all poisonous qualities.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they con
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by one
packet of Lucas’ Pnlvere Natnrala, 3a. 6d. per packet?
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers. Wholesale at—
TAYLER and CO’S.,
175 PITT STREET.
C WOODFORD AND C 0.,
• (From Lonkon),
SANITARY AND PRACTICAL PLUMBERS,
63 PITT-ST., SYDNEY (Corner of Queen's Place).
Baths and Water-closets fitted on the most approved
principle. Galvanized Iron Workers. Licensed Water
and Gas litters.
P
ITT, SON, AND BADGEET,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SYDNEY.
N.B.—AllJFat Stock received and classed carefully.
Large Store Stock connection.
Proceeds and Account Sales punctuality rendered.
PITT, SON, and BADGERY.
Q
5
J
AMES PEMELL AND
VICTORIA FLOUR MILLS,
sussex-street,
NEAR THE HAT MARKET.
CO.,
OFFICES AND STORES :
797 GEORGE-STREET SOUTH. SYDNEY
OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY STATION,
Silk-dressed, Superfine, Fine, and Good Seconds
FLOUR, Wheat Meal, Maize Meal, Bran, Pollard,
Cow Meal, Whole and Cracked Com, Barley, Oats,
Peas, Straw, Oaten and Lucerne Hay and Chaff,
Potatoes, Ac.
JH U N T
• (Late Trickett’s)
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL.
PITT AND KING STREETS.
Mr. HUNT has much pleasure in informing his
friends and the public generally that he
HAS TAKEN THE A BOVE HOTEL,
and trusts that with strict attention to business he will
meet with a generous support.
Mr. HUNT begs to state, for the satisfaction of his
customers, that nothing but the
PUREST DRINKS
shall be supplied over his counter.
SINGLE BOTTLE DEPARTMENT.
Yellow-seal Geneva, -is per bottle
Juniper Tree Gin, 4s per bottle
Key brand Gin, 3s 6d per bottle
Flasks of Gin, Is 6d per bottle
Wolfe's Schnapps, 3s 9d and 2s per bottle
Hennessy’s ••• Pale or Dark Brandy 6s per bottle
„ • Battle Axe, 5a per bottle
Roe and Co.'s Old Irish Whisky, 5s per botlle
Kinahan’s L.L. ditto, 4a per bottle
Royal Blend Scotch, 4s per bottle
Thistle Blend ditto, 4s per bottle
Walker’s (Kilmarnock) ditto, 4s per bottle
Rob Roy, ditto, 4s per bottle
Lome, ditto, 4s per bottle
Flasks ditto, 2s Gd per bottle
Sirß. Burnett’s Old Tom, 3s 6d per bottle
Lowndes’ West India Rum, 6a per quart
~ „ „ 5a per quart
~ ~ ~ 4a per quart
Jamaica Rum, Red Heart, 5s per bottle
Port and Sherry Wines, from 3s per bottle, Ac., Ac*
AITKEN’S ENGLISH ALE, ON DRAUGHT, IN THE
BAR.
LUNCHEON FREE,
at the counter.
J. HUNT
(Late Trickett’s)
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL,
PITT and KING STREE’IS.
Government Advertisement
Deportment of Mines,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1889.
REWARD FOR THE DISCOVERY OF NEW GOLD
FIELDS.
NOTICE ia hereby given that the sums under-
mentioned will be paid os rewards for discovering
and reporting the discovery of New Gold Fields: — _
To any person who shall first discover, and within a
period which shill be deemed to be by the Minister for
Mines a reasonable time after such discovery, make
known to the said Minister the position of a Now Gold
Field, beinv distant not less than ten miles from the
nearest gold workings, the sum of £500; Provided that
within six months after the date of discovery, not fever
than three hundred miners shall be employed in goW-
mining upon such New Gold Field.
And in the event of such New Gold Field at the
expiration of twelve months from the date of’discovery,
providing apparently permanent employment in gohi-
raining for not less than five hundred miners, the person
discovering and reporting such Gold Field as aforesaid,
shall be entitled to claim a further sum of £5OO.
The Minister shall be the sole judge as to any matter
in dispute in regard to an application for reward; ana
in the event of a dispute arising as to the P er3 °
entitled to claim the reward, the Minister shall decide
which, if any, is so entitled.
E. A. BAKER, „
Minister for Mines,
LEATHERS—
Sole Special 1st Prize
Kip, Calf, Tweed, &c Ditto
Harness, Strap, and Bag Ditto
Mill-belt, Hose, and Lacing Ditto
Splits, Levants, &c Ditto
Patent Enamel and Japanned Ditto
Patent Fancy Coloured Morocco
Hides . Ditto
Patent Fancy Coloured Bridle Mid-
dlings Ditto
Morocco Roans, Levant, and Book... Ditto
Paris, 1878-9—Leathers Silver Medal
Philadelphia, 1876—Leathers Bronze ditto
MAN U FAUXU KrJft —
Booty and Shoes (factory versus seat... 2nd Poize
Harness, Collars, &c Special 1st
Prize
Saddles, Bridles, and Strapping Ditto
Portmanteaus and Bag (leather versus
tin) * 2nd Prize
Mill Belts, double and single, Ameri-
can style Ditto
Hose, Fire, and Suction Ditto
1851 —80—Leathers. —-Bronze and Silver Medals at Lon-
don, Paris, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
101 YOEK-STREET, SYDNEY, and MARY-STREET, BRISBANE.
Amusements
T
Leasee ...
HEA T E E
EOY A L
Mr. Samuel Lazar
TWENTIETH WEEK and CONTINUED
SUCCESS
of
THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
THIS EVENING-, and until further notice,
The perlormance will commence at 8 o’clock with
Maddison Morton’s screaming Fare,
BETSY BAKER.'
To be followed by
a new Comedy, in three acts, adapted from the French
of M.M. Hennequin and Najac, authors of the “Pink
Dominos,” entitled
BETSY,
By F. C. Burnaud.
Mr. Alexander Birkett Mr. Edmund W. Marshall
Mr. Adolphus Birkett Mr. Arthur Garner
Captain Redmond M‘Manus Mr. G. S. Titberadge
Richard Talbot Mr. Frank Cates
Mr. Samuel Dawson Mr. Frederick Marshall
Mrs. Birkett Mrs. Marion Stammers
Mrs. M’Mauus Mrs. George Gordon
Madame Polenta Miss Annie Taylor
Nellie Bassett Miss Alma Stanton
Grace Peyton Miss Nellie Playfair
Betsy Miss Blanche Stammers
Stage Manager ... Mr, Frederick Marshall.
Doors open at 7.15.
Overture at 8.
Prices Of Admission.—Dress Circle, sa; Stalls,
3s ; Family Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Bex office at Elvy and Co.’s, Qeorgo-street,
where seats can be secured six days in advance.
AETHUE GAENEE, Manager.
Q
U E E N’ S
THEA T E E
Lessee, M. Hegarty. Business Manager, Liddy.
UNPARALLELLED SUCCESS.
APPLAUSE UNBOUNDED.
Greet every Act and Scene of this Great Drama,
Sensational Interest.
TO-NIGHT,
And until further netice, will be repeated this
MOST SUCCESSFUL DRAMA OF MODERN TIMES,
( POMP ~)
POMP POMP POMP
(, POMP )
Or, BEFORE AND AFTER THE WAR.
Full Cast of Characters by R. B. Lewis’
GEORGIA JUBILEE SINGERS,
and the Queen’s Dramatic Company.
The Six Jolly Coons.
The Broadway Squad.
The Steamer Explosion.
Plantation Pastimes.
Beautiful Scenery. Startling and Wonderful
Mechanical Effects.
Admission—Dress Circle, 3s. Stalls, 2s. Pit, la.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.
O 1
Lessees
E R
H
OUSE.
Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and Qreville.
POSITIVELY LAST FOUR NIGHT OP THE
SEASON.
LAST NIGHTS OP
ME. J. E. GEEVILLE
THURSDAY, August sth,
MISS KATE FOLEV’S FAREWELL BENEFIT.
The charming Comedy, in 2 Acts,
CHECKMATE!
Sam Winkle Mr. Qreville.
Martha Bunn Miss Kate Foley.
And the favourite Burlesque,
LA G A Z Z A
LADEA!
FRIDAY, 6th August,
FASHIONABLE NIGHT.
SATURDAY. 7th August,
ME. GEEVILLE’S FAEEWELL BENEFIT.
NICHOLAS NICKLEBY!
And the New BURLESQUE.
MONDAY, 9ih August,
MR. DODGE’S BENEFIT, the Acting Manager.
DEMTNIQUE, THE DESERTER,
INTERLUDE,
and
NICHOLAS NICKLEBY.
POSITIVELY LAST NIGHT OF THE SEASON.
Admission —Dress Circle, 35.; Stalls, 25.; Pit, Is.
Box plan at Nicholson and Ascherberg's.
M
ASONIC HALL,
Y OEK-STEEET.
WEDNESDAY EVENING, August 11, 1880.
“ HELL AND THE DEVIL,"
a descriptive Lecture by
the Rev. ALEXANDER B. DAVIS,
on behalf of the
JEWISH HOME ERECTION FUND.
Front Seats, 4s. Balcony and back seats. 2s 6d.
Tickets may be had at Moss’ Music Warehouse, Hun-
ter-street ; Myers and Solomon, Qeorge-street; Myers
and Cantor, Pitt-street; M. Goulston, 58, Market-
street; of Mr. G. L. Goodman, and the Lecturer,
Macleay-street.
E
GYPTIAN HALL,
406QEORGE-STREET. NEAR KING-STREET.
Engagement and Great Success of
JOHNNY COWAN and MAT RILEY,
assisted by the
GREAT VARIETY TROUPE of 13 Star Artistes.
“THE ELECTRIC BOY.”
Scenes of the Kelly Gang Outrages.
A Suit of Ned Kelly’s Clothes.
Wonderful Freak of Nature,
A Man with Six Perfect Fingers on each Hand and Six
Toes on each Foot.
And many other Novelties.
Open from 10 a.m. until 10 p.m.
Admission —6d.
The kelly gang.
To be seen in the
WAXWORKS EXHIBITION
Life-size Figures of EDWARD KELLY, DANIEL
KELLY, STEPHEN HART and BYRNE.
Also, numerous other Figures.
Now open, opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-street
Admission, Is ; children, half-price.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Amusements
The most select picnic of the
SEASON.
OUR BOYS' CRICKET CLUB.
SECOND ANNUAL EXCURSION TO FERN BAY,
On SATURDAY, 14th August.
DANCING, CRICKET, FOOTBALL, &o.
The popular ALBION BAND engaged.
Steamers from foot of King-street 1.30, 2.30, and 3 p.m.
Refreshments on the Ground.
Single Tickets, Is. 6d. Double Tickets, 2s. 6d.
W. MOYES, Hon. Secretary.
Great intercolonial handicap
PIGEON CONTEST.
OPEN TO ALL COMERS.
To be shot at Sydney on the days between the Sydney
Race Spring Meeting i WEDNESDAY and FRI-
DAY, September 8 and 10, 1880.
A Sweepstake of 5 sovs. each, with Silver Cup, valued at
20 guineas, added.
Nominations, 1 sov , to be addressed to the Promoter on
or before September 1.
Acceptances, with 5 sovs., to be in the hands of the
Promoter on or before September 7.
Twelve-bore gun, 100 yards boundary—ll birds.
Handicap Range—2l to 30 yards—will appear in the
fjYDNKY Morning H kbaud, the Sydney Daily Telegraph
and Town and Country Journal, on Saturday, Septem-
ber 4.
Prizes —Ist, Cup and 40 per cent.; 2nd. 20 per cent ; 3rd
10 per cent.; 4th, 5 per cent.; sth, 5 per cent.; 6th, 5 per
cent.
The Committee have determined only to use one trap,
and that the numbers, corresponding with each shooter,
shall be placed in a bag and drawn by the umpire after
each bird is trapped, and he (the umpire) will then declare
the shooter.
GEORGE ADAM*, Promoter.
• TattersalTs, Sydney.
Grand intercolonial pigeon
SB OOTING CONTEST, at SYDNEY, Ist and 2nd
SEPTEMBER, 1880 (between the Hawkesbury and Metro-
politan Spring Race Meeting). Open to all comers
A Sweepstake of 10 sovs. each, with Gold Cup, valued at
30 guineas, added. Nominations 2 sovs (part of entrance),
to be in the hands of Mr George Adams, Tattersall’s
Hotel, Sydney, on TUESDAY, August 24; balance of
sweep, 8 sovs, to bo made good at Tattersall’s, -ydney,
before 4 p.m on the day previous to the match. 13 Birds
each,23 yards rise, UK) yards boundary, 12-bore gun, IJoz.
shot. Prizes— I The Gold Cup and 50 per cent, of sweep
first prize; 20 per cent, for second; 10 per cent, third, and
5 per cent, fourth.
Any person discovered using a gun with a bore exceed-
ing No 12, or cartridges coi.taining more than li oz. of
shot, will bo at once disqualified. Any shooter may, on
payment of 1 sov., request the umpire to examine any
other shooter’s gun or cartridges when at the scratch, such
deposit forfeited if gun and charge found correct. One
trap only will be used, and a number drawn by the umpire
for the order of shooting after each bird is trapped.
Each shooter must have a report (according to the Gun
Club Rules), and only one discharge allowed. Any person
scouting within the groudnwili be fined 2 sovs. Shooting
to commence each day at 11 a.m sharp.
N B —The match will bo shot on a ground which will be
under the supervision of stewards, who shall have full
control over keeping order on the ground, and upon
whose authority any person refusing to comply with the
rules laid down for their guidance may be removed. As
it is expected there will be from 50 to 70 competitors, lots
will be drawn for squads consisting of 10 shooters each.
Notice will be given to each shooter as to squads, and the
time appointed for each squad to be on the ground.
Any shooter failing to join his squad at the appointed
time will be disqualifl-d.
Tickets admitting shooters to the ground will be issued
at Tattersall’s, at 10 o’clock On each day of shooting.
Committkr and Ground Stkwarus ; J. Hamilton, P. Can-
non, George Curtis. W. Dargon, W. Forrester,'Henry
Payton.
Umpires : C O. Skarratt, William Gannon.
Referee : A. Haroourt.
All communications addressed to Mr. George Adams,
Tattersall’s, Sydney, or Mr. Henry Payton, Royal Hotel,
Goulburn, N.8.W., will meet with prompt attention.
GEORGE ADAMS, Proprietor.
Business Announcements
T
HE
CITY TAILORING CO.,
31 MARKET-STREET 31
ARE MAKING TROUSERS TO ORDER
9s. 9d.
JOHN A. CLARK,
LATE 684 GEOKGE-STBEET, SYDNEY.
c
HARLES LEWIS’ NEW IMPROVED
STEAM COOKING APPARATUS,
PATENTED FOE FOURTEEN TEAKS.
This invention has been
devised for the purpose of
providing an economical,
convenient, and efficient
steam cooking apparatus,
especially adapted for
hospitals, asylums, clubs,
hotels,restaurant s, gaols,
ships, and such like.
Also, the newly improved
STEAM CARVING
CHEST, all sizes.
Awarded Prize Medals
Sydney Exhibition 1870-
1876, and International
Exhibition 1880, for Rail-
way Distance and Sema-
phore Signals.
London Iron Works,
173 and 175 Phillip-street,
Sydney,
C LEWIS.
L I
Auction Sales
JIHE GREAT WAYEELEY LAND SALE.
THE GREAT WAVEELEY LAND SALE.
LUGAR BRAE LUGAR BRAE
LUQAR BRAE LUGAR BR&E.
On SATURDAY, the 21st August,
on the Estate, at 3 p.m.
J. W. WATKIN will sell by Auction, on SATUR-
DAY, 21st August (say next Saturday fortnight), on the
That well-known Estate, LUGAR BRAE, com-
prising Lngar Brae House, of which a full
description is subjoined, unless previously
sold by private CONTRACT, and FIFTY-
EIGHT ALLOTMENTS.
LUGAR BRAE HOUSE.—The location is second to
none in Waverley. Sheltered from the Westrly winds,
it commands views of the oceau and up and down the
coastline, which only require to be seen once to be re-
membered for a life-time. The building is massively
built of best stone in 18-inch chiselled parapet masonry;
the roof, slate, joiner’s work, all picked cedar, and the
furniture of best quality. The accommodation consists
of entrance hall, drawing-room 19 feet x 16 feet 6
inches; dining-room, 17 feet 6inches xl6 feet 6 inches;
breakfast-room, 16 feet 6 inches x 16 feet 6 inches;
st veu bedrooms, bathroom, besides two servants’ bed-
rooms, wide verandahs, conservatory, kitchen, 23 feet
x 22 feet, fitted with two cooking ranges, meat stove,
pantry, wine cellar, scullery, laundry, &c.j gasflttings
throughout. The water supply is ample; 4 large
underground tanks, besides numerous iron tanks, and is
so admirably arranged to supply bathrooms, patent
w. 0., kitchen, and laundry, that n<s town house could
be better served in this respect.
Three-stall stable, coachhouse, men’s room, chaff and
hay store, &c., &c.; in fact, all the conveniences and
comfortable surroundings which ingenuity could devise
an 1 money supply.
The grounds, in area (about 2i acres, consist of a
lawn, shrubbery, garden, &c,, which have cost a vast
amount to bring to their present state of perfection,
and which need only be seen to be appreciated.
Section 1 comprises 15 lots, having frontages to
Nelson Bay Road by excellent depths.
Section 2,17 lots, of which 9 have frontages to
Lugar-street and 8 to Nelson Road.
Section 3,10 lots, 4to Nelson Road and 6to Lugar-
street.
Section 4, 16 lots, 6 having frontage to Lugar-
street, 7 to Brae-street, and 3 to Evans-
street.
The contract for constructing the Tramway has been
let, and soon that which has kept Waverley back from
the position which it ought to occupy amongst the
suburbs will be provided, viz., a regular, economical,
and comfortable mode of passenger transit.
Another opportunity for acquiring sites, such as this
subdivision offers, cannot soon occur again,
Comparisons are said to be odious, that is to the
Infeyior, and comparisons are invited and inspection
solicited to tips property.
The Title is first-class Freehold.
H. Heron, Esq.’ Hunter-street, Solicitor to the estate,
will furnish all necessary information.
The Terms —One-quarter Cash; Balance by pro. notes,
bearing 6 per cent, interest, having a currency of 6,
12, and 18 months.
Cards to view the House may be obtained at the
Auctioneer’s office. Temperance Hall, as also
Lithographs of the Subdivision.
Omnibus will leave Temperance Hall SATURDAY
next, at 2.30 p.m., to convey parties desirous of inspect-
ing this property to and from free of expense.
H
OSKING’S ESTATE,
GLENFIELD PARK.
• GREATEST SALE OF THE YEAR.
1600 ACRES in Blocks. HAVING TWO MILES
AND A HALF FRONTAGE TO RAILWAY LINE
and TWO RAILWAY STATIONS thereon ; one hours’
pleasant ride from Sydney; suitable for Homestead for
Sydney business people. 82 ACRES dedicated for
Roads on the Estate, all one chain wide.
Unprecedented oportunity of securing
SEVERAL ACRES OP RAILWAY FRONTAGE
CHEAP.
This well-known Park end Estate will be SOLD- BY
THE ACRE, without any reserve, at the Rooms, on
M< >NDAY, the 30th August, 1880, at 11 a.m.
Plans and particulars can be obtained from
HARDIE and GORMAN,
Auctioneers,
Pitt-street.
ME. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO-
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREA l’-
MEN L’ DAILY, at 107 LI VERPOOL-S I’REET.
Pamphlets gratis.
instance plagiarised by the man who now charges his
rival with having stolen it from him. But then, you
know, ‘‘two blacks don’t make one white," even at
Quean beyau.
A devoted and earnest politician in Biverina
sent this memorandum to a neighbour just after our
last general election :—“ Sir,—Will you oblige Me wich
of the two of the Candidates As got the megority, Bery
or Servis.—Yours, Need I say (remarks
*' .33g es,’’) with which side in politics the anxious
inquirer sympathised ? *
We are tired of “romantic” names. We want,
hy way of a change, a novel of which John Smiih, not
Algernon Montmorenci shall be the hero; in which he
sha'l not marry Violet Pitzeustace, but Margaret
Brown ; aud in which the villain shall he, rot Lothario
de Brahazon, but Henry Muggins. We are prepared
to purchase a good long one of this kind.
The smell at the Circular Quay last Sunday
morning was more than usually pungent. It was even
too much for Sir John, who having breathed the fresh
air of A-hfleld the previous night appeared on this occa-
sion to he as susceptible as ordinary mortals to the
odoriferous influences —for he wisely moved away xmtil
the Watson’s Bay boat was ready to start.
A cook, before starting to attend the service of
n fashionable church at Darling Point on Sunday night,
asked her mistress to oblige her with two shillings in
exchange for a florin, and when asked if she would not
like soma smaller silver, replied with an intona-
tion of scorn that it was only gentlefolks who could
put threepenny-pieces on the offertory plates.
The brave fellow stands alone, bis sword firmly
clenched. A gigantic misty form is advancing. The
mysterious one receives the deadly thrust with a sound.
But it still draws nigh. Closer now and closer. The
horror-stricken warrior flies. He cannot war against
the unearthly! Yes, ’twas in a Western suburb, and
the material resolves itself into—an inebriated iron-
man, his sword-stick, and a cow!
The O’Donovan, sub-editor of the Fkkkman’s
Journal, is responsible for the following:—“ The sword
of the fanatic, the knife of the assassin, and the crnel
headsman’s axe have been again and again mercilessly
wielded to cut asunder that glorious golden chain which
links the Church of the present to the immortal Church
of the past; bnt all in vain—severed in one place, the
links have invariably been reforged and rejoined else-
where.”
Queer coincidence. —When Dr. Pennon, Bishop
of Newcastle, arrived in Melbourne, a thanksgiving
service was held, and the anthems selected were—
" Now we are ambassadors,” and “ How lovely are the
messengers.” Punch remarks that the latter selection
seems a most appropriate reference to the dashing
young man of the Iron Frame, the by no means weather-
beaten Professor, and the ever-hopeful newly married
man Henderson Africauns.


Public Companies
lOMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
i SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1843,
Capital, £500,000. Reserve Fond, £525,00(3.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman ; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy -Chairman ; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; S. W. Levy, Esq.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , Manager.
Auditors :
H. E. A. Allan, Esq.; J. R. Street, Esq.
SoLicrroßS :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want,
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— George-street, Sydney
T A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B,
(laden, Branch Inspector; Q. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector,
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office —39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors : J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G. ;F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; P. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq
Branches in New South Wales.— Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blaney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Cobar,
Coolah, Cooma, Copeland (North), Coraki, Coonamble,
Oootamnndra, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton,
<Hen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton. Gundagoi, Qunnedah,
Banning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murruruudi, Muswellbrook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Nar-
and era, Orange, Porkes, Parramatta, Penrith, Pioton,
Qneanbtyan, Qnirindi, Richmond, Shoalhaven, Single-
tan, Tamworth, Taree, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett,
Wallerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wil-
cannia, Windsor, Wollongong, Woodbnm, Yass, Young.
With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane, Dalby, Maokay,
Maryborough and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bonk of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of South Australis, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania: The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The. Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macoudray and Co.
Valparaiso ; Banco Nacionale de Chile. *
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London and China.
•Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of Indio,
London and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu ; Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the aboveuamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates ; collects dividends on shores
•in public companies, and interest on debentures ; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
HE CITY BANK, SYDNEY.
Paid up Capital, £240,000.
With power to increase to £500,000.
Reserve Fund, £50,000.
Directors:
Hon. JAMES WATSON, Esq., M.L.A., Chairman
ROBERT GRAY, Esq.
Hon. GEORGE THORNTON, Esq., M.L.C.
JOHN ALGER, Esq.
EDWARD WRENCH, Esq.
Auditors :
H. C. D’Ardier, Esq.
Robert Wisdom, Esq., M.L.A.
Manager:
William Neill.
Secretary:
Edmund Rouse.
Accountant:
Thomas T. Orton. ’
Solicitor:
W. W. Billyard, Esq.
Head Office, Pitt Street, Sydney.
City Branches:
'Xing and Sussex Streets. | 99 Oxford Street.
Country Branches:
Young
Bathurst
Kiama
Carcoar
Cootamundra
Agents:
London—The London Joint Stock Bank. *
Scotland— the Commercial Bank of Scotland.
Queensland—The Queensland National Bank.
Victoria—The N ational Bank of Australasia, and' the
City of Melbourne Bank.
Tasmania—The Bank of Van Diemen’s Land.
New Zealand —The Bank of New Zealand.
South Australia—National Bank of Australasia, and
the Commercial Bank of South Australia.
Western Australia —The National Bank of Australasia
India—The Chartered Mercantile Bank of Indio,
London, and China.
China—The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
New York—The Agents of the Bank of California,
Laidlaw and Co.
Nan Francisco—The Bank of California.
Valparaiso— Banco dti Valparaiso.
Batavia—Netherlands-India Commercial Bank.
Venice—S. A. Blumeuthal and Co.
This Bank adopts and transacts all usual banking
business within the colony, and with any of the
places above named.
E B E I B L E ACCIDENTS
Are continually happening, and
FRIGHTFUL MUTILATIONS
and
LOSS OF LIFE
T recorded as the result of accidents in every issue of
wie dailj press.
The best investment to provide against
ACCIDENTS OF ALL KINDS
a Troim is to take out a Policy with the
Australasian accident assurance
ASSOCIATION
(Limited).
CAPITAL—.£IOO,OOO.
OVER 300 CLAIMS ALREADY SETTLED.
Head Offices—2s6 Pitt-st., corner of Park-st.
RICHD. TAYLOR,
Secretory.
Fftblic Companies
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1853.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £170,000.
Di hectors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman.
George A. Murray, Esq. Jeremiah B. Bundle, Esq,
William B. Walford, Esq. William A. Long, Esq.
General Manager,
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
Head Office, Sydney.
City and Suburban Branches.
Haymarket 1 Redfern | Glebe.
London Office —lB King William Street, E.C.
Branches throughout the Colonies of New South
Wales and Queensland, and Agents in all the other
Colonies, Great Britain, America, India, and China,
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL GENERAL BANKING
BUSINESS.
IHE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund ' £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.Q.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 687, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England,
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE SOCIETY.
Established 1872.
Capital —£loo,ooo, with power to incaease to £1,000,000.
. BONUSES:
20 per cent, paid annually for the last seven years.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. John Sutherland, Chairman.
Manuel F. Josephson, Esq. William Day, Esq.
John Wetherill, Esq. William Hezlet, Esq., M.P.
First Fire Society established in the
Colony on the Mutual Principle, giving
Policy-holders back part of their Pre-
miums as a Cash Bonus out of Profits
EVERY YEAR.
Policy-holders are perfectly free by law from all
liability.
Fifteen days’ grace allowed for payment of renewal
premiums,
Damage by Lightning and Explosions by
Gas laid.
Prompt and liberal settlement for fires.
Fire insurance at lowest bates.
WALTER CHURCH, Manager.
Head Office— l 44, late 184, Pitt-street (next door
but one north Evening News).
USTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1849.
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECT© RS:
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.6., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddingtou, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. | S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER:
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.R.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
. Terrace.
ACTUARY : I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magazine (London) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; *lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is the result, not of change, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.'
The Commercial Would (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says:—‘No British Company of any age can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 30 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.*
ACCUMULATED FUND, THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREET,
S\ DNEY.
THE LIVERPOOL AND LONDON AND
GLOBE INSURANCE COMPANY,
with unlimited liability, and special Acts in each
colony to enable the Company to sue and be sued. ,
Directors in Sydney :
Edward Knox, Esq., Chairman.
Benjamin Buchanan, Esq. 1 W. O. Gilchrist, Esq.
Town and country risks at lowest possible rates.
Life business in all its branches.
Principal Medical Officer :
A. Roberts, Esq.
M. W. S. CLARKE, M.A., Resident Secretary.
Head Office for Australasia—62 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Public Companies
The intercolonial life and fire
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
Head Omens 263 Gate 217), GEORGE-STREET
(formerly the Mercantile Bank.)
Capital: £lOO,OOO, in 100,000 Shares of One Pound each.
Subscribed, £50,000.
Directors :
P. A. Jennings, Esq., C.M.G., President.
_ 'Mr Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President.
T. M. Slattery. Esq.. J.P. I p. Higgins, Esq., J.P.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J. P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq. M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expense.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
classes of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE as
low as any office in the colony.
. LIFE AND FIRE POLICY-HOLDERS participate
m the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
rjIHE UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY.
Capital, £500,000. Unlimited Liability.
HEAD OFFICE—2B3 GEORGE STREET.
Fire and Marine Insurances effected on the most
reasonable terms.
F. T.' WATKINS, Manager.
..iK..
Jl
%
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
SOCIETY (LIMITED).
President:
His Honor Sir Redmond Barry, K.C.M.G.
Vice-Presidents:
New South Wales—The Hon. Sir J. George Long
lunes, M.L.C.
Queensland—The Hon. Joshua Peter Bell, M.L.C.
South Australia—Samuel Davenport, J.P.
Western Australia —The Hon. Sir Luke Samnel Leake,
M.L.C.
Directors in New South Wales:
The Hon Sir J. George Long Innes, M.L.C., Vice-
President.
The Hon. J. F. Burns, M.L.A.., Chairman.
Edward Lord, Esq., (Chairman of the Australian
Joint Stock Bank).
Alfred Chandler, Secretary.
PROGRESS OF THE SOCIETY DURING SIX
YEARS.
NEW BUSINESS.
During the year ended 31st March, 1880,
5188 proposals for • £1,488,931 0 0
1397 of which have been declined, with-
drawn, or not completed, amount-
ing to 408,650 0 0
3258 were compelled, and policies issued
for sums amounting to 810,831 0 0
833 remaining in various stages of pro-
gress
The addition to the annual income from
premiums was 29,156 18 I
The annual income on 31st March, 1810,
was 97,551 5 1
The policies in force number 9940, as-
suring 2,566,681 0 0
The present annual income exceeds, £lOO,OOO 0 0
QUINQUENNIAL INVESTIGATION.
Extract from the Valuation Report by Thomas Baud
Sprague, M.A., P.1.A., Edinburgh, and George King,
F.1.A., London :
“The valuation balance-sheet shows a snnrplus of
£6,841 9s. lid., and from our examination of the sche-
dules we are satisfied that this is a genuine surplus,
which might with safety be divided among the mem-
bers. Bearing in mind that the principles of valuation
acted npou are such as to effectually prevent the intro-
duction of negative policy values, so that in no in-
stance has a policy been reckoned as an asset in the
valuation, we consider the- above result to be one on
which the members of the society may be fairly con-
gratulated.
“ Under these circumstances, the members may
hopefully look forward to the result of the next inves-
tigation into the society’s affairs. For the present,
however, we recommend that no division of surplus be
made. It will, in onr opinion, be more advantageous for
the society that the present surplus be retained in hand
as an additional provision for unforeseen contingencies.
If not required for that purpose, it will, at the next
valuation, be available for division among the mem-
bers ; and it should then, we consider, be exclusively
appropriated to those of the existing members whoso
policies shall then still remain in force.”
SPECIAL FEATURES.
esr All Profits belong to Members.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, and Inde-
fensible on any ground whatever.
Policies are not Voided by Voyaging, Traveling,
Change of Residence or Occupation, or Suicide.
Non-forfeitable while their is Surrender Value.
Attention is particularly directed to this feature,
which in its complete form is peculiar to this Society
only.
Moderate Premiums.
Claims Payable within one Month after Proof.
All Affairs are Controlled by the Members them-
selves.
OFFICE 141 and 143 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ALFRED CHANDLER, Secretary.
Money for investment on mort-
gage. PIGOTT and TRICKETT, Solicitors,
143, King-street.
Public Companies
IHE STANDARD LIFE ASSURANCE COM-
PANY.
Head Office George-street, Edinburgh.
Sydney Branch ... 283 George-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The next DIVISION OF PROFITS will be made as
at 15th November, 1880, and Policies issued before that
date will participate in the BONUS.
F. T. WATKINS,
Secretary.
IOLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
1 SOCIETY, LIMITED.
NOTICE TO MEMBERS.
THE QUINQUENNIAL REPORT has now been
issued, but should by accident any omission have been
made, by communicating with the Secretary, a copy
will be immediately forwarded.
ALFRED CHANDLER,
Stcretary.
Offices—lll and 143 Pitt-street, Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERM \NKNT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less jjrofit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRE VT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Companj' Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, n few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 14es. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices. 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JABRETT,
Manager.
Public Notices
\\r o o l.
TO WOOLGROWEHS, MERCHANTS, and OTHERS.
THE COMING SEASON, 1880.
The near approach of the new Season, causes us to
remind growers to make their arrangements in good
time for the disposal of their Wools; and, while thank-
ing our friends for the business which has been entrust ed
to us hitherte, we have the pleasure again to offer our
services for either the SALE or SHIPMENT of the
New Clip.
The extension of the railways throughout t he interior
will cause the wool of the coming season to reach S.\ dney
both earlier and within a shorter space of time than
heretofore, and in view thereof we have made such
arrangements, by securing more extensive warehouse
accommodation, to deal with the wool as fast as it
arrives—that we can promise those who may favour ns
with their business that, as soon as the wool readies
the railway-station or the wharfs, we shall take IMME-
DIATE DELIVERY of it.
On this point, therefore, no delay need be feared by
OWNERS OP WOOL.
Our Warehouses are SPACIOUS and PAHTiCU-
LARY WELL LIGHTED, and thus admirably
adapted for the display of wooi to the best advantage.
All'wools are carefully examined and valued by our-
selves prior to being offered at auction, thus each lot is
thoroughly protected up to its full MARKET VALUE.
Instructions when given as to reserved prices are
also strictly carried out. We can, therefore, confi-
dently assure owners that every coco is exercised by us
in the disposal of Wools placed in oar bauds for sale.
In our Circular issued prior to the opening of the last
Season, we therein anticipated an active demand from
American aud Continental buyers in this market, and
the result justified our expectations, and it now affords
if s pleasure to inform Wool Growers that a still more
animated business may be confidently looked forward
to during the coming season.
The quantity of Wool sold during the past year in
the Sydney market, owing to the operations of the
foreign buyers, considerably exceeded what was sold in
any previous year, aud us the demand from the same
sources, added to the requirements of the local bnj era,
promises this coming season to he still larger, the pros-
pects that prices will be well maintained are very
bright.
These inducements will no doubt operate largely to
cause Wool growers to try this market. To tho eof
our friends who prefer shipping to London we also offer
our services.
We are always in a position to ensure best terns of
freight by first-class vessels; we will therefore ■ i‘her
ship to our Agents iu England, making full advances,
or we will hand over documents as wa may be direct d
by the owners of any clips entrusted to us for ship-
ment.
MAIDEN, HILL and CLARK
Offices —Pitt-street, Svdncv
WOOL STORES—CIRC ULAE QUAY.
C,£ & / /*
every llowcr that V?
brent* os a fraernnee.
SWEET SCENTe
LIGN-ALOE. OPCPCNAX.
I\love-among-the-rcses.
FRANGIPANNI.
AND A .THOUSAND OTHERS.
2a. 6 d. each ;or three
tu a caic t 7i. „ v 0 *
Street
URE INDIAN TEAS.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
PURE INDIAN TEAS can be had retail at the follow-
ing rates; —
Kangra Valley Orange Pekoe ss. per lb.
Darjeeling Orange Pekoe 4s. Cd. ditto
Assam Pekoe 3s. 6d. ditto
Assam Pekoe Souchong 3s. ditto
Assam Souchong 2s.‘ 6d. ditto
Cachar B Souchong 2s. dPto
Special quotations given for boxes, quarter-! h; ts,
half-chests, and chests.
In order to meet the requirements of all da of
the community, we keep other brands of iea at t'.io
following prices:—
Is., Is. 3d., Is. 6d., and Is. fid. per lb.
728 GEORGE-STREET. HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY.
EASTERN SPECIALITY COMPANY.
Sole Agency iu New South Wales for H. J. Metebs & Co.,
Calcutta.


Miscellaneous
Q L I F FORD, LOVE AND co7;
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are-
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTN1ES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
. Do. „ Peaberry
Do. ,, Nos. 1 and 2.
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—"White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old br all Urocers and Storekeepers
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
—
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp-
the following words on the steel slide of every machine*
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the-
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and «#-
a proof of its durability, is
GUAEANTEED FOE FIVE YEAES.
Seduced Pkice Listi-
ng. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com-
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WTNYABD-IjANE, SYDNEY.
BOYD’S SAN FEANCISCO PALACE OF AKT,
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STEEET.
(over Peate and Harcourt's),
Now open to the Public. The highest order Only) <*
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and blue*-
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
CAUTION.
CHE unprecedented demand caused by e
quality of the
TIN TAG TOBACCOS
inducing other manufacturers to make imnat
’ our
TIN TAG.
None are genuiue but the SOUND TIN TA >
amped wit h the words T ,
CONQUEEOE or YANKEE DOODLE.
DICKSON & SONS,
15 5 YOEK 8TBEET, S Y D N >■ v •
SYDNEY : Printed andpublished by thePr°i’ j
John Haynes and J. P. Archibald, at the
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
Ma. HUGHES AND CO.,
• 580, Grobge-stbsst,
respectfully invite Gentlemen about to purchase
WINTER UNDERCLOTHING
to pay them a visit before going elsewhere
Special Lines in-
Crimean and Flannel Undershirts from 3s 6d
Arctic, Merino, and Cotton Undershirts from Is 3d.
Lambswool Undershirts and Drawers, 4s 6d
Flannel, Merino, and Artie Drawers from 3s 9d
White shirts, Military Fronts. 3s 6d, six for 20s
Oxford and Regatta Shirts, collars on, 3s 6d six for 18s
Crimeans, Crimeans, 3s 6d six for 18s,
At M. A. HUGHES AND GO’S
380 George-street.
TtRYSDALE AND ROBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which, besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines, Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-eutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &c.
Pounders' Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
T
HE NINTH GREAT SEMI-ANNUAL SALE
OP
FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY
AT
RILEY BROTHERS’
IS NOW OPEN.
If you want to
SAVE ss. IN THE POUND
0
Don’t fail to call at
ONE OF THE SHOPS
OM
SATURDAY,
RILEY BROTHERS,
OXFORD STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
RILEY BROTHERS,
386 GKO RGB STREET.
RILEY BROTHERS,
PITT STREET.
WILLCOX
AS»
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
Mangle and
wringer, £i 10s
S. HEBBLE WHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MERIC AN MACHINEE Y DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND GO.,
No. 11. PITT-STBEET,
Importers of all Descriptions of
MACHINER Y,
Have for Sale—
J, A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prise Woed-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake's Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Bose, best
quality 3CABamih»d, Ac., Ac.
Circulars and Pi4.ee.
F.
LASSETTEB & CO. (LIMITED),
Have on view the finest exhibition of Silver-plated Ware in the Colony.
A.
K 8
Over One Hundred Patterns of TEA SERVICES to choose from.
Selected from the best Ateliers in England, the Continent, and America.
NEW DESIGNS arriving by Orient Steamship Co., comprising Cruet Frames, Entree Dishes,
Biscuit Boxes, Butter Dishes, Liquor Frames, Salvers, Cake Baskets, Napkin Rings, Prize
Cups, Toast Racks, Sardine Boxes, Ac., &c. CABINETS containing Pull Suite of
Table Appointments suitable for Presentations.
AGENTS for REED & BARTON’S American Silver-plated Ware.
AGENTS for CHRISTOFLE’S Celebrated Parisian Silver-plated Ware, every article of which is
stamped with the amount of silver deposited.
F. LASSETTEB & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
R 1 HARPER & CO.,
SYDNEY.
Against the world
HARPER & C o.’a
MiSUFACTIfBES
were awarded
TEN FIRST FRIZES
ASD THU
SPECIAL FIRST
As the BEST OF THEIR CLASS
in the
STDJTEV
• INTEKtrATION-AI.
exhibition.
1879 — 1380.
PRIZE
i
STA,
SsTVrif)
R. HARPER & CO-,
SYDNEY.
These goods are Freeh, Whole-
some, and Genuine.
T/i« Exhibition Judge s’ Report says
“Deserving of special notice. The
quality is fully equal to imported, and
they are well and tastefully got up.
R. HARPER A CO.,
SYDNEY.
BUY
PRIZE
as
’a
R. HARPER & CO.
SYDNEY.
S
I N G E R’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
A/a/vvmir n T WWr.T fi fT.afu onrl Pn \ia oronfltr wlmf if ia vorwacmnfori of. T?T^T^TT
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J, WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
he universal logistics sewing machine
Have you not hoard of it ? Have you not heard of it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Compaxt’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FAßLElGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
JETES’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT).
N ON-POISON OU S: NON-CORROSIVE! AGREEABLE.
The Greatest ANTISEPTIC, DETERGENT and DEODORISER OF THE AGE.
THE FINEST SHEEP DIP OF THh) WORLD.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dausey: Jeyea’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Her. Geo. Woo/noiigh, -If. A., Ash-field: —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more affective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney ; —Jeyes* Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. !>., Mudyee Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney; —My child had sore eyes for ‘J’, years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq.. (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney; —For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and frnit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Solo Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 23rd July 1880.
LIST of applications received in the Department of Mines for permission to mine under roods, &c.,
Ac., under the Mining Act 1874, section 28.
E. A. BAKER.
-i
W.
P. WELCH,
PRACTICAL VENETIAN & GAUZE-WIRE
PHI BLIND MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER,
HAS REMOVED TO
315 PITT STREET 315
(Opposite Congregational Church.)
Outoiie Venetian#
N.B—Old Blinds Repaired and Painted in the First Style.
Oriental Blinds.
