

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 15.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 8, 1880.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, MAY 8, 1880.
A Colonial Eugene Aram.
If "Robert Butler, who on 22nd ultimo was
charged at Dunedin with the murder of James
Murray Dewar, is guilty of the horrible crime
imputed to him he is the most fiendishly remorse-
less, cool and calculating criminal ever arraigned.
So much has been heard in Australia of the awful
tragedy in question—of the deliberate midnight
assassination, almost in the heart of a city of
40,000 inhabitants, of an inoffensive working man
and his wife by blows of an axe wielded by an
unknown hand; of the murderer’s ineffectual
attempt to fire the house in order to obliterate the
evidences of his guilt; of the alarm which so foul
a deed, closely following on other mysterious and
still unavenged crimes throw the inhabitants of
New Zealand—so much, we say, has been written
in the colonial Press concerning this fearful event
that the proceedings at the trial of Butler, the
alleged murderer, would under any circumstances
have been of more than passing interest. But if
the deed in question, from the tiger-like stealth
and ferocity which characterised its perpetration
was enough to send across two thousand miles of
ocean the full force of the shudder which on the
14th March last ran through New Zealand, so in
a no less degree must the leading incidents in the
trial of Robert Butler ai’rest the attention of
our readers. Briefly stated, the chief evidence
submitted by the Crown in support of the theory
of Sutler’s guilt consisted of the following
rcumstances:—
(1). That Butler, who was a habitual criminal, took
up his residence at an hotel near the Dewars’ house
three days before the date of the murder. (2). That
on the night of the occurrence he was absent from his
lodgings. (3). That when, in the morning, he returned,
he was noticed to be anxious-looking and had his coat
collar tightly buttoned around his throat. (4). That,
when told of the murder, he seemed anxious to leave
the hotel as soon as possible. (5). That he left the
hotel precipitately, and when arrested presented a re-
volver at the constables. (6). That he had changed his
clothes, concealing in the bush those he doffed and that
tins of salmon, bearing the same fcrand as some known
to have been purchased by him, were found near the
spot where bis cast off-clothes were discovered. (7).
That the clothes last mentioned bore blood stains cor-
responding to the height from the floor of certain other
blood-marks found on the door of the victims’ bedroom.
(8). That on the sill of the window by which the mur-
derer entered the house there were heel-marks, and
that Butler, when arrested, was found to have removed
the outer soles from his boots. (9). That Butler’s
shirt, which he had not changed, was speckled with
blood.
The facts upon which we base the foregoing re'
marks are condensed from the verbatim report
published by the Otago Witness, which in one
issue devotes no less than forty-two columns of
space to Butler’s trial. The accused declined
legal assistance and elected to defend himself,
despite the impressive caution of the learned
judge. But never was man’s confidence in his
own abilities better founded. Butler, who like
Eugene Aram, was a schoolmaster, could not in
his defence urge, as did the unhappy scholar of
King’s Lynn, that the “ tenor of his life con-
tradicted the indictment,” but he nevertheless
displayed the possession of forensic talents which
for the moment lifted him from the dock and
placed him high above the ablest criminal
advocates of modern times. Robert Butler’s
speech in his own behalf, delivered extempore
after he had been nearly sixty hours without sleep
—delivered, too, while he, who is almost certainly
the murderer, stood between the gallows and the
spectres of the assassinated Dewars —is one of
the most remarkable utterances extant. The
Knaresborough murderer’s poetic words, filtered
through the classic pen of Lytton, can never be
forgotten by the reader; nor can Tom Hood’s
thrilling lines, “ The Dream of Eugene Aram,”
ever cease to reverberate through the memory of
him who has heard Walter Montgomery recite
them: But the modern Aram’s pleading was
“ wholly unequalled from the lips of one defending
his own cause.” The ability displayed by him in
cross-examining ; his wonderful tact; the manner
in which he adapted his more than shrewd inter-
rogations to legal form; the incisiveness of his
logic ; the cleverness with which, while fighting for
life, he battered down the theories of prosecutor,
doctors and detectives and reconciled what were
submitted by the Crown as the most contradictory
circumstances —above all, his keen knowledge of
human nature and his eloquence, are without
parallel in the history of crime.
We regret that we cannot afford space for even
a summary of Butler’s defence, and we now
allude to the case not merely with a view of
directing attention to facts which are stranger
than the wildest fiction but also in the hope that all
those who read the current number of the Wit-
ness will extract therefrom the several ideas
■which inevitably suggest themselves to the re-
flective mind. As wo have previously remarked,
there can be little moral doubt of Butler’s
guilt; but it is equally true that no man can road
the extended narrative alluded to without coming
to the conclusion that the accused was acquitted
not because the jury believed him innocent but
because, however strong the circumstantial evi-
dence, they were unwilling in the absence of direct
proof to take upon themselffis that awful burden,
the blood of a fellow-creature. The prisoner, who
tripped up individual witnesses on more than one
point, made it evident to the jury that circum-
stances could lie as well as men inasmuch as cir-
cumstances are exactly what men make them;
and he showed that some of the very circum-
stances urged as evidences of his guilt might with
equal force have been used in proof of the culpa-
bility of another person. The ingenuity and
plausibility of the man are unexampled and serve
to demonstrate that many a prisoner is con-
victed not by reason of the fact that there
are no holes in the evidence against him, but
because he has no one clever enough to point
them out. Butler is a 44 cool hand,” and
his own words, had he not had the acumen which
prompted him, throughout his five hours’ speech,
to speak of himself in the third person and to sup-
press the ego wherever possible, might almost have
fallen on the ears of the jury as the strongest evi-
dence against him —have fallen on their ears as
words which indicated that the prisoner had confi-
dence in his iron nerve, and knew that he had re-
duced the art of ulurder to an exact science. Said
Butler : —
‘ It is only moths that into the fire, and only
children and fools—only madmen and unmistakeable
fools—that will walk to the brink of a precipice that is
crumbling beneath their feet. There is a sort of stock
idea that a murderer is always compelled by an in-
visible force as it were to do some glaringly foolish
thing that will bring him within the grasp of the law
and the vengeance of God. This is but a vague kind of
reasoning. The doings of men and their success are
regulated by the amount of discretion and judgment that
they possess, and this without impugning or denying
the existence of a Providence. I say that this is a law.
and holds good in all cases, whether for evil or for good.
It is a law of universal truth. Murderers, if they have
the sense, and ability, and discretion to cover up their
crime, will escape, do escape, and have escaped. There
is another stock saying, “ That murder will out." But
this, too, like many other stock formulas of Old World
wisdom, is not true. Without pointing to the many
murderers In high places—from Nimrod downwards—
liow many murders are there that the world lias not
heard of, and never will ? How many a murdered man,
for instance, lies among the gum-trees of Victoria, or in
the old abandoned mining shafts on the'diggings, who
is missed by nobody, perhaps, but a pining wife at home,
a helpless child, or an old mother ? But who were their
murderers ? Where are they ?*
Butler’s acquittal forms an unanswerable argu-
ment against the retention in our code of that
time-honored institution capital punishment. It
is reasanable to assume that had the jury been
given the option of returning a verdict ot “ not
proven” instead of one of “not guilty” they
would have adopted the former alternative ; and
it is almost ns certain that they refrained from
convicting the accused because of a knowledge
that investigation of his case, so far as this world
is concerned, would end with the ’ utterance by
their foreman of that simple little word which has
consigned so many innocent men to their graves.
The certainty of punishment was baulked by the
severity of the law —and this we say while admit-
ting that Butler owes it in great measure to his
unprecedentedly able defence that his body has
not ere now been interred in the gaol yard. He
was arraigned at a period of the most intense
public excitement —at a time when probably the
only persons capable of pronouncing a dispas-
sionate opinion on his case were the learned judge
and the twelve men to whom his fate was commit-
ted and who, properly appreciating their terrible
responsibility, declined to leave anything to
chance. The summing up of Mr. Justice Wil-
liams was clear, judicial, dignified and torse,
but it, like the finding of the jury, is altogether
disapproved of by The Witness and other papers,
which evidently shared the popular feeling, and
were at the time better fitted to prosecute than to
hold the balance. As Butler was only arraigned
for the murder of Mr. Dewar it is proposed to
try him over again for the murder of Mrs. Dewar.
The adoption of such a course, we consider, would
be iniquitous, the crime being substantially the
same, and one of the leading principles of British
law being that no man shall be tried twice for the
same offence. On the present occasion it is idle
to deny that the failure is with the law itself and not
with its administrators.,
An All-Australian Eight.
That the colouios are becoming better known in
England cannot be disputed, nor can the fact be
doubted that the sporting events which have taken
place in the field and on the river have in a lai’ge
measure tended to promote this end. The visit of
Richard Green to England in 1863 paved the way
for International contests, but for some reason or
other there was no one ready again to “ tackle ”
the scullers of the old world until 1876 when
James Punch paid his memorable visit to Eng-
land with our sculling hero Edward Trickett.
The latter’s performance somewhat staggered
Englishmen, but the great victories achieved at
home by the first team of Australian cricketers
were such as to completely surprise the thousands
who assembled to witness the matches. The
enthusiastic manner in which the proposal to send
Edward Trickett a second time to England, to
row Hanlan, was entertained in Sydney, as well
as throughout the country, shows clearly that a
large section of the public takes an active interest
in international athletic contests so long as they
are fairly and honorably conducted and the betting’
and gambling element is carefully excluded from
them. We think the time has now arrived when
we should send an Australian eight-oared amateur
crew to try conclusions with the best English oars-
men over the Putney and Mortlake course. The
intercolonial contests are now fairly established
and they have done much not only to improve
outrigger rowing, but to more firmly cement the
friendly feeling which has always existed between
the amateur athletes of the two colonies. The
next race is to be rowed on the Parramatta River
early in 1881, and if our suggestion be entertained
by the rowing associations of Victoria and New
South Wales steps should at once be taken to
ascertain how many of the oarsmen likely to form
the crews on that occasion will probably be able
to take a trip to the Old World. In these days of
rapid and cheap steam travelling the project is much
more feasible than it appears at first sight, and if
our leading oarsmen, both active and retired, would
but put their shoulders to the wheel in earnest we
arc sure that Australia would put together a crew
capable of holding its own against the best of
Englishmen.
Mr. T. M. Slattery and Mr. T. J. Chapman.
We believe our readers will look with interest
upon the portraits which we give to-day, and
peruse with satisfaction the biographies which
accompany them. No event of recent occurrence
in our midst has attracted so much attention a
the removal of the late Prothonatory from
office, and we add—with a certainty of winning
general concurrence in the remark —never has an
officer in thisjcolony lost official favour and yet won
such public respect. The dispute between th
Government and Mr. Slattery involves question
of law, about which, however, there can now be but
MR. T. M. SLATTERY.
MR. T. J. CHAPMAN.


little doubt and, what is of more importance,
for our purpose, questions of honor. Let the legal
aspect of the matter be what it may, the fact re-
mains that Mr. Slattery sacrificed himself to save
his friend ; and his sacrifice was something real.
He occupied the position with honor,and ho appears
to have been determined to retain it by no other
means. It is pretty well known what occasioned
the move against Mr. Chapman in the
present instance ; and hereafter it will always be
considered inconvenient, if not actually dan-
gerous, for a civil servant to have monetary
transactions with any high official superior. But
Mr. Slattery was stedfast, and rather than destroy
the friendship of boyhood and manhood, and at
the same time do an injustice, ho declined, as
directed by the Government, to remove Mr. Chap-
raan from his position. How grievously the Gov-
ernment has erred on legal grounds the public are
pretty well-aware, and they need not bo told with
what sacrifice of honour has the personal ill-will
of one of the Ministers pursued Mr. Chapman.
Against this stands in a strong light the conduct
of Mr. Slattery, who has shown himself to bo
possessed of a fine spirit of manliness and punc-
tilious honour. He has by this one act won many
friends in every section of the community. The
Government are the only persons who can regret
what has occurred. They have been completely
worsted in the official oorrrespondonco that has
taken place, and in the public prints the late
Prothonotary has shone to even greater advantage.
The real outcome will doubtless bo this. A man
of honour and of unusual ability will have been
called out into a more active and riseful
life; and the Minister responsible for the
whole affair will have found still arrayed
against him every man of principle and honour.
With respect to Mr. Slattery, we learn from
Heaton’s “ Mon of the Time,” that ho is an Irish-
man by birth, and was educated at St. Mary’s (old)
Seminary, and was for about throe years a private
pupil of J. S. Paterson, Esq., LL.D., barrister-
at-law and for some time Lecturer of the Sydney
University, with whom he read Greek, Latin,
French, Algebra, Euclid, History and Law. He was
appointed junior clerk, H.M. Customs, August
23, 1864; fifth clerk, Central Police Court,
February 7, 1863 ; third clerk, equity office, Su-
premo Court, February 23, 1870; third clerk of
the Supremo Court, December 1, 1872; clerk of
the Divorce and Matrimonial Causes Court, July
1. 1873; chief clerk of the Supreme Court,
Deputy Registrar of the Divorce Court, and
Secretary to the Barristers’ Admission Board,
September 1, 1874; passed his examination as an
attorney, solicitor, and proctor, and admitted July
3, 1873 —their Honors the Judges (the Chief Jus-
tice, Sir James Martin, Mr. Justice Hargrave, and
Mr. Justice Faucett) complimenting him in open
court for passing a most successful examination.
He was Appointed Prothonotary and Curator of In-
testate Estates, also Registrar of the Divorce Court
and Registrar of the Vice-Admiralty Court of New
South Wales, January 12, 1876. Mr. Slattery is
married to a daughter of the late Mr. Stephen
O’Connor, of Chippendale, a very old and
respected colonist; and it may, in con-
clusion, be mentioned, that he comes from the
best Irish stock, being a descendant of the Slat-
torys of Groenarne, and up to within a few weeks
past—a fact worth recording—there lived in this
city a woman who had seen, and most of her life
had been in the service of, five generations of the
family. Mr. Slattexy is naturally proud of his
origin. Ho has in his last act well maintained the
principles of integrity, and added honour to his
name.
Mr. Thomas John Chapman, of “ East Lynne,”
Glebe Point, is the youngest sou of the late Mr.
William Chapman, of Cioyne, County of Cork,
Ireland, and came to this colony some years since
to join his half-brother, Mr. Michael Chapman.
J.P., formerly Mayor of the City of Sydney, in
business. He is married to the only daughter and
only surviving child of the Hon. John Sutherland.
For several years past Mr. Chapman has taken a
very active interest in public affairs, and lias
always been regarded as one of the most inde-
fatigable and zealous of committee-men, whether
supporting or opposing candidates either for Par-
liamentary or Municipal positions. There is pro-
bably no young man in the country so like his
father-in-law as Mr. Chapman so far as his private
life and the interest he takes in public affairs are
concerned. Like Mr. Sutherland, he is the trusted
friend of a multitude of colonists, his bare word
being his bond wherever given. Like Mr. Suther-
land, he is one of the most loyal and faithful of
friends, a worker not a talker, and in private life
is beloved for his many virtues and his charitable
disposition. Mr. Chapman is a magistrate
of the territory. He is Past District Grand
Registrar of the Freemasons under the English
Constitution of this Colony, and is also the Trea-
surer of the Medical, Funeral, ‘ Widows and
Orphans’ and District Fund of the Manchester
Unity of Oddfellows, which association numbers
several thousand members. He is also one of the
Directors of the Interrtational Fire and Life
Company. The very fact of Mr. Chapman holding
these high positions shows that he is a gentleman
of large influence in the city ; and it is to bo hoped
that he will place his services at the disposal of
of the_ public for Parliamentary position at the
next dissolution of the Assembly. It may safely
be predicted that if ho does so his election is cer-
tain, and that in public life he will command, by
his fidelity and high regard for honour, a promi-
nent place in the councils of the country. It may
not be out of place to say that Mr. Chapman’s
late father served under Lord Nelson at the Battle
of Trafalgar.
WOMAN ITEMS.
• Train a dress in tlie way it should go,’ &c.
A Mormon elder recently left New Zealand for Salt
Lake with fourteen new wives.
A. N. Y. dressmaker, in trying to fit a dress on a
client, has broken the latter’s ribs. The victim fell
down in a (tight) fit.
A “ Ladies’ Mile” is the latest Hobart Town in-
stitution. Unpretentious shandrydans are being fitted
with standing-boards for footmen. Lynx in the
Tasmanian Mail suggests the provision of benches out-
side the fashionable drapers’ for the gold-stick flunkeys.
More than twenty years ago a young couple met, loved
and married in Victoria. Their courtship was brief
and six months after marriage the husband bolted to a
New South Wales rush. Subsequently the young wife
died in giving birth to a daughter, who was adopted and
a Stood education by a childless lady, the wife of
'Victorian civil servant. Black Wednesday came and
the huly s husband was dismissed. He sickened and
died. His wife caught typhoid fever and followed him.
The adopted daughter, thrown on her own resources
became first a governess and then tiring of that often
worse than menial occupation, turned barmaid. She
went to N. Z , turned the heads of the Dunedin jennesse
doree and then, receiving a tempting offer from a
Wellington bomf ace, where a middle-aged commercial
traveller fell in love with and became engaged to marry
her. She told her lover the history of her life, even
from the date of her parents’ marriage. He grew pale
as the narrative went on and at last standing up in
horror exclaimed, ‘ Why, you are my own daughter.’
ihe young lady has since been married—but not to her
lather. The truth of this romantic story is vouched
for by the Wellington Post, from the extended "r ra-
tive published in which we condense the above.
SPORTING.
INDEX TO RACES TO COME.
Breewarina April or May
Wilcanuia May Oth and 7th
S. A. J. C. Autumn May 7th add Bth‘
Bourke May 20th and 21st
Queensland T. C. Autumn May 22nd and 2tth
Parramatta J. C. May 24th
Walgett May 2tth and 25th
Newcastle May 24th and 25th
Muswellbrook June 2nd and 3rd
Index to Closing of Stakes.
Parramatta General May I2th
Dalhy Firing. Town Plate, and J. C. H’cap May 13th
Q. T. C. General Entry May 14th
Muswellbrook Ladies’ Mile and Tattersall’s
Stakes May 18th
Walsf»tt General Entry May 22nd
Clarence J. C. and City Handicaps May 22nd
Index to Declaration of Weights.
Muswellbrook Handicap May 9th
Newcastle Shorts. J. C., and City May 17th
Newcastle minor handicaps May 24th
Parramatta , May 19th
Index to Forfeits.
Wilcannia J. C. Handicap accept May 7th
Walgett Handicap accept May 10th
Muswellbrook Handicaps accept May 18th
Newcastle Shorts, J. C. and City Handicrps
accept May 20th
Newcastle Free, Nursery and Flying accept May 24th
Answers to Correspondents,
QUERIST: —A double-barrelled boot-jack ve have heard of
though never seen, bat if it is as good at saving labour as
a double-barrelled, editor it must be a good invention,
The first editor of the sort has discussed that tiro trays,
a four, a five and a tray on the pack, at cribhnge, count
thirty (30), but. he has not told how to add the one to the
highest known hand at the game (29). We thought the
five cards mentioned made (21)
GUNNING: —Four fires and n knave the same suit as the
turn up count 29. 2. Four trays and a 9 count 24.
RULER: —Ten ell a is full sister to Mnribyrnong, both being
by Fisherman from Rose de Florence.
Turf Talk.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
The principal item of importance during the
week has been the meeting of the Warwick
(Brisbane) Racing Club, held on Tuesday and
Wednesday last, but as the accounts to hand are
necessarily brief, being only telegraphic, I am un-
able'to tell much of the proceedings. The doings,
however, introduced a horse named the Bai-ber and
Mayfly, who is, if I remember aright, a son of the
Bart, and from his defeat of Orphan and Satirist,
great things are looked for at the oomidg Queens-
land Turf Club Mooting from him. The results of
both days will be found in another column, from a
correspondent. Your index points to the second
day of the Wilcannia meeting to come off on this
Friday and Saturday, but neither of these fixtures
have created any great stir in sporting circles
here. In the coming week there are several items
coming under the head of “ closing of stakes ”
that cannot well be lost sight of and owners had
bettor keep thorn well in mind or attend at once to
their requirements. The first to call for attention
is the Parramatta Meeting for Queen’s Birthday,
the 24th. There are seven items to be entered for
made up thus: A jumping race of 30 sovs.,
Flying Handicap of 40 sovs., Prince of Wales of
20 sovs.. Birthday Handicap of 60 sovs., Two
Year Old Handicap of 30 sovs., and a Park and
Hack Stakes, and no one will deny that they make
up a very enticing programme. W ednesday next
is the day for thorn to bn entered for, and I expect
to see a bumper list, both in number and quality.
Then on Thursday, the Dalby Flying and Jockey
Club Handicaps and Town Plato cal fo entries,
and no doubt horse'ownors within easy distance of
that township will respond liberally. The Queens-
land general entry falls due on the following day,
Friday, and this being an item that requires more
than ordinary attention, I hope owners will not
fail to give it the consideration it deserves. The
acceptances to be found in another column give
every promise, but I am sorry to notice the absence
of both Martindalo and Freemason, and now I
don’t expect to see the “ blue and white ” of the
Hon. James White represented. The imposts for
the Muswelbrook Handicap are set down for de-
claration on the coming Tuesday, but they will in
all probability be declared to-day. Acceptances
are due on this Friday for the Wilcannia Handicap,
and as silence means to be loft out, all those who
intend staying in had better notify their willing-
ness. A similar business is also on the card for
the Walgett Handicap, which, however, does not
require attention until Monday, and this done I
have nothing{furthor in the way of “reminders”
for the present week.
My brother scribe, “Augur,” of the Austra-
lasian, cannot help having his periodical ifling at
the A.J.C., because that body has persistently re-
fused to be ruined by adding big money to all their
stakes, for his special satisfaction. Wo of New
South Wales are satisfied with recent entries for
the two and three year old stakes, notwithstanding
his “damning with faint praise,” and his belief
that the Foal Stakes entries would have been more
numerous only the A.JC do not add one single
shilling ” to the stake. Augur passes by as too
insignificant for his notice the JJIOO added for the
breeder of the winner, and also the fact that the
stake at its first offer will bo worth close on, if not
quite, to £7OO. Ho seems to forget that the
largest stakes as well as greatest betting races in
the world are made up without a single shilling
being added to the swoops and forfeits of the
owner’s; that the “Derby” “Oaa,” and “Legor”
have stood the' test of time and circumstance for
over a hundred years, with the following history
attaching to them: The Derby, in 1780, had 36
subscribers, and 9 went to the post. In 1879 it
reached its hightost number of subscribers—279
—(five more than in Lord Lyon’s year) and there
were 23 starters ; the largest number' that ever
went to the post being 34, when Caractacus won
in 1862. The Oaks commenced with 17 sub-
scribers and 12 starters in 1779, and reached 215
subscribers in 1868, the number in 1879 being 179.
The largest field for the “ Ladies’ Race ” has been
26 in 1848 (Cymba’s year). The “Great St.
Leger;” though not named till 1778, had its origin
two years earlier, when there were six subscribers
and five to the post. Up to 1878, the largest
number of subscribers was reached in that year,
243, and the largest field was in Memnon’s year
(1825), when 30 faced the flag. Since 1833, the
largest fields have been two “ nineteens,” in Lord
Clifdon’s and Hawthornden’s years respectively.
Considering that in long two and three year old
races in the old country, added money is, and
always has been the exception, not the rule, there
is no particular reason why “Augur” should
be so “exercised” in “shelling out” short-
comings of the A.J’.G. re Champagne Derby and
Legor, which have been doing well and satisfying
horse owners for fifteen years, and now on the
subject of the newly-started Foal Stakes, which
bids tair to take its leading, placc 3 in spite of
Augur's” sneers,
People who have seen the “ Liverpood Grand
National” assure me that Lecturer is not a bit like
a winner of it, except in the opinion of the great
authority who found a mare’s nest for the Town
and Country Journal a few weeks back,
touching the pedigree of “ Ave Maria.”
Sunlight was not shown at Maitland. Fact!
My big friend in Pitt-street is supposed to have
cribbed the mistake from the M. M., as it did for
the Evening News and Town and Country
no fewer than thirteen, glaring errors in two days of
last Randvfick Races, from a morning daily. Mr.
A. Bowman thanks the Press for placing his old
champion third.
I have boon informed by Mr. Clibborn that he
[ has sold the imported, horse Grandmaster by
Gladiateur (son of Monarque), out of Celorina by
I Stockwell out of Slander, by Pantaloon out of
Pasquinale, to Mr. Duncan M'Kay, of Singleton ;
and as several of Grandmaster’s stock have raced
well, as witness the doings of the Victorian horse
Sussex, he ought to pay his way well in the now
home.
The “ Father of the Australian Turf,” Mr. John
Tait, leaves our shores to-morrow (Sunday) in the
Hydaspes for England, accompanied by another
great sportsman, Mr. S. Smith. It is on the
score of ill-health that Mr. Tait leaves us. I
express a hope that ho may return ore long
thoroughly benefited by the trip and change, and
and join once more in the busy throng and noble
pastime he has all along been a shining light in.
I wish the proprietor of the yellow and black hon
voyage.
i road in one of the morning dailies a day or two
ago that after the current year the English Derby
will be run at Gravesend and not at Epsom
Downs. Some years ago there was a difficulty
about leasing the Epsom Downs racecourse, and
no doubt a similar difficulty has again cropped up
and made removal a necessity.
The Hawkesbury Race Club are once more early
in the field with the dates of the Spring Meeting,
and as usual the racing will take place in August,
the 19th and 21st being the two days decided on.
My readers will see in another column the en-
tries for the principal race on the Muswellbrook
programme, to which I drew attention in your
last; and there can bo no two opinions that they
have filled much better than was even anticipated,
and I glory in the opinion that a successful meeting
may bo anticipated.
It will no doubt bo nows for sporting men to
learn that Mr. Howie has named a daughter of
Bethnal Green and Realisation —Result; a colt by
King Colo from Frou Frou —The Duke ; a colt by
Kelpie from Britannia —Nelson ; and a colt by
Piscator from Topaz, Kohinoor.
Mr. E. Dakin, the Victorian trainer, has suc-
ceeded H. Tothill as a private trainer for Sir Thos.
Elder of Adelaide. Tothill, who has been very
successful while engaged in such pursuits, intends
going into business in Adelaide as a public
trainer. >
Mr. Philip Glenistor, well known as a member
of the Victorian Ring, has placed his racehorses
in the hands of Mr. Youille of Melbourne for
private sale. lam sorry for this, for though one
of the much-abused bookmakers, Mr. Glenister’s
horses ‘ always went to win.’
_ A few days ago a match for .£3O a-side was de-
cided at Kyuoton (says the Leader) between Mr.
C. F. Fraser’s b h Wantage and Mr. M’Kincllay’s
r g Sheriff, over one mile of ground, weight lOst.
each. Wantage was ridden by his owner, and
Sheriff by Ivemy, the jockey. As Sheriff had
always been looked upon as a most dangerous op-
ponent over this distance, he was of course made
the favourite. He, however, would seem to have
lost much of his pace, for after running half a
mile together, Wantage loft the old roan, and won
cleverly.
At the last Calcutta (India) meeting, Dalesman
(well known in Victoria), errrying 10st - 101 b., boat
Goulburn, 12st. 101 b., in the Calcutta Cup, value
1000 rupees. From the news to hand, Dalesman
is said to have had all the condition on his side,
and if so, that will easily occount for Goulburn’s
defeat.
The racehorse Lexicon, by Stockton, from Screw-
tail, has been purchased by Mr. John Cleeland for
59 guineas.
Hadji Baba, a son of The Barb, and the well-
known racehorse Verdict, opposed each other in a
mile race on the Parramatta course a few days
ago. The stakes were £5O a-side ; and after a
great race the son of The Barb won by half a
length.
Judging by the long list of entries and weights
to bo found in another column, for the meeting to
take place at Wilcannia, it can hardly fail to give
good spefrt.
Master Avonal and Lorton returned from their
Dubbo and Wellington trip on Tuesday last, as
also Mr. Ivory, and both horses and owner appear
to have lost nothing by the amount of travelling
they have done. lam informed that the “ blue
and straw ” has received an addition to its ranks
of a chosnut filly by Julian Avenal from Sultana,
but not having seen her, I am unable to tell any-
thing as to w'hat she gives promise of.
The racehorse Sunlight, by Gemma di Vergy,
from a mare by Gemma di Vergy, is in the market
for sale, and anyone in want of a good, useful, and
one of the best horses of his day, have an oppor-
tunity that is seldom offered.
The members of the Sydney Amateur Turf Clnb
hold a meeting at the A. J.C. Secretariat on Friday
last, Mi*. E. Terry presiding. A report and
balance sheet were adopted, the latter showing
that the last meeting of the S.A.T.C. had been a
success, the club’s funds benefitting to the extent
or £126, leaving to the credit of the S.A.T.C. a
sum of £257 4s. 21d. Several members were in
favour of future meetings being strictly amateur,
and it is quite probable that the next fixture will
confine itself solely to non-professionals.
As there appears to be a general doubt as to the
penalties incurred by the principal winners at
Warwick, I may inform my readers that The
Barber has incurred 31bs. penalty and Orphan
51bs., the conditions being similar in the Moreton
Handicap and the Brisbane Cup.
Betting.
On the forthcoming Queensland Meeting there has
been some little business done, but principally in doubles.
The Barber, after winning- at Warwick, was supported
for a ‘ monkey’ at 100’s to 5 for the Moreton Handicap
and Brisbane Cup, and a similar price has been booked
about Orphan and Barker, Barber and Sydney, and the
‘ Two Orphans,’ The Guineas and Derby entries that
we published a fortnight ago have also given rise to a
little speculation, and 100’s to 5 have been taken, prin-
cipally with Kamalaroi for the former, and Geraldine
and Grand Prix for the latter. The coming Coursing
Meeting on the Bathurst Plains has also had its fair
share of attention from the ring, and on the Derby and
Oaks, doubles at 100’s to 3 have been going, made up
thus; Lelantus and Hornpipe, Lolantus and Bess
Blackburn, Hop Market and Hornpipe, Hop Market
and Lua Kua, and Hop Market and Bess Blackburn.
On the Bathurst Cup 5 to 1 is the best offer on the field,
and that price has been booked about Lelex, who is first
favourite. 6to 1 has been accepted about Lucifer, and
10 to 1 about Honeydew. On the Cup and Dockaime
.Stakes 100’s to are offered, but th» business done in
this line is not of sufficient importance to quote, J
Coursing.
The New South Wales Coursing Cluh will open their
season next week, the meeting commencing on Tuesday
to last probably four days; and it is not too much to
say that no sporting institution has ever commenced a
campaign under brighter auspices. This is the fifth
season only of coursing in New South Wales, and the
beginning in ,1876 was certainly very small, but since
then the sport has become uncommonly popular, grey,
hounds ns 'a natural consequence having made vast
strides of improvement and increase both in quality
and number, until one of our leading coursers went
down to Melbourne last season and pulled off the
Waterloo Cup with a puppy that is up to now unbeaten.
Of the coming season there is every promise of great
sport, the hares being, we believe, plentiful and strong;
and the different kennels unusually strong in their rel
preseutatives. Mr. Lee Lord, who last season wag a
perfect Triton among minnows, is,said to have puppies
for The Derby and Oaks that will rival the doings of
Lelex and Lethe. The Hill-Gardener kennel is as usna
full of dangerous ones. Mr. Tooth has an extensive
string, go has Mr. Walter Lamb, Mr. Walter Hall and
Bladou of the Woodstock public kennel. Then there
are the Bathurst lots of Messrs. Lee, Kite, Snttor,
Saville, and many more, and ns all the kennels are full
of the best blood out of England, besides being presided
over by skilled trainers, the contests are sure to be
close and exciting. This time Mr. M'Culloch, for some
time the leading coursing writer of Victoria, aad during
the last three or four seasons has presided over the
‘ leash’ columns of The Leader, makes his dehat as a
public judge ; and we are sure all who know him will
honestly wish him success in his new character. We
have read some ill-natured allusions to Mr. MCulloch
in a Melbourne sporting paper, and heard of equally ill-
natured remarks being made verbally with the evident
intention of damaging him before hand in the estimation
of New South Wales coursers; bat as from some unac-
countable reason there has more than once cropped up
in one section*of Melbourne coursers a jealousy of the
New South Wales Club, Mr. M'Culloch need not grieve
at the set made at him. At all events there is no man
in Victoria able to separate a brace of greyhounds better
than he; he is thoroughly well up in all the minutiae of
coursing law and rule, perhaps more so than any other
man either in Victoria or New South Wales ; and know-
ing him as we do, we have no doubt about him deciding
his courses equitably, without fear or affection for any-
body. Tuesday will also introduce a new slipper on
the plains of Leeholme and Dockaime, the business
being entrusted to K, G. Banner, wh 5, like Wilson, has
made a good name during several years of professional
service in Victoria. The Club officials will do their duty
well no doubt, and Messrs. C. C. Skarratt and George
Denny (both by the bye owners of Royal Hotels) fill the
most important and arduous roles, namely, slip-steward
and flag-steward respectively.
NEW SOUTH WALES COURSING CLUB.
Mr. C. C. Skaratt presided at a committee meeting:
of the above club, held at the Royal Hotel on Monday
lust for the purpose of settling all preliminary arrange,
ments relative to the coming ‘ meet.' Mr. Lee Lord
stated that the use of horses had been arranged for by
him ; and Mr. W. Hall informed the meeting that the
Commissioner for Railways had decided to issue tickets
to Bathurst for to-day and Monday available for a week
at a single rate for the double journey. After a short
discussion as to how the different stakes should be run
off, it was decided that the stewards be requested to
have the first round of the Derby and Oaks on the first
day, and the first round of the Cup and Dockairne
stakes on the second day. Several unimportant matters
were then gone into and the meeting terminated.
The following are the entries for Derby and Oaks;
THE DEKBY.
F. B. Bloomfield’s bk w Barrister, The Judge—Caller
Ou, January 27, 1879
R. L. Tooth’s bk w Telemaque, Claverhouse—Crown
Jewel, August 6, 1878
bk w Taskmaster, Domestic—Cousin
Dolly, October 10, 1878
A. L. Park’s f bk Portsmouth, Portland—Kilbum,
October 15, 1878
G. L. Lord’s bk w Lcclaps, Good Auteority—Seawave,
November 9, 1878.
| I — bk w Lelautus, Good Authority—Seawave,
November 9,1878
J. "Weir's us bk w Hop Factor, Red Rover —Margery
Daw, October 1, 1878
— ns r w Hop Market, Barmby—Brindisi,
August 3,1878
W. Leo’s, Jnur., bk w Lexicon, Good Authority—Sea-
wave, November 9, 1878
f Lightning, Jacobite—Riot, Novem-
her 29, 1878
rorf Lantern, Jacobite —Riot, Novem-
ber 29,1878
w bk Lost Money, Good Authority—
Nydia, November 15, 1878
bk w Land Agent, Good Authority—
Nydia, November 15, 1878
J. Lee’s, junr., blk w Loftus, Good Authority—Nydia,
November 15, 1878
w/blk Landlord, Good Authority—Nydia,
November 15, 1878
W. Kitewood’s w Kelpie, Baruuah—Maid of the Mill,
December 13,1878
! bd w Kinsman, Barunah—Maid of the
Mill, December 13, 1878
J. Carpenter’s bd w Peasant Boy, Zig Zag—Lily, August
8. 1878
W. Lamb’s f Little Ned, Master Edward —La Rapide,
November 12, 1878
W. H. Lamb’s r Larriston, The Judge—Caller Ou,
January 27,1879
"W. H. and P. A. Lamb’s f Lottery, Barmby—Lassie.
August 4, 1878
H. P. Mostyn’s bk w Sultan, Sportsman—Eastern
Princess, September 11, 1878
J. M’Call’s r or f w Sunlight, Barmby—Lady of the
Lake, December, 1878
E. F. Stephen’s bd w Rajah, Sportsman—Eastern
Princess, September 11,1878
H. M'Quade’s us bk w My Lord, Lanercost —Rupertiua,
December 8, 1878
ns w bd Marksman, Sportsman—Ada, Oc-
tober, 1878.
THE OAKS.
R- L. Tooth’s bk w Tenacity. Claverhouse—Crown
Jewel, August 6, 1878
— w Telescope, Domestic—Cousin Dolly,
October 10, 1878
A- L. Park’s w Fairy, Portland—Kilburn, October Is,
1878
G. W. Lord’s bk w Lola, Good Authority—Seawave.
November 9, 1878
bk w Lua Lua, Good Authority—Sea-
wave, November 9, 1878
J. Weir’s r w Wild Brier, Red Rover—Margery Daw,
October 1, 1878
G. Hill’s, jun., ror f w Highland Lass, Barmby—Brin-
disi, March 21. 1879
f or r w Hop Bin, Barmby—Brindisi,
August 3,1878
f or r w Hornpipe, Barmby—Rawena,
July 7, 1878
J. Weir’s r or f w JWild Duck, Barmby—Lady of the
Lake, December, 1878
Dr. C. Bclisario’s bk w Bess Blackburn, Claverhouse—
Miss Willis, October 24, 1878
f or r w Belle Olga, Athole Brose—Bees-
wing, November 14, 1878
J. Lee’s jun., bk w Logic, Good Authority—Nydia,
November 15, 1878
W. Kite’s f or r w Katrina, Baranah—Maid of the Mill,
December 13, 1878
r w bk Keda, Baruna—Maid of the Hill, De-
cember 13, 1878
W. Lee’s jun, r w Lilian, Red Rover—Margery Daw,
October 1, 1878
G. R. Suttor’s r w Miss Molly, Sportsman—Eastern
Princess, September 11, 1878
J. Carpenter's bk w Chloe, Garibaldi—Fly, August 9,
G. Denny’s bk w Magpie, Sportsman—Nightshade. No-
vember 23, 1878
P. A. Lamb’s bk w Ladybird, The Judge—Caller On,
January 27, 1879
W. Lamb’s bk w Lorna Doon, the Judge—Caller Ou,
January 27, 1879
J. C- Low’s r w Lubra, Salem Scudder—Lily, July 15,
1879
- f w Lurline, Salem Scudder—Lily, July 15,
J. Weir’s f w Wyudham, Barmby—Lassie, August 11,
1878
——- bk w Wild Oats, Haddington—Cutiy Sark,
i ebruury 7, 1070


r f Want’s f w Comely, Barmby—Lassie, August 4,
rt F Stephen’s bd Queen of the East, sportsman—
*■ jUsteru Princess, September 11,1878
ftiortmi’s iunr, lie w Sunbeam, Barmby—Lady of
the Lake, December. 1878
a p Mostyu’s ns bk w Lullu Rookb, Sportsman—Eas-
Princess, September 11, 1878
Maclean’s w f Marionette, Luke—Gipsy, October
A ’ .» 1878
ir M’Quade’s ns bk w Money, Forest Ranger—Amulet,
H ’ April- 1879
.— nsf w Make Haste, Forest Banger—Amu-
let, April, 1878
ns f or r w Misfire, Sportsman—Ada, Oc-
tober, 1879
ns be w Mademoiselle, Forest Banger-
Amulet, April, 1879
PIGEON SHOOTING.
We have received from Mr. W. R. Dawbarn the con-
ditions of a grand handicap pigeon sweepstakes, to be
shot off in Brisbane during the race week, and as the
prize is certain to be well worth winning, all those who
Intend paying Brisbane a visit at that time had better
better have a shy in for the sweepstakes.
Shooting at Goulburn.
On Saturday last several well-known Sydney knights
of the trigger paid a visit to Goulburn, and the follow-
ing scores tell the result of a big sweep, which
Messrs. L. Lord, H. Payten, and F. Gannon divided :
Grand Handicap Sweepstakes of 3 sovs. each ; open to
all comers ; 9 birds each. Handicap from 21 to 27
yards. 50 per cent, for Ist; 25 per cent, for 2nd;
and 10 per cent, for 3rd.
Mr. W. Davis, 25 yds 1101000 retired
Menken, 21 yds 0011000 retired
L. Lord, 27 yds 101111110 —7
W. Henry, 25 yds 110111100 —6
Schnkiell. 23 yds 101110000 —4
W. Hamilton, 27 yds 101110110 —6
Johnson, 24 yds 10001000 retired
Columbia, 21 yds 000010000 —1
Smith, 27 yds 101011110 —6
Weston, 23 yds 011010 retired
Scone, 25 yds 000001001 —2
A.. Badgery, 24 yds 101011011 —6
F. Gannon, 27 yds 110110111 —7
H. Payten, 27 yds 111101011 —7
H. Gordon, 24 yds 101001001 —4
J. V. Cooper, 27 yds 110111001 —6
K. C. Cooper, 23 yds 111010001 —5
Watkins, 21 yds 0000 retired
Two sweepstakes of £1 each were afterwards shot off,
Messrs Payten, H. Smith, Hamilton, and Davis dividing
the first, and Mr. ’Scone’ killing all his birds in the
second, won, leaving Messrs. Payten, Kelly, Henry,
Lord, Phillips, Badgery, Gannon, C. Cooper, V. Cooper,
and Smith, who tied for second money, to divide. We
have to mention that the birds provided were clippers,
and the shooting taken all through was good.
CRICKET.
The Australian cricketers arrived at Plymouth on May
3rd, all well. Their first match will be on the 17th inst.,
against 11 of Derbyshire.
A cricket match between the Derwent and
Excelsior clubs was played on Saturday at Forest
Lodge, the former winning by 7 runs, having totted up
47 against 40.
A one-day’s cricket match was played on
Saturday last, at the Association Ground, between the
Belvidere and Carlingford clubs. Matches of this de-
scription are invariably devoid of interest as they are
seldom played out or finished. It was so on the occa-
sion nnder notice, the Belvideres remaining at the
wickets all day, losing only six wickets for 342 runs.
Eichordson, 104 not out; Linderman, 103; and Martin
52 were the principal contributors.
Como v. Arundel. —This match was played at Cam-
perdown on Saturday last, the former winning by 83
runs—Cork), 90; Arundel, 7.
Glebe Strathmore v. Alma.— This game resulted in
a draw, time not allowing for an innings each. Alma,
70; Strathmore, seven wickets for 45.
WABWick v. Petersham. —Conclusions were tried
between theseclnbs on Saturday last at Petersham, but
a draw resulted when the game was much in favour of
the Petersham team. Scores, Petersham, 111 ; War-
wick, five wickets for 25.
Windsor v. Randwick— Played at Windsor. The
former won by 64 runs and three wickets. Scores,
Windsor, 69; Randwick, 5.
Ivanhoe v. Artillery —Played at the Victoria
Barracks, Sydney. -Won by Ivanhoe by 1 run, having
scored 55 against 56.
Wool-buyers v. Wool-sellers.— The annual match
was played on Tuesday last at the Association ground,
and the former won by 40 runs.
SOUTHERN RUGBY FOOTBALL UNION.
The annual meeting of the S.R.F. Union was held at
the Exchange Hotel on Monday evening last, Mr.
Calvert being in the chair. The report was adopted,
and the following office-bearers were elected:—Presi-
dent, Mr. J. J. Calvert; vice-presidents, Messrs. C. W.
Beal, H. Arnold, W. R. Burkitt, and E. J. Raper; audi-
tors, Messrs. Thompson and Mnllarkey. ,
48 HOURS' WALKING MATCH.
This long-distance walk between Edwards and Taylor
Is fast drawing near, and the second deposit is sup-
posed to have been placed in the hands of Mr. James
Punch. An announcement has been made of a six
days’ go-as-you-please contest, but we do not think,
even if well managed, it will prove an attraction.
PORRIDGE EATING MATCH.
The porridge-eating match between Browne and
Jemmy Newton, and which is to come off in the Guild
Hall on Tuesday next, for £lO a-side, is causing great
excitemem. Mr. H. Peate has been chosen umpire,
and from his well-known capabilities in the porridge-
eating line, the match ought to go off without a hitch.
THE NOBLE ART.
On Monday evening last Dave Ingram, the light weight
champion boxer of Australia was tendered a benefit at
ioley’s rooms, William Street. The hall was con-
veniently filled, and the evening’s entertainment, which
consisted of a well-selected programme, was good in the
extreme, the exhibition of science between L. Foley and
b av e Ingram, being quite equal to any thing hitherto
hero. Ingram has made a good name for himself,
and his friends showed their appreciation of him by
rolling up in good numbers.
SYDNEY AMATEUR ATHLETIC CLUB.
, ll* 6 Autumn Meeting of the Sydney Amateur Ath-
jeuc Club will take place to-day on the Association
i?ia ’ and the following entries have been made :
IUO Yards Flat Race.—C. B. Dawson, W. C. Bush,
L Arnhelm, E. P. Simpson, R. R. Eaton.
R ' Yards Plat Race.—W. R. Young, W. C. Rush, C.
im^ son ’ E - P- Simpson, C. T. Arnheim,
bnts Challenge Cup.—W. C. Bush (present
Young, C. T. Arnheim, E. P. Simpson,
stnr, *'l e Flat ftace.-T. W. Higgins, W. A. Black-
P to tV Sal Vey, D. D. Middleton, A. Bros, T. Powell,
VV . Baybs, R. H. Ellis.
marten too y ar ds Flat Race.-T. W. Garrett, R. R.
ounlop. W, R. Young, W. D. Mair, H. A. M’Qnade, C.
H w n 0I1 ’ -, G- E- Sidley, A. P. Phillips, J. B. O’Brien,
sdell > c - H - Williams, S. H. Fairland.
G S®, 120 Yards Hurdle Race.-H. A. M - Quade, A.
N erard ’ J. B. O’Brien,
aiacn Walking; one mile.—W. A. Blackstone, W.
wS Way L H- Mo 7 se > J- Oxley, F - C. Currey, C. H.
“p c a S£ iU ’ "• c“ter':B-Tiday’J-D-
-tvl Ch , 0 o 0ls ’Campion Half-Mile Flat Bace.-J. E. M‘ln-
Rittvl 1 J Sch ool), G. Martin do., W. Wilton do., W.
Penwini-?J J ’ W- Eberts do, B. W. Bowman do, A. F.
(W TfMKmg’s School), C. G. Wade do, H. A. M’Quade
T. nJ 1 ?? 1 ); J- Pye do. B. Hall do. W. C. Holmes
Martina t do> ,F Dawson (Newington Col.), H.
\V in d ?’ J-A-c °bb do.
Oxlev s W. Higgins, E. M. Bowman, J. O.
Stin F aii-laud.
H. A n r , s , ldo Yards Flat Race.—P. C. Fairland (H.
S. H lw*’ d- ® ull do, G. Miller do, A. G. Gerard do,
do, £ , d 4°, H. H. Gerard do. W. A. Blackstone
GeratdZ 0 ™ d ,°’ E- Lenthall do, F. E. Wickham do, A.
M. Bowman (University A. A.), W. J. G.
Mann do, F. P. Brennan do, J. Elphinstone do, P. J.
Keuna do.
High Jump. T. W. Higgins, S. F. Fairland, J. O.
Oxley, A. G. Gerard.
Bicycle Race: one mile (handicap).—J. Copland,
scratch, J. P. Russell, 50 yards, H. Patterson, jun., 80
yards, R. H. Owen, 95 yards, A. W. Crane, 100 yards,
F. W. Sharp, 105 yards, A. Ediriuton, 120 yards, F. Har-
rison, 160 yards, J. Patching, 175 yards.
MUSWELLBROOK RACES.
The following nominations have been made: —
Muswellbrook Handicap.— Rosanta, Master Avenal,
Pride, Starlight, Eureka, Idea, Echo, Councillor, Lord
John, Liberator, Cremorne, True Blue, Ella, Bulgaria,
Scribbler, Prairie Bird, Jester, Yellow Zillah, Nemo,
Avalanche, Black Swan, Benevolence, Rosebud, Lu-
cretia. Recherche.
Upper Hunter Handicap, — Rosanta, Goldspeck,
Maid of Australia, Zillah, Master Avenal, Liberator,
Nemo, Pride, Volunteer, Cremorne, Avalanche, Rob
Roy, True Blue. Black Swan, Eureka, Idea, Bulgaria,
Rosebud, Echo, Scribbler, Lucretia, Councillor, Gunild,
Prairie Bird, Recherche, Lord John, Jester.
Tattersall’s Stakes. Maid of Australia, Lady
Mary, Starlight, Benevolence, Lucretia, Ensign, Nemo,
Lady Clifden, Ella, Echo, Cameo, Firelight, Vanity,
Idea, Jauitress, Ivanhoe.
Ladies’ Mile Handicap. —Bismarck, Cremorne,
Vanity, True Blue, Bulgaria, Scribbler, Gunild, King-
fisher, Maid of Australia, Lady Mary, Avalanche, St.
Aubyns, Rosebud, Lucretia, Prairie Bird, Ivanhoe,
Nemo, Lady Chieftain, Rob Roy, Idea, Janitress,
Cameo, Lord John.
WILCANNIA ANNUAL RACES.
The following are the weights for the races to take
place on Friday and Saturday next: —
r,L TV
st lb
Mr, J. Pile’s bg Camel, aged 9 0
g g Fishhook, 5 yrs 8 11
A. Coimack’s hr in Mountain Maid, aged ... 8 10
W. Haimnat’s ch h Sunshine, 5 yrs 8 4
J. Pile’s b g Timberoo, aged 8 1
T. O’Leary’s b m Miss Angler, aged 8 0
J. Burgess’ br h East Lynne, aged 8 0
W. J. O’Connell’s g c Hawthorn (late To-
larno),3yrs 7 12
W. Brown’s g g Huntsman, aged 7 10
•L Pile’s b h Cuthero, 5 yrs 7 4
J. Burgess’ b m Gentle Annie, aged 7 2
C. Young's b m Wild Lady, 4 yrs 7 0
E. M’Gregor’s b g Cossack, 0 yrs ; 6 13
A. M’Neill’s b g Chieftain, 6 yrs 6 8
E. M’George’s b g Fisherman,"aged 6 6
W. Hammatt’s b g Poor Pat, 6 yrs 6 2
G. Miller’s b or br g Logic, 4 yrs 6 0
G. Hunt’s b g Eobiu Hood, 6 yrs 6 0
T. O’Leary's ch g General, 6 yrs 5 12
P. J. Flynn’s b m Nyanda, 4 yrs 5 10
Steeplechase (Parmer’s Cup.)
Cormack’s br g Try Again, aged 12 2
W. Hammatt’s b g Young Boss, 5 yrs 10 10
G. Miller’s br g Circassian, 5 yrs 10 10
J. Stokes’ bl h Nigel, aged ' 10 7
W. Hammett's dun g Snipe (late Brinong), 6
pars 10 4
Hurdle Eace.
J. Pile’s b g Camel, aged 12 4
E. M’George’s b g Cossack, 6 yrs 10 1
W. Brown’s hr g Monarque, aged 9 8
G. Miller’s br g Circassian, 5 yrs ... ... 9 7
J. Stokie’s bl h Nigel, aged t 9 4
A. Connack’s b g Count, 4 yrs 9 2
T. O’Leary’s ch g General, 6 yrs 9 2
W. Hammatt's dun g Snip (late Brinong), 6
yrs 9 1
Thomas Burke’s b g Loddon, 6 yrs 9 1
W. Brown’s b gHarkaway, aged 8 10
Steeplechase.
John Pile’s br g Timberoo, aged 12 10
A. Cormack’s br g Try Again, aged 11 5
W. Hammatt’s b g Young Boss, 5 yrs 10 2
W. Brown’s br g Monarque, aged 9 1,3
G. Miller’s br g Circassian, 5 yrs 9 12
J. Stokie’s bl h Nigel, aged 9 10
A. Cormack’s b g Count, 4 yrs 9 8
Thomas Burke’s b g Loddqn, 5 yrs 9 7
W. Brown’s b g Harkaway, aged 9 4
QUEENSLAND RACES.
The following are the acceptances and weights for the
principal handicaps:—
Moreton Handicap —Miles.
Orphan 8 8 | Zanco 6 13
King Cole 8 7 | Nun 6 13
Sydney ».. 8 6 | Chorister 6 40
Viscount 8 5 I Prospero 6 6
Olivia 8 5 Othello 5 11
The Barber 7 6 Decoy 5 9
War hawk) 7 0 |
Brisbane Cup—2 Miles.
Orphan 8 6 I The Barber 7 2
King Cole 8 5 | Warhawk 6 12
Sydney 8 4 I Zanco G 12
Olivia 8 2 1 The Earl 6 9
Major 7 6 | Othello 5 7
THE IPSWICH TURF CLUB MEETING.
The following acceptances have been made :
The Club Handicap. —Barber, Bail, Duchess, Sati-
rist, Othello, Olivia, Childers, Chorister, King Cole,
Orphan, Sunrise, Zanco, Warhawk, Sunset, Balthazar.
Turf Club Handicap.— Barber, Earl, Sydney, Olivia,
Othello, Warhawk, Decoy, King Cole, Orphan, Sunrise,
Sunset.
Ipswich Plate. —Eclipse, Othello, Childers, Canary,
Nabocklish.
WARWICK RACES.
(By Electric Telegraph from our own correspondent)
Ist Day—Tuesday.
Members Cup. —Galatea, 1.
Sires Produce Stakes.— Canary, 1 ; Childers, 2.
Warwick Handicap. —Theßarber, Bst2lb, lj Satirist,
Bst, 2 ; Orphan, Bst 61b, 3.
Seven started and the Barber won on the post bv a
head.
Seeling Race. —Velocity, 1; Snip, 2.
Flying Handicap.— Orphan, Bst 61b, 1 ; Sydney, Bst
121 b, 2. Won easily.
2nd Day—Wednesday.
Maiden Plate. —Galatea 1, Othello 2.
Selling Plate. —Velocity 1, Reindeer 2.
Turf Club Handicap.— Orphan, 8.4, 1; Barber, 8.5
(including 51bs. penalty) 2; Satirist, 7.12, 3. Won easily.
Time, 3 m. 45 s.
THE ADELAIDE CUP.
The following are the weights for the Cup to be run
for to-day (Saturday):—
Richmond 9 2 | Rivalry 7 7
Glenormiston 8 5 Mountaineer 7 7
Filibuster 8 0 Pawnbroker 7 4
Viceroy 710 First Water 7 2
Belladrum 7 8 Electricity. 7 0
For the Adelaide meeting, which takes place on Fri-
day the following scratchings have been made: —Symbol,
High Jinks, Red Iron and Express, all engagements.
Warloota, Meg Merrillies and Aurelia, for the South
Australian Stakes and Yeno for the Hurdle Race.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
The Brisbane cricketing season closes on 24th
May.
Larry Fcley has taken the Queen’s Theatre
Hotel.
It is proposed to establish h Jockey Club - at
Kempsey,
The Hon. John Lord is the new president of
the Tasmanian Racing Club.
The Garonne, with the Australian cricketers,
has arrived at Plymouth all well.
After this year the English Derby will be run
at Gravesend and not on Epsom Downs.
Two junior eights of the S.E.C. raced over the
champion course on Saturday. The crews were as
under:—(l) Messrs. Butcliart, Hurt, Sullivan, Shallon.
Peunyfather, Long, Moppett, and Bedford (stroke); and
Messrs. Francis, Melon, Wooluough, Cansdell, Zollner,
Thackeray, Bremer and Lea (stroke). The event was
well contested. Bedford’s crew, who showed the better
form, held a slight advantage up to Gladesville, where
Lea came with a rush and drew up level. However, the
spurt died away, and Bedford eventually won by three-
parts of a length.
Souther ton writes that the Australian
cricketers’ English prospects are good.
Blakeman and Thomas did not meet as antici-
pated last Saturday, the latter having forfeited.
A Match is proposed between the yachts
Secret and May Queen, to come off in Hobson’s*Bay,
Brisbane has now a football association. It
has four clubs—the Brisbane, Excelsior, Waratuh, and
West End.
Rumour hath it that Jim Punch is about to
retire from business, and that one of his brothers will
probably succeed him.
In a foot-race for £lO, distance 120 yards, run
in the Domain on Saturday last, J. Henderson beat W.
Penn by about 4 yards.
N Something like £l5O has been collected for
Nat Thompson, the well-known cricketer, and will be
handed to him in a few days.
The race for the Two Thousand Guineas
Stakes, at Newmarket Spring Meeting, resulted thus
Petronel, 1; Munchaster, 2; The Abbott, 3.
Alexander Burns backs himself (on paper) to
eat porridge against-one Denny Maguire. J. E. Kitts
is willing to eat bananas or smoked fish against either
or both of them.
Callaghan has challenged Dean of Wagga
Wagga to run 150 yards at Maitland for £lOO a-side.
Dean replies that he will accept the challenge, to run in
Parrramatta or Wagga Wagga.
Wade beat O’Grady in a jumping match at
Campbelltown on Saturday last for .CIO a-side. The
conditions were three standing jumps. The winner
covered 34ft. 6iu., and the loser 34ft. 3in.
The much-tulked-of handball handicap match
between Langan and Dillon for £5O aside came off on
Saturday last in the court at the rear of the Rising Sun
Hotel, Elizabeth-street, Dillon winning by five points
to two.
Duncan the pedestrian has issued a challenge—
£loo a side—to walk Baker in Brisbane a 24 hours go-as-
you-please. Baker won a similar match at the Brisbane
Exhibition Building. He is now in Sydney, but lias
been communicated with.
The coursing match which was to have taken
place at Hexham on Saturday between Durham’s Luna
and Anderson's Harbinger fell through. The owner of
the dog Harbinger had to forfeit the deposit of £5
owing to an accident which happened to Harbinger a
few days before the match.
At the Christchurch races a knowing one was
in a hurry to put a £1 note on Mata in the Epsom
Stakes. Foul Play.Le Lonp and Fishhook were scratched
and Mata walked over. No one else invested and the
smart man received his own money less ten per cent.
He put 20s. into the totalisator and took out 18s.
A Champion challenge cup is to bo sailed for at
Brisbane next Boxing Day. It is to be of the value of
at least £5O. The construction of several new boats for
the event has already commenced. W. G. Blackmore,
who built the (locally) famous Artemus Ward, has laid
the keel of another which he will call the Keilawarra.
The N.S.W. Eight Imre sent an elegant locket
to Mr. J. A. Levey, hou. secretary of the Victorian
'Rowing Association, as a slight recognition of the kind-
ness received at his hands during their recent Mel-
bourne visit. The Eight also express themselves as
under deep obligations to Mr. Arthur C. Nicholls and
other hospitable Melbourne gentlemen.
The annual meeting of the Southern Rugby
Football Union, which now comprises no less than 26
clubs, was held on Monday night at the Exchange.
The report submitted was in every way satisfactory.
The following office-bearers were elected;—President,
Mr. J. J. Calvert; vice-presidents, Messrs. E. A. Arnold,
W. E. F. Burkitt, E. J. Raper, and C. W. Beal; auditors,
Messrs. Thompson and Mullarkey.
The second hand-ball match between Pattison
and Alderson for £3O a-side, took place on Saturday last
at Lambton, in the presence of about 500 persons. The
game was 41 points, and Pattison was again successful,
winning the game by three points, after one of the meat
exciting contests ever witnessed in the district, those
present expressing their opinion that it was doubtful if
a grander exhibition of hand-bull had ever been seen in
the colonies. The winner, Pattison, has never yet
suffered a defeat, having now won eight mutches in
succession.
An ice programme . Says an American paper—
“Hanlan is having a machine built in which he will be
able to ‘ row ’ on the ice, and the Canadian * expects ’
that a mile in three min. will be the rate of speed at
which the craft can be propelled. It is also said that
he will revisit England during the summer, and settle
Elliott or Boyd, and journey to the Antipodes, and ab-
squatulate Trickett, and like Alexander,having no more
worlds to conquer, will retire to his homestead at
Toronto.” However, Hanlan’s not a good correspon-
dent, all the same.
DRAMATIC AND MUSICAL REVIEW.
“For I am nothing if not critical.”
—“ Othello."
Notices to Managers, Entrepreneurs, etc.
Managers desirous of having their Concerts or other
Entertainments noticed in The Bulletin are re-
quested to forward to The Bulletin office the usual
complimentary cards of admission.
To Members of the Musical and Dramatic
Professions.
We shall at all times bo glad to receive communica-
tions from the members of the two professions in the
various colonies as to their whereabouts, their successes,
their business engagements, and other points that may
be of personal as well as general interest.
VICTORIA THEATRE.
* New Babylon ’ —intended as a paraphrase on Babylon
of !old under its modem guise of ‘ London ’ —with its
varied .scones, sensational incidents, its details of the
crimes, the vices, and the virtues of the great city, its
excellent acting, has now its settled stream of visitors,
nightly, so that the management may be relieved of the
necessity of finding a successor to it for some time to
come. Now is the opportunity afforded, therefore, of
devoting ample time to the * get-up' and rehearsal of
new pieces, so that we need not see, as is too often the
case at our theatres, pieces rushed before an audience
simply from want of time for proper preparation owing
to the requirements of a constant change.
Repetition of ‘ New Babylon ’ night after night has
produced a smoothness in the working which renders
the performance all the more agreeable to the audience.
There is nothing we can suggest by way of improve-
ment in the acting of Miss Julia Merton as the outcast
wife of Maltby, or Miss Myra Kemble in the two cha-
racters of Eunice Eaiharez and Belle Lorimer, a ‘ soiled
dove ’of the Formosa type. Miss Merton gives a most
correct picture of the difficult character she represents.
From the expressions she uses when in a state of
maudlin inebriety, and her anxiety to show that she
* was a lady once,’ it is easy to see that Mrs. Maltby has
never been really a lady? though she may have ridden
in a carriage; and whenever she comes on the scone
Miss Merton makes her appear as the sneering, heart-
less, reckless being she had become. The tattered
make-up is excellent; overdrawn by the ‘ slightest
shade the character would instantly become a mark
for the shafts of the gods, and ridicule would at once
spoil the effect. But Miss Merton shows the
greatest care and good judgment, hence the unequivocal
success of the assumption.
Miss Myra Kemble has evidently studied to give
effect to the two opposite characters she has to depict
in alternate scenes. This is very marked and apparent
in the two encounters; in the first, as Eunice, it is the
struggle of terrified gentleness, nerved to desperation
by the attack of the man she knows to be a villain ; in
the second it is the defence of a fury suddenly attacked
by a ruffian of whom she knows nothing, and determined
to sell her life dearly. This, coming Immediately after
the pathetic scene with the dying jockey, forms a fine
contrast: another is that between mother and daughter
played by the two ladies mentioned with great dramatic
effect.
We shall content ourselves on this occasion with the
analysis of these two characters, as we shall have abun-
dant opportunity of again referring to the drama.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
The groat sensation that has been for two mouths in
preparation—that agitated all Paris on its performance
at L’Ambigu Theatre, and is still continuing to attract
all London to the Princess’s—was at length produced
hero on Monday evening to a crowded house. Emile
Zola is a powerful modern French novelist who delights
in depicting the vices and crimes of the lower orders in
Prance m the most glowing colours, possibly without
the desire of making any moral deduction. In’L’As-
sommoir’—the name of a cafe ct restaurant mu si calc ei.
dansanie as frequented by the lower orders, as well as the
word for the vice itself—these traits of character are de-
picted m more brilliant coloursthan usual; and in Charles
Keade’s English version of the dramatisation —under
the title of ‘ Drink ’ —the vice of intemperance is repre-
sented with a glare so intensely appalling and horrible
—rendered more so in this instance by the powerful
acting of Mr. Dumpier—that it is simply a question
how much human nature can endure to witness such
scenes, and how far good taste will even encourage the
endurance. All the elements of the situations are
purely realistic, and sensational only from a purely
realistic point of view; excepting the last scene, there
is nothing out-of-the-way which might not —nay, does
not—occur daily; there are none of those far-fetched
impossibilities which make up the principal por-
tions of the dramas of the Boncicaultian or
sensational school. Consequently we have no
grand finales of virtue triumphing and vice de-
feated—except at the end, by a double murder in the
open streets. Wo have, therefore, to go through a
series of most harrowing and exciting scenes to arrive
at not even a doubtful moral in the end. If we ask
psychological analysts whether in their experience one
drunkard has been reclaimed by witnessing the horrors
of delirium tremens, they will unhesitatingly answer is
the negative; the love of drink once implanted is not
likely to be eradicated by a sight of its effects on
others ; each drunkard thinks himself strong enough
to resist temptation until the temptation attacks him,
because it is only the weak-minded who give way to its
influence. If the theatre could be filled with inebriates
or weak-minded people, there might even contrary
to the experience of philosophy—be some merit in dis-
playing these terrors with a view to reformation or
prevention. Here, people are generally too well off to
be intimidated by the influence of ‘ shocking examples.'
The drunkards who join the cause of temperance usually
break ont at certain intervals; there are well known
clergymen, barristers and respectable citizens who give
way to this terrible vice—who see examples round them
daily and yet cannot bo cured. The real disciples of
Father Matthew are those who are temperate by habit
and the force of will. But amongst the working classes
ns well as other ranks of society, there are those who
dislike being ‘ preached to ’ by moans of such pictures
as an imputation on their common sense, knowing their
ability to retrain from the pernicious practice. Wo know
that the theory has long since exploded that murder is
prevented by public executions; in the same way it.
may be maintained that intoxication will never be pre-
vented by the public exhibition of its mischievous re-
sults or of the horrors of delirium tromeus.
Whilst expressing these opinions as to the utility
of a drama like ‘ Drink,’ we have no hesita-
tion in saying that in spite of many incongruities
which may be easily pointed out in the drama,
taken from some of the scenes of the highly-flavoured
and brightly-coloured novel, the piece is very powerful in
some of its situations, though the interest in these is
solely maintained by scenic effects. There is nothing
especially exciting in a man leaving his wife to starve,
in another falling from a scaffold, another lying amidst
the horrors of delirium jiroduccd by drink, or a
woman begging in the streets amidst'a snow-storm.
These are matters of daily occurrence; and we venture
to say that bat for the excellent way in which the piece
is put on the stage (an excellence that may bo improved
by condensing the performance by at least half an hour),
were it not for the scenic effects the play would be a
failure. The language is very simple and com monplace;
very naturally so, since the action concerns only work-
ing people in their daily life who would not be likely to
talk inflated bathos. But there is really little or no
plot or story in the piece, and what there is does not
centre in the main character, Coupeau, a plumber
(Mr. Dampier), except that his weakness and
partiality for drink are used as instruments
by two abominable wretches, Lantier, a journey-
man hatter (Mr. H. Sefton), and La Grande
Virginio (Mrs. Holloway), for the persecution of
Gervaise, a poor laundress, the wife of the drunkard.
Coupeau (Miss Kate Douglas), whom they both had
already inj ured so much. In this there is no retributive
justice. The other incidents of the piece are equally
incompatible with this episode ; for Lantier, who had
previously been the beloved but drunken husband of
Gervaise, and had left her to starve in order to ‘ take
up* with Virginia, but is subsequently supposed to be
dead, returns to claim a wife whom ho had detested
(but is proved to have had another wife previous to his
marriage with Gervaise), and Virginio has married a
respectable man, but hates Gervaise only for having
worsted her in a quarrel at the public wash-houses.
Such are the materials of the play, with some ad-
ditional characters; the principal are Couget, the
temperance workman and apostle (Mr. E. Holloway),
Phoebe, a good-hearted caW—chautant singer (Miss Alice
Deorwyn), and Nana, Coupeau’s child, an astonishing
little doll impersonated by Rose Dampier.
Mr. Dampier’s actiugand make-up are wonderfully rea
and terrible: except in the dinner scene when he is playing
with little Nana, he is not for a moment the Mr. Dampier
of any other play; and in the Inst act it is'to a nature not
in accord with such scenes positively a torture te see the
reality of the scenes depicted. The frequent rehearsal
has made all the other representatives easy and more
jierfect in their resjiective parts, which present no
actual difficulty.
The scenes are capitally painted and arranged, the
interiors boxed in and having an air of reality : the
exterior of ‘L’Assommoir,’ and the street scaffolding
(whence Coupeau unwarned by the brutal Virginie falls
into the street below) are very naturally put together;
and the final street scene amidst the snow-storm, with its
long perspective of lighted houses and the square in
front present quite an artistic arrangement. The front
scenes are also well painted.
THEATRE ROYAL.
Want of space must be our excuse for not again refer-
ring to ‘ Blow for Blow,' now being performed at the
Theattre Royal, of which, however, wo gave a notice last
week.
HENRI KETTEN, THE EXTRAORDINARY
HUNGARIAN PIANIST.
Whispered sounds of music are heard’once more
echoing through the air borne on the breeze from the
ocean. Henri Ketten, the greatest living pianist, is
within a few hours distance of our shores; and the void
that has been reigning in Euterpe’s halls since the de-
parture of Patti and Urao and their respective atten-
dant priests and priestesses will bo filled by the re-
markable music of M. Henri Ketten, Parisian by musi-
cal education, Hungarian by birth. Those who are
readers of journalistic literature of the older worlds
know that those worlds have been for some years
astounded by the wondrous playing of this ‘ child of
inspiration,’ (as he was called by ‘Azevado,’ the great
Parisian critic), who, before ho was six years of age,
played Beethoven’s trio in E flat, and a year later gave
his first concert at which he interpreted with full
orchestral accompaniment Hummel’s Concerto in G.
Since then he has become one of the wonders of the
musical world and to his career we may well devote a
space in our next issue.
M. JULES MEILHAN’S CONCERT.
Musical readers will—as well for the love of the art
itself as for the kindly sympathy with a suffering artist
of high repute—not forget that the farewell concert of
the distinguished pianist and teacher, M. Jules
Meilhan, will take place at the Masonic Hall on Wed-
nesday evening next. Many of our best reputed artists
will give their kindly aid to their confrere,amongst others
Signor Giorza and'Mdlle Marie St. Clair (now a recog-
nised necessity at every good concert): and as a valuable
musical programme has been arranged, let us hope that
the cognoscenti of Sydney will do themselves and the
artist honour by their presence on the occasion.
CRITIC.


A Dish of Trifle.
VIII.
(COOKED FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Turn it Round. —The Government have on
their hands a number of revolvers. These latter
are too unwioldly the Police or Permanent Forces.
Indeed, it will be difficult to utilize them. Those
revolvers are tho Garden Palace turnstiles.
Cloudy. —lt is reported that the Australian
Blondin intends making a balloon ascent from this
city. It will strange if he gets up and never
returns. Ho will, in that case, be an airy-naught.
However, lie will have a companion—a great swell
with no visible moans of support.
Not the best Thing out. — Shopman : ‘ We
liavo some nice things in China. ’ Customer:
‘China! Ah, then I’ll call when they arrive. Of
course you’ll advertise in The Bulletin.”
They were ode for— 1
I love the woodlands, gay with flowers fair,
I love to hear the lute’s
Low sweet music steal thro’ the even’ air—
But I hate these tight hoots.
Sailed. —Old Tarmai-6 of Dillybaggia Station
has used kerosene to help to kindle his fire for the
last twelve years. But last week the can was too
full of oil, and ho of passion and liquor. Ire up !
His successor eschews mineral oils.
How to do it.- —There is a humorous work
put —“ How to take Life Easy ” (American). It
is published at two shillings. You can do it for
threepence and select your chemist and poison,
too.
Looking Round. —Anderson’s dis-pnrse-ing
the cafe keepers. Victorian Statecraft, Cerberus :
She’s on Service. Austral Nutcrackers —Nullah-
Nullahs. Two very dry subjects —the Queensland
mummies. A man that's kept to the point — The
Bulletin artist. Neiv Babylon is a a verv
moving piece—as regards scenery. Would it pay ?
Most tobacconists invite their patrons to “ cut
tobacco.” Much looked-for spirit wrappers —the
notes round the Schnapps bottles. How to get up
in the ivorld —take the first train to the mountains,
Gondimental : “ After meat, &c.”—Last month
the volunteers were all mustered, Oaxly —lt was
not 42n8 that KG stood for K 9 in last issue. The
favourite pub. of the C. 8— Public Holiday. Queer
place for a monetary transaction—the managers of
tho four city theatres meet their hills on fences.
The hotel-keepers say them business will not be “ a
hand-to-mouth one—lt was that all along. Head
waiters —Mountcastle’s stock. /
Trifling. —‘ ‘Lanfre,” although he has coqlced
his last ‘ ’ Dish of Trifle, ’ has not yet wagged out
of existence. So his friends can reserWrheir
t iwiishment.
LANFRE.
BRIEF MENTION.
Dauvid has Joined tho Good Tipplers.
Williams and Bennett are still alive.
Hanley Bennett says The Bulletin’s mad.
They’re going to “execute” another Alfred.
One law for the black and another for the
white.
“Justice, what crimes are committed in thy
name!”
Berry’s sisters and cousins and aunts are going
out to Service.
A Moscow-ardly thing.—The attempt on tho
life of the Czar.
Here is winter. We have chilblains and tho
street-organs have asthma.
’Gus Wangenheim says it’s impossible to get
intoxicated on lager beer. Of course he only speaks
for himself and for his own heavenly brand nis
‘ sbeziallittee.’
At Charters Towers the newspaper men never
write prose. It’s all poetry.
Ninian Melville says he’s going to ‘stonewall.’
More likely he’ll get a brickbat.
John Hurley bets that the snake’s not born
which could kill John M’Elhone.
The closed cafes are to he turned into Coffee
Palaces. Coffee-royal, you know.
Did you ever see a bald-headed woman ? —lf
so, you saw one who used to think.
The negotiations between Henry Kendall and
Phil. M'Carroll have fallen through.
“ Safe in the arms of a bailiff,” says tho pro-
prietor of the Tamwobth Observer.
Lord Augustus Loftus’ recently imported liens
are expected to lay well. ‘ His Eggs-selliug-cy.’
A medical man is wanted at Copeland North
but undertakers are in demand at the Barrington.
Lodgers the hotels not far from our olfico
complain after King-i,treat is cleared of rowdies
late at night, the policemen on duty speak so loud that
it is impossible for anyone to sleep.
It is alleged that the editor of the Dunedin
Echo isn't free from cant. But what’s in a name ?
Mr. Justice Williams, of Dunedin, alluded to a
detective, during Butler’s trial, as ‘that gentleman.”
Another hair-straightening snake-story, also a
blood-curdling alligator tale, in the Cairns Advertiser.
There’s only one street in Cairns, North
Queensland —Abbott-street —and even that's next to
nun.
Who was the officer in the Supreme Court who
signed his own official death-warrant p—The man of
honour.
Hanley Bennett, it is rumoured, will be created
a poundlteeper in recognition of his distinguished
services.
A Sunday-school lesson. —A bad little boy who
‘ played the wag ’ from a Sandhurst school was thrashed
with a hair-brush by his good kind mother when ha got
home. He only purchased forgiveness when he showed
the angelic creature who once rocked him on her gentle
breast a 250 z. nugget -which he had. picked up in the
course of his unhallowed vagabondage. * The way of
the evil-doer is hard.’
The anti-Chinese agitators have a good cause,
hut it’s a pity that it should he entrusted to Ninian
Melville.
Chinamen are about to establish a boot factory
at Parramatta. They’ll make the boots which will kick
them out.
Elopement in high life.—The lady critic has
gone to Melbourne. Japanese Tommy looks black and
sorrowful.
Should Berry ever again drive the Victorian
State-coach how pitilessly will he scourge all cattle of
the Service brand!
As usual, the Herald follows tho stronger
side. It apologises for the approaching execution of
the Dnbbo aboriginal.
Ninny Melville wants a billet— that’s clear.
Why not make him Government dentist ? He has been
all his life on the stump!
Oily’s best point was his silenee about Ninny
Melville’s truth and morality when ' crape and weepers’
opposed him for East Sydney.
The old town pump of Balmain, which has Just
beep hoarded up, is known ns (Alderman) Taylor’s
monument. Because it’s ugly.
L’Assommoir. — (10 p.vn.) : ‘ Will you have
some more ?’ (11 p.m.) : ‘ W’ll y’havo some more ?’
(Midnight) : ‘L’ves’mo ?’
It’s said that the Daily Twaddlegbaph is
providing sumptuous refreshment rooms for its report-
ing staff at Parliament Houses.
John Hurley wants only intelligent and edu-
cated men on the Bench as J’s.P. In saying this, isn’t
he biting his nose to spite his face ?
Question for the health authorities. —Is it a
fact that Chinamen are using the debris of the old
Infirmary to build houses in Pitt-street ?
We are busy with the obituary of David
Buchanan. Up to the present time, however, we’ve
been unable to ascertain where he came from.
It is aVomarkablo coincidence that the waiting-
rooms of tlie new steamers’ jetties at Circular Quay were
comiumouced simultaneously with the laying of the
foundation stone of the Sydney International Exhibi-
tion. It is fully expected they will be completed before
the piles underneath become rotten.
Says the Cooma Express;—‘ln the para-
graph relating to the age of the late Mr. , the word
‘ centenarian ’ was inadvertently spelt ‘ centurion.’
One of the dramatic critics who witnessed the
first production of ‘ Drink ’ was so affected that he had
to be led out of the theatre into the refreshment bar.
The Bulletin’s motto.— ‘ If you would be
pungent be brief; for it is with words as with sunbeams
—the more they are condensed the deeper they burn.’
Memo, for Sabbatarians. —Mr. Robertson,
Superintendent of Waterworks, and about twenty men,
were at work in Pitt-streot until five o’clock last Sun-
day morning.
A case which is but the preliminary of another
sensational divorce suit was commenced at the Water
Police Court on Wednesday last and will be continued
to-day (Saturday.)
A candidate for one of the recently-filled
municipal appointments got seventeen distinct pro-
inises of support from as many aldermen. Of course he
didn't get a billet.
The Hay Standard is a wise ami moral paper.
Some young' wags have been altering the positions of
local signboards. Says the Standard :—‘ This practice
may lead to the gallows.’
An Evening News telegram says that ‘an
exact copy of The Bulletin is going to be started in
Melbourne. Probably— so far as everything but the
reading matter’s concerned.
It is rumoured that Mr. J. S. Parnell is going
to start a bank, and is about to apply to the Govern-
ment for a fair share of thoir deposits in other banks.
The Hon. James means ‘ biz.’
Mr. Angus Cameron denies that he went to
Newcastle to assist Niuian Melville. He only went to
visit a sick friend. Now Niuian, fortunately, is not sick.
Some Sydney people are, though.
We have found out the name of the Chinaman
who tried to upset the tramway with his cart on Satur-
day. It is Hang Hi Long. He says he knows Mr.
Bibbs well, but he asked us not to say so.
‘ A lady help open to engagement. An objec-
tion to low menial work,’ says an advertisement in a
Melbourne paper.’ A lady with grown-up sous remarks
that some of these ‘ lady helps ’ entertain Hy-menial
aspirations.
Says the Wide Bay News, while trying to
bolster up a little mining swindle: —‘Our correspon-
dent, on whom we can rely, has seen the prospects,
washed himself, and is perfectly satisfied that it is a
good thing.’
Our senior morning contemporary states that
statistics show telegraph operators to be peculiarly
liable to consumption. Strange that, the restaurant
keepers of Sydney should so long have been of the
same opinion.
Contrasts are charming. Two consecutive
names of passengers ITy the City of Adelaide, which ar-
rived in Sydney on Sunday last, were Philomela Stetfano
and Mary Jones. The nightingale fluttered as Mary
heaved a gentle sigh.
The blind black beggar who stands in Park-
street has been taking music-lessons from the blind 1
white man who sits at Hyde Park steps. The former
now owns a violin, and plays ‘ Love's young dream * and
■ O how delightful!’ Just so.
The Daily Tell-a-ceam, in reporting the
death of a man in the Infirmary says:—‘ He was not
able to swallow the prescriptions !’ Bid the doctor try
an internal paper euro ? If so, will chewing a column
of the Tell-a-cram act as a poison ?
* Five publicans of Newtown,’ says the
Suburban Telegraph, ‘ have sensibly determined to
have their houses ojieu as little as possible on Sundays,
and last Sabbath the hotels of Messrs. Goodin, Meek,
Webster, Harris and Rodgers were open only from I
o’clock until 3.’ How does the editor of the S. T. know
this ?
Berry’s newspaper will, it is, said, champion
the cause of the ‘Extreme Left.’ In New Orleans be-
fore the war, writes a correspondent, it used to take
three men to start a paper—one to die of yellow
fever, one to get killed in a duel, and one to go to gaol.
Eastern market demagogues talk fiercely, hut only read
borrowed or stolen papers.
The Twaddlegraph says that Mr. White (of
the Keedbeds, Adelaide) goes to New Guinea in the
yacht Elsie, and hopes to procure ‘ some rare specimens
of the Bird of Paradise of the Poda variety (having no
feet).’ We always thought that naturalists had ex-
ploded the ‘no feet ’ theory long ago. Of course we're
aware that there is a bird in Sydney that has has no
head. It roosts at the corner of York and Barrack-
streets.
The owner of a large mansion, shoddily fur-
nished, has done his level best to get the Government
to buy his white elephant. First he olfered.it as a resi-
dence for the Governor, then rushed to—shall we say
the other extreme ? —to convert it into a lunatic asylum.
Now he submits it as a recreation palace for long-
sentenced prisoners, or an Art Gallery—the pictures in
the building to be the nucleus of a collection of originals
by old masters. Is the Government iran-cuted in taking
a holt of it ? The rabbits wouldn’t burrow deep enough
for coal, so Tommy tried to borrow Coghlan’s diamond
drill, free gracious!
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Parnell is a Protestant.
Mrs. Macpherson is cooking in Brisbane.
George Coppin is (31 years old and was born on
the same day as the Queen.
Major Martin, the capturer of Cetewayo, is dy-
ing of fever at Mantzburgh.
‘ Philip Dale’ is writing another poem (‘ Lady
Lilian’; lor the Australian.
Goodall, of London, the playing-card manu-
facturer, is on a visit to Victoria.
Nice. —Mr. F. Sutton, M.H.R. for Napier, N.Z.,
is known as ‘ The Unsavory One.’
Judge Blake, of Queensland, still takes bis
accustomed nap on the judicial Bench.
The liabilities of Ebcnezer Ward, of South
Australia, now insolvent, are about £'20,000.
The fugitive pieces of J. Brunton Stephens
have been collected and published in one volume.
The Premier of Queensland has imported his
cousin, a pressman, to write him up in the papers.
It is rumoured that there is to be a change in
the editorship of one of the Sydney morning dailies.
Morton Tavares, the actor, has started a parcel
delivery Co, in Brisbane. Miss Surtees is the ‘ Co.'
Tom Slattery has (happy augury !) commenced
practice in the office first occupied by Sir James Martin.
Professor , of Melbourne, is engaged
to be married to the daughter of a Sydney musical
critic.
One of the Mormon Elders lately here was an
expelled Freemason, the next an Atheist, and the third
a fraud.
Flood, who is mentioned in Sullivan’s * New
Ireland,' is a pressman engaged on the Brisbane
Courier.
John Oxford, who shot at the Queen in
Hyde Bark 40 years ago, is in gaol at Melbourne for
vagrancy.
A subscription is being raised in Brisbane for
Flood, who acted as secretary to the Irish Famine
Relief Fund.
Mr. Tomkinson, late manager at Adelaide for
the Bank of Australasia, has been granted a pension of
£9OO per annum.
Mr. D. M‘l)ohald, of Hamilton, Victoria, is
in his 105th year, but is as healthy as ever. His wife has
just died at a good old age.
The people of Brisbane have been unprece-
dentedly sober lately. They are awaiting the arrival
of their two million loan.
The Brisbane local elegants are now rather
chary of running up tailor’s bills ; the official assignee
not being so obliging as the snip.
MTlwraith, the Premier of Queensland, still
remains in England throughimportant business. Well
informed ladies say it’s a sohand heir.
It is reported that Mr. Charters, Warden at
Charters Towers, is either to be dismissed or removed.
The Government is jealous of his dairy.
Harry Lemon, second son of the great Mark
Lemon, of London Punch, is in Sydney. Things are
not bright with him but are looking up).
Sub-inspector Nowlan has been transferred
from Townsville to Brisbane. Mr. Nowlan Las been
PEN-AND-INK SKETCHES.
BY QUIZ.
(Written for THE BULLETIN.)
XI. —THE GIRL OF THE PERIOD.
How shall I describe her, iu what colors paint her,
when she herself uses the tinting brush so skilfully ?
Shall I be color-blind and say the roses on her cheeks
are not borrowed; that the bright vermilHon tint on
her lips—which, like a freshly painted door, proclaim
just as plainly without the aid of printed placard, ‘ wet
paint,’ and whose doubtful color effectually stops rash
wooers from stealing a kiss—is natural; or tliat those
pearly arms and shoulders so liberally displayed under
the gas-light are guiltless of glycerine and powder, even
when I see the white brand left on their partners’ black
coat ? Shall I fail to see that all that mass of hair
resembling tow iu color and often in texture, is such ns
heaven made it and not the result of he barber’s cos-
metiques; or that the gold dust powdered over it is
merely the reflection of the sun or gas-light on daintily-
brushed hair P Shall I shut my eyes to the fact that
their dresses are a little too tight everywhere—that
they cau neither breathe, run, walk or laugh with
perfect ease ? Or shall I agree with fashion and say
that their feet only look crippled in their preposterously
high-heeled shoes and are not really injured thereby?
Eve, when she looked in nature’s mirror, discovered to
her amazement that she required clothing; * but girls
of the period,’ althSTTgh in other respects veritable
daughters of Eve, look in the glass to see how little
they cau wear and how much they may with impunity
cast aside. To be classic is their ambition—not in
mind, fax from it—but in form. They willingly outrage
nature rather than outrage fashion, so that although
they can neither sit nor stoop with any appearance of
ease, their dresses must still ho of the regulation
tightness. The hats of the ‘period’ are not all so
classical as the dresses, except perhaps the Minerva
helmet worn by so many and suiting so few. ‘ The girl
of the Period’ is charmingly independent and alarm-
ingly confiding. She can ride, drive, pull stroke oar in
her brother’s or cousin’s boat, knows all the technical
phrases for each different sport and uses thorn freely;
ean describe in graphic language the points, good and
bad, of a horse. Her laugh is a little loud and her
tongue rattles away on every conceivable subject where
it is all matter, not mud. She ‘ does the block ’
systematically—it is a port of her education, for your
girl of the period learns most of her lessons on the pavA
She has not been many minutes on the * block ’ before
she creates a visible one. As her bans camarades gather
round her, to all of whom she dispenses smiles, she is
fast or slow, as suits her best. Sometimes sjie assumes
the role of the young ‘ Ingeim; ’ [at others she is
boisterous,’ interlards her conversation with plenty of
colonial slang, chaffs her would-be wooers, for she is
seldom, if ever, engaged. She has lovers twenty at a time.
Making love is such fun, but a real bdna-flde engagement
would be awfully slow. Marriage to her is au unknown
sea full of troubles in which she always seems to see
breakers ahead that warn her to stay where she is and
as she is. True, your girl of the period can sing and
play, often very well; hut she knows no language save
her mother tongue and that very indifferently. She is
desperately fond of ices and cakes, but if asked to make
a pudding would have to confess her utter ignorance of
any domestic matters, aucl although proud to show her
pretty feet and ankles in their becoming many-colored
stockings, could not dam them to save her life or
reputation. However, she cau dance anything, from
the ‘cau-cau’ to the ‘cotillion,’ has read before she
is sixteen all the trashy novels of the period, doats on
Miss Braddon, fancies it must be awfully jolly to rim
away with a groom—thinks she will try it with one of
hoc father’s jockeys. But the whim is evanescent. Your
girl of the period in many ways would scarcely suit even
a jockey. Fashion changes so frequently that iu the gen-
eral jumble the girl of the period changes too —iu fact gets
mixed and lost. She is like the waves on the sea shore,
always coming, always going, and where she Anally goes
is about as difficult to solve ns where the waves come
from or go to, or ‘ where the postboys go when they’re
old.’
MR. L’ESTRANGE, THE AUSTRALIAN AERONAUT.
“MY GRANDFATHER’S CLOCK.”


from fever, and is not yet able to do duty,
drinks porter, and his whiskers weep as usual.
ou e of the smartest of northern offices.
Tolui Bovd Phillipson, many years ago law rc-
" of the S. C. and lately an inmate of the Ine-
ate Retreat, has died in Melbourne Hospital
Tames Mirams, M.L.A., is to be business irmna-
" f Berry’s new daily. Mirams is very much like
p> owre i n appearance and otherwise.
, Vagabond’ is engaged on the staff of the
-ific Weekly. His ‘Circular Notes,’ published in
ournals in the colonies, have been a success.
The late Brisbane fashionable tailoring firm of
„ , r Phillips having gone insolvent, has sprung from
jheashes in it he name of his old partner, Woodcock.
Mr. G. R- Dibbs went to the Mayor’s Return
nail as the Fifth Judge. Good for George! He knew
Dibbses’ law business alone demanded the appoint-
Miss Rose Samper, the accomplished daughter
. k e ex .Muyor of Cooktown, won first prize at Hawkes-
show for a crayon drawing—the subject being
jabiii®*
In Melbourne the other day a Jewish Rabbi as-
nlted a co-religionist. The aggrieved one took out a
for assault and battery. The affair was com-
promised.
Mackay’s Telephone is to be the name of
weekly paper to be started shortly in Brisbane. It
till be run by Murdoch Mackay, late editor of the
iCStBALIAN.
‘Pramingo’ has written six columns in the
ArrtKSLANDER on ‘ The Ovster’ without once men-
tioning the word bivalve. This is considered an extra-
ordinary feat.
Judge Windeyer gave a Bar dinner at Donili-
in it is said, invited neither Mr. G. B. Simpson
j o r Mr. Townsend Macdermott, who were staying at
mother hotel.
Steve Byrne, late machinist of the Courier
office, keeps' the Queen’s Hotel, Brisbane. He’s a right
rood' landlord, too. His is the chief theatrical and
/porting house.
Laurence, who shot Mr. Einlayson and who is
k. o w store-clerk iu Pentridgo prison, says that the whole
»»iiir is still a blank to him, and speaks of it with the
bitterest regret.
>£r. Sam Hawkins, ‘ boss ’ of the S. C.
Express, has done with Wagga and its festivities for a
jgison. He is about to cultivate matrimony with the
widow of a judge.
T)r. Reid, of Geelong, one of the leading
Victorian surgeons, has quarrelled with the committee
of the local hospital, which has now lost the benefit of
bis valuable services.
“Atticus” in The Leader, slates David
Blair weekly, and David, who at present has not at his
command the columns of a Melbourne journal is obliged
to resort to pamphlets
In proposing Mr. Ninian Melville for East
Sydney, Mr. Horan said —Gintlemen, I honld iu my
bind three medals, wou by Mr. Melville’s great-grand-
father at the battle of Baredooes.’
The Queensland Government whip is lost; and
where, oh where, has he gone ? The Ministry know
not, and they can scarcely ask the Opposition whip to
do his work; not but that Mestou would readily under-
take it.
Joseph Wells, lately hanged for the Cunna-
jnulla affair, indicated his presence at a spiritualistic
seance held in Brisbane the other night. He evidently
has not reformed, judging by the company he chose on
that occasion.
Sir Henry Parkes went to the Theatre Royal
the other evening to witness Blow for Blow, and seemed
to thoroughly enjoy the performance. His visit to the
play named was in view of the approaching return of his
cher ami Forster.
The Baroness Bnrdett-Coutts has written to
the chairman of the Brisbane Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals’ Association. She asks for reports of proceed-
ings, &c., and hints something about a donation. She
does not mention anything about struggling pressmen.
Mr. Alfred Deakin, who was defeated by Har-
per at East Bourke, still writes leading articles in the
Leader. Occasionally he also writes for the Age. He
says David Syme’s judgment is now better than ever.
Mr. Deakin is a friend of Judge Windeyer. Both are
spiritualists.
Mr. Edward Mason, the well-known wood
engraver, has joined The Bulletin staff. He is the
eldest son of the late celebrated Mr. Walter Mason,
formerly of London Punch and the Illustrated
London News, who so beautifully illustrated ‘Lock-
hart’s Scottish ballads.’
Alfred Douglass, who lias become sole proprie-
tor of the Geelong Advertiser, of which Mr. Berry
was until a week or two ago editor and part owner, was
a staunch Coustitutionr list up to the time that Berry
began to wield the editorial quill. A change in the
policy of the paper is uow looked for.
W. P. Morgan, solicitor, is still doubtful
whether he will take possession of the criminal practice
of Brisbane or of Sydney. He is a little man wdth big
blnck eyes and is -one of the smartest police court
lawyers yet born. He can use bad language exten-
sively, but we don’t say that he does it.
William Riolly Reece, a Waterloo veteran, died
at the residence of Mr. Ebenezer Davis, King’s Plains,
on 23rd April, aged 96. He was conscious to the last,
died like a true soldier, and was buried with military
honors in a lovely spot commanding a view of nearly the
whole country as far as the Blue Mountains.
Wilson Bros. & Co. is the name of a firm of
stock and station agents lately started at Brisbane.
Robert, the senior partner, till lately resided at and
partly owned Kynuna Station, in the Far West. He
has been joined by bis brother Gilbert, who has had
many years experience iu wool-broking in England.
The last addition to 1 he Argus staff is Mr. West-
lake who arrived a few weeks ago from England. He
was on the Daily News, and came out on the recom-
mendation of the London representatives of the Argus.
Mr. Drake, of Brisbane, who was lent to the Argus
some time ago, has determined on settling down in Mel-
bourne.
IV. J. MTndoe, the champion swimmer of
Australia, is a native of Geelong, and is only 20 years
of age. He is unquestionably one of the finest swim-
mers iu the world —his time comparing favourably with
the very best home records. F. Kitz, whom he beat the
other day at St. Kilda for the 100 yards’ championship
and £lOO, is also a Geelong man.
A man recently asked alms of George Augustus
Sala on the ground that he (the beggar) was a lineal
descendant of the essayist Addison. Sala replied that
yheu Addison died he left an only daughter who was an
idiot and died in childhood, but that had she not done
f° there might possibly have been some colour of truth
m the man’s claim of relationship.
Sir Edward Eyre Williams, late a judge of the
Victorian Supreme* Court, has just died in England. He
an aide criminal lawyer, has a talented son at
the Melbourne Bar, and was knighted in 1878. The
deceased gentleman sustained a severe shock through
the death of his only daughter, who three or four years
080 fell down a glacier iu Switzerland and was killed.
Professor Reuleanx is enchanted with the
Danae,’ and says it will make the owner’s fortune.
■.“ e art authorities here know too much about paintings,
so there’s a strong probability that this lovely
Pictnre will leave the colony. The Professor has
when home an engraving of the ‘ Danae,’ and is
suing to make minute enquiries in Europe concerning
Lilian’s celebrated original work.
An elderly gentleman who had been tutor to
•Bwfin private families in the Coonamble neighbourhood
tL ij °^* ier day suddenly. Deceased claimed to be
Quia i v son Duke of Marlborough, but having
lov w • famil 7 mansion forty years ago through a
. . e affair, he enlisted as a soldier. Ho never commuui-
-10„ w db his family at home, who thought him dead
\r„? a "° an d his younger brother assumed the title of
orquis of Blandford and succeeded to the Blenheim
Estate. Deceased’s real name was Alfred Spencer
Churchill. Ho was an occasional contributor to the
Press and some years ago was a clever writer.
Alderman Gatehouse, of Melbourne, and some
friends, while on a visit to Geelong recently, marched
round town carrying in their hands dilapidated
umbrellas and penny buns. After almost drowning an
old swagman with beer they conveyed him to a hair-
dresser’s shop and during the absence of the proprietor
shaved off one side of his beard and clipiped off his hair
on the opposite side close to the scalp.
Mr. AValsh, the Member for Cooktown, resides
in Sydney. He stipulates that his friends shall not give
too much prominence to the M.L.A. in addressing him
here. He is fond of society, and as it is difficult to
explain in a large town, like Sydney that he does not
derive Legislative honors from a New South Wales
constituency, he finds an unpleasant tendency in every
new house he visits to look sharply after the spoons.
Mr. Gatehouse, ex-Mayor of Melbourne, who
during his term of office used to career wildly round the
streets on a saveloy machine at two in the morning aud
try to imagine that he was a reincarnated Roman
charioteer, is in trouble again. Being mulcted in £5O
the other day for punching a man’s head wasn’t enough.
Now he’s been burning a trigonometrical station —just
for a lark, you know. The morning’s performance was
due to his having risen before the lark.
Macrossan, the Queensland Minister for Works,
has gone to square the Cook electors in the expectation
that there will he a new election for the district soon.
He might spare himself the trouble; there will be no
election. ‘ Fwed’ Cooper does not find a seat in the
House any disadvantage to him, and smiles at the
ravings of his constituents; while Walsh proposes to
drop in for a week or two when the House meets, do a
session’s talking in the time, and then take the steamer
back to Sydney. ‘ Ewed ’ has been down here lately.
Tommy Wills, one of the best all-round
cricketers whom Australia has yet seen, and who for
many years was captain of the Victorian eleven, com-
mitted suicide at Heidelberg on Monday. The old
story : he had been drinking to excess. He stabbed
himself to the heart with a pair of scissors, and died in
a few minutes, aged 45. An evil destiny pursued his
people. Years ago his father and other members of his
family were massacred by Queensland blacks; and
years ago, too there died in the centre of this con-
tinent one Wills, an explorer, whose name will outlast
the bronze statue iu Collins-street East, Melbourne.
Poor Tommy, may he rest in peace! He has his quietus
taken ‘ with a bare bodkin.’
STAGE GOSSIP.
Yal Yose is travelling in Japan.
Sothern has been in playing in California.
Garner and De Belleville are not ‘ friends.’
Mr. and Mrs. Lewis intend touring the colo-
nies with Juvenile Pinafore. It may he remarked that
in training children for the stage Mrs. Lewis is un-
equalled.
The present Lyster Opera Company is entirely
English.
Lingard is going to travel his own red fire
after this.
Simonson’s Froliques opened at Invercargill on
19th April. ,
Arthur Sketchley has been giving readings at
Wellington.
Juvenile ‘Pinafore,’ in Melbourne, is crowded
almost to suffocation.
Williamson’s Pinafore Company have left
Melbourne for Adelaide.
Patti and her company sang last Sunday at
St. Patrick’s, Melbourne.
Miss Melrose is very sweet. Lingard says
* d-em it, don’t eat the girl!’
Woe to the house of ‘Thatcher.’ It ‘garners’
up its ‘ friends’ so carefully !
Using a play without the author’s permission
is now known as Pinaforeing.’
Signor Cagli is at the head of an Opera Com-
pany performing in Hongkong.
Armfuls of wreaths and bouquets have been
showered on Patti at Melbourne.
Mdlle. Eugenie Legrand, now in Sydney, pro-
ceeds to Brisbane to play lead in Darrell’s pieces. She
opens with •‘Romeo and Juliet.’ She seems to have
quite recovered her health.
Olga Duboin is ‘ concertising’ in Brisbane
nnder Sheppersou’s management.
Miss Eleanor Carey is playing in conjunction
with Miss Clara Morris ia ’Frisco.
Hudson’s Surprise party are working their
passage overland from Queensland.
Mr. R. Stewart lost considerably by the recent
tour of himself and family through India.
Camilla Urso commenced her N. Z. tour at
Auckland, aud was enthusiastically received.
Joe Tolano is going for East Sydney on the
pro-Chinese ticket. Very good ‘ pitchee-pitchee!
The ages of the Juvenile Pinafore Company
now playing in Melbourne range from 5 to 15 years.
‘ Transported for Life,’ after running for 13
nights in Brisbane, has been followed by ‘ The Forlorn
Hope.’
Hegarty says he knew ‘ Drink’ would * go down’
at the Queen’s. He never knew it otherwise in that
theatre.
Jem South is idle in Brisbane. He was to
take a benefit on Monday, May 3rd. Lydia Howarde was
to assist.
Dillon is doing nothing in Brisbane. Miss
Pender is playing lead with Shepperson and Howard’s
Company. /
Lydia Howarde took a benefit at Brisbane.
£B6 was taken at the doors, the prices of admission being
3s, 2s, and Is.
Mr. Alfred Dampier and his friends now put
themselves outside their whisky with the remark,
‘ Success to drink.’
Ella Carrington’s ‘Stray Leaves’ ran for 14-
nights at Brisbane to a moderate business. It rained
nearly every night.
Hiscocks and Hayman are doing good business
in Melbourne with, the Mammoth Minstrels and Vic-
toria Loft ns Combination.
Lingard (Horace) is writing a farewell speech
for his benefit, commencing ‘ Dear Sir.’ However, this
is not Mr. Liugard’s fault.
Dampier and his two talented children follow
Darrell in Brisbane about the middle of June, opening
with * The Royal Pardon.’
An exact thinker is dramatising the ‘New Paul
and Virginia,’ to be played in turn with ‘ East Lyune,’
‘ Friends,’ aud ‘ Pink Dominoes.’
Mr. Aarons, late of the Melbourne Academy
of Music, is charged with fraudulent insolvency. More
careless than wilful, we’re sure.
Mr. A incent, who plays Ramarez in ‘ New
Babylon,’ was, on the first night of the representation,
unable to get his handcuffs off aud had to sleep iu them.
On Thursday night week, in the duel scene, Mr. Bland
Holt accidentally hit him over the head with the
candlestick so hard that he has syice had to wear a
skull-cap
Clara Morris, during a recent performance of
Man and Wife,’ in ’Frisco, shed tears because her
favorite dog had the toothache.
Lydia Howarde, we hear, has received a flatter-
ing offer to travel India next year in burlesque. She is
to join a company to be formed iu London.
Mdlle. Duboin gives two pianoforte recitals
in Brisbane under Sheppersou’s management. The first
to be given in the School of Arts on May 4th.
(3 It is stated in the Feeemantle (W.A.)
Herald of the 17th April that a ‘ large and talented
circus company had just arrived from Melbourne.’
Harry Rickards’ creditors assembled the other
day at Plymouth and produced claims for £1548 13s,
the assets being—wardrobe (loud) £lO, and cash £3.
Ketten in German means chain. A chain of
circumstances brings Henri Ketten, the great pianist
to Australia. He arrives by the incoming ’Frisco
mail.
Little Mattie Taylor, the Buttercup of Mrs. G.
B. W. Lewis’ Juvenile Pinafore Company, is the best of
the troupe. The Admiral and Josephine are precociously
clever, too.
Mr. Joe Brown, of the Melbottene Age, has
written a drama founded on incidents in colonial life.
The chief feature of the piece lies in the fact that a
team of bullocks is brought on to the stage, and that
the driver instead of swearinsr at the beasts, only prays
at them. It’s not a case of ‘ Flying Send’—if* merely
chewing ’s cud.
Bland Holt is coining money. Tommy Holt
of the Warren wants to claim relationship. Says he’ll
get Bland made a J.P., but the favourite prefers re-
spectability.
Madame Rose Hersee, who, as stated in our
last, goes home shortly, is engaged to assist in the pro-
duction, at Manchester, of a new opera by the composer
of ‘ Carmen.
De Vivo, Zelman, Paladini and Orlori are still
in nightly possession of the round table at Nissen’s
Caftl, Melbourne. They’re called the ‘ Knights of the
Round Table.’
The Josephine of Mr. Lewis’ company, who is
fifteen years old and very pretty, is the daughter of Mr.
Herman Graupner, a poor Jewish tradesman iu Stephen-
street, Melbourne.
Business at the Christchurch Academy of
Music has been rather thin lately, notwithstanding the
attraction offered by that accomplished actress Miss
Adelaide Bowring.
Grattan Riggs has exhibited exceptional talent
in Melbourne, but the demerits of the trashy pieces he
has been playing are so great that they would drowu
the genius of any comedian.
At Adelaide, during the first week of their
recent engagement, the Williamsons took over £2OO
more than was ever taken iu the city named by any other
company, operatic or dramatic.
According to latest census returns there were
87 actors and 87 actresses residing iu New Zea-
land—37 gentlemen and 24 ladies out of this number
being inhabitants of Wellington.
Wybert Reeve, the actor and author, opens in
Adelaide on the 17th at the new hall lately leased by Mr.
Arthur Garner. The place, which may uow be culled a
theatre, is being re-decorated and altered.
Mr. Ruskin writes in The Theatre : ‘ I do,
and did, much admire Mr. Irving in his acting of Shy-
lock ; but I utterly dissent, and indignantly, too, from
his general reading and treatment of the play.’
Tenders are called for the erction of a new
theatre in Brisbane. It will cost £6OOO, and the money
has been subscribed. The site is near the old School of
Arts, at the corner of Creek and Adelaide streets.
Mr. G. B. W. Lewis, it is said, is about to
erect a monster hippodrome on the St Kilda road, near
Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne, for the International
season. He has already commenced to get his horses
iu order.
Campanini, the tenor, having on a recent
evening failed to appear at St. Louis, the management
explained that he was suffering from ‘ syncope.’ A local
paper thereupon observed that some people do give
fancy names to mixed drinks.
Gilbert and Sullivan have been getting £lOOO
per week in N.Y. as their share from the representation
of ‘The Pirates of Penzance.’ Good judges say that
the profits of the piece will amount to £lO,OOO per annum
for the next two or three years.
Miss Julia Merton lias made so palpable a hit
as ‘ Crazy Jane ’ that an old woman, her exact proto-
type, nightly serenades the talented artiste with a plain-
tive edition of ‘ Don’t be angry with me darling.” Good,
good werry ! Superlative, worry!
Adelina Patti appeared in ‘La Traviata’ at
Paris ou 14th February, and was received by a brilliant
audience, who found her voice fuller nud richer than
when last they heard her. She was indiffex-ently sup-
ported, and Nicoliui did not appear.
Wybert Reeve has written a play called ‘Life,’
which will shortly be produced at the Royal, Melbourne,
by Grattan Riggs. It is apparently a good deal hashed
out of ‘ George Darrell’s ‘ Transported for Life’ and
Captain Moriu Humphries’ ‘ Hearts of Gold.’
Who wrote the letter to Mr. J. H. Rainford
in reference to the ‘ New Babylon,’ signed ‘ A Repentant
Jockey ?’ Who wrote that uiao lively ejiistle showing
how the bad little N. S. W. boy,.who had made up his
mind to sell a race, was turned from his evil purpose
by witnessing the great sensational play ? There is
a managerial smack about the composition.
Lydia Howarde has concluded a short but
brilliant burlesque season at Brisbane. She was sup-
ported by Miss Emma Rogers, the Marsh family, Miss
ue Glorian, and Messrs. Sam Howard, Sam Poole,
Hasker, and Herford. With such a combination, excel-
lent scenery, rich dresses, aud pretty music admirably
rendered, the season could not but be enjoyable
Japanese Tommy may now be seen bugging a
book. To the inquisitive we hasten to explain, oass
Hodge persuaded Tommy that he could play Xit, the
gentlemanly English dwarf in Harrison Ainsworth’s
‘ Tower of London.’ Tommy turned pale, but saw a
fortune. He interviewed Lewis Scott, but Lewis, seeing
the success and credit to actor and author, asked £l5O.
‘ A little too steep,’ said Tommy. Walter Cooper wanted
£lOO. Tommy saw neither again. Now he has got some
scribbling amateur to do it, and hugs his ten-guinea
manuscript night and day. He sleeps, and Xits on it.
Miss Cissie Archer, whose vocalisation was so
much admired in Tasmania, has joined Lyster*s Opera
Co., and appeared at the Opera House, Melbourne, in
‘ Girofle Girofla.’ This young lady has long been regar-
ded as the best siugcr Ihe island has produced. Her
voice is a pure mezzo-soprano of full tone, and quite free
from throaty effort, whilst her register ranges from E
below the stave to Ein alt. She has a good physique,
aud if her performance in operas are up to the standard
of those ou the concert stage she will be a big success.
Miss Archer is a native of Launceston, where she was
trained by Mr. John Wallace.
The subjoined elegant paragraph, clipped from
the Cabcoar Chronicle, is mysterious. The matter to
which it refers wants looking into, as, prima facie, the
‘poor player’ has been grievously wronged :—‘Warn-
ing to Vagrants. —Charles Benson, aged 40, native of
Cork, no religion, amateur travelling mnsicain, after
having treated the residents of Carcoarto a performance
with his “bones,” was ultimately brought before the
Police Magistrate on the 23rd ultimo, and was sent to
Bathurst gaol for one month with hard labour.’ What
for ? Will the Attorney-General please enquire P
When Mr. A. S. Smythc, the theatrical agent,
was in Paris some years ago, he opened negotiations
with Carlotta Patti, but as there was a difference of
£2OOO between the respective sums named by them for
100 concerts in the antipodes no business was d< ne.
However, the idea of reaping a golden harvest in the
land where her friend Arabella Goddard had amassed a
fortune, was not abandoned by Patti. When she
reached Melbourne she enquired about the rich manager
who in her magnificent apartments hod painted in such
glowing colours the pleasures and profits of an Aus-
tralian tour. She was told he was dead, and was sorry
to hear it. However, one day when her carriage drove
up to Allan’s music warehouse in Collins-street Mr.
Smythe advanced to meet the Diva. ‘ Mon Dieu,’ ex-
claimed Patti with a shriek, ‘ they told me you were
dead; you have not been dead ?’ ‘No thank you,
Madame,’ replied Smythe the imperturbable. A long
‘yarn,,’ of which the foregoing is the substance, ap-
peared in a Melbourne paper. Some people say that it
isn’t true, and that the resurrection anecdote is only a
way E. E. S. has of advertising himself.
How thankful Mr. Dampier must.be! Says
the Twaddlegbaph ;— ‘ The production of a piece with
so striking a heading as Drink, would almost at any time
attract a good house to a theatre, but when such a one
is presented by so good a company as is playing in the
Queen’s Theatre, the criticism becomes more general,
and should also be found somewhat acute. * » «
The great moral lesson sought to be inculcated by it
—namely, the grand desirableness of totally abstaining
from vinous, fermented, or spirituous drinks—was not
received by the audience with that unanimity that
might have been expected. All the most egregious
excesses of the drunkard were were most heartih' en-
joyed by the hulk of the audience, whilst the greatest
and grandest efforts of the reclaimed drunkard were
damned by the faintest of apparent or demonstrative
praise. * * The scene representing the interior of a
public washhouse is, if possible, too good, because the
associations are the reverse of pure.’ We always
thought that the reverse was the case. Continues the
young lady of York-street;—‘The artistes played well
as a rule, but another opportunity of noti-iug them will
occur.’ We hope not. Twaddle, tw n d fie, twoffdlel
Some ‘ grand ‘taoTal llessons’ are badly wanted |up in
York-street.
A New Reading from Shakespeare.
CHARLES KEMBLE JONES (who is a painstaking member of an Amateur Dramatic
Society): “ Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by-"
MARIA JANE : “The gasman, please sir; and he swears if the bill ain’t paid he’ll cut off
the gas.”


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Wool is loss buoyant at home.
Russia is persecuting the Jews.
Ballarat has the gold-fever again.
At Parramatta typhoid is prevalent.
The Afghans have again been thrashed.
Oooktown Chinamen are off to the Coen.
General Stewart now commands at Cabul.
Dunedin folks are still armed to the teeth.
Remounts are wanted for the Indian army.
The ‘ cinchona cure ’ for inebriates is a fraud.
‘Yankee grab ’ is abolished by law in California.
Essence of almonds has killed a Melbourne
boy.
The Etheridge reefers made .f 170 a man last
year.
Historic Wantabadgcry has turned out a gold-
field.
English and American wheat-crops are satis-
factory.
The Union Club, Brisbane, is about to be greatly
enlarged.
Last Palmer escort brought to Cooktown 2732
ounces gold.
A London minister is praying for the conversion
of the devil.
The dirtiest part of Petersham is the railway
foot bridge.
Sydney University has been disfranchised by
the Assembly.
At Hamilton, Yic., there are still many diph-
therotic patients.
The Queensland National Bank starts business
in Sydney shortly.
A certain Adelaide brewer is now banking
£lO,OOO per week.
A Masons’ Insurance Association is to bo estab-
lished in Melbourne.
At Dunedin the P.M. has fined a man =£lo for
swearing in the street.
At Yalwal the Pioneer Co. have crushed 100
tons for 77 ounces gold.
The “ Anti-Chinese Association of N.S.W’” has
been formed in Sydney.
Erysipelas—that dire disease —has broken out
in the Sydney Infirmary wards.
It’s said that the Baroness Burdott-Coutts gives
£150,000 to the Irish Famine Fund.
Vale, Gaunson, and M'Kean are in the now
Victorian Parliament. Good heavens !
By the latest returns there were three millions
of acres open to selection in Queensland.
Cooktown niggers are eating plenty of horse-
flesh just now at the expense of the whites’.
The Moroton Bay Oyster Company is rapidly
increasing trade with Sydney and Melbourne.
Sir Henry Parkes is considering the request for
a grant in aid of the Infants’ Home, Ashfleld.
Last Sunday evening at St. Mary’s over .£362
was received in aid of the new Cathedral Fund.
Ninian Melville, demagogue, evangelist and
undertaker, has been elected for Northumberland.
Sir Charles M‘Mahon, Mr. Lalorand Mr. J. M.
Grant are candidates for the Victorian Speakership.
Another British training ship (the Atalanta) is
believed to have gone down with all hands, 300 souls.
Reporters are as plentiful as mushrooms in
Melbourne. There was a time when it was otherwise.
Chinamen have been excluded from tendering
for the supply of chairs for the Melbourne International!
Some N.Z. farmers have now to choose whether
they will let the tenants or the caterpillars eat np their
grain.
‘ Now Men and Old Acres ’ is the next produc-
tion of the London Comedy Company at the Theatre
Eoyal.
Tiro protectionists of Queensland only object to
free trade politically. Morally speaking they all free
traders.
A desire to settle with bookmakers induced a
Melbourne watchmaker to steal watches from his em-
ployer.
The Orient steamers are to be completely fitted
with machinery for producing cold by the dry air
process.
Service is now going in bald - headed for free
trade, The rattle of the protectionist drum is heard
afar off.
The Queensland Government is calling for ten-
ders for the extension of the trunk lines towards the
setting sun.
Tho movement for a new daily journal in Hobart
Town hangs fire for the want of an interested capitalist
with exxjerience.
Several members of a Timaru jury tho other
day didn’t know what their verdict was till they saw
it in the papers.
Daring tho “ Chinese strike ” the Hunter River
8. N. Co. made £ll,OOO clear owing to the A.S.N. Co.’s
boats being laid up.
The Commissioners of the Melbourne Inter-
national have been properly ‘ nipped ’ over the contract
for interior decorations.
Freethinkers protest against the Ministerial pro-
posal to bring tho public platform under the direct cen-
sorship of Government.
At Picola, Moira, two children, aged respec-
tively 6 and 8, have been lost in the bush. It is thought
they have been drowned.
Sir Redmond Barry and Dr. Brownless have
been re-elected Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor of
the University, respectively.
Mr. Matthew Burnett’s Saturday night Tem-
perance meetings at Adelaide are wonderfully success-
ful and are to he continued.
A brother unsuccessfully charged his own sister
at the Central Police Court on Monday with having
stolen from him a scarf ring.
A Sydney constable has been fined (not by
Walter Smart) two guineas for assaulting a man who
impudently denied being drunk.
It is said that Whitehead and Co., by the in-
struction of English capitalists, are leasing extensive
grazing paddocks at Luke’s Creek.
A Cromwell (N.Z.) man who travelled 100 miles
to hear Ohiniquy, listened with attention, but after-
wards got drunk and broke his neck.
A young fellow has fallen 250 ft. down an Adelong
shaft through the rope breaking. He • landed ’in the
water and was only slightly scratched.
The Johnsonian Club, Brisbane, now numbers
83 members. To become a member one must have ‘ done
something’ in literature, science or art.
Two publicans, in a township not very far from
Tamworth, recently ‘ lambed-down * a surveyor’s cook
taking from him £l4O in two or three days.
The steward of the s.s. Derwent was fined o£ls
and costs at Brisbane for selling liquor without a
license while the vessel lay alongside the wharf.
People should object to the Government subsi-
dising the San Francisco mail boats (which are manned
by Chinamen) to the extent of £17,000 per annum.
Sir Samuel Wilson has sold Toorale and Dunlop
Stations and the North Darling Back Blocks, together 1
with nearly 250,000 sheep, for something like £300,000.
On the Auckland schooner Marion, off Norfolk
Island recently, there was a most distressing scene
The little craft had 29 horses and 44 sheep on hoard. A
hurmcane came on, tho horses broke loose, and all
were so fearfully injured that the hold became a per-
fect lake of blood, which it took a long' time to pump
out on reaching port.
During tho recent Tasmanian floods passenger
traffic was stoj>ped on the main line, and vehicles
brought into use between Snake-banks and Launceston.
Alfred B. von Hollboor, tho Prussian gentleman
who recently attempted suicide in Melbourne, did so
while suffering from insanity caused by an xxnoxtracted
bullet.
Selections are being taken up on the Endeavour
River (near Cooktowuj, the xdver into which Captain
Cook sailed in the craft after which the stream is
named.
A clerk in the N.Z. Audit Office has boon pre-
sented by some Maori chiels with a block of land valued
at £12,000, in recognition of kindnesses extended by his
father to the tribe.
The late dismissals in tho Queensland Govern-
ment service have created a great consternation in retail
trading circles. ‘Tick’ is now unknown and three-penny
drinks the order of the day.
Mr, J. S. Bray, well-known nsan accomplished
entomologist has been elected secretary to the Lin-
eman Society of I N. S. W. His appointment appears
to have caused some jealousy
Sir John Robertson has been gazetted Minister
of Public Instruction; Mr. W. E. Plunket, Under-
secretary of Justice; and Mr. W. Wilkins, Under-
Secretary of Public Instruction.
At tho recent Christchurch review one volun-
teer grumbled because he couldn’t get hot water to
wash in; and another, because he wasn’t supplied with
a double bed, &c., took rail home.
A groat amount of small wagering took place in
the electorate of Northumberland over tho late election.
Melville and Greer were equal favorites, but any
price could be had about the doctor.
It’s said that the troopers assert that if a
party wore only allowed to go away on their own hook,
totally unfettered by red tape, they’d give a good accpnut
of the Kellys within a very short time.
The Queensland Inspector of Brands reports
that Queensland can spare two thousand tons of meat
per week; this at lid. per pound gives a return of
£1,450,000 per annum to the producers.
A week before Mr. Gorman, late postmaster at
Hamilton, Vic., died of diphtheria, an insurance agent
J waited upon him and asked him to insure his life.
“ Next year,” replied Mr. Gorman, Such is life!
Tailings which, according to assay, contained
soz. gold per ton, have yielded, when treated at Bal-
larat by Denny and Roberts’ (Bathurst) grinder and
amalgamator, 4oz. 15dwt. 10grs., or 05 per cent.
The Melbourne unemployed are tho true rulers
of tho Southern metropolis. They are the lean kine
who eat up tho fat ones. ‘ What do you want P’ asked
the Premier the other day. None of the deputation
knew.
Bradlaugh, the ‘social reformer,’ recently
elected for Northampton, declines to subscribe to the
customary oath, and is consequently unable to take his
seat. A ;Committee of the House is considering the
matter.
Some of the ‘ bloated oligarchs ’ of Victoria,
says the Hamilton’ Spectator, are graduates of Oxford
and Cambridge, who, in 1852, gladly accepted work at
wages which are now despised by the unemployed of
Melbourne.
A Glebe alderman the other day objected to the
appointment of a well-known legal practitioner as
borough solicitor on tho ground that the latter ‘ was
not one of our (the alderman’s) cloth.’ This is the
19th century.
We are informed that Mr. Musgravo, formerly
of the Lyster Opera Company, leaves Melbourne by
next mail for London, for the purpose of bringing out
an opera company, £2,000 having been subscribed for
the purpose.
The Bank of New South Wales in Queensland,
after putting on the screw and winding up half the
customers, is now importing money for investment.
Queenslanders say that their National Bank has enough
for their requirements.
Early on Thursday morning the Fresh Food and
Ice Co’s, premises, at Darling Harbour, were burnt
down. Much valuable plant was destroyed, but the
horses, numbering between 70 and 80, were released
before the flames reached them.
The Queenslander has just discovered that
the black police is a foul stain on our boasted civilisa-
tion. It is a symptom of gross carelessness that so
much of the * silly season ’ should have been allowed
to glide past without this inexhaustible subject being
tapped.
A Newcastle (N.S.W.) man went to a fancy
dress ball as a policeman. He flirted with the servant
girls and took cold meat, likewise beer. But the imita-
tion article, when it got outside, collided with a
‘ genuine ’ guardian of the law and was locked up.
Fined 20s.
A resident of Loeston, N.Z., named MTntyre,
all but murdered his wife and was arrested, but escaped
from custody. Recently he returned to the police
station, but could find no one to lock him up. At latest
dates he was looking for the police and the police for him.
Official Box and Cox, in fact.
William and Isaac Euston, two young fellows
recently ran away with Lizzie and Alice Parker, aged
respectively 16 and 14, from Stoney Point, Barcoo. Mr.
Parker, a Martini-Henry, two revolvers, a prospecting
knife, a bolt full of cartridges, and a fast blood horse,
are on the war-path just now.
Palmer, the ‘ emphatic,’ has caused the following
notice to be posted outside the Colonial Secretary’s
Office, Brisbane: —: —‘ Applicants for employment in
the Government Service are requested to save their own
time and that of the Colonial Secretary. There are no
vacancies. (Signed) A. H. Palmer.’
Mr. M. A. M‘Donnell, foraierly Attorney-
General in the Sloden Administration, was paid £5OO by
the BeVry Government for drafting the Judicature Bill.
However, no such bill can be found by the Service
Ministry. Tammany! M’Donnell is an unsuccessful
barrister, devoid of political principle.
In tho new British Administration the Earl of
Kenmare is Lord Chamberlain; Earl Sydney, Lord
Steward; the Earl of Cork, Master of the Buckhounds;
the Duke of Westminster, Master of the Horse; the
Marquis of Lansdowne, Under-Secretary for India; the
Earl of Morley, Under-Secretary for War.
The tablet erected in St. John’s Church,
Mudgee, in memory of that good old clergyman, the
late Archdeacon Gunther (for 38 years incumbent of
Mudgee), bears the following lines :
‘ Amid these aisles where once his precepts showed
The Heaveuwax-d pathway which in life he trod.
This simple tablet marks a people's love.’
At the Water Police Court, during the sitting of
the licensing bench on Wednesday, an application for a
transfer of the license of the Mill Hotel, King-street,
from Mr. Patrick to Mr. William Kelly was applied for!
Although represented by Mr. Coonan the parties did
not appear, ‘Where are the Kellys?’ enquired Mx-.
Penfold. Mr. Coonan replied that he didn’t exactly
know.
A constable the other evening broke the collar-
bone of a well-known litex-ary man, whom he will
arraign as soon as the collar-bone gets well.
The choleric and collared proprietor of the collar-bone
says he’s going to see whether his own word and that
of fourteen hard-working witnesses won’t be preferred
m a court of justice to the emphatic oath of the gentle-
man in blue.
Only seven members—Messrs. Buchanan, Hur-
ley (H.), Renwick, Greenwood, Bennett, Moses, and
Melville voted for Mr. Buchanan’s motion for the with-
drawal of aid from the colleges affiiliated to the Univer-
sity, notwithstanding the mover’s solemn afflinnation
that it the colleges were allowed to be supported the
House might as well allow the Chinese to erect their
Joss houses and give them assistance to teach their
doctrines.
The N.Z. census returns are made up in a
comical manner. Billiard-table keepers and markers
ax-e classed with actors; so are bootmakers!
A man whose occupation is unsavoury but neces-
sary is catalogued as ‘dealing in clay, earthenware
and glass; ’ a cemetery-keeper comes under the head of
' others connected with religion; ’ and a Tnrkish-hath
keeper is, according to the Registrar-General, one of
‘ others engaged in board and lodging! ’
A short life and a jolly one was evidently the
motto of two young men who visited Brisbane lately.
They gave their names as Hardie and Hoffnung. The
one said he was the brother of Mr. Hardie, of the
Sydney firm of Hardie and Gorman, and the other a
brother of Mr. Hoffnung. They held high revel for
two days at leading hotels, and then were arrested
for issuing valueless cheques at Glen Inues. It is need-
less to say that they are in no way related to the
gentlemen above named.
A Gnnnedah lady writes a Sydney friend thus :
—“ We have a plague of mice here, and have had one
for the past three months. Wa catch sometimes fifty
in one night at Mrs. B ’s. They are something
frightful. They are in everybody’s house. They eat
everything they come across, even clothes. On a sta-
tion outside Gunnedah they caught 12,000 in a fortnight!
They are ruining all the settlers round about. Would
you not like to live here ? They bite and run over one
in bed. My arms and head have been bitten.'
Butlor, charged with the recent murders at
Dunedin, is said to be a cadaverous-looking creature,
with dirty leaden-hued complexion—which might take
on an additional pallor, but would hardly flush with
colour—shallow blue eyes, and a thin fringe of hny-
coloured moustache. His forehead and chin fall away
rapidly from the salient promontory of his nose. His
cheeks are drawn in, apparently by nervous contraction,
and at the centres of depression have a twitching mo
tion unpleasant to see. He is long-necked—the,
‘Adam’s apple’ prominent in the throat—narrow-
chested, spare of build and limb, below middle height,
and, though probably agile, possesses little physical
force. He is 28, and looks 35.
On April Fools’ Day someone sounded the bugle-
call at Eangitiki, N.Z. The volunteers mustered and
fell in, but— <
The captain and lieutenants.
And the ensigns with the pennants,
And the unobtrusive, stalwart rank and file.
Saw the absence of their colonel
Was an April joke infernal,
And they smole a sod but military smile.
In N.Z. they are accommodating to bankrupts.
At a meeting the other day in the estate of a store-
keeper it was promptly decided that the estate be wound
up forthwith; that a dividend be declared out of the
funds in hand ; that the balance of uncollected debts bo '
handed over to the bankrupt to enable him to commence
business again; and finally, that the debtor’s discharge
be granted.
The late N.Z. Volunteer Review is characterised
by a leading journal, in a long leading article, as a
‘ disgraceful exhibition of ignorance of military duties
—a burlesque Panch-aud-Judy show dln grande wilt.
taire.’ We cannot find space for the whole of the article
referred to, but we summarise it in order that our
readers may have a glimpse at the reported doings of
the wearers of the Queen's uniform iu N.Z.‘ Wasted
powder—enormous quantities fermented liquors—mu-
tinous conduct—brave army—scandalous conduct—
armed larrikins—disgraced to civilised community—in-
sulting females looting shops rushing theatre
counterfeit British tars—budding fishmongers—ill-
treating inoffensive pieman—stealing his goods—threw
man into water-trough—ejected lady and gentlemen
from carnage—drove off—dastardly outrages—Dunedin
lai-rikins—indecent blackguards—shoemakers’ and tin-
kers’ apprentices playing at soldiers—vulgar doings at
demoniacal spree —turned up noses because no wash-
hand stands—incompetent field officers mid political
toadies —no discipline—Jack’s as good as his master.
Why, then, should the over-taxed ratepayer have to
pay for these “ military sprees ” and have his windows
smashed and himself robbed and insulted to boot ? ’
Mr. L’Estrange, the Aeronaut.
On page 4 we give a portrait of Mr. L’Estrange,
the Australian Aeronaut, who is in this city-
arranging for a balloon ascent. In our next issue
we will give a sketch of his career.
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK I.—PRIDE AND PLENTY.
CHAPTER VII — Continued.
“Is Mr. Frederick Sponceley here?” inquired
Myles, quietly and politely.
‘ ‘ Mr. Frederick Spenceley ?’ ’ repeated the waiter
while an expression of ill-humour crossed his face.
“ I rather think ho is, and in a deuce of a temper
too. If Mr. Frederick Spenceley keeps on coming
here, I shan’t stay. Well, do you want to see
him ?”
“ i should just like to speak to him,” said
Myles, ever calmly and politely ; his one object
being to penetrate to Mr v Spenceley’s presence,
content to pocket his burning fury until he was
face to face with him.
Mr. Spenceley evidently enjoyed little favour in
the eyes of the waiter, or the latter would hardly
have allowed a working-man to penetrate into that
sanctum sanctorum, the billiard-room. As it was
he said :
“ Well, if you go straight ahead upstairs, you’ll
find him in the billiard-room, I expect. But per-
haps you want to see him down here ?”
“Ohno ! I can go to him. Upstairs, you say ?”
The waiter nodded; and Myles, obeying his
direction, found himself on the first landing,
opposite the door inscribed “ Billiards.”
He knocked, but no reply was given, which was
accounted for by the loud and overpowering voice
of Frederick Spenceley, whose accents drowned all
other sounds.
Myles opened the door and walked into the room,
which was like most other billiard-rooms ; four
green-shaded lights above the table ; the marker,
standing in his place, looking sulky—he too having
received his share of the compliments |of Mr. Spen-
celey that evening.
(It was a significant fact, that not one of Frede-
rick Spenceloy’s inferiors would have felt anything
but pleasure in his degradation or humiliation.)
There was Charlie Saunders, the insignificant-
looking boy, whose pretty pink-and-white face was
now a good deal flushed, and who laughed foolishly
now and then in his high-pitched voice. Opposite,
with his burly back towards the door, was
Frederick Spenceley, shouting very loudly, and
freely expressing his opinion that the cloth was a
confounded bad one, and that the table was not
level.
“ It's your eye that’s not level, Freddy, my boy,’*
said his youthful opponent? “and your cue too.
Look out what you’re doing’.”
“D—nit! it isn’t. Where's the cha-ak? It’s
my beastly luck,” roared Spencoley, against whom
the balls had broken most unfavourably the whole
evening.
Had the fellow been in the least intoxicated,
Myles would have retired; but he was merely
noisy and ill-tempered, and accordingly the work-
man chose that moment to step forward and touch
Mr. Spenceley on the shoulder.
Witn a violent start, which contrasted somewhat
curiously with his previous bluster, he turned;
and when he saw Myles, his face assumed a deep
hue of anger, and perhaps some less noble feeling,
“I want a word with you,” said Myles curtly;
and young Saunders paused to stare at the new
comer, while the marker turned and looked on too.
Be it observed that neither of these men loved
Frederick Spenceley. A billiard-marker, however,
is not always in a position to ree*nt affronts, and
Charlie Saunders was a person of less importance
than Spenceley, whatever might bo his private
opinion of him. Moreover, the whole proceeding
took them by surprise, or —perhaps they might
have took them by surprise, or —perhaps they
might have interfered.
“ If you like to come to another room, where we
can bo alone,” pursued Myles, composedly, “lead
the way. I don’t care where it is.”
“ What the do you want, you ?”
growled Spenceley, recovering his pluck, or what
he was pleased to consider his pluck.
I think you remember me. I don’t need to in-
troduce myself,” said Myles. “ Now look here!
You’ve been behaving yourself like a blackguard
again—perhaps you can’t help that—but, in any
case, you’ll be pleased to take your attentions to
some other quarter than that one. You know what
I mean.”
“ I’ll be —” (a volley of dash dialect) —“ if I do,
you fool! Be off, and don’t annoy gentleman.
Clear out, I say, or I’ll call the waiter, and have
you kicked out.”
“ You were in Markham’s lane to-night,” went
on Myles, composedly, though his face became
white, and his lips were set.
“ What’s that to you ? What business have you
to come spying on gentleman ?”
“ If I wore you, I wouldn’t say too much about
spying. You know what happened there —in
Markham’s lane, I mean. If anything like it hap-
pens again—just once again •”
He paused.
“Well?” said Spenceley, with a sneer and a
taunt, “what will be the consequences, my fine
fellow ?”
“ They will be unpleasant to you, for I’ll thrash
you within an inch of your life. ’ ’
“Ha! ha! ha?” roared Mr. Spenceley, but
somehow there was a false note in the full chord:
it failed of rounded, complete harmony.
“Freddy, what have you been up to?” cried
Charlie Sannders in amaze ; but ho did not ask
what the other man had been “up to.” It ap-
peared to be taken for granted that he had good
ground for his complaint.
“ Look here, you beggar,” observed Spencoley
to Myles ; “ just get out of this, before you are
turned out, and don’t interfere in things you don’t
.understand.”
“ Igo when I have your promise to behave your-
self in future—not before.”
“ Wha-at ? Promises? I don’t make promises
to cads.”
“ Then I suppose you’ve never promised yourself
what you deserve. I’m waiting for a promise to
me, not a cad, and I’ll stay till I get it.”
“ D—n you? will you be off?” shouted Spen-
celoy, in a sudden passion, as he saw the cool,
scornful face of Myles, and his eyes contemptuously
measuring him from head to foot; and took in
with a side-glance the scarcely concealed smile
upon the face of the others. “ Will neither of you
fellows ring the boll, and have this fool turned
out?”
The rules of the club not providing for such an
emergency, they took no notice of what he
blustered at them, while Myles replied coolly as
ever:
“When I’ve got what 1 want, I’ll be off, as I
said.”
“Perhaps you want to keep the little darling to
yourself,” began Spenceley.
“ Drop that!” said Myles, sharply, for the first
time losing his perfect self-command.
f ‘ Ah, that’s it! We don’t want to be disturbed
in our little game. We are so very industrious and
literary in our pursuits ”
In clenching his hand, Myles felt something in
it which he had forgotten—the parcel containing’
Mary’s straps. The paper which enwrapped them
had got loose. One strap had fallen coiling upon
the floor ; one remained in his hand. Helookedat
it, and felt very strong to wield it. Ho turned
once more to Mr. Spenceley, saying :
‘ 1 Do you promise never to speak to, or molest
the lady again ?”
“ Make promises to you, about that little jade .
. . .” began Spenceley, jeeringly, but he did not
finish the sentence.
Myles’s hand, like an iron vice, was at his throat,
and during the paralysing astonishment and be-
wilderment of the other two, Frederick Spenceley
received such a thrashing as ho had many a time
deserved but which circumstances had hitherto
denied to him. Myles's hold, strengthened by a
passion which lent him irrosistable power, did not
for one moment relax. At last Saunders turned
and rang the bell; but not before the fine broad-
cloth coat was in ribbons upon it’s owner’s back,
and the face above it purple almost suffocating’
did Myles fling him away from him, remarking
coolly:
“ Perhaps that will answer as well as a promise.
If ever its necessary, there’s the same thing, and
worse ready for a second time.”
He turned to find the door open, and the waiter
staring in, aghast.
“Kick him out! Fetch some water!” cried
young Sannders betiding over the prostrate figure
of his friend. “ Kick him out, Isay!” he reiter-
ated. He was remarkably small and slender in
figure, and doubtless felt that it would be a,
mockery to attempt the deed himself.
Myles turned towards the waiter, who still
blocked up the doorway.
“Well,” said he, tranquilly, “I am waiting;
which are you going to do ? Kick me out—or let
me pass ?”
The billiard-marker made no attempt to inter-
fere. The insults received that very evening ran-
kled in his mind ; he was well pleased at the
humiliation of the bully. The little waiter looked
up for a moment at the tall, muscular, sinewy
young man who towered above him, with a pale
face, and a look of flexible determination about his
eyes and mouth, and a frown of anger, terrible in
its intensity on his brow. He stood aside silently.
Myles turned and said :
“ If I’m wanted again about this business, my
name is Heywood, and I live on the Townfield. 1
can easily be found.”
No answer was returned -. he composedly picked
up his second strap and walked away.
(to be continued.)
ORIGINAL VERSE.
My Waratah.
’Twas on a soft still summer night.
All tranquil nature slept;
And silent in the heavens bright
The stars their vigil kept.
While the pale moon looked down on all—
No cloud her light to mar—-
'Twas there amid the pine trees tall
I met my Waratah,
My love, my Waratah.
She came to meet me all alone,
My bright-eyed mountain maid.
The love that in her sweet face shone
Was by the moon betrayed.
I took her little hand in mine
While the moon shone out afar;
And in the shadow of the pine
I kissed mj Waratah,
My loving Waratah.
E. B.
Sydney, 3rd May, 1880.


Kearet brothers, coach and buggy
BUILDERS,
290 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Near Park-street.
J HUBERT NEWMAN,
, PORTRAITIST,
Photographer by appointment to His Excellency the
Governor.
Sole Place of Business :
12 OXFORD STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
JF. CRIPPS, PASTRYCOOK AND
• CONFECTIONER,
267 (late 255) Pitt Street, Sydney.
Balls, Suppers, Pic-uics, fee., catered for in the
best style.
H. DANIEL,
CROSS ROADS, URANA ROAD, WAGGA WAGGA.
J'i H A S.
GENERAL STOREKEEPER,
Agent for the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
OCULIST.— Professor HARRISON
Oculist, (late of the Manchester
Eye Hospital) 129 WILLIAM STREET,
may be consulted daily—lo to 12 a.m. ;
2 to 4 p.m.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
DOLPHE GABRIEL & CO.
SURGICAL AND MECHANICAL DENTISTS,
18 WYNYARD SQUARE,
(two doors from pfahlert’s hotel),
SYDNEY.
CAUTION!
Owing to systematic attempts which are made to
mislead, Messrs A. G. and Co. find it necessary to
caution their patients that
THEIR ONLY ADDRESS IS AS ABOVE.
David m < c a l l,
14 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
By Special Appointment
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER
to His Royal Highness the DUKE OF EDINBURGH,
His Excellency the Right Honorable the EARL OF
BELMORE, His Excellency Sir Hercules ROBINSON,
K.C.M.G., and His Excellency LORD AUGUSTUS
LOFTUS, K.C.M.G.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition 1869, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
N.B.—Greyhound Slips, Couplings, Collars, Leads,
Sheets, and other requisites.
SCARFS AND NECKTIES
FOE GENTLEMEN,
at
HORDEEN’S NEW MERCERY AND OUT-
FITTING SHOP,
PITT STREET,
Near the Victoria Theatre.
THE BEST SHOP FOR NECKTIES IN TOWN.
TRY IT!!!
J. L. HORDERN.
R
OBERT CAS
SADDLER,
WAGGA WAGGA.
S
I N,
BRANCH AT NARANDERA.
Gentlemen residing at a distance who may desire to
obtain Saddles bearing E. Cassin’s well-known brand,
can always obtain them by writing to his Wagga
establishment.
KERR, MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
Watch and Clock Maker,
574 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
w
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and
Presentation Trowels designed and made on
the premises.
DIAMOND SETTER.
CHAS. MON lE, SADDLER AND HARNESS
MAKER,
GURWOOD STREET, WAGGA WAGGA.
Jobbing executed on the shortest notice.
Wagga has long been celebrated for the excellence of
its Saddles, and it will be found by those who try
Saddles of my manufacture that they are by no means
inferior to those of any other maker in the colonies.
Sportsmen are invited to call. .
CtITY HAIRDRESSING AND BATH ROOMS,
J 220 PITT STREET
(Opposite Tattersall’s Hotel).
Mr. JAMES CLARKE, Proprietor.
*** The BATHS of this establishment are unsur-
passed in Sydney, being fitted up and supplied on
absolutely new principles, which cannot but win for
them an extensive public patronage.
N.B. —The best brands of Tobaccos, Cigars, &c.
Novelties in Pipes, Walking-sticks, and other articles.
V
ICTOEIA
PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO
PRICES.
PORTRAITS; —
Carte de Visits 10/- per dozen
~ ~ 7/6 per half-dozen
Cabinets 25/- per dozen
~ 17,6 per half-dozen
MULTIPLYING CAMERA;—
6 Bon Tons 2/6
16 Gems 2,6
Open from 9 a.m. till 5 p.m.
Entrance-VESTIBULE, VICTORIA THEATRE,
JWLTT STREET.
SYDNEY PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
178 Pitt-street.
A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
Cheapest and best House in Sydney for
PIANOS ORGANS HARMONIUMS
&c>
A. and C. HUENERBEIN have again been awarded the
W
S FIRST PRIZE 5
M FIRST PRIZE m
FIRST PRIZE 1-3
p_, FIRST PRIZE
a) FIRST PRIZE ft)
rtf M
M N
pn at the ffl
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION,
for the
WORLD-RENOWNED BLUTHNER GRANDS
WORLD-RENOWNED BLUTHNER GRANDS
In addition to this A. and C. HUENERBEIN have
again been awarded the
W
£3 FIRST PRIZE 3
M FIRST PRIZE m
Ph FIRST PRIZE 1-3
c. FIRST PRIZE w
tr> FIRST PRIZE w
03 t-H
M N
pi, for the pj
FAMOUS BLUTHNER COTTAGE PIANOFORTES
SOLE AGENTS -A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
178 Pitt-street.
A. and C. H. have just unjiocked a superb lot of
PIANOFORTES
by
Bluthner, Kaps, Rouisch, Mannsfeldt,
Erhardt, Biese, Neumeyer, Kriebel
Wittig, Winklemann, &c., &c.,
All iron-braced and bound. Guaranteed to withstand
the effects of this changeable climate.
PIANOFORTES by
Aucher Bord, Anchor Frere, Erard.
MONTHLY PAYMENTS TAKEN
for any Instruments.
HARMONIUMS by
TKAYSER, ALEXANDRE, KRAUSS.
ORGANS by
GEO. WOODS, PRINCE, PELOUBET, &c.
A. and C. H. have also for sale, cheap,
TWO CATHEDRAL HARMONIUMS,
two manuals, 16 stox>s, foot pedals.
Letters promptly attended to.
Old Pianos taken in exchange.
PIANOS TUNED, REPAIRED, AND REGULATED
A. and C. HUENERBEIN,
187 Pitt-street (opposite Victoria Theatre), 178,
INSPECTION RESPECTFULLY INVITED.
R S. SPENCER,
of the
VICTORIA LUNCHEON & SUPPER ROOMS,
201 PITT STREET
(next Victoria Theatre) ,|
Knowing the aversion which many Ladies and Gentle-
men have to remaining in town after the theatres are
closed to have supper, has made arrangements whereby
anyone giving an order early in the evening or day can
have joint, fowl, ham, tongue, or whatever he or she
pleases ready cooked for them to take home with them.
THE FIRST TO THINK OF IT—THE FIRST
TO DO IT.
SEE THE WINDOW!
N.B. This is not restricted to suppers, but cooked
meats, etc. can be served and obtained ax ant time.
Suppers, Oysters, etc. as usual.
Cleanliness, civility and cheapness combined.
Discount Tickets, entitling the possessor to six meals,
extending to any period of time, for Five Shillings, may
be had at the cash counter.
Note the Address—
-201 PITT STREET.
fJ|HE GREAT WAXWORKS* EXHIBITION.
NOW OPEN, opposite the Victoria Theatre, Pitt-
street. Just ARRIVED, from New York, THE
EIGHTH WONDER OF THE WORLD—Miss Millie
Christine, the two-headed Nightingale, a Lady with two
heads, four arms, four legs, and one body.
Admission Is, children half price.
Open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
ASONIC HALL.
WEDNESDAY EVENING,
May 12,1880.
M. J. MEILHAN’S
FAREWELL CONCERT.
M. MEILHAN will be assisted by the best
artists in Sydney.
Tickets at Messrs. Elvy and Co.’s, and at
Nicholson and Ascherborg’s.
Plan of hall at Elvy’s, where seats can now be
secured.
Reserved seats, ss. ; unreserved, 2s. 6d.
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
H
ENRI KETTEN,
the unsurpassed and unapproachable.
ENRI- KETTEN,
the NE PLUS ULTRA OF PIANISTS.
ENRI KETTEN.
the FRENCH RU3ENSTEIK,
ENRI KETTEN,
the GRANDEST PIANIST IN THE WORLD.
ENRI KETTEN,
IS COMING.
ENRI KETTEN,
the unsurpassed and unapproachable.
ENRI KETTEN,
the NE PLUS ULTRA OF PIANISTS.
ENRI KETTEN,
the FRENCH RUBENSTEIN.
ENRI KETTEN,
the GRANDEST pianist in the WORLD.
ENRI KETTEN,
IS COMING,
JH E A
Lessee ... M
TEE
E O YA L!,
, Mr, Samuel Laaar.
Business Manager & Treasurer
Stage Manager
Mr. Jas. E. Kitts;
Mr. Geo. Warde.
EIGHTH WEEK and CONTINUED SUCCESS
of
LYSTEE and GARNER'S
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
WEEK
SECOND
of
BLOW POE BLOW.
THIS EVENING,
And every evening until further n®rice,
Will be given BYRONS favourite Comedy-drama,
BLOW FOR BLOW.
Character's by
THE LONDON COMEDY COMPANY.
Scenery by Mr. George Gordon.
ALTERATION OF TIME.
Doors open at 7 ; commence at 7.45.
Prices as usual.
I C T O E -I A THEATRE.
Stage Manager Mr. James H. Rainford.
STILL HOUSES CROWDED
FURORE INCREASING
EXCITEMENT INCREASING
INTEREST SWELLING
ROUND AFTER ROUND OF APPLAUSE AND
LAUGHTER.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT
NEW BABYLON.
OUR EXCELLENCE ENDORSED
by the largest audience ever assembled in the
■ OLD VICTORIA.’ .
The event of the Australian Dramatic Year for 1860 is
NEW BABYLON.
EVERY NIGHT
the audience testified their approval by applause and
cheers till the act drop had to be raised throe
times on the
MIRACULOUS COLLISION SCENE,
causing the greatest enthusiasm with its thrilling
incidents,
being without doubt the grandest and most realisticever
produced on any stage in the southern hemisphere.
THE CAST
includes the best and most carefully selected Company
of Artists that has ever appeared together on any stage
in Sydney, the parts allotted to each being peculiarly
suitable.
From the Profound and Erudite Philosopher
to the
Hardworking and Worthy Artisan,
all heartily testify to the wonderful production of
•THE NEW BABYLON.’
It is the most attractive drama ever written.
The COLLISION on the ATLANTIC
is the best piece of mechanism and painting ever pro-
duced.
Tattersall’s, with its Sale of Horses.
Cremome, with its Dancing Platform.
Goodwood, with its Grand Races
The Thames Embankment
and the
Seven Dials by Night.
are pictures of
REAL LIFE, only to he seen bv witnessing the
NEW BABYLON
The honest and independent Working Man quits his
“itoil with a smile, when ho has determined to
bring his family to see
THE NEW BABYLON.
The Fashion and Beauty of our great city nightly adorn
our auditorium when attending
THE NEW BABYLON.
It is, therefore, the talk of the Block, and discussed in
the Studio and the Workroom.
)urs is a Tide of Triumphant and Unalloyed Success.
NEW BABYLON. NEW BABYLON.
NEW BABYLON.
NOTICE.—Those of our patrons who were unable to
;aiu admission owing to the crowded state of the
lieatre, can have their money returned, or use the
icket any night during the week.
~ ili ' *
Free list suspended—Press alone acknowledged.
Box plan at Elvy’s, where seats may be secured in
Ivance. .
ELLY AND LEON’S
OPERA HOUSE,
comer of King and Yorlc-streets.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, May 8,
GRAND OPENING NIGHT.
KELLY and LEON'S
GRAND NOVELTY
and
DRAMATIC COMBINATION!
UE E N
Lessee
Look out for future announcements.
S
T H E A T E E.
And STILL
Mr. M. Hegarty.
SEVENTH WEEK
of
SUCCESS SUCCESS
ME. DAMPLER,
LILY and ROSE.
TO-NIGHT, Friday, May 7,
and until further Notice,
“The New Drama, in five acts and 6 Tableaux,
DRINK DRINK DRINK DRINK
dapted to the English Stage by Charles Rcade, Esq.
ALL NEW SCENERY by Mr. KIN CHELA
(The Theme of General Admiration,)
The QUARREL in the WASHHOUSE.
The First Temptation to Drink in the
GARDEN SCENE.
The Fall from the Scaffold caused by
DRINK.
Starvation in the Snow—one of the
BEST SCENES ever PLACED upon any STAGE.
' The Groat Moral Lesson
DRINK.
COUPEAU Mr. DAMPIEE
Nana (with song) ... Little Rose Dampier.
Dress Circle, 8s; Stalls, 2s: Pit, Is. Reserved Seats
Nicholson and Ascherberg’s.)
LIDDY, Business Manager.
1 BEAT
SIX DAYS’ TOURNAMENT
GO AS YOU PLEASE.
PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT.
The
FIRST GREAT SIX DAYS’ PEDESTRIAN
CONTEST,
ever ORGANISED in AUSTRALIA
will
COMMENCE on MONDAY, May 31.
First price ... ... ... ...£lOO
Second prize ... ... ... 50 x
Third Prize ... ... ... 25
ENTRANCE FEE, £5, which will he (received not
later than MAY 20, at PUNCH’S HOTEL, by Mr.
EDWARDS WOLFE, Promoter and Manager, to whom
ALL COMMUNICATIONS should be ADDRESSED.
LOOK OUT TOR FUTURE ANNOUNCE
Me NT.
Agents for The Bulletin.
SYDNEY:
■ Clarke, Pitt-street
Mrs. Kirby, Pitt-street
a Wallace, King-street
iT Palin way. King-street
?' rleesou. 719 George-st. J. L. Berghocfcr, Pitt-st.
*V u we Hill, George-street Scliueberger, Oxford-st.
.. Spragg & Adams „
■ — Laphaiu ~
G. Barkeij Sussex-street
Thorsby, Erskine-street
J. Walton, Railway Station
t \V. Clarke
ff g. Cole
jortlou & Gotch
" George-st. west J. Cooper, Railway Bridge
burner, Brickfield Hill ■ — Pierce, Williain-street
SUBURBAN AND COUNTRY:
AKMIDAI.E — NaRRABBI —
H. Mallani 0. Hanssmau
Newcastle-
ASHFIELD—
W. J- Banks
Bathurst—
H. Bridges
Bega —
0. Welby
Bodalla —
W. Brock
COOTAMUNDKA—
J. Percival
Bchuca—
G. Fosdyke
Fobbes—
E. Chapman
Gekmaxton —
T. Brown
Glenlnnes —
F. Marshall
GOULBUUN—
J. Walsh
Gcxnedah —
Fitzgerald
Lambton —
J. Firth
Lismore —
Jones
Maiti.and (West)—
C. W, Clarke
Morpeth—
James Maher
Mudgee—
W. Hall
INTERCOLONIAL:
Melbourne — Brisbane—
Mauders & Co. „ Gordon & Gotch
Stanthorpe (Q.) —
J. F. Williams
Hale Williams
F. Alcock
Newtown —
E Bray
North Shore—
Deacon & Son
N icholson Bros.
Orange—
R. Lessell s
Parramatta —
G. W. Green
J. Reeve
Petersham—
— Thompson
Port Macquarie—
J. J. Fenu v
Rvde —
R. Young
Scone —
M. F. Asser
Shoalhaven —
Wicks
Singleton—
J. P. Quinn
Wagga Wagga—
C. H. Daniel
Wattle Flat—
L. Grimwood
Wellington (n.s.w.)-
W. Booth
Young—
G. F. Oil
W. Yard
A
USTEALIAN
MUTUAL
SOCIETY.
ESTABLISHED 1819.
PROVIDENT
HEAD OFFICE—PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OLDEST MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN
AUSTRALIA.
DIRECTORS*
The Hon. John Smith, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
John H. Goodlet, Esq., Deputy-Chairman.
Robert Saddiugton, Esq. I Isaac Ellis Ives, Esq’
Robert J. King, Esq. I S. A. Joseph, Esq.
CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER :
Dr. W. F. Mackenzie, L.E.C.P. (Edin.), 5, Lyons
Terrace.
ACTUARY: I SECRETARY
Morrice A, Black, F.I.A. | Alex. J. Ralston.
Extract from Post Magzzine (Loudon) of 6th De-
cember, 1879, on the sixth Quinquennial Report of the
Society:— . . ; ‘lt is, as a whole, tho most com-
plete statement ever issued by a Life Company, and
affords an incontestable proof that the tale of singular
success it tells is tho result, not of chance, but of prac-
tical and theoretical ability, governed by sound judg-
ment and prudence.’
The Commercial World (London) of 2nd February,
1880, says;—‘ No British Company of any ago can vie
with the Australian Mutual, which, during the 50 years
of its existence, has received in interest a larger amount
than it has been called upon to pay in claims.’
ACCUMULATED FUND. THREE MILLIONS
STERLING.
IONS, PRIZE MEDAL TAILOR,
ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Whose success is attributed to his PRACTICAL SKILL
in catering for the million at such REASONABLE
PRICES ns to enable every working man to dress well
and fashionably, while those with more money at their
disposal can wear so many extra suits at the same
reasonable rate. viz. :
VERY CHOICE TWEEDS, 100 patterns, suits, to
measure, 55s
FANCY DOESKIN SUITS, 635, worth 90s
BLACIf DRESS SUITS, to measure, 81s, worth £6 6s.
Who will not avail themselves of this cliauce of
GETTING MEASURED at ZION’S TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT ?
DOUBLE-BREAST SUPERFINE FROCKS, 45s
DITTO FANCY COATINGS, 35s
MORNING DRESS COATS, in fancy coating and black
cloth, 255; worth 63s
FANCY TWEED TROUSERS, all sizes, 10s 6d, half
their value
BLACK CLOTH and DOE TROUSERS, 15s, to fit all
sizes
FANCY and WHITE MARCELLA VESTS, 6s 6d
SILK COATS. Mob’s and Boys’, 9s 9d
CRICKETING TROUSERS, 12s 6d and 15s to measure
WHITE DRESS SHIRTS, ready for use,. 3s 4d, or 35s
per dozen
AND ALL MERCERY EQUALLY CHEAP.
System of self-measurement, with samples, to eve
part of the country, post free.
OUR CASH SYSTEM IS WELL KNOWN.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Do not mistake the premises—
WARSAW HOUSE,
409 GEORGE STREET.
THE ONLY ZIONS IN SYDNEY.
gUY YOUR BLANKETS IN TIME,
DO NOT PUT OFF UNTIL TO-MORROW
WHAT YOU CAN DO TO-DAY.
EDWARD HORDERN
(the original firm of the name),
668 BRICKFIELD HILL,
nowhere else,
INVITES the ATTENTION of the LADIES of NEW
SOUTH WALES
to
THIS SEASON’S SHIPMENT,
of
BLANKETS, BLANKETS, BLANKETS,
imported by him
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
SNOW WHITE, PURE WOOL, EXTRA WIDE,
“ PLENTY to TUCK IN.”
NOTHING CAN EXCEED the COMFORT, LUXURY,
and
SWEET REPOSE PRODUCED
by a pair of
“EDWARD HORDERN’S”
BEAUTIFUL SNOW-WHITE WHITNEY
BLANKETS,
Prices from 4s 6d to 35s per PAIR.
, ORDERS from the COUNTRY promptly and faith-
il'Ry executed. All goods packed in EDWARD
HORDERN’S well-known style, SECURELY IN CAN-
ESTABLISHED 1823.
No Branch Houses anywhere.
ATLAS FOUNDRY and ENGINEERING COM-
PANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler-
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
'■'Opporsniiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
lanne and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashiug, Mining,
Jun’ 1 ) s * ai ‘d all other descriptions of machinery,
'Hn latest improvements.
-N.B.—Ciuuings executed with despatch, and best
Price ijueu mm; vkl metiU.


Department of Public Works. Railway Branch,
Sydney, April 16,1880.
TO QUAEEYMEN AND OTHERS.
TENDERS will be received at this office until 11
o’clock a.m. on TUESDAY, the Ist June, 1880,
from persons willing- to contract for the supply of 30,000
tons of Cube Sets for the Government Tramways.
The Sets must be of approved hard, tough, and
durable stone, hammer-dressed to the following
dimensions, viz., 9in x 4in x 5, delivered in Sydney
wherever required at any place where Tramways may
be constructed within a radius of three miles of the
Circular Quay.
The supply will be required as under: —2000 tons
within four weeks from date of acceptance of tender,
4000 tons every subsequent four weeks until the whole
contract has been completed. Contractors may tender
for the whole'quantity in one lot, or for smaller
quantities of not less than 2000 tons, in which latter
case special arrangements will be made for the rate of
supply. "
Contractors must state in their tender the quantities
they are prepared to supply, and the price at per ton.
Samples of the stone, with the name of the locality
where they have been obtained marked thereon, must
be deposited in the office of the Superintending Engi-
neer, Elizabeth-street. and from whom further parti-
culars may be obtained.
Contractors will be required to deposit with the
Colonial Treasurer a sum equal to 10 per cent, of the
total amount of their tender as security for the due
performance of their contract.
Payments will be made monthly at the rate of 90 per
cent, of the value of all materials supplied to the
satisfaction of the Superintending Engineer, and the
remaining 10 per cent, will be paid on the proper
completion of the contract.
Tenders must be endorsed, ‘ Tenders for the Supply
of the Cube Sets for the Government Tramway,
Sydney.”
The Commissioner does not bind himself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
CHAS. A. GOODCHAP,
Commissioner for Railways.
O U N D E Y ’ S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
is very much stronger than the same not Consolidated.
The reason is very .simple. The great pressure brought
to bear on the leaf crushes the small cells which con-
tain the essential strength and real flavour of the tea,
and which is to a great extent lost or wasted where
loose tea is used.
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA.
cannot be adulterated.
An immense saving is made by using
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED
or
COMPRESSED TEA
As much strength is drawn out of the Tea in five
minutes as can be drawn out of the same Tea not
Compressed in five hours. The tablet is so divided that
the consumer can calculate to an ounce how much should
be used in a week or a mouth.
Mr. Cardwell date Secretary of War) expressed his
opinion that the English Government must ultimately
adopt this method of solidifying its large stores of teas.
Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his speech at the banquet
given in his honour after his return from India, said it
was one of the most valuable improvements in modem
commissariat plans.
General Roberts is now using it at Cabul, having sent
specially to England for a fresh supply.
The 2nd Battalion of the Rifle Brigade used this cele-
brated Tea at Winchester, and when moved to Gibralter
four years ago discarded the ordinary teas, and have
continued to use
GOUNDRY’S
CONSOLIDATED TEA
ever since.
The Arctic Expedition under Sir George Nares used
the Tea, and acknowledged the advantage of having Tea
so easily stored, whilst still retaining its strength and
flavour.
Bushmen and Private Families will find it invaluable.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
To be obtained from
WILLIAM TAYLOR and CO.,
Wholesale Druggists,
175, Pitt-street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for the Australian Colonies.
OR AND AGAINST
“FREETnOUGIIT”:
A Monthly Illustrated Journal
Devoted to Arguments on
FEEETHOUGHT, SPIRITUALISM, MESMERISM,
CLAIRVOYANCE,
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
Published on the 15th of each month, beginning unth
the 15 th Februarxj, 1880.
PRICE— 9d. Per Copt.
Published by E. CYRIL HAYILAND,
BOX 152, G.P.0., Sydney.
The name “ FEEETHOUGHT” has been chosen as
being a word under which a wide margin may be
allowed for discussion.
Papers have been promised by eminent men AGAINST
Spiritualism, &c.; and well-known writers will argue
IN FAVOUR of it, so that the subject will be well
ventilated.
Well-authenticated Phenomena will find a place in
its pages. The latest and best instructions as regards
holding of seances, mesmerism, &c., will be given.
Notices of public mediums and speakers, arrived and
to arrive in the colony, with reports of their doings,
will be published, and everything will be done to make
“ Feeethocght” a vehicle for thought in its freest
sense.
TO BRAY FOR YOUR STATIONERY
It is the cheapest shop in the colonies.
Note the address: —
E. BRAY,
Stationer and Bookseller,
Newtown Road.
■Jjl IKE IRONS,
Nickel-plated,
And will not rnst.
Also, with Ormolu and
Cut Steel heads.
FENDERS,
Suitable
For tile Hearths
Or ordinary Fireplaces,
Of the
Latest designs.
F. LASSETTER & CO. (LIMITED), GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
rj H E AUSTRALIAN
(Now in its Fourth Volume),
PUBLISHED Ist OF EACH MONTH,
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
ALL BOOKSELLERS.
THE MOST POPULAR MAGAZINE OP THE DAY.
ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTOTYPES.
CONTAINING
Tales, Sketches, Essays, Poems, Clippings, Reviews,
Rambles, &c., &c.
Also, Among the Advertisements,
TIME TABLES FOR FERRIES, MAILS, TRAMWAY, AND
’BUSES.
Almanac, Phases of the Moon, New Lectionary, &c.
Send 12 Stamps for Specimen Copy, and then Subscribe, if approved.
t
THE THIRD VOLUME JUST COMPLETED.
E. CYRIL HAVILAND, Publisher and Proprietor.
No. 1, LITTLE GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
WINTER NECESSITIES.
VASES
For the Dining Room,
For the Drawing Room,
For the Breakfast Room,
&c., &c.
HEATING STOVES
For Public Schools,
Churches,
Dwellings,
Of improved American
Manufacture.
Si
a
THE SYDNEY GARDEN PALACE VASE.
(Manufactured for the 1880 Season.)
RTH U R
CU B I
157 (late 203) PITT STREET, SYDNEY
MISSING FRIENDS AND NEXT OP KIN ofet™
PRIVATE INQUIRIES CAUTIOUSLY CONUP-rSS
CERTIFICATES OBTAINED OF BIRTHS
and MARRIAGES. ’
COPIES OF WILLS PROCURED.
DURING THE YEAR 1879
253 INQUIRIES WERE INITIATED.
Of these 172 were satisfactorily completed
26 were withdrawn for various reasons
21 were unsuccessful or abandoned
31 were in progress.
IN SPECIALLY PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS
most intricate cases have met with marked Success *
AGENCIES in Great Britain and Ireland, Unit l
States, Continent of Europe, Australia, and No
Zealand.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only! n »
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink ‘ 5
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made a
Speciality. 1 “
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
Cr UNS ’
V 9
JJIFLES,
J^EVOLVEES
PRICE MODERATE. QUALITY GUARANTEED.
C. COWLES,
Practical Gunmaker,
411 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.)
RMSTRONG’S PECTORAL CHERRY BALSAM.
An elegant preparation for all affections of the Pul.
monary Organs. This is the best known PREVENTIVE
FOR THAT fatal DISEASE, CROUP, as well as the
most successful remedy for Coughs, Colds, BEON-
CHITIS, Whooping Cough, the Hacking Cough of
CONSUMPTION, Hoarseness, Tickling in the
THROAT, and ASTHMA.
R. B. ARMSTRONG, M.P.S.,’
Family Chemist and Apothecary,
Wholesale & Retail Druggist,
466 GEORGE STREET (opposite the Market), Sydney.
JS. ABRAHAM’S PILLS (DANDELION).
• Registered.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY.
Free from all noxious drugs, viz., Podophyllin, Calomel,
or Mercury.
No pill is so efficacious in promoting digestion,
strengthening the stomach, correcting acidity, prevent-
ing or removing headache, giddiness, &c., arising from
costive habit, debilitated stomach, or torpid liver. They
require no change of diet, and the most delicate con-
stitution may take them with safety.
Invented only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory, 431 George-street, Sydney.
Be careful not to get imitations.
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
, SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia; —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase!
or a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you bw
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List :
No. 1. —For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3.—Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD-LANE, SYDNEY.
&
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, arid the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTE.bL and
CO., Sole Agents.
SYDNEY: Printed and Published by John Hayne.:
and J. F. Archibald, Sole Proprietors, at The
Bulletin Oliice, 107 Castlorcagh-street.
CW. E O B E E T S’
• SINGLE BOTTLE- DEPAETMENT,
Market-street.
Very superior old Port Wine, for invalids,
6s per bottle.
Pure West India Eum,
6s per imperial quart.
THISTLE BLEND,
and other
Choice Whiskies.
The geeat noetheen hotel.
(Late “ La Flore Australienne”)
12 CHAELOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
THOMAS M. DAL VEEN, Proprietor, begs to inform
the public generally that he has entirely renovated the
above premises as a first-class Hotel and Luncheon
Booms, which cannot be excelled in any house in the
city.
Terms Strictly Moderate.
AND HOESES HOTEL, MITTAGONG.
Within three minutes of the Eailway Station.
Me. P. STANTON, PEOPEIETOE.
*** Buggy always in attendance at the station.
Visitors from the metropolis may be certain of
finding the very best accomodation at this well-known
hostelry.
First-class sport with the gun can be had in the
immediate neighbourhood.
O E ALL DESCEIPTIONS OF
MEDICINES
GO TO
S E L P E,
CHEMIST,
85 OXFOED STEEET,
Metropolitan stakes consultation,
1880.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Distribution as follows :
First Horse ... ... £lOOO
Second Horse ... ... 400
Third Horse ... ... 200
Starters (divided among) ... 200
Non-starters (divided among) 200
£2OOO
The consultation on the above is now open (on usual
terms) and closes as early as possible.
Constituents are requested to forward exchange on
cheques and stamps for reply.
Application to be made (BY LETTER ONLY) to
E. E. JONES,
TattersalTs Club, Sydney.
ICENSP VICTUALLER S’
ASSOCIATION
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
President:
Mr. J. B. OLLIFFE.
The object of the Association is the
CONSERVATION
OF THE
INTERESTS
OF THE
LICENSED VICTUALLERS
Throughont the Colony.
Communications may be addressed to the
SECRETARY or the PRESIDENT.
