

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.—No. 71.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 4, 1881.
Price—3d.
k bulletin.
SATUEDAY, JUNE 4, 1881
Pestilential Sydney.
Bt virtue of the City Improvement Act, the
Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney has been enabled
to do useful work in commanding the demolition
of some of the worst human piggeries in the capital
of New South Wales. But the limits of his power
are yet too circumscribed. He has authority to
sweep away hovels: it is requisite that he should
have authority to sweep away whole sections.
Good houses huddled together may be quite as
pestiferous as wretched hovels with plenty of
space and air around them. After all, there is
probably not in all Sydney any domicile so sordid
as many of the huts in which shepherds and bush-
men are accommodated on some stations, or as
squalid as the hovels in which whole families of
selectors are housed. The pleasant earth is a
grand deodorizer, and fresh air the most effective
of antiseptics. Given plenty of space and plenty
of air, and architectural defects will not seriously
affect the health of town dwellers. Old Sydney
wants a despotic ruler, with a Baron Hausse-
MANN. The buildings
which jostle and shoul-
der each other in what
are now known as, soci-
ally, thb lower quarters,
need pulling down en
hloc, and replacing so
that the sun, which
“ shines upon the just
and on the unjust,” may
also "shine upon God’s
poor as well as upon his
rich. But it is not Old
Sydney alone that de-
mands attention. There,
cure is required. More
especial regard is de-
manded for New Sydney
—for those extensive
areas as yet hardly
built upon, which are
every day being par-
celled out and sold in
minute patches at the
auction rooms. The In-
stitute of Surveyors has
rendered good service by
specifically calling atten-
tion afresh to this
matter. The health and
decency of the next gene-
ration will be sacrificed
to the greed of land-
jobbers in this except the
law step in and raises
its powerful hand to
restrain the iniquity.
The facts are known to
everybody. The owners
of paddocks of a few
acres from half-a-dozen upwards, or specu-
lators who acquire such blocks merely for re-
sale, slice these areas into minute patches which
they offer to working 1 men and others on ap-
parently tempting terms. The profits on these
transactions depend largely upon the smallness of
the areas which people can be induced to purchase
and upon managing to sacrifice the least possible
space for streets and necessary alleys. The Sur-
veyors’ Institute points out that in a good number
of instances, in subdividing blocks for sale they
are peremptorily instructed to mark out roads no
more than thirty feet wide, and lanes propor-
tionately narrow. The allotments themselves are
measured out by feet and inches, and their con-
tents may be reckoned without going out of poles
and perches. There has already been sliced up in
this way around Sydney an area equal to or
probably in excess of that which is covered by the
metropolis of Great Britain. The future capital
of N.S.W. is being planned out, not with the
grandeur of conception befitting the destiny which
awaits it, but with the sordid idea of screwing the
last half-penny of profit out of the design. This
s surely a case in which the Legislature owes to it-
self, no less than to the country, to step in.
Prevention may yet be possible, cr at least euro
not so difficult as it will be hereafter. There
has been deliberately planted out a pestilential
Sydney, a city in which mean building will
shoulder mean building, in which thoroughfares
will be lanes, and lanes mere alleys. Into the
densely-packed buildings of this New Sydney, nor
air nor light will ever penetrate. Drainage is yet
unthought of. Human life, human comfort, is not
regarded. All warning, all experience is reck-
lessly thrown aside and trodden under foot in the
scramble for gain. Old Sydney, with its narrow
and tortuous streets, its absence of architectural
vistas, and its defective drainage, has been con-
demned often and constantly. Those who were
responsible for laying it out have been censured,
and their want of foresight blamed. But the
earliest rulers were sagacious compared with our
latest. They could not possibly foresee the
grandeur and progress which the discovery of
gold and the conversion of a supposed wilderness
into the greatest grazing ground in creation were
destined to bring about. Yet to them the citizens
owe the noblest of the city reserves, and some
public buildings not contemptible. But now.
when every colonist is alive to the career which
lies before Australia, and looks forward to the day
when the chief cities will rival in extent and
importance the greatest of the Old World and
America, it is permitted to any fellow who can
raise money enough to possess himself of a few
acres in a suburb, to place obstacles, which here-
after may be practically insuperable, in the way
of the capital of New South Wales ever being
other than a congerie of mean streets and
huddled buildings.
The English Princes in Australia.
What marvels half a century unfolds in the
annals of a great nation ! If one took the trouble
of dividing into intelligible epochs the narrative of
events, as they most directly affected civilization,
from the first sound of the curfew bell in England
to the round of cheers which greeted the arrival
of Queen Victoria’s grandsons on the shores of
Australia the other day, he would be able to catch
from each era its true spirit and tone. The task
would, possibly, be not an easy one, but it would
amply (if honestly executed) repay a good deal of
trouble in the way of research and comparison. It
would enable him to set up mind-marks of British
progress, and discover at intervals gleams of the
bright but silent stream which, for eight hundred
and twelve years, has been slowly refreshing and
purifying a large section of human society. He
would find that, not from sanguinary civil and
foreign wars, nor the struggle of Eight against
Might; not even of Mind against Ignorance (for
this kind of thing has occurred everywhere),
sprung the genius of British freedom. • That will
be found to have derived its origin from the native
vigour and moral characteristics of the old Anglo.
Saxon race. Through centuries of ordeal this com-
plex combination of intellectual power and physical
energy passed unscathed through the process,
at each stage becoming more purified, and other-
wise manifesting its progress at various intervals.
Take central figures of certain eras—not
kings, courtiers, warriors, or politicians, but
workers in the mines of literature, science, and
art—and we shall find “ shining and burning
lights ” to illume and cheer us on the way road of
historical enquiry. From Chaucer to Caxton,
from the latter to Shakespeare, from the golden
age of Elizabeth to the silver days of good Queen
Anne, and thence through the Georgian to the
Victorian era, we shall find the true visible signs
of a mighty people’s progress. We are probably
only at the beginning of a still more marvellous
series of events. Assuredly the trammels of many
evil prejudices and cruel traditions are being in
our own day burst asunder. Consider one set of
facts. George IV. was the first King of England
who made a peaceful visit to Ireland after seven
hundred years of “ connexion,” at a time (1820)
when Australia was hardly known outside the official
and scientific circles of England ; and yet Australia
grew to such importance within half a century
of that event that his grand-nephew, the Duke of
Edinburgh, visited these shores. As if to show
that still closer relations between the mother
country and her southern daughter were in
process of formation, two Royal Princes of England
are now in Australia—not, it is true, as guests,
but as midshipmen on board one of the vessels of
the new squadron. They are simply prosecuting
the system of education that has been
determined for the formation of their character.
But here occurs an idea of remarkable
suggestiveness. What a change must have
occurred in the spirit of the times within so
short a period, when an education of such
kind should have been the one selected for the
grandchildren of a British monarch! It is
probably solely due to a solemn exercise of judg-
ment on the part of their royal father, the Prince
of Wales. When he had emerged from that
shadow of death which lay so heavily upon him,
some years ago, at Sandringham, he became “ a
new man.” This was noticed and noted at the
time, and has been often thankfully acknowledged
since. He certainly soon gave proof of an
awakened sense of responsibility in the education
of his two eldest sons. His mind seems to have
shrunk from exposing them to the risks of private,
collegiate, or university training, in England or
Germany. In sending them to sea, as the saying
runs, he gave at once proof of his wisdom and his
paternal solicitude. What dangers, despite of all
ordinary precautions, would beset them at Oxford
and Cambridge, at Bonn, or under the tutorship of
half-a-dozen dominies at Sandringham or Windsor
Castle! Healthful life on the “ mighty deep”—
the discipline on board a man-of-war —the rever-
ance taught to be due to authority, and enforced
by regulation—the prosecution of science, while
not neglecting the accomplishments suitable to
“ princely gentlemen”—
all these and other con-
siderations wisely deter-
mined their youthful
career, and they are now
old and wise enough to
be thankful for the plan
that has been adopted.
They are not the least
likely to be spoiled while
amongst us, because
they will not be allowed
to fall into the snares of
the spoilers; nor prob-
ably would they submit
to the process if left to
themselves. There is no
doubt a veritable para-
dise of snobbery and
servility in these “ de-
mocratic communities
but there are at the
same time (and vastly
in the majority) men and
women of the true Eng-
lish type, who can give
expression to loyalty and
affection without being
shadowed with a sus-
picion of cringing or any
other form of meanness.
The best thing to be
done is to leave the royal
middies to enjoy them-
selves in their own way,
without official or other
intrusion on their time.
Prince Albert Victor
(the elder) was born at
Frogmore, Bth January,
1864, and baptized at Buckingham Palace. Prince
George Frederick was born at Marlborough House,
3rd June, 1865. On completing their primary
education, under private tutors, their “ seafaring
life’’began—doubtless a pleasant one, but not
less likely to be productive of the best moral and
physical results.
THE BULLETIN.
Messrs. Haynes and Archibald have much
pleasure in stating that Mr. W. H. Traill,
whose article denouncing a public wrong has been
so effectual in remedying the evil complained of,
and who has heretofore contributed only to the
leading columns, has accepted the Editorship of
The Bulletin. It is believed that by placing
every department of The Bulletin under the
supervision of a gentleman of Mr. Traill’s repu-
tation and experience, improvements will be
effected which will result in The Bulletin
making its way into every household in the
colonies where it is not already to be found.
(Prince George Edward.)
(Prince Albert Victor.)
THE ROYAL MIDSHIPMEN.


FROM THE SHOULDER.
Dolgourouki’s Price.
Two hours after Alexander of Bussia died, Dolgour-
ouki went south with her children. The fair fugitive
will not suffer poverty’s pang in her exile. Her Imperial
paramour dowered her very bountifully. There are
six millions sterling to her credit in a Berlin bank. It
was the reward of her complaisance. Six millions I
Magnificent figures 1 A monarch’s gift to his mistress !
But whence gathered ? From the toils and tears, the
labours and sorrows, the hunger and heaviness, the
weariness and pain of the million suffering people.
Skimmed off by a father’s hand; squeezed out by a
monarch’s will! While such things are is it any marvel
that many murmur and some go mad; that poor
Bousakoff clasped death to his own heart while crush-
ing the life from his country’s tyrant, and perished
willingly in the realization of his own wild dream P
A Gentle Judgment.
There is certainly no ambiguity about the opening lines
of the last circular to the magistrates concerned in the
Dimond licensing business. The natural and reasonable
course of action was “forced” upon the Government.
Of course it was forced upon them, forced upward as
some rank fungus groweth by reason of the sweltering
heat of corruption below ; forced out, too, by the un-
hesitating condemnation of the worthy Chief Justice.
It was beyond all question of excuse. Their offence was
rank ; it stank before high Heaven, and their punish-
ment was—what was it ? Let us endeavour to learn.
They were tried and convicted, and the Judge awaited
the lost word ere adjusting the fatal can. Naturally
they excused themselves, as did Adam with
the new-born shame upon his face, as did Cain
with the murder looking out from his eyes, as
did “ Iket the Jew boy" with the filched
repeater dangling from his shirt. And the plea
was heard, and the Judge gathered himself up to smite,
and this was the manner of his smiting : “ The propriety
©f removing all those gentlemen who so acted from the
Commission of the Peace has been forced upon the
attention of the Government, and I am to say the
Government have refrained from this extreme step
because— ’’ But we need not study the following of
that because. There was no punishment inflicted ; so
vast a surface ef broadcloth scared backward the
descending stroke. “Your conduct was wholly illegal,
in the highest degree improper, and wholly inde
fensible,” says the Chief Justice. “ But ye shall still
be magistrates," answers the autocrat whom the
fiat of the judgment seat is powerless to affect.
Another Brand New Law!
The old law-makers of centuries ago have never hod
adequate justice done to them. Their sagacity and
foresight was of a character to which we can make no
pretension in these degenerate times. They took a
mental survey of the probable development of events
for the next five hundred years, and—making allowance
for human fallibility—provided for all contingencies-
In the reign of Bichard the Second society was in a
slightly different condition from that to which it has now
attained. Feudalism was still in force, and the law of
might was the law of right. It was the custom of all
classes to go about armed, and in cases of dispute he
who could collect the largest following had the best
chance of success. But with a wisdom which cannot
be too highly admired, the legislators of that day saw
that they must make some enactment for the benefit of
posterity, to provide against forcible possession. This
law forbade entry by force of arms, and at Wagga Wagga,
the other day, the sagacity of its formulation was made
apparent. A man is stated to have forged a transfer to
a selection, and though it was proved that the signature
was not genuine, yet when the right owner attempted
to take possession he was held to have contravened the
provisions of this old law of Bichard 11., and to be
really the guilty party. That he was morally in the right
was not held to be germane to the matter. He was dealing
with;the law, and not with justice; and law, in the per-
son of Bichard 11., said he was wrong. It is a wonder
the judge did not dig a little deeper into antiquity and
rely boldly on the code given to Adam.
A Secret of Power.
What is the secret of the power of the coalesced
knights f Of their ability to manage at will that queer
political olla pedrida, the Legislative Assembly of New
South Wales ? and of their consequent capacity to make
the Colonial Office believe that Parkes-cum-Bobertson
is the ruling destiny of the mother colony of Australia 7
We think the conundrum is capable of an easy solution .
and soluble on this maxim of De Cormenin’s—“ Men
without morality are wonderfully well calculated to
govern assemblies without principle.” Of course De
Cormenin referred to political morality. Now it is
just because PAREES-cum-BoBEETSON lacks every sort
of consideration—of that kind of consideration, at least,
which is the fruit of elevated probity, or consistent
political character, or dignified life —that “it" is
capable of manipulating an Assembly which as a body
never considers. And an Assembly can’t consider un-
less parties in it are defined; unless there be an Oppo-
sition with a policy, to criticise the Government pro-
gramme. When may we hope to chronicle the formation
of an Opposition ? Till one is formed the Assembly is
in just such case as was Bright’s Skye terrier, with
both head and tail beyond distinct recognition.
The Rule of Contrary.
There’s something radically wrong somewhere. We
confess ourselves utterly unable to understand it. Here
was a case—the Gipps v. McElhone libel case, to wit—
wherein proceedings were instituted by the plaintiff, the
writ served, counsel retained, Court convened, the jury
assembled, and—the whole thing fell through. Some
idiot, judging from recent events, will here probably
shriek out that the evidence against the defendant was
too overwhelming. Let the interjector take a back
seat. The simple fact is, there was no case for the
jury, and plaintiff was non-suited. “ Of course!’’ some
other unsophisticated individual untaught by the
ordinary run of experience in these matters —will here
remark; the decision arrived at being the natural
result. Well, if people like i*, let it be a matter of course -
But when we come to consider that this is perhaps the
first libel action instituted in N. S. Wales in which the
plaintiff was non-smted under similar circumstances,
we may well be startled, even at a natural result. We
recollect a case, not long ago, in which the Judge
summed up against the plaintiffs, where the evidence
for defendants was irresistible, where the jury even
added a significant rider to their verdict on the strength
of that evidence, and where the ndtural result of its
publication was notorious —and yet the defendants were
let in for an almost ruinous sum. We revelled in
that verdict, simply because the result of that
action was consistent. But the market is beginning to
fluctuate. Our pet institutions are abjuring their con-
ventional traditions. There will soon be no certainty
about any action of this kind whatever, in this colony.
Now, actioning a fellow for libel is one of our indigenous
industries. It is, or has been, more than moderately
lucrative. If it continue to be menaced by a danger of
this sort the consequences may be serious. Let the
advocates for protection to native industries look to it
If neglected, this particular branch will languish, and
become eventually but a miserably precarious source of
emolument. And then the next step may be a reform
in our beloved libel law itself. In that dire event let
chaos at once ensue.
Gratuitous Advertising.
The strides which are being made in the science of
advertising are, indeed, marvellous to contemplate.
The word science is used advisedly, for those who have
made a study of the subject know full well that the
value of any species of advertisement can be deduced
with mathematical certainty. The advertiser who is
fortunate enough to obtain the command of the leading
columns of a reputable paper is indeed to be envied;
but if, in addition to this, that which he wishes
advertised is so self-evidently good that it is impossible
gravely to say a derogatory word against it, so that
those wishing to defame it are reduced to making fun of
that which has no fun in it, then, indeed, is the
advertiser’s fortune made. The Liberal Association of
N.S.W. is in this felicitous position. The Wagga
Wagga Express has graciously given it a whole column
advertisement in its leading article, and granted the
further favour of trying to extract fun out of it.
Among the scathing witticisms which the editor has
blasted out of his brain-pan is the following: “ Another
base of the association is * aspiration after the highest
morality,’ which probably means that Mr, G. M
Stephen is to be despatched on a breathing tour with
a new piece of red flannel." The profundity of this joke
cannot but command admiration. The connection
between red flannel and morality is quite too subtle for
the ordinary understanding.
Only A Female Vagrant!
One of those social incidents that occasionally obtrude
themselves on the notice of the general public to dis-
turb its self-satisfied equanimity, comes from Mel-
bourne during the past week. Some of the papers
complain of the “ sending away from the Melbourne
Hospital of a dying woman, after administering gal-
vanism as she lay moribund in a wagonette.” The
correspondent of a contemporary, commenting on the
fact, adds that “as the jury at the inquest did not
appear to think there had been neglect, no record of
neglect was set down. But then she was only a
vagrant, whom nobody owned.” Let us hope there is
some little straining after effect in this last sentence,
and try to believe that every care the circumstances
warranted was bestowed. The case itself, however, is
one of those that unmistakably call for the intervention
of some of our “ stout-hearted philanthropists.” There
is a better field for their exertions in this direction than
any that even coffee-palaces and such unremunerative
undertakings can supply. Only a female vagrant I
How many among the class may there not be, in that
inchoate society which peoples the colonies, who may
once have adorned the firesides of bright and happy
homes! A man out of his element is a loss to society,
doubtless, but a woman fallen from her legitimate
position is indeed a deep degradation. The poor
creature who sits shiveringly at our street-corners or
in the parks may have been destined, with the aid of
that original delicacy of taste which all true women
have, to make cheerful the hearth of some honest son
of toil. That now unkempt hair, in all its loose and
gray disorder, and that deeply-lined face with its
haggard expression, may have been intended —the one
to catch the gladsome sunlight of a joyous home in its
once golden tresses, the other, with its lost feminine
capability of expressing sentiment, to bear comfort or
encouragement to a depressed or desponding husband
or brother. Those eyes, with their filmy daze of
death, should perhaps now be laughingly beaming on
the playful games of sportive children. A woman on
the streets is, or should be, an awful spectacle. The
motive cause must have been great to have so forcibly
transplanted her from her accustomed walk in life.
Have our practical philanthropists no help at hand for
their forlorn and ship wrecked sisters ?
The Mission Militant.
The explanation given by the Eev. Mr. Brown
at the Wesleyan Conference at Adelaide, respecting the
strong measures adopted by him to protect the mission
nnder his care, would fairly be regarded as manly, can-
did, and straightforward, did it proceed from a man of
any other profession. According to his own showing,
Mr. Brown, on learning that some of his teachers and
their children had been treacherously slain, organised
reprisals, and himself headed one party of raiders. His
own party returned, according to his report, which we
do not doubt, with bloodless hands. They had carried
fire and devastation with them, but not slaughter. But
the other party had been more efficient, and it is to be
noted that Mr. Brown bases some part of his justifica-
tion npon the effectual nature of the expeditions.
Scores of natives were slaughtered. There can be no
difficulty in agreeing with Mr. Brown that but for
these energetic measures there would have been a far-
ther sacrifice of lives among the teachers and traders;
that the direct effect of the severe lesson taught has
been to make the survivors more amenable to missionary
influences. But admitting all this, one stands amazed
and appalled at the exposure of the illogical character of
the rev. missionary’s mind. He carried the war into
the enemy’s country, as a defensive measure. This is
precisely the plea which Bismarck and Yon Moltkb
advanced the other day when they contemplated crush-
ing afresh the reviving power of the French. It would
save bloodshed in the long run. It is the plea of every
combatant —an excuse which may be raised to justify
any war, and to cloak even the most callous ambition.
But, apart from that, the argument that, had he not
gone forth to conquer, he and his people must have
died, sounds strangely at variance with the conception
which the public has been taught to hold of a mis-
sionary’s role. They have been pictured as going forth
with their lives —not their revolvers —in their hands.
Self-defence is no part of their published tenets, not to
speak of retaliatory raids. They are supposed to go
forth ready, almost anxious, to die. Their blood is to
testify from the ground ; savage nations are to learn
practically what is the g ospel of Him who restrained
the weapon in Petbr’s hand, and said, "They that use
the sword shall perish by the sword.”
A Game of Pyramids.
The Melbourne correspondent of the Herald is a cynic
of the deepest dye. He is nothing if not cynical, but
the point he seems to batten on and worry up with
special glee is what he stigmatises as “ Great Pyramid
lecturing.” Now, all our great men—political and
religious—are horn orators. They may be said to have
graduated on the stump. If a man can’t " talk a bit,”
with us he is out of the running. So that when we find
an outsider like this lettiag up on any branch of the art
we are very properly and promptly disgusted. But our
Diogenes somewhat irreverently attributes the dis-
covery ef the familiar institution known as “Great
Pyramid lecturing ” to a bush missionary out of work.
Having excoriated this devoted individual after his own
merciless fashion, he next proceeds in cold blood to let
up on the institution itself. Now, we know that
lecturing is a paying humbug both here and in Mel-
bourne. Any one who mounts the the stump is duly
qualified, ipse facto, to discourse authoritatively upon
any subject known to the heavens above or the earth
beneath, though he has just “ crammed ’’ for his in-
formation from some rudimentary text-book, and in a
week afterwards he will be as ignorant thereof as the
most illiterate of his audience. We object to its
being shown up, nevertheless. Yet we are silent before
the unparalleled temerity of this courageous executant.
Only fancy 1 for anything Diogenes knows, that very
one of the legion of sub-editors who is to “ judiciously
tone down ” his copy, or that proof-reader who is so
engrossed in his occupation as to leave it uncorreeled,
may at this very moment be holding forth in some
dismal, whitewashed school-room on the very topic
at which he, the correspondent, so cynically
scoffs. Why, the thing is preposterous. The
whole business forcibly reminds us of Bret Harte’s
hero, who sat on the roof of an elevated out-house
inaccessible to his anxious parents, and from that coign
of vantage laughed to scorn his own flesh and blood -
Diogenes is gambolling on the edge of a crater.
A Trilemma.
The flights of Mr. Dan. O’Connor’s oratory sometimes
resemble those of a rocket. They are very brilliant and
fiery while they last, hut the subsequent descent to the
region of hard fact is depressing. The fluent invective
in which Mr. O’Connor is reported to have indulged
when referring to Sir Henry Parkes the other day
sounded famously, but it was lamentably humiliating to
have to deny the credit of it just when it appeared to
have reached its mark. The affair has become exasper-
atingly complicated. If Mr. O’Connor did speak as he
was reported to have spoken, and what he said was true,
he stood in the position of a public benefactor. That
the head of the Government should be making use of
his official information to fill his pockets would have
been a depth of corruption calculated to undermine the
foundations of our representative institutions. The man
who detected such atrocious scoundrelism, and who,
scorning to shelter himself behind the screen of Parlia-
mentary privilege, boldly took his stand as a private
citizen and denounced the iniquity from the platform,
would have been entitled to claim the warmest gratitude
of every man, woman and child in the colony. Bet the
man who should splatter out charges so tremendous
merely to create a momentary impression, and to round
a sentence, not having at the time any substantial facts
to go upon, would merit a condemnation more
severe than any which the existing law provides.
Confidence in the integrity of men in office
is the very root and essence of representative
institutions. To shake that confidence without
stern necessity constitutes a crime against the
commonweal. We are not going to intrude between
Mr. O’Connor, Sir Henry Parses, and the Daily
Telegraph in the game of cross-purposes which they
have to play out. If Mr. O’Connor did say what was
ascribed to him, and believed it to be true, bnt was not
prepared to prove it, he has been precipitate to a
degree which justifies a withdrawal of public confidence
from him. If he said it, careless whether it was true or
not, it was infamous. If. on the other hand, he spoke
on what was sufficient evidence, and then ran away
when challenged, he was guilty of a cowardice which
should demolish his reputation as a man charged with
the care of the public interests. Again, if he said
nothing of the kind, the damage done to him by the
journal which ascribed to him the expressions chal-
lenged, inflicted upon him a wrong, and upon the
Premier an injury almost incalculable. These are
points which Mr. O’Connor, Sir Henry, and
the Telegraph may settle between them. For
our own part, we do believe that Sir Henry Parkes
asa public man is immeasurably superior to Sir Henry
Parkes as a private individual, and it would need more
than the loose aspersions of a man who is represented
scuttling off like a boy that ventures upon a
runaway knock to convince us that there is a Minister
of the Crown in New South Wales capable of so gross
a malfeasance in office as that which Mr. O'Connor, or
the Telegraph, whichever is responsible, has ascribed
to the present Premier. One thing, however, is im-
perative. The matter must be cleared up. No
Premier can afford to treat lightly an impeachment so
tremendous; no member of Parliament to have his
good faith and veracity subjected to so formidable an
aspersion; no newspaper to a denial so calculated to
shake confidence in its reports.
It is stated by legal experts that Henderson and
Co., of “ Ferret” notoriety, are wrongfully in custody,
and that, should they be properly defended, their con-
viction is next to impossible.
Up North great dissatisfaction is expressed with
the Queensland mail service. Correspondence reaches
Brisbane via Suez three or four days ahead of that by
the British-India boats. Letters via Suez are charged
3d. extra postage, and newspapers a proportionate
amount. One firm of news-agents had to pay nearly £5
additional postage on their periodicals. Apparently
this is done to compel people to use the new line. By
the way, the A.S.N. Co.’s ordinary coasting steamer
beat the mail-boat from Townsville to Brisbane last
trip.
The nsually-qniet and slow-going cathedral city
of St. Andrews in Scotland has been in a state of
ferment—all caused by the time-honoured observance
of Kate Kennedy’s Day. It appears that after an
interval of seven years the students of the fourth year
in the St. Andrews University lately celebrated Kate
Kennedy’s carnival. The last time they ventured to
hold the festival was in 1874, but the orgies so excited
the ire of the University dons that they suppressed it
by threats of deprivation of scholarships, etc. This
year Kate was attired as a lady of the period, and she
perambulated the streets of the ancient city in a
carriage and pair. She was chaperoned by her usual
retinue of cavaliers. Highlanders, sailors, Indians, etc.
and she received the customary homage from large
crowds of spectators. The “undergrads” who tO'>k
part in the demonstration have been “rusticated ’’ for
a year; and the students are so indignant at this action
of the Senatus that they are asking counsel’s opinion as
to its validity.
SOCIAL
The first Assembly ball at Wilcannia has been
fixed for this evening, 2nd June.
A series of entertainments will be given at
Government House, Melbourne, during the stay of the
young Princes.
The Scandinavian citizens hold a bal masqud in
aid of the sick fund of their society on 7th July, in the
Masonic Hall.
Some exciting scandals may be expected shortly
through the medium of the Melbourne Divorce Court,
the gay Lotharios holding good rank.
The handsome Prince Louis of Battenburg is
the social polar star in Melbourne at present. Even
“ Plevna Ey an ” is temporarily obscured.
A most popular sportsman is to be married at
Campbelltowa on 6th iuat. to a Sydney lady. No less
than six marriages are to take place there during June.
The Victorian cabmen strongly object to the
people’s ministr y running special trains to the Ex-
hibition ball. They say it's an unfair interference with
their “ perq.’s."
The house-warming given by the members of the
Union Club, Brisbane, on entering their new premises
will take place some time this month. The Austrian
Band ball at Brisbane comes off on the 7th.
The N.S.W. Artillery Band will (weather per-
mitting) play in the Botanic Gardens every Wednesday
afternoon during the winter months, from 3 to 4.30.
Why not on Sunday afternoon). The first performance
took place yesterday (Wednesday) afternoon.
A niece of a dashing English Pasha in the
Saltan’s service, who distinguished himself in the
Eusso-Turkish war, is about to be married to a -young
lawyer. The Glebe Point belles are delighted—at the
removal of their hand somest and most formidable rival.
It has been decided that the annual ball in aid
of St. Vincent’s Hospital shall be held on a date to suit
the convenience of the officers of the detached squadron,
to whom invitations have been sent through Commo-
dore Wilson. Lord Augustus and Lady Loftus will be
present.
A fancy-dress ball is to be held at Roma on the
14th instant in aid of the local hospital. The ladies
are making extensive preparations, and it is expected
that their dresses will be good, but it is thought that
the gentlemen will in this respect be in the background,
as they will for the most part part appear as stockmen,
sailors, &c.
The monster ball to commemorate the closing
of Melbourne Exhibition is likely, it is said, to prove a
fiasco. 10,000 tickets were issued, and only one-fifth of
these have been sold, so far. The Age, in detailing the
arrangements, said that the best wines would be pro-
vided by the caterers, but that any person who wisned
for colonial champagne, &0., could have it by asking.
No doubt they could.
The Freemasons of the Burrangong Lodge of St.
John give a grand ball on 24th June. Over 300 invita-
tions have been issued. The Burrowa band has been
engaged for the occasion—which alone is sufficient, says
an apparently sarcastic correspondent, to ensure the
complete success of the affair. There are already
rumours of other festivities to follow. By the way, a
return ball is shortly to be given to the Mayor of Yass.
POLITICAL POINTS.
It is officially stated that Berry will not accept
the Victorian Agent-Generalship so long as he retains
the confidence of his party.
A joint petition from both sides of the Victorian
Assembly, to remove David Gauuson from the chair-
manship of Committees, is proposed.
The Maryborough Reform League requests Mr.
Berry to accept an all-round £lO franchise, and £lOO as
the highest qualification for a member of the Council.
At the meeting at Friedrichsruhe, some five
months ago, Prince Bismarck is believed to have as
sured M. de St. Vallieeve that Germany would not oh
ject to a French occupation of Tunis.
At Northampton, the Republican,
polled 545 fewer votes than at the last election. Mr.
Corbett, the Conservative, polled 83 more votes than
the highest Conservative score made at that election
The Right Honorable the Minister of Justice in
the Dominion Parliament called an opponent “afoul,
false, malicious, and a convicted slanderer and liar.”
M’Elhone and Buchanan are only wasting their talents
here. They could command portfolios in Canada.
Vanity Fair of April 16 says that the pro-
secution of the Freiheit, and the very arbitrary
measures by which it was initiated, amount to a serious
blunder. Everybody knows and feels that if the
articles complained of had been directed against a
Saltan of Turkey instead of a Caor of Russia nothing
would have been done. There is nothing in the
Freiheit so strong in tone or so inhuman in feeling aa
is contained in the Duke of Argyll's books and speeches
on Turkey. Is Herr Most to be prosecuted because M.
de Giers and Prince Bismarck insist on it, while the
Duke is allowed to go scot-free ? Is it only writings
against Russian despots that are to be called in
question ? Englishmen don’t like foreign governments
to order the suppression of English newspapers, or to
forbid ns to extend hospitality even to the most
obnoxious political culprits. There will be trouble
over the matter.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Tom”: Verses noble as ever. You have
the inflatus. So has our paper basket. Thanks for
your sympathy. Write us something more —something
that we could not in justice reject. A cheque, for
example " A Believer in Comfort and Happiness
We agree with you. Will look up the facts, and sooner
or later take up the subject, and not put it down till an
impression shall have been made “Wide Awake”
(Tasmania): Much obliged “E.D.H.": Thanks for
your letter. Would like to publish the extract, but
have no space “Wallaby": Thanks for your
trouble; but we hardly see where the joke comes in.
“ Bandi coot ”: Excellent material “ J. 8.”:
Were all your lines up to the standard of the
opening four they would be most acceptable; as matters
stand, however, the verses express a touching senti-
ment, shared by many, in a by no means original or
elegant way “ William ”: As you say, the “ par.”
doss partake too much of the nature of a cheap adver-
tisement. Besides, even if it did not, Bulwer Lytton
has written something much better on the same subject
in “What will he do with it?” “W.H.8.”: Many
thanks “K.C.8.”: Capital information, most inter-
estingly conveyed " M.C.S.": Do you then really
expect us to insert such a statement ? “H. K.”: We
are always glad to hear from those who write on subjects
of general, not merely local, interest “J.D.”: Will
you kindly again send your address, have mislaid your
letter “ A.T.K.”: If you read The Bulletin you will
notice that we do not ordinarily publish such matter ,
“ E.E.L.”: Glad to hear from you. Send us, however, a
paragraph which we can publish “S.P.”: Thanks
for the suggestion, “John Collins” (Brisbane): Re-
ceived “ E. 8.” : Much obliged for you exertions.
“Subscriber”: Had you ever read The Bulletin
carefully you’d have seen that we don’t deal in suon
things “A Constant Churchman”: Next week... ...
“Billy Barlow”: Thanks; will read “Sweet Six-
teen” : Held over “ Scamp" : Received “ C.V.”:
Will read and consider.
The motion nisi for a new trial in The Bulle-
tin libel ease will be argued before the Pull Court this
(Thursday) morning.
Messrs. H. R. Woods and Co. (H. R. Woods
and Arthur Bowdoin), having purchased the printing
business of Messrs. John Woods and Co. are making
large additions to their already extensive plant with
a view to running the largest and most complete
printing and bookbinding the city.
2


REDMYRE ]
BEOMTB]
GOOD LAND. CH
ELEVATED POSI
CLEARANCE SALE a
ON THE GROU
of Mr. Alderman SAUNDERS SC
as per PLAN and LITHO’S., i
DEAN STREET
THE CAUSE
WATER STREET
MARLA STREET
EDWARD STRE;
and
COOK’S RIVER,
adjoining the improved propertie
SIMPSON, MILHAM, and MAGI
LIVERPOOL ROAD
PUNCHBOWL ROAI
and the EMERALD 1
EVERT LOT MUST :
EVERT LOT WILL ]
BUY GOOD and CHEAP LAN:
POSITIONS, and on a Liberal P
•a- toerens’t:
W TERMS LIBI
*** Nearly 80 Lots toCh
HAROIE AND
Will sell at auction, ON THE GI
SATURDAY, 4t
The unsold lots in Mr. ALDERM
division at REDM
NOTE THE TERMS -One-third
monthly payments; NO 1
•** Omnibuses will convey purch
wood Station to the ground o:
LITHOS. can be obtained
REMEMB
THE AVOCL
WILL
TAKE FL
ON
ON THE G
AT 3 P.M.
NEXT SATURDAY A
MOST CHARMING ’S
and also
COMFORTABLE SUBUEBAI
That elevated and valuable subur
as the
WATERVIEW
FIVE DOCK
now owned and occupied by A. 1
commanding large fror
GREAT NORTH
IRON COVE ROA
THE PARK RESI
PARK ROAD
BAY VIEW ROAI
FIRST AVENUE
SECOND AVENUI
Nearly the whole of the Land ]
proved and cultivated, a large po
and in the different lots there can
fruit trees in full bearing, choice o
shrubs, and a large number of heal
«■ The subdivision is the firs
FIVE DOCK HE]
and the Sale affords unusual advar
of Suburban Allotm
The surroundings include the Pr
His Honor J udge Fai
Russell Barton, E*q.,
Burton Bradlev. E.-q.
W. S. Friend, Esq.
and others.
Near, too, are the Public Scho<
V The WATERYIEW ESIA
venient distance of the FIVE D
WHARF, and
ASHPIELD RAILWAY
Lithos. are now obtai
All the Lots can be easily
The pegs are numbe
Finger-posts are erected with n
Streets are turf-lin
And everything has been done
buyers to make the sale of the
WATERYIEW :
A MOST COMPLETE S
The scenery from the WATERS
very grand; the pretty peeps a
Blue Mountains, and the
country around mal
most attractive.
Adjoining the
WATERVIEW ES
is the large
Two of the Italian immigrants are the belles of
Campbelltown.
Detective Lyons gets a snb-inspectorship and
goes to Temora.
Mr. W. H. Mullen, of West Maitland, desires us
to state, with reference to a recent paragraph, that he
has taken into his service, not an Italian immigrant
and three children, but merely two orphans—brother
and sister.
M. Gastaldoni, of Vincenza, Italy, has invented
a new pianoforte, which can make the sound of each
key last as long as the player wishes, just like a violin.
And yet it is not a violin, but a pianoforte. Liszt,
Rubinstein, and other great pianists, say that quite a
new era in pianoforte playing begins with this invention.
During her recent visit to Paris, the Empress of
Austria rode a horse called “ Nihilist ” —a very inappro-
priate name to give a horse just now. “ Her Majesty,”
says Vanity Fair, “did not, in fact, leave a very
favourable impression behind her, and a well-known
Duchess was unkind enough to say that she ought to
give up riding and to study d’etre grand’-mere.
Mdlle. Sarah Bernhardt has been graciously
pleased to visit Niagara, and the French reporter who
is at her heels says that, struck by the splendour of the
spectacle, she burst into English and exclaimed,
“Buteful! Grand! Magneefcent!” On returning to the
hotel, she kissed a little boy in the passage, and wrote
in the visitors’ book, “How good of God to create
such splendid things! With enthusiasm—J. Sarah
Bernhardt.”
Once more the Russian police are taking the
lead in the path of liberty, progress, and civilisation.
Peter the Great shaved his subjects at the city gates ;
Catherine 11. ordained that no gentleman at an evening
party should get drunk before 9 p.m.; and Alexander
11. separated the serfs from the land. The new police
prefect of St. Petersburg, with the permission of
Alexander 111., has ordered the citizens to appoint an
Electoral College, who have chosen a City Council of
twenty-five.
Trade mark, Waltham, Maas. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts. U. S. A ,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANT, Waltham, Mass.—Any.
LATE SPORTING.
Barratt and Sir Charles have been scratched for
the English Derby.
The N.S.W. Coursing Club paid .£1164 in prizes
on account of the late Booty Hill meeting.
Mr. J. Bourke, of Scone, offers to run W. Coady
150 yards for £5O a side. Callaghan, of West Maitland,
and Prentice of Gunnedah, ore negotiating for a 75
yards’ race, £lOO a-side.
A fast Queanbeyan youth, known as “ The
Novice,” and a blacks nith belonging to the same dis-
trict, fought on Queen’s Birthday—it is understood for
a wager. The battle was a tame one, for after three
rounds “ The Novice” gave in.
The “ young bloods” of Wilcannia held a hack
race on Queen’s Birthday. The event was won by
Parr's Deception—which animal, it subsequently
turned out, was hardly a hack, having trained for,
and won, two races at Menindie meet.
As Mr. Pile, of A delaide, has determined not to
retire from racing, neither First Water nor Spectre will
be sold. And by the way, racing in Adelaide seems to
be as expensive as anywhere else. In G. and H. Ben-
nett’s insolvency examination the other day, the elder
insolvent said that he had lost £lOOO in betting during
the last nine months; that he had drawn over £lO,OOO
from his business in four and a-half years; that his loss
on keeping race-horses was £4200 ; and that Simon
Bennett, a younger son, had drawn £l3OO from the busi-
ness without authority.
The Melbourne hounds had a most enjoyable
run, the first of the season, at the Warribee
on Saturday last. The field included the Master
and Messrs. Madden, Eobertson, Davis, Arthur Ander-
son, Martin, Shaw, Gill, Simpson, Eowe, E Miller, A.
Miller, W. Glasscock, J. Andenon, Warner, Peppin,
Peppin, junior, Eussell, Clark, Chirnside, and several
others. After lunch, at which the Messrs. Chirnside
acted as hosts, a start was made from Werribee Honse.
Several red deer were soon found, and one of them run
down and eaten by the dogs after a fast run of eight
miles over a fine grassed country with a few post-and-
rail and capped wire fences.
CRICKET.
A cricket match took place on Queen’s Birthday
on Moore Park between the Woollahra Volunteer Fire
Brigade and the Sutton Forest Cricket Clubs, resulting
in a victory for the former by 17 runs A match (the
last of the season) was played on Queen’s Birthday at
Balmain between the Perseverance and Balmain
Collingwood C.Cs. The former won by 8 runs. Scores:
82 and 74 respectively. The batting of Miller (22) and
McFarlane (10) for the P.C.C., and that of Fitzon (15)
for their opponents, was good. The bowling of Chip-
pendale for the P.C.C., and Kaler for the 8.C.C.C., was
effective. The Perseverance Club have, this season,
out of twenty-four matches, lost six, and made two
draws and two ties. The averages have been won thus :
first bowling, T. Chippendale; first batting, F:
Hinchy; second batting, R. Miller On Queen’s
Birthday, a North Yanko eleven beat the Narrandera
team by 62 to 38. The game was decided by the first
innings The Kent C.C. played a Picton Eleven on
the ground of the latter on Queen’s Birthday. Scores :
Picton, 53 and 39; Kent, 36 and 8 wickets for 58—thus
winning by two runs and two wickets On Queen’s
Birthday, Forbes beat Eugowra by three runs and six
wickets to spare The Croydon C.C. played 37matches
during the season, of which they won 18, lost 7, and
drew 12. _ They were defeated by the Penrith, Cumber,
land, Kingston, and Raymond Terrace Clubs, whom
they subsequently met and beat. The St. Peter’s
Surry, Oriental, Lome, and Alexandria are the names
of the other clubs at whose hands they have suffered
defeat. The highest score made by the Croydons in
one innings was 104, the lowest 21. The highest score
made against them was by Second Warwicks (151), the
lowest by the Albion C.C. (4). Dennis wins the first
batting trophy with an average of 11-8 runs an innings.
M. Carroll, M’Carthy, and O'Hara win batting trophies.
Dennis taken first bowling trophy with an average of
3-106 runs per innings. Bowtell takes second bowling
trophy with an average of 4-12 runs per innings
The Australian Surry and Clifton C.C.’s met at Moore
Park on Queen’s Birthday. Scores: A.S., 65; Clifton
(Ist innings), 20; 2nd, 23. Blackburn, for Surry, bowled
well, taking the first four wickets for 0 Alexandria v.
Croydon C.C., at Double Bay on Queen’s Birthday. The
local club won by five wickets. The Croydon were
unable to make any stand against the bowling of John
Macintosh and H. Ellis. Their first innings closed for
a total of 21, and the second for 43. The Alexandria put
together 50 in their first innings, James and John Mac-
intosh and T. Ridley getting into double figures, but
they lost five wickets in the second innings before ob-
taining the requisite number of runs to win. Dennis
was the most successful bowler for the losing side.
FOOTBALL.
The Unionjand Victoria Clubs met last Saturday
afternoon, when the former won, getting two goals and
two tries to their opponents’ one try. For the winners
the play of Cooper, Begbie, and Lees was very good
The football season has been opened at Rockhampton
......The Parramatta and Redfern football teams met on
Saturday at Parramatta, the former winning by two
goals and two tries to nil The Wallaroo and King’s
School Clubs met at Parramatta on Saturday last, and
a close match took place, resulting in a victory for the
Wallaroos by one touch-down The football season
was inauspiciously opened on Saturday at Adelaide.
Alexander Slight, one of the best South Australian
footballers, broke his leg The unfavourable state of
the weather on Saturday afternoon precluded the use
of the Association Ground for the football match
between the first fifteens of the University and Balmain
clubs, but the footballers, undaunted by the heavy rain,
played their match in Moore Park, The game resulted
iq a victory for Balmain by one try to nil. Only ten
men played for the University, while fourteen repre-
sented Balmain The Carlton and South Melbourne
Clubs played a football match on Saturday, on the
South Melbourne ground. The result was a draw, each
side bavin? kicked a goal The Parramatta first
fifteen opened the season on Saturday last in a match
with the Kedfem first fifteen on Parramatta Park.
Owing to the severe weather, the match was not so
interesting as was expected, neither team having their
full number. Parramatta played with fourteen men,
and Redfern with nine. Owing, probably, to the dis-
crepancy in numbers, the match was ridiculously one-
sided—the Parramattas being scarcely asked to play—
although the Redferns maintained a plucky and
determined game throughout. ft rained heavily
through the whole progress of the match, which
resulted in a win for the Parramattas—they having
secured two goals and two tries, and forced their
opponents to touch down twelve times. The Redferns
only forced the Parramattas to touch down once.
Teece, W. Byrnes, Hicks, and Stettler played well for
Parramatta, and Walker and J. Mulcahy for JRedfern.
The shining light from Parramatta does not shine in
wet weather The Parramatta first fifteen meet the
Glenhead first fifteen on Saturday on Moore Park.
Owing to no train leaving Parramatta for the city
between 12.10 p.m. and 2.40 p.m., it will be half-past
three before the Parramttta team will reach the
ground.
The Highbury Estate Croydon
The only estate on the suburban railway line of any
extent remaining, after the investments of the past
year, to pass under the auctioneer’s hammer, is the
Highbury Estate at Croydon, midway between Ashfield
and Burwood. The estate has been fitly named, as it
comprises the crest of a hill, and is about the highest
Imd between Sydney and Parramatta. Highbury com.
mands a view of the whole of Ashfield, of Five Dock,
and the T>arramatta River, with Pennant Hills and
Hunter’s Hill beyond, and likewise of Burwood and the
other suburbs in that direction. On a clear day a
splendid view is also to be had of the Blue Mountains.
Highbury adjoins the railway station, and comprises
what must be the township of Croydon. It is in fact
a large township site that is for sale. The date
is Saturday 11th June, and the auctioneers are
Messrs, Hardie and Gorman.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Abdul Rahman and Ayoub Khan are fighting.
The Cotopaxi sailed from Plymouth on May 28.
Strong agitation in Poland against landlordism.
Signor Depretis has formed a new Government
in Italy.
Hamburg and the Zollverein have entered into
a commercial treaty.
The Lord Mayor of London has invited all the
Agents-General to a banquet.
Lord Kimberley means to prevent future finan-
cial irregularities in Western Australia.
The Right Hon. Sir Patrick Adam, G.C.8.,
Governor of Madras, has died after a short illness.
The wool demand is brisk, and the prospects
hopeful. So far, 16,000 bales have been catalogued.
The extreme Home Rulers are organising a de-
termined opposition to the progress in committee of the
Irish Land Bill.
A most influential committee has been formed
in London in connexion with the proposed statue to
Bari Beaeonsfleld.
The bodies of nearly 250 of the victims of the
late steamboat disaster in Canada, on Queen’s Birthday,
have been recovered.
Kettle, a prominent Land Leaguer, who re-
cently counselled resistance to evictions, has been
arrested. “ The empty Kettle," &c.
Gambetta has made a speech urging the adoption
of a pacific tone, in order that peace, necessary to the
prosperity of France, may be enjoyed.
Ireland in a terribly disturbed state, owing to
the number of enforced evictions and the stubborn re-
sistance offered thereto. In Leitrim 600 armed men
failed to protect the sheriff’s house from the fury of a
mob. Near Cork 12,000 of the peasantry resisted the
police and military and much bloodshed resulted. The
Land League is unceasingly active, and is stimulating
the tenantry to resist to the utmost.
Johann Most, editor and proprietor of the Lon-
don socialist paper Fbeiheit, has been convicted of
having published a libel justifying the assassination of
the late Emperor of Eussia. The paper was printed in
German with a blood-red border It contained such
passag es as “ Triumph, triumph ! One of the mos
abominable tyrants of Europe, whose destruction hast
long been sworn, was destroyed on Sunday.” It also
spoke of the Czar.as having died like a dog, and ex-
pressed the hope that the bold deed would inspire revo-
lutionary spirits with fresh courage. The jury recom-
mended the prisoner to mercy, on the ground that
numbers of the people of Eussia and Germany were
smarting under a sense of wrong at the hands of their
rulers.
LAST MINUTE.
A big bicycle tonrnament is on the tapis in
Sydney.
Gladstone says Ireland is disgraced by the
terrorism of the Land League.
A Galway farmer has been shot dead for non-
compliance with Land League mandates.
It is rumoured that there is a split in the
Imperial Cabinet over the Irish Land Bill.
David Henry, the Melbourne money-lender, is
coming to Sydney, it is said, to go into business. Joy I
A cable states that a terrible fire has taken
place at Tanranga, N.Z , half of which town was burnt.
An obvious reason is now apparent why Mrs.
Wilkie, who shot Mr. Norton, was not convicted of
murder by the jury.
The Newington Club beat theGlenheads at foot-
ball last Saturday, on the college ground, by three
touch-downs to two.
Mr. Bradshaw has resigned and Mr. Dicker
Hamilton (“Tout Cela") taken the editorship of the
Melbourne Sportsmak.
Mr. H. F. Delarue, the well-known jeweller of
George-street, a good citizen and a charitable man, died
early yesterday morning.
Messrs. Fiigg and Meikle row a double-scull
race with Messrs. Lockyer and Hanson, of the M.E.C.,
on Saturday, 4th instant.
The lately-imported stallion Champion of the
North, by Topsman, has been bought by Messrs. John
Frewin and Smith Bros, for £lO5O.
In a handicap sculling race on Saturday in
Woolloomooloo Bay, Mr. F. W. Fiigg (841bs) heat
Messrs. G. E. Brodie (401bs) and Brennan (281bs). The
latter collapsed early, the others making a desperate
finish.
Wilkinson, for the brutal murder of Michael
Menz and his daughter Mary Pumpa, was hanged by
Howard, at Albury, on Tuesday. He died instantly,
and before his execution denied his guilt, making
merely the very unnecessary admission that he had
committed many crimes—but no murders.
The Mastodons have made a hit at Newcastle.
The N.Z. Dramatic Company have closed their Grafton
season with “ Macbeth.” The South Company have
made a splendid hit at Wagga with “Pinafore,"
hundreds having been turned away from the doors on
Tuesday night. At Temora, Professor Nice is appearing
to crowded houses.
3


BRIEF MENTION.
Aboriginals are allowed to get drunk at Bega.
Who gives them the grog ?
The Singleton Argus threatens to shut up
shop unless the people advertise more freely.
No more rattling of bones over the stones. The
road to Waverley cemetery is about to be repaired.
In Russia they don’t have fireworks on the
Czar’s birthday. Some “ bungers ” are let off on his
death day, however.
The Lithgow publicans have raised the price of
drinks to sixpence each. The working men, so says the
local paper, are going to start a club.
It is said that Mrs. Hampson, female revivalist,
made £BO for 10 days’ work in Dunedin. And
yet there are still men book-canvassing I
Butters has come over from Melbourne and told
ns that our streets are perfection. Hesven help us,
what shall we do with our aldermen now ?
The D. T. says that “ the Irish riots bid fair to
involve a considerable loss of blood.” Just so. There’s
generally more blood than life lost in Irish riots.
Four Campbelltown men visited Bnlli on Queen’s
Birthday, and were found asleep on their horses travel-
ling at the rate of one mile an hour on the road home.
The students of the St. Petersburg and Moscow
Universities have opened subscriptions for a silver
wreath for the tomb of the Czar. Nitrate of silver, we
presume.
From the Herald Active girl, for two
months, must be clean; reference indispensable. 173,
Brown-street." Some people are eternally straining
after novelty.
J. S. Butters, in writing to the Argus, forgot to
mention anything about the Solomonic wisdom of the
City Council, and the enchanting beauty of the Town
Hall foundations.
A correspondent asks us whether it’s a fact that
a man who was formerly a prominent member of the
Civil Service, and is now in gaol, is allowed to get drunk
three times a week. We don’t know.
Moa bones, mixed with human remains, were
found the other day at Whitehead Bay N.Z., in such a
conglomerate that scientists are puzzled as to whether
the men ate the moa, or the moa the men.
We learn from the Evening News that a
Chinese princess is stopping at Sun Kum On’s. It’s
wonderful how quickly our contemporary’s reporters
manage to get information from Royal circles.
The Brisbane Botanical Gardens and the general
cemetery are the chief places of resort in the Northern
Metropolis on Sundays. The cemetery seems to grow
in favour with young couples—nobody knows why.
A Melbourne paper says that the final tableau
of “The Pirates,” entitled “ Britannia Triumphant,” is
“ specially appropriate to the visit of the Royal mid-
shipmen.” Let’s see. We did lick the Boers, didn’t we?
A certain fashionable Brisbane doctor says that
the cruellest “ knock ” he ever got was one which came
at 3 a.m., and which, when answered, was found to pro-
ceed from a belated individual, who wanted a “ pipe o’
terbacka.”
The climax of imbecility is found in the Har-
binger of Light, a Melbourne spiritist journal, in
which is printed a communication from the deceased
testator in the Lamont case, ordering his will to be
challenged.
A convenient “ friend ” tells “ Anglicanus ” of
The Churchman (who of his own personal knowledge
is of course quite ignorant on the subject) that ‘ “ shout-
ing ’ is a practice which owes its origin to the principle
of competition wrongly applied.”
Doesn’t such a disgraceful scene as that which
took place in the Central Police Court on Tuesday make
most people wish fora clean sweep of the roll of J.’s P.
and the dispensation of law, wherever practicable, by
white men—by police magistrates ?
“In a ten minutes’ walk down George-street,
from the Royal Hotel to the Post Office, I encountered
no less than 22 Melbourne men and three Melbourne
ladies," says J. 8. Butters, writing to the Argus. But
no Sydney men go to settle in Melbourne.
According to Melbourne Punch one of the mem-
bers of the Victorian Ministry says that he eats with his
knife because he likes it and it annoys other people to
see him doing it. He adds that he isn’t going to sacri-
fice one single badge of liberalism to please anybody.
A correspondent says that it would prevent
grumbling, do away with a deal of trouble, and stop the
clamour for season tickets were the fares on all exist-
ing tram lines and at all distances fixed at two-pence.
This system, he adds, has been adopted and found to
work well in N.Z.
The libel laws are getting the press into proper
subjection. A N.Z. paper has an erratum apologising
for having called the celebrated Roman Governor of
Judea, “ Pilot.” And this, too, before the news of the
attempt to ship Clarke Island on board the Potosi could
have reached that editor.
Liverpool papers are teeming with an account
of a fight between a man and a dog for a stake. The
biped came off victorious, but not before his four-footed
antagonist had removed the most prominent features of
his face. In other words, the man “ won by a nose.”
and both sides got the steaks.
In a Northern paper a Mr. Baldwin adver-
tises that he wants a respectable middle-aged man as
tutor to a family of children. The remuneration for
educating Baldwin’s circle is fixed at £3O per annum.
And yet some ignorant people will persist in praising up
education as a road to fortune.
The Mud gee Independent points out that
some time ago a complainant in an assault case re-
covered £5 damages, but His Honor Mr. Justice Fauoett
refused to certify for costs, on the ground that the ver-
dict of the jury showed that plaintiff should have
sought redress in one of the minor courts.
The present proprietors of the Adelaide Bul-
letin are Messrs. Roche (an ex-Catholic priest), James
Allison (the theatrical manager), W. B. Rounsevell
(Colonial Treasurer), Simms (the brewer), and Mr. F.
H. Linklater—formerly of Sydney—who says he’s going
to reform the paper on the lines of The (Sydney)
Bulletin.
Mr. Eoseby has taken to preaching. Saturday’s
Herald says : “ Primitive Methodist, Kent-street.—Mr.
J. Roseby, M.L.A., at 11; Rev. J. Penman, at 7. Pyr-
mont —Rev. J. Penman, at 11; J. Cooke, at 7. Balmain
—J. Ingham, at 11; Mr. C. Brown, at 7.” But who
can be surprised at this? From the churchyard to
the church is only a few steps.
The other day a certain country editor got
drunk and fell into a puddle, from out of which some
buxom country wenches fished him with difficulty. He
had just been writing a leader on the wreck of the
Tararua, and ejaculated, as soon as he felt himself once
more on dry land, “ S’pose ’ll have temarry one of (hie)
those gals fur savin’ me from wreck!”
The wreck of the Tararua has got the N. Z.
editors by the wool. Here is how the Herald com-
mences a leader about the earthquake at Ohio: —“ The
catastrophe of the Tararua has put many a family into
mourning in New Zealand and Australia, but a calamity
of a still more awful character is spreading consterna-
tion among the populations of Southern Europe.”
The other day 850 Chinamen arrived in Sydney,
and we were told that “most of them ’“were for New Zea-
land. Now isn’t it a fact that the latter statement, which,
by the way, some disinterested person kindly wired all
the way from Cooktown before the vessel arrived, was
merely a dodge for taking the New South Wales public
off its guard! How many of the Chinamen have gone to
New Zealand ? Eh!
The editors of the Windsor papers are at logger-
heads. One calls the production of the other “ The
Muck Rake.” The editor of the “Muck Rake” re-
taliates, calling the opposition paper “ The Threepenny
Sausage Wrapper.” The readers are having a good
time of it, and “ Fuller ” particulars shortly. We only
wish we were editing a paper at Windsor, with full
liberty to abuse the other fellow.
“ What, asks the Bega Standard, has become
of Sir Henry Parkes’ promises in October, 1879, to do
something for the wretched remnants of the aborigines ?
Ended in smoke. He can buy Aurora Vases and a two
hundred pound bed, but even the yearly dole of a blan-
ket for the blacks is not forthcoming. The blacks hung
about Bega all the week for blankets, and finally some
smart official sends the bale to Merimbula."
Another delightful trait of the festive Mongolian.
Land and Water says :—“ Divorce is common among
the Chinese; so common that a man may get rid of his
wives at pleasure without assigning any reason for it,
and women who have given the days of their youth to
their husbands constantly find themselves, in their old
age, cast off, and left to die of starvation." Thank
goodness only 820 of the fellows arrived last week.
Says the Zig-Zagger ; —“ A passenger who had
not paid his fare was hastily leaving a tramcar. Just
before alighting he handed to a fellow-passenger his
ticket, with a request that he would hand it to the
collector. The recipient, however, immediately after-
wards also left, and put the ticket into his pocket!
Could the force of meanness further go ?” Yes, it
could. Bringing in an iniquitous verdict and— bragging
about it. There!
People (other than booksellers) who don’t ad-
vertise in the regular way, but who pay newsrunners for
the privilege of defacing copies of The Bulletin with
rubber stamps, are informed that such stamping is an
infringement of our copyright and will after this notice
be prevented by legal process if necessary. If people
are allowed to print their advertisements on our pages,
by-and-bye they’ll perhaps want to print additions to
our leading articles.
Dancker’s Exchange Hotel, Melbourne, was
broken into last night, and robbed of £2 10s., a box of
cigars, and some private papers. The papers have
since been sent by post back to Mr. Dancker. The
envelope has, of course, been handed to the detectives.
Mr. Dancker has since advertised for the polite burglar
to call and receive his thanks, but up to the time of
going to press we have not heard of anybody going round.
The detectives are (of course) “ on the alert.”
Why didn’t J. S. Butters say something about
“our harbour,” in his letter to the Argus ? The only
words in his epistle which can be regarded as even a
distant allusion to the subject nearest our hearts is
that contained in his cautions reference to “ the picture
of blended natural and artificial beauty, I verily believe
unsurpassed in the civilized world.” However, his
view was obtained from the Exhibition tower, which is
near our harbour. We are therefore satisfied.
Mr. Morgan, the solicitor, and Mr. Russell, the
losing plaintiff in the great Day Dawn mining case at
Charters Towers, were bcrnt in effigy a few nights
back. Mr. Swanwick, barrister, the defendant’s counsel,
was carried through the town in a chair, preceded by a
brass band. Messrs. Morgan and Bussell prosecuted
Swanwick for creating a breach of the peace, but the
case fell through. The crowd in the Court House
hissed and hooted the complainants. Lively!
The other day Dr. Purcell, of Brisbane, said he
had cured a bad case of lockjaw —at any rate the
Courier kindly said so for him. This at once roused
all the small fry of the medical fraternity, who flooded
the papers with letters saying lockjaw was incurable,
and wanting to know how it was done. When they had
had a good fling, another leading medico let them down
very gently, and now Purcell, when they want to know
how it was done, half closes his right eye, and pats his
forefinger alongside his nose.
We agree with Mr. J. S. Butters on the cab
question. Why don’t the Corporation license a lot of
waggonettes ? It is true that in Sydney, should a
family of five want to go to the theatre, they have to
take either two or three hansom cabs, whereas a Mel-
bourne family can all go in one conveyance, the hire of
which doesn’t cost as much as that of a hansom. “I am
of opinion that 50 good waggonettes, with good horses
and civil drivers, would make a small fortune in
Sydney.” We think so too.
Some time ago the Echo, in its Zte-Zag column,
propounded what Dundreary would call a “ Fwench
widdlebut, as might have been expected, no solution
ever appeared. Here is the “widdle:”—“At a ball, a
couple retire to a conservatory. The enamoured youth
—(poor fool!) —pleads for a kiss. The lady writes on his
dance programme, ‘ B.C. mats T.C.’ The young man
couldn’t unravel the puzzle. Result, no kiss. Now,
what do the mystic figures represent ?” Can it really
be “ Baisez (moi) ; mats taisez (vows) ?"
The glowing picture of the commercial pros-
perity of Sydney presented in Mr. J. S. Butters’ letter
to the Melbourne Argus shows that the genial nature of
the energetic and speculative J. S.B has not been soured
by hard struggles and commercial reverses. But many
a man in these colonies will find food for melancholy re-
flection in Mr. Butters’ allusion to “ the glorious old
days of Victoria from 1852 to 1860,” and will recall the
poet’s words —“ O, those days that were when my beard
was black!—now I have only the days that are !”
Mr. J. Castle’s Florrie won the race for sailing
boats in her class at Grafton, easily. Elias Layoock,
his brother, and Castle were the crew. Since the event,
we are told that Elias and his brother have each re-
ceived a communication from the forensic owner of
“The Florrie,” in which these words figure promis-
cuously :—“ To consulting with you daring open-boat
sailing race as to the true ethics of aquatic navigation,
and the quantity of railway grease with which to lubri-
cate the sliding seat, £2 25.; to giving legal opinion
upon the respective merits of Tennant’s and Bass’s ales,
£1 Is. Total, £3 35.”
Thadeua O’Kane, of the Northern Miner,
still talks straight. In his latest issue he remarks that
“ the foul and obscene tirade uttered at the Council
meeting last Friday by the man was in keeping
with all his antecedents." The Miner expresses sur-
prise and disgust that any newspaper “ base enough to
publish such filth” could have been found, and remarks
that it has more than once remonstrated with the pro-
prietor of the other journal on “ the fatal facility with
which he allows every blackguard to pour into his
columns the grossest obscenities. The Press is degraded
by prostitution to such blackguards.” Now, Thadeus
doesn’t wear a mask in this little matter, but gives the
full names of his civic and journalistic foes. We
wonder how much the publication of this would have
cost in Sydney—even were it strictly true ?
Buat caelum! The Y.M.C.A. Gospel Tent is
for sale, and all because the Y.M.C.A. is unable to “ carry
it on.” We rejoice muchly at this, for on stormy nights
has not our frame been bereft of “Nature’s sweet
restorer,” through our soul being racked with the
blasphemous thought that the hurricane might at any
time swoop down and “ carry it off." We refer to the
tent, not our soul. And where would Sydney have been
without it (the tent)? Still, we fondly believed that the
Y.M.C.A. possessed a stronger spirit of perseverance
than this step shows —that, in fact, it pinned its faith to
the sentiment so beautifully expressed in one of
Kendall’s latter-day lines, “Never Jack-up!” When
we said, a little while ago, that the young men were
going to sell their tent to Cole, the circus m an, for the
purpose of a side show, the young men wept, and got us
to contradict the assertion. And now—.
One of the German papers remarks that in the
battles in Natal, the English have, “ for the first time
since the doubtful victories of the Crimean war, fought
—not against Hindoos, negroes, or Afghans, but against
Europeans—and have been beaten." England, the
paper adds, must either sink in a measure her military
or her commercial instincts. She cannot much longer
remain both Rome and Carthage at the same time.
There was hearty sympathy expressed in Germany for
the Boers.
Monsieur Howard, or M. Gately, or both, could
just now find employment in Russia. The recent exe-
cutions at St. Petersburg appear to have been disgrace-
fully conducted. The arrangements were primitive in
the extreme. The executioner is said to have been
drunk. He was at any rate incapable. There was no
drop. Death was therefore caused by strangulation.
The rope to which one of the prisoners was suspended
gave way twice, so that the wretched man was com-
pelled to undergo the agonies of death three times
over. These blunders probably arose from the inex-
perience of the prison authorities. In Russia capital
punishment is extremely rare. An ordinary murderer
is not executed He is merely sent to Siberia for life.
It is therefore only the regicide who is exposed to the
extreme penalty of the new Czar’s gratitude. But in a
semi-barbarous country improvements, when once
initiated, advance with giant strides. And we may
expect that by the time the Nihilists have acquired
thorough dexterity in dynamiting Despotism, the
hangman will have learnt to perform his melancholy
duties with comfort to the culprit and satisfaction to
the looker-on. It says much for our civilization that
we have such expert hangmen.
The Palmer Beefs.
Two Ballarat capitalists are about to visit the Palmer
reefs. By the way, we see that the Chance Co., May-
town, have crushed 65 tons, for a yield of soz. 6dwt. per
ton. The Ida Co.’s last crushing was 140 tons of stone
for 4740 z. retorted gold. This is magnificent. The
previous crushing of the Ida, 160 tons, averaged 2oz.
15dwt. 21gr.; the Queen No 1 South from 45 tons aver-
aged2oz. 18dwt. lOgr.; the Queen No. 3 South from 40
tons had an average of loz. 3dwt. 18gr. The Lady
Mary crushed at the rate of loz, and the King
of the Ranges Hoz. to the ton ; the Gang Forward
stone is equal to 2|oz., and the Last Chance
has run as high as 6oz The very latest is that
the Homeward Bound reef has returned 34ozs. per ton
(new reef, picked stone). The Just-in-Time crushed
2oz. Idwt. per ton. Of course, the Victorian reefs are
better defined, and carry a larger body of stone, while
there is, as a rule, less water to fight with than on the
Palmer. “But,” says the Cooktown Herald, “if
Ballarat, with an average yield of 9dwts. per ton, can
pay £35,716 9s. 2d. in dividends during one quarter, what
may we not expect when sufficient capital, population,
and machinery are introduced to develop the splendid
reefs of the Palmer, where, with present appliances, it
is lamented that ‘ one ounce per ton won’t pay ?’ ”
Messrs. Webb and Sons, of Bond-street, have
received another shipment of their new description of
hand-painted chinaware.
Mr. R. Morphet, who took an active part re-
cently in the early-closing movement, has opened a fine
tailoring establishment in Pitt-street, next Smart’s
Hotel, comer of Pitt and Market streets.
The new lines of teas introduced into this mar-
ket by the Asiatic Tea Company are meeting with a very
large sale. The tea has been found to possess such a
fragrant and delicious flavour, that the trade of the city
must inevitably drift into the hands of this new house.
The most neglected and dangerous platform on
the suburban line is that at Summer Hill. Besides this,
the accommodation for the station-master is disgrace-
ful. It is very strange that this should be allowed to
exist, when there is a fine grant of land at the platform
from the Underwood Estate for the purposes of a
station.
The vignerons of this colony are beginning to
find something like a good market in Sydney for their
wines. Aged wines of a good description have been
supplied to the city houses, and a vastly increased con-
sumption is the result. Messrs. F. Martin and Co., 105
Pitt-street, have just received at their cellars a consign-
ment of old wines from several of the principal vigne-
rons of the colony.
From a long article in the Scientific Ameri-
can we gather that a proposal has been submitted to
Congress for the lighting of the Capitol and grounds by
the electric light. The promoters say that they can,
by means of powerful lights, surrounding the dome of
the building, render interior lights unnecessary, and at
the same time dispense with all necessity for lamps any-
where in the streets of Washington. The total running
cost is given at £12,000 a year—the present means of
illuminating the Capitol costing annually upwards of
£22,000, the city paying £12,000 more for street
lamps. The aggregate illumination promised by the
new system is 20 times that of all the outdoor lamps in
Washington and all the lamps in the Capitol building
combined: or a light equivalent to bright moonlight
throughout the city, and diffused daylight in and about
the Capitol.
LATE THEATRICAL.
In the production of “ Faust” at the Gaiety
Theatre, the Montague-Turner combination have
jumped from ballad to grand opera in a single bound
Though not a heavy opera, like “ The Huguenots” or
“ L’Africaine,” “ Faust” is a work which severely taxes
the powers of all concerned in its representation—from
the primo tenore to the stage carpenter. Though not
pur et simple a spectacular opera, Gounod’s masterpiece
requires plenty of stage room and handsome decors in
order that its various dramatic points may be success-
fully brought out before the spectator. This being the
case, the opera suffers in no small degree from the
limited size of the Gaiety stage. This, however, is the
fault of no member of the company, and Mr. Turner is
entitled to great praise for the lavish manner in which
opera after opera is mounted.
* * *
On the night we attended (Tuesday) the house
was crowded to suffocation. Long before the perform-
ance commenced the well known black boards bearing
the legend “ House full—no room” were placed in con-
spicuous positions in the lobby, and the curtain rose
upon an audience as brilliant as it was enthusiastic.
The bar, by the way, mustered in great force!
one of its members sporting in the entr’ acte's
an overcoat with fur trimmings that was the
admiration of all beholders. The private boxes were
every one occupied, and all over the house the dead-head
element was pleasantly conspicuous by its absence. In
the course of the evening one or two inebriated indi-
viduals of the “picnic” order caused a slight dis-
turbance by uttering those insane ventriloquial sounds
which are the outcome of much glucose, but on the
offenders being detected by Mr. Bayliss, they were
promptly ejected. In the matter of encores the audience
exercised a considerable amount of discretion, which
was fortunate—otherwise the performance would not
have been concluded until the small hours in the
morning.
* * *
As was anticipated, Mr. Turner made an ex-
cellent Faust, singing the music all through with great
taste and finish, at times, indeed—notably in the garden
scene—rising to a standard of vocal excellence which
even his greatest admirers would scarcely have
thought him capable of attaining. In parts, however,
his acting left much to be desired, being void, in a large
degree, of that impassioned earnestness inseparable from
the character. His dress, though handsome, was in
indifferent taste, the bright blue and profusion of gold
and silver lace being at times rather suggestive of Cole’s
circus. Still, he looked magnificent, and during the
evening many a soft blue eye looked up from a bulky
operatic score and fixed itself on the stalwart figure of
the tenor with
“ A glance that would have thrilled the heart
Of Athens’ misanthrope.”
* * *
Miss Montague as Marguerite was superb, sing-
ing and acting magnificently throughout. Indeed, we
are disposed to regard this as the best thing she has
done this season. The lady’s success was complete, and
this is the more to her credit when we consider that the
part of Marguerite is, of all operatic impersonations,
perhaps the most romantic. The jewel song was beau-
tifully rendered, and was listened to with breathless
silence. To say more (as they often hare it in the
Freeman) would be “ to gild refined gold and paint the
lily.” We will, therefore, merely add that it is to the
interest of every music-loving person in Sydney to visit
the Gaiety and witness Miss Montague’s most re-
markable impersonation of the heroine of Gounod’s
beautiful opera.
* * *
The Mephistopheles of Mr. E. Parley was far
and away the most successful thing he has ever done in
Sydney. The warmness of this gentleman’s reception
testified to the pleasure the audience derived from his
efforts—vocal and histrionic. Mr. Templeton—to put it
plainly—made rather a “ mull ”of Valentine; but Miss
E. A. Lambert was quite too-far-than-most-awfully
charming as Siebel. Miss Eva Davenport was put up as
Martha, but so meagre was her conception of the part,
that she contrived to militate to a large extent against
the success of the Garden scene. The effects were on
the whole well-managed, the chorus was excellent, and
Mr. Leon Caron conducted with his usual ability.
* * *
The management are entitled to great praise for
the unwearying efforts they make to secure the comfort
of the audience—Mr. Bayliss, especially, being quite
phenomenal in his politeness to visitors. Mr. Wilson
Be Couteiir looks after the front of the house, in Mr.
Turner’s interest, for the present. He looks very nice
in the lobby.
** * *
We are informed that at a meeting held on Mon-
day evening last, at the Cambridge Club Hotel, the once
active “ Hercules” Amateur Dramatic Club was resusci-
tated. Mr. J. H. Rainford is to be stage manager. A
general meeting for election of officers takes place this
(Thursday) evening at the Cambridge Club. Gentlemen
desirous of joining, either as acting or honorary mem-
bers, are invited to attend, or communicate with the
secretary, Mr. J. Reginald Cohen, Elizabeth-street.
* ** *
Tommy Hudson and party, after a moat sue
cessful week in the West, are returning to Cooktown,
with the intention of working South again. It was
Tommy’s original intention to land at Cooktown, but
quarantine regulations interfered with this.
** * *
South’s Pinafore Company are doing a good
business down south. They open at Temora on Saturday
for one week.
** * *
We had an interview the other evening with M>*
Dominic Sonsee, in the dazzling halls of light in which
he luxuriates (Victoria Theatre vestibule) and were
much impressed with his affability. Mr. Sonsee is
about as tall as Gussy Loftus’ belltopper, and very
much the same shape. He wears a gold chain, baby’s
boots, and has a beard that keeps two-thirds of his body
warm. He announces that business is good, and that
he is on the lookout for a nice-looking girl with a little
“ cash ”to share with him. One hailing from Geelong,
and moderate in the articles of pullbacks, preferred.
Dominic has a pleasant face and a roguish eye, and we
have no doubt that before long he will strike something
spicy in the bride line. Mr. Sonsee leaves in a few days
for Newcastle. He says he’s in a hurry to get away, as
be doesn’t want to be summoned on a jury.
** * *
Miss Blanche Stammers benefits on the 9th,
when, we hope, she will Gamer in as much lucre as she
deserves, and that is millions.
** * *
The Mastodons are at Newcastle.
** * *
Miss Annis Montague’s benefit, 10th June.
“No standing room.”
A poor Lancashire family named Siddon have
inherited £4,000,000 worth of property from an old
chancery estate.
The principal streets in Liverpool are to be
lighted with the electric light. The Council has just
accepted a tender for a year at £2400, which is double
the price for gas with the same service.
In 1846 there were published in the old country
551 newspapers, of which 14 were dailies. In 1881 there
are in circulation in Great Britain 1986 journals, no less
than 168 of these being issued daily. Despite this, it is
a remarkable fact that London has proportionately
fewer daily papers than Paris and other great cities.
The Earl of Ellesmere, who recently visited the
colonies, owns at his seat, Worsley Hall, the finest stud
of Shire or English cart-horses in England. It was
from this Estate, that “ Honest Tom ” blood, so
popular with New South Wales horse-breeders, was
drawn. On 10th February last, a sale of horses and
pigs was held at Worsley Hall, when a draft of thirty-
five horses—stallions, brood mares, and fillies —were
sold at prices ranging from 20 guineas to 240 guineas for
stallions, 40 guineas to 200 guineas for mares, and 31
guineas to 100 guineas for fillies. The sixty pigs offered
were sold to prices varying upwards to 25 guineas, the
general average being 11 guineas.
AT BRIGHTON—EASTER SUNDAY.
We cannot fight the Boers, ’tis true;
We fear a Zulu’s frowns ;
When Russia raises a halloo
We give up Afghan towns :
But —British power declining! pooh !
No world in arms can make us rue.
While we’ve our Volunteer Review
Each year on Brighton Downs!
Although, like Christy Minstrels, they
Will not from home, perform.
Let but the foeman come this way,
And he will find it warm.
But if the coward choose to stay
Abroad and shun our proud array.
We'll seek no victor’s crowns:
We’ll let the Empire go to pot.
And shoot our powder without shot
Each year on Brighton Downs!
—VANITY FAIR.
INTAGLIOS.
The Spirit of the Age.
In its mad, eager search for the real.
The age uses feet and not wings.
Does it too roughly treat the Ideal—
Does it shatter too many dear things ?
Are our idols all broken and battered ?
Are there ruins of faiths on each hand ?
Yet precious the seed that is scattered
When harvest shall wave on the land.
Though we worship no more in their fashion.
Or walk where our fathers have trod.
We are fuller of love and compassion.
And so we are nearer to God.
We have taken the crown from the splendid
But bloodthirsty warrior of old.
And our homage and praise have descended
To the thinker, untrammeled and bold.
The age turns aside from old byways
We were taught to revere in our youth.
And finds the new beautiful highways
Lying bathed in the sunlight of truth.
Should we weep if some idols are shattered.
Some blossoms trod down by the way.
Since the seed that is everywhere scattered
Must yield a great harvest some day ?
Which is Best?
To feel that heaven were not heaven without her.
That where she is not 'twere sad to be;
That all sweet fancies blossom about her,
And she lends enchantment to land and sea:
That sunlight is shadow where she does not shine,
And pain for her sake a rapture divine ?
To know that the ground you tread on she blesses.
At the sound of your voice all her pulses stir ;
That no language or glance or touch confesses
The half of the love that abides in her;
That sweet things are bitter which you do not share,
Hope a delusion, and life a despair ?
Blighted.
The maiden, smiling in a dream of bliss.
Said: “ Gladsome days are coming; I shall be
His best beloved—for his farewell kiss
Spoke of a future full of love for me.”
But ere the year was past, her hopes were flown ;
She mourned alone!
The linnet, twittering on the Winter thorn.
Said: “ When the Spring comes, all my song shall
thrill
The silent woods—and blossoms shall be born.
And gladness all my little life shall fill,”
But ere Spring-blossoms o’er the earth were shed,
The bird was dead 1
The floweret, pining for the Summer heat,
Svd: “ When the sun comes, he will shine on me;
And o’er my fragrant cup, with flying feet.
Shall pass the butterfly and humming bee.”
But long ere Summer came with heat and light.
Fell the frost’s blight!
O mournful maiden, and poor blighted flower.
And little bird that pined for sunny Spring,
Why were ye bom in home, or wood, or bower ?
Why thus was checked your harmless blossoming P
Why are dear hopes all o’er this sad earth chilled ?
And unfulfilled ?


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Nearly .£5OO was paid over in prizes for the
Wallgett races.
Trickett, with Kelly, his trainer, left London
for New York on May 28.
Pawnbroker was heavily backed to win the
Birthday Cup at Adelaide.
The Duke of Westminster’s colt, Peregrine, is
first favourite for the English Derby at 7 to 4.
Over .£6OOO passed through the totalisator on
the second day at Adelaide— £2ooo being invested on
the Cup.
A pigeon-shooting match for £lOO a-side is in
course of arrangement between Yass and Sydney
sportsmen.
The amount invested in the totalisator during
the four days of the South Australian Jockey Club
Meeting was £21,000.
Five Fulham yearlings were sold at Adelaide on
Wednesday for a total of 915 guineas. A full brother
to Topaz brought 380 guineas.
The Mercantile Bowing Club regatta, which is
to take place on 6th June, is expected to be the most
successful held since the formation of the club.
At Forbes sports, on Queen’s Birthday, Alfred
Reynolds won both the Good Templars’ and Handicap
races. Mr. Surry won the Long Range Handicap at the
rifle butts.
The vice-commodore of the Victorian Yacht
Club, Captain Millar, was lately presented by a number
of friends with a beautifully-bound log-book for his
new purchase, the Red Gauntlet.
Contrary to expectation, the great International
Coursing Stakes was won by the New South Wales dog
Hopbine. Hopmarket, who was severely injured, is
said to be much faster than the winner.
A meeting of the N.A.J.C. was held at Ipswich
on Saturday. The financial outlook is good, and it was
stated there was no foundation for the rumour that the
club intended giving up its next meeting.
At Grafton regatta, McDonald won the handicap
skiff race, and M‘Donald Bros, the double scull race, —
Rush and M‘Mahon competing in the latter event,
which was a grand race from start to finish.
Mr. Branch offered to match Progress against
Mata 14 mile or If mile, to carry weight for age, for
any part of £5OOO, not being less than £5OO a-side. Mr.
Harry Haines, the owner of Mata, declined the offer.
Three out of the four coursing events at Wood-
stock were won by New South Wales dogs. Mr. Andrew
Towns made his dehtit, and won the Intercolonial Stakes
with Hopbine, and the New Plumpton Stakes with My
Lord.
A race for a trophy took place in Woolloomooloo
Bay on Friday last, between Messrs. F. Fligg and J.
Meible and Messrs. R. H. Reilly and E. C. Cleland,
resulting, after a close contest, in a comfortable victory
for the first-named crew.
Mr. W. Dangar, of Neotsfield, has sustained
the loss of a filly valued at £lOO. She was named
Caprice, and was full sister to Queensberry, the winner
of the Mayor’s Cup 8t the Patrick’s Plains meeting.
She was by Hawthornden —Algeria.
The settling over the autumn meeting of the
Brisbane Turf Club took place at Brisbane on Friday.
The following amounts were paid over :—Messrs. Bell,
£779; J. Finnie, £141; J. Williams, £Bu; W. R.
Robinson, £75; J. McGill, £62; J. B. Jost, £6O.
We are glad to learn that our advice was taken
anent the Cox Challenge Cup by the Cootamundra
cricket club, but as Grenfell has won the trophy again
by 24 runs it is to be hoped that no more will be heard as
to-Grenfell not coming within the conditions of the gift.
It was generally admitted on Saturday that the
Woodstock hares were not so strong as those of the city
of the plains. The deciding course for the Intercolonial
Stakes found a splendid “puss,” who gave the dogs a
“ gruelling,” but had to succumb to the fleet Hopbine.
The results of the second day’s racing at Wal-
gett are as follow Town Plate: The Gift 1, King 2,
Members’ Purse: Game Cock 1, Lothair 2, BabblerS.
Walgett Handicap: Cockeye 1, Hawthornden 2, Mira-
beau 3. Farewell Handicap; Gillar 1, Mirabeau 2,
Cockeye 3.
In proposing the health of the Judge of the
Woodstock coursing on Saturday, Mr. Lamb compli-
mented him upon the fairness of decisions, and on
behalf of the club issued a disclaimer of the reports
in the “dailies,” as to his erratic judgments in one or
two instances.
On Queen’s Birthday, the Volunteer Artillery
Rifle Club had a rifle match with the Parramatta Com-
pany, which resulted in a victory for the latter team
by 17 points. On Saturday last a match was arranged
with the Engineer Corps, and the Artillery sustained
another defeat by 47 points.
The results of the athletic sports at Blayney on
Queen’s Birthday are as follow: —Maiden Plate ; 150
yards: J. Greer 1, F. Oatley 2. Grand Handicap; 150
and 200 yards: Oatley 1, Martin 2, Eagles 3. Hop,
Step, and Jump: W. D. Cheshire 40ft lOin. Throwing
the Hammer: J. Kelly 25ft.
E. L. Williams, a sculler and boat-builder, of
Lowell, Mass., has applied for a patent for a system of
diagonal bracing from gunwale to gunwale of boats,‘and
from ridgepole to keel. It is said that this improvement
imparts 200 per cent additional strength, while reducing
the weight very materially.
The results of the Kogarah races on Saturday
were as follow: —Flying Handicap : Boniface 1, Barmaid
2, Doctor (3. Galloway Handicap: Coeur de Liou X,
Opossum 2, The Rose 3. Publicans’ Purse : Barmaid 1.
Gentle Joe 2, Albion 3. Kogarah Handicap: Lord
Orville 1, Islington 2, Doctor 3.
Cricket is over, and football commences. Massie,
Bannerman, and Davies retire into obscurity, and
Raper, Brodie, and Buckland emerge into light. Mur-
doch keeps before the public as a footballer. The
season of tall scores and break-backs is past, and that
of scrimmages and break-necks is come.
According to all accounts, the Melbourne Hunt
Club’s meeting was a very tame affair. There was not
on the programme a single cross-country event confined
to gentlemen riders, who have apparently become
almost exrinct since the days when Gordon, Mount,
Watson, sen., and Power sported silk at Flemington.
The settling over the Parramatta Races took
place satisfactorily on Saturday evening, when £676 was
paid away. The principal winners were: Mr. T.
Lamond, £173 17s ; Mr. Anthony, £9l 4s: Mr. S. Hard-
ing, £56 11s; Mr. Herbert, £53 4s. The members of the
P. J.C. were then congratulated upon the success of the
meeting.
Following are the results of the Queen’s Birth-
day races at Glenlnnes :—Maiden Plate: The Drummer
1, Goldsmith 2, The Swell 3. Flying Scurry ; Shearer
1, The Flirt 2. Queen’s Guineas: The Serf 1, Chester
2, Trevallyan 3. Sovereign Handicap: Flirt 1, Belle
Brandon 2. Railway Plate : The Serf 1, Chester 2, The
Drummer 3.
After the review on Queen’s Birthday, a rifle
match took place between 10 men selected from Nos. 1
and 2 Companies of the Naval Brigade and a like num-
ber from the Engineers and Torpedo Companies—s men
from each company. The match, 10 shots each at 500
and 600 yards, resulted in a victory for the Naval
Brigade team by 34 points. «
The settling in connection with the Grafton
regatta passed off satisfactorily. £228 was paid over in
prizes, in addition to a silver cup and a donation of £5
awarded to the second heat in the double-scull race
The largest winners were E. G. Laycock, £lOl, and
Macdonald Bros., £35 and cup. Over £35 was promised
in the room for next year’s regatta.
A meeting of the committees of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron and Prince Alfred Yacht Club was
held on Thursday afternoon, when the following re-
solution was passed :—“That this meeting is of opinion
that it is desirable to establish annual yacht races under
the auspices of the R.S.Y.S. and P.A.Y.C. and that a
sub-committee be appointed consisting of the commo-
dores and vice-commodores of the clubs. Messrs. W.
Grant, Dangar, Caird, Milson, C. Brown, and H. Corn-
well to draw up a proposal and programme, to submit
to a general meeting of the clubs.”
A mile walking niatch took place in the Domain
on Saturday between Franks and, Bishop, the latter
giving his opponent 75 yards start. After an excellent
contest, Franks won by a few yards. Both are youthful
pedestrians, with fair styles. Bishop overhauled his
opponent, but towards the end of the mile Franks made
a gallant spurt, which won the race.
It is said that the fastest Australian bicycling
time for two miles is that of Hazelton, of the Mel-
bourne Club, who did the distance in 7min. 30sec. This
statement appears in a Melbourne paper, and was
elicited by a telegram from Sydney, which credited
Mr. M. A. Hilliard, 7min. 52sec., with being the leading
record. There will no doubt be an intercolonial match
soon.
The second day’s events of the Newcastle Jockey
Club meeting resulted thus : —Free Handicap: Sir
Solomon 1, Whirlwind 2, Lady Clifton 3. Nursery
Handicap: Twilight 1, Whirlwind 2, Ethel 3. Mayor’s
Pups Black Swan 1, Sir Solomon 2, Vesper 3. Selling
Stakes : Stanley 1, Whalebone 2, Barbelle 3. Forced
Handicap: Darkie and Gleam dead heat for first place,
Stanley 2.
The settling in connection with the Newcastle
Races passed off very satisfactorily. The following
amounts were paid over; —Messrs. J. Mayo £lB9 and
Mayor’s Cup; P. Brennan, £113; R. Jurd, £75.; Chip-
pendale, £64; F. Lynch, £62; J. Dalton, £59; T.
M’Carthy, £4010s; J. Farrell, £33; H. J. Hough, £33 ;
H. Adams, £l3 10s; W. J. Dangar, £l2; Jewel, £2.
Total, £696.
A two-mile walking match for =£so, between A.
White and Q. Lindsay, took place on the Association
Ground on Saturday. The start was made by mutual
consent, Lindsay going at once to the front. After a
mile and a half had been covered White ruined what-
ever little chance he had of winning the match by going
inside a post. He then retired, leaving Lindsay to
finish the distance alone in 16m. 20secs.
The second day’s events of the Queensland
Turf Club meeting came off as follow:—Shorts : War-
hark 1, Proctor 2, Eclipse 3. Two and Three-year-
old Handicap : Legerdemain 1, Waterloo 2, Detective
3. Selling Hurdles : Banker 1, Lone Hand 2, Skylark
3. Brisbane Cup : Lord Clifden 1, Melbourne 2. Rail-
way Stakes: Liberty 1, Buck 2. Decoy 3. Forced
Handicap : Proctor 1, Melbourne 2, Liberty 3.
Laycock’s letter to the Clarence Examiner,
referring to the handicap in the skiff race, shows a
clear and conclusive argument as to the injustice done
him in the handicap as compared with M‘Donald ;
but Elias goes beyond the mark by his reflections upon
the committee, who in their turn have been more
culpable in allowing the annoyance to interfere with the
hospitality that should have been extended to a visiting
sculler.
The results of the Wallsend Races on Saturday
were as follow :—Flying Handicap: Hypathia, 1; Whirl-
wind, 2; Mangallala Squatter, 3. Mares’ Produce
Stakes: Queensberry, 1; Loohinvar, 2; Psyche, 3.
Selling Stakes : Gay Lad, 1; Fancy Boy, 2. Wallsend
Plate: Cameo, 1; Stanley, 2; Woodlands, 3. Trial
Stakes: Whirlwind, 1; Queensberry, 2; Faust, 3.
Mares’ Produce Stakes: Woodlands, 1; Whirlwind, 2 ;
Stanley, 3.
The Woodstock Coursing Meeting was brought
to a close on Saturday, with the following results : —St.
Leger: Mr. P. A. Lamb’s Lollypop, by Strephon—
Lassie. The Intercolonial Stake: Mr, A. Towns* Hop-
bine, by Barmby—Brindisi. The New Plumpton Stakes :
Mr. A. Town’s My Lord, by Lnnercost —Rupertine,
Beaten Stakes: Hon. W. M’Culloch’s Medea, by
Claverhouse—Gazette. The three great prizes were
thus unexpectedly secured by New South Wales dogs.
Mr. Thomas Thompson, of Sydney, is to be
stakeholder in the match between Laycock and Rush.
He has received the £lOO deposited in Grafton. The
second deposit of £5O a-side is to be made at Punch’s
Hotel, on the 13th of August, and the balance must be
made good on the evening prior to the race, which is to
be rowed on the Saturday before the first heat for the
Walker Whisky Trophy. Mr. Mulhall is to be judge of
the race, which will be rowed on the champion course,
Parramatta River.
The results of the second day’s events of the
Parramatta Jockey Club meeting are as follow: —Handi-
cap Hurdle Race; Radical 1, Secret 2, The Hatter 3.
Two and Three-year-old Handicap: West Country
Dick 1, Aerolite 2, Boniface 3. Park Stakes; Shaugh-
raun 1, Fireball 2, Fisherman 3. Birthday Handicap :
Zulu 1, Balthazar 2, Lord Orville 3. Galloway Handi-
cap : Albion 1, The Roe 2. Isabella 3. Forced Handi-
cap : Sunset 1, Boniface 2, Verdict 3. Private Match:
Alb ion 1, Isabella 2.
A series of handball matches were played at
Orange on Queen’s Birthday. At Harris’ court, a match
between Lennon, of Dubbo, and Harr, of Orange, re-
sulted in a victory for the latter. A three-handed game
between Messrs. Daly, Frawley, and J. Lennon, juu., of
Dubbo, and Messrs. Duggan, O’Brien, and Moulder, of
Orange, was won by the Orange representatives. At
Elliott’s court, Keenan, of Orange, easily vanquished
three of the Dubbo champions.
The athletic sports at Scone on Queen’s Birth-
day resulted as follow :—All-comers Handicap: W.
Coady. Youths’ Race: O. Brown. Sack Race: J.
Mould. Hop, step, and jump: J. White 139 ft.). Beaten
Purse: J. Ryan. Maiden Plate: P. McGoldrich. Ladies’
Satchel; J. Bourke. Apple Race, and Running High
Jump: Oakes. Three-legged Race: Wildman and
Nicholls. A private match between R. Harper and W.
Combs was won very easily by the former.
A handball match for =£so a-side has been
arranged between A. Dillon and W. Kelly. £lO a-side
is deposited in the hands of Mr. Frank Punch, the
remainder of the stakes to be posted before the match.
The conditions are : two games of 51 aces each, to be
played at Sydney, 4th June, and at Hamilton, 11th
June. Both aces are to be put together, and the man
scoring most in the two games to win the money.
The first match is to be played at the Rising Sun Ball
Court, and the second at the Miners’ Exchange Hotel,
Hamilton, Newcastle.
Gayndah races, on Wednesday and Thursday
last, eventuated thus: —First day.—Maiden Plate: Lady
I, Liberator 2, Dora 3. Hack Race ; Exile 1, Chance 2.
Welter Handicap : Paca 1, Ugly Duckling 2, Dynamite
3. Gayndah Plate: Viscount 1, Pretender 2, Liberator
3 Champagne Stakes*: Fiddlestring 1, May Queen 2,
Prigo 3. Second day.—Hurdle Race: Cornstalk 1,
Bernard 2, Pompey 3. Hack Hurdles: Quicksilver 1,
Starling 2. Turf Club Handicap : Viscount 1, Pretender
2, Liberator 3. Ladies’ Purse: Pacha 1, Fiddlestring 2.
Corinthian Cup : Weatherbit 1, Crow 2, Lady 3.
Farewell Handicap: Flirt 1, Pacha 2, Lady 3.
“ Eed Eover,” in the London Sporting
News, says that “ the longest jump, properly recorded,
is that of Chandler’s at Warwick; it was 37 feet. The
lete Earl of Shrewsbury, when hunting in Leicester-
shire, jumped a quarry on the far side of a blind
hedge, that was also measured to be 37 feet. The
highest recorded jump that I know of was a mare at
the Dublin show. She cleared a wall 6ft 2in in height.”
The long jump quoted has been equalled in_this country.
Phantom, a horse belonging to Mr. J. R. Evans,
jumped a similar distance on the Warmambool race-
course, at the same time flying a 3ft 6in hurdle. Dal-
rymple rode him on the occasion.
A dead silence greeted Laycoek’s victory over
Rush on the Clarence. When the prize was paid over,
Laycock returned thanks and promised £5 towards the
next regatta. At the conclusion of his speech, the com-
mittee rose and dispersed without the usual toast
drinking. Doubtless this was on account of the re-
marks made by Laycock on publication of the handi-
cap, and his ill-advised letter in the local paper. The
outside public may think that Rush's defeat had a
deal to do with it, especially as the committee, who
were the offended parties, were not expected to do all
the cheering. What will they say in England ? Truly,
Laycock has come home to Australia to be “ snubbed.”
Following are the entries for the Mercantile
Rowing Club Regatta, which takes place next Saturdav.
June 4th :—Senior Clinkers: F. J. Bull, C. Bros, H. E.
Wilkinson, H. Jacob, J. Macfarlane. Junior Clinkers:
H. Jacob, M. A. Martin, E. Palmer, F. Ives. Maiden
Double Sculls: W. F. Corbett and E. Palmer, A. W.
Coker and W. G. Longford. Maiden Fours; No. I
(Eclipse), F. Ives, C. Booth, H. B. Pickering, E,
Palmer; No. 2 (Naiad), J. S. Eldridge, W. F. Corbett-
F. G. West, J. R. Pegy. Junior Fours: No. 1 (Pro.
gress), Q. Sedgwick, W, C. Rush, W. Wheatley, W. A.
Blackstone; No. 2 (Oracle), J. Whelan, A. Croall, M.
J. Fitzgerald, F. C. Hebblewhite. Senior Pair Oars:
J. Mountcastle and J. Macfarlane, C. A. Bros and A.
P. Bros.
When N. S. W. sustained a crushing defeat at
the hands of Victoria in the eight-oar race, various
surmises were offered as to the cause of our inferiority.
We contested that there was a want of encouragement
here to outrigger rowing, and at the time we considered
it a healthy sign of improvement that members of the
Sydney Rowing Club were initiating an eight-oar race.
Sufficient members were found to form two crews,
selected by Mr. P. J. Clark, but now it is ascertained
that the S.R.C. committee refuses to give a small prize
for the event, which will consequently fall through.
When we consider that the S.R.C. gives but one regatta,
of four events, during the year, and that the M.R.C.
gives an annual regatta, of seven events, besides club
races, we are forced to conclude that the S.R.C., the
senior club of the colony, is acting very unwisely—and
very shabbily.
Following are the further results of the Adelaide
Racing Club meeting:—Second day.—Maiden Plate:
Baron von Mueller 1, Koh-i-noor and Billy Nutts a dead
heat for second place. Nursery Stakes: Henrietta 1,
Topay 2, Spectre 3. Cup: Mata 1, Progress 2, Crystal
3. Flying Stakes: Annie Firman 1, Buccaneer 2, Maid
of Troy 3. Suburban Plate: Baron 1, Cock of the
Walk 2. Third day.—Selling Hurdles: Jack’s the Lad
1, Veno 2, Twilight 3. Corinthian Cup : Cock of the
Walk 1, Frank Hewitt 2, D.O.D. and Crystal a dead
heat for third place. Two-Year-Old Handicap : Direbin
1, Result 2, Spectre 3. All-aged Stakes: Mata 1, Koh-i-
-noor 2, Miss Harriet 3 May Handicap: Mata 1, Blue
Ribbon 2, Miss Harriet 3. Fourth day.—Two-Year-Old
Selling Race: Shylock 1, Ruby 2, Jack Harkaway 3.
City Handicap: Miss Harriet 1, Blue Ribbon 2, Odd
Trick 3. Steeplechase : Lucy 1, Trigger 2, Intrepid 3.
Booths’ Purse: Alethe 1, Trevallyn 2. Consolation
Stakes : Aurora J, President 2, D.O.D. 3,
That once-celebrated pugilist, Joe Kitchen,
now lies almost “sick unto death,” in Melbourne
Hospital from the effects of a sunstroke received in
North‘Queensland years ago. From the time of his
first appearance in Victoria, he proved himself a
game, determined, and honest boxer, and was never
beaten. He was born in Lancashire on 10th April, 1829,
and after many minor mills in various parts of the
world, he, on 28th Jan., 1856, at Ballast, met Joe
Delaney, for £5O a-side, and won in 35 minutes. His
next contest was with Bill Melody, who fought Joe £250
to £2OO. This affair came off on 14th April, 1857, at
Dnnolly, and was won easily by Kitchen. His next
opponent was the redoubtable Bob Fee, the then
acknowledged best man of his weight. They met at
Ararat, 24th Nov., for £2OO a-side, when Joe’s star was
again in the ascendant, and he won, after a well-fought
contest of 2h. 11m. He next met Dan. Tunmens, at
Pleasant Creek, for £6OO (June, 1858), and won. Then
he fought the renowned Harry Saliars for £3OO a-side-
The thousands who witnessed this last conflict acknow-
ledged it to have been one of the most stubbornly-con-
tested ones ever seen in Australia. It lasted 4 hours 10
minutes, during which 110 rounds were got through.
His last opponent was Mat Hardy. They met twice,
but as neither could best the other the stakes (£400)
were divided.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Lord Rosebery was with poor Constable when
he died. He had been that jockey’s master since
1875, and both he and Lady Rosebery showed more
than ordinary kindness to their favorite rider during
his illness At the recent general meeting of the
Amateur Athletic Association ol England, it was
decided to make the* following alteration in Rule X .
which defines an amateur; —“ Who has never competed
with or against a professional in any money-prize or
staked bet.” £250 is the amount for which the yacht
Haidee is to be raffled at Brisbane The Spirit of
the Times says that in 1877 the trotting mare Flora
Temple was still alive, aged 32 F. Oatley won the
Carcoar three-distance Handicap on Queen’s Birthdav,
Martyn second At Cobar, the other day, Mr. T.
Monaghan’s br m Lurline and Mr. T. Mathew’s b g Bad
Tidings ran a mile and a quarter for a gmall wager.
The latter was the favourite at 12 to 10, at which price
he was freely backed, but after the first half-mile he
was never in it, the mare winning as she liked The
valuable stud horse Vulcan, the property of Mr. Thomas
Rutledge, of Carwoola, Molonglo, has died from the
effects of an accident. Mr. Rutledge had just refused
1000 guineas for him. As a two-year old, ulcan won
the Maribyrnong Plate, beating Roodee and His Lord-
ship and a large field The Hon. James White has
purchased the colt Silvia, by Musket from the Auck-
land Stud Company for 1250 guineas Sigismuud
Franck, the totalisator patentee, is sueing the Dunedin
Jockey Club Committee for having used the instrument
to their profit without his authority G. Summerfield
and C. Irish run at the Association Ground on Saturday
for £lO a side J. C. Williams, the Sydney pedestrian,
won a twenty-four hours’ go-as-you-please at Kapunda,
S.A., covering 112 miles 6 laps At Hay Athletic
Sports on Queen’s Birthday, the principal event, a
handicap of £lO, three distances, 100, 300, and 400 yards,
was won by A. Massie, who got a start in each case. G.
Howard won the Maiden Plate ; and G. Saddler (230
yards) the Walking Match Handicap, two miles Mr.
J. S. Smith is credited with having run 150 yards in
15 3-sth seconds, and 250 yards in 28 2-sth seconds at
the South Canterbury Amateur Athletic Club’s last
meeting Rush will have a new boat by Swaddle and
Winship for his match with Laycock, and for the
Walker' Whisky contest. • Rush says that the boat
Laycock beat him in is one of the grandest in the
world, and he adds that if he had had his new boat he
would have made it pretty warm for him (Laycock)
this time The Athletic Cup, run for at Glen Innes on
Queen’s Birthday, was won by Thomas Since
the Grafton Regatta, Laycock and some friends have
had some shooting on the Waterview Estate, near
Grafton. Elias is clever with the gun Connor says
that he is willing to run O’Brien 10 miles, but for not
more than £2O On April 2 there was a gallant fight
between Bristol Jack and O’Connor, for £5O aside and
the championship of Griqualand, West Africa. The
men fought 93 rounds, occupying 3 hours 37 minutes,
and after all it was a drawn match, both milling
well until they were completely done up Hudson, of
Dunedin, and Slade, of Temuka, wrestled at Timaru on
April 30, for £5O aside, five falls out of nine. Slade,
who was the favorite at 2to 1, was the victor. Hudson
was out of condition At Eton College Sports on
March 31, Bainbridge (80ft 10-Jin) was best at throwing
the hammer, and (92 yards 2ft 2in) at throwing the
cricket ball At Shadwell Park, Vic., the other day,
Mr. Joseph Hinchcliff shot a turkey weighing 301 b
It is said that that celebrated pedestrian, “ Blower”
Brown, is coming to Australia to challenge all-comers.
Previous to his departure from England he is to have
a benefit at Lusby’s Summer and Winter Palace, when
all the principal rowing and pedestrian talent have
promised their support That “ all men are equal on
the turf and under it ” is a true saying. A race, says
an English paper, last week fell to a horse owned by a
pawnbroker, and trained by an Irish baronet, belonging
to a family which, to use O’Cqnnell’s words, is “noble
in every court of Europe.” Fred Ralph, who died
recently at the White Horse, Wandsworth, rowed in
his day against some good men on the Thames, notably
Bob Chambers, by whom he was beaten. He afterwards
emigrated to Australia, where he made many friends ;
then he returned and settled down at the White Horse.
At Maryborough (Q.) regatta, on Queen’s Birthday,
the sculling race in half-outriggers was won by Jas.
Bartholomew. C. Barton was the only other starter
At Greenwell Point Regatta (Shoalhaven) on Queen's
Birthday, the single-scull race was won by W. Wilson ;
the maiden double-sculls by J. and W. Kennedy; the
all-comers’ double-seulls by Allan and Alex. M’Lean;
the challenge cup, for all boats not exceeding 22ft, over-
all, by Allan M’Lean. In the latter event there were
six starters. There were three starters for the Smith
Cup (the gift of G. A. Smith, jeweller, of Sydney),
competed for according, to conditions, by married
residents. Alex. M’Lean, sen., was me winner
The combined athletic sports of the Brisbane, Ipswich,
and Toowoomba Grammar Schools took place at Bris-
bane, the largest proportion of prizes being received by
Brisbane The race for the scratch fours of the Mer-
cantile Club has been postponed until Saturday, June
11 At the Rising Sun ball court, on Saturday, Sheal
and Molloy beat Hogan and Ryan J. Keenan, of
Orange, who took part in the recent intercolonial hand-
ball contests, intends to try conclusions with Andrew
Dillon, after the latter’s match with Kelly, of Hamil-
ton A coursing club has been started at Windsor
On Queen’s Birthday, R. Davis and H. Dixon, employes
of Messrs. Lassetter and Co., ran a 200 yards race at
Moore Park for a£s trophy. The men got away on
even terms. For 70 yards Davis had all the best of it,
but Dixon spurted, and got almost level with
his opponent for 100 yards. However, at the finish
Davis won a good race by 3yds
WOMAN ITEMS.
After 90 a woman is proud of her age.
A kiss without a moustache is like an egg with-
out salt.—Spanish proverb.
Women are so full of their own secrets that it
is impossible for them to keep others.
Female canaries have no voices. In respect to
the females of the human species it is considerably
otherwise.
At Border Town, S.A., a lady issued a writ for
damages for breach of promise of marriage, and the
gentleman immediately stopped the proceedings by
marrying the plaintiff.
Lady Gordon held her first reception at Wel-
lington on May 4. The N.Z. Times states that a large
number of ladies attended, and all went away pleased
with the courtesy and kindness of their hostess.
Here is an advertisement from the Wide Bat
News of May 21: —” Marriage contracts, affianced at
Dovedale, John-street, by Pastor Godson. Fee; one
guinea. If elsewhere in town or country, a trifle extra.
More love-making. Another devoted swain—in
N.Z. this time—has affectionately cut his lady love’s
throat. She wouldn’t marry him, and he merely wished
to convince her what a good husband he would have
made.
A fashion paper tells us that silken hoisery is
now all the rage in Paris, “ with insertions of portraits
and medallions of point lace ” Fancy glancing at your
lady-love’s stocking and finding there the portrait of—
some other fellow!
A female professor of bigamy on a large scale,
aged thirty-two years, was recently charged at the
Brooklyn Police Court, U.S., with intermarrying with
fourteen husbands. She was described on the charge
sheet as a “ married woman."
Charles Topp, charged with having abducted a
girl named Susan Eliza Macabe, under 16 years of age,
has been arrested at Forbes. Before committing him
for trial the P.M , at Topp’s request, married him to
the girl, who is said to look like a mere child.
The U.S. Supreme Court has decided that Mor-
mons are ineligible to serve on juries empannelled for
the trial of bigamy cases, and that wive* of Mormons
in Utah cannot be called as witnesses against their hus-
bands should the latter be tried for that offence.
It is said that an intimate friend of the Duchess
of Edinburgh, a young lady who only the other day was
one of the party who received the Duchess on her ar-
rival in St. Petersburg, has since confessed to a very
close acquaintance with Nihilist leaders and their do-
ings.
The Empress of Austria hunted recently with
the Wynnstay hounds, in England. The first fox that
was started in its run came upon the ground of the Ash
Steeplechase, held two days previous to the hunt. He
leaped the fences in grand style, followed by the hounds
and the Empress, in the front of a large field; and Her
Majesty won the brush.
A girl named Mary Ann Hogg was drowned last
week at Brisbane, while attempting to rescue her sister
who had fallen into the river.
A heroine thou, dear Mary; yet.
It seems an awful shame.
That thou whom poets won't forget
Had such an ugly name!
After the wedding breakfast, Madame Perugia-
Rothsohild set out on the honeymoon in a simple
travelling costume of sapphire-blue velvet, with sleeves
of blue and white embossed velvet, and hat and muff
to correspond. This dress was made by a celebrated
firm of London tailors, who are nearly as often em-
ployed to fit a lady’s bodice as they are a gentleman’s
coat.
At the royal wedding at Berlin, the bridal pro-
cession was headed by forty mounted postilions, fol-
lowed by two hundred butchers, in gala attire and
mounted on white horses. The latter useful members
of society owe their pre-eminence on festive occasions
to services rendered by them during the Thirty Years’
War to a princess of the House of Brandenburg. But
fancy such peerless exquisites as court postilions
mingling with plebeian—if not greasy—butchers! Ex-
tremes meet: butchers’ meat.
Lady Blanche Murphy, who recently died in
America, was the eldest daughter of the late Earl of
Gainsborough. She married a poor musician, Mr.
Murphy, who had been organist at Brompton Oratory,
and who was afterwards appointed to the Earl’s private
chapel at Eton, where he saw and conquered Lady
Blanche Noel. The family remonstrated, but the lady
was determined, and the Earl gave in. He was present
at the marriage, and even wanted to aid his daughter
in her new career with an annuity; but Lady Blanche
refused the family aid, romantically preferring to be
known as plain Mrs. Murphy, the Hibernian organist’s
wife, and to share with him his professional ups and
downs. The first months of her married life were spent
in Spitalfields. She and her husband emigrated to
America ten years ago, where she took to periodical
literature, using her title to enhance the value of hep
literary wares. Eventually the couple amassed a fair
competence. To the end Lady Blanche lived on the
most affectionate terms with her family.
THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHER’S NOTICE.
Published every Thursday morning at 13 Bridge-street,
Sydney, and mailed to any of the colonies on receipt of
subscription at the rate of Three Shillings per quarter
IN ADVANCE.
Advertisements are inserted at the rate of ss. per
inch. Discount: On half-yearly advertisements, 15 per
cent.; annual, 25 per cent.
EDITORIAL NOTICE.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
lie glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focused," to which column the-
attention of our readers is specially directed.
Correspondents should in all cases send either their
full names or nomsdeplume. Communications in which
this rule is not observed cannot be noticed.
Rejected M.SS. cannot be returned. The authors
should keep copies.
Correspondents who send newspaper clippings should
paste same on slips bearing the names and dates of the
journals from which the extracts are taken. This;
system offers an easy means of bringing matters under
our notice.
For the small sum of sixpence you can now buy
in London handy editions of Marryatt’s “ Peter Simple 1 '
and his other sea romances, and also of Lord Lytton’s
masterpieces.
The new Cunard steamer Servia, lately launched
from the Clyde, is the largest vessel in the world except
the Great Eastern. She is 530 feet long, her tonnage i»
8500, and the horse-power of her engines is 10,500.
She accommodates 1050 passengers.
In the London Sporting Life of April 2, Herr
Holtnm announced that on April 15 he would pull
against any two powerful horses in Loudon, and would
give £25 to anf owner whose horses snccee-ied in pull-
ing him from his position. It was his intention to
prove to the medical and scientific world that the
human frame can stand a strain from five to seven tons;
when properly applied. V;v


Business Announc<
I HAVE this day commence
Stock and Share Broker, and
undertake any commissions either
chase of shares that may be entrust
J
References :
Hon. S.*D. Gordon, IV
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C
Hon. li. W. Levy, M.
Richard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-stre
D
AVID M ‘
14, Hunter-street, Sy
SADDLER AND HAENES
By special appointm
To his Royal Highness the Duke
Excellency the Bight Hon. tl
His Excellency Sir Hercules R
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newes
band.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlen
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,
ASTERN SPECIALITY 1
CABLES AND AN
strongly recommend their i
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to any
much higher pri<
•J 24 GEORGE S'
HAYMAEKET
AG. c h u r c
• 147 TORE STE
Opposite the Mark
IMPOETEE AND MANUFi
Coffee, Peppers, Spii
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUI
CHEAPEST HOUSE D
for Liverpool and Black Horn
Choicest Sage and Majoram on h
680,000 AMERICAN SK
Just arrived, all s
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sa:
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sansage Skins, 9d per 11
Canterbury.
NOWLAI
j®
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NAER
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY,
SATURDAY for WEE WAA,
GETT, MILLIE, and MOREE
Tailors, Drapers
J.
MEN
BELMOEE HOU
205 Pitt-street,
UILLINEB, UNDEECLOTHIEE,
AND AETIPICIAL PI
Very pretty BONNETS and HAT
velvet, cream, and black Spanif
Beautiful MILLINEEY SETS in
The new TOQUE, COLLAE, and
40s. the set; made of best plusl
Novelties in HEAD - DEESSEf
FLO WEES.
161
TEEMS —CASH
KING STEEE'
■ (Near Tramway
MADAME WEIG:
PAPEE PATTEENS of DEESSES
cut in different sizes for Ladie
nished with illustrations and d:
up. Sold at prices ranging froi
styles monthly in WEIGEL 1
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by i
annum, post free- Catalogui
Patterns sent to any part of the
of price and measure. Postage
ADDEESS:
'MADAME WEI
161 KING STEEI
SYDNEY.
Business Announce
Llegal.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUAEIE STEEET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary 1
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOE, has cob
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite t
News Office.
w.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAH*
225 BOUEKE STEEET, WOO!
AND BEST
AT
MAEK ISAACS’ COEPOEAT
HAY STEEET, HAYM
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally chet
Good packed and delivered free i
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTEY STOEEKEEPEES Ll]
Tailors, Drapers
COUNTRY ORDERS fait
Winter Requisites just in tir
May Ist. Waterproofs, Children
4a. 6d. to 255. Long Jackets, ss. to
DOLMAN'S VARIOUS PIECES
Felt and Quilted Alpaca. Wool
as Cuffs, Boas, Pischns, Wrappers
and other Muffs.
A Nice Lot of Frillings, Fringei
Velvets, Velveteens, Laces, Hoi
Household Drapery.
In the item of Dress Materials
WE CAN PLEASE YOU.
Winter Millinery now showing,
making. Country Customers send
Our own Registered G
2 Buttons 4 Bui
In the Shop ... 2s 9d 3s 9
Posted 3s 4s
JOHN B. YOUDj
656 GEORGE STI
(Just below Liverpool-
MERICAN CUT PAPI
MADAME DEMO
Perfect Pitting
Newest styles every mail from I
Full directions and illustrations wi
MADAME DEMOREST’S publi
fashions. 500 Plates,‘is.; What to
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, grat
MISS LOUISA H
87 Kino Street, Stdnet (two doc
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-sti
The misses
(Late with Messrs. David
52, MARGARET STI
WTNYARD SQI
Three Doors from Mr. J. Spi
Have much pleasure in announcing
to open Mantles Millinery, and spe
Ladies for the Autumn Season. A
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, WY]
[7l LISE’S PAPER GUI
E
Ml communications to be
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET, I
Six doors from George
Orders for Patterns cannot be <
paid. Our cut-out Paper Pattern
style, cut, and finish, being modelled
Fashions, and are always sent pe
receipt of stamps or money order.
46 TT IS A WELL-KNOW
JL for Household or Famil-
Hordern’s" Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H 1 has
for Value, Variety, or Extent of St
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOO
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES A
Geo. l. l i i
HIGH-CLASS CASH 1
3 BRIDGE STREET,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MU
Begs to inform his friends and tht
opened the above premises f
gentlemen who wish to have tl
manship, &e., at a low price for
Gentlemen requiring this with Wei
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly t
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM GF
N
OTICE TO th:
SUITS TO ORDEI
R. C. HAG
FASHION ABL
TAILORING ESTABI
127 KING STRE.
Where you can be fitted with the n
cheapest Outfit in the
4-T.n TCv-f.M/wdiviuT f!heat> Pr
Tailors, Drapers
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOUi
358, 360, 362, George-
OPENING NEW G<
for
WINTER SEASC
EVERY DAT DURING TE
FIRST GENERAL £
of
NOVELTIES
FANCY DRESSI
FOR THE WINTER S
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
came:
INDRI
ango:
JER sE
VALPi
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HOMESPUN
ELASTIC BIEGE
KASGHER CASHMERE
STOCKINGETTE
AND A LARGE ASSORTMEI
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—''
cases of very i
ERY, someth!:
handsome, dire
houses in Londi
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAE'
SILK, Rich Ve
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES, 1
SILKS, in a var
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 3s
6s lid, 7s 6d. '
worn, and strc
for wear, and fi
BLACK VELVE
NAUCUNIUM.gi
every yard star
BLACK SATINS
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d, i
are light and so
under usual
SILK VELVE 1
, every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MENT of all
LACES in eve
imitation, Embi
Ruffling, Mode
Cuffs, Collaret
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace b
> width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS w(
FROM DRESS
be no decepti
washed. Ladi
Sheetings good
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-ir
inch. Is 6d to 2f
to 3s. America
& Horrocks’ Ci
QUILTS, from
prices. Colou
QUILTS, 2* loi
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 and
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMENT
been our study
this class of t
character. By
year after year
of FIRST-CLAS
are now showii
ment of of DAI
NAPKINS, bot
Damask. Thes
every size, and i
for cheapness
colony. We c
MASK CLOT!
425; 5-8 NAPKI
3-4 NAPKINS
29s 6d; DAI
round or square
DAMASK, 6-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 2
SHEETINGS, i
PILLOW LIN]
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, fron
cording to size
ISH TOWELS,


Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATEEING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s EESTAUEANT and CAFB
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriotte, late ch(sf de cnisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compaguoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTEE STEWS
OYSTEES SCOLLOPED
OYSTEES FEIED
and
OYSTE « NATUEAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Hails will find
FEESH OYSTEES at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
NOW OPEN,
THE
(Jity (Jatering (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cafd, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and EESTAUEANT for Gentlemen.
EEFEESHMENT EOOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
CONPECTIONEEY S of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATEEING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
HAS. R. gMITH,
MANAGES.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ATT, THE BEST BEANDS OF ALE AND POETEE,
Is PEE BOTTLE.
lEISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockbum’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatbe Eoyal.
CE
O u.
O T t.
•i , >■
EB
MU
m
ran
|j
LUNCHEON and SUPPEE-EOOMS. FIEST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOE TEAVELLEES.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PEOPEIETOES
H
ENNESSY’S HOTEL,
EUTHVEN-STREET, TOOWOOMBA.
The above is, without exception, the LA GEST and
MOST COMMODIOUS HOTEL in the whole of the
Darling Downs and Western Districts.
A large and well-constructed Hotel has been a great
want in'Toowoomba, and that want is now supplied in
HENNESSY’S HOTEL.
The Coffee and Dining Eooms are large and roomy,
and are well furnished. There are over 20 single bed-
rooms, besides family apartments. All the bed-rooms
are furnished with full bed-room suites. Private
apartments, with sitting rooms, for families.
To commercial gentlemen Hennessy’s Hotel offers
unusual advantages. Situated in the leading street of
the town, it is in the centre of all the banks and busi-
ness places, and only a short distance from the newly-
erected Public Buildings. A large SAMPLE EOOM,
specially for Commercial gentlemen, has been erected.
A large and well-ventilated BILLIARD ROOM,
fitted with a new billiard table of the latest design.
The Cuisine Department will be under the manage-
ment of a first-class cook.
The beat best brands of Wines, Ales, and Spirits.
No effort or expense has been spared to make
Hennessy’s Hotel one of the best in Queensland.
The Bulletin and other Sydney and Melbourne
papers kept on the file,
To Racing men Hennessy’s Hotel commends itself.
There are large, roomy stables and loose boxes.
Buggies and horses always on hire. A buggy will
meet all trains.
Hotels, Sic.
O
LD EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PEDfCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor,
M
A. GOO
PARK HOTEL, PARRAMATTA,
(immediately opposite the domain gates).
D.
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines and Spirits, of the
best brands, at the lowest possible prices. Picnic
parties therefore would do well not to burden them-
selves by bringing the same.
c.
RTS,
W. ROBE
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-GLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEEBS (
The Celebrated
a
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
pq
3
t*f£ WOfc'-B
UNI PE R TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
3
O
&
&
%
.Q
Si
Cj
9
i
•o
&
Wholesale Agent—CHAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
ation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
it no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
r, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
udities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
to cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
rtra profit represent the common beers referred to a&
[ual in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. C ATTELL and
Sole Agents.
2
ADI
MAR
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
1 This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To bo Procured Everywhere.
J E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Hotels, &c.
Robert butcher & co.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIBIT MEEC HANTS,
534 GEOEGE STEEET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Cottittrt Orders Ebceivb Prompt Attentiok.
B
EN WYYIS WHISKY.
THIS CELEBEATED SCOTCH WHISKY so re.
nowned in Scotland for its
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY,
is distilled from the BEST MALT, and being well
Matured, possesses that delicate Bouquet only found
in. the
BEST SCOTCH WHISKIES !
The PEOPEJETOES are prepared to meet the re-
quirements of New South Wales consumers, and have
therefore APPOINTED the UNDEESIGNED their
SOLE AGENT,
who is regularly supplied with shipments in Hogs-
heads, Quarter Casks, and Cases.
GEOEGE LLOYD,
BEIDGE-STEEET CHAMBEES.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTEALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLAES_ at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LAEGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TEADE.
KT Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MUEEAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
WINE GROWER AND MERCHANT,
Splendid DINNEE WINES, from 12s. to 255. per doz.
DESSEET WINES, 18s. and 21s, per doz.
PINE OLD WINES, suitable for Ladies and Invalids
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLAES : 40 Hunter-street. Sydney
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
THE
TAEPINB MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOUEED TEAS,
md is made up into 11b and half lb packets, and packed
n the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
ollowing places :
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M'Donald, William-street, Woolloomooloo
J. F. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M'Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagb, 111 Eiley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C„ Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
E. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Eedgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
E. Correy and Co., corner of Crown and Devonshire-
E. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
T. E. Geddes, 823 George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Eokes, 571 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
E. Dunne, comer of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Eea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M'Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vinlng, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Eaglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo
J. M'Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s Eiver
A. Guinery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Eedfern
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
E. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
Q. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
m
o
FOE GOOD, CHEAP, DUEABLE INSTEUMENTS
PIANOS. OEGANS, HAEMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENEEBEIN, Jtjn.,
(Nearly opposite the Eoyal Hotel).
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
BS S
Q
a
a
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPEES AND WINE
MEECHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
Lome
Highland Whisky.
THE PERFECTION
of
UNRIVALLED for
SOLE PROPRIETORS
GREENLEES^
34.C0M M ERCIALSTREELLONDOM.EI
DISTILLERIES,ARCIYLESHIRE
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle shonld be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in .small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
JOSS AND CLINCH,
A/ (Late Collins and Eoach),
SEATED WATEE
AND
COEDIAL MANUFACTUEEES,
438 HAEEIS STBEET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
COEDIALS OF ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDEESS:—
BOSS AND CLINCH,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEEE BOTTLEES,
105 PITT STEEET,
SYDNEY.
OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
ALBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUAEIE WINES.
Burgundy.
GALLON'S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Centeal Depot:
91 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
VINEYARD:
MUEEAY EIVEE VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris „ 1864
Vienna „ 1873
Philadelphia ~ , ... 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIEST
’ CLASS, and 2 SECOND COASS at the SYDNEY
INTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. EED,
Eeisling Aucarot i Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilbo Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The American papers announce that Miss Anna
Dickenson will " wrestle with Claude Melnotte and
Hamlet at the Union Square Theatre, N. Y., shortly"
The Sweatnam Minstrels did good business at Brisbane
Town Hall. They closed their season on Saturday
. night, the 21st, and go for a three-weeks’tour inland.
Mr. Beaumont Read and Mr. M'Donald, the baritone,
met with great success. The burlesque, “ Pin-a-4," was
a Mt, Beaumont Read playing “ Ralph," Sweatnam
“Backstraw,” and Maggie Glendenning “Josephine."
The young lady is a spirited actress, and has a power-
ful and cultivated soprano voice Burton's circus is
at Port Adelaide Miss Tilly Andrews is still attached
to the Baldwin Theatre Company in San Francisco
The will of Mrs. Charles Kean (Ellen Tree) was proved
on the Bth March, by her daughter, Mrs. Logie, under
£3OOO New Zealand has a dwarf who weighs but 171 b
—about the weight of a healthy baby of two years old
A spirit-exposer appeared at Warwick (Q ), the
other day. The receipts were so handsome that he and
bis agent had to walk to the next town. Miss Jenny
Nye was one of the fortunate few who, intending to
take passage iu the ill-fated Tararua, were prevented by
fortuitous circumstances from doing so. She had
packed her boxes and made every preparation to pro-
ceed to Melbourne by the steamer Barry Sullivan
writes that the report that he has been seriously ill and
has cancelled all his engagoments is untrue. He says
he is in capital health and not only hopes to fulfil all his
engagements but means to enter into an antipodean one
some day A troupe of Nautch-girls is travelling now.
They probably may not come to Sydney, but everybody
can get a pretty good idea of their dance by putting
two hornets, in good working order, down the house-
maid’s back Taglioni is still living in London—a
gray haired old woman, teaching dancing to the children
of the Prince of Wales; and Fanny Elssler is in
Austria, the wife of the Emperor’s nephew Mr.
George, proprietor of the American War Diorama, now
in New Zealand, and Lieut. Herman, his lecturer and
ventriloquist, had a row at Christchurch. The latter
was fined for assault, and next day he was also fined in
a small sum for assaulting a Mr. H. B. Motrum
Another little “ muss ’’ in Vogel-land was that brought
about by the secession of Miss Morgan, of the Morgan-
Love company, from her troupe. Since this trouble,
the company have had to accept a Miss Lawrence in
lieu of the Morganatic luminary Sam Howard is
still in Grafton “Trial by Jury" has, we are told,
been most successfully performed by amateurs at
Wiugham, before a crowded house Curry, the Texas
desperado, who murdered Porter, the acior, in cold
blood, met his fate at the hands of a bar tender in
Lasveches, New Mexico. This is good news ! Plan-
quette has chosen “ Rip Van Winkle ” as a theme for a
new opera, and hopes it will equal “Chimes of
Normandy.” Fanny Davenport, it is alleged, is
having a glass dress made, ft is to have trim mings of
glass lace, and a long Princesse train of one solid piece
of woven glass. It is cut surplisse at the neck and
joined at the shoulders with corded glass It is said
that the presents to be distributed at Thompson’s Zulu
War Panorama, in Adelaide, took op five tons measure-
ment on the steamer Mdlle Sara Bernhardt’s share
of the receipts at her first 100 performances in America
amounted to £27,280, in addition to which all her
expenses were paid Burnand’s new London burlesque
“ Hiccup,” is a parody of Tennyson’s play “ The Cup."
Mrs. Edwin Booth is dying Dion Bouoacanlthrs
engaged Sothern’s two sons, the daughter of Lydia
Thompson, and Dion junior for a “tower." J. K.
Emmett (Fritz) has been sued by a New Orleans
manager for failing to fulfil an engagement in that city.
Emmet t was too full of indifference to appear.
Damages were assessed at £2750 It is current rumor
that Dr. Hans Von Bulow intends to make his Meiuiu-
gen orchestra play everything from memory The
Roma Amateurs are about to essay “ Our Boys."
The Sweatnam Minstrels were to open at Roma on the
30th. It was the general opinion that they followed too
closely after Kelly and Leon to do g .od business
The various places of amusement in Grafton on Queen’s
Birthnight were crowded to overflowing. Ashton’s
Circus performed to an audience of over 2000 At
Grafton, on Queen’s Birthnight, the N.Z Dramatic Co.
played, before an audience of about 1200, “ The Blue
Ribbon of the Turf." Ou the following nights they
played, respectively, “Lady Audley’s Secret,” “Still
Waters Run Deep," and “ Rob Roy." The new
Protestant Hall, Grafton, was opened on Queen’s Birth-
night with a lecture The editor of the Cobak and
Louth Herald tells his readers that “ we are again
so agreeably pressed with advertisements that we are
compelled," Ac. A little lower down he speaks thus of
Leon’s Circus: —“Never have we seen any equestrian
troupe out of Sydney, and but very few within, which
could at all compare with that now nightly amusing
the Cobar public. We should not like to particularize.
All is excellent. The most refined need not fear, for
nothing is done or said like unto that one sees and hears
at other Circuses. All is good. All is suitable for the
refined. All will instruct or amuse the old and the
yeung.” Hooray ! Admiral Carr-Glyn, to whom
Adelaide Neilson was engaged, and to whom she left
the bulk of her fortune, is giving £3,000 to a fund for
distressed theatricals During his stay in America
Dion Boucicault proposes to give six public receptions,
at which he will hold forth on “ The English on Ire-
land." The revival of "Romeo and Juliet" at the
Court Theatre is the Shakspoorian sensation of London,
Forbes Robertson and Modjeska scoring hits as the
lovers Mrs. Scott-Siddons was playing in “ As You
Like It," in Philadelphia, in March last. George D.
Chaplin was the Jacques. Business good Catherine
Lewis has taken to painting, and has produced a picture
in oils which pleases the connoisseurs Poor Fred
Coppin, for the benefit of whose widow a performance
was given j n Melbourne the other day, lost his fortune
in Tasmania on mining specs The immortal Jacobs
and Madame J. (whom we have not the pleasure of
knowing) have been performing in Mudgee. “ Will
enny gent hin the stawls obleege me witharf asufferiu ?
Pass. It will now be found in the horange.” Ned
Holloway, Harry Leston, et awtres, lately at Mudgee
playing “ Serious Family " and “ Aladdin." Camilla
Urso returns to Australia. We shall welcome her so
The Amateurs (Minstrels) have been “ walking round "
at Hay. The Standard says : “ Want of space, and the
lateness of the hour at which the consert (sic) con-
cluded, prevents us (sic) giving a more extensive report."
Good job too, for you might have been as rough on the
Minstrels as yon are on Lindley Murray Mr. T.
King is building a new theatre at Hay. Prick up your
ears, now, Hollerawa-a-ay Mr. H. F. Towle is re-
hearsing “ Les Cloches de Corneville," for production
in Christchurch. Let’s hope his part anyway will go
smoothly. Anyhow, though, it ought to go down, for
a rough Towle is pleasant this frosty weather
‘ Arthur Sketchley” is back in London. Coming
t) the colonies again, Arthur? "Never no more,”
says he Tommy Spurgeon’s “show" was a frost
at Dunedin. The tickets were two shillings each;
they called it a “ social meeting," and wouldn’t pass in
the “ perfesh." Hudson’s Surprise Party pleased
The Giraffe at Mudgee. The tones of Vena’s fiddle
struck a corde sensible Fred. Marshall has taken the
Princess Theatre, Melbourne, and has engaged Mr. and
Mrs. Titheradge, and Mias Annie Taylor The Fakir
of Oolu is still at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne. We
need hardly say that the Fakir of Oolu is no relation to
the faker of Zulu The Holloway Company were billed
to open at Dubbo Masonic Hall on Tuesday night
The Kelly and Leon troupe have done well in Roma
(Q). Miss Wangenheim’s singing had the editor of the
local paper “right” from the start, and he gives the
company a column notice, with all the names of the
operatic characters spelt wrong By the way, surely
Roma can’t be the native place of the Romanys. Perish
the thought! Enough to make one shuddah Booth-
man, the actor, has a son and heir. Well done. Both
doing well —especially the heir. He is to be christened
next week; names—Leonidas Irving Sothem Booth
Charles Mathews Boothmau. That’s all I Our
very own Liddiard has, as we thought she would,
“riveted" the impressionable Australasian critic.
This is all he says :—‘ Miss Liddiard is a plea-
santly pretty young lady, who seems to live in
continual sunshine, and sings as if she never knew sor-
row or pain.” Amateur “ Pinafore ’’ in Newcastle
great card. Josephine’s singing got a great Holt on
the public The Maggie Oiiver-Seagrave combination
played “ Quilp ” in Rockhampton on May 20th. Quilp,
W. H. Seagrave; Dick, Emmett; Little Nell, Marian
Melrose The “ Sydney gentleman " who piloted
Ketten through N.Z. dropped two “thou." Oh,
E-rockey, mon pauvre chien, how much have yon to
answer for! Judging from the Northern Miner,
we should say that the Ogden-Beatrice-Zip crowd
settled up with Thadeua in full “Mr. Miller’s
Variety Troupe,” says the Star, “ have drawn passably
fair houses at Tamora. A new feature was introduced
on Monday last in the shape of a distribution of presents
to the audience.” Signer Verdi's house at Melbourne,
was broken into ou Saturday morning, and some jewel-
lery and photographs stolen. It is alleged the thieves
tried to pawn the jewellery, but couldn’t, and that
quite a number of ladies not all in Melbourne either,
are mad with anxiety to know whether the thief has
destroyed those photos.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The management of the Queen’s Theatre evi-
dently think that they are nothing if not spectacular.
During the whole of their regime they have produced
scarcely a piece of which “ entirely new and gorgeous
scenery," " novel and startling effects," and “richand
appropriate costumes” have not been advertised
as forming part In many cases, however, in con-
sequence of the large amount of work which the constant
production of heavy pieces has entailed upon the scene-
painter, the scenery has been more “ original" than ap-
propriate, while some of the effects have not only been
exceedingly “ novel," but so phenomenally startling as
to considerably exercise the bewildered spectator. The
dresses, if they have not always been exactly in keeping
with the characters inside them, have, on every occa-
sion we have visited the theatre, been excessively
varied, and the brilliant manner in which the compact
little orchestra has performed ancient airs with original
variations, cannot, if looked upon as as an exhibition of
industry, be too highly commended. The company have
now been performing for many weeks, and it is impos-
sible not to notice that many of the members are
becoming jided with incessant study. In “Jessie
Brown; or the Relief of Lucknow,” there was abundant
evidence of this, and as, in addition to this disability,
the performers of Wednesday (the second night of the
piece) played to an audience which looked as though it
had been sprinkled over the house with a pepper-castor,
the whole business was about as wearisome and dispirit-
ing as could well be imagined.
» « *
The piece under notice was heralded by a very
attractive advertisement, in which, with feelings of
pleasing anticipation, we read that “ Jessie" was “ Dion
Boucicault’s great military and spectacular drama;”
that in it was embodied—
“ Gorgeous New Scenery by Mr. Geo. Kelly, including
THE GREAT PORT SCENE,
illustrating the GALLANT DEFENCE of a handful of
BRITHH SOLDIERS
against THOUSANDS of SEPOYS ;
THE LAST DESPAIRING CHARGE;
THE RELIEF;
ROUTE (sic) OF THE SEPOYS ;
VICTORY, VICTORY, VICTORY.”
And finally—“ God save the Queen."
# • *
We reached the theatre just as the trouble com-
menced, and as a long stage wait occurred almost
immediately we were seated, a convenient opportunity
offered itself for a calm survey of the first set of the
gorgeous new scenery, without our attention being
distracted from its beauties by the action of the
performers. This scene possessed considerable merit,
if only on account of the boldness with which the artist
tackled the law of contrasts. The originality of the pic-
ture was indisputable—indeed we can conscientiously
state that we do not think that even Mr. Whistler, with
his “ nocturnes in black and gold," or “ studies in blue
and silver," ever produced, even in his wildest mo-
ments, anything more calculated to stagger the aesthetic
art-critic than Mr. Kelly’s opening scene in Dion
Boucicault's drama. In the foreground was the repre-
sentation of an Indian compound, which would have
looked every inch an Oriental pleasure-ground had it
not borne an equal resemblance to a suburban tea
garden. At the back, in the distance, was the city of
Lucknow, bathed in a delicate mist —like that which
rises from the warm bath of civilization, when the
courteous attendant has said, “ Enough ‘ hot,’ sir P
Very good, sir," and turns off with his private key the
boiling liquid. Here the ladies, Mrs. Campbell,
“Mary," and “ Kata"—the two latter having nothing
whatever to do with the plot have a talk, which
is overheard by Achmet (Mr. A. Burton), a
Hindoo servant whose murderous look and pink pants
would git him six months “without the option” at
any Police Court in the civilized globe. Then Randal
Macgregor comes in and has a talk with Achmet, who,
by-the-wny, for a Bengallee spoke English with a fluency
that was quite remarkable. Indeed, from his voice no
one would ever have suspected him of being a Hindoo
at all, his accent resembling, in so marked a degree,
that of the most diligent frequenters of “ Punch’s
Corner." His costume, however, was so completely
Eastern that he positively smelt of sandal-wood and
indigo. When we say his costume, we mean all but his
boots. These were the thick-soled, double-pegged,
long-quartered, spring sides that meet our entranced
gaze, dangling at the door-posts of the shops in George-
street. This, however, did not spoil the illusion much,
for what Achmet lacked of the Oriental in the boot
line was more than made up for by the deepness of the
copper-coloured paint by which his countenance was
besmirched. This servant was übiquitous, and it was
a relief to us all when he jumped over the balcony in
the first act, pursued by a bullet from the horse-pistol
(about the size of a carbine) of Randal Macgregor,
although we all know precious well that ho would turn
up again later on.
« « «
In the piece, “ Jessie Brown ” is a “ Scotch
lassie" who is a great deal attached to the regiment
and a very great deal to “ Geordio Macgregor ” —brother
of the above (as they say upon the tombstones); a
rather “ bad lot,” who he believes more in sticking to the
tea gardens and drinking sangaree out of a hock glass
than in fighting the Sepoys. Jessie’s mission appears to
be to waltz around in a short grey dress, with a Hieland
plaid scarf worn over one shoulder and under the other.
Her first appearance was the signal for much applause.
She came on with the “ army," which consisted of
Corporal Sweeny (Mr. Sterling White) and Cassidy
(Mr. James O’Neill). Miss Marion Willis, who played
the heroine, struggled very hard against her dismal
surroundings, and was, at times, exceedingly effective —
more particularly so when urging her sangaree-imbibing
lover to brave the battle’s roar. But her arduous
duties were not alone centered in her acting, inasmuch
as it became painfully apparent from the first that much
of the prompting of the piece fell upon her shoulders.
Indeed, so far as we could judge, she gave a wall-rack
full of cues to every one of the actors during the first
act only.
* * *
Mr. J. F. Keogh played the Rev. Mr. Blount,
a parson much addicted to profanity. Gagging, at any
time, is (excepting under special circumstances) a
grievous fault in an actor, but we are inclined to con-
done the fault providing the performer’s extemporised
dialogue is either amusing or intelligent. Mr. Keogh’s
gagging was neither of these. We cannot compliment
Mr. Keogh upon his impersonation of the Rev. Mr.
Blount, since it is a performance which in our opinion
tends in a very marked degree to illustrate the drama
in a form which is, to say the least, neither instructive
nor amusing.
* * *
Mr. H. Stoneham made a manly Captain Mac-
gregor, and spoke his lines, for the most part, “trip-
pingly on the end of his tongue." He was, however, at
times wanting in animation, and although, in the first
act, he spoke with a broad Scotch accent, in the second
and third acts of the drama he emulated the example of
Achmet, and also spoke “ Punch’s Corner English”
with pleasant fluency. Mr. W. Ry—we mean Arrow-
smith—enacted the ensign Geordie, and very manfully
he strove with the part. That he was not quite
successful is less his fault than that of the management.
This young gentleman is, at present, only a pawn on the
histrionic chessboard, and consequently when assigned
a “knight’s" duty, without possessing a knight’s
"moves," it is no wonder that he should be easily
cornered. We wish, however, that the audience had
made the allowances for’Mr. Arrowsmith which we so
cheerfully make; but they did not apparently feel dis-
posed to do so, as, when after much pressing, Mr. A.
announced, in heroic tones, his intention of advancing
to’the breach and making blood and hair fly generally,
instead of that chivalrous decision being received with
enthusiastic applause, the audience laughed till their
sides ached.
# * #
Mr. Stirling White always made a good Corporal
Sweeny, but the real success in the piece was Mr. J. P.
O’Neill as Cassidy. Whenever this gentleman was on ,
the stage, the ball rolled merrily. He was dressed in a
light red coat with a fifteen-inch tail —the latter appen-
dage cut very much after the shape of those habiliments
worn by “nigger minstrels" at race meetings. We de
not remember ever hearing Mr. O’Neil in a part that
suited him better, and one in which he was more
successful. It is not too much to say that his Cassidy
saved the piece from such a " goosing ’’ as has not been
heard in Sydney since Lotti played the heroine in “ Rag
Fair." Mr. Sweeny was fair as Nana Sahib, and his
make-up was admirable. Low comedy is more in his
line, however, than the bifalutin rubbish allotted to
the bloodthirsty Sepoy chief.
• * *
Miss M. A. Melville showed a marked improve-
ment upon her late “form” in the part of Mrs.
Campbell, and secured at an early stage of the drama
the complete sympathies of the little audience. The
other ladies. Miss Nellie Montague, aud Miss Nellie
Edwards (two Nellies!) looked charming, and did noth-
ing, which was all that was allotted them to do. The
“ supes ” were most effective, and the manner in which
they stood at “ attention ’’ in the fort scene reminded
one of the Brook Green Volunteer in his prime.
• * *
The storming of the fort by the “ thousands of
Sepoys” was the funniest thing we have seen since
Tommy Hudson last performed “Slocum’s Dog" at
the School of Arts. The first shell that was pitched
into the citadel rolled down the middle of the stage and
. banged the conductor of the bond clean in the dickey.
One Hindoo was hoisted up and poked back by the clergy,
man; then another was poked back by somebody else.
Then the first nigger appeared again and was shot, when
the second once more showed on the battlements and
was sabred by Geordie. All the while this desperate war-
fare was going on the house resounded with the up-
roarious mirth of the spectators, and when, at length,
the curtain went down upon the piece, leaving the
theatre full of smoke, and the throats of the audience
full of blue-fire, sulphur, rosin, and saltpetre, it was
agreed on all hands that our thanks were due to the
management, if for nothing else, at least for sending us
away in a good humour.
• *
We understand that Mr. Keogh’s season will
terminate shortly. We trust, however, that he will
give us “ Hamlet" before he goes, with himself in the
title role.
* * * *
The Mastodon Minstrels concluded their season
at the Opera House on Monday evening last, and pro-
ceeded by the boat to Newcastle, where they play three
nights, and from thence to Maitland, two nights, after
which, we understand from Mr. Wolfe, the company re-
turns to Sydney to play a round of “ plantation”
dramas at the Queen’s Theatre, which theatrical temple
is shortly to be vacated by the Keogh-Willis com-
bination.
* * *
The Mastodons are clever performers, but they
have several weak spots. In the rough and tumble
business they are excellent; but in order to make the
troupe thoroughly efficient, Mr. Lewis should engage
without delay a couple (at least) of comer men who can
talk. Some of the members of the company display
carelessness, not only in the selection of their jokes, but
in the delivery of them; “readying” up, for instance,
century-old conundrums, and only giving the well-worn
answers in a mutilated form after all.
* * *
In “ Pun-no-fear” this slip-shod manner of per-
forming was particularly noticeable, aud owing to this
failing ou the part of the principal members of the com-
pany the little piece was damned with much complete-
ness from the very start. “ Pun-no-fear" was not a
good piece, and the author displayed gross idiocy in
writing a sketch in couplets for men who could no more
pronounce his doggerel verse than they could dog-
Latin. The author of “ Pun-no-fear" has much to learn
—and let us hope he has plenty of time to learn it. If
not, let him coll round at this office before he attempts
to write another nigger-sketch, aud we will, ourselves,
administer rat-poison in a sufficient quantity to prevent
him, in future, from writing negro-sketches for such
performers—or for anybody else. And now, gentlemen
of the orchestra, a lively air, if yon please, while
Mademoiselle SUphanie de St. Hilaire goes through
her Marvellous performance upon the highly-trained
Arab steed Hercules. Allans, Messieurs—v'lan ? — houp-
Id!
* * * *
The luke-warm reception which “ The Upper
Crust " has received at the hands of the public has not
deterred the management of the Theatre Royal from
running the comedy into its second week, aud though
good houses have not been the rule, let ns hope that
the piece has at least been played to paying business.
It is to bo regretted that, with Mr. Garner’s experience
of the Adelaide reception of “ The Upper Crust ” with
its present cast, he did not endeavor to obtain, for the
representation of the piece in Sydney, at any rate, two
ladies who would more fittingly impersonate Mr.
Doubleohick’s daughter aud Lord-Hesketh’s ueice.
However kindly we feel towards these ladies—and we do
feel very kindly towards them—we cannot hide from
ourselves the fact that they are in a great measure
responsible for the partial frost which Byron's comedy
has been in this city. Miss Annie Taylor is an excellent
soubrette, and her efforts in broad farce are invariably
characterised by ability of a very high order, but she is
as little fitted, both by the peculiar bent of her talents
and for others reasons upon which we need not ex-
patiate, for the rdle of an ingenue as the Hon. John
Lucas is for catching a butterfly. In a Ike manner
Miss Alma Santon, though an excellent and highly
conscientious young lady, is but a poor substitute in
light comedy either for her sister Dora or for Mias
Blanche Stammers. This being the case, it is by no
means surprising that rather a mild comedy should
have had rather a mild reception.
* * *
Mr. Garner and the reporters of the denomina-
tional papers are at war. Duringthe run of “ Pinafore,"
Mr. Williamson issued tickets to such of the “ religious”
papers as required them, which tickets were available
for two nights in the week only—Tuesdays, we believe,
and Wednesdays. On Mr. Garner’s arrival, the editor
of the Express wrote asking whether the ticket would
be available during the season of comedy. Mr. Gamer’s
representative replied that it most certainly would not,
whereupon the Express, last Saturday, “ let out" as
follows: —“ The management of the Royal, we presume
and are d isoli (sic) at, don’t consider our poor journal
one of the ‘ upper crust,’ and have accordingly left our
reporter out in the cold. We cannot, therefore, give
any notice of the comedy, but as (to judge from general
report) it would not be favourable to the company
playing it, the less said about it the better. Where’s
Fred. Marshall ? Alas ! Since his retreat from their
ranks they have fared badly, and we are sorry.” This
reminds us of the naughty little boy who put his fingers
to his nose at the man who had just drubbed him.
Why don’t these papers pay for admission ?
. * * *
Last Saturday evening Hudson’s Surprise Party
appeared for the third time at the School of Arts,
Bathurst, and a correspondent informs ns that the show
“took” exceedingly well. Among the troupe are the
irrepressible Tommy, who can at present lay claim to
being the liveliest rough-and-tumble “Nigger" in the
colonies; Holly, great in “ Golden Shoe ” dances and
farces; Ada Maren, the fascinating white-wigged
warbler; Glovah ! —who “ grows more like his Pa ev’ry
day the yeung scamp; ” Miss Da Gay, the violinist,
whose motto is “Vena,” vidi, vici; Miss Florrie De G , the
key-board manipulator; and an orchestra that could
take the starch out of the German band in fine tunes.
The agent is Mr. H. Santly—a gentleman who has fol-
lowed Tommy’s fortunes and gone ahead of his show
for many a long year; indeed, so great is Santly’s de-
votion
“ That if a half-penny were Tom’s greatest treasure
Why Harry would take hall of that with pleasure.
* * * *
This is Noah’s Ark Gospel. Not long ago a
prominent member of the “periesh” who was sojourn-
ing in one of the Northern towns, came about 10 o’clock
at night upon a street nigger who was singing to a large
crowd outside a low public-house. The actor waited
until the song was done and the hat handed round, and
then going up to the wandering minstrel, whom he
recognised as a good Shakesperian actor and an old
friend, said—“ What! you give up the sock and buskin
—and for this? “Well, ole f’ler," rejoined the other.
;* Ive given up the (hie) sock dy’e see, but I'm hanvpd
if I’ve given up the buskin." #eu
it # it #
Zulu Thompson is in Adelaide at White’s Rooms
now Gamer’s Theatre, and his show is drawing crowds
as usual. The authorities will not permit him to givt
away presents by means of tickets, so after the show is
over he trots around and hands the thoroughbred
horses, suites of furniture, and ormolu clocks to who.
ever takes his fancy. This arrangement, the nrettw
girls declare, works admirably. *
* * * *
“Macbeth,” at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne
is not a success, both Miss Pomeroy and Mr. W BL
Leake having disappointed theatre-goers by their im’
personations of the leading roles. In every other piece
Miss Louise has scored a success—and she advertises in
the N. Y. Qlippee that her dates are all filled to
January, 18S2. Curious to state, the lady did better
before she amalgamated with the hero of “My Partner ’*
It is. always a risky business to have a Leake in the
ship.
* * * *
During' the representation of “ Tambour Major ”
in Adelaide, a little cad got up on the roof of the ladies’
dressing room, and tried to get a peep. He was cap-
tured, locked up in an apartment of the theatre and
severely trounced by the ballet-girls, after which his
face was painted blue and he was let go. He now says
he was walking in his sleep. 1
* * * *
Lieutenant Rose, the illusionist, and disillusion-
ist, has been performing at Kempsey and the Manning
district, where he has been having Rosey times, being
serenaded by as mnch of the brass-band as could be got
together wherever his duty called him, and the Mayor
of the various townships has invariably taken the chair
whenever he has been sent an order. This presdigita-
teur was, we understand, assistant not very long ago to
another clever conjurer, and it is by “ strict sobriety
and attention to business ” that ha has got as far up
the ladder of life as we find him. In fact it is by having
left Tennant alone that ha rose to be lieutenant. His
programme is a capital one, but he distributes nothing
but his good-wishes.
* * * *
Respecting Signor Giorza, the Tamwoeth
News remarks“ Signor Giorza, the distinguished
professor of music, has taken his departure somewhat
abruptly for Melbourne or elsewhere. The Signora
remains in Sydney where she has several pupils. There
has been a great deal of tittle-tattle over this affair.
No other local news worth mentioning." This ia
knocking up an item with a vengeance. The Signor
went to Melbourne with the Williamson Company to
conduct the “ Pirates of Penzance" at the Opera House
there. Foild tout. Thus do we dispel the mystery.
Madame did not accompany him because she had her
Sydney pupils to look after. Both are excellent and
clever people, and we love them dearly.
* * * *
“ Mr. Fred Lyster ia musical director at the
Standard Theatre, San Francisco, and dramatic critic
for the News Letter." When we read this par. we
turned with some interest to the S. P. News Letter,
and read of “ Les Cloches," at the Baldwin, in a notice in
which the following critical opinions were embodied :
“ As to Monsieur Nathal’s ‘ Gaspard,’ the miser, it was
simply bad. He cannot act the part, and he evidently,
from his costume and make-up, does not understand
the port.” " Mr. Hatch was so disabled by hoarseness
that he is out of the pale of criticism, but we should
fancy that * Greuieheux ’ is a cast above him as a tenor,
even when at his best." “ The stage setting is far be-
neath the usual pitch of the theatre. The absence of
the master is plainly perceptible. Without a good stage
manager all else is naught.” Then we- turned to the
Standard Theatre, and read with much instrucrion and
no little amusement as follows: “ The Standard
Theatre keeps up a run of good houses with the ever-
popular extravaganza, • Ixion.’ The local hits go better
and better every night, the songs are applauded to the
echo. In the leading parts, the spirituelU prettiness of
Graoie Plaisted, the smiling comeliness of Sylvia Ger-
rish, the classic features and slender figure of Emma
Cliefden, the shapely limbs and bright face of Abbie
Pierce, the Diana-like form of Grace Pierce, the
Oriental eyes and girlish grace of Helen Corlette, and
the sprightly gaiety of Ada and Bellie Deaves, form a
chain of charms that would draw an anchorite from his
cell, though he had lived on stale bread and cold water
for a month." Very well done, Fred—capitally done.
Indeed the whole thing would be quite perfect were it
not just a shade too “ thin."
* * *
P. T. Barnum is to the fore again with a show,
before which Cole sinks into puUug
Three rings will be employed to display all the beauties
and wonders of this stupendous aggregation of arenic
attractions. It is stated that the capital invested
reaches 3,000,000 dollars, and that daily expenses will be
over 4,500, so that it becomes a tedious as well as an
uninteresting task to specify the multitudinous details
of such a mammoth exhibition. One hundred eques-
trian and miscellaneous artists will occupy the three
rings simultaneously, and a menagerie, headed by
twenty-three elephants, will bo on view at the same
time. The living cariosities will include Gen. Tom
Thumb and wife, Chang the Chinese giant, the famous
baby elephant and a number of other living marvels, in
addition to a museum brimming with mechanical
wonders.
* * * *
We have received from Mr. and Mrs. Edwin
Palmer, who are playing at the Theatre Royal, Rock-
hampton, a catting from a local paper in which both
of them receive much kudos. Referring to the lady, the
paper (Rockhampton Bulletin) says“ Lady Linden
was made the most of by Mrs. Edwin Palmer ; and was
played with a raciness and dash that was (sic) not over-
wrought.” We suppose this is one of Mr. MTI wraith’s
own critiques. If so, being a Scotchman, it is a pity
that he put quite so much Irish grammar ia it.
* * * *
The Cooktown Herald says that Mr. and
Mrs. Tavares have been giving performances at the
School of Arts there in an “ adaptation of Jerrold’s
‘ Mrs. Caudle’s Curtain Lectures ’ entitled “ The Frolic-
some Oyster.” Another northern critic !
* * * *
St. Leon’s circus has bee i playing at Cobar.
Everyone went —old women, old men, middle-aged, and
minors—especially miners.
* * * *
Mr. Alfred Thompson, the caricaturist and de-
signer of theatrical costumes, has adapted M. Victorien
Sardou’s play, “Maison Neuve,” for the English stage,
under the title of the "Old Home. This “Maison
Neuve” is a charming piece, but one which we con-
sider is hardly adaptable. The great scene in the play
is where a half-drunken count gets in at the window of
the dressing-room of the (married) heroine at midnight,
and is given by her a dose of laudanum in order
to render him insensible, as her affection for the elevated
nobleman is only platonic, and she wants to get rid of
him. She pours him out, however, a quart or so too
much, and his lordship doubles up under the sofa in a
very corpse-like manner. The people all come in then,
and she hides him with the tram (25 yards long) of her
ball-dress. Mr. Thompson has written many plays, but
had never scored a success in one of them except
“ Aladdin II.", and Toole pulled that through by gag-
ging in the most outrageous manner. But though a
failure as a dramatist, Mr. Thompson has only one
superior in designing costumes and in caricaturing, and
that is Linley Sambourne of L indon Punch.
* * * *
“ The Pirates of Penzance” has, we are glad
to see, succeeded in Melbourne, and will probably run
at the Opera House there for some considerable time.
The papers —the weeklies more especially—are full of
gush respecting the opera, its singers, its actors (for
these are by no means synonymous)— aud its figurantes.
In this respect the Federal Australian, a journal
which claims for itself strict sobriety, is particularly
noticeable, the critic of that paper disporting himself
in its columns, in, to say the least, a very extraordinary
manner. He says that Miss Elsa May "was a most
fairy-like Mabel, charmingly costumed in white satin,
and full of a sparkling vivacity that lent additional
effect to the part”; and a little lower down, referring to
one of the ladies of the chorus, this antipodean Fran-
cisque de Sarcey voluptuously remarks—“ There was
one exquisite creature in * celestial blue’ and ‘ cardinal,'
whose loveliness —but why single out one where all are
so perfect—the editorial mind scorns the idea, and the


..editorial pen refrains from the invidious comparison.”
Well, our recollection of Mr. Williamson’s chorus is a
very vivid one, and the impression they made upon ns
•was that, so far as beauty was concerned, they were a
very “ornery” lot indeed. We are glad, however, that the
Federal Australian critic is easily pleased. He is,
we should think, a pleasant fellow, and we like his style!
We hear what he has to say about opera with much
gusto. We trust before long to hear what he has to say
about a dpg. fight.
** * *
Lotti Wilmott has evidently touched a soft
place in the heart of one of the Auckland reporters. In
speaking of her subject—“ Auckland by Day and Auck-
land by Night” (savoury subject for a lady 1), he says
* Her utterance is exceedingly rapid, an i her gestures
graceful, while her dress shows that perfect taste which
is so lacking in many of those would-be queens of
fashion in our midst.” Lotti’s style must have im.
proved since we knew her. She used then to appear in
a black “ straight-up-and-down” costume that looked
black one minute, brown the next, and blue the next—
and her classic brow used to be surmounted by a “cadi”
of the same chameleon tints. We suppose, however,
that Lotti was “ asthetio” in those days.
We are requested to state (and do so with much
pleasure) that Miss Teresa Horan and her sister
Eugenie are at present open to an engagement in comic
opera. We are also requested by Mr. and Mrs. Blank
’to state that Mr. and Mrs. Blank are a great success
in Blanktown, up North. W© do that gladly, too.
We have also been asked to mention that Mr. Joe
O’Brien is agent-in-advance to the Mastodons. We are
charmed to do this, also. And yet there are people who
say that we are not a good-natured paper!
** * *
Dr. Lynn, the illusionist, and Miss Amy Blan-
chard, his assistant, have fallen into good times, owing
to the over-officiousness of policemen X. They have
been summoned at Eavesswood (N.Q ) for performing
he decapitation trick, which the police pronounced a
-disgraceful exhibition, but which most sane people who
have seen it consider a clever and interesting illusion.
The immediate cause of the prosecution was the fact
that a couple of ladies fainted (or feinted) during the
performance. The Baveuswood public are almost
unanimously with the conjuror, for whose defence,
which will probably cost but a few guineas, they have
subscribed £IOO. The balance is to be handed to the
lady as a present. The Zip company have also done good
business since their arrival at Ravenswood—in fact they
have got the public “ by the wool.”
** * *
Eiccardi, the popular tenor and First Lord, is in
difficulties. His hatter the other day applied to him
for a settlement of a little bill, and was met with
language, which wrought up the batter to the proverbial
condition of his guild, and for using which the Signor
has been bound over to keep the peace for six months.
But, though revenge is sweet even to hatters—
it doesn’t make good a debt.
if # #
“Faust” was produced with great success at
ihe Gaiety on Monday last. An extended notice of the
opera will be found in “ Late Theatrical.”
** * *
We are sorry to hear that the genial William
Horace Bent is again seriously ill, at Warwick, Queens-
land.
** * *
“ Marmalade ”in excelsis. The Campbell-
town Herald raves about a concert given in aid of the
local Catholic church. Mr. Fred Lsston, our eomique,
seems to have staggered the audience, as he had to appear
five times (this is the usual average, by the way). Mr.
Airey, a local Leybourne, is spoken of as the “ prince of
funny fellows," and Mr. Downing is evidently an Aus-
tralian Santley with a cold. The ladies were talented—
for they outshone Goddard on the piano, and sang the
head oif lima di Murska. The lady who lent her
beautiful grand, by C. Kntschera in Wien, is landed to
the skies for a “ concession very few ladies would make,
as there was a risk in moving such instruments about.”
This Webb of indiscriminate praise winds up as follows;
■“ To any person who was not there we say, ‘ half yonr
1 fetime is gone.’"
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The Morning Rum is going into a public-
house. Quite natural of course. In future, it is re-
ported, the place will be known as “ The Pierian Pub.’’
• * •
Colonel Scratchley’s regiment alone more than
equals half the total volunteer force, and Lord Loftus
has on several occasions had the pleasure of seeing at
least 100,000 men on parade, in all the glorious pomp
and circumstance of war, on the Champ de Mars or the
snow-clad plains of Petersburg. And yet both of these
gentlemen declare that they never saw a finer lot of
troops than our own Australian Bushwhackers. This
is what is called diplomacy. The makings of many a
good country editor have been spoiled by parents forcing
their children to take to this diplomacy business.
* * *
A Melbourne man gets off a story to the effect
that the recent negotiations as to a swimming contest
between Corbett, of N.S.W., and MTndoe, of Mel-
bourne, came to an end in this wise. It had been agreed
that the backers of each man should assemble in the
precincts of the telegraph offices of Melbourne and
Sydney, and it was hoped that one or two telegrams
would make the match. “Let it be for £5O a-side,"
•telegraphed the knowing ones of Sydney. “Agreed,”
responded Melbourne. But behold ! there was a wily
Hebrew in Sydney, who thought he ought to know more
concerning the powers of the Melbourne man. “ Look
’ere," says he to the other Sydney men; “just see if
they’ll echvim for £2OO a-side. If they nibble quick, then
ha’s too good for our man. Mark my vurds.” So the
telegram came, “ Make the match for £2OO a-side.” To
which the unsuspecting men of Melbourne replied,
Certainly;” whereupon the Sydney backers dispersed
to their respective homes, and “ the rest,” as Hamlet
says, “ is silence ” —nor is there much likelihood of the
match ever taking place. /
» ♦ •
Friday’s D.T. says : —“ It has been currently
reported that there exists at Jingera a wild man,
covered with hair, and on Saturday last this monster
was seen by Mr. Peter Turpin and other parties. The
animal is said to be very like a large baboon—some
people say very like a whale —and resembles a man of
unusual height and proportions. Darwin to the rescue !
What can the thing be ?” Personally speaking, I wish
I may be painted pea-green if I know. I can only
surmise from the description that it’s either a bunyip or
a metropolitan pressman, and under the circumstances
I strongly recommend Mr. Turpin to leave a bucket of
colonial beer, with (or without) a pint-pot attached, in
the vicinity of the spot where he last saw the appari-
tion. Those who watch the bucket will have a chance
■of observing the habits of the “ animile."
* # #
“ The powers that be ” are fond of raking up
old laws —principally of a Sabbatarian character. Let
me invite their attention to a little pleasantry per-
pstrated under our lamented ruler, the late’ King
John —at least I think it was King John, but it
doesn’t much matter either way. A decree was
passed in John’s reign to the effect that should
any Hebrew broker be found charging excessive
interest on any loan granted by him, he was to lose a
tooth for every pound so charged. Were this law en-
forced here just now and applied to “Christians” as well
as to Israelites, sausage-meat and bread-and-milk diet
would be in great demand, and a new Wynyard Squire
would have to be started to accommodate the increasing
list of dentists. King John was probably a Govern-
ment clerk in his young days—or perhaps be ran an
honest journal. But perhaps Sir Henry is afraid of
drawing the teeth of his elders.
* * •
“An Indignant Parent” pbints out in the
News that the Waverley tram ran to its bitter end the
other night without a single light, or, as the I.P.
historically puts it, ‘‘clad in Egyptian darkness,
alohough crowded at the time by timid young persons
of both sexes.” Now how is it*that it is an “Indig-
nant Parent ” and not a “ timid young person ” whom
we find complaining? Mr. Doublechick’s statement
that “ it’s them tunnels as does it" is after all only an
unconscious paraphrase of some words concerning
“light and love” which Shakespeare put into the
month of Tarqninius Snperbus.
* * *
The Agb, in a leading article, endeavours to
console its readers for the comparative sparseness of the
Victorian population by parading the fact that conse-
quently those who still live in the Southern colony are
richer. Let me quote Godsmith; —
“111 fares the land, to hastening ills a prey,
Where idealth accumulates but men decay."
m * *
Miss May Fisk, the celebrated American bur-
lesque actress, has given up the topical song and break-
down business, and is now lecturing on Sunday, and for
lyceums. Her latest pitch is—“ My Opinion of Hell."
I should like to know her opinion of jurymen.
* • #
Dr. Talmage the “ star ” evangelist, who, when
touring in England some time ago, disgusted even his
warmest supporters by his extreme rapacity, proposes,
I note, to reform the drama by means of a Reformed
Amusements Association, which is to be sustained by
Christian capitalists. In the theatres built by this as-
sociation no play shall be performed until it has been
read, expurgated, abbreviated, and unanimously sanc-
tioned by the board of trustees. I suppose the first
piece produced will be a pantomime in which the trans-
formation scene is the apotheosis of the doctor,
and that he will introduce a moral circus by himself,
clowning to the lady who flies through the hoops in
woollen hose and fustian knee-breeches.
• * *
Those who wish to indulge in an “ orgie,” a la
mode should now go to Herberton, on the newly-settled
Wild River, in far Northern Queensland. At Herberton
the P.R. is in a very healthy state. Every night men
stripped to the waist, and encouraged by the shouts of
an enthusiastic crowd, fight in the main street; and
battle succeeds battle with more than panoramic
rapidity. To keep the miners in order there are only
two police—a sergeant and a constable. The two M P.’s
for Cooktown—John Walsh and the illustrious Fwed.
Cooper—don’t look after the interests of the field, which
are practically in the hands of Mr. Macrossan, the
Queensland Minister for Mines; and as none of the
leading men, such as machine owners, storekeepers,
&c., belong to Mac's clique, no J.P.’s are appointed.
In fact, the police don’t make arrests for anything short
of murder, as the nearest J.P. lives at Thornborough,
on the Hodgkinson, 50 miles off; and the sergeant says
“it wouldn’t do to keep a man so long on the chain.”
The other night a “ grand ball ” was given at an
“ hotel,” when two ladies fell out through jealousy.
Ribbons, lace, &c. —for they have such articles even at
Wild River—fiew in all directions. The gentle creatures
tore and screamed at each other, but were eventually
separated. The woman who had the worst of the fight
went home, and when remonstrated with by her para-
mour—in the very far North, marriage certificates are
at a discount—she took up a pick and sent it clean
through his thigh. And yet the police take no notice.
* • *
And, by-the-way, my obliging correspondent
tells me that the sergeant the other day left the field
temporarily On important business. During his ab-
sence a Parnell meeting was held in a large bark
humpy off the main street. The constable’s attention
was directed to the edifice by, to use his own words,
“the violent speeches and smell of liquor." The
Queen’s representative was knocked down and stunned,
“ his beautiful full-grown beard and moustache were cut
off, his clothes cut to bits. His body even now is
black and blue, and all he remembers is that he found
himself naked in his tent and tattooed all over with
ink.” The sergeant, it is believed, has. since “ made
enquiries in the matter,” but with what success my
informant doesn’t know.
* « *
The Wild Elver is evidently at all times a nice
place. But on the occasion of a “ Parnell meeting ’’
there really must be great fun.
* * *
A well-known sporting pugilist of another colony
was lately proposed as a member of Victorian Tat-
tersall’s, and was blackballed. His proposer, in
telling him the unwelcome news, complained bitterly
of the “ arbitrary power.” “ ’Erbert Power, eh ?”
retorted the pugilist. “I know him. Won’t Igo for
him the next time I ketches him 1”
* *
I notice that, the other day, five ladies were
elected to the St. Pancras (London) Board of Guardians.
It is probable that there would bo more city funds and
less city swindles were a few guardian angels installed
in the Sydney Hotel de Ville. Why should this not be ?
Tho pretty girls would get most votes, and as to be
pretty one must be young, the old" women who now do
the muddling would be replaced by people who, though
they mightn’t need quite so much watching, would still
be worth looking after.
* * *
A subscription was started among the 850
Chinese who arrived by the Giamis Castle the other day
with the object of providing a new coat for a certain
prominent and wealthy but seedily-attired Government
official. However, the votary of Yam Yee Sam See
who elected himself treasurer, bolted with the money.
But this circumstance should not beheld in any way to
detract from the desire shown by the celestials to keep
up the official dignity of the authorities.
• * #
When the royal youngsters land here, we sup-
pose the local bards will lubricate them in the usual
manner with Odes, and “ Commemorative Stanzas.”
This, and wrestling with the fist of the Town Clerk will
be amongst the principal tortures that will be tho first
day inflicted upon our future King, and his brother.
Well, we are so excited at the idea of gazing upon
royalty, that we find we can’t keep in our loyalty until
the boys arrive in Sydney. The bung has come out of
onr cask of poetry, with the appended frenzied result—
We understand, from a rose-scented paragraph
in the Federal Australian, that there is shortly to be
started in Sydney a weekly journal, which is to be de-
voted entirely to the interests of the “ upper crust ” of
this city. The price of the journal will be half-a-crown
per copy, and it will be printed on “old gold,” upon
mauve satin, with a medioeval border. The title of the
publication will be The Elite, and its policy will be the
ultra-aesthetic. It will have four editors —two charming
young ladies, whose mob caps have lately created
a, furore at the theatre, and two elegant young gentle-
men, who have justly gained a great celebrity in the
fashionable world by always fainting at the odour of
violets. A prominent male member of the Romany
Amateur Dramatic Club will undertake the duties of
theatrical critic. Due notice will be given to the lessees
of the various temples of the drama of the nights he
intends to honor their theatres with his presence, in
order that a carpet may be laid down in the main
entrance, and the gubernatorial centre of the dress
circle reserved for his accommodation. A great feature
of The Elite will be its exchange column, which will
enable subscribers to “ swap” their water-colour draw-
ings for second hand warming pans, and their wax
flowers for box-irons, without having to undergo the
humiliating process now rendered unavoidable by the
crass independence of the “ avuncular relative.” A site
for a suitable office has not yet been secured, but we
understand that a well-known fashionable man, who up
to the present has lived solely on the potato-starch on
the stamps he used for his promissory notes, and who,
now that impressed paper has come into use, finds it
necessary to procure other means of subsistence, will
accommodate the literary staif, pending arrangements
for the erection of the floral bover in which The Elite
is to be edited, and from which it is to be published.
Runners will have to bring with them a Turkish bath
receipt before being allowed to hawk copies. The first
illustration will be, it is said, a portrait drawn from life
of His Excellency’s dorking pullet. Artists; Messrs.
Postlethwaite and Mandle. Hooray!
* * #
A correspondent writes to enquire what has
become of that journal whose success was assured before
it appeared. What does he mean ?
* * *
A big circus—or a sensational libel case—must
have been monopolising the attention of the people of St.
Petersburg for some time. More than two months
have gone by, and the new Czar still lives. Hang it!
This is getting monotonous !
* # #
“At Colac, a female child has died from the
effects of two drops of chlorodyne, given by the mother
to send it to sleep."
The baby cried, and oh, she made
A vacantxe most infernal ;
And “ little mother ” couldn’t sleep.
Or even read the ‘‘journal.’’
And so a dose she gave it, which.
Poor thing, she now must rue so! —
For though the mother woke all night.
The babe forgot to do so.
'Twas only, too, a little dose,
Just given for to “ fix ” her ;
No worse than soothing syrup, or
That Daffy’s nice “ elixir.”
Good Templars sore will quote this case,
And in each speech say, “ Such, sirs.
The fate was of a baby who
Took just one drop too much, sirs.”
THE PHANTOM SHIP.
Every great city is said to have, amongst all her
small mysteries, one great one, the interest in which,
far from decreasing as it lives on from year to year,
becomes more and more intense as time passes. We
could speak of many cities which have their grands
mysteres— problems which have puzzled the learned and
scientific for many generations; but as it don’t pay to
crowd too much information into one par., we will pro-
ceed at once to state that Sydney, in common with
other great centres, has her mystery, and many a time,
as the wild winds of the Pacific have banged, in the
dead of night, against our window paries, have we lain
awake and thought over it until our blood curdled.
The mystery to which we allude is in Darling
Harbour. It is situate on the Balmain side, not far
from the first ferry. It is a ship. More than this—it
is a ship on stocks; and more still—it is a ship, the
timbers of which, so long has it been building, have
grown as white as the beard of a venerable juryman for
whom we keep a very warm earner indeed, in our
hearts. Since the memory of the oldest inhabitant the
ship has been building, and it is stated on the best
authority that it has taken exactly 65 years to cover
over the ribs with timber. On cold, grey mornings, as
the ferry passes, sometimes two ghastly beings are seen
gesticulating on a stage rigged on the port side of the
ship, and apparently arguing the point about the advisa-
bleness of driving a nail in. Sometimes the nail is driven,
and sometimes not —but generally not; but if anything
is done —why, then, both men mysteriously vanish, and
stay away so long that when they come back the wind
has driven the nail out again, and it is found lying on
the stage ready once more for the sacrifice.
On one occasion the two ghastly workers were
actually seen to affix a piece of bulwark to the stem
part of the vessel, and just as people were beginning to
think things were moving along again, 10, the phantom
shipwrights again vanished, and once more all was
gloom and desolation. They remained absent so long
on this occasion that when they returned they dis-
covered a boy busily engaged chopping away the bow-
sprit for firewood. He chopped and chopped, and at
last the bowsprit and the boy fell into the water. The
phantom ,r potterers ” recovered the bowsprit with great
difficulty; but they didn’t recover the boy.
Now what are these men? And what is this
ship ? Are they ebon-livered filibusters stealthily pre-
paring a vessel, which is—Van Tromp-like—to sweep
the Southern seas P Can they be men who have made
a large wager that they will taka longer building a ship
than the people, in days of yore, took topping up St.
Peter’s Cathedral ?
* # #
“At the Consular dinner the chairman, Dr.
Krauel, said that in the other Australian colonies it was
the custom for the consuls on Queen’s Birthday to have
an opportunity of drinking with others Her Majesty’s
health, at the invitation of her Majesty’s representative.
In this colony, however, a different custom seemed to
prevail, and the consuls, to show their loyalty to the
Queen, bad deemed it desirable to meet together in a
body and do honor to the Sovereign under whose benefi-
cent rule they had the good fortune to live.”
Away with such economy !
You’re too “near,” Lord Augustus!
Eight " thou.” a year—oh, really, fle!
Such conduct does disgust us.
You collar all ths “ rhino,” and —
O “ capper ” of our laws—
Each bunch of “ fives ” upon your hand
Is but a saving claws.
Launch out, old boy! The consuls stand
Just once a year a banquet ;
And give three natives of the land.
Say, each one— half a blanket.
Sand trade up with a fancy ball;
Give good weeds ”to the men;
Give us —well. Lord Augustus, all
We'll ask’s a cock and hen.
* * *
At the annual distribution of blankets to the
sons of the soil at Windsor on Queen’s Birthday, one
darkey, having got his “ blangey,” said that he consid-
ered himself entitled to another, by reason of the fact
that he had no wife. Then another blackfellow came
along and asked for blanket No. 2, because he had a
wife. Public feeling was with that man.
TO MARY BOYLE.
“A Bullet-(in). — The proprietress of the Carcoar
Chronicle will cross swords with the Editor of The
Bulletin next week. Want of space prevents a reply to
his facetious par. this issue."— Carcoar Chronicle.
With trembling we await thy thrust;
Unpointed is our foil, dear Mary.
Before ’tis over-ripe we must.
They say, not lance a Boyle, dear Mary.
* * *
A Mudgee man’s dog was run over and terribly
mutilated the other day, so his owner determined to
“put him out of bis misery.” First he gave him a
dram of prussic acid—Scheela’s strength—a quantity
sufficjent to poison an army. The dog died at once, but
subsequently “resurrected” and got quite lively. Then
he was given another teaspoonful of “ hydrocyanic,”
and, in the elegant words of the local paper, “ flopped
down, stretched out in all the apparent agonies of impend-
ing death.” However, Toby got well again, and was then
treated to 10 gr. strychnine, whereupon “ for the third
time he went off into what looked like a fatal swoon.**
But it is needless to say that he once more revived.
Then shooting was tried. One bullet was sent through
his forehead and another put behind his ear. “ After
the lapse of a few hours he appeared quite lively again,”
and then they adzed him. He died peacefully—in fact
he was all pieces—at last. Now I was going to say that
either this dog or the man who tells the yam must have
kept up his spirits very extensively. But I will now
content myself by observing that either Mudgee poison
and bullets are very weak, or Mudgee dogs very strong—
or Mudgee newspaper men . Well, let |us sing the
853 th psalm.
* * *
Mr. Gall Wormwood, when he heard of the in-
vention by the Hon. John Lucas, the other day, of a
silt and sewerage elevator, remarked that, as the Hon.
John bad hitherto never legislatorially done much to
elevate anything, it was satisfactory to learn that he
was at last getting to work.
* # *
Monday’s Herald, in reporting a Horticultural
Society committee meeting, alluded to a certain Mr
Joseph Graham as “Mr. Joseph Graham, C.M.Q.’*
Now, I never before heard of such a gentleman with
such a title. I wonder when Mr. Graham was ennoblea,
and how much he’ll take for his “ handle?” But then
you know a reporter is only a mortal. The thing now is
not to remember those who are C.M.G 'S, but those who
aren’t.
* * *
The champion liar of Australasia is the Sydney
telegraphic correspondent of the Melbourne Asasias.
This electric Thersites managed, on Saturday week, to
squeeze nine lies into eight lines. Now, we consider
that any reasonable man should be satisfied with a lie a
line. But some people are such gluttons.
V.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Rev. Father Henneberry is on a temperance
crusade in the western districts of Victoria,
Archbishop Yaughan formally opens St. Charles’
Ecclesiastical Seminary, Bathurst, on Sunday, June 12.
A cable states that the Rev. Robertson Smith
has been expelled from the Presbyterian Church for
heresy-
Rev. C. C. Dnnstan, brother of Canon Dunstan,
of Forbes, succeeds Rev. P. B. Boyce in the incumbency
of Orange.
A royal commission on Ritualism is to be
appointed. Until it reports, there are to be no more
prosecutions.
The Rev. A. D. Kininmont, of Melbourne, an
old and respected Presbyterian clergyman, died on the
19th iust. at Kew, Melbourne.
The value of property belonging to the Epis-
copal See of Adelaide is about £lO,OOO, and the income
of the diocese is £15,000 a year.
Last year Carlyle spoke of the snuff of doubt
with which sceptics [and so-called leaders of thought
were trying to sneeze God out of the universe.
The will of the late Rev. Father O’Callaghan, of
Victoria, is to be contested on the grounds that testa-
tor’s mind was unsound. It is sworn under £3OOO.
Very Eev. Dean Gibney, of Glenrowan fame,
has been visiting Tamora. He blames the authorities
for not having called on him to give evidence at the
Kelly enquiry.
Speaking at Pyrmont, Archbishop Yaughan
stated that since his arrival in the colony, no less than
£200,000 had been subscribed for religious purposes in
the archdiocese alone.
The Rev. F. B. Boyce, of Orange, who went
home in the John Elder, was presented by the pas-
sengers with an address and a parse of sovereigns at
the conclusion of the voyage.
The Hon. W. H. Reynolds, of New Zehland, in
the olden times acted as bell-ringer, precentor, door-
keeper, sole office bearer, and sometimes even preacher
of St. Andrew’s church, Dunedin.
It is reported that Colonel Robert Ingeraoll is
about to visit New Zealand. However, there are so
many hot springs in the Island that Bob will find a
difficulty in shaking the New Zealand people’s faith in
Hell.
The new order of things at St. Andrew’s Cathe-
dral continues to attract crowds. Last Sunday after-
noon and evening, the edifice was inconveniently
crowded—an occurrence which has never previously
been reported with reference to the Cathedral.
Mr. Gladstone lately stood godfather to the
infant child of Lady Rosebery (Miss de Rothschild) at
its baptism in the parish church of Epsom. This is
said to be the first instance on record of ’ a Jewish
mother giving up her child to the Gentile.
The Rev. Dr. Dattner Jacobson, senior Jewish
minister of Victoria, last week travelled all the way
from Melbourne to Hay to perform the ceremonial
rites in accordance with the tenets of the Jewish faith
on the infant son of Mr. Henry Bantwitch. Several
leading residents witnessed the ceremony, and partook
of a dejeuner provided for the occasion.
The Roman Catholics are about to establish a
mission at New Guinea, the Rev. Dr.- Cani having
already left Cooktown for that purpose. The
Eev. Mr. Chalmers writes to Mr. Chester, P. M.
at Thursday Island, that Dr. Cani is welcome. The
Holy Howl needn’t blast Chalmers' prospects in life—
which, by the way, appear to consist principally of low
fever and a spear through his gizzard. All Chalmers
wants is to get Cani up there and convert him.
Rev. J. W. Henry, formerly of Rockhampton,
and for the last two years ministering at Maryborough,
has left the Congregational for the Anglican Church.
In his farewell sermon he, says the local paper, “ only
slightly alluded to his reasons for leaving, dwelling
particularly on the advice given by St. Paul m the text
(2 Cor. xiii., ii.), which he impressed on his audience,
and concluding by fervent wishes and prayers for the
Church’s unity and prosperity.” We haven’t time just
now to look up the text in question, but we’d be by no
means surprised if it alluded to the necessity of those
who preach the Gospel living by the Gospel.
Mr. Charles Campbell writes to the Australian
Churchman a letter in reply to a correspondent who
denies the right of colonial incumbents to assume the
title of vicar. The correspondent in question quoted,
in support of his position, ‘‘Burns’ Ecclesiastical
Law,” “ Stephen’s Commentaries,” and “ Williams on
Real Property.” Mr. Campbell points out that these
high authorities refer to adcousons of vicarages, and the
difference between advftwsons appendant and advowsons
in gross, whereas the opinion he formerly expressed in
the columns of the Churchman was confined to the
legality of the title of vicar, and was based upon the 31
and 32 Viet., c. 117 (passed in 1868, “to secure uni-
formity of designation amongst incumbents”), and the
object of whicn enactment was mainly to convert all
perpetual curates into vicars.
“ Anglicanus,” of the Churchman, speaks of
“ the wretched Socinian, with a turn for burlesque
rhyme," who has recently launched,a petty shaft against
the Athanasian creed, and “ wires in ” to the Sydney
Echo for having quoted his reference to its " errors
sonorous,” “its truculent error.” “Anglicanus”
quotes Stanley: “If one listens to the ‘ triumphs of
Clovis and Eecared over the Arians of Prance and
Spain, it will be more easy to catch the true meaning
of their echo in the ‘ Quicunque Vult.’ " For once (as
Stanley continues) “ regard ‘ confessions of faith in
their true historical light, and a new glimps e will be
obtained of their practical justice and moderation;
many a harsh expression will be explained; many a
superfluous scruple of honest minds will vanish away;
many a foolish controversy will be extinguished for
ever.”
An extraordinarily stout Frenchman was an in-
tending passenger by train from Paris to Bordeaux
lately, but it was found to be quite impossible for him
to get into any of the carriages, he being too large for
the door. So he was accommodated with a seat on a
luggage truck. His weight is given at 33st. 131 b., and
he measured 9 feet 9 inches round the waist.
An Arab, in flowing white turban and robe,
appeared in Auckland the other night. He had been a
deport*? to New Caledonia, and his time having expired,
he was on his_ way home again. He was one of the
leaders of the insurrection which took place in Algeria
at the end of the Franco-Prussian war, and which was
brought about by the country being nearly denuded of
French troops. The exile is a remarkably fine and
manly-looking fellow and will find things in Algeria and
Tunis very much to his mind when he gets back.
LOYAL ODE.
We bid ye, O most puissant Princes twain,
A long Colonial hail I
You’ve sailed the roaring, raging, rumbling main.
And braved the gloomy gale;
And so, all hail!—now, please boys,don’t you laugh!—
About our hail there is no half-and-half.
You lads are young; and so we grieve for you.
You’ll see our meanest side;
You’ll see our beauty grovel; by our elders, too,
A serf’s servility will he outvied ;
They’ll worship you, like Aaron the Gold Calf,
And give you picnics to—well, not Clontarf.
Oh, how they’ll swarm around you, princely mids.;
And what a joke ’twill be.
To shake the thrice benzine-scour’d half-crown kids
Of our own noble C.M.Q.
And lord! you young scamps, won’t you grin and stare
When you the Town Clerk hear, and see the Mayor!
We give you welcome, lads, but yet we wish.
Somehow, you’d stayed away;
The fact is—well, we hesitate—yet, pish!
This time, at least, we’ll have our say !
The fact is, boys, we don’t like you or “ Pa”
To realize sycophants we are
So—“Eule Britannia,” and “ God Save the Qaeen,”
Hooroo for England’s flag!
Would we had, dear boys, in our mem’ries green
Another droll, yet loyal '* gag”—
But, as we haven’t. Princes, here’s instead,
“ Your’s” in good whisky. Now we’ll go to bed.
* * *


Public Compai
C
OENWALL FIEE AND IV
ance comp an
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
EESEEVE FUND
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD A 1
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEI
SIDNEY.
R 0 BONO P
the mutual teade peote
TION OF N. S. 1
J. HUEST, Seceet
Offices: 32 BEIDGE STEEE
Established upon tke most improv<
for the protection of Merchants i
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, u
the leading Mercantile communit
The following business is underta
or through the intervention of
licitor: —
The recovery of rents and debts
otherwise, by written or personal 8
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or ass
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, a
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Eegistered Do(
The Certificates of fradulent orlunp
opposed in the interests of cre(
Debts proved in insolvent estates,
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and ma
Searches and Private Inquiries mad
A Credit Guide issued periodical
Notices ’’ sent to members when
Assigned Estate supervised or liq
Searches or Inquiries made apd ai
all kinds of Mortgages, Bills c
Liens, Protection Orders, &c.
Postages, Cash Outlay for Court
accordingly.
Eecords Filed at the Offices of ti
ceming all Eegistered Acts es
United States, England, Scotian
Australian Colonies, New Zealand
N.B.—The facilities thus offered
public enable those who wish t<
transactions j;o achieve both lega
tion by the powerful co-operation
upon mutual principles.
Membership for Inquiry Branc
annum. Membership for General
annum.
SELLABLE COUNTEY AGES
JNCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SEEVICE BANKIN'
CIAL PEOVIDENT SOCIE
In the event of loss of si
MEMBEES are entitled to recei
th the amount instu
The Society also uses its inflnen
suitable re-engagen
For further particulars apply to
G. HOETON MOS
S
Wei
]
Applications for Agencw
Photographe:
PARLOUR S'
The Eeally Popular (and cheap)
805 GEOEGE ST
flrinnaifo t.Vio "R.fnlwn.V T
Public Compau
rj^HE
MERCANTILE BAN]
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital,
Eeserve Fund...
DIEECTOKS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gulley King
AUDITOES:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARY!
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Ge
BONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Banl
London Office, 30, Great £
Director —Edward Chap:
Agent—G. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Be
Agency Business on the mostfavou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England i
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURAN(
VICTORIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. 1!
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, S;
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Es(
This Society is established for Lil
granting of Annuities and Endowm
STEICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the entii
Society at every distribution there<
LOANS granted on Mortgage or <
combined with Life Assurance.
WM.
E
IHE INTERCOLONIAL L
ASSOCIATION, LI
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late
STREET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscril
Directors :
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M Q.,
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.I
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I H<
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E.
T. E. Smith, Esq., 1
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No enti
or other expenses; premiums re
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or wee!
FIEE DEPARTMENT.—Fire ri
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE A
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and 1
participate in the profit.
JAM
TNDUSTRIAL & PROVIDE!
JL BENEFIT BUILDING AI
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and
for Investors. Eight per cent. U
borrowers. Eight per cent, and
investors. The highest current rat
on Deposits. Prospectus and all
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIA.
E
XCELSIOR LAND INYI
building company &:
The above Company Sells Land
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estal
sham, a few minutee walk from 1
following liberal terms —viz.,
*9OO House. £2O Cash: Balanc
/M
N
i
m
UNADULTER ATE
BAK/NC POW.
s sszvuuiunAj:
‘lndia and China Tei
705 GEO E G E STEEET, HA
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new wa
We beg to call special attention of the public to our B]
Blend, 2 1- ; Finest Eoyal Blend, 2/6; Superior Queen s Blen
Packed by us, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee ot pm
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b ; also, catties, boxes, ;
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.-
rjIHE NE 1
AWARDED tl
foi
SYDNEY]
THE DAVIS
ABOVE THE
highly estimat
parts of the col
B. O,
SOMETHING NEW UNDEE TH
The Universal Sewii
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the Ne’
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Eace. Call an
T
H 0 S . J . BOW
ENGINEERS, BRASSFC
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, Si
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS ANE
Repairs of every descriptio;
107 BAT HUE ST-S TREE'
fJIHE BEST PAINT IN
"
TL
&
*
QURABL
ELASTIC
I
as
(»o S?
THE PACIFIC RUBBE
is mixed ready for i
supplied in cans containing 1 gal.
These cans form a convenient Pa
complete.
Similar testimony to the followin;
ns:—“Woollahra, Angust 20th, 188(


Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE NO MORE
but try
EANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES I
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any[of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give chem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE .WELL TO LOLLIES.
•a- Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
T ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDEE OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales,
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instan*
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson's Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be.
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
%* They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer— -
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
T HARVEY,
• WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS.
• BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors wqpld find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J, HARY E Y,
Hay and Engine Streets.
L L E N WEST
(Just from Europe),
PROFESSOR OF DANCING, Ac.,
Evening Adult classes, Mondays and Tuesdays, 8 p m.
Aduß Beginner’s classes, Saturdays 4 p.m. Children’s
classes, Thursdays 4.15 p.m.; Saturdays 2 p.m. Pasties
wishing private tuition in Boston and Slow waltzes, Ac.,
and latest fashionable Dancing, apply at-Hall from 11
till 12 noon, 344 Castlereagh-street, corner of Goulbum.
street. Residence, 161 LIVERPOOL STREET,
Business Announcements
H. PALING,
PIANOFOETE WAEEHOUSE,
352 George-street.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST EECEIYED
from the
BEST EACTOEIES of EUEOPE AND AMEEICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EYEET EENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVEE ALL OTHEES
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDEE and other EENOWNED MAKEES,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, PleyeTs, Anchor’s,
Sonfleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEOEGE STEEET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
T
HOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEEE & lEONFOUNDEE.
FLEE
AND
BUEGLAE
PEOOF
SAFES
AND
DOOES.
GIEDEES,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
BOXES,
&c., &c.
Works; SUSSEX STEEET, & GLEBE FOUNDEY,
Office and SHOW EOOMS, 220 PITT STEEET.
■ :i: r ' r ' -’VAmi. Makers ■
aajoOpt*c\jvms ’ ‘
£ ' •’.■'TCnVv t -' J A
r . } _l% HUNTER s
SnWr.r.
REDGATE’S
PATENT MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet fet
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
leM tor all Crocen aad StoNktewni
B.
AND F. W. MASON,
DEAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSUEANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS.
All matters carried out promptly. Flans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STEEET (near King-st.)
ESTABLISHED 1837.
P O W L E R’S P D T T E R T
AND
BRICK WORKS, ,
OAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Tobacconists
E ’ S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOE SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cat Baby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
15 9 PI TT STEE E T,
Next Post Office.
/
*
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine bat the BOUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
15 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
/r
3
A
Manufactured by
T.* S A T W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
■Jgj CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS.
. Pitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
608 George-street.
ICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT.
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
B
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
ft
H. HILDER,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
Chemists and Druggists
JpUBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON'S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
BO well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson's Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a moat valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
APOTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Neae Htdb Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by),
W. D. EAMESj Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT..
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies: —
EAMES’S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6, & 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctns, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis-
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TREATMENT for all
Nervous Disorders, which unfit sufferers for marriage,
&c., &e. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Chest, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—R. T.
SELBY, Medical Herbalist, John-street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
T> HELLYER,
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate,
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
G.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ebskiee Steeet.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.


JJLADON’S HEALTH SAL
jgLADON’S HEALTH SAT,
HEALTH SAT,
JJLADON’S HEALTH SAL
JJLADON’S HEALTH SAL:
JJLADON’S HEALTH SAL]
BLADON’S HEALTH SAL]
A combination of Oxygenatec
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and <
Taken according to directio
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is
ration a remedy as a preventive or
all Functional Irregularities of the
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitm
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sic
indigestion, the effects propuced
dulgence in rich food, or the
beverages ;Gout, Rheumatism, &c.
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphth
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, c]
diseases. It is especially serviceal
and should entirely supersede th
aperients. Children take it with
vigorating effect of an occasional d<
to successfully combat the insidious
It effectually destroys the Poison G
contracted in our daily walk throi
alterative and enriching qualities i
the vital fluid to perform, in a healt
functions in the wonderful econom)
piece—Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chemi
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH {
may justly be termed a BLOOD Dll
PPBQVED BY THE
Govenxmen
„ 10th ,
Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I ]
that the parcel was received in gc
reason of my not writing to yon bef
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ sho
am now directed to inform you tl
considers it MOST EFPIC AGIO CIS
“ I also can vouch for the same, an
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
“ Tours faith
“Reginald
“Mr. W. G. Bladon. **
LADON’S HEALTJ
B
The Australian Church)
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EPPERVI
We can honestly recomi
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFi
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRI
in the market.’’
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON,
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottle
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
K
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND G
COLONIAL AND IMPOETE!
Turret Clocks—simple, stri
Spectacles, etc., of a
Plain figures—Low ]
MASON BRO
&16 Stii
I THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS i
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
QNCE USED AL Vi
Trademark "Arm and Dolly” on
out which none is genuine. Ben
The GRAND GOLD TVTRT
HIGHEST MEDAL, Pi
HIGHEST AWARD, Sy
LATHEES FREELY, SOFT
AHD SHOULD ALWAYS I
For Washing Clothes, Linen, I
For Scouring Floors, Greasy V
TRADE
jyjAKE P
THE EOTAL FURNISH!
NEW AND BEAUTIFU
ATTRACTIVE PEI
A FEEE DISTRIBUTION of (
place daily, giving full informatior
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Housi
Honsi
Hcnsi
HouS'
The STOCK is of such extent t
have every opportunity of makini
and careful selections. All goods
figures so that parties who are no
to make purchases can pay visits o
tain every information in a please
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BE
LATE
W. B. CAMPBEI
EOTAL FURNISHING
Have you tried the Taeping Mixture ? Well
remember that the Importers have introduced the
TAEPniG Mixture to bring pure tea within the reach
of the public.— Adtt.
GIGGLES.
Philanthropic Friend—Did yon ever enjoy the
Epicurean luxury of a plate of turtle soup in a sixpenny
" full and plenty ” cook shop ? Many of these places
really do brew good soup but it has at times been libel-
lously stated that that at certain restaurants one half
of the beverage is composed of water, and the other
half is all water. In justice to the spirited proprietors
of these institutions I therefore subjoin the correct re-
ceipt for boarding-house soup by the only Soyer. “ Take
a bucket of water, and wash it clean ; boU it till it is
brown on both sides, and then add more water. Pour
in one small potato, and when the lot begins to simmer
scrape off the scum with a rake and save for jellies. If
the soup won’t simmer it is a sign it is toe rich, and
requires more water. Dry the water well with a towel
before you put it in; the drier the water the sooner the
soup browns; throw in the contents of another bucket;
strain the whole through a cane-bottomed chair; flavor
with a lump of chalk, or a few corks, stir briskly round
with a tallow candle, serve the lot up boiling hot, and
then start a lively chat about the Basuto war in order
to assist digestion and restrain the undesirable flights
of a suspicious boarder’s imagination.
* * *
Mr. Adolphus Pawker writes to say he experi-
ences an uncontrollable disgust every time he visits
Compagnoni’s at the sight of lovely female “ cree-
chaws” partaking of gross, unromantic pies and
"corfay,” and he would like to know if any other
"fellah” ever had a like sensation. Mr. Pawker will be
flattered to hear that no less a personage than Lord
Byron was very much troubled with the same complaint.
Lovely female creechaws should certainly live on
suction, as nothing knocks the poetic stuffing out of an
aesthetic young man more than the sight of a beautiful
ethereal-looking charmer picking up the back of a fowl
with both hands, and greasing herself from ear to ear
with the gravy. There is one thing, however, which
builds up an “ uncontrollable disgust” even more than
the above, and that is when the “ lovely female eree-
chaw” turns round to her bankrupt fellow nearby,
and asks if he’s got the cash to pay for another plate-
ful. That’s the time you begin to wonder why you
were ever bom, Adolphus.
* * *
It was at a “mutual improvement” debate the
other evening, and a young man arose to deliver himself
of an oration. After speaking two hours, he stopped as
if he had forgotten something. His mouth was wide
open, and there seemed to be no inclination on his part
to close it. It is often thus, you may say, with young
men at debating societies. His eyes started from their
sockets, and he became blue in the face —but not from
the passion of his eloquence. A weird, unearthly ex-
pression prowled round his countenance, sometimes
concentrating itself on one comer of his mouth, some-
times diffusing itself in horrid wrinkles all over his
alabaster forehead—a forehead four feet one inch wide,
and on which pearls would have looked dusky. The
audience became deeply interested, some of them were
even terrified. “ Heart disease,” one young lady said;
too much zoedone and pickles, others surmised. The
young man gazed vacantly for ten seconds. Then he
bolted, knocking down two forms, three chairs, and the
secretary. The latter followed him, and found the
orator fishing out a full set of false teeth from his
msophagus. “ Just as I was getting to my peroration
on the advantages of the Sunday-school system," he
gasped. "My girl won’t look at me now. Heaven is my
home.”
THE LAUGHING JACKASS.
THE KOOKABURRA.
“ Court” circulars—Love-letters.
Marriage is a mirage, celibacy a sell.
“ A rum ‘ go.’ ” —Depriving Jack o£ his grog.
A political “ small bore.”—Mirams, of Mel
bourne.
Plagiarism in its worst form.—Small pox from
the Chinese.
The needle on board the ship that went ashor e
had not a good eye.
“Let us irrigate,” is the latest for Buvons, or
“ let’s have a drink.”
“The stamp of beauty,” as the polite man said
when the pretty girl trod on his toes.
We expect the Frozen Stakes to be on the pro-
gramme of the mxt Orange “ meet.”
Said he : “I seal my love with a kiss.” Says
she : “ I seal mine with whacks.” And she whacked,
M'Guffin says that the stolen Ferret is like the
Queen’s carriage, because it bears the Impress of India.
Thursday’s Herald tells us that a Mr. Evans
has married a Miss Shilling. This Shilling is now
changed—by Evans!
Party in the pit to friend in the dress circle s
“ Hullo, ’Arree! why, what on earth took you up
there ?" ’Arree: “ A border, Billee—a horder.”
In the first transports of delight the happy
father rushed into the room, exclaiming, “ I’ve got a
sonand after time for reflection he added, •* he’s a
boy I”
When poor Mark Twain dies, the intelligent
compositor will of course seize the opportunity to con-
vert the usual announcement into a statement that
Mark leaves a “ humorous family.”
They say in Melbourne that he is a cruel man
who, on a moonlight night, pegs on his clothes-line
back numbers of the Age, and chuckles at •• snowdrop-
pers,” who mistake them for fine linen.
“Eugenie, Eugenie, will you still insist on
wearing the hair of another woman upon your head ?”
“ Alphonse, Alphonse, do you still insist upon wearing
the skin of another calf upon your feet ?”
The daughter of a settler in Oamaru district,
N Z., was kept from school one day recently, to assist
in the potato field. When she returned to school her
written “ excuse ” was “ Kepatomataterin.”
Dickey, five years old, objects to fat. Gover-
ness : “ Eat your fat, Dickey; your cousins eat it all—
they like it.” Dickey : “ They like it P” Governess :
“ Certainly.” Dickey : “ Well, give ’em mine.”
At a recent examination, one of the questions
was, ‘‘Give any text which to your mind distinctly
suggests the evidence of what is called a Hell.” That
text given was : “I go before to prepare a place for
you!"
Last report of the Victorian Education Depart-
ment is responsible for the story that the line from
Gray’s Elegy, “ The curfew tolls the knell of parting
day,” was thus explained by a teacher: “ A curfew is a
bird with a long bill and tail, and many's the one I’ve
shot in the bogs of Quid Ireland!"
An Indian snake-yarn: A rattlesnake never
bites anything it swallows, and can cram a toad down
its throat whole. The other day a snake came upon a
toad unawares. The toad took up a piece of stick six
inches long and held it in the centre of his mouth.
The snake couldn’t stretch its mouth six inches, and
soon gave up the job.
Fanny Field in the Prairie Farmer, peremp-
torily states:—“ Light brahmas lay 135 eggs per
annum; seven to the pound." That’s so, Fanny. We
have a light brahma in our yard which comes to the
back door on New Tear’s day and apologises if she has
only totalled 13-i, and if any week she runs less than
seven to the pound she always works on Sunday to lay
one extra.
He was a Launceston boy of 12, and went to the
entertainment given by a cheap John, who sold, among
other things, tooth-powder. Next day he was in a
chronic state of grin, and at last he explained to his
parents: “ Don’t you see any great change in me,
because last night I had my teeth cleaned, and I
thought everyone would notice the difference in me and
the man he gave me a box of powder for nothing what
ought to have cost a shilling, because I let him hold me
up to the public while he cleaned my teeth, and indeed
I intend to clean them once a month reg’lar now.**


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Any.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. H. E. Cohen, barrister-at-law, has been ap-
pointed an acting District Court Judge.
It is understood that Mr. W. H. Symon,
Attorney-General of S.A., is to be created Queen’s
Counsel.
Mr. Vernon (“Vemey”) Cameron, the well-
known Melbourne cricketing solicitor, has died after a
short illness.
The splendid numismatic collection made by the
late Capt. M‘Lerie is now in the possession of his son,
Mr. A. M’Lerie, of Yass.
The daily ‘‘refresher,” on the brief held by
Mr. Holroyd, Q.C., in the Lament will case at Mel-
bourne, is marked 100 guineas.
Sir Frederick Leighton’s great picture at the
Royal Aeademv this year represents Elijah in the act
of breathing life into the body of the widow’s child.
Rear-Admiral Earl Clanwilliam, who commands
the Detached Squadron now visiting the colonies, was
formerly, as Lord Gilford, first naval lord of the
Admiralty.
Professor Pepper has given two out of a series of
three scientific lectures at the Chamber of Manufac-
tures, Adelaide. Subjects :—“ Light,” “ Heat,” and
“ Electricity.”
Mr. Marshall Wood, the eminent English sculp-
tor, who executed the statue of Her Majesty which
stood under the dome of the Garden Palace) has arrived
in Sydney from Melbourne.
Albert Victor, the eldest sen of the Prince of
Wales, is a tall, slender, delicate-looking boy, slightly
resembling his grandfather. His brother George is
short, stout, and round-headed.
Mr. James Miller has the Kimberley district, the
whole of which is described by Forrest as excellent
country. Mr. Miller intends to form a company to
work this magnificent property.
Mr. M’Giffin, chief of the Statistical Department
in the Board of Trade, has been appointed principal
city editor of the London Times. He relinquished
£lOOO a year at the Board of Trade.
One day a friend said to Gambetta, “ Your
entourage reminds me of Ali Baba.” “ It is far worse,”
replied Gambetta; “ there were only forty of them.”
John Davies couldn’t have put the case more neatly.
John Millais’s “ Cinderella ’’ is the most beauti-
ful of his late works. It will grace the Christmas
supplement of the Illustrated London News. The
model was little Miss Buckstone, daughter of the late
celebrated comedian.
Gresley Lukin, late editor of the Queens-
lander, has started for Thursday Island to meet the
Queensland Premier returning from England, and to
discuss his (Lukin’s) Railway project, while voyag-
ing back to Brisbane.
Captain Carey, of French Prince Imperial noto-
riety, has determined to join the transport service,
leaving his regiment, the Ninety-eighth, and ceasing to
be a combatant officer. We never knew before that he
had been a combatant officer.
The much-travelled R. S. Smythe has, we regret
to hear, been disappointed. Mr. Archibald Forbes, who
was to join him at Auckland, did not come by the
mail. Mr. Forbes is not in good health and has, ac-
cording to a private cable, returned to Europe.
Mr. Thomas Southwell, J.P., one of the oldest
and most respected residents of the Queanbeyan dis-
trict, died at his residence, Parkwood, on Tuesday
morning. Mr. Southwell arrived m the district 40
years ago, and was when he died 67 years of age.
Capt. Raymond, the inventor of phosphorised
oats, by means of which the rabbit nuisance is being
rapidly abated in Victoria, is to be substantially testi-
monialised by landholders. It is thought that the Vic-
torian Government will be represented in the matter.
The big breach of promise case, Eccles v.
Wilson, which was to have been heard at the Supreme
Court, Melbourne, on Monday last, and to which all
the southern goguenards were looking forward with the
most lively interest, was “amicably settled" by the
lawyers.
Mr. William Anderson Ogg, of the firm of
Prince, Ogg and Co., Sydney, has been appointed one of
the sheriffs of London. This year two Australian
merchants thus hold two out of three of the most im-
portant of London civic offices, the Eight Hon. William
McArthur being Lord Mayor.
One of the features of the recent royal wedding
at Berlin, was that while the Crown Prince, the Prince
of Wales, Count Moltke, and other notabilities, were
greeted with loud hurrahs by the spectators, the young
bridegroom, who rode at the head of his company,
passed without being recognized.
Vanity Fair, of which rather inane periodical
the Earl of Desart has for the last year been responsible
editor, says that there is a contemplated alliance
between the Earl named and Miss Bischoffsheim, eldest
daughter of the well-known financier. £125,000 down,
and as much more when her father dies.
The Melbourne Herald states, “ on good
authority,” that Superintendent Hare, who has been
announced as a candidate for the V.R.C. secretaryship,
has no intention of leaving the police force. Mr. N. E.
D. Bond (sporting editor of The Leader), the veteran
sporting writer and handicapper, is a candidate.
Lord William P. Lennox, the genial octo-
genarian sportsman and sporting writer is dead. He
was the son of the fourth Duke of Richmond. When
his first wife. Miss Caton, the singer, eloped with a
vocalist named Wood, people said that, like the Jews of
old, “ she had deserted the Lord, and made an idol of
Wood.”
Rev. Dr. Bromby writes to a Melbourne paper
on the Strong case. While admitting that the standards
of the Churches are “ obligatory in their main drift,” he
pleads that they should not be considered as being so in
their minuti®, and suggests that the standards, “ being
entirely of human origin although based on Scripture,
need review."
The second son of the late Mr. Butler Cole As-
pinall, Q.C., has been called to the English Bar. This
ytf'mg gentleman, with another of the family, has been
jL fortunate as to secure the patronage of H.E.H. the
/ 'Duke of Edinburgh, who while in Australia formed a
strong attachment for the erratic, brilliant and ill-
fated advocate, their father.
Dr. Lindeman, the well-known and highly-es-
teemed proprietor of the Cawarra estate, whose vin-
tages are famous even beyond the limits of Australia,
died in his 70th year on Monday week. He received
an award of merit for his wines at the Paris Exhibition
of 1867 and was a prominent member of the Hunter
River Vineyard Association.
Sir Frederick Roberts, the hero of Candahar,
who is a remarkably short man, goes dead against the
present shor:-service system in the army Sir Garnet
Wolseley—i tall man—on the other hand, condemns
long service, and has written a stirring article on the
subject in the Nineteeuth Century. Who shall de-
cide when generals (like doctors) disagree ?
Next to booksellers and publishers, Carlyle had
the greatest horror of hotels and waiters. In his
“ Reminiscences ” —just published—there is an amusing
account of a night spent by him and his better “ three-
quarters ” at the Ring’s Arms, Dumfries. “ Huge ill-
kept Inn ; bed opulent in bugs; waiter a monstrous,
baggy, tmwieldly old figure-hebetated, dreary, as if
parboiled."
Mr. E. G. Blackmore, the clerk-assistant, and
sergeant-at-arms of the South Australian Legislature,
has compiled and issued, in a handy volume of 300
Pages, the “ Decisions of the Eight Hon. Evelyn
Denison, Speaker of the Houseof Commons,” extending
fro ?r Ap ril 30,1857, to February 8,1872. This transcript
of Mr. Speaker Denison’s parliamentary mind should
be invaluable to members of colonial legislatures.
Mr. Archibald Forbes characterises the late
<< n' r as “*he only honest Russian he ever knew.”
He had the unhappiness.” says Mr. Forbes, “ of
being better than his race. He was a good man, who
honestly strove for a long time to make his people
Phrer and better, and who lived long enough to come
sadly to the conclusion that _ it was impossible, and
finally to become, in a shadowy way perhaps, tainted
with the universal corruption around him.”
Mr. Thomas Scott, of Point Clare, Brisbane
Water, who is in receipt of a pension of £240 a year
from the Government, in recognition of his services in
introducing the growth of sugar-cane into this colony,
is now 104 years of age, and is still well and hearty. He
is the father of a large family, all of whom have suc-
ceeded well in life, and are occupying good positions in
different parts of the colony. Not one of Mr. Scott’s
relatives is connected with the Civil Service.
The memorial portrait of Sir Redmond Barry,
painted by Mr. Geo. P. Folingsby, is now on view
at Melbourne. “iEegles” describes it as ‘‘the
grandest work that has ever passed from an easel in the
Australian colonies. . . . The composition is mas-
terly in conception, the pose of the figure being especi-
ally happy. . . . Looking at the picture one cannot
help feeling a pang of regret that the late Chancellor of
the University did not survive to see this * counterfeit
presentment’ of himself.”
Mr. Christopher Bennett, of the Evening News
and Town and Country proprietary, who has lately
returned from a visit to Europe, was on Saturday
evening last entertained at dinner at Compagnoni’s
rooms, by the literary and clerical employes of the
journals named. Mr. J. H. Davies, the commercial
manager, occupied the chair, the vice-chair being taken
by Mr. A. C.Beavan, editor of the News and Journal.
A very pleasant evening was spent and many kindly
sentiments exchanged on the occasion.
Mr. Barron, of the police department, Brisbane,
thus explains the discrepancies in his accounts. He
had the management of the native police expenditure,
for the purpose of which a reserve fund was placed in
his hands, and he was also instructed by the Colo-
nial Secretary to make the necessary disburse-
ments for the Transcontinental survey. No special
monies were placed in his hands for this purpose, and,
being suddenly called on to make such disburse-
ments for the survey, he had recourse,without warrant,
to the Native Police Reserve Fund. Hence arose the
discrepancies.
Although much mud has been thrown
at Mr, Levy-Lawson, in re his libel case against
London Truth, he is one of the most popu-
lar men in London, and, as Australian visi-
tors to England can testify, a really good fellow.
It certainly did transpire in the course Of the
trial that Mr. Lawson would be unable to pass the Civil
Service examination in geography, but for all that, he
is remarkably well versed in home and foreign politics,
and though cavillers may sneer if they choose, his
paper, the Daily Telegraph, has more influence with
the masses than all the other London papers put
together.
The Hon. Thomas Ware Smart, who died at
Mona, Darling Point, on Saturday, aged 71, was one of
those who took an active part in the anti-transporta-
tion agitation of from 1848 to 1851. He was afterwards
elected to the Legislative Assembly in the Liberal
interest. In 1861 he was Colonial Treasurer in the third
Cowper Ministry; and again in 1865-6, under Sir Charles
Cowper, he was appointed to the same position, but sub-
sequently undertook the secretaryship for Public
Works. While Colonial Treasurer he attracted con-
siderable attention by exposing the existence of a large
deficit in the public finances. He was summoned to the
Council on the 25th January, 1870, and remained a
member of the Upper House until his decease.
Henderson Africanus, “ the third ambassador,”
appeared at the Melbourne City Police Court the other
day with two lumps of what resembled clotted cream on
his right temple. Mounting the rostrum, he informed
Mr. Call that these white chalk marks were the result
of his step-daughter, a grown-up young woman, having
struck him violently with a teapot, “ because he slapped
her for being naughty.” The girl’s mother tried to
make out that it was her little son, a dark boy by a
former husband, who had wielded the pot, but the
ambassador would not allow this, and told Mr. Call that
it was “only a mother’s desire to shield her offspring."
The dispute arose over a statement by Henderson that
his step-daughter interfered with the newspapers which
he hawked. The bench discharged her, with a request
to abstain from violence.
Grenville Murray’s new book, “ The Swiss
Continent,” contains some fresh and amusing anecdotes
concerning the Duke of Wellington. A curious
instance of his courage may be seen in a conversation
he had with George IV., who had conceived that his
“ honour ” precluded his accepting Canning as a
Minister. “ I can’t, Arthur, I can’t, as a gentleman—
can I ? ” “ Your Majesty is not a gentleman,” answered
the Iron Duke, who proceeded to explain to his startled
king that a sovereign was not a gentleman, because he
was something—or rather somebody—more. The king
gave way. On another occasion the Duke was equally
brave, but more diplomatic. George IV., as is well
known, laboured under the delusion that he had been
present at the battle of Waterloo. One day at a state
banquet, he made this amazing statement, and appealed
to Wellington for confirmation. “ Tour Majesty has
often told me so,” was the diplomatic reply.
Prince Pierre Bonaparte is dead. He shot
Victor Noir, and nearly averted Sedan by provoking a
revolution. He had quarrelled with Pascal Grousset,
who challenged him to fight a duel. Upon this it
occurred to his fertile brain that the simplest method
of settling a dispute was to shoot his adversary’s
second. For this indiscretion he was tried by a
carefully-prepared jury, and of course triumphantly
acquitted. Since then he has taken no part in public
affairs. His son, Prince Roland, married, a short time
ago, the daughter of M. Blanc, of Monaco. The
offspring of this alliance, being descended on the one
side from a homicide and on the other from a hell-keeper,
should, if they inherit the spirit of their ancestors,
possess many sterling and admirable qualities—
qualities which should eminently fit them to succeed
to the throne of—say, Russia.
A rather strange fact is revealed in the recently
published biography of Lord Clyde, the brilliant British
soldier who, while yet a youth, led the forlorn hope at
the storming of San Sebastian in the Peninsular Cam-
paign, and who thus laid the foundation for the military
renown subsequently won on many a well-fought field.
Lord Clyde enlisted at the age of 15, an ensigncy having
been granted him by the Duke of York on the recom-
mendation of an uncle. His father was a carpenter,
working for his living in Glasgow, by name Macliver. The
Duke of York when taking the lad’s name, entered it in
mistake as Colin Campbell s —remarking at the time,
“ Another of the clan, I suppose ?’’ Young Macliver
mentioned the circumstance to his uncle on leaving the
room, but the old man advised him to let the mistake
go—it would be better for many reasons; and from
that time till his death Lord Clyde was known as Colin
Campbell. It is satisfactory that no man in all the
clan ever brought greater credit to its name.
General Garfield, the American President, is
forty-nine, but he doesn’t look more than forty-five.
With the exception of Grant and Pierce, he is the
youngest chief magistrate who ever entered the White
House. About his face, tone of thought and mode of
speech, there is an abounding vitality that betokens the
most complete condition of manly health. His hair 'is
of a chesnut brown, cropped short; and he wears the
full beard with here and there some silver touches amid
Its brown luxuriance. In figure he is over the middle
height; his broad shoulders are well set back ; and his
shapely head is admirably poised on his firm rounded
neck. Jefferson excepted, he is the dnest scholar who
was ever promoted to the presidental chair, and he is
described as of engaging manner—cordial and simple,
yet perfectly dignified. The angels of his hearth-stone
are his beautiful little mother, and his wife—a quiet
gentle lady of the type dear to the English heart; soft
and retiring, yet full of tender thoughtfulness.
The publication of Carlyle’s “ Reminiscences,”
edited by Mr. Froude, and written by Carlyle ‘-when
over seventy, and while his life was embittered and
darkened by a great grief,” has been followed by a howl
of pain, and is a dire offence against Carlyle’s memory.
The book says the most savage things, with entire un-
reserve, against a number of estimable and inoffensive
people. The materials of which the book has been com-
piled were probably jotted down by the “ Chelsea sage”
during attacks of his constitutional hypochondriasis
and dyspepsia, and they were handed into Mr. Fronde’s
keeping with instructions to print all. any or none, as
he might think fit. Carlyle describes Charles Lamb
and his sister as “ a very sorry pair of phenomena.
Insuperable proclivity to gin in poor old Lamb. His
talk contemptibly small . . ghastly make-believe of
wit, diluted insanity.” Mill, with whom Carlyle took
Sunday afternoon walks, is “ wintry” and “ sawdustish”
in his talk. His company is “ not in the least genial”—
“ thin ale to be taken when there is no wine.” Mrs.
Taylor (J.S.M.’s Platonic flame) is “ a very will-
o’-wispish iridescence of a creature.” Lady Holland, in
whom Macaulay saw “ the remains of a fine woman,” is
“old Lady Holland, a kind of hungry ornamented
witch,” who “looks at me with merely carniverous
views.” And so on.
On the last day on which he was ever out, Lord
Beaconsfleld met an unimportant person, with whom he
entered into conversation. After a remark upon the
weather and an allusion to the tangled skein of politics
produced by the present Ministry, Lord Beaconsfleld
said—“ Tangled indeed! How will it all end ?” “ You
will smile at me. Sir," said the other, “ but I cannot
help thinking that it must end in a dissolution."
“Yes,” replied Lord Beaconsfleld, ‘-‘^es—fhat-put* an
end to most things.” Herewith he passed oh; and went
home —as we now sadly remember—to his own dissolu-
tion.
APRIL [?], 1881.
Oh, let him sleep ! He loved so dear
His country’s name and fame.
He would not wake again to hear
New tidings of her shame.
And always Beaconsfleld will live in story
As one who died when died our England’s glory.
—VANITY FAIR.
The bombs for the assassination of the late Czar
were made at Lugano from a model furnished by an
Italian. They are spherical in form, the case being of
thin iron, and containing dynamite and sulphuretted
charcoal, with, an inner globe of glass filled with ful-
minating mercury. They were smuggled into Russia,
and filled at St. Petersburg.
Mr. J. S. Butters, who has come prominently
before the Sydney public during the last few days as the
writer in the Melbourne Argus of an enthusiastic letter
concerning the material prosperity of Sydney and
N.S.W. generally—who, in fact, has been acting as a
Victorian Henri Taine in a small way—is one of the
most speculative, though least successful, men in
Melbourne, of which city he was formerly Mayor. His
term of office extended over the visit of H.E.H. the
Duke of Edinburgh, whom J. S. B. looked after pro-
perly. In fact it was said by a Southern paper—we
think the story has been told before in Sydney—that
every morning the Prince used to say in his prayers,
“ O Lord give us this day our bread without our But-
ters.” Mr. Butters was the husband of the handsome
and accomplished lady of that name whose impersona-
tion of “ The Press ” at the grand fancy dress ball
given during the Prince’s visit created such a furore.
Mrs. Butters, we are sorry to say, died recently. J. S.
attained additional celebrity from his connection with
the famous Mudgee “diamond” known as “Butters’
Kohinoor,” which, unfortunately, turned out to be
only a crystal after all, and was mockingly imitated by
the confectioners. He is well-known in connection with
Fijian matters, and was formerly an intimate friend of
King Cakobau, whose dominions he and a Melbourne
Company pretty well “bossed” for a good while.
There’s no more enterprising man in the world than
J. S. 8., who is bound to come out in the long run with
a gigantic pile. The fact that he praises up Sydney
shows that he either knows what’s good, or that he is
coming to do business with us shortly.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Forged notes of the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney are in circulation.
The Freemasons of N.S.W. are organising a
Masonic benefit institution.
A Melbourne company has paid <£250,000 cash
for Mr. George Fairbairn’s Landsdowne station, in
Queensland.
Mr. C. D. Nicholls says the gold industry in
Australia returns a profit of 40 per cent, on the cost of
production.
At Temora, Griffiths and party have raised a
large block of stone, completely studded with gold, from
their claim.
Donald M‘Donald and party’s first crushing of
100 tons quartz from their p.c., Milburn Creek, yielded
413 oz. gold.
It is expected that the Victorian Electric Co.
will be ready electrically to light up the Eastern Mar-
ket, Melbourne, by Ist July.
The direct trade between N.Z. and China is
rapidly increasing. £18,692 quarter ending last March,
as against £1535 during corresponding quarter, 1880.
At Horsham, Vic., a man has been committed
for throwing his son on the fire and refusing to allow
him to have his injuries attended to for several days.
The girl Nightingale, whose throat was cut some
weeks ago at Melbourne, by her jealous paramour,
Georgo Colley, is in a very low state, and likely to die.
The unfortunate young woman who with her in-
fant was recently taken from one of the streets of
Bathurst to the local hospital, is dead. The child sur-
vives.
Three hundred and ninety-three tons from No. 1
North Phoenix, Gympie, yielded 34760 z. This company
has declared in dividends, since February this year,
£29,000.
The proprietors of the Age and Leader con-
template actions against all the country papers which
have stated that the circulation of the journals named
has fallen off.
George Campbell, for oyster-stealing at the
Hunter, was fined £lO. The offence has become so
common that it is thought that imprisonment should
follow conviction.
The police, after much investigation, have con-
cluded that the kanaka who murdered Mr. and Mrs.
Jarvis at Maryborough went off in a boat, which has
since been found, and was drowned.
Great preparations are being made to give the
Ministerial party a suitable reception at Grafton—
though, by the way, one or two residents strongly ob-
ject to having anything to do with them.
The Hay people wish the district assizes to be
held at Hay, instead of at Deniliquin. As the local paper
suggestively puts it, a circuit court at Hay “ would
meet a want that would grow with the place.”
The Bathurst people are about to petition
Government to run excursion trains' from Sydney to
Bathurst, at rates similar to those on which such trains
are now being run to Mount Victoria end Lithgow.
Small-pox was abating at Honolulu when the
mail left. 1500 cases of small-pox were refused admis-
sion to the London hospital on account of the over-
crowded state of the institution, where 10 per cent of
the cases end fatally.
The profit on the shipment of frozen meat to
England from Melbourne per Protos, after paying all
expenses, was £955 17s. sd.—the profit per sheep being
from 4s. lOd. to 55., on the meat generally Id. per lb.,
and on the butter |d. per lb.
Mr. Gipps, C.E., was nonsuited in the slander
action brought by him against Mr. M'Elhone, M.L.A.,
in respect to a statement reflecting on plaintiff’s pro-
fessional capacity written in the pocket-book of Mr.
Withers, M.L.A. £5OOO damages were claimed.
At Kiama, the other day, a man named Stapleton
was fined £lO for having thrown a girl, hired by him
from the Randwick Asylum, on to a fire, poured scald-
ing water over her, and then threatened her with a
merciless beating because she applied to her mistress
for means to heal her injuries.
The latest from Nebo is that in addition to the
large nuggets already reported others weighing 14, 24,
10, 16 and 18oz. have been found. A correspondent of
the D. N. Argus tells a moat extraordinary story to the
effect that a man passed through Nebo with 2 cwt. gold,
which he had gathered together and wheeled 100 miles.
The members of the Kelly Board have tendered
their resignations. Mr. Murray Smith, the chairman,
says it was useless for gentlemen to give their time to
work to be afterwards thrown aside, and there was
great difficulty in pleasing everybody. Mr. Berry will
communicate with the Government of N.S.W. on the
subject at an early date.
A girl, who had recently summoned a man for
the maintenance of her illegitimate child, was found,
late the other evening, lying in the street at Bathurst
with her infant. She was in a very low state, and said
she had been turned out of the house where she had
been living, as she had no means. She was admitted to
the hospital, and has since died.
The Orange Slaughtering Co. advertise that
they are ready to purchase 100,000 turkeys, 100,000
i geese, 200,000 fowls, and 200,000 ducks for freezing and
export to England. The birds must be full grown, .fat,
and come up to an average standard in weight. Far-
mers will now,perhaps grow wheat and put it into
'fowls for export.
The other day, at Melbourne, Mr. Panton, P.M.,
made some allusion to the “ trivial charges" preferred
by the Crown in the Ferret case. When next the mat-
ter came on for hearing, Mr. Call, P.M., and not Mr.
Panton, presided. The Melbourne Herald wants to
know whether this extraordinary change was made at
the instance of the Crown.
On a recent Sunday, at Hamilton, Vic., Sparling,
a constable, meeting William Brown outside an hotel,
and thinking he had been buying liquor, pulled open his
(Brown’s) coat, and snatched out his handkerchief,
saying, when he found out his mistake, “ I thought you
had grog there.” Brown sued the constable for assault,
and got a verdict for nominal damages, with costs.
In Melbourne, when the police summon a man
with a view to making him swear that he has purchased
drink at a certain public house on Sunday, the lawyers
now direct the witnesses’ attention to a clause in the act
rendering any person who falsely represents himself to
be a traveller liable to a penalty. The witness of course
declines to answer, and in the absence of other testimony
the publican wins the case.
Mr. W. Stuart Jerdan, who has just returned
from a prospecting expedition to theMackinlay Ranges,
reports that he and his party only obtained 2 oz. of
gold. They suffered much from floods, want of pro-
visions, and loss of horses (caused by flies and mos-
quitos). However, Mr. Jerdan says he still has strong
faith in the country, and believes it only requires
systematic and sustained prospecting to develop into a
grand reefing field.
The other day Mr. William Good, a Fiji planter,
was fined £5 for overtasking his coolie labourers. The
magistrates’ decision is regarded as a ridiculous one,
and Mr. Good offers to wage £5O that he does the same
task himself in four hours. When the result of the
case became known the coolies made flags and banners,
and “processed” past the house of their employer,
deriding his wife, and shouting and gesticulating in a
most unseemly manner.
Hon. W. R. Rounsevell, Treasurer of S.A., who
is a wine merchant, has been charged with having in
his possession labels for spirits not having printed
thereon “bottled in South Australia.” It was stated
that Mr. Rounsevell had only lately purchased the
business, and had no knowledge of the omission on the
labels. The prosecution accepted the statement, but
declined to withdraw the information, and the de-
fendant was fined £5.
The chimney-sweep, Dixon, arraigned at Mel-
bourne for murder, and convicted of the manslaughter
of his paramour, formerly lived “ wild” in the Western
Australian bush for 18 months. Subsequently, he was
shot in the thigh by the bushranger Morgan, whom he
had met before. Being reproached by Dixon for his
wanton cruelty, the outlaw exgressed regret, said that
when he fired he did not recognise Dixon, and stopped
the hemorrhage from the wound.
A coronial enquiry is now proceeding in regard
to the death of a woman named Susan Nixon, who died
in the Sydney Benevolent Asylum on 29th March last,
after the performance of a particularly delicate opera-
tion, and concerning whose case a question was asked in
Parliament some time ago. The body has been ex-
humed by order of the coroner. The ordeal under
which the woman succumbed is known as the Cfflsarean
operation. C®sar was taken from his mother’s side,
hence the designation of the operation.
Some time ago, it will be remembered, Mr.
Loughlin M'Lean was killed by a train on the nawly-
constructed railway which connects the Spencer-street
and Hobson’s Bay statioas, Melbourne. A jury has now
awarded £5OOO compensation—the full amount claimed
—to the widow and children of deceased. For injuries
sustained in a railway accident by Mr. Thomas Bates, a
Glasgow commercial traveller, the Victorian Govern-
ment were last week also mulcted in £795.
J oseph Bliss, a life-sentenced Communist escapee
from New Caledonia, who was with two others being
brought back to Sydney en route for Noumea, jumped
overboard when about a mile from North Head on Fri-
day morning, and made for shore. The gendarm ein
charge fired four well-aimed revolver shots after him,
one of which cut away hair. A boat was lowered, and
the Frenchman, who struggled desperately and said
he would rather be drowned than taken, was re-captured
close to the rocks.
An account printed in a Wilcannia paper of a
most extraordinary flood that recently came down
Cooper’s Creek gives to the uninitiated an idea of the
danger of these inland waters. Through a country so
flat that there is absolutely no *• get-away," the flood
came roaring down “ all in a body, and “ taking a face
of from fifteen to forty miles wide.” An old Queensland
explorer, now in Melbourne, persists that the true
reason for the complete and mysterious disappearance
of Leichhardt and his party must be looked for in this
direction.
The barque Queen of Nations, from London to
Sydney, went ashore near Wollongong on Wednesday
morning. With one exception the crew were all saved,
but the captain and chief officer refused to leave the
vessel. Both the officers in question appear to have
acted in a very extraordinary manner when a boat’s
crew from Wollongong put off to bring all hands ashore,
the former having presented a loaded revolver at the
men when they were about to leave, and both having,
when the boat returned a second time, gone below and
refused to show themselves. The crew assert that the
weather was quite clear when the vessel grounded.
The Wide Bay News, in a leader, says that
the moral of the recent horrible murder by a Kanaka of
Mr. and Mrs. Jarvis is that the niggers should bo dis-
armed. The grand end and aim of the Kanaka laborer’s
submission to thirty-six moons of voluntary servitude
is the ultimate possession of a gun and the necessary
etceteras for putting his own or other people’s life in
jeopardy. “ Disarmament” has long been the strictly-
adhered-to u.otto of the Mackay planters, who rule
their dark serfs and the small number of white men
whom they permit to exist in their vicinity with a rod
of iron.
At Port Augusta, S.A., last week, Marritch, an
Austrian, whose wife eloped with a sailor named Louis
Thompson, a year ago, stabbed the latter in the back
while he was stooping over a road pile, inflicting a fear-
ful gash. Thompson ran away, and Marritch fired at
but missed him. Marritch then entered Thompson’s
tent and stabbed Mrs. Marritch in the left breast and
in the abdomen, and she died in a few hours after. The
avenging husband has since given himself up to the
police. He is suffering from a bullet-wound in the jaw,
caused, he says, by the accidental explosion of his
pistol. Such may be the results of an unhappy Mar-
ritch.
The other day, William Griffiths, who was con-
victed at Ballarat some time ago for malpractice in an
accouchement, in which both mother and child died,
sued his solicitors for £20,000 damages for alleged care-
lessness and neglect in the conduct of his case.
Plaintiff made some most astounding assertions. He
alleged that the majority of the witnesses for the
prosecution had wilfully committed perjury, that the
medical witnesses had maliciously given false evidence,
and that his barrister and solicitors had conspired
together to pervert the evidence in the case. The jury
returned a verdict for the defendants without retiring,
adding that plaintiff had not proved himself innocent,
and had been legally convicted.
During the trial, Lawson (London Daily Tele-
graph) v. Labouchere (Truth), it came out, among
other things, that 20 years ago the D.T. was bought by
three small capitalists for less than £5OOO. Their name
was Levi, but it has since been transmogrified into
Lawson. One of the trio of purchasers died the other
day, worth £3,000,000—a1l made out of the paper! The
daily advertisements of the D. T. were stated to be
worth £6OO, and the daily sales were over that amount
—the income altogether being something like £500,000.
The paper has established ink and paper factories for
the supply of its own needs, and out of the latter makes
£lO,OOO per annum over and above the saving on the
supply used by the Telegraph.


SINGER’S SEWING ■
THE
OINGER MANUFACTUE
Have opened a Dep
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DAI
HARBOUR STB]
SINGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sen
Singers sewing
BEST TERMS TO WHOLI
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for address of net
SINGER’S, THE BEST I
Have received 160 First P
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, fort
INGER’S, BEST FOR
SINGER'S MEDIUM MAGI
8
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. v,
SINGER’S THE BEST ]
See the New No. 4 Mi
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
SINGER’S, THE BEST FOR
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-
-8 INGER’S SEWING
HAND OB TREAE
SINGER’S. The BEST. The
MACHINE—Light to Work,
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6c
SINGER’S, THE
LEARN. New Improvements
SINGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
SINGER’S, THE BEST A]
Sew finest muslins and he
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
SINGER’S THE BEST and M
Will last a lifetime in co
SINGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TP
SINGER MANUFACTURE
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Har
RINGER’S SEWINf
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymt
have keen appointed agents '
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth 1
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cai
SINGER’S SEWING M.
S
INGEE’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
Remember, there is <
GER MACHINE. See th
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S MACHINES.—I
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
INGER’S MACHINES.—£
Cast iron imitations. Onl;
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACH
ments with the Singer (
s
INGEE’S SEWING MAt
cent, discount for cash, or on
s
YDNEY.—From TURNEI
GEORGE STREET, opposit
8
.INGER’S SEWING MACH]
but 160 FIRST PR]
LUXURIES WITHIN THE BEACH OP ATT..
When yon ask a friend to visit yon the first impression he receives when he steps npon yonr threshold
s one of comfort, abundance, and even luxury. But the remarkably small cost at which this
mpression is produced is almost incredible. The first thing he does is to brush his feet npon a
FIBRE MAT for which you paid 2s. Passing on, the next thing he treads upon is a SINOLEUM at
oS, 3d. per square yard, or a FLOORCLOTH which only costs 2s. per square yard. He hangs
big HAT (a STIFF FELT it may be at 4s. lid., or a SILK HAT at Bs. 6d.) on the hat-stand, and
I Biting his 7s. 6d. SILK UMBRELLA on one side, he makes his way across a SHEEPSKIN MAT
*1 ricO ItL 3d.) into the Drawing Eocm. Here a rich BRUSSELS CAEPET meets his gaze, purchased
ke all the foregoing, at
ANTHJONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
The cost of this was 2s. Bd, per yard, and there is also a HEAETHEUG to match. The et coeteras of
auch a room are amply supplied from the same source. There are FIEE-SCREENS, FENDER-
STOOLS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, and CUSHIONS beautifully worked; and upon enquiry you find
that the CANVAS and WOOL came from
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
whose prices are below those of the Wholesale Houses.
As the morning is the time he arrives, the hostess (in a dress of GEOS GRAIN, HOMESPUN
or FRENCH CASHMERE, procured at the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
and made of the very newest shade of colour) leads him into the Library. Here the CARPET is of
TAPESTRY, at Is. lid. per yard, and his eyes alight npon the rich looking EBP CURTAINS, which
cost about half what they would anywhere else, surmounted by a beautiful pair of CORNICE POLES
costing only ss. 9d. each, with BRACKETS to match at a small extra cost. The walls are hung with
tastefully executed OLEOGRAPHS and ENGRAVINGS, gladdening the eye; and when he learns
the trifling expenditure at which these additions are made he marvels how it can be done. Leaving
this apartment, he walks across a CHINA MATTING 36 inches wide, at 13d. per yard, into the
Dining Room, where the dazzling magnificence, combined with the chaste designs of the ladies’
attire (which latter has now ramified into a thousand novelties—relics of the styles of various historic
times) well nigh eclipse the more sombre requisites of every day life, such as TABLE NAPKINS
at 4s. per dozen; TABLE DAMASK for extension at Is. 4d. per yard, or CLOTHS to fit any
ordinary sized table, at prices varying from ss. 6d. to 225. 6d. While in the room he notices the
Antimacassars, all hand made, at from Is. each ; and the Curtains some of which coat only 3s. 3d.
per pair, but the Applique are 15s. On retiring to rest he finds that
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
supplied the SHEETS, the BLANKETS, the QUILT (one of M‘Lintock’s best EIDER DOWN o r
SILK DOWN—delightfully soft, light, and warm), the Crockery upon the wash-stand, and even the
Fancy Soap, of which they have a pleasing variety. In fact, it is hard to say what they did not
supply. The most exorbitant prices are sometimes paid for BLANKETS, and it is simply because
the public are mislead as to their real market value. Now, at this well-known drapery establishment,
■ which, its proprietors are told, has only two rivals in the whole world, you can get a PAIR of
BLANKETS for 3s. lid. —a good warm pair. In a word, you can get anything you require, at a price
and of a quality that cannot fail to satisfy you, at
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
who have NO CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER HOUSE OF THE NAME.
PRIZE “IVANHOE” WINES.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
G. H. STEPHEN & CO., 1
Wine Growers and Merchants, >
13 Bridge Street. J
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&c., &c.
FRUITY WINES
5/6
PER GALLON.
JgNJOY LIFE,
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest to enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most bitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsia and Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PARALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask you
in good faith that you try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s 6d.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
rj| HOM A S WEBB & SONS,
BOND-STREET,
Beg to inform their customers that they have JUST
OPENED a LARGE CONSIGNMENT of
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, and
TEA SETS.
Also,
FANCY CHINA
AND
GLASSWAEE.
Inspection invited.
T E Y
H. HOOKINGS & CO.’S
PURE
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
BAZAAE,
FURNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
237. 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STREET.
Established a.d. 1840.
A. MOORE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing’, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, &c., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAE at a cheaper
rate than at anv other house in the olonies.
Wholesale’bnyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manutactured to order.
Experienced packers on the’premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND CO..
Manufacturers and Importers,
rjiHE
«
BEST and LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
In the COLONY,
O
<1
S
ij
>O2
gw
W rn
FASHIONABLE and First-class GARMENTS
to order at
J. TURNER ROBINSON and CO.’S
Market Cloth Hall,
482 (LATE 484) GEO E GE-SEEEE T,
Opposite the Fruit Mnrkets.
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES.
TROUSERS TO ORDER, from Bs. 6d.
TROUSERS and VEST. 10s.
SUITS TO MEASURE, 375. 6d.
oo
£►
mP
aU GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK,
and PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 25th May, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASfc-S.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from thia
date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No., 908; Edward O. Woolford; Portion No., 21 m.l. ;
County of Dudley, parish of Burragong; 20 acres;
Application No., Bulladelah 3 ar.
No., 924; Charles Cayanagh; Portion No., 22 m.l. ;
County of Dudley, parish of Willawarrin; 20 acres;
Application No., Bulladelah 6 m.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A petition is in course of signature to have the
Auckland Free Library opened on Sundays The
population of Heberton, Wild Eiver, N.Q., is rapidly
increasing. The field promises shortly to become one
of the most important tin-producing districts in the
world. Sums varying from £lOO to £3OO have been paid
for shares in the tin lodes. However, Government is
doing nothing for the place The Sir Joseph Banks
hotel and grounds. Botany, have been sold for £17,000.
Mr. Armstrong, of Hexham, the well-known breeder
of long-woolled sheep is trying the experiment of shear-
ing twice annually. Other owners are following his ex-
ample George Coppin has the gout again The
Hat Standard has been sold by Mr. Charles Jones to
Mr. Eichard Chambers Mr. Dacomb formerly mana-
ger for the Messrs. Henty, at Portland, Vic., is
dead For the fortnight ended 17th May the
Melbourne Ladies’ Benevolent Society relieved
569 families, numbering 1455 individuals The
Melbourne Argus telegram from N.Z. announcing
the wreck of the Tararua cost £l5O A Licensed
Victuallers Association has been formed at Mary-
borough, Q Mr. H. W. Eisien has got splendid
prospects from the Old Hector reef, between Eock-
hampton and the Crocodile, and has re-named it the
Cousin Jack Henry Arnold, cook of the schooner
Superior, had his right hand blown off at the wrist
while fishing with dynamite at Bockhampton In
several parts of the Bathurst district the Chinese are
planting tobacco with great success The other day
at Dubbo a publican and a bookmaker played poker in
an hotel. The “ book’s” funds ran out, and he
requested a sight for his money, whereupon, it is
alleged, the publican stunned him with a lemonade
bottle, and afterwards beat him with a big stick.
Poker, indeed At Oamaru, N.Z., the other day, a
Chinaman,^while in the witness-box, proceeded to smoke
his pipe in the most unembarrassed manner until
ordered to put it out An Akaroa (N.Z.) man in a
good position has eloped with the wife of a neighboring
hotelkeeper. Both the runaways, who are now in
Sydney, have left young families behind them, the
youngest in each case being but a few months old
The merchants, Ac., of Bockhampton have presented an
address of condolence to the veteran Capt. Cottier in
connection with the recent mishap to the s.s. Lady
Bowen A letter from Mackay states that two large
nuggets, one weighing 116 oz. and the other 640 z. have
been found at Nebo Mr. Logo, a Mackay grazier, has
been summoned for writing a libellous letter to the
Free Press. The damages are claimed at £3O Mr.
Walter Allen, an old resident of Darlington, has been
shot dead by the explosion of a gun which he was
handling. The top of his head was blown off A
weekly paper called the Whip has been started at Mel-
bourne, in the cabmen’s and anti-tramway interest
A thick fldor of plumbago has been gone through at a
depth of 134 feet in No. 3 North Phoenix, Gympie...A
patient Gympie man, who has kept count, says that in
two years the Gtmpie Miner has devoted 23,513 lines
of its space to abusing the member for Gympie The
Burrangonq Chronicle understands that the Italian
immigrants brought to that district are giving the
greatest satisfaction to their employers Tintinchilla
Station, Warrego district, area 1550 square miles, with
9000 cattle, has been sold by Mr. E. J. Stevens to Cud-
more, Swan and Co., for £60,000 A trial crushing of
5J tons of stone from the Burdett-Contts claim.
Crocodile, Bockhampton, went 2oz. of fine gold to the
ton Eobert Cummins, who for twenty years occupied
a high position in the Victorian detective force, dropped
dead in the street at Collingwood the other day.
Drink dragged him down, and for some time prior to
his death he was a bone and bottle gatherer At
Dubbo, a lad named Charles Thompson, while playing
at “ blind man’s buff,” ran into a window, breaking the
glass and severing his jugular vein. He was at once
seen by Dr. Tennent, who stopped the hemorrhage
The Wide Bat (Q.) News hears that Mr. John Hurley
has succeeded in forming a syndicate to carry out the
Burrum scheme A man named Cameron was thrown
from his horse while going home from Grafton regatta.
He died immediately afterwards. He was a widower,
and leaves five children Hardly a day passes but
a body is found in the Brisbane river There is to be
further litigation in connection with the celebrated Day
Dawn claim, Charters Towers Thay went very near
telescoping two trains near Toowong the other day—a
special and an ordinary passenger train. Only a few
Sards separated them when they pulled up Crowds
ave inspected the splendid specimens fro™ the No. 1
North Phoenix, Never Mind, and Bussell Mines, ex-
hibited at the Queensland National Bank, Gympie
A 40oz. nugget has been found at Peak Downs After
a sojourn of over 20 years in George-street, the Bris-
bane Courier shortly removes to Queen-street, a long
lease of central premises in which has been secured
There were, at latest dates, according to Davis, a cor-
respondent of the Northern Miner, 52 persons on
Woolgar, some of whom were dollying for tucker,
pending the arrival of machinery, which is a remote
chance. Davis prospected two reefs, which went 2oz.
He says no poor man should go to Woolgar When
Eohan, condemned for the murder of Shea at Talca,
Vic., was told that the day of his execution had been
fixed for the 6th inst., he, with the same stolid indiffer-
ence which has all along characterised him, simply
said ‘‘All right, sir.” He is only 24 The Port Doug-
las people have subscribed liberally for the purpose of
enabling Mr. Christy Palmerston to form a party to
prospect the Daintree Eiver for gold At Oamaru,
N.Z., some larrikins who had been turned out of a
Wesleyan soiree, amused themselves by burning
“ cayenned ’’ wadding. The guests were driven out of
the hall, and one asthmatic old lady nearly suffocated.
The blacks are very troublesome on the Endeavour
just now The firm of Clifton and Aplin Bros.,
Townsville, has been changed to Aplin, Brown, and Co.
The Hodgkinson folks having failed to find a doctor
for their hospital, have engaged a chemist to dose the
patients at £3 per week Alfred Newnham, for setting
fire to the Temora Herald office, has been sentenced
to three years’ hard labour A new horse disease,
resembling St. Vitus’ dance in human beings, is reported
from Gippsland......Dick Mann, master of the ketch
Spindrift, and Mary Valkelar, a female passenger, were
drowned off the South Australian coast last week. The
girl was walking on the rail, and Mann larking with
her, when she over-balanced, dragging the captain with
her Mrs. Cardy, for 50 years a resident of Cobbitty,
died the other day, aged 81. She leaves 100 grand and
great grand children. She died while the husband of
one of her grand daughters was being buried at Camden.
Doyle, late council-clerk of Charters Towers, who
was prosecuted several times for embezzlement
and acquitted, has issued a writ against the Towers
Corporation for £5OOO for defamation of character
In the Cooktown Herald appears an advertisement for
teams to carry 120 tons tin ore from the Tate to Port
Douglas—distance 130 miles Hundreds are leaving
Nebo Two Gympie miners have opened a reef on
Curtis Island, and say that with machinery the stone
will pay A shock of earthquake has been felt at
Kapuuda, S.A A marble bust of the Queen, by
Marshall Wood, has been presented to the Adelaide Art
Gallery by Mr. J. F. Cudmore Two Chinamen,
keeper of a house in Gonlburn-street, at which pakapu
was played, have been committed for trial It is said
that a newspaper proprietary on a large scale will
shortly be established at Grafton, to run an evening
paper. A lively time for the venture! The Barcelona,
the first of the Hamburg line of steamers, has arrived
at Adelaide Thereare 4000 loads of dirt to be washed
at Tynan’s p.c., Temora. For 200 loads the average has
been 12dwts As there is little chance of an ordinary
bridge being erected over the Darling at Wilcannia, a
local paper suggests a pontoon bridge £lOO reward
is offered for the conviction of the murderer or
murderers of Thomas Smith, found dead in his hut at
Inverell on the 11th May At Melbourne, a jury dis-
agreed, and one of them, when the panel was called
upon, did not appear. He subsequently said he had got
drunk. Judge Stephen fined him £l5 The latest
from Mount Browne is that the scarcity of provisions
is driving away numbers of diggers. At Easter Monday
rush there are 200, and at Four-Mile 400 men, most of
whom, a reliable correspondent informs the Wilcannia
Times, are making large wages.
Messrs. H. Levy and Co. have opened the
Central Furnishing Arcade at 29, 31, and 33 Pitt-street.
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
the month Mav, 1881:—Week days, 6016; Sundays,
3276. Total, 9292.
The Sacred Choral Association is announced to
give a concert at the Masonic Hall next Monday night.
The best vocal talent procurable has been secured for
the occasion.


gINGER’S
gEWING
AC HINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
jyj"A.CHIN£S
UNPARALLED DEMAND
MORE POPULAR
THAN EVER!
OVER 500,000 were SOLD in the
YEAR 1880, being at the rate of
1600 for every Working Day,
and three-fourths of all the Sew-
ing Machines sold throughout
the World.
SINGER’S
THIS IMMENSE SALE is the
SEWING RESULT of the World-Wide
REPUTATION OBTAINED by
jy£ACHINES THESE MACHINES.
D
EPOT IN SYDNEY.
NO. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS FREE 1
fIIHE WONDERFUL WEETHEIM
X SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
vary fine double seams or fells ; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OF
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OF CHARGE. Price bsts and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY, George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply vou with a WERTHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT. WITHOUT
INTEREST.
fjl H
E AUSTRALIAN
“HOME" SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
. WLP S
*
*
r/v
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
20,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3. —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian " Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE. SYDNEY.
«P LOOK FOR THE NAME !!!
—-vA Chronometer. Watch Makers
r°""A, and Opticians. ■ AAf
\i i/
Hunter Srfi£ £r
£ydNev.a<
’ Cf * NSW
- "Illustrated Catalogues post free on Application.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMABKET.
gJINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gJINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2a 6d per week.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT.
T
HE LIGHT EUNNING STANDAED.
2a 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON'S, HAYMARKET.
S
INGBE’S SEWING MACHINES.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON'S DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUAETEE CASKS,
AND CASE.
m
AGENT—GEOEGE LLOYD,
BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
AEECOMMENDATION IN YBESIFICA-
TION. ,
SOW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation.
This is not vain expatiation;
For ’tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication
In callous state or suppuration.
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation.
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
'I simply say in confirmation
Ire for
Of the foregoing lucubration —
Just use your powers of observation
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation,
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination,
-■Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation
Then —friends of suffering creation —
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation.
Called “ Farmer’s Friend," —ugh, botheration 1
It’s nothing like BOW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station.
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
And sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
N
EW EEFLECTING LAMPS FOE GAS OE
KEROSENE.
&
*
A
v l/\\
FOR LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, Ac.
BAEWELL AND PISHEE’S DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFOED, 65 MAEKET STEEET.
T
ENGLISH TOUEISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPEEIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
la in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Westem
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
T
HEA T R E
Acting Manager .
E O T A L.
... Mr. Sam. Lazar.
... Mr. G. L. Goodman.
;last nights, last nights
—• ->»**? of the
PRESENT DRAMATIC SEASON.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY EYGS., JUNE 2 and 3,
last nights of
THE UPPER CRUST.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 4,
Grand Revival of
Boacicanlt’s popular Irish Sensational Drama,
THE COLLEEN BAWN.
POPULAR PRICES—
Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 3s; Family Circle, 2s; Pit,
Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, George-street, where
seats can be secured for the dress circle, and stall tickets
obtained.
Doors open at 7.30, overture at 8 o’clock.
ARTHUR GARNER. Manager.
G
AIE T Y
THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bavless.
MONTAQUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY.
Director Mr. Charles Turner.
THIS EVENING,
FAUST.
FAUST.
Conductor
Mr. LEON CARON.
In active preparation,
THE ROSE UP CASTILLE.
Box Office and Flan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s,
325 George-street.
Prices of Admission; Private Boxes, £2 2e.; Orchestra
Chairs, 5a.; Stalls, 35.; Balcony, 25.; Pit, Is.
Doors open at 7.15; commence at 8. Carriages may
be ordered for 10.30.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
OPERA
HOUSE.
gYDNEY
SATURDAY. JUNE 4th,
and every evening till further notice,
M’LEAN’S DRAMATIC TROUBADOURS.
STRUCK! OIL I STRUCK OIL I
Dress Circle and Orchestra Chairs 3s.'
Stalls, 25.; Pit, Is.
King-street
entrance.
The sacred choral association
and a
GRAND ORCHESTRA,
including
HERE M. WILCEK, Solo C’ellist,
and other
MEMBERS of the AUSTRIAN BAND,
will render
MENDELSSOHN’S SUBLIME ORATORIO,
“ ELIJAH 1 ”
at the
MASONIC HALL,
on
MONDAY EVENING NEXT. June 6th.
Principal parts to be supported by distinguished artists.
Accompanists, Mr. Hector R. Maclean, T.C.L., and
Mr. Albert Fisher.
CONDUCTOR : MR. MONTAGUE YOUNGER.
Tickets : Reserved Chairs, ss; Balcony, 3s.
ONLY A LIMITED NUMBER
now on sale at the Music Warehouses, and at Mr. W.
BULLARD’S.
Doors open at 7. Oratorio at 7 - 30.
Carriages at 10.
H
ERCULES AMATEUR DRAMATIC CLUB.
STAGE MANAGER ... J. H. EAINFORD, Esq.
At a meeting held at the Cambridge Club Hotel on
Monday evening, the 30th May, it was unanimously
resolved that the above Club be re-formed.
A GENERAL MEETING
will be held at the
COMMITTEE ROOMS.
THE CAMBRIDGE CLUB HOTEL,’
on
THIS THURSDAY EVENING, 2nd JUNE,
at 7.30 p.m., sharp.
Gentlemen (acting or honary members) desirous of
joining will attend, or address the undersigned,
I. REGINALD COHEN, Hon. Secretary.
Cambridge Club Hotel, Oxford-street.
[a card.]
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE has much pleasure
in announcing to her numerous Friends and the
public of Sydney that her
“BENEFIT”
is fixed to take place on
FRIDAY NEXT, JUNE 10th,
(Last Night hut One of the Season),
when she hopes they will accord her the same generous
patronage as heretofore.
MONTAGUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY,
Gaiety Theatre.
Ist June, 188 L
N
EW THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
Proprietors, Messrs. THYNNE and HICKIE.
Open to treat with STARS and ARTISTES of
acknowledged ability in every line of business. Seating
accommodation—l4oo.
Professional Addresses
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
Mr. m. s a l a m o n.
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
MR. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ON TOUR:
St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, March 27th till end of
April.
Tasmania, New Zealand to follow. |
G
REAT JEWELLERY SALE.
WATCHES, CLOCKS, AND JEWELLERY
At LESS than COST PRICE,
Owing to intended Extensive Alterations.
A. J. HUFTON,
636 George-street South.
•APER HANGINGS.
PAPERHANGINGS.
G. F. MURPHY.
►LATE GLASS.
PLATE GLASS.
G. F. MURPHY,
T
O BUILDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND
OTHERS.
Please send in SASHES for GLAZING early next
week.
N.B. —Shop Fronts Glazed with best British Plate
Glass on the shortest notice.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869, George-street South.
►AINTS, OILS, COLOURS, VARNISHES,
BRUSH WARE, &c. G. F. MURPHY,
B
EGENT HOUSE,
869, GEORGE-ST., RAILWAY BRIDGE.
" GEORGE F. MURPHY
(sole surviving partner of the late firm of J. Murphy
and Son),
having disposed of his interest in that business, has
OPENED in COMMODIOUS
and
CENTRALLY SITUATED PREMISES,
as above, with an entirely
NEW AND CAREFULLY SELECTED STOCK
of
Paperhangings Oils
Plate Colours
Sheet Brush ware
and Varnishes
Ornamental Glass Cement
White Lead Plaster
And all other requirements of the trade.
These GOODS having been purchased for CASH in
the best markets, G.F.M. is enabled to offer special
inducements to those who may favour him with their
orders.
His connection with the oldest-established Oil and
Colour Business in the Colonies, extending over a
period of twenty-eight years, together with his well-
known punctuality and attention to the interests of his
customers, will, he trusts, secure for him a fair share
of public patronage.
HOUSES furnished at the Central Furnishing
Arcade, on Time Payments. 29, 31, and 33 Park-
street.
WE repectfnlly invite the public to visit our
Show Rooms, Central Furnishing Arcade, 29,
31, and 33 Park-street.
WE Furnish Houses from .£lO to .£lOOO.
Central Furnishing Arcade, No. 29, 31, and 33
Park-street. H. LEVY and CO.
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, New
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
This establishment is now open, replete with every
requisite for household furnishing, together with a
large and extensive department solely for crockery and
glassware. H. LEVI and CO.
H,
LEVY and Co. beg to inform the general
public that they have now completed their large
FURNITURE ESTABLISHMENT,
Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch* and best
price given for old metal.
R. LARK!
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
N.
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES-
iB George-street West (late Farramatta-screet).
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spieit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
N
E.
PISCADO-BUENO-Y-BARATO.
The New South Wales Fish Company (Limited) beg
to intimate that having now overcome all difficulties
as to cold storage, they are able to keep a large and
varied stock of FRESH FISHES ready for sale at a
moment’s notice.
CHOICE PISH, 6d per ft.
MIXED PISH, 4d per ft.
(all ready cleaned for the cook)
SMOKED FISH. 8d per ft.
and
ROES of delicious flavour, lOd per ft.
They also keep a large stock of live and dead
POULTRY, at lowest prices.
TERMS. CASH. TERMS, CASH.
No delivery beyond the city.
Delivery made to carriers before 6 p.m.
A GRAND DISPLAY ON FRIDAY MORNING.
ONDON
MORTGAGE, LOAN,
DISCOUNT BANK,
AND
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James’
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms —UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OF SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds. Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui-
ties, Personal effects, &c.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Acceptances, &c., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
"Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential,
FORMS GRATlS—Address, THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.


Miscellane
T3RISCOE, DRYS]
397 George S
76, 78, 145, 147 To
33 Pitt Sti
IRONMONGERS, IRONM
IMPORTS
Invite attention to their este
which besides being the largest
varied; and comprises all the la
Engines Engineers' Materia
Agricultural Implements, 1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material,
Buggy-bodies, Lai
Founders’ Material, Pig Ire
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chi
Brass Foundry, Locks,
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Boiled
And
GENERAL IRON!
W
i.ND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E B B L E
416 GEOEQE S'
.MERIC AN MACH
H. P. GREGORY
No. 11. PITT-SI
Importers of all Des
M A C H I
Have for Sa
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Specif
Machinery—Sydney Exhibil
Blake’s Patent Special Steam P
Subber and Leather Belting, Ea
tucks packing round and sqi
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—l
Eock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery C
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac
Send for Circulars i
118
KING STREET !
Miscellane^n
LIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTI
EASTERN AND CO
MERCHANT!
Receive regular consignmen
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualiti
Do. Indian Prize Me
CHUTNIES—Indian Pri
PRESERVES—Indian I
COFEEE—Plantation N
Do. „ Pi
Do. „ N
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and 1
SAGO
PEPPER—White and R]
OFFIC S :—79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
JOHN D
IMPORTED OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswi
Gas fittings. Globes, Electric 1
Butchers’ Brine Pi
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
pittstrSii
BEAUTIFUL . kT
Ditto
OR 'L
ALLWOOL
TWEED
TO
fed
II
389 C
OUE Sto
loidu
have
OUE Hi
from
POW
•I
IF requc
whie
&
ticuli
01
are the i
awar
AS show
chin(
BOU
comi
MAh
WE havt
very
WEITE
The le
Blacket and
119 BATHUEST STREET, SI
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS
Sole Agents fob Messes. Tangye Bec
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND lEEIGATLI
Engines and Boilers of all e
Jack Ceabs, Ceanes, Bellows, F
IN STOCK.
J EYES’ PERFECT PURI
Non-poisonous ! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest A
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash i:
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes" Perfect Purifier is splendid for hot
by all classes of Society. From Hew Geo. Woolnough,
tor my throat I could not desire anything more effect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, i
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Nem
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearin
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney :—My child had sore eyes for I
one week.— —From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laureuo
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fn
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pit
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, £
Jeyes’ Sanitarv Com ound Company (Limited), London. Agem
Gooch a. n d Roberts,
(From London an late with J. Campbell,)
HAIEDEESSEES AND WIGMAKEES,
Importers and Manufacturers of Human Hair.
21 HUNTEE STEEET,
BETWEEN GEOEGE AND PITT STEEETS,
SYDNEY.
A CARD.
STANICH, the eminent OCULIST and
AUEIST, is now on a professional visit to
Queensland. Tor further Particulars vide
Queensland papers.
