

TH E BULLETIN
Vol. 5. —No. 53.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 29, 1881.
Price—3d.
§ulletitL
SATURDAY. JANUARY 29, 1881,
Our Land Legislation.
Whispers being abroad that the growing
agitation as to land tenure is about to have its
effect in more distinct legislation, it will be
interesting to some of our readers to hear the
question from a workman’s, instead of a capi-
talist’s view, although in putting svch a view
forward it may be necessary to draw conclusions
contrary to general theory, contrasting the
benefits with the disadvantages of the working
classes in the prosecution of such pursuits as lead
to the realization of the interest which squatting
capitalists naturally and reasonably expect from
their investments. Emigration has for years past
been, and for years to come will be, one of the
great Governmental questions of the colonies.
With thousands of acres of what may well be
called unused land at disposal, the problem of
their appropriation to the best use comes as a
natural sequence. Many politicians have _ a
Utopian view of all the vast areas of the interior
country being laid out in model farms, which shall
return a regular revenue in annual rents, or in
interest upon payments reserved. Consequently,
a periodical cry arises to the effect that we should
employ only our resident mechanics and artisans
for such works as they are educated to prosecute,
but import labor from the Old World to farm and
till our lands. Let any one go forth and see the
lands, not crowned with the natural growth and
wealth of herbage under the influence of an
unusually good season, not under the forced
vegetation of an exceptional spring, but parched
and burnt out from the fierce rays of the semi-
tropical sun of an ordinary summer, destitute of
the power to bring forth even the hardiest of its
natural grasses for want of moisture. Let any
one go forth and see the country under such
circumstances, and say whether the most skilled
labor, whether the very greatest of experience,
whether anything but the most stolid endurance,
and that god of all earthly powers —Capital—can
do aught but fail in agriculture in any but the
most favored spots of the interior of Australia.
Is it possible for any but a capitalist to succeed in
farming when the scene of his labors is hundreds
of miles from any market, where, even if he wills
to consume the very grain he grows himself, it
becomes a loss, since he can get its produce
cheaper than he can mill the substance and pay
its carriage ? Let any one of the many hundreds
advocating the system of importing farm labor for
this purpose look at the natural face of the
interior of the country of the colonies generally,
mark its few watercourses and the certain,
though irregular visitations of drought, and
say whether such a country is one to which
farming laborers should be invited to sink their
labor or their lives in its manipulation.
The working of the lands of this fair country must
for a time rest with those who are born or enured
to its exigencies. Ingenuity, perseverauce, endur-
ance, and, above all, bushcraft, are indispensable
attributes to such as ever hope to make even a
sustenance from bush farming, much more to those
who seek to gather wealth from its resources ;
and, consequently, those English farmers who
come to pursue their avocation in Australia, how-
ever skilful in the working of home lands, must
here pass through the initiatory process of a fresh
agricultural education, being for the first few years
the veriest new-chums. Of course it may be said
that this can only apply to those who project
taking to themselves the untilled and raw land.
In many parts of this colony we find farms which
might already be mistaken for English homesteads.
In many of the mountainous districts, we find a
climate similar to that of the old country, pro-
ducing English fruits and grasses; and here we
find English farmers, —but if we seek from them
their early history, we find that these do not
belong to the class who emigrate under the
present system. For so long as we have assisted
emigration by deposit and nomination, so long
shall we have a class of people sent to us at our
expense, either to join friends or relations from
whom they have been separated by adverse cir-
cumstances, or those who, unsettled in their home
lives, are little likely to make good domesticated
colonists. If immigration can bring to us men
with even small capital, who will invest it in
profitable speculations, then let us by all means
have them ; but it is worse than useless to bring
workmen who must be temporarily out of place,
from inexperience of colonial habits, to a labour
market already overstocked and impecunious.
I ears hence, when artificial means are brought to
°® ar —when irrigation is a difficulty overcome —
when cheap transit is a matter properly in hand—
the broad extent and wealth of Australia will be
m the hands of the people; but, until then, the
wresting of wealth from its securely-kept treasuries
by farming of the greater part of Australian lands
is a secret only to be disclosed by the key of capital.
Is such a country—and let anyone who speaks from
practical experience say whether this is not a true
picture—one to which agricultural labourers should
be asked to come ? Are they men in any way fitted
to undergo the necessities and hardships of open-
ing bush lands? If any man, used only to town
life, be placed in the bush to find his way for even
one day’s journey, will all his business skill, his
tact or policy, aid him one whit in arriving at his
destination? So with British farmers, however
well they may be able to milk the land to its last
drop of nourishment —however they may use it,
and yet, by judicious alternation of crops or other
management, renew it to its pristine strength—
here, before such knowledge becomes available,
they must undergo that period of tuition which the
youngest jackeroo must serve ere one of them, ex-
cept perhaps by an exceptional slice of luck, may
earn more than his salt by farming pure and simple.
What then, in the face of such difficulties of
drought and flood as any five years’ bush resident
has seen—what then is the best purpose to which
the lands may be devoted ? There are immense
tracts of country throughout the interior of Aus-
tralia which seem as if specially framed by nature
for pastoral purposes. We journey from the
Lower Macquarie to the Warrego, even to the
Bulla and Cooper’s Creek itself, and with the ex-
ception of odd hummocks, the biggest of which is
Mount Oxley, near Bourke, we travel over country
as level as a billiard table, and for the most part
as salt as brine. What use has such land, as yet,
to the agriculturist ? What market is there for
his produce ? What certainty for his crops ? And
yet to the grazier are there not mints of money
annually derived from the stock that it supports ?
Are these not interests to be protected and divided
by the Legislature ? Are they not so separate as
to claim special and distinct consideration ? Yet
by that great mystery, the Lands Act, they are so
regarded that the Hon is always liable to the
gnawings of the mouse: the squatter is ever chary
of a selector’s visit. It must be patent to the
most superficial observer that it is better for the
State that ten acres of suitable land should be in
the hands of an agriculturist, if capable of
profitable use, than that one should remain in the
hands of the grazier; but surely where that
one acre pays a fair income to its tenant it would
be better that he were sure of his tenancy and
paid to the State a fair rental rather than the
miserable annual farthing that the Government
derives at present. Could not agricultural areas
be limited to the centres of the country popula-
tion ? If a district is wealthy enough to support
a township of a thousand inhabitants, or even less,
then the mere fact of the residence of those in-
habitants creates a market, and the alienation of
the surrounding lands into the hands of small
holders can only be productive of still greater
benefit to the township, while as the town extends
the surrounding lands become more valuable and
extend the market still further. Is not a
general principle of this nature a far more sound
and equitable basis upon which to ground the
alienation of the public lands than that those
men who as Crown lessees have paid for a number
of years their annual rents, have sunk their capi-
tal in improvement of their leasehold lands (of
which eventually, though indirectly, the Crown
reaps the benefit) should in the end be deprived of
all the profits of their long years of labor and
their capital to benefit at the best some specula-
tive farmer, or more often some gentleman who,
with twenty pounds at his command, thinks to
treble it by imposition on the Crown and its
lessee. A story was current of one family who
were so used to the moving consequent on this
“buying out” speculation, that even their fowls
at a given whistle would turn over on their backs
and put up their legs to be tied. These are some
of the abuses that have sprung into existence
through unwise legislation, but of far greater
importance is the effect as yet of late birth, and
but lightly felt, but which will be an old
man of the sea to Australia in futurity.
As a natural sequence to the uncertainty of tenure
given to the Crown lessees comes the gradual ten-
dency that has now become only too prevalent
among the squatting classes. Formerly they were
regarded as semi-princes—men who, though land-
lords to a vast extent, yet held their interests as
co-extensive with those of the labouring section
of the community. Now this feeling is generally
dead, and the old enmity between capital and
labour causes the same malignancy between the
classes as is observable amongst the most strin-
gent supporters of classdom in Irish legislation of
the present day. In a community so widely dis-
persed as is that of the bush, there can hardly be
a greater curse than this same diversity of opinion
and interest. Where one set or faction is at the
mercy of another —nay, more: where man is
almost dependent on his fellow man for subsis-
tence —there can be no greater drawback to the
general welfare than that the servant should be
opposed to the master—employed against em-
ployer. Unanimity of spirit and of interest is the
only safeguard that an employer has in the pro-
secution of his industries, which in its turn con-
tribute toward the maintenance of the working
population. The ill-feeling rife between selector
and squatter has already been of great detriment
to the progress of the country; and it is a feel-
ing that cannot be alleviated, since, under present
legislation, the selector cannot be other-wise that
a legal, though inequitable, aggressor, upon the
rights of the grazier. A very tangible evil of this
ill-advised administration is that the squatter,
feeling that his rights are no longer protected by the
Government, uses those very means afforded to
the selector to secure his land with or without the
sanction of the law. Since the birth of the Act,
the general study has been its evasion. So class
has been pitted against class, each trying to
remedy its rights by committing greater wrongs.
It may be said that this does not affect the actual
labourer, and yet in reality he feels its ill effects as
well as his employer. Selectors, when they
live from hand to mouth, make the worst task-
masters and the poorest payers ; while amongst
the squatters the old system of liberality has dis-
appeared, making room for the now universal
principle of “ grab-all,” which takes its place.
The Hon. Sir John Hay, E.C.M.G.
If the history of the old Legislative Council
should ever be impartially written, it will be
found that there are amongst its members men of
great ability and true refinement of manners. It
is impossible to go back in imagination to the
constellation of “ bright particular stars,” amongst
which William Charles Wentworth, Robert Lowe,
Dr. Bland, Deas-Thomson, Dr. Lang, and many
other historical individuals shone conspicuously,
without feeling impressed with their high character
as the ruling spirit of a legislative body. The
inauguration of Responsible Government was
followed by the return of men to Parliament who,
if more thoroughly representative of the opinions
and aspirations of the colony, belonged to a less
cultured class than their predecessors in the first
elective Council. The new men—the outcome of
the first general election under the Electoral
Reform Act —soon showed, with a few significant
exceptions, that they confounded the meaning and
the mischief of churlishness and vulgarity, and
took them to signify bravado and independence
instead of their real signification. The most
radical democrats in the colony would not like to
see the House of Assembly degenerate into a
menagerie, and for some years it had never been
disgraced by ignominious scenes. While gentlemen
constituted the majority of the “ collective
wisdom,” a high tone characterised the social
intercourse of honorable members, and pervaded
their deliberations. Any country might be proud
of such men—taking them all in all—as Donaldson,
Parker, Cowper, Murray, Martin, Macleay, Lang,
Dailey, William Macarthur, and the veteran
knights, Robertson and Parkes, who have
survived so many of their contemporaries, out-
lived their own mutual hatreds, and are now
devoted heart and soul, as sworn Ministexial
brothers, to the service of the country and their
own interests. Of all the men who have figured
conspicuously on the floor of the Legislative
Chambers, not one has ever emerged from the
ordeal with a brighter reputation than Sir John
Hay, now President of the Legislative Council,
whose finely-cut facial lineaments will be easily
recognised in our issue of to-day. Though firm
as a rock whenever a matter of principle was
evolved in debate, and canny as a good Scotsman
should be when prudence was required to
regulate party tactics, he never deliberately, in
word or deed, offended any of his opponents.
Always cheerful, urbane, mindful of the feelings
of others, and unsophisticated in the exposition of
his views, he set a splendid example, not only to
those who were his fellow-legislators in the
THE HON. SIR JOHN HAY, K.C.M.G.


Assembly, but has left a precedent to new men,
which they would do well to follow. His whole
public career is worthy of careful study, because
it will stand the test of the closest scrutinyßorn
at Little Ythsie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, in 1816,
he has already reached a ripe age ; but his
vivacity and activity make him look a great deal
younger than he is. He was educated at King s
College, Aberdeen, where he read a distinguished
course, and graduated with credit in 1834. He
next turned his attention to legal pursuits, and
studied diligently for a couple of years, till the
desire for a more active life took possession
of him. He would have probably become
(had he persevered in his forensic pursuits)
an able special pleader ; but something he
had heard of the free and healthful life
of a pastoral settler in Australia attracted
him to these shores. He arrived in Sydney in
1838, and took up a station at Welaregand, some
seventy miles above Albury. Here for eighteen
years he pursued the profitable tenour of his way,
becoming in that period, through his forethought,
perseverance, and integrity, one of the richest and
most respected of the shepherd-lords of Australia.
So successful a citizen could not be permitted to
enjoy otium with dignity: he was urgently invited
to take part in the public life of the country.
Having made up his mind to devote his leisure to
politics, he at once promulgated his views—and
that with no uncertain sound. He proclaimed, as
the neucles of policy, Free Trade across the
Border, and cheap justice for all. He was re-
turned in 1856 by the electors of Murrumbidgee,
at the first general election under Responsible
Government, without contest, and in company
with the late Mr. George Macleay. Before he had
been six months in the Assembly, he electrified
the House and the country by a brilliant attack
on the stronghold of Cowperism —illustrated the
way Mr. (now Sir James) Martin was “ pitch-
forked ” into office as Attorney-General; and
carried his motion of want-of-confidence by a coup
de main, on a majority of 26 to 23. He was sent
for by Sir William Denison, the Governor, to form
a Ministry, but modestly gave the pas to Mr. (now
Sir Henry) Watson Parker, who succeeded in
harnessing a Ministerial team, Mr. Hay taking
the portfolio of Lands and Works. This admini-
stration lasted nearly a year, and seemed to give
satisfaction to the country at large, more espe-
cially as Mr. (afterwards Sir Stuart) Donaldson
was popularly believed in as a skilled master of
finance: but Mr. Cowper, always wary, was per-
petually on the watch for a chance to regain his
position. Something, tinged with a dye of squat-
ting Conservatism, proposed by the Parker Go-
vernment, gave him a chance for re-marshalling
his forces. He made his attack on the 3rd Sep-
tember, 1857, and defeated his opponents by
exactly the same majority to which he had himself
to succumb the year before —namely, 26 to 23 Mr.
Cowper returned to power almost as a perpetual
dictator, and had to encounter the determined but
honourable antagonism of Mr. Hay, whose moral
sense revolted at the scandalous way patronage
was being abused. For eleven years he kept a
seat in the House, representing the Murrum-
bidgee, the Murray, and Central Cumberland
during that time. His opposition to the 13th
clause of the Robertson Land Bill—the principle
of free selection before survey —was most resolute
and enlightened. He denounced it as fallacious —
a curse in disguise—a temptation to men to isolate
themselves from each other —a means at the com-
mand of the dishonest to levy blackmail on the
Crown lessees—a legitimated system of malafides
that would be pregnant of perjury and dishonesty;
in fact, all the evils that afterwards sprung from
dummyism and false declarations. Mr. Hay
would sooner give land at half its reputed real
value to genuine settlers within the defined agri-
cultural areas, than fill the Treasury with the
ill-gotton proceeds of the practical confiscation of
millions of acres. Supported by a strong phalanx
of resolute and able men, he carried, on the 27th
October, 1862, after an exhaustive and lively de-
bate of two nights, an amendment for the inser-
tion of the words “ after survey ” in the clause,
by a majority of 33 to 28. Consternation at first
paralysed “the radical reformers,” but on re-
covering the expedite use of their faculties, the
Ministry obtained a dissolution, and then the cry
of “ Free selection before survey ” rang, in every
tone of the gamut of popular enthusiasm or agra-
rian fanaticism, through all parts of the country.
The selectionists triumphed —they sent a “ brass
band” of agrarian revolutionists into Parliament
to carry Mr. Robertson’s theory into legislative
effect. Although Mr. Hay continued to hold a
seat in the Assembly after the Cowper-cum-
Robertson compact had become complete, he gave
little opposition to the Ministerial policy; and in
1862 was elected Speaker—a position which he
resigned, in consequence of ill health, in October,
1865, but continued to sit as a Member for nearly
two years afterwards. On the 26th June, 1876, he
was called to the Legislative Council, whose
President he became on the demise of Sir T. A.
Murray ; and he continues to hold that office still,
to the great advantage of honorable members, and
the good of the whole community. Laden with
honours—including that of knighthood—but not
in the least spoiled by success, chivalric and
genial, philanthropic and humane —there is not
perhaps in all Australia a public man whose
career is more creditably distinguished than that
of the Hon. Sir John Hay.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Brodribb has taken possession of the front
Opposition bench, giving somebody fitz.
Tom Slattery will move the remission of interest
on Conditional Purchases, on the 15th February.
Mr. Farnell, what’s the matter ? You’ve been in
two divisions lately in the minority—s 9 to 5 one night,
40 to 4 the other. It looks lively.
That was a staunch supporter who, at a recent
southern election, pledged his bullock team and dray to
find the £4O deposit for his man. And his man was
second on the poll.
The State Children’s Relief Bill, introduced by
Sir Henry Parkes, provides for boarding out children,
and expressly enacts that “ disorderly children may be
punished with a birch rod.” Now, where is the tnrch
rod to come from P Forster is the only person we know
who has one, but that’s in pickle.
The Hon. James Watson was not able to attend
the Conference dinner on Thursday night. He tried to
tack on to a monthly Supply Bill the Immigration vote
and £16,000 for the Milburn Creek Company. He was
kept till near 12 o’clock, and then had to promise not
to expend the former and to withdraw the latter.
Tom Slattery has secured two wins, and they
are of benefit to the country. He protested against the
Immigration Regulations, and Sir Henry said no more
money would be spent under them. He also moved
and carried, against a solid opposition, a new clause
in the University Bill, giving B.A.’s all the power of
M.A.’s.
The acting secretary of a temperance associa-
tion solemnly declared that certain members of Parlia-
ment, supposed to represent temperance interests, were
iu the habit of receiving cheques, with the understand-
ing that tbev were to steadilv oppose temperance in-
-1 crests; and, firtb r, that he had seen the cheques,
o,nd would, at a future date, disclose the names.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
An ex-clerk, Bank of New Zealand, is to deprive
East Maitland of a fair daughter of the clergy.
Ladies’ bathing-dresses are now made in the
form of full ball costumes, excepting only the train.
A marriage is on the tapis between the eon of a
Victorian Police Magistrate and a young lady of Bondi.
A Paddington beauty has consented to name the
day for an active andpromising young spark in the Mer-
cantile Bank.
The handsome daughter of a rev. gentleman of
West Maitland, is to take a bank manager in the Far
West, for better or for worse.
The only daughter of a late well-known owner
of thoroughbreds on the Paterson, is engaged to
a well-known member of the Maitland Amateur Turf
Club.
A match has been arranged between the manager
of a Newcastle bank, and the graceful daughter of a
Customs official of the same city. The marriage is to
take place shortly.
A double wedding will shortly take place, be-
tween two daughters of a well-known citizen, on the
one side, and on the other a parson and a son of a
prominent Doctor of Divinity.
The nuptials is about to take place between a
handsome young gentleman of Darlinghurst-road, not a
mile from Albert Terrace, and a beautiful, accomplished
young lady residing in Porbs-street, Woolloomooloo,
A marriage has been arranged between the
eldest daughter of a well-known soft goods merchant
and a near relative of the lady—who, by the way, is
understood to have recently jilted an importunate
suitor.
A ball-dress recently worn by a lady in this city
was composed of cream-coloured satin, covered with
beautifully painted bunches of apple-blossom, and grace-
fully looped over a skirt of Vermillion satin, profusely
trimmed with pearls, diamonds, and magnificent lace.
A very effective and elegant dress, recently worn
by a Sydney lady, consisted of pale aurora satin, trimmed
with old point lace, and a garland of leaves and roses,
falling from the right shoulder to the bottom of the
skirt.
A very pretty costume, lately worn by a young
Burwoodlady, was a polonaise of white muslin and lace,
falling gracefully over a skirt of sky-blue silk. Another
elegant polonaise was a silver-grey, looped so as to form
a point at one side, and trimmed with puffed frills and
pink bows.
An interesting marriage was celebrated on
January 31, at St. Mary's, Balmain, bv the Eev. T. B.
Tress. The bridegroom was Hector Monro, youngest
son of Captain Monro, and the bride was Annie Poyn-
ter, daughter of Dr. Evans, the Balmain popular
mdico.
An aristocratic wedding took place in the chapel
of St. John’s College, Sydney, by his Grace Archbishop
Vaughan, assisted by Dr. Colletti. The bride was
Mary Eliza Jean, eldest daughter of Lieutenant-Colonel
Chichester, of Rwnnamoat, GountyEoscommon, Ireland,
and the bridegroom was the eldest son of Sir Charles
Clifford. The wedding breakfast was given at Mr. E.
Prendergast’s mansion, Edgecliff-road.‘,
Fashion prospers in the colonies, and Sydney is
not to be behind any other city. The display in the
windows of our principal houses has proved this for
some time past. Now, however, there is to be a further
advance. Messrs. D. Jones and Co. picked out from
the principal London house the leading costumier of
the big city. This gentleman, who has made his pro-
fession an art, enjoyed the personal patronage of the j
Princess of Wales, Princess Beatrice, and other j
members of the Eoyal Family. We may expect now to )
find Sydney, in respect of style and fashion, far ahead j
of any city in the colonies. <j
An aristocratic wedding took place on January
8, at St. James’ Church, Sydney. The clergyman was
the Eev. W. Hough. The bridegroom was Francis
George Battye, fifth son of the popular Captain Battye,
23rd‘Eegt. Eoyal Welsh Fusileers, and now Superinten-
dent of Police, Albury. The bride was Florence, eldest
daughter of the late John Vautin, and grand-daughter
of Claude Theodore Vautin, mentioned so often as aide-
de-camp to Napoleon Buonaparte, Emperor of the
French.
A most brilliant assemblage at Government
House on Saturday afternoon, everything making it
one of the most enjoyable gatherings we can remember
for some time past—the pretty faces, elegant dresses,
enticing music, and charming weather leaving nothing
to be desired. Our stately and gracious hostess wore a
beautiful and becoming dress. A Burwood young lady
wore (and therein looked most picturesque) a study in
white and navy blue velvet, while her married sister was
quite enchanting in pink. A brown-orbed young lady
from Ashfleld looked pretty, her sombre dress contrast-
ing not unfavorably with the varied and brighter hues
around, while her sister (our belle of the Melbourne
Government House ball) was tastefully attired, but why
so bored ? A North Shore young lady was fascinating
in a combination of old gold ; and a dark Sydney
was a subject for contemplation. We liked a dress of
white satin and white plush, and a white dress with old
gold satin waistbelt and Tam o’ Shantor hat was effective.
Doubtless, owing to the heat, dancing and tennis were
nowhere, many of the guests apparently being too
languid to admit of any exertion, beyond consuming
ices and claret cup.
Lady Augustus Loftua’s garden party at
Government House last Saturday afternoon was a very
brilliant affair, and was much enjoyed. Amongst the
invited guests present were Lady Stephen and Misses
Stephen, Lady Hay, Lady Eobertson, his Honor Chief
Justice Wrensfordley (of Western Australia), his Honor
Mr. Justice Faucett, Hon. Mr. Morgan, M.P. (South
Australia),Captain and officers H.M.S. Danae.his Honor
Judge Forbes, Mrs. Forbes, Judge Josephson and Mrs.
Josephson, Captain Le Patourel, Mr. and Mrs. C. J.
Eoberts, Mr. H. Halloran, C.M.G , and Misses Hal-
loran, Hon. John Blaxland and Miss Blaxland, Chief
Commissioner Deflell and Mrs. Deffell, Mr., Mrs., and
Misses Labertouche, Hon. Geoffrey Eagar and Mrs.
Eagar, Major and Mrs. Airev, Mr. E. Burdett Smith,
M.P., and Miss E. B. Smith, Mr. S. A. Joseph, Mrs. and
Miss Joseph, Mrs. Judge Wilkinson, Mrs. and Miss
Plunkett, Mr. B. L. Moutefiore and Miss Montefiore,
Hon. John Marks, M.L.C.,and Miss Marks, Hon. Joseph
Docker, M.L.C., Mr. Douglas, M.P., Mr. Thomas
Eobertson, Mrs. and Miss Eobertson, Mrs. Bouverie,
Mr. P. C. Pnrves, M.P., and Mrs. Purves; Mrs. and
Miss Billyard, Hon. J. B- Watt, M.L.C.; Hon. Charles
Campbell, M L.C., and Mrs. Campbell, Mrs. J. C. Cox,
and Misses Benson, Captain Mann, Mrs. and Miss Mann,
Mr Critchett Walker, Major Murphy, Lieut. Savage,
Dr. Hall Palmer, Mrs. and Miss Palmer, Mr. Paul
(Eussian Consul) and Mrs. Paul, Mr. and Mrs. E. C.
Clove, Dr. Garran, Mr. Edward Knox, Mrs. and
Misses Knox, Mr. Barnet (Colonial Architect) and
Mrs. Barnet, Miss Laidley, Hon. P. G. King, Mr. and
Mrs. E. Terry, and Mr. J. L. Harnett. His Excellency
Lord Augustus Loftus and Lieutenant Loftns were also
present, and assisted Lady Loftus in contributing to
the enjoyment of her guests.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The federation of the Australian Church of
England press is advocated.
A spire is shortly to be added to the tower of
St. Patrick’s E. C. Church, Parramatta.
Many preachers seek to impress their hearers
with the fact that life is short, but forget it in their
sermons.
His Lordship Bishop Barker is slowly gaining
strength. Is it not desirable to appoint a coadjutor,
with right of succession ?
Another good church service at St. Mark’s,
Darling Point. The Te Beum was rendered by the
choir in a perfect manner.
The Rev. E. T. Hills has resigned the charge of
the Congregational Church at West M aitland, after 20
years’ labour. Poorly paid, of course.
The Wesleyan Conference has been sitting
during the past week. Many congratulations have been
offered to the new President, Eev. George Woolnough.
St. Matthias’ is supposed to have one of the
best choirs in Sydney, and for a Low church it is one of
the hest in Sydney. Tet it has a wet blanket which the
people hope to get rid of at Easter.
The late Rev- C. D. Newman, incumbent of
Wollombi, who died on the 11th inst., was for twenty
years a resident of the Hunter, and was 48 years of age.
He leaves a widow and five children.
The High Church of All Saints, St. Kilda, Vic-
toria, is wealthy but expensive. Receipts during 1880,
£2500, of which £1055 are from offertories and £1398
from seat rents. Yet they are £33 in debt.
Last Sunday Archbishop Vaughan opened a
splendid school at Lavender Bay, which has been built
by the Jesuits. The edifice is lofty and well-ventilated.
The Archbishop delivered a solid, powerful address.
Archbishop Vaughan is to visit Ulladulla dis-
trict in a few days. He will be domiciled at Mrs. Mac-
Mahon’s, whose hospitality is provervial. His Grace’s
visit will be partly for health’s sake, and partly on
Church business.
The Eev. E. H. Gulliver, M.A., who for the
past twelve months has officiated at Christ Church pro-
Cathedral, Ballarat, having accepted the position of
head master of a college in New Zealand, on Sunday, at
the pro-Cathedral, preached his farewell sermons.
The Eev. Charles Clark, the well-known lec-
turer, is resting quietly at Nottingham, where he
studied for the Baptist ministry. He is still attached to
that denomination, and is expected to re-enter the
ministry. The rumour about his conversion to Roman
Catholicism was a canard.
A Baptist minister in Auckland, the Eev. Allan
W. Webb, accepts the expulsion of the Jesuits from
France, the formation of a Land League in Ireland,
and the growing insubordination of democracy, as irre-
fragable evidences that the time is ripe for the manifes-
tations of Antichrist and the advent of Jesus.
Eev. Canon Gunther, of Parramatta, is one of
the most hard-working clergymen in the colony. His
hours of labour—a large number of which aro devoted
to visiting his poor parishioners—are said to exceed
eighteen daily. Yet he never murmurs, and has once
refused an increase of “ screw.” What an example for
the Stigginses!
Archbishop Croke (formerly Bishop of Auck-
land, N.Z.) has gone to Rome to personally present to
the Pope the sum of £2276, collected in his diocese
during the past year as subscriptions to Peter’s Pence.
The London Timfs says that on reaching Rome Dr.
Croke will receive an intimation that it is His Holiness’s
intention to create him a Cardinal at the next Con-
sistory.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
During the intense heat at Parramatta, on
Thursday last, a large number of birds dropped dead.
The dispute between the Austrian Band and
their managers has been referred for arbitration to Mr.
E. S. Smythe.
Dan O’Connor, M.P., is about to open a grand
butcher’s shop in William-street. A spree, of course.
Where’s the “ riddy rickenor ?”
Some of the railway employes at Granville and
Parramatta work twelve hours, with only one interval
of half-an-hour for dinner.
Mr. J. B. Elworthy, of Gundagai, met with a
nasty accident with some printing machinery at his
office, last week. Soon recover, however.
A splendid piece of classic statuary is now on
view at Palmer an "Weeks’, King-street. It was ex-
ecuted ©n the premises, and is really very creditable.
Sir William Robinson, Governor of Western
Australia, is a composer, and when in England was
charmed with Miss Christian’s rendering of one of his
best songs, “ In happier days."
There is a Tambo in Queensland. But there
was a “ tambo ” at the Fitz-Stubbs concert at Maitland
on the 22nd inst. that knocked the community—and the
tambo too. The Melican man was also well-up in his
playing.
It is on the cards that old Government House at
Parramatta will be offered to the Governor as a contry
residence. It is asserted that three of the Parramatta
Park Trustees are in favour of, and two opposed to the
proposal.
Mr. J. R. Miles, formerly of the Telegraph De-
partment, has commenced business in the city as auc-
tioneer and house and estate agent. Mr. Miles is a
first-class business man, bound soon to be in the way of
a good trade.
There is no longer the slightest doubt as to the
authorship of the Bombay Gazette letters about Sydney
and Melbourne, as Mr. B. S. Smythe knows, on the
authority of private letters, that they were written by
Arthur Sketchley.
The official programme for the Anniversary
Regatta was got out in fine style, and proved a very
great convenience. It was printed by Messrs. John
Woods and Co., Bridge-street, and was compiled and
published by Mr. A. O. Jackson.
To the credit of the gentleman who got up the
sweep at Eandwick recently and had his book eaten by
a vanman’s horse, be it said that he has since paid the
right winner half his proper stakes. The said winner
was somewhat loth to accept the amount paid, but re-
collecting the old adage that half a loaf is better than
no bread, acted thereon.
So the land about Katoomba Falla, on tl ic Blue
Mountains, is in the market. This is certa.uly the
healthiest and most beautiful spot in Austral The
magnificent Katoomba Estate, which was locked up for
some time, has been thrown open to purchasers, and the
sale is announced for the 12th February. Mountain
retreats are becoming of great value. Business men
exhausted by their labor in the city require a spell in
the mountains, if only for a few days, to restore their
energies. For families who are distressed by the
atmosphere of Sydney, the mountain retreats are a
perfect boon, and there is no doubt the sale announced
will bring together a large number of ready investors.
Cook’s River —about Burwood —is a delightful !
place for boating. Two German shopkeepers from the
city were out practising the other day. They are both
of equal strength, can smoke the same kind of tobacco,
eat the same sized dinner, drink the same number of
glasses of lager-beer, and are both equally good at
pulling an oar. They decided to try. the other day,
which had the greater merit—the sliding-seat or the
swivel-rowlocks. They only had one boat, which be-
longed to the Swiss Consul. One man had the sliding,
seat fixed on his side of the boat, and the other fixed
the swivel-rowlocks on his side —and they started mu-
tually, to see which could “ pull the other round.” The
clock-maker caught the water first, and the swivel
worked magnificently, doing 15 strokes to the minute;
but the Hunter-street man ” caught a crab” with the
slide, and slid over the stern of the boat into the river.
Then the boat capsized, and the other occupant found
himself floundering in the vasty deep (four feet of
water). Some Chinese gardeners came to the rescue,
and the coming champions were brought to terra hrma.
A large quantity of saurkrant and lager-beer (Toohey’s
brand) was drowned, also the boat, and the Hunter-
street man's wig narrowly escaped a similar fate, being
rescued by one of the Chinamen, who afterwards
wanted to buy it to use as a vegetable-basket. The
Chinese made threepence out of the affair. Moral :
« Never go boating on Sundays, when you ought to be
at a public-house.”
Lord Beaconsfield exhibits his usual peculia-
rities in “ Eudymion.” The excessive number of
characters and amount of incident he has crammed into
the book, would furnish forth a dozen; and the almost
Oriental splendour of the surroundings, and gorgeous-
ness of the people, have little resemblance to the
reality in this nineteenth-century England. We cannot
forbear quoting, in illustration of this, the particularly
striking picture of the twins, Endymion and Myra, as
children allowed to come down to dinner“ Though
only eight years old, a most unchildlike self-possession
distinguished them. The expression of their counte-
nances was haughty, disdainful, and supercilious.
Their beautiful features seemed quite unimpassioned,
and they moved as if they expected everything to yield
to them. The girl, whose long ringlets were braided
with pearls, was ushered to a seat next her father, and,
like her brother, who was placed by Mrs. Perrars, was
soon engaged in negligently lasting delicacies, while
she seemed apparently unconscious of any one being
present, except when she replied to those who ad-
dressed her, with a stare and a haughty monosyllable.
The boy, in a black velvet jacket, with large Spanish
buttons of silver filigree, a f hirt of lace, and a waistcoat
of white satin, replied with reserve, but some con-
descension, to the good-natured but half-humorous
inquiries of the husband of Zenobia. * And when do
you go to school ?’ asked his lordship, in a kind voice
and with a laughing eye. ‘ I shall go to Eton in two
years,’ replied the child without the slightest emotion,
and not withdrawing his attention from the grapes he
was tasting, or even looking at his enquirer, ‘ and then
I shall go to Christchurch, and then I shall go to
Parliament.’ ”
The speech of Hugo Louis Beyers on the Non-
Liability Mining Bill was very telling.
On Saturday a race in watermen’s skiffs took
place at Newcastle between Turner and Blackwell for a
wager of £lO to £B, distance, about two miles. Black-
well won easily.
LATE THEATRICAL.
The Williamsons shortly re-appear in Sydney.
The Williamsons look blooming after their Tas-
manian trip.
Louise Pomeroy is 28, single, and reported to be
worth £30,000.
The Williamsons have arrived in Melbourne, en
route to Sydney.
Al. Hayman is in Adelaide, arranging for
Pomeroy season.
Macdonald, International Dramatic Agency, is
agent for Al. Hayman.
Miss Annie Barclay plays for twelve nights at
the Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
Ketten, who went to New Zealand with Pines,
will come hack with repining.
Myra Kemble supports Leake during his Mel-
bourne season, as leading lady.
“ Kerry Gow ” will be produced at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne, on February 13.
Charley Brown, as Wangdoole, in the panto-
mime at the Melbourne Royal, is a hit.
At the Opera House, “ Leander ” is a success.
Like Leander, therefore, Jimmy is “ in the swim.”
W. H. Leake had the Austrian Band playing
against him in Hobart, and did badly in consequence.
At the Queen’s, there is a Foley up stairs and
a Foley down stairs. Both are champions in their way.
Kelly and Leon’s Minstrels appear for the 100th
time on Wednesday next. Sweatman has been a great
hit.
All the costumes for the “ Pirates of Penzance”
to be produced by the Williamsons have been im-
ported.
Louise Pomeroy has just closed one of the most
successful engagements ever played in Sandhurst and
Ballarat.
John Bennett, speaking of the noble army of
theatrical agents, says that R. S. Smythe is the first,
and the rest nowhere.
Miss Pomeroy opens at the Theatre Eoyal, Ade-
laide, on February 5, and then re-appears at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne, during the Easter holidays.
In “Uncle,” Miss Melrose plays Mrs. Beau-
mont : and before the first act is over, every man in the
theatre wishes to thunder he was Mr. Beaumont.
A Melbourne print publishes as an original
comical account of Kowalski's pianoforte-playing, a
squib written about Rubinstein’s wonderful perfor-
mances.
The Infant Mozart, whose wonderful genius
Miss Christian was the first to recognise and fester, is*
at present living with Dr. Torrance, the musical clergy-
man of Melbourne.
Proctor did not visit the West Coast and other
important districts of New Zealand, and so left several
hundreds of pounds behind him, which, however, the
next comer is not likely to take.
In consequence of the crowd at the Gaiety
every evening, Mr. Webber, of the hotel, does nothing
but sit in a chair, behind the bar, and watch the money
coming in, while he is smoking somebody else’s pipe.
A notice of “ Jack the Giant-Killer ” would be
futile. Everybody has seen it —or is seeing it. Nothing
can be more charming than the trio, Greville, Leston,
and Kate Foley. People go there to laugh: and they
do laugh—the only people that don’t laugh being
those that can’t get in.
“ Ours ”is still rippling at the Eoyal. One of
the successes of the piece is undoubtedly Mr. J. H.
Rainford’s Sergeant. In this part he acts and looks to the
life; and his every allusion to “ che twins ” is received
with roars of laughter. “Actor, boniface, and ”
we were about to add “ bard ’’—but we remember, that
was Mr. Whitetieandspectaclelancers.
The Gaiety was brightened on Tuesday by the
presence of Mrs. Mary Gladstnne (Mrs. Bayless). That,
talented lady’s friends—and they are legion—will be
pleased to hear that she was in not only the best pos-
sible health and spirits, but in the prettiest possible
dress, and looking as bright as the Queen’s head on a
new half-sovereign. Mrs. Bayless laughed unaffectedly
at Mr. Marshall’s antics—and it is something to see a
tragedienne smile. Lewis Scott never laughs at any-
thing, but, a-hem! he is not a tragedienne.
Gaiety Theatre.
After witnessing fhe bright performance at this bright
little theatre, it is no matter of surprise to us that the
representation has met with scant favour at the hands
of certain Sydney critics. “Uncle” is a most deli-
cately written and sparkling comedy. Every scene
abounds with the most delightful witticisms—the most
polished repartee. Elderly ladies, however, and raw
youths, are not, in a general way, capable of appre-
ciating wit when artistically veiled and clothed in the
garb of epigrammatic satire. Tastes, of course, differ,
and the tastes of critics in common with those of
other people. We have seen the journalistic censors of
this city in hysterical convulsions over Punch and
Judy, and are sure many of them would write up in
rhythmic sentences the exquisite drollery of a clown
grinning through a horse-collar at a country fair. These
“ high-class” entertainments are, however, suited only
to lofty minds; and, so far as we are concerned, we are
quite content with a clever comedy from the pen of a
clever man, which is intelligently interpreted by a com-
pany of highly competent artistes —headed by a low
comedian of transcendent ability. Such is “ Uncle” at
the Gaiety; such are the Gaiety company and Mr.
Frederick Marshall. As Paul Beaumont, this gentle-
man was very happy. Every point in the lines allotted
to him he made with telling force, and his by-play
was inimitable. His appearance on the stage wa?
always the signal for a broad grin to pucker up the faces
of the audience, and his drolleries were received—as
they deserved to be—with expressions of unqualified
approval. Next in order of merit comes Mr. E.W.
Marshall’s “ Uncle Bootle.” As the woman-hating old
gentleman, Mr. Marshall made a great bit; and he has
had at length an opportunity of showing that he possesses
histrionic talent of a very high order. Miss Melrose
looked irresistible in a lovely rose-coloured dress, and
played the part of Mrs. Beaumont with charming grace
and finish. Mr. Emmett was moderately successful as
Peter Fletcher, being at times a little stagey, but never-
theless causing in some of the scenes —notably in the
first act —great amusement. Mrs. Frederick Marshall
sustained the small part of Emily Montrose effectively,
and wore a magnificent dress of pale blue velvet, and
black velvet stamped with blue. Miss Maggie Forde
made |a vivacious Sarah-Jane, her scene with Uncle
Bootle being uncommonly good. The farce, “ My Turn
Next,” in which Mr. F. Marshall played Taraxion*
Twitters, was one scream throughout, and brought »
delightful entertainment to a pleasant close. On Satur-
day night the Gaiety company will play “The Peel
Boatman,” and Byron’s “ The Old Story.”
There will be a great assemblage of beauty and
fashion this evening at the Musical Union’s Concert, at
which Miss Christian will make her first appearance
Sydney since her return from England.


TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
E. A. Sothern dead.
Land Leaguers trial still on.
Outrages in Ireland increase.
Russia and China now friendly.
The frost broken up in England.
Mr. Gladstone’s health precarious.
Swartzieland captured by the Boers.
Fresh trial of Land Leaguers expected.
Fenians in Ireland actively conspiring.
Troops sent to quell riots in Lancashire.
Peruvians taken Callao, seaport of Lima.
Parnell section determined on obstruction.
Russians besieging Geok Tepe, in Central Asia.
Protos’ frozen meat sold in London at 6£d. lb.
Tone of English Press favorable to Forster’s
Bill.
Umdethura and 800 followers surrenders at the
Cape.
Jury in Land Leaguers’ trial disagreed, and dis-
charged.
Fearful storm raged in England and west of
Europe.
Hanlan-Laycock race again postponed until 14th
February.
The Thames overflowed its banks. Damage,
£2,000,000.
Irish Executive repressing outrages, which
are increasing.
Judge Fitzgerald summed up favourably for the
Land Leaguers.
Lima captured by Chilians. M. Pierota, Peru-
vian President, fled.
Union Bank of Australia declared dividend 16
per cent, for half-year.
Forster’s Coercion Bill for Ireland introduced
into British Parliament.
Great Powers trying to preserve peace between
the Porte and Greece.
Justin M ; Carthy’s amendment against military
force in Ireland rejected.
Sixty members of Land League served with
summonses for seditious speeches.
The Land League jury sat six hours before they
were discharged. Rejoicing in Dublin.
Sir Charles Dilke states plan of settling Greek
frontier question by joint arbitration abandoned.
Scene in House of Commons, caused by Mr.
O’Donnell calling Mr. Gladstone a traitor to the
country. In consequence of disorder, House ad-
journed.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Within one week the steamer Flinders took 550
people from Melbourne to Tasmania. The weather
here (says our Adelaide correspondent) is hot! hot!!
hottentot!! 1 and dust reigns supreme. By the bye,
I never thought of it before, but doubtless that accounts
for the number of babies in Adelaide. I remember hear-
ing somewhere that we’re all made of it. Frank
Skeffington Carroll, who is the proprietor, editor, and
staff of the Adelaide Lantern, is going to merge that
somewhat dull illumination into a paper in imitation of
The Bulletin. Frank has been in trouble for libel on
at least one occasion, and heaven only knows what will
happen when ho comes to indite Personal Items.
The orators of the Bathurst-street column were dis-
banded by the police on Monday night The “boss
talker” says he means to defy the police, and intends
holding forth as usual. The Chatham Islands mur-
derer, W. Harehapa, has been sentenced to death.
Sir Arthur Gordon is visiting the various N.Z. towns.
Before the road between the top of Oxford-street
and the Barrack gates was broken up it was in a suffi-
ciently disgraceful state. But now the horse-flogging
scenes to be seen there daily are horrible to witness.
——« A boy” writes saying that the world which at
Christmas now gives to boys cards instead of substan-
tial presents is growing mean and selfish. A Hebrew
money-lender who runs the theatre programme in
Adelaide got well “hammered” for a piece of
impertinence the other day. He having casually
remarked in his publication that “ Jim Dick still wears
the same hat,” Mr. Dick (who is a well-known share-
broker) called around at the offender’s bivouac, and
smashed three of his best bell-toppers! The pro-
gramme man threatened law —but took a “ tenner” and
squared it. “The Whampoa” was the gem of the
Coonamhle concert. The Municipal Election for
Anderson Ward, Parramatta, will be a run over for H.
Taylor, although a young aspirant is trying to purchase
the seat. A case of bigamy is on the tapis at
Parramatta. There is no idea as yet of the facts.
—-At the annual meeting of subscribers to the Parra-
matta District Hospital, on Tuesday evening last, the
following elections took place: President, Rev. Canon
Gunther; secretary, Mr. W. J. Stevenson; treasurer,
Mr. Herbert Coates; committee. Archdeacon Rigney
(R.C ), Messrs. Artlett, Henderson, Bladon, Sparks,
Rowe, Overton, Shepherd. Hughes, Schwartzkoff,
Crook, and Gee. The balance-sheet and report showed
the institution to he in a highly prosperous condition.
J. Y. Mills is the coming Parramatta magnate. He
is to be elected for Marsden Ward at the next muni-
cipal election. A Parramatta resident asks why
should not the Park trustees erect a fountain on the
lawn in front of the main pavilion. The new pavilion
in the Parramatta Park is a creditable affair. It is
provided with seats for dancers, a retiring room for
ladies. See. A large tank supplies plenty of good water
aud the trustees are about to have two large coppers
erected, so that picnic parties will be able to (obtain
boiling water. Some very choice “slipper” work
may be seen at Mr. John Green’s, Sir Hercules Robin-
sou Hotel, Oxford-street.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Lady Eeader ” (Telegram): Unsuitable.
“Anonymous” (re Registrar-General): Malicious.
“W.L.” (Lamhton): Not in our style. “G.N.R.”:
It is not onr practice to touch on the personal quarrels
of private individuals. “ Glebe ”: We are not fishers
of such things. “A Subscriber” (Gonlburn): We
don’t notice such people or such papers. “ W.S”
(Inverell): We published the story last week.
“ Silverleaf” (Coonamhle): Thanks. “S.L.G.”: We
are chary of interfering in such matters. “ J.D.H.”:
Nicely written, but then what would Mrs. Grundy say ?
“ Kempsey No, we’re not in the habit of publish-
ing uninteresting matter “to oblige ” people—in other
words, to enable them to get glory at the public expense.
“S.W.S.”: A good idea, but imperfectly carried
out. “S.S” (re hotel): Just a little too warm.
“F.D.” (Adelaide): Thanks for the information, most
of which however, reaches us too late -we’ll keep in
mind your request. “T.8.E.”: Rather a queer coin-
cidence, but one to which we hardly care about refering.
“Braidwood”: Not sufficiently explicit. “W.
F.”: Uninteresting. “Marital”: We cannot allow
The Bulletin to become a medium for matrimonial
advts. of the kind sent us—squib announcements on
such a subject are not quite the thing, especially from a
married man. You can get your stamps hack on appli-
cation at this office, “J. M. W.”: R. Watson intends
accepting Aplett’s challenge when put in definite shape.
“R.H.”: Your contributions, though doubtless in-
teresting, would hardly suit the columns of The
Bulletin. “Pete”: Certainly not; if the old lady
jilted you she may have had good reasons for so doing.
You can’t “ cut people up ”in The Bulletin. Besides,
we don’t care about your reference to “ our brilliantly-
conducted and enormously widely circulated paper.”
We had enough of that when we were on the daily
papers. “ J.P.”: Write again. “ C. H.”: Notup to
the mark. “ Reno Faulty style. “G. B. S.”:
Glad to hear from you again. “ Suburban : ” Many
thanks; kindly continue. “ Constant Eeader ” (Ho-
bart) : Hardly in our style; write again. “ 1788 and
1881;” Writer please oblige with address.——“M.P.:”
Glad to hear from yon again. “A.C.:” The right
kind of newe.
The National Regatta.
The success of this great aquatic event this year was
unprecedented. The assemblage which crowded the
Australia was one of quite unexampled brilliancy in any
reunion that has taken place within the memory of
“ the oldest inhabitant.” The early hour at which we
went to press obviated the possibility of a detailed
notice in this issue; but in the next number of The
Bulletin we shall not fail to do justice to one of the
finest spectacles that have ever been witnessed in the
colony.
A New Industry.
The appearance of babies has merely been regarded,
until recently, as a natural misfortune (after the first
two); but recently the production of these innocent
little creatures has developed into an important in-
dustry. Only this week, in Sydney, one solitary infant
was purchased for £6, the conditions of the contract
(which is said to have been drawn out by an eminent
solicitor) being that the father and mother should
never hold, or seek to hold, any communication with
their offspring. This being agreed to, the child was
christened by the purchasers, and taken away to parts
unknown. We do not, of course, say that £6 per caput
is the standard quotation at the present time for
babies; but we have no doubt that a good chubby little
kid will find a ready market amongst certain persons
for, say, thirty shillings. Our morning contemporaries,
however, should include these interesting quotations
in their list. We charge nothing for the valuable hint.
The New Aquatic Course.
The future course for the aquatic championship of the
world will be on Cook’s River from Billy Lee’s place
on the Punch-bowl road to the Chinese gardens,
Canterbury—four miles. Then the accounts will read
something after this fashion :—Hanlan got away with
the start, and led down past Pred Hilly’s orchard,
shooting under Redman’s foot-bridge, two lengths
ahead of Rush, the champion; hut at Kater’s bathing
place the Australian began to draw up, and as they sped
past Marcantelli’s spring-cart, the “Murrickun”
showed signs of distress. Passing under Croydon
Bridge, Rash was leyel with his opponent, but, owing
to Hanlan trying to go inside a dead horse which was
floating in the river, a foul occurred. Both men,
however, got away again on even terms, and at old
Billy Redman’s duck-house Rush began to forge ahead,
and continued to increase his lead to the finish.
Hanlan rowed on pluckily, but had no chance, as Rush
simply played with him for the last two miles, stopping
on several occasions to pare his corns. Rush was
loudly cheered all along the river, and at every corner
was met with cries of “Go it, Mick 1” “Go it. Irish-
man !” “Go it, landlord-shooter!” and so on. After
the race, Hanlan claimed the foul, hut Mr. Ireland, of
Riverpool-road, who was referee, at once disallowed it.
Afterwards Hanlan shook hands with Rush, and said,
“Well, Mick, I acknowledge my defeat, but it aint
your strength as pulled you through; you know too
much; when I learn a little more about flxin’ them gas
meters in the boat, I’ll row the stuffin’ out o’ you.
However, we’re both from the same county, and fond
of hedges, too, I suppose.”
Concert at Maitland.
Mr. Percy F. Stubbs gave a concert on the 22nd inst.,
in the Victoria Theatre, West Maitland. The dress
circle was well filled, the ffiite of the district being
present; the other parts of the house were patronised
by an enthusiastic and music-loving audience. Mr.
Stubbs was assisted by local talent, and also by Mrs.
Riley, and Mr. H. R. Woods, the well-known amateur
baritone, from Sydney. The concert commenced with
the opening chorus from “ Maritana,” rendered by some
forty ladies and gentlemen in very good style; after
which Mr. C. Solomon, who has a fine deep bass
voice, gave “The Vagabond” and “The Warrior
Bold,” the latter being encored. Mrs. Riley then
rendered in her best style—and, as we all know,
this clever lady’s “best style” is the very best
—“I cannot say good-bye." It secured an encore,
to which she responded by giving “Kathleen
Mavoumeen” with delightful pathos. Mrs. Riley also
contributed “It was a dream,” with marked success.
Mr. H. R. Woods, in the first part, gave “Dagl Immor-
tali,” from “Attila,” and, as an encore, Tito Mattel’s
ever fresh “ For Ever.” In the second part, he very
kindly, at half an hour’s notice, sang a piece, composed
by Mr. Stubbs for first and second violins, the words of
which were taken from Longfellow’s beautiful “ Psalm
of Life.” He afterwards sang Hatton’s charming song,
“ To Anthea," which fairly brought down the house,
and, as an encore, gave “ Jack’s Yam.” Mrs. Riley
and Mr. Woods rendered in an excellent manner Verdi’s
“ Dual voce” from “ Trovatore,” which, being encored,
necessitated the latter part being repeated. Mr. Stubbs
and a lady amateur contributed a duo for two pianos,
“ The Duckenfleld Waltzes,” composed by Mr. Stubbs,
and dedicated to Mrs. John Bales A guitar duet and
a sestette were also performed by pupils of Mr. Stubbs,
the latter bringing the concert to a close.
BRIEF MENTION.
That fatal Chorus.
A handy man—Mr. Hourigan, J.P.
Favourite stone with topers—Quarts.
The Clarence twins.—Purves and See.
In the House Melville sits and Withers.
Parramatta has its great literary drunk.
The Wellington boot is on the other leg.
Tip for the first Mayor of Granville —Nobbs.
A Canadian house in this city flies the American
flag!
Babies will soon be fashionable. Mrs. Langtry
is going to have one.
Newspaper canvassing up Wagga way may be
styled—Brummagem.
The modern publican (in the Scripture sense of
the term). —House agents.
“ Gi-er-gan-tic” is what Mr. Fletcher, M.L.A.,
says when he means “ big.”
There are vacancies for twenty at Pandimonium
House, near Wynyard Square.
They waste plenty of water at fashionable
Potts’ Point boarding-houses.
Proctor taught us all about the heavens, yet we
won’t put our faith in “ stars.”
You can’t beat that Granville official who drives
a sociable, and yet runs a milk-cart.
“ The cry is still the comb,” wrote Shakespeare,
so he must have been in the business.
It’s not creditable to see a well-known temper-
ance man rolling home in his carriage.
S. H. Banks, the poet, is dead. Poor fellow!
We could better spare some other bard.
The Pharisee of our day.—The churchwarden
who farms many of the rookeries of Sydney.
Motto of the new arrival.—“ To dig I am not
able, to beg I am ashamed, to steal I am afraid.”
How was it His Ex. didn’t get the billet for his
protege ? Was it because it was in the C. J.’s gift ?
The ups and downs of colonial life are great —
“Up like a rocket,” &3. &c. Once a hawker, now a
Majah 1
An ex-priest of the Church of Rome is shortly
to lead to hymen’s altar a young and amiable lady of
Windsor,
A Watson’s Bay J.P. handles the pick and
shovel most part of Sunday. Never been to church—
never been to school.
In a Melbourne journal there is a portrait of
Miss Myra Kemble, which resembles that lady in the
same degree that M'Elhone does a lily.
A leading temperance man may often be seen at
one in the morning, doing Hyde Park. Of course its
the fountains that are the attraction.
You have only to whisper in Jim Rainford’s
hearing something about the Gaiety opening address,
and he immediately orders up the family crow-bar.
A Sydney publication is, we understand, to
shortly publish a sketch entitled, “ The Man in Pos-
session.” It will be written under spiritualistic con-
trol.
Henry Kendall, the poet, has gone to live at
Cundletown. He will have some difficulty in shedding
a poetic radiance over that place—if he adheres to that
name.
George Weather ill’s rendering of the popular
ballad “ Grandfather’s Clock,” at Filibuster’s concert
last Saturday night, at West Maitland, created quite a
furore.
“ You’re only a paid servant, sir,” said a W.
P.C. solicitor to his “ clerk," edat 10, on his displaying
some insubordination. “ I wish I was,” replied the
urchin.
From Appin is wafted us the following letter ■. —
“ I desire to make your acquaintance, and enclose the
needful—one quarter.—T. Brown.” Volumes could not
say more !
A handsome but rather flighty damsel, often seen
on the block, pressed a gentleman friend to write her a
loveletter —only it wasn’t to be a reai one. He wrote,
and —her father answered it.
At a concert at West Maitland last Saturday
night a bank-teller was most “vociferously” received
by his friends in the pit. [lt was a man from that
fashionable circle that sent us this. — Ed.]
The Northern Miner, after mature con-
sideration (4 years of it) considers Dr. Vaughan to be an
able man. Since this article appeared all doubts re-
specting the talents of his Grace have ceased to exist.
On the daughter of a certain dramatic critic
being married recently, the members of a theatrical
company in Sydney gave her £lOO worth of jewellery.
Now, who shall say there is no disinterestedness after
this.
Ashfield young ladies imagine they can dance
the new step a little bit. They hop gracefully from one
foot to the other, up a room and down again. The
effect is good. A sage man could make a fortune out
there.
The solicitor who a few days ago successfully
prosecuted in the city a member of a friendly society
for the nonpayment of contributions, is himself two
years in arrears to the same society. Summons to
issue.
Flags across tke roadway in Sussex-street,
Tuesday. Public supposition—a win for Laycock.
Turned out to be young Broomfield’s wedding. The
odds were 2to 1 Laycock; next morning, even money a
dead heat.
An insurance agent was persuading a person in
Campbelltown to insure for £5OO. A friend interfered,
saying, “If you do, I hope you’ll live to see your
friends draw the money.” Who’ll say now that whisky
is a silent spirit?
There was a marriage the other day in one of
the suburbs. It was in a German family. The store
was closed, and the clerk, a bit of a wag, said he would
write the notice. He did so. It ran thus: —“ Closed—
some fun in the family.”
It was decided among a number of frisky school
teachers, in a tram car last Tuesday, that Belmore Park
was a nice place for a spoon. We always thought the
kitchen was the place for that, but of course young
ladies never go there now.
A certain manufacturing jeweller’s firm carry-
ing on business in the city devote jointly and severally
a vast amount of their time to chaffing a rather gawky
barmaid at a cafr in George.street. The girl is fair, of
course; now we give the facts.
A facetious cabby approaching the stand last
Monday, got oft the box, took an inside seat, and drove
the cab, No end of good natured individuals all along
the route rushed to stop what they took to be a run
away. “ ’Say, let that pony go.”
He was a prowler, and was looking through
the rear window of a Macquarie-street house. When
interviewed, he said he was studying the beauties of
nature—meaning Bridget. “ Thin oill ind his sthudies,"
observed the maiden. After this the deluge.
A young lady residing at Ashfield, or there-
abouts, is the happy possessor of a painfully emaciated
greyhound, rejoicing in the name of “ Ketten.” When
last seen he consisted of seven ribs and a collar, and
was playing the “ Last Rose of Summer” to a crowded
room.
It is supposed from recent events that the
clergyman who was said to have been slyly viewing a
late race meeting from the Parramatta Park, was only
selecting a suitable locality for a church gathering. At
least that is how he explained the matter to his
congregation.
There is a rumour floating around to the effect
that Mr. W. B. Dailey’s residence, Clairvaux, Bose Bay,
has been purchased by the machine-editor of a daily
paper, and that the mansion is about to be re-christened.
The report, however, lacks confirmation. Thackamban
Lodge would be a nise name.
An individual recently attempted to bribe a
certain well-known spurring writer. His collar-bone
has been satisfactorily set. Whin he is about again, he
is to be informed that there is a further instalment
ready from where the last came from. However, Nemo
his puniatur pro eodem delicto.
Sam Lazar and Charley Mann (Colonial
Treasurer S.A.) were at the Gaiety Theatre on Tuesday
night When they came out Charles, in a critical tone,
informed his companion “ Thatwaszacklysortthing*
raisefellerspirits.” Then, “Lea have another bottle
sparkling mamselle-mean (hie) mo (hie) selie.”
The clerks in the Insolvency Department are all
Commissioners for Affidavits, which means a few extra
shillings per week on their salaries. The Prothonotary,
the other day, expressed an opinion that the Govern-
ment officials on the Commission were not entitled to
the fees, he himself refusing to take them. They re so
small! We wonder at the clerks.
“What’s the charge?” said Mr. Crane as a
small boy with a round head and large blue eyes was
carried in front of the table. “Bein’ under the age o’ six-
teen,” replied the constable. Then amid much laughter
the P.M. ordered the desperate criminal to be taken
home to his mother—hinting something about clanking
chains and rat-run cells should he ever do it again.
When the reporter of a contemporary goes to a
certain theatre he sits in the centre of the front row of
the orchestra stalls, with one arm akimbo, and with the
other fanning himself with his programme. Then, in
the middle of the piece, he turns to a friend and says
—“Did yon watch how she smiled at me.” But he
never sees the big squatter that is sitting behind him.
There is a gyurl at Campbelltown,
Who is the great attraction ;
Her beauty’s of such great renown—
She drives men to distraction !
But where she lives and who she is.
We’ll not be letting out sirs ;
We’ll merely hint as much as this :
To please her yon must shout, sirs.
The Christian Mbakly says that the Young
Men’s Christian Crumpet Association and their friends
spent a most enjoyable day on the charming grounds of
Vaucluse.” Now, what made them charming? The
quiet nooks and the girls, or “the waving scrub and the
limpid rocks ?” as the evening paper puts it. We have
serious misgivings—we’re afraid the old familiar game
of kiss in the ring is being given up for the new notion
of kiss in the bush.
A boating party hailing from the vicinity of
Snail’s Bay, were down the harbour last week for a
moonlight pull. One of the gentlemen, who is known
to be a great killer as well as a gpod vocalist, serenaded
the vessels in Farm Cove. He gave in fine style selec-
tions from “Faust,” &c., and a verse from the “Mid-
shipmite.” Just as all hands were piping up, the boat,
the girls, and the vocalist glided away. The ships are
hoping for a return.
Professor Tyndall was married a short time ago
at the age of 52 or 53. He was at a banquet at Edin-
burgh recently, and while wrapped for a moment in
deep thought forgetfully put a napkin in his pocket.
Two enterprising newspaper men went straight away
and predicted an interesting domestic event in the
world of science. It was a dear napkin. It cost the
Professor ten guineas, replying to congratulatory tele-
grams, denying the soft impeachment.
A leading denomination at Parramatta held a
“fair” in the Park, and called it a bazaar. The object
gained was threefold. The promoters helped to build a
church: they saw the races without paying the usual
admission charge; and, whilst more dissipated gamblers
the course proper went in for odds and “sweeps,”
they had a real good time with the lottery-bags and
spinning-jennies. There wasn’t any harm in it at all;
only the parson shouldn’t have preached down races.
A well-known resident of Darling Point entered
his house at an unexpected time the other day, and on
going into the dining-room, was surprised to And a
near relative of a Cabinet Minister seated in an arm-
chair, with the pretty parlor-maid on his lap. “What
do you call this conduct, sir ?” screamed the enraged
resident. “ Human nature,” replied the Cabinet
Minister’s relative. And then the latter went home to
his wife and three children, while the parlor-maid
ordered her boxes.
The following story appears in a Melbourne
“ funny ’’ contemporary:—“ Her mamma had gone into
Buckley and Nunn’s, and Ararninta leant back in the
carriage and fell asleep. While asleep she had a dream,
which ended like a nightmare. She dreamt that she was
reclining on a couch hollowed out of a single pearl, and
that a god-like man knelt beside her, whispering soft
nothings to the sound of sweet music. She woke, and
little Q stood before her, but the sweet music she
heard no more.” This must be original, for it appeared
two years ago in a little paper called Common Sense,
published in Adelaide—“ The Exchange ” being substi-
tuted for “Buckley and Nunn’s, and “Banbury" for
“ little G .
Waverley has for some time past been tmusually
quiet, probably owing to the depressing influence of
the dog days. Now, however, that it has been blest
with a few cooling showers, there are signs of a coming
revival of its accustomed gaiety—the first indication of
which was an entertainment on Monday evening last,
consisting of readings from Artemus Ward. A
gentleman opened the proceedings by a neat little
speech, in which he said that one result which would
follow from that evening’s entertainment would be to
greatly increase the number of readers of Artemus
Ward’s works. As the audience consisted of just seven
persons, one of whom was asleep, no doubt such will be
the case, and the Sydney booksellers may expect to be
cleared out very shortly. The mirth was most hilarious,
and everybody said they would be sure to come again.
We did not think there was such another “ poet”
in the world as our own Alfred Allen, but a Parramatta
bard has lowered his colours. He lunaticises thus about
the game of bowls:—
“ The curlew sends a shrilling sound
When bowls are sliding seen.
And kangaroos, rejoicing, bound
Enraptured o’er the green.
When bowling o’er the green.
When bowling on the green, oh, then !
What social joy is seen;
See Payten then, ’mong happy men,
Hooraying on the green.”
We like the idea of the enraptured kangaroo and the
rejoicing curlew.
Mr. David Walker, of the Y. M. C. Association,
has been recouped in the matter of his expenses to Mel-
bourne re the Conference there. The expenses were
rather heavy, but they live so fast in the Gomorrah of
the South that even Christians need a full purse. Mr.
Walker, however, thinks that his visit to London in
August to the World’s Conference will be not nearly so
expensive—which is enother point against Gomorrah.
Mr. Walker, by the way, read a paper at the Melbourne
Conference which has been published in part in the
Christian Crumpet. We can’t see why the editor
should object to the invitation to friends “ to give a
hand in the deep sea fishing carried on in the back streets
by the Y. M. C. A.” Ye gudgeons! But Mr. Walker
is right in referring to the heavy salary of the general
secretary—£4oo per annum. Now, why can’t half this
sum be given to the deep sea fishing fund, especially
since the under-secretary and caretaker can do their
work for the love of God and 255. a week.
The occasion was a club dinner in an old sub-
urban town. The company were chock full of mine
host’s good liquor, and the period was “ the wee short
hours ayont the twal,” when rigid decorum usually
at such events gives place to what the reporters call
conviviality. Thechairman, who is Mayor andan M.P.,
had assumed a “droopy," not to say dropsical, appear-
ance some time previously, but being aroused to a sense
of his responsibilities by the application of a wineglass-
fnl of cold water along his spinal marrow, he suddenly
wokeup with a jerk, and ejaculated—“ Who’ll (hie) sing
’nother shong ? Lesh (htc) have— more—song! Come
on, Fergy and Damby !'* The call for “ harmony” was
promptly met, a space was cleared at the head of the
table, whereon the trio mounted and joined hands, as
well for mutual self-support as in token of affection.
Then the “ stiily hours” were made lively by the melody
of “ Auld lang syne,” until, upon the chairman attempt-
ing a “ step,” the table gave way, and the vocalists we: e
deposited in an affectionate heap upon the floor. . . .
The fragments were very carefully gathered up, and at
2 5 a.m. —barrows.
For ecclesiastics: "What is the hardest lesson
you ever had to learn?” asked a young lady of a veteran
THE BARREL ORGAN.
The Defence of Woman’s Tongne.
Audacious poet, he who wields a quill
Asserting woman’s tongue is never still.
Whether fact or Action, ’tis too much for one
Whose dignity he sat upon.
’Tis a gift bestowed on woman.
Wherewith life to commence—
A most illustrious member
And weapon of defence;
Oft used in times of danger
For sounding forth alarms.
Soft, soothing, and reproving.
With various other charms.
Yet man must needs abuse it.
And scorn the sound thereof;
Freely still ■ , mse it
Regardless oi his scoff.
Quoth he, “ 'tis something awful.
And in perpetual swing.”
Submissive, sweet celestial he,
Who doth succumb to ling(uae.)
Had he wings like a dove, or e’en like a balloon.
He might soar to those regions blest.
Where the women cease from troubling
And the henpeck’d are at rest.
Waverley, 24th January, 1881.
[This bard is sweeter
And more correct.
We do expect.
Than the metre.
-Ed. B.]
Reconciliation.
She give them back to me again—
A lock of hair, a song or two,
A ring, a locket on a chain,
A batch of letters tied with blue.
Her golden hair, with glory crowned.
Her beauty pure, a priceless dower,
So sweet, not marred e’en when she frowned,
And cried: “ We’re strangers from this hour!”
I stood, affecting careless ease.
Although my heart did inly bleed;
I felt my very heart’s blood freeze,
Tet, smiling, coolly said, “ Indeed!
But stay : my gifts you have returned.
Yet something to me still is due;
Since you my honest love have spurned.
Now give me back my kisses, too 1”
A blush spread o’er her angel face,
A tear bedimmed her eyes of blue;
She stood in silence for a space.
As hardly knowing what to do.
Then to my side she swiftly sprang
(While I to meet her was not slack).
Her soft white arms around me flung.
And then she gave them doubly back !
M.J.
HEREERT H. DUVAR[?]


statesman known for his strong prejudices. “ That the
man who differs with me, not only in opinions, but in
principles, may be as sincere and honest as I am,” was
the reply.
Now it is not the height of military etiquette
to see an officer insist upon a gunner reporting the
doctor.
Larrikinism is rampant at Parramatta just now.
The police there should be more on the alert on Sunday
evenings.
It is recorded in the police books of Romsey
(Vic.), that a J.P. once dismissed a lunatic “ with a
caution.”
“The potato is cooked.” —The Mayor of Syd-
ney has abolished the usual fortnightly feeds at the
Town Hall.
We hear on good authority that the project of
the new Catholic daily has already considerably passed
the Eubie-con.
The Teromi (P Temora) paper’s editor says that
there is a splendid field for Matthew Burnett there. He
ought to know.
From the Herald :—“Boat Belle lost on Thurs-
day; reward. Apply E. Banks, Eushcutter Bay.” Very
discreet not to mention her name.
The Sultan of Turkey has conferred the decora-
tion of the Order of Medjidie on his tailor. Also the
second class on his Baker— Pasha.
When in the Freeman you do see
A leader “ leaded,” gen’rously
Murmur —“ Double-you-be-dee.”
“ The yachts toed the scratch,” and they had “ a
nice wholesale breeze,” is the happy "way Granny
described the race for the Commodore’s Prize.
A man was brought up at the Parramatta Police
court on Monday, who was shown by the record to have
paid upwards of £6O in fines for drunkenness.
An Australian ornithologist says that our
greatest tailbearers are Lyres. We don’t go in much for
the ‘ologies, but we knew that a long while ago.
Could our Government Astronomer compute the
exact time when the Crown-and-Anchor Comet will
again appear in the Sydney terrestrial heavens ?
A correspondent writes and asks us the following
question:—“ Has any person ever read the Protestant
Standard through ?” Yes—one person : Dr McGuven.
The Presbyterian says :—“ David Wilson,
addicted to drinking, was found last week in an un-
consious (sic) state and died the same evening." [111!!]
The Canterbury Times has “ Fashion Gossip,
by Eve." Now what could Eve be expected to know
about fashions, when—but we will not pursue the
subject.
A Petersham candidate for municipal honours
solicits the “vote and interests ” of the ratepayers. We
merely ask whether this is defective English or defec-
tive modesty.
Glass type is being employed in Paris for news-
paper printing. Perhaps that is the reason of the clear
transparency of the little fictions perpetrated by the
Parisian press.
Mr. C. J. Byrnes, the Mayor of Parramatta,
entertained the aldermen at a banquet on the opening
of the new Council Chambers last Friday. Champagne
flowed, &c., &c.
Some years ago, when the military force sta-
tioned at Dublin was about to be reduced, there was a
great outcry. “Another injustice to Ireland,” was the
national lament.
The Presbyterian says:—“Rev. Dr. Barry
has announced to all men that he does not intend to
pay attention to certain instructions issued by Bishop
Barker." [!!!!]
A man advertising in the Tuppn’y Cook says :
—“ Lost, 13th January, shoe cramp, between Petersham
and Ashfleld.” What a very “ tenacious " man the
advertiser must be.
A huge joke ! The Government are having a
village laid out as a sanatorium—and a cemetery in
connection therewith, at the same' time —on the
Southern Eailwav line.
The Melbourne Herald says ;—“ The brass
bands contest in the Novelty Theatre was but poorly
attended, and the event does not seem to excite much
interest." Poor Fulton!
“ I’ve started an apiary,” said one magnate to
another at the Water Police Court last week. “Oh
have you,” rejoined the other. “And how many mon-
keys have you got for a start ?”
“ Let’s adjourn now over Wednesday,”
Said Cameron the bluff.
“ Oh, no,” cried Poole—“ no, no, I say —
I haven’t had enough 1”
A madman writes: “ The Irish Bishops gave the
Pope, in November, £BOOO from their flocks. Could this
be called a case of fleece.” [This item is evidently
meant for the Protestant M'Guven.]
Mr. Thomas Stapleton, and not Bertrand, is
the dispenser at Darlinghurst Gaol. On behalf of the
conflnees, we are glad to be able to make the correction
—for we are sure Mr. S. knows what to give them.
A lady in Parramatta gave birth to three at
once. Upon the introduction of the youngest daughter
to the new arrivals, she said (pointing to the biggest of
the three), “ Keep this one, ma—she’s best.” Mew !
A foot-race for a prize took place recently on a
Sunday in Brisbane. There is a hub-bub about it. Why
should Sunday thus be desecrated ? Why not left for
hatching insurance swindles, criminals frauds, &c.
“ A Lady ” writes : —“ Is not a clergyman sup-
posed to have a heart brimming over with charity, and
to love his fellowman ? Now, whom does Dr. M’Guven
love ?” Puzzler. [Correspondence invited on this
subject.—Ed., B.]
There is a Wesleyan undertaker not a hundred
miles from Sydney who was lately asked how business
fared with him. “ But poorly,” was his reply. “If it
would only please the Lord to take a few more of our
brethren—” A fact.
Splendid opening for any man or boy who wants
to commit suicide, in a certain office not many miles
from Macquarie Place. Three of the officials have died
within four months out of a staff of eight. The average
previously was one a year.
We notice by the papers that an old friend of
ours, Antonio Deleuse, has got married to Charlotte
Hope. We have been waiting for Antonio some time,
and now beg to say that we trust this little affair won’t
turn out a Deleusive Hope.
Another popular delusion shattered. We see by
the Otago Witness that Count Taaffe, the present
leader of the Austrian Ministry, is by descent an Irish-
man. And yet how many of us have been reared in the
belief that Taffy was a Welshman.
Who was the civic dignitary who, after the
worship of Bacchus on Sunday evening, drove through
an old suburban toll, and, when asked for payment,
said, “Toll’sh —toll’sh! Shoodn’t ask toll’sh fro’
people com’g fro’ Divine Service ?”
West Maitland is a constituency always favour-
able to the learned profession. Mr. Cohen, the ex-
M.L.A. for that electorate, was a member of the Bar,
and the same may be said of its present representative,
Mr. Fullford, “ What will you take ? ”
“ Wrecker.” in the Cumberland Mercury,
says : “A Press Club, bossed by ‘ Nathan ’ and
‘ Liryc,’ is scarcely likely to be a success.” Of course
we have just the faintest—and only the faintest —idea
as to who “ Liryc ” is; but who in thunder’s “ Nathan ?”
We learn from the Morning Post that in Ber-
lin things are troubled; and also that “the confine-
ment of two ladies who are highly connected has ex-
cited much comment.” This kind of thing only excites
comment in Sydney under exceptional circumstances!
The next “ call” to the Upper House will be
“all for Joseph!” His rose-water speech at the Con-
ference dinner, at the Exchange, quite made the knights
blush. Parkes and Eobertson winked at each other —
all for Joseph! Which, we suppose, means, not for
Joe!
A man drank a quart of brandy without taking
the pot from his lips, in Hobart Town, for a wager of
£5. He dropped dead immediately afterwards. That
must have riled him a bit; but what seriously annoyed
him was that the other man walked away with the
money.
Hot air from St. James’s. —The idol of the
church is Allwood!
The Cumberland Band, which gained second
prize at the recent band contest in Sydney, appeard in
a new uniform (blue, with silver facings) in honour of
the Governor’s visit to Parramatta, on Wednesday.
The effect was striking, and their music at the races
was delightful.
A boy read this ad. in the Evening Climax
“Wanted, a stout boy as apprentice; liberal wages.
N. Melville and Son, Kingston, Newtown.” Then he
said, “ I was a stout boy when I went there.” There
he stopped. He was an intelligent boy, and had read
the law of libel.
A butcher recently relinquished business at Bur-
wood because, it is alleged, of his inability to supply
ox-tails. He said he could not make the ladies of that
fashionable suburb understand that each animal had
one tail only, and he wasn’t going to stand the slanging
they gave him any longer.
“ Who (asks a correspondent) are the owners of
the houses in various parts of the city that the Mayor
has ordered to be demolished ?” Why be inquisitive,
the public don’t want to know, because so many of their
pet charitable men could be named.
'Spose we make Bam,
An epigram,
On Shrill—that feeble joker.
But no, this time.
For pungent rhyme.
We own we are a broker.
Morehead, the Postmaster-General for Queens-
land, jibbed because he wasn’t called upon to respond to
the toast “Our Distinguished Guests." Quite, right,too,
as Melbourne was twice represented in the honor, whilst
there was more head in the junior colony.
The Barwon Argus is singularly frank. In
talking of this paper (whilst kindly giving The
Bulletin a gratuitous ad.), it says:—“Brown paper,
tea paper, sheepskin, greenhide, colonial pine boards,
Hobart pailings (sic), or hardwood will do us.” We
think so, too—especially the Hobart “ pailings.”
One of the Ministry went into a Queen-street store
Brisbane, to pay an account. The clerk did not hurry
himself to make out the receipt, so Blow-hard exclaimed,
“ D it, man, make haste, lamin a hurry.” The
clerk said, “We do not allow swearing in this estab-
lishment." B. H. gasped and left very suddenly,
Robert the Devil, whose recent performances on
the English turf stamp him as being one of the best horses
of this or any other age, was offered for sale after his
victory in the Cesarewitch, but there was no bid for him
—at least there was one, as a circus proprietor offered
£3O for him. This was of course Ashton— or his ghost.
Pity someone on the staff of the Herald is not
better up in the aphorisms of great men —to know that
it was Talleyrand, and not Lord Palmerston, who de-
fined dirt as being matter in the wrong place. Also that
Pembroke is not in North Wales, but in the extreme
sonth-west of it. One would have thought the geo-
graphical knowledge of a printer’s devil equal to this.
The temperance alderman in a suburb “over
the ferry,” who is a milkman —and, by the way, isn’t it
rather comical to find a milkman representing the cold
water interest ? —is a candidate for the local Mayoralty.
Should he obtain the dignity, it is to be hoped that he
will, in deference to it, discard the milk-cart and don a
coat. ‘ ‘ '
“ Lord Beaconsfield suffers from increasing vio-
lence in his gout. His secretary,' the new peer. Lord
Eawton, still remains with him. and it is supposed he
will be bis heir.” How well does the time-honored
proverb chacun a son gout apply here ;f-at least so said
a well-known journalist of this city, and he ought to-
know. - -j ,
There is a certain Sydney Magistrate who, when
he adjudicates in Court, always brings with him enough
law books (most of them obsolete) to load a two-ton
brig: and yet when he writes a letter he requires a pen
warranted not to splutter, and the whole family to
guide his hand and tell him when to put in the capital
letters.
A girl once threw herself into the water at
Middle Harbour. When picked up a paper was found in
her pocket on which was inscribed these words: —“ I
destroy myself because mother told me I was useless.
Take my body to the bone-factory—it may be of some
use there!" [N.B. —This item has been boiled down.—
Ed. B.]
Free thought has gone carefully “bung.”
In an editorial labelled “ farewell,”—Shrill ingenuously
remarks: —“ This paper has now been in existence for
twelve months, and this issue offers an appropriate
opportunity for us to say ‘ Farewell.’" Here an hysteri-
cal tear fell upon the page, and Bam began the next
paragraph.
The prettiest girl in Parramatta, who is an in-
corrigible flirt, has at length had a taste of poetical
justice. After turning the heads of all the young
fellows for twenty miles around, she became fascinated
by an Adonis, who has cruelly jilted her for a plainer
damsel with a longer purse. The jilted one reads poetry
in the Park.
Alas for posthumous fame ! -Egles says that
not much is heard of the statue to Sir Eedmond Barry,
but his efflgv is at the Waxworks, Melbourne. And the
Collingwocd larrikin performing the part of cicerone to
his mate from the rag-store, indicates the figure with
dirty thumb over his shoulder, and says “ That’s him
as hung Ned!”
As an instance of journalistic success, it may be
remarked that Mr. James Gordon Bennett, proprietor
of the New York Herald, is to have a new steam yacht
built for him at a cost of £20,000. This much we know
for certain. The exact dimensions and price to be paid
by Mr. Eubie for his new yacht, the Express, we are
unable to giye.
A J.P. the other day arrived on the Bench, and
was just about to take his seat, when a horrified ex-
pression overspread his countenance, and he gave a
tremendous start. “ Why, what’s the matter ?” cried
his three confreres. “ I’the lef-the thoof of mythe
mouth athe home.” And ho was gone like a harlequin
through a vampire-trap.
A certain very much respected old gentleman is
a trustee of one of our public parks. At present he has
nothing better to do than to stick round the land he
rules and question the legal right and title of nurse-
maids, Ac., to walk on the grass plots instead of on the
paths. “ Good heavens, woman!” he always exclaims,
“ how came you there ?”
A question for settlement. —Is the Bathurst-st.
Column the bust of the Corporation, or of the Hyde
Park trustees ?
The estate of William Birks Ehodes, the Houn-
slow miser, who died a coujile of years ago, has just
been wound up, and has realised a sum of no less than
£78,000. This old party lived with his wife and two
daughters; and such Vas the Acerbity of disposition of
the quartette, that they were known by the neighbours
as “ the four crossroads.”
The Bench, not a million miles from Gundagai—
but it wasn’t at Gundagai, for all that—was the othar
day obliged to adjourn a case brought before them,
neither of the magistrates being able to take the neces-
sary depositions. It is understood to be the intention
of the Government to raise two more men of the same
enlightenment to the Bench.
Two gentlemen, well known in the import line,
created a considerable sensation at a recent reunion at
a suburban Town Hall. Neither is quite certain as
to whether he was dancing upon his head or his
heels, and one of them asserts that while performing a
galop with a charming Camperdown belle, the floor
suddenly got up and hit him.
A little while ago an elderly Venus, with a little
money left to her by her deceased husband, married a
well-known young gentleman in the public service.
After a time he ran away from her. She hunted round
for him, and last week discovered her Adorns doing the
‘‘love in a cottage” business (with her former servant)
in a marine suburb. United again!
From Saturday’s Herald : —“ Detective Ward
denies that the man Hart, who was arrested at Echuca,
is a brother to Steve Hart.” From thelLvßE of the
same date :—“ It is stated by detective Ward that the
man Hart.lately arrested at Echuca, is a brother to the
once notorious Steve Hart.” May difference of opinion
never alter friendship. Houp-la !
“ An Auckland chemist has been trying a meat
diet of rats. He says they are cheap and plentiful.”
Thus the Canterbury Times. The chemist does not,
however, inform us whether the vermin are rattractive
to the palate. We suspect in any case the consumer
must be of a micerley disposition. [This item arrived
written on Government foolscap.]
A certain medicus of Parramatta lately took a
week’s holiday. Upon his return he went his rounds
of “ home scenes to him most dear,” and amongst them
Eookwood cemetery. He greets the gravedigger with
an enquiry as to business. “ Ay, slack, sir; but slack
indeed. There hasn’t been a burial from Parramatta
this week past.” Exit iEsculapius.
When Ravenswood was young, Reid (now pub-
lishing the Grazier, Wilcannia) ran the Miner. He
was served with a writ for libel, damages £lOOO, at the
instance of a solicitor named Stables; and a few hours
afterwards a flash of lightning gave the “ limb o’ the
law ” his quietus. Since this interposition of Provi-
dence, Queensland lawyers have been slow to trouble
pressmen.
The letter from his Excellency’s private secre-
tary, expressing Lord Loftus’s satisfaction at a pub-
lication, and advertised assiduously by the publisher, is
almost identical with the one that Mr. Bloxsome sent
Washington Soul, in re his Australian Belish. Could
Mr. Bloxsome have considered that what was sauce for
the goose—but we forgot, there is only one gander in
the arrangement.
“ Catherine Richards, a widow residing in Syd-
ney, has been in the habit of drinking two bottles of
schnapps and one of beer per diem. She is now dead.”
At her last gasp she looked round with a faint smile
upon the attendant policeman, and with a sigh of con-
tent ejaculated—“ I die schnappy.” She meant
“ happy," poor soul, but thellassociation of ideas was
too much for her.
An American journal, referring to the intended
departure of Mr. j. H. Parnell, brother of Mr. Parnell,
M.P., for Europe, says that that gentleman’s great
peach orchard in Alabama is a field of 250 acres contain-
ing about 80,000 trees. In a good season Mr. Parnell
gets 100,000 boxes, or a million and a halt pounds
weight of peaches. Each brother is therefore equally
proud of his sneaches.
The Christian Weekly, like the Herald
and all the other religions prints, is becoming sensa-
tional. It says that “a royal lady is to be the new
leader of fashion, and is going to check the immodest
tendency of costumes of late, A late hour is what is
meant, we suppose, in which case we are much surprised
at our Christian brother. Can’t he keep to his own
gown, and let the fashions alone ?
John Blackburn, a potter, was fined ,£2O, at
Hanley, for kissing a girl 17 years of age against her
wish.
John B. was a potter at Hanley,
Who behaved in a way far from manly.
He kissed her, he did.
And was fined twenty “ quid,”
Which he “ took out ” in jail then at Hanley.
Our frisky contemporary, the Distress,
savagely observes: —“ The Melbourne Advocate warmly
and justly denounces the growing practice of Catholics
accepting invitations to weddings, pic-nics, banquets,
&c., &c., on Fridays, and there breaking publicly —
scandalously*—the secondcommandmentof their Church.
If gentlemen nearer home will not take this hint they
may hear from us again! ” We thought you’d catch it,
Dan! •
The circulars convening the anniversary festival
service of the Church of England Temperance Society
at St. Andrew’s Cathedral contained the following
announcement: —“ Books of the service and hymns to
be used can be obtained at the Church of England Book
Depot, price 2d. Priority of entrance to the Cathedral
will be given to those holding books of the service.” In
other words, although it doesn’t sound well, “ admission
tuppence.”
: Overheard —a fact. —Scene, the Museum, Sun-
day. Enter couple from the country. She ( loq.): “Eh
John, what’s that?” He: ‘‘That, lass? That’s a
akilliton of a whale.” She: “ He’d be a ugly customer
to meet i’ the bush, John.” He: “ Them doau’t live i’
the bush; them lives i’ the warrter." She : “ Lor !
does’em now, John?” ' He: “Aye, e’s the cove that
Jonah lived in.” Who can say that tins lady did not
learn something by her visit ?
A wealthy squatter, residing not a hundred miles
from St. Peter’s Church, Cook’s Kiver, made a wager
with a young lady, of six pairs of gloves to one pair of
worked slippers. The former lost, but repudiate pay-
ment. • Several of the young lady’s friends and admirers,
hearing of the circumstance, at once sent her six pairs
in an elegant Sachet, and invited the squatter gent, to
send the value of the gloves (305.) to the funds of the
Soujl'Kitchen. Hot coffee for squatter!
William Hughes threatened the other day to
give Mary Hughes a “pasting,” the quarrel originating
about bill-posting. On Mary informing the Bench she
was Hughes to his violence, William was thereupon
bound over for three months, on which he remarked
that he could easily get the sureties, as he had been
hoarding for some time. It was generally understood
that William’s eccentricity became pronounced only
when he got three sheet posters in the wind.
It was in Parramatta. A monumental mason
had a piece of land on which he reared his bnrial edi-
fices, in stately rows, for sale. A well-known doctor
wanted a block on which to build a house, and by the
workings of a mysterious sympathy found himself in
treaty for the mason’s acre. The mason sent his price
by letter —“£6OO, not including the stock of tombstones.”
How much the doctor bid for these we haven’t heard;
but no doubt they passed on a reduction, as it was all in
the trade.
The Port Adelaide News, which has had two
libels in eight months, is now coming out twice a week.
Old Derry works thfe thing now almost on lady comps.,
and so as to be all right and proper, he never enters the
case-room unless unaccompanied by female members of
his family. His foreman is nearly four-score, and the
youngest apprentice to the jobbing, 63. Before going
to bed old Derry piously ejaculates the same thing every
evening—“ Only let it go hp another 150 and I’ll get a
new hat.”
There are some wags at Parramatta. A young
lady who frequents a shady nook opposite Government
House, in the Park, dropped a love-letter. It was
picked up. The words were brief: “Ma and Pa will
not hear of it; and as for myself, I must say I pre-
fer to remain as I am.” The wags wrote instead : “Pa
and «Ma -will be delighted. To be poor and plain is,
after all, not much of a drawback, they think, for a
Parramatta man. As for myself, I suppose I must."
The sequel is to come.
From Berry’s secretary to Melville -. —“ Petty’s
Hotel, Church-hill, Sydney, 18th January, 1881.—Sir,
Mr. Berry desires me to say that, on mature considera-
tion, he thinks that himself and Mr. Vale must decline
the proposed meeting, for the reasons which Mr. Berry
stated yesterday.” This is signed “ Hammon Webb.”
Well, all we can say is there is not much Hemmony
about Mr. Webb’s grammar.
A young Mecklenburg noble went recently to
Monaco with an old family servant, and won at a sitting
£12,000. Next morning the old and trusted servant was
missing. He had taken the money to the youngnoble’s
home to prevent the latter gaming it away. By this act
of generalship, the old retainer earned the undying
gratitude of the young noble’s relations in Mecklenburg.
The expressions made use of by the young noble himself
when he subsequently found out that his family had
“ snavelled” the money are not on record.
If republicanism should ever get the ascendancy
in her empire during her lifetime. Queen Yiotoria will
become plain Mrs. Wettin. So says Theodore Martin.
If this really comes to pass—and it may—the comic
papers would rhyme something in this style :
There was an old lady named Wettin,
Who lived in a quiet way at Stettin ;
She said she had been
Many years back a queen.
Ere Bradlaugh and Parnell did get in.
Some time ago the whole machinery of Govern-
ment House was put in motion in order to inform
Washington Soul that his sauce was the sole sauce that
the aristocratic stomach of His Excellency could ever
endure, and now the same expense and trouble has been
cheerfully borne in order to inform the general public
that the Australian is the very best magazine Lord
Loftus has ever read since the days of Pharoah. Any
other little novelty like a gubernatorial puff ? If so
bring it right along—Eeggie Bloxsome, agent. All orders
&c.
In a recent leader in the Freeman —and a
regular snorter, too—Mr. Butler says;—“ When the
Herald makes the next attack on the Catholics she
will do_ well to look a little nearer home, and consider if
it is wise to throw stones from a glass house.” Well,
with all respect to Mr. 8., we do not see that there is
much consideration required : anyhow, it is both wiser
and safer to throw stones from a glass house than in
one. About the safest house, however, to throw stones
from is M’Elhone’s coign of vantage—the Legislative
Assembly.
There was much chuckling and clucking when
the Clerk read Mr. M’Elhone’s letter of resignation, in
the Municipal Council last week. The beam of hilarity
shone like a starry meteor in Dan’s eye, and there was
a pucker upon the classic phiz, of J. D. Young. Con-
gratulations were cheerily exchanged, and John Davies
and thfe- Mayor drank to future serenity in the flowing
goblet of ginger-beer. “ The sperrit o’ disgust is gone
from amongst us," cried Alderman Green. The old
fellow meant “discord,” but the good intention was
“ all there."
“ The announcement in English newspapers,”
says an exchange, that a company has been organised for
the purpose of lighting Jerusalem with gas, shows the
march of civilization.” So it does, but we wonder who
will get the contract for supplying the Jerusalem muni-
cipality with the relays of lamplighters. Since the
Jews residing there are apt to regard everything
organized by the “ Christian dogs ” as in direct contra-
vention to their religious tenets, there will, during the
first quarter*s lighting, be more broken glass and dead
lamplighters strewing the thoroughfare, than even
sleeping dogs and broken boulders.
At a recent meeting of the Municipal Council,
Alderman J. D. Young remarked: —“ There were (sic) a
certain class of gentlemen who did not like to look back
upon what they had been. They had not always been
property-holders, and it appeared to be no advantage to
put beggars on horseback, as they were sure to ride to
the devil.” We have not quoted this merely to pick a
flaw in the worthy Alderman’s grammar, but simply to
let him know that we don’t entirely agree with him.
It is not infrequently the case that when you put a
beggar on horseback he immediately makes for Mac-
quarrie-street or—a-hem!—the Town Hall.
The Freeman’s Journal says:— “Great
indignation is_ expressed in Melbourne at the disgrace-
ful overcrowding on the Sydney and Adelaide steamers.
One traveller, describing the scene on an Adelaide
steamer, declares that the boat had only fifty-five
births, and carried over 100 saloon passengers.” That
journal, however, does not explain it boys or girls pre-
dominated ; _ nor, in this startling increase of the
population, if there were any twins and triplets. And
again, the calm way in which the writer puts it —“ only
fifty-five births” amongst “100 saloon passengers!”
But then!—nothing surprises the Freeman people!
It is reported that the Rev. Charles Clark has
gone over to the Eoman Catholic Church. Now this is
a sad blow to all the Protestant denominations. Mr.
Clark was known so far and wide for the depth of his
devotion, the supreme contempt he had for “filthy
lucre,” and for the munificent charity which he
showered on mankind. He is a man who lives and
breathes the model of a saint. Piety he revels in, and
with sanctimoniousness he is clothed as with a gar-
ment. We cannot at this moment inform our readers
in what exact degree the Eoman Catholic Church will
benefit by Mr. Clark’s conversion.- but we will venture
to state that the rev. gentleman himself will not prove
a loser by “ crossing the floor a loser, we mean, of
course, in—humph!— piety.
Anyone who wants a quiet time should go to
Forbes-street, between the numbers 120 and 200. There
everyone has a piano, and there, also, every piano is
afflicted with an incurable malady. All the pianos
suffer from debility, but some of them have in
addition asthma, rheumatism, or consumption. Every
lovely woman living in that part of Forbes-street is
music-mad. One young lady with a nice soprano voice
invariably “starts life” about midnight, by which hour
the thirty-nine pianos which have been banged at since
dinner time have ceased to poor out on the balmy air
their weird strains. Her pet song is “ Let me dream
(or scream, it’s uncertain) again." A petition will be
sent up to the Chief Commissioner of Police unless so me-
one marries the girl shortly.
Our unameliorated brethren. A fact. The
other day a couple of blackboys, accompanied by a suite
of gins, picanninnies, dogs, etc., arrived at a well-known
hotel in Inverell. They were at once relegated to the
culinary department, where, by a series of gastronomic
feats, they ‘distended the abdominal portions of their
dusky anatomies to the fullest possible extent; after
which one of the “ boys” was set to pump some water
into the bath. When he had finished, the manager
gave him a shilling, whereupon the following “ yabber”
took place :—Blackboy (looking at coin): “ What that
for?” Manager For pumping the water.” B. B. :
“Tank you, sah; I hope I neber see you ’gen." M.:
" Why, you lazy scoundrel, that’s twice as much as you
deserve.” 8.8. (indignantly): “ByC—! denyoutink
I’se b — new chum!”
There is great trouble at our Hotel de Yille.
The worthy Mayor who, as is well known, is a staunch
teetotaller, was the other day asked by a couple of
aldermen who had brought friends to look over the
Town Hall, for the keys of the cellar. Mr. Harris gave
the keys to Mr. John Davies, with a request that the
C.M.G. would hand them to the aldermen and their
guests, but the aldermen said they considered them-
selves to be insulted by reason of the fact that the keys
came to them not direct from the Mayor, but through
the medium of a third person. The end of the matter
was that the aldermen refused to “ worry” the Mayor’s
liquor (which, by the way, is of the most excellent de-
scription), and sent out for some on their own account.
We learn that an aldermanic cellar, in opposition to the
Mayor’s, has now been established in George-street,
and that some of the aldermen mean to regard their den
as the corporation refreshment-room.
The Evening News claims, as it is well known,
Sromptness in supplying news to the public. In Mon-
ay’s issue it can justly lay claim to this ; for we learn
through the medium of its columns that Miss Maggie
Forde, the actress, is twins. In a paragraph labelled
“Opera House,” we read:—“The present company is
exceedingly well able to produce extravaganza, being
gceptionally strong in singing and dancing ladies. Be-
ies the principals in the piece. Miss Blanche Murray,
iss Brown, and Miss Maggie Forde contribute to both
departments. Miss Forde introducing some novelties
Which were highly meritorious.” Then in another,
headed “Gaiety,” we are told: —“Miss Maggie Forde
as the servant girl, must be excepted from this —her
acting was really excellent —and,, so must Mr. E. W.
Marshall, who played the uncle very creditably.” We
always thought Maggie was smart, but now we are con-
vinced that she must be little short of what Joe Eck-
ford terms a “ femomena.”
WE WANT MORE RAIN.


This is how a storm, occurring on the continent
of America, was anticipated seventy-two Lours in
England by the electric spark. The. Telegram, which
was sent from New York, ran :—“A dangerous srorm is
crossing, and will probably arrive on the British, Nor-
wegian, and French coasts between the 5th and 7th,
precsded and attended by rain, snow in the north and
south-east, backing to the north-west gales. Atlantic
very stormy north of latitude 40.
‘ ‘ I have analysed an original packet of Taening,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of* pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
acd harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable,
i recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet. —Karl Theodors JStaigeb, analytical
chemist ’ ’ —Advt.
“ Balmain, July 12, 1830.—I have no hesitation
in saying that Eandersou’s Fodophylliu Lozenges are
the best and most effectual aperient medicine I have
ever taken, and X, with continence, state my opinion,
that any person giving them a trial will be fully con-
vinced of their value as a Family Medicine to keep in
the house ; especially where there ave children thev are
invaluable.—Henry Phillips.;—To Messrs. Elward
Eow and Co., Sydney.”—Advt.
The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Progress is now first favourite for the Geelong
Cup.
The Kogarah races have been postponed till
the 29th.
The Carthonas beat the Orientals last Saturday
by 18 runs.
The Australian eleven defeated the Dunedin team
by 44 runs.
A prize fight took place at Botany on Sunday
morning last.
The Gulgong Racing Clnb takes place on the
!Bth and 29tn.
. “ Augur” tips Progress or Western Princess for
the Gulgong Cup.
Some very “ crooked ” things took place at the
recent Auckland races.
The injury to Bonnor’s leg will incapacitate him
from playing for sometime.
The Australian Eleven defeated the Invercargill
22 in. one innings with 82 runs to spare.
A handicapper for the whole of New Zealand is
wanted. It is proposed to try Australia.
The Carthona C.C. cleared ,£l2 by their excur-
sion, thanks to their energetic secretary.
Dave Gregory has resigned from the Selection
Committee, being unable to attend the practices.
Lesley Park got 4 wickets for 8 runs against the
Carlton Club. Payten bowled well, but had no luck.
Tickets for the umpire’s boat on the occasion of
the race between Hanlan and Trickett cost £2 2s. each.
The champion runner of Charters Towers is
Head, and the crack runner of Townsville is Willmett.
Mr. L. A. Pereira, of the “ Adamastor” sweeps,
Melbourne, was lately prosecuted and fined £2O with
costs.
The friends of Cobford, the British Columbia
champion oarsman, are anxious to make a match with
Hanlan.
The“ Annie Hill,” a Tasmanian-built schooner,
won the Champion Race at the Lyttleton (N.Z.)
Regatta.
The big Dunedin (N.Z.) meeting takes place on
February 24, 25, and 26; and the Wanganui on March
10 and 11.
Joe Seale scored 83 for the Second Carltons
against the Second Alberts. Joe is a very good second
eleven man.
The Carcoar Jockey Club have decided to hold
their race meeting early in April, with two handicaps of
100 so vs. each.
• Great preparations are being made at Auckland
for the regatta to be held there on the 29th of the
present month.
An interprovincial cricket match, between
Nelson and Wellington (N.Z.), resulted in a draw in
favour of the former.
Sir Hercules Robinson’s King Cole Skittle-
sharper filly, imported from Australia to N.Z.—has
been named Legerdemain.
The conditions of the Tamworth Annual Races
Maiden Plate have been altered for horses that have
never won a prize exceeding £2O.
Consultation sweeps are increasing. There are
two on the Anniversary Handicap at Parramatta, and
several on the next Sydney meeting.
Our Boys’ Cricket Club have got out a very neat
and convenient programs of their matches for the
season. The idea is worth adopting.
A certain butcher’s clerk in the country knows
Low to make racing pay. On 30s. jper week he supports
himself, two racehorses, and a trainer.
The heat recorded times from Putney to Mort-
lake are —Tarryer, 22m. 555. ; Hawdon, 22ra. 575.;
Higgins, 23m. ss. ; Renforth, 23m. 15s.
What clnb does Jack Urquabart belong to?
He played with the Alberts last Wednesday, and on tbe
Saturday following with the Carlton Second.
The Sydney Gun Club contest for the Committee
Cup, value £lO, to be won twice, resulted in a victory
for Mr. F. Gannon ; Mr. G. Lee Lord, second.
Lone Hand, now running in Maoriland, is in
grand form, but is as difficult to ride as ever. Tommy
Corrigan appears to be the only jockey who can manage
the horse.
Bonnor entered for the Sheffield Handicap while
he was in England, but the team would not allow him
to run. He was handicapped seven yards from the
lowest man.
It is quite probable that the Janet and the
Tauiwha will pay a visit to Port Jackson shortly with a
view to try the mettle of our Sydney Yachts in an
ocean race. We are ready.
Blue Gown, the famous winner of the English
Derby of 1881, who was purchased by Mr. J. R. Keene,
of Kentucky, America, died on the steamer, Victoria,
while on his way to the States.
The Waverley Cricket Ground has been taken
by the owner for building purposes. It is a pity for
cricket’s sake to lose a ground ; and the sample of the
Adelaide brew will be sadly missed.
The Parramatta Bowling Clnb gave its first
annual dinner on Thursday night, at Wahlow’s Wool-
pack Inn, Mr. C. J. Byrnes, president, in the chair. A
very enjoyable evening was passed.
Ross’s protest as to a foul in his first match with
Trickett should have been dismissed. It made no
difference as to the result, and the referee could not
have seen it according to all accounts.
The trustees of the Association Cricket Ground
might have been seen on Saturday night examining the
turf in the closed thoroughfare of King-street. The
corporation will have to look to their laurels.
Mr. Macnamara has succeeded in forming a
first-class football team, comprising the best players in
the colonies. They are to play matches in the colonies,
and take their departure for England in May—so Jack
says.'
A cricket match was played last Saturday be-
tween the Warrembah C.C. of Hunter’s Hill and the
Elsinore C.C. of Macdonald Town on the latter’s ground,
and it resulted in a win for the former by 1 wicket and
31 runs.
The Hon. W. J. Clark’s cutter, Janet, which
won the Intercolonial Yacht Race at Melbourne, was
built in Emerald Hill, and the launching took many
days, as the boat had to be drawn by slow stages from
the carpenter’s yard to the river.
A bicycle race came off on Saturday afternoon
on the Military Road, North Shore, between J. H.
Chapman and H. Frost, for £5 a-side : distance one mile.
Frost was the favourite in the betting, but Chapman
won the race easily in 3 min. 20 secs.
A match on Moore Park, on Saturday, between
the Perseverance and Kent C.C., resulted 'in a victory
for the former by 7 runs, the scores being 37 and 30.
The batting of Menser (11), and the bowling of Chip-
piudale and Conlon were remarkably good.
The Terrara races took place* on Friday last,
with the following resultsLadies’ Purse, Strathmore;
The Cup, Macaroni, The Fool, Darkey ; Argyle Plate,
Strathmore; Bachelors’ Bag, Macaroni; Picnic Race,
Macaroni; Welter Race, Heirloom; Member’s Plate,
Macaroni.
As the portion of King-street near “ the Corner”
is closed from vehicular traffic, it would be a good plan
it Ned Punch put seats out in tbe road. The constable
would be saved a lot of trouble in keeping the pathway
clear, and the “boys” could talk about Laycock with-
out official interruption.
The TV indsor C.C. lost their first match this
season last Saturday against Onr Boys. Scores ;
Windsor, 21; Onr Boys, 53. Varley and Noble trun-
died too well for the Windsors, taking 5 wickets for 9
runs, and 3 for 11, respectively. Thorne and Davison
made 13 each for Our Boys.
Intercolonial practice will be held on the Asso-
ciation Ground three days every week. Adding the
Wednesday or Monday for matches, this will leave two
days a week for Club practice. At £3O a year as the fee
for each club, a day’s practice is estimated to cost at
this rate something like 10s.
The Liverpool 2nd eleven played the Carlingford
2nd eleven a one innings’ match, on the 22nd. Scores —
Liverpool, 102; Carlingford 47. On the same date, Mr.
Miller and Mr. Hatton put up as aldermen, the favorite
being Mr. Miller, and the winner scored exactly 102—
the same score as the Liverpool cricketers.
The projected big trotting match between Mr.
Johns’ Native Cat and a horse to be named by Mr. Kirk-
wood, of Christchurch, N.Z., has collapsed. On the
day fixed for the second deposit, and the nomination of
the dark horse, Native Cat’s backer staked his £5O,
hut Mr. Kirkwood sent no word, and has thus forfeited
his first deposit.
“ Mnssle-worship” is in the ascendant in
Canada since Trickett’s defeat. The freedom of the
city is to be conferred upon Hanlan. It is probably
lucky that this determination has been arrived at pre-
vious to his race with Laycock. We can now see why
Hanlan dreads another race; he does not want to return
to Canada a beaten man.
The Advance Clnb of Morpeth and the Albions
of Maitland concluded the match for the Waddy Chal-
lenge Cup on the Albion ground on Saturday, when the
Maitland club succeeded in defeating their opponents
by 94 runs. A dispute arose concerning an objection
against one of the Albion players, but it is to be hoped
that it will be amicably settled.
t A match took place on Saturday on the Surrey
United Ground, between the Warwick and the Surrey
United Clubs, resulting in a victory for the former, who
made 69 runs, the total obtained by the Surrey United
C.C. being 22. Ogilvie, the Warwick bowler, secured
8 wickets for 3 runs, and A- Bannerman was dismissed
leg-before-wicket, for two runs.
A late cablegram to the American press announ-
ces that Hanlan, who has been taking it easy in Erin’s
Isle, states that, as he is desirous of satisfying every-
body before returning home, he will row R. W. Boyd
for £5OO a side two weeks after his race with Laycock.
It is, however, stated that Boyd asks for a longer time,
which Hanlan is unwilling to give.
The Carlton Second met the Eastern C.C. last
Saturday, and defeated them. Each team brought its
own umpire, but the Easterns objected to the “only
Mac,” who came out to win for the Carltons. The
latter team did not object to the Eastern umpire, who
enlightened the field during the afternoon by new and
original interpretations of the laws of cricket.
A tinge of romance pervades the doings of our
representatives in England. The downfall of Trickett,
the victories of Laycock, the friendship of the some-
time opponents, are features of intense interest, but for
reel pathos and dog-like fidelity, we cannot get over
Jack Thompson sleeping alongside the boats those cold
winter nights, and then losing his good “ sugar.”
It, was rather a take-down for the University
C.C., coming hack from Melbourne wreathed in victori-
ous laurels, to be defeated by the Petersham Club. The
latter got 88 runs, of which Roberts, the new candidate
for Intercolonial honors, made 26; the University Club
made 59 only. They played with almost their full
strength, the absentees being Coates, Sly, and R. Teece.
The Ist Warwicks .defeated the Surrey United
C. on Saturday last. Alec Bannerman was given out
l.b w. for two runs. He did not seem satisfied. J.
Ogilvy, of the Warwicks obtained the following average
against the Surreys, viz: 48 balls, 6 m. 0., 3 runs, 8
wickets. This player is deserving of some notice by
the selection committee. He is a good bowler and also
a good bat.
Here is something for the imitation of onr
athletes:—At the late athletic sports at Carrick-on-
Suir, Mr. P. Davin, tbe celebrated Irish athlete, jumped
6ft. 2Hn., the jump having been measured from the
centre of the bar to the ground, the bar having been
tested with a spirit-level. This is an unparalled feat,
and exceeds by lin. Mr. Bavin’s great jump at Kil-
kenny of 6ft. 1 jin.
A match was played on Moore Park on Saturday
last between the Excelsior C.C. and the Pioneer C.C.,
which resifited in an easy victory for the Excelsior by 20
runs. The Excelsiors in their first innings scored 48
and the Pioneers 28. The batting of Dowling, 19, and
Adlnrd, 9. for the Excelsiors was very good—as also that
ofKflox, 11,for their opponents. The bowling of Cosgrove
and Dowling for the Excelsiors, and Knox and Withers
for the Pioneers, was very good.
It has been suggested that Billingsgate, at
present the best mile horse in N.Z., should be sent over
this way to measure strides with our cracks at that
distance. He is the property of Mr. Walters, of Auck-
land, well known to many racing men in Sydney, and is
announced foi; sale, owing to the owner having a large
stud. Last season Billingsgate, started 26 times, was
first on 10 occasions, second on 7, third on 6, and un-
placed on 3. This season ho has only been beaten once,
although he has started about teu times.
Trickett’s second race with Ross resulted in an
easy victory for the latter. Although from the quiet
manner in which Trickett defeated him in the first race,
a victory for the Australian might reasonably have been
anticipated in the row-off, it must be remembered that
whilst Ross had improved in health Trickett had
suffered in condition. It is reported that he had a.
severe cold, and for some days before the'second race
had to undergo severe medical treatment; hence no one
should be surprised at the result. The time of the race
was 23 minutes 40 seconds.
Still greater suspense. Postponed, again on
account of the weather. These postponements should
favour Laycock, as his constitution and frame ought
to stand prolonged training better than the “little
sprat.” Elias is getting home-sick, and it will not be
long after his race with Hanlan before he sails for
Shark Island. Trickett may not be expected for
some time yet. It is quite probable that he will wait
till the spring, and pull Hanlan on Toronto waters. It
is not likely that Ned will return until after he endeav-
ours to retrieve his lost laurels.
Several of the American journals, aided by one
one or two second-rate English sporting prints, ore in-
dustriously trying to make it appear that when Laycock
rowed Rilej, the latter didn’t want to win. Says the
N. Y. Clipper of a late date: —“ Now that the big race
is over, it is probable that, if there is any money left in
the Australian camp, another match will be made be-
tween Laycock and Riley, in which event we may
expect that che Australian will learn something that he
probably not now aware of—just how good a sculler the
Saratoga man is when he is fit and “ means it."
The following have been selected to attend the
practices Messrs. Allen, A. and O. Bannerman, Evans,
D. and A. Gregory, Garrett, Geary, Hiddlestone, Jones,
Massie, Nunn, Roberts, and Wearne. It will be ob-
served that Roberts is selected in place of Hall as a
wicket-keeper, which is a wise substitution. Tindall is
left out, presumably on account of his present bad
form, but what has Sheridan done that his abilities as a
cricketer are to be so constantly ignored ? Davis, of
the Carlton C. C., also deserves a place; he is batting
remarkably wall, and, as a point, he has no equal on
this side.
A match was played at Eveleigh on Saturday,
January 22, between the Railway C. C. (of the Railway
Department) and the Calder C..C., which resulted in an
easy victory for the former by 63 runs, the scores being
96 and 33 respectively. For the Railways, W. Langley
22, Saddlier 17, and Douglas 12, were the principal
scorers. For the Calders, Walker played a plucky in-
nings, with a broken fineer, for 8, not out, being the top
score. The bowling of J. Sauuder and N. Cameron for
the E.C.C. was very effective, the former taking 5
wickets for 8 runs, and the latter 5 for 16 runs. Sparkes
also bowled well for the Calders.
Laycock’s successes, says the London Re-
feree, have completely upset the scientific sculling
, theorists. “ The Australian makes up for his all but
stationary seat by using sculls that are long inboard, of
the sort that went out when sliding full length became
fashionable. Ho must be a tremendously powerful
man, and he has set his strength and staying power
and the leverage of his sculls against the moderate
physique and sliding skill of his whilom opponents.”
By the way, statements made in the English sporting
papers to hand by the mail completely bear out the
remarks contained in John Thompson’s letter, pub-
lished by us last week.
A race was to have taken place on the Associa-
tion Ground last Saturday, between “Barney ” Keating
and Powell, 100 yards, for £2O a-side. The usual repre-
hensible delay occurred before starting, which the
trustees of the ground ought to remedy in future
events. Races are * badly conducted nowadays by the
people interested, and last Saturday’s was no exception.
At the last moment they had no starter, and Ned
Gregory consented to officiate. The pistol missed fire,
but away they went, and although Ned called them
back, they finished the race which was won by
Powell. There is some confusion about the matter.
The yacht-race for Commodore Gilchrist’s Cup
took place on Saturday, and resulted in a victory for
the Magic. Oa'y three yachts started -the Magic,
Oithona, and Pleiades. The latter gained a favourable
position through the filing start. The Magic led
throughout the race, but the excellence of the handicap
sustained the interest to the end. The handicap was
—Magic, scratch; Oithona, 11,minutes; Pleiades, 27
minutes; and the official timing at. the finish was —Magic,
4h. 56m. 75.; Oithona, sh. 9m. 455.; Pleiades, sh. 24m,
10s. The Magic, therefore, won with 2min. 38see. to
spare from the Oithona, and Imin. 3sec. from the
Pleiades. Commodore Gilchrist, with Messrs. Dangar
and Caird, accompanied the race in the yacht Mistral.
An esteemed correspondent, writing from
Wagga, says:—“Joe Bennett, the billiard champion, is
one of four brothers, all of whom have been cham-
pions—John of Scotland, Alfred of the Midland Coun-
ties, and another brother of Kent. He and Cook. I be-
lieve, marriod sisters who were famous for their beauty.
Joseph Bennett wrote .a book on billiards, fedited by
Cavendish, and published by De la Rue at one guinea a
copy, which is considered the standard work on bil-
liards. Ever since his debut, which was made twelve
or fourteen years ago, he has been considered the pret-
tiest all-round player in. Scotland. The spot stroke is
not his forte ; but as on championship tables that stroke
is practically useless, the fact referred to will be no bar
to his retaining the championship.”
Laycock and Hanlan’s race is further postponed
until Monday, 14th February. It is a prescribed rule in
betting on all kinds of events that, in coses of post-
ponements, a Sunday intervening cancels all bets. Of
course the conditions of this present race are subject
to the, decision of the referee, but he is not likely to
over-ride the traditional custom. It is a noticeable fact
that Hanlan’s backers are clamorous for the withdrawal
of bets; so it doesn’t seem such a good thing after all.
Here is the rule :—“ If a match or a race be made for
any particular day in any week, and the day is changed
to any other in the same Week, all bets stand; but if
the day is changed, or the race postponed, to any day in
a different week, or if the slightest difference is mode
in the terms of the engagement, all bets made before
the alteration are void.”
Even “ Pendragon ” thinks that Trickett “ cer-
tainly deserved the credit .of thorough gameness.”
Says Pendragon : “ After passing Hammersmith,
the whilom “champion of the world" was hardly
a pleasant spectacle. His body, which was bare,
was of an unwholesome pipeclay colour, his face was
distorted and cadaverous, aud his ayes were fixed and
glassy as those of a seven-days-dead dog-fish. No man
could have tried harder, hut the vital principle seemed
lamentably deficient in his economy; and it was the old
story once again, that has been told so repeatedly in
the prize-ring and elsewhere, where very big muscular
men have failed to carry all before them at the first
onslaught. Directly the time comes tor them to make
a sustained effort, their size and weight are all against
them, aud increased exertion, so far from pulling them
round again, only sends them the mture rapidly to
pieces.”
One of the severest and best-contested fights of
modern times took place recently at Hardfortn. near
Manchester, between Leonard Metcalf and Harry
Sampson, both well known in their business connec-
tions in the city named. It arose out of a quarrel
between the men in the billiard-room of aWitherington
hostelry. One is an auctioneer and brother to a local
solicitor, whilst the other is an ex-merchant, and
manager to a blanket manufacturer. 'Both are well
knowu in sporting circles. Sampson, who is sft. 6m.
scaled 1621 b., and Metcalf when peeled was 1571 b., and
sft. Bjin. in height. Sampson was in fine condition and
appeared to be possessed of immense strength and
robustness. Metcalf, although the taller and with the
longer reach, was the lighter of the two; still he met
his match in little Sampson, who was elected favorite
in the betting, and there was no slight amount laid on
his chance at 6to 4. Old hands chuckled as to the
result, and no one thought that the pair would fight
like lions for an hour and a halt and then retire, neither
vanquished, as was the case. Both men were severely
punished. Twenty rounds in all were fought.
A two days’ match between the Carltons and
the Newtowns was commenced last Saturday on ihe
Association ground. The Carltons won the toss, and
.Geary and C. Bannerman opened the ball. Sheridan,
who was bowling well, got rid of Geary for 6, but M Crea
aud Charley made a fine stand. The latter was caught
by Sheridan off a wide ball by Garcon, for a steadily
played 37. He bats better than lately, but will never
regain his old form while he stoops so much to his play.
It must affect his hitting and also his sight of the ball.
McCrea made 44 by very fair play, and Hall played a
fine hitting innings for 26, but the innings of the day
was the 48 of Davis, who has as good a defence as ever,
but punishes much more than last season. Hemade mag-
nifleent drives, which gave an opportunity for good field-
ingto Daly, who has left the Warwicks and nowdons the
flannels (he didn’t don them on Saturday) for the New-
towns. Bob Fairweather was caught off his first ball,
and Park’s performance shows that, however easy his
bowling may appear, it wants watching. The innings of
the Newtowns opened disastrously, Wearne bowling
Sheridan first ball ;• but Scanlan played well, and when
time was called the score stood at 3 for 53. Scanlan, 12,
and Daly being the not out men.
At the committee meeting of the New South
Wales Coursing Club, on the 19th instant, it was decided
not to reduce the entry money for the Intercolonial
Stakes, but a forfeit was fixed for each, of the principal
stakes. Mr. A. H. Gardiner gives a piece of plate,
value 25 sovs., to be run for by the winners of tbe
Bathurst Derby and Oaks, and a silver lever watch to
the trainer of the winner. The Hon. P. Higgins givis
a piece of plate, value £25, conditions not yet, fixed, a
letter was read from the secretary of the Australian
Coursing Club, complaining of the extravagant entrance
money demanded for the Intercolonial Plate, and sng-
gesting also, with respect to all the principal stakes,
that the proposal to pay the full amount of entry money
upon application, should be modified, and that a forfeit
would bo sufficient, the balance to be made due a certain
time before the running. The following alterations
were made in the entry money of the amended pro-
gramme of 1881—Bathurst Cup, £lO 10s nomination,
balance 25th April; New Plumpton Stakes, £5 5s nomi-
nation, balance 18th May; Intercolonial Stake, £2l
nomination, balance 18th May; Woodstock Plate, f 5 Vs
nomination, balance 22nd June ; Champion Stakes, 155 s
nomination, balance 22nd Jure.
Some Extracts.
[FROM PARLIAMENTARY PAPERS.]
Stands Kiama where it did ! Said Parkes in
1866: “The time will come when this little town of
Kiama, partly from beauty of situation and salubrity of
climate, and partly from the elements of commerce,
with which Nature has enriched the surrounding
districts, will become a great and populous city, wbeu
its gentle hills will be terraced with palaces and crowned
with temples, and a prosperous population will thr mg
its spacious streets ; when that day comes. I hope that
among the names kept in remembrance in its civic halls
mine (H.P.) will not bo absent as one who was not un-
worthily associated with your district in its early days.”
Butter is still sold by the keg.
1866. The same David Buchanan and the same
Thomas Garrett as now ! Buchanan : “ The smallness
of the objection was characteristic of the very small
man (G.) who uttered it.’’ Ibid: “If anything offensive
should be withdrawn from this House, it should be the'
hon. member for Shoalhavea (G.)”
Ah odorous contrast. Period, 1863. William
Forster on John Robertsou. Forster : “ Passing on to
the Secretary for Lands, he must confess that lie was
in some sense, afraid to have anything to do with that
hon. gentleman, considering him to be something like
those disagreeable insects oce t->locally to be found in
bed-chambers, who, if pimued according to their
desserts, emitted a very unpleasant odour. Unless,
therefore, he could, figuratively speaking, lay hold of
that hon. membe" with a pur of feugs, and carry him
outside without the risk of any contact with what was
an extremely offensive , he would; have nothing to
do with him.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
Embers from which the sparks have fled—Old
maids.
A man writes his thoughts, a woman her im-
pressions.
How many enemies one is forced to have in the
world for friends!
The woman who is never jealous does not love,
or has a rudely impolite husband.
A fellow who had been to the circus spoke of his
girl’s cheek as a splendid side-show.
Nine times out of ten, friends from childhood
make abominable husbands and wives.
“ That hecatomb they call a wedding breakfast,
which celebrates the triumph of a rival.”
Woman, as a general thing, ends by restoring to
us what she had caused us to lose —a love of solitude.
Women are now wearing very elaborate and
expensive stockings. In fact, they have golden calves.
If a lady wants a favour of a boy, she praises him ;
of a young man, she hires him; of an oid man, she flatters
him.
A perfectly white woman, with a white husband,
has a Chinese baby. At least, the y oungster is a little
yeller.
Mdlle. Alice Grevy, daughter of the President,
will shortly be married to a wealthy landowner in Bur-
gundy,
Married life roaches its acme of happiness when
a man can smoke in bed without any complaint from
his wife.
“ I love men,” said Queen Christine, of Sweden,
“ not because they are men, but because they are not
women.”
The Princess of Wales has just appeared at th«
theatre iu brown gloves, which puts an end to black
gloves all over the world.
A woman never finds half as much satisfaction
in the sermon as she does in the grease-spot on the back
of the woman’s dress iu front of her.
There is a man whose name is Stealing, and, he
bates the name; but he took the sting from it far his
daughter by makifig her Christian name “ Worth."
When a woman wishes to “ cut ” another in the
street, she puts on a look that is straight and more un-
flinching than that of a headlight on a tram motor.
“Louise Campbell” is the author of the very
popular new pianoforte piece, “ The Doctor's Ride.” In
other words, the Marchioness of Lome is the com-
poser.
The fashionable kiss of the present day is of the
vehement order—a cross between the suction of a
force-pump and the explosion of an over-fermented
yeast-jug.
Wo notice in the papers a curious marriage.
Henry Jaokson to Helen Hunt. Are wo to assume that
the bridegroom was so hard up for a wife that he had to
Hel-eu hunt for one ?
A French widow is bewailing the recent loss of
her husband. “ I have at least one consolation,” she
sobs out, drying her tears ; “ at all events, I know where
he spends his nights now.”
Fill her bustles full of sponges,
bister’s going out to Sf.ar.o;
She will need their yielding softness.
When she tries the figure 8.
“ Gossip, that respecteth not persons, hath it
that an interesting event may shortly bo looked for in
the domestic circle of the Jersey lily. I’m sure,” says
Dagonet, “ that it will bo a little beauty.”
May and December ! Recently, the Right Hon.
W. N. Massey, M.P. for Tiverton, 71 years of age, was
married to a Mias Grant, aged 33; and the Earl of
Malmesbury, aged 74, to a Miss Hamilton, aged 21.
The day before a Turkish girl is married, she is
taken to the bath by her lady friends, and lamps of sugar
are broken over her head as a forecast of the sweets of
matrimony. A year or so afterwards her husband breaks
the whole sugar-bowl over her head.
Two sisters in Edinburgh have lived for many
years in one room without speaking to each other.
Neither is deaf or dumb, and no one knows the reason
of their silence. They have a chalk-line on the floor,
and do not encroach on each other’s domains.
A hysteriky creature, Deborah,
bat. admiring tbe crimson Aurora;
Whena mouse in distress
Ran under her dress —
She fainted and fell on the floor-ah.
The editor of a Victorian journal has been
married just one week. The subjects of his leading
editorials in that time have been: “ The‘Necessity of
Repose,” “Woman’s Influence,” “Harmony,” “Is
there a Hell P” “ Preparing for Death," “ Decay of
Parties,” and “ The Census of the Future.”
A lady having learned that her husband was in
the habit of visiting Miss D., called upon that actress,
and said, with freezing dignity, “Mademoiselle, you
should not have your trouble for nothing. Here are
■five francs for the visit my husband made you this
morning." “Madame,” replied the sprightly soubrette,
‘•give me ten, for he is coming back this evening.”
Here is a London story:—lt was at a garden
party. She was a pretty maiden of eighteen, and she
sat in the swing that hung behind the apple-trees. He
was a serious-looking gentleman passing by. “ Give me
a swing, please,” said she, archly. He, with a smile,
complied. She said afterwards that she didn’t know at
the time that the gentleman wham she had asked to
swing her was Mr. Justice Hawkins.
“ Vanity,” says Truth, “is not absolutely
confined to women, as the following little epitode will
prove. A young officer, wishing his feet to look their
best and smallest at a dance, had the solos, heels, and
toes of his socks cut away, and the remaining portion
firmly stitched to Lis patent-leather dancing-shoes. I
may state, as an extenuating circumstance, that he is
very young, and at present imagines himself a prey to
la grand passim. ”
To our Headers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
towu or conntry or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will b.e particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record iu The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interet-tiug items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JB. Y O U D A L E,
• FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
656 GEOEGE STREET, 656
• (Just below Liverpool-et.)
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen's Spring and Summer -wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits.
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
Comprising Coat, Vest.!
and Trousers, in all the .
favourite colours. Well V
cut and finished in the per bu '
best manner. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest shape; a use-
ful and durable suit
for business and ordi-
nary wear.
35s per
suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In light Homespuns and
thin Cheviots and Ban-
nockburns, for Spring
and Summer wear.
42s per
Suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits,
In Choice Oriental \
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat j per suit
checks and mixtures, j
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
{Specially Light and')
Durable, the materials I „„
having been well V eBBper
shrunk before being I BUU-
made up. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
D
fin Superior Orientan
| Tweeds, cut in the „„„
latest stylo, and I
finished the same as per BUlt ’
ordere I clothing. J
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
{Beautifully light in
Texture, permanent
colour and very dur
able in wear.
in')
4
38s 6d
per suit
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
("Special attention is in-')
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being j Genlomens
the best value, and }■ Orient
most perfect in stvle I Clothing,
and flash procurable |
in the colony. J
In Superior Tasmanian')
Flannel, thoroughly/ 1Q „
shrunk. f 188 5 “
China Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerotte Coats, 30s.
Gentlemen’s ("In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
Single Breasted )In Super Black Merino, 255.
Walking j In Blue Sergerette, 465.
Goats. Uu Black Sergerette, 455.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
( In fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
■J In Black Merino, 30s.
Cln Super Sergerette, 555.
("Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
J Super White and Fancy Maiulla, 8s fid.
(jllack Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
("In Superior, all Wool - )
] Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
C finished. )
C A Special Dress Over-'j
s,J
coat, silk trimmings,
and facings, beauti- i-
fully tight, and agree- I
able to wear. J
66s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
JJOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
{' 17s 6d, 8s
In neat fashionable Bd, 12s 6d,
Tweeds, neatly cut I 13s 6d, 15s
and well made, and f 6d, 17s 6d,
finished. 19s 6d per
J suit.
(In new shapes, very") 12s 6d to
J prettily trimmed, and > 19s 6d per
(. thoroughly well-made. J suit.
5s lid, 7s
fid, 9s 6d
per suit.
20s to 27s
fid per
suit.
24s 6d to
27s fid per
suit.
fln light and dark mix-'j
J tures, cut in fashion- | 21s fid to
■I able styles, well >to 23s fid
I trimmed and strongly | per suit.
L made. J
22s to 27s
fid.
In fine durable Esta-
mene Serge, admirably
adapted for school and
general wear.
r in rancy ana plain
I Drills, trimmed in
) new and effective
k. styles.
For dress wear, .extra
finished, superior
material, and excel-
lent shape.
In superior Navy Serges
with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
Tenths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
For dress wear
trimmed and made in
a superior manner.
)
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEOEGE STREET,
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot he sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINEET,
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPAETMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPAETMENT,
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABEICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PAEASOLS
and
UMBEELLAS.
'THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Eooms—
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
J now displaying. The importations
comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s fid. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
. ments, &c
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
variety of Braided Fichus froip 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
_ every size.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from wl*Lch Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrids and French, percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
_ other fabrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
INQ FABEICS.—Our range of
plain and pfitted Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
-4 ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to B|d; French Percales, from 9|d
to 14d; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Eoyal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to l id; French Cambrics, printed
„ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PAEA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s fid, 10s fid to
20s. We have in stock upwards
■ of 6000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk.
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
, all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
66
li
ACE CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDEEN
(the "HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OP LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
ANN I X
”5S
B R O T H E R S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLON!
FOE
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
To Country Gf.ntlf.men,—
We shall he most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the address:
MANNIX BROS.,
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
R. C. H AGOK’B
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
127 King Street.
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, ss, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OR POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JUST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OF BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESENTS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
DRESSMAKING.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN THE CITY.
TWEED SUITS TO ORDER, IN FIVE-BUTTON SAC PATTERN, 70s.
m
WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED TROUSERS, to order, 16s. 6d.
ALL GARMENTS WELL SHRUNK. EIT GUARANTEED.
MILLINERY.
Ladies will be much interested
WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ’’ of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for B}d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
JjJXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d., 16s. 6d.. 215., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS PITTED before FINISHED.
fJIHE
BEST AND LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL
482 (late 484) gkobgk street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
W All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 12s. 6d.
„ Suits 50s.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
R. L. LINDSAY.
XX
XXXX
XX XX
XX XX
XX XX
XX IN XX
XX PITT XX
XX STREET XX
XX AT XX
XX HORDERN’S. XX
XX XX
XX GENTLEMEN’S XX
XX GOOD XX
XX NIGHT SHIRTS XX
XX 2s. Ild., 2s. lid. only. XX
XX XX
XX Don’t forget the shop. XX
XX XX
XX COMB AND SEE XX
XX THESE NIGHT SHIRTS. XX
XX XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXYXYXYXXXYXXXX
JJON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements:—
First.—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marchl of the Southern Hemisphere.
c
HEAPEST
AND
BEST
GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
Note the Address —
t> f 127 KING STREET, 1 „ „
I Five Doors From Pitt-St. ) jn " b ‘
Business Announcements
[Legal. J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
"IF EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
W.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
Gr.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes. Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Monldings, Cases, Turnery, &c„ at lowest rates.
VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BOETHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperbangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brnshware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
T HARVEY,
W * WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hat AFjp Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS.
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
jgANDER LAZARUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORK STREET.
G. CHURCHWOOD,
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
OF
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES.
AND
SAUSAGE SKINS,
14-7. YORK STREET.
P
A T
R
N
INTI
Of Every Description
REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
* Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN."


Hotels, Sso.
Occidental hotel,
WYNYAED SQUARE,
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNEE, Proprietor.
(Late Ciob House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
w. ROBERTS,
MARKET STEEET,
POE FIEST-CLASS WINES, SPIEITS, AND
BEERS.
y C. WALKER
** * (Late COLLINS & EOACH),
iERATED WATERS, GINGER BEER,
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
Hotels, ,&c.
F O sTe
The BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOKE KEEPI
MEEC HANTS,
VIRGOE, SON, AND i
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BI
Sols
Proprietors,
It is of the utmost importance tl
bottle should be carefully compare
are being imported into New Soi
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bever;
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L(
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZAI
(Near Hunter-str
"tl HELL
ELECTEO-PLATEK A
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEV
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by
equal to Solid Sib
Articles of table wear, etc., repla
to wear equal to the
English Electroph
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZAI
(Near Hunter-str
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY 1
CABLES AND AN
Direct special attention to their
Hotels, See.
JOHN A. W I
WINE GROWER & ME]
COOIAITA WINE
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Cir
Sydney.
Vineyard : Coolalta, Branxton, I
PRICE LIST O
COOLALTA V
Extra fine quality, 42s. p
RED WINES Quarts
s. d.
Bungundy 30 0
No. 1 Coolalta Red 21 0
No. 2 „ „ 16 0
Yin Ordinaire 12 0
WHITE WINES.
Muscat 30 0
No. 1 Coolalta 31 0
No. 2 „ 16 0
Yin Ordinaire ; 12 0
I
ICE. ICE
■ E
PE OM IILTESED
SUPPLIED IN ANT QUA
AND AT REDUCED
Direct from th(
CITY ICE COMPANY
WATERLOO
T
Office —24 O’CONNEL]
HE GENUINE EAU
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the
Manufactured b
JOHANN MARIA
JULICHS-PL ATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (Gc
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Roys
By appointment to His Royal
Prince of Wales
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Ai
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili),
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Pi
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioni
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudule
Colognes; and notice is hereby gi
Marks being duly registered, all ii
ceeded against to the full extent of
JOHANN MARI
Ji
WHOLESALE AGI
MESSRS. RABONE, FI
3 WYNYARD SQU
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAFPINft MI
Hotels, &c.
The COMPAGNOl
CAFE AND CATERING CO:
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTi
IS NOW OPEN
The Company have secured the
Marriette, late chfif de cuisins <
Hotol, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinner!
Three hours notice required for pri 1
The spacious rooms of Messrs,
been greatly enlarged, re-decora
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL 1
June 30,1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE C
serve up in their besl
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLO
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NAT UR-/
Patrons of our Theatres and Con
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite
IJI A
TTEBSALL’S
TERRARA
PATRICK ST A
(Late of Sydney and Mi
Proprietor.
W None but first class ALES, W
in STOCK,
Every attention paid to' Visitors
Accomodation.
TEEMS MODERN
ALCOCK’S FULL-SIZED BIL
HORSES and BUGGY alwaj
oar Commercial Travellers and ’
HAVEN supplied with Private or
on receipt of telegram or letter. .
SHOW ROOM for Commercials.
The “Bulletin” Coach meets St
from the Hotel.
E W Z E A
To Tourists and others Visiti:
WAIWEEA HC
(Hot Springs and Mineral Ci
NEAR AUCKLA1
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMU1
(Sulphur and other Baths of evei
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, Tj
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the fs
HANA TERRACES, one of the W
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE I
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AI
Visitors to Auckland can make tl
at any of these favourite esta Mishi
On receipt of telegram or letter
Manager,” at Ellers lie, the fullest
immediately supplied.
ROBERT GRAHAM, Pi
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OF
AND ROTORUA WATERS
BY Dr. ECCLES.
Lake House, Rotorna, 12tl
I have visited Waiwera (Hot S
House, Ohinemutu, and the Term
on a tour, for the purpose of investq
of the various Hot Springs. 1 hav«
at the hotels owned by Mr. R. Gi
thank him and his managers for th
tended towards me. The Springs i
tioned places, I feel confident, pos
able medicinal qualities, whilst the
cessible from the last-mer tioned i
every person possessing the means
internal arrangements of the vario
made to meet the requirements of
ists, and this object has been fully i
A. LESLIE A.
B.A., M.B., Cantab; F.R
10 TOURISTS AND OTI
NEW ZEALAN
The Auckland Route is the shor
route to the wonderful Hot Lake 1
HOTEL, Albert-Street. Auckland
to the Wharf and Railway Statior
advantageous inducements to trave
cent Hotel is luxuriously f amis In
every appurtenance and appliance (
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
wW-E
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch. Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tnred Gin new so largely consumed.
&
ss
%
.Q
&
&
S3
m
%
i
SUPEEIOE to'SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent —C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone cf Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine f
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers ref erred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
HADE
MA RJC
JJOAE’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
stout
Is selected with great care from the hast of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of AETHUE GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot he excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. R CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents
January 29, 1881.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Bamum has been seriously ill.
In 1879 there were 3,599 actresses in France.
The Only Leon has been unwell in Melbourne.
Mrs. Bates, by latest accounts, was at Chicago.
Allan McDonald, M.H.R., now owns Foul Play.
Henry Irving has been acting twenty-four years.
Another success in “ Uncle ” for Fred. Mar-
shall.
Sacred concert at St. Benedict’s last Sunday
evening.
Lilian Andrews is now leading lady at Baldwin’s,
San Francisco.
The Euphonic Orchestral Society’s concert takes
place on the 27th.
Mary Lingard, mother of William Horace has
just died, aged 77.
The Kelly and Leon Company were to play in
Townsville on January 19.
The Victoria Theatre is to be re-built. The ward
in chancery is the only delay.
Messrs. Thorne and Darwin are at Pittsburg,
Pa., America. Business poor.
Haselmayer and wife a big success in Maoriland.
They were last heard of at Christchurch.
Miss Emma Wangenheim continues the leading
lady artiste of the Kelly and- Leon Company.
At latest dates, the Dalziel-Dickie-Lingard Com-
pany were in serious financial trouble at Chicago.
The Grattan Biggs and Burford Dramatic
Company drew payable houses at Wanganui, N.Z.
All the Dunedin papers say Miss Prances
Simonson is positively cruel as Hebe in “ Pinafore.”
The Bandmann-Beaudet Company are playing at
the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, N.Z., to good houses.
A drama called “Ned Kelly” has been pro-
duced at the Britannia Theatre, London. It is fairly
patronised.
Clara Stephenson and a dramatic company re-
cently attracted good houses at the Public Hall, Grey-
mouth, N.Z,
From Brisbane we learn that Mr. Keogh has
given up theatricals and is going to run the State school
at Sandgate.
Mr. and Mrs. Hart (Kate Russell), of “ Happy
Hours " fame, were showing in the Patea district (N.Z.)
at latest accounts.
The Lydia-Howarde Opera-bouffe Company visit
Wanganui, JN.Z,, this month, followed by Professor
Haselmayer and wife.
Adelina Patti, starring in Germany, receives
£450 for each performance, but large as the sum is
Nilsson receives a greater.
Mr. G. D. Chaplin has become a member of the
Maude Grainger Company, and when last heard from
was playing at the Globe Theatre, Boston,
A terrible hoarseness was the immediate cause
of Mr. William Creswick’s retirement from the Surrey,
London, where he was playing “ King Lear.”
The Townsville Amateur Dramatic Club are
already preparing for another entertainment. Mr. A. G.
Johnstone is the manager. Success expected.
Marie Litton’s new theatre at Glasgow will
accommodate about three thousand visitors, and may
be considered one of the finest in the kingdom.
An explosion took place at the Opera House,
Melbourne, on Saturday night, while the lime-light
was being worked. There was no serious damage done.
To remove all possible doubts as to the legality
of his last marriage, Philip Lee, once the husband of
Adelaide Neilson, has just had the ceremony repeated.
Mr. R. B. Wiseman, accompanied by his wife,
left for Adelaide on Friday by the Glenelg, under a
twelve months’ engagement, as treasurer, to Mr. James
Allison.
The St. Leonards club was easily defeated last
Saturday. Cause : the disgracefully bumpy state of the
ground, of which the visitors (the Stanmores) had the
first use.
Nina Tulloch does not enjoy the friendship of
the Townsville married folk—the female portion, we
mean. Those giddy old men! They will buzz round
the honey-pot.
‘ ‘ Pinafore ’ ’ is being given to the New Zealanders
wholesale just now. The Lingards lately produced it at
Auckland, Lvdia Howarde at Christchurch, and SimoA-
sen at Dunedin.
M‘Lean’s Troubadours, after a most successful
season on Charters Towers, returned to Townsville,
whore they played one night previous to their depar.
tore. Poor house.
It is proposed to re-estabhsh the Argyle Rooms,
Windmill-street, London. The application for a license
has been supported by the report of the Superintendent
of Police for that district.
The Mattie Taylor Troupe, with Mr. and Miss
Vivian, gave an entertainment at Liverpool, in aid of
the local band, last Thursday. Wet weather interfered
with the success of the affair.
Taglioni, the once famous dansouse (the men-
tion of the name makes one think of Lord Tomnoddy),
is now seventy-three years old. Since the Franco-
Prussian war she has been a professor of dancing.
Miss Adelaide Bowring (Mrs. Steele), who has
been residing in Dunedin, N.Z., for some months,
purposes leaving for England in a few weeks, and a
farewell benefit is being organised for her in that
town.
Tennyson’s new play is a cheerful one. The
scene is laid in Asia Minor, and the chief actors are a
king and a priestess. The priestess falls in love with
the king, and he deserts her, and the priests of the
temple poison him.
Little McMahon, business manager for Mrs.
Scott-Siddons (who, when the mail left, was at Chicago),
believes in advertising. We notice that in a recent
issue of the N.Y. Clipper there appears a full-page
advertisement signed by him.
The Lydia Howarde troupe appear to be doing
well in Wellington. N.Z.; and, from a cursory perusal
of the critiques of their performances in the N.Z. Times,
it would seem as if the Times’ critic were “one of her
slain.” Oh, seductive Lydia I
A host of professionals shortly visit New
Zealand. Arrangements have been made whereby Mrs.
Lewis’ Juvenile “ Pinafore " Company will visit there
in six weeks’ time, followed by the Williamsons, with
“ Struck Oil.” Both companies open at the Bluff.
Cole’s Circus, at present all the rage in Adelaide,
is expected in Melbourne soon. To show what a large
concern the company is, it may be mentioned that they
carry four bill-posters round with them. H. P. Lyons,
late agent for Blondin, is one of their chief business
men.
Lottie Wilmot, at latest advices, was still in
Christchurch. She recently gave an entertainment in
the Theatre Royal there, which consisted of descriptive
readings from Shakespeare, Bulwer Lytton, Edgar Poe,
and Sheridan Knowles. Lottie must surely be getting
high-toned.
The Sydney Musical Union programme should
attract a good audience. In addition to three solos
from that eminent artiste, Miss Christian, Mr. Sydney
Moss performs two pianoforte solos, and the pro-
gramme includes two quartettes by Mozart for Piano and
strings, and Mendelssohn’s “ Hear my prayer" for
soprano aud chorus.
Charles Wheatleigh was given a handsome pre-
sent recently at New York. The bell of his residence
rang furiously at half-past 8 o’clock on the night of No-
vember 29. Mr. Wheatliey answered the bell, and
found on the step a well-dressed female child about two
months old. warmly wrapped in a red woollen shawl. It
was taken into thchonse, when the following note was
found pinned to its dress: “ Please take care of. this in-
fant for God’s sake. From one in misery. Its name is
Lena." There was no signature to the note.
The Canadian and Western critics are grumbling
because Mrs. Scott-Siddons is no longer as young as
she was when she first went there, some fifteen years
ago, and they also assert that she has become too much
of a platform actress, like Anna Dickinson. Mrs. Scott-
Siddons was regarded as a pretty woman when first she
played Rosalind in New York.
A side-show blower was once called upon to
handle a rhinoceros, and he did it in this fashion at the
beginning: “ I must beg you, ladies and gentlemen, to
rive me your undivided antention. Indeed, it is abso-
lutely impossible that you can form any idea of the
hideous animal of which we are about to speak unless
yon keep your eyes fixed on me.
Thompson’s Diorama of the Zulu War has been
very successful in the Northern Districts. "Zulu”
opens at Gunnedah on Tuesday, and then returns to
Svdney. to arrange for the opening at the School of
Arts. Meanwhile the show will go on to Tamworth,
under the management of Mr. Stuart, and finish all
Northern engagements by the sth Feb.
Miss Clara de Yere (Miss Abrams), a Sydney
lady, is winning more laurels in the States. Having
studied with much success under Madame Inez Tabbri-
Muller, she appears in opera about March. She is to
take Leonora in II Trovatore and Marguerita in Faust
when the opera company, of which she is one of the
leading members, opens in San Francisco.
There is (says an American paper) discussing
the return of the “ characteristic danseuse” Mdlle. Sara
to the States, a decided difference between the legiti-
mate and the leg-itimate ballet. The evolutions of Sara
the Kicker, or “ Wiry Sal,” as she is sometimes called,
have as much relation to the true ballet as the gambols
of an excited dromedary have,to those of the gazelle.
Mr. William Gordon, the well-known and cour-
teous treasurer at the Adelaide Royal, has left Mr.
Allison. The parting was arranged and mutually satis-
factory on both sides. Mr. Gordon is open to an
engagement, and it is quite on the cards will visit
Sydney, where he will be remembered as having suc-
cessfully managed an operatic season at the “ Vic.” for
Mr. and Mrs. Bracy.
The Simonsen Opera Company have done well in
Dunedin, N.Z. “ Pinafore ” was produced to the best
houses of the season with the following cast. Signor
Riccardi carrying off first honours : —Sir Joseph Porter,
Riccardi; Rackstraw, Biancha ; Capt.Corcoran, Crain;
Deadeye, St. Clair; Bobstay, Wentworth; Josephine,
Martina Simonsen; Hebe, Therese Simonsen; Butter-
cup, Senora Simonsen.
As an instance of the self-conceit of Sara Bern-
hardt, the following is told The train for Havre, by
which Sara left Paris, was accidentally five minutes late
in leaving the station. Sara was five minutes late, and
on discovering the coincidence, she took it for granted
that the train had waited for her, and sent a message of
recognition to the officials therefor, much to the amuse-
ment of those who knew better.
All the ’Frisco theatres were open for Xmas
week. Emily Melville at Bush-st. as " Cinderella”;
a version of Rosini’s " Cinderella” at the Tivoli;
“ Mazeppa” at the California, under the management of
Maguire ; Shakespeare at the Baldwin; “ Ixion Re-
wheeled" at the Standard, with hosts of pretty girls;
“ The Butterfly’s Dream” at the Grand Opera House;
“ Girofle Girofla” at Woodward’s.
One New Zealand town has lately been having a
treat! Says the Wellington Times Madame Wharton
and her troupe of female beauties appeared last night
in a scene of living pictures, mythological, historical,
and fanciful. The most effective were “Ledaandthe
Swan," “ Ajax defying the Lightning,” “Achilles and
his Golden Heel,” the “|Laocoon Group.” There was
great applause, and it was much deserved.
A reader sends to an exchange the following on
the attenuated Sara Bernhardtlnterviewer (pointing
to the remains of a chicken): “ Bones yours, mam’selle ?”
Sara (very much pleased to hear French spoken): “ Bon
jour, monsier." . . Says another correspondent:—
“ It some person will build a play for Sara, in which she
can paint a panorama in the first act, sculp a monument
in the second, go up in a balloon and write a story in the
third, perform a variety song and dance medley in the
fourth, and promenade in a coffin in the fifth, it would
prove an assured fortune.”
A. Collard, the well-known English flute-player,
has invented a new flute, which he has taken the pre-
caution to patent. As a result of his invention, which
consists of doubling the last four holes, he claims to
have improved the tones of the lower notes, while giv-
ing increased power, ease and brilliancy to the instru-
ment generally. The material chiefly used by the
patentee for the bead and body is ebonite, a preparation
of india-rubber. One of the greatest difficulties of the
flute has always been the third octave, the fingering for
which differs entirely from that of the first or second
octaves, and Mr. Collard has removed this difficulty.
Mr. J. L. Hall is still at Adelaide with his wife
(Miss Emily Wiseman), Mr. and Mrs. Jerdan, and
Newcastle’s favorite. Miss Henriques. “By the way,”
writes our Adelaide correspondent, “ the other night
the pantomime was taken off for two nights and “ Pink
Dominoes" put up. The management skilfully inserted
a notice in the morning papers, saying that their ver-
sion was not the naughty one, which announcement had
the effect of drawing a good house of Adelaide hypo-
crites, who everyone hoped that the management were
mistaken. But the management kept faith with Church
and State, and only allowed a very few of the original
“ good things” of “ Pink Dominoes” to see the foot
lights.
The greatest rivalry in advertising went on in
Ohio between Cooper-Bailey’s and Forepaugh’s shows,
and it seemed almost impossible for either of the two
shows to make any money at all after expenses for bill-
ing were paid. Hundreds of bill-boards, besides the
regular ones, were placed all over the town —every
express wagon was brought into requisition—trans-
parencies and banners were suspended from buildings—
wagons, especially made for the occasion, were parading
the streets with huge posters—the daily papers were
teeming with “ads.” and were reaping a harvest —the
agents and managers were racking their brains and
trving everything imaginable to outdo one another.
Altogether it seemed a useless expenditure of money;
but the boys were having lots of fun, and the free tickets
were plenty.
A Celestial Lothario.
Hb was not one of those who went around the suburbs
with two baskets suspended at either end of a ship’s
main-top-gallant mast; but he was of the more patri-
cian order of the “ cabbagee ” purveyor. He did not
arrive, bless you! at the door of your suburban resi-
dence, “ bust ’’ your bell-wire, and then chant madri-
gals in his native language, until, with murderous
instincts in your heart and a bludgeon in your pocket,
you flung open the family portal and confronted him.
Oh dear, no! he was a cut above this kind of thing.
He had a tilt cart with a red body and green wheels,
and a large honey flea-bitten mare that nodded her head
all day in a condition of delighted acquiecence. He
vended, as the song goes—
“ His cabbagees, and his turnip-tops.
And his sparrowgrass, and his broccolo,”
Also what he termed “ flute ” —“ peachee,” “ orangee "
—“all wellee ni’, lo gammon.” His appearance had a
certain extent of digagi- ness: his costume consisting
invariably of printed moles (one leg considerably
shorter than the other), a cotton shirt, and a silk coat
which frequent washings had reduced to the texture of
the web of a Brazilian spider. His face was round, his
nose was flat, his mouth was large, his eyes were small,
and the general expression of his face was one of
mingled merriment and cunning, in which the latter
rather predominated. His English, though rather er-
ratic, was comprihensible; and he had acquired from
■ome European acquaintance a number of British
idioms which he considered to represent gallantry of
the most advanced description. Thus, on beholding a
buxom servant girl, leering out of his cart he would
ejaculate: “Hullo, Maly; you belong giddy girlee;
you meet Johnny allee-same moonbeam sparkle P”
together with the various “whoops” with which the
Sussex-street lovelacers are wont to ensnare their
enslavers. These fascinations were not without their
effect upon various slaves of the broom whom John
matutinally encountered. Success, however, as it is
well known, begets ambition; and it was not long
before the sprightly Tartar cast his eyes in a higher
direction He first met her as she was
seated in the garden of her ather’s house at Glebe Point.
She was very small and very dork, with a face of
Andalusian dreaminess. She had a low, sweet voice,
and there was a dewy freshness about her that was
delightful. As John’s cart pulled up, Evangeline (for
so we will call her) flattered a page of the Bow Bells
she was reading, and looked upon him with some
curiosity. “ Hi, I say—you —girlee—wanchee lumber-
one cabbagee ?" She looked upon him at first with
mere curiosity, and then engaged in conversation. The
next day the cart came round again, and John made her
a love-offering of two water-melons and a pumpkin.
And so it went on, day after day, until Evangeline
became (we almost tremble as we are writing it) “ gone"
on the Chinaman. ... At Willoughby Palls,
North Shore, they met, and plighted their troth in the
full blaze of the noonday sun She said, “ Heavenly
Celestial, though venal mortals profess to despise you,
I live but in the reflected glory of your earthly presence.
In a word, I love you." He said, “ Bymeby John Canton
go-backee; aake you board sippe. Whoop ! John like
you nearly alle same China girlee.” Shortly after the
affecting interview, Evangeline’s brother, who is chief
officer on board a large steamer, returned home from a
trip, and noticing the peculiar manner in which his sis-
ter now wore her hair —being something in the teapot
style—made enquiries, and eventually discovered the
whole affair. • * * * At a coach-factory in Wool-
loomooloo there is at this present time a tilt-cart, with
a red body and green wheels, lying in a very crippled
condition; and the proprietor of the place is anxiously
awaiting the recovery of the vehicle-owner, who is
lying with a cracked skull at the Infirmary, for instruc-
tions as to the techn’cal nature of the alterations. We
are, however, in a position to state that the business and
good-will, including the remnant of a flea-bitten mare,
and the balance of a tilt-cart, are to be sold cheap—
application to be made to the principal, through the
Infirmary authorities.
PEPPER AND SALT.
They were three newspaper men, or some other
sample of insolvents, and they went to Mossman’s Bay
by water. Stopping to “kiss the baby ’’at the hotel,
they were cautioned to beware of snakes, and accord-
ingly tramped the bush with the careful gait usually
ascribed to a cat on hot bricks. Their courage had
almost returned, however, when suddenly a snake, of
the carpet species, was seen coiled up on the track, and
apparently waiting for someone to tread on his tail or
otherwise assault him. The first reporter immediately
jumped over a fence and crawled into a hollow log; the
second started off for the North Head Batteries at a
pace that would rather astonish Aplitt. The third man,
however, was determined to sell his life at the highest
market value, and accordingly armed himself with a
young tree, crept cautiously up, and dealt that snake a
smack that nearly brought it to life again.
A telegram from Wagga to the Lyre says : —
“In the Roman Catholic Chapel yesterday, the Rev.
Dr. Bermingham, in addressing his congregation, de-
nounced the newspapers of the colony, with two or three
exceptions, as unfit for Catholic parents to place before
their children, and complained that while the Catholics
would not buy Catholic books, they would take such a
paper as the Town and Country Journal. He referred
also to the Freeman's Journal in terms of disparage-
ment, inasmuch as that journal had declined to publish
a school report sent by him. He eulogised another
Catholic paper, the canvasser of which stood at the door,
requesting the congregation to subscribe t heir names to a roll
he had before him." The italics are, of course, ours, and
so are the verses which follow: —
A fair correspondent, who signs herself “ Maud
Matilda," writes to know if that dear young man who
writes the " Zig-Zag Papers ” is married or single. If
the latter, she thinks life after all is worth living for ;
but if the former, there is nothing left but the sui-
cide’s grave in the bone-yard. Now the fact is, Maud
Matilda, there is a great deal more of that young man
than most of us imagine. Instead of being one, there
are five-and-twenty of him; and if you want to court
him all, you’ll have a particularly busy time of it. You
see one man couldn’t bear the strain and live, so the
five-and-twenty are told off on different jobs. One sits
on the railway people, another sits on dogs, another
sits on protection, and another sits on servant girls.
They are all good hearty eaters, and receive £150 a sit —
all except the party who deals with the servant girls,
and his billet is, we believe, a sort of honorary one.
A man entered a newspaper office in this city,
and asked to see the editor. He was told to walk
upstairs, and he drifted into a room where a tall young
man sat by himself, eating anchovy paste sandwiches
and sipping now and anon from a tumbler of native
glucose. “ I want the editor of the Evening Jumble,”
said the visitor. “You have before you not only the
editor of the Jumble, but the editor and proprietor of
the Weekly Staggerer,” said the tall young man,
striking an attitude, and spearing a distant crumb with
a magnum-bonum pen. “ Then, tell me this,” pursued
the enquiring stranger,—“a few weeks ago, in an
editorial on the Sublunary Basis of the Anti-bialgi*
Principles, as laid down in the abstract principles of
Confucius, in his supplementary dissertation on the
elements of a prurient protectionist policy in the
province of Hynangchungerong, the dates of which— ’’
The sandwich devourer rose with an hysterical gasp,
and hurriedly said —“ Hynangchungerong dates ! I-er
am not editor of that part of it. They’ll tell you down-
stairs in the front office.” And downstairs they told
him that all they knew about dates was that the last
they bought were fourponce-halfpenny a pound. On
which the gentlemen left, mentally calculating how
much putty and lead-pipe it would take to construct an
editor up to the intellectual calibre of the conductor of
the Evening Jumble and the Weekly Staggerer.
The annual meeting' of the principal supporters
of a certain W oo Church took place the other night.
It rained very hard, but nevertheless it was a brilliant
gathering. Two cabs with difficulty held the visitors,
and there was a great display of enthusiasm and damp
umbrellas. Sneezing was frequent, and the. chairman
coughed like a mittrailleuse. The incumbent, rising,
said things had gone on all right during the past year,
and he would like to see anyone contradict him. He
hadn’t had time, so manifold were his other duties, to
worry around amongst the sick much, but he had come
out very strong at denouncing his political antagonists.
Several people were behindhand with their pew-rents.
They had better look out. Two alternatives were open
to them —cashing up, or a slating. Since the expulsion
of the Jesuits from Prance, several of his church win-
dows had been broken, and a murderously-minded
Papist had been caught in the act of making a butter-
slide outside his front door. That his life was in danger
he knew and gloried in. Emmissaries from the Pope,
armed with pea-shooters, had opened fire upon him in
the public street; and a dastardly Jesuit, feebly dis-
guised as a boy of 7, had heaped contumely on his (the
rev. gentleman’s) head on the sacred threshold of his
own chapel. That was the state of affairs, and yet the
Government didn’t offer him a special body-guard. No
matter —they should hear from him shortly. That elo-
quent discourse closed the meeting, and the damp
hearers seized their damper ginghams, and went sniffing
away. A-tis-shu 1
Considering the shortness of his stay amongst
us, Mr. Anthony Trollope built a very fair-sized book on
Sydney. Our literature in particular struck A.T. as
being somethingwonderful.anditissaidhedescribes one
journal called the Herald, connected with which there
is a rule that any member of the staff who knowingly,
and of malice aforethought pei petrates a deliberate joke
or pun, is immediately taken out into the back yard, and
shot dead. And a foot-note to the above says there has
only been one execution during the present century.
There are three things which are good to sec,
and the fourth raiseth up the Christian’s soul until he
can scarcely keep his hat on And these things are—a
fashionable girl before breakfast, an alderman flashing
through the city mud with his Sunday clothes on, a
boarding-school miss making her first attempt to
whistle, and a Good Templar arriving home just in
time to meet the morning milkman.
If the immortal David’s new scheme is not
nipped in the bud, some people will have a healthy
time of it. “Every imprisoned debtor,” declares
Scotia’s immortal son, “ shall be supported while in
prison by the imprisoning creditor at the rate of 14s.
per week.” Who wouldn’t get into debt after this ?
Mr. Cheetim owes his tailor £5—goes to gaol for five
years, and Snip loses £150, whilst Cheetim (as Scripture
says) waxeth fat and beginneth to kick. This is some-
thing like a Bill; and, as soon as it passes, our gaols
will not hold all the candidates. Only David should
have made the fare 14s. a day, and the debtor might
then lay up something for a rainy day.
“ The melodious gentlemen from Paterland at
once distended their cheeks, and made florid their
countenances, —thereby producing most foot-stirring
measures, and causing the floor to be covered with a
multitude of chasseing balancing folk.” The above i*
not from the pen of Dr. Watts or Martin Tapper, but
from that of our giddy little flirt, Miss Gipsy, and is
meant to convey to the public mind the startling fact
that six or seven saur-kraut punishers battered out
“Grandfather’s Clock” and “Nancy Lee,” whilst a
gang of “ balancing folk *’ jostled each other about, and
mode themselves as hot and uncomfortable as so many
half-boiled prawns. Some people, however, can extract
poetry even out of an old dumpling, whilst others can
extract nothing but a full-sized stomach-ache. Such is
life.
“ Boycott’s crops,” wrote Dagonet on lAtffi
i November last, “ are being got in by men who arc pro-
tected by six regiments of the line, and Boycott himself
rides about his farm attended by a detachment of Life
Guards. The question is whether this show of strength
is not ridiculously in excess of the necessity. Its eotni*
side, however, is the first to strike the British public,
and that is a good job. Nothing so soon overcomes
rebellion as ridieule; nothing so soon disperses a
mob as cold water. If, instead of treating the Laud
Leaguers as criminals, we had chosen to regard them a*
idiots, they would never have gone the lengths they
have. By-and-by we shall have a lino like this on the
placards : * Captain Boycott’s donkey attacked.by Land
Leaguers. Gallant behaviour of the British army.
Rescue of the donkey.’ ”
In the church you may proclaim it.
In the country, and in town ;
But a rag when it is tame, it
Never, never will go down!
Yon can force it on a few just.
Over whom you’ve moral sway;
But of this be certain, you just.
They will never, neverjp&y.
It may linger for a little.
Feeble as the twilight’s ray :
And just like a stick you whittle.
Smaller grow—then pass away.
If a paper’s to succeed, it
Must have merit of its own,
(Whom it may concern now heed it.)
Dies the rag that has got none.
THE BALLAD OF THE BILL-STICKER.
“ William Hughes, charged with violently and
maliciously threatening Mary Hughes, was ordered to
be bound over to keep the peace for three months ; or,
in the event of not finding sureties, to suffer 3 months'
imprisonment.” —Morning Muffin.
Bill Hughes he is a Knight of Paste,
And really few are qr icker
At getting a trim hoarding “ faced ”
In short, he’s a bill-sticker.
He wedded—yet he did not prove
A champion baby-husher.
To “blue ” the “ sugar " he did love.
And give the “ old girl ” “ brusher.”
Quite late he’d lie in bed the mom.
And cruel he did treat her;
Quoth he : “ All other bills I scorn.
Excepting a two-sheeter.”
Yes, late his couch he did stop in,
And many a pound he lost her ;
But when she wept, the scamp did grin—
“ I’m good at a four-poster.”
He was the beeriest of Bills,
He always had the hiccup;
He swore he wouldn’t post the bills.
And drinks were all he’d stick-up.
He wouldn’t work —of money he
Was a most direful waster :
And when she wept, he furiopslee
Declared that he would “ paste” her.
So then a warrant out she took
* (Her action, wives 1 be lauding!)
Stern men now in a gloomy nook
Her naughty Bill are “ hoarding.”
Sooth, yes, behind a wall of stone
(His conscience, sure, is pricking).
All melancholy and alone
(For tricking) Bill is sticking.
The following letter was picked up in front of
the Town Hall by the blind Joachim who holds open air
concerts in front. The owner can have the same by
paying all expenses. —“ Honirible Sir—The barer of this
is my eldist son, John Willutn, and although I says it,
which being his own father I shouldn’t. He is, without
eckseptshun, one of the most thick-headed, good-tor-
nothin galoots that ever wore collars, and I therefore
recommend him to your most carefull approval.
Eespeotin the timber contract for your friend, Mr.
Cheetem, I think this can bo did, but much depends
upon surkumstances. and how things turn out, you see.
The barer, John William, has not only given me much
troubil, but a awful lot of expense as well, and I want
you to do somethin for him. I intended him to be a
doctor, first, and so I gets him a job in a chemist’s
shop which only kept him 3 days. The first day he was
there he broke a femails jaw distracting a back tooth
from it, and the second day he poisoned a hole bordin
hoxse set by selling the cook aisenic instead of bakin
powder. He was ignermeanyisly dismissed. After
this I sent John Willum to this ingineering buziness,
but he hadn’t been there a week before he fell down the
masheeuery and cost me seventeen pound ten for re-
pairin him. About that assfalt job you were talkin on,
I will do my best for your brother-in-law, Mr. Workitt,
but it will be a matter of sum difficulty. There are so
manyatit. Siuce JohnWillumleftthemasheenery I hev
put him into everything I could think off—from loyers
klark down to stickin up pins in a skittle alley—but he
was se uttarlee useless no one would keep him longer
nor two days. He is fitt for nothin whatever, and what
I want you to do is to get John Willum into some nice
easy billet in Government—somethin whare his priusipel
dooties will be to read the nsozepapers, and dror his
salery. I think John Willum would give satisfakshun
as a Government klark, but for anythin else he isn’t
worth a damsir. The tenders for kerbin and gutterin
will be in on the 21st, so if your friend Mr. Flyman will
call I cam eive him some yousefull information. Don’t
ask John Willum any kweatyins, nor put him in for any
eggsaminashuns becos he don’t no nothin sir; you just
appoint him strait off into something whare he can
dror a good skrew, and can’t do nothin to hurt hisself
no mere. —Yours truly, Alderman Baggo. P.S.—And
don’t you let the other klarks jolly him up, sir, coz he’s
sensertif and might kum home agin, sir—whare he ain’t
wanted.”
Having seen a “ brilliant ” joke in the Oltowl,
we were immediately inspired with the idea of singing
the following little song;—
Most holy man, why dost essay
This puling, hum’rous caper ?
You must know. Doctor, anyway.
You’re not a comic paper !—
Not comic right bang through, at least.
For all the funny particles
On which your readers weekly feast.
Are in the leading articles.
We know, O good Samaritan 1
Some few things you are great in,
And, all unaided, that you can
A power do of slating.
We also cheerfully admit
The poor Rope you’d be banging.
That on Dean Leonard yon would sit,
And Rubie you’d be hanging.
So we admire you, but must state
We think it is a pity
That one whose mission is to slate,
Should aim at being witty.


MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
The Babies are still at the Bijou.
Giammoha is very fond of the little Missees.
Patti Laverne, of the Opera Comique, is a
Jewess.
The sun is shrivelling up the Exhibition organ.
So Kazey says.
Kelly and Leon have performed over 100 nights
in Melbourne.
The Opera House is the worst upholstered
theatre in Melbourne.
The Leichhardt discoveries have startled Mel-
bourne and the Baron.
Oh! Telemachus, read “ No ” the Essay in last
week’s Australasian.
Sub Domo —The rendezvous of the cultured and
refined at the International.
Patti Laverne compares unfavorably with Annis
Montague in a like character.
A “ Hebraic soprano ” lives in Fitzroy, with a
voice as sweet as a vesper hell.
. It’s too bad, Tom, to make such fun of poor
Leichhardt in last week's Scaramouche.
Wallace, you are the glow of the opera. Don’t
think of leaving us. “ I am here, dear Duke.”
Ned Bitten has promised to supply The
Bulletin with another Jewish poem. It will be ready
shortly.
’Arry and Fwedewick are wrong. There are no
dinners equal to Shickerspill’s No. 1, at the Inter-
national
Punch has taken up the cause of the ill-used
Babies at the Bijou. It is a worthy subject for scathing
sketch and article.
Billy Gaunsoa will have another shot for the
East Melbourne seat at the coming election. Nil
deaperandum, Gauny.
Are you asleep, Marcus ? Did George Eliof
write her latest work in 1859 ? and was it never trans-
lated from the French ?
Langridge ambulates as if he were King of
Collingwood. He makes a capital representative for
the Land of the Larrikin.
Some of those “ furriners ” at the Exhibition
will be horsewhipped before they leave these genial
shores. Laa— dies, Laa — dies !
Bring out poor Akhurst’s “ Siege of Troy,”
Harwood. Yon have every opportunity now. Give us
Cassandra, and we will die happy,
Jewesses of the moat aquiline type and of the
most gorgeous plumage, affect Manson’s watch-stand
on gala afternoons at the International.
Annie Montague’s voice is powerful, pleasing,
penetrating, and perfect. She sang last week at the
Philippe Herz estfade at the International.
Ladies anxious to secure matrimonial ties should
carefully clear their houses of all peacocks’ feathers.
Such things are a sure safeguard for old maids.
It is rumoured that the Metropolitan Liedertafel
Is defunct. It was the most successful, and yet the
worst managed institution of its kind in Melbourne.
The weather is glorious in Melbourne. Mummy-
dried Queenslanders, and dust-begrimed New South
Walers, come and recruit your health in the Hygeia of
the South!
G.B.W. says the babies like it. Yes, and so do
they like sucking the green paint off their toys, and
eating unripe fruit. A post -mortem, is generally the
result, nevertheless.
Advice to parents. When a youthful son is
lovesick, don’t try to keep the girl out of the way.
Invite her to spend a week with your family. This will
be found a perfect cure.
Victoria exhibits at the International a State-
school teacher and his appendages. The name of the
former is faddy, and his appendages are amongst the
packing cases at the back of the Fernery.
The Aegus ascribes the cause of the anti-
Jewish agitation in Germany to the Protectionist
principles lately promulgated by the Bismarck party.
We think that “ protecting ” against foreign (?) intel-
lect and culture is carrying matters rather too far.
A certain captain who makes himself very agree-
able to his lady passengers, the other day came across
a number with whom he had had lively doings on board
ship. A strange contrast —for a cold, polite bow was
the only acknowledgement. Explanation—his wife was
with him.
Another row at the Melbourne Hospital. King
Gillbee has dismissed Dr. Thomas from the Palace.
Doctor Woinarski has been called upon to explain the
“ why and wherefore" he called one of the committee-
men a “ murderer.” And everything is once more at
‘ sixes and sevens.”
Kowalski, the “genial and talented,” and (we
may add) musician, is writing to the Paris
Figaro about our great show. He speaks disparagingly
•of our success in art as shown in the Victorian Gal-
lery. You are right, Kowy. The average Victorian
hasn’t a soul above the money-bags.
Ketten and his wife dined at the Austrian
Restaurant before leaving Melbourne. Ketten called
fora more spacious spoon. “We have none,” replied
the obsequious though foreign waiter. The next day
that restaurant received a parcel of a dozen spoons,
“ with Mr. Kettgn’s compliments."
Bent has been informed by a “competent car-
penter" that the dome of the international is unsafe.
Will Messrs. Verdi, De Vivo, Giammona, Greenwall and
others please take notice of this fact. If they are cal-
lous to this announcement, they will perhaps have to
rendezvous in a warmer spot next season.
A. M. Topp has a capital article in the Mel-
bourne Eeview, entitled, “ English Institutions and
the Irish Race." Withal, it is not a popular article.
His brother, St. John, takes the trouble, in last week’s
Advocate, to disclaim any connection with the paper
in question. The Advocate writhes; but then it is
paid to do so.
The camera obscura on the dome of the Exhibi-
tion, is a source of great amusement. Certain persons
had, however, better be careful how they have love
passages on the stairs. Kissing’in public makes the
actors look rather small when a laugh from a crowded
room greets them as they enter it, not knowing tiU
afterwards that their little game was observed.
Jules Joubert’s latest: “Why does the most
Popular paper in Australia resemble a soup-kettle?
Because it’s a Bouilli-tin, you see.” We suspect
Jules means a Bully-tin (we have heard of soup-and-
hully). If it were not for the high official position our
r ranco-Australian holds at the International, we would
never have given prominence to such a bald effusion.
Some visitors to Lome, Lontit Bay, recently
published a Bulletin, written in manuscript, and re-
produced on the gluograph. We should fancy a sea-
side resort was the place above all others where rest
to be found, and aU editorial and other cares were
thrown to the winds. However, it is a compliment to
ns to hear that the work we commenced has found a
genial home in the “Torquay of the South.”
'So George Collins is going to take a holiday. It
‘-Ppears that the breath of the whiskered chieftain ban
given way, his mental equilibrium being over-strained
ihe torments of Exhibition life, enforced presence
at banquets and champagne Inncheons, and the weari-
pf a tour round the world, which he was com-
pelled to take at the instance of an exacting people,
who paid aU his expenses. Noble patriot! enjoy your
well-earned holiday. Retire to Sorrento, or some other
_aiubrious watering-place, and there, you may remain
i r ever. Addio! Shemomiuee!
, Two loaves of bread, butter, rice pudding,
-w« pints of milk, sago, two bowls of beef tea, steak
and potatoes, two eggs, and ten ounces of brandy," is
the dietary table of an ordinary patient at the Mel-
bourne Hospital. The Argus suggests the addition of
a case of champagne and a box of cigars. There is a poor
hard-working litterateur we wot of who would be glad
of one half of these good things per diem. We would
just at soon live in the Melbourne Hospital as in the
Melbourne Club, or any other rech&rche establishment.
At the International there is a bust (a dentist’s
advt.) displaying a false set of teeth. The bust is a
waxile representation of the celebrated picture “ A
Capital Joke." The other day an Irishman came by,
and being irate at seeing one of the holy fathers so mis-
represented (for the guise was that of a priest) that he
knocked the teeth down that unlucky bust’s throat.
This was done three times. The dentist has now re-
arranged his figure as a Highlander, and Munro waltzes
daily around it with his umbrella, uttering the most
extravagant teetotal oaths.
Reviewers, and the best of them too, can, like
other mortals, literary and otherwise, disagree most-
wondrously, as the following wi'l show. In the Argus
review of Lord Beaconsfield’s work, “Endymion,” the
reviewer says : “The style is essentially that of Mr,
Disraeli—stilted, unreal, and inartistic in the general
descriptions, and especially the descriptions of scenery.
There are numerous slips and blunders even in the
grammar, such as the rawest writer of English would
hardly commit —false antithesis, wrong construction,
absurdities, and extravagancies in almost every
chapter." The Athenceum, the premier literary news-
paper of England, writes of the same work : “ But if
the book has some drawbacks, its merits are still re-
markable. It is excellently written, and the author has
never so fully proved himself able to produce qufet,
graceful English prose. It is full of epigrammatic
terms of thought and speech.” Which are .we to
believe ? for both reviews seem to be well and carefully
written. If reviewers disagree, we suppose we must
read and judge the work for ourselves. Never mind.
Dizzy, you have spent a lifetime of unswerving loyalty
to the Queen, and sans doute you must possess some
small amount of loyalty to her English.
MELBOURNE JINKS.
BY SHANGHAI.
It is said that Sir “ Salmon ” Wilson is going to
England, as lie finds society here not up to his ideal
standard. Fahey that!
With the advance of civilization, the accumula-
tion of wealthy and consequent artificial state of
existence, the tone of morality is ranidly changing—
whether for better or worse is a matter of opinion.
Anyhow it has changed “ some," as the records of pro-
bates of wills granted here recently prove conclusively.
For within the past few weeks no less than three cases
have cropped up in connection with three highly re-
spected leading citizens, in all of which money has been
left to the separated wives of other men. Certainly in
two of the instances the men were not otherwise mar-
ried, but in one the deceased leaves as much to the
wife of another as to his own. “So runs the world
away.” The strange problem presented by such facts
is worthy of discussion, and yon should get the subject
worried by Mr. Charles Bright and a tew ramping evan-
gelicals. My own idea on the matter is that stolen
fruits and kisses are the sweetest. Still, I may be
wrong.
Who aays literature don’t pay? We have a—
well—litterateur amongst us who keeps a nice villa and
a boy in buttons, and gives A1 dinners to the elite—con-
sisting of some squatter noodles, who affect intelligence
and discuss the Irish and Eastern Questions with a
solemnity which would be amusing were it not for the
ignorance displayed. These shepherd kings, however,
have tons of filthy lucre, and the man of letters who
entertains them, flatters them, feeds them, and liquors
them up, is always ready to accept as much as can be
spared. So these reunions are quite the thing, you see!
It is. said that James Smith is tired of editing
the Victorian Review and criticising its contents in
the Argus. Perhaps it don’t pay the indefatigable
journalist; I wouldn’t wonder. At any rate one Hogan,
cetat 25, is said to be the “ coming man.” Of course
Mr. Mortimer Franklyn is still the guiding genius of
this most successful literary enterprise, and it is pe-
cuniarily supported by some admirable and respected
business men —to wit, Mr. Horsfall, of R. Goldsbrough
& Co.—and a few wool lords, who like to feel they are
connected with the Fourth Estate.
This is good, it you have only sense enough to
appreciate it. John Woods, alias Tarbrush, lately our
Minister for Railways, is an Exhibition Commissioner,
tor which, beyond cheap feeds, he is not paid—directly.
Sir Herbert Sanford is the Commissioner representing
Great Britain, and he receives some emolument. Now
this, together with another fact —that Sir Herbert is a
gentleman—has rankled so deeply in Johnny’s manly
bosom, that he has had to give, in reference to the
knight, utterance to the choice and thoroughly
“ brakish ” expression—“ pauper commissioner.” Hav-
ing unburdened his mind, the hero of the Castlemaine
water-pipes, knowing that the elegant remark had
reached the British representative, fully made up his
mind to cut Sir Herbert, bat the latter would notnotice
it. On being asked why he condescended to nod to the
man, the following caustic reply was vouchsafed : “ My
dear fellow, I couldn’t allow such a creature to cut me;
it would be so absurd.” Good, Sir Herbert.
How is it that doctors marry wealthy women ? —
At least, this is the case in Melbourne. It must be that
they get rare opportunities of pleading their suit when
their victims are exhausted by ennui, brought on by
rich living and idleness. A woman is so fond of making
love when she can recline on a luxurious sofa,’ fan her-
self, sip tea, and make eyes at the man whom she sees
humbled at her feet. Anyhow, it is a fact that Mel-
bourne doctors are most successful fortune-catchers.
In proof of my assertion, I can quote Aubrey Bowen,
who married Money Miller’s daughter; James, who
hooked a daughter of John Matheson’s, manager of the
Bank of Victoria, and owner of countless numbers of
sheep; Garrard, who doubled an heiress in Miss O’Mul-
lane; Rowan (not of Plevna notoriety), who charmed a
child of Austin’s, a shepherd king hailing from Tas-
mania ; baloney, the clever and popular medico, who se-
cured one of the Quirks, whose father was facile prin-
ceps among money-makers; Enabling, the poetical,
made another haul; and so on, ad libitum. Are your
doctors as successful ? [Many of them are. They take
oil the women and the men too. —Ed. B.]
Society of a necessity must have a leader, but it
generally follows the caprices of some pretty, but
foolish woman who, after a fitful and feverish career,
lapses into the forgotten, sour-grained spinster, or
scolding wife and mother. But here, it appears, society
—don’t ask me for an explanation of what that means—
is guided by the dictates, whimsical or otherwise, of a
young surgeon, who became known to this part of the
world through letters written from the scene of a late
war to. his parents, and published by them in the
columns of a local journal. This young gentleman is
Society’s referee. He has only to look at a man, and he
is made—socially speaking, of course. A word against a
wretched creature endeavoring to aspire—God save the
mark! —to mix among our upper orders, and he is d—d,
banished from the bashfully sweet glances, the in-
vitingly pouting lips, the nervously squeezing hand of
the fair (jueens of Melbourne society. What a' power,
and what a position, to feel that your code of right or
wrong, your approval or disapproval, is the correct
card! Fancy, Mr. Editor, if ever you rose to such a
position, what would you not be ?—A brick, a beau, a
straight downright killer? Wouldn’t you “fetch,”
just — but I hope you never will be afforded the
opportunity.
It is not an unknown fact that political patronage
is not always bestowed according to justice or merit;
but it is not every Ministry which has two members
who have billeted two sisters in comfortable quarters-
first, because they, the fairies, aged respectively 22 and
25, pleased tjie Ministers in question so much that they
found it impossible to part from them: hence their
appointment. But one can’t wonder at this when we
have two leading politicians who hold peculiar views
about matrimony. One has two wives in two sisters,
the other a wife and a governess. It’s a pity the
Churches don’t apply themselves to correcting these
rulers in high places, for their example is not likely to
be conducive to the practice of morality, which is apt
to be rather lax in so warm a climate.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
[FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.]
January 21st.
A large ball is to be given by Mr. and Mrs.
Morton, of Labona, Learmoath, on the 21st, and it is
expected that the distinguished guests will be present.
On the 22nd the Finisterre leaves the bay for
Tasmania. The captain and officers have made them-
selves very popular here, and will be much regretted.
Mr. Kendall’s “ Orara ” is the poem selected for
presentation to the members of the Art Union of
Victoria, in place of the usual chromo lithograph. The
poem is to be enriched with thirteen engravings, from
wood-cuts by colonial artists.
St. Peter’s Church, on the Eastern Hill, was the
centre of attraction on the morning of the 13th inst.,
when the marriage of Mr. Lake to Miss Wilkinson,
daughter of the Master of Equity, was solemnised.
The church had been prettily decorated with flowers by
the Sunday-school teachers, in honor of the occasion,
for both the bride and bridegroom have identified them-
selves with good work, and are highly esteemed. The
Eev. H. H. P. Handfleld conducted the service, and
Mr. Summers officiated at the organ, playing the
orthodox wedding march. The bride wore white silk,
made princesse shape, a long train puffed round the
edge, a wreath of orange blossoms, and a long tulle veil.
Her sister was the only bridesmaid, and wore a short
dress of soft pink material. Toque.to match.
Two more old colonists have passed from our
•midst —Mr. A. K. Smith, the member for East Mel-
bourne, who died last Sunday, at the comparatively
early age of 56 years, and Mr. W. S. Urquhart, a colonist
since 1842. The latter gentleman was a surveyor by pro-
fession, and originally laid out the town of Castlemaine
and the city of Ballarat. Mr. A. K. Smith’s funeral
took place on Tuesday, and was an immense affair. The
pags at the Exhibition and all public offices throughout
the city, were half-mast high.
I perceive our jaunty Premier, Mr. Berry, and
our severe and bellicose Attorney-General are receiving
much courtesy and hospitality during their official
visit in Sydney. The proposal, which has emanated
from your “ Protectionists,” to hold a meeting to
enable Mr. Berry to ventilate his opinions thereon, is
not without interest to us. What a capital thing it
would be to convert you all to our way of thinking, and
unite the whole continent into one selfish protection-
ridden country, with one grand Parliament or Congress,
of which Mr. Berry and Mr. Yale would be such orna-
ments! By the way, would Sydney or Melbourne be
the capital (no one mentions Adelaide or anywhere else
as in that race), or will some new inland site be chosen ?
Not a bad idea to buy up building lots in the neigh-
bourhood of that new centre. By the way, Geelong has
many advantages for such an honour, only it is not
inland—but then Mr. Berry is building a new residence
there, quite palatial I hear; and it would be so graceful
a complimient to him—and as, of course, he would be
the Governor of the new Empire, the expense of a
Government House would not be incurred during his
lifetime.
The theatres are all, or nearly all, representing
pieces in which laughter, fun, and folly are encouraged.
It is “ like old times, as the sayin’ is,” to meet our
well-known favourites, Richard Stewart, Docy, Maggie,
and Nellie. They all look well, and act with all their
old humour and verve. Time deals gently where his
march is detected, but with Nellie, of course, it has
only developed and ripened her attractions and abilities.
A horrible account of the adulteration of food
comes to us from Chicago, where there is a factory for
the manufacture of oleomargarine, and it appears 3000
pounds weight of this stuff is compounded daily from
such ingredients as soapstone, lard, tallow, and other
nauseous fatty substances and sold in the quantities
above stated as good butter. Heaven save the mark 1
On Thursday, the 20th, a fashionable wedding
took place in Ballarat, when the daughter of the Rev.
Henderson, Presbyterian minister of the diocese, was
married to Mr. Yandeleur, a wealthy squatter from
Eiverina. The ceremony was performed in the Scotch
Church by the bride’s father. The bride, who is very
pretty, wore ivory colored satin made very plain with a
long train and an orange blossom wreath and long tulle
veil. She hod five bridesmaids, who were dressed in
Madras muslin with colored underskirts, two wearing
pink, two blue, and one violet. They all wore large
white hats and carried exquisite boqnets.
Wedding “breakfasts have quite gone out, and
the male fashionable mode is to have some light refresh-
ments on returning from church with the orthodox
cake and champagne partaken of by the guests in an
informal manner. This is by many preferred to the old
custom of a heavy and massive luncheon, encumbered
with the formalities of speechifying.
A rather odd charge has been brought by an
anonymous writer in the Argus against the Leader,
which publishes as the latest and last story of George
Elliot a tale entitled the “Lifted Veil,” with the curious
statement that the story was composed in a foreign
language, and conferring the honor of translation,
especially for the Leader, on Mr. Marcus Clarke,
whereas it appears this very story was written in
English in 1859, and was published in the cabinet
edition of George Elliot’s works by W. Blackwood and
Sons in 1878. To say the least, the affair looks mixed.
Mr. and Mrs. Fletcher, the bride and bride-
groom whose gay wedding at Gisborne some little time
back engrossed fashionable attention, left Melbourne on
Wednesday in the mail steamer, en route for Scotland,
where Mr. Fletcher has large estates.
The hair harvest in France is -just over. An
enormous trade is carried on in this novel industry, and
the country girls and women cultivate their hair for the
purpose of remunerative sale. I believe it takes tbrpe
years for a crop to arrive at necessary perfection. The
Norman peasant women have the finest hair, the
Bretonnes the coarsest, and the longest hair comes from
Limousin. Atmosphere has a wonderful effect on hair,
for in the north of Prance the hair is bleached with the
sea air, whilst in the mountain districts it is dark and
curly. Pair hair seems in greatest demand. Germany
takes tons, and England similar quantities, bqt the
Americans are the largest customers, and take all kinds
of hair. This artificial acquisition to many a lady’s
toilette is, of course, expensive, and a plan much in
vogue here is to save the hair that comes away in the
use of the brush and comb. Hair dressers now
advertise the fact that they can make up into switches
“ladies’own combings,” and it is wonderful how well
they succeed.
The newest shades of color for fashionable
winter materials will be prune color and dahlia, and all
shades of violet. In most cases, the colors will be of
soft autumnal tints, and blended together. Bonnets
are all to be worn with strings, and plush is more
spoken of than ever as favorite trimming. The mantles
will be very long, and mostly lined with bright linings,
such as crimson satin trimmed with fur and gathered in
many close rows of gathering at the neck and shoulders.
Winter stockings are most elaborate, and boots have fur
tops.
Your improved mode of locomotion by tramways
is to be introduced here. A very strong company is
being formed for the purpose. Comfortable as our
waggonettes are, the tram cars will be a great improve-
ment if only to do away with the jerky manner in which
onr living bodies are rattled over the uneven pave-
ments.
The suppression of Sunday trading is carried to
the extreme length in some localities which are es-
pecially under Sabbatarian influence, preventing the
sale of lemonade in fruit shops, while, strangely
enough.'The sale of fruit, cakes, sec., is permitted. The
line is drawn at anything drinkable, except water and
milk; and possibly the noise of popping corks disturbs
the religions mind. So great an interference with the
habits of the people, I fear, will lead to a reactiod in
favour of Sabbath-breaking all round.
The Commissioner of Railways has renounced
the doctrine of patronage and its corruptions! and in-
tends to live cleanly henceforth. I wonder if those
criticts who are singing his praises for this act of self-
abnegation recollect that Sir James M Culloch proposed
to dissever the management of railways from the poli-
tical head of the department altogether, and vest it in
Board or Commission, aud that Mr. Service came for-
ward with a similar scheme. After all, the act of the
Commissioner is but a feeble imitation of the reform
Sir James proposed, and its adoption by the present
Government proves once again that their policy is, and
has been for some time past, filched from their oppo-
nents.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
[BY ONE OF US.]
The Hon. Pope Cooper has been returned for
Bowen.
A rumour has reached us that all the Thorn*
borough magistrates can read and write.
The only Governor in Brisbane at present is the
Governor of the Gaol. He holds receptions daily.
Members of the legislature do not take railway
contracts directly, but many think [they do under the
Fassifem rose tree,
Townsville is to have a Municipal election in
February. Several ladies —“old women,” we mean-
are to be nominated.
One of the black trackers who took part in the
Glenrowan tragedy is in Townsville Gaol, for murdering
his wife. Too much gin, of course.
Architects and contractors do well in Brisbane,
but those who pay for the buildings complain of the
times. Very funny, but very true. •
The owners of the yachts Haidee, Rip, and
Amy have deposited a sweepstakes of £75 each for a
forty-mile race on Easter Monday next.
The last English mail was delivered in Brisbane,
via Sydney, within 43 days. The new mail service, for
which the country voted over £50,000, will take fifty-six
days.
A boatraoe in string-test gigs, between crews
from the Queensland National and Australasian Banks,
resulted in an easy win for the representatives of the
National.
The Town Clerk of Charters Towers was ar-
rested on a charge of embezzling Municipal moneys.
Bail was allowed. W. P. Morgan will act for the
defendant.
. Mr. W. Hill, Curator of the Botanic Gardens,
retires on a snug pension, after 26 years’ service, ha
February next. ' He will be succeeded by Mr. Bailey,
the botanist.
Robberies are almost unknown in this colony, and
it is a novelty to hear of one about Brisbane. This is
not so much due to police supervision as to the scarcity
of anything worth stealing.
A footrace took place on Sunday, the 16th inst.,
at the Hamilton, between Scott and Donovan, for a
fiver a-side. Scott won. The event was witnessed by a
large number of spectators.
The National schools were set agoing on Monday
once more, and notwithstanding Bishop O’Quinn’s
manifesto and the replies thereto, the youngsters appear
equally as ravinous for fruit and mischief as ever.
Alderman Graham, of South Brisbane, says he
acts: as clerk of the course for the Q.T.G., which ought
to satisfy his constituents without making speeches im
the council. The reporters agree with him at any rate.
Brisbane money-lending: is of a very diversified
character, the bulk, doled out at 60 to 150 per cent, by
the magisterial agents, belongs to a few hypercritical
wretches who prefer the big interest to the publicity of
their names.
It is not likely Messrs. Lesser, Cowlishaw,
Porky Last, Dawbarn, Petty, Mooney, and Johnston,
will take offence at the Government withdrawing State-
aid to Denominational Schools, and open one on their
own account.
Proprietors of unlicensed houses, where bottles
of grog are sold, are not fined in this colony. It is the
servants receiving the money (who are dealt with at
the police court. This keeps some of our magistrates’
names off the black list.
Dick Hutchins and Johnny Duncan did not fight
a duel after all. However, this did not disappoint many,
for it was generally believed they were too fond of them-
selves —in fact, it is said they shake hands with them-
selves every morning.
A swell policeman named Lloyd, stationed at
Maryborough, has just introduced some fresh mules
into police work there. The residents object, and con-
sider their own police donkeys enough to bear up
against, without this fresh addition.
The proprietors of the Brisbane Courier are
contemplating an evening penny paper, which will run
away with (not the business of the Telegraph, but) a
lot of the Queenslander profits, if the Courier’s
present political policy is maintained.
An excursion was given in Townsville on New
Year’s Day. One gentleman on board was asked by
several of the company to sing. " What shall I sing ?”
he asked; and a young and pretty lady calmly said,
“ You may kiss me and caress me." And he did.
Slander continues to run high, as is usually the
case in small places. If a lady is in the question it
makes no difference to Brisbaneites. Queensland gal-
lantry is proverbial for being subservient to its pro-
clivity for slander, envy, and do a bad turn when yon can.
Mr. F. A. Cooper has been appointed to revise
the Queensland Statutes. It is not certain whether the
Statutes wanted revising, or whether Fred wanted a
billet. Certain it is, however, that he did receive the
said billet just before he was about drawing on his
banker.
Some of the honorary magistrates about Bris-
bane who are out of collar, or, in other words, with
lots of time at their disposal, complain bitterly of the
small number of fire inquests held nowadays. They
get, or rather expect to get, a guinea a sitting. Hono-
rary, very!
In Townsville, on the 13th, 14th, and 15th, the
thermometer stood at 108 degrees in the shade, and 149
degrees in the sun. The thermometer ranged the same
from 10.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. When The Bulletin
comes, what wonder then that the town should melt in
pure delight!
A civil servant, with plenty of cheek and lots of
tin, complains of the heat in the middle of the day, and
threatens to resign if the Registrar-General, or some-
one else, does not supply him with an extra large ging-
ham to protect his bald head from the sun while he
does Queen-street, share-broking (on his own account, of
course).
The Townsville Herald, in its “ Local
Brevities,” said the other day:—“The editor of the
Townsville Herald is a tall man—the proprietor is
not a tall man.” The opposition rag, the Standard.
remarked: —“ The printer who set up that par. made an
error; it should have read: ‘ The proprietor is not ef
all a man,’ ” The Herald is silent.
A nice little game of cricket took place on the
19th at Brisbane between the Pubs, or rather the Mugs,
of Brisbane and the Muffs. Three very hot members
at the business worked the oracle and got enrolled
among the Muffs, planted a softy on to back their side
before showing their hands, made ducks and drakes of
the Mugs, and won the money. Such a lot of funny
people in Brisbane.
The Premier, the Colonial Secretary, the Minister
for Lands, the Postmaster-General, the leader of the
Opposition, the Hon. C. Mein, the Chief Justice, Judge
Priug, Bishop O’Qninn, Bishop Stanton, Judge Paul,
the Commissioner of Police, the Under-Sheriff, the
Government Auctioneer, and several limbs of the law
are-shirking the hot weather, and are absent from the
colony—on business, of course. Hookey Wqlker!
Aland defeated Taylor for Toowoomba and
Drayton, although the Government party used most
strenuous efforts to secure Taylor’s return. Electors
at Warwick were provided with free passes and a pound
to record their votes in favor of Taylor. The local
paper says that not a few availed themselves of the
proffered bribe, and afterwards voted for Aland. It has
not transpired to what extent Aland’s party flung round
the dollars.
Crime in New York last year decreased 25 per
cent.
There are over eighty-four millions in the two
continents of America.
Repeating magazine rifles are being adopted in
the armies of France, Austria, Switzerland, Norway,
and Russia.
A million gallons of water is used at the Mel bourne
Exhibition daily, for the machinery, watering the ponds,
&o. The supply is to he greatly cut down.


Public Companies
C
OMMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY OP
SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1843.
Capital, £575,000. Reserve Fund, £580,000.
Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office—George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B.
Qaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F, H. Dangar,
Esq.; P. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.—Adeloug, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Benima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Cootamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Qermanton, Glen
Innes, Goulbum, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed Hirer), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Qnirindi,
Eichmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lers wang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodkurn, Yass,
Yoxmg. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane. Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Eockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of south Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Von Dieman’s Laud.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand,
Agencies betond the Colonies.
London ; The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland; The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bunk of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Cetlon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India. Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs, Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTOEIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BEANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon nrinciples
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM, MASSON
Eesident Secretary.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STEEET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049.
Directors:
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M Q., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P, I Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J. J.P. | E. J. Eubie, Esq,
T. R. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPAETMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIEE DEPAETMEN T. —Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PEEMIUMS ON BOTH FIEE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BEAY.
Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
WEDDING PRESENTS, BIRTHDAY GIFTS, BRIDAL TROUSEAUX—
The most Fashionable and Stylish class of Goods in the City of Sydney.
Peapes and Shaw are now making a Grand Display of
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the SEASON, as follows
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
IN
REAL AND IMITATION
LACE GOODS.
PAY A VISIT
OF
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
REAL SEALSKIN
AND
PLUSH BAGS AND
PURSES.
LADIES'
SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BOXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NE PLUS LEATHER DESKS
ASSORTED SCENT CASKETS
ROYAL CABINETS OF GAMES
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CASKET
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARRINGS
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING CASES
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRACKETS
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET GLASSES
LADIES’ FANS FOR DRESS OR PROMENADE
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS HOLDERS
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF BOXES
CRIBBAGfcE BOARDS AND ROULETTES
LADIES’ Fitted TRAVELLING BAGS
BOUDOIR TIDIES—A “ NOVELTY"
COMBINATION JEWEL CASES
DRAWING-ROOM INK TRAYS
CARVED WOOD BRACKETS
COMPENDIUM OP GAMES
FRENCH STATUETTES
MUSICAL BOXES
PHOTO. ALBUMS
POCKET BOOKS
LETTERCASES
NECKLETS
PURSES
&c. &c.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CELEBRATED
“ FLORA" KID GLOVES
■ Six Pairs for 18/6,
in elegantly scented sachet.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
COSTUMES
Are celebrated throughout
the colonies.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CHARM ISO
MILLINERY
CANNOT be EXCELLED
ANYWHERE.
Do you want to MAKE A PRESENT to a Lady or a Gentleman ?
If yon do, PAY A VISIT TO
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Public Companies
The mercantile bank op Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1673
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £llO,OOO
DIRECTORS :
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, G.M.G.
Hon. Wa. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson,
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
lOENWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
-1 ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
Q. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
318 GEORGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
The national mutual fire
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA (Limited).
Established 1869.
The only Life Office in the Australian colonies which
has been conducted on PURELY MUTUAL PRIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and Co.), Chairman.
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Biddulph, and Alsop).
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made by the Association
belongs to the policyholders, and is divided among them
every THREE YEARS. The bonuses declared have
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY F. FRANCIS, Resident Secretary.
G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per 11).
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at.
Canterbury.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-strekt) near King-street,
L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
E. CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
-Mi
SOLE MAN UFACTUEEE S:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCOED WOEKS.
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORK|S,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Dt lve , snbs t ltute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; it
and P iore S ’ ?“ d Can £ by ** y “teUteent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clea^m
“f: ™k ® 1 P. 8 ’ a " d >„ when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
cuWc feet * he quantlty of tallow nsed and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make lOC
process Is "" Mamlfact °7' We undertake to make gas and instruct some] one in the
«AJv - ? T ’ C ? - u l ®® beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, wMchMiTthe "'ollfllfr
ft P re y e uts all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
1879 80 This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney'
A
m
m
i m
OBE THE BIST IN THE WORLD I VUfi
W. DAVIES Sc Cf couiBURH.NS.fi I
m
ACKMOWUDCCB
MA HUFA CTUKED
BY
f|IHE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
IV K
%
'k
'.'-v.
tarnriM
ECOWOM'CAL
gra
hr
THE PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and i gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
EtJBBEE PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC ETTBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards —one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMSTEONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STEEET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
jy/j' URPHY AND
IMPORTERS OF
SON,
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
tolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas.
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Shiver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, Ac., &c.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT. READY FOR USE, ANT SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
Gr.
A. S M I T
88 KING STREET
(From Rotherham’s, London),
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
H,
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under G. A. S.’s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXFORD STREET.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
1.9 3 OXFORD STREET
adv
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
IHE GREAT PROMENADE FOR LADIES
KING-STREET.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Prints at 3|d per yard.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costumes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon Marchs Wool Beiges at s|d, 7Jd, 9|d per
yard.
See the Bon Marche New Linen Costume Cloth at 7Jd
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing this season
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, a
seasonable goods in our windows—
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.


Business Announc
W. H - p A
T * PIANOFORTE WAR]
352 George-stree
PIANOFORTES. PIA;
JUST RECEIVED. JUSI
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE
A splendid stock to self
EVERT RENOWNED
AMERICAN OEG
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and sp
OVER ALL OTH
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATION
HARMONICA
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENO’
in all the various m
A FEW GOOD SECOND-H
at low prices, now in
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Ha
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters
and Warren’s, and Smith and (
352 GEORGE S'!
Opposite Wynyard-s
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO I
260 and 262 GEORGE-S
(over Peate and Hare
Now open to the Public. The hig!
Photographs, Oil Paintings, C<
Crayon Water Colours, anc
will be produce!
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fa<
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respei
Tobacconists
J A M
E S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf
Best Imported Brai
Havana and Manilla-
Pipes Mounted and R(
159 PITT STE
Next Post Office
TIN TAG TOBA
None are genuine but the E(
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEI
DIXSON & SOX
155 YORK STREET.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGA
MILD, FRAGRANT, & I
&
vs
Manufactured by
T. S A YW E 1
AT THE
EAGLE TOBA C C (
Clarence-street, Sy<
JHO S. J. BOW
ENGINEERS, BRASSED
Importers of
lAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SA
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
Chemists and Dm
t i.
■s
ÜBL I C
N
THE following Lis
WATSON’S RENOWNED P.
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antil
Watson’s (Vegetable) Won
Watson’s Gingerbread Wor
Watson’s Compound Chlor<
Watson’s Strengthening Ej
Watson’s Australian Vermi
Watson’s Excelsior Tootha
Watson’s Concentrated Go'
Elixir (a most valuable
can be obtained, wholesale and re
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STRI
POTHECARIE
14 OXFORD STRE
Near Htde Park C
(N.B.—The Tram-car stopi
W. D. EAMES, Pb
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEN
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of t
Societies of Victoria and New
Uwadto# = =
KR
HE
OT
AP
W. D. E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded h
Chemists and Drag
AKE NO MOE
but try
RANDEESON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZE
Bo you SUPPER from HEADA
Then try Rs
podophyll;
Do you Complain of Indigestion
Take a few doses of I
podophyll:
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and 1
RANDEESOK
Do you constantly suffer from B
If so remember
PODOPHYLI
will soon cure, if taken as di
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICI
Are any'of your children sick a
can safely give them one o:
for the small members of i
TAKE WEL]
tar Remember this, and always
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pro-
EDWARD ROW and C<
45 and 47 George-str
Y EOYAL LETTEI
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTI
Guaranteed to hi
Free from all poisonous qualitie
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Plants
in the Bush of New Sout
This Ointment is not a mere cat
public, nor does it require any puff
as it has been so well proved for th
that it is impossible that the public
long deceived. In fact, people are n
lous regarding its efficacy (never 1
article of the kind before which i
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the mi
High and low, rich and poor, have
fits from its use, and scarcely anj
found without it: and
JOSBPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the cc
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF TE
which, taken altogether, prove the A
to be the Eighth Wonder of the W
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, c
hands and lips, bunions, soft corr
casualities attending the human fn
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA]
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perfc
Josephson’s Australian Ointment?
Who would suffer from External!
may be cured by using Josephson
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly for
son's Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns ar
can have immediate relief by ap;
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriat
tion when a remedy like Jose]
Ointment can be obtained H
Who would suffer from Piles v
Josephson’s Australian Ointment if
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fr
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK POE JOSEPHSON’S 1
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and store!
and Is 6d each throughout the cole
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD RO
rIENTE AL PH
) va sai Ttrwft an


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE if KETAIL IMPORTERS
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
JJLADON’S HEALTH Si
JgLADON’S HEALTH Si
JJLADON’S HEALTH Si
JJLADON’S HEALTH SA
JgLADON’S HEALTH SA
JgLADON’S HEALTH SA
LA DON’S HEALTH SA
JJLADON’S HEALTH SA
Bladon’s health sa:
A combination of Oxygeuat
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and
Taken according to direct!
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
rational remedy as a preventive 01
all Functional Irregularities of tl
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habit
purities of the Blood, Sea-S
Indigestion, the effects propuce
dulgence in rich food, or the
beverages ;Gout, Rheumatism, &i
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diph
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic,
diseases. It is especially service
and should entirely supersede 1
aperients. Children take it wit
vigorating effect of ah occasional
to successfully combat the insidio
It effectually destroys the Poison
contracted in our daily walk thr
alterative and enriching qualities
the vital fluid to perform, in a hea
functions in the wonderful econon
piece—Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chet
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH
may justly be termed a BLOOD D
BY THI
yy PPBOYED
Governme
10th
“ Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I
that the parcel was received in g
reason of my not writing to you be
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ sh
am now directed to inform you
considers it MOST EFFICACIOD
“ I also can vouch for the same, a
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Yours fait
“ Reginal
“ Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
gLADON’S HEALT
The Australian Church
“ It is a.
MOST REFRESHING EFFER V
We can honestly recom
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUF
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FR
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON,
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered botth
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH. AND.GEf
WHAT IS THE EESHL1
H own goods and paying cas
IT NOT STAND to reas
enabled to give our customers the
And WHERE ARE THOSE who
tage of the inducements offered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would
and we again issue a free invitati
and customers to come and see the
which has just been brought forwai
of every class and description, selei
by our London Agents, who 1
thoroughly at heart, and know exac
FOR COLLECTION AND YA
Furnishing Arcade has long stood i
ing constantly brought before the
a choicest and novel description,
a lasting reputation. PARTIES DE
choice and beautiful goods should
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, vario
double—Wardrobes, plate-glass,
men’s, with all the latest oonvi
brass and enambled, brass mom
also flowered, with the new extend
Sanitory Spiral Spring or Elasti
tresses, recommended by all d
single and double, in all the n
American Furniture, in Walnut
Suites—Beautiful Inlaid Walnu
boards—Whatnots, in all the new
fancy—Suites made to order
materials—An extraordinary nnr
and Girandoles, in very pretty fra
Leg Centre, Card, and Occasio
machd goods of every descripth
Companions—Ladies’ Work boxes.
Jewel Caskets—Musical Boxes,
NCE USED ALW
i BiJS
Trademark "Arm and Dolly” on
out which none is genuine. Bet
IMi
■i-
ALWA)
SP
TRADE
MAR
The GRAND GOLD MEI
HIGHEST MEDAL, Pi
HIGHEST AWARD, Sy
LATHERS FREELY, SOFT
AND SHOULD ALWAYS I
For Washing Clothes, Linen, I
For Sconrinu Floors, Ciraaatr -V
Sydneys cheapest market for good
ning street*** ew ’ ■®' as hi° na ble, Reliable Drapery is in
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
MARCHE, and see the beautiful
BONNETS, frdm 12s 6d, MILLINERY
4 TOm i.® H d * CHILDREN'S COSTUMES from
.Js Hd, Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d, Ladies Corsets
trom Is lid. Ladies' White Cotton Hose from 4id per
pair. Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, (Moves, Fischus, Baby-
linea. Underclothing, &c., cheaper than any othe-
house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
A faint poeket-book never won a fair lady.
Worthy of sober consideration—Temperance
question.
The man mistook sulphuric acid for whisky, and
lifts now a horror of strong drinks.
Give me the hand that will never deceive me
sings the poet. He alludes to four aces.
You’ve seen a true bow—yes, and a Thackam-
baw. N.B. — Enquire Evening News Office.
The young man who was kicked out of his girl’s
house very properly styled her father a freebooter.
Made of the mist—drizzling rain.—Maid of the
mister—his sweetheart. Made of the mystery—hash.
Jacob is said to have married the two daughters
of Laban, because he was satisfied with one mother-in-
law.
His name was Harp, and when he was convicted
of murder, they said there'd soon be another string for
We see advertised a book entitled “ Memoirs of
a Stomach. Is it true that this work is by an alder*
man r
Albert Smith once wrote his initials in a hotel
register. A wag wrote just underneath, “ Two-thirds
*f the truth.
A Frenchman saw a negro smoking a new
meerschaum. “Thunder!” he exclaimed; “why the
pipe s colouring him.”
• “ 1 believe in bananas in the abstract but not in
the concrete,” said the old gentlemen, as he painfully
arose from the asphalte walk.
We see the “ Star Shirt Laundry ” advertised.
-But who would be so reckless asterisk his linen in a
concern with such a name P
A beggar held out his hand. “ I haven’t a
penny, ' said the gentleman. "I did not. specify the
coin, responded the mendicant.
A country editor calls another a foul-mouthed
scoundrel; and the other says that the first would be
one; too, if he didn’t wash it out so often.
“Jane,” he said, “I think if you lifted your
feet away from the fire we might have some heat in the
room. And they hadn’t been married long.
Denis Flynn, ex-policeman, anxiously sought
for, but cannot be found,” says an exchange. Denis
evidently thinks he is still in the “ fooroe.”
A man who is as true as steel, possessing an iron
mil, some gold, and a fair proportion of brass, should
be able to endure the hardware of this world.
® wa Jl growing dark, and Mr. Filers did not
•bscrve Mrs. B. in the room when he kissed the rosy-
elf ectbm SerVant N ° bair restorers have yet proved
“ Your coffee doesn’t settle quickly,” was the
,ike some of‘myjboarders.” was
the reply of the boarding-house woman. And he spako
■ever again. r
It is claimed that a man never loses anything bv
but this has proved a mistake. As an old
.gentleman .lifted his hat to a young lady the wind car-
nea away his wig.
. W. J. Clarke’s income would allow of his visit-
ing in one week 1,000 circuses, eating 4,000 turkeys, and
SeffiJ ° f “ ADd tbe “
We always admired masquerade balls. It’s so
?' ce squeeze a little lump of condensed sweetness
for one straight hour, and then find out you’ve only
been hugging yonr wife. J y
Aqnaok doctor advertises “ to treat patients by
1? , , ‘ . M the patient is a female, letter B would be
the best letter for her—unless she is blind; then we
would suggest letter C.
“ Eugenie Eugenie, will you still insist on wear-
VKjf?" of “"other woman on your head ?” ” Alphonse,
fnntb?.™!* 0 yOU stlll . ln sist on wearing the skin of
another calf upon your feet ?
The room was poorly lighted.
He couldn’t see, he said.
And when he tried to kiss her mouth
He bit her nose instead.
It is a proud boast when a man can say “ mv
SnW a8 ?, y bond ” The Sultan ot Turkey is
a man in that enviable position. His word is quite us
good as his bond. Anyone can see that.
cl S r^ m «n have lately been sent to
gaol m England, that Onr Vicar is in Quod ” has
8"?fr fi st6d as an appropriate first line for a hymn
to be sung by their bereaved congregations.
Take oif papa’s heavy flannels.
Summer’s voice is in the air;
Bo not let our loving parent
Broil for want of proper care.
Science enumerates nearly six hundred species
of orgamc forms in the air we breathe. Just think of
it [Every time you draw in a breath a whole zoological
garden slips down yonr windpipe, and uo free tickets to
xii.0 press.
The editor of the Observer, an Auckland paper,
anB SSSn* 8 ? Wr0t S : T^ e mother of the two charming
and prettily di essed children I sometimes see in Queen-
street has good reason to he proud of them.” Where-
wWi Vbig stick the lady ' S busband went for the scribe
lady , art ( is i m amed a young gentleman
artist. The uncle of the bride made a call upon them
them sitting in opposite comers of their
joint studio, in the sulks, the husband saying that his
wife s waist was out of proportion, and the wife saying
that her husband s nose was too small. 6
Everybody has heard of the jolly Dutchman
whe " the steamboat wis likely to sink, succeeded,
after much trouble, in finding a life-preserver large
enough to fit him. While he was trying his best to •
tt up, a young fellow standing by said: “ Yon
Bsis ?” U « leaks ‘ r>0 "’ t y°« hear
I 1 ®*/, Ishdotso? he replied. “Veil, I dinks,
den, I keep de vind in myself.”
A milliner named Turner, in large business in
hondon, was recently fined £21 for employing, contrary
to law. live young women after the hour 4 o’clock in the
afternoon on a Saturday.
TOO OFTEN THE CASE.
To gain her passing fancy 'twas I swore.
In language set in tender vows and sighs,
1 lored her more than man e’er loved before:
And she believed my lies. '
Althmigh she loved me not, her heart was stirred
With pity for my wild, fictitious woe ■
And never in my love-life have I heard
A more delicious No!
What had I done had she not answered No ?
Why, married her of course! Tis nothing queer;
Une sees false-heerted lovers marry so
A thousand times a year.
January 29, I85j


“Dolly.”
„ was a man—at least—well, any way, he wore coats
d trousers. He was the pride of a bank, and the
*? nrv of the block. And his name was Dolly. Having
this -7 patronymic not go and hide himself, and
i ve m the gloom of the world on yams and acoms.
Vot at all. All his spare cash —that meant all he could
vvtrow—he spent on personal adornment; and all his
1 *ire time he spent on the block. He was well-looking,
lad a little moustache, and any amount of cheek. So
P laid himself out for money—and he got it, with
father a plain girl to boot. The bride had £lO,OOO in
her own right although a minor. It was a miner’s right
I-and he got it without even paying the ten shillings.
But we are anticipating. He had never anything to
lose before his marriage, and after it he carried on the
tame system —he wasted no time. Money not being an
object, ‘.he wasted that, and soon became the curled
darling of a big southern city. When he leisurely
uaced Collins-street, a walking bower of scent aud
flowers, he was the cynosure of every eye. Belles, who
vnew him, of course, to be married, languished for him;
and during the first month of his reign, every pavement
nymph came out in bronze boots and a new parasol.
At the mention of his name questionable houses had
their facades painted, and all the more notorious demi-
reps were on the free-list at Gaunt’s and Brush’s. He
was flattered and caressed by all who could get any.
thing out of him; and ridiculed by all who couldn’t,
ge was lavish to all—and charitable —only his charity
didn’t begin at home. The cabmen adored him; to the
cafe-keepers he was a god; and the barmaids used to
wonder amongst themselves if the people they read
about “up there ” wore only half such nice patent
leather boots. The months ran out—so did the money;
—and in the end “Dolly” being to all intents
and purposes a “broker;” having, in short, noth-
ing but his wardrobe (which included his front), he
sailed for the old country. While mouching around
London, living on his jewellery, he encountered a friend
who had known him in his splendour. By this friend
he was introduced to a rich widow lady living at The
q , Norwood. She fell in love with him—he with her
fortune. He couldn’t marry her, but —he did the next
thing to it. Then began the old game—only in London
this time. It lasted until her cash and his credit were
gone; then, with the generosity which was the leading
characteristic of his noble nature, he left the rich (now
poor) widow, and migrated back to the colony. He did
not dare return to the city, but roamed about the bush.
and chopped wood for the free selectors.
But one day, just as he (clad in a ragged
pair of moleskin pants) was wolfing a
hunk of salt beef, the news came that a
small tract of land which belonged
to his wife’s mother was supposed
to have been merely worth some hun-
dreds was found to be a bed of alluvial
gold—an Eldorado, worth millions. On
receipt of this intelligence, he humped
his swag, and returned to his wife, who
forgave everything ; so now well—
“ Dolly is again on the block ” !
A Sydney Tragedy.
The house is a one-storied building of
no pretentions whatever as to architec-
tural beauties, and few as to outward
embellishment even as regards com-
parative cleanliness. Someone’s name
—possibly a professional’s has, at
some period, been painted in legible
caps, on a black ground. The stucco
fayade of the house—which adjoins that
of Tom Punch —in Elizabeth-street,
bears marks of the growing taste for art
that is being developed in the juvenile
aulstion of thevoisinage. It is em-
ished with various crude but tell-
ing sketches of local celebrities and
occurrences, delineated in a spirited
manner in chalks of various colours
and charcoal of a beautiful blackness.
The house is furnished comfortably—
from a workman’s point of view: that
s, all the furniture that looks any good
is too rickety to sit down upon, and
the rest of the meuhles is composed of
those fearful deal and pine monstro-
sities which daily terrify the aesthetic
wanderer when exposed outside the
Pitt-street furniture shops. The deed
was perpetrated in the yard, and the
green-eyed monster was—as he is in
so many similar cases —the cause of all
the trouble. It appears that Alfred
Borgnis, a short, rather stout carpent
■er, occupied the premises with his wife,
and that they had one lodger, a
“ commission agent,” named William
Henry Newton. The husband has been
long and favorably known in the colony
as a steady man, a good name being
cheerfully accorded him in all the
towns in which he has worked, which,
we understand, include Maitland, Single-
ton, and Newcastle. The cause, so far
as we can gather, of the assault (which
has been admitted by Borgnis) is that
he had reason for being jealous for a
considerable period of -his lodger, •
Newton. On Monday, however, to add
to his other troubles, he missed a sov-
ereign from his purse, which he taxed
his wife with abstracting. In reply
she stated—and this statement is corro-
borated by senior-constable Macintosh
in his evidence, when the accused ap-
peared before the Central Police Court
in answer to a charge of murdering his
wife with intent on Tuesday—that she
had given the money to a lawyer named
Cooke. On the evidence being given,
the prisoner was asked if he had any
questions to put to the arresting con-
stable. He stood up then in front of
the dock, without a collar, with his
shabby serge coat partially unbuttoned;
but yet there was something in his
appearance which favourably impressed
the spectators. Even when herded with
nearly a score of drunkards in the same
dock, prior to the commencement of the
proceedings, his face might have been
easily picked out by even a tyro at physiognomy as
not belonging to the criminal —at any rate, the ad-
vanced criminal—class. He showed no bravado, but
merely said: “ The constable has stated the facts
correctly. I did it under the strongest provocation.” He
was then formally remanded for a week, and removed
to the cells. At the next hearing, facts, we understand,
will be elicited which will prove —if anything further be
needed to prove —that the inner life of this great city
is pervaded by an atmosphere of very questionable
morality.
A Lavender Bay Sensation.
Professor Cavill’s baths at Lavender Bay (which are
new very popular on account of their excellent manage-
ment), were the scene on Thursday last —that very hot
day—of considerable excitement. Between 10 a.m. and
1 p m. each day the baths are open for the exclusive use
of ladies, the presence of gentlemen being of course
tabooed. About 11 o’clock on Thursday, while the
noble Professor was superintending the natatory
struggles of several fair ones, he noticed that the door
of one of the dressing rooms was continually on the
move without anyone appearing, and at last he caught
a glimpse of a masculine face. Before ten seconds had
elapsed the Professor was after that face, the owner of
which “ made tracks.” Not being able to escape to the
back on that side of the dressing-rooms, he was obliged
to take to the water, the Professor following in hot
chase. The fugitive made for the beach, and had to
pass near to the fair disporters, who showed signs of
great alarm. The Professor was very close by this
time, and the escapee had to swerve aside to elude his
grasp. The occupants of the water now got consider-
ably mixed up, the fugitive dodging toe Professor
among the fair ones, and diving and splashing and
screaming were the order of the day. The Professor
made a dash, but, being half blinded with spray, caught,
not his quarry, but one of the demoiselles, who there-
upon fainted. While attending to her, the cause of the
trouble had time to get ashore and escape into the scrub
above. The Professor, however, recognised the tawny
moustache and imperial of the intruder, and duly “ went
for him "in toe evening. “ Sticking-plaister for one."
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Prince of Wales is 39 years old.
Baron Maclay has arrived in Sydney.
Gambetta has a premature look of old age.
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., receives .£3OO a year
as Government whip.
Mr. Willian Lant Carpenter, 8.A., F.C.S., is
in Dunedin, N.Z., lecturing.
Mr. Millais, the great English painter, returned
his income last year at £7OOO.
Swinburne is about to issue a new volume of
poems called “ Studies in Song.”
Mr. M‘Arthur, the new Lord Mayor of London,
is the first Irishman that has filled the office.
It is stated that Yerdi, the handsome baritone,
is a son of the Rev. A. L. Green, a Jewish Rabbi of
London.
Lieut. Nathan, N.S.W.A., sustained a severe
sprain to his foot, and has been confined to his room for
some time.
The World says that “ the Czar is threatened
with blindness, and that it is doubted if he will obtain
any relief by an operation.”
“ Dagonet” says that, “apart from his objection
to get drunk and his partiality to tracts and Sunday-
schools, Lord Mayor M’Arthur is a very respectable
man.”
Colonel Scratchley and Colonel Roberts have
been engaged at the Heads during the past week direct-
ing operations for the trenches which are to protect the
batteries.
Our old friend Henri Rochfort is now one of the
most picturesque men in Paris. His stock of curly
hair is white as snow, and his black eyes have a burning
brightness.
Archibald Forbes, the famous war correspon-
dent, is attracting immense audiences in New York.
Seats for his lectures have to be engaged a fortnight
beforehand.
Dr. Renwick invites the members of the Legisla-
tive Assembly, and the Directors of the Infirmary, to a
banquet, to celebrate the laying, in February, of the
foundation stone of that institution.
The late Mr. A. K. Smith, of Melbourne, whose
death was announced last week, was a prominent mem-
ber of the craft, and was interred with full Masonic
honors. The ceremony was very interesting.
Says a London correspondent:—“l saw Mr.
and Mrs. Cross (George Eliot) driving in the park the
other day. She looks vastly better than she did during
the time she was so anxious about George Lewes’ health,
and after his death. Her face then was a map of sor-
row ; now it is the map of the Cape of Good Hope.”
Mr. E. W. Minchen, who has rendered good
service as secretary to the Art Society of New South
Wales, has retired from the position. Mr. Thomas
Phillips succeeds him. Mr. Minchen remains as a
member of the council of the society. Mr. James
Dalgamo has been elected as a member of the council.
A funny thing, and a very funny thing, occurred
at a Royal Academy dinner at the Mansion House,
London, the other day. The Duke of Cambridge was
invited. He came, and the regiment of which he is
colonel didn’t salute him. He was unannounced, and
they didn’t know him by sight. That was funny, wasn’t
it?
Concerning Lord Beaconsfield’s new book, “En-
dymion,” a smart London writer says that “ this work
of the Earl is not nearly so good as the earlier works.
‘ Endymion' seems to be a sort of Mother Shipton’s
prophecies adapted to politics, with the extra advantage
of all the prophecying being done after instead of
before, you know.”
The services to the colony of poor Gerard
Krefft, late curator of the Australian Museum, and his
enthusiasm in the cause of science should entitle him,
now that he is sick “ on a lee shore,” to everybody’s
compassion. Mr. J. S. Bray, of the Intercolonial Life
Association, George-street, will gladly acknowledge all
subscriptions forwarded in aid of Mr. Krefft.
Mr. Frank Bennett has purchased the splendid
residence of Mr. W. B. Dailey, overlooking Rose Bay.
The edifice, which is of a palatial character, cost Mr.
Dailey many anxious days, for he personally superin-
tended its erection, and, as it were, just as the last
stone was laid his great domestic bereavement oc-
curred. The house commands an unsurpassed view of
the harbour and surrounding country.
Lord Beaconsfield got £ lO,OOO for his new novel,
“ Endymion.” That is not, after all, an extravagant
sum. Years ago Wilkie Collins got £BOOO for “ Artni-
dale.” Then George Eliot was paid £BOOO for “ Middle-
march,” and £BOOO for “ Daniel Deronda,” Stanley got
£5OOO for “ Across the Dark Continent.” Few, however,
can expect anything like the handsome cheque paid to
Lord Macaulay for his History of England. But that cele-
brated £20,000 was the outcome of a life of study and
research.
By the Hydaspes, to-day, Mr. Justice Faucett,
who, by his great legal knowledge and stern impar-
tiality, has long adorned the N.S.W. Bench, —pro-.
bably the purest bench anywhere to be found —leaves for
Europe, where he will remain during a period of twelve
months, in order to recruit his health, which has given
way under the pressure of his judical duties. Judge
Faucett carries with him not only our best wishes for
his quick recovery and for his general welfare, but
those of every respectable member of society in the
colony, which has so much benefited by his long and
arduous services.
The Miranda has arrived at Melbourne en route
to Sydney. Her gallant commander, the Honorable
Captain Dawson, belongs to the "Prince of Wales’
set,” and was one of the select seventy-five bachelors
who gave that very grand ball last year to their Royal
Highnesses at Kensington House —the arrangements for
which were on such a grand scale that several thou-
sands of the “ upper ten ” were admitted by cards the
next day to inspect the decorations, Ac. Capt. Dawson
acted as treasurer with such success that his colleagues
presented him with a souvenir for his financial skill.
N.B. —Labby intends to leave a card.
Undoubtedly the greatest character in Adelaide
is Mr. Prank Skeffington Carroll, editor and proprietor
of the Adelaide Lantern. This journal is, to tell the
truth, not a very brilliant specimen of journalism, being
chiefly composed of advertisements and a rough two-
page political litho, in which all the portraits stare at
one another in a state of ;the highest surprise. The
responsible editor, Mr. Carroll, doesn’t write much
himself, his energies being chiefly confined to (we use
his own expression) “raking in the spondulix.” At
times, however, Frank does write; but this is generally
when he has “collared” a “thumping” ad. from a
newly-started publican, when he writes his par. always
in the same words, beginning—“ It is with pleasure we
hear that Mr. Blank has become lessee of that popular
hostelrie known as ” etc. Once he tried dramatic
criticism —but only once; and his critique has been a
standing joke against him ever since. Under the head-
ing of amusements he wrote one solitary line —“ White’s
Rooms is closed.” The “ copy ”is principally supplied
by a compositor named Lee, and Mr. Villeneuve Smith,
the barrister, and as these people appear to regard it
as a matter of conscience to blackguard everybody, the
old gentleman—we mean Mr. Carroll —receives enough
Supreme Court writs in the course of the year to paper a
stable with. Mr. Carroll, who is really a good-natured
fellow, is popularly known in Adelaide as the “ Majah,”
a sobriquet given him on account of his military
appearance. On the appearance of every Lantern,
Carroll is always insulted, and not nnfrequently
hammered. He always carries a big stick, and on being
attacked, pounds at his assailant’s head, at times with
marked success. Mr. Carroll is now, we understand,
endeavouring to turn his journal into a Bulletin. We
trust he may succeed. We always like to wish a man
success when he wants it.
Anthony Hordern and Sons’ Palace Store, at
theHaymarket, certainly the first edifice of the kind in
the colonies, is nearing completion. It is a splendid
structure. The firm keep true to their motto, " While
I live I’ll grow."
The last Presidential election is claimed as a
protectionist victory.
One thousand six hundred and fifty- eight pas-
toral leases in N.S.W. expired in 1880. The new ap-
praisement of these runs cost £10,449 10s. 4d.
MARGINAL NOTES.
It has long been a favourite theory with many who are
tired and nauseated with the incessant wrangling of the
sects, that a cultured love and appreciation of Beauty in
its higher and purer forms might fittingly take the place
of a narrow sectarian belief. The great exponent of
spiritual pantheism, the poet Goethe, inclined so
decidedly to this idea that, although personally pos-
sessed of a deeply religious and reverential mind, he
unhesitatingly placed the instinct common to every
human soul, of a tendency towards the higher forms of
Beauty, above the dictates and impressions of the
acquired moral sense —at least in its more abstruse
manifestations. He exemplified his idea on the subject
by a very happy and poetical allusion. Quoting the
words, “ Consider the lilies of the field,” he points out
with much subtle plausibility that the softening and
refining influence exerted over the prepared mind by
the consideration of this simple manifestation of natural
beauty, the lily, is more directly and widely beneficial
in its results than would be an effort to practise
the high moral lesson conveyed in the counsel of
which the words quoted form a part. Probably
such an idea is grounded on a too unpractical and
characteristically poetic view of human nature. To the
ordinary matter-of-fact mind these emotions are hope-
less strangers, which, evoked in Wordsworth by the
sight of a dew-spangled daisy, called up in him a train
of thought from depths “ that lay too deep for tears.”
It is, nevertheless, a generally recognised fact, alike by
theologians and metaphysicians, that the germs of an
aesthetic sense are co-existent in every intelligence with
those of the moral sentiment, and that each is suscep-
tible ot culture in a relative degree. The history of old
Greece affords a striking instance of the working of
both these instincts. While on Colonna’s cape and in
the groves of the Academy Plato pondered in rapt
amaze the conclusions to which his logical research
had led him, with faculties refined and sharpened by a
course of self-denial and rigid obedience to the dictates
of his innate moral instinct, his freer and more natural
countrymen, following their national impulse—a love
and search for Beauty in its various forms —arrived at a
similar end, so far as essentials were concerned. While
the one attained to the speculative knowledge of a
Being pure, and sublimely one, over-ruling and directing
all, the rest discovered myriad forms of beauty, of
naiad and faun, of Psyche and Venus, presiding over
stream and forest —over the mental
attributes and the intellectually aesthe-
tic, as well as over the more evident
beauties of material form. It remained
for a degenerate and grosser age to
degrade the signification of what were
originally abstract types of the fruits of
cultured instinct and mental research
Though there may, perhaps, be two
opinions as to the alleged preeminence
of the aesthetic over the moral sense,
we fancy there can be but one as to the
value of the results accruing from a
proper fostering and educating of the
former. No agency can be so useful as
this in securing a refining and elevat-
ing effect, and in producing that “ more
fit and pleasing form of social life and
manners” so vehemently advocated by
the brilliant English essayist and
thinker, Arnold, in a late article of his
in the English reviews. This writer,
who may fairly be considered the most
advanced living exponent of this par-
ticular culture, laments in forcible
language the absence of due care on
the part of State and Church respec-
tively, for the discharge in this regard
of what he terms one of their first
duties. An enlightened and liberal
patronage of art, pure and undeflled,
on the one hand, and an endeavour to
place its enjoyments within the appre-
ciation and reach of all, on the other
form, perhaps the most immediate field
for the exercise of the efforts of the
former in this direction. The latter has
a wider and more deeply-set scope for
its powerful influence ; and we can
think of no more inviting position in
which to display the worth of eccle-
siastical institutions than those wherein
they are directed and used for the
development of a concomitant, religious,
and aesthetic sense. We do not speak
here of the soundness or otherwise of
any particular form of dogma. But to
our mind the more an ecclesiastical
system departs from the position
described, the more out of harmony it
places itself with the tradition on which
it seeks to found its raison d’etre. True
natural religion contains a strong
infusion of the spirit of the Beautiful,
and there can be no greater mistake
than that which excises from the out-
ward forms of a dogmatic creed those
graces of elegance and propriety which
enhance and give colour to the lessons
they may so fittingly illustrate.
There can be no doubt that, so far as
the Churches are concerned, Arnold’s
lament is not without justification.
In this particular, we think, the
ecclesiastical element shows itself
unfaithful to its high vocation. Suffi-
cient advantage is not taken of the rich
Liturgy of the Episcopal Church to
gratify, at least in part, the “baffled
and enslaved instinct of Beauty; ”
while, in too many cases, the strict
avoidance of any thing of an ornate
nature, in music or art, on the part of
many of the dissenting sects, precludes
the possibility of the introduction of
this welcome feature at all. When
Newman wrote his critique on Keble’s
“ Christian Year ” —the work so familiar
to churchmen in which an effort was
made to beautify and adorn the Anglican
Church with its traditional but some-
what disused liturgical charms—an
opinion was current that the encomiums
passed were made rather in a spirit of
quiet satire than in genuine earnest;
for though the critic spoke in terms
of unqualified admiration of the literary excellence of
the work, the allusions, so grotesquely inappropriate,
grated on the public ear as not being duly warranted by
the realities of sober fact. Thus, when the reviewer
pointed.out that as each day is consecrated according
to ritual by its special commemoration, there appeared
figuratively therein the eternal freshness of the morn-
ing ; and how men see in the ritual itself, as in a garden
before the sun has risen, the dewy freshness and loveli-
ness of flowers, it naturally occurred to the public
mind that both writer and critic must have been speak-
ing less of what really was than of what merely might
have been. In the old country, however —with its
Gothic temple and painted windows, with the scuptured
reredos and delicate tracery woven in stone, and the
thousand graces of architecture and charms of art
which lend their aid to heighten and expound the
mystic signification of the venerable institutions they
adorn much might be done by this agency to
foster an aesthetic sense. But whether it be
from the influence of the climate, or the natural
disposition of the people, it is certain that less atten-
tion has been given to this part of its duty by the
ecclesiastical element than might have been expected.
It is as though an edifice were clothed over buttress and
wall with a mantling cloak of ivy, through which the
diamond-paned windows gleam, and in which birds
build their nests; but the runners seem have been
severed-at the root, and the leaves are decayed and
withered, while their brilliancy of verdant colouring
has long since faded away.
But here in the antipodes we are beyond the aid
to any appreciable extent of these solemn old ecclesias-
tical traditions. The Christmas which has just passed,
with its peculiarly national festivities, very happily
marks our position in this respect as compared with
those of the older countries of the world. In other
lands this is as much a religions as a social festival. In
our own old “merrie England,” for instance, the
church service, interrupted by distracting visions of
good cheer, and impatiently heard though it be, is
yet an essential part ot the day’s proceedings. Not
less matters of rule are the sacred carols and the
joyous chimes of W'b which th“ "’"rri T 'g is
OUT IN THE COLD!
January 29, 1881.


K ATOOMBA! KATOOMBA!I
Messrs. RICHARDSON and WRENCH
have received
instructions from the proprietor,
F. CLISSOLD, Esq.,
to sell, on
FEBRUARY 12,
FEBRUARY 12,
FEBRUARY 12,
a portion of this
MAGNIFICENT ESTATE.
The following
ADDITIONAL and IMPORTANT PACTS
are now furnished.
THE PROPRIETOR
has decided on reserving a portion of the estate for a
TOWNSHIP,
facing the Railway Station,
to be called
THE KATOOMBA TOWNSHIP.
What has induced Mr, Clissold to found
THIS TOWNSHIP
on this
PATICULAR SPOT:'
The fact that here are to be had
IN ABUNDANCE
the very best description of
COAL
KEROSENE SHALE
FIRECLAY
MARBLE
TIMBER
BLUE METAL
SANDSTONE FOR BUILDING
CLAY FOE BEICKMAKING
THE PUREST OF WATER,
and the enticing advantage of a suitable soil and climate
on the high land for
ANY KIND OF ENGLISH FRUIT,
and on the low portions for
TROPICAL FRUITS.
The altitude, 3100 feet, preserves a
PURE ATMOSPHERE,
and FREEDOM from
MOSQUITOES and SANDFLIES.
Although this estate has been for many years
LOCKED UP,
there are on it,'erected in a substantial style, the
following PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
A POST OFFICE,
A TELEGRAPH OFFICE,
A LARGE HOTEL, in course of erection,
A PUBLIC SCHOOL, projected,
BUTCHERS’, BAKERS’, and GENERAL STORES
THE ESTATE
will be THROWN OPEN
EVERY SATURDAY,
until the announced
DAY OF SALE.
FARES—RETURN, Ist-class, ELEVEN SHILLINGS,
Ditto, 2nd class, FIVE SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE
PURCHASERS
must remember this—that the Proprietor will refund
to them
ALL EXPENSE INCURRED
by them in journeying to
VIEW THE ESTATE.
LITHOGRAPHS
may be obtained from
MESSRS. RICHARDSON AND WRENCH,
about the end of this week.
THE TRIP
is a most enjoyable one, apart from any intention to
buy. The latter will come as a matter of course
AFTER VIEWING
the Estate, and trying the magnificent
ECHOES.
KATOOMBA. K ATOOM BA.
SALE DAY—l2ih FEBRUARY NEXT.
ushered in, “in music and in light.” Then the graver
traditions and associations enshrining Christmas from
the dawn of Christianity in Britain—from the period
when the rude Saxon serfs in the groined and wains-
cotted castle halls of their earls, drank their noisy
“wassail to the kingly Stranger,” down to the present
day are all essentially of a more or less sacred cha-
racter. There is the Roman festival, too, with its
solemn, sacred functions, and its deeply religious spirit;
where through the night the soft glow of a hundred
tapers streams ont through the richly-stained windows
the grand old basilica or quiet monastic chapel, while
the notes of the pealing organ, and the strains of the
time-honoured Adeste Fideles, with its thrilling solos
and wonderful choruses of entrancing solemnity and
sweetness, are wafted tremulously out upon tne mid-
night air. And so on through all the countries of
Europe. But here in the colonies an Australian
Christmas is an institution unique in itself. Oc-
curring under totally opposite accidence of climate
and temperature, amid very different scenes and
widely various classes of people, it yet retains
all the essentials of the days, as it occurs in older
lands; but while our bright skies and azure ether
offer a marked contrast to the wintry snows and hoar
frosts of the old country, the more abstract influences
of the season partake in a strofigly marked degree of
the nature of this distinction. We lose, it is true,
much of the charm of the old ecclesiastical traditions
referred to, which, under other circumstances, hang
round and render reverend, like crowns of ivy, the
wrinkled brows of the welcome visitor. Our Christmas
cards, instead of representing winter scenes, blush and
flow with the pictured luxuriance of summer fruits and
owers. With us the out-door picnic, with its fern-
covered solitudes among the trees, enlivened by flitting
forms of bright-eyed, smiling damsels in gauzy summer
dresses, fragile as the wings of zephyr; a! fresco reflec-
tions, the refreshing bathe in a shady retreat away from
the heat of noon ; the return along the placid river in
the moonlight, while the flashing oar keeps time to the
trolling tones of melody and song—these all tend to
impress a character of their own on the reminiscenes
and associations of the day : an impression which fully
illustrates the difference between the national character,
so to speak, of the colonies and those of other common-
wealths. If any, the spirit of the people of Southern
Europe, with its vine-clad slopes and sunny hill-sides,
assimilates most nearly to ours ; but the Australias
have their own decided type of the class of abstract
and apparent graces of mind and form, on which, among
the varying glimpses of social and political light and
shade, we purpose touching occasionally in these
“ Marginal Notes" for the texts of the times.
LATE SPORTING.
M. Solomon, on Saturday, for Town Hall C.C.,
made 34 runs, and took five wickets for two runs.
Maze, in the same game, made 14 runs, and took four
wickets for 14 runs.
Tom Adamson, of the National Club, is one of
the coming wicketkeepers ; he has hardly a superior in
taking the ball for stumping, and as a batsman he has
an average of 29 runs per innings for 12 innings.
P. Marr, of the Ist Petersham C.C., has ob-
ined, in the matches Petersham v. University, the
22 wickets at a cost of 66 runs, while Sam Gelding,
the second eleven, obtained 27 wickets for 60 runs.
The National C. C. beat the Cheater on the
National Ground, on Saturday last, by 50 runs.
Nationals, 104; Duncan, 27; Evers, 13. Chester, 54.
Duncan and Perry bowled well for the victors. The
fielding of the Nationals was excellent.
A sparring entertainment was given at the
Lighthouse Hotel on Monday evening when several of
the talent officiated. The proceeds were to be given to
Ned Hurley, who has been suffering lately, and who is
contemplating a country trip for the benefit of his
health.
A cricket match was played at Moore Park on
Saturday afternoon last between the Young Oxford and
Independence C.C’s. The result was another easy win
for the Young Oxford C.C„ by an innings and 6 runs, of
which Breakwell, of the Y.0.C.C., played a grand
innings for 20.
The second Warwicks and Herald office met on
Monday on the Windsor Cricket Ground, but as the
match was commenced late, the game had not been
decided when the stumps were drawn. The Warwicks
made 145, of which Cleeve obtained 60 by clean and
vigorous batting, and four of the Hunter-street con-
tingent were disposed of for a score of 7 runs.
The acceptances for the Geelong Cup are:—
P. P., Gipsy Cooper, Avemus, Lady Melissa, Latrobe,
Wellington, Soothsayer, Woodlands, Progress, Western
Princess, Richmond, The Handicap.—P. G., Gipsy
Cooper, Ludy Melissa, Latrobe, Wellington, Sooth-
sayer, Cambollo, Avernus. Wild Rose, Prattle, Pro-
grass, Consignee, Cynic, Waxy, Napper Tandy, A. B. C.
All sorts of wild rumours were circulated on
Sunday night concerning Laycook and Hanlon's race.
No cable had come through, but some inhuman fellow
circulated the report that Laycock had won by three
lengths and that the pubs were afraid to put up the
flags for fear of a rush to the bars, it being Sunday.
This genius for invention has certainly a tinge of
morality.
The genial proprietor of Ireland’s Hotel, Enfield
(Mr. William H. Ireland), has one of the finest foals in
the district, and according to good judges who have
seen him, he will probably be heard of by-and-bye. He
is by Tim Whifller, out of Mr. Ireland’s racing mare
Rosebud, by Snowdon. He is about the handsomest
foal dropped this season, and it is worth while paying a
visit to Enfield to see him.
The Albion C. C. of Maitland beat the Morpeth
Club by 94 runs on Saturday last. After the match it
was decided at a meeting of seven delegates from the
six competing clubs for the Waddy Challenge Cup, that
it was no match, the proposition being carried by the
votes of two members of the Morpeth Club and two
members of the Singleton Club, in opposition to the
other three clubs represented at the meeting. This
doesn’t look straight for some Northern cricketers.
At a meeting of the Cricket Association on
Monday evening, Mr. H. Massie was appointed to the
Selection Committee in place of D. Gregory. A cable
message had been received from the Australian Eleven
stating that the team could not get back in time for
the combined match, and asking for advice. Mr. Gib-
bon was very wisely requested to advise the eleven to
alter their New Zealand programme so that they could
be in Sydney in time to play. The Association has not
been so well treated by the team as to study their
pecuniary interests by inconviencing itself to that
extent.
A match between the second elevens, Petersham
and Callan Park clubs took place last Saturday on the
Asylum Ground, the game resulting in a very easy vic-
tory for Petersham C.C., by 106 runs. The principal
scorers were, for the former; J. Inglis, 36, S. Gelding,
25, not out, Norris, 16, Andsley, 14, P. Dawes, 12, all
showing good cricket, the trundlers being Sam Gelding,
who obtained an average of 5 wickets for 6 runs, and P.
Dawes, 3 wickets for 11 runs; and for the latter.
Cherry, 12, was the only one who reached double figures.
The full scores were: —P.C.C., 125; Callan Park, 19.
A letter has reached us—the signature of which
matters little —enquiring if the system upon which Mr.
E. E. Jones, of this city, conducts his consultations is
an equitable one. The modus operandi adopted by Mr.
Jones is in the last degree fair and straightforward.
Tbore’s not the slightest doubt that sweepstakes such as
Mr. Jones conducts afford the general public a very con-
venient mode of venturing a little money on horse-
racing. All Mr. Jones’ consultations have been well
and honestly managed, and the confidence of the
sporting public thoroughly won. It is the men of
straw that sportsmen have to fear.
The first elevens of the University and Peter-
sham clubs met for the first time this season on the
Petersham Ground, on Saturday last, in the presence of
about 400 spectators, the game resulting in a win for
the suburban club by 20 runs. For the former, R.
Roberts 26, W. Eldridge 17, not ont, and A. Loveridge
10, showed good cricket, while P. Marr and the brothers
Loveridge shared the bowling averages. Wilkinson 17,
Powell 15, W. Jones 11, were the principal scorers for
the University; and Jones and Faithful divided the
bowling honors. Roberts, of the Petersham C.C., kept
the wickets in his usual good form. The full scores
were University, 59; Petersham, 88.
You that I Love.
You that I love are changed as the shades
That in the twilight flick’ring come and go—
One moment glowing as the Summer sun.
The next as chilling as the Winter snow.
You speak of love, yet when your eyes meet mine.
Their gleaming echoes not your lips’ refrain;
Your sweetest words seem only mockery.
And fall upon my heart with strange dull pain.
I fear to trust you with this heart of mine.
That, loving much, desires so much return ;
And sometimes, when I love and suffer most,
My eyes seem cold, my lips are fixed and stern.
Yon love so calmly that you cannot guess
The depth of happiness that love might be,
I touched your fancy only, not your heart.
And Time will bring forgetfulness of me.
Such love is wisdom. Ah, Ido not doubt
But wisdom’s lore the sweetest love will quell ;
I give all things or none—’tis woman’s way—
• You love me wisely, but I love too well!
ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK 2. —THE STORM.
CHAPTER XII.— Continued.
Myles Heywood had seen what he felt to be the best, and
most beautiful, and desirable thing in the world; and he
did desire it with the ardour of a young man and a poet
and a lover all combined,and with an ardour deeper still—
the ardour of one who feels that everything great and
high and satisfactory lies in one direction, and in the
other, blackness, emptiness, death, if death be the oppo-
site to life. He could never look back or down again; and
yet, the more he looked forwards and upwards, the more
did all he saw in the distance seem unattainable and im-
possible. He had quite ceased to visit Adrienne. To be
with her now was only a prolonged ache and pain. He
watched her wistfully, and noted in his heart each day
that passed over without a visit from her. She used to
come so often ; now she never came at all. He knew—
every one knew, that her uncle was dead, and that she
was his heiress. More than once he had heard it was
likely that she and Sebastian Mallory would be married.
He felt it to be very likely himself; but to go and see
her, to hear such a thing from her own lips, was more
than his will had strength to accomplish.
Myles had at one time heartily despised Sebastian
Mallory; and later, with littlle more reason, had as in-
tensely disliked him. Now that was all changed, and
he himself was surprised to find how utterly and en-
tirely his resentment hod burnt out, vanished evapor-
ated. He could see his (as he considered him) success-
ful rival, without any other feeling than one of quiet,
despairing indifference. His most active wish, when he
was conscious of actively wishing anything, was that all
this could somehow come to an end, that some change
would soon take place.
The change was approaching, in a manner so unex-
pected, so bitterly terrible andjnnthought of, that if his
sore and weary heart led him somewhat astray, a just
and righteously acting world must not blame him too
severely. When the eyes are dim with watching, when
every nerve is irritable from long strain and a cruel
endless tenison, when calamity quickly succeeds
calamity, it is not given to all men to act exactly as they
ought to do.
On the morning of the day on which Mrs. Mallory had
been so signally defeated us regarded Miss Blisset,
Myles Haywood received a letter. Address and con-
tents were alike in a handwriting unknown to him. The
epistle was simply headed, “Thanshope,” with the date
following. He turned it oyer, and the subscription
puzzled him —“A Christian Well-wisher” it was signed.
Marvelling at the whole thing he began at the beginning
and read it through.
“Do you know,” began the “Christian Well-
wisher,” “ what position yon are standing in ? Do you
know to whom you really owe your situation? You
owe it to your friend Mr. Sebastian Mallory, Ask him
if he did not get Canon Ponsonby’s casting vote, which
with his own, got you in. I thought you were deter-
mined to owe nothing to him. Do you know that, with
all his fair professions, he is stealing a march upon you
in one direction—that if you don’t either make sure of
a certain young lady, or give her up altogether, you
will soon look a great fool ? I say this because it is
well known that you and she are, or were, great friends.
Ask anyone you know, almost any one in the town of
Thanshope, what is said about you and her and see if I
have not written the truth. There is one way open to
you out of this, and one only—you can leave the place.
I take a real interest in you, and advise this, supposing
that you do feel some grief at having caused her to be
spoken about in such a manner. Of course you are at
liberty either to take my advice or leave it. I should
think there cannot be much doubt which is the most
manly, not to say Christian course.
“A Christian Well-wisher.”
He laid the letter down, feeling that he was trembling
—feeling almost as if his limbs failed him. He did not
speculate as to who had written the letter. Sebastian’s
love for Adrienne was no delusion of his jealous fancy.
Nothing was said against her; he was blamed, and it
was hinted that others spoke lightly of her. He was
told to test the report, to enquire for himself; the
challenge was a fair one.
That he owed his situation to Sebastian’s Mallory’s
influence was nothing; such things as that had now
lost the slightest power to distress him. That Sebas-
tian was “ stealing a march” upon him—that idea was
so ludicrous and so pitiable as to make him smile drily
in the midst of his own torture. There was no sting in
that. If Sebastian chose to woe Adrienne, if she chose
to receive his wooing, who should say them nay ? He
had no such right, at least. He dwelt for a moment on
these points, and then came the rush of horror and
disgust, the sickening, dreadful part of it. He shook
with fury, and with misery too, as he realised that there
were people who had watched him and her: that wrong
constructions had been put upon their friendship, that
people gossiped about her—coupled her name with his.
It stung him to madness. There must be something in
it. “ Ask,” said the writer, " ask, and see if I have not
written the truth.” To advise him to go away—to ap-
peal to his manly feeling! It was like a hideous dream,
which he could not at first grasp. His heart was sore
and aching already; this blow seemed to crush him.
His nerves had been strained for weeks past; he saw
nothing in it’s proper light or just proportions. He
thrust the letter into his breast-pocket, and driven by
necessity, went out to his work. How he got that work
accomplished he could not tell. Adrienne was not
there or he did not think he could have struggled
through with it.
At noon he took his way home again. Crossing the
Towntield he met Harry Ashworth, who joined him,
wishing, good day, and observing .
“ Myles, lad, you don’t look so well. What ails you ?”
“ Nothing, nothing ails me,” said Myles; and then
there flashed a sudden thought into his mind: that
letter—that “ Ask, and see if I have not written the
truth.” He would put it to the test now; not time like
the present.
I’m telling lies,” said he; “something does ail me.
Harry, are you my friend ? ”
“Ay, for sure I am, old lad.”
“ Then come and prove it. Come with me into our
house ; I want to show you something.”
They were close at home. Myles led the way, and
Harry followed him into the parlour, the front room,
now stripped of almost all the furniture and ornaments
which had formerly been the pride of Mary’s life.
“ See here! ” said Myles, his eyes filled with a sombre
fire, and his lips twitching a little, as he pulled out the
letter: “read this, and tell me, when you’ve done, if
you know who’s meant in it.”
Harry looked surprised, but took the letter and read
ir. Myles watched him, thinking what a good idea it
was to make him read the letter. If the report were
unfounded, he would not guess who was referred to ; and
if it were true, he would. Harry’s face changed, grew
amazed, embarrassed, as he read on. When he had
finished the letter, he folded it up, and returned it,
without speaking, to its owner. He did not look at
Myles, but out of the window, as he said;
“ It’s a very queer kind of a letter.”
“ Well,” said Myles, obliged to raise his voice, but
desirous that neither Mary nor Edmund should over-
hear the conversation, “ can yon give a guess, lad, as to
who the lady is that’s spoken of ? ”
“Well,” said Harry, rather confusedly, “I have
heard some talk about you and—and—that lady.”
“ Snppose I don’t know who is meant ? Suppose it’s
all a riddle to me ? ” said Myles.
But Harry shook his head, saying:
“ Nay, nay, that won’t do.”
“ But tell me who you think it is,” said Myles,
impatiently, desperately; “ tell me. for God’s sake!
will know, Harry, so out with it.”
“ You must remember, it’s no tale of mine—it’s only
what I’ve heard; and I believe the lady meant is Miss
Blisset. Fact is,” he added decisively, “ I know it is! ”
Again Myles’s lips quivered a little as he said :
“You said you were my friend, Harry. You must
tell me what you’ve heard.”
“ Well, it’s useless to deny that there’s a story going
about that before her uncle died she was in love with
you, and that you said so often; but I don’t believe it,
old chap. You never think I believe it at all ?”
“ That I said she was in love with me ?” said Myles,
in a voice that had grown almost hoarse.
“ Yes; and that when you went to their house it
wasn’t exactly to see the old gentleman, but ”
“ There, that will do!” said the other holding up his
hand and turning away sickened. It was too hideous.
If any such rumour had penetrated to her her ears ?
He could not speak, till Harry in an ill-judged moment
said:
“ Nay, there’s nothing to take on about so much,
Myles. Some enemy of yours has written that letter—
some one who wants you out of the way. Can’t you see
what he’s driving at when he advises you to go P Likely
enough some one as thinks he might get your place if
you were gone. But you’re not the sort of chap to pay
any attention ”
“ The advice is good,” said Myles, curtly. Very
likely I shall take it. Do you know who set this tale
going P” he asked, turning to Harry with a look which
startled the latter.
“ That’s just what no one can tell,” said he. It
seems to be known everywhere, and yet we can’t tell
where it comes from.”
“Though you give it the benefit of free discussion.
Well, I’ve found out what I wanted to know. There’s
only one thing more—if you care for me or mine—and
we’ve known each other a good many years now —you’ll
never speak of what we have spoken of this morning.”
“ My hand upon it,” said his friend, “ never so long
as I live.”
They left the room. Harry departed by the back way
to have a word with Mary, and to offer to come and sit
up that night with Edmund, who was much worse. The
offer was accepted, and Harry went away.
The midday meal was again a very sad one. Myles
ate nothing, and said nothing; and Mary, full of fears
and forebodings, was almost as bad.
After dinner the young man went out again—up the
street he hated, to the room which had become a purga-
tory to him. How he loathed the sight of that long
building with the many windows and the well-known
faces! It seemed to him as if every eye must be fixed
upon him, every finger pointing at him.
Work was not over until late that afternoon. It was
six o’clock, or after, when Myles got home again, and
on going into the house found that Mary was sitting
upstairs with Edmund: so, after brooding a little, his
mind full of wild, half-chaotic ideas, he left the house
and wandered out, he knew not whither. At last he
found himself in the park, pacing about the broad
terrace, and looking, with eyes that saw nothing, across
the idle town and the nearer hills, to the blue calm
moorland ridges far away to the north. It was a scene
he had loved, half unconsciously, from his childhood
up, but to day it was without joy, almost without ex-
istence for him.
At last he seated himself on a bench situated in a
kind of rockery which ran along one side of the terrace;
the seat was a little retired, in the hollow of the rock,
and there he remained, and gradually he turned his
back upon the prospect, and his face to the wall, and
hid his face in his arm and fought alone, as well as he
could, with the misery and despair which rushed over
him like a flood. He saw no point of cheerfulness in
his life’s sky. All was black and thick and overcast.
“ I must get away as soon as I can If I go, all the lies
will die out quickly enough ; and then—there’s another
man who is ready to fight her battles for her, and he
may see her os much as he pleases, and there’s no harm
in it.”
How long he had remained there motionless and
miserable he did not know. He had forgotten all out-
side things, and was busied solely with his wretched
self-introspection. At last, however, distant voices
first, and then approaching footsteps, which advanced
slowly and with many pauses, penetrated to his
abstracted ear. He did not move ; why should any one
notice him, or think of him ? Still less did he move
when he distinctly heard and recognised Sabastian
Mallory’s voice close to him saying:
“ And then slander will be silenced, and there will be
no more misunderstandings. All will be clear between
us.”
His voice was deep with love as he spoke, and to each
vibration of it Myles’s heart seemed to give an answer-
ing throb.
“Quite clear, as it should be,” replied the voice he
loved best, and it trembled too,
They paced post. Myles hid his face more deeply in
his folded arms. He heard Sebastian kiss her hand,
and then their voices died away—their footsteps too,
and at last Myles raised his head and changed his posi-
tion. He was halt puzzled at the change which had
come over him, at the quiet apathy which seemed to
fill his soul. He had heard those words spoken which
he had thought would be harder than any words for him
to bear, and yet he found himself sitting on in the same
place, his pulses beating no faster, his breath coming
no more quickly. Such utter indifference be felt to be
ominous, and yet, though he tried, he could bring no
different feelings forward; he repeated to himself all
that he thought he had lost, all that he believed Sebas-
tian had won: conned it over as a devotee might tell his
beads, but it had no effect. He had no special pain or
indignation.
And yet, when he rose with the instictive intention
of turning his steps homeward, he found that he was
incapable of going home. He recoiled from the very
idea of entering the house, or speaking to any one he
knew. He stood reasoning within himself about it.
“ Why shouldn’t I go home ? Home is surely the best
place. Molly is there, and Ned. I ought to go and
stay with him; he’s so ill.” And he forced his feet
towards home. But it was useless —he felt it impossible
to enter the house.
“ I know what I want,” he reasoned within himself.
“ I want a good stretch of a walk, right over the moors,
and away from this smoky hole. There’s nothing like a
moorland breeze for blowing away unhealthy fancies.
Harry used to say so, and he’s tried it often enough, and
in trouble enough, poor lad.”
He smiled. He found himself pitying Harry Ash-
worth with an intensity of commiseration such as he
could not by any means wring out for his own sorrows.
But he congratulated himself. A long, long walk, a
walk of twenty miles or so, to prove to himself that he
was still young and strong, and swift of foot, and that
six weeks’ of clerkship drudgery, and six mouths’ alter-
nate hot and cold, hope and fear, doubt and despair, had
not impaired one iota his strength and endurance!
That glorious moorland air, blowing keen and fresh,
though it was pure, from the uorth, over the top of
Blackrigg! There was surely not agr ief, not a solitude-
nourished fear and sorrow, that its strong, bracing
breath would not blow clean away!
By this time he had left the park, and was walking
quickly down the street in a northerly direction. He
met one or two friends and acquaintances before he got
fairly out of town; he returned their salutations quite
mechanically, and still walked on. Just outside Thans-
hope, as the suburb of Bridgefold began, there stood a
well-known public-house, the Craven Heifer; and, as he
was passing its door, some one hailed him.
“ Eh, Myles! I say, Myles, is yon you ? ”
He looked up, and saw a man standing in the door-
way—a man whom he had known years ago, who had
once worked side by side with him in the factory, and
had left and gone over into Eossendale before Myles
had been promoted from the weaving-shed to the ware-
house. He stared blankly at the man, who had been
drinking, and, though by no means drunk, was decidedly
elevated.
“ Gome in, mon ?” he cried. “ It’s years sin’ I saw
you. Come in, and have a glass, for old acquaintance
sake. I’ll stand it.”
He would not be gainsaid, but rolled out, and pulled
his former friend into the taproom. There were half-a-
dozen men there, all more or less happy and free from
care, as it seemed to Myles. They welcomed him nosily,
and his friend asked him, with unnecessary a&eotionate-
ness of tone and manner, what it should be.
“What? Oh, anything. Whan are having
yourself," said Myles, greeting first one and then
another of them, and thinking, with a kind of savage
mirth within himself, that there were more Kinds of
pleasure in the world than one; since he could not Im*
"This is no lit place for me to stay in,” he thought
one kind, he might as well try another He would sen
whether these men, who seemed so phased to see him
were really such bad company after all And he sat
down, and waited until a girl brought him a glass nf
steaming hot punch—whisky punch; that was wW
they were drinking.
"Now, then,” cried his acquaintance, “ good luck to
you, Myles! Here’s to our next merry meeting, eh ? ”
“To our next! ” said Myles, raising the glass to his
lips, and then, even as it touched them, feeling as if he
had suddenly come to his senses, he put the glass down
on the table. “ Not yet,” he said, half aloud, and got
up from his seat and walked out of the room, shaking
oif the hands that were outstretched to stay him, and
unheeding the loud and angry expostulations which
came after him.
“ Pah! ” he exclaimed, as he took his way alone- the
road again; " I’m not come to that yet! ”
It was a long and toilsome road that led from the
town of Thanshope, through some outlying suburbs, to
a large manufacturing village, called Hamerton, which
lay on the very skirts of Yorkshire, closed in on all sides
by the great'ridges of Blackrigg, and some neighbouring
wild and desolute moors. He took the road along which
Hugo and Sebastian had once driven ; and the sun had
set as he turned his face towards the hills with that
strange sensation of oppressive apathy and indifference
ever at heart. The night was descending: the "stars
rushed out,” as he at length gained the complete soli-
tude of the moors, and, turning aside from the road
plunged half knee-deep into the thick heather and ling’
which was the only vegetation about there. He walked’
for a very short time as it seemed to him—really, for
hours—battling with the horrible sensations of a great,
black, yawning, hideous blank, a huge emptiness, an
ewiges Nichts, which completely overpowered him. He
was unconscious how far he had gone, or where he was,
or that he was even weary, when suddenly he found
himself stumbling over the knolls of heather, and, look-
ing up. found that it was dark. The summer night had
closed in, and he, for aught he knew, might be twenty
miles away, or thirty, from Thanshope.
He thought he would sit down and rest a little, so he
sank down upon the friendly heather, and found that it
formed a soft and yielding bed, and that the air which
played around his head and face was cool, and pure, and
sweet. For a moment he found a blessed sensation of
rest and relief, and then all things seemed softly to
swim and fade around him; with sweeping wing sleep
came upon him, and laid her finger upon his eyelids, and
bade the weary brain rest. He sank gradually down in
the hollow of the heather, and a deep, dreamless,
slumber overcame him, and saved him. Never had
sleep been a more beneficent visitant; never had kindly
Nature taken to her soft arms a more weary, heartsick
child of hers, than she did that summer night, when she
offered to Myles Heywood rest upon ber own broad
bosom.
(to be continued)
January 29, 1881.


Notice to Advertisers.
From this date the charge for advertise-
ments in The Bulletin will be Five Shillings (55.) per
inch, nett. _
Space being limited it is obviously impossible to
maintain the literary character of The Bulletin and
at the same time submit to the ever-increasing pressure
on its commercial columns.
The weekly circulation of The Bulletin is
now guaranteed to be over 16,000, with a regular
increase of several hundreds per month.
To meet the growing demand for The Bulletin
we find it necessary to go to press much earlier than
formerly.
Our advertising patrons are therefore respect-
fully informed that advertisements for the current
week’s publication must be in the office not later than
noon on Wednesday.
HAYNES & ARCHIBALD.
Professional Addresses
M
M
E.
R.
S. L A Z
ADDEESS :
Professional—Theatre Eoyal.
Private —“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra
E. J.
E. GEEYILLE.
ADDEESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
Me. l. m. b a y l e s s.
ADDEESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
M
E. FRED. MARSHALL.
ADDEESS;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDEESS:
Gnti 1 end April—Theatre Eoyal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Eoyal, Adelaide.
Tt/TE. & MRS. HARRY W. EMMET,
JtM- (Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDEESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, till end of March.
PEIYATE ADDEESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
Mr. m. s a l a m o n.
ADDEESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
Misses Alice and Constance
DEOEWYN.
ADDEESS:
Borne Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
R. AND MBS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ADDEESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
M
HILIP STUART,
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDEESS:
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney
w
ATERSIDE
SITES,
ESTATE.
NORTHCLIFF
BUSINESS SITES, NOETHCLIFF ESTATE.
VILLA SITES, NOETHCLIFF ESTATE.
MILSON’S POINT, NOETH SHOEE.
MILSON'S POINT, NOETH SHOEE.
«ST Northclifif Estate will be sold ON THE GROUND,
NEXT SATURDAY.
The Harbour and City VIEWS are very grand from
«ar NOETHCLIFF ESTATE.
*** Only FOUE DEEP WATEE frontages in
*** NOETHCLIFF ESTATE.
All the MAIN ROAD frontages opposite to
*** NOETHCLIFF ESTATE
are already built on.
NOETHCLIFF IS CENTRAL AND ACCESSIBLE.
LITHOS. ARE NOW READY, and the terms are 20
per cent, deposit, balance at 6 per cent.
G
HARD IE and GORMAN, AUCTIONEERS.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
FIFTH WEEK OF
ME. FREDERICK MARSHALL.
ON SATURDAY, 22nd JANUARY, 1881,
Introduction of H. J. Byron’s farcical comedy,
UNCLE,
concluding with
J. J. William’s amusing farce of
MY TURN NEXT.
IHE NEW LIGHT ! THE NEW LIGHT !
EOYLE and HOGG,
Bond-street Stores,
SOLE AGENTS for the
ALPHA GAS MACHINES
beg to inform the public that this splendid invention
is now on view at their warehouse, in Bond-street,
close to the Exchange, and an inspection is invited.
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE IS
SUITABLE for all PRIVATE HOUSES and SHOPS
SUITABLE for MANSIONS and Public Institutions
SUITABLE for STEAMERS and SHIPS
SUITABLE for PUBLIC HALLS and THEATRES
SUITABLE for LIGHTING TOWNS.
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE IS
BETTER than COAL GAS because it is CHEAPER,
costing fflj less
BETTER than COAL GAS because it gives a better
light, and, therefore, less gas is required to be
burned
BETTER than COAL GAS, because it is made no
faster than it is consumed
BETTER than KEROSENE, because there .is NO
DANGER of an explosion
BETTER than KEROSENE, because no trimming of
lamps is required
BETTER than KEROSENE because there is no offen-
sive smell.
THE ALPHA GAS MACHINE IS
SUPERIOR to anything of the kind yet invented.
Ordinary Gasflttings are suitable.
The ALPHA GAS MACHINE is used for LIGHT-
ING TOWNS; it is also used on beard Her Majesty’s
TRAINING SHIPS in England.
TESTIMONIALS from Residents in the Colony who
have the machine at work can be had on application.
car The Public are warned against spurious imita-
tions. This is the only economical, satisfactory light.
STANDARD
FIRE & MARINE INSURANCE CO. OF NEW
ZEALAND.
Capital £1,000,060.
FIRE AND MARINE RISKS ACCEPTED AT
LOWEST CURRENT BATES.
EOYLE AND HOGG,
Agents.
JJ.ES ULT
OP CONSULTATION
on
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP,
Parramatta.
I Strathearn
28 Kelso
42 Eosinante
66 Creswick
86 Croydon
128 Tattoo
153 Blackbird
166 Oakhill
196 Verdict
286 Marquis
24 Raven
33 Radical
54 Love Not
70 The Dean
124 Childers
145 Eros
162 The Knav«
189 Kildare
2GO Macaroni
241 Barmaid
M. MENSEE,
Parramatta.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 14th January, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
"VTOTICEis hereby given, that unless the Lessees
-L* execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Gold-raining Leases within thirty days from
this date, they will he declared void.
E. A. BAKEE.
Hdnter and Macleat Minino District
No., 232; J. T. Gregg and others; Portion No., 28;
Home Eule Eeef, parish of Curreki ; 2 acres ; Applica-
tion No., Bnlladellah 35.
No., 234; J. T. Gregg and another; Portion No., 1;
Mammoth Eeef, parish of Teleraree; 4a. lr. 38p,; Ap-
plication No., 49.
No., 235; A. Croll and another; Portion No., 7:
Eosebud Eeef, Parish of Topi; 3 acres; Application
No., 52.
No., 236; J. Mayers and another; Portion No., 2;
Eosebud Eeef, parish of Topi; 3r. 22p.; Application
No., 53.
No., 237; J. Lulham and others; Portion No., 36;
Golden Bar Eeef, parish of Teleraree; 5 acres; Appli-
cation No., 58.
No., 238; Elizabeth Quigley and another; Portion
No., 10; Eosebud Eeef, parish of Topi; 2 acres; Ap-
plication No., 59.
No., 240; A. Croll and another; Portion No., 3; Eose-
bud Eeef, parish of Topi; la. 3r. Application No., 61.
No., 241; J. G. Crumpton; Portion No., 8 ; Eosebud
Eeef, parish of Topi; 2 acres; Application No., 62.
No., 242; J. Ward and others ; Portion No., 19 ; Eose-
bud Eeef, parish of Topi; 2 acres ; Application No., 65.
No., 243; J. Lulham and others; Portion No., 43;
Mountain Maid Eeef, parish of Teleraree; 3 acres;
Application No., 75.
No., 246; Q. Gordon and others; Portion No., 50;
Mountain Maid Eeef, parish of Teleraree; 2 acres;
Application No., 90.
No., 249; E. Dun and others; Portion No., 15;
Aurora Eeef, parish of Topi; 2 acres; Application No.,
101.
No., 259; T. James and another; Portion No., 9;
Suttor’s Eeef, parish of Teleraree; 2 acres; Application
No.. 18.
No., 262; E. Ladd and others; Portion No., 6;
Golden Star Eeef, parish of Curreki; 2 acres; Applica-
tion No., 45.
No., 264; L. M'Pherson; Portion No., 15; County of
Gloucester, parish of Teleraree; 3 acres; Application
No., 31.
No., 272; E. Holmes and others; Portion No., 9;
Eosebud Eeef, parish of Topi; 5 acres; Application
No.. 55.
No., 274; E. Dun and others; Portion No., 17;
Aurora Eeef, parish of Topi; 2 acres; Application No.,
100.
No., 285; J. Franklin and others; Portion No,, 12;
Morning Star Eeef, parish of Goolongolook; 3 acres;
Application No., 63.
No., 286; Alfred Gordon and others ; Portion No., 10;
Queen of Boolbee Eeef, parish of Goolongolook ; 2a.;
Application No , 64.
No., 288; John Blair; Portion No., 11; Queen of
Boolbee Eeef, parish of Goolongolook; 2 acres; Appli-
cation No., 71.
No., 299 ; G. J. Wells and others; Portion No., 17;
Boolbee Mountain, parish of Goolongolook; 2 acres;
Application No., 107.
No., 300; T. Mason and others; Portion No., 20;
Mountain Maid Eeef, parish of Goolongolook; 2 acres ;
Application No., 108.
No., 301; P. May and others; Portion No., 19; Bool-
bie Mountain, parish of Goolongolook; 2 acres ; Appli-
cation No., 109,
No., 302; E‘Mlean and others; Portion No., 21;
Mountaineer Eeef. parish of Goolongolook; 2 acres;
Application No., 114.
No., 303; E. Meldrum and others; Portion No., 27;
Mountaineer Eeef, parish of Coolongolook; 5 acres;
Application No., 115.
No., 304; G. Nicholas and another ; Portion No., 18;
Boolbie Mountain, parish of Coolongolook; 2 acres;
Application No., 116.
No., 306; John Blair; Portion No., 26; Boolbie
Mountain, parish of Coolongolook; 2 acres; Applica-
tion No., 121.
No., 330; G. S. Hill and another; Portion No., 4;
Devonshire Eeef, parish of Bootoowaa; 5 acres; Appli-
cation No., 34.
No., 331; E. Holmes and others; Portion No., 5;
Eosebud Eeef, parish of Topi; 4a. 2r. lip.; Application
No., 54.
No., 332; J. Denning and others; Portion No., 8;
Hill End Eeef, parish of Bootoowaa; 4 acres ; Applica-
tion No., 72.
No., 333; B. Eye, sen., and another; Portion No., 2;
Devonshire Eeef, parish of Bootoowaa; 5 acres ; Appli-
cation No., 87.
No., 334; J. E. Hawkins; Portion No., 5; Lucknow
Eeef, parish of Bootoowaa; 2 acres; Application No.,
88.
No.. 335; W. Donkin and another; Portion No., 7;
The Kennedy Eeef, parish of Bootoowaa; 4 acres ; Ap-
plication No., 89.
No., 336; V. Weber and another; Portion No., 9;
Lucknow Eeef, parish of Bootoowa; 5 acres; Applica-
tion No., 99.
No., 337; A. Cameron ; Portion No., 25; Lady Loftns
Eeef, parish of Coolongolook ; 2 acres; Application
No., 105.
No., 338; E. Griffin and others; Portion No., 4; Eose-
bud Eeef, parish of Topi; lacre; Application No., 112.
No., 341; W. Alway and another; Portion No., 22;
Colona Devereaux Eeef, parish of Coolongolook; 2a.;
Application No., 122.
No., 342; T. Phillips; Portion No., 24; Colona De-
vereaux Eeef, parish of Coolongolook; 2 acres ; Appli-
cation No., 126.
No., 349; J, Denning and others; Portion No., S;
Lucknow Eeef parish of Bootoowaa; 2a. 2r. 35p.; Ap-
plication No., 68.
No., 386; C. F. Holmes and others; Portion No., 6;
Eosebud Eeef, parish of Topi; 15 acres; Appplication
No., 104.
No., 387 ; Claus Witt; Portion No., 20; Eosebud
Eeef, parish of Topi; 2 acres; Application No., 123,
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEE’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BEICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
670 GEOEGE STEEET,
Brickfield Hill.
King street
IS THE
GEEAT CENTEE OF ATTEACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visiles,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon MavrU,. t„ e rfce
Splendid Assortment o*' Urh-rciorhing made from
Horrioks’s Long C.„i,ut, U English and our own
man-".. V ire, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
leader and stark.
96 KING STEEET.
AN IMMENSE PURCHASE OF £200,000 WORTH OF NEW GOODS BY
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
OF THE
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, being well known throughout the trade as the holders of an
almost unlimited amount of READY CASH, are always among the first to whom the opportunity is
offered when any GREAT BARGAINS are in the market available for cash. Hence it is that we
are enabled to place our stock before the public at the INCREDIBLE PRICES which we do.
SHEETINGS
LINENS
CALICOES
PRINTS
SATEENS
CARPETS
FLOOR-CLOTHS
CLOTHING
HATS, SHIRTS
COSTUMES
SILKS
DRESSES
TRIMMINGS
BUTTONS
OUR
CEUEBEATEn
COSTUMES
AND FICHUS
ARE JUST THE
THING FOR THE
PRESENT SEASON,
AND FIND A READY
SALE. OUR FRENCH
MILLINERY IS EQUALLED
ONLY IN PARIS ITSELF.
SCARCELY CAN SO GREAT A
VARIETY OF LACES BE POUND
BUT IN NOTTINGHAM, THE FOUN-
BY DINT OF LONG EXPERIENCE, EXTENDING
OVER HALF A CENTURY, WE CAN ALWAYS
ANTICIPATE THE WANTS OF OUR CUS-
TOMERS. WE INVARIABLY HAVE A
STOCK SUITED TO THE WANTS OP
THE PUBLIC: HENCE THERE IS
NO GOING AWAY UNSERVED.
AT THE HAYMARKET IT IS
ONLY TO ASK TO HAVE.
—o—
A. HORDERN & SONS,
OF THE
HAYMARKET
(only),
S Y D NEY.
TAIN HEAD OF THEIR PRODUCTION.
AND AS FOR MANCHESTER GOODS
OUR EXTRAORDINARILY LOW PRICES
ARE PROVERBIAL THROUGHOUT THE
COLONY.
GLOVES
BABY-LINEN
CORSETS, LACES
RIBBONS, TULLES
PARACHUTES
FLOWERS
MILLINERY
UNDERCLOTHING
FEATHERS, &c., &o.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS would respeotf ully invite an inspection of the above, the
goods being laid out expressly for this purpose. Our tables are groaning under the weight of TENS
OF THOUSANDS OP POUNDS’ worth of SILKS, SATINS, DRESS GOODS, &e., and the
elegant show cases lately purchased at the International Exhibition, bursting as they are with every
novelty, are a sight worth seeing. All is open to inspection, and none are pressed to buy against their will.
Above all things, the public are requested to note that we have only one place op business,
and that is at the
HAYMARKET
OUR NAME AND ONLY ADDRESS ARE
ANTHONY HORDERN $ SONS,
HAYMARKET (only).
HOTEL HE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEEEAGH STEEET,
Opposite Theatre Eotal.
\? y$ i v
IP
FfT ,
UUL
hft.wwsß*
E BAG 1-1
MU
v-«i
m
iii&;
LUNCHEON and SUPPEE-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLEE,
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS.
HEATEE EOYAL.
Lessee ...Mr. Sami. Lazar
LAST NIGHT BUT ONE OF
the Brilliant Comedy,
“OUR S,”
by T. W. Robertson, author of Caste, School, Play, Ac.
Characters by Messrs. Edwin Shepherd, H. H.
Vincent, Frank Cates, J. H. Raiuford, F. Beverley, C.
Chriss and G. C. Titheradge; Mrs. Gordon, Mrs. Marion
Stammers and Miss Blanche Stammers.
SYNOPSIS of SCENERY:—Act 1, SHENDEYN
PARK; Act 2, LADY SHENDRYN’S DRAWING-
ROOM. The departure of “ Ours ”; Act 3, OFFICER’S
HUT in the CRIMEA, Winter.
NEW SCENERY BY GEORGE GORDON.
SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 29,
the Brilliant Comedy
SCHOOL.
Popular Prices—Dress Circle, ss; Stalls, 3; Family
Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, 821 George-street, where
Plan of dress circle can be seen and seats secured.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
A. S. N. CO.’S WHARF.
Sydney, January 14th, 1881.
I have much pleasure to inform my CONSTI-
TUENTS and the general PUBLIC that, in consequence
of the large INCREASE in my BUSINESS, I have ar-
ranged with my brother, Mr. WI. WILKINSON (late
manager of the Kirkton Vineyard), to act in conjunc-
tion with Mr. D MURRAY, in Sydney.
I am now placed in a position to largely EXTEND my
VINEYARD, and devote the necessary time to the
growth and maturing of my WINES.
ADDITIONAL CELLARS
have been engaged in a central position, and will
SHORTLY be ANNOUNCED.
I am pleased to again have an opportunity of thank-
ing my NUMEROUS FRIENDS and SUPPORTERS
for their very LIBERAL SUPPORT during my BUSI-
NESS CAREER in Sydney.
JOHN A. WILKINSON.
QOALCLIFF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand ; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOE SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton—224olb. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto > Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened I v _ WCß . tw .
225. Ditto single ditto } Newcastle.
SmaU coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and
Greville.
Musical Director Mr. Chas. Austin.
FIFTY THOUSAND VISITORS
Have testified their delight, and we are now in our
FIFTH WEEK.
EVERY EVENING,
QUEEN’S XMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK. THE GIANT KILLER,
With new annotations, local, vocal, and jocal.
Illustrated with magnificent Scenery, by Hennings and
Kinchela.
GRAND CONGRESS OF NATIONS,
King Arthur’s Steel Castle—Rhine Views and Harle-
quinade Fairies’ Haunt and Crystal Grottoes
Spring’s Delights to Summer's Glories.
Reserved Seats, 4s ; Boxes, 3s ; Stalls, 2s ; Pitt, Is.
LAST DAT PERFORMANCE
of the PANTOMIME,
JACK, THE GIANT KILLER.
NEXT SATURDAY, 29th JANUARY.
Children to the Stalls —One Shilling.
Children to the Reseved Seats—Two Shillings.
Pantomime commencing at Half-past 2 o’clock.
Carriages to be ordered at a quarter to 5 sharp,
Bo«-effice at Paling’s.


Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaherry
Do. ~ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES:—34B GEORGE STREET,,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
m
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrro, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
n
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL,. rfC*
DLnul IrUL * hUV-
ALLWOOL
T «“ D
&
OR
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
FROM
HLSUMMERFIEIO
pittstsyoNEY
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OP
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E.
GREER AND CO.’S
PRIZE
ALBURY WINES.
Red Wines: White Wines;
Reisling
Verdeilno
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS;
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY: Printed and published by the Proprietors,
John Hatnes and J. F. Abchibald, at the Offices of
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
T| EISDALE AND EGBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street
IRONMONGERS, IRONMERCHANTS, AND
IMPORTERS.
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the lates productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
W 1
"ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
N*. 11, PITT-STREET,
Imperters of all Descriptions o
M
C
E R
Y,
H I N
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
%
118
*
KING
STREET
SYDNE
TAILOR
m
rCK
Oo
m
c,m
r,
t-
Ms
•i6v.
i .
E
AND POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME CSURT
k^H
at/g
a
J*” TO ORDER."^;
FITGUARANTEED!
fill HANDWORK.
FEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINETUM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
Loan OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
Blacket and Davy.
119 BATHUEST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents foe Messes. Tangte Beos., Birmingham.
dfgsgf
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANQYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND lEEIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
ET E S
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT).
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should bejpatronised
by all classes of Society. From, Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ashfield .—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney: —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has 'no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee: —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney: —My child had sore eyes for 2$ years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney: —For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
U
(*
DC
IBS
Cocoa
CO
Against the world
R. Haepek & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten Fiest Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
w
cr^i
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
“a
RTZII
mUSTAft
CO
OUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
READY MADE,
from 30s. the half-dozen.
SMITH & MANNELL,
THE ONLY
PRACTICAL SHIRTMAKERS
IN THE COLONY.
298 GEORGE STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
S
INGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ATT. FORMER TEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES—<£6 10s. Cash. i .. , „
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
lave you not heard of it? Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bits Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO
PAIN
&
MARTIN
WITH
*
AND
389
*
BOU
A
187
189
*
Agents
Reque»
Street
George
*
3
Farmers
FOR
s
J*
York
St
*
fiorasby
examine
SYDNEY.
*
Hornsby
*
Anglo
Australian
STRIPPERS
3*
STRIPPERS
o
9
*9
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest
Our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
combine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvements to
Clean Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during the recent DAMP ENGLISH
HARVEST fully proved that We have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
MARTIN & PAIN, 389„George Street,
The Leading House in tlie Agricultural Implement Business.
