

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.-NO. 66.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 30, 1881.
Price—3d.
f|c §tt(letin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 30. 1881
The Irrepressible Mongolian.
The Government will, of course, allege the rejection
by the Legislative Council during the session before
last, of the Chinese Immigration Regulation Bill,
in excuse for allowing the country to be caught
unprepared now. The Council deserves its share
of the blame ; and The Bulletin, at any rate,
will offer no objection to the full share being served
out to it. But the Council is not the popular and
representative chamber. It exists chiefly to object,
and has so managed affairs as to foster an opinion
that it is capable of little else. It has not in general
proved an insuperable bar to anything the Assem-
bly, when really supported by the weight of public
opinion, has been resolute to press upon it. But
the Assembly and Sir Henry Parkes have been
very awkward of late in choosing points of con-
tention. It was Sir Henry who rallied the Assem-
bly to insist upon the precious Privileges of Par-
liament Bill, and exposed the popular chamber to
certain defeat, in consequence of that measure
being aimed at the liberties of the public. The
Council became for the nonce the Representative
House, and was able —with the full force of popular
opinion backing it —to hurl back the Assembly,
ignominiously defeated. The people were very
thankful for this defence of their liberties, and
not the less exasperated with Sir Henry and his
colleagues, because to an attack upon personal
rights they combined a humiliation of the People’s
Chamber. The Government has been clumsy
enough to be dreadfully in earnest only when
the people were not with them, and feebly
apathetic when the people were earnestly in
sympathy with them. When the Privileges
Bill was rejected, the Ministry, with Sir
Henry Parkes as fugleman, breathed fire
and thunder. The Council was to be brought to
its marrow-bones. It was to be over-ridden, re-
constructed, abolished —cooked, eaten and its
bones picked. The Cabinet fulminated, and
Government supporters in the Assembly sweltered
in the gravy of their indignation. But when the
Chinese Regulation Bill was rejected, it was the
public who were indignant. The Cabinet was
calm and indifferent. Parliament was prorogued
in the usual way, and the country was amused
with a casual reference in the sense of “better
luck next time.” It was promised that the en-
suing session would be availed of to effectually
press the measure. The excuse given by the
Council for throwing out the Bill was that there
was no need for exceptional repression, nothing
particular to fear, no hurry. The public, on the
whole, held the contrary opinion. The Cabinet
pretended to be of the same mind with the public.
But when last session was entered upon, the
Chinese question was not a foremost item. There
was a Conference, and that subject was shuffled
up among other abstractions for the Conference
to dabble in. The Bulletin protested at the
time. We pointed out that what was wanted was
action, not twaddle. Fifty conferences would not
give our Parliament any power to act which it did
not already possess. We urged that N.S. Wales
should legislate in the first place, as Queensland
had already legislated. The various enactments
of the different colonies could be assimilated later,
should there be any advantage. It is nothing to
ns whether a Chinaman has to pay ten pounds
and be branded on the nose when landing in
Victoria. That would not prevent his coming to
N. S. Wales. It is a small matter to fls if he
be admitted without question into Victoria
provided he be stopped from coming here.
If we were to wait for Federal action before im-
posing limitations, it might come to pass that
there would be merely Chinese provinces to Fede-
rate when the day came. There is no mistaking
the moral of the Government’s supineness. They
could pass a Fisheries Bill, to facilitate the opera-
tions of Sir John Robertson’s and Mr.
Withers’ pet company. They could vote seven
millions for railways “ agin the doors ” of half the
speculative land-owners in Parliament and in its
lobbies. They could not find time to investigate
any water-supply scheme which would divert the
fine of pipes from Mr. Lackey’s improvable
estate. And they could by no means spare time
or attention to press a measure to prevent the
colony from being taken by surprise by swarms of
Asiatics, more destructive when planted “ agin ”
any labouring man’s door, than a bridge or a rail-
way is advantageous when constructed “ agin” the
door of a man of property. Now that the mischief
is being done, Sir Henry Parkes has scuttled
away to Melbourne in a fright, to try and induce
Mr. Berry to let the Conference recommenda-
tions slide, and to join in immediate measures. It
18 probably the best course the Premier can pur-
sue under the circumstances. Mr. Berry will, of
course, remembering the affronts put upon him at
Albury, make Sir Henry eat dirt. This will
perhaps not injure his stomach. But it is not
gratifying to the sense of N. S. Wales that its
Premier should reduce himself, by culpable
neglect of the public interests, to such humilia-
tions.
The Hon. James White, M.L.C.
Few external circumstances better indicate the
thoroughly British character of these Australian
communities than their devotedness to the national
sports and pastimes of the parent land. To this,
add the complexion of their higher social life, their
love of fair play in all their relations towards each
other, and their prompt liberality when occasion
demands its exercise, and you must acknowledge
the true citizen of the “ New Britannia in another
world” to be as thorough an Englishman as the
typical John Bull of jovial memory. Another
phase of these considerations presents itself to
us. Is it not surprising how rapidly (and often
how completely) success in business transmutes a
man’s earlier opinions, and with what easy grace
he takes a position in a higher class than the one
in which he acquired his first experiences of life ?
From this tendency to rise, and from the facili-
ties for social elevation that occur, particularly in
New South Wales, we are not a whit surprised to
find the ultra-Liberal of his early gold-mining days
become the rigid Conservative of the present time,
or to see the pioneer squatter, who began with
small capital—and of course with considerably less
credit —enjoy a sweet complacency of soul when he
realises the fact that he is now a pastoral
prince, the owner of large flocks and herds.
There is nothing like success after a
struggle—to keep a man steady in many
ways, and give a bright tinge, as it were
of burnished gold, to all iiis aspirations. It
must not be for a moment imagined that the hon.
gentleman whose portrait we give to-day, and
whose career suggests this tram of moralising,
is himself a fit subject for its application. He
began the battle of life at a comparatively early
age, with capital and intelligence; and he improved
his fortunes, as well as those of his family, with
steadiness and success. Still, in one sense, he
presents himself to our mind or fancy as one of
our best Australian types of a genuine English
country gentleman. With what ease and grace
he slid into the sensitive ranks of the Colonial
Aristocracy ! How quickly and entirely he adapted
himself to the situation ! Leaving out of considera-
tion the successful application of his energies to
the making of a princely fortune, he no sooner
enters on his otium —the mellow period of repose
after a long and laborious campaign—than he
determines to enjoy it with dignity; but not in
idleness, nor even in that attractive form of exist-
ence wbich so many prize—to wit, wandering
amongst the fairest scenes of “ lands classical ana
sacred.” This kind of thing would not suit Mr.
White’s active temperament. He took to the
turf with a quiet enjoyment which proved that
he possessed in a high degree that inherent passion
of the true Britisher for horse-racing; but in
devoting time, attention, and money to the
absorbing pursuit, he determined from the outset to
approach it with a pure intention, and follow it up
with untarnished honour. He has ‘proved himself
to be a true chevalier —sans peur et sans reproche
—in both respects : both in purity of intention
and uprightness of conduct. Not even the gallant
Sir Hercules Robinson can be said to have done
as much to purify horse-racing in New South
Wales as the Hon. James White. can safely
say of the latter—and during certain Nunquam
Dormio days we had special opportunities of
knowing—that he never as much as dreamt some
of the sharp practices that were employed around
him! How came this to be ? Simply enough: the
keenest experimentalist did not dare to give the
dimmest hint of a “ wicked suggestion ” to him or
anyone in his confidence. The truth of this
assertion is patent. He spent thousands on the
elastic turf before he carried off one of the trium-
phant symbols of victory—a bit of blue ribbon or
a gold cup. He was swayed by the spirit of
antagonism, which is the vital spirit of the sport,
but he loved it too well to allow its many claims
on public confidence to be dishonoured. His name
does not appear on the record as that of one who
had carried off “ a good thing ” till he sent Chester
on the field, and that noble animal, after several
victories, carried off the highest distinction of his
class at the Agricultural Society’s show, in Prince
Alfred Park, a few days ago. Mr. White’s
“ Democrat” pulled off the Sydney Cup in ’7B,
and others of his horses have won high honors ;
but these are matters known to a very large por-
tion of the public outside the illuminati of Tatter-
sail’s. With the same tranquil ease and dignity
which characterised his appearance on the race-
course, Mr. White entered the arena of politics.
He no doubt took a deep interest in the “ burning
question” of the Robertsonian era, and certainly
no gentleman ever legally used the Father of Free
Selection’s grand agrarian panacea to more ad-
vantage than Mr. White and his brothers. Their
wide domains may be looked upon as one of the
normal products of that marvellous piece of legis-
lation. No one can—no one should—blame those
who legally made use of the law which was
intended “ to curb, crib, and confine” the squatter
to their own profit; but if that statute, em-
blazoned on the scroll of fame under the year
1861, has failed in its effects —or, rather, inverted
the anticipated results —censure ought to be
directed against its authors, aiders, and
abettors, and not against the charioteers, who
tooled coaches-and-six through its clauses, and
dashed up it’s devil’s pinches with pluck and
skill. The Hon. James White was appointed to
the Legislative Council on the 14th July, 1874.
He had been previously a painstaking magistrate
on two or three of the Northern benches, and his
character as a philanthropist is better known for
miles round Denman and Muswellbrook, than as
a moderately successful sportsman. He does not
affect oratory —probably he dislikes it —perhaps
he could not (an’ he would) wade through Mr.
David Buchanan’s “ specimens ” of his (Mr.
Davy’s) own rhapsodical sputterings ; but Mr.
White has carefully attended to the business of the
House, often given his vote in repression of the
autocratic assumptions of the Assembly, stimu-
lated by Sir Dictator Parkes, and may be ranked
as a Conservative liberal, because he is a free-
trader, and must therefore know that the tax-
gatherer will one day make his rounds on the
lands of the country. Apart from his public
career, Mr. White has in many ways proved him-
self to be a worthy citizen and a gentleman of
unblemished honor.
The Present London Fashions.
London society has had crazes innumerable, yet none
was ever more ridiculous than the latest. The young
women exhibit themselves in tight-fitting garments, de-
devoid of all shape and colour, clinging to the form, and
showing the contour of the figure with quite as much
precision as the fleshings of the ballet-girl; the hair cut
short and frizzed over the eyes, and dyed of a deep
orange brown ; the throat encircled by a double row of
large amber beads, from which depends a mediaeval
ornament; and a looking-glass hanging to the side, as
in the pictures of the Venetian ladies by Paul Veronese.
The female aesthete affects the colourless raiment as
beheld in the pre-Baphael-pictures, olive green skirts
long and trailing on the grodnd, but so tight as to
show the angles of the knee joints when seated; the
bodice is of deep dull orange colour, laced with the
palest blue; the sleeves, tight fitting to the elbow,
hang to the feet and are made of different colour
and material to the rest of the attire. A pale, dim
fawn colour is in general most patronised and is lined
with the brownish-green seldom beheld in nature save
on the back of a toad. The beautiful aesthete scarce can
open her lips to speak, so tightly are they pressed to-
gether, and never smiles save when the male aesthete
approaches, and then they whisper together, and some-
times disappear locked arm in arm towards the supper-
room, where they are not more backward than the
vulgar herd in their enjoyment of the creature comfort
provided. But while the female aethete "is simply ridi-
culous, the male is!absolutely offensive. He lisps and
ambles ; his locks flow uncombed over his collar, and he
generally carries an artificial lily in his hand, at
which he sniffs pathetically now and then. He
has been caricatured unmercifully in the illustrated
papers, and even on the stage, but he heeds it
not. A lady of high repute and much beloved
and respected, but who has gone in for the aesthetic
phase, determined to act up to the character she had
assumed, and at a soiree given at her house, after having
treated her friends to a few melodious twangs upon the
ancient lyre kept in her husband’s studio to assist him
in painting his antique groups she disappeared from the
room. Presently she returned with a crystal platter on
which was an antique goblet turned upside down. Go-
ing round to each guest, she whispered in a hollow tone,
“ supper is ready,” at which announcement the guest
who accepted the invitation to descend to the supper-
room was expected to turn the goblet. An effort is now
being made by the leaders of fashion to crush this affec-
tation, which is enervating the youth of both sexes,(and
converting some of the salons of London into the sem-
blance of the mortuary chapels of the Campo Santo at
Fisa.
THE HON. JAMES WHITE, M.L.C.


The Hon. W. J. Clarke shortly leaves Mel-
bourne for Europe.
Captain Wheeler, of the Wakatipn, ia the
nautical champion at cribbage.
The Hon. Major Smith, Minister for Education
in Victoria, arrived in Sydney by the Wakatipn on
Tuesday, and remains here till Saturday.
The Mill Hill Estate, certainly one of the
choicest sites anywhere about Sydney, and adjoining
Waverley tram, is to be sold by Messrs. Hardie and
Gorman on Monday next.
Dr. Stanich, the well-known aurist, or Diamond
Stanich, as he is known down South, is engaged com-
piling a work on the Australian colonies, which he pur-
poses publishing simultaneously in Australia and
England. The work will embrace a description of the
general resources of the country, and its climatic ad-
vantages, and it will demonstrate the superiority of
these colonies over any other portions of the world
as a field for British and continental emigration.
The Doctor, who, by the way, is a member of an old
and very wealthy Austrian family, came to the colonies
mainly to procure data for his new work. He
left Sydney for Charters Towers on Tuesday, with the
intention of visiting all the principal Queensland town-
ships southward.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
-Adt.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Karl Theodore Staiosb, analytical
chemist."—Advt.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.— Adt.
SOCIAL.
A lady on the Blancfc is shortly to be married to
a Woodhouse.
Grand Masonic ball at Tamworth on St. John’s
Night, 23rd June,
The Waverley bazaar attracted the youth and
beauty of the eastern suburbs.
A Brisbane belle—a most accomplished girl—has
for some weeks been the attraction of Redfern.
Some Campbelltown ladies, including Mrs.Yardy,
Mrs. Airey, and Miss Rudd, are arranging an attractive
concert.
Fair Portia, a Castlereagh-street beauty, is the
coming belle of Sydney society. Her relatives were the
pioneers of one of the Hunter districts.
The engagement is announced of Miss Corisande
Gorges to the Hon. Alfred Egerton, late Grenadier
Guards, brother of the Earl of Ellesmere.
According to present arrangements, the marriage
rate in the Western Suburbs (Burwood) Musical Society
is higher than any other known musical record.
A scion of a well-known family of London
brewers is to be married in the winter to the juvenile
daughter of the late cashier of the Commercial Bank,
Hobart.
That “ most attractive daughter” of the wealthy
Glebe land-owner is to be married to one of the smartest
young fellows in Sydney, who is engaged in Pitt-street.
Wedding trousseau ordered for May.
Four hundred invitations to the fancy dress
ball, to be given at Yass by the Mayor on the 24th May.
We should be glad to report a similar notion
from other of our prosperous inland towns.
One of the best vocalists in that suburban
musical society, whose personal appearance is no less
charming than her voice, has been insured in a Pitt-
street office. Life-policy shortly to be issued by a
clergyman.
Sleeveless dresses having given such marked
satisfaction, it is now proposed to make a clean sweep of
it by doing away with the little bit of ribbon across the
shoulder, and by which the waist is sustained. Won’t
that be nice ?
A double wedding will take place on the 4th of
May between two daughters of an ex-Premier and two
rising land agents of this city. The ceremony comes
off at a pretty country church, the native village of
the brides. The invitations are issued.
The prettiest girl in the Pirates on Friday
evening was the eldest daughter of a veteran poet
resident in one of the western suburbs, who has lately
returned from a trip to Victoria. She was dressed in
black satin, with a bouquet of white at her throat and
in her hair.
The United Club, consisting of the leading
Americans in this city and several of the young bloods
of the colony, have secured splendid premises in
Macqnarie-street, nearly opposite Parliament Houses.
Tne club is in very flourishing financial condition, with
a large and increasing membership.
One of the effects of a performance of (a New
Zealand) amateur dramatic club has been that the
heroine has lost her lover. He waited on her next day,
and informed her that be could not think of standing in
the way of her becoming a great theatrical genius, and
therefore he withdrew his offer of marriage.
The Hon. George Henry Cox gave a fancy dress
ball at Mudgee last week, on the occasion of his re-
moving from the district to Minburn, Mulgoa. The
attendance was large, and the characters, among which
the Pirate King of course was present, were varied and
well-dressed. The ladies’ costumes were particularly
attractive. On the evening following, Mr. Cox enter-
tained his tenants at a ball.
The marriage of Miss Jeannie Langridge,
daughter of the Hon. G. D. Langridge, Victorian Com-
missioner for Public Works, to Mr. Best, took place on
the 13th at St. Philip’s, Melbourne. The bride wore a
handsome white satin, trimmed with Honiton lace, a
choice wreath of orange blossoms, brocaded veil, white
satin hand painted and crewel work fan, bouquet, and a
pair of magnificent diamond earrings, the gift of her
mother. The presents made to Miss Langridge were
numerous and very handsome.
A commercial clerk, rather much of a dandy,
employed in a city house, has had bitter ex-
perience of marrying for riches. He offered his heart
to a wealthy and dashing young widow. It was to her
£2OOO a year he wished to be united. It, however,
turned out after the marriage that the widow merely
wished a companion, whose company would allow her
a groat deal of latitude. The lady has her flames, in
Sydney. The poor clerk travels home to the mansion
in that marine suburb to dine—alone in a back room.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Lance Lenton and Wybert Reeve company on
the tapis.
Kate Foley and her son left by the last ’Frisco
mail-boat.
Mr. and Mrs. Greville have gone overland to
Melbourne.
James Carden comes to the Queen's in Sep-
tember next.
Miss Myra Kemble joins Allison’s company at
Adelaide, shortly.
The Misses Deorwyn are at the Academy of
Music, Ballarat.
Mr. H. N. Douglas made a hit as Romeo at the
Princess’, Melbourne.
W. G. Carey supports Clara Stephenson at the
Princess, Melbourne.
The London Comedy Company will close their
Adelaide season next week.
“ The Pirates of Penzance ” open about the
14th May, at the Opera House, Melbourne.
Wybert Reeve’s company, now at Sandhurst,
open at the Gaiety here after the opera season.
The “ Tambour Major ” troupe left Melbourne
for Adelaide on the 25th, crowds witnessing their depar-
ture.
Fred. Marshall opened at the Bijou, Melbourne,
last Monday, in a new comedy entitled “Jeames.”
Very successful.
The new Novelty Theatre, Melbourne, and four
adjoining shops, are to be pulled down, and a large
Varieties Theatre built in their place.
The damage done to the public hall, Mount
Victoria, by the recent fire, has been made good. The
hall has again been used for entertainments.
Mr. H. H. Vincent has won golden opinions
from the Adelaide Press for his impersonation of “ A
Party by the name of Johnson," in the "Lancashire
Lass."
From Ballarat we learn that Zulu Thompson
and his show are still a big success. “ Zulu," it is
expected, will retain possession of the boards for a
week or two longer.
The new theatre in Brisbane was opened with
“ Our Girls." The company includes A. W. Boothman,
E. W. Russell, L. Booth, Sam Poole, Maggie Forde,
Nellie Greenlees, and the Misses Marsh.
Miss Fannie Wiseman (Mrs. Willie South), one
of the best sonbrettes on the colonial stage, has selected
Sydney as her future home, and may therefore be heard
of shortly as appearing upon the boards of one of the
metropolitan theatres.
The gentleman amateur pianist hailing from
Potts’ Point, who created such a furore at the Infant
Home Concert last Saturday, by his performance of
Chopin’s Polonaise in O sharp, and Kowalski’s Marche
Hongroise, is a pupil of Mr. Sydney Moss.
A grand concert for a charitable olyect is to be
given at the Masonic Hall to-morrow (Friday) night.
A splendid new baritone, Mr. Phillips, will make his
first appearance, and with the consent of Mr. Williamson
Miss Josephine Deakin will give her services, rendering
on this occasion two new ballads, and she will also sing in
a duet from “ Maritana.’’ This will be the last occasion,
for some time at any rate, that Miss Deakin will be
heard in Sydney, as she proceeds shortly to Melbourne
with Williamson’s opera troupe. A host of amateur
vocal talent will support the artists mentioned.
“ The Royal English Opera and Pinafore Com-
pany" played “Maritana," “Pinafore," “The Bohe-
mian Girl," “ Grand Duchess," and “ Martha ’’ recently
at Forbes. The houses were not good, the Forbes
people having decided to wait for the circus.
The Misses Lucy and Amy Fraser, of Sydney
(now with the Kelly and Leon Company at Brisbane),
are regarded by the Queensland press as very promising
young artistes. A Brisbane paper speaks most favour,
ably of Miss Lucy Fraser’s Madame Lange in “ Angot." •
The male portion of the chorus in the “ Pirates
of Penzance ’’ is the best that has ever been heard here.
The policemen have fine voices, and all sing every note.
The consequence is, the Tarantara chorus is the best in
the opera. The tenors also show their quality in the
Pirates’ chorus, which is now nightly encored.
Pomeroy made a decided hit at Melbourne, as
Hermione and Perdita, in “A Winter’s Tale” —by
common consent one of the most admirable Shakes-
perian productions seen in that city for a long time. It
is possible that Miss Pomeroy will have to cancel all
her N.Z. dates, owing to her great success in the South.
On Monday next, at Darlinghurst Hall, a com-
plimentary concert will be tendered to Mr. Fairfax
Smyth, the well-known organist of All Saints’, Wool-
lahra. The great attraction of the evening will be two
original songs by the beneficiare—one of them, " Remi-
niscences,” written expressly for Mrs. Riley by the
author.
Mr. and Mrs. Tavares made their first appear-
ance before a Charters Towers audience on the 12th.
“ We had been prepared," says the local paper, “ from
the unanimous concurrence of the Southern press to
expect very careful and elaborate acting, but our ex-
pectations and those of a very appreciative and critical
audience were surpassed."
The Cardens opened at Dunedin on the 16th, in
“ Certain Proof.” Of Dick Thatcher’s new “ star,"
Miss Marston Leigh, the Otaoo Daily Timbs says :
“ She electrified the house, which rose at her." All
the Dunedin papers were unanimous in gashing about
her. Lucky Dick! Strange to say, they walked into
Carden, whom we know to be the best all-round actor
we ever had in Sydney.
The musical arrangements of South’s “ Pina-
fore" company, which is enjoying such a prosperous
voyage in the provinces just now, are entrusted to
Madame Anna King, sister to the original Major-
General of Williamson's “ Pirates of Penzance.” Ma-
dame King, who is a member of the Musical Society of
Victoria, is the first lady who has conducted a “ Pina-
fore ’’ orchestra in the colonies.
The Roma(Q.) Amateur Dramatic Club, assisted
by a number of friends, grave a very successful enter-
tainment on Easter Monday night. The concert, which
passed off exceedingly well, constituted the first part of
the entertainment. Misses Butler and McHwraith,Mrs.
Marshall, and Messrs. Knowles, Cardwell, Sheridan,
and Tolano were the contributors, and their efforts
found great favour with the audience. After the con-
cert, the burlesque of Aladdin was performed by the
members of the club with unequivocal success. Mr
Saunders accompanied the vocalists, and daring the
evening Mrs. Carter played fantasias in Irish and
Scoetish airs, and Gottschalk’s “ Le Banjo.”
Playgoers will hear with unfeigned regret of the
demise of Miss Emily Wiseman (Mrs. J. L. Hall), who
died suddenly, at her residence in Adelaide, on Tuesday
last. Singular to relate, the day of her death was also
the thirty-seventh anniversary of her natal day. Mrs.
Hall, in addition to her being endowed with histrionic
talents of a high order, was esteemed by the profession
and her private friends for her amiable disposition and
her large-heartedness. Mr. J. L. Hall, at the time of
his bereavement, was fulfilling an engagement in
Brisbane. Mrs. Hall was quite an “identity *’of the
Australian stage, she having made her first appearance,
when she was only twelve years of age, at the old
Queen’s Theatre, Melbourne, in 1855.
LATE SPORTING.
Triokett is to pull Boyd in September.
The antidote for betting—“ Sweep” it out.
Skating contest at the Exhibition building.
The local clergymen patronised the Forbes
races.
Trickett’s second match with Kirby will be
rowed in a month’s time.
Mayo refused .£5OO for Black Swan after her
last win. She goes to the stud.
Mulatto, the Victorian racehorse, was lately
attacked by a dog and severely hurt.
Ted Briscoe, of course, wins all the trophies in
the Carlton second eleven this season.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club formally
close the season to-day (Saturday). A lunch will be
given at Athol Gardens.
Mr. W. Long was the real purchaser of the
Tattendon-Lady Chester colt which fetched 1205
guineas at the Bandwick sales.
The familiar face and burly figure of the veteran
“pug.” Harry Sallars, have, during the last few days,
adorned “ the block ” of Sydney.
Black Swan’s performance in “ humping ” home
list 71bs for a mile and a quarter in 2 mins. 17 2-lOths
secs, stamps her as one of the best weight-carriers in the
colonies.
The weights for the Dnbbo Jockey Club Handi-
cap are published. The Dean is not fit or else he
might win with 7 st 12 lb; Nancy Lee and Waxy with
7 st 7 lb each should have a great say in it.
A race for homing pigeons from Douglas Park,
45 miles from Sydney, took place on Saturday last, and
resulted in a win for a bird belonging to Mr. Foot, of
Surry Hills. The time taken was 62 minutes.
“The Forbes races were the best that have ever
taken place in the district. The prizes were of an in-
creased value, more entrances, better handicapping,
closer finishes, &c. The Farewell Handicap was one of
the grandest races ever run. For third place six horses
ran a dead heat.
In the six days’ go-as-you-please tournament, at
Adelaide, Edwards secured first prize, having covered
451 miles; Swan came next, 423; Harris third, 400;
Abby fourth, 385. Malcolm failed to save his stake by
two miles, breaking down at 373. Baker retired from
the contest after doing about 150 miles. Over 20,000
people visited the Exhibition Building during the
contest.
The Hunter’s Hill Amateur Athletic Club hold
their sixth sports meeting on the Hunter's Hill Cricket
Ground on Saturday, 7th May. The entries for the
various events are filling up well, and there is every
prospect of a successful meeting. Admission is by in-
vitation, and visitors will be conveyed by special
steamer leaving Circular Quay at I‘3o p.m. The en-
tries for scratch events close on Saturday evening next,
20th inst., at Aarons’ Exchange Hotel, at nine o’clock.
The fourth annual contest between the Balmain
and Glebe Borough Challenge Cup, was completed on
Easter Monday, on the Association Ground, and
resulted in a victory for Balmain by 79 runs. Balmain
scored 133 and 125, to which Barnes, 36, Murdoch, 43
and 15, Elder, 17 and 19, Deane, 35, Catt, 14, and S.
Deane, 19, were the principal contributors. Glebe
made 107 and 72—Apperly, 54, Maidwent, 26, Evans and
Hawkins, 12 each, being the highest scorers. The Cup
has to be won thrice in succession, so that if Balmain
win the next match, the trephy will become the
property of that Borough.
The Roma (Q.) “Athletic Club had a very
successful day’s sports on Easter Monday. Between
600 and 700 attended the grounds, and twenty-nine
events were on the programme, which were carried out
in a most successful manner. The results of the prin-
cipal events are as follow: —Maiden Plate, 100 yards; R.
Buchanan 1, Lowe 2, Lockett S. Easter Handicap,
three events.—First event, 100 yards: Lockett 1, Gar-
land 2, Lowe 3; second event, 200 yards. Garland 1,
Yaldwyn2, Lockett 3 ; third event, 300 yards. Garland
1, Lowe 2. Lockett 3. The prizes were £7 7s. and £3 35,.
which were gained respestively by Garland and Lockett.
Putting the light stone: J. Taylor covered 33 ft. 10 in.
Bunning hop, step, and jump: J. Taylor, 39 ft. 7 in.
Putting the heavy stone: T. Perrier, 26 ft. Sin. Boys
vaulting, under 15 years : Beury and Roach tie, 6 ft. 7in.
Standing high jump: Monahan, 5 ft. 2 in. Three
standing long jumps; Monahan, 33 ft. 4 in. Handicap
flat race, 300 yards : Yaldwyn 1. Tradesman’s race, 150
yards: Lynch 1. Standing long jump: Monahan, 12 ft.
5 in. Handicap hurdle race, 250 yards, over 8 hurdles
3 ft. 6 in. high: Yaldwyn 1, Wieneke 2.
CRICKET.
A match was played on Moore Park on Saturday
between the Perseverance C.C. and the Merksworth
C.C., which resulted in a victory for the P.C.C. by 20
runs. Scores, P.C.C. 36—M.C.C. 16. The batting of
Brown and Melville, 10 each for P.C.C. was good, and the
bowling of Hinchy and Chippindale for P.C.C. was ef-
fective, Hinchy taking 6 wickets for 3 runs. The wicket
keeping of Brown for the P.C.C. was excellent
A match was played on Moore Park last Satur-
day between the Young Oxford and Aurora clubs. The
result was a very easy win for the Y.O.’s by 45 runs.
Scores: —A.C.C. 14, and Y.OC.C. 59, of which the
batting of Breakwell (21) and Atkinson (11) for the
Y.O.’s and the bowling of Breakwell and Gibb were very
good for the same. The bowling of Perris did good
service for the A.C.C The Petersham C.C. defeated
the Newtown club somewhat easily on Saturday last,
on the Petersham ground, by 38 runs. Owing to the
excellent bowling of Percy Marr and G. Seale (the
former obtaining 5 wickets for 9 runs, the latter 3 for
17) backed np by the good fielding of the whole team,
the visitors only managed to score 27 runs, Payten 12,
not out, being the only batsman wno made any stand.
In their innings the Petershams did much better, the
innings closing for 65 runs. M. Seale 15, not out, J.
Seale 13, showing good form. In the second innings
theNewtowns lost eight wickets for 40 runs. ......The
Alexandria Club of Double Bay had an enjoyable
playing tour through the Hunter district during the
Easter holidays. At Newcastle they defeated the
Undannteds by 5 wickets and 3 runs. Defeated the
Morpeth Club after a severe contests by 9 runs. At the
Patterson, the team were defeated —the local team, who
showed fine form, winning a one-innings match by 60
runs. The Sydney men where everywhere treated
most hospitably An interesting cricket match for
a trophy, valued at £lO, took place on Saturday last on
Farmer’s ground between the " Stingarees ” and
" Leather Jackets,” and was won by the former with
two runs to spare. Tooher, Butler, and Herbert for the
"Leather Jackets." and Warren, Brennan, and Diz-
mock for the “ Stingarees,” exhibited very good
cricket. Future selection committees would do well to
keep their eye on Butler, the well-known footballer, as
he is one of our coming bowlers A match was
played at North Shore last Saturday, 23rd, between the
Orleans and Universal clubs, which resulted in a victory
for the former by 37 runs—the scores being, Orleans
41, Universale 4. The bowling of A. Dind and Hun-
tingdon for the victors was excellent, and for the losers
the bowling of Woods and Webber was also very good.
A match was played in Moore Park last Saturday
between the Pioneer and Oxford clubs, and resulted
in a victory for the former by four wickets.
Scores: P.C.C., 18 and six wickets for 24; 0.C.C.,
23 and 18. The bowling of Grogan and Keogh
for the Pioneers was very good, also that of
Mayhew and Stewart for the Oxford club
A match between the Hero of Waterloo© and Gran-
ville clubs took plack at Eveleigh on Saturday. The
scores were 63 and 31 respectively, the Waterloo
players winning by 32 runs. Dibley, Howe, and Hillier
bowled well, and Newberry, Andrews, and A. Pope
batted capitally The Alexandria and Waverley
clubs met for the first time this season at Double Bay,
on Saturday last, the result being an easy victory for the
former on the first innings by 26 runs. Scores :
Waverley, 16; Alexandria, first innings, 36; second,
four out for 56. Messrs. John Macintosh and H.
Ellis bowled grandly for the local team, the former
securing 5 wickets for 4 runs, and the latter 4 wickets
for 5 runs Nationals v. Penrith: Nationals 101,
Duncan making 30 and Percy 26; Penrith, 53, Cleave
being top scorer ; Duncan and Perry bowled well, as
did also Evads for the losers Nationals v. Carling-
fords : Nationals, 85, Duncan making 22, Carroll 13, and
Evers 13; Carlingfords, 47, Brodie making 12, Sly 11,
and Barry 10; capital bowling from Ogilvie, Dunam
and Brodie Nationals v. Woollahra Victorias
(Couldn’t they get a fionger name ?): Nationals, 81;
Victoria. 13, of which Griffiths was top; for the
Nationals, Duncan took 6 wickets for 4 runs, at Wat*
kins 3 for eight runs; Pitt and Foley bowled well for
the Victorias The Balmain Collingwood and Elswick
Clubs met at Balmain last Saturday afternoon, when
the former won by 30 runs, the scores being 39 and 9
respectively. For the former, Messrs. Seymour and
Hegarty batted very well, and for the latter, Messrs.
Kackler and Little. The bowling of,Messrs. Hagerty
and Taylor was very destructive.
To the Readers of The Balletin.
Owing to the extraordinary pressure on our ad-
vertising space, we are compelled to omit from
this issue a vast amount of interesting matter.
However, we have much pleasure in stating that
substantial amends will be made next week, when
there will be printed, under a new heading, the
first instalment of a series of short and pithy
articles, contributed by the foremost journalists
of Australia. This new departure, we feel as-
sured, will at once establish The Bulletin not
only in its present position of the liveliest colonial
paper, but will cause it to be regarded as one of
the most solid of Australian publications.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Forty Italian immiganta remain unhired.
Oxford-street tram line is to be doubled.
The Hydaspes takes .£200,000, in gold and
specie.
The Lusitania took 600 gallons of frozen miiy
with her.
The Alberton Meat-Preserving Works, Adelaide
wound up. ’
Potosi, Orient liner, left London for Sydney on
the 19th April.
The Aconcagua delivered her Australian man H
in London in 37 days.
Lambton colliery closes while the present low
price of coal continues.
The Hero arrived on the 22nd, fetching from
Hokitika, N.Z., £30,705 in gold.
The cost of the Melbourne Exhibition is
£311,169, and the receipts £43,426.
Two fishing parties on the Lillie Denham, on
Thursday and Sunday, caught 1040 schnapper.
The Wangaratta hospital scandal has resulted
in a clean sweep of the officers —male and female.
The Executive Council consider next week the
case of the condemned men lying in provincial gaols.
Woods’ brake was recommended at the Mel-
bourne Exhibition for the German Emperor’s special
prize.
The Sydney and County Bank has been regis-
tered under the Companies Act, and commences busi-
ness shortly.
The affair between Dan Mayne and Tonkin, of
Bathurst, has been very much magnified; a settlement
is not unlikely.
The Rosetta, Suez mail boat, which arrived on
the 22nd, did the run from Galle to Melbourne in
seventeen days.
The larrikins held high revelry on the harbour
steamers when returning after dark from the picnics
on Easter Monday.
Abraham Ambrose Cutsey was sentenced last
week to seven years’ penal servitude for arson at Mary-
vale Station, Queensland.
A Brickfield Hill draper, who some time back
compromised with his creditors, is about paying his
liabilities in full. Good man 1
Mr. J. A. Lucas has been promoted to Mr. Max-
well’s position as Registrar at the District Court, the
former occupant having retired on a pension.
A New Zealand paper states that the secretary
of a Wellington Building and Loan Society had
absconded, leaving a large deficiency in his accounts.
The Agricultural Society’s show, thanks to the
unceasing labours of the secretary, is a decided success.
We hope Mr. Moser will be able to keep up the annual
shows.
Judge Josephson has temporarily become Insol-
vency Commissioner; Judge Wilkinson succeeds Judge
Josephson; and Mr. E. Bennett presides at the District
Court in place of Mr. Wilkinson.
The condemned man Wilkinson, now awaiting
his doom in Albury Gaol, made certain communications
to the local Police Magistrate a few days ago, which
have since been sent to the Executive Council.
Mr. Bawden, ex-Member for the Clarence, has
been committed for trial at Grafton, in the matter of a
criminal libel on the police magistrate, Mr. M’DougalL
Mr. Bawden was admitted to bail on his recognizances.
The expedition in connection with the Queens-
land continental railway scheme leaves London in the
middle of May. The names mentioned are Colonels
Fielding and Scratchley, also one engineer and a
geologist.
On Sunday evening at the Theatre Royal, Mr.
Charles Bright will deal with the Chinere question from
a missionary point of view. The title of his lecture is
—“ The Heathen and the Gospel, or Chinese material
for Christian conversion.”
One of the great land sales of the season is
Auburn Downs, fixed for Saturday, April 30, by Messrs.
Batt, Rodd, and Purves. The land has been well laid
out in good large blocks intersected by wide streets,
and is situated near the railway station.
Messrs. De Castella and Rowan, of Hubert’s
Vineyard, Victoria, have gained the Emperor William’s
grand prize for wines. The prize (£2OO worth of plate)
is given for the best industry whose products were
exhibited at the Melbourne International.
Mr. Tidswell, of the Great Britain Hotel, corner
of George and King-streets, bought the right of
Williamson’s Metropolitan from Mr. Prank Hutchinson
for £4OOO. The A.J.S. Bank purchased TidswelTs hotel
and the premises adjoining with the intention of
erecting in their stead a splendid bank building.
A melancholy affair occurred at the Glebe on
the 23rd. Mrs. George Booth fell down the stairs at
her residence, daring her husband’s absence, and when
found, some hours afterwards, was dead. Mr. Booth
had that morning left home to attend the funeral of
his brother, who had the previous day been drowned at
Parramatta.
City tram extension: —From Hunter-street to
the Circular Quay, the route being across Hunter-
street, through Curtis's timber yard, along Phillip-
street. Eventually the line will be taken through the
Argyle cut, and along Kent-street, to meet the Western
extensions coming from the direction of Darling Har-
bour and Pyrmont.
The Liguria, Orient liner, arrived in Sydney on
the 22nd, from London, via the Cape, Adelaide, and
Melbourne. Passengers:—26 for the Cape, 32 for Ade-
laide, 85 for Melbourne, 92 for Sydney, 10 for Tasmania,
and 18 for Now Zealand. Her cargo was29B tons for
Adelaide, 650 for Melbourne, and 1450 for Sydney. Her
average speed on the outward voyage was 13.70 knots.
Sir William Manning committed M. L. Salomon
on the 22nd, for contempt of Court. Salomon was
executor to Matilda Stiggle. By his account, on
November 16,1880, in the Ecclesiastical Court, he ad-
mitted that he was possessed of a balance of £976. On
March 22, 1881, Mr. Justice Hargrave ordered him to
pay the sum of £B9B to the residuory legatees. This
order had been made a rule of Court. The money not
having been paid, the legatees obtained on April 20 a
rule nise to attach Salomon for contempt.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Candahar evacuated by the Britiah.
Agrarian disorders increasing in Ireland.
Albanians worsted in an encounter with the
Turks.
The American crops have been damaged by
frosts.
The Greek Minister for War resigned, being
opposed to the peace policy of his colleagues.
The British Parliament re-assembled on the
25th, and proceeded at once with the Irish Land Bill.
The Irish agitators declare the new Land Bill to
be quite inadequate to the exigencies of the situation.
Four palace domestics confess to the murdering
of the late Sultan Abdul Aziz—or rather, Abdul as was.
French troops crossed the Tunisian frontier.
Hostilities feared, and an outbreak of fanaticism
expected.
Remains of Earl Beaconsfield interred beside
his wife’s, at Hughenden Manor, in accordance with the
Earl’s last expressed wishes.
Gladstone proposed to the House of Commons a
national monument to Lord Beaconsfield in the shape
of a monument in Westminster Abbey.
Gladstone offered a public funeral for Lord
Beacensfield’s remains, but in compliance noth
directions in the will of the illustrious deceased the
ceremony was performed with strict simplicity.


NEXT MONDAY.
NEXT
AT 11.30 O’CLOC
UNRESERVED
OF THE
WHOLE OF THE A
IN THE
MILL HILL f
WAVEELEY E(
i_ .
AT THE TOLL BAR, AND ON 1
fJIHE SALE of the MILL I
(generally known as Hongl
LAST OPPORTUNITY to bt
in thia locality. All other Si
ont.
EVERYBODY SHOULD BUY
on
MILL HILL I
BECAUSE
1. The LAND ia to be sold on s
10 PEE CENT DEPO
MONTHLY PAYMENT!
cent.
2. The LAND is to be sold NE3
out Reserve.
The LAND is the MOST E]
around, giving Good Drai
of the Harbour, Sydney, ]
Waverley, and Eandwick.
4. The TEAM runs to and past
of journey, 20 minutes
Trams run all day, fron
Fares, 4d,, far cheaper
ling.
CONTINUATION OF TH]
SALE FEOa
LAST SATUBI
of
AUBURN DOWNS. AUE
WILL COMME]
AT 3 p.m.,
THIS DAY, SAT
APRIL 30tl
FREE RAILWAY TICKETS
TO IN
«• NOW EEAI
CALL and OBTAIN ONE, and a 1
CHOOSE YOUE O
BEFORE THE DAY (
BATT, ROOD, and ]
Auctioneers.
AUBURN DOWNSIDE
CONTINUATION of GREA
SALE.
THIS SATURDAY, ,
Resolutely withoui
JJONA-FIDE, PROVED L^
AUBURN DOWNS. AUB
A ÜBURN DOWNS. AU
ÜBURN DOWNS. AU
B
EST SECTIONS THIS S.
Free tickets, free
AP PLICATIOf
o
iBTAIN LITHO. and FRI
JNSPECT
DURING THE W
8
PLENDID BUILDING ST
AUBURN DOWNS. AUB
R ÜBURN DOWNS. AU
R UBURN DOWNS. AU
THIS DAY, SA
APRIL sot:
QN THE GROUND, AT 3
■RyiTHOUT RESERVE.
BATT, ROBD, ANI
AUCTIONEER
THE RIVERSTONE
EIYEESTONE
THE EIYEESTONE :
682 AGEES, SUBDIVII
222 BLOCKS.
IMMEDIATELY OPPOSITE
STATION.
BEAUTIFUL UNDULATES
SUITABLE FOR ORCHARD
FARMS, and COUNTED
B ATT ’ E ODD, and
Have received insti actions to sei]
NEWTOWN, NEXT SA
SATURDAY,~3Oth
ON THE GEOU
THE THUENBY El
NEWTOWN RAILWA
*JT Some of the best sites pnrcl
sale, fronting
TEAFALGAE TEEEi
GLADSTONE STEEI
26 LOTS, including Nos. 5 to
TOEEENS’ TITLE. EAI
TTaedie AND (
Will sell, by order of Mr. BOSS, o
P ’ m '’ NEXT SATUEDAT, 301
26 LOTS, THUENBY ESTATE,
WAY STATION.
10 PEE CENT, deposit, interest
LAND BUYEES, AT
Land so close to the station mas
Q N THE G
SATURDAY, 30th
AT 3.30 P.M.,
21 CHOICE
of about 5 Acres i
FOWLER’S 1
CAMPBELLTCV
Is convenient to the EAILWAY S
Is on the Main Government Eoad;
Is splendidly ELEVATED LAND,
is in every way suitable for Builc
purposes;
Is surrounded by many palatial
E. L. Moore, Esq.’s, and John Hi
Is liberally subdivided into large bl
each, and in such a way that any
a large block.
The Government have purchased
opposite Fowler’s Farm for a N
the richness of the soil.
Campbelltown is so healthy that :
living within 10 miles of the plae
The Tramway to Camden and the
course of construction, are mak
ahead.
Eents have risen, and there is noi
the town to rent.
Campbelltown is only one hour’s i
rail, and many business men,
others travel daily between thi
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Amidale land revenue for the quarter, <£13,815.
While two sisters and a brother named Hong, were
engaged clearing land at Eylstone, on the 20th, they set
flre to a tree, which fell as they were at their meal,
killing the eldest girl, aged 17, and injuring the others.
220 loads from Burke’s claim, lower lead, Temora,
averaged 19dwts., in addition to the 300 oz. previously
picked out in nuggets 300 Chinese arrived in on
week at Vegetable Creek tin mines; dry weather
pends mining operations Albury objects, in her ow
interest, to the laying of a double line of rails bet wee
Albury and Wodonga An agitation is on foot for
extension of the south coast railway lines, viz., fro
Port Eden to Bega Mr. George M. Smith, manag
of Binenda station, Queensland, died suddenly on th
21st The Merkara, Queensland mail steamer, tak
1000 bales of wool and 500 or 600 tons of other carg
from Brisbane on her outward trip The Vi
torian Harbour Trust borrows £200,000 for the com
pletion of necessary works...... The eight hoi
demonstration at Melbourne was a very great success
The closing days of the Victorian Intercolonia
Exhibition drew large crowds Sixteen exhibitor
all Victorian, with one exception, were recom
mended for the Emperor of Germany’s prize at tl e
Melbourne International A Chinaman knocked dow
by a train on a Victorian line, was saved by being throw
between the rails; the locomotive and carriages passed
over him without injuriing him Frederick Bentley
Professor of Music, suicided at Hawthorne, Victoria
insane Valiers, ship, laden with cedar logs, stranded
on the Queensland coast, fetched £520 Joh
Beveridge, jun., guilty of manslaughter (having acce -
lerated the death of his wife with a broomstick), wa
sentenced to six months The Central Eoad Boards
South Australia, oppose tramway construction Th
MU.O. Oddfellows held a most successful moveabe
committee meeting at Albury last week; next year
meeting to be held in Sydney Victoria defeated New
South Wales in the small bore rifle contest, by thirtee
points, the scores being 1091 and 1078 respectively; th
match was the first of a series now revived after a
interval of six years Fresh and active specu
lations in Sydney, in bank, steam, and other like shares
with th© result of a general rise Mrs. Matheson, o
Casino, who was just recovering from a recent accouch
meet, took by mistake, in her nurse’s absence, an over
dose of a sleeping draught, and diedin consequence....
The man killed by the tram in Sydney, on the 20th, wa
named Martin Fahey, a bootmaker of vagrant habits....
Two miners, Eatclifi and Krahl, were received at th
Sydney Infirmary from Temora on the 21st, sufferin
from accidental injuries received while at work....
Tangye Brothers’ patent steam crane, with self-actin
bucket or grab, is used in alluvial mining operations a ;
Araluen; cost, about £2OOO Twenty-five acres a;
Black Eange, Albury, secured for mining purposes b
Victorian miners Two French liberes from New
Caledonia were convicted recently at Auckland o !
larceny At Gundagai, thirty head of well-conditionec
cattle are offered in exchange for thirty good layin
heusl This is owing to th» want of grass on th
northern border of the Gundagai district Two case
of arson near Carcoar Great complaints over th
irregular payments to railway employees in N. S. W
Splendid machinery and freezing appliances at th
Orange Meat Works, from which meat in a frozen stat
is supplied to Sydney and will shortly be sent pe
steamer to London Fallon, and Green and Co., both
Albury vignerons, are winners of prizes at the Mel-
bourne International The last catch of the Nimrot
Club was 1023, mostly schnapper Mr. E. C. Harper
one of the pioneers of Stanthorpe, is dead
Two brothers, Stewart, have been arrested at Nowra
for a felonious assault upon another brother Dr. Carr
the mesmerist, is at Tamworth For killing a bnlloel;
a man at Tamworth got eight years, and for killing
brother another man got two years Several house
robberies recently at Tamworth The test case agains
Cobb and Co., for breach of contract, in not carrying
passengers in a reasonable time but making them wall:
several miles between Wileannia and Mount Browne
resulted in a verdict for the passengers Swallow ant
Ariell, the well-known biscuit bakers, have devised a new
method of utilising surplus meat, by making beef bis
cnits, composed of beef, chopped small, and mixed with
flour. A shipment of these biscuits is being despatched
to London, and others are to follow to divers countries
of Europe At a meeting of the directors of the Vic
toria Tramway Company, on the 22nd instant, applica
tions were received for upwards of 70,000 shares. It was
decided that the balance of the first issue of 100,00(
should be open to the public for a few days longer
Writs have been issued against numbers of miners
working on the Barr estate at Mudgee......The first pair
of budgerigars ever taken alive from Australia to Eng
land, was sold for £22. This was about twenty-five years
ago Now, these birds can be bought in the London
market for Bs. a pair Splendid gold finds at Coro-
mandel, N.Z Mrs.Clarke,who fell down the Eotorua’s
hold while coming up N.Z. coast with the intention of
going to San Francisco, has died in Wellington hospital.
Mr. Warden Sellheim is despatching a prospecting
party from Charters Towers to the Cape, by order of
the Queensland Government Thady O’Kane and the
Mayor of Charters Towers are not friends; in other
words, Thady is flinging his adjectives around. Some
of them have accidentally hit the editor of the opposi-
tion paper 500 tons of stone from the Day Daws
claim, Charters Towers, gave 17170 z Numbers of old
Gympie miners are returning to the field A writ
for slander has bees issued by a pressman well known
in Queensland against a Brisbane bank manager. £2OOO
damages are claimed Enormously rich specimens
found in North Glanmire claim. Gympie Nine
steamers, of a total tonnage of 5310 tons, called at
Cooktown within the space of twelve days, recently
IOOOoz. of gold per week is being received at the May.
town Warden’s office, and 65000 z. were expected by the
escort, due about the 13th From the Conglomerate
to the German Bar and beyond, the country (says the
Cooktown Herald) is a network of reefs, many of
which would make prospectors and investors’ fortunes
on “ the Comer,” at Ballarat, or “ the Mall," at Sand-
hurst, without either salting, swindling, or insolvency.
The beche de-mer fishing is one of the most suc-
cessful industries connected with Cooktown, and it
could be extended to such a degree as to employ hun-
dreds of whites and thousands of blacks, if there
were better protection and more capital About 150
Waterworks men were in Campbelltown last Saturday
night, creating some noise. One of them was robbed,
going home, of £2O A 13ft. alligator was seen in the
Fitzroy, alongside the wharf, at Eockhampton Mr.
Matthew Hannam, well known in Queensland, died re-
cently at St. Helen’s station. Emerald, near Eockhamp-
tou New tin lode discovered at Herberton, Q
Forty-five inches of rain, only, in five days, on the
Johnstone Eiver, Q Splendid finds in No. 5
north Lady Mary, Gympie Mr. Nash, the first pros-
pector of Gympie, recently visited the field The
Eavenswood silver mines are proving immensely rich ;
yield 3670 z. to the ton, exclusive of 70 per cent, of
lead A rich silver lead is reported to have
been discovered near the Townsville Eoad The
celebrated Thadeus O’Kane, of the Miner, Charters
Towers, has got a writ from Mr. Swanwick, the person
who was thrashed some time back by the editor of
Brisbane Punch Mr. I. Lissner, of Charters
Towers, has given £lOO to the local charities New
South Wales will soon be able to supply itself with
sugar. About 24,000 acres of cane will do this. Last
year 17,229,2961b5. were produced. In 1864 only 2801bs.
The 400 graduates with 1000 undergraduates in
Melbourne University have subscribed £l5OO for the
Barry statue Several Sydney chemists fined last
week for selling poison to persons without taking the
precautions required by law Captain Eossi, of Goul-
bum, has been appointed clerk of petty sessions at
Tumut Mr. James Conway, head-master of the
Newcastle public-school, has been appointed to Fort-
street, Sydney, vice Mr. Willis, recently made inspec-
tor During the Easter Holidays 30,010 persons left
Sydney by rail, which is about half the number of those
who arrived Bowen jetty is closed for 12 months
for repairs, cost to be nearly £lO,OOO, all vessels to be
Ughtered Fever is very prevalent on the works of
ths new Bundaberg railway A Melbourne Clothing
Company have sold their business for £17,000 Colo-
nial Bank dividend, 8 percent Kennedy, a publican,
of Saudridge, attempted, pistol in hand, to compel
three men to pay him for their drinks. They took the
weapon from him, and one of them fired, the ball strik-
ing him in the abdomen. At latest accounts, Kennedy
was dying The Wakatipn brought 80 English navvies
from New Zealand for the Armidale railway extension.
.......Shipmasters and Officers' Mercantile Marine Asso-
ciation of Australasia has been formed in Sydney
The New Britain natives recently feasted on a Honolulu
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J.D.8.” (Young) : Your par. is too long, and
as much mixed up as Hungarian salad. Send us the
facts, and leave the jokes to us “P. A." :
Bather too blue for us. Try the Holt Howl
“ 5.8.” : Capital selection. Glad to hear from you
again “ Hockey ” : Thanks for your note. Tour
idea has been partly anticipated " K.C.8.”: Send
along again “Q." (Mackay): You are on the right
track •‘Tourist”: Glad to hear from you again
“ T.K.Ij."; There’s neither wit nor humour in your
paragraph “Egus”: Held over “ A Jewish Cou-
sin"; Next week, perhaps “W.JJ”: Will be con-
sidered “ Skylark ” (Tamworth): Unavoidably held
over "J.E.T.”: Not of general interest “One of
the lumber": Already referred to.
Hennessy’s Hotel, Toowoomba, one of the
finest inland houses in Queensland, is advertised in this
day’s issue.


BRIEF MENTION.
Roll up ! No Chinese!
Proctor’s legacy—M’Gubben!
More fires at Auckland. Bad times still.
Carpenter’s plaster at the Town Hall draws
well.
Motto of certain Sydney publicans —Keep
“Still.”
A paradox. — Eve writing fashion notes. A
Sydney weekly.
“ The Garden of Eden ” is to let, at a low
rental, near Lismore.
Query: Can. say an arson case, be tried in the
absence of the accused ?
The Waverley tram is lop-sided. The attraction
is that Paddington beauty.
Rats desert a sinking ship. No allusion, of
course, to any Sydney newspaper.
We’ve been attacked by a brother journalist.
We now call on him to blow out a candle.
A certain Northern musical composer’s last
effort was a composition—with his creditors.
The Tamworth News was deeply pained to
hear of the death of the late Benjamin Disraeli.
A certain Minister of the Crown, so far as the
boarding-house is concerned, is a “ thirty-bobber.”
When an Alderman interrupts the Town Clerk,
it is only with difficulty that he can keep his hair on.
The Town Hall clock has stopped. Has the
man they keep inside it to turn the hands got drunk ?
An effort is being made to secure Moore Park
as a cemetery for the convenience of Darlinghurst gaol.
A charitable lady residing not far from the
Domain, keeps her servants on the trot from 5 a.m. till
1.30 a.m.
The teetotal swindles at the Town Hall will cost
the country a square £30,000. How’s this for piety and
cold water!
It will not surprise many to learn that the illicit
still at the Glebe was found near a newspaper man’s
residence.
The title of a new London weekly, which came
to hand by the mail, is Sage and Onions. Savoury,—
so isn’t the journal.
The Emperor of Austria is said to play the
violin superbly. This is why the Empress so frequently
requires change of air.
Mr. A. remarked out at the races the other
day that the Threepenny Frozen Beep was going
up. We shouldn’t wonder.
Is it true — can it be really a fact ? — that the
hangman has remonstrated with the authorities for
fixing executions at race time ? .
The Kellys have in Victoria blood
numbering seventy.seven. The one in Sydney on a
daily paper makes seventy-eight.
The rumour is that an editor is going to leave.
The people take a deep interest in ms welfare, but a
much deeper one in his farewell.
They’re quite as smart as we are in China. A
general there has 2000 soldiers and draws pay for 5000.
There is some foundation for this.
Some of them have been aldermen, and others
of them have tried to become aldermen. And they’re
all mixed up in the Town Hall swindles.
The witty little Punch did not come out the
other week. Nobody remarked it. What people are
surprised at is to see it come out at all.
The Weekly Dean complains of shooting on
a Sunday. It is very wrong. You never hear of them
at home shooting a landlord on Sunday.
The Echo’s Newcastle telegram states :—“ The
export of coal for the week is 183,607 tons.” Some mis-
take here; shouldn’t it be 1,188,607 tons.
The Japanese officers of the Riujio are buying
nothing much in Melbourne, having bought all their
soap, clotheslines, and new boots in Sydney.
There is a new line of 'busses running to Kissing
Point. We regret to say the ’busses are crowded with
ladies. Looks as if we must have a tram soon!
On the race-course on Monday, when an ex-
Mayoress swept by us, on the lawn, we were much
" struck by the passing train." Yet we survive.
The Shoalhaven News did not get the Roda-
now Watch Company's advt. The presumption, of
coarse, is that the paper was not known in the States.
The Prince of Wales spends £3OOO a year in
wedding-presents. What a run there must be some-
times on the electro biscuit-boxes and sardine-openers !
In the Presbyterian, D. L. Moody begins an
article by saying:—“ We don't get much by merely
reading the Bible." No, old boy; we don’t—but you do.
It was not till after Beaconsfield’s last work was
pronounced a literary failure that the new permanent
contributor, “ Endymion," appeared in the Queens-
lander.
There was a stand-up battle between some
females at Randwick Asylum the other day. The ex-
hibition was given to the children in lieu of a trip to
the circus.
Very deep regret is felt at Grafton over the
death of Beaconsfield. “He was a great Liberal," says
one paper, and the death notice is put in between
inverted rules.
When a Tumut telegram stated that “ a goose
had got entangled and much injured in a telegraph
wire," several persons called on Joe Eckford M.P. to
express their sympathy.
In a case in Queanbeyan, in which a man was
charged with being drunk and using obscene language,
Mr. Gale appeared and gave the prisoner a good char-
acter. One month.
A Melbourne paper says:—“lt is calculated
that over two millions were spent in Melbourne during
the holidays.” And yet they come over here and run a
paper to get a living.
Kill a man in South Australia without murder-
ous intent and it is manslaughter; “ accelerate ” your
wife’s death (with a broomstick, scientifically), and it
is manslaughter also.
The Campbelltown Herald has reprinted
the whole of our sketch of Garrett—and has acknow-
ledged it. There must be something honest in the
Campbelltonian atmosphere.
One can urge nothing against the unclean en-
deavouring to become clean. But that doesn’t justify
nymph* du pavS performing their ablutions on the public
beach at Coogee in the middle of the day.
The daughter of the Victorian Minister for
Works was lately married to Mr. Best, a Melbourne
lawyer. This is the only case we can remember of
their being two “ Best men " at a wedding.
It is with much regret we write that since the
Redfeen Times started, burglaries have been on the
increase in that suburb. We believe, however, the
burglars do not take the paper. They merely take the
jewellery.
What we’d do without the religious papers we
don’t know. This from the Express .—“ Mr. R. Forbes,
late P.M. of Balranald, has by the death of a relative,
inherited an estate in Scotland worth £160,000." Now,
who is Mr. Forbes ?
That the £4O penalty clause of the Election Act
is in direct opposition to the sentiment of the people is
proved by the fact that in nearly every case where can-
didates have become liable, the money has been sub-
scribed by the public.
In another colony, he won a distinguished young
lady’s prize for “ displaying the highest personal evi-
dence of good breeding.” In Victoria, a few Sundays
ago, he was worshipping in a church, and he roughly
excluded a stranger from his pew.
The Threepenny Atkinson gave a cup re-
cently in the interests of sport. As, however, the paper
contains so little of interest to anyone but stock dealers
and sqnatters, they say at Tattersall’s that you get
more of their cup than you do of their “ lip.”
Scientists have recently proved that the dimen-
sions of the human head in England, during the last 25
years, have shrunk one-seventh of an inch. We don’t
think it matters much. Now, if Sir ’Enry had had a
smaller head, a lot of his friends wouldn’t have shrunk
a quarter of a mile from him.
The Canterbury Times is indiscreet. It
says:—“ Fletcher, the London spiritist medium, tried
for obtaining the property of a lady ‘ under the in-
fluence,’ has been sentenced to twelve months’ impri-
sonment.” It should have been explained that the lady
was “ under the influence ” of spirits.
Quite a galaxy of talent was interested in the
gates at Randwick this year, and it is satisfactory
that everything went square. It was a speculation of
five gentlemen. They comprised an M.P., a mayor, a
J.P., a publican, and a sinner—we mean an auctioaeer.
The bulk of the money went to Penrith.
“ It is true,” says the Holy Howl, “ that the
Pope has no horns growing out of his head." This is a
signal lowering of the colours, and marks the disap-
pearance of the Rev. Dr. M'Gibbon from the editorial
chair. It further gives some color to the rumour that
Archbishop Vaughan bought the rev. doctor out.
“ Prince Carl Theodore of Bavaria, the medical
brother of the Austrian Empress, has just performed
an important operation upon a patient in one of the
Vienna hospitals." It’s all very well for the Weekly
Times to talk about Prince Carl Theodore, but we
should like to hear something about the patient.
“Eye-peeping” is the new game. Two holes
are made in a screen. The performers stand behind it
and place their eyes in the holes, while the persons in
front guess whom the eyes belong to. This pastime
can also be played with noses, only all the men who
hang about Roberts’s comer would be clean out of it.
Paying as interest on -£46 the sum of £9O in
three years is not good financing. This is what a
poor struggling family was compelled to pay who had
got into the toils of a loan office somewhere in the
neighbourhood of the Supreme Court. And the tableau
is this—Sold off, and the family turned into the streetj
The circulation of the War Cry, the organ of
“The Salvation Army,” is 120,000 weekly. We don’t
know what the circulation of the Freeman is. Some-
thing under this, we believe. Under or over—but we
must apologise for making (inadvertently, however) use
of a gaming expression when writing of such holy
journals.
It is now a certainty that M’Beath will not be
prosecuted. How about a public meeting to express
sympathy with the unkind treatment he has expert-
enced, and to present him with a testimonial ? Poor
David ! As many darts have been thrown at him by the
public as Saul threw at his namesake when playing
before him.
The Evening Cook sneers at the idea of a
statue to the late Mr. Bagot. Quite right. A mere
sporting man, who only provided healthful entertain-
ment to thousands, shouldn’t have a statue. One to the
Glasgow Bank robbers we’d readily subscribe to. They
robbed thousands.
The Echo has the following: “The
Goulburn Herald of the 16th winds up a very
•good’ leader with a quotation from the New Testa-
ment.” The point of the Echo’s joke, we suppose, is
that the quotation should have been at the commence-
ment of the leader.
That was a neat little bit of work on the part of
the Foreign Newspaper Agency man. He got the
Sydney dailies to send their flies to a celebrated Con-
tinental capital, for the use, do you understand, of
foreign notabilities. It turns out now that the agency
man was here doing business for the British and Foreign
Pipelight Association. <
Says the Lyre : “ Haygarth’s management of
the Queen’s was favourably commented on by all —like-
wise the orchestra, which took well. ‘ Hamlet,’ a new
production from America, will be produced shortly,
with Mr. Tiddlewinks in the titleroll of the Gost. It is
a sensational peace founded on a domestic dispute
among the Danemarks.”
The Crown Princess of Prussia (Princess Royal
of England) and her Majesty have been cool. They
had a tiff when Her Royal Highness was on her last
visit to Windsor. The rumour is that the Queen ob-
jected to her daughter putting jam on top of the oleo-
margarine. The quarrel is now patched up, and Vicky
is about to return to her ma.
It is with pleasure almost amounting to ecstasy
that we inform our readers that the new Spanish
Ambassador to the French Republic’s style and titles
are simply Don (formerly Signor) Manuel Falco Carlo
d’Adda, Prince of Pio de Saboya, in Italy, and Count
of Castel, and Almonazor in Spain. That’s all. What
unassuming people these Spaniards are !
The shareholders of the Presbyterian now
breathe freely for the first time this twelve months.
The following notification appeared in the last issue of
that journal: “ Presbyterian Newspaper Companv,
Limited. A fourth and last call of seven shillings and
sixpence per share has been made." We wonder how
soon the debenture scrip will be issued 1
The Herald, our great missionary organ, is
being converted at last. Speaking of Good'Friday, it
says:—“ The weather was splendid for yachting, picnic-
ing, and horseracing.” We hope to see some smart
auctioneers take advantage of next Good Friday, and
advertise a big auction sale, say of Hunter-street
property, or of its South Sea Island Branch Mission
Station.
Now this is a neat little compliment. It is from
the Mudgee Independent: —Miss Haywood presided
at the harmonium, and she did her work well. I under-
stand this is the first time for her to play in public. If
this is true, when she gains a little more confidence,
she will be able with the ivorys to soften the hardest
heart.” And yet there are complaints against the
local glucose.
Prior to a recent banquet given by Sir William
Curtis at the Albion, London, he despatched one special
messenger to Westphalia to choose a ham, and another to
Belgium to secure a fine haunch of Ardennes mutton.
Three weeks afterwards Sir William was not a little
disgusted to find that both his messengers had pur-
chased the viands in the Borough Market and “ drunk”
the travelling expenses.
The Evening Reprint of our morning con-
temporary declares that “ housebreaking during church
hours should be more severely punished than if perpe-
trated at any other time.” So should murders. Now,
he would not like to be certain, but we’d almost bet our
family bible the writer of that par. is one of the white-
tie fraternity, who runs a prayer-house on Sunday, and
concocts denominational slanders on Monday.
There is considerable consternation in some of
the Government departments, through the issuing of
an order that payment for overtime work is to
be wholly discontinued. The Colonial Treasurer,
with his usual watchfulness of the public
purse, and craving for notoriety, no matter in
what form, has flatly refused to pay the claims
of the unfortunate clerks who had vouchers at
the Treasury when the order was promulgated, not-
withstanding that their payment was duly authorised
by other Ministers. We doubt whether the Cabinet
intended its action to be retrospective.
Near Belfast, Victoria, lives a “ bloated
oligarch,” who has on his estate (some thousands of
acres) but one man, to whom he pays 10s. per week as
wages. When pay-day arrives, and “slavey" receives
his cheque in the “parler,” he is induced to indulge in
a quiet game of “forty-foives," in which the master and
his “bigger” half join. When the excitement is
deemed sufficiently fascinating to suggest that a stake
would give greater interest to the game, the poor
fellow, flattered by the condescension of his master and
my lady, and hoping to be as successful in his chances
to win the stake as he has been allowed to do when
playing for “ nix," ventures a half-crown on the game,
and is led on and on until the whole cheque finds its
way back into the hands of the drawer, who generously
throws his dupe a shilling, and orders him to bed. This
is a fact.
The estimated number of Baptist churches
throughout the world is 26,505, pastors, 17,683,
members, 3.473,088. These statistics, however, were
compiled long before the Easter Monday picnics, and
therefore do not represent &c., &c.
“ Archdeacon Marryat, on his return to Ade-
laide, after a trip home, was presented with an address
of welcome, and 100 sovereigns.’*
They get it when they go away;
They get it, too, when they come back;
We wish wc knew the “ gentle way ”
The parson’s own peculiar knack—
(All other knacks it truly licks !)
Of raking in the “ spondulix.”
Says the Camden Times: “On Good Friday,
our local team went to try conclusions with the Camden
Park team. They were bountifully received, and an
excellent repast of a bucket of cold water and a tin-pot
provided for them by the Lord of the Manor.” The
reckless system of hospitality indulged in by our very
own Mayor is evidently bearing fruit. If the “ Lord of
the Manor” had fastened the tin-pot to the bucket with
a chain, the hospitable rites would have been complete.
Another big public blunder. Who is responsible
for the Parramatta River and Iron Cove bridges, which
each cost the country £50,000, being constructed of
such poor strength that they cannot with safety be
trusted with a tram motor ? Parliament, a few years
ago. on the motion of the Hon. William Forster,
definitely decided that no bridges should be constructed
by the Government except of a strength sufficient to
bear a railway. Happy country! Robbed by her
patriots.
Just beneath the heading of the Lyre is a
standing intimation that that journal has “ the largest
circulation of any daily newspaper in New South
Wales.” O shades of Morell and Lindley Murray, has
it, come to this! We never knew that one could use
the superlative degree in comparing any two " things”
—daily papers not excepted. We strongly recommend
Alfred to get a grammar. Bad grammar isn’t grammar.
A second-class public-school boy—but we’ve tried this
before: it's of no use.
It is said the Empress of Austria once horse-
whipped a gentleman on the grand staircase of the
Imperial Palace. Smarting with his wounds, the
chastised one rushed into the presence of the Emperor
and demanded redress. His Majesty shrugged his
shoulders, and bestowed upon him the order of the
Iron crown, fifth class. When we first read this, we
thought the story a queer one, but Gus. Wangenheim
has since informed us that the Iron Crown, fifth class,
is equivalent to a C.M.G.
We have before us a copy of the South Pacific
Times (Lima, Peru), of January Bth. It bristles with
war news, of course, but the choicest morsel is a de-
scription of a “ fierce combat, which lastei three
hours,” in which several thousand men were engaged,
with the result of “ three men wounded, and one mule
killed.” We suppo'se the mule died of sheer disgust,
but we regret that before his untimely decease he didn’t
turn his rear to the Peruvians and lay t hem out, after
the fashion of King Sennacherib’s filibusters.
Mr. Darwin (of all men) has been charged by
Mr. Samuel Butler, author of “Erivon,” with gross and
wholesale plagiarism. The eminent naturalist has
commenced an action for slander against his accuser,
and the case will shortly come off in the Court of
Queen’s Bench. Prior to the issue of the writ, Mr.
Darwin vigorously defended himself in the columns of
Nature. It would be too much to believe that the
illustrious author of the “ Descent of Man ” would
follow up his theory to the extent of ape-iug the ideas
of Mr Butler.
This may be taken as gospel truth. If a
Municipal election were on just now, so disgusted are
the people of Sydney at the swindles of the teetotal ring
in Municipal affairs, that not a man in any way identi-
fied with the disgraceful jobs would be returned. One
thing, we must be careful to guide the people from —that
is, of wreaking their entire vengeance on one man.
The persons responsible for the corrupt jobs at the
Town Hall are the members of the ring who gave them
appointments. These are the men to be transfixed at
the next election.
An enterprising journalist is pushing his way
into the far north, a newspaper being projected at
Emerald, on the Central railway line, 160 miles beyond
Rockhampton. This is good news. There is evidently
a field in the “Never Never” country for obscure
journalists, and eloquent par-writers on native produce.
This should be a comfort to the members of the staff of
a certain journal we could mention. The Aramac, now,
would be a good field for some of them. There are no
theatrical critiques to be written up there, and von can
have your own still.
Yes, dear Moribund Morning Maudlin, you
may be a very nice paper indeed, only people in general
don’t think so. Public sentiment is often stronger than
the law. The letter of the law may protect and there-
fore encourage one paper, and it also may, as you re-
mark, do no more than tolerate the existence of another;
yet the same public sentiment which sends the latter
journal on the road to fortune may consign the former
to the gutter and land it, not on the drawing-room
table, but on the counter of the butcher or on the rattle-
trap of the saveloy vendor.
“ Captain ” Sutherland, of the “ Salvation
Army,” will shortly arrive here “ General ” Booth it
appears has been sent home. It’s a pity the General
didn’t accompany the noble Captain, as then when he
camped out upon the plains and lived on locusts and
wild honey, if he hadn’t got his tent, he would always
have his Booth. We expect the Salvation Army will
knock spots out of the Gospel Tent crowd, and that
even the boy with the cloudy socks who sweeps out the
office of the Olv Owl will waver in his allegiance. O
let us be joyful. Hallelujah 1
Says the Campbelltown Herald :—“ There
are two swords on view in the window of Grattan’s
Press Agency, Pitt-street, Sydney, which are great
curiosities. One was used by Richard Coeur de Lion,
and the other by Robert Bruce, the Scotch king.” We
wonder now where Grattan’s shield is 1 He puts it on
his bill-heads and advertisements, so we should like to
see the original. It was kind of Richard of the lion
heart and old spider Bob to give Grattan their fighting
irons, but we suppose they all fought in the same battle
together, and Oriel Lee performed such prodigies of
valour as to elicit their undying admiration.
The cause will be apparent to even a revivalist
when we declare on oath that if the whole of our last
issue were formed into a ribbon, and then spread out, it
would reach thirteen miles—that is, from Circular Quay
to Parramatta—or if the same issue were sewn up into a
sort of cloak it would hide not only the Town Hall,
but the whole of the bungling connected with it also.
This is.inddfed, a " blessed thort," as our Domain divines
would say, but our motto is " Advance," and we don’t
intend to rest until the ribbon will stretch from this to
Cobar, After that we’ll rest a week, and then prepare
for the North Pole. p p »
There is a paper published in Auckland called
the Free Lance, which is quite a marvel of dnlness.
In it the editor says:—“ The most famous sportsman
in Auckland is W. F. Buckland His record
as a deerstalker stand (sic) higher than that of any other
Nimrod in Auckland. On Saturday last he bagged two
fine bucks on Reed’s Island. Mr. S. Mon-in and Major
George shot one apiece, but Mr. Aitken was not in
luck. ... . Mr. W. F. Buckland presented this
office with a goodly share of the spoils of the chase.
.... Venison is high—had mine with jelly.” We
wonder who gave him the jelly 1
A sub-misleader in a recent Echo unblushingly
says—“ The public ought to be grateful to those gentle-
men who with so much personal inconvenience have on
the bench resisted recent applications for the multipli-
cation of publicans’ licenses." It is very evident from
the above that the temperance cause is rampant
amongst compositors. There was a time when the
average “ comp.” would grab that copy with fiendish
delight, set up “ personal” interest instead of incon-
venience, and then, after wrecking perhaps a score of
lives, coolly polka up to the editor’s chair and ask what
about that rise in his hard-earned salary.
When the Dean takes to writing sporting, he
should be correct in his facts. Thus in flowery
language about the boat race .—"The good-humoured,
and withall really plucky manner in which our gallant
little crew of scullers took their defeat, speaks well for
their mettle and argues well for their future. Three
times have they gone forward to do battle upon the brine
with Victoria, and three times they have been beaten.”
Had we been in the flowery mood we would have said—
“ Four times have they gone forward to do battle upon
the O’Brine with Victoria, and three times have they
come back licked. The odds at starting in clerim.l
circles were ten to one.
The Duke of Manchester learnt to play cribbase
on his way down to New Zealand in the Wakatinu
Dick Thatcher was his tutor. "Don’t know this
game?” said Dick. "Why, an English duke is the
patron saint of cribbage players! Fore peg and deal is
the Duke of Beaufort’s game." Whereupon the Duke
tackled the “ fifteen-two ” business, and when pro-
ficient challenged the Ladies Anne and Mary Marsham
who were his fellow passengers. The Hon. Marsham
was a fourth. It was some fun, Dick says, to watch the
game. The ladies would not say “ go,” but “ sufficient,”
and, instead of “ one for his nob,” “ I score one, seeing
that the knave I hold in my bar d is of the same denomi.
nation as the card in the pack.” Fact.
Madame Lotti Wilmot, the lecturess (who, by
the way, prevailed on a Sydney jury a short time back
to give her £l5O damages in a trumpery newspaper libel
case), has rendered herself for ever famous by rather
strange proceedings at Auckland, on the 6th April. A
case of criminal assault was being investigated, and
though the usual order for all females to leave the
Court had twice been given, Lotti decided to remain.
The order then from the bench was that all respectable
females should leave the Court, and that those who
were not respectable should be ejected. Lotti still re-
mained in her seat, but finally yielded when the officer
of the Court threatened forcibly to expel her. The door
was slammed after her, and locked to prevent her
intrusion again.
The Grand Duke Alexis, brother of the present
Czar, a few montt s before the “ old man’s ” death, was
sent on a European tour, with peremptory instructions
to find a suitable spouse in the course of his travels—
not an easy task, considering the ugly scandal which
nob long ago made his name so notorious. When he’d
been away about a month, he sent word that he rather
fancied a little opera-bouffe actress at the Theatre de la
Monnaie at Brussels —would she do ? On this the late
Czar wrote back saying that if he didn’t mind his
stops a new enquiry would be instituted into the
mystery of those missing diamonds. No one as yet
knows to whom Alexis will throw his cambric, but, as
Edmund Tates, in Truth, remarks, “it is certain, at
least, that there is not the slightest foundation for the
rumour that he will become the husband of one of the
Queen’s grand-daughters.”
There are just a few paradoxes in this “ ab-
ducted” tale now running in the Evening Alfred. On
the 18th iast. reference is made to “ Baby, a beautiful,
black-eyed, round-faced, rosebud-lipped, snow-white
piece of infantine perfection, who crowed in his
nurse’s arms, and seemed actually to begin to notice
our Mary’s pretty little devices for attracting
his attention and inducing those glorious dark eyes
—inherited from his mamma —to follow the coral and
bells she danced before them.” On the 22nd we are
told that this same beautiful baby “ was the brightest,
sweetest, merriest, and noblest little fellow in the world.
He had his father’s large blue eyes and his mother’s jet-black
hair and eyelashes.” Now, Alfred, how’s this ? Do you
really follow “copy” from the original tale in the
London Journal, when it was called “ Our Mary or
Murder will out.” Surely this is a more suitable name
than “ The Abducted 1” Alf. you’ye botched it.
THE CYCLE OF DEATH.
THE GRIM EECORD OF THE MONTH.
There is no doubt that death, in its violent form, moves
in cycles, like Corporation teetotal swindles. To wit,
for the past month: —
1st —John Bradford, farmer, murdered near Murrum-
hurrah, by (it is alleged) his wife and son.
3rd—Mr. Balfour, killed at Liverpool Plains, by fall-
ing from his horse.
4th—Mr. C. A. Rodgers, J.P., killed by a fall from
his horse, near Camonha.
4th.—John Maclean found dead, supposed to have
been murdered, near Inverell.
sth.—Southcombe, said to be of good English
family, suicided near Gulgong.
6th —John Barton killed near Junee—a log rolling
over him.
8th —John Nnllie killed at Newcastle; collided with
another horseman.
8th —George Hill, master mariner, drowned in the
Yarra.
Bth—Thomas Callemar suicided at Sandhurst to avoid
prosecution for larceny.
Bth—F. Bentley, music teacher, suicided at Haw-
thorne, Victoria.
9th.—Thomas O’Brien killed on the railway at Red.
myre.
9fh. —John Rooke drowned in Darling Harbour.
10th.—Catherine Beaumont killed by a fall down
stairs, in a house in Merriman-street, Sydney.
10th.—William Dodd drowned in Sydney Harbour,
his boat capsizing.
10th.—Charles Bennett, seaman of the Corby, drowned
at the Circular Quay.
10th —A child, four years old, accidentally killed by
her brother near Casterton, Victoria; loaded gun.
10th—Mrs. Cecilia Oldham, sudden death at Tam-
worth.
10th—Nancarrow, a cricketer, killed at Torke’s Penin-
sular; attempting to catch a ball, he fell backwards,
and broke his neck.
11th—Mary Ann Phillips and George Cobb, drowned
at Broken Bay, their boat having capsized.
Hth—George Gotwald, child, rilled at Qoulbum ; run
over in the street.
11th.—Daisy Elizabeth Leeds, one year and nine
months, drowned in a bath at the Glebe.
12th —A. Negus, killed on the Botany Road ; thrown
from a cart.
12th —Robert Wells, suicided near Carcoar.
13th —Mrs. Matheson, of Casino—death from an over-
dose of “ sleeping draught.”
15th—William Looney, killed near Campbelltown;
spring-cart capsized.
15th—W. H. Clayton killed by fall from a house at
Granville.
16th—James Foy, employed on the dredge at West
Kempsey, drowned.
16th—Macaulay, Clerk of Petty Sessions, suicided at
Rockhampton.
16th—John Wilson and John Shea, sailors, drowned
at Miller’s Point; drunk.
17th—M'Carthy, a jockey, killed at Broadford, Vic-
tori a.
17th—Mr. Edwin Thornton drowned near Dnbbo,
attempting to cross a river after having received severe
injuries to his hand from a gun.
17th—Two children named Bums burnt to death near
Bathurst.
18th—Henry Monaghan killed at the Sugar Company’s
Works, Pyrmont; fell from a loft.
18th—Henry Hadden, cook on the Lusitania, drowned
at the Circular Quay.
19th—Lie bier, pearl merchant, of Perth, supposed to
have been murdered.
20th—James Mahoney, builder, killed—thrown from
his horse in Drnitt-street.
20th—Nine blacks drowned at Maryborough.
20th—Richard Dyer killed in a public-house at
Willunga, S.A.
20th—A vagrant, unknown, rilled by the tram.
20th—Francis Booth drowned at Parramatta.
20th—Mr. Adam Winter killed near Tamworth by a
fall from his horse.
20th—Lewis Mead killed at Petersham—on the rail-
way.
20th —Martin Fahey killed on the tram, Sydney.
21st—Frederick Byford, steward of the barque Drover,
suicided near Newcastle.
21st —Ross killed at Pine Range, Albury,—a limb of a
tree falling on him.
22nd —Man, name unknown, suicided at Botany.
22nd —Benson, a young man, killed at Femtree Gully
—a waggon falling on him.
22nd —Francis Booth, drowned in the dam at Parra-
matta.
23rd —Constable Ryan drowned at Port Douglas.
23rd —Nathaniel Shipway killed at the sugar works,
Pyrmcnt.
23rd—Mrs. George Booth killed by falling down stairs
at her residence. Glebe.
25th—Andrew Paul drowned at Penrith.
26 th —Jean Host, formerly a publican of Sydney,
drowned near Nowra.
26th—Mr. Charles Robinson killed, thrown from his
horse at Pyree, near Nowra.
27th —Boy drowned off Long Nose, Parramatta
River; boat cut down by a cutter.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
M‘lndoe and Corbett meet on the 30th inst.
A gnccessfnl regatta was held at Auckland on
Easter Monday.
A Grafton backer of Eush will stake .£l5O for a
match with Laycock.
A match has been arranged between J. J. Power
and C. Reynolds, for £lOO.
Some splendid fish have lately been canght at
the Bridge, Parramatta River.
Bnsh scored well at the Hawkesbury, bnt he
didn’t do as well over the Cnp.
The South Australian yachting season closes on
Saturday with special sailing races.
The Duke of Manchester was present at the
Canterbury (N.Z.) races on Easter Monday.
Two red deer costing .£2OO arrived at Melbourne
recently to the order of Sir Samuel Wilson.
Draper of Victoria, is allowed to be the best
all-round rifle shot in the Australian colonies.
The Australian mare Maid of Honour, won the
Tradesmen’s Handicap at the Auckland Meeting.
It is said that Mr. W. Long lost about .£l5OO in
vragers through Grand Flaneur being unable to start.
Horse-racing must be improving, for the present
inevitable duty of sporting scribes is to report Progress.
The Victorian intercolonial eight-oar crew have
been feted on all sides since their return to Melbourne.
The Sydney Gymnasium will be open for ladies.
Classes on Tuesday and Friday mornings from 10'30 a.m
12 noon.
Somnus won the Champagne Stakes at the
Christchurch meeting, Yattendon-Peeress colt 2nd, and
Nonpareil 3rd.
The gunna.l general meeting of the Sydney
Rowing Club was held at the Exchange Hotel on
Wednesday evening.
Bob Watson has gone into the country as a
commercial traveller, there being no probability of a
match with Applitt.
The Melbourne Cricket Club have it in contem-
plation to erect a new and handsome pavilion on their
ground at a cost of £3OOO.
When the Wandering Jew was christened (?),
did his name have any reference to the manner in which
he ran in the Sydney Cup ?
Petrea and Progress, both from the celebrated
St. Albans stables, were credited with the Leger and the
Cup of their respective years.
Mr. Andrew Towns, of Hobartville, Eichmond,
has purchased Grand Flaneur for stud purposes. £4OOO,
we are informed, is the figure.
The Glebe Eowing Club has arranged that a
rendezvous of its members shall take place on the
first Saturday of every month.
The stud mares purchased by Sir Hercules
Robinson for the Auckland Stud Company, have been
landed in New Zealand in fine condition.
We hear from our N.Z. correspondent that Le
Loup will not race again, but will go to the stud. He
has been purchased by Mr. James Shand.
The Auckland (N.Z.) police authorities have de-
termined to have the legality of race sweeps tested by
law. Proceedings have already been taken.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke, of Sunbury, Victoria,
owner of the yacht Janet, has been elected an honorary
member of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron,
The Dunedin Jockey Club hold a meeting on
Queen’s Birthday, May 24. The Grand National
Steeplechase also takes place on the same date.
Letters received by the English mail state that
Lord Harris intends retiring from cricketing this
season, and is to be presented with a testimonial.
The four-oared gig imported to Auckland from
Messrs. Swaddle and Winship, 'for the Intercolonial
Regatta recently held there, has been sold for £3O.
Oxford has now won 20 and Cambridge 17 of the
English University boat-races. The time for the last,
which Oxford won by four lengths, was 21 min. 56 sec.
Five thousand persons spent .£40,000 in gam-
bling over the last Dunedin races; by means of totalisa-
tors, £15,000; consultations, £15,000 ; and bets, £lO,OOO,
A cricket match took place at Adelaide on
Friday between the University and Wanderer Clubs,
which resulted in the University scoring 209, and their
opponents 127.
The Melbourne Bowling Team have been gran-
ted free railway passes during their stay here. A simi-
lar compliment was accorded to our representatives in
Melbourne last year.
The Canterbury Jockey Club Autumn Meeting
held on Easter Monday and Tuesday was well attended.
The big handicap was won by Lady Emma ; Sir Modred
2nd, the Governor 3rd.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Jockey Club at a largely
attended meeting, refused to endorse the disqualifica-
tion of the horse Mata and Bob Ray, the jockey, by the
Victorian Racing Club.
Two splendid Arab horses have recently arrived
at Melbourne from India, to the order of Captain Bagin,
who, if he cannot dispose of them in Victoria, intends
taking them to Tasmania.
The subscription lists in connection with the
Laycock Testimonial Fund will close on the last day of
the present month, and the presentation will be made
as soon afterwards as possible.
A protest against the Amy, winner of the late
sailing match at Brisbane, was allowed. The race
was arranged to be sailed again on Saturday next. The
Haidee will also take part in it.
Laycock has accepted Eush’s challenge to row
for the championship of Australia and £2OO aside, over
the Parramatta course. Rush’s new boat, made by
Swaddle and Winship, is to arrive shortly.
Mr. John Smith, of N.Z., has decided to name
the youngsters ho purchased in Australia a short time
ago as followsMaribymong (by-Maribyrnong), Yat-
tendon (by Sattendon), The Auk (out of The Auk).
Helmet fell in the Steeplechase, but Lady
Ripon had such a deal of running left in her that it is
questionable, even if the mishap had not occurred to
Helmet, if he could have succeeded in beating her.
Two bookmakers instituted legal proceedings
against the proprietors of the Totalisator at Christ-
church races, and the game was stopped. The plea
lodged by the bookmakers was that the totalizator en-
couraged gambling.
The fnll programme for the Grafton regatta,
which comes off on May 24, is now issued, and contains
13 events, the total value of the money prizes being £224.
Entries will close on the evening of May 21, at the
Crown Hotel, Grafton.
Mr. Jellett, the owner of Eichmond, entered a
protest against St. Albans, who rode Wandering Jew
in the race for the Sydney Cup, for having interferred
with Richmond whilst the race was being run. The
protest was dismissed.
Hearn, of Wellington, N.Z., has accepted the
challenge of A. White, of Mercury Bay, to row a match
in Wellington for £lOO, the course to be not less than
three miles straight, £25 to be allowed White for
expenses if he be beaten.
The Lithgow Handicap of 150 yards, which is
o take place on Queen’s Birthday, ought to prove at-
tractive to professional peds. The first prize is £2O,
Second £5, third £3, and fourth £2. Entrance 10s.,
acceptances 7s. 6d.
Pigott, one of our best jockeys, rode Islington
in the Welter Handicap on Friday, and was leading at
the turn when the horse came down, treating Pigott to
a heavy fall and breaking his collar bone. This is the
second time he has sustained a similar injury. At last
accounts he was progressing favourably.
The weights for the Brisbane Cup and Moreton
Bay Handicap are published. For the Cup, Barber,
Bst. 121 b., Canary Bst. 31b. nd Othello, 7st. sft., seem to
be best in; and for the Handicap, Canary, with Bst. /lb.,
should be a great “pot.”
The Auckland (not the New Zealand) Stud
Company’s imported mares arrived home in first-class
condition. With the three stallions they now possess—
Musketry, Cap-a-pie, and Anteros —the company should
turn out some “ clinchers.”
Owing to the Eandwick Races taking place on
Saturday, the Koyal Sydney Yacht Squadron manoeuv-
ring was postponed till Saturday, May 7. on which day
Commodore Fairfax will entertain the members of the
Club at lunch, at Chowder Bay.
The Auckland races were a big success. The
principal event (Easter Handicap) was won by the Aus-
tralian horse. King Quail, Foul Play (the favourite) 2nd
and Eawareta 3rd. The Hurdles went to Harkaway,
the Australian, Lone Hand 3rd.
Persona who have visited Christchurch, N.Z.,
know what' a splendid ground the cricketers already
possess in the heart of the city. Not satisfied with
this, another ground is prepared, and has reached the
stage of being sown down with grass.
Midwinter, the cricketer, leaves Melbourne this
month for England, to fulfil a professional engagement
with the Gloucester Club. It is very probable, however,
that he will pay the colonies a visit during the interval
between the English cricketing seasons.
The National Cricket Club have a splendid
record. Out of 31 matches they have scored 27 wins,
three being lost and one drawn. During the holidays
(eight days) they defeated easily the Clio, Penrith, First
Carlingford, an* the Victoria (Woollahra) clubs.
The race between Trickett and Kirby, in skiffs,
was rather slow, owing to the roughness of the water
and the high wind. The time was 40rain. 30sec. Kirby
has offered to pull Trickett again for £lOO aside,
over the usual championship course on the Thames.
Since the commencement of this season in New
Zealand, Eandwick (the Sydney horse) has started
nineteen times, has been placed first twelve times (once
a walk-over), second four times, third once, and un-
placed twice. The neminal value of the stakes he has
won amounts to £1365.
Courtenay wants to row Hanlan merely to see
who is the “best” man. Hanlan, of course, declines,
being already satisfied on that point. Ho has a stake
of £lOOO ready for the match, however. Courtenay de-
sires to pull for " love,” so that charges of> selling will
not be made by the losing side.
The Intercolonial bowling team was chosen after
three hours’ deliberation by the selection committee.
It is quite evident, therefore, that the team was not
“ cut and dried” before the meeting took place. We
sometimes know beforehand, however, who is to be
selected in our cricketing teams.
It is satisfactory to learn that, as the tram ac-
commodation for the return from Eandwick Eaces is
as yet so incomplete and necessitates some people
walking home, the Council have put up turnstiles in
the fences on the way. A most pleasant stroll can be
taken through the grounds between the road and the
tramway.
Davis and Kennedy, who have offered to accept
the challenge of Hanlan and Wallace Boss for a pair-
oar race, are said to form a splendid pair, to be well
well matched, and to have had long practice together.
The Wanganui, N.Z., Steeplechase meeting is
fixed for May 24. The programme consists of Handicap
Steeplechase, 225 sovs., 3 miles, second horse 25 sovs.
out of the stakes; Maiden Steeplechase, 100 sovs;
Grand Stand Steeplechase, 75 sovs.; Consultation
Stakes, 40 sovs. Nominations for the Handicap close
on May 2nd.
The following gentlemen have been chosen to
represent New South Wales in the Intercolonial
Bowling Match, which takes place at Annandale on
Saturday next: Messrs. Payten, Hiachcliffe, Eyan,
Johnson, Toohey, Baillie, Young, Allerton, Smith,
Davidson, Shankland, Burkitt, Cairns, Stewart, Bird,
and Sanford.
The Victorian Cricket Association have decided
that English teams are not to interfere with future
intercolonial contests. Although it has not been offi-
cially recorded, the New South Wales Association
arrived at this determination some time ago, and it is
through their suggestion that the Association in Vic-
toria have taken the present action.
About the Australian champion, an American
paper says “On his arrival in America, Trickett will
take part in several of our most prominent regattas.
Curiosity to see the bold Australian has somewhat
diminished since-he lost his former title of champion.
He will doubtless find scullers in the East who can
show him the lead on almost any course.”
A private letter from Ned Trickett, dated London
•March 6, states that a sculling match was being arranged
between himself and Kirby, to take place at Southamp-
ton, in 18 feet open skiffs. Mr. C. Lett was arranging
all matters connected with the race. Trickett further
states that he has backers to match him against any
man in England, but the prospects of a match are not
good.
The results of the second day’s racing at Forbes
are as follow ;—Produce Stakes: Faith 1, Devotion 2,
Lady Cavalier 3. Forbes Jockey Club Handicap:
Valentine 1, Warwick 2, Lady Barb 3. Time, 3mm.
42sec. Hurdle Eace, Idalia 1, Leonora 2, Stockwell 3.
Prince of Wales Stakes : Pimento 1, Baron 2, Prince 3.
Plying Handicap: Avalanche 1, Blackbird and Pimento
dead heat for second place.
After Rush’s late victory on the Clarence, some
of his most sanguine supporters offered to make extra-
ordinary matches for him; a challenge was issued
against any man in the colony, offering a few lengths
start in a three-mile course on the Clarence. J. J.
Power has lately responded to this challenge, but Ensh
has replied that he has no ambition to row any man in
the colony but one—that is Lay cock.
“ You never can tell till the numbers are up ’’
does not apply to the Eandwick semaphore. Great
inconvenience was experienced, especially by those
outside the saddling paddock, at the irregularity, in-
accuracy, and frequent corrections which took place.
As the wagers and sweeps depend upon the results as
shown on the semaphore, it is desirable that it should
be managed so as to be strictly accurate.
Sappho, the illustrious dam of many Australian
winners, brings to her owner, Mr. George Lee, from
£l2OO to £l5OO a year. In all, her progeny has real-
ised £7OOO for him. At the Eandwick saiga, last
week, one of the Sappho yearlings fetched 1450
guineas. Mr. Lee has kept for stud purposes two of
Sappho’s best fillies, and the mare has now a colt foal
at foot, which will fetch not less, probably, than 1500
guineas next year.
Mr. Rouse had great difficulty in getting good
starts during the Eandwick meeting, and he is to be
congratulated upon his success. The Welter Handicap
was, perhaps, the most troublesome. He could not get
the horses well together, each of the riders showing a
laudable desire to get away to the front. He called
Mr. Clibborn out to take the names of the offenders.
It is needless to add that the start took place imme-
diately afterwards.
Re the dark riding of Golden Crown at a
country race-m eeting in the province of Auckland. The
Auckland Eacing Club held a meeting to consider the
matter, and after hearing the evidence agreed to
disqualify the horse Golden Crown, the owner Mr.
Byers, and the jockey, who is a son of the owner, for
ever, from taking part in any race in connection with
the Auckland Eacing Club, or on any course where the
rules of the Club are in force.
The big yacht race in Moreton Bay, on Easter
Monday, was the event of the month among sporting
men. The Haidee, having sunk at Southport, was out
of it, a fact which diminished the interest in the race a
good deal, there being only two competitors left, the
Amy and the Eip, the former coming in a winner by
about 10 minutes. It blew half a gale throughout the
race, so most of the excursionists by the steamers had
rather a squallish time of it.
Several aquatic authorities have been trying to
discover the reason of our defeat in the late eight-oar
match, and in most instances have come at last to the
most ungracious decision that our eight was not the best
that could have been selected. The truth is, however,
that our best eight would have been beaten. There is
not sufficient attention paid here to rowing with fours
and eights—we are too much occupied with single and
double scull and pair-oar matches.
The footballers are rallying their forces for the
coming campaign, which will be opened shortly and
promises to be more interesting than any of the
former seasons. Moore Park will now, on Saturday
afternoons, be the rendezvous of the youth and beauty
of the metropolis. The season opened in Melbourne on
last Saturday, but scratch matches were the order of
the day, the great matches having been fixed later, so
that the players can gain time to attain the desired
form.
Hanlan met with a moat enthusiastic welcome
at Toronto. A reception committee with the Mayor at
its head conducted the arrangements, and the Lieu-
tenant-Governor of Canada came on to the stage at the
Opera House and welcomed him back to his native city.
He was presented with a splendid silver tea service and
a purse of 500 dollars. The public presentation of the
London Sportsman Challenge Cup also took took place.
Other presentations were made to him and a grand re-
ception was given him by the Lieutenant-Governor at
Government house.
The Southport (Queensland) regatta, this year,
was a decided success, many of the competing boats
having gone down from Brisbane. The large number
of pleasure seekers made the charming little watering
place quite lively. The principal race was for the South-
port Cup, won by the Eip. At the start the Haidee
was the favourite, but she was capsized and sunk by a
sqnall. Two other boats waited to pick up her crew, so
the race was virtually a walk over for the Rip. Several
minor mishaps occurred, but taken altogether a most
enjoyable day was spent.
After two meetings and a warm discussion, the
Dunedin Jockey Club passed the following resolution re
the Natator disqualification“ Having received a letter
from the Hon. W. Robinson, together with the explana-
tion of Mr. H. P. Lance, with regard to the scratching
of Natator for the Norbury Handicap, on the 26th Feb-
ruary, the committee consider the same highly unsatis-
factory, and express a strong disapproval of the course
pursued in allowing the horse to remain in the betting
nearly four hours after he had left Dunedin, and for a
loug time after Mr. Lance had decided to send the horse
away.”
At the sale of Mr. Redwood’s stud, Blenheim,
N.Z., the following animals were disposed of: —Chesnut
stallion Anteros, 425 guineas, to the Auckland Stud
Company; Frailty, two years, by Daniel O'Rourke —
Constance, was purchased by Mr. Westmeath for 151
guineas. Wainui filly, 164 guineas. The bay mare
Purke, by Towton —Toi Toi, with foal at foot, fell to
Mr Clifford, at 160 guineas. The Kororoi colt was
bought by Mr. Bates for 105 guineas. Numerous
other bids were made for the other horses on the cata-
logue, but not reaching the reserve prices, they were
passed in.
The final match between the Glebe and Dar-
lington Boroughs for the Challenge Cup was completed
on the Association cricket-ground on Easter Monday.
Glebe required 44 runs to win with two wickets to fail.
With Dummett and Kelly at the wickets, the hopes of
the Glebe were in the ascendant; but Dummett was
caught after adding only 2 runs to the score. Robertson
followed, and succeeded in scoring 13 runs, when Kelly
was bowled by Gribble for a well-earned 8. The match
then resulted in a win for Darlington with 21 runs to
spare. The cup has now become the property of the
Darlington Borough. It is a very elegant piece of work-
manship.
On Thursday last the Intercolonial small-bore
Rifle match, between Victoria and New South
Wales, came off, here and resulted in a victory for the
visitors by 13 points. These interesting contests have
been discontinued for some years, but it is to be hoped
that the importance of small bore matches will create
a desire to render them in future of at least an annual
occurrence. The contest was close, and though the
New South Wales contingent was strengthened by the
addition to its ranks of the well-known crack shot, Mr.
John Brushelle, it had to succumb to the superior skill
of the Victorians. The respective scores were 1091 and
1078; the principal scorers on each side were Sergeant
Draper (Victoria), who obtained 195 points, and Mr,
Grant (N. S. W.), who was credited with 190 points.
A meeting of pedestrians took place on Thurs-
day evening, at Punch’s Hotel, for the purpose of
arranging a day’s sport on the Association Ground.
At the meeting it was stated that application had been
made for the ground, but up to that time a reply had
not been received. The step taken is one in the right
direction ; we have our amateur athletic clubs in full
swing, but strange to say it has never been thought ad-
visable to institute a club for the encouragement of
professionals. In the interests of pedestrianism, a club
of the kind would, we are sure, be beneficial, and it
would certainly encourage the bringing-out of embryo
Watsons, Applitts, and Bakers, whose means at present
will not allow them to develope, for the sake of pleasure
solely, those gifts of wind and limb with which nature
has endowed them. £lOO has already been subscribed.
Mr. Gretton, the owner of Isonomy, was recently
requested to price him. He declined to do so, and a
direct offer of 25,000 guineas was made for the horse, and
refused by his owner. This reminds us that Lord
Westminster was requested to price Touchstone, and he
replied : “ I will not price him, but I will say that the
whole United States would not buy him.” Captain
Cooper paid for Blair Athol £10,500, but the Duke of
Westminster excelled this by paying £14,000 for Don-
caster. Messrs Merritt, of Virginia, purchased Priam
at £5OOO and imported him into Virginia, and Mr.
Pierre Lorillard paid a like amount for Mortemar. Of
these horses, so far as tried. Touchstone only attained
pre-eminence in the stud. Blair Athol has met with
only moderate success. Priam should have remained
in England, for there he was a success, but in America
a signal failure. Mortemar was not given a fair chance
in France.
The Australian Jockey Club Autumn
Meeting.
THIRD DAY.
The Two-year-old Plate, of 100 soys, for two-year-olds
—colts, Bst 91b ; fillies, Bst 71b. The winner to be
sold for £175; 71b allowed for every reduction of
£25 on selling price down to £so—any surplus to go
to the funds. Half a mile.
Mr. P. Wentworth’s hr c Mistletoe, £125, by Rapid
Bay—Parasite, 2yrs. 7st 91b (Williams) ... 1
T. Ivory’s ch g Stilton, £5O, by Stirling—Princess,
2yrs, sst 131 b (Matthews) ... 2
J. Cook ns br f Rebecca, £5O, 2 yrs, fist, carried
fist 31b (Cracknell) 3
Emulation, Master Ringwood, Wheel of Fortune, and
Estelle also started.
Betting : Level money on Stilton, 2 to 1 v. Rebecca,
3 to 1 v. Mistletoe, 4 to 5 to 1 v. any other.
Stilton lost a stirrup at the start, which, though he
struggled gamely at the finish, put him out of the race.
Rebecca stumbled also, and Mistletoe easily disposing
of Emulation, beat Stilton by half a length. Time,
61 2-10 s.
The All-aged Stakes, a sweepstakes of 10 sovs each,
1 forfeit, with 150 sovs added. Second horse, 20 sovs
from the prize. One mile.
Hon. James White’s br f Etna, by Maribyrnong—
Alpaca, 2 yrs, fist 131 b (Walker) 1
Mr. F. Wentworth’s b h Rapid Bay, by Talk o’ the
Hill—Miss Giraffe, aged, 9st lib (P. Pigott) 2
J. Morrison ns br h Wellington, by Panic—Frou
Frou, 5 yrs, 9st 11b (J. Yeomans) 3
HisiLordship, Marmora, and Royal Maid also started.
Betting: Level money on Royal Maid, 2to 1 v. Etna
or Wellington, 4 to 1 v. Rapid Bay, 5 to 1 v. any other.
Good start, Marmora taking the lead, with Wellington
close up. At the hill, Etna and Rapid Bay ran into
first and second places. This order was kept to the
finish, Etna winning by about three lengths. Time,
Im. 44 8-10 s.
The Welter Handicap of 100 sovs, for three-year-olds
and upwards; lowest weights, Bst, One mile and
a quarter.
Mr. J. Mayo’s hi m Black Swan, by Yattendon—Maid
of the Lake, 6 yrs, list 71b (J. Moore) ... 1
C. M'Donald’s bl c Zulu, by The Barb, 3 yrs, Sst
(Emsworth) ... 2
E. E. Jones’s br c Billy Nutts, by The Poet, 3 yrs,
9st (Barr) 3
Fourteen others started.
Betting: sto 4 Black Swan, 3to 1 Hildebrand, 4to 1
Billy Nutts, 5 to 1 to one any other.
After many unsuccessful attempts, a good start was
made, Islington and Hildebrand leading, with Black
Swan close np. At the trainers’ stand, Zulu and Billy
Nutts came up. Islington led at the turn, but came a
cropper in the straight, severely hurting her rider, P.
Pigott. Black Swan and Zulu had a race home, but the
heavy weight struggled gamely, and beat the son of the
Barb by three lengths. Time, 2m. 17 2-10 s.
The Substitute Stakes, of 10 sovs each for starters,
with 150 sovs added ; for then two-year-olds ; colts,
Bst 51b. Second horse to receive 50 sovs from the
prize. Six furlongs.
Mr. Edward Lee’s hr c Somerset, by Maribymong—
Keepsake, 2 yrs, Bst 101 b (Yeomans)... ' ... 1
Hon. J. P. Bell’s be Wheatear, by Epigram—Wheat-
sheaf, 2 yrs, Bst 101 b (Walsh) 2
Mr. J. Mayo’s b c The Gem, by Kelpie—lda, 2 yrs,
Bst 101 b (Eoarty) 3
Exeter, Faust, and Carissima also started.
Betting: Level money Somerset, 6to 4 The Gem, 2to
1 Wheatear, 4 to 1 Exeter, 5 to 1 any other.
An indifferent start —The Gem taking the lead.
Somerset gained on his horses in the straight, and
collared The Gem and Wheatear opposite the Leger
stand. A great race ensued, and Somerset won by a
head. Time, Im. 16 6-10 a.
The Cumberland Stakes, a sweepstake of 10 sovs each,
1 forfeit, with 200 sovs added. For three-year-olds
and upwards. Second horse 50 sovs from the prize.
Two miles.
Mr. W. Branch’s br c Progress, by Angler—Coquette,
3 yrs, Bst 21b (T. Hales) 1
E. De Mestre’s b c Orient, by The Marquis, 3 yrs,
Bst 21b (Riley) _ 2
No betting. Progress won, without whip or spur, in
3m. 40s.
FOURTH DAY.
The Rous Handicap, a handicap sweepstake of 5 sovs
« each, with 100 sovs added. For three-year-olds.
One mile and three furlongs.
Hon. J. P. Bell’s b c Canary, by Epigram—Caprice,
Bst 121 b (Walsh) 1
Mr. C. M’Donald’s bl c Zulu, by The Barb, 6st 101 b
(Emsworth) 2
J. Phair’s br c Partner, carried 7st 71h
(S. Davis)
Orient, Childers, West Country Dick also ran.
Betting ; 3to Iv. Canary or Zulu, 4to stol v. any
others. A good start, Zulu taking the lead, and he
kept it all round until entering the straight, when
Canary tackled him, and he compounded, the Queens-
land mare winning by a length. Time, 2m. 31s.
The Randwick Stakes, a sweepstakes of 5 sovs. each,
1 ft., with 100 sovs. added. Second horse 20 sovs.
from the prize. The winner of any stake (not a
handicap) of the value of 100 sovs. to carry 71b., of
150 sovs. 101 b, of 300 sovs. 141 b extra. Three-
year-olds that have not won a prize of any kind of
the value of 100 sovs. allowed 3lb, 4-year-olds 71b,
5-year-olds and upwards 101 b. One mile and a
quarter.
Mr. J. Morrison’s br h Wellington, by Panic—Prou
Fron, 5 yrs, lOst 21b, including 141 b penalty
(W. Yeomans) 1
J. Mayo’s bl m Black Swan, by Yattendon—
Maid of the Lake. 6 yrs, ; .9st (Huxley) ... 2
E. E. Jones’s ch c Greyhound, 2 yrs, 6st 111 b
• (Reid) 3
Betting: 2tol on Black Swan, 5t02 v. Wellington,
4 to 1 v. Greyhound.
Black Swan led to Cutt’s, when Greyhound fell back
and Wellington came forward. A race ensued, and
Wellington, wearing down the Swan, won easily by
about three lengths. Time, 2m. 16 2-lls.
Australian Jocket Club Plate, of 200 sovs, with a
sweepstake of 5 sovs each, 1 forfeit, to go to the
second horse. For three-year-olds and upwards.
Weight for age. Three miles.
Mr. W. Branch’s b or hr c Progress, by Angler—
-3 yrs, ',Bst (T. Hales) 1
J. Morrison’s br h Wellington, by Panic—Prou
Frou, 5 yrs 9st 51b (W. Yeomans) 2
Hon. Jas. White’s b h Martindale, by Maribymong
—Mainbrace, 6 yrs, 9sts lb (Huxley) ... 3
No betting. Progress won easily by about three
lengths, but a great race took blace between Wellington
and Martindale for second place. Time, sm. 455.
The Steeplechase, a handicap sweepstake of 5 sovs
each, 1 forfeit, with 150 sovs added. Second horse
20 sovs from the prize. Over such course and
jumps as the committee shall direct. About 3
miles.
Mr. W. Forrester’s b m Lady Eipon, 6 yrs, 9st 71b
(P. Corrigan) 1
W. Bailey’s br h Helmet, syrs, 12st (Floyd) ... 2
President, Forest King. Ranger, Pearl Diver, Spec-
trum, Wrangler, and Mari tana also started.
Betting: Level money v. Helmet, 2 to 1 v. Lady
Ripon, 3 to 1 v. President, 5 to 10 to 1 v. any other.
A most exciting race, characterised by the number of
falls, eight of the nine starters coming to grief. Helmet
and Wrangler came to grief at the second fence, but
the former was soon remounted and picked up his
leaders in the next round. Forest King refused the
fourth fence, and Pearl Diver ran round the fence at
Cutts’. Ranger came down heavily at the fence near
the trainers’ stand. Lady Ripjn now took the lead
and kept it comfortably, the only one to dispute it
being Helmet, who, pumped out by his exertions, could
not get past the mare. Maritana raced Helmet for
second place, but came down at the second last jump.
Helmet crawled in second. President ran into the last
fence and threw his jockey over it. Time, 7m. 265.
The Nursery Handicap, a handicap sweepstakes of
5 sovs each, 1 forfeit, with 100 sovs added. Second
horse 20 sovs from the prize. For two-year-olds.
Six furlongs.
Hon. J. P. Bell’s b c Wheatear, by Epigram—Wheat-
sheaf, Bst 121 b (Yeomans) .... 1
Mr. T. Chirnside’s br f Primrose, by Goldsborongh
—Corisande, 6st 121 b (Emsworth) 2
Marmora, The Exeter, Mistletoe, Valentine, Bene-
dict, Faust, Sardonyx, Carissima, and Testator also
started.
Betting; Level money v. Wheatear, 2to 1 bar 1.
A fair start; Primrose getting the best of it, led to
the turn, when Carissima came up; then Wheatear
made his rush, land Primrose made a great race, the
Epigram colt winning by half-a-length. Time, 1m
17 4-10 s.
The Free Handicap, of 100 sovs, with a sweepstake of
1 sov each to go to the second horse. A winner of
a handicap after the declaration of the weights to
carry 101 b extra. One mile and a quarter,
Mr. F. Wentworth’s b h Rapid Bay, by Talk of the
Hill—Miss Giraffe, aged, Bst 121 b (W.
Yeomans) 1
W. Kelso’s br h Lord Orville, 6 yrs, 6st 41b
(Kelso) 2
Hon. James White’s bl m Qunild, by Yattendon—4
yrs, 6st 121 b (Walker) ... 3
Master Avenal, His Lordship, Braidwood, Tattoo,
Lorton, Black Eagle, The Dean, Bachelor, The Earl,
Billy Nutts, Zulu, West Country Dick, Barmaid,
Dictator, Prairie Bird, and Kildare also started.
Betting : 2 to 1 Rapid Bay, 5 to 1 Lord Orville, 6 to 10
to 1 any other.
“’A very fair start was effected, Barber taking the lead.
At the turn, Gunild took up the running. Lord Orville
went up the hill in front, and round the turn Rapid Bay
began to forge into place. In the straight Rapid Bay
made his effort, and won comfortably from Lord Orville,
who was three lengths in front of Gunild. Time, 2m.
13s.
The City Handicap, a handicap sweepstake of 5 sovs
each, 1 forfeit, with 150 sovs added. For three-
year-olds and upwards. Second horse 20 sovs from
the prize. A winner of a handicap after the de-
claration of the weights to carry 101 b extra. One
and a half mile.
Mr. S. W. Knight’s b h Tattoo, by The Drummer—
Blossom, aged, 6st 71b (Cracknell) I
I Hon. Jas. White’s br h The Pontiff, by The Drummer
—The Nun, 4 yrs, Bst (Gordon) 2
Mr. J. Morrisson’s br h Wellington, by Panic —Frou
Frou, syrs, 9st 51b (W. Yeomans) 3
Barber, Richmond, Stratheaxn, Gipsy Cooper, Canary,
Braidwood, Major. Saunterer, The Dean, Black Eagle,
I and Lord Orville also started.
1 Betting: 2to 1 Gipsy Cooper or Canary, 3 to 1
Strathearn, 5 to 1 Richmond, Pontiff, or Wellington,
10 to 1 any other.
A splendid start, Canary getting the best of it.
Tattoo took up second place at the rocks, and along the
back of the course Gipsy Cooper came up third. The
same order was kept till in the straight, when Canary
fell back beaten, and Tattoo came home an easy winner
abent five lengths ahead of the ruck headed by The
Pontiff. Time, 2m. 41s.


Tailors, Drape:
COUNTRY ORDERS prom
carefully executed. Send P
a choice selection of Fancy and G
the Departments—New Dress M
laines. Serges, Cashmeres, Satin I
FIRST CLASS DEES
AUTUMN AND WINTEI
Our own Manufactured G 1
2 Buttons 4 Buttons
2s 9d 3s 9d
Posted 3s. 4s
Cut paper patterns, all gar
JOHN B. YOU]
6 GEORGE ST
(Just below Liver]
MERICAN CUT PAI
MADAME DEM
Perfect Fittii
Newest styles every mail from
Full directions and illustrations '
MADAME DEMOEEST’S pub
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What 1
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gr
MISS LOUISA
87 King Street, Sydney (two d(
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-s
The mis s e
(Late with Messrs. Davie
52, MARGARET S'
WYNYAED SQ
Three Doors from Mr. J. S
Have much pleasure in announcii
to open Mantles Millinery, and s
Ladies for the Autumn Season,
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, W
E
LISE’S PAPER Cl
All communications to hi
“ ELISE.”
No. 12 PARK STREET
Six doors from Geori
Orders for Patterns cannot be
paid. Our cut-out Paper Pattei
style, cut, and finish, being model!
Fashions, and are always sent
receipt of stamps or money order.
66 TT IS A WELL-KNG\
JL for Household or Fam
Hordern’s” Old-Established anc
porium on the Brickfield H > h
for Value, Variety, or Extent of '
NEW. and BEAUTIFUL GO
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES
G
DO. L. LI
HIGH-CLASS CASH
3 BRIDGE STREET
CUTTER TO E. M:
Begs to inform his friends and t
opened the above premises
gentlemen who wish to have
manship, &c., at a low price f<
Gentlemen requiring this with V
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM C
N °t
ICE TO T H
SUITS TO OEDE
R. C. HA(
FASHION AB
TAILORING ESTA]
127 KING STR
Where you can be fitted with the
cheapest Outfit in th
Note the Extraordinary Cheap 1
Tailors, Draper
rji H O
M P S O N AN
DENISON HOU
358, 360, 362, George
OPENING NEW G
for
WINTER SEAS
EVERY DAY DURING T]
FIRST GENERAL I
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESS
FOE THE WINTER 1
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE CAME
DOVER HOMESPUN INDR
ELASTIC BIEGE ANGO
KASGHER CASHMERE JER-j]
STOCKINGETTE VALP
AND A LARGE ASSORTME
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—
cases of very
ERY, someth'
handsome, dirt
houses in Lond
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR
SILK, Rich Vi
to 24 inch wide
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES,
SILKS, in a vai
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 3
6s lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and str
for wear, and f
BLACK VELVI
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard sta;
BLACK SATINI
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d,
are light and si
under nsual
SILK VELVE
every shade of
, and Brocaded
Floral Designs
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPAR 1 :
OPENED a
MENT of al
LACES in eve
imitation, Emb
Ruffling, Modi
Cuffs, Collate
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
w
FROM DRESS
be no decepti
washed. Lad
Sheetings gooc
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-i:
inch, Is 6d to 2
to 3s. Americi
& Horrocks’ C.
QUILTS, fron
prices. Coloi
QUILTS, 2\ lo
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 an
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our stndj
this class of
character. By
year after yea)
of FIRST-CLA
are now showi
ment of of DA
NAPKINS, bof
Damask. Thei
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We i
MASK CLOT]
425; 5-BNAPK
3-4 NAPKINS
29a 6d; DA
round or squar
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to !
SHEETINGS.
PILLOW LIN
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, froi
cording to sizi
ISH TOWELS
Tailors, Drapen
YOU ABE
RESPECTFULLY INV
TO VISIT
EOBDEBJS
IN
PITT STREET
161
KING STEEE
(Near Tramway
MADAME WEIG
PAPER PATTERNS of DRESSE
cut in different sizes for Ladic
nished with illustrations and d
np. Sold at prices ranging: fro
styles monthly in WEIGEL
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by ]
annum, post free Catalogu
Patterns sent to any part of th(
of price and measure. Postage
ADDRESS:
MADAME WEI
161 KING STREI
SYDNEY.
Business Annonnc
S
Llegal.J
HORTEE, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEREAGH STEEE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary!
LEGAL.-Mr. T. M. f
SOLICITOR, has coi
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite ■
News Office.
w.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAD
225 BOURKE STREET, WOO
M
EYE R S
&
LICENSED SURVEYORS, j
AND
GENERAL DRAUGH
M‘Coy’B Chambers, No. 16
Are prepared to execute all orders
terms. Also, CALIGRAPHIC ar
WORK of style unparalleled. Spe
JJHEAPEST AND
BES
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORAL
. HAY STREET, HAY 33
TEA, Is per lb
Other articles equally che
Got ds packed and delivered free
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LI
WITH.
HOM A S W
ENGINEER & IRONE
JJ EP O T IN
NO. 1 DARLING S
HARBOUR STR]
ILLUSTRATED PRICE I
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, wi
tacking (or basting), without the
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells; wi
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, a
embroider curtains or antimaeasst
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our office
trades can be supplied. They are i
in running, strong, handsome, :
machine may be had on trial, EN
CHARGE. Instruction at YOl
free. Every WERTHEIM Mach:
KEPT IN REPAIR and worki
YEARS from the date of purohas
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMEN 1
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OF CHAR(
samples by post. Country ag
liberal terms. BEALE and C
street, near Market-street, and
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcasi
Bathurst. No matter in what pa
live, we will supply you wit
MACHINE upon TIME PAYJ
INTEREST.
HE A U S T
“HOME”SHUT
AMERICAN LOCKS
SEWING MAC


Hotels, Sec.
O
LD EXHIBITIO
PRINCE ALFRED
(Opposite Gate.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION
Plunge and Shower Baths
WINES and SPIRITS, superior
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HIL
M
A. G
PARK HOTEL, PAR
(immediately opposite the
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines
best brands, at the lowest poss
parties therefore would do well r
selves by bringing the same.
c.
W. E O B
MARKET STRE
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES,
BEERS.
JUNIPER TE
This celebrated Dutch Gin ma;
all storekeepers and respectable"
trial will prove it superior to the c
tured Gin now so largely consumed
£3
Si
$
9
&
i
Wholesale Agent—C HA
2 BRIDGE STREET.
Hotels, &c
FOSTER’S Bug;
The BEST ALE and STOTJ
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEP
MERCHANT*
YIRGOE, SON^AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
iIOB-Wf;
HLANDWHIS
ft
It is of the utmost importance
bottle should be carefully compai
are being imported into New S
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beve
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISK’
other brands, when they will fli
least 10 per cent, in favour of ]
WHISKY.
VTRGOEj SON,~AND
AGENTS.
J. C - W A
(Late COLLINS & ]
SEATED WATERS, GI
and
CORDIAL MANUFA
438 HARRIS STREI
OSS AND
(Late Collins and I
MEAT E D W
AND
COEDIAL MANUFAI
438 HAEEIS STEEE
R
First Prize, International Ex
for Soda Wate
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Ler
Ginger Beer, i
CORDIALS OP ALI
The Trade supplied with promp
Hotels, &c
The compagno
CAPE AND CATERING C<
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s REST
IS NOW OPE
The Company have secured tl
Marriette, late chef de cuisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinne
Three hours notice required for pi
The spacious rooms of Messr
been greatly enlarged, re-decor
Every attention will be paid tc
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30,1880.
OMPA6NONI PALACE
serve up in their be
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLL
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTE tS NATUI
Patrons of our Theatres and Co
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposii
r£IO ENGLISH
And Visitors from the neighl
and the Public gen
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW S
THE IMPERIAL
MOUNT YICTOI
Is in the midst of all that is worth i
Mountains. First-class aecom
and gentlemen. Comfort, clei
combined with moderate charg
J. G. COUSI
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE ER
78 & 80
Opposite Theatre
de.
or
EB
S.MU
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOI
ACCOMMODATION POE T
S. MUHLEBACH & G
proprietor;
Hotels, &c
R
OBEET BUTC
(Late William L(
WINE AND SPIRIT MI
531 GEORGE STR
OPPOSITE TOWN HAL!
Country Orders Receive Pb(
I
ICE. ICE
E
FROM FILTERED
Supplied in ant Quj
AND AT REDUCED
Direct from th
CITY ICE COMPAN
WATERLOO
T
Office — 3 WYNYARI
HE GENUINE EAU
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by th
Manufactured 1
JOHANN MARIA
JULICHS-PLATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (G
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Roj
By appointment to His Roys
Prince of Wale
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; Nei
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (A
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili).
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (I
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioi
spurious IMITATIONS, frauduh
Colognes; and notice is hereby g
Marks being duly registered, all i
ceeded against to the full extent o
JOHANN MAR
J
WHOLESALE AG
MESSRS. RABONE, F.
3 WTNTARD SQI
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING Ml
THE REALLY GOOD
SENTED TO


“THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Jennie Lee is coming
Boema successful at Adelaide.
Wybert Reeve is on gold at Sandhurst.'
New Zealand is afflicted with phrenolo ists.
M‘Lean’s troubadours are doing well in Gipps-
laud. *
New Zealanders think Paladini is losing his
voice.
Mr. J. J. Welsh is in Sydney resting on his
laurels.
Hiscocks is advertising in America for stars for
America.
Miss Alice Deorwyn had a good benefit recently
at Ballarat.
St. Leon’s Circus did a splendid business at
Condobolm.
Mr. Fred tyster is musical critic of the S. F.
t*ews Letter.
Kelly’s Company are still doingwell at the Town
Hall, Brisbane.
The Lynch Family of Bellringers are drawing
largely southward.
Dewhnrst, the English tragedian, contemplates
a visit to Australia.
Sara Bernhardt visits Ireland at the close of her
second American tour.
Martin Simonsen gave a picnic to his opera
company in Auckland.
Charles B. Hicks, at last accounts, was in New
York, lying on his oars.
“Martha” is not a success in the hands of
Simonsen’s Opera Company.
Miss Kate Foley has, we hear gone to San
Francisco under engagement
Theo. Hamilton and J. J. Wallace have been
taking a holiday in Auckland.
Madame Janauschek was to re-appear on the
stage on March 7, in New York.
Grafton theatre open. A nice light entertain-
ment provided. " William Tell! "
The Musettes are playing with D’Orsay Ogden
and Miss Beatrice at Rockhampton.
The Carden Dramatic Company, under De Lias
opened to a big house at Dunedin, N.Z.
Barry Sullivan writes to a friend that he hopes
soon to make an antipodean engagement.
Big Ben Brown, Newlands. and Charley Wallace
are playing round the London Music Halls.
Vemon Reid has scored a big success as Ralph
Eackstraw in South’s “ Pinafore ’’ Company.
Tambour Major was played in Melbourne 101
nights and then, while yet popular, withdrawn.
Pomeroy a great in Melbourne as Rosalind.
Le ike supporting her; only mediocre as Jaques.
Harry Leston is away in the country with Mr.
Holloway's company. Everywhere, a broad grin.
At Dunedin, Lingard and Patterson’s panorama
of New Zealand was drawing well, at last advices.
Musgrove celebrated the hundredth night of
Tambour Major at Melbourne, by giving a grand supper.
The Simonsen Company gave a sacred concert
on Good Friday, at Auckland. There was a poor house.
Ketten opened at Rockhampton, Q., on Tuesday
last for two nights. “ Zen ze gaarantee vas all r-right.”
Louise Pomeroy is announced for “Cymbeline ”
at one of the London theatres in 1882. We thought it
was '92.
The Moore and Burgess Minstrels are off to
New York to “ tackle the Haverlys on their own
ground." ,
La Feuillade leads the orchestra at the Fakir of
Oolu's entertainment, at St. George's Hall, Melbourne
Good business.
The Soldene troupe, with Rose Stella as prima
donna, were at San Francisco, drawing crowded houses
at last accounts.
Sam Poole, Thompson, Boothe, and the Misses
March are supporting « Capt. Gingah” at the Theatre
Eoyal, Brisbane.
Mignon, to be produced by the Montague-
Tumer company at the Gaiety shortly, is expected to bo
a Pmaforian draw.
We leam, through Mr. Hayman, that the Only
Leon’s tour through the Southern districts has been “ a
whirlwind of success."
The fine new musical hall at Worcester, Eng.,
was lately destroyed by fire. The American minstrels
lost ail their “ props."
The Melbourne people wouldn’t swallow the
Leake. As they wouldn’t support him he is now sup-
porting Miss Pomeroy.
Thompson’s Confederate diorama, when last
heard of, was at Napier, N.Z. Bacheldor is one of the
leading spirits of the show.
Bandmann is very “popular” in N.Z. towns. The
small boys *• cut him off" at street comers as though he
were a funeral. Such is fame !
Mr. Howard Vernon’s Major-General improves
with acquaintance. It isia different reading to Mr.
South’s, but is quite as acceptable.
J. L. Hall was enthusiastically received at
Brisbane on the opening night of the new theatre. The
theatre was crammed to the doors.
Herr Bandmann had a benefit in Christchurch,
when he made the usual flowery speech. "The Corsican
Brothers ’’ constituted the programme.
At the Bella Union Theatre, Cal., the “can
can" is danced to the play " Paris by Night," but the
dance is called the High-kicking Virginia Reel.
Maggie Knight and Jim O’Brien have been
engaged by De Lias for the Carden Company. They
appear at Dunedin first in “ A Celebrated Case."
At Manchester,Hiscocks and Hayman’s Mammoth
Minstrels were to stay a week longer than they in-,
tended, owing to the support being so gratifying.
In America they are playing a burlesque on the
" Pirates of Penzance,” under the title of " The Pie
Eats of Penn Yang." Tony Pastor is responsible.
Pollard’s Juvenile “ Pinafore ” Company did
immense business in Dunedin, N.Z. The troupe is now
playing in Christchurch, meeting with the same success.
Miss Carrie Godfrey makes everywhere in New
Zealand a decided hit in grand opera. In “II Trovatore"
she was a positive success wherever the piece was pro-
duced.
Lotti Wilmot is making herself notorious in
Auckland. She was expelled from the Supreme Court
there during the hearing of a rape case, by order of the
Judge.
The three principal pantomime houses, Drury
Lane, Covent Garden and Astley’s (Sanger’s) took
nearly £4OOO each during Christmas, week, giving two
shows daily. B
Salvini is greatly fatigued after playing Othello;
but his lago eats five meals next day. They are sent to
his room. It is not on record how many he eats when
Le is not fatigued!
Says the San Franjisoo News Letter —“ An
English actor, named ‘ Craig,’ accompanies the Lingards
rom Australia. If one may judge from his * get up.’ he
inst be some pumpkins.’ *’ *
Walton, whom one of the Melbourne papers
ohteiy terms “one of the greatest ‘frosts ’ that ever
p pea red on the Melbourne stage," got a show lately at
be Royal, pending tne arrival of La Belle Pomeroy.
JT 48 the piece. It didn’t, however, Gow
appear to have been
Dampier’s father died on 7th Jan. last, aged 61,
and was interred at the City of London Cemetery,
Ilford. His last moments were passed in the presence
of his son and Mrs, Dampier.
It is stated that the Opera House, at the corner
of York and King-streets, is to he pulled down, and that
on its foundations, a theatre is to be erected which will be
the finest in this hemisphere.
Herr Bandmann lately produced a translation
of Schiller’s “ Robbers "in Auckland. The failure was
complete. Miss Beaudet lately benefited there in
“ Blighted Lives." Good house.
Walter Reynolds’ “ Christmas Mystery,” pro-
duced at the Royal, Wellington, N.Z., was (according
to the Times) one of the most legitimate dramatic suc-
cesses seen for a long time in that city.
At a ball given in Paris recently, an unusual
feature in the programme was introduced. It was that
of a band of singers, accompanying with their voices a
waltz performed in the course of the evening.
The tenor in the Pirates who stands first on the
prompt side has a good voice, and sings his part well;
but if he made up, and did some business, instead of
scanning the boxes and stalls, he would act it also.
New act drop by Hennings at the Melbourne
Royal. Subject: Thespians leaving desolated Greece.
What’s the key to this, we wonder ? Was the desola-
tion confined to the confiding landlords of the period ?
The Auckland Stab says that Paladini’s
singing, in “ II Trovatore ” was a genuine treat, and it
adds that many old musical critics declared that the
opera was never before rendered so well in Auckland.
Dampier has purchased the copyright of about
eight successful London dramas, and has notified
managers and others in Australia and New Zealand that
he will hold them responsible if they infringe his
rights.
The Dunedin School Committee declined to
countenance the attendance of school children at the
“Pinafore” given by Pollard’s Lilliputian Company,
for which free admission was offered to certificated
teachers.
Mr. J. C. Williamson declines to grant any
rights to produce the “Pirates of Penzance" in New
Zealand, his intention being to go over himself with the
company, imported dresses, and scenery now employed
in the representation at Sydney.
The Irving Amateur Dramatic Club has been
inaugurated for the encouragement of amateur dramatic
talent in Sydney. Messrs. Goodman, Phillips, Hinchy,
and Flynn are the moving spirits, and with such names
the club ought to become prosperous and efficient.
Lotti Wilmot is doing fairly well in Auckland.
She has been giving the people there her lectures on
“Melbourne by Day, and Melbourne by Night,” and
“The Social Problem.” We hear that certain Mel-
boumites catch it pretty hot in the former lecture.
Dampier, at last advices, was playing at the
Surrey Theatre, London, in “ All for Gold," the produc-
tion of Mr. F. R. C. Hopkins, of Perricoota. The
London Press is very loud in its praises of this, the first
Australian drama licensed by the Lord Chamberlain.
Mr. James Carden engaged himself and wife to
Walter Reynolds, but the Cardens* agent, Richmond
Thatcher, had previously arranged with De Lias for the
colonial tour. Reynolds consented to forego his agree-
ment, for which Carden thanks him in the New Zealand
papers.
It is related of Madame Modjeska, on the best
authority, that on the occasion of her farewell perfor-
mance at Warsaw, before leaving for America, she
was called before the curtain sixty-four times, a
manifestation of enthusiasm which occupied altogether
two hours!
Gr. Darrell’s “ Transported for Life” is a howl-
ing frost in ’Frisco. It was literally laughed off the
stage. The Australian author-actor is now musing on
the mutability of human affairs. No talk about that
mighty ber-rain being at work on yet another drama.
Poor George!
Simonsen lately took all the money away from
Wanganui. The shopkeepers growl that circuses or
even revivalists are nothing to it. It’s an ill wind that
blows nobody any good : and the same remark applies
to a Simoon, son. (Comic papers can copy without
acknowledgement.)
Dr. Lynn, the illusionist, drew JJ4O a night at
Charters Towers for a fortnight, winding up his perfor.
mances by the great decapitation trick, which, accord-
ing to all accounts, he performed very cleverly. He is
ably assisted by Miss Amy Blanchard, and has now
gone to Raveuswood.
One day at rehearsal Emily Soldene missed her
husband, whom she wanted to go and hunt up some
props. “ Where can he have got to," cried the lady, to
Stella. “ Mon Dieu, par’aps you ’ave swallow eem,” re-
joined that lady. That night they fought in real
earnest in “Madame Angot.”
Another new theatre in London. Mr. Verity,
the well-known architect, is building one for Mr. Chas.
Wentworth, nearly opposite the Freemason’s Tavern,
in Great Queen-street. It will hold £2OO, and will open
in September. In addition to the theatre, there will be
a concert-hall and a billiard-room.
Loudon Era, of 19th Feb., says that for Hol-
land's benefit, at the Surrey, Dampier (in a scene from
“ Belphegor ") gave a most impressive rendering of the
mountebank hero; and little Bose, the Australian
actress, touched all hearts by her thoroughly natural
and sympathetic rendering Of Henri.
Leavitt is unmercifully advertising Thomas
Maguire of the S. F. Baldwin’s Theatre, in the New
York Mercury. It appears Tom is a temporary broker,
and stuck Leavitt up for his company’s fares. Maguire
said, “ Pay your own fares, and come on; take it, or
leave it.” So Leavitt he left it; but he doesn’t seem to
be leaving Maguire.
A New York paper has the following paragraph:
“ Only think of it! None but they who are dead
could possibly have lived long enough to have seen
William Hoskins when he played in this city at the
Olympic Theatre; and yet here we have him supporting
Miss Louise Pomeroy, in Melbourne, Australia, and
playing Mercutio into the bargain.”
Mr. Dion Boucicanlt’s latest idea is the forma-
tion of a company of youthful artistes for an English
provincial metropolitan dramatic season. Dion, jun
and his fiancee (Miss Sothern) will.Jof conrse.be the
principals, and the members otherwise will be selected
of the nominal age of from fourteen to eighteen. “ Paul
and Virginia ” will be the starting play.
The “ Fakir of Oolu” is once more at the St.
George’s Hall, Melbourne. His novelties consist of
the Fountains (setat, 10 years), the aerial suspension
(quite new, of course), and the singing of Madame La
Fakiresse. There is also some ventriloquism by a Mr.
Lacie, whom we do not know, and as to whose ante-
cedents we are at present too Lacie to enquire.
Search sold his right to the “ Wreck of the
Pinafore” in Australia.l prior to his departure for
America. The lively little operetta is to be produced
at the Opera House. The music goes with slashing
effect, and the story of the piece, besides being amusing,
is interesting on the ground that it explains the impos-
sibilities or improbabilities of its famous predecessor.
Myra Kemble gets “ fits ” in Melbourne for her
Celia. The Weekly Times says her costume betrayed
the fact that the lady “ was a mere peg for milliners to
hang their wares on." This is rather too hot, and
doubtless unjust, and we should go in for giving the
Times a dressing for dressing down the dressing up of
Myra—only we are a little tropical ourselves, some-
times.
Our Auckland correspondent, writing by last
mail, informs ns that the Simonsen Opera Company are
drawing good payable houses at the Theatre Royal
there, and the season is likely to prove a great snocess.
Though not as good as one or two companies that have
visited the town, it is a fair combination for a travel-
ling show. Madame Simonsen, Paladini, and Riccardi
are the shining lights. The latter gentleman met with
an immense reception on the opening night, and is a
great favourite.
Says the S.F. News Letter: ‘‘Mr. and Mrs.
Edwin Booth were recently the gnests at a luncheon
party given by the Baroness Burdett-Coutts, Mr. Henry
Irvmg being present also on the occasion. The
Baroness, notwithstanding her admiration of Mr.
Irving’s acting, is very enthusiastic respecting the
genius of Mr. Booth. The health of Mrs. Booth had
been severely tried by the recent cold weather in
London." This is and the lady being American
born. We suspect it is the critics that have disagreed
with both.
The new Lcftidon comedy, “ Where’s the Cat?”
is an adaptation, by Mr. James Albery, author of “ Two
Roses," of Herr Southau's German farce, “ Sodom and
Gsmorrah," and was played successfully at the Thalia
and Germania theatres last season. The story relates
to an eccentric old lady who dies and leaves a lot of
money hidden in a catskin to be divided among three
young men. The search for the treasure, and its subse-
quent allotment, involves numerous cases of mistaken
identity and exceedingly comical complications. The
success of this comedy everywhere is complete. It is
now running at the London Criterion.
How curiously this anecdote reads now:—There
is a lady in Liverpool who lets lodgings to actors. She
has a letter in her possession for which a friend of mine
who is an autograph-collector recently and unsuccess-
fully offered a fiver. It is dated many years ago, and runs
somehow thusly“ Dear Mrs. , I know I owe you
twelve shillings, and I would gladly send it, but, upon
my word, I haven’t got it.—Yours faithfully, ."
The twelve bob has long since been paid, for to-day the
actor is famous. The landlady, however, clings to the
letter, and treasures it as a memento of the early
struggles of a great man. Who is he ? Why Henry
Irving, of course!
“ Our Boys,” like Napoleon, have crossed the
Alps. In other words, Henry Byron’s famous comedy .
has been produced in Italy, and is a great success. The
part of the old Butterman done into “ choice Italian"
is but a shadow of its original self. The haughty
aristocrat, too, in foreign hands, has become less
dignified, less cold, less “a character." As for “the
girls," their sweet English simplicity is beyond the
comprehension of Italian artistes, who, like their Gallic
compeers, are nothing if not lively in action and light
of tongue. It says much, then, for H. J. Byron that,
in spite of difficulties of translation and translocation,
he has gained for himself a distinguished place on the
Italian boards.
Matilde Mallinger, the great Wagnerian prima
donna of Germany, is only thirty-two years old. She
was bom in Styria, where her father was a professor of
music, and her first public appearance was at the age
of 7, when she treated her playfellows with a scene
from “ Norma," performed in the open air on a January
day. Kneeling in the snow, she was in the midst of
“Casta Diva” when her irate mother opened the
window and called the naughty singer into the house.
Mallinger has a round face, capable of much dramatical
expression,' and a quantity of soft, dark hair. She is
married to the Baron'Yon Schimmelfeuning, and is a
quiet, domestic woman. Her leisure she employs in
trying to get the hang of her husband’s hezarre cog-
nomen.
“ The Upper Crust,” now playing at the London
Folly, with J. L, Toole in the part of Bamaby Double-
chick, (a reliable soap-maker), is said to be a copy of
Arthur Sketchley’s play, “ Up in the World," which
ran for nearly a year at the London Strand. Despite
Arthur’s little eccentricities, he is a capital playwright,
but is said to be too lazy to follow up the profession of
a dramatic author. “The Upper Crust” is described
as a properly-watered farce, and tells of Doublechick
who, after making a fortune in the soap business, is de-
sirous of getting into upper-erust society for the sake of
his daughter Norah. An impecunious Lord Hesketh
borrows money from him, promising to reciprocate the
favour by introducing the ex-soapmaker into the leading
families of the country. In short, it is the old, old story.
The Balmain Minstrels went up to Camden on
Easter Monday to have a game of cricket and to give a
performance at the School of Arts in the evening. But
the copper-in-charge, some eminent descendant of
Dogberry, refused to sanction the entertainment,
so the bell-man was sent round to howl that ad-
mission would be gratis. The local Fly-Trap says
that “ the hall was crowded, and after the first part
the secretary came forward, and having fully explained
matters said a collection would be made in aid of the
School of Arts. When the hat went round, to the ever,
lasting glory and honour of Camden he it said, the magnifi-
cent sum of £2 was collecteo, whereas, had admission
been charged there was some £l5 in the house." From
this we are inclined to think that the Camden folk are
the kind of people, who, after paying sixpence to hear
Patti in La Sonambula, would expect their ’bus fare
home, and a lump of suet towards their Sunday
dinners.
The rumour, then, is true after all. A late
London paper says“ The coming appearance of Mrs.
Langtry on the stage, and her settled intention to woo
fortune as an actress, has been denied. But it is, never-
theless, a settled matter. The lady is now studying a
part played by Madame Chaumont in one of her recent
visits to London. When “ Home "is produced at the
Haymarket, Mrs. Langtry's debut will be made in the
Robertson comedy, and in an adaptation of the come-
dietta in which Madame Chaumont’s vivacious and yet
delicate style was seen at the best." In being a follower
of Madame Chaumont, Mrs. Langtry has certainly fixed
her choice upon a branch of the theatrical profession
which, to say the least, is “advanced." Madame
Chaument has rendered herself notorious by her won-
drous rendering of “suggestive" chansonnettes, and
by her droll acting in vaudevilles which the censorship
in England or Australia would never permit to be
performed.
James South’s company has completely]*‘knocked”
the Bathurst people, and his enterprise has received the
return it deserved. Thetroupe is a very expensive one,
and had not fortune smiled upon James’s efforts, he
would have dropped a very large sum of money. As it
is, everything is 0.K., and the genial Major-General is
skipping about Bathurst with a smile on his face and
plenty of coin in his pocket. All the local papers speak
of the company with the highest praise. The Free
Press— perhaps the most respectable, and, with the
exception of the Ghastly Times, the dullest paper up
there—says of the first night: “ There was not a single
hitch in the whole performance, and we question
whether any piece has been better played in Bathurst
than was ‘ Pinafore' on Monday night.” Then the
same paper observes that “ the chorus was not so strong
as it might be." We admire this, vastly. If a company
went to Bathurst with a company like South’s, and an
opera chorus to boot, the manager would never back
any farther than Liverpool. There .is a poor-house
there.
Emily Soldene and her company are now per-
forming in “ Olivette" at Baldwin’s Theatre, New
York. The company, since starting, has experienced
many vicissitudesthe husband of the high-kicker,
Jarvis, one of the entrepreneurs, having been left behind
in Meriden,* U.S., a broker.'* Writing to the Clipper,
Mr. Jarvis says : “ I was arrested by the company on a
claim of back salaries. On arriving at Providence, I ,
immediately called on a sheriif who had arrested me
previously to ask if there were any more claims against
me. He informed me that there were, and that the
safest thing for me to do was to enjoy his society during
my stay in the city. I was also advised that Mr. Froom
(his partner, and Bose Stella’s husband) and Madame
Soldene were negociating with a Mr. Zimmerman to
carry on the company immediately on arriving at a
place on the tour in which they were likely to meet
with greater success than had hitherto attended their
efforts.” Emily and her crowd are en route for Aus-
tralia, and will arrive without the noble Sara—whose
absence, however, we will manage to bear up against.
“ Billee Taylor,” the new nautical opera, is said
to be funnier as regards dialogue than “ Pinafore," and
Mr. Sullivan’s music is stated to be infinitely more
bright and sparkling. How true these rumours are we
shall soon find out, as we understand several entrepreneurs
are in treaty for the sole Australian right with D’Oyley
Carte. The story follows the well-known absurd old
ballad pretty closely—a ditty by-the-way which was
popular in England thirty years ago. In this “ Billee
Taylor," Captain Corcoran has been replaced by Cap-
tain Thundercomb, Dick Deadeye by another bo’snn.
Sir Joseph Porter by Sir Mincing Lane, Hebe by
Arabella, Buttercup by Eliza, and Josephine by Phcebe.
The story runs that Sir Mincing Lane’s daughter is in
love with Billee Taylor, a village gardener, who id in
love with Phoebe, a village maiden, who in turn is
beloved by the Captain of the Thundercomb and Chris-
topher Crabb, the local schoolmaster. The Captain,
Crabb, and Arabella conspire to carry Billee Taylor off
to sea, and he is soon aboard the Thundercomb, and
becomes a lieutenant. In the meantime Phcebe has
joined the ship as a sailor, and the Captain compels
Billee to marry her, and then, despite her sex, invests
her with Billee’s commission and sword, and appoints
her his first lieutenant, which brings this amusing
trifle to a pleasant conclusion.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It has been our unfortunate experience, in obev.
mg the call of duty, to have listened to many Minstrek
i rom early youth, before we were exercised by any dutv
besides that of spending as much of our parents’ savim*.
as we could comfortably take, we let our little fcS
stray upon the race-course, and gloried in the antics of
the coloured troupes of three who are wont to ner
ambulate the sward at Epsom. Beal peripatetic trou"
badours, these! Hard-workers and hard-drinkers their
voices always husky with rum, and their tambos beia*
often embellished by apertures caused in personal
combat between Members of the company and those of
the general public who would not respond when the
Zingarian musical instrument we have alluded to wan
passed round for coppers. To us the Moore and Bureest
Minstrels are well-known, Moore himself being, perhans
the best tambo in the world, and the other members of
the company consisting of artistes of acknowledged ex.
cellence. Indeed, there can be no question that the
St. James* Hall crowd are unsurpassed in the world of
minstrelsy, notwithstanding that Haverly’s troupe of
100 performers recently made a great splash at Her
Majesty’s Theatre in London. This, however, if we are
to believe reliable informants, was solely due to that
American prihting to which Mr. Cole also owes a laree
debt of gratitude. ® e
• • *
Lewis’ Mastodon Minstrels, now performing at
the Opera House, take the Haverly company for their
model. They are great in numbers and powerful in
orchestra, and the arrangement of the stage, in the first
part, is quite unique. The picture, when the drop-scene
rises, presents to the audience the whole strength of the
company—with the eight comer-men, four on each side,
in front, the interlocutor and square singers in the
centre a little way back, and the orchestra arranged in
a pyramid with the big drum at the summit—the latter
performer looking like a picture in a frame—in the
centre of a Doric archway. The company were, on the
whole, well got up, although some of the Minstrels
Exhibited a little too much economy in the use of
blacking. It should never be forgotten by a man
in the Christy business that his boots are the cynosure
of every eye. Nice, smart patent-leathers put the
audience into instant good humour, and attract
applause, whereas ill-blacked bluchers have been fre-
quently known to mark the effect of “ Mother, father’s
on the Bust,’’ even when sung by the most silvery,
toned tenor. With the Moore and Burgess crowd
patent boots and straps are de rigueur. The effect of this
is a uniform semi-circular collection of black legs and
gleaming feet, which never fails to “knock” the
audience. At the Opera House, some of the Mastodons
sport the pointed shoes of modem civilisation in a high
state of polish, while others obtrude on the spectator
broad-toed bluchers as guiltless of blacking as Sydney
Punch is of humour. Again, the pants of the
Mastodons vary as much as do the opinions of the
Presbyterian clergy—some being very narrow and very
long, others (like those of Pastor Allen) being very
wide and very short—with a tendency to ruck up and
display an abnormal extent of white sock and shoe
string. The attire of the comer-men, though quaint,
was by no means remarkable for richness—their pants,
which were made of window-curtain, being strangely at
variance with their smart black dress-coats and elabo-
rate dickies. These, however, are small matters, and a
reform in them can be easily effected. Consequently,
we recommend Mr. Lewis and his manager to put their
heads together, and effect without delay the little
improvements we hint at.
♦ * *
Of the performance itself, taken as a whole, we
can speak in terms of the highest praise. That there
were certain blemishes (more especially as we attended
on the first night of a new programme), va saus dire.
But the faults we allude to were chiefly surface faults,
and when we have pointed them out to the management
we have no doubt that they will fade from the
Mastodon’s entertainment like a shilling tea from before
a total abstainer. Imprimis, then, some of the comic
interludes in the first part are too long, notably that
entrusted to Billy Saunders. The wheezes in his
monologue resembled plums in the “ railway station ”
pudding of our early schooldays—they were so very few
and far between. In fact he never scored a point at all
until the very end of the pitch. Some of the riddles,
however, were mere wet-nurses’ “ gags,” which infants
swallow with their foster-mothers’ milk. The songs were
all well-rendered, although the effect of the voices was
somewhat marred by the ultra-conscientiousness of the
brazen instrumentalists. Mr. Wesley scored a decided
success in “ Mother’s with the Angels there,” as did
also E. B. Lewis and J. E. Matlock, in “ Dem Golden
Slippers ’’ and “ Phantom Footsteps ” respectively.
The first part finished with the well-known 1 Wooloo-
mooloo Guards ’’—the fun of which was, however, unduly
prolonged. It is but fair to add, nevertheless, that the
audience (a crowded one) did not seem to tire of the
evolutions of Major Lewis and his army: so perhaps
the performers were only catering with judgmentl for
their Saturday night patrons, and their lengthened
eccentricities undoubtedly pleased the many, however
much they may have bored the few.
• « «
The second part consisted of songs and dances,
a farce, “Our Boys,” a “banjo tournament," a clog
ditto, and an opera—“ The Parrots of Alakasan,” which,
like Bottom’s “ Tedious thief scene of young Pyramus
and his love Thisbe,” was, in the language of
Fhilosthrate—
“ As brief as I have known a play.
But by ten yards, my lord, it is too long.”
One great mistake in the farces was that the “ busi-
ness ’’ of both of them was identical in nearly every
detail—and the dialogues of both were evidently nearly
related. Each piece, notwithstanding these defects,
was received with shrieks of laughter—one young lady
in the dress-circle becoming hysterical, and a maiden in
the stalls fainting clean away from the effects of cachin-
natory exhaustion. On this alarming incident occur-
ring, the parquette became much exercised, but on the
prostrate form being carried out—coffin fashion—by two
stalwart ushers, the pit exhibited great merriment, and
loud were the queries bawled from the throats of col-
larless larrikins—" Come, say, what's the matter with
Hannah?” The man who runs this show evidently
doesn't know how to advertise.
* • «
That the Mastodons are a success is unques-
They have succeeded in filling the Opera
House nightly, when all other efforts have failed. Con-
sequently there is joy in the precincts of Temple Court,
and Mr. M’Laughlin, who occupied his box on the
night of our advent, was one living glow of content-
ment. In conclusion, we may state that Messrs. Wolfe
and Lewis have a novelty on the tapis, in the shape of a
burlesque sketch, entitled “The Pirates of Pen’s
Uncles.” This will be produced, we believe (according
to present arrangements), on Saturday, May 7. We
don’t know who the author is, of course, but we will
almost stake our existence it is not Lewis Scott. Pend-
ing the production of this novelty, people cannot do
better than stroll into the Opera House and shriek at
the Mastodons.
• * *
• • *
During the past week Professor Anderson,
“the Wizard of the North," (by-the-way, how many
Northern Wizards are there?) and his “Pretty
Louise " —who is so clever that, in addition to her other
mystic accomplishments, she could doubtless “touch
the harp gently ” had she a mind' to—have been per-
forming to a large array of city and suburban visitors,
throughout the week. We had a look in one night and
had a good time. The Professor is a very skilful con-
juror. He has, moreover, an excellent appearance, and
any amount of “ pitch ” with which to attract the at»
tention of his audiences, while he is “ doing the hanky-
panky " with the hat and the orange. Indeed, Mr.
Anderson, so great a presdigitateur is he, doubtless,
did he choose, could swallow, with the greatest ease,
a long Damascus blade; then drink a quart of kerosene
and never feel afraid; draw an alligator from the
hat of a bystander; then make a meal off burning pitch
like any salamander; and in a little time, when
aided by his wife, he’ll swallow down, without trouble
the largest carving knife.
* • •
But after the Professor has mystified his audi-
ence the cream of the entertainment has to come—
when the distribution of the gifts takes place. Last
week he gave away a dozen gold watches and a horse.
We met the latter, bearing upon his trappings an an-
nouncement that he would be given away that night.
Had opportunity allowed, we should have had a clutch
for him, since it has been our day dream for a quarter
of a century to become possessors of a horse. And the


Professor’s steed is just such a one as we have yearned
-•*or— meek-eyed and gentle, with a placid temperament
-hat not even the whistle of a tram-motor could ruffle.
* * *
Professor Anderson deserves to succeed, and
does succeed. His is an entertainment that is not only
tronised by the ordinary section of the general public,
but by those holy people who have conscientious objec-
-tionß to a theatre, but none whatever to a quiet little
lottery in which for a shilling or two there is a lively
entertainment, coupled with a chance of winning any-
-thing, from a set of diamond shirt-studs to a side of
Wangaratta bacon. In a word—to parody the verse of
,'we believe) the poet Slum—
' “ If you have a donkey wot wouldn’t go
Take him to Anderson’s bang-up show."
the same remark applies to mules.
♦ • *
“Brother Gunter” (whoever in thunder he is),
a concert at the Protestant Hall on Monday last.
\Ye didn’t attend it, as otherwise we might possibly
have deemed it our duty to be a growler—we mean a
grunter at Gunter.
* ♦ *
Cora has been engaged at the Exhibition build-
ing by John Bennett. We shall go there one day this
week and en-Cora.
* • •
♦ * *
A certain Signor Lardelli has been playing the
piano nightly to thepeople at John Bennett's big show,
Jnd a reliable correspondent informs us that he is far
from being a “ pork-and-bean ” performer; and if not a
Second Ketten, at least he can lay claim to be a very
smally diluted Giorza. His name is against him, any
way. Whatever it is, we feel confident that it cannot
be “ Lardelli.” It’s a pity the Signor is not a lady, for
then we could puzzle it out by trying every possible
anagram. On Lardelli, we at once get “Dellilar,”
which under the circumstances, is comparatively
feeble. Why can’t these good people adhere to their
proper names ? A Smith or a Gubbins would be quite
.a treat after all these De Glorious, Verdis, and Vivians.
« » *
* • •
Talking of Vivians, vivacious Arthur and his
■wife have returned from Ballarat, where the show went
“bung.” They are now looking out for an opening in
Hamlet and Ophelia, respectively. They don’t care
where the engagement is. Heaven would be all the
same to them.
.• * •
• • •
Larry Foley evidently considers that the
interests of the drama are subservient to business.
Meeting a theatrical critic on the racecourse the other
day, that redoubtable champion gravely remarked: “I
don’t mind if you give a one act piece fits, and you can
stamp on a two-acter till its bones are beat into baking-
powder, but let the three-act uns and the four-act boys
.alone. Now there’s some sense in Shakespeare—see
how often the people want to sustain nature in the
course of his pieces. A smart man was William —had
his eye to business, too: shouldn’t wonder if he used
to keep a pub. himself once. All I ask you is, old
bird, let the four-act pieces at the Queen’s down
gently, but the * Pinafore ’ touch have no mercy on."
To winch the critic said: “What will you take,
Larry ?’’ And Larry replied—with his usual sunny
,3mile: “You know."
• • •
• * •
On Easter Monday night, Mr. A. Cleary de-
livered, in Darlinghurst Hall, to a large assemblage of
appreciative chairs, and at least one hundred attentive
forms, a lecture on elocution. That Mr. Cleary was
wise in selecting Easter Monday for the evening on
which to entertain the public, of course every one must
admit, since he had only Cole’s Circus, the “ Pirates of
Penzance," the Montagne-Turner Company, Professor
Anderson, the Mastodon Minstrels, “Formosa,” and
276,000 public balls and private parties against him. Mr.
Cleary gave selections from various—to quote The
O’Donovan—of the most gifted of Ireland’s bards, and
he was artistically accompanied by the echo. The
lecture was in aid of the hall fund, but in what degree
that fund has benefited by Mr. Cleary’s exertions we
are unable to state. Something between a hundred
pounds and three half-crowns, anyway. We wish Mr.
Cleary better luck next time—and the hall.
« • «
« • *
The Montague-Tumer Company, as we pre-
dicted, has turned up trumps for the management,
and so great has been the success of the “ Bohemian
Girl" that it was not withdrawn last Friday, as ad-
vertised, but ran up to Wednesday, when “ Mari tana ”
was billed. This state of affairs is, of course,
highly satisfactory, being a proof that the play-going
section of the Sydney public is sufficiently intelligent
to appreciate what is most undoubtedly a most finished
and artistic performance. But if in the “ Bohemian
■Girl,” which is, after all, a comparatively mild pro-
duction so far, at any rate, as its libretto is concerned.
Miss Montague and Mr. Turner Lave scored such a
•success, it is not difficult to conjecture the triumph in
store for them when other operas are produced which
give them more scope for the display of their undoubted
dramatic capabilities. There is one significant fact in
connection with the Montague-Tumer success, and
that.is, that when a show is really good, it avails but
little to fling at it the heaviest pattens, or to prod it
'with the most formidable of umbrellas. We’ll never
•forget Mr. Turner’s “ Fair Land of Poland.”
• * «
• * •
A notice of “ The Flying Scud ” at the Queen’s
•will be found in " Late Theatrical."
UN SANS CULOTTE.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts has presented her
husband with a magnificent stud of thoroughbred hun-
ters. Her affection for him is a stable one.
There is said to be a very genuine love affair
between the eldest daughter of the Prince of Wales
and the gallant young Crown Prince of Sweden. We
ffer our congratulations to Gustav.
A girl in the United States, with an eye to the
main chance, recently gave the following toast: —“ The
young men of America; their arms our support; our
arms their reward! Fall in, men! Fall in, men ! "
“ Atlas,” in the London World, says that it
would save a deal of trouble and endless mistakes if
men had their names emblazoned on their shirt-fronts,
and ladies theirs embroidered on the bosoms of their
dresses.
In Russian ball-rooms during very cold weather,
the sudden entrance of the cold, outside air into the
hot, moisture-laden atmosphere, often produces a
Perceptible fall of snow in the room. It snow joke
tripping “ the light fantastic " in such regions !
A recent Penrith marriage was much enlivened
by the rather erratic proceedings of the bridegroom.
In the middle of the ceremony he kissed the bride,
kissed her before he got the benediction, and then took
to kissing the bridesmaids. It is unnecessary for our
air informant to tell us that the bridesmaids were quite
happy.
Mrs. Garibaldi is “a woman of a thousand,”
and also a striking instance of the truth of the old
adage, “the gray mare’s the better horse." She is a
&j,pital nurse, and very kind and devoted to Garibaldi,
ohe is likewise very strong; can lift the old General in
her arms, attends to him patiently, dresses and
undresses him, and never gives him a cross word. She
Puts him to sleep as if he were a baby, and then locks
mm up in his bedroom if she is obliged to go away—
lust so that he may not be disturbed, you know.
, thou as chaste as ice and pure as snow, thou
“halt not escape calumny. The Empress of Austria
hot been exempt from the common lot; but those
who know her best doubt whether she has ever given
her heart to any hnman being. She is kind to many,
h an imperial protecting way, but seems to have no
for solitude. She has not even made friends
of >T vi °hildren. A lonely ride is the chief pleasure
eve er J“ e ’ ®ke has a perfect horror of noise. Where-
•er may chance to bo, thick carpets are laid down
so„ e l er 7 direction, that she may not hear the mere
f own footsteps. But once in the saddle,
for m of nervousness seems to be flung to the
PEPPER AND SALT.
“ * Kiss-in-the-ring ’ is now played in Paris
round a table with cards, the fortunate male holder of
the ace of hearts being entitled to bestow a kiss on his
opposite partner across the table, which the lady
gracefully bends over to receive.” This par. having
caught the eye of a certain wealthy resident of this
city, he invited a party of friends, by letter, to play it.
One tall gentleman, who had been long a friend of the
family—but whose invitation generally emanated from
the hostess—arrived amongst the guests, and took his
seat immediately opposite that lady—somewhat, be it
said, to the host’s discomfit ure. The game began, and
the host dealt. Three cards each, and the hands were
turned down. Then 10, and behold, the coveted ace
was in the possession of the friend of the family. He
rose, bent across, and inflicted a sounding smack upon
the lips of his hostess. The hnsband smiled feebly,
but said nothing: meanwhile the cards were once
more dealt. Then again the ace fell to the lot of the
lucky tall man. For the second time he bent over, and
once more a detonating smack was the result. On this
the host arose. “ Ladies and gentlemen,” said he,
with the beads [of perspiration breaking on his fore-
head, “ this game’s too exciting for me. Let’s change
to vang tune at ten pound a dozen if you like. Another
round of this kiss-in-the-ring caper would make a
murderer of me. Come! I’ll take the bank—and the
first ‘ natural ’ doesn’t count." On this the cards were
thrown up amidst the “hear, hears” of the married
men, and the dissent of thp single ones. And in the
middle of the hubbub, the tall friend of the family skil-
fully took four aces from his coat-sleeve and restored
them deftly to his coat-pocket. This game should
become popular.
* * *
The following telegrams and their replies, re
Lord Beaconsfield, will be read with interest:—
“ Sydney, April 18.—Grand Central Lodge of Touch-
Nothings sympathize with Majesty re Beaconsfield.
(Signed) John Davies, D. M’Beath.” [Reply.]
Who are you ?” [Second message from Sydney.]
“ I’m John Davies, C.M.G., and Mr. M’Beath is our
architect." [Reply.] “ Oh! What is M’Beath likely
to get ? "
“ London, April 19.—T0 John Davies, C.M.G., XXX.,
J.P., D.F., &c. Tell Roseby get pattern of tombstone
for Beaconsfield. Mustn’t be cracked. (Signed) Glad-
stone." [Reply from Sydney.] “But what am Ito
get out of it ? Poor Dizzy. This is a great day for
Europe. J.D.” [Reply from London.] ,‘Yes, but the
day for your rope Hasn’t arrived. G."
“ Sydney, April 18. —The gaynius of Lord Bakinsfleld
scintillates the canopy of the Southern heavens, and
his lamentable kick-the-bucket robs your gracious and
thrice or quadrupled-illumined Majesty of the brightest
jim that ever sat in the political firmament. Dan
O’Connor." [Reply from London.] “ Now, how’s
biz in William-street, Dan ? Attend the Chin-aise
meeting.”
We see that Mr. Justice Windeyer still keeps on
his old chambers in Elizabeth-street. Are we to take
this as a significant fact: or merely to regard it in the
light of his wishing to do the landlord a turn?
Generosity, as we know, was always a failing of his
(temporary) Honor’s : but then, of course, we all have
our little weaknesses. The point is—on consideration,
however, we will stop here. Were it not that we are on
the best of terms with Sir James, we should not have
risked this par. at all. However —“ Spare us, we beseech
thee, good—judges."
* * *
According to rumour, there has been, of late,
a conference held in Balmain. We are informed that,
the other evening, the publicans of that picturesque
suburb held a meeting to consider the following ques-
tion :—“ Is it possible to put more Botany water and
tin-tag tobacco in the rum now retailed by us to the
Balmain public ? ” After some discussion, in the course
of which several bonifaces shed tears, the question was,
with extreme reluctance, resolved in the negative.
The meeting then broke up,—most of the members,
however —now mark this significant circumstance ! —
taking the ferry to Sydney in order to get a drink.
• ♦ •
The Adelaide Bulletin (so called) has changed
its proprietary. It says: “ This week christens the
firstborn of the new proprietary. Mr. J. J. Eoohe, who
since the publication of the Bulletin has been an equal
partner with Mr. Carroll, has bought out the latter
gentleman, whom he will succeed in the proprietorial
(sic) management of the paper. The business will be
carried on under the title of J. J. Eoche and Co., and
Mr. J. J. Eoche will be the working partner in the
concern.” We merely chronicle this fact, which is of
but little interest to the Sydney public, for the purpose
of entreating the new proprietary (one of which, we
believe, is Mr. Allison) to at any rate infuse common
sense into the columns of his journal, which hitherto
has been a byword and a laughing-stock wherever it has
been seen. Mr. Carroll had evidently adopted the plan
of inserting the contribution of every banker’s clerk or
draper's boy who chose to scrawl a par. under their mas-
ters’ bill-heads. Skeffington’s grammar, too, and spelling,
were almost as eccentric as those of his contributors.
Altogether, Skeff. is well rid of, and his absence gives
the present crowd a chance to improve the rag. By nb
combination of adverse circumstances could they make
it any worse. That ought to console them.
• • •
The Penny Morning Lime juice, of Monday
last, published the following telegram from Victoria: —
“ The number of visitors at the Exhibition on Saturday
was £11,000.” This is a little error, the origin of which
we can well understand. And accordingly we heartily
sympathise with our small contemporary. We know
how much the minds of people are running on money
at the present time. Coin is very plentiful just now.
In fact, the banks don't know what to do with it.
• * •
The Licensing Act— and we write this from
no total abstainer's point of view—works badly in many
ways. Objections are made by the police against some
houses on trivial grounds, whilst others are permitted
to flourish unchallenged. By the Act, a pub-
lican is supposed to have “ accommodation fpr man and
beast;” but there are numberless houses m the city
which have no means of accommodating—and which
positively refuse to take in—lodgers; while at how
many hotels, we ask, would a traveller find proper
stabling conveniences ? The fact is the whole licensing
system is in want of a complete reform. AS affairs at
present stand, everything connected with the liquor
traffic is in a deplorable condition of chaos. Many of
the licensing magistrates have been proved to be cor-
rupt, while it is notorious that a certain section of the
police is periodically “ got at.” Under these circum-
stances, the sooner something is done the better. The
old hospitable inn-days have long gone by; but though
most of our bonifaces cannot accommodate the beast in
one sense, they are quite willing to do so in another.
• * *
There is something more than ordinarily rotten
in the state of Denmark. We learn by telegram from
a neighbouring colony that a certain well-known
minister has been stripped of his gown—charges
against him of the grossest immorality having been
proved to the satisfaction of the Council of
his church. To this person we inscribe the follow,
ing verses:—
And so one pseudo-reverend has been found out—one
mandrake plucked up and cast out of the garden of
religion. We wonder—wearily wonder—how many more
that garden contains.
» • *
Does the oldest male inhabitant ’ remember a
certain infernal machine which was once invented to
cover a female deformity, and was known to the fashion-
able world as a crinoline ? If any such there be let
him shake his very eyebrows off, for these diabolical
weapons are to be once more used amongst us. We
met a real live specimen on Saturday last, and the
wearer was making frantic Efforts to swarm through
the narrow iron posts on Hyde Park with about as much
success as if she had been trying to steal the “ breeks
from off a Highlander.” We shot her dead at once,
and left her then for the birds of the air and an efficient
police to look to. The proper way to estimate the real
merits of a crinoline is to get jammed into a church
pew with the proprietor of a full-grown one, and sud-
denly flop down on your knees on the steel, razor-like
hoops thereof. Old Elder Bulby once got into this
predicament, and turning to the lady he with tears of
emotion exclaimed, “ Madam, I’m kneeling on your
hen-coop." “Oh, don't mind that in the least," said
the fair owner; “ you won’t hurt it.” “ No, of course
not," returned the afflicted elder, “but you see the
jam'd thing hurts me." If the female world hunger
for a change from the present snake-skin dresses we
would remind them that their first maternal parent
wore a costume which would be quite as cheap out here
as convenient—and very attractive.
The “ Burwood Literary and Debating Society ”
scouted, the other evening, a proposal for the admission
of a Freethought candidate. Arguing from the stand-
point of the persons who refused him admission, this
is about the most unwise step that could have been
taken. The members declared themselves afraid to
meet an opponent. The candidate was asked whether
he could consistently seek admission. He contended
he could; he had carefully looked through the rules,
and saw nothing whatever to debar him. Had it been
named the Congregational Literary and Debating
Society, he could not have seen his way to joining. The
Bev. Mr. Howden hereupon declared straight out against
the Freethinker, who didn’t believe in God, devil, or hell,
&c. The motion for admission was forthwith rejected.
We’re very sorry to see Mr. Howden’s “ young friends”
afraid to meet a discussion they must face some day.
We don’t side with the Freethinkers* mind, but we
really don’t know what to believe. Mr. Howden goes
straight for the devil and hell, when more than three-
fourths of his followers are freethinkers on those very
points. Mr. Jeflferis declares there is no hell and no
devil, and hundreds of Congregational ministers agree
with him. Are we to follow Mr. Howden to hell or
remain with Mr. Jefferis? Perhaps, however, the
points are insignificant. Like Mr. Howden’s own
people, we’ll think for ourselves; in other words, be
Freethinkers.
» • •
The Camden Times has apparently abducted
one of Alfred’s poets. Mark how he sings :—
“ The Commercial lost his wager, and his temper like-
wise.
And abused Pat, the good-tempered, honest, and wise ;
But Pat was handed the wager by his master
As a reward for his cheerful disposition and good sense
In dealing with pounds, shillings, and pence.
—MULLIGAN."
Now see how we sing:—
Enough of this, O Mulligan ! enough of this, we entreat.
Why must thou kick at Camden folk with thy poetic
feet?
Why must thou oft belabor us with thy verse so infirm ?
What dost thou sling the editor to make the people
squirm ?
For evermore, O Mulligan, forbear, or you will see
There'll be 'fore long a f uneral in your own familee.
When Laycock was in Paris he wanted a pair of
gloves. On entering a shop to make the pur-
chase, the tradesman politely requested him to call
again in a week. u Mais porkquoit ?” enquired the
aquatic hero. “ Yell, Bare, I ’ave none one ’arf large
enough. I vill kill a kid to-morrow and make you a
pair. Zat is eef I can find a kid beeg enough."
• * •
Some maudlin meanderer has sent us several
verses, written apparently on a curl-paper, which he
heads—“ From Edward to Gertie.” This bard being a
good sample of the lunatic lyrists who contribute weekly
towards the filling of our dust-bin, we will give him a
show. He begins—
“ Upon my Gerties eyes so clear
I write the fairest cantatas?
Upon mylGerties mouth sincere (sic)
I write the best of terzinas ?
Upon my Gerties cheeks so dear
I write the cleverest stanzas ? ’*
The points of interrogation are the poet’s, not ours.
After this, he wanders both in thought and metre —
“ Whether devil you or angel.
Know I not —in case of women
One knows never where the angel
Ceases, and the deuce commences.
I’ve no belief in the devil.
In hell or the pains of hell;
In thine eyes believe I only
And thy false heart as well.”
From all this, we infer that Edward is in a bad way.
We are sorry for him, but we can’t help him. Bat we
are more sorry still for Gertie, if she allows this owl to
write upon her month the best of terzinas —whatever
they are. Ned, old boy, we are afraid you are only one
of many
“ Who pen a stanza when they should engross,"
and who make a sonnet in the morning and a shoe in
the afternoon. Let’s hope, however, that you can
cobble better than you can rhyme, otherwise your
profits at half-soleing and heeling must be infinitesimal.
What we want to ask you is, why do you send us your
effusions ? We do not take the slightest interest in you
—though we might possibly take some in Gertie, if she
is bright-eyed and rosy-cheeked. Send her along, old
son; or, tell us on what portion of the Rocks she resides,
and we will send a van for her.
* * *
The King of Croagingolong is very fond of
schnapper. This sounds like rhyme, but it isn’t the
genuine thing. It’s only the rhyme of the Lyre bards.
But no matter. To our tale, as G. P. R. James says.
Hearing that a popular auctioneer of the city of
oranges had gone for some fish, his majesty drives up
to the shop of the knight of the hammer’s brother, in
order to see if any of the fish were to come in his
direction. The schnapper not having arrived the
would-be fish devourer drives away, when he meets the
auctioneer’s daughter going in the direction of her
father’s house, carrying a shoulder of mutton done up
in paper. “ Aha!” thinks the king, “ here then is the
fish. I’ll steal a march on my noble friend.” Then
calling the child, he took the parcel from her without
examining it, and saying that he would take it round to
her father’s, whipped up the old mare, and drove with
all speed to his own residence. Handing the parcel to
his wife, and said: “ There old lady—fry some of this
for dinner and keep the rest for tea.” The parcel was
taken to the kitchen, opened, and found by the exaspe-
rated monarch to be a shoulder of mutton, purchased
in his own shop. Dissembling his disappointment,
however, he dines on corned beef and pickles, and runs
up to town to have a chat with Parkes and Wisdom,
about the “ principles underlying the constitution,”
and the price of pork. During his absence the fish he
coveted was really sent, and on his return, his lady
enquired if he would have the schnapper fried or boiled.
“That’ll do now,” said the king gravely. “Well
they’re beautiful fish, really,” said she. A cloud
gathered on the monarch’s brow. “ Old lady, cheese
it," he remarked, darkly. “ But John, such schnapper
I never ” “Silence,” he roared, purple with rage.
Just then the hired girl came in with the fish on a
soup-plate. Then the lines on the monarch’s face
melted away like frost before the sunshine, and after
embracing the beacon of his existence, he went round
to the shop, and despatched half a prime sheep to the
residence of the auctioneer. Such charming little
domestic idylls as these vary the monotony of man’s
existence, isn’t it so, dear readers ?
V.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
(BY “ONE OF Us.”)
The Brisbane totalisator is growing old.
The Beatrice-Ogden troupe, ’tis said, have now
got an interest in one of the Rockhampton papers.
A German in Maryborough lately lost his “leedle”
cat, and actually advertised a reward for its recovery.
Mirabile dictu! Morehcad proposed the toast
of the Press at the dinner to the Captain and officers of
the Merkara.
All the clergymen of Maryborough, with one
exception, are inveterate smokers. They smoke to keep
away the mosquitoes.
The Maryborough clock tower is the point from
•which most of the married ladies of the town keep watch
and ward over their husbands.
An eleven from the Stanley Cricket Club, of
Brisbane, proceeded to Toowoomba during the Easter
holidays, and played a match against a Downs eleven.
Ipswich has a woollen factory, a large railway
works, and the biggest store in Queensland; but yon
can’t get a packet of butterscotch to buy in all that
neighbourhood.
Shakspeare says “ all the souls that were, were
forfeit once.” If he were to see the Maryborough
Volunteers, he would say they were four-feet still, for
that is about their height.
The total number of men of all ranks in camp at
Lytton amounted to 594. Palmer expressed himself as
being disappointed at tin paucity of numbers. The
camp has otherwise been a success.
The editor of the Gtmpie Miner has had a
portrait of his stepmother painted in oils, and he tells
his readers it is a capital likeness. This is the editor
who advocates wheeled “ consequences ” for carrying
mails.
The cases of embezzlement against Doyle, late
Town Clerk of Charters Towers, have fallen through
and been dismissed. Norris’ retaining fee is now
voted money lost at the Towers, and King O’Kane is
jubilant.
Thady O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, a
hitherto staunch supporter of Stubley’s, now wants to
know whether F. H. “can offer any justification for
absenting himself from the House for so long a time
during last session."
Telegraphic. The Hodgkinson Miner has the
following inspired sentence in a telegram from Brisbane
about the recent murder and suicide at South Brisbane:
—“ The crime is supposed to have been premeditated in
a fit of insanity." So was that sentence.
Incident at the late Volunteer Encampment at
Lytton. Time. 10 p.m., sentry spies two forms and
challenges, “Who goes there?" “Never mind old
man, we know where there is some grand whisky in a
keg—shoulder arms and we’ll lap it." He went.
A Townsville publican, hearing strange noises in
his back yard at 2 a.m., “investigated," and found them
to proceed from a gentleman connected with the Civil
Service, who, being quite overcome with the heat, had
lain down beside a large log, on which he was lavishing
caresses and floods of terms of endearment.
The squatters’ organ in Maryborough lately pre-
sented to its subscribers a portrait of John Dillon, one
of the most prominent Land Leaguers. This is the
Dillon who said he was “ confident that the Land
Leaguers’ names would be banded down to posterity as
those of men who had added another link to the chain
of Liberty.” Liberty in chains!
A would-be M.L.A. was addressing the free and
independent at a township in the Southern part of
Queensland, when a dispute arose between two of
his auditors. They left to settle it outside, and
were soon followed by the assembled voters, who
left the room to the candidate and the chairman. The
discussion outside lasted fifteen minutes. When the
audience returned, the address was resumed and the
usual resolutions carried. The candidate and chairman
were the only dissatisfied persons in the room—they did
not see the fight.
A SUPPOSITION.
Thank God, such is our privileged position.
We are, at least, allowed a supposition.
Let’s see, then. What, on earth, shall we suppose ?
Confound the verse !—let’s dwindle into prose—
The prose in which M’Guven No 1 that’s flat;
We couldn’t come down quite so low as that.
We’ll cling to metre, anyhow, this time.
And teach poor little Punch the way to rhyme.
Or, perhaps, to say this would be more in season.
We’ll teach the poor old chap a little reason.
You wince, inspirer of the feeble cackle. —
Well, well; we’ve done; you're too small fry to tackle.
Suppose now, in a “ citee by ze sea ”
(Sweet Melville sung that right merrilee).
There was a print, neglected and forlorn.
That feebly flickered on the earth each mom:
A rag so feeble that—'tis strange to tell it—
Not e’en the hungry paper-boys would sell it.
Upon its page no gleam of Fancy shone;
But Desolation grim reigned there, alone.
Of wit, the rag accursed hod not one flash.
Yet lies were “ plenty” in that ill-spelled hash.
Stale was the news, the pars, to drivel sunk.
The “ sporting" rubbish, the critiques all drunk 1
The leaders libels—each a well-spun lie
On Civil Servants, who could not reply.
Suppose this sheet, the money-market tight.
Wrote right down wrong, and made all wrong seem right.
Suppose that, on the “ saving lay ’’ intent.
The fat proprietor round Austral went.
The gutters scoured—what a duty nice 1
And got his beery writers at.half-price.
Suppose this rag is—please to understand.
We but suppose—a by-word in the land ;
Suppose men buy it—look for sense in vain—
And then ejaculate—“ Ah, Rum again ! ”
Suppose the “heads” are driv’llers, when not “ screws,’ ’
Suppose there is no coin to pay for news.
Suppose the jKior rag’s dirge is now all sung.
That shortly it will totter, and go “bung;"
. Suppose—what need of further apposition,
’ When our rhyme’s but a simple supposition ?
At last the cloak is tom aside.
By those who did appoint thee
Thy shame is published far and wide,
By those that did anoint thee; —
It but remains for thee to die.
Whose life has been a living lie.
It’s proved thou, who of holiness
Hast been a loud protester.
Art but a canker-worm, no less.
That in the world does fester —
A thing to be gazed on with scorn
E’en by the very lowest bom.
The years that thou hast lived and shed
Thy poison all around thee!
The trusting hearts thou hast misled.
Till stern proof did confound thee!
Thou who did boast of purity
Art but a drivelling debauchee 1
For years this man against all lust
Has loudly been inveighing.
When ev’ry day his solemn trust
The rogue has been betraying!
And he has mourned “ lost souls," alack!
When all the while his own was black.
There is no spot upon this sphere
Where thy head can be rested:
For e’en by those who held thee dear.
Now must thou be detested 1
No matter where thou'lt choose to flee.
Thy thoughts will chase all peace from thee.
Of what avail thy snuffling prayers.
Except, old man, to shame thee ?
For men will shudder, when one dares
Above his breath to name thee!
No more for thee’s this world ! —Depart !
The air is poisoned where thou art.
ON THE MARRIAGE OF THE HON. E. A. BAKER.
We offer not a “ dinner set,"
A cruet-stand or plated ladle.
An infant’s coral, brooch of jet.
Nor—here you’ll smile—a baby's cradle.
We send, p'rhaps, you’ll like no less —
Our wishes for your happiness!
For wedding gifts are hollow things—
A kind of social mockery.
There’s no affection in cheap rings.
Or in “ job lots” of crockery.
So, therefore, not to be officious.
We merely send all our good wishes.
* • •
There was a medico who wrote—
(We have no time his “ stuff” to quote)—
A letter in a journal:
In which he said the tram-cars slew
The people in a manner, too.
He deemed was most infernal.
Now what he meant was this, of course :—
That the sole right to make a corse
Should be in doctors vested;
That awfully hard lines it was
On iEsculapii, because
They were by tram-cars “ bested.”
Now tcc don’t care a crooked —clam
For either doctors or the tram.
Though oft we’ve paid stiff fees, sirs :—
Yet this we say—the motor kills
At once, while those great men of pills.
All do it ly degrees, sirs.
So, on consideration, when
We wish to take our leave of men
(No matter where we go ter) ;
We’ll—this is truly our straight tip—
Just let the medicos all “ rip,”
And choose, instead, the motor.
* * *


Public Cosnpani
The mercantile bank
ESTABLISHED 18(
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF Pi
Paid-up Capital.
Eeserve Fund...
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.f
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King
ATJDITOES:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson,
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Geoi
LONDON BANKEE
The National Provincial Bank i
London Office, 30, Great St
Director —Edward Chapm
Agent—G. H. Alexande:
This Bank transacts all usual Bar
Agency Business on the most favours
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mad
other produce shipped to England fo
CORNWALL FIRE AND M
ANCE COMP AN!
CAPITAL, £lOO,OO
EESEEYE FUND
Fire and Marine Eisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AN
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEE
SIDNEY.
Photographer
458
GEORGE g
Opposite the Mabi
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL I'
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERM!
PARLOUR S 1
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) 1
805 GEORGE ST
Opposite the Railway T
Especially esteemed for his port]
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d pc
NOTICE
JROARTY,
, PHOTOGRAPHER,
604 GEORGE
BRI
Begs to inform his numerous patro
completed extensive alterations ii
ducive to the successful working of
ness, having imported, at great
most modem appliances from the 1
and having a staff of first-class a
studying the comfort of his cust(
Public Compar
C
OMMEECIAL BANKING
SYDNEY.
Established IBS'
Incorporated by Act of Co
Capital, £575,000. Reserve I
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy,
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., M
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R. £
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson i
Messrs. Cape and West*
Head Office— George-str
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; E. N. Burt,
Gaden, Branch Inspi
With Branches at Haymarket, Geor
Oxford-street.
London Office —39 Lombar
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M
Esq.; E. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel Cc
Branches in New South Walbi
Antnidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Beg
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, ]
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar,
Gobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonan
Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes,
Innes, Goulbum, Grafton, Gundag
uing, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Melon)
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twee
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Naraud
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qui
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wal
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, We:
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Voung. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisk
Maryborough, and Rockham
Agencies in the Coi
Victoria ; The Bank of Victoria
Australasia, Colonial Bank o:
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of _!
National Bank of Australasia
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank c
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diem
New Zealand : National Bank of ’
Agencies beyond the (
London : The London and Westm
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union ]
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland : The Belfast Banking
National Bank,
Scotland : The Commercial Bank c
San Francisco : The Bank of Br
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morg
India, China and Singapore : Th
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lon<
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercant:
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of 1
China.
Mauritius : Messrs, Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, a l .
dxed deposits, negotiates produce 1
issues drafts or letters of credit, ai
lects bills payable at any of the al
elsewhere, at current rates; collects
in public companies, and interest
for its customers in the investment
ties in Great Britain or in the colon
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSUEANf
VICTORIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. 1!
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wyny ard-street, S;
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Esc
This Society is established for Lii
granting of Annuities and Endowm
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the entir
Society at every distribution therec
LOANS granted on Mortgage or c
combined with Life Assurance.
mm
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
New reflecting lami
KEEOSENE.
*
\\(/\\
POE LIGHTING SHOP W]
BARWELL AND FISHE
GAS BUENEES JUST ,
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MAR
fJIHOMAS WEBB
GLASS AND CHINA MI
BOND STEE
SYDNEY.
WHOLESALE AND EETi
FOE
WEDGWOOD & MINTON’
Inspection invit
R O BONO
THE MUTUAL TEADE PEOTI
TION OP N. S.
J. HUEST, Secek
Offices; 32 BEIDGE STEEI
Established upon the most improv
for the protection of Merchants
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, i
the leading Mercantile communi
The following business is underti
or through the intervention o
licitor: —
The recovery of rents and debts
otherwise,, by written or personal
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or asi
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock,
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Eegistered Do
searched.
The Certificates of fradulent or un]
opposed in the interests of ere
Debts proved in insolvent estates
or balanced periodically.
AhHprmdi-nc Debtors traced and m!
T
HE BEST PAINT IN
1A
7 4>
V
CLASTIC
slNicc
THE PACIFIC EUBBE
is mixed ready for i
supplied in cans containing 1 gal.
These cans form a convenient Pa
complete.
Similar testimony to the followin:
us.—“Woollahra, August 20th, 188(
EHBBEK PAINT to be all that ii
and Bright, and owing to its large
I am inclined to think it is cheaper
My own house was painted with it i
and appears as fresh, clean and glos
last week —the same with the fence
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC 1
will cover 35 Square Yards —one c
coats ; 18 sq. yards, thri
Sample Cards of Colours and
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge to
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMS
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, nea
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZA!
(Near Hnnter-sti
RH E L L
• electeo-platee a
42 Park-street
SILVER-PLATED JEV
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by
equal to Solid Silv
Articles of table wear, etc., repla
to wear equal to the
English Electroph
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZA!
(Near Hnnter-sti
Q. AND S : P E
* SAW MILLS AND TIMI
16 Erskine Stre
Every description of Foreign ai
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at
g GLASS
■ STEAM COACH AND WI
WORKS,
Haeeis-steebt, off Geo
and
Adjoining the Darling Hai
S. G. would beg to draw the pai
Export Merchants to the large c
1 -1 Vnnd urTllon V


Easiness Announcements
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
G.
352 George-street.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERT RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W, H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, PleyeTs, Anchor’s,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
WINE GROWER AND MERCHANT,
Splendid DINNER WINES, from 12s. to 255, per doz.
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 21s, per doz.
PINE OLD WINES, suitable for Ladies and Invalids
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS: 40 Hunter-street. Sydney
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
JVC :ONtRNMENT OS SENATOR
KATODI^&SojSf
REDGATE’S
PATE m MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet lot
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■•M fey all Crocen aad Sfenk««HNi
B.
AND P. W. MASON,
DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
land, assurance, and general agents.
All matters carried out promptly. Flans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
ESTABLISHED 1837.
OWLS R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
-GAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Tobacconists
£
S
JAMES E
CELEBKATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Euby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the BOUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YOEK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
/rsV
m
vs
3
Manufactured by
3 A Y W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney,
~|jl CLARKE AND
■Wholesale and Eetail
CO.,
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.
PE RMEW A N, WRIGHT and CO.
(LIMITED).
Capital—£loo,ooo, in 20,000 Shares of £5 each.
(Established 1858.)
RAILWAF and GENERAL CARRIERS, CUSTOMS
and
SHIPPING AGENTS.
Directors :
Hon. HENRY CUTHBERT, M.L.C.
C. W. GIBSON, Esq. (Messrs. Fisken and Gibson)
JOHN PBRMEWAN, Esq. J.P. 1
JOHN E. WEIGH, Esq j Mana ff m & Directors.
Registered Office —120 Collins-street West, Melbourne.
Sydney Office—King.street, next door Howard Smith
and Sons.
Branch Offices at
Ararat
Avoca
Albury
Beaufort
Beechworth
Belfast
Benalla
Ballarat
Ballarat East
Bridgewater
Bethunga
Bairnsdale
Colac
Clunes
Corowa
Dixnboola
Deniliquin
Dubbo
Everton
Geelong
Hay
Horsham
Hamilton
Maryborough
Mnrtoa
Moama
Narandera
Orange
Sandhurst
St. Arnaud
Sale
Wagga Wagga
Wodonga
Wangaratta
Wahgnnyah
Portland
With Agencies at Adelaide, Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Bourke, Balranald, Booligal, Forbes,Parkes, Wilcannia,
Hillston, and Molong.
Sydney, Ist February, 1881.
V
ICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brush ware.
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOBGE-STBEET, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
, MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
APOTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Neab Hyde Park Cokkee.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT.-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E, thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May he easiest cured by the following remidies:—
EAMES’S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe eases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of ail the internal
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6, & 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, U OXFORD ST.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H, Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis-
-OOALCLIFP COAL.
When first sold In Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double-screened
17s. Ditto single ditto S- Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened 1 ..
225. Ditto single ditto ) Newcastle.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood andCb> areoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE
NO MORE
bnt try
EANDEESON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFEE from HEADACHE?
Then try Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give „hem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES,
tar Eemember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWAED EOW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDEE OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTEALI AN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only,
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales..
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor doe§ it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEAES
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speed>
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
easualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDEE OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would stdfer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rent dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK POE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWAED EOW & COMPANY.
c
ENTRAL PHARMAC
78 (Late 84) KING STEEET,
Y.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances
Toilet Eequisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOE
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
*** They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
T HARVEY.
• WHEELWEIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDEE, &c.
Hat and Engine Stbeets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DEAYS, SPEING CAETS,
BUSINESS CAETS, LOBBIES, &c.
Eailway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Eailway Plant
J. HAEVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
LLEN W EST
(Just from Europe),
PEOFESSOE OF DANCING, &c.,
Evening Adult classes, Mondays and Tuesdays, 8 p.m.
Adult Beginner’s classes, Saturdays 4 p.m. Children’s
classes, Thursdays 4.15 p.m.; Saturdays 2 p.m. Parties
wishing private tuition in Boston and Slow waltzes, &c.,
and latest fashionable Dancing, apply at Hall from 11
till 12 noon, 344 Castlereagh-street, corner of Goulburn-
street. Residence, 161 LIVEEPOOL STEEET,


B
LADON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALII
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALII
B LADON’S HEALTH SALII
A combination of Oxygenated I
of LEMONS, LIMES, and 01
Token according to direction
BLAZON'S HEALTH SALINE is a
ration a Iremedy as a preventive or cv
all Functional Irregularities of the
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitual
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sick:
Indigestion, the effects propuced b
dulgence in" rich food, or the at
beverages jGout, Rheumatism, &c.;
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphthei
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, clii
diseases. It is especially serviceabh
and should entirely supersede the
aperients. Children take it with p
vigorating effect' of an occasional dos
to successfully combat the insidious e
It effectually destroys the Poison Ge
contracted in our daily walk throng
alterative and enriching qualities it
the vital fluid to perform, in a health;
functions in the wonderful economy
piece—Man. Remember this is 1
supplied by the Science of Chemisl
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH Si
may justly be termed a BLOOD DIS]
A PPEOYED BY THE
Government
10th Ja
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I ht
that the parcel was received in goo
reason of my not writing to you befoi
of my wishing that the * Saline ’ shou
am now directed to inform you thi
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Yours faithft
“Reginald .
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH
B
The Australian CnuRCHMi
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERYEf
We can honestly recomm
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFAC
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUI
■ in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, P
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles
all chemists.
Wholesale —Messrs. Elliott Bros., f
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
A Y J E \
V. N]ADE
pl/UN f\tClj SJOC
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENI
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks—simple, strike.
Spectacles, etc., of aU 1
Plain figures—Low pric
■Jg| N J O Y L
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE % RETAIL IMPORTERS % MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OP THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Ikspectioh Eeqtjsstsd. j
Wi are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies*, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
OS
t
GO
CD
CD
in
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We But fok Cash —We Sell foe Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
j COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
Boys’ and Girls’ School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
CD
LU
3=
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only he a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
10s 6d DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Foxe’s Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d, Five cases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’ READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
332 & 500 TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
GEORGE STREET. shrunk and well cut. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
ALL GOODS MAP.KFD IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD FOR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTof§OAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
%
TRADE
MARK
£9g
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AHD SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
B. KEEP A CO.,
57 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
F
ACTS WHICH CONCER]
AT SOME PERIOD 0]
Houses famished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
House
House
House
House
FULL INFORMATION
House furnishing is not an easy ti
are of great assistance; they show
tainable for certain sums of mony,
many things which might otherwise
THE NEW GOODS CONSTAI
KEEPS EVERYTHING NICE
If
If
If
If
you have £l5 to spend
you have £25 to spend
you have £35 to spend
you have £5O to spend
If you
If you
If you
If you
YOU CAN SPEND I
ADVANTAGE
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHIN
CAMPBELL BRO’
(Late W. B. Campb
ROYAL FURNISHING
426 & 428 GEORGE S
Next the Royal H
Open every evening until i
M AN L T
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Dr. Moran, of New Zealand, has gone to Rome.
Rev. T. Pelham Dale has accepted a living in
Lincoln diocese.
The enlargement of St. John’s (C.E.), Parra-
matta, at a cost of £lOOO, is projected.
An American paper said the Pope mi£ht die at
any moment. Some people conldn’t see the joke.
The Rev. James Henderson, Presbyterian clergy-
man of Adelaide, has been deprived of his position
for immoral conduct.
The New South Wales members of the General
Wesleyan Conference, to be held in Adelaide, will start
overland on 4th May.
There is a difficulty about raising the .£BOO to
bring out three clergymen to conduct the Light Days’
Mission in Melbourne.
The Rev. Joseph Odgers has seceded from the
Congregationalists, and joined the Anglican Church,
Perth, Western Australia.
The Bishop Bloemfontein, preaching at Brighton
recently, received a cheque for £3OOO from one of the
congregation for the erection of ais cathedral.
There is to be held a great assembly of the
Shintoo priests in Japan to discuss the _ “ Jesus
doctrine,” and to decide how the tide of missionary
success can be stayed.
The “ Good Samaritans ” of Pitt-street have
purchased Woodburne Park, comprising sixteen acres
of land, at Manly Beach, for £2500, and intend estab-
lishing a female penitentiary there.
A Unitarian minister thus tersely puts it :
« Nothing in business ought otherwise be done than if
Jesus Christ were a partner in the firm. How strictly
just would He be, and merciful as well as just.
This is how Dr. Stanley goes straight for the
religious prints:—“ They address themselves to inflame,
pervert, and exaggerate every topic of personal and
party rancour.” This is simply unjust, isn’t it ?
The sum of .£lO4O was presented to the Bishop
by the parishioners of Holy Trinity, Kew, Melbourne,
to found scholarships in Trinity College, and relieve
the Bishop of the promise he made to find the money.
The returns from 86 schools in the principal
ports of Otago show 2966 parents, representing 10,255
children, in favor of the introduction of the Bible m
schools, and 432, representing 1175 children against it.
In the Irish Presbyterian Church there are 632
ministers, 558 congregations, 2097 elders, 6983 deacons,
and 104,769 communicants; 1052 Sunday-schools, with
8440 teachers, and an average attendance of 69,866
scholars.
Religious census of Canada: —Roman Catholics,
1,492,000; Presbyterians, 544,998; Anglicans, 494,049;
Weleyan Methodists, 567,091 ; Baptists, 239,343 ;
Lutherans, 37,935; Congregationalists, 21,829 ; miscel-
laneous, 15,857; no religion, 5575; not stated, 17,055.
The Commission of the Church of Scotland found
Mr Chimside’s charges against the Blantyre (African)
Missionaries proven. One man had been hanged for
murder, and severe floggings inflicted on many natives
for larceny. The offenders got off with a censure, but
three of the missionaries were subsequently recalled.
The three dissenters on the Strong Committee
are the Revs. D. S. Maxwell, A. Yule, and J, M
Abemethy; but on the two last of their “ findings,”
the committee are unanimous—namely, that Mr. Strong
seems to teach that there is no definite catholic
doctrine of the atonement, and that the substitutionary
sacrifice of Christ forms no essential element of the
same.
On Monday, being the festival of St. Mark, the
fashionable church having that name at Darling Point
celebrated the day by a grand choral service at 7.30
p.m. Some ten clergymen and twenty-six choris-
ters took part in the procession. The scene was very
imposing, and the music exceedingly high class.
The Rev. E. G. Hodgson, of St. Paul’s College, preached
the sermon.
Two of the Melbourne daily papers consider that
the action of the Victorian Presbytery in Mr. Strong’s
case is consistent. Either the whole fabric on which
Presbyterianism stands must go, or Mr. Strong must be
deposed for heresy. One of the journals, a secular print,
considers that Mr. Strong, in attempting to retain his
position, is not acting consistently. The press generally,
however, condemns the Presbytery.
Dr. Stanton, Bishop of Northern Queensland,
writes from England:—“ I feel sure that a splendid
future lies before Queensland. My description of it
has aroused general interest. Canada has had a long
run, but now our turn has come.” We are glad to hear
there is a splendid future for the colonies —not, how-
ever, through the instrumentality of our bishops, who
for the most part are always in ill health, and require a
change.
An interesting incident from the Vatican. A
Protestant lady visited thejlate Pope. She said; “ I love
Onr Lord with my whole heart. I believe in His
Divinity, in the efficacy of His Redemption. Will your
Holiness acknowledge me as a Christian ?” “ Most
certainly,” replied the Pope. “ And as a member of the
Church of Christ?” pursued the visitor, "Yes, in a
certain sense,” replied the Pontiff. “ Ton must not
believe that we deny salvation to all who do not
acknowledge the infallibility of the Catholic Church.
No; I believe persons may be saved by living according
to the truth which they acknowledge. I most cer-
tainly believe so.”
It is regarded by many as very strange that the
Church of England people of Sydney should not be able
to make of their cathedral in this city what the Roman
Catholics have made of theirs. St. Mary’s Cathedral is
not only the cathedral of Sydney, but the cathedral of
the whole colony. This is, of course, in respect to the
denomination to which it belongs. Not so, however,
with St. Andrew’s Cathedral. This splendid temple is
the church of St. Andrew’s parochial district—and
nothing more. It does not, in a sense, belong, as it
should, to the great Anglican body of Sydney or of the
whole colony,lbut is inseparable, as already stated, from
its parochial district and its parochial services.
Properly managed, St. Andrew’s would be filled with
worshippers who do not how visit the cathedral. As
a visitor to Sydney writes : —“ I feel sure that the ser-
vice—if made short and bright, and accompanied by
the highest class of music worthy of a cathedral of Him
to whose glory our worship is offered—and with short,
pointed instruction and practical sermons—would be
well attended and willingly supported by the people of
Sydney, who are not only intelligent, hut, I believe,
musical.”
Archbishop Vaughan has had a tilt with the
Evening News, re its article on “ Good Friday.”
“ After careful study,” says his Grace, “ we were pained'
to be obliged to come to the conclusion that the
Evening News denies, or—which is the same thing
practically —carefully abstains from teaching the
central doctrine of our Saviour’s creed, namely, that
Christ Himself is God. . . . Whilst blotting out
Christ’s one claim to adoration and worship, it still
seems to hold him up before the multitude as an object
of such beauty and perfection as to be, at all events,
next door to a divinity, and therefore worthy, if not of
worship in the strict meaning of that word, at least of
profoundest homage. The cloven foot is so carefully
concealed that it requires some dexterity to remove the
drapery of honeyed words which hide it. • • But
it is the nature of infidelity to swallow big boluses of
nonsense without knowing it; and whilst trampling on
Christian teaching on the one hand, on the other to
propound the most startling paradoxes and the most
incredible theories. We will give one instance. We
are assured by the writer that _ all the criticism of
modern times cannot find a ‘ single defect ’ in the
teaching of our Saviour, and in the next breath we are
instructed that * however indefatigable our Lord’s
admirers may be, they are certain to fail to comprehend
Him.’ We submit that this is the nearest approach to
nonsense that we have met with for a considerable time.
If you cannot ‘ comprehend ’ my teaching, how can you
know that there is not ' a single defect ’ in it ? . . .
Our point is this: that the spirit of the present age is
a spirit of unbelief, veiled by draperies of conventional
phrases and unmeaning words, and that the Evening
News * Good Friday ’ article is a pattern specimen of
that self-same spirit apeing Christianityland, in reality,
committing itself to nothing that a blasphemer against
God’s existence might not willingly subscribe to.”
Now, what would Dr. Vaughan say if he were assured
the writer of the article was a Presbyterian clergyman ?


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Cardinal Newman is 80.
The Chief Justice is in Melbourne.
Sir Henry Parkes has returned from Melbourne.
Jeff. Davis is writing a history of the Con-
federacy.
Mr. D. M. Baily has been temporarily appointed
curator of the Brisbane Museum.
A sister of Richard Lalor Sheil, the famous Irish
orator, died recently in Waterford, Ireland.
M. Grevy, the French President, saves half big
salary, and invests it in Parisian landed property.
The Duke of Westminster has <£3ooo per day,
including Sundays. His heir will be better off by £2OOO
per day.
The general verdict of the London critics is that
Beaconsfield, as an author, achieved only a second-class
reputation.
Lord Perth, of South Kensington, is insolvent.
He didn’t get a colonial governorship, as it was expected
he wonld do.
Joseph Arch, president of the English Agricul-
tural Labourers’ Association, partly supports Parnell
in his land agitation.
Dr. Eenwick, our Executive Commissioner, has
gone to Melbourne to arrange for the return of the New
South Wales exhibits.
The Marquis of Normanby is an
Oddfellow.
Prince Bismarck weighs a trifle
over 17st 51bs.
Victor Hugo celebrated his
80th birthday last February.
It is stated that Colonel Baker
has been knighted by the Queen.
Mr. W. H. Bryant, of Queens-
land, won the Bowen prize at the
Melbourne University.
Lord de Clifford lately sold his
house in Carlton-House Terrace, to
Lord Brownlow, for £40,000.
Superintendent Hare is to re-
ceive £626 from the Victorian Govern,
ment for “ medical attention to his
wounded wrist.”
Mr. W. Hart, M.L.A., a Laun-
ceston ironmonger, received £4OBO a
few days since as his monthly dividend
from the Tasmanian Gold Mining
Company.
The Duke of Manchester is doing
the New Zealand towns. At last ac-
counts, he was about to visit the Man-
chester settlement, with which he has
been so long connected.
A brother of Lord Beaconsfield
is employed as a clerk in the House of
Lords. Quiet and unobtrusive, few
would ever think him a member of a
great mountebank’s family.
The Hobart Mercury, of the
18th inst., says“ Sir H. B. Sandford
will leave for England on the 10th
May. He has endeared himself (the
italics are our own) to all British ex-
hibitors," &c., &c. Bosh!
Mr. Gladstone now wears a black
skull-cap in the House of Commons.
This somewhat ages him, but im-
proves his appearance. His recent
accident greatly shook him, for his
voice does not seem to be so strong as
it was.
Sir Henry Parkes has bought
the Aurora Vase, exhibited by Messrs.
Webb and Sons, at the Melbourne Ex-
hibition, for the sum of 500 guineas.
We are unable to state whether the
Premier has bought it for Falcon-
bridge or Bridge-street.
The gambling tables at Monaco
cleared £20,000 during the first week
in January. These winnings were
principally composed of the losings of
two American ladies—one of whom is
said to have been the eldest daughter
of Mrs. A. T. Stewart, and the other
Mr. Jay Gould’s niece.
In the House of Lords, recently,
Lord Stanley, of Alderley, proposed,
as an antidote to the Irish difficulty,
the appointment of an English am-
bassador at the Court of the Pope, and
the granting of glebes and manors to
the Irish E.C. clergy. The proposal
caused much merriment, no less in
England than in Ireland.
One of the younger sons of the
Duke of Argyle has married a Miss
Blood—a lady who has written a good
deal under the nom de plume of
“ Brunefilde.”_ The young lady, how-
ever, has, besides her literary attain-
ments, a very large fortune. Thus
the clan will, for the first time, per-
haps, benefit by Blood money.
The other week we said that Mr.
John Campbell was the oldest native.
Mr. Hill, however, claimed the cake
on this score, on the following week,
asserting that he was at least two
years older than the first named gen-
tleman. Mr. Bray, of Campbelltown,
now comes up smilingly to aver that
he can give Mr. Hill a year and some
months.
Dr. Beaney gave a double event
medical dinner in Melbourne recently,
in compliment to Dr. Prendergast,
surgeon of the s.s. Norfolk, now here,
and brother to Mr. P. Prendergast,
one of the leading medicos of the
southern metropolis. Occasion
was taken of the event to drink hon
voyage to Dr. Blair, who was about
leaving for Europe.
Mr. Bnmand, editor of the London Punch, was
educated for the E.C. priesthood. By some kind inter-
vention he became editor of a comic paper.
At the close of the Melbourne International, Sir
Herbert Sandford will pay a visit to Sydney—with a
view, it is said, of seeing something of the solid pros-
perity and material wealth of Australia.
Mr. John E. Kelly, formerly of the Stockwhip,
ent who is now back at pastoral pursuits, is sending to
•Mount Poole diggings a water lift capable of supplying
a population of 3000, and a six-stamper battery. He is
convinced that the field has a grand future.
Of late years, Gladstone has seldom entered the
onse of Commons intending to make a great speech
without bringing with him a small bottle containing a
mixture of sherry and the white of eggs. A sip of the
u^? 1C v fluld , cl , ears bis throat, rendering it (as the
r reach say) veloute,
thua BUms n P the naval
snam fight” Nothing could have been better than the
way m which the ships and boats were handled, and the
iu not only efficiently conducted, but the way
hichi lCh the look cover and worked generally was
“smy commented upon by competent judges."
Graham Berry is dissatisfied with the Kelly
ard awards. The gentlemen composing it, he thinks,
vpl™ ntly miBtaken the intentions of the two Go-
“ents- The £BOOO was not to be distributed as
r , e m ? ney * but in appreciable sums to a few who
themselves deservedly conspicuous in their
to tu t 0 capture the gang. Mr. Berry gave expression
scW? 86 ldeas , at an interview which Mr. Cumow, the
ooimaster, had with him in reference to the illiberal
manner m which he (Cumow) had been treated.
The Empress of Austria, who recently visited
England to enjoy her annual hunting tour, has a very
high appreciation of Mr. Gladstone. “He is one of the
strongest men living,” her Majesty the other day
declared, and then proceeded to draw, with much
ingenuity and some little humor, a parallel between
him and Bismarck, whom she cordially detests. Her
favorite politician, however, is Andrassy. This is how
she dealt with the British, politically You
English have done your best to render government im-
possible all the world over. The attempt to imitate
you has done Austria more harm than Solferino and
Sadowa put together.”
Who are the Boers ? is a question Lieut.-Colonel
Butler answers concisely in a communication to a Lon-
don magazine. Two hundred years ago, 150 exiled
Huguenots selected the distant Dutch colony in South
Africa as their homes. Among them there were some
very good names—names which little more than a cen-
tury later were figuring high in that long roll of mar-
shals and generals of France which the Revolution and
its great soldier gave to fame. Hugo, Joubert, Jour-
dam, Eetief, Amoly, De Villiers, Bertrand, Fouche, Du
Plessy, Monney, Serrurier, Victor, &c. The exiles
brought to the new colony strength and mental power
of a new kind. These French Huguenots, and the much
larger number of Dutch employes of the old East India
Company, were the ancestors of the people whom to-day
we call the Boers—a people slow to think, but not easily
to be turned from their thought when once they have
formed it; slow to_ embark in any movement, but cer-
tain to follow it to its extreme end when it has once
been begun. A homely, sober, virtuous, quiet, dull
race of beings, as full of faith in God and of fair dealing
between man and man as this world holds human
samples of.
Mr. J oseph Cowan, a member for one of the
English constituencies, made a great conciliatory speech
in the House of Commons on the Coercion Bill. His
remarks were loudly cheered from both sides of the
House. He said : “It was a melancholy and mournful
reflection that the British Parliament, eighty years
after the Union, which was to bring peace and pros-
perity to Ireland, should be occupied in formulating a
ukase that would place the liberties of the Irish people
at the caprice of a prejudiced and perplexed police, a
maddened magistracy, and a bewildered Government.
For seven sad centuries English rule in Ireland had
been little else than a dreary round of starvation and
agitation, conspiracy and insurrection, followed by
brutal repression and reprisals. Why was there this
unending enmity, this enduring distrust between the
two peoples ? ’’
Professor Davidson, lecturing before the Boston
Institute, made some interesting remarks on the sub-
the world’s philosophy. He said the principle
of Descartes was profoundly false, as was the whole
velopment of thought based upon it, including most
of the philosophies at present in vogue in Prance and
Germany. During the last 200 years, Italy had produced
more solid thought which would prove a lasting ad-
dition to the treasures of human knowledge than any
other single country in Europe. That this had not
been known and recognised by outside scholars only
showed how great might be the force of a prejudice.
Modem Italian philosophy had been ignored and neg-
lected by northern scholars, for hardly any other reason
than because Italy was a religious country. The
philosophy of Eosmini appeared to be the most com-
P|®t® of Italy, and Italian philosophy still asserted its
ability to furnish a rational basis for life according to
the highest ideals, whereas the developments of the
Cartesian and subjective philosophy could not do so.
Mr. Henry Kendall, who by common consent
is regarded as the poet laureate of Australia, has been
appointed Inspector of State Forests in New South
Wales, at a salary of £5OO and travelling expenses. It
is satisfactory to be able to state, in addition to this
pleasant item of news, the gratifying fact that it has
been found necessary to issue a second edition of Mr.
Kendall’s poems.
The Duke of Cambridge requires in his town
walks the personal attendance of a police guard. His
delusion is that he is a second Czar. Up to the present
the only things that have been fired at him are
squibs—in the newspapers. It appears, further, that
there is a mutual misunderstanding about the matter.
The Duke believes the guard to have been furnished to
save his life, while the police believe they are required
to keep him from being lost.
Carlyle throughout his life was a great smoker,
using, not the ordinary pipe, but a pipe with a huge
china bowl, which he rested on the floor, and from
which he blew enormous clouds of smoke. In order to
obviate inconvenience to visitors he usually sat on a
low seat by the fire, and puffed his smoke up the
chimney. In the warmth of conversation he often for-
got his pipe until it was extinct, and not a little time
was consumed in his efforts to relight it.
The Czar happened one day to be engaged in
inspecting a State penitentiary, and took it into his
head to question some of the convicts as to the nature
of the offences for which they were in “ quod.” His
Excellency may do the same thing when he visits
Darlinghurst, for all we know. “ What were you
lagged for P " asked Nicholas of one. “I am innocent,
your Majesty,” replied the prisoner, falling on his
knees (just as Dr.j does every night): “ I’m a
victim of false witness. A church was robbed—a beadle
knocked on the head—the peasants caught hold of me,
and I knew nothing about it." Turning to another, the
Czar asked, “ And you ? ” “ False witness again, your
Majesty. A pedler was done for close to my house. I
never even dreamt of such a thing." “And you?"
said Nicholas to a third. “ Sheer malice, sire. One of
my neighbours conveyed a lot of forged notes into my
pockets, and hid away a lithographic stone in my bed-
room. lam as innocent as an unborn babe." The
Emperor, obviously bored by these successive protesta-
tions of guiltlessness, cast his eagle-eye along the line
of prisoners until it fell on a ragged, wretched-looking
gipsy, whom he beckoned forward with the words,
“Of course, you, too, are here on a false charge?”
“ Not a bit of it, your Majesty,” was the reply: “ it’s
all fair and square as far as I’m concerned. I stole a
pony from a tradesman.” “Stole a pony, did you?”
said the Czar, with a laugh, and then, addressing the
governor of the prison with well-assumed sternness,
said, “ Turn that good-for-nothing rascal out of doors.
I cannot allow him to remain a minute longer in such
honourable and virtuous company, lest he pervert all
these good innocent people! ”
The Clontarf Affair.
The Bulletin and Messrs. Moore Bros., of Clontarf,
are not able to agree. The gentlemen named have asked
us to apologise for an article, entitled “ The Larrikin
Eesiduum," which appeared in this journal in January
last. We flatly decline to do so, and Messrs. Moore
Bros ; are appealing to the blind goddess, whom they
solicit to award them £lOOO. The wig-shaking is fixed
for sth May.
IN THE DENS OF THE ALMOND-EYED.
This world is a world of sunshine and of shadow.
Those who bask in the warm glow of wealth and com-
fort hear but little of the unfortunates who live in the
shadow of poverty and despair. The lady, lolling back
in her carriage, daily passes haunts of the vilest
description, but happily she knows it not. She knows
the city but as she sees it—some streets broad, some
streets narrow—some rich, and some poor. And this
ignorance as to the actual moral and sanitary conditions
of Sydney is by no means confined to the lady aristo-
crats of the type we have quoted : but the majority of
the general public are equally in the dark respecting,
what we may term, the inner life of this great me-
tropolis.
* * •
There is no city, however beautiful, but has
blots upon her loveliness. Paris—gorgeous Paris—is
disfigured by her Faubourg St. Antoine and Quartier
Mouffetard; London by Seven Dials and Katcliffe
Highway ; Edinburgh by the Cowgate—and so on : but
we question whether any of these ancient cities con-
tain dens of a more hideous and revolting nature than
those which are to be found festering in the very heart
of Sydney. Writers in the public Press have, at times,
made spasmodic attempts to describe some of the
slums of the city and their denizens; but, as a rule,
their efforts have been of such a feeble nature that
their articles were successful in nothing except boring
the public. This being the case, we have resolved, in
this, and possibly subsequent articles, to endeavour to
afford our readers glimpses at the dark side of Sydney
life which they have not before had
an opportunity of indulging in.
» • •
The first slide we shall fit in our
magic lantern will be that which de-
picts the haunts of the Chinese. In
order to obtain material for this sketch,
we gladly availed ourselves of Inspec-
tor Seymour’s permission to accom-
pany him in a nocturnal tour
of inspection, which he, with
his assistant, Mr. Watkins, and Dr.
Dansey, the Health Officer, took last
Monday, by order of the Mayor. Our
readers will remember that we have,
on certain occasions, deemed it our
duty to differ with his Worship’s
municipal policy, but with his action
in keeping the Chinese dens under
strict supervision we certainly concur.
It may be mentioned that so grave are
Mr. Harris’s apprehensions as to the
results of the filthy habits of the
Mongolians who are swarming to
these shores, that he has instructed
Inspector Seymour to devote his whole
attention to the dwellings of the
Chinese, in order that the municipal
by-laws respecting the sanitary ar-
rangements of the city may be enforced,
and temporarily appoint subordinates
to look after his other duties.
• • r
Evening was fast turning into
night as we started upon our expedi-
tion. The air was close and oppressive,
but there was no sign of rain in
the sky, which was bespangled with
myriads of stars, albeit Cynthia did
not put in an appearance. This, on
the whole, is a matter of congratulation
to us, as, to paraphrase Mr. Puff, “ It
saves such a lot about the rising moon
silv’ring the Eastern hemisphere.”
Our mentors being punctually at the
trysting-place, we started off in cabs
to the first Mongolian haunt. Straight
down George-street, past the flashing
jewellers’ shops, past the myriads of
clothiers —(how, on earth, do they all
live ?) —past the well-known hostelries,
where men were going in feeling for
their three-penny pieces, and men were
coming out wiping their moustaches ;
past the familiar cafe, with gilded
youth holding mysterious conferences
with cabmen before its swinging por-
tals; past Bridge-street—and swooping
round the corner, into the land where
Jack the Tar luxuriates, and John the
Chinaman flourishes.
• • *
Leaving the cabs in Argyle-
street, Mr. Seymour, having drawn a
taper from a tin-case which he carried
in the breast pocket of his coat, led
the way to Clay’s Buildings, in Cam
bridge street. These consist of six
tumble-down tenements; four facing
the street frontage, and two being in
the rear. Lighting his taper, the In-
spector led the way down some slimy
steps into a cellar 12 x 18ft, the at-
mosphere of which was indescribably
noison e. The furniture consisted of
two rickety tables and a frowsy bed,
on which was stretched some matting,
and piled upon which were some bed-
clothes —the look of which was sug-
gesive of the existence of innumerable
ig, big B.’s. Inside this was another
cavern, of equally forlorn appearance,
lying on the bed of which, were, a
tray between them, two dusky celes-
tials deep in the enjoyment of their
favourite narcotic. These worthies
took no notice whatever of our advent
except on one of our party saying,
“Very good, John," when the less
sleepy of the two grinned and said,
“ Wei lee good," and as an after
thought, “Me selle cabbagee." That
these two dens were totally unfit for
human habitation is without question,
and we were relieved by hearing Mr.
Seymour state that he would recoin-
mend the Mayor to condemn the whole
building. |
Our next “dart” was np a
crazy ladder into a loft, in the occu-
pation of a lady who rejoices in the
name of Mrs. Ah Fan. This woman,
in conjunction with her husband,
who was at the time of our visit
absent (being possibly detained at
his club) occupies two apartments—the
loft up-stairs as a sleeping-chamber.and
one of the rooms which we have already described as a
boudoir and salle d manger. For these two apart-
ments Mr. Ah Fan paid ss. weekly. The loft was almost
entirely filled with two large beds, upon one of which
slumbered a remarkably fine female child of 12 years of
age, whose features, though she wa s a half-caste, were of
the pure Mongolian type. Mrs. Ah Fan was her mother.
Feelings of delicacy prevented our making any inquiries
as to her paternal relative. Mrs. Ah Fan herself was a
stout-faced party with’an ogrish leer and a swivel eye,
which she fixed upon our party in a highly malevolent
manner. Her attire was a short flannel jacket that had
once been red, and a skirt, the original of which no
mortal man could ever divine. The air of the place
reeked with opium, although when questioned by
Mr. Seymour as to her smoking proclivities, she denied
ever indulging in the drug. The child, on being spoken
to, appeared timid, and replied in some language ap-
parently her own. The mother said she spoke English,
and further that she (Mrs. Ah Fan) would never have
her learned no Chinese.”
• • •
After inspecting some more dens in the base-
ment, we ascended to the first floor. Here attempts
had been made to hide the filthy, verminous walls by
means of papers bearing Chinese emblems and cheap
pictures ; but dirt, rottenness, and ruin were every-
where. In one room lay two Chinamen upon a bed
smoking their rank tobacco, and at times, chewing pea-
nuts. One of them was a stoutly-built fellow, dressed
in a new European suit of black cloth, while the other
was attired in a dilapidated Chinese suit. The contrast
was singular. In this place the windows were not only
(apparently) hermetically sealed, but thick blinds were
drawn over them. Mr. Seymour’s suggestion, that
they should let in a little air, was received with sullen
dissent. On the top floor we came upon three small
rooms similar to that below, in the inside one of which
THE SOUTH SEA LABOUR TRADE.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND TRADER : “Now gentlemen, give me a start. What shall we say for this ’ere cocoanut—and
the nigger thrown in? Five pounds only bid for this cocoanut. Five pounds; five on'y; five—did I hear six? No
advance; going at five; gone. Next nigger; I mean next cocoanut.”


JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s 6d per week.
JOHNSTON S DEPOT.
fJIHE LIGHT RUNNING STANDARD.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HATMAEKET.
gINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HATMAEKET.
AYE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORP HEX’S,
233 Pitt Street?
JnDIA AND (JeiNA (JoMPANY,,
705 GEORGE STREET,
HATMAEKET
(opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
We beg to call special attention of the public to our
BLENDED TEAS—
Finest Family Blend 2/-
„ Royal „ 2/6
Superior Queen’s Blend 3/-
~ Empress „ 4/-
Packed by us, and bearing our trade-mark as a
guarantee of purity and weight.
Sold in i-ih and 2-lb packets, and in canisters of sB>
and 7B); also, catties, boxes, J-chests, &c.
SAMPLES of these TEAS can be obtained at the
Stores, or of our travellers.
REUBEN OLIVER,
Manager,
COUNTRY ORDERS faithfully executed.
Winter Requisites just in time. Bought to open
May Ist. Waterproofs, Children and Ladies’, from
4s. 6d. to 255. Long Jackets, ss. to 455.
DOLMAN’S VARIOUS PlECES—Winter Skirts in
Felt and Quilted Alpaca. Wool Goods of all Kinds,
as Cuffs, Boas, Fischus, Wrappers, and Seal, Monkey,
and other Muffs.
A Nice Lot of Frillings, Fringes, Girdles, Plushes,
Velvets, Velveteens, Laces, Hosiery and Corsets,
Household Drapery.
In the item of Dress Materials and Dressmaking,
WE CAN PLEASE YOU.
Winter Millinery now showing. First-class Dress-
making. Country Customers send P. 0.0.
Our own Registered Glove—
-2 Buttons 4 Buttons 6 Buttons-
In the Shop ... 2a 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
Posted 3s 4s 5s
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET 656
(Just below Liverpool-street).
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 14th April, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessee
executes and takes delivery of the under-
mentioned Gold-mining Lease within thirty days
from this date, it will declared void.
E. A. BAKER,
Southern District.
No., 73-21; William Kendall; Portion No., 69;
County of Murray, parish of Tonal; 3 acres. Applica-
tion No., Young 73-21,
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 20th April, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from
this date, it will be declared void.
E, A. BAKER.
Western District.
No, 4812; .J, Williams and W. Holmes ; near junction
between Losh’s Creek and Macquarie River, parish of
Coolamau ; 400 yards; Application No., Bathurst 4812.
Department of Mines,
* Sydney, 20th April, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB MINERAL
' LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessee
executes and takes delivery of the under-
mentioned Mineral Lease within thirty daya
from this date, it will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
No. 925; William Litchfield; Portion No., 380;■
county of Hardinge, parish of Swinton; 18 acres; Ap-
plication No., Tingha 196.
HOW TO MAKE MONEY
Is a problem which the vast majority of mankind have set themselves to solve, and the next question
which presents itself is, how to spend it to the best advantage. Answers to this latter question have
never been wanting. Their name is, and always has been, “ Legion.” And by reason of their very
numbers they leave the question still unanswered —so conflicting are they. Every trader, whether
his transactions be in pence or pounds or thousands of pounds, from the hawker, with his basket,
upwards, is vociferous in telling you that his wares are the “ cheapest and best.” This is the case to
the uttermost corner of this “ puffing advertising, bill-sticking section of creation,” as a great writer
has termed it. Not only is it confined to modem times, but looking back upon the history of the
past, “from Noah’s flood downwards,” —aye, and before it —the same feature is distinguishable in
one form or another. Could we bring to light a copy of the Babylon Herald or the Daily
Telegraph of ancient Nineveh, “ that great city,” our estimate of human nature would be some-
what eut if the announcements of the Smiths, Joneses, and Robertsons of that age should not be
found figuring as boldly as to-day, apprising the public of earlier times of some “gigantic
sacrifice” or “immense reduction” in the price of the latest robe of the period.
AS A MATTER OF FACT, it is the outcome of that principle of self-preservation, which
dominates, not only the whole human race, but every race, throughout creation. Commencing with
the lowest form of animalcnlae —those organisms so frail as to be invisible to the naked eye—and
ascending upwards through each successive stage of evolution, the principle is found innate. Nor do
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
claim exemption from this rule. To attempt to get rid of this would be absurd. But what they say
is this, that whilst with the Ninevites and Babylonians as alike with their own contemporaries, de-
claring their wares to be
“THE CHEAPEST AND BES T,”
they would exultingly point a finger at the INDISPUTABLE CORROBORATION THEREOF
which is furnished by the whole colony of New South Wales, whose denizens are daily seen rushing
in crowds to the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
each one with his or her quota of evidence, bearing witness to the fact that the PRICES, as com-
pared with the VALUE of the DRAPERY, &c., given for them are WITHOUT A RIVAL.
“ WHERE IS THE PALACE EMPORIUM ?” may be the query of some. It is at the
HAYMARKET
To this we would invite special attention :
OUR NAME AND ONLY ADDRESS ARE—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAEKET (ONLY).
T
HEA T E E
Lessee
Acting Manager ...
E O T A L.
... Mr. Sami. Lazar.
... Mr. G. L. Goodman.
WILLIAMSON’S OPERA COMPANY.
THIS EVENING. AND UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE.
Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan’s marvellously successful
Opera, the
PIRATES OF PENZANCE .£»
or
THE SLAVE OF DUTY.
GORDON’S SCENERY and SPLENDID COSTUMES.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
gYDNEY OPEEA HOUSE.
General Manager EDWARD S. WOLFE.
SECOND WEEK
and
UNBOUNDED SUCCESS.
GRAND CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
R. B. LEWIS’
MASTODON COLOURED MINSTRELS.
THE PINNACLE REACHED AT LAST.
B—EIGHT END MEN—B—EIGHT END MEN—B.
THE WOOLLOOMOOLOO GUARDS
in their Grand Parade.
9—GREAT SONG AND DANCE ARTISTS—9
THE BANJO TOURNAMENT.
E. MOORE in his ORIGINAL FARCE,
OUR BOYS.
THE GRAND STATUE CLOG TOURNAMENT.
The whole to conclude with the amusing Opera,
THE PARROTS OF ALAKASAN,
By the Entire Company.
Prices Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Chairs 35.;
Stalls, 25.; Pit, Is. Entrance from King-street.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
MONTAGUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY.
THIS EVENING, and until further notice,
WALLACE’S Romantic Opera,
MARITANA.
New and Spendid Scenery. Pull and Efficient Chorus.
Box Office and Plan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s,
325 George-street.
Prices of Admission: Private Boxes, £2 25.; Orchestra
Chairs, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Balcony, 25.; Pit, Is.
Doors open at 7.15; commence at 8. Carriages may
be ordered for 10 30.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
s
CHOOL OF ARTS.
CROWDED HOUSES. GREAT SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING,
PROFESSOR
] ANDERSON
Great Wizard of the North, and
LOUISE ANDERSON,
[in their Psychromantheum of Diableerie.
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES. SUITES OF FUR-
NITURE, PIANOS, and other USEFUL PRESENTS,
distributed nightly.
Q
UEE N ’ S
THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. J. F. Keogh.
Manager Mr. E. D. Haygarth.
Stage Manager Mr. Sterling Whyte.
FLYING SCUD. FLYING SCUD.
Triumphant Success.
Theatre Packed.
DELIGHTED and ENTHUSIASTIC AUDIENCES,
to witness the great performance of Mr.
WM. HOSKINS
as “ Mo’ Davis.”
MISS MARIAN WILLIS
as “ Katie Rideout,” and Mr.
E. D. HAYGARTR
as “Nat Gosling," the veteran Jockey,
in Dion Boncicanlt’s Great Racing Drama,
FLYING SCUD! FLYING SCUD!
And until further notice.
Reserved seats, 45.; dress circle, 35.; stalls, 2a.; pit. Is.
Box plan at W. H. Paling’s, George-street.
G. CHUECHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand, la 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
MPORTANT
NOTICE.
GLOVE, HOSIERY & BOOT & SHOE WAREHOUSE,
12 HUNTER-STREET, SYDNEY.
J. M. ELLERCAMP
(Many years with Messrs. Parmer and Co.)
Desires respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Sydney
and the suburbs that he has purchased the old-estab-
lished business of Messrs. Parrott Brothers.
J. M. E. is now offering for sale the whole of the
present stock for CASH at a great reduction from its
ORIGINAL COST, and trusts, by strict attention to
the requirements of his patrons, and by importing a
regular succession of novelties, for which arrangements
have been made, to merit a fair share of the patronage
so long bestowed upon his predecessors.
April 25,1881.
E
SKB AN K ATHLETIC SPORTS
QUEEN’S BIRTHDAY, MAY 24.
LITHGOW HANDICAP, 150 yards; open to all
comers.—lst prize £2O, 2nd £5, 3rd £3, 4th £2.
ONE-MILE FLAT RACE.—lst prize £4, 2nd £l.
HURDLE RACE, 150 yards.—lst prize £2, 2nd £l.
MINERS’ HANDICAP, 130 yards.—lst prize £2,
2nd £l.
SPECIAL HANDICAP. 125 yards.—lst prize £4,
2nd £l.
HIGH JUMP.—Prize £l.
HOP, STEP, and JUMP.—Prize £l.
TUG OF WAR.—Prize £l.
Entrance for Lithgow Handicap, 10s.; acceptanc/ eg>
7s. 6d. Entrances for other races, 5 per cent. Entran C 63
for the Lithgow Handicap to close on the 3rd of Afray.
Handicaps to appear in the Town and CodWrt
Journal and Lrraeow Mebcurt of the 7th May. ‘ Post
entrance for other events.
Competitors to give all their previous perform; mcgg
in to the Secretary,
G. F. SOUTE-b
ODEEN HIGH SCHOOL.
BOUEKE-STEEET, MOOBE PAEK.
Headmaster— ME. WEISS,
Late an Assistant Classical and Mathematical Master
Sydney Grammar School.
Second Master—DE. EODWAY, M.A.
Pupils joining during quarter pay proportion only
of fees.
THE EASTER VACATION of the MODERN
HIGH SCHOOL, Moore Park, terminates TO-
DAY. The Classes for various Examinations begin
work on the same date.
EEEMAN AND COMPANY,
PHOTOGBAPHEBS
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVEENOE,
346 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Oil, Crayon, and Miniature Painters.
Permanent Autotype Enlargements up to Life Size.
HENNESSY’S HOTEL,
EUTHVEN-STEEET, TOOWOOMBA.
The above is, without exception, the LAEGEST and
MOST COMMODIOUS HOTEL in the whole of the
Darling Downs and Western Districts.
A large and well-constructed Hotel has been a great
want in Toowoomba, and that want is now supplied in
HENNESSY’S HOTEL.
The Coffee and Dining Booms are large and roomy,
and are well furnished. There are over 20 single bed-
rooms, besides family apartments. All the bed-rooms
are furnished with full bed-room suites. Private
apartments, with sitting rooms, for families.
To commercial gentlemen Hennessy’s Hotel offers
unusual advantages. Situated in the leading street of
the town, it is in the centre of all the banks and busi-
ness places, and only a short distance from the newly,
erected Public Buildings. A large SAMPLE BOOM,
specially for Commercial gentlemen, has been erected.
A large and well-ventilated BILLIAED BOOM,
fitted with a new billiard table of the latest design.
The Cuisine Department will be under the manage-
ment of a first-class cook.
The best best brands of Wines, Ales, and Spirits.
No effort or expense has been spared to make
Hennessy’s Hotel one of the best in Queensland.
The Bulletin and other Sydnay and Melbourne
papers kept on the file.
To Eacing men Hennessy’s Hotel commends itself.
There are large, roomy stables and loose boxes.
Buggies and horses always on hire. A buggy will
meet all trains.
we chanced upon another sylph who had cast her let
with the barbarians. This was a smirking, middle-aged
party, who had lost nearly all her teeth by chewing
bamboo pipe-stems. We told her she was qnite a
belle, to which she replied, with a coquettish toss of
her “shock” head, that “she wouldn’t be like her
mother if she wasn’t” —a sentiment which appeared
to be endorsed by the ten Chinese who were, as we
entered, scorching, moth-like, their wings at the lamp
of this unlonely vestal. On Mr. Seymour enquiring
which was her husband, she picked out, after some
hesitation, a lemon-cheeked, lantern-jawed Chinaman
from the crowd who, on being pushed to the front by
his grinning compatriots, appeared by his sullen, not
to say bellicose manner rather to resent than rejoice
in the distinction which had been'lavishednn him,
S’ --'* •
Down stairs we had the honor of a presentation
to a tall, thin young person in a faded blue
gown, and a consumption. This woman told us that
her husband was a carpenter, and that he earned 355. a
week. She had two rooms—the front one being
furnished with some approach to comfort, though very
little to cleanliness, with the exception of the sheets,
which were displayed in hospital fashion, in order to
favourably impress the inspector. Mr. Seymour in-
formed us that, two years ago, she was one of
the prettiest girls in Sydney, and even at the time she
took up with the Chinamen, she could yet boast some
good looks. At the present time, the girl is thin, pale,
and haggard. Her teeth, like those of all European
women who live with the Chinese, were rotting away,
and it was positively offensive to be near her.
* * •
The crumbling away —for this a fitting expres-
sion—of this unhappy girl, Mr. Seymour informed ns,
is solely due to the horrible condition of her
surroundings. As a matter of fact, these so-called
lodging-houses are nothing more nor less than
brothels of the lowest and most revolting description.
It is in these dens that vice and infamy are to be seen
in their most hideous phases—that crimes, the very
names of which are unknown to ordinary humanity—
are of daily occurrence. It is into these horrible haunts
that young girls are inveigled, tempted to smoke opium,
and ruined, —to be afterwards kept semi-stupifled, until
reduced to the lowest depths of human degradation.
And yet many of the persons who let out such “rook-
eries,” at exorbitant rents, with a full knowledge of the
uses to which they are put, are churchwardens and jus-
tices of the peace—men who would shudder at the oath
of an irate mechanic, and would use all their influ-
ence against the degrading sin of opening the Museum
on Sunday.
» • •
In the next house, in a kennel on the ground
floor —a place reeking with the odours of a slaughter-
house —we discovered a tall thin lady, with a black eye,
who was tending a wizened infant which lay in a con-
dition of torpor on one of the stretchers. On enquiring
of this charmer if she liked the society of Mongolians,
she replied with great readiness, “ I should think I did;”
and furthermore she explained the temporary discoloura-
tion of her dexter optic by informing us, with a knowing
wink, that she had “ tumbled agin the water-butt.”
Next door, we found a species of shop, the visible stock
consisting of a dozen wrinkled apples and two or three
bulbous oranges. Seated at the counter was the land-
lady—a dirty woman of some 50 autumns, clad in a
filthy hlaek gown, with her hair tied up with a
leather shoe-lace. Leaning over the counter was a
young woman, who from her appearance seemed to
have recently been living in a coal-mine. This sylph
was writing a letter from the other’s dictation.
We took a glance at the epistle, and found that it com-
menced—
“ Dere jane,—i take up my pen to rite opping you are
well at present thang gord.”
On Mr. Seymour putting some " leading” questions to
the fair amanuensis she exhibited some acerbity of
temper, and made a lengthy explanation to the effect
that (like Paul Pry) she was passing by and just looked
in—with the after clencher, that herjadvent was “ per-
miscuous.” After a great deal of questioning by Mr.
Seymour (who throughout was indefatigable in his
endeavours to elicit information for us) it was ascer-
tained that the shopwoman in question leased a
couple of houses, and farmed out the rooms to some 50
ar 60 Chinamen, these Celestials paying from 2s. 6d.
a head per week for the accommodation.
We have, it will be seen, touched so far upon only one
of the “ Dens of the Almond-eyed”—one small portion
only of our nocturnal flit with the gallant inspector and
his companions. It is impossible to embody in a single
article one tithe of the material at onr command, but
we shall make use of it in future sketches. In conclu-
sion we have only to call the attention of the public to
the fact that we have not taken advantage of the sud-
den influx of Chinese to describe a den when crowded by
immigrants, and therefore rendered doubly hideous,
but we preferred to wait until the new arrivals
had departed, and were (unhappy fact!) absorbed into
the community, before commencing our inspection of
these bagnios. We have therefore described Clay’s
buildings, not as they appear under exceptional circum-
stances ; but we have shown our readers the dens as
they always have been, always are, and always will be,
until the curse which is now becoming insupportable is
purged from out the land.
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman are to sell Fowler’s
Farm, at Campbelltown, to-day (Saturday). A big
result anticipated.


FIREWORK
FIREWORKS ! F
PUBLIC NOT
The undersigns;
POINTED SOLE AGEN;
ATLAS BRAND PRIZE ]
WORKS, manufactured by tl
taring Company (Limited), Py
Majesty the Queen and the
ment.
MYERS an
These JUSTLY CELEBEAT]
which have now been before the
twenty years, are NOW ON SALE
To meet the increasing demand fo
day. we have imported 100,000 G
ATLAS BRAND FIREWORKS. c
which will be sold at Is. 9d. and 2s.
ROYAL ATLAS B
PRIZE LONDON FI
MYERS AND S
Sole Wholesale A
SQUIBS
PIN WHEELS
BLUE DEVII
GOLD]
BLUE CANDLES
CHINESE TEEES
FLOWEE I
DO
PEINCE OP WALES' F
Is. 9d. per gross
The above Ten Kinds, Double Size
same assortment as abc
superior.
TEIPLE SIZE, Bs. per gross,
! and Eoman Candles.
THEOW-DOWN CRACKEES, i
x Gross, 4s. per box.
FIEE BALLOOI
65., 125., 245., 365., and 60t
CHINESE PIREW
- CHINESE CEACKEES, 40 packet
iEXTEA SUPEEIOE CHINESE (
40 packets in box, red box, 6f
Tom Thumb Chinese Crackers, 40
strings in packet, 6s. per doz
'CHINESE GUNS, extra superior
Bs, dozen packets
Serpents
Rliia Tiicrhfa
I
F
MAE T I N
AUSTEALIAN WINE M
AND BEER BOX':
105 PITT STEEI
SYDNEY,
LIST OF WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 14s i
ALBURY WIN!
RED.
Petit Yerdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbec
HUNTER RIVER V
Claret
Lamb ru scat
J.
PORT MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
MEN
BELMOEE HOU
205 Pitt-dtreet,
THE
£Jitt (Catering
315 GEORGE STE
LATE
"HAEEIS'" CAFE, Opposite
Are now prepared to undertake
Management of Balls, Banquets,
Parties, Picnics, Tea Meetings, I
on the shortest notice and most rej
Among the waiters attending w
favourites, and civility and attentic
The Gentlemens Caf>s and Eesta
Ladies Eefreshment Eooms, wiil b<
HAS. R. g
MAN AGEE.
JjIALLON’S PRIZE AI
J. T. FALLON’S in asking pul
WINES, and to the awards gaine
intimate that he holds very large st
and the public may rely upon gett:
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depo'
91 PITT STEEET, S’
Vineyard :
MUEEAY EFVEE VALLEY,
NEW SOUTH WJ
These Wines were awarded flrst-<
following Exhibitions;—
London International
Paris ~
SINGER’S SEWING
THE
s
MANUFACTUI
Have opened a De
s
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DA
HARBOUR STI
8
INGBR’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List se
8
INGER’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOL
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of ni
SINGER’S, THE BEST
Have received 160 First!
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
8
INGER’S, BEST FOR
SINGER’S MEDIUM MAC
8
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d.
INGER’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 IS
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No additior
8
8
8
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOI
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
IN G EE’S SEWING
HAND OR TREA
INGER’S. The BEST. Th
MACHINE—Light to Work,
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6
8
8
8
8
INGER’S, THE BEST
LEARN. New Improvement
8
8
8
INGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
INGEE’S, THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and hi
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
INGER’S THE BEST andh
Will last a lifetime in cc
INGEE’S SEWING
ADDRESS : T 1
INGER MANUPACTURI
‘ No. 1 DARLING STORES, Haj
gINGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymai
have been appointed agents fo
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for ca
SINGER’S SEWING M
SINGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
EMEMBER, THERE IS <
GER MACHINE. See th
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S MACHINES.—J
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
INGER’S MACHINES.—B
Cast iron imitations. Onlj
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
INGER’S SEWING MACH
ments with the Singer (
INGER’S SEWING MAC
cent, discount for cash, or on
i*i)N E Y. —From TUENEB
GEORGE STREET, opposite
INGEE’S SEWING MACHI
but 160 FIRST PRI
8
8
PRIZE “I VAN HOE”
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
PARIS EXPOSITION, 1878.
TWO FIRST PRIZES
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL.
DINNER WINES,
LIGHT and DRY.
10/. PER DOZEN.
BURGUNDY
RIESLING J
> 21/- per dozen.
“ Dnnk no longer water,
but use a' little wine for
thy stomach’s sake and
thine often infirmities.”
—1 Tim. v. 23.
" Wine maketh glad the
heart of man.”
—Ps. civ. 15.
■
Ivanlioe Vineyard,*) G. H. STEPHEN & C(
Hunter River, jSYDNEY DEPOT — I 3 BrIDGI
ALLAN A. MARSHALL i
BRASS FOUNDERS AND ]
COPPERSMITHS, GASFITTERS, AND GET
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBING WORK IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. BRASS WO
IMPORTERS OP


SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
Single-furrow Ploughs. We have the largest assortment o
requirements of every district. Farmers, write us for information. P
HORNBY’S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
New Pattern Ploughs, Just brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
RA.NSO3
BlfCSf
and 3. Th
We invite
infoi
HARROWS—Zh
We recommend BOWARI
have other makes, some of w
B«was4'§
Zigzag
Barrows.
Oar Stock of Harrows includ
sizes. 1
Nos.
Width i
Weight 1
389 GEORGE STREET,
Blacket and
119 BATHUEST STREET, SYI
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS
Sole Agents foe Messrs. Tanqtb Beds
w
w
H
DQ
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND LEEIGATIN
Engines and Boilers of all si:
Jack Ceabs, Cranes, Bellows, Po
IN STOCK.
EY £ S
PERFECT
PURI
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest An
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey: Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for hous<
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Wodlnough,, 1
for my throat I could not desire anything more effecth
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sy
equal as a disinfectant and purifier.' From J. L. Newtoi
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney: —My child had sore eyes for 2}
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and frni
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sy
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
BATHS.
139 and 111 OXFORD STREET, op]
p j? a rr hit n at. tj a ti> nn
Miscellaneous
Q LIE FORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTEI
EASTERN AND COi
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignment!
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qu&litie
Do. Indian Prize Med
CHUTNIES—Indian Prii
PRESERVES—Indian Pi
COFFEE —Plantation No
Do. „ Pei
Do. „ No
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pi
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Eli
OFFICES 79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B 1
IMPOETEE OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswr
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric I
Butchers’ Brine Pn
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &<
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEET,
JOHN
D
PlTfsrlm
BEAUTIFUL,, at
OR
ALLWOOL Jflgk
To TWEED m
Miscellanec
TJEISCOE, DRYSD
397 George St
76, 78, 145, 147 Yoe
33 Pitt Ste;
IRONMONGERS, IRONME
IMPORTS!
Invite attention to their ester
which besides being the largest i
varied; and comprises all the lat
Engines Engineers’ Material
Agricultural Implements, T
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material,
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lam
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chai
Brass Foundry, Locks, B
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, (
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Eope, Boiled J
And
GENERAL IRONM
ILLJSX
W
urn
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4loa
S. H E B B L E 1
416 GEOEGE ST
MERICAN MACHI
H. P. GREGORY
No. 11, PITT-STI
Importers of all Desc
MACHI]
Have for Sah
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special
Machinery—Sydney Exhibit!'
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pu
Eubber and Leather Belting, Eav
tucks packing round and squt
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —F<
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oi
quality quabanteed, &c., &c.
Send for Circulars ai
KING STREET S
