

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4—No. 49.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 1, 1881.
Price—3d.
SATURDA :, JANUARY 1, 1881.
Young Australia.
It is about time that Young Australia commenced
to assume the management of his own affairs.
His state of tutelage has lasted more than long
enough. He has too many uncles, too many
self-constituted trustees. In this colony, wrang-
ling over the management of Young Australia’s
affairs has been perpetual—the mutual dislikes of
the wranglers have been allowed to intrude to
such a degree that the interests of the ward have
been made subordinate to struggles for predomi-
nance and wreaking of vengeance with which
Young Australia has no concern whatever. Eor
nearly twenty ypars public business has been
made secondary to the see-saw of factions.
Powerful busy-bodies have found such absorbing
occupation for their talents and energies in
scheming how to deprive each other of the
control of Young Australia’s fortunes, that it
has only been by chance and at odd times
that they have been able to devote their faculties
to attend to his actual business at all. Parkes
very possibly loves his country after his own
fashion. Robertson doubtless does the same.
But one has only to review the public history of
both these leaders to learn that neither of them
has given half the devotion to the country that he
has to baulking the other. Imagination faints at
the conception of either Parkes or Robertson
being content to remain, with resolute self-denial,
in the cold shades of unofficial station, striving
with singleness of purpose to assist the other in
fostering the prosperity and quickening the pro-
gress of the young community which they had
both undertaken to guide. In one of Dickens’
minor tales, “ George Silverman’s explana-
tion,” there is a sketch of two rival tradesmen
who have acquired a knowledge of the affairs of
an orphan entitled to property. For a long
while each exerts all his ingenuity to
prevent the other from profiting by the
information. In the end, however, it dawns
upon them that each knows too much of the
other’s schemes and processes to make separate
action possible, and they go into partnership, with
the orphan’s affairs as an understood item in their
joint assets. The reader may judge whether a
simple-minded devotion to their ward was the
impulse which governed their course. The elec-
tions, just terminated in the assembling of a Legis-
lative Assembly more burdened with nobodies
than any which has preceded it, were notoriously
conducted on issues which have no interest for
Young Australia. From first to last the struggle
has, in the main, been between sects which in
their origin are as exotic as Bathurst burr or
phylloxera, and in their influence quite as noxious.
Young Australia has practical business which de-
mands the utmost concentration of energy, the
utmost singleness of purpose. It is a treason
against his interests, an embezzlement of his rights
that the vigour which should be devoted exclu-
sively to his advantage should be dissipated
in struggles for sectarian objects which are
merely obstructions to his affairs. That the
attention of the legislators should bo distracted
from the genuine requirements of a young com-
munity by fanciful differences in points of belief
is a crime. That the country should be inveighed
into choosing its representatives in reference to
inessential issues is a trick which young Australia
should never forget and never condone. What to
Young Australia is the significance of the Orange
or of the Green ? William or Orange did not
emancipate Australians. The Pope of Rome has
not oppressed them. Australia has no bitter
memories of alternating cruel domination, no
savage traditions of ineffaceable wrongs. And,
once for all, young Australia objects to the
imported article. He wants practical government.
He needs [roads and bridges, efficient land-laws,
equitable taxation, economical expenditure, first
rate financing, railways, water-supply, and a hun-
dred helps to industrial development. He wants
his grand estate reclaimed and made productive
with the utmost despatch and in the best way. And
to effect that he requires capable,clear-headed men,
and has aright to resent the impertinence of having
thrust upon him sleek-bodied incapables, chosen
because they are servile slaves of a Pope, or paltry
tools of a conventicle. The late elections were
orgies of exotic sectarian organisations. The
Orange and the Catholic cliques trotted out their
men, and, as a rule, the electors had to choose
one or the other. But the action of both cliques
was the sheerest usurpation. In reality, their
numbers are not so considerable as to entitle them
to share dominion in Australia. Between them,
and apart from both, stand the great body of the
Australians, sympathising with neither and quite
competent to turn the scale against either. But
these have not organised. They exist in scattered
units. Discouraged by isolation, they have never
realised their strength. It is time, we say, to
remedy this. Young Australia—that is, all men
who regard practical government and equal rights
as of an importance supreme over personal aims
and sectarian ambitions —must organise. When
next the country is called upon to choose repre-
sentatives, Young Australia must be in the field
with candidates of his own choice —men of mark,
men of brains, men of nerve and progressive
instincts. When that is effected, Australian
progress will really begin, and practical legislation
will take the place of petty tinkering to repair the
neglect of years wasted in the see-saw of parties
undistinguished by principle or purpose. As far
as religious liberty goes. Young Australia will be
master of the situation. He will use the
Protestant bigots to repress undue cravings for
authority on the part of Papists, and will use the
Papists to restrain effectively the shameful claim
for Protestant “ascendancy” which Sir Henry
Parkes has not blushed to advance. Young
Australia’s motto will be Equality, not
ascendancy.
The Honorable Patrick Higgins, M.L.C.
Should the history of industrial enterprise in
this colony be ever fairly and fully written, the
names and deeds of certain individuals of our own
and of a past generation will assuredly “ illumine
the leaves.” The pioneer squatter, the intrepid
miner, the far-seeing promoter of mercantile insti-
tutions, and the judicious employer of labor and
capital will be strongly represented by typical men
—each in his own sphere ‘ ‘ the foremost man of all
his time.” Three names, illustrative of the truth
of this assertion, will at once flash on the minds
of many readers; namely, those of James Tyson,
who snatched the fortune of a millionaire in less
than twenty years from three wildernesses, Edward
Hammond Hargreaves, hurrying back from Cali-
fornia to discover an El Dorado at Lewis Ponds,
near Bathurst, and Thomas Holt, founding with
older but not wiser men than he a world-renowned
Mutual Provident Life Association and a couple of
banks. Let us add another name to this array—that
of the subject of this notice, Mr. Patrick Higgins,
who, as a contractor, stands out with singular
individuality from all others engaged in the same
pursuit. Why ? Because he rose to pre-eminence
solely by his own forethought, ability, industry,
and (though last, not least) his indomitable per-
severance, without receiving any adventitious aids
whatever. He is truly “ the architect of his own
fortune,” inasmuch as chance or luck —the good
genius of the forest or the gnome of the mine—
never laid the foundations of his success. He
probably spends more pounds monthly in acts of
charity and beneficence than he had shillings
twenty-eight years ago, when he arrived in Mel-
bourne. On a farm, near the romantically-situated
town of Sligo, in the north-west of Connaught,
the subject of this notice was born, in the year
1825. His surroundings in youth, while a student
at the Sligo Academy—a classical and commercial
school, conducted by an able mathematician —
must have deeply impressed his mind, if we can
accept Mr. Inglis, an Englishman, as an accurate
word-delineator of scenery. “ The day I left
Sligo,” he writes, “ I ascended a considerable hill
called ‘ the Cairns,’ at a short distance from the
town, and enjoyed a prospect from it which is not
often commanded from higher elevations —a beau-
tiful lake, dotted with islands, fringed with wood,
and its banks adorned by fine country seats and
extensive lawns ; a broad river running from the
lake through rich, green, shaded, and picturesque
country, a bay of the sea, with magnificent
mountain boundaries, and beyond the great
ocean itself ; a town, with its massive buildings
and ancient remains, and a wide, undulating,
richly-wooded, and picturesque country, with many
villages, villas, and cottages, such is the assem-
blage of objects which form the prospect from the
elevation before-mentioned.” In this charming
locality Mr. Higgins spent his youth. Not caring
for farming pursuits he became connected with
road-contracts, as a clerk at first, but afterwards
on his own account. The news of the gold-dis-
covery in Australia awakened in him a desire to
seek a wider field of enterprise than his own
province afforded ; he accordingly immigrated to
Australia in 1852, and arrived at Melbourne, his
destination, where he started as contractor for a
section of the Mount Alexander high-road, and
followed up his first work by other sections. He
was engaged in the formation of this and other
highways for five years, when he turned his at-
tention and his acquired capital to railway con-
tracts, the first of these being the suburban line
from Melbourne, via Windsor, to Hawthorn
(1856). He next grappled with the Melbonrne-
Echuca line, running through the gold regions of
Sandhurst, which was one of his greatest under-
takings on the Victorian side. In 1866 he arrived
in Sydney, and contracted for the Lithg ow portion
of the Zigzag, which he finished in three years
(within contract time). This was his last great
undertaking in New South Wales. Mr. Higgins
married, in 1855, the daughter of Mr. John Lynch,
Sligo, and had an only son, a promising boy, who
at a tender age, became a pupil of St. Stanislaus 5
College, Bathurst, where he exhibited, up to his six-
teenth year, great vigor of intellect and a refined
taste. His father arranged to take him to Europe
(in 1872) to finish his education ; but unfortu-
nately, on their way to Melbourne, this youth of
many bright hopes accidentally fell overboard and
was drowned. His premature fate, like that
similar one that wrung from the heart of Milton
the poetic wail of “ Lycidas,” not only prostrated
the lather with griet (the poor boy’s mother was
mercifully removed from earth before the sad
mishap), but affected all who knew him—students
and tutors —with sincere and profound sorrow.
During a three years’ tour in Europe and America)
Mr. Higgins overcame the first shock of his be-
reavement, and roused himself to the performance
of his duty as a useful member of society. He
closely observed the progress of events in Spain,
France, Italy, Germany, Russia, and America)
and returned to Australia, via San Francisco, in
1876, his mind stored with information of various
kinds—political, industrial, scientific, and social.
With the capital he had accumulated, he speculated
with his usual success—the result of forethought-
in pastoral property on the Lachlan and ihe
Murray, near Eohuca. He was also a promoter of
the Lithgow Valley Coal Co., being, in fact, one
of the three who first started that speculation.
They took up 1700 acres of coal land, on which
large sums have been expended in the successful
development of the mine. The manufacture of
bricks, earthenware-pipes, and pottery of all sorts
has also been established at Lithgow, and gives
employment to a large number of workmen.
Although Mr. Higgins never sought for a single
public honour—he is too robust mentally as well
as physically to toady to an Imperial Minister of
State, much less to the colonial article—still
honours came pretty steadily to him. He was
k made a magistrate of Victoria in 185*, of N.S.W.
in 1867, a commissioner of the International
Exhibition 1879, and of the Melbourne LB. of this
year as one of the representatives of Sydney. On
the 10th of this month (December) he was called
to the Legislative Council, where he is sure to
prove a thoughtful, watchful, and punctual
member of the Upper House. We have now
given a bare outline of the facts of his career in
this country. They speak for themselves, and
would be distorted by any comments from an
interpreter. We have had great and good men
amongst the immigrants of the last thirty years.
There is not one of them more respected
and better appreciated than Mr. Patrick
Higgins.
THE HONORABLE PATRICK HIGGINS, M.L.C.


Sanderson’s Podophyllin Lozenges for all bilious
complaints, indigestion, &c. They impart tone and
vitality to the whole system, removing morbid and sic*
headache, giddiness, shooting pains, and nervous affec-
tions, and in all cases of liver complaints, indigestion
and costiveness, speedy relief is insured. Parents will
find Randerson’s lozenges very useful where children
are requiring a mild aperient. There is no disagreeable
taste, and all the little members of the human family
prefer lozenges to pills. Try them. Sold by all
chemists, Is. a box. Edward Bow and Co., proprietors.
Sydney.— Adtt.
The Art Society's Exhibition.
Thj Art Society of New South Wales has reason to be
pleased with the success of its first Exhibition. Bearing
in mind the comparatively short period which has
elapsed since the idea was first originated, it must be
acknowledged that wonders have been accomplished
towards bringing together an attractive and meri-
torious collection of works *f Art, which reflects great
credit both on the artists and on the President and
Council, whose energetic and praiseworthy efforts
have, we are happy to observe, been crowned with
success. Landscape forms the principal feature, but
brilliant glimpses of fruit and flowers here and there
refresh the eye, making a bright and pleasing contrast
to what might otherwise have proved a monotony of
subject. Mr. W. C. Piguenit sends a number of works,
all more or less interesting in subject and skillful in
treatment. The largest of these, No. 89, "Sydney
Harbour, from the North Shore," is a fine painting,
bold and forcible in colour, hut the effect of the whole
picture would have been considerably heightened by
deeper and more varied tints in the sky. No. 71, “On
the Hobart Town Eivulet,” is a delightful specimen of
Tasmanian scenery; and a smaller design. No. 82, "On
the Nepean,” is chiefly remarkable for the limpid
clearness of the water. No. 10, “ Trinity Falls, Govett’s
Leap Valley,” in which a graceful lyre bird, standing
on the stones over which flow cascades of sparkling
water, occupies a prominent position, is also an elegant
little picture. No. 21, “ The Evening Glow of a Sum-
mer’s Sun,” by Mr. J. Gibb, is effective at a distance,
but will not bear near inspection, as the water, when
closely observed, has a hard and painty appearance.
No. 22, “Evening,” by Mr. E. W. Minchen, is indeed
carefully rendered; the trees and distance are very
natural. No. 40, “ Fig Tree Wharf, Lane Cove,” by
Mr. Q. Collingridge, though rather rough as a whole, is
admirable as regards the trees and reflections; and No.
38, “ Katie’s Creek, Lane Cove,” the work of Mr. A.
Collingridge, is remarkably natural, a clump of water
plants in the foreground being especially good. No.
68, “ An Australian Sunset,” by Mr. C. H. Hunt, bears
evidence of artistic talent, in its clear bold color and
forcible painting; when finished it will make a fine
picture. No. 85, “ Botanic Gardens Scene,” by Mr. S.
Henry, is painted with almost microscopic minute-
ness ; the willows and other foliage are most care-
fully worked out, but the picture is singularly
devoid of brightness, and though evidently intended
to represent broad daylight, no sunshine has been
allowed to cast its radiance over the scene. Figure
painting is but slightly represented in the present Ex-
hibition ; a few specimens are to be seen, however, in
one of these. No. 99, “The Chinese Question," by Mr.
C. H. Hunt. Two men are absorbed in an animated
discussion on this topic of public interest; the faces
of the two are very amusing, and characteristically
painted, while the expression of the dog, as it hastily
disposes of some evidently stolen choice morsel, is
likewise provocative of laughter. The other figure
picture is No. 78, “Ophelia," by Mrs. Alfred Williams.
The fair unfortunate lady is represented standing upon
the “ envious silver," the breaking of which is so soon
to precipitate her into the cold, dark water beneath.
The figure is remarkable for the easy grace of its
attitude, and the face for its touching expression of
innocence and pathetic unconsciousness. Theaccuracy
of the willows, the realistic painting and elegant
arrangement of the flowers, and the chilly depth of the
water, in which is reflected grass so real that it almost
seems to spring upon the banks before the eye, are
proofs of the strict adherence both to nature and art,
so strikingly manifested in this most attractive and
original design. The depths and intensity of color in
the surrounding foliage is very characteristic of a
closely wooded grove, over which the shades of even-
ing are already beginning to fall. Mrs. Williams also
contributes four other paintings, charming groups of
flowers, and one fruit picture. No. 23; the centre of
this is occupied by an elegant basket, from which fall in
juicy abundance bunches of beautiful black and white
grapes, while the transparent lusciousness of some
fine plums must prove irresistable to every lover of
fruit. Water colors occupy a considerable space in the
Exhibition; No. 132, “Old Man Eeck Moreaki George,
N.Z.," by Mr. J. C. Hoyte, and No. 145, “ Tutoko Peak,
Holyford Valley, Otago. N.Z." are both elaborate and
effective paintings of N.Z. scenery; and No. 135, “Long
Bay, Middle Harbour,” is also highly finished and
strikingly natural. In No. 120, “ English Bramble and
Butterflies,” by Mr. C. Whitley, an excellently painted
“ Ked Admiral” forms the chief attraction. No. 159,
“ Portrait of a Lady,” by Mrs. Soddort, is very com-
mendable, and No. 107, “ Australian Flowers,” by Mrs.
Miller, No. 148, “ The Wreck,” by Mr. W. Andrews, and
numerous others which space will not permit ns’to
allude more fully to at present, are most meritorious
specimens of water color painting.
NOTES FROM THE BLUE BOOK.
Sir Alfred Stephen’s Pension is .£1,400 per
annum.
Sir E. Deas-Thompson received ,£2,000 per
annum. Total, £48,000.
Mr. Henry Halloran, C.M.G., the poet, and late
Under-Secretary, has a pension of £BOO per annum.
The income of the Rector of St. John’s College,
the Very Rev. Wm. Gillet, is about £1,500 per annum.
Mr. F. L. S. Merowether, late Auditor-General,
N.S.W., receives a pension of £9OO per annum. Total
up to present time, £21,600.
Dr. Badham’s income from the University is
about £1,500 per annum. Professor Smith, M.L.C.,
C.M.Q., and Professors Gurney and Liversidge, receive
about £l,OOO each per annum from the same source.
The income of Mr. Weigall, Head Master of the
Sydney Grammar School, is about £1,500 per annum,
and the second master, Mr. Pratt, receives about
£l,OOO in school fees and salary. The first classical
master, Mr. Whitfield, has £6OO a year.
The oldest pensioner on the N.S.W. Govern-
ment is Lady Forbes, widow of the first and greatest
of our Chief Justices. The venerable lady has received
her small allowance of £2OO per annum since Novem-
ber 9,1841. Sir Francis Forbes was the best friend on
the Bench to the Press the colony ever knew. To him
we are indebted for the liberty of the Press when
Governor Darling, another tyrant like , tried to
gag it.
. The Engineer -in - Chief for Railways, John
Whitton, receives aboat £2,000 per annum ; the Chief
Commissioner for Railways, C. A. Goodchap, £l,OOO per
annum; and the Locomotive Engineer, C. H. Burnett,
£l,OBO per annum. The salary of the Engineer for
Harbours and Rivers, E. O. Moriarty, is slightly under
£1,200 per annum. The Surveyor-General for N.S.W.,
P. F. Adams, receives £l,lOO per annum; his deputy,
R. D. Fitzgerald, gets £9OO per annum.
Thompson’s Mirror of the Zulu War is doing a
big business at Newcastle.
The second annual meeting of the N.S.W.
Rowing Association takes place this evening at Aarons’
Exchange Hotel.
At Levuka, the other day, on the arrival of the
Governor, a big triumphal arch bore the inscription,
“ Welcome to our Governor 1”
Professor Rice, the mind-reader, assisted by
Percy Stuart and a Golburn amateur (Mr. S. D. Mac-
gowan) gave an entertainment in the Mechanics’
Institute hall, Qoulburn, last week. The Professor’s
mind-reading was highly successful and was the main
attraction. The audience was large and most fashion-
able.
We have noticed, so far as our space will allow,
the various amusements of the current week. So great,
however, are the increasing demands upon our columns
that we have been compelled to defer notices of the
pantomimes and of the performance at the Royal until
our next issue. MissDeakin’s concert and Mr. Miller’s
assault at arms will also receive our best attention.
The Modern High School, Bourke-street, Moore
Park, broke up for the Christmas holidays on Wednes-
day evening, 22nd ultimo. This school appears to have
done good work during the year at the University
Examinations, and the reports of the Examiners’ (Dr.
Beg, M.D., LL.D., and Mr, Cathol, 8.A.), on the
educational status of the school have been very
favorable.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Matrimonial epidemic at Balmain. Four mar-
riages shortly.
Two Balmain heiresses, encumbered with
£lO,OOO each, not engaged.
Tiny golden sheep and pigs are among the
latest novelties in the form of pendants for necklaces.
A well-known Adelaide pressman will, it is said,
shortly marry the sister of an ex-Colonial Treasurer of
N.S.W.
“Tiger-plush” is a new material for trimming-
hats, which are also ornamented with real tiger and
leopard claws.
The handsomest member of the Sydney Rowing
Club is engaged to a very pretty Melbourne widow, who
was lately on a visit here.
A juvenile party took place last Thursday
at Kirribilli Point, where a splendid Christmas tree
charmed the hearts of the little ones.
Mr. G. Stack, son of the late Rev. Canon Stack,
is to be married shortly. The immediate cause is Miss
Jaques, daughter of the ex-Registrar-General.
Mr. Bailey, of cricketing celebrity, is to be
married next month to a beautiful and highly-accom-
plished lady residing in Davey-street, Hobart.
Mr. John Gardyne, one of the most popular of
Sydney bachelors, has persuaded a young lady to
“ name the day,” and she has fixed it for February.
A well-known insurance-manager, of Gresham-
street, is engaged to a handsome young lady recently
arrived from England. The marriage will take place
next month.
Rumour says that there is an engagement pend-
ing between an official in the new bank in Pitt-street
and the charming petite blue-eyed daughter of a well-
known stationer.
Rev. S. C. Kent, formerly well-known Con-
gregationalist minister of Newtown, Sydney, now
Church of England minister at Melbourne, is about to
take unto himself a wife for —the third time.
A marriage is arranged and will shortly take
place between Mr. Hector Munro and Miss Annie
Evans, daughter of the popular Balmain medico. A
sister of Miss Evans is also engaged.
A great want of gallantry was displayed on
Christmas Eve by the young gentlemen of North Shore,
through which the greater part of the decorations of a
pretty little church had to be left upside down on the
lawn.
Ladies in the highest circles have adopted the
idea of having their coats of arms beautifully em-
broidered, or painted in water colours on the strings of
their bonnets, the crowns of which are also covered
with elaborate designs.
Electric jewellery is one of the new sensations.
Little batteries, fixed in the hair or dress, are made to
communicate with brooches, tiaras, and similar orna-
ments, and by lighting up each jewel with a tiny electric
flame n novel and brilliant effect is produced.
It is said that a dashing follower of Esculapius,
resident at Camden, and well known for his national
love of horseflesh, is about to lead to the altar the
eldest daughter of the departed scion of a well-known
Sydney family, chiefly remarkable for their legal pro-
clivities.
Mr. Donnelly Fisher, of the firm of M'Carthy,
Robertson, and Fisher, solicitors, and son of the late
Mr. T. J. Fisher, barrister-at-law, was married on the
22nd Dec. to the widow of Staff-Commander Gowlland, :
who was drowned in Port Jackson some years ago. (
The lady is the daughter of the Hon. Francis Lord, |
M.L.G. *
Not satisfied with painting scarves, chess- •
trimmings, and such articles, ladies are now beginning
to paint their own buttons. China buttons, with tiny <
landscapes, flowers, and other designs, with brooches
and ornaments to match, are now becoming fashion-
able. Long gloves are also hand-painted on the backs
and round the tops.
The little Spanish princess has been gives,
among a long list of others, the name of Mercedes, in
rememberance of the former Queen. The surroundings
of this royal baby are magnificent, as befits her high
station ; her cradle is composed of rosewood, richly
decorated with blue satin and gold, and her attendants
wear for ordinary occasions costumes composed of blue
velvet and silver, varied on gala days by crimson velvet
trimmed with gold fringe.
At Needs’ ball, on the 22nd Dec., the daughter
of an Oxford-street tradesman was the prettiest girl
present, as “ Germaine” in the “ Belles of Corneville.”
A tall, vivacious lady was the “ Goddess of the Sea,”
beautifully attired in false sea-green, with shades of
light blue, festooned with real seaweed and strings of
shells. A “ Scotch Lassie ” from Surry Hills danced
perfectly. Two well-known sisters from Crown-street —
one as the “ Duchess of Gainsborough,” the other in a
dress of Charles the Second’s Court—were splendidly
dressed, and much admired. A “ Gipsy ” from
Darlinghurst, and another from Redfern, were very
charming. A small sprightly damsel from Albion-street
in heliotrope, was a picture. The handsomest evening
dress in the room was a sumptuous costume of satin in
old gold and ruby.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Great banquet to Forster.
Two electoral petitions out of 108 elections.
A new general election is confidently predicted
in 1881. '
The electoral rolls will be again taken next
month.
The Electoral Act admits of wilful and corrupt
practices.
When a man gets astride a political fence rail-
ings come from both sides.
“ The Devil and the Governor” over again, only
Parkes will be “the Governor.”
All the returns are now in for the Bourke
electorate. Barton polled 738, Olliffe 566.
Government say Mr. Clarke, member for Orange,
is a sphinx—they can’t make him out. John Davies
says he is an “ henigma.”
A temperance candidate, who ran in a South
Coast Coast constituency, “ shouted " at one time 138
“nobblers.” “Dick,” a Ternra celebrity, was the
medium.
It is not unlikely that more than one of the
newly-elected members of the Assembly will soon be
ousted from his seat in consequence of having to go to
the Deffell.
The country press condemn all but two of the
of the new appointments to the Upper House.
“ Refuge to the destitute ” —The Consolation
Stakes” —“the forlorn hope,” &c., are the modest
terms used.
What was the name of the man in Parliament
who cleared £20,000 out of the coal lands transaction
in the Shoalhaven district? A gigantic job has
been perpetrated, and an M.P. and some smart Mel-
bourne schemers have become enriched at the expense
of this colony.
They say the Nowra bridge, costing over
£lOO,OOO, is a big bungle. Of course it was intended to
connect it with a big politician’s coal-field. Cylinders
shouldn’t sink four feet in twenty-four hours. Nor is
it nice to see a party of engineers camped out at night
watching the cylinders, to see that they don’t dis-
appear altogether. Big row in Parliament, sure.
Jem Fullford said at Maitland the other day,
that he “aspired to the position of Colonial Treasurer.
His great speciality was figures, and the position was
one which would suit him particularly.” James may
‘aspire,’ but he will also * perspire ’ a lot before he be-
comes the holder of a portfolio in any Ministry. There
are besides so many ‘ aspiring ’ people—N ini an Melville,
Abigail, Andy Lynch, and so on.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Victorian Parliament prorogued.
Rockhampton, a town of only 6000 inhabitants,
possesses two good daily newspapers.
Shnttleworth and Co., machinery merchants, of
Melbourne, fined £lOOO for defrauding the Customs.
A fire occurre.d at Mr. S. Plummer’s, draper, of
Oxford-street, on Sunday night. The damage wo*
slight.
M'Gulgour’s party, of Bermagui, have sent to
Bega 22 lbs. weight of gold. Several claims are on good
washdirt.
The report that the wife and servant girl of Mr.
John Lonergan had been killed by blacks at Jundah was
a pure fabrication.
Staunton’s Tattersall’s Hotel, at Terarra, is
now the attraction of the district for commercial
travellers and visitors.
Kelly’s Comedy-Opera Company are now per-
forming at Rockhampton in “ Pinafore” and the “ Rose
of Auvergne” to good business. Liddy, manager.
The population at Wantrool diggings, near
Junee, is increasing daily. Payable washdirt, averaging
from 7dwt. to 15dwt to the load, has been struck in
several cases.
In the United States much “champagne” is
made of rhubarb juice and cider. The only genuine
champagne made in the States is produced in California,
principally near San Francisco.
TheMagdala Company, Stawell (Vic.), are going
to put the diamond-drill down from their deepest level
to a distance of 3000 ft. —by far the greatest depth yet
attained in Australasia.
James Maloney, a cab driver, tried to stop the
tram with his vehicle on Boxing Day. The cab was
upset and smashed, and Maloney, who was thrown
violently, was much bruised and shaken.
The Age gives statistics to show that New
South Wales in 1873, had an expenditure of £2,333,000
which was raised in 1879 to £5,839,000, or in other words
more than double its former amount by one half in seven
years.
2,200 men and women are employed by the
Government of New South Wales at the present time
teaching the Young Idea how to shoot. These 2,200
are at present enjoying three weeks’ holiday—well
earned.
The principal members of Lyster’s Opera Co.
opened to good business at Goulbnm, on Boxing Night,
in “ Madame Angot.” They are also doing “Maritana”
and other operas. The local papers speak highly of
their performance.
The works of the N.S.W. Fish Company
(limited) at Port Stephens are. almost complete, as is
also the city depot in Pitt-streec. Both establishments
are fitted with refrigerating machinery of the most
approved description.
The various wards of the Sydney Infirmary were
suitably decorated for the Christmas season. Good
idea of the nurses, who, by the way, are always very
attentive to the patients, and exhibit unusul adapta-
bility to their profession.
On Friday the Sydney mail train was two hours
late in arriving at Gerogery. Seven coach-loads of
passengers arrived at Albury, all too late to catch the
Wodonga train. They engaged a special train to go on
to Melbourne, at a cost of £7O.
On Boxing Day 23,000 persons were carried by
the tram to Randwick racecourse and back. On the
Redfern line between 7000 and 8000 persons were carried
on the same day. On Christmas Day the number carried
on the two lines was over 18,000.
Ebenezer Douglas Dunlop, an old Yass settler,
died suddenly on Sunday morning last, after drinking a
glass of whisky. His wife has been arrested on suspicion
of having poisoned him. The deceased’s stomach has
been forwarded to Sydney for analysis.
Miss Myra Kemble is in Sydney, and is about
taking her farewell for the present of the Sydney pub-
lic. She has accepted an engagement from the finish
of pantomime until May, as leading lady at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne, and from May till the end of Octo-
ber, at the Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
It is alleged by a Boston paper that Imogene,
whose troubles in Sydney will be remembered by our
readers, is the wife of John A. Woodward, who recently
relieved the Hub City Treasury of £16,400. Her maiden
name was Amy Louise Knowlton. Imogene was ar-
rested in Boston on the 21st as an accomplice in the
defalcation, and held in £2,500 bail.
Some scoundrel tried to wreck the machinery of
the Hoffman Brick Co. of Brunswick, near Melbourne, by
placing an iron bar in a large cog-wheel. However, the
obstruction was fortunately discovered before the
engine was set in motion. A man who was recently
dismissed from the works for drunkenness has been
arrested and charged with the offence.
A splendid collection of pianos may be seen at
Mr. Huenerbein’s new establishment, 411 George-street,
near Lassetter’s. The Huenerbeins were about the
first to introduce the staunch iron-framed German
pianos to this colony, and the collection now shown
not only includes these celebrated makes, but also
the best English, French, and American instruments.g
Mr. Flint, business manager of Boyd’s photo-
graphic gallery, was accidentally shot on Monday at
Nattai, while out shooting with some friends. The
deceased was known as a talented and genial young
fellow and an accomplished linguist. He was well
connected in England, and had no relatives here. The
unfortunate gentleman received a charge of shot in the
breast, and died a few minutes afterwards.
Lodge Pythagoras, N.S.W. Constitution, is a
model one. An enthusiastic Mason, Bro. Kean, was the
projector, two years ago. A great meeting was held on
the 22nd ult., when the lodge was honored by a visit
from the M.W., Grandmaster Parnell, and his officers.
A large number of candidates were initiated, and after-
wards a banquet was held, at which excellent speeches
were made and songs given.
The other day the black tracker at Gongolgon
was sent out to look after two blackfellows who had
stolen money from a drover. The tracker’s body has
since been found near Tarrion, in an advanced state of
discomposition, his revolver and handcuffs having been
taken away. He had been killed by a blow in the head
with a tomahawk. The two blackfellows are supposed
to have murdered him and to have then made tracks
for the Queensland border.
Two remarkable owlets (says the Gundagai
Times) were taken out of a nest at Tumnt Plains the
other day. Though they are infants, their size is
simply immense; their legs, as thick as broom handles,
coupled with their sharp claws and hooked beaks, pro-
claim their strength. One of them, after being cap-
tured, attacked and ate a tame pigeon. Mr. Ashworth,
who has them in possession, has named them “ Pompa-
dours” on account of the line on their spotted wings.
An anti-Chinese meeting, a la Lambing Flat,
was held at Staunifer the other day, but the local
representative of the majesty of the law made his
appearance, and paraded his forces through the town-
ship, upon which the miners thought better of it, and
very sensibly took the course of interviewing the
manager, who employs, and threatens still further to
employ, Chinese labour. However, they subsequently
held another meeting, and burnt the effigy of Mr. Eddy,
of the firm of Eddy and Murray, miners, storekeepers,
and employers of Chinese labour.
The China Mail says :—“ Canton is covered
with posters warning the people not to go to Australia,
where the ‘ mouse has got into the cow’s ear,' i.e.,
where the natives are taking a mean advantage of the
Chinese monster’s helpless position. The police con-
nive at the roughs’ insulting behaviour, and the
authorities are too weak to get at the offenders.
Sydney and Newshilun (? New Zealand) are as bad as
‘New California’ (Victoria). Reports say the pewter
hills of Lanchishan (? Tasmania) are a happy land, but
this is only a small valley, and already over.populated
by paupers.
Walter Everitt Stone, alias “ Dr. Basto,” a
most eccentric individual, was, on Friday last, re-
manded for a week on a charge of having, by false pre-
tences, attempted to obtain the hire of a large quantity
®f furniture. Defendant assumed extensive legal airs,
and when told that he stood remanded, said he hoped
the magistrate (Mr. Calvert) would choke while eating
his Christmas dinner. Mr. Calvert said if prisoner did
not take care he would be locked up in a disagreeable
place. Prisoner: “ I don’t care, I have been in the
wors f place—l have been in . Good day, sir; a
merry Christmas.”
At the Quarter Sessions, another case oc-
curred of a lawyer having taken a fee of five
guineas from a client, and then not appearing at the
trial- The wife of the prisoner, Mrs. West, told Judge
Dowling in the course of the morning that the solicitor
had merely looked in for a few minutes and gone away
again. His Honor said that he considered the solicitor’s
conduct most reprehensible, and that it was not the
first time the thing had happened. Mr. Godfrey was
then requested by the Court to defend the prisoner;
and although that gentleman made an able defence,
West was sentenced to 18 months’ hard labour. The
charge was stealing registered letters.
On Christmas-day, a very pleasant dinner was
given by the non-commissioned officers and men of the
N. S. W. Artillery at George’s Head barracks. The
toasts proposed were; —“The Queen:” “The day we
celebrate,” (“ Adeste fldeles ”); “ Absent Friends ’’
(“ Auld lang syne ”); “Major Spalding” (“For he is
the captain of the Pinafore”); “Lieutenant Savage”
(“ Oh, Willie, we have missed you ”) “ The Sergeant-
Majorof the Battery” (“For he’s a jolly good fellow”);
“ The Guests” (“ Ten little niggers going out to dine”);
“The Ladies” (“Sweethearts"), The room at George’s
Head in which the dinner was held was tastefully de-
corated. After a most enjoyable time, the party broke
up at a early hour on the 26th.
Surry Hills, has a gigantic public
school, erected at a cost of thousands of pounds, and
about 1,200 boys, girls and infants are there trained in
the way they should go. We were invited last week to
a dramatic and musical performance there to celebrate
the end of school work and the break-up fof holidays.
After a terrible climb up flights of serial steps the visitors
found themselves in the warm schoolroom, which was
crowded to suffocation by parents and friends of the
children. The dramatic performance selected was Mo-
liere’s “Le Mcdecin Malgre Lui," excellently trans-
lated by Mrs. T. H. Bardwell, the ambitious, painstak-
ing, and clever head-mistress of the school. The per-
formance was highly creditable, and we shall watch
with interest the future career of “ the doctor.” A
musical performance followed, and Mr. John Davies,
C.M.G., then delivered the prizes given by the head-
mistress from her own purse, and those won by Crown-
street scholars at the International Exhibition. Mrs
Bardwell’s prizes were won by the Misses Lizzie Davies,
Jennie Harpur, Ada Paterson, Mary Hind, Martha
Davies, Ruth Palmer, Gerty O'Sullivan, and Mabel
Fidler. The International prizes were awarded to the
following boys and girls:—H. French, H. Palmer, W.
Anderson, F. Petrie, A. Oliver; the Misses Ellen
Petrie, Ora Zlotkowski, Fannie Harpur, Alice Totter,
pell, E. Moir, M. Marqnies, D. Gough, F. Davies, A.
Buchanan, Ellen Walden, and Emma Krauss. “ God
Save the’Qneen," and cheers for Mrs. Bardwell, brought
the proceedings to a close.
THE LAST MINUTE.
The Duke of Manchester is at Jimbour, in
Queensland.
Mr. Archibald Forbes will arrive in Melbourne
in May next, on a lecturing tour.
Dr. Dickenson, of Melbourne, has been drowned
at Waiwera, N.Z., while bathing in one of the hot
lakes.
Mr. H. B. Fitz, Clerk of the Queensland Parlia-
ment, died on Wednesday morning. He was at one
time a Darling Downs squatter, and, with Mr. Wilson,
owner of Pilton Station.
Mr. John Ferres, the Victorian Government
Printer, is retiring, after 29 years in the public service.
The two officers next in succession will also be super-
annuated, in order that the Berryites may find billets for
their friends.
The Government want to know why Mr. G. F.
Wise, the Immigration Agent, did not allow the immi-
grants who arrived by the Northampton on Friday, to
land until Monday. It is understood that Mr. Wise
was absent from town.
It is said that Capt. Pembroke Murray, of the
N.S.W. Artillery, will probably succeed the late Mr.
Norton in the Dubbo police magistracy. Capt. Murray
is not only a lawyer of considerable ability, but an
experienced man of the world, and an accomplished
litterateur.
Mr. Darley, Q.C., tells us that he did not use,
during his speech in the divorce case Dibbs v. Dibbs,
the expressions attributed to him by the Express, and
referred to in our issue of last week. The Express, in
its last impression, might at least have made some
apology or explanation on this subject.
The Zig-Zagger, in Monday’s Hecca, speaks of
Colonel Vaughan and of his family. If they had
been a breed of pure bulls or racehorses, a better para-
graph could not have been written —but considering
that the Colonel was at least a gentleman, and one
whose son holds a high position in our midst, the lines
referred to were simply disgusting.
The change of the Fijian seat of Government
from Levuka to Suva is a great blow to’ the Wesleyan
Mission and a few other landlords who own Levuka in
its entirety. Land has been sold in Levuka at £2700
per acre, and in exceptional cases it has realised as
high as £BOOO per acre. The Government offer a free-
hold in Suva for the value of one year’s rent in Levuka.
The Mission and the High Commissioner are now at
loggerheads.
On the last boat (midnight) from Sydney ar-
riving at the Bald Rock Ferry, Balmain, on Christmas
night, a passenger, named Christopher Tully, fell over-
board. The passengers were unable to render any
effective assistance to him, but, fortunately, Captain
Connelly, hearing the alarm, jumped in and rescued the
drowning man, who was sinking for the third time.
This is the fourth occasion during the present year, and
the thirty-eighth life Captain Connelly has been the
means of saving.
The Hon. H. R. Beor, Attorney-General of
Queensland, who was a passenger from Sydney, shot
himself dead on Christmas Day, on board the steamer
Rotorua. The reason of the rash act has not tran-
spired. Mr. Beor was a widower, but has left no
children. He is believed to have been in good circum-
stances, and was quite a young man. Mr. Beor was
member for Bowen, and was returned for that
constituency for the third time, when he accepted
office some time back. At the time of his melancholy
death, Mr. Beor was on his way to Auckland.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“An Evangelist:” Good joke. Outis
For reasons which will, no doubt, have occurred to
you, we do not print the whole of your contributions.
“ What is nothing ?” : Qui s’excuse s’accuse. Perhaps
there is “ no N. Y. Clipper nonsense” about your con-
tribution. “Mountain Mac.”: Please write again,
“ Rugby C.C.” : Copy not preserved. If you send
in match reports, say on Monday, they will be attended
to. “T.W.H.”: Next time. “ W.H.W.”; Shall be
glad to enter into the arrangement proposed
“H. 8.8.”: We are much obliged for your letter, but
must explain that we wish the column for which most
of your items were designed to be a medium for the
communication, in all sincerity, of a certain class of
news and not the means by which lampoons, whose
effect is known to but a few, can be published. In
future, kindly send us facts ; leave the humor to us.


I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Kael Theodoee Staigee, analytical
chemist.”— Advt.
Notice.
The fact that this issue of The Bulletin is printed on
white paper is due to our having nsed up all the
due tinted paper in the colonial market. We believe
that our readers prefer tinted paper, but shall be under
the necessity of continuing to use white pending the
arrival from England of direct shipments arranged for
some time ago and now overdue.
Notice to Advertisers.
From this date the charge for advertise-
ments in The Bulletin will be Five Shillings (5s.) per
inch, nett.
Space being limited it is obviously impossible to
maintain the literary character of The Bulletin and
at the same time submit to the ever-increasing pressure
ou its commercial columns.
The weekly circulation of The Bulletin is
uow guaranteed to be over 16,000, with a regular
increase of several hundreds per month.
To meet the growing demand for The Bulletin
we find it necessary to go to press much earlier than
formerly.
Our advertising patrons are therefore respect-
fully informed that advertisements for the current
week’s publication must be in the office not later than
noon on Wednesday.
HAYNES & ARCHIBALD.
LATE SPORTING.
A boy named Sheahan waa killed while racing
at Quirindi.
Athletic sports were organized at Cootamundra
on Boxing Day.
Allan’s bowling should never bo punished; it
always brings on an attack of sciatica.
Tonopholite won the Maiden Plate at Mudgee,
and Wary the Christmas Box Handicap.
The Goulburn C.C. defeated the St. Leonard’s
C.C. on Boxing Day, in one innings, with 24 runs to
spare.
Lawson, a jockey, sustained serious injury at
Wallsend on Tuesday, by a fall while negotiating a
hurdle.
George Davis, the Newcastle runner, broke his
leg on the Albion Ground, at West Maitland, on
Monday.
The Parramatta Alfred C.C. beat the Newcastle
Ironclad C.C. by three wickets, at Parramatta on
Boxing Day.
The Newcastle (E.) sporting men presented
Trickett with a purse of sovereigns. We have some
friends in England.
Foul Play won the Auckland Cup, run on
Monday. A jockey named Nolan was killed by a
collision during the race.
The XLCE, winner of the 16-feet dingy race at
Pyrmont Regatta, was built by Mr. W. H. Golding, of
Balmain, a youth under 20 years of age.
Dave Gregory kept himself too late in the first
innings; he should have gone in after the fall of the
first wicket. He should have tried his own bowling
also.
The wickets run east and west on the M.C.C.
ground, and after 5 oTock the batsman facing the set-
ting sun has to shade his eyes with his hat before he
can see either the bowler or the ball.
The Wallsend second day’s races were very
successful. Mecrame won the Maiden Plate, Verdict
the Novel Race, Little Nell the Hack Race, Premier
the Town Plate, and Verdict the Forced Handicap.
From an extended account, telegraphed from
Albany and published in the Adelaide Observer, it
appears pretty clear that Trickett lost the race with
Hanlan purely on his merits. The account differs in
no essential particular from those already published.
The second day’s racing at Tamworth resulted
as follows Nursery Handicap: Ninus, 1; Tortworth,
2; Old Gold, 3. Tamworth Handicap: Salvator, 1 •
Orlando, 2; Pride, 3. Railway Handicap: Reindeer, 1 •
Sir Roger, 2; Gay Lad, 3. Mr. Bather’s Claymore won
the £5O Handicap and the Forced Handicap.
The Boxing Day Sports at West Maitland were
very successfully conducted. The running was first-
class, most events being well contested. Walsh won
the Maiden Plate, P. Curran the Grand Handicap,
Brackenreg the Quarter-mile Handicap, Parkes the
li-mile Walking Match, and Dallas the Mile Race.
There was an attendance of over 3000 people.
The programme of the New South Wales
National Regatta on Anniversary Day is published.
The events include a race for all comers pulling a pair
of sculls in light skiffs, handicapped; bond fide fishing-
boats, with working sails, to be manned and sailed by
crews of not more than four fishermen, square-sails
allowed, time allowance 2 minutes per foot; first-class
yachts, 15 tons and upwards, handicapped; second-class
yachts, 8 tons and under 15, handicapped; senior ama-
teurs, pulling four oars, in string-test gigs; champion
belt, for all comers in outriggers; all comers pu'ling a
pair of sculls in watermen’s skiffs or boats of that class,
handicapped.
A correspondent, in reference to the forthcom-
ing Highland gathering, writes .—“The handicapper
“JS very unfairly adjusted the starts in the case of a
little boy 11 years of age, having placed him only 6
yards in front of the next man in the 200 yards race,
and 65 yards in the 1| walking handicap—starts
altogether ridiculous—and though I believe the little
fellow is open to walk any one in Australia his own
age, he would have to be a veritable wonder indeed to
possess even the ghost of a chance in either of the
above events. I think that an injustice to the boy or a
blunder has been committed, though I dare say unin-
tentionally ” Perhaps, however, the committee know
the boy and the company he will be in.
A very attractive programme has been issued by
tae committee of the Portland (Vic.) Annual Regatta,
to take place on the 26th and 27th January, 1881. Some
ot the events should prove attractive to aquatic men in
this and the other colonies. The Portland Cup of £lOO,
first prize £75, for first-class sailing boats, open to
all comers, entrance £5, distance about 40 miles, —and
tne Norman by Cup, first prize £2O, for all sailing boats
(prize-takers in the Portland Cup excepted), entrance
£2, distance about 30 miles, —deserve the notice of our
yachtsmen; and a whaleboat race for all comers is
announced, but the committee reserve to themselves
the right to substitute for this race an intercolonial
whaleboat race of 50 sovs., provided boats and crews
come to compete from at least two of the adjoining
colonies—entrance £2, and the entries for this race
must be made on or before the 11th January, 1881.
The results of the Sydney Turf Club Races»
held yesterday, were as fellows: —Hurdle Ra^e. —
Benalla, 1; Radical, 2; Basilisk, 3. Time, 4min 2sec.
Five started. Councillor fell at the first fence. Mari-
ner was the other starter. Betting: 2to 1 Benalla, 5
to 2 others. Shorts Handier.p.—Blackbird, 1; Bar-
maid, 2; Courtney, 3. Won by two and a half lengths,
after a good race. Time. Imin. 6 Hl-P'sec. Betting:
5 to 1 Blackbird, 2to 1 Courtney. Corinthian Cup.—
Templar, 1; Esmonde, 2. Won by three lengths.
Time, 2min. 20 8-lOsec. Betting • 6to 4 Templar. Only
two started. Sapling Stakes. —Marmora, 1; Mar-
guerite, 2; Ext-er, 3. Won with ease by a length.
Betting: 2to 1 Marmora and Marguerite, 4 to 1 Shipka,
sto 1 Raymond and Rebecca. 13 started. Selling
Plate.—Bedouin, 1; All Fours, 2; Ivory Avenal, 3.
Wop by a head. Good race. Time, Imin. 33sec.
Betting .• 2 to 1 Bedouin and All Fours, sto 1 Kelso.
Seven started.
Intercolonial Cricket Match —Victoria v. New
South Wales—27th, 28th, and 29th December, 1880.
Victoria, first innings:—Mackay, b Tindall, 26; Mid-
winter, c Gregory, b Evans, 76; Horan, run out,
27; Coultbard, b Evans, 1; Tobin, b Garrett,
4; Campbell, c Hall, b Evans, 4; Allan, run
out, 0; M’Shane, b Evans, 27; Elliott, c and b
Evans, 0; W. H. Cooper, c Tindall, b Wearne, 8;
Edwards, not out, 28. Sundries, 8. Total, 209.
Bowling Analysis:—Evans, 244 balls, 71 runs, 29
maidens, 5 wickets; Wearne, 80 balls, 35 runs, 9
maidens, 1 wicket; Tindall, 95 balls, 47 runs,Bmaidens,
1 wicket; Garrett, 24 balls, 33 runs, 17 maidens, 1
vricket ; Jones. 40 balls. 14 runs, 3 maidens, wickets nil.
New South Wales.—First Innings;—A. Gregory, b
Allan, 9; Massie, b Allan, 29; C. Bannerman.b Cooper,
7; E. Tindall, h w, b Allan, 0; E. Evans, c Tobin, b
Allan, 1; H. Hiddlestone, b Allan, 2; Jones, st Elliott,
b Cooper, 0; D. Gregory, not out, 14; Wearne, b
Cooper, 4; Garrett, c Campbell, b Conner, 2;
Hall, b Allan. 6; sundries, 5: total, 79. Bowling
analysis:—Cooper, 80 balls, 42 runs, 7 maidens, 4
wicket; Allan, 132 balls, 27 runs, 23maidens, 6 wickets;
Edwards, 48 balls, 5 runs, 9 maidens, 0 wickets. New
South Wales —Second innings:—D. Gregory, Ibw, b
Midwinter, 85; Massi-, c Horan, b Cooper, 412; Banner-
man, b Allan, 5 ; A Gregory, b Midwinter, 8 ; Garrett,
c MSShane, b Cooper, 23; Evans, e and b Cooper, 51;
Tindall, b Cooper, 2; Wearne, b Midwinter, 0; Hiddle-
srone, not out, 11; Jones, not out, 9; sundries, 11;
Total, for the loss of eight wickets, 247. Tne
collapse of the New South Wales men in the first
innings is surprising, but may be, no doubt, accounted
for by the peculiar shade and position of the wickets on
the M.C.C. ground towards the close of the day. The
gallant stand made by Gregory in the second innimrs
brought the chances of avictory for New South
Wales to the front. On the game being resumed
on Wednesday, Jones increased his score of 9 to 13, and
was run out; Hall, b Midwinter, 0; Hiddlestone, not
out, 11. Total, 251; leaving the Victorians 122 to get
to win. The following is the score of the Victorians
for their second innings:—Horan, h Jones, 36; Mid-
winter, b Garrett, 5; Mackay, b Evans, 3; Conl-
thard, c Hall, fi Evans, 1; Tobin, Ibw, 0; Edwards,
b Jones, 13; Campbell, c Garrett, b Evans, 5;
M‘Shane, c Wearne, b Evans, 4; Allan, not out, 35 ;
Elliott, not ont, 20; sundries, 5; total, 128. The Vic-
torian team thus won by two wickets and three runs.
The bowling of our men was excellent, and kept their
opponents on the defensive. The weather was fine, and
there was a large attendance.
Mr. C. Wigzell’s Establishment in Oxford
Street.
There has always been a good deal of enterprise
among the business people of Oxford-street, as
may be judged from the rapid mannner that por-
tion of the city has advanced during the last few
years; and to no person is more credit due than
to Mr. C. Wigzell, who has for some years had one
of the leading tonsorial establishments of Sydney,
and who has now introduced a most desirable
sanitary convenience, in the shape of extensive
baths, designed on the latest London and Pari-
sian styles. Some time back, Mr. Wigzell, with
the view to the introduction of these improve-
ments, visited Europe, and, having inspected the
best establishments of London and Paris, brought
out with him what was considered the most suit-
able requirements ; and a visit to his establish-
ment will show that no expense has been spared
in securing for this city what science and art have
given to the Old World. Mr. Wigzell had his
premises considerably enlarged for these new
changes, a separate building being con-
structed for the baths, and a sketch of the in-
terior is given herewith. A fine wide gallery,
embellished with classic pictures and decorated
with flowering and foliage plants, leads from the
main entrance, and off this gallery are the baths
—ten in number. Each bath-room, or division, is
large and roomy, and is finished in exquisite style.
The baths are of solid iron, enamelled in perfect
style, and are with great speed filled, and emptied
at the base on a new principle. Cold, hot, and
tepid water is obtainable instanter, and the tem-
perature of the bath can be regulated with the
greatest ease. The baths combine the plunge and
shower, and the arrangements for the latter are
such as to secure a splendid fall of water. The
appointments all through are very complete, and
there is, moreover, the additional advantage of a
staff of active assistants, who are attired in a
suitable livery. The bath-rooms for ladies, which
are situate in another part of the establishment,
are likewise a great improvement, and are so
constructed as to ensure the greatest privacy and
comfort. The baths are of enamelled iron, and the
rooms are exquisitely furnished and decorated. Of
the other parts of Mr. Wigzell’s establishment little
need be said. In the hairdressing, wig-making,
and other arts he has won for his establishment a
business not to be excelled by that of any other
house in the colonies.
It’s well to be off with the old drunk before you
are on with the new.
Secretaries of cricket and racing clubs are in-
formed that their communications should, wherever
practicable, reaeh this office before Tuesday evening.
The Australian Mammoth Minstrels are a dead
failure in England. Dick Thatcher writes saying that
"he’s afraid he’ll starve in a London garret.’* We are
sorry to hear this.
We have received the current number of The
Stdneian, the Sydney Grammar School magazine,
which numbers among its contributors more than one
smart writer in embryo.
Professor Miller, the champion athlete and
wrestler, shows at the School of Arts for some
time. He informs us that, should sufficient induce-
ment offer, he will open a gymnasium in Sydney. We
think that the Professor has come to the right place.
A member of the London Stock Exchange went
for a cruise in his yacht, leaving his confidential clerk
in charge, with a balance of £5000. The clerk plunged,
with the charming result that on settling dav he had
lost £20,000 for his absent governor. At date of latest
advices the clerk’s address was wanted.
The Duke of Buccleuch was called upon by a
ragged-looking, poverty-stricken individual. The gor-
geous liveried servants would not admit him at first.
“ Tell the Duke I am his brother,” The servants
carried the message in fear and trembling, but the
result was the beggar was admitted. His Grace ad-
monished the visitor, and gave him 3d., with the
remark, “ Here—if every brother gives you as much
you will-be a rich man.” (Exit.)
Not long ago a “Petition to Christ for the
Removal of Satan from the World" was receiving
thousands of signatures from the congregations of
musty meeting-houses throughout London. But for
profound bathos in matters ecclesiastical, the open-air
apostles take the palm, as witness the following
selection from one of their original hymnals :—
Poor sinner, now’s the hour divine.
At any station of the line;
Should you repent, and turn from sin.
The train will stop, and take you in.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Wilkinson, the Albury murderer, is a man ab®ut
40 years of age, 5 feet 6 inches high, with scrubby iron-
grey hair over his face, and “a villainous cast of coun-
tenance. The publication of the Bligh Watchman,
hitherto issued at Coonabarabran, has ceased. The
plant has been removed to Muswellbrook, where the
paper will in future appear under another name.
Eight bullocks, averaging XOOOlbs., sold in Kempsey on
on Saturday next. The new railway bridge at Wagga
has been tested in the presence of Mr. Wade and Mr.
Nicholas. Three engines of the aggregate weight of
185 tons were run rapidly over the bridge, and the de-
clension was nil. Andrew Alderton, of Kiama,
disappeared while bathing at Kiama. It is believed that
sharks killed him. Last crushing of the Mountain
Maid Co., Copeland, 147 tons stone for 5200z5. gold.
The Maori, Tuhi, has been hanged for the
murder of Miss Dobie. Payable gold has, it is said,
been found ten miles south of Bathurst. The pros-
pector, Sullivan, alleges that he and his party sank a
22ft. shaft, and took from it washdirt, a bucket and a
half of which yielded 6dwts. 21grs. gold. 17 years
ago a woman was murdered in Liverpool, England, but
the police could get no clue as to the perpetrator. The
Scotland Yard authorities, however, recently ascer-
tained that the murderer had left for Australia, and
now, with the aid of the detectives, he has been
found in a New South Wales lunatic asylum.
At Charters Towers, the Victory p.c. crushed 61 tons
for 160ozs. The s.s. Claverhouse brings eight stow-
aways to Cooktown from Hongkong. They are
Americans and describe Hongkong as in a deplorable
state, so far as white labor is concerned. They declare
that necessity compelled them to have recourse to this
as the only means of escaping from starvation. The
Cooktown Herald, in noticing the departure en route
for Brooker Island of the French steamer “ Destrier,"
says that “any tinge of humiliation and bitterness
which we may feel when contrasting the energy of the
French with the inaction of our own Government, will
not prevent us from cordially welcoming and assisting
the gallant officers and men of the ' Destrier,’ as allies,
friends, and avengers of our murdered townsmen.
A handsome illuminated address is being sent to
Parnell by the Irishmen of Gympie. At the No. 2
Lady Mary claim, Gympie, a crushing of 6i tons stone
returned at the rate of 70 ozs. per ton. The average
yields from this claim last year were 35 ozs. per ton.
In connection with a company of Melbourne capitalists
Mr. G. G. Scott, an old Wood’s Point miner, is pros-
pecting the gold deposits of the Upper Murrumbidgee,
so favorably spoken of by the iate Rev. W. B. Clarke.
In the libel case Hodgkinson v. O’Neill, tried at Quean-
beyan, a verdict was by consent given for plaintiff,
defendant agreeing to apologise and pay all costa.
Robert and Bridget Elizabeth Williams have been com-
mitted for trial at next Circuit Court by the Wagga
bench for the murder of John Jobson, who died in
hospital from the effects of a fractured skull. The
young ladies of Nelson showered bouquets of flowers on
Mr. Proctor at the conclusion of his lecture on “ The
Moon.” Thomas West, a native of Tasmania, known
in the North as Thomas Nott, has been killed by the
kick of a bullock. Cooktown alone has now 13 ves-
sels and 20 men engaged in the beche-de-mere fishery,
while the cost of plant and material is considerably
over £6,000. The niggers in the neighbourhood of
M’Leod’s, Hodgkinson River, N.Q., watch the miners
descending their shafts, and then kill their horses on
the very claim. At the Union Camp, Hodgkinson, a
myall has become so civilised that he is now capable of
managing a shanty. The local manager of the
Queensland National Bank has put the “screw” on to
the Charters Towers Municipal Council, whose cheque
for £9O he dishonored. The 15,000 acres of land ap-
plied for by Mr. James Tyson, on the Herbert River, is
not for sugar growing purposes, as reported, but for
grazing. This attempted wholesale despoliation of
river frontages is justly regarded as iniquitous.
At Maytown, the Try Again has crushed 37 tons stone
for 184 ozs. 13 dwts. The next crushing at the Ida
p.c.. Palmer River, will be one of the largest which has
yet taken place on that field. The Hop Bitters reef
now takes the lead among the new lines on the Palmer.
There is gold in the quartz and rubble. Remarks
the Northern Miner : —“ The Sydney Bulletin says
the present editor of the Townsvile Herald stands
6 ft. 4 in. That accounts for the extraordinary fact that
the leaders in that paper come out in ‘ sections,’ and
are marked ‘to be continued.’ This 6-footer is too long
to be exhibited at full length in one issue.” Few
public institutions can show such a statement as that
of the Charters Towers hospital. The treasurer’s state-
ment showed to credit in Q.N. Bank £lOOO 15.5 d.; fixed
deposit, £5OO ; total, £l5OO Is. sd. The Comet Co.,
Maytown, Palmer River, crushed 320 tons for 795 ozs.
5 dwts. The Palmer is now pre-eminently worthy of
the attention of capitalists. Mounted-trooper Dum-
mett, who was thrown from his horse last month, has
died at Paterson. At Melbourne International on
Christmas Day, 18,889 attended. A miner, named
Felix Connor, was killed on Friday evening while de-
scending a shaft at Temora under the influence of
drink.——On Sunday two men named Glyn and Leslie
were caught in the celebrated nuggefclaim of Keating
and Hayes at Temora. They were provided with food
and all necessaries, and even newspapers to pass some
time below. No gold was however found on them.
The Wallsend colliery has posted up notices to the
effect that from January 1 coal will sell at 8s per ton,
and miners be paid in accordance with the arbitrators’
award. The low price of coal will have the effect of
closing some small colleries. Two brothers, named
Ernest and John Foster, aged 19 and 17, have been
drowsed at Big Hill, near Sandhurst, whilst bathing.
Their clothes were found on the bank. A man
named Hagman has been remanded for a diobolical
outrage on a Collingwood woman, who is now in a criti-
cal state. At Taree, on Boxing Day, a fowling-piece
exploded, wounding two lads, Sydney Rees and John
M’Crossin. Nearly the whole of the charge was
lodged in Rees’ loins, and there is ho hope of his re-
covery. In all, 55,000 persons were carried on the
suburban railway lines during Boxing Day and the five
preceding days. Very few of our wool-growers are
exhibitors at the Melbourne International. The
Sydney Art Gallery was visited on Boxing Day by
nearly 3000 persons. On Boxing Day, at Taree, a
little girl was lost. Up to the present no trace of her
has been found. Two leading hotelkeepers of Qoul-
burn are at loggerheads, and speak of pistols and
coffee. A highly-fascinating barmaid is the cause of all
the trouble.
Rest Evermore.
Hose Herseehas just completed a translation
of the charming French opera comique, “ Mignon."
Following is a traduction from the lady’s pen, of the
opening song:—
Dost thou know that fair land
Where the orange tree grows ?
Where the air seemeth bland,
And where blossoms the rose;
Where the breeze e’er is light.
And beneath shady trees.
Round flowers gay and bright.
Are humming busy bees ?
There the birds gaily sing.
Warbling songs ever new.
There ’tis always Spring,
The sky serenely blue.
Alas ! with what sorrow past telling,
Towards that land doth my mem’ry soar;
’Tis there I fain would be dwelling.
And there find rest evermore !
Dost thou know the castle old,
Where they’re waiting for me ?
Halls with mirrors and gold.
And pale statues I see;
They recal me ev’ry night
With extended hands
’Neath the moon’s silv’ry light
In that happiest of lands.
The broad transparent lake,
As its tiny ripples flow,
A bright mirror seems to make
For the sails that come and go.
Alas ! with what sorrow past telling
Towards that land doth my mem’ry soar ;
'Tis there I fain would be dwelling.
And there find rest evermore !
ROSE FERSEE.
A volunteer named Grant, of the Bruce Rifles,
Dunedin, N.Z., lately made the fine score ot 57 out of a
possible 60, at 400, 500, and 600 yards.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Boers still aggressive.
Sedition spreading in Ireland.
Greeks firm on frontier question.
Confidence restored in Chicago re wheat panic.
Parnell elected leader of the Home Eule party.
Lord Eipon is convalescent, and has not
resigned.
Unhlonhlo, Basuto chief, defeated by the
colonial troops.
Greek Government declines arbitration respect-
ing their frontier.
Protos’ cargo of frozen meat arrived in London
in splendid order.
Mr. John Joseph Mechi, the eminent English
agricultural writer, is dead, aged 78.
The newly-elected President of the Swiss Ee-
public committed.suicide in the street.
The Pope, in the Osservatore Eomano,
counsels peaceful measures in Ireland.
Turkish Government submits new proposal, and
will agree to abide by the decision of the Great Powers.
John Bright replied to Earl Carnarvon, justi-
fying his policy as regards the Irish Land Question.
The Boers, after murdering five Englishmen,
attacked Polchefstroon, but were repulsed by the
colonial forces, who killed and wounded 100 of them.
The ship Juno, carrying a large cargo of arms,
manufactured in America, has been seized at the mouth
of the Shannon. The captain and crew were arrested.
It is not true that Sir Algernon Borthwick,
proprietor of the Morning Post, has suspended pay-
ment. The statement that such was the case arose
from the incorrect transcription of a telegram.
Earl Carnarvon’s letter to John Bright on Irish
question appears in Loudon papers, in which Carnarvon
states that the President of the Board of Trade is
unfitted by reason of his political opinions to belong to
the Government.
During their march from Pretoria, and while
engaged in rescuing baggage waggons which were im-
bedded in a swamp, 250 men of M.M. 94th Regiment
were attacked by the Boers and 30 killed. The
remainder were disarmed and then allowed to go. Re-
inforcements, including the 6th Dragoons, are on their
way to the Cape.
BRIEF MENTION.
A cherry-case—The coffin trial.
Prayer-meetings for rain wanted.
Boxing Day.—An infant’s funeral.
Eeligion and Eum— Herald and Telegraph.
Willie Stephen calls his new billet “ half-and-
half.”
Advice to “Liryc”—Hang thy harp upon the
willow.”
A companion of the bath — The Bulletin at
Wigzell’s.
An arduous but now necessary duty—Shepherd-
ing your coffin.
A necessary appendage to a literary rocket. —
A journalistic “ stick."
When you call a man at Wallsend a “ ninny,”
he feels cpmplimented.
“ Mine, miner-minus,” says the defaulting bank
manager who dabbled in quartz scrip.
A Park-street publican flew all his flags when
his sister died, the other day. £lO,OOO.
Now that Father Leonard is made a Dean, he
always makes the hired man jog the old mare along.
All the orange trees about Burwood and Croydon
are dying—withering up fast. Peter visits at Croydon.
Mr. Henry Gotthold, we notice by the papers,
was assaulted the other day. He got hold of the
wrong man.
Why is the purchasing of two copies of The
Bulletin like the fasting doctor ? Because it’s a well-
spent Tanner.
When the Post Office clock went wrong on
Tuesday, the officers excused themselves by saying it
was holiday time.
Mr. Castle, the well-known solicitor, was nearly
drowned the other day. Not Castle’s in the air, but
Castle’s in the water.
The Herald’s usual Christmas sermon was, on
Saturday last, preached by “Hunter-street." It was
only two columns long.
Dr. M'Guven calls a minister-harassing body
of which he and John Davies were the leaders—“ an
influential deputation.”
We can “ learn” and even “ mark” some of the
writings in the Sectarian Scorcher, but we cannot
“ inwardly digest” them.
The mad Doctor Basto put “ A.C.E.” after his
name. Serjeant Mulqueeny, however, says that it
ought to be another picture card.
If you want to get a letter in the Dailt
Lynch, you have only in the commencing sentence,
to say something about “ your excellent paper.”
The Temora Star rather spoils the fun of the
Temora Herald’s Christmas story by anticipating its
conclusion in an exquisite parody. This is too cruel.
Peter says, give him an American organ, loan
him a good -J-tenor voice, and get 10,000 people into his
hall, and he’ll knock spots out of any living evan-
gelist.
The Protestant M‘Gctven is a versatile
journal. In one column it has an article on “Crime in
Ireland,” and immediately under it a paper, “ A use for
old corks.”
We notice that “ Hanlan, late Trickett” won a
race at the Bourke meeting. Here’s an example of the
steadfastness of Australian patriotism. Le roi est mart,
vivo le roi!
A letter-carrier at the Glebe has been dismissed
for non-delivery of a newspaper. In his explanation
to the Department, he said he thought it was only the
Witness. [There is another letter-carrier in a marine
suburb who tells his customers what are in the letters
and who they are from.]
From Broadsound, N.Q., a marriage is reported,
but no births or deaths. The wedding was Celebrated
by a grand ball, at which more ladies than gentleman
were present. No music was provided, aad but for the
kindness of some ladies who volunteered to play the
concertina the affair, in the words of a correspondent,
“ would have been over before it commenced.”
We notice in the Herald that prayers for rain
are on the tapis. This must be indeed soothing to the
ratepayer, and almost as good—if not better than—a
three-days’ “soaker.” At the same time there are
certain persons (sceptics, no doubt) who broadly state
that, if things had arrived at this pass in other and
possibly quite as civilised countries, the populace
would have commenced their supplication by “ sus-
pending” the Aldermen and asphyxiating the Mayor.
Let us pray!
A married lady, of Goulbnrn, causes some
sensation by occasionally driving through that city


under the protection of a Japanese umbrella —the first
ever seen in Goulbnm.
The testimonial epidemic has now extended to
’bus drivers. O Jehus-ophatl
There is a spectacle-epidemic among the Shoal-
haven doctors and schoolmasters.
The Lyre writes about the “Water Want,’’ yet
there is nothing about the Guinevere in the par.
In referring to the death of George Eliot, Mr.
Waters says—“ Lord Macaulay preferred ‘ Jane Westen’
to the whole tribe of novel writers." Now, we really
do wonder who Jane Westen is.
In Maryborough, Queensland, lives an editor
who is so wealthy that he can not only afford to contest
an election but to entertain his employes at supper.
There is something wrong somewhere.
There is likely to be much trouble ere long
through the vagaries of a Sydney physician, who is in
the habit of calling mesmerism to his aid. Men are
jealous creatures—sometimes reasonably so.
At Roberts’ Crown and Anchor Hotel the
thirsty soul calls for a “ Bishop Barker.” At the Aus-
tralian Club they call for a “ Dr. Gill-e.tt.” The former
is a long beer —the latter, a gill of brandy and water.
The City Bank has involuntarily become pos-
sessed of a large quantity of mining scrip. The
directors, however, trust to realize satisfactorily. They
are hopeful, and believe in the “ morter ” —Neill despe-
randum.
In North Queensland, and, in fact, nearly as far
south as Maryborough, it is considered by railway con-
tractors that the best way to push a railway is to drink
shandy-gaff and make love to all the women along the
line.
A local auctioneer of Maryborough, Queens-
land, who takes a lively interest in politics, and made
nimself conspicuous during the late contests, states
that Disraeli, as a politician, cannot hold a candle to
Beacousfleld.
In Gympie it is the fashion among some of the
ladies of the upper tan to stroll about the streets hat-
less, occasionally bailing up a stray bachelor against a
lamp-post, and carrying on a flirtation quite regardless
of the public.
In speaking of the Christmas number of the
Shilling Mart Ann, the Telegraph says that “if
carefuly perused, it may be warranted to produce a
nightmare." It is very odd that the papers won’t let
poor Cyril alone!
The cartoon in the current number of Mel-
bourne Punch has, of course. Berry for its subject.
It is entitled “ The Spring-street Pantomime: Harle-
quin Jeremy Diddler and the Five Little Watery-headed
Reform Bill Babies.”
A groom found .£285 in notes at Tamworth, and
took them to the police office. The owner came and
claimed the money. The groom was rewarded with £2;
and now no man’s life is safe who says in his hearing
that “ Virtue is its own reward.”
At the annual dinner given by the proprietors
°f The Argus, Australasian and Sketcher to their
principal employes, it was mentioned that the average
length of service of the employes in the various depart-
ments of the office was nineteen years.
There is a certain police court solicitor so belli-
cose in his cups (which means always) that his wife
told him, the other dav, that if he’d married a graven
image he’d quarrel with it. That was after he had
missed her with the last available soup-plate.
Here is a curious coincidence. On Friday last
the Hekka, price one penny, came out double. Last
Sunday a preacher at Darling Point alluded to the
demoralising effect of cheap and nasty literature. This
is what a man gets by trying to please the public.
Chorus has an “ atmospheric ” poem on Erin,
in the course of which the bard, speaking of Barry
Sullivan, ecstatically observes—
“ The weak, ambitious Sqot, the moody Dane,
The jealous Moor, in him doth live again." (sic.) 1 .
We once knew a man who used to write verse like this
in his spare time. Professionally, he was a dhst-cart
driver. Can it be possible—but no !
Here’s a chance for somebody. The conductor
of a new Sydney publication says—“ We hereby, in our
initial number, offer a valuable gold medal to the gen-
tleman who shall, within the next six months, invent a
new, invigorating, and pleasant game for the gentler
sex."
The other afternoon a wealthy resident of
Darling-street, Balmain, was aroused out of siesta by a
little girl, who poked a card through the open window,
and said: “ The lady over the way, what come yester-
day, does mangling." The wealthy resident was much
impressed.
The Mayor of Ryde, in presenting a deputation
of local residents to the Minister for Works to advocate
the extension of the tramway system to that borough,
remarked that after six o’clock they were shut out
from civilization. Very complimentary to the people
of his township.
It is said that the editor of a paper in the
Western districts is such a savage sandwich-sampler
that when he appears on a racecourse the caterers, &c.,
invariably hide those luscious edibles and substitute
hard biscuit and pickled onions. No allusion of course
to the proprietor of N anct Lee !
We learn from the Evening Vortex that
Ed. Ward, Esq.. ex-Mavor of Sheffield, lately gave £5
to St. John’s Church, Lane Cove. The par. is headed
‘‘A Generous Tourist," and the tone of it painfully
obsequious. We trust that Mr.'E. Ward is satisfied
with the E.E.Ward of his munificence.
The Sydney Daily Twaddlegraph, the
other day, printed a list of members of our new Parlia-
ment. Only 22 were wrong out of 108. They could
have given a much more correct list out of the Vlc-
torien members of Parliament—which is a point
against alien journalism in this city.
Money is being so freely contributed for the
purpose of clothing and civilizing the benighted South
Islander, and the benighted S.S.I. aforesaid has such a
good time of it just now what with roast naval
officer and grilled A.B. that it is becoming profitable to
go down to the South Pacific and become a heathen.
An evening contemporary remarks that at the
Christmas-d.-iy festivities at the Hyde Park Asylum,
Mr. Hicks was obliged to dance with nearly all the old
women in the establishment. This would have been
against the rules at the Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion,
Botany, for there no two old ladies are allowed to dance
together.
O’Donovan, of the Freeman’s Journal, in
alluding to a (Boyd) sample photograph of babies taken
on the half shell, says:—•• The photographs are well
taken, and to judge from the excellent grouping of the
babies they must have been exceedingly good ones.
Now, which does he mean—the photos, the shells, or
the babies ?
At Cairns, Queensland, even the canine race is
played out. The other day a wallaby ran up the main-
street and, according to the local paper, “ made straight
for the hop-beer shop." A tremendous crowd of dogs
surrounded it, but not one of them had the courage to
tackle it. Eventually the poor wallaby had to run
against a fence and commit suicide.
Bay-less will now be a misnomer for the genial
general manager of the Gaiety, since he has achieved a
triumph. He will have nothing to do now but to
emulate the example of the King in the nursery
rhyme—
“ Sitting in his country house,
Counting out his money.”
There is a certain godly business man in this
city, who has on his office mantelpiece, a large piece of
cardboard, with the text upon it, “The Lord be
with thee.” Behind it he keeps a bottle of Walker's
Whisky. One day a friend happene 1 to take it up to
better decipher it. Then, when he after reading it saw
the bottle, he piously murmured—“ And with thy
spirit."
A retired lawyer, resident at Manly, drives a
horse that looks j ust as if it had swallowed a flour cask.
The other day a friend asked him why he purchased
such a poor and sorry-looking Rosinaute. “ I’ll tell you,”
replied the legal gentleman, with a cunning twinkle in
his eye. “ I like to count the ribs of any horse I buy ;
for then I know the bazaar has not done me out of a
single bone.”
The Presbyterian still uses the queer word
“squelched.” It says that Peter “was squelched.”
The Witness merely says that Peter was “ up a tree.”
Now the Herald sees the result of bad example.
When the rev. editor of a religious paper don’t
like a man, he calls him degraded; when he don’t like
a thing, he calls it “ rotten;” and when he disagrees
with anyone upon any little point of history, he calls
him “a liar.” And yet this gentleman tells his con-
gregation every Sunday to restrain their passions, and
he would bang any kid he caught playing hop-scotch on
the Sabbath.
A French gentleman called at the enquiry win-
dow of the G.P.O. the other day, and said to the clerk,
‘ 1 Pourriez-vous Monsieur, me dire si le I’affranchise ment
des lettres pour la France est la meme chose qne sous
I’Empire ?’’ The enquiry gentleman gazed on him
breathlessly for a moment, and then gasped—“ Lorn-
peer—oh ! I see—long beer—well, Mounseer—we, er—
don’t keep it.”
When Kate Spollin was fined 30s. at the Central
on Monday for damaging a window, the clerk of the
court observed that tlongh it pained the bench the
offence was to transparent that the magistrates had no
option but to convict. And then as the defendant was
being removed, he said, “ This is a case of spollin’ the
Christmas of Spollin.” This modern Joe Miller used
to belong to the Evening Libel.
On the Hunter the other day a certain would-
be aristocrat, who belongs to the chosen race, sent his
baby, aged three months, and his nephew, a boy of two
yeirs, to visit some friends. The two year-old handed
in his card, and the unfortunate infant had hers pinned
to her dress. The servant had received strict instruc-
tions from her “ lady ” mistress to see that the “ kids ”
left the pasteboards. What next!
At Cairns, one of the papers is now “ run’’ by
a baker. The opposition journal enviously remarks
that “ if the press has had to remind the local baker of
an occasional ounce or two wanting in his loaves, the
same complaint cannot be lodged against him in his
new avocation as a reporter. * * * Mr. M’Gregor,
the baker, as a reporter, is not a success; he gives too
much for the money—cheap and nasty.”
The agony column of the Melbourne Argus
has of late been well supplied with extraordinary adver-
tisements. The following, addressed by a lady to her
friends, appeared the other day:—“My letters have
been intercepted, and much speculation is rife as to
whether this has anything to do with the late arbitrary
proceedings of the Commissioner of Customs in prying
into private letters, lately brought under notice.”
It being the New Year, we are happy to present
our readers with an extract of a seasonable song,
warbled in the Tenpenny Shrill by Miss Philip Dale :
“ Ding dong the joy bells.
Fall on the ears.
Of those who have seen.
Full many years,”
Dong, dong, bell, the cat’s in the well —who-00-p I Yah !
Evans, on his arrival by the Australia (s.s).,
was met by a number of his confreres. They endeav-
oured to console him all they could, by presents of
“Vanity Fair” cigarettes, toffee, etc.; and as they
were bidding him good-bye, one tall fair gentleman
said, with a sigh, “Never mind, Johnny,—it’s what we
must all come to." It was a slip, of course, but its
effect on the other clerks was horrible to contemplate.
In a North Queensland paper, the other day,
appeared a funny j nmble. A correspondent was writing
about a cricket match and the departure of a local
doctor. The two things got mixed up and read thus: —
“ He will be greatly missed, as he was ever most inde-
fatigable in his attendance upon those needing his
services. Score: ” Then followed the obituary
column, in which were printed a number of announce-
ments of deaths.
A correspondent of The Australasian sug-
gests a cure for one of the greatest curses of this
sland —the loating sundowner. “Let every working
bushman get from his last employer a written signed
statement that he has executed certain work at a place,
and date, and he will always get employment in
preference to the uncertiflcated swagsmen; or each
man may have a little clasp-book that these certificates
may be written in, called the bushman’s book.”
When kindly-disposed ladies of means provide
Christmas prizes for school competition, it augurs at
least bad taste to defeat the purpose of such presenta-
tations by awarding the objects to the favoured chil-
dren of wealthy parents, and to the prejudice of their
poorer but more deserving class-mates. Something of
this sort happened during Christmas week at Forest
Lodge, and on that particular occasion the friends of
the pupils were not mollified by the remark of the
donor that her prizes were intended for the girls to
whom they were given, irrespective of merit or desert.
This is how they write in the Far North
(Charters Towers);—lt would be ridiculous to expect
anything like gentlemanly feeling from Mr. . Born
and reared in a gutter, his acts and words savor of the
same odorous origin. He poses before the public of
Charters Towers as a saint—one of the godly—the
‘ unco guid.’ He started civilisation on the Rainbow
here with a bottle of whisky and a gin mixture. Hav-
exhausted both, he turned his attention to religion, and
under the tutorship of the Rev. James Carson, of
“ pious memory," soon sprouted out into a full-blown
“ snufflebuster,” &c., &c.
The lucubrations of Achates have, since we
called the attention of the public to their extreme
merit, ceased to adorn the columns of the Manning
River Times. The editor— The Bulletin doubtless
running in his mind—has adopted “ Brevities” instead.
He is evidently resolved that if he can’t be original, at
least he will be instructive. He is, however, silent as
to his quondam contributor. He does not even inform
us what hatter’s shop he belongs to. Not a word—alas !
we fear that —
Sad, sad, ah! the fate is
Of brilliant Achates.
The Daily Twaddler of Friday last says
that The Bulletin portraits are not good. Now, as
the Twaddler is owned, managed, and edited bv newly-
| arrived Victorians, who are in utter and complete
ignorance of New South Wales men, matters, and
manners, and as it is always making the most absurd
errors about local affairs, it’s quite evident that the paper
isn’t to be regarded as an authority on such subjects.
It’s even possible that the writer of the paragraph iii
question was at the time unable to distinguish between
Charles Moore and Charles Bright, and it’s pretty
certain that he never in all his life saw the former gen-
tleman.
For real, true, reliable and straight-up-and-
down sporting reports, commend us to the daily papers.
When we read in the Daily Telegraph and Evening
News that Garrett had, in the Intercolonial Match,
bowled, in 14 balls, 17 maiden overs, we merely shrugged
our shoulders and whistled; but when, on turning to
the dear Old Lady (she’s twopence), we found the
same trundler credited with the alraost-as-astonishing
feat of getting 17 maidens out of 24 balls, we came to
the conclusion that either tbe fumes of the brandy
sauce had not yet quite evaporated or that the “ overs”
adopted by the players in the match must consist
of from one ball and a fraction to a fraction of one ball.
It’s about time the boys got to work.
A young girl residing in Rockhampton had been
engaged as a daily needlewoman by a person well able
to pay liberally, but who is generally averse to doing
so. The girl, having a long distance to travel home
after completing her daily task, gratefully acceded to
the wish of her patroness that she should sleep on the
premises, and “ Then, you know, my girl, you can com-
mence early in the morning, and I’ll leave tbe work
ready for you.” Time went on, and the work being
completed, the finale was a settlement. Much to the
girl’s astonishment, she found her employer had
deducted “ sixpence a night for the bed.”' The poor
hardworked sempstress swallowed the “ bitter pill,”
but vows she’ll do no more work for Mrs. So-and-So!
Christmas carols, when well sung, please every
one. The party (a choir) who serenaded the clergyman
and churchwardens of a certain Woolloomooloo church
on Christmas eve sat in a parcel-delivery van drawn by
“ one ” horse up the steep hill of Forbes-street. The
bystanders who witnessed this cruelty lent a hand in
the way of shoving at the wheels, but where sat the
Sunday-school teachers and Bund of Hope men ? The
leader, the “concertinist,” should be reminded that
when music is set in a key above the range of the
natural voice, the effect is “ not pleasing.” The affair
was witnessed by hundreds of people. The party was
“bossed" by a bank clerk and the Sunday-school
teacher of St. Peter’s. They were not a bit abashed
when told by the clergyman to keep in tune.
A. Mr. Roper was rather violent in the witness-
box at the Central the other day, at the Carr trial.
“ Mr. Eoper, none of your hemp-pertinence,” said the
chairman. Then everybody laughed (as in duty bound),
and the case went on. When it was over, thej P.
said to Constable Keating, “ What were they laughing
at?” “You made a pun, your Worship,” said the con-
stable. “Did I?” remarked the magistrate. “Then
don’t say anything about it. I shouldn’t like my
family to to hear of my having so far forgotten myself.”
As we are always gasping for information, we
eagerly clutch this recipe, fresh from the pen of the
agricultural editor of the Freeman : —“ Reader.—To
brighten gilt frames, take enough flour of sulphur to
give a golden tinge to 1£ pints of water, and in this boil
four or five bruised onions. Strain off the liquid, and
with it, when cold, wash with a soft brush any gilding
which requires restoring. E. J.—Cherries may be pre-
served in this way.” When we have preserved a ton or
two of white-hearts as he directs, we will send him
along a bottle.
Leong Quong, a Cooktown Chinaman, advertises
thus in one of the local papers;—“ I was one of the 13
who were taken by the police from Ah Yet’s opium shop
where we were not gambling but only smoking, we were
locked up and fined, while the real gambling place was
next door. If Chinaman play Fan-Tan for 61. he is
fined; Englishmen can shake dice and send round the
bell for raffles, and he is very good man and we are very
bad man, but we shake for pounds and drinks we
get then very good meu too, and we must pay £lO poll
tax for Englishman’s justice.”
What is it ? A mysterious veil hangs over the
journalistic precincts of Barrack-street. They printed
on Monday morning, in their telegraphic columns, the
now historic cablegram about Earl Carnarvon and the
Irish Question. In the paragraph calling attention to
the said message, the writer was evidently unable suc-
cessfully to grasp the item, since he substitutes for the
noble Earl the name of another peer (Earl Granville)
who is one of Mr. Bright’s colleagues in the Glad-
stone Administration. Fancy Granville censuring
Bright! In Tuesday’s issue, they calmly say, in calling
attention to an error which has made at least half a
dozen’bus-drivers squirm, ‘‘that the mistake could have
been detected at a glance.” The editor of the D T
don’t seem to recollect that we have something else to
do with our glances besides using them for the purpose
of detecting ridiculous blunders in his paper.
Mr. Waters, of the Jumble, must have a flower
in a cup before him and his boots cleaned after writing
every paragraph. Dr. Garran scrawls with a bible on
his right and a hymn-book (Gadsby’s) on his left hand.
Some of the other gentlemen on the Lyre always write
long pars, in a profuse perspiration, owing to fighting
with each other for the spelling-books and grammars
before commencing. When Lewis writes, he dons a
pink cashmere Oriental dressing-gown and a green
smoking-cap with a gold tassel. The Zigzag man write
in spectacles, their vision having been impaired by a
continual study of a “ruby edition of the ‘Complete
Jokist.’ ” Dr. M'Gnven writes twosentences, then reads
them to his assembled olive-branches, saying, “ How’s
that for Junius?” Other less distinguished scribes
write without any extraneous aid other than that
afforded by a plank on tressels for a table and an
inverted gin-ease for a chair.
A Chinese bigwig thinks it beneath his dignity
to manufacture his own witticisms. He appreciates
wit, and he is fond of tea; but he would as soon grow
his own tea as make his own jokes. When he goes into
society he carries a packet of prepared witticisms and
repartees, which he has purchased at the nearest joke
shop. When conversation flags, and he perceives an
opportunity of saying something brilliant, he draws a
humorous remark from the top of his package, and
gravely hands it to his neighbour. The latter as gravel/
reads it, and, selecting from the bundle of repartees
the one which is most appropriate, returns it with a
bow to the original joker. The two then solemnly
smile in a courteous and undemonstrative way, and
resume their conversation, satisfied as to their having
acquitted themselves with conspicuous brilliancy!
There’s a “ comic ” paper in this city which, whenever
it tries to have what it calls fun at the expense of The
Bulletin, reminds us of the Chinaman.
It is generally known that the Mail’s staff
consists of twenty-five missionaries and five square
meddlers. Well, one of these gentlemen has such a
good opinion of himself that he thinks he could make
almost anything. He told his cousin the other day
that he could make a clock, and, give him a few old
nails and a kerosene tin, and he’d turn out a nrize
reaper on the shortest notice, The other day he in-
formed someone that he could write the whole Bulle-
tin by himself easily He was doubtless confused by
the name of our paper. We have had experience, when
spelling through the Meddler that he can perpetrate
any amount of the ‘‘first syllable” of our title— The
Bulletin— but there he would have to stop. If this
straight statement won’t convince him, we will en-
deavour to do so by a conundrum. ‘‘lf it takes twenty-
five mules and missionarif s to write the ‘ Meddler’ in
the Mail, how many missionaries and mules would it
take to write The Bulletin ?’* Mr. Dowling, please
copy.
The Boxing-day number of the Morning De-
lirium says : —“ By land and water, to-day will be
given up to recreation in every form." An explanation
seems to be wanted here. Brandy-and-water must
surely be meant. But then this is nothing new. The
agonized citizen who endeavours to wade through the
Delirium is continually brought up with a round turn,
breathless and perspiring with perplexity. In another
paragraph, in the same issue, we come upon one more
appalling mystery. The writer says—” Between 3 and
4 o’clock on the afternoon of Christmas Day, the dead
body of a man, whose name is at present unknown, was
found floating in the water between the Corporation
Baths and Lady Macquarie’s Chair. The remains were
taken to the dead-house at the Circular Quay, where
they now lie awaitingidentiflcationardinqnest.” Now
this certainly appears all correct and comfortable, and
just as the reader has sipped his coffee and murmured,
‘‘Come! they’re improving,” his brain undergoes pre-
liminary softening by following on the par, and reading
—*• The body awaits identification at the Cnmberland-
street station.” Now either the unfortunate deceased
had two bodies to one spirit, or else the writer had a
good deal of spirit in only one body.
The smiling colony of New South Wales pos-
sesses many distinguished writers. Among them may
be chronicled Peter Campbell, Alfred Allen, Dean
Leonard, Phil. M'Carroll, and Lewis Scott—especially
Lewis Scott. The latest meteor which has flashed from
the electric brain of L.S. is a prologue, written by him
for the management of the Gaiety Theatre, and spoken
On the opening night of the theatre by that popular
gentleman, Mr. J. H. Rainford. Mr. Rainford, being
always conscientious, did his best with Mr. Scott’s
effusion; but whether the composition was of too high
class a nature to be grasped by the audience, or whether,
for someotherreason, the recitation did not “go down”
in a satisfactory manner, we can’t positively say. Near
the commencement, the gifted bard states that
“We open-handed to the public come
With another pretty little Thespian home.”
Then, lower down—
“ This little nest, so beautiful and bright.
In which as friends we gather here to-night.
Shall be so kept as ever bright to last.
And in the future have a noble past.”
Quitting then the dignified and lofty, Mr. Scott lapses
into the conversational. With an admirable attention
to rhythm and metre, he sings—
“ And as a General to lead our forces on
We have no Star—we have a Thespian Sun;
Beaming with fun, genuine and farcical.
The greatest favorite Sydney had—Fred. Marshall.”
Then he goes on getting entangled in prosaic meshes —
“ The list of names your programmes give will show
How far to please you were prepared to go.”
♦ • • » *
“ We mean to give yon everything that’s new.
And ask a liberal support from yon.”
Farther on, a little, poor Lewis seems to get out of
breath, or to be seized with an attack of the spasms,
for he can’t even count his syllables or tumble into
any rhythmic groove at all. He gasps—
“ And as I’ve said mv say, I’ll go
And lewe you, friends, to enjoy the show.”
Now, seriously, we do not suppose the equal of this
couplet was ever written. Certainly we never saw it,
even in Philip Dale’s “ tightly laced” effusions. All
this, however, conclusively proves that a white tie
and spectacles are not sufficient to make even a
mediocre poet.
It was seven months ago. He (Brown), a gay
bachelor, was spending a brief holiday on the Blue
Mountains. When leaving his hotel, just before return-
ing to town, he made an entry in the visitors' book to
the following complimentary effect: —“ I and my wife
have stayed at the for a week, and we are delighted
with the place. I hope that ere long Mrs. Brown and I
may have another opportunity of enjoying the beautiful
scenery of the Mount Victoria district, the charming
hospitality of Mr. and Mrs. , and the unflagging
attentions of the polite Michael, the smartest and most
civil waiter I have ever met.” Well, the day after-
words, a kind friend read the entry aforesaid, and wrote
beneath it these words:—“ Who the deuce is * Mrs.
Brown ?* Never knew you were married.” And, again,
only four days ago. Brown’s mother, a venerable lady of
three score and ten, took up the visitors’ book, care-
fully perused the entries for months back, and (of
course) managed to alight on the familiar caligraphy
of her beloved son. “ Dear me! ” sighed the kind old
woman, “he must surely have been joking.”
A certain W.P.C. solicitor appeared, in rather a
“mixed” condition, for a prisoner the other day—
having on the previous morning, when the man had
been arrested, received his fee. He sat at the table,
sleepily blinking, when he was called out by a woman,
who gave him some instructions as to conducting a
maintenance case in which she was plaintiff. Well,
after being posted in particulars, and receiving his fee,
he just tripped across the road “ to see a man,” and
returned to the court. By this time his intellect had
become muggier than ever, so that when his male
client’s case (he was charged with larceny) was called
on, the lawyer, not only had forgotten nearly all the
particulars of the case, but had jumbled up what he did
know with those of the affiliation summons When the
man was called, the solicitor rose, and said —“ I (hie)
’pear in this case. Dis-(fcic)-graceful business. Con-
fiding creature, (hie) my client —never stole the baby—
heartless desertion by two (hie) cases fancy goods—
chil’ (hie) image of its father —’spectable man —in
position to (hie) prove un’stakeable ali-(/dc).baby.” He
was then led out by the coat-collar.
We hear that the real reason for the wild
manner in which the Daily Delirium Tremens
attacked the navy in general and the Wolverene’s
court martial in particular is found in the fact that on
the evening of the day on which the court martial was
held, a representative of the D. D. T. went on board the
flagship and asked why he had not been informed that a
court martial was to be held. He was civilly told that
it was not the custom of the service to send notice to
the press, and that it was considered sufficient warning
to anyone who wished to attend to fire the gun at 8 a m.
and hoist the Union Jack at the peak. On this he
assumed quite a bullying air, and was at once
ordered out of the ship. We are also informed that
there is a tale hanging to the savage attack made by
the Tkemens on what it calls “that perky official ’’ Mr.
Goodchap, the Commissioner of Eailways. The Vic-
torian organ of Barrack-street was not content with
being informed who were the successful tenderers for
certain public works, but it wanted also to know who
were the unsuccessful tenderers. How embarrassing to
the department in dealing with tenderers the supplying
of such information would be is known to every business
man. Sooner or later the Victorian paper will discover
that the “Black Wednesday” stj leof dealing with civil
servants won’t do in Sydney.
We have received the following enigmatical
communication :—“ To the Editor of The Bulletin.
Sir, —A little time ago I went to the Blue Mountains,
just for a week’s relaxation, and in my rambles I
stumbled on the cave of the Man of the Mountains.
He was feeding and did not appear in good humour,
but gnashed his teeth and beat his breast in the manner
of gorillas. His hair hung in ropes round his head,
and he shook with rage, and declared that the whole
range of the mountains belonged to him, and he was
writing a good deal about them in the , but that
he couldn’t describe them properly because the scenery
was always changing. I ventured to say that Claude,
Wilson, and numberless other artists succeeded very
well in painting scenery notwithstanding, and that I
could write a description of any scene I had ever beheld.
He then beat his breast again and said I couldn’t, and
if I dared to write anything to his paper he would have
it thrown into the waste-basket; and by way of im-
pressing me with his learning he began to roar about
Homer (done into English), Dr. Primrose, and Tubal
Cain, and I don’t know what besides. ‘My good go-
rilla,’ said I, ‘this is not the side of the mountains
that I at present concern myself about, and you have
nothing to fear from me. I have no intention to steal
your bread and butter, but I think your master ought
to chain you up and teach you better manners than to
roar and rave at_a quiet girl like me. So good morning,
Mr. Gorilla.’
PRISCILIA AMELIA HEMINA.”
The Daily Telegraph says the Bulletin
this i[?]


The Refere.
THE A.J.C. SUMMER MEETING.
The Randwick Races on Boxing Day were, considering
all things, a success. We say “ considering all tilings ”
liecause there were many circumstances which might
have militated against the attendance of the public.
In the first place there was the Pyrmont Regatta—a
reunion which is invariably successful in attracting a
number of (to use a phrase we believe of Meaden’s)
“ Austral’s fairest daughters.” Ladies like, as a rule,
to go to regattas, because they consider bath-towel and
blue serge costumes becoming, and there does not exist
on this earth a woman who has not rooted in her heart
of hearts that she looks better in a glazed “ Minotaur ”
hat anda Langtry jersey, that the Duchess of Gainsboro
did in the full sunshine of her beauty. The dear old
night-gown masqueraders, too, had a jaunt. Delicious
Druids! how your flowing, if not snowy garments
attract commercial female loveliness ! how the tow of
your beards ignites—as tow should—fires of delirious
phrenzy in the female heart. Then the Foresters (dear
bottle-nosed old toxopholites) took away their crowd to
Pearl Bay, while the number of disciples of old Izaak,
who went “bait-bobbing ” in the bay, and the cloud of
excursionists who explored the ghostly galleries
of the Garden Palace, and feasted on the pictures in
the Art Gallery amounted to many thousands of both
sexes. Notwithstanding, however, all those counter-
attractions, together with cricket, private “ spoon ”
parties, etc., a surprisingly large number of persons
laid themselves out to visit the races. Ladies, of course,
were scarce, but the übiquitous 'Arry, the small trades-
man, and the genus “ book”—all more or less perspir-
ing and dust-sprinkled—mustered in full force. We did
not reach the course in time for the first event, in con-
sequence of the humorous proceedings of the tramway
officials. These individuals must be born jokists, and
unless we are mistaken, go upon the lines of
Whiff, Piff, and Sniff, of Mugby Junction celebrity,
delighting to see the public writhe. The service was
so ludicrously inadequate to the wants of the people
that the whole thing was little better than a farce.
Every quarter of an hour or so, a motor with a couple
of cars would puff in amongst (say) a thousand of swel-
tering people, when the carriages would immediately be
besieged by an exasperated public, and the tram would
steam away followed by every hoarse-toned anathema
that the most prolific imagination could suggest. The
racecourse, when reached, was lively, but not crowded.
The array of vehicles was very poor, indeed—the hand-
somest “ turn-out,” in our opimon, being the ice-cream
cart, which, however, was run very close by a large
family coach, containing about two tons of legal and
journalistic talent. The “ carriage folk ” were happy,
however. Those who had carts coiled themselves
up under them, and there worried corn-beef and
pickles undisturbed by the cares of an unromantic
universe. The buggy-people “wolfed” steak pie and
lettuce, with the hood drawn up to hide the banquet
from any of the dearest friends who might be prowling
round for a mid-day cargo. The loving couples in the
cabs billed and cooed regardless of the racing and other
affairs mundane while their cabman andhis matesdrank
all their three-star and porter. The vice-regal box was one
blaze of gubernatorial splendour. There was the dear
old “Gov.” in a cut-away-coat (the gay sporting old
fellow), a white tie, and neat gray pants. There was
one son shading his complexion with a yellow silk
umbrelJ a, and another young gentleman in a shiny bell-
topper, and a very distressing display of white gaiter.
Both mounted Brobdiagnagian binoculars, and each one
looked like a modernized Alexander Sekirk—monanch
of all he surveyed. Lady Loftus had a striped
purple polonaise, made of some light material,
and a darker skirt of silk. A lady next to
her was in white cashmere, trimmed down the front
with quilted satin. She wore a violet bonnet. Another
lady wore a mauve dress with a straw bonnet ornamented
with a magnificent white feather. About the paddock
we noticed Hilly, that smiling mystery in Savage’s last
triumph in the way of a light suit; Joe Thompson in a
cloudy white linen “duster.” The money-lend-
ing talent mustered extensively and hovered
round the “plungers” in an ominous manner. The
night of Himmelhoch, Friedman, and Rogalsky
walking arm in arm caused many a “ heavy swell” to
hastily look over at the green hills and become deeply
interested in the scenery. A well-known boniface
passed the vice-regal box simultaneously with our-
selves, and was rewarded by a not very cordial bow from
their excellencies. We wondered at the time if any
thing in the last £3 case ordered by the gubernatorial
butler could have disagreed with the dear old people.
Bonifaces were in shoals. There was Perkins giving
every one he met the latest San Francisco
“ griffin; ” Tidswell, who was eloquent about his prize
turnips, but mournful at the degeneration of mankind
in pandering to a depraved system of threepenny
drinks. There was Hunt, of the International, sur-
rounded by a bevy of ladies, and looking, amidst the
flowing laces and flashing rubies, as though the mys-
teries of a counter-lunch were to him a thing unknown.
The accomplished host of the Metropolitan was
also doing his share of giving the fair ones a treat; and
as his eagle eye scanned the starters, he, towering
above the smaller fry, could feel himself the observed
of observers. The sight of the day, however, was the
presentation by Lady Loftus, to Mr. T. S. Clibborn, of
the Governor’s Cup, won by his horse Esmonde. Mr.
Clibborn, who always looks lovely, even in his break-
fast slippers, appeared—when gracefully bowing, one
hand on his heart and the other stretched out to clutch
the somewhat bizarre piece of plate, (the slanting beams
of Phcebus illumining the while with a fringe of gold his
curling locks)—more, far more than ethereally splendid
Loud were the cheers, hoarse were the congratulations
as he staggered away with the trophy; and we, on our
side, add our little meed of felicitation, and trust Mr.
Clibborn will win many more goblets in a like
manner though rather of a better shape
Our friend the lawn gatekeeper, in the dear old familiar
blue check suit and brown bluchers, was again on duty,
every nob on his expressive face shining with the milk
of human kindness. We left as the first evening shadow
descended upon the Randwick heights, and journeyed
philosophically home in a licensed two-horse carriage,
with an apple woman on one side of us and an elevated
Temora digger on the other. The trip home was tran-
quil, as only one man fell off the top of the coach, and
the leaders merely turned round and looked in at the
off-side windows on two or three occasions. Subjoined
are particulars of the various events: —
Thkee-veae-old Handicap, of 100 sovs. One mile.
Mr. J. Cook’s Windsor Belle, 7st 21b (Rayner) ... 1
E. De Mestre’s Guinea, Bst 31b (Ramsay) 2
S. Harding’s Childers, 7st M‘Kay 3
F. Wentworth’s Otira. Bst 0
H. Herbert’s Carmen 7st 91b 0
W. Archer’s Boniface, 7st 71b 0
J. A. Dallas’s Dictator, 7st 4)b 0
T. Ivory’s West Country Dick, 6st 71b 0
Betting ; 5 to 4 Carmen, 3 to 1 Dictator, 4 to 1 the
field. West Country Dick was left at the post by a bod
s"art, but he made a splendid effort, and led at the back
of the course. At the rocks, Dictator and Carmen
made their effort, and the latter fell back beaten. In
the straight, Guinea and Windsor Belle came to the
front, and a good race ensued, Windsor Belle winning
cleverly. Time, 1m 45 8-10 s.
The December Stakes of 10 sovs each, sft, with 2CO
sovs added, for two-year-olds t second horse, 50 sovs
from the prize. Distance, 5 ifurlongs.
Mr. A. Chimside’s Spinningdale, Bst 71b (R.
Connor) 1
J, A. Dallas’s Marmora, Bst 101 b (Pigott) 2
J. Mayo’s The Gem, B*t 101 b (Hanks) S
F. Wentworth’s Mistletoe, Sst-lOlb 1
S. Harding’s Loftus, Bst 101 b 0
W. J. Dangar’s Queensbarry, Bst 71b 0
R. Skutthorpe’s Flora, Sst 71b 0
H. J. Adams’ Whirlwind, Sst 71b (
A. Chirnside’s Estelle (late Stella), Sst 71b ... (■
E. De Mestro’s Aei, Bst 71b 0
Betting: 6 to 4 Spinningdale, 2 to 1 Marmora, 4 to
1 any others. A tolerable start was effected. Queens-
berry leading into the straight. A fine race home en-
sued, Spinningdale winning by a good length from Mar-
mora. Time, 1m 3 6-10 s.
The Governor’s Gup, presented by his Excellency,
with a sweepstake of 5 sovs each. For three-year-
olds and npwards that have never won a prize ex-
ceeding 50 sovs in value, except in jumping or
amateur races. Bidden by amateurs, members of
recognised racing or hunt clubs. One mile and a
quarter.
Mr. T. S. Clibborn’s Esmonde, aged, 12st 41b (Mr.
W. Gosper) ••• 1
M. Sheehan’s Templar, 3yrs, lOst 101 b (Mr.
J. G. Gosper) 2
W. A, Long’s Hildebrand, 3 yrs, lOst 101 b (Mr. 3
Lloyd) 0
W. R. Cortis’ Attila (late Caractacus) 4 yrs,
list 111 b 0
W. Kite’s Mirabilis, 3 yrs, lOst 101 b 0
Q. Fagan's Julian, 3 yrs, lOst 101 b 0
Betting: 6t04 on the field. Esmonde got well away
through a very indifferent start, Hildebrand and Attila
following. The order was kept up till entering the
straight, when Templar made a grand rush, but could
not succeed in overtaking Esmonde. Time, 2m 19 5-10 s.
The Selling Plate of 100 sovs, for 3 years and up-
wards. Weight for age. Distance li mile. The
winner to be sold for 11100.
Mr. E. Wam’s Blackbird, 6 yrs, 7st (Emsworth) ... 1
W. E. Cortis’ Yril, syrs, 7st (Eeid) 2
J. M'Connell's Kelso, 6 yrs, 7st (Nicholson) ... 3
T. S. Clibbom’s Esmonde, aged, 7st 0
W. Archer’s Boniface (late Baronet), 3yrs,
Ostlllb „ 0
Level betting on the field. A good start. Boniface
swerved at the turn, and afterwards bolted. Yril led
all the way round. Blackbird came up in the straight,
and won by a length after a gallant struggle. Time, 2m
16 4-10 s.
The Summer Cup ; a handicap sweepstakes of 10 sovs
each, 5 forfeit, with 200 sovs added; second horse
50 sovs from the prize. Distance, one mile and
a-half.
Mr. J. Dnrgin’s Milbrodale, 6yrs, sst 121 b
(Cracknell) 1
J. Ashworth’s Stratheam, 6yrs, 7st 41b
(Williamson) 2
J. Burton’s Hesperian, 4yrs, Bst (Colley) ... 3
F. Wentworth’s Rapid Bay, aged, Bst 101 b
(Wilkinson) ®
D. White’s Maori (late Auckland), 6yrs,
Bst 41b, (Gardiner) 0
J. R. Nowlan’s Sunlight, syrs, 7st 121 b
(Martineer) 0
E. de Mestre’s His Lordship, syrs, 7st
101 b (Riley) 0
P. Brennan’s Creswick, Syrs, /st 61b
(Norton) 0
W. Forrester’s The Dean, 6yrs, 7st 21b
(McKay) 0
E. de Mestre’s Chesterfield, 4yrs, 6st 101 b
(Nicholson) 0
D. Mayne’s Nancy Lee, Syrs, 6st 81b
(Emsworth) 0
E. Lynch’s Bulgaria, aged, 6s 81b (Elwin) ... 0
H. Herbert’s Carmen, 3yrs, 6st 4lb
(Burton) 0
E. Rouse’s Retrospect, 4yrs, 6st (Rayner) ... 0
G. Donnelly’s Eosinante, syrs, sst 101 b
(Nerrika) ... 0
E. Bird’s Valetta, aged, sst 71b (Gains-
forth) 0
Chas. Kerrigan’s Marquis, aged, sst 71b 0
Betting, 5 to 2 Eosinante, 3 to 1 Milbrodale, 5 to 1
Hesperian, 7 to 10 to 1 any other. A capital start,
Milbrodale taking the lead at once, and holding it
easily all the way. A great race took place between
Strathearn and Hesperian for second place. Carmen
was last. Time, 2m 38 5-10 s.
Two-Year-Old Plate of 100 sovs ; five furlongs.
Mr. W. A. Long’s Sang Froid, 8s 31b (Gains-
forth) 1
S. W. Knight’s Raymond, Bst3lb (Ramsay) ... 2
J. Cook’s Rebecca. Bst (Bams) 8
J. Cook’s Parole, Bst 3lb 0
W. Kite’s Kal Kal, Bst 31b 0
E. McCarty’s Miss Queensland, Bst 0
E. Lee’s Shipcka, Bst 0
H. Herbert’s Eosella, Bst 0
Betting, 6 to 4 Schipka. 2 to 1 Sang Froid, 3 to 1 any
other. A bad start, Eosella left at the post, and
Scb> pka and Sang Froid all behind. Raymond, Rebecca,
and Sang Froid were all whipping in the straight, and
the latter forged a-bead just at the post, after a capital
race. Time, 1m 5 8-10 s.
The Free Handicap of 100 sovs, for 3-year-olds and
upwards ; distance, one mile and three furlongs.
Mr. H. C. Dangar’s Courtenay, 4yrs, 6s 71b
(Rayner) 1
J. Lloyd’s Eros, Syrs, 6st 7lb (Nicholson) ... 2
J. Mayo’s Black Swan, 6yrs,9st 41b (Hinks) ... 3
B. Richard’s Kamilaroi, 3yrs, Bst 0
T. McFadden’s Tattoo, 6yrs, 7st 101 b 0
E. Bird’s Gamester, aged, 6st 0
S. Harding’s Childers, 3yrs, ost 101 b 0
Betting, 2 to 1 Courtenay, 3 to 1 Eros and Black
Swan, 7to 2 any other. A good start, Courtenay,
Kamilaroi, and Tattoo leading nearly all round. At
the rocks ihe two latter fell back beaten. In the
straight Courtenay still led, with Eros and Black Swan
coming very fast. Eros made a grand race of it,
Courtenay beating him by a head. Time, 2m 27 8-10 s,
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
6 to 4 on Grand Flaneur for the Champion Race.
Strathearn ran second again. Will he ever ran
first?
First King is scratched for the Champion
Stakes.
The Bulladelah races take place on January 3rd
and 4th.
Sweetmeat starts for the Champion Race on
New Year’s Day.
The Shoalhaven Annual Regatta will come off
on 28th January.
Hiddlestone’s batting is greatly admired by
Victorian critics.
Lots of prizes in Melbourne for the fortunate
ones in the Intercolonial.
The Totalisator Bill for Victoria was rejected
by the Legislative Council.
The members of the Press in Victoria give evi-
dence in favour of the Totalisator.
The booths and gates for the Lithgow races
realized £130; for the athletic sports, £Bl.
The Stanmore C.C. defeated the Maitland
Albion C.C. at West Maitland by 45 runs.
The Newcastle Club made 324 runs against the
Morpeth Club, the latter making only 95.
Milbrodale ought to win Tattersall’s Cup, after
his Summer Cup’.racing. Secundus has to be beaten.
D. Campbell and D. Gregory are to select the
Combined Team to play against the Australian Eleven.
The latest news abant Hanlan and Laycock is
that both are in excellent health, and are doing good
work.
The Electric Telegraph Department in Victoria
can boast of a rowing club. What is our boys’ speci-
ality ?
Entrances for Sydney Cup close on Ist February.
The conditions are the same as usual. 500 sovs.
added.
The well-known N.Z. cross country horses,
Scamp and Kildare, have broken their necks while
racing.
Atlnverell, Ellis offers to run Perrit 50 yards for
1 any amount and concede him a yard in the distance
named.
The welshers were conspicuous by their absence
from the Saddling Paddock on Boxing Day and Wed-
nesday.
The odds were ridiculously short at Randwick
on Monday. Milbroiale was a good win for the
“books.”
What has become of the 700 bookmakers who
“got round” on the hill at Flemington during the
Melbourne Cup ?
The Warwick C.C was badly represented in the
Woollongong match. Only six men batted. The Illa-
warra C.C. scored 50 and 48, and the Warwicks 29 and
20. It is scandalous that a country club should be
suffered to make extensive arrangements to receive a
first-class eleven from town, and then have to meet the
paltry team that did come. It is easily seen that the
secretary was not about.
The balance-sheet of the Ballarat Coursing Club
shows a credit of £5 17s. 6d. on that year’s transactions.
£777 expended in prizes.
A 72-hour bicycle race, at the Waverley Market,
Edinburgh, was won by Eoberts, a professional, who
covered 1,001 miles 10 laps.
James Mace, it is said, has amassed a large
fortune. He is undecided whether he will remain in
the colonies for any length of time.
Massie got a duck-egg in a match played against
the Kew Asylum Club by the Bohemians. He was
bowled by Trumble the second ball.
Grand Flaneur did a sensational gallop at
Flemington on Tuesday week. After going three times
round the tan he ran a mile in Im. 50s.
At the Colac (Yic.) regatta, the Corio four,
stroked by that great oarsman, G. E. Upward, beat the
Colac crew (Pearson, stroke) by a length.
Why do owners give their horses French names?
Nobody pronounces them properly, and if a fellow does
air his French by trying to do so, he is laughed at.
Edwin Bibly, the celebrated English wrestler,
and Clarence Whistler were to decide a match at New
York on Nov. 19 for the championship of America.
The match between the Sydney Corio C.C. and
the Singleton Corio C.C. resulted in a win for the
latter; Singleton, 98 and 127. and Sydney, 66 and 43.
The New South Wales Bowing Association holds
its annual meeting this (Thursday) evening. It is pro-
posed to reduce the number of club delegates from
three to two.
One man selects the Victorian team, and pleases
everybody. It takes three to pick our eleven, and yet
some cricketers are not happy. But then we have so
many good men.
The Perseverance and Excelsior Clubs played a
match on Saturday in Moore Park, resulting in a victory
for the former club by nine runs. The P.C.C. scored
73, and the E.C.C. 64.
The Highland Society Sports on New Year’s
Day bid fair to be very attractive. The events are well
filled. For the Sheffield Handicap there are 30 entries,
and for the Walking Handicap 33.
A half-mile spin for .£2O took place on New-
castle Eace Course, on Wednesday last, between
Dessaid’s Shamrock and Cook’s Moonlite, resulting in
a win for the former after a good race.
The Shoalhaven Turf Club has been resuscitated,
and its first meeting will be held on 12th and
13th [January. For the Turf Club handicap there are
six entries, and for the Ladies’ Purse, nine.
The “books” don’t dress so loudly as they
were wont to do. The Leviathan, once the spruce and
dandy Joe, with incomparable “ soup and slang,’’ now
subsides into a suit of decent grey and a slouched
hat.
The New Zealand yacht Taniwha, built for the
special purpose of contesting in the forthcoming Inter-
colonial Yacht Eace, left Auckland for Melbourne on
4th Dec. Her building cost £l5OO. She arrived in Mel-
bourne on the 26th.
The challenge issued by Mr. Johns, owner of
the horse Native Cat, to trot anything in New Zealand,
has been accepted by Mr. Kirkwood, who was to nomi-
nate his horse a few days after the mail left. The stake
will be £3OO or £5OO.
The scratching of Sweetmeat created great
consternation amongst sporting men. While certain
backers were putting another pound on him in Sydney,
he was suffering the inconvenience of an overland
journey to Melbourne.
Hawdon, in November, offered to take a start
of four lengths from Boyd over the Thames course.
Boyd’s reply was that he would allow Hawdon the start
in question, but that, being out of condition, he could
not row for at least three months.
The results of the Lithgow Races on Monday
are : Maiden Plate : Mermaid, 1; Speculation 2.
Miners’ Purse: Partner, 1; Artful Joe, 2. Town Plate ;
Speculation, 1; Claymore, 2. There were not sufficient
entries for the Champagne Stakes.
A 220 yards’ swim, for the amateur champion-
ship, a silver challenge-cup and medals, took place at
the Lambeth Baths, London, Oct. 14, with this result:
E. C. Daniels, 1, in 3m. 9j-s.; |W. E. Itter, 2, by four
yards; G. Dunmore, 3, by two yards.
At Charters Towers, the other day, John Davey
and George Pollock, two well-known local pedestrians,
ran 150 yards for a small stake. Pollock receiving two
yards’ start. The latter, who won easily, was to run
W. Kendall on Boxing Day for £25 a-side.
The lengthening shadows on the Melbourne
ground near the close of the day may have had some-
thing to do with the collapse of our men in the first
innings. Massie knocked off Cooper, the slow bowler.
He came on again, and collared Charley Bannerman and
Jones.
The new judge, Mr. H. C. Hangar, has not covered
himself with glory as yet. Though the majority of
starts Monday were satisfactory, there were too many
false starts too much absence of a knack of
seizing a fair chance of gettinglthe horses away on level
terms.
The Trotting Matches at Adelaide resulted as
follows Maiden; Ginger Beer, 1; Captain Dearborn, 2;
Bellfounder, 3. Pony Trot: Jessie, 1; Donny, 2. Dis- j
tance Handicap: Ginger Beer, 1; Brown Hawke, 2;
Bellfounder, 3. Mile-and-a-half Handicap : Blossom, 1;
Jim, 2; Jessie, 3.
For the A.J.C. Summer Meeting on Boxing
Day, the booths were sold for £112; cake and fruit
stalls, £2O; Leger Stand, £80; and the gates, £405;
total. £617. For the Sydney Turf Club Meeting on
Wednesday, the Leger Stand brought £25, the gates,
£145, and the booths and stalls, £62; total, £232.
Races took place at Tamworth on Monday, with
the following results Maiden Plate : Salvator, 1;
Cinderella, 2 ; Eoxborough, 3. Flying Handicap: Sal-
vator, 1; Leighton, 2 ; GnyLad, 3. Christmas Handi-
cap : Pride, 1; Norma, 2; Sepia, 3. Peel Eiver
Handicap : Eaindeer, 1; Sir Eoger, 2 ; Leighton, 3.
The Highland Gathering promises to be a great
success, the various athletic sports being well supported.
The two chief events—the Sheffield Handicap of 200
yards, and the Walking Handicap of 11 mile —have
secured respectively 31 and 38 entries, including the
leading pedestrians from all parts, and should produce
some exciting sport.
Mr. M‘Crae. of Ballarat, a clever young shot,
won the Hamilton (V'ic.) pigeon handicap, killing 13
birds out of 14; whilst Messrs. M’Kellar, Gill, and
Cresswell were only one point behind him. In shooting
off Mr. M’Kellar distinguished himself by killing tom-
birds each time at the first attempt, one of those shots
being a particularly magnificent one.
The Wallseud races were well patronised and
resulted as follows :—Flying Handicap : Woodlands, 1;
Clifden, 2; Verdict, 3. Prince of Wales’ Stakes:
Bothwell, 1; Darkio, 2; Elos, 3. Wallsend Town
Plate: Eosebud, 1; Verdict, 2; Volunteer. 3. Hnrdle-
Haek Eace : Priam, 1; Lady Agnes. 2. Trial Stakes :
Lochinvar, 1; St. Clair, 2; Stanley, 3.
The colonial Press is following in the wale of
that of England in “slating” the Australian Elevearfor a
too close regard for gate-money. Certainly, the last
English team was strictly a speculation, but “ ®ir
boys” would not have come in for their share of blame
in the colonies if they bad shut up shop and played in
the intercolonial match according to promise.
The results of the Morphetvillo Races (Adelaide)
on Monday, were: —Hurdle Ence; Miss Banter, 1;
Encounter, 2; Blacklook, 3. Flying Handicap: Sir
Charles. 1; Meg Merrilies, 2. Christmas Cup: Elec-
tricity,!; Aurora, 2; Cornet, 3. Steeplechase; War-
rior, 1; Charlie, 2; Lightfoot, 3. Telegraph Handicap :
Meg Merrilies, 1; Struck Oil, 2; Henrietta, 3.
The Northern Miner (Charters Towers), in
noticing an illustrated paper, says : “There is a group
of the Australian cricketers. As types of Amti-nban
physique and beauty they are verv low. Tb.je is a
good deal of * pug' about the lot. There is a large car-
toon of [the champion oarsmen. Trickett looks mean
and weedy near Hanlon, who has the thews and sinews
of a Milo and the frank open look of aman.” But then
Teddy, Milo, though strong enough to carry an ox,
doesn’t always win. “Pug” is the man when it comes
to ding-dong work.
The following are the results of the Williama-
town (Vic.) Races, on Monday:—Hurdle Race: P.G., 1;
Dhwurringle, 2; Zephyr, 3. Truganini Stakes: Gover-
ness, 1; Harp of Erin, 2; Chatterer, 3. Galloway
Stakes: Midnight, 1; Robin Hood, 2; Cock Robin, 3.
Steeplechase : Intrepid, 1; Scotchman, 2; Planet, 3.
Telegraph Stakes : A.T., 1; Sauntress, 2; Nunnykirk, 3.
Williamstown Handicap: Congoola, 1; Kilmany, 2 ;
Blue Ribbon, 3.
Mr. J. Long, of the firm of Messrs. Long and
Co., Melbourne, will present the winning team of the
Intercolonial Match with a grand trophy, consisting of
a claret punch bowl with twelve goblets attached, the
trophy to be won three times in succession before it
can become the property of either colony. It was
manufactured at Wallinghara, U.S., and is valued at 5(1
guineas. It is on show at the American Court in the
Exhibition.
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club December
Meeting came off on the 18th ultimo. The Hurdle Race
was won by Cumberland, Dhurringile 2. and Nimrod 3.
—Amateur Flat Race, about 1 mile: Kilmany 1, Cam-
ballot, Napper Tandy,3.—The Steeplechase : Intrepid 1,
Planet 2, Verdi 3. —December Handicap, 1 mile and a
quarter: Soothsayer 1, Trump Yoss 2, Mulatto 3.
Selling Stakes, half-a-mile: Illumination 1, A. J. 2,
Austin Elliott 3.
The Australian team met with a grand reception
in Tasmania. The Mayor of Launceston received them
at the Town Hall, and gave them an official welcome ;
the Attorney-General (the Hon. J. S. Dodds) gave
them, on behalf of the Southern Tasmanian Cricket
Association and the colonists of Tasmania, a most
excellent accueil. Mr. Murdoch, speaking for the team,
expressed great satisfaction with the cordial hospitality
with which they had been received in Tasmania.
The Victorian Press scored a victory against
the Parliament in their annual cricket match. For
the Press, MeWhirter scored 68, and M Culloch 48.
Gardiner, the footballer, was the highest scorer for
Parliament with 18. The Press made 172, and the
Parliament 68. Imbued with the spirit of its Victorian
brethren, The Bulletin staff is ready to tackle eleven
of our new House —we bar Sir Henry and the Colonial
Treasurer ; the former is too good a pitcher, and the
latter knows too much about semes.
At Wagga Wagga, on Boxing Day, a day’s
sport was improvised, including a foot race, 150 yards’
handicap, won by Goovey, Jeploson, 2; Bartell, 3.
The following are the racing events:—Maiden Plate:
Mosquito, 1; Snowflake, 2; Josephine, 3. Selling
Stakes: Dundee, 1; Bab-at-Bowster, 2. Christmas
Handicap: Scud and Johnny Crapaud, dead heat.
Hurdle Race: Maritana, 1; Skipper, 2. Galloway
Race: Needle, 1; Gazelle, 2; Governor, 3. Flying
Handicap, Vanity, 1; Snowflake, 2; Mosquito, 3,
In the match Australian v. Launceston
Eighteen, the Eleven score*. heir first innings—
Groube, not out, SO; Palmer.. .. le, 63; M’Donnell,
58; Murdoch, 48; Bannerman . ' Blackman, 21 each ;
Slight, 19. The Eighteen scored, in their first innings,
74 —Milner making 15, and Butler and Sidebottom 11
each. The second innings closed for 137—Watson
making 34, Douglas 25, E. Butler 20, and Swan 18. The
Eleven won by 222 runs in one innings. Spofforth, in
the two innings, got 13 wickets, and Palmer 21.
The Christmas meeting of the Parramatta
Jockey Club, on the Park course, Parramatta, came off
on Monday. The Cumberland band was in attendance,
and played selections throughout the day. Mr. Hugh
Taylor, in the absence of Mr. Famell, officiated as
Judge. Six events were on the programme, which
resulted as follows :—Handicap Hurdle Race; two
miles. —Basilisk 1, Sleet 2, Boliver 3. Trial Stakes;
one mile. —O heron 1, Trump 2, SirenS. Selling Race;
one mile. —Wagga Wagga 1, Victor 2, Beeswing 3.
Christmas Handicap; one mile and a half.—Masquerade
1, Love Not 2, Oboron 3. Galloway Handicap ; seven
furlongs.—Lady Chester 1, Johnny Smoker 2, Isabella 3.
Forced Handicap ; one mile. —Oberon 1, Victor 2,
Wagga Wagga 3.
The time of the Laycock-Eiley race was 25m. 4s.
The betting at the start was 3 to lon Lay cock. At
Hammersmith Bridge Riley was leading slightly,
Laycock rowing easily. Immediately after passing the
bridge Laycock began to forge ahead, and maintained
the lead throughout. At Mortlake, though the men
were fairly well together, Laycock had the race in
hand, and might have won as he pleased, Riley being
hopelessly dead-beaten. Riley had a slight advantage
at the start. He rowed 41 strokes per minute, and
Laycock 38. When a mile had been traversed
Laycock had decreased the lead, but almost im-
perceptibly. Riley was still leading by three-quarters
of a length at Hammersmith Bridge. About 200
yards past the bridge both men spurted, and Lay-
cock succeeded in getting level with Riley just before
Chiswick Eyot was reached, and opposite the Eyot he
shot past Riley like an arrow. He was three lengths-
to the good opposite Chiswick Church, and thenceforth
it was a mere procession, though Riley rowed gamely
to the end. His time was seven seconds longer than
Lay cock’s.
ThePyrmont Eeggutta, held on Monday, proved
to be one of the most successful gatherings of the
festive season. The manner in which all arrange-
ments were completed reflects the greatest credit
upon the committee. The Pacific mail ship Australia
was gaily decorated as the flag-ship for the occasion,
and the luncheon was served up by Compagnoni and
Co. in a most creditable manner. The results of the
racing aie as follow; —Boys, 16 years and under,
12-ft, dingies, single sculls ; Young Australia, J t
Yates, 1; Bnrwood, J. H. Ryan, 2; Grasshopper,
P. Barker, 3. All Bona-fide Amateurs, in eight
skiffs, single sculls : Novice, C. W. Gaden, 1 ;
M.R.C., W. G. Brett, 2; Demon, W. Bailey, 3,
Canvas Dingies, under canvas, time allowance
1 minute per foot, amateur crews, youths not exceeding
20 years of age : Daisy, 13 feet, i minute, A. Roderick,
I. Dingies not exceeding 14 feet, under canvas: Alive,
J. Crawford, 1; Plague, J. W. Farquhar, 2; Nea, W.
Mitchell, 3. Maiden Single Sculls, for all amateurs, in
working club skiffs; 5.R.0., A. Ickisou, 1; I’ll Try, G.
Reid, 3 ; Betsy, M.R.G., A. Coker, 3. Skiffs, under can-
vas. not exceeding 19 feet in length, 5 feet beam, 20
inches deep, amateur crews : Lucia, A. J. Soutar, was
the only starter. Dingies, under canvas, not exceeding
15 feet in length, 5 feet beam, 20 inches deep: X.L.C.R.,
W. H. Gildrov, 1; Regina, J. Middleton, 2; Othello, J.
Stevens, 3. All Amatt urs, in light skiffs, single sculls :
Chester, C. Reynolds, 1; Brothers, S. Jenkins, 2;
Bessie, J. S. Power, 3. All bona fide employes, who
reside or work in Pyrmont, and who have never won a
prize at a public regatta, single sculls, in licensed
watermen’s boats: C. Messenger,!; J. Heaton, 2; J.
M’Clerken, 3. All yachts, exceeding 8 tons, handicapped.
Special prize, cup valued at 1:50, presented by Aider-
man John Harris. Oithona, 15 tons. Dr. Mackellar, 1
(time allowance, two minutes); Waitangi, 22 tons, J.
Newton, scratch; Daphne did not start. All yachts not
exceeding 8 tons, handicapped. Prize, trophy, valued at
£25. Australian, 6 tons, scratch, E. French, 1; Doris, 5
tons, Dr. Milford. 2; time allowance, Cm. AU-comers in
wager-boats. Prize, £3O. S-asie, H. Pearce, 1; Young
Australia, W. Trickett, 2; Annie. J. Power, 3; Mabel,
J. Laycock, 0 ; Pearce won rather easily, although
Trickett rowed well till the latter part of the race.
Laycock and Power fouled. Time, 17m 20s. Members
of rowing clubs who have never won a senior our race,
in string-test gigs, pulling four oars, with eoxswains.
M.R.C., C. Williams, A. P. Bros, W. G. Brett, 0. A.
Bros (stroke). 1; Pyrmont M.R.C., F. Hebblewhite, A.
Cohen, M. Fitzgerald, C. Hanson (stroke) 2. Open
boats, under canvas, not exceeding 24ft, not less than
7ft beam and 3ft deep, any crews. Victor, G. Elliott,
1; Dreamland, Dr. Belisario, 2. Open boats, under
canvas, not exceeding 22ft in length, 6ft Cinin beam,
and not less than 2ft 6in in depth; time allowance, liu
per foot; no boat to rank less than 20ft; amateur
crews. Rosetta, H. Clarke, 1; Vision, P. De Mestre, 2.
Residents of Pyrmont and Ultimo who have resided
there at least six months prior to date of entry, who
have never won a prize at a public regatta, pulling
double sculls in working club skiffs, with coxswains.
Chester, C. Messenger, J. M'Clerken, 1; Clara,
J, Heaton, W. Plunket, 2; Viola, T. Roddan,
D. Monroe. 3. Youths under twenty-one years
of age at date of race, residents of Pyrmont or
Ultimo ; amateurs who have never won a prize at a
public regatta, pulling single sculls, in woiking club
skiffs : Chester, J. McClerken, 1; Alice, W. Plunkett,
2; Macbeth, J. Mclntosh, 3. All comers, pulling
double sculls, in working’ clnh skiffs, with coxswains r
Vivid, H. Pearce, J. Lynch, 1; Chester, C. Reynolds,
W. Trickett, 2. All licensed watermen, handicapped,
plying for hire in Port Jackson, in licensed watermen’s
boats not less than 22 feet in length : Susie, H. Pearce,
1001 b, 1; Onr Fred., G. Nash, a feather, 2. Gig and
dingy chase : Qeebung (gig), J- Barnet; (dingy),
W. Stephens. After an exciting chase, lasting lass
than ten minutes, the dingy was caught.
January 1, 1881.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JB. T O U D A L E,
• FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
656 GEOEGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J^AVTD
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT' CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready,
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest.'
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours. Well ■
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s 6d
per suit.
JJAVTD
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Bac Suits,
(The latest shape; a uae-\
ful and durable suit 35s per
for business and ordi- ' suit,
nary wear.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
lln light Homespuns and’
thin Cheviots and Ban- 42s per
nockburns. for Spring ’ Suit,
and Summer wear.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
{ln Choice Oriental )
Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
general wear, in neat f per suit
checks and mixtures. )
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
{Specially Light and'i
Durable, the materials |
having been well [-
shrunk before being j
made up.
63s per
suit.
JJAYID
JONES AND
COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
{ln Superior Oriental
Tweeds, cut in the
latest style, and
finished the same as
ordered clothing.
68s 6d
per suit.
JJAYID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Serg Suits.
{
Beautifully light in
Texture, permanent in
colour and very dur-
able in wear.
38s 6d
per suit
■J^AYID
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
la all the
Newest
Materials, well
out, and nicely
finished.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
('Special attention is in-')
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Gcnlemens
the best value, and J- Orient •
most perfect in style I Clothing,
and flush procurable |
_ in the colony. J
{
In Superior Tasmanian
Flannel, thoroughly
shrunk.
18s 6d
{
China Silk Goats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
DAVID
In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
flu fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
■< In Black Merino, 30s.
(.In Super Sergerette, 555.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
~ „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s fid.
(In Superior, all Wool~)
•< Tambary Tweed, well > 30s each
(. finished. )
r A Special Dress Over-'j
I coat, silk trimmings, |
< and facings, beauti- !-
fully tight, and agree- I
65s
able to wear.
JONES AND COMPANY.
JJOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SPRING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of materiiU cannot he sold at lower
rates.
("THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Rooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
now displaying. The importations
comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies’
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies’ Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
. ments, &c
THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. We have a large
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s; Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25sto 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
every size.
THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
signs and trimmings. An immense
variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens.
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 80s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colours, and
_ other fabrics, &c.
THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS,—Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4|d
to B|d; French Percales, from 9|d
to 14d; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk.
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
A C H CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN’’ of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OP LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
■Jj/J" ANNIX BROTHER S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
POE
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
To Country Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
—O—
Note the address:
MANNIX EPOS.,
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.
X;
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T ADIES WILL BE MUCH INTERESTED
JLA WITH THE B AEG AIN S and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN'S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for Bsd PEE
PAIR; np-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
ymmixxmxxxxYXYmYTYYYYnrYY
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
READERS OF “ THE BULLETIN ’
recollect that
HORDERN’S,
PITT STREET,
is still
THE CHEAPEST SHOP
for all kinds of
SILKS, SATINS, AND CARPETS.
Witness the splendid
CHRISTMAS SILKS, at Is. Hd.,
• now being
EXHIBITED IN MY WINDOWS,
211 PITT STREET,
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XYYXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXYYXXXYY
Money
M
O N E Y.
MONEY,
UNION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY.
762 George-street (First Floor),
Three doors from A. Horden and Sons.
Hours : 9to 5; every evening; 7to 9.
MONEY ON EASY TEEMS,
Advanced on machinery. Farms, &c.. Leasehold and
Freehold Properties (without expense of Mortgage).
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
SECURITY: repayable by instalments as follows:
£lO by weekly instalments of £0 6 0
15
20
25
30
0 7
0 10
1 0
1 5
And in due proportion up to £lOOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
For the convenience of borrowers unable to leave
their business during the day, these offices will be
opened every Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
M
ONE Y.
MONEY.
MONEY.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONEY LENT
on Mortgage of properties in sums from £5 to £5OO,
upon the weekly, monthly, and quarterly repayment
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market, three doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-streeb next comer
King-street. Established 1859.
T
HE OSBORNE WIRE AND TWINE
SELF-BINDING HARVESTERS,
AND THE
NOB COMBINED REAPERS AND MOWERS
are the best in the market.
tsw The OSBORNE received a SPECIAL PRIZE at
Melbourne as best combined Wire and Twine Binder.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
Sole Agent.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blac
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
R
N
INTI
Of Every Description
AT REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of "THE BULLETIN#
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, ss, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES' BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OR POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JUST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OP BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESENTS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
DRESSMAKING.
MILLINERY.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR,
14s 6d„ 16s. 6d„ 215., 255.
TEOUSEES. TEOUSEES. TEOUSEES.
All wool and well shrunk
60s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED,
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
T
HE BEST AND LAEGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GAEMENTS TO OEDEE
at
J. TUENEE EOBINSON, & CO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
482 (late 484) george street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
EEDUCED PEICES!
TROUSERS TO ORDER, FROM 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
N
•S" All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
OTICE! NOTICE! NOTICE!
M. GUTHEIE,
LONDON HOUSE, 81 OXFORD-STREET,
Begs respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Wool-
lahra, Waverley, Paddington, Surry Hills, and the
public generally, that she has
NOW OPENED
those centrally situated premises 81 OXFORD-ST., for
the purpose of carrying on business as a GENERAL
DRAPER in all its branches.
THE MILLINERY,
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING, and
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENTS
Will be her special features, being under the charge of
ladies only recently from the best London Houses
Ladies, therefore, who wish to study economy, would
do well to come and see the STYLE and ELEGANCE
with which everything is turned out.
M. G would also impress upon her customers the
fact that every article being imported direct to her
own order she is in a position to sell at prices that can
not be surpassed by any House in the city, notwith-
standing all the glowing advertisements that are daily
appearing rom other Houses.
Go then to M. G.’s for your Millinery
» H mm Baby Linen
, ~ ~ Ladies’ Underclothing.
„ ~ ~ „ Dressmaking.
DON’T FORGET THE ADDRESS,
LONDON HOUSE,
81 OXFORD-STREET.
y^ONDON
TAILOEING COMPANY,
16 PARK STREET,
(Near Georga-fetreet),
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 16s.
~ Suits 635.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
MAPLES LINDSAY,
ON ; MAECHE, 96 KING STEEET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements :
First.—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADEE AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marche of the Southern Hemisphere.


Hotels, See.
O c
C1DENTAL HOTE
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
L.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Okasge.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS. AND
BEERS.
J.
C.
w
K E
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
CRATED WATERS, GINGER SEEK,
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.'S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Hotels, &c
The compasno
CAFE AND CATERING C<
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RES!
IS NOW OPE
The Company have secured tl
Marriette, late ohAf de ouisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinne:
Three hoars notice required for pr
The spacious rooms of Messn
been greatly enlarged, re-decor
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30,1880.
[OMPAGNONI PALACE <
serve up in their bef
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLL(
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATUR
Patrons of our Theatres and Coi
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAQNONI-S, opposib
AETIS’S club
Comer William and Dov
This new and splendid HOTEL h
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor
service of the A.S.N. Co. for thirty
will bo a sufficient guarantee that
the comforts of a first-class house.
The BILLIARD ROOM has 01
Tables, and is replete with every n
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, Ac.
only.
Omnibusses pass the Hotel every
J • £.
rjiHE
SYDNEY COFFEE
158 Qeorge-stroet, and 13 Ne'
Circular Quay,
IS NOW OPE1
The Premises are Three-Storiec
frontages to both George-street and
Quay, with a through depth of
into—
Gentlemen’s Dining Rooms ... 50
Ladies’ Dining Saloon (with convex
tiring room, Ac-) ...
Coffee Room
Two Billiard Rooms, Reading Roo
(all leading papers). Parlours
Rooms, rpc., Ac.
Thirty-seven Bed Rooms and an Ope
Roof, with View of Sydney Hat
The Dining Rooms, Kitchen, Baki
cook’s Department, Pantries, Lard
and spacious Shop Accommodation
a most complete manner, and quite
the demands of thousands of perso
Family and Picnic Parties supj
to order en the shortest notice and
terms.
ATTEESALL’S
TERRA HA,
PATEICK STA
(Late of Sydney and Mil
Proprietor.
W None but first class ALES, W
in STOCK,
Every attention paid to Visitors
Accomodation.
TERMS MODERA
ALCOCK’S PULL-SIZED BIL1
HORSES and BUGGY always
W Commercial Travellers and V
HAVEN supplied with Private or I
on receipt of telegram or letter. A
SHOW ROOM for Commercials.
The “ Bulletin ” Coach meets Sts
from the Hotel.
B W Z E A
TO TOUalSXS ADD OTHKB8 VlSITIW
WAIWEEA HO
(Hot Springs and Mineral Cu
NEAR AUCKLAN
LAKE HOUSE. OHINEMUT
(Sulphur and other Baths of ever]
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TEEEACE HOTEL, TA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the fai
HANA TERRACES, one of the Wo
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLEESLIE H
•4*
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTOEY :
BON ACCOED WOEKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more bnlliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
lor full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and. elrectual look. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
The Celebrated
WOLFES I
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office—24 O’CONNELL STREET.
FOSTER.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
Sole
Proprietors,
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should he carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will And a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
R.
H E L L Y E R,
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear eqnal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
rjiHE
GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
ar
Manufactured by
JOHANN MAEIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Eoyal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Eoyal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Eepub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili). 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MAEIA PAEINA,
Jiilichs-Flatz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSES. EABONE, PEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYAED SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“I hare analysed an Original Packet of The
Tasting Mixtube, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uunooloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Kabl Theodor Staigee,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWAED CLARKE, Oxford-street.
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-street.
E. S. TIGHE, Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAQEETY, Old South Head Eoad, Paddington
rOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OF
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425, per dozen.
JUNIPEE TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeop ;rs. One
trial will prove it superior to the common we.de unma-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
SP:
7*
as
tfl
&
nd
&
52
&
Qj
3
B
SUPEEIOE to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ala that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tuo same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers axe there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents,
r.
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Powell is very ill. .
Ashton’s circus has been playing at Stannifer.
Burton’s circus has had a successful season at
Young.
At latest date, Mrs. Scott-Siddons was at
Quebec.
Harwood is going to star it at the Opera House,
Melbourne.
Miss May Horan is in Melbourne with her sister
for the benefiit of her health.
“ The divine clothes-prop ” is what they now
call the celebrated Sara Bernhardt.
Kitts has taken the Melbourne Apollo. It is to
be called Kitts’ Music Hall in future.
Mrs. F. M. Bates had a well-patronised benefit
at Baldwin’s Theatre, ’Frisco, in October.
“ The Two Postboys,” at the Royal, is a trans-
lation of “ Lea Postilions de Longjameau.”
The Afghanistan Diorama, at the Temperance
Hall, announces, “ Reserved chairs, Is. 6d.”
Coppin watches Harwood like a cat to see which
way he will j amp at Melbourne Opera House.
Annie Pixley was, at the end of October, still
meeting with great success in “ M’liss,” at Boston.
A story is abroad to the effect that Modjeska,
who was all along supposed to be a Polonaise, was really
born in Ireland.
Professor Rice, the mind-reader, was to take a
benefit at the Yass Mechanics Institute last (Wednes-
day) evening.
Miss Patty Laverne is well liked in Melbourne.
She is a first-rate singer, and said to be a good actress
by those who know.
Le Tambour Major is all the go in Melbourne.
The Opera House is looking up. Mdlle. Musgrove will
take the part of Stella.
Mr. Quinton has gone to travel with Miss
Soldene as stage manager. He was formerly wardrobe
distributor to that lady.
Mrs. Fitzwilliams left Mrs. Lingard everything
she possessed on condition that her debts were paid by
that lady. They were paid.
We regret to have to announce the death of the
mother of Mr. S. Lazar, which sad event occurred at
Oeta, Woollahra, on Saturday last.
George Musgrave (Lyster’s nephew) is to be the
new lessee of the Melbourne Opera House. His
engagement is dated from the 27th ult.
Miss Lottie Graham died at London at an
interesting time. She was an old member of the
Soldene troupe. Her death is much regretted.
Mr. J. C. Williamson and Mr. Arthur Garner
organising an Opera-bouffe Company. “The Pirates
of Penzance” will be the first piece performed.
E. D. Davies, the ventriloquist, and company
did a big business at Lismore en route for Grafton,
where they opened very successfully on Boxing Night.
Miss Clara Yesey has married a. wealthy German
merchant. Miss Soldene’s sister is thus to be most
sincerely congratulated. She is happy and expectant.
The ‘‘Brisbane Star Dramatic Company”
(Messrs. Hesford, Tyrell, Ingles, Bonn, and Gibson,
and the Misses Lister, Nelson, M’Donnell, and others),
have had a fairly successful season at Gympie.
“ Good house this evening ?” said a Newcastle
citizen to Garner, when the London Comedy Company
were nlaying in the coally city. “Yes,” grimly ob-
served Arthur; “ very good : I only lost £l5 to-night. ’
Some managers think that the “legitimate
drama” means ruin writ large. Yet Henry Irving’s
receipts at the Lyceum, where nerly all the plays put
on the stage ore Shakesperian. average £50,000 annually.
Isabella M'Culloch, the celebrated soprano who
made her debut in 1867 at New York, in “ Un Ballo in
Maschera,” is dead. She was the wife of Brignoli,
who abandoned her, though she was one of the best of
women.
Speaking in Melbourne on the occasion of his
benefit, Mr. Hoskins told the audience that he had
been 40 years upon the stage, 25 of which he had passed
in these colonies, and that he hoped to spend the rest
of his days in Australia.
In the Victorian Assembly, Dr. Madden called
attention to the facts of the case in which Miss
Carrington, Miss Lily Keid, and Mr. C. H. Taylor were
recently charged at Hamilton with infanticide. Mr.
Berry promised to enquire into the matter.
It is reported that the management of the
Chesnut Theatre, in Philadelphia, has offered Mdlle.
Sara Bernhardt the use of that building rent free ; they
even undertake to pay for the gas. This latter should
be a light expense for a “star” performance.
Edmund Kean once heard a stage-carpenter
thus settle the pretensions of impersonators of Hamlet :
“ You may talk of Henderson and Kemble and this new
man,” said the carpenter, “but give me Bannister’s
Hamlet. He was always done twenty minutes sooner
than any one of ’em."
As De Pasqualis was singing “ Rigoletto ”
lately in Rome, he noticed a commotion in the parquet,
and a woman was carried out in a fainting condition.
He sang on, and applause encouraged him. When ho
reached home he found that it was his mother who had
fainted. She was dead
In the Domain at Hobart Town, on Boxing
Day, a merry-go-round fell and killed a man. The
cricket pavilion was also blown down, killing a child
instantly. Two others are dying, and several are
injured.
Mr. W. H. Thompson has ingeniously managed
to best the Tei.ebanoer out of an advt. by stating in a
letter that: “It is currently reported that the town of
Heidelberg, lately seized by the Boers, is in the
province of Snellerdan (Cape Colony).” Mr. Thompson
further adds, “ r his is not so," and signs himself “W.
H. Thompson, Zulu War Diorama.” William has evi-
dently been in what Fulton used to call “ Murker.”
Said an enthusiast to Edmund Marshall,
brother of the inimitable Fred: “Your brother is so
funny, and has made such a name out here as a low
comedian, that even when people meet him in the
street and say, ‘ How are you ?’ and he replies, * Quite
well, thank you ’ —they are in convulsions.” “ That is
strange, too,” said Edmund; “ I often meet my brother
and ask him how he is. but I don’t burst my sides
when he answers, ‘ Quito well, thank you.’ " Perhaps
it is because the joke is not original."
Messrs. Phil, and W. Agnew, of the Southern
Queensland Dramatic Club, Beenleigh, have made a
decided hit by painting a very beautiful drop-scene for
the club. It is a moonlight scene (quite a now idea for
a drop) in an oval border, and represents a charming
bay and castle on the coast of Cilicia, round which are
advertisements of the leading tradesmen of the town.
The drop is spoken very highly of by the Press. The
Agnew brothers are Sydney boys, and in Sydney picked
up their drawing.
When Sara Bernhardt arrived in New York, the
importunate Customs officials opened her boxes most
unceremoniously. A half-hundred or so of dresses,
hig-hoeled boots without number, and stockings in
almost endless variety, were paraded before the eyes of
the Customs officials : and pearl powder and rouge, and
soap and tooth-brushes, and many little contrivances,
the use of which is known only to the female sex, were
thrown about like so much old paper. Sara gazed
upon these sacrilegious freebooters like a weeping-
willow.
Mr. Charles Huenorbein gave, on Christmas
Eve, a very successful free instrumental concert at his
warehouse. The various imrceaux were most effec-
tively rendered, and not the least entertaining part of
the affair was that nearly all the audience were either
struggling with a goose or wrestling with a turkey.
The recital, however, as the Lyre would say, “ took
well,” and Mr. Huenerbein is to be congratulated on
the manner in which he afforded unliquidated enter-
tainment to a large, music-loving, and poultry-laden
audience, not the least distinguished of whom was a
very fashionable solicitor with a big edible burden.
The “ remonstratory ” deputations to the
Herald, by the joint committees of the Musical Union
and Choral Association, although out of the usual
order of things, should be productive of some good.
There is no doubt that the critique on the per-
formance of the “ Messiah ” was unnecessarily severe,
even taking into account Tabitha’s well-known failing.
She should remember that one word of praise is of
more value in the cause of music that fifty of condem-
nation.
A good long time ago there was a pretty actress
staying in Australia, and performing in the “Woman
in Eed ” and other quiet pieces. She was a great reader
of poetry, and she used to say that the couplet she
most admired in English poetic literature was the one
in Pope’s “ Eloisa to Abelard,” which runs
" Speed the sweet intercourse from soul to soul,
And waft a sigh from Ada to the Pole.”
It eventually ended in the Pole freezing on to her,
subsequently thawing, and at last drifting away with
her jewellery.
While a man was delivering the beef for the
lions and other members of the carnivora? of Cole’s
Circus when in Wellington, N.Z., an accident was pre-
vented only by the ready activity of two of the circus
riders. The lions smelt the horse and commenced
roaring, whereupon the horse, a very powerful one,
sixteen hands high, immediately began to tremble all
over and then to plunge violently. The two men,
aided by the driver, immediately sprang to the horse’s
head just in time to stop the animal, now mad-
dened with fear, and for a few minutes no one
could tell whether the men could hold the animal or
not, but at last they got the horse away.
Mr. Harry Lynch, manager of the Australian
Bellringers, writes ns from Clyde, N Z., saying that the
company, instead of having done bod business at some
places, have, for the space of ten months, drawn as
large if not larger audiences than any company has
ever attracted for a similar period in this part of the
world.” Mr. Lynchlis kind enough in the coarse of his
letter to allude to our “ uncharitable and untruthful
assertions,” “palpable malice," “calumny,” &o. He
has been dealing with the press so long that he ought
by this time to know how to write a civil letter. We
bear him no ill will, and believe that the corresponded
who supplied us with the information, though he may
possibly have been misled, was not actuated by malice.
The Parisians have been wondering where Sara
Bernhardt’s dog, a precious little car, in which its mis-
tress is supposed to take a great deal of interest, has
got to. It is now said that Mdlle. was busily painting
one day, and in her study were only herself, her
model and her dog. The little animal commenced to
whine. Sara raved at him vehemently, but to no effect,
whereupon she heat him severely, b ut still he kept up
his annoying whine. The passionate actress was then
so enraged that she dropped her brash, seized the un-
fortunate pup by the neck, and thrust him into the
red-hot fire in her large stove and closed the door, and
quietly resumed her work, as composedly as though,
she had burned a stick of wood instead of a living
creature.
In referring to the performance of Miss Marian
Melrose as “Little Nell” in “Quilp," the Herald
critic is elegantly eloquent. He says : —“After Quilp,
the most prominent character in the drama is that of
Little Nell; and Miss Marion Melrose plays this with
the tender delicacy of finish, and correct appreciation
of its many-sided beauty, which are necessary to bring
before on audience the earthly angel whom Dickens
drew for us. With her flowing golden hair, childishly
innocent face, and simple dress, she looked the part
thoroughly; and the apparently unstudied pathos of
her acting invested it with a dignified grace, which
made the audience sympathise thoroughly with all the
joys and sorrows of the little maid, and witness with a
sharp pang of regret the close of her self-sacrificing
life." What's the price of this “ candy P”
Among the funny things reported of Sara
Bernhardt is one to the effect that Sarony paid for the
privilege of taking her picture, and that after seven
hours’ labor he had to give it up, because even an
electric light failed to effect any shadow, whereupon he
got someone to compose an ode: —
Oh marvellous histrion of sinuosity.
We hail thee!
Thou concatenation of unadiposity,
From Pnree. .
How are all thy fellow artists of the Theatre
Prancaise ?
Didst thou kiss Coizette good-bye, original “ creator,”
Sarah, eh ?
And didst thou display unto her thy newest costume,
A la mode ?
Or mention, by way of chi t-chat, thy I’Abbey boom,
Ma Crapaude ?
Oh, thou elongated specimen of la belle Prance,
Genius’ child,
Wilt thou not make American uppertendom dance ?
We had smiled!
Thou wilt give to it the correct pronunciation
Parle z vous.
Mademoiselle et Madame, in consideration —
Of sixty dollars per season ticket for cash.
And no “ tick,”
Tragique muse !
Even if the whole country should go to ’tarnal smash
At one lick !
A Fourth-Class Wedding.
What we are going to relate is fact, “ impugn it whoso
list.” He was young, of a decent family, but, in con-
sequence of certain vagaries in connection with the
family plate on several occasions, an outcast. She was
a remarkably pretty girl, who had been a dairy-maid at
the Exhibition. He was not worth the german-silver
top of an old scent-bottle; she had, as dowry, one
morning wrapper, rather faded, and a gray alpaca which
had been dyed and three times turned, and which then
looked a different shade with every fresh action of the
atmospheric currents. However, they loved one
another, and determined to be married—as the bride-
groom frankly explained to his two bosom friends (a
billiard-marker and a jockey)—“ on the bluff.” . . .
The time is seven, and a certain well-known church in
King-street is dimly illumined. A few careless loiterers
stand expectorating about the steps, and half-a-dozen
fast-looking young men are comfortably ensconoed in
divers places, ripe for the coming “ lark.” In a few
moments the bridal party entered. It was a sweet pro-
cession. First came the bride and bridegroom. The
lady was chastely attired in the alpaca robe we have
briefly alluded to. Her dress was supplemented by a
little cracked black fichu (borrowed from the
landlady), and a hat which the bridegroom had that
afternoon purchased at Hordern’s for “ one-and-nine."
The festive groom sported a cloudy white vest, and
also mounted an alumimnium watch-guard of such
gigantic proportions that it bore “stage prop”
indelibly engraved on every link. The best man’s step
was rather unsteady—doubtless owing to excitement,
and the solitary bridesmaid’s red shawl made the
church, after the I .first five minutes, smell like a distil,
lery. Well, the parties concerned went through the cere-
mony very much as the principals of the harlequinade
would do it in a pantomime, then all adjourned to
the vestry to sign. All signed—then came the denoue-
ment. The groom walked over to the good old minister
drew him into a corner, and, putting his hand in his
waistcoat pocket (which contained the pawn ticket of
his ulster and a piece of billiard chalk), said, “ I had a
fiver for you ready rolled up in tissue paper, but in the
excitement of this joyous occasion, I must have left it
on my toilet table. No matter—could you oblige me
with a blank cheque of the Bank of Australasia,
Penrith Branch P—if so ” But of course the
clergyman could not. So he arranged to “call
round in the morning.” As the happy pair were pass-
ing out they were accosted by the verger, who nndged
the bridegroom significantly. “ All right, old fellow,"
said the benedict, “ I’ve included your lot in the tenner
I’ve given old John the Baptist, in there.” Adieu-
whoop—skip the gutter—and they were gone (in a
Woolloomooloo ’bus) like a beautiful dream. A few
moments later an elderly clergyman, attended by a tall
man in black, was seen to hastily leave the church, and
to hurry in the direction of the District Court. When
there they stopped, and, each one weighing his walking
stick in his hand, ejaculated—“ If we could only catch
hold of him!” Both the minister and the verger now
require—like the people who let furnished appartments
—a deposit or a reference.,
The printers have been playing havoc with the
London Daily Telegraph of late. In a recent issue
appears, among the Court news, this remarkable state-
ment :—“ Her Royal Highness Princess Louise arrived
this evening in the Duke of Argyll’s steam yacht
Colombia. Her Royal Highness, who was received on
landing by Lady Evelyn Campbell, drove immediately
suffering from typhus fever, and told her mother it
was an attack of gout.” Fnrther down, one reads that
“the Duke of Argyll has been confined to the Castle
lately by a somewhat sharp man,” and that his bedding
has not been disinfected.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
Only two pantomimes this year.
Ortori has been very ill. He is suffering from a
violent cold.
Why do the Sydney lady visitors at the Exhi-
bition talk so loudly ?
Great rush of Sydney ladies to Melbourne. The
dancing and flirting trade is looking brisk.
John Bryan has offered to run O’Shanassy a
mile spin on the M.C.C. ground for £lOO aside.
There are only four adults in the Bijou panto-
mime. The remainder, who number 101, are prodigies.
The Evening Herald has started a personal
column. It copies all your “ Follies” sans acknowledge-
ment.
A team of foreigners (exhibitors and commis-
sioners at the International) will visit Mount Macedou
at Christmas.
Lager-beer, and a taste for continental art
(which includes French bronzes), animates colonial
youth during the present silly season.
The Lantern, of Adelaide, is to be converted
into a Bulletin. The proprietor is looking for talent
in Melbourne. More imitation of your paper.
The Queen’s head on the new twopenny postage
stamp is a vile caricature. It is said to bear a striking
resemblance to Graham Berry’s great-grandmother’s
straw-bonnet-maker.
The man on the Exhibition lake who plies the
Venetian gondola and canoe, has learnt three words
since his sojourn in this city, namely, “ “ weip in,”
“ thrippence,” and “goot.
Two poor old maids, whose brother had filed his
schedule, saw with dismay his name in The Ahgcs.
Said one to the other, “ Let’s lock it up for fear any
one else sees it besides ourselves.”
Allan (of Wilkie’s) has made a dead set against
the musicians and entrepreneurs who block up his cor-
ridor. Giammona must curl his moustachios at home.
De Vivo must.misogynise elsewhere.
There is disaffection in the camp of Strauss. A
portion of the band, under a new leader, wishes to take
to the street. Baron Willdner. the conductor, cannot
see it; he says this conduct Willdner do.
Melbourne is enjoying a Tasmauian summer,
the sun cheerfully warm, and the breezes deliciously
cool. If Berryism were rooted out of the colony, Vic-
toria would be the happiest spot in the world.
The white elephant does’nt pay yet. Kowalski
on Thursday afternoons with his divine "Marche
Hongroise” is the only draw. (Since the advent of
this "muscular pianist we have done our level best to
build up a pun on his sublime name, and we now give
notice that "Kowalski” is non punnable).
Kowalski has become thoroughly Melbournized.
He wears a short silk coat and small hat, lunches at,
the Exhibition bar, and lager-beerizes in the Austrian
pavilion. The jovial pianist affirms that he loves Mel-
bourne.
The City Council have gone in for high art and
have made a mull of it. Perched up over the mayoral
chair is an inanely-conceived bust of J. T. Smith, the
Dick Whittington of Melbourne. It is a wretched pro-
duction. ’Twould make a capital Aunt Sally.
“The transformation-scene in the Royal panto-
mime is to out-Hennings Hennings. It will represent
the progress of Melbourne, and a historical delinea-
tion of the International Exhibition. No more “abodes
of bliss ” and fairy dells.” This is the age of in-
tellect.
“A well-known individual of “Dead Horse”
fame, like all geniuses of any grade or form, has his
little eccentricities. He paraded the streets last week
with a broken clothes-prop, on which was tied an old
hat of the spe'oies know as "boll-topper.” The other
end of the prop was red with gore.
Some ladies and a girl of 13 years were coming
by train from Deniliquin. The ladies got a half-ticket,
for the child, though she was as tall as any of them.
The guard took the tickets, and, looking comically at,
the passengers said, “ May I ask which of you ladies
the half-ticket is intended for ?”
On a gentleman leaving a station in Riverina,
after paying a call during the squatter’s absence, he
handed to one of the ladies of the house, his card, bearing
his name and crest (an ape) upon which the young lady
coolly remarked, " I did not know it was customary to
have one’s photograph engraved on one’s visiting card.”
An actor’s life is a sad one. The other evening
(the hottest of the season) Mrs. G. B. W. Lewie, the
jovial and talented actress, fainted away, from sheer
exhaustion, on the stage of the Bijou. To be an actress,
a directress, and an instructor of infant prodigies at
one and the same time, and at this pantomimieal season
of the year, is too much for one person. Mrs Lewis
enacted the part of Lady Teazle the evening after the
incident. Bravo, brave Rosa 1
Mrs. and her son were invited to tea where«
there usually was a scanty table. The mother told the
son he had better lay a foundation of bread and jam
before he went. This order he obeyed to the letter,
and when at tea he was begged to partake more heartily
of what was provided, he heaved a sigh and said, “ I’m
full, thank you.” Surprise was expressed, and the
hostess remarked “Why, Joey, you must have had
your tea before you came ?” " Yes, so I had.” Well,
how was that?” “Because mother said there was
always pinching work at this house.” A fact.
Amateur theatricals, as a rule, are weary
things, and are voted generally, by “ dancing ladies,”
to be "awfully dull affairs.” A recent performance at
Albert Park must, however, make an exception to the
ordinary rule. The play selected (“ Alone,” recently
perfomed by Rignold in Melbourne) was rendered in an
extremely perfect style. The young lady who enacted
the character bf Mrs. Thornton executed her part with
a vein, vigour, and verve worthy of a Mrs. Lewis,
whilst Strawless, the unhappy sponger, was played by
a young gentleman whose histrionic ability is already a
“ thing of fame.”
Thus is history distorted. A Child of the Sun
the other day, writing in this column, mentioned the
fact that the Countess of Ellesmere, daughter of H.E.
the Marquis of Normauby, “seemed” (judging from
external circumstances) as if she were fond of jam tarts.”
By a typographical (or other) error it was made to read
that " the Countess of Ellesmere was fond of jam
tarts.” This fact has been copied info nearly the up-
country papers of New South Wales, Queensland, and
Victoria, but the latest phase of the case has appeared
in a Melbourne daily paper,’which states solemnly that
“ the Countess of Ellesmere is noted for her strong
predilection for jam tarts.”
The other day Herbert J. Rollingstone married
Emma J. Moss. Thus does one familiar proverb
receive its deathblow.
A certain English General, being at the point of
death, opened his eyes, and seeing a consultation of
four physicians, who were standing close by his bed-
side, faintly exclaimed, “Gentlemen, if yon tire by
platoons it’s all over with me,” and instantly expired.
It is a peculiar fact that the most perfect and
artistic residence in London, which contains the riches
of many empires, has been built by an American,
Mr. M'Henry, the railway magnate. We all find the
heat of flaring gas-jets, after a generous dinner and the
glow of good wine, the greatest drawback to post-
prandial enjoyment.; but here ma.v be seen an arrange-
ment only used at Buckingham Palace, namely, gas-jets
glimmering softlv through daintily-wrought columns of
crystal set in different recesses in the walls, so that all
the heat is effectually excluded from the dining-room.
Another unique feature of this splendid home is that
on entering the parlor one finds oneself apparently in
the loveliest garden of flowers, for, separated from the
sumptuous drawing-room by a partition of highly-
polished glass, so skilfully placed that at, first sight it
is unperceived, is a hot-house of exquisite flowers and
plants, the coup d’ceil being enchanting from its novelty
and artistic design. The house stands in a
park, with a miniature lake, and all in the henjfbf the
j West End, where ground is worth ten Jgaineas the
| square inch. %
INTAGLIOS.
The Tale of the Flower.
BY CHAS. ISLINGTON.
They stood at the garden gate:
By the lifting of a lid,
She might have read her fate
In the little thing he did.
He plucked a beautiful flower.
Tore it away from its place
On the side of the blooming bower,
And held it against his face.
Drank in its beauty and bloom,
In the midst of his idle talk;
Then cast it down to the gloom
And dust of the garden walk.
Ay, trod it under his foot.
As it lay in his pathway there ;
Then spurned it away with his boot,
Because it had ceased to be fair.
Ah, the maiden might have read
The doom of her young life then;
But she looked in his eyes instead.
And thought him the king of men.
She looked in his eyes, and blushed;
She hid in his strong arms’ fold;
And the tale of the flower, crushed
And spurned, was once more told.
The Song of Sixpence.
(AFTER TAYLOR.)
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There is a hidden meaning in those simple words.
That prattling childhood’s lips so sweetly frame —
The king, and queen, and maid, and singing birds.
Each find upon the earth another name.
The four-and-twenty blackbirds are the hours
That swiftly speed in life’s diurnal round;
The pie is earth’s bright underlying bowers.
And the blue overarching heav’ns profound.
The sun is king, and couuteth out his store,
Pouring forth sunshine, Danae’s golden shower;
The moon is queen, from her transparent shore
Spread out the honeyed beams o’er tree and flower.
The smiling maid who hangeth out the clothes
Is rosy cheeked Aurora, who hath risen
Before her lord —the sun —and doth dispose
His fiery clouds across the vault of heaven.
Then comes the blackbird as the hour when night
Nips off the evanesceut light of day
And hides the glowing brightness from our sight
’Till wakened morn resumes her wonted sway.
ALF. H.L.
Sydney, 27th Dec., 1880.
The Story of a Life.
A child in the nursery crying—a boy in a cricket-field
“ out.”
A youth for a fantasy sighing—a man with a fit of the
gout,
A heart dried up and narrowed—a task repeated in vain.
A field plouged deep and harrowed, but bare and barren
of grain.
Some sense of experience wasted, of counsel misunder-
stood — .
Of pleasure, bitter when tasted, and pain that did him
no good.
A future hope half-hearted—for dim is the future now
That the triple cord is parted, and death is damp on the
brow. ,
And the debt to pay by the debtor—a doctor, a lawyer,
a nurse.
A feeling he should have been better, a doubt if he could
have been worse.
While the ghostly finger traces its ghostly message of
doom, .
And a troop of ghostly faces passed on in a darkened
room ;
With ghostly shapes to beckon, and ghostly voices to
call.
And the grim recorder to reckon, and add the total of
all.
A sum of life expended—a pearl in a pig-trough cast.
A comedy played and ended—and what has it come to
at last ?
he dead man propped on a pillow—the journey taken
alone —
he tomb with an urn and a willow, and a lie carved
deep in the stone.
THE BARREL ORGAN.
The Song of the Holiday-Maker.
With sandwiches heavy as lead ;
With a baby—a regular screamer;
A woman sat with, an aching head,
On the deck of a Manly steamer.
O, it’s munch, munch, munch.
While the gingerbeer corks are flying ;
And it’s munch, munch, munch.
While Billy will keep on crying.
For they never put any mustard
Amongst the beef and the 'am,
And I wish that Christmas was jolly well busted!
For holiday time’s a sham.
For it’s O to be a nigger
With never no work to do;
{Now Billy, my poppet, if you don’t just stop it,
I’ll hammer you black and blue).
And up through the cabin ’light
Your daddy shoves his head.
As if to show me he isn’t tight.
Though I know he’ll come drunk to bed.
If he’d only bring me some beer —
Two ales, or a pint of stout —
’Twould’nt smack you so much my dear.
But the mean old duller won’t shout 1
With an empty sandwich bag.
And a voice that was far from mild,
A woman, whose spirits began to flag.
Was spanking a squalling child.
TOM SHOULD.
Protection for the Deluded Spirits after
Bury-ing
Thou spirits who are out of bond.
Hear what wo fain would say;
In passing o’er the border-land —
So me duties ye should pay.
Perhaps ye are not worth a rap.
Although ye’re wrapped in air;
Pouring in through every gap —
Even customs ye forswear.
Rap, tap, the table tilts and we —
Look under chair and seat.
In time to very plainly see
E’en “ mediums ” can cheat.
So trust no spiritualistic man,
Soaked with the “ spirit " pure;
In Gladesville he will get, and then
Respite will be his cure.
ANTI (UP) SPIRIT.


PEPPER AND SALT.
A very heavy-feeding telegraph official was
travelling up to slavery, with the usual bundle on his
arm, on Friday last, when he was met on the Post-
office steps by a lady friend, who at once exclaimed,
“Oh, the darling little dear! I must kiss it, Frank —
how old is it?" “ How old is who, what, which?” re-
plied the astonished civil servant. “ Why, the baby
you’re carrying so nice and carefully,” said the inquisi-
tive lady. “Baby be banged," replied the disgusted
one as he walked away, “ that’s my lunch 1”
The Government invalid conveyance wouldn’t
hurt if a pound or so of Haymarket butter were care-
fully rubbed into some parts of its frail anatomy. The
wheels, for instance, squeak, and curse the grease-pot
man at every turn. And we have received several let-
ters from dead passengers complaining of the jolting,
and general want of comfortable accommodation. A
party who was accidentally drownedlost month actually
says that rather than ride in that couceni again he’d
walk to the deadhouse, or perch on the roof of a New-
town waggonette.
“ To be, or not to be,” that’s the question as
applied to the holidays of the Civil servants. Whether
it is nobler in the Government mind to keep a Lands
office clerk in his dungeon cell spearing flies and reading
The Bulletin, or to allow him half-a-day to give the
girls a treat at Manly. Ay, there’s the rub. And now
we want to find the man to rub it. When Parliament
meets these sons of toil receive a holiday, when it
closes they receive another, and the only thing now
that can possibly satisfy their craving souls is a holiday
every day this Parliament remains in session. Speaking
of the above, the News observes, the last holiday privi-
lege was enjoyed by the telegraph officials, but not by
those in the post-office. But this assertion isn’t true.
The only holiday a “ lightning-dodger” ever receives is
the day on which he’s buried.
The above reminds me that a certain Victorian
bookmaker possesses a wife whose real goodness is
slightly spoiled by a hasty temper. As her lord observes,
he need never go short for sandwiches as long as he can
raise the price of a loaf of bread—he can lay his hand
on the tongue at any time. However, he came home
rather early the other night, and finding his wife at
prayers he walked softly in and listened. The prayer
ran thusly—“ I ask forgiveness, for fo-day I fear I have
been somewhat peevish and inclined to talk.” The ex-
cited metallician went off bis head at once, and shying
down his hat, roared out, “ Truth, truth, every
word of it; I’ll lay 50 to 1 all night about it 1” I havn’t
heard from the seat of war since, but there was a
crockery-van and a furniture cart seen down that street
the following day. So I suppose both sides won as
• usual.
It is said by people who ought to know, that
girls of not more than eight or ten years of age are kept
toiling in a certain factory for fourteen hours daily.
The factory is “ run” by an individual who says that
cloth-making doesn’t pay, and that he wants protec-
tion. Yet during the last general election he joined in
the cries, “ No Chinese,” and “ Give us eight hours!"
He also, it is stated, employs adults who work as long, or
longer, than the wretched children referred to. We have
a society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, and if
we can’t pass a special enactment at once comprehen-
sively dealing with the question now referred to, let us
at least have a special danse put into the statute under
which the Animals’ Protection Society obtains its
•powers, and extend to children the same practical sym-
pathy which is now given to the brutes. The matter
is one for our working men to take up. It is one which
should specially enlist the sympathy of the hon. the
Premier and Mr. G. H. Reid. More protection indeed !
"Let us not tax ourselves that our children may be
enslaved !” Protection, pauperism, prostitution.
We commend the attention of the lawyer who
•failed to defend his client at the last Quarter Sessions,
to the appended stanza, and shall be glad to receive
from him an answer (post paid) to the questiom em-
bodied in the verse:—
He took money on a brief,
Then he robbed his wretched client;
The client is now in gaol,
And the lawyer is defiant.
Now, which is the greater thief.
The lawyer or the client ?
IN MEMORIAM.
London, December 23.
“ The death is announced of George Eliot
(Mrs. Henry Lewes), the well-known authoress.”—
HERALD.
She is dead, but her memory bright for long age s
Shall shine where’er civilisation is known ;
She has left far more riches in one of her pages
Than many a monarch bequeaths from his throne!
. She is dead —in the flesh —but, ah! not in the spirit;
Her grave face will oft float ’fore our eyes as we read
Those bright books in which gleam every scholarly
merit —
Those grand studies which are Nature’s studies
indeed.
Some of our readers may remember that shortly
after the death of Pontius Pilate Sam M'Cracken
•started a cricket club in connection with the Govern-
ment Printing Office. This elnb has practised day and
night ever since; no expense has been spared to render
it competent in every branch of the service. The time
at length arrived for Sam to bring his heroes before the
.world, and having dared the Stanmore Club to the
tented field, Sam addressed his squadron thus: ‘‘Fellow
Soldats (which is French —bar the fellow), the day has
at length dawned which must look upon your eternal
glory or your eternal disgrace. The eyes of the world
are bent in eager gaze on your gallant, warlike forms.
The enemy carouseth in his tent, and laugheth your
might to scorn. Shall this be thus for ever? No; not
for ever. Fellow Soldats! there lies the foe —advance
to glory!” The band from the Haymarket merry-go-
round then struck up “ Babies on our block,” and the
fight began. One of the printers, whose name will for
-ever adorn the roll of fame, scored 11. and the other ten
“ stamp-pickers” put 8 to their credit, making a noble
dotal of 19, after which the Stanmore smashers waltzed
in, remained at the wickets for fifteen days, and at
length yielded to a numerously-signed requisition
asking them to withdraw, for a total of 365 runs. It is
only fair to the “pie” men, however, to state that it
was afterwards discovered their bats had been tampered
with. Large holes were in a cowardly manner cut in the
centres, and the piece taken out was afterwards replaced
by a hack action spring attachment, which allowed the
ball to plunge through and upset the batter’s timber-
yard. Mr. M'Cracken is, however, nothing daunted, and
intends at once challenging eleven players from the
Celestial stores of Messrs. Sun Kum On and Co.
A certain pawn-shop, kept by a son of the
chosen race, lately caught fire, and the “ crowners
quest,” which was subsequently held declared that the
fire was caused by one of Solyma’s sons having incau-
tiously thrown away a lighted match. This is the first
instance on record (since Iscariot throw the thirty
pieces of silver into the temple) of a Hebrew pawn-
broker throwing anything away, and the fact of punish-
ment falling so quickly on the wasteful offence proves
there is a great deal more in this world than is even
dreamt of in a pawnshopman’s philosophy. Waste
mot and the firemen will enjoy their holidays.
Canon Smith says Australia is a second Para-
■dise. That’s so ; and yet in many parts it is easier for
a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for an
.honest man to obtain employment.
The Corsican Brothers may now be daily seen
in front of the G.P.O. Both wear straw hats of the
circus pattern, tweed trousers, and yellow dust coats,
and both are so much alike that no one can ever hope
-to tell the other from which, except he boards and
lodges with the pair of them. The safest plan is to
watch their lunches. Henri carries his in a Daily
Telegraph, whilst Fabian wraps up his dose in a
Sydney Morning Herald. The doctor says Henri’s
food requires a deal of lye in it.
The proper way to enjoy a ride on the tram is
to hang carelessly about the track until the conductor
has taken the tickets, and hopped gracefully out of one
compartment into the next, after which the person who
dongs for a jaunt should skip neatly, but unosten-
tatiously, into the pew just vacated, and either com-
mence reading the Twaddlegeaph or assume the
sanctified look of a travelling tract-hawker who feels
conscious that if he turns his head an inch on either
side he will see a clothes-line full of ladies’ handker-
chiefs. The conductor knows that a man with a phiz.
like that would rather die at the stake than cheat;
except on business.
Of all the Christmas tales to hand, commend me
to the one in the Echo, by “ Siverleaf." It’s even
better than reading a cookery-book. There’s no fooling
about with Lady Vere de Vere reclining on the tapes-
tried couch, whilst Lord Augustus Adolphus Mont-
morency Fitz Reginald Charlemagne Plantagenet de
Boots holds her fan, and talks of “ the ineffable tender-
ness which concentrates in the inmost recesses of his
soul"—not a bit,—it’s all about ham and eggs, and
quail on roast, fried bream from the mountain brook,
and stewed parrots from the greenwood dell, Bologna
sausages, lager beer, devilled kidneys, iced champagne,
water-melons and tripe, cucumbers and vanilla creams,
roast pork, currie eels, and so on to the end of the
chapter. " Silverloaf’s" heroines are always hungry,
and his, her, or its heroes are always dry.
As near as I can guess, after stumping round
and patting every male inhabitant’s head, I reckon
there are just 381,461 lords of creation in New South
Wales, and I furthermore find that out of this heap
33,976 are J.P’s., the balance being composed of “gen-
tlemen who kindly allowed themselves to be nominated”
during the past elections, and who now use np all their
spare time iu fruitless endeavours to discover what in
in thunder they did it for.
Signora Link had just warbled a “ Messiah” aria
in a style that made even the Garden Palace rafters
want to reach down and caress her, when a D.T.
reporter stood up and observed be “wouldn’t give a
Parramatta dam for a singer like that, not nowhere.”
This is about the highest praise that can be ladled out
to any musician. The D.T. man said there was no
“metal” about the Signora’s “ vocality,” and besides
she didn’t jark her head enough for a “ Congtiueutal"
artiste. What he wanted was “Nancy Lee,” and a
“ Bishop Barker”—especially the latter.
The following characteristic announcement
appeared in Friday’s Penny Morning Hash : —“ It is
announced that the Marquis of Landsdowuo has de-
termined to reside with his family on his Irish estate
during the water.” Now we consider that even if a
man only pays a penny for a newspaper, he should
(considering the great strides that journalism has ot.
late years made) get at any rate a reliable and,
above all, a grammatical pennyworth of “news-grub-
bing ” for his money. In purchasing the journal we
allude to, he gets neither the one nor the other. And
yet a year ago the denizens of New South Wales were
told that The Daily Telathvmper would, at the very
outset of its career, “ reform it altogether.” The result,
however, has been, since the fiasco ot the poor Pacific
Weekly, perhaps the most distinguished journalistic
failure on record. Nor is the result of the Victorian
men’s adventure one to be surprised at. That two or
three Melbourne literary cripples, possessing but the
haziest notions of our political, and none whatever of
our local requirements, should succeed, even from a
pecuniary point of view, in dealing us out deux sows
d’instruction every morning was hardly for a moment t®
be anticipated ; and when we remember the ridiculous
bombast which heralded the appearance of the paper,
we cannot but join with the general public in having a
quiet laugh at our Southern friends in Barrack-street.
Sometimes a leader with a faint sparkle in it lightens
up a gloomy oasis of mangled telegrams, (curious
criticisms, and tautological uew.s pars. Bat these
little beacons gleam onl/ at long and weary intervals.
Bumptiousness and self-assertion are painfully apparent
in almost every editorial period. They pretend, these
little people, to believe amongst their little selves that
Ministers hang upon their words, whereas, as a matter
of fact, the paper does not possess more weight than a
handbill of Pastor Allen’s. We feel, however, that the
subject is well worthy the expenditure of a few light
and airy stanzas; we therefore offer np at the Barracic-
street shrine the following bagatelle, which we will
entitle—
We are sorry to have to make the remark,
but we are really afraid that Mr. Alfred Allen is not
very well. We have not formed this opinion from a
personal view of Alfred, but merely from a sketch
which be has contributed to the current week’s Town
and Country Journal —which, by the way, is perhaps
as good a number of that paper as has yet ever been
published. Mr. Allen has lately been with Messrs.
John Davies, Perdriau, and others on a trip to the
Hawkesbury, and it does not appear to have agreed with
him. Not content with going on the trip, Mr. Allen
has written about it; and we have no hesitation in
saying that his sketch is the queerest conglomeration
of “ prose and worse " that it has been, for a long
while, our luck to encounter. Had Mr. Allen confined
himself to one or the other, he might have struggled
along at least intelligibly ; as it is, however, we will
leave it to our readers to judge what manner ot a poet
our excellent Alfred is. The very start in the steamer
suggests to him an opportunity to twang the Lyre, and
in he wades. He says that “ the start was a good one,”
and then the unfortunate “one" is left without a
rhyme, and
“ All hands gave a cheer;
Not a cloud in the heavens dared (sic) to appear.”
A little later :
“ But when the Heads were sighted,
Onr captain quite affrighted—fell a victim —
For old Neptune came and kicked him.
And so he tumbled doable.
And bellowed in his trouble—
Bill-o, bill-o, bill-o, bill-o, billo-hee.”
Now, them is something Homeric in this—a little of
Byron, and a thundering lot of Gubbins. Further on
be sings a madrigal, in which he remarks that
“ The crab was stealthily creeping
Along on its moss-covered floor.”
Thoughts of the stealthy crab caused his “ soul to be
filled with heavenly glow," and then he becomes
naturally mournful, and sings about
“ A roofless church, where moreporks keep
A midnight watch, while coffins sleep (sic).”
Later on, he invokes the “comic (!!!) muse, and is
mournfully playful. He likewise attempts a double
rhyme, and fails dismally in consequence. The skilful
manner, however, in which he brings in his friends’
names reminds us of M’Carroll in his palmiest days.
Here is a whole verse :
“ ’Tis hard to bear the ills of life.
But harder still to hear the knife
Just cutting through the bed strings.
While Gillam, Perdrian, and Co.
All night are marching to and fro
With anti-snoring peg (sic) strings.”
In conclusion, he carols as follows :
“ To ramp (sic) and stamp and make a noise,
Jolly, jolly, jolly boys ! ,
To cricket (sic), row, and bathe.
And when our holiday is o’er.
Upon the wave or on the shore.
We’ll join in song and glee."
We think by this time our readers will bear us out in
our supposition that Mr. Alfred Allen is not very well.
We trust ho will soon get better.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
(FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.)
Deoember 24th.
On Saturday, the racecourse at Caulfield was
the centre of attraction to the fashionable world of
Melbourne. Caulfield lies to the east of Elsternwick,
its course is said to be one ot the prettiest in the colony,
and since the Oakleigh railway has been opened it is
most easy and pleasant of access. And on a beautiful,
calm, sunshiny, perfect day like Saturday, “ whereon
no man should work, but play,” the drive from town
was thorougly enjoyable. His Excellency the Governor
drove his daughter, the Countess of Ellesmere, out to
the course four in hand. The Countess was dressed in
bine silk trimmed with lace, and a blue toque to match.
Nearly all the dresses were made short walking length,
and had hoods to match the dress, or trimming. These
are of different shapes, but the large, loose, monkish-
shaped hoods look the most stylish, though the fiat,
bell-shaped ones are greatly worn. Apart from fashion-
book lore, the prevailing color this season is cream;
every one wears cream shades indiscriminately,
generally with some other color, to relieve the
monotonous, and in many cases trying tone. One
pretty costume on the course was composed of cream-
colored oatmeal cloth trimmed with cardinal sateen and
coarse gnipere lace, which covered and softened the
cardinal wherever it appeared A silver belt was worn,
and a cream lace tie wound round the nock twice and
fastened at the side with a long-shaped silver brooch.
A cream and cardinal toque and parasol completed the
costume. These long narrow brooches, or scarf-pins,
are very fashionable ; they are antique in design, and
are the latest “ novelty ” of the kind.
Leaders of fashion are adopting much quieter
styles of late. The costumes made at the best houses
are most simply trimmed. Everything, though, de-
pends on the artistic arrangement of the drapery.
A fruit and flower show was held in the Exhibi-
tion on Saturday. Tin- counter-attractions, doubtless,
interfered with the attendance, which, however, num-
bered over 9,000 persons.
The announcement that the first recital on the
grand organ would be given on Wednesday afternoon,
attracted an immense concourse of people. Everyone
had begun to fear that the Exhibition would be closed
before the organ was ready. The west nave was
thronged, and for once the chairs were legitimately
used by the people. After considerable delay, Mr. Vale
appeared on the platform, and gratified applause was
general. However, the scene soon changed when he
informed the 4,000 people below that no performance
could take place, as the “ machinery connected with the
high pressure had failed.” An uproar ensued, and
several people suggested storming the Commissioners’
room. However, the inevitable had to bt endured, and,
amidst a good deal of grumbling, the numerous
crowd dispersed to wander at will through the courts.
My companion led me through the Victoria Court,
where we admired Mrs. Rowan’s hand-painting [on
satin. Her screen is painted on black satin, and
mounted in ebony. Each panel is a suggestion of a
landscape, and serves as an initiation for the introduc-
tion of the most gloriously painted indigenous flowers,
birds find butterflies. The clever artist is a daughter
of Mrs. Ryan, ot Mount Macedon, and sister of the
hero of Plevna. Then we admired Miss Brush’s hand-
painted china, which is beautifully executed.
There were a number of fashionable toilettes,
mostly light summer materials. One dark lady was
dressed in Madras muslin, made with a gathered
bodice, belt and polonaise edged with lace falling over a
wine-colored sateen, deep kilted flounce hood of
wine color softened with lace, and a cream toque
trimmed with white bugles, which fell upon her dark
hair and gave her quite an oriental appearance.
Most young ladies make their own toques, form-
ing the crown and foundation of brown paper. The
material for covering should be loosely arranged. Toques
are generally made of the same material as the dress,
though lately cream lace has been much used.
Another lady wore a short black silk, buttoned
up the back, profusely trimmed black jet fringe and
passementerie, black kid gloves and a cream lace toque,
with a large red bird in the centre, completed a very
elegant costume. Colored gloves are now wore to
match the costume, and there is a relief in the sombre
black so long in vogue.
On Saturday the Church of England|Grammar
School held its school exhibition, which consisted of
articles illustrative of the occupations of the leisure
hours of the boys. The collection was a most miscel-
laneous one, according with the tastes and inclinations
of the scholars, (and included paintings, models of
ships, specimens of carpentering and engineering
skill, and all sorts of boys’ handiwork, shows of
pets, collection of butterflies, birds, eggs, <fce. This
is one of Mr. Morris, the head master’s many
useful innovations, and is a matter of special com-
ment. The workshop he started some years ago in
connection with the school has continued to make
steady progress.
The Argus had an excellent leader on the sub-
ject of the School Exhibition, strongly urging that
boys’ inclinations in this respect be led into the most
useful and practical channels.
On Thursday they held their annual speech day,
and the prizes were distributed. A great number of
guests interested in the boys and the school were
present. The Bishop of Melbourne addressed the boys,
spoke in high terms of their endeavour to employ
their leisure time profitably, and urged the headmaster
to have a smith’s shop in connection with the system.
He concluded his address with an exhortation to the
boys to go in for a classical education.
The Rev. J. J. Westwood, the oldest bush mis-
sionary, well known in your colony, arrived lately from
Sydney. He is at present lecturing in Melbourne, but
intends shortly to resume his bush missions. He is a
nice old gentleman, venerable-looking as was Moses,
and is regarded throughout Australia, more especially
in Queensland, as a perfect saint.
The proprietors of the Age gave their employes
a picnic, on Saturday, to Mordialloc. The steamer
Williams was chartered to convey the party to and fro,
and Chapman’s band engaged. A number of other
guests were also invited, who drove down by the road.
A splendid luncheon was served in tents erected for
the purpose ; and the staff took the opportunity of pre-
senting a handsomely illuminated address and flatter-
ing testimonial to Mr. D. Syme, who is shortly going
to Europe.
Madame de la SicotDre held a dressmaking
class in the Athenaeum on Monday afternoon. Her
style and manner are very pleasing, and her system is
acknowledged to be practicable and easily acquired.
She cuts out and tits the ladies’ own materials during
the lessons, and seeing this actually done in her quick
comprehensive style is an excellent lesson to the
scholar. Her terms, which are not considered high,
are varied according to the amount of instruction
expected and given. Her next class will be held in the
same place the first week in January,
We were delighted to see by telegram that Mr.
Armes Beaumont had such a splendid bouse on his
benefit night. If it is really true that he seriously
contemplates leaving the stage, and retiring from
public life, I don’t know what the ladies will do. It is
rumoured that one young lady, well known in musical
circles here, is disconsolate, and shortly intends taking
the veil.
The late Mr. W. S. Lyster’s will was proved on
Thursday, and the value of the deceased’s estate was
sworn under £3304. Everything is left to Georgia
Hodgson (Mrs. Lyster).
Miss Pomeroy’s engagement terminated on
Tuesday, and it is a source of regret that so excellent
an artiste—who has charmed as Rosalind, Imogene, and
Cymbelline—should have been cast for her farewell
performance in such a character as Camille. It is a
matter of wonderment to many how any moderately
healthy moral nature can find pleasure in witnessing
such plays which, however, invariably draw good
houses, and, while being devoid of any real good, pander
to morbid and depraved taste. This recalls an anecdote
a friend related of a lady who, at one of these emotional
dramas, was dissolved in tears, refusing to leave and
declaring, amidst hysterical sobs, “ that it was so
nice!”
On Tuesday night, during the screen scene from
the “School for Scandal,” Mrs. Lewis fainted on the
stage, and caused quite a sensation. The audience had
to leave, and great sympathy was felt for this estimable
lady, who is a great favourite in Melbourne Every-
one was glad to hear that she had recovered sufficiently
to appear the following evening. She has been working
very hard, training 140 children for the Christmas Pan-
tomime, which commences to-night.
The report of the Commissioner of Audit is a
remarkable document. Certainly the proceedings of
the Berry Ministry, tried on the acknowledged lever of
the world, £ s. d., display a reckless—nay, an audaci-
ous-disregard of all the safeguards of a wisely-
considered Act of Parliament, enacted to secure the
legal expenditure of the public funds, and to some
extent explain the desire expressed by our present
Minister for Railways to devise some mode of getting
into the public treasury in an “easy and accessible
manner.” “ Faith, sir," an Irishman said in my hear-
ing, “sure they found a way for themselves, and quite
aisy, too." *
The Now Zealand yacht Taniwha arrived in the
Bay yesterday. She was built iu New Zealand, and has
come over to compete iu the approaching Intercolonial
yacht-race.
A case of “ very much married” was heard in
the District Court, the other day, when Margaret Green-
ough proceeded against a man, W. Qreenough, for
arrears on a previous order for maintenance. In the
course of inquiry it was disclosed that she had pre-
viously been married in England to a man named
Keeling, whom she afterwards discovered had been
married before to a woman who was neither dead nor
divorced. However, this was a matter of small
moment, for they came out together to Queensland.
But, by and bye, Margaret came on to Melbourne by
herself alone, met Gre nouvb, who, it was alleged, was
thoroughly acquainted with the facts about Keel-
ing, and married her. About 14 weeks after this,
she discovered that her second (prize had also been
married before. Some women have extraordinary
luck.
The nows of the fashionable wedding that took
place lately in St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, has
been a topic of conversation here during the week. I
wonder if this was the wedding at which there were to
have been twenty bridesmaids ?
There is a lull at present iu the excitement in
fashionable circles, and there are very few entertain-
ments to be recorded A musical party given by Dr.
and Mrs. Barker on Wednesday, at, which a number of
professional singers were present, proved one ot the
most enjoyable of them.
Mr. Von Guerard, the well-known artist, has
been very seriously ill, but his friends will be glad to
learn that he is now recovering.
I have heard of several juvenile fancy dress
entertainments, at wh : ch Christ mis trees are to be an
attraction. Most ladies dress their cbildreu for these
parties iu costumes composed entirely of cotton
material. It they are well and characteristically made,
they serve the purpose, and save expense.
The organ recital on Thursday afternoon in the
Town Hall was well attended.
Dust-coats are all the rage, those made of
grey bertre, Dolmar-shape bein ' the most fashionable.
Chinese silk is much used, hut is not so new.
The Hon. Mrs. Bright distributed the sum
collected in sixpences on board the Sorata among the
different charities of Melbourne.
“ I assure you, gentlemen,” said the convict
upon entering the prison, “tint the place has
sought me. and not I the place. My own affairs really
demand all my time and attention, and I may truly
say that my selection to fill this position was an entire
surprise. Hod 1 consulted my owu interests, I should
have peremptorily declined to serve, but as I am in the
hands of my friends, I see no other course but tq
submit." And he submitted.
THE PAPER THAT ALWAYS IS WRONG.
Whene’er an article is writ.
Upon the most “ alarming crisis,”
They always do pretend that it
Is from “ reliable advices.”
They “dilate ” on the policy
Of “gentle Graham” of Geelong;
But it turns out invariahlce
Their suppositions are all wrong.
When Russia's policy they see,
And “ drop ” to wily Gortschakoff,
Their leader’s solemn prophesy
Is pretty sure not to come off.
The “ little girl ” they say is dead,
Down there at Bally.iungarong,
Turns out to be a boy instead; —
In fact they’re almost always wrong.
When there appears a Police Court par.
About—well, say a grave assault.
It often happens that they are
As far as they can be, at fault.
We do not say it’s caused by gin—
To what, though, can these slips belong ?
They run the prosecutor in,
And put the case’s date all wrong.
When they “ report ” an opera
With what they think the critic’s “ ring,”
It turns out that the fair diva
They thickly buttered, didn't sing.
The praise that they bestowed upou
A certain doubly-encored song,
Was, since that song was never sung,
Host diabolically wrong.
Affairs commercial oft they quote
(We’ve quietly been behind the scenes),
And jumble up the prices, note,
Of pollard, sheepskins, and sardines.
When Bismarck’s “ little game ” they see
To bust up all the “ Continong,”
Expose it editorialee,
They’re more than certain to he wrong.
Their daily Melbourne-flavour’d stuff.
With its diluted metaphor,
Seems to be scarcely “ good enough ”
In any case it doesn’t draw.
A cabman, here and there, may read.
And pass the rag the rank along;
But nobody can ever heed
A paper that is always wrong.
THE VISION:
Being a metrical account of a strange appari-
tion which appeared lately to “ Liryc,” “ Bam” (dear
old Bam 1), and “ Philip Dale.”
Yes, they sat around a table,
“ Liryc, “ Bam," and “ Philip Dale,”
And Nox, with his mantle sable.
E’en shut out the glimmer pale
Of the lamp of kerosene,
That did shed its day serene
On the poet Shrill’s galoshes
That were outside in the “ washus.”
• * * •
Fingers touching and hair streaming—
A la maid of Saragossa—
“Bam" and Philip set to screaming
For their “ spirit-friend" Awassa.
Tap, tap, tap ! Oh, such a tapping
Creaking, too, and such a rapping
Worthy of the world’s oppressor.
Willow pattern cups and saucers
Polka’d on the kitchen dresser
In a manner to strike awe, sirs.
Presently the spirits came
That “ inspire” the “ jokes” so lame,
And the verse that like so much is
Prose of lunatics on crutches.
But one spirit was not there,
Tho’ they cried and tore their hair.
Round the table danced the three
In disappointed agonie.
Wept they tears—sighed they “ Heigho'
While they hopped around, this trio!
“ Come !” did moan that waltzing three —
“ Spirit of pure poesie 1"
* * • ♦
Soon with a vivid flash so plain
A streak of lightning broke a pane—
A shilling pane ot Sydney glass—
But still a pane of glass—alas!
It was a rather bulbous pane,
A nd had a kind of greenish stain—
But yet they moaned—“ What a sad pass.
Sad pass—alas!—that pane of glass.”
Then suddenly an airy form did stand amidst them
there,
In light and feath’ry raiment, of a face most wond’rons
fair.
With its hand upon the back of Philip’s eighteen-penny
chair.
And it spoke in tones so clear: —
“ Yon have summoned me—l’m here.
Look! the spirit yon will see
Of the purest minstrelsie.”
But to face the vision bright
Not one of the three were able.
And it was a funny sight
Those three crouching 'neath the table!
Then the spirit laughed with glee.
Oh, quite blythe and merrilee;
And then pluming its wings white
With a chuckle took to flight.
And perched on a distant gable,
Watched them come out from the table.
V.
January 1, 1881.


Public Comps
IOMMEECIAL BANKIN
' SYDNEY.
Established 18
Incorporated by Act of (
Capital, £550,000. Reserve
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Job
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., ]
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. B.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnsor
Messrs. Cape and Wes
Head Office—George-st
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; E. N. Burt
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G.
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, Geo
Oxford-street
London Office —39 Lombc
Directors; J. A. Toul, Esq., CJ
Esq.; P. H. Hogg
Manager: Nathaniel C
Branches in New South Wali
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Be
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Garcoa:
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, C<
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog. Porb
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gunda;
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molor
Murmruudi, Murwillumbah (Twe
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Naram
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qv
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singletei
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wa
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, We
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisl
Maryborough, and Bockham
Agencies in the Co
Victoria.- The Bank of Victoria
Australasia, Colonial Bank c
Commercial Bank of Australia
South Australia : The Bonk of
National Bank of Australasi:
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank <
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diene
New Zealand : National Bank of
Agencies beyond the (
London : The London and Westm
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland; The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank e
San Prancisco: The Bank of Bi
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Naoionale de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morg
India, China and Singapore : Tb
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lom
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercant
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of ]
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Cc
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bonk discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, a
fixed deposits, negotiates produce 1
issues drafts or letters of credit, ai
lects bills payable at any of the at
else"' 1 '<'re, at current rates; collect:
in paelic companies, and interest
for its customers in the investment
ties in Groat Britain or in the colon
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSUEAN(
VICTORIA (LIMIT
Established a.d, 1!
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, S;
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Bs(
This Society is established for Lil
granting of Annuities and Endowm
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the entir
Society at every distribution there<
LOANS granted on Mortgage or c
combined with Life Assurance.
CHRISTMAS SHIPMENT OF FA
Ex Orient steamships LUSITANA and
Peapes and Shaw are now raak
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the S
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
FOE
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
PAY A VISIT
OF
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
LADIES’
.SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BOXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NE PLUS LEATHER DESK
ASSORTED SCENT CASKE'
ROVAL CABINETS OF GAM
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CASi
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARR
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING C
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRA(
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET G
LADIES’ PANS FOR DRESS OR PRO
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS H(
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF ;
CRIBBAGjE BOARDS AND ROULE
LADIES’ Fitted TRAVELLING I
T»r»TTT»r>TT> TinTTO A IIWfllTUT
Public Comp:
1HE AUSTRALIAN JOIN
Incorporated by Act of C
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with ]
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £17
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., C
George A. Murray, Esq. I Jere
William B. Walford, Esq. I Will
Moses Moss, E
General Manag
Vincent Wanostroehi
Head Office, Syj
City and Suburban B
Haymarket ( Itedfern
London Office—18 Kino Wili
Branches throughout the Col
Wales and Queensland, and Age
Colonies, Great Britain, Americi
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL G
BUSINESS.
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED :
INCOEPOEATED BY ACT OF :
Paid-up Capital.
Eeserve Fund...,
DIEECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.A
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.Q.
Hon. Wm, Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS :
Phillip Qidley King,
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Qe
LONDON BANKS
The National Provincial Bant
London Office, 30, Great £
Director—Edward Chap:
Agent—G. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favom
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England f
10RNWALL FIRE AND a
' ANCE COMPAN
CAPITAL, £100,0
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD Af
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEB
SIDNEY.
The national mi
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRA
Established 1869
The only Life Office in the Austra
has been conducted on PURELY
GIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pit
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Bit
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
8 |The whole of the profits made
belongs to the policyholders, and is d
every THREE YEARS. The bom
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and or
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, SYJ
[?]
GANDY’S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMP
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK,
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY - ,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
N
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FRON 2*d. PER GALLON.
6ft. BATHS, 35s., WITH PLUGS,
GEORGE BARR,
. -A'
I
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANUFACTORY-
631 GEORGE STREET.
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURER IN THE COLONY.
F LOUR SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal, Pig Feed.
AIZENA FLOUR.
WHITE and YELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to any
yet offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WEAENE.
1
T. B U R P I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
Australian wine.—Carmichael’s
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.


Business Announ
W.
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WAR
352 George-strei
PIANOFORTES. PIA
JUST RECEIVED. JUS 1
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPI
A splendid stock to sel
EVERT RENOWNED
AMERICAN OR(
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and si
OVER ALL OTH
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIOI
HARMONIUI
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENO
in all the various n
A PEW GOOD SECOND-H
at low prices, now ir
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard'
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hu
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters
and Warren’s, and Smith and (
352 GEORGE S’
Opposite Wynyard-i
Sydney.
G.
B. M O I
GUNMAKER AND C
602 Geoege Steebt, Sy
Awarded 2 special prizes for col
Cutlery. Importer of every
Firearms, Cutlery
Every description of Firearms re
stocked on the shortest notice,
made to order on the premises.
KAixe*™
Tobacconisl
JAMES
CELEBRATE]
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cnt Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Les
Best Imported Br
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and i
159 PITT ST:
Next Post Offi<
TIN TAG TOIM
None are genuine but the I
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKS
dixson & so:
155 YORK STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA ClGii
MILD, FRAGRANT, &
m
Manufactured 1?
T. S A Y W E
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACC
Clarence-street, Sj
rjl HO S. J. BOW
ENGINEERS, BRASSFI
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SA
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
Chemists and Dr
J> U B L I C S
THE following Li
WATSON’S EENOWNED ]
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to tl
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ant
Watson’s (Vegetable) Woi
Watson’s Gingerbread Wo:
Watson’s Compound Chloi
Watson’s Strengthening E
Watson’s Australian Verm
Watson’s Excelsior Tooth
Watson’s Concentrated Gc
Elixir (a most valuabl
can be obtained, wholesale and r
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEOEGE STB
POTHECARIE
14 OXPOED STB]
Near Hyde Bark C
(N.B. —The Tram-car stop
W. D. EAMES, Pi
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLED
GOVEENOE,
And one of the Founders of i
Societies of Victoria and Nev
IpoTHE CAR IE »
V It
W. D. E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded h
Chemists and Dn
T
AKE
NO MO
but try
EANDERSON
PODOPHYLIN LOZ
Do you SUFFER from HEAI
Then try '
PODOPHYL
Do you Complain of Indigestii
Take a few doses of
PODOPHYL
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, auc
EANDEESC
Do you constantly suffer from
If so re mem hi
PODOPHY]
will soon cure, if taken ns
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDK
Are any’of your children sick
can safely give them one
for the small members of
TAKE WEI
W Remember this, and alwayi
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Pr
EDWARD ROW and (
45 and 47 George-sl
B Y
ROYAL LETTE
The Greates
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON’f
AUSTRALIAN OINI
Guaranteed to 1
Free from all poisonous qualitii
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Plant
in the Bush of New Sou
This Ointment is not a mere ca
public, nor does it require any pul
as it has been so well proved for ti
that it is impossible that the pnbli
long deceived. In fact, people are j
lons regarding its efficacy (never !
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot beli«
But one trial will convince the m
High and low, rich and poor, havi
fits from its use, and scarcely an;
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the ci
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP TI
which, taken altogether, prove the i
to be the Eighth Wonder of the V
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, i
hands and lips, bunions, soft con
casualities attending the hnmau fr
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA:
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perf«
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External J
may be cured by using Josephson
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Coi
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns an
can have immediate relief by apj
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriat
tion when a remedy like Josej
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles w
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is
It stands unrivalled. The wonc
effected, which is proved by the testi)
of undoubted respectability, and \
communicated with, and the large i
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fri
and totally free from any and all i
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S A
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what if
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekc
and Is 6d each throughout the coloi
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD EOT
ENTRAL PH.
78 (Late 84) KING ST


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS .
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell nnder all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
or
H
CO
Ljll
CO
DC
LU
CO
in
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
CO
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples
OUR C
C
| We
Only tb
CO
Boys’ ai
OurStoi
1
For ev
£
New
Gents’
own
7/6, wi
Our im
chases e
underse
establish
We al
it would
copy, w]
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
JOHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PL
lowest possible price consistent wi
and material.
Sole Agents, EOYLE ai
‘OHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE Pli
Prices, from 44 gu
Sole Agents, EOYLE ai
JOHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE P U
a five years’ guarantee given wi
Sole Agents, EOYLE ar
B
RINSMEAD
NOTICE.
We have WITHDEAWN our AG
H. PALING, and appointed as SO'
TIYES for New South Wales M
HOGG, to whom all applications fc
be made.
JOHN BEINS
'OHN
BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PIJ>
SUB-AGENTS WANTED in all
of New South Wales. Apply to
EOYLE and HOC
Sole Agents,
Bond-street Stores, S
JOHN BRINSMEAD
SOSTENENTE PUS
Gained first and only prize abo'
Sydney, 1879-80
Sole Agents, EOYLE an
WATCHES, PRESENTS, .
Our new goods for this festive seas
inspection; please call—read the
and secure best value for yc
334 GEOEGE STEEI
Professional Add
M
M
M
M
R. JOHN B
ADDEESS:
Box 502, General Post Offl
R. S. LA
ADDEESS :
Professional—Theatre I
Private—“ Oeta," Quee:
R. J. R. G R ]
ADDEESS :
Queen’s Theatre, for the
R. L. M. BA
ADDEESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-stre
M
M
M
R. ERE D. M i
ADDEESS;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlerea
R- ARMES B{
ADDEESS:
Oxford Hotel, King-stree
R. SAM H C
ADDEESS:
Opera House, York-s
o NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
Trade mark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
833
m ssg
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Sconring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WHAT IS THE RESULT of importing our
own goods and paying cash for them ?
DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our customers the best possible value ?
And WHERE ARE THOSE who will not take advan-
tage of the inducements offered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special month,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required.
FOR COLLECTION AND VARIETY, The Royal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for itself
a lasting reputation. PARTIES DESIROUS of securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
double—Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies’ and gentle-
men’s, with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enamelled, brass mounted, black and gold,
also flowered, with the new extending foot rail—Patent
Sanitary Spiral Spring or Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
tresses, recommended by all doctors—Toilet Sets,
single and double, in all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites—Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards—Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
materials—An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
and Girandoles, in very pretty frames—Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre, Card, and Occasional Tables—Papier-
mache; goods of every description—Ladies’ Musical
Companions—Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
Jewel Caskets—Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
about one hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
and Fish Globes—Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Services
in new patterns—A splendid assortment of Marble
Clocks and Bronzes to match—Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from—Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables—Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets —
Flower Pots and Specimen Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, Inkstands, Panel-
Weights, &c., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
THE SHOW-ROOMS LOOK MAGNIFICENT,
Separate tables being laid out with
SPECIALTIES FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON.
King street
IS THE
GEEAT CENTEE OP ATTEACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Drees Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &o.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STEEBT.
FUN AND FANCY.
“Proud flesh”—The aristocracy.
“ Keep to the write,” said the lawyer to his
lazy clerk.
A tragedy in two acts.—l. Boy, gun; joy, fun.
2. Gun bust; boy, dust.
A man, whose only son had been hanged, said
he had no family to speak of.
Will the coming man use both hands? No
both feet. He comes on a bicycle.
“ My burden is light,” remarked the little man
carrying a big torch in the procession.
“ This cheese is about right,” said John, and
Jane replied that it was, if mite makes right.
People who take moonlight strolls on railroad
tracks shouldn’t be offended if the coroner doesn't
recognise them.
A constable saw Shying’s cherry-case and ex-
claimed, “Is it possible that that coffin was intended
for any living creature ?”
Time is money, of course ; but it is found to be
a very small amount of money when one takes his
watch to the pawnbroker’s shop.
It was a saying of a great divine that he had
found more good in “bad" people, and more bad in
“good" people than he ever expected.
“ Come and be revived,” said a well-known
evangelist to a combination of the publican and sinner.
“ No, Sankey," was the unblushing reply.
A maiden’s heart, said an old traveller, is like
an hotel bed. You may never discover the previous
occupant, but you may be sure there has been one.
His name was Johnson ; he was a man of
business, and he was signing the baptismal register of
his tenth child. He wrote “ James Johnson and
company.”
What is life ? In infancy a battle with colic ; in
youth, a struggle to keep out of mischief; in manhood,
a struggle with indigestion, and in old age, the prelude
of a contested will case.
He said to the dentist: “ You pulls mitout
pain?” “Certainly." “What does dat cost?”
“ Half-a-gninea.” “Py shimminy, you dinks dat don’t
hurt some, py gracious!"
“ My boy,” said a conscientious teacher, “Do
you know the reason why I am going to whip you ?"
“ Yes," replied the hopeful, “ I suppose it’s because
you’re bigger than I am.”
Snooks was advised to get his life insured.
‘‘Won’t do it,” said he, “it would be just my luck to
live for ever if I should.” Mrs. Snooks merely said,
“ Well, I wouldn’t, my dear.”
“ I tell you,” says a rabid “ atheist,” “ the idea
that there is a God never comes into my head." “ Ah,
precisely like my dog. But there is this difference—he
doesn’t ge round howling about it.”
Says a religious exchange: “ The angelic inno-
cence of a higher life is reflected in a baby’s face.”
How true this is, unless the nurse has imprudently
trusted the angel with a treacle jug.
“ What do you say, Harry, when the lady gives
you cake ?” said a mother to her off-spring when she
wished to teach him a few manners. “ Why,” was the
reply, “ if it’s good, I say gimme some more.”
Toll the bell(e)s is a pleasant old custom in
Holland for young men when crossing a bridge with
young women, to exact toll from them in the shape of
a kiss. Why are the girls not tolled so here ?
The young clerk who desires to pass himself off
as a wealthy son of a retired manufacturer or lord of
the soil, should see that the height of the counter is
not too plainly marked on the binding of his vest.
After supper, at a ball: He—“ Without joking,
Elise, Ido really adore you. When I look at you there
is 'Such a commotion in my breast." She—“ And in
mine, too, Adolphus, it must bo the lobster salad.”
“ What’s the time of day, uncle?” inquired a
young smarty of an old darkey, wearing a very loud
watch chain, the other day. “ Look at de town clock,
chile. Dat’s built for po’ folks," was the ready reply.
First rustic : “ What is this they’re playing at
the Rile?" Second rustic (busily engaged in spelling
out the poster) : Lez Clotches dee Cornawhile—some
more o’ them I-taliau rubbish. Let’s go to the wax-
works."
“Kings I Have Met” is, we hoar, the title of
Mr. Archibald Forbes’s lecture. Some day, Mr. Forbes
will come here and see three kings and a pair of sevens.
Then he will learn something about the really great
resources of this country.
Here is a good motto for people who prefer cash
business;—
To trust is to bust.
To bust is hell—
No trust, no bust, no hell.
A western contemporary, who is an incorrigible
bachelor, says that he is opposed to uniting the
marrying with the printing interest, as during these
hard times he finds it as much as he can do to issue a
Single sheet, without being bothered with little extras.
A total abstainer of our acquaintance who visits
a temperance restaurant during the day time is inclined,
on the whole, to think it was the tomato salad that
caused him, on returning home, after dinner with ns, to
kiss his father tenderly, and shake his mother gravely,
by the hand.
Says the editor of the Invkbell Times :
Let dogs delight to bark and bite.
For ’tis their nature to,
But editors should never fight.
And call each other pu—
silanimous, brainless, idiotic conglomerations of ignor-
ance and jackassical conceit!
It was in Hyde Park. Two diggers down for
the Christmas holidays were strolling about with the
last amber drops of a “ long sleiver" glistening in their
manly beards when a man with a very red head of hair
passed them. One turned to the other, and said,
“ Wey, Bill; a wonder what color that chap’s hair’ll be
when it turns gray ?”
“That rule is poor,” is a saying,
“ That will not work both ways,”
The simplicity of its working
Commands the highest praise.
The application is human.
And rules in every house ;
For a mouse is afraid of a woman.
And a woman’s afraid of a mouse.
A bald-headed man is refined, and he always
shews his skull sure. It has never been decided what
causes bald heads, but most people think it is dnn’d
rough. A good novel for bald heads to read—" The
Lost Heir." What does a bald-headed man say to his
comb ?—-We meet to part no more. Motto for a bald
head—Bare and fur-bare. However high a position a
bald-headed man holds, he will never comb-down in the
world. The bald-headed man never dyes. Advice to
bald-headers—Go to America, and join the Indians, who
are the only successful hair-raisers. What does every
bald-headed man put on his head P—His hat. You
never saw a bald-headed man with a low forehead.
Shakespeare says “ there is a divinity that shapes our
ends.” Bald men are the coolest-headed men in the
world. Some bald men have heirs.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Garibaldi has declined Tennyson’s invitation to
visit him in England.
Mr. A. K. Smith, M.L.A., the well-known gas
engineer, still continues very ill.
Mr. David Syme, of the Melbourne Age, was a
passenger to London by the Bokhara.
Mr. B. Lazarus, of Sandhurst, mine-owner, died
on Friday last of chronic bronchitis, aged 67. He is
said to have left £lOO,OOO.
Lord Monteagle, a young nobleman of well-
known Liberal tendencies, has startled London society
by declaring himself in favour of the abolition of the
Upper House.
On the summit of Mount Piddington, in the
Blue Mountains, is a hole, sunk in the solid rock, and
said to have been made at the expense of an eccentric
member of the Upper House, who wishes to be buried
in the lofty and picturesque locality referred to.
The editor of the Sydney Daily Telegraph
is a free-trader. The chief shareholder, who takes part
in the management, is a protectionist. Which accounts
for the delightful jumble of opinions on fiscal and other
matters that one sees every day in the Telegraph.
At the inquest held on the late Mr. Warden
Bligh at Gympie, the medical evidence pointed to the
conclusion that death had been caused by an overdose
of chloral hydrate. It appeared that Mr. Bligh had
taken 31 ounces of syrup, containing 15grs. to the tea-
spoonful.
Dr. Tanner is making arrangements to fast
for forty days in London. He says the advocates of
alcohol may select six men as near his age and physical
condition as possible, who can take wine, beer, or any
spirituous liquor during the fast, and he will take
water only.
M. Dumas is described as a tall and vigorous
man, with blue eyes, a clear, pale complexion, and
silvered hair and moustache. He is a charming talker,
and has an agreeable air of straightforwardness and
fnnkness about him. The title of his new comedy is
‘The Princess of Bagdad.”
Young Evans, the absconder, who altered the
Lands Office cheques so handsomely, and who in his
office in the department was a marvel of clerical
dexterity, was the very best scholar of his day at the
Port-street public school. Will Archbishop Vaughan
let this item slip ? “ Seed-plots,” &c.
Mr. Norton, the Dubbo police magistrate, who
was shot by Mrs. Wilkie, some weeks ago, died sud-
denly at one o’clock p.m. last Sunday morning. At the
post mortem, the bullet was found imbedded two inches
in the brain. It had lodged just above the region of
entry, and as an abscess formed there, the ball even-
tually dropped from it, and produced death.
In Gympie lately, a certain lady lost her lord,
and one of the lawyers lost his lady. The graves were
adjacent. The relicts grieved over their respective
losses, each upon a grave. It was proposed by the
lawyer, and seconded by the lady, that they should co-
operate and howl together. The now grieve about in a
one-horse shay. The lady has some property.
A certain fashionable lady was (in Lady Robin-
son’s time) present at a dinner given at Govern-
ment House, and was escorted to the table by an
equally fashionable young man. Having been seated
some minutes she asked her escort what he would
He pondered and said something about ‘immaterial.’
The lady supposing it to be a French dish, replied, “ I
think I’ll take some of that too.”
It is currently reported throughout the Macleay
electorate that Mr. O. O. Daugar, of Kempsey, has been
appointed Police Magistrate for the Macleay. Envy
states that the appointment has been made owing to
the zealous manner in which Mr. Hangar supported the
honorable member for the electorate in his late trying
ordeals. Notwithstanding the insinuation, we trust
the report is correct, for undoubtedly the appointment
is one that would give satisfaction to all. The
district is to be congratulated upon having obtained
the services of such an efficient gentleman, and may he
be long spared to enjoy the position. The want
of a P.M. is much felt in the district, and the appoint-
ment is is hailed as a boon by the public, and also as a
further evidence of the zeal and kindness of the mem-
berifor the electorate.
Subjoined is a copy of the will of the late Sir
Redmond Barry:—“l, Redmond Barry, one of the
judges of the Supreme Court of Victoria, do make this.
my last will, and revoke all others. I’irst—l direct
that all my debts be paid. Second —I give and bequeath
all my property, real and personal, of what nature and
kind soever, and wherever situated, unto Mrs. "Louisa
Barrow, of St. John’s, Waverley, near Melbourne, in
Victoria, save as hereinafter mentioned, for her sole
and separate use, for life, to be by her distributed
amongst our children, Nicholas, Eliza, George, and
Frederick, in such proportions as she may think proper.
Third—l give to George Broadley, Esq., and to Henry
Broadley Esq., my nephews, £5OO each ; and I appoin"
the said Mrs. Louisa Barrow and our son Nicholas, to
be executrix and executor of this, my will. Witnesses
—Farquhar M. Cole, John Schntt. Testator died 23rd
November, 1880. Estate sworn under £lO,OOO. Probate
granted on application of Mr. Cock.
It may be remembered that some time back the
relief of the garrison at Ekowe, in Africa, was accom-
plished mainly through the success of the facilities they
possessed of signalling long distances by means of an in-
strument called the heliograph. When the news of
the relief was made known in England, and the fact that
it was accomplished through the power of the garrison
to transmit messages over a distance of some 35 or 40
miles, the Times newspaper printed an article congra-
tulating Mr. Mance, who had first been the means of
having these instruments used in the British army.
Mr. F. Brewer, of theS. M. Herald, happening to beii
London at the time, wrote a letter to the Times claim-
ing for Mr. T. S. Parrott of this city the honor of having
first discovered the means of transmitting messages by
reflecting the rays of the sun. This, ho pointed out, was
accomplished in Sydney by Mr. Parrott in 1875, and
duly reported in some of the scientific journals at that
time. After the publication of Mr. Brewer’s letter the
matter was warmly taken up by the Times and other
metropolitan and provincial journals in the interest of
our local inventor and each paper at that time urged
that the honor of so important and valuable a discovery
should be awarded to the gentlemen who had been suc-
cessful in first bringing it nnder the notice of the public.
We have seen the English papers ("including the Times)
in which the claims of our citizen were very warmly
advocated, and although we do not forget that the S.
M. Herald in 1875 brought the matter under notice, it
still seems strange that we should have to rely on the
advocacy of English and American journals to establish
in the public mind a sense of the importance of dis-
coveries made in our own city. This is the more re-
markable as the Government of this colony at the time
of the discovery did not hesitate to avail themselves of
the use of the instruments, which were found to be valu-
able in carrying out the trigonometrical survey, Wo
think it due to Mr. Parrott to bring these facts undex-
notice, and we regret that the N.S.W. Government have
not in any way acknowledged the obligation they owe to
that gentleman for so generously placing his invention at
their disposal.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Irish Presbyterian Church is progressing
greatly.
There is to be a week of united prayer in Syd-
ney, commencing January 3.
The Rev. Dr. Steel and son have returned from
England by the Suez mail-steamer.
The Pope openly disapproves of the agrarian
movement in Ireland, and desires to help the Govern-
ment if possible.
The first woman ever ordained to the Christian
ministry in Europe is Caroline A. Soule, a Universalist
preacher in Scotland.
.£36,419 was expended by the Government in
1879 in Denominational Schools for salaries &c; and
£263,000 in Public Schools.
Religious toleration now exists in Japan in such
a degree that native Christians are allowed to hold
open-air meetings in the parks and plazas.
The oiher day a certain prominent colonist left
our most fashionable church and cultured preacher
because he heard the latter quote Shakespeare in a
sermon!!!
There were 600 representatives at the Pan-
Presbyterian Council at Philadelphia. The delegates
were received by the Governor of Pennsylvania and
the Mayor of Philadelphia.
At the Presbyterian Council at Philadelphia,
the Hon C. D. Drake read a paper showing that
Christianity was the friend of the working man, and
that that Christianity was Presbyterianism.
The sacred concert, on the occasion of the
opening of the new organ of the Congregation
Church, Glebe Eoad, has been unavoidably postponed.
It will, in all probability, take place during the ensuing
week.
A bill has been submitted to the Mexican
Congress that Churches and curacies now under the
charge of foreign priests shall be restored to the do-
minion of the nation. This is a blow aimed at the
Jesuits.
Mr. Spurgeon speaks of a class of preachers
who preach so high over the heads of the common
wants of common people that one would imagine that
they supposed themselves called upon to feed giraffes,
rather than sheep.
The meeting in the Church Society’s rooms, to
decide as to prayers for rain, resulted not in any special
day being appointed, but in acircular being issued, pro-
posing to each clergyman his reading the prayer for rain
in the Book of Common Prayer at any time he himself
may think fit.
Last Saturday’s Express says that Pitt-street
Congregational Church ministers always “get ill”
after a few years’ work there, and insinuates that they
all retire on handsome fortunes. This is utterly untrue
as regards Mr. Jefferis. This is another clerical
paragraph.
There are 150 denominational schools in New
South Wales, in which 22,700 scholars are enrolled;
67 of these denominational schools are Church of
England, 83 Roman Chtholic, 3 Presbyderiau, 6 Wes-
leyan, and 1 Hebrew. At the latter school (in Sydney)
114 children are being well educated.
Principal Kinross, writing to a friend in Sydney
of what he saw at the Philadelphian Council, says that
Presbyterianism is a great power in Philadelphia, and
has much influence throughout the United States. He
says, however, with regard to the Council, that too
many papers were read, and no time allowed for discus-
sion.
On Christmas Day the Rev. John Vaughan, who
is leaving South Creek, was presented by his parishio-
ners with an address and purse of sovereigns, as a
slight memento of their affection and esteem. Mr.
Vaughan, who will be succeeded by the Rev. George
Brown, of West Balmain, has ministered at South
Creek for twelve years.
An individual who at first sight was taken to be
one of the new members of Parliament came to Sydney
last week to be married, He chose the most fashion-
able church, employed the grandest landau, top-boot,
and cockade turn-out, was accorded all the honours of
a full choral service, and having been duly “fixed,”
drove off without giving the parson anything more
substantial than thanks. It turned out that he was a
warder in a southern gaol, where the silent and gagging
system prevails, or used to prevail. The cream of the
joke is that, so satisfied are the family with the manner
in which the “ hobsequies ” were conducted, that the
parson has since received an order to marry the bride’s
sister on the 6th January.
The last vestiges of State aid to religion are
being rapidly effaced from the Blue Book of New South
Wales During the past two years the Church ef
England has lost the following sums through the
deaths of the clergymen whose names are affixed:—
Rev. Edward Rogers, £2OO per annnm; Rev. W. B.
Clarke, £2OO per annum ; Rev. H. A. Palmer, £2OO per
annum ; Rev. John Elder, £2OO per annum ; Rev. George
Vidal, £2OO per annum ; Eight Rev. Dr. Tyrrell, Bishop
of Newcastle, £5OO per annum ; Rev. G. C. Bode, £lOO
per annum; Rev, James Gunther, £2OO per annum;
Rev. J. F. E. Whinfield, £lOO per annum; Rev. F. E.
Kemp, £l5O per annum. Total, £2050 per annum, which
falls into the Consolidated Revenue. The Roman
Catholic Church has also suffered as followsßev. C.
M. Joly, £l5O per annum; Rev. J. P. Roche, £2OO per
annnm; Rev. P. Birch, £l5O per annum; Rev. M.
McAlroy, £2OO per annum ; Rev. T. McCarthy, £2OO per
annum. Total, £9OO per annum.
The Gaiety Theatre.
OPENING NIGHT.
Half-past seven, and a surging mass striving to
fight their way in through the elaborately-deco-
rated doors of the theatre. Placards in conspi-
cuous places, betraying the lovely penmanship of
the treasurer, intimated that the theatre was “cram
full,” but still the crowd fought and charged and
butted at the semi-closed portals. Standing in
the centre of the oscillating pleasure-seekers was
the redoubtable manager, Mr. L. M. Bayloss.
There, in the gloaming, with his immaculate dress
suit, snowy linen and irreproachable shirt front,
he stood calm and composed amidst the storm.
There was a policeman there, who continually
cried “ Stand back! ’* in stentorian tones, and was
several times within an ace of ‘‘running in”
parties who came with tickets for reserved stalls.
With commendable courtesy, the management had
kept seats for the members of the Press, and there-
fore, once past the telmeted janitor, things were
made tolerably easy for the perspiring critic.
Within, all was gilding, rose-colour, and sparkle.
Fans fluttered, jewels jingled, and diamonds glit-
tered. Elegantly gantc exquisites murmured from
behind their programmes dulcet nothings to
diaphanously-attired belles, and Mr. H. Solomon,
in a lavender bow and a profuse perspiration, was
untiring in his efforts to seat an audience which
would have been a tight fit for the Royal. The
gallery was a thing to be remembered when Mel-
ville’s speeches are forgotten. All the gentlemen
were in their shirt-sleeves ; all the ladies were hat-
less, and engaged in the discussion of oranges and
biscuits. Cries of “Up with the rag,” and “ cat-
gut” were frequent; a facetious person in the
pit caused a laugh on the entrance of Mr. Cox by
the audible ejaculation of “two to one on the
field.” Good-humour abounded. Gentlemen who
found their seats occupied by ladies holding other
vouchers, balanced themselves against the wall,
and smilingly contemplated the drop scene. The
entrance of the orchestra, under command of Mr.
Miller, was the signal for loud applause: and
when the whole strength of the company filed in
to sing the national anthem the enthusiasm
reached fever-pitch. On the commencement of
the song everybody stood up, and the vocal efforts
of the performers were received with much favor
by the audience, the denizens of the gallery join-
ing in the chorus with an individual independence
characteristic of the time-honored Briton who will
“ never never.” After the anthem came the pro-
logue, which was written by Mr. E. Lewis
Scott, and recited by Mr. James Eainford.
The address, however, which was apparently
written on the model of that distinguished
poet Bilkins. was received by the audience with
derisive boohoos. Mr. Scott’s Pegasus was so
very lame, and hobbled so, that the iambics
sounded as if the author had made a col-
lection of halfpenny valentines, clipped a line
here and there haphazard, and joined the whole
together with a penny gum-pot. We congratulate
Messrs. Bayless and Solomon on the fact that
this remarkable epic was to bo recited “for one
night only,” and we recommend them, if they
have the copy still in their possession, to destroy
it without delay, for should any evil minded per-
son get hold of the address and once more deliver it
in their theatre, not all the attractions of the entire
Thespian world gathered together within the walls
of the Gaiety would ever induce a maddened public
to re-visit the temple haunted by the agonizing
recollection of those fearful verses. The curtain
rose on “ Quilp,” amidst a partial silence. The
moment, however, Mr. Fred. Marshall made
his appearance, the theatre literally shook
with the thunders of applause that greeted his
advent. No member of the audience remained
passive. Legislative Dave clapped his hands until
the sparks of his genius flew out at his finger-tips,
and a certain popular bank manager and his
quintette of charming daughters welcomed the
popular actor with an ingenuous demonstrativeness
that must have been particularly gratifying to the
object of it. Mr. Marshall’s “make-up” was
simply perfect. He looked, moved, and spoke as
if the demoniac dwarf had stepped out living and
breathing from the delightful novel. From the
very commencement of the play it was apparent
that Mr. Marshall had entirely grasped the
author’s idea of the character, and that for the
time being he had thoroughly identified himself
with the representation, and was, in fact, Quilp
and nothing else—Quilp with all his deviltries, his
cunning, his humour, and his murderous instincts.
Undoubtedly Mr. Marshall achieved a triumph in
the fullest interpretation of the term, and it
speaks to the intelligence of the audience that
they comprehended in their various phases the
marvellous subtleties of this most extraordinary
impersonation. Next in order of merit comes
the Little Nell of Miss Marion Melrose. This
young lady, who has been liberally endowed by
Nature, made, as may be imagined, a very charm-
ing picture. She is not very little, it is true, but
by a judicious “make-up” she succeeded in
making as little, and, at the same time, as much,
of herself as possible. Evidences of careful and
intelligent study were apparent in her acting
throughout, and on no occasion did she mar the
poetry of the sad story by over-acting or undue
striving after effect. In the latter scenes, per-
haps, a little more attention on her part to the
unities would be not unadvisable. For instance,
she starts on her long pilgrimage in a very pretty
little brown frock, a duck of a Dolly Yarden hat,
and about the daintiest little basket to be bought
for money. Her shoes are single-sole balmorals of
the most gossamer bronze, and her stockings look
as though they had been woven by the gods. Yet,
in the last act, where she fades from the earth,
her frock, hat, basket, and shoes and stockings do
not betray any signs whatever of having suffered
from either summer dust or winter breezes —not-
withstanding that the “ rig ” is precisely the same
as that in which she set out. Mrs. F. Marshall
played Mrs. Quilp with great judgment, and was,
though a little nervous, successful in engaging
the sympathy of her audience. Mr. H. Emmett
was entrusted with the part of Dick Swiveller.
Were it in our power to be able to truly state that
Mr. Emmet had grasped the character of the dis-
solute but kind-hearted lawyer’s clerk, we would,
indeed, only be too happy to do so. As it is, how
ever, we feel bound to state that Mr. Emmett’s
delineation of the role was an unmitigated failure.
He was, to our mind, even when most amusing, the
very antithesis to the husband of the Marchioness.
He was noisy when he should have been quiet, and
subdued when he should have been demonstrative.
His by-play and general “ business,” though they
may be original, are by no means en accord with
the author’s conception of the character, and the
wonderful facial contortions to which Mr. Emmett
treated the audience were singularly out of place
in a piece like “ Quilp,” whatever they might be
in a farcical comedy like “ Pink Dominoes.” Mr.
Martin’s Grandfather was an exceedingly clever
clever piece of acting, and we have much pleasure
in welcoming him as a resident amongst us. Mr.
E. Marshall as Sampson Brass kept the audience
in roars by his eccentricities, and his efforts con-
tributed largely to the general success of the play.
Miss A. Melville made a capital Mrs. Jiniwin, but
was, on the whole, not quite so happy in her
double as Mrs. Jarley. Little Ada Wilson
acquitted herself very creditably as Mrs. Gossip,
and we trust that after the long run which “Quilp”
must of necessity command we shall see this clever
girl in a part in which she will have more scope
for her histrionic precocity. In conclusion, we
have only to say that “ Quilp,” even with the little
blemishes we have alluded to, is really one of the
best things that has been produced in Sydney for
many a long day ; and when it is taken into con-
sideration that this bright little piece is performed
with bright scenery in a bright little theatre, no
lover of the drama should fail to pay the Gaiety
an early visit. However, we recommend play-
goers, as a preliminary study, to make a careful
study of Dickens’ novel, a distinct recollection of
which will greatly enhance their enjoyment.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Ladies, in passing out of the Yankee carriages,
should lift up their trains.
The short girl should not cry because she’s not
tall. Let her remedy the evil by getting spliced.
Kissing is something like seven-up. If he begs,
and she thinks she can make a point in the game, she
will give him one.
“There is no place like home,” repeated Mr.
Henpeck, looking at a motto, and he heartily added,
“ I’m devilish glad there isn’t.”
The wife of Mr. Smith, of Carrow Brook,
Dunolly Estate, Singleton, has presented her happy
spouse with two boys and a girl!
The end of the Melbourne sealskin-jacket
smuggling affair is that the jackets have been given up
to Mrs. Inglis on payment of £ll odd for duty.
The Duchess of Westminster, whose death was
announced by cable the other day, was one of the
beautiful daughters of the Duchess of Sutherland.
From the satisfied expression that often illu-
minates a lady’s face while she is gazing in a mirror,
the superstition has grown that mirrors are in the
habit of giving women “ taffy."
Not a word was said in many of the Russian
papers about the marriage of the Czar. The Press
regulations forbid any information being given to the
public concerning the Emperor’s household.
A newly-married woman, who wished to impress
her husband with her abilities ns a housekeeper, bawled
out to the servant as she entered the door, “ Matildy,
bring me the washboard; I want to wash the potatoes
for dinner.”
The following appears in the Baewon Argus
of 22nd December “ Harry May will be at Crane’s
from the 23rd to the 28th inst. He desires to take
back a “ Touch,” that is, a wife, back to Bundabulla.
No humbug. Business meant.”
‘ ‘ Never marry for wealth,” says a contemporary,
“ but remember that it is just as easy to love a girl who
has a brick house, mansard roof, and a silver-plated
door-bell, as one who hasn’t anything but an auburn
head and an amiable disposition.”
At a Bazaar in England, .£lO was given for a
rose which had been in the fair grasp of the Princess of
Wales. Shakespeare says that “ a rose by any other
name would smell as sweet,” but it may bo added that
“ a rose by any other hand would not sell as high.”
White hair is so wondrously besoming to some
men, and to nearly all women. It gives a sweet, placid
expression to the face of an aged lady, and makes a
young one look younger. Besides, it is a cosmetic
rendering the look of the skin clearer, fairer, and
sober,
Two ladies went to the theatre the other evening.
In one of the affecting pauses of the play, when the
whole house was hushed in stillness, one lady who had
been using her opera-glass attentively, remarked to the
other, “ Pooh! The trimming on her dress is nothing
but Hamburg edging, after all.”
A courting couple in the Park. He : “Is oo
happy, ’ittle ootsy-wootsy ? ” She: “Oh, so happy 1
Is topy-nopsy happy ? ” He: “Oh, so happy! ” She:
“What would topsy-nopsy do if there was no ootsy-
wootsy in the world?” Gruff voice of a man in the
bushes: "Topsy-nopsy would be hugging some other
girl, that’s what.”
There may be sweeter music than a mother
singing to her child, but it is never heard on earth:—
“ Go to shlape, me babby,
Shet your eyes tu waust —
Yer the image of yerdoddy.
Go to sh
Arrah, ef you don't shet yer two eyes, an’ shtop yer
howlin’ this blessid minnut, I’ll wring the neck o’ ye—
yer crossh little brat! ” Yes, it is very sweet.
He was in the Lands office, and only received
£l5O a-year from an ungrateful Government. Her papa
had some valuable house property and some allotments.
They were very fond of each other, and had been
engaged ; but they quarrelled, and were too proud to
make it up. He called a few days ago at her father’s
house to see the old gentleman on business, of course.
She was at the door. Said he, “Ah Miss , I
believe—is your fatherin'? “No, sir,” she replied,
“ papa is not in at present. Do you wish to see him
personally?” “Yes,” was the bluff response, feeling
that she was yielding, “ on very particular personal
business,” and he turned proudly to go away. “ I beg
your pardon,” she called after him, as he struck the
lower step, “but who shall I say called?” He never
smiled again.
Queen Victoria has attained her 61st year,
an age exceeded by eleven only of the Sovereigns of
England, dating from the Norman conquest, namely:
Henry 1., who lived to the age of 67; Henry 111, who
lived to 65 years; Edward 1., who lived to be 67;
Edward 111., who attained 65 years ; Queen Elizabeth,
who reached 69 years ; James 11., who lived 68 years;
George 1., 67 years; George 11., 77 years ; George 111.,
82 years; George IV., 68 years, and William IV., who
lived to be 72 years. On the 20th of June she had
reigned over England 43 years, a period which has not
been exceeded by more than four English Sovereigns,
viz., Henry HI., who reigned 56 years; Edward HI.,
who reigned 50 years ; Queen Elizabeth, who reigned 45
years; and George HI., who reigned for the long period
of 60 years.
Fanny Belperond, who the other day brought a
young man named George Chapman before the Geelong
bench, and swore that he was her husband and had
deserted her seven years ago, has failed to prove her
case, and has apparently made a serious mistake.
Several of her relatives deposed that Chapman was very
like the man who had married Belperond, but they
declined to go any further. Defendant’s mother, his
employer, and several witnesses holding influential
positions gave evidence pointing to the conclusion that
the case was one of mistaken identity. It is a curious
coincidence, and one that must commend itself to all
who think that circumstances can’t lie, that though
Belperond swore that she recognised her alleged
husband merely “by his side face.” he bears a scar on
his arm coinciding with one described by her.
Bathing in salt water is represented to be an
effective cure for opium-eating.
Some wicked fellows recently played a wicked
trick on a friend who hod been once or twice down with
“D. T.” They turned two or three rats down in the
room where he was. Presently the victim saw one.
“ What’s that there ? arat!” “What.arat! where?”
said one of the tormentors, looking hard at the rat.
“Do you see any rat?” he asked innocently of his
friend. “ Eat, where ? ” said his friend, also looking
hard at the rat. “ What are you thinking of ? ” And
the matter was passed on with a palpable wink. Pre-
sently the unfortunate one saw another rat. “ What’s
that, hey? What another?” and the scene was gone
all over again. After a time the rats managed to escape
and when the room was quite clear of them the victim
turned round to his tormentors, saying, “ I was only
chaffing you chaps. I didn’t see any rats; not a bit of
it.”
it a (hic) success. Will the Telegraph say
[?]trait?
January 1. 1881.


T
H E A T R E
Lessee...
GREAT ATTEAC
for the
CHRISTMAS HOL
NEW OPERETTA—THE T1
NEW DIORAMA—ENGLAND
by
Mr. GEORGE GO]
NEW COMEDY—CHAMPAGN
EVERY EVENING, ai
Characters by Messrs. G. S. Tit
herd, Frank Cates, F. Beverley, ai
V Misses Blanche Stammers, I
George Gordon, and Miss Annie T
Scenery by Mr. GEORG!
Mechanical Effects by Mr. J
ARTHUR G
QUEEN’S T
Managers—Messrs. Coppi
Greville.
A Happy New Year
seats, 4s; private boxes, 30s; chile
3 years, half-price to reserved sea
arms not admitted.
PRICES—Pit, Is; stalls, 2s;
Box-office at Pali]
THIS and EVERY El
the Queen’s Christmas Pi!
with Annotations Local, Vocal i
different authors, and
JACK THE GIANT-
wroduced under the sole directioi
VILLE. Forming the most impn
exhibited to a Sydney audience, the
with glittering forms, each group t;
nent nationality, the whole combir
ture of brilliancy. TRANSFORM
Spring's Delights to Suma
HARLEQUIN AE
Clown ... Martin Fords | Panterlo
“ We wish yon all a fair goo(
And rosy dreams and sluml
Doors open at 7, Pantomime at 8
Department of ML
Sydney, 17th
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PC
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given thal
executes and takes delh
mentioned Gold-mining Lease
from this date, it will be declare
Peel and Uralla Minii
No., 195; C. B. Lowe and anotb
County of Gresham, parish of Mil
plication No., Glen Inues, 9-10.
Department of Mil
Sydney, 17th '
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS 1
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given tha
executes and takes delii
mentioned Mineral Lease withi
this date, it will be declared vo
No., 824; John Robertson; Port
of Gough, parish of Herbert; 20
No., Tingha 234.
Gr.
A. S M
88 KING STRI
(From Rotherham’s, L
HAS ALWAYS OH
♦
a first-class asaortmi
WATCHES AND JE^
by the best LONDON and CONTI
turers.
All repairs done on the premisi
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXF(
® E C~~
* GENERAL IMPORT MI
7 Barrack-street, Sj
BEST SELECTED GOODS FRC
AMERICA ON Si
ANTHONY HORDER
OF THE
HAYMARKET (ONI
CHRISTMAS AND NEWYEAE
Welcome news for all those affectionate Fathers, Mothe
Husbands, Aunts, Uncles, Grandmothers, &c., &o., and all who
NICE LITTLE PRESENT on CHRISTMAS or NEW YEAR
what to buy ” or where to buy it, VISIT
ANTHONY HORDERN A
PALACE SHOW ROOMS
And see the FASCINATING DISPLAY of NOVELTIES from
INCLUDING.—
FANS,
ALBUMS,
BRACELETS,
OPERA GLASSES,
DRESSING CASES,
FANCY PERFUMERY,
ILLUMINATED ALBUMS.
RUSSIAN LEATHER GOOD
LOVELY DOLLS PROM Id. TO
SEALSKIN PURSES, POCKET B(
WORK BOXES, PORTFOLIOS, WA
[_ .Legal, J
s
HOETEE, FITZGERALI
SOLICIT©]
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEE]
and
MACQUAEIE STEEE1
Mr. Shorter, Notary
w
T EGAL.—Mr. T, M.
SOLICITOE. has co
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
MAC
POETEAIT PAI
225 BOUEKE STEEET, WOC
ME. AND M E S
Experienced and thorough]
PATHIC PEACTITIONI
MENT DAILY, at 107 Lit
Pamphlets gratis.
AND S. P ]
SAW MILLS AND TIM
16 Erskine Stri
Every description df Foreign a
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., ai
It
OBEET BUTC
(Late William L
WINE AND SPIEIT MI
53-1 GEOEGE STB
OPPOSITE TOWN HAL3
Country Orders Ebceivb Pr
VAENIS
ALEX. BOETHY
OIL AND COLOE ME]
Importer of Paperhi
Oils, Colors, Var
White Lead, Glass, 1
Marble and Enamelled Slat
Fenders, Tiles, and (
Eoom and Picture-Frame
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STE]
T H A E
* WHEEL WEIGHT ANI
BUILDEE, &c
Hay and Engine Si
Established 185
Builder of WAGGONS, DEATS,
BUSINESS CAETS, LOJ
Eailway Contractors would find it i
inspect the large stock of seasoi
able for Dobbins and other J
J. HAUTE'
Hay and Engine Si
DOTS! BOOTS!!
MAKE YOKE PUE
AT
H. H I L D E ]
NEW BOOT
670 GEOEGE SI
BKICKFIELD HI
ALL NEW GOODS, JL r !
AND TO BE SOI
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE
I
T
0 TOURISTS AND OTI
NEW ZEALAN
The Auckland Route is the shor
route to the wonderful Hot Lake 1
HOTEL, Albert-Street, Auckland
to the Wharf and Railway Statior
advantageous inducements to trave
cent Hotel is luxuriously furnish*
every appurtenance and appliance (
house.
Visitors to Auckland would do
suburb accommodation obtainah
STAR,” before deciding where the
selves.
W. A. CLARKE
ADAM CAIRNS
SPECIALITY :
CABLES AND AN
Direct special attention to their
CHOICE TEAS
A good useful tea
Good family tea
A really first-class tea
A fine blend of Indian and
Finest blended tea, unsurp
Finest Indian pekoe
Superior coffee
G
CABLES AND ANDERSON,
724 GEOEGE S
HAYMARKET
R.
]
Wholesale and Re
PRODUCE MERI
riamAr
POSTAGE
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
TEAMWAY
[?]
\r H. A E
▼ • PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 and 345 Kent-street, ne.
SOLE AGENT for the undermenti
R. Whittingham & Co.’s Lond<
Goo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria 1
Swallow & Ariel!’s Victoria E
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toi
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Co
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Qoulbum
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, ne;
SYDNEY MEAT-PEESER'*
(LIMITED).
Winners of the FIRST PRIZES-
Philadelphia, 1876; and GOLD M
The Company’s MEATS, EXTRj
SOUPS can be bought at the estah
Messrs. H. S. Bird and Co., Circnli
Samuel Bennett and Co., gr
J. G. Hanks and Co., groce:
Slocum, Brothers, grocers,
Sargent and Collie, Macqm
Mr. James Kidman, grocer, Georgi
Civil Service Co-operative Society,
and
Mr. D. D. Henderson, Chnrch-stre<
JOHN B. C. N
No. 58, Margaret-street.


ADRIENNE:
A LOVE STORY OF
The Lancashire Cotton Distress.
BOOK II.—THE STORM.
CHAPTER IX.— Continued.
They met at the gate. Adrienne’s face, after a faint
smile, seemed to grow still paler and calmer. She held
out her hand. Myles toot off his cap, and though he did
not smile—unless a slight quiver about the comers of
his mouth could be called a smile—yet he took her hand
and they spoke together for a moment at the gate. It
was quite evident that it was Adrienne, and not Myles,
who made the pause and carried on the conversation
which took place before they both came on, past the
windows (which had the lower panes frosted, on pur-
pose to baffle vulgar curiosity), without seeing the two
striking countenances that were watching them.
Myles left Adrienne at the door of the second room,
and she went on to the ladies’ room.
Frederick Spenceley had entirely forgotten the pres-'
ence of anyone but himself He gave vent to his feel-
ings in a low but dist’nctly audible—
“ D n them 1”
He suddenly felt a touch on his arm, and, turning
round, with his usual disproportionate start, beheld
Mr. Hoyle at his elbow, looking into his face.
“ Oh! Confound you! What do you want, creeping
up to a fellow in that way ?”
“ I beg your pardon, sir. I have been looking at that
man, Myles Heywood ..."
“ What, that’s the blackguard’s name, is it ?"
“ Yes, sir. My step-son. A —some young ladies choose
strange friends, sir; don’t you think so
Spenceley was about to ask roughly what business of
his it was; but something in the intent, glittering fixity
of the man’s gaze held him fast.
“ Perhaps they do,” said he, slowly. “ What then
“ Only this. That young man’s mother is now my
wife. I ought to know what sort of a character he is.
I ought to know something about the young lady, too.
If the facts about both of them, the real facts, were
known, she would be in a different position from what
she has, and he ”
Mr. Hoyle laughed.
“ He—what about him ? ” asked Mr. Spenoeley,
almost breathlessly.
“Well, I don’t think that young fool of a master of
Ms ”
“ Who is his master ? ’’
“ Mallory.”
“Ah h!”
“ He’s taken a fancy to him ; he’s offered to help him.
Ho did help him to his present place. But it was in
ignorance of the facts. If he knew the facts, my young
gentleman would not be in such a hurry to patronise
him. In fact he’d be ruined.”
“ Facts—what facts ? ”
“Ah!" said Mr. Hoyle. “That’s just it. Properly
to investigate and establish those facts might be rather
expensive."
“Oh! you are .certain that if they were known they
would have the requisite effect ? ”
“You mean ”
“ Of parting him and her—of punishing her ? ”
“ I tell you, he would leave the place, and she would
cry her eyes out. I know it.”
“And about how expensive would that be?”
demanded Spenceley.
“ It would cost a hundred pounds, and I should want
five-and-twenty to go on with —the rest down when I
tell you he has gone.”
“This is five-and-twenty,” he remarked. “I must
give them a cheque for it instead of money down. But
remember, if you’re cheating me ”
“ On my soul and honour, sir,” said Hoyle, with
almost vehement earnestness, “ you may trust me. It’s
as much my cause as yours. And meantime, if you should
hear any reports to the disadvantage of a certain lady,
don’t deny them —I told you I knew some queer facts
about them both.”
Scarcely had the money been transferred to the keep-
ing of Mr. Hoyle, than the door was opened, and Canon
Ponsonby, Sebastian Mallory, and others, came in.
Mr. Hoyle began to study his documents, and Fred
Spenceley to look out of the window again, his heart
beating unheroically fast, with a sense of peril of which
he felt ashamed, and an undercurrent of eager thirst
for revenge, the stronger because there was now some
prospect of its being gratified.
CHAPTER X.
“ Bear not false witness; let the lie
Have time on its own wing to fly.”
One fine morning, Mrs. Mallory, her son, and Hugo
von jjirtenau aat at breakfast, and the young men
maintained a decorous silence while the lady held forth
on what was at present her favourite topic, the approach-
ing ball at Castle Hill, in honour of Helena’s coming of
age.
Helena will be the belle at her own ball,” she
observed. “ I called the other day, and Mrs. Spenceley
showed me her dress. It had just come from Paris.
!t is perfectly exquisite. Even you, Sebastian, will be
able to find no fault with that toilette."
“Black velvet, diamonds, and point lace?” he sug-
gested. That would be just like her, and then it is a
costume on which you may spend an indefinite amount
of money.”
How ill-natured you are! It is a charming dress,
and she will look lovely in it. I hope you have secured
one dance, at any rate, or you will have no chance now.”
He confessed that he had not anted with sufficient
spirit in that respect; he had never even thought of
asking for a dance.
“ Then lam sure she will be very much hurt. She let
me see the other day that she thought a great deal
about your coming."
“If she did, she is not the girl I take her for,” said
he, looking rather impatient. It was not Mrs.
Mallory s fault if her son remained sceptical on the
f j f cfc Heleua Spenoeley’s penchant for him. She
mid long ago seen that it was useless for her to dangle
Helena’s hundred thousand pounds before his eyes; he
would none of it, whereas to Mrs. Mallory it was an
ornament which grew more becoming and more desirable
the longer she looked at it. She had discovered, or
thought she had discovered, that Sebastian was very
anxious not to hurt the feelings of any one, by neglect
or unkindness, “that is, of any one but myself,” as she
plaintively told herself—and she thought that if she
pioturjd in colours strong enough the affection which
she was determined Helena had for him. this sensitive-
ness of his might lead to the desired results—sooner or
later.
“Any other man," Mrs. Mallory said to herself,
“ would have fallen in love with the girl fqr her beauty
alone, if she had not had a penny; but in that case of
course he would have fallen in love with her."
Then she tried to excite his self-esteem, and pique his
anwur propre, by telling him that Helena was very diffi-
cult to please, and had already had half a dozen, more
or less, eligible offers, all of which she had refused sans
fafon.
“I can quite beleive it,” was the tranquil reply.
Saas faqon exactly describes her manner and her
character as well. She has no idea of any medium.
Wild enthusiasms and extravagant hatreds ”
(“ Like me,” murmered Hugo to his plate).
“ And I have no doubt she did refuse the ‘ six braw
gentlemen ’ you mention, nnceremoniously enough.”
Mrs. Mallory would have despaired, if she had not
taken comfort in the idea that Sebastian liked to con-
ceal his feelings from her, which argued that perhaps he
cherished a secret passion for Helena, and would do as
he ought to do, if he were let alone.
Her fears as to the influence of Adrienne Blisset were
fitful and intermittent. Sometimes that adventuress
did not particularly disturb her mental peace, but at
other moments a dread fear seized her lest the game
should be going in the very direction she least wished it
to take; lest the obstacle which interfered with her
plans and wishes was not Sebastian’s utter and unac-
countable mdiii'erance to beauty, love, and a hundred
thousand pounds, but a misguided, infatuated inclina-
tion on his part, for a daughter of Heth, with neither
beauty (compared with Helena) nor pretensions. When
attacked by such thoughts, Mrs. Mallory felt herself
turn cold and numb with fear. The idea of Adrienne
Blisset promoted to her place was the most thoroughly
unpleasant—not to say altogether hideous —idea that had
ever occurred to her.
On the morning in question, Sebastian, on being asked
what his plans were, said he should be in his office all the
morning, and at a committee meeting in the afternoon.
Would he be in to lunch at half-past one? Yes, he
fully expected so; and with that he said good morning,
and went away.
The others went their several ways. Hugo retired to
the drawing-room, to a packet of transcendental Ger-
man music, and to the spinning out certain music of
his own. Mrs. Mallory, after an interview with her
housekeeper, ordered her carriage for half-past eleven,
wrote letters in the breakfast room till that time, and
then got ready and drove out in the said carriage. The
proverbial “ spectator might have seen" the equipage
go from one place to another in the town, and afterwards
to certain mansions in the vicinity of the same, where
its mistress made state calls. (It was the fashion in
Thanshope to make state calls in full dress between
twelve and one.) It was quite half-past one when Mrs.
Mallory forsook the war-path, and returning home
came into the dining-room. She sat down to lunch
without removing her bonnet. She was dressed in her
favourite lavender and black, and so attired, with a now
and unusual expression of animation and amiability on
her high features, she looked a handsome, agreeable,
though rather thin-lipped English matron.
The gong sounded. First Hugo strolled in, and raised
his dark eyes in astonishment when the lady srraciouslv
and sweetly inquired: 7
, “ May I give you some soup, Mr. von Birkenau ? "
“ No, thank you," he replied, politely but tentatively.
“ How warm it is, is it not ? So unlike the end of
May. May is generally such a bad month in England:
don't you think so ? "
“You should know best," said Hugo, bowing
solemnly, and somewhat nervous under this excessive
amiability.
“ I wonder what Sebastian is doing,” she remarked,
still graciously. “He really seems to have his hands
quite full.”
At that moment he came in.
“ Sorry to be so late, but Sutcliffe kept me. Soup?
No, thanks. I’ll trouble you for some of that cold fowl,
Hugo, please."
* ‘ And will you give me a little sherry, my dear ? ” said
his mother.
Sebastian, too, changed countenance at this tone,
privately wondering “ what next ? " but poured out the
sherry with imperturbable gravity.
The meal proceeded in silence for some little time,
until it occurred to Sebastian to ask :
“ Where have you been all morning, mother? "
“ Driving,” was the vague reply, and another pause
ensued.
Sebastian poured out a glass of sherry, drank some of
it, and then thought he would trouble Hugo again; he
was so awfully hungry. Hugo, with a gravity amount-
iug to gloom, wrenched the second wing from the fowl
before him, and placed it upon Sebastian’s plate.
Sebastian was watching the operation with the intense
eagerness of a mind quite at ease; and it was at this
juncture that Mrs. Mallory said :
“ Sebastian, I am sorry to hear of a very strange
thing in connection with that girl—what is her name P—
whose uncle’s affairs you somehow got mixed up with."
Hugo’s eyes gave a flash. That was what was coming.
“Do you mean Miss Adrienne Blisset P" asked
Sebastian, in a distinct voice.
“ Blisset—yes. Miss Blisset. She professes to take a
great interest in the relief affairs."
“So far as I know, the interest is real—at least if hard
work is any test of reality.”
“ She appears to choose very strange people as her
intimate friends.” ,
“ Myself, par example ? ” he suggested.
War was now declared. The blandness had dis-
appeared from Mrs. Mallory’s countenance. The
excitement remained. Her son did not appear to her
to be excited, but Hugo, glancing at him. felt a little
thrill as he saw all the slight signs which he so well
understood, and which told him that his friend was
moved, much moved, unpleasantly moved.
Mrs. Mallory, all unconscious how much Sebastian
knew, and reckless of the storm she was inviting to
descend upon herself, continued :
“ I must say, I hope you are not amongst her intimate
friends, unless you wish to be placed on the level of low,
immoral, atheistical work-people; the very dregs of
the lower orders.”
“It is asserted that Miss Blisset selects her friends
from the dregs of the lower orders ?” he inquired with
ominous politeness.
“ The case does not rest on mere assertion. Her
uncle professed peculiar opinions, and she carries them
to extremes, as is the way with those women whe have
been brought up amongst men, and always led a vaga.
bond life.”
Sebastian smilled slightly as he carefully balanced a
fork upon his little finger.
“ Apres?" he inquired.
“ She made the acquaintance of a young man of whose
character the less is said the better—picked him up at
some reading room where she used to go in an evening
—an evening,” said Mrs. Mallory, in an utterly indes-
cribable tone. “ She encouraged him to visit her, and
he did sa repeatedly; he is a socialist, an atheist, and
altogether immoral. How far the connection may have
gone I cannot pretend to say, but this I know, that
Frederick Spenceley, who is not exactly straight-
laced ”
“ No, certainly not.”
“ Frederick Spenceley declined to make her acquaint-
ance, and took his sister away, and declined to let her
converse with her.”
“You have this information from a reliable source ?”
“ Perfectly reliable. I am not at liberty to say who
told me, but I must say the news exactly agrees with
what my own judgment led me to expect. I always
said . . .”
“ Pardon! No matter what you have always said, or
what other people say. I can tell you the truth, not
from any second-hand source, but from my own personal
knowledge of the circumstances. The young man of
whom you have heard such a delightful character was,
though he n® longer is, one of my own work-people.
He is perfectly respectable, and of unstained char-
acter. _ If Frederick Spenceley were one hundredth
part—if he could ever become one hundredth part as
much of a gentleman as Myles Heywood naturally is, he
might congratulate himself. He—Heywood, I mean—
is a friend of Miss Blisset’s, and the fact honours both
him and her. I have met him at her uncle’s house, and
I have shaken hands with him in his own house. He is
a man whom I honour and respect very much. So much
for that part of your information. For the rest, that
Frederick Spenceley refused to make Miss Blisset’s
acquaintance—my dear mother, lam surprised that a
woman of your knowledge of the world should believe
such a story. I happened to be present then, too. Miss
Spenceley wished to introduce her brother to Miss
Blisset, and the latter declined the acquaintance; I
believe that she had excellent reasons for doing so. I
pitied Miss Spenceley, from my soul, for she is as
superior to her blackguard of a brother as heaven is to
earth. But—l trust you will see the wisdom of making
the best of Miss Blisset, and not the worst, for I shall
ask her to be my wife—to-day, if I get the chance, and
if not, on the very first opportunity."
Mrs. Mallory had sat, during this long harangue,
drawing deep breaths, but at the lost announcement,
made with an emphasis unusual to Sebastian, it seemed
suddenly to burst upon her, how entirely she had over-
reached herself, and she rose from her chair very pale;
and, but that her pride forbade it, would have burst into
tears of mortification.
“There is no ingratitude like that of a child to a
mother," said she, in an icy voice. “ You have done all
you could to humiliate me and cross my wishes, ever
since your return, and now you insult me by seeking out
the least ”
They were at the door. He had opened it for her,
but as she looked up in uttering those words, she
paused, subdued by a certain expression in his eyes and
mouth.
“ Don’t speak too recklessly of that lady. It will do
no good, and you would repent it," he remarked.
She did not finish her sentence, but swept out of the
room, and he gently closed the door after her.
He stood in the middle of the room, biting his lip,
till Hugo came up to him and took his hand.
“ Dear Sebastian, I wish you success, though, freilicli,
I fancied you would marry Miss Spenceley.”
r I, wonder f’’ asked Sebastian, impatiently.
‘ I cannot imagine why I am supposed to be destined
for Miss Spenceley, or she for me. She cannot endure
I me, and makes no secret of her dislike. . . .”
“ You could overcome that,” suggested his counsellor
audaciously.
“ Could I ? She is perfectly charming, I don’t wish
to deny, but I have loved Adrienne Blisset for years,
and I am not going to give her up unless she refuses
me.”
“ Fellows don’t always give up when they are refused,”
suggested Hugo again.
“ Finish your lunch and hold your tongue. What I
was going to say is, that my mother is answerable for a
groat deal of mischief by persisting in marrying me to
Miss Spenceley.”
“ If there had been no such person as you, then there
would have been no mischief," said Hugo, apparently
throwing in the observation between two sips of claret,
for he had obediently returned to the table.
“What do you mean ? ” asked his friend, stopping in
his promenade between the two windows.
“ I mean what I say.”
“ Why, do you mean that I have ever encouraged—”
“ Miss Spenceley ? Ibewahre! No. But ”
“ I shall do you some serious bodily harm if you don’t
curb your boundless impertinence. Do you mean that
I ever encouraged my mother’s scheme in any way P"
“Can’t say. I’ve done. Adieu!” said Hugo, going
out of the room, and singing in an insultingly loud
voice—
“ Willst du dein Hcrz mir schenken,
So fang’ es heimlich an!”
[to be continued].
“Good gracious!” ejaculated Mrs. Caudle as
he hurriedly disrobed and tumbled into bed. “ What
have you been drinking or eating ? What is the matter
with your breath ?” “Liquorish,” he responded, and
then he winked at himself in the dark and breathed
thin till he got to sleep.
This is what he said to his sweetheart:—
The little bubbles floating on the wave
Are all soft kisses which the west wind gave;
The luscious glow upon the peach’s face
Bears blushing witness to the sun's embnee;
And those two dimples, sweet, that c me and go.
Tell tales of true love kisses—is it so ?
MR. C. WIGZELL’S ESTABLISHMENT IN OXFORD STREET—(See page 3).


O T I C E
SCARCITY OF WATER.
When the water becomes low in
Wells, Tanks, or other Reservois, it
is more or less IMPURE, and should
always be FILTERED before drink-
ing; the GERMS of DISEASE are
thus prevented from entering the
system.
Thousands had a drink of pure
water from these Filters which were
placed in the Garden Palace during
the late International Exhibition.
Guard against TYPHOID FEYER
and all other diseases arising from
drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAYIN’S RAPID WATER
FILTERS.
Every Filter guaranteed to be
perfect or exchanged.
PATSKT
.'"'KnjILFaiMIINC
»wrt« fiitib
R
APID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole
Agents for George Cheavin’s Rapid
Water Filter, which is adopted in
preference to all others by the English
and Foreign Governments, the Hite of
the Medical Profession, Hospitals,
Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note
throughout the United Kingdom and
the whole of Europe, but it has made
its way into the mort remote parts of
the Globe—a success unparalleled by
any other Filter. Its superiority over
all others for purity of water, rapidity
of action, simplicity of construction,
durability, and efficiency, is verified
by the numerous Gold and Silver
Medals it has been awarded in Eng-
land, the continent of Europe,
America, and Australia.
SIZES KEPT IN STOCK.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
T E Y E S * P E B PE C T PU RIPIER (PATE NT).
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic Detergent, and Deodoriser
F of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
wo^erih^deSorise”dUtofectanL
Vrnm Mr H Meads, Sydney :—My child had sore eyes for years, and Jeyes * cure 2 _
one week —From cJ A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jagues, Boiic i tors;, Sydney r For des-
troyhig aphis Ind ail aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes
Sold iifDrums B and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale ? n^y /
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London, Agents wanted for the Country,
CD
<*
fl-
oe
PRIZE
Cocoa
CO
Against the world
R, Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
O
CD
<«
m;
BUY^^
m
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported 5
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
CO
DC
MustarD
'A
/
s
IN G £ R’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co, Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing, employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES <£6 10s. Cash.
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms— ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it? Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FAßLElGH, NETTHEIM & CO
MARTIN
389
George Street
80L«
&
Agents
FOR
S
s*
Hornsby
SYDNEY.
$
Angla-Auitralian
STRIPPERS
& PAIN
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest
WITH
4
AND
187
189
*
Requei
*
Farmers
York
examine
*
%
a
Hornsby
STRIPPERS
Our HORNSBY'S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
combine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvements to secure
Clean Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during the recent DAMP ENGLISH
HARVEST fully proved that We have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
The Leading House in tlie Agricultural Implement Business.
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOYE AND CO
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. • „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
REDGATE’S
PATENT MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet for
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old by all Grocer* and Storekeeper#,
mM
PITT STREETSYDNET
BEAUTIFUL
OR
ALLWOOL
Tp TWEED
&
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
CllT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooofatterns'°choose from
H L SUMMERFIELD
PiTTS T SYDNEY.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
Jjl GREER AND CO. ’ S
*PE I Z E
ALBUEY
Eed Wines ;
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
WINES.
White Wines:
Eeisling
V erdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLAES:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY :EPriuted and published by the Proprietors,
John Haynes and J. E. Archibald, at the Offices of
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
TT\ EYSDALE AND EGBERTS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street,
lEONMONGEES, lEONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPOETEES,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Rims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, &o.
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron, &c., &c.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, &c. &c.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Hon, Steel,
And
GENEEAL lEONMONGEEY.
W 1
'ILLOOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
W OODj
&C. t &C.| &c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
rjIHE BEST PAINT IN THE WOELD.
£
*
LAsrie
rtONOM'CM.
e
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and } gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.” ,
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required ore
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
MEEICAN MACHINBEY DEPOT.
H, P. GEIGOEY AND CO.,
N®. 11, PITT-STREHT,
Importers of all Descriptions o
M
C
E E
Y.
H I N
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, &c., &c.
Circulars and Prices.
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINE TUM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. TAYLER $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
LAZAEUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMEEICAN HAEDWAEE,
CHINA, GLASS, EAETHENWAEE,
B. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONEEY, CLOCKS. JEWELLEEY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORK STREET.
