

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7—No. 89.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1881.
Price —3d,
bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1881.
The Gas Company’s “Go-as-you-please.”
The report of the Select Committee appointed by
the Legislative Assembly to examine the Austra-
lian Gaslight Company’s Bill —a little private
measure designed to enlarge the existing powers
of the Company which supplies the capital of
New South Wales with gas —has just been pub-
lished. But for the watchfulness of one or two
members of the Assembly, this measure, appar-
ently innocent and formal, and merely affecting
the internal arrangements of the Company, might
have passed into law, almost unnoticed. The
report of the Committee exposes how serious a
wrong would, in such a case, have been inflicted
upon the public. The Committee deem it their
duty to recommend that the Bill be not allowed to
pass the House in its present state, for sundry very
sufficient reasons. In the first place, because the
Gas Company are not bound by their Act of
Incorporation to supply gas of a higher illu-
minating power than that afforded by an
ordinary oil lamp; and, of course, there
is nothing in their own proffered Bill to impose a
higher standard. Secondly, the Company have, so
runs the report, “ a complete monopoly for the
supply of gas, and may charge what price they
please for the gas supplied, and may therefore
increase their dividends without limit.” Thirdly,
“ the Company are not bound to supply meters,
nor are they compelled to have the meters tested or
stamped by impartial authority.” “ The evidence
shows conclusively that meters have been ordered
by the late engineer of the Company to be rated
by the maker at “ three per cent, over—not less”
(the italics are in the report), “ and that meters to
this order are now in use, to the disadvantage of
the consumer.”
# * #
This is a revelation, indeed. The citizens of
Sydney have for years been, and to-day are, at
the mercy of gigantic monopoly which wields
the power of laying them under contribution to
any extent. A conquering army could scarcely
exercise a more formidable control. For years
there has existed a degree of uneasiness and
anxiety relative to the chance of one of the
necessaries of city life being deficient. Millions
are to be expended to provide against a possible
deficiency of water. Yet all the time it has been
at the discretion of a handful of capitalises to
give or withhold light, another necessary of
almost equal importance. The citizens’ first
sensation will probably be one of alarm. But
they have reason to be profoundly thankful.
Their masters —the Gas Company—have, at least,
tempered despotism with mercy. They have
granted a light a good deal better than an ordinary
oil lamp. They have been “ the mildest-mannered
men that ever cut a throat.” This discreet ring
has abstained from killing with exactions the
goose which laid the golden eggs, and has been
content to pluck it scientifically. What their
profits have been, no man who is not in the
charmed circle, even after the inquiry just ter-
minated, can say. The conversion of profits into
capital, by re-investment in additional works,
mains, land, and so forth, has been so ingeniously
conducted that the published returns afford no
clue, despite the periodical appearance in these
accounts of sums for “reserves” of various
natures, for “ unappropriated profits,” and for
“ rests” generally far exceeding the amount
formally divided as profits.
* * *
In order properly to comprehend the ability
with which the squeezing process has been
managed, it will be requisite to understand the
opportunites enjoyed by the company. They
have operated from the first under a convenient
statute, procured during the infancy of the colony,
when gas-making was a process little understood.
There have since been in England repeated
amendments and alterations of the law, all impos-
limitations upon the companies selling gas,
providing checks in the interest of the con-
sumer. The Australian Gas-light Company of
pydney has been hampered by no such modern
interferences. In England the gas supplied to
consumers has to be examined constantly by
entirely independent authorities, who represent
the consumer, and are appointed by the State or by
"he Corporation of the town where the gas
Hi used. In Sydney there is no provision of the
fan d. In Great Britain every meter has to be
examined, guaged, and stamped by a Government
official. In Sydney there is no such obligation.
In most populous places there are at least rival
companies contending for custom, regulating the
Price of gas by their own competition. In Sydney
“creia but one company, whiehhas no competitive
check. Everywhere there has been at least a free
an< i numerous press, through the medium of which
consumers could ventilate their grievances, and to
wnich a hint conveyed would be stimulus sufficient.
for instituting particular inquiries, and publishing
resultant observations with the single object of
gaining public esteem and confidence by doing
good service to the community. But could a
place bo conceived where thereihad been for years
but a single influential journal, and the proprietor
of that journal chairman of the Board of Directors
of the Gas Company, in which, also, shares were
largely held by his connections and near relatives,
even that protection to the public might there be
lacking.
# # #
But, it may be observed, in reference to the ab-
sence of an independent check, by examination,
upon the quality and quantity of the gas supplied
to the consumers, reports of such a check are
regularly and prominently published in the S. M.
Herald, as furnished by the Government Analy-
tical Chemist, Mr. Watt. This is an ingenious
illusion. Mr. Watt is, it is true, Government
Analytical Chemist, but it is not as a
Government officer at all that he conducts these
tests. For them he is not responsible to the
Government; he is not even instructed or paid by
the Government in connection with them. His
proceedings in reference to them never come
officially under the notice of the Government at
all. If Mr. Watt were as incompetent and
corrupt in the discharge of this function as he is
no doubt competent and upright, and if he were
attached to a New York “ ring ” the Government
would have nothing to do with it. In short, Mr.
Watt is himself a shareholder in the Gas Com-
pany, is paid by the Company for the tests ho
makes, and ia responsible to the Company only.
In other words, these tests, so prominently thrnst
in the face of the public—in the guise of
reports by the Government Analytical Chemist —
are, in fact, made by a shareholder and paid ser-
vant of the monopoly, and —it is but human to
suppose—as much for the purposes of the mono-
poly, as in the interests of the public. Even an
analytical chemist cannot serve two masters.
» # «
Then, as to meters. In Great Britain a margin
for error is permitted to the extent of 3 per cent,
over, or 3 per cent under. That is to say, in view
of the likelihood of slight derangements of the
mechanism, the gas companies are exempt from
responsibility for errors not exceeding that pro-
portion in the measurement recorded by their
meters. But the Sydney Company are not com-
pelled to furnish meters at all unless they choose,
nor are they under any obligation as to the
accuracy of those they do furnish. And it is on
record that from the year 1869 to the year 1873,
meters were issued by them which were specifi-
cally constructed to the order of their engineer
not to be less than 3 per cent, fast, so that the
margin of error ran always above accurate
measurement, but could scarcely by any chance
be below. It is true that the Directors repudiate
any knowledge of this order having gone forth
until the latter year But meters so issued are
still in use, and no return has ever been made, or
yet appears to be contemplated, to the consumers
of Sydney, who have been, by these falsified in-
struments, made to pay through the nose, —we
will not say plundered, because the Company ia
legally entitled to use meters 99 per cent, fast, if
such were its good pleasure.
* # *
Afto l- this, it appears a small matter what price
the Company has been, and is, nominally pleased
to charge for gas. As a matter of fact, it charges,
and now makes a great deal of the circumstance,
sixpence per 1000 feet less than is charged by the
Melbourne Gas Companies, But it happens, rather
awkwardly for the value of this plea," that the
coal raised in Melbourne for gas-making costs
nearly three times what coal costs the Sydney
Company ; and daring critics, experts in the
business, have ventured to assert that conse-
quently gas could in Sydney be sold at just
half the rate which rules in Melbourne, and then
yield an equal profit. Again, meters some-
times go wrong. They are as liable as watches
to get out of order. If they record too little, the
Company’s reader, who visits them weekly to note
the consumption, may be trusted to look after his
employers’ interests. If they record too much —
aye, there's the rub ! —the Company’s reader may
reasonably suppose that the consumer has been
burning night and day. If the consumer, how
ever, winces under the costly process, and sig
fies that he has no confidence in the meter, hej J
told that he is welcome to send the instrument
in by his own fitter, and if he likes to incur
the expense, he may do so. But as in small domi-
ciles, the expense means outlay of ready money—
probably more than the difference on the quarter’s
cost for suspected extra gas—the speculation is
one ordinarily declined as a matter of course.
# * *
A very persistent person, who makes trouble
and spends time in interviewing and worrying the
officials at head-quarters, may succeed in getting
the Company to remove his meter at their own ex-
pense—and perhaps keep it for a week for all he
knows, leaving him to enjoy darkness or spend a
little more in buying lamps or candles. But when
the meter has actually been sent in, there is no
satisfactory proof that the consumer is better off
than before. It is tested indeed, in presence of
the consumer, or of his fitter, who must be licen-
sed by the Company, of course, if they are
graciously pleased to approve of his competency
and general suitableness, and who naturally is
not desirous of making himself obnoxious. The
meter is tested or rated by a standard which—
oddly enough-has neveritself been rated, stamped,
guaged, or corrected—which bears no Government
seal, and is merely accepted as accurate because
years ago, the maker in England, sent it out to
order. What sort of order that was, whether it
was of the same kind as that remarkable order
for meters—to be three per cent, fast, and not
less, cannot be known. It may be correct, pro-
bably it is, but there is no certainty in the matter.
The evidence is too voluminous to be exhausted in
one article. The whole dealings of the Company
with the Sydney Corporation, the quality of the
gas, the times and modes which affect the so-called
tests, all afford themes for remark. Respecting
these we may have more to say, hereafter.
Mr. Edward Farley.
This accomplished baritone, whose portrait
forms one of our illustrations this week, joined
the operatic profession in the year 1870, and he
has ever since his debut continued to rise, year by
year, in popular favour. Mr. Farley is one of
those lucky mortals, who can lay his hand on his
heart and say, with truth, “ I have never been a
failure.” Wherever his fortune has called him,
Mr. Farley has always secured the applause of the
public, and the good-will of the Press. Amongst
the many remarkable operatic impersonations in
which he excels, his Mephistopheles, in *' Faust,”
may be considered his greatest artistic triumph.
It is a deeply studied and a deeply felt representa-
tion of one of the most arduous characters in the
whole range of opera. Then, to jump from grand
opera to opera bouffe, it will be a striking proof of
Mr. Farley’s versatility to state that in the
“ Grand Duchess ” his General Boom is a masterly
performance, only excelled by his extraordinarily
grotesque impersonation of Mourzouk, in
‘ Girofle-Girofla.” In a word, Mr. Farley is an
artist who can justly claim to take the highest
rank in his profession in these colonies. In this
city, when performing with the Montague-Turner
Opera Company, Mr. Farley made a distinct suc-
cess in every opera in the company’s repertoire,
and his appearance on the stage was nightly the
signal for that cordial welcome which a Sydney
audience knows so well how to award to a truly
talented artist. Mr. Farley is yet a young man,
and has, therefore, many more laurels to earn.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Departmental Facetiousness.
It is reported of the late celebrated Charles Lamb
that his punctuality was not phenomenal; in fact, it
was an exception to find him at his office at the proper
hour. He embodied his sentiments upon the subject
of Early Rising in the following lines :
“ So here I lie, my morning calls deferring.
Till some time nearer to the stroke of noon :
The man that’s fond precociously of stirring
Must be a spoon ! ”
The story goes that one day his superior officer remon-
strated with him; remarking, as he met him at the
office door a little more than an hour behind his time,
* Hear me, Mr. Lamb I you come very late in the morn-
ing 1 ” “ Y es, I know,’’ sweetly responded the delin-
quent, “ but I make it up for it by going away very
early in the afternoon I ” There was wit in the reply
hut it was of an outrageous and impertinent order : and
outrageous impertinence, although it may occasionally
be amusing in a subordinate, ia the same thing in
principle as insolent tyranny in a chief; for the leading
feature of each is a callous disregard for the feelings of
others. The heads of the Department of Public In-
gtruction are humourists of the Charles Lamb type—
but they are not subordinates. We make them a present
of the inference. Here is a specimen of their genial
pleasantry. The reduction of school fees and the
enforcement, in some districts, of the compulsory
MR. EDWARD FARLEY, THE POPULAR BARITONE


THE GENUINE AMERICAN
HOP BITTERSI
Manufactured by the
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO. OP
ROCHESTER, N.T., U.S.A.
are a
MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK.
The above Company axe well-known as being- the
originators of the
HOP BITTERS PRIZE,
The great boat race rowed on the Thames, and so suc-
cessfully carried off by the
GALLANT LAYCOCK, of AUSTRALIA.
hop bTtters
are the
PUREST, BEST, AND CHEAPEST MEDICINE
ever made.
They are compounded from
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (Podophyllin),
AND DANDELION,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and Valuable
Medicines in the World, and in addition contain all
the best and most effective curative properties of
all other Bitters, being the greatest BLOOD PURI-
FIER and life and health restoring agent on earth.
REMEMBEB THIS ! IP YOU ARE SICK,
HOF BITTERS
will surely aid nature in making you well again
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a resident of a mias-
matic district, barricade your system against the
scourge of all countries—malarial, epidemic, bilious,
and intermittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are suffering
from any other of the numerous diseases of the
stomach or bowels, it is your own fault if yon re-
main ill, for HOP BITTERS are a sovereign
remedy in all such complaints.
If you are wasting away with any form of Kidney
disease, stop tempting Death this moment, and
turn for a cure to HOP BITTERS
If you are sick with that terrible sickness Her-
vousness, you will find a “ Balm in Gilead " in the
use of HOP BITTERS.
In short, they cure ALL diseases of the Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidueys, 4c., and
JBSOO
will be paid for a case they will not cure or help, or
for anything impure or injurious found ia them.
That poor, bedridden, invalid wife, sister, mother,
or daughter, can be made the picture of health by
a few bottles of Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
|WILL YOU LET THEM SUPPER 1
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yoa will have no sickness or Buffering.
Large square panelled amber colour bottles. White
label with green Hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other.
Price ss. No other form, size, or price is genuine.
American Hop Bitters Mfg. Co., Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
To be obtained at all Chemists and Druggists,
MONTEFIORE, STUART, ft CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
f'k P. GREGORY &GO.,
TOBACCO MANUFACTURERS,
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.SX,
have appointed ns their
SOLE AGENTS
for the Sale of their TOBACCOS in Australasia.
Wo invite particular attention to onr
NEW IMPORTATIONS, JUST ARRIVED,
of
SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOBACCOS,
hearias- onr Brands,
“ ORIENT " and “ SOUTHERN CROSS."
These TOBACCOS are made to onr own order, selected
from the
CHOICEST VIRGINIA LEAP,
and for delicacy of flavour are unequalled by any
Tobaccos ever imported into these Colonies.
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET.
SYDNEY.
gENJAMIN BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Firs
Irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantles,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEP-ORE, STUART & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,.
Eight hours for work, eight for recreation, and
eight for rest. And a very proper arrangement, too, if
one only works with a will, and heartily. “A 1 work
and no play make Jack a dull boy " Fiery st umlauts,
doctored deco dions, and cheap adulteralious often
make Jack and Jill, too, yery dull indeed. Pure, whole,
some, fragrant tea —‘‘the cup that cheers but not in-
ebriates is no v thanks to the Calcutta Tea Ass »cia-
tion, 28 Chariotte-plaoe, within reach of everyone
Made by our own countrymen. Purer, stronger,
better, and relatively cheaper than the usual run of
China teas, it deserves the patronage of all tea drinkers.
Customers are calling every day, giving unsolicited
testimony to its merits. Once used, you will never
again revert te “ Jack the Painter." or Chinese “ Posts
and Kails." Good, my beware of jealousy.
Ask your grocer for the C.T.A. Pure Indian Tea.—Apy.
clause of the new Education Act, have very naturally
resulted in a large increase in the attendance of
cbolars, which means a proportionate increase of
abour and responsibility for the teachers. This
was too good an opportunity for a joke to be allowed to
pass ; so, notwithstanding a promise mode daring the
consideration of the Bill that the teachers should not
suffer by its operation, the scale of salaries was face-
tiously lowered. In coarse of time, the joke took a
little effect; and several very funny complaints, from
ridiculous men grumbling about losing an absurd £lOO
a year or so, came in. These men were solemnly repri-
manded, and warned on no account to do it again.
But the joke had got wind, and some further notice
had to be taken of it. Accordingly, the discontented
parties were asked to send in a claim for compensation
of the amount of their loss. When the claims were
received, another bright idea struck the Department,
which was to allow only two-thirds of the amount.
The aim of this jest was a noble one, because it gave
them a chance to snub the applicants when they came
with foolish enquiries about the balance. It is so
laughable to be able to send a man off with an insec-
tiferous Amalekite in his ear when he plagues you
about his absurd wife and family. Besides which, it is
witty, and just like Charles Lamb —excepting that the
positions are reversed. Listen! “ Gentlemen,” says
the unfortunate (but mirth-provoking) teacher, “ you
have greatly increased my work.” “Yes, yes, we
know,” is the hilarious reply. “But we’ve made up
for it by reducing your salary.”
Ichabod!
One of the most amusing and audacious freaks of
j mnialistic eccentricity that has developed itself with,
m our experience is that which transpired recently in
connection with a clerical contemporary in this city.
The Express is a highly favoured journal. It enjoys
the benefit of high ecclesiastical patronage, its columns
are steamed with the very odour of sanctity, and its
leaders themselves, until within the last few days, were
currently believed to be the direct outpouring of no-
thing short of an archiepiscopal pen. But events have
shorn that journal of its gilded charms. Its glories
have departed; it has now become even as one of the
secular and uninspired The trouble is about what is
known as the religious vote, —an uncertain weapon,
opparently as dangerons to its wielders as to those
whom it is supposed to menace The journal in ques-
tion having published some remarks upon the vote of
its party, its utterances were taken up and severely
criticised. F illowing general opinion, the ideas ex.
pressed were presumably traced to the elevated source
we have indicated. And the strictures which ensued
were naturally reflective on the source of inspiration at
i's fountain bead. Now, it is notorious that from its
inception 'he Express has been a politico-religious
organ. Established for a well-known purpose, it
borrowed its individuality and acquired such cir-
culation as it possesses simply from the reputed
fact that that purpose was given expression to in
the leading columns by the head of the Catholic
.pn nnination in New South Wales. Perhaps it
is s u.Cj.y necessary that we should state our
<> »lni >n of rh hi an aim. It is strange, it true,
ihit one so astute as Dr. Vaughan should fail
to s p that the very step taken to secure his end
w.u> be one most calculated to defeat it. Narrowness
of purpose on the part of one religions section of the
voting power of the colony must naturally beget a cor-
responding but opposed contraction on the ether.
B'gotry begets bigotry, and denon. {national exclusive-
ness, of whatever kind, necessarily induces an opposite
sectarian bitterness and hate. The formation af
Soman Catholic voting cliques sets the example to
Orange cliques, and the more powerful of the two feed
and fatten on the want of judgment, of policy, or of
proper patriotic spirit of the other. Thus the vilest of
old-world social abases are propagated in these colonies
anew, and their worst effects are not slow to manifest
themselves. The more powerful clique grasps power
and influence, which are used rather tor purposes of
intolerance and repression than wise and politic legis-
-1 ition. No inoonsid* rable portion of the unsatisfactory
element in our own public life may be traced to this
sour ;.j; and it is certainly no good sign to see a journal
wiiu the imprimatur of his Grace of Sydney lending
itself to the encouragement of such a state of things.
But here a startling paradox assorts itself. Dr.
Vaughan repudiates the alleged responsibility. The
Express, tacitly accepted as the archiepiscopal organ,
dis ' vns its distinguished contributor—bnt it sacrifices
its r.iiion d’etre. With its prestige, it loses also its in*
dhiloality. It wounds itself in a vital part, and
survives that delicate operation. Hov long it will con-
tinue to do so, is a mysoery time must solve. Pilloried
by its own act, and self-expos-d to the sacreilgious
laughter of the profane, its acrobatic change of front,
and dexterous shifting of a responsibility too heavy for
its inexperienced shoulders, may inspire the wonder,
bnt cannot fail to excite the ridicule, of its more
liberal, but unhappily, less plots and high-tonoa con-
temporaries.
Trapping a Scapegoat.
When a blunder is made in parliamentary, as in other
proceedings, it is always convenient to find a “ Scape-
goat” ready t© hand, and if an Opposition member can
be made to do duty as such, so much the better for the
Government, and just an equal amount of " worse” for
the Opposition member. That Mr. Copeland was
m vdo the “Scape-goat” for the blundering of Sir Henry
Parkes last week.no one at all acquainted with par-
liamentary practice can reasonably doubt. The Pre-
mier had moved that the Speaker leave the Chair and
the House resolve itself into Committee of the
Wholo.to consider the amendments ot the Upper House
on the Chinese Bill. This motion was allowed to pass
without explanation or comment. Then when in commit-
tee on a specific motion, “That the committee agree
with t v >e amendment of the Upper House in omitting
Clause 2,” the Premier was allowed to deal not only
with the whole Chinese question, but with the consti-
tution of the Upper House, and to give the committee
the benefit of his views on thr relative advantages of
an eltctivo Chamber over a nominee Chamber, besides
miking sundry allusions as to nominee members
having no sense of responsibility. All of these re-
marks might have been fair subjects for debate had
they been made at the proper time, which would have
been when the motion was made that “the Speaker
leave the Chair." Had they been then made, other
members would have been equally at liberty to follow
suit, and deal with the whole question. This would
have been according to the usual practice, and as the
3’remier is tooold a par iamentary bird not to know this,
we can only conclude that his object was to
h« ve a shot at the opponents of the Bill in both Cham-
be s by availing himself of the latitude usually allowed to
gentlemen in his position, and then, by falling back on
the ordinary rules of debate in committee, burke dis-
cussion by compelling Opposition members to confine
their remarks to the bare clause as submitted. The
advantage of this mode of conducting debates was
immediately apparent when Mr. Copeland followed
in the wake of two or three other members, who had
each been allowed by the Chairman to pursue the bad
example of the Premier, and deal with subjects totally
foreign to the Bill. But as soon as the " Scape-goat"
appeared on the scene, in the person of the member for
New England, he was immediately “roped” by the
Chairman of Committees, and brought up with a round
turn. Although he was confining his remarks to the Bill,
he was no doubt transgressing the strict rule of debate
—as at the time he was called to order he was referring
to the 4th clause, whereas the motion before committee
dealt only with the 2nd clause. We don’t blame Mr.
Cameron for what he did, but we do think he was clearly
to blame for what he did not. He was quite right in calling
Mr. Copeland to order, but he was evidently wrong in
allowing the previous speakers to transgress much more
than Mr Copeland had done. The result of this laxity
of procedure was evident when, after peace was restored
and the “ Scapegoat ” sacrificed, it was pointed out by
Mr. S. C. Brown that the only course then open was to
allow other members the same latitude as the Premier,
and to deal with the whole question. This was conceded
by the Chairman, notwithstanding that such a course
was a decided infringement upon the rules of debate
when in committee. Mr. Copeland consequently gained
his point, and he and other members ware alike subse-
quently allowed much greater scope than for exercising
which the former gentleman had been caked to order
for.
The Art Society’s Exhibition.
The second annual exhibition of the Art Society of
New South Wales opened in the Society’s room, at the
Garden Palace, on Monday last. Of course, there was
some talk by way of preliminary, bnt when the talk was
ended there were some pictures also. A good many
pictures, no great increase in point of number from
last year’s show, but in point of merit a decided
upward move. Meaningless daubs and delirious at-
tempts at the super aesthetic are replaced by a good
many results of honest effort that do their authors
credit, and seem likely to bring them gain—honest, ac-
ceptable, and well-won gain. To deal with the pictures
individually and critically we are not yet prepared.
Space is precious, and time will not stretch. A few
representative works may bo noticed ; all those left
out must content themselves this week with cursing us
for shallow pated fools, or with abusing those wretched
daubers whose canvas seems to us to be prettily
spoiled. We do not pretend to say which is absolutely
the best picture in the Gallery. Mr. Pignenit’s work
is, perhaps, the nearest approach to artistic perfection.
His “ Glimpse of the Huon forest, Tasmania,” and
“Cook’s River, Botany Bay,” are both pictures that
may, with truth, be termed good. There is light and
shadow, and air and water, and richness of colour, with
no unnecessary glare about them. “ Govett’s Leap”
and “Katoomba Valley.” by Mr. C. E. Hern, are also
most excellent pictures—the latter, a little murky on
the sky, perhaps, but very grand in portraiture of the
mountain’s face and the misty vale below. Mr. Hoyt’s
pictures are, the most generally pleasing of
the wcole collection, as is evidenced by the fact that
they are already all sold. Accurate delineation, and
warmth and depth ot colour, are leading characterists
of Mr. Hoyt’s pictures. His mountains are like moun-
tains in colour and form, and the sun shines upon their
crowns, and the shadows sleep npon their sides. Nature
is a little better than Mr. Hoyt, perhaps, in
the matter of long perspective, as in the diffusion
of atmosphere and the lighting up of seas; bnt he is
following close, and will some day get alongside,
and keep there. Mr. Hoyt’s works are, like Kendall’s
poems and Gordon’s ballads, easy to read, and satis-
fying when read. There has been no “ Race for Life”
this year, and consequently Mr. Collingridge has not
won a great prize by vigorous treatment and startling
effect. “Red, White, and Blue” is not a pretty pic-
ture. Of the French school, they say ; if so, we do not
like that French school. The black and white draw-
ings are the best. Looking at them, we cannot un-
derstand why Sydney has Collingridge, and yet no
decent illustrated paper or magazine. Mr. Imerley
has a good many pictures of Japan. We do not care
much for Japan. Puseyama seems the only bit of it
worth knowing. Louis Prank makes light upon the
walls where he hangs his oils—a little too much light,
perhaps. Mr. Frank has not gone beyond his last
year’s work. Still a suspicion of isinglass, and a hint
that Dame Nature uses Judson’s dyes. Mr. Feilding
is the most ambitious of Sydney oil-paiaters. His
view, “ George’s River,” is about eight feet by six. A
frightful mass of irridescence and varnish: it will
probably grow precious through effluxion of time. Mr.
Feilding’s picture will probably become an heir-loom
in his family. However, such apparently is not Mr.
Feildings present intention, he offers to sell it —
for £126. We sincerely hope he may sell it for
£126. He may have wasted a hundred and
twenty-six pounds of paint over it, but people do
sot buy pictures by the pound. The last look at that
picture blurred our vision and blunted our perception,
so that we had scarcely grace to look lovingly upon
Miss Pignenit’s really beautiful flowers. In another
issue we may begin a big article, and distribute oleo.
and brimstone in equal quantities. In the meantime,
we congratulate the young live society upon past
efforts, and wish them all success, and perhaps a little
more progress in the future.
The Reformation of Criminals.
In another part of this issue we publish the first of
a series of articles, bearing directly on the vital subject
of the reformatory treatment of criminals. The writer
of the series is an elderly man, who has himself under-
gone the discipline he deals with, and is therefore
conversant with his subject. The tone of the articles
will sufficiently explain why we decided to give pub-
licity to them. It seldom occurs that the subject
dealt with can be treated from the prisoner’s stand-
point. Yet, for its proper comprehension, it is clearly
desirable that it should be viewed from every side-
We publish these articles with the hope that the dis-
closures made may result in substantial good. It is no
new thing to assert that the existing system of dealing
with offenders fails to effect what should be the
aim of all punishment—the elevation of the pri-
soner, and his restoration to the paths of recti
tnde. But the public have seldom had such an
opportunity of learning in what manner, and to
what extent, the gaol system fails to attain
these objects, as is afforded by the descriptions and re-
flections of the writer of the articles we refer them to.
The latest occasion upon which the voice of an edu-
cated prisoner has been conveyed to the public by
the medium of the press was, we believe, when the
Melbourne Argus published "Days of Crime and
Years of Suffering ” from the pen of Sussex, shortly
after the release of that offender from Pentridge.
It is impossible for ns to verify details. The reader
must therefore peruse throughout with such mental
reservation as may appear to each appropriate under
the circumstances An ex-prisoner can scarcely be
expected to be without some resentments, acquired
during his period of incarceration; and in order to
preserve the characteristics which render serviceable
such reflections and comments as those emanating from
one of this class, occasional references may be permitted
to appear, which require to he read with the know-
ledge that it is an ex-; risoner who makes them We
do not desire that the conclusions or observations
should be accepted in the same sense as though they
were the productions of an ordinary journalist. What
we seek is that they should be ta en pro tanto and
turned to the best use. There is certainly no
other way in which information of this nature can be
obtained. Ventilation of what has been, necessarily, a
closed department, can scarcely result in aught but
good.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Premier of N.Z. has prone to the West
Coast to see about the Maori trouble, and has—come
1 ack again.
The King and Queen of Spain are saving as
much as they can from their “ screw,” and investing
abroad, so that when the revolution comes they may
have some plunder to live on.
A Victorian M.L.A. has tabled a notice of
motion to restrict by local option the proposed com-
palsory opening of all closed roads throughout the
colony. If adopted, the motion will be a terrible blow
to the squatters.
Absolute silence and secresy were preserved
by the members of the Chicago Fenian Convention, and
the accounts of their proceedings which appeared in
Chicago journals and were cabled to England were
merely suppositions. At the same time the employ,
ment of explosives was considered, and no secret was
made of the purpose of the movement to organize in
America a system of actively aggressive operations
against England.
The land and property tax proposed by ths S. A.
Government will amount to 6d. in the £ of annual
income on land and the same amount on annual profits
on other description of property which is worth more
than £3O per annum. This will enable the Government
to abolish duties on tea, coffee, chocolate and cocoa,
rice, oornsacks and woolpacks. The land tax is esti-
mated to yield £55,000, and the property tax £53,000.
An amendment was suggested adding agricultural
implements to the price list and exempting properties
up to the annual value of £3OO.
After pointing out that whereas in 1871 the
Colonies took only 33 per cent, of the exports of Great
Britain, in 1880, they took 33 per cent. Vanity Fair, a
Conservative organ, suggests that “ A very small com-
mon duty on foreign corn, cotton, wool, wood, sugar,
and tea would give the command of our English market
to the Colonial producers of these articles ; a very
small common duty on foreign manufactures would
give the command of the Colonial market to English
manufacturers.” In other words, Free-trade within the
Empire.—Protection, undiluted Protection, against all
foreigners. There is no doubt that the day of abso-
lute Free-trade is passing away.
An Imaginary Soliloquy.— “ Mr. Speaker, I rise
to move that the words of the honorable member for
New England in saying ‘ the decision of the Chairman
is very unfair’ are disorderly, unparliamentary, and
ought to be withdrawn. It is true, Mr. Speaker, that
only a ;few minutes ago I used the expression to
Mr. Fitzpatrick that he was “ guilty of unmitigated
insolence ” ; but then, you see, Mr. Speaker, I am the
Premier, and Mr. Fitzpatrick is—ah, well —only quasi-
leader of the Opposition, and the Opposition is so very
weak on the Heathen Chinee question that I can
afford to snub them all. It is also quite true, Mr.
Speaker, that I did hear Mr. M’Elhone enunciating
his poli-y of * potting' the squatters, and I was not. as
was 'generally supposed, absent through illness. Oh,
yes I I heard him; but I didn’t think those words were
in any way disorderly, or unparliamentary, or ought to
have been taken down. Indeed, when appealed to in the
Ministers’ room, a few minutes afterwards, by Mr. Fitz-
patrick, to take some action, I quietly replied that * I
didn’t see that I was called upon to do anything in the
matter.’ You see, Mr. Speaker, it was only intro-
ducing another system of free selection. Of course,
the squatters might object to be * potted,’ either before
or after survey, but then, Sir, the squatters have not so
many votes as the free-seiectors, and that makes all the
difference.”
In Memorian—“Sailor Malone."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[Max-one was first mate of the Qlenelg, on a voyage
from Port Adelaide to Tasmania. A few words will tell
how he met his end. “ The ketch Strathmore was
stranded at Circular Head- and at night, in dirty
weather, appeared to be burning blue-lights as signals
for help. Malone applied to the captain of the Glenelg
for permission to man a boat and go to her assistance,
but was refused, as the act was manifestly so dangerous.
Malone, however, pressed hard, saying • I should do
unto others what I should like them to do for me.’
The boat was capsized, and the four volunteers were
drowned. The other three were single, but Malone
leaves a wife and family destitute."]—Telegram to Daily
Paper.
No man can escape from the sure hand of Fate—
King Death lays the strongest low:
We must all of us pass through the “ transition” gate.
Then why not like brave men go P
To shrink at the summons is nseless and vain—
All must His omnipotence own:
A coward dies—over and over again,
A hero—like Sailor Malone.
What though the storm raged through the darkest of
nights.
And the elements struggled in war 1
Malone only saw the distress signal-lights—
Only thought of the ketch on the shore:
He’heard the wild waters, their dangers he knew.
And the warning of death in their tone;
But “ do unto others as you'd have them do ”
Was religion with Sailor Malone.
So he perished that night. But, whatever he lacked
In knowledge of doctrine, or creed.
We know that he died i-. the Christliest act
That ever served man in his need.
Yes. he died like a hero; and if faults he had.
Such a death for them all should atone :
God will write down the good, and He’ll blot out the
bad,
When he settles with Sailor Malone.
The preacher will stand in his pulpit on high,
And tell how the good God will grieve.
If each wretched sinner, when called on to die,
Does not in some doctrine believe.
Well, even dry creeds may be good in their way
(Though for deeds was the Saviour best known),
But, how many parsons, if called on to-day.
Would act like the Sailor Malone ?
There are kings who have slaughtered their thousands
in strife,
Or inherited greatness by birth ;
But the man who saves one, yes, just one single life,
Is the kingiiest man upon earth.
When a great soldier dies, the world honours his
name.
And carves his praise deeply in stone:
But saviours—not slayers—earn noblest of fame :
Such a one was the Sailor Malone.
Yes, he perished that night; short shrift was his lot.
Overwhelmed in the pitiless surge;
And the white rolling wave-crests alone mark the
spot
Where the hurricanes thunder his dirge.
No marble magnificent covers his grave.
Where the waters unceasingly moan :
But God understands how unselfishly brave.
Was the last act of Sailor Malone.
Sydney, Oct. 3,1881.
ARTHUR FRY.


A fashionable lady with a long sealskin cloak is
sure to snub a lady wearing a short one, and the only
way the latter can get even is to show her small feet.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
Prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
“Any.
'lhe Bank of Victoria robbery plot thickens,
fnd the name of an officer of that institution, which
ls whispered on ’Change, is in the bands of the police
a« th„ strongly inspected culprit. Several of the
Missing notes are £lOO-notes of the Bank of Austral-
a la, tne numbers of which are known, and they are
forming a portion of the clue which the detectives are
aangume of being able to trace to a successful issue.
Sarah Bernhardt said, in London, that she was
“ good enough to eat." King Kalakua, of the Cannibal
Islands, informed her that he didn’t consider her a
Salle d manger.
The Medical profession order Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence because it contains more nutritious and flesh-
forming elements than any other beveridge, and is
preferable to be very thick starchy cocoa ordinarily
sold. When yon ask for Cadbury's Cocoa Essence, be
sure that yon get it, as storekeepers often push imi-
tations for the sake of extra profit.—Any.
LATE THEATRICAL.
We are glad to hear by telegraph from Brisbane,
that Mr. Frank Cates has scored a great success in
that city in the star part of Matthias, in Leopold
Lewis’s adaptatio ’ of Erckmaan-Chatrian’s “Juif
Polonais,” which he calls “The Bells.” This was the
piece in which Mr. Irving first made a hit. We hope
to see Frank in the piece in Sydney shortly. He has
exactly the physique for the part.
** * *
The second of Mr. Walter Reynolds’ pieces, to
be produced at the Queen’s Theatre, on Saturday
evening, is entitled, 44 Quid Erin.” Walter considers it
superior in go to 44 Tried and True,” and the actors all
seem well satisfied with the amount of “fat ” distri-
buted amongst them. Actors always lean towards a
fat part.
** * *
Contrary to expectation, the management of the
Theatre Royal has resolved upon running 44 Tambour-
Major” during their last week’s stay in Sydney. This
will be good news for the public generally, for who
will not be glad to once more welcome the dear old
shortsighted Duke, the volatile Bambini, that giddy
Stella, and Griolet who has broken many hearts ?
The Drum-Major, too, and Le Capitaine Robert will
both have such a warm reception—and the (Officers 1
Ready with your bouquets, gentlemen of the narrow
foreheads and wide binoculars.
** * *
At Hodge’s. —Crushed tragedian (who has just
lapped down the longest eleever allowed by Act of Par-
liament, to other members of the 44 perfesh,” with
Vbom he is 44 disputin’ ” a point, and talking 44 shop”
""generally): 44 1 ought to know how he spoke the lines.
The last time he ever played Henry V. in Australia I
was one of the company.” “So you were,” said a little
stage carpenter, who had been sucking very hard at a
pipe during the argument, and saying nothing; “so
you were. I remember seeing you upon the stage, and
I think blue was the colour of your banner.”- Co Ift ise
of the great errr-ushed.
** * *
D’Arcy Read’s “ 6host”'still appears nightly at
the Victoria Hall, and now that Beauty has taken our
advice and fuller’s-earthed her arms, she is quite a
picture. Before D’Arcy casts his new piece, however,
we recommend him to take the good old gentleman
away to a primeval forest and slaughter him. All
round, the show is a funny one. Go and see it.
** * *
The Wallsend amateurs play “ The Fire
Raiser,” and 44 Slasher and Crasher.” on the 18th
The increase of the rate of mortality in Maitland is
said to be in a great measure due to the existence there
of so many amateur minstrels. 44 Molly Darling” and
44 Grandfather’s Clock,” in some hands, are more
dangerous than six-shooters in others J. Smith, bil
poster, of Brisbane, writes to say that a certain distin-
guished instrumentalist didn’t square up his account.
J. Smith ought to know (and probably does know by
this time) that the instrumentalist in question had
nothing whatever to do with it.
** * *
Mr. Frank Hewitt writes to say that he and the
Ogdens left Batavia for Singapore on September 2nd.
44 Our net proceeds for the thirteen weeks,” he says,
” are £5OOO, being the greatest business ever done in
Java by theatricals. We have had a very pleasant
time, and visited the Governor twice, also King Salon’s
ruins—Boo years old Wilson, the circus man, has
made a clear profit of £7500 in the city of Batavia alone.
He has gone to Samarang, another city in Java, and
opens on September 3rd Companies visiting Java
must have plenty of comic business. Eight of the
Georgia Minstrels visiting this country could clear
£lO,OOO in eight months. Very tew speak English. Our
music has been a great attraction for ns. Our admis-
sion is 10s., 65., and 4s. gallery.” If seven niggers can
be got together, and an eighth is wanted, hanged if we
don’t black up, and give some of the show ourselves.
** * *
It will be a source of satisfaction to the Sydney
public to learn that Mr. W. J. Wilson, the lessee of the
pretty little Opera House, has concluded arrangements
with the Montague-Turner Company for their re-
appearance at his theatre on Monday, Oct. 17, when
they will commence a farewell engagement of one week
only. The acoustic properties of the theatre being
perfect, the voices of those splendid artists, Mr. and
Mrs. Turner, will be heard to full advantag-3. We will
give a list of the operas to be produced in our next;
and we sincerely trust that one week will not be all that
this, the best operatic combination that has appeared
in Sydney, will vouchsafe us prior to their flit to other
climes. For the information of our readers, we may
inform them that the box plan is now at Mr. A. Huen-
erbein’s, in George-street, opposite the Royal Hotel.
** * *
We regret to hear that Miss Annie Mayor has
been severely indisposed in Brisbane, but our sadness is
tempered with joy when we learn that she has made a
great success in Pinero’s “Money Spinner,” in
the part of Millicent. The term “Money-Spinner” is
derived from her extraordinary good-fortune at gaming,
and the character is one which is described as bein' as
admirably drawn as it is wonderfully acted. We hear
also that Mr. Frank Cates has made a great success in
44 The Bells,” and also that he intends appearing in
“Hamlet” before leaving Brisbane. Frank’s 44 ben.,”
at the Masonic, is referred to elsewhere.
** * *
Mr. Dewhurst took his departure on Tuesday
for Brisbane, by steamer, and on the wharf there was
quite a demonstration. The Queen’s company had
turned out in great force and veivet collars, and wept,
metaphorically, in each others’ arms. Mr. Dewhurst
is so genial a gentleman, in his private and professional
capacity alike, that he has made friends of all who
have come into personal contact with him.
** * *
Zulu Thompson is, according to latest dates,
doing splendidly in Western Austr -lia. He has sent us
a paper called the Geraldton Observer, which is
cram full of the artful William’s wheezes. We expect
he’ll be starting a paper of his own soon.
Mr. H. J. Whittington, South’s agent, speaks
highly of the Hall at Cootamundra. This is sufficient
to at onee stamp that place of amusement as being in
the last degree palatial. We are asked by a correspon-
dent to thus drag the Cootamundra Hall into notice.
We don’t know why; but we do it. Wonderfully good-
natured, are we not ?
The Gaiety Theatre is being splendidly re-decor-
ated. The seats and the backs of the chairs are now of
satin. People will therefore hi able to 44 pitch ” with
Pride to their friends of the satin of the chair which
hay sat in.
Miss Josephine Deakin, whom, gentle readers,
you all know and adore, has sent ns a lovely-little
letter (since framed) in which she states that the com-
pany are doing immense business in Adelaide, and that
ti ey will return to Sydney in three weeks’ time. We
& re glad to receive notice of this in good season to be
be able to organise for the fair Josephine a reception
by the Mayor, strewing of flowers, and other marks of
welcome which are usually accorded to distinguished
Persons. A serenade will, of course, on her arrival, be
the order of the night, and it will not require very
much pressing to induce us to contribute the trombone
ob'igato ourselves.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke’s proposed .£5O prize for
best factory-made butter is withdrawn. Competition
found impracticable The Queensland Legisla-
tive Council has passed a Bill for amalgamat-
ing the two branches of the legal profession
A decree nisi has been granted in the divercs
case Bedford v. Bedford and Ryan, of Charters Towers.
Efforts are being made to raise the wrecked steamer
Euro The N.Z. Government have agreed to give
facilities to Joubert and Twopeny for holding an
Exhibition The S.A. Government will pay 6d. per
dozen for sparrows’ heads, and 2s. 6d. per 100 for eggs.
Yet 44 there shall not a sparrow fall to the ground ” &o.
New Parliament Houses are to be erected in Ade-
laide, What we want is a new Parliament A |reef,
three feet wide, yielding 15 to 20 oz. per ton, discovered
near Omeo, Gippsland The Italian warship Europa
has been got off the rocks at Thursday Island, appa-
rently uninjured Allotment in Collins-street, Melb ,
56 ft. frontage by 150 ft., has been sold for £22,020
A pensioner, named Robert Hay, eighty-two years of
age, who was at the battle of Waterloo, has died at
Rooky Flat, Talbot Two cross-bred sheep weighing
respectively 220 and 2281 b, were shown the other day
at Hamilton, Victoria A. hoary-headed old fellow,
eighty years of age, was lodged in the Ballarat lock-up
the other day on a charge of drunkenness. His excuse
was that 44 he desired to enjoy life as well as the young
men.” A letter received in Adelaide slates that
Kate Kelly was killed in Victoria a short time ago
while mounting a restive norse A forty-foot black
whale has been cruis ; ng about Hobson’s Bay for some
time. It is the third that has been known to enter the
port The Newcastle life-boat crew, the other day,
rescued the schooner Alert from her most perilous
position in the bight. In fact, had it not been for
them, the schooner must have been lost —probably
with all hands The total defalcations of Agg, em-
bezzling accountant of the Victorian Lands Depart-
ment, are £2124 A crab weighing 171 b, and having
claws somewhat like a pair of bullock’s horns, has been
caught at Portland, Victoria. It is computed that it
cannot be far short of 100 years old Amy Lewis,
otherwise Mitchell, of 121 Exhibition-street, Mel-
bourne (the girl whom Henry Colley attempted to mur-
der), has filed her schedule, in consequence of illness
and losses in business; liabilities, £330 2s 3d; assets,
£lO. Not a bad experience for this young woman —
prostitution, divorce, to be nearly murdered, and in-
solvency In connection with the fact that John
Hurley has successfully floated in London a company
te work the Burrum coal-field, it may be mentioned
that Jimmy, one of the Kings of the Burrum, is just
dead Sheep are in very low condition on the Upper
Bogan, and it is said there will not be fifty lambs to a
thousand ewes It is niw denied that the shipment
of meat per Cuzco did not pay Victorian Govern-
ment offer to provide boring apparatus to all local
bodies which will guarantee a small per centage on
working expenses Half the skin was scalded off a
fireman at Lyons’ Sawmills, Lyonsville, Vic., by the
bursting of a defective boiler. Recovery hopeless
N early£soo sent fromAnstralia to the aid of the Shetland
Islanders, who suffered from late gales and loss of boats...
A monthly nurse has been communicating puerperal
fever from patient to patient in Brisbane. Seven have
died Ostriches can be landed in Australia from the
Cape for £2OO per pair Complaints are made that the
police are license-hunting diggers in Victoria Mel-
bourne larrikins tried to enter a shop, and to stick up a
’bus full of passengers. Vehicle and passengers alike
injured Capt. South, of the Keilawarra, states that
the boat of the Prince Victor was not seen A man
named R. S. G. M'Donald gave one Silberberg a cheque
for £372 in discharge of a gambling debt. Silberberg
passed the cheque on to one Warmisham, who sued
M'Donald on its dishonour. The case has just been
decided in the Supreme Court, Rockhampton, by the
jury returning a verdict for defendant on the gionnd
that he had received no consideration for the cheque.
A coffin found in the bush at Redwood was
ascertained to have contained the body of a Chinaman,
whose remains had been disinterred for exportation to
the Flowery Land Mr. Duncan Hudson, an old
resident of Mannafields, Goulburn, has suicided.
Rope.
« # *
A new piece of music, which is entitled “ The
English Hares’ March,” on the front page of which are
represented a number of hares in British uniform
scampering away from a gigantic Boer who is placidly
smoking a pipe, has been published in Capetown. The
piece is very popular and is having an immense sale
At a late banquet at London Mansion House, the Press
not having been toasted in due course, the reporters,
after publishing the chief toasts of the evening, had a
deserving revenge next morning by saying 44 several
other toasts were responded to by the persons whose
names were placed opposite to the list of unimportant
toasts.”
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
5000 Tunisians defeated by the French after a
hard fight Moscow Bazaar destroyed by fire. Loss,
two million roubles Trouble over evictions at Mul-
lingar. The constabulary made 60 prisoners Father
Sheehy, just liberated after imprisonment for sympa-
thising with the Land League, enthusiastically received
by his parishsoners The Irish Bishops have declared
the authors of the Land Act entitled to the gratitude of
the tenants, and warned the people against acts ef
violence and intimidation Two men overheard, at
Washington, plotting to murder President Arthur
Secret Society formed at St. Petersburg to destroy the
Nihilist organization French again had a small
licking from the Tunisians Barrel of powder placed
against an Irish landlord’s door and fired. Premises
wrecked. No one hurt Sir Stafford Northcote says
vigorous measures are necessary to prevent the Land
League from nullifying the Act and destroying its use
fulness Said that the Pope means to leave Rome
and lire at Vienna The Arab patriots have thrashed
the forces of that French tool, the Bey of Tunis; have
wrecked a railway line, and ravaged the district. Some
British subjects are said to have perished The
attempt to break the Liverpool brokers’ ring by stop-
ping the Lancashire mills has failed Meeting at
Warsaw of the Emperors of Russia and Austria is pro-
jected Sittings of a Social Conference commenced in
the Orisons, Switzerland.
Mr. Timothy Curley's Building.
Among the many improvements in the way of archi-
tecture in this city is that of Timothy Curley’s new
premises, 787 George-street south. As may be seen
from the engraving, the building is not only a very
commodious one, but in taste and design, besides being
an ornament to this part of the city, reflects some
credit on the architect (Mr. J. Reuss, junr.) as well as
the proprietor. Nothing has been spared by this enter-
prising gentleman to render it in every way suitable to
carry on an extensive wholesale and retail trade, the
dimensions of the ground and first floors being 100 ft.
by 30ft.; at the rear and second floor are ten large
rooms, set apart for the employes, which can be ap-
proached without interfering in any way with the
business arrangements. The interior fittings throughout
are of the very best description, the counters, shelves,
&c, being all of polished cedar; also, there are
eight plate-glass mirrors in handsome frames for the
convenience of customers to view themselves in, the
gas-fittings also are quite in keeping with the former
to render the establishment complete in every respect
as a first-class business. Mr. T. Curley,
arrived in this colony in 1863, and started in
business in 1866 on a small scale as a clothier and out-
fitter, on the spot where the building (which forms
the subject of our engraving) now stands. During
this short period of time, not only has he built up a
business of over £25,000 a-year, but is the fortunate
owner of this and sixty other valuable properties, in
addition to which, besides having visited America,
France, and Italy, he has been no less than on three oc-
casions to the mother country. During his travels
many ideas have been picked up by him —in this, no
doubt (combined with indomitable perseverance and
straightforward dealings) is to be found the secret of
bis success.
BRIEF MENTION.
There is no good drinking man in the Victorian
Assembly. However, it is quite possible to hire one.
The Czar has announced that" he will meet the
Emperor of Austria at Warsaw The meeting will,
therefore, no doubt take place at Prague.
Two clergymen meet in dress-circle at the
Theatre Royal during entr'acte. Both together “ I
was told my son was up here, and I have come to fetch
him out.”
Several wood blocks have lately been taken up
from the King-street roadway. And simultaneously
those portraits have been appearing in the Evening
News. This may be merely a coincidence.
The Mongolian has a bad time in Northern
Queensland. It is said that not even a trooper s gin
will speak to him. So he has to content himself with
the smiles of our Saxon sisters. Poor Johu !
A week ago, Fergy, of the Cumberland Times,
announced that he had a whipsnake on view at the
office. On that day the office boy announced four
gentlemen to see the editor. This speaks well for
Natural History.
How to vaccinate “ from the calf.” Get a calf,
raise on it by a “ Spanish fly ” several small blisters,
and call them cowpock vesicles. Fetch your patients
round, vaccinate them with human lymph and —ahem
—charge them double rates.
A black gin, who was arrested up Narandera
way, complains about being jumped upon by a police-
man. But, in addition to this indignity, she was next
morning “ sat upon” by the Magistrate. Yet she still
lives, and is, report has it, a Queen in her own country.
Her realm is called Gulgongaugerong.
The great sensation at the Parramatta Wes-
leyan Church, last Sunday week, was a swal'ow. The
audience for once were kept awake for the first quarter
of an hour watching the flights of the pretty bird. The
clergyman was wroth. He couldn’t swallow the
swallow, and the congregation couldn’t swallow the
sermon. Let ns pray.
A social earthquake at Bullanyandearong. The
teacher of the local school 44 went out”—perhaps after
his girl,”—and daring his absence a rude boy, who has
wisdom beyond his sixteen years, put his arm around
the neck of the pretty pupil-teacher left in charge and
kissed her Worst of all, an eavesdropping local
preacher who had sneaked round to theschoo'.saw them
at it. And now the whole community is at logger,
heads.
The Mungindi correspondent of the Maitland
Mercury is a man who should one day be famous. In
one of his (now immortal) letter he sars: —“I have to
acknowledge another omission. I left out the name of
Mr. J. E. Turner from the list of some of the prominent
residents of Mungindi.” Wo sincerely congratulate
the scribe upon the editor printing this little bit. He
won’t be troubled about that little matter of two cords
of firewood.
Says Mr. Thadens O’Kane, in the Charters
Towers Northern Miner; —‘‘Letters intended for
publication in the Northern Miner should not be de-
posited on the verandah. They are exposed there to a
good many risks besides those of the wind and
weather.” After this, for innate delicacy of expression,
we must give the palm to Thadeus, We’d have to
think for months before we could call Sydney citizens
thieves, and yet so ingeniously escape a libel.
A gentleman named Michael Mullane, residing
ir Townsville, recently bad the misfortune to kill Mrs.
M. by striking her over the head with a crowbar. Mick
had been " had up ” on several previous occasions for
assaulting his better-half with the same delicate per-
suader, but she had invariably declined to prosecute,
stating that “she was used to it.” A woman like this
would, in the course of a quarter of a century or so,
“get used” to the verdicts of Sydney juries in libel
oases. We are sorry she is dead. And if Michael gets
fined 40s, we won’t pay it.
An esteemed correspondent, residing somewhere
in the neighbourhood of College-street, asks us where
“ Nimitybelle" is? We refer him to other weekly
journals. We have no space in which te answer
mundane questions in this journal. Alf. will not only
tell him in a breath the exact topography of the village
he desires to be informed about, but will instruct him
how to compose baking-powder, the newest manner in
which to plant cabbages, and how to make a clock.
The subscription is—we forget. Anyhow, ask Davies.
[P.S. —We don’t know where Nimitybelle is.]
A lodger in William-street was awakened at
about 3 a.m. on a wet night last week by the howling of
a dog in the verandah. Without waiting to put on even
a pairof—well, say knickerbockers —he ran down stairs,
opened the front door, and going out, kicked the dog
away. Just then a gust of wind came, caught the door,
and banged it to. Shivering with cold, he rang the
bell violently. After a lapse of about 10 minutes, dur-
ing which time he was vainly endeavouring to pull a
42-inch nightgown down low enough to keep his feet
warm, the lady asked—“ Who’s theie!" “ Me, Mrs.
Jones,” said the lodger, his teeth chattering with cold.
“ How dare you come home at this hour, and in such a
disgraceful condition ?’’ said the landlady severely.
“ You don’t enter my place any more. Send for your
things to-morrow, and pay your bill. This is a respect-
able house.” And she flounced away to the upper
regions.
We don’t like to go back upon brother press-
men, especially when they are not exactly Rothschilds,
but still we cannot, in justice to the worthy citizens
whose names are involved, allow this kind of thing to
be done with impunity. In the special advertisement
column of our esteemed contemporary, the D.T., in its
issue of the 25th tilt., we are grieved to see the follow,
ing notice: —
“We, the undersigned, have! THIS DAY en-
tered into PARTNERSHIP as Imposters
end Warehousemen, under the style or firm
Of JOHN TAIT, Jun., and CO.
John Tait, Jun.
Predk. Milstead.
(by his Attorney John Tait)
Walter R. Nickless.
Sydney, August 1,1881.
Witness — Edwin Daintry, Solicitor.”
There it is—in black and white —displayed even ! We
call this carrying journalistic cruelty too far. If the
paper wanted to give Messrs. Tait and Co. a turn, why
not do it in a leader ? That would have harmed them
but little, because life is too short for the ordinary
groveller to daily devour the D.T.’s editorials But to
endeavour to crush a respectable firm in an advertise-
ment, which every cabman peruses, is pitiful. G’est
pir» I e’est inf dm* I
The following! is an extract from a letter
recently sent by the editor of a certain (let ns say
Kamschatkan) journal to a writer residing at Coona-
barabran :—“.Why don’t you get sober ? You wrote
last week that Gambetta was to marry Madame Thiers
with the full consent of Marshal M‘Mahon, who, you
had heard, was about to invest his savings in a station
on the Barcoo. Why, Madame T. is dead, confound
you, and the item about the Marshal wouldn’t even go
down in Sussex-street. And then you say, 4 The
beauties of the Bathurst-street column having at-
tracted the,attention of the French Commissioner to the
Exhibition, Mr. M'Beath will be requested by Le
Minister de Public Works to furnish designs for a
similar work of Art, which is to be erected near the
Colonne Yendome.' This is rather too much; and so is
your on dit to the effect that Madame Gr6vy was seen
at the Fish Market one Sunday morning, haggling for
half-an-hour with a fish-wife over a flathead. You
must tone yourself down, and that speedily, or we shall
have to give your billet to a man at Walgett.”
A jocular J.P., of Grafton, quite cleared out
that town the other day. He brougtit in a magnificent
specimen, which he said had been got out of a claim
worked by three men at Nana Creek. A meeting was
held, at which all the big wigs attended, when the J.P.
said that the prospectors wanted £4OO to start work
with, of which, when the money was raised, he was to
have £5O for his trouble. Eight 50 shares were eagerly
taken up, and during the evening the wildest excite-
ment reigned throughout the district —as much as £5O
for a half share being offered to the lucky scrip-holders.
The next morning the whole thing was discovered to
be a joke, but by the time the guns were loaded, and
the knives sharpened, that magistrate and his specimen
had put a good twenty miles between them and
the Grafton gold-dreamers, feeling runs so high even
to this moment that the local jeweller has taken the
bit of quartz out of his window that had been there
for five years. In Sydney, no one would have believed
a J.P., but if they had, and afterwards found him out,
CITY IMPROVEMENTS.—MR. T. HURLEY’S NEW PREMISES, GEORGE STREET SOUTH.


they would not have thought he “ was only joking."
The Grafton J.P., however, didn’t accept anybody’s
money.
The Pleasant Creek News calls Mr. Francis
Longmore, M.L.A., “a professional patriot.”
Latest edict of Education Department : — Head
teachers must pay for neighbours’ windows broken by
scholars ! What next will Wilkins do P
Jones says: “No wonder chemists make money,
when for sixpenny-worth of nothing in his own bottle
one of them, a day or two since, charged him 7s 6d.
The Molong Express calls for tenders from
persons willing to manufacture armour for the editor of
that journal. It must be tongue proof at two paces.
Deep down in the sunny South no stamps are
sold on the days that the postmaster is “at home."
He is too busy handing round the sherry and biscuits.
Sir ’Enery objects to “ any cuckoo taking
possession of his nest and laying his eggs therein." We
don’t. In fact we’d like to see the masculine bird that
could do it.
It’s all up with the revised version. It has not
been adopted by the Queen or Pastor Allen. Now. any-
thing that is not endorsed by the Queen and Pastor
Allen must be false.
They didn’t bury the D. T. in the customary
pickle jar, at the laying of the foundation-stone of the
Staumore Wesleyan Church. They didn’t want it to be
a case of “ Rum in a bottle.”
“ What do you think of Laycock beating Push
by nine lengths ?" said a [citizen, the other day, to
a sportsman at Punch’s. " I think Laycock has been
home," said the knowing one.
A Tnmut man went out fishing, one day last
week, and the resultjof twelve hours’ sport was that he
caught an iguana and got a bite from a scorpion. Fris-
quette’s his dart now.
At a ball at Maitland, given last Saturday week,
the guests separated at 2 a.m. At about half-pant 2, a
young lady came back in a hurry, stating that she had
forgotten something. It was 21b. steak and 1 lb. suet —
Sunday morning’s breakfast.
Says the Gundagai Times John Peery-
bingle,’ in the Stdwet Mail, has the following:—
Truth is oftentimes stranger than Action . . .” No,
he hasn’t. Governor Bunster does not write in that
journal. He is not a missionary.
The Adelaide Licensed Victuallers’
Gazette, not content with stealing our pars, heaps
insult upon us bv attributing them to " a teetotal con-
temporary." Well, so we are teatotal —compared with
the Adelaide " Spigot-drippings."
There are thirty-five young 'bachelors in and
around Scone who haven’t the courage to ask the girls
to name the day. Of course " any day ’’ would be the
reply in many cases. In others it would take the form
of the silent yet eloquent broomstick.
It is said that, when it became known the!other
day that a Woolloomooloo bonifaoe had refused to serve
a customer with brandy because he was teo young, his
pub. was blocked up the whole day by the crowds of
people (chiefly other publicans) who came to look at
him.
Persons who can’t understand how it comes
that everybody is able to advertise that he has taken a
prize at the Sydnev Exhibition, will understand since
the issue of the final report. There were 93 '5 exhibits,
and 7554 awards. This licks the average of the “ all
prizes and no blanks " shows.
A circular, issued the other day at Goulb urn,
with reference to the management of a jockey club,
bore the legend 11 Una pluribus nnnm.” Now, is this
intended to mean "One goes one," or is the motto,
with its mixture of genders, intended to convey that
colts and fillies have an equal chance of winning the
many events P
After having freely confessed her crime, the girl
Cissy Wormald has been aqnitted, at Rockhampton
(Q,) of drowning two children in a creek. We
recommend Cissy, now she is discharged, to don male
attire, and come over to Sydney. She would be
pretty certain of obtaining immediate employment as a
picnic policeman.
In the Scone hospital, one of the beds is fur-
nished with a patch-work quilt, embellished with
extracts from the old version of the Scriptures. No
patient has ever got up from that bed. A motion is now
on the hoard in favour of extracts from the new
version— that is, from The Bulletin. The local under-
taker is, at present, the only dissentient.
Lefroy’s weakness is “biscuit and cheese and
a long beer." It is a fact that he was tracked 10 miles
by his calling for the same refreshments along the road
he travelled. What a moral can be drawn from this ! A
Ron of Temperance would have got “ clean away."
But then the “ Sons ’’ never murder people. Their
little game is—(to he concluded in our next.)
There is a scribe in Bathurst who signs his pro-
ductions “ Wanderer,” very appropriately, indeed, as
there is every evidence in his writings that he wanders
—in his mind. A recent issue of the Per* Press con-
tains an article entitled, “The Moon Inhabited—By
Wanderer.” How ardently the readers of the Free
Fexis must wish that the statement were true.
We are gradually civilizing our black brothers,
the aborigines. Mr. Fawcett, M.L A., now advocates
that the kings and their subjects be each given a suit
of clothes, as well as a blanket, annually. The last
darkey will probably find himself entitled, at the hands
of a beneficent Government, to unlimited “ tick ” at
Savage’s, free dinners at Compagnoni’s, and a box at
the opera.
Lassetter’a state that they have sold out their
stock of curling tongs—the last gross having gone
within four days. The store is now daily besieged by
broken-hearted damsels in despair about the straight-
ness of their bangs. There are, it would seem, difficulties
attached to the use of a nail and a candle, and curl
papers don’t produce the required crimp. There’s a
girl in Balmain who has singed off her bang so short,
that the only thing she can curl it with now is the
champagne nippers.
This is a Herald < innonce :—“ Public discus-
sion on • The Kingdom of Heaven,’ between Messrs.
Picton and Bayliss, at Temperance Hall, Pitt-street,
Tuesday night, at 8 o’clock. Chairman, J. Roseby,
Esq., M.L.A. Admission, 3d, to cover expenses."
Bayliss 11 What, Bayliss ? We shall next have
“ Johnny" lecturing on the lost tribes, opening the
proceedings with prayer, and taking up a collection in
one of his shirt studs —if this be truly our Bayliss, of
the Bijou. But, admission 3d—and Roseby in the
chair ! No, it can’t be. Bayless would never stoop to
this.
We are informed that at Campbell town,‘on 23rd
May last, some remarkable penalties were inflicted on
a man who is now in gaol under what our correspondent
believes to be a totally illegal sentence. The man was
charged under the Towns Police Act 2, Vie., No. 3,
sec. 8, with being drunk and disorderly, for which he
was fined 20s. or 7 days ; for using obscene language he
was mulct in 20s. or 14 days; and for resisting the
police in the execution of their duty he was sentenced
to six months’ imprisonment, without the option of
a fine. All the charges arose out of the fact that the
man was drunk, and both the language and resistance
complained of occurred whilst he was being arrested.
The Act under which the defendant was charged fixed
the maximum penalty for resisting the nolice at a fine
not exceeding flve pounds; in default of payment dis-
tress, or distress failing, imprisonment not exceed-
three months. J’s.P. acted, it seems, as Judges on the
occasion.
There is in South Australia a paper called the
Poet Adelaide News, which occasionally says some
very trenchant things. En void une; —“ That was a
flagitious method of administration which calmly voted
£l3OO a year as wholly unnecessary allowance for a re-
tiiing Judge, and took sixpence per diem off the
labourers’ wages to make up the amount. But it has
just been paralleled by the conduct of the English
Government. It could find only £lOOO for poor innocent
Galley, after 45 years’ imprisonment and banishment on
a false charge ©f murder (and then on condition that he
shall leave England, lest Bradlaugh should get hold of
him and emphasize the cruelty); but on the very same
Estimates placed £2)00 for the expenses of H.R.H. the
Prince of Wales in going to St. Petersburg to decor-
ate one of the band of—we will not say what—which
infests Europe with the order of the Garter ! about as
useless a procedure to the starving population of
England as Yankee sharpened shoe-pegs representing
oats would be to a starving horse I
Mr. Copeland says he is sorry we did not place
his portrait in Saturday’s issue between that of
Guiteau and another “celebrated" Parliamentarian —
then, for a second time in history, an honest man would
have been crucified between two deep-dyed villains.
Here is an interesting little clip from a Mudgee
journal:—“ John Davis is requested to write to his
brother Harry Davis, Post Office, Dubbo. Any person
knowing his whereabouts will oblige by commnnica
ting." There was a John Davis about these parts once,
but he went away with them Princes."
When the Mastodons were playing here, there
was, one day at rehearsal, a row with the chorus, and a
number of the darkies began to sling the offender, a
white man, out of the theatre. When the tussle was
at its height, Jackson, who was stage-manager, shouted
out, “ Let that chap alone 1 Can’t you see he’s quiet
now! A white man’s as good as a black man if he’ll
only behave himself."
At a recent ball. One distinguished legislator,
leading another distinguished (and courtly) legislator
up to a newly-arrived English belle: “ Allow me to in-
troduce you to my friend, Miss So-and-so ; he wishes to
have the honour of the next waltz. Mr. Robert
Chandos (heres the lady’s eyes beamed) Smith."
She was sorry, but her card was quite full. And yet a
man named William Shakespeare had the nerve to ask,
" What’s in a name ?’’
No less than fifteen of the noblemen and gentle-
men who formed part of the suite of the Prince of
Wales on the occasion of his visit to Russia, are being
sued for debts contracted by them in St. Petersburg.
Most of the debts are for jewellery and miscellaneous
articles deflned by the poet as articles of “ virtue and
bigotry,” such as free-born Englishmen love to pre-
sent to the fair of the cities in which they may have to
pass their time.
According to the “ Revised Edition ” any man
whose ass or ox falls into a pit on the Sabbath day, is
perfectly justified in drawing him out again. A Clarence
River man finding some valuable fowls were getting
drenched a few Sundays ago, nailed up two sheets of
iron to protect them, because, as he impertinently told
the bench, he thought the deed both necessary and
merciful. The sapient beaks, however, knew better,
and the sanctity of the Sabbath was upheld by a fine of
one shilling.
A widow who runs a popular hotel in an inland
township, and a doctor located in the neighbourhood
of the same hostelrie, have quarrelled. The doctor
proposed marriage, whereupon the widow reasoned,
and thusly :—“ He drinks four quarts every day now,
’cept Sunday, when he takes ten. Well, if I marry
him, he’ll drink twenty-four quarts every day, and the
coal bill will not be settled. I think I’ll keep the fuel
account down.” When he called for her answer, she
told him not to be so foolish. But he was not te be
put off. He attempted to kiss her. “ Take that," was
the simple reply of the unprotected female. The
account now stands —One broken jug, 2s[6d; coal, 7s.
Total, 9s 6d.
A Maryborough (Q.) paper has the following :
" Vocative.—We are advised that a great many of the
wants and other * ungenerous ’ aspirations of the
Grammar School pupils have not been attended to.
Voulez vous portez vous. Messieurs le comity ?” This
blast of French reminds us of the Gallic idioms in
the D. T, Surely their linguist couldn’t have
gone North.
“ What funny English the account of this
pigeon-match is written in,” said Paterfamilias, looking
up from his Evening Art Journal the other evening,
and gazing round with a perplexed countenance on his
assembled family. “Is it pigeon-English, Pa ? ” en-
quired Isabel “ No; goose’s English," replied the
head of the family, promptly. Then a chorus went
round the table of “Lor! how funny Pa is;" upon
which Paterfamilias chuckled audibly, and Mamma
took advantage of the diversion to help herself to a
second whisky.
f liThere was a fellow, the other day—one of the
great band of the smitten —who was seated at dinner
at an hotel, next to the French officer that he adored.
“Did you like ‘Olivette?’” she enquired, with a
thirtv-fonr horse-power glance, that sent a tingle right
down to the heels of his patents. “ Oh, I adored
’ Olivette.’ You were splendid in ‘ Olivette,’ quite the
success of the piece." There was a pause then, and
the forty-seven people, who had been taking a deep
interest in their conversation, still listening intently,
the young man unguardedly blurted out, “ Let’s see.
What part did you play ?”
Apropos of nothing long, we are told that Sir
George Long Innes lately entered a Western railway car-
riage, in which was seated a brawny “chiel” from the land
of “burgoo” and Buchanans. This “chiel” held a
small black pipe in his jaw, and the smoke therefrom
filled the car with what Alfred would call “ Egyptian
darkness.” Noticing this, the knight of Nasova, as he
took his seat, somewhat sternly observed, “ I—aw—
positively object to smoking.” "Doye ?” replied
Scotia’s sturdy son, “ then git oot av the car. Wha’
the (Gehenna) cares wha’ you objict to P” But the
guard’s name was not Mnlquin, and so the Scottish
smokist had to vanish.
The Paris (correspondent of the Morning
Mum n-Worry, speaking of a tragedy recently pro-
duced at the Comedie Franfuise. says that “ Mounet-
Tully plays the part of the King with a dramatic effect
that is positively painful.” There is no actor belonging
to the theatre in question or any other Parisian place
of amusement named “ Mouuet-Tully," though pos-
sibly there may be at —say Dubbo—a classic spot, which
seems to be the headquarters of a very large number
of foreign correspondents. The Herald is very often
exact in local matters, but sometimes gets mixed about
European affairs. The boss has only to say the word,
and we will hunt up a Dutchman for him, to edit the
French correspondent’s copy.
The following, which comes from Wagga, is
positively the last joke of the kind we shall ever print:
—“ The difference between the late President Garfield
and the city of Sydney is, that the Bullet-in was the
death of the former, whilst it is the life of the latter."
The Northern Miner begins an article on
the death of Garfield thus :—“ The whole civilized
world will join in a sentiment of profound sympathy
for the death,” etc. Now, what can Thadeus know
about the civilized world; and, besides, what does
" sympathy for the death ” mean, at all ?
While the Church of England Synod was sitting
in Melbourne, last week, some thief entered the hall
and stole most of the clericals’ coats and umbrellas,
'the shovel-hats were not interfered with. It is strange
that such robberies so frequently occur at church
councils. When the Synod last met in Sydney, Mr.
Alexander Stuart’s coat was stolen. Alexander
strongly suspected the clergy.
At the house of a rich widower in the suburbs.
Time, 12 p m. Visitor arrives at front door and knocks.
Butler opens. Visitor: “ Can I see Mr. Thingummy ?’’
But.: “ No, Sir; he’s engaged.” Vis.: “ Then can I
see the governess ?” But.: “ The governess is with
my master. Sir.” And the visitor went away, thinking
all sorts of things, whereas the old gentleman had only
been suggesting some new problem in rule of three for
the children. But this really is a very wicked world.
It is the subject of remark that those moat
interested in getting up flower shows, are gentlemen
living in the suburbs, who have well-stocked gardens.
The subscriptions, however, usually emanate from
those people who havel no gardens at all. Where the
prizes go, is of course obvious. If we could only get a
few of our relations made floral judges, we’d start a
tulip show this summer, and buy a public-house with
the plunder in the autumn.
Eight hundred a year is the sum paid to a
veterinary doctor for professional attendance on a string
of English racers, hut one-tenth of that sum is sufficient
to recompense a skilled “ medicine man ’’ for his at-
tentions to a host of poor-house paupers. By the way,
it was an English farmer who grumbled because his
medical adviser charged him three-and-six for attend-
ing his dying child, whilst the gentleman who cured
his cow only required flve shillings. Those Britishers
seem to “take after " us Australians.
An enterprising man had a suite of rooms let to
the Department of Lands. At 4 p.m. of the day be-
fore the tenancy expired be sent notice that if the de-
partment remained in the rooms after noon next day
they would be held as tenants, at a rental increased
by 100 per cent. The head of the department ordered
some of the clerks to be in attendance at 830 a.m-
next day, and telegraphed to the Colonial Architect
to send down a staff of men at the same hour. Re-
sult—the rooms were cleared out before insurance
agent came to town next day, when he made copious
use of authorised but unrevised version. Rooms to
let are now on view. It isn’t often that the “ Lands ”
acts so promptly.
The Newcastle paper says that a man named
John Rogers “ died very suddenly, at his residence,
about 11.30 yesterday," and that “ during the morning
he attended the police court as a spectator, and after its
adjournment at Ip.m. conversed with several friends,
and returned home to all appearances in his customary
health.” We don’t know which to admire most —the
wonderful paper or the wonderful man.
The blackfellow whom the artist of Punch
sketched from life and put in a cartoon is dead. We do
not know if his funeral expenses were defrayed by the
proprietary of that journal, but we naturally suppose
they were. We will supply his epitaph for nothing:.
Here it sis.—“ Punch’s last.; tribute to Cueeajong
ChAELET ;
Once hale and hearty.
Once in manhood’s pride;
We drew this dusky party
And he died.
Tamworth, the capital of the Liverpool Plains,
is built above high-tide level. The Peel occasionally
takes a diversion in the way of running up the street
and over the telegraph poles. The pathways conse-
quently are all raised, and you reach them from the
road by stairs. These stairs are numerous enough, but
the prostrate form of some sleepy alderman usually
blocks the way of the pedestrian. It is painful enough
for a local editor, hooked out of the gutter, to see his
square bottle broken to pieces, but "to shee reshpeck-
able (hie) ald’man woke up when (hie) wasn’t ’sleep, is
too much for (hie) this child’s ftelin’s."
A well-known, but indifferently successful, Irish
comedian was playing Hamlet for his “ ben." some time
ago in Rockhampton, and he was in rather a muggy
condition, owing to having been to the races in the
daytime. He got on pretty well until he came to the
“Now might I doit pat, now he is praying” speech,
but in going off he fell with his head and shoulders * off ’
and the rest of his body “ on." At this the audience
yelled. Then picking himself up slowly and with dignity,
he staggered down to the footlights, and glaring
savagely at the pit, hissed—" It’s funny isn’t
it ?’’ The rest of the tragedy was performed in dumb
show.
Our friend “ Perk.” has concluded his series of
sketches on the “ The Destiny of Russia ’’ in the Gun-
dagai Tikes. Says R.W.! "At no distant day, when
the shrill blast of the trumpet, with its startling notes,
shall resound over Western Europe, mustering the
hosts of war to battle strife, the squadrons and troop-
ships of the Czar will probably disembark their martial
freight on Australia’s shores, who, scattering conster-
nation and dismay around ” Well, what it
they do! Have we not our Paddington warriors to
defend us, and heroic Nathan to rush Bayard-like into
the breach? You can’t scare us with this gag, R.W.
If you threaten, however, to write any more articles,
abject terror will be the lot of us all.
We have received from the publisher a pam-
phlet, entitled " Sydney by Night," written by “ A.
Bohemian.” The cover states that it contains “ start-
ling revelations,” but we can’t say that we have, in a
cursory glance over the work, stumbled upon any.
There is, it seems to us, a good deal of bad language
scattered about the various tales, sketches, etc., of
which the book is composed; and what ve are told
of “Sydney by Night” might be written—and, for all
we know, has been written—of many other places.
The price of the brochure is sixpence, and “ the pub-
lishers feel assured it will find its way into every home
circle throughout the colony.” We sincerely hope, for
their sakes, they will not be disappointed; and we
sincerely trust for] those of the “home circles" that
they will.
The wild-flower show at Manly has evidently
disagreed with one of our correspondents. In a general
way, we consider that he must enjoy but indifferent
health, since, as will be seen in a recent issue, his
spirits were powerfully affected by a tram motor, upon
which romantic subject he forwarded us an epic poem.
This time he sings the flower show; but, in some in-
explicable way, he seems to have got his last bug-bear
jumbled up with his new inspiration. In the second
verse, he says :
" The motor’s not the only
That Manly flowers don.
For impetus, not moanly.
Doth triumph through the town."
Then comes the| fervid burst: —
“ How fair this Manly Beach,
Beyond the cat’ract’s roam.
As all, the steamers reach
To gain their peaceful home."
We trust that “ Motus ” won’t send us anymore of
his poetry. It is, we feel, rather too high-class for
this journal. And he may just as well forward his copy
to Fitt-street, in the first instance, and thus save us the-
trouble of sending it round.
They still keep to the old fashion of a bellman
up North. Either the people cannot read the
Mkecurt, or else the spelling is bad and the type too
small. Recently the bellman had three proclamations
to make at one time—one about the amateur minstrels,
another about Miss Georgina Smithson, and another
about the sale of a fattening paddock and some stock.
The announcements were, it is alleged, delivered thus ;
“To-night, to-night! Georgina Smithson and the
Maitland Amateurs in a large forty-acre paddock near
the (hie) School of Arts. Front seats, 3s. Fair terms
to cash customers. The Maitland Amateurs will per-
form for positive sale, also forty fat calves. Under
instructions from Miss Georgina Smithson and for this
night only as Robinson Crnsoe, Messrs. Brunker and
Wolfe, who will likewise perform on the trapeze wire,
also on terms. These Minstrels are warranted well-
drained and free from burr, bearing the well-known
brand and from the famous fattening paddocks of
Georgina Smithson and Mr. Hollers way, who are about
to retire from business. Terms; 2\ cash; children,
half-price. Doors open at 11 o’clock; sale to commence
at 8 o’clock. God save the Maitland Amateurs!"
Things have got a bit mixed in a Northern town,
owing to the prevailing craze amongst the amateurs to
cover themselves with histrionic glory. The club had
had many rehearsals, and had, of course, got very
familiar, when the heroine of the drama, a single young
lady, felt dead “gone" on the villain of the play, a
married man with a small hut affectionate family. Her
attentions becoming embarrassing to the Benedick, in
conseqence of the chaff to which (he was subjected,
the other day he strove to give her the slip after re-
hearsal. Hardly was he clear of the stage, than scent-
ing bis motive, the enamoured damsel gave chase.
Sighting her prey at the comer of the street, she tore
after him. A’bus passing, he jumped into it. Hailing a
cab, she followed. Alighting after a while from his
two-horse carriage, the gentleman tore down a by-street,
but she being on the alert pursued him in her chariot,
and he was eventually captured near the Post-office.
The townspeople took a great deal of interest in these
proceedings, and it is probable that the performance of
the company will be largely and influentially attended.
In the meantime, the Benedick is, we believe, calling
for tenders for the conveyance of himself, his wife and
four children, by sailing ship to—any where. The prices
of admission will be 35., 25., and Is.; but this will not
include the after-piece.
For thoughtful consideration, and a thorough
insight into human nature, commend ns to the men of
Orange. At a recent meeting, which was held for the pur-
pose of deciding as to the fittest way of honoring Sir
John Robertson, who was to open the Orange Public
Schocl, one Mr. Richardson proposed that there be
no spirits at the banquet, and that the tickets be 10s.
each. Mr. Torpy thought “ the affair would lack tone
and he quite absurd." Mr. Fubbs (“ Phoebus, what a
name !’’) objected to have the effects of drinking or tip-
pling thrown into his nostrils, and furthermore declared
he would neither subscribe nor attend if there was
liquor to be included in the banquet This terrible
threat, however, had no effect on Mr Evans, who
remarked “it was rather a scaly way of doing the
business,” and Mr. Paul declared, with far more point
than poetry, that he did not believe in giving Sir John
Robertson the gripes : if they wanted to get anything from
the Ministers they should have wine with the banquet.
Mr. Parker, however, capped the lot by boldly declar-
ing he did not believe in setting the guests or those
who take part, boozy or dizzy. Now, all this is good,
and clearly proves the high estimation in which Orange
men hold the present Ministry. Mr. Parker guards
our representatives’ social standing, and Mr. Paul cares
for their bodily welfare. An Orange banquet is evi-
dently a serious matter, and the trouble lies in the
difficulty of deciding which is the lesser evil—getting
“ the booze ’’ or getting “ the gripes." Mr. Richard,
son’s teetotal resolution was carried by a large ma-
jority. Therefore, there will be no spirits, wines, or
beer at that banquet. Therefore, again, there will be
no Minister.
About a month ago, a lady residing in a fashion-
able suburb engaged a demure-looking young girl as
parlour-maid, and in due course the servant entered upon
her duties. From the start she proved herself to be a
clean and tidy girl, and for a week happiness reigned
in the mansion, At the expiration of that period, Jane
announced in tones of joy to her mistress that she had
discovered in the person of the local shoemaker a long-
lost brother; and furthermore, it turned out that the
chemist’s assistant had resided in the same street as
her parents, in Edinburgh. The policeman was also in
it to the extent of having saved her brother’s life “ on
the passage out,” and the man who drove the baker’s
cart belonged to the same lodge as she did. From that
time complicatioes began to arise in the highly-elegible
suburban residence. Cold corned beef and hot plates
were slapped on the dining-room table just in time for
master to miss his train, and the “Missus’” lunch
varied from half-past 11 till half-past 4. One night
Jane gave an evening party in the kitchen, included in
which was a dance that jumped all the plates off the
dresser, and a supper which comprised the flower of
the fowl-yard. Next morning Jane was missing, and
the 1 o'clock gun had “gone” without the shutters in
the chemist’s shop having been taken down. About 2
the shoemaker called round with a cart for Jane’s
" things," stating that he was to marry her next morn-
ing ; and hardly had he gone, when the baker (without
the cart, and in his Sunday clothes) knocked at the
door, and requested the lady of the house to tell Jane
to look sharp, as the parson was in a hurry to get the
wedding over, because he had a funeral on. When the
evening came, and the mystic heavens became star-
bespangled, the policeman stood outside the house and
whistled “My pretty Jane” for two solid hours. A
wardrobe stocktaking discovered the fact that a seal-
skin jacket and a satin dolman had mysteriously dis-
appeared ; and subsequently, a silver soup ladle and
three dessert-spoons were found to have vanished into
thin air. The lady is now on the look-out for an un-
pustuled Chinaman, or a docile Kanaka.
Mr. John Mayo.
We herewith give a portrait of Mr. John Mayo,
the well-known sportsman, whose name has of
late come prominently before the public on ac-
count of the disqualification inflicted on him by
the Australian Jockey Club, in connection with
the running of the horse Elastic at the Club s
recent meeting; and who, having sold his no®
string of racehorses, has temporarily retired
from the turf. As the matter in dispute ia B ° w
before the courts, it cannot, for the present, form
the subject of further remark in these columns.
ME. JOHN MAYO.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
oiiflll be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Boccaccio Park (Vic.) Trotting Match October 8.
Btawkes’ Bay (N.Z.) Racing Club l2.
October 12, 10.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13,15.
VT.V."V.V.V.V.'.V."V.!V. , .', - .'.‘.'.'.October 20, 2L
Park October 22.
Wanganui (N Z.) Trotting Club Meeting ....October 22.
Ji SR C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 13. 5.
Brighton Park (Vic.) November 9.
Morrumburrah JSbve mber 9
Parramatta November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) j. C. Spring Meeting .Nov. 8.10,11.
Queensland T. C November 9, 10.
Wyndham (Vic.) November 19.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club... November 23. 24, 20.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting ....Nov. 23, 24.
Murrximbidgee Spring Meeting...... November 24. 25. 26.
Dunedin (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting... November 29, 30.
Wellington Racing Club (N.Z.) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30.
Cootamnndra .....December 'j 1’
Oamaru (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Sfl m ora December 8, 9.
Tasmanian J.C December 10.
Bathurst Amateur Turf Club 10.
Bairnsdale (Vic.) December 21, 22.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A J.C. Summer Meeting December.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club ..December 26.
Williamstown (Vic.) „.. December 24.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 27.
Sydney Turf Club ....December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 26; Jan. 1, 2.
V.E.C. Champion January 1.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) ...January 1.
Glen Innes
Rroulee ....January 26 and 27
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting... Fob. 23,24,25—1882.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11,12—1882.
AQUATICS.
Ross v. Hanlan (Toronto) October.
M. Trial Fours .....October 8.
N. Rowing Association Regatta October 8,15.
All Schools’ Race—Mayor’s Trophy October 15.
Double Bay Regatta ...October 29.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
North Shore Rowing Club Regatta November 19.
South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion Regatta December.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Swan v. Edwards, 48 hours Go-as.you-please,
£lOO October 6.
Hunter’s Hill Athletic Club Sports October 8.
Melbourne Cricket and Football Club Sports Nov. 9.
CRICKET.
Intercolonial, at Melbourne December 24, 23, 27.
All England v. Sydney December 9,10, 12.
All England v. Victoria December 16,17, 19.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The National C.C. think that the Eureka C.C.
require a “ character.”
Several fine salmon have lately been canght in
the Derwent, Tasmania,
An intercolonial handball match between N.S.
Wales and Victoria will take place early in November.
Great preparations are being made.
The Y.R C. Sires’ Produce Stake, just
nominated for, is already worth 630 sovereigns. The
eventual race should bring some £l5OO to the fortunate
winner.
Mr. Blanton’s Exeter, 5 years, carrying 9st.
41b., won the Brighton Cup, 2 miles, in 3 min. 31 sec.
Peter, the acknowledged fastest horse on the English
turf, ran second.
At the Newcastle Cricket Club annual sports on
Saturday, the attendance was good, and the weather
beautiful. There were about a couple of thousand per-
sons on the ground.
Swan and Edwards’ forty-eight hours’ go-as-
you please match commences this evening (Thursday)
at 10 p.m. at the Hippodrome. The affair is creating
great interest—among the speculators.
The Cup matches this seasbn are subject to
special matches, and in the event of wet weather they
will have to fall back a Saturday. Secretaries arrang-
ing the special matches should bear this in mind.
The interest in football has not yet subsided in
Victoria. The Geelong Football Club, the premier
club of last season, has decided to challenge South
Melbourne, the leading club this season, to a match for
the championship.
The Hunter’s Hill Amateur Athletic Club’s
Sports, originally arranged for Ist October, have been
postponed till Saturday, Bth. Steamers will leave
Lime-street Wharf at 145 p.m. Admission to the
ground is by invitation ticket.
The S.A. Jockey Club Company’s half-yearly
report shows an improvement in the financial position
of the company, mainly owing to net profits of nearly
£BOO by the use of the totalisator. The secretary has
written to America to secure a first-class machine.
Tamworth and Attunga’s first match this season
was played on the 24th September, resulting in a vic-
tory for Tamworth with 10 wickets to spare. The
batting of Lambert and bowling of Aisbett (a young
player) for Tamworth were greatly admired, as were
also Goad and M’Kenzie on the Attunga side.
Great endeavours are being made by the North
Shore Rowing Club to secure the success of their
regatta on the 19th November. Senior sculls in out-
riggers will be open to other clubs. The N S.R.C. will
inaugurate a series of annual balls by holding one in
the Masonic Hall about the end of next month.
The Champion Rifle Match for a gold medal
(value £22), and £lO in money, came off at Sandy Bay
(Tasmania), on September 17th, between 36competitors
drawn from the Northern and Southern Volunteer
Forces, and resulted in a victory for Captain Hunt, of
the permanent staff, he having obtained a total score
of 64.
There was a large attendance at the Fortnightly
Amateur Race meeting at Bathurst, on Saturday after-
noon. The principal event was the Hurdle Race, which
was won by Bayliss’s Napper Tandy, beating Dr. Mac-
chattie’s Partner and Dr. Cortis’s Vrill. The race was
a certainty for Vrill, but he baulked at the second
hurdle.
Hopbloom, the stallion recently purchased for
the stud in Australia, is by Parmesan, out of a sister to
both Lord Lyon and the famous Achievement; and he
not only won at all ages, and weights, and distances,
but finished his home career by pulling off the Grand
Sundown Hurdle Race (worth £1400), in which he
carried list. 71b.
The Berrima district races, on October 20
*sd 21, comprise :—Maiden Plate (11 mile), Prince of
Wales’ Stakes, Browlee Handicap, Helter Skelter,
Flying Handicap, Hack Handicap, for the first day;
and Trial Stakes, Novel Race, Bemma Handicap (2
Miles), Ladies’ Mile, Hack Handicap, and Farewell
Handicap for the second day.
There is a billiard player at Gympie named
Rooerts, who has been astounding everybody by his
“Mger and thumb playing and billiard tricks with hats
and tumblers. The local “ rag ’’ dubs him as the
native champion billiard player of the colonies."
oan it be our own little man, whose smiling face has
n ot beamed upon ns for some time ? It is.
The Sporting Life mentions that Fred.
Archer was called before the stewards at Goodwood for
“suspicious riding," and severely lectured; the said
riding being an apparent attempt to effect the wiu of
his own mount by jamming the horse of a fellow
jockey—a method of assisting victory he has frequently
been thought to practice successfully.
Hesperian’s nomination for the Melbourne Cup
has been adjudged informal, and therefore all bets are
off. But what about the bets that were made before
the nomination? In the latter case, backers chance
the nomination, and if a horse be not nominated, the
wager is considered lost. What are the “ books "
about that they don’t see into this matter ?
At the Adelaide Racing Club meeting, King Lud
was printed inadvertently on the card as carrying 9st,
whereas he was fixed at 6st. 121 b. The owner of Moun-
taineer, carrying Bst., backed his horse, thinking that
King Lud could not give him a stone. King Lud won
easily, and Mountaineer’s owner, discovering the mis-
take, refused to pay his wager. He entered a protest,
which was dismissed, bub he refused to accept the
Club’s decision, intending to carry the matter into
Court.
The mantle of Robbins —not the great medium,
bnt of auctioneering fame —has fallen on the promoters
of the Hippodrome contests, and the ladies’ go-as-you-
please was thus daily chronicled: —“Ali going well,
smiling and happy, after twelve hours of kind Nature’s
restorer.” “ Everyone delighted, electrified, paralysed.”
“ Repeated changes of picturesque costume." “ Who
is to be the winner?” “The [track brilliant with rich
dresses and handsome bouquets.” Of course, the
visitor to the show became disenchanted.
“Tout Cela.” of the Melbourne Sportsman,
describes the Duchess as fairly grown, somewhat
lengthy, stands on lowish legs, and shows pleasing
symmetry, without any remarkable quality to pronounce
her a flyer at first glance. In fact, she is one of that
rather numerous class of race-horses whose good points
wonderfully develop themselves as soon as a critic is told
of them. (Ahem!) Following is the pedigree of her
dam: —“ Princess is by King Alfred, dam Spitfire, by
Richview, grandam by Traveller, out of Sydney-bred
mare.
Mr. Upward (of Corio Bay), who stroked the
Victorian eight against ns in last intercolonial race, is
now in the Government Printing Office, Melbourne, and
has joined the Civil Service Club. He is devoting his
spare time to working up the raw material which the
club is so well able to supply. Time was when the
Service were generally about at the right end of a
regatta race; they are still about, but always at the
other end. However, as they have begun on the right
prescription for sick rowing clubs —work—they may
soon be to the fore again.
According to cable news, Wallace Rosa has at
last induced Hanlan to make a match. It has been
arranged to come off at Toronto on the Ist November.
It is reported that Ross was not well in England, and
that his rowing there must not be taken as a true
“ line.” He has been persistent in his endeavours to
meet Hanlan; though the latter has been willing to
accommodate him, he has always stuck out for terms
that hardly suited Ross. The locale of the race to be
at Toronto was one of Hanlan’s conditions, and we
presume the race is for £lOOO aside—another.
Duchess still remains in the honoured place for
the Melbourne Cup. Waxy receives support in doubles,
and Canary has been backed to win a fair stake. Chat-
terer also has been the subject of investment. For the
Derby, Duke has been steadily backed; Darebin also
finds favour still. Spiuningdale and Somerset retain
their odds. For the Maribyrnong, Tangle has been
backed to win a few thousands. She is by Hawthorn-
den (imp.) out of Sunshine, and was purchased by Mr.
W. Pearson, at the large sale of yearlings held in the
Randwick paddock last May. She is training at Caul-
field. Segenhoe and Saionara are still favourites at
100 to 10. Iphigenia (the Pamic-Miss Melbourne filly)
was the subject of a commission during the week, all
the hundreds to four being taken.
As has already been stated, Mr. W. G. George,
the English amateur runner, is to meet Myers in
America. They will compete in three runs, at half a
mile, three-quarters, and a mile. It is pretty sure that
the American wonder can run the first-named distance
in Imin. filsec., and he is certain to beat George, as he
will also do in all probability at three-quarters of a
mile. The mile, however, is sure to be a close affair.
Myers has only once travelled so far, when his time
was 4min. 29}sec George, on the other hand, will be
thoroughly at home at the distance, and, under favour-
able circumstances, is known to be able to do 4min.
20sec. The small size of the American ground will
doubtless be somewhat against him, but a little prac-
tice will enable him to overcome the difficulty of the
numerous turns.
t’lThe A.J.C. intend to make extensive alterations
at Randwick. The width of the course is to be a chain
and a half, with the present length, one mile and a
quarter. It is proposed to widen the straight running
from the Derby turn to the tan-crossing, 20 feet, and
thence to a point near the mile and the seven furlongs
posts 40 feet. From the post last mentioned the new
course will run outside of the course now in use, up to
the two miles post, when it will follow the present line
until it reaches the five furlongs post, whence it will
again be carried outside the present course up to the
Derby turn. The new line will entirely do away with
the objectionable turn at the Derby corner and the tan-
crossing, and its construction will facilitate the forma-
tion of an improved training track qniteja chain in width
at its narrowest part.
The matches for the Holdsworth-Gardyne
Challenge Cup will be commenced on the Association
Ground on Saturday. The University and Carlton
Clubs open the campaign. Each match for this trophy,
if not played out on the two Saturdays fixed, is to be
concluded during the following week, so that this
season will not be characterized by unsatisfactory
draws. Appended is the list of dates for the Cup
matches: —
1881
Oct. 8, Uni’ty v. Carlton
Oct. 15, Uni’ty v. Carlton
Oct. 22, Albert v. Warwick
Oct. 29, Albert v. Warwick
Nov. 5, Albert v. Uni’ty
Nov. 12, Albert v. Uni’ty
Nov. 19, W’rw’k v. Carlton
Nov. 26, W’rw’k v. Carlton
Dec. 3, Albert v. Carlton
Dec. 17, Albert v. Carlton
1882
Jan. 7, Warwick v. Uni’ty
Jan. 14, Warwick v. Uni’ty
1882.
Jan. 21, Carlton v. Uni’ty
Jan. 28, Carlton v. Uni’ty
Feb. 4, Albert v. W’rwick
Feb. 25, Albert v. W’rwick
Mar. a, Carlton v. W’rw’k
Mar. 11, Carlton v. W’rw’k
Mar, 18, Carlton v. Albert
Mar. 25, Carlton v. Albert
Apr. 1, Albert v. Uni’ty
Apr. 8. Albert v. Uni’ty
Apr. 15, W’rwick v. Uni’ty
Apr. 22, W’awick v. Uni.ty
Thirty-four clubs have entered for the Thomson
Junior Challenge Cup, comprising the following:—
Corio, Young Oxford, Croydon, Derwent, Glebe Strath-
more, Osborne, Clio, Royal Orient, Lincoln, National,
Excelsior, Perseverance, Alexandra. Lismore, Our
Boys, Oriental, Belmore, Ironclad, Albion, Royston,
C mqueror, fSt Peters, Australian Surrey, Rugby,
Waratah, Orient, Surrey United, Richmond, Woollahra
Victoria, Montrose, Caxton, Strathearn, Herald, and
Oxford. Nat has been busy during the past week pre-
paring the wickets. Matting, so popular in England, is
to be used for the first time in the oolonv. The um-
pires appointed are Messrs. J. Hinchey, J. Clements,
W. Hume, J Thompson, Lieut. W. P Mulbolland, J.
Austin, and M. F. Cullen with Mr. S. Tomlins as official
scorer. To ensure the trophy being won this season,
matches are to be played in heats. It is to be re-
gretted that the Association have not seen fit to offer a
trophy for individual performances in these matches.
It proves that delegates appear more in the interest of
clubs than in that of cricket in general. Perhaps these
junior matches will interfere with the popularity of the
senior matches.
We really thought that young Bob Edwards
could have no complaints as to the treatment he re-
ceived from us during the contest for the Walker
Whisky prizes. His faultless style elicited universal
admiration, and the Sydney press in general commended
his straight rowing. Yet a “Native," dating from
Sydney, and writing to the Australasian, informs us
that during his late match with M'Donald, lemonade
bottles and other “refreshments” were thrown at the
crew piloting him. It is also alleged that Pearce—the
aesthetic, the gentlemanly rower—was so annoyed at
the foul language used towards him during his race
with Rush that he jumped out of his boat and swam to
the offenders to punish them, and—didn’t Then the
“ Native” rings the changes on the Lord Harris fracas,
and also tells us that “Hanlan told Trickett, after his
race with him, that he would have come to Australia
to row him, and it would have paid him better to come
here, but he had heard so many tales of Australia’s
foul play that it frightened him from coming.” So
“ Native ” knows all about it. It’s too thin, old fellow;
date your scribble from Melbourne next time, and don’t
prate so much about our “ noble Parramatta River ’’ —
we are used to it, if you aren’t.
The fourth annual meeting of the Bathurst All
Saints College Athletic Club took place on September
24, on the Cricket Ground, and passed off very success-
fully. Results; —loo Yards Handicap: R. Ashworth,
scratch 1, H. M’Phillamy, 6 yards, 2. 440 Yards Walk-
ing Handicap: W. Busby 1, R. Daugar 2. Throwing
Cricket Ball: C. Cox, 85 yards, 1. Half-mile Handicap,
boys under 15: W. Lee, 80 yards, 1, P. M’Phillamy,
scratch, 2. 220 Yards Maiden Handicap: Norman
Suttor, 17 yards, 1, Flood, 5 yards, 2. All Schools'
Race: R. Ashworth 1, Quick 2, H. M’Phillamy 3.
Time, 16 sec. 100 Yards Handicap, boys under 12: S.
Rouse L, Throwing Cricket Ball, boys under 14: F.
Walker 1. 150 Yards Handicap; C. Cox, 10 yards, 1, R.
Ashworth, scratch, 2. 1 Mile Walking Handicap : G.
Platt, scratch, 1, J. Barton, 250 yards, 2. 120 Yards
Hurdle Race : C. Cox, 6 yards, 1, A. Cox, 7 yards, 2, R.
Ashworth, scratch, 3. Ex-Students’ Race: W.
M’Phillamy, 9 yards, 1, H. Mathews, scratch, 2. High
Jump: R. Ashworth, 5 ft. 1 in., 1, H. M’Phillamy 2.
Amateur Strangers’ Handicap; J. Cunningham, 10
yards, 1, H. Mathews, scratch, 2. 1 mile Handicap : J.
Barton 1, A. Hellyer 2. Long Jump ; R. Ashworth, 17
feet, 1, Norman M’Phillamy 2. Obstacle Race : C. Cox
1.
The St. John, N.B. Sun ia responsible for the
following:—“You have no idea,” said a veteran sport-
ing man from the Upper Provinces to a Sun reporter
the other day, “ what precautions had to be taken when
in England about Hanlan’s food. It would be wrong to
say that any attempt was made to poison the champion,
but there was good reason to fear that he might be
doctored just before a race came off; so all possible
precautions were taken about his food. Steaks and
chops wero never purchased two days in succession
from the same butcher, and it was the same with every
article used. Sometimes a servant was instructed to
say to the butcher that he wanted an extra good steak,
as it was for Hanlan, but meat so bought was never
given to him. On one or two occasions even the
onesty of the cooks was not implicitly relied on, and
precautions were taken to thwart any designs from that
quarter. The cook was instructed to broil one steak
specially for Hanlan, and another for his trainer, but
when served an exchange was made, and Hanlan ate his
trainer’s steak. You have no idea of the watchfulness
exercised in the matter of clothing also, each article
always being closely examined when brought from the
laundry, and again before being donned by the
champion. It would be very easy, you know, to
impregnate, say a shirt, with some irritant poison that
would produce a distressing skin eruption, or some-
of the kind, that might unfit Hanlan for work. Such
things have been done, if not to oarsmen, at all events
to racehorses, by means of doctoring their blankets.
The knowing ones never throw away a chance, and
although the immediate friends of Hanlau had every
confidence in his ability to whip any man in England,
they scored every point possible. The neatest thing in
this line was done just before a certain race —I will not,
for obvious reasons, say with whom. You know oars-
men require a beef steak or chop an hour or two before
a race, and in this case, as the start was fixed for one
o’clock, the trainers of both men ordered steaks to be
cooked at eleven o’clock. In Hanlan’s case, however,
the steak was not eaten, but thrown away, and the
champion remained quiet, his cook having been ordered
to have a beefsteak ready at 12.30, which was done.
Just as Hanlan sat down to his beef, his backer
went up to the referee and informed him that he had
just been credibly informed that the finishing buoy had
been shifted, and demanded an investigation. After
some opposition, the request was acceded to, and the
consequence was that over an hour was lost, the race
actually starting almost seventy minutes after the time
first agreed upon. Hanlau came out fresh for a start,
in better form to row a stiff race than his antagonist,
who had lunched three hours before. The men were
not evenly matched, but if they had been, Hanlau,
being the better prepared about the stomach, would
have had a decided advantage. These trainers are
sharp fellows, I tell you.”
The E ectrio Telegraph regatta, which took place
on Saturday, cannot be said to have been successful so
far ns the arrangements for visitors were concerned.
The first race was to have started at 2.15, but
the steamer conveying the guests, did not leave
Wolloomooloo Bay till that time. Then, a high
wind was blowing, the water was very rough
near Mossman’s Bay, the scene of the regatta,
and the steamer had to keep out from the shore, there-
by dejmving the passengers of the view of the races un-
til the wind lulled. Of course the affair was carried on
by electricity, and there was plenty of “storage ’ aboard,
so much so that the steamer went 20 or3o degrees out of
course, and Greg. Board was requested to stand further
away from the compass, which he did, when all became
“OK.” There were several “ electric boys ” aboard,
and there were “relays” of refreshments, whereby the
guests were satisfied, though the absence of “ hard
stuff ’’ precluded the opportunity of having “ a.h.r.’’,
and the temperance contingent “ wired in ” alone, and
filled their “ cells.” The races did not display great
form upon the part of the competitors; some of them
would have been more at home at “ zinc and copper”
fastened vessels, a good many were “out of adjustment,”
and one crew in a gig race, manifested a desire to join
the “submarine staff.” The “ duplex ” race was a very
good contest, the “ armature ” of the winners being
at times 40 and 12 to the minute. One of the boats,
fixed as a racing point, was adorned with a yellow flag,
and the judge of the races was stationed on the steamer
the whole of the afternoon. These with other incidents
caused a great deal of “ three dashes and a dot.” The
ladies, cooped up on board the steamer, had no oppor-
tunity to display their dresses. It was the intention of
the committee to land passengers at Cremome, but the
loss of time prevented this arrangement being carried
out. Two sisters from Oxford-street looked enchanting-
dresses, light silk, trimmed with navy blue
and black silk —May Queen hats. Brown satin, blue
velvet, black velvet bodice with satin underskirt, green
silk, were costumes very much admired; and it is a pity
the fair wearers had not a better opportunity for dis-
playing them. The Glebe Band relieved the monotony
on board the steamer. Following are the results of the
contests: —All-comers, single sculls, for silver cup : W.
F. Corbett, 1. Four oars in clinker outriggers (mar-
ried men): N. Hayward (stroke), W. F. Corbett, F. V.
Hedges, F. Bussell,!. The other boat got “fused”
shortly after the start. Scratch pair oars (single men) :
Whysall and Doutty, 1. Youths under 19 years, pair
oars: Sheely and McGrath, 1. Double sculls handi-
cap : Corbett and Blackstone, 1. Messengers pair oars:
H. Pickering and A. W. Rice, 1; Alldrick and Lucas, 2.
Scratch pair oars (married men) : Hedges and Ferris, 1;
Corbett and King, 2. Four Oars, in clinker outriggers :
J. B Doutty (stroke), E. J. Haslingden, E. M’Carthy,
E. J. Bryant, 1; W. A. Blackstone (stroke), W. A.
Varley, F. Whysall, C. J. Murphy, 2. The latter crew
were upset at their embarkation, but, notwithstanding,
they pulled a plucky race, which they only lost in nego-
tiating the last turn. ,
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Victorian Trotting Club are getting their
course at Elsteruwick into good order, and it is pro-
posed that at the opening meeting, the clnb shall add
200 sovs. to a sweepstakes of 20 sovs. each, for best
three, in five mile heats, to be open to all horses; also a
Trotting Sires’ Produce Stakes, with 100 sovs.added... The
new handsome pavilion of the Melbourne Cricket Club
is progressing rapidly, and the whole structure will he
ready for occupation on the 14th December next
The East Melbourne Club is £7OO in,debt, mostly in-
curred in altering their ground The Victorian Ama-
teur Turf Club having decided to hold a meeting on Box-
ing Day, the Williamstown Club determined to hold
their annual meeting on the previous Saturday A
good programme is to be issued at Kensington Park in
October. The meeting is to be extended over two days,
Saturday and Monday Ned Elliot, the Victorian
wicket-keeper, does not play this season, which will be a
great loss to East Melbourne. O’Hanlon is the next
best wicket-keeper M‘Shane has arrived from Ade-
laide in good cricketing form, and will fight once more
for East Melbourne The Alexandra Cricket Club
banqueted on Friday evening at MTuerney’s Hotel,
Double Bay, when the trophies won during last season
were presented to the following winners:—batting,
James Macintosh; bowling, H. N. Ellis; and T. Ridley
for efficient captaincy. A very pleasant evening was
spent Two private sculling races took place in
Woolloomooloo Bay on Saturday afternoon, the course
being from Cowper Wharf round Pinchgut and back.
The first, between M'Cann and Wright, was won easily
by the former; the second, between Martin and Brown,
was an easy win for Martin The trustees of the
National Park, at Port Hacking, have in contemplation
the construction of a dam on the grounds, which will
throw back many miles of water, which they intend
using for the acclimatisation of salmon, trout, and other
fish. Towards the cost of this work, the Hon Thomas
Holt, previous to his departure for Europe by the
Cathay, handed to Mr. Walter Bradley, the treasurer of
the park, a cheque for £lOO The South Australian
Cricket Association propose to erect a pavilion at a cost
of £l5OO An afternoon’s rabbit coursing was wit-
nessed by some four hundred people at Kensington
ton Park (Vic.), on Monday, September 26, when a
forty-eight dog stake for greyhounds, a sixteen dog
stake for terriers, and a twenty-four dog stake for
beaten greyhounds were successfully brought off. The
forty-eight dog stake was won by Mr. Thompson’s East
Lynne, the terrier stake by Mr. Boyd’s Wriggle, and the
consolation stake by Mr. T. Daly’s Snooks At Eve-
leigh, on Saturday, a match between the Atlas and Red-
fern Cambridge C.C. resulted in a win for the latter
by 5 runs. Scores : Atlas 44, Eedfern and Cambridge
49 The Clio and St. Peter’s C.C. met last
Saturday on the latter’s ground. The Clios won
after a well-played game, by 4 runs. Scores: Clio
40, St. Peters 36 The Croydon and Kent
C.C’s. met on Saturday last on the ground of the latter.
The result was a win for the Kent by 6 runs. Scores :
Kent, 24; Croydon, 18. The low scoring on both sides
is attributable to the excellent bowling of C. and J. T.
Pallett for the Kents and A. Dennis and M. Carroll fet
the Croydons.
THE WALK OF THE WOMEN.
It ia refreshing, even amidst all onr complica-
tions—legal, municipal, and legislative—to consider
that we live in an age of advanced civilization! No
more, in our day, is Bruno bated with mastiffs and
quarter-staves, or does steel-spurred Chanticleer con-
test a main in opea daylight. Drawing the badger is a
delicate pastime which the law also forbids; and the
same arbitrary legal code is equally stringent on the
subject of a dog-flght. If two butcher-boys meet in
the suburbs, and *' plug” each other for a pound a side,
they are arrested and imprisoned—and a statement of
their exploit appears in the evening paper labelled, in
large pica caps.: 11 Prize-fight Frustrated—Capture of
the two Demoniac Desperadoes;” whereat Darling Point
shudders, and the dwellers in Manly mansions con-
gratnlate themselves that the ‘‘barbaric era" is over.
But, while these, and other of the “ manly " recreations
of our forefathers are forbidden by the Legislature,
our rulers are too tender-hearted to debar us from the
enjoyment of every noble and intellectual pastime;
and it is to this legislative leniency that we are in-
debted for the glorious spectacle at which we, last
week, assisted.
« • #
In common with the majority of mortal grovel-
lers, we take kindly to any novelty in the amusement
line ; and all announcemeuts of such are perused by us
with lively interest. '1 bus, when we read in the papers
and upon the hoardings, that there was to be “ a grand
ladies’ tournament," in which the competitors wero
for six days to go as they pleased in “ rich and appro-
Sriato attire,” to the strains of “ stirring music by the
ity United Baud,” our souls were glad within us, and
we made up our minds to behold the entrancing
spectacle or die.
« « •
Prior to visiting the hippodrome, we had con-
jured up in our minds visions of what the spectacle
would be. We imagined a bevy of symmetrically-
formed and comely-faced damsels, garbed in costumes
which displayed not only richness cf material, but
artistic blending of colour, gracefully performing their
task in an elegant pavilion, their springy steps keeping
time with the stirring melodies of inspired musicians.
In the day-time, onr minds were haunted by visions of
tinted lamps and kaleidoscopic decorations. At night,
our repose was made delicious by dreams of prismatic
fountains and aromatic atmospheres.
The preliminary announcement alone did this; hut
imagine our feelings when we learned that no fewer
than twelve ladies had “ entered ’’ and wonld compete
for the prizes—the first of which consisted of £5O in
coin of the realm, and a diamond cross (to be hung
upon the alabaster bosom of the fair winner); the
second, £25, in negotiable spondulix, but no regalia;
and tne third, an ever-welcome “ tenner." There was
—and to us this was an item of absorbing interest—in
addition to these prizes a‘‘beautiful gold locket” to
be awarded by the judges to the “ lady " whom they
considered to be the “ neatest and best dressed.” With
an eager eye we spelled through tbo list of the fair
candidates. It was as follows :—“ Mias Page, Miss
O’Brien, Mdlle. Azella, Miss Harris, Mdme. Anderson,
Miss Wallace, Miss Walker, Miss Phillips, Miss St.
George, Miss Nichols, Miss Lamond, Miss Stanley."
What a forest of delicious conjecture the announce-
ment of these names opened up I No sooner had we
mastered the various appellations than we began to
wonder whether
It was night-time when we paid our first visit
to the Hippodrome, which we may remark is a large
circus-tent pitched upon a vacant lot in Pitt-street,
south, nigh unto the sport known to the universe as
Paddy’s Market. We don’t know why these specula-
tors in pedestrianism call their tent a hippodrome,
since it is about as much like a hippodrome as John
Lucas is like a fairy ; but, of course, this being a free
country, they are at liberty to term it what they
please. The only novelty about the pavilion,
as far as we could see, was that It had
no seats; so that the spectator was either
obliged to stand up or else to (literally) prostrate him-
self, in the dust, at the feet of the lady-performers.
The interior of the tent presented a curious spectacle.
It was partly lighted with gas and partly by naptha
lamps, which, were ingeniously manufactured out of a
piece of tow and a ginger-beer bottle. These primitive
illuminations were liberally distributed over the ground,
and the effect, as may he well imagined was dazzlingly
brilliant. Those were lamps—
“ Not such as lend their ray
Glimmering and cold to those who nightly pray
In holy Koom, or Mecca’s dim arcades,
But brilliant, soft, such lights as lovely maids
Look loveliest in.”
This was written by Tom Moore, of somewhere else.
Perhaps, if Tom had gone to the hippodrome, he would
have written something like it about that. The
night being hot, the roof of the tent—always ex-
cepting that portion which shielded the giddy author
of “La Belle Americaine” and his stock of the
“choicest brands” from the dews of evening—had been
removed, and it was curious to watch the smoke-dust-
and-kerosene-charged air of the tent seething upward,
to the star-lit heavens. Anyhow, we were able to look
from Venus below to Venus above. The company was
very numerous, and the space round the track wa»
The story-books we’d read of yore
Lived once more in our fevered brain;
The splendours of Arabian lore
We madly wallowed in again.
We thought of Dudu and Gulnare ;
We pondered o’er Zuleika’s grace;
And in each sun-mote of the air
We saw a bright celestial face |
No more prosaic the earth seemed;
That " ad ” was like a magic potion ;
We ate not, smoked not,—only dreamed
Of that sweet ‘"poetry of motion."
Miss Page was fair, Miss’Nichols slim.
Or else if any fellah ’>• irro ijS-S
Was collared on Miss Walker, or
Was “ gone" upon Azella.
We liked the name of Miss St. George ;
Lamond, too, smelt of Paris;
We longed to feast our gaze upon
The “ twinkling feet” of Harris.
In hours of toil, with ** copy” scarce.
Miss Walker was our solace;
We conjured up the graceful form—
How often!—of Miss Wallace!
We dreamed Miss Phillips was a kind
Of bashful sylph-like creature;
And something told us Stanley was
Angelic as to feature.
Fair Anderson (her Christian name
We placed amongst the Maries)
Was by us crowned the lovely queen
Of those athletic fairies.


NOTICE.— On and after Saturday, the Ist October,
my prices for Wines, Spirits, Ales, and Stoats
will be as quoted in my standing advertisement in this
paper.
T. VIVIAN EAUCH,
Wine and Spirit Merchant,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
c
ASH PBICE LIST OF WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
Case
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24s to 36a Od j Good Sherry 24s to 36s Od
SPIRITS.
Rum, Red Heart... 48s Od
Enin, Preston’s Old
Jamaica 33s Od
Rum, Lowndes’ Old
Jamaica 34s Od
per case.
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (med.
size) ...
Wolfe’s Schnapps
Hennessy’s
Brandy
Hennessy’s
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky.. 46s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Burke’s *♦* Case
Whisky
Other Brands Irish
Whisky ... 37s to 45s Od
ALES AND STOUTS,
per doz
Bulldog Ale, qts.... lls Od
59s Od
71s Od
45s Od
45s Od
42s Od
38s 6d
52s Od
46s Od
43s Od
44s Od
Bulldog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qts.,,
Foster’s Ale, pints.
Aitken’s Ale, qts...
Dryborongh’s Ale,
pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
8s Od
lls Od
8s On
10s Od
6s 6d
9s 9d
per doz.
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints ... 6d 9d
Foster’s Stout, qts. 10s Od
„ „ pints 7s 0
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts 10s 6d
Pig Brand Stout,
pints 7s 6d
W Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of one sort, otherwise
6d. per dozen extra will be charged.
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town or to the Wharves or Eedfern Railway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN EAUCH,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANT,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Largest establishment op the
KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST.
IS «. S* 3. M. 4. M, sa
Pure Indian Tea j P er lb-
CHINA GROWN TEAS. Is 2d, Is 4d. Is 6d. Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended to.
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3id per lb.
T
HE Most PERFECT-PITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANNELL’S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
HOSIERS, AND MEN’If’MERCEES,
298 George Street, Sydney
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
gMALL POX.
SMALL POX.
PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE.
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHET is the best PRE-
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX. Price, Is.; from all
Chemists.
NOTICE.
PIRATES of PENZANCE,
H.M S. PINAFORE,
PATIENCE.
By Messrs Gilbert and Sullivan.
BILLEE TAYLOR,
By Messrs. Stephens and Solomon.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON is the sole proprietor in
the Australian colonies, Tasmania, and New Zealand,
of the above comic operas. Proprietors, managers, and
lessees of Theatres, Concert Halls, &c., and other per-
sons, whether professionals or amateurs, are therefore
warned that the unauthorized production of the said
operas, or any portion of the words or music thereof,
renders all concerned therein liable to severe penalties
and damages, which will, in every case, be strictly
enforced.
For information, apply—
MACDONALD’S International Dramatic Agency,
64 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
General Agent for Mr. Williamson;
LYNCH & MACDONALD, Solicitors, Market-square,
Collins-street, Melbourne.
rp H E AVENUE,
RECREATION AND PIC-NIC GROUNDS
OF THE
LANE COVE RIVER.
Steamers leave Lime-street Wharf, foot of Erskine-
streot, daily, as per Time-table.
THE LARGEST RECREATION GROUND about
Sydney, with most beautiful Scenery and Shade.
SWINGS, SEE-SAWS, CRICKET, QUOITS. BOWLS.
A SPLENDID PAVILION FOR DANCERS, with
BAND MUSIC, and SPECIAL STEAMERS
every Saturday and Holiday.
Admittance on above days, including return passage
per Steamers, Is. 6d.; Children under twelve years, 9d.
Admittance on other days. Is.; Children, 6d.
Tickets to be shown at the Entrance.
TEMPERANCE REFRESHMENTS, Tea, Coffee, Ac.,
supplied at moderate rates.
Special arrangements made for Schools and Societies
by applying to N. Joubert, Lime-street Wharf.
WEvery endeavour will be made to give satisfaction
to pleasure-seekers,—the sale of intoxicating drinks
being strictly prohibited, and disorderly or troublesome
persons expelled or punished.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, GEORGE-STREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS.
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS,
FASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12a 6d.
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK ,
AjSJX) A PERFECT FIT GLTABANTJEEX).
MEBICAN CUT PAPE
MADAME DEMO
Perfect Fitting
Newest styles every mail from P
Pull directions and illustrations wi
MADAME DEMOKEST’S public
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, grat:
MISS LOUISA H
87 King Street, Sydney (two doo]
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-stn
T
HE NEW SOUTH WAL]
COMPANY.
WM. CHS. HARDING, in succee
of Geo. L. Lineker, begs to inform
will carry on the same under the
hopes by strict attention to busin
moderate charges, to retain and inc:
so liberally bestowed on his predece
W. C. H. also begs to state that
services of the late proprietor, who
perienced and stylish London CUT!
of the Cutting Boom, and act aa
during his absence on Country roun
JJ AYE YOU
TO
R. MORPH
233 Pitt Stre
LISE’S PAPER CUT
All communications to be a
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET, S
Six doors from George-
Orders for Patterns cannot be e:
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns
style, cut, and finish, being modelled
Fashions, and are always sent pei
receipt of stamps or money order.
161
(Neaj
M ADA IV
I Paper Patt
Mantles, e
sizes for
ren furnia
tions and
ing up. £
ing from
styles monthly in WEIGEL’!
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by p<
annum, post free. Catalogue
Patterns sent to any part of the
of price and measure. Postage £
Address:
MADAME WEI
161 King-street, Sydi
*
lined by a solid mass of standing and reclining spec-
tators. A few, a very few, well-known faces were
observable flitting about here and there, but the bulk
of the audience consisted of Kent-street counts and
Baldock's lane barons. On Saturday, however, there
was a sprinkling of a better class of people, the rays of
the ginger-beer-bottle-chandeliers lighting up many a
pretty female form, and reflecting the black or azure
light of many a pair of flashing orbs. This much we
may truly say—the proceedings were as orderly as
could possibly be expected under the circumstances;
though whether this tranquillity of demeanour on part
of the young bloods who wero present was due to their
own delicate sense of the proprieties or to the presence
in the tent of a large body of police is best known to
themselves. With our usual good nature, we will hang
our harp upon the former willow. And we may remark
that, taken all round, the affair was a distinctly moral
show when compared with a certain down-the-harbour
picnic.
* *
But, with all this gorgeous splendour of flaring
gas and flaming torches, there were yet portions of the
huge canvas upon which no gas-light gleamed nor tow-
flame flickered. In one dark comer, while endeavour-
ing to obtain a coign of vantage from which we could
in comfort feast our eyes upon the graceful forms of
the 'witching walkists, we came upon three young men
huddled together in the dust, and fast asleep. We
didn't disturb them. We thought that, perhaps, they
might be full of troubles. We hoped they were not
full of beer I In the centre of the tent was the bar—
formed like a hollow square; and within its enclosure
were Messrs. Thatcher and Moore, ready to defend
their liquor with their lives. To the left of the bar was
a wild beast show, in a small tent by itself. The pro-
prietor was outside, and we were beguiled into entering
on beholding him take off his coat and announce his
intention of at once going in and placing his head in
the tiger’s mouth. We had no sooner gone in than we
regretted it. It was the mildest menagerie that has
been known since Balaam (the original showman) tra-
velled with his ass. We saw at once that the proprietor
of the show was “ a have." We have not tho slightest
doubt in the world that he could have got tho tiger’s
head into his mouth, but he could no more have got his
bullet-like capuf into that of the untamed terror of the
African jungle than he could have repeated the Niceno
Creed or refused a whisky-and-soda.
• # *
The tiger was, however, a pretty little animal —
and, if tho prioe asked for him is not too exorbitant, we
shall be glad to purchase him for a foot-warmer. Such
is the meanness inherent in human nature that, having
been "had" ourselves, we entered into a conspiracy
with the management, and such others of the defrauded
public as happened to be in the tent at the time, to
“ have ” others. Thus, when the Van Amburgh of the
show gave tho word, we yelled “ Take your head out of
his mouth I " in voices of agony, and joined with the
rest in imploring him not to risk his precious life—he
all the while being seated on a monkey-cage and smok-
ing a short pipe with an appearance of great enjoyment.
This ruse had tho effect of drawing in a considerable
section of the gore-loving public, who, however, observ-
ingthatno mutilation appeared to be on the programme,
left after a few moments in high dudgeon, invoking sul-
phur on the monkeys and big-D-ing the bear. That show-
man was full of resources, and ought to get on in life;
for, as we went out, we saw him haranguing the crowd,
holding in his hands a huge joint of beef, assuring them
that the ferocious beasts were just being fed, and that
the morsel of bnllock he held aloft (about 35 lb. weight)
consisted of the tiger’s ordinary lunch.
• « •
Dotted about near the repository of these phe-
nomena pf the forest and the prairie were the usual
speculators with the games of skill which no skill can
compass, and games of chance which no luck can com-
mand success in. The retired missionary who runs the
racoon "fake" (a brother of one of the tournamental
" ladies " was in earnest conversation with the reduced
baronet who benefits a godly public by instructing them
in the mysteries of three-card monte; while hovering
in their immediate vicinity we recognised the " canary
sweep" and the ring-and-jack-knife speculator. None
of these gentlemen were at that time present in their
official capacities, and we have only mentioned their
presence in order to let our readers sea that we were,
at any rate for once, in genteel society.
• • «
The management not having provided in their
hippodrome a stand of any kind, on which persons
paying a supplementary fee could perch and gloat on
loveliness, it was with some difficulty that we struck a
place from which we could obtain a decent view of the
“ladies” whose tournament we are chronicling.
Fairly fixed, however, we commenced to enjoy our-
selves. To the left of ms was tho scoring platform,
upon which stood eight dingy men—one to each per-
former; Miss Azella and three of tho others having
changed their minds about starting, prior to the com-
mencement of the proceedings. At tho time of onr
advent, as the manager triumphantly announced in the
Evening News, “ all the ladies were on the track."
We had, therefore, every opportunity of admiring the
“ rich and appropriate attire " which, it had been an-
nounced, would bedeck the undulating forms of the
air athletes.
• # *
The first lady wWattracted onr attention was
a tall, determined-looking damsel, ol apparently some
50 odd very severe winters. Her cheeks were drawn,
and her countenance was stamped with an austereness
bordering upon the threatening. Her figure was like a
top-boot—-the same size all the way down, and bar
Cinderella-like feet were encased in galoshes, the
"number” of which seemed to be large thirty-sixes.
Her "rich and appropriate attire" consisted of a
brown wincey robe, made on the " straight-up-and-
down” principle, richly vandyked with red satteen;
—or cotten braid, we forget which and her
head boasted no other covering than that
afforded by her raven tresses, which, however—hut—a
chord on the banjo—thanks 1—
Oh, would it be a grievous sin
To hint that these dark locks were thin ?
Ah, no, indeed I—the Pates capricious
Dole out but little of what's precious.
And what could be more precious— what
Than that sweet angel's black top-knot t
This lady, a gentleman in our rear (whose appearance
seemed to denote that when he was not composing
poetry he was composing bread) informed us, “ was a
winnin’ of it in a bloomin’ canter," which was valuable
information, as otherwise we should not have believed
it. She was travelling, wheniwe saw her, at the rate of
about two miles an hour, and feeding herself the while
from a plate of maizena which her “ trainer " carried
in his right hand, while his left clutched " something ”
in a soda-water bottle. To contemplate this angular
sylph painfully dragging one foot after another round
and round that dusty track, long after she was ex-
hausted, was a spectacle—which, however elevating it
may be in the abstract, we have not the intellect to
appreciate. And yet her performance appeared to find
great favour with a portion of the refined and aristo-
cratic audience. The more the weary woman limped,
the louder they applauded; and when a whisper got
abroad that her " left foot was gone,” their enthusiasm
bordered on the uproarious. She was also continually
urged to further exertion by cries from her admirers,
such as—" Wade in, old nn;” "You’re in it, old
toucher,” and other flattering evidences of encourage-
ment and esteem. The object of their admiration
didn’t take much notice of it, though. She slouched
along mechanically, taking in maizena like a collier
taking in coal, and keeping her melting gaze fixed upon
the board. Only once did she allow her womanly
feeling to ooze out. Someone, as she passed, said—
" Wallace is out again;” whereupon she turned her
head and yelled, “Let her come out! Mach good it
will do her !" in a voice that was a cross
between a fog horn and a steam whistle.
So, evidently, not even the chaste and soothing
influences of pedestrianism aro sufficient to ensnre an
entente cordiale amongst ladies whose elevated sphere
of life would naturally lead one to expect that they are
as much above bickering as they are superior to the
common herd. Noth withstanding her comparatively
mature age, and the success she has exhibited in get-
ting over ground and getting through maizena, we
understand that this is the “oldnn's” first appear-
ance in the cinder arena. Perhaps an occasional flutter
on the track, and the coin accruing thereto, may help
to eke out an income derived from wood-carting, but
we don’t think, after all, there are many “ millions in
it." We consider that in walking this lady is wasting
her sweetness on the desert air. Our advice to her is
to emigrate at once to the county of Kent, in England.
She would realize a handsome independence there, by
by letting herself out as a hop-pole. And, in order to
start her, we don’t mind purchasing, at a fair figure.
the "rich and appropriate attire ” she walked in. It
will come in handy for the hired girl on washing days.
* * «
The second on tho road to victory (and glory)
was a masculine bouri in a black satin polonaise, upon
whom, at the start, the betting (if ever there was any
betting—which we very much doubt!) was three to one.
This lady, who, we understand, is by profession a
blanchisseuse has entered the pedestrian arena
before, and ran, we believe, a very scientific second to
Azella—which lady, by the way, favoured us with an
epistle in which she disclaimed all intention of entering
for the tournament whose salient features we are new
endeavouring to airily record. Our friend in the satin
rig went splendidly until Saturday night, when, all of a
sudden, she became as lame as one of Andy Lynch’s
Parliamentary discourses. She was, however, assidu-
ously supported by her trainer, and we may take this
opportunity of remarking that throughout the proceed-
ings all the trainers were assiduous in supporting in a
like manner their fascinating charges. This, to the
initiated, was a very refreshing picture; since it placed
those gentlemen in the honourable position of, at least
once in a life-time, supporting a woman. The lady of
whom we are writing had the second prize secured
from the commencement, and, indeed, made certain
(as the betting indicated) to carry off first plunder—
but to use her own expression, “ She was ‘ knocked ’ to
find the old Duchess such a sticker." We congratulate
this lady upon her success from the bottom of our
hearts; and if she will look round when she has a few
minutes leisure, we will see what we can do for her in
the shirt and collar line.
• • •
Perhaps the most amusing figure amongst the
lady athletes was a fleshy young woman, who was
successful in gaining the “beautiful gold locket ” for
superiority of costume. Her dress was a delicate com-
bination of light blue and pink, in which she looked
like the “lady” companion of the "lord” who ac-
companies, in London, the Jack-in-the-Green on May-
day. This young person made no effort whatever to win
the prize, but was content to come out at night like a par-
ti-coloured owl, and make quick spurt s rt uud the track,
to the great amusement of such of the unsoaped as had
the honour of her acquaintance. This lady was consi-
deredby her companions in glory to "put on an adjective
sight too many suphurous ‘ frills,' ’’ and on that
account didn’t “ hit it" with the rest. So fai as we
are concerned, however, we can only applaud her for
exhibiting a just and proper pride. If it were our good
fortune to keep an oyster-saloon in Sussex-street, we
wouldn’t speak to every one, we can tell you !
• « *
Another perambulating charmer (who is a bar-
maid in her natural state) appeared in a low dress, and
exhibited an amount of collar bone which would have
struck envy into the heart of a saw-mill. Her attire
may have been “ appropriate," but, to the uninspired
gaze, it didn’t seem very “rich.” It was, however,
exceedingly short in front, and as she exhibited a laige
extent of stocking, her popularity was at once secured.
Had she only snipped another couple of inches off the
bottom of her skirt, the enthusiastic spectators would
have got up a subscription for her on the spot, and
most likely carried her into the bargain. They would
have certainly chaired her.
• • •
One of the competitors came out in a “ rich and
appropriate costume’’ which consisted of a long black
alpaca dress and a three-and-ninepenny straw hat.
This lady, we are given to understand, is a very dis-
tinguished member of society indeed, but we are not at
present at liberty to disclose her exact rank to a title-
loving public. Let her, however, stand as a Bendigo
baroness out of luck in ibis sketch. If that doesn’t
suit her, we will, at once, invest her with the diamond
insignia of the "T.W.K.” Onr straw-hatted friend
didn’t average 25 miles a day, so was carefully out of it
from the jump. We suppose, therefore, that her lady-
ship walked to either advertise her charms, or to show
off her “ rich and appropriate attire."
* # #
By far the neatest of the lot was a little girl
who was “ looked after ” by a long party, the cast of
whose features stamped him as being a lineal descend-
ant of Aaron. His charge appeared in black until
Saturday, when she bloomed forth from a grub into a
butterfly, jumping into a dainty pink gown that caused
quite a sensation in the aristocratic arena She wore a
spray of flowers in her hair, walked gracefully, and was
altogether a very comely young creature. Then there
was another one in circus-fleshings, a jockey sash, and a
nondescript skirt; and yet another, whose chief char-
acteristics were a switch and a large amount of
" cheek." Viewed collectively, the lady athletes would
have looked exactly like a lot of servant girls en travesti
—had they not dispelled the illusion by working so hard.
On Saturday night there waa a tremendous
roll-up, as it was expected that the match would be
decided at 11 p.m., and the fair winner “ invested with
the diamond cross.” As an instance of how many
people will flock to see women in one of her most de-
grading—we mean, of course, most elevated—phases, it
was stated that no less a sum than £590 was taken at
the door on that day. This shonld be interesting in-
telligence to those holy men who have already given ns
Gospel Tents filled with puritanical "pitches," and
Coffee Palaces stocked with moral waitresses. They
should be convinced now that what the Sydney Mitt.
terms their "stout-hearted philanthropy," no longer
requires to be exorcised. All we want, to render onr
reputation for civilization (and its consequent morality)
complete, is the importation of a few Spanish torreadores,
and the legalization of the manly sport of dog-fight-
ing. To the great delight of those interested in the
limp and limping ladies who were painfully trailing
over the cinders, it was given out that the agony would
be prolonged over Monday, as, in consequence of the
wet weather, a day had been lost at the start. This
decision, it was announced, had been arrived at in con-
sequence of a protest having been entered by Miss
Wallace and Miss St. George, who were “ placed"
second and third respectively, to the effect that only
five out of the six days had been completed. This
objection waa most generously allowed by the manage-
ment, and another haul was thus carefully secured for
Monday. It may be remarked that the fact of the
protest to be entered by the ladies aforesaid was, from
the commencement of the “ tournament," about as big
a secret as the approaching issne of the Milbnrn Creek
enquiry; but notwithstanding this, the announcement
that the protest had been favourably entertained by
Messrs Wade and Turner (acting on the advice of " a
lafge number of sporting authorities"—whoever in
thunder they were !) was received with many exclama-
tions of delight by the ladies’ “butt oners," and their
respective friends, followers, and adherents We would
doubtless have yelled onr approval also, but our mouths
wore too full of cinders and our lungs too full of smoke
to allow of our exhibiting mnch enthusiasm. A breath-
less universe will be relieved to hear that, on Monday
night, the result of . thislrefined entertainment was as
follows:
miles, laps,
Wallace 246 0
Phillips 243 9
St. George 192 10
Walker 182 5
Page 164 0
Anderson 164 0
O’Brien 146 0
Nicholls 134 0
As we quitted the porgeons hippodrome for the
last time, we marked the Othello-like form of Edwards,
the pedestrian, “on the doors." We wish to pay this
gentleman a compliment for the open and hearty man-
ner in which he invited criticism upon the chaste and
elegant contest of which he was one of the inspired
promoters. As we feel, on this account, that we are in
Mr. Edwards’s debt, we cannot do less than publicly
acknowledge that he can get over ground faster than
any man in the colonies. The greatest feat he ever
accomplished, though, was about a year and a half
(more or lees) ago, when he did the run to Dnbbo, after
the Bathurst tournament, in train time. This wonder,
fnl performance exercised the inha'i itants of the City of
the Plains in no small degree. Yet, strange to say,
Edwards never returned there to receive their congratu-
lations and a testimonial. Evidently modesty is an
affliction with William!
• • •
And so ended the “ ladies’ ” go-as-yon-pleaae
"tournament,” with its alluring concomitants of
sweating sylphs and howling hoodlums; its army of
Knights of the Spoon and Chevaliers of the Soda-water
bottle. We wonder when humanity will be again bene-
fited by the exhibition of such another elevating
spectacle. Not yet, we hope; or we shall he getting
too high-toned. Let’s have a dog fight for a change I


Hotels, &e.
The compagnoni catei
OP PITT-STREET have mu
noancing to the public, that to remt
want of space to accommodate their
Luncheon hour, they have convei
Banqueting Hall into an additiona
which is now open, and where eye
directed to visitors patronising this
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a supeno
is under the management of a first-c
branch of Catering undertaken, anc
stall of experienced and polite waite
Through continued misrepresents
beg to mention that they are not in
with any other person, or persons, n
SAMUEL PAC!
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity CJateeing
315 GEORGE STEI
(late Harris’ Cafd, opposite Peap
A superior CAPE and BESTAURA
REFRESHMENT BOOMS I
and for
Gentlemen accompanied b
The GREAT WEEDING CAKE El
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cak
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest d
GUARANTEED that no dangerot
or ingredient of any kind in j urious t
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and manageme
Balls, Banquets, Dinners W eddings,
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demo:
Civil and attentive waiters always
CHA S. E. S
MANAGER.
F
OLET’S NATION
BRIDGE STBEE
(Opposite BuiiLbtin C
R. W. FOLEY, PROP®
BOARD AND RESID
Wines and Spirits of the cho
BILLIARDS.
Money
NION LOAN AND DISCOI
OFFICES: 760 GEORGE STEI
3 doors from A. Hordern i
Hours —9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PEI
security, payable by in-telments, as
£lO by weeklv instalments of
15
20
25
SO
50
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTIC
To borrowers not able to transact
day, the offices will be open Monday
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET. 1
3 doors from A. Hordern
T
0 SMALL FREEHOLD A*
proprietors
MONEY LENT on mortgage of
of frem £5 to £5OO. upon the wet
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent ©n deposit of deeds, w:
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION L(
and DISCOUNT COMPANY. 760
market.
ONDON
MORTGAGE,
DISCOUNT BAN
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUT
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED II
SPECIAL NOTIC
The Directors place before those d
advantages upon easy terms—UNl
advantages. Their method of tram
highly commended, CONCESSIO.
which no other office holds out.
atwaNCES MADE
Hotels, &c
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUAI
AND CASE.
AGtE IS T—Q EORGI
BRiDGE STREET CHJ
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs t.
that owing to the increasing demai
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATEE
Although the principal business
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retai
WINES IN LARGE BULK anc
TRADE.
«r Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of the
io act in conjunction with Mr.
Sydney, he feels confident that, w
the above-named two experiem
favours will bo attended to with tJ
tnde.
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES,
Mangle and
vrlager, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STEI
T
HE A U S T
••HOME” SHUT'
AMERICAN LOCKS'
SEWING MAC
EXPRESS]
OSS d
2$
*
&
£
Hotels,
Hotels, Sec.
R» Bi ri o^iA M rlT s?l2lx. HOTEL ’
A* 1 WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
•tt THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND POETEE,
THE ue l 8 pER bottle.
mrsH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS. 4s per BOTTLE,
D 4lO all round.
v B -Cockbnrn’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English. Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the beat
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
DSFGAS
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated i
WOLFES I
SCHNAPPS
The PußESiSTiifluiftNi
The ttiune of M. MOBS & 00.
la on every Genuine Bottle
The BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOEE KEEFE
MEECHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B!
iioKjrs
Hlrnd
LND
frttnCllJ
It is of the utmost importance th
bottle should be carefully compared
are being imported into New Sou
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevera
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of LO
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND (
AGENTS.
F
martin a
AUSTRALIAN WINE MI
AND BEEE BOTT!
105 PITT STEEE'
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN £
Prices from 12s to 42s pt
ALBUEY WINEI
EED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbec
HUNTEE EIYEE W!
Claret
Lambrusoat
POET MACQUAEIE T
Burgundy.
■JIALLON’S PRIZE ALI
r is not the clearness or conditio
Ale that preserves this brand
nation. Common bitter crude been
but no other brand has the same nn
ter, the fulness on the palate, am
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Cc
tore cautioned against traders whc
extra profit represent the common
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J
CO., Sola Agents.
SSAR
B
OAR'S HEAD
)h ; s favount w : ran
8 T O
Is selected 'with great care from th
lugs of the celebrated firm of AE'
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cam
To be Procured Everj
J E. CATTEL
October 8,1881.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Tha Buenos Ayres Standard says : Madaraa
Camilla Urso carried her audience by storm recently
at the Quartette Society’s concert. Competent j edges
say she is the best violinist, man or woman, boy or girl,
ever heard here. She was applauded to the echo, and
three times recalled after one piece. Madame de Yoss
sang two songs most charmingly, producing the loudest
applause; she has a very sweet voice and an excellent
style Professor Pepper at Maryborough (Q ) It is
said that before long Melbourne theatres will be lighted
by the electric light Another young Australian lady
will shortly make her apiiearauce on the stage, selecting
Svdney as the scene of her ddbtt t Wilson’s circus is
on its way from Port Darwin to Adelaide. The average
age of the Pollard “ Pinafore" kids is thirteen
Kims’ new adaptation from the French, called “ Plats,”
lately produced at the London Criterion, is pronounced
by the critics to be a failure. The fun is described as
being purely pantomimic Fred Marshall opens at
the Princess’s, Melbourne, in a few weeks. He is having
the place gorgeou-ly done up, and Gordon is painting
the scenery. Fred va.vs that he wishes to make it the
counterpart of the London Gaiety. In order to sncceed
in this, onr little friend will either have to pull the
Melbourne honse down, or bnild another theatre on
thereof Wilhelmj has been playing at Dubbo, and
was booted because ho would not respond to an encore.
He is engaged for a farewell concert in Melbourne;
after which they return to America, where Mr. Dull
may console himself as best ho can for the pecuniary
fiasco of his venture, and Wilhelm] will have leisure in
which to satisfy his conscience at having taken £6O a
night. when very often there was not £3O in the house.
Mr. Charles Burford took a benefit at the Theatre
Koval, Graft m, recently. He and others, the remnants
of the Sara Howard and Harry Simmonds troupe, are
still in Grafton Ashton’s Circus was at Temora on
October 3 A benefit for the veteran dramatic author.
Mr. Madison Morton, author of “Box and Cox,” and
about a hundred well-known and popular farces, is fixed
to take place early in November, at The Adelphi, London.
Mrs. Keely, the c deb rated actress, has offered to
appear in “ Betsy Biker,” her original character, for
this occasion The sister of G. V. Brooke, playing
under the stage name of Miss Grace Clair, intends
shortly to visit these colonies. Her line is light
comedy .....GeorgeLeyboume (Champagne Charlie) has
given up his carriage and pair, and does not have to do
six “turns” a night at the popular music halls. Sic
transit gloria muncli Little Jenny Lee, “Jo,” has
sailed for Australia. She will not get “ Bleak " houses
here. But Georgina Smithson has made a great part of
Jo,” and is to open at the Queen’s about the end
of this month, so Jenny will be a trifle late.
Here is a cruel fact! There will be no panto-
mime at Drury Lane this year! Barry Sullivan’s
son, Amory Sullivan, has taken Baldwin’s Theatre, San
Francisco. Barry played through the States about
two years ago, so that his magnetism there will not be
so strong as to keep him from Australia, it he has an
inclination this way. The memory of Sullivan is kept
alive in Melbourne and Sydney, and it is no exaggera-
tion to say that he would be more attractive here than
any living star, except Irving Kathleen Irwin, the
original Rosa D.irtle in the late Andrew Halliday’s
adaptation of “Divid Copperfleld," will appear shortly
in Melbourne, after her tour in America Gilbert is
engaged upon an opera, in conjunction with Sullivan,
founded and slightly altered from the terrible
melo-drama of the “Seven Clerks,” which was
rather of a night - mare - giving nature
“ Diplomacy” is a great success at 'Frisco Engdnie
Legrand is in San Francisco, and according to a Cali-
fornian paper, “is an actress of the Bernhardt type,
end was an associate of Sarah’s for years 1" This is,
i news to ns Emilie Melville was announced
, r..n at T.VvjKm, in “Patience," on Oct. 1 In
A "erica, a new operatic absurdity, “Jonah in the
Wualo,” ! ■'R not been a great success. Jonah conld
not v meat the operation with the whale, for he didn’t
F'' ■’ The rumour as to a big theatrical divorce
in London refers to Mrs. Charles Terry, who is
i'a, a t the London Lyceum Theatre under her
maiden name. Miss Ellen Terry, and who has been often
msnnoned latelv as the Desdemona of the Booth-Irving
engagement. There will, probably, be a double suit,
for Mr. Irving is also married, and it is no secret that
lie has not lived with his wife for several years. Pro-
bably, if they are both relieved from their present
bonds, Mr. Irving and Miss Terry will marry each
other. “ I cannot,” remarks a press correspondent,
“say anything for the morality ef such an arrange-
ment ; but, artistically, it would be a good thing for all
concerned,” This is from a N.Y, paper, so its sure to
be true.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Mr. Walter Reynolds produced at the Queen’s
Theatre, on Saturday night last, his drama, “Tried and
Inie.’ in which he enacted the part of Lord Fitz-
eustaco In presenting this kind of play at the little
hoiu'• in Tork-street, Walter has shown himself to be an
ast, o young gentleman, for it seems that the audiences
wb eh patronise that temple of the drama require more
sensation for their shilling than is embodied in any of
the tragedies of the "divine Williams.”
* • •
Walter’s drama, looked at from a literary point
of vow is inferior to those of Shakespeare. Itis,in truth,
litt'emore than a series of effective scenes strung toge-
ther for the purpose of evolving sensational pictures and a
a'artling denouement. That there is very considerable
dramatic skill evinced in the construction of “Tried
and True ” is undeniable; the conclusion of the third
act, where Mother Wrigley denounces the heroine as
having been a felon, being quite a master-piece of con-
structive ability. There are, however, many other
scenes in the drama which resemble portions of other
plays with which we are familiar—notably in the fourth
act, where, however, Mr. Bevnolds has the honesty (rare
enough in these days of Merritt- and Pettitts) to acknow-
ledge that he is indebted to “La Dame aux Camelias "
for the principal picture, with which the act closes.
The dialogue, though on the whole crisp and lively,
affects the mechanical construction of the drama in
the sense of our seeming to have heard parts of it else-
where. The talk, however, in which Mr. Reynolds's
characters indulge completely “fetches,” it is but fair
to state, the downstairs part of the house, many of
Walter’s wheezes completely convulsing the pit, and
causing the stalls to forget, in their merriment, the
suotion of the inevitable orange.
* * m
The piece, which is in five very short acts,
might, with advantage, be compressed into three
moderately long ones—though, in making this sugges-
tion, we fear that we shall be running counter to the
already expressed dramatical opinions of Mr. Larry
Foley. There are many incidents in nearly every act
which are true to nature, and there are, in a like man-
ner, many that are not true. lu some parts of the
play, the action was a little vague and unconnected,
and certainly many of the characters turned up at
times and places in a manner that was a little confus-
ing. Mr. Reynolds, however, claims for “Tried and
T'rue" what we are perfectly willing to allow him
lie says that it is written to draw, and it does draw
At the Queen’s Theatre the legitimate, even if the
twelve apostles appeared in “ Macbeth,” with St.
Luke in the tide role, would not pay salaries. The
people must either have comic opera, with the 7th
commandment trembling in the balance all through it,
or else plays of the “Tried and True” school all
suicide, robbery, gore, and graveyards. Comedy—high
cites comedy—it is, at the present time, impossible to
cater in Sydney, for the simple reason that there are
no performers capable of adequately interpreting it.
Mr. Reynolds, therefore, exhibits sound common-sense,
from a financial point of view, in providing the public
with the sensational element, and that his efforts to
plea re are appreciated, is seen by the fine houses he
has drawn since his first appearance.
• • •
The acting—taken all round — was excellent,
the company evidently doing their utmost for the
popular young author-actor’s dramatic creations. Mr.
Be.l nolds has not very much to do in the piece—playing
a swell of the “ Dundreary " school, who only appears
fit intervals, and doeen’t stay long. He was very
t neceesful. however, in pleasing the audience, and was,
on the night we saw the play, twice called before the
curtain. He dressed the part in great taste, and looked
immense. Mr. H. Stoneham made rather a feeble
Geoffrey Landfern. He had many good opportunities
w bioh he missed, and he dressed the part of a " gentle-
man” in a black suit and a snuff-coloured overcoat—a
rig which caused him to bear a striking resemblance to
a bailiff. Mr. G. Melville did the little he had to do
respectably, and Mr. \V. Arrowsmith’s Ply Jemmy
managed to sink Mr. W. Arrowsmitb’s identity
deeper than usual. Mr. Haygarth made quite
a success as Mr. Burton, a drunkard of
the Eccles type, and when he said in the
first act “My month’s so dry that I’ve been
spitting shirt-buttons all the morning,” he re-
ceived quite an ovation from the pit—a fellow feeling,
doubtless, making the uncombed feel wondrous kind.
Mr. J. P. O’Neil, as the old thief-training woman was very
fine—his make up being quite phenomenally ingenious.
A comic policeman was played by Mr. Sweeny, and it is
fortunate ho only appeared in the first act, since his
performance, had it continued through succeeding acts,
would have very much militated against the success of
the piece. Wo are surprised at an actor of Mr.
Sweenv’s_ intelligence playing any part out of an harle-
quinade in such an outrageously burlesque fashion.
Had lie merely spoken his lines, and thrown in a dash
of quiet humour, he would have been effective; as it
was people kept on looking at the wings as if in
momentary cxoectation of the arrival of the pantaloon.
Mr Newton Griffiths played the part of a wicked father,
and dressed it like a seedy waiter, and—however, as ha
is “ the celebrated English character-actor,” perhaps he
knows how to dress a part better than we can tall him.
He ought to.
• • •
Miss Marian Willis worked hard, and played
well ns the heroine, Helen Barton. The change, how-
ever, is too qnick for her in the second act, and she has
not. time to make up sufficiently (notably as to her arms
and hands) when representing the fine lady, after
having, such a little while before, impersonated the
Cinderc l'a-like slave. Her ejaculation—“ I will not clean
those boots 1” iu the first act got the “ boys” to an im-
mense extent, and whenever she fell (which occurs two
or three times in the play) the applause was loud and
long. Miss Marian Willis is deservedly popular, and a
harder working and more persevering little woman was,
we are sure, never seen on any stage. Miss Medway
made up and acted with surprising skill as Alice Eugg;
but we most certainly cannot compliment Miss Nelly
Montague upon her performance of Mrs. Eavenscroft,
her acting and enunciation of ordinary words being
painfully effected. It will suffice, in this instance,
however, to respectfully inform her that the word
“ extraordinary” is not pronounced extree-ordinary, and
that even a circular-saw voice can be somewhat modu-
lated with persistent effort. Miss Grace Henriques
played an old woman in the first act, in which she was
plain, and an angel in the second, in which she looked
lovely. If angels are only half as nice as she looks
“ over dar," we will secure a suit of fleshings, a pair of
wings, and a trumpet without delay.
* m »
“Tried and True,” with all its imperfec-
tions is an attractive play in its way, and we re-
commend such of our readers as love the mellower
drama, to pay the Queen’s a visit. Walter is an actor
who identified to public support on many grounds.
He is a living embodiment of intelligence nnd industry,
and with all our hearts we wish him the prosperous
career he undoubtedly deserves. Mr. Beynolds pro-
duces another of his pieces, an Irish drama, on Satur-
day, and, as it is as full of situations as John Davies is
of temperance maxims, it ought to draw a crowded
audience. We shall have something to say about it in
onr next.
** * *
“ Madame Favart ” is to be in the Theatre
Eoyal bills for two weeks longer, and then the Com-
pany go to Melbourne. Therefore those of our many—
but, there ! we won’t say anything about numbers as it
makes Alfred squirm so—readers who have not seen
this bright little production had better part their
“ sug ” at the box office, and have a time. We announced
Inst week that Mr. Edwin Kelly was to take Mr. Fred.
Mervin’s place in the opera, owing to that gentleman’s
bronchial affection. Fred has,however,rapidly improved
since, and now is almost recovered.
• * •
We are informed that Mr. George Musgrove
has not made very much money in this city, and we are
sorry to hoar it, since the spirit of enterprise embodied
in that young gentleman has been big enough to build
an English channel tunnel or bay up John Davies’s poli-
tical following. We suppose benefits will be the order of
the day next week; in which case George ought to
rake in the half-Jameses by the ton, and Fattie ‘ snavel ’
the pound notes by the bale.
• • •
We may mention in connection with this theatre,
that the civility and courtesy of the staff of ushers and
attendants contribute in a great measure to the comfort
of the audience. They—that’s to say the staff afore-
said—always smell sweat and look lovely.
** * *
Fred Maooabe is still jamming the School of
Arts every night, and as he can change his programme
at will, there seems to be no valid reason why he should
not emulate the example of the legendary brook—and
“ go on for evah." We are informed, on good authority,
that F wed Hiscocks has invested in new boots with cloth
tops and a fawn-coloured hat. This looks well. We
are also told that he is on the look out for a big sheep-
station. This looks better.
** * *
The Mendelssohn Quintette Club of Boston,
U.S , at the Masonic Hall, are doing the classical busi-
ness, and doing it well too. Their introduction to the
cognoscenti of Sydney was effected by Mr. W. H. Paling
on Thursday night last, at his music warehouse, and
nearly the same programme as was on that evening
performed was repeated at the Masonic Hall on Satur-
day before a large audience. On the latter and on
subsequent nights there was this difference, that Mr.
Eyan, the veteran of the Club, and Miss Cora Miller,
the vocalist who stars with them, took part. The forte
of the Club is undoubtedly their ensemble playing. The
members work together with a united intelligence and
feeling which, however largely endowed individual per-
formers may be, can only be expressed, in concertante
music, by musicians who have become accustomed one
to another. Nothing could be more delicious, for
example, than the rendering as a quintette of Boc-
cherini’s Minnet, how bo well known to Sydney audi-
enoes. The quaint and delicate prettiness of this
composition, with its peculiar rhythm and melodious
phrases, has never been so well brought out in this
capital as by the Mendelssohn Club.
» « *
Raff’s Mill-scenes were rendered in what may
be termed a graphic style. Both the movements
selected by the Club are descriptive. The Declaration,
and The Mill. In the first of these the violincello
makes love and the first violin answers back, while the
other instruments lend occasional aid to enrich the
passion of the passages, or fill the air with the murmur
of the_ leafage overhead, and the ripple of the stream.
The violoncello begins by remarking that really it is a
lovely evening, and that there is nothing more delight-
ful than to stroll at such a time listening to the voices
of nature. The violin whispers that it is indeed very
pleasant—to hoar the birds. Then the violoncello in-
sinuates that there are voices which, to its mind, are
sweeter than any birds. The violin, upon this, blushes
a good deal, and says gently, that no doubt the breeze
among the Autumn leaves makes a most melodious
i sound. Upon this the violoncello, after a moment’s
pause, harking to the sighing of the gentle airs and
the whispering of the rills, assents, and laments that
Winter must soon strip these melodious leaves, and
with furious blasts torture the groaning and unhappy
boughs and lash the stream into turbid wavelets.
At this the violin shivers a little on the fourth
string, and the violoncello, in a voice shaken by
emotion and Mr. Giese’s third finger, hints that he
knows a man whose life will be as bleak and
wintry as the scene he has described, unless
the blue heaven of a sweet girl’s eyes smile
always on him, and the soft melody of her voice ac-
company him through life. The violin hangs its
head—or at least it would only that Mr. Sehnitzer has
it tight by the neck—and says that ho doubt it would
be sad for the gentleman. The violoncello plncks up
its courage a bit, and in a deep voice inquires whether
the violin really feels for a fellow under such circum-
stances, and the violin says she would be devoid of
sentiment if she didn’t, and then remarks in a series
of rather stdccato jerks, that it’s really getting late
and her mother will be wondering what him become of
her. Then the violoncello frets hold of her hand, and
tolls her, with a gush of passion, that he is the chap
and she the maiden he meant, and would she —would
she have the heart to make him wretched for life P The
violin murmurs something inarticulate, and the ’cello
pursues its advantage with almost sobbing emotion and
earnestness, describing how he loves as never violin-
cello loved before, and how he had waited and hoped,
and all the rest of it. and winds up almost inarticu-
lately by asking whether the violin will love him a
little. Then that feminine instrument admits that she
will, she does. The ’cello sobs. The violin, with in-
creasing admiration, confesses that she has loved the
'cello ever since it brought its first load of rye to the
mill. The viola at this point gives several smacks,
pizzicato—or else our imagination filled them in. Any-
how, the affianced 'cello and violin go on mumbling and
cooing together, and the breeze flutters the leaves, and
the rivulet ripples; from afar the throb of the old mill
is heard now and again, till all dies out in silence, and
the audience drop their pocket handkerchiefs from
their eyes and begin to clap.
• * *
We haven’t time to describe the other move-
ment—the Mill; but we hope the Club will at an early
date give the following movement!: after an interval of
five years, when the violin catches the 'cello kissing a
viola housemaid, and discusses that situation. We
forget, however, that the Club have no bass with them
to do the Burgomaster, who discharges the parties
with a caution, and says that the man who lifts his
hand to a woman—and so on.
* * *
Excellent as are these performers as ensemble
players, their united standard is even surpassed by the
status of Herr Qiese, their violoncellist. To a full,
rich, and sympathetic tone, this artist joins an ac-
curacy of technique, which leaves nothing to be de-
sired. Mr. Schnitzer, whose name should be engraved
on every heart and every snuffbox, is a young per-
former of much promise, producing a tone limpid and
sweet, and having already made great progress in the
intricacies of manipulation. Mr. Ryan, the clarionette
player, is a soloist of the first rank. Mr. Schade, the
flautist, is a schade lower in the scale. His tone is
fairly good in slow movements. His digital execution
is very brilliant, but in quick variations, where extreme
intervals have to be taken in rapid alternation, the
tone almost disappears. Mr. Schade appears to have
fallen into the error, common to too many young
flautists, of striving for brilliancy and rapidity of exe-
cution before the lip has been properly trained. The
fingers are much easier to drill than the lip, and when
a young flautist fails to recognise this, he is apt to
strain and pnff and spit—so to speak—when he ought
to he rippling out passages with mellifluous ease.
** * *
Frank Cates takes a “ben.” at the Masonic
Hall on Monday, the 17th inst. Front seats are 7s. 6d.,
so the affair is likely to be rather high-toned. The
programme is to be an aesthetic one, and will consist of
songs and recitations. We trust Prank will once more
give us Hood’s “ Dream of Eugene Aram;" a bit
from “ The Bells ” would also be a good draw. Tickets
are selling rapidly, so there is sure to be a good roll-up.
Duncan Maccullum is the business manager.
** * *
“ Mother-in-Law ” and “ The Corsican
Brothers" extravaganza will bob up serenely at the
Gaiety, on Saturday night. Mr. Bayless has succeeded
in getting together (all things considered) a good team.
First, there is Dampier, whose popularity in Sydney
with the million, is as great as John Davies’s (confound
it! that man is always getting into our paper!) and
not half so mysterious. Then there is Miss Ada Adere,
Mrs. Kate Adere, mellifluous Marion Melrose,
bewitching Teresa Horan, gentle ditto, the
great Maggie Forde, lovely Letty Howarth, our own
dear “ Mrs. Jarley," and others. The men consist of
Dick Stewart, Frank Forbes, Barry Sullivan Brooke
Irving Boothman, J. H. Eainford, Harry Leston, a Mr.
Mr. Hannan Vane (who ever he is!) and Mr. Marion
Melrose—a thousand pardons—Mr. Harry Emmet.
This crowd can tackle “ Mother-in-Law ” to rights. It
may be casually remarked that all the ladies are pretty.
Why say more P
** * *
Mr. W. Le Couteur writes us to say that after
singing “Alas! those chimes,” the other night, at
Maitland, Miss Annis|Montague got 63 bouquets. Surely
he must mean 630. Business is immense, and would be
better, only the Maitland {esthetes will insist upon
paying their “ bob” to go in the pit, and smoking their
cigarettes, between the acts, on the dress-circle
entrance. The Turners return to Newcastle on the
10th, and open in “ Lucia di Lammermoor.” Mr.
Trevanion still acts in the capacity of Mr. and Mrs.
Turner’s secretary, and the advance billing and the
advance blowing is left to Mr. W. Le Couteur. And
we do not think it could be in better hands.
** * *
Our very own Georgina (let us for once leave
out the obnoxious Smithson) has come out as a poetess,
and has forwarded us the offspring of her muse. It
begins as follows:
“ Our Georgina, when on tour
Up country, met an amateur,
A new commercial, too, was he.
In speech and manners rather tree.
That he could act, he made appear.
In hotel bar, at Bendemeer."
This joker, it seems, offers to play for Georgia, a piece
of double-dved villany which the lady naturally resents.
As he persists, however, she crushes him with the
following:—
“ One of her troupe being lately dead.
You can play his part—’twill just suit you.
You’ll want no scudy, you’re quite perfect too —
'Tis my parrot, which, with Crusoe, used to grace
My entertainment; you can take his place.
The scene was changed, and thro’ the door.
Or first right entrance, exit amateur."
This is splendid. Georgina’s verse has the true Are of
the Parnassian grate. A lady who can pen verse like
this could write a tragedy or mend a clock. Send us
along some more, Georgie. We will pay the carrier.
Mark the bale, “Smithsonian Sonnets.” We shall
then know what to do with it. Our time is valuable,
you know.
** * *
Last week, through the eccentricity of a play-
ful compo., we were made to say that Mr. Mervin
sang the successful Tyrolean jodel, in the third act of
“Madame Favart.” This is, of course, an error.
Mr. Brennir is the tra-lala-ish warbler. The printer
alluded to was buried last Monday, and Eoseby is now
busily employed in chipping out the following epitaph
on his tombstone :
Here lies a comp., who made It seem
We lied;
We chided him (with crowbars), and
He died.
** * *
At Melbourne, Mr. Harkins (“Phoebus what a
name!”) the ter-ragedian, has made a successful debht,
we hear, as Hamlet, at the Royal. And the grandest
artist in the world —the most superlatively splendid
actor in the universe—the only Daniel, opened at the
Opera House as Narcisse. We hear that Mr. Bandmanu
is to be “ supported ” by Mr. Fairclough. Possibly,
however, Mr. F. may read the announcement with the
names reversed, the “World” has gone to Adelaide for a
fortnight. How this tremendous combination can af-
ford to do a trip for such a short time, is best known to
Bland. It is to come here, it seems, after the opera is
over. Our old friend Professor Anderson is still at the
St. George’s Hall, and the “Tambour-Major” midgets
at the Bijou are an immense hit. There is no kid about
this; but there are thirty-five about the Bijou.
** * »
Alice Eees and Liddiard have been playing in
“Maritana,” in Adelaide, and both being remarkably
pretty girls, the performance, as Alfred would say,
“ took well." “ Pinafore ’’ has succeeded Wallace’s
tuneful opera, with the Williamsons in the cast. Talk,
ing of and Miss Liddiard, it is generally con-
ceded that while they can sing for seraphim, neither
of them can act for second-hand pannikins.
** * *
Jim. South has been doing a big business up the
line with the “Pirates." He plays in Grafton the
middle of this month. All the troupe are in high
spirits—and as for the prima donna, you may de-Pender
alabaster brow is unfurrowed. James writes that he
would be perfectly happy if it were not for an unplea-
sant knack publicans have of putting turpentine
Walker’s Whisky bottles, and substituting
polish for Angostura bitters. Vernon Eeid has starSa
a collection of locks of ladies’ hair, and has now
ferent shades—the material they are tied with varvi ’
from packthread to cerulean satin.
** * *
Billy Hoskins isn’t married after all Kate
Douglas's sister was to have been the bride, but some
how the thing didn’t come off. So there is yet a show
for some blushing young charmer. uw
** * *
“The Mastodon Minstrels” are announced to
appear in Newcastle, shortly. We don’t know what
troupe this can be, since Wolfe and Lewis’s lot are in
Victoria. Surely, not a few niggers that W and L
left behind.
** * *
“ The Messiah ” was performed with great
ecldt at the Ashfield School of Arts, on Friday last
Mr. Halle well was in splendid voice, and his chest notes
were much admired. Mr. Hinchey was also very sue
cessful in the tenor part. Mr. Hallewell sang at
Bathurst, on Tuesday evening, at a grand concert. He
went by special arrangement with the Bishop; Mr. C.
J. Phillips, and Mrs. E. C. Franks, were also in it. The
proceeds were given to th j Cathedral School Fluid.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Oar evening contemporary of Saturday again
appeared aa an illustrated paper. This time it pub-
lished three portraits, the trio of pictures being
labelled “ Celebrities." By a wise precaution, the name
of each portrait was printed under the woodcut, and
thus we knew (nothing’ else would have convinced ns)
that the counterfeit presentments of Mr. Henry
Copeland, Charles Jules Guiteau, and Master W J
Frank wore before us. It is, of course, a distial
guished honour to have one’s portrait in the Evening
Alfred, and we have no doubt that Mr. Copeland will
feel flattered at finding himself in such distinguished
company. Asa work of art. Mr. C.’s portrait has
many points, and is no doubt a speaking likeness of
somebody else. With Guiteau, we have no personal
sympathy; at the same time, we think it rather mean
of Alfred to bring him out (his case being suh judice)
with an excoriated nose, and no pupils to his eyes—let
alone embellishing his countenance with a rash of
printers’ ink strongly suggestive of variola. The boy.
walker is a terror. And if he resemble his portrait,
we recommend his parents to slaughter him olf-hand’,
without delay. It will save the country a bar of soap
and a clothes-line. The artist and engraver, we ob«
serve, have modestly refrained from putting their
names to these works of art. This, after all, perhaps
is wise, since American axes are now selling for three
half-crowns. Mr. Copeland may perhaps think it a
compliment to be thus made famous; we can’t say
Master Frank’s little soul may be filled with joy to dis-
cover his diminutive “ mug ” in such a classical publi-
cation ; we can’t say. These are on the spot, and there-
fore can devastate or testimonialize—whichever way
the fit takes them. We, however, in that manly spirit
which was ever the characteristic of the Briton who
will ever take up the cudgels on behalf of an absent
and injured man,—in the name of Charles Jules
Guiteau, we emphatically, but respectfully, protest,
# # #
Last Thursday’s edition of the D.T., noticed
elsewhere, bids fair to become historical. In its Carcoar
telegrams it says:—"A new paper will be started at
Mount Macdonald about the 15th October by the pro-
prietress of the Carcoar Chronicle, Mrs. King.”
“ Mrs. King I" Why, what means this base announce-
ment ? Here, yon see, is where alien journalists fail.
They are guiltless of the knowledge oven of our cele-
brities. Thus is the flower of our literature given
another name! Thus is a coruscating provincial beauty
left out in the cold.
We are beginning to think, notwithstanding
some of the astounding specimens of journalism which
are published in the metropolis, that the moon shines
fuller in the country districts than in Sydney. In a
rustic retreat, called Wingham, there resides an “ in-
glorious Milton,” who contributes weekly to the
Manning Biter Times under the signature of
“ Gatherum ” His screed usually consists of desper-
ately-wonnded prose, but in the latest issue of the
Timfs to hand, he has blossomed forth into a full-
fledged bard of the Lewis Scott school. “ Spring ” is
the theme of his epic. He commences as follows : —
“ The Spring has arrived, ding-dong, ding-dong!
Birds of the for rest sing; ding-dong!
Little Bo-Peep has awakened from sleep,
And joined in the chorus; ding-ding-dong!
Joined in the chorus, ding dong."
And then:—
“ The sun sinks down in the West, bow-wow,
And night comes on apace, bow-wow;
When man goes to bed rats and mice come out.
Such, oh I such is Spring, you know, bow-wow;
Such, you know, is Spring, bow-wow."
Concerning this remarkable poem, our minds are con-
tiderably exercised We can’t quite settle to our
satisfaction which is the fitter subject for Tarban
—the inspired bard who wrote the piece, or the
gifted editor who put it in.
* * #
“ What! Tou a Judge, Jo?” said a Judge ;
“ This news the world will stun! ”
** No matter,” snapped the Fijian Knight,
I’m not a puisne one.”
• * *
The Sydney theatrical correspondent of the
Australasian is not in his usual health, poor fellow#
The following is an extract from his letter in last week’s
paper :—" ' Madame Favart ’ continues to attract
strongly at the Royal; and ‘ Fatinitza’ attracts weakly
(sic) at the Opera-house; and Mr Mrccabe attracts, as
he deserves to attract, overpoweringly at the School of
Arts.” He signs “ Baton.” If any of our correspon-
dents wrote like that, we should feel inclined to sign
baton too—on our correspondents.
* * *
She stood upon the pavement, and
The sun flashed on her tresses ;
She held a flower in her hand—
Of light blue print her dress is.
Her eyes are large, and bright, and blue ;
Her hands are small, but homy too,
And well cut is each feature’;
In short, she’s just the girl that you
Would call “ a pretty creature.”
“ Who art thou, oh, most gentle maid P ”
The white-haired missionary said;
” Thou hast a heav’nly face!
What humble sphere, my fair-haired dear,
Dost thou, at present, grace f
I prithee say what thou art called.
Lost I should be in error —”
'Twas then into his ear she bawled
“ I am the Kent-strebt Terror."
* * •
• • •
At a small place near Albury there is a lawyer
who improves each shining hour to the extent of dis-
posing of his clients in the morning, and disposing of
his eggs in the afternoon. A shrewd suspicion has,
therefore, got about, that he takes his fees in produce
—which he very likely does We knew a lawyer in
Sydney (we think he’s dead now), if his client hadn’t
Ye worthies of the Daily T.
That linger on our shore.
Who are ye, that have never heard
Of Mary of Garcoar ?
Ah, fresh he must be in this land.
But new chums all, we ween.
To dub our Mary “ Mrs. King.”
When she is Carcoar’s Queen I
Know, then, that she you have misnamed
A power’s on this soil
The Blayney people quiver at
The name of Mary Boyle.
At Garcoar she’s a terror, too.
At Milburn Creek—oh, my!
It’s—"Hush, here’s Mary coming: so
So you’d better mind your eye


Jfot the “ ready," would take anything. One day he went
into a weatherboard cottage “ on the rocka” to consult
with a client, and came out with a fender. When there
ia trouble amongst the boys in the Central Market, he
will take up the case for a bag of potatoes, and argue
■the point (later on) with his foot upon a case of lemons.
He’s been to the Quarter Sessions and got a woman off
for a pair of parlour curtains and a Dutch oven; and
would fight a District Court case with the fire of a
Sheridan and the ardour of a Coleridge, for half a
sheep, a couple of pumpkins, and a glass of “ Irish.”
Once a billiard-marker got into some difficulty about a
customer’s coat. Our legal friend was sent for, pending
the arrival of the customer. In four minutes after his
advent the little affair was settled. The customer
walked away, satisfied, with his money (which had been
“mislaid”) in his pocket, while the legal gentleman
stumped home delighted—with the billiard-balls in
his hat.
* ♦ *
This is a fact—impugn it whoso list. “ What
will you take to defend me, sir ? ” said a man with a
summons, to a lawyer, at a certain Water Police Court.
“Go in and get Is. worth of brandy, and we’ll talk
about it,” said the legal light. “ You’d better take
-this, then, sir, and get what you please,” said the client.
“Money’s no good to me,” sighed the lawyer. "No
good —why ? ” enquired the client. “ They won’t serve
me," replied the legal gentleman, with a groan.
* * #
Last Thursday’s D.T. is a startler. Under the
heading of “ Perth,” it informs its readers in a telegram
that “ Mr. Marshall Wood’s statue of the Queen is now
being erected in a conspicuous position at the north end
of King William-street.” This would doubtless be cor-
rect only for two things. In the first place, there is no
King'William-street in Perth; and, in the second, there
is no statue by Mr. Marshall Wood of the Queen there.
Immediately under this is the following information,
also by wire from Perth: —“ An amusing case occupied
the attention of the Police Court to-day. Alfred Ocean
Chambers, the well-known manufacturer, was charged
by Peter Campbell, described as a voluntary missionary,
for disturbing one of his meetings. There was much fun
elicited during the examination of Campbell. The case
was dismissed.” This would likewise be a vary valuable
item of news did it so happen that Peter Campbell was
there—but he wasn’t. Peter was then, and is at the
time we are writing, in Adelaide, S.A. If this sort of
thing is the result of moving into a public-house, the
sooner our penny morning contemporary publishes from
a sawmill the better,
* • #
A light dragoon in the advance guard of the
Salvation Army of South Australia called at a station
near Wilcannia, the other day, requesting shelter for
the night. “You may,” said the boss, “stop in the
travellers’ hut: the storekeeper will give you a pannikin
of flour and a bit of beef. I hope you’re not too lazy to
cook your own grub.” “Ah I ” said the traveller, who
looked somewhat hurt, “ I can bear this, too, even for
my Master’s sake.” " Who the h are you P’’ curtly
demanded the saltbush man. “ I am,” replied the meek
little soldier, “a boundary-rider in the service of my
Saviour.” Saltbush did not hear the last word dis-
tinctly, and he hissed out, “ You are ad impostor.
I know Desailly too well to believe that he ever mounted
a man on such a miserable mule as that! ”
* * *
A correspondent writes to inform us that a
friend of his at Watson’s Bay (a sea-faring man) has
had twins. We expect, however, that he must mean
the salt’s lady—but this is mere detail. He sends us a
poem on the subject, of which the following is a speci-
men stanza
** He’s father of a baby pair.
The first the Bay has seen.
And he would wish his joy tolsharo
With the Sydney Bulletin.”
He is very kind, but we are sorry to have to burst his
bubble of romance by informing him that we have
really no joy to ha've with him. Why, even when we
have twins ourselves, it’s as much as we can do to get
up an honest grin for a month after.
What I welcome kids with joy and glee,
’Tis madness we declare!
And this when boys’ boots, can’t you see,
Are six and six a pair!
Get joy with twins! why really this
Assertion does astound;
’Tis lunacy, when butter is
Still “one and ten” a pound!
Thou must be rich, if kids with thee
Act as great joy’s extractor;
'Tis plain to see that thou mutt be
A city works’ contractor!
* f «
The cricket ground at Wingham is, it appears,
in rather a bad condition, in consequence of the en-
croachments of cattle. The club’s new tools arrived
the other day, and the members turned out for a
match. Hardly had they commenced when the four-
footed contingent, glad of a little excitement, rolled up
in great force, and the blacksmith’s cow, by way of
taking a front seat, lay down in the very centre of the
wicket. When at length she was dislodged, it was dis-
covered that Jim the splitter’s retriever had run away
with the ball. After being chased by the entire club
for five miles over difficult country, they returned to
find a party of shearers running hack races over the
encket ground. Two hours of heated argument sufficed
convince the intruders that they were in the wrong •
and hardly had they departed, showering anathemas
upon the unfortunate club, than it began to rain. Since
tnis, the new bats and stumps have remained in their
Bags, and when Saturday afternoon comes round now,
„ 8 members cart their girls round and look at the
Bcenery.
* # #
The very latest aesthetic amusement out is
Mown by the name of " puncing.” It is of Lancashire
ongm, and its chief attracti n lies in the fact of its
J>eing equally well adapted for either the lady’s
ooudoir or the poor man’s cabin. “ Puncing” requires
i least two to play it properly, and the sexes of the
S r VT u,d he antagonistic. The male performer
I®—? off hy carefully twisting his wife's hair round his
after which he drags her four times round the
then dances on her face with a pair of hob-
• Jr. „ hluchers. His next move is to go to gaol for
9ti ,r T l ° u t here he could play the same game, and
1 u hawk round the contribution.box on Sundays.
general nown Australian John the Baptist, and
station w ° rrier ’ arrived some time back at a
straight fo, .^ eebung Ran & ea ( N Q). and went
with innv i th ® house. He was a tail, lank apostle,
1 ™ e J es - and a pair of jaws that were
which hi? 6 ™ 168 to beef aßd damper. The horse upon
sad had Wa if “ onn ted was shaped like a garden seat,
Portman(. a head ab®ut the size and shape of a small
entered rhe £ ood man turned his horse out,
tarried VaTaw? 8 ?? de welcome. For many days he
as a land d he was in was a good land, ay, even
for hi 9 and honey. At length, when the day I
able to had arrived, the squatter, not being
fresh ho«. the apostle’s umbrella-stand, gave him a I
that he had a <f(T Jhdeaway, happy in the thought
there was af , his host s conversion, and that
J l ® Sot dot™ * S? 11 ?® 1 towering in the distance. When
to the sonT?+ t 0 the evangelist wrote up
fervid i- npon various matters, and ended by the
We fonnd n3 '^^ 10ll, », < * ■f fervently hope that ere now you
<*l,® to the J^ U o A ,ew da y s afterwards, a wire
haven’t R JIZ B°od man, which ran as foUows:—“We
y °t>llwill^ > J lnyt Of Jesus since yon left, but if
®ena up his brands we’ll try and get hold of
him. He won’t he much use to you, anyhow." That
chapel isn’t built vet.
We are informed by the ’Frisco Evening Post
that “Sugar of a very fair quality is now made from
rags.” This, we suppose, is the reason why the critics
of the dailies find themselves able to supply taffy so
cheap. It is made of “ butter " and sugar.
V.
OUR PRISON SYSTEM.
By ONE WHO KNOWS.
It may be a bold assertion,but it is one quite capa-
ble of proof, that not a single individual has, ever since
the introduction of our present prison system, bene-
fited by the punishment, as a means of reformation,
but that, on the contrary, every one who has the mis-
fortune to dwell within the prison walls must—yes, ab-
solutely must, through contact, which means contamina-
tion-issue therefrom worse than when he (or she)
went in. I shall so clearly prove this, that if there
yet exists a thoroughly independent member in our
Legislative Assembly (barring Messrs. M’Elhone and
Buchanan, who have lost their influence through in-
consistency, unreliability, and roughness of manner)
he shall be compelled to demand, and public opinion
will enforce, a radical and speedy investigation into this
serious, national matter.
# * *
It is rarely that a man who is able to wield the pen,
and who has been reduced to a cipher in the social
scale after having sojourned inside Darlinghurst, cares
about discussing such a subject as this—because the
very thought of wasted days and months and years
makes him shudder, and disinclines him to call forth
the shadows of the past, from which he, however,
never can mentally flee. And were it not that I sin-
cerely believe that my revelations may cause justice to
be done where injustice is done now; that the principles
of prison jurisprudence may thereby be changed ; that
the judges may be influenced by my words; and, above
all, that the frightful contamination of youth which is
now going on will be effectually prevented—even I
would be silent. But though I now appear as a
denouncer (and I have had peculiar opportunities of
learning the secrets of the prison-house) I wish at once
to state that in no instance will I indulge in personali-
ties. Where persons have to be alluded to, and names
to be given in full, it will be but in instances where
public characters are involved.
* * #
It is not my intention to carry the reader with me
through the gates, into the cells, and delineate the
whole of the prisoner’s career. My aim is higher than
that. Such literature can be obtained else-
where. I must state that throughout my imprison-
ment I found no single case of predetermined tyranny :
the prisoners, as a whole, have not the least reason to
complain of personal discomfort. Indeed, to be truth,
ful, by far the larger portion are infinitely better
treated than they deserve. But the moral contagion
engendered is a thousand times worse than small-pox.
• * •
When the Comptroller-General, Mr. Harold Mac-
lean, in 1867 introduced the present prison system, he
enunciated three distinct principles. The first was
total separation for a certain period (now nine months)
as special punishment for all offenders who received a
sentence of three (formerly five) years, and classifica-
tion according to former convictions. The second was
a graduated scale of rations, by which men serving
short sentences —“minor offenders” as they may be
generally termed—should only get enough food to
enable them to live without injury to their constitu.
tions, while those who were to suffer long incarceration
were amply supplied. The third, and most important,
was a scale of remissions and extra-judicial punish-
ments —the former being all in favour of persona never
previously convicted, and the latter designed as an
efficient safeguard against offenders inside the prison.
* * •
Each of these principles is fallacious, as I shall
prove, and two of them, as practically carried out, have
been attended by awful and calamitous results.
* * *
Mr. Maclean is a humane man—nay, more, a
really kind-hearted one, and I have noticed
many proofs of this—but he erred in judgment
when he brought about a state of things that causes
an amount of evil, falsehood, hypocrisy, and finally
crime, which spreads afterwards through society as a
festering cancer. That he is paternally fond of his
favourite official offspring is as natural as that Charles
Dickens loved best his favourite literary child, David
Copperfield. But lam clearly of opinion that Mr.
Maclean has long ago discovered and to himself
acknowledged the defects in his scheme—just as a
fond parent discovers that the darling of his heart, for
whom he in childhood would have sacrificed the apple
of his eye, in early manhood possesses faults, not
vices, which it is then too late to dream of eradicating.
Moreover, I believe that, were it not for that
species of official pride so fatally existent everywhere,
which forbids the admission of a mistake, ho would
already have changed the prison rules based on two of
the above-noted principles.
• * •
I will first deal with what are termed long-sen-
tenced prisoners. Anyone who gets a sentence of three
years and upwards is sent to Barrima for nine months'
“separate treatment.’’ This is a severe punishment,
for it consists in being "absolutely secluded for that
period—or nearly so. It applies only to mala prisoners,
and notwithstanding the feeling of hate that is ex-
pressed among the prisoners against the gaoler, Mr.
William Small, I will bear testimony to his invariable
fairness. I ought to know about this as well as, if not
better than, the large majority. He has a violent
temper when roused by the use of foul language, and
he becomes then “ the man with the iron hand but
if a prisoner behaves himself, the gaoler is true kind-
ness itself, and in cases of illness not only generous to
a fault, but acts as both nurse and parent. I have seen
it more than once. After the prisoner has performed
his penance in Berrima, he is forwarded—if sentenced
to five years or over—to Parramatta; otherwise to some
other gaol—in nine cases out of ten to Darlinghurst.
And then begins the contamination. But I shall dwell
upon that when I come to the classification clauses.
* * *
The grand mistake in the separate system rules is
this—that it applies to the wrong persons—yes, alto-
gether to the wrong persons. It is perfectly correct, both
in theory and practice, that old offenders ought to be
more severely punished than such as have never sinned
before, and separate treatment for nine months is nn-
doubtedly no joke; but can anyone in face of my
experience tell me that it has in any instance
acted as a deterrent in the case of habitual
criminals ? Besides, many a man gets three years and
more, who has never seen the inside of a gaol before. I
did, and mine was by no means a heinous offence, only
the judge happened to] have the gout on that unlucky
morning. The effects that ought to be, and in fact
are, in the case of a first conviction, produced by
Berrima, are utterly eradicated afterwards: for as soon
as the prisoner is sent to another gaol he has perforce
to mix up with his fellows; and the younger and less
educated in crime the new arrival happens to be,
the more eagerly is he sought after, petted, instructed,
and “laid up to” by the “old hands.” Now, at the
very root of all prison systems I ever beard or read of,
lie Punishment and Reformation. Of these, which for
the benefit of society should be most encouraged ?
What is the motive of Punishment? Is it not in its
truest sense. Reformation ? Granted that to make it
deterrent is an object sought quite as much, have we
in this colony at present a chance of carrying that
object out ? I say emphatically, “ No.” Not only do
we fail in lessening the number of re-convictions (for
they have actually increased), but instead of Reforma-
tion, we produce a contamination so injurious that a
heavy responsibility rests upon the shoulders of the
powers through whose instrumentality it is maintained.
I shall cite cases presently.
m • *
In the Berrima treatment there is this fundimen-
tal error, that instead of sending there old offenders (for
whom other penance easily could be found in deprivations
and special labour), the young ones should be subjected
to it. At present these are indiscriminately thrown in
among the " old hands,” and speedily become adepts in
crime. Change this. Gentlemen of the Ermine Robe, and
Comptroller-General, thus : —lnstead of giving a first-
convicted man one, two, or three years, during which
it is as certain he learns what is morally fatal to him as
that the sun’s heat causes plants to grow, send him to
“separate treatment” for six, nine, or even twelve
months, and I swear to you that he ever after will shud-
der at the bare thought of prison, and keep from picking
and stealing and other like things. Familiarity breeds
contempt in this as well as other cases, and when one
has come to that pass that a gaol has no terror, it is
plain that the object of a sentence has totally failed.
Give, therefore, a chance to the probably tempted
youth or man who for the first time has been convicted,
and do not make him, wilfully, a criminal en permanence.
You will servo your native or adopted country infinitely
better thereby than by keeping him in for years, cor-
roding heart, mind, and soul, while his body is well
enough. I don’t plead for myself, but for those who
err a first time. Good God! Have I, who am an old
man, net watched, and winced at, the sight of com.
parative innocence being in the course of but a few
months corrupted into unspeakable foulness, bias-
phemy, and future criminality !
CLASSIFICATION.
The present system of classification, although
elaborately set forth in the Prison Eegulations,
and seemingly well calculated to separate the com-
paratively good from the positively-proved bad, is
jn effect negatory. In Darlinghnrst, for instance,
the rale stands thus—No. 1 yard contains men con-
victed three times or more. No. 2, twice convicted
men; No. 3, what is called ” first-timers No. 4,boys >
that is to say, youths up to about 18, who are not
known to have offended against the law before. All
who belong to these “ recreation grounds ” must have
committed crimes dark-hned-enough to incur at least
12 months’ imprisonment; otherwise they will be put
into 5,6, or 7, where what are called “ short-timers ’>
(from one to 12 months) are located on the same prin-
ciple.
• • •
Let us see how the system works. In the first place
there is not the slightest difference made between the
men in No. 1 and the “ boys ” in No. 4, when “ at labour,”
where they can confer and talk and chaff, and where alas j
the latter can be made B.A.’s M.A.’s andL.L.D.’s of the
Faculty of Crime, without let or hindrance, notwith-
standing the classification which does not (although I be-
lieve the intention was that it should) ensure the sepa.
ration at night of different classes of prisoners. One Of
the gravest, if not the very worst, evils of onr present
system is the association of convicts during the hours
of rest j and when it is remembered that they are
locked np in their cells from 5 p.m. to 6 a.m. (thirteen
hours), and further that they have four hours “ recrea-
tion ”in their yards,during breakfast, dinner,and supper
hoars, I need hardly point out that a great portion
of that time is taken up with " yarns ’’ such as I
should be sorry to repeat. Prom 5 to 8, the prisoners
are allowed to talk in their cells. There is no gas, con*
sequently no opportunity for work or reading, and the
horrible lessons that may be heard administered by “ old
hands ” and professors in the great science of Immo*
rality to novices, I could not and would not set down
on paper. But this may be said—and I have
said it before to the warder in charge of
wing E—that it is half a crime to allow persons
who, though educated, have fallen through strong
temptation, or perhaps stronger circumstances, to be
put into the same cell with men who have been guilty
of bestiality, and old criminals who never take an in-
terest in anything that does not concern garrotting,
burglary, pocket-picking, or other fraud, and whose
main object in life is to find out new ways of preying
on society. During my prison career, I had in my cell
at the same time, two such “ mates ” as these:—A
young man, brought up in one of the strictest Baptist
families in England, who came out here as agent for a
firm in London to Sydney Exhibition, and who, being
utterly unacquainted with “life,” ran riot, played
cards, became embarrassed, and embezzled an insigni-
cant sum of money (I believe it was less than two
pounds), for which offence he received a sentence of 18
months ; the other—a man of 70, who had been sent
out to Tasmania about 1830 ; then to Norfolk Island,
had been twice tried and convicted of homicide, had
served 12 years at Port Arthur, then been to Pent,
ridge, and was now for the second time sentenced in this
colony—one of the filthiest, most foul-mouthed hounds
I ever met. He was the “ talker 11 in our cell, and you
can imagine the topics such a man would choose—or
rather, thank heavens, you can not.
* * *
One of the most imperative duties of our rulers
is to save the still uncontaminated from contamination,
and there is no more effective way of poisoning the mora
aorta of man than to bring him into contact with those
leprous scoundrels who cannot breathe except in the
atmosphere of crime. That such an atmosphere
circulates round Darlinvhurst is a matter of course.
# * #
Classification ! Merciful God, what an irony j
Listen to this, and. Sir George Junes, Minister of
Justice, under whose superintendence this part of our
realm is, try to remedy it. About twelve months ago
there arrived from a country district two youths, Pipps
and Dodds,* one under a sentence of eighteen months,
the other two years. The former had committed some
cattle-stealing offence and reckoned about 18 summers j
the latter had not seen 16—though he had stated his age
in court as 18, so as to avoid the possibility of being sent
to the ship Vernon. His offence was having forged a
cheque on his own father while travelling with sheep.
•‘Daddy” repudiated the cheque, not having the least
notion who the imitator of bis signature was, and the
police, discovering the offender, forced the father to pro*
secnte. Young Dodds, being found guilty, was awarded
two years. Pipps and Dodds were put in the "Boys'
yard (No. 4), where there are some very queer boys
indeed; yet it was the best thing which could be
done for them under the circumstances. Dor.
ing the whole time of my incarceration, I never met
with two such prisoners as these. They had been in
the bush all their lives, and knew scarcely more of the
ways of the world than the toddling baby who runs from
4 he sofa to the chair to catch its father’s glittering
watch-chain. Some slight echo of the vices that dis-
grace us had reached them, and, monkey-like, they had
adopted them; but in all essentials, they were pure.
An oath, an indecent word, I never heard them use;
and I felt a fear for their future when 1 saw where they
were placed—a fear which I even then gave utterance to.
Good intentions should always be acknowledged, and I
am quite sure that Mr. Burke (of whom I shall have
occasion to speak by-and-bye) acted with his usual
philanthropic large-heartedness when he put them
where they are now; but the system which amalgamates
such incongruous elements as the murderer, the forger,
the incendiary, the coiner, the bushranger, the child-
assaulter, the common larcenist, and the “ unnatural ”
offender into one community cannot be expected to
produce results of a favourable character.
• • *
Pipps and Dodds were placed in charge
of one of the most feeble of mortals—a well-mean-
ing “overseer, ’ who, perhaps unconsciously, al-
lows any determined prisoner to dominate over him,
who to me seemed to have but a slight knowledge
of the two trades he is superintending—and who, it
was said in the gaol, obtained and holds his posi-
tion simply by means of the political influence of the
two secret societies to which he belongs. The result
may easily be imagined. As I noted, he is a well-
intentioned man, but, possessing no judgment, he
thought he should best serve the two youngsters, and
the object of the higher authorities, if he placed them
close to himself. Tres hien, so far. But. it happens
that “close to himself” are a few of the most accom-
plished criminals who live. Pipps was made mate and
fellow-workman with an old “Vernon” boy, who has
been nine times convicted, and who is at present under-
going a two-years’ sentence. Dodds, the diminutive ladi
who, if physiognomy and phrenology do not wholly belie
themselves, had all the signs of an honest but weak
organization, was confided to the care and tuition of one
of the most plausible and insidious, but society-hating
men in that queer community—the burglar who a few
years ago caused such a commotion in Sydney by using
chloroform to stifle the inhabitants of the houses that
he, with another, nightly visited—one of the shrewdest*
most daring, and most dangerous of that very faring
fraternity.
• * *
What was the result ? After six months these
two comparatively innocent youths became adepts in
vices one of which I dare not mention. Scarcely ten
words fell from their lips that had not reference to the
Policy of Crime, and oaths such as cannot bo allowed
to pollute paper were used as household words. Let
me implore those who have the power to do so to alter
this state of things—ay, and of even worse. Surely,
there ought to be made a distinction between
fault, folly, vice, and predeterminated crime; and when I
tell you, readers, that children of 10,11,12,13, and 14
years of age are imprisoned for months, and, in one
way or another, associated and brought into contact
with those birds of prey whose abode Darlinghurst
ought habitually to be, I think you must with me say
that our gaol system is rotten, and conducive to,
ather than repressive of, crime. And yet I have not
come to the core of that rottenness. It were vain to
find fault if I could not suggest remedies.
* In this instance the names as I do
not wish to hurt anyone’s feelings. I!giva real names
to the Editor. I '' J ~- —
EPISTLE TO SIR JO.
Al 'hail, thou most illustrious knight, all hail!
Before thee we must grovel and uncover;
ne very name of “ judge” now makes ns quail,
•ana so we crawl to thee, Knight of Nasova.
®S?t Fijian hero! see us bite the dust,
A rTs on . r humility thou must determine;
_ bear in mind our grovelling thou must,
when, noble statesman, thou dost wear the ermine I
Let us our words take back—oh, ’twas a sin
rn, or U! s’ ab thee, onr light fun to be poking,
mj® onr idol—devil take Mulqnin !
non It be a judge; so—ice were only joking!
Sir Henry’s fixed the little thing, we know,
Rn/ ® ls .® for someone else p’rhaps, we'd be howling:
.wMit is, we lick thy shoes. Sir Jo,
nd drop a tear of sympathy for .
Of love and scandal very soon
This city gay will have the germ—
Laugh, girls I a breach of promise trial
Is surely coming on next term I
The lady is of noble birth.
And very angry she has got ;
It is but natural, for she
Comes of a very Scottish lot.
The fickle lover is “ well in”
(Of course we won’t say what his trade is),
And true he was to her, until
He dropped across some other ladies.
She lived in Scotland, and he wrote
Her notes that did with passion ring—
Notes full of duckies, darlings, sweets,
And all that “ spooney" kind of thing.
He sent her passage money out.
To do the trip in proper style;
And then he sent a cablegram,
And bade her “ tarry yet a while.”
She tarried—silly, that she was 1 —
For, mingling in gay fashion’s whirl.
Her Sydney spark, alas, to say!
Got “ shook" upon another girl.
He wrote her then a line—“ My dear”—
Thus coolly, girls, commenced the letter.
And said he liked her, but he loved
Another girl a great deal better.
Begged that they might be friends, and said
Her happiness he’d e’er watch over.
And that he’d always bo her friend
While he was someone else’s lover.
Hoped she was well, and said he’d think
Oft of her, though away so far;
And begged to be remembered in
A cordial way to pa and ma.
He got the answer very quick;
Then wrinkled was his classic brow.
And sorrow dwelt within his heart—
It was a writ for sev’ral thou.
Of this affair, ’tis all we know;
This much we on our souls affirm ;
The sequel must be waited for.
Until an early day next term.


a
m
i
sS
w
wn
*9
sat
nr
r. ■
EW
ife-i?-
■^sy
■x.:
&S
tv.
,•-'2^4
r
-wj™.
■1
art!
AWARDED the
for Sewing I
ONLY FIRST
MEDAL, a'
1881.
FIRST and SI
Show. 1877,1
Singleton, Y
I ONLY First an<
No other SE I
Special Prize at
g* V to the contrary :
B. O
Tobacconist?
J.EVE . TOBACCOf
JAMES ET
No. 149 KING SI
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stsi
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and ambf
149 KING STEEI
EURE
T O
T H
AUTION
THE UNPRECEDENTED
for the
EUEEKA AND I.X.L.
Is inducing other Manufacturers
None are genuine but those bearing
HEART-SHAPED MET
stamped with the wi
EUEEKA, or the lett
Smokers, ask for t
•EUREKA or I.
THEY WILL NOT BITE T 1
Manufactured bj
T, S A Y W
EAGLE TOBACCO W
CLARENCE STREET,
LX.L
TIN TAG!
TJJY T
Caution to Storeki
ANYONE selling Tobacco with i
other than those hearing our
“CONQUERER” or “YANK!
is infringing our rights, and will b
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice
facturer has been sending out one o
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPEI
tsauj*
MANUFACTORY s
N-ACCOSD
WORKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
A certain Sydney teetotaler :
lie eats water biscuits.
Attendance at the Auatraliai
the month of September, 1881
Sundays, 3694; total, 9159.
Use Jannaach’s Conserve Salt
ramo, fish, milk, &c., sweet during i
by speedy and simple process; no <
used. To be had of all grocers
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Consi
‘ ‘ What are you going to call tl
said a shivering curate to a slip-si
woman, who had brought her y
christened on the cheap, one cold
“ Albert Eddard Wictor Fredrick
prompt reply.
When Gilbert Wakefield, whi
from the Maoris for paltry sums, t
boozle them, they killed him, and c
his cheek, drew through it his to
of illustrating that the logic an(
Pakeha could not blind them to the
Writes a correspondent:—“
many rats, but until this morning
a telegraph wire. It was opposite
Georgo-street, and a little past 8
what his real business was, but h
* doing Blondin,’ and attracted muc
“ I have analysed an original ]
Mixture, and I certify that it is
uncoloured teas, and admirably fla-
and harmless scenting, which rend
I recommend it as being a wholes
article of diet.—Karl Theodore
chemist.” —Advt.
Grattan’s Press and telegn
been removed to George-street, wl
ons and suitable premises have bei
from all parts of the world are fib
advertisers cau secure publicity in
globe at the same rates as those cl
papers. Mr. Grattan has made s
the use of visitors, and is always g
facility to his constituents for the
business.
A Santa Fe, New Mexico, pa
for the statement that there is a hr
town who has a scaly green skin, n
which he sheds every year. It (
piece. He has no hair on his heai
died lately, had similar peculiariti
overhangs her brother. These r
known as "viper men and women."
attributed to their mother having (
in Cuba, an excess of viper's flesh
the blood.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac. ; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much o'eaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TEESS
GUAEANTEED.
WHISKEES AND MOUSTACHES
GUAEANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUAEANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Eetail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STEEET.
THE "PRODUCER"
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BAKBOW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
GALLEY'S TORBAY PAINT,
THE PAINT FOR IRONWORK & OTHER USE,
RESISTS THE FUMES OF SULPHURETTED HYDROGEN. NON-POISONOUS.
EXTRAORDINARY COVERING AND PRESERVING QUALITIES.
•9- IN ANT CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OP HEAT AND COLD,
DOES NOT BLISTER, CRACK, OR FLAKE OFF.
A good Paint is always the cheapest, looking to the fact that the cost of the labour is generally three or four times the
cost of the paint; besides, a bad paint will not last long, and the covering powers of Colley's Paint are much greater than
any other •
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY,
DEVON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES-
W. MONTAGU COWARD,
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
J} H 0 S. J. BOW
ENGINEEES. BEASSF(
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, Si
HOSE, &c.
s
HERIDAN & PULLFOE
STOCK AND SHAKE BEOKEKS,
94 PITT-STEEET,
SYDNEY.
D,
Henry A. Sheridan, formerly Manager] of the] Com-
mercial Bank, Maitland.
James Fullfoed, of West Maitland.
I
MPORTANT
NOTICE.
JUST RECEIVED, the latest PARISIAN NOVEL-
TIES in
LADIES’ EVENING SHOES.
French and German Button Kid Walking BOOTS and
SHOES.
CHOICE PERFUMERY
and
FRENCH KID GLOVES.
Specialities in Gentlemen’s FOREIGN HOSIERY,
SHIRTS, and FANCY HANDKERCHIEFS.
Novelties received by every Mail.
J. M. ELLER C A M P,
(Successor to PARROT BROS.)
12 HUNTER STREET.
INTAGLIO.
Sophia Perovsky.
[She was a teacher, and the lover of Ivan Eousakoff.
With him she was strangled for taking .part in the
killing of the Czar.]
Down from her high estate she stept,
A maiden, gently born.
And by the icy Volga kept
Sad watch, and waited morn :
And peasants say that where she slept
The new moon dipt her horn.
Yet on and on, through shoreless snows,
Stretched tow’rd the great north pole.
The foulest wrong the good God knows
Rolls as dark rivers roll.
While never once for all these woes
Upspeaks one human soul.
She toilet j she taught the peasant, taught
The dark eyed Tartar. HeJ
Inspired with her lofry thought.
Rose up and sought 1 o be
What God at the creation wrought,
A man! God-like and free.
Yet e’er before him yawns the black
Siberian mine! And oh.
The knout upon the bare white back !
The blood upon the snow !
The gaunt wolves, close uponjthe track.
Fight o’er the fallen so!
And this that one might wear a crown
Snatched from a strangled sire!
And this that two might mock or frown.
From high thrones climbing higher.
To where the Parrinide looks down
With harlot in desire I
Yet on, beneath the groat north star.
Like some lost, living thing.
That long line stretches black and far
Till buried by death’s wing I
And great men praise the goodly Czar —
But God sits pitying.
• **•••
The storm hurst forth 1 From out that storm
The clear, red lightning leapt.
And O, a prostrate royal form 1
Like any blood, his crept
Down through the snow, all smoking worm.
And Alexander slept 1
Yea, one lies dead—for millions dead!
One red spot in the snow
For one long damning l>ne of red ;
While exiles endless go—
The ba> e at breast, the mother’s head
Bowed down, and dying so!
And did a woman do this deed P
Then build her scaffold high.
That all may on her forehead read
Her martyr’s right to die I
Ring Cossack ronnd on royal steed !
IN ow lift her to the sky!
But, tjpe! From out the black hood shines
A light few look upon 1
Poor exiles, see, from dark deep mines.
Your star at burst of dawn 1
A thud! A creak of hangman’s lines—
A frail shape jerked and drawn !
♦ ♦♦♦*»
The Czar is dead; the woman dead.
About her neck a cord.
In God’s house rests his royal head —
Hers in a place abhorred :
Vet I had father have her bed
Than thine, most royal lord!
Yea, rather be that woman dead.
Than this new living Czar,
To hide in dread, with both hands red.
Behind great bolt and bar —
While, like the dead, still endless tread
Sad exiles t’ward their star.


Chemists and Druggists
CAUTION. — In our style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boschee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d. ;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BEOTHEES.
OGALLALA LINIMENT
was introduced into London
two years ago, where thousands of oases were cured
—and one year in Sydney; and some of the worst cases
of Rheumatism have been cured in a short time by
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long standing, it will cure.
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Aches it will cure in a
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by a few applications.
HEAD OFFICE :
89 WATERLOO-EOAD, LONDON;
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE AGENTS, PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
MANZ ANITA PEUIT PILLS.
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented for Liver complaints.
Thousands of people in Sydney have used them, and
have been cured of Biliousness, Indigestion, Costive-
ness, Sick Headaches, and all complaints arising from
deranged digestive organs.
Head Olflce: 89 WATERLOO ROAD, LONDON;
and 107 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEP.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE AGfENTS.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
%• They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
PodophyUum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health,
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The
most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
gYDNEY PROVIDENT DISPENSARY.
ALT. MEDICINES AND PRESCRIPTIONS
AT HALF THE USUAL CHARGE.
MECHANICAL AND SURGICAL DENTISTRY.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
Pull Set, £6 155.; Single Tooth, 7s.
Extraction, per tooth. Is.; Children, 6d.
PROFESSORS ARNOLD AND MAURICE,
196, Pitt-street—opposite Parmer’s.
HENRY’S COLONIAL OINTMENT, AND
AUSTRALIAN WORM POWDERS.
Prepared only by the Inventor and Proprietor, J
HENRY, CHEMIST, 750 George-street, Haymarket,
third door from Commercial Bank.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
fTUCELE YOUR APPETITE with the Ans-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TREATMENT for aU
Nervous Disorders, which unfit sufferers for marriage,
Ac., &o. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Chest, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—E. T.
SELBY, Medical Herbalist, Devonshtre-street, Surry
Hills, Sydney.
I
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS.
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
608 George-street.
COOPER & CO.,
WINE AND SPIBIT MERCHANTS,
CENTRAL STORES:
371 PITT STREET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Country iters will receive our careful attention
Business Announcements
P.
E. L A E K I
Wholesale and Retail
PEODUCE MEECHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-18 George-street West (late Parramatta-sweet),
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near William-street.
N.
Pnre Cape Bariev, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. E. LAE KIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
E
ASTEEN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDEESON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
*24 9EOEGE STEEET,
HAYMARKET.
IT A. ABBOTT,
BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER,
106 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
(FIVE doors FROM PITT street).
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices.
W A TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
R
OBEET BUTCHEE & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
D
AY OE NIGHT POETEAITUEE.
The elegant Studio of
THE ELECTEIC PORTRAIT COMPANY,
205 OXFORD STREET,
(Opposite to the Court House, Darlinghnrst),
IS NOW OPEN, from 10 in the Morning till 10 in the
Evening, for
TAKING PORTRAITS BY ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.;
Architectural, Mechanical, and Landscape Photographs
in the highest style of art to order.
The Autotype process also practised in all its beauti-
ful varieties.
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHOETEST
NOTICE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-street South.
s
HOP FEONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
B
EITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
RegentlHouse, 869,George-street South.
IAPEEHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street^South.
LEAD, CEMENT
G. F. MURPHY.
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-street South.
iLATE GLASS. PLATE GiLASS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 23rd September, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from this date, it
will be declared void.
F. B. SUTTOR.
Hunter and Macleat Mining District.
No. 552; George Proctor and others; Portion No.
209 gl; County of Gloucester, parish of Binders; la.
Ir. 28p.; Application No. Copeland 479.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 23rd September, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessee
executes and takes delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from this
date, it will be declared void.
F. B. SUTTOR.
No. 1001; Richard Harland; Portion No. 255; County
of Westmoreland, parish of Baring; 20a.; Application
No. Rockley 76-L
Business Announc
Lleoax.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEREAGH STREE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary ]
T EGAL.-Mr. T. M. S
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite t
News Office.
gj. AND S. PE
SAW MILLS AND TIME
16 Ebseime Steei
Every description of Foreign an
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, ]
Morldings. Cases, Turnery. Ac., at 1
ri H ARLES
t (from Messrs. P. N. Russe
Manufacturer of Cooking Stove
Mountings, &c. Off No. 517 Geoi
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), Sj
£IHEAPEST AND EES']
AT
MARK ISAACS' CORPORA!
HAT STREET, HATM
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally chea
Go dp packed and delivered free c
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LII
WITH.
AG. C H U E C
• 147 TORI STR]
Opposite the Marks
IMPORTER AND MANUPA
Coffee, Peppers, Spic
CLEVELAND MILLS. SUB
CHEAPEST HOUSE IK
for Liverpool and Black Hors
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hi
680,000 AMERICAN BK]
Just arrived, all si
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLAI
Pork Sausage skins, splendid ear
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb
Canterbury.
CENTRAL FURNISHING .
BUILDINGS. Nos. 29, 31, and
Come and inspect our large S'
FURNITURE at lowest prices in tt
WE FURISH HOUSES on
from £lO to £lOOO, at the
NISHING ARCADE, Nos. 29, 3:
street.
CENTRAL FURNISHING .
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, am
H. LEVY & CO. desire to call tb
public to their large and magnific
Household FURNITURE, at pru
petition. Every article marked in p
carefully packed, and sent to all par
A LARGE ASSORTMENT
the best makers —Errard, B
Public Comptu
The mercantile ban:
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF 1
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...
DIRECTORS:
The Hon, Sir John Hay, K.C.hl
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wni. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidlev King, M.L,
AUDITORS
Jas, Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A, A. Wilso:
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 George-street Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Aloxandi
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances naa
other nroduce shipped to England t
COTTISH IMPERIAI
• COMPANY,
CAPITAL ...
FIRE RISKS AT LOWES
INGLTS. NIXON, i
Chief Agents for N.S
7 BRIDGE STREET CH
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND hi
ANCE COMP AN
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
Q. A. LLOYD Af
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STRI
SIDNEY.
NCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKIN(
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIE
This Society provides a certain fix
members when thrown out of empl
Medical attendance durirg sicknes
age, and when incapacitated from fo
ment through disease or accident; ao
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influenc*
suitable re-engagemi
For further particulars, apply to
G. HORTON MGER:
Secretai
Went'
E
Applications for Agencie


SINGER'S SEWING
ARE MADE ONLI
The Singer Mannfactnx
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Eu
39 FOSTER LANE,
Dep6t for New South
NO. 1 DARLING STORES, HA
BTDNBT.
SINGER’S SEWING I
HAVE
All the Latest Impro'
SINGER’S SEWING 1
FOE
Largest Variety of
SINGER’S SEWING I
FOR
Strength and Beauty (
SINGER’S SEWING I
FOR
Embroidery, Braiding, ai
SINGER’S SEWING 1
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and
SINGER’S SEWING I
FOR
Kilting, Cording, and
Singer’s Sewing Machines agains
all the World's SI
FIRST PLACE 160
CAUTION 1 CAUTION 11
See that oar name and trade-mark
without which none art
If you are asked to buy a Maohii
Singer C 0.," but recommended to
•• Singer System" or “ Singer Print
advice to those about to marry—l
Ten per cent, discount
2s. 6d. WEEKLY,!
From all Agents, ai
THE COMPANY’S
No. 1 DARLING 81
HARBOUR STREET,
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER &C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED j
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MAN!
TIME PATMEN
2s. 6d. per week —2s. 6d. per weel
And no interest ol
10 per cent, off for
BEWARE OF IMII
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER A
THE ONLY “ SING
TURNER &
Opposite
S
I
N
G
E
R
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MAOHII
HAYMARKE
UNITEESIT T
Affiliated to Trin. Col
CHAMBEES : 191 WILLIAM S'
Pkincipai, :
De. EODWAY. M.A., P.E
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY an
BOD WAY, and the number of stu<
strictly limited to TEN, so that 1
gentleman that individual attentic
secure success. Dr. Eodway’s sysi
cient, and he guarantees to pass
sends to the University—Law, Ci
Public Examinations.
PEES: Per term, in advance, for e
Diplomas of Merit and Medals (
awarded upon the conclusion
UNIVEESITY COLLEGE. 191 Wil
DK. EODWAY
gYDNEY LIVE STC
Having secured the services of
LAND, well-known in Victoria am
Stock Salesman, I bee leave to ass
all interested in the SALE of PAT
and STATION PEOPEETIES, tl
shall be directed to this branch of •
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite
tical knowledge, attention, and
which have made my Wool and Pro
a success, will entitle me to the c<
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush ai
a week ; allowances made on all S
tended for sale, and proceeds of sak
a week, or when required on days of
Further information if applied foi
MASON BROT
14 & 16 S
3y
Have always in
to the TEA]
SALE BUYE
lEONMONGE]
GENEB
GLAS!
BAETH
WINES, BEEI
and
BULK MI
Age
JOHN WAL
Old High!
J. soei:
Ck
J. T. (
Schnapps
A. MELvI
Edin bur j
\
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GEh
COLONIAL AND IMPOETED ,
Turret Clocks—simple, strike.
Spectacles, etc,, of all
Plain figures—Low pri
H. P A I
ml
aSBESS
GREAT.«
_CEN'TPAL X |
«n®
.^5
BSSTJS
i N PLA
mamk
SOBOB
ALL
m
V 5
: 7-~-~ -! '' „ * "••*T
iUo^l
*\J
hi
mm
‘SSSSssi
S3*
V/s
r 4
A'li
CENrtAL
um
■-'
w
w
ALARMING SALE OF 800
NOW ONI NOW 01
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL B(
510 GEORGE STRE]
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
If yon are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT
with those you have been pay
MAKE NO MIS
This is the only Genuine Sale, a
FOB ONE MONTH
10s 6d DOUBLI
SILK NAGASAKI
Frames, are the best
Quality, ditto, ditto
opened this week.
CATE shipment of tl
READY MADE
in CUT, MATERIA
TWEED SUITS, exi
tion of gentlemen spi
shrunk and well out.
from 12s 6d to 80s.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SC
SOWING BROTHERS’
332 I 800
GEORGE STREET.
GOWING BROTHERS’
333 * 800
GEORGE STREET;
GOWING BROT
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Centre
AND
832 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post 0


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Orville Grant, brother of the ex-President, has
Inst died in a lunatic asylum.
Victor Hugo is a Count, but refuses to be so
styled, his principles being Republican.
Alderman James Pye is eighty-one years of age,
and has for that lengthy period lived in Parramatta, his
native village.
At it again. Mr. John Gale, of Queanbeyan,
■ tends filing a criminal information against Mr. John
Allan O’Neill, a resident of the same town, for libel.
Baron Maclay has returned to Sydney from
New Guinea and Queensland. He says he feels con-
fident that Skuthorpe possesses the genuine Leichhardt
rehcs. ,
Dr. Van Heekeren gave his son a cheque for
£l5OO, with instructions to secure the best legal talent
for hi's defence. The eloquent advocate for down-the-
harhonr prostitution will no doubt have a show.
Mr. Rooney’s scholars at Crown-street Public
School have presented him, on his removal, with a £35
gold watch and an illuminated address. Let’s see—what
was it Mrs. Bardwell’s pupils presented her with ?
Guiteau, the murderer ef General Garfield,
spent part of his life in lecturing on Christianity, and
defending it from the attacks of Colonel Ingersoll, the
Freethinker. This should be a warning to all young
men.
The Whitehall Review (ultra-Tory) pub-
lishes a burlesque prospectus of “ The Bradlaugh Re-
lief and Exportation Company, limited,” the object
being “ the acquisition of Bradlaugh for purposes of
exportation.”
•xMr. G R. Dibbs has been unsuccessful in his
application for leave to appeal to the Privy Council from
the decision of the Supreme Court allowing Mr. Shep-
herd to prove in applicant’s estate for the amount of
the slander verdict.
Another Tichborne Claimant has just turned
up—this time in San Francisco At present the verdict
is that the new aspirant is either the real Sir Roger or a
most adroit swindler. We don’t care about saying
which theory we favor.
Judge Hargrave is said to contemplate resigning,
if superannuation arrangements are satisfactory. Sir
George Innes is mentioned as aspiring to the suc-
cession. The N.B.W. Bench will soon be the admira-
tion and the wonder cf the universe.
Amy Lewis, who recently figured in the scandal
with the man Colley, who attempted to murder her,
and who has since been divorced from her husband, is
to be married to a person in Melbourne holding the
outward position and title of a gentleman.
Dean Macartney of Melbourne, has been fifty-
eight years in Holy Orders, and is still able to walk
lour miles an hour. He is a very old gentleman indeed,
and is as extreme a Low Churchman as is Dean Cowper
of Sydney, an ecclesiastic after his own heart.
Tinworth and party, who the ether day got 831 b.
gold in a lump from their claim, at Ballarat, have not
been over-desirous of making public their good fortune.
Only a short time since they dropped upon a smaller
patch, which enabled them to divide £2OOO among them.
The Wide Bat News says that, in view
of some recent decisions given by the Supreme
Courts of New South Wales, Victoria, and the other
colonies, it is inclined to advocate the appointment of
Colonial Supreme Court judges by the Queen, instead
of by Colonial Cabinets.
Mr. Sa’omons, Q.C., made a very long speech at
the dinner given by the Bar to Mr. Justice Windeyer
on the occasion of his elevation to the Bench. His
Honor the Chief Justice remarked that Mr. Salomons
spoke after dinner just as he spoke in Court; where-
upon a wit observed that Sir James would have been
much more cruel had he said that Mr. Salomons spoke
in Court just as he spoke after dinner.
One of the most remarkable men in"the West is
the Hon. E. Webb, M L.A. Twenty-five years ago, a
draper behind a counter in Bathurst, he is now worth
probably £200,000. The “ first families," who would
scarcely look at him a decade ago, are now glad to be
invited to taste his thorough-bred mutton. Persever-
ance, energy, and minding his business are the levers
of his success. His history would point the moral of
a Sunday-school tract.
His Honor Mr. Justice Williams, of Victoria,
is an athlete as well as a clever lawyer and scholar, and
is equally at home on the sliding-seat and on the bench.
At last Melbourne regatta he rowed a dashing oar in
the Service senior four ; and earlier in the season, as
stroke of a pair-oar, showed up well. His Honor is a
liberal subscriber to the Victorian Rowing Association,
which body has, on two occasions, benefited consider-
ably by his success in private matches.
That graceful writer, “ Tasma” (Mrs. Jessie
Frazer), who is the daughter of a Mr. J. A. Huybers,
of Hobart, has been awarded by the Geographical
Society of Paris the decoration of an Offieier d’ Academic,
a distinction given to persons of high literary attain-
ments and professors. In addition to this honour the
lady has been informed by the secretary of the society,
M. Qauthiot, that she has been appointed a delegate to
represent that body at the International Congress, to
ba held at Venice.
Mr. G. B. Simpson was offered the position of
temporary Supreme Court Judge at two of the ap-
proaching Circuit Courts (Yass and Goulbum), but
declined the honour, which was then tendered to and
accepted by Mr. C. J. Manning. In consequence of the
illness of Mr. Justice Hargrave, Mr. District Court
Judge Dowling will preside at Dubbo and Grafton. It
ability and merit go for anything, Judge Dowling
should be selected by Government for the prospective
Supreme Court vacancy.
Mr. J. B. Patterson is the present, and Mr. John
Woods the late, Victorian Minister of Railways. The
■other day Mr. Patterson suspended an engine-driver for
taking Mr. Woods to his home at Edom, on a special
engine. Mr. Woods, after becoming a private member,
frequently forgot that he was not still at the head of
the Railway Department. It was not unusual for him
to order out a spare engine, and have himself “ run
..down special" to his home at Edom, just as he might
I have ordered a horse from a B very-stable—only in the
latter case he would himself have had to pay for it.
says "iEgles.”
Signor Ricciotti Garibaldi, son of the Italian
patriot, has returned from Australia to Italy, and was
on the 7th August present with his brother Menotti at
a meeting of Radicals held at the Alhambra Theatre,
Borne, for the purpose of protesting against the law of
guarantees. There were present more than 3000 persons,
but the resolution demanding the repeal of the Law of
Guarantees was not aUowed to be read by the police.
The meeting was dissolved by the authorities amidst
the wildest tumult. Ricciotti, who took an active part
in the Franco-German war, in the course of which he
Wag lamed by a rifle bullet, was a favourite in Melbourne,
where he at first wrote some articles on military sub-
jects for The Australasian. Then he was appointed
private secretary to the then Premier, then Hon. James
Service. When Mr. Berry came into power, Ricciotti
was shifted to the Education Department, and made
into—a •* truant inspector."
Every town in the North has its speciality. At
Maitland, they show you the highest flood level, and
the only prize reporter. Newcastle points with pride
to one of her aldermen who did go to school. At
Singleton, you can sometimes see a "serious” gentleman
who will find his road at night against any other ani-
mated whisky-still for miles around. At Tamworth,
you may see the j nryman who has not been in the dock.
Scone, however, comes right away to the front. Living
Vet, in that town, is the woman who boasts of the
introduction of the prickly-pear to the N orth. Miles
°f country are overrun by it; sheep die that eat it;
crows fatten that take the fruit further to scatter its
wretched seeds ; stations otherwise worth, cash down,
*60,000, fetch £40,000. The spectres of men who have
been stung to death striving to eradicate it haunt the
m’aqs of the u onntaius and the depths of the valleys.
Fifty-seven years ago, this old lady brought up the
Prickly-pear in a flower-pot, “ nurturing it with care.”
"hen the party was stuck up by bushrangers, her only
cry was, “ Take everything—take my money, but don’t
tom hmy flowers.” The Dumaresq, the Cook, the
Far!,ary, and the White families pay her a pension.
H is in the form of an annual contribution of about
*‘ooo each, in an almost vain endeavour to clear their
estates.
Eumour is busy with the name of the original
cause of Elizabeth Antill's trouble , which led to her
submitting to Dr. Van Heekeren’s treatment. Eliza-
beth was a Coffee Palace waitress, and it is said that a
certain very prominent person now dislikes the song,
“ It’s all along of Eliza."
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen’s budget speech was a very
dreary affair. However, it wasn’t quite so dreary as
the famous financial oration made by J. H. Brooke, who
afterwards sailed for Japan. His budget speech nearly
emptied the House, and John Woods fairly went to
sleep beneath the weighty speaker. When Brooke had
done, poor E. D. Ireland crushed him and his speech
i»y the best quotation ever made in the Victorian
Parliament:
“ The babbling Brooke, in leafy month of June,
Sings to the slumbering Woods all night his drowsy
tune 1”
“ The Most Travelled ” is bobbing up serenely
in Melbourne. He has written to the Argus, suggest-
ing the conversion of the Exhibition building into a
National Theatre. The dear boy knows his way about,
as of yore. Every soldier of the Salvation Army, from
the commander to the pioneer who picks up the H’s
after the ’ymns, will write condemning the proposal
and recommending a National Conventicle instead.
This will run for a week, and the editor will have a
leader on the subject, and the enterprising and greatly-
travelled E. S. Smythe’s name will appear two hundred
and thirty times. The Exhibition building will not be
converted into a National Theatre, but the Argus will
have paraded the sagacious E. S. before the curtain all
by himself, and joy will reign in his manly bosom,
bless him I
The Czar seems less scared at Petersboff, a
splendid marine residence, built by his grandfather,
Nicholas, in the Gulf of Finland, than he|has been else-
where. He strolls about the place with the Empress
and children unattended, and visits the peasants in
their huts. Petersboff is a very nice place. Nicholas
never dared let anybody know what it cost. He burned
all the bills. Every tree was transplanted from Ger-
many, and each cost more than would keep a Eussian
peasant family for a year. There are complete groves
of such trees ; and people can’t understand how it is
that the Russian peasantry is so steeped in poverty,
filth, and ignorance; or why the nation so hates the
race of Romanoff. The present Czar imports no more
trees, but it seems probable that the peasants among
whom he trusts himself are specially imported for the
purpose, and paid considerable sums—wrung from
other peasants, of course—to let the Czar visit them
without hilling him, so that he may brag that he once
met a subject who didn’t show a decided inclination to
cut his throat.
The Tories are very fond of taunting their
Whig opponents with the alliance between the latter
and the Radicals, and especially take pleasure in throw-
ing “ atheist Bradlaugh ’’ in the respectable face of
church-going whiggery. Yet this is how a writer in
one of the principal Tory organs writes of Bradlaugh :
“ I saw Bradlangh’s fight with the policemen. I will
tell my Whig friends something. This Titan
whom they are to have among them is Danton, with
the addition of a skill, a subtlety, a resource that poor
Danton never commanded. When I saw that ferocious
drawn face with its tremendous jaw, and the fierce
gleam in the eye, I fancied how it would look were its
owner getting inspiration from a maddened crowd like
the crowd that followed Wilkes. My dear Whig friends
should remember that George 111. very nearly lost his
throne by reason of a man who was not nearly so con-
summate'a demagogue as Bradlaugh. I tell them that
this person whom their blundering weakness has forced
into importance is a real leader. He has wit; he has
a vast virility ; he has courage ; he has no scruple; he
is a keen tactician; he has suffered and wrought, and
he knows the people among he once suffered. Above
all, he is the best speaker that I have ever heard. He
is as effective as Mr. Gladstone, and infinitely more
effective than any other man in Parliament when it
comes to moh leadership. His ignoble rough-and-
tumble with the policeman was no blunder, although it
may seem funny. It was a clever plan. This same
Bradlaugh knows his public, wtile the Whigs neither
know the public nor anything else. The Gladstone
Ministry went into power by mob-oratory. I would
smile if the appropriate retribution came.”
Mr. W. H. Odgers, the Under-Secretary of the
Victorian Treasury, is seriously ill. He has been off
duty for about five months. At first he was suffering
from kidney and liver ailments, which were subse-
quently complicated by other complaints, and now the
most serious feature of his illness is bronchitis.
Mr. Howard Willoughby will edit the evening
paper which is shortly to be issued by the Argus peo-
ple for the purpose of checking the huge circulation of
the Age, and converting the Victorian working man to
Free-trade and Conservat ism. Mr David Watterston
will succeed Mr. Willoughby as leader of the Argus
staff. Mes rs. Tom Carrington and M’Kinlay (of
Punch) are about to bring out the Evening World, an
illustrated daily, and The Age people, it is said, also
contemplate an evening daily. But The Argus, even if
ic publish its evening paper at a half-penny as has been
prop'eed, will never shake The Age, which represents
the people as distingtished from the capitalists.
The death of Lord Gainsborough recalls to the
World an anecdote of the time of his conversion.
The then Lord and Lady Campden, with their eldest
child. Lady Blanche (Murphy), at the decisive audience
with Pius IX., were moved to tears. Lady Blanche,
who had never seen either father or mother cry pre-
viously (she was at the time five or six years old),
supposed the Pope had been guilty of some exceeding
ill-treatment to her parents, whereon, with closed
infant fists and feet, she took on herself to avenge the
imagined grievance. Judge the horror of her parents
at seeing such irreverent deed committed on the sacred
person of the Pope ! Pius IX., much embarrassed be-
tween the tears of the elder and the cuffs of the junior
neophyte, called a monsignor of his antechamber to
the rescue.
This from the Temoba Heeald “On Mon-
day morning last his Worship the Police Magistrate
had before him a member of the higher grade of the
forensic art, on a charge of drunkenness and disorderly
conduct, in the shape of William Charles Aspinall, who
was described as fifty years of age, barrister, born in
England, and a member of the Church of England.
His Worship, no doubt, having a veneration for the
name, which was once owned by Victoria’s cleverest
lawyer, discharged William Charles with a caution.
Again, 0, Temporal 0, Mores!" Adds the Newcastle
Herald : —“ All who recollect the brilliant defence of
O’Farrell, the would-be assassin of H.R.H. the Duke
of Edinburgh, at Clontarf, will also have in memory
the name of the prisoner’s advocate—William Charles
Aspinall.” Now, of course, every one knows that it
was the late Mr. Butler Cole Aspinall, and not Mr. W.
C. Aspinall, who defended O’Farrell. But every one
doesn’t know that, because the brilliant wit came to
Sydney to defend the wretched monomaniac named, he
(Mr. A.) was sent to Coventry by the members of a
certain very aristocratic club. To this day the cir-
cumstance has not been forgotten in Melbourne.
The London correspondent of the ’Frisco Post
thus writes of the eternal Mrs. Langtry : —“I saw Mrs.
Langtry the other evening at the opera, on the occa-
sion of the first performance of Rubinstein’s opera of
‘II Demonio.’ She sat with her back to the stage
during the entire evening, having evidently come there
to be seen and not to see. The Jersey Lily looks worn
and faded, and her pale grey toilet lacked that showy
splendour that used to characterise her costumes in
former days. I never admired her, even when I first
saw her in the very height of her renown. How any
face could be considered handsome, with that broad,
heavy jaw, was to me a mystery. And then she always
lacked the supreme charm of beauty—namely, uncon-
sciousness, whether real or feigned. She is always at-
tudinizing, and always on the look-out for admirers.
The Prince of Wales dropped in to visit her in one of
the entr’actes, but his Highness had a cold in his head,
apparently, as he passed nearly the whole of the period
of his visit in a series of vehement and most unroyal
sneezes.” Curiously enough, we have, side by side with
this extract, a portrait of the Jersey Lily, one of the
Whitehall Review series of London beauties. The
face therein depicted, is one of extreme loveliness, and
the contour of the lower part is exquisitely rounded.
We suppose we shan’t be told of a real ueauty in the
'Frisco Post until their correspondent strikes one him-
self. Then look out for a couple of columns »f “ dis-
played” gush about a hatchet-faced girl with a five
inch chin and the social vivacity of an oyster.
Mr. Thompson, one of the survivors of the last
memorable amateur dramatic company organised by the
late Charles iDickens for charitable purposes, is dead.
Mr. Thompson, who was so fortunate as to have an in-
dependent income, passed several years at Trinity
College, Cambridge, and lived for some time on the
Continent, where he first met Dickens. Joining the
amateur company proposed by the novelist, he had
increased opportunities of enjoying the companionship
he loved, and acting with Douglas Jerrold, George H.
Lewes, Mark Lemon, John Leech, Clarkson Stanfield,
John Forster, and other celebrities now passed away.
Of the Travellers’ Club he was one of the earliest
members, and belonged for some years to the Reform
Club. He was once proposed as a candidate for Wey-
mouth in the Liberal interest, but he did not go to the
poll. Mr. Thompson leaves behind him two daughters,
one of whom is Mrs. Elizabeth Butler, the painter of
“ The Roll Call.”
The Eeeves-Wood honorarium betting trans-
action in the N.Z. Legislative Council has assumed
another phase. Mr. Wood recently endeavoured to
address a fellow-member whose peppery temper is a
matter of notoriety, and was promptly repulsed in such
language as would be appropriate if applied to a common
Weloher. Mr. Wood was informed that unless he paid
the amount of the bet in dispute between him and
Mr. Reeves he ran a risk of being kicked oui of the
Chamber; he then “ cashed up.” Certainly this kind
of thing isn’t polite, but still it shows that hon. mem-
bers are alive and awake, which is more than can be
said of our Legislative Council. In the N.Z. House of
Representatives, too, the other morning, Mr. Pyke
called Mr. Seddon a dishonourable man, for voting on a
bill on which ho had paired. Mr. fceddon retorted
that Mr. Pyke was a sanguinary liar. Mr. Pyke said
he would meet the insult in the lobby. He waited two
hours, but Seddon wouldn’t go. Buc Pyke got level
with him, after all. Seddon affected to be very in-
dignant because the Government would not allow any
adjournment for meals, and expressed himself some-
what in this style—“ I ham astonished, sir, at the
hattitude assumed by the Government. I ham,” Ac.
<ko. Thereupon Mr. Pyke interjected, ‘‘Why, you
have nothing to complain of. You’ve had your mouth
full of ham for the last half-hour,”
Queensland possesses about the oddest sort of
Alsatia in the world. At the northern extremity of
Stradbroke Island, one of the long sandy islands which
form M jreton Bay, serving as breakwaters against the
Pacific swell, is Amity Point. This is a wild place with
a triple frontage, one to the ocean, one to the straits
which separate Stradbroke from Moreton Island, and
one to the placid waters of Moreton Bay. It is distant
about 40 miles from Brisbane, and has been tenanted for
years by a most extraordinary crew, besides being to a
certain extent the head-quarters of a tribe of blacks,
with whom the white hermits have most things in
common. The oldest of the brotherhood is a gentle-
man, a barrister by profession, well connected, highly
educated, and possessed of numerous accomplishments
—once a welcome guest in many drawing rooms, where
as a vocalist and gnitar-player he was always an ac-
quisition. Early in the history of Queensland, this
Mr. B. was a Registrar of the Supreme Court. Now he
is a grizzled elderly hermit, living surrounded by queer
pets—tame opossums and so forth, in a blaokfellow’s
gunyah of wattles and ti-tree bark. For many years
he was altogether solitary, but after awhile the attrac-
tions of the queer life of freedom from care and con-
ventionality procured for him a companion—an
ex-naval officer, son of Lord H de W , formerly
British Ambassador at the Court of Brussels. The
Hon. J E , a nephew of the late Lord George
Bentinck. and grandson of the recently deceased Duke
of Portland, at whose demise, the other day, his mother.
Lady H de W , received a bequest ®f half a
million sterling, embraced the aboriginal style of
life, and possibly the aboriginal something else,
with scarcely any reservation. On the visit
of excursionists, which occasionally happens,
the recluses of Amity Point would affably entertain
their guests—who mostly belong to fishing parties
—attired in the simple costume of a Crimean shirt
fastened round the waist by a saddle-strap. The Hon.
Mr. E 's health becoming extremely delicate, he
has for some time returned to civilized quarters, but
before he left a recruit had arrived in the portly
person of Major R , brother in-law of a late
Governor of Queensland, and during his relative’s
term of office, a distinguished ornament of the Govern-
ment House at Brisbane, a jovial hearty gentleman,
who looked equally handsome in uniform or civil
evening dress. More recently two for three) brothers,
sons of one of the oldest and most respectable colonists
on the Bremer River, have taken up their abode at
Amity Point, and entered upon the regular life of the
place—the Amity Point TIMON’S life, a primitive life,
free from the worries and observances cf society. They
enjoy an almost “ eternal summer." The bay yields
them fish, an occasional turtle, and sometimes a dugong.
They sell their surplus catch, and buy tea, sugar, flour,
and tobacco. Sometimes one of them gets a remittance.
Sometimes gales interfere with fishing, and stores are
run out. Then they starve a little. But the life ex-
ercises a strong fascination, and not one is at all dis-
posed to return to civilized life with its ties, observ-
ances and worries.
SOCIAL.
Manly was unmistakably en Jece on Saturday,
when the wild-flower show attracted an immense
number of visitors. Never was there fairer day,
brighter sunshine, or purer breeze; royal weather in
truth, and no wonder that the Fairlight carried many
hundreds down to the Australian Brighton to see the
novelty, in spite of numerous enticements elsewhere.
When the steamer drew up to the pier the crush to get
past the turnstiles played havoc with a good many
pretty toilettes; and it is fortunate the human frame
has a little elasticity about it, or some of the flattened
victims would never have recovered their normal shape
again. Patience, perseverance, and persistent pushing,
however, will work wonders in a crowd ; so at length all
the aesthetic pilgrims got through the wicket gate —or
rather, the ticket gate—and the perspiring procession
at once headed for the pavilion. Plenty of seats were
scattered over Ivanhoe Park, and the grounds were
dotted with groups of visitors—of a very different class
from those sometimes seen. The Permanent Force
Band played its latest and liveliest music, and bright-
ness and beauty re gned. In the pavilion, which was
crammed, the wild-flowers were arranged according to
the individual tastes of the stall-holders; and the
walls, roof, and pillars of the building were beautified
in a manner that must have taken willing hearts and
working hands many, many hours of toil. In the
centre were the stalls of Mrs. Willis and the Misses
Woods, to the right, and of Mrs. Thornton and Mrs.
Hilder on the left, built in tiers, with bouquets varying
in size—from little “ buttonholes ” to regular
“boomers”—and crowded with brobdignagianbunches
of flaring waratahs. One of these floral giants con-
tained 250 waratahs, all of which had to be tied on
singly, and others were equally as large. At a stall at
one end was an adult nosegay, about as big as a May-
pole ; and at the other end a stuffed kangaroo filled the
juveniles with admiring awe. At his feet, among the
ferns, was a smaller “animile” of similar species. At
the entrance the children’s stall was situated, and the
small vendors behind it took care that you didn’t
forget it either. “ Only half-a-crown for this pretty
bunch,” generally resulted in a sale, and any answer in
the negative did not seem to be understood. Mrs.
Hayes, assisted by Miss Benson, conducted a stall, and
did a great trade, “selling off” at a most satisfactory
rate. A cross, made of all sorts of white flowers, edged
with green ferns, and standing some two feet high, was
awarded a special prize, and was exquisitely beautiful.
Mrs. Augustus Morris exhibited a large flat screen or
dado, entirely composed of small wild-flowers, in
different colours, upon a green background of ferns,
heath, and moss, which must have taken a long time to
complete. The pillars of her stall were fairly
smothered with wreaths, garlands, and festoons of
leaves, wild-flowers, stag-ferns, rock-lilies, lily-pilies,
waratahs, and ferns. Tne stall of the Misses Under-
wood looked nice ; but even if it had not, it would
have been crowded all the same, for “by far the
fairest flowers there” were the fair ladies themselves.
Mrs. Austin made a fine show, and the solid white
cross over her stand was a conspicuous object. ‘ Won t
you buy a bouquet, sir ? ” sat on a chair by,
basket in lap; and when the question is put straight
at you like that, from a pair of sparkling black eyes,
what can you do? Unless you are as hard as tie
nether millstone, you’ve either got to buy, or ehe
leave the building, feeling as mean and guilty as a
man who puts a smooth threepenny that none of the
'bus-boys will take, on the collection plate. The yourg
SMALL-POX AND DYNAMITE:
THE BLESSINGS OF RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT.


ladiea at the left of the entrance, as well known on the
£„, r) rn f? a^ e 88 011 the block in George-street, not only
£ ®°we r 8, but also announced by means of
ge tickets that they were “for sale" themselves.
...f never reft lly knew what it was to yearn for riches
tin we saw that announcement. That the beautiful
Bargains were still in the market at the close of the
oay can only be accounted for by s imposing that the
legitimate flower trade had funds,
inis wm be easily believed when we e-ive some idea of
the quotations that ruled : Waratahs, 6d each ; “ Button-
holes, Is ; extra pretty, pinned in with a smile, fetched
fancy prices. Bouquets commanded purchasers at
irons Is to 10s, according to th * ize of the hunch, and
the softness of the buyer. A sprig of wiT.te native
rose, without any root, was bought by a well-known
Citizen for a guinea; and when we heard v of this trans-
action we went and gazed on the only other specimen
°*'kind, which did possess a root, and wondered
whether Sir Samnel Wilson would be able to buy it, if
he sold a few of his stations. Perhaps the most pro-
minent thing that caught the eye was the text that
ran round the building in large letters—" Consider the
lily-pilies, how they grow .” Eh I No, there’s
something wrong there. Wait a moment, till we turn
it up in our revised version. Yes, we are going a lit tle
astray—‘Consider the lilies how they grow, they toil
not, neither do they spin, yet Solomon in all his glory
was not arrayed like one of these.” Well, if Solomon
Ii. aB i S?* arrayed like the flowers, we are quite su-e
tnat Mrs. Solomon, even in her gaudiest raiment, did
not radiate halt of the glory that some of those Manly
maidens did. Why, beside these two in skyblne
and amber, Mrs. S. would have been literally nowhere :
and if she had only seen that petite little blonde in all
blue, labelled sold ; ’ she would have cried with envy
away. There were lots of pretty dresses
visible on “the gracious slopes of fair green
hills about Manly on that sunny afternoon, bnt we
only mention those that were specially ticketed. Every-
one said it was a great success ; and so it was. But if
truth be told, the wild flowers of the Manly bnsh are.
to garden flowers, about as comparable as a tallow
dip to the lime-light. It was the weather, the water
tnp, the society, and the novelty that made it a
success. Nevertheless, whatever beauty the “ wild-
lings of nature " possess was certainly shown to the
best advantage on S atnrday, and the ladies and gentle-
men who bestowed such great labour on arranging them
deserve all praise. The Manly •• Wild Flower Show "
will inevitably be an annual affair.
• • •
The arrangements for festivities in connection
With the opening of the post and telegraph offices at
Gonlburn include a banquet to Ministers, a general half-
holiday, and a ball.
* # •
An advertisement in the Times annonnoes that
on 15fh October the screw-steamer Ceylon will start
from Southampton for an oceanic yachting cruise round
the world. The passage-money charged for the tour is
five hundred pounds, and everything is to be done in
the most complete and luxurious way. The route will
be first to Bordeaux, then to Lisbon, Gibraltar, up the
Mediterranean to Athens, thence to Constantinople :
after this, down the Suez Canal to the chief ports and
capitals of India and China, then to the Sandwich
Islands and San Francisco. At this last-named place
passengers will be able to quit the eteamer, and travel
right across the continent to New York j or, if they are
not sick to death of the whole business, they can remain
on the Ceylon, and make the tour of South America.
The time occupied will be exactly six months.
* # #
An engaged lady was telling her dearest friend
how clever “Charles” was “Yon should just see
some of his love-letters I " •' Yes, I know," was the
freezing reply, “ they’re splendid ; I’ve got a bushel of
them at home in my trunk.” Oh I the wretch I And
BOhe was; but not because of the letters—he had never
written one of that bushel. But the fact is, be found
he didn t like her so well as he thought he would, and
wonted to break it off, and that is how he managed it.
Ofoourse, it was not brutal; but as it cost him about
»o(X) less to make her break the engagement than to
break it himself, we can scarcely blame him, can we ?
• • •
On the invitations to Judge Harding’s mas-
querade ball at Brisbane, the other day, were printed the
conditions under which guests were snpposed to
attend, and the acceptance of the invite implied a
willingness to conform to them. Some were as follow •
Fa ?°y dress desirable, but not indispensable. Masks
and dominos insisted upon; persons without these
disguises not allowed to mingle in the masquerade.
Guests required to keep their identity concealed from
one another, even in the case of husbands and wives.
Participants supposed to dance every dance daring the
masquerade—which lasted from nine till midnight. No
pre-engagements to be made for any dances prior to the
twelfth. For two dances, partners to be decided by ladies
drawing from Fortune’s bag; for two more, by the
gentlemen doing so ; and for a further two by the
gentlemen, after a retirement from the room, taking
the first lady encountered on re-entering. The
masquerade was started by all singing a portion of the
“ft act of the “Pirates of Penzance." After the
twelfth dance, masks were laid aside, and the enter-
tamment was then continued as an ordinary fancy
dresslball, terminating with Sir Roger de Coverley.
• # •
Miss Bussell, of Maitland, whose paintings
were so favourably noticed some time ago by the
Sydney press, is continuing her studies, and has now
in hand some works which promise to be of unusual
merit.
• * *
A Bachelors’ private ball was held in the Town
Hall vestibule on Friday night. The ball was not
organised for charitable purposes, not for the benefit of
reformed prisoners, or for destitute iufants, or for any
other such deserving objects of sympathy. It was
inerely a social gathering of frienis, and an enjoyable
time was spent till 4 in the morning. Abont twenty-
eight dances were negotiated, including a "Novelty
Quadrille. The City Catering Co. provided in a way
that pleased everyone. This pretty vestibule, with its
many corridors and antechambers opening all roond, is
very commodious for a ball; and it cannot be generally
known that it is available and so well-suited for such
occasions, or it would surely bo more used. The
historic reminiscences associated with its various
apartments render them fall of interest. There is the
room in which Mr. M’Elhone sat down to reflect on the
morality of building contracts, after he had been poking
his penknife into the rubble-work at the baek. Here,
again, are walls adorned with frames of photographs!
oath one showing a Mayor in the centre of a brilliant
galaxy of City Fathers—like Jupiter sorronnded by his
sons—and which caused- so much trouble in conse-
quence of an inquisitive alderman wanting to know
‘ who paid for them ?” Further on is the sequestered
apartment where the officials beguiled the long and
weary hours in a harmless game of euchre—not know-
mg, poor fellows, in their innocence, that euchre is uot
considered an official game by the Corporation. And
so on ; not a room or passage that is not full of sug-
gestive ideas. The Town Hall will probably become a
favourite place for private balls and similar gaieties ;
and as the Corporation want money very badly, perhaps
it would not be so far wrong, after all, to say that any
hall held there is for a charitable object.
* * *
The Victoria House (Farmer's) Cricket Club had
its annual on Saturday at Tennyson. Large
attendance; dancing chief amusement, to the music of
Young Australian Band.
• # •
On Wednesday, 28th, Mrs. Martin, teacher of
dancing, was entertained by pupils and friends at a
complimentary party in the academy. The time-piece
and illuminated address were presented to her by a
young > gentleman who bad a terrific struggle with the
Queen s English in his efforts to deliver a speech The
hall was quite full, and did not empty till half-At one
in the morning.
* * *
The junior partner in a South Coast medical firm
has been and gone and done it, “ on the quiet.”
# # #
A Bachelors’ ball comes off at Coonamble to-
morrow, Friday. It seems it is not too hot yet, in
that oven of a place.
• « »
The Burwood Football Club closed the season
tea graceful manner a few days ago, by invil ing nearly
200 friends to a ball in the local School of Arts. Hall
well decorated with flags, evergreens, wreaths bearing
[ club s initials, and footballs “done” with streamers;
beauty and fashion present; music and refreshments
good; total result, a jolly evening. Dresses were ex-
ceptionally handsome. Two sisters from Parramatta
looked nice, and were in great demand; a beautiful
white satin dress trimmed with lily of the valley at-
tracted everyone's attention. Two Croydon sisters in
black did not look quite so nice as on previous occasions
(this is a compliment, if carefully looked at). A young
lady from Glebe Point in blue, one all in black, and one
in old gold, were charming. A cream dress, with black
Spanish lace draped over the skirt and looped up, was
effective; and a married lady of the district, in black
bodice and lace over white, looked and danced well.
Dissipation ceased at 3 a.m.
* # *
Last week a fair gentleman, occupying a re-
sponsible position in a George-street wholesale house,
was married to a fair lady, in presence of a large gather-
ing, at the Pitt-street Chapel. - The bride was in white
the eight bridesmaids in white crape with
head-dresses of white tulle and gold, and necklets of
white daises and gold leaves. The ceremony, though
brief, was most thoroughly performed, and the “ hnmid
.°* B °R affection," which usually concludes such
affairs, was imprinted with an emphasis that must have
been extremely gratifying to those immediately con-
cerned. Some forty guests attended the breakfast at
the house of the bride’s father, who is
A jolly old party,
A white-haired and hearty,
£ich, leather and hide old man,
in Bonrke-street. Honeymoon at Mount Victoria. It
is understood that the best man and the dark sister
who was chief bridesmaid will some day meet the same
melancholy fate.
* • #
The Benedicts of Blayney gave a ball on Tues-
day week, to some four-score friends, many from long
distances. No pains were spared by the ladies to make
their dresses as deadly as possible, some having been
sent from Sydney and Bathurst specially for the ball.
• # #
On the 26th ult. a ball (postponed from the 23rd,
on account of bad weather) was held at Eocky Mouth,
to celebrate the first anniversary of the M.U. Odd-
fellows’ Lodge. It was successful, the music being
good and the hall well decorated. Fair young lady in
white voted the belle. The “ rival scullers ” were there.
• • »
At Maitland Races the grand-stand contained
very few ladies. Of those present, a lady from Dncken-
Held wore a rich brocaded cream silk, and long train,
that showed to advantage on the promenade. A tall,
handsome lady appeared in pompadour silk, trimmed
with light blue, bonnet to match. A graceful daughter
of a house famous in the North wore a rich dark
pompadour, A rich brown silk, of artistic make,
looked well; and very effective was a costume worn by
a 'dashing blonde—navy blue, with |a tight, sleeveless
bodice of blue velvet. Two bright young daughters
of a well-known sportsman wore white lustres. There
were several pretty dark dresses, and Mother Hubbard
hats seemed in favour.
* • •
At Bathurst the local band organised a ball on
the 28th ult. The attendance was moderate, but the
fun was kept going till the morning was at hand.
* « #
Last Thursday, Mrs. Smith gave a ball in the
School of Arts, Bathurst. Some guests were invited
from Sydney.
* * *
Mr. Heinz opened his new Pacific Pavilion at
Bondi by a private ball, on .Saturday. It is large, well
situated, and has additional advantages in a balcony,
billiard-room, skittle-alley, cloak rooms. Sec. If
kept select, it will fill a want at Bondi, and deserve every
success.
* * *
Fern Bay was occupied by a private party,
numbering a little over five score, on Saturday last.
The Osprey conveyed them to and from that picturesque
little place. A nice pic-nio and good dancing were en-
joyed, and all returned to town at dusk.
VANITY FAIR.
At Long Branch, a fashionable American water-
ing place, ladies bathe in fancy costumes of the
extremest kind. Here is the description of a well-
known actress. She issued from her dressing-room in
a sea-green, spun-silk, jersey-fitting costume, with a
short skirt embroidered in imitation of coral, and a
pert little turban of turkey-red upon her head. Her
stockings, the same colour as her dress, were elabor-
ately worked with scarlet, and a pair of green kid
sandals were kicked off on the beach. The costume
fitted so tightly and smoothly that the wearer looked
more like a piece of sea-green blanc-mange just out of a
mould than anything else At an English wedding, a
few weeks ago, daisies appeared in all the decorations.
The bride’s white duchess satin was embroidered with
them, and her veil was fastened with pearl daisies, and
her bridesmaids wore gowns of white nuns’ cloth and
satin embroidered with daisies, and daisy bonnets and
brooches, and carried bouquets of natural daisies pre-
sented by the bridegroom Nearly a thousand parsons
were present at the garden party given by Lady
Burdett-Coutts, at Highgate, to the International
Medical Congress. He made a very good host Mr.
A. Leveson-Qower, of H.M. Diplomatic Service, who
was married at Westminster to Miss C. Foljambe, was
served with a summons when he returned from church
after the ceremony, for cantering across Clapham
Common with 'i is bride During last yachting season,
afternoon dan cs were given on board the vessels in
Portsmouth Harbour nearly every day A custom is
becoming very common now of school-managers taking
their pupils en masse to make lake and alpine tonrs on
the Continent An'account of a London aesthetic ball
says:—“ The favourite colours are peacock blue in a
dull shade, sage green, terracotta red, and bright
saffron colour. Most of the ladies had their hair cut
short, and pulled out in wisps to look like the person-
ages in mediaeval illustrations. The materials em-
ployed were mostly crape, cashmere, and thin Chinese
silk, with here and there a heavy satin. The wearers
of these wonderful robes posed about the room in a
limp and backboneless manner, leaning up against
doorposts on convenient pieces of furniture in attitudes
more or less marvellous to behold, bat all in the
floppy style. In fact, to be truly aesthetic, one
must have neither a backbone nor back hair ;
cropped locks, and a tendency to double up on
the smallest provocation being essential.’’
Hats. One of the newest forms is the Condd. This
hat is round, with a garland of small feathers all round
it, falling over the edges of the brim. Then there is
the Edcamier, with a very wide open brim, a piece being
out out of the back to admit the chignon being seen.
Under this wide brim wreaths of beautifully-made
flowers are tucked, the top of the hat being covered
with clouds of web-like lace. The Radclyffe, large and
raised on one side under a mass of flowers, has a large
shaded feather on top. A large feather is also some-
placed under the brim, falling upon the hair. The
effect of this is very good, softening the expression of
the face and, if the colour of the feather is judiciously
chosen, heightening the gold or brewn tints of the hair.
Mousseline-de-soie, or “silk muslin," is becoming
popular in England. It is a kind of idealised foulard,
but more airily delicate, very light shades ef blue, pink,
and green being in favour. The beauty of the texture
adds to that of the colouring, the soft sheen of it ren-
dering the tints more subtly subdued. A pretty dress
in this “ silk muslin” was of stiver grey, the trimming
consisting of gathered flounces to the hips, where a
scarf after the usual fashion was tightly swathed. The
bodice was edged with slender silver fringe, and silver
cord laced it down the back. A small capote of the
grey mousseline.de soie accompanied this dress, with
an exquisite uunch of pelargoniums at the side
A very pretty costume noticed recently was of fawn-
coloured cashmere and satin. The polonaise and
bodice were of cashmere, slightly drawn and trimmed
down the front with silk lace. The front opened about
eighteen inches from the ground, showing a deep kilt-
ing of the satin. The sleeves and collar were also
trimmed with the lace. Another costume had alternate
flowers of cherry pattern and cream-print on a cream-
print skirt, with a short puffed polonaise Flannels,
light of fabric, but dark of colour, are now made for
summer dresses. Flannel, if of light texture, is quite
as cool as cotton, and much healthier to wear. It keeps
the sun from penetrating below, while cotton does not
spare the shonldres a single ray Feathers are now
banished from bonnets and bats to rugs and parasols.
Some parasols have whole birds on each section, others
only the wings and breasts. All the feathers point
downwards, so as to give the rain a natural conductor
earthwards if the holder is canght in a shower At
the Sandown races an aesthetic lady was attired in a
flimsy yellow green silk gown, in long straight folds,
one frill ronnd the bottom, one hnge puff at the top of
each sleeve, a large black hat surmounted the wan face
and sad eyes, and a languid lily was fastened at the
throat. A more dismal, inanimate, expiring-looking
object, aesthetic so-called, has seldom been seen.
THE NEWSLETTER.
An ,£B,OOO fire at Bxmdaberg (Q.), Tuesday.
After a calm comes a storm. More small-pox.
Ministers visited Nepean waterworks Tuesday.
The No. 1 Ida, Maytown, Palmer Riyer (Q.), has
struck 7oz. stone.
Coffee is being most successfully cultivated at
Rosewood Scrubs, Queensland.
More deaths from typhoid fever at Goulbnm—
this time in a local doctor’s family.
In a fortnight, seven men and one women sui-
cided in Adelaide and neighbourhood.
The Far Northern anti-Mongolian argument:—
“ Chinese don’t buy from us; why should we buy from
them ?”
Constable MTntyre, of Kelly celebrity, to be
granted £52 yearly, in addition to his £4O retiring al-
lowance
A man named Howe, under remand for larceny,
escaped from Gympie gaol by squeezing himself through
a hole only ten inches square t
The S. M. Herald and the Evening News
now receive the same special service of cable messages,
sharing with the Melbourne Argus.
A child of 3, son of Mr. J. L. Hall, Durran
Durran, Braidwood, was bitten by a snake on the ankle,
last Sunday and died a few hours afterwards.
Tram accident at Rand wick on Sunday. A
young man, Robert Bowden, sustained a contusion of
the hip; Arthur Kidney, a boy, suffered fracture of
both thighs.
Dudley W. Mair, a elerk in the employ of the
A.M. P. Society, has been sentenced to two years’ hard
labour for forgery. Mair, who is a well-connected
young man, pleaded guilty.
Skuthorpe has offered the “ Leichhardt Relics ”
to Victoria fer £6OOO. Reply: Cannot be entertained
unless the authenticity of the discovery be reliably
established by competent authority.
Mr. Elsdon, Victorian Railway Engineer-in-
Chief, ended on to explain his evidence re the late smash
at Jolimont; alas the departmental disorganisation as
shown by the report of the Board in Ford’s case.
A paper of the Charivari order, entitled the
Laughing Jackass, was to appear at Rockhampton
last Saturday. That clever artist, Mr. W. G. Martin,
is understood to be the prime mover in the affair.
The Deputy Surveyor-General of S.A., with
the Government Geologist and a party, have started
out to investigate the best plan of water conservation
for the Far North. The trip will occupy 6 months.
It is said that Michael Minton, the desperado
who recently escaped from Braidwood gaol, is located
in the wilds of the Jingera country—the locality in
which, by the way, his associates, the Clarke brothers
(subsequently caught and hanged), murdered Sergeant
Carroll and others.
A Healesville (Vic.) storekeeper, Thomas King,
Save a selector, Kenny, with whom he had some laud
ealings, some cake at lunch, which Kenny, instead of
eating, took home to his children. His son, aged 13,
died after eating the cate, and his daughter is seriously
ill. Some bread and butter subsequently given by King
is being analysed
The roads between Raymond Terrace and the
Copeland are about the worst in the colony. Contracts
of £5O have been over seven months in hand—all
through the absurd system of letting them to
farmers. Vexation and loss are the experiences of
every traveller. Has the superintendent suicided, or
when will he be liberated ?
The barque Prince Victor, from Maryborough
to Melbourne, cedar laden, was thrown on her beam
ends and water-logged during the gale of Friday last,
off Cape Hawke. The Governor Blackall sighted the
vessel during Saturday, but was short of coal and
unable to help. The Keilawarra passed the men in the
boat off Cape Hawke, but did not notice their signals.
The cook has probably perished.
His Honor Mr. Justice Hargrave has resigned.
It is said that the Attorney General doesn’t want the
vacancy, for which Mr. G. C. Davis, now on his way
back from England, Mr. ex.Distriot Court Judge Simp-
son, and —ahem! —Sir Joe, are mentioned as candidates.
In the event of the Fijian knight finding himself on
the Bench, Mr. Salomons, it is said, would be Minister
of Justice, but this latter story doesn’t bear the impress
of probability.
The revenue of N.S.W. for the September
quarter is greater than that of the corresponding
quarter of last year by nearly half-a-million. The
exact sum is £185,855. The principal increases are :
Auction sales, £51,794; purchase by virtue of improve-
ments, £66,156; selections after auction, £65,561;
Deposits on conditional purchases, £92,358; spirits,
£27,262; specific duties. £21,238; railway receipts,
£76,259; and postage, £23,416.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Muss.—Adv.
It is intended to hold a competitive examination,
not earlier than the end of December next, with a view
to the admission of youths as volunteer draftsmen in
the Surveyor-General’s Office. Candidates must bn not
less than 16 years of age; they will be examined in
English grammar, writing from dictation, aritumetio,
and geometry ; and a selection will be made from their
number in order of merit, according to the requirements
of the department. Volunteer draftsmen are required
to serve without pay, the instruction given to them
being considered an equivalent for services performed.
The Acting Chief Commissioner of Victorian
Police has received from the Scotland Yard authorities
in London a communication, asking for information
respecting what steps are being taken in Melbourne to
control that ugly feature in the city life of all large
centres of population, known as “the social evil.”
The communication received states that, owing to the
great difficulty experiei ced in London in dealing with
this awkward question, it has been resolved to obtain
information from all quarters, to assist in an effort
that is to be made in bringing about a sweeping re-
formation.
What may happen to a liberal man. Mr. W.
Gardiner (W. (Gardiner and Co.) has offered four silver
cups, each valued at fifty guineas—two of which are
challenge prizes fer rowing, and two for cricket. They
are expected to arrive from England about the end of
the year. This was duly announced in the Sydney
prigs, but the D. N. Argus of 16th September, in a
telegram from its own correspondent at Sydney, inti-
mates that “ Mr. Gardiner, the head of the hrm of
Gardiner and Co., Sydney, has been prosecuted for
not paying duty on four silver cups worth £5O each—
two lor racing and two for cricket.” As no one here
has ever accused Mr. Gardiner of anything of the kind
it is plain that the D. N. Argus’s misstatement must
have occurred through a telegraphic error.
A writer in Vanity Fair has decided to let
people know in plain English what the principal patent
medicines are made of, and what they are worth in
actual money. He will also show that anyone may
easily make at home the greater part of the compounds
for which such high prices are paid He says:—"l
paid four shillings and twopence for one bottle of a
stuff which has been most daringly advertised. I found
the ingredients innocent enough, bnt the actual value of
the extractive matter was fivepence One or
two of the patent medicines are really excellent- •
and I wiU praise Ihem without stint. “boa.t
not excellent (and there are a few of which tha t? ***
is doubtful) may ex< ect fair treatment. Whether}?®
proprietors wUI like fair treatment is a matt» .ij“?
which I have my doubts.” ter aboQ t
It is believed that not less
cmshmg machines will be at work on Nana K oldfl«u
within the next half year. Wonderful interest ia™-
tested in the field by the Clarence people? and aWi''
there are 400 men on the grouncL Two fo Ur hn^ y
passenger coaches run to the spot weekly Sv<w!
people are totally ignorant of the existence of theffeirt*
the metropolitan press having taken little notice of it
SmaU, bharp. and party, of the prospector's claim
hare received their machine at Grafton, from Svdne.
and have calkd tenders for its removal to ana erection
at the diggings; and Driscoll. Dickey, and party have
called tenders for the removal from Solferino and ere?
tion at Nana Creek of the machine lately purchase!
from the Tower Hill Gold Mining Company Tha
trial stuff assayed at the Mint yielded over 20oz! to the
The Treasury published the statement of re.
ceipts and disbursements for the quarter ended 30th
September in the morning papers of the Ist October
This is an extraordinary feat, and the smartness of the
mocials, on previous occasions caused a neighbouring
colony to send over a Treasury representative to see
how it was done. An officer of one of our banks
speaking to a Treasury clerk, inquired about the matter’
to which the latter replied, “ Simply this, old fellow •’
we know how many twice two makes without referring
to a ‘Lightning Calculator’ or the ‘Book-keeper’s
Assistant.* ** In the face of the large increase of
revenue (nearly half-a-million for the last quarter as
compared with the corresponding quarter of 1880) we
trust that members will not squander the public time
in haggling over small increases to the salaries of de-
serving Civil Servants. We congratulate Mr. Eat*-,
aud Mr. Pearson upon this marvellous feat—they can't
do it in England, even. J
How easily a man can have a spotless reputation
blackened like a police-court wall, is exemplefled in the
case of our friend Dick Thatcher. While Dick and the
celebrated actress. Miss Ada Ward, were staying
in Weymouth, England—fulfilling an engagement—
their landlady’s daughter became mother of a child
without having gone through the usual church pre-
liminaries. The bantling thrived, and in the full-
ness of their kind hearts the celebrated actress and
♦he equally celebrated agent (whose relationship we
can solemnly state on undeniably authority was
simply one of true friendship and mutual esteem, de-
termined to bestow their illustrious names on it, and
accordingly one bright Sunday afternoon the godfather
and godmother, with the mother and babe, repaired to a
quiet church, about a thousand years old, and there
the little stranger received the euphonious cognomen
of •* Ada Bichmond Osgood." But mark the sequel to
and consequence of this kind act of nomenclature!
Dick and Ada went abroad, and the wicked old grand-
mother of the infant hit upon an expedient whereby
her daughter’s fair name might be retained at their ex-
pense. She coolly set it about that the child was tha
progeny of the actress and her agent; and the affair
having at first sight a feasible appearance, it got into
print in England. Miss Ward, however returned, and
the old lady had to reckon with no common boat,
and make the most abject apologies. We give circula-
tion to the report and its denial, as some of our readers
may have heard the former only. Miss Ward returns
to Australia by the r orata, which is expected shortly
at Adelaide, and she has empowered Mr. Thatcher to
make arrangements for her through the colonies.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
S.P. : Far better let it go to the A. J.C. or
Y.K.C. than to the Supreme Court. In the latter case
you may be tried by half-a-dozen debilitated drunkards,
three Sunday school teachers, and three men who’ve
either just come out of gaol or ought to be sent there.
No, send your case to white men who have characters
to lose, and can’t afford to be rogues “ P.L.E.”:
Very welcome Received “A.8.M.”:
Too vague “ J.W.": Just tne style of thing we
require “J.C.E.” In last issue “C.H.Q.": We
shall always be glad to hear from you “Nerelie”:
111-natured, rather, isn’t it? “C-—sD ” (Wat-
son’s Bay): Noticed elsewhere “T.KB.": That
governess yarn is rather old. Try again “ Subscri-
ber” (Adelong): Worry together another item
“ Uncle John”: Tour first verse swings along well
enough—
-11 Spread out your sails, ye gallant tars.
And bear me o’er the sea.
Back to Australia’s sunny shores.
Oh, that’s the land for me.”
The next, however, won’t gee at all “ E E.M.”
“The Aboriginal s Fate” has, in this instance, been the
waste paper basket. You see, “roamed” does not
rhyme with ‘‘home,” nor “down” with “sound.”
“The hunter with erected fame" is good, only you
forget to mention whether the fame was erected by a
Town Hall contractor. No, no, dear boy, your lines
give evidence that you have a poetic feeling, and can
enjoy the poetry of others; but stand at that.
You will probably be all your life “a dumb
poet," but there’s no harm trying, and if you
improve substantially we’ll give yon a show
“Common Sense”: You must.indeed.be a poor crea-
ture. Had you ever seen the Sisters of Mercy at work
—had you ever had them wait on yon in an hospital,
you could never allege that the man who respects and
admires them must necessarily be a Fenian. And if
you won’t accept our view of the matter —a view
founded on much experience and observation —you
might take that of the members of the medical pro-
fession of Sydney, who are not only competent to form
an opinion, but are perfectly unprejudiced, since
two-thirds of the cleverest doctors don’t attach
themselves to any of the current creeds
“Uncle John": You ask for a candid criticism cn*
your poem. We can’t bring ourselves to give it. We
wouldn’t like to hurt your feelings “ Wire Nail
Your bad English and lawyer’s Latin are in the dust- ,
hole “A W.U.’’: Much obliged, but we can’t give
mere rumours in such oases “ C.Y."; No, thanks
“Vectis": Thanks. When you wish to draw our atten-
tion to a newspaper article, kindly clip it (keeping
attached the heading and date-line of the journal)
and putitjnnder cover “ Reader ” (Bathurst): Two
items used. The paternity of the babe you allude to
is no doubt a matter of importance to the babe and
its ma, but does not interest the public “W.H.B":
Many thanks “ A.L.H." : Send us items that we can
understand. What do we know about “ That Bourke-
street belle ?” “ Jas. C —1” : You are not likely to
earn many millions on The Bulletin, or any other
paper, if yon will persist in writing with a blunt pencil
on both sides of greasy paper “Motus": If yon
will call on us, w„ will give you a letter to Dr. Manning.
Yours is th- kind of poetical genius that requires the
soothing influence of the shower-bath and seclusion......
“ Anguish" : You are evidently one of those lackbrains
for whom tram- notors were invented. We commend
to your notice the curve in Liverpool-street, as a good
place upon which to lay your head when yon hear the-
cars coming. You need have no fear that your brains
will bo dashed out “Grafton": Good, but rather
long. We recommend you—
When you have an item got.
Of the country or the town.
Don’t spin it out a lot.
But toil if dawn,
" Pat Murphy" : Too feeble and too old. Have another
shy “ T»d C n’’: We have no doubt your joke is
original. We are self-denying enough, though, to de-’
dine it. You say you will send ns “ better jokes’’ next
time. Thanks; you can hardly help doing
that “J.W." : Thanks; just the thing we want...•••
“ Runner ’’: Nothing particularly funny in it “
A. B.”; Held over “W.C.P.”: Bather too cruel
" Nevar Lie.”. - Will keep for a week “ Gurt-na-
Mona ”: Don’t we ? “C. F.”; Yes, there is a charit-
able ring of the kind named “A. Parent ”: We U
probably be able by next week to read your communi-
cation “ Anvil Regent ”: Good, but long. Write on
one side of the paper only ; and yon will find an ordi-
nary pen easier to write with than a fire-stick....-■
J. H S." : Rather a thin yarn. Send along some social
stuff; and also something about the journalistic jars
of your fair city “Anvil": Again crowded out.
[Correspondence who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]


TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTII
W
HEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or v
the ruling principles at the
PALACE EMPO]
HAYMAEKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES a
the soundness of those principles upon which their business ii
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PALi
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We
JUR EXQUISITE SPRING- AND SUI
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A V
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASH-
ME EE. BEIGE, &c.
DRESSMAKING.
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an
and Is lOd per yard. Of the truly splend
there are 2000 yards at 2s per yard ; 2200 i
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3 cas
10s6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GR I
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s 6d
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are
it will be long before you forget them. T 1
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 2;
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH
yard. There is the fashionable SARA"
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, rei
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRE3SMAB
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly t
MANCHESTER There are CALICOES in all makes an
GOODS FIGURED from s*d; TABLE DAMASi
all prices, and COTTON DIAPER at6d;
Is 3d ; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ran*
from lOd up to Is 9d. There are TUI
HONEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED,
and the “ RENOWNED VELVET PILE,'
BOOTS AND SHOES
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The
for
laced.
They are durable and fashionable.
HEA T E E
Leasee
Treasurer Mr.
16th Week of th
LONDON OPERA COMIQI
TO-NIGHT,
MADAME FAVA
SATURDAY EVENING, C
LA PILLE DU TAMBO
Admission—ss, 3a, 2a, la.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture a
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, i
chased during the day at H. Soltan
King-street.
gYDNET OPEE-
Sole Lessee Mr. V
Director Mr. C
Business Manager Mr. V
FAREWELL V
of the celebrate
MONTAGUE-TURNER OPEI
Mr. W. J. WILSON has the hone
he has concluded arrangements wil
ME. CHARLES TU:
for a
FAREWELL WEEK of
at the above favourite Theatr
MONDAY, OCTOBI
and closing
SATURDAY, OCTOB
List of Operas to be produced
nounced.
Box plan now open at A. HUENI
street, where seats may be secured.
GO AS YOU I
HIPPODROME
GEAND CAENIVAL O
COMMENCING MONDAY,
LADIES-GO-AS-YOU-E
(for description see The I
ABORIGINALS-GOAS.YO
CHINESE
KANAKA
SHOWS FAIR
On WEDNESDAY, MR. LAWE
eminent scientist, and a list of tali
series of
GLOVE FIGHT,
and
SWORD COMBA'
Entrances received at the Be
THATCHEE AND A
SHOWMEN. APPLY FOE
gPECIAL N
LONDON ART SOCIETY, 191 W
SYDNEY.
The Australian Agent of this
pleasure in announcing the arriva
Magnificent STEEL ENGRAVING
SATURDAY, OCT
THE PICK OP MARRI
ALONG THE TRAMWAY I
Close to the Empress o
Close to the TRAMWAY TEI
Fronting GARNER
FRONTING MAREICKY
RICH SOIL,
SPLENDID SITUA
Mills, pile, and gilc
ceived instructions to sell b;
ON THE GROG*
ON SATURDAY, OC'
AT HALF-PA
That BEAUTIFUL SUBDIYI
NER’S PADDOCK, situate
of MARRICKVILLE, opp
and grounds of J. CALV]
MALAKOFF TOWERS ai
of GERALD HALLIGAN
PIN, Esq., and other of oni
THE POSITION OF THE Li
commanding fine views towards the
THE SOIL is rich, a large portio
rated as a herb garden.
THE SITUATION, is all that cai
the lots fronting the TR AMW AY
terminus, affording the best bush
district, all the land is high,
perfect. The estate comprises the
3 lots fronting MARRICKV
■I lofa firmf.in or SYDTINHAIW
Maccab e.-s choc
Fifth and LAST WEEK B 1
of that pre-eminent Yentriloquif
Delineator,
FEEDEEIC MACG
who, in consequence of prior am
pelledto bring to a termii
TEIUMPHANT CAEEEE I
where, during the last four weeks,
MOST BEILLIANT ENGi
ever known in this
MACCABE.-DAY ENTEt
SPECIAL NOTK
In compliance with the request
families, who reside at a distance, a
the crowds that attend the evening
Mr. FEEDEEIC MAC
POPULAE ENTERT-d
the management begs most respec
that a
GEAND MOENING PEEFOEMA
DULL CAEE " will t
On SATUBDAY NEXT, OCTOBI
In CONSEQUENCE of the SUC
CASE’S ENTEETAINMENT, sea
some days in advance at Mr. W,
store, George-street.
Admission —Fauteuils (numberec
first seats, 3s; second seats, 2s; th
ness Manager, Mr. F. E. Hiscocks,
Jj OO K O U
JO!
MERICAN
HAYMAEKEI
LAST WEEK, LAS
.lON FIRE
INSURANT
Limited.
Chief Offices—s LOTHBUET,
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital, £200,000. Eese
Annual Income
PIEE INSUEANCE on every des
LATE SPORTING.
Thirty-eight entries for the Dunedin Cup.
progress was scratched for the Melbourne Cup
on Monday.
The Sydney University Athletic Club sports
-innate Wednesday, 12th Oct. The programme in-
Xdesone-mile. four-mile. and 100 yards’ slow (last man
win) bicycle races.
Messrs W. G. Laidley and P. B. Walker, two
f the vice-presidents of the New South Wales Bowing
Association, have offered a silver goblet to be rowed for
onthe 15th by junior oarsmen in clinkers.
A meeting of the N.S.W. Bowling Association is
pnnvened for”this (Thursday) evening, to arrange club
matches for the ensuing season, and to select a team
for the Intercolonial, to be played in Melbourne next
month.
The Surrey United and the Nationals have ?to
n the campaign on Saturday for the Thomson
Challenge Cup. These clubs are about the best two in
for it, and it is strange that it has fallen to them to
commence the contest.
A massive salver, claret jug, and tea service, all
of solid silver, was presented to Michael Bush, the
Clarence Kiver sculler, on Monday evening. The cost
was over £2OO, and the amount was subscribed by his
friends and admirers.
The maiden four of the North Shore Rowing
Club for the Association Regatta will consist of Messrs.
Brindley. Little, Herman, and Weatherill, who, in the
words of an irreverent correspondent, “ are being put
through their facings by Billy Williams.”
The winners of the trophies at the Bonrbe-
street School Athletic Club sports are now, it is said,
opealto trade away their chances of the medals at
Vt;7TOoderate terms. We have no doubt that a specu-
lator with a quarter-cask of “ Tooth" could buy up the
lot.
AtNewcastle C.C. athletic sports, last Saturday,
the principal winners were John Wood and J. Johnson,
who, especially the latter, were in rare fettle. The
finish between Johnson and M'Dermott, in the half-
mile, the former winning by but a couple of feMTwas,
we hear, something to remember.
Lord Harris, during his stay in San Francisco,
organized a cricket match between his party and the
residents. The match was not finished, but his Lord-
ship made 6 and 40 in his two innings. The English
Eleven made 98 in the first innings, but the American
paper, from which we extract the news, with character-
istic modesty, does not say how many the local team
made.
A splendid gold and silver goblet, over 12 inches
high, solid and massive, subscribed for by a number of
Australian residents in London, has been received from
Major Sargood for presentation to the highest scorer
in any intercolonial cricket match of the coming season.
Three handsomely-designed silver cups, presented by
Major Sargood himself, have also been sent out for com-
petition amongst the various rifle teams of Victorian
volunteers.
Dick Thatcher has gone into still another line
of business. With his partner, Johnny Moore, he has
taken the Hippodrome, and on Monday will commence
what is termed a “ grand carnival.” In addition to a
ladies’ go-as-you-please—a wild 24-hours’ unsexing of
worn*, n—there will be races between Aboriginals,
Chinese and Kanakas ; and on Wednesday night the
great scientist and philosopher, Larry Foley, will ap-
pear in the fistic ring, with a host of other members of
the " fancy.”
The mile walking match, between J. Bishop and
C. Dunn, attracted a good few spectators in the vicinity
of Victoria Park, on Saturday afternoon last. The
match was for £6 a-side, and was walked on a capital
track of four laps to the mile at the top end of the
park. At the start Bishop was the favourite, but at
very slight odds. On the word being given to go, Dunn
went off at a good pace, and led by about six yards in
the first lap. Bishop, however, caught him up, and a
good race ensued for the next half-mile. Commencing
the last quarter, Dunn was leading four yards, but
Bishop spurting almost caught him. Dunn, however,
appeared the stronger, and after a capital race home,
won by a bare yard in Bmin 45sec.
The following are the conditions under which
the Krug Champagne Challenge Cup, value 100 guineas,
is to be rowed for The trophy is to bear the name of
the said French firm, and to be competed for by
amateur scullers (according to the Association rules)
from any colony er country, and to become the pro-
perty of the sculler winning for the second time. The
contests are to take place twice during the rowing
seasons (with the exception of the present season,
during which there has to be only one contest), at
dates to be fixed by the Association, with the approval
of the donor’s Sydney representatives. Each race is to
be rowed in outriggers, over the champion course on
the Parramatta, and two competitors at least are to
start.
The N.S.W. Coursing Club managed to get a
quorum at the second meeting; no less than eight gen-
tlemen attended. A cup of the value of 20 guineas was
offered, to be run for by the winners of the Derby and
Oaks. The following fixtures for next year’s programme
were made: —Bathurst Cup, 25th April and following
days; Dockairne Stakes, Derby, and Oaks, 24th May
and following days; St. Leger, Intercolonial Stakes,
and New Plumpton Stakes, 30th June and following
days; Puppy Stakes, Woodstock Plate, and Metropoli-
tan Stakes, Ist August and following days; Champion
Stakes, Cumberland Stakes, Consolation Stakes, and
several sapling stakes. Mr. Andrew Town presented a
cup, valued £25, which was added to the Intercolonial
Stakes
The sports in connection with the Goulbnm
Football Club came off on September 30, and were
attended by all the “ blood, bone, and beauty " of the
locality. Most of the prizes went to Belcher, junr.,
and Gannon, and some of them were prizes. The
quarter-mile, especially, according to a correspondent,
was never run in any part of the world for a less valu-
able consideration. It is said that, at Goulburn, they
think of replacing pewters by the classic wreath of
bays—or eucalypti. However, the prizes were much
enhanced in value by the fact that they were dis-
tributed by Miss Shepherd—perhaps the fairest and
fc most popular of Goulburn’s daughters. The obstacle
2frace created much amusement, one competitor having
» to swim the creek.
The N.S.W. Rifle Association have got the
Martini-Henry rifles at last, and have issued the fol-
lowing regulations, as a basis of selection for the
coming Intercolonial Bifle Match :—All volunteers who
may desire to take part are invited to send their names
to the secretary on or before the 7th October. From
them not less than 25 will be selected, who
will have to fire for place in the team. The selection
practices will take place on Saturday, the 12th, and
Monday, the 14th November, at 9 30 a.m. and 2 30 p.m.
on each day. The aggregate of the three highest out
of the four practices made by the 14 highest scorers
will be taken to decide. Each practice to consist of
seven shots at 300, 500, and 600 yards, one sighting
shot being allowed at each range.
Graham Nixon on the war-path again with his
pet business. He is now sole agent for that popular
Home Company—the Scottish Imperial Insxirance Com-
pany.
From an advertisement, it will be noticed that
Messrs. Henry A. Sheridan (formerly manager of the
Commercial Bank, Maitland) and James Fullford, of
West Maitland, have commenced business as stock and
share brokers, at 94 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, October 4,1881.
On the wharves to-day, prime green lucerne was selling
at £3 to £3 ss; ditto old hay, £2 10s to £3; medium
samples, £2 5s per ton. A good supply of hay arriving,
and business rather dull. Maize, 3s; oats, seed and
feed 2s 9d to 3s per bushel. Circular Head potatoes,
£3 15s to £4 • New Zealand ditto, £2 to £2 10s per ton.
Victorian onions, £l9 to £2O. Ditto chaff, £5 per ton,
bags inclusive. Butter, in keg.lOdto Is per lb Eggs,
8d to 9d per dozen. Bacon, 4d to 6d. Cheese, 6d to Bd.
Ham, 6d to 9d. Honey, 4id to sd. La-d, 4d to 4id.
Beeswax, 9d to 10d per lb. Millet Brooms, 9d to lOd
per dozen.
Wheat.— We notice that during the past few davs an
advance was paid on the prices now quoted by us.
Upon inquiry we do not think that higher than our
quotations are to be realized for any quantities, owing
to the prices of wheat and flour ruling in the Southern
markets. Adelaide wheat, 5s 9d ; New South Wales,
5s 6d to 5s 9d: New Zealand, ss: Victorian, 5s 6d;
Launceston, 5s 3d per bushel.
Flour is steady. Prices are :—For Sydney mill flour,
superfine, £l3 10s: household, £l2 10s; seconds, £ll
10s; New South Wales country brands, £l3 5s to £l3
10s; Victorian, £l2 10s to £l3 10s; Adelaide, £l3 to £l3
15s per ton. Bran and pollard, Is 2d to Is 4d per
bushel. _
Fat Cattle. —At Homebush fat stock sales, yesterday,
the market was firmer. The best lot of bullocks averaged
£8 12s; other lots from £5 3s lOd; cows at proportionate
rates. For prime beef 25s per 1001 b, and from 17s per
1001 b for other qualities.
Fat Sheep. —The market was 9d to Is easier. Prime
wethers, in wool, averaged 13s Id; best sheep, 14s to 14s
6d ; shorn wethers, 9s Id to 9s 7d.
Fresh Meat. —At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s sheds.
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh country killed
beef take place daily. A fair supply arriving, and sell-
ing freely. Prices are: —For prime beef, 2id to 2}d;
medium quality, Ifd to 2d per lb all round.
Poultry. —Fowls are selling at from 3s 6d to 4s per
pair ; ducks, 4s to 5s 6d; geese, 6s to 8s ; turkeys, from
8s to 14s, if good.


MOST RLE
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
0
WANTED TO
that the best cle:
TANT and Deodoriser fo
SMALL-POX and all othi
CONTAGIOUS I
can be found b
PANTEE AND PAEEY'I
v OF SOA
which not only contains
dients for the greatest c
ever yet introduced to
composed in its manufac
best disinfectants.
(MADE PUEELY FEO
PLANT!
known, and admitted in
throughout the globe. Co
it is free from all injur
pleasing smell, will not ir
cate hands, is the great
labour, rendering any art:
with of the purest whil
marvellous short space of
NO HOUSE SHOUKD I
as it cannot be surpasse
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Cro
Paint, Flo
and every Honsehc
DIEECTIONS. for whit
EACH PACKET, which
from all Grecers and Sto
out the Colony, and at the
WOEKS, 700 GEOE
SYD N 1
IN THE W.
Dispense Prescriptions cl
Other House in Sydney. A 1
Medicines at less than English
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sp
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGIST
Send f6r a Price List. Conn
ally attended to. Don’t forf
Yon cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New
W. KEI
MANUFACTUEING
WATCH AND CLO(
664 GEORGE STREI
Opposite St. Andrew
Medalslof every description. Mi
sentation Trowels designed
Premises,
DIAMOND SE’
A new and Choice Assortmer
• Mail and always i
Walthamr Watches, fri
KING STREET 1
ta ii ne
MARTIN <feP.
MARTIN A PAIN.
3S» QKORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
HORNSav
Steel Stripper
We sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year,
and every purchaser has sent us as good a testimonial at
it is possible to write.
COPIES OF THESE TESTIMONIALS POSTED TO EVERY ENQUIRER.
» FARMERS see the HORNSBY
BEFORE ORDERING ANT OTHER.
HORNSB
Are un
They are if
They are U
They are tl
They are if
They are A
They do thi
WE CALL Q
THEM jj
THE DRI
THE PIN
THE DRI
THE DRI
THE FINi
We Guar
farmei
No stlier
SEND
Sole m
Agents ■■
389 GE
rjIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in S;
THEY ABE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE.
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street.
And Or;
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOR
HERMITAGE.
YIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- per
SHIRAZ
MADEIRA
■) Fruity ]
j Wines S 1
BURGUNDY-) Dry T Ol/
RIESLING J Wines S l '
6. H. STEPHEN & C
Wine Growers and Mercl
13 Bridge Street
£JLIPFORD, LO
TEA IMPORT
EASTERN AND CO
MERCHANT
Receive regular conaignme
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qnali
Do. Indian Prize Me
CHUTNIES—Indian P:
PRESERVES—Indian .
COFFEE —Plantation ]
Do. „ P
Do. „ N
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and !
SAGO
PEPPER—White and 1
OFFICES 79 YOR]
AND AT
EDWARD STREET,
John d
IMPORTER (
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brass
Gasfittings, Globes, Eleotri
Butchers’ Brine
Iron, Brass, Coppe
and Lead Pipe,
119 LIVERPOOL STREi
8
16
h. l. sumr.Ei
ECONOMY IN CLC
—o—
SAVE 20 PER CENT. B 1
YOUR GOODS FR(
DIRECT IMPOR
THE PEOPLE'S
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO BEL P-ME I
sent to any part of the
•3" The particular attention
dents is requested to tl
Any style of Garment made
BUMMERFIEL
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAf
