

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7—No. 91.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1881.
A Shake in the Hat.
“ God sends moat and the Devil sends cooks.”
The raw material out of which to make Ministers
and Judges is abundantly provided, but it is the
Ministry who dish up the finished article. Mining
is a great industry in Australia. The laws which
regulate the pursuit are many and complex ; and,
besides the statutes, there are hundreds of points
of usage which only an expert can thoroughly
comprehend in their full and correct significance.
The population engaged in mining is very con-
siderable, and comprises men of education, energy,
and force of character. Even in the Legislative
Assembly there are some really representative
miners. Yet the Government have deliberately
entrusted the direction and management of this
leading industry to a surgeon. In reference to
Sir George Innes’s elevation, Mr. Webb re-
marked, in the course of the vapid debate on
recent appointments, that it does not follow that
because a man is a successful pleader he will make
a good judge. We may remark, en passant, that
it certainly does not follow that because a man is
an unsuccessful pleader he will make a bad
judge ; and it certainly does not follow that be-
cause a man is a successful surgeon he will make
a good Minister of Mines. The Government had
not only their own supporters, but the whole
House to choose from. They selected Mr.
Foster from the Opposition benches to be
Minister for Justice; and it should have been
equally possible for them to, at least, proffer the
portfolio of Mines to Mr. Copeland, an ex-
perienced and practical miner, and a man of
ability and independent temper. But it is, of
course, understood that in the Assembly there
exists at present no Opposition in the ordinary
political sense of the expression. There are no
party distinctions; there are mainly personal
antipathies, and Sir Henry Parkes has shown
that he '* brooks no rival near his throne.” That
a member is complaisant, not to say servile, is just
now a much more serviceable qualification for
office than that he should be able and, especially,
independent.
* # *
The tone of honorable members throughout the
discussion was singularly feeble and curiously
apologetic, with the exception of the speeches of
Messrs Buchanan and Forster. That of the
member for Mudgeo was less exaggerated than is
usual with him. Some expressions, indeed, were
overstrained, but, on the whole, it seems probable
that there will be a responsive feeling to Mr.
Buchanan’s declaration that the Government
have lowered the status of the judicial bench,
and that the whole country would regard
the appointment just made as discreditable
alike to the gentleman who had accepted the
position and to the Government who had offered
it to him. In illustration of the feeble
and apologetic tone of comment made, we may
quote those of several members. Mr. Abbott,
for example, was pleased to state that ho didn’t
think a better appointment could have been made
to the office of Minister of Mines than that of
Dr. Berwick ; but Mr. Abbott did not explain
why the appointment seemed so superlatively
good in his eyes. While the country is wrapped
in astonishment as to what heretofore unknown
gifts or acquirements, in relation to administration
of mining affairs, the little doctor is endowed
with, it was at least incumbent on anyone who
was possessed of information which would render
the selection intelligible, to declare it in the
plainest and fullest manner possible. All that
outsiders have been able to recognize in Dr.
Benwick’s parliamentary career has been a
pliant and flexible docility and readiness to take
his oath to anything Sir Henry Parkes but
hinted. If Mr. Abbott has special information,
which is to him convincing evidence that Dr.
Eenwick is an expert in mining affairs, or pos-
sesses a genius for administration, it would have
been a real kindness to the new Minister, and
truly serviceable to the Government and to the
country, to enlighten ignorant people as to the
nature of the evidence within his knowledge.
# * #
With respect to Sir George Innes’s elevation
to the Bench, the case is even more serious. Not
a single apologist even attempted to blink the fact
that Sir George has never attained eminence at
at the Bar, even backed, as he has been, by his
tiidp, his wealth, and his connections. The entire
drift of his backers has been that he may not
make so poor a judge as ho has been a pleader.
This is true. He may not. But the like argu-
ment would apply with equal force to every third-
rate barrister hanging briefless round the law
courts. There exists, happily, a noble traditional
feeling,which surrounds the Bench in every British
community with an atmosphere of self-obliteration
and judicial integrity. This is about the only one
among many grand and nobly operative senti-
ments, belonging to the heroic times of British
history, which has been transplanted to these
colonies. Its influence has not yet greatly faded,
even here. Partial, passionate, and even corrupt
political lawyers have here, as in Great Britain,
cast their slough on stepping on to the Bench, and
have been transfigured into unbiassed, calm, and
upright judges. But a tradition or a sentiment,
however deeply rooted, —however strongly sup-
ported by universal esteem and sanction —cannot
be expected to resist for ever, unimpaired, a
long series of directly antagonistic influences.
If, in almost every instance, men are chosen for the
ermine on account of their powerful talents and
their elevated personal qualities, the intrusion of
an occasional judge who has shown no such quali-
fications might not affect the general average at
all. The association with a majority of men of
lofty ideals, the influence of tradition and of
public expectation, would all combine to assimilate
the lesser to the greater ; and the corrupt, weak,
or incapabable judge would insensibly be purified
by the example of his judicial brethren, strength-
ened by the opportunities for learning of them,
and trained to competence by constantly partici-
pating in their joint deliberations.
* * *
But if, on the other hand, the old style of judges
were methodically replaced, as they became super-
annuated, by men chosen from merely private and
personal motives, until the antique type had been
altogether obliterated or even placed in a minority,
it would necessarily follow that the tone of the
Bench, as a whole, would suffer, and justice be
polluted at its very fount. We do not, by any
means, design to apply to the appointment of Sir
George Innes these remarks in their unqualified
purport. Sir George does not appear either a
corrupt or an impotent man. He has given proof
of fair abilities, and may bo credited with good
intentions. These constitute a promising founda-
tion upon which to build hopes that he may
develop into a respectable judge. But the selection
of a man for so tremendous a responsibility should
certainly not be based upon mere hopes. For
judges of the Supreme Court, the country requires
its very best men. We have always maintained
that the 'remuneration should be made such as
would top the legal market, and command the
services of the pick of the Bar.
* * #
The Government cannot, however, plead that it
is the slenderness of the judicial salaries, when
compared with the earnings of a first-rate bar-
rister, which has compelled them to limit their
choice to a third-rate practitioner. Before they
could adduce this plea, it would be requisite for
them to show that the position had been tendered
to the moat distinguished men at the Bar. This
they have not done. They have only tendered it
to their own Attorney-General, and even Mr.
Wisdom, respectable as are his abilities, has no
pretensions which will bear scrutiny to stand in
the very first rank.
Mr. James Inglis.
The gentleman whose portrait we give to-day is,
although not an Australian colonist of long stand-
ing, already better known than many men who
have passed their lives among us. It is as a
literary man that Mr. James Inglis has won his
highest distinctions, although he may have been
recently more prominent as Commissioner for
India at the Melbourne Exhibition. Mr. Inglis
comes of a decent Scotch stock. He is emphati-
cally a “Son of the Manse.” His great-grand-
father, his grandfather, and his father were all
ministers. The last named, the Rev. Robert
Inglis, of Edzell, was well-known in his day as a
learned man, and liberal writer and thinker ; and
was wedded to a daughter of one of the donee old
seafaring families of the East of Scotland—the
Brands of Montrose. Mr. James Inglis is one of
the eight survivors of a family of thirteen, all
making their way reputably in life. The eldest of
the family was, like the subject of this notice,
somewhat of a rover, and was one of the pioneers
of Bendigo and Ballarat. Another brother is the
Hon. A. B. Inglis, of Calcutta, ex-President of
the Bengal Chamber of Commerce, and a member
of the Lieutenant-Governor’s Council. Mr. James
Inglis was educated at the Normal School, Moray
House, Edinburgh, and at the Edinburgh Uni-
versity, where, under the late Professor Aytoun,
Professor of Belles-Lettres, and celebrated as
author of the “ Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers”
and part author of the “ Bon Gaultier Ballads,”
his mind received a literary bent, which it has
over retained. In 1862, Mr. Inglis took chief
honours at the Edinburgh School of Arts, receiv-
ing a special prize for composition. For two
following sessions, Mr. Inglis studied medicine ;
but an invitation from relations in New Zealand
to cast lis lot with them, changed his purpose,
and in 1861 ho made his first acquaintance with
colonial life as a “ jackeroo ” on the Otaio Station,
the property of his cousins, Thompson Brothers.
After a while, one of these went into Parliament,
and the property was disposed of. Young Inglis,
then thrown on his own resources, joined in the
Hokitika rush, and experienced all the ups
afld downs of a digger’s life. During this
period, however, his literary culture asserted
itself, and he was a frequent contributor to
Cassell’s Magazine, the Quiver, Chambers’
Journal, and other home and colonial periodicals.
In 1866, he received advices from his brother in
Calcutta that an Indian career offered bettor in-
ducements than an unsettled life in the colonies,
and accordingly, in 1866, we find him arriving in
Calcutta in the thick of the dread famine of
that year, and an opening at once presented itself
in the famous indigo district of Tirhoot. Among
such congenial society as the Behar indigo planters,
Mr. Inglis soon became a prominent man. Ho
threw himself with characteristic ardour and
enthusiasm into every department of a planter’s
life ; and amid the distractions of sport, military
service, estate management, and tropical farming,
did not neglect the gentler pursuits of literature.
Hb soon became known all over India as one of
the most constant contributors to the Oriental
Sporting Magazine ; and in 1873, at the solici-
tation of his friends, he collected and published,
in a neat volume, his sporting verses, under the
title of “ Tirhoot Rhymes”—Wyman, Calcutta.
At this time he spent a well-earned holiday in
visiting nearly every town of note in India, and
travelled in Egypt and Abyssinia as special cor-
respondent. With increasing years and experi-
ence Mr. Inglis found ample scope for his energies
in more onerous and responsible posts. Tempted
by much higher pay and a more extended juris-
diction he, early in 1874, took charge of largo
estates belonging to the Agra Bank in Northern
Bengal; but the climate was so deadly that in
1875, after a harrassing year of famine work and
village settlement, his health began to break down,
and he had to go home for a change of air. By
the end of that year wc find him back again in
Oudh, in upper India, in charge of an enormous
territory, held under the Waste Lands Regula-
tions, and under his vigorous management vast
tracts ©f forest land were reclaimed, villages
were founded, factories were established,
machinery introduced, and much honest settlement
encouraged. Large numbers of his old cultivators
inTirhcot followed him to his forest domain ;*lbut
the work of clearing land in India is of a deadly
character. Again the jungle fever forced its
claims to notice on the frame of the sturdy pioneer.
A change of air and hot sea-baths in Bombay were
cried, but the fever was not to be shaken off. Mr.
Inglis became so reduced thac his life was
despaired of, and as a last resource his doctors
advised a return to the scene of his early struggles;
and in 1877 he set sail for New Zealand, intending
to try the hot springs there. He had never for-
gotten his first love for the Australian colonies;
and during his Indian career had many a time
devoted his pen to the task of stimulating the
attention of Indian residents to Australia as a
retiring ground after the heat and burden of an
Indian career. Ho was entrusted by the spirited
proprietors of the Pioneer with a roving com-
mission as special correspondent to write up these
c domes ns a field for Anglo-Indian capital and
enterprise, and he entered into his new role with
his accustomed spirit. In 1878 his, in our opinion,
best work, “ Sport and Work on the Nepaul
Frontier,” was published by Macmillan and Co.
While this was in the press, Mr. Inglis had so far
recovered health in the Australian climate as to
be fit for active work again. He found his next
employment in presiding over the destinies of the
Newcastle Morning Herald. He aooneatab*
lished himself as a firm favourite in the coaly dis-
trict. In 1880, his London publishers produced his
latest work —•“ Our Australian Cousins,” which
has been favourably reviewed; and if report
speaks truly, we may soon hope to see
another book on sport in India from
his prolific pen. As a magazine and press
writer, Mr. Inglis has made his mark. To the
Government of India he has, as their Executive
representative at Melbourne, sent up a voluminous
report on the possibilities of a much extended
trade between India and Australia. Enthusiastic
in experimental gardening and farming, at his
residence, near Sydney, he has conducted many ex-
periments with Indian crops : and has lately been
instrumental in introducing cinchona plants, rust-
proof wheat seed from Upper India, and has
demonstrated practically that Indigo, spices,
tumeric, safflower, and many other Indian products
may be successfully grown hero. He is ever will-
ing to communicate all ho knows on these and
MR. JAMES INGLIS.


kindred topics. Mr. Inglis has been compli-
mented by such a good judge as Sir John Robert-
son, lately, as being a good public speaker. As
Commissioner for India, Mr. Inglis has been largely
instrumental in drawing the attention of the
Calcutta tea interests to the Australian colonies
as likely to be good customers ; and his own faith
in the ultimate establishment of commercial rela-
tions between the two great British dependencies,
has been so pronounced as to induce him to
engage in the enterprize of introducing to this
colony the pure teas of India, as representative
here of the Calcutta Tea Association.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mendicant Young Men.
The Young Men’s Christian Asssociation of Sydney
is sorely in need of funds. It requires a new house, a
new hall, a home—for it is nought less than a home it
professes to give to all who accept its benign protection.
Now, in the present state of Sydney, and under the
especial protection of Providence, it is a matter of
surprise that the Association should be in want of
anything whatever. It consists of six hundred young
men, all rejoicing in the strength of their youth; six
hundred pious and prosperous young men—sedate young
men, mark you—not by any means knock-about-tho-
shanties young men, but serving-the-LoRD-and-expect-
ing-to-be-fed young men; and evidently of opinion that
the Loan does not servo them qnite as well as He ought,
or otherwise without more ado He would hnild them a
house, they being quite unable or very unwilling to
build one for themselves. To the philosopher, there is
something unutterably sad in the impecunious condition
of this gallant six hundred. It appears that any other
six hundred wanting a house and a home would bo pre-
pared to build it at a cost of six hundred or six or
sixteen thousand pounds, and within a single year, and
without inordinate effort. Let ns turn for illustration
to the School of Arts, an institution which does not
obtain so much from Government in any year as the
so-called home of religion from outside donations.
Wo see the one, stalwart, vigorous, self-supporting,
with a magnificent library, a splendid hall, a well-kept
reading-room—a fair staff of attendants and instructors
stretching hands of assistance In every direction, and
lifting many a straggler to higher ground and safer
holding. The other crawls along with a perpetual wail
of “ Caritas! Caritas I” or makes its big bung in a
down-the-harbour picnic—or, as upon a recent occasion,
induces a very noble man to stir men’s minds by the
fire!of strange eloquence, and then sends round promis-
sory notes attached to prayer and praise programmes,
audja request “Of your charity, help us, with somcjsmall
donation.” This is assuredly a very contemptible state
of affairs to all concerned. The institution, beyond all
doubt, holds latent powers for goo I t but before they
will begin to grow, its members have to learn, and to
give proof that they have learned, that Christianity is
not apart from manhood, and that one of the first duties
of a man is to provide his own house.
The Spirit of the Times.
Mankind generally is singularly apish. Stage by stage,
from the apex to the base of the social structure, men of
lower degree travesty the manners of their betters—
and the few who stand out, content (nay, proud) to be
themselves, behold around a multitude of grinning
mimes. Acknowledging this fact, it becomes a matter
of paramount import that the head of the system be
sound and pure. If it be rotten or foul, we have the
whole body politic aping corruption and filth; and, con-
sequently, a period of absolute sterility, as regards all
rational growth or of profitable advancement, that will
recoil in future disaster and distress. Not alone when
jdie chief man of the State is corrupt, is danger to be
apprehended. If he be of tyrannic or despotic or auto-
cratic temperament, or inflated with swelling ignorance,
or puffed with the presumption of foolish self-import-
ance, the State is in terrible danger. The little leaven
of the one big man’s spirit will a B suredly leaven the
whole lump, and the State will become cankered by the
universal infusion of that one man’s cankered soul.
Local illustration of these premises is very close at hand.
Most of us are familiar with the monarchic disposition
of the Premier of New South Wales. We know that he
has very literally adopted the Bourbon axiom, “L’itat,
e’eef moi and thus it is not a matter of surprise to see
his immediate henchman, the ox-Minister of Justice,
standing upon his prerogative, and deliberately endeav-
ouring to ruin a man, a policeman, because that police-
man had checked him, the Minister, in committing a
a breach of the law: —and the ordinary policeman,
being thus instructed, we find him, without surprise,
arresting a gentleman upon the pavement for daring to
be in such a place at such an hour, in oppositien to
the policeman’s autocratic will. Next, the gaoler, the
turnkey, having seen the policeman thus regal in the
maintenance of his “ right,” is not disposed to tolerate
the slightest quibble of sedition amongst the miscreants
of his flock. That felon has stolen a tumbler, an uten-
sil worth threepence, and is very sufficiently punished
with six months’ imprisonment. And now he is ribald
in his captivity; ho will not doff his hat when parading
before the majesty of the law, he chaffs his gaolers, he
reaches at length the very pinnacle of iniquity by
singing a song wherein the gaoler figures discreditably.
And shall the meanest mimic of the great King Henrx
or the Hon. Judge be thus abused? Ho ! hangman !
seize me that scoundrel, and flog him ; and let it not be
said the Russian’s taught the world to use the thong in
vain. The hangman was, at the gaoler’s request, sent
up from Sydney, and did his work well. A local jour-
nal puts an unpleasant odour of flesh and blood into a
detailed account of the bruises, which we do not care
to reproduce. It is better to deal with facts, aad the
facts as already suggested are surely sufficiently sugges-
tive. What we yet have to endure at the hands of the
“ strong ” Government is mercifully veiled, hut it is a
certain thing that New South Wales will through all
time bear the brand of its rale as plainly as that man
bears the indelible marks of the hangman’s eat—
whoso flesh, in free and enlightened Australia, in the
year of grace 1881, was literally cut to pieces, because
he coupled <ho name of his gaoler in the snatches of a
ribald song.
A Synodical Straw.
To a man of the world—such as the Dean of
professedly and reputedly is not—the utterances of
Mr. Shepperd Smith in the Synod, the other day, need
scarcely he so very startling and unchristian—not to say
damnable and heretical, as the opinion of the Synod
seems to have decided. As regards the merits at the
matter, there can be little question as to the judgment
displayed in a hard-and-fast ordinance which makes the
public reading of certain jyjrtions of the mere ancient
Scriptures obligatory under all circumstances and
among all classes of worshippers. That the reflection
implied should be expressed or indicated at all, how-
ever, is the main cause of Mr. Shepferd Smith’s self-
expulsion. There is something significant in the affair
—a two-fold significance : arising, in the first instance,
from Mr. Smith's recognised position in the Church to
which he belongs, and of which he forms such a credit,
ably representative member; and, in the other, from
the mere drift of his remarks. The latter might easily
express the sentiments of vast sections on the same
subject; but that, after twenty years’ consideration,
and doubt, and enquiry, and counsel, such a generally-
recognised pillar of the English Church among the laity
should disturb the decorum of a solemn Synod by his
perplexities, and then be forced to consider himself
practically excommunicated by the manner in which
they were received, is surely a very significant and
noticeable circumstance, indeed. To an observer, it
seems to mark the unadaptability of the Church to the
progressive spirit of the day. Its conservatism appears
to lie in the way of its onward march. The Synod’s
little storm in a tea-cup is a portion of the world-wide
contest between progress and petrifaction—between the
present and the future. The wave of the distant agita-
tion yet breaks faintly and weakly along onr social cliffs
and boulders, which erelong it threatens to sweep away.
The world is growing old. Monarchy is dying out, and
Manhood begins to assert itself. Nihilism and Com-
munism are the outcome of the violations of the rights
of man. Old landmarks are fading, and traditional
restrictions and obstacles are going down before the
popular advance. The sole guide to life beyond the
grave of so many millions has been doubted—and revised.
And even this trifling incident of a leading layman of
onr local Synod asking a revision of his Prayer-Book,
which he declares he can no longer conscientiously use,
seems to mark, if in a minute degree, the spread of the
same class of ideas and condition of things.
POLITICAL POINTS.
How is it John Davies isn’t Minister for’Mines ?
The general elections in N.Z take place at the
end of November.
A Loan Bill for four millions has been passed
by the Melbourne Assembly.
Mr. W. J. Foster, member for Newtown, was
sworn in, as Minister for Justice, on Friday. Mr.
Buchanan very irate.
It is rumoured that Dr. Eenwick threatened
that unless he got the Secretaryship of Mines he’d
well, gentle public, as it yon don’t know.
Except in Dunedin, the press of N.Z were con-
demning the proposal to devote £60,000 a year to the
subsiding of a direct steam service with England.
The Queensland Government have not aban-
doned the idea of assisting Indian Coolie emigration.
Arrangements not forward enough to ask a money vote.
The Newtown nomination and polling are fixed
for October 24 and 26. Mr. Foster, the new Minister
for Justice, was formerly Attorney-General in the
Farnell Administration.
Mr. Hall, M.L.A. of Victoria, tried a little
poetic quotation in the Assembly the other day, but
forgot how the other part went. Hon, members sug-
gested that he should ‘ising it."
The Legislative Council insisted on the omission
from the Chinese Immigration Restriction Bill of tho
clauses imposing a £lO penalty on Chinese, and pro-
hibiting their owning freehold property.
In the Legislative Assembly, on the 12th, the
Government gave up the clause relating to the classifi-
cation of public-house?, but insisted on the local option
danse, which was carried, with the omission, however,
of the two-thirds and cumulative voting principles.
During the recent Eockhampton elections, a
candidate informed the electors that “he belonged to
no party, that he stood a free and independent man
from his birth." (Great applause). Here is how he con.)
eluded his speech: “ Them is tho sentiments of my
hinmost ’art."
In reply to a deputation which waited on the
Premier at Melbourne, to secure the principle of local
option in any Tramway Bill that might be introduced,
tie said that there was no possibility of any Bill being
Missed during the present session, and that there would
ae no hasty legislation on the subject.
The aspect of the House during the closing
scenes of the last N.Z. Parliament was extremely
desolate. The fHor was strewn with debris, consisting
of slaughtered bills, order papers, quill pens, envelopes,
&3. About a dozen members sat gloomily in their
daces, reflecting upon their remote chance of ever
Jeing in a position to impede the business of the Legis-
lature. Others congregated in select groups, talking in
impetuous whispers. j
The debate on Mr. Eeid’s motion, for a search-
ing inquiry into the working of the land laws, was re-
sumed on Tuesday. Mr. William Forster moved an
amendment favouring the introduction of an Amending
Act. Mr. Garrett contended that the motion and
amendment were untimely, but hoped, nevertheless,
that the Government would soon introduce a measure
expanding the principle of selection, and making
amendments in the existing law. The debate was
further adjourned.
Here is an item which we commend to the at-
tention of those teetotal wiseacres in the Assembly, who
helped the publicans to abolish the colonial wine-shops :
Perhaps Mr. Darley—we mean the Upper House—will
rectify the Assembly’s blunder. “ Drunkennness is said
to be very markedly increasing in Prance. Is it owing to
the following causes ? That the supply of pure cheap wine
has seriously diminished; that the wine made from
farinaceous spirits is more fiery, and consequently more
conducive to drunkenness; that the want of the wine
they were accustomed to has stimulated the use of
spirits, as is proved by the increased homecomsnmption,
which is growing rapidly."
The insight possessed by some country editors
is something wonderful. He of the Newcastle Herald
pronounces that Mr. Parnell’s policy was “so ably
satirized by Mr. Gladstone, at Leeds," while we metro-
politan duffers know nothinv about Mr. Gladstone’s
speech at Leeds beyond what about ten lines of cable-
gram conveyed, and the language therein was not
satirical at all, hut abusive. All the reference reported
to have been made by Mr. Gladstone to Mr. Parnell,
was the former’s denunciation of the latter’s policy as a
“ Gospel of public plunder, combined with degrading
and immoral doctrines.” When Parnell retorted by
characterizing Gladstone as “the unscrupulous
slanderer of the Irish,” Gladstone promptly had him
arrested. Perhaps that was “ ably satirical,” too !
The advocates in England of Fair-trade Eeci-
procity versus Free-trade, are daily gaining ground. A
regular organization has started with abundant funds,
and has determined to raise £lO,OOO yearly, to agitate
the question. The Morning Post says “ Under pro
tection, the commerce of the whole world has increased
36 per cent, in ten years. Under protection the com-
merce of the United States has increased 68 per cent, in
the same period. Under protection, the commerce of
Holland and Belgium, of Prance, and of Germany, have
increased respectively 57, 51, and 39 per cent, in ten
years. Under free-trade the commerce of England has
increased 21 per cent, in ten years. Under protection
America is accumulating annually 165 millions sterling.
Under protection France is accumulating 75 millions
sterling. Under free-trade England is, or was, accumu-
lating 65 millions sterling. Many experts maintain that
since 1875 or 1876 she has been losing instead of accumu- ’
lating. Protective America now exports more than she
imports. Protective France imports annually four mil-
lions more than she exports (the balance against her is
40 millions in ten years). Free-trade England imports
annually 130 millions more than she exports.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their conmmications noticed.]
“ J.G.8.” (Cudgegong): Good “G. W.
Eneden": Your communication is incoherent “La
Mesurer": Thanks, but don’t understand. Looks a
little spiteful “ E.S.’’: Very good, but old
“B.D. Carna": Certainly L.L.": Capital “Out-
sider " : You are likely to be an outsider, so far as we
are concerned, if you send us copy with so many italics
and so much Latin in it. Can’t you comprehend,
learned youth, that we want Alfred to tmderstai d our
paper. It you send us any more quotations from
Horace and Ovid, he’ll think a Jew has bought in, and
we are bringing out the paper in Hebrew. We shall bo
glad, however, to hear from you again—in English
“0.G.": Your “revised version’’ is evidently mis-
directed. It should havo been addressed to Holywell-
street, or Petticoat-lane. You must be either an owl
in intellect, or else you could never have read The
Bulleeis ; otherwise yon would know, without our
having the trouble and wasting the space in which to
tell you, that wo do not print prurient matter in this
journal. If you cannot understand this, write some
more of the stuff you send us, and forward it to Pastor
Allen, for his now instalment of the “ History of the
Convent.” J. J. C —ll, Sydney”: Your sporting
item re match, rather too risky. The other items, you
say. are written in a hurrv, In future write to ns, but
don’t write iu a hurry. We are always in a hurry our-
selves ; and two hurrys make one scurry “ Chandos":
Bless you “ Secret”; Idea has been used before.
Thanks all the same “A Modern Sermon": Quite
so. Not more original than most sermons now-a-days, we
fear...“L.B." (Brisbane): Verses not presentable in their
present shape “Paddy Murphy”: It won’t do yet.
Thanks for your trouble, though “A.W.C.”: Very
probable; but you are not in England now. Let us
hear from you again when you’ve had experience
“ Deadfinish ” (Barcoo, Q ): There is true poetic feeling
in your verses, but not happy expression. Eegret.
Basket “G.B ": We remember your case very well.
It was one of deliberate theft from the Australian Gas
Co. You kept tenements, in which yon had prostitutes,
■ hose filthy earnings you fattened on. If you imagine
hat we have any animus against the Gas Company,
when they simply appeal to the law to prevent frauds
upon them, you are desperately mistaken. It is only
to put a stop to frauds upon the public that we have
published what you refer to. Wo happen to know your
history. Darlinghurst or Berrima was not your first
gp.ol. Visiting Brisbane gaol, wo remember seeing yon
there “Henry Ward” Thanks. But some are old,
and some too hot “M.K.": We go to press on
Wednesday night with the last formes “ Omicron
Thanks The second item previously noticed
“Lex”: As you see “Eros": Do it again
“E.L.S.” (Pyrmont): Obliged, but too long for inser-
tion. Excuse us—not equal to your last “ Silver
Pen”: It is washy, but B >bby and we are cousins. Let
it rip “Motus": We can’t insert your lines about
the lady. Send us something in prose and of general
interest, and we will try to oblige you “ Miser”:
You say you tossed off the verses you send in a few
spare minutes. If so, you were only wasting your own
time and your master’s billheads, for the lines you send
in your scrawl appeared in The Bulletin some
months ago. When you feel inclined to toss off any
more little trifles that have appeared in our paper, send
them to some other journal—and choose one that is
bossed by an editor who does not wear clump.toed boots
......“ A.L.S.”: Yes; weeare to hear from you, of course,
but we’d care more if we could read all you write.
When you come to name 3, write slow, especially in de-
scribing characters at a ball “G.S.” (Mossvale):
Thanks. Very glad to hear from yon again, and often...
" J. Buckley ”: You say we “ know a lot about madness.”
Well, so far as you are personally concerned, we do
know something. Prom the style of your mad-dog
par,, we should imagine that you had been severely
bitten by the insane animal yon allude to, in your youth,
and then nipped by a donkey with mania acute on your
twenty.flrst birthday. The only thing we can think of
that would benefit you in your present condition, is a
header down a coal-shaft “Annidale”: We have
had several similar complaints about those plates, and
have taken some trouble to investigate the matter.
The explanation we received was that the unforeseen
extent of the demand exhausted the first supply, but
that a fresh lot had been cabled for, and have now
nrrivt d. Better write 8 gain to the person in question.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A shocking tram accident has occurred at
Wellington (N.Z ), a little boy having his left elbow
fractured, right leg broken above the ankle, one finger
crashed off, and a wound 3 inches in length across the
temple The last San Francisco mail by the Zealandia
was delivered at Wellington (N.Z.) in the quickest time
on record, namely, in 39 days from the date of its
despatch from London Scarlet fever has been preva-
lent in N.Z. for some time past A N.Z. Licensed
Victuallers’ Gazette has made its appearance at
Christchurch The new New Zealand Divorce Act
Amendment Bill, which gives one Judge of the Supreme
Court full jurisdiction in divorce cases, has been re-
served for the Queen’s assent The Otago (N.Z ) Re-
frigerating Co. expect to start operations early in Feb-
ruary M'Gahey, for the alleged murder of his wife
at Hokitika (N.Z.) has been acquitted The Christ-
church Tramway Company have decided to run cars on
Sunday The citizens of Dunedin (N.Z.) have decided
to erect a statue to Robert Burns Telephone ex-
changes have been formed in the principal N.Z. towns.
A drunken fellow who was refused liquor at a
Christchurs (N Z.) public-house, amused himself by
bombarding the place with stones. The effect was to
wreck the bar, and do damage to a heavy amount, for
which ho was committed for tiial An eagle, measur-
ing nearly twelve feet from tip to tip of its wings, was
shot by Mr. Allan Main, a few days ago, on the Gram-
pians, Victoria. Its female mate was killed at the same
time, being nearly as large, and the brood of five young
ones was captured The Melbourne cabmen state that
the duty on maize means an annual loss to them of
£17,000 There are eighty inmates at the Institution
for the Deaf and Dumb and the Blind, Sydney The
Victorian Police Commission recommend the super-
annuation of Superintendents Nicholson and Hare, the
latter to receive £ICO pension for injury received; Super-
intendent Sadlier’s name to be placed at the bottom of
the list; Inspector Brook Smith, for indolence and in-
capacity, to retire on a pension of £100; Detective
Ward, to he censured and removed one grade; Sergeant
Steele, to be reduced to the ranks; tho constables ia
Aaron Sherritt’s house at the time of his murder to be
dismissed for cowardice; and James Wallace, State
school teacher, to bo dismissed for sympathy with the
Kellys. The Commission thank the Queensland Govern,
meat for forwarding black troopers who did good ser-
vice, and they commend the courageous conduct of
Mr, Cnrnow, school teacher, at Glenrowan Thomas
King, the station superintendent who gave, as is
alleged, to a selector named Kenny, some cake and
bread and butter, which the latter gave to his son
who died through eating the same, has been committed
for trial on a charge of wilful murder. Kenny had
transferred his land and cattle to King to avoid being
sued for debt The pictures of the Art Society are
selling well; oyer £5OO worth disposed of last week
Tenterfleld mailman has been stuck un by armed men
The trial of Jim Kelly and Wild Wright, for horse-
stealing, has commenced at Beechworth Good water
struck at Mount Browne; XOOOoz. gold awaiting escort.
A decent man in Melbourne recently called on a
leading barrister, and stated that he wai the legitimate
Governor of Victoria, and the Marquis of Normanby
quite irregularly holder of the position Rifle match,
N.S.W. v. Victoria, on the 16th November Tea per
Enropa found at Melbourne to be “exhausted,” and
declared unfit for human consumption 12.00) persons
vaccinated at Adelaide in two months Large ship-
ments of wool waiting on the Darling for a rise in the
river Mr. M’llwraith, the Queensland Premier, sub-
scribed 100 guineas io the O’Quinn memorial . Up to
the beginning of October there had been 54 cases of
small-pox in Sydney: 36 recoveries and 18 deaths
A brave little girl, aged 9, rescued her younger sister
from drowning in Burra Creek, near Gundagai, by
wading in and dragging herfromdeep water, afterwards
setting to work to resuscitate her according to instruc-
tions learnt in a Victorian State School Mr. Walter
Adrian Bucknell, surveyor of Macdonaldtown. Sydney,
fell down a shaft 50 feet deep, at George’s Head Battery
on the 16th, and died from the injuries he received, *
The antimony mines at Armidale are now being
expeditiously and economically worked—with the best
results. 200 men regularly employed. Many miles of
antimony country yot untouched.—Very rich returns
again reported from Temora. —The Copeland, believed
by many to he the vastest and richest mineral district
in Australia, is giving capital returns. The Hidden
Treasure has a six-foot reef with richer stone. The
No. 1 North has struck rich gold, and splendid speci-
mens have been exhibited. The No. 1 East Mountain
Maid, which has a reef of varying thickness, up to 30
inches, had a crushing this week, and 60 tons gave
2090 z. Additional men are to be put on.—Reform Gold
Mine, Lucknow, near Orange, has been sold to Messrs.
Lyell and Gowan, of Melbourne, for £25,000. —The
Victorian mining returns show a decrease in the total
yield, in the yield per ton, and the number of minors
employed. The yield for the quarter was 20,0000 z.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
The Ministry of M. Jules Ferry lias resigned,
and M. Gambetta is now forming a new one Prince
Albert Victor, eldest son of the Prince of Wales,
shortly to receive an army commission Severe agri-
cultural depression in Scotland A Bombay trader
has been lost off Lisbon; only seven persona escaped
5000 French troops repulsed at Susa, in Tunis
Italy makes a formal protest against the French oc-
cupation of Tunis Ayoub Khan again badly defeated
by the Ameer Two hundred houses destroyed by
fire at New York King Alfonso, of Spain, invested
with the Order of the Garter by Queen Victoria
Bulk of the frozen meat by the Orient sold in Loudon
at 5*3 The Washington Cabinet difficulty has beon
settled, the Democrats having withdrawn their objec-
tion to the new senators. Bayard,the new Vice-President
represents a compromise... Sir Stafford Northcote repu-
diated the idea that the Conservatives favour protection
The Eev. Father Sheehy and Mr. Egan, prominent
Land Leaguers, have suddenly left Ireland to avoid
arrest A postman, who was recently a Crown wit-
ness, at Longford, has been shot Parnell was quietly
arrested, on October 13, in an hotel, at Dublin Mr.
Gladstone, referring to the arrest, said the Govern,
ment were perfectly j ustifled in their action, and inti-
mated that it was the first step in vindication of law
and order in Ireland. The exact charge upon which
Mr. Parnell was arrested was intimidation and inciting
the tenants and farmers not to take advantage of the
Land Law or pay their rents Great excitement
throughout Ireland over the arrest of Parnell John
Dillon elected by the Land League to the position of
President, vice Parnell, arrested The Land League
defiant, and its suppression by the Government ex-
pected The navy and military on Irish service have
been strengthened Mr. Herbert Gladstone, sen of
the Premier, who is in Dublin, has had his life threat-
ened The Irish tenants decline to pay their rents till
Parnell is liberated O’Kelly, M.P. for Roscommon,
Thomas Sexton, Quinn (Land League secretary), John
Dillon, M.P. for Tipperary, Helfernan, and O'Brien,
editor of United Ireland, the organ of the League,
have all been arrested for seditious speeches Boy-
cotting of landlords is declared to bo a criminal act
Irish Americans displaying active hostility to the
British Government The new Macquarie light for
Sydney Heads successfully tested at Birmingham
Hanlan accepts Trickett’s challenge for £800 aside
Durham miners emigrating to America Waterspout
in Algeria killed 65 people Disastrous hurricane in
England, and enormous destruction of property.
Numerous shipwrecks and loss of some hundreds of
lives Land League meetings in Ireland prevented by
the military, who fired on the people The English
Democrats denounce the Government for their action
in Irelaud Parnell denies having committed the
offences mentioned in the warrant under which ha was
arrested Extremists in the French Assembly de-
mand the impeachment of the Ferry Ministry on
charges of swindling, usurpation of power, and exceed-
ing their credit in connection with the Tunisian war
vote Resignation of the Ferry Ministry now denied.
French re-enforcements sent to Tunis Strong
anti-English feeling in the Transvaal Ameer of
Cubal seized and occupied Herat Sixty houses burnt
at Port Said Arab insurgents defeated by French
troops; 800 slain Head quarters of the Land League
transferred from Dublin to Liverpool Parnell re-
moved from the Commission of the Peace Ferstor,
Irish Chief Secretary, justifies the conduct of the
police, against whom charges of brutality were laid
Emeutes, though not of a serious character, reported at
Dublin Kilmainham Gaol strongly guarded
Frequent conflicts between the military and the people.
Great meeting of Irish malcontents in New York.
917 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
The oldest dramatic paper: Order for two to
dress-circle.
Princess Beatrice is about to publish a birthday
book, illustrated by herself.
“ Pinafore ” cigarettes find much favour among
Woollahra belles during boating excursions.
“ Will the coming woman lecture?” If she
marries, will she ever do anything else ? Hardly ever.
A certain young lady, living not a mile from
Paddington, makes believe a sore finger by binding her
hand up, when she can find only one glove.
A Ballarat man recently jilted his intended at
the very steps of the hymeneal altar. He says “it’s
never too late to mend,” but the District Judge will
soon alter that for him.
The Block at Launceston is nothing since hand-
some George went to Brisbane. As the girls used to
say, “ Let me kiss him for his mother and he did—
and so did they. This item will interest Brisbane girls.
Mrs. H. C. Eobinson, the well-known West End
professional rider and horse-breaker, is the daughter of
a captain of Fusiliers. She began to ride regularly ias
a professional last Spring, and, during the riding season
of 1880, was the winner of seventeen prizes. She began
this season by gaining a V.H.C. and a first prize °for
jumping at the Glasgow Agricultural Snow, and has
now sailed for America to take part in a match made
for her to ride twenty milea against Miss Cook, of
Chicago, a famous transatlantic horsewoman, who has
had experience of such matches.
Here is a little eye-opener for Brisbane parents.
The facts are as stated, but have been “ kept quiet ”
till now. Cissy Wormald’s case fades into insignificance
beside this. A doctor called to see an infant, and found
the patient suffering from the effects of narcotic
poisoning. Further eequiries, aad nurse-girl confessed
she administered poison to keep the cljild quiet, while
she was out with it in the gardens. Still further en-
quiries show that, of ten families where she has been
as nurse, eight children have died under similar cir-
cumstances. She had obtained the morphia from
chemists by presenting a prescription written for her
mother, some months back.
The residue of Highbury Estate, Croydon, are
for sale en Saturday, by Messrs, Hardie and Gorman.
Tho land i 8 th© highest in the railway suburbs, and
adjoins Croydon railway station.
The best substitute for the present high-priced
meat (and far more wholesome) is Redgate’s Patent
Meal, or Food of Health. The Australian Cricketers
is the trade mark, none other genuine. Sold by all
grocers and storekeepers.— Adv.
Use Jannascb’a Conserve Salt. Preserves meat
game, fish, milk, fee., sweet during the hottest weather!
by speedy and simple process; no deleterious chemical
used. To be had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt. — Advt.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Theodore Staiger, analytical
chemist."— Advt.
A STARTLING DISCLOSURE.
We write this verse in fear and terror;
But yet we think 'tis true.
Sir Jo’s appointment was an error; —
Just list—and so will you!
When e’er he sends a man to gaol
He will be Innes-sent;
But when acquitted he can’t fail
Not to he Innes-sent!


TO CLEAR.
HIGHBURY ESTATE
CROYDON,
By order of the directors of the
1-0 i’d 15 to 21, each 40 feet to AN 1 HUNT-STREET
60 BUILDING ALLOhMENTS,
as follows
SECTION 1.
A ' -jiu- Australian Inveatmeut, Finance, and Land
Company Limited,
SECTION 2.
RUGBY HOUSE and 7 ALLOTMENTS, fronting
META STREET.
LOTS 15 to 23, each 33 feet to CROYDON ROAD
LOTS 26 to 34, each 33 feet to EDWIN STREET
LOTS 38 to 47, each 33 feet to EDWIN STREET.
SECTION 4.
LOTS 5 to 9. each 33 feet to YOUNG STREET
LOTS 22 to 25, each 33 feet to GROSVENOR STREET
LOTS 35 to 38, each 33 feet to BOUNDARY STREET
LOT 26, with a well-built VILLA thereon
LOTS 39 to 45, each 33 feet to GROSVENOR STREET,
«3- These SITES and the TWO HOUSES are situate
within about a stone’s throw of the
«r ; 1 a
Nearly every lot has a back entrance, and is first-rate
building land. Will certainly equal land similarly
situated at Ashfield.
CROYDON is a pretty and favourite suburb, with
many good villas studding the hilly country around.
The TERMS of SALE are only 10 per cent, deposit,
the balance at 5 per cent, interest.
LITHOGRAPHS are now ready, showing the lots
sold and for sale, and may be obtained at the Rooms.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
HARDIE AND GORMAN
■pjAVE received instructions to sell by PUBLIC
AUCTION,
ON THE GROUND, AT 3.30 O’CLOCK,
SATURDAY 22nd OCTOBER,
60 BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
HIGHBURY ESTATE,
CROYDON RAILWAY STATION.
W FREE TRAIN TICKETS for day of sale may be
obtained at the Rooms.
SATURDAY, 29th OCTOBER*
ON THE GROUND,
OPPOSITE THE LAND PURCHASED BY MESSES.
HUDSON BROTHERS, FOR WORKSHOPS.
GRANVILLE.
OVER 100 CHOICE ALLOMMHNTS OP LAND,
fronting
THE PARRAMATTA ROAD,
GEORGE STREET,
SUTHERLAND STREET,
and CLYDE STREET.
The best positions for BUSINESS PREMISES in this
rapidly rising township.
MILLS, PILE, AND GILCHRIST
HAVE received instructions to sell hy PUBLIC
AUCTION, to the highest bidder, on the Ground,
on SATURDAY, 29th instant, at half-past 3,
THE WHOLE OF THE TOWNSHIP BLOCK.
GRANVILLE,
beingthe unsold (portion of the BASSETT-DAELET
ESTATE.
SITUATE at the junction of the SOUTHERN and
WESTERN RAILWAYS, and. at the head of
i j navigation of the Port Jackson waters,
! VILLE possesses unusual advantages for a
m ’nifactnring town; situate also at no great
distance from the PROSPECT RESERVOIR,
it will also have the advantage of water power—
so much more economical than steam.
Glasgow, the largest town in Scotland, and one of the
chief manufacturing towns of Europe, was originally
situate above navigation, but the enterprise of her mer-
chants caused the Clyde to be dredged, so as vessels of
the largest, size could lay alongside the wharfs of Glas-
gow—wha ■* was done for the Clyde can be done for th®
Duell River, and Granville may become another Glas-
gow on the south side ef the line. Comments have al-
ready been made in establishing manufactories at Gran-
ville—witness the tweed manufactories of Messrs.
Byrnes and Bergin, and also Messrs. Hudson Brothers
are arranging to move their immense works from
Sydney to the land they have secured at Granville, the
plana ot which can he seen at the Rooms.
In one respect Granville differs from Glasgow—th®
inhabitants do not speak such broad Scotch.
The allotments above-described will b® sold on the
ground, on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, the 29th instant,
at half-past 3,
on the following easy terms .
10 per cent, deposit, and the balance in 18 months, pay-
ments bearing « per cent, interest.
A special train will convey intending buyers to Rich-
mond free of charge.
LITHOGRAPHS NOW READY.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22.
QUEENSCLTPF ESTATE,
Qaeensclifif Estate,
Queens cliff Estate,
BEN BUCKLER,
BONDI. BONDI.
UNRESERVED SALE,
Unreserved Sale,
Unres rvad Sale,
ON THE GROUND,
On the Ground,
SATURDAY, 22nd OCTOBER.
201 ALLOTMENTS OP LAND,
204 Allotments of Land,
204 Allotments of Land,
EACH HAYING FRONTAGES OP 40 FEET,
Each having Frontages of 40 feet.
Each having Frontsges of 40 feet,
68 ALLOTMENTS
fronting
H ASTINQS-PARADE,
68 ALLOTMENTS
fronting
BRIGHTON BOULEVARD,
68 ALLOTMENTS
fronting
RAMSGATE AVENUE,
BY DEPTHS OF OVER 12 FEET,
BEING
THE RESIDUE OF THE
CELEBRATED
BONDI
ESTATE
THE ESTATE IS NOW
SUBDIVIDED
by
Mr. SURVEYOR P. H. REU3S, Jun.
TITLE,
TORRENS
ACT.
HARDIE AND GORMAN.
I AYE received instructions to sell by public
auction,
ON THE GROUND, ON THE GROUND,
AT 3. 30 O’CLOCK,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
22nd OCTOBER.
LITHOGRAPHS AT THE ROOMS ON APPLI-
CATION.
TERMS
£5 DEPOSIT, BALANCE BY 18 MONTHLY
PAYMENTS,
INTEREST AT 6 PER CENT
THE SITES
are
UNEQUALLED
for
HOMESTEADS
and
DWELLINGS,
with
FINE VIEWS
of the
OCEAN,
NORTH AND SOUTH HEADS,
WAVERLEY AND BOTANY BAY,
and the
BLUE MOUNTAINS,
BUILDERS,
TRADESMEN,
CLERKS,
and OTHERS,
will And the
LAND
in
QUEENBCLIFF ESTATE
WORTH BUYING
for
BUILDING PURPOSES,
HOLDING
for
INCREASED
VALUE,
or for
SELLING
AT ONCE
TO
TURN OVER YOUR MONEY
WITH
A PROFIT
AT A
VERY LITTLE DELAY.
QUEENSCLTFF ESTATE
consists of
GOOD BUILDING LAND,
WITH
A
LARGE QUANTITY
of
FIRST-CLASS
BUILDING STONE
VERY
CLOSE
at
HAND,
«r THE AUCTIONEERS
DIRECT
SPECIAL ATTENTION
TO THIS SALE OF LAND
IN ONE OF THE
EASTERN SUBURBS OF THE CITY,
WITHIN
EAST RIDING
DISTANCE
of
THE CENTRE
of
THE TOWN,
WHERE
TRAMS
and
OMNIBUSES
RUNNING
VERY SHORT
INTERVALS
DURING
the
DAT,
and
UP TO
8i
LATE HOUR AT NIGHT,
SPECIAL TRAMS LEAVE KING-STEEET
2.13 AND 2.38 P.M. ON DAT OP SALE,
and
OMNIBUSES TO MEET THE TEAMS.
SALE DAT, 22nd OCTOBER.
NOTE THE EASY TERMS—
ONLY £5 DEPOSIT,
BALANCE. 18 MONTHLY PAYMENTS,
INTEREST AT 6 PER CENT.
«T REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED.
HOP Bill
ARE
THE PUREST ANI
MEDICINE EVER H
They are Compounded
Hops, Buclin, Mandrake i
The Oldest, Best, most Rei
Valuable Medicines in the
in addition, contain all tl
most effective curative proj
other Bitters, being the gee
Regulator, Blood Purifib
and Health Restoring Agen
Ask your Druggist or
Do not suffer yourself,
friends suffer, but use, and i
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters
drugged, drunken nostrur
Purest and Best Medicine
and no person or family sho
out it.
VALUABLE TRI
If you are suffering from
or languishing on abed of si
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Ct
If you are simply ailing
Weak and Dispirited, witl
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will He
If you are a Minister, an
taxed yourself with your pas
or a Mother, worn out wi
work.
Hop Bitters Will Hat
If you are a man of 1
labourer, weakened by the s
every-day duties, or a ma
toiling over your midnight
Hop Bitters Will Strei
If you are suffering from
or drinking, any indiscretio
tion, or are young and grov
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Bel
If yen are in the works
farm, at the desk, anywhe
that your system needs Cle
ing, or Stimulating, withe
ting,
Hop Bitters is What
If you are old, and yout hi
impure, pulse feeble, you
steady, and your faculties ’
Hop Bitters Will Give Yo
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegi
and refreshing flavouring f<
drinks, impure water, &c
them harmless, and swe<
mouth, and cleansing the si
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENI
with
HOP BITTI
and you will have no sicknes
MONTEFIOHE, STUi
65 PITT STREET, STDN
General Agents for At
OP. GEE G O I
• TOBACCO MANUFAC
RICHMOND, VIEGINI.
have appointed us i
SOLE AGENTI
for the Sale of their TOBACCO
We invite particular attei
NEW IMPORTATIONS, JU
of
SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKI
bearinv our Brani
" ORIENT ’’ and “ SOUTH]
These TOBACCOS are made to our
from the
CHOICEST VIRGINIA
and for delicacy of flavour are
Echo Grammar: —“ A man named Clarke with
his two sons were found dead,” &o. Surely Hanley
Bennett—but no. He is starring in Tamworth.
The Ltee states that the Bishop of Sydney
seconded a resolution at the Church of England Synod
the other day. And yet the old gentleman wrote
out quite lately that he was in Scotland. Why, in
thunder, can’t the old chap tell the truth ?
The Evening News has ceased to come ont as
an illustrated Saturday journal for the present. In
about three weeks, however, when the artist and en-
graver come out of the Infirmary, Alfred will make
another splash in the pictorial line. We have it, on
what should be good authority, that the next three
victims —we mean “celebrities”—to be depicted are Dr.
Renwick, Dr. Van Heekeren, and Susan Nixon.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, ef Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. —Anv.
VALUABLE CITY PROPERTIES
BANK AND STEAM COMPANIES’
SHAKES.
TO BE SOLD
BT
PUBLIC AUCTION
LAND SALE KOOMS,
83 PITT STREET,
ON
THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 27th, 1881,
at
11.30 a.m. PROMPT.
BT
BATT, ROOD, & PURVES.
LATE SPORTING.
The Intercolonial Eifle match ia fixed for 16th
November.
An Amateur Athletic Club for the Eastern
suburbs is being formed.
Notwithstanding the weather, the Southern
Bugby Football Union dinner was a great success.
The' Meecttrt sports, at Parramatta, were
very successful. Fields large; handicapping good. The
big handicap was won by Pollard.
Entrances for the Summer Cup, Ely Handicap,
and Tatter sail's Cup close to-day (Thurday); and those
for the Parramatta meeting, on the 26th instant.
The Strangers’ Eace at the University Sports
was a very rough-and-tumble affair. Several good men
lost their chances through being severely handled, and
one was spiked.
A 100-yards’ race, for ,£lO, took place in the
Domain, on Friday aftemdon, between W. C. B. Leigh
and L. Hunt, the former getting 5 yards start, Leigh
won easily by about 8 yards.
Entries for the Betrima Jockey Club meeting are
as follow Maiden Plate 6, Prinoe of Wales’ Stakes 5,
Heiter Skelter Handicap 4, Flying Handicap 9, Trial
Stakes 9, Ladies’ Mile 8, Novel Kaee 3.
Wilson’s stable are backing Eoyal Maid for the
Cup, consequently The Duchess has receded to 100 to
0. Trump Yobs, on the strength of good work, has
come into the market. Somerset is first favourite for
the Derby at 5 to 2, Spinningdale next.
The scoring board at the Association Ground
was badly placed and badly looked after during the
greater part of the match last Saturday. The arrange-
ments were loose enough under any circumstances, but
when certain opaque individuals of the “ pavilion axis-
tocracy" porsisted in standing in front of the board, the
occupants of the terrace opposite thirsted for their
blood.
Parramatta Park trustees have refused to re-
new the lease of that portion of the Park which has
for many years been rented to the local Jockey Club
for a race-course. Parramatta race meetings have been
noted so far for their fairness, respectability, and general
excellence; and it will be simply disgraceful if they are
suppressed in order to gratify a pique. That ia what is
being attempted. The meanness of the attempt is very
apparent, inasmuch as the Club have been encouraged
during the past three years to spend large sums upon
improvements to the course, in the belief that their
lease would be renewed. Abolish the annual race meet-
ing, and Parramatta becomes again the Sleepy H w
it had been for years.
The subscribed money for the Condobolm races,
March 31 and April 1, 1882, amounts to £3OO Mr.
Al. and not Mr. Charles Newcombe played in the
recent Junior Cup match The tip from spirit-land
for the Melbourne Derby and Cup is Sardonyx and
Wheatear. These horses ought, therefore, to have, at
least, the ghost of a chance J. C. Williams accom-
plished 120 miles 4 laps at the Hippodrome last week,
without leaving the track; honour is about all that
J. C. gets out of the affair, some person else having
taken the cash.
* * *
2nd Carlingford v. Eugby. Former won by 30
runs.
Impeiial v. Marylebone. Scores: 1.C.C., 54,
M C.C, 23.
Britannia v. Atlas, Moore Bark. Scores :
8.C.C., 60. A.C.C.,30.
Balmoral Collingwood v. Clifton, Moore Park,
was won by the former by 6 runs.
Windsor v. Excelsior. Scores : W.C.E. 58 (S.
Dunn 18, Mallarky 15). E.C.C., 37 (Evers 18.)
Albert Victor v. Victoria, Moore Park. Scores :
A.V.G.C., 61 (Hemming 17, Jenkins, not ont, 10).
V.C.C , 53
Carlingford v. Ashfield, on Saturday, at Ash-
field. Scores. —Former: 158 (Oatley 46, F. Hughes 34,
not out.) Latter : 6 wickets for 55.
Kent v. Albion, Kent ground. Scores : K.C.C.,
64 (Smith 14, Pallet! 13, J. T. Pallet! 12, Patine 10).
A.C.C., 20. J. T. Pallett secured 8 wickets for 3 runs.
National v. Clio, on National ground. Scores:
N.C.C., 89 (Dobson 34. Dutton 21). C.C.C., 38 (Able
14). Duncan’s bowling average, 73 balls, 17 runs, 7
wickets.
Eaymond v. Excelsior, Botany. Scores : E.C.C.,
26. K.G.C., 8 wickets for 100 (Duprey 13, Wilson 18,
Hall 10, Mihell 14, Baker 19. Douglas, not out, 12).
Watkins got 4 wickets for 14 runs, Haiden 3 wickets
for 10.


BRIEF MENTION.
Wisdom is not yet raised to the Bench.
Extract from ad. “ Attendants at the Supremo
Court and Lunatic Asylum.” A-hem !
Brisbane will not be happy till it has got the
small-pox. A hospital ready—all complete—and no
customers.
The first [esthetic was Hamlet. Our readers
may remember his wish that his “ too too ’ solid flesh
v. ould melt.
Moss Yale is the next place which will agitate
for a water supply. A milk company is about to be
started there.
A “ sing-as-you-pleaso ” is the latest term for
the evening choral performances in somo of our metro-
politan churches.
There is a splendid study of a child with yellow
hair and a black eyo now on view at the Garden Palace.
Walk up, before it is too late.
President Arthur is a stout man, with a re-
markably large head. This will probably simplify
matters for the noxt assassin.
Morpeth has neither a newspaper, a doctor, nor
a magistrate. Ergo it has no libels, no deaths, and no
modern justice. This is good for Morpeth.
It is not permitted to the public to pluck flowers
in the Maryborough (Q ) Botanical Gardens, by order.
The Collector of Customs is an exception to every rule.
The aristocracy of Bourke are styled ‘ 1 silver-
tails," and when that under formation now in Cobar is
established, they will douHless ho denominated
*' copper-tails.”
Oscar Wilde’s mamma wears crinolines and
writes Irish poetry under the nom de plume of 11 Sper-
anza.” We are of opinion her ”crinny” is a bigger
boom than her verse is.
Anything for a little excitement. Some pious
young men of Cohar, failing to establish a Presbyterian
Church, immediately afterwards initiated a movement
to give a Bachelors’ Ball.
“ Mr. John Lobster,” says a Sydney telegram
in one of the Melbourne papers, “ has been appointed
Minister for Justice.” This will make Mr. Foster
colour a bit when he reads it.
In manufacturing the mysterious sausage, people
should use moro caution. Several families are now dan-
gerously ill through the manufacturers neglecting to
remove the poodles’ brass collars.
It is said that King Kalakau, of the Sand-
wich Islands, has taken his present trip to Europe on
the spec, of selling his kingdom. Kingdoms are to be
had at a great reduction since the discovery of
dynamite.
Only two English newspapers—the Times and
the Daily News—are allowed in Russia, says London
Truth. No mention whatever is made of the Morn-
imo Rum. And yet some people consider that journal
to be written in English.
As soon as Jones had finished reading The
Bulletin par. about the digger who was eaten by the
ants, “ Moike” remarked, ’* Faix, the poor fellow must
have felt moighty quare when he r«s in the mornin’
an’ found himself a skilliton.”
A Salvation Army has started in Cooma, and
seems to have diffused holiness wherever it marched.
The Express says that the office tame crow
was so “ sacred ” when the procession passed, that it
fell down and was caught by the devil.
On Sunday week a man was found dead on the
Glenmore rood, with a razor on one side of him and a
copy of the Morning Rum on the other. The jury were
unable to say how the man died. The chosen twelve
were evidently strangers in these parts.
There are only seventy-eight methods of adul-
terating beer known in Paris. After this, wo consider
the lesson taught by our Great Exhibition as a gigantic
failure. Only seventy-eight methods! Why every
shanty proprietor has forgotten as many.
Mystery ! One of the Dnbbo papers says :
“ The curious want to know why the Quarter Sessions
Court, at Coonamble, was adjourned for an hour, the
other day. They say the true cause has not yet been
made public. Perhaps a certain noisy barrister can tell.”
Mr. Barley says that nowhere, except in Sydney,
are “ double-decked ” tramcars used. There is a slight
mistake here. In Edinburgh and Glasgow, for instance,
no other kind of car is to be seen. People who meddle
with facts should always be careful to speak by the card.
The Rev. J. Martin lectured the other day at
Liverpool on the Siege of Jerusalem. This is a nice
fresh subject, and Mr. Martin’s anecdotes about the
way Von Moltke shelled the city, and then stormed it
with his fourth battalion of Zulus, must have been in-
tensely interesting.
Noticing an exhibition of paintings at the local
School of Arts, the Dubbo Dispatch says” A scene
in the police paddock is a very good picture, breezy
and refreshing.’’ We bet it is not half so ” breezy and
refreshing ” as somo scones at the police court we have
witnessed in Sydney.
Since the news that junks of gold were thrown
to the amateur vocalists at Tomora was received in
Sydney, about 4150 amateurs have called upon us inti-
mating their willingness to assist at the noxt concert.
We trust somo metal will bo kept for them. It doesn’t
matter about the colour.
The railway fare from Auburn to Eookwood is
2d.; that from Auburn to Granville, Id. Yet the
Commissioner for Railways grants free passes to Auburn
children attending Rookwood Public School, while
those who go to Granville school are obliged to pay.
Now, C. A. O , how is this ?
“ That’s queer music you’re publishing, Alf,”
said a gentleman, last Friday, to the managing pro-
prietor of a Timbuotoo journal. ** No, it isn’t,” retorted
Alfred, snappishly. “ What is it, then ? ” enquired the
first speaker—'* what is it, it it isn’t queer ? ” “ Why,
cheap,” was the gentle reply.
Minnis, the man charged with a brutal murder
rear Brisbane, was a local preacher—a Min(n)ister. A
Primitive Methodist parson rushes into print in the
Courier, to disabuse people’s minds, and righteously
howls that Minnis was never one of his flock. A
woman at the bottom of it.
He was a new Northern J.P., and had hardly
taken his seat upon the Bench for the first time, when
he was seen to tug laboriously at something in his
back pocket. After numerous ineffectual efforts, .ho at
last drew forth a fnll-blown wig, which he stuck with
elaborate care on his intellectual pate.
The Hekkbr—it is unnecessary to say it is an
evening paper—has fabricated a new crime. It stated
in Monday’s police report that “ Anthony Ausell was
charged with being found sleeping in the open air,” and
was sent on beard the Vernon. Why, at this rate half
tho staffs of the evening papers are not safe.
_ The folks up Clarence River way are so de-
lighted that Dr. Renwick (who was in favour of their
railway) has boon made Minister for Minos, that <hey
drink his health in “deepsinkers" every time they
meet one another. When they don’t meet, they drink
just tho same ; it’s a habit each man has got.
A man in Wagga lost his pocket-book, contain-
ing £BO. and it was found by Mrs. Wayling, wife of a
bootmaker. He gave her a shilling “to buy 1 allies for
the children." Noble man ! If we knew his name, we’d
print it in large type, so that in case of his dropping
that pocket-book again, we might operxta in lollies for
a rise.
“ Da,” said a youthful manager the other day
to his venerable parent—then on a visit to the property
over which his son presided—” I think, indeed I may
say I am confident, that we shall have a first-class foal,
ing this year." '* Why this year particularly, Eleazar ?”
asked " Da." E.: “ Well, because you see the lambing
was so good."
What does this mean ? Trickett is matched to
row the “phenomenon" at St. Louis, on tho 22nd Nov.,
and yet the longest odds are 3 to'l against the ” Corn-
stalk.” Only one metallician offered to lay even this:
and when wo told him to book the bet, he slowly closed
his dexter eye, and said he meant 3 potatoes to a log of
mutton. So far, Haitian's secret has not yet leaked out,
but it now looks as if it was about to be knocked out.
A poet of Parramatta, who is, it would seem, I
in a bad way about a girl in an ice-cream simp, sends us •
some versos, beaded “ Jilted." We can understand the
circumstances perfectly, if J- R- took to sending the
young person similar tributes of his muse, after she
had pledged her young affections. Jilted 1 Wo wonder
she did not crucify him.
In a recent speech, Mr. Buchanan said that
there was no use making any distiuction between people,
as, said ho, “we are all steeped in unmistakable and
unequivocal iniquity.” Sorely,the extravagant David
does not say that this remark is applicable to the
directors of gas companies and to proprietors of news-
papers who suppress half of the truth !
In one of the leading suburbs there lives a sport-
ing tailor, who, in a sudden lit of generosity—or, perhaps,
with an eye to business —offered to tho local cricket club
a pair of claret jugs as a trophy for tho best bowler. At
the end of the season thov were duly awarded, but Mip
declined to fulfil his promise ; still, as he would not do
anything mean, he will give a pair of serge trousers.
The Adelaide L.Y.G. Gazette is the meanest
paper wo ever saw. The editor steals onr pars., puts
them under the signature of some stix>6ndiary chuckle-
head called “ Rambler," and then gives ns about • half-
a-stick" of abuse. The editor is lost to tho world m
his present position. What he ought to be is a Supreme
Court juryman, to be specially engaged in newspaper
libel cases.
A Maitland man is convinced that a lemon
averted from him a “ stroke of sunstroke.” He felt the
trouble coming, staggered into tho house, cut the fruit
in two, and set to work rubbing himself with it behind
each ear. Now, what a beautiful example of instinct
this was. The sufferer did not rub his legs or his back.
He recognized his distinguishing features, and went
direct for his ears.
A New Zealand Gospollar, a Mr. Brunton,
having been on a visit to Victoria, has been recounting
his impressions, and says he noticed a wonderful
concurrence of opinion among earnest men and women,
in looking forward for tho speedy coming of the Lord.
This showed how like the Apostles are the Victorians.
The Apostles had a similar wonderful concurrence of
expectation of the same event. It didn’t come off
though.
A rev. gentleman up the Manning way recently
laid himself out to give a lecture “On Bells.” He had
a tremendous audience, who, however, seemed rather
disappointed. Inquiry elicited the fact that the roll-up
was due to the posters announcing the lecture having
been slightly misprinted. They announced that the
lecture would be “OnHells,” a subject which every-
body up the Manning way considers to have a personal
interest for himself.
Tho N.Z. Volunteers have enjoyed a mild excite-
ment owing to the prospect of being called out to fight
the Maoris at Parihaki. The Auckland Observer
says:—"Some of the men who mustered at the drill
shed on Friday morning were burning with military
enthusiasm, but it was soon quenched when Major
Whithers told them their services were not required."
Under like circumstances, wo have known military zeal
to rise to boiling point. What quenched it was being
told their services were wanted.
A Lower Manning correspondent of the Man-
ning Times manages to combine sentiment with a puff
for the local undertaker thus The gentle breeze
faintly murmured through the trees as if waiting a sad
requiem over the delicate bud nipped by the cruel hand
of death. Silent now are the little pattering feet, the
busy hands are cold and stiff, and the young spring-
flowor peacefully awaits the resurrection morn. Tho
Eev. W. C. Hawkins officiated at the grave. Mr. Carl
was the undertaker.”
The Rockhampton Argus is not an evening
paper, yet it makes fearful blunders at times. Here is
the latest, in the form of a telegram Mr. Gardiner,
head of tho firm of W. Gardiner, and Co., of Sydney,
has been prosecuted for nob paying duty on four silver
cups, worth £5O each,” Tho mistake has, of course,
been satisfactorily explained. Mr. Gardiner had an-
nounced his intention ot presenting tho cups as tro-
phies. The telegram had got mixed in transmission.
It was over the cups, ot course.
Tho individual who does the dreary “Cave
Adnllum" stuff in tho Newcastle Herald is still at it.
We suppose the proprietors of that journal allow him
to meander in their columns on tho same principle
that infants are permitted to smoko empty clay pipes—
it amuses them, and harms nobody. Wo aro inclined
to think, however, that it is about time our ancient friend
confined his efforts in tho writing lino to chalking up bis
opmiousou a stable door. If ho will consent to do this
for the future, we will at once hire the stables for him,
and give him the loan ot tho chalk.
“ Is ‘ Go-as-you-please’ a forerunner of small-
pox. If so, it has broken out here,” writes a Brisbane
correspondent. “ Every post glares ‘ Go-as-you-please,’
and in tho haunts of vice (wisely legislated for hero in
Brisbane) they do go as they please; but they do not
please respectable citizens. In one of tho main ap-
proaches to the Gardens hero, it is no uncommon sight
to see half-naked women—besotted, swollen, dregs of
of fallen sisterhood—at all hours ; and they aro licensed
to do so, registered like dogs—female dogs. For the
love of all that’s pure, lot The Bulletin establish a
branch office here, and go in for a * Cloudy Bay ’ libel 1
Many a householder would rake up his last piece of
silver plate if the Editor were damaged never so highly
—Judge H. on tho bench, notwithstanding.”
There is a curate up Bungleton Creek way, who
always gets his girl to sit in the same comer of the
same pew, so that he can divert his thoughts from
wordly matters by gazing now and anon into the
“ windows of her soul.” He was up to his neck in the
litany, the other Sunday, when ho caught her sending a
glance of electrical sweetness in the direction of a local
lawyer. He started—scowled—hut had to proceed.
k ~n i 611 v y* hatred, malice, and all nr charitable-
ness, he stammered, and, as the congregation ejacu-
lated a fervent “ Good Lord, deliver us," he made a
mental vow to scruff his rival on the first favourable
occasion. If this young divine goes on at this rapid
of divinity, ho will soon ho eligible for
the editorship of tho Protestant Standard, or somo
other chaste and holy organ, which is so especially
delivered from all envy, hatred, malice, and all uu-
charitahloness.
The “hub.” of a Northern woman drank, and
when drunk had a nasty habit of kicking all the furni-
ture in to little hits. How to checkmate this exp snsivo
amusement had cost the wife many an anxious thought,
but sho finally hit upon an ingenious plan. She col-
lected over fifty kerosene tins, placed them in a lumber-
room, and whenever “the old man” came along in-
ebriated, sho “ ran him in ” here, and let him kick his
boots off. The din was terrific, but there was economy
in it. .
The Wesleyan Ministry in England is so over-
crowded with apostles that it has been decided that no
candidates for the pastorate shall be received until the
expiration of twelve months. And this in the face of
eighty students who have “passed the district meet-
ings.” Never mind, dear halo-headed howlers; there’s
lots of room for all of you at the corner of Pitt and
Hunter streets. A few dozen of the missionaries now
employed there have, of late, been writing pars, with
points in them, '1 heir copy, of course, never appeared ;
but as the word “ giddy " has been placed against their
names in the book, it’s about a £lO-note to the heel of
Pastor Allen’s shoe that the end of their reign is
approaching. The eighty young crumpet-crunchers cm
therefore chip in. The more, the m well, we’ll say
the holier. Missionaries are never merry, except when
swinging pretty teachers at “Sabbath ” school picnics,
or flogging niggers in Africa.
How it’s done. Friend of super. — with whom
he is riding over the run—pointing to rude and small
“humpy:” “ What place is that ? ” S.: “Oh! that’s
one of my 40a portions; I took it up to block from
faking up this bit of a plain.” “But,” objected his
friend, “ there’s no one living, nor apparently has any-
one ever lived on it ” S.:“ Why, of co arse not. Don’t
you see, in due time the ground’s forfeited under the
non-residential clause ; then, of course, —- hops into
the Land Office and tries to take it up, but iu the mean-
time I pop about £3O worth of wire netting on the
ground, and I give in value of ‘ house ’ at £lO. So that
when , the selector, makes his application, I put in
my claim for £4O improvements, which I may as well
tell you—sub rosa, you know —is pretty sure of being
allowed. And then it wants the ground, which is
useless to me, you sea he’s got to ‘ fork out.’ ” Friend:
“Oh!” Super.: ‘ Yes; that’s the way wo manage
things up this way 1 ”
Some of the rules and placards of a certain
shearing shed up North “No shearer will be em-
ployed who has not undergone vaccination, and who
cannot show at lease two plainly defined cicatrices."
“ Any employs'- in the shed will be fined asunder for
the following offences: (1) For expectorating on the
floor, Is. (2) If the saliva be mingled with tobacco-
juice, 2s. (3) Profane language of any description
whatever, at the rate of Is. per oath. (4) No smoking
allowed on any pretence whatever ; if any be
detected in contravention (sic) to this law, it shall be
optional with the man in charge to either dismiss or
fine the offender the sum of 2s. 6d. (5) Every
is fully expected to attend Divine service, neatly and
respectably dressed, at least twice on each Sabbath
day; evening services throughout the week optional.
(0) Overseers will see that the shed is duly filled with
sheep not later than 4 p.m. on Sundays, ready for Mon-
day morning. (7) Any employe detected in the act of
gambling, or iu consuming spirituous liquors oa the
ground, will bo at once dismissed with forfeiture of
wages. (8) 3d. iu the £ will bo deducted out of all final
settlements, said deduction to bo applied for the benefit
of either Methodist Mission or Y.M C.A. (9) Every
shearer to wear slippers, which will be supplied at store
at ss, per pair. N.B.—The store contains a large and
varied assortment of goods, and will remain open from
6 a.m. till 8 p.m. (10) No dealers allowed on the ground
on any account."
In such small matters as tram accidents, juries
of four, small-pox, street pavement, and the like, Syd-
ney keeps pretty well to the front; but for real solid
progress in the development of the “ social evil,” Mel-
bourne is ahead. From 7 o’clock in the evening till
midnight, Coliins-street is a perfect aviary of coiled
doves, and the block up Swunston-street to Bourke-
street cannot be traversed by ladies, even accompanied
by gentlemen, unless both can be conveniently blind
and deaf to what goes on. The police seem unable to
do anything. The nightly parade is thickest opposite
the Central Court, and a visit to that place next morn-
ing exercises no terrors. Money is so plentiful that the
fairies of the footpath pay their fines with a smile, and
the more they are fined the more they don’t care. The
parade on the pavs has become such a recognized thing
that the papers cease to notice it. Even placing a
fallen woman in the van of the Salvation Army, and
marchipg her through the streets, does not seem to
have had any startling effect, except upon the larrikins,
who enjoyed the spectacle. Coliins-street East is gain-
ing a notoriety which does not enhance its attractive-
ness as a place of residence; and the Directors of the
Victoria Palace there have paid the lessee of their
oyster cellars £l5O to close them, with a view to lessen-
ing the evil. Iu consequence of late raids upon certain
streets, the railway station is now becoming a favoured
resort. What to do with the ‘‘ scarlet woman "is a
difficult question to solve in Melbourne.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Eev. Jas. Jefferia, LL.B. returns to Sydney
next month.
,£90,000 has already been expended on St.
Mary’s Cathedra), Sydney;
The sum of £2500 has been subscribed for the
families of the Wesleyan ministers drowned in the
Tararua.
The subscriptions to the Melbourne C. E.
Cathedral, received since Bishop Moorhouso’s last
address, amount to £20,599.
The Eev. A. C. Gillies, of Canada, who lectured
in Sydney some time ago, was at Trnro, S.A., at the end
of September, with the old lecture, Christianity y. In-
fidelity.
At St. John’s, Parramatta, on Sunday morning
last, it was announced that Archdeicon Hales, of
Launceston, Tasmania, would address the congregation
in the evening. Consequently, that night, the church I
was crowded, hut alas I for those who went to hear a
new man. The Archdeacon followed the illustrious
example of the Princes, and “ sold “ the people. Ho
absented himself.
The Bishop of Perth’s sermon at the Cathedral,
on Sunday afternoon, was incomprehensible to the
greater portion of his congregation, owing to the rev.
prelate being unable to sound his n’s and m’s.
On Sunday evening last, Dr. Barry delivered a
most impressive and touching sermon, in which he
dwelt upon the late sad accident at the Fortifications.
At the conclusion of the service, the organist played
“The Dead March ” very feelingly.
A t a meeting in Adelaide of persons favourable
to Bible reading in State schools, a Councillor Hagc-
dorn said Government should not allow meetings of
Freethinkers te be held in that city. Charles 11., of
pious memory, would not allow meetings of Covenan-
ters in Scotland. It seems a pity that Charles is not
King, or Sir Henry Parkes Premier, in South Australia.
Tho S. M. Herald published, it is true, a re-
port of Bishop Moorhouse’s eloquent address on
“ Slavery.” At the conclusion. Dr. Kelynack haran-
gued on tho intensely burning question of providing
the Y.M.C A. with a new hall. Would it be believed
that the Herald devotes almost the same number of
lines to Dr. K.’s remarks as to the Bishop’s oration ?
Bather rough this, on tho Bishop; but then, unfortu-
nately, he’s not a Dissenter.
The Anglo-laraelities have discovered that the
colour of the British uniform is described by tho
prophet Nahum, thus:—“The shield of His (i e , the
Lord’s) mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in
scarlet.” And they argue that it is clear from the context
Israel’s soldiers aro the ones referred to, and therefore,
either Israel’s soldiers and British soldiers are synony-
mous terms, and the British are Israel; or Israel of
tho future with her scarlet clad soldiers will yet appear
on the scene. J
It is calculated that ,£25,000 will be required to
provide new Y.M.C.A. rooms in tho heart of the city.
Tho Hon. John Frazer has promised £2000; the Hon.
S. D. Gordon £1000; and three gentlemen £5OO each.
Over £BOO was subscribed at the Protestant Hall, last
Friday night, and twenty-five members of the Associa-
tion have between them promised £lOOO. The site is to
cost £13,000. Messrs. Bussell and Sons have offered to
do the legal conveyancing without charge, and Mr.
Thomas Kowo to prepare tho plans and superintend
tho erection of the new building on tho same liberal
terms.
The Synod had a long discussion on the ques-
tion of marriage with a deceased wife’s sister, hut
came to no conclusion. The matter stands thus, there-
fore. Any clergyman can celebrate such a marriage in
the colony, but the issue will not be legitimate in Eng.
land, and many clergymen hold the view that such a
union is directly against Divino law. —A motion to ap-
prove of the use of the Bevised Version in the churohcs
here was withdrawn, after considerable opposition, on
the ground that it would be inexpedient to adopt the
new translation here before it was formally sanctioned
at home.
Just now the atmosphere of our city is pervaded
with the consciousness of tho presence of persons and
things ecclesiastical. Bishops, deans, archdeacons,
priests, representatives, cleric and lay, throng our
streets. Conspicuous among the throng stands that
gifted, genial, eloquent, and large-hearted prelate. Dr.
Moorhouse, of Yictoris. As a worshipper, his lordship
sat in the aisle of St. Mark’s, Darling Point, on tho
Sunday before last, to hear his old college friend, the
Bishop of .Newcastle, preach. An able, thoughtful,
and scholarly preacher is Bishop Pearson. Among the
congregation we noticed no fewer than thirteen clergy,
men and one archdeacon. How is that for high ?
Further intelligence has been received from
Zanzibar respecting the outrageous prooeedings of tho
Church Mission at Monbaza. The facts stated about a
month ago are fully confirmed. The superintendent
acknowledges having flogged the servants of several
Arabs to make them confess having bought soine stolen
property from natives belonging to the mission. On
their confession they wore liberated. Ho also acknow-
ledges having imprisoned an Arab of good family. It
appears, further, that the British Consul-General de-
puted his assistant tovidt Monbaza in as hi oof war,
and that the official investigations of the latter greatly
compromise the missionaries. Floggings aro tho rule
with them —floggings such as raise large weales upoa
the skin, together with sentences of three months’ im-
prisonment. Married women are subjected to these
outrages as well as males.
Bishop Moorhouse, of Melbourne, gave a Je stnro
on “Slavery” last Friday night, in the Protestant
Hall. The subject was treated literally. Slavery was
an older institution than history could explain, and it
reached gigantic proportions in ancient Greece and
Borne. The lecturer depicted its frightful evils, and
said that Christianity alone had overthrown it. No
science, no philosophy, no other moral force could do
so. The lecture was a magnificent oration,, couched in
the plainest, purest, and most forceful English. Not an
adjective was put in for effect; there was no embellish,
ment or disguise of truth by mere word-painting; no
artificial devices of oratory, or graceful gestures to
catch the eye. The language was terse and vivid; not a
word could be spared or added without detriment. Not
a note was used, not a trip of the tongue occurred ; but
with a passion and power in his voice seldom heard, the
speaker, for an hour-aud-a-quarter, held his large
audience spellbound, and tumultuous applause burst
out when he sat down. Though suffering from illness
severely during the day, the Bishop, on leaving the
hall, went straight to the Synod in Phillip-street, and
there delivered a powerful speech on the relations of
the Episcopalian Church to other denominations.
A serious disagreement arose in the C. E.
Synod on Monday evening. The Eev. Mr Garnsey
submitted a resolution in favour of a uniform service
in the church, as provided by the Prayer-book. Mr.
Shepperd Smith said that whatever might bo the
fate of this motion, and whatever might be the object
it was intended to promote, he hoped that the Prayer-
book would be purged of some portions which he
thought were a disgrace to the church, and which had
been made a compulsory portion of the worship. There
were some of the psalms of David which he thought
should be relegated to the same position as the Song of
Solomon. There were portions of the psalms of David
which were opposed to Christianity. The great Master
of the church taught us to forgive those whom Cm
psalms of David taught us to hate. It pained him to fjL
heart to have such unchristian language made a compf
sory part of the church’s service. He had thought so for ■
many years, and he had never yet been able to have the
matter settled to his satisfaction; nor had he heard
anything that would satisfactorily explain away tho
conviction which he now expressed. The retention of
such language almost justified the position taken up
by those outsiders called Freethinkers.—The Dean of
Melbourne rose to a point of order. It was perfectly
intolerable that they should como to a meeting of
Christian mon to hear the word of God spoken of in
such a manner. He thought it was perfectly horrible.
If people wished for a revision of the Psalms, they
might ask for that; but they should ask for it in
decent language. (Hear, hear.) —A. discussion hero
occurred ns to whether Mr. Smith’s language was fit
to be heard in the Synod.—Mr. Smith resumed: He
repeated that he held some of the psalms to bo anti-
Christian. (“ Oh !") As tho Bible had been revised,
so there was a Prayer-book to be revised. Ho was
willing to accept those Scripture utterances to which
he had referred as mystic utterances, bat he was not
convinced that they were wise or proper utterances to
be applied to cingregational use. (Hear, hear.) It
had been ruled that his conduct had been offensive to
his Master, and to the dignity of that Synod, in using
tho language he had used; and inasmuch as ho was not
conscious that he had used that language in excite-
ment, but as the expression of a conviction justified
by twenty years’ thoughtful consideration, he could
not conscientiously take part in the proceedings of the
Synod until that decision was removed. He did not
wish to say he was expelled. He expelled himself. Mr.
Smith then retired.—At a subsequent meeting of the
Sydnod, matters were explained, and the secretary
undertook to inform Mr. Smith that tho chairman
had not meant what his words had perhaps implied.
Misa Parnell, speaking at Leitrim recently, ad-
vised her hearers not to j>ay any rent, except “ at tho
point of tho bayonet.”
Mr. Bent, tho now Minister for Railways in
Victoria, who has been enduring a series- of P U W 1C
dinners, says ho is ashamed to look a turkey in the
face. *
“I say you ain't a gentleman. No gentleman would ’ave spoke to a lady as you’ve spoke to me.”


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv,
“ I will advertise thee.” Eiohmond Thatcher
is prepared to provide startling, interesting, and
humourous advertising paragraphs for insertion in The
Bulletin. Tradesmen wishing to increase their busi-
nesses, address or apply to Eichmond Thatcher.
Bulletin Hotel.— Adv.
Why should not John Bull make as good a tea
as John Chinaman P The Age, of October &th, says :
“We have had. further evidence that Australia is being
turned to account by makers of spurious teas in China,
as an outlet for their rubbish, which, if sent to Eng-
land, would be confiscated and burnt." If you want
pure, palatable tea, delicious in the cup and economic
in use, ask for the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pur®
Indian Teas. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place, Sydney.—Advt.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Berrima October 20, 21.
Kensington Park October 22.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Trotting Club Meeting ....October 22.
Victoria E.C. Spring Meeting Oct, 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (Yic.) November 9.
Murrumburrah November 9.
Parramatta November 9.
Narrabri November 0.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
Queensland T. C November 9, 10.
Wyndhatn (Vie.) November 19.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
P. Augusta and Flinders J.C. (S.A.)...November 28, 29.
Dunedin (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting.... Nov. 30, Dec. 1.
Wellington Eacing Club (N.Z.) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30.
Cootamundra December 1. 2.
Oamaru (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Tamora December 8, 9.
Tasmanian J.C December 10.
Bathur-t Amateur Turf Club...; December 10.
Queensland December 10.
Hamilton (Yic.) December 14, 15.
Bairnsdale (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Warialda J.C. Annual December,
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December 26.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
WUliamstown (Vic.) December 24.
Pleasant Creek (Yic.)...., December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 28.
Sydney Turf Club December 31.
Kensington Park (Vic ) December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 26; Jan. 1, 2.
V.R.C. Champion January 1.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) January 1.
Glen Innes January 2, 3.
Bronlee January 26 and 27.
Tasmanian Jockey Club February 14, 15, and 16.
Tasmanian Tnrf Club February 22, 23.
Dnnedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting... Feb. 23,24,25 —1882.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11,12—1882.
AQUATICS.
Double Bay Regatta October 29.
Ross v, Hanlan (Toronto) November 1.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
North Shore Rowing Club Regatta November 19.
South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion E,-igatta December 17.
Holdsworth, Gard.vne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
Newcastle Annual Regatta January 1.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Six days Go-as-you-please (Newcastle) October 24.
Melbourne Cricket and Football Club Sports Nov. 9.
Wallsend Sports November 9.
Windsor Sports November 9.
Eskbank Athletic Sports November 9.
CRICKET.
Intercolonial, at Melbourne December 24, 2’, 27.
All England v. Sydney December 9, 10,12,
All England v. Victoria December 16,17,19.
Holds worth-Gardyne Cup matches :
1881 1882
Oct. 22, Albert v. Warwick Jan. 21, Carlton v. Uni’ty
Oct. 29, Albert v. Warwick Jan. 28, Carlton v. Uni’ty
Nov. 5, Albert v. Uni’ty Feb. 4. Albert v. W’rwick
Nov. 12, Albert v. Uni’ty Fab. 25, Albert v. W’rwick
Nov. 19, W’rw’k v. Carlton Mar. 4, Carlton v. W’rw’k
Nov. 26. W’rw’k v. Carlton Mar. 11, Carlton v. W'rw’k
Dee. 3, Albert v. Carlton Mar. 18, Carlton v Albert
Dec. 17, Albert v, Carlton Mar. 25, Carlton v. Albert
1882 Apr. 1, Albert v. Uni’ty
Jan. 7, Warwick v. Uni’ty Apr. 8, Albert v. Uni’ty
Jan. 14, Warwick v. Uni’ty Apr. 15, W’rwick v. Uni’ty
Apr. 22, W’rwick v. Uni’ty
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC HEMS
The Wellington Cup is raised to =£soo.
Lady Emma is being well supported for the
C.J.C. Handicap.
The Wellington (N. Z.) Racing Club Cap has
been raised to £5OO.
The prizes for the Double Bay Regatta are on
view at Thompson and Giles’s.
Dr. Carver has accepted Mr. Stuart-Wortley’s
challenge to shoot in November for £5OO aside.
The N.Z. trotting horse, Native Cat, has been
purchased by Goyder, the Melbourne sportsman,
q The Eedfern Football Club trophies were secured
by Messrs. E. Munday, A. Phillips, and J. Byrnes.
Double event speculation is brisker on the forth-
. coming Canterbury (N. Z.) than it has been for years.
The South Australian Cricketing Association
i field the opening match of the season on the 22nd Oct.
Mr. Henry Redwood’s three highly-bred mares
\Eaupo, Wai-i-ti, and Toitoi, are to be • erved by Musket.
A subscription list was opened in London for
"Harry Kelley, when the news of his accident reached
rtfiere.
Hero of Waterloo v. Strathmore C.C., on Satur-
day, at Eveleigh, resulted in a win for the former by
50 runs.
TattersalTs consultation has reached to .£9OOO,
and will close about the 22ad. Jones’s No. 1 also closes
very shortly.
The Narrabri Picnic Race Club hold a meeting
on 9fch November. No less than eight contests are on
the programme.
Tom Cannon, the English jockey, was prevented
from riding at the late York meeting by an attack of
whooping-cough,
A perch, weighing 21b. 10oz., has been taken from
the Thorndon Park Heservoir (S.A.) Spawn was placed
there two years ago.
Several of the N.Z. promoters of “ consulta-
tions ’’ intend to test the new Gaming and Lotteries’
Bill in a court of law.
The other day an enthusiastic Aucklander
backed Martini-Henri (by Musket out of Sylvia) for the
Melbourne Cup, 1823, at 500 to 5.
J. P. Taylor of Newcastle, again won the One
vnile Amateur Swimming Championship of England on
13th August. Time 35 min. 27 sec.
A great cricket match takes place to-day (Thurs-
day), between elevens of the hahituis of a well-known
hostelrie and the Theatre Eoyal company.
Lieutenant W. P. Mulholland has offered a
■ silver goblet for the best not-out innings during the
series of matches for the Thomson Challenge Cup.
A rifle match has been arranged by Colonel
Downes between the Volunteers of New South Wales
and South Australia, at 300, 500, 600, and 700 yards.
An outsider, named Stanley (by Derby out of
the dam of Imperial), won the Can bridge Cup (province
■ of Auckland, N.Z ), Grand Duchess second, and Gil-
• dcroy third.
“The Murrumbidgee Turf Club have decided that
all bookmakers must be memb. rs of the local Tatter-
sail’s before they are allowed to “ field” in the grand-
-1 stand enclosure.
Despite the expressed opinions of medical men
' that Warren Smith should give up rowing, he considers
himself all right, and is determined to take part in the
] Hop Bitters Begatta.
A prize fight was arranged to take place in Hyde
' Park, London, on Sunday, August 14, The police were
about, however, and prevented this English way of
1 celebrating the Sabbath.
The Oarsman understands that Hanlan pro-
poses going to Australia in the autumn to see the
country and the people, but not to row. The Oarsman
is doubtless an evening paper.
The Wellington (N.Z.) Eacing Club stewards
have declined to remove the disqualification oil Mata,
though requested to do so by Mr. Stephenson, of Dune-
din, who has purchased the horse.
At the recent meeting of the Hawke’s Bay
(N.Z.) Jockey Club, it was mvved that the minimum
weight for flat races under one mile be 6at. lib. in-
stead of 6st. The motion was lost.
The Santa Claus sensation, so far, was only a
scare, and nothing more. Nowhere for the Caulfield
Guineas and Cup, the £60,000 has a poor show of being
won on the Melbourne Derby and Cup.
Progress will not start for the forthcoming
V.R O. meeting, one of his legs showing signs of filling,
so Wilson determine! to ease him, if possible, in order
to get him ready for the Champion Race.
Great progress is being made with the new
grand-stand at Christchurch, which will be a very
pretty and commodious one. It is expected it will be
finished in time for the November meeting.
“ For sale, new four-oared Paper Shell, Davis
slides, outriggers, and rowlocks. For five days address
Cornell Crew, 449 Strand.” That’s how they announced
their departure from England for America.
The All-England Eleven will play in a match
against Twenty-two of San Francisco, and leave th«ro
on the 22cd instant, arriving at Auckland on the 14th
November, and Sydney on the 19th November.
On the 18th August, at Crystal Palace, London,
F. Da Civry beat the best time on record for bicycling
twenty miles, covering the distance in 1 hour 4 min.
211-5 sec., being 6 sec. faster than previous best record.
G. H. Hosmer. the American sculler, has been
very unwell of late, and his right lung having been
found to bo badly affected, he has been ordered to cease
rowing for a time and go into the country for a rest.
The opening cruise of the Prince Alfred Yacht
Club took place on Saturday afternoon. _ A pleasant
sail, and a luncheon at Athol Gardens, with the usual
congratulatory toasts, made it a very enjoyable oc-
casion.
At Christchurch, N.Z., there has been a bit of
business done on the Melbourne Derby and Cup.
Somnus and Wheatear, Somnus and Bathurst, Somerset
and Somerset, and Somerset and Bathurst were each
backed.
Cricket promises to be as lively this season in
Melbourne as it is in Sydney. The Cleeland Challenge
Cup occupies the attention of the senior clubs, while
Messrs. Boyle and Scott’s Cup have put the junior
clubs on their mettle.
Glebe Strathmore first eleven defeated Woollahra
Victoria team on Saturday, at Camperdown, by 3 runs.
The second eleven beat the Lome C.C. by 50 runs and
five wickets. The Strathmore club will have something
to report about the Junior Cup,
A cricket match was played on the Albion
Ground, on Saturday afternoon, between the Maitland
Albions and the Morpeth Club, when the former won
by 60 runs. Morpeth made 89, and the Albions 149 for
eight wickets, when time was called.
The Wanganui (N.Z.) Rink Club wound up
their season with a (Steeplechase Tournament, half
mile. The course, which was a difficult one, had a
water jump. E. Clark was the winner, doing the dis-
tance in the good time of Imin. 56iec.
Most interesting sketches, entitled “ Australian
Stud Strolls,” have lately been c inducted in the
Weekly Press, Christchurch (N. Z.) All the stud
farms, stock, etc, of the principal establishments in
Sydney and Melbourne were reviewed.
Frisquette is gradually gaining popularity. A
grand opening game was played at Ashfield on Satur-
day, under the instructions of Mr. Iron.ide and Lieut.
Mulholland. The ladies entered con amove into the
contest.—Several clubs are now being f rued
At the Geraldine races (N.Z.), the Publican’s
Purse was won by Patsy Butler’s sprinter Luna, Bst.
31b , beating Coldstream, On Dit, and three others.
Luna also appropriated the Flying Handicap. The
Geraldine Cup resulted in favour of Coldstream, Hilda
second, Don Juan third.
Two N.Z. “ peds.,” Drummond and Wakefield,
had a twelve hours’ go-as-you-please match, in the open
air, at Wellington, for £5O aside. Drummond was
seized with cramp internally two hours after starting,
but kept up over nine hours, when he had to give in.
Wakefield had done his 54 miles.
Mr. Charles Eeed, of Saratoga, seems to be
allowing Trickett to cut out his own course. In reply
to an interviewer recently Mr. Reed there was a
home for Trickett; and Kelley at his farm »n Saratoga
Lake as long as they liked, and they could make
whatever engagements they choose.
The N.Z. writer, “ Beaeon,” in his notes says :
—” I was glad to see Mata out doing walking exercise a
few days ago. Le Loup is looking well, and his party
have been backing him of late for the Canterbury J.O.
Handicap and Cup; but I think the question of his
standing a thorough winding up is still a moot point.
At the Newmarket (England) meeting, the race
for the Cm-arewich Stakes, on 11th October, resulted:
Foxhall 1, Chippendale 2. Fiddler 3. The Middle Park
Plate on the 12th : Lord Rosebery's Kermesse 1, Mr. P.
Lorillard’s Gerald 2, St. Marguerite 3. The Champion
Stakes, on the 13th ; Bend Or 1, Scobell 2, Iroquois 3.
The Hon. W. Robinson, the well-known N.Z.
so' rtsman and horse owner, speaking on the Gaming
and Lotteries Bill, said that he had had many trans-
actions with bookmakers, and would taie tho verbal
engagement of one of them to pay £lO.OOO as freely as
he would take the best cheque in the world for the same
amonut.
Elias Laycock took very little notice of the slurs
and insinuations of the general public, but when he
heard that certain persons well up in rowing matters
had not been sparing his reputation he felt hurt. He
threatened one gentleman with legal proceedings for
his defamatory expressions; the latter, however, satis-
fied the injured sculler by the abjectness and sincerity
of his apology.
three-mile boat-race was pulled on the Mac-
leay River, on Saturday afternoon, between Edward
Hannell, of Newcastle, and Charles Smith, of Macleay
River, for a £5 trophy, and was won by the latter by
50 lengths. At a mile Hannell was leading, when his
stretcher broke. Time, 27 min. The race was rowed
against a head wind.
The Agent, with 12st. 41b. up, won the Hurdle
at the Geraldine (N.Z.) meeting ; Bigon was second,
and Swindler third. Huntingdon also ran. The owner
of Huntingdon was not satisfied with the result, and a
match was made with The Agent, two miles. £lOO a
side Great interest was manifested in the race, which
resulted in a victory for The Agent. Huntingdon led
till near the finish.
The contest for the championship of Halifax
Harbour (Nova Scotia), on the 11th August, resulted in
a “fizzle.” Albert Himm, Warren Smith, and John
Maokay had entered, but some alteration having been
made in the usual course, all but Hamm refused to row.
The fist-named, by order of the committee, sculled over
the course, accompanied by Conley, of Portland, and
Fred Plaisted, of Boston.
The general entries for the V.R.C. Spring meet-
ing closed as follow:—Melbourne Stakes 13, Hoth«m
Handicap 35, Essendon Stakes 16, Coburg Stakes 44,
Maiden Plate 16, Railway Stakes 23, Kensington Stakes
25 Melbourne Cap, acceptances 59, Yan Yean Stakes
54’ Darling Stakes 16, Hurdle Race 18, Eoyal Park
Stakes 16, Flying Stakes 51, Spring Handicap 46,
Veteran Stakes 43, Flemington Stakes 52, V.R C Han-
dicap 38, Steeplechase 18, Canterbury Plato 18, Free
Handicap 55.
The Hon. W. Robinson, owner of the N.Z.
horse Gr : p, backed him at Christchurch Tattersall’s,
through his commissioner, for, the Q G. C. Handicap
for 417,000 te £255, and also for the Cup at £l5OO to
£225. Grip is now at 100 to 25 for each event and is
' heavily backed by the public. Mata has oeen backed
for the Cup at 100 to 30 bv the Dunedin people, who
have put down about £2OOO. The Peeress colt and
Dauphin continue the best favourites for the Derby,
thdr price being 3 to 1.
The Armidale Jockey Club’s annual meeting
was held at Tattersall’s Hotel, oh Thursday, the 13th
instant. The balance-sheet disclosed over £lOO profit
during the year, a portion of which was voted towards
paying off the debt contracted by the old club. Officers
were elected, and the programme for the ensuing year
adopted, with £5OO added money, including the New
England Cup, Hurdle Race, City Handicap, and an
Athletic Cup of 25 sovs. The races are to come off on
the 26th and 27th January.
Cary, of N. Z. “ Pirates ” fame, and Belcher,
a well-known bookmaker, weighing about 15 stone, had
a boat race in Christchurch. The distance was a mile,
the representative of opera having his boat ballasted up
to the weight of his opponent. The latter was looked
upon as certain to win; but on this occasion, at any
rate, piracy was made to pay, for much to the surprise
of the spectators the bulkier of the twain came in some
half-dozen lengths behind his rival. The Pirate King
asserted he was prepared to repeat his feat orph—no,
frequently.
The New York Herald of 6fch August con-
tains the following:—“ Saratoga, sth August.—Edward
Trickett, of Australia, is anxious to make a match with
any oarsman in the Uniced States, tor £2OOO a side,
the race to be rowed on Saratoga Lake, three miles
straight away, on the 20th of the present month.
Trickett’s money is now in the hands of Colonel Bruce,
of the Turf, Field, and Farm, who is to be the final
stakeholder. The match will be left open for five days.
Any communication sent to Mr. Charles Eeed, Saratoga
Springs, will meet with Tricket’s immediate attention.”
Edward Trickett has challenged Hanlan to row
for the championship of the world and £4OO a-side.
Hanlan has accepted the challenge, and it is proposed
that the contest shall take place at St. Louis on the
22nd November. It has come at last. We thought
Trickett had an end in view in visiting America. He
stated before he left England that if there was any
secret in Hanlan’s rowing he would find it out. No man
challenges another without some prospect of winning.
Is it probable that Ned has got to the bottom of the
mystery P Hew much Australian money will be cabled
this time ?
The Eastwood hounds had a splendid run on the
13th, at Wallsend. The take off was at the back of the
court-house, over a two-rail fence into the race-course,
then through some farms of light fences to a very stiff
five-foot fence, which was duly negotiated by the whip,
W. Howard, on Eufus, followed by T. Lnckey, on
Satellite, Mr. Terry here coming to grief, on Babing-
ton. The field, about 70 horsemen, were blocked, and
Howard and Luckey had the rest of the run, about six
miles, with plenty of rasping fences. The drag was
laid by Dr. Nash on Darby the Blast. Another run
takes place, at Maitland, after a dingo.
The Wollongong Races on the 12th and 18th
instant, resulted as follows First Day. Hurdle Race :
Safeguard 1, Jupiter 2, Cleon 3. Maiden Plate : Oscar
1, Paul 2, Julian 3. Prince of Wales Stakes : Barmaid
1, Lightfoot 2, Thorn 3. Wollongong Handicap:
Queensbery 1, Dundreary 2, JulianS. Plying Handi-
cap : Numba 1, West Country Dick 2. Second Day.
District Purse: Jack 1, Postcard 2, Thorn 3. Town
Plate: Lord Oryille 1, Brilliant 2. Selling Stakes:
First Try 1, Lightfoot 2, Firetail 3. Tom Thumb
Handicap: Silver Arrow 1, West Country Dick 2,
Eclipse 3 Farewell Handicap : Masquerade 1, Kelso
2, Boniface 3,
The New York Sun remarks :—“ If scullers
are to be attracted to the Tyne in September it must be
done by some influence inside or outside the 200 es, cup
of the London Sportsman. The intrinsic value of a
cup counts for nothing to the man who wins it. He
does not row for it to sell it, and he can’t very well
carry it on his watch-chain. A cup worth two hundred
pennies would be just as precious for rowing purposes
as one worth as many pounds. The Staten Island
fishermen regularly every fall have a lively and hotly-
contested race for a rusty old tin coffee-pot that was
found on the beach, and they have as good a time of it
as if it were worth thousands of dollars."
The second day’s play for the Holdsworth-
Gardyne Cup puts the University club well in, and adds
another tribute to the uncertainty of cricket. Follow-
ing are the scores Carlton C.C., first innings : C.
Bannerman, c Jones, b Allen, 17; A. Bannerman, c
Wilkinson, b Jones, 110; Davis, b Jones, 36; M‘Crea, b
Jones, 2; Webster, b Powell, 4; Wearue, run out, 1;
Nunn, b Garrett, 0; H. Hall, b Powell, 1; Callachor, b
Allen, 26; G. Hall, b Garrett, 4; Geary, not out, 79-
sundries, 21. Total, 301. University, first innings;
Jones, c Callachor, b Wearne, 100; E. Teece, run out,
48; Garrett, c 6. Hall, b Geary, 29; Allen, not out, 16;
Coates, not out, 26—sundries, 33. Three wickets for
252.
The results of the events of the second day of
the New South Wales Association Regatta, are as
follow :—First Race —Grand Challenge Cup, for junior
oarsmen, in four-oar clinker-built outriggers : S.E.C.,
J. A. Brodie (bow), W. F. Kloster, N. Johnson, C. W.
Gaden, J. Gates (cox.), 1; M.E.C., H. Wilkinson (bow),
A. Coker, W. Blackstone, F. Bull (stroke), W. Foster
(cox.), 0. Second Race —The Mayor’s Grand Challenge
Cup: Eoyston College, A. Brookes (bow), P. Sparrow,
Old, A. Campbell (stroke), 1; Sydney Grammar School,
Thompson, Hall, Charles, and Bellbridge, 0. Third
Race—The Sydney Mail Challenge Prize; champion
course, Parramatta River; distance, 3 miles 300 yards :
M.R.C., W. G. Brett, list. 71b„ 1; M.E.C., C. A. Bros,
lOst. 81b., 0,
Victorian Amateur Turf Club meeting.—First
day :—Selling Race, half mile : Bruno 1, Avon 2,
Cora, 3. Hurdle Race, two miles : Dhurringhile (lOst
91b) 1, Black Prince (9st 91b) 2, Rhesus (lOst 21b) 3.
Great Foal Stakes, half mile : Frying-pan 1, Satanella
2. Caulfield Guineas, one mile : Wheatear 1, Eoyal
Maid 2, Topaz 3. Corinthian Flat Race, one mile :
Robbie Burns 1, Bnzza 2. Toorak Handicap, one mile :
Josephine(6st 101b)l,Belladrum(8st 21b)2, Hilarious(Bst
111 b) 3. Second day: Second Handicap Hurdle Race: Van
Tromp 1, Zanga 2, Sportsman 3. Nursery Handicap:
Nadgee 1, Tangle 2, Sir Oliver 3. Caulfield Cup:
Master Avenel 1, Pirate 2; Pindon Harriers Gold Cup :
Syphon 1, Fickle 2, Nimbook 3. Steeplechase : First
Love 1, Crysalis 2 ; Abdallah 3. Windsor Handicap :
Napper Tandy 1, Pirate 2, Haidee of the Hills 3.
There is a good deal of truth in the following
remarks from the pen of “ Mazeppa,” of the Dunedin
(N.Z ) Saturday Advertiser. He says “It is nearly
time that somebody stood up for the bookmakers.
They have been vilified long enough. Because of the
blackguard actions of a few of the riff-raff who have
crept in among them, the whole fraternity have been
almost universally condemned as scoundrels ; yet they
have borne these misrepresentations, if not with
patience, at least with silence. The most irritating
feature about this continued persecution is that while
the * boys ’ are charged with being cheats, they are the
cheated, or at any rate they are by many folk kept out
of their money for a very long while, which is a pretty
near approach to cheating. If everyone were to get
his own to-morrow, the book-makers —I refer of course
to the respectable ones—would be much richer than they
are to-day.”
The race for the Coat and Badge, instituted in
the year 1715 by that most loyal of comedians, Thomas
Doggett, took place over the course from London-
bridge to Chelsea, on Saturday, July 30. The oom.
petitors, with their positions at the finish, read as
follows, stations counting from the Middlesex shore :
First station : G. Olaridge, Richmond, 1. Sixth station ;
W. Smith, Deptford, 2. Second station; T. G. Black-
man, Lambeth, 3. Third Station; G. E. Martin,
Greenwich. 4. Fifth station: W. J. Thomas, Battersea,
5, Fourth station : W. C. Metcalfe, Tower, 0. Claridge
eventually sculled easily up to the judge’s boat in 30min.
55sec. from the start. Smith’s time was 38min. 20sec,
Blackman’s 38min. 25sec,, and Thomas’s 40min. ssec.
Martin was several minutes later than this, and Met-
calfe, who was swamped half-way through the race, did
not finish. Two steamers followed the contest, besides
the official boat chartered by the Fishmongers’ Com-
pany.
“ Nemo ” comes off this time with a splendid
tip. In Saturday’s Herald, he mentions Master
Avenel as the horse for the Cauifiald Cup,
should he receive the support of his party. Of course,
he received their support, and they are to be congratu-
lated on their glorious win. Strange to say, Master
Avenel has been noticed in the dailies in connection
with this race as much as any other horse engaged,
though in an inverse ratio. In Friday’s Evening
News, he is last on the list of acceptances; in Satur-
day’s Herald it is stated that “ueaily all the ac-
ceptors, with the exception of Master Avenel, hare
been freely backed.” His gallops have been recorded
as nothing phenomenal by the Melbourne scribes.
“ Tout Cela," of the Melbourne Sportsman, dis-
missed him with the simple remark that “ if he be
saddled up, it won’t much signify." And yet, he won
it. It will have been noticed, perhaps, that we never
attempt to tip.
There is still some misapprehension on the part
of some of the junior clubs as to the qualifications of
the players. Dnncrm was justly disqualified, for he is
certainly a professional player, although not acting in
that capacity to the National Club. Pat Sheridan or
Charles Bannerman in his place in the National Club,
and the objection appears very just. The Nationals
have withdrawn from the contest—very unwisely, we
think, for, without Duncan, they are still good enough
to win the Cup. The Cup Committee will have some
work before them, as we know of various dodges being
resorted to by competing cluls to strengthen their
ranks, and the condition clause, without altering the
terms, should be revised, as there is at present this
glaring anomaly that no person can be allowed to take
part who “shall have any intention to play in matches
with a senior club during the present season.” So that,
for instance, Searle, who batted so well for tho S.U.C.G.,'
would, by joining the Alberts now, disqualify his club
from further competition. The conditions should not
be anticipatory.
A sculling match for a trophy, valued <£so, was
lately arranged to come off at Middle Harbour Oct., 25,
in best and best boats, between Edward Smith and M.
Byrnes. The latter’s training was superintended by
Elias Laycock, whilst Tommy Kelly attended to the
former’s. The competitors are not in the front rank of
amateur oarsmen, and, doubtless, never will be, as a
special article in the conditions precludes forfeit should
either be attacked by gout or rheumatism. They ore
both well-known aquatic patrons, and the match was
made amongst the “ talent.” Steamers were engaged
to follow the race, and the men were undergoing a
rigorous course of trriniug, but, evidently getting
something like a “ stage fright," they advertised on
Saturday that so much publicity having been given to
a private contest they hod postponed the race. It is to
be hoped, in the interest of sport, that the race will
come off, as the public aie now naturally anxious to
know who is the better man. Public confidence has
been so much shaken lately by the untoward results of
aqnatio events that a great race between two “straight”
men would be watched with considerable interest.
The committee entrusted with the arrangements for tho
event are Messrs. Ned Jones, Steve Punch, Andrew
Wadsworth, Evan Jones, Tommy Kelly, Frank Punch,
Harry Ireland, and Elias Laycock.
The Sydney University Athletic Club meeting
took place on Wednesday, October 12, at the Associa.
tion Ground. Following are the results:—loo Yards
Flat Race.—Challenge Cup: J. F. Elphinstone 1, F. B.
Wilkinson 2. Schools Kace, 440 yards flat: J. Parker
(Sydney Grammar) 1; F. Sparrow (Eoyston College) 2.
Time, 55 sec. 150 Yards Flat Race (handicap) : F. P.
Brennan, scratch, 1; G. C. Addison, 6 yards, 2; E. C.
Allen, 10 yards, 3. Time, 16 min. 9-10th see. Half-mile
Flat Race (handicap): G. L. Tange, 50 yards, 1; W.
Amess, 45 yards, 2; J. A. Buckland, scratch, 3. Time,
2 min. 7i sec. College Handicap, 300 yards, flat: P. J.
Kenna, scratch (St. John’s), 1; S. Jamison, 17 yards
(St. Paul’s), 2. Time, 36 sec. Hurdle Race (120 yards,
handicap): Q. C. Addison, owes 15 yards, 1; J. M’Gninn,
owes 2 yards, 2; J. Thompson, owes 5 yards, 3. Time,
22 sec. Maiden Walking Race (1 milej: E. C. Allen 1,
J. Proctor 2. Time, 9 min. 7 sec. Bicycle Race (1
mile, handicap); A. Lee, 180 yards, 1; H. Moyse,
scratch, 2; G. Say well, 108 yards, 3. Time, 3 min.
17i sec. 440 Yards Fiat Race (handicap) : G. C. Addi-
son, 20 yards, 1; P. B. Wilkinson, scratch, 2;J. E.
Flynn, 8 yards, 3. Time not taken. One Mile Flat
Race (handicap): J. A. Buckland, scratch, 1; E.
Campbell, 80 yards, 2. Time, 5 min. 17 sec. 200 Yards
Plat Race (handicap): T. W. Garrett, scratch, 1; G C
Addison, 8 yards, 2; L. F. Bucknell, 10 yards, 3.
Bicycle Race (four miles, handicap): H. Moyse, 105
yards, 1; G. Godwin, scratch, 2. Time, 14 min. 57 sec.
Undergraduates’ Race (220 yards, flat): F. B. Wilkinson
1, G. C. Addison 2. Time, 271 see. Strangers’ 300
Yards Flat Kace (handicap) : H. Phillips, 15 yards, 1;
E. A. Grainger, 12 yards, 2; J. Denchar, 12 yards, 3.
Time, 33J sec. 100 Yards Bicycle Slow Race : E. C.
Wood 1. Forced Handicap: Tange, 11 yards, 1;
Brennan, 3 yards, 2.
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
The senior landing waiters in H.M. Customs are
the perfection of courtesy—when everybody is sober.
Ted Butler is said to have made ,£3OOO by West
Chums—bought at two.bob— sold at a fiver. This even
better than law.
Bob Young is the most popular amateur comiqua
this side of the line. St. George’s Hall—change the
venue, Bob, change the venue.
Walter Conway should stand a good show for
the prize offered by the Launceston Theatre Co. for the
plan and specifications as advertised.
The Eoyal Tasman’s crushing was an unwel-
come surprise for the shareholders. Ben Thompson
has made a loss of 400 pence by the fall in shares.
Burls is thinking of going to Sydney to arrange
a 48-hours’ go-as-you-please with Baker or Edwards.
He says his fat friend from Yorkshire will accompany
him as trainer.
Betsy, of the Audit Office, wears the champion
belt, now John Webb’s gone, as cook down below, for
light but emphatic swearing—hcomorihage on the tongue
some people call it.
Ladies school—elopement—midnight—discover-
ed— tableau —lovier—father —denouement —bushed iip—•
*’ w lfl he expelled next time”—delays dangerous—more
anon—pretty girl—blue eyes.
Sydney engineers will have to be on the look
out for a Tasmanian representative in a few days. Mr.
Thomas Bowden, from Launceston, intends making
Sydney or Newcastle his home for a few years.
Hobart is a great yachitng place—it always was
—even six days a week aren’t enough ; for the Rachel
Thompson goes out on Sundays with a party of ladies
and gentlemen, looking for cormorants. The birds are
very plentiful.
Little Harcourt, the present Mayor of Hobart,
is one of the smallest men in this hemisphere—out of a
show. He isn’t a Scotchman, but he knows a bawbee
when he sees one, and is said to have “ saved up " all
his Mayoral salary.
There has been an eight-hours’ “go-as-you-
please "at Launceston; and, although it was not for
women, it is described as one of the most disgraceful
shows that has been held in the Tight Little Island for
some years—several jail-birds being prominently to the
fore in the ‘‘crowd” throughout. There were sicken-
ing episodes, such as a trainer spitting water on to his
man as he passed, in lieu of going to the expense of
providing a sponge, or even a squirt. The Rifle Band
was in attendance, and played some lively airs, under
the leadership of Finlay. The hall was advertised to
be splendidly decorated for the occasion, but the splen-
dour consisted only of two flags from a coasting vessel
being hung across the door of the dressing-room.
Alderman Farrelly, for some unaccountable reason, was
not present to hand the prizes over to the successful
competitors, who were: O’Toole, Forbes, and West; so
Tom Gould, a member of the Rifle Corps, acted in his
Stead. Tom had his speech written in his pocket-book,
and held it so nervously that several nasty jars were
the result. The Launceston Council should make en-
quiries for the future before letting the Pavilion for
such disgraceful exhibitions.


c
ASH PEICE LIST OP WII
SPIRITS.
Claret
Did wood
Hermitage ..
Shiraz
Burgundy ..
Sweet Shiraz
Eeisling
Dal wood
Hook
Madeira
Bonffier's Pincau..
Brown Muscat ...
COLONIAL WII
BED.
per doz.
... 9s Od
... 10a Od
... 10a Od
... 11s Od
... 12a 6d
... 13a Od
WHITE.
J.T. 1
Adelai
(riel
type
Adela
9s Od
10s Od
10s Od
11s Od
15s Od
15s Od
Good Port
Linde
cat,
Tokaj
roui
flavi
Linde
vint
FOREIGN WIN
21a to 3Gs Od | Good
SPIRITS.
Rum,
59a Od “
Cose
Hennesay’s
Brandy 59a Od Bum,
Hennessy’s ••• Jan
Case Brandy ... 71s Od Bum,
Good Pale French Jan
Brandy 45s Od
Good Dark French Brant
Brandy 45s Od Cas
Walker’s Old Gin,
; Highd. Whisky.. 46a Od 15 1
Kemp’s Scotch sizt
Whisky 42a Od Gin,
Burke’s ••• Case 15 :
Whisky 38s 6J sizt
Other Brands Irish Wolf
Whisky ... 37s to 45a Od
ALES AND STO
per doz.
Bulldog Ale, qts.... lls Od Boar’
Bulldog Ale, pints 8a Od pin
Foster’s Ale, qts... lls Od Fosti
Foster’s Ale, pints. 8a Oa „
Aitken’s Ale, qts... 10s Od Pig
Dryborough’s Ale, qu«
pints 6s 6d Pig
Boar’s Head Stout, pin
quarts , 9s 9d
W Country Orders lor Ales an
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints o
6d. per dozen extra will bo ehargt
A Sample Dozen of assorted hot
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Offl
All Goods delivered carriage fi
town or to the Wharves or Bed
Terms —Prompt Nett Cash on giv
T. VIVIAN EAI
WINE & SPIRIT ME
65 Pitt-street,
T. OVEE S OP GOOD
We beg to draw
PARTICULAR ATT
to the
ASIATIC TEA
PACKET TI
Packed |in pounds and ha
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2a. and
PURE INDIAN TEA,
2a. 6d.
PURE CEYLON TEA,
2a. 6d.
PORE JAVA TEA,
23. 6d.;
Special Quotations given to W
Country Orders promptly
ASIATIC TEaTcO
279 PITT STREET (next
SYDNEY.
JgMALL POX. g
PREVENTION IS BETTE 1
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHE
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX.
Chemists.
UNIVEESIT Y
Affiliated to Trin. C
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM 1
Principal :
Dr. RODWAY, M.A., F.
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY e
ROD WAY, and the number of at
strictly limited to TEN, so that
gentleman that individual attonl
secure success. Dr. Rodway’s sj
cient, and he guarantees to pas
TP you aro asked to buy a M
by “ The Singer C 0.,” but re
being on the “ Singer System " 01
take Punch's advice to those aboi
SINGERS SEWING
ARE MADE ONL
The Singer Manufactui
Head OfSoes
31 UNION SQUARE. NE'W
Chief Office in En
39 OSTER LANE,
Dep6t for New Sout]
No. 1 DA LING STORES, HA
SYDNEY.
s
I
N
G
E
li
SINGER’S SEWING :
HAVE
All the Latest Imprc
SINGER’S SEWING :
FOR
Largest Variety of
SINGER’S SERVING ;
FOR
Strength and Beauty
SINGER’S SEWING :
FOR
Embroidery, Braiding, a
SINGER’S SEWING ;
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and
SINGER’S SERVING :
FOR
Kilting, Cording, and
Singer’s Sewing Machines agaim
all the World’s SI
FIRST PLACE 160
CAUTION ! CAUTION !!
See that oar name and trade-marl
without which none ar
Ten per cent, disconni
2s. 6d. WEEKLY,
From all Agents, a:
THE COMPANY’
No. 1 DARLING S r .
HARBOUR STREET,
gINGEE’S SEWING
TURNER &(
ARE THE
RECOGNISED .
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANI
TIME PAYMEN
3s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per weol
And NO INTEREST cl
10 per cent, off for
BEWARE OP IM IT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY •• SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOI
SEWING MACHR
HATMARKE'
Sip Sewing .
i#..u /
OUR PRISON SYSTEM.
BY ONE WHO KNOWS.
I arrest you on a charge of forgery ! ’ said
Detective Lyons to me, as he laid his hand on my
shoulder in Georgo-streot, and I knew that my doom
was sealed.
• • •
Oh, that horrible first night in the Central Police
Station, when the vampire of solf-roproaah gnawed away
the finest sensibilities Of my heart, and I began to
realise that a moment’s error had caused a life's ruin t
m * *
Committed, tried, convicted!—throe years’ hard
1 ibour. Oh, what an eternity it appeared to me, and
yet it is not much more thau three years ago I
* * *
A years’ sentence, and upwards, involves
a sojourn in Berrima of nine months in “ separate
treatment;’’ and thither I was sent, with four other
poor devils.
* * #
“ He who enters here loaves hope behind,”
might well be the motto for every prison, but more
especially for Berrima, which is, of all places in the
colony, the most oold, dreary, and miserable in winter
time.
# # #
Having entered the grim portals of the gaol,
chained hand and foot, the shackles wore first removed,
and after that I was brought before the redoubtable
Mr. William Small—whose very name used to inspire
mo with shivering terror—and interrogated.
* # *
Mr. Small is a man of formidable aspect, and
possessed of a kind of grim humour. When mv exami-
nation was over, he addressed me thus;—“Now, pay
attention to this. It you behave yourself, you will be
as comfortable as circumstances permit; but if you
break the rules, you will be severely punished. We have
dark cells that are not pleasant, and, besides, we have—
this.”
• m *
“ This ” was a peculiar instrument, called a gag
—about which there was such a row shortly altarwards.
It is made of wood, aad consists of a cylindrical cork-
like piece, having a tube in it, to which is attached a
semi-circular plate, which, when applied effectually,
closes the mouth. The tube is inserted into the culprit's
mouth, occasionally two inches, and then the machine
is fastened round the head with leather straps, while
the prisoner is handcuffed behind his back By law
it must not bo used for a longer time than 20 minutes
on anyone during 2i hours, and it is never put on except
to stop foul language. It was the indiscriminate nso of
this instrument by Mr. Small that brought about the
Koval Commission, but it was not proved that he
had abused his powers. If any respectable person bad
listened to the language I have hoard, I believe ho would
havo thought no immediate punishment adequate.
• • •
Berrima Gaol is built on the pattern of the ooat-
of-arms of the Isle of Man—three wings form ono build-
i ug, without at all carrying out the idea of a Panopticon.
I was bathed and primly clothed, the rules were read to
mo, and I was shown into cell No. 41, lower floor.
That is a nice habitation, to be sure; something loss
than Bft. in length and s(t. in width ; it h&a a rough
stone floor, and fiom this space is taken the fastened
table in the corner, about 2ft. by 13iu., so that loco-
motion is limited. There is a wimiowoponing which,
you, of course, cannot reach, and the bedstead is of a
moat remarkable construction—to wit, three baskets,
each about 2Jft. square. The three laid out together
mike your bedstead, and when set on end in tho day.
time it is your chair. The bedding is good.
• • •
I was supplied with library and religious books,
a id in a sort of way instructed to become a tailor.
One hour a day is allowed for exercise in a yard whore
you must walk in tho centre, and (as elsewhere) hold
yoar tongue. The temptation to communicate with
your neighbour is always strong, and often leads to
trouble for those who encoamb; but I never felt
sufficient interest hi any one to endanger my remission.
*' * •
The grand deprivation which ” separate treat-
ment’* implies is tobacco, which is very difficult to
obtain; and, when surreptitiously obtained, treasured up
as gold. It must bo acknowledged that no one is over-
fed, and that some havo “ pinching guts,” for this is
the daily ration scalel2oz. broad, 2oz. cooked moat
the first mouth, and 4oz. afterwards, 1 pint soup, 6oz.
potatoes, and hominy morning and night, undo of 12oz.
maize meal, about 1 pint each time. This is, especially
in the beginning, a most unsavoury meal, as no sugar is
allowed. Each prisoner is weighed onoo a week, and
the doctor occasionally takes compassion on such as
clearly suffer from hunger, and increase their rations.
He is tho only person who has tho power to do so.
• • •
After five weeks in that horrible dungeon, No.
41, I was removed up-stairs; and, though it was colder
there, how princely did No. 55 seem compared to the
apartments I had left. A cell quite 12ft. by 12ft,
wooden floor, and above clear daylight instead of semi-
darkness in which I had dwelt before.
mm*
About the management of Berrima Gaol a good
deal has been said and written, and I may as well give
my opinion. Separate treatment is hard punishment
to roughs and larrikins, but to a studious uud contera-
plative mau, who, with regret, it not repentance, accepts
his fate, it is infinitely superior to any ordinary gaol,
where you must come into contact with all sorts of
persons.
* • •
Tho Visiting Justice, Mr. Wilshira, is just and
impartial; the surgeon attentive when it is required,
but not easy to humbug; the warders, te a man, in
deadly terror of William Small. And tho said William
Small, himself i 1 Well, no doubt, he has been a very
tough customer to deal with, but from all I saw of him
(once a day, while I was there), and from all I have
heard from those whose testimony is worth a rap, ho is
fair and impartial te everyone who endeavours to follow
the rules; but if a man time after time offends, he has
n bitter, bitter enemy to encounter in him, particularly
it he uses bad language.
« « «
The cleanliness is perfect, but tho water and
sewerage art mgemeuts defective. No women are im-
prisoned at Berrima.
mm*
I will now narrate a few incidents of Berrima :
BARRY CUMMINGS, THE BUSHRANGER,
was confined there under “separatetreatment,” for tho
second time, several years ago. He was up-stairs, and
after having fulled in more than one attempt both to
ojeape and to “ malinger,” ho one day thought of play-
ing a trick. He was ono of tho " irrepressibles ” at
tha* time, and a don of his profession, and hated Small
cordially. Now, the gaoler’s residence is exactly
oppositsthe entrance to tho wing, and a broad staircase
ends not more than about K) feet from the back of tbo
gaoler’s house, through which a passage runs. As I
said, Cummings one day thought of playing a trick, and
it was this : Whan a prisoner is to go to exercise, ho is
“ warned” by the attendant warder, who puts in his
boots through a hole in tho door, and ho is to be ready
five minutes later. Cummings, instead of putting on
tho boots, undressed himself completely, and when tho
door was opened, ho pushed hastily by tho warder and
rushed downstairs with irresistible impetuosity right
into the gaoler’s parlour, where Mrs. Small and two or
three of her female children were engaged with needle-
wjrk. Here the naked man with scornful laughter
began to dance around the table like a satyr on tho
spree, to the indescribable fright of the females, who
of course began to scream. At that very moment Mr.
Small came round from tho stable, leading his horse,
intending to go for a ride, carrying in his hand a nice
and flexible whip. Hearing the screams, he ran in the
front way, and for once in his life lost power of both
speech and action when ho saw what was going on, but
as soon os Cummings became aware of hie presence he
skedaddled up-stairs again, where by this time the
warders had recovered from their amazement. Small,
also recovering himself (or, perhaps, I should say losing
himself)," was not alow to follow, and taking four strides
at a time, he reached Cummings’ cell before the door
could be closed. Ho had his riding-whip in his hand,
and then there followed a castigation such as probably
very few have ever experienced.
* * *
Was Small wrong P Officially, yes. But, as a
husband and father ? Cummings, himself years after-
wards, acknowledged that he fully deserved “ that blis-
tered hiding; ” and the Comptroller-General, who
specially went to investigate the affair, said that
“though ho felt bound to reprimand the gaoler, he felt
bound to say that the provocation was too strong for
ordinary human nature to withstand.”
# # #
Ee-transferred to Darlinghurst, there to under-
go the remainder of my sentence, I found myself in
palace-like quarters, although, to bo sure, both the
drawing-rooms and bod-rooms are of rather small
dimensions. The company is, in the strictest sense of
the word, “select,” although divided into sections; at
all events, in complete agreement upon one point—mis-
trust, if not hate, towards their entertainers, the
officials. Of these I will first speak, believing that to
obtain a fair insight as to the working-out of this
lamentable system, it is necessary to know the indi-
vidnals to whom that, and on an average 600 souls are
confided. The Principal Gaoler, Mr. Head was
originally an inspector in our police force. I
remember him as far back as 185?, having charge of
the police at the Port Curtis rush, near Rockhampton
—that gigantic failure which ruined so many. He was
appointed to his present position in February, 1861,
Mr. Read possesses all the qualities necessary
to rule and having for years had it all his own
way, ho has 11 organized " the establishment according
to his own sweet will, and it goes like clockwork
Judicially, he is fair, and as an administrator
nearly perfect. That he is blinded to the
defects of the “ system,” I strongly doubt; but as
he has to carry it out, I suppose ho acts as a good
soldier would—“ obey orders and ask no questions."
* # #
The official next in standing is the Doctor- that
Doctor who so very pleasantly got £5OO from the
Evening News. Doctor O’Connor is beloved
by all the prisoners. He is not only civil In
speech, for he addresses them as if they belong to the
same human species as himself (contrasting strongly
with his predecessor, the late Dr. Aaron, who treated
them worse than dogs), but bo is realty ns careful of
their health as it they individually gave him half-a-
gninea for each visit. Where honour is due, lab it be
given, and I say advisedly that since Doctor O'Connor
was appointed,the ailing prisoners have found a relief and
a wonderful improvement in treatment. Apart from his
undoubted skill (of which I have seen at least one
wonderful proof), ho is considerate to the old, and
allows extra rations of tea and sugar to snob as—accord-
ing to his judgment—deserve It. Ho and the Principal
Gaoler ore at dead loggerheads. That is a matter of
oonrse, as each of them, so to say, claims to be the
highest authority.
• * •
There is only one man in the whole gaol service
of whom I have never heard a prisoner complain. It is
an extraordinary 1 lung that a man should have been a
minor and superior officer for over thirty years in
Darlinghurst Gaol, and that of the thousands of
prisoners who have passed through his hands, as it
wore, not one should be found to complain of unfairness,
partiality, or harshness. And yet it is so. That man
is Mr. Michael Burke, chief warder there. He is one
of Nature’s gentlemen ; and if such men os those could
bo procured, prison discipline might bo what it ought to
be. It gives mo the greatest pleasure lam likely to
feel, again to publicly place on record that of the hun-
dreds I have met in that dreary abode not one over
hinted that Mr, Burke could descend to a meanness,
or endeavour to take advantage of a man’s position,
but on the contrary,was ever willing to assist, protect,
ndvise—yes, »nd oven go out of his way to help—a
deserving subject.
• # «
The clergymen do not, in my opinion, exert the'r
influence half as much as they ought to do. I gne s
they have found ont that their mauvais sujets promise a
groat deal more than they intend to keep, and they get
sick of them, but it may be questionable if it is correct
policy to " give n man up” because he Is a persistent
sinner, from a clerical point of view. Nevertheless,
they do some good. Not with their sermons. Heaven
forfend I Who would willingly go to a free church,
and listen to such dreary discourses as those
given by the Rev. Mr. Rich P During the last
few months the Roman Catholics have been supplied
with a new priest, and, I believe, a good one. One
who officiated some years before, wre a caution. I
have now before me an extract which I (surreptitiously
listening to his sermon on the stairs leading to tho
Chureh of England vestry) took down in shorthand
It is a specimen of eloquence I hope rarely
heard elsewhere, and I will favour my readers with it:
Yon,” said the reverend gentleman, “who dwell in this
place, have yourselves to thank for your position, and you
are almost sure to go to hell. There is no heaven for you.
I have known too many of yon to believe in reformation.
Condemnation, or, at tho best, purgatory is your doom.
And, as for you,”—pointing upwards to where the
females sit—” week after week, month after month, I
see many of yon in and ont, and when you como to con-
fession you tell mo a parcel of lies. For you there is a
worse hell than for them, and, wore it in my power, I
would send you there at once!” Hot, wasn’t it?
We had a treat when Dr. Ellis, one Sunday,
gave ns a brief sermon. Pity that such are
not given of tenor. That would, at any rate, waken peo-
ple up to the recognition of the fact that there actually
is a “ hereafter.”
Fol’owing is a list of the trophies offered to tho
Warwick Cricket Club for the present season :—Mr. P.
B. Walker, president, trophies valued £lO 10s—Best
average batsman, l«t eleven, £4 4s; best average
bowler, Ist eleven, £4 4s; best average batsman in any
eleven of members joining this season. £2 2s; two-
thirds of matches to be played in. Mr. Charles Davis,
vice-president, a Waltham watch far the member
making tbe largest number of runs during the season.
Mr. J. Rollick, £5 5s trophy for tbe batsman making tho
highest average in the club in any eleven.
The Auckland Stud Company’s last importa-
tions from England have been landed at Auckland.
They consist of Rosette, by Lord Lyon from Rouge
Rose, dam of Band Or (winner of the Derby of 1880);
Atlantis, by Thormanby (winner of the Darby of 1860)
out of Hurricane (dam of Atlantic, winner of the Two
Thousand Guineas of 1874); Madcap, by Trumpeter
(sire of Mr. Stead’s mare, Miss Laura) out of a daughter
of Young Melbourne; Bergere (dam of Beauchamp II),
by Saunterer, out of Lass o’ Gow.ie, by Dundee.
Atlantis has a chestnut colt foal by Bond Or’s sire,
Doncaster, and Rosette has a bay filly by Scottish
Chief.
Tho ground "committee of the Association
Ground have decided to give two trophies of the value
of £5 5j each for tho highest batting and best bowling
averages obtained by players in tho Club winning the
Nat Thompson Cup; the batsman to take part, and
tho bowler to bowl in at least half the matches. This
is very good of the ground committee, but they must
I not bo confounded with the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
[ fion, which is supposed to be the highest tribunal for
cricket in the colony, and which has been singularly slow
to recognize the importance of tho junior club matches
as affecting the improvement of colonial cricket, and
which has also neglected many other matters of cricket-
ing interest outside its particular functions. The
delegates poem to serve (and very weakly) the interests
of their respective clubs instead of cricket in general.
The new Sportsman Challenge Cup, the races
for which wore flxid for September 24 and 26, will be
of the value of 20D guineas. Appended is a brief de-
soriptiqn of the cup:—The new championship trophy
consists of a very graceful two-handled vase, parcel
with allegorical and nautical subject* introduced
in its competition. Tbe handles, of leafy form, nartlv
hide the reclining figures of a mermaid and Triton
holding wreaths. Tho body of the cup, which is sup-
ported by swans, is ornamented with an oxydiaed has
relief of an exciting straggle in a closely contested
match, while surrounding this picture are shields for
the names of the winners. At the base are seen two
all ego leal figures with their distinctive attributes, and
the whole is surmounted by a group, in which a per-
feotly chased and modelled female figure is psominent.


Tobacconists
*
TIN TAG!
TIN T I
Caution to Storeke<
ANYONE selling Tobacco with ai
other than those bearing onr b
“ CONQUERER ” or "YANKE
is infringing our rights, and will be
by Law.
We ore obliged to give this notice,
facturer has been sending out one of
of Tobacco with a Bound Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED
DiXSON AND S(
155 YOEK STEEI
TOBACCO SHOE
Note the Above.
J.EVE
TOOACCON
JAMES E y
No. 149 KING SI
(Opposite Theatre Eoyal Stal
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and ambe
149 KING STKEE
Money.
■JJNION LOAN AND DISCOT
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STEI
3 doors from A. Hordern I
Hours —9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PBJ
security, payable by instalments, as
£lO by weekly instalments of
15
20
25
30
50 ... «
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTIC
To borrowers not able to transact
day, the offices will be open Monday
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, i
3 doors from A. Hordern
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AI
PROPRIETORS
MONEY LENT on mortgage of
Hotels, fco.
JIALLON’S PRIZE AI
J. T. FALLON’S in asking pul
WINES, and to the awards gaint
intimate that he holds very large st
and the public may rely upon gett:
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot
91 PITT STREET, SI
Vineyard ;
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY,
NEW SOUTH WA
These Wines were awarded first-c
following Exhibitions
London International ...
Paris „
Vienna
Philadelphia _
Also at the various Intercolonial
toria New South Wales, Qceens
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLAi
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBIT
WHITE.
Reisling Aucarot I Shin
Vcrdeilho Brown Muscat Carb
Tokay I Burg
Champagne, Medium Dry. Ci
i
K
I
10
The city ice company,
ADDITION to their WORKS
Manufacture upwards of TEN TON
are prepared to Supply the LUXU
PRO ACHING SUMMER, at a lov
For prices, &c..
Apply to
3 WYNYARD STRI
OB TO VARIC
B
OBEET BUTCE
(Late William Lot
WINE AND SPIRIT ME!
634 GEORGE STRE
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Country Orders Receive Proi
and
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
HEBB L E W
416 GEORGE STRE
T
HE A U S T ]
“HOME" SHUT!
AMERICAN LOCKS'!
SEWING MAC]
express
s
s
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, So.
B
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALT. THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockbum’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
The compagnoni catering company
OF PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing' to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior " Aloook ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
(Jity (Catering (Jompany,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen,
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
HA S. R. gl MIT H.
MANAGER.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STORE KEEPS
MERCHANTS.
yirgoe, sonTand (
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BI
ORN£
OR
Bill iSJii
AND
It is of the utmost importance th
bottle should be carefully compared
are being imported into New Sou
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevera
LORNB HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of LC
WHISKY.
YIRGOE* SON,IND (
AGENTS.
MARTIN A
AUSTRALIAN WINE MI
AND BEER BOTT
105 PITT STREE
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES i
Prices from 12s to 42s p<
ALBUEY WINE
RED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUNTER RIVER W
Claret
Lambruscat
PORT MACQUARIE 1
Burgundy.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUAE
AND CASE.
The Celebrated
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
The PußtsiSiiMUiANi
The Bama of M. MOSS & 00*
I> on every Genuine Bottle.
IT isnot the clearness or conditk
Ale that preserves this branc
mution. Common bitter credo beer
bat no other brand has the same m
tor, the fulness on the palate, an
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C<
(ore cautioned against traders wni
extra profit represent the common
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, »
CO., Solo Agents,


"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is in[?]ted from members of the theatrical
profession.]
The Williamsons arrived in Sydney on Monday.
Bob Love’s Juvenile Minstrel Company, prin-
cipally recruited from those who made a successful
appearance in Wellington with Cary’s Liliputian
Pinafore Troupe, are performing at the Gaiety Theatre,
Christchurch By arrangement with J. C. Williamson,
Bent’s Minstrel Company produced Pin-a-4 (in black),
at Dunedin, N. Z Cary’s Opera Company had a most
successful second season in Christchurch. The troupe
are now at the Theatre Eoyal, Wellington, appearing in
“The Pirates” and “ Les Cloches.” New Zealand
critics can’t stand the latter opera as played by the
Company Bent and Bachelder’s “ Revived and Re-
organised Christy Minstrels” are drawing very good
houses at the Queen’s, Dunedin, N.Z. The troupe
consists of Charles and William Hugo, Edwin Rowley,
Beaumont Read, C. S. Fredericks, Ball, Miss Grace
Lament, and orchestra, with Eugene Sylvester as
leader, and the proprietors. The company open at
Christchurch about 20th September Master Parlato,
late of M'Lean’s Troubadours, had a benefit at Auck-
land Louise Pomeroy’s N.Z. tour, so far, has been
an immense success financially. At her “ben” in
Denedin, the takings were over £140, the house being
packed. Louise and the company are now at the
Christchurch Theatre Royal, and the house is crowded
nightly. As at Dunedin, “ Antony and Cleopatra ” was
a big hit. The company next visit Wellington. Messrs.
Hamilton and Willis are endeavouring to arrange for a
second visit to Christchurch, the season to commence
about 1st January The new Opera House at Auck-
land (N. Z.), is now in course of erection Fred.
Marshall’s houses at Napier, only averaged £30 a night.
The two N ew Zealand towns that he visited wore not
kind to him. On the last Friday of his stay in Napier,
Marshall was so ill that a postponement of “Quilp”
was thought of. By a great effort, however, he went
through the part A company called the “ D’Ortelle
Tourists” lately appeared at Wairaparapa (N. Z )
W. H. Leake did poor “ biz ” at Napier (N. Z.) Mrs.
Walter Hill and her t wo daughters are in Melbourne.
They came from New Zealand in the same boat as Fred.
and Edmund Marshall Hoskins benefited at
Dunedin (N. Z.), with the Pomeroy Company, "The
School for Scandal ” being put up. There was £115 in
the house An Auckland paper says : —Amy Horton
(of Lyons’ Tourists) was a “ star" on the London music
hall stage some years ago. There she met her husband,
an officer in the Guards, who persuaded her to elope
with him, thereby mortally offending his relations.
The two then sailed for Australia, where the ex-
Guardsman, who had about £3000, tried sheep-farming.
Unfortunately the experiment proved disastrous, and
Miss Horton has bsen obliged to return to the stage,
her husband now acting as Lyons’ agent.
Amy wears when singing “ La-di-da-di-doo ” is her
husband's Guards’ one cut down The Mabel of Cary’s
“Pirates” Company, Mdlle. Murielle, had a “ben”
when the troupe last appearedat Christchurch, (N Z.)....
Dunedin (N.Z.) critics think Viola in “ Twelfth Night”
is Louise Pomeroy’s best character. ..George Musgrove
cautions N.Z. managers and actors against producing
operas for which he has the sole right of representing
or licensing Professor Simon, the phrenologist, drew
large crowds at the Gaiety, Christchurch, N.Z When
Cary’s Opera Co, were playing at Christchurch, a
“ ben.” was tendered to Miss Leaf. There was a large
house.......Alterations and improvemements have been
made in Theatre Eoyal, Christchurch, and several sets
new scenery painted Lotti Wilmott, according to
last accounts, was lecturing at Nelson, N.Z Ketten
visits Denmark, Norway, and Sweden “Zulu”
Thompson’s Diorama opens at Christchurch Theatre
Royal on Dec. 1st The Canterbury (N.Z.) Times is
informed on good authority, that Mr. Beatty, the pro-
prietor of the Theatre Eoyal there, has taken legal pro-
ceedings against Louise Pomeroy for breach of agree-
ment, through her agent, Mr. Hayman, in June last. It
is asserted that the Royal was definitely engaged by
telegram for Miss Pomeroy, but the latter altered her
arrangements, and did not come to Christchurch
Unless on actor or actress creates a good impression on
the first night in N.Z., “biz.” is sure to be wretched.
Billy Sweetman and Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Garner
arrived safely at ’Frisco Lydia Howarde and Co.
still continue doing the small towns of N.Z.. Crowded
audiences have been the rule, and the houses have been
eagerly bought up in advance by speculators, or heavy
guarantees given to secure re-appearances. This sounds
well for the treasury At last occounts, the troupe
were making for Napier Pollard’s Juvenile Co. after
their Wellington (N.Z.) season, proceeded to Nelson,
doing fairly; thence to Wanganui, where they fetched
crowded houses. At Napier, £450 was taken in six
nights. Dunedin is the next town to be visited, then
Christchurch, opening on Nov. 20th James Thynne
is now playing parts at the Brisbane Theatre under his
former partner and Co. The Co. is a lawyer. Jim’s
latest essay was Horatio. Poor Will Shakspeare does
get knocked about sometimes.......Fifteen years ago
Alice Dunning Lingard was plain (but pretty) Alice
Dunning, and a music-hall artiste, in England. We
remember seeing her in a Manchester music-hall, and
mighty ravishing she looked in tights, and dressed in
the garb of Folly. At that time, “Hubby” Lingard
was in the same profession Edith Adelle was again
very ill when the De Lias Co. were at Napier, N.Z
Simmons’s Opera Company, have, it appears, knocked
the Cooma-ites. They played “Our Boys” and
“ Pinafore.” We may remark, en passant, that it doesn’t
take much to knock the good people of Cooma
Lyons’s Tourists had a poor season at Auckland (N.Z.),
they however, played for three nights in the Academy,
and drew very fair houses. Amy Horton, who by-the-bye,
very much resembles one of the leaders of fashion on
the Thames, was, of course, the centre of attraction,
and she completely turned the head of a leading share-
holder, who was heard to say that he would have pro-
posed to the fair danseuse had she been in a state of sin-
gle blessedness Mr. Leake, has been drawing good
houses at Auckland lately, and the Observer considers
him an actor of considerable power in his own particu-
lar line. He opened there on 3rd. Oct.... Bent’s Minstrels
are doing fairly in Dunedin The D’Ortelle Tourists
have been playing in “ Ticket-of-leave Man” in Waira-
rapa The Pollards took £450 in six nights at Napier.
Professor Pepper struck good gold at Gympie
The Provincial Opera Bouffe Troupe is performing down
in the Southern districts; it consists of a lartre-sized
tent, two dogs, three horses, a clown, and a third villain
-—who is sometimes called the advance agent The
Auckland Observer says: “J. B. Steele is playing
Othello for Dewhurst at the Queen’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne. The critics remark a lack of dignity in his
conception.” This par is evidently the outcome of an
over-dose of “ Irish cold without.” The Wyburd
Brothers returned to Sydney last Wednesday, per s.s.
Hero, after a successful tour through New Zealand with
Lyons’s Tourists Harry Power is stage manager for
the Lydia Howarde Troupe, now travelling in New Zea-
land Drama first. Opera next, is the line of the
Williamsons for their coming season in Sydney Zulu
Thompson, showing in Tasmania The Mastodons
are at Adelaide and Newcastle. Clever people, those
Mastodons The’pantomine for the Melbourne Opera
House is “ Gulliver and his Travels.” Band-
mann’s Narcisse draws well at Melbourne
Benhamo and King’s Circus is at Queanbeyan Mr.
Dampier’s reason for putting on the burlesque of “ The
Corsican Brothers ” is a peculiar one. It
in London, Mr. Sims’s own extravaganza on the same
subject, entitled (rather stupidly, too. it would seem)
“The Corsican Brothers Babes in the Wood," followed
his play of “ Mother-in-Law,” and it was the wish of
the author that the same programme should be adhered
to in the colonies, notwithstanding that Mr. Dampier
was unable to purchase the Australian right of Mr.
Sims’s own burlesque. Mr. Dampier, haying now car-
ried out his promise, is, of course, at liberty to take
the extravaganza off when he pleases; but, as he him-
self states, anything not bordering upon the intensely
farcial and sublimely absurd, would, coming immedi-
ately after “ Mother-in-Law," with its screaming quips
and side-splitting sensations, have the effect of seeming
dull and common-place. It is not improbable, there-
fore. that “ The Corsican Brothers” will keep its place
in the bills now during the remainder of the run of
Mr. Sims’s comedy.
• # #
Arthur Sketchley played Falstaff in London not
long since Evan’s Music Hall, for over a hun-
dred years one of the most popular midnight sup-
per cellars in London, has, like Cremorne, the Argyle
Rooms, the Holborn Casino, and other resorts of
gentlemen engaged in “ sowing their wild oats,” been
swept away The great Macdermott (“We don’t
want to fight, but by Jingo if we do,” etc.) the other
day entertained three friends at luncheon at his private
residence in London, and hired a pianist to play during
the entertainment. About the middle of the feed,
Mac., who is very considerate, called his man-servant,
and addressing him in a tone of dignified authority, said,
“See that *he gentlemen of the band have all they
require.” Some of the guests nearly had a fit Sara
Bernhardt’s extravagance is notorious. She was
attracted by a costume in a London shop window,
entered, inspected fifteen different dresses, and unable
to decide, exclaimed to the astonished shopwoman, Je
les prendrai toutes, and the lot were sent home Dur-
ing the run of the “ Corsican Brothers,” at the Lyceum
Theatre, London, no fewer than 90 carpenters, 30 gas-
men, and 15 property men were permanently employed
in the mere task of arranging and conducting the
scenes. The handsome tableau curtain, made for this
occasion, and containing 1000 yards of crimson silk
velvet, cost £740 Sothern’s estate was sworn under
£I6OO, and he leaves his children £4OO a-piece. He
often made £6OO a week, but was very extravagant.
When he was making money fast, he simply sprinkled it
about like water. His house in Harley-street, his rooms
at the St. Pancras Hotel, his carriage, horses, and
hunters at Market Harboro’, all were simply perfect,
and this class of establishment makes a hole even in
£20,000a year “New Babylon” and “The World
(says the Era) seem likely to “go on for ever” under
the experienced and spirited direction of Messrs.
Holt and Wilmot Emily Soldeue has returned to
London The French comedian, Got, is credited with
having an income of £SOOO per annum Val Vose, the
ventriloquist, has returned to New York from London.
When the Soldene Company disbanded, it is alleged
that the artists celebrated the event by a jolly httle
scrimmage, in which the graceful Soldene was said to
have nearly had one of her dainty ears bitten off, and
her eyes were made to combine the azure of Heaven
with the hazel of earth, in an exceedingly picturesque
manner Mr. J. H. Haverly, the celebrated American
entrepreneur, whose Mastodon Minstrels were such a
I great success in London last year, has a troupe of
“Genuine Blacks” now performing at Her Majesty s
Theatre The latest report as to Sara Bernhardt is
that she elected to travel from Glasgow to Edinburgh
in a four-in-hand, instead of risking assassination by
journeying in the orthodox railway coach of Great
Britain. It would seem that Glasgow and Edinburgh
are the subjects of freaks upon the part of prominent
actresses. If we remember right, Fanny Kemble long
ago shocked all Scotland by hiring a special train,
when railroads were comparatively new, and travelling
on a Sunday night from Glasgow to Edinburgh. The
godly Scotch folks gave the i ailroad company a terrible
hauling over the coals for permitting the desecration
of the Sabbath, and Fanny had a “ full h0u5e.”...... Ihe
new sensational domestic drama, by Paul Merritt and
Augustus Harris, entitled “Youth,” produced at Drury
Lane Theatre, London, promises to be even a greater
success than “The World.” Mdlle. Franziui, the
bicicylist, is in London Fred Thorne notifies, in the
Era, his arrival in L0nd0n...... When he returned to his
seat in the theatre, and said he had just stepped out to
see someone, she gravely responded, “It must have
been the Evil One;” and when the young man asked
“ if she saw the cloven foot,” she turned up her pretty
nose and said, “ No, but I smell the clove in breath.
Sara Bernhardt’s recent tour in the English
provinces, wasn’t a big hit. Sal got ’em, indeed, at
Leeds, where one night she played to £800; but in some
of the other towns the spec, proved a black frost. At
the Edinburgh Theatre Eoyal great preparations were
made for bumper houses. However, as the lessee
charged extortionate prices for admission, and the
season of the “ gray metropolis ” was over, the expected
audiences didn’t turn up. The baud had been put
under the stage to make more stall-room, and when the
strains of the fiddles reached the top gallery, they were
so faint that the “gods,” as an offset, sang some of
Moody and Sankey’s most “rekerky” heder, and
wouldn’t give in until the play began. One of the
scenes showed Sara in bed on the stage. This shocked
the strait-laced “celestials.” who raised, tutti, a ‘ tut,
tut, tut,” which stopped the acting for some time. In
spite of all this, Sara became quite enamoured of the
Scots, and went in for wearing highland costume ( r a
kilt) and tartan stockings. On dit that she has also
erected half-a-dozen scratching posts in her demesnes in
p ar i s Lydia Thompson has met with a tnroat acci-
dent, which has spoiled her voice for the stage
Ristori has fully mastered the English language, and
is reidy to play Lady Macbeth Hartmann, the
Nihilist, is lecturing in New York on “Russia and
her Prospects.” Mrs. Sotheru, widow of “Lord
Dundreary” was very ill last July, and removed to Kew
for change of air Arthur Sketchley has been playing
Falstaff in London An autograph letter of Mozart
was sold in Paris the other day for £BO Gounod s
new oratorio is to be performed JEor the first time
in Birmingham.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
And so, on Saturday, we say good-bye, at any
rate for the present, to the Mu-grove Comic Opera
Company. They go away to Melbourne, where glory
waits them (and a lot of money, too, in all probability)
and we’ll see the twinkle of their satin toes no more.
The financial success of the company here would un-
doubtedly have been very great had it not been for Mr.
Mervin’s continued illness—his absence from the cast
of “Olivette ’’completely ruining the piece; since it
necessitated a sweeping alteration in the principal
male characters—excepting that of Mr. Harwood. Mr.
Musgrove’s company is a hard-working tronpe of per-
formers, but is weak in principals. (No, dear comp.,
we did not mean “ principles.") Never very strong,
the secession from the company of Mr. Hallewell, Miss
Maggie Liddle, and Miss Jessie Grey, has gone a long
way towards marring the completeness of the personnel;
and when we consider that Mr. Musgrove produces am-
bitious works, on a most ambitious scale, it will be
seen that serious shortcomings in the singing mean
little short of serious shortcomings in the receipts.
* * *
Mr. Mnagrovo (who, by the way, is socially a
capital fellow), whatever may have been the success of
the season from an artistic—that is to say,vocal—point of
view, is certainly deserving of the thanks of the Sydney
public for showing them something that they had never
Been before—and probably never dreamed of. The
“ Tambour Major” and “ Olivette” have been put upon
the stage (and we speak from experience) in a manner
that could be surpassed in few European theatres. He
has shown us numbers of pretty women, and shown us
plenty of them; he has given us a vivacious prima
donna in the person of Miss Laverne, two most artistic
low comedians in Messrs. Harwood and Wallace, a good
general average of others, and an unrivalled collection |
of supers. This galaxy of “ opera-buffers,” while it has
been much appreciated by the many, has been positively
idolised by the few. What the noble army of nightly
glnaters will do when Mr. Musgrove’s figurantes have
taken their legs to other climes. Heaven only knows.
There should lie a rise, anyhow, in the quotations next
month of half-crown razors and sixpenny clothes-lines;
and to importers of beetle-poison, our advice (feelingly
given) is to hold.
# # *
On Saturday night, Mr and Mrs. Williamson
wi'l open in a drama, new to the Sydney public, called
•• Eureka,” a notice of which will appear in due course;
and we understand that shortly we shall have " rina-
fore,” ” The Pirates.” “ Patience,” and Billee
Taylor,” introducing Miss Alice Eees, and destroying
our peace of mind by bringing again to the fore our
nice little Josephine, and that extraordinarily attractive
young lady, Mias Liddiard. So far as the drama is
concerned, the Williamsons are certain to draw a lot of
money; for Maggie Moore’s face is as indelibly en-
graved in the hearts of the Sydney men as “ Calais
was on that of the late (and terribly libelled) sanguinary
Mary; while the lovely phiz, of "J.C.,” with the
ladies, is—but any more of this might lead to compli-
cations. It is hardly needful for us to say that we
welcome back, with much pleasure, two clever people,
whose perfeimanee (innocent in every way) affords un-
liquidated delight to tuoh a large section of the general
p “ bUo - * * * *
The Montague-Turner Opera Company made
their rentree at the Opera House, on Monday night, and
succeeded in drawing a crowded house —the principals
being warmly received by an audience—to paraphrase
from that great creature, Mortimer (of whom we shall
eventually die) —of “high social distinction. We
have noticed the operas in their repertoire so often, that
we need say no more than that the various works have
been given through the week with the customary eclat,
and that Mr. and Mrs. Turner and Mr. Parley are in
better voice than ever. Should “ Lucrezia Borgia be
produced to-night (Thursday) it will be fully noticed m
oar next issue. One thing will go a little against it,
though. Miss Annis Montague’s face is such apersonin-
caUon of smiles and good-humour, that it will be rather
difficult for the audience to reconcile themselves to the
fact of her poisoning anyone. We intend to emulate
the example of the " Marchioness,” and make be-
lieve ** tremendously all the time we are in the theatre.
* * *
The Company is due in New Zealand shortly,
being under engagement to Mr. De Lias, but, we gather
that, notwithstanding that their printing, portraits,
etc., have been sent over by the Hero, it is by no
means certain they will go. Both Mr. Turner and Miss
Annis Montague have a very strong dislike to being
vaccinated, and, as without subjecting themselves to
this operation, they cannot set loot in Maonlaud, the
probability of their going, is, to say the least, extremely
doubtful. Wherever they go, and whatever they do.
however, Mr. Wilson La Couteur will still continue in
his capacity as business-manager to Mr. Turner; and a
more indefatigable gentleman it would certainly be
hard to find. His trouble, now, is to find a sweeter
word than “ Angel ” for Miss Annis; and a more dulcet
term than “ cherubim ” for the tuneful Charles.
* * * *
“ Mother-In-Law,” at the Gaiety, has drawn fine
houses all the week, and the burlesque (which has been
considerably cut down) goes now with a great amount
of fizz ; some local verses—and very shady stanzas, too
which are sung by Messrs. Emmet and Boothman,
fetching the “ gods ” to a large extent nightly.
* • *
Nothing is definitely settled as to the prospective
arrangements at the Gaiety ; but we understand that it
is not improbable Mr. Dampier will soon re-commence
his practice of appearing once a week (every Friday) in
the greatest (ff his impersonations—Hamlet. Mr. Dam-
pier has so many new plays that he r- ay be said to labour
under an emharras du choix. As however, what the
patrons of the Gaiety «eem to want is more of Dampier,
we suppose that he will wisely give himself that show
in the second production which he denied himself in
the first. „
* * . *
There is really nothing further to remark aboul
the acting of either the comedy or the burlesque, since
all now play so well together. So far as the former is
concerned, we reiterate the statement we made last
week, that it is one of the funniest pieces ever written;
and we advise those who follow us to drop into the
fairy bower in Castlereagh-street, and see it to borrow
an expression from dear old Mrs. Jarloy—“while there
is yet time.”
• * *
As we should probably get a doll thrown at us
if we forgot to give Lily and Eose a line, we may chroni-
cle the fact that, though at present resting, they are by
no xnea -s idle —since they, in company with the Walter
Eeynolds juvenile faction, improve each shining hour
by performing, daily, arrangements of their own of
“Macbeth” and “Pinafore" up on the verandah at
Bowden’s. The little ladies are, however, to have a
show shortly, on which occasion there will be rejoicing
amongst the Sydney children generally. If, on the first
night of their re-appeara«ce, yon should, dear readers,
mark a van full of highly intellectual youngsters in clean
linen collars, leather knickerbockers, and brass-toed
shoes, drive up to the doors of the Gaiety Theatre, you
will do well to distribute barley-sugar amongst them—
they will he our own.
* * * *
Mr. Fred. Maccabe brought his season to a close
at the School of Arts, with two crowded performances;
and he gave, on Monday, a champagne lunch to his
friends and the Press. Mr. Maccabe gives a “ recep-
tion ’’ performance to the critics and quidnuncs, at the
Melbourne Town Hall, on Saturday, and opens at the
St. George’s Hall, on Monday, for his regular season,
which is to extend over twelve weeks. Mr. Fred. His-
cecks well deserves the success which has attended his
venture—a success which has. so far, been quite un-
paralleled in the aunals of Australian theatricals. We
are afraid to print the amount which was taken at the
deors during the six weeks the two Freds, were at the
School of Arts here. If we wrote it down, people might
think we were exaggerating—and we don’t like exagger-
ation. Whenever we feel that we are verging that way,
we always put down our pen, and read a chapter of
Leviticus or Numbers. This puts us iu a proper frame
of mind immediately.
* * * *
Mr. Frank Cates’s benefit took place at the
Masonic Hall, on Monday night, and was a great
financial and artistic success. His rendering of Hood’s
“Dream of Eugene Aram” was greatly admired, and,
indeed, all his elocutionary efforts were received by
the audience with great favour. Mdlle. Charbonnet
played, as usual, magnificently, and Miss Cora Miller
and Mr. Harry Woods sang divinely—his aria from
“Un Bailo ” gaining for him quite an ovation. At the
conclusion ef the performance Mr. Cates addressed a
few graceful words to the audience, in which he stated
that it was his intention, after a seven weeks’ engage-
ment with Mr. Marshall, in Melbourne, to settle in
Sydney, where both he and Mrs. Cates had found so
many friends. We wish Frank all sorts of success
in Melbourne, and shall pray for him regularly until
the baby has cut his last teeth.
* * * *
Mr. Dewhurst is, we are sorry to see, not much
more of a success in Brisbane than he was in Sydney.
Of his “Eichelieu” the Brisbane Cockier thus
writes :—" His enunciation of the splendid language
put into the mouth of the great Cardinal was clear and
distinct, but he maintained at first a high declamatory
level which became rather monotonous at times, and
his conception of the character differs widely from that
usually formed.” Curiously enough, this opinion of
M r. Dewhurst’s stylo is almost identical with that ex-
pressed by us. when that gentleman made his first ap-
pearance in Sydney. The support which Mr. Dew-
hurst receives in Brisbane is, it seems, very indifferent.
The Julie de Mortemar was a “Miss Brandon,” who,
according to the Courier, made a very “ poor fist ’’ o£
it, indeed.
** * *
f ince Harry Simmons has made a bit of “ greed”
np Q aeaii bey an way, he is getting rather “high-
toned." He has “ Vivat Regina ” printed at the bottom
of his bills. Well, he was at Monaro, the other night,
and, when the curtain had come down on “ Pinafore,"
the audience, instead of dispersing, remained seated.
Harry had just began to peel off the Captain’s
“ banger” (fancy Simmons as the Captain ! how funny
it must be!) when he was called to the front by sounds
of feet-scraping, boo-hooing. and cat-calls. “ What’s
the matter, good people ?" he cried, appearing on the
scene, in his hurry, with only one eyebrow. “We want
the bloomin’ farce," yelled the audience. “ What
farce, confound you?” shrieked Harry. “ Wiwat
Begina," was the responsive chorus. It was a difficult
position, but Simmons was equal to it. He whispered
to the “ orchestra ” to strike up “ The Last Rose of
Summer," with original variations. Five minutes
later the spectators dispersed in confusion.
** * *
At Gawler (S.A.), recently, Mr. Krantz’s singing
class presented Mr. J. C. Williamson with an album, as
a mark of their appreciation of his kindly allowing them
to perform “Pinafore.” James replied that he had
always regarded Gawler as the paradise in which ho
should eventually end his days, and assured Mr. Krantz.
that he had never known the proudest day of his life
until then. He then wept so copiously on the shoulder
of the prettiest teacher, that he took all the stareh out
of her sailor-collar, and eventually tottered away over-
come with emotion, giving all to understand that he
was about to secure a roomy vault in the church-yard
** * *
We understand that during the last two months
Miss Eva Davenport has made most remarkable pro-
gress in her art, and that she practices and receives
instruction for eight hours during every day. To teach
such a fair and apt pupil should be (and probably is)
with her professor, “a labour of love.” If Miss Eva
should take a fancy at any time to study the mystic art
of journalism, and will drop us a post card, we will bo
on hand in a clean shirt collar in tramway time.
** * *
Just by way of a chatty par., we may mention
that Liddy’s Wangenheim Opera Company were billed
to appear in Dubbo on Oct. 13. They announce 25
artistes, and “a full chorus and orchestra of five.”
“ Pinafore.” " with all the original caste” (sic) is to
follow. We suppose, therefore, Mr. George Grassmith,
junior, will play Sir Joseph Porter.—By the way, we see
oy the Queensland papers that Profess-or Pepper is
about to show in Rockhampton, succeeding another
professor named Lorenski, who has been every evening
“ passing through his eye a solid bar of steel, 12 inches
long." He also does “ the Goblin waters of the River
Styx" (whatever they are),and gives the audience a good
time generally. We hope to greet Lorenski in Sydney
soon. His dart here would be to try and get the Gar-
den Palace from Parkes on sharing terms.
• • •
Those who have known and loved her will bo
grieved to hear that Miss Adelle was so ill when the Da
Lias comnany reached Napier that she had to be carried
ashore. This operation was successfully performed by
Captain Moloney, one of the officers saved at the wreck
of the Tararua. This item makes us feel awfully sorry
for Miss Adelle, but not a bit sorry for Captain
Moloney.—At Murrurundi recently the local something
states that a phantasmagoria! (sic) exhibition was given
on Monday evening last in St. Paul’s School-room by
Professor Carl—a deaf and dumb man—who visited
Murrurundi about eighteen months ago as a pyrotech-
nist. This is the kind of entertainment we have been
dreaming of for years. What is it ? An Italian opera
company, or a circus ?
** * *
On the 29th instant (Saturday week), “ Jo ”
will be produced at the Queen’s Theatre, with a lady
new to Sydney (but dear to us!) in the title-role. Sho
has written us upon delicate straw-coloured paper a
dainty epistle, in which occurs the following passage:—
“I think your remarks about the name Georgina
worthy of attention. It is not a good sounding or
good looking name in print; therefore, on due consider-
ation, I have resolved to act on your advice, —not
change it altogether, but simply reduce it to ‘ Georgia.’
Will you, therefore, please frame me a notice to tho
profession and managers, to the effect that from this
tine I, Georgina Smithson, will be known as Georgie
only.” We do this with pleasure—and more—with en-
thusiasm. If there is anything else we can oblige you
in, give it a name. Say but the word, and we will slop
round with a white-wash brush and a bucket of gruel,
and the magic name of “Georgie” shall gleam upon
every hoarding; whisper but lightly, and we pass the
rest of our lives ringing, with tho aid of a borrowed
dinner bell, your praises at street corners. Joking
apart, we trust Georgie will put in a prosperous month
—and we think she will.
** * *
Amongst the annonces of the Theatre Royal,
Brisbane, is this gem :
“ The following is the opinion of P. T. Barnum,
the greatest showman in the world, respecting
the capabilities of Mr. John Dewhurst, in the
characters of Othello and Hamlet: —
‘Southport, England,
‘ August 3, 1877.
‘ After having witnessed the acting of Mr. J.
Dewhurst, I do not hesitate to say, and I do
it most sincerely, that I believe him to bo as
good a delineator of Othello, Hamlet, and
any other of Shakespeare’s or other cha-
racters which he attempts, as any other actor
we have had in America, since Macroady. Any
American manager of responsibility and ‘ Vim ’
can make Mr. Dewhurst an immense success in
the United States, in my opinion.
‘P. T. Barhdm.”’
“That it should come to this!” Essence of horse-
sawdust, monkeys, mermaids, and monstrosities! pro-
tect us ! The drama shakes hands with a two-headed
calf! “ Horrible! most horrible!”
** * *
Maggie Knight has been playing in “ Quilp ” at
Napier (N.Z ). supporting Fred Marshall, and doubling
the roles of Little Nell and the Marchioness—no small
feat, by the way. The Napier paper writes of Maggie’s
performance as follows “ Miss Maggie Knight, as
Little Nell, gave the many touching passages in her
part with an air which was well in accord with tho
character she represented. She made up well, looking
pretty and neat, and imparting a sweet innocent style
to her part, charmingly in unison with the character.
She represented also the Marchioness; and it was sur-
prising to find her changing so rapidly from tho gentle
Little Nell to the dirty, though sprightly, servant girl.
The ease with which she made the change evidenced
considerable versatility, and well earned the applause
that was bevtowed upon her.” We don’t think so much
of Miss Knight’s versatility ourselves. Why, we know
lots of fellows who change with the extremest rapidity
“from their gentle little Nell to the dirty, though
sprightly, servant girl,” especially when gentle little
Nell is their lawful married wife.
» » ♦
Miss Knight talks of coming to Sydney next
March, when we trust we shall be able to write such
pretty things about her ourselves. Wo like to write
pretty things about pretty people; but it’s not very
often (unfortunately) we are able to do it. We are so
exceedingly married, and we can’t always bo explaining
that we knocked our eye against the door-knob,
** * *
Our friend, Grattan Riggs, has given Queens-
land best. He said he was afraid of getting rich too
soon, lest the shock of his sudden prosperity should
injuriously affect the health of his mother-in-law.
** * *
The local Dramatic Club at Narandera played
“ Glitter," the other night, up there, and we learn
from a column notice in the Nad an her a Argus that
“ Mr. Robinson, as waiter and Mr. Taylor, as butler,
took very well—the latter especially, and he should
have had a more important part to perform.” The
editor of this journal must evidently, at one stage of
his existence, have slept on the rug outside Alfred’s
door.
UN SANS CULOTTES.
We only have to close our eyes.
And what a crowd of faces rise.
Like cherubs in the air!
The faces of those near and far;
The faces of both “supe" and “star,”
All grouped, are floating there.
With nut-brown hair, and eyes of blue,
Bvhold the tuneful Montague;
And near her, it befalls,
We see Mephistophelian Farley,
And “ Little Nell,” and “Mrs. Jarley,”
And that slim tenor—“ Chawles.”
And gentle Maggie Moore, we see.
Her soft eye on her own “ J.C.
Beside him’s Miss Adere;
And “Walter” got up like a Pat—
Dudeen complete, and Lim’rick hat —
All smilingly gleams there.
And Dampier, too, who’s “ got ’em on,” —
A pretty kid each knee upon ;
And “ Kate,” garbed d la Phyllis,
Is handing Emmet lollies —who
Has just passed Alfred Boothman two,
For pretty Marian W illis.
Behold Teresa Horan—she
Iswhisp’riug “Howarth” gleefully.
Both hatching some wild trick ;
(They’re only “ kids,” as yet, and so.
Must have some latitude, you know,)
A trick on “ dear old Dick."
Laverne, too, whom a reg’ment loves.
Pulls on her sixteen-button gloves ;
And Sweeny, floating near,
Suggests to Harwood and O’Neill,
That, with a little pressing, he’ll
Feel almost like a " beer.”
The “ officers ” (with Keogh nigh)
For “ lovely Fred” all seem to sigh.
And Kelly just does this:
He waits till Dean’s not looking, and
He, with his alabaster hand.
Blows Sallie Forde a kiss.
Now, slowly as the eyelids raise.
At once fade all these “ pros." and fays :
And now that we have laugh’d.
We’ll take of claret one small sip.
Choose from the heap a virgin slip,
And then begin to “graft."


PEPPER AND SALT.
In theory we learn that married life is conducive
to regular habits, but. the theory seems to leak when it
reaches Maitland. For instance, there is a gentleman
there who. whilst single, was at his office at 9 a.m. and
2 p.m., with the punctuality of a 30-guinea Waltham
watch —or a Land’s office clerk on pay-day. This party
married, however, and now he toddles in at 10.30,11,
and oven 12 15; takes two hours and a half for dinner,
and occasionally forgets to come at all. Gentle reader,
what has caused this fearful change? “As if you
didn’t know.”
* ♦ •
There is a legal gentleman in Sydney who is, it
is confidently considered by his family, a virtuoso of no
mean ability. His name is well, no matter. Suffice
it to say that his cherub-like form constitutes one of
the chief glories of a certain police court. A little while
ago he invited a select circle of admirers to listen to
the first act of a new opera he had composed. He com-
menced th- overture, with the guests, wrapped in
attention, grouped about the piano. When he had got
about half through it, a knock was heard at the door,
and on being opened the form of the ransiclan’s hired
girl stood revealed. “What is it, Jane?" said her
master, sharply. “ Please, sir ” was the reply, “ the
lady from next door ’as sent in to say as she’s got an
’ead-aohe, and will you kindly give over a toonin' that
planner." The recital was then adjourned sine die.
* * *
The Newcastle Cave Adullam says that the
superintendent of the Lunatic Asylum there intends to
celebrate the visit, of the Ministry hy giving the inmates
a feed; and it adds, “ A step such as this is one in the
right direction.”
Wo cannot, for the life of us,
Determine now at all.
If this bit is ingenuous
Or meant ironical.
# * *
According to a recent cheerful return we find
that 40,021 loads of house refuse, 2630 loads of market
scrapings, and 40,000 dead animals of all descriptions,
from dead elephants down to dead editors, are dumped
down close to this city ; and yet we wonder why every
doctor sports a 2.40 trotter and an Abbott cut-under
buggy. If we could only supplement the odoriferous
heap above mentioned with about five and-twenty dead
aldermen, it would be the best thing ever happened
New South Wales since Captain Cook first landed.
The piece of music in last weeks T. & C. is
about as original as one of Alfred's own jokes.
The very firs': note in the bass, E, is wrong
it should be A, and tbe very last chord is one of the
most diabolical sounds we have ever heard since
Cooper and Bailey cartel off their steam piano. If
anv one doubts this, let him remember the piece is in
A natural, and then let him strike the chord B, C sharp,
E, and A. and then see if he doesn’t feel mean enough
to steal the lead off a pauper's coffi i Again there are
eight bars in the prelude, and five of these are wrong.
The symphony after each verse also contains eight
bars and here the'wo opening quavers in each of the
last four bars should be the two last in the preceding
ones, and the harmony in the last four would cause a
Quaker to smash the photo, of his most respected
mother-in-law. On our bended knees, we entreat
Alfred to lot alone music, and go back to his evening
portrait gallery. The Ambulance corps will call round
to-morrow; burn all the last edition, and thoroughly
disinfect the pre nkes.
# # #
Scene: Official boudoir. Properties-. Pella
Crnscan wares, and dados. Head of Department
(salary, £2OOO per annum), to sub-chief (salary, £1500):
• ■ Aw—lt appeahs to me that this department might be
worked much moah economically." Sub-chief: “ De-
cidedly; naoah economically.” Head of Department:
"It furthar appeahs to me that the onla course, there-
foah, to pursue, is to reduce our present expendituah.”
Sub-ohief: “Decidedly—rednee our present expendi-
tush.” Next day Timothy Flaherty (salary, £3 per
month), John Jones (salary ditto), and three office
boye, each earning 7s fid per week, are sacked; the
heads of the Department apply for a £5OO “rise," and
our bleeding country is once more sa-haved !
* * *
Last Sunday a certain suburban choir very
nicely sang Handel’s chorus from “Judas Maccabeus.”
“We never will bow down ” Our Evening Alfred
happened to he present at, the time and taking the per-
formance as a graceful tribute to his late Spartan con-
duct, versus Watson, thanked tbe choir, and remarked the
anthem “took well." Ho also offeie Ito put the loader's
phiz iu the NoOze, but that gentleman observed that
insanity ran in his family, and lie frequently murdered
people without a moment’s notice Alfred left, whist-
ling the " Kevolt Chorus ” from “ William Tell.”
* * *
The attention of the authorities is directed to
the state of the Crown-street tramcar waiting room.
Up to the present time, citizen Abbey’s fence has been
the only protection available; but during last week’s
thunderstorms a gentleman opposite kindly hung an
old sock on a pole, and thus afforded the only shelter
within half-a-mile of the terminus. If the authorities
oannot afford anything better, an empty boot trunk will
be hailed with frantic delight, and Ministers invited to
canter up and open it.
# * *
Now this is not a true bill. Once upon a time,
there was a Mining Minister appointed in the land of
Barataria, and the morning after his appointment he
received the following letter: —
sir, —It has been reported to me that the * Amal-
gamated Shicers* have struck the vein, and are now
tunnelling under the shaft of the ‘Co operative Jeremy
Diddlers.’ Swiudelum, Sharke, and Co. are naturally
much annoyed in consequence, and threaten immediate
legal proceedings. What steps am Ito take ?
Augustus Cheek hs, Head Warden.”
Being slightly fresh and flurried, the Mining Minister
at once seized a pen, and wrote as follows : —“ Give him
Llq. Strychnine ~ 80 mins.
-Svr. Aurant ~
Tine. Digit ... 4| „
Eerri Ehospho 3 „
Aqua pura, quantum guff.
Ter. in die—and if the inflammation does not abate, put
seven leeches under his right ear and amputate his
left log." The same week. Head Warden Cheekes was
carted off to a madhouse.
# * *
The Ecclesiastical Synod, now sitting, began
well. A choral service iu the morning, and a grand
banquet at St Paul’s in the evening. Fancy the
" original twelve” at a banquet; seven courses on the
menu ; Simon Barjona in the chair, proposing “ Success
to the trade,” and the “Young Nazarcans,” under
Pontius Davlinus, blasting out “For they are jolly
good fa—el—lows—and so say all of us.” Times are
changed—and we change with them.
* * *
Our readers may possibly remember “ Little
Mary had a Lamb,” but one Queensland young lady has
a cockroach which is equally interesting. This cock-
roach has been taught by his mistress to perform
several curious feats, including boating the tattoo ona
small drum, whilst the lady hangs an accompaniment
on the grand piano. All this is very aesthetically aw-
fully utter, but to our common place minds it seems
that if the time spent on the cockroach’s education had
been employed in cutting wood, or baking dampers, the
social welfare of Queensland would be just as far
advanced as it now is by the gymnastic feats of the
festive drummer. Personally, wherever we meet one of
the sprightly creatures, we tread on his head, and that
puts an end to all further correspondence.
• * «
He was a bad mark —a very bad mark. Hawkers,
fruit vendors, and even Bam Chunder, the Indian con-
diment seller, knew nim—to their sorrow; and now
he was hard up, he had a bilions headache, and he
wanted a “ reviver.” A happy thought strikes him;
and with a well-assumed look of perfect unconscious-
ness, he strolled down stairs to the canteen. “ A long
beer, please, sergeant.” The sergeant gazed in amaze-
ment, for it was two days after pay-day, but, catching
a glimpse of a threepenny-bit between the bad mark’s
finger and thumb, he quickly produced the poison.
The look of unconsciousness vanished, and was re-
placed by one of unmistakeable eagerness and relief ;
a hand was stretched forth and grasped the “long
sloever,” and mouth was opened, and the glass was re-
turned—empty. “ Put it down to my account,” ho
gasped in his struggles to regain his breath. “What 1”
roared the seraeant, and his noble brow grew black as
thunder, “where’s that threepenny-bit I saw in your
hand just now?” “ That? oh, that's not a three-
penny-bit, that's a Un-tag f” Slow music and a death
scene. m
Says the Albury Banner “ Turf Memo.— A
good many of the ‘ silks and satins’ of the turf are
now finding their way overland to Melbourne to take
part in the ensuing- Spring meeting of the V.E.C. On
Wednesday last Wheatear, Zulu, Primrose, and Spin-
ningdale arrived at Albury.” For the Banner’s
benefit we may remark that the terms “ silks and
satins” apply to jockeys (on account of their dress),
not to horses. We would excuse a mistake like this in
a Sydney daily, but not in a country weekly.
m * *
King Pharoah —the identical party who chased
the Israelites across the Red Sea—has just been un-
earthed and captured a few miles from Thebes. It’s
the Hebrews’ turn now; and if any of them are of a
revengeful spirit they can slip over to Thebes and cave
in the old “ nigger driver’s” head, or pull him up to the
District Court for wages due to their deceased parents.
By the way, this party Pharoah was a tip-top master
builder, and some of his Town Halls are staunch and
sound to the present day, and as firm as the Australian
price of mutton. How would it pay to trade some of
our contractors off for the gifted mummy ?
“Ah Poo is training racehorses at New Ply-
mouth, New Zealand.” And by the time he has had
one season’s experience he will be able to sign himself
Ah Fool. This is at the heathen.
• * *
Stratford-on-Avon could once boast of a great
dramatist, and now Narandera can do the same.
Unfortunately, however, the latter’s inspirations are
not up to his respirations, and his aspirations are there-
fore failures.
» • *
A few weeks ago, Mr. J. V. Dalgarno, of the
Telegraph Department, attended a scientific conver-
sazione at the University, and during the evening he
introduced a specimen of Faure’s apparatus for the
storage of electricity. A certain class of persons will
always persist in rushing in where a more exalted class
fear to tread; and, of course, the Herald, next day,
undertook to explain the whole affair—and certainly
did so in a style that would have very much surprised
M. Fanre himself. Said the Herald’s scribe, “The
battery consisted of two strips of lead 18 feet square dipped
in a solution of sulphuric acid.” Now, if anyone will
figure out for himself what “two strips of lead 18 feet
square ” are like, he will at once discover that this
battery must have been about four times the size of the
University Hall itself; and. unless Mr. Dalgarno is a
I spirit medium, or a pupil of Professor Haselmayer, it is
hard to see how he got that pile of lead inside the
building. Furthermore, we are surprised this gentle-
man couldn’t see that it would have been far easier on
his return to town to have removed the University, and
let old Faure’s fixings dump themselves down in the
paddocks oat at Newtown.
* * *
The same afternoon, however, the little Echo
endeavoured to “teach its granny to suck eggs,” and
carefully informed its 250,000 readers that the
Herald’s account of the fight was totally
wrong, and the strips of lead in question were
merely “18 feet long and 18 inches square." It
is scarcely necessary to mention that the real size of
the plates was 18 feet long and 18 inches wide, but we
venture to hope that when the Eoyal Society has
another “ shivoo ” they will limit their refreshments to
conversation lozenges and picnic ginger-beer. In vino
veritas is all rot.
He’d been down the harbour to a picnic, and he
was feeling 'his way along Clarence-street, in a dread-
fully dissolute condition. His hat was jammed flat
down on his head, he had kicked off the heel of his left
boot, and a dog which he had frightened had worri* d
one of the tails off his coat. At last, while staggering
blindly on, he tumbled down the steps leading to a
doorway, and lay for a time unconscious. After a
while, however, he picked himself up, and hoar»e l y
murmured, “ Sohandelus! I’ll (hie) write to the (hie)
Daily Telegraph.”
* * *
The Cumberland Mercury initiated some
sports at Parramatta, the other day, and we under-
stand that they were a great success. This is a good
thing, and we heartily congratulate the proprietary
upon their enterprise. Isn’t it a pity, though, that
the other Parramatta papers—the voluminous Times
and the brilliant Independent —do not combine with
Mr. Puller in his efforts in the athletic line, instead of
devoting the whole of "their time to midly slating him
and one another ? Here is a match, now, which would
create some stir : Parramatta Press v. Lunatic Asylum
—the precaution, of course, being taken to have the
costumes of the two elevens made startlingly distinct.
Once they got mixed together, in all probability the
wrong crowd would next day be running the papers.
The papers wouldn’t sutler, of course—but how about
the Asylum rations F
• * m
It is narrated of Jacky Dow—though it’s just
as likely to have been Julius Ciesar—that he engaged a
new chum as shepherd. The inexperienced one didn’t
seem to understand exactly how he was to keep the
2000 sheep all in sight at once, and he therefore asked
that important question. “Oh! As long as you can
see some of them, it will be all right,” was the reply,
•« they always stick together." In a day or two, the
overseer paid him a visit; he was in the hut, and two
or three unfortunate “jumbucks” were tethered near
by. When asked where the rest of the flock were,
the “shepherd from home” coolly replied, “You told
me as long as I could see some of them it was all right,
so I made sure work of a few of them, at any rate.”
That shepherd was on the wallaby early next morning.
At the Sceptre street Public Subject:
History—Georgian period. “And who, said the
teacher, alluding to the “first gentleman of Europe”
(as described by Mrs. Markham), “and who was che
best brought up man of the period.” First girl (eagerly),
“ Duke of Wellington." Second (doubtfully), “ Pitt ’’
Third (wildly), “Canute.” Ten minutes’ silence, during
which the teacher taps the book on her knees angrily.
Then small voice from the extreme bottom of the class
—“ Jonah, Miss." Teacher (in desperation), “Go np.”
Read it once more, and if you are not a Theatre Royal
“ gloater,” you’ll see the joke.
The Auckland Observer must be a very
simple paper. It says if has never heard of a black-
smith who doesn't work. We have. And, curiously
enough our son of Vulcan makes a thundering sight
more by doing nothing than he did when he was
sharpening the picks and mending the barrows of the
Corporation. Odd, isn’t it?
* * *
She was a truthful nursemaid, and she was
walking with the pretty children in the Domain. “Are )
those Mr. So-and-so’s children,” enquired a gentleman,
stopping suddenly; “if so, lam their uncle.” “Mrs.
So-and-so is their mother, sir,” was the demure reply.
And the gentleman passed on, deep in thought.
* * *
The champion mean man, is a certain disrnified
official at a Northern port. The Government cutter up
there being recently employed on a survey trip, this old
screw —who, by tho way, is a remarkably pious party
also —generously offered to supply the crew with fresh
meat, providing they stood the rest of the larder. This
was at once agreed to, hut the surveyors found that tho
fresh meat was not the Orange Killed Beef, hut Queens-
land killed goats, and they began to murmur, even (as
the skipper religiously observed) “as the Israelites did
of old in the Hebrew desert”—upon which, the boat-
swain lifting up his voice, replied; “Well, I don t
know what sort of grub the Israelites had served up for
them, but if it was a seven-year-old Billy-goat like this,
1 don’t wonder at their sitting down and beginning to
howl about it. ” In the above port goats are as thick on
land as alligators are in the water.
# * #
We hear that a second paper is to be started in
Bourke, entitled the Boubke Watchman. Since the
success of the Central Australian is, on the editor’s
own showing, maiuly due to his being ugly enough to
frighten an emu, we wonder what the boss of the new
paper will be like. If he is any better looking than tho
hon. member for the Upper Hunter, he had better
shift his two cases of L.P. to Tamworth, and start a
fourth paper under the editorship of Hanley Bennett.
• • •
The Cakcoar Mart says that she has received
from a “ respected subscriber.” one “ Bastions,” a letter
in which he alludes to The Bulletin in uncomplimen-
tary terms. We are grieved to hear this, as it has long
been the dream of our lives to be at peace with all men.
We should, however, feel the displeasure of “ Busticus”
the more keenly did we not recognise in that gentleman
a very frequent contributor to our dust-bin.
# # *
Here’s a sensation, and no mistake. In a
certain boarding house lives a musical and theatrical
critic, and in a room adjoining his there resides a
gentleman, the nature of whose avocation is such as to
frequently call him away into the country. Well, this
critical party (the boarding-house is at Jnmberoo, by
the way), resolved upon giviug a hop, and in order to
accommodate his guests, he borrowed the absent
lodger’s room for the occasion. The party was a groat
success, and the host and hostess, at ter the entertain-
ment was over, retired to rest, in the calm and blissful
consciousness of having benefited humanity. Day-
break came, and with the first golden shade upon the
heavens came the lodger. Entering his room hastily,
for he was very tired after a long journey, without
going to the trouble of lighting his lamp, he threw
himself upon the bed and—crash ! In another moment
he was rolling on the floor, with custard-glasses stick,
ing all over him, his eyes full of trifle, and a pound
and a quarter of tipsy cake adhering to the small of
his back. Eising, with an effort, and blindly making
towards where he considered the matches were, he
overturned a tripod table, containing a dozen public-
house tumblers; and in his frantic efforts to avoid
treading upon the pieces and laming himself forever,
he sent his elbow through theoheval glass, and kicking
over the ewer, smashed it into mosaic.
* * *
As we write this, he is lying plastered up in bed,
and.refembles a huge linen parcel, choke fall of noth-
ing but curses. Directly he can see out of his right
eye, and the skin is nearly on his back, and his ankle is
strong enough to walk on, he will bring the matter
before the courts. When the case comes on we will fee
the white-headtd old gentleman (alluded to in eulogistic
terms elsewhere) to give us one of his sparkling special
reports.
** * .
He was staying in the house ; had dined —well,
dined with his host; and he loved her. She was tho
pretty housemaid. He was very full of fruity port, and
he loved her The time was night, and heaven
and earth were silvered wi'h the radiance of the gleam-
ing moon. All had retired to bed, but him; and he sat
beneath the fig tree which sprung upwards against the
facade of the house, and pondered. He gazed on high,
and saw the moon; he gazed a little lower down, and
his eyes encountered —joy—her window. Yes; he re-
membered —the recollection came upon him like a flash
—he had seen her at it. He thought first of her, and
then his mind dwelt upon the fig-tree. A happy thought
seized him. He would go—and have a smoke aloft. So
ha mounted, leaving, in his ascent, portions of his gar.
ments and of the hark of his shins on every bough;
until at length he gained a precarious seat next to the
coveted casement. He drew a long breath, got ready
his knocking knuckle, and—the window was thrown np,
and disclosed the head and shoulders of his burly host.
“Hullo!” said the squatter. ‘‘A thousand pardons;
I came np here for a cool smoke.” “All right,” re-
joined his host; “ a pleasant trip down to you.” With
that the window was slapped down, and as the guest
painfully descended he could hear the squatter laughing
gruflly. The climbing gentleman was away next morn-
ing by the early coach, and be asserts to this
day, when he is chaffed about his adventure, that it was
most positively not the wrong window.
* # *
From the Parramatta Ferguson we extract
the following interesting social item Yesterday.
Mr. J. Baker, Government contractor, was enmeshed
by the Eev Mr. Spooner in the bonds of holy matrimony
to Miss McCulloch. The bride of whom Mr. Baker
has become the prond possessor is a sister-in-law to
Mr. M. Kinohela, the eminent civil engineer." “ The
eminent civil engineer ?” “ Kinohela ?” Let’s see !
That’s the man who built the Thames tunnel, wasn’t
it ? No, that was a groveller named Brunei. Of
course! designed the Great Eastern, and afterwards
constructed the Lisbon Aqueduct; had a lot to do
with the Erie railway, if we remember rightly, as well;
and put De Lesseps up to the scoup of the Panama
Canal. Bather hard on an eminent civil engineer, for
us not to recollect the monuments with which he has
absolutely strewn the universe. Now we wonder what
Mr. Kinohela has done to Fergy, that that eminent
journalist should roast him in the insidious way he has
chosen.
V.
A burnt moustache dreads the short cigar.
The latest “ ad.” : “ Butchers. —Wanted a
s'rong young man, who can be used for chopping and
filling sausages.”
Easter Eggs at St. Petersburg ; or how they
divide ’emThe Nihilists to Alexander the Third—
The shell. Alexander the Third to the Nihilists— The
yoke.
“ Burn the dog !” he said, “ I’ll settle his hash
for him when I go down there to see Kate, to-night.”
And he proceeded to saturate the seat of his pants
with strychnine.
“ This isn’t a menagerie,” sharply observed an
irascible deacon to man who was trying to force a
passage through the crowd at a church doorway.
“No, I presume not,” returned tho stranger, “or they-
wouldn’t leave any of tho animals to, blpck up tUa
entrance.”
CONGRATULATORY ODE
TO SIR J. G. LONG INNES ON HIS ELEVATION
TO THE BENCH.
There is a glow of splendour in the sky.
There is a glare along the coast at night;
The bonfire's lurid flame does leap on high,
The moon outvying with its lambent light.
Through all the land there is a joy serene.
And men and women drain the festive cup,
And they all crv, whilst dancing on the scene,
“ Here’s to Sir Jo, who has been hoisted up! ”
And who hut thee, illustrious knight! was fit
The splendid ermine of a judge to don ?
And who but thee will look so brave in it ?
Ah, we’ll be there when thou hast “ got ’em on 1”
Oh. master-mind, so crammed with legal lore!
To thy long life, the foaming draught we sup ;
We grovel in the dust thv feet before.
Now, great Sir Jo, thou hast been hoisted up.
NEMESIS!
A BOURKE BALLAD.
“ The impudence of tin-kettling can no further
go,” remarks the Bcmrke paper, ‘-as on the 16th instant
Mr. Grant, Police Magistrate, was married, and in the
evening a number of persons assembled close to his
residence, and treated his Worship to tea trays, and
trumpets. The police were present, but were powerless
to interfere under a recent decision of Mr. Grant’s, as the
performers confined their exertions to the vacant allot-
ment. The result was that the serenaders departed for
the Royal Hotel, where they regaled themselves at Mr.
Grant’s expense."
There was a droll P.M. at Bonrke,
Who did a funny piece of work;
He ruled one day it was the thing
For folks to go “ tinkettl-ing.”
He was, we may state in this rhyme,
A single P.M. at that time!
A few months later—Nemesis /
He met and loved a pretty miss ;
And—well, you know how long it takes! —
He wedded in a “ brace of shakes —
Yes, “ wedded’’—mark what mysteries lurk
Beneath that word I—got spliced in Bourlce,
The time was night, and many a star
Shone in the heavens near and far;
Yet it befell a gauzy cloud
The face of Cynthia did enshroud.
The hour of midnight struck, and then
A band of merry, motley men,
With saucepans armed, and many a tin.
Commenced a most outrageous din.
They banged and slamm’d and d d, until
The birds began to feel quite ill.
The bridegroom then wished it was not;
Against the law to shoot the lot;
And as he listened to each roar
He longed to wallow in their gore,
Pint that would hardly be the thing
He’d sanctioned that tin-kettling.
He looked upon the mob, and saw
The bobbies doing a “ guffaw
He’d marked his butcher give a grin,
Take off his shoe and belt a tin;
And wealthy townsmen madly did
Bang with their fists a saucepan lid.
Men whom he knew as sober chaps,
A big drum gave ferocious taps;
And some he’d seen "take round the plate”
Yell’d out like fiends infuriate.
Ha shut the shutters, and when done.
He kissed his wife and charged his gun.
But then he cried—" Oh, dreadful thing—
“ I’ve legalized tin-kettl-ing 1”
He saw his wife, pale as the dead;
The servants, crouching ’neath the bed;
He saw the torches, heard the noise—
The howls of men, the shrieks of hoys.
Then desperation gave him sense.
He cried out —“ Drink at my expense 1” —
And quickly all the vile hubbub
Was silenced in the nearest pub.
WHO ARE THEY?
Kv’ry morn he comes and dallies
With her near the Garden Palace.
She is fair, and he is stout;
Garters he wears when he’s out.
Skilfully her faee from all
Hides she with a parasol.
Who she is, wo cannot tell;
Who he is, we know full well.
If you’d know more, you curious elves—
Just come and find it out yourselves.
THE ROMANCE OF RINALDO.
(Adapied fbom a Balmain Tbasbdt.)
Einaldo loved a charming girl,
(Lot’s softly call her Jane);
And though she always cut him, ho
Did always ‘-come again.”
He was a draper, yet he had
The wrapt soul of a bard ;
And when he’d ape the poet, why
She got it by the yard.
He used to sing outside her house.
When her pa was in bed.
Oblivious of damaged ” spuds ”
That were heaved at his head.
One night he sang—“ Sweet flower, whose
Bright bloom will never die,” —
When, bang ! a very ancient egg
Came crashing in his eye.
He looked npat her window, and—
“ Oh, dearest one,” he spoke,
“ Say, am I to regard this as
A matrimonial yolk ?”
Once more he strummed the light guitar,
“ Einaldo,” then she cried,
“ Why can’t you shout some ginger-beer,
’Stead of that Sherrynade ?”
Then crash a turnip came, and hit
The youth upon the ’‘smeller j”
And it began to dawn on him—
She loved another feller.
PLAINTIVE STANZAS
ON GETTING ANOTHER TORN FROM MART OF CARCOAR.
Why wilt thou thus prolong the duel,
Aud plunge the dagger to the hilt ?
Wilt thou not smile, oh. Mary, cruel.
Until we are entirely “ kilt.”
We are but weak; in pity spare us ;
Upon our knees we’ll make amends!
Don’t with thy work-box scissors tear us—
Oh, dearest Mary ! let’s be friends.
If thou’lt, O Mary, treat us kindly.
We’ll read thy paper ev’ry line;
Believe its little pars, so blindly;
And. though we die, we’ll not repine.
Thy “ crochet” comments we’ll believe in;
About thy mining news we’ll rave;
And we’ll but ask thee, this world leaving.
To lay a rose upon our grave.
A SERVILE APOLOGY
To E. B. Woodhouse and Clarence Hannell, Esqs,
Illustrious men, whose phizes were
In last week’s rag depicted.
We do apologise, we swear.
For the pain wo inflicted.
For blackened was each “ speaking eye,’
And muggy each face, reader:
We cringe as we do sadly sigh
“ It was our new ‘ two-feeder.’ ”
Each face would, in its nat’ral state,
A Venus make a raver;
The artist did felicitate
Us, so did the engraver. •
You might have thought those brows so fair
Creations of a Ouida;
Yet awful mugs they did appear.
All thiough our new “two-feeder.
We’ve got it into running now ;
The engine we have cleaned it;
And clear will come each classic brow
Whenever we’ve machined it.
You’ll see the sparkle of the orb;
Of soft shades be a heeder;
No more will emanate a daub.
From our own sweet “two-feeder.**
INTAGLIO.
Lily-Bell.
ALF. H. L.
Hobart, 13th Oct., 1881.
Oh Lily-btll, dumb Lily-bell,
Thy downcast eyes are wet.
Thy pallid cheeks are wan and frail—
Oh Lily-bell, forget!
Thy beauty awes tho silent woods:
All wonderstruok they see.
And breathless whisper Heavenwards—
“ None else on earth like thee.”
All mute, and white, and fragile thou—
Oh Lily-bell, what can it be!
The tears that wash thy charms away
What anguish lets them free ?
0 Lily-hell, sad Lily-bell,
Thou once wert proud and high.
And Summer’s brightest, bluest heaven
Could never shame thine eye ;
Thy pallor marred the purest flake
That ever left the sky,
And every supple child of Spring
Would envy thee, and sigh :
Thy gaze seeks not the far, dim heaven—
Thine eyes are drooping, weeping yet—
Thy lips are soundless, lifeless still —
Oh Lily-bell forget, forget !


DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mudgee,
Singleton, Windsor, Ac.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. 0. HOLTEEMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms.
►
Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFCE,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JTUENEE ROBINSON and CO.,
• MAEKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, QEOEGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Frnit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LAEGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTEENS,
DIEECT from the MANUFACTUEEES.
FASAIONABijja
and
FIEST-CLASS GAEMENTS
TO OEDEE.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
.ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHBUNK
AND A PEEFECT FIT GUAEANTEED,
IHE NEW SOUTH WALES TAILORING
COMPANY.
WM. CHS. HARDING, in succeeding to the business
of Geo. L. Lineker, begs to inform the public that he
will carry on the same under the above name, and
hopes by strict attention to business, combined with
moderate charges, to retain and increase the patronage
so liberally bestowed on his predecessor.
W. C. H. also begs to state that he has secured the
services of the late proprietor, who is known as an ex-
perienced and stylish London CUTTEE, to take charge
of the Cutting Boom, and act as General Manager
during his absence on Country rounds.
JJ AVE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
E
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STEEET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, out, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
Nia
Cin KING STREET,
CP 4 Sydney (two doors
from George-st.,) and 23 Vic-
toria Arcade, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOEEST’S
Perfect fitting AMERICAN
CUP ’4.PEE PATTERNS.
Newest styles
from Paris and
every mail
New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOEEST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HAEEIS.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME~WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., put in different
sizes for Ladies and Child,
ren furnished with illustra
tions and directions for mak-
ing up. Sold at prices rang-
ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
f
'"'3
'J !l
1
kSf.
M
■«
%
iV XI
fm
hi
m
E 2
M‘ M I N N AND CO.,
AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Boles promptly rendered. Intercolonial, Shipping, and
Country Orders executed with despatch.
ft—-*
MANUFACTORY:
BON-ACCORD
WOEKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
• is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Eesidences, Churches, Stores, &c. • is
i ample, clean, ana durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is mucho'eaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
a U smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace •
im some cases almost ml. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas. ’
to made APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
FOE PULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
THE "PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BABBOW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TEESS
GUAEANTEEI).
WHISKEES AND MOUSTACHES
GUAEANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUAEANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Eetail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STEEET.
r O U R PRIZES.
PARIS, 1878.
SYDNEY, 188 0.
MELBOURNE, 1881.
BARFFS RUSTLESS PROCESS
ANTI CORRODOTUBES.
PRICES APPROXIMATELY SAME AS GALVANIZING.
Quotations given for every description of Ironwork and all re-
quirements for Railways, Wharfs, and Mining Companies.
Unlike Galvanizing, it affords a perfect protection to the Iron,
being, as claimed. Rustless and Incorrodible.
THE
RUSTLESS AND GENERAL
IRON CO.,
3 Queen’s Place, Cannon-Street,
LONDON, E.C.
ANTI-CORRODO (Barff’s) TUBES
& FITTINGS,
For Gas, Steam, and Water; also Black (not
treated) Galvanized and Enamelled
LAPWELDED BOILER TUBES.
Sole Agent for the Australian Colonies—
COWARD & TEMPLE,
19 Hunter-street, Sydney.
iIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they hare opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &c.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Fok VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
JJAVID M'CALL,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus.
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868,1870, 1873, and 1875,
T
HI Most PERFECT-FITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANNELL’S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
HOSIERS, AND MEN’IT'mERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
■
HSIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part o f
the CoKmy.
The Medical profession order Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence because it contains more nutritions and flesh-
forming elements than any other beveridge, and is
preferable to be very thick starchy cocoa ordinarily
sold. When you ask for Cadbury’s Cocoa Essence, be
sure that you get it, as storekeepers often push imi-
sationa for the sake of extra profit.—Anv.
Beheaded.
Tub Abba Gomart was a priest whose function itiWt¥
to administer the offices of the church at the gTiillotme -
He had led a stormy life in his youth, and he had a
daughter, a beautiful but wayward woman, long es-
tranged from him by the conduct that was her sinful
inheritance. _ , , ,
The person to whom the Abbe Gomart spohe most
about his wayward child was the executioner, with
whom he had struck up quite a friendship, and at whose
table he was a frequent guest. The headsmair s son and
successor, Charles Henri Sanson, was then in the lull
strength and exuberance of youth. His imagmation
was heated by the priest’s description of his daughter,
and he felt a burning wish to make the acquaintance or
a girl so beautiful and so invested with the cb»rm ot
romantic wilfulness. He learned from her father that
she lived in the Ene de Bae, The- rest was easy. He
was nob long in learning to know her by sight, and s-*m
became a well-known lounger about tie street in whiter
she lived. She, of course, noticed this, and while ho
one day stood pensively contemplating lies window, he*
maid accosted him, saying:
“My mistress has noticed, M. le ChevaEte, that yon
have been following her as if you wished ts'upeak with
her. She sends me to ask what it may be."'
“ That,” replied Sanson, slipping a gold piece into
the soubrette’s hand, “ I can tell only her.”
“ Mademoiselle can be seen,” replied the maicL- "She
is alone, and can receive whoever she wishes. Under
what name shall I announce M. le Chevalier ? ”
My name is of no importance, as your mistresf llas
never heard it. Still, as I have no reason to
you may announce the Chevalier de Longval.”
Thus, under the name of the ancestor who had first*
adopted the horrible trade to which he was destined
the disguised son of the executioner met the sweetheart i
who was to leave him to become the mistress of a i
king.
The liaison between the pair was a passionate and long
one, but it ended with Jeanne de Vaubernier tiring ot
her lover and seeking a new one. Up to the time they
parted she had no suspicion that he was other than a
young country gentleman of means, for he spent
lavishly the money earned by bis father in bis craft of
blood.
The years which rolled the French monarchy on to
its doom sped easily and swiftly with the executioner of
Paris. Jean Baptist Sanson, grown too old to wield his
sword, passed that legacy on to his son. The lover of
Jeanne Vaubernier became executioner in his turn.
The mistress who had abandoned him had become the
favourite of the king. .
Madame Dubarry ruled right royally while Louis XV.
lived. When the end came in the small-pox chamber at
Versailles she vanished into royal obscurity, with
millions squeezed from a famishing people to be given
her. She hod long forgotten her flame of the Eue de
Bae, and when she became Louis XV.’s favourite, r
Charles Henri Sanson had long ago last sight of her.
With the French revolution, to whose creation she
had contributed her share, the vengeance fate had in
store for her descended on the old mistress of heads-
man and monarch. Arrested by the revolutionists, she |
was brought to trial and promptly sentenced. The ;
treasures she had accumulated were confiscated, and i
she was handed over to the executioner.
That executioner was Charles Henri Sanson. The
hand which had once caressed her was destined to deal
her deathblow. It was destined, moreover, to record
her death. The story of It, translated from his diary,
we give below.
“ Frimaire 17. —Madame Dubarry was sentenced to
death last night and executed this morning. We ar-
rived at the Hall of Justice punctually at 9, but w*
had to wait, as the convict was with Citizen Denizot,
judge, and Citizen Eoyer, who were taking down her
confession. At ten o’clock Citizens Vandenvyver, who
were three in number—the father and two sons- - .all,
accomplices of Madame Dubarry, and Citizen Bonnax-
dot and Joseph Bruniot, forgers, were brought in.
While the above-named were being arraigned, Madame
Dubarry came in ; her legs could hardly carry her. It
was some twenty years since I had seen her, and I
could hardly have known her. Her features had be-
come coarse. When she saw me she shrieked, covered
her eyes with her bands and sank down on her knees,
saying : •Do not kill me ’ She rose to her feet again ;
• Where are the judges ?’ she exclaimed, * I have not
confessed everything ; I want to see them !’
“ One of my assistants approached and attempted to
cut her hair, but she offered resistance, and the other
assistants had great difficulty in binding her hands.
She at last submitted, but she cried as I never saw a
woman cry before. As many people crowded the quays
as when the queen and the Girondins were executed.
Many cries were raised, but her shrieks were louder
than any. She said: ‘Good people, free me! I am
innocent; I am of the people, good citizens. Do not
let them kill me 1 ’ No one moved, but men and women
hung their heads, and silence prevailed at last. I never
saw the people in a more merciful humour. Jacot’s
grimaces and taunts were of no avail. Dubarry was so
faint that my son had to support her. She often spoke to
me, begging for mercy. I was more moved than any
one, for this unfortunate woman reminded me of my
young days, of the time when I knew her, of her worthy
father. • • • When she saw the guillotine she
became excited, and struggled with my assistants, and
tried to bite them. She was very strong, and three
minutes elapsed before they could carry her up to the
platform. She was frightful to look at, and to the very
last minute she struggled.”
Next day was guillotined j ean Baptiste Nael, deputy
of Des Vesgos, outlawed. On the way to execution he
spoke of Madame Dubarry, and asked Sanson if the
knife had been well cleaned.
“It has,” replied the headsman, “ hut why do you
ask ?”
“ Because it would he disgraceful for the blood of a
Republican to mingle with that of such a prostitute.”
The headsman’s ex-mistress found a fitting epitaph
in the contemptuous words of her fellow-victim.
“ Closed, during stock-taking ” was the mot
perpetrated by the owner of a drapery establishment
which had been seized by the sheriff.
Krupp is crowded with orders for cannon from
the monaxchs of Europe, who meet frequently and
embrace each other. He has 18,000 men on his pay.
rolls.
He was a Maitland cad. and seeing a dashing
respectable girl passing, he to a friend, “ Her
mother used to wash for me.’* Said his friend, “I
know —she told me so; hut did it ever strike you how
they gave up that business.”
William Brown, miner, is supposed to have
drowned himself at Coonanna waterhole. Mount
Browne road. His overcoat was lound on the bank, in
a pocket of which was an envelope with his name in-
scribed, and on it was also written his determination
o do away with himself, his reason, as stated, being
that ho had lost all his money at the diggings and was
then destitute. His tracks led direct from the coat to
the waterhole.
Scene : Class-meeting at a church up the North-
ern line. Dramatis person®: Mr. Toadem (an Anglican
shepherd) and a small flock of ewe lambs. Mr. T. (to
servant girls): “Now, Mary, what do you think is the
best preparation for the after-life ? and you, Jane ? and
you, Alice? and”—turning to the fifteen-yearold
daughter ot a wealthy man—"what is your opinion.
Miss Dniseyfield? ’’ Miss D.: “That I am Susan
Daiseyfleld, if you please, Mr. Toadem.”
A rather interesting swimming! feat was per-
formed on the river Liane, at Boulogne, on Thursday,
August 18. Professor Henry Hoare, of TunbritTgo, a
well-known English swimmer, undertook to swim from
the Pont Marguet to the Pont de la Eue de la Lampe,
a not inconsiderable distance, with his hands and feet
tied. Much interest was centred in the performance,
owing to its novelty and danger, and both banks of the
river were thickly lined with spectators. Lieutenant
Tenlswood, ©f the 4th Battalion Eoyal Fusiliers, had
laid a wager of 500 f. that the swimmer would accom-
plish his task, and as the latter succeeded with so much
ease that he could have re-swum the distance, the
gallant lieutenant won his bet. Much wonder was
caused among the lookers-on at the ingenious manner
in which the swimmer propelled himself through the
water, and on arriving at the goal he was enthusiasti-
cally cheered. The hacker swam alongside Mr. Hoare
on his journey.


Public Compan:
T
HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with poi
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund,
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; W
Esq.; W. A. Long’, Esq.; Jei
Ksq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Waite:
General Managei
Vincent Wanostrocht (
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STB
City and Suburban Branches: Ha
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office: 18 King Williai
BRANCHES IN NEW SOU 1 :
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Ba
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condi
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulbu
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, ]
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, I
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, N
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Eocklej
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tei
Tirana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend,
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, Y
BRANCHES IN QUEEN
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mack
Eavenswood, Rockhampton, Stantl
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Coloni
the World general!
TTHE MERCANTILE BANI
X ESTABLISHED 18
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP P
Paid-up Capital.,
Reserve Fund...,
DIRECTORS;
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M,
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. CaircUEsq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King, M.L.(
AUDITORS
Jaa. Scroggie, Esq.
H. B. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARYs
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES :
887 Qeorgo-atreet Brickfield HI
LONDON BANKE:
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director—Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Alexandc
This Bank transacts all usual Ba:
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances max
other nroduce shipped to England f<
8
COTTISH
IMPERIAI
COMPANY.
CAPITAL
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEB
NIXON & CO
Chief Agents for N.S
7 BRIDGE STREET CH
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
CORNWALL FIRE AND A
ANCE COMPAN
CAPITAL, £IOO,C
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D A 1
Business Anuounci
S
ASHES GLAZED ON TI
NOTICE.
G. E. MUEPHY
Eegent House, 869 George-s 1
S
HOP FRONTS GLAZED
BEITISH PLATE G 3
B
G. E. MURPH?
Eegent House, 869 Goorge-S'
RITISH PLATE AND
WAREHOUSE.
G. F, MUEPEn
EegentlHouse, 869,George-s;
(APEEHANGINGS
Q. F. MUEPHT
Regent House, 869 George-s'
w
HITE LEAD, OILS, COL
Ac., &c.
Q, F. MUEPHY
Eegeut House, 869 George-s
(LATE GLASS. PL
GEORGE F. MUEP
Eegent House, 869 George-s
R.
A 1
Wholesale and Re
PRODUCE MER(
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
48 Qeorge-street West (late Pai
And
Darlinghurst Road, near W
Pure Cape Barley, Feed am
P. E. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine ani
778 and 780 GEORGE STEI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B. —Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay
r
HAS a; wid.e CeßOt
a,*
Business Announce
LLeqal.J
SHOETEE, FITZGEEALD,
SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREE'
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary I
EGAL.—Mr. T. M. £
SOLICITOR, has cor
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite 1
News Office.
LEGAL.-N.W. COOKE, So
3 Ground Floor, Wentworth i
ADDRESS : 16 Sir John Young’s
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
Q. AND S. PE
SAW MILLS AND TIME
16 Erskinb Sire
Every description of Foreign ax
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, !
MorldJuga. Cases, Turnery. Ac., aft
ETHUE COOP
WINE AND SPIRIT MI
CENTRAL STOR:
371 PITT STR
Between Liverpool and Bai
Country tters will receive our
[EON AND BEASS
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bols
Sheets, Blankets, Couni
Bolsters and Pillow
Mosquito Curtail
J. LAWLEI
MANUFACTURER AND
608 George-streo
CENTEAL FUENISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, anc
Come and inspect our large £
FURNITURE at lowest prices in t
WE FUEISH HOUSES oi
from £lO to £lOOO, at th
NI3HING ARCADE, Nos. 29, 3
street.
CENTEAL FUENISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, an
H. LEVY & CO. desire to call tl
public to their largo and magnifi<
Household FURNITURE, at pn
petition. Every article marked in j
carefully packed, and sent to all pa
ALAEGE ASSOETMENT
the best makers —Errand, I
time payment. CENTRAL TURN
Nos. 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
N OT
ICE OF E
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUFAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCR
and EARTHEN W 1
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVE
to
Chemists and Dru{
AUTION. —In our of
sudden changes of tempers
and sunshine often intermingled
it is no wonder that our child
relatives are so frequently take:
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Bot
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a 1
and perhaps death, by the use
doses For curing Consumptic
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Cro
of the Throat or Lungs, its snee
derful, as your druggist will
Syrup is now sold in every to
this continent. Sample bottle
regular size, 3s. Wholesale A
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into I
two years ago, where thousands <
—and one year in Sydney; and aom
of Rheumatism have been cured i
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long star
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear A<
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured b;
HEAD OFFICE
89 WATERLOO-ROAD, ]
and
107 CASTLEREAGH STREI
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALI
STREET, SYDNI
MANZANITA PEI
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented f
Thousands of people in Sydney h
have been cured of Biliousness, Ii
ness, Sick Headaches, and all com
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO E
and 107 CASTLEREAGH STE!
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro;
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLE
PITT STREET, SYI
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
FOR
indigest:
AND
STOMACH COMPLJ
They are also much recomnw
tive for Females, being safe, gent
their operation, leaving no dispos
and being free from any teudenc
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer-
F. E. SLOP
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMER
OXFORD STREET I
S. ABRAHAM’S FILLS
THE GREAT LIVER I
And successful substitute for C
Podophyllum, and all Noi
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Dison
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, i
take them.
Be careful not to get 1
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepares
J. S. A B R A
At the Laborato:
434 GEORGE STREET,
TVT> ATTTTVC’VIP


An interesting s
The quantity of Foreign Tobac
on in N.S.W. for the Half Year eu<
392,4271 b.
Of this quantity HIXSON & SON
paid on 180
All the remaining manufacturers,
cigar makers, and others 212
DIXSON & SONS’ BRA
“ Yankee Doodle," “ Conqueror,”
H.
A. ABB
BOOKSELLER AND SI
KING STREET,
(FIVE BOOKS FROM PITT SI
Every description of Plain and Fam
lowest possible pricef
WA TRIAL SOLIC
AGENT for Melbourne AGE ai
gYDNEY LIVE STOC
Having secured the services of M
LAND, well-known in Victoria and '
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to assur
all interested in the SALE of FAT or
and STATION PROPERTIES, thai
shall be directed to this branch of th
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite si
tical knowledge, attention, and st:
which have made my Wool and Prodi
a success, will entitle me to the con
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and
a week ; allowances made on all Sto
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales
a week, or when required on days of s
Further information if applied for.
J(
MASON BROTI
AWAROAIi
14 & 16 Sp:
Syd
Have always in S
to the TRAD]
SALE BUYER
IRONMONGER!
GENERA
GLASS,
A]
EAE T H E
WINES, BEERS
and g
BULK MEI
Agen
JOHN WALK
Old Highla
J. SORIN
Cog
J. T. G
Schnapps i
A. MELVII
Edinburg!
*B*
WALTHAM ENGLISH, ANDIGEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all
Plain figures—Low pri<
H. P A I
STEAM to MELBOURN:
MARYBOROUGH and RO(
The undersigned will despatch
(when practicable) as follows,
WHARF, foot of King-street:
OFFICES, 7 SPRING-g
FOR MELBODEI
HE A V
RECREATION AND PIC-NI
OF THE
LANE COVE RIV
Steamers leave Lime-street Whai
street, daily, as per Tin
THE LARGEST RECREATIOI
Sydney, with most beautiful Set
SWINGS, SEE-SAWS, CRICKET,
A SPLENDID PAVILION FOE
BAND MUSIC, and SPECIA
every Saturday and H
Admittance on above days, inolu
per Steamers, Is. 6d.; Children und
Admittance on other days. Is.; Chi
Tickets to bo shown at the Entrai
TEMPERANCE REFRESHMENT
supplied at moderate:
Special arrangements made for So
by applying to N. Jocbert, Lime-s
csrEvery endeavour will be made
to pleasure-seekers,—the sale of i
being strictly prohibited, and disord
persons expelled or punished.
KNOWLEDGE IS P(
LATIN, FRENCH, ANI
TAU G H
THROUGH CORRE3PC
by
DR. RODWAY, M.A.
Principal of uNiversi 1
191 WILLIAM ST
SYDNEY.
ItERMS, STRICTLY IN
(2) GUINEAS FEI
FOR EACti BUBJ
ROIdWAY also guarani
ikail, and pass, every country oandic
qTSIO
nFLA
A U K h- P
all ttoav
F.RS IM> i
m.
Rn
ROOT C Cj<
m N
*V*Au:
Ss^h®
iSSSH!!
.It \ 1
!l^=
AVa»
ewE.MWB
««•,
MM
mwu
BOHMMlwwiwuwi
&
’ssssß&ss^sgsm
mm
jSnwK
NW.VWV!
msSmSSi
CA
■ ; »/x Jwilm <ft\* ‘ 6 * r '
cuirtu.
w;
m
ALARMING SALE OF BOOT
NOW ON! NOW ON
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BO
510 GEORGE STREE
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT (
with those you have been payi
MAKE NO MIS r i
This is the only Genuine Sale, a ]
FOB ONE MONTH (
In the Assigned Estate of G. i
JEWELLERY TO THE AMOU
TN order to dispose of the above Stock, we have made up the
found very cheap, and consist of the follov
[registered.]
In the event of these goods not giving satisfaction, they can he exchang


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Guiteau used to tell fortunes in Texas.
Mr. Archibald Forbes may be expected in Aus-
tralia about April next.
A statue of the late W. S. Moorehouse is to be
erected at Christchurch, N.Z.
Dr. Dudley, one of the early settlers in Christ-
church, N.Z , died at Kaiapoi, aged 71 years.
Mr. Ormond, of New Zealand, M.H.R., owns
property which brings him in from £30,000 to £40,000
a year.
Don Carlos, driven out of France, is in Eng-
land, and is likely to reside at the Bridge of Allan,
Scotland.
Mr. Quick, M.L.A. of Victoria, has received
the degree of LL.B. (ad cundem) from the Sydney
University.
Mr. James Mills, managing director of the Union
S.S. Co., who is to visit Europe, was entertained at a
dinner before he left Dunedin, N.Z.
Bishop Bromby, of Tasmania, who is doing a
"fly round” in Europe just now, draws £l5OO a year
out of the Bischoff mine. That’s better than sermoniz-
ing, anyway.
A big Melbourne firm of wholesale tobacconists
has just lost £BOOO by embezzlement on the part of em-
ployes. The pair of people said to be implicated, have
apparently got away.
The celebrated pressman and explorer, Mr. H.
M. Stanley, is reported by late African advices as quite
recovered from what was at one time feared would
prove to be a fatal illness.
The costs of the Lamont will case will probably
amount to upwards of £4OOO. A small percentage this
on the total of £42,000 involved; but there is hope yet
for the gentlemen of the longr obe.
Mr. David Syme, of th ge, is to leave London
for Melbourne on the 26bb ustaut, if bo have not left
already last week, by the R ome. David is bringing out
w th him some new notions in journalism.
Mr. Alexander Munro, of Singleton, who re-
cently provided that town, at his own expense, with
costly gas works, now intimates his willingness to
assist, to the extent of £5OOO, the establishment of a
local tweed factory.
Mr. Cromarty, chief officer of the Wakatipu, will
remember the small-pox scare for some tin: e. Accord-
ing to the health officer at Wellington, Mr. Cromarty
shows good marks of vaccination from childhood. He
was re-vaccinated on 10th August in Wellington, N.Z.,
without result; again on 20th, ditto ; again on 30th, iu
Sydney, direct from the calf, but still in vain ; and on
6th Sept, once more in Wellington.
Mr. W. H. Odgers, for
many years Under-Secre-
tary of Victoria, died last
Friday, at Melbourne. He
was a very old Civil
servant.
Mr. F. R. Wilson,
secretary of the Victorian
Central Board of Health,
is to succeed the late Mr.
W. H. Odgers as Principal
Under-Socretary.
Dr. Jackson, of Mary-
borough, Vic., has com-
menced a libel action
against the local Standard,
iu connection with state-
ments mad o by that paper
concerning the doctor s
alleged relations with Miss
Hilder, whose sudden
death was surrounded by
so much mystery. The
Crown does not intend to
arraign Dr. Jackson for
manslaughter.
Charles M'Eyoy has
Setitioned for a divorce at
[elbonrne, in consequence
of Mrs. M’E.’s laxity in
regard to the seventh
commandment. It appears
that in 1873 he was well-off
as a squatter, being then
only 19 years' of age, and
married the respondent at
Hay, while drunk. She was
a barmaid and dancing-girl
in a hotel there. Ho states
that on becoming sober,
four days afterwards, he re-
fused to live with her.
The Lamont will case
(Melbourne) has at length
been decided. Deceased,
who had got mixed up
deeply with the Spiritual,
ists, had made a will,
leaving all his fortune,
amounting to, say £40,000,
to one Macgeorge, of Haw-
thorne, apart from a few
small legacies. Lament's
sisters tried to upset the
will, on the ground that
improper influence was
exercised by Macgeorge
over the testator. The
Supreme Court has decided
that the will is legal.
Sir George Lines was on Friday appointed to
the Judgeship rendered vacant by the resignation of
Mr Hargrave. The appointment was declined by Mr.
Wisdom, who prefers political life.
Captain Nelson Hector, recently promoted to the
command of the P. and O. Co.’s magnificent steamship
Carthage, was once a pupil iu St. John's College, Auck-
land, N.Z. He entered on his nautical career on board
Bishop Selwyn’s little schooner Undine.
A Victorian J.P. has just been called upon to
show cause why his name sflould not be removed from
the list. His Worship is a publican, and has been re-
cently fined on two charges of selling liquor at pro-
hibited hours, and on one charge of assault.
Mr. Harry P. Moatyn (“ Pegasus”) has become
proprietor of the License® Victuallers’ Gazette.
We trust his spec, will succeed ; and unless the compo.
tition of the Daily Telegraph proves too much for
the L. V. Gazette, we don’t see why it shouldn’t.
Mr. Gordon Bennett intends having the largest
steam yacht in the world, and is building one of 800
tons. The largest English steam-yacht is the Wanderer,
750 tons, now on a voyage round the world. Mr.
Stewart’s Amy is the next largest, she being 600 tons.
Mr. W. D. Burnett, manager of the Oriental
Bank at Murrumburrah, was killed on the 11th by a fall
from a buggy. The deceased, who was a young man of
considerable promise, was the only son of an old Aus-
tralian explorer, from whom the Burnett River derives
its name.
Mr. Thomas Scott, the pioneer of the vast sugar
industry of these colonies, died at Brisbane Water, on
the 17th. He was, doubtless, the oldest man in Aus-
tralia, having reached the extraordinary age of 105
years. Mr. Scott had been for some time in receipt of
a pension from the Government, in recognition of his
services.
Jules Bevant, Tichhorne’s missing valet, has
turned up in Buffalo, New York. He verifies the story
of the Californian claimant, and says he will give cor-
roborative testimony- He knows all tho marks Sir
Roger hid on his body, and can identify him at once.
He says he had good reasons for keeping quiet during
Orton’s trial.
Another win has been scored by Mr. Arthur
Cnbitt, the patron of all missing friends on this planet.
After a battle in chancery 9! over sixteen months be
has secured to a poor family in this certain
valuable property in England, which had been illegally
withheld from them. Arthur’s success in the matter of
these lost millions leads us confidently to hope that ho
will never enter Parliament.
Mrs. Annie Besant, Bradlaugh’a collahorateuse
in his social- science work, “ The Fruits of Philosophy,”
has passed in the first class at the preliminary exami-
nation for the decree of B. Sc., in the University of
London, her tutor being Dr. E. B. Aveling. Mrs.
Besant has also passed in the advanced classes in seven
subjects at South Kensington.
Mr. A. E. Windsor, who originally came out as
editor of the Argus, and turned his back on Free Trade
by going over to the Age, has left that paper. He
says—and he speaks truly—that he has obtained reform
for Victoria and requires rest. Mr. George Collins
Levey, C.M.G, &o. now directs the destinies of
the Liberal party in the Age office.
John Hennings, of Melbourne Theatre Eoyal
fame, has blossomed into poetry in the columns of
the Federal Australia:.. Our own poet, fired by this
fact, is trying, his hand at scene-painting, and has
already produced a “ view of the Grand Canal, Venice,”
which looks like a first-class earthquake, waltzing in a
boat-builder’s yard on a hot-wind day.
A Eussian poet, Sermantoff, was killed in a duel
in the Caucasus, 40 years ago, and every year since, his
friends have assembled at the grave and held memorial
service on the anniversary of the day. This has been
forbidden now, by one of the Eussian Ministers, on the
ground that death in a duel was equivalent to suicide.
The veto has caused universal indignation.
With reference to the alleged relics of Leich-
hardt’s equipment, Mr. Eichard Bennett, of Marribank,
near Warrnambool, claims to have packed Leichhardt’s
instruments for him, and that several of these, including
a telescope, wore presents to Leichhardt from himself.
Now, Skuthorpe affirmed that the telescope he found
was engraved as a presentation from the Government
o£ N.S.W.
Mr. William M. Crofton, lately chief clerk and
accountant of the Courier and Queenslander, has been
appointed business manager of the Daily Observer.
Mr. Crofton is well-known to most Queensland journa-
lists, and to several of the leading journalists of Sydney,
he having been for some fifteen years on the Brisbane
Courier, where he won the approbation of such able
managers as the late Hon. T. B. Stephens, and Qresley
Lukin.
General Airey, who died the other day, was
Quartermaster-General of the army in the Crimea, and
was generally blamed for the horrible sufferings of the
troops, owing to deficient land transport and lack of
necessary supplies. General Airey had, however, firm
friends at Court, and got over the public outcry. In
1876 he was ennobled, by the style of Baron Airey of
Killingworth, no one seeming to notice the grim satire
of the title.
Mr J. H. Hood, of Melbourne, wrote out the other
day a cheque for £42,000, and what is more, the
manager of the bank honoured it. Who says that the bar
is not a lucrative profession in Viotoria ? Mr, Hood, who
has now a capital Supreme Court practice, for a long
time devoted his attention to the County Court. He
is a son of the well-known chemist, and has reach®
his present position in the face of difficulties which no
One man in a thousand would have ever overcome.
It is not bad to be an eminent scientist. Pro-
fessor Huxley has recently been nominated as candidate
for the Linacre Professorship of Physiology, at Oxford,
to which office a salary of £BO9 per annum is attached.
Professor Huxley receives £7OO as Inspector of Salmon
Fisheries, £6oo' as Naturalist to the Geographical
Society, £2OO as Professor of Natural History to Insti-
tutions at South Kensington (supplemented by fees
last year to the amount of £2BB more), and £2OO as
Secretary to the Royal Society.
Speaking lately on the Irish Land Question, the
Duke of Argyll—Gott pless him [—remarked that he had
Irish blood in his veins, as his ancestors had come from
“ Quid Erin” some thousand years ago. His Grace ad-
mired the many great qualities of the Irish race, and it
was impossible not to extol and respect their domestic
virtue. Who’d have thought it, deah duke, that thou,
the M'Callum Mhor, art an Irishman! Let the next
canny Scot who intends to claim consanguinity with the
Milesian “ Greeks,” give ns timely notice of the fact,
and we’ll bob up serenely with something sparkling
from Aristophanes or Plato appropriate to the occasion.
Hanged if we don’t have a fling at the “ Klassiks," as
well as the D.T. and other papers.
A RECENT INCIDENT.
A blithe youth plucked a flower; its petals fair
Languishing long, at last their sweetness spent,
All artless, to his wilful pleasure lent;
Shedding faint scents like breaths of summer air.
Flecked with the sunlight—like the golden hair—
Anreole-like, that shrines some winsome face.
In dreams that poets’ gracofnl fancies trace—
Reposed in placi-l calm its beauties rare.
Only a dower! but blest with gift to grace
Some cheerless spot of earth, —some blank brief space
Hard by the haunts of men, by it made gay.
A'as ! that so our fairer living flowers
Unheeding hands, sans ruth, should cull from bowers
Guileless of harm, —and cast such, flowers away !
Sydney, October 17th, 1881. C. O’S.
It will, of course, be perfectly understood that
we now write apropos of—nothing at all. The late John
Donnellan Balfe, of Tasmania, was one of a number who
believed that the office of Attorney-General should be as
much a non-political post as that of our Crown-
Solicitor. Exclaimed Mr. Balfe, on one occasion in the
House, when it was proposed to refer to the Supreme
Court a disputed election question: “What! refer
such a question to men who have been dragged through
the defiled and polluted school of Tasmanian politics ? ”
By the way, it was the same Mr. Balfe who once
declared in the Tasmanian Assembly that “ if the Arch-
angel Michael came down from Heaven, and were
invested with irresponsible powers, or a monopoly of
any kind, he’d inevitably be corrupted.”
The constabulary force of New South Wales
possesses a poet, who —although not a Kendall —has
merit of no mean order. Mr, H. J. Hoare, now a
constable on duty at the General Post Office, served for
years on board her Majesty’s ships Clio, Dido, and
Pearl, during the visits of those boats to the West
Coast of Africa, Fiji, New Zealand, and Sydney. His
impressions of the various countries he saw —the
manners and customs of the inhabitants, more es-
pecially the natives —are all very graphically described
in rhyme. Mr. Hoare being, in addition to his poetic
capabilities, an amateur photographer, took various
views of the vessels while lying at anchor, the officers
and crews, and of many interesting scenes in the Fijis,
some of which would do credit to the best artists of
Sydney.
There was a little man, who, by Nature’s little plan,
Was possessed of a by no moans little head, head,
head; ....
If you want to know his rank, he was something in a
bank,
And his little Christian cognomen was Ted, Ted, Ted,
Now this little man was one who enjoyed a little fun,
At debating and orating was a dab, dab. dab ;
But that little Cupid god gave his heart a little prod.
And he never quite recovered from the stab, stab,
stab.' •
For a little maiden’s eye cost him many a little sigh.
So from bachelor's embarrassments ho fled, fled, fled;
And a week ago to-day, little Teddy went away.
And unto that little maiden he was wed, wed, wed.
Curious characters are to be found in the bush
of Australia. Many a broken-down swell and University
scholar finds his way to a shearer’s hut, wheels cattle
through the scrub, or shovels mullock on the diggings.
The Tichborne romance is not one whit stranger than
many of the careers daily worked out in this land—the
land that saw the Wagga butcher claim to bo a Hatnp*
shire baronet. One of these curious characters was
Francis M’Namara, otherwise “ Frank the Poet.” The
name will he familiar to many bnshmen. He was an
individual of first-class education, though scarcely of
unimpeachable morality. He was marvellously skilful
with the pen, and could imitate a cheque so exactly
that the drawer could hardly ever tell his own from the
copy. Indeed, it was to this fatal facility that the
colony was indebted for the honour of Frank’s pre-
sence ; for, in consequence of his having accidentally
written at the bottom of a cheque somebody else|a
name, it was thought advisable he should leave his
country, for his country’s good. So Frank was care-
fully deported to Australia, without having to pay the
large expense which a cabin passage would have en-
tailed. Opinions might differ as to his poetry, but ho
certainly possessed a remarkable faculty for stringing
together rhvme, as well as a quaint and lively imagina-
tion ; and in those days, when poeta were scarcer than
thoy are now, some of the old settlers regarded him as
at least equal to Shakespeare, and incomparably
superior to poor old Milton. A contemporary recently
published a piece of composition, said to have been in
Frank's own handwriting, entitled, “ A petition from
tho A. A. Co.’s flocks at Peel River, on behalf of the
Irish Bard.” It is something after tho stylo of “ Para-
dise Lost,” and if Milton had written it, it would no
doubt have created some stir. Tho exact object of the
petition is not clear, but it seams to have been against
putting tho “Irish Bard” to work. The sheep bleat
thus; —
“ For years on the Peel’s lawn we’ve grazed •
And leaped o’er many a hurdle;
To you our voices all are raised
Most noble Ebsworth, of Burrell.”
It's rather irregular, but perhaps they wore leaping
over hurdles at the time. Than they go on to toll how
well their shepherd looked after them, amusing himself
with music the while —a true Arcadian picture—
“ Whilst our Bard’s merry lay.
Joined with tho notes of the sweet thrush.
With melody filled tho air.
Birds to him flocked from every bush—
So sweet his carols were.
Our tender lambs with him would play,
And in his bosom lie.”
As the modern Orpheus wrote these lines himself, they
ought to be truthful, otherwise one might doubt whether
the extraordinarily docile lambs really did lie as de-
scribed, or whether it was the poet who lied, Tho sheep
close their petition in a pathetic climax :
“ Our cries from the hills shall resound
To the extremes of the Poles,
If our friend goes under ground
At Newcastle to wheel coals.”
Upon his arrival, Frank was assigned Jfco’tho A. A.
Co., but work and he never agreed: there was always a
coolness on Prank’s part. He followed station and
digging life for many years, never doing much, and
travelled a good deal. His last journey was the longest,
but it isn’t known which place he went to.
The University of Caen has just invested with
tho diploma of Letters and Rhetoric young Mdlle.
Durand, the first woman who has achieved that die-
tinction.
“ A woman in Philadelphia has been bound over
to answer to a charge of being a common scold, brought
against her by annoyed neighbours.” The person
living in Palmer-street, Woolloomooloo, who sent us
this extract, writes she has a neighbour whom she
would indict on a similar charge, but that she believes
the accused would get off on the plea of being not a
common but an uncommon scold.
IN COURT.
As Calcutta is the City of Palaces, so is Sydney
the City of Monuments. The stranger within our gates
can, in the course of half an hour’s stroll, feast his
entranced gaze upon the Hyde Park Asylum, the Mint,
the Supreme Court, and that magnificent pile familiarly
known as “ The Central." These buildings would all
seem to have been conceived by the same demoniac
draftsman, and, as specimens of primitive eccentricity
of design, they may be said to shed quite a peculiar
refulgence over the memory of the (now happily) dead-
and-gone architect. The Central Police Court, with
which wo have to do this week, is situated, as its name
explains, in the centre of the city. It is facing the
Town Hall on one side, and the Freeman’s Journal on
another, while it is in sufficient proximity to the mar.
kets to allow of such aromatic odours as arise from the
refuse garden stuff there to be borne continually into
the building upon the light wings of the sportive
breezes. Having its principal entrance from George,
street, the asseverations of prosecuting policemen are
not unfrequently drowned by the roar of traffic,
and magisterial words of wisdom are, on many occa-
sions, commingled with the hoarse anathema of the
exasperated 'busman.
* * •
To those who have travelled, the aspect of tho
Central Police Court, from the exterior, affords food
for much reflection, and for unlimited comparison.
Viewed from the North, it is like an Egyptian stable j
from the South, it resembles a Judaean tomb; from tho
East, it has a smack of an Algerine wash-house; and
from the West, it is tho presentment of a Moorish dead-
house. All these styles of architecture are embodied
in the structure; but, while it cannot lay claim to pos-
sessing the whole of the individual beauties of any one of
of the institutions we have named, we will cheerfully
accord the Central Police Court the distinction of
revelling in the dirt of the lot combined. Tho estab-
lishment is divided into two sections—the police court
proper, and watch-house. Tho former contains a room
for hearing summons cases, and one for the investiga-
tion of crime charges; and it would take a man with a
wondrously analytic mind to decide which of the two
courts was tho gloomier and the more evil-smelling.
The watch-house is one
large dungeon petitioned
off into a number of small
ones, in all of which the
peaceful bug flourishes,
and the industrious spider
weaves his gossamer web
in blissful security. Some
short while since, a num-
ber of practical municipal
jokers inveigled the Mayor,
when he was but newly
fledged, to go round and
condemn the whole oon«
cern. This his Worship
did with great cheerfulness
and alacrity, when it was
discovered that not even a
person in his municipal
majesty’s exalted position
has the right of causing tho
demolition of Government
property. So far as order-
ing the removal of the
building, Mr. Harris was
perfectly within his rights;
and so would even tho most
ordinary groveller. If,
therefore, any of our read-
ers find their time hang
heavily on their hands,
and are in want of a littlo
cheap and pleasant recrea-
tion, we advise them to
troop in one day and emu-
late the example of his
Worship. Wo willguaran.
tee that tho subsequent
consequences would not bo
one whit more serious.
m » •
Tho day upon which
we obtained the greater
part of the material neces-
sary for this sketch, we
were drawn to tho Police
Court by business. Since,
however, we had not had the misfortune to either
remonstrate with a policeman for using abusive language,
or to slay one of Alfred’s bards, the business was not of a
personal nature. It was shortly before 10 when we
made our entry into the courtyard, which is an en.
closure of forbidding aspect, separating the watch,
house and Police Court. The Police Magistrate’s horse
and buggy are kept in a stable here, so wo went (being
carious in respect of all the legal temple’s surround-
ings) to have a look at them. Our inspection lasted
three minutes, and we left with a heavy heart. It is iu
this Court yard, and in the dark and dirty passages of
tho Court, that the legal gentlemen and their mournful
clients transact most of their business. The manner
some of the Police Court practitioners have of taking in,
structions is singularly primitive. The attorney gets tho
client into a corner, and writes down his instructions
upon what looks like a curl-paper. Then after some
haggling about the too, which varies from “ 10 bob ” to
ono guinea, the man of latf jams his " brief ” into a
pocket with his lunch, matches, and tobacco, and strolls
away in search of a woman with a red shawl and a baby
—one of those ladies who are continually “having the
law agin their old man,” and who are, iu consequence,
a harvest to the distinguished advocates in question.
There are Police Court practitioners, and Police Court
practitioners. Some have swell offices, and do business
in the orthodox manner; others, however, are like Mr.
Solomon Pell, to be found “over the way,” and practice
their profession like sailors’ “ boarding-masters ”
through the medium of seedy runners. These latter
are to be seen daily moving, in the precincts of tho
Court, through the motley gathering of litigants,
loafers, and lorettes assembled there, canvassing for
cases, like photographers’ touts for customers. Com-
petition in law, as in drapery, is remarkably keen ; and,
therefore; it will not surprise our readers to hear that
many a man has been defended for a battered watch
(with the chain mysteriously missing) and “a large
bottle of English,” and many a loitering nymph has
been “got off” for two half-crowns and a coral neck-
lace. Of late, however. Police Court attorneys have
become a good deal more particular; so much bo,
indeed, that a man whose personal effects consisted of
ljUt a pair of second-hand sea-boots and a bag of flour.
BERRY ( loquitor): “How ever do you manage to keep that nag alive, ’Enery? Mine died long ago.”


would have a good deal ol trouble in securing a first-']
class advocate.
There are aa many types of Police Court lawyers
as there are squares in a patch-work quilt—and they
vary almost as much in pattern and in colour. Some
are alean, well shaven and spruce as to their attire;
Others unbathed, uncombed, and dressed in garments
which would make richer soup than the suit of a waiter
In a sixpenny restaurant. The high-toned ones drink
rarely, and then only with J.P.s; the rough-and tumble
boys discuss " dark brandy ” with hoarse-voiced police-
men in dark pub. parlours, and are ferocious free-
luaehers. They are all desperate smokers also ; and as
they invariably carry their strongly-coloured clay in
the same pocket as their legal documents, their four
square inches of brief smells like a public-house spit-
toon —in addition to which, we may remark, that a
confidential whisper from one of them is like the blast
from a boarding-house kitchen at dinner time.
• * ♦
The Crime Court at the Central is an apartment
which, though it would probably prove fascinating to a
ghoul, is by no means the kind of place which a man of
ordinary (esthetic tastes would care to do anything else
but die in. It is an ill-lighted, ill-looking dungeon,
strongly suggestive of mediaeval romances. No grisly
interior ever sketched by Mrs. Radcliffe or Monk
Lewis surpassed in grim appointments this charnel-
house of justice. The dais resembles a sepulchral pall;
the dock, a coffin with the lid off; the female pen, a rat
ridden pew in a haunted chnrch. T j the left is a narrow
slip devoted to those to whom soap and and water is a
weird and awful mystery; and running along the right
are some narrow and uncomfortable benches, devoted
to the use of that section of the decently attired public
who do not think their reputations for truth will be
affected by sitting next to a policeman. Running
parallel with these break-back forms, but nearer the
centre of the Court, is a narrow ledge faced by three
chairs, which are the luxurious quarters assigned to
the fourth estate. Seated there on the occasion o! our
visit were three gentleman—one who was old, and white-
haired, and bearded iika a pard; and two others, who
were young men, and who looked melancholy enough
to be poets, and seedy enough to be —reporters. It was
whispered to u* that for thirty long years the old gentle-
man had attended the Court on behalf of the S. M.
Herald, and it was with a feeling of admiration almost
amounting to awe that wo reverently gaaed upon the
mortal whose wondrously graphic narratives have, for
■0 long a period, held spell-bound a whole nation.
Only think of that I Thirty years listening to the
judgments of his tradesmen —to the sentences of
amateur Timothensea I What owlish wisdom he mnst
have heard uttered I What strange “decisions" he
mnst have chronicled! No wonder his hair is
white. He has suffered greatly in this world ;
1st us hope he will be rewarded in the next!
# # #
The Crime Court is in the charge of Sub-in-
spector M‘Kay, a gentleman whose naturally sunny
disposition has been clouded by a continual contem-
plation of chuckle-headed constables, an everlasting
examination of addlo-pated witnesses, and an incessant
repression of derisive feeling in the presence of muddle-
brained justices. Some of these magistrates are so
stolid, so self-opinionated, and yet so smng in their con-
ceit withal, that they would have tried the temper of Job,
even before that ill-used man got a single pustule. There
is quite an army of them, and, strange to say, they are
nearly all tradesmen. Thus, when there is a good
master on licensing days, yon can beckon one illustrious
magistrate aside, and tell him to call round at youi
house and take your measure for a pair of tweed pants
and a calico duster; you can angrily demand of another
worshipful justice why in brimstone he hastn't half-
soled and heeled the ** spring sides 11 that he promised
to send home last Tnesday; and yon may on the same
day order of the assembled Shallows from the floor of
the Court, a prescription to be made up, some photos,
to be printed, and a couple of pounds of fresh-made
putty. Their types vary from the serenely stolid to
the intensely bellicose ;—from the unlearned Goth to
the meagrely educated Geebung.
Wien the Court opens, the unperfumed enter
with a rash, and at once commence to survey, with
great interest, the touzled collection of prisoners in
the male dock, and the unkempt, woe-begone, drink-
sodden, and repulsive set of sister Evas, who are
blinking owlishly in that pen set apart for the ladies.
All the prisoners are jumbled together, regardless of
social position, or the nature of the crime for which
they have been arrested. Men who have committed
nameless and horrible offences are packed in the same
cell with the young man from the country, whose crime
consists of having taken “ a drop too much ;** men
arrested on maintenance warrants are herded with
burglars and pickpockets. 11ms it will be seen that
every man is afforded by the authorities an opportunity
of improving the shining hour, prior to the hearing of
his oases, by a chaste and an intellectuallnterchange of
ideas.
• • •
The Sammons Court differs but little from the
chamber of justice which we have just described, and
would not differ at all, only it is a s oup»{on cleaner,
and has no dock. The inspector generally to be found
here is that active and intelligent officer, whese evi-
dence in the Clontarf case created so much merriment
throughout tho country. Sub-inspector Johnson is an
officer who, we believe, is regarded with great favour
by bis superiors. This is, of course, quite sufficient
evidence as to his general merit I Long may he linger
to uphold tho cause of morality, and to advocate the
chaste' recreation of public picnics which tend alike to
elevate young people's minds and to increase the
population.
• * *
W« had a good long stay in the Summons Court,
because a ease in whioh we, as representatives of our
readers, were interested, lasted nearly the whole day.
We sat this case out for the purpose of being enabled
to lay before the public an airy picture of the way they
do things in this temple. It was not a pleasant task to
sit for hours in that mouldy old Court, listening to the
evidence as it slowly dribbled out from the witnesses,
and then having again to bear the infliction of it when
repeated in the heavy monotone of the deposition
clerk, but having a purpose to effect, we stayed, just as
“ With eyeballs heavy and red ”
we have tarried in the House, until the grey of dawn
struggled through the windows, listening to the hoarse
roar of M'Elhone, and the declamatory drivel of some
other demoniacal demagogue.
• • #
The case to which we have alluded is, as many
will have surmised, that in which Mr. L. M. Bayleas,
the lessee of the Gaiety Theatre, prosecuted Mr. James
South for assault. The particulars of the case have
been already given to the public by the elderly party
animadverted on elsewhere, and the lesser lights in the
seedy tweeds and cloudy collars; but no ade-
quate idea of the extraordinary nature of the proceed,
inga can be gathered from the peculiar {though brilliant)
efforts of the journalistic trio. We will thus devote
one or two pars, to the case, merely with the object of
infusing into the minds of our readers a proper respect
for the majesty of the law, and an admiration for the
dignified manner in which it is administered in a Sydney
Police Court,
* • #
Mr. Bayleas had secured the services of a young
legal gentleman with a pair of blue eyes, a halo-like
head of golden hair, a pink complexion and a brilliant
get of teeth. His Christian names were Eussell and
Llewelyn and Lloyd, and his surname was Jones—
which, by the way, rather spoilt it. Mr. Jones’s
practice being rather a patrician one, he had seldom
occasion to visit the Police Court, so therefore he was
rather heavily handicapped, inasmuch as his oppo-
nent was a very old stager in criminal jurisprudence,
and knew the idiosyncrasy of every magistrate who had
been on the Central Police Court roster for the last
fifteen years. Mr. Carroll (tor such is his name) is a
gentleman verging upon three score and ten years, yet
the vital spark appears to bom within him as flcerely
as it does in the breast of a yonng man of twenty when
he’s going with his girl to a picnic in a harbour steamer.
Mr. Bayless’s case was very simple, and practically
there was no defence whatever; but hardly had the
prosecutor commenced his evidence whan he was re-
quested by the defendant’s solicitor not to " lay on so
much jam.” Upon Mr. Jones taking except! nto this
interruption, Mr. Carroll said “ I’m here to do my
duty, and I won’t have that Yankee (the prosecutor)
piling up the agony.” At this the spectators laughed
loudly, and the bench (Messrs. Bidge, Nea’e, chairman,
and Withers—whose huckaback at 4JI. we can feel-
ingly recommend !) seemed evidently tickled. A little
later a tri-syllable from the plaintiff brought forth the
remark from Mr. Carroll that “we don’t come under
the Education Act,” upon which Mr. Jones, who was
warming to the fray, drily remarked, " A good job for
some of ns if we did,” whereat there was another
guffaw.
• « •
The cross-examination of Mr. Bayless was com-
menced by defendant’s attorney openly stating that ho
would take the starch out of that Yankee; and a little
while after this, be requested the plaintiff to inform him
what he meant by that ** grinning ?” On the conclusion
of the cross-examination —which, in sooth, was nothing
more than a series of objections by Mr. Jones, expostn-
tions by the Bench, and bursts of flory eloquence from
Mr. Carroll—Mr. Bayless had occasion to leave the
court, when the learned advocate on the other side
rose, and, in a tone of great indignation, protested
against this outrage on justice, and expressed his inten-
tion of having the prosecutor watched. This was the
signal for another row between the attorneys and the
bench, which lasted for about ten minutes, and which
ended by the magistrates intimating to the learned gen-
tlemen that if the dispute lasted much longer they
would adjourn the court.
* * *
Mr. Carroll’s speech was one “ yell ” from start
to finish. One sentence of it should live, even if, when
wars have waged and monarchs vanished, the rest of it
should be forgotten. “ Did not Mr. Bayless commit the
first assault,” said he, “ by refusing to allow the defend-
ant into the theatre ?’’ The learned gentleman’s
eloquence was evidently held in high esteem by the
habitues, since they applauded vigorously at intervals
and chuckled audibly daring the whole discourse. In
the end, Mr. South was fined 405.; and as we filed out of
court, we could not help thinking that the amount was
exceedingly trifling when it was taken into consideration
that James’s two pounds had afforded an intellectual
entertainment to so many persons, who, had not the
case drawn them thither, would have either been sleep-
ing in the Domain or playing pitch-and-toss in Sussex-
street right-o’-ways. In some countries Justice is
depicted as a pretty girl, with a bandage over her eyes
and a pair of lolly-scales dangling from her dexter
digits. In New South Wales we want something more
elevated than this. A picnic Bacchante, brandishing a
couple of beer-bottles or a negro minstrel “ corner-man”
doing a cellar-flap upon a law-book. Either idea is at
the disposal of the authorities—or both.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Carrie Godfrey is engaged for the Montague-
Tumer New Zealand tonr. Surely not (we contraltos.
Quel est ce mystere ?
A special programme, consisting of “ Bel-
phegor,” and an afterpiece—probably a comedietta by
Williams—will be produced at the Gaiety, on Saturday
night.
It is rnmonred that Mr. L. M. Bayless intends
proceeding to Europe shortly, in search of talent, and
that Mr. Dampier will carry on the theatre in his
absence.
Mr. Maccabe gave a nice little unostentatious
valedictory spread at the Metropolitan Hotel on Mon-
day, when he gathered round him twenty press people
and private friends.
We are requested to state that the celebrated
New Zealand dramatist, Mr. Something fitting, is at
present in Sydney, and that he has with him a trunk-
full of dramas. Managers can, therefore, be supplied
wholesale, retail, and for exportation.
Mr. Walter Reynolds’s “ Quid Erin ” has en-
joyed—and is enjoying—more popularity than any
piece which has, for a long time, been produced at the
Queen’s Theatre, not excepting “ Hamlet," with which
Mr. Shakespeare hardly achieved at the Queen’s the
success which his previous reputation as a play.wright
would have led one to anticipate. On some nights the
theatre has been uncomfortably packed, but there has
been, ever since the piece was put on, an attendance of
the public that speaks well for the amount of Walter’s
share. Walter Eeynolds has, if we mistake not, the
kind of application which begets success, and we shall
not be surprised to hear of him turning out far better
pieces than “ OnldErin" at some future time, since,
in this drama he has bestowed considerably more
pains on the mechanical, than on the literary part of
it. The acting is eminently satisfactory, and it is
gratifying to be able to testify that when the company
at the Queen’s have a good rousing melodrama to spread
themselves in, they can work np the agony, and bring
out the pathos, and fire off the pistols in a style which
would have warmed the heart of Mr. Vincent Crummies,
and make a play roll along as merrily as a hardwood
ball in a ten-pin alley.
The most excruciating novelty ever presented
in this colony is announced to appear on Monday next,
at the School of Arts, to wit, an orchestra playing
upon Chinese instruments, with songs and witticisms
which have convulsed the Brother of the Sun and the
Third Cousin of the Comet. The Celestial constellation
of star performers, 20 in number, consists of Oriental
philanthropists, who have no other object in view ex-
cept to improve the barbarous taste of the colonials by
showing what tort of music Confucius preferred, and
out of the goodness of their hearts they intend to dis-
tribute among their audiences a thousand pounds’ worth
of costly presents adapted to Frankish tastes, and
ranging from the domestic butter-cooler to the esthetic
diamond hoops.
SOCIAL.
Mrs. Eales, of Duokenfield, has organized an
amateur concert, to be held shortly in the spacious
ball-room, Duokenfield, in aid of St. James’s (C.E.)
Church, Morpeth.
* * *
The Bowen Hills Quadrille Party, at Brisbane,
wound up a very successful season with a semi-fancy
dress ball, lately. The costumes were very elegant.
* * *
After all expenses of tbe Manly wild flower show
were defrayed, a balance of £2OO was left, to go to the
fund for the enlargement of St. Matthew’s Church
* # *
Last week Mr. and Mrs. James Tysoe celebrated
their golden wedding day by a ball at St. Kiida Hotel,
Armidale. They are very old residents of the district,
and some of their great-grandchildren were present at
the festivities.
* * *
Mr. E. Combes, C.M.G., lectured on Friday
night at the School of Arts, Lithgow, on the Paris
Exhibition.
* * #
The chosen people shone with resplendent
radiance at a grand gathering on Wednesday, the occa-
sion being the wedding of one of the daughters of a
well-known citizen at the Elizabeth-streot Synagogue
Admission to the ceremony as well as to the subsequent
spread, was by ticket. The bride was Miss H. Kron, and
the bridegroom Mr. J. Hermann. The bride’s dress
was a charming array of rich white satin disguised
a covering of Hiniton lace and orange
blossom's, the effect of which was extremely pretty. The
seven bridesmaids were also brilliant in white lustre,
with trimmings of white satin and duchess lace.
Mrs. E, Kron wore a plum satin, with maltese
lace and brocade to match, Mrs. A. Hermann’s
dress was of peacock-blue satin and broohe The
ceremony was impressively performed, and the break-
fast was remarkable for every form of lavish display.
Mr. H. Hermann was best man, and the following were
bridesmaids —Misses E. Kron, F. De Saxe, G. Joseph,
Amy Fredman, N. De Saxe, J. Joseph, —De Qron. The
tempestuous weather which prevailed interfered with
the attendance at the ceremony, which was impressively
conducted by the worthy and most respected Eabbi
Davis.
A fancy dress ball was recently held at Christ-
church (N.Z.), at which Mr. E. W. Cary and his
“ Pirates of Penzance" Company attended.
» # *
A Maori wedding took place in an Otago (N.Z.)
district, the other week, the parties united being
Henare Korako Karctai, a chief of the Karetai family,
with Ani Hamnera, a daughter of a native of high rank.
The ceremony in the church was performed in Maori
by the Eev. W. Eonaldson. The bride entered tbe
church leaning on the arm of her uncle, Taare Wetere
te Kahn, and attended by her bridesmaids. Tho bride
was attired in a very handsome white silk dress, richly
trimmed with fringe and orange blossoms, and was
completely enveloped in a white tulle veil, while a
wreath of orange blossoms was conspicuous in her
dark ringlets. The bridesmaids (who were relations of
the bridegroom) were dressed in white, trimmed with
cerise. At tbe conclusion of the service the grooms-
man kissed the bride, and one of the bridesmaids
attempted to kiss the bridegroom, but her courage
seemed to fail her. A banquet and dancing followed,
tbe minister presiding at the former.
• # •
A fashionable wedding took place in the School
of Arts, Wyrallah, Richmond Eiver, on Thursday, 13th
inst. The bride was dressed in white cashmere, elabor-
ately trimmed with orange blossoms and satin. Eight
bridesmaids ; the first a very pretty girl, who is said to
be already booked to a Sydney banker.
m It *
It was doubtless owing to the threatening aspect
of the sky that so few handsome dresses were to bo
seen at the University sports last Wednesday week.
One of the few was a rich fawn-coloured satin,
trimmed with brocade of the same colour, hat and
feathers to match. There was a black satin, made
quite plain, and without any trimmings.with the excep-
tion of a little white lace on the sleeves and neck.
This was very effective, for satin, being of itself such a
rich material, requires no embellishments to set it off,
especially if the wearer possesses a good figure, as in
this case the lady assuredly did. A black silk, trimmed
richly with cascades of wide earn lace, looked very
stylish. Two sisters wore very pretty costumes, com-
posed of pale blue and pale pink gingham, with bon-
nets of the same material and colour. Both being
brunette?, the effect was striking, hut none the less
pleasing. Another unspoildble dress was a pink flowered
satteen polonaise, over a myrtle green skirt, which was
very pretty. Indeed, the satteens and other cotton
dresses were amongst the prettiest on the grounds,
and they are the most sensible kind of dress to wear on
such a day, for a good soaking would spoil them only
for the time. A carriage-full of young ladies, all wear-
ing those favourite white flop hats, was a pretty
picture, the dresses of all being simple (with the ex-
ception of one, which was of ruby velvet), and the
majority of the faces comely.
* # #
A gentleman, holding a prominent position in a
soft-goods warehouse in this city will, next Tuesday,
enter the bonds of matrimony for a second time.
* # #
The belle of Darling Point, daughter of a member
of the Upper House, is betrothed to the son of a late
pastoral king of Mudgee. “ The smile that blessed
one lover’s heart has broken many more.”
# * #
rhe son of a well-known Crown Solicitor is to be
married to the daughter of a wealthy squatter, of Aber-
deen, Upper Hunter.
# * *
Last week, intending to do a good turn, we
intimated, for the benefit of amorous young men, that
no fewer than 120 eligible maidens are sighing the same
sad song at Richmond, “ No one to love, none to caress
but the bevy of beauty, the siren song, and the Un-
exampled opportunity offered to a pushing young man,
all failed to fetch the wooers. This week, we have
received from “Snowdrop” (delicious name!) a state-
ment that at Windsor, only a few miles distant, somo
150 single “sugar-sticks” are waiting to be mot*d.
We thought Yass a good place to send love-sick youth-
domto; hut, after this, Yass must take a back • eat,
and even sweet Richmond abdicate its pre-eminence as
a *'spooning" ground. But “Snowdrop” says that
although the Windsor femininities cannot “barg the
peanner” or “ bail up the cows ” like their Richmond
sisters, they, nevertheless, have plenty of admirers.
Well, so they ought to have; but that being the ca>-e,
what tho Mephistopheles was the object in saying any-
thing about them ? It look uncommonly like the - nhtle
advertising dodge, “Don’t read the other side,” for of
course, everybody will read the other side or break their
necks in the attempt. However, we intend to h*>lp dear
“ Snowdrop ” all we can: we’ll take a trip to Windsor
ourselves, and lock round. We can’t say fairer than
that.
# # *
A West Sydney postmaster is about to enter the
holy bonds of wedlock, with the daughter of a leading
Liverpool man.
* # #
The Liverpool Town Hall difficulty has been
surmounted, and the building will be opened shortly
with a plain and fancy dress bill. All petty aldermanic
differences are to be dropped for the nonce, and general
unity is to prevail. A big success is anticipated.
* * #
Another wedding on the tapis in Liverpool. A
charming young belle is about to gladden the h- art of
a Parramatta man. Wedding presents beginning to
arrive; cake being iced ; bridesmaids jubilant.
* * #
Prestonville is to have a bride—the daughter
a Barrack-street merchant.
# * *
On the 10th, at Rockhampton, the officers and
men of the Melbourne S S. Co.’s steamer Derwent were
entertained at a ball, in the Oddfellow’s Hall, in return
for the one given by them some few weeks ago. Their
friends mustered in force, and did all they could to
make it pleasant for everyone. The flags of the vessel,
lent by Captain Bristowe, were used for decorating the
plane, and the night’s fun concluded with the old-
fashioned “ Roger de Coverley,”
# # *
A silver wedding was celebrated at Enraore last
week.
A lady, dressed in silken white,
Looked particularly quite.
• * *
The Cosmopolitan Quadrille Club will hold their
first annual excursion to Tennyson (tho very name sug-
gests poetry of motion!) on Saturday, 29th instant.
* # *
Mrs. Martin, teacher of dancing, has issued
invitations to a large fancy dress tali, on the 28th
instant, in Pitt-street.
* a *
The Mercantile Marine picnic will eventuate at
Clontarf, on Saturday, 22nd of this month. Tho Com-
modore has been engaged for conveying the guest*', and
the friends of those who “go down to the sea in ships”
may expect a good day.
* * *
A Bazaar, in aid of St. Mary’s Convent at
Wollongong, was held in the Temperance Hall, at that
place, last week, and was well attended every evening.
There was a fine display of fancy work, both useful and
ornamental, which had been done by the young ladies
at the Convent, and reflected great credit on that, in-
stitution. The stall-holders were very enthusiastic in
their efforts to make the affair a success, and a large
amount cf money must have been gathered.
* * »
A dashing yonng lady, well known in the district,
attended the hunt at the Paterson last Saturday. She
was mounted on a beautiful bay. The bay negotiated
a fence and landed —the lady on her feet.
* # #
There are four bridal events on the card at
Armidale, and two at Tamworth.
VANITY FAIR.
At a recent wedding in London, of Mr.
Auriol Barker and Miss Cockerton, the bride
carried a bouquet more than two feet in diame-
ter. The seven bridesmaids completed a colour-
harmony in rich material, the first bridesmaid wearing
the palest shade of old gold, and the tint deepenieg,
until it became a bronze in the seventh lady
Amongst the rejoicings at Cardiff at the birth of an
heir to the Marquis of Bute, not the least noteworthy
was the treat to about 25,000 school children iu
Cathay’s Park, for whom twelve tons of cake were
provided, and three miles and a half of tablecloth were
required for the tables. Each child wore a badge em-
blazoned with the arms of the Earl of Dumfries A
new game is being introduced into England, called
“eye-peeping,” and the fun consists in trying to guess
the unknown owner of an eye which is shewn to the
spectators through a hole in the curtain At the sale
of the late Lord Boaconsfleld's effects, some pint
bottles of old champagne, “ Irroy’s” brand, wore sold
at the fabulous price of 200s. per doz Two miles
and three quarters of love-letters were said to have
passed between the parties to a breach of promise case
recently heard in England Gloves are now worn
over the sleeves of the dress, and are made of undressed
kid. Tan colours, condor browns, and black are most
sought after A pretty caprice for brightening up
black dresses, or to add to white toilettes, is a set con-
sisting of a spread fan, a pocket for the handkerchief,
and a Medicis collarette, made of surah, trimmed with
Spanish lace of the same colour, and clusters of flowers.
Ladies’ satchels are now quite large, square and
flat; the newest are made of alligator-skin Amongst
the new jackets wa read of one which, from description,
must be charming. White cloth with plastous of silk
let in at front and back, jackets embroidered, escut-
cheon style, with recumbent lions in silver thread,
metal drops to match; the shape is in the coat style.
A new combination of colours is brownish-yellow
and dull China blue; these harmonize well Amongst
the many charming hand-painted parasols, perhaps
those (i la Kate Greenaway, are the most effective. For
instance, a quaint, old-fashioned child leaning against
a gate, painted on a ground of black satin, with a lining
of old gold, is excessively pretty.
Heavy and almost general rainfall in New
South Wales.
The Hon. Arthur Eenwick, Minister for Mines,
was returned unopposed for East Sydney, on the 19th.
We are obliged to defer till another issue a
notice of Mr. John Sands' Christmas cards. Mean-
while, we gloat in selfish delight on their charms.
A most fearful scandal occurred recently at
Bondi. A man, in whom all natural feelings must bo
dead, went out to that glorious suburb, intending to
buy an allotment of land in the Queenscliff Estate.
He had actually fixed on an allotment, commanding
views of the ocean, the North and South Heads, and
Blue Mountains, and had really had it knocked down
to him, when the figure of a female wa? observed on
the Bine Mountains, moving in his direction. He
turned pale and tail and bolted. He had recognized
his mother-in-law. That allotment will be put up
again on Saturday next, together with many others
equally attractive, by Messrs. Hardie and Gorman,
who advertise to that effect elsewhere.
There is the little magistrate
Who can’t “ keep on his hair,” man.
But raves at brother justices.
And double d's the chairman.
There’s one who has not got the “ bang
Of English, bat’s ne’er owned it.
Who says—“ I tink dot ve'll take now
Dem cases vot’s postponded."
There’s civ’Iization’s ornament;
A “ mystery,” we ween.
Who was appointed by mistake—
But you Know whom we mean.
There is the “justice,” who before
He’s been in Court a minute
Says—” Evidence be sugared, I’m
jigom’ to wote agin it.”
There is the man, who with a sense
Of dignity’s e’er swelling.
Who blurts out—" Pris’ner we’re agoin’
To find you forty shillin’.”
THE BOTANIC GABDENS ON BAND DAY.
Oihe I for some desolate island,
Eemoto in the desolate sea,
Where never might come to beguile, and
To torture tho poor heart, set free.
These daughters of Eve, stepping slowly.
With mystical motion of grace,
With nebulous forelocks set lowly,
O’er foreheadless face!
Where now be your charms and your magic,
O fast, paling-stars of the North—
Lalage with the eyes, gay or tragic,
Lncette, with the nose, and so forth ?
Oh, darlings of England ! ye languish
Eclipsed ’neath-your dull empyrean,
By beauty and far-darting anguish,
Of syrens Sydnean.
O tremulous tangle of tresses!
O dusk-melting languor of eyes!
0 rose-leaves of Up’s pouting kisses!
O peerless blue beauty of skies!
O musical madness of Hadyn!
O tambours, O hautboys, O flutes !
O Eden-like glade, I have strayed in!
O stockings and boots!
EROS.


FECIAL
OFFER FOR FIFTY DAYS.
WATCHES for only 275. 6d.; the best in Australis,
Solid Cape Gold Cases (Hunting).
The Cases of these Watches ace made from a metal
that keeps its colour and nevir vanishes, and we are
now introducing :t for the first time in this country.
It costs more then other so-called metals, as it coa.
tains a percentage of Pure Gold, without which nq
metal can be made that will keep its colour.
OUE WATCHES are, in every particular, e<iual ia
appearance to a
£59 GOLD WATCH.
The Woika of these Watches, like the works of all
our Watches,
AEE OF THE BEST MAKE,
Hunting Cased, Full Plato, Jewelled, and well finished.
We claim for our Watches every merit that is claimed
for any Gold Watch costing
£5O OE MOEE.
In order to introduce our Watches in the most
speedy manner, we have decided on offering, through
the medium of the coupon found below, one of the above-
mentioned Watches for only 275. 6d., and present each
purchaser with a beautiful Albert Chain, made from
the same metal—Cape Gold—which answers the pur-
pose of Virgin Gold, and can be manufactured for less
than one-halt than pure gold (solid).
After January 1,1882, the regular price will be charged
for these Watches, viz , £4 10s. each, and 255. each for
Chains.
CUT THIS OUT.
Coupou.
On receipt of this Coupon and 27a. 6d„ we
agree to send FREE, one CAPE GOLD
WATCH, as de:cribed above, together with
a handsome Cope Gold Albert Chain.
(Signed)
A, D. LUDLOW & CO„
Hunter-street,
Sydney.
Notice.
No Watch will be sent without the COUPON accom-
panying the order. This offer is good for 60 days only.
When P.O. Order cannot be procured, stamps to tk«
value of 30s. will be received.
SEND AT ONCE AND SECUEE THIS GIFT, OE
IT MAY BE TOO LATE.
To Watch Speculators.
THESE WATCHES SELL EEADILT FEOM £5 UP.
Address all Orders to
A. D. LUDLOW AND CO.,
HUNTER STREET,
Between Pitt and Qeoboe Steeets,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
f E L B O XT R N E RACES.
Grand CUP and DERBY Days.
GEEATLY EEDUCED FAEES,
The splendid
5.5, CHEVIOT, 2000 tons
will leave Struth’s Wharf, foot of King-street,
on FEIDAY, October 21, at 4 o’clock.
And be followed by the
splendid S.S. EODONDO, 1000 tons,
on TUESDAY, October 25, at 4 o’clock.
And the PAST and favourite
5.5. LEUEA, 2000 tons,
on FEIDAY, Octeber 28, at 4 o’clock.
W. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
7 Spring-street.
STEAM to BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH
and EOCKHAMPTON.
The Splendid
S.S. DEEWENT,
H. B. Bristow, Commander.
Will leave Struth’s Wharf, foot of King-street
on TUESDAY, October 25, at 4 o’clock.
WM. HOWAED SMITH and SONS,
7 Spring-street.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER & lEONFOUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and EAILWAY EOLLING STOCK,
PIKE GIRDERS,
BURGLAR COLONIAL
PROOF OVENS,
DEED
AND {BOXES,
DOORS. Ac., Ac.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, A GLEBE FOUNDRY,
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET,
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTILITY TOGETHER!
W
HEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or what can resist them ?
the ruling principles id tke
All three are
PALACE EMPORIUM.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES as proof both positive and certain of
the soundness of those principles upon which their business is based. The people in all ranks of
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMABKET,
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We are now showing daily
OUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS.
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You may profitably spend a few moments
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A VISIT to the PALACE EMPORIUM
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASH-
MERE, BEIGE, &c.
DRESSMAKING.
MANCHESTER
GOODS.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
LADIES&CHILDREN
MANTLES, COS-
TUMES, MILLI-
NERY, Ac.
"FANCY” GOODS.
YOUTHS' and MEN’S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ONLY ONE ADDRESS
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an immense assortment at Is Gd, la Bd.
and Is lOd per yard. Of the truly splendid JAUBERT GROS GR4.IN SILK
there are 2000 yards at 2a per yard ; 220Q,at 2s 3d; 10 pieces at 2s Gd per yard ;
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3 cases, the prices ranging from 3s Gd to
10s Gd a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GROS GRAIN, known as BONNET’S
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3a Gd, 4s 3d, ss. 6s 3d, up to 12s Gd. Our
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are beauty itself. Once see them, and
it will be long before you forget them. There is COLOURED SATIN; also,
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20<L and 22d par yard. There is every shade.
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH BEIGE, all wool, all shades, 7Jd a
yard. There is the fashionable SARATOGA COSTUME CLOTH, at 9d.
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, remarkably cheap and good; and there
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT, turning out
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly and yet carefully.
There are CALICOES in all makes and at low prices. There is DIMITY
FIGURED from s^d; TABLE DAMASK from Is 4d; LINEN DIAPER at
all prices, and COT TON DIAPER at Gd; GREY SHEETING from GJd up to
Is 3d; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ranging from 7id to la 71d; and Twill
from lOd up to Is 9d. There are TURKISH TOWELS. 6|d each; and
i HONE if COMB, 2s lid a dozen.
| TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED, 5s 9d; PRINTED, from 4s lid;
and the “ RENOWNED VELVET PILE,” 2is, may be obtained.
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The goods are either button, elastic, or
laced. They are durable and fashionable. You may get anything here, from
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LADY’S COURT SHOE.
There are 330 beautiful DOLMANS and JACKETS. There are 300 superb
COSTUMES. There is every sort of shape in STRAW HATS and BONNETS.
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sight in itself.
There are RIBBONS, all shades, all colours, all prices. There is LACE,
Spanish, Cream, Gold, REAL BRETONNE, &o. The PALACE KID
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innumerable.
There is a continuous stream of Customers for our SUITS for Youths and
Boys, and for our well-known cheap and fashionable TROUSERS, VESTS,
SUITS, SHIRTS, HATS, CAPS, COLLARS, SCARPS, and NECKTIES
i for men.
j And the great point to be observed is this, that we have ONLY ONE
I address, and NO BRANCHES whatever, our card of business being simply
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY,)
SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST SALE OF WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
EVER HELD IK SYDNEY,
In consequence of Extensive Alterations to Premises.
C. HAE E R
Bees to inform his friends and the public in general that he is determined to offer his extensive and
magnificent stock of WATCHES and JEWELLERY at a Reduction of FIFTY PER CENT.,
so as to effect a speedy clearance, and as the sale is a hona fide one, and must positively close in a few
weeks, no time should be lost in securing bargains suitable for Birthday, Christmas, and other Presents.
The following List of a few of the Prices will convince all that such an opportunity of purchasing
GENUINE and FIRST-CLASS GOODS from an Old-Established House cannot occur again
SEE THE PRICES!
sr English Levers...
lerara’s Silver Lovers
er Waltham Watches
ies’ Gold Watches,
nial Gold Alberts
lish Gold ~
ies’ Gold „
I Lockets
Reduced price. Original price.
n V/\ A « —l. /? A A /.I.
Reduced price. Original price
Colonial Gold Earrings... 010 G pair 110 0 pair
Colonial Gold Brooches... 0 10 6 each 10 0 each
Wedding Rings 0 4 9 „ 010 0 „
Keeper Rings 0 5 0 „ 010 0 „
Gold Stnds 0 4 0 set 010 6 set
Silver Brooches & Earrings 0 5 6 „ 015 0 „
Silver Bracelets 0 7 6 each 0 17 6 each
Silver Rings ... 0 1 6 „ • 3 6 „
Sicgle Stone, Half Hoop, and Cluster Diamond Rings, equally Low Prices.
Note the Address : 314 (Late 328) OEORQE STREET.
A fool and his money are soon parted, as the
man found out who paid 50 per cent, more for his goods,
instead of going to Hamburger Brothers and Co., 375
Gsorge-street, who are relinquishing business, and sell
their stock of watches, clocks, jewellery, pipes, and
fancy goods, at English cost. Open from 8 to 1 and 2
to 6. —Adtt.
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
A G'GANTIC DISTRIBUTION AND NOVELTY!
Grand Opening Night, commencing
MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 21th, 1881,
at 8 o’clock.
The Management has great pleasure in announcing
the first appearance in Sydney of the famous
HONG KONG CHINESE ORCHESTRA
and
OPE BA COMPANY.
20 IN NUMBER 20
(Direct from China).
THE ONLY COMPANY OP THE KIND EVER
SEEN IN THESE COLONIES.
Performing on all the different Chinese Musical In-
etruments as used in China, and also introducing all
ite latest Chinese Novelties, with songs, sayings, and
doings as performed in the leading Theatres throughout
China.
MAGNIFICENT COSTUMES,
Imported expressly for thia Company,
Making this
THE GREATEST NOVELTY ON RECORD.
Combined with this Company is
THE WORLD’S
GRAND PRESENTATION FESTIVAL.
£lOOO
IN’ DIAMONDS, WATCHES, and SILVER PLATE,
To he distributed to the audiences during our season.
The following Beautiful Presents will be distributed
to the audiences nightly:—
3 Magnificent Diamond Rings, valued at 6 guineas each
each
3 Gold Watches
3 Silver Watches
0 Tea and Coffee Services, 4 pieces
0 Cake Baskets
6 Cruet Stands
25 Butter Coolers , _
And a Beautiful
SUITE OF FURNITURE, Valued at 20 Guineas.
Wo import our own Presents direct, hence our ability
to make such
VALUABLE PRESENTATIONS.
5
3
4
2
30s.
Bs.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
A sample of each of the above Magnificent Presents,
that we will distribute to our audiences nightly, will
be on exhibition in tho show window of Mr.' John
Hunter’s City Boot and Shoe Palace, 451 George-street,
one door south of Market-street, on and after Saturday,
October 22nd.
Be Sure and See Them.
SCALE OF PRICES:
Gallery aud Downstairs, 2*.; Second Seats, 35.;
Front Seats, 4s.
J. E. FULTON,
Manager.
T
HEA T R E
Lessee
Treasurer.
ROYAL
Mr. S. Lazar.
.Mr. Q. L. Goodman.
LAST NIGHTS
LAST NIGHTS
of
LA FILLEDD TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. .
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at ten mmntes to 8
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may be pur-
chased during the day at H. Soltan’s, tobacconist, 116
King-street.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
JO!
AT THE QUEEN’S
SATURDAY uiglit, 29th instant.
M E.
M E -
AND MBS. EDWIN PALMER.
(LEADING OLD MAN AND WOMAN.)
Another great success as
ME. AND MRS. MOLE.
Open at Brisbane, Oct. 10.
and MRS. W. 11. THOMPSON,
ON TOUR.
ADDRESS:
Hobart, October 10th.
New Zealand to follow.
Mercantile marine picnic,
to be held at
CLONTAEP, on
SATUEDAY, 22nd OCTOBEE, 1881.
Steamer COMMODOEE mil leave No. 2 Jetty,
Circular Quay, at 10 a.m., and 12.30 p.m. sharp; first
boat returning at 5 p.m.
Tickets from Working Committee:—William Stuart,
Loch Etrio; J. Peter. Duchess of Edinburgh; J. Fern-
mister, Cimba: T. Hutton, Cynisoa; E. C. Bennett,
ThessaJua; J. Crystal, Trafalgar; Smith, Windsor.
rriHE cosmopolitan quadrille club
will hold their
TIEST ANNUAL EXCUESION to TENNYSON
on
SATUEDAY, 29th October.
The popular Imperial Band has been engaged for the
occasion. Proceeds to be devoted to Mas onic Charities.
Steamers leave Circular Quay at 2 and 2 15 sharp.
W. A. STANLEY,
Secretary.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
PIEATES of PENZANCE,
H.M S. PINAFORE,
PATIENCE,
By Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan,
BILLEE TAYLOR,
By Messrs. Stephens and Solomon.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON is the sole proprietor in
the Australian colonies, Tasmania, and New Zealand,
of the above comic operas. Proprietors, managers', and
lessees of Theatres, Concert Halls, &0., and other per-
sons, whether professionals or amateurs, are therefore
warned that the unauthorized production of the said
operas, or any portion of the words or music thereof,
renders all concerned therein liable to severe penalties
and damages, which will, in every case, be strictly
enforced.
For information, apply—
MACDONALD’S International Dramatic Agency,
fit SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
General Agent fer Mr. Williamson;
LYNCH & MACDONALD, Solicitors, Market-square,
Gollins-strect, Melbourne.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Concert at the Glebe this (Thursday) evening.
The Princes left Fiji several days before Sir
Arthur Gordon arrived.
In consequence of the lateness of the session
N.Z. Parliament dropped the Suppression of Society
Papers’ Bill.
All the N.S.W. lighthouses and pilot stations
were officially inspected last weak, and the result is
statjed to haye been satisfactory.
A Melbourne bookmaker named Eiley, recently
insolvent, has been arrested on a charge of obtaining
goods by means of false pretences.
There is to be a full enquiry as to the cause of
the recent accident at George’s Head Battery, by which
Mr. W. A. Bucknell, surveyor, met his death.
The Cooma Municipal Council are making such
a muddle of municipal affairs, that the ratepayers have
called a meeting to request the whole body to resign.
A party of brigands recently “ ditched ” a
Pacific (U.S ) railway train, and robbed it of a largo
sura of money. Government reward for their capture—
£3ooo.
The Maoris arc again causing trouble at Pari-
haka (N.Z.), and the armed constabulary has had to be
re-inforced, so as to be ready for anything serious.
Some predict war.
Guiteau, the assassin, has been arraigned for
wilful murder. The leader of the IT. 8. Government
has not yet waited on him in his cell, the reason being,
we believe, that he can find no reporter reliable enough
to accompany him.
In the Botanic Gardens, Adelaide, a man named
Hoyle was stuck up by two men, who demanded his
money, and on his refusing to “fork out,” they fired
two shots from a revolver, and wounded him in the
legs. The Chief Secretary, in the Assembly, promised
to offer a reward for the capture of the men.
Respecting the small-pox epidemic, the Aus-
tralian Medical Gazette says:—“ The mode adopted
by ihe Government for the prevention of the spread of
the disease cannot bo regarded as likely to have bene-
fited the persons attacked, and it may fairly be adduced
that the treatment adopted has, in some of the caves,
caused the death of the patients."
Another strange bank robbery is reported from
Melbourne—with the additional fact, however, that the
perpetrator has been arrested. Charles Thorp, teller
of the Sink of Victoria, took from tho vaults of the
bank 2000 sovereigns, and invested them in the Metro-
politan Building Society, replacing them with bags of
copper. On being challenged he replaced the money.
Thorp was one of the most trusted of the bank officers,
and was connected with the bank for 22 years. Ha was
in receipt of £350 a year. When brought before the
general manager, he said he had taken the money, but
had not stolen it. Ho had thought he wouM do more
good to have it employed than by letting it be idle.
•j bis robbery is quite distinct from the late robbery of
£2500.
Produce Report.
THE BULLETIN Office, October 19, 1881.
Oil the wharves, old lucerne hay is dull of sale at
from £2 to £2 10s per ton, no prime new hay arriving,
hut mu ket overstocked with inferior samples. Maize
firm at 3s to 3s 3d. Oats, seed and feed, 2a 9d to 3s per
I'nsbel. Circular Head potatoes, £3 5s to £3 15s.; New
Zealand, £2 to £2 10s per ton. Victorian onions, £20
to £23 per ton. Chaff, £4 15s to £5 per ton, bags in-
c’uded. Butter, m k;-g, 81 to 10d per lb. Eggs, 9d to
lOd per dozen. Bacon, 41 to 61. Cheese, 61 to 81.
Ham, 61 to 81. per lb. Fowls, 3s 61 to 4s. Ducks,
1 61 to 5s. Geese, 6s 61 to 7s 6d. Turkeys, 10s to 20s
]> n r pair.
Fat Cattle. —At Homebush, fat stock sales, 890
head of caule were yarded. The market was slightly
cisier. Be-1 beef realised £2 to £2 6s. per 1001b. Best
wet liars sold f t from 11s. 101. to 13s.
Flesh Meat. — A.t the Darling Harbour railway
terminus the daily supply of fresh beef continues in
go 1 sort and trisk in demand; the primest quality
.■ • I from 2Jd. to 3d. per lb., and medium at 2|d. per lb.
: 1 iound, at. the Riverstone Company’s auction sales.
Wheat. —Wheat is searce, and holders can place it if
prime. The price of wheat is in excess of value asked
f >; 11 >ur. Adelaide wheat, 5s 9d to 5s lOd; New South
Waips, 5 j 101 ; Victorian, 5s 8d ; Launceston, 5s 3d, and
N » Z ialand, 5s per bushel.
F.onn —The market is well supplied. Prices are
Sydt.ey super fine flour, £13 10s ; household, £12 10s;
s c mds, £11 10s per ton; New South Wales, country
t ia ids, £12 10s to £13 10s : Victorian flour, £12 10s to
£13; Adelaide, £12 10s to £13 15s. Bran and pollard,
1 21 to Is 3d per bushel.


QLIFFORD, L 0 V I
TEA IMPORTER
EASTERN AND COMM
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments,
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize
PRESERVES—Indian Prii
COFFEE —Plantation No.
Do. „ Peab
Do. „ Nos.
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pea
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Blai
OFFICES 79 YORK 5
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BI
JOHN D
IMPOSTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswi
Qasfittings, Globes, Electric 1
Butchers’ Brine Pi
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lend Pipe, &
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
c
E
H. L SUMIKERI
ECONOMY IN CLOI
L
E
B
R
A
T
E
D
SAVE 20 PER CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS FROI
DIRECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE’S T
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEA
tent to any part of the i
ay The particular attention o
dents is requested to th
Any style ofc Garment made 1
BUMMERFIELI
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAS
s
1G
c nr niTT OT
MOST PLEA
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO B
that the best cleans
TANT and Deodoriser for t
SMALL POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DU
can he found by v
PANTER AND PARRY'S b
OP SOAP,
which not only contains tl
clients for the greatest clea
ever yet introduced to tin
composed in its mauufactiu
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY PROM
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in al
throughout the globe. Coml
it is tree from all injur ioi
pleasing smell, will not iuju
cate hands, is the greatest
lalxmr, rendering any srticli
with of the purest whiten
marvellous short space of tin
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot be surpassed 1
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crock
Paint, Ploori
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which
EACH PACKET, which r.
from all Orecers and Store!
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 6EORGI
SYD N E 1
IN THE WOI
Dispense Prescriptions cheai
other House in Sydney. All 1
Medicines at less than English pr
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponf
ALL KINDS OP DRUGGISTS’
Send for a Price List. Country
ally attended to. Don’t forget
Yon cannot mistake it —
Opposite Hordern’s Now B
W. KER
MANUFACTURING .
WATCH AND CLOCI
604 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew's
Medals’of every description, Masi
sentation Trowels designed t
Premises.
DIAMOND SETT
A sew and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, fron
INC STREET S
r* ii np
MARTIN & Pi
MARTIN & PAIN, HORNS6'
389 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY. ——■
Are uik
■
They are thi
They are tht
They are tht
They are tht
They are Mi
They do the
WE CALL
THEM UJ
THE DEEP
THE PINK
THE DRUj
THE DRU
THE FING
We Guara;
FARMER
Mo other r
SEND I]
Sole BUS
Agents
389 GEC
HORNSb v
Steel S TRIPPER
We sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year,
and every purchaser has sent us as good a testimonial at
it is possible to write.
COPIES OF THESE TESTIMONIALS POSTED TO EVERY ENQUIRER.
ttr FARMERS see the HORNSBY
BEFORE ORDERING ANY OTHER.
i
SILiV'E
rjHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REi
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy<
1 T7-T-T T> ~XT TTr A
/y/a irr» t ~nm~m
7..-
-=
msuk k
STANDARD
RE ADV-MADE-SUITS
FOR
Business
PROM EIMADE
Travelling
(XUALITY yachting
STyM Picnicinfr
Durability rviokrtimr
■if unsurpassed trimeuiig,
Frica List For
FIRST QUALITY STANDARD TWEED SUITS
EXTRA do. do. do.
SUPERIOR do. do. do.
FIRST QUALITY STANDARD BLUE SERG3
EXTRA do. do, do.
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONES.
THESE INSTRUMENTS, combining Edison’s most recent improvements, are now acknowledged to be the most
perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of workmanship, elegance of design, and non-
liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
THE EDISON-BELL TELEPHONE
Has been adopted for the Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane Telephone Exchanges, and by numberless commercial
houses throughout the Colonies.
Telephones without batteries, (with magnetic calls) to speak over any distance, for country use, guaranteed to
give satisfactory results.
H. i. KINGSBURY,
SOLE AGENT,
6 Market Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
