

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6,-No. 75.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATUEDAY, JULY 2, 1881.
Mr. Lackey on Railways.
It is a curious fact that although the greater
share'if the orating during the tour of Sir John
Eobebtson and Mr. Lackey through the
Northern Districts has been borne by the veteran
Yice-President of the Executive Council, the
most notable speech has been made by Mr.
Lackey. At Glen Innes the Minister for Works
seemed to let himself out, and there can be no
question but that his deliverances on that occasion
have been the best justification of the Ministry
which has been attempted since the inception of
the present coalition.
* * *
Mr. Lackey’s style is not so flowery as that of
his leader. Sir John’s method has been more than
a little ornate, even somewhat pretentious. The
knight has been so greatly concerned with the
past that he has fallen into the error of being just
a trifle forgetful of the present. He has dis-
coursed, naturally enough, about the Education
system, and has enlarged on the wonderful merits
of the agrarian scheme of which he is author.
Brit these are somewhat abstract subjects, and
occasionally Sir John's magniloquence has been
carried to a point where the sublime merges into
the ridiculous, as, for instance, when he claimed
that Mr. Gladstone has in framing his Irish
Land Bill been the humble imitator of Sir John
Eobebtson.
* * •
, Mr. Lackey, on the other hand, had a prac-
ticable theme to deal with, and handled it in a
practical manner. It is doing the Minister for
Works no mere than justice to admit that he has
shown himself competently seized of the branch
of administration which is his especial charge. His
demonstration of the claims of the Ministry upon
the approbation of the country has been forcible
and well conceived. “ If,” said Mr. Lackey,
the resources of the colony were to be brought
to the surface, there was no more active agent
than a system of communication which would be
the means of settling the people on the lands, and
utilizing their produce after they had settled
down. This, certainly, is merely a truism ; but
it is important to remember that it is only of late
that our politicians have opened their minds suffi-
ciently to recognise it. No one can forget that
during the first five years of the past decade rail-
way construction crawled on at the miserable rate
ot only 18 miles per annum.
* * #
. The credit of breaking the spell of laisser oiler
is due to our late Governor, Sir Hercules Eobin-
son, whose courageous departure from the'conven-
tional trammels of non-intervention in political
affairs, and whose stirring appeal to the people
to rouse their party leaders to a sense of
duty, laid the colonists under an obligation which
can never be forgotten or repaid. It seems pro-
bable that were the people of N.S.W. polled on
the subject to-morrow, there would be an over-
whelming majority in favour of voting for Sir
Hercules Eobinson a pecuniary testimonial
which would, by its liberality, cast into the shade
the notorious grant which a party in Victoria
sought to present to Sir Charles Darling as a
reward for partizanship.
* • #
It is cheering to perceive that the lesson, morti-
fying as must have been its inculcation to those
prominent politicians who had been content to
owe their supremacy to mere management of party
manoeuvres, had been fairly taken to heart;
and to perceive a Minister asking with
emphasis, as Mr. Lackey did at Glen Innes,
what better work the Government of the coun-
try could be engaged in, than in carrying
out a railway system which gave to public
coffers a return greater per cent, than we
are paying for the money borrowed for their con-
struction ? For our own part, although not
enamoured of the coalition as a Government, we
may confess that we know of no better work upon
which the energies of a Ministry could be con-
centrated. At the same time this is not incom-
patible with an opinion that even such work,
important and engrossing as it certainly is, should
not be sufficient to absorb the entire energies of a
Cabinet. For the material advancement of the
colony, nothing could be more important; but
there remain a hundred affairs connected with
social development which demand to be simul-
taneously attended to.
Mr. Lackey stated that the work of construct-
ing our great trunk lines has been pretty nearly
provided for. It would, perhaps, be difficult to
define precisely what is worthy and what unworthy
of being regarded as a trunk line. But, broadly
regarde'd by present lights, Mr. Lackey’s allega-
tion may be accepted as substantially correct.
The next step is naturally to decide what branch
lines should be constructed—a necessity which the
Minister showed himself to be fully alive to. In
making selections of subsidiary lines, there will
be many inducements to depart from the sub-
stantial merits of competing claims. Political
pressures and exigencies will come into strong and
excited activity when such subjects have to be
decided; and it is precisely under such conditions
that the political straightforwardness and devotion
to principle on the part of political leaders is
brought to the ordeal.
* * *
In this respect the hopes of„the community for
undeviating rectitude of administration are pro-
bably in excess of their anticipations. They have
had too long and too depressing experience of the
leaders now working together, to have much con-
fidence in their resolution to subordinate love of
predominance to conviction of duty. But it is
useless to dwell upon this aspect of the question.
If the electors are thoroughly in earnest in sup-
porting only su ;h men as are guided by the fixed
principle of doing the right thing, they can displace
political shufflers whenever they please. There is,
however, a practical development from, the situa-
tion, as stated by Mr. Lackey, which seems to
have not received from the Ministry or the public
sufficient attention. The Minister for Works de-
monstrated, with a cogency which seems ample
for all purposes, that our standard gauge is the
best possible for our trunk lines. But there is no
gainsaying the fact that, as compared, for in-
stance, with the narrow gauge of our Queensland
neighbours, ours is extremely costly.
When branch, or feeding, lines are contem-
plated, therefore, it would be important to consider
the whole subject from a fresh standpoint. The
inconvenience arising from any break of gauge
will require to be most deliberately weighed
against the advantage of being able, for the same
sum of money, to construct two miles of railway
(adequate for all subsidiary purposes) in lieu of
one mile of superfluous width and strength. It is
obvious there must be many localities where
a railway at =£3ooo per mile could be profitably
laid down and worked, whereas one at .£6OOO per
mile would involve a dead loss on the cost of
working. The reference made to tramways shows
that Mr. Lackey has not failed to recognize
something of the necessity for discrimination ; but
it will not be too much to ask that he should
avail himself of an early opportunity for acquaint-
ing the public, in a manner as lucid as his exposi-
tion of the merits of our present system, what
researches the Ministry have made into this
important subject, what have been the materials
upon which their calculations have been based,
and what has been their determination.
The Hon. George A. Lloyd, M.P.
Financiers are not socially estimated as they
deserve ; they are ordinarily looked upon as men
who never indulge in poetic fancies, and enter-
tain strong prejudices against humorous literature.
Few give them credit for liveliness of wit, and
their jokes (if they venture any) are rarely re-
tailed. It is looked upon as something tradition-
ally due to the bureau of Finance and Trade
that its sachems (or chiefs) should put on solemn
looks and assume the virtue of a Carlylian reti-
cence even if “ they have it not.” This must be
all popular delusion, founded on false premises.
That illustrious prestidigitateur of political econo-
mies, the late Lord Beaconsfield, threw a kind of
literary aureole round his whole public life, and
esteemed himself to be a wit and philosopher, as
well as a Chancellor of the Exchequer. His'great
rival, Gladstone, of Homeric memory,
of greater solidity, wandering from history to
classic myth, from the latter to the legends of the
Christian Church, and finally “ furbishing all the
rusty weapons ” in his logical armoury to engage
with a knight worthy of his prowess on the field of
modern Polemics. Lord Viscount Sherbrooke,
the “ white-headed ” Bob Lowe of honorable and
bright colonial renown, was more of an orator and
critic than a bookseller’s “ hack,” although he
turned out, a few years ago, some neat work in
pamphleteering. Curiously enough, and as if to
maintain the identity of race and tradition, the
greatest of our colonial treasurers have been men
of literary turns and abnormal tempers. Mr.
William Forster marshalled masses of figures
while he was, in his leisure hours, noting figures
of thought—tropes, allegories, truths in sym-
bol ; Mr. Geoffrey Eagar indited ballads
on the frolics of Sir John Robertson and
others, during the interspaces between
office hours and bedtime, and if Mr.
George A. Lloyd has not so openly flirted with
the Muses as his predecessors, he has, neverthe-
less, the reputation of being a solid commercial
critic, and a vigorous letter-writer; and has en-
riched the columns of the Sydney Moen-
ing He bald in days gone by with articles
of fine quality and pronounced flavour. As
he has strongly indicated his individuality as a
public man, both at the Treasury and in the House
of Assembly, his career is well worthy of note and
study. He was born at Norwood, near London,
on the 14th November, 1815, and educated at
Aske’s Hospital School, London, where he dis-
tinguished himself by assiduity and docility. He
became clerk to a shipping and insurance broker
of “ the great city ” in 1830, and three years later
came out with his employer to New South Wales.
He established a business, in 1834, at Hinton,
Hunter River, in connection with the Sydney
establishment, which he continued successfully for
four years, when he “faced the wilderness” on
his own account by starting as farmer and settler
on the banks of the Williams. Three years’ rural
experience did not satisfy his yearning for success
in life. He found out in good time that agricul-
ture did not accord with his tastes ; and he accord-
ingly (in 1840) returned to Sydney, where he
established himself as an auctioneer, and soon
began to do a very large business. Fortune has
not uniformly smiled upon Mr. Lloyd About this
time he was obliged to seek the relief of the Insol-
vency Court —not for the last time, as the indomit-
able spirit of enterprise which held possession of
the man has been ever prompting him to venture
in stormier and less explored seas than most of his
contemporaries had the nerve to navigate. When,
however, prosperity returned to his side, Mr. Lloyd
lost no time in bethinking him of his creditors, and
by way of a New Year’s Gift, one Ist of January,
presenting to each a cheque for the amount neces-
sary to makeup a payment of 20s. in the £. In 1851
he became a gold-buyer, and was the compiler of the
‘ Weekly Gold Circular,” which did much at the
time to give miners and others exact information
of proceedings in the gold market. Having in
1855 realised a considerable fortune, he went to
England with his family, where he acted from
1856 to 1859 as agent for the colony. During that
period, a bold, but unsuccessful, investment of
capital in steamships nearly wrecked his fortunes,
but not his spirit of enterprise. He returned to
the colony in 1860, and commenced business as
a merchant. He has been the largest importer of
wheat and flour from California and Chili amongst
our local mercantile body, and was at one time
largely a shipowner. He entered on his political
career in 1869, as representative for the city of
Newcastle, for which constituency he has been
since frequently returned, and is now one of its
members. He had not long to wait for Ministerial
beatification, as he received the portfolio of Post-
master-General, in the first Parkes Administra-
tion, on the 14th May, 1872, and held office till the
December following, when he became Colonial
Treasurer, an office he retained until the Bth Feb-
ruary, 1875. He was subsequently Minister for
Mines, from the 22nd of March to the 16th of
August, 1877. Through his comparatively long
public service, he forcibly impressed his prin-
ciples of action on the Legislature, and was instru-
mental in carrying Bills through Parliament for the
abolition of the ad valorem duties, most of the
specific duties, the postage on newspapers, and
the tonnage dues at Newcastle, Wollongong, and
Kiama. He also reduced the rate of interest
on the Loan Bills, passed in 1873, from 5 to 4 per
cent.— which has been the rate ever since, and is
financially a great “ saving grace ” to the colony.
Mr. George A. Lloyd’s honours and emprizes are
not altogether mercantile and political, for he is
a livery and freeman of the city of London, and
a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society.
It was through his energy that, the Sydney
Exchange was raised, some ten years ago,
from a state of despondency (bordering on
insolvency) to one of vigorous life, the shares
having risen from =£2 to .£lO each, during the
period indicated. He was one of the founders of
the Mutual Provident Society—the most success-
ful institution of the kind in the world —and last
year was largely instrumental in bringing the
miners’ strike at Newcastleto a termination.
THE HON. GEORGE A. LLOYD, M.P.


The biggest, big, big—poster letter in Australasia is at
H. E. Woods and Co.’s, 13 Bridge-street. Every
variety of plain and ornamental printing done at the
shortest notice and lowest prices.—Advt.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Syned on Picnics.
The cordial appreciation, by the members of the
Church of England Synod, of the service which it has
been the good fortune of The Bulletin to render to
the community, in bringing into strong relief the
mischiefs attendant upon some public picnics, is only
what might have been expected. The approbation of
such a body is of course heartily welcome, and the
cheers which endorsed the Rev. Mr. Babniee’s claim
for "all honour to the journal which exposed those
scenes," will serve to strengthen the encouragement
already received to persevere in that course of uncom-
promising plain speaking about abuses likely to sap
public morality, which The Bulletin has ventured to
initiate. Supported as we have been by the approbation
ofthe general public, and perceiving this alacrity on the
part of the clergy to co-operate with us in our efforts to
grapple with crying evils, the task before us seems
lightened.
• * •
We are perfectly aware that in addressing ourselves
to bringing before public notice the frightful evils
which had grown out of indiscriminate excursions bv
young persons to what is, in fact, simply “ the bush,”
we were not first in the field. Nothing that we wrote
descriptive of the orgies at Clontarf exceeded in signifi-
cance the import of communications long ago addressed
to the S. M. Herald by the present Dean of
Sydney. The difference appears to have been
merely that, whereas Dean Cowpee generalised,
we accepted the risk of describing, with only so
much reserve of terms as decency demanded,
the actual proceedings at a particular place upon a
specific occasion. Mr. Thomas Robertson’s taunts,
addressed to the clergymen at the Synod, that they
had remained inactive until aroused by the sensation
evoked by a hardier style of journalism than has been
common in Sydney, were, therefore, gratuitous and
misdirected. The clergy had not failed in their duty in
the manner suggested by Mr. Robertson. But as a
matter of fact, clergymen are often, like the husbands
of unfaithful wives, the last people to knew what is
going on.
m * m
There is a fashion in these things. It is a point of
breeding to assume a special comportment when a
clergyman is present. People who are not ordinarily
particslar about their expressions would reproach
themselves if they, by any slip, swore in presence of a
“parson.” When a clergyman joins any group, the
whole drift of the conversation is as often as not
changed in deference to his presumed susceptibilities.
Worldly opinions and styles are shuffled, so to speak,
into the cupboard, and a “ safe" direction is given to
the general discourse. There is in this practice some-
thing of complaisance, and a certain portion of
hypocrisy. However compounded, it is assuredly a
serious evil. To the clergy it is essential above all
things to plumb the depths of people’s hearts and
minds. To be compelled to live in a world apart, and
frame their ministrations in a setting of “ things that
seem,” utterly different from things that are, is the very
reverse of their desire and of their mission. Tet we
must seriously affirm that, to a very great extent, this
is the position into which the clergy are thrust by a
prevailing disingeauonsness often regarded as simple
complaisance or “ manners." To what extent this de-
lusion, and this artificial separation of the clergy into
a special caste, on ly to be addressed in a particular and
conventional style, operates, depends in some degree
upon the penetration or other qualities of individual
ministers.
♦ * *
While some of the reverend gentlemen who discussed
the subject brought into prominent notice by this
journal claimed, with perfect truth, that they had been
previously aware that there were dangers attendant
upon picnics by large numbers of young peo-
ple, and had either discountenanced such excur-
sions altogether, or had taken special precau-
tions in conducting them, there were others who
affirmed rather hotly that picnics in connection
with the Sunday schools and with the Church
of England had been invariably free from dangers and
disasters. At the risk of giving offence to these gentle-
men, and of alienating the kind feelings with which
they evidently regard The Bulletin at the present
time, we deem it necessary to emphatically inform them
that they are under a dangerous delusion. Speaking
not from personal observation this time, but on the
strength of reliable information volunteered by persons
Morthy of every credence, who themselves were eye-
witnesses, and speaking also in the sense of what we
gather to be a very widespread conviction, we are com-
pelled to avow our belief that even at Sunday school
picnics serious mischief has occurred. Should any
clergyman desire to have more particular information, we
shall be ready to communicate to him what has come
to our knowledge in this respect.
* * •
We are glad to have won the countenance of the clergy
of the Church of England. There has been a formidable
growth of social evils going on for years past in this
community, which, in view of the strong expression of
public abhorrence recently evoked by our disclosures,
we are justified in attributing in great part to the
absence of the check which would have been exercised
by a courageous Press. Such comments and remon-
strances as had been published from time to time had
been so veiled in indeflniteness of phraseology and
timidity of expression, that the public never realised
that serious and sensational facts were alluded to in
terms so tame and indifferent. The experiment of
downright plain speaking—conveying to the public
without any shuffling precisely what was happening—
has been a daring one. Because the facts we narrated
were themselves sensational, we were accused of
sensational writing,—and the accusation was repeated
even after it was proved to all the community that what
was conveyed, in language suitable for general perusal,
in our article, fell short of the iniquities which had
actually happened.
* * *
Discriminative people have readily distinguished that
it was not our article, but the evidence which was ad-
duced in support of that article, which was “sensa.
tional,” The co operation of the clergy is most necessary
in combating social delinquencies. We believe we have
established a claim to that co-operation, and we are
gratified by the evidence afforded by the proceedings at
the Synod that we are in a fair way to gain it.
Reform in Victoria.
The Conservatives of Victoria have scored a win after
all. The struggle and anxiety, the turmoil and dis-
turbance, which have been due to the efforts of the
Liberals to shake off the incubus of monopolists, have
resulted in a tie, apparently very considerably in favour
of the latter. But the world has not come to an end,
nor has Yictorian energy suffered paralysis. The past
efforts are spent: the present situation seems poor
compensation for all the throes which Victorian society
has had to undergo. But the future is still all tbtir
own. The half-success of the Conservatives is perhaps
about the worst thing which could have happened for
the colony. It does not give peace to the community,
or even repose to the baited monopolist. The Liberal
leaders do not so much as pretend to accept the com-
position as closing the transaction. They declare
unreservedly that it is as much as they can hope to ,
extort this time, and that they will drag out the rest as
soon as they get breath for a fresh effort. The Con-
servatives, however, chuckle in reply to this that for i
every point conceded they have gained another. If the
qualification for members and voters of the Council
has been lowered, by so much will the Chamber be
strengthened. This is so far true that a section among
the Liberals themselves view the situation with appre-
hension, and would have preferred to reject all com-
promise, and accept nothing less than a radical reform.
But it will probably be found that the sagacity of the
leaders of the party has not deserted them now, and
that the Council has really lost more than it has gained,
so that further measures of reform will be secured with
greater ease than heretofore. The calculation is,
perhaps, rather a nice one, but the Liberal party every-
where can afford to accept risks. The spirit of the age
is with them, and the law of progress is dominant. In
Victoria there is no abatement, but apparently a revival
ef earnestness among the people; and it is a signal of
the times that the Liberals are earnest in desiring, and
the Conservatives anxious to avert, an appeal to the
people and a general election.
Alderman and Cockfighting.
The atmosphere of suspicion and distrust, of Icorrnp.
tion and disclosures, in which the Municipal Council
of Sydney has long been existing, has been almost
incomprehensible to decent citizens. The hints which
have been circulating during the past week, respecting
the presence at a surreptitious cock-fight of more than
one worshipful member of the aldermanio body, afford
a clue, trifling perhaps at first view, bat very significant
when carefully examined, to the conditions which make
corrupt practices linkable in the public ideas with
aldermanic supervision. Without going so far as to
say that a man—possibly a magistrate—who finds en-
joyment in witnessing a cockfight will not be particular
about countenancing a contractor’s swindle, it may be
safely affirmed that the mental organization of such a
man is of a coarser texture than is reconcileable
with the proper occupation of the position of
a leader among citizens. Fifty years ago fight-
ing a main of cocks was a fashionable recrea.
tion, and no discredit attached to a propensity for
such an entertainment. But, during the year g
which have elapsed, the march of refinement has been
very rapid. The intelligent and sensitive man of to-day
regards with abhorrence and repugnance proceedings
which would not have made a nerve of his grandfather
twitter ; and views as degrading modes of self-advance-
ment, or enrichment, which formerly were accepted as
things of course. The two conditions are closely allied
They are part and parcel of a lower type of mental
organization than is now accepted as the standard for
respectable and decent men. There are delicate and
finicking scamps, who swindle without compunction.
But, striking an average, it is a'reasonable proposition
that the grosser a man’s ideas of what constitutes
pleasure, the less sensitive he is likely to be with respect
to other affairs. The moral is plain in at least one
direction—that patrons of cockflghting are not the sort
of men who fairly represent the intelligence and
scrupulous sensibility of the citizens of to-day. It is no
surprise to learn that the system which has produced
rotten foundations has also developed cock-pits.
Australian Kidnappers.
It is provoking in the extreme to perceive the unplea-
sant results which have been achieved by the well-mean w
ing craze of the Exeter Hall fanatics in England, and of
their emissaries and adherents in this part of the world-
At the very time when there j was reason to expect that
the Imperial Governmentlwonld have been considering
whether it had not become requisite to repair the mis*
chief already wrought by a fanciful regulation of South
Sea Island affairs, news comes to hand which indicates
that there is a likelihood of the trouble being intensified.
The representations sent home by the members of the
Conference representing all the Australasian Colonies
combined, forcibly pointing out the radical senselessness
of the existing system of interference in the South Seas,
seem to have been set at naught, while the Government
is about to move in deference to the lop-sided
allegations of Captain Turpie and the mission-
ary party. Massacre has succeeded massacre
of Europeans; overwhelming evidence has been forth-
coming that the system fostered by Sir Arthur Gordon
and Mr. Justice Gorrie has been inadequate to protect
anyone, and most oppressive to British traders, yet all
the result heard of is that kidnapping and slavery are to
be put down by International agreement. If kid-
napping and slavery exist, by all means let them be
suppressed with a strong hand. But it does seem re-
quisite that the Imperial—the paternal—anxiety should
extend a little further. There are in onr group not
only kidnappers and slave-drivers —with all deference to
the Exeter Hall party, we venture to point out that there
are also widows and orphans of seafaring men murdered
by savages. It might be as well for some International
agreement to be come to to put down murder and
piracy also—murder of British subjects and piratical
destruction of British ships.
A “Bright” Prospect.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., with his clear, forcible diction
and his straight common sense, wields a power over the
British public as wide and deep-set as it is firm. His
opinion is their dogma, and their most cherished
maxims of Liberal progress are the first-fruits of his
original teaching. The purest of English Radicals, and
the veteran apologist of the right of man to own some
share in the soil he treads —as well as in the common
gifts of air and sunlight, he is everywhere looked up to,
by progressive minds, as the pioneer of better political
things to come. What, then is the meaning of the
latest rumour respecting him ? By late mail news he is
describe! as committed to an advocacy of the wholesale
emigration of the Irish people to America, and as
having expressed an opinion that, should the British
Government grant a free passage, one-half of the popu-
lation would instantly avail itself of the boon. His
admirers at large may well be startled, and well may
the oppressed millions of the sister island, who have so
long looked up to him for earnest help, thrill with
hopeless amazement at the news. The curse of Irish
landlordism has nowhere found so trenchant a de-
nouncer. The sufferers from Irish distress have never
found a more large-hearted sympathiser. And never
hr>= (hat b i oag but obstinate common sense of the
ihicish public found so vigorous and successful an
educator on Irish questions as the English voter has
met with in John Bright, when before the Liberal
constituencies. Hence the importance of his action
in the present instance. That he, speaking with
all the increased responsibility of a Cabinet
Minister, should thus advocate this wholesale
dismemberment of the people of the Empire is
an incident as startling as it is unique. What a des-
perate remedy! and what a fell disease 1 “ Irish land-
lordism," said the Times, “ stank in the nostrils of
Christendom “We must not forget,” said this same
Mr. Bright not many months ago at Birmingham, “that
in Ireland the men who hold the land hold the homes
and lives of the people." Decreased by emigration,
and wasted by famine —fading almost at the rate of “ a
million a decade," as has been said in the past—lre-
land’s population still numbers some 3,000,000 souls.
Two-thirds of the entire island are held by less than
2000 persons; one-tenth of the whole is waste land.
What do these utterances and these figures mean ? Sim-
ply that a mere fraction of the population, forming a body
odious in the sight of the world, holding at its beck the
homes and lives of the mass of the people, renders a
wholesale exodus of these necessary, in the face of all
the liberalism and progress of the age, and this
we have on the frank and free confession of
the “ purest English Badical of the day.” The friends
of Erin have thrown up their hands. The United
States of America, a democratic republic totally
opposed to all the oligarchical institutions of British
tradition, and the stereotyped “ awful example" of the
average British statesman as an abortion of legislative
error and official corruption, is indicated by a Cabinet
minister —and that minister John Bright —as the fitting
refuge of the oppressed millions of his own immediate
fellow-subjects.
The Tramway Reaction.
The tramways have certainly accomplished all that
was predicted for them. But, unluckily, they have not
stopped at that. (They have accomplished a good deal
that was never promised. They have gathered “ way,"
and there has been nobody in charge with sense enough
to put on the brake. To the the suburbs
the trams have been an immense convenience'; but to
the unfortunate occupants of the streets through
which they pass, they have been, if not ruinous,
at any rate, most injurious. The motors employed
are the noisiest in the world. The streets through
which the trams career are probably the narrowest
that a locomotive engine ever worked through.
But the traffic pays. The Government seem,!dazzled by
this unwonted result of their investments, to have lost
sight of every other consideration. Fortified by an
Act of Parliament, they have treated with disdain all
remonstrance, and have chosen the very time when,
from the tradesmen of one of the narrowest, but at the
same time one of the principal, arteries of traffic a protest
against the injury inflicted by one line of tram has
proceeded, to lay down a second one. An Act of Par-
liament is certainly full of authority, but full authority
may be abused, and opportunity may be turned to ill
account when discretion or temper is lacking. Sir
Henrx Parses loves to domineer whenever
he is not compelled to cringe. He has
ridden rough shod over the remonstrances of the
Oxford-street tradespeople. It remains to be seen
whether he will,have the hardihood to repeat.the affront
when he has also the business-people of George-street to
deal with. As a matter of fact, Sydney has but one street
approximately worthy of the name. Surely we might
preserve this. We have backslums in abundance —
some running parallel with George-street. It would
be no hardship, and in many ways a gain, were a tram
to be run through these, especially if widening had to
be resorted to, blocks cleared away here and there, and
the air and light of heaven made to circulate where now
they seldom penetrate.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ T.C.F.” (Milton): Ton are altogether wrong.
Punch is a comic paper; The Bulletin, as a matter of
logic, is therefore not comic “One of the Candi-
dates": Attended to "Dandy": Capital “Cork-
screw": Will look into the matter "Anon”: Yesj
the pictures in the publication referred to are under-
stood to be drawn by an aboriginal on a damper with
the point of a boomerang “ J.L.D.": There’s noth-
ing very funny in the occurrence in question
"C.F.”: A capital story “H.P.": Thanks. We
have already noticed the matter in question “ Percy
F.”: You have evidently had little practice in versifi-
cation. You should, besides, get an idea before you
commence to write “S.V.E.”: Thanks “C.W.";
We fail to see the joke “Religious": Delicate
ground. It will keep “ Babble”: Good information.
“ Parramatta Verse is evidently not your forte.
"Sel”: Thanks “Badger"; As incorrect ac-
counts of matches have on several occasions been sent
in to us—we do not say by you—we must in future have
the names and addresses of our correspondents
“Scorer”: In such a case, why not send your name?
“ W.H.8.”: Much obliged “Northumberland”:
Glad to hear from you often. However, please write
on only one side of the paper “ XXX.”: If yon have
nothing to say, write on neither side “C.E.S.”: “It
is with verse as with prose: neither is good if it em-
bodies not an idea." “ J.D.8.": Very much obliged.
“ A Queenslander" (Port Darwin); Will attend to
your letter as soon as we have managed to decipher it,
“ G.W.8.”: Very well “W.G.”: We can’t insert
ex-parte statements of that kind. You should, in for-
warding such items, give name and address “Worthy
of Note": Yes, it decidedly is “ W.L."; Will hold
over “Wide Awake”: Yes, we suppose there was
another of the name. Glad to hear from you often
“ K.C.8.”: Far too personal. We haven’t the same
libel law as obtains at Charters Towers “ P. Ryan”:
You’re not a success as a poet. Get some lessons from
Sir “Key": Rather an indefinite question;
however, we’ll look the matter up “X.Y.Z.”:
We shall be glad to receive from you reliable
society news. But it must be sent in all
seriousness, and you must send your name as an
evidence of good faith “ A.G.D.": Incorrect in-
formation concerning pedestrian matches has been
given us more than once. You should send us your
exact address “J.F.H.": Much obliged; next time.
“E.P.F.”; Occasionally malicious and never witty.
In W.P.B.
In the C. of E. Synod, Sydney, the austere Mr.
Clarendon Stuart moved the following resolution :
“ That, in the opinion of this Synod, it is both seemly
and desirable, in true loyalty to the principles and
doctrines of the Church of England, that her ministers
should take no part, directly or indirectly, by their pre-
sence or otherwise, at meetings of a religious character
presided over by dissenting preachers, or called in dis-
senters’ interests." The motion was vigorously at-
tacked by the cynical Dr. Zachary Barry, and rejected,
only eight votes out of 100 being recorded for it.
SOCIAL.
The Princes are at Ballarat.
A bachelors’ ball is on the tapis at Maitland.
The M.R.C. Annual Ball is to eclipse any pre-
vious social effort on the part of the club.
Two fashionable weddings at Dubbo next month.
The parson and priest are engaged for the sth and 6th
July.
The May ball at Perth, W.A., seems to have
been an exceedingly swell affair. Several hundreds
were present.
A private letter received by the Government of
N.Z. states that the flying squadron will proceed from
Melbourne to Auckland and thence to Fiji.
An old and very well known Australian in London
writes thus to a friend in Sydney:—“ You can always
‘ spoti’ a Sydney man half a mile off by the dazzling
brightness of his bell-topper and the newness of his
clothes."
In a certain fashionable suburb of Sydney, two
young ladies, conversing together after a ball, decided
on making confidants of each other. On production of
the lockets containing photographs of the darlings ”
to whom they were respectively ” engaged, it was
discovered that their Abelards were identical, and that
one man had divided his affections between them.
The Princes, it now appears, are by no means
likely to visit Sydney. Small-pox is no respecter of
royalty. The admiral, it seems, attaches so much im-
portance to the late variolic outbreak that he has had
his seamen vaccinated; and as he takes so much care
of his sailors, it’s probable that he will be still more
tender in respect to the future King of England and his
brother. No doubt the Prince of Wales has been con-
suited by cable in the matter.
On Monday next our American citizens will
celebrate by a dinner, &c., at Botany, the 105th anni-
versary of the declaration of American independence.
The Consul, Mr. J. H. Williams, is at the head of the
committee, who will carry out the affair in even better
style than usual. Tickets may be procured from any
member of the committee —Messrs. T. H. Boyd, H.
Shaw, A. U. Bowdoin, C. F. Sheridan, E. A. Little, A.
Torning, E. E. Shaw, and E. H. Williams.
Mr. Norman Wilson, brother of the Waterfordian
Hector of that ilk, was married in Melbourne last week
to the charming daughter of Dr. Gray, the eminent
surgeon and oculist, of Collins-street East. At the
wedding, which was a very grand affair indeed, the cus-
tom was introduced for the first time in Australia of
little boys acting as pages to the bride. The happy
pair are now in Sydney and on several occasions during
the past few days the athletic form of the heavily-
moustached bridegroom and the winsome face of his
bride have been visible on the block.
The “ Princes’ Ball ” at Adelaide drew to-
gether, according to the local papers, the largest and
most distinguished assemblage of fashion and talent
that ever graced a ball-room in that city. The Lady
Mayoress wore a handsome prune velvet silk, trimmed
with white lace. Lady Jervois’ costume was black and
gold. The tout ensemble of the ladies was in nearly all
cases in exquisite taste, one lady, the wife of an ex
M L.C., being attired in a peacock blue silk, with floral
trimmings, whilst another looked charming in a ruby-
velvet dress with white bead trimmings. The Princes
were engaged in every dance up to supper, and seemed
to thorougly enjoy “whirling in the giddy waltz."
They deported at half-past 1 o’clock, and this appeared
to be a signal for a general stampede. Dancing com.
menced at half-past 9, after the formal address to the
Princes had been read and replied to, with a quadrille,
the royal set being a double one, and formed as follows :
The Mayor and Lady Jervois and his Excellency and
Mrs. Smith, vis-a-vis to Prince Albert Victor and Miss
Smith, and Prince George to Miss Jervois; Lieutenant-
Colonel Fitzroy and Mrs. Nankivell, and Sub-Lieuten-
ant Henderson and Miss Morgan, vis-a-vis to Lieutenant
Jervois and Miss Stow, and Chief Justice Way to Mrs.
Morgan. At the ball at Perth, W. A., the opening set was
as follows: —H.E.H. Prince Albert and Mrs. J. F. T. Has-
sell, Lord Scott and Mrs. Loftie, E B.H, Prince George
and Mrs. Bogers, Captain Dnrrant and Miss Hassell,
Dr. Bogers and Mrs. H. Warburton, and Mr. Warbnrton
and Mrs. Knight. At Perth the Princes also retired
a little after midnight. Prince George was on his feet
in almost every dance.
We have received a copy of a very voluminous
Journal, published in Melbourne, which we have
perused with much interest. This paper (we of course
decline advertising it gratis) has on many occasions
deprecated the liveliness which we endeavour to infuse
nto The Bulletin, and spoken much solemn rot about
the proper line for a society paper to take. However, a>
they did not give the public a sample of the crumpled
rose-leaf kind of journalism they professed to advocate,
we commenced to think that, after all, they could teach
us nothing, when lo and behold! their columns are at last
adorned by a “ society ” article, written (unless we are
very much mistaken) by the gifted editor of the pub-
lication. The title of this lucubration, which we are to
take as our model, is “ Melbourne Society,” and we
have no hesitation in saying that it is a very remarkable
production indeed. The sketch is substantially an
account of the adventures of the writer, on the occa-
sion of his being let in (possibly in mistake for the
coat-and-umbrella man) to the house of a rich merchant
on the occasion of a ball; and in the articles are also
embodied the opinions of the “ society ” writer upon
female beauty and blancmange. He tells u», this scribe
whom we are to imitate, how, “ on our way down from
the gentlemen’s cloak-room we casually lift a pro-
nnme from, the table at the toot of the stairs, and
to our delight—but quite as we expected to—an
admirably-arranged order of dances.” He mentions
that out of 22 dances 20 are round; but his “ soul soars
a little nearer heaven when he overhears the junior
host thus delivering himself to a friend—sotfo voce,
• there to be six extras, four during supper and two at
the finish.’ ” He then, this magnificent raconteur, goes
on to tell us that “ the ensemble, for all the world, re-
presents a brilliantly variegated and fragrant bouquet,
out of which peep here and there especially striking
buds in the faces of the Misses Wilkie, the Misses
Moore, the Misses Brush, Miss Beatrice Stephen, Miss
Murphy, Miss Smith, &c , &c. A moment later and
this moving mass of grace and beauty is slowly
melting into the mazes of the Love waltz.” (
Have you had enough of this, gentle reader,
or shall we tell you how he classifies female beauty
by terming one -type “American-Philadelphian,”
and another “ Irish —but of a very aristocratic caste ?”
No: we will not quote any more from our would-be
mentor in polite journalism, but we will simply express
to him our gratitude for the “ lead ’’ he has given us.
It comforts us greatly to know what refined society
writing really is, but somehow we think it will be some
time before we get into the way of it. In the meantime,
we anxiously await another lesson—and trust this
splendid scribe will, as soon as he has recovered from
the effects of his last effort, treat us to another speci-
men of polite writing—on the subject of a St. Kilda
cock-fight, or of his American experiences.
A. Mr. Love got married the other day, aged 60.
It was an old Love affair.
In George-street.i: Sydney, between King and
Hunter streets, there is a barmaid who, facially and in
many other respects, bears a most remarkable resem-
blance to the Princess of Wales—in fact reminds ns
strongly of Alexandra in her best days. This is one for
the Princess, two for Hebe, and four for ourselves.
“Providence,” observed a learned judge, ad-
dressing a prisoner of gentlemanly appearance and de-
meanour who had just been convicted of larceny, “ has
endowed yon with exceptional education ; instead of
which you go about the country stealing ducks.” Mr.
Justice Windeyer, when he sentenced Bechet, must
have been thinking of this story.
A little “ pro.” came off the steamer,
And went to Woods’s for a streamer,
** I want a letter,” said that elf,
“ As tall and farther than myself.”
“Yourself! ” the printer said, with glee.
And then he laughed derisively.
And cried out, in a tore defiant,
“ Our letter tops the tallest giant.”


IMPORTANT
AND
INTERESTING STATEMENTS.
Read, Mark, and Inwardly Digest—Some-
thing for Everybody.
PURITY OF FAMILY MEDICINES OF
THE UTMOST IMPORTANCE.
HOP BITTERS!
ARE THE
Purest, Best, and Cheapest Medicine ever
Made.
THEY ABE COMPOUNDED FROM
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (PO-
DOPHYLLTN ) & DANDELION.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and in
addition contain all the best and most
effective curative properties of all other
Bitters, being’the Greatest BLOOD PURI-
FIER and life and health restoring agent
on earth.
No disease or ill-health can possibly long
exist where these Bitters are used, so
varied and perfect are their operations.
They Give New Life and Vigor to the
Aged and Infirm.
To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary Men,
Ladies, and all those whose sedentary
employments cause irregularity of the
Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or Kidneys, or
who require an Appetiser, Tonic, and mild
Stimulant, these Bitters are invaluable,
being highly curative, tonic, and stimu-
lating, without intoxicating.
No matter what your failings or symp-
toms are, or what the disease or ailment
is, use Hop Bitters. Don't wait until you
are sick, hut if you only feel bad or miser-
able, use the Bitters at once. It may save
your life. Hundreds have been saved by
so doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask yonz Chemist, Druggist, or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your friends
suffer, but use and urge them to use Hop
Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged nostrum, but the pnerest, cheapest,
and best Medicine ever made, and no per-
son or family should be without it.
If yon have nausea, want of appetite,
flatulency, dizziness, and feverish symp-
toms, you are suffering from COSTIVE-
NESS, and HOP BITTERS is the surest
Cure.
If your vital forces are depressed, if you
have a feeling of general lassitude and
weakness, are easily fatigued, perspire
freely on going to sleep, are short of breath
on every slight effort, and have a general
feeling of melancholy and depression, you
are suffering from
General Debility,
and HOP BITTERS remove it all.
If you have a sense of weight or fulness
in the stomach; a changeable appetite,
sometimes voracious, but generally feeble;
a morbid craving; low spirits after a full
meal, with severe pain for some time after
eating; wind rising on the stomach, sour
stomach; vomiting and fluttering at the
pit of the stomach, and a soreness over
it; nausea, headache, or some of these
symptoms, you are suffering from
Dyspepsia*
and HOP BITTERS will permanently
cure you.
If yon have a dry, harsh, and yellow skin,
a dull pain in the right side, extending to
the shoulder blade and pit of the stomach ;
a tenderness over the region of the liver,
and sometimes an enlargment of this
organ; a sense of tightness and uneasiness
in the neighbourhood of the stomach and
liver: yellowness of the eyes; bowels
irregular, generally disposed to looseness;
a hacking or dry cough; irregular appe-
tite; shortness of breathing; feet and
hands generally cold; tongue coated white;
a disagreeable taste in the mouth; low
spirits; blotches on the face and neck;
palpitation of the heart; disturbed sleep;
heartburn ; disinclination to exertion —if
you have any of these symptoms, you are
Buffering from
Liver Complaint,
and HOP BITTERS will cure you.
If you have a complaint which few under-
stand and none will give you credit for—an
enfeebled condition; a goneness throughout
the whole system; twitching of the lower
limbs ; a desire to fly all to pieces, and a
fear that you will; a steady, loss of strength
and health —any of these symptoms show
that you are suffering from that hydra-
headed disease
Nervousness,
and HOP BITTERS will effectually cure
yon.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
WITH
HOP BITTERS,
AND YOU WILL HAVE NO SICKNESS OR
SUFFERING.
Large, square-panelled, amber-colour bottles. White
label with green hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other. Price, ss. No other form, size, or price are
genuine. Am. Hop Bitters Company; Manufactory,
Rochester, N.J., U.S., A.
To be obtained of all Chemists and Druggists.
MONTEFIORE, STEWART, & CO.,
General Agents,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
SATURDAY, JULY 2.
ON THE GROUND.
BARDWELL PARK!
THE SECTIONS BETWEEN BARDWELL
BROOK AND WALLI CREEK,
BT THE ACRE.
SECTION J contains...
K ditto ...
Ii ditto ...
M ditto ...
O ditto ...
P ditto ...
Q ditto ...
£ ditto ...
a. b. r.
... 12 211
... 7 0 2
... 19 3 2
... 21 0 35
... 21 2 0
... 6 026
... 17 3 29
... 8 110
Total 112 1 35
MOEB OE LESS,
CONSISTING OF ELEVATED LAND,
in the Centro, and
RICH MARKET GARDEN LAND
along the
BANKS OF WALLI CREEK.
These are SPLENDID BUILDING SITES on the
ELEVATED LAND towards AENCLIFF.
Portion of the Property contains Fine BUILDING
STONE, and Good Clay is abundant.
MILLS, PILE, AND GILCHRIST
JJAYE received instructions to sell by Auction,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, JULY 2,
AT 3 P.M.,
THE ABOVE PROPERTY, on the following easy
terms:—
20 PEE CENT. CASH DEPOSIT.
The BALAN CE by pro. notes at 3,6, 9, and 12
Months, bearing interest at the rate of 6 per cent, per
annum.
OMNIBUSES WILL LEAVE THE ROOMS
at
2 P.M. on the DAY of SALE
To Convey INTENDING BUYERS to the GROUND.
THE LAND WILL BE PUT UP BOTH IN
LOTS AND SECTIONS,
■o that both large and small Purchasers may be suited.
REMEMBER THE DAT OE SALE,
SATURDAyT JULY 2.
MILLS, PILe7& GILCHRIST,
AUCTIONEERS.
RANDWICK.
NINE PICKEtTvILLA SITES,
portions of the
RICHMOND VILLA SUBDIVISION,
3 MINUTES FROM THE TRAMWAY,
on the
HEIGHTS OP RANDWIOK.
overlooking the
RACECOURSE,
MOORE PARK,
SYDNEY, &c.
EACH LOT has a FRONTAGE of ABOUT 50 FEET,
by a DEPTH of about 150 FEET.
The FRONTAGES are to
COWPER STREET,
RAND WICK STREET,
STANLEY STREET,
COOGEE STREET.
The TERMS will be i CASH * Balance, 3. 6,9,
and 12 months ; INTEREST, 6 per cent.
HAROIE & GORMAN
W
LL SELL by PUBLIC AUCTION, ON
THE GROUND, on
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
9th JULY,
The above described NINE BUILDING SITES, in
the very best position, at RANDWtCK.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS, prepared by Mr. Surveyor
ATCHISON, showing the position of each lot, can bo
obtained at the Rooms.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES; 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STEEET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049,
Directorss
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.U.M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higgins.
T, J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Eubie, Esq.
T. E. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of Insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANY Office m the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BRAY,
Secretary.
L
ARGEST
ESTABLISHMENT
KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
OP
THE
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST.
Pure Ceylon Tea - )
Pnre Java Tea >
Fore Indian Tea )
2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s
per lb.
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3id per lb.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Only standing-room at the Montague-Turner
company’s performance of “ Maritana,” at Brisbane, on
Monday night.
** * *
Professor Rice —who played at Queanbeyan on
Tuesday, 18th June, with Gooma, Bombala, and the
Shoalhaven coast to follow, with India afterwards—is
now agented by Bertie Willison, who, it will be seen
from an advertisement elsewhere, is open to engage-
ment.
** * *
We are sorry to hear that Messrs. Wybert
Beeve and J. L. Hall are at loggerheads on the subject
of the Dramatic Authors Society’s fees, and that the
dispute will, in all probability, furnish work for
the lawyers. Mr. Reeve claims a pound a night for
“Weak Woman” (“ Our Girls ”), while Mr. Hall pro-
duces documents which go to prove that he purchased
the right to that, “ Nemesis,” and other pieces, of the
author’s agents, French and Co., in London. This is
how the matter stands at present, and we would advise
these gentlemen to “ let it be at that.” There is noth-
ing to be got out of a jury of four but vexation at a high
figure, and that can be procured anywhere outside the
precincts of the Supreme Court for nothing.
* # #
On Monday last, Mr. R. Forcey Brion’s cantata
was performed at the School of Arts, Burwood, by the
Western Suburbs’ Musical Society, the principal 'solo-
ists being Mr. W. F. Baker, Mr. A. C. Johnson, and a
lady amateur. The hall was crowded, and Mr. Baker
as Miltiades scored a decided success. In the first part
he sang “Si tu savais ,” and was encored, as was also
Mr. Percival Cooper in the Toreador’s song from
“Carmen.” Much enthusiasm was evinced by the
audience, and the chorus enjoyed themselves immensely.
# # #
We learn that a waggon belonging to St. Leon’s
circus was wrecked through coming in sontact with a
wild steer near Wilcannia, and that the contents —
principally “props.”—were scattered over an area of
two miles. Since this, 2500 juveniles have held private
circuses in the district.
# * #
Mr. J. Rainford has his arm in a sling. After
studying the thousand and one theories of the dramatic
art until very late the other night he went up to bed.
When upstairs, prior to turning out the gas, he pro-
ceeded to light a candle with a box of safety matches.
Suddenly—fizz—bang went the whole concern, and
James’s thumb was carried away as far as Captain
Cook’s statue. Dr. Mackenzie was called iu, and dressed
the wounds. A reward will be given for the return of
the thumb (or any part of it) to the Cambridge Club.
Or any one having a thumb for sale, please apply.
• • •
St. Leon’s circus opened at Wilcannia on Thurs-
day, June 23, to good business. A Chinese clown and
“ Mr. Silvester’s big monkey” are the draws. St. Leon
evidently knows his way to the hearts of the people,
for we read that the monkey’s “ neat way of drinking
out of a bottle was worth a bushman’s while studying.”
We wonder why, for bashmen, from what we know of
them, can generally run rings round monkeys in this
regard. However, these things come from the Weeklt
Walteeus, which, among a variety of other things,
elegantly remarks : —“ The Jap on the wire was as good
as we ever saw. The lady who performed the eques-
trian feats is oi.e of the neatest leapers to be seen on
horseback. The feat of throwing knives and balls, and
keeping them flying through the air, was dextronsly
(sie) gone through. The acrobots (sic) performed their
several parts well. The clown is a host in himself, and
besides the usual comicalities sings a good song.”
* * *
At latest Ashton’s circus had left Kempsey for
Port Macquarie. Their hospital benefit at the former
town realised £3B. Mr. and Mrs. Tolano are now at
Kempsey.
• « *
We believe we are correct in stating that Mr.
Bam. Lazar has disposed of his interest in the lease of
he Theatre Royal to Mr. Arthur Garner,
* ♦ ♦
Miss Kate Arden has taken exception to our
criticism upon the performance of the Countess Zicka,
in “ Diplomacy.” She says that the part was not hers,
but Mrs. Gordon’s, and that she was originally cast for
that of the Marquise Bio-Zares, which is so admirably
played by Mrs. Marion Stammers. This doubtless is
so; but we would point out that we could not, on the
first night of the piece, be supposed to know this. We
do not question Miss Arden’s ability in a general
way, as we have seea her perform more than excellently
in a great many pieces; at the same time, if wo do not
like her so well in Zicka as in other characters, we most
certainly arrogate to ourselves the right of saying so.
Miss Kate Arden has undoubted talent—that much we
■ay with pleasure; and we think that, now we have made
this little admission, Miss Arden should be consoled for a
little sharp criticism in The Bulletin, more especi-
ally as she received so many tons of kudos from the
other papers.
* *
To-night,Jto-night, we would remind
Our readers that the “swells” appear;
And at the School of Arts they’ll find
Two very charming belles appear.
Of this fact “ Jim” did ns advise ;
And “ Jim,” dear children, net ah lies.
* • *
The Beatrice-Ogden company met with much
success at Cooktown.
» * *
We have received a post card from Mr. Ogden
and Miss Beatrice. We shall get a photo, next.
• ♦ *
Some members of the profession may possibly
be interested in an advertisement from Miss Georgina
Smithson which appears elsewhere in our issue of to-
day.
* • •
Dick Thatcher is expected from New Zealand
by the next boat. His family have preceded him.
Dick is evidently a big man in the De Lias country, for
see how the Ltttieton Times grovels before him. It
? a J s : “Ignorance of the niceties of theatrical etiquette
led us yesterday to allude to Mr. Thatcher as the agent
for the company whose season has just terminated
nere. Mr. Thatcher is agent for Mr. Carden and Miss
■Marston Leigh, and has nothing to do with the com-
pany. We humbly apologise for so serious a mistake."
Two giants, Holloway and Walker, each 7ft.
m height and scaling respectively 550 and 500 lbs,
«« recently at Charlotte, North Carolina. We read
that their large and bulging muscles produced a sort
or awe among the spectators, who remained in a state
i l )r^“? ull d silence during the long and terrible strug-
gle. The men clinched and went to work with little
coremony. All efforts on the part of either to throw
the other were fruitless. They tugged until both were
reesmg with perspiration and covered from head to
leet with bruises. Both finally became perfectly en-
raged, and they fell upon each other in what was now
™ j V v ke mortal combat, the ferocity of which
made bystanders move back in terror, no one daring to
tLoTf vi 6 ' ~Slants struck each other with blows
that tell with weight sufficient to make pulp of ordinary
oooies, each thud sounding like destruction. After
er an hour of terrific work, during which, although
+ were covered with cuts and lumps, neither seemed
inn- ?9 oDle exhausted. Walker, by a tremendous swing-
ngoiew, planted his fist with stunning force squarely
Holloway’s throat, knocking him senseless to the
ground, where he lay a moment as if dead. He re-
a?,d ® t( ? od n P again to the fight, when Walker
again disabled him by a similar blow. From the effects
“ ls B ®9° nd faff Holloway did not recover for a long
ime. When he did, at last, he gave up the fight and
n „* a "ay crestfallen and broken-hearted. He subse-
i i?V y refused to show himself, and started on a lonely
Prr.i.o K? me -t say ‘ Ilg he would never show his face again.”
good , wasn't much to look at. The yarn is a
Qdagg Ue ’ aud rem^nds 118 Sala’s story about Colonel
LATE SPORTING.
Aroma v. St. Leonard’s resulted in a victory for
St. Leonard’s by two tries to nil.
Bend Or’s time in the City and Suburban,
mile, carrying 9st., in 2m. 9is., easily puts Australian
records in the shade.
The Oxford and Cambridge cricket match com-
menced on the 27th. The Oxford team went to the
wickets first, and scored 131.
Cook’s River Lome v. Collingwood Clubs foot-
ball match on Saturday resulted in a victory for the
former by one goal and three tries to nil.
The football match, Wanderers v. Redfern, on
the Association Ground, under the English Association
Buies, resulted in favour of the Wanderers by 11 goals
to 2.
The visit of another Australian team, purely
amateur, and embracing Messrs. Massie and Evans,
would, we hear from a reliable source, be well received
in England.
At West Maitland, on Friday, Mr. H. J.
Hough’s Elos was easily beaten by Mr. Joseph Brown’s
Myrtle in a half-mile fluker for £55 a-side. The winner
carried 6st., the loser 7st.
A race, under the auspices of the Sydney Hom-
ing Pigeon Society, came off from Spring wood, 49 miles,
on Saturday last, resulting in a victory for Mr. T.
Musgrove’s Swallow, who homed in 57m.
There was an unimportant prize-fight at Adelaide
on Sunday, which now seems to be recognised all over
the colonies as the proper day for pngs, to carry theory
into practice. The police, as usual, arrived too late.
Cricketers, especially those of our alma mater,
will be glad to hear that Mr. Wilkinson, who is study,
ing medicine in London, played so well in the first
match of the season, that he is very likely to play this
season for Middlesex. His devotion, however, to the
study of his profession, of which it is said he promises
to be an ornament, is so great that he has some diffi-
culty in obtaining practice in the field—of cricket.
The return quoit match, between C. Carroll and
H. Hall, took place at the Coach and Horses on Monday
afternoon. The conditions of the contest were 61 up,
18 yards, clay ends, for a stake of £5O. There was but
little betting, Carroll being the favourite at any price.
After 10 had been obtained by each, Carroll gradually
crept away, and, despite some admirable pitching by
Hall, finished the game 27 ahead—the scores being:
Carroll 61, Hall 34.
By a letter received from an Australian in Lon-
don, who takes great interest in Australian sporting
matters, we learn that Trickett is in splendid buckle,
that he has altered the fittings of his boat materially,
and rows with shorter sculls inboard. He has also dis-
carded the rudder, and rows with his feet encased in
shoes screwed on the stretcher dla Haulan. He must
have been rowing in fixed shoes when he capsized at
Saratoga. The practice is a very dangerous one, and
ought never to be adopted except at regattas, where
assistance is always at hand.
On next Saturday, 9th July, the Melbourne Foot-
ball Club will commence a series of matches with the
New South Wales Association clubs. Any of our
readers who want to see a really good match, without
any of the brutality and roughness usually associated
with the game of football, cannot do better than wend
their way to the Association Cricket Ground, where
these matches will be played. By its performances this
season, the Melbourne club has attained the proud
position of premier club of Victoria, and as many as
15,000 to 20,000 spectators have assembled together to
witness its matches. The arrangements made are —
East Sydney, July 9 ; Sydney, July 13; Combined team
of Sydney and East Sydney, July 16.
If Hop Bitters do not cure yon, try Billiards at
the Coffee Tavern, Pitt-street.—Advt.
On onr editor being asked by a lady what he
thought of her “ little trifle in verse,” and why he didn’t
print it, he remarked that he always considered women
looked better in mnslin than in print. And it was not
nntil she got home to Forest Lodge that she saw it.
An old man at M‘Gregor, lowa, rapidly acquired
£6OOO worth of property. Feeling that he would soon die,
he wrote letters to many of his 'relations at Stockton,
Durham, Eng., soliciting aid.to carry him through a hard
winter. The only response was from a niece, who sent
him £lO out of her earnings as a school teacher, and to
her he left his entire estate.
Mr. Boleslas Henry D’Avigdor, formerly private
secretary to the Executive Commissioner of the Sydney
International Exhibition, and then well known as a man
of fashion, died on Tuesday night, at his lodgings, in
Cumberland-street, in great poverty. He was brother
to a late proprietor of the London Examinee; was, we
believe, once connected wi'h Vanitt Paie ; was of
Franco-Polish extraction, and of the Hebrew faith.
He had had in Sydney opportunities of advancing him-
self such as fall to the lot of few; and, like many a
cleverer man, did not turn them to the best account.
But still there are many who, having known him before
a shadow fell upon his career, will be sorry to hear of
his demise, and the depressing circumstances by which
it was surrounded.
Clairetta.
O, if my heart could only speak,
’Twould utter but one name,,
Every day, and every week.
And every year the same.
" Clairetta,” morning, noon, and'night.
Is echoed far and near;
*• Clairetta,” in and out of sight.
So sweet —so passing dear !
Ah me! that we had never met.
My fair and frolicsome coquette I
Her eyes are bright as morning dew.
And clear as southern skies;
Her lips excel the coral’s hue.
Her cheek the rose outvies.
And, O, the ripples of her hair.
And dimples of her chin!
While only water-lilies dare
To match her dainty chin.
Yet she will ask, in wicked glee,
“ What is there to admire in me ? *’
How first it chanced, I cannot guess—
I kiss her every day;
I ask no leave, she says not “ yes,”
But still she says not “ nay.”
And thus the cup of love I quaff.
As creeps my suit along—
A happy day, a dance, a laugh,
A smile, a sigh, a song.
Its burden doth for ever run,
“ I love you all; I’ll wed you—none 1 ”
G.S.


BRIEF MENTION.
The demand for Chinese vegetables improves.
Low Churchmen. —Mr. Hodgson and Canon
Stephen.
976 Sabbath-breakers at the Museum on Sunday
afternoon.
Grand revival of prize-fights, cock-fights, small-
pox and libel actions.
Papier-mache—the recent local “ wedding in
high life.” We borrow this joke.
Church wardens shouldn’t get drunk —not two
at a time, and in public, anyhow.
What we are dying to see just now is the press-
man who does not wear a Waltham watch.
If you want to test the strength of Mr.
Wither’s muscle,(when you meethim just say—“ Frozen
fish.”
The medical authorities have at length con-
cluded that Constable Cook’s cold id his head is not
small-pox.
There is a white woman in the Melbourne Hos-
pital, who says she was born in Sydney 106 years ago.
A nice white fib.
The 12.15 train from Redfern arrived at Home-
bush the other morning at 1.10. Eight miles in 55min.
is fast travelling.
The brief of each of the Q.C.’s defending
Parnell and party in Dublin weighed lewt. We must
get ours weighed.
The principal qualification for a President of
the Church of England Synod, it seems, is to be “ not
prepared to say."
The coal staiths at Morpeth, only once used,
represent £30,000 “ chucked into the gutter.” “ Yes,
Mr. Speaker; yes.”
“ The Press, the only honest portion of the
community,” was a sentiment duly honored at the
Tenterfleld banquet.
We are informed, on the best authority, that
Mr. Forster, M.P., has agreed to speak to Sir Henry
Parkes —on business
The sign for a shanty on a railway line is,
according to the Dubbo Dispatch, a red petticoat and a
sardine tin turned upside-down.
“The social jealousies of two of the leading
members ” are said to be at the bottom of the want of
unity in the Victorian Opposition.
Is there an anti-adulteration Act in force here ?
If so, it would be well were the police to keep an eye
on the milk sold in certain city restaurants.
The inquiry into the row at Crown-street public
school is completed. Inspector Johnston has only to
send inhis report in order that nothing may be done.
The Sugg street lamp, now coming into general
use in Melbourne, is a brilliant success. It will tho-
roughly extinguish evening flirtations within its radius.
Fact not generally known —That a gentleman
may be dragged to the watch-house for correcting his
dog by throwing a small stone at it, and that he has no
redress.
The Western Grazier has a leader 200 lines
long on ring-barking. From a cursory perusal of this
effort, we are inclined to think that there is a good deal
more bark than “ ring ” about it. This item will please
Waltcrus.
Messrs. Greville and Berdoe are the new pro-
prietors of Sydney Punch. One represents the lemon
and the other the sugar. Nothing is now wanted but
the spirit.
Mr. Alfred Allen delivered a lecture on vaccina-
tion as a preventive of small-pox, on Tuesday last, at
the Protestant Hall. The spread of the disease was, of
course, at once arrested.
The Victorian ministers were invited to take a
trip to Sydney per Sorata. Sir Henry would, of course,
have asked Mr. Berry to sleep in the £3OO bed at the
Colonial Secretary’s office.
Thus the Cooma Express :—“ One of the new
J’s.P. intends borrowing a wig and gown to wear at the
Fancy Dress Ball. A pair of ass’ ears attached to the
wig would be an improvement."
Monstrous frauds have come to light in Cuba.
If the statements and figures can be depended upon,
the Spanish Government has lost almost £4,000,000.
Can there be a Town Hall in Cuba ?
The Otago Witness has an article on “ Hints
about Washing, by Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher." More
interesting by far than this would be: “ Hints about
White-washing, by Mr. Henry Ward Beecher.”
“ Major Smith and a party of twenty members
of Parliament visited H.M.S. Inconstant and H M.S.
Bacchante the other day. Prince Louis of Battenberg,
who was the officer of the watch, explained to them the
guns, &c.” Haw!
The Princes are sending home several turkeys
and tails of kangaroos, which they shot at Campbell
House Station, to the Prince of Wales. The man who
held the kangaroos while the Princes shot at them is to
bethe next C.M.G.
A Town Hall is to be built at Orange, at a cost
of £SOOO. Orange people should get Mr. M. Beath, the
ex-City Architect of Sydney, to fix up things for them.
For real Michael-Angelic ability there’s no one in this
hemisphere to approach him.
The Gayndah (Q.) correspondent of the Bris-
bane Courier writes: —“Our town hall is almost
finished. Too much credit cannot be given to our
Mayor and Aldermen —’’ Well, hang it! what’s the
amount, and how long do they want ?
It is not true, we believe, that the members of
the “ Hanging Committee,” at the Art Gallery, Inner
Domain, have accepted handsome salaries to go to St.
Petersburg. The offer was made under a misapprehen-
sion of the nature of their functions.
We read that “ the people of Kingston, S.A.,
decided to have no demonstration on the arrival of the
Princes, believing they would best show their loyalty
by letting the Princes have a quiet night after their
tedious journey.” What extraordinary people 1
J. B. Patterson, the Victorian Minister of Rail-
ways, said, in referring to Sir Bryan O’Loghlen’s want
of confidence motion, that titles did not frighten him,
and were often gained by cattle-duffing proclivities on
the male side, or loose virtue on the female side.
From “Bohemian” in The Distress:—“l
perceive that our old friend, Edward Trickett, was near
losing his life by drowning at Saratoga. The water is
deeper there than most people are aware of.” And
some people are shallower than most people are aware
of.
The Mudgee Independent says that “ Pro-
fessor Denton, a distinguished Free-thought lecturer,
is leaving America on a tour to the Australian colonies,
where people part freely for mental monstrosities."
It’s just as well for the Mudgee man that such is the
case.
Count Hickey is said to haunt his old dilapi-
dated mill on the Hunter. Though long since stripped
of all its machinery, the echoes of its busiest days
noctumally disturb solitudes. The Count has been
heard to utter but one lamentation—“ What is lucerne
fetching ?”
Attached to the Bishop’s house at Morpeth is
one of the finest orangeries in the northern districts.
In Bishop Tyrell’s time the oranges used to be sent
round in large hampers to the different schools. His
present lordship, it is believed, has ordered baskets for
next season.
It is with matriculation candidates as with
jurors. If you at midwinter place a fellow in a cold
flreless hall, with his feet on stone flagging, for three
hours at a stretch, he won’t work properly. Of course
it may only be the unsuccessful candidate who will
continue to growl.
Mr. Dawson (Wesleyan), of Tamworth, recently
characterised all patent medicines as “ disreputable
shams," and said the reports of their efficacy were
* miserably false.” This is what Mr. Dowson says who
runs a church. We wonder what Mr. Dowson would
say if he ran a newspaper.
He had long loved the flowing bowl. He had
been sampling the wine at a young vineyard, and while
on his way home the earth got up and hit him. His
friend remarked that it served him right—had he read
his Bible he’d have known the consequence of putting
aew wine into old bottles.
At the Small Debts Court, Gulgong, a labourer
recovered £2 damages, for slander, from his employer,
who had accused him of theft. We notice reports of
many such cases in the country press, and the inter-
colonial papers teem with libel reports. A perfect
tidal-wave of libels, iu fact.
“Notice.—The proprietor of the Campbell-
town Herald desires to announce to his subscribers
that he has purchased the right to publish Mr. Marcus
Clarke’s new novel of ‘ The Mystery of Major Moli-
neux.’ ” Marcus is getting on. One time he only used
to write for the Australasian.
Scene on the licensing Bench at the Central.—
First irate J.P.: —“You come here fur the spress purpis
o’ votin’ agin the man.” Second irate J.P.:—lf you say
that you tell a lie—now 1” Chairman: —* Gentlemen,
silence, if yon please—gentlemen.” What sarcasm
could be more withering than this.
From the wreck of the Tararua 50 casks of lime-
juice have been washed ashore, and the question of the
day at Waikawa now is how it happened that all the
Customhouse coast-watchers simultaneously had a
paralytic stroke affecting them all in the same way, by
drawing down the corners of their mouths.
At Gayndah (Q.) a “ demon bowler ” has turned
up. He bowled the left jawbone of a local publican out
of place. We don’t want better evidence of his merits
than that. He must be a terror! Dislocate a publican’s
jaw! Why, even Spoiforth never managed to do more
than break the shank of an iron grass-roller.
The following notice appeared in a Grafton paper:
—“Notice.—All ducks found trespassing in my water-
hole after this date will be destroyed.—T. Ford, Carr’s
Creek.” And it elicited the following reply :
“ bio your hold waterole wele baith for the
futer in quorte pott kreke Mertilder and Marier.”
The S. M Herald, in reporting the discovery
of “ smashing” appliances by Detective Williams,
talks about seven exquisitely executed moulds for casting
half-crowns. Why this rapture? Any Herald re-
porter calling at the Bulletin office will be shown a
real half-crown. We have that much left, anyhow.
There are 37,000 “Knights” in Italy, and the
number is increasing rapidly, through pecuniary con-
siderations paid. Why don’t Sir ’Euery go to Italy ?
He’d be able to associate with his equals there. But
perhaps he is doing the next best thing. We shall soon
Lave 37,000 J.J.P. A “ society” will then be created.
At Melbourne City Police Court. Woman
charged with habitual drunkenness, to arresting con-
stable : " It’s your business to keep hotels shut, so that
we cannot get drunk. Why don’t you ?’’ Constable :
“Ah, you know the back way ” And then she made a
long address, urging that the police should be compelled
to do their duty.
Solemnly says the Penny Phenomenon of
Friday morning last: —“ Mr. Parnell has announced his
intention of taking a second tour through the United
States, which, probably, means farewell to him for a
time.” This is the most logical observation that has
come out of Naz—we mean Barrack-street—for some
time.
Marcus Clarke recently lost his hat, and recover-
ing it by advertisement, thus thanked the gentleman
who returned it:—
“ Hat recovered, festive Niven ;
All forgotten and forgiven;
Tricks are vain and ways are dark,
I bear no malice.—Marcus Clarke.”
As Marcus spent three shillings in advertising his
tile, we are inclined to think that his fugitive hat is
better than his fugitive poetry.
The thirst for gore which impelled the mild-eyed
and dove-like Swan wick to attempt to slaughter the
editor of Brisbane Punch in the main street of that
city in broad daylight, with a horsewhip, has re-
appeared at Charters Towers as a ferocious desire to
murder the diggers’ goats. Swanwick shot one billy,
and was fined £2
Some time ago Mr. L. Fane de Salis wrote in the
S.M. Herald that there “are communes in Switzer-
land where each citizen, so far from paying taxes, draws
an income from the public property, and so should it
be in this colony." In N.Z. they have read this letter,
and the whole country is now howling for Mr. De Salis
to come over and show how it’s done.
George James Gregg, who for many years
served m the police force of New South Wales, has
been released from Pentridge, where he had been sent
for two years on a charge of larceny in February last.
Circumstances have arisen since the trial which estab-
lished the prisoner’s innocence. Someone has evidently
done an egregnous wrong, by George I
Mr. T. Williamson, that nice little lawyer with the
nice bif* voice, says that the Sydney aldermen go out to
Randwick, on Sunday, cockfighting. When this was
read in the Council, the other day, a well-known and
popular city father said, “It is not true —there is not
a particle of truth in it; but ” (with some hesitation
and a beaming smile) “ it’s— it’s a capital idea,"
The Princes Albert Victor and George, and the
other middies, were busy one day on board the Bac-
chante working out the reckoning. They were all
muddled, and none of them could get the thing to come
right. At last one of the bewildered middies looked
across at Albert Victor, and said, “ I say, if this is the
way you’re going on, what a blooming fine king you’ll
make!”
It is stated by the Cincinnati Commercial
that, till lately, the Police Commissioners of that city
were paid _ £4OOO a month as black mail by gamblers.
Cincinnati seems the sort of place where, by honest
industry, and careful saving out of a salary of £2 per
week, policemen can own freehold terraces within two
or three years of entering the “ fooree.” Tarantara!
Tarantara!!
Aaron Waxman is a rich Melbourne money-
lender ; Mark Moss is a still richer one. Marcus Clarke
met the latter, and the twain had a drink. “ I have
found a more liberal fellow than you," said Marcus.
“ Waxman lends me £4OO for twelve months for nothing
—see his sworn evidence in the Supreme Court.”
“ Does he ?” said Moss. “ That must be the reason why
he is so poor."
The Balmain people are going in for grappling
with the larrikin impulses, by providing cheerful recrea-
tion for the young folks of evenings. But isn’t it carry-
ing gaiety a trifle too far to treat the youngsters to
lectures on “Funeral Rites and Monuments?” The
Herald’s report gravely states that the lecture
“ covered a great deal of ground.” A whole cemetery,
we should think.
Captain Knollys, Sir Arthur Gordon’s A.D.C.,
comments strongly on the sale of spirits and’ beer to
the natives in the Taranaki districts. Each hotel, he
says, is thronged day and night by a crowd of Maories,
among whom is a large proportion of women and young
boys, simply loafing and drinking. This should be
cheap at £2OOO. But a good deal depends upon the sort
of jury impaunelled.
The “ Watersof Jordan ” are scarcely a circum-
stance compared with those of the Punui River, N Z.
Eewi, the great Maori chief, on his way to the
Hikurangi meeting, fell down a precipice 70 feet deep,
from which he was taken up insensible. Eewi, when he
recovered consciousness, asked to be dipped in the
Punui river, and afterwards found that he had recovered
the use of his left arm, which had been for some time
previously paralysed.
Repress your smile at this little item —if you
can. The court was sitting, and in the middle of a
case a policeman handed to a well-known J.P. (famous
for his interest in the licensing question) a large oblong
envelope. Then the magistrate started and tore it open,
with delightful anticipation beaming in his counte,
nance. But his joy was short-lived. It was not the
'oag-wished for bil'et, but—lie back now—only a
reminder about the water-rate. Fact.
“Prisoner, your case was discussed last night
in the parlour of my brother magistrate’s hotel,
so you are committed for trial, the evidence bearing
out a prima facie case, and anything you have to say in
your defence will be used in evidence against you. I
refuse to hear anything more unless you plead guilty!”
This is what a justice said up Goulburn way the
other day. And yet Sir Henry Parkes goes about say-
ing he can’t find suitable men for P.M.’s.
The poet Phil. O’Carroll has a prose rival in
Christchurch (N.Z ), who introduces his meat with
moral lessons. His name is Dorn well, and he would
adorn well any slaughter house. He remarks:—
“ Poverty goes hand in hand with early marriages. No
nuptial ‘ tying ’ should be allowed unless ‘ he ’ or ‘ she ’
has a comfortable freehold (unencumbered), is of good
physical proportions, healthy, and truthful.—Beef and
mutton from lid. per lb.—A. Dornwell.”
The late Archbishop of Goa, a native of
Madeira, died so poor that he did not have sufficient
money to pay his funeral expenses. He was probably a
go-a-head sort of prelate, and spent all his income in
trips to the “ Continong ” to improve his health. Out
here it is considered infra dig. for any disciple to die
worth less than £50,000. What kind of a show has the
Goa bishop for a seat on the Golden Shore when he
arrives without a single red to pay for Charon’s ferry ?
The game of bowls as played here is intensely
interesting, but a trifle too exciting for persons pos-
sessed of a delicate nervous temperament. In order to
become a first-class player it is necessary to wear
scarlet suspenders, and when the game is in full swing
the attitude of the man who bowls is highly suggestive
of an old goose endeavouring to hatch a clutch of blue
metal. A square of matting is provided for the players
to sit on, and the fattest man of course has the softest
seat.
There was a “high” old time among the
“Micks” at Stannifer the other night, and as they
warmed to their work sticks, empty bottles, &0., went
round pretty freely Presently, Barney, anew arrival
from the ‘ ould sod,’ picked up a big quartz rock and
* druv it fair agin the head ’ of one of the crowd. As
quartz will often do, it (the rock) broke into a hundred
pieces. Barney walked away, muttering, “ Faith, an’
there’s not a shtoane in Australy fit to sbtroike a man
widl”
Very funny is the law;
’Fore its terrors all must pale:
1 G. R. Dibbs declared before
Those costs he’d pay he’d go to jail.
He went to jail and made, they say.
At turning quite a famous name;
And now, behold, he’s got to pay
Those costs of Shepherd’s all the same.
Well may Johnny laugh and say
" The law’s a friend to me—hoo-ray I”
At the Maitland District Court, last week,
Judge Dowling observed that a person who refused to
pay for his paper ought to be made to pay double.
Good boy, Judge! Them’s our sentiments to the last
degree. There was a time when a bad debt or so
wouldn’t break any journalist, but since libels became
so popular, it takes us all our cash to Imyfi. fas. and
rule nisis, and compos mentis, and other necessaries of
editorial life. Send your address, Judge ; you’re on our
free list now.
“ The college had a chequered lot.
From lowness of exchequer;
But since this last big cheque we’ve got.
There’s nothing now to check her.”
That is a verse of the now famous 'Melbourne Uni-
versity epilogue. Ye gods! Is it not—
Immense! superb! delicious ! grand!
Most humourous! —divine ?
Entrancing ! sparkling ! brilliant! and
Sur tout —e-le-phan-tine ?
Captain Raymond’s invention of phosphorised
oats has practically stamped out the rabbit nuisance in
Victoria, and saved scores of Western land owners
from beggary. It was the other day proposed to testa-
monialise the captain, and a meeting on the subject
was convened. The result was “an attendance smaller
than the number of requisitionists, and a resolution
that the Government be recommended to compensate
Captain Raymond.” The Berryites, after all, can’t be
much meaner than the Victorian squatters.
There is a tram official who has always energeti-
cally lectured the public on the impropriety—and ille-
gality—of entering cars in motion. The other morning,
as the tram swept through Belmore Park, he tried to
get a seat; but the pace was too hot for him. Instead
of going “ with ” the tram, he went straight “ at ’* it,
like a bull at a gate, for he hadn’t graduated as a eon-
ductor. His spotless white “ tile " was Juggernauted ;
his coat was torn, and the heel of his right boot taken
off. He now says he’ll carry into practice the theories
he has so long preached to the passengers.
This, according to Mr. George Cornwell, the
well-known” contractor, is how the quarantine regula-
tions are enforced on the border. Mr. Cornwell says
that after the train stopped at Albury the other day, a
head was poked in at the window, and a stentorian
voice shouted out, “Anybody here got the smallpox?”
Numerous replies equally stentorian of the monosyl-
lable “No!” satisfied the illustrious functionary, and
with a gratified 11 All right!” he passed on from carriage
to carnage, and having gone through this absurd farce
no doubt felt he had done his duty by the colony and
earned his salary. Surely Mr. Cornwell isn’t serious in
this matter.
The disgust among the South African colonists
of English race, at the peace with suzerainty made with
the Boers, seems to be increasing. On the 29th March
a meeting was held in Newcastle, and a committee
appointed to collect subscriptions for a “civil war
fund,” to be applied to an armed attack on the Boers.
One gentleman gave £1000 to the fund. It’s only the
English Englishman who can stand 'being kicked by the
Dutchmen. The African John Bull doesn’t relish it,
and—(kind comp., please print it big)—THE BOERS
DECLINE CO GIVE UP OUR CAPTURED CANNON.
What a lot of prestige now attaches to the British
Lion in the very land from which he took his emblem!
Listen to this. One gentleman, during the
height of the small-pox scare, met another gentleman
at an hotel in York-street, and after getting into con-
versation, the first (although they were strangers) of-
fered to give the other a lift in his cab, which was outside.
The other accepted and elected to be dropped at Hun-
ter-street. When the vehicle stopped, the gentleman
got out, and, shaking hands with the cab-hirer, said :
“ May I ask the name of one who has extended to me
so much courtesy?" “Certainly," replied the other.
" My name is Dr. Dansey, and I am now going my
rounds as health officer.” And the way the other man
tore into the chemist's to be fumigated was a caution.
The Redfern Times means well, but we think
the editor, in inviting poetic contributions from the
youthful Redfernites, is guilty of much mistaken kind-
ness. In a recent edition a party by the name of TLim
hammers out nine stanzas (one for each Muse) on the
“ Mongolian Invasion." * Here is the first one
“ Australia! the home of the true-hearted Briton,
We ne’er will disgrace thee, thy dignity lower;
Thy waters so fair shall ne’e- be o’er-ridden (sic)
By a race of Mongolians thy people abhor.” (sic)
Now, attention, sweet bard :
Harmonious Ham! if your poor “ feet ”do hobble,
You certainly sing with a greid deal of feeling
But, think, in the time that it took you to cobble
This verse, allthe shoes that you might have been heeling.
Five-and-thirty cockfighters have .been sum.
moned at West Maitland. The cases will be heard
to-day. Seven prize birds, including two reared by a
wall-known breeder, were captured by the police. A
well-known parson resident at Maitland hints that an
active functionary will himself also be prosecuted.
It appears that when the functionary in question
arrived on the ground, he found several cocks in a bag,
and, thinking that they might smother, he emptied
them into the pit. The birds, of course, immediately
began to fight. The interloper, himself a breeder of
fighting birds, naturally became excited, and yelled out
(so it is alleged by his enemies) that “ he’d lay a fiver
that the white beat the red.” There is great excite-
ment about the affair in Maitland, where cock-fighting
is regarded by many persons as a legitimate and
national pastime.
For some time past war bas been raging in one
of the Government offices between several of the civil
servants, which will have a finale in the Water Police
Court to day (Thursday). It appears that for some
time past a number of articles, the property of a stal-
wart native of the Emerald Isle, have disappeared in a
most unaccountable manner. His well-known reputa-
tion as a “ bruiser ” made his victimisers unusually
careful, but a few days ago he was, it is said, fortunate
enough to pounce upon a fellow-employe in the act of
annexing his pipe—by way of a joke, of course. This
was more than the fiery Celt could bear, so he at once
obtained a summons against the offender. For this he
was duly invested with the “ancient and honorable
order of the sack ” by the head of the department. It
is said that some startling disclosures are forthcoming
as to how the Government stroke is worked in the
offices referred to. Both parties have engaged able
counsel and the proceedings at the W.P.C. are expected
to be unusually lively.
There are some people so constituted that they
would grumble if they were left a legacy of £150,000
a year, or had just been appointed Czar of All the
Russias, and these persons are ever ready to take a
wrong meaning out of the best designed intentions.
One of this class recently wrote to the Bingi News.
complaining of the larrikinism of what he calls “ a grey-
headed old sinner and a cowardly reprobate." And
what has this fearful person done to deserve all this
abuse? Nothing—absolutely nothing. He simply has
a taste for hardshell walnuts; and in order to relieve
the monotony of the Bingi church service, he has a
playful habit of putting these nuts on the floor, and
crushing them with the heels of his hobnailed boots.
Last Sunday he brought a convert with him, in the
shape of a big brindled dog,—and, placing the dingo’s
fore paws on the front of his pew, he requested him in
a firm tone to “ hold up, and say his prayers.”
And yet, simply because this gentleman indulges his
playful fancy one day, and endeavours to spread the
good cause amongst the animal kingdom on another,
he is publicly denounced as “ a grey-headed old
sinner! ” This would damp the ardour of even Peter
Campbell.
Messrs. Joubert and Twopeny are pushing on
the erection of the Adelaide Exhibition building, which
will be three feet longer than the Melbourne main
building, but narrower.
A certain soft-goods firm in Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, which is celebrated for being able to cut
under all its compeers, employs Chinese as sewing
machine operators.
Mr. Clement Scott’s lines “ The Death of the
Midshipmite,” an extract from which was recently
given in The Bulletin, have been set to music by Mr.
Percy Fitz-Stubbs, of West Maitland. The music will
shortly be published.
In her recent book on Fiji and the South Seas,
Miss Gordon Cumming relates how a stout missionary
was stroked admiringly down the sides by an ancient
cannibal, who murmured longingly, as he felt the adi-
pose tissue, "Oh! how fat you are 1”
Among the list of 180 leading banking institu-
tions recently published, the Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney is shown as the most flourishing,
excepting the Whitehaven Joint Stock Bank, which,
with a capital of only £45,000, has declared a dividend
of 30 per cent.
Deportations to Siberia, which are decreed by
the Third Section, or _ Secret Police (a body under the
Czar s personal direction), were five times more numer-
ous during the reign of the late Czar than under the
galling system of Nicholas, who is admitted on all hands
to have been the most cruel despot and the most bloody
tyrant that has sat on any European throne during the
last century. Thousands are sent from Eussia to
Siberia annually without trial.
From the statistics of 300,000 officially reported
cases, it appears that suicides are more frequent in the
spring and early summer, and between the hours of 6
and 12 in the dav. Protestants commit suicide more
frequently than Catholics, and Catholics than Jews;
among Mahommedans suicides are very rare. Four
times as many men commit suicide as women. The
causes of suicide in southern countries are chiefly love
and poverty; in northern countries, drunkenness; and
in central Europe, ennui, shame, and the fear of punish-
ment.
The Melbourne Leader thus compares the
statistics of Sydney and Melbourne Exhibitions, which
were open about the same time and almost at the same
prices. Sydney—Total attendance, 1,045,898, of whom
850.000 paid for admission; Melbourne, 1,309,349, and
965.000 respectively. Sydney Exhibition (temporary
building) cost £267,000, as against Melbourne (per-
manent) £256,000. “ Our superior building was £lO,OOO
cheaper, and by the sale of tickets we made £6OOO more
than they did, so that ours was certainly themore profit-
able venture.”
This is how they satirise people in Rockhamp-
ton “ Wanted, for a Mercantile House in Queensland,
a respectable, sober man, with good references; must
be competent to keep a correspondence in three lan-
guages. and understand the breaking of horses, and be
an experienced drover; he must have a general know-
ledge of the pastoral districts of Queensland, and be a
good draftsman. A knowledge of mechanics, printing,
and chemistry required, as well as of office routine.
Office hours, from 9 am. till 12 30 p.m. Apply,
‘ X.Y.Z.,’ office of this paper.” And again :—“ Wanted)
as Junior Clerk, Groom and Boots to a Merchant, a
smart boy, about 16, wages, 7s 6d a week. Apply,
Grindstone, Post Office.” We quote from the Rock-
hampton papers.
The following is extracted from a political squib
extensively circulated at home prior to the departure
of last mail:—
“ SELLING OFF I EETIEING FROM BUSINESS j
Freeholds, Leaseholds, Reversionary Interests, House-
hold Effects and Shares.
MR. W. E. GLADSTONE
Will sell by Auction, at the Boer’s Head Hotel, on
Saturday, the Ist day of April next, at noon (Greenwich
Mean Time), the whole of the vast
LANDED ESTATES,
Goods, Chattels, and Effects of
JOHN BULL, Esq.,
who is retiring from business on account of advancing
age and ill-health, induced by recent losses in the
Transvaal Venture, comprising Three Kingdoms (United
or otherwise), One Empire, One Dominion, Forty-Eight
Colonies, and One Suzerainty, situate as undermen-
tioned, and containing upwards of 8,982.177 square
miles (with a total Rent Roll of £174.775.000) of good
Freehold and Leasehold Land, Government Offices,
Residences, and Missionary Stations. Diamond, Gold,
Silver, Coal, and other mines in full operation. One
large Public House known as • The Lords and Com-
mons.’”
TO A RETIRING HUMOURIST.
Oh, fare thee well, sweet Punch, of souls the joy!
Thou, who at Humour’s shrine hast burnt the taper—
Though few have seen thy jokes, you know, “dear boy,”
The reason is, that so few saw thy paper.
Adieu! thou splendid humourist, adieu!
We press thy hand, and on thy head we pat thee:
We have not often laughed with thee, 'tis true.
But, oh, the million times we have laughed at thee!


Grand Handicap Tonrnament to take place
shortly. Prize rained at £25. Coffee Tarem, Pitt-
street.— Adyt.
Hare you seen the Coffee Tavern Billiard Boom,
Pitt-street ?— Advt.
The San Francisco News Letter has paid
30,000 dollars in libel cases.
It is reported that a brigade of 3000 Chinese
fought well for the Chilians in the late war.
Biisland Bros., of Glasgow, have the largest
bakery in the kingdom. They bake daily 800 bags of
flour.
The Hon. Wm. Campbell’s Clare stations have
been sold to Messrs. Stanbridge and Waugh for
£214,000.
Mr. D. Cleary, of Goulburn, says the Southern
■Argus, has in his possession some 500 rats, of almost
every color.
Tonr friend can be onred of deafness by using'.
Garmove’s improved artificial ear-drums. Send at
once for book and testimonials free, for stamp. Fresh-
man Jones and Co., sole agents, 338 George-street*
Sydney.—[Advt.]
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Victoria Amateur Turf Club Meeting July 1.
Rockhampton Jnly 6, 7.
Hay July 12.
Newcastle (Special) July 12.
Qonnedah July 13.
Clarence River July 13,14.
Deniliquin i July 19, 20.
Maryborough (Q.) ;.July 21, 22.
Peak Downs Turf Club July 21,22.
T.R.C. Steeplechase Meeting July 23.
Jerilderie Jockey Club Meeting July 27.
Geelong R.C. Winter Meeting July 30.
Bchnca Annual Meeting An gust 4.
Ballarat T.C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville August 11, 12.
Sydney TattersalTs August 13.
Gympie August 24, 25.
Hawkesbury R.C. Annual August 25, 27.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting September 3,6, 8,10.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting October 15.
Kensington Park Meeting October 22.
Victoria R.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer meeting December.
AQUATICS.
Hearn v. White, for Championship of New
Zealand, and £lOO aside July.
J, Laycock v. H. Solomon, £5O July 2.
North Shore R.C.—Junior Double Sculls July 2.
Amateur Sculling Race.— _ , „
Mr. A. Finlayson’s Trophy July 23.
Sydney Rowing Club Regatta July 80.
Boyd v. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Ross August.
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Rush v. Laycoek September.
Walker Whisky Trophy September.
N.S.W, Rowing Association Regatta October 15.
FOOTBALL.
University v. Wallaroo July 2.
New South Wales v. Victoria, at Melbourne July 1.
PEDESTBIANISM.
O'Connor v. Everley, 1 mile, £4O, Botany July 2.
J. Worton v. C. Brennan, 48 hours’ go-as-you-
please, £lOO, Grenfell July 2.
Oddfellows’ Handicap, Richmond July 16.
Modern High School Athletic Club July 22.
COURSING.
New South Wales Club (Woodstock Meeting)...July 1, 2.
Australian Club (Shlfnal Plate) July 8.
Victoria Club - July 13.
Waterloo Cup July 15.
New South Wales Champion Stakes August 5.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) August 11.
Victoria Club August 18.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Prodigious, the steeplechaser, is dead.
J. C. Laycock did a flutter for his friends on
Friday last.
Lowlander and Result have been scratched for
the Melbourne Cup.
Welcome Jack is an uncertain starter for his
Spring engagements.
The S.A.J.C. refused to allow Mr. P. Glenister
to ride as an amateur.
Mr. R. S. Brown has been appointed secretary
to the Australian Trotting Club.
The Intercolonial Football Team defeated the
twenty-fire players by three goals.
The intercolonial football match takes place on
Friday next, on the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
Melbourne v. East Melbourne, on Saturday,
resulted ;in a win for the former by 4 goals to 2.
Burwood v. Parramatta, at Parramatta, resulted
in a win for the local team by one try to nothing.
The Wallaroos play on the Association Ground
on Saturday, when the Kugby game will hare a fair trial.
Mr. Charles Cowper handed oyer to the treasurer
Of the Laycock Testimonial Fund, on Thursday last,
oyer £65.
Jupiter Pluyins spoilt the meeting held in
Adelaide by the South Australian Jockey Club in honor
of the Koyal Princes. ,
Rugby y. Second Redfern, on Moore Park, on
Saturday afternoon, resulted in a win for Bedfem by
one goal and a try to one goal.
The late Eastwood! pack of hounds is being
collected, and a grand dingo hunt is arranged to take
place at Wallsend on 28rd July.
At the Rocky Mouth Raees, on Wednesday, the
22nd June, Fieldfare was first in the Trial Stakes, but
was disqualified for short weight.
Mr. W. A. Long has formed a private training
establishment at Warwick Farm, near Liverpool. Two
excellent tracks have been made.
A select party from town greatly enjoyed a
cock-fight at a secluded part of Middle Harbour last
Sunday The “foorce” were just a little too late.
At the Bendigo J.C. meeting, on the 22nd June,
Prince Imperial came in first in the Telegraph Stakes,
but was disqualified for being entered over age.
Mr. J. Finnie left Brisbane on Saturday for
Eockhampton, with the racehorses Sydney, Eclipse,
and Lady Lome, to fulfil their engagements there.
Wallaroo y. Balmain, on the Park, on Saturday,
was the best match this season, and resulted, after a
close contest, in a victory for Wallaroo by one goal to
nil.
Mr. P. 6. Dixon, of Victoria, is open to match
f llB , horse Wanderer to trot any of the American
trotting horses three or four miles for any sum up to
The Victorian Carltons won every match in
Adelaide during their recent visit. They netted profits
tp the extent of £lOO, which was handed over to the
Adelaide charities.
There was to have been another little “ mill ”
this time at Cook’s Eiver— on Sunday morning last,
rtowever, one of the boys didn’t turn up. He probably
had heard of Killan.
Nine nominations for the Waradgery Handicap,
ten for the Town Plate Handicap, fourteen for the
members’ Cup, to come oft at the Hay Jockey Club
midwinter Meeting on July 12.
The general impression in r football circles with
mierence to the coming intercolonial match is that the
will run rings round our champions—not-
witnstanding the presence of the only Mac.
p The probable number of starters for the
i Vl' Handicap and Club Handicap will be
about 12 and 16 respectively. The Barber, Kildare, and
rne -Drummer have been scratched for all engagements.
But the Victorian Football team may not be so
a fter all. According to names, two of the players
constitute a Stifle Goer. In the interests of the wounded,
a carter and a Walker are included, and doubtless
majer will be captain.
r Th® four-oared race between the Hawthorn
an( f Kew High Schools resulted in a win for
awthorn by three lengths. A protest was entered
fsmnat the winners for having taken a wrong course,
but was afterwards withdrawn.
i i 4. is an art which has, so far, been
Plae ™ Australia. Professor Miller has a
hone *?P “ his gymnasium for teaching it, and we
tra.irJ'u his appeal for patronage will not be disre-
-5 uea by the youthful cultivators of muscle.
The Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting, Wednesday,
22nd Jane. Hardies: Rataplan 1, Zanga 2, King of
Tramps JJ- Telegraph Stakes: Gonzago 1, EE 3.
Steeplechase; Trumpeter 1, Collingwood 2. Selling
Hardies i Union Jack Gardiner 2, Barracoota
3.
The following represent Victoria in the inter-
colonial football matchJ. Wilson, W. Hall, A. Robert-
son, F. Thompson. Aitken, J. Adams, M'Kenzie, Stifle,
Goer, H. Wilson, Conway, Trayze, Tindall, A. C. Walker,
Powell, J. M. Carter, J. Young, J. Gibson, Q. F. Major,
and C. Thomas.
The Union Football Club played the Victoria
Club a return match on Moore Park, on Saturday, and,
notwithstanding that the latter was strengthened by
members of other clubs, the game resulted in a draw
in favour of the Union, H. Cooper having obtained a
disputed touchdown.
The coursing at Diggers’ Best (Vic.), on Satur-
day, resulted as follows :—Rupert Stakes: A. Davis’
Grand Flaneur beat W. R. Thomson’s Tamerlane. West
Bonrke Plate : Fanning’s Faultfinder beat RounseveU’a
Christmas Gift. Prince Albert Stakes: Fanning’s Fas-
cination and Clark’s Dove divided.
The Adelaide Hunt Club on Saturday had a
genuine bit of sport. The hounds came to a check and
an attempt was made to “cast back” for the right
scent, the hounds having been foiled by their viewing a
dog. The canine chase took thence across the country
for a couple of miles add got to cover in a cottage.
James Riley, the sculler, recently had a narrow
escape from diowning while testing a new shell on the
Hudson. Bis boat capsized, and his head was under
the water some moments before he could free himself
from the foot-straps. We suppose that this is how
Ned Trickett nearly drowned himself the other day.
It is proposed in' New Zealand to send a repre-
sentative football team to Sydney in July, playing three
days here, one day at Newcastle, and one day at
Bathurst. Correspondence has been held for some
time past with the secretary of the Southern (N.S.W.)
Union. At latest, meetings of. footballers were being
held in N.Z. towns.
There is a “ half-back ” in the Wallaroos who
has never been known to get into a “scrimmage.”
Heedless of the yells of the captain (in a powerful
lower G) he keeps clear of contused eyes and san-
guinary noses, and preserves his fresh complexion and
symmetrical form and features for the afternoon
feminine blockists.
At the conclusion of the Wallaroo match, on
Saturday, the following casualties were reported :—F.
W. Pligg, contused optic; A. C. Logan, ditto; T.
Higgins, braised forehead; and H. Fligg, braised
cheek-bone. The club ought to follow the example of
a certain up-country club, which can (boast of its
" honorary surgeon.”
Lower Clarence Turf Club Races, Rocky
Mouth, Wednesday, 22nd June. Maiden Plate : Espe-
rance 1, Caire-a-Wheen 2. Trial Stakes; Boliva 1.
Members’ Cup: Risk 1, Zaneo 2, Comet 3. Club Handi-
cap : Cedric 1, Booyung 2, Butterfly 3. Hack Race;
Beetle 1. Novel Handicap: Fireaway 1. Helter
Skelter: Bridesmaid 1.
The 120 yards race, for JJ2S aside, on the Asso-
ciation Ground on Saturday, between J. Martin and J.
Morgan, the latter receiving three yards start, was won
by Morgan by his allowance in about 13 seconds. There
was a good deal of wagering, and likewise dissatisfac-
tion, which culminated in a fracas in town—net
amongst the winners, of coarse.
The football match on the Association Ground,
next Saturday, between the University and Wallaroo
Clubs, should be a close contest. The ’Varsity play a
fast game, and pass the ball well—as was observed in
their match against the Qlenheads. The Wallaroos
will have a better team than usual, and their heavy
play should make them formidable antagonists.
An unfortunate accident has befallen Kelley, the
English ex-champion oarsman, who accompanied
Trickett to the United States in order to train him for
the approaching rowing contests at Saratoga. While
Trickett and Eelley were practising with the gloves, the
latter accidentally fell and broke his leg. Trickett’s
ill-luck has certainly followed him from England.
The scale of weights in the big handicaps is
considered as rather light. This is, perhaps, owing to
the fact that there are, after all, but few racehorses
amangst the dark ones. The light weight jockeys will
hold a carnival, but the heavy riders will be out in the
cold unless they go in for hurdle and steeplechase
riding, or weight for age races, which bring but few to
the post.
What is to prevent old Strathearn from coming
out of his shell this time and, for the nonce disre-
garding his infernal penchant for running second to all
sorts of times, carrying off the Metropolitan T If a
line can be taken by previous running, the only horse
to beat him is Hesperian, who looks on paper able to
win the three great events. We like his chance for tke
Melbourne Cup.
Mr. James Pratt, of Melbourne, has been ap-
pointed slipper for the Woodstock meeting of the New
South Wales Coursing Club. He is highly recommended
by Victorian sportsmen, and has offered to slip for the
meeting at £5 a day and expenses from Melbourne. He
added in his letter that if he gave satisfaction he would
remain in New South Wales, as there were too many
slippers in Victoria.
Hotham and East Melbourne had a quarrel, in-
stead of a football match, on Saturday. The former
team wanted to play with Barnes, to whom objection was
made. Hotham would not give way, and the match did
not take place. The 10,000 spectators tried unsuccess-
fully to get the admission money back, but the East
Melbourne Club refused to part, and their treasurer got
a hustling from an excited crowd.
Earl Clanwilliam and a distinguished party,
including several ladies, were treated to a splendid
exhibition ef rough riding ac Richmond (Melb.) Police
Barracks the other day. Five buckjumpers wore
mounted, and though they each worked with a will, no
one of them succeeded in displacing its rider. A
couple of the horses fairly squealed with rage on finding
that they couldn’t shift their ** occupants."
There is reason to believe that Triokett, not
satisfied with his defeat by Hanlan when in bad form,
will accept the general challenge recently issued by the
latter. We shall not be surprised if we hear shortly by
cable that Trickett has again been matched against
Hanlan in the spring, with a start if possible—if not, a
level three mile race. By the Californian mail we hear
that Triokett has challenged any oarsman in America,
bar Hanlan, to row three miles.
According to the Clipper, Hanlan’s meaning,
when he recently expressed his willingness to give
Courtney and Smith fifteen seconds and Boss ten
seconds in five mile races, was misconstrued. Instead
of allowing them to start that number of seconds ahead
of him, ha intended that the allowance should be de-
ducted from the time which he (Hamlan) took to row
the distance. Oarsmen will readily perceive the
difference between the real and supposed terms.
We have talked a great deal about sending
Australian horses to England. ■' But,” says a
Melbourne writer, " Messrs. White, Tait, Wilson, and
DeMestre will have to keep their eyes open, or they
will have the mortification of witnessing a ’Yankee
flyer ’ pulling off the Melbourne Cup of 1882. Such a
contingency is by no means improbable when viewed in
the light of recent events on the other aide of the
equator. Brother Jonathan’s motte is— ‘ Forward.’ ”
Owing to the uncertainty of the weather, the
Modern High School Athletic Club sports, which were
to have taken place on 24th June, on the Association
Ground, have been postponed till 22ud July. The
ground was visited on Friday by a large number of
persons who were not aware of the postponement, and
the boys good-naturedly arranged an impromptu pro-
gramme of sports to prevent disappointment to the
visitors, and to give a "line” to the events of the
coming meeting.
An Auckland wire says that Dr. Weirek, who
was chiefly instrumental in getting together the mag-
nificent stud of Leland Stanford, the Californian rail-
way king, has engaged the whole of one side of the
after deck of the Zealandia on her next voyage from
San Francisco, for the accommodation of his horses.
As a first instalment he brings three mares, six stallions
and one gelding, all of the purest blood. The first
stallion, a magnificent animal, by Young Vermont, has
a record of 2m. 26seos.; the second, a bay, is able to do
a mile in 2m. 40secs.; the third, a chesnut, at three
years old trotted a mile in 2m. 15}secs. Dr. Weirek
takes his horses to Sydney and Melbourne.
Football was triumphant on Moore Park on
Saturday, three important matches being played there.
The University gave the Qlenhead a gruelling at a fast
game. The Wallaroo and Balmain had a most exciting
and close contest, which ended in favour of Wallaroo.
The practice match for the coming Intercolonial created
but little interest; the crowd evidently preferred to
watch the Bugby game. It is, perhaps, better to see
the latter game played well than the Victorian game
played indifferently.
In a recent northern race-meeting a certain
horse was declared to carry 51bs. overweight. He ran
a dead heat, and in the run off his owner wanted to
take off the 51bs., to which the owner of the other
horse objected, and the stewards did not know how to
decide. Eventually, they did the correct thing, in
deciding that the horse should carry the extra weight.
The case is obvious, for had he in the dead heat, been
found short of the declared overweight, would he not
have been disqualified ?
In one of our large engineering establishments
about a week ago, a sliding seat was being made to the
order of a well-known bookmaker—for use, it is said, in
a big event which comes off shortly. Among those who
went to see it was Laycock, who was under the impres-
sion that he was about to be shown a new notion. But
when Elias was introduced to the seat ha rubbed his
eyes, observed that it was a copy of one he had brought
from England, and said he wondered who had been kind
enough to make a drawing of his importation.
The publication of the weights for the three big
events has given but a slight impetus to speculation.
In the double event betting, Spinningdale and Mon-
mouth are fancied for the Derbies; Hesperian and
Wandering Jew for the Metropolitan, and Hesperian,
Zambesi, and Savanaka for the Melbourne Cup. Con-
sidering the weights, and judging by previous running,
Hesperian, Wandering Jew, Strathearn, Gipsy Cooper,
Zulu, Etna, and Milbrodale are best in for the Metro-
politan, and Savanaka, First Water, Lord Bnrghley,
Zambesi, Wandering Jew, Hesperian, Waterloo, anc
Wheatear for the Melbourne Cup.
A race from Goulburn, under the auspices of
the Sydney Homing Pigeon Society, took place on Satur-
day week, and resulted in a victory for Spotted Tom
the property of Mr P. Allen, of Newtown. He covered,
the distance, 132 miles in 134 minutes. The second
bird. Freeman, the property of Mr. J. Kellick, did the
distance in 140 minutes. On Saturday next a race takes
place from Springwood. This society proposes to have
a race open to all comers, the prizes being a handsome
gold medal for the winner, and a silver one for the
second bird, the race to take place on 28th July, from
Mittagong—a distance of 77 miles.
In these days of athletic club meetings and
amateur regattas it is well that the attention of
amateurs should be drawn to the splendid gymnasium
in Liverpool-street, conducted by Professors Miller and
D’Harconrt. Mtns tana in corpora sano is the acme of
human aims, and the corpus sanum can be well attained
by a course of “ study" in the gymnasium. All the
latest appliances have been secured, and a walking or
running track is available, round which one of the pro-
fessors occasionally does his mile under the 8 minutes.
The premises are cemmodious and airy, the instructors
are obliging and gentlemanly, and the pupils are select.
We would recommend parents, if they have not failed
to realise the benefits of a physical education, to seed
in their boys—and their girls, too, for Mrs. Miller gives
private lessons to young ladies.
A good day’s racing is fixed for the fith July, on
the East Maitland course. It was here that the famous
Miss D , then running her horse Kildare against
Coboroft’s Volunteer, turned on the stewards, judge,
starter, and jockeys, and threatened to horsewhip the
lot in turn. She believed the race to have been unfairly
run, and, [after thrashing her favourite jockey, she
urgently requested the stewards to allow her to ride
Kildare herself against Volunteer. It was shortly after
this that the fair sportswoman, having previously given
Mr. Yeomans, of West Maitland, a lien on her two
horses, attempted to make off with them. How she dyed
the horses, completely disguising them and kept them
in her parlour at MundarraTowers, Coogee Bay (subse-
quently the property of the late S unuel Bennett), is
well known among old *• sports.” Miss D is still
living, and resides somewhere near Melbourne.
“Trophoniua” writes us thus; — “Already
crews are practising for the Association Regatta to be
held in October. But why are men who are senior oars-
men or scullers in one or more of the associated clubs,
allowed to enter in the Association Regatta as juniors
and even maidens ? This is most decidedly unfair to
those who really are juniors and maidens, for it will be
evident to you that a man may be a senior and row
perhaps twenty races in one or even all of the Asso-
ciated Club regattas, and yet in the Association enter
as a maiden oarsman. Again, why not allow a maiden
oarsman or sculler to row on a slide if he prefer it F
This rule is only keeping out of the competition some
really good maidens who have not presumption enough
to enter at once as juniors and compete with more ex-
perienced oarsmen. It was, no doubt, even necessary
in the days when a common slide—like Laycock’s
rollers—cost £23, but at the present juncture, when
Melbourne oarsmen can laugh at us, it is simply an
absurd piece of aquatic conservatism.”
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Hamilton, Victoria, the other day, a welcher
was mobbed, and made to port with his watch, chain,
and rings Mr. Henry Redwood, of N Z., has suc-
ceeded in disposing of the major portion of his stud on
the art-union principle Speaking of the (since)
winner of the Grand Prix de Paris, an English sporting
scribe says : —“ Foxhall is an American-bred three-year-
old, belonging to Mr. Keene, and a very fine slashing
colt, too; he showed good form last autumn, and there
then was room for vast improvement, but it may be
doubted whether any boy will be able to ride him."
At the Australian Hotel, Wagga. Sam. Robbins, the
local champion, and Mike Knopp, a Melbourne ama-
teur, played a billiard match, 300 up, for £lO a-side. At
the end of the first half-hour, the score was : Robbins
89, Knopp 70. When a five minutes’ adjournment took
Elace the board was: Robbins 239, Knopp 168. The
itter on resuming made a break of 71 iu faultless style,
including a number of losing hazards. He stuck to his
opponent, and ultimately passed him, the excitement
being intense when the game was called Robbins 289,
Knopp 287, immediately followed by Knopp 299, Robbins
297. Then Robbins, who had played all through with
great luck, made a fluke and scored game. Knopp was
complimented by those present on his pluck Albers,
the well-known Victorian player, who has now a billiard
saloon in Adelaide, has been fined £5, under the new
S.A. Licensed Victuallers’ Act, for playing at 3 a.m
The two N.Z. bookmakers who took action in the late
totalisator cases were Christchurch or Dunedin, not
Auckland, men The fourth quarterly competition of
the Second Regiment Rifle Club was concluded on the
18th, Private Robinson taking top prize Messrs. G.
Denny and C. Belisario were re-elected slip-steward and
flag-steward respectively for the Woodstock Meeting.
F. M’Langhlan is willing to run C. White, or any
of the Clifton C.C., 100 or 150 yards, for any sam or a
trophy, and give a small start —to be run in the course
of next month T. O’Connor and A. Everley (known as
Albert) are to run a mile at Botany, on the 2nd July, for
£2O aside Mr. R. R. Dawbam, secretary of the Q.T.C.,
has, we are sorry to say, found it necessary to file his
schedule Mr. R. T. Cousins, of Kelso, while riding
a valuable horse, raised his gun and fired at a plover.
Just as the trigger was pulled the horse raised his head,
and as the gun was pointing along his neck the charge
penetrated his head, and he dropped dead on the spot.
The rider was not hurt.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The sermons at St. Lake’s Church, Harwood,
average in duration 40 min. 5 see.
The Eev. Mr. Ash, formerly of N.Z., has died
whilst a patient in the Lunatic Asylum, Sydney.
The Rev. J. C. Byng has lectured in Dunedin
about “ Recognition of Friends in Heaven." Mr. Byng
has the most recent information.
The guaranteed income of Bishop Pearson, of
Newcastle, is £3OOO. St James’ is crowded when he
preaches. The Bishop is very active, and was only re-
cently married.
Lieutenant King, of H.M. schooner Renard,
writes that Bishop Selwyn has been a valuable auxiliary
in the arrest of the murderers of Lieutenant Bower and
men of the Sandfly.
Some of the Auckland (N.Z.) clergy intend to
commence imparting religions instruction in Public
Schools, under the Education Act. This is better than
blathering about hardships.
Another Congregational Minister the Rev.
J. W. Henry, of Maryborough, Q. —has seen the error of
his ways and joined the Church of England—which, as
everybody, knows is more “ genteel."
The fund raised to defray the expenses of Mrs.
Hampson’s Dunedin mission amounted to £2lO, of
which £BO was appropriated by the committee as a gift
to the lady by way of memorial of her visit.
Two genealogical tables, identified with the
“generations of Adam," Gen. 5, and the “generations
of the sons of Noah," Gen. 10, are said to have been
discovered by Missionary Crawford, of the Baptist
Board, at Tung Chow, China.
Rev. Mr. Tranmar, Anglican clergyman, called
a meeting of his creditors at Hamilton, Vic. A letter
was read from the Bishop’s council, conditionally offer-
ing £lOO towards relieving the rev. gentleman of his
difficulties. It was agreed to accept 12s. 6d. in the £.
At a meeting of J ews in London after the death
of the Czar, a speaker said that Jews had nothing to be
grateful for to the late Czar. If this were not so the
records of the Anglo-Jewish Association were a tissue
The Jews of Russia have great and long
standing grievances, and the late Czar had done noth-
ing except making promises, to improve their position.
Sub-inspector O’Connor, replying to certain state
meats made by-Bishop Hale, says that it that right rev.
gentleman " would only go out into the wilds of Queens-
land, and endeavour to conciliate and tame the blacks,
instead of writing libels and falsehoods on men who
have always endeavoured to do their duty to bla< k and
white, there would be no further necessity for the use
of native mounted police."
At Blaokville, Dennis Smith, a local preacher,
has been fined £1 7s. 6d. and 10s. costs, or 14 days (to
chop wood) in gaol, for having said to a local school-
master, " You belong to the devil, or you are as close
to the devil as you «aoa get," or words to that effect.
He was also fined Is., with 4s. lOd. costs, for " cruelty
to animals,” in having hung his horse to a fence for
several hoars, while holding forth to the hard-hearted
of the place.
Some time ago the Protestants of Maokay ren-
dered valuable assistance at a local R.C. Bazaar. A
bazaar in aid of the Anglican church is new announced,
and a correspondent of a local paper calls “ upon the
Catholics to come forward and show that we are mind-
ful of the past, and give every support we can towards
the coming bazaar, and also to avail ourselves of our
Great Father’s command: to do unto others as you
would wish others to do unto you.” Happy Mackay !
** Civis,” in the Otago Timhs, propounds the
following teasers for the Anglo-Israelite Societies:—
1. If we are all Jews, and the Lost Tribes, how came we
te forget the circumstance P 2. When and where did
we get rid of our language? Hebrew, be it remem-
bered, belongs to the Semitic family of languages, and
English to the Aryan. No Aryan tongue, says Max
Muller, can possibly be derived from a Semitic source.
Mr. Silas Harding and the trustees of the
Aberdeen-street Church, Geelong, are at war. Portion
of the church, Mr. Harding alleges, is built on his
land, and he, the other day, commenced to demolish the
edifice by pulling down a pillar. No resistance was
made, and after toppling the pillar over into the church
ground, Mr. Harding, amid the hoots of a crowd, calmly
contemplated the work of his hands from his own
garden.
In the Diocesan Synod of S.A., the other day,
daring the now historical " shouting*’ debate, the Rev.
Mr. Richmond said: —" With regard to ’shouting,' had
it never struck any one present that it was a reminis-
cence ef the Holy Communion ? He contended that
the Communion was a sign of good fellowship." The
Vicar-General, we read, hereupon called Mr Richmond
to order —but what the rev. gentleman did order does
not appear. It seems to us that Mr. Richmond’s
theory, like the Darwinian one, cuts both ways.
The D ethodiat ministers of the Springfield dis-
trict of Massachusetts, in their annual meeting, had a
lively two-hours* discussion on faith and healing.
Several of the clergymen held that prayer was effectual
in healing the sick, but the majority of the speakers be-
lieved that such cures were wholly the result of imagi-
nation and will. The Rev. Frederick Woods said that
it would be as sensible for him to ask God for 50,000
dollars as for a sick man to pray for restoration to
health.
John Alexander Dowio and his Salvation Army
are “ going it ”in Adelaide. The following is the latest
announcement to hand from these hot-gospellers :
" Salvation Army Barracks, on Sunday. At 7 p.m., in
the Barracks, the Rev. J. A. Dowie and Mrs. Captain
Sutherland. Be in time." This, so far, has a celestial
flavour. But, as a prominent Salvation Army man was
the other day snmmoned for the value of some seats
which had been ordered for the forces, wo suppose that
this queer crowd are, after all, of the earth, earthy.
At the meeting of the Southport branch of the
Society for Promoting Christianity among the Jews a
lively protest by Jews was handed in. Here are s me-
extracts: —"As lovers of honesty and truth, being
deeply attached to our ancient faith, we, the unde, -
signed Jews, most energetically protest against the
Jesuitical machinations of the London Society for Pro-
moting Christianity among the Jews.” “ That the Con-
version Societies are a fraud has been repeatedly
asserted’by Jews and non-Jews, and has never been dis-
proved by the interested parties, and we can show by
figures and statistics that enormous sums have beeu
extorted from good Christians under false pretences, for
the avowed purpose of converting Jews." “If your reli-
gion teaches you to make converts, do so by all means,
but direct your energies into another quarter 1 There
is a grand field open for you yet—convert your own
heathen savages, your drunkards, murderers, wife-
beaters, baby-farmers, and other English miscreants.
Devote your Christianizing labours to the tribes of
gipsies and starving vagrants with which this country
abounds." “ The tolerance we demand is to be let alone.
The tolerance you claim is to annoy and offend youp
superiors." This is a rasper.
That highly-respected and hard-working clergy-
man, the Eev. W. Fletcher, 8.A., who died at Eedfem
on Monday week, aged 52, was born in the West Indies,
where his father was for many years a missionary. After
graduating at London University he proceeded, in 1852,
to New Zealand, as master of the Wesleyan College,
Auckland. He was subsequently engaged as a mis-
sionary in Fiji, and in 1861 founded at Kandavu an
institution for the training of native ministers. In 1864
he removed to Rotumah, where he translated the whole
of the New Testament, part of the Psalms, and a cate-
chism, into the language of the island. In 1870 he came
to Sydney to superintend the printing of his transla-
tions, and was thereafter appointed to Brisbane, whence
he proceeded again to Rotumah for two and a half years.
On his return to Sydney, he ministered at Balmain and
Chippendale; but in the middle of last year he was
attacked by internal cancer, his case being all along
thought hopeless by the doctors. He was conscious
and brightly intelligent to the end. He leaves a widow
and seven children. The Eev. J. H. Fletcher (Principal
of Newington College, Sydney.) and the Eev. George
Fletcher (Governor of Woodhouse School, England,)
are brothers of the deceased.


Tailors, Drapers, fco.
INTER
goods.
We have at present a nice supply of the following
seasonable goods:—
Girl’s Waterproofs and Long Jackets
~ Hosiery, Gloves and Wool Goods
Ladies’ Long Jackets and Waterproofs
Ladies’ Skirts—Felt, Alpacca, & Satin Quilted
Ladies’ Hosiery, Gloves, and Wool Goods
Ladies’ Lined Kid Gloves —Fur tops with Spring
Our own Registered Glove
2 Button 4 Button 6 Button
In the Shop 2/9 3/9 4/9
Posted 3/- 4/- 5/-
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just below Liverpool-street.
Tailors, Drapers
161
KING STBEEI
(Near Tramway)
MADAME WEIG]
PAPER PATTEENS of DRESSES
out in different si zee for Ladies
nished with illustrations and di
up. Sold at prices ranging froi
styles monthly in WEIGEL'
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by p
annum, post free. Catalogue
Patterns sent to any part of the
of price and measure. Postage
ADDRESS:
MADAME WEI
161 KING STEEI
SYDNEY.
JJ AYE YOU
TO
R. MORPH
233 Pitt Stri
JgLISE’S PAPEE CUT
All communications to be i
“ELIBE"
No. 12 PARK STREET, i
Six doors from George
Orders for Patterns cannot be e
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns
style, cut, and finish, being modelled
Fashions, and are always sent pe
receipt of stamps or money order.
“ tt is a well-know;
JL for Household or Family
Hordern’s" Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H 1 has
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Bt<
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOO
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES A]
Business Announc
U.SGAL.J
HORTER, FITZGERALD,
» SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary 1
Legal.— Mr. t. m, e
SOLICITOR, has cor
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite 1
News Office.
w.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAD
225 BOUEKE STREET, WOO:
IF
STANICH, the emine
returned from his tour t
and will commence the
fession, in Sydney, in
days.
CHEAPEST AND EES’:
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA!
HAY STREET, HAYM
TEA, Is per lb
Other articles equally chei
Tailors, Drapers
T HO
M P S O N AN
DENISON HOUI
358, 360, 362, George-
OPENING NEW G<
for
WINTER SEAS(
EVEEY DAT DURING TI
FIRST GENERAL £
of
NOVELTIES
FANCY DRESS!
FOR THE WINTER £
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE GAME
DOVER HOMESPUN INDR]
ELASTIC BIEGE AN GO
KASGHER CASHMERE JERSI
STOCKINGETTE VALP.
AND A LARGE ASSORTMK
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—
cases of very
ERY, someth!
handsome, dirt
houses in Lond
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR
SILK, Rich V
to 24 inch wide
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES.
SILKS, in a vai
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 8
6s lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and str
for wear, and f
BLACK VELVI
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard sta:
BLACK SATINI
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d,
are light and s<
under usual
SILK VELVI
every shade ol
and Brocaded
Floral Designs
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPAR'
OPENED a
MENT of a]
LACES in evt
imitation, Emt
Ruffling, Modi
Cuffs, Collars
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS w
FROM DEES!
be no decept
washed. Lad
Sheetings got*
males. Prices
to Is lid; 80-i
inch. Is 6d to 2
to 3s. Americ
k Horrocks’ C.
QUILTS, frou
prices. Coloi
QUILTS, 24 lo
COVERS at al
the yard, 27 ani
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our stud}
this class of
character. By
year after yeai
of FIRST-CLA
are now showi
ment of of DA
NAPKINS, boi
Damask. The
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We i
MASK CLOT
425; 5-8 NAPE
3-4 NAPKIN!
29s 6d; DA
round or squar
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to !
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW LIN
wide ; WH ]
TOWELS, fro
cording to siz
TSTT TOVTETif
Business Announce
I HAVE tkis day commence
Stock and Share Broker, and
undertake any commissions either
chase of shares that may be entrust
J
References :
Hon. S. D. Gordon, b
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C
Hon. L. W. Levy, M.
Richard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-str«
D
A Y I B M ‘
14, Hunter-street, Sy
SADDLER AND HAENEI
By special appointn
To his Royal Highness the Duke
Excellency the Eight Hon. tl
His Excellency Sir Hercules E
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newes
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlen
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,
•piASTEEN SPECIALITY '
CABLES AND AH
strongly recommend their
2s. TEA,
which wi l ! he found equal to anj
much higher pri
724 GEORGE S
HATMAEKEI
AG. c h u e c
• 147 FORK STE
Opposite the Marl
IMPORTER AND MANUFj
Coffee, Peppers, Spi
CLEVELAND MILLS. SU!
CHEAPEST HOUSE I
for Liverpool and Black Hor
Choicest Sage and Majoram on 1
680,000 AMERICAN SB
Just arrived, all s
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Fork Sausage skins, splendid sa
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 1
Canterbury.
NOWLAI
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NARB
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY,
SATURDAY for WEE WAA
GETT, MILLIE, and MOREE
nTTXTxrnrv a tt mirciorv axr .
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, GEORQE-STREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
F AS AION ABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
AH Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d,
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
I ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
B
LANKETS.
BLANKETS.
■ FIRST SHIPMENT OF THE SEASON"
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE, PULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
“ Competition defied.”
MEBICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST'S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST'S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear, Is. ; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 Zing Street, Stdnet (two doors from Qeorge-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-atreet, Melbourne.
E O. L. LINEKER,
" HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOR,
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to Inform bis friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work-
manship, See., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
U.8.-TWO DOORS FROM GEORGE STREET.
R. C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
127 KING STREET,
Cannot Cannot Cannot
be be be
Excelled Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, and FASHION.
To effectually stop the extortion that has been prac-
tised in the way of clothing R. C. H. is making from
pure West of England and Scotch Tweeds.
In Five-button sac pattern suits, to Order, 70s.
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 655.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
West of England, Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 3d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order 16s 6d.
N.B.—Patterns, with self-measurement system, sent
post free to all parts of the colony.
Note the Address —
127 KING STREET.
3
73S
tjfji
*
m
opr
s&Bl
%
O'
wm
OIA
V '
J
GLASS (all sizes cat
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
White and i
Turpentine
Raw and Boi
Brush ware
Paperhangers' Cai
(three qualities
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver I
Wcod-preserving 0
Eesin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
MIXED PAINT, EEABT FOE 1
EEQUIEED.
All orders promptly executed by E
Suburbs.
THE BEITI8H PLATE AND
WAEEHOUSE
29 and 31 GEOEGE ST El
GLASS
STEAM COACH AND W]
WORKS,
Haeeis-steeet, off Geo
and
Adjoining the Darling Ha


Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palao
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late cMf de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
c
lOMPAGNONI PALACE CAPE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTE tS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S. opposite Victoria Theatre.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jateeing (Jompant,
315 6EOEGE STEEET,
(late Harris’ Ca£6, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthdav Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
CONFECTIONER Y S Of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(J HAS. E. gMI T H,
MANAGER.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEEEAGH STEEET,
Opposite Theatre Royal.
CE
r
EB
MU
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLBR,
PROPRIETORS
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &c.
W. E O B E E T S,
MARKET STEEET,
FOE FIEST-CLASS WINES, SPIEITS, AND
BEERS.
c
R
OBEET BUTCHEE &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIEIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEOEGE STEEET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO..
ConirTKT Orders Receive Prompt Attektiok.
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUAETEE CASKS,
AND CASE.
AGENT—GEO EGE LLOYD,
BEIDGE STEEET CHAMBERS.
OOLALTA WINE CELLAES,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLAES.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLAES at the A.S.N. Co.'s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TEADE.
•aP Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
ROYAL EXCHANGE DINING BOOMS,
KING & GEORGE STREETS.
A. A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.E.H. the Prince of Wales and Suite,
PROPRIETOR OF THE ABOVE ROOMS,
Begs to intimate that he is now supplying
THE BEST TABLE D’HOTE A-LA-EUSSE
From 12 to 3 p.m. for Is 6d.
The best INDIAN CUEEY, by a NATIVE COOK on
the premises. Suppers ready, hot and cold, from Bto
12 p.m. Separate room for ladies. Arrangements
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and PARTIES, on most
reasonable terms. Rooms vacant for gentlemen.
Your patronage is respectfully solicited.
A. A. WEBB,
ROYAL EXCHANGE DINING ROOMS,
King and George streets, Sydney.
THE
TAEPING MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made up into 11b and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places :
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M'Donald, Williem-street, Woolloomooloo
J. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M'Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Riley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C,. Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Sedgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
E. Correy and Co., corner of Crown and Devonshire-
streets
E. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
E. Dunne, corner of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M'Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Wateiloo
J. McDonald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Guinery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Redfem
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
E. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
G.
AND S. PEEDDET.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Eeskine Sxeeet.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., at lowest rates.
Hotels, So.
OLD EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOE BOAEDEES,
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIEITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIEE, Proprietor.
ROBINSON’S FITZEOY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
AT.T. the BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND POETEE,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockbum’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially lor invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
I
-1
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
worv-2.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MEECHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
BlwnWHll
V;H1
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully coon pared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,"AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
ROSS AND CLINCH.
(Late Collins and Boach),
SEATED WATER
AND
CORDIAL MANUFACTURERS,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
CORDIALS OP ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDRESS.—
BOSS AND CLINCH,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
JP MAETIN AND CO.,
AUSTEALLAN WINE MEECHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
ALBURY WINES.
PORT MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
JPALLON’S PEIZE ALBUEY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Vineyard :
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris 1864
Vienna ,, 1873
Philadelphia ,, 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Eeisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
Thu Name of M. MOSS & 00
every Q-enuine Bottle,
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained ot
storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak nnma-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
CS
&
rd
Q
&
n
ft
&
m
SCPEEIOE to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PUKITT and FLAV OUE.
Wholesale Agent—CHAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
_ Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents,
0
DC
MAR
S T
U T.
AE ’ S
This favourite brand of
stout
in with great care from the best of the brew-
an^po theoel . ebrated flrm of AETHUR GUINNESS
aaa UG., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Tey H. HOOKINGS & CO.’S
Pure Old Australian Wines.
PITT STBEET, Opposite City Bane.
a?*
u
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STREET (first floor),
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons,
Hours—9 to 5.
MONET ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
security, payable by instalments, as follows:
£lO by weekly instalments of ... £0 6 0
15
20
25
30
50
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
0
0 10
0 12
1 0
1 5
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not able to transact business during the
day, the offices will be open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, first floor,
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
10 SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONET LENT on mortgage of properties, in sums
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANT, 760 George-street Hay-
market.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Carden, in a letter to the Christchurch
Liberty, accuses a certain N.Z. critic of “ swaggering
into the theatre, and occupying a prominent seat in the
circle, with a barmaid; going out between the acts and
getting fuddled at other people’s expense; roystering it
with minor theatricals till it was time to go to the
office—and then, with unsteady hand, praising the sou-
brette, and accusing the stars of wanting in some essen-
tial quality of rendition.” We refuse to believe this
story. Pressmen never drink, and barmaids, therefore,
won’t associate with them The Cardens lost their
passage from Christchurch to Wellington, owing to
their agent, Dick Thatcher, having got it into his head
that a gale which had been blowing would throw up
some valuable shells of a certain kind on the Brighton
Beach, and having made for that spot accordingly. He
was successful in his search, and says that “science
must be attended to—hang the theatricals." George
Bignold is gibbeted in effigy in all the N.Z. theatre
paint-rooms, as “ the man who is gone, but never
parted." A Christchurch scene-painter did as a scene
for “ Les Cloches de Corneville," a view of Penzance.
He is a Londoner, and explained that if it wasn’t Corn-
wall it was close to it Miss Solange Navaro (Mrs.
Fred Digby), has made a re-appearance in Christchurch
(N.Z.), as Serpolette in “ Les Cloches de Corneville.
Although showing signs of being no younger than when
she last appeared, it may be said that “ custom cannot
change nor age," &o. Since leaving Sydney, Miss
Navaro has become a happy wife and mother The
S. F. Newsletter says that a certain actress, lately
from these colonies, received a present of a pair of
diamond earrings on the occasion of her benefit there.
It doesn’t know the whole story. A few gentlemen
decided to make the lady a present, and selected a
locket at a jeweller’s in tho town. The actress’ husband,
hearing of it, asked the subscribers if they would mind
giving a pair of earrings, he paying the difference.
The earrings were duly presented on the stage by a
little local auctioneer. Unfortunately the husband
forgot to pay “the difference" before leaving, and the
little auctioneer had subsequently to shell out about
£lOO over and above the £4O previously subscribed
The veteran English tenor, Sims Beeves, calculates he
has lost £70,000 during his long professional life from
nervous inability to keep engagements Sara Bern-
hardt works in her studio in male attire Camilla
Urso is playing successfully in classical concerts at
New York Grattan Biggs avers that he was almost
miraculously prevented from being a passenger by the
Torarua. We’re glad to give Grattan an “ ad."
Blondin’s son (Bon-Bon) follows in the tight-rope
footsteps of his father. He does all the feats done by
Blondia pere over the Niagara Cataract, including
carrying his brother and his cub bear on his back over
the high rope. He also advertises that £lOO will be
given to any person or persons proving Bon-Bon, the
young Blondin, not to be the son of the original hero
of Niagara Falls. Wise child, Bon-Bon I R. W.
Carey has been doing some smart work. While Simon,
sen’s Company were passing through Wellington he
engaged a number of the chorus singers, leading
violinist, and pianist. Simonsen was so enraged at
Carey taking his people that a scene, one of the
principals in which got a block eye, occurred as the
steamer was leaving The Fakir of Coin’s schedule:
E. Eigby, hotelkeeper, £l5O for cash lent and board and
residence; J. C. Rainer, £l5O for rent of St. George’s
Hall; Charles Silvester, of Latrobe-street, illusionist,
£75 for cash lent and wages; W. H. Smith and Co.,
shipowners, £3O steamboat fares; Holdsworth and
Brown, Sydney. £3O law costs Liddy and troupe left
Brisbane for Maryborough on the 20th; Lucy Fraser
was very ill. The company play at Maryborough,
Gympie and Rockhampton. Liddy returns from Mary-
borough to Sydney for novelties It will perhaps
astonish some Brisbane people to learn that the local
musical union cleared £3O by the three nights’ concerts
given in conjunction with the Austrian Band. Tho
latter cleared nothing. The musical nnion committee
proposed to hand over £l4 to the “ poor players;" the
other £l6 having been paid to Mr. Jefferies for con-
ducting. But objections came from an unexpected
quarter. The Austrians are very wroth. By the way,
they now deal with Mr. Kaye From an exchange we
learn that Herr Bandmann and Mdlle. Beaudet will
shortly startle the world by appearing in a new play
called “ Hamlet," assisted by a dramatic company
“ the members of which are favorably spoken of by tho
Australian press." It would be a happy thought to
start a dramatic company which was not spoken favor-
ably of by the Australian press. The novelty of such a
show would draw better than a six-headed calf or a
mustard poultice In Gilbert and Sullivan's asthetio
opera the lady characters object that the uniforms of the
dragoons are not at all nsthetio, and Lady Jane sug-
gests that they ought to be “ a cob-webby grey velvet,
with a tender bloom like oold gravy, which, made
Florentine fourteenth century style, trimmed with
Yenetian leather and Spanish Allan lace, and sur-
mounted with something Japanese," would be “ more
purely fragrant," and “ more earnestly precious."
Signor Ortori has been assisting at concerts in Son
Francisco Eleanor Carey is in Philadelphia At
Wanganui the Simonsens got “fits" for their per-
formance of “ Pinafore," which drew a fine house on
the last night of the season there. The Herald said
that any favourable impressions the company had pre-
viously created they did their best to efface that night
Ada Lester has been playing at Perth The Yokes
Family cleared £3300 in one week at the Globe
Theatre, Boston The Lingerie tell the Americans
they cleared £14,000 in Australia Lytton Sothern is
earning golden opinions in Scotland Zulu Thompson
and his show finish at Adelaide on July 2, “ after aglori-
ous run of six weeks; houses packed to suffocation
nightly." After a short tour up country they catch the
“ Otway ’’ for Western Australia, where they remain two
months, returning and playing in Hobart; thence to New
Zealand Ghiloni’s wax-works exhibition goes to
Brisbane this week Mr. Lyons, Blondin’s agent,
leaves Melbourne on Saturday for New Zealand, with
M’Lean’s Troubadours and other performers, who are
about to do Maoriland. Mr. M'Lean, after 3) years
travelling, rests in Sydney until the troupe’s return
Simonsen says that at the end of his New Zealand
campaign be will abandon English opera and confine bis
attention to Italian opera and opera bouffe In a
notice of Mrs. Lingard, the N. Y. Mirror says:—
“ Had it not been for the peripatetic calling she has
followed, in company with her singular husband, for the
past few years, she would "to-day have occupied a high
position on our stage." Hudson’s Surprise Party
have made a big hit at Charters Towers Tho Masto-
don Minstrels opened to a crowded house at Dubbo on
Friday evening, and have “ struck oil.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Mr. John L. Hall, familiarly called “Johnny”
l>y those who love him (and who does not love him f)
returned to Sydney on Saturday last, and opened at the
Opera House on the same evening in “ Weak Woman,"
a comedy of Byron's, which, for some reason best known
to himself, Mr. Hall chooses to call “ Our Girls." The
theatre was, we are sorry to say, mot very full on the
night of the militia captain’s but as the sparse
attendance in the dress circle afforded those in the
stalls and circle an opportunity of admiring th# new
iron American chairs with which that portion of the
house has been fitted, we suppose that the management
consoled themselves with the brilliant picture afforded
by the new fixtures for the rather moderate roll up of
the public.
* * *
“ Our Girls ” is neither one of Mr. Byron’s best
comedies nor one of his worst. It is a quiet little piece
with a very small plot, hut some good situations and
excellent dialogue. The play is very familiar to the
Sydney publio—perhaps too familiar —but Mr. Hall’s
impersonation of Captain Gingah is by reason of its
sterling merit always welcome to playgoers. For all
this, however, it is to be regretted that Mr. Hall did
not make his re-appearance in something new, and it is
to be still more deplored that he did not bring with him
a troupe of ladies and gentlemen of more brilliant
histrionic attainments than those which supported him
on Saturday night. 11 Weak Woman " being, as we
have hinted, rather a weak play, it is the more necessary
that the performers should play sharply and crisply in-
to one another’s hands, in order that the interest may
be sustained. This being the case, the evident efforts
of the artists engaged in the representation to make his
or her points independently of each other caused the
comedy at times to assume the appearance of a rather
jerky and fragmentary production. Still Mr. Hall’s
wonderful antics, ridiculous make-up, and unflagging
energy would have saved a far worse piece, far mors in-
differently performed, and the verdict of the andience
—if lavish applause be any indication of favour—was of
a most flattering description.
• • m
Mr. A. F. Boothman, who played Frederick
Fanshawe, rendered himself remarkable in the first ast
by returning from the wilds of Mexico habited in the
costume of an Andalusian bandit; and as the dress was
as much overdone as Mr. Booth man'B acting was under-
done, that gentleman did not altogether shine as
Frederick. Mr. Hesford (a stranger) made, on the
other hand, a good Dr. Hemming, and Mr. Sam Poole
was amusing as Tipkins. Mr. Russell’s Arthar Medwyn,
though a careful performance, lacked polish, and he
dressed the part with more originality than discretion.
• • •
Two young ladies, comparative novices in
their profession, named respectively Lillie and Annie
Marsh, ware entrusted with the rdlss of the sisters Gay-
thorne: Miss Lillie playing Helen, and Miss Annie
Lilian. These young ladies worked very hard for the
piece, bat were only moderately successful in their
efforts to please. Both have much yet to learn, and,
happily, plenty of time in which to learn it. At present,
in oar opinion, their abilities are more suited for the
provincial than the metropolitan stage. Our report of
Miss Milne’s Mrs. Gann mast be a good one.
* * * *
On Thursday last, Boucicanlt’s “ London As-
surance ” was performed at the Opera House by " The
Sydney Literary and Dramatic Club," admission being
by invitation ticket. We arrived at the theatre at 8
o’clock, armed with one of these documents, bat dis-
covered that so liberal had been the members of the
club in affording an enthusiastic public an opportunity
of witnessing their efforts for the elevation of the drama,
that every part of the theatre was crowded to suffoca-
tion—not even standing-room being available anywhere.
And as we didn’t and couldn’t see the performance, we
can’t write about it. For this we are sorry, as we hear
great things about Lady Gay Spanker. We hope that
the club, if they wish to be immortalized in these
columns, will at their next performance be kind enough,
in the case our being (as in this instance) debarred from
securing a seat by paying for it, to set aside a perch for
os, from which we may be enabled to contemplate their
triumphs.
* * * *
“ Tambour-Major ” is undoubtedly jolly, and ia
in consequence attracting all Sydney. Mr. Mervin, now
that we and the public understand him a little better, is
with his humour and pathetic changes, a great draw.
We are told that he plays the part on the exact
model of the original impersonator of the drum-major
in Paris—whither he journeyed to "assist" at the
representation of the opera prior to its production in
London. We quite believe this, and therefore mast do
Mr. Mervin the simple justice to say that, considering
he onlr speaks the bare words that are set down for him,
he plays the part with immense ilan and effect. It may
hi interesting to a few thousands of our fair constituents
to know that —
A. most important musical treat is on the tap it,
viz., the appearance, at the Masonic Hall, on the flth
instant, of the superb violinist, Herr August Wilhelmj,
Mies Kate Thayer, the charming soprano, an* Herr
Maximilian Vogrich, the eminent pianist. Mr. Chap-
man, the agent for the troupe, has been in town some
time making the necessary arrangements for the appear-
ance of the company, and he has sent us an excellently
printed pamphlet (from the press of H. E. Woods A Co.)
which contains highly interesting biographical sketches
of the musical trio, together with extracts from various
press notices which they have received in America st
ailleurs. Of the lady, the N.T. Hbbald says i—“ Miss
Thayer possesses a pure, clear organ, under splendid
training, and ample artistic feeling and intelligence.
Miss 1 hayer has evidently inherited the talent of the
generations of actors from whom she has descended."
* « »
Of Herr Wilhelmj, whose fame is world-wide,
the notices reprinted in Mr. Chapman’s hrothurt are
very voluminous and highly flattering. This paragraph,
however, from the N.T. Graphic, will enable our
readers to form an idea of what the artist is, without
our employing any fuller quotations:—“ What Bubin-
stein is to the pianoforte, and Adelina Patti to the lyric
stage, August Wilhelmj is to the violin. He is an
absolute master of that most satisfying of instruments;
and when we say that he vanquishes all difficulties, ws
convey but a faint idea of the marvellous power which
distinguishes every effort."
* * •
Speaking of the third artist, Herr Yogrioh, the
St. Petsesbueg Pbsssb has the following“ At the
age of our own Eubinstein, we predict that Herr Vogrich
will occupy a position in the musical world second to no
one."
• *
It will thus be seen that the musical public, if the
general report and the papers quoted are to be believed,
have a splendid treat in store for them ; and we trust that
these artistes, who have travelled so many hundred
miles to visit us, will receive that cordial welcome which
Sydney knows so well how to give.
* * * *
Bambini tells us the Tambour-Major has proved
a golden mine—ah.
* * * *
The Montague-Turner Company have, it would
seem, taken Brisbane by storm. We have received
from their treasurer, Mr. W. Le Coutenr, a letter, in
which he informs us that all are in splendid voice, and
that crowded houses have been the rule ever since their
arrival. We are very glad to hear this, because it haa
seldom been our lot to meet with cleverer people than
Mr. and Mrs. Turner, a more fascinating contralto than
Miss Lambert, a more amiable baritone than Mr. E.
Farley, or a nicer treasurer than Mr. W. Le Contour.
(Ahem !1. We are looking forward with pleasure to the
25th, whsn the tuneful crowd reappear in Sydney.
“ Mignon” will be the opening opera, and if what wo
are told of it is true, campstools and sandwich boxes at
4 in the afternoon will be familiar objects in Castle-
reagh-street, during the run of.. Ambroise Thomas’
master-piece.
* * * *
Of “ Diplomacy ” we have nothing to add. The
piece, all through, is a magnificent artistic triumph.
We understand that it is the intention of the manage-
ment to take the piece off in the full tide of its success,
in order to afford the public a chance of seeing Pinero’s
“Money Spinner" We therefore recommend those
who have not yet seen the piece to “ walk up while
there is yet time.”
* * * *
Mr. James Bainford’s amateurs show to-night
(Thursday) at the School of Arts. They play “The
School for Coquettes,” and “Woodcock’s Little Game”
for the benefit of the public in general, and the Ashfleld
Infants’ Home in particular. We hope that the In-
fants’ Home will benefit. Many of our citizens justly
regard it as an exceedingly useful institution.
* * * *
Miss Clara Hamilton announces that aha will not
sing, and Mr. William Denholm announcesthat he will
not dance, for the Highland Society. Seasons for this
at present locked in the indignant breasts of Clara and
William aforesaid.
« *
At the Town Hall, on Friday, however,
bct Vi w .orm at a concert under the auspices of the
iyor, and directed by Herr Hugo Alpen, and the High-
land Society announces its second winter concert
without them at the Protestant Hall, on the 19th.
Perhaps before this event comes off we shall be in a
position to inform a breathless universe the reason why,
at present, for the society in question,. Clara will not
warble, and “ Wullie" will not dance.
** * *
Mr. Wilson has painted a very pretty curtain
for the Opera House. This ought to make that theatre
popular. Most Sydney people like a good drop.
** * *
A few more Theatre Boyal rhymes :
If on the street yon meet a fellah.
Before to sherry yon adjourn,
*Tis odds he’ll start a pitch on Stella,
And do a gush about “ Laveme."
If you call on your aunt about.
We’ll say, the loan of—well—a tenner.
She’ll rave, without the slightest doubt.
About that lovely tenor “ Brennir."
Why, e’en the butcher and the baker
Cannot with their feelings cope.
From their sad hearts they cannot shake her
And of sweet Minnie live in Hope.
“ That officer” has " knocked" the scribes, sir.
And none would have the heart to slate her.
For Florence are no cruel gibes, sir.
They all, alas I have hearts for Slater.
For many a week will keep the stage here,
Tambenr-Major we will wager.
Legs and laughter are the rage here.
Lots of both in Tambonr-Major.
* « •
There is plenty more of this in the mill. We
have no time to grind any more of it out, though, at
present. Next week, perhaps—but why "anticipate a
nation's sorrow ?"
** * *
On Monday night the Lyceum Dramatic and
Musical Society, which, we understand, is a Temperance
affair, managed by Mr. L. E. Harcus, gave an entertain-
ment at the School of Arts in aid of their wardrobe and
library. Having carefully contemplated the performers
on the stage for upwards of an hour we have come to
the conclusion that the wardrobe of the society is very
much in want of aid indeed; and judging from the
reckless manner in which some of the actors mutilated
the English language, we cannot but feel convinced
that the contractor who furnished the books omitted to
include in his catalogue the dictionaries and Lindley
Murrays of modern civilisation. The performance con-
sisted of a “ comic drama" called “ The Brothers," a
“musical interlude," and a farce. Our experience of
the entertainment, however, is of the drama only, for
on the conclusion of that portion of the performance
we girded mp our loins and fled.
• • •
Asa programme was furnished to the audience
with the names of the performers inscribed thereon, it
is of course permitted to the critic to notice them
individually as with professional performers ; and this
the more especially as their entertainment was in aid
of no public charity and the ordinary prices (or some-
thing like them) were charged for admission. We do
not, however, purpose doing more than glancing at one
or two characters, and we sincerely trust that our re-
marks will be received by the society in precisely the
spirit in which they are written.
# * *
In a word, then, the whole thing was “ one
shriek.” The actors could neither speak properly n«r
dress properly, nor walk properly. Such a melancholy
exhibition has not been seen, we should say, since
Amelia Martin made her d<but at the White Horse
Conduit. The gentlemen (with the exception of Mr.
Leslie) wandered about the stage melancholy and
benighted; the ladies got fogged usually about three
times every five minutes as to the text, and never in
the whole course of the piece once delivered themselves
of a single appropriate gesture. It was, in truth, a
very painful exhibition, and we earnestly recommend
these good people to refrain in future from inflicting
upon their friends, by exhibiting themselves in public,
unnecessary pain and anguish. The performance, we
hear, was not over until very late, and we are told that
the ushers were kept at work until the small hours of
the morning, engaged in sweeping np the H’s.
** * *
Of course you are all dying to hear something
more about Gilbert and Sullivan’s "Patience." Well,
it is an undoubted success at home, though whether it
will be so here, where the aesthetic rage has not yet
taken root (always excepting the case of a celebrated
art-critic), is extremely problematical. Some of the
songs are very ingenious : this one, for.instance
" Now, is not this ridiculous, and is not this preposter-
ous,
A thorough-paced absurdity—explain it if yon can.
Instead of rushing eagerly to cherish ns and foster ns.
They all prefer this melancholy literary man.”
The ditty of the " Every-day Tonng Man," though
rather too local ia colouring for every Australian to
understand, is very lively:—
“A Waterloo House young man,
A Sewell and Cross young man,
A steady and stolid-y jolly bank-holiday
Every-day young man.”
Then there is the poet Bunthome’s song of the " artistic
■ham," who “ walks down Piccadilly with a tulip or a
lily in his mediaeval hand,” set, it may be incidentally
remarked, to a charmingly graceful and delicate accom-
paniment.
• « •
To our mind, the gem of the opera is the parody
sung by " The Lady Jane," on a (fearfully) well-known
ballad. When she is awaiting the return of Buntherne
to her side, she soliloquises thus:—“ Do not dally too
long, Reginald, for I am ripe, Reginald, and already,”
she adds with disagreeable suggestiveness, “ I am decay-
ing. Bettor seenre me before I have gone too far.” And
then, accompanying herself on a huge violoncello, she
meditates in recitative upon the evanescent nature of
woman's charms, breaking into a delirious parody of a
sentimental ballad—
As someone remarks in the play, “ This is quite too
too.” Gilbert, when he wrote these lines, must have
been thinking of one of Swinburne’s translations of
Villan.
* * * *
St. Leon’s Circus opened at Wilcannia ten days
ago. It announces that it exhibits "TwoChinosipholoua.
The wonders of the world.” In reference to which the
Western Grazier remarks “ If they’re dangerous,
we hope St. Leon won’t let 'em loose.”
* * *
We note that the agent is John J. Cameron.
We hope this little gentleman is well. Last time we
heard of him he was with “ Buckley’s Bijou Troupe,"
playing straight man (being very lame the while) in the
farces at Mount Gambler.
* * * *
Glancing at a copy of the frozen beef organ the
other day,we perceived that their critic has ceased writ-
ing from the “ stage box.” It would be sad to think
that he now wrote from the pit. The mistake that
critic made was in not beginning at the pit, as then he
might gradually have ascended, if not to the stage-box
at least to the gallery.
* * * *
Says the insult to common sense which ia weekly
inflicted on the Adela’deans under the title of Tex
Bulletin and Lantern :—“ Garner’s • Upper Crust *
at the Royal (Sydney) has been withdrawn in favour of
the ‘ Colleen Bawn ’—Sydney taste all over." This is
rather tall writing for a paper published in a city whose
aristocracy will turn out to see a dozen paralytic wax
figures, a decrepit comic singer, and a brass band of
three.
* * * *
The Sydney Express, conducted as it ia by a
very distinguished prelate, should either ignore the
theatres altogether, or else write about them in a proper
spirit. A feeble person, who writes a columa of
“ Bohemian ’’ pars, in the paper every week, was evi-
dently sore not long ago, at being refused gratuitous
admission to the theatre. Being more fortunate, how-
ever, with Mr. Harwood, he turns round on Mr. Garner,
and roundly abases him—and this is the style in which
he does it: —“ So long as his (Gamer’s) forces were
properly Marshall-ed, he was able to do as he liked—and
did it —but he was less successful when he had to de-
pend on himself. Henry R. Harwood knows his way
about, and makes no snob unprofitable mistakes in his
transactions with the Press. Consequently the immense
snccess of ‘ Tambour Major ’ is, te most of the critics,
a source of genuine satisfaction.” Now, we are at a
loss to decide what this classical effusion shows
most: the writer’s dislike to Mr. Gamer for keeping
him out, or his gratitude to Mr. Harwood for letting
him in.
• * *
But when he ia let into a theatre, what does he
write about ? Yon shall see. We turn to this week’s paper,
and clip the notice of “ Diplomacy.” Here it is, with the
middle, which is four lines copied from the programme,
cut out: —" Gaiety Theatre. —On Saturday night V.
Sardou’s four-act society play, ‘ Diplomacy,’ was pro-
duced at the Gaiety Theatre. It is a fine comedy, and
is put on the stage in a really creditable manner. ....
The play has been well put on the stage, and deserves
the patronage accorded to it during the week by the
play-going public."
* * *
We suppose it is to a notice like this that the
“ immense success " of “ Tambour Major,” which has
given " most of the critics " such “ genuine satisfac-
tion,” is due. This writer is evidently out sf his
element as a journalist. Why don’t they make an
ecclesiastic of him—or a tailor ?
* * * *
Mr. Al. Hayman (of Hiscooks and Hayman) has
filed his schedule in Melbourne. Causes —Losses in
business, and through failure of the Provincial and
Suburban Bank; also, failure of a late partner to carry
oat contracts. Debts, £1943 9s. 9d.; assets, £4O; defi-
ciency, £1903 9s. 9d. Whew I
* * * *
Harry Eiohardson is getting np a new “ fake,”
in the shape of a bicycle tournament. It will take
place at the Exhibition Building, and should prove a
profitable affair. There are to be any number of prizes,
and we should like to see the thing turn out well, as we
believe that Harry Richardson is not quite such a rich
Harry as ha used to be, owing to his having been so
foolish as to always pay the pros, he engaged to show for
him. “ I will now, gentlemen, direct your attention to
this solid silver tea service, and I hope no one will
insult me by starting it under three-and-six.
* * * *
Plays in preparation : —At the Haymarket;
“ Lolotte,” from the French, by F. 0. Bumand, and
James Mortimer’s “Butterfly Fever” (also from the
French), at the Criterion. George R. Sim’s “Mem-
her for Slocum;" “ Herne the Hunter,” by Robert
Reeve, at the Gaiety. “Juana," by Mr. Wills, with
Modjeska in the title rile at the Court; and “Wild
Love,” with Linda Dietz—theatre not yet decided on.
We are also told that M. Chas. Gounod’s latest opera,
" Le Tribnt de Zamora." has been purchased, so far as
English rights are concerned, by Messrs. Cramer and
Co., and will probably be produced next antnmn on the
English stage. The English adaptation will he written
by Mr. Henry Hersee, who is also engaged by Messrs.
Ricordi, of Milan, to write an English adaptation of
Verdi’s remodelled opera, “ Simone Boocanegra,” re-
cently produced with great success at La Scala, Milan.
* * * *
There’s nothing new from Melbourne,
Except, the papers say.
That Pomeroy is playing at
The Royal, in “ Led Astray."
Kowalski, with Miss Christian, has
Been raking in the tanners.
Performing Henri’s March* Hongroiso
Upon eight grand planners.
* * * *
Fulton is at Qonlbum with
A gift show and—oh, save us 1 —
A pianist Amiricain,
Who’s billed as “ Henri Davies."
At Gundagai, with Jenny Holmes
(According to advices).
Performing to good business, too.
The great Professor Rice is.
* * * *
Ashton is at the Macleay,
The old boy well and chirping.
Bandmann closed at Auckland in
“ The Brothers" and “ Dick Turpin.”
Anderson has Maitland left;
Emmett's keeping sober; *
M’Cabe, we hear, will start his show
In Sydney next October.
* * * *
Hetty Croaoher (s’cuse the rhyme I)
Is joined within the banns
Of matrimony—verse sublime I
To M. J. Abrahams.
Kelly gave the bride away;
A ring was "stood" by Lester;
“ Lid.” gave a p apisr mache tray ;
And Ball—oh. Ball he blest her.
Then she was kissed (to close the rhyme)
By Chi-arming Emma Wangenheim.
* By Californian mail we hear that poor Fritz has
gone mad.
* * * *
Here, by the way, ia the conundrum that gained
the prize the other night at Zulu Thompson’s Show in
Adelaide:—“ Why is the Torrens Dam like a bush
coachman ? Because it holds the rains and dams every-
thing that comes in its way." A gold watch for that!
* * * *
Miss Edith Pender recently fell out with the
Temora Star, and gave the critic of that lively paper
a little of her mind in the presence of the audience.
Of course the critic can only reply in a dignified way.
One can’t call a lady names.
* * * *
By the way, it has transpired that the sale of
Schneider’s jewels for £17,800 at the Hotel Dronot, in
Paris, is a canard. Not half of them belonged to her,
and a very amusing London paper called Society gives
this explanation of the affair:—“When a celebrated
actress in Paris announces a sale of her effects (jewels,
furniture, or anything else at the above well-known
mart), she is besieged by requests from other actresses
as well as by jewellers, who want to realise a little
money, to allow some of their property to be sold with
hers, and nndsr her name. Of course she halves the
profits thus made—which are always great at such sales.
Her reputation for * property’ is largely enhanced, and
—that’s the way it’s done 1"
* * * *
Just this little one about our own dear George.
While in New York, lately, ho was discussing the merits
of his play, “ Back from the Grave," with Augustin
Daly. “ It has had many imitators," remarked George,
musingly. “Yes,” replied Daly, "especially before-
hand."
* * * *
From London we learn a lot of interesting
things. First and foremost Madame Trebelli has de-
serted Mr. Mapleson for Mr. Gye, Signor Campagnini
is also wavering in his allegiance. Luckily Nilsson is
The Sydney girls are over head
And ears in love with haudseme “ Fred.”
And who can wondsr P
That moustache (pattern, “ The Life Guards,”)
Will kill a sylph at forty yards.
By thunder 1
And when he “ gives the girls a treat,"
By slowly strolling on the street
We call "the Block,"
No gynrl he meets, we do declare.
But longs for, of that golden hair,
A tiny lock.
The poor clerks daily sadly! sigh.
And wipe their optics as they cry—
" He is the rage, here 1
That fellow’s always waltzing round
And spooning with our girls Confound
That Tambour-Major 1"
" Silvered is the raven hair—
Spreading is the parting straight.
Mottled the complexion fair.
Halting is the youthful gait.
Hollow is the laughter free.
Spectacled the limpid eye.
Little will be left of me.
In the coming byejand bye!
“Fading is the taper waist—
Shapeless grows the shapely limb.
And although securely laced.
Spreading is the figure trim 1
Stouter than I used to be.
Still more corpulent grow I
There will be too much of me
In the coming bye and bye 1


loyal, otherwise things would look very queer at Her
Majesty’s. On her road home, Rose Hersee gave a osn-
„oert at St. Helena. Solomon Moss, “ Ring of the
Island," attended with all his family. Tickets, £1 Is.
A new piece has been produced at the Britannia, Lon-
don, simply entitled, “ The Tiger of Mexico: or, a
Bough Road to a Golden Land." A new and successful
oomic opera Is called “ La Boulangere," and adapted by
H. B. Famie from Meilhac and Halevy’s piece of that
came for the London Globe. The stars are H. Paul ton
•.and a Madlle. Amadi.
** * *
The “ Stray Leaves” are at Adelong,
And this our ire arouses, —
They only show, the paper says.
To “ tol’rable good houses."
The Oliver and Sea.gra.ve crowd
Are lingering at Gympie;
“ Little Nell" has got a cold,
And “ biz." is rather “ skimpy."
« « *
Flash the glorious news the lines along i
Fred Leston’s studying a brand new song.”
** * *
“ The Mastodon Minstrels” drew over .£45 each
oight at Bathurst, and are now playing to crowded
houses in Dubbo. Wolfe does the business, and Ropofl
leads the band. Wo believe the company play overland
to Melbourne, and go from thence to New Zealand.
The tronpe have received several highly coloured notices
•from the country press. We shall be glad to receive a
line from one of these 6}
“Pearls of minstrelsie."
** * *
Creditors did pester
Poor Dr. Sylvester,
So he “ filed." and, in short.
Is to go “ through the court."
** * *
Many items of interest will be found under the
headings “ Poor Player ” and “ Late Theatrical."
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The worst thing about the loss of the Tarartxa
is some of the poetry on the subject in the N.Z. papers.
'Since reading the poets of Maoriland we have for-
given all out other enemies.
« « *
It’s the Herald that now sees ’em. In its
issue of Friday it says—and, being ecclesiastically
learned, it ought to know—that the motto of the Igna-
tian order is “ Ad Dajorem mei gloriam.” The fellow who
wrote this was evidently aware that there was a
jorum" somewhere. But he didn’t know exactly
where to put it. So he—swallowed it.
* * •
Mr. Alexander Stuart, while at the Church of
England Synod, had his coat and hat stolen. We
always had some delicacy in mentioning people’s names
in connection with anything derogatory, so we won’t
state what rev. gentleman Mr. Stuart suspects.
« * *
The Princes have lost no time in manufacturing
■ a German bull. In their reply to the address of the
Radina (S. A.) residents, they commence:—"Gentlemen,
it gives both my brother and myself," &c., —the docu-
ment being signed by both. But then Mr. Dalton, the
tutor of the two little boys, if not an Irishman has an
Irish name. It probably runs in his blood.
* • *
Archbishop Vaughan confirmed 40 men and 11
women in Darlinghurst Gaol the other day. Pastor
says that the ceremony should have been pro-
hibited. The persons in question, he maintains, are
now confirmed criminals.
* * *
Three industrious gentlemen of the William
Sykes order were lately arrested on suspicion of
not being fully competent to explain the exact meaning
of the words meum and tuum. Upon searching these
enterprising C.’sM.G. the police found upon them four
files, a bunch of skeleton keys, one “jimmy," two
loaded revolvers, four masks, and a copy of the D.T.
Fatal paper I It was the last link in the long chain of
circumstantial evidence.
* * •
Under the “ hatched” column of a recent South
Australian journal we find the following anti-assisted-
immigration notice. “ At her residence, on the 15th
inst., the wife of Captain Way, of <twins." It’s a way
they’ve got in the army now—in fact, two ways.
• * *
In America it is proposed that, instead of licens-
ing the persons who sell liquor, those who huy it shall
be licensed, and to those only can liquor be sold. When
a man wants to drink he will have to produce his per-
sonal permit to’the barman. Should a citizen be found
in a state of alcoholisation, his license to drink will be
cancelled for six months, and on a second offence for
-ever. Some other good American ideas have come out
lately. For instance, there’s the system referred to by
Rice and Besant, authors of “ The Golden Butterfly,"
under which a man who has a great deal to spend in
charity disposes of it, not amongst institutions which
take care of ruined drunkards and other worthless
people, but judiciously aids deserving persons who are
struggling on, and bound eventually to go up with or
without help. Charitable persons—that is to say,people
who may have plenty of money and are not mean—
should read “The Golden Butterfly.”
* * •
Sir Henry should create one more office in the
Civil Service, and that is an Inspectorship of J.’sP.
and candidates for unpaid beakdom. There are some
nice creatures in the last appointed lot of magistrates.
One of them, a manager of a station, who hasn’t three-
pence in the world beyond his wretched screw, and is
chiefly noted for being drunk all the time he is in the
nearest township, amused himself in the middle of the
other day by chasing a barmaid round and over the bar, to
the great edification of the roughs who stood watching
the fun. Another J.P., a mere boy, who also goes in
for a spree on every possible occasion, has for his chief
accomplishments running and jumping. He wanted
the “ Magistrates’ Guide,” the other day, and asked the
C.P.B. for “ the book that tells you all about it." How-
®y®r, perhaps he’s after all no worse than the rest of the
lads appointed, whose principal qualifications consist in
an acquaintance with sheep, cattle, and horses —some-
times superior and sometimes inferior to that possessed
by the station hands.
w • *
The Dubbo Dispatch says that the 25 per
° e SJ : dividends of the Commercial Bank are “a
credit to the colony.” Anyhow, they’re a big credit to
the bank.
• « «
Beneath a splendid photo, in Paling’s window
we find the following startling information. “R.C.
£?S°t, executed for the Melbourne Jockey Club!"
iw wor d “murder of the" omitted after “the,”
or is Melbourne Jockey Club a new offense ? Anyway,
we want to hear more about the execution.
* * *
At a recent Governmental blanket art-union
down South, his Imperial Majesty rallied up his sub-
jects against a cockatoo fence, and the distribution was
at proceeded with. As the niggers numbered 110
and the blankets only reached 52, the majority of tbe
haricot-snake devourers —his sable Majesty among
the rest—were literally left out in the cold. Grasping
the situation with the gigantic brain of a Dave
Buchanan or Dan O’Connor, Ring Bungaree stepped
< or ward and thus addressed his gang d lo William Tell
on the Qessler grievance: “ Qemmen, dis ting is over—
you as hev got ’im blankets can gib ’im tree oobborn
cheers forde Queen, an’ you as haven’t better yan along
an cut ’im bark.” And amongst the first to “yan"
was the ’possum Czar himself.
* # #
While an enterprising Italian impresario was in
Sydney with an opera troupe for a brief musical season,
the engagements of local musicians and others were
necessarily limited to his stay in this city. “I say,
Blankini," queried an inquisitive interviewer, “ have ]
you engaged Jobkins for your company P *’ " O yaes I
for the season,” replied the Signor. “And have you
secured Altavoce, the tenor ? ’’ Ah, yaes, of course;
for the season," said Blonkiui—who could think of
netbing but his season. “ And by the way, Blankini,”
pursued the interrogator, “ who is that Signora Alta-
voce you announce f Is she Signor Altavooe’s wife ? ’’
“ Oh, yaes, sairtainly," cried Blankini with a grin, " for
the season, for the season 1"
* * *
We say “ as drunk as a lord, and as sober as a
judge.” How absurd. Who ever heard of a lord
being drunk, or a Judge ? [[Thereis not the slightest
earthly necessity for pursuing this subject further.—
Ed. B.]
* # *
The T.M.C.A. are greatly worried just now to
know what they should do to make their cheerful
weekly meetings more attractive. We are not very
sound on this question ourselves, but we would like to
suggest that a bar be erected at one end of the room,
and a non-sectarian skittle alley at the other. Johnny
Cowan might also be engaged to deliver a course of lec-
tures, or Fred. Leston might be bought over to sing a
couple of his .new comic hymns. If these shows don't
draw, we would suggest the engagement of the eight
men-women grenadiers in the “ Tambour-Major,” to
nurse the weak-kneed members, and read The Bulletin
to them—and if these attractions don’t drag the erring
sinner from his wicked ways, we’d insure the room for a
heavy sum, and then look round some dark night to see
how a little kerosene oil and lighted straw would act
on it.
* • *
He was a recent arrival from the “ Continong,”
and, having listened to much wisdom on the tram-
way question, he rose and said, “ Gentlemen, you
are all barking up the wrong tree. You don’t want
trams out here at all. What you want in Sydney now is
a couple of hundred big gondolas. Any careful, steady
gondola-driver could earn a pound a day by paddling up
Oxford-street alone." It had rained for three days pre-
vious to the stranger’s chat, and his remarks seemed to
smell of sapience. Any soft goods man having gondolas
in stock can send ns a couple along before the next rain
—and slate them up to the City Fathers.
• » «
In the monthly report of the B. and F. Bible
Society we read, in an article entitled " Bible Tour in
Persia," that the reverend tourist allowed a poor priest
to turn his wife and children into the street to spend
the night there, in order that he (the tourist) might
occupy the room, in which he states, he had a pleasant
evening with some friends. Now the man who runs a
show, of whatever description, should be careful that
no one gets a peep under the umbrella. Such proceed-
ings as that above mentioned aren’t calculated to make
the general public respect the Bible tourist. The
society should get a newspaper man to edit their
pamphlets.
• » «
From start to finish there is always a galaxy of
feminine loveliness on view in “ Tambour-Majer.” We
have seen “ Hamlet" played here to an eighteen-penny
house, and we have seen Meyerbeer’s “ Les Huguenots"
Serformed in a theatre where a coach and four could
ave been driven round the stalls without touching a
single soul. And yet the season has now set in when
night after night fond wives mourn over the long hours
their weary lords are toiling for their daily, bread.
« » «
Thus the Northern Daily Argus “ We
quite agree with our police magistrate, that the land-
lords of hotels and public houses should, on the receipt
of their licenses, be sworn in as special constables, as
is done in New Zealand. It would save a very great
deal of annoyance, and give the publican power to act
in the absence of the police, when he or his customers
were being insulted by a drunken man, who could not
take his liquor without its overtaking him, and render-
ing him, for the time being, incapable of explaining
satisfactorily whether he was a biped or a quadruped.”
This northern idea is good. It would work well here.
For instance, how nice it would have been for host
decks to have been able to “ act in the absence of the
police" after Peter Buckley hod drunk 2000 “ Bishop
Barkers," and how convenient it would have been fer
Buckley I To-morrow Buckley might have been Premier;
to-day he’s a “ demnition dead body." How nice it
really would be to combine the forte of the bobby with
the suweiter in mo do of the boniface—the cold meat of
the policeman with the beer of the publican. Yes, Sir
Henry, please make all tbe publican’s J’s.P. at once.
Don’t wait till they’ve carried all the plunder into retire-
ment.
* * *
Patents of nobility are sold cheaply in Italy.
A saloon-keeper in Turin obtained one a few weeks ago
for £l6O. If Mr. Cocks had only consulted John Davies
now, how different things might have been. However,
at Turon we may yet be able to do as they do at Turin.
* * ♦
Sir John Robertson declared at Tamworth that
the Dxilt Telegraph is a “thing.” This is wrong,
very wrong of Sir John. We fly to the rescue of our
beloved contemporary, and, trotting out a venerable
joke, declare our conviction that the Telegraph is
no-thing.
♦ * ♦
Save your old newspapers. They are making
coffins omt of paper. Here’s a use for the Federal
Australian. Save your old Bulletins also; some
people prefer to keep their dead in spirits. But perhaps
the Daily Telegraph may seem more suitable.
* * #
The young Princes witnessed a corroboree in
South Australia the other day. It is stated to have
been the largest corroboree since Prince Alfred was
round that way. But that was a big corroboree when
Alf. was there. It must have been a boomer, in fact, or
his Royal Highness would inevitably have said
graciously, “ Dear me, yes, truly exquisite. Thank you
very much, Mr. Mayor. Here, Yorke, pack that cor-
roboree with the other specimens. And see that you
get it I"
* * *
The Hon. Patrick Perkins, the Queensland
Minister for Lands, appears to be in a very complete
way going for the Queensland Evangelical Stand-
ard. Pat is a “ Roman,” and the Standard has, of
course, according to the amiable system of “ religious "
papers, slated him on all possible occasions. Perkins
has quietly waited his chance, and served the Stand-
ard with a writ for £2OOO. At least the Brisbane
Observer says he has. But this is only one part of a
strategical combination. Mr. Perkins must possess a
grim sort of humour. He has retained to appear for
him the Hon. Sam. Griffith, Q.C., leader of the Oppo-
sition, together with the Attorney-General, and Fred.
Cooper, M.L.A., a Government supporter whose seat
Griffith is likely to challenge as soon as Parliament
meets, on the ground that Government gave Fred, a
bone by setting him to revise the Queensland statutes.
Then again, Sam. Griffith’s father, the Rev. E. Griffith,
is one of the most vehement supporters of the Evan-
gelical Standard, and a frequent contributor—or used
to be. So that when Sam., Q.C., addresses the jury for
the plaintiff it will become his bounden duty to convince
them that his venerable parent is an atrocious old
scallawag, or mixed up with “sich." This does not
exhaust Pat. Perkins’ resources, however. If the Bris-
bane Courier be correctly informed, the hon. gentle-
man has, simultaneously with commencing the action
for damages, bought a lot of shares in the Standard.
Thus he will be entitled to a voice in the management
of the defence, and if he only hold shares enough he
can compel the proprietory to consent to a verdict
for the full amount. The prayers of Protestant con-
gregations are requested for an Evangelical Standard
in a situation of perplexity and danger.
« * *
Those novelists across the pond are at it again.
In a recent fashionable tale in a fashionable female
journal, we read: “ Our hero, the duke in disguise, then
clasped the sobbing form of his weeping bride; im-
printed one long passionate kiss on her marble brow,
and then hurried on board the steamer which was about
to sail for Bathurst.” And yet we have an Agent-
General at home, and pay him salary enough to keep
two prima donnas, or the whole of the wild beasts in a
big menagerie. Fancy the pleasure of sailing the
Potosi across the Zig-zag 1
• * «
A pastor in a New England town was very fond
of drawing spiritual lessons for the good of his flock
from any passing event of interest, and when Blondin
crossed Middle Harbour, he drew the attention of his
people to the beautiful similarity existing between
Blondin’s feat and our journey through life:
** Imagine, my dear Christian friends, that you see him
performing his perilous journey. He looks neither to
the right nor to the left—is heedless alike of praise on
the one hand or blame on the other. He pushes on, on
his straight and narrow path, and finally, reaching the
end of his line in safety, is rewarded by the plaudits of
an admiring crowd below. And now, dear friends, may
your course be as straight and true ; may you deviate
neither to the right nor to the left, but continue in the
narrow path I have pointed out for you; and when the
end shall come, may each of you find himself or herself
at the end of a straight line with an admiring crowd
below." Pact.
* • »
A Chinaman’s vegetable cart travelled allround
Morpeth the other day, with the words “ Small Pox”
written in large letters in chalk upon it. John won-
dered what mode business dull, while yet the people
smiled. "Nosavee.”
• * *
Thomas Carlyle was an ungrateful man. In his
“ Reminiscences,” recently published, while estimating
not very highly the merits of such contemporaries as
Shelley, Lamb, and Praed, he has forgotten to place on
record anything concerning our illustrious Apostle of
Protection—David Buchanan, Esq., M.P. When we
read David’s account of his interview with Carlyle—the
warmth of their meeting—the sparks of wit that flew
from the massive minds of the two sages—and how, in
a burst of enthusiastic admiration, David told the
philosopher of Chelsea that “The French Revolution"
he had read a dozen times, each time with increased
delight, and that he thought it the “ most wonderful
book extant," we are surprised, or, rather, mortified, to
find that David’s name does not even appear in the
“ Reminiscences," nor does Carlyle even hint at their
meeting. But men of genius are a jealous class.
* * •
The most odious kow-towing was the order of
the day in Adelaide during the Princes’ visit. The
Rxqistbr, which professes not to print poetry (in its
columns, has, in strict keeping with this rule, published
an “ode," from which the following is extracted
“ Farewell! we must say it in sorrow.
For sadness the little word means;
No Princes to greet us to-morrow :
Sweet rosebuds so fresh in your teens."
Why couldn't the peet have worked in something about
beans P Fancy a British middy being a sweet rosebud I
What is the service coming to when they have rosebuds
in the navy ? There are quite enough cabbage heads in
it already; but a sweet rosebud—pah I The Adelaide
people are quite too consummately utter. Mr. Slum
must really be the poet of the Register, inlwhioh, by
the way, we also read the following:—
“ The Princes and (Mr. D. ,C. F. Moodie.—Wo are
informed that one of the last acts of the Royal Princes,
Albert Victor and George of Wales, before leaving
Adelaide, was to inspect the cane—gold-mounted, and
inscribed by some Melbourne gentlemen—with which
Mr. D. G. F. Moodie struck Mr. A. T. Clark, M.P. and
J.P., the 'Present Victorian Commissioner of Customs,
for insulting Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain,
their grandmother. The inspection took place at Gov-
ernment House on the 18th inst., exactly one year after
the event alluded to occurred." It is said by a local
paper that “the very last act of the Royal Princes,
Albert Victor and George of Wales, before leaving South
Australia and her snobs, was to inspect the pot-stick—
bottomed and inscribed by some Whitechapel gentle-
men —with which Signora Bridget O’Hooligan, L.W.1.0.
(Late Washerwoman In Ordinary) to Her Majesty the
Queen, stirred the Royal linen, as she phrases it in her
Spanish-English, “ Whin the duds was on the bile.”
The inspection took place in the pigsty, which had been
prepared for the ceremony and gaily decorated .with dry-
ing clothes."
* * *
About 2 a.m. on Monday last, the chapel-keeper
of Pitt-street Congregational Church was awakened by
a terrific noise, which sounded as if some house in the
vicinity had fallen down. On entering the church, he
discovered that a large portion of the ceiling imme-
diately over the pulpit had descended, and had com-
pletely smashed the minister’s chair and book-board.
Had the accident occurred during service, it would
most undoubtedly have killed the officiating clergyman
and blinded the choir. It would have given people an
increased admiration for what some clergymen call
" Providence ” had the plaster immediately over the
seats of Alderman and Alderman come
down during, not after, service.
• * *
This is positively the very latest lie about the S.P.
The other day Sir Henry sat in state in his office, when
he was suddenly aroused from his meditations by the
appearance before him of an hirsute individual of un-
prepossessing appearance. “ What in thunder do ysu
want ?" enquired the Premier, haughtily; “do you
knew, sir, that you’re standin’ before Sir Benry
Parkes ?” The visitor cleared his husky throat, and in
a voice of emotion said, " Sir Henry, I have dodged the
policeman at the door and the messenger in the passage.
I have a favour to ask of you.” The great man gazed at
the ragged interlocutor, and then said, “ Ah, you want
to take Hoskins’ place until he is better, I suppose.
Well, were you on my committee at Kiama ?" “ No,"
replied the man. “ Did you canvass for me at Canter-
bury ?” “ Never,” was the answer. “ Did you vote for
me at East Sydney P” "No fear," replied the uncouth
one. “ Then I can’t do anything for you." On this
the seedy visitor drew up his coat-sleeve, and, exhibit-
ing an arm well decorated with pustules, said, “ I want
you to send me down to the Faraway, Sir Henry, as
I’ve got small-pox in its suppurative stage.” At this
moment Dr. Alleyne, the health officer, suddenly
appeared, to give his daily report to the Dictator, when
he was instructed to examine the patient. He did so,
and confirmed the man’s statement in an elaborate
“ diagnosis." The result being known, Sir Henry rang
for the messenger, and told him to go for the police-
man ; and on the appearance of that officer, the Premier
immediately ordered him to arrest patient, messenger,
and doctor, and bear them off to quarantine without
delay. This is the situation at present. When anything
fresh turns up we will print an “extraordinaryfor,
ifa all the foregoing be true —we’d be very sorry to
vouch for the accuracy of it—Sir Henry Parkes will
have to go to the Faraway too. Lie back, agents.
V.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Tuesday last was Coronation Day.
For the woman who has long been a wife, death
has few terrors.
No woman need despair of fortune so long as
she remains unwedded.
Marry in haste and repent at leisure, is no truer
than marry at leisure and repent for ever.
Mrs. Garfield is the first mother who has seen her
son inaugurated President of the United States.
She who converts her lover into a husband
transforms a worshipper into an intolerable despot.
The ultimate effect of marriage upon man is to
make all women appear lovely except her ho has married.
The couples who want children have already
grown apart, and hope to be re-united through the
offspring.
The brightest idea we can have of heaven comes
from thinking that there is neither marriage nor giving
in marriage.
We may love all our lives without satiety,
unless we marry. Then we have satiety without
satisfaction.
The fact that women who wed once and who are
widowed are apt to wed again, only proves the force and
the evil of habit.
How many persons marry a second time to
revenge themselves for what they have suffered in the
first experiment ?
The only living representative of Sir Walter
Scott's family is a great grand-daughter, aged 29, re-
siding at Abbotsford.
Pity is near akin to love outside of wedlock;
inside of wedlock it is another name for contempt, and
soon destroys all hope of sympathy.
A fashionable lady in New Orleans has the credit
of originating and carrying out successfully the novel
freak of giving a party at which tissue-paper dresses
only should be worn. The important tissue papers come
in all the delicate shades, and in very brilliant and
vivid ones. The affair was as to astonish
even the originator.
Lady Castlereagh, to preserve the beauty of her
arm, was vaccinated in the leg. She suffered dreadfully,
and became bedridden for some time.
Three years of luxurious splendour have ruined
the Langtrys, and their furniture in the London house
(Norfolk-street) has been sold by auction.
In a certain southern town the way of love leads
to the lockup and gaol. The belles of the district are the
daughters of the lockup-keeper and gaoler.
The way to Hymen’s temple is over the grave of
love. When a wife has a secret to tell you, be sure it is
the uncovered secret that she hates her husband.
At the Adelaide baby show seventy babies were
exhibited. There were over 2000 persons present,
although rain (and squalls) interfered with the atten-
dance.
There are 1,800,000 marriageable girls in France,
and Brigham Young has left no competent successor.
Yet people say that human affairs are providentially
ordered.
An anti-bachelor association has been formed at
Morpeth, with big ladies’ committees at Hinton, Ray-
mond Terrace, Dunmore, &o. The Morpeth committee
numbers 43 single ladies.
A young lady, six weeks after marriage, on being
asked if she was troubled with cold feet, simpered
hesitatingly and with ingenuous simplicity, “ Ye-yes;
but—but they’re not my own.”
At a late wedding in England the sons of the
Hon. Alan Egerton—cousins of the bride—wore suits of
light blue, in imitation of the Duke of Westminster’s
** Blue Boy," by Gainsborough.
The member for the Huon constituency, Tas-
mania, is likely to be unseated for bribery, having
promised the wife of an elector a new bonnet if she
persuaded her husband to vote for him.
During the recent visit of the Victorian Minister
of Public Works to Maryborough, the Mayor introduced
him to the local “ corporation ” in the shape of a fat
woman, weighing twenty-three stone, resident at the
Chinese camp.
The sin of Adam and Eve was eating of the
fruit of the tree of knowledge, by which they learned
for the fit* t time that they were man and wife. After
that they lost all capacity for happiness; the charms of
Eden were in vain.
When ex-Queen Isabella of Spain buys real
estate in America she does it under the name of
Flannagan. The old lady doesn’t want it to be known
that she is speculating. She owns valuable property on
Capitol Hill, Washington.
The Gundagai Times says that an Adelong
storekeeper recently sold a Chinese girl, his servant, to
a Wagga Celestial for £93. The purchaser conveyed
the article away in a buggy, and was accompanied by
some half-dozen Celestials.
Advertisement by an Auckland marriage-agent:
—“ Matrimonial. —I hereby warn those parties whom
(under a solemn promise of handsome payment) I found
good wives for, that if they do not at once fulfil their
engagements, I will gibbet them in Herald and News.
—T. B. Hannaford, Queen and Darby streets.”
A singular marriage took place [the other day at
Auckland. A long-engaged pair were to have been
united in the bonds of wedlock on Tuesday, but when
the swain came to be looked for it was found that he
had just married his fiancee's sister, a girl o( sixteen years.
The other girl had her outfit prepared, and is now over-
whelmed with grief.
Mrs. Parnell (that is to say, the agitator’s newly-
wedded bride), has been in America since 1874
Before that she lived in Paris for a long time. She
became familiar there with all the famous men and
women of the day, and saw all the glory of the reign of
Napoleon 111. She was intimately acquainted with the
Empress Eugenie. She has a vast amount of know-
ledge of European courts, and is, all in all, a very
interesting lady.
The writer of “London Town Talk” in the
Argus says that the most noticeable feature of the
portrait of two sisters in the coming Academy is the hair,
the gloss and beauty of which are due to a daily dressing
in champagne. People, on reading this, want to know
where the liquor so used, er rather so abused, goes to—
whether it isn’t re-bottled “ for exportation.” History
solemnly records that the ladies of the Court of Yer-
sailles, prior to the French Revolution, were daily
supplied with baths of milk, which, after use, were
returned to the Marchioness Du Lait for the regular
consumption of ordinary customers.
Says the Carcoar Curl-Paper ;— “A young
man was sent to gaol for six months, at Melbourne, for
pestering a young lady with his unrequired love, and
threatening her father with a sudden death.” “ Unre-
quired ” love is good, but why unrequited P Was it
a damaged article, or had the Melbourne girl so much
already on hand that the preferred parcel was crowded
out owing to a press of other matter P We think the
lady made a big mistake. Any young man who would
bore his lady love to death, and scalp her father, and
poison her mother, and batter|ia tbe skulls of her other
relations with an old axe, is bound to turn out a careful
loving husband, if he is only allowed at first to indulge
his little mania for holding funerals.
The story goes that in the States Sara Bern-
hardt was asked by a devoted admirer to accept a mag-
nificent but not particularly artistic coronet or tiara of
gold. It was excessively heavy, and as the clumsy
donor had omitted to detach the price ticket from the
case, Sara had the satisfaction of discovering that the
present was worth five thousand dollars. A little later,
on her return to New York, being desirous of turning
what Mr. Wemmick styled his "portable property"
into hard cash, she called in a jeweller to make a bid.
After applying the usual tests he coolly offered her
six guineas for the crown. Sara’s wrath changed
into the liveliest disgust on finding that the jeweller
was right in the estimate he formed. The costly jewel
was only copper, gilt.
He was a millionaire. She was the daughter of
her parents, who were quite as remarkable for their
poverty as for their respectability. The pair were
attending the ghastly festivities of a garden party,
lately given by one of the " upper crust.” Beneath a
spreading tree they sat; her lovely head reclined upon
his manly breast, and her raven tresses (30s. the set—
Wigzell’s best) hung loosely down in heart-rending
curls, toying with the zephyr breeze, and plastering
bandoline on his Sunday waistcoat. Slowly she raised
her beaming eyes to his, and placing her alabaster arms
round his portly form she sweetly said, “ Darling
Cbawles, will it be ever thus? Will our fuchar lives
be one celestial stream of roseate bliss—one soul-com-
mingled paroxysm of joy unutterable-one glittering
walk through elysium shades and sylvan dells P Oh,
yes! I feel it will —it will, Chawles—my own dear
Chawles (crescendo allegro con passionate molto) let us
swear, swear, swear e-turr-nal love.” He, with a gape
and a yawn, “Certainly—l wonder when the dickens
they’re goin' to give ns something to eat at this darned
old second-hand funeral! " They will be “ matched ”
next Monday—or, not to put too fine a point on it, the
Eev. Mr. Blank will combine the vulgarly material with
the sublime aesthetic. A-hem 1 Pass the zoedone.
An eminent and highly-placed divine, on taking
over his new diocese, was staying at the house of one of
the local grandees. After dinner, one evening, he was
challenged to a game of chess, of which he was fond,
by one of the daughters of the hostess. The players
sat down to a small one-legged table, on which the board
was engraved, and were soon rapt in the intricacies of
the game. Tea and coffee were brought in later, and on
the hostess taking a cup in her own fair hand to offer to
his reverence, she was horror-struck to see him fall
back in his chair, pale apparently with fright. On being
eagerly questioned as to what the matter was, he asked
that a doctor might be sent for. The company by this
time seeing that something had happened, were crowd-
ing round the chess-table, and one of them stepping
forward informed the divine that he was a doctor, and
would be glad to be of service. The doctor then ques-
tioned the ecclesiastic as to his ailment. “ I have been
feeling for the last ten minutes a great irritation in my
leg. I pinched and scratched for a bit, and could not
even feel the pinches. At last, growing desperate, I
grabbed my knee with my whole force, and, horrible to
say, I fear I must be paralyzed, for I felt nothing.”
And the good man again sank back, beads of perspiration
standing on his forehead. The young lady, his anta-
gonist, got up, and blushing rosy red, relieved his mind
by saying—“ Oh, mamma, I wondered what the Bishop
was pinching my—a —a —me for 1 ”


Public Compan
The mercantile ban]
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. ffm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Qei
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director—Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Alexandi
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England f
HOUSES furnished at the C
Arcade, on Time Payments.
street.
WE repectfully invite the ]
Show Rooms, Central Fur
31, and 33 Park-street.
WE Furnish Houses fror
Central Furnishing Arcad
ark-street. 1
CENTRAL FURNISHING
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, and
This establishment is now open,
requisite for household farniahin ;
large and extensive department sol
glassware.
HLEVY and Co. beg to i
• public that they have now c
FURNITURE ESTABL
Nos. 29, 31, t
gJREAT CASH CLEAEA]
BOOKS, FANCY GOODS, and
REBUILDING OP PR!
16 AND 18 HUNTER
The present buildings being not 1
rapidly increasing business,
Messrs. Turner and Hi
have made arrangements to re
additions) and to save expense of n
offer the Whole of their Fiue Stock
ery, and Fancy Goods to the Publii
OVER COST PRICE, and in s<
COST.
TURNER and HEb
P.
16 and 18 HUNTER I
R. LA]
Wholesale and Re
PRODUCE MER(
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
48 Qeorge-street West (late Par
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near W
Public Compau
C
ORNWALL FIRE AND M
ANCE COMPAN'
CAPITAL, £100,0(
EESEEVE FUND
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AN
Agents,
348 GEOKGE-STEE
SYDNEY.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANC
YICTOEIA (LIMIT]
Established a.d. 181
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Syi
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chau
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life
granting of Annuities and Endowme:
STEICTLY MUTUAL, awarding ti
proportionate amount of the entire
Society at every distribution thereol
LOANS granted on Mortgage or oi
combined with Life Assurance.
wa&a
Ee
INDUSTRIAL & PEOYIDEN'
BENEFIT BUILDING AN;
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and tl
for Investors. Eight per cent, les
borrowers. Eight per cent, and ]
investors. The highest current rate
on Deposits. Prospectus and all i
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM
Excelsior land inyei
BUILDING COMPANY & B
The above Company Sells Land i
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate
sham, a few minutes walk from tl
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance
£4OO do. £4O do. do.
£BOO do, £BO do. do.
All information at the Company’
Street. WILLIAM
NCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SEEVICE BANKING
CIAL PEOVIDENT SOCIEI
In the event of loss of sit
MEMBE ES are entitled to receiv
with the amount insure
The Society also uses its influenc*
suitable re-engageme
For further particulars apply to
G. HOETON MOEI
Sei
Went
E
Applications for Agencies
Photographer
PARLOUR ST
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) P
805 GEOEGE STI
Opposite the Eailway Te:
UNADULTERATE
BAB//VC POWI
India, and China Tea
705 GEORGE STREET, HA
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new wa
We bee to call special attention of the pnblio to our Bj
Blend, 2/-; Finest Royal Blend, 2/6; Superior Queen s Blen
Packed by us, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee of pui
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b; also, catties, boxes, ;
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.-
I 1 DA
/I |I I '' AWARDED the
mm „J°„ rS !l n 5?
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
MANUFACTOEY:
BON-ACCOED
WOEKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Con
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad wi
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantit;
in nnmn eases almost nil. Sevan nounds of Tallow will make 100 cubii
London mortgage, loan, and
DISCOUNT BANK,
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James'
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms—UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OP SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui-
ties, Personal effects, &c.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acceptances, &c., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address. THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizaheth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
First Horse £3OOO
Second Horse £lOOO
Third Horse £STO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non Starters (divided) £2OOO
6 Prizes of £lOO each £6OO
6 Prizes of £5O each £3OO
£llO Prizes of £lO each £llOO
This is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO ea ch,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
Wherever possible P.O. Order should be forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODORE BROWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z.
rji H 0 S. J. BOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BEASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHUEST-STEEET, SYDNEY.
WH. A R I E L L,
• PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-steeet, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
E. Whittingham k Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft k Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow k Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon k Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt k Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.


Tobacconists
E » S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Baby, Bird's Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
169 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
*
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
Hose are genuine but the BOUND TIN TAGr-
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOB or YANKEE DOODLE.
15
DIXSON & SONS,
TOBE STEEET, SYDNEY,
SMOKE : y
EUREKA CIGARETTES*
MILD, FRAGRANT, A DELICIOUS.
3)
A
m
&
A
Manufactured by
T. SAT W E LL,
AT TUB
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney, , .... -
Business Announcements
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
G.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERT RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, PleyeTs, A ocher’s,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, A Co.'s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clongh
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
852 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wyny ard-street,
Sydney.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER & IBONFOUNDER.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Works; SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAI
OVENS,
DEED
BOXES,
Ac., Ac.
UiWlHi roWtCWHNMmrOBSERVATCfI
<4 Watch Makers.,4*
''V, - and Opticians,
|
y <3
25 Hunter Srfi Efr Jf-
C*N s w
Illustrated Catalogues post f rt« on A}. ion
o
r
FOR GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INSTRUMENT
PIANOS. ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’g is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASI
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENERBEIN, Jon.,
{Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
in AND P. w. MASOI
DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
land, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT;
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Jjl 0 W L E E’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNI
o J^S, nted . *° Purchase specimens of Australian Mina
ana Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
• ■ Curata
Chertists and Druggists
J 3 UB L I C NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilions Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nats
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
'1 U. Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
® ’ Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gk>ut and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
681 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Niab Htdk Park Coenke.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. £. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK POE THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies
EAMES’S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6, & 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
CAUTION. —In onr style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
It Is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boscßee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses. For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d.;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
OQALLALA LINIMENT
was introduced into London
two years ago, where thousands of cases were cured
—and one year in Sydney; and some of the worst cases
of Rheumatism have been cured in a short time by
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long standing, it will cure.
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Aches it will cure in a
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by a few applications.
HEAD OFFICE :
89 WATERLOO-ROAD, LONDON;
and
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE AGENTS. PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
MANZANITA FRUIT PILLS.
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented for Liver complaints.
Thousands of people in Sydney have used them, and
have been cured of Biliousness, Indigestion, Costive-
ness, Sick Headaches, and all complaints arising from
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO ROAD, LONDON:
and 107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNE Y. ’
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
AGfENTS.
Chemists and Druggists
T
AEE NO MORE
but try
BANDERSON’S
PODOPHTLLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do yon SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Sanderson's
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
Do yon Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Banderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do yon Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
BANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do yon constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Banderson's
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are your children sick at any time ? Yon
can safely give diem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
W Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD BOW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
B
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public conld have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instan*
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External Sores when the some
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph,
son’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained P
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily Increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free frem any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOB JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented— *
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD BOW A COMPANY.
ALL OF PHARMACY,
(Late Felhisohiu’s)
78 KING STREET,
Dispensing Establishment.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet requisites, Ac. Patent Medicines sold below the
English marked price. All articles carefully selected.
D. HALE, Mxjuoeb, Chemist.
H
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOB
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
%* They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to oostiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SIOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET STONET.
COUGH WHILE YQU CAN! Because, aft<
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Coug
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, i
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pittstreet next 1
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appetite with the Ana-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVEBPOOL-STEEET-
Pamphlets gratis.
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TREATMENT for all
Nervous Disorders, which unfit sufferers for marriage,
Ac., Ac. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Chest, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—B T.
SELBY, Medical Herbalist, John-street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
PROFESSOR WEST’S Limited Adult EVEN-
ING CLASSES, Thursdays, 8 p.m. ; Children’s
Classes, Saturdays, 2 p.m.; select Adaft Classes, Satnr-
days, at 4 p.m., at Hall, 344 Castlereagh-street. Pupils
may join at any time. Private lessons on application.
Residence, 161 Liverpool street.
~|jl CLAEKE AND t qfa
Wholesale and Retail
POSTAGE STAMPS.
T B A M W A T TICKETS. [
G E O C E E S,
Are acknowledged to keep
• "J
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
. GROCERIES*
Country Orders promptly attended to.
19 S OXPOED STEEET
(Opposite Court-house),
AELINGHUES
I
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS.
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J L A ti E E
MANUFACTURES AND IMPORTER.
608 George-street.
VICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BOETHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT*:
Importer of Faperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brush ware.
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates, "
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORQE-STREET, SYDNEY.
JJOOTS!
BOOTS ! !
BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDEE S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO RESOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
CS” NOTE THE ADDRESS s
H. HILDEE,
•70 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.


'LADON’S HEALTH SALI
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALI
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALT
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALI
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALT
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALE
BLADON;S HEALTH SAT.I'
X combination of Oxygenated
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and 0
Taken according to direction
BLAJDON’S HEALTH SALUTE is
ration a remedy as a preventive or •
all Functional Irregularities of the
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitua
purities of the Blood, Sea-Siol
Indigestion, the effects propnced 1
diligence in rich food, er the a
beverages ;Gont, Rheumatism, Ac.;
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphthc
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, cli
diseases. It is especially serviceabl
and should entirely supersede the
aperients. Children take it with ]
ngorating effect of an occasional do
to successfully combat the insidious
It effectually destroys the Poison G
contracted in our daily walk thron
alterative and enriching qualities it
the vital fluid to perform, in a health
functions in the wonderful economy
piece—Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chemu
form.
BLADON'S HEALTH S
may Justly be termed a BLOOD DIS
PPBOYED BY THE
Government
10th J
" Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I h
that the parcel was received in go<
reason of my not writing to you befo
of my wishing that the * Saline ' shot
am now directed to inform you th
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS,
** I also can vouch for the same, ant
pleasant aperient.
“Mr. W. G. Bladon
I am. Sir,
"Tours faithl
“ Reginald
B LADON’S HEALTE
The Australian Chdbohm
" It is a
MOST REFRESHING EPFERYE
We can honestly recomn
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFA
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANT PRC
in the market."
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON. 1
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., 1
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GEN]
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J!
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all 1
Plain flgures—Low prio
MASON 13ROTI
esa?Sk 14 & i a cbvi
ADVANCE AUBTRA
Special Notice to Heads of Families, Managers
The Proprietors of THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
pace with the rapid advance now being made under the libers
South Wales, have just imported from LONDON, YIENN.
pricks !! TO SELL AT PARIS PRICES !! THE CHOIC:
Gentlemen’s, and Children’s BOOTS AND SHOES ever ye
FIRST CONSIGNMENT NOW READY. REGULAR
Come and see the newest style—the Parisian 5
Our large and increasing Wholesale Trade enables us to
FRANCE and GERMANY are competing fob our pat:
SUPERIOR QUALITY OF
And Enormous Reduction of
COME AND TAKE TOUR CHOICE FROM THE LEADING RIVAL
Latest French Invention, NEW FOOT DEFENCE, for
imparting artificial heat. A written guarantee gi
THE LARGEST STOCK OF COLONIAL BOOTS II
SUGGESTIONS OF SOME OF OUR
Eoonomists are specially invited to test the value of their re
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
THE GREAT CENTRAL BO
510 GEORGE STRET
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
o NOE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTofSOAP.
Trade nark “Ana and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
%>
0*
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879,
LATHEES PEEELT, SOFTENS WATER,
AKD SHOULD ALWAYS BB USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Securing Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
IS GHABL TTB PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
B. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
AKE touj purchases
THE EOTAL PUENISHINQ AECADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTEACTITE PEICBS.
A FEEE DISTEIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving foil informatdoa respecting economi-
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PUECHASEBS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BROTHER S,
LATM
W. B. CAMPBELL,
EOTAL PUENISHINQ AECADE,
426 * 428 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Eoyal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clock fer the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
Cr
REAT JEWELLERY SALE.
WATCHES, CLOCKS, AND JEWELLEET
At LESS than COST PEICE,
Owing to intended Extensive Alterations.
A. J. HUPTON,
656 George-street South ■
The place to enjoy a quiet game—Coffee Tavern
Billiard Room.—Anvr.
For sleeplessness—open and shut your eyes 30
times in succession.
Beef from Australian bullocks of not more than
7001 b., brings in England 45 per cent, more than that
from beasts of 9001 b. and over.
The Under-Secretary of the Postal Department,
fearful of an exodus from the branches under his
control, has put his veto on departmental exchanges.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
nncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
1 recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Xabl Tkbodobk Staigbe, analytical
chemist.”—Advt.
THE KOOKABURRA.
The fat of the land. —Petroleum.
Cheek wins—especially if it’s rosy.
Future of verb “ to love.” —To marry.
To prevent bad dreams. —Don’t go to sleep.
The sous of the Bussian Emperor are called
Czardines.
A skirmish is a short engagement. Many of
onr young ladies prefer skirmishes.
Wanted an analysis of the feelings of a man who
picked up a large pocket-book stuffed with tracts on
Honesty.
Why Constable M'Ghie failed to kill himself
with electric rat-poison. It was death to rats but not
to “ traps.”
Patrick, on seeing a locomotive for the first
time, declared that it was “ only a shtame-boat hunting
for wather."
It’s wonderful how quickly some journals pick
up news. An Auckland paper says “ Beaconsfielu
was a Conservative.”
He slammed the door and cut her face. She
summoned him for assault. Dismissed. Magistrates
said 'twas plain he adored her.
Enfant Terrible: “ I want a cake.” Mother:
“Ton have had five or six already.” “Them’s not the
ones I want. I want a fresh one.”
Country Magistrate: “ Prisoner, you’re dis-
charged this time, with a caution; but rf we see yon
here again, you’ll get twice as much."
A pastoral paper tells us of a man who in the
dusk of the evening saw a native bear as big as a grizzly.
How much wool do Wimmera bears shear a season P
Says a Cooktown paper: —“ A newspaper for
Idiots has been started in saxony. We have another
name for such journals out here, we call them minis-
terial organs.”
“ I never argy agin a success,” said the late
Artemus Ward, “when I see a rattlesnaix’s head
sticking out of a bole, I bear off the left, and say to my-
self, • That hole belongs to that snail.' ”
St. Michael’s debating society met the other
night to debate: " Which is the more useful, the eye or
the ear P” The young men, it is generally understood,
decided at length in favour of the mouth.
One of the newly-gazetted magistrates is named
Raymond Edward de Berternando Lopez. It will take
an hour to swear him in and another to relieve the per-
son administering the oath from lockjaw.
Said a speaker at the Sydney Church of England
Synod the other day:—"My reverend friend put his
finger upon the cream and gist of the whole matter, and
drove it home by a well directed blow on the head.”
“ Eggs should be sold by weight and not by the
dozen,” says a contemporary. Before assenting to
this we want to know whether or not the chicken
weighs more or less than the shell, yolk, and albumen.
The cantatrice one evening had a bad cold id
her dose, and next day received from an ardent admirer
a packet and note:—“ This is gouse greze ; melt it and
rub on the bridge of yore noze until kured. I luv you
to distraishun."
Bible reader to starving cabman, down with
gastric fever: " Have you been in the habit of attend-
ing church on the Sabbath day ? ” Cabby (faintly) s
“Can’t say az I hev, but (esgerly) I’ve druv a good
many parties there.”
A good thing in names comes from Adelaide,
which, happy city ! possesses a Mr. Bowyer “Smyjthe,”
a violinist. Wej supposej thatj nonej of hisj ancestors]
were! named] Smith], and thatj he] never] in] all his]
life] heard] of Wilhelm].
“ Illustrated with cuts!” said a mischievous
urchin as he drew his knife across the leaves of his
grammar. “Illustrated with cuts!” repeated the
schoolmaster, as he drew his cane across the back of
the mischievous urchin.
“ The ruling passion,” Ac. Gaol Doctor:
“ My poor fellow, it is my painful duty to tell yon that
there is no hope." Burglar s “ Well, then, give me a
bunch of skilington keys in one ’and, and a crowbar in
t’other, and let me die ’appy."
Hint for Housekeepers. Johnny.—" Hello,
Maggie, where are you going with the butter?’*
Maggie.—“O, I’ve been borrowing a pound from Mis.
Maggies. Ma says it’s so dear just now she’ll just
borrow a pound here and there and then pay it back
when it gets cheaper.”
There’s an up-country blacksmith who, when in
Melbourne, passes himself off as a “Majaw,” and wears
canary-celonred kids. Since his return from the
Southern Babylon he has cut up ene glove for an apron,
and is keeping the other to mend his bellows with.
During a former small-pox scare in London,
John Leech, of Punch, represented an old lady inter-
viewing the driver of a hansom cab. She seemed to
have doubts about the vehicle. “You needn’t be
afraid, ma’am,” the cabby remarked, “ I’ve had the off
wheel waocinated!”
Clipped from the St. Leonard’s Bxcobdbr s
A young bride was brought from Bourke to Sydney the
other day to enjoy her honeymoon. The husband took
his beautiful wife to an oyster saloon and called for two
plates of oysters. How amazed the young fellow was,
when he saw his bride trying to eat shells and all. She
had never seen an oyster before.” There are two jokes
in this.
The Campbelltown Poster states that their
go-a-head boneyard up there can now boast of a barber,
a photographer, a horse clipper, and facilities for com-
mitting suicide second to none in the Southern Hemi-
sphere. All Campbelltown wants now is a monte
player, a C.M.G., a teacher of deportment, a perambu-
lator builder, and a man thoroughly competent to mind
his own business.
The Chicago Argus thus describee an address
by the chairman of a board of underwriters" The
address of M. Bennett is a model of its kind. It is
crammed full of common sense; blossoms in every
paragraph with choicest flowers of rhetoric and scholar-
ship; and sparkles like a bushel-basket of lightning
bugs and fire-crackers, with rollicking wit and humor.
It is the address of an erudite, witty, genial man, who
is not only a first-class under-writer, but a brilliant
writer of any sort, over or under holts, best three in
five.”
TWO BACKYARDS.
In thy miauling, miaul, O cat!
In my backyard miaul, 0 cat!
Thou hast many hours to miaul,
Miaul some, please, next door, O cat 1
Those who calmly slumber there
Snore sonorously, O cat!
Of backyards there are a pair.
Miaul awhile in theirs, O cat 1
The man who does
not advertise.
The man who does
advertise.


Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Adv.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Bismarck still ill. Lumbago.
Charles Bright, we hear, is about to lecture at
Mudgee.
Mr. Hoskins better. Able to take carriage
exercise.
HGovernor and Miss Kennedy have returned to
Brisbane.
Sir John Robertson returned from the North
with his Lackey.
M. Drouyn de Lhnys, the eminent French
scientist, is dead.
Sir Samuel Wilson is the lessee of 116 runs in
New South Wales.
ffMr. Walshe, the Land Leaguer, comes to Syd-
ney, in all probability next week.
Lorillard, owner of Iroquois, is said to have
won £400,000 in bets on the Derby.
Mr. Chas. Dillon, the actor, dead. Father to
Mr. W. C. Dillon, lately at the Queen’s.
The Hon. James Service, ex-Premier of Victoria,
Las been elected a member of the Cobden Club.
Dr. Skae, Inspector of Lunatic Asylums, N.Z.,
has died of erysipelas. Leaves a wife and seven chil-
dren.
James Tyson has taken his money from the
banks. He doesn’t believe in 3 per cent, for fixed de-
posits.
Bishop Short has been elected chancellor, and
Chief Justice Wye vice-chancellor, of the Adelaide
University.
Owing to his great partiality for the Chinese,
Sir Arthur Kennedy has been nicx-named “ the small-
pox Mandarin."
Labouchere, of London Truth, made .£5OOO out
of his paper last year, and, it is said, had to pay £6OOO
to defend his lawsuits.
The Johnsonian Club, Brisbane, will, at Christ-
mas, publish a volume of contributions by members, d
la the Savage Club Papers.
Mr. O’Hea, member for Polwarth in the Vic-
torian Assembly, is very ill. He is a pressman, and
writes leaders for the Age.
Mr. J. J. Wallace, late of the St. Leonards’
Recorder, is about to start a paper—The Southern
Observer—at Murrumburrah.
F. C. Goyder has sold out his newly-formed far-
northern sheep station at a remunerative figure, and is
about to reside in Melbourne again.
At Cooney’s Creek, near Jugiong, live two
young men named Barr. One stands 6ft. 74in. in his
stockings. His brother, aged 19, is 6ft. 6in.
Dr. Angus Munro, drowned near Wangaratta,
is the third medical officer of the Beechworth Lunatic
Asylum who has met his death by drowning.
The cause of Archibald Forbes’ prostration at
’Frisco was the re-opening of a gun-shot wound re-
ceived during his European battle experiences.
A memorial to Batman, founder of the colony of
Victoria, is proposed, but there appears to be some
doubt as to the exact spot where his remains lie !
Mr. Weld-Blundell, M.L.A., of Queensland, has
broken his arm. He is one of the “ sub-section," and
Sam. Griffith probably wishes it had been his neck.
The three grand-nephews of Edmund Burke,
the orator, are in London, in deep poverty. They are
lads of considerable promise; the youngest is only
twelve.
Sir John Robertson, while coming from Grafton
to Armidale, turned off his road to visit the grave of a
companion of 50 years ago, “ when we were boys to-
gether, John.”
Mr. Wyon, assistant parliamentary librarian,
died very suddenly of heart-disease on board the Manly
steamer Emu on Saturday night. He was a young man,
and had only recently been appointed to his position.
Before Mr. William Forster left for England to
Msume the agent-generalship, he was unable to realise
£2OOO for his property on the Parramatta. He has
now sold it to speculators for £17,000, and keeps the
pick.
It having been suggested to the Prince of Wales
that if he would look in upon the studio of a certain
struggling artist, the news of such a favour might turn
the scales for the painter, he good-naturedly drove to
the atelier at once.
Lady John Manners is the authoress of the in-
teresting details of Lord Beaconsfield’s private life and
character which appeared in the Times soon after his
death. We are glad to learn that she intends to pub-
lish a further instalment.
Mr. J. B. Castieau, the able governor of Mel-
bourne gaol, has been appointed Inspector-General
of the Victorian Penal Department, rice Mr. G. O.
Duncan. Mr. P. Dwyer, of Geelong gaol, succeeds (by
seniority) Mr. Castieau at Melbourne.
Mr. Aid. J. G. White, who has one of the finest
families in these parts, is the great apostle of vegetari-
anism in the North. “ Physic-ally," Mr. White has
nothing to do with the doctors, but being, amongst other
things, an undertaker, he never offends them.
Queen Victoria has accepted the tacit legacy of
the late Earl’s friendship for Lord Rowton; it is per-
fectly understood that his place in the Court circle is an
exceptional one, and it is said that he is to become
private secretary to Her Majesty in a short time.
Melbourne Punch is publishing “ Young
Ireland in Australia; A Fragment of Australian His-
tory, by Sir Charles Gavan Duffy, K.C.M.G.” It’s a
withering satire —at least it will be thought such by
everyone who knew Sir Charles as a Victorian politi-
cian.
Sir Samuel Wilson, who visits Sydney but once
in five years, derives an income of £150,000 a year from
stations which he leases from the Government at an
annual rental of £4BO. But a tax on absentees would
be a gross interference with the rights of propertv. of
course.
We hear that Mr. J. Brunton Stephens, the
Queensland poet, is engaged upon a new conception. It
is, we are told, his magnum opus ; and in view of the high
encomiums which his former works received at the
hands of the most competent critics at home, we have
now something to look forward to.
Dr. Youl, City Coroner of Melbourne, has
met with a buggy accident, and broken two of his ribs."
We wonder where your broken ribs
You’ll mended. Doctor, get them ;
Oh, wouldn’t Dr. Beaney give
A good round sum to set them!
Th o only painting extant of Captain Matthew
imaers, a life of whom, by the way, will one day be
the world b y Mr - J - J- Shillinglaw, F.R.G.S.,
oi Melbourne, was exhibited at Melbourne Inter-
national, and will be taken back to Mauritius by Mons.
Court erCler ’ the assisfcant secretary to the Mauritius
. ero is another Sir George Innes in the world,
T.rf^.k S . ere * 8 another Sir Henry Parkes. Sir George
er *' w ? — or ra ther Sir George number one, for he
is a baronet—lives in England and dabbles extensively
“W business, out of which, it would appear from
money legal proceedin S s . he has not yet made any
The Daily Tanglefoot is wrong again. As
twi ° WS 80 mu °h about everything, and nothing in par-
askprt4wi.may Ba y that Mr. G. A. Lloyd has been
of o.«r hetl ? er .? r not he would accept the Collectorship
vacn.nf°K m ® the event of that position being rendered
George said— retlrement of Mr - Duncan. In reply,
wifb ll Rising Bathurst correspondent tells us,
Arth, r » vf 6 to a Paragraph in our last, that Mr.
of vli, Harkl y* son o f ■Sir Henry Barkly, ex-Qovernor
worV-^k’. 18 a survivor of the Orphens. Mr. Barkly
tarv "T h's /ather to Cape Colony, as private secre-
B°itfe lr Fre e re' yS retirfiment remained in office
Gian william was once shot through the
clla a £ r m V 1 ac tion, the ball passing through the mus-
• He has the power of closing his right hand, but |
not of opening it. He has therefore a contrivance fitted
along his arm and in the palm, which, with a self-acting
spring, keeps the hand open, except when the muscles
are exerted to close it.
Those —and there should be many in Sydney—
who are desirous of subscribing to the memorial por-
trait of the late Mr. W. S. Lyster, should send their
cheques to the hon. treasurer, Mr. George L. Allan,
Collins-st., Melbourne. The picture will be a large one,
will be painted by the eminent Mr. Folingsby, and will
be placed in the Victorian National Gallery.
The Hon. John Eales, M.L.C., of Ductenfield
Park, has been ill, but he is himself again. Duckenfleld
may be briefly described as something. The finest
mansion, the best ball-room, best billiard-room, largest
and costliest conservatories in the colonies. Well, yes ;
about £360,000. From Duckenfleld goes this year a crack
candidate for the Maribymong Plate and the Derby.
Mr. Charles Isaac Watson, writing in the Shoal-
haven News, says:—“ I certainly have, with some fair
amount of success—and, if I may be allowed to say,
pride—started twelve newspapers in New South Wales,
and I do not think that any man living will question my
claim to have started, edited, printed, and published
the first daily newspaper in the Southern hemisphere.”
It is a curious fact that of three brothers, the
Bradburns, one was lost 16 years ago in the Burnett
(Q.) bush and afterwards found dead; the second
brother was missed from Monduran Station three years
since and has not since been heard of; while the third,
Walter Bradbum, disappeared from Tahiti, Tiaro, a
few weeks ago, and has ever since been unsuccessfully
searched for.
We (Central Australian) regret to learn
that an assault has been committed on the editor of the
Cobae Heeaed by some irate lady, who inflicted a cut
over his left eye. It is unnecessary to say that we
have no sympathy with assaults on editors, and of
course it is unpleasant to be cut by a lady. Doubtless
the Cobar Police Court will have an opportunity of
showing its appreciation of such proceedings.
A silver casket, which had been for many years
in the possession of the Disraeli family, was placed
between the inner and outer shells of the coffin of the
late earl. It contained a recently-taken colored photo-
graph of the deceased, and had previously been sent to
Sheffield for tbe purpose of being soldered and covered
with nickel silver, in order to render it as lasting as
possible. The weight of the casket was two and a half
pounds of solid silver.
Mr. Hartley Williams, whom it is proposed to
appoint to the vacancy caused on the bench of the Vic-
torian Supreme Court by the death of Mr. Justice
Barry, is, though hardly of middle age yet, unrivalled
in his colony as a pleader, and is leader of the common
law bar. He is tbe son of the late Mr. Justice Williams,
of Victoria, who died some years ago. And, by the way,
his Honer Mr. Justice Molesworth has been very
unwell, but is understood to be better now.
The Rev. J. N. Dalton, the young Princes’
tutor, has many friends in the colonies. It will be re-
membered that he was here with the Galatea. Lieu-
tenant Curzon-Howe, of the Bacchante, was a midship-
man on board the same frigate. Navigating Lieutenant
Herbert Roxby was here in the Liverpool with the fly-
ing squadron nnder Admiral Hornby; and the pay-
master, Mr. W. H. Whiohelo, has been on the
Australian station in the Nymphe and Rosario.
Mr. William Thompson, sen., formerly post-
master at Bathurst, and one of the oldest residents of
the City of the Plains, died last Monday evening. He
was born at Carron, Tyrone, in 1794, married in 1829,
and emigrated to Sydney in 1835 with his wife and four
children. He held the appointment of postmaster at
Bathurst for thirty years—from 1836 to 1866—when he
retired on his well-earned pension, and was succeeded
by his fourth son, Mr. William G. Thompson, who has
since worthily performed the duties of the office.
It is understood that Mr. Graham Berry will
not accept the proposed testimonial which the Age has
been endeavouring to promote by public subscription.
Whilst not impervious to outside sympathy, Mr. Berry
would prefer that it should come from those who have
been more faithful in their allegiance to Liberalism, and
more amenable to party discipline than the conduc-
tors of the Age. However, a most miserable response
was made to the Age’s appeal. The working men
treated Graham just as the squatters treated the in-
ventor of phosphorised eats.
Coningsby Disraeli, Lord Beaconsfield’s heir, is
a nice-looking lad, with beautiful black eyes—the real
luminous Jew’s eyes. The wild stories in circulation
abont the boy—that his uncle had never seen him until
four years ago, when he forced himself into his presence
at Downing-street, and won his heart,&c.—are all rather
amusing, but not in the least true. The Earl was
always on the most intimate terms with his brother,
the father of young Coningsby, and if only on that
score alone the stories referred to are evidently founda-
tionless. By the way. Vanity Fair hears that it is the
Queen’s desire that young Disraeli should be made a
Peer. Mr. Gladstone, however, does not approve of this
desire.
Mr. H. Maguire, who claims to have discovered
what, if not “ Hanlau’s secret,” is at least a method by
means of which a sculler can propel an ordinary wager-
boat at a greatly increased speed, is now more confident
than ever about the success of hi-t invention. Mr.
Maguire is a man of much ingenuit ■, and as he is well
acquainted with mechanics, there i t at least a proba-
bility of his scheme proving something more than the
wild chimera of an over-sanguine theorist. We are told
that the appliance he will one of these days show the
public is of a very simple character, and that when
fitted with it, a wager-boat differs in no apparent
respect from one merely provided with the ordinary
sliding seat,
James M’Connochie, storekeeper, of Harden,
aged 60, was the other day found dead on the floor of
his bedroom. In 1876 he had a store at Binalong, which
was stuck up by two armed robbers, and a man named
James Omant, who was present, killed. M'Connochie
had a desperate struggle on that occasion. After
knocking over one of his assailants he seized a dagger
and stabbed the other in the left side. The assassins
were eventually beaten off, but were never captured,
and the old man, who, as above stated, has been found
dead, was the only witness who could, in the event of
their apprehension, have identified them. M'Connochie
died from disease of the heart. He was reported to
have been well off, and it is stated that a considerable
sum in notes, gold and cheques, is missing from his hut,
in which only 18s fid was found.
When General Roberts arrived at the Cape, the
place to which he had been sent to command armies
and vindicate the Queen’s authority, he found, as is
known, the order to come back to England at once.
This order was accompanied by no explanation what-
ever ; but the General of course made sure that this
explanation would be found at Madeira. On arriving at
Madeira, however, he found not so much as a line of
any sort awaiting him. He concluded therefore that he
would find something at Plymouth. But at Plymouth
it was the same thing; not a line or a word. And even
when he got to London no notice was taken of him, and
he had to solicit an audience at the Colonial Office of
his own proper motion before he could get any reason
given him why, after having been sent out as a Com-
mander-in-Chief, he had been ordered back like a
deserter. So says Vanity Fair.
Six or more Victorian artists have pictures in
the London Academy this year, viz., Messrs. N Cheva-
lier, Chas. Gregory (son of Mr. Gregory, of Parlia-
ment-houses), John White,*E. W. Cooke, H. J. John-
stone, and A W Strutt, a son of William Strutt, pain-
ter of the picture of Burke in the Melbourne Club.
Mr. Chevalier more than holds his position, which is
saying a good deal at this day. Messrs. Gregory and
White, both very young men, are advancing by aston-
ishing strides. The former aims high, paints few and
thoroughly studied pictures, and is rapidly growing in-
to notice. He has a large picture entitled ‘Burdens'
on the line, replete with good technical qualities. Mr.
White is_ more proli Ic, and has a rugged power that is
the admiration of his brother artists, who often buy his
pictures. Mr. Cooke steadily advances with his refined
and exceedingly sweet water-colour work. Mr. Strutt’s
line is animal and bird life, in water-colours, and ho ex-
cels in it. Mr. Johnstone is the last comer; his work
is as yet little known in England, but it is quite ap-
parent that he may also be trusted to render a good ac-
count of Australian talent. Then William Bradley, once
of Melbourne, but later and better known m Sydney,
has had water-colour landscapes at the Academy the last
two seasons.
The Herald informs us that H.M.S. Alacrity
is on a surveying cruise, commanded by Lieut. Moore.
This gentleman, however, is in England, and has been
for the past three months. We are next told that
H.M.S. Renard is similarly employed under command
of Lieut. G. E Richards—who, as a matter of fact, has
had command of the Alacrity since February last.
Next comes Lieut. T. de Hoghton, represented as
commanding H.M.S. Beagle, whereas he is now—well,
near the shores of England; and the poor Sandfly is
reported with no one in command, possibly through
scarcity of officers. Matters really stand thus: —
Alacrity, in charge of Lieut.-Commander G, E. Rich-
ards; Conflict, Lieut -Commander Izat; Sandfly, Lieut.-
Commander Maxwell; Renard, Lieut.-Commander
King; Beagle, Lieut.-Commander Maturin. The
Herald is only correct as to all “ being on a cruise.”
Morpeth has about the strangest old fellow alive.
His name is Paddy . This old celebrity, a bache-
lor, well off, and about 60 years of age, has made up his
mind that ho is to die in 1888. To that end, so to speak,
he has prepared his own grave in the Morpeth cemetery.
It is laid transversely, and is embellished with a head-
stone and iron railing. The stone, which is decorated
with figures of various deceased saints, bears this in-
scription :
“To the Memory of
PATRICK ,
Native of County Clare, Ireland.
1888.”
A small star is engraved on one side of the stone, and
when this falls off, which is expected to occur in 1888
Paddy’s days will be numbered. The old man tends the
grave with the greatest care (for he deeply respects the
deceased "), and has already growing on the sod some
of the choicest plants. R.I.P.
Mrs. Linden, mother of the girl who was, after
a long and expensive lawsuit, declared illegitimate by
the 1) nil Court the other day. is described as having
been a very beautiful woman. She was, perhaps, more to
be pitied than blamed. Her case has had many paraUels
in the Australian law-courts, and is but another illus-
tration of the French axiom, that the woman who
bases her marriage on money, and trusts to the affection
which is supposed to come afterwards, usually does fall
m love—but not with her husband. It is at least for-
tunate that the lawsuit has been terminated during the
early life of the girl whom the Court pronounces to be
but the daughter of her mother. However, the view
taken of the case by more than one experienced lawyer
is that of Mr. Justice Hargrave, whose decisions, we
believe, have, with one exception, invariably been main-
tained by the Privy Council, to which tribunal the girl’s
counsel think of appealing.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Affairs in the Transvaal qniet.
Small-pox still prevalent at Honolulu.
The St. Leonards brass band has collapsed.
1600 small-pox patients in London hospitals.
Basutos preparing to pay the fine imposed by
Sir Hercules.
Average wage of the Victorian gold-miners for
188.0 £Bllßs. llfd.
40,000 nailers on strike in England, resisting a
reduction of wages.
It is said that the Bayly estate (Havilah) will
shortly change hands.
The Cumberland Mercury is to be published
hi-weekly after 6th July.
Certificate of Captain Bache, Queen of Nations,
suspended for 12 months.
Turks have despatched 1000 troops to Tripoli, as
an anti-French demonstration.
By the Bokhara, the Comptoir d’Escompte
shipped 37,000 sovereigns to Paris.
Herberton, Wild River, is built mainly of cedar
which is abundant in the neighbourhood.
A company is being formed to eistablish a big
horse and carriage repository in Melbourne.
That excellent paper, the Cumberland Meb
curt, is to be published bi-weekly after July 6.
Two boys, aged 10 and respectively, have
been arrested at Milton, N.Z., for “burglary.”
Cape Government intend to extend the three
trunk railways in the colony inland. Coat, five millions.
The Brisbane Courier warns those who are
looking for genuine investments that this is no time to
buy Gympie shares.
John Bright advocates the wholesale emigration
of Irish to America. Thinks half the population would
accept free passages.
Baker, a seaman of H.M.S. Tourmaline, con-
victed of an indecent assault, was sentenced to five
years’ imprisonment.
An application is to be made for a new trial in
the big mining case, Romberg v. Bandholtz, recently
heard at Charters Towers.
Queensland Government have wired their Agent-
General to send 4000 immigrants per annum. Partly by
the Torres Straits mail steamers.
Richard Arthur Eva, who had deserted his wife
at Wellington, and eloped to Christohurch with the
intention of coming on to Sydney, was arrested.
The total yield of gold from the Charters Towers
district this half-year has been 47,0000 z. above the
average of the last six years.
Sorata balance sheet: Repairs cost .£24,000,
Total cost since stranded, about £50,000. Value of
vessel, say £120.000. Saved £70,000.
Messrs. Brogden have filed a petition of right,
in the Supreme Court of N.Z., and make a claim against
the eolony for £256,764. in connection with contracts.
One-third of the whole population of N.Z. are
clerks, school-teachers, constables, Government em-
ployes, or others belonging to the non-producing
classes.
The Morpeth branch railway line, once the
greatest failure, is now the best paying extension in the
oolony. Five hundred per cent, increase in the traffic
in ten years.
A curious revelation is likely to be made at the
trial of Johanna Hennessy, as to the manner in which
she became “ seized ” of the “ flash " note she is charged
with having passed.
At Newcastle, the Chinese vegetable dealers
appear to have been effectually Boy cotted. They are
now only to be seen assembled in little knots “ dis-
cussing the situation.”
In view of recent events it is significant that
the licensing bench on Tuesday refused by 11 to 2 to
allow the sale of intoxicants at the Association Ground
pavilion during a football match.
Three adults, two brothers and a sister, of one
family, have been sent to Ararat Lunatic Asylum. The
two men amused themselves during the hearing by
playing at marbles on the floor of the court.
The Full Court holds that the year’s imprison-
ment suffered by Mr. G, R. Dibbs does not release him
from liability in respect to the verdict for £2OOO
damages given in the slander case Shepherd v. Dibbs.
Topham, Angus, and Co. are the successful
tenderers for the tramways from Redfem to Botany,
and from Newtown to Marrickville. The line to Mar-
rickville is to be completed by September, and that to
Botany by January,
On its being reported that there was small-pox
among the Qnnnedah Chinese a Morpeth doctor visited
all their houses, but found neither small-pox nor
leprosy. There were merely several opium victims
hopelessly emaciated.
At a school celebration at Wagga the dress of
Madame Wallace, teacher of French, caught fire. In
her fright the lady rushed out of the room, thus greatly
increasing the peril. The flames were eventually ex-
tinguished and she was taken to the hospital, where she
lies in a precarious state.
While Dr. Butler, of St. George, was reading by
the light of a kerosene lamp he was seized with a
fit and fell to the floor, clutching at the same time the
table cover and pulling the lamp over upon him. His
clothing caught Are and inflicted such serious injuries
that he died shortly after.
The doctors think that the girl Nightingale,
whose throat was cut in Melbourne some time ago by
her madly-jealous paramour, Colley, will be able to
appear and give evidence shortly. Colley’s trial will,
it is thought, come off this month.
We are told that a queer state of immorality
prevails at Moore Park after 8 o’clock every even-
ing, and that a number of well-dressed loafers get a
living by threatening habitues of, and casual visitors to,
the place with disgraceful exposures in the event of the
latter not complying with their demands.
Adulterated tea has passed into consumption in
Victoria. It “ consists for the most part of decayed
exhausted, or foreign (other than tea) leaves, foreign
stems, tea sweepings, held together in little nodules by
starch, paste, and pieces of bark, husk, and nutshells.”
In Sydney they sell the Taeping Mixture.
The two boys arrested for the murder of the
Chinese lad Tommy Wing Hock, are wofully ignorant
They tell different tales of how the Chinese boy was
killed, the younger saying that the elder cut the boy’s
throat with an old penknife their father used for cutting
tobacco, and the elder affirming that the younger was
the executioner.
On Queen s Birthnight a number of larrikins
assembled opposite the Public School teacher’s resid-
ence at Mitchell’s Creek, and for two hours bombarded
the house and its inmates with Chinese guns and stones.
A fireball thrown into the verandah burnt one of the
palings. The school bell was rung, and derisive cheers
and groans indulged in. One of the offenders placed a
burning log against the school fence and was caught by
the teacher. Five were identified and summoned. One
was fined 1s and costs but went to the lockup for an hour
and a half. The log-roller was fined at first £1 but the
THE NEW CITY ARMS.


SINGER'S SEWING i\
THE
8
INGER
MANUFACTURIf
Have opened a Depot
s
TDNEY, AT No. 1 CAR]
‘ HARBOUR STEE:
S
INGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sent
s
INGER’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLES
s
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of near
s
INGER’S, THE BEST F(
Have received 160 First Pri
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cs
8
INGER’S, BEST FOR I
' SINGER’S MEDIUM MACE
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. w(
8
INGER’S THE BEST I
See the New No. 4 Ma
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition t
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOR
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-]
8
INGER’S SEWING
HAND OE TEEAD
8
INGER’S, The BEST. The
MACHINE-Light to Work, ]
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d
8
INGER’S, THE BEST;
LEAEN. New Improvements
8
INGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all ]
8
INGER’S, THE BEST AI
Sew finest muslins and h«
8
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
INGER’S THE BEST and M
Will last a lifetime in coi
8
INGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TB
8
INGER MANUFACTURE
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Har
8
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymarl
have been appointed agents foi
machines.
Call and see them—Month’f
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cas
SINGER’S SEWING MA
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHI
and CO. only recommend
BEMRMBER, THERE IS <!
GEE MACHINE. See th<
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—>
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—B
Cast iron imitations. Onlj
sold at Turner and Co.'s.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACH]
meats with the Singer C
INGEK/S SEWING MAC
cent, discount for cash, or on
8
(SIDNEY
—From TURNEE
GEORGE STREET, opposite
8
INGER’S SEWING MAC HI
but 160 FIRST PRI
LUXURIES WITHIN THE RE
When you ask a friend to visit you the first impression he receiv
is one of comfort, abundance, and even luxury. But the re
impression is produced is almost incredible. The first thing
FIBRE MAT for which you paid 2s. Passing on, the next thmf
3s. 3d. per square yard, or a FLOL RCLOTH which only costs 1
his HAT (a STIFF FELT it may be at 4s. lid., or a SILK i
putting his 7s. 6d. SILK UMBRELLA on one side, he makes
(price 4s. 3d.) into the Drawing Room. Here a rich BRUSSELS
like all the foregoing, at
ANTHONY BORDER]
PALACE EMPOR
HAYMAKKET (ONL
The cost of this was 2s. Bd. per yard, and there is also a HEART
such a room are amply supplied from the same source. Th
STOOLS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, and CUSHIONS beautifull;
that the CANVAS and WOOL came from
ANTHONY HORDERN i
whose prices are below those of the Wholesale Houses.
As the morning is the time he arrives, the hostess (in a di
or FRENCH CASHMERE, procured at the
PALACE EMPO
and made of the very newest shade of colour) leads him into the
TAPESTRY, at Is. lid. per yard, and his eyes alight upon the i
cost about half what they would anywhere else, surmounted by i
costing only ss. 9d. each, with BRACKETS to match at a small
tastefully executed OLEOGRAPHS and ENGRAVINGS, glad
the trifling expenditure at which these additions are made he e
this apartment, he walks across a CHINA MATTING 36 in<
Dining Room, where the dazzling magnificence, combined wi
attire (which latter has now ramified into a thousand novelties —
times) well nigh eclipse the more sombre requisites of every d
at 4s. per dozen; TABLE DAMASK for extension at Is. 4d
ordinary sized table, at prices varying from ss. 6d. to 225. 6<
Antimacassars, all hand made, at from Is. each ; and the Curt
per pair, but the Applique are 15s. On retiring to rest he finds 1
ANTHONY HORDERN
supplied the SHEETS, the BLANKETS, the QUILT (one of
SILK DOWN —delightfully soft, light, and warm), the Crocker
Fancy Soap, of which they have a pleasing variety. faci
AWA
Sn-VEE
AT ]
AWARD
SEVEN PB
STDNI
DINNER WINES 10/- per dozen.
SHIRAZ
MADEIRA
BURGUNDY
RIESLING
}w£S }*-
}«V-
ft
ft
f»
V1N OBDINAIRE
3/6
PEE GALLON.
PBUITY TV
" G. H. STEPHEN & CO., "
J Wine Growers and Merchants, >
13 Bridge Street. „
rjIHE 105th anniveesaey
of THE
DECLARATION of AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE
will be celebrated at
SIR JOSEPH BANKS PAVILION, BOTANT,
on
JULY 4, 1881.
Tickets —Gentlemen’s £1 Is., Ladies’ 10s. 6d. each-
may be obtained from the following Committee :
J. H. Williams, U.S. Consul,
T. H. Boyd I H. Shaw Smith
A. U. Bowdoin I C. P. Sheridan
E. W. Little I A. Toming
E, E. Shaw I E. H. Williams.
Meet at the OFFICE of the U.S. CONSUL, 58 Pitt-
street, near Bridge-street, at 9.30 sharp.
EDMUND E. SHAW. Hon. Sec.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 21st June, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
THE Lessees of the undermentioned Mineral
Lease are hereby called upon to show cause,
within thirty days from this date, why the lease
should not be cancelled, for non-observance of the
conditions thereby imposed.
E. A. BAKER.
No. 893; J. Baohfleld, H. Bachfleld, and others; por-
tion No. 71, county of Bailer, parish of Wylie; 20
acres. Application No., Wilson’s Downfall 19.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 21st June, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
THE Lessees of the undermentioned Mineral
Leases are hereby called upon to show cause,
within thirty days from this date, why the Leases
should not be cancelled, for non-payment of the
rent due thereon.
E. A. BAKER.
No. 737; Fong Gin, Ah Tow; portion No. 433; Middle
Creek, county of Gough, parish of Herbert; 20 acres.
Application No., Tingha 218.
No. 750; Hugh Costello; portion No. 108; Middle
Creek, county of Gough, parish of Herbert; 20 acres.
Application No., Tingha 223.
No. 801; James Costello; portion No. 18; Middle
Creek, county of Gough, pariah of Herbert; 20 acres.
Application No., Tingha 228.
T
HOMAS
WEBB
BOND-STREET,
&
SONS.
Beg to inform their customers that they have JUST
OPENED a LARGE CONSIGNMENT of
BREAKFAST.
DINNER, and
Also,
TEA SETS.
FANCY CHINA
JIND
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invited.
N
E.
CRIPPS’ CATERING COMPANY,
Having taken those COMMODIOUS PREMISES one
door from Hunter-street, in Elizabeth-street, where
PARTIES CAN BE SUPPLIED
with a
LARGE ROOM
for
HOT DINNERS or MEETINGS,
BALL PARTIES Ac.
magistrate let him off with Is and costs. The remaining
three paid Is and costa also. The teacher, through the
incapacity of the merciful J.P., had 84 miles of riding,
instead of 30, which is all he should have travelled.
Aaron Sobly, fort man of the Adelaide railway
yards, killed by an engine.
Mulligan and party have returned to the Hodg-
kinson. Pound no gold—only tin.
The parents of truant children within the metro-
politan district will be prosecuted, after Monday next.
The Ocean (s a.) arrived here on Tuesday night,
very short of water and provisions. Condenser broken.
Billiards—if you can not play, go to the Coffee
Tavern Billiard Boom, and learn. A. S. Gould. — Advt.
Professor Fawcett is sensibly trying the experi-
ment of utilizing the services of deaf and dumb people
as Post Office sorters.
Another massacre by kanakas Nine seamen
(eight blacks and one white, of the May Queen, labour
trader), killed at the Solomons.
It seems to be a pretty well-established fact that
explosive bullets were occasionally used by the Boers
during the late battue of Englishmen in the Transvaal.
Frederick Maidment, son of a selector at
Inveralochy, was killed on Friday last through his horse
falling on him while attempting to jump a fence. The
poor fellow was but seventeen years old. He was a
good rider, and in the words of his brother, 11 was never
afraid.”
The Chinese of N.S.W. have agreed among
themselves to conform in every possible respect Ito
European customs. Billycock hats, tweed suits, and,
we suppose, wife-beating, drunkenness, and fraudulent
insolvency. There is yet hope of John’s ultimate
civilization.
On the arrival of some teams at Mount Browne
the other day, there was a tremendous rush for flour on
the part of the miners, who had been without it for a
week or two. The store was besieged by 500 men, who
elbowed and crushed one another with perfect good-
humour. The flour was served out in 61b bags at 8d
per lb.
The Oberon mail was stuck-up and robbed on
Saturday evening by a man of 5 feet 6 inches, who had
a bag over his head with holes out for his eyes. He
appears to have been, considering all things, a very
lenient kind of fellow ; for, after taking 225. 6d. from the
driver, he allowed the latter to retain a valuable gold
watch he was carrying.
The report of the Melbourne Hospital sub-
committee recommends, inter alia, the appointment of a
medical superintendent for three years, at a salary of
£450 per annum. Much imposition, it appears, is at
present practised by well-to-do recipients of outdoor
relief. The sub-committee do not consider a convales-
cent hospital necessary at present.
The most noteworthy event which has taken
place at Charters Towers for some time is the striking
of gold in No. 3 Day Dawn claim. This shows that the
great Day Dawn reef extends westerly for nearly a mile.
All the claims on the line but one are now on mundio.
The Miner says there should be no difficulty in form-
ing all the claims on the line of reef into one company
with a capital of £50,000.
Few people know the extent to which sugar-cane
8 being planted on some of the North Queensland rivers.
On the Burdekin, Mr. M'Millan intends to have 1600
(sixteen hundred) acres under cane in 1883! At present
he has a steam-plough at work, besides 40 teams, all
engaged preparing the land for planting. On the
Herbert, two or three Melbourne capitalists are form-
ing two large plantations.
Mr. Trevelyan, Secretary to the Navy, has said
that at the present moment there is not a single heavy
breechloading gun mounted in any of our ships. The
ex-First Lord, Mr. Smith, declares that the naval guns
of England are inferior to the new guns on board the
German, French, and Bussian ships. Again, Mr.
Stewart Eendal states that as far as armament is con-
cerned, the whole British navy may be considered to
be at half power.
It is a significant fact that the German war
office has lately been hurrying on the preconstruc-
tion and armament of a great many fresh fortresses.
Kiel is the object of special attention, and its coast
fortifications are being considerably increased. A fresh
belt of forts is to be built arennd the mouth of the
Eider Canal and around the bay as far as the western
bank of the Moltentort. The coast line of railways is
to be completed, and several other strategic lines are in
course of construction. The fortifications around
Strasburg are also being completed, and by the end of
the year little will remain to be done.
Speaking at Inverell Mr. Lackey gave the fol-
lowing statistics. Length of railways in operation
in New South Wales, 958 miles. Ten years ago
there were only 348 miles. During the last five years
104 miles per annum have been opened. During nine
months ending March last 224 miles, were opened.
Parliament has voted money for 2219 miles, thus:—
Opened, 958; under construction, 489; in preparation,
772. Earnings per mile : Victoria, £1120; S. Australia,
£665; New Zealand, £648; N.S. Wales, £1475. Interest
on capital returned by receipts, Vic., 3.62 per cent. ;
S.A., 2.91; N.Z., 2,25 ; N.S. W., 4.36. Capital invested,
£11,778,819. Equal to £12,295 per mile.
New terrors are now lent to the journey to
Mount Browne —a dangerous madman is now on the
track. Between Morden and Cobham seems to be his
beat. Fully two months ago he visited the latter
station, stuck up the overseer, Mr. M’Donald, and then
attacked Mr. Woodfleld, who, after a severe struggle,
managed to secure him. He was kept tied up at the
station for over a week, and the police sent for, but
they took no notice of the intimation, and as the man
appeared to be better, he was released. He has again
become thoroughly deranged. Quite recently he visited
Morden, and almost killed two of the men on the
station. On one he inflicted a severe scalp wound, and
a deep cut on the arm of the other, escaping into the
bush again before he could be secured. The Mount
Browne police and a tracker are now after him. He is
a tall man, fully 6ft high, strongly built, and it is said he
has a revolver in his possession.
We are informed that complete disorganisation
prevails in the tramway department of the railways;
that the drivers and firemen arc at loggerheads with,
and have no confidence in, their immediate superiors;
that firemen are compelled to work on Sundays from
ten to seventeen hours, and are paid only at the rate of
an ordinary day's work; that men are sometimes fined
a whole week’s pay, without notice, for the most
trivial offences; that since Mr. Mason’s departure
everything has, in fact, been upside down; that no
appeal is allowed against fine or suspension; that if a
driver take an engine into the shed when he knows it
isn’t fit to be out, he is either fined or suspended; that
if he keeps it out when he knows it ought to be in the
shed, the same thing happens to him; that it isn’t
known to what fund the fines go; that the Engineer for
Existing Lines refuses to enquire into the men’s
grievances. We may mention that we don’t make these
accusations —we have been merely requested to give a
statement of what are alleged to be the grievances of
the employes, or of a portion of them, and to ask that
Mr. Goodchap, in whom the men have complete confi-
dence, will hold an investigation.
This ia what an American officer of rank
recently told a writer in Vanity Fair : —“Tes, we have
seen your soldiers; most of them are boys now. Tour
army seems to have many things they do not want, and
to want many things that they should have. They
seem to us to devote their entire attention to polishing
straps and buttons, forgetting the essentials of modern
war. They wear clothes so tight as not only to be
ridiculous, but to be unserviceable. Why, sir, your
Guards cannot walk up Primrose Hill without splitting
their pants in an essential part—they cannot. Tom:
soldiers’ coats are so tight that they cannot get their
rifles to their shoulders, and when they have got them
there they do not know what to do with them. They
wear hats and caps of all sorts unfit for war. They
practise shooting in Glengarry caps, which do not shade
their eyes, and in which no can could shoot. The
soldiers display more sense than the officers, for on the
rifle ranges they make sun-shades of their cartridge-
paper. Their busbies and bonnetj and helmets tumble
off if they lie down. My friend, John Bull is drivelling
and behind the times in army matters. Tou have had
Sour little lessons in shooting at Majuba Hill. If you
o not mend your ways, and that soon, John Bull’s
tenure of his empire is pretty short, quite certainly I ”


JOHNSTON
SEWING MACHIN
HAYMARKEI
gINGER’S SEWING
JOHNSTON’S [
HAYMARKI
jgINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s
JOHNSTO
rjiHE
LIGHT RUNNING
2s 6d per week, a
JOHNSTON'S, HATMJ
gINGER'S SEWING
2s 6d per week, a
JOHNSTON’S D
HAYMARKEI
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, witl
tacking (or basting), without the u
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells; wil
braid, make their own braid, bind, i
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, an
embroider curtains or antimacassaj
all household and factory sowing,
of work will be shown at our offices
trades can be supplied. They are si
in running, strong, handsome, ai
machine may be had on trial, ENT
CHARGE. Instruction at YOU
free. Every WEETHEIM Machii
KEPT IN EEPAIE and workit
YEARS from the date of purchase
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OP CHARQ
samples by post. Country age
liberal terms. BEALE and C(
street, near Market-street, and i
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastl
Bathurst. No matter in what par
live, we will supply you witl
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM
INTEREST.
T
HE A U S T
“HOME" SHUT'
AMERICAN LOCKS'
SEWING MAC
EXPRESS;
OSS.
A
&
cLA/
TO effectually stop the decep
practised, every Machine nc
is specially made for that clime, an
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the wor
must look carefully to this, and if .
upon them under false pretences
design, we will not be responsible
work.
320,000 NOW IN USE IN 1
No. 1. —Hand Machine, £4.
AT O M’nAV.iv.AfA.I.Ao/lUiianA
VICTORIA THEATRE. —W 1
World, now being visited by
THE NATIVE DWARF,
Only 2ft. high, 30 j ears of age, f
flowing black beard, kindly
musical talent; weight, 431ba.;
than Tom Thumb Also,
PANORAMA OP ZULU AND
making the greatest show in A
THE GREAT PAT GIANT,
Weighing 30 stone, 6ft. round
round the chest; and is able to
or dance, any 20 stone man in tl
JIJERCANTILE ROV
ANNUAL BALI
Under the Patronage of his Wo
(John Harris, Esc
and the MERCHANNS OE
The Annual Ball of the above Club
in the EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PARK, on the 21st JULY NEXT.
DRESS, PLAIN and I
Tickets—Double, 30s; single (genl
12s 6d,
D. MURRAY, Hon,
M
ASO N I C
SATURDAY EVENING,
Under the Distinguished
of
HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOT
AUGUSTUS LOFTUS,
and of
SIB ALFRED STEPHEN. K.C.
STEPHEN,
who will honour the event witl
FIRST GRAND COl
of the
WILHELMJ CONCERT
on which occasion will
for the
FIRST TIME IN SY
the
World-renowned and Inoompa:
HERB AUGUST WIL
assisted by the talented Pr
MISS KATE
and the celebrated Hungarian Pia
HERR MAX VOGR
London Times. —“ Professor Wil
most prominent position among t
day, and is undoubtedly the brigh
present time in the profession. As
the first of the age."
Admission—ss. t 35., 2s.
The Box Plan will be opened i
vxr XT T> n Hr*e* on TnnoHor
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
HEATEE ROYAL
Lessee Mr- S. Lazar.
Acting Manager Mr, G. L. Goodman.
ENGLISH OPEEA COMIQUE SEASON,
under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove,
AN UNQUALIFIED TRIUMPH,
achieved in the production of the latest and greatest of
Offenbach’s works,
LA PILLB DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at ten minutes to 8
o'clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may he pur-
chased during the day at H. Solton’s, tobacconist, 116
King-street, near Emersen’s.
HENRY R. HARWOOD, Business Manager,
Gr
AIE T Y
T HEATEE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
INTENSE ENTHUSIASM.
ELECTRIC SUCCESS.
Under the Management of
Mr WTBERT REEVE,
Of Yictorien Sardou’s
GRANDEST PLAY OP THE AGE,
DIPLOMACY
DIPLOMACY
DIPLOMACY,
In which Messrs. Reeve, Titheradge, Cates, O’Brien,
Forbes, Gladstone, Worbold, and Saville, and Misses
Mayor, Arden, Canton, Howarth and Mrs. Stammers
will appear EVERY EVENING until further notice.
MAGNIFICENT NEW SCENERY AND STAGE
APPOINTMENTS.
Box office and plan at Messrs. Nicholson’s and Co.’s,
325 George-street. . . „ _
Private boxes, £2 2s; orchestra chairs, ss; stalls, 2s ;
balcony, 2s; pit. Is.
Manager for Mr. Reeve Mr. J. W. DODGE.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Jamea Nesbitt, father of Moonlite’s companion
that name, was again before the Melbourne bench
last week, for threatening to brain his wife with a
tomahawk. Mr. Call said that Nesbitt and his wife had
both given a great deal of trouble, and he thought they
wanted “ two separate gaols." Bound over to keep the
•neace . ..1277 miles of railway open in New Zealand
aT Bourke, flour is £3O per ton...... Last week some
scoundrel poisoned a valuable blood horse belonging to
Mr Morgan Power, of Greenvale The £l6OO found
to a bag on a wall at Little River, Victoria, has not yet
been claimed. The police believe it to have been the
property of a man named Thomas Rourke, of Skifton-
street, Ballarat A contract has been made by the
New Zealand Land Company to convey 5000 frozen
sheep to London Smith, convicted at Melbourne of
selling indecent photos., was sent to gaol without the
option of a fine Marovitch, who killed his wife and
her paramour, has been remanded to next criminal
sessions at Adelaide The Bruce Herald as-
serts that immoral publications are clandestinely
sold at one of the Otago railway stalls
Some Christchurch (N.Z.) speculators are communicat-
ing with the Edison Electric Light Company, with a
■view to introducing the light into N.Z At Brisbane,
the other day, the discarded son of an English no'de-
man was fined £1 for drunkenness. In Sydney, a man
who once occupied a high Government position in Tas-
mania now gathers bones The Herbert blacks have
speared and partly eaten two Chinamen Catskins
bring a penny each in the Melbourne market A neat
freestone monument, surmounted by a marble cross and
wreath, has been erected at Carcoar to the memory of
the late Mr. Edward Hugh Boyle, of the Chronicle,
who died in January, 1880 500 kangaroos were killed
at a " drive "at Quirindi, the other day. 200 horsemen
took part It is stated that the Kanakas on
the Magnolia plantation have formed a plot for
the murder of Mr. Hall, the manager A man
who stated that he had arms in his swag, the
other day passed through Wilmington, S.A. He
said he was in search of a man (whose photograph
he showed), who had first drugged him and then eloped
with his wife and child from Kingston. He added that
he had travelled «00 miles in pursuit of them. He
spoke in a determined manner, and was quite sober
Wages men are scarce on the Hodgkinson At Back
Creek, Bendoe, a minor named Edmund Church was
found by his mate dead, and covered up with earth.
The poor fellow had been working in dangerous ground
and had taken no notice of a warning given him. He
had previously been working at Bermagui and had been
a sailor By August there will be 420 acres under
sugar on the Johnstone (Q ) A quartz mill is about
to bo put on the Upper Mulgrave 300 acres have
been taken up at Topper’s Mountain, Tingha, for the
purpose of mining for tin Murrurundi has lost a
clever medico in Hr. Knowles, but has secured a worthy
successor in Dr. Bell, who has the local hospital under
his charge The Saturday Advertiser has been pur-
chased by the proprietary of the Dunedin Morning
Herald, for £lOOO Ah extensive outbreak of scab
has occurred in the north-west of Western Australia.
The disease appears to have been introduced by a flock
“from Champion Bay Several nuggets, weighing from
-soz. down, were picked out of the stamper-boxes at the
Band and Albion consolidated claim, Ballarat, the other
day Gough town has been purchased in a lump from
the proprietary by Mr. P. R. Holdsworth.....^,, There is
now a Shearers’ Union in the Western District of Vic-
toria. Its platform is 16s. or 16s. per 1000 John
Warren, land agent, of Sandhurst, committed suicide.
Pecuniarv difficulties ; strychnine The new machi-
nery of No. 1 North Phoenix claim, Gympie, has been
christened with great icldt No bill will be filed
against Mr. Edward Smith, who was accused of the
murder of a blackfellow at Tewantin, Queensland
A Chinese vegetable hawker has stabbed a European
rival at Emerald Hill George Keeping, of Hamilton,
Victoria, has blown out his brains The Western
Independent is to be a daily evening paper A boy
named Egan died at Crow’s Nest, Toowoomba, from
the bite of a deaf adder A burglar at Singleton was
foiled in his attempted crime, and run to earth by the
man he attempted to rob—one Dogherty, aged 60 years,
an old soldier, formerly of the celebrated Enniskillen
dragoons At Cooktown, a Chinese opium-smoking
passenger by the Ocean died suddenly. Deceased had
all the voyage been courting “ De Quincey’s gorgeous
waking dream,” and so dreamt his life away into an
everlasting sleep The Western Champion (Blackall,
Q.) has procured a lithographic plant, with a view to
publishing political cartoons A large order for iron
girders recently left South Australia and was given to
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Company A miner
named M’Donell fell 330 feet down a shaft at No. 1 N.
Pooanix, Gympie, on to the cage, and was terribly
mutilated. He died instantly Twenty-six years ago,
Wilkinson, recently executed at Albury, was in the em-
,ploy of a squatter in Gippsland, Victoria, as a bullock
driver, and on one occasion he brought his
team home all hacked over with an axe, the
horns of one beast being absolutely chopped off
A new reef has been discovered in the Newington Co.’s
mine, Stawell, Vic., at the 960 ft level...... About 180 oz.
more gold has been received at Wilcannia from Mount
Browne. There is a prospect of Mr. J. E. Kelly’s
m ichine from Weelongbar being taken to the field.
The last fortnight’s crushing at the North Qlanmire
Mine, Gympie, gave 5960 z gold A woman named
Carstair has been committed at Hay for overlying and
killing her child while drunk Latest Hodgkinson
-crushings—974oz. gold from 577 tons stone Attention
has been forcibly directed at Rockhampton to the neces-
sity of enforcing the law prohibiting the supply of liquor
to Kanakas, who, when drunk, soon become mad
At Palmerston, Northern Territory, the other day, a
Chinaman put through the mill two tons of a quartz
leader, from which he obtained 2160 z. retorted gold
A new field, reported to be very payable, has been found
in the Northern Territory. Numbers of Europeans and
many Chinamen are at work on it. The discovery is a
most opportune one Phosphorised grain is killing
sheep, as well as rabbits, in S.A.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Professor Thorold Rogers, the English political
economist, classes landlords with “ vermin,” since both
subsist on the land without contributing to its produc-
tiveness. Bather rough, this.
One of the Victorian Premier’s former sup-
porters describes the situation thus: —“ Mr. Berry has
been four years striving to get something he didn’t
want, and now he has got it.”
Says a despatch from Copenhagen “ A Royal
proclamation has been suddenly issued, dissolving the
Lower House. It states that the King regrets to find
the members wasting their time, being either incapable
or unwilling to carry useful measures. During six
months not a single useful bill, nor even a Bill of Ways
and Means, has been passed.”
We gratefully acknowledge receipt of _ the
Brisbane Telephone, a spiritualistic paper containing
six pages of twaddle and two pages of interesting ad-
vertisements.
The gallant Mr. Baylis, P.M. of Wagga, has
been confined to his room lately, suffering from the
effects of the gunshot wound received by him, years
avo, in his encounter with the bloodthirsty outlaw,
Morgan.
Mr. G. S. Pullen, of Bowen (Q.), has invented a
new and very serviceable hobble. Ho inserts in that
part of the hobble through which the chain
passes a small but strong steel loop, on which, in place
of the leather, the whole wear and tear of the hobble-
chain is concentrated.
Some queer things were seen at the Groavenor
Gallery private view in the first week of May. Two
very nice-looking girls were going about in bright
terra-cotta coloured dresses, so made that they exactly
resembled red water-vessels of that material, and a sad
and sombre poetess was attired in a straight black satin
bag, tied round her waist with a running-string. Hats
and bonnets too ugly for imagination were conspicuous
among some really beautiful and elegant specimens of
coiffure.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Bismarck’s illness very serious.
Dufaure, French statesman, dead.
Parnell intends stumping the States again.
Grant Duff appointed Governor of Madras.
Anti-French meetings in principal Italian cities.
More native risings against the French in Tunis.
France and Italy on the growl, anent the Mar-
seilles incident.
Turks commencing to evacuate the territory
ceded to Greece
Irish Land Bill progressing through committee
in the Commons.
Trouble about the renewal of the Anglo-French
Commercial Treaty.
The Ameer of Afghanistan has fought and
routed Ayoub Khan.
451,370,000 being borrowed for S.A. at 4 per
cent Minimum, 102.
Census returns shows decrease of 250,000 in
Irish population since 1871.
Eastern Bulgarians sympathize with the
Liberals in the Principality.
Railway accident in Mexico. 200 passengers
killed by a train falling into a river.
Earl Dufferin, new Ambassador to the Porte,
has presented his credentials to the Sultan.
Abolition of Capital Punishment Bill thrown out
in the Commons by a majority of only 69 votes.
The Prince of Bulgaria has released the Liberal
leaders, whom he had the previous day arrested.
House of Lords passed a resolution that no
necessity exists for England interfering in Tunisian
affairs.
Census of Great Britain and Ireland gives 35
million inhabitants—l 7 million males, and 18 million
females.
The Palace steward of the King of Tunis,
charged with peculation, has taken refuge in the British
Consulate.
Bulgarian Legislative Chambers dissolved.
Elections proceeding. New elections favourable to
Prince Alexander.
Three Liberal Deputies of the Bulgarian
National Assembly murdered at Sofia. The Prince has
not yet been arrested, and isn’t likely to be.
Parnell and M‘Carthy advocate, according to
the N. Y. Herald, federation between England and the
Colonies with a Parliament on the American model.
Gladstone declares the 'loyal inhabitants of the
Transvaal not entitled to compensation for loss conse-
quent on withdrawal of British rule from the Transvaal.
Grant Duff, Under-Secretary for the Colonies,
states that H.M. Government intends to invite Inter-
national agreement for dealing with kidnapping and
slavery in the South Seas.
Another Mnller-Briggs murder case ! An un*
known man has been robbed and murdered in a railway
carriage on the London-Brighton line—stabbed in
several places, and pitched out of the window into a
tunnel. One of the railway carriages has been found to
be saturated with blood, and bullets have been dis-
covered embedded in the woodwork. There is, so far,
no trace of the murderer. Perhaps Englishmen will
now modernise their carriages.
THE BULLETIN.
PUBLISHER’S NOTICE.
Published every Thursday morning at 13 Bridge-street,
Sydney, and mailed to any of the colonies on receipt of
subscription at the rate of Them Shillings per quarter
IN ADVANCE.
Remittances, Cheques, and Post Office Orders should
be made payable to William Henry Traill.
Advertisements are inserted at the rate of ss. per
inch. Discount: On half-yearly advertisements, IS per
cent.; annual, 25 per cent.
EDITORIAL NOTICE.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in Thk Bclmtin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Oreat pressure on space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
" Eact and Fancy Focv»ed,” to which column the
attention of readers is specially directed.
Correspondents should in all cases send either their
full names or uonvs d* plum*. Comm uni cations in which
this rule is not observed cannot be noticed.
Eejected M.SS. cannot be returned. The authors
should keep copies.
Correspondents who send newspaper clippings should
paste same on slips bearing the names and dates of the
journals from which the extracts are taken. This
system offers an easy means of bringing matters under
the Editor’s notice.


Miscellaac
W
ILLCOX
iVD
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES,
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E B B L E
416 GEORGE S'
Dispense Prescriptions ch
other House in Sydney. A1
Medicines at less than English
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sp(
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGIST!
Send for a Price List. Couni
ally attended to. Don’t forg
i cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern's New
You
W. KEI
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLO(
664 GEORGE STREI
Opposite St. Andrew’
Medals’of every description. Mi
sentation Trowels designee
Premises,
DIAMOND SE'
A new and Choice Assortmer
Mail and always i
Waltham Watches, fri
'KING STREET !
Write to us for Everything. We post all Information FREE.
% 3? AIN
389 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
The Cheapest House for Chaffcutters
h U 1
_ C
MARTIN s, PAJN
U =
- 3
VONEV
CO X
u c
o H
> o
33 r
m m
< <
WRITE TO US OR CALL ON US,
Wt shall be pleased to furnish every information regarding our
Chaffcutters ; and to customers in the country we post illus-
trated lists of drawings with prices attached.
WE HAVE EVERY SIZE AT VARIOUS PRICES.
MARTIN AND PAIN,
3SO SEOIGE ST., SYDNEY.
awwgumi-
rl
r
SLCAP
MARTIN PAIN. 389 Geortre St.
Miscellaneor
QLIFFORD, LOYI
TEA IMPORT]
EASTERN AND CC
MERCHANT
Receive regular consignmer
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualit
Do. Indian Prize Me
CHUTN1ES—Indian Pr
PRESERVES—Indian 1
COFFEE—Plantation N
Do. „ P
Do. „ N
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and ]
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B
OFFIC S 79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
JOHN D
IMPORTNE 01
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswi
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric ;
Butchers’ Brine Pi
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
119 LIYEEPOOL STREET,
235
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL
OR
ALLWOOL
TWEED
Blacket and Davy.
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents fob Messes. Tangte Beos., Bxemingham.
CANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT'S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S PILES,
▲ LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEP WASH. MTNTNO. ST.TTTf!TNO AWT1 ttjptha
JBXBS' PERFECT PERI
N on-poisonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable, The greatest Ai
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
•Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From Dr. Dansey; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for hout
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnmigh,
for my throat I could not desire anything more eftecti
Purifier. Prom L. King, Esq., Inspector of ■dsi/lumn, Si
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newti
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney :—My child had sore eyes for 2
one week. — —From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and frui
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Detail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, S;
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agenti
2P %
PRIZE
SYDNEY.
No. 12 Hunteb
jJJK. ELLE
Against
E. Haspi
Manuf;
were a
Teh Fik!
and
t/fl
w
I
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges'
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up."
NEW COMET
5/6 pair.
THE EOTAL COU
7/6 pair.
MOROCCO BUTTC
7/6 pair.
Fur-Lined Warm S
7/6 pair.
Choice Assortmer
Fancy SCARFS, H
CHIEFS, and
I,
In
ID. TTITH
IVIustar
SYDNEY.
AMERICAN MACHINERY
H. P. GREGORY AND CO., B
IMPORTERS of ALL DESCRIPTION of MACHII
-T. A. Fav and Co.’s First Snecial Prize Wood-working- Machinerv-
