

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 4.—No. 50.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1881.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1881.
The Larrikin Residuum.
We emphasized, last week, the splendid opportun-
ities which are open to young Australians, the
influence which they may exercise upon the political
management and industrial development of the
continent which is their heritage. It has become
necessary this week to regard the other side of the
shield. Young Australia is, on the whole, we be-
lieve, equal to the situation. Industry, energy,
and a keen appreciation of the value of activity
and sustained effort are attributes commonly
possessed by him. But among young Australians
there is, unhappily, a demoralized residuum whose
antics give occasian for keen anxiety, and
whose influence, if not checked and controlled,
threatens to be burdensome and offensive to
the community as it expands. The larrikin
residuum is not peculiar to Australia. Old
countries have it as well as new. But
in these colonies, where the struggle for mere sub-
sistence is a condition scarcely known, except
perhaps to the clerical class, the idle and thriftless
come more prominently into view than elsewhere.
Our larrikins are as much the outcome of the
prosperity of the laboring classes as of anything
else. True, there exist larrikin youths of both
sexes in all conditions of life among us. Wealth
is achievable with more rapidity than decency of
conduct and ideas can be arrived at. But to a
certain extent the restraining influence of social
obligations makes itself always felt proportion-
ately to the position occupied. The larrikins who
demonstratively display their evil propensities and
outrageous proclivities in full public view do not
as a rule belong to the well-to-do classes. They
are the idle, the uncared-for, the wilful, and the
depraved. The peculiar prominence which they
attain is clearly attributable to the comparative
ease with which they, as compared with
the same class in the old world, can acquire
the means for indulgence and for idleness. Under
the mild skies of Australia little is needed in the
way of house-shelter. Here, too, while a shilling
goes further towards maintenance than in most
parts of the world, it is infinitely more easy to
earn or to procure. The youth who chooses to
ndulge in riotous living does not come to absolute
want in the inevitable fashion which obtains in
the old country. An occasional spell of work
puts him in funds. He can even trust to luck for
odd jobs and “ rises” obtained honestly or other-
wise. Even the business of loafing is not here
subject to the over-competition which reduces its
profits to a minimum in more populous com-
munities. The idle and lazy do not here
necessarily disappear, ground under the wheels of
the social machine. Where the remedy is to
be found is not yet apparent. Primary
Education does not promise to meet the
case, for the larrikin, as a rule, has
been to school —some, alas ! are actually
at school. The recent holidays have served to
bring this blight upon Ypung Australia pro-
minently into view. The season, once so sacred,
has served as carnival time for larrikindotn.
Those excursions, upon which it has been the
custom of the daily Press to dilate, as furnishing
gratifying evidence of the prosperity which pre-
vails, have served also to expose the numbers and
quality of this shameful residue. The scene pre-
sented by the motley crowd at Clontarf on Boxing
Day is one never to be forgetten by an eye-
witness. Englishmen have been accused of taking
their pleasure sadly. The larrikin takes his and
her pleasure madly. At Clontarf it was not an
excursion—it was an orgy. Large ocean steamers
discharged cargo after cargo of young Austra-
lians. Young men, young women, lads, girls, and,
still more sad, children thronged the ground,
crowded the dancing pavilion (save the
mark!) and jostled at the drinking bars.
As their blood warmed by dancing, and
their passions became inflamed by liquor, the
oene within and around the hovels which serve
for dancing and drinking became indescribable.
Horace has no descriptions more revolting. The
dancing was that of satyrs and bacchantes, but of
Satyrs and bacchantes in soiled tweed suits and
squalid finery or rumpled gowns that had at first
been stiffly white. Depravity of physique thrust
itself upon notice. Young Australia here was
represented by faces prematurely old—oounte-
nances cunning, debased, dully sensual, surmount-
ing figures undergrown, meagre, and angular.
There were no mamy youths. A six-foot constable
towered like a giant amid the seething crowd—
a sturdy water-police officer, of middle size,
appeared a formidable heavy-weight among them.
And the girls ! There was beauty of feature here
and there, blurred by traces of intemperance
and ravages of excess. But, worse still,
amidst the flushed, panting, bevy of young girls,
clinging in romping abandon to promiscuous part-
ners, were some unworn childish faces with the
devil’s mark not yet stamped on their foreheads —
but obviously preparing to have the seal set upon
them before another day. Drink and excitement,
inherited impulse, and above all, example and evil
associations were doing their work and breaking
down the last barriers of modesty. As the orgy
grew, and drink, desire, and jealousy inflamed the
participants, young girls, comely and shapely
enough to make homes pleasant and parents proud,
flew wild-beast fashion at one another, boxed like
men, and anon scratched and bit like cats.
Female children, not yet in their teens romped
around with gestures and antics which would have
shocked a camp of black-gins. The males barely
restrained themselves to a semblance of decency
—the females resented no familiarity. The
ones were inflamed —the others melted.
The devil had broken loose. We looked
around for the ministers of God and saw —police-
men. We looked for parents and discovered —
bawds. Has no one any duty to discharge to these
unhappy youngsters ? Are Sunday-school picnics
the only proper place for clergymen to perform
their ministrations? Is the enemy only to be fought
where he has no army ? If Young Australia is
to grow up to the full heighth ef his opportunities,
parents, employers, parsons—aye, and journalists
—must do their duty with more determination and
less of mawkish dodging of plain facts and ugly
necessities.
The Reverend Janies Jefferis, LL.B.
Illustrating our pages, as we occasionally do,
with the effigies of distinguished ecclesiastics, and
adding a few biographic particulars of their re-
spective careers, we sensitively guard ourselves
against all denominational predilections, and
examine those wo select from a thoroughly unsec-
tarian standpoint. Intelligence, probity, and
public spirit are not the exclusive characteristics
of any body of men, because, if the great majority
of a community were not morally attuned to aspire
to a high ideal, and to live honestly and decorously,
signs of disintegration and decay would soon
manifest themselves. Pre-eminence is not
generally so much a reward as a recognition of
merit among religious people. The selection of
the fittest is acted upon much more conscientiously
by Christian congregations than by political con-
stituencies ; and modest men are often forced into
positions to which they never aspired, but from
which they could not shrink without exhibiting
moral cowardice. The Rev. James Jefferis, who
has recently left our shores to recruit his health,
is an admirable instance of an even-tempered
gentleman, with a well-balanced mind, who never
sought promotion, but on whom distinction fell in
spite of himself. We look at him as a man of the
world and a citizen of Sydney, quite irrespective
of bis clerical position; although even in this
latter respect, he approaches nearer the
poet Cowper’s typical clergyman than any
other member of the “cloth” we can call
to our memory. He is grave, unaffected, sym-
pathetic, resolute of will, zealous, and highly
cultured. This commendation would be arrant
bosh if it were not absolutely true —if he had left a
real enemy behind him, or one who did not wish him
well (in the twofold sense of the phrase). The
particulars of his life, which have been linked
together with some trouble, will justify our
opinion of his character. He was born at Bristol,
England, in 1833. His father, Mr. James Jefferia,
was a well-known builder, and was distinguished
alike for his industry and intelligence. Belated
on the maternal side to the Townsends, an in-
fluential local family, the Bey. Mr. Jefferia had
brilliant opportunities of advancement if he sought
it in the Church of England, and offers were
actually made him, in his seventeenth year, to
study for the ministry of that Church at Oxford or
Cambridge, but he had in him the fibre and the
Are of the old Nonconformist; he acted up
resolutely to the dictates of his conscience, and so
far from swerving from his convictions through
self-interest, he conducted a Congregational
Sunday school in Brunswick Square, while
(through his inducement) his brother William
taught one in Eedcross street, Bristol. Having
received a good elementary education in his native
town, and enriched his mind with its many
legendary and historic associations —not for-
getting the career of the “ marvellous boy ”
Chatterton —he set out for London. At a
comparatively early age, he matriculated in the
London University, where he subsequently took
the degrees of B.A. and LL.B. with credit. Ho
entered on his clerical vocation at Saltash, in
Cornwall, and worked with such zeal and self-
negation that his health broke down. Consumptive
symptoms began to appear, and his medical ad-
visers exhorted him to seek a more genial climate
than that of his native land. Acting on the ad-
vice of those whose opinions he respected, and
perhaps desirous of carrying on his ministerial
work in a wider sphere and under more auspicious
circumstances, he sailed for Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia, where he officiated as pastor of the Con-
gregational Church for seventeen years. With
the ardent expressions of admiration and respect
which greeted him on his “call” to Sydney,_ in
1877, lying before ns, it would be mere affectation
to express any doubt as to the genuineness of his
ministerial work, or the value of his personal
worth. During his three years’ residence here, as
pastor of the Congregational Church, he not only
endeared himself to his co-religionists, but to
every right-minded man in the community. Mr.
Jefferis never allowed his religious bias to warp
his sense of justice and impartiality, and he was
every whit as pure a patriot (much abused word!)
and practical philanthropist as he was a clergyman.
We have heard him discourse on secular topics,
and have heard others comment admiringly on
his views; and thus, from both experience and
hearsay we can confidently assert that the demon-
stration at his departure—significant though it
was —did not half indicate his worth or the respect
in which he was held. His last contribution to
the political literature of Australia was an able
lecture (since published) delivered at Adelaide in
1878, on the Federation of the Colonies. Although
hoping to have an early opportunity of following
his chain of reasoning in these columns, we cannot
now resist the pleasure of reproducing his hopeful,
fervid peroration : “ I am not sanguine enough,”
he said, “to think that a work of this magnitude
could be completed in a year, or in two jears, but
I think that in seven years we ought to be able to
lay the topmost stone of the edifice of confedera-
tion with abundant rejoicing. It was in 1787 that
the first colonists landed upon the shores of Aus-
tralia. What could be better than that our first
centenary in 1887 should witness the union of all
those flourishing republics i hat have risen to the
dignity of national life ? Who has enthusiasm to
commence the necessary agitation, and who will
have mind of clearness and heart of faith to carry
it on? What statesman from among those who,
by long and honorable service, have deserved well
of their country, will combine for the first great
act of this great political drama ? The names of
Washington, Madison, and Hamilton will stimu-
late the chivalry of America for a thousand years
to come. What names in the long centuries of
our glorious future will be counted worthy of
highest honour as the names of those who founded
the Dominion of Australia ?” These are “words
that breathe and thoughts that bum”—words
which will fill many with a cheering hope that the
gentleman who gave utterance to them will soon
return, fully restored to health, and lend his
assistance in bringing about that Australian
solidarity which he so glowingly anticipates!
Another Daily Paper.
The news that the proprietary of the Express are about
to start a new daily paper should astonish no one. The
brilliant success, artistic and pecuniary, which has
attended the Freeman’s rival since it first burst a
meteor upon the journalistic world, doubtless justifies
Dean Leonard and his coadjutors in the supposition
that their new venture will prove a profitable specula-
tion. Brought out upon the lines of the Express, it
would seem to the calm and dispassionate mind that
its triumph must be inevitable. Why, a mere glance at
the Express at once satisfies the reader as to its in-
trinsic merit. The jewels of genius coruscate upon its
every page. Its leaders —short, sharp, and to the point
—are chef d'amvrts of journalistic art. Then the
“ Rambler I’* Here, now, are masterly solidity*
sterling humor, and trenchant satire. Then the bold
THE REVEREND JAMES JEFFERIS, LL.B. (From a Photo, by Boyd).


I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Thsodoeb Staigee, analytical
chemist. ’ Advt.
and artistic manner in which the clippings are done!
Sublime! We do not know to a day or two when the
new journal is to appear ; but when it does come out,
we have no hesitation in saying it will cause a con-
siderable amount of astonishment to the public
generally—and very possibly a little surprise also to its
adventurous proprietary. We trust, however, that the
Express will not be discontinued. Life is hard enough
to bear as it is ; but life without that journal to soothe
one’s sorrows would be insupportable.
POLITICAL POINTS.
John Dillon, M.P., married.
G. A. Lloyd to be offered a portfolio.
It is said that Mr. Lackey visits England
shortly.
William Forster unanimously elected leader of
the Opposition.
W. R. Campbell relates some remarkable “ heppi-
sodes” in the life of ’Enry Parkes.
Dan O’Connor has been requested by political
men not to interfere with the arrangements of the
Opposition.
Mr. John Dillon, M.P., is one the Fellows of
St. John’s Roman Catholic College, yet he is an ex-
treme Secularist.
The Department of Mines, under the Hon. E. A.
Baker, is the best managed of all the Government offices.
Every letter is answered in 24 hours.
T. M. Slattery reading up May’s Parliamentary
Practice and Parkes’s Speeches—to understand the one
and expose the inconsistency of the other.
Forster already desires to know how James
Watson is going to increase the revenue, and suggests
a tax on insolvent estates and on begging letters to dis-
tinguished statesmen.
Forster wants to know how Parkes and Samuel
hit it on the Proctor Sunday affair; the two former
being in the Cabinet together, and Samuel (whatever
else he was) being a strict Saturday believer, while
Parkes is a strict—ahem! humbug—Sunday adherent.
R. Burdett Smith sent in to the Minister for
Works requisitions for half a million of public money
for roads, bridges, wharves, and public buildings in his
constituency. Let us see. One hundred and eight
members, at £500,000 each ; total, £54,000,000! (A
fact.)
No sentiment uttered in the newspaper press of
this colony has ever found such wide response as that
sentiment of The Bulletin’s for a true Australian party.
We should be rightly understood. “ Australian party”
does not necessarily mean “Australian born." That
would be a real geebung notion. Men of genuine Aus-
tralian instincts and aspirations, whatever may be their
nationality, are the essentials to this new party. The
men who are to be grasped, throttled, and kicked out of
the politics of the country are those whose lungs have
feebly struggled in the fetid atmosphere of human
slavery, oppression, and wrong, and who would inocu-
late the life-blood of this country with old-world
recollections, —the bitterest recollections that can
afflict the mind of man. For the right time and the
true hill, trust The Bulletin.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Kate Kelly visiting the caves at Oberon.
Angus Cameron to be banquetted on Friday.
Hayes’s Commercial Hotel, Cobar, totally
destroyed by fire.
Lingard remains in the colonies till August and
then goes to America.
The Hon. William Forster will be in Sydney by
the 14th or 28th instant.
Water supply of Sydney awfully short. Aider-
men still allowed to live.
The population of North Shore is increasing—
Mrs. B. three daughters.
Mr. A. O. Moriarity, Lands Department, granted
six months’ leave of absence.
A letter from Bombay awaits his Grace the
Duke of Manchester at this office.
Mr. Grantley Fitzhardinge appointed Crown
Prosecutor for the Southern District.
The Rev. W. Wilson, pastor of the Wesleyan
Church, Mudgee, died on Tuesday, after a short illness
The New Zealanders advise Mr. Smythe to go
home and bring out Huxley or Tyndall.
Mr. R. H. Sempill, the well-known official
assignee, is dead— suddenly, from apoplexy, while in
bed.
His Lordship Bishop Pearson, of Newcastle,
arrived in Sydney on Wednesday. He graciously left
his name as a subscriber.
Professor Miller, who has been giving some
grand exhibitions at the School of Arts, has arranged
to establish a gymnasium.
The best Christmas gift we’ve heard of is that
made by n North Shore lady—God bless her —to her
husband. Three daughters!
People are pleased to see Miss Christian in
Sydney, but they will be better pleased when they hear
her. She has a lot of new songs.
We deeply regret to record the severe illness of
his Lordship, Bishop Barker. He had a slight attack
of paralysis on Friday, and will require entire rest and
quiet.
Miss Deakin will sing in “ Pirates of Penzance ”
when produced here. Meanwhile, the Sydney public
will hoar her again in concert, for which, we hear, she
is open to engagement.
Miss Christian refuses to surrender her opinion to
that of the Melbourne newspaper critics, as to the cor-
rect reading of the opening bar in the “ Messiah " duet,
“ He shall feed His flock.”
Some straight-laced, and perhaps very good
people, strongly object to the Punch and Judy show at
the Exhibition in aid of St. Thomas’s Church, North
Shore. We suppose, however, it’s all “biz."
Groat sensation in Camden district about the
last Bulletin and dog poisoning. Goode describes the
dog poisoner as “ another miserable, diied-np abortion,
unworthy the name of man.” Pretty lively!
Mr. E. E. Waters, editor of the Evening
News, is seriously ill. We sincerely offer him our
sympathies, and trust that he may soon be able to wield
his intelligent pen in the leading columns again.
It appears that the gift of the Riley Brothers of
£l,OOO, for an altar in St. Mary’s Cathedral, was dic-
tated by the very fine feeling of perpetuating a remem.
brance of the close, life-long friendship that existed
between their father and the late Archbishop Folding.
The gift was made public without their consent.
The usual holiday story shot dead acci-
dentally by a comrade while out for wallabies, Ac.
Valuable lives are every year lost in this way. Either the
comrades are shamefully ignorant of the handling of a
gun, or they are guilty of such negligence as to demand
pretty severe punishment. We’ll watch the next in-
quest on affairs of this kind.
There is complaint from the Anglican residents
of the New England district that their Bishop should
be so long away, and so little done for the Church,
while the E.C. Bishop is vigorously extending his
religion in every small township throughout the vast
diocese ; and yet few of the provincial districts has so
numerous and influential an Anglican body.
A man named John Reynolds, resident at the
Glebe, died at the Infirmary on Thursday from tetanus.
He essayed some days previously to stop a runaway
horse, and was dashed against a fence; several splinters
entered his arm ; he was attended to by a chemist’s
ass is taut, then by a doctor, and finally underwent an
operation at the Infirmary, where, however, he suc-
cumbed to tetanus. This man met his death in doing
a public service. From the public purse ought his wife
and children to find restitution.
(a) Fiji is a Crown colony of a “ severe type.”
(h) The Kai-sis are the native tiers Hat. The Gover-
nor’s policy has been throughout to pamper the High
Chiefs, and turn a deaf ear to the wrongs of the
masses.
(e) The last tax under which Fiji groans was levied
upon land. The only things left untaxed now are
produce.
(d) The whites are taxed to the uttermost, and so
are the natives, the latter especially. They are first
taxed for the Government, secondly for the Wesleyan
Mission (this is called an offering, but it is virtually a
tax), thirdly for the annual assemblage of chiefs at the
Native Parliament, fourthly for the private benefit of
their own particular chiefs.
(e) His Excellency is a master of diplomatic rhodo-
montade, and never fails in a crowd to put everything
plausibly in such a light that people for the moment
are led away against their own convictions.
(J) Private information, tittle-tattle, and secret
espionage—Foucht 5 fashion —are the rule. No matter
where or under what circumstances anything is said
that is not flattering to the Governor or his policy, it
is perfectly certain to be repeated to his Excellency
within a very short time. Lying and hypocrisy, in-
stead of openessl and candour, are therefore the rule,
except amongst those (and they are very few) who are
not wholly independent of the Government.
(g) Example 1. A loan of £150,000 is te be raised for
Fiji. Of that sum £3500 has been set aside as “ part
payment of the High Commissioner’s Yacht.” The fact
is that Sir A. Gordon and the Admiralty have never hit
it off. The Commodore on the Australian station
sometimes is obliged to “regret that he is unable to
provide his Excellency with a ship” exactly at the
moment that one is wanted. His Excellency, there-
fore, orders a yacht for the use of the High Com-
missioner, and charges Fiji with £3500 of the purchase
money / ff. Fiji has no more to do with the High Com-
mission than with Timbnctoo, but Fiji is small and
weak and powerless, and the Governor is strong. He does
Ned Kelly on paper, and bails up (politically, of course)
Fiji successfully to the tune of £3.500. [This has not
actually been done at present, but it has been gazetted
in the Royal Gazette as one of his Excellency’s pro-
posals, which is much the same thing as un fait accompli.]
(h) The Colonial Secretary of Fiji, some months
back, wrote to the proprietor of one of the local
journals requiring the authority for a certain report
which appeared in its columns one morning, assigning
as his reason that the report in question was “evi-
dently a quotation from an official report, which had
not yet been submitted to his Excellency." Of course,
the information was refused.
fi) The Governor has given an extra contract to the
A.S.N. Co. for running an occasional mail service to
Tonga which is of no earthly use to Fiji, while he re-
fuseid any extra subsidy for a New Zealand mail service.
(j) The Government printing, although advertised
for and accepted by tender, is not all sent to the suc-
cessful tenderer.
(k) His Excellency is High Commissioner of the
Western Pacific, Consul-General for Great Britain in
the Pacific, and Governor now of New Zealand.
(l) At a great ball given at the Mauritius during his
Excellency’s regime no cards of invitation were sent to
him, and the Mayor of the town was asked to preside
instead of the Governor.
(m) Te Whiti, the great Maori chief, is reported re-
cently to have called Sir Arthur Gordon the “ Son of
Man," and to have openly expressed his delight that
the Governor of Fiji was coming to New Zealand.
Probates and Administrations.
John Walker, of Maekay, Queensland, died
June 4, 1879. Personalty, £3OOO.
Henry Claydon, of Milton, died June 21,1880;
personalty, £2600. Executor, Nathan Claydon.
Alex. McMillan, of Clarence River, died June 8,
1880; personalty, £2OOO. Executor, Mary McMillan.
Christopher Mcßae, of Stroud, died January 3,
1880; personalty, £5OOO. Executor, Duncan McEae.
C. F. Kean, of Grafton, contractor, died May
17, 1880 ; personalty, £2OOO. Executor, Bridget Kean.
Peter Davis, of St, Kilda, Melbourne, died 30th
July, 1879; personalty, £17,000. Executor, P. S.
Davis.
Walter Galley, of Hinton, died May 30, 1880;
personalty, £7OOO. Executors, J. M. Sanders and H. P.
Stacey.
John Donelly, of Clarence River, died Feb. 10,
1880. Goods sworn under £lOOO. Executor, Mary
“Donelly.
Joseph Marshall, of Sydney, brewer, died May
18, 1880 ; personalty, £19,000. Executor, Esther
Marshall.
James Witcombe, of Hay, died May 4, 1880 ;
personalty, £5OOO. Executors, T. W. Jacob and John
Witcombe.
Henry George Hamilton, of England, died
March 25, 1879; personalty, £5454. Administrator,
C. P. Clive.
The Hon. George William Lord, M.L.C., of
Darlinghurst Road, Sydney, died 9th May, 1880. Per.
sonalty sworn under £90,000. Executors, Elizabeth
Lord, George Lee Lord, and Thomas Allright Dibbs.
Rev. Jobn Graham, late of Sydney, died Aug.
1,1879. Goods sworn under £9550. Administrator,
C. H. Myles,
David Baillie, contractor, Crown-street, Sydney,
died March 23,1830; personalty; £2500. Administrator,
William Cain.
Hon. John Thomas Smith, of Melbourne, died
30th January, 1879; personalty, £50,500. Executor,
Sydney Smith.
Reuben Uther, of Crown-street, Sydney, died
10th July, 1880; personalty, £lO,OOO. Executors, W. J.
Uther and H. S. King.
George Fieldhouse, of Campbelltown, died
March 24,1880. Personalty, £2OOO. Executors, E. H.,
W. F., and Mary Fieldhouse.
James Blair, late of Kent-St., Sydney, died
Feb. 21,1880. Goods sworn under £l2OO. Executors,
Francis Blair and J. E. Blair.
Mary Ann Smidmore, of St. Peters, Cook’s
River, died March 16, 1880. Goods sworn at £5OOO.
Executor, Thomas Smidmore.
Isabella Inches, of Tamworth, widow, died
March 26, 1880. Personalty, £BOOO. Executors, T. R.
Hutchings and H. L. Cousens.
Emma Jane Bodenham, of Windsor, spinster,
died March 14,1880. Goods sworn under £l2OO. Ad-
ministrator, W. W. Bodenham.
R. T. Harrison, of Hartwood Station, Mnrrum-
bidgee District, died Feb. 26,1830. Goods sworn under
£1250. Executor, George Harrison.
Thomas Kelly, late of Calabash, near Young,
died Feb. 26, 1880. Goods sworn under £3OOO. Exe-
cutors, Samuel Tout and Sarah Tout.
John Frost, of Hovel’s Creek, died March 13,
1880. Personalty, £2500. Executors, William Frost,
Catherine Frost, and Elizabeth Frost.
Edward Brown, of Gore-Street, Melbourne,
squatter, died Dec. 12,1879. Goods sworn under £7500.
Executors, Peter Wright and Robert Wright.
Barbara Isaacs, of England, late of Sydney,
widow, died October 25, 1878; personalty, £5lOO.
Executors, Rev. H. W. Mort and H. E. Allen.
John F. Doyle, of Rosebrook, Musclebrook,
died 18th May, 1880; personalty, £7OOO. Executors,
R. R. Doyle and A. J. Doyle and Robert Doyle.
Thomas Hoskisson, late of Sackville Reach,
Hawkesbury River, grazier, died Jan. 31, 1880. Goods
sworn under £11,820. Executor, Joseph Davin.
John George Llewellyn, of North Yass, died
March 7,1880. Goods sworn uuder £12,000. Probate
granted to R. W. Pearson and Rev. A. D. Faunce.
Wm. Adam Purves, of Portobello, Edinburgh,
Scotland, died Jan. 11, 1880. Personalty, £6OOO. Ex-
ecutors, J. M. Purves, F. A. A. Willson, and B.
Barton.
John Cosgrove, of Billyringa, Cooma, died
March 20,1880; personalty, £45,000. Executors—Mary
Cosgrove, Alex. Montague, James and William
Cosgrove.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
< The Bourke-street Public School children made
i their master, Mr. P. D. M'Cormiok, a neat and suit-
-1 able Christmas present. John Farrell, sen., of
1 Manly Beach, has been fined £lO for illegally using a
bull, by turning it into his own paddock with other
cattle. Constable M'lntosh, of the Sydney police,
who had been twelve years in the force, and had pre-
viously been on active service with the 71st High-
landers in India, died suddenly, of apoplexy, at
1 Pyrmont, on the 29th. Queensland declines to have
a shorter quarantine than heretofore for sheep arriving
from the other colonies or foreign ports. South Aus-
tralia urged a change owing to the absence of scab in
sheep, and Mr. Bruce, of Sydney, was favorable. The
stockowners of the Northern colony were, however,
strongly opposed to any alteration. At Gympie two
natives attacked and nearly murdered a countryman,
on account of his having informed a woman, whom one
of his assailants wanted to marry, that he was a married
man with a family. One of the men was arrested.
The Queensland Executive have commuted the death
sentence passed on George Bailey, a lad of fourteen,
found guilty of criminal assault, to three years in a re-
formatory. A Queensland paper says that “At the
Parramatta Hospital there are now three cases of
leprosy.” This statement is stretching the leperty of
the press to the utmost. The Brisbane pilot service
costs annually £37,000, and yields about £16,000.
There are in Gympie two theatres and one pawnbroker.
Six years ago the only public building was a Baptist
Chapel. Athletic sports were held at Camden on
New Year’s Day. The winners of the principle events
were: Longhurst, throwing the 141 b hammer, 73ft.
6in.; Elliott, band race; Mantova, the 100 yards
event; and Campbell the 410 yards. Dr. Goode offici-
ated as judge. The water scare has extended to
Campbelltown, and unless rain falls soon, a distance of
four miles will have to be travelled in order to procure
it. A complimentary dinner is to be given to Mr. W.
M’Court, of Moss Yale, one of the unsuccessful candi-
dates for the electorate of Camden.——A gentleman
residing near Campbelltown has suffered greatly from
the depredations committed by dogs. He has had one
alpaca killed and another dreadfully lacerated. Deer,
sheep, and pigs, have also been injured.——Mr. G.
Francis, who was assisted by Mr. Gipps, worked twelve
hours a day when running the levels of the Kenny Hill
water scheme, and got through work in three days that
would nave taken civil servants a month. A cricket
match was played at Campbelltown on New Year’s
Day, between the Campbelltown and Carlingford Cricket
Clubs, resulting in a win for Campbelltown. The scores
were 135 with five wickets to fall, and 133 respectively.
Jones 51 for the winners, and Harris 35 for the losers,
were the top scorers, The visitors were enter-
tained at dinner at Atkinson’s Hotel at midday,
and returned to Sydney by the 8 p.m. train.
The seventh annual session of the Grand Lodge of New
Zealand of Independent Order of Good Templars was
recently held at Wellington, and various business trans-
acted. At the Magistrate’s Court, Wellington, N.Z.,
lately, John Robertson was remanded to Sydney, it
being alleged that he was one of the persons concerned
in the robbery of a sum of money and jewellery in 1878.
An ounce to the load is the result of a washing at
j the new Wilcannia goldfield. Victoria was not offi-
cially represented at the Albury railway opening, that
colony electing rather to wait till a bridge is put across
the Murray, aud the railway lines are really connected.
—Commercial Travellers’ Association founded in Mel-
bourne. Free pardon offered to accomplices in the
Tararua gold robbery. The Victorian Government
are recovering duties on estates undervalued.
An entertainment by the Cudal Amateur Dramatic
Club, a few weeks ago, realized the sum of £l7,
which was handed over to the School of Arts build-
ing fund. Another performance was announced to
take place on New Year’s day for the same laudable
purpose, but for want of sufficient female characters it
fell through. No convictions for assaults on Chinese
in Victoria. Great regret (now that the line t >
Albury is finished), is felt at the Murray being still
unspanned by a bridge.——Metropolitan Horticultural
Society to be established in Sydney. 17,272 tons was
the coal export of Newcastle last week. Ralph
Reay, an elderly man, foreman to Mr. Russell, New-
castle, died from injuries to his chest caused bv his
falling while stepping from a vessel to the wharf.
Mr. John Roach, well-known about Newcastle, was
accidentally killed by a truck at the Borehole pit.
The last Carooar monthly escort was 627 oz. Bur-
ton’s Circus good business at Adelong. Another rush
at the lower lead, Temora. Mrs. Sutherland, an old
and respected resident of Goulbum, died recently at
Braid wood. Henry Murray, 63 years of age, was
found dead on the roadside at Allyn River, Maitland
district. He had been thrown from his horse, was
picked up and allowed to remain all night uncared for—
though only fifty paces from a dwelling; dead next
morning. Blayney Goldmining Company splendid
prospects. Bountiful harvest in the Bathurst district
A man was charged at the Central Police Court,
Sydney, with stealing bacon; he called a witness in
defence who swore he (witness) gave prisoner the bacon.
Thereupon the witness was arrested, and both stand re-
manded with a certainty of conviction. Mr. H.
Skillman, public school teacher, of Ullornlla, presented
with a gold watch and an address prior to leaving for
Granville. George Allen, four years old, kicked,
at North Shore, by a horse; hopeless case.
Eliza Rowan, confinee Darlinghurst Gaol, died in the
Gaol Hospital on Monday. 1000 persons at the
Kechabite picnic. New Tear’s Day. C. E. Record
declares against the sporting tendencies of the time.
Bathurst team of riflemen defeated Windsor by five
points. Child devoured by dingoes at Muna Creek,
near Miva, Queensland. During a storm at Hobart,
30 children took refuge in a cricket pavilion, which,
unable to resist the violence of the tempest, collapsed.
Two children were killed, and 25 injured, some of them
seriously. Supply of water to the abattoirs and the
’bus companies of Sydney stopped.——George Wilson,
a waiter, killed at Randwick by falling right beneath a
van wheel when the vehicle was in motion. The man
Preston and his wife, charged with the death, at In-
verell, of a girl named Emma Cross, have been com-
mitted for trial for manslaughter ; ' the evidence
disclosed a case of gross ill-treatment. Two or three
cases of suspected incendiarism in the Inverell dis-
trict. A seal five feet long has been captured
at Newcastle. Ballarat yield for last week 46350 z.,
and a dividend of £5486. South Clunes Company got
781 oz. gold from 2062 tons of stone. Sandhurst cur-
rent yield 40000 z., dividend £4825. There were 771
candidates for examination at the Melbourne University
this year. The Carlisle Castle Hotel, Kingston, New-
town, run by Mr. C. Fredericks, the well-known tenor,
reports “ full houses,”
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Wallace Ross at Dublin.
Agrarian murder in Cork.
Blanqui, communist, dead.
German Squadron for the Pacific.
France and the Vatican friendly.
Troops dispatched from India to Natal.
Tumult in Tuam, Limerick, and Galway.
Roll-up of 30,000 Land-Leaguers in Galway.
Terribly severe winter in England and America.
Fenian scares in London and Liverpool. Arsenals
threatened.
The ploughshare and the bayonet thriving to-
gether in Ireland.
Military guards in Dublin strengthened during
the Land Leaguers’ trial.
British Government promising immediate re-
form in the Irish Land Laws.
Boers and native insurgents defeated, with con-
siderable loss, by the British.
Peace Preservation Act to be enacted in Ire-
land, and the Habeas Corpus Act to be suspended.
The leaders of the Boer rebellion disapprove of
the recent massacre of the British. Utrecht has been
seized by the rebels.
The jury that tries Parnell and others is
composed of eight Catholics, three Protestants, and
one Quaker. [They’re not Christians, if they don’t
disagree.]
Laycock-Hanlan match, 17th January, exciting
great interest. Hanlan favourite. He regards Laycock
with some alarm Laycock advantageously shortened
his sculls.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The charge is made that a large number of Mel-
bourne ladies paint.
Pretty ladies painted for gas-light should never
dance until daylight.
A good soldier is an easy catch. He is always
ready for an engagement.
Fanny Davenport’s new play in four acts and
forty costumes, is to be rechristened “The Dressmaker’s
Dream.”
Thirty-one girls of the William-street Public
school won certificates or medals at the Sydney Inter-
national Exhibition.
The released Communist female leader, Louise
Michel, was kissed by the men and embraced by the
women on arriving in Paris.
“ Do you love this girl better than yon do her
sister ?” was what a Kansas clergyman asked the man
who stood before him to be made a husband.
Animals and birds treated in conventional
manner and interspersed amid the general design of
brocaded stuffs, are a feature in late importations.
A Burwood girl asked a George-street business
man if he bad any good-looking ladies’ boots, whereupon
be replied with a smile, quite bland, “ They are not for
yourself, are they ?”
Ladies are now going in heavily for lace. We
have it on bonnets, bats, dresses, parasols, pockethaud-
kerchiefs, caps—in fact, almost everything turned out
in the shape of dress is set off with lace.
Adolphus (in answer to young wife’s question)
—“ I think we’ll have some nice roast mutton and cauli-
flower to-day.” Wilhelmina (proud of her cooking)—
“ Oh, yes, and I’ll bake the cauliflowers with the meat
so as to give it a nice flavour.”
The Argyle Ponded and Free Stores.
The subject of our picture is the Argyle Bonded and
Free Warehouses, the proprietor of which is in every
sense an honorable and successful colonist. The stores
were formerly the Custom house of Sydney, and Mr.
Ives succeeded and has held them for the past twenty-
five years. The stores are monsters in their way,
occupying nearly an acre of ground, and are filled to
overflowing with casks of brandy, whisky, and beer,
cases of opium, bags of rice, and other dutiable goods.
The Argyle Stores are par excellence the leading bonded
stores of the colony, holding, as they do, nearly as
much, or quite as much as any other two establishments
of the kind in Sydney. Yesterday morning, a
gentleman from onr establishment wandered through
cellars—first, second, and third floors of the Bonded
Warehouses, where he was pointed out tens of
thousands of gallons of brandy, of whisky, of rum,
and of other spirits, which the Government
will get 12s. a gallon from; thousands of bottles
and cases of wine, sparkling and otherwise,
from which the Government will obtain 10s. and 5s. per
gallon; cases of beer, in glass and wood, from which
the Government will get fid. and 9d. a gallon; hogs-
heads and tierces of tobacco in leaf, each holding 15001b.
or 16001b., the duty on which is Is per lb., and on the
manufactured 2s. per lb.; several hundred small cases
of opium, yet worth £140 a case, and the duty on which
is 10s. per lb.; cases of cigars, on which the Govern-
ment claim 5s. per lb.; galvanised iron and wire, 40s.
per ton, and rice 60s. per ton, to the Government in
this free-trade country. But we must get revenue
somehow. In the free stores or warehouses, wool and
colonial and imported goods, including furniture, are
stored at a very small charge, in consequence, we
believe, of the great competition. Of the acre of land
covered with the Argyle store, 75 per cent, are bonded
and 25 per cent, free goods. This store faces two streets,
Argyle-street and Ives-street. The construction of the
immense buildings is the glory of architects for solidity
—the walls being four to six feet thick and iron-barred.
It is impossible to estimate the value of the Argyle
buildings, and particularly their contents, but we should
say a million of money is under the mart. We would
like to write something about Mr. Ives’ kerosene stores
at the water’s edge of North Shore, with storage capa-
city for 20,000 cases —now holding 10,000 cases, duty
fid. per gallon—but want ef space precludes the possi-
bility of our doing so now, and it must therefore be left
to a future opportunity.
Final Reflections of Sir Arthur Gordon on
leaving Fiji.
I du delight that Freedom’s cause
Es fur away as Payris is; (a)
I couldn’t see her stick her claws
In them infernal Fiji Kai-sis. (b)
It’s wal enough agin a king
To dror revolves and triggers.
But libbaty’s a kind o’ thing
That don’t agree with niggers.
I du believe the people wont
A tax on teas aud coffees, (a)
That nothing aint extravygant—
Purvidin’ I’m in office ;
For I hev detuned this country since
My glass filled my eye sockets;
A native chief I reverence, (d)
But not the people’s pockets.
I du believe its wise and good
To back up Wesleyan Missions,
Thet is on sartin understood
An’ orthydox conditions.
I du believe claptrap the stuff
For Governors to sport on; (d)
The people’s oilers soft enough
To make hard money out on.
I du believe in secret ways
O’ teachin’ an’ conyartin; (J)
The bread comes back ’fore many days.
An’ buttered is for sartin.
I mean in teachin’ till one busts
’Bout diplomatic ruses.
But not convartin’ public trusts
To very privit uses, (g)
I don’t believe, upon my soul.
In the great Press’ freedom,
To pint the people to the goal.
An’ in the traces lead ’em. (h)
Palsied the tongue that cracks its jokes.
At Tongan contracts s') ; ntin’, (i)
An’ withered be the nos.- t ■ pokes
Inter the Guv’ment priu.iu’. (j)
I du like men to fawn and praise
Great me that hez the grantin'
O’ jobs in every thing that pays,
I du believe in cantin’.”
This doth my cup with billets fill, ( k )
This lays all thoughts of care to rest,
I don’t believe in prinoerple.
But oh ! I du in interest.
I du believe in bein’ this
Or that, ef it may happen—
(One way or t’other handiest is
To ketch the people nappin’,)
It ain’t by princerples or men
My preudent course is steadied;
I scent which pays the best, and then
Go into it bald-headed.
In short, I firmly du believe
In humbug generally,
For its a thing that I perceive
To hev a solid vally.
This heth I, Arthur Gordon, been
In Trinidad and Fiji,
Mauritius, too, hath clearly seen (I)
They snubbed and understood me; —
New Zealand will not let me rule.
Or mek a mild sensasion :
But Te Whiti (m)and I may play the fool
In my old nigger fashion.


SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Nothing but waltzes the rule at evening
-parties in this city just now.
The daughter of one of the soft goods princes
of Sydney is betrothed to a leading amateur sculler.
Sleeves are now worn so tight that it seems
probable they will soon be made to button down the
arm.
An effort is being made in this city to introduce
short dresses for evening wear, for young ladies at
least.
The son of a Darlinghurst baronet and a young
lady of Cambelltown are affianced. Without consent,
too, they say.
Sleeves puffed at the shoulders are again coming
into fashion; these puffs have a pretty effect when
in two colors.
It is becoming fashionable to cover hats and bon-
nets with the small body feathers of pheasants and other
rich-colored birds.
The highest people in rank and society at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, n’ e the plainest dressed. The
others cannot afford to d * ess plainly.
Mr. Charles Cowper. eldest son of the Sheriff,
is engaged to the eldest daughter of one of the leading
solicitors of Sydney, resident at Burwood.
The prettiest girl in Parramatta is an incor-
rigible flirt, and has caused more than one young
fellow to emigrate to green fields and pastures new.
Two young ladies at Milson’s Point will
celebrate* Anniversary Day by getting married. The
ceremony will take place at St. James’ Church, Sydney.
A very effective and elegant trimming adopted
in a leading Sydney house for a handsome dress is
kilting, every plait of which is embroidered with a
wreath of pale pink and white roses.
The son of a leading member of the Opposition
is engaged to the daughter of an Albury lady. A lean-
lag for the Treasury was always observable in the
family.
A marriage has been arranged, and wil take
place in March next, between a Queenslai. squatter,
residing near Dalby, and the daughter of i r 1-known
Sydney merchant, resident at Moore Park.
It has been suggested that, as the means o. ght-
iug up jewellery by electricity has been discovered 'me
ingenious device may enable ladies to give theirj a-
ments voices by the help of tiny telephones!
Mrs. George Maiden, of Eveleigh House,
Marrickville, gave a grand party on New Year’s Eve
niaht, at which there was a large assemblage. A
Newtown belle was particularly captivating.
Miss Webb, daughter of Mr. E. Webb,M.L.A.,
was married at Bathurst, on the 29th ultimo, to Mr.
Thompson, of Sydney. The dresses of the bride and
bridegroom were very beautiful. The attendance was
large, fashionable, and influential.
Mrs. Goring, sister of the ill-fated Miss Dobie,
was seen in Qneen-street, Auckland, recently wearing a
neat black and white print dress. She deserves
credit for ignoring the stupid fashion of wearing black
dresses trimmed with crape, which are most un-
suitable for this warm climate.
At the North Shore, the estimable wife and
daughters of the clergyman are always the last at
church. A worshipper complains of this, and then goes
on to describe what dresses the curate’s pretty
daughters wear, and how they look in them. We
always thought worshippers were attentive people—of
course, “the sex” excepted.
The marriage of Mr. John Dillon, M.L.A. for
Tenterfleld, barrister-at-law, took place at St. Saviour’s
Church of England Cathedral, Goulbum, on Sunday
last, New Year’s Day. The bride was Maude, niece and
adopted daughter of Mr. Henry Burne, J.P., of Braid,
wood. Bishop Thomas and Archdeacon Puddieombe
performed the ceremony.
A bachelors’ ball is on the tapis at Cudal, and
from what can be gathered it will be a prodigious success.
Mr. E. C. Barry, son of the Rev. Zachary Barry, and
manager of the Commercial Bank, is exerting himself
in the matter. He is a perfect “ demon” amongst the
ladies, or, as they describe him, “quite an angel.” He
is sure to bring together a host of the prettiest girls in
the district.
One of the contributors to the last Exhibition of
the Old Society of Water Colours in London was
H.R.H. the Princess Louise, who sent a number of
paintings, chiefly views taken during her stay in
Canada, which were highly spoken of in the papers and
art journals, and, what is more interesting and remark-
able, criticised with the same freedom as the works of
other artists.
Mr. Joseph Coates, the well-known and popular
cricketer, who is familiariy known as “ Yorkey,” was
married on the 21st December to Miss Rebecca
Gardiner, fifth daughter ot the Lord of Gobolion. The
ceremony, performed by the Rev. J. C. Bravey, took
place at the residence of the bride’s parents, near
Wellington, N.S.W. The couple have the hearty good
wishes of all.
The amount of money expended in Paris on dolls
is absolutely astonishing. Several large business houses
are said to make as much as £30,000 a year by furnish-
ing dolls, trousseaux and jewellery, and it is stated that
£43 was paid not long since for the wedding dress alone
of a doll! On the outfit of the dolls of some of the
little princesses, as much money is often lavished as on
the attire of their owners. [For this colony, Hoff,
nung!]
Mr. Frederick Cameron Macarthur, Police
Magistrate at Warialda, and who is a son of the late
James Macarthur, and grandson of Hannibal Macarthur,
of Parramatta, was married on the 27th December to
Georgina Burgess Shadforth Gordon, third daughter of
Hugh Gordon, Esq., of Strathbogie, New England, and
formerly M.P. for the district. The ceremony took
place at the residence of the bride’s parents. Eev. W.
Eglinton officiated.
There were some very pretty toilets at the
soiree dansante at the breaking up of the Modem High
School in Bourke-street. The daughter of one of our
prominent legislators was simply but tastefully dressed
in white, which harmonised well with her bright eyes
and golden hair. Two sisters, brunettes, from Pad-
dington, wore dresses of white, trimmed with black and
gold, with floral ornaments to match. Another dashing
brunette, from the interior, wore an attractivecostume
composed of black velvet cuirass and underskirt, with
pink overskirt, sash, and kiltings. The most unique
dress of the evening was that worn by a young lady
from Glebe Point. This dress was pure white tarlatan,
the bodice and overskirt most tastefully ornamented
with natural ivy leaves. “An angel in pink” from
Eedtern attracted much attention. Strange to say,
the elderly gentlemen secured most feminine attention.
Is age again becoming fashionable ? The party was a
decided success, for the genial Head Master seems as
successful a host as he is a schoolmaster.
Miss Josephine Deakin’s Concert.
This interesting musical event took place at the
Masonic Hall on W ednesday, the 29th December. The
attendance was not numerous, but it was very select;
and those that were there endeavoured —and for the
most part succeeded—in making as much of themselves
as possible. The first number on the programme was a
trio—“ This magic wove scarf.” This was executed by
Miss Harvey, Mr. Hinchy, and Mr. Fairfax. The
gentlemen sang, as they invariably do, with much taste,
and Miss Harvey’s voice was heard to great advantage.
Miss Dealdn’s ballad, “ Spinning,” followed. This young
lady is gifted with a soprano voice of exceeding sweet-
ness and much power. She sang the ballad in a charm,
ing manner, and taking -her audience by storm, was
awarded an enthusiastic encore. Miss Deakin has
everything in her favor—young, good looks, a handsome
figure, and the sweetest voice. With these desiderata
she is bound to be a success in the musical world, and
we trust the time is not far distant when she will-
like divas who do not possess one-half her accomplish-
ments—be at a premium with the great impressaiios.
Mr. Charles Huenerbein played a paraphrase from
taust with a great deal of artistic finish, but was a trifle
burned in one or two of the passages. Dr. Maguire
sang the “ Colleen Bawn,” from Sir Jules Benedict’s
well-known opera, admirably, and in the second part
gave Diehl’s “ The Mariner” with distinguished
success. The gem of the evening, however, was
Gounad’s serenade, “ Berceuse,” given with admirable
feeling by the fair eneflciare. Mr. Hinchy gave
Carlo Pinsnti’s “ Say once more yon love” with such
nerve as to necessitate an encore ; and, indeed, both in
his solos and in his share of concerted pieces, this
gentleman proved himself to be a highly accomplished
artiste. In the course of the evening a young amateur,
Mr. Jones, gave in capital style the song “I fear no foe.”
We trust ere long to hear Miss Deakin warble to a
larger crowd, the reigning star of a large company—
and we think our wishes will be gratified, too. It is not
often that a bright and beautiful gem goes for a long
time unset.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“W. 8.” : Send answer. “ E.W.M.” : Too
lengthy for our columns. “J.L.N.”: Send along a
few items. “ H.P.” : Your poem is not up to our
standard. “ Junior ” : Tom King fought Heenan on
the 10th December, 1863, for £2OOO and defeated him.
“Banker” : Sara Flower’s grave is at Newtown,
neglected. Contributions sent to the editor of this
journal will be properly expended and accounted for
“F.E.” (authoress); Please send address. ——
“Leichhardt”: In our next.
LATE SPORTING.
Selim, the steeplechaser, has been sold for .£35.
Hawden saw Laycock beat Eiley ; and forfeited.
Wellington has been sold for 1000 guineas for
India.
Post betting is becoming fashionable in Eng-
land.
Eiley rowed in a paper boat in his match with
Laycock. *
If it had not been for Evans, the Victorians
might be batting up till now.
E. E. Jones’s .£lOOO sweep was won by a Club
of eight Parramatta railway employees.
First King did the fastest time for the Cham-
pion Stakts in 1878— three miles, sm. 265.
Swan walked, at Melbourne, 100 miles in 19
hours —quickest time ever done in Australia.
The Warwicks defeated the Stanmores on the
Stanmore cricket ground on New Year’s Day.
Tom Greville, the jockey, broke his jaw while
riding Windsor, at the Buninyong (V.) Eaces.
Donaldson (Henderson), of Newcastle, offers to
run any youth in the Northern district for £lOO a-side.
On New Year’s Day, in the match South Aus-
tralian Association Eleven v. Eighteen, Giffen scored
116.
Combo, an aboriginal, won four races at In-
verell on Boxing Day. His running high jump was sft.
lOin.
“Felix,” of the Australasian, still thinks
that the N.S.W. team was slightly stronger than the
Victorian one.
Moriarty, of Camden, and Eoyal, of South
Creek, are matched for £5O a-side, at Homebush, on the
15th February.
Allan was stiff and sore in the second innings of
the N.S.W. team. He always is when he doesn’t get
the wickets fast.
Grand Flaneur’s victory in the Y.E.C. Champion
Stakes stamps him as the grandest horse that we have
seen in Australia.
An Intercolonial Dog Show takes place in
Melbourne on the 13th, 14th, and 15th January.
Entries close on the Bth.
Mr. Chisholm and his friends brought off the
Highland Gathering with the usual success, though the
handicapping was a trifle off.
The Champion Eace Meeting is considered
usually the most uninteresting turf event of Victoria.
Growing inclination to abolish it.
Cook beat Eoberts, junr., easily by 239 points,
and during the game made the best break on record on
a championship table, viz., 165 points.
The highest figure obtained for the Irish King
yearlings, at the Flemington sale, was 170 guineas.
Mr. W. A. Long was one of the purchasers.
English papers say that if a colonial football
team visit England they will get more kicks than half-
pence. Football does not draw gate money there.
A breakwater at St. Kilda would make yachting
enjoyable in Hobson’s Bay, as there would then be safe
anchorage at a convenient distance from the metropolis.
At the little village of Garrick, in Tasmania, the
farmers and squatters in the vicinity subscribed enough
to give £2OO to one race—the Carrick Plate —on Boxing
Day.
The young and promising bat of the Warwick
Club, who disputed the umpire’s ruling in the match
with Stanmore, left himself open to a good castiga-
tion.
Hall was selected for his wicket-keeping, and in
that particular he acquitted himself creditably, being
of great use in the second innings of the Victorian
Eleven.
Groube and Palmer, the two last men in the
match with Northern Tasmania, put 140 together, being
a lai ger number than was ever obtained for the last
wicket in a malch.
A match was played on Christmas Day on the
East Melbourne ground between the East Melbourne
and Bendigo United Elevens. Horan scored 59, and
Elliott (not out) 60.
Eyce won the first prize (£6O) of the Great
Western Handicap at Lithgow. Crouch was second
(£2O), O’Connor third (£l2 10s), and Minchin fourth
(£7 10s). A splendid race.
The following are the results of the Glen Innes
Eaces on Monday :—Maiden Plate: Chumpkins. New
Year’s Gift: Barber. Novelty Handicap: Risk. Stock-
man’s Purse: Guide. The Cup : Barber.
The Taniwha, during her voyage from Auckland
to Melbourne, experienced very bad weather, but
behaved so well that the New Zealanders are confident
that she will prove a worthy foe to any of our crack
yachts.
The Australasian calls Horan’s miss a
“ butter-finger exhibition.” Arthur Gregory and
Hiddlestone are considered good batsmen, Wearne a
regular outsider, and Hall a weak batsman with high
stepping action.
The results of the Adelong Eaces, New Year’s
Day, are as follow: —Maiden Plate: Jocelyn. New
Year’s Gift: Musjid. Mile Handicap: Ileen. Hack
Selling Eace: Hnrkaway. Publicans’ Purse : Evidence.
Hurry Scurry: Alice May.
The results of the Kensington Park Eaces
(Vic.), are as follows ; —Handicap Hurdle Eace —Acro-
bat; Handicap Welter Eace —Sea King; Handicap
Galloway Eace—Midnight; Selling Eace —Alice May ;
Handicap Flat Eace—Exile.
A rifle match took place on New Year’s Day
between the Bathurst and Windsor Volunteer Rifle
Corps at Windsor, resulting in a victory for the
Bathurst Corps by five points. The scores were;
Bathurst, 461; Windsor, 456.
The Belvidere and Newtown C.C. met on New
Year’s Day at Newtown, and the former club won by 7
wickets. For the Belvideres J. Eichardson scored 13
and 15, not out, S. Lindeman 14, and Maekay 11; for
the Newtowns, Sheridan scored 14, and Bnllen 12, not
out.
Massie, notwithstanding his flukes, is still a
performer.
The Coonamble races, on New Year’s Day, were
very successful. The results are as follow:—Maiden
Plate: Laycock 1, Patch 2. New Year’s Gift Handicap:
Lavcock 1, Comical Jack 2. Hack Selling Pace : Coachy
1, Wanderer 2. Flying Handicap: Laycock 1, Comical
Jack 2.
The results of the New Year’s Day Eace Meet-
ing of the Orange Jockey Club are as follow: —Ladies’
Purse: Pluto. New Year’s Gift: Lore Not. Prince
of Wales Stakes: Mermaid. Christmas Handicap:
Love Not. Selling Pace: Dozey. Final Flutter:
Rosebud.
It was proposed by some of the Christchurch
cricketers to offer the English professional eleven £2OO
for a three days’ match at Christchurch, but
eventually they decided not to guarantee any terms
at present, but would enquire approximately what sum
would be required.
Inverell played Bingera at cricket. The latter
actually withered before the bowling of Baker and
MTlveen, the eleven in their first innings being put out
for 28, and in their second for 16. The Inverell team
made 39 and 67, Wakely and Lyons bowling very well
for the Bingera men.
The results of the Minmi races, on New Year’s
Day, are as follows: —Maiden Plate, Lucifer; Jockey
Club Handicap, Cremornel; Selling Hack Pace,
Lucifer; Hack Pace and Hurry Scurry, Lancashire
Lass; Pony Pace, Useless; Forced Handicap,
M'Carthy’s Lucifer.
Bennett, a new man, whose style is much ad-
mired, defeated Cook by 51 points in a splendidly-
contested game for £lOO a-side, the cup, and the cham-
pionship. Three and four to one were laid on Cook
during the progress of the game. Bennett won it on
the post by two breaks of 19 and 38.
The Tattersall’s Club races at Grafton took
place on New Year’s Day, with the following results :
Mares’ Produce Stakes : Princess Lome 1. President’s
Cup : Warfare 1. Maiden Plate : Esperance 1. Novel
Handicap: Hanlan 1. Club Handicap: Polestar 1.
Sires’ Produce Stakes : Botheration 1.
It is awkward that the Intercolonial Eegatta
in Melbourne takes place about the same date as
our Anniversary Eegatta, as therefore New South
Wales may not be represented in the great yacht
match. The Victorians would be glad to see the
Magic or the Oithonia unfurl their wings in Hobson’s
Bay.
The Sydney Grammar School defeated easily the
Launceston School at Launceston. The scores were—
Sydney, 127 and 213 ; Launceston, 78 and 51. For
Sydney, Martin scored 40 and 77, Roberts 19 and 46,
Downor 24 each innings, and Thompson 4 and 44. For
Launceston, Clemons scored 20, Pock 17, and Archer 10
and 18.
The Governor and suite are to be present at the
Parramatta races on the 26th instant, and already
enormous preparations are being made for the event.
In fact the stewards are incurring an expense which is
simply terrifying, and it is rumoured that Mr. Hugh
Taylor, the President of the Club, has gone to even
more expense than before.
George Hough, native of Parramatta, and
formerly champion of the N.S.W. prize ring, is still
living. He is upwards of sixty-four years of age, stands
six feet two inches, and weighs 14st. He is hale and
hearty, and is employed by Mr. Andrew Turnbull, of
Emu Plains, “ boulder lifting,” amongst Toby Ryan’s
“ patent indigestible pumpkins.”
Mr. M‘Lean, of St. Leonards Cricket Club, has
brought out a neat card, printed at his own expense,
and distributed to every member. By it at a glance all
the club’s engagements of the season are shown. It
would be well if other clubs would follow the example.
St. Leonards C.C. boasts of putting out the crack
eleven of the colony for 65 runs.
A match was played on New Year’s Day on
Moore Park, between the Alpha and Perseverance C.C.,
which resulted .in an easy victory for the former by 8
runs. The principal feature of the game was the ex-
cellent batting of the brothers Collins and C. Mitchell,
who made 30,13, and 11 for the Alpha club. The scores
were—Alpha, 76; Perseverance, 68.
Charley Bannerman did not distinguish himself
in the field during the Intercolonial, and his batting
did not show anything like his old form; still, we must
assume that he was simply unfortunate, as his average
this season with the Carlton Club proves that he is
still a good batsman, although he cannot be said to be
anything like the player he was two years ago.
The Adelaide (S.A.) Eaces resulted as follows :
Hurdles : Miss Banter 1, Sultan 2, Trump 3. Flying
Handicap: Israelite 1, Souvenir 2, Maid of all Work
3. Steeplechase: Mimalong 1, Abdallah 2, Guinea 3.
New Year’s Gift: Don Carlos 1, Silver Thread 2, Au-
rora 2. Corinthian Eace: Charlie 1, Mistaken 2,
Joker 3. Free Souvenir : Carlos 1, Aurora 2.
At the Adelong Annual Eaces, on New Year’s
Day, Joceline won the Maiden Plate, Eileen, the Mile
Handicap, Musgia, the New Year’s gift, and Evidence
won the Publicans’ Purse. On the 3rd January, De-
serter won the Stewards’ Purse, Feathertop the Prince
of ‘Wales’ Selling Stakes, Davis’ Robin, the Town Plate,
First Love, the Ladies’ Purse, and Josephine, the
Forced handicap.
Much regret in Melbourne at no Sydney yacht
competing in the Victorian Intercolonial Yacht 'Race.
The Maori yacht, Tauiwha, of which great things are
expected, is cutter rigged, and equipped entirely with
a view to racing purposes. Length between perpendi-
culars, 55ft. ; overall, 64ft. ; beam, 12ft. Sin; depth, 9ft.
6in.; draws 10ft. Sin. aft, and 6ft. forward ; she has 6
tons of lead let into her keel, and 4 tons more moulded
inside. Her measurement is 36 tons.
Eowell, the English walker, won the six days’
go-as-you-please tournament for Sir John D’Astley’s
belt and the championship of the world. He did 146
miles in the first 24 hours, and beat the best record for
the six days, covering the long distance of 566 miles
when time was up, having got through his last mile in
9 mins. 4 secs. Littlewood, another Englishman, was
second, and Dobler, an American, third.
Sweetmeat barely beat Wellington for third
place in the Champion Stakes. What an agreeable dis-
appointment Sweetmeat’s starting and getting a place
must have been to the holders of his number in Mr.
Miller’s various consultations. It is reported, how-
ever, that some fortunate speculator went round and
bought up the tickets before it was known that he was
going to start. The same lucky person drew Strathearn
in each of Jones’ sweeps.
The Advance Cricket Club of Morpeth defeated
the Glebe Strathmore C.C. of Sydney on Boxing Day,
by 25 runs; the scores being—A.C.C. 108, G.S.C.C. 83.
All the Advance Club were out for 18 runs in their
second innings; and had time permitted, Strathmore
would assuredly have become victorious. The fine
batting of George Brown was highly commended. The
Strathmore Club were entertained at a dinner in the
•afternoon, the Mayor of Morpeth (Mr. Wisdom) and
several Aldermen being present.
A race for carrier pigeons, owned by members of
the Sydney Homing Pigeon Society, took place last
Saturday, from Douglas Park to Sydney; distance, 45
miles. Twenty-one birds were entered for the contest,
which resulted in a dead heat between IXL, the pro-
perty of Mr. P. C. Freeman, of Newtown, and Swift,
owned by Mr. Wild, of Sussex-street. The former
accomplished the distance in 66i minutes, the latter
70 minutes—Mr. Freeman having to allow Mr. Wild
31 minutes. Messrs. Freeman and Wild agreed to
divide the prize.
Mr. John Conway writes : —“ It is the intention
of Messrs. J. Lillywhite and Alfred Shaw to form a
first-class team of English professional cricketers for
the purpose of making a tour of the Australian
colonies and New Zealand during the cricket season
1881-82. They purpose starting from England in the
autumn in 1881, play four or five matches in the United
States, leaving ’Frisco for New Zealand by the October
mail. Their first match will be played in Auckland in
the end of November, after which they will journey
south and play at Wellington, Chri&tclmrch, and
Dunedin.”
The results of the Y.E.C. New Year’s Day
races are as follow : — Hurdle Eace.—P. G. 1, Zephyr
2. Canezou 3. The Normanby Stakes.—Liberator 1,
Monmouth 2, Welcome Jack 3. The Yarravil'e
Stakes. —Chatterer 1, Camballo 2, Mullatto 3. Mid-
summer Handicap.—Odd Trick 1, Western Princess 2,
Darriwell 3. The Champion Stakes. —Grand Flaneur 1,
Progress 2, Sweetmeat 3. Trevallyu and Wellington
started. This was simply a race between Progress and
Grand Flaneur, resulting in an easy win for the latter
by two lengths. Steeplechase.—Himilaya 1, Simpleton
2. Three-Year-Old Handicap.—Chatterer 1, Sapphire 2,
Latrobe 3.
The difference of style between the Canadian
and the Australian excites much comment in English
sporting circles. Hanlan uses the slide after he gets
behind the rowlocks, thus making a kind of second
stroke; Trickett rows and slides in front of the row-
locks, necessitating a loss of power at the end of the
stroke; Laycock has not yet shown the full extent of
his sliding. However, these are mere theories. The
result of the Hanlan-Trickett race does not confirm
them. Until Hanlan defeats Laycock and Trickett, all
fit and well, we shall be slow to admit the superiority
of the Canadian’s style. If we have to do so, we will be
compelled to confess that Australian rowing has been
perfected upon false principles.
The Newcastle Eegatta on New Year’s Day was
a great success. The events were well contested, and
the following are the principal results : —For working
licensed watermen’s skiffs 22 feet overall, under
canvas —Young Australia, S. Smith. For gentlemen
amateurs of the H.R.C. and junior crews of any Sydney
or other rowing club, four oars with coxswain; in
string-test gigs—H.M.S. Pinafore, Williams, Bros,
Brett, Boss. For amateurs pulling two pair sculls in
light watermen’s skiffs, with coxswain—Lookout, G.
Riddle, T. Dermody. For all boats employed in fish-
ing out of the port of Newcastle, handicapped—Time,
T. Trelevan. For all comers, pulling four pair of
sculls, handicapped—Spy, E. Hughes, J. Hughes, J.
Dempsey, C. Creese.
Queer things are done in England as well as in
Australia. A Mr. Gretton, a brewer, had two horses,
Prestonpans and Fernandez, entered for the Liverpool
Autumn Cup. Fernandez became the favourite with
the public, and the owner set on certain large book-
makers to do nothing else for a week but lay against
him, while, at the same time, the bulk of the ill-gotten
money was being put on Prestonpans. At the appointed
hour Fernandez was scratched, and Prestonpans won
the race. The winner was ridden by the great jockey,
G. Fordham, and was purchased as a two-year-old for
£6,000. We should imagine be has not failed to make
his money out of him.
At a meeting lately of the Victoria Eacing
Club a discussion arose as to the advisability of con-
tinuing the Champion Meeting on New Year’s Day.
Various reasons were offered by the opposing parties,
but eventually the majority decided to continue the
annual event. As a rule, weight-for-age handicaps
bring small fields to the post, and the race is really be-
tween two or three horses, as in the case of Grand
Flaneur and Progress; but it is not desirable to have
nothing but the Cup and Metropolitan Handicap, in
which a good horse may be so heavily weighted that he
may never be able to win a race The weight-for-age
races afford the best chances to the best horses, and
thus the owner has a fair chance of recouping himself.
Further accounts of the Hanlan-Trickett race
prove that it was a desperate struggle for a mile to a
mile and a half. The feature of Hanlan’s rowing is his
graceful style, and but that tbe boat is going at suen a
pace an observer would imagine he was merely having
a pleasure paddle. He is so perfect a master of the art
that he does not when rowing his hardest lose one bit
of his grace, and it is that which caused so many to
think that he simply played with Trickett all the way.
On the contrary, until Trickett’s condition told upon
him, Hanlan had all he knew to keep less than a yard
or two behind the colonial, Hanlan admitted that no
man has ever held him for a mile and a half as did
Trickett, and will not hear of the absurd rumours that
from the first stroke the race was a gift for him.
Trickett offers no excuse for his defeat. He tried his
very best throughout, was most careful of himself
during training, and was perfectly satisfied with him-
self at the starting point. In Hanlan he met a wonder,
and the wonder defeated him.
The thirteenth annual gathering of the Highland
Society took place on New Year’s Day on the Association
Cricket Ground. There was an attendance of over 6000
spectators, and the various sports were most successfully
conducted. The proceeds of the undertaking were to
be devoted to charitable purposes. There were thirty-
five items on the programme, including prizes for
piping, dancing, tossing the caber, throwing the cricket
ball, in addition to the usual athletic sports. A
noticeable feature of the day’s attractions was the
exhibition of dancing by seven young ladies, pupils of
Miss E. King. The Governor and Lady Augustus
Loftus were present for about an hour. The results of
the principal events are as follow : —New Year s Cup,
Sheffield Handicap Flat Eace, 200 yards—P. T. Molloy,
67 yards, Ist; T. E. Thompson, 54 yards, 2nd; W.
Sutherland, 61 yards, 3rd. Time, 15J secs. Walking
Match, for all comers, U mile handicap—G. W. Lindsay,
40 yards, Ist ; H. Turnbull, 120 yards, 2nd ; S. Lewis,
scratch, 3rd. Running High Leap—T. E. Thompson,
5 feet 3 inches, Ist. Basket and Apple Race—H.
Harrison 1, T. E. Thompson 2, C. McLaren 3, A Silver
Cup for the best Dog Jump, a new item in the pro-
gramme of sports, was won by Minnie, 5 feet 5 inches.
The first day’s meeting of the Auckland Eacing
Club on Boxing Day was a great success as far as at-
tendance and racing were concerned, but an unfortunate
accident occurred when the Cup was being run, the
well-known Australian jockey, Nolan, being instantly
killed by falling from Libeller, the horse he was riding.
Nolan was well liked by all sportsmen, who felt deeply
his sudden death. He leaves a wife and two or three
children. He was well known as a jockey in New
Zealand and Australia. He won the champion race on
Pride of the Hills. Nolan served his apprenticeship
with Mr. Filgate (Melbourne), and has been pursuing
his vocation in New Zealand under engagement to
Messrs. Vallance and Mason. Another jockey also,
named Carrington, who rode King Quail, was severely
injured. Tim Whiffler, out of Judge Cheeke’s old
Kingston mare, Parachute, won the Maiden Plate;
Kenilworth, a son of Kelpie, being second, and Wool-
broker third. The Free Handicap went to Paranera,
and the Hurdle Eace was won by the crack Australian
cross-country horse Lone Hand,-but he was disqualified
on account of jostling on the part of the jockey who
rode him, and the prize allotted to the second horse,
Harry Mount, The Agent, who ran third, getting
second honours. The big event of the day (the Auck-
Auckland Cup (300 sovs. with a sweepstakes of 10 sovs.
each added, 2i miles), was placed to the credit of Mr.
H. P. Lane with the aid of Foul Play, who won rather
easily; Maid of Honor, who is by Kelpie out of Fairy
Queen, second; and Ariel third. Paranera wound up
the day’s proceedings by winning the Railway Plate,
beating Tim Whiffler by a neck; a f wo-yearold filly by
Hippocampus —Slander, being third. The second and
third day’s racing was to take place on the Ist and 3rd
January.
Australian Eleven v. Combined International
Team. Match played on M C.C. Ground, Ist, 3rd, and
4th January, 1881. Australian Eleven, first innings:—
A.'Baunermnn, c Eliott, b Evans, 22; W. Murdoch, c
Elliott, b Midwinter, 7; T. U. Groube, Ibw, b Mid-
winter, 6; P. S. M'Donnell, b Midwinter, 0; J. Slight,
st Elliott, b Midwinter, 12; J. M. Blackham, cD.
Gregory, b Midwinter, 5; G. Bonnor, cM’Kay, b Mid-
winter, 55; H. J. Boyle, c Campbell, b Midwinter, 6;
G. Alexander, b Evans, 3; G. Palmer, b Garrett, 10;
F. E. Spofforth, not out, 25 ; sundries, 14; total, 172.
Bowling analysis:—Evans, 200 balls, 31 rims, 31
maidens, 2 wickets; Midwinter, 232 balls, 107 runs, 27
maidens, 7 wickets; Garrett, 29 balls, 20 runs, 2
maidens, 1 wicket. Combined Eleven, first innings;—
Massie, b Spofforth, 12; T. Horan, b Palmer, 9; E.
Evans, b Spofforth, 33; D. Campbell, b Palmer, 7;
Maokay, b Palmer, 0; E. Elliott, c Bonnor b Spofforth,
8: D. Gregory, c Boyle b Spofforth, 3; A. Gregory, c
Boyle, b Spofforth, 0; Midwinter, c and b Spofforth, 10;
Garrett, b Spofforth, 7; Tiudal, not out, 3 ; byes 7; total
94. Bowling analysis: Spofforth, 110 balls, 55runs, 9
n aidens, 7 wickets; Palmer, 108 balls, 36 runs, 10
maidens, 3 'wickets.—Australian Eleven, second in-
nings : Blackham, 1b w, b Evans, 6; Bannerman, cA.
Gregory, b Evans, 11; Murdoch, b Midwinter, 39;
Spofforth, c Massie, b Midwinter, 4; Slight, run out, 4;
M'Donnell, b Midwinter, 37; Bounor, b Midwinter, 13;
Boyle, c Maekay, b Evans, 4; Palmer, 1 b w, b Mid-
winter, 2; Groube, b Evans, 19 ; Alexander, not out, 42;
sundries, 4; total, 185. —Combined Eleven, second in-
nings : Massie, b Spofforth, 8; Horan, b Palmer, 7;
Evans, b Palmer, 11; Campbell, c Alexander, b Spof-
fortb, 6; Elliott, b’Spofforth, 4; Midwinter, c Spofforth,
b Palmer, 0; Tindall, c Alexander, b Spofforth, 1; Mac-
kay, b Palmer, 7 ; A Gregory, b Palmer, 0; D. Gregroy,
run out, 34; Garrett, notout, 1; sundries, 6—total, 85.
Bowling analysis: Spofforth, 121 balls, 59 runs, 14
maidens, 5 wickets; Palmer, 120 balls, 29 runs, 17
maidens, 4 wickets. The Australian Eleven thus win-
ning by 178 runs.


BRIEF MENTION.
Pining—J. D. Fitzgerald.
A moving opera— Car-men.
Samoa news.—Death of the kin^.
It’s the pionios that are doing the mischief.
Unhappy Campbelltown! Going to have some
aldermen.
It is daylight sooner in England than in Ireland.
Another injustic!
The only grants the Government give the poor
people—Emigrants.
Wanted, for the morning papers, a gentleman
who will vary a picnic par.
The leading tidewaiter’s office is not at the
Customs, bnt the Treasury.
M‘Gibbon slipped on a piece of orange-peel last
Tuesday. The Jesuits again!
An advertising doctor in Sydney solicits “ hope-
less ** cases. This is a big qnaok.
Commodore Nntt is under bonds in Jersey city
for keeping a disorderly saloon. Nutty little man !
There’s a nasty reference to “our” early days
in the Herald’s Melbourne letter of lost Saturday.
The Aldermen don’t like Carroll, the Auditor,
•n the same principle that children don’t like powders.
They say the lion and the eagle took off a quarter
•f a million of Australian gold over the great boat
raoe.
A Darlinghurst pastor is great at lawn-tennis,
and can knock a ball through a window with great
dexterity.
An old gentleman observed on Friday that his
faith in Mother Shipton's prophecies was “ sorely
shaken, sir." ,
That is a strange line in Sir "Redmond Barry’s
will—“ All my fortune goes to Mrs. Elizabeth Barrow
and our children. ”
Happilando remarks —“ We never received a
Christmas box on the ear." As if people could be doing
it all the year round.
Proctor taught himself all about the starry
heavens, bnt it was R. S. Smythe that showed him
how to work this planet.
The Port Adelaide News states that Kate
Kelly has been engaged as barmaid by a publican in
Hindley-street, Adelaide.
Shortly after business is commenced on the
•pening of Parliament, a number of Members will more
— to the Refreshment Room.
Constable Henneberry, removed from the pelice
force, comes to Sydney, leaving in Mudgee to mourn
his loss—one terrace of houses.
The beautiful railway suburbs of Sydney are
growing rapidly. The cock-robin castles are showing
up like mushrooms on a sheeptrack.
The Central Australian this week looks as
though it had been machined in n mangle. It is as pale
as the Kiama In—we mean Ghost.
The Hodgkinson Independent prints the
following wire, labelled Sydney :—“Mr - Allan has been
elected Speaker of the Assembly.”
After feeling very uncomfortable for some time
in the dress circle at the Royal, one lady said to the
•ther —“Let us flea." And they flead.
“Too much Christmas” has been almost fatal
to certain newspaper men in this city. The misfortune
is their Christmas isn’t only once a year.
Dr. M‘Gibbon asks, “ What has come over our
friend, Mr. Dailey? Well, we can’t exactly say what,
but we are quite sure not the rev. doctor.
The Melbourne Argus ominously remarks of
Carnet Walch’s pantomime, at the Melbourne Royal,
that it is “free from uproarious humour 1"
A Parramatf a bookmaking fledgling was vic-
timised at the Rand wick Meeting. A forged card on a
winning horse relieved him of a few pounds.
It is now nearly twelve months since Sir ’Enery
has played the gay Lothario. Not that the spark does
not remain, bat the opportunity does not offer.
At a political banquet, at Picton, the Press
were charged admission. None but Wildmen could
do this, and Tom Qirrett was once a pressman 1
Sandy Wallace gave thirty shillings to the
M’Qibbon defence fund. Can this —we ask it with
trepidation—mean “conscience money?" No ! never !
Florence Slater (married to Van Ghele), and
Signora Pasta Moore (linked to Jimmy of that ilk), are
dancing in the pantomime at the Melbourne Royal.
The aristocratic bank clerk of Parramatta who
frowned on the last amateur dramatic affair, is to be
black-balled. Why did the lady withhold her smiles ?
Since the “resignation” of a certain civic
functionary, Compagnoni & Co. find that considerably
less animal food is necessary for the quarterly
banquets.
What kills ns is to see a number of Sydney
gentlemen going to the Melbourne races with a couple
of hundred in their pockets, andtoßandwick with their
lunch money.
There has been a good deal of talk over Mr.
Phil M’CarToil’s paving off the debts due at the time
of his insolvency. What is there in it ? Now, if a big
politician, Ac.
If a man wants to be dangerously assaulted, let
him call any sporting prophet he may meet aside, and
congratulate him upon his selections for the Tatter-
sail’s Club meeting.
At Temora, Irishmen largely predominate, or, as
Peter Campbell says, there are ten Romanists to one
Protestant. There is nothing strange in this. Doesn’t
Temora mean at Rome.
Sam Emery’s “ spec.” at the Novelty Theatre,
Melbourne (he calls it the Duke’s), is a frost. The
people complain that not even Emery powder can
brighten the performance.
The Evening News of Monday contains three
“narrow escapes.” We re-echo a sigh from Alfred
when we state there was not a single murder, suicide,
or “ terrible conflagration.”
“There are several ex-legislators among the un-
employed in Victoria." It is unfortunately, the
other way here. There are several of the un-
employed among our legislators.
“ Yon don’t look well,” said one of his friends
to Arthur Garner while lunching on the racecourse,
“what can have disagreed with yon?” “Champagne
and Oysters," was the grim reply.
A bogus cablegram was sent from Melbourne to
London announcing that several English firms had been
awarded gold medals. The awards were published far
and wide before the trick was exposed.
A waiter in one of the Auckland has,
through the death of his brother, become heir to a snug
little fortune of £5OOO. He now frequents the same
cafe, and doesn’t know the proprietor !
It is a fair illustration of the poor intelligence
which rules in public and municipal affairs in this city
that there should be serious opposition to watering the
streets with the pure element of the ocean.
There’s a Byron broken loose in the Mudgee
Independent. About the “Fading Year” he says—
“ A many [sic], looking back, still feel the pain.” It is
needless to say that the author fs the local hatter.
A ruffian assaulted a married woman at Ben-
bullen, Mudgee road, on Saturday week, using terrible
violence. The Mudgee Independent censures the
Sydney press for suppressing the name of the wretch.
What we want to know politically just now is
the name of that distinguished official in the service
of this country who is said to have got £BOOO from a
Government institution on the mortgage of his own
property.
In the course of some remarks on an artist’s
work, the Herald says, “he has made a speciality of
the representation of birds and animals.” Now, what
sort of a bird is it that is not an animal ? Is a Jackass
an animal ?
Another temporary Judge. It is to be hoped
the appointment will be purely political. We hare the
precedent.
A sad accident occurred off Middle Head on
Sunday last. Whilst pulling up a kellick, the rope
broke, and as the stone sunk on one side, the North
Shore amateur disappeared over the other. The stone
was drowned.
When, on a certain Sunday morning, a reverend
gentleman of Woolloomooloo found that some one had
blown sand into the key-hole of his front door, he
denounced the proceedings from the pulpit as “ another
dastardly papal plot."
“ Pendragon,” of the London Sportsman, says
"no Australian has ever yet mastered the sliding-seat.”
Did " Pen.” ever see Major Wmdeyer on his bounding
steed at a Moore Park review ? If so, let him apologise,
or up he goes for libel.
The Newcastle Morning Herald supports
Parnell, and the Evening Lyre condemns him. It is
a great pity that the Irish difficulty should be thus
aggravated. We are waiting for the opinion of “ the
paper that is always wrong.”
■When a Chinese has a standing inch ad. in a
Northern paper, the editor accords him the prefix of
Mister. When, however, one of the same race is being
sued in the local court by the editor for printing, he is
termed “ a ragged-looking Tartar."
Polling under difficulties. In some parts of the
Bourke electorate, during the late contest, candle-boxes
had to be used in lien of ballot-boxes, and in ote case,
in direct opposition to law and precedent, an old hat
had to do duty as a receptacle for votes.
The Newcastle Morning Struggle has the
following :—" The Melbourne Age.—The above journal
did not publish on Boxing Day, for the purpose of
giving the employes a holiday." This looks as if
some people at Newcastle had been enjoying a holiday.
’Twas after a dinner party at Glebe Point when
a young lady of 74 summers, who had imbibed one glass
each of "fiz” and liqueur, remarked, in rather a vacant
style to the host, that the champagne was excellent,
but the) Keroseno (Maraschino) made her feel ver >,
peculiar
The Tablet says “it is generally believed to
be certain that the Emperor of Russia (four months a
widower) was privately married, on the 31st July, to
the lady who has long occupied the upper storey of the
Imperial palace." What a sly way the Tablet has of
putting it!
That giddy girl “ Gipsy ” says, in Friday’s
Evening Maze, that she lately assisted at a performance
of MoWre’s “Le Medicus (sic) Malgre Sui." We never
heard of the name pf this play before, and will bet that
gashing thing a pair of gloves that, if it exists, Moliere
never wrote it.
The London Standard, remarking on the Kelly
exploits, says that “in a country like Australia and ‘ a
society so constituted’ it would be sangnine to expect
that bushranging would be exterminated for some years
to come." Those English journalists will sound the
cry of separation.
Marriage announcement, Herald, 30th Decem-
ber Shilling—Moore." The happy bridegroom is
to be congratulated on his acquisition of wealth by
having made one Moore (more) Shilling, and we hope
he may live long enough to aspire to a crown, by having
four shillings Mo(o)re.
The appointment of Mr. Finch to the Under-
Secretaryship for Lands was the occasion of a slight
disagreement in the Cabinet, and it might have led to
a disruption had not one or two of the Ministers
looked 11 pon it as a card played by the great Pandjandi i um
for the introduction of new blood.
Now, isn’t this strange P Twenty-five odd
earrings, 10 gloves, 35 different lengths of ruffling,
106 hair-pins, 45 artificial flowers, are awaiting identifi-
cation by their fair owners at the office of the Young
Muffin Munchers Association, and yet not one single
article has been claimed up to the time of our going to
press.
The fearful effects of drink were well expressed
to his flock by a parish priest the other day. “ What is
it, my boys, that degrades ye to the level of the bastes
of the field P Oi tell ye it’s dhrink What is it that
deprives you of your nerve ? The dhrink. What is it
that makes ye shoot at your landlord, and miss him p
It’s the dhrink." Several hereupon took the pledge.
It is stated that the Wesleyan Missionary
Society, as represented by the Rev Mr. Baker, collects
upwards of £30,000 a year from the natives of Tonga.
It would be interesting to know how this money is
spent, not only to the outside world, but to the natives,
as they are now getting so civilised us actually to take
an interest in £ s. d.
Last Friday, the Herald announced that, in
consequence of the scarcity of water, the supply had
been cut off from the various private bathing establish-
ments of the city. The same morning a tramp, who had
evidently been out all night, was seen washing his
bleary eyes in the cup of a Hyde-Park drinking fountain.
And this is Sydney, in the latter end of the year 1880.
Living alone with one’s overseers and laborers
on an island in Fiji has its drawbacks as well as its
advantages. If a laborer kills an overseer, it is im-
possible to hold an inquest, owing to being unable to
get a jury, and it appears that the only thing to be done
is not to have any inquiry. But then, who in the
world could care about a European overseer living in
Fiji.
Thompson’s Zulu War is knocking spots out of
the Newcastle people. Some go to see the pictures,
others to get a chance of the gifts, but the majority to
feast their eyes on the lecturer. Having given away all
the furniture in the coally city, we daily expect an
announcement from the lovely groom that he will
present the audience with a coal-mine and a few dead
heads.
Fancy this fact in the light of the noonday of
freedom :—“ A deputation of 100 landlords, owners
of two-thirds of Ireland, waited on the Lord Lieuten-
ant, &c.” A drawing-room in a castle holding the
owners of well nigh an entire kingdom! One day’s
sail from Dublin Castle, and you set foot on a soil
where there are six million landowners. La belle
France!
The following amusing telegraphic jumble ap-
pears in the Gtmpie Miner :—“ The will of the late Sir
Redmond Barry has been proved under £lO,OOO. He
bequeaths to Mrs. Louisa Barrow Lyster the sum of
£3300. He further bequeaths a legacy to Georgina
Hudson." There’s a billet yearning for the Sub-Ed. of
the G. M. in Sydney. Apply Barrack-street—bottle
entrance.
A N.Z. paper says:—“ The wonderful pianist,
Ketten, is now playing to crowded houses in the Garri-
son Hall, Dunedin. The performances are simply
marvellous, and though unassisted by vocal or other
instrumental talent, no one ever complains that the
entertainment is at all monotonous." Perhaps not the
playing; but these sort of pars, are Ketten decidedly
monotonous.
One good reason for the mating of Father
Leonard a Dean, the Archbishop said, was because he
had given the church many a Dean-er. His Domina-
tion as Dean will doubtless cause the rev. gentleman
to be more in favor of Dean-ominational teaching than
ever We stop here, not because we are breathed, but
simply because we hear the ringing and the jingling of
the lunch bell.
One of the religious prints of this city makes
much of the fact that of the 700 ministers of the gospel
in Victoria not one had been arrested during the past
year. Is this a strange fact, or is it strange that it is
a fact ? Did our religious contemporary, the Presby-
terian, expect something to the contrary ? It needn’t
be disheartened. Not every delinquent is run in. What
would the religious papers do ?
The Distress has a note running thus: —
“ That was a very happy thought of his Grace the
Archbishop to confer the title of Dean on the Rev.
T. S. Leonard. The great, almost unparalleled exer-
tions of Father Leonard undoubtedly call for some
public recognition," &c., Ac. Now. didn't the Dean
write this himself ? Could Father Rubie have seen it.
Shoorley they look down the proofs as of old.
E. E. Jones’ .£lOOO sweep on the Randwick
races went to Parramatta in a very funny way. Eight
railway employes there contributed half-a-crown each,
and bought a ticket, which turned out to hold the
winning horse. The “ club" in the possession of this
boundless wealth suddenly acquired gentlemanly tastes,
eschewed their customary “tangle,” and celebrated the
unexpected win with copious libations of champagne.
Says the Barwon Argus : —“ We are credibly
informed that a police magistrate has been appointed
to Brewarrina, and that the mantle has fallen upon Mr.
Menkinson." It then adds: —“ We hope to give fuller
information in our next." Well, we shall have sleep-
less nights till we get the next paper, because there is
not in the Sydney directory a single individual of the
name of Mr. Menkinson. Can Menkinson be another
name for Melville P
This is the brief story of our fall: —“ Another
half-a-mile and the race was practically over, for
Hanlan’s lead was in no possible danger, and Trickett
was laboring hard. The expression of determination
on his sallow face had been replaced by a look of pain
and despair. All could see that Trickett, the Champion
of the World, was a beaten man I" Who could describe
Trickett’s feelings at this moment ? Was he thinking
of his “true” friends in Sydney?
So it appears that John Davies has enemies in
London, and in high circles, too. The title was given
to “ William Davies, Esqand the correction to
“ John Davies. Esq ” had to appear in another issue of
the London Gazette. Perhaps Mr. William Davies, of
Goulburn, will have it that he has been done out of a
title. The Goulburn gentleman did do good service at
the International, though, of course, we wouldn’t like
it to be inferred that he “ assisted ” the British
exhibitors.
That German physician and his galvanism
again 1 He has a great weakness for the fair sex. He
was visited very recently by two ladies—one a patient.
Not content with half killing the latter, he must needs
make a dab at her friend with the galvanic instruments,
and fix her unawares by the neck. Ladies who appre-
ciate these little jokes can be satisfied by paying the
sum of one guinea, or be sent quite out of their senses
for sixteen, after which, they can be put right again
for two guineas elsewhere. Beware !
The new year’s here.
The old one’s done;
It is it’s clear,
Eighteen eighty-one.
Therefore we can now afford
To call old mother S. a fraud.
• ***»«
Will the author of this anonymous poem (shrewdly
suspected by ns to be synonymous with a certain
Spencerian dramatist) kindly call with a van and take
away the rest of it ?
It was observable at the various holiday resorts
on New Year’s Day that where the time-honored and,
we believe, much-played game of kiss-in-the-ring was
being played there was a certain lack of trustfulness
displayed. Instead of dropping the handkerchief, the
player touched the player of the opposite sex with it,
and carefully returned the article to his or her pocket.
This reminds us of the Hide Park preacher, P.C.,
who, after passing his hat round unsuccessfully, re-
marked with gratitude, “ Well, I am thankful to get my
hat back,”
2240 country journals last week commenced a
leader as follows: —“The year 1880 is now rapidly
drawing to a close, and ere another issue of this
journal issues from the press we shall have entered on
1881." Then immediately under the editorial is—
separated by an em rule —a notice about “reminding
our subscribers ’’ —and this when the taste of the goose
is hardly out of a man’s month. Now we don’t do this.
We inaugurated the new year by giving a friend some-
thing—and he has been happy ever since. (N.B.— Vide
last cartoon.)
It is on the tapis, says the Tamworth News
to present Mr. Hanlev Bennett with a testimonial in
recognition of the services he has conferred upon
Liverpool Plains. The chief mourners in the affair met
on the 4th inst. at Mr Bryant’s Exchange Hotel, but
at present it has not transpired what form the presen-
tation will take. So far as we are concerned, we
recommend an English grammar and a ton of oatmeal.
The latter will sustain him during the generations he
will study the former before again adorning the hall of
our legislators.
According to the Northern Miner, the
rising generation on Charters Towers is not being
brought up with that reverence for things sacred so
desirable. Some time ago, a teacher in the State
school there, who had lost a good deal of his hair
through severe study or home causes, gave his scholars
a narration of the fate of the children who mocked the
prophet. They were all duly impressed, save one
youngster, who remarked emphatically, “ I don’t
believe it. Your’e a bald-headed old buffer yourself.
Get up ! Now trot out your bears.”
A brevity from the Lyre ; —“ ‘ Martindale,’ of
the Town and Country, had a private match with a
brown snake, five feet in length, on the Zigzag on Sun-
day last. The sporting scribe gave the straight tip,
and the snake was euchred.” Well, we are glad—liking
to encourage the young man—to hear that he gave the
“straight tip” to a brown snake, and that it was
“ euchred.” This is, however, only a variation of his
cleverness. For when he gives the sporting public the
straight tip, they are almost invariably euchred also.
This hippie scribe is too clever to belong altogether to
one paper.
A leading Government official at Parramatta, in
a paroxysm of enthusiasm at the result of the recent
election in that township, upon the declaration of the
poll did a pas de seulon the kerbstone, “ skied” his hat,
shouted “hurrah!”—and champagne for his official
subordinates, whilst his family made unprovoked offen-
sive demonstrations at the wife and daughters of the
losing candidates. This was the charge. Result :
Official inquiry, and removal of enthusiastic Civil
servant, to fresh fields, where his political proclivities
can find full play without the risk of bringing upon his
devoted head the vengeance of his department.
The Melbourne humourist remarks :—“ In the
first issue of a Sydney sporting journal the self-
laudatory editorial to its readers begins thus :— ‘ It is
with feelings of mingled pride and pleasure that we re-
cord the encouraging fact of our having achieved suc-
cess at the outset of our career.’ Considering that
these words must have been written, set-up, and
printed before a single copy of this paper could
have been given to the public, this editor must
be a cheerful and hopeful kind of a man. Parody-
ing the well-known saying, he might well exclaim, ‘ ’Tis
not in mortals to command success, but we’ll do better,
we’ll anticipate it.’ ”
The Religious Rubie saith : —“ A two-headed
cat was owned in Washington, N.J. The heads were
distinct and well formed—one jet black, the other the
colour of the pure Maltese. The body was divided
in colours exactly like the heads. It had only four
legs and one tail, over which each head seemed to have
to have controal (sic) Both heads eat at
the same time, but one slept while the other was wide
awrde " (sic). This is what comes of making Father
Leonard a dean! Of course he’s been keeping up
Christmas and doing the Dean as well. And, by the
way, ought not this cat's tale to have gone under the
head of pnrrs-sonal items ?
J. H. B. Spearing, of the Palace Hotel, Echuoa,
is the baan ideal of a boniface. Formerly a civic autho-
rity, he has now taken upon himself the role of
licensed victualler. He is an expert at concocting
drinks, tells a good yarn, and is ingenious, as witness
the following : —J. H. B. S. has fixed up a thermometer
facing the north. On a moderately warm day the shade
reading will be HO degrees. A passer-by notices the
great heat, and exclaims, “ Merciful heavens, so hot
already ?” He rushes in, and calls for the longest iced
drink in the longest glass that the longest man in the
house can stagger with. S. smiles quietly, and says
that the weather-glass “ fetches ” them.
At the races Dan O’Connor was just about in
his glory. He happened to stop for a moment in front
of the Governor’s box, when his Excellency came out
and spoke to him. As they were telling one another
how many half-crown sweeps each had lost, 10, and
behold! John Hourigan catches sight of the conference,
and begins to stump up with the object, no doubt, of
chipping in. Diplomatic Gus., however, scenting the
danger, bade Dan a hurried adieu, and skipped back
into his box. At this moment the old Houri. arrived
only to be discomfited. But on seeing his face fall 3S
degrees Fahrenheit, Dan patted him on the back and
took him away for a glass of Bass. On this John’s face
brightened. It was still something to hob-nob with
one of the pals of vice-royalty.
It’s almost time Eubie’s “ Rambler” was “off
it.” He, referring to Father Leonard’s appointment,
says:—“ I wish Dean Leonard many happy years to
enjoy his merited honour, and to spend himself yet more
in the service of his adopted country." Well, the
worthy Dean, it is acknowledged, has expended his
money, and now they seem to want him to spend him-
self. But, before he can do this, it will be necessary to
find out what the dear old Dean will fetch. If they’ll
send us a litho. in time, we will march around and give
him a bid, just to set the thing going. “ Now, then,
gentlemen,” we think we can hear Dr. Marigold—or
Mr. Pritchard —cry : “ what shall we say for this brand
new Dean ? Now, then, send him along. Twopence ?
who said twopence?"—and so on. One can even get
some fun out of a Dean, if one’s bold enough
fancy!
Following from the clever man of the Austral-
asian :—“ It is certainly a little hard upon us here in
Victoria, but we may survive. The leading Sydney
journal had this complimentary advertisement in its
columns two days before Christmas: ‘ A Sober Assistant
Wanted. No Victorian need apply. Good salary.’ It
is just as well that we should occasionally see ourselves
as others see us. The mirror in this case displays ns
as a herd of drivelling drunkards, unfit for such a
splendid opening in life as assistant, with a good salary,
to Mr. Zions, a German gentleman, with a Palestine
flavour about his name. The saving clause was perhaps
unnecessary. Not many Victorians, although ‘ Berry’-
ed alive in Sydney, would be likely to break their necks
in pursuit of a niche in this temple of Zions. Is Mr.
Zions the gentleman whose ‘ pants well shrunk seven
and six ’ brought him such prosperity that he stood in
the Liberal interest in New South Wales at the late
elections and forfeited his £4O deposit ? ’’
One day last week some relations visited a
gentleman residing out Glebe Point way, and one of
them, remarking how long the grass on the lawn was,
proposed to burn it. So they set fire to the grass, and
away it blazed. A little while after, one of them heard
an ominous tolling. “Why, what’s that ?” asked one,
gazing blankly at the rest. A silence only broken by
the clanger-rang-clang of the bell. Then they under-
stood it. It was the fire-bell. On this the blaze was
quickly beaten out, and all strolled up to the top of the
road to await the issue of events. It wasn’t long
coming. Soon there was a clatter and a roar, and the
Insurance Brigade engine, followed by a choice con-
tingent of the Glebe unsoaped, thundered past. Later
on it got thicker, for the arriving engines met those
that were returning, and much blocking and not a little
chaff was the result. However, the firemen, having
relieved their feelings by spanking two boys who had
given the alarm, departed in dudgeon, while the
gentleman who had burnt his grass went to bed, and
dreamed all night that he had swallowed afire-engine.
In noticing Mr. Lewis Scott’s “ address ” last
week we are reminded that we omitted to allude to one
couplet which is, perhaps, the gem of the composition.
It runs —
“ Be friendly, and help our new-born cause ;
Give money, laughter—and don’t forget applause.”
The reader will observe that this couplet is quite a
novelty in heroics, since it possesses nine syllables in
the first line and eleven in the second. Let us take it
for a text for a few verses which we will inscribe to the
distinguished author: —
O answer, thou dread bard, of what avail
To chaunt a lay that makes Parnassus quail.
Draws from the Muse’s eyes the scalding tears.
And with its discord splits the list’ners’ ears ?
Why strike the lyre, when thou, with courage brave.
Can weed a garden, or can dig a grave ?
Why pro titute thy genius with dull verse,
When all admit that thou couldst drive a hearse ?
The world entreats thee—howl no more, sweet Scott,
Or, if thou must sing—not such awful rot!
A good story comes from Parramatta. A well-
known and highly respected clergyman there has
latterly been most violent in his denunciations of
horse-racing, which, he affirms, is “ beginning to take
root in that town,” and “ will inevitably tend to the
utter damnation of the rising generation.” On last
race day this rev. gentleman was seen, book in hand (a
volume of Paley’s Moral Philosophy), apparently ab-
sorbed in study, in the Park —whence a good view of
the racing can be obtained. Just after the first event
started the Rev. Mr. was observed to shoot a sly
glance at the passing field, and guiltily withdraw it.
A second time the horses started, and then the respected
divine looked again; next hastily rose from his seat,
watched the race till the finish, and then gave a sigh of
intense satisfaction, which spoke more eloquently than
words of the sporting element within him. One more
event did he witness, when, probably becoming aware
that there was a lack of consistency between his
precept and his practice, he departed from the scene
with an air of reluctance that was unmistakable. Now
we want to know whether or not this is the rev. gentle-
man who telegraphed four times for the correct tip for
Tattersall’s Cup.
Ante-Mortem Obituaries.
No. 4.-NDY LYNCH, ESQ., M.P.
JtTST as the country is looking to the new Parlia-
ment for important measures, long promised but
long delayed, there comes the news that Andrew
Lynch is defunct. Christmas has been fatal—
politically fatal—to the man from Carcoar; the man
in whom the people placed all their hopes, and by
whom they expected to work all their oracles,
including the Blayney bridge. The simple words
that came along the wires carried their own dread
meaning The old buffer’s gone!” Gastro-
nomically and politically, this was a great collapse.
Even Sir ’Enry wept. He said he never knew a
more accommodating man, especially before an
election, or —an appointment. In the words of the
chief, “He was always there when wanted.” We
suppose he’s there now; so that’s some consolation.
There were some splendid points about the deceased
legislator. He had no political principle. Conser-
vative to-day, he was “dimykrat” to-morrow;
squatter and free-selector at the one time, but a
regular stickler, nevertheless, for the Blayney
Bridge, which, he said, was “ afore anny other
quistion in the counthry.”
RIP.
THE LATE ANTHREW LYNCH, ESQ., M.P.


The Referee.
Tattersall’s Club Meeting.
THE CUP DAY,
A tropical sun blazing in an Italian sky, and
now and anon a few good old Port Jackson puffs
raising a considerable amount of Australian dust.
From an early hour the streets presented a lively
aspect, chiefly by reason of the action of those
individuals who had gone out for their “ morning
medicine’ ’ piling on a few extra rums in honor of
the festive season, and staggering along the
pavements singing Kelly verses to “ Pinafore”
music. Orange peel being plentiful on the side
walks, it was amusing to the superficial observer,
and instructive to the students of physical gravi-
tation, to observe’ elderly gentlemen, on fishing-
parties intent, sliding periodically into the kennel.
THE SIGHT AT TATTEBSALL’S.
The front of Tattersall’s shortly before noon was
a sight, which for human curiosities beats hollow
the Egyptian Hall, and De Lacy Evans to
boot. To observe tbe “Ring” in all its
startling apparel, with its astounding variety of
nasal organ, with its wonderful collection of hats
and boots, was a spectacle quite awful in its im-
pressiveness. And to hear the voices—in every
inflexion, from the shrill falsetto to the growling
bass —pattering glibly forth a thousand different
expletives—was in itself far more entertaining
than the most successful efforts of the Musical
Union. The effect of the brilliant gathering of
the bookish clan had a very sad effect upon the
Coffee Tavern waitresses next door; and while
those white-capped charmers were ogling different
sporting representatives of the Seven Tribes from
the windows many a foaming Eechabite tore
savagely at hia bread and lapped up his Worcester
while his “ steak and tomato sauce” was freezing
in the passage. Amongst the many loungers
could be seen the well-known form of George
Hill, whose brawny throat was guiltless as usual of
the paper collar of civilization. Chatting with
George is none other than Larry Foley—Larry of
the steely eye and cast iron biceps. They converse
earnestly in low tones, possibly respecting the
various beauties of the last-discovered Assyrian
relics, or upon the abstract theology embodied in the
doctrines of Confucius. Bill Gannon, leaning—
like the sailor in Gilbert’s ballad —“ airily against
a post,” and looking the exact counterpart, bar the
cords and tops of one of John Tenniel’s sketches
of John Bull, is admiring the polish on his boots
and talking stock with a Riverina squatter
at the same time. Near him, just booking
a wager, is a tall figure in a silk coat and
light pants. This is one of the most popular
of Sydney metallicians —familiarly known
by a wager-taking public as “ Eye-glass White.”
Standing in the doorway, his mind troubled with
the subject of sandwiches, is Mr. Adams, the land-
lord of Tatt’s. Mr. Adams is popular, and hia
sandwiches are proverbial: the more you get of
either the more you want. It has been rumoured
that George has lately, at enormous expense,
imported from America a machine by means of
which he can cut up an ordinary-sized ham into
slices sufficient to cover the whole area of Moore
Park, and that, like the old Yauxhall Gardena
people, he has in his employ grave pharmaceutists
who are daily engaged in severe experiments in
order to satisfactorily demonstrate how much
Botany water a bowl of colonial claret cup will
positively stand. With his hands in his pockets,
thoughtfully chewing the end of a pencil, is the
familiar figure of the well-known sporting tailor.
He is attired in grey tweed of a horsey cut, and
wears enough puggaree round his hat to make a
wedding quilt for a Lambton miner. Hailing a
passing cab is Billy Freeman, the distinguished
decorator of the great “ Leviathan.” Billy is a
bit excited to-day, not so much on account of an
extra glass or two of “ three star ” as because he
has a dark horse of his called Sunlight, who is, he
hopes, going to “ show ’em the way” in the race
for the Cup. And there are many other well-
known faces of professionals and amateurs, all of
whom gather under the flag of the mystic “ talent.”
THE START FOB RANDWICK.
At tweve o’clock they melt away—some in cabs,
some in buggies, some in ’buses, others by that
licensed practical joke, “the tram.” The race-
course reached, all is life and gaiety. A goodly
muster already in the enclosure, and a crowd of
the horny-handed swarming over the course.
There is mud critical inspection of steeplechasers
in the paddock, much dragging of bits, whispering
to jockeys, and feeling of horses’ sinews. Mr.
Hilly, Ted Jones’"private secretary, is the centre
of half a score of boys, though whether he is
imparting instruction or receiving various straight
griffins, is impossible to be determined. Clang,
clang, clang-ee-rang! and out they file. Then
comes a hoarse roar from the books. “ Three to
one yon don’t name it.” “I’ll lay Bnllocky.”
“ I lay the Hurdle and the Cup.” “ Do yon want
to back one?” “Two to one, the Hatter.”
“ Four to one, bar two,” etc. A short interval,
and then a partial silence. “ They’re off.” “ No.”
Horses all mixed up together, excepting Vril, who
is about half a mile up the course, and still
going like steam. At last—but not until Mr
Rouse (who reminded one of a signalman, with his
red flag) had been treated to a volley of groans
by some outcasts near the fence —they are off in
real earnest.
THE COURSE, THE DRESSES, &C.
Then jnst as the thing becomes exciting, the
band (strikes up the National Anthem, in dashes
the Governor, and simultaneously with their
Excellencies’ arrival, a couple of jockeys get
violently thrown, and are brought back on
stretchers. The stand by this time presents a
really brilliant appearance, and there are some
handsome dresses and still more handsome faces.
Lady Loftus looks exceedingly well. Her Lady-
ship’s dress is of diaphanous, cream-coloured
cashmere, the skirt elaborately trimmed with ecru
lace. Lovely summery bonnet to match. The
trimmings of the dress were bands of black and
yellow satin, with bows of the same. Her lady-
ship wore heel-less shoes (rather large ones), made
so as to show a considerable black web-silk stock-
ing. Lady Loftus appeared in excellent spirits,
and during the day (wait till the Standard comes
out with its leader) was actually occupied in get-
ting up amongst her friends a series of guinea
sweeps. Old Gussy held himself aloof from these
frivolities, _ and conversed with M.L C.s about
‘ the political importance of the approaching ses-
sion,” and the difficulty of obtaining Vichy water
at a moderate price. Two young ladies in lace
costumes attracted a good deal of notice, and
were successful in engaging all Mr. Bloxsome’s
spare time in opening their parasols and picking
up their gloves. It pleased him. A young
lady came early upon the scene who was the
source of some amusement. She was dark and
petite, and her costume was certainly remarkable.
The skirt was of pink bombazine, extensively
oovffe, and made so short that her rather large
buttoned boots (three buttons missing) were ren-
dered exceedingly prominent. Her jacket was of
cream-coloured silk, made Langtry Jersey fashion,
and extra long. Around her waist she wore a
most elaborate steel and gold chatelaine belt, and
about her neck a gilt bead necklace fully six inches
deep. This young lady and her cavalier paced up
and down the lawn during the whole of the meet-
ing, and it is reckoned tbe distance they covered
must have been over fifteen miles. Perhaps the
most charming figure in the pavilion, however,
was a clever young actress, who is dividing with
Mr. Fred. Marshall the applause nightly bestowed
upon the masterly representation of Quilp now
running at the Gaiety. Mias Melrose was
charmingly attired in a fawn-colored silk costume
trimmed with heliotrope satin and cords of
heliotrope and black. Fawn-colored hat with
heliotrope flowers and Cinderella shoes and red
embroidered stockings. Miss Melrose’s was
accompanied by the wife of the genial lessee
of the Gaiety who wore a black grenadine
trimmed with magnificent Maltese lace, and
further adorned with bows of old gold car-
dinal. This lady’s ornaments were diamonds
which glittered and sparkled in a most bewildering
fashion. A very prepossessing little lady,
escorted by her husband, wore a black satin
walking costume trimmed with forget-me-not
flowers and further embellished with lace and the
inevitable cords. A quilted black satin Gainsboro’
hat with a blue feather completed an exceedingly
effective costume. Mr. John Young was present,
betting new hats and things with that walking
repository of municipal law—George Merriman.
As regards the racing, the effect of it was to make
the “ books” smile and the public swear. After
Woolstone’s victory in the Gup, experienced
hackers walked into the refreshment rooms and
took semi-circular bites out of their tumblers in
their rage and disgust. One gentleman drank a
whole bottle of Krug at a draught, after which
he, insanely enough, sat upon his hat, and spoiled
it. The return home was the usual scene of
scuffle at the tram, over-charging of cab-men, and
anathematising of ’bus drivers, now so pleasantly
familiar to the regular attendant at race
meetings ; hut, taking one thing with another,
the New Year’s reunion was a success. There
was nothing in the commisariat department that
needs special notice except, perhaps, that the
extreme listlessness of some of the female beer-
retailers bordered at times upon the languid. And
the objection to open a bottle of ginger-beer was
universal. We append technical results ;
The Hurdle Race, a handicap of 75 sovs. for winner ;
a sweepstake of 3 sovs. each for starters to go to
second horse; two miles and a half.
Mr. T. Shore’s Bnllocky, aged, 9st. Gibs., (Champ-
ley) 1
H. Herbert’s Radical, aged, lOst. 21bs., (Chifney) 2
W. Forrester’s Lady Ripon, 5 yrs., lOst. 71bs.
(Harding) 3
E. De Mestre’s'Benalla, 6 yrs., lOst. 21bs.
H. C. White’s The Hatter, 6yrs., 9st. lOlbs.
Dr. Cortis’ Yril, syrs., 9st. 81bs.
Mr. F. Weston’s Banker, aged, 9st.
J. L. West’s Clyde, 4 yrs., Bst. 121bs.
C. Lawrence’s Basilisk, aged, Bst. 121bs.
S. Harding’s Councillor, 6yrs., Bst. lOlbs.
J. Cain’s Mariner, aged, Bst. lOlbs.
H. P. Airey’s Recruit, aged, Bst. 71bs.
3to I The Hatter, 4to 1 bar one. A splendid race.
Vril baulked at first hurdle. The whole kept well
together until the last turn, when The Hatter made his
effort, but found the pace too much for him. A splendid
race down the straight, Bnllocky just beating Radical.
Time, 5 min. 14 sec.
The Mai den Plate of 5 sovs. each for starters; 100 sovs.
added ; for all maiden horses at the time of
entrance; second horse, 10 sovs. from the prize ;
one mile and a quarter.
Mr. J. A. Dallas’ Marmora, 2 yrs., Gst. lllbs. ;
penalty, Tibs. (Nicholson) 1
H. J. Adams’ Whirlwind, 2 yrs., Gst. 11b.
(Elwell) 2
Hon. Jas. White’s Enta, 2yrs., Gst. lib. (Raynor) ... 3
Mr. E. De Mestre’s Guinea, 3 yrs., Bst. 21bs.
W. A. Long’s Hildebrand, 3 yrs., Bst. 21bs.
H. Herbert’s Carmen, 3 yrs., 7st. 131bs.
J. Cook’s Windsor Belle, 3yrs., 7st. 131bs.
C. J. Roberts’ Tbe Exeter, 2 yrs., Gst. 41bs.
E. Lees’ Sbipka, 2 yrs., Gst, 11b,
E. De Mestre’s A.E.1., 2 yrs., Gst. 11b.
6to 4 on Marmora, 2to 1 bar one. Several false
starts, the “ vowels” being troublesome, though left
behind at the start, Etna led round, but coming into
the straight, Marmora had it all his own way. Time,
2 min. 16 sec.
Tattersall’s Club Cup of 500 sovs. in specie, with
handicap sweepstake of 10 sovs, each for starters ;
second horse, 50 sovs., and third horse 20 soys, from
the prize ; two miles.
Mr. W. Kite’s.Woolstone, aged, Gst. lOlbs. (Ems-
worth ... 1
Ashworth’s Strathearn, Gyrs., 7st. (Williamson) 2
J. Mayo’s Black Swan, 6 yrs., 7st. lOlbs. (Connor) 3
Hon. J. White’s The Pontiff, 4 yrs., Bst.
Mr. J, Mayo’s Secnndns, 5 yrs., Bst.
D. White’s Maori, Gyrs., 7st. 121hs.
J. Burton’s Hesperian, 4 yrs., 7st. 121bs.
R. J. Nowlan’s Sunlight, 5 yss., 7st. 21bs.
R. Jurd’s Gleam. 4yrs., Gst. 21bs.
E. De Mestre’s Chesterfield, 4 yrs., Gst. 21bs.
J. Dargin’s Milbrodale, 5 yrs., ost. 71bs.
G. Donnelly’s Rosinante, 5 yrs., sst. 71bs.
2to 1 Gleam, 3to 1 Milbrodale, 4to 1 Hesperian and
Strathearn, 5 to 1 Secnndus, 20 to 1 Woolstone.
A good start was effected. Chesterfield taking the
lead. In the straight, all together and the favorites
holding hard. At the back of the course tbe paoe
improved, and round the turn Woolstone forged ahead.
Coming into the straight Strathearn came up and
seemed to have the race in hand, but Woolstone came
again and a gallant race ensued, Strathearn subsiding
opposite the Leger Stand, leaving Woolstone a winner
by a length, with Black Swan and the lazy Secundus
close on Strathearn’s quarters. Time, 3min. 37 2-10th
secs.
The Novel Selling Race of 100 soys., weight for
age. One mile and a quarter.
Mr. S. Harding’s Childers, 3 yrs., Gst. 21bs. (Reid) ... 1
J. Mayo’s Mecrame, 3 yrs., Gst. Gibs. (Nerrika) ... 2
H. C. Dangar’s Courtenay, 4 yrs. 7st. (Raynor) ... 3
W. Forrester’s North Star, 6 yrs. 7st 31bs.
R. Wam’s Blackbird, 6 yrs., 7st.
T. Lamond’s All Fours, 5 yrs, 7st.
J. Cook’s Windsor Belle, 3yrs., Gst. 131bs.
J. Dargin’s Bandalbion, 3yrs., Gst. 21bs.
J. A. Dallas’s Dictator, 3 yrs., Gst. 21bs.
6 to 4 North Star, 3 to 1 Courtenay, 5 to 1 Childers.
A good start, Blackbird and Courtenay leading. Chil-
ders led round the turn, followed by Macramo and
Courtenay, who! was gaining ,npon his leaders. The
latter was a good third. Time, 2min 15sec.
Tattersall’l Club Mare’s Produce Stakes, a
sweepstake of 7 sovs. each for starters with 150
sovs. added for two year olds; colts, Bst. 71bs.;
fillies, Bst. 41bs. Half-a-mile.
Mr. T. Chirnside’sSpinningdale, Bst. 31hs.(Connor)... 1
J. A. Dallas’s Marmora, Bst. 71bs. (Stone) ... 2
H. C. White’s Marguerite, Bst. 41bs. (Threadgate) 3
J. C. Kyrie’s Euromedlia, Bst. 71bs.
E. M'Carty’s Miss Queensland, Bst. 41b.
5 to 2on Spinningdale, 3tol on Marmora. A splen-
did start, Miss Queensland leading. Marmora led into
the straight, but Spinningdale came when she was
wanted, and won comfortably. Time, 57 2-10th secs.
The New Year’s Gift, a handicap of 125 sovs.
Second horse 20 sovs. from the prize. One mile
and three furlongs.
Mr, W. E. Boyd’s Braidwood, syrs., Bst 1
J. Lloyd’s Eros, 5 yrs., sst. 121bs 2
M. Lyon’s Valeria, aged, Gst. 21bs. 3
F. Wentworth’s Rapid Bay, aged, Bst. 121bs.
J. Mayo’s Secundus, 5 yrs, Bst 71b.
E. De Mestre’s Chesterfield, 4 yrs., Bst.
T. M’Fadden’s Tattoo, 6 yrs., 7st Tibs.
B. Richard’s Kamilaroi, 3 yrs., 7st. 51bs.
R. Jurd’s Gleam, 4 yrs., 7st. 21bs.
W. Forrester’s The Dean, 6 yrs., 7st.
G. Donnelly’s Rosinante, 5 yrs., Gat. 101 b.
R. Jurd’s Rosebud, Gyrs., Gst. 71b.
R. Rouse’s Retrospect, 4 yrs, Gst 4lbs.
Mr. H. Herbert’s Carmen, 3yrs., sst. 121bs.
J. Eudd’s The Knave, 4 yrs., sst. 71bs.
2 to 1 Eapid Bay, 3 to 1 Braidwood, 4 to 1 bar two.
After some trouble a good start was obtained. Gleam
taking up the running. The order was kept till in the
straight when Kamilaroi, who had been running well,
came to the front. A great rush was made, and
Kamilaroi fell back, Braidwood coming to the front at
the distance post, with the hurdle racer and Valetta
close upon him, though there was not enough left in
either of them to displace the winner, who, however,
was omcpletely pumped out. Time, 2min. 27 6-10th sen.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Strathearn second again !
Grand Flaneur has never been beaten.
Victoria v. New South Wales —Grounds v. No
Grounds.
The new Tattersall’s Club in Auckland is a
great success.
This is the second time that Woolstone has won
Tattersall’s Cup.
A number of the best horses have been scratched
for the Dunedin Cup.
Messrs. Hobbs and Goodwin ran a new totali-
sator at the Auckland races.
Mr. J. R. Love has purchased the yacht Mabel,
formerly owned by Mr. W. J. Trickett.
Mr. Edward Lee backed Sweetmeat pretty
heavily as an outsider for the Champion Race.
The owner of Progress says his horse can beat
anything in the colonies, saving Grand Flaneur.
There is a Grand Flaneur running grandly in
England just now. He races always in blinkers.
Braidwood was scarcely able to walk across the
yard after winning the New Year’s Gift on New Year’s
Day.
The Australian bred horse Eandwick is picking
up a lot of races at up-country meetings in N.Z. this
season. His latest win was the Amberley Cup.
The Kensington Park Races resulted as follows;
Hurdles : Acrobat. Handicap Welter Race : Sea King.
Galloway Race : Midnight. Flat Race : Exile.
Dave Gregory had a little luck in his great
innings. He might have been run out had the fielding
been good, and Horan failed to take a chance he gave.
The Buchanan Races resulted as follows :
Maiden Plate: Lysander. Plying Handicap ; Fireball.
Hack Race: Matilda. Donnybrook Parse: Navy
Eights.
The Cudal Cricket Club gave the Molongites a
rather severe beating on Boxing Day, on the Molong
ground. They are to have another battle at Cudal about
Anniversary Day.
The New Zealand horse, Sinking Fund, who
one year ran Mata a dead heat for the Dunedin Cup,
broke down badly at Auckland while being prepared for
the races, and had to be shot.
A most successful race meeting took place at
Cudal on New Year’s Day. A very large concourse of
spectators assembled on the course, and the racing on
the whole gave entire satisfaction to all.
A New Zealand journal says the theory which
has been advanced as to Trickett’s power of rowing
having been interfered with by the loss of his finger,
seems to have some foundation. We think so too.
The Australian Eleven objected to allowing
Midwinter £3O for playing the Eleven opposed to them,
they thought the sum too much, and a hitch was only
averted by the kindly offices of non-cricketing friends.
The wager-boat of the future is to be filled with
hydrogen gas to make it more buoyant. Elliott is said
to have tried a boat of this kind, and “it seemed full
of life, and leaped to each stroke in a surprising
manner.”
Sir Hercules Robinson has purchased seven
mares in England for stud purposes in Auckland, N.Z.
They have been selected from the celebrated Middle
Park stud, and five of them are in foal to well-known
sires.
Secundus is a very had starter. In both his
events on New Year’s Day he should have had a better
say, but he could not be got to go until nearly the end
of the race, when he came through his horses a
“ cracker.”
The athletic sports at Morpeth on Boxing Day
were a great attraction. The results are as follows
Maiden Plate, Chaffe; Youths’ Handicap, R. Dunn;
Morpeth Grand Handicap, 150 yards, E. Guilfoyle;
Morpeth District Handicap, E. Guilfoyle.
Evans proved in the late match that his hand
has not yet lost its cunning. In the second innings he
secured 5 wickets for 54 runs, securing the first 3
wickets with a loss of only 6 runs. Jones proved he
was worth a place in the team by his bowling in the
second innings.
The English jockeys’ record. —Fordham rode
twenty-eight times at the last Newmarket meeting.
He had five wins, eight seconds, two thirds, and thirteen
times unplaced. Daring the Houghton meeting, Fred.
Archer had twenty-six mounts, winning seven, second
ten times, third twice, and seven times unplaced.
The Rugby Football Union of London replies to
the letter from Sydney advising against any visit, for
the present at any rate, of an Australian team of foot-
ballers. Only two matches a week could be played,
and the colonial rules are not the same as those of the
Rugby Union. So we must keep the blowing to our-
selves.
On the night of the 27th October, while
travelling by train from Newcastle to Darlington, Boyd,
the sculler, was set upon by three unknown men, who
savagely assaulted him on his declining to join them in
a game of cards. Boyd’s hat and coat were badly tom,
and his gold albert broken into three pieces. The men
got clear away.
Grahamstown Races, on Boxing Day, resulted
as follows Maiden Plate : Jocelyn I, Tumnt 2, At-
lantic 3. Pony Race: Maid of all Work 1, Larrikin 2.
New Year’s Gift: Angler 1, Jocelyn 2, Josephine 3.
Hack Race: Fairv Queen. Ladies’ Purse: Angler 1,
Josephine 2. Sixth Race: Solomon 1, Atlantic 2.
There were several accidents, the course being rough.
The New South Wales team were entertained at
dinner on the 30th. Mr. F. Walsh presided. D. Camp-
bell was presented with Messrs. Long and Co.’s trophy,
which is to be won three times in succession. Dave
Gregory received Mr. Trump’s prize for the highest
average score, and Evans the Association prize for the
best bowling and fielding. Messrs. Allan and Elliott
received special prizes for their batting.
This is how their movements were recorded in
the London papers:—Trickett and Laycock, and their
friend Mr. Thompson, M.L.A.,haveenjoyedabrief holi-
day during the first half of the week. Last Sunday morn-
ing (Oct. 19) they started for Portsmouth, whence they
journeyed to Southampton, and afterwards to the Isle
of Wight. Here they had an enjoyable time, and they
next visited Havre, en route for Paris, and, after a short
stay in that capital, returned to England, reaching
Putney on Thursday night.
The second day’s racing at Lithgow resulted as
follows:—Hurry Scurry: Darkie. Lithgow Jockey
Club Handicap: Claymore 1, Speculation 2, Pluto 3.
Prince of Wales Stakes; Mermaid 1, Echo 2, Glen-
amold 3. Forced Handicap: Claymore 1, Pluto 2,
Partner 3. Consolation Stakes : Echo 1, Pluto 2. The
settling took place at Gray’s Hotel, when the following
amounts were paid: Mr. Ether £65, Mr. G. Shepherd
£45, Mr. Phair £45, Mr. Mayce £5, Mr. Soden £lO, Mr.
M'Laughlin £5; total £175.
The public are now beginning to find fault
with onr team. Some say there were too many
colts in it; that the colts were bundled in one
after another—and so on. The fault-finding of the
public has generally no grounds, and this case is no
exception to the rule. The colts were put in in defe-
rence to the reiterated grumbling about the “ same old
players;” and the colts were not bundled in iu the manner
described. Besides, the colts have done comparatively
well. Arthur Gregory did not come off, certainly, but
he made a decent stand, and was invaluable iu the field.
Hiddlestone was just beginning to make himself
troublesome when the second innings closed. Jones
and Weame performed well with the ball, and Hall
distinguished himself behind the wickets. We cannot
always win; though we ought sometimes when we lose.
The accounts in the English journals all tally as
to the hollowness of the contest between Trickett and
Hanlan. The latter is regarded all round as a pheno-
menon in the boat, and far and away a better man
any day than ours. Only a bare reference is made here
and there to the fact of Trickett being untit. Hanlan’s
boat is said to hold her way between each stroke, and
seems never to stop; and in the contest with Tric'.ett,
it was thought Hanlan could have won by half a mile.
However, the true test of his powers will be in the match
with Laycock.
The proposed amendment in the rules of the
N.S.W. Rowing Association, to have only two delegates
from each club instead of three, was negatived by 15
votes to 6. The following are the officers for the year:
—President: Hon. G. Thornton, M.L.C. Vice-presi-
dents : Messrs. 0. L. Sahl, P. B. Walker, W. G. Laid-
ley, T. A. Dibbs, and J. E. Fairfax. Committee :
Messrs. J. W. M Cutcheon, H. Coles, C. C. Medoalf, J.
Blackman, J. Arthur, and T. F. Strange. Mr. H. Coles
(secretary) read the report and balance-sheet, which
were adopted.
Although beaten, the New South Wales team
deserve praise for the plucky way in which they
pulled up in the second innings. Gregory and Massie
first defied the Melbourne bowling, and then, when
Evans got with the Captain, a most determined stand
was made, placing New South Wales to the front. The
collapse of the Melbourne team in the second innings
was due to the splendid bowling of Evans and the
general fielding of our men. Not a chance was allowed
to slip, and the feats of Evans in the field were regarded
as almost phenomenal.
Acceptances for the Dunedin Cup, to be run on
February 2tth : —Le Loup, 9st. 91bs.; Fishook, 9st. ;
Ariel, Bst. lOlbg.; Hornby, Bst. 71bs. ; Grip, Bst. Gibs. ;
Volunteer, 7st. 121b5.; Sir Modred, 7st. lOlbs.; Long-
lands, 7st. 91bs.; Norseman, 7st. 71bs. ; Titauia, 7st.
Gibs.; Virginia Water, 7st. 31bs.; On Dit, 7st. 21bs.;
Eandwick, 7sb. 21bs. : King Quail, 7st. ; Lady, Gst.
131bs. ; The Governor, Gst. 131b5.; Adamant, Gst. lOlbs.;
Suva, Gst. lOlbs. ; Hilariono, Gst. lOlbs.; Sylvanus, Gst.
91bs.; Mischief, Gst. 81bs.; Miss Dommett, Gst. 31bf.
Le Loup, Sir Modred, Volunteer, and Virginia are first
favorites.
The Rowing Association show a balance of £6O
for the past year, but the committee “ view with regret
the scarcity of really first-class men and the few well-
contested races; in fact, the past year cannot be looked
upon as a successful one from an amateur rowing point of
view.” It also seems to us that more interest was taken
in amateur sculling in the days of Holdsworth’s Sub-
scription Club, when such men as Crook, Garran,
Sheridan, the Fitzhardinges, Yeomans, and Oatley
came to the front. Although there are greater numbers
now-a-davs, there is not such general or individual excel-
lence. What is the reason ? The skeleton may lurk in
our very restrictive definition of a gentleman amateur.
They do these things differently in Melbourne. Are we
too proud to take a hint from the sister colony ?
Allen and Elliott may be looked upon as heroes
by the Melbourne cricketers. With something like 50
runs to get to win, and that against Evans’s bowling
and the improved fielding of the New South Wales
team, the match looked a certainty for this oolony-
Cooper was looked upon as a dead man as far as batting
was concerned, and if anything were to be done to save
Victoria from a defeat, the time came when Elliott
went to join Allen at the wickets. The struggle was
a hard one, and the winners deserve all the credit they
obtained. It was just the time to get “funky,” but
both batsmen played with immense confidence, and
gave no chance to their opponents. The bowling was
dead on, the fielding superb; but tbe batsmen were
equal to tbe task, and runs came slowly one by one till
at last the victory was snatched from New South
Wales amid the acclamations of a joyful multitude.
This puts us three matches behind, and our cricketers
must fight hard to keep up their supremacy. A most
exciting contest must be expected in the return match
to be played in Sydney during February, when it is to
be hoped the Australian Eleven will take part.
A London paper of recent date says :—Con-
siderable amusement was caused recently by the
publication of an announcement that negotiations were
afoot between Trickett and Blackman to row for £lOOO
over the Thames course, the Australian to concede the
Englishman 200 yards’ start, such a start as has never
before been beard of—at least, 35 sec. It seems that on
the previous Saturday night two “ sportsmen ” in the
Albert Club were canvassing the relative merits of
Laycock and Blackman. Says sportsman No. 1; * Lay-
cock could give the Dulwich man 100 yards over the
Thames course.’ * Well, then,’ says No. 2, ‘ Trickett
can give Laycock another hundred, so the champion caa
give Blackman 200 yards from Putney to Mortlake; hut
I’ll bet you 10 to 1 he wouldn’t make the match.’ To
this No. 1 responded, ‘lam backing the Australian, and
just for the sake of a sov. I’ll take you.’ This was all
that occurred. Trickett never heard a word about the
business one way or the other, but it seems that
sportsman No. 2 rushed off at once and drew up articles
(indefinite), and posted money, and behaved generally
as if he was on a dead-sure thing for once in a way.
Experience never seems to teach some people, other-
wise Blackman’s awfully clever backer might have
remembered that he had no cause for thinking he could,
catch the Australian napping. One time the publica-
tion of such an insane draft of articles would have been
impossible, but now the aquatic way to he clever is to
be constantly doing something foolish.
A complete statement of the last racing season
in Queensland has been published, and from it we-
gather the following :—The hardest worked horses of
the season were Joe Abraham’s Balthazar, by the
Drummer out of Baloona, who was out no less than
nineteen times, winning four times only; and the same
owner’s Sunset (late Baroona), who ran the same
number of races, and won only three. Mr. F. Powers'
Battleaxe ch g, by Clarion out of Jewess, 4 years, did
his share, for he ran sixteen races, and won four. The
Hon. M. H. Morton’s Othello, 2 years, by Epigram,
out of Olive (imp.), was out fifteen times, and was re-
turned winner of jnst a third of that number. Mr.
Henderson’s Orphan is credited with five wins out of
fourteen starts. Canary, by Epigram—Caprice (imp.),
ran fourteen times and won eleven. Major, by Drum
Major, ran the same number of races, and was suc-
cessful in nine. Mr. Chappie’s Roderick Dhu scored
four victories against nine defeats. Satirist (late Mr.
Dines’) has a winning record of five, and a losing one of
six. Olivia, half sister to Othello, won six races out of
thirteen starts. Waterloo, without reckoning his races
in New South Wales, ran eleven times, winning five.
Beadsman has paid his way since he left New South
Wales, as out of twelve races he is credited with five
wins, and they were worth “ taking up,” too. Mr. A.
Reid’s Ace, by Trnmp Card, won seven, and lost seven.
Mail Train won seven races out of eight starts. The
winner of the largest number of races was the Hon. J.
P. Bell’s Canary, who was put in 14 events.
Full particulars are now to hand of the great
sculling contest between Hanlan and Trickett for the
Championship of the World; and the English sporting-
critics, while generally admitting that Trickett was
overtrained and decidedly not in his best form, are of
opinion that Hanlan is a much superior sculler than
our champion. However, that has yet to be proved.
It cannot be expected that a man out of form and
unwell could exhibit his style to its full extent, and so
we must take Trickett’s shortcomings in the great race
as unavoidable. The English sporting men have not
seen him pull as we have on the Parramatta River.
The Trickett that defeated Laycock here and the
Trickett that rowed Hanlan will be found to be vastly
different men. In the great race, Trickett rowed bare-
backed, while Hanlan wore a dark-blue sleeveless jersey.
Both men got away together, Trickett pulling a quicker
though less lengthy stroke than his opponent, who was
rowing in the centre of the river, and had all the
advantage of the slack tide. Trickett’s 40 strokes a
minute to Hanlan’s 36 succeeded in getting his boat a
little in front, but the condition told, and Hanlan
slowly drew up before a mile had been passed, and led
Trickett by a length. Prom this out Hanlan had it all
his own way; Trickett, however, making great efforts
to overhaul his opponent, who kept his lead easily, and
took whatever liberties be pleased. He kept up a con-
versation with Elliott, who was rowing alongside him,
sculled out of time, lay back in his boat, while the
beaten Australian was delving with pluck that deserved
the strength and condition he wanted to bring him
level with his conqueror. Hanlan won by three lengths
in 26min. 12sec., though he could have won by a great
deal more. The time, which surprised the backers of
Trickett, is not so slow, after all, when the nature of
the tide on the river is taken into consideration. The
race created great excitement in England, and the
attendance of spectators was almost as large as that at
the University Boat Race. It is very likely that
another match will be arranged.
(For “ Late Sporting ” see page 3.)


Tailors, Drapez
JQAVID JONES ANI
ORIENT CLOTH
For Gentlemen’* Spring and Sumt
reliable fabrics, fashionably t
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND
Direct special attention to their I
made clothing for the Spring an
being unequalled in style, qu
whole of their stock having b
pressly to meet the requireme
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business t
Gentlemen’s ITomenad
Gentlemen’s Travelling
Gentlemen’s Dress suitii
D
AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Bac Suits
Comprising Co
and Trousers,
favourite colo
cut and finisl
best manner.
D
AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Sac Suits,
The latest shaj
ful and dun
for business
nary wear.
JJAVID JONES ANI
Orient
Bac Suits,
In light Homes
thin Cheviots
nockburns. fo
and Summer w
D
AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Sac Suits,
( In Choice
' Tweeds, exc*
general wear
, checks and no
D
AVID JONES ANI
Orient
Walking suits.
''In Superior
I Tweeds, cut
I latest styl
finished the
ordered cloth
D
iAVTD JONES ANI
("Beautifully I
Orient j Texture, pern
Serg Suits. j colour and i
\ able in wear.
D
AVID JONES ANI
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, ano nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
("Special attenti
vited to ou)
Clothing, a
the best vi
most perfect
and finsh pi
in the colony.
In Superior T
Flannel, tt
shrunk.
!In f
Fh
sh:
{China Silk Coat*
Milit ary Duck C
Pine black Alpa
All Wool Merlm
Superior Serge C
Black and Blue
{In fine Black A1
In Super Black !
In HlueSergeret
In Black Serger
("In fine Black A1
< In Black Merine
(.In Super serger
Gentlemen’s ("Super White Du
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J.
656
B. Y O U D A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
GEORGE STREET, 666
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
Tailors, Draper
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOI
358, 360, 362, GEORGE
SPRING NOVI
In consequence of the great im
their importations this season ext
FIFTY THOUSAND
THEY are now making their first t
early shipments in all de
THOMPSON AND
having purchased these goods in
the world, are marking them at. pi
CHALLENGE COMP]
The same quality of material can
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
'THOMPSON
opened their
of Millinery,
exhibiting in
all choice go
snred that tl
with an inspi
gratified at tl
now displayii
’ comprise an i
of British an
made especial
Giles by the
London anc
trimmed Boi
18s 9d. Lac
feathers, I
. ments, &c
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
("THOMPSON
TLES, PICB
—We wish t<
attention of
Department,
the finest lot
Capeletts, an
ever been e:
Our Stock ci
designs in sht
variety of Be
' lid to 30s; 1
trimmed, froii
Cashmere Ma
Large lot of 1
chased very n
prices; some i
at very low pr
Jerseys, to
every colour
dreu’s Jersey
„ every size.
("THOMPSON
TUME DEPji
first houses i
in every style
can select in i
vidual taste,
from 42s to 6
signs and trim
variety of W
cambrics an
printed sat©
Galatea stripe
from 15s to 30
well made,
tumes, in a vi
. other fabrics,
("THOMPSON
ING FABR1
plain and pri
Materials is i
bracing all s
both French
and Linen Te
add colouring
best efforts,
affirm that a
-j ment of ehoil
has never be
colonies. Bri
to 8|d; Freni
to ltd ; Frer
to 18d; Plain
lOd to Is 6d;
Galatea Clotl
talea Cloth, ii
to ltd; Freni
, and plain; Br
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
("THOMPSON i
SOLS and
have received
designs in Far
will find nov
description ci
ness. Our p
lid, 4s lid, 5i
20s. We hav
■ of 5000 Paras
New styles a;
Satin, Sateem
embroidered,
handsome B
shapes at mod
Business Announ
[Legal.J
SHORTER, PITZGEkIl]
SOLICITO
69 CASTLEREAGH STHE
and
MACQUARIE STREET
Mr, Shorter, Notarj
T EGAU.—Mr. T. M.
SOLICITOR, has c.
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STREET, opposite
w
News Office.
mac
PORTRAIT PAI
225 BOURKE STREET, WOC
MR. AND MRS
Experienced and thorough
PATHIC PRACTITIONi
MENT DAILY, at 107 LI'
Pamphlets gratis.
AND S. P ]
SAW MILLS AND TIM
16 Erskine Stbi
Every description of Foreign a
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., al
K
OBERT BUTC
(Late William L
WINE AND SPIRIT MI
534 GEORGE STB
OPPOSITE TOWN HAT.3
Country Orders Receive Pr
varnis:
ALEX. BORTHW
OIL AND COLOR ME1
Importer of Paperhi
Oils, Colors, Var
White Lead, Glass, I
Marble and Enamelled Slat<
Fenders, Tiles, and (
Room and Picture-Frame
281 (Late 273), QEOEGE-STRI
T H A R
** * WHEELWRIGHT AND
BUILDER, &c
Hat and Engine St
Established 185:
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LOI
Railway Contractors would find it t
inspect the large stuck of seasor
able for Dobbins and other 1
J. H A R V E 1
Hay and Engine St
JgOOTS!
BOOTS! !
MAKE TOUR PUR(
AT
H. HILDEI
NEW BOOT
670 GEORGE ST
BRICKFIELD HI]
ALL NEW GOODS, JUS
AND TO BE SOL
AT THE
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid ont on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 5s, and npwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
exhibition kid gloves soft and reliable,
8-BUTTON 4-BUT'I ON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OE POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JUST OPENED a large shipment of black.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PEESFN IS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
DEESSMAKING.
MILLINERY.
X ABIES WILL BE MU
JU WI'IH THE BARGAIN?
SUMMER HOSIERY AT ED
(the “ Hordern ” of the city). 1
have ADD THE APTFARANCI
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WTIH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCE WITI
171 PITT STEE
EDMUND W
NAVAL AND MILITAI
14s 6d., 16s. 6d., 21
TROUSERS. TROUSERS
All wool and well
SOs. BANNOCKBUEN SUI
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED befc
rjiHE
BEST AND LA
of
W O 0 L L E
in the colony
FASHIONABLE AND
GARMENTS TO C
at
J. TURNER ROBIN
MARKET CLOTH
482 (late 484) geor
Opposite the Fruit h
Established 18
REDUCED PR
TROUSERS TO ORDER,
TROUSERS & VE
SUITS TO measue:
vr All goods well made, wcl
perfect fit guarani
TAILORING
16 PARK STE
(Near George-str<
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest
West of England Tweed Tn
„ Suits
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a
R. L. LINDSi
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX3
January 8, 1881.


Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAPE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chffi de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM.
Manager,
June 30,1880.
10MPAGNUN1 PALAv-E CAPE COMPANY
S serve up in their best style
OYSTER S'IEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
A
ETIS’S CLUB HOTEL,
Comer William and Dowling Streets.
This new and splendid HO TEL has lately been opened
by Mr. ARTIS. As the Propietor was an officer in the
service of the A S.N. Co for thirteen years, this alone
will be a sufficient guarantee that visitors will find all
the comforts of a first-class bouse.
The BILLIARD ROOM has one of Alcock’s best
Tables, and is replete with every requisite.
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, Ad., of the Best Brand*
only.
Oinnibusses pass the Hotel every tire minutes.
J. E. ARTIS,
Proprietor.
m ATTERSALL’S HOTE L.
JL TERRAKA
PATRICK STANTON,
(Late of Sydney and Mittagong),
Proprietor.
esr None but first class ALBS, WINES, & SPIRITS
in STOCK,
Every attention paid to Visitors who will find Good
Accomodation.
TERMS MODERATE.
ALCOCK’S PUEL-SIZED BILLIARD TABLE.
HORSES and BUGGY always in readiness.
esr Commercial Travellere and VisPors to SHOAL-
HAVEN supplied with Private or Public Conveyances
on receipt of telegram or letter. Also a commodious
SHOW ROOM for Commercials.
The “Bulletin” Coach meets Steamer twice wee ak
from the Hotel.
TVT E W Z E A L A N IX
To Todkists and others Visiting New Zealand.
WAIWERA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEAR AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, ROTORUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of every description). 2i
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, TARAWERA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the far-famed ROTOMA-
HANA TERRACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite esta j ishments.
On receipt of telegram or letter addressed to “The
Manager,” at Ellerslie, the fullest iufoimation will ha
immediately supplied.
ROBERT GRAHAM, Proprietor.
THE MEDTCL VIRTUES OP THE WAIWERA
AND ROTORUA WATERS (NEW ZEALAND),
BY Dk. ECCLLS.
Lake House, Rotorua, 12th September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot Springs) also Lake
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel, Tarawera,
on a tour, for the purpose of investigating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. I hwe iu each case stayed
at the hotels owned hy Mr. K. Graham, and have to
thank him and his managers for the great couitesy ex-
tended towards me. 'J he Springs ai the first two men-
tioned places, I feel confident, possess the most valu-
able medicinal qualities whilst the Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from the last-u ei- ioned place) are such that
every person possessing the me ns ought to visit. The
internal arrangements of the various hotels havu beem
made to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M B Cantab; F R.C H. L.M. , Edin.
EW ZEALAND.
The Hotel par excellence in New Zealand is the
ALBERT HOTEL,
QUEEN STREET, AUCKLAND,
E. J. DAVIDSON (late of the Star Hotel), Peopririor
Tourists visiting Auckland should first write and seeuM
accommodation at THE ALBERT.
Apartments en suite for ladies and families.
Superb accommodation iu each department, and all the
et-ceteras of a high-class hotel.
mo TOURISTS AND OTHERS VISITING
I NEW ZEALAND.
The Auckland Route is the shortest, safest and best
route to the wonderful Hot Lake District. The STAR
HOTEL, Albert-Street, Auckland ( n close proximity
to the Wharf and Railway Station), offers special and
advantageous inducements to travellers. This magnifi-
cent Hotel is luxuriously furnished and replete with
every appurtenance and appliance of a really first-class
house.
Visitors to Auckland would do well to inspect the
suburb accommodation obtainable only at “THE
STAR,” before deciding where they will locate them-
W. A CLARKR Manager.
ADAM CAIRNS Proprietor.
jjpo ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Wester*
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS.
Proprie’or.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR STDNIT.
Price List on application.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Hotels, &c.
OCCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Okauge.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
J C. W A L K E
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
iERATED WATERS, GINGER BEER,
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
k— —
■ I
SOLE MANUFACTUEEES :
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCOED WOEKS,
8 MACQUAKIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORK1S,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can he used with or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
1879-80.
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
m*m
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
PROM FILTERED WATER,
Soppliid in any Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office— 2i O’CONNELL STREET.
F O !S T E R.
-.v-
-= et
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
r
m
Solo
Proprietary
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully no npareil, as Dree quantities
•ire being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
R.
H E L L Y E
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
B.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
T
HE GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4-,
Distinguished by the Label
<: ■'
n't
»
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULTCHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Bh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Eoyal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Eoyal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862 ; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Eepuo.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili) 1875; Philadelphia,
1876 ; and Capetown. 1877. (Paris, 1878 —Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARTA FAETNA,
Julichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, PEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYAED SQUAEE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“ I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Takpinq Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Unncolonred Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staiger,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWAED CLARKE, Oxford-street.
P. BOWES. Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-street.
E. S. TIGHE, Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAGEETY, Old South Head Road, Paddington
rOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GROWER & MERCHANT,
COOLALTA WINE CELLAR
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard: Coolalta, Branxton, New South Wales.
PRICE LIST OP
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now he obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so largvlv <wn « •> ed.
&
SS
S
Tj
%
P
w
K
ii
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the pric*.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C H AS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT isnot the clearness r oo d non alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves t'lis rind first in public esti
mation. Common bitter rude bieis are made very fim,
but no other brand has >uc same o ellow vinous chann -
ter, the fulness on the palite, a* d the grcat keeping
qualities of the Bull Bog Ale. Consumers are there
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of ai
extra profit represent the common beers refetred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents,
m
5*2
VA
LRAO£ MARJ$.
>u
B
OAE’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
Is selected with crest care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
Hid CO., Dublin, and tboret to cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. B CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents
January 8, 1881.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Strauss Band agent is in Sydney.
Mdlle. Haselmayer had a benefit in Dunedin,
N.Z.
Miss Pomeroy’s company is a success at Sand-
hurst.
The Melbourne papers warmly compliment La
Touillade.
The only Leon has had a fine run of success in
Melbourne.
La Fille du Tambour Major takes well in
Melbourne.
Madame Fransgini still in N.Z. playing in the
small towns.
The Simonsens have been doing good business at
Invercargill.
St. Leon’s circus has been doing good business
at Melbourne.
De Lias, the well-known impressario, has been
very ill lately.
Off the stage, Salvini is a farmer. He is worth
about £40,000.
The Confederate Panorama drew good houses
at Wanganui, N.Z.
Clara Stephenson and company had a successful
season at Hokitika, N.Z.
Sarah Heart-Burn is what the New York variety
boys call Sarah Bernhardt.
Ketten did poor business at Dunedin, N.Z.
Big houses at Christchurch.
Zulu Thompson had 1000 at his Zulu show at
Newcastle one night last week.
E. D. Middlesex, the well-known Middlesex
cricketer, has been visiting N.Z.
The Carlotta Patti Concert Company were to
open in Calcutta on November 15.
Jimmy O’Brien and a small company are playing
in the Auckland country districts.
Mr. A. Forbes, the war correspondent, is
lecturing to hig houses in New York.
The Byronic Comedy Company played at the
West Coast, N.Z,, during the holidays.
The Williamsons have “ Struck Oil,” and gold
also, once more. This time at Hobart.
Mr. and Mrs. Hart (“Happy Hours”), at last
accounts, had been playing at Masterton.
Yoegtlin, the famous scenic artist, is doing most
of the scenic work for Haverly’s theatres.
Simonson’s Opera Company open at Christ-
church, in the Theatre Royal, on January 14.
The Austrian Strauss Band took J 3350 for one
day’s performance on the Reserve, Sandhurst.
Simonson’s Opera Company opened at Dunedin
in “ Martha.” Big houses during the season.
Williamson and Garner are waiting for the
music to produce “The Pirates of Penzance.”
Signor Morley and a company occupied the
Queen’s Theatre. Dunedin, N.Z., during the holidays.
No theatrical company visited Townsville for
Christmas, not even was an amateur entertainment
held.
The Carandinis gave a brilliantly successful
concert at the Town Hall, Melbourne, on Boxing
night.
Gerald Dillon eschews acting and joins the
police force at the conclusion of the * Queens’ ’ Panto-
mime.
One of the Auckland prints has a dead set
against Louise Pomeroy. Has she sighted the “ thin
man.”
Madame Hersce has gone to Melbourne, and it
is understood she will be engaged for the opera season
there.
The New York Fire Department considers every
theatre in the city unsafe—no moans of escape in case
of fire.
The Sydney Musical Union propose giving
Rossini’s celebrated Stabat Mater at their next
con-°rt.
Professor Haselmayer opened at Christchurch,
N.Z., on December 24, and has since attracted large
audiences.
Herr Benjno Scherek, the famous accompanist
to Camilla Urso’s company, is in Sydney en route to
Melbourne.
A Wellington lady, Miss H. E. Eex, had a suc-
cessful benefit in that town previous to her departure
for Melbourne.
Mr. Beattie is now proprietor of the Theatre
Royal. Christchurch, N.Z., Mr. Geddes acting as his
representative.
A N.Z. journalist named Ivess intends starting
a society journal in Christchurch, N.Z., to be called
The Bueletih.
What next ? Harry Hunter, the great London
minstrel, had sixteen comer men on the chairs at his
annual benefit.
It is rumoured in N.Z. that Kate Kelly and her
brother Jim are going on a “starring” tour in that
colony shortly.
Tommy Hudson’s Surprise Party, now in India
had a most successful season in Bombay, and were next
to appear at Calcutta.
Wilson’s Circus and Chiarini’s combination of
circus and Menagerie are both travelling the Indian
provinces, and doing well.
J . E. Cheevers is playing with the Moore and
Burgess Minstrels in London. Charley Sutton is still
a member of the company.
Jeannie Winston, at last accounts, was in New
York, looking for an engagement, after a successful
tour In the east of America.
Proctor says Nelson (“ Sleepy Hollow”) is the
Boston of N.Z. He spent his Christmas holidays at
the Hot Lakes, Rotomahana.
Miss Jennie Nye and Mr. Fisher have seceded
from the Lydia Howarde Opera Company, and Mr. J.
Stark has taken the latter’s place.
Vernon Eeid’s new ballad, “ Star of Love,” has
taken immensely in Melbourne, as also has Beaumont
Read’s song, “ The Empty Cradle.”
Miss Eena (Mrs. Fred. G. Maeder) is on an
American tour starring as Moya the Faithful, in her
husband’s new drama entitled “ Run to Earth."
Mr. and Mrs. Hooper, Miss Hettie Lambrette,
Mr. and Miss Fisher, and Miss Jennie Nye lately made
a tour of the Otago goldfields, and did very well.
De Vere, “the distinguished prestidigitateur,
illusionist, and inventor,” lately appeared at the Odd-
fellows’ Hall, Christchurch, N.Z., for six nights.
The Juvenile Troubadours are doing a splendid
business at Charters Towers. They have played to full
houses there for four weeks, and do not intend leaving
for some time yet.
Cole’s Mammoth Circus Show did a big business
in Christchurch. The company played at Dunedin
during the Christmas and New Year holidays to
enormous crowds.
Haverley’s Minstrels were compelled to close
their successful London season in the middle of
October, owing to the theatre being let for the usnal
autumn opera season.
Mrs. Walter Hill and her daughter Lily Way,
have been “ lying on their oars” in Christchurch, N.Z.,
owing to the company, of which Mrs. Hill was the
leading lady, disbanding.
“ The Martyr of Antioch,” Sullivan’s cantata,
or “sacred musical drama.” as he chooses to call it,
recently produced at Leeds, England, is said to be
strongly reminiscent in parts of “ Pinafore." Sullivan
seems to be a one-idea man after all.
Schwab, the New York critic, who engineers Sara
Bernhardt through the states, has accepted £3OO from
Sarony for the exclusive right to photo, the child of
Oemus while in America.
The executors of Alfred Bunn have claimed the
copyright of “ Happy moments ”in “ Maritana.” Mr.
C. Weatherly’s song, “When Sunny Skies,” will be
sung to the old familiar air.
Advices of a private character give us the intel-
ligence that Adelina Patti and Signor Nicolini have
had a decided falling out, and that Patti has placed all
her business in the hands of Mr. Gye.
A dramatic entertainment was given in
Townsville on Wednesday evening, 29th inst., for the
benefit of a blind person. “ Taming a Tiger ” and
Good for Nothing ” were the pieces played,
9?°° f crew of the Wakatipu, which took
j Circus from Wellington, had the misfortune to
offend one of the elephants, which revenged itself by
seizing him with its trunk and throwing him down.
Madame Selina Dolaro’s Opera-bouffe Company
formed in London for a tour in America received a
severe handling from the New York critics tor their
opening performances, and are likely to be a failure.
Madame Lottie Wilmot, in one of her recent
lectures in N.Z. on woman’s rights, suggested that a
tax of £lO per year be imposed on all bachelors over 25
years of age, until they produce marriage certificates.
There is a Sunday Shakespeare Society at
Hampstead, England. The various plays of the great
dramatist are read and discussed each Sunday—much
to the benefit of the large gathering of ladies and
gentlemen who attend.
The change in the name of the play, “ Black-
eyed Susan” to “ William and Susan,” and the altera-
tion of the two first acts of the drama, have been con
demned bv the Jerrold family, out of respect to the
memory of their father.
Ashton’s Circus performed to good houses at
Stanifer, last week. Young James Ashton’s perform-
ances were unmistakeably clever, as were also those of
his brother Prod. Ashton gave his last entertainment
for the Public School, realising between £l5 and £2O.
The Musical World, in London, wishes to
know whether Signor Verdi, the singer, is any relative
to the illustrious composer. We are happy to he
enabled to give the information asked for. Signor
Verdi is from Baltimore, and his real name is Green.
Emilie Melville, Californian prima donna, has
been advised to retire from the stage for the purpose of
resting her voice, which shows signs of breaking down
from over work. The little lady can hardly do so from
all accounts, as her husband’s income is not sufficient
for the family support.
Walter Reynolds, with his company (consisting
of Herr Bandmann, Louise Beaudet, J. P. Cathcart,
James Hall, Grace Hathaway, Acmes Crawford, and
several others), commenced his N.Z. tour at Inver-
cargill, playing to good houses. Tht company open at
Dunedin on or about the sth January.
Mr. James Allison writes from Adelaide with
reference to a paragraph in a previous issue of The
Bulletin, and says that the money advanced in London
by his agent to Mr. E. Marshall for his passage was so
advanced on the understanding set forth in writing
that it was to be refunded. Mr. Marshall refunded the
money as agreed.
Miss Ella Carrington and Mr. and Mrs. C H
Taylor have been playing at the People’s Theatre,
Melbourne. Mr. Taylor has played Bob Brierly in the
Ticket-of-Leave Man," Myles-na-Coppaleen in " Col-
leen Bawn, and. for his benefit, Brian O’Parrell in
to play n at Adel a Seee e 7 Leaves Company are about
A little nine-year-old son of Neal, an American
painter living in Munich, is developing extraordinary
musical genius. Although ignorant of harmony, his
scores, when copied out by his friends are perfectly
correct. -They consist of waltzes, romances, songs
without words, and themes with variations of a weird
and melancholy character.
A young artist who lives in a boarding-house
wants to know how he can learn to play the violin
without disturbing the other boarders, and an appre-
ciative genius tells him, “ Soap your bow and bathe
your strings twice a week in sweet oil; then you can
sit up all night and play overtures, and nobody will
mind it.
The New York Musical Critic and Trade
Review writes The baritone, Verdi, sang in
. , 15’ and the Melbourne Arocs thinks that in
Kigoletto he was more than equal to the situation.
We are glad to hear that the gentleman has improved,
for three years ago, when singing with Strakosh. he
was never equal to the occasion.**
_ Grattan Riggs, Messrs. Burford, Musgrave,
Tyrell, Clinton, Burton, the Misses Marie Wilton (who
has recently been staying in Dunedin, N.Z.), Mnrielle
Mc!an, and Melrose have combined under the leader!
ship of the first-named gentleman, and did pavable
business at Wanganui. They next visit Nelson. New
Plymouth, and most probably Auckland.
Here is a brief synopsis of the latest of the
younger Dumas lovely and moral dramasln the first
act, a young girl is seen in the midst of her family ■ in
the second, she is married : in the third, she elopes with
fntWflftil th^ f 0 h ’ the husband elopes with acoeotk
m the fifth, the lover mames the cocotte, and husband
and wife are reunited. What an excellent story !
Mr. Thomas Macfarlane, of Auckland. N Z
has been appointed trustee in W. H. Lingard’e estate’
The principal items under the heading “ liabilities
areas follow:—“To Mr. Williamson, Melbourne, fines
recovered for the performance of Gilbert and Sullivan’s
operetta, H M.S. Pinafore,’ £586; to Mr. Searell
musician, services, £300; to Mr. Craig, actor, £2BO ■ to
Mr. Haygarth, actor, £35.” ’
aA Stly / S ’ l n 9 on< ?Td is Soing down. The man-
tf lnt wl UCed the system of sending out orders
broadcast. When a person arrives he finds the place
infested by harpies. You cannot refuse to give them
KSShT*! 4, ° r “ d yoa cannot gT thZ
back without payment The matter has been before
f}jj? SSfl C ?. urt> the manager punished-mnch to
the gratification of Press and Stage.
This is kow they “ perform ” in San Francisco
L til DOW a theatrical performance
m one of the principal houses, a baby in the gallery
n SC f % loudly that the actor s were quite
thrown out, and ths manager, to drown the child’s
cries, bade the orchestra strike np a loud tune where
upon a miner who had just come in, shouted out
Here, I say, stop them darned fiddles; I haven’t heard
a habjds voice for seven years.”
Lydia Howarde’s Opera Company received
great praise for the production of “ Pinafore ” at Wpl
lington, N‘.Z. The following is the cast :-Sir Joseph
J. Marshall; Captain Corcoran, H. Power- Raich
Rackstraw Hayes; Deadeye, J. Stark; Boatswain,
Leopold; Josephine, Lydia Howarde; Hebe Blande
Leopold; Buttercup, Miss de Glorian. The local
papers say Miss de Glorian was by far the best Butter
cup that has as yet appeared on the Wellington stage.
A boat race between Mr. W. H. Lingard and
Mr. Searell over the Christchurch mile course recently
attracted a large number of spectators, mainly of the
theatrical profession. Mr. Searell caught a crab ”
and lost his sculls. Soon after this the Thespian ran
into the bank, and was also in difficulties. Mr. Searell
having recovered one of his sculls, proceeded to paddle
and then a series of fouls took place. The referee
decided, under the circumstances, that the race should
be rowed again. The race will be probably rowed in
Auckland.
Our Auckland correspondent writes on Dec.
28“ Mr, and Mrs. Lingard opened in the Theatre
Royal on Tuesday last, in “ Stolen Kisses," to a poor
house, which continued until Christmas Eve. Since
then business has been excellent. By permission, the
comedy of “ Our Friends” was produced on Boxing
Night, and it proved a big hit. Cecile was represented
by w rs. Lingard, and Markham by Mr. Lingard; the
company giving good support to the principals. On
Christmas Night, a sacred and secular concert was
given by Mr. and Mrs. Lingard, Luscombe Searell
Gordon Gooch, J. B, Steele, Owen Westford, Dawson)
?r nd . several others. It was a great success. The
Lydia Howarde Company and Ketten visit the town
early next year.”
Garnet Walch gets off the following in a N Z.
journal he is correspondent for:—“At the Novelty
Theatre, the French Comedy Company are delighting
the ‘paraquette,’ pleasing the ‘ stalls,’ beautifying the
‘balcony,’ and utterly bewildering the ‘pit.’ I shall
never forget the series of expressions on the face of
a worthy seaman who strolled leisurely into the last-
named part of the house the other evening, quietly
awaited the rising of the curtain, listened more and
more attentively to each fresh sentence uttered by the
performers, shook his head, leaned forward and
listened again most intensely, and finally made his way
hurriedly out, exclaiming— 4 Well, I'm d d,' and,
palpably pinching himself, to prove whether after all it
might not be either a dream or the commencement of
delirium tremens
At the invitation of the London Shakespeare
and Burns Club, a party of more than three hundred
ladies and gentlemen assembled on the 29th September,
in the suite of rooms on the ground floor of Queen
Anne s Mansions, to welcome Mr. Creswick on his
return •to London from a three years* professional tour
in Australia and New Zealand. Mr. Eobert Crawford
was in the chair, and a congratulatory address from
the Club was presented and read by Mrs. Fairfax. Mr.
Creswick thanked the Club in his own name and in the
name of tie art he represented. Mme. Edith Wynne
then sang a welcome, and Mr. Quatremaine and Miss
bmgleton lent their services. The Hon. Mr. Norton,
late Advocate-General of Madras, and several dis-
tinguished amateurs, assisted, while Archdeacon
Hunbar made a speech on the relation between the
Church and Stage.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Messrs. Kemble, Macready, Garrick, and De
Fries had a spiritualistic seance down Woolloomooloo
last Monday night, and during the course of the fes-
tivities the shade of Mr. W. Shakespeare sauntered in,
and observed, “ Marry! De Fries, old man, niethinks
tis devilish warm to-night.” The compliments of the
season were then exchanged, and shortly after Mr. De
Fries remarked, “ William, what did yon think of the
la.st Bulletin ?” The immortal hard immediately
picked up a slate and wrote as follows—
“ It was the grandest issue of them all.
The cartoon went high; and the items were so warm
That even a D. T. man might stand up and say to all
the word, ‘ This is a boss paper.’ ”
We are pleased to find The Bulletin so popular in
Spiritland, and we would now draw the attention of
our readers over there to the fact that Mr. Pontius
Pilate is the only person authorised to collect sub-
scriptions and receive advertisements in the land of
the Great Intayur.
At the Randwick Grand Stand, the press are
pampered by a luxurious accommodation, which is
almost Oriental in its reckless splendour. At the back
°£ “ le Grand Stand, adjoining the compartment where
the old bottles are kept, is a saloon sacred to the
gentlemen of the Fourth Estate. It has bare white-
washed walls, a crazy table with two dirty blotting
pads, a sixpenny looking-glass, and a cement floor. It
moreover boasts of a sink with a piece of yellow soap
and a smell. There is also a brush—one hair-brush for
the use of the reporters generally, with its price, “ 2s
6d., ’ still written on it. This is the kind of place to
make a man dissatisfied with his Macquarie-street
boarding-house; and if the A.J.C. would only add a
tooth-brush and a jack-towel it's ten to one but the
reporters would not request leave to live there
altogether.
This poem is written with a purpose. The late
discrraceful scenes at the so-called popular picnics have
aroused at length in the minds of the public a feeling
that “there is something wrong somewhere." There
are fathers and mothers who innocently allow their
children to attend these gatherings, in order to give
their offspring the benefit, as they think, of a breezy
day s enjoyment. Had they, however, an inkling of
the reality of these reunions, it is evident that they
would select other means for their children of enjoying
a national holiday. In touching a subject such as this,
it is impossible to avoid mingling with the description
a certain amount of the ultra-grotesque. We do not.
however, apologise for this : since, when a strong evil
exists, a strong remedy is necessary for its removal.
The medical gentlemen and surgeons are com-
plammg very bitterly just now of the inactivity of onr
football clubs and players. Hardly anyone breaks his
legs or mashes his collar-bone into pulp, or goes around
with ms eye m his hand, or his ear down his back at
present, and all because our young men are growing
either careless or full about this noble game. Football
i? n 9 ~ y a healthy and a manly game (especially for
the fellow underneath), but it pushes trade and makes
things nice and lively for doctors, chemists, under-
takers, deal-box manufacturers, coroners, and a host of
other unfortunate persons who look forward to every
match with the most eager anticipations. Football is
also one of the oldest games the world has ever seen,
tor, as Dr. Beg informs me, it is mentioned in that
part of Genesis which says, “And, rising up. King
Bharoah put Joseph over his house.” This is about
the biggest “ put” on record. And I’m mighty thank-
tui 1 wasn t in Joseph’s boots upon the occasion.
Thursday’s Evening News finds fault with
Miss Josephine Deakin, the charming soprano, because
she does nt open her pretty mouth wide enough.”
.Now I am ready to wager any sum not exceeding a
crown piece that it was a single man who wrote that
par. By and bye, however, he will know better: and
when his wife calls over the dressmaker’s little account,
or when he walks home at 3 a.m. with a boot in each
hand, and his sober half begins to read over the Biot
Act, and ask prize conundrums, he’ll regret the day he
ever blamed one of the softer sex for not opening her
mouth a little wider. Soldene would be the girl at
present for that reporter’s money, as I have been
c f. e “ :l bly informed she can kiss six men at once, and
still find enough room to warble out the whole of
Pinafore.
Talking professionally reminds me Macready was
once playing in Addison’s Cato, and a minor part had to
be /!r ( , ly glven t 0 one o£ the seven and-six-a-week-
and-lind your-own-stockings-supers. Part of the artist’s
rule was to enter and say, “ My Lord, I am sent to you
from Cato. Mr. Super, however, insisted on speaking
the piece his own way; so skipping in briskly on tip-
toe. he jauntily observed in an off-hand sort of wav.
Me Lord, I m sent to yon from Keetoe." Macready
looked savagely at the fellow for a moment, and then
said, ‘ Would that Cato had sent a better messenger ”
upon which the other artist promptly replied “Oh ’it
don’t matter ad nto me, Mr. Macready: I don’t
mek a single shillin’ out ov it.” The chemist charged
him £3 for subsequent repairs and physic.
If there were ever a seedplot of protection in our
midst the name of that plot is Pyrmont. At the late
regatta, Pyrmont Byrnes supplied the steamers: Pyr-
mont Jones (the real Ebenezer) supplied the trophies •
the Pyrmont Band supplied the music; Pyrmont Wm
Collins supplied the refreshments, and the Pyrmont
secretary invited all the Pyrmont committee to board
tne Jryrmont ship to eat them. Everything smelt of
Pyrmont. The water teemed with Pyrmont; the balmy
breeze trom the Abattoirs scattered Pyrmont around
on every side, and an unfortunate lunatic who con-
tessed to living at North Shore, was very properly
tarred and feathered, and ridden round the town on a rail
because he said he didn’t think much of Pyrmont
Some say the success of this aquatic reunion was solely
due to the late elections, and the wonder is will there
be any more regatta next year if there are no elections
The conduct of some persons who seemed to think that
the fact of their having paid up their subscriptions
entitled them to more ham sandwiches and colonial
beer than those who didn’t, was reprehensible in the
extreme, and evidently proves they are not quite up to
customs of good society. v
He was a clerk in a George-street bank • he
was ten months married, and he was just beginning to
discover that there are certain matters connected with
wedded life that are never dreamt of in a single man’s
philosophy. It occurred to her that she’d like a nice
present about the festive time of Christmas, and it
occurred to him that it would be just as well to com-
bine instruction with amusement, so he waltzed home
one night with a neat little work called “How to dress
like a lady on £15 a year. It was one of the old-
fashioned, brass mounted, candlesticks the lady need
for this occasion, and when the infirmary doctor
extracted the last of the fragments there was a ravine
*~ e back of that clerk’s head that would remind one
of the Great Mont Cenis tunnel—especially if he had
never seen it. £15 a year! Why the Melbourne girls
give that for a boot lace—at least, they say they do, and
I won’t argue with them.
It is not generally known, but I believe it’s as
true as the Bible, or the Telegraph, that the sole
survivor of Waterloo is at the present time in Sydney
His name is Chevalier Mick Moloney. And he fre
quently relates with pardonable pride, and a total
disregard for the story of Ananias being struck dead
for telling an evening cablegram, that on the memorable
mom when the Little Corporal was sent home on his
ear, Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington, rode in
front of his gallant troops, and called out in stentorian
tones: Is Mick Moloney present?” “ He is,” said
the intrepid brave. “ Then.” cried the Duke, o U
Bandmann with his back up, “ 'tis well; let the fight
begin. From 5 a.m. until the bugle called all hands
to prayers at night, Michael gallantly defended the
tail board of the hindmost baggage wagon from all
assailants, and when he was at last found lying under a
fence covered with wounds and pieces of broken cheese
and biscuits it was noticed that one hand proudly held
aloft ‘the flag that braved a thousand years,” whilst
the other grasped a paper upon which was printed in
big typt. Ask for Wolfe’s Aromatic Schnapps—and be
sure yon get the right brand.”
I noticed some charnnng things in ladies’ long
sleeved boots and thunder-and-lightning stockings
the last windy day I did the block, but, as the wearers
didn t ask me to give them special mention, perhaps I
had better change the subject.
The C HITECH op England Recoed is getting 1
reckless. With the voice of a clarion it proclaims that
— All clergymen sending the names of dx subscribers
to the .Record will be placed on the free list ” Ever
since this notice appeared clergymen have been fright-
ened even to mention the name of the paper to their
parishioners, for fear they should be thought guilty of
endeavouring by means of puffing the Record to secure
a competence.
Of course I am fully aware that every man in
this world is quite as honest as another, especially if
he s a politician, hut now that we have a full account of
the Hanlan v. Trickett race, I am afraid that some men
are so to speak a little more so. Trickett had the best
trainer and keenest judge of condition in the world
and yet he is brought to the post “ thin, pale and
haggard." He hid for a steerer a man who knew the
Thames from top to bottom, and yet he seems to have
now and then pulled himself into difficulties. It has
also been asserted (and not yet contradicted) that
Kelly s advice to friends out here was to back Hanlan.
that s the style of a friend a man can bet his boots on—
no favoritism, or “ going for the stable through thick
and thin with him, but he deals out what the
Egyptians called * the straight griffin" with an honesty
of purpose that would shame even a leading politician.
Personally, I am quite certain Trickett did his level
best, and so did Kelly, but I also think some one ought
te have a big testimonial presented to him—or. at
least, a gun. *
„ S’ Taylor is £ oic g it. He has a story—
Ker-nme in the Be-lud"—running in the Mddgbi:
Independent. It is really a very funny tale. This is
how they talk: —“ Oh, my son, my son,” moaned the
There ia many a showy streamer
Floating out from a large steamer;
And the tones are rude and loud.
Of the rough and struggling crowd.
And the boat’s big bell is clanging;
And its gangways are all banging,
While the feeble harp is twanging
Some long-forgotten air.
And amidst the minstrel’s strumming.
The hot steam is hoarsely humming,
While the company is coming.
In their costumes so bizarre !
From big ’buses they’re alighting—
Many swearing, and some fighting—
While one picnicer is tight in
The safe-keeping of the police.
With expression “ fly" and “ leary,’’
With as much as he can carry
Of bod beer and rum, comes ’Arrt.
In a "rig" that’s quite the “ cheese."
A rank weed our hero’s puffing,
While he tells how he’s been “ bluffing ”
Some blind hawker of his fruit.
He is spitting and he’s swearing;
He is proud, for he is wearing
His new “ slap-up " paget suit.
As the brave deserve the fair.
Doubtless ’Arrt’s girl is there !
She is young, if features mean,
About fifteen or sixteen.
In her fln’ry she is proud,
She is flushed and very " loud,”
And she often gives her “ chap ” —
Just in joke, of course—a slap,
While entreating that bold rover
To “ ’a done " or else “ give over,”
Or ooquettishly says “ drop it,”
Or “ Now, 'Arrt, just you stop it.”
Dots of pink bows have those doves.
Dots of cloudy cotton gloves—
Tightly bandolined-up tresses.
And such little skimpy dresses.
Here and there a greasy curl.
And behold !— that’s " 'Arrt’s girl.”
The gay music soon strikes up—
Such a well-worn set of lancers!—
And then with demoniac whoop.
Up they jump—the Demon Dancers,
How they stagger, how they reel.
How they foot it toe and heel!
And what fearful words are spoken.
And how many fans are broken!
With what funny twists and twirls
Do they dance—these giddy girls!
And some faces look disgusted,
For their "lasting" boots have " busted."
With a cry of anguish real
One will scream, “ I’ve lost my heel!”
Still with many a skip unsteady
Midst the dust and smoke they eddy—
Cap ring, stamping, shuffling, prancing,
Yet they call this horse-play "dancing !”
When they land at Chowder Bay
They begin the holiday.
Then there’s grog, and sports exciting.
With a large amount of fighting.
Stones are thrown, and windows smashed,
“ Bogus” notes are freely cashed.
On the question of apparel
’Abut’b girl begins to quarrel.
And to ’Arrt’s great delight
Arrt’s girl begins to fight.
♦ • * ♦ *
So the holiday is passed,
And when it is time at last
To be getting to North Shore
In the puffing Commodore,
’Arrt is a fearful sight
On that lovely moonlight night.
And his odour of stale beer
Seems to taint the atmosphere !
’Arrt’s girl is very quiet
After all the row and riot;
’Arrt’s girl perhaps is sighing,
’Arrt’s girl perhaps is crying;
P’raps her thoughts are sad— qui sail ?—
On the night of that wild day.
And perchance her budding sorrow
Will full-blown be on the morrow !
IN MEMORIAM —MISS DOBIE.
[Murdered, while sketching for the London Graphic
in New Zealand, by the Maori, Tuhi.'j ’
In a comer, green and shady.
Where the flowerets are gay.
Lies the sweet and gentle lady
Who so sadly passed away.
Immortelles her grave are decking.
Countless tears the sod bedew;
And, with sorrow, hearts are breaking,
As they sob a last adieu.
Oh sleep sweetly, little sister.
In thy fem-embowered home,
Where the darting sunbeams glister,
And the song-birds daily come.
Yes, poor murdered little maiden.
Though thy ashes may decay.
Thy dear memory, grief-laden.
Shall with us ne'er pass away.
January 8, 1881.


widow, “ little you dream that your words pierce me
worse than a two-edged sword.” Then, when the old
■lady wants the Crime-in-the-blooder—who rejoiced in
the historic name of Henry Louis Bertrand—to marry
the gyurl he has betrayed, and take her to Coogee, the
sister says, “ Oh, no, don’t urge him to that, mother;
he has done her harm enough already, without taking
.her out to that barbarous land where the blacks would
subject her to worse indignities. Spare her that,
brother.” However, H. L. B. proudly exclaims —this
is a tale, mind —“ I have been reading for some nights
past different newspaper reports of lectures delivered
here by Mr. Parkes and Mr. Dailey, who represent Aus-
tralia as the best country under the sun for young men
of talent and exertion.” On the whole, this is a very
fanny story, and the only thing that will, perhaps, mar
this, our favourable notice of it, in the eyes of the
author, is that perhaps he doesn’t intend it to be
>iunny.
V.
A Romance at Darling Point.
This is a comedy in two acts —with the third in
prospective. She is a lovely blonde. Not merely a
lovely blonde in the acceptance of a playwright, but a
fair woman whom nature has endowed with every
melting grace—every delicate curve that the dreamy
imagination of the most poetic sculptor could fashion
even in his rosiest dream. Imagine, then, a form full
of the poetry of grace and motion. Eyes, not of the
ordinary blue that prosaic mortals think the true ceru-
lean, but a colour in which the most delicate hues of
the summer’s sky are mixed and mingled with the deep
violet of the pansy and the fairy blue of the forget-me-
not. Her features are so evenly classical that they
seem to have been chiselled by the gods. Her hair is
the silky pile of tresses one sees in a vision, and her
mouth rivals in beauty, color, and fragrance the budding
rose of spring. And she was rich. But that is not all.
She was beloved. There was more than that. She
fondly loved in return. This is the first part. . . .
Act 2.—The scene is at Darling Point. She resides
there in a palatial residence with hdr family,
=and her family attire themselves in purple and
fine linen even at breakfast. Her lover is a
poet—or thinks he is, which is much the same. He
sings to his love and of his love; writes poetry—
phrenzied epics for, but not in, the papers. Well, it
was on the incense-breathing morn of the New Year.
They met beneath a flowing fig-tree near her residence
—clandestinely; and the more clandestinely, the more
sweetly—as we all know. As they approached each
•other he held his arms wide open, and she sank into
them. Reclining on his shoulder, she gave an upward
glance, and he responded. Their eyes met: their souls
•quivered. They engaged themselves—and their parents
knew it not. . . . This is act the second. Act the
third— well, this will probably embody a parent’s
wrath, a daughter’s tears, a bridegroom’s emotion, and
qui vivra verra.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
[FROM OUR LADY CORRESPONDENT.]
December 31, 1880.
Divine service was held in most of the churches
in Melbourne on Christmas morning. The Bishop of
Melbourne preached at St. Paul's Church, and in his
discourse brought forward the subject of “hero
worship,” so prevalent in the present day, pointing out
in eloquent language the absence of this hero worship
in the Old and New Testaments, where the lives and
deeds of the greatest heroes the world has ever known
are depicted in such perfect simplicity. A collection,
which amounted to £3B, was made for the Immigrants’
Aid Society.
Handel’s oratorio, “ The Messiah,” was given
on Christmas night at the Town Hall, by the Mel-
bourne Philharmonic Society, to an immense audience.
The principal vocalists were Mies Christian, Miss
Annie Montague, Mr. Turner, and Mr. Angus.
Mr. Caron’s Australian Band gave a concert
in the Theatre Royal the same night, and the house
was crammed.
One of the most enjoyable, though, perhaps,
quietest excursions of the season, was made to Drys-
dale, a township on the Queenscliff line, little known
even to Melbourne people. Its chief interest centres
in mineral springs on the edge of Cork) Bay, not fifty
yards from the sea shore, where magnesia, iron, sul-
phur, soda and seltzer, in close proximity to one
another, are constantly! bubbling from their natural
source. The springs and adjoining land belong to Mr.
Bates, and must prove a valuable property. Already
operations for securing and bottling the waters have
commenced, and on the cliff above a very excellent
inn is erected, where invalids can be comfortably
provided for, and enjoy the benefits of drinking the
mineral waters. Drysdale was called after two sisters
of that name, who with their companion, a Miss New-
come, were among the first settlers there. The latter
lady at one time held the position of president of the
shire, and performed the duties it entailed in a most
satisfactory manner. When she had reached the ma-
ture age of sixty years she married a Wesleyan minister
in the district, who still survives her.
As a matter of fact, there are fourteen different
places of amusement open in Melbourne each evening
this week, besides all the minor entertainments.
Mr. Nathaniel Levi chartered the Golden Crown
on Wednesday, and took 180 children attending the
West Melbourne Hebrew School, with their teachers,
to Queenscliff, where ample provision had been made
for their enjoyment, and they were each presented with
a medal which had been struck at the Exhibition in
commemoration of the event. People are discussing
the motives for Mr. Levi’s liberality a little freely;
but one cannot help thinking that if those who question
tried in like manner to reap the same reward of gratified
pleasure that our worthy citizen has done it would be
more to their praise.
The result of the matriculation examination for
the October term, 1880, was made known on Thursday
morning, instead of the 24th, as originally intended.
Of the 771 candidates, 281 passed the matriculation
and 421 passed the Civil Service examination. Six
passed the matriculation with credit, and of these six
persons three were ladies, whose names deserve to be
chronicled Annie Emily Chambers, a pupil of Mr,
Budd ; Ellon Phoebe Fidler, a South Australian; and
Agnes Morgan t Moore, of Geelong; the two last named
were both students at the Presbyterian Ladies’ College.
This result would please our English friend, Canon
Barry, who in his address at the opening of the acade-
mical season of the King’s College Lectures for Ladies,
at the Vestry Hall, Kensington, last October, advocated
a liberal (even technical) education for women, main-
t lining that the influence of women on society in the
various professions they have to pursue, the literary
influence they exercise, and the works of charity they
perform, demand the highest education, which, how-
ever, the lecturer clearly defined as quite apart from
the agitation for "women’s rights” or for “political
privileges.”
On Wednesday evening about fifty of our lead-
ing citizens entertained Mr. Brett, late Inspector of
the London Chartered Bank, at a farewell dinner at
Scott’s Hotel. Sir James McCulloch presided, and
proposed the health of their guest, who, with his
family, is shortly going to England.
A gre -t many people have left town already,
' he visitors’ lists at the different hotels at the seaside
being quite lengthy. Loutit Bay is a fashionable resort
this season. Our Premier, Mr. Berry, is, I believe,
still a visitor there.
There was a dance at Mrs. Gullet’s, Hawthorn,
and another at Mrs, Henty’s, Kew, during the week.
Several invitations are out for dances on New Year’s
which are generally very enjoyable, young people
delighting to dance the old year out and the new year
in. More serious-minded folk attend the midnight
watches at the churches.
On Thursday Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Clarke gave
a magnificent luncheon at their residence, Toorak, to a
number of distinguished guests, including the Marquis
and Morchioness of Normanby, the Earl and Countess
of Ellismere, and Lord Hervey Phipps.
Mr. Patterson has granted free passes as far as
Wodonga to the New South Wales cricketers on their
return.
A saving spirit seems to have spread itself
through the Colonies. From New South Wales comes
a new idea for economical reform, and messengers at
the Telegraph Office are henceforth to be mounted on
velocipedes instead of horses. Doubtless our Victorian
Government will adopt the same plan, as it will further
reduce the expenditure of oats, and the dismissed
horses will no doubt rejoice at a change of masters.
Mr. Eichard Goldsborough has presented the
Agricultural Society with four presentation cups, to be
competed for at the next meeting. They are of silver,
mounted in golden wheat ears, and are on view in
Buckley and Murn’s window, Bourke-street.
At the Opera House on Monday night “La Fille
du Tambour Major” was produced on a scale of wonder-
ful magnificence. The exquisitely rich dresses and
scenery are matters of conversation, and Mr. Mervin
as the Major has created quite a sensation. The pro-
grammes are got up in the style of those issued at the
Alhambra, London, and have little etches representing
the leading characters along the margins. On Tuesday
the Governor Lord Harvey Phipps, Capt. Le Patourol
and party attended, and the house was crammed as it
has been every night during the week.
A writer in a Melbourne contemporary pronoun-
ces the Duke of Manchester “ a gentleman in every way
qualified to give an unbiassed judgment upon the wines
of Victoria,” and several men about town here are
anxious to know what are the necessary requirements,
and wonder if his Grace would give them the key to
the enigma.
Our American cousins are determined to utilise
the electric light, as may be gathered from the descrip-
tion of their latest attempt in that direction from
Boston. It appears that lights of an aggregate power
of 90,000 candles have been placed on three towers of
100 feet high which serve to illuminate an extensive
15 mile area as effectively as at noon day. This in sober
reality is subduing the forces of nature to man’s use,
and turning night into day. The published account
reads like that marvellous one of the photobolist which
startled Melbourne some years ago, with this exception,
the latter was a fiction the former a fact. Tom Moore
wrote ; “ The best of all ways to lengthen our days is to
steal a few hours from the nights, my dear.” And this
poetic fancy will be realised provided the hard cash
cost of the new lights is found not more expensive than
our present dirty and deservedly abused gas.
In the matter of extravagant dress I should
think Sara Bernhardt had a formidable rival in Mrs.
Florence, an actress from the United States, at present
playing in London, who dresses “to please women.”
In one scene of the new play, “A Million,” she wears
a dress trimmed with lace valued alone at £3OOO.
Everything just now is trimmed with lace, of which
there are so many new kinds, the Languedoc and point
d’Alenson being particularly used, as they are light
looking and inxpensive.
Thursday was the hottest day of the season.
In the shade the temperature registered 103 - 4, and in
the sun 145.2.
A letter has been forwarded to the Cardinal
Archbishop of Paris by Mr. Charles L. Wood, president
of the English Church Union, expressing the sympathy
of the Protestant clergy and laity with the Catholics
in France, in the persecution their religious orders are
at present subjected to in France.
On Thursday the Commissioner of Customs re-
ceived an anonymous letter, addressed in a lady’s hand-
writing, enclosing £3, with an explanation that it was
“ conscience money for articles received under a mis-
apprehension as to the customs law.” Speculation is
rife in Melbourne as to the donor. It is evident that
Melbourne is not such a bad place after all, as even a
woman manages to retain a conscience.
At the late bazaars, the prize drawn in a lottery
by an elderly bachelor was a baby’s feeding bottle.
“Ah!" said he, handling the artificial lacteal con-
ductor, and with that ludicrous confusion of ideas in-
digenous to the Emerald Isle, “ Shure it will do nicely
for some of my grandchildren.
Mr. Chimside, of Werribee Park, has given the
employes on his station a week’s holiday, and provided
them with funds to enable them, with their wives and
families, to come to Melbourne and see the Exhibition,
and generally do the sights.
Plush is now made in all fashionable colours,
which, for the coming season, are all autumnal tints.
Handkerchief costumes will be made in woollen
material.
Long dresses are made with a plain train, and
short walking dresses have the skirts trimmed, but not
draped in the slightest.
Jerseys are still worn, with hoods, in Paris.
They are made with seams, and richly trimmed.
[FROM GRAND FLANEUR.]
The Cheviot (s.s.) took upwards of eleven hun-
dred people to Port Arlington on Boxing Day. It was
a truly delightful trip. Everyone was in good spirits,
so did not mind the chilly wind at the start. A good
band was on board, and the sailors had cleared out the
hold, so that those who liked the “light fantastic”
could amuse themselves to their heart’s content; but
what fat women, women with babies, baskets, bundles,
and umbrellas, wanted among the dancers was a puzzle.
However, some folks want to see everything, even at
the risk of their necks. No provisions were obtain-
able on board; each party had to bring their own
food; but drink was sold at two bars. The captain,
mate, and engineer had their respective friends, and
these were treated to the ship’s best stores. The mate’s
was a real, nice, large party, and the al fresco lunch was
much envied by numbers who remained on board in
preference to dining on the beach. The lively proceed-
ings caused great amusement to some lookers-on. One
lady seemed to keep the whole party in fits of laughter
by wishing them at every turn “ A merry Christmas
two spent their time filling their pockets with cherries
from a case; one barrister, evidently a teetotaller, was
seen to drink six bottles of ginger-ale at dinner and two
cups of tea afterwards! Where could he have put all
this fluid aliment? But it does not matter —Christmas
comes but once a year—thoucb if the whole party had
imbibed accordingly, the mate’s pocket would have been
considerably lighter.
The daughter of a Sydney Judge went to call on
some friends of her father’s in Melbourne. She had
never seen them before, and imagine her amazement
when the four daughters of the house each appeared in
turn armed with a birthday book and querist’s album
and requested her to write in every one. She will leave
her father to call on his own friends in future.
“La Fille du Tambour Major ” is a splendid
opera, and magnificently put upon the stage. It is a
credit to everyone connected with it. The scenery,
dresses, acting, and singing are superb, and it ought to
have a long run. How proud Lyster would be could he
see the crowded and delighted audiences each evening !
The stage-box remains empty, and tells its own sad
tale.
“The lady with the private income” in Bal-
rauald will be pleased to hear that the movements of
the s.s. Norfolk are very uncertain. She may unpack
her trunks with safety, and turn her atttentions to her
precious little Tommy for another season.
At a station in Eiverina, where no woman is
located, a lady’s hat and parasol, &c. were noticed the
o’her day carefully concealed on an upper shelf in a
room of the stockeeper’s residence. Oh! James, why
is this thus ?
A governess lately leaving her situation told a
gentleman friend on the station she had no intention of
returning. She expected him to express regret, and
imagine her astonishment to hear him say, “Well, your
successor may be nicer than your are, but better have
the devil you know than the devil you don’t!” Now,
was this complimentary or otherwise ?
It is stated here that the daughter of your dis-
tinguished lady critic, who is also well-known in this
city, is to be married, the first week in January, to a
professor of music.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
[BY THE CHILDREN OF THE SUN.]
The newspaper world here has been in a mild
state of excitement lately, the cause being the depar-
ture of “ Boss ” Syme, of the Age, for Europe. In the
usual manner of such things, the “ Boss ” was “ fed ”
by his servants, literary and mechanical, and his
friends and admirers ; and, of course, he harangued in
answer to the post-prandial gushing toast and ha-
rangued in no uncertain manner either. He pointed
out (and that with considerable truth, too,) that he
had become a martyr to the People’s cause, &c., &c., as
had Higinbotham, Berry, et hoc genus omne. Mind this
Latin phrase aint Syme’s. He didn’t refer in kindly
terms to the big Opposition Rag, beyond saying that
through its purse-driving tactics it had made his own
broadsheet a commercial success. I believe this, and
if The Argus only keeps on the Evan tenor of its way
the “Boss” will yet become a bloated squatter and a
K.C.M.G. The Age, in the absence of David, is to be
managed by the two Georges’ Syme and Windsor, the
Editor -with George Collins Levey, C.M.G., as referee.
The latter individual has become so universal an
authority that it is on the cards that he will yet be-
come Editor of The Argus. And, while on the subject
of Syme and The Age, I may tell you it is confidently
reported that the chief object of the visit home is to
make arrangements to bring out The Age as a business
rival to The Argus. The idea is a bold one, but not
beyond realisation, judging from the present state of
affairs.
Matters are apparently “ mixed ” at The Argus
Office. Professor Hearn, its leading writer and au-
thority on constitutional law, was not present at the
annual dinner given to the staff of the journal. It is
said that his views and those of The Argus on the
subject of Education are not first-cousins—the Pro-
fessor inclining “too muchee” to Sir John O’Shan-
uassy’s side o’ the question.
There is a mighty struggle going on about the
vacant billet of Public Librarian. Archer, one of our
Black Wednesday dismissals, and l&te of your city, has
been nominated by the Trustees, but the Government
won’t have him—nominally because of some compen-
sation he received, but virtually because he don’t suit
their ideas. The Age is trying to billet Marcus
Clarke (now Sub-Librarian), one of their contributing
staff, and it is said that one of the last acts Sir
Redmond Barry did was to advocate Clarke’s claim,
and he was no mean judge !! !
There are snobs and snobs, but for pure snob-
bishness commend me to our Governor’s son. Lord
Hervey Phipps, and His Excellency’s Secretary, Mr.
La Patrouel, commonly called Captain albeit his
military experiences have been limited to the militia
meek and mild. These two gentlemen—Oh ! Thackeray,
where are you ?—not liking a certain railway carriage
apportioned to them the other day, and preferring
another in which sat four individuals, not notables,
impudently had the said four turned out of their seats.
It is this sort of thing that raises the ire of the people,
and gives a living to the trading politician.
Eeport has it that there is to be a Society
journal started here shortly under the guiding wisdom
of Mr. Mortimer Franklyn, the nominal Editor of The
Victorian Review —the real Editor being James Smith,
Prince of Victorian Journalists. It is to be modelled
on the lines of The World, but where the fashionable
items are to come from is the puzzle—we have no elite
here unless that of coin, and it is as a body so vulgar
that to record its doings in print would be to make it a
laughing stock. Then again we have no “ professional
beauties ” there not being a sufficient number of
wealthy men with taste amongst us to keep such
butterflies going, irrespective of their husbands.
Longfellow sings somewhere that the “ lives of
great men still remind us,” &c. So they do ; and I am
reminded that the career of a literary individual in this
city is a most remarkable one. He started making a
livelihood as barber in London. Then he appeared and
disappeared in New York for the term of a year or two.
Then he made a conquest of a fair one in California.
Then he travelled alone throughout Europe—the said
fair one waiting wearily for him in her native country.
Finally he lighted up this scene by his presence, and
ingratiating himself with those of the purse, estab-
lished a most creditable periodical. It is said that he
nearly made a conquest number two, but somehow it
did not come off. Here is a skeleton for you to build a
three vol. novel upon.
This is not bad for a new country where inno-
cence is supposed to reign supreme;—Two young
Englishmen with unlimited command of money re-
cently visited these shores. They became acquainted
with a well-known and handsome opera singer, a burly
bookmaker not unknown to fame either, and a theatri-
cal agent. These three kindly relieved the two inno-
cents of some £4OOO while passing the evenings, con-
templating knaves and aces. But this was not the
finish. The theatrical agent, wanting money to enable
him to run a nigger show in England, bethought him of
securing the confidence and the money of the young
gullibles by telling them in confidence that they and he
had been robbed by his quondam partners—the opera
singer and bookmaker. The trick succeeded so admir-
ably that £2OOO were obtained for the contemplated tour
by the ingenious agent, while bis old associates were
treated with silent contempt by the injured young
Englishmen.
And while talking about the same monied sons
of Britain, I may mention that their weakness for ballet
girls and green-room scenes was so strong that another
theatrical agent loaned £2500 from them to bring out a
company, which is now performing here. Unfortun-
ately the birds have flown to European shores. But the
very next time I hear of others like them I’ll earn their
friendship, and send them on to you to advise and
amuse.
If it were not for variety of taste, where would
this world be ? It is a positive fact that the wife of a
wealthy merchant in this city recently fell desperately
in love with one of the Georgia Minstrels. So ardent
was this affection that she loaded the man of dark hue
with costly presents. He, although a married man,
could not resist the temptation, so fled from it by
going home. The extraordinary part of all is that the
husband is ignorant of the folly, though it is talked
about. But I suppose sooner or later the storm will
burst, and then will be proved for the millionth time
that May and December do not mate satisfactorily.
The Exhibition organ has proved itself an
astounding White Elephant. Some 5000 people were
kept waiting last evening to hear it, but after listening
to God Save the Queen being squeaked out on one stop,
they departed, despite the fact that Tarbrush Woods
came forward to explain how matters were not what
they ought to be. Woods is great on reports, and
“ brakes” of all kinds.
Everyone in Victoria is complaining about the
bad times, and the Government say they have no money
yet. They have spent £6OOO on the Exhibition organ,
which won’t play, when they could have had a similar
one made at home —which would play—for £3OOO. This
is protection with a vengeance.
It is said that the Eev. Mr. Torrance, a Church
of England clergyman here, known as an amateur
musician, has written a grand march, which he can’t
get anyone to perform. An offer has, it is alleged,
been made to a celebrated street organ grinder—by
name “ Ballarat Joe”—to produce the piece. Public
expectation is on tiptoe at the result 1
George Collins Levey hasn’t got the Govern-
ment Printership yet. Berry is waiting to get the
Christmas holidays over, and commence a new year
before perpetrating any more jobs. G. C. L., as Gov*
eminent Printer and adviser to the Age, will be hard to
hold back if ever a Presidentship is established in this
colony.
There is a finance broker in town who dares do
anything. His latest, when getting bills renewed is to
keep the original document so that the drawer in due
time finds that he has to meet not only the renewal but
the original. Of course, only a fool would be so
caught, but unfortunately there are many fools,
especially among those who borrow money at 50 per
cent.
The great event of the past week has been the
Intercolonial Cricket Match; and though your men
lost the game they played the better of the two sides.
Evans was in splendid form with the ball and bat and
in the field. Massie also batted grandly, many thinking
his style superior to any yet shown by a colonial bats-
man, and it is at times as near perfection as possible.
Old Dave also played a fine steady innings at the right
time. On the Victorian side, Allan and Elliott deserve
the most credit, for their play saved the match. Mid-
winter, Mackay, and Young Edwards also showed up
well, and it is a shame that the latter has been left out
of the combination eleven. He is a wonder, being good
with the ball and bat and in the field. Charlie Banner-
man’s day has gone, and Horan and Campbell; played
very poor cricket. Evans very properly won the
trophies for bowling and fielding, the batting one going
to Dave Gregory, so you have taken the honors though
you have lost the win.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
[BY ONE OF US.]
The Mackat (Queensland) Standard has issued a
Christmas supplement in good style.
The Hon. H. P. Beor was engaged to be mar-
ried at the time he committed suicide.
The Christmas issue of Brisbane Punch is a
most creditable literary and artistic production.
Eighty ladies attended the railway ball at
Townsville. Twenty-five per cent, were belles.
The Mayor of Bowen is a publican, and has the
sign “ Ice” in his window bottom upwards. A wag says
he does not know the difference.
Among the provender at the opening of the
Townsville railway was a case 6 x 3, 3 x 2, 2 x 10 full of
assorted sandwiches. Those in the middle had a
strong flavour.
Townsville has the great municipal novelty of
the continent —the Mayor wearing a fringe, and his
aldermen struggling to imitate him. The fashion is to
be relinquished by the fair sex.
The tallest and the smallest man were at the
railway picnic in Townsville. When speechifying, one
had to sit down and the other stand on a case. They
were both Charters Towers men.
Until lately, half the population of Bowen were
in the habit of going down the jetty to meet the weekly
steamer. The bar trade on board has been stopped,
and now only intending passengers go down.
The following telegram was lately despatched
from one Queensland port to the next“ My wife ran
away with your husband by the steamer last night;
meet them on arrival.” I should like to have seen the
meeting.
Falstaff, the Bowen commercial traveller, was
until recently anxious to lend money to officers of the
Telegraph Department, on their personal security, at
60 per cent. He lent some, and is now a sadder and a
wiser man.
Since the Torres Straits, steamers left off run-
ning, gin has been scarce in the Northern Queensland
ports. There has, however, been no falling off in the
Customs revenue from that article to account for the
short supply.
No ball-room could have been more prettily
decorated than was the one in Townsville at the rail-
way ball. It was trimmed with flags, evergreens, and
flowers, looped with tissue paper cuttings. The de-
signer was one of the last new arrivals, who expects an
offer of marriage after the aff jir.
It takes the municipality of Townsville to get
up a spree. The aldermen consist of a miller (though
no baker), a lemonade and cordial maker,, four store-
keepers, some wine and spirit merchants, and a
butcher and a stationer. The next public spree is the
waterworks, on which solemn occasion the hotels in-
tend closing.
The proprietors of the Telegraph (Brisbane)
newspaper presented Christmas and New Year dowctur
to every individual on the paper, from the editor,
manager, &c., down to the devils and runner boys, with-
out exception, as an expression of satisfaction, at the
success of the paper during the past year. The staff, I
need hardly say, are very appreciative, and are sorry
that Christmas comes but once a year.
The Great Northern Eailway was opened on
Monday, the 20th ult. A thousand persons attended
the spree, which was held at Reidsville. Everything
passed off successfully, and great credit is due to the
Mayor of the town, who presided over the luncheon,
and had the affair carried out in. a business-like
manner. The ball in the evening was even more suc-
cessful than the picnic. Over sixty couples attended.
This did not occur in South-Western Queens-
land. The police sergeant wanted an additional con-
stable, and had made many fruitless applications to
head quarters for one. There lived in this town a pub-
lican who had a deal of political influence. A shepherd
arrived in town with a cheque for £l2O, and was robbed
of it the same night. The thief was arrested the same
day, the cheque recovered, the prisoner remanded to
the next District Court, and the shepherd bound over
to appear as a witness. The political publican called
on the sergeant with the following proposition : “ You
send the shepherd to my house to stay till Court day,
and I'll use my influence to get you another hand.” An
agreement was come to, and faithfully carried out on
both sides. After the Court, the shepherd’s bill
at the pub. amounted to £llB.
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
Scotch-College-Ireland, of Hobart,, goes to Mel-
bourne to see if he can get hia school affiliated to the
Melbourne University! What next ?-
You can get a cup of coffee at Nissen’s Cafe,
Melbourne, if you wait half-an-hour and risk the chance
of the milk running out.
Ireland, mining director, schoolmaster, and
actor, has been dabbling in it again. Why should such
talent, such art, and such a mind be thrown away on
such mining speculations 2
“ Lyric,” in the Tasmanian Mail, was very
rough the other day on Richardson, the secretary of the
Board of Education. He bowled Richardson out on a
flagrant Latin error, in one of his advts. in the Mer-
cury, Hobart —much to the delight of Tasmanian
schoolboys then in for examinations under the Board,
who are usually "sat on” by the somewhat would-be
officious secretary.
An amateur theatrical company is forming in
Tasmania for a tour of the island. The present mem-
bers consist almost exclusively of schoolmen. Among
the musicians is a promising young Hobart player.
Mr. Neitrim takes the management, and the company
are endeavouring to engage the services of Mr. A. Ire-
land (late of the collegiate school, Hobart), as agent.
Under such management the company ought to have a
show in our little isle.
The Eev. E. Close, who has lately been quarrel-
ling with the Council of the Melbourne University re
the dean of the faculty of law “ plucking” him in a law
examination for the LL.B. degree, is a graduate of the
University of Oxford. Some years ago he held a living
at Woodstock, near Oxford, and was one of the parties
in the Esther Hill affair in 1876, which caused a good
deal of excitement in Oxford a few months after com-
memoration. Mr. Close is a good classic and frequent
contributor to the Victorian Review.
A certain “ attendant” at the Melbourne Public
Library is somewhat behind his duties. If you invoke
his services to find any high-class intellectual book—
e.g., Todhunter’s Conflict of Studies—you generally
are kept waiting for half-an-hour until he finds his cata-
logue, and then get the somewhat ambiguous reply that
the book is on the “ Education" shelf, but he cannot
find it. A certain assistant librarian is very officious,
and the red-tape business done in the M.P.L. is aston-
ishing. Surely the Council of the Library could place
the " attendant” business la better hands.
TASMAN.


Public Compa
COMMERCIAL
BANKINi
SYDNEY.
Established 18
Incorporated by Act of C
Capital, £550,000. Reserve
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. Job
Knox, Esq.; L. W. Levy, Esq
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , ]
Auditors ;
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. R.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johusoi
Messrs. Cape and Wes
Head Office —George-st
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G.
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, Gee
Oxford-street
London Office— 39 Lomb;
Directors: J. A Youl, Esq., C.'
Esq.; F. H. Hogs
Manager: Nathaniel (
Branches in New South Wal
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Be
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral
Camp bell town, Cannon bar, Carcoa
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, C
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Fort
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gunda
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molo
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twi
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narar
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Q
Richmond, Shoa/haven, Singlet»
Tumbarumha, Wagga Wagga, Wi
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, W
Windsor, Wmgham, Wollongoni
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Bris
Maryborough, and Rockhat
Aobncibs in the C<
Victoria : The Bank of Victori
Australasia, Colonial Bank
Commercial Bank of Austral)
South Australia : The Bank ot
National Bank of Australas
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Die
New Zealand : National Bank ol
Asencies beyond the
London : The Loudon and West]
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Unioi
Manchester: The Manchester an
Ibklan d ; The Belfast Bankiui
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank
San Francisco: The Bank of I
Messrs, Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso ; Banco Nacionale de
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Mor
India. China and Singapore: T
India. Australia and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Loi
Cetlon : The Chartered Mercan
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and C
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grant
advances on approved security,
fixed deposits, negotiates produce
issues drafts or letters of credit, i
lects bills payable at any of the i
elsewhere, at current rates; oollec
in public companies, and inheres
for its customers in the iuvestmei
ties in Great Britain or in the cole
to undertake the agency of Banks
be mutually agreed upon.
I HE MUTUAL ASSURAK
VICTORIA (LIM1
Established a.d.
NEW SOUTH WALE
9 Wynyard-street, !
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Ch
Ebeuezer Vickery, E
Andrew Drysdale, Ei
This Society is established for L
granting of Annuities and Endowi
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the enti
Society at every distribution ther
LOANS granted on Mortgage or
combined with Life Assurance.
CHRISTMAS SHIPMENT OF Fi
Ex Orient steamships LUSITANA and
Peapes and Shaw are now raak
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the £
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
FOE
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
PAY A VISIT
OF
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
LADIES’
SILVER
AND JET
BRA CELBTS
MOROCCO BAGS
woodwork Boxes
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NB PLUS LEATHER DESI
ASSORTED SCENT CASKS
Royal CABIN El’S OF Gah
PERSIAN FII’l’ED WORK CAS
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARS
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING i
Gold wall and corner bra
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET C
LADIES’PANS FOR DRESS OR PRO
SILVI-R THIVIBLES AND DRESS H
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF
CRIBBAQE BOARDS AND KOUL]
LAOIE'’ Fitted TRAVELLING
Public Comps
THE AUSTRALIAN JOIN
Incorporated by Act of C
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with i
£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund, £17
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., 0!
George A. Murray, Esq. i Jere
William B. Walford, Esq. [ Will
Moses Moss, E
General Manac
Vincent Wauostrochl
Head Office, Stj
City and Suburban B
Haymarket J Redtem
London Office—18 King Wili
Branches throughout the Col
Wales and Queensland, and Age
Colonies, Great Britain, Americi
&c„ &c.
THE BANK UNDERTAKES ALL G
BUSINESS.
T
HE MERCANTILE HAN
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...,
DIRECTORS;
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.H
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A Wilsc
SECRETA RY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Gc
LONDON BANK!
The National Provincial Ban!
London Office, 30, Great 1
Director—Edward Chap
Agent—G. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Bi
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mi
other produce shipped to England I
CORNWALL EIRE AND JS
J ANCE COMPAJS
CAPITAL. JS100.C
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D Al
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STRI
SIDNEY.
The national mi
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTK/>
Established 1861
The only Life Office in the Austro
has been conducted on PUREE'S
GIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pii
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Bi
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made
belongs to the policyholders, and is <
every THREE YEARS. The bon
been exceptionally large.
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, S^
ADV
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINES7,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Bokoes, etc.,
IN STOCK.
7m
W
5)
4&L
GALVANISED TANKS MADE, FEON 2*d. PER GALLON.
6ft. BATHS, 35s., WITH PLUGS.
GALVANISED IRON AND TIN MANUFACTORY
631 GEORGE STREET.
THE LARGEST AND THE CHEAPEST WHOLESALE
MANUFACTURER IN THE COLONY.
Jjl L 0 U E
SUPERFINE.
Fine Household and Seconds, Wheat Meal Superior
quality, at the lowest prices. Bran, Pollard, Cow
Meal. Pi<r Feed
AIZENA FLOUR.
WHITE and TELLOW made from the choicest
grain, suitable for all constitutions, Superior to aiy
yet offered to the public, in 71b bags or larger parcels,
very cheap. Sold by grocers, flour dealers, and at the
manufactory, COMMERCIAL FLOUR MILLS, Sus-
sex-street, Sydney. JOHN WHAENE.
1
T. B U E F I T T,
HOUSE AND LAND SALESMAN,
353, GEORGE STREET,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PRIVATELY OR BY AUCTION.
Australian wine.—caemichael’s
PORPHYRY, equal to the finest Rhine Hock.
Awarded First Prize at the Garden Palace.
Pints, in 3 doz. cases, 12s. 6d. doz.; quarts, 1 and
2 doz. cases, 21s. doz. H. S. BIRD and CO.,
Agents, Circular Quay.
January 8, 1881.


1
Tobacconists
J
AMES EYE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Baby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
-X
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, DELICIOUS.
Sr
a.
's.
Manufactured by
T. S A YW E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
rji HO S. J. BO W N & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHEBS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
PRESENTS.
I
/
%
S'
N
2=3
i
A. J. HUFTON,
636 GEOBQE-STEEET SOUTH.
Cheapest House in Town.
N ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT
VISIT
o
r
FOB GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INVESTMENTS
PIANOS, ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand P anos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENEEBEIN, Jon.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
Chemists and Druggists
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Mann,
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
681 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’ HALL,
It OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Park Cosher.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
; A POT HE C_Ag
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY
to the Cure of
ENLARGEMENT of the LIVER
WITH ULCERATION, &c.
To Sims and Parkes,
Sirs, —If it is any benefit to you, or assurance to any
one who may place themselves in your hands at any
future time you are at liberty to use my name and that
of my daughters in connection with the very efficient
way in which you treated and CURED me of Enlarge-
men of the Liver and Spleen, withal' the accompanying
pains and aches. For FOUR or FIVE YEARS I had
been a great sufferer and my household duties had to
be entirely seen to by my family. I employed several
skilful physicians, but my complaint did not yield to
their treatment. In fact, I got so low as to be near
death’s door, when the medical assistant I had been
having gave me up as incurable. I consider it a
fortunate circumstance that threw me, os a Last
Resort, on the herbalists, and I am now a living testi-
monial to the efficacy of your treatment.
E. MOORE,
Grose-Street, Camperdown, N.S.W.
October 27, 1879.
SIMS AND PARKES,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Treat all Diseases, and forward medicine and advice
to all parts of the colonies, on receipt of Cash and Post
240 GEORGE °ItREEI\ I ' opposite 8 Charlotte-place,
Sydney.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson's American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S. 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
TATTERSALL’S CUP.—Senior Wrangler’s
class now open. 500 students. Fee—£ 1. First,
£200; second, £B5; third, £4O. Amongst competitors,
£5O, and non-competitors, £75. All net. Letters only,
with stamps for reply and result. “ Senior Wrangler,”
care H. Oliphant Paton, Carlton Club Hotel, Elizabeth,
street, Sydney."
Chemists and Druggists
lAKE NO MORE PILLS
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLIN LOZENGES.
Do yon SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few do-=es of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
W Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now l>e
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stillness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonial a from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and ( aily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
c
ENTRAL PHARMAC
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
Y,
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
». 1 * "
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia: —
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
ut a Worthless Imitation may be forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of fts durability, is
GUARANTEED FOR FIVE YEARS.
Reduced Price List ;
No. I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4.
No. 2. —For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6.
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYABD-LANK. SYDNEY.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Pounders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Business Announcements
W.
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
msa
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, PleyeTs, Anchor's,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney,
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART
260 and 262 GEORGE-STEEET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blac
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
101
Al^Eipß&Sojsf
UEPHY AND
IMPORTERS OP
SON,
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperbangers’ Canvas.
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., Ac.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT. READY FOR USE. ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31, GEORGE STREET WEST.
E.
MASON,
DRAUGHTSMAN
ASD
Engraver on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
I
EON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Pitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPOEirP,
608 George-street.


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE % RETAIL IMPORTERS .
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS,
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
CO
CD
cc
CD
in
OUR C
(
j We
Only th
CO
Boys’ ai
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
T
HE NEW LIGHT !
TI
HOYLE and HC
Bond-street Sto
SOLE AGENTS f
ALPHA GAS MAC
beg to inform the public that thi
is now on view at their warehc
close to the Exchange, and an ins'
THE ALPHA GAS Mi
SUITABLE for all PRIVATE B
SUITABLE for MANSIONS and
SUITABLE for STEAMERS and
SUITABLE for PUBLIC HALL
SUITABLE for LIGHTING TO
THE ALPHA GAS Mi
BETTER than COAL GAS becax
costing far less
BETTER than COAL GAS becai
light, and, therefore, less j
burned
BETTER than COAL GAS, be.
faster than it is consumed
BETTER than KEROSENE, be
DANGER of an explosion
BETTER than KEROSENE, bee
lamps is required
BETTER than KEROSENE beca
aive smell.
THE ALPHA GAS MA
SUPERIOR to anything of the ki:
Ordinary Gasfittings ax
The ALPHA GAS MACHINE
ING TOWNS; it is also used on
TRAINING SHIPS in England.
TESTIMONIALS from Residen
have the machine at work can be 1
ear The Public are warned aga
tions. This is the only economical
STANDARD
FIRE & MARINE INSURAN(
ZEALAND.
Capital £l
FIRE AND MARINE RISKS
LOWEST CURRENT
ROYLE AND HC
Agents.
ASTERN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND AI
Direct special attention to thei
CHOICE TEA!
j A good useful tea
family tea
A really first-class tea
A flue blend of Indian and
Finest blended tea, uusurj
Finest Indian pekoe
Superior coffee
c
CABLES AND ANDERSON.
w
721 GEORGE S
HAYMARKEI
H. A E
* PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL COMMISS
343 and 345 Kent-street, nej
SOLE AGENT for the undermentr
R. Whittingham & Co.’s Londc
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria (
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria B:
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toil
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Cor
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum I
Sauce.
313 and 345 KENT-STREET, nea
o NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTof§OAP.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
aI *AY S
TRADE MARK
£sg
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &e.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO„
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NELLSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WHAT IS THE RESULT of importing our
own goods and paying cash for them ?
I DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our customers the best possible value?
j And WHERE ARE THOSE who will not take advan-
l tage of the inducements offered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special month,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required.
C FOR COLLECTION AND VARIETY, The Royal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for itself
a lasting reputation. PARTIES DESIROUS of securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
, double—Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies’ and gentle-
men’s, with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enambled, brass mounted, black and gold,
also flowered, with the new extending foot rail —Patent
Sanitory Spiral Spring or Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
tresses, recommended by all doctors—Toilet Sets,
single and double, in all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites —Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards —Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
j materials —An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
i and Girandoles, in very pretty frames —Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre, Card, and Occasional Tables—Papier-
| mache goods of every description—Ladies’ Musical
Companions—-Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
1 Jewel Caskets—Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
about one hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
i and Fish Globes—Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Services
in new patterns—A splendid assortment of Marble
1 Clocks and Bronzes to match— Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from—Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables—Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets—
Flower Pots andSpecimeu Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, Inkstands, Paper
Weights, &c., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
THE SHOW-ROOMS LOOK MAGNIFICENT.
Separate tables being laid out with
SPECIALITIES FOE THE CHRISTMAS SEASON.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling’, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beautiful
MILLINEEY BONNETS, from 12s 6d, MILLINERY
HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COSTUMES from
3s lid. Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d, Ladies Corsets
from Is lid. Ladies’ White Cotton Hose from per
.pair. Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves, Fischus, Baby-
linen, Underclothing, &c., cheaper than any other
house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
Nothing is wholly bad. Even a dark lantern
has its bright side.
It is said that there is no tail to the Anstralian
Eleven. At that rate their demon must be fearfully
incomplete.
Lung and liver pads were unknown a century
ago, but the foot-pad managed to keep things in a
healthy state of excitement.
When a stump orator said Ireland’s star was now
in the ascendant, a Melesian bystander exclaimed “ It
must be her shooting star, thin.”
Latest from the war in South America : “You
are^licked! ” said the Chilians. “ You can’t Peruve
it! ” defiantly reply the bark manufactures.
Dora —“ When I get married I shall marry a
brave fellow like Jack the Giant Killer.” Amy—
“ When I grow up I’m going to marry a girl.”
An illiterate colonel, about to join his regiment,
scoured the country to find what he colled a hors de
oombat, which he thought was French for war-horse.
_ “ Who runs this cheese,” asked a customer of
his grocer. “ Oh, I’m running it myself, I s’pose.” “ I
didn’t know. There are a great many skippers aboard.”
“ A thing of beauty,” remarked the dentist,
looking in the patient’s mouth, ‘‘is a jaw for ever. A
guinea, please.” P.S.—That is what makes it so
beautiful.
The man who has money in the bank and plenty
in his pocket can wear a straw hat four weeks longer
than the one who is in debt for his last week’s board.
Why is it P
An old salt, when asked how far north he had
ever been, replied that he had been so far north that
“ the cows, when milked beside a red-hot stove, gave
ice-cream.”
An article in an exchange is headed, “ Suicide
of a Locomotive.” Owing to a “ tender ” attachment,
probably. It should have been “ switched ” oftener
when young.
An exchange, speaking of a political meeting,
says:—“ John Lucas sat on the chairman’s right hand.”
That chairman’s hand must resemble a jelly fish after a
log had been rolled over it.
Mistress—“ Well, Mary, and what do you
think of Melbourne P” Marj’ (who was born and brought
up in the bush) —“ Oh! it’s lovely, m’m, but I couldn’t
see much of it for the houses.”
A rich but parsimonious old gentleman, on
being taken to task for his uncharitableness, said:
“ True, I don’t give much, but if yon only knew how it
hurts me when I give anything, you wouldn’t wonder.”
“ You are now one,” said the minister to the
happy pair he had just tied together with a knot they
could never undo with their teeth. “Which oneP '■
asked the bride. “You will have to settle that for
yourself,” said the dominie. It was subsequently
settled with a broomstick.
A soldier who was always noted for being late at
appointments, one night got drunk. On his way home
he fell into a newly-dug grave (he having to cross a
churchyard), and went to sleep. In the morning, when
he awoke, he just heard the faintest sound of the
morning bugle. “Just my luck,” he remarked. “Late
for the resurrection.”
“ Well, Jemimaran,” said a tap-loafer to a little
girl, “ Wot’s yer father doing now ?” “ Oh he’s been
enjoying hisself,” was the reply, “ he’s bin drunk since
Friday, lost his billet on Toosday, hammered mother
yesterday, and they took him to the lock-up last
night.” “Ah, I guessed as much. Last time I see
him he told me he meant to have a regular merry
Christmas this year.”
Not long ago an Irishman applied to an over-
seer in a Tyne shipyard to be put on a job. He was in-
formed that his request could not be complied with;
but as Pat continued to gaze at an anchor which was
lying in the vicinity, the foreman repeated his reply
that there was no work for him and advised him to go
away. “ Devil a bit will I stir, sorr, till I see the man
that’s going to use that pick!”
This is how some girls sing : —
When the mo-hon is mi-hildly-ly bee-heaming
O’er the ca-halm and si-hi-lent se-e-e-e.
Its ra-dyance so-hoftly stre-heam-ing,
Oh ! ther-hen. oh ther-heu.
I thee-hink
Hof thee-he,
I thee-hink,
I thee-hink,
I thee-hink,
I thee-he-he-hehehehehe-hink hof thee-e-e-e-e.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times he glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
** Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
REST.
A lovely child in its cradle lay,
Asleep at the close of the weary day ;
And I thought, as I left on its lips a kiss.
What a beautiful painting of rest is this!
But a tear streamed out of the sleeper’s eye.
And across its bosom there ran a sigh;
And I sighed as I bent me over its breast,
“Yes, this is sleep, but it is not rest —
Not this, not this.”
The Recent Divorce Case.
“ Viator” sends us the following :
Women and lawyers, it is clear.
Things closely similar appear;
The one keeps babbling on for ever.
While quiet is the other never.
The one exults to give vexation.
Peace is the other's detestation.
Both, disguised are wont to go.
While both alike no mercy show.
Bribes and presents both will win.
Both strip their suitors to the skin ;
One is a gulf profound, the other
A chaos, doomed men’s wits to smother.
Both grasp for all, but give to none;
Both ruin those who to them run.
The one, to stir up fire rejoices.
Flames to light, the other’s choice is—
The one is fond of endless strife.
And discord is the other’s life.
Then, mankind, beware of their sway.
No match for them display:
Their schemes will always miscarry
If you with them refuse to tarry.
January 8, 1881.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Hon. W. B. Dailey will leave for England in
February.
Jndge Fancett proceeds to Europe in the
Hydaspes on leave of absence.
The Rev. Dr. Steel, who has just returned from
his tour in England, is in much improved health.
The Council of the Melbourne University have
elected Mr. Girdlestone to the office of Lecturer on
Surgery, in place of Dr. Barker, who did not retire.
Mr. A. K. Smith, one of the ablest debaters in
the Victorian Assembly, and a man long and favorably
known to political life in the sister colony, is dying.
According to the London papers, there was
some foundation for the nimor that the Queen was
seriously thinking of abdicating in favor of the Prince
of Wales.
The last news from Fiji left everybody happy
and contented. Even Sir Arthur Gordon's civil
servants denounce him as much as anybody, now that
he is gone.
Henry Kendall’s “ Songs from the Mountains ”
are being reprinted by Gibbs Shallard and Cos. The
objectionable poem has been eliminated for one of even
greater merit.
It is stated in Christchurch, N.Z., that Mr.
Henry Law, at present manager of the Bank of New
Zealand at Newcastle, New South Wales, will be the
new manager at Christchurch.
Mr. R. A. Proctor, the astronomer, says that
this is his last lecturing tour. He goes home by way
of the United States and Canada.
Mrs. Oliphant’s new story, “ He that Will Not
when He May,” has been published, and has met with
the most flattering notice from the critics.
Mr. S. H. Pearce, “ the father” of Randwick,
Mr. Stuchbnry, an old resident, and his Lordship the
Bishop are all dangerously ill in that locality.
Sir Arthur Gordon had a peculiar way of doing
justice down in Fiji. He made one white man prose-
cute another for perjury with regard to some land, and
then, before the trial came off, he divided the land
between them.
The paper read by Dr. P. N.
Manning before the Royal Society on
“ The Causation and Prevention of
Insanity" has proved of great interest
and value and is now being published
in pamphlet form.
Mr. Neville Cayley, an artist,
who has settled in Sydney whose
forte is animal subjects, has exhibited
some capital sketches in water colors.
He gives a faithful picture, of many
well-known and richly-plumaged birds
of Australia.
Sir Hercules Robinson was, ac-
cording to cable, to leave London im-
mediately for Cape Town. He has
had frequent interviews with Earl
Kimberley relative to South African
affairs. Sir Hercules’s task is a very
difficult ohe, requiring great diplo-
matic tact and firmness.
The particulars disclosed in
Judge Barry’s will have set people in
Melbourne talking, but they do not
appear to have been told more than
was pretty generally known before.
It is said, however, that Bishop
Moorhouse was not fully acquainted
with the surroundings.
John J. Mecchi, the famous
English agriculturist, whose death
was recently announced by cable, was
in early life a cutler in large business
in London. Investing in a country
seat. Tiptree Hall, he turned his at-
tention to the economy of agricul-
ture, with what result the world al-
ready knows.
The Superintendent of Police
(William Seed) was accused in the
Fiji Times, some weeks ago, of going
into the Post Office whilst the English
mail was being made up, examining
the correspondence, and doing the
dirty work of Sir Arthur Gordon. We
would like to see Mr. Seed’s denial of
this statement.
Mrs. Ward, widow of the late
Rev. Robert Ward, recently died at
Wellington, N.Z. The rev. gentleman
and Mrs. Ward arrived at New Ply-
mouth by the ship Raymond in 1814.
Mr. Ward claimed to be the first
missionary that crossed the line.
They leave anumerous family, one of
whom is engaged on the literary staff
®f the Sydney Mail.
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy is mak-
ing a second fortune out of the sale
of “ Young Ireland.” It may not be
generally known that an Australian
edition had been procured, and was
about to be sold by Sydney and Mel-
bourne publishers. A writ 'from cer-
tain newspaper proprietors, issued
with much regret, for it was clear
there had been a mistake, prevented
the sale of the edition.
Say 3 the Auckland Star, reviewing the pro-
ceedings of the Intercolonial Conference :—“ Sir Henry
Parkes has postured most assiduously during the last
year or two in the role of champion of Federation, and
his ambition will be fully gratified should the Bill which
has been entrusted to his judgment find general accept-
ance with the colonies. Neither a general agreement on
the wisdom of confederation nor a unanimity on matters
of detail among its advocates warrants us, however, in
anticipating that Sir Henry’s genius will compass so
great an achievement.”
Captain Trouton, the gentleman who for some
years has managed the business of the A.S.N.
Company, the largest steamship proprietary south of
the line, goes to England immediately to superintend
the building of the new steamers ordered for the
Company’s coastal trade. The numerous officers of the
Company presented the Captain with an address and
testimonial on Mondav. Very flattering references
were made on the occasion to the very capable and
vigorous manner in which Captain Trouton had
managed the affairs of the Company.
Sir Arthur Gordon seems to have obtained,
during his stay in Fiji, the height of his ambition,
which was, apparently, to make the colonists hate him
as the devil hates holy water—for, according to his
ideas, any governor who makes himself popular must
be legislating for the settlers, and he would scorn to do
that. He succeeded in Fiji as he did in New Bruns-
wick, Trinidad, and Mauritius. New Zealand is the
first constitutional colony he has been in, and he will
not be allowed to interfere; but his antagonists say
that if there is any possible way by which he can make
himself particularly obnoxious, he is certain to discover
at—and to try it.
Deep regret was felt in Melbourne at the news
of the drowning of Dr. Mousse in Queensland. He was
held an very favorable estimation both in Melbourne
and Sandhurst. He commenced his experience in
these colonies as a wardsman in the Melbourne Hos-
pital, and very much surprised the committee one day
when, a vacancy occurring in the resident staff, he
Su tt • or °® oe - He was a Doctor of Medicine of
*'“ e University of France, but had never mentioned his
qualification until the opportunity came of bettering
himself. The resident staff of that time were quite
indignant at their having to take their meals With a
man who had acted as their servant; but he proved
himself the superior of all of them ; and it has always
been said that if he remained in Melbourne he would
have taken a leading position as an operating surgeon.
At a meeting of the Fellows of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society, held in London on 22nd Nov , Mr. J.
Henniker Heaton was, on the motion of Sir Rutherford
A 1 cock, seconded by Sir Henry Barkley, Q.C.M.G.,
elected an P.R.G.S.
Mr. Anthony Hordern goes to England in a few
days with two experienced assistants, to arrange for
permanent investments for the soft goods trade of
Sydney. Mr. Hordern cleared about £20,000 out of a
recent suburban land transaction. This sum, with
£15.000 added, he intends investing in buying a block
of land for building purposes in the heart of Mel-
bourne.
The only survivor of the “ Cawarra” wreck at
Newcastle some years ago, Frederick Valparaiso Hedges,
is now employed in the Telegraph Stores, Clarence-
street. Notwithstanding the severe shock his system
received at the time, and from which he has never
thoroughly recovered, he performs the work entrusted
to him to the greatest satisfaction. In 1866 he married
the only daughter of Mr. Thomas Khatt, of Wallsend,
and they are now living very happily together. Hedges
is 47 years of age.
The delusion under which poor Hugh Kennedy,
the late Registrar of the Sydney University, now an
inmate of Gladesville, labors is that he possesses
enormous wealth. He suffers from paralysis of the
brain, which is understood to have followed from his
unsuccessful land speculations. It will be a consolation,
though a melancholy one, to the numerous friends of
the unfortunate gentleman to know that he appears
perfectly happy, and that he is enjoying the benefit of
everything which the best medical aid can suggest for
his comfort.
It is well known that Mr. John Dillon, of Mur-
nimburrah, accidentally represented his district for a
few hours in Parliament. He had a card for admission
to the Speaker’s gallery, but by mistake located himself
in the front row ef the Opposition benches, and though
nothing was heard from him in the way of a maiden
speech, he made frequent manifestations of his approval
and disapproval as the speeches went along. Sir Henry
Parkes looked upon him as a formidable opponent who
was waiting but for an opportunity to come out with
telling effect. Of course the Premier, like numbers of
others, was not acquainted with the “ new member.”
The electors of Murrnmburrah are now about to banquet
Mr. Dillon.
Mr. Ernest Favenc, writing in a contemporary,
says there is no such thing as a desert —in the usual
signification of the term —in the interior of this con-
tinent. The spiniflx country is the Australian desert.
He thus describes it: —“ To see the genuine desert we
must go to the spiniflx country, and here as usual we
find Australia the home of paradox The real desert is
far more invitb g and promising looking than the sup-
P°® e jl one. On the outskirts are shady bauhinia trees
and bright-looking desert apple trees. The treacherous
spinifiex, too, looks fair enough from the distance, and
often puts on a coat of enticing verdure when the plains
and downs are parched and withered. Spinifex, to use
the name by which it is known all over the continent,
will grow almost on the surface of the hard rock, and
in most parts of the desert we find that the bedrock is
covered with but a shallow coating of soil. To
adequately describe spinifex is hard. Let the reader
imagine a thousand knitting needles thrown into a con-
fused kind of tangle with all the points sticking out-
wards; then let him imagine this tangle growing larger
and more formidable every year, until a bush fire
happily sweeps it away, and a new growth starts. After
travelling some miles through ‘ old man’ spinifex, it is
almost impossible to force horses along, so sensitive do
their shins become from the perpetual pricking they
receive. As a rule, the spinifex desert is forest country,
consisting mostly of low blood wood or box; but in
some parts of the continent—notably Western Austra-
lia —there are wide downs and plains covered with this
abomination. It is scarcely necessary to say that
spinifex is useless as fodder. Practically, it is utterly
useless to man as an article of food for his tock.”
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Canon Smith is again in Bathurst.
The Dayspring missionary vessel is daily ex-
pected.
The Jesuits are about to have a newspaper in
London.
The Rev. J. A. Dowie is in Melbourne, en route
to Europe.
Anglican church with free sittings opened in
Melbourne.
The Archbishop of York has to quit England
for the benefit of his health.
Three dissenting clergymen in N.S.W. joined
the Church of England last week.
The Rev. Charles Clark has beer preaching at
Birmingham to “ crowded houses.”
The snstentation fund in the Presbyterian
Church of this colony is prospering.
The Rev. Mr. Spurgeon’s house near London
was entered and robbed by burglars.
Canon Moreton’s medical adviser is adverse to
the rev. gentleman’s residing at Penrith.
Matthew Burnett, the temperance advocate, got
1700 in South Australia to take the pledge.
The Gqulbnrn Church Society gives ,£7OO
towards the erection of a church at Temora.
The Anglican clergymen hold themselves aloof
from the proceedings of the week of united prayer.
The Rev. A. R. Blacket, 8.A., has been cor-
dially welcomed at Kelso on his return from England.
The Bishop of Grafton and Armidale will return
to the colony in the “ John Elder,” — on a visit to Aus-
tralia.
Pope Leo is said to be the most abstemious cleric
living, his expenses not being above those of the poorest
curate.
Bishop Hale supports the Ritualistic clergyman
of Rockhampton. What the Rockhamptonites want is
a Bishop Barker.
A prophecy: That the Rev. J. Jefferia will
return to the colony holding views of an advanced
character—will, in fact, impart a rather bright aspect
to affairs temporal and spiritual.
An Anti-Christian magistrate at Bangalore,
India, has arrested the Rev. Mr. Peters, a Methodist
mif sionary, and fined him a hundred rupees for preach-
ing to the heathen. In default of payment of the fine
Mr. Peters goes to the locn-up for seven days. He
has. appealed from the decision of the magistrate.
There are in England 500 branches of the Lon-
don Young Women’s Christian Association. These
branch associations have been useful in helping young
worm n into employment, and in pr< serving them from
the pernicious effects of falling into bad company.
They hold stated meetings for prayer and Bible study.
The fact has now come to light concerning the
history of Robert Raikes that he was not only a jour-
nalist and the promoter of Sunday schools, but that
he was also an agent for the sale of patent medicines.
This was not published in his newspaper, but was care-
fully recorded in his private journal. The journal has
but recently been discovered.
Bishop Moorhonse held an ordination on Dec
26 (Sunday) at St. Peter’s Church, Melbourne, at which
nine deacons were ordained—viz., Messrs C. Greville,
W. D. Lilbum. B A., Trin. Col., Dublin, W. Jennings,
H. Collier, 6. N. Bishop, A. White, W. G. Hindley, A.
V. Green, 8.A., Trin. Col.. Melbourne, P. H. Arm-
strong, 8.A., Trin. Col., Melbourne.
According to the London Times, the Sunday
schools of Great Britain are lacking in discipline, and
are noted for the irregularity with which the children
attend. These schools (an American journal remarks)
are also deficient in the picnic and festivity element
which makes some of our Sunday schools so attractive,
and which secures such overflowing attendance when
the summer excursion is to be held or the Christmas
gifts to be distributed.
The Chancellorship of the Melbourne University
is vacant by the death of Sir Redmond Barry. The
names of the Chief Justice and Bishop Moorhouse have
been mentioned in connection with the office, but it is
said the former is quite willing to forego any claim he
might be supposed to have in favor of the latter. The
theological element, especially among the graduates, is
strong at the University, and it is understood that the
clerical partv is endeavoring to introduce degrees in
divinity. The election of Bishop Moorhouse to the
Chancellorship would further such a consummation.
The Bishop of Manchester says knowledge with-
out common sense is folly, without method waste, but
without religion death.
The Churchman understands that the Rev.
Mr. Moreton will not go to Penrith, his doctor advising
him to give up the idea.
St. James’s is low church in the morning, and
high church in the evening. The evening service brings
a crowded congregation.
Mrs. Hampson, a lady evangelist from London,
preached in Auckland, N.Z. It is said she is before
Mrs. Hardinge Brittain.
Dean Hallinan, D.D., of Manly, is regarded as
one of the representative theologians of the Roman
Catholic Church in this colony.
St. Saviour’s new church, Redfern, is numer-
ously attended. The first churchwardens are Mr.
Dean, Aldermam Young and Mr. Martyn.
The foundation stone of Truro Cathedral was
laid with full (Masonic honors. Consequently, the
Baroness Burdett-Coutts gave a donation of £lOO.
Rev. R. L. King and Mrs. King were presented
by the parishoners of Christ Church. Gladesville, with
an address, a tea urn, and an inkstand, as a parting
souvenir.
Father O’Malley, in a lecture at Dunedin, said
that the deluge was merely confined to the portion of
the earth that was inhabited at that time. The theo-
logians are advancing with the times.
Efforts are being made on the North Shore to
raise subscriptions to build a memorial pulpit in St.
Thomas’s Church, in commemoration of the late Mr.
Bode, for some years incumbent thereof.
A leading American Presbyterian divine declares
strongly in favor of Spiritualism—not the spiritualisim
of our local lunatics—and considers the idea perfectly
compatable with doctrine. He would not be surprised,
he says, at angels’ visits, and finally the Apostles and
Christ might again appear upon earth.
At the Church Congress recently held at
Leicester, the Rev. H. C. Shuttleworth, in his paper on
“ Popular Amusements and How to Improve Them,”
said, “ Believe one who has taught many a lad to box,
you will find no amusement better for winter evenings,
and few so good for the muscles, for the temper, and
for keeping the peace.”
The Congregational Year Book
just issued, contains a vast fund ®f
information of interest to Congrega-
tionalists.
Rev. Joseph Mullins, formerly of
Dubbo, N.S.W , has been appointed
first incumbent of St. Andrew’s, Clif-
ton Hill, Victoria.
The Rev. E. Dinstan, M.A.,
incumbent of Forbes, has been ap-
pointed Hon. Canon of All Saints'
Cathedral, Bathurst.
Mr. Alick Osborne and Miss
Osbourne, assisted by Miss Hughes,
are entertaining the young folks of
Barrengarry Sunday schooL
The Rev. George MacTnnes,
late minister of Tory land parish, Scot-
land, has resiamed, and accepted the
charge of St. David’s, Dobroyde.
A correspondent enquires in
vain of the Australian Churchman
why the Bishop of Brisbane signs
“ Matthew B. Hale, Bishop,” instead
of the usual episcopal style.
The Ordo, a work annually pub-
lished by the Rev. Dean Dwyer, of
Rosebank, has again been issued. It
contains official, historical, and other
data of interest to Roman Catholics.
The Rev. Gordon Calthrop, of
Highbury, England, says that a last-
ing union between the Church and
the Stage is simply impossible, their
tendency being to live eternally apart.
The Rev. T. R. Curwen Camp-
bell, incumbent of Blayney, has been
appointed Vicar-General of the dio-
cese of Bathurst In the absence of
the Bishop or when the See is vacant,
important duties will devolve upon
him, as highest in ecclesiastical rank.
An English Church Union
2,500 clergymen and 15,000 laymen,
was presented recently to the Arch-
bishop of Paris. It expressed regret
at the proceedings against the religi-
ous orders.
Dr. M'Crea’s sensible letter in
Tuesday’s Argus on the Atonement
question has caused quite a flutter
among the old school of Scotch Pres-
byterians. They intend to state
shortly what is really the teaching of
the Catechism on the subject, and
what the Bible should say, if it does
not.
On Sunday fortnight Rev. Dr.
Woods, the learned botanist and
incumbent of Richmond (N.S.W.)
church, in the name of the teachers,
presented a handsome set of books to
Mise Celeste Long, an exemplary
teacher, on the occasion of her
approaching marriage and removal
from Richmond.
Freethought is the heart disease of Christianity.
Hundreds of clergymen of every denomination fancy it
is to be found only here and there, while the fact is that
two-thirds of the men we meet in business and the
various avocations of life have long since thrown off the
religious yoke. Bymbye the crash will come, and
sects now at one another’s throats will rush to one
another’s arms in dread of the great burst-up. Which
will survive—religion or freethought ?
An English journal remarks :—The secession of
the Rev. Stopford Brooke has created something like a
sensation. There is no doubt that the Church is going
gradually to pieces. The clergy acknowledge it them-
selves, and they confess that the mischief has been of
their own doing. The good ship has been scuttled by
the crew, not crippled by pirates, as the ignorant pre-
tend. Few clergymen nowadays attempt in serious
argument to defend the old Articles of Faith. The
leading men acknowledge that science and education
make the old dogmatic teaching impossible any longer.
By blind bigotry and kicking against the pricks the
church does but hasten its end. As a well-known
clergyman remarked the other day, ‘‘Churchianity is
i undermining Christianity.
At the ordination held by Bishop Barker on the
21st December, alluded to in our last, the following
gentlemen were admitted to the Priesthood:—Revds.
Hugh Walker Taylor, B.A. (Sydney); R. J. Ross
Edwards, B.A. (Sydney) ; and Thomas Harrison, Moore
College. The following were ordained Deacons: —
Joseph Campbell, BA. (Sydney); George Henry Muzv,
Moore College; Edward David Madgwick, Moore
College; Luke Par", Moore College; George Scott,
Literate; and Frederick Thomas Trivett, Literate.
The Revds. E. D. Madgwick and Luke Parr were
formerly Wesleyan ministers, and Mr. Trivert a Con-
gregationalist. Mr. Scott, who arrived from England
by the Siam, was ordained by Letters Dimissory for the
Missionary bishop in Melanesia, Dr. J. R. Selwyn, for
work in New Caledonia.
Latest mineral discovery—lron (rails) from
Sydney to Melbourne.
“ The Edward and Angelina ” Hotel is to be
fact at Albnry in a few weeks. Quite romantic 1
A temperance man says that if ever Laycock
beaten by a nose he hopes it will not be by a blue n
It was a clever youngster who found out th
was only every hundred years you can read the date
the year both ways without altering it.
THE BOTANY AQUARIUM; OR, THE SOURCE OF THE SYDNEY WATER SUPPLY.
Suggested by the late bloodthirsty encounter
between W. H. L. Bailey, of the Temoea Heeald,
and Mr. Wehr. of the Sydney Mail:—
Bill Bailey of Temora is
A scribe who knows no fear;
And he wrote in his paper things
That riled one Mr. Wehr.
Says Wehr to Bailey, “For two pins
I’d pull your little nose 1”
“Ah, ha!”—shrieks Bailey—“Come on, then!”
And they came on to blows.
The combat, tho’ terrific, was
A little inexpert;
So neither of the twain sustained
The very slightest hurt.
Now Wehr, he struts about and Bays
“ I punished him severe; ”
While Bailey tells his cronies how
He hammered Mr. Wehr,


Notice.
The fact that this issue of The B
white paper is due to our hav
due tinted paper in the colonial
that our readers prefer tinted pap
tha necessity of continuing to u
arrival from England of direct si
some time ago and now overdue.
Notice to Advei
From this date the chai
meats in The Bulletin will be F
inch, nett.
Space being limited it is obv
maintain the literary character .
at the same time submit to the ev
on its commercial columns.
The weekly circulation of
now guaranteed to be over If
increase of several hundreds per ]
T i* the growing demand
formerly.** necessaly to &° to P r
r 9 nr - advertising patrons at
ally informed that advertiseme
week s publication must be in th
noon on Wednesday.
HAYNE,
THE BITE
THE LIVE PA1
Splendid Illustrations, and T:
Humours.
The Bulletin! The 1
The Journalistic Javel
The Paper all the hum.
The Paper all the rumc
The Paper to inspire a
The Bulletin ! The B
CIRCULATION,
BEAD EVEEYWI
AGENTS WANTED ALL OVEI
THREE SHILLINGS PEE QU.
SHILLINGS PER A
rjl H E A T E E
Lessee
THIS EVENIH
Enthusiastic Reception of
Ever-welcome Dr
THE TICKET-OF LEi
On SATURDAY next,
the highly successful
PINK DOMIN
ns played at the Criterion Theatre
of 500 consecutive nights; and
THE GRAND DIORAMA
and
AUSTRALIA, by Mr, GEO
In active preparation, OURS, 1;
POPULAR PEK
Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls. 3; Pam
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, 321
Plan of drees circle can be seen am
ARTHUR G
QUEEN’S T E
FIRST
GRAND DAY PERFO
OF THE PANTOI
JACK THE GIANT
NEXT SATURDAY, 8th
Doors opening at half-past 1, Pant
Carriages to be ordered at
Children under 12, half-price to Sta
..Box-effioe at Palii
A I E T Y T 1
ANTHONY HORDER
OF THE
HAYMARKET (ONJ
CHRISTMAS AND N E W Y E A 1
Welcome news for all those affectionate Fathers, Moth(
Husbands, Aunts, Uncles, Grandmothers, &c., &c., and all who
NICE LITTLE PRESENT on CHRISTMAS or NEW YEAI
what to buy ” or where to buy it, VISIT
ANTHONY HORDERN A
PALACE SHOW ROOMS
And see the FASCINATING DISPLAY of NOVELTIES from
INCLUDING
FANS,
ALBUMS,
’ BRACELETS,
OPERA GLASSES,
DRESSING CASES,
FANCY PERFUMERY,
ILLUMINATED ALBUMS
RUSSIAN LEATHER GOOI
LOVELY DOLLS FROM Id. TO
SEALSKIN PURSES, POCKET B
WORK BOXES, PORTFOLIOS, WA
Modern high scho(
Head Master—Mr WEIS)
cal and mathematical Master Syd
EDUCATION THOEOUGHLY
pnpils for business pursuits am
vacancies for 3 boarders.
Young Ireland, a fra
tory, by Sir Charles Gay
IDs. 6d.. by post, 12s.
GEOEGE EOBEETSON, 361 G
OUIDA’S WORKS. Fnrtl
to hand of Ouida’s Moths
2s. bd. each, by post, 3s. 3d.
j GEOEGE , EOBEETSON. 361 G
SERIAL VOLUMES. Sun
Leisure Hour, new yoluim
cloth gilt, 8s. 6d., half calf, 10s. 6(
Family Herald, new volume,
British Workman, volume 18
Band of Hope Eeview, vol. 181
GEOEGE EOBEETSON, 361 G
0 H N D
IMPOETEE C
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brass
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine
Iron, Brass, Coppe:
and Lead Pipe,
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEE
Department of M
Sydney, 21st
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS P(
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given tha
execute and take deliver
tioned Gold-mining Leases witl
this date, they will be declared
Peel and Uealla Mini?
No., 193; William Sully and o
11; County of Gresham, parish <
Application No., Glen Innes 79-9.
No., 200; Samuel Boss and an
ol 160 ; Head of Nundle Creek,
acres; Application No., Nundle 39
Bathurst Mining I
No., 115; Ah Sam and others
Swallow’s Nest, parish of Irene;
No., Eockley 78-12.
I —
Department of M
Sydney, 24th
NOTICE to applicants e<
LEASES.
IVT OTICE is hereby given thai
A-l execute and take deliver
tioned places within thirty da
they will be declared void.
Southern Diste
No., 72-205; E. P. Greenwood; 1
No., 72 206; J. Shipwav andothe
No,, 72-207; J. Cottrell and othe
No., 72-208; C. Jenkins and otbu
No., 72- 211: J. Cottrell and anoth
No., 72-244; J. Johns; Nanama
No., 72-245; J. Eamsay and c
acres.
No., 72-246 M. O’Connor; Near
No., 72-253; G. Harcourt and i
acres.
| |No., 7— 25G"; J. Eamsay and o
acres.
No., 72-277 ; J. P. Eichie and
p.
p. la;
Wholesale and Ee
P B0 T)UCE ME E (
Comer
GEOEGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOEE
18 George-street West (late Par
And
Darlinghnrst Eoad, near W
Pure Cape Barley, Peed anc
rj. A. S M
* 88 KIJIG STEI
(From Rotherham’s, I
HAS ALWAYS Oh
a first-class assort m
WATCHES AND JE\
by the best LONDON and CONTI
turers.
All repairs dome on the premis
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXF(
0HEAPEST AND EES'
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA’]
HAT STREET, HAYN
TEA, Is per lb
Other articles equally che:
Goods packed and delivered free
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LI
WITH.
O N E T. M
UNION LOAN AND DISCO
762 George-street (Firs
Three doors from A. Hord
Hours: 9to5; everyevei
MONEY ON EASY 1
Advanced on machinery, Farms,
Freehold Properties (without expe
MONEY ADVANCED upon PI
SECURITY : rcnavahla bv instain
E. CLAEKE AND
Wholesale and Eetail
CO.,
POSTAGE STAMPS.
GEO C E
Are acknowledged t<
THE BEST TEA IN
THE CHEAPEST I
for
AUSTEALIAN WINES am
GEOCEEIES.
Country Orders promptly s
193 OXFOED
TRAMWAY TICKETS.
(Opposite Court-house),
darlinghuest.
STEAM COACH AND WE
WORKS,
Hakris-stbeet, off Geo
and
Adjoining the Darling Har
S. G. would beg to draw the par
Export Merchants to the large q
Spokes always on hand, which w
saving in freight to purchasers i
timber in the rough.
January 8, 1881.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Destructive pastoral fires in South Australia.
The gold yield of the colony shows an immense
increase.
Most of the English ships have made very long
passages.
Dalby and Goondiwindi (Q.) mail stuck up near
Woondool.
Cole’s great circus opens in Melbourne on the
3rd February.
Writs issuing against persons detaining the Free
Library books.
Eev. Wazir Beg appointed Oriental Interpreter,
vice Cameron, resigned.
Griffiths and Party, Grecian Bend lead, Temora,
washed lOoz. to the load.
Opening Albury railway still unfixed. Traffic
branch not quite ready.
Understood arrangements made for the Austrian
Band to come to Sydney.
Two bicyclists did the distance from Sydney to
Temora, 293 miles, in ten days.
A very wealthy Maori chief named Tareha,
recently died at Hawkes’ Bay, N.Z.
The 50 per cent, duty on wines, spirits, &c., at
New Caledonia is much condemned.
Mr. E. S. Smythe says Proctor’s tour in the
colonies has been a gigantic financial success.
A deep-sea fishing company is to be formed at
Lyttleton, N.Z., with a capital of about £lOOO.
Sydney Gas Company reduced the price of gas
fid. per thousand—not 2s. 6d., as it ought to be.
George Eignold is having a triumphant march
through the provinces of England with “ Henry V."
Miss Fidler, the lecturer on cookery, has re-
turned to New Zealand. Her parents live in Dunedin.
The Eev. Mr. Lumsdaine, whose estate was
sequestrated some time back, has obtained his certi-
ficate.
It appears that there is no juvenile slavery at
Mr. Yicars’s tweed factory. Fair hours and fair
payment.
Mr. Aland and the Hon. James Taylor, M.L.C.,
are likely to contest Toowoomba, vice Mr. Davenport,
deceased.
Mr. John Pottie has sent ns some very neat
looking calendars for 1881, giving special prominence
to his Scottish Oils
Meeting to express sympathy with Parnell held
at the Haymarket on Monday night. Noisy and rowdy,
but unanimous gathering.
Salt water on the streets of Sydney is a decided
success. The face of the street remains hard and
■damp for a considerable time.
Mr. N. L. Griffin, the senior partner of the
International Dramatic Agency, Melbourne, was a pas-
senger by the mail steamer Bokhara to Europe, to look
for novelties for Australia.
The Sydney Grammar School boys gave the
Launceston Grammar School players a great licking
at cricket. Scores: — Sydney, first innings, 127; second,
Z 43. Launceston, first innings, 78; second, 54.
Mrs. Bowen, widow of the brave Constable
Bowen, who fell in the encounter with the Moonlight
gang, has taken the Bay View Hotel, Double Bay.
The natives of Pentacost Island, hitherto
thought to be peaceful, have lately made several at-
tempts to capture vessels and murder their crews.
Cripps, of Pitt-street, Sydney, has the contract
forth o supply of the luncheon (at which the Governor
Da presen *) at Parramatta races on Anniversary
It is almost certain now that the death of Mr.
E. D. Dunlop, an extensive fruitgrower, residing near
i ass, was occasioned by poisoning. His wife has been
arrested.
Attendance at the Australian Musenra for the
and 1880.-1879 :-Weekdars, 67.990; Sun-
tml, ! ,60 » i #tal ’ 104,594.-1830:—Weekdays, 79,766 ;
Sundays, 32,697; total. 112,463. Increase for 1880,
Mr. Spencer, the dentist, of Wynyard-square, is
man V His wa *ting-room is every morning
mon°iT,i yC vj eyeices > and he turns more old
Faustus Mushing bridegrooms than ever did Doctor
Percy Fitz-Stnhbs is organising a guitar Har-
“°rn'a m West Maitland. When Giorza heard Percy
warbhng to the accompaniment of six guitars, the
maestro had to confess that there was something to
learn in music outside of Italy.
Two gentlemen being in doubt as to the locality
of that part of the cemetery dedicated to the Presby-
terian religion (in a provincial churchyard), were soon
convinced of its identity by the healthy state of the
thistle in that particular part.
It appears now that there was very little in the
affair of the King-street branch of the City Bank. The
securities left by Dargin, the manager, have been
realized upon, and have given some pounds over and
above the amount of the defalcation.
Plans of the new harbour scheme at South
Semaphore, Adelaide, are completed. They include a
new harbour, railway, canal, docks, and wharves on a
very extensive scale, and cover an area of 253 acres.
They were prepared by Mr. Byrne, C.E.
Knowing horses at Adelong. A collision oc-
curred between two horses which were being violently
ridden. One horse fell dead—it was supposed. He was
drawn off the course. Ten minutes later he got up and
walked away, leaving his owner to walk home.
A naval court of inquiry at Noumea acquitted
Captain Kilgour of all blame in the matter of the loss
of his vessel, the Mystery, at Sandwich Island. Cause
—current, seven to eight miles an hour, setting N.N.E.,
and the island erroneously laid down in the charts.
A doctor at Invercargill, N.Z., received two
years’ imprisonment with hard labor for manslaughter.
Some months ago he was called in to attend a woman
named Cameron in child-bed, and the prosecutor alleged
that culpable negligence on his part caused |her death.
Some two or three years ago, a certain person
collected a sum of money for the purpose of erecting a
place of worship at Nundle; there is no sign of any such
structure yet, and people naturally wish to know when
the chapel is to be built, or what has become of the
money.
The Levuka native police are not renowned for
being tender-hearted. They took a sailor to the lockup
instead of to the hospital, and kept him there until he
died. No enquiry has yet been held as to the cause of
death, as it might expose a case of ill-treatment. Who
would be a sailor ?
New officers of the Hebrew Mutual Benefit
Society;—President, Mr. J. Assenheim ; vice-president,
Mr. J. Joel; treasurer, Mr. J. Isaacs; committee, Rev.
L. Mintz, Messrs. M. A. Rapken, M. Kaufman. A. Cohen,
S. Phillips, A. Gerston; auditors, D. Davis and J. H.
Collins; secretary, H. Asher.
The Melbourne Charities|are mismanaged (says
John Peerybingle). When we hear of an old man with
fiye well-to-do sons trying to palm himself off on the
country bb destitute, and wanting to be kept for the
rest of his life at the public expense, it’s about time
inquiries were made, or, as the Chief Secretary says,
“a note made of it.” Now, I hardly know who de-
serves the most blame : the old man for trying to get
into the asylum, or the five “ loving sons " in good
businesses, who would stand by and see their old father
asking for alms.
Jeannerett s Parramatta tramway project is on
the tapis again. This time the residents of George-
street, Parramatta, are ignoring their Borough Council
. won ’t have the tramway at any price—and
petitioning Parliament in the matter. Mr. Jeannerett
is going in for a Tramway Bill.
The Licensed Vituallers’ Association have pre-
sented Mr. J. B. Olliffe, their energetic president, with
a very handsome, illuminated address, in which are set
B+nor^traits 8 +n 0r^ traits (by Boyd) of the members of the Council
• Association. A very complimentary reference
address to the services of Mr. Olliffe
during the last three or four years.
The recent hot weather has brought out the
the river at Parramatta in full force.
Even the fish can t stand the foulness of that stream,
near Lennox Bridge, in the centre of the town. Some
mullet caught there the other day presented a bloated
and aldermanic appearance, and when opened they were
found to be speckled ’ right through, and stank
In one of N.Z. towns a prisoner named James
Cunningham received eight years’ penal servitude for
larceny from a dwelling. On receiving sentence, he
declared he had been twice sentenced by the same
Judge innocently, and thanked his Honor, and said he
hoped Judge Johnson wouM live to sentence him a
third time, when it would be for something. Happy man.
During the holidays, Manly Beach held its own
again for the number and select character of the people
who patronized that delightful resort. It was noticeable
that Manly was, as usual, visited by families—and that
is an indication of some value. The splendid passenger
boats, Fairlight, Emu, Mystery, and Royal Alfred took
down near upon six thousand persons, and the trip
proved not the least enjoyable part of the day’s outing.
Captain Mance, whose genial honhornmie and
unvarying civility to the many thousands of persons
of all degrees who travel yearly by steamer under his
protecting care on the Parramatta River, was the re-
cipient of a very handsome gift on New Year’s Eve.
Before the steamer left the King-street wharf, the Hon.
J. S Famell, on behalf of a number of subscribers,
presented him with a very handsome Waltham gold
lever watch, valued at twenty-five guineas, and accom-
panied the presentation with a few well-chosen words,
to which the gallant captain suitably responded.
Angles points out that when the Houses of
Parliament, Melbourne, are completed they will have
cost the country from first to last about one million
sterling, and that when the time comes it will be dis-
covered that the chambers (or one of them) are far too
small, and in the present design there is no provision
for the enlargement, which is, in fact, impossible. In
other words, when the house is built, it will just be
about time to pull it down.
Mr. W. H. Steadman, of Balmain, writes :—“ I
have just been informed that on Christmas Day there
were at dinner in the district of Illawarra seven per-
sons related to me, whose ages were respectively 84, 84,
82, 78, 74, 71, and 63. Six of these were from the same
parents, of which the paternal relation died about 20
years since, at the age of 95. It will be seen that the
average age of this patriarchial family is about
77 years eight-and-a-half months."
Mr. E. Holloway’s company has lately been
playing with great success in Bathurst. It included
Miss Maggie Oliver, Arthur and Helen Vivian, and Mr.
St. Laurence. Mr. O’Brien was their agent, and he has
received great encomiums from the local press for his
courtesy in that capacity. Miss Helen Vivian, as
‘‘Judy O’Trot,” in “Ireland as it was,” and Miss
Maggie Oliver, as “Ragged Pat,” created quite a sensa-
tion. Vivian’s “ Sam Winkle,” in “ Checkmate,” says
a local contemporary, “ kept the audience roaring."
On New Year’s Day Sir Joseph Banks’ Hotel
and Pavilion, Botany, were amongst the most numerous-
ly attended places of public entertainment, no less than
6,000 persons being present diming the day. Among
the artists engaged were Johnny Cowan, the Cottiers,
the Misses Blance and Florence Murray, Master Willie
and Miss Bella Perman, and George Bell. Dancing in
the spacious pavilion was greatly patronised. • The
manner in which the whole of the arrangements were
carried out reflect the greatest credit upon the energetic
proprietor, Mr. Frank Smith.
All accounts go to show that the new state of
affairs a; the Islands is disastrous to life and trade.
The niggers laugh at threats of British vengeance. The
result in one case has been that an Englishman, named
Chaffin, gave the quietus with his revolver to a chief
that had directed the murder of his (Chaffin’s) Ameri-
can partner, Johnson. Sir Arthur Gordon declined to
punish either the chief or his party, because the victim
was not on Englishman. The cannibal came off with
a large number of followers to Chaffin’s vessel six
months after, evidently with the view to take stock.
A good Derringer bullet between the two eyes stretched
the rascal on the deck.
“ Quilp ” still runs on his merry cruise, and joy
beams in the faces of the management. The success is
complete—even tb tne smallest detail. And this re-
minds us that we are requested to make a correction.
Miss Marion Melrose states that her dress in the dying
scene is frayed consequent upon her extensive wander-
ings by flood and field. We beg to endorse that now.
The dress is frayed, but so nicely is the fraying done
that the dress looks better in the frayed than in the
original condition. Or is it that the wearer looks
better—being of an excruciatingly interesting pallor-
in it! Anyhow, frayed or not, the result is charming.
The thing goes on swimmingly. Nell and Quilp, as
central figures, charm and enthral, and all the rest en-
thral and charm alternately. And so, “Let us be
joyful!’’
They do rather short-sighted things in Fiji.
A contractor to supply fuel to the large sugar-mill on
the Rewa was making a small profit out of buying the
wood from the natives, which profit the Government
thought ought to go into their pocket. So they issued
orders to the natives that it was tahu for them to cart
anj- more wood; and as the contractor could not there-
fore fulfil his contract, he is afraid of an action for
damages. The mill had to stop crushing for upwards
of two months; and, besides injuring the poor strug-
gling farmer through not crushing his over-ripe cane,
it lost to the owners upwards of £l2oo—thereby also
decreasing the exports to the.same amount. The states-
man who brought about the above condition of things
has but lately been made a C.M.G. It will thus be seen
how ability is recognised.
Parnell (N.Z.) Church of England Grammar
School had a break-up day. The local paper says:—
“ The song, * The Maori’s Lament,’ was very amusing.
The Maori is supposed to be lamenting to the tune of
‘ Old Dog Tray,’ the loss of the good old Maori times
before the advent of the pakeha. The only thing that
enables him to bear up under his misfortunes is the fact
that he has ‘ a faithful friend in old George Grey ’ —Sir
George the late Governor and ex-Premier. Then
followed the chorus:—
Old George Grey’s ever faithful,
The rats couldn’t drive him away ;
He’s faithful and he’s kind,
And we’ll ever ever find
A faithful frier d in old George Grey.
This song brought down the house, and I should argue
from it that young Parnell is decidedly Grey.”
When a man styles himself a “ broker,” and his
office is on the flags outside Perkins’s, and his stock-in-
trade the stump of a black cigar, he is a broker in
another acceptation of the term as well. Any amount
of these flowers may be seen blooming on the pavement
outside the Exchange, and they all have thousands of
pounds’ worth of property put into their hands for
sa'e, anl a penny-halfpenny in their pockets. These
are, it is said, the mysterious individuals who huy all
the plated watch-guards and leather shoe-strings, and,
as a glowing industry, they may be said to exceedingly
flourish. The company of these gentry is much appre-
ciated by publicans inside their hotels when they have
any money, and much appreciated outside when they
haven’t. Altogether, these broken-down brokers are
mysterious types of a civilization which has reached
its highest acme, and we recommend a serious study of
them to the contemplative students of human nature.
Mr. E. A. Proctor has given up his intended
return to Australia and the Southern part of N.Z.
Inter alia, he writes “ I had also planned my future
course so as to include fresh visits to Tasmania, Vic-
toria, and New South Wales, where I had already been
most kindly welcomed, and a visit to Queensland,
where I have not lectured, and now never shall. Tor I
find that two feelings—home sickness and a sense
(which has always been strong with me) of the irksome-
ness of lecturing—grow so much upon me that I am at
last compelled to assign an early date for the close of
my lecture work. I have decided to let the course of
lectures I am to give at Auckland (ending December
24th) conclude not only my colonial lectures, but my
lecturing career. This will have lasted eleven years,
during which time I shall have given 1123 lectures in
all, 501 out of Great Britain, and of these 110 in Aus-
tralia. In saying that I have received as kindly a
greeting in Australia as in America, I should have
thought three months ago I was saying all that could
be said, for I can hardly express my sense of the kind-
ness and genial warmth of my reception in the United
States and Canada'. But New Zealand has certainly
gone a little ahead (she could not possibly have gone
far ahead) even of America, Australia, and Tasmania in
this respect. I shall always retain the warmest recol-
lection of the kindness of my welcome in this colony.”
Mr. Proctor was booked to leave Auckland for San
Francisco by the January boat.
New Year’s Day was a great day at Louie Cor-
vette’s Wood-cutters’ Arms, on the Liverpool Road, at
Enfield. Horse-racing, foot-racing, dancing, skittle
and quoit playing, and other amusements were indulged
in freely throughout the day. A linage pavilion had been
erected by Mr. Corvette, and it was well filled by the
lovers of the “ light fantastic" from ten in the morning
till about tea o’clock at night. Several interesting
horse races took place, and some hair-breadth escapes
from accidents. One horse ran away with his jockey,
galloped off the course and into the hotel-yard, where
he ran foul of the skittle alley, and threw the boy
heavily amongst the pins—eight of which he knocked
down. One fellow won a big wager, having backed
even pins. A good string band was engaged, and a local
celebrity, Mr. Shearer, added to the list of attractions
by his presence in Highland costume, playing the bag-
pipes. A handsome chestnut colt, belonging to Tom
Dixon, of Druitt Town, was the principal raeer of the
day; and the greasy pig was captured by Tim Barnes.
The prize for grinning through a herse-collar was
awarded to Charley Merenitt after an exciting contest.
A porridge-eating contest was also arranged between
Old Dick Brown and Reynolds, the vanmon, which
Brown won easily, Reynolds not being fit and feeling
nervous. The winner was loudly cheered, and several
people who won money on him wanted to “ shout” for
him. It grieved the old man greatly to refuse them,
as he had no room left. Constable Jeacock was present
the whole of the day, and deserves great credit for
keeping quiet.
Signor Giorza’s concert at Maitland, on Thurs-
day, 30th Dec., was not well patronised. The reserved
seats were all taken, but the back seats and gallery
were comparatively empty. The Signor was assisted
by Mr. Harry Hyndes (his pupil) of West Maitland,
whose playing at the last Civil Service Musical Society
concert was so much admired ; and the vocalists were
Miss Moon (soprano), Mr. J. Hinchy (tenor), and Mr.
J. H. Flynn (baritone). The concert, musically, was
most successful, each item evoking a rapturous encore.
The “ Rhapsodic Hongroise ’’ of Liszt, by the maestro,
and his composition, “The Mexican Nightingale,”
splendidly rendered by Miss Moon, being enthusiasti-
cally applauded. Mr. Hyndes was very successful in
his piano solo, a fantasia on “ Semiramide." Mr. Hin-
chy sang the popular ballad, “ Smile, and bid me live,”
and substituted as an encore, “ Sweethearts.” Mr.
Flynn sang “ In the gloaming ” in a highly acceptable
manner, for which an encore was demanded, but de-
clined by the singer. The duets, “ Oh, Maritana," bv
Miss Moon and Mr. Hinchy, and “ Army and Navy,”
by Messrs. Hinchy and Flynn, with a trio selected from
Verdi’s “ Attila,” were most creditably rendered.
Could anything be neater than an old darkey’s
reply to a beautiful young lady whom he offered to lift
over the gutter? “Lor’, missus,” said he, “I’sused
to lifting barrels of sugar.
Parents in the country, where medical atten-
dance is not at hand, are frequently perplexed to know
what is the best family medicine to keep in the house,
suitable for all casualties to which the flesh is heir to.
We call attention to the advantage possessed in the
combin ition of a mild aperient and effectual physic,
not in the shape of pill or bolus, but a lozenge which
can be given at any time to the younger members of the
family. Extract of a letter from C.E.: —“ I never
knew a child refuse them.” Then keep a box of
Eanderson’s Podophyllin Lozenges by you, and when
once you have tried them you will never be without.
Ask for Eanderson’s Lozenges, Is. per box.—[Adyt.J
AEGYLE BOND, MR. I. E. IVES, PEOPRIETOR. (See Page 2.)


O T I C E
SCARCITY OF WATER.
When the water becomes low in
Wells, Tanks, or other Reservois, it
is more or less IMPURE, and should
always be FILTERED before drink-
ing; the GERMS of DISEASE are
thus prevented from entering the
system.
Thousands had a drink of pure
water from these Filters which were
placed in the Garden Palace during
the late International Exhibition.
Guard against TYPHOID FEVER
and all other diseases arising from
drinking impure water, by procuring
CHEAVIN’S RAPID WATER
FILTERS.
Every Filter guaranteed] to be
perfect or exchanged.
cuuiac
Mi
FILTt*
B
APID WATER FILTERS.
THE UNDERSIGNED are Sole
Agents for George Cheavin’s Rapid
Water Filter, which is adopted in
preference to all others by the English
and Foreign Governments, the ilits of
the Medical Profession, Hospitals,
Asylums, &c. Not only is it now
found in every establishment of note
throughout the United Kingdom and
the whole of Europe, but it has made
its way into the mort remote parts of
the Globe —a success unparalleled by
any other Filter. Its superiority over
all others for purity of water, rapidity
of action, simplicity of construction,
durability, and efficiency, is verified
by the numerous Gold and Silver
Medals it has been awarded in Eng-
land, the continent of Europe,
America, and Australia.
SIZES KEPT IN STOCK.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT).
JEIBS’
Noii-poisonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should belpatromsed
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, if. A., Ashfield: —For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes Perfect
t» :oium t vz»nrt 7m o*vAw*f/M* rt/ j mi7.4f.«nm.* ShidnsHi ?—Jftvfia* Perfect Purifier has I no
:—Jeyes' Perfect
_ public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney:—My ’child bad sore eyes for 2i years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney .—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—-Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
CD
(*
ac
PRIZE
CO
-<
Against the world
. Haepeb & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
O
CD
mim
w
66
BUY
lEIMM
rsoTTin
Mustard
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition J udges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
CO
OUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
READY MADE,
from 30s. the half-dozen.
SMITH & MANNELL,
THE ONLY
PRACTICAL SHIRTMAKERS
IN THE COLONY.
298 GEORGE STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
RINGER’S GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ATT, former years outdone.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,900 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years’ standing employing
10,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machme sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly whatitis represented, at REDUCED
PRICES 10s Cash
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
r
HE UNIVERSAL LOCESTICH SEWING MACHINE
lave you not heard of it? Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
MARTIN
389
SOLI
Agents
Street
George
FOX
N
*
Hornsby
«c
s*
SYDNEY.
f Ai|ls-A«ttraliu
STRIPPERS
o
$
& PAIN
WITH
*
York
$
Requel
Farmers \ O,
to examine '
AND
187 & 189
St
Hornsby’s . v
STRIPPERSX'fc
The Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest,
Our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS are specially made to our own specifications, and
nbine all the best points of the leading COLONIAL Machines.
Messrs. HORNSBY have also introduced many important Additions and Improvements *° secure
•an Stripping and Perfect Thrashing, and the Trials during the recent DAMP ENGLISH
I VEST fully proved that Wo have the Very Best Stripper for 1880 Harvest.
MARTIN & PAIN, 389 George Street,
ie Leading House in tlie Agricultural Implement Business*
Miscellaneous
0 LIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTER
EASTERN AND COM
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Meda
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize
PRESERVES—Indian Pri
COPPEE—Plantation No.
. Do. „ Pea
Do. „ Nos
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Plake and Pei
SAGO
PEPPER—White and £la<
OFFICES:—348 GEORGE
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BR
REDGATI
P MEET 1
And FOOD OF H
The most wholesome moi
children or persons in del
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SU1
ass
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL
OR
ALLWOOL
w°
p
Miscellaneous
rjETSDALE AND EOBEETS,
397 Geobge Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 Yoek Stbeet,
33 Pitt Stbeet,
lEONMONGEES, lEONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPOETEES,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latest productions in—
Engines Engineers' Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Elms, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Hon, Steel,
And
6ENEEAL lEONMONGEET.
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITB,
416 GEORGE STREET.
BEST PAINT IN THE WOELD.
HE
H,
v 4>
*
A
ELASTIC
&
c?
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
. supplied in cans containing 1 gal., \ gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Faint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
ms:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.’’
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
MACHINIST DEPOT.
H. P. GEIGOEY AND CO.,
Nc. 11, PITT-STREBT,
Impcrters »f all Descriptions o
MACHINES T,
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Foot Power Lathes
Rook Drills, Windmills •
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINETUM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
gANDEE LAZAEUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HAEDWAEE,
CHINA, GLASS, EAETHENWAEE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS, JEWELLEEY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST BATES.
YORK STBEET.
