

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7.—No. 82.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 1881.
Price—3d.|
bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 20, 1881.
The People’s U niversity.
The Sydney University occupies at the present
time a most anomalous position. It derives a
considerable subsidy from the public revenue, yet
has made no effectual attempts to accommodate
itself to the popular requirements. It stands
coldly isolated, deriving its inspirations from
antiquated systems, and scarcely returning appre-
ciable benefits for the support extended to it.
The wants of the age, and especially of a colonial
community, are scarcely recognised in the Uni-
versity curriculum. The institution at present is
little more than an appanage of the privileged
professions and wealthy orders. It is true that,
thanks to private bequests and benevoiences,
some few avenues of access have been
opened for the children of poor parents,
but these are the exceptions, whereas they ought
to be the rule. The serious extent to which the
University fails to perform the functions which
should naturally be discharged by it is forcibly
brought into notice by the fact that other institu-
tions have felt it incumbent upon them to step
forward and fill the void.
# * #
To a colonizing people merely classical learning
is a drug. In Australia, people must yet awhile
be utilitarian or perish. The graces and embel-
lishments of life, the mere accomplishments and
pedantries, have no real value. Certainly, even
these are worthy of esteem, and from a certain
abstract point of view their encouragement is to
be desired. The rude necessities of every-day
struggles have a tendency to roughen the manners
and to encourage the development of a certain
coarseness of mental fibre. Consequently, any-
thing which emollit mores is deserving of en-
couragement and attention. Still, all that is,
owing to imperious necessity, of secondary
import. It is necessary first to have bread in
order that we may live When that is fully
assured, it will be time enough to study the art of
baking fancy loaves. The defect of the existing
constitution of the University is that it begins at
the wrong end. Its embellishing and refining
influence is made available almost exclusively to
those who have other opportunities of acquiring
those advantages. Moreover, it is a literary
polishing-machine, where a rough-hewing appliance
is greatly more needed.
* # #
The Sydney University leaves it to the School
of Arts to provide technological classes for work-
men. The lofty institution will not stoop to do
good during any but canonical hours. It does not
refuse to receive mechanics and clerks; occa-
sional protestations are made on its behalf that it
will be glad to welcome them. But it does nothing
practical to draw them within its gates. At the
present time the University education is a mere
article de luxe, except to sucking lawyers—and
even to those it is little else. A youth who takes
a University degree, or even carries off honors, is
no whit nearer the opening of a useful career than
he would have been without those distinctions.
In many instances he is further from it. He
holds a guarantee that his accomplishments com-
prise familiarity with a certain number of dead
tongues, and perhaps some unpractical ac-
quaintance with one or two living languages,
which he can read, but cannot speak. Of mathe-
matics he brings away a more serviceable stock,
but not nearly so serviceable as it might be made.
He is acquainted with mathematics pure and
mixed, and even with what schoolmen term
“ applied mathematics,” but the last mentioned is
generally a delusive term, the application being,
as a rule, antiquated and incapable of fitting in
with any modern mechanical process without fur-
ther special training.
# # *
One has only to consider what are the require-
ments of the community, and to compare with
these the curriculum of the University, in order
to discover how utterly inapposite the latter are
to local needs, A nOw country needs first-rate
surveyors, really scientific measurers, and plenty
of them. It lacks skilled architects —men of
certified knowledge and high character. It needs
mechanics, with their special talent developed and
cultivated to the highest pitch. It must have
good doctors, and after all wants men of culture
and knowledge—wholesale. Now what are the
facts ? In the University there is no school of
architecture, none worth a thought of railway or
hydraulic engineering. There is not a single lea
son in the mechanical arts. There is not even a
school of medicine or surgery. As matters stand,
it is almost a misfortune for a clever boy to win
one of the few scholarships or busaries which
enable the duces of primary schools, whose parents
are unable to pay for a University education, to
enter the College. Their talents are perverted
into unproductive channels. Those nascent
powers of which they had given evidence are
turned from purposes useful to themselves and to
their generation, and addressed, under special
guidance, into delving among classical charnels
and turning over the oft-shovelled dry bones of
dead arts and dead languages.
# # *
Taking a practical illustration, the colonists
have, within the past few months, been in sore
straits for lack of architects who could speak
with authority and for whose dictum confidence
could be claimed with assurance of acceptance.
Turn to the Sydney University, in this day of
need: it is barren. Again, the progress of the
whole colony is made to hinge in no slight degree
upon the completeness and adaptability of its
railway constructions. For skilled engineers of
guaranteed efficiency there is work without limit.
Again, the University has none to offer. It has
fiven us, Heaven forgive it, a Supreme Court
udge, and sundry lawyers. It has not given to
heal the sick, or dress the wounded, a single
physician or Burgeon. When our imported doctors
halted and hesitated, on being confronted with
eruptive symptoms, and for weeks would not or
could not say whether or not a pestilential disorder
was among us, the University was dumb and
without help. The colony does not owe to its
fostering one man who had done yeoman’s service;
not one of whom it can be said that for what the
country owes to him it has to thank the training
of the University. t --«■
* # #||
As the case now stands, the worker living from
hand to mouth, is made to subsidize the rich and
well-to-do for having the latter’s sons taught
various accomplishments, chiefly useless to the
pupil, and altogether useless to the tax-payer.
The clerk who has his living to earn, but who
feels within him the prickings of energy or the
promptings of talent, turns his face to the Uni-
versity, wistfully, but in vain. The young
underlie his everyday processes, and to emerge
from the mere imitative labourer into the intelli-
gent constructor, finds that for such as he the
much-vaunted and stately University has no suc-
cour. He must manage to teach himself some-
how. The School of Arts, or the Public Library,
may give him a friendly help—from the Univer-
sity, he can get none.
* * *
This condition of things is absurd and intoler-
able. New South Wales contains a democratic
community, yet tolerates —nay, supports—a
University designed and managed in imitation of
aristocratic models. This is simply an imposition,
and it would be a lesser evil to withdraw all
public support and let the sham school—so
antagonistic in its essence and principles to the
spirit of our people and institutions —live on
such support as it can draw from its patrons,
rather than to foster and maintain it and its use-
less staff of pedants, as a monument of inadapti-
bility and perverted privilege. What is needed is
the subordination of absurdly superannuated
branches of teaching—such as the Greek and
Latin tongues, which are of no practical use in
Australia—to instruction which shall have a direct
value for the rising generation, and which will
show its effects in something accomplished, some-
thing done, by-and-bye. There should be classes,
before and after the ordinary hours of labour, for
clerks, apprentices, and mechanics, which would
enable the ambitious, the energetic, and the
talented, to push themselves to the front, to
receive the stamp of accomplishment and of
merit, and to be thus labelled ready for use when
the colony needs the services of her ablest sons.
The late Hon. George Oakes, M.L.C.
It is impossible not to thrill with a sense of
painful emotion when one learns that a man in the
perfection of physical health, and in the full enjoy-
ment of his mental powers, is struck down in an
instant by a fatal accident, and his career on
earth at once ended. The Hon. George Oakes,
who fell a victim to our street tramways, had
served his native land for nearly forty years, to
the best of his abilities, in a quiet, solid way.
There was nothing showy or superficial in his
character, and hence he kept the “ even tenour of
his way ” unfalteringly. There are, of course, no
startling events in a career so serene and equable
as his was ; but the few more important par-
ticulars of it that are worthy of being mentioned
are not without their “ moral.” The late George
Oakes was a native of the colony. He was
born in 1813, and was consequently in the 68th
year of his age at the time of his lamentable
death. One of the circumstances which gives
peculiar poignancy to the general regret that event
occasioned is the fact that his mother survives
him. That venerable lady, now 92 years of age,
is said to be the second child born of British
parents in Australia. Mr. Oakes received a good
plain education, which he improved by reading
and reflection ; and although of a contemplative
turn of mind, he was active and energetic. For-
tune favoured his early efforts as a grazier and
squatter, and he became a comparatively rich man
before he had reached middle age. If his talents
lacked “the flash of the diamond,” they had its
solidity. Without any effort on his part,
he was summoned to the Legislature of the
country, having been nominated to the
Council in 1848, in which he occupied a seat
till the inauguration of Responsible Government
in 1856. Two years afterwards he contested
the representation of Parramatta with Mr. John
Lackey, now Minister for Works. The latter was
the more popular, because the odium of nominee-
ism did not attach to him, and he defeated his
opponent. Mr. Oakes accepted this verdict of the
electors with serenity, because it enabled him to
fulfil a long-cherished desire of visiting Europe.
He did“so accordingly, and remained in England
for some years, improving his mind greatly by the
study of politics, it might be said (so regular an
hahitu6 of the House of Commons was he), under
the instruction of some of the greatest statesmen
of the empire—Disraeli, Cobden, Bright, and Glad-
stone being amongst the number. On his return
to the colony (1872), Mr. Oakes was elected one of
the members for East Sydney. That seat he
retained till the dissolution of Parliament on the
Gardiner imbroglio. He made a second visit to
England, where he remained a considerable time ;
and soon after his return (1879) he was nominated
to a seat in the Legislative Council by the Parkes
Ministry. He retained his seat up to the time of
his sad end; he was, in fact, on his way home
from the House when that “ unmerciful disaster”
occurred which caused his death. He has left one
son, Dr. Arthur Oakes, of Woollahra, and, as
beforementioned, his own venerable mother, behind
him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Patriotism.
There is a certain (kind of politician whose feelings
would resemble that of the traditional fish out of water
it this word were struck out of his vocabulary. To
him it represents a convenient abstract,idea, which can
always be lugged in to give roundness to a speech, or
be referred to as a motive in any emergency. It is a
shadow, by careful treatment capable of figuring as
the most solid substance. A cheap phrase which, if
repeated often enough, and with a sufficient amount of
tub-thumping energy, stands to orator and audience for
an emanation of highjlprinciple. “ £s;well laid out,’»
said Dean Swift, “ will procure a man the reputation
of being charitable." To qualify for a patriot requires
more pains, perhaps, but not necessarily a greater dis-
bursement of cash. The would-be patriot must be
ready to take the chair at any and every possible
meeting. Whether it be to reward a' larrikin for
throwing stones at a Chinese, or to collect money
for the erection of a statue to another patriot. If an
M.P., ho must introduce and head, if necessary, depu-
tations to Ministers on every conceivable opportunity.
For or against tramways, to advocate this or that water
scheme, for widening streets, for roads, railways, for
any of the thousand and one undertakings on which a
paternal Government may be pestered into spending
public money. Into the abstract justice of these
demands he need not inquire ; his object must be to
improve his constituents’ property. In the House or
out, that is the patriot’s watchword. Letters to the
papers, too, are useful—particularly if they show that
the writer has been the first to make some discovery,
no matter how trivial, in political or domestic economy.
To be a good mutual admirer is indispensable to a
patriot. He must always be ready to give, and never
refuse, a testimonial. There are no better opportu*
THE LATE HON. GEORGE OAKES, M.L.C.


THE GENUINE AMERICAN
HOP BITTERS!
Manufactured by the
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO. OF
ROCHESTER, N.T., U.S.A.
are a
MEDICINE. NOT A DRINK.
The above Company are well-known as being the
originators of the
HOP BITTERS PRIZE,
The great boat race rowed on the Thames, and so suc-
cessfully carried off by the
GALLANT LAYCOCK, of AUSTRALIA.
HOP BITTERS
are the
PUREST, BEST, AND CHEAPEST MEDICINE
EVER MADE.
They are compounded from
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (Podophyllin),
AND DANDELION,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and Valuable
Medicines in the World, and in addition contain all
the best and most effective curative properties of
allother Bitters, being the greatest BLOOD PURI-
FIER and life and health restoring agent on earth.
REMEMBEB THIS I IP YOU ARE SICK,
HOF BITTERS
will surely aid nature in making you well again
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a resident of a mias- V
matin district, barricade your system against the '■
scourge of all countries—malarial, epidemic, bilious,
and intermittent fevers —by the use of
HOF BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are suffering
from any other of the numerous diseases of the
stomach or bowels, it is your own fault if you re-
main ill, for HOP BITTERS are a sovereign
remedy in all such complaints.
(If you are wasting away with any form of Kidney
disease, stop tempting Death this moment, and
turn for a cure to HOP BITTERS
If you are sick with that terrible sickness Ner-
vousness. you will find a “ Balm in Gilead " in the
use of HOP BITTERS.
In short, they cure ALL diseases of the Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure or help, or
for anything impure or injurious found in them
That poor, bedridden, invalid wife, sister, mother,
or daughter, can be made the picture of health by
a few bottles of Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
WILL YOU LET THEM SUFFER!
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yon will have no sickness or suffering.
Large square panelled amber colour bottles. White
label with green Hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other.
Price ss. No other form, size, or price is genuine.
American Hop Bitters Mfg. Co., Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
To be obtained at all Chemists and Druggists.
MONTEFIORE. STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
W!
A
■7k
A
s/
rjIHE INTERCOLONIAL.
HEAD OFFICE : 263 GEORGE STREET.
CAPITAL : £lOO,OOO, SUBSCRIBED; £42,049.
LIFE and FIRE INSURANCES.
LOWEST RATES of PREMIUM.
W Policy holders participate to the extent of four-
fifths in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
c
ASH PRICE LIST OP WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
W Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of one sort, otherwise
6d. per pozen extra will be charged.
AU Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town or to the Wharves or Redfem Railway Station.
Terms —Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
WINE Sc SPIRIT MERCHANT,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
HE COMING SENSATION.
MONSTER SIX DAYS’ AND NIGHTS’ GO-AS-
YOU-PLEASE TOURNAMENT,
Open to the World,
will take place in the
SYDNEY HIPPODROME,
Opposite Robertson’s Coach Factory, Pitt-street,
commencing on
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, at la.m.,
finishing
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10. at 11 p.m.
First Prize, £lOO and Gold Stop Watch (value £5O).
Second Prize, £5O.
Third Prize, £25.
Fourth Prize, £lO.
An extra prize of £5O wilt be given to any one com-
pleting 500 miles.
The whole of the Prize Money will be placed in the
hands of the Proprietors of the Town and Codntbt
Journal.
The Promoters reserve the right to refuse any entry.
Entries limited to twelve. The first twelve received
will be accepted; the others returned.
ENTRANCE FEE, £4,
to be sent in to the Manager, at Hunt’s International
Hotel, on or before
SATURDAY, AUGUST 27,
at 8 p.m.
Messrs. £, WADE and TURNER, Promoters.
jTsEYMOUR. Manager.
nities for a puff " direct” or collateral." All this, and
more, may be required of a professional patriot. For
how can a man be recognised as a lover ®f his country
unless he does something for it P And what more can
he do than get the public money spent on his particu-
lar nook of it, or air himself to the world as an
administrator in posse, or a virtuous man in esse 1 When
obtained, what will not this character of patriot do for
its possessor ? It becomes the very raison d’etre of his
political existence, wraps him round in the garment of
his own virtue, and finally lands him either in the
Paradise of office or the dignified retreat of the Order
of Saints Michael and George.
Mr. Baker’s Resignation.
Under all the circumstances, there was certainly
nothing left for Mr. Baker but to resign the portfolio
of Mines. He stood in the position, in fact—although
not formally—of having been charged with at least
neglect, of having been heard in his defence, and of
having so failed to clear up the matters under enquiry
that a p rimd facie case had been made out against him.
Nothing, certainly, could have been more lamentable
than Mr. Baker’s attempt at explanation. He sought
to deny the accuracy of the reports alleging certain
facts, yet left the facts alleged by that report un.
challenged. He insisted that the statements and
expressions ascribed to his co-trustees of the Milbum
Creek Company and to their critics had never been
made or uttered. But he did not follow up that denial
by showing, as might have been expected, that such
statements and such expressions could not have been
made for the convincing reason that they would have
been without foundation, and mere figments of the
imagination. So long as the alleged facts remained
unassailed, namely, that some four thousand and odd
pounds had not been accounted for, the probability was
obvious that some shareholder would have made just
such inquiries and complaints, and that some responsible
person might have offered some such explanation as
was reported by the Grenfell Record. It was not a
little interesting to observe the anxiety of certain
members of the Legislative Assembly to turn the
current of indignation into any channel but one in which
it seemed likely to scoop up the corrupt dealing—if
there were any—of members of that chamber. Thus, one
member's virtuous wrath took the turn, a little grotesque
under the circumstances, of urging that there should
be no neglect to bring an action for libel against the
Grenfell Record, presuming the accuracy of its report
were not sustained. It seems a pitiful thing that men
chosen to be legislators should take such a skew-eyed
view of their responsibilities as to desire to make it as
difficult and as dangerous as possible for any private
person, or for the public press, to call attention to
indications of corruption or incompetency. Meanwhile,
however, it is more than a little premature for persons
to speculate as to who shall be Mr. Baker’s successor
in the Ministry. Nothing seems more proper than that
the position should be kept vacant until the result of
the Royal Commissioner’s investigation shall be known.
If Mr. Baker be shown, as we sincerely trust he may, to
be free from either taint of wrong or indication of weak,
ness in this matter, it would be but justice that he
should be immediately re-instated in his office. Mr.
Salomons has before him a most onerous and cruciaj
task. It may be said that it rests with him either to
arrest with unflinching hand the curse of corruption
which threatens all our institutions, or to show in the
clearest way that nothing of the kind has entered into
the affair, and to relieve innocent persons of undeserved
aspersions.
A Downright Letter.
A correspondent writes from Wilton—and we prefer to
preserve his own form of expression, as showing how
people do write when not " on show: ’’ —“ Would you
please use your influence in your valuable paper to
forward the cause of morality in this neighbourhood ?
The waterworks have commenced, and navvies as a rule
are not over-particular in their behaviour. The force of
example is beginning to have its effect on the youths
here. Please stir up some of these whice-choker gentle-
men in Sydney. They are building splendid churches
and princely parsonages, and yet within an easy dis-
tance of Sydney there is no provision made for the
intellectual wants of these mea. Why cannot they lay
aside their sectarianism, and erect a rough building
here, and send a minister f It is not for want of funds.
I find by the Wesletan Advocate that the preachers
have a reserve fund of £115,000 (one hundred and fifteen
thousand pounds), and yet teach the people " not to lay
up treasure on earth I " Do exert your influence, and
confer a great favour on the inhabitants of Wilton.”
We commend this matter to the attention of the clergy.
It is " plain English "—such as is being spoken every
day.
Ten Pound Licensee.
Bush public-houses will not be reformed altogether by
the present Licensing Act. It is doubtful if they will
be in any degree amended; and they need amending
surely. It would be very much better for the whole Aus-
tralian community if such dens were quietly gathered up,
together with a deal more of rotten rags and Dev.l’s
dust that serves but to taint and defile us, and snuffed
out. They are traps and snares, these bush pubs.
Ostensibly places of accomodation, they are in truth
dens of ogresjwherein men exchange hardly earned gold
for doses of madness and misery, and premature decay.
Our dear Premier is, of course, aware of all these facts,
and proposes in fatherly kindness to amend them by
the simple process of —propagation. He will make
their establishment a matter of still greater ease. A
ten pound license shall replace the heavier impost of
the olden time. Dennis and Patrice shall no longer
have to collect forty pounds to purchase a license or to
pay the fine that may be incurred in the earlier process
of shanty-keeping. One ten pound note, the price of a
case of liquor, a gallon of white spirit, and a few use-
ful drugs, andjthe axe or the pick may be relinquished
for the “ gintioman’s llife’”so dear to Monsieur Sham-
bock’s hospitable soul. Competition is, of course, the
soul of trade, and by immediate increase of compe-
tition a vast increase of soul will accrue to this black
body. It is one of those master-strokes of policy by
which great minds mend small matters. It is worthy
of our Premier, He pressed his gentle hoof upon a
mall-pox pustule recently, and the virus squirmed out
omewhat beyond the hoof, and took root and grew,
necessitating many more stamps with kindred result.
He will put his foot down upon the tyrannous impost
by which the poor publican is compelled to be
slightly, say idiosyncratic, in his dealings with cus-
tomers, and the pressure will be successful, as in the
pustule-crushing. The proposed amendments are simply
humbug. It is a fact that nine-tenths of the bush
public-houses of Australia, if conducted upon equitable
principles, and in the interests of tbe community, or,
say, with a simple desire for an honest livelihood
would not pay their proprietors, even if assisted by an
annual grant of £4O sterling. The publican is somewhat
like the fossicker in very poor ground : his daily wash-
ing barely makes tucker—but then there is the chance
of the “ speck.” It comes more frequently to the pub-
lican than to the fossicker, in the shape of unlucky
wretches, who, to their own most grievous hurt, become
possessed of cheques. Taken in and done for—robbed,
poisoned, and pitched out into the dust—they pay the
license and make up the weekly wage. In their interest
the house is kept; and if the license be ten, or forty, or
a hundred pounds, their interests will be studied with
equal regard. There is a way of reformation. It is by
turning over some few practices, now recognized as the
devices of honest tradesmen, to that long category of
offences we brand and punish as crime.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Baker, Minister for Mines, resigned.
Bill to amalgamate legal professions read second
time in Queensland Assembly, by majority 33 to 8.
At the same rate of progress which has been
made in the Assembly with the Ringbarking Bill, it
would take at least 20 years to pass a comprehensive
land law.
The worse a politician, is the greater the fuss he
will make when an accusation is made against him. On
the last day you will hear him declaring that Gabriel
is making a trumped-up charge.
The case Miles v. MTlwraith, in which the
plaintiff seeks to recover penalties from the Premier
of Queensland for sitting in Parliament while
shareholder in ships under Government contract,
is postponed to the 22nd.
Sir George Grey proposes to substitute for the
customary Parliamentary oath the following:—“I,
A. 8., do sincerely promise and affirm (or declare) that
I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her
Majesty Queen Victoria.’'
Three of the shareholders in the Milburn Creek
Copper Company have affirmed that the report pub-
lished in the Grenfell Record (the accuracy of which
was challenged by the ex-Minister for Mines and others)
is correct in every respect.
Dan O’Connor broke out again in the debate on
Mr. Garvan’s having been fined for non-attendance as a
juror. Dan pronounced the Chief Justice a despot,
and strongly advised Mr. Qarvan to go to Darlinghurst.
Well, Mr. Garvan would pine for society, and if Mr.
O'Connor would kindly— But the hint will suffice.
Gambetta, when he heard the news that the
Senate had rejected the scrutia de list*, said: "The
Senate wanted to set itself above the Chamber, and
fight both me and universal suffrage. So be it. I pre-
fer open war to masked enmity. I was not the first to
draw the sword, and I shall not be the first to sheath it,
now that I am thrust, in spite of myself, into the heat
of battle."
It is evident that the Government do not intend
to bring forward this session the much-required
measure to provide for local Government. No party
interested seems to be satisfied with the Licensing Bill,
and that because it is likely to take up all the time till
the Estimates for next year come on for discussion.
Experience teaches that when the petty wrangling
over the Estimates commences, practical legislation is
at an end.
There is a growing tendency amongst members
of Parliament to abolish the Friday night sitting. We
know of no other Parliament that sits four days a week;
certain we are that no other Parliament gives private
members the same amount of time to do their business
as is allowed to the Government. In the House of
Commons private members are allowed two hours and
a half a week—but here they are allowed two out of four
sitting days.
The “ Suburban contingent” has induced the
Government to put on a late train, which is to leave
Eedfern half an hour after Parliament rises. Reporters
and others, to whom Parliamentary proceedings have
not the least interest, disapprove of the innovation, as
late sittings may be expected. Fancy Messrs. Foster,
Copeland, Jacob and Pigott, who are “ along-the-line
men," taking part in a debate after midnight. A speech
from each of them would settle the question whether
or not anyone would get home “ before daylight doth
appear."
There was a storm in a teapot in Macquarie -
street, on Thursday evening, because a member of
Parliament had been fined for non-attendance as a jury-
man. It was amusing to hear the wise legislators
talking about “inherent rights and privileges” over-
riding an Act of Parliament, passed so recently as 1876.
Our verdict is that it would be no loss to anyone if the
law were enforced, and one half of the members of that
debating club were perpetually occupied as jurymen.
All teat we should ask would be that they|might not sit
in judgment over us.
It would be a very remarkable thing if a
week passed in Parliament without David, the No. 3
Mudgeeite, getting “the straight 1,2, 3 "from some
one. It is a good thing for him that he has a “ hard
front,” or otherwise he would have leng since been
removed from the ring. The Attorney-General, who
usually lays on the soft soap thickly, made the great
man stagger last week when he remarked that he could
not understand a man with any powers of reflection or
any common sense arguing in a certain direction, but
he could understand the hon. and learned member for
Mudgee doing so. After that David knew nothing more
about the rights of Parliament; at any rate, if he did,
he kept his knowledge to himself.
" That up and down its awkward arm doth sway,
And coolly spout and spout away.
In one weak, washy, everlasting flood.”
These remarks have been called forth by the actions of
the two members on the Bingbarking Bill. If Mr.
Melville could have his way, all the squatters would be
sent to gaol, and kept there. Mr. Turner said he paid
no heed to the outcry against squatters ; his motto was
" Justice to all,” and for that reason he voted against a
proposal that no compensation should be paid for ring-
barking.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Egypt and Abyssinia on the snarl.
Deficiency in French wheat crop expected.
King Kalakua, of Hawaii, arrived at Paris.
Gladstone to be banqueted again, poor man !
England inundated with Protectionist literature.
President Garfield relapsed. Condition critical.
Bradlaugh not so well. Recruiting at seaside.
Jules Ferry, French Premier, denounces the
Beds.
German Government will repress anti-Jewish
riots.
Protos, with cargo of frozen meat, arrived at
Port Said, all right.
British have renewed pressure on the Porte for
reforms in Armenia.
Irish Revolutionary Congress at Chicago, H.S.,
enjoying an internal row.
Big Volunteer corrobboree at Edinburgh a fort-
night hence. 40,000 natives.
Three of Ayoub Khan’s regiments refused to
march on Cabul, and were disbanded.
Russian Government want the peasantry to
emigrate to —Nova Zembla, of all places.
Khedive of Egypt has dismissed his Minister for
War, owing to complaints from the army.
The Boers to have all the Transvaal. Native
claims to portions, disallowed by the British.
Autumn Session of Parliament expected to deal
with the Lords amendments of the Land Bill.
Marquis of Salisbury determined to stand by
the Conservative amendments in the Land Bill.
Ayoub hard-up for arms and munitions. Rein-
forcements for Abdul Rahman marching from Cabul.
Emigration from Great Britain to America so
great that N. Y. Immigration Commissioners demand
1 dol. per head poll-tax.
Lord Granville, in the Peers, solemnly protested
against the amendments to the Land Bill, prognosti-
cating most serious consequences.
Dilke (Under-Foreign Secretary) promises that
Government will not conclude with France a commercial
treaty prejudicial to British trade.
The Standard (principal organ of the Tories)
states that all modern Conservatives unite in condemn-
ing Lord Salisbury’s tacties re Land Bill.
Gambetta, in a speech at Belleville, denied that
he aims at a Dictatorship. He advocates army and
magisterial reforms, and in reference to Church
revenues.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ J.C.” (Penrith): If you read The Bulletin
carefully you’ll see that we do not insert such matter.
"A Grandmother": We print the substance of
your communication, ana rely on your sending us
further information should it be required “ J.J.C.” :
1. —By the Montague-Turner Co., at the Gaiety, on the
25th ultimo. 2.—ln Melbourne, about twelve months
ago. 3.—“ Olivette ” was played for the first time in
Australia, at the Royal, on Saturday last “E.S.” :
Your story of your tram journey seems nearly as long
as the journey itself. You shall be, nevertheless, at-
tended to " F.S.H.” (Middle Head): We can’t
make Middle, head, or tail, of your Cow’s Tale. Was it
the corporal who—or the cow that—but wo have no
space to discuss it. Try the Telegraph " H.Y.”
(Tamworth): Your communication is of no interest
since they have not shut your School of Arts at night,
and as there is only one alderman for it and three against
it, the nocturnal cloture does not seem likely to eventu-
ate. And, remember this—it’s no harm for a man to be a
soap-boiler. Perhaps you, in common with a good
many of us, stand a much better chance of being
a soap-boiler than an angel " J.W.R.C.”: Knatoh-
bull the murderer, was hanged outside Darlinghurst
gaol, in front of the spot on which the Reception-house
now stands. He was, we believe, the last criminal
publicly executed in Sydney “ 8.Q.C.”: Thanks.
Your communicatien would, however, not be interest-
ing to general readers “ J.M.F." : By all means,
send them along “J.P.": Much obliged. Send
them along “8.A.Q.”: Much obliged. Write again.
“ Jake ” : Of two of your notes we gladly avail
ourselves. The other refers to a matter which is of
interest to but a small coterie, and not to the general
public. It is therefore declined "P.C.S.": When
you again write straight libels, send your name
•* Tbe Burial of Sir John Moore” : Not good enough.
” J.M.F. ”: Certainly. Always welcome
“R.C.N.”: Received "A.G.N.”: We are obliged for
the clipping, which will appear in our next
11 R.A.M.”: Glad to have heard from you "E. W.”:
Thanks. The verses are good enough for the Princes,
but not good enough for The Bulletin. “R.M.”:
Was not received last week “ Colonial”: Very good.
Next week " Schottlander” (Penrith): You are too
clever by half. You say : —“ In Bulletin of 13th inst.,
page 8, column 3, line 2, occurs the word “ goloshes."
On the 18th of June last a paragraph appeared in
“ Sundry Shows,” in which the word “galosher”—
being a quotation of the rendering of that word by
the lower classes, and perhaps that is to what you
allude. We are glad you think our paper is smartly
written, and, to show there is no ill-feeling, are
prepared to receive your subscription in advance
as long as ever you are prepared to send it
“Outsider": Well written, but too late. Subject stiff,
in fact. Hope to hear from you again “ Dramatic”:
Much obliged “You make bows," &c.: Received,
but rather mysterious “More Drafts”: Thanks.
Next week “Hy. Robey": Will duly appear “A
Subscriber”: Held over “H.S.G.”: Next week
•* W.L.": The paragraph yon refer to had no reference
whatever to the show mentioned by you “ Tarcoo ”
(Woollahra): Yes, if suitable “ A Remarkable Con-
trast”: Next week “ Joseph Purcell”; Will look the
matter up for next week “ Braidwooa”: A little too
straight “ Amy K.’’: A good joke. Next issue
"John Jones": The word “Bathurst" was a misprint
for “ Ballarat.” The compo. has been knocked on tbe
head “ T.J.C.”: Just a little too late. Next issue,
probably “C.K." (Orange): Received. Will have
our attention “J.J.”: Will enquire “Nemo”
(Newcastle): Dr. Fortescue, or Dr. Harman-Tarrant.
“ Goulbum" (re football): Will give you a show
next issue “R.T.M.”: A capital story. Next issue.
To Make a Successful Divine.
You take a well-proportioned man—he should be rather
fair.
And shave him smoothly, lip and chin, and nicely port
his hair;
His nose be straight, or aquiline; his eyes calm, deep,
and bright;
His hands, like dear dead Aspinall’s, so strangely,
purely white;
And on his face one fixed calm smile, all passionless
and meek—
There every soul should comfort find who comfort
came to seek.
Next clothe him in a straight black frock of sleek and
glossv hue;
And let bis bands be smoothly ironed, and prominent
in view;
And furnish him with silver voice, of sweet seductive
sound;
And store his mind with churchly lore, but be not too
profound—
With type and symbol rather deal, more utterly divine.
Where, through the aesthetic, parables in languid lus-
tre shine.
He should not paint lord Satan black, nor couple
Death with Sin,
Nor makes the gates of Paradise too straight to
enter in.
But on his all receiving breast (’tis metaphor, beware!)
A suffering, sinful, female soul should quit its dense
despair.
Oh I rest assured that such as he shall certainly be fed.
The Lord his pasture shall prepare, and lubricate his
head;
And when through long, dim-lighted aisles, his rounded
periods roll,
Proclaiming grace in precious tones, and all-suffused
with soul,
Full many a gentle maid will sigh, and drop a silent
tear,
And feel, in truth, the Heaven of Heavens is very,
very near.


SOCIAL.
Another of the now far-famed Eltham (Edge-
cliff Eoad) picnics came off, with great success, on
Saturday week. The host and fair hostess with their
guests, numbering about 200, and comprising the Slite
of Sydney and many officers from the Detached Squad-
ron, left the Circular Quay shortly after noon in the
new steam launch Alethea, en route for Chowder Bay,
the German Baud discoursing sweet music on the way.
The trysting place having been reached, luncheon,
served in Compagnoni’s best style, was quickly dis-
cussed, the gentle zephyrs evidently having a good
effect on the appetite of all. The repast over, lawn
tennis, rounders, and dancing in the pavilion and on
the lawn were entered into, and continued with un-
flagging energy until dusk, when a start was made for
home. The affair was thoroughly enjoyed by all, for
even the Minister for Justice played rounders, while a
fashionable and reverend doctor of music footed it gaily
on the green sward with many a fair lover of the Terp-
gichorean art. The dresses were gay, costly and beauti-
ful —one of blue silk, worn by a lady from North Shore,
being unique.
* * *
Fijian gubernatorial etiquette demanded that
guests should appear at dinner in full dress suits, until
the broadcloth never-mention-’em’s of the planters
were in jeopardy of becoming a world too large for
their shrank shanks, and Sir Arthur Gordon had con-
descended to permit the wearing of light suits. The
captain ot H.M S. Nymph one day was heard to remark
that h# wished he could take off his uniform coat and
sit in his shirt sleeves. The next batch of invitations
carried the captain’s desire intoleffect, and fifty or sixty
gentlemen sat down to dinner with his Excellency
minus their coats.
* * *
With reference to a paragraph which recently
appeared in The Bulletin, a Queensland correspondent
writes : —“ Cases of white men legally marrying Aus-
y 'alian aboriginal women have not been so unfrequent
* ', generally supposed. One case I know of person-
■' miy—that of a gentleman owning a station near Bin-
gera, N.S.W., who has for a wife an aboriginal to whom
he was married according to the rites of the Anglican
Church. She has a family of daughters who, so far as
accomplishments and graceful manners are concerned,
would put to blush the daughters of many a fine Sydney
lady.”
» * *
The Herald has forgotten to state whether
his Excellency the Governor of Queensland and his
charming young daughter were examined on their
arrival at Sydney. It is well-known by Sir Henry
Parkes, who, as everybody knows, isn’t a respecter of
persons, that Sir Arthur Kennedy keeps a strong staff
of Mongolian lacqueys at Government House, Brisbane.
Miss Kennedy, by the way, is the same young lady who,
on her arrival in Brisbane, a year or two since, refused
to submit herself to medical inspection, notwithstand-
ing that there was small-pox on board the vessel in
which she arrived. It is said, too, that oue of her
father’s orderlies was recently discharged because ha
refused to follow Miss Kennedy about and hold up her
umbrella. Some malicious people say that the unfor-
tunate trooper was mistaken by the young lady for a
Chow, but it’s hard to believe this.
« * *
There was a ball the other night at Herberton,
Wild Biver, the newly-opened Par Northern tin field.
They are getting quite civilized at Herberton now, for
we learn that one iady was attired in a handsome Irish
poplin, trimmed tastefully with white satin; another
fair one appeared in a magnificent Japanese silk,
trimmed with black velvet. The wife of one of the
local storekeepers was very appropriately dressed in
black silk velvet with white lace trimmings. The belle
of the evening is said to have been a Cairns girl, and
there must really have been plenty of time to discuss
the question, inasmuch as there were only twenty-eight
ladies to sixty of the sterner sex—in other words, the
men had but half a woman apiece. This little difficulty
was thoroughly anticipated, and to prevent unpleasant-
ness it was decided to confine the refreshments to non-
alcoholic beverages. In writing to a Cairns paper con-
corning the event, a Herberton man observes : —“ The
misfortune is that at these balls one has to take his hat
off, and if there happen to be present any one whose
capillary appendage is scant or below the average, his
chance for the evening is not A 1; although such a one
may not be a tolerably good-looking fellow, as, for ex-
ample, my friends Charley and Thomas, the latter,
nevertheless, might make the acquaintance of Mrs.
Allen’s hair restorer with advantage.”
* * *
The impudence of the gods must be kept within
bounds, otherwise aesthetic and fashionable people will
have “ no show.” When that charming bevy entered
the undress circle the other night, attired in the cus-
ternary shoulder-straps and high-heeled boots, a small
boy with a big voice cried from the gallery, “Why
don’t yer take off yer clothes, misses ?” The young
wretch’s howl broke a death-like silence, and served
to call the attention of the whole house to an exhibition
which was, after all, but a fitting prelude to the sensu-
ous scenes and suggestive dialogues in the fleshly
“ Olivette.” By the way, one exclamation from the
gallery during the progress of the piece named (which
exclamation, too, was distinctly audible to everybody),
caused well-bred people to giggle, fathers with
daughters to look black, and a certain actress—to
Mush. , * *
Most visitors to New Norfolk, Tasmania, will
remember the dancing assemblies which used to take
place at the Bush Hotel, where Mrs Blockey took every
care of her guests. Well, the new locale of these little
hops is to be the Public Library, with a cellar as a re-
tiring room for the ladies, and a tent for the gentlemen.
Owing to the close propinquity of a “ pub." many of
the fair sex will often find themselves partnerless
during the evening. Of course, the dances are only
intended for the oi'polloi, but it is such small kioks-up
that do the mischief.
* * *
A confiding swell was recently led astray by the
representations of an aristocratic city barber, who
assured him that his “ Double Patent Back-action
Cantharidine Elixir ” was the only thing in the werld
that would soften and develop the hair. The swell
found that it really was calculated to develop—a brilliant
brick-dusty tint in his raven locks. The barber
explains that the “ Double Patent," &c.. merely brings
the hair back to its natural colour; but his customer
even now avers that he can’t, however faintly, recall a
time when his hair was “ ginger.”
# * *
The fancy dress ball held at the Town Hall,
Maryborough, Queensland, at the end of last month,
was a grand success. Nearly 200 persons were present,
and music was provided by the Austrian Band, who
thoroughly charmed the dancers. Many of the eostumes
were very pretty, and great care had been taken in
making them correct. Amongst the ladies’ costumes the
most noticeable were those of Mrs. Missing (lady of the
Court of Louis Quatorze), Mrs. Porter (“ great-grand-
mother ”), Mrs. Henry Walker (Queen Anne Boleyn),
Mrs. Monckton (“the wife of Bubens”), Mrs. J. J.
Power (“ling Alfred’s wife"). Miss Pollock (“Com-
min’ thro’ the Eye”), Miss Scougall (“Cherry Eipe ”),
Miss Maxwell (“ Grace Darling"), and Miss Beck
(“ Greek guitar girl”). Mr. E. B. C. Corser made up
as “the King of Portugal,” and the portly Mr. Henry
Walker as “Henry Ylll.”—both costumes being in
admirable taste, and correct in every detail. Among
other good impersonations were those of Mr. Irving
(“ French nobleman, reign of Louis XIII.”) and a well-
known newspaper man (“ Kip Van Winkle”). Dancing
continued until 5 a.m.
* * *
It was at Maitland bachelors’ ball A galaxy
of youth and beauty were present, but the lady who
had resorted to art to improve her figure secured the
greatest share of attention. She was richly dressed,
her disposition was sparkling, her face pretty; her
judgment and caution were alone at fault. She was
tightly laced and wore paas, but as the said pads were
not properly fixed, what was at first a form of “ undu-
lating grace,” became in the movements of the dance
very much battered. The lady had gone in for move-
able hips, and the pads shifted at times into most incon-
venient positions. The change reminded the young
men of what they had read in the school-books about
“ the shifting sands of the great Sahara.” It is said
that the morning after the ball the hall custodian
(fathered up enough bran to feed a yard full of poultry
for a mouth.
# # *
Two plucky ladies recently tried to approach the
foot of Govett’s Leap by travelling along from Hartley
up the Valley of the Grose. It is said that when they
desisted from their attempt they had about as much
clothes left as Eve had when she picked apples in
Paradise. By the way, that small and select portion of
the public who are fond of descending awful gorges and
scaling cliffs will be delighted to hear that the Govern-
ment are about to provide means of descent to the
Grose Valley by making a track either from Hartley or
from Perry's Look Down. One or two very adventur-
ous people have descended from Docker’s Ladder —of
course, at the risk of their lives. Probably we shall
ere long, in the march of civilization, have the pleasure
of living in a boarding-house beneath the Pulpit Bock,
and turning the big waterfall into a shower-bath. As
the falls are 520 feet high, it would, of course, be unsafe
for any but hard-headed people, such as members of
Parliament, to indulge in such a douche. But when we
do get Govett’s Leap properly fixed up, there'll be no-
thing grander at Yosemite. The Government guide-book
tells us that no ordinary visitor should descend to the
gorge of the Grose vid Docker's Ladder (a clear drop of
only 2150 feet) without the services of a thoroughly
competent guide. There don’t seem to be any com-
petent guides procurable, and as ordinary people per-
ceive that trees in the valley which are known to be
200 feet high look from the main level not much more
important than moss on walls, they don’t think of
going down, but simply “ stay thar,” like the Pilgrim
Fathers on Plymouth Book.
m • •
The Wellington belles have had (what we are all
liable to) a “sell." When the kangaroo “ racket ’’ was
on, of course, all the officers of the Squadron went up
in mufti, and so great was the anxiety of the ladies
there to “ collar en ” to one of the “ defenders of our
hearths and homes,” that introductions were dispensed
with. All good-looking strangers were heroes with the
fair sex, and this circumstance was taken advanaage of
by a simpering commercial traveller, who had that day
arrived at the town which will be for ever historic
through having been once represented by Mr. John
Shepherd. This bagman, having a handsome face,
played the part of a “ Tourmaline ” Lieutenant for
“ one afternoon only," and in that character had all the
girls at his feet. He talked more naval heroism in one
hour than Earl Clanwilliam could do in a week, and
before “five o'clock tea” time came, had thoroughly
convinced his entranced listeners that he was a second —
what shall we say ? —Mandeville. Next morning, of
course, the dream was over; but that bagman, in the
“ sample room ”of his hotel, did a big “ biz." He had
had the best of the joke, and —well—ladies say things
to naval officers, you know, which . Anyhow, he
sold out,
* * *
A man who lives opposite the best hostelry in
Wollongong, writes to say that he doesn’t object to
people getting married, but when a Sydney merchant,
who spends his honeymoon on the South Coast,
promenades the balcony all day with his arm round the
girl’s neck, the scene becomes monotonously tan-
talising.
» ♦ ♦
Mr. Charles Lyne, of the S. M. Herald, was
last week, at Newcastle, married to Miss Louisa
Witherspoon.
The Woollahra Einking Club dance afc Glammia-
hall was a marked success. As usual, the belle of Pad-
dington, tastefully attired in black velvet trimmed with
white satin, shone pre-eminent among the many fair
faces present. One of the belles of the Masonic ball
and two sisters hailing from Darlinghurst found many
admirers ; and Glebe, Darling and Potts' Points, were
represented by some very attractive ladies. The com-
pany numbered 150. The club’s annual ball on the 7th
proximo promises to be a great success.
♦ * *
A private theatrical company, the chief per-
formers attached to which are ladies, has been formed
at Queanbeyan. # #
A Masonic ball is announced for an early date
at Parramatta. #
Some of the most energetic business men of
Rockhampton are trying to float a company (800 shares
at £5) for the purpose of providing summer accommo-
dation at Yeppoon, on the Pacific Coast, 25 miles from
the city. Yeppoon, which has a glorious beach, will
make a splendid resort in the hot season for the languid
inhabitants of the city of “ sin, sweat, and sorrow."
« * •
The Aucklanders were very wild on finding that,
after every preparation had been made for the reception
of the Princes, those young gentlemen would not visit
their city. One of the papers wrote about “ this con-
temptuous rejection of our professions of loyalty,” and
attributed the fiasco to “ the wire-pulling of Sir Arthur
Gordon, at 'Wellington.”
# # *
A gathering of the Hite of the Eichmond Eiver
district took place at the School of Arts, Casino, on the
sth inst., when, with a good floor and an excellent band,
a most enjoyable evening was spent. The company,
which numbered about eighty, began to arrive about
8 30 p.m., and the hands of the clock pointed to 4
before the last of the visitors were enveloped in their
wraps. Amongst such a galaxy of beauty it was diffi-
cult to award the pride of place. Some gave it to the
blonde with the charming hazel eyes, who was attired
in plain white; others divided the honours of belle
between a married lady with an exceedingly graceful
carriage, and a dashing brunette. The dresses were
for the most part in excellent taste.
# * *
Mr. L. F. Heydon (of Slattery and Heydon,
solicitors,) was, on Monday, married to Miss Gell,
daughter of the eminent architect of that name, who
was for many years an esteemed resident of the City of
the Plains. The happy pair spend their honeymoon in
Melbourne.
# # *
At the opening of the Maryborough and Gympie
line, the Mayor of Maryborough gave a complimentary
ball to the Ministry and Members of Parliament. As
soon as supper was announced, a well-known store,
keeper rushed in, put his mother in the seat
reserved for the Premier, and deliberately took the
ticket out of the plate and tore it up. The lady prides
herself upon giving a tone to Maryborough society, and
was highly indignant when told the seat was reserved.
* * *
A branch of the Commercial Bank was opened
at New Norfolk, Tasmania, on Tuesday, the 9th inst.,
and on the evening of that day the first Assembly Ball
of the season took place. The ball was a great
success, and the dresses worn by the ladies
showed clearly that although living in such a dull
locality their ideas are not behind the times. Miss
Macfarlane in black satin, with very prettily made
train, looked charming—with a certain amount of dash,
which was almost obliterated by her grace. Miss
Lily Gatehouse, in grey trimmed with rich ruby velvet
edged with lace, elbow sleeves and violets worn in a
wreath from the left shoulder and round to the middle
of square bodice, was considered the belle.
# # #
The benedicts of East and West Maitland give
a grand return ball to the bachelors during the present
month. The invitations are numerous.
# # #
Jem Mace, having retired from “ the ring,” has
declined to make a match. It was a worn in this time.
She insists on Jem paying forfeit, as he refused to come
to the scratch. In other words, Jem is to be sued for
breach of promise. Jem, who is a publican now, will
be his own bottle-holder, and a Supremo Court Judge
will officiate as referee. The girl values her pet pug.
at £5OO, which is cheap for an ex-champion.
# # #
J. R. Bingle, Vice-Consul for Italy at Newcastle,
entertained the commander and officers of the Italian
war-ship Europa at a banquet, on Saturday last. Mr.
Alex. Brown, of East Maitland, afterwards entertained
the visitors.
• * •
There was a gaslight marriage in one of the
fashionable churches of West Maitland last week. The
affair was quiet, and rather hurried. Next day the
bride casually remarked that that clever Mr. Spencer,
the Sydney dentist, was in town, and she would so
like to see him. She has all her own teeth now. All
this comes of marrying by gaslight.
• * *
At the close of the hunt near Morpeth,
recently, thirty-five ladies were present on horseback.
The hospitable owner of Duokenfleld entertained the
company, and a pleasant hour or so was spent in the
ball-room. The costumes, as might have been expected
under the circumstances, were decidedly novel. The
knights of the chase were slightly inconvenienced by
high boots and spurs, and many curious contretemps
resulted.
« * »
A fair correspondent, “ One of the Disap-
pointed," writes to say that she attended the Botanical
Gardens, to hear the band of the Permanent Artillery,
which had been advertised to play. The band did give
one selection, but when that had been concluded,
several of the officers took the musicians away in a
steam launch, to play for the amusement of themselves
and their friends while the Squadron steamed down the
harbour. Our correspondent hopes that the public will
not again be thus disappointed.
# # *
The first quadrille assembly at Gundagai, on
Wednesday week, was a pronounced success.
# * *
The Romanys are to lose their right hand, and
Burwood is to be the scene, in a few days, of some very
high-toned wedding festivities. One of the daughters
of Mr. Thomas Eobertson is to be led to the altar by
Mr. Hotham, to whom New South Wales, we are
assured, owes all the prominence she won at the Mel-
bourne International Exhibition. Mr. llotham is a
nephew of the late Sir Charles Hotham, formerly
Governor of Victoria.
# * *
Last night (Wednesday), at the School of Arts,
Kempsey, a farewell ball, for which 100 invitations had
been issued, was given to Mr. A. H. Clapin.
* # *
To-night, at “ Eyresbury,” Mrs. J. B. Watt
entertains 150 guests. Mrs. Hall, of " Dartbrook,"
Aberdeen, has issued 100 invitations for a ball at her
residence—also for this (Thursday) evening.
* # *
There may have been more brilliant balls in
Sydney than the one given by the citizens to Mayor
Harris on Tuesday, but there could scarcely be a more
enjoyable one. The ball was not a “ fancy" affair, and
as we have not served an apprenticeship to the milli-
nery profession we at once gave up any attempt to
describe the costumes in detail. Many of the hand-
somest dresses were worn by the wives of members of
the municipal and legislative bodies, who did not dance
much. The dress of the Mayoress (pink satin) was
very rich. The new shaded satins of all colours were a
good deal worn. In the early part of the evening there
was no crowding, the building being just comfortably
full; and, later on, the space was more than ample, so
that even those vigorous Terpsichoreans whose
abilities could never have a fair chance for display
in anything less than a small paddock, managed
to gyrate without doing any particular harm.
Although the fine free action of some of these people
would show to best advantage, say, in a football field,
still, even in a ball-room, their presence adds one charm
—that of variety. That is the only charm it has. There
was a great number of prominent citizens, well-known
faces being seen on every hand. Parliament sent a
strong contingent. Sir John Eobertson looked the
spirit of rejuvenescence. Mr. Baker was there looking
very resigned. Sir Patrick was portly and imposing.
Very noticeable was “ the good grey head which all
men knew," of Sir John Hay. Pew older men in the
room—fewer still half so handsome. “ Our John ” was
there, of course, and his smile has lost none of its in-
effable sweetness. His invitation had not been forgotten.
Mr. Critchett Walker danced assiduously, and well.
The Postmaster-General danced, also. Mr. Dan O’Con-
nor shed “a light, a lustre, and a luminosity " on the
scene, and improved the shining hours with considerable
energy. No one knows better than Capt. Dan how to keep
the fun going, and an “ aldermanio polka ” (this is his
own expression) is a very lively one under his manage-
ment. The naval and military element was very small.
When the Mayor arrived, he marched up a long avenue
of guests to the far end of the building, to the strains
of “ See, the Conquering Hero Comes," preceded by
Sir Patrick, and followed by—well, anyone who was
ambitions of participating in the reflected municipal
glory. His Worship, clothed in purple and fine linen,
went through the ordeal very majestically, supported
by an alderman on each side, and smiled benignantly as
they perched him "high on a throne of royal state"
on the platform. The presentation of a suite of jewel-
lery to the Mayoress by Mrs. Dorvall, later on in the
evening, was not very exciting. There was room only
for a few to witness it. One lady read a few sentences
while she handed over the present, and the other read
a few sentences in reply; there was crushing
upon the platform by those who got there, and
grumbling down below from those who couldn't get
there, a great deal of curiosity, a few milk-and-water
hoorays" ;—and then the ball rolled on. The present
was a very beautiful one, and the jewellery was at once
put on by Mr. Harris. The rendezvous were named
after the termini of 'bus lines, not euphonious names,
perhaps, but suitable to the occasion. The decorations
were exceptionally good and lavish, the lighting well
managed, the band in the fountain hidden in leafy
seclusion, and the lounges and nooks well arranged.
The card rooms had very few occupants. Opinions
differed as to whether the programmes were pretty or
not. They were larger than is usual, specially designed
in blue and gold, bearing a picture of the Town Hall
(barring the foundations), likenesses of the Mayor and
Mayoress on one side, and a bird’s-eye view of the
whole city, suburbs and harbour on the other, beauti-
fully executed in miniature. Inside were Australian
coats of arms, with the mottoes, “ Advance Austra-
lia," and “I take but I surrender." Seven waltzes
were provided. Messrs. Needs and Son, as M’s. C.,
had a light task, and the Young Australian
Band played their best. Some dancers thought the
music at times too slow, but Mr. Needs was
strict in his injunctions to the band to play at
moderate speed, and many thought the change a great
improvement. The catering was faultless, the space
under both galleries, instead of one only, being devoted
to refreshments—and the waiters were civil and smart.
The “ cloakists” deserve equal praise. To describe the
ladies dresses would be an endless task, and to describe
some would be to leave out others that equally merited
notice—which would not be just. We are nothing if
not honest, and so we choose the only honest course.
It’s a neat way of escaping a terrible task.
Cooper’s Creek —the name, even yet, is sugges-
tive of little else than the death-plaoe of Burke and
Wills. It is at Cooper’s Creek that to-day we find a
new illustration of Australia being nature’s paradox.
•* A paradox, a paradox, a most ingenious paradox."
Where the explorers failed to find subsistence suffici-
ently nutritious to revive their exhausted energies,
there is to-day seen to he natural resources which will
repay the investment of a quarter million sterling.
Cooper’s Creek, erst a sound of death, has been changed
by time into a name of promise. Since the last days of
Burke and Wills, what a change. Railways extend
their tendrils within a few score miles of the tree-
under which the explorer lay down to die. The sup-
posed desert assumes, thanks to improved knowledge,
a reality of fruitfulness. Australians have learned
that wherever rain falls water can be stored for all
purposes. Fortunes have been won on the grassy
plains over which the footsore explorers plodded their
despondent retreat, and fortunes yet remain to be won.
With that purpose a company has been formed to work
a little station of 6832 square miles in the vicinity of
Cooper’s Creek. Nearly millions of acres. A Principa-
lity ; only no living prince owns such an appanage all to
himself. The particulars are on another page.
BRIEF MENTION.
It is suggestive to see posted in a tobacco fao-
tory : “ No smoking allowed here.”
The Camden coach, they say, required a Skid-
The Camden people hung on little Kidd.
Pastor Allan is right after all. Joshua was the
son of a Nun. Tide Dan. on Convents.
The lad who “ serves Mass” in Golong on Sun-
days “ serves" during the week grog to the unwashed.
Both spiritual duties.
The fourth estate is looking up in Queanbeyan.
One of the editors now wears four-button kid gloves
and diamond jewellery.
Ezekiel, the prophet, had a vision of bones, but
another Ezekiel had a vision of bonus. We therefore
say: Bones, bonus, bonum.
At Gympie there is a man who commenced
business as a bootmaker. His sign now calls him a
" foot-gear manufacturer.”
A handsome barmaid to attend to the new bar
in the record room of the Q.P.O. will be advertised for
in next Government Gazette.
The “ Brevities ” in the Tea-time Pie-wrap
are now called "nips,” and the leaders "long beers.”
And so journalists achieve fame.
The Sydney Corporation is the politest body in
the world. Even when they take proceedings against
swindlers they are invariably “ civil.”
At Gympie there is a speculative parson who
spends most of his stipend in claims. When he buys
shares his cheques read “ Pay Church.”
The effects of the Queanbeyan Cricket Club
were auctioned, the other day, for the mean sum of
£2 135., which won’t satisfy the club’s debts.
It used to be with Dick Thatcher -. “ Hallo, old
man, how are you ? What will you have ?” Now, it is:
“ How do ? Come and get tight at my pub.”
At the Church of England, Maryborough (N.Q.),
a fresh organist has just been installed, who is so very
high Church that he flatly objects to play the low notes.
Alderman John Young has procured the ap-
pointment of a committee to investigate various
matters connected with the Corporation. We like
his tile.
The circulation of a funny paper in the Maitland
district is 480— exactly the number of the servant-girls
and discharged gatekeepers to be found round about
the district.
Another man has been charged with having
Government rope in his possession. Fined £5. Some
of these days these chaps will fail to cheat the hangman
out of his rope.
A cackling goose from dire portenting ills
Saved the proud city of the Seven Hills j
In New South wales to break the Lethean spell
History repeats itself in O. Waddell.
Up Port Macquarie way they have a Chinaman
who has been converted to Methodism. Young and old.
girls visiting this precious brand at his residence in a
secluded part of the bush excites comment.
When the Hobart Monopolist desires to put
the screw on any member of the Tasmanian Parliament
of a too-enquiring mind, it threatens to report him ver-
batim. The threat appears to be all-sufficient.
How is it that there is up-country—as well as
in ’Sydney—one law for the rich and another for the
poor? Surely a J.P. who is brought before the bench
for drunkenness should be fined more than ss. Should
he not be struck off the roll ?
“ Why do we send the locally-grown tobacco
down to Sydney ? ” repeated a provincial manufacturer
to a journalistic inquirer —" Why, how else, in the name
of heavings are we to get our prime Virginian leaf—
specially imported ? ” Ac. Ac.
On Friday last, an unfeeling act was committed
in Oxford-street. The driver of a spring-cart collided
with a milk-cart, and upset it. The hardened offender
drove away without even offering to tow his victim to
the nearest pump to renew stock.
There is an unpleasant rumour that the experi-
mental borings in the Botany dams have knocked a
hole in the original holding bottom, and that, instead
of fresh supplies of water springing up, the present
supplies of water are draining away down.
Mr. Benson, illusionist and ventriloquist, was
on Monday awarded £750 damages from the Commis-
sioner for Railways for injuries received at the
Katoomba collision. This seems heavy, especially as
Benson saved his voice by throwing it into the next
carriage.
A man who dates from Belgrave Terrace,
Darlinghurst, writes: “I read that a young lady
recently died with a guitar in her hands. If the
musical people next door will kindly die soon with
their cornets in their hands, the neighbours will be
much obliged."
After the recent mining mania, Gympie would
have been in the gutter had not some Sydney specula-
tors come to the rescue. They plunged recklessly to
the tune of 30 shares in an 8000-share company, and
yet they say that Sydney people have no confidence in
Gympie mining.
It appears that the Town Hall foundations are
not the only ones which have been scamped. Recent o pera -
tions at another very large public building, not belong-
ing to the Municipality, have disclosed, we hear, that
only one in three of the large foundation stringers have
been bolted top and sides.
Editors of society papers in N.Z. often get into
trouble. Half-a-dozen people entered the Libertt
(Christchurch) office the other day, and proceeded to
exact “ bodily satisfaction ” from the editor and
proprietor, who made things lively for them, but got a
good deal smashed up before the assailants left.
An alderman entered the office of another
alderman the other day, and found him engaged in an
altercation with one of his clerks. “ What’s up,”’
enquired the visitor when the row had ceased and the
clerk had gone away. “ Merely ’ee’s been givin’ me too
much cheek, so I turns round and gives him his
conger.”
Sir William Fox and Mr. Dick, of N.Z., are very
innocent people. In bringing in the Gaming Bill, the
latter said that in Dunedin “he had frequently noticed
a number of men standing outside hotel doors, like
poachers watching for prey. He understood they were
called bookmakers.” Even parsons could be taken down
in this way.
The N.Z. Press Association, a combination of
newspaper proprietors, is formed something after the
same style as the N.Y. Associated Press, referred to
in a par. some three or four weeks ago. To join as a
member, £5OO security must be given. This is done to
cripple all who may wish to start a newspaper, and also,
prevent opposition.
Saturday’s PennvNuisance reports in its Bris-
bane telegrams that “the horse-jumping contest caused
much interest. An old lady was knocked down in-
sensible by one of the horses.” The Banana men do-
seem, we allow, to know how to work up the interes
But, after all, their horse-jumping is nothing compared
with our tramways.
Tasmania is a lovely spot. Its girls are pretty :
its salmon is nearly the real article; its climate the
Sing, sing, and sweetly, Muse divine,
The nuptials of Charley Lyne !
And let, in each iambic, be
The trill of Montagu’s “ high C.”
This is but fit, Thalia, we swear.
For ’tis a most “ high-toned ” affair.
The bride—shall we describe her ?—ah !
A task this is beyond ns far !
Think of the lovely lily, and
You’ll think the colour of her hand;
The rose call to your memory—
The sweetest rose—and that is she!
Upon the wedding morn the sun
Shone down on nearly ev’ry one
(We don’t say all, or else, d’ye see,
We should offend the C.M.G.).
Newcastle’s people all were out.
And briskly blew the coal about.
The wedding o’er, why, we declare,
That Fletcher, M.P., took the chair—
Now, in the world, what greater bliss
Could bride and bridegroom ask than this'!
The Krug was there—the proper label;
And beer was banished from the table.
The sweet bride’s health—then many a tear;
The bridegroom’s health —then many a cheer;
And Fletcher spread—you should have seen—
nick on the oleomargarine !
More cheers, and then round comes the “ shay,”
Some rice, and, whoop 1 they’re both away.
3
August 20, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


grandest in the world; but when will its wise men
remember that the little Island is, of all places on the
civilized globe, the least important, the most insignifi-
cant, and, lastly, the least known ? We, of N.S.W., can
afford to give hints of this kind.
There has been agitation at Temora owing to a
report that the water in one of the dams was polluted
by a dead man being in it. Calmness has now been
restored by the announcement in the Temora Herald
(Bailey|s Phoenix) that it is only a cow’s corpse. This
correction came just in time. People were beginning
to object to drinking the water.
The gang of bottle thieves who employ a small
army of boys, and bring them up to their dirty busi-
ness, are to get a salutary check put upon their depre-
dations. Three firms of|aerated water manufacturers lose
some two thousands a year by the annexing proclivi-
ties, of these rascals and it is proposed to bring in a bill
to license dealers and have their yards under proper
supervision.
A N.Z. gentleman bought some land from
Natives, and gave them a promissory note. The house
in which the Maori lived who had the note was burned
down, and the note was lost. The gentleman went to
the Maori and said, “What have you done with my
note ? You have let it be burned. You will have to
return me the full amount;" and he got the full
amount.
The Anglicans of Gympie are labouring under a
serious difficulty. The head of the flock has started a
sort of 1.0.G.T. organization, divided into two sects—
one the “total abstainers” and the other the “Chris-
tian moderation ’’ people. The clergyman belongs to
the latter and the members are trying to find out what
really is “ Christian moderation,” as the congregation
disagree on the point.
John Stuart Mill thought he knew all about
Political Economy, but he never had the gigantic intel-
lect to persuade the fruit market stall-holders of
lioudon to present the Royal Family with a few hundred
dozen of their best wares, and then draft them over to
Windsor Castle with his own compliments. Mill was a
great philosopher at heme, but he didn’t know enough
to enable him to keep a skittle-alley over here.
There is a big row in the Queensland Customs
Department. A. certain Sub-Collector at a Northern
port has been brought to book for charging his em-
ployers, the Government, for “ labour in attending to
temples of Venus Cloacena belonging to department."
It turns out that the Sub-Collector and his brother
were the labourers. The latter complains that the
red-tape man pocketed the cash “to his own cheek.”
Last Sunday, a suburban clergyman urged his
hearers not to leave the consideration of spiritual
matters till they lay on their dying-beds, “as some
men are in the habit of doing." The cat gets the credit
of having nine lives, but a habitual expirer is some-
thing even more mysterious. Surely it would be to the
advantage of the undertaking fraternity to encourage
the propagation of that species to which the rev. gentle-
man referred.
A few bon-vivants met the other day at host
Hadley’s in Hobart, Tasmania, to discuss the merits of a
salmon. The Mercury tells us there was quite sufficient
fish for two helpings to those who desired it. The liba-
tions were copious, and so were the speeches. The
Mercury went frantic in its joy. The editor was not
at the feed; but next day it turned out that the fish
was an English salmon, brought to Melbourne by one
of the Orient steamers.
When they last played “ Elijah,” the oratorio,
in Sydney, a man from Yass, seeing the performance
largely billed, went to see it. When he got back to his
hotel, he was asked by his landlord how he liked it.
“ It’s the most fearful bosh you ever saw,” he returned
indignantly—“ there was no fighting, nothing to laugh
at; and the worst part of it all was that —what’s his
name who was printed so big in the bill ?—just fancy 1
—he never turned up at all."
Moore, of The Bulletin Hotel, is a most
facetious fellow, and a cute. He takes the dingo on
exhibition in the hotel, into the bar, opens his mouth,
thrusts in his neck, and gets up a seemingly terrific
combat with the dawg. The bystanders recommend gin
and other spirits to rub on the wounds received, and
pay for them. The performance is repeated to fresh
audiences every half-hour. The animal has already
drawn a case of grin and a keg of rum.
A new soprano has just burst forth with her
stream of song. Lately, one Mdlle. Emma Jack has
been enchanting the auricular appendages (of the New
Yorkers, and now she is fast subduing London. By-
and-bye she will visit Sydney, and the “ much-
travelled” will bill her forth as Mdlle. St. John.
“Jack" is scarcely “yearning” enongh to attract the
“ ultra-poetical, snper-sesthetical, out-of-the-way ’’
young sparks of Sydney. They are “ Jack" on all
things plebiau.
Under the heading “ Society,” the readers of
the Auckland Observer are treated to such brilliant
and strikingly original pars, as the following,
which we clip from a late issue: —“ ‘ Doctor’ Coupland
looked very well in his long-tailed blue on Sunday.
.... The fair-haired tenor of St. Matthew’s has left for
the South Jack Balneavis is still surveying Gis-
borne." And this is exactly the kind of rubbish with
which every paper yet started In “imitation" of The
Bulletin nauseates its readers.
Says the “ suok-in” edition of Friday’s Nooze :
—“ The victim of the tramway accident this morning is
still in a very dangerous condition at the Infirmary, and
unless a relapse takes place shortly, his recovery is con-
sidered hopeless." Will the gentleman who stole
Alfred’s dictionary, on Thursday last, kindly “ relapse"
the same to the owner at once, as the evening journal
is now at a perfect standstill. The culprit is well
known, and unless the book is returned before the 19th
ultimo, he will be at once arrested, and carefully
persecuted.
The Wattle Bark City Muffin Munchers met
last Tuesday to appoint a committee, who would (so
theyjsaid) send Sir ’Enery and his new Licensing Bill to
—well, quarantine. After the cake and eau de vie had
been energetically discussed. Brother Cherry-picker—
who had much difficulty in preserving his equilibrium
—proposed. “Thash she pizenesa—(hie!)—os she even—
(hie !)—ing be proshee—(hid)—ed wish." Upon which
Brother Grogblossom politely told him to “ Shug (hie !)
up, haug bill; wese going—(hie I) —maze night oze it."
And they did.
It is related ef a certain very religious man
who runs a school in Sydney that he a little while ago
offered a shilling te every boy who would find out the
name of Moses' mother. The pedagogue was under
the impression that the name of the lady in question
was not mentioned in Holy Writ—in fact, he thought
he was “ betting on a certainty.” However, the name
was found out by one of the youngsters, who also dis-
played his generosity by informing all his class-mates,
who in their turn passed the word on. The youngsters
are now wondering when the distribution of those
■“ bobs" will take place.
If “Capting ” Dowie and his “ Salvation speci-
ality troupe ” are not engaged at present, they would
stand a good show of doing a fair “ biz.” down about
South Sydney. Sunday amusements out there are very
mild just now, being chiefly confined to cock-fights and
the racing of 2 40 milk-carts on the Roman chariot prin-
ciple. The “ Tambour-Major,” by John’s company,
would draw like a three-star mustard poultice; the
wicked would be turned from their evil ways; every
sister could sport a pair of diamond ear-rings, and every
brother could have his boots half-soled and heeled, and
make himself otherwise presentable for the Dies Iroe.
Major Smith, late Minister of Mines and Educa-
tion in Victoria, tells a capital story at his own expense.
A crowd of people was collected in Sturt-street, Ballarat,
one day, watching the manceuvies of a horse which
objected to go in the saddle, but which quite approved
of the shafts. The efforts of the rider to get the recal-
citrant animal to “gee” were without avail, and a wag in
the crowd suggested that the Major should mount. He
did so, and no sooner did his toes touch the fore-quarters
of the animal than it went off at a splendid trot. The
explanation is that the Major wears size 14 in boots,
and that the horse really thought he was between
shafts.
Speaking of “ that procession” rumpus, Alfred
jumps up as excitedly as if he had just sat down in a
plate of hot soup with his spring pants on, and indig-
nantly tells us :—“ No one can suppose for an instant
that any blame attaches to Sir John Robertson, who
promised the committee to assist, or to Mr. Critchett,
who caused a considerable amount of clerical work to
to be done for them.” That’s all right, Alfredo caro —
but who the Clontarf or Gehenna is Mr. Critchett! ?
It’s no use trying to drag a fresh man into this mess,
friend Alf, and so when you begin to prate about Mr.
Critohett we make our exit, and softly murmur —
Walker.
This is a solemn fact. The Aldermen went on
board the Bacchante, the other day, for the last time,
to pay their “devours” to the Princes. After partak-
ing of some wine, one of the cockaded fraternity went
up to the elder of the distinguished young gentlemen,
and addressed him thus:—“Tour Boyal Highness, I
had the pleasure of speakin’ to Her Majesty your
grandmother, at a place in Scotland, when I was to
home a few years ago. And now I must say good-bye.
Remember me to your grandmother, your Royal
Highness.” Edward, we are told, said he wouldn’t for-
get, and tied a knob on his pocket handkerchief to re-
mind him.—■jufiH .h uoia |
Journeying, some days since, to the once-famous
Sofala, we were shown by that obliging Jehu, Jim
Rowe—who, by the way, has bean “ tooling ” on this
road for 18 years—a tumble-down shanty which, in the
palmy days of Wattle flat, was known as the “ Globe”
Hotel. After remaining empty for a number of years, a
“ soft ’un," as his neighbours termed him at the time,
was found to purchase the shanty and grounds for the
modest sum of £lOO. The purchaser first turned his
attention to the flooring of the old house, had it care-
fully raised, and was rewarded for his diligence with
over £4O worth of gold dust and coin. Thousands of
ponnds are said to have been swallowed in this house.
| (Southern land and .estate agents know their
way about. A certain sea-captain, trading to JM.Z,,
determined to sell his little estate it he could get a fair
price for it. He asked £3500, and a neighbour was de-
liberating upon the advisability of giving that sum for
it. At this juncture, in pops a land agent, who advises
the captain to stick out for his price. He then ap-
proaches the hesitating purchaser, and suggests getting
the property at much less. Finally, ha concludes the
bargain for £3250, and deducts £32 10s. commission
for his “ services.” Of course there is a taste of felony
about the transaction, but it wouldn’t suit the simple
mariner to set the law in motion—so the shark bites
with impunity.
Even disappointed sharks have their consola-
tions. Last week a litte arrangement (or shall we say
conspiracy ?) was got up for the benefit of a “fellah who’s
a swellah,” and hitherto has had plenty of coin. The
affair came off very nicely—the victim was fooled to the
S ® V6ral by
f 13 , ccy S atne ’ and when the hour
“ f eques . w ' tb Praiseworthy
with the hated letters “NS tl ;‘ rn ® < h however, marked
l i W course there was
wailing' amongst the boys, not unmixed with a
soapcoti of cursing; but when the repinings were loudest
oue of the school exclaimed. “ Never Sind 'whata
lovely soakkar he would be ,f he had it 1"
. ,
Is it anyone s business to see that the seats in
Hyde Park are built and kept in such a manner as to
enable them to be used by Our Boys and Our Girls with
any degree of comfort and security ? If it is, why
doesn’t the said “ anyone ’’ attend to the present dis-
graceful state of the seats ? It is simply painful to walk
along the principal track on this Park after dark, and
watch the frantic efforts which young gentlemen are
compelled to make to keep their fair partners from
slipping off these lounges. It is only by clutching the
lady round the waist with both hands, and holding on
to the seat by the other that serious accidents are now
prevented. We trust we will not have to allude to this
very undesirable state of things “ some more.”
In front of Barron and Moxham’a store in York-
street there is a capital iron statue of a little “nigger
boy," with one hand elevated and pointing eastwards.
The piccaniny is bare-headed, tastefully clad in chamois-
leather trousers, a tin shirt, and a pair of bare feet, and
he is placed there so that customers may hitch their
horses to his hand. Having good-naturedly explained
all this, we next proceed to observe that about 9p.m.
on " that procession ’’ occasion a certain member of the
Upper Ten walked up to the little iron “ nigger," and
said " Shonny, whishis way to Pfohlert’s Hotel ?” Just
then he noticed the darkey’s hand pointing across the
square, and looking over in that direction, he thankfully
observed “ Sho ’tis—Hearsh half-crown —run bay lollies
—an’ get y’r hat on too, shonny, coz ish awful hot in
shun to-day—l fine sho myself,” The early bird picked
up that half-crown next day, and the donor’s name is—
(to be continued in our next).
Far away in the Never Never country there
resided a Police Magistrate who held Court at stated
terms, in the usual bush Court-house, with the ther-
mometer marking the usual 104. This P.M. had been
an officer in Her Majesty’s Service—had seen the world,
and, like Justice Shallow, had heard the chimes at mid-
night. He found it dull in Arcadia, and did as many
others—consoled himself with that prince of good fel-
lows, Jim Hennessy. And sometimes Jim retarded the
course of Justice. An unfortunate shearer-himself
well-shorn of his hard-earned cheque—was brought be-
fore the worthy P>M for boing d l runk and diso “ derly>
and generally making things lively The sergeant gave
eviden ce. and so did Boniface and the young lady. The
Court qwaitprl thp sivirn? of the Cantain Tho hlna
L°*ii awaited the saying or tne captain. me blue-
aa b uzzed-but no voice was heard. The sergeant,
«* dr « B3l V£ the . Court ,;. “Worship, what shall we
do with the prisoner ? The response came, deep and
sonorous : “ Oh, hang the beggar—hang him.” " But,
your Worship —(still stage whispering)—it is a case of
drunk and disorderly.” “ What! drunk and disorderly,
orl lv—in a place like this! What else would y’ave ?
Dishmish prisoner.”
Victory’s Veteran.
Morpeth takes the prize for living novelties. In a neat
little cottage on its broad and beautiful highway dwells
a hero of “Nile’s proud fight”—that battle of Tra-
falgar where England’s greatest warrior fell, and
England’s greatest victory was won. William Thomas
Cook, whose portrait we give to day, is the little old
man of the roadside cottage at Morpeth, whose life
spans an epoch of eighty-six years, and links the dull
dreary present to the glorious past. No matter if
Cook was but ten years old when that great battle was
fought, and played the part all through of only a powder-
monkey, he fought side by side with Nelson, and saw
him fall; he served those very guns which belched
destruction on the enemy, and wound up a glorious
day by bleeding for his country; for the very same
marksmen in the rigging of the French ship who sealed
Nelson’s fate cut open the youngster’s forehead with a
whistling bullet, which sent him for a time to the
cockpit. Those seventy-six years which have intervened
since that great fight have seen many great changes,
but few, however, in old Cookie. He’s much the same
now that he was then : true, he’s slightly bent, and his
hair has been grey these forty years, yet he is still
active, walks many miles a day—when in the humour —
is always in good spirits, speaks clearly, has a good
recollection, and clear little sparkling blue eyes which
enable him to read the smallest print without the aid
of spectacles. The history of Old Cookie—they never
call him Cook round about Morpeth—is full of interest.
He was bom on the 27th October, 1795, and, at the age of
eight years, ran away to join the Enchantress, then
a receiving ship, lying in the King’s Hoad, Bristol
Channel. In a few days fie Enchantress sailed
round to Plymouth. A drafting took place, and the
boatswain, Parker, who was exceedingly kind to young
Cookie, was, with several others, told oil to form the
crew of the Palace brig, then one of the smartest
vessels afloat under British colours. Cookie was not to
go, but Parker decided otherwise, and, sending the
youngster below, smuggled him through the porthole
of the Enchantress, and stowed him away under the
sheets of the boat, then lying alongside, waiting to
take off Captain Laurence and his wife to the brig
This little vessel having received her complement of
men, soon after set sail. Within a week she fell into
the company of two Dutchmen, gave them battle, and
captured them. Then a French vessel was sighted,
and, after a long chase, the Palace came up with her,
and after a hot contest of four hours, compelled her
to strike her colours. She proved to be a fine
frigate of twenty-flvo brass guns and two heavy deck
swivel guns. All through the battle young Cookie
remained below with the Captain’s wife, and
every now and then, when the Frenchmen would reply
with a broadside and the shot would come rattling
aboard, the kind lady, thinking less of herself than the
boy, would take the youngster up in her arms to pro-
tect him, assuring him each time that they must soon
give in. Subsequently a French yacht was run in to the
Port of Algiers, and a call was made for volunteers to
cut her out. Here are Old Cookie’s words about this
event: —“ You know that’s the most dangerous work of
all. Numbers are bound to die. Well, when there was
a call for volunteers—will you believe me?—the men
tumbled over one another, choked the gangway, and
well nigh swamped the boat. I see it all before me now
—just as if the captain had only given the order, and
the men were running up. Many of them never came
back—brave lads. Several of them fell into the water
never to rise again. The boats returned unsuccessful.”
After this the brig struck ground while cruising off the
Isle of France, and rough weather setting in, she began
to leak, and all efforts to save her were futile.
Calling all hands aft, the captain informed his
men of the condition of affairs, and it was
agreed that to save life the vessel should
be run into the French port. As the vessel
neared and showed signals of distress, there was a
great stir on the land. The hill-sides were covered with
soldiers running to the boats, and these, with the civi-
lians equally eager to get on to the English vessel,
made up a pretty lively scene, almost every boat in tbe
harbour being pressed into the service. Just at that
moment, two vessels showed in the offing, and they
proved to be the British men-of-war, Leander and
Queen Charlotte. Captain Laurence wore his brig a
little, to enable the vessels to effect a rescue, and the
Queen Charlotte, bearing down, relieved her. Direc-
tions were given from the Leander that the Palace
should be blown up, and accordingly a train was laid to
her magazine, and a lighted torch placed in the hold.
Immediately the crew deserted her, the French boats,
laden with soldiers and civilians, put off and took
session of the derelict, and, to the amusement of the
English (who were now three leagues off), the French
soldiers in the rigging kept up a brisk musketry fire
Their possession of the vessel was brief, for in half-ai -
hour she blew up with a terrific explosion, and into the
air in fragments were scattered the host of unsuspect-
ing beings who were carousing over their prize. Old
Cookie says he believes he saw some of the debris of the
vessel and its living freight falling an hour afterward .
Fully 500 people perished. The crew of the brig were
landed at Plymouth, and young Cookie, with several
others, was drafted, to the Victory, Captain Hardy,
then preparing for sea, and awaiting orders. “A good,
kind man was Captain Hardy,” says Cookie now. “He
took to me wonderfully well, and kept me in the cabin.
Had he been my own father, he couldn’t have been
kinder." Nelson chose the Victory as his flagship, and,
as with Captain Hardy, so with Lord Nelson, young
Cookie made great headway. “Nelson,” says Cookie,
“ wasn’t so much to look at, and had only one eye; but,
believe me, there was more in that one eye than you’d
a’most see in any other two. He was very kind to all
his men, but stern, and was a great disciplinarian.
He and Captain Hardy were fast friends. Like
brothers, a’most. He would never do anything
without consulting ‘ his friend, Hardy.’ ” Nelson was
greatly amused at young Cookie’s recountal o f his efforts
to get to sea. The sailing of the squadron and the
battle of Trafalgar are matters of history. Cookie
speaks of the condition of affairs on the Victory all
through the fight. Nelson was brave and resolute, but
an unaccountable sadness seemed to have come over
him. The musketry fire from the rigging of the French
vessel told very heavily at one time on the Victory’s
crew, but throughout the affair, amidst the roar of
broadsides and the crash of whizzing shot, there was.
Cookie says, an entire absence of hurry, unsteadiness,
or anxiety on the Victory, the men appearing to feel
that it was only a matter of time when the enemy would
surrender. “ The men wanted very little cheering,”
says old Cookie, “but Captain Hardy and Nelson
were there to do it; and the men did fight, and the
boys were quicker with their powder than ever was
known before. We all worked: we all fought. I was
one of the boys who escaped with only a slight wound,
just over the right temple. A fellow—one of the
rascals that did for Nelson—up aloft in a Frenchman,
shot me; but I was soon at work again. Some people
wanted to say it was one of our own men that picked
Nelson off, but don’t you believe it: there wasn’t a
man aboard our ship that wouldn’t have died for
him. He was as gentle as a lamb, but a down-
right hero—a big heart, and awfully fond of sailors.
And we were terribly cut-up when we knew he was
dead. I believe we were ready to fight the battle over
again. But it was all over; and we had to look after one
of our own vessels and some of the enemy. Was there
any fear on board? Never even dreamt of it. Ab,
them were the times!—ha! ha! ha!” Thus does old
Cookie recount the incidents of the glorious fight of
Trafalgar. “There’s life in the old dog yet." Old
Cookie is cheerful, and always eager to speak of the
past. He refers with pride to his being one of those in
favour on board the Victory, who were permitted to
drive a nail in the diamond-shaped piece of copper
placed on the deck of that vessel to indicate the spot
where Nelson fell. He adds that, on returning to Eng-
land, he was paid off. He came to this colony in 1820,
and has been 46 years a resident of the Hunter. He is
active and enjoys good health. For the past, ten years
he has taken, with great regularity, three glasses daily
of overproof rum, for which he pays 4)d., instead of the
ruling 3d.—an example which, it is to be hoped, will not
be lost on all Good Templars.|
“OLD COOKIE,” A NAVAL VETERAN.
“The Bulletin” Prize for the Best Equestrienne at Singleton show.
No. 1.—The winner. No. 2.—The girl who unfortunately arrived too late to attempt.


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Parramatta August 20.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club August 20.
August 24, 25.
Hawkesbury R.C. Annual August 25, 27.
A J.C. Spring Meeting September 3,6, 8,10.
Cooktown September?. 8.
Northern Jockey Club September 14,15
Murrurundi September 21.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Adelaide September 24.
Maryborough & Carisbook (Vic ) T. C... September 29,30.
Adelaide October 6, 7.
Wollongong October 12,13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13,15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Kensington Park October 22.
Victoria R.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (Vic.) November 6.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
Queensland T. C November 9, 10.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24 , 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 24. 25.
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J-C. Summer Meeting December.
AQUATICS.
Jj sfc .. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Ross August,
Bush v. Laycock August 26,
Walker Whisky Trophy September, 5,7, 9.
Champion Fours, Maryborough, (Q.) September 9,
Triokettv. Boyd September.
Elliott v Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
Melbourne Rowing Club Umphelby
Challenge Cup September 21
M. Trial Fours October 8.
Sportsman Challenge Cup, 200 guineas—New-
castle- on-Tyne October.
Public Schools' Race—Mayor’s Trophy October 5.
N. Rowing Association Regatta October 8,15.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Martin v. Morgan, 100 yards, £lO0 —Associa-
tion Ground August 22.
T. Allen v. T. Lloyd, 100 yards August 27.
Six Days’ Go-as-you-Please—Sydney September 5.
Sheffield Handicap—Norwood Park September 15.
COURSING.
Victoria Club August 18.
Bathurst August 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Only 14 horses declared forfeit for the Mel-
bourne Cup.
An amateur sculling championship of New Zea-
land is to be instituted.
Ross withdrew from the match with Morris as
they could not agree on terms.
Weiss has been matched to play Joseph Byrne
a game at billiards, 1000 up, for £lOO a-side.
The first snipe of the season was shot on Satur-
day morning by Mr. F. Gannon of Cook’s River.
A sculling match, over the Lower Yarra course,
is being arranged between James Cazaly and R. Wing.
The stallion Flying Perfection was purchased at
Colao, by Messrs. Wyer and Hudson, Darling River, for
£330.
The Parramatta Alfred Cricket Club are making
arrangements for a two days’ match with the English
eleven.
Mr. M. H. Christoe, while playing in the foot-
ball match, Newcastle v. East Maitland, had his right
leg broken,
Abe Davis was fined .£25 by the stewards at
Wyndham race meeting, for giving the wrong name of
one of his boys.
The Victorian Tattersall’s Club, following the
example of the Sydney Club, intends to have a day’s
meeting shortly.
The Mercantile Club has won 302 prizes since
its inauguration. This year, in eight events started for,
eight wins were secured.
St. Leonard’s v. Arfoma Football Clubs, at
Petersham, on Saturday, resulted in a draw, each side
securing two touch-downs.
The committee of the Mercantile Rowing Club
banqueted their captain, Mr. W. R. Benson, at Parra-
matta, last Saturday evening.
Mr. Walter Bradley received, on Thursday, a
number of English perch, forwarded to the Zoological
Society by the Mayor of Ballarat.
At a sale of Her Majesty’s yearlings, at Hamp-
ton, the total sum realised was 6195 guineas, or an
average of a fraction over 199 guineas.
Young Beckwith and Jones will swim a 500
yards match on September 3, and a 1000 yards match a
week later. The stakes amount to £4OO.
Another touch-down. A youth named George
Boighton had his collar bone broken on Thursday after-
noon at Newcastle while playing football.
At a meeting of Volunteer officers in Melbourne,
it was resolved to hold the annual military sports, as
usual, in October, on the M.C.C. Ground.
Mr. Martin Keating, of the Kildare Hotel,
Moruya, has purchased the splendid stallion, Young
muir Laid, from Mr Andrew Town, for 190 guineas.
The Nimrod Fishing Club had an outing on
Friday last. The catch, amouuting to about 350
schnapper and other fish, was not so large as usual.
Brian Boru, after his running on Saturday last,
should appropriate the Hawkesbury Handicap. Like
Grand Flaneur, he has won every race he started for.
Mata was disqualified by the Auckland Racing
Club, but not by the Canterbury Club, so that the
events of the south of New Zealand are still open for
him.
At the Ballarat pigeon match, Mr. Hunt won
the first prize with 24 points, Messrs. Smith and J.
Hack divided second and third prizes with 21 points
each.
The football match, University v. King’s School,
at Parramatta Park, on Saturday, resulted in an easy
victory for the University, by two goals and four tries
to nil,
Mr. Comyns, manager of the Bank of Aus-
tralasia at Creswick, while hunting with the Ballarat
hounds on Saturday, fell from his horse and fractured
his skull.
The University and Newington Football Clubs
met at Stanmore on Wednesday the 10th inst. The re-
suit was a victory for the champions by one goal and
two tries to nil,
A football match at Windsor on Saturday, be-
tween the Second Oriental and Windsor Clubs, resulted
m a victory for Windsor by one goal and three tries to
°ne goal and one try.
George Bonnor, of the late Australian Eleven,
and known in English cricketing circles as the Austra-
jmn Giant, has seceded from Sydney, and joined the
Melbourne Cricket Club.
The Melbourne Hunt Club hold their meeting
October Ist. The programme consists of
anurale race, two steeplechases, and three flat races,
■entries close on 12th September.
The pyramid match between H. Haines and
"Siss (the Corowa youth), for £2OO a-side, played at
the Theatre Royal Caf<s Rooms, Melbourne, resulted in
favour of Weiss, by 11 games to 9.
At the Queensland Show, Bell and Sons took
first prize for blood stallions, and Wienholt Bros, and
J. H. Deeprat for heavy draught stallions. Macansh
took a number of prizes for fat cattle.
A rifle match between the Volunteer Artillery
Club and the Torpedo Club on Saturday, at the Pad-
dington range, resulted in a victory for the latter club
by 7 points, the scores being. Torpedo 346, Artillery
339.
A football club under the rules of the N.S.W.
Football Association has been formed at Petersham.
About thirty members were enrolled. Mr. J. Seale was
elected honorary secretary, and Mr. W. Druoo honorary
treasurer.
Australian Coursing Club. Stormont Plate—
Mr. E. Fanning’s Faultfinder 1, with Mr. A. Chtrn-
side’s Miss M'Crae as runner-up. Steward’s Plate—
Mr. J. Hood’s Gyda 1, with Mr. E. Fanning’s Fadelina
as runner-up.
Mr. Michael Menser, of Parramatta, for selling
a ticket on a consultation sweep, was fined £l5, with
£5 5s professional costs, and 32s costs of court. A
meeting was held afterwards, and the amount of the
fine subscribed.
Ballarat Winter Meeting, August 11.- — Selling
Hurdles: Union Jack 1, Devlin 2, Polka 3. Railway
Stakes: Terrifli 1, Wizard 2, Koh-i-noor 3 Steeple-
chase : Colliugwood 1. Hurdle Race: Red Rover 1,
Rataplan 2, Zephyr 3.
The Cornell University four, about whom so
much *' blow ’’ was indulged in in America, were no-
where in the race for the Steward’s Challenge Cup, on
the Thames. The Thames Club crew won easily, with
the London Club crew second.
The crew of the Sabrina, the winning boat in
the eight-oar race at the late Sydney Rowing Club Re-
Sitta, presented a handsome gold locket to Mr. James
atley in recognition of his valuable services as
” coach” during their training.
At the late cricket match between Oxford and
Cambridge, a bowler named Evans did great work for
the Oxonians. In the second innings of Oxford, Patter-
son went in first, and carried his bat out for 107 runs.
The match was won by Oxford by 135 runs.
The great football match, at Melbourne, on
Saturday, between the Melbourne and Hotham Clubs,
was played in the presence of 5000 spectators, and re-
suited in a win for the Melboumo Club, with two goals
thirteen behinds to one goal eight behinds.
A billiard match, 300 up. for .£3OO, took place
on Thursday night, at Thatcher’s Bulletin Hotel,
between J. McKenna and an amateur named Pearce,
from Melbourne. McKenna won easily, by 87 points,
his highest break being 58. including 15 spots.
The Muswellbrook Amateur Racing Club is one
of the most prosperous in the country. At the last
meeting there were eight events, including a hurdle
race and a trotting match. The weights were very
heavy—as high as 13st. —to admit of amateurs riding.
In the walking match in London, Rowell made
269 miles, Weston 198. Weston was played out, and
off the track half the time. Weston’s breakdown was
complete when the tally stood Rowell 278, Weston 201.
Rowell has since challenged any three men in the
world.
Mr. Kirby, through pressure of other duties,
has had to resign the secretaryship of the Sydney
Hunt Club. Mr. Weston has accepted the vacant office.
The idea of forming a trotting club in connection with
the Hunt Club has been favourably received by the
members.
The two American champion amateurs have
been astonishing the English athletes. Myers, the
runner, won a 440 yards race easily in 49 4-sseos., and
Merrill, his companion, won a two-mile walking match
in 14m. 35 2-ssecs., his first mile being done in 7m.
3 seconds.
' The great six days’ swim between Captain Webb
and William Beckwith ended in an easy victory for
Beckwith. The score at close was : Beckwith, 94 miles
32 laps; Webb, 92 miles 12 laps. Beckwith swam his
first mile in 30 min. 20 secs., and even on the last day
was getting over some of them in 31 min.
Young Clifford, an Adelaide pedestrian, covered
120 f miles in 24 hours, on Saturday. This is an extra-
ordinary feat, and, until further particulars are to
hand, we have doubts about it. Should everything be
correct, young Clifford will no doubt be trotted out
against the Englishmen who visit us shortly.
The Auckland Stud Company, New Zealand,
have imported the following celebrated mares
Rosetta (half sister to Bend Or), by Lord Lyon-
Bergire, by Saunterer; Madcap, by Trumpeter; At’
lantis (sister te Atlantic), by Thormanby. Colts and
fillies of high pedigree have also been imported.
The last meet of the hounds near Morpeth gave
a straight run for about seven miles; several stiff
fences, and about a dozen falls. The jumping was very
?:ood. Four ladies were to the front all through, one
rom the Paterson and another from Bathurst occa-
sionally leading the field. The dingo was run into by
the hounds near Duckenfleld.
The booths, stalls, and race books rights for the
Hawkesbury meeting, on 25th and 27th instant, realised
£143 10s„ the highest price obtained since the formation
of the club. The gates will be sold on Monday, the
22nd instant. A straight start of nearly three fur-
longs has been made for the Hawkesbury Grand Handi-
cap, which is highly approved of, no horse being at a
disadvantage.
The Tasmanian Jockey Club held an adjourned
annual meeting on the evening of August 2. It appears
from the report of the secretary that the affairs of the
club are not in a depressed condition, and that if mem-
bers will only put their shoulders to the wheel, bright
days with good sport must issue. The worthy treasurer,
Mr. A. P. Miller, received due acknowledgment for his
valuable services.
A scratch football match under Rugby (and
other) rules was played on Thursday afternoon on
Moore Park, by two teams from the Treasury Depart,
ment. The game was rough for about three minutes,
while the wind lasted: after that, more than half the
players were only watching the game. The juniors
are trying to arrange another match with a view to
probable vacancies.
Football, under the Rugby rules, will be but
little played next season. All the suburban clubs are
enrolling themselves under the Association banner.
The University, which is our best club at the Rugby
game, will find a better opening for fast play in the
Victorian game. The Wallaroo stick fast to the Rugby
colours,—but, if they have nobody to play with, they,
too, must come over. Next season we nope to see the
Victorian game played by every club.
Two races of 100 yards came off on the Associ-
ation Ground, on Friday afternoon. The first, between
D’Arrietta and Crosby, was won easily by D’Arrietto,
though Crosby was a great favourite with the betting
contingent. The second, between Allen and M'Guin-
ness, was also won easily by Allen, who played with his
opponent, laughing at him after 50 yards were covered.
M'Guinness did not seem to run as well as on the
previous Saturday when he defeated D’Arrietta.
The hounds were a great success in the Hunter
district. Nearly 200 attended the first hunt at Hinton,
and thirty-five bush horses negotiated the last three
high fences of that run. It was decided to form a local
club, and the figure being mentioned at which a pack
of hounds could be run, the money was at once nearly
all forthcoming. Should, however, this movement not
be successful, Mr. Terry will go to the Hunter himself
yith his own pack, Singleton to be the first rendezvous,
‘ The Sydney Bicycle Club contest on Saturday
afternoon on the Military Road, North Shore, for a
trophy presented by Mr. Hugh Paterson, resr Ited as
follows:—H. Moyes, 90 yards, 1; A. Wood, 125 yards,
2; J. Copeland, scratch, 3; G. Godwin, 275 yards, 4.
The distance was two miles, and the time, 7 min. 1 sec.,
is said to be the fastest on record in Australia. Cope-
land’s time ,was 7 min. 12 sec. Mr. W. S. Hilliard
has offered a trophy to be competed for over the same
course.
A six days’ go-as-you-please tournament is to be
commenced at 1 a.m. on Septembers on the vacant
ground opposite Robertson’s coach factory, Pitt-street.
The first prize is £lOO and a gold stop watch valued at
£5O, second £5O, third £25, fourth £10; and a special
prize of £5O to any competitor covering 500 miles.
Only a dozen competitors will be allowed; the first
twelve entries to be accepted, with an entrance fee of
£5, to be forwarded to the manager at Hunt’s Inter-
national Hotel, on or before Saturday, August 27.
It is satisfactory to learn that the football
matches on the Association Ground have not materially
impaired the wickets. In the Association matches, the
play was generally at the sides of the ground, but in the
Rugby game the "scrimmages ’’ were mostly on the
Slaying ground. We would suggest, in the event of
iugby matches taking place on the ground next season,
that the goals should be so placed that the ploy will not
include the wicket ground. It is now being top dressed,
and looks well, and by November the wickets should be
better than ever.
The date of the match between Laycock and
Rush has been fixed for Friday, 26th August. Laycock
will row in a boat built by Swaddle and Winship, and
Rush will probably row in a new boat just arrived by
the Garonne, built by the man who fitted up Hanlan’s
in England. The dates of this and the final heat for the
Walker Whisky Trophy have evidently been arranged
with a view to the racing festivities. The Hawkesbury
meeting takes place on Thursday (25th) and Saturday
(27th); Rusk and Laycock’s race coming off on the
Friday between. The following week sees the Walker
Whisky contest decided, and the following Saturday is
the AJ C Derby day. Truly a Carnival week !
At the morning gallops during the past week
the best performers were Monmouth, who is coming on
again, Wheatear, Martindale, and Creswick. At Flem-
ington, Soothsayer, Wizard, and Whisper, and at Oaul-
field, Camballo and Chuckster are doing well. In the
betting, Wellington, Trump Yoss, Major, Waxy, and
Creswick for the Hawkesbury; Monmouth and Spin-
ningdale for the Derby, and Sweatmeat and Martindale
for the Metropolitan have been well supported. In
Melbourne, Monmouth has hardened for the V.R.C.
Derby, Segenhoe is first favourite for the Maribyrnong,
and Monmouth, Hesperian, and Savauaka have been
steadily supported for the Melbourne Cup. Chatterer
has been backed for the latter at £lO,OOO to £4OO.
The entries and regulations for the competition
for the Walker Whiskey Trophy, which takes place on
the Parramatta, in heats, on Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday, the sth, 7th, and 9th September, have been
published in circular form by Mr. P. J. Clarke, who
was deputed by the donors of the prize to arrange the
event. There are 16 entries. The course for the first
and second heats is from Gladesville wharf to the bath-
ing-house at Ryde, or vice versa, as the committee shall
determine; the final heat will be rowed over the entire
length of the champion course. By the way, we see
that it has been decided that each competitor shall,
during the race, wear a coloured sash Sin. wide on his
guernsey. This, though no doubt much better for the
public, is a neat way of getting clothes on to men who
—like Laycock, and many other professionals—prefer
to row bare-backed.
Following were the results of the Musclebrook
Amateur meeting Maiden Plate of £2O; li mile:
Euchre, Bst., 1, Barefoot, Bst., 2, Miss Lynn, Bst., 3!
Time, 2 min. 19 sec. Trotting Race: Tom, 10st., 1.
The affair was a fiasco. Ladies' Mile, £2O: Euchre won
easily in 1 min. 48 2-10 sec. Hurdle Race; 3 miles:
Warlike 1, Bob 2, Xmas 3. The eight hurdles, 3ft. Sin.
high, were all well negotiated, the last mile being done
in 2 min. 4 sec. Warlike won comfortably. President’s
Cup; 2 miles: This was an awfully hollow affair.
Raven bolted at the start, and getting a quarter of a
mile ahead before the others woke up, won by two
hundred yards. Time, 3 min. 57 sec. For two-year-
olds, £2O; %of a mile: Eudocia, Bjt. 41b., 1, Zara, Bst.
41b., 2, Carlyle, Bst. 71b ,3. Time, 1 min. 21 sec. Prize
of £l5; amateur weights not to be less than 13st. 6
furlongs: Bob 1, Xmas 2, Empress 3. Time not taken,
owing to the excite rcent produced by Dr. Creed’s
brilliant finish. All-aged Stakes, £25; miles.
Euchre won comfortably in 2 min. 45 sec. He was
afterwards purchased by Mr. J. White, for 50 guineas.
At Tattersall’a Club Spring meeting, at Rand-
wick, on Saturday, there was a large attendance,
including their Excellencies Lord Augustus Loftus and
the Marquis of Normanby. Good fields started for each
event. For the first, the Hurdle Race, nine came to
the post. Jupiter was fancied, but Darby the Blast
made a good race, and passed Pluto in the straight.
For the Tramway Handicap, Rupert, with Hailes up,
was made a hot favourite, but a bookmaker’s race was
the result, the unsupported Surry putting one to the
credit of Mr. Ivory’s stable. The Maitland flyer,
Twilight, got the best of a good start, but fell back
second last before a quarter of a mile had been covered;
but coming round the turn with a rush she managed to
get third place. This event and the Loftus Handicap
were made the subject of double-event betting, to the
advantage of the ring, as Surry was backed by very
few, and there were many "skinners." The Novel
Selling Race was simply a trial between Sunset and
Stilton, the former wearing his opponent down in the
straight. The winner, who was entered for £5O, was
sold to Mr. C. B. Fisher, after the race, for £240. The
Two-year-old Stakes was a gift to Morpeth, who got the
best of a bad start, and won with a great deal to spare.
The Loftus Handicap brought thirteen to the post, and
the various horses were freely backed. Brian Boru
proved he is a racehorse by the magnificent rush he
made in the straight after going to the other side of the
course at the turn. Zulu, who had the race in hands,
collapsed under the whip as Brian passed him. Lord
Lisgar and Carmen, from whom something was
expected from their good morning gallops, were
nowhere. Following are the results Hurdle Race ;
2 miles: Darby the Blast 1, Pluto 2, Wrangler 3. Time,
3 min. 59 5-10 sec. Tramway Handicap; 6 furlongs:
Surry 1, Sardonyx 2, Twilight 3. Time, 1 min. 16 3-10
sec. Novel Selling Race; one mile: Sunset 1. Stilton
2, Lady Louisa 3. Time, 1 min. 44 6-10 sec. Two-year-
old Stokes; half-a-mile : Morpeth 1, Modesty 2, Piracy
3. Time, 50 6-10 sec. Loftus Handicap; one mile three
furlongs: Brian Boru 1, Zulu 2, Creswick 3. Time,
2 min. 25 3-10 sec.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Adam Fartch, an old resident at Mount Gam-
bier (S.A.), was thrown from his horse while banting
with hounds, and was killed. The horse struck a rail
and fell on his rider The Kent C.C. held their annual
dinner on the evening of Friday, Ang. 5, at the Camel-
lia Grove Hotel, Alexandria. The winners of the
trophies for the past season were Mr. J. T. Pallett
(highest hatting average), and Mr. C. Pallett (highest
bowling average). The following were elected office-
bearers for the ensuing season:—President, Mr. F.
Sawyer ; vice-president, Mr. J. Barkl; secretary, Mr. J.
Pallett; treasurer, Mr. D. Totterdell. The usual loyal
toasts were honoured, and the company dispersed,
having spent a very pleasant evening The mile
bicycle championship of England was won on June Ist
by Richard Howell, of Birmingham, who beat Keen, the
champion, in 2.58 2-5 and 2.59 2-5 Mr. W. Walters, of
Auckland, won the most money in stakes during the
past N.Z. racing season On Friday, August sth, O.
Venteman and R. Agnew, employes at Smith and
Bennett’s, ran 200 yards, at Lady Macquarie’s Chair,
for £3 aside. Agnew was favourite, and won, as all
expected, by a yard. Although Venteman pushed him
at the finish, he only succeeded in reducing his lead
It is generally thought in N.Z. that the harsh Gaming
and lotteries Bill now going through the House will
not pass A twenty-fonr hours’ walking match at
Dunedin, N.Z., resulted in a victory for Drummond,
who did 106 miles Mata has been sold again, a well-
known Dunedin (N.Z.) sportsman, Hazlett, having
purchased him for £7OO Negotiations are pending for
a sculling match between Messenger and Hearn
Harry Prince says that his purchase of Sir Modred and
Somnus was a bona fide one, and he intends to run the
horses on their merite Traducer is again credited
with producing by far the largest number of winners
in N.Z. last racing season—twenty-two of his stock won
£9807. Add to this the winnings of the smaller fry of
his stock, and thf-re is little doubt he is to be credited
with £11,500. Yattendon comes next, £2150 Dar-
gaville, N.Z, advertises a champion sculling race on
its own waters, in connection with next Wairoa regatta.
The event is to be a sweepstakes of £5O, and Wairoa
will find the money for two or three men. Laycock and
others might take a note of this This is really
authentic. An old sportsman, who felt his last days
drawing nigh, left in his will £5OO to his nephew on
condition that he put it on Archer’s mount for the 1881
Derby. The good thing came off, and our (Sporting
Times) staff are hard at it composing a song regarding
the event, to be entitled, “ The Good Old Man who
Died.”
“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
At Gyropio, a party of speculators subscribed 1
and got the Austrian Band to play seven nights for
£lOO. The night before they opened, shares went up 50'
per cent., and the night after they went down as much.
The speculators now say that the band were not brought
to Gympie as a speculation, but for the public good
Mrs. Boucicanithas obtained a divorce from Dion, for
his adultery. She is to have £6OO per annum alimony.
Scott-Siddons, the divorced husband of the actress
of that name, is in Yana Bend madhouse, Melbourne.
The unfortunate man has drunk himself into oh fob is
delirium Wo understand from Miss Tessie Horan
that her benefit at the Grafton Theatre realized over
£3O. The fair benefifiare played Aladdin, in the bur-
lesque of that name, and the thing went like a newsboy
down a Fleet-street slide. During the performance
some of her admirers mode a collection of all the
flowers in the theatre, the gentlemen doffing their
button-holes, and the ladies their nose-gays. All these
bunches were tied up in a gigantic bonqnet, and flung
upon the stage just at the conclusion of a local warble-
Both the Misses Horan are n®w in Sydney resting
Professor Haselmayer, haring concluded his Sydney 1
season, goes to Bathurst, Orange, and Dubbo. He
opens at the latter town first—next week, probably -
There has been a big row at the Royal between Mr.
Wallace, the stage manager, and one or two of the
ladies who came from England with the Musgrove
Company. The casus belli consisted in the fact that
7s. 6d. fines had been imposed on the fair ones for wear-
ing flowers on the stage. The ladies concerned have
now left the company When Sara Bernhardt was in
America, at Chicago her agent ran out of books of the
play “ Frou Frou” one night; so he sold copies of
“Phedre" instead. And the npper-ten followed the
play from the wrong hooka The Pollards and Walter
Reynolds settled their partnership difference by the
latter receiving £2OO. After two attempts, the troupe
produced “Les Cloches de Corneville,” at the Lorne-
street Hall, on the 6th, to a comfortably-filled house,
business being fairly good to date. Considering the
size of the stage, and the unfitness of the hall fcr such
an undertaking, the opera is put on the stage in an
exceedingly praiseworthy manner, and reflects great
credit on Derbyshire and the management. It is
doubtful whether one could find a more unsuitable place
for any professional company. Of the performers,
Julia Simmons, May Pollard, H. Salinger, and E.
Osmond carry off the honours, and appear to undoubted
advantage Theatrical matters in N.Z. are rather
brisk at present. At Dunedin, both theatres have been
open for some weeks. Lyons’ Pleasure Party only drew
fair houses at the Queen's, attributable to the old and
hackneyed programmes presented. This company, at
last advices, were at Christchurch At the close of
the Pleasure Party season, Baudmann and Company
played a six nights’ farewell engagement at this house,
and did fairly. "The Great Tragedian ’’ may be looked
for in Melbourne at once W. H. Leake is at the
Princess, under the pilotage of Willis and Theo.
Hamilton. He made a favourable impression in “My
Partner," and latterly has been giving Shakespeare a
turn. Baudmann and Leake played rival “ Hamlets,”
the latter’s ad. notifying that it, would be (in
English). Rough on the big B. Leake’s company is a
very poor one, and includes Hamilton, Alexander, J. J. 1
Kennedy, Stark, Mowry, Lily and Arethuaa May,
and Bessie Vivian I Poor Bandmann has had some
bad luck in N.Z. His second visit to Wellington was
not a financial success. On one evening he was the-
recipient of a benefit, and notwithstanding the com-
bined attraction of a double bill—“ Blighted Lives”
and "Don Caesar de Bazan” —and the farewell appear,
ance of a promising member of a local dramatic club,
he failed to secure a decent house. Herr Baudmann,.
in thanking Mr. Read for his assistance, laughingly
expressed a hope that that young gentleman would
never adopt the stage as his profession, as it was
an exceedingly bard and disappointing one
Ned Salsbury’s Troubadours have had a new piece
written called “An Amateur Benefit.” It Is said to be'
A 1 A Christchurch, (N.Z.) journal says that the
Herbert Flemming who played Claude Melnotte to Miss <
Pomeroy’s Pauline in Melbourne, and received so ranch'
S raise for it, was a clerk in a leading auctioneer’s house
ere some four years ago. He afterwards appeared om
the stage under the name of Harley, and went to Mel-
bourne with Mrs. Scott Siddons Dick Kohler, now
a waxworks exhibitor in N.Z., contemplates bringing an-
action against the Union S.S. Co. for damage done to-
his figures on the passage from Wellington to Dunedin
in one of the company’s boats. Queen Victoria's crown-
got smashed, and Ned Kelly’s nose was put out of joint
by the rough treatment to which Her Majesty and the-
Mansfield desperado were subjected on the trip in ques-
tion The Christchurch opera class intend producing
a triple show in November. They will put on a new
opera each night—“ Madame Favart,” ” Angot," and
*' Les Cloches.” Sara Bernhardt is to take charge of
the American photographic tent, at a charity fete which
is shortly to be given in the garden of the Tuileries -
Mary Holt (daughter of Clarence Holt), has written a;
comedietta, entitled “ Waiting Consent," which is
acted nightly at the Folly Theatre, London A child!
was howling in a Dunedin theatre the other night, dur-
ing one of Wallace’s most boisterous scenes. Wallace
looked at the mother, andlquietly remarked, ” Why you
make more noise than I do.” The hint was taken
Baker and Farron, who may be looked for in Australia
shortly, were at latest at the Standard, ’Frisco
Philadelphia variety theatres are encouraging pie-eat-
ing matches between big men and wide-mouthed little
boys It is proposed to erect a new theatre at Christ-
church, N.Z When Mrs. P. T. Barnum was a baby
Tom Thumb used to hold her on his knee On>
Thursday evening last the members of the Lyceum
Dramatic Club gave an entertainment at the School of
Arts, St. Leonards, in aid of the St. Leonards Fire
Brigade. The attendance was very large, there not be-
ing standing room, and every one seemed to enjoy
themselves. The City Fire Brigade came over, and a
torch-light procession was formed from Mitson’s Point
to Lane Cove Road The Lyttelton Times'
is very hot on Richmond Thatcher Cary’s
tour with his N.Z. “Pirates of Penzance” Co.,
so far, has been a great financial success, but not alto-
gether an artistic one. At Christchurch, the company
“fetched” splendid houses. “Pinafore” was put on
at the end of the season, but it was not a good repre-
sentation, Miss Leaf’s Josephine being the only well-
Stayed part. Amy Johns was cast as Hebe, “Mr.”
ecil Riverton, Buttercup, an amateur named Porter
the Admiral, Wentworth, the Captain, Signor Morley,
Ralph, and Mask D. Alexander as Deadeye. All were
“ so-so." The company visited Timaru, catching a lot
of coin, and at the present time are fetching the
Danedinites at the Queen’s. Charley Weightman is-
the advance agent N.Z., at last advices,
was without a professional company of any kind, the
numerous body of amateurs there having it all their
own way Bob Love, the N.Z. stock actor, is, it is-
said, going in for a round of Shakespearian characters.
Billy Wilson and Hosea Easton, assisted by
amateurs, lately gave the Ashburton (N.Z.) people a
treat, by producing “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” J. W.
Marshall has ceased to be connected with Lydia-
Howarde, and now shines forth with Cary’s N.Z,
“ Pirates ” Co....Simonsen cleared £3OOO by his last N.Z.
tour Charley Hicks is now a member of Haverly’s
Coloured Minstrel Co., travelling in the S tat is Big
John Jack and Annie Firmin still playing in America.
And yet another. Madame Welchim, a violiniste (of
good repute—so the bills and ads. say), will shirtly
visit Australia The Lydia Howards Co., at last
accounts, were doing the Wairaparapa district,
N.Z One of the funniest things on earth is to
see the “supes” they have on in N.Z. theitres ,
De Mnrska is warbling in London E. W. Cary had a
“ben." in Christchurch, an act of “Pinafore” and “The
Pirates” being submitted One of Pollard’s youngest
children died in Auckland Arthur Elliott, Harry
Sefton, Gerald Dillon, and J. P. West are well liked in
Auckland Rumour hath it that the principals in
Pollard’s Juvenile Company receive £3 10s. a wrek
There is joy in the breast of Walter Reynolds. His
wife presented him with a daughter at Auckland. Walter
is due in Sydney shortly after attractions An o’d'
friend, Louisa Gourlay, is playing at the Park Theatre,
London Harry Rickards’ latest is a dirge on the
death of Beaeonsfleld, entitled “ In Memoriain.” E.
T. Stetson’s visit to Australia has been abandoned
Mr. and Mrs. Hart (Kate Russell) are doing the West
Coast (N.Z.). Lizzie Morgan is now a member of the
company Signor Majeroni is a member of a a
American company called the Child of State Combina-
tion It is said that J. B. Howe re-visits the colonies
next year Ristori, who has now mastered the’
English language, is (desirous of playing Lady Mac-
beth with Irving.


Chemists and Dm
CAUTION.— In our style of
sndden changes of tempert
and sunshine often intermingled
it is no wonder that our child
relatives are so frequently take
looted colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Boi
Syrup kept about your home
wul prevent serious sickness, a 1
and perhaps death, by the ust
doses. For curing Consumpth
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Cro
of the Throat or Lungs, its succ
derful, as your druggist will
Syrup is now sold in every to
this continent. Sample bottle
regular size, 3s. Wholesale A
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into L
two years ago, where thousands t
—and one year in Sydney ; and somi
of Rheumatism hare been cured i:
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long stan
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear A«
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by
HEAD OFFICE
89 WATEELOO-EOAD, I
and
107 CASTLEEBAGH SXEEE
S. W, GAMBLE, Pro]
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE
STREET, SYDNE
Manzanita pru
TEY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented f<
Thousands of people in Sydney ha
have been cured of Biliousness, In
ness. Sick Headaches, and all corny
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office; 89 WATERLOO E(
and 107 CASTLEEBAGH STEI
S. W. GAMBLE, Prop
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLES
PITT STREET, SYP
H
ALL OF PH
(Late Felminoham
78 KING STi
Dispensing Establish]
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Si
Toilet requisites, &c. Patent Medii
English marked price. All articles
D. HALE. M.
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P:
FOR
INDIQESTI
AND
STOMACH COMPLA
They are also much recommei
tive for Females, being safe, gentl
their operation, leaving no disposi
and being free from any tendency
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLO!
DISPENSING H6TABLISHMEN'
OXFORD STREET S
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
THE GEEAT LIVEE E
And successful substitute for Ct
Podophyllum, and all Nox
Famous as a Restorative to Heall
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for the Cure of all Disorc
Stomach. .
Most famous as the only Tome
gives cold, and
meat daiieate of either sex- u
Tailors, Drapers
« TT IS A well-know:
JL for Household or Famih
Hordern’s" Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H ' has
for Value. Variety, or Extent of St
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOO
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES A.
Tobacconist)
JAMES
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Lea)
Best Imported Bra
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and R
159 PITT STI
Next Post Offlo(
*
TIN TAG TOBA
None are genuine but the R<
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or TANK®
DIXSON & SO*
16 YORK STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGA
MILD, FRAGRANT, & 1
A
Manufactured bj
T. SAY W B
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACOi
Clarence-street, Sy
Chemists and Dm
A POTHECARIE
U OXFORD STRI
Near Htdb Park C
(N.B.— The Tram-car stopi
W. D. EAMES, Pi
Tailors, Draper!
gPEING EEQi:
JOHN bTyOUD
LADIES* AND CHILDREN’S C
TO ORDER.
We can please yon in DRESS
We can also please yon in DJ
CHECKED and PLAIN SA 'EE
PLAIN and FANCY CAMBRI
NEW SPRING MILLINER!
CASHMERE DOLMANS MAI
Prices 355, 455, 555,
A GRAND LOT OP SILK NET
Tailors, Drapers
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOU!
358, 360, 362, Qeorge-
OPENING NEW G(
for
WINTER SEAS!
EVERY DAY DURING TE
FIRST GENERAL 6
of
NOVELTIES
FANCY DRESSI
FOE THE WINTER S
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO '
FRENCH CASHMERE CAMS]
DOVER HOMESPUN INDRI
ELASTIC BIEGE AN GO!
KABQHER CASHMERE JERsE
STOCKINGETTE VALPi
AND A LARGE ASSORTMEI
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES,
MILLINERY.— - '
cases of very i
EEY, someth!
handsome, dire
houses in Londi
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR -
SILK, Rich Ve
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES, 1
SILKS, in a var
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 3e
6s lid, 7s 6d. '
worn, and strc
for wear, and fl:
BLACK VELVE
NAUCUNIUM.gi
every yard star
BLACK SATINS
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d, i
are light and so
under usual i
SILK VELVE'
every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MENT of all
LACES in eve:
imitation, Embi
Ruffling, Mode
Culls, Collaret
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace h
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS wc
FROM DRESS
be no deceptb
washed. Ladi
Sheetings good
makes. Prices;
to Is lid; 80-in
inch, Is 6d to 2s
to 3s. America
& Horrocks’ Ci
QUILTS, from
prices. Colou
QUILTS, 2i loi
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 and
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN'
been our study
this class of t
character. By i
year after year,
of FIRST-CLAS
are now showii
ment of of DAI
NAPKINS, bof.
Damask. Thes
every size, and i
for cheapness
colony. Wo c
MASK CLOT!
425: 5-8 NAPKI
3-4 NAPKINS
89s 6d; DAI
round or square
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 2
SHEETINGS, i
PILLOW LINI
wide ; WHI
TOWELS*, fron
cording to size
ISH TOWELS,
TEA CLOTHS,
TURKISH DI
nn 4 GTT T) TXT A
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHBUNKi
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, QEORGE-STREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LAEGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
P AS AION ABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
B
LANKET S. B
“ FIRST SHIPMENT OF T
now opened at
EDWARD HORDE
668 BRICKFIELD HIL]
The BEST VALUE ever recei
lian market. SNOW WHITE, I
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth isf
“ Competition defh
\MERICAN CUT PAPE
MADAME DEMO
Perfect Fitting
Newest styles every mail from I
Full directions and illustrations wi
MADAME DEMOREST’S publi
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, grai
MISS LOUISA H
87 Kiwa Street, Stdnet (two doo
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-sti
G
SO. I>. L I I
high-class CASH 1
3 BRIDGE STREET,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MU
Begs to Inform his friends and thi
opened the above premises f
gentlemen who wish to have tl
manship, &e., at a low price for
Gentlemen requiring this with Wei
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly«
U.B.—TWO DOORS FROM GI
R.C. HAG
fashionabl;
tailoring ESTABI
127 KING STRE]
Cannot Cannot
bo he
Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, and
To effectually stop the extortion
tised in the way of clothing R. C
pure West of England and Scotch 1
In Five-button sae pattern suit
Canadian Tweed Suits, to C
Homespun Tweed Suits, to
West of England, Tweed Si
TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
West of England Tweed Trousers, t
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Order, 1
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order lb
N B.—Patterns, with self-measur
post free to all parts of the colony.
Note the Address
inn VTWn R T


Hotels, fco.
The compagnoni cateri
OF PITT-STEEET have mud
noonoing to the publiOi that to remov
want of space to accommodate their p
Luncheon hour, they have con v art €
Banqueting Hall into an additional
which is now open, and where everj
directed to visitors patronising this m
premises. , ,
The Billiard-room, with a superior
is under the management of a first-clai
branch of Catering undertaken, and a
staff #f experienced and polite waiters
Through continued misrepresentati
beg to mention that they are not in ar
with any other person, or persons, in I
SAMUEL PACK!
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jatering (
315 GEORGE STREI
(late Harris’ Caf4, opposite Peapes
A superior CAFE and KESTAUBAN
EEFEESHMENT BOOMS for
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by
The GEE AT WEDDING CAKE ESI
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest des
mriDl VffTßUl'n 4-I,o*- mo doruvornna
Hotels, fco.
HY D O E A
BLACKHEATH, BLUE M'
Situated at the HIGHEST POIN
amidst the Finest Scenery of 1
and within but a few
easy walk of the Par-
GOVETT’S LEA!
The HOTEL, which will be found
and quiet, is beyond all comparison
for Tourists who wish to see, not <
Zasr, but those enthralling specta
board and Wentworth Falls, Perr
Kunimbla Valley, which latter is in
the house.
Terms exceedingly moderate. Lot
promptly attended
E. T. HAY
PEOPBIETOE.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUAE
AND CASE.
AGENT—G EOK&I
BEIDGE STEEET CHi
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STEEET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to
that owing to the increasing demar
has taken the above
CENTEALLT SITUATED
Although the principal business
the above address, the CELLAEB
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retail
WINES IN LAEGE BULK and
TEADE.
•ST Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of the
io act in conjunction with Mr.
Sydney, li© fsels confident that, wi
the above-named two experienc
favours will be attended to with tl
tude.
R
OYAL EXCHANGE DI
KING & GEOEGE ST
A. A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.E.H. the Prince (
PEOPKIETOE OF THE AB
Begs to intimate that he is n
THE BEST TABLE D’HOTE
From 12 to 3 p.m. for
The best INDIAN CUEEY, by a
the premises. Suppers ready, hot)
12 p.m. Separate room for ladi
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and
reasonable terms. Eooms vacant fi
Your patronage is respectfully sol
A. A. WEB
EOYAL EXCHANGE DINI
King and George streets
THE
TAEPING Ml
This celebrated TEA is com]
UNCOLOUEED Tl
_j l- „„,i„ ..v. inM 11h and half lb
TTntAIR.
Hotels, fee.
O
L D EXHIBITION
PRINCE ALFRED ]
(Opposite Gate.’
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION
Plunge and Shower Baths,
WINES and SPIRITS, superior
drawn from the wood. THos HIL j
B
OBINSON’S FITZI
WILLIAM BTI
WOOLLOOMOOL
all the best brands of a:
A 1. PTT'.’R TIOTTI
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimuiant
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKBEPI
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND <
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B]
t>OB.
Swand
It is of the utmost importance tl
bottle should be carefully compare!
are being imported into New Soi
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beven
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of L(
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,IND
AGENTS.
E
OSS AND (
(Late Collins and Ro
iE R A T E D W
AND
CORDIAL MANUFACT
438 HARRIS STEEE'
First Prize, International Exh
for Soda Water,
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lem(
Ginger Beer, &c
CORDIALS OF ALL
The Trade supplied with prompt;
F
NOTE THE ADDRI
BOSS AND C
438 HARRIS STREET,
MARTIN 1
* AUSTRALIAN WINE M;
AND BEER BOTT
105 PITT STEEE
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN 1
The Kama of M. V'3S & 00.
la on every Q-enuine Bottle.
r Is not the clearness or oonditic
Ale that preserves this branc
■nation. Common bitter crude beer
but no other brand has the same m
ter. the fulness on the palate, an
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C<
tore cautioned against traders wh<
extra profit represent the common
equal in quality to tli© Bull Doge «
CO., Sole Agents.
5v
C Bfl
B
OAR'S
HE A E
This favourite bran
8 T O
Is selected with great care from tl
Inge of the celebrated firm of AK
and CO., Dublin, and therefore can
To be Procured Ever]
Hookings & co.’s ow
Australian Wine strengthens the
Bvst«m against infectious diseases.
Opposite Citt Bahk, PITT STREET.
1*55
Money.
U
NION LOAN AND DISCOI
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STEE
3 doors from A. Hordern a
Honrs —9 to 5.
MONET ADVANCED upon PEI
security, payable by instalments, as
£lO by weekly instalments of
15
20
25
30
50
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTIC
To borrowers not able to transact
day, the offices will be open Monday
ings. from 7 to 9.
8 760 GEORGE STREET, i
3 doors from A. Hordern
T
10 SMALL FREEHOLD AF
proprietors
MONEY LENT on mortgage of
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the wet
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, wi
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LC
and DISCOUNT COMPANY. 760
market.
London mortgage,
DISCOUNT BAN
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUT]
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IE
SPECIAL NOTIC
The Directors place before those d
advantages upon easy terms UNJ
advantages. Their m ®thodof tram
highly commended, CONCESSIO.
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE
BILLS OF SALE on furniture, '
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded
ties. Personal effects, &0.,
AND UPON ANY REASONAB.
N B. —Promissory Notes, Acce]
COUNTED daily. ___ „
Repayments by WEEKLY,
QUARTERLY instalments; or as
NIENCE of borrower. .
All communication and mterviev
confidential. „
■nATtwa /IT) i rrra TH


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Let us advance gaily to the breach. The critical
fight will be rather a stiS one this week, fqr since onr
last issue there have been as many new pieces produced
at the theatres as babies born in the suburbs. The pro-
grammes are all before us now. That of Miss Annie
Mayor's benefit—gold on white; that of “Olivette "
a work of art, all pink and pictures; five or six Entr'actes
—rather blurry as to their typography ; and a specimen
or two of that chaste and voluminous publication, the
Stage Which shall we select first, now ? It’s I’embaros*
da choix, with «. vengeance] Well, with our usual gal-
lantry, we will choose the piece to operate on first that
has the most ladies —we mean legs—in it—“ Olivette,”
• * *
Gentle reader, we will at once admit that Mr.
Musgrove’s new venture is musically, scenically, Terp-
sichoreally, and dramatically generally a staggerer.
It is—
A maze of moving legs and lights;
A piece the “ old boy ** blesses —
All many-tinted, twinkling tights.
And flowing golden tresses ;
All life and motion, with such jokes
And merry music blended.
It gets around all kinds of folks,
And youths weep when it’s ended!
A blaze of jewels—such a plot—
One long ethereal shimmer; —
A crowd of dresses that could not.
By any chance, be “ slimmer."
A piece with which you couldn't quarrel
For being—well—unduly moral—
In short, a thing (to be quite plain)
That’s “got" the “Tambour” crowd again.
• * *
We see, by the score of the Opera, that it is
composed by Audrau, that Mr. H. B. Farnie has done
“ the English adaptation of words to music," and that
the dialogue and business have been translated and
adapted by a mysterious personage, signing himself
“ T.L.” The first two gentlemen have worked well to-
gether, but Mr. T.li.'a ideas on the subject of adaptation
are peculiar. Considering his work merely from a
literary point of view, we can only characterise it as
being so clip-shod os, in some parts, to descend to mere
meaningless drivel. But, while he has managed to leave
out the greater number of the jokes put in by Messrs.
Chivot and Dum the French librettists, be has given
place, in his book, to several passages which, perhaps,
might, with advantage, have been eliminated. If, how-
ever, “ Olivette," os it at present stands, was considered
to be not too “ highly spiced " in London, we suppose we
have no right to take exception to it here. Still, when
we learn that operas of this type, and comedies of the
“Pink Dominoes" school, are the productions that are
the most popular in the old country at the present
time, we cannot but consider that, on the other side of
the world, they are “ going it." If any clergyman who
reads The Uullexin —and we’re told that all the clergy-
men read The Bulletin on the quiet—wants an “ awful
example," let him go and see “ Olivette ’* for one night
only.
* * tt
The plot is somewhat similar to that of Girofle-
Qirofla—the fun turning upon the incident not uncom-
mon in Qaliio literature, either dramatic or otherwise,
of two men being married to one wife upon the same
day, and of various complications arising from this
state of affairs—all of which give the author an
opportunity of letting off a number of witticisms
generally of a—well, very domestic character. Material
of this kind, in the hands of suoh/arceurs as Mr. H. R.
Harwood, Mr. John Wallace, and such facetious young
ladies as Miss Pattie Laverue and Miss Nellie Stewart
was not thrown away. Every point that could be
made, was made, aud every gag that could be
gagged was gagged, and there was, in consequence,
much merriment evoked—the gods occasionally becom-
ing quite uproarious. As a work of art, “ Olivette" is
undoubtedly an advance on “La Fille du Tambour.
Major." The music is more sparkling, the nuse-cn-
scene completer, and the action brisker. The dresses are
simply magnificent—betray ing in every costume —from
those of the principals to those of the auxiliaries, the
exquisite taste of the true artist. Nothing approaching
such a pageant has ever beunseen in Australia; and the
pluck and enterprise of the entrepreneurs cannot be too
highly commended, whatever may be said of their taste
from a moral point of view. In the scenery, Mr Gordon
has surpassed himself; the second set, “ The Palace at
liousillon," being an effort of which Beverley himself
might be proud. Now for the acting.
• * «
The heroine, Olivette, was, of course, played by
Miss Pattie Laveme, and she sang the music, every-
thiug being taken into consideration, with great skill
and effect. It was not, however, until she came to the
“ sob song,” at the end of the first act, that anything
like enthusiasm was aroused from the audience. Here
is a verse of the lyric, wnich has more fun in it than
poetry:—
" O my father! my school days I’ll regret.
Scarce a woman, don't let me marry yet.
They told me at the convent good folk never never wed,
Aud marriage is a dreadful thing, the nuns all said.
Ah I ah! ah 1
And certainly nuns ought to know I
Ah ! ah I ah !
At least the girls all told me so."
It is needless to state that in her delightful costumes
Miss Laveme looked very charming indeed, and we at
once acknowledged that she possesses any amount of
chic. But it is just possible for even an opera bouffe
artiste to be too giddy. Where Miss Laverne was
natural she was effective ; when, however, sheover-did
the “arch" business, she at once became so distress-
ingly shrill that people found themselves involuntarily
looking round for the engine.
* « m .
There is another point on which we have to take
Miss Laverne gently to task. It is well-known by those
whose business or pleasure calls them frequently to the
Theatre Royal, that since Mr. Musgrove’s season has
commenced, a large number of gentlemen have made it
a custom of attending the theatre every night in order
to give distinct applause to favoured lady members of
the company. With this, of course, we are not con-
cerned, for there are sballow-pated sensualists in every
country, who ere perfectly free agents in the
manner of bestowing their applause and spending
their money. If these gentlemen wish to render
themselves conspicuous by a continuation of
smiles, nods, and signals to ladies on the stage, and
thus betray to the audience their “ stricken" condi-
tion, why it is their own look out; but what we most
certainly do object to is, to see an actress, who in the
interval between songs, instead of indulging in appro-
priate by-play in conj unction with the piece,amusing her-
self by a series of winks and grins to such of her friends
as she can "spot” in the dress-circle. We know noth-
ing, and want to know nothing, of the inner life of any
of the “ Olivette" company. We have to regard these
ladies and gentlemen merely from a critical point of
view, and therefore cannot too strongly deprecate the
ridiculous antics which, for the amusement of the few,
and to the disgust of the many, are nightly performed
by Mr. Mnsgrove’s ladies, from the Prima Donna down
to the most obscure figurantes of the company. There
is plenty of time for all this kind of thing after the
theatre.
* * *
Miss Nellie Stewart was the Countess Rousillon,
and so charming was her appearance that she created
quite a furore. This young lady possesses a small
voice, but it has evidently been much cultivated, and
though the theatre is rather too large for her organ to
fill, she managed, in the pretty waltz song, “ My Love,”
to pull through more than creditably. Miss Stewart's
costumes are of extraordinary beauty—that in the
second act being quite a marvel of elegance and splen-
dour. On the first night (from a study of which repre-
sentation this notice is written) Miss Nellie knew more
about her part than any other of the principals, and
though the role is leas adapted to her peculiar abilities
than that of Griolet, Miss Stewart’s efforts were received
in a very flattering manner by the audience. The
npper-circle and pit were especially demonstrative, and
the manual efforts of this section of the audience being
supplemented by the frantic clapping of a captivated
coterie in the dress-circle, it often occurred that for
some moments after the Countess had sung a small
couplet, or said a sharp thiug, the acting of the other
performers was reduced to dumb show. And if this is
not success, why. what is ?
* * *
Of the rest of the ladies, we may remark that
Uiss Consuelo—a thousand pardons !—Miss Agnes
Consuelo—enacted the part of Veloutine, Olivette’s
hired girl, but we defer a notice of her performance
until she condescend* to play to the audience generally.
Miss Una Brooke deserves a line for the pretty manner
in which she sang a verse allotted to her in the third
act, as one of the midshipmen of the Cormorant. In
this scene, the costumes of Miss Brooke, Miss Slater,
and Miss Nellie Hope are—to *ay the least —remark,
able. We sincerely trust that non* of these young
ladies will—humph I—catch cold before the “ Olivette "
season is over. Every member of the T.M.C. A. should
make a special point of critically inspecting the dam-
sels through a big binocular.
# # #
Mr. Fred Mervin played Capitaine de Merimac,
but as he had a terrible cold and suffered under the dis-
advantage of not being able to sing a note, we should
be doing him an injustice were we to criticise his per-
formance in this issue. Mr. Breunir was in good voice,
and his Valentin is (as it may easily be without being a
positive masterpiece) a great improvement npon his
Capitaine Robert. This gentleman aud Mr. Mervin have
some capital business together, and they will only have
themselves to blame if, after a few more performances,
they do not make a success which will be long remem-
bered in Sydney. The composer and librettists have done
their utmost for them. As Marvejol, the seneschal, that
usually grand basso,Mr. Hallewell,gave ns a performance
which was as suggestive of extreme melancholy as the
night winds moaning ever a haunted grave-yard. He
neither was up in the words nor (and this really sur-
prised us) the mnsic. We suppose, however, he will
improve. There’s one thiug certain—he most either
improve—or stay as he is.
• * •
To Mr. H. R. Harwood was entrusted the part of
the eccentric Duo des Ifs, an elderly nobleman who is
always hatehiug conspiracies and falling in love. The
Due des Ifs somewhat resembles the Duo Della Volta,
and is equally amusing. Mr. J. Wallace, as Coquelicot
(his foster-brother and valet j succeeded, in conjunction
with Mr. Harwood, in keeping the audience iu a roar
when they were on the stage. In short, they conduce
equally to the success of " Olivette" in the same manner
as they did to that of the opera which preceded it, and
they are to be equally congratulated upon scoring
another centre in the target of comedy.
* « •
We may conclude this long notice by remarking
that we regard the success of the piece as assured.
Nothing like “ Olivette” was ever seen (or heard) before
in Australasia.
* * * *
Whyj wasj Wilhelm] a “ frost] ” during his re-
cent tripj amongt us? The Penny Perisher knows.
Because he “failed to play music suited for a miscel-
laneous audience, and such as the general public could
understand.” Mr. Chapmanj, Herr Wilhelmj’s agent,
was so struck with the force of this remark that for a
time he was knocked insensible. When he came too,
however, he at once made proposals for another Sydney
season ; the following programme being first submitted
for Alfred’s approval on behalf of the “ miscellaneous
public "i
PROGRAMME.
PART 1.
fa. Five Finger Exercises.
1. Pianoforte solo ■] b. Ba 1 Ba I Black Sheep.
Cc. Maidens Prayer, (undiluted.)
2. Ballad—And I Tickled her Under the Chin.
( a. Easy Scales.
3. Violin Concerto < h. Grandfather’s Clock.
Cc. Yankee Doodle.
4. Sand Jig—Gentleman Amateur
5. Recitation Selection from "Brevities”—Even-
ing News.
PART 11.
Ca. Madame Angot Quadrille
h. Hold the Fort
1. Pianoforte Solo -j c. Fantasie Fantastique The
j Cat’s March over Broken
L Bottles.
2. Song (by request)—Nancy Lee.
( a. Pop Goes the Weasel
3. Violin Concerto <h. Selection —“Pinafore"
Cc. Irmh jig.
4. Chanson comique—Dr. Quack (by special request
of several influential small-pox patients).
5. Song and dance —The Big Sunflower (first time in
Sydney).
6. Plantation walk-round and chorus, by the whole
strength of the company.
N.B. —Palings pianos, bags of flour, drawing-room
suites, live geese, Arabian chargers, hind-quarters of
beef, and other valuable presents distributed during the
evening. Front seats Is , back seats 6d., gallery
nothing. God save the Queen!
If that programme doesn’t suit the “ miscellaneous
public,” Alfred says he’ll eat it (the programme) first,
aud then Wilhelm j can eat him afterwards.
* * * *
Mr. Hiscooks informs us (and we thoroughly
believe him) that “ the great Maccabe” will arrive by
the Lusitania, and will open in Sydney under his
management. This should be good news —not only for
the hlasii theatre-goer (as Mr. Maccabe is intensely
amusing)—but for the goody-goodies who won't enter a
theatre—because the great entertainer is very moral.
We think Fred will do well, and, of course, hope so.
But, then, it has always been our weakness to wish
health, wealth, and prosperity to everyone.
* * *
A largo amount of interest was centred in Mr.
J. W. Dodge’s benefit last week, on account of Mr.
Frank Cates having undertaken to recite Hood’s poem
of Eugene Aram, and we, in common with many others,
who take an interest in the development of talent in
the colony, attended to see how he would “ shape."
Mr. Cates is a young gentleman who has a natural gift
for acting, in the same manner that he has a genealogical
claim to gentility. On the stage he is always (more or
less) effective ; off the stage he is always a gentleman.
We note these two facts, because they have, undoubt-
edly, gained for Mr. Cates the many friends he possesses
in Sydney et ailleurs, and the more friends a man pos-
sesses the greater, of course, is his weight with the
public. As a reciter, Mr. Cates has much in his favour.
His appearance is good, his articulation clear and
decided, and his “manner" undeniable. In the reci-
tation he embodies much effective “business,” and
though, at certain passages of the poem, when it
changed from narrative into dialogue, he did not alter
his tone and manner sufficiently quickly, the recita-
tion was—taken as a whole—a very great success. In
this effort Mr. Cates has convinced us that he will be
perfectly justified in his experiment of appearing in
tragedy, and we trust that he will be able to make satis-
factory arrangements for his ddb(it as a votary of Mel-
pomene without delay. We think, however, that he
would be wise (for many reasons) to perform in “ The
Bells," prior to giving us his reading of Claadius’s
eccentric nephew.
* * * *
Mr. Sydney Grundy’s farcical comedy (adapted
from a Palais Royal “shriek”), which was one of the
pieces produced at the Opera House on the occasion of
Miss Annie Mayor’s benefit, is about as merry a little
slay as could well be imagined. The plot is essentially
French, and although the names are done into English,
the practised playgoer can detect the Parisian flavour
in every idiom, and the influence of the Boulevards in
every tableau. But, as we live in an age of French
adaptations, this doubtless should be considered as
adding to the piece’s attractiveness. Aud, indeed,
we are net sure that it does not, since, though only
produced on the one evening, " Snowball ” afforded the
audience unlimited amusement. The acting throughout
was extremely brisk. Mr. Wybert Eeeve, who played
Felix Featherstone, the peccant husband, was very
amusing, and Mr. Cates quite astonished us all by the
talent he displayed in the part of Uncle John, a giddy
old boy, who hides his “Pink Domino" proclivities
under the sfarb of outward austerity. Miss Annie
Mayer exhibited a thorough knowledge of the
principle* of comedy in her interpretation of Mrs.
Featherstone. She made a delightful picture, and
carried her addience with her all throagh. We could,
however, have wished on this occasion to have seen
Mias Mayor in some character which would have
afforded her scope for the delineation of the more
serious phases of the drama—in a part, for instance,
like Dora. As this was not to be, we took what was
offered us with pleasure. " Snowball" was succeeded
by a recitation—“ Advance Australia," by Mr. W. J.
Holloway, which that gentleman gave in a very robnst
manner, indeed; and the performance closed with the
Screen Scene from "The School for Scandal." Miss
Annie Mayor appeared, of coarse, as Lady Teazle, and
directly we saw her, Charles Surface had all onr sym-
pathy. The house was only a fair one, which is to be
regretted. “ Ben?.," however, have been numerous
lately, and the counter attractions that night were
enough to close the doors of a revivalist preacher.
* * * *
The revival of “ Faust ’’ at the Gaiety Theatre
resulted in a great artistic triumph, all the singers
being in splendid voice. Miss Annis Montague’s Mar-
guerite has already been frequently noticed in this
Journal, bat it is with pleasure we add, in the present
issue, that she has vastly improved upon the imper-
sonation since last we saw her in the part. In her
Binging there was little to improve upon, bat even her
vocal rendering of Gounod’s beautiful music is more
delightful than of yore, while her acting betrays evi-
dence of the additional study which she has bestowed
on the character. Mr, Turner was as effective as usual,
and from first to last seconded, in a masterly manner,
the efforts of his talented wife. It is no wonder that
these artistes grow in popular favour, because, so far as
they are individually concerned, they acqnit themselves
in every opera they produce in a maimer which always
commands applause, and frequently evokes enthusiasm.
Sydney is fortunate in the temporary possession of Mr.
Turner and Miss Montague, and their departure (may
it be long distant!) will be deeply felt by all who have
witnessed their performances of high-class opera in
Messrs. Bayless and Solomon’s bijou of a theatre.
* * #
In the aggregate, the Gaiety company is stronger
in “ Faust ’’ than in any opera yet produced by them.
Mr. E. Farley, though, at times, a trifle monotonous,
is a most excellent Mephistopheles; aud when Mr.
Templeton is in voice, and likes to do it, his Valentine
is a part in which he appears at his very best. Miss
Lambert is also nice as Siebel, though we may whisper
that if she would try to make up a little less like Miss
Lambert in tranks and hose, and a little more like a
German student who does a lot of fighting and drinks a
lot of beer, the effect of the performance would be
considerably enhanced. We can gaze upon (and ad-
mire) Miss Lambert at any time, but we can only see
Siebel on “ Faust ” nights. Miss Trevanion plays
Martha very mnch as it she had got hold of the part
of Mrs. Bouncer (in “ Box and Cox ’’) by mistake, and
her fooling with the devil is terribly mild stuff indeed.
We should like to see Miss Trevanion as Mrs. Bouncer
very well, but we shall just manage to survive it if we
behold her as Martha no more. The mise-en scene is
excellent, and Mr. Leon Caron directs the music with
his usual skill. The success, indeed, which has attended
the production of the various operas, is, as Mr. Turner
cheerfully admits, in no small measure due to Mr.
Caron’s unwearying efforts in the trial capacities of
musical director, chorus-master, and conductor.
* * * *
Mr. Hazelmayer played four nights last week
at the School of Arts to moderate business—and that,
too, in spite of special Vice-regal patronage, and a
present of the Princes' photos. Professor Haselmayer is
very clever—a truly neat and accomplished conjuror.
The birds and mice are really such old friends that though
(on account of their extreme age) we respect them, we
cannot sa> that their part of the exhibition braced nplour
intellects much. We’ve seen birds and mice on Margate
sands that could give the Professor’s points, and though
we have never heard any but Mr. Haselmayer perform on
the styloscarfe, we have a vivid remembrance of a vir-
tuoso, in another clime, who used to play tunes on the
penny whistle in a manner which would cause Mr.
Haselmayer, could he hear him, to immediately resign
the styloscarfe for the primitive instrument of the per-
former we have mentioned. The Professor’s turn out
is very splendid, and Madame in the crystal cabinet
looked lovely. The show is on excellent one, even when
you’ve seen it before. But when you have never seen it,
the performance is quite more than superlatively
entrancing.
* * * *
Last Thursday the Protestant Hall was the
scene of the ninth annual concert of the Euphonic
Orchestral Society, in the course of which an orchestra
of young ladies played selections from Lucrezia Borgia.
This was very much admired, the performer on the
drum holding the audience spell-bound. The talents of
the players, of course, varied, and there was a tendency
on part of the lady violinists to over-rosin their beaux
The ’cellist sawed away in a manner that showed, at
onoe, she had a muscular arm and a musical spirit,
while the first violin got so much sound out of
her instrument that she and the audience seemed sur-
prised and delighted in an equal degree. The clarionet
player was only a partial success, tor though she blew a
great deal of wind iuto’ her clarionet, she didn’t blow
much sound out of it. There was one thing amongst
the orchestra (that struck us as evincing a painstaking
spirit amongst the musicians. Each one appeared to
be (doing her best to make her instrument individually
heard, and therefore the effect was really very striking
indeed. Mr. Graham conducted with great patience,
and never once rent his hair and broke his baton. We
tore ourselves away after Lucrezia; we were so full of
music that we wanted to sing to ourselves on the shores
of the ever-rolling ocean.
* * * *
Hunter’s Hill is getting along : it has its muni-
cipal chambers, and its musical society ; and the other
day the latter gave an entertainment in the former,
consisting of Balfe’s “ Bohemian Girl.” The conductor
was Mr. Hector M’Lean, the well-known musician, and
the performers were a number of ladies and gentlemen
who are as yet unknown to musical fame, either profes-
sionally or otherwise. The affair was a most magnifi-
cent success—a musical triumph, which will live in the
memories of the Hunter’s Hillites until the next Mil-
bum Creek affair, or another monster shark is caught
off Bradley’s Head. The prima donna played Arline in
a manner which secured for her the admiration of her
relations—her aplomb, during the whole of the opera,
being remarkable. Thaddeus had a very bad cold, and
Devilsboof a very bad corn —but, nevertheless, both
glayed to perfection. Some of the notes went up so
igh that they lapped the dust off the rafters; and
when Devilsboof growled his low G, those immediately
in front felt quite a tickling in the soles of their feet.
The Count was sublime, and Florenstein was funnier
than any funeral that ever wound its way into the
Necropolis. The Gipsy Queen looked every inch a
Gipsy, and every yard a monarch, and her staccato
notes got an answer from every curlew on the Parra-
matta Eiver. In short, the affair (as we before re-
marked) was a splendid success. When the entertain-
ment was over, half the audience went to Sydney, and
half to Gladesville.
* * * *
We have got the straight tip, by a North Queeensland
ship.
That at Townsville our dear “ Little Nell" is ;
And the weather, we’re told, up in that land of gold,
(We will put it like this:) hot as
And the diggers up there, by her saucy face swear.
Now we always called Marion nice ;
But she’s Marion once, and, would tell any dunce.
She couldn’t be Marion twice.
Biddle us this. And if you can’t, perhaps Harry
Emmett will manage to solve it for you.
* * *
Lynn in Townsville, at Town Hall.
Biz. he's doing ?—None at all.
* * * *
The Mastodon Minstrels must either be twins,
or have split up, for, while the troupe of that
name has gone overland to Melbourne, behold another
Mastodon crowd were, at latest dates, at Kiatna. The
local press gives them a good deal of taffy, more espe-
cially to a violinist called Kuster, who, considering that
he is quite unknown here, is, we should hardly think,
a-Knster-omed—(we give this for the corner-man) —to
such kudos. They had a good house, and went away to
Cooma with moufs distended—followed, of course, by a
weeping crowd of rustic beauties.
* * * *
Is it a joke ?—lf so, ’tis one unmanly
But yet ’tas not a “ wheeze,’’ we feel.
Mark this !—the Major-Gen’ral Stanley
At Christchurch is—Barry O’Neil.
What I —Barry in op’ra—oh, come, you know 1
He last was with a wax-work show.
* * * *
In a recent theatrical paragraph which appeared
in our evening contemporary, we find that, at the Opera
House, lately, the following characters were played by
the following performers : —“ Charles Surface, Mr.
Wybert Beeve; Joseph Surface. Mr. Frank Cates; Sir
Peter Teazer, Mr. Frank; and Lady Teazer, by the
beaeficiare." Poor Bichard Brinsley I You were tor-
mented enough when living: can’t they leave you alone
now you are m the cold ground 1*
** * *
Mr. Walter Reynolds has written us a charac-
teristic letter, in which he informs us that he encloses
a cutting (which, of courte, is not there), stating that
he has had justice doue him in re his row with Pollard.
Our lives are now brighter, since our prayers have been
answered. We also learn that Westen, the magician
and dog-trainer, opened in Auckland, on which occasion
he returned to the audience their eight shillings, and
offered to play to them for nothing. His dogs, however,
seeing no supper hauging to this racket, barked so loud
that the spectators dispersed in confusion, leaving
Westen and the hall proprietor to enjoy a pleasant
interview.
» • •
Walter says he can’t lease the theatre there, so
is going to produce “ Les Cloches ’* at Lome Hall—but
whether with “ kids "or not, he does not explain. He
also remarks that “The Cardens” are excellent, but
don’t draw for second-hand tracts ; and further informs
us that the Wilkinson and Love faction have turned,
“ Pirates,” under King Carey. The rest of his note is
mere Beynolds and Walter.
** * *
Our correspondent at Auckland writes on 10th
August:—Business ‘with the Carden Company at the
Theatre Boyal has looked up considerably during the
past two weeks. The produotion of "The Belief of
Lucknow” was a very unsatisfactory one, only holding
the boards for three nights. Miss Marston Leigh made
an indifferent Jessie Brown. The company have also
presented up to date with more or less success, “ East
Lynne," “ The Colleen Bawn," “ Frozen Deep,"
“ Bomantic Family," " The Stranger,” a burlesque on
“ Macbeth," “ Arrah na Pogue " and “ After Dark.”
The Carden engagement closes on the 12th, Fred
Marshall making his ddbut on the following evening as
Charley Spraggs in " Blow for Blow." Mr, and Mrs.
Marshall, his brother, and agent, Mr. F. H. Pollock, ar-
rived here yesterday. Pollock was a member of a con.'-
pany playing with Mr. Harry Daniels in the Prince or 1
Wales Theatre, 16 years ago.
* * * *■
Walter Reynolds was sued at Auckland by a
domestic servant, named Isabella Miller, for the re-
covery of 9a. 6d., which, it was alleged, she paid to him
in excess of the price of a stall ticket, admitting her to
one of the “ Pinafore ’* performances there. Walter
had all the beet of it, coming out with clean hands.
The plaintiff did not appear, and the magistrate held
that as she was not present there was no case before
the court, and, consequently, no case could be heard or
judgment given. The opposing counsel pressed for a
verdict one way or the other; the magistrate repeating
he could not give one, but cast him costs—if that would
please him. Reynolds’ solicitor did not wish to press
for costs. During the hearing of the case a little bit of
the “ Pinafore " trouble came to light, and it tran-
spired that the real prosecutor in the case was—if
there were no juries of four, we’d give the name. At
the conclusion, Walter got leave to make a state-
ment to the Bench, when he said : —“ This is a clear
case of champerty, and I have simply appeared this
morning for the purpose of showing that there is a per-
son in the Court who did not hesitate to become a de-
fendant in a case against himself in order to join with a
contemptible disciple of Paul Fry, in making a public
statement that I had put in my pocket 9s. 6d. which
did not belong to me."
** * *
Dated from “ Marine Hotel, Batavia,” we have
received from Mr. E. D’Orsay Ogden a charming com-
munication, in which ho informs us that he is “ taking
his * Java ’ with plenty of i‘ sugar ’ ” (he was always a
giddy boy); and also that “I am delighted to state that
the people here are showing the same insane desire to
see ns as they did to see Bistort in Australia ’’—a state-
ment which we would rather die than question.
D’Orsay also forwards us a Batavian programme,
which, as a sample of printing, is own brother to the
Parramatta Ferguson. From this typographical phe-
nomenon, which is rather over a yard long, we glean
that the tronpe is performing at the “ Bataviasche
Schouwburg," and also that in the course of the first
piece, “ Een Kus in den Donker ’’ (presumably “A Cuss
on a Donkey"), this will occur:—“ Een jonge mijnheer,
die van zijn beminde het jawoord met heeft kunnen
verkrijgen van wege zijn bleu-heid, tracht onder de ver-
momming van een gezelsohapsbeer bij een zieke, de
dame zijne liefde al voorlezende to betuigen. In den
loop van het Comedietje zullen de volgeude stukken
worden gezongen door Miss. Beatrice." We don’t
exactly know what this means, so far; but we hope she
will do it well—especially the “ gezelschapsoheer.”
** * *
Byron’s new comedy, “ Punch,” produced at
the London Vaudeville, is an unmitigated frost. The
plot is thin, aud there is little or no sparkle in the dia-
logue. “ Carados," with his usual aptness, says that it
was not “Punch" at all, because it hadn’t any spirit in
it. The hero is Professor Mistletoe, a Punch-and-Jndy
man, and this is excellently well played by Mr. David
James. The whole business is, however, so feeble, that
not even his acting could save the piece.—We learn,
also, that James Mortimer’s (editor Figaro) “ Butterfly
Fever," at the Criterion, is only a moderate success,
notwithstanding that “Pink Dominoes" is a hymn-
book to it.
** * *
Mr. H. B. Farnie lately gave one Ball, the
property-man at the London Strand, a pipe. And this
is the poetry that pipe inspired in the massive mind of
Ball :
“ Carved out of Meerschaum, a Forest Glade
True to Nature is each projecting Tree,
By a skilful Frenchman formed and made.
And kindly presented by Mr. Farnie to me.”
Now, why doesn’t Mr. Ball emigrate ? He would do
well out here, where this kind of poetry is in such
demand.
** * *
To Mr. Ben. A. Greene, the town crier of
Charters Towers (an old pro.), we are indebted for a
nicer letter than ever we imagined could come from a
bellman. He says the Hudson crowd left the Towers
on the 2nd, having done a capital business. Our cor-
respondent wishes us to state that he considers the
appellation, “ town crier," beneath the dignity of his
office, so desires to be designated in this journal as the
“campanologist” (whatever that may mean)—a wish
we are perfectly ready to gratify; and, in return for
which, he will, of course, give The Bulletin an occa-
sional ring through the Towers on the cheap.
• # •
He says;—“ I have been in the profession my-
self, and I adore it (!); but I cannot bear amateurs, who
think they know more and are better than pros. I
christened Miss Ada Mayen “ The little Melbourne
Cuckoo," and I used to style her as that when I was
ringing for Hudson; and I told her I would send down
word to your paper to that effect. She was a great
favourite of mine, and all the Melbourne actresses are."
Benjamin further remarks that Miss Maven created
havoc (which we predicted) in the hearts of all up
there, and we rather think our campanological friend
is a bit hit himself. The Hudsons are expected in
Sydney, we believe, in the course of six weeks or so,
when, with a thoroughly re-organised company, they
will play a short season at the School of Arts, prior to
taking another turn at India. However, Tommy’s
arrangements like Melville's politics—are rather
uncertain,
** * *
It is with great pleasure that we call the atten-
tion of our readers to the fact that Mr. Wybert Eeeve’s
benefit takes place on Friday (to-morrow) night at the
Opera House, on which occasion the Company will ap-
pear in “George Qeith" and “Uncle’s Will.” Mr.
Eeeve is a very clever actor—a much cleverer actor we
think than he is an author. But then a man can’t be
everything 1 In endeavouring to dramatise “No
Nome," for instance, Mr. Eeeve set upon an herculean
task. Though intensely dramatic in itself, Mr. Collins'
master-piece (for it is his master-piece) can never be
rendered amenable to stage requirements. The inci-
dents are too laboriously worked up to, and the locales
are too scattered. Then in the novel, Captain Wragge
is, so far as the plot is concerned, only a subordinate
character, while upon Madeline Vanstone the whole
machinery hinges. With “ George Qeith ’’ it is dif-
ferent, and with this Mr. Beeve has made a compact
little play in which he appears to great advantage.
“ A Happy Pair ” is Theyre Smith’s best comedietta,


And in this the hentfisiare should be very funny as the
honeymooning husband.
** * *
To-morrow (Friday), the Burwood Literary and
Dramatic Association will give an entertainment at the
School of Arts in that pleasant suburb, though in aid
ef whom or what does not appear. “ Withered
Leaves,” and “ Hunting a Turtle,” constitute the
programme, and we shall do our best to attend. To be
frank with our readers, we have long dreamed of find-
ing time to voyage to Burwood to be entertained, and
now, we trust, onr dream is about to be realised. We
see that Mr. H. Matthews is stage manager, Mr. A. J.
Simson, the hon. treasurer, and Air. H. L. Thomson,
the hon. secretary; and also, that carriages may be
ordered for 10 p.m. We trust our coachman will
accept this intimation, in case we should forget to tell
him.
** * *
Miss Clara Hamilton (who will sing no more for
-the Highland Society) is shortly to give an entertain-
ment, entitled, " Twa Oors at U ime.” We are inclined
to consider that the general spirit of the entertainment
-will be Scotch ; but this is mere conjecture. However,
we can stake our last baubee that Clara's “ Twa Oors ”
-won't be at hame entertainment. Hoot I
** * *
Mr. Thiodon announces his last two weeks at
the Polytechnic, at the conclusion of which period the
veteran showman retires from business. As this gentle-
man has catered long and successfully for the public,
the least his friends can do is to rally round him during
the remainder of his tenure of the m-aison magique in
Pitt-street.
** * *
The performance of the Hercules Dramatic
•Club at the Queen's Theatre, on Monday night, was, as
most amateur performances are—peculiar. But the
peculiarities in the representation of the “ Lancashire
Lass ’’ by these gentlemen (we use the word advisedly)
were by no means so marked as those of some amateur
'cieties, whose efforts it has been our lot, with groans,
,j witness. It must, however, be remembered that the
Hercules Club do not play their own ladies, and, there-
fore, on Monday night, the go of the piece was in a con-
siderable degree enhanced by the efforts of Miss Marian
Willis —though as to whether her two lady coadjutors
did much to send the thing along, is a matter of
opinion. Of course we could say more—
But we would sooner go to Hades,
Than cruel things write of these ladies;
And, oh, the lines so sweet and good.
We'd sing of these dears— if tee could.
* # #
The play commenced with the disadvantage of
a seething, yowling, spitting pit—a collection of larri-
kins, the like of which has not been seen since the last
public hanging match. Why these yelping scarecrows
always select the theatre as an arena in which
to give a public display of their blackguardism and
obscenity, is best known to themselves; but we sup-
pose the reason is because it would not be tolerated
anywhere else. Hero’s a gentle sketch of them in
troches:—
Packed together, howling, swearing,
" Gouging,” kicking, spitting, tearing;
Steaming beads on ev’ry forehead,
Smoking, and, oh, smelling horrid.
Coatless—full of grime and grit—
That’s a picture of the pit!
* * *
The cast embodied a number of gentlemen,
nearly all of whom were of the Chosen Eace. Indeed,
on standing outside the theatre between the acts, it
seemed as though we were before the entrance to the
Tabernacle in the Wilderness, and we momentarily
expected to hear Joshua trot up and command the moon
to go round.
But let it not be thought we choose.
To even gently joke the Jews;
We laugh not at Hebraic lore.
For soon we may want wealth galore!
And our offended friends could punish
Us by saying—got no monish.
But to be serious—and when we are writing of amateurs
and the Bomanys come into our thoughts, we never can
be serious.
» « »
Mr. I. Reginald Cohen, who is the bright par-
ticular comet of the club, of course, the heavy business
being his speciality, played Bobert Eedburn, the Ad-
venturer, and wo are delighted to admit that he was
"all there” as the villain double-dyed. Indeed, so fear-
fully iniquitous was he that, at an early stage in the
proceedings, we thirsted for his blood. But though, in
his excess of confidence, he slightly overdid the
" blood-curdle racket,” he played the part all through
with some ability. Mr. Whiddon, upon whose
shoulders fell the mantle—we beg pardon—the " slops"
of the Party by the name of Johnson, gave us a per-
formance that was full of light and shade. As an
amateur he was excellent: as an actor, his impersona-
tion lacked breadth and polish. Mr. M'Laren’s Ned
Clayton (an awful bore, by the way) was intensely re-
spectable ; the “ Spotty” of Mr. Forrest was, as might
have been expected from a Forrest—woody ; while the
Danville of Mr. W. Reynolds’ (namesake of our own
Walter), was rather jerky. Mr. Emanuel made a com-
mendable comic Sergeant, and Mr. Ackman’s Captain
is a performance which will live in our nightmares.
* * *
Mias Marian Willis was, of course, all right as
Buth Kirby, and the piece was put on with an amount
of splendour, for the Queen’s, that was as unlooked-for
as it was welcome. There was abundance of applause
and orange peel, and any amount of enthusiasm and
nuts. In short, the Hercules A.D.C. and Mr. J. H.
Eainford are to be congratulated on a successful per-
formance, for a truly good and charitable object, and
when the “spons.” accruing are handed over to Mrs.
Bout (which will be done, doubtless, at an early date),
the Club will have earned the sincere thanks of the
Sydney public.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Is it ihat “ the divinity that doth hedge a
king ” does not encircle as with a halo our fungus
aristocracy, or can it be that policemen have better
, eyes for thieves than they have for our shoddy nobility ?
Here is an unrecorded incident attendant on a recent
public ceremony. A certain “ distinguished ’’ person,
who arrived late, gave no name, but insisted on passing
the barrier. The constable in charge firmly but respect-
fully stated that he had imperative orders to let no one
pass. “ Fellow,’* exclaimed the dignitary, “ you will
yet know who I am—you will be sorry for this." The
prephepy has been fulfilled. The constable has since
been disrated for too faithfully doing his duty and not
-recognising by instinct the presence of one who had the
power to do him an injury. In the days of Frederick
of Prussia the man would have received promotion.
• What a pity he didn’t “go the whole hog,"
And lock up the dignitary for insulting behavior.
* * *
. Dhbbo doesn’t seem to agree with the splendid
litterateur who does the Paris letter for a spirited con-
temporary. In allusion to Victor Hugo’s new book he
f 1 ?® M. Grew received the complimentary volumes
in the morning, and in the afternoon wrote to Hugo the
pleasure he felt in perusing, &c. It would seem from
the fulsome adulation showered on the poet, that such
w as necessary to his existence, as to babies." Try
Jnurrumburrah, old chap.
# * *
A well-known individual in Gundagai, the orator
9 1 bos t Fry’s bar parlour, was recently holding forth
7? “i admiring audience on the subject of Banks, which
possibly failed to negotiate a temporary over-
araft) he designated as * Parasites preying on the
vitals of the community.” •• What are they ?" con-
sumed Demosthenes, waxing eloquent, “ Do they ever
grow a potato ? Do they ever rear a sheep ?’’ “ No,”
replied a very old squatter, “ they don’t rear ’em, but,
anyhow *’ oly poker,! they shearß - a good lot of 'em,
• • •
juvenile gatherings at which
fch o form of cake, and benevolence that of
—i,;„t a j. 1® episode ruffled the oleaginous smoothness
•2a ii? r T na^H y prevails on such occasions. Everyone
beaming like a component part of anew variety of
solar-system. The ladies trotted round the tables
and amiably insisted on each individual child eating
more than was good for it, and, having accomplished
this desirable end, they were feeling too good for this
world and rather surprised that wings had not begun to
sprout from their shoulders. One hardened district
visitor, with a talent for prescribing, alone resisted the
soft influences of the scene, and was finding a grim
satisfaction in mentally noting the most heavily gorged
innocents, and looking forward to a succession of
avenging descents at their parents’ residences next
morning with an attractive assortment of medicinal
“ mixtures." The good pastor had jast wound up his
ten-minute-long story of bland inanities, delivered in an
alternation of bland (moral) passages and giggling
(humorous) passages, which he considered among the
chief attractions of the occasion, mistaking the gog-
gling eye-protrusion resulting from surfeit for the
fixed regard of intelligent appreciation. It was at this
moment that a zealous patroness, anxious to get ahead
of the other competitors for sainthood, was struck by a
bright idea, and, swooping upon the repletest little girl
present, pressed her to fill her pockets with the good
things that remained unconsumed. The child was bash-
ful —evidently winced at the idea : the lady was persua-
sive, urgent—would hear of no denial; was determined
to overcome all false delicacy. She would fill the little
pockets herself. The little cherub struggled—resisted.
The kind, good lady, laughingly overpowered her, and,
with one hand full of good things and her heart full of
sweetness, opened the little girl’s pockets. They proved
to be quite full already 1
• * #
Our readers may,—in fact under the Treason
Act they must—remember that the principal
actors in the recent Squadron festivities held at Botany
were Prince Albert Victor, a fat turkey, a sore-eyed.
Dr. Tanner sort of dog, and a big sapling. The day
after the Prince sailed the Botany relics were sold by
public auction at the following ridiculously low prices.
The turkey was first put up, and after some spirited
mdding knocked down to the Museum for 750 guineas.
The dog brought £3OOO, and the ‘‘.waddy " was sold at
£l7O a foot. After this let no one say we are as devoid
of loyalty as we are of—sense.
* * #
Birth.—At her residence, Pitt-street, Mrs. Evening
News, of a joke —still born. Home papers please copy.
Death.—Died, at the residence of his afflicted grand-
mother, Hunter-street, “Zig-Zag Papers,” youngest
son of Mr. and Mrs. Echo, aged 21. “ Not lost, but gone
before
Considerable excitement now prevails in the
sporting world as to the result of the present match
between Sir Henry Parkes’s yellow terrier “ Small-pox,"
and Mr. Charles Goodchap’s brindled bull-dog " Tram-
car,” who were lately matched to kill 1000 citizens in
the shortest time, for £SOO aside ani the championship
of the colonies. On the strength of his previous vic-
tories, “ Small-pox ” was at first the favourite at 4 to
I—no takers; —but “ Tram-car " has shown such splen-
did form of late that the betting is now level. At pre-
sent the game stands at 8 •* love," and " Tram-car "
has the next bite. Both owners are sanguine of suc-
cess, and the dogs are as fit as fiddles.
* * *
“ Mr. Roche, proprietor of the Adelaide Bul-
letin, assaulted Mr. M’Clory, editor of the Licensed
Victuallers’ Gazette, on Saturday, for publishing
lines purporting to describe the doings of a gallant
cockroach, and entitled “ The Cockroach and the Hen."
—Ltbe.
The Balmain Perry people are too self-denying.
They have just lowered the fares, whereas they ought
to raise them. Not content with giving the passengers
boats whose horse-power is more nominal than that of
the Great Eastern, and cabins before the gorgeousness
of which even the splendour of the Orient must pale its
fires, the proprietors throw in a number of additional
attractions which the absurdly pampered passengers
have certainly no right to expect. In the first place
humorous boys are employed, who perform on the decks
with brooms just after the boats have started, and these
same nineteenth-century jesters exhibit a skill in raising
mimic thunder with the landing planks that would
arouse the jealousy of any stage carpenter. In addition
to these nautical varieties, certain boats at night-time,
on reaching Mort's Dock, by way of affording such
voyageurs as are without scruples to obtain firing for
nothing, land the passengers at a coal-shed. In the
depth of _ winter, this was an attraction, —but, as the
weather is now warmer, and as the passengers have
stolen all the coal they require, they naturally don’t
want to impose any more on the Company’s good nature.
The thing is. they say—What can we do to express our
feelings? We might suggest—Get up a bad-shilling
subscription, and present the Company with a mule.
* * •
A few years since the brother of a well-known
professional man returned to an Australian capital
after finishing a Continental education. He was a good
scholar, a capital musician, and a splendid billiard
player, besides which he was a clever boxer, and—an
inveterate gambler. He lost no time in re-commencing
his old games. “ The governor ” soon told him that if
he would persist in making an hotel of the ancestral
halls he would be obliged to turn him out. The
“ young *un,” of course, promised reformation, but, in
a very short time, he broke out again, and at three one
morning returned to the paternal mansion, only to find
that the “ old bird," was in waiting, and that his boxes
were piled up outside. The gay one tried to make it up
again, but the old gentleman slammed the door in his
face, exclaiming, ** Never again, sir, shall you enter this
house!” With some difficulty the spendthrift got a
cab to take his luggage down town, and on coming to
pay found that all ho had in the world was one shilling.
The difference he borrowed from a friend, and with it
squared the cabman. Next evening, while meditatively
smoking his pipe outside a certain newspaper office,
his .foot struckJia coin on the pavement. It was a
sovereign I Once more he had a fortune. He strolled
down to the theatre cafa and met some bookmakers
who were spinning the same wheel of fortune which is
still screwed to the bar counter. He " went in,” won a
10s. pool, continued playing till long after midnight,
ordered a case of champagne, and walked down the
street with £560 in his pocket. Went into another
hotel farther down, played poker until daylight, and
came out with £I7OO. Three days afterwards he drove
to the races in the best turn-out on the course, and—
pulled off a £IOOO double. For three subsequent years
he lived high, and then—went insolvent. Now he is
dead.
• « •
“ I would like to see a clause in the new Licens-
ing Bill preventing girls from serving behind the bars of
public-houses; and were such prohibition a matter of
Jaw, I am sure that, at the very least, drkking statistics
would decrease 50 per cent., and the morality of Sydney
be much enhanced.’’—Correspondent of the Telegraph.
Scene, the dining-room of a large house in a
fashionable suburb, recently occupied by a lady who,
though very rich, has risen from the ranks. Cook is
standing before the lady of the house receiving orders.
Mistress: “ There’ll bo a matter o’ fifty people at the
party to-morrow, Sarah.’’ Cook: “ Very well, ma’am ;
I shall have to make some sponge cakes, then, I sup-
pose, :to-morrow morning."/ Mistress: "Oh, that be
blowed, Sarah; I mnst set the sponge myself to-night.”
We wonder how long it will be before this lady walks up
on the platform and hob-nobs with His Excellency !
* m *
Sydney is getting civilized. It has long been
known that London has several unimportant Clubs—
the Savage, the Garrick, the Dilettanti, and others—
where various obscure literary, theatrical, and scientific
men meet for social converse, and admission into which
wealth alone is powerless to procure. Well, we have,
at last, got our Club for clever men in which to assemble,
but with the Sydney institution " gentlemen of position
in Society ’’ are also eligible. The cercle in question is
called " The Owl Club," and it held its first meeting on
Wednesday, 10th instant, at the Metropolitan Hotel.
A report of that meeting is before us, and from it we
gather that " the inauguration was commenced by Mr.
Morris Menser, the secretary, reading an ode written
on the occasion of the first ordinary meeting of the Club,
by an Owl." From this composition, we at once per-
ceive that the literary element mnst be very strong in
the Club. It is not stated who ,the author is, but we
suspect this reticence is merely another instance of the
characteristic modesty of the secretary. Mark the
Homeric opening:—
“ You know, or should have learned before this evening.
What is intended by this Owly seeming, (sic)
If net, you’ll please to wait nor your perches leave.
And be(ak) quiet whilst I this knotty point cleave."
Here, at once, we get humour, fire, rhythm, and a lovely
flow of language. After a dissertation on Owls, which,
as a rhyming essay in Natural history, certainly stands
alone in the language, we come to the following;—
“ We’ll show you how a few hours can be spent
In every intellectual! enjoyment.
Literature, Science, Drama, and the Arts,
Can be reproduced by well knowing our parts.”
This assuredly clinches the matter; and if we had any
doubts about intercourse with the Owls being conducive
to " intellectual enjoyment," why this remarkable ode
would have caused them instantly to vanish. But we
never had 1 We, therefore, take this opportunity, not
only of wishing the Club every prosperity, but of humbly
suggesting the adoption by them of this couplet from
Pope’s “ Dnnciad:"—
“ Silence, ye wolves! whilst Ralph to Cynthia howls.
Making night hideous—answer him, ye owls.”
* * •
Scene: Government House, just prior to Cabinet
meeting. Lord L. (on the doorstep, loq. to invisible
personage): " Not to-day, baker; call again to-morrow,
and bring—a portfolio.”
* * *
The other day, one reporter on a daily paper met
another reporter on another daily, in Clarence-street,
carrying a side of bacon, “ Why, what are you doing ?”
cried reporter No. 1. “ I’ve done," returned the
other; *’ I’ve been getting the quotations of Colonial
produce."
• • •
Mr. Atkinson advertises that he has retired from
the Australian Sportsman. We wonder whether that
oesthetio critic who used to write from the “ Stage Box"
has retired too. Surely the paper “ whose success was
assured ” before it appeared, cannot have retired like-
wise ? We ask this, because not having seen the paper
thrust itself forward lately, we have come to the con-
clusion that it must be of a modest—which means a
retiring—disposition. Vive le Sp —we mean, le frozen
beef.
* * *
At the Police Court, the other day, a prisoner
had been tried for stealing some trifling article, when,
at the conclusion of the case, he was asked if he would
have it decided there or sent to a higher court. The
accused scratched his head, and eagerly scanned the
faces on the bench. " Who’s that there gem’man ?" he
enquired, pointing to a magistrate in whose features
austerity and sanctimoniousness were very prominently
blended. “ That's Mr. Macmull," replied the chairman.
“ Then send me up to the Quarter Sessions," rejoined
the prisoner. And when the chuckling of the unsoaped
behind the rail had at length been silenced, the sten-
torian voice of the sergeant proclaimed the next case.
But by that time Mr. M. was seized with—a desire to
be gone.
* # •
What’s the matter with the Newcastle corres-
pondent of the Evening Ghost. He telegraphs that
“Mr. J. R. Single, vice-consul for Italy at Newcastle,
entertained the Commodore of H.I.M.S. Europa," and
says further on that, " In acknowledging the toast of
his health, Captain Romano spoke in the most enthu-
siastic terms of the pleasure he felt," Ac. &c. Then
concludes with the following:—“ Commander Romano
and his .officers are at present the guests of Mr. Alex.
Brown, at East Maitland.” Now we know who the
Captain is—but what is the par. ?—Can it bo also Rum-
or-no ?
w * #
There is a great deal of talk about irfernal
machines being shipped to Dundee. It will be un-
necessary for any miscreants to land any of them here.
We are well provided already. We have - got the tram.
# # •
That little brook in the West, whose waters now
scarce trickle across the sand, boasts of an attraction
in the shape of the champion mean squatter. He lived
under two sheets of bark for years, and only the other
day woke up to his extravagance. He found he could
do with one. He and his brothers are worth £200,000.
They sold £1000 worth of stock the other day, and re-
solved upon a spree. The elder was to do the honours.
Walking into the principal hotel, he called for a nobbier
of brandy—asked to be obliged with a biscuit, and it
was given in; then requested two clean glasses, which
also were provided. What he did with them wo
needn’t say. All that is written of them is this—they
walked home sober. And yet that man gives prizes—
which, however, he alone can win. Still the people are
eager to do something for him—put up a tombstone, tor
instance.
* • •
Mr. John Ferguson says, in his gigantic Parra-
matta broad-sheet, that Mr. Cyrus Fidler “is alarmed
at the success that has attended the Evenins Times."
Now, if we were asked, we should say that was just
what Mr. John Ferguson ought to be alarmed at.
* * *
When the young Princes arrived near Sir Henry
Parkes’s residence, at Faulconbridge, George cried out
—“What a nice little lodge I How far is it up to the
house?”
• • *
One William Beer, a cotnpo. in the Qundagai
Times office, has been writing poetry in that journal.
He begins:—
** Ere old Sol graced the azure blue, I climbed
The summit of Parnassus' height."
All right, William. Get down as quickly as you can,
old man, and put in your dis. When that’s done, and
you’ve set up old Flutfum’s letter on ringbarking, and
the column ad. about the man who cures cancer with
parsley sauce, you can do another climb.
• * *
“Endymion,” a writer in the Queenslander,
states that a " gentleman ’’ in Brisbane has the follow-
ing communication which he has received from a lady,
pasted on the wall of his office“ I have borne with
your impertinent intrnsiveness, hoping that the con-
tempt expressed in every face you met in my house
?ould, in the end, penetrate eyen your rhinoceros hide,
have now given orders to my servants to receive no
message nor cord from you, nor shall they answer any
of your inquiries. She who allows you to enter my
house leaves it herself. Those who cannot live without
your society—and I should think they are few—must
live elsewhere." We wonder whether “ Endymion’s"
idea of a gentleman differs'from that of the world in
general. We should think it did. What the idea of the
owner of the office is in placarding on the wall this scien-
tific slating is a mystery to us, unless, indeed, he wishes
to proclaim to the universe that he once numbered a
lady among his acquaintance.
* • *
A man advertises in the News for a “ splendid
cow.” We can’t accommodate him, but can refer him
to the Telegraph for a splendid bull.
• * ♦
From the Ltbe : —“ Notice.—l, Stephen Black,
of Five Dock, hereby authorise the public not to pay
any money to any one without my authority. Stephen
Black." This is all very well, old fellow,“but you are
too selfish. You may have had a little difference with
the “ missis," but that is no earthly reason why trade
should cease. Personally, we have no particular desire
to pay any money to anyone, so therefore will await
your authorization. That being the case, Stephen, go
for a trip to—the Andes—whenever you like.
• * *
It’s been a long time coming, but has arrived at
last. We allude to the Prize Ode to the Princes. The
poem was written by a lady on the occasion of the
Soungsters laying the corner-stone of a church at North
hore. The fair bard has got into rather a fog with her
singular and plural numbers, but no trivial error of that
description could detract from the unliquidated beauty
of the whole. Here goes:—
" A day of days—a mom without a cloud—
To greet thee (sic). Princes (sic), on our Northern
Shore;
We pray no darkness may thy (sic) life enshroud,
But calm and peace rest o’er thee (sic) evermore."
We can only copy one more verse, as the waggon is
waiting tc take the rest of it away. Here it is—No. 2i—
" Thy hands have placed the precious corner-stone.
Thy voice has called it' truly laid and good ;’
And we assembled, in one hearty tone
Would fain have blessed thee, as around we stood."
And there is no doubt whatever but that she meant it.
Well, there—the balance is gone. And yet it was
written on nice paper, delicately scented with patch ouli.
However, new that the boys are “ off,” we hope our lady
friends will turn off the scented ode tap, or—to use
another expression—not come the ode-o’er-us.
* * *
Last Wednesday morning—in “the wee sma’
hours ayont the twal," —a well-known churchwarden,
after much fumbling with his latch-key at his front
door, let himself into his residence, and immediately
extinguished the candle in the hall in an attempt to
hang up his ulster, curled himself up on the hall mat,
and went fast asleep. He was awakened, by-and-bye,
by the dig of a slippered foot, and looking drowsily up,
saw a tall form, clothed in white, standing over him.
“ Where have you been, Adolphus ?" enquired the
figure in a sepulchral tone. “ Tear Shapm’n’s roga-
tions, Pros-all," he rejoined. “And what was the first
piece?" she enquired, severely. “ Firs'piece, ‘Oli-
vette.’ ”... We haven’t seen the items of Thomp-
son and Giles's bill, but we have it, on good authority,
that a “ pony " wouldn’t cover the sum total.
* « •
The mistress of the house was away, and the
new cook had given the master and a few friends an
execrably bad dinner. When the guests had departed,
the genial host (well-known at the bar) rang the beU
for the cook. On her appearance he cleared his throat
and said: “ Humph, it’s a rather delicate thing to say,
but —could you suit yourself if ” “ I’m a’ready
suited, sir, thank you," she interjected. “ He’s in the
hortillery.”
* * *
Mr. Dailey’s Chinese brief was marked =£2so.
No wonder the attorneys want to have a slide in IWe
understand that Mr, Pilcher is making ready for
another onslaught when the matter next crops up in
the House, and that 8. C. Brown is training in gall so
as to be ready for him. “Little" Abbott was heard to
mumble over his muffins in the refreshment-room the
other night something about “the Pilcher may go
many times to the well, but is broken at last." Ha, ha!
A time will come. But no matter!
* • «
This is a fact. When Mr. John Want had
smashed up the Crown case against Cocks, and got him
off, that worthy, grasping the talented counsel by the
hand, cried, “ Come down to my house, and take a
drink." “ Certainly," replied that legal farceur, walk-
ing with Cocks to his cab; “ but I must ask you to stop
somewhere on the road.” “Anywhere,” cried the
client, bursting with gratitude. “All right, then-
drive to the Mutual Life Assurance Company." Cocks
went off alone.
* * *
There is a well-known gentleman, who has taken
a certain dress-circle seat for the whole of the leg—we
mean the Musgrove season; and, clad in immaculate
evening dress, embellishes the theatre every night. Not
long ago, a lady, by some mistake, sate herself down in
this sacred chair; but before long the owner came in,
and requested her to move. “ I really beg your pardon,
usher," said the lady, rising. “I’m not an ushah,
madam," said the exquisite: “ I’m a subscribah."
* * •
The last edition of the Lithqow Mercury is
so full of Targett, that it is enough to make a bull sigh.
* « *
A London paper says : —“ Mr. Joseph Biggar,
M.F., is a bachelor, a teetotaller, a politician, and a pig
merchant. Asa pig merchant he is a big success, and
as a politician he is a Biggar. His age is 53; we don't
know his exact height, and his weight is immaterial."
This doesn’t lick us much. We have a member who is
a politician and a pig merchant also. But we don’t say
he is a bigger success as a legislator than a pig-jobber.
We should like to, but we know better. Hold on till
we bribe a few jurymen, or get a man we can rely on for
foreman!
V.
An octopus, measuring 12ft. by 12ft., was caught
in a net at Melbourne, the other day, and fought
desperately after its capture.
The youthful Emperor of China was said to be
in a critical condition from the ravages of small-pox for
twenty days. The Western Empress is being fed with
the milk of one hundred nurses.
IN MEMORIAM.
“ And they buried him under a gum—
Par away from the compo.’s glad song.
Where the frisky opossum doth hum.
And the • sojnr ant ’ joggeth along."
R.I.P.
From Adelaide, alas ! of late.
There comes a fearful story;
Of how M'Clory, Roche reproached,
And how Roche claw’d M'Clory.
Each had a rag, and out of them—
We don't say they made nuffin;
Nor do we dare to hint that each
Man was a rag a muff in.
No ! both were noble journalists
In this, our gory story :
M'Clory, oh, he hated Roche,
And Roche abhorred M'Clory.
M'Clory penn’d a little poem
(The least said soonest mended 1) ;
For you’ll see very quickly what
“The Cockroach and the Hen" did.
Roche read it, and then, lo, he cried —
“ I will avenge this slander
Then down to Mac.’s he quickly goes.
And up he gets his “ dander."
“ This is a case of war," howled Roche—
“ A printer’s war, or I’m a ”
He didn’t finish, but he took
To square him ‘ ■ a long primer.”
Said Roche, “ M'Clory, you’re a man,
I vow I do not fear, sir.
For I can beat a base bourgeois,
Because I am brevier, sir."
At it they went, till hair and teeth
Flew round the compo. chaps, sirs.
Till molars they began to set
Instead of pica caps., sirs.
At length M'Clory hit right out—
In Roche’s eye it took, sirs.
And then a common thing occurred,
A Roach quick took the hook, sirs.
We don’t know how the thing will end—
We’ve simply told the story
Of how M'Clory Roach reproached,
And how Roche clawed M'Clory.
Now, really, what a chap you are!
What! not a girl behind the bar
To hand you your glucose!
Can it be you're the sort of chap
That alwaya sticks to one hard “ tap,’*
And takes it straight and goes P
What! 'mongst the bottles not one faoe
The shadows of a bar to chase;?
One lily hand to press
Your own, as you sit on a cask ; —
And in a voice of music ask —
About that new silk dress f
Oh, is the heart within you dead.
That you can do without a head
Of tresses golden-brown.
That drops its curls into your gin.
And, with a sweet, angelic grin—
Bakes in your last half-crown f
What! do without a Hebe, who,
With melting eyes of liquid blue
Let’s her’s o’er your face range ;
And while she speaks to you of bliss.
And blows you, perhaps, an airy kiss.
Quick snavels all your change.
What 1 have no angels in our bars ?—
Then take from Heaven all its stars—
But there our raptures end: —
Some more, dear readers, shall be told
In liquid lines, of locks of gold.
When—we have some to spend.


Public Companl
CORNWALL FIEE AND Mi
ANCE COMPANY
CAPITAL, 4100,000
RESERVE FUND ...
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AN
Agents,
848 GEORGE-STEEI
SIDNEY.
The mutual assueanci
VICTOEIA (LIMITE
Established a.d. 1871
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Syd
Directors;
John Kee,p Esq., Chair,
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life
muting of Annuities and Endowmer
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to
rartionate amount of the entire
by at every distribution thereof,
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. M
Ret
JNCOMES AS
the civil service banking
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIET
This Society provides a certain fixe
members when thrown out of emplo;
Medical attendance durirg sickness
age, and when incapacitated from foil
ment through disease or accident; an<
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence
suitable re-engagemei
For further particulars, apply to
G. HORTON MORRIS
Secretarj
Wentw
EE
Applications for Agencies
Pb.otograpb.eri
FARLO U RS T
The Really Popular (and cheap) P
805 GEORGE STB
Opposite the Railway Tei
Especially esteemed for his portra
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6dper
ROARTT’S ST
m
ffiiijSS 1
m
a
m
i
i
uKI ADULTER ATE
BAK/NC POW
a
090
India and China Tb^
705 GEORGE STREET, HA
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new wa
We beg to call special• of g the
Blend, 2/-; Finest Royal S ' ’i, a 8 a guarantee of pm
Packed by ns, and bearing onr tr - catties, boxes, \
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b, f c *™ tr ’ V ellers.-
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or oi o
DA
AWARDED the
for Sewing M
ONLY FIRST
MEDAL, at
1881.
FIRST and SP:
Public Compan
The meecantile bani
ESTABLISHED 1
IKCOKPOEATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-up Capital..
Beserve Fund....
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King, M.L.
AUDITOES
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES:
P. A. A. Wilsoi
SECEETAEYs
Hector Allen.
BEANCHES:
687 Qeorge-street Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
Loudon Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Alexand*
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favoui
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England t
S
COTTISH IMPERIAI
COMPANY.
CAPITAL ... ...
FIEE BISKS AT LOWES
INGLIS. NIXON, <
Chief Agents for N.J
7 BEIDGE STEEET CH
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
o T I
CEIPPS’ CATEEING C
Having taken those COMMODIOI
door from Hunter-street, in Elizal
PAETIES CAN BE SI
with a
LAE G E E O
for
HOT DINNEES or MI
BALL PAETIES
"P E. LAI
* Wholesale and Bei
PEODUCE MEEC
Comer
GEOEGE AND GIPPS I
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOEE
48 George-street West (late Par
And
Darlinghnrst Eood, near Wi
Pure Cape Barley, Peed anc
P. E. LAEK
Wholesale and Email Wine and
778 and 780 GEOEGE STEI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
•took of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Hayi
FOETY YE AES’ TESTIMO
OP INDIGESTION
PHiVB’TOasOE THOMSON’S INDI
MANUFACTORY;
BON-ACCOKD
WORKS,
place
SYDNEY,
new south wales.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas. «■» . Tal f ow^ g(^ j and wood for the furnace ;
EailWayS Pref6renCe
to Coal Gas. FQE FULL paETICULAES APPLY AT THE MANUEACTOET.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TEESSES
GUAEANTEED.
WHISKEKS AND MOUSTACHES
GUAEANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUAEANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Eetail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BEOS.,
PITT STEEET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H. S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ pyramid HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.”—
Vide Lancet.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Temporary Premises.
SYDNEY:
No. 11 BLOOMFIELD STREET,
SURRY HILLS.
T
H 0 S. J.
ENGINEERS.
bown & CO.,
BEASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES. AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHURBT-STEEET, SYDNEY.
M
ELBOUENE CUP CONSU
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT
First Horae
Second Horse ... »■
Third Horse •••
Other Starters (divided) ...
Non Starters (divided)
6 Prizes of £lOO each
6 Prizes of £5O each...
£llO Prizes of £lO each ...
This is my fifth Consultation sin
is the best ever brought before the
tralian Colonies. .
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 11C
brings the winning number of ticki
If cheques are forwarded excba
Wherever possible P.O. Order shor
e+oTn-no onnlnand for renlv and resu


Prospectus
p B
OS P E
of the
CHANGE SLAUGHT
and
NEW SOUTH WALES FROZEI
COMPANY. LIMIT
Capital; £50,000, in 10,000 shares of
to increase to £lOO,
JEI per share upon application, £1 ]
ment, Ist Call of £1 three mont
and balance by calls not to exec
at intervals of not less than
quired.
Provisional Direct
A. T. Kerr, Esq., M.L.A., Wei
James Dalton, Esq., J.P. (Da
and Sydney.)
Edward! Heaton, Esq. (Wrigh
Limited.)
Hon. John Smith, M.L.C., Gar
John A. Gardiner, Esq., J.P., G
T. L. Richardson, Esq., J.P., E
James Richmond, Esq., J.P., H
H. C. White, Esq , J.P., Glenal
J, B. Bundle, Esq., J.P., Pomei
James Rutherford, Esq., J.P., ]
■Gteorge Lee, Esq., J.P., Leehol:
F. A. Wright, Esq. (Wright,
Limited.)
F. H. Moore, Esq. (Dalgety, B 1
Walter R. Hall, Esq , J.P. (Col
Thomas. Dalton, Esq., J.P. (Da
T, F. Waller, Esq. (represent
brough and Co )
William. Alison, Esq., jun., J.I
AUSTRALIAN JOINT ST(
Brokers:
•CLEMENTS and MCCARTHY, Bat
BURKE, COULSON, and L
Orange and Sydney
C. J. BUOKLAND, Exchange, Sydi
The departure of the Cuzco, wit
frozen meat from the works of the (
■Company, having conclusively demo
working of that establishment, th
it is now desirable to extend their c
that view invite the co-operation
chants, and all persona interested i
port of our surplus stock —thereby
pany to make this a truly nation
which must in a short time assume
To the public, not conversant wit
this Company, it may be explainer
sists of killing, freezing, and ehii
them on owners’ account. By adop
opening will present itself to squatt
seasons, to send home their own she
derive fall benefit therefrom, as i
shipments. It opens a vast field i
merchant, who can thus purchase
send to England, an article on wh;
handsome profit, as is now the ca
tallow, &c.
For this purpose, it is proposed tc
of the present Company to £SO,(X
10,000 shares at £5 each, with pov
£lOO,OOO. The property of the pr
■offered to the Re-formed Companj
viz., £25,000.
It comprises about 2100 acres of i
land, abundantly watered and subd
paddocks by substantial fencing, for
of stock brought to the works for si
The buildings are designed upoi
and consist of slaughtering pens, <
freezing-chambers, engine-room,
dining-room for workmen, hide, skii
in which the digesters are worked.
The machinery consists of on(
Freezing Machine, three Pumping
necticns, ons 8 h.p. Vertical Engim
two Steam Digestors, with all oth<
■complete mechanical working of thi
The works are connected by a I
Western Line of Railway.
In addition, there are extensive p
200 pigs, sheep-yards, stock-yards,
bone-dust.
The additional capital is require
purposes of: —
Ist.—To erect more extensi
machinery, capable of dealing vc
50,000 cattle annually, and, as tl
still further increase the plant.
2nd. —To charter vessels so as to sc
by guaranteeing large quantitie
specified periods. The rate noc
but overtures have been receive
lsd per lb,, provided sufficient q
tain steamers would be oontrae
■3rd. —To provide cold storage in £
tion of the frozen meat,by the pu
fitted with refrigerating machin
able the Company at all times to
in Sydney; and, when a vessel r
hulk could be towed alongsidi
then taken back to the wharf at
receive further, consignments
works.
4th—To furnish sufficient space
where meat could be kept chil
Prospectus
■without stock, would be worth, at (
£90,000.
The Promoters beg to draw spe
fact that this country is only suita
poses. It is beyond the range of agr
has a long tenure, low rental (as cai
to the Schedule), and is eurroun
stocked stations, and that so large
purchase money being taken by t
shares is an assurance of their faitl
It is the intention of the Pron
Company before the public in Viet
Wales as well as S. Australia.
The Company shall be considered
shares are applied for.
The usual preliminary expenses w
Company, if formed, but should ■
formed, the deposit on application
full.
When the shares are allotted, a n
holders will be held in Adelaide
settling the Memorandum and Art
and appointing Directors. At this
holder will be entitled to one yob
may hold, and all questions shall
maiority of votes.
Applications for shares and depo
by the English, Scottish, and Aus
Bane, at Adelaide, Melbourne, and
Sole Agents for New South Wales-
GEIFPITHS and 1
FIRST SCHEDU
LEASES in SOUTH AUI
6150 sq
Leases in New South
Wales 682 sq
Total 6832 sq
SECOND SCHEDI
“Extracts from Reports in po
moters.”
“The country in New South VS
lokes for holding water—namely, Te
the last-mentioned lake is four mi
water from March, 1877, to Decemt
also numerous creeks running do
Ranges, and a number of swamp
creeks run, which are covered witt
These blocks consist of the very
grazing country, very well grassec
and different sorts of herbage. Thi
the best in the district. There is i
fencing, and round the Pineroo Lak
and box timber; there is also a sti
stockyard on Pineroo Lake.
“ All the South Australian counti
country; the feed is extremely
various grasses—salt and cotton
parakeylia, nardoo, and other her
well in the South Australian count
struck at 53 feet. There are men a
large tank, which, when completed,
20,000 to 25,000 cubic yards, and w
deep; there are also two small tank
“ To describe this property acci
better to divide it into two parts
Cooper’s Creek, the other to the sot
“Taking the south first, that p
Block 2562 and running up to Blocl
extent 4906 miles, is sandhill con:
permanent water, but possessing (
storing water in wet seasons, inasm
ern portion there is Callabonda Cr<
converted into one great reservoir
length, the fall to Lake Freme b
besides, there are some good olaypi
utilised as tanks. Water might be
there being but slight obstacles ne
whether the result would be fresh
impossible at present to say. Th
Blacks up to 2649 consists chiofl;
cotton bush, being very luxuriant b
sandhills. The sandhills themselvi
wiregrass and sometimes with n
Block 2636 north to Cooper’s Creek
of sandhills and flats. The sandh:
Business Announce
S
LIiMAL.J
HORTER, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUAEIE STEEET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary 1
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOE, has con
practice of his profession, at
E.
PITT-STEEET, opposite t
News Office.
AND F. W.
deauqhtsm:
AND
Enobavbbs ON
LAND, ASSUEANOE, AND GE
All matters carried out promptly.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STBE
H.
A. A B
BOOKSELLER AND I
KING STEEET,
(FIVE dooss FROM PITT
Every description of Plain and Fa
lowest possible pri<
mr A TEIAL SOLI
AGENT for Melbourne AGE
I HAVE this day commence
Stock and Share Broker, and
undertake any commissions either
chase of shares that may be entrust
J
Eeferences :
Hon. S. D. Gordon, IV
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C
Hon. L. W. Levy, M.
Eiohard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-str<
No. 12 HUNTEE ST'
M
R. E L L E
(Successor to PAEEOT
Just Eeoeived by the Mail, the
NEW COMET SHOE,
THE EOYAL COUET SH<
MOEOCCO BUTTON SHO
FUE-LINED WAEM SLIPP
Choice Assortment of New Fancj
KERCHIEFS, and CHEVEEE
New Spring-top Fur-Linec
Early Inspection Ini
JJ A V I D M
14, Hunter-street, Sy
SADDLEE AND HAENBI
By special appointn
To his Eoyal Highness the Duke
Excellency the Eight Hon. tl
His Excellency Sir Hercules B
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.Q.
Best Coursing Material of Newes
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentler
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,
£IHEAPEST AND EES':
AT
MASK ISAACS' CORPORA 1 ]
HAY STEEET, HAYW
TEA, Is per lb
Prospectus
will be declared formed, and a me
Sydney for the purpose of electing
Applications for Shares will t
Brokers to the Company; and, for
arrangements have been made w
Joint Stock Bank for the vari
Agencies of the Bank throughout
receive applications for Shares, a:
money to the Company’s account a
institution at Orange.
PE O S P E
of the
COOPEE DOWNS PASTOEi
LIMITED,
To be Eegistered under the Com;
Capital—£2so,ooo. in 25,000 Sht
With power to incr
10s. per share payable on applioat
allotment; the balance (as re
exceeding 10s. each, at intervi
three mouths.
Promoters:
Hon. JOHN CROZIEE, M.L.C.,
Adelaide
Hon. E. C. BAKER, M.L.C., Dir
Investment and Land Mortgage
J. L. STIRLING, Esq., M.P., Di
Mines
W. A. HORN, Esq., J.P., Mundi Mt
Hon. E. D. ROSS, M.P., Director oi
ment and Land Mortgage Com;
Hon. J. B. SPENCE, M.L.C., E
T Steamship Co.
DAVID MURRAY, Esq., M.P. (j
Murray)
JOHN WHYTE, Esq., J.P. (Lat
and Co.)
Solicitors:
Messrs. BAKER and B.
Bankers:
ENGLISH, SCOTTISH, and .
CHARTERED BANK,
Brokers and Secretaries (
HORN and WAEBURTON. North
SMITH, DOSWELL, and CO., Su
This Company is proposed to hi
lowing purposes:—
Ist. Acquiring and paying for f
4,372,480 acres, of Pastoral
leases from the Government
and New South Wales, part
set forth in the First Sched
with about 2000 head of C
working Horses, Plant, St
on the country to be pun
W. Crozier and Co., as here
2nd. Acquiring such other P
New South Wales, Queens
lia, and Western Australis
may by special resolutw
desirable.
3rd, Developing, improving,
country to be acquired by t
4th. Borrowing money on debe
of properties acquired by
carrying ou generally the bi
sth. Such other purposes as ms
Memorandum of Associatic
The situation of the 6832 squars
shown on the map accompanyii
(coloured pink).
The Promoters have acquired tt
the 6832 square miles of country, c
before referred to, from the presen
Wooldridge and Messrs. W. Crozi
the same to the public for the pric
as follows :—£30,000 in cash, and 1
in 4500 fully paid-up shares.
The agreements giving such righ
Promoters are both dated the sth i
and are both made between the Pr
part, and in the one instance An
dridge of the second part, and in
John Crozier (as attorney for Willii
Crozier, and Henry Crozier, carryin
Crozier and Co., of the second pari
The Promoters have not persoi
country, but have seen the repoi
second Schedule, which they bel:
now offer the opportunity to fan
sharing in the profits to be derive'
suits when supported by capital
large scale under practical managi
satisfied that far better returns w
investment in a large pastoral as
now proposed rather than in attem
on small blocks of pastoral lands
west, or north-east of Port August
It is no doubt necessary to spend
to properly develop country in tl
Promoters believe that if done o:
scale there is every prospect of a
and they therefore ask the public
vast undertaking. They are justii
the fact that money can now be o
from the Bank at 6 per cent, anc
have been made by men of no


T
HE INDIAN TEA BOOMS,
PURE FRAGRANT INDIAN TEA,
Fresh from the Gardens, grown under European super,
vision, and sold in Original Packages, IOIh and upwards.
Samples, Press Notices, Analyses, and Price Lists on
Application.
Special Rates for Large Orders.
A delicious Tea in the cup. No Chinese admixtures.
Goes twice as far as the best Chinese teas.
We challenge comparison with our INDIAN TEAS 1
for Leaf, Strength, Flavour, and Analyses, against all
or any of the China teas imported this season.
INGL I S, NIX ON, & C 0.,
INDIAN PRODUCE MERCHANTS,-
INSURANCE AND GENERAL AGENTS,
7 Bridge-street Chambers.
E. ST AN I CH , the EMINENT AUBIST,'
announces that POOR PATIENTS with EAR
DISEASES will receive the Doctor’s valuable services
GRATUITOUSLY, on production of a certificate, that
they are not in a position to pay, under the seal of their
respective Municipal Councils.
The SEALS of the various Corporations of Victoria,
for the valuable services gratuitously rendered by,
Dr. Stanich to sufferers, ore on view at the CONSULT
ING BOOMS, 50 WYNYAED SQUARE SYDNEY,
IRON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS,
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
608 George-street.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALS
to the TRADE and WHOLE,
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN'S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Bale Ale.
-yjy H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
G.
HR
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OP FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
ERARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD,
SOUFLETO,
BEEDEN and CO.,
TEOST
AUCHER,
PALING and CO.,
And other First-class Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO„
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PE RE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
w. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYAED STREET
SYDNEY.
K
lAN
a|m y jev/ei_lew/\rc>r p/^t
> NjADE «*
pL/\irJ
rALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWMUhBBY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime,
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
T
AKE NO MORE PILLS
but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHEP
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
Do you Complain of Indigestion I
Take a few doses of Randereon’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do yon Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do yon constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
if so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIUILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time P Ton
can safely give chem one of these Lozenges,
for the email members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
Remember this, and always keep a box of hi*
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
B T
ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords snoh instan*
relief}, that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and peor, have received vast bene-
its from its use, and scarcely any house can bow be
found without it and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casnalitieß attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OP THE AGE
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained P
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pur e green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants fro>» which it is made,
and totally free frsm any and all c aterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON'S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented-—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and la 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors— .
EDWARD ROW A COMPANY.
A RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIPICA-
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation,
This is not vain expatiation ;
For 'tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication
In callous state or suppuration,
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation.
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration—
Just use your powers of observation
View the surprising renovation
Made by tbis virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination.
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation
Then —friends of suffering creation —
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation,
Called “Farmer’s Friend,”—ugh, botheration!
It’s nothing like ROW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station.
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W 0 R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
B
UEKE, COULSON, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBROKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMM i;S SION AGENTS,
. 112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
And ORANGE.
tNTRAL
ts
PLAJ
Rn
UU
LfcSS^s?
mi
gßMaßoassgßßa&i
:c
v v
>'
ALARMING SALE OE BOOTS AND SHOES
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
610 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you ate about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS’ lOa 6d double texture twilled
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Pose’s Paragon
332 Si 600 Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five cases of the above
GEORGE STREET. opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’ READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
332 & 500 TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
GEORGE STREET. shrunk and well cut. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
ATT. GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD JOB NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
JjIASTEEN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDEESON
strongly recommend their now famous
23. TEA,
whiob will be fonnd equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 OEOEGE STEEET,
HAYMARKET.
HNM U E P
(Lath J. Murphy & Son)
IMPORTER OF
H Y,
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, 40.
Varnishes
Paperhangers' Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., 4c.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
jyj-AKE you ® t PURCHASES
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS,
ATTRACTIVE PRICES.
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving full information respecting economi-
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PURCHASERS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
‘CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
LATE
W. B. CAMPBELL,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 * 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Royal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clock for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems. „ „
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Henry Kendall writes with his left hand.
A young lady of Murrumburrah is, we hear,
the fortunate possessor of one of the finest voices in the
colony.
Mr. Tebbutt, of Windsor, has been nominated
corresponding member of the Ethnographical Institute
of Paris.
During the week one Sydney newspaper man
has got married, and two others have each given a
hostage to fortune.
One of the oldest residents of Rockhampton,
Fred Gregory, died the other day. He was a sporting
man, and much respected in the district.
Of all the Governors who have been in Austral-
ia, none retired from our shores with greater wealth
than did Sir Henry Barkly. It is said that he amassed,
by land speculation alone, oyer £40,000, during his seven
years’ reign.
Sir Samuel Baker, the distinguished African ex-
plorer and author, accompanied by his wife, is at present
staying for a short time in San Francisco, previous to
a u intended hunting trip in the Rocky Mountains. This
is his first visit to Am jrica.
We are very sorry to notice, from a Brisbane
telegram to the Maryborough Chronicle, that our
genial friend, “ Bobby " Byrne, of Queensland Punch,
has found it necessary to file his schedule. However,
n Resurgam ” is Bobby’s motto.
At the banquet at Gympie, in honour of the
opening of the Maryborough railway, Nash, the eriginal
discoverer of the gold-field, was detected lurking in a
corner of the room, and hauled into prominence. The
banquet was a gay affair. Several speakers orated
standing on the tables, and some were only silenced by
the bapd opening on them.
Hi a*y Ward Beecher’s death
would- give his heirs £20,000 of life in-
suranoe.
Dixon, of Melbourne gas-produc-
ing notoriety, is stated to have carried
on business in Dee-street, Invercargill,
K.Z., at one time as a tinsmith, &c. He
was 'hen best known as “corrugated
John."
The libel-action season continues
to be one of the most productive known
for years. David Gaunson is “ going
for” the Federal Australian, and
Mr. Feldheim takes action against the
Melbourne Bulletin.
A niece of the celebrated song-
stress, Sara Flower, sang at a charitable
concert at Muswellbrook, a few even-
ings ago. The young lady aquitted her-
self most creditably. Her voice, though
not of great power, is of exquisite sweet-
ness, and exhibits artistic culture.
Dr. Tanner, the faster, is dead.
His demise recalls the story of the
Frenchman who wished to demonstrate
that he could train his horse to live on
a straw a day, and lost the perverse
brute by death just as he had come
down to two straws per diem. There’s
a wide margin between the theories of
Tanner and Cornaro.
Mr. Pierre Lorillard, of New York,
who won the English Derby with Iro-
quois, aims at excelling in most things
betakes in hand, besides the manufacture
of tobacco and snuff. It addition to the
fastest steam yacht afloat, Mr. Lorillard
owns a wonderful team of trotters, the
wheelers sixteen and the leaders seven-
teen hands high, which do the mile in
three minutes with a loaded coach be-
hind them.
The oldest inhabitant of Auck-
land, N.Z., now surviving, is a man
named Thomas Nield, 89 years old, and
aresident of that town for 42 years. He
was well acquainted with Dan O’Con-
nell. and tells many amusing stories
about the Liberator, particularly his en-
counter with the celebrated fish woman,
Mrs. Moriarty. The old man has only
stirred beyond the premises where he
fives on two occasions during the past
ten years, and then only to record his
vote at exciting elections.
Mr. Gladstone loves to sit down
to work immediately after breakfast,
and to toil on to within ha)f-an-hour of
dinner-time, when he will take perhaps
a hasty gallop on horseback or a quick
walk. About lor2 in the afternoon he
takes a biscuit and a couple of glasses
of sherry—as he once informed a teetotal
deputation, to its dismay, “ he found it
gave him renewed strength.” Next to
Homer, Dante is Mr. Gladstone’s
favourite author. He is fond of Scott;
and Macaulay, he admits, cured him of
his extreme Church and State views.
At the grand banquet recently
given to the representatives of Litera-
ture by the Lord Mayor of London, the
list of illustrious guests included the
name of Mr. Richard Anthony Proctor,
who this time last year set Sydney in a
cometary blaze. Let us hope that, after
fife’s fitful fever in the colonics, the
large-headed man ate well at the Man-
sion House. The toast of “ Our War
Correspondents,” at the same civic
banquet, was responded to by Mr.
Archibald Forbes, whose advent next
April is eagerly awaited by Manager
bmythe, who is still sojourning in
Sydney in search of something or some-
body to occupy his attention meanwhile,
bat like Goldsmith’s bear, which only
danced to the genteelest of tunes," the
much-travelled can find nothing good
enough.
e wealthiest squatters in the Molong
ari u- most generous supporter of the
v.“* t 0 which he belongs, is a man who commenced
o e „.V^ r ° oa ? to the late Hon. George Lord. M.L.O.
ouch oeople deserve to prosper.
James Warton Cox, son of Dr. Cox, the well-
iw7 I v, B^ e o* C 0 wtl ° was consulted by the surgeon of the
ached Squadron about Clan william’s precious health,
SLk 18 v his de * ree as M.D. at the University of
Edinburgh. Bully for the Cornstalk."
T *- 5' J- Oog) accountant in the Victorian Crown
«in^i«o Part l nent * who has been in the Civil Service
ho, Kon ' and was receiving a salary of £6OO per annum,
monvu- ar / ested *. charged with forgery and embezzle-
• He has a wife and large family.
a Nqrmanby is not the only Irish peer who
of roi; -° , e . as a Colonial Governor for the purpose
cam« J 1 . encnm hered estates. Lord Belmore
bv an; Au ,aha for a similar laudable purpose, and,
suocoof 3^ o®’ 0 ®’ thrift, and the careful raising of cabbages,
a! *nal term his purpose before the
Wylde, husband of “ Speranza,”
tistora n of t hat well-known pair of London poe-
Portefi ’? Bcar and Millie Wylde, for many years sup.
komitai r S i 0 v M expense, in Dublin, a free opthalmic
TtmV a ’• tor , e poor and needy of all denominations,
of Sir w'n™ oculist. Dr. Gray, of Melbourne, was one
s“* William’s pupils.
WoolfP^ ar^es bright is still recruiting his health at
slow t tv/’ 0n Blue Mountains. His recovery is
will „Tj n was anticipated, and it is not likely that he
until o, i e to resume his work at the Theatre Royal
wo or t-l n<lay week. His illness has now extended over
to w,, rae 1 r c°nthB,and for six weeks he has been unable
Us in m* Mr. Bright’s many friends will unite with
r,ipv„. ’ Sln that he may speedily be restored to com-
plete convalescence.
tlle father of the present Governor of
th=> era wa ? hord-Lieutenant of Ireland, the father of
M-M,^ aker °f t’he Victorian Assembly (Sir Charles
the Master of the Rolls, and the father of
p eaeut Attorney-General of the Southern colony
was Attorney-General for Ireland. A cordial feeling
existed between the first Marquis and the first Baronets,
and let ns hope, for their country’s good, the same feel-
ing will exist between their sons.
“ The Chiel,” in Vanity Fair, writes :
“ Whenever the Lord Mayor or any other person or
society of dignity and importance gives a public dinner,
I constantly find Lord Chelmsford returning thanks for
the Army. It would be at least decent for him either
to dine at home on such occasions, or at any rate to
keep silence on such a toast. The very bones that are
bleaching on the hillslof Isandula might rise up against
Lord Chelmsford returning thanks tor them.”
A handsome memorial stone is being erected over
the grave of the late Mrs. Cross (George Eliot) in High-
gate Cemetery. It is in the form of an obelisk, and is
a beautiful specimen of the blue or Aberdeen granite.
The pedestal bears the following inscription in bold
letters:—
“ Of those immortal dead who live again
In minds made better by their presence.’
‘ Here lies the body of ‘ George Eliot,’ Mary Ann Cross.
Bom Nov. 22,1819. Died Dec. 22,1880."
When Joe Parjeon was in New Zealand he was
in the habit of travelling about a great deal. When-
ever he came to a village where there was a newspaper
published, he invariably went in and set a few sticks of
copy. In the next issue of the paper an announcement
would appear that the celebrated Mr. Farjeon, the
author of “ Grif,” had paid the settlement a visit, that
he had made a long or short stay, that he was looking
well, and was collecting materials for some new novel
or something of the sort.
At a meeting of the friends of the late Marcus
Clarke, it was decided to publish a memorial volume of
his writings, to be issued to subscribers at one gniuea
per copy, the proceeds to be devoted to his family. The
committee trust that every lover of literature and ad-
mirer of Australian genius will assist in bringing about
the desired object. Cheques and subscription-lists are
to be returned as soon as possible, and not later than
30th Sept., to Mr. Cosmo Newbery, the hon. treasurer,
104 Collins-st., East Melbourne. Mr. George Arthur
Walstab acts as hon. secretary.
This is how a critic writes of President Garfield:
“ Garfield at home and in the hours of relaxation is
what the women call a ‘ love of a man.’ His natural
demeanour is quiet, his bearing dignified, his intentions
kindly, and his motives honest. I don’t agree with
critics who believe him habitually false to friends and
untrue to duty. On the contrary, if he had acted as he
had wished—if Blaine had not wormed himself into his
heart, soured his milk, turned his liver into a gall
factory and upset him generally—he would be to-day in
public what he is in private—a good, square, honourable
man. But he isn’t, and I fear that ends it."
A few weeks ago, the news of the death of the
celebrated Dr. Gumming revived in West Maitland
the recollection of a strange local incident in connection
with the predictions of that eccentric divine. A member
of the firm of Strachan & Co.—once the leading house
of Maitland, but now defunct—was so convinced of the
truth of Dr. Cumming’s warning as to the approaching
dissolution of the world, that he sold out his interest,
and, with a sum of £BOOO at his command, started for
South Africa to regenerate the niggers. He returned
penniless, and with a shattered constitution, only to
witness the dissolution of —his firm. Another word
about Dr. Gumming. A neglected-looking man called
at the Railway Hotel, Elgin-street, West Maitland, last
week, asking lor work. Traces of “better days "were
observable in his manner. That man was a son of Dr.
Gumming, and had been educated by the late Rev. Mr.
Bonthorn, at his (Cumming’s) father’s school. Gum-
ming spoke with much feeling of his father’s death,
adding that the last years of the eccentric doctor's life
were years of domestic trouble that the world never
knew of.
Standing by an unmarked grave in the cemetery
at Dubbo, recollections of years gone by came crowding
to our memory. Old cronies will remember the early
days of the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, when such
names as G. V. Brooke, the Youngs (Richard, Fred,
and Charleyj, Robt. Heir, Henry Edwards, Geo. Coppin,
J. C. Lambert, G. H. Rogers, Fanny Cathcart, Ellen
Mostyn, Mrs. Vickery, and a host of others, equally
brilliant, graced the posters—and when the legitimate
was not supplemented by “leg” dramas. They will
also remember a well-known theatrical wig-maker—
Bennett—in whose shop used to congregate the ex-
ponents of the dramatic art. Bennett, on giving up
business in Melbourne, made his way, with his favourite
fiddle, to Dubbo, where he established himself in a
small way; and, after life’s fitful fever, he sleeps well
in the cemetery of that town. Poor Bennett left some
money behind him, which a grateful Government care-
fully annexed —but the resting-place of the owner is
unmarked. We wonder who took our old friend’s
favourite fiddle ? Many a “ pro.” owes poor B. for
kindly advice and other help, ** None now so poor as do
him reverence."
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Bishop Quinn, of Brisbane, is dying.
St. Mary’s Cathedral will be opened and conse-
crated in January next.
Dr. Ellis preaches in St Bartholomew’s Church
of England, Pyrmont, on next Sunday evening. A
treat for Pyrmont church goers.
Dr. Talmage has a poor opinion of infidels. He
said lately, “I have more respect for the fangs of a
rattlesnake than for a man who would sting to death
the hope of a whole race and substitute nothing.”
The other day it was advertised that a certain
weU-known preacher would hold forth at a now popular
city fane. At the last moment, however, the old gentle-
man who bosses the church took it into his head that
he would preach himself. And when the old gentle-
man’s nose showed in the pulpit there was a rush—
outside.
Among the passengers to America by the s.s
City of Sydney, was the Rev. Raphael Benjamin, M.A.,
late of Melbourne. Before leaving the southern
capital, Mr Benjamin was the recipient of numerous
testimonials from his co-religionists and members of
the “ Tonic Solfa" Association, a large number of
whom were present to wish him bon voyage. Mr. Benja-
min, who is a London University man and an accom-
plished scholar and musician, carries with him the
good wishes of all with whom he has been brought into
contact in the colonies.
The other day, in London, a sermon was preached
in aid of the funds of the clergy corporation. Before
the collection a printed paper was distributed with ex-
tracts from the cases of the poor clergymen who had
applied for relief. The number of children each of
these poor curates had was marvellous—seven, eight,
nine, in some instances a dozen, and in many of the
cases the wife was either a confirmed invalid or again
near her confinement. One curate on £lOO a year had
ten children, whose ages were under fourteen years.
How is it that these pauper clergymen have such huge
families; and ought a really pious and honourable man,
knowing he has only £lOO a year, to indulge in the
luxury of ten children ? The question is a difficult one
to argue, but it is one which strikes at the root of the
country’s prosperity. Blessed is the curate that hath his
quiver full. One reverend applicant wrote " I have
ten children, a net stipend of £llO a year, for two
parishes seven miles apart. I have to keep a pony, &c.,
for duty, and am greatly in need of help. lam dis-
tressed about education bills. I shall be grateful for a
grant.” Fancy a man in such a position giving ten
hostagesl'o oHune.
The revised edition of the Testament has not
been quite so well received in Melbourne as might
have been imagined, and the enterprising Mr. Robert-
son has not made such a good thing out of this as out
of other little ventures that he has engaged in. Even
the Bishop of Melbourne’s sermon has failed to give it
a friendly fillip. The chances are that most people ex-
pected ta get a little novelty in the way of doctrine, a
new Atonement, or a something equally startling. But
when respectable society finds out that “ adultery l ” is
simply converted into “delicate circumstances;” that
“ trespasses ” assumes the still more objectionable
form of “ debts,” which are to be forgiven as a matter
of course, and that the respectable hell of our ancestors
is lightly passed over as Gehenna, it begins to wonder
what the venerable Sanhedrim of divines has been
about, and whether it might not have been just as well
to leave things as they were. When a man gets a good
hot “ skreed ” of doctrine every Sunday morning, he
knows what to expect; but this sort of lukewarm busi-
ness is discouraging, to say the least of it. They have
only got to do away with buttons, white checkers,
and much of the breast waistcoats and the whole aspect
of modem Christianity will be changed.
THE NEWSLETTER.
The Princes are in Brisbane.
Annual Exhibition, N.S.W. Art Society, opens
3rd October.
Rule, alias Koragh, sentenced to 10 years and 25
lashes, at Adelaide, for rape.
A N.Z. doctor has successfully removed the jaw
bone of a man suffering from cancer.
Cosmo Newberry’s report on Dixon’s gas
scheme, has dropped the shares from 35s to 15s,
The Ferret (s.) was offered at auction, and bought
in. Reserve, £9OOO. Mr. Tayler offered £BBOO
Inverell medicine men will, to-day (Thursday)
do incantations for rain. There are signs of a break in
the weather.
An expert states that an enormous deposit of
parrafln wax exists in the Southern Cross Co.’s ground,
at Gisborne, N.Z.
The petition in favour of the release of Alphonse
Bechet, under sentence for alleged arson, has been
signed by some of the most influential men in the com-
munity. The members of the bar, to a man, agree that
Bechet was convicted on utterly insufficient evidence.
From Mount Britton field, thir-
teen ounces gold wont to Rockhampton.
An allotment opposite Eastern
Market, Bourke-street, Melbourne,
fetched £312 per foot.
Prisoner Smith escaped from
Cobar lock-up in leg-irons. Constable
and tracker in pursuit.
Twenty Chinese merchants im-
ported during 1880 to the value of
£210,000, paying £27,000 freight.
At a meeting of the Royal Society,
M. Ellery presiding, Dixon’s gas inven-
tion was unfavourably animadverted on.
A new graving dock, 500 feet
long, is proposed to be erected at
Dunedin, N.Z., the cost not to exceed
£lOO,OOO.
Alderman J. D. Young is to move
that the City Solicitor be instructed to
take legal proceedings against the con-
tractors for the Town Hall plastering.
On Sunday, James Barbour, one
of a capsized boat party, was drowned
in Sydney Cove, in full view of the
people on board the Wallaby ferry
steamer.
Middle-aged woman, Ellen Ken-
dall, committed for trial, charged with
poisoning a six months baby of her
employers, Mr. and Mrs. Williams, of
Goulbnrn
Booth, Davies, Dunn, and John-
ston, sentenced to six months, and
Wiggins three months, for man-
slaughter.in connection with Keillan’s
death at the Randwick prize-fight.
Spurious teas at Auckland, and
sellers prosecuted. Not convicted,
however, as they had no knowledge of
the adulteration of the goods, which
came from a casual Melbourne agent.
Two tributers struck a good thing
at the Thames Goldfields, N.Z., viz.,
180 tons quartz, which when crushed
yielded 1105 oz. netted gold; value,
£6315, the result of six months’ work.
A N.Z. judge named Ward has
decided that a bill of sale, given three
days before declaration of insolvency
was filed, held good against a body of
creditors. The decision has caused a
wide-spread feeling of insecurity in
commercial circles over the water.
The works at Liverpool (N.S.W.)
Town Hall have been stopped, owing
to a disagreement among the aldermen.
Some think that the proposed front is
not high enough; others are of a con-
trary opinion. A spice of jealousy
seems to be at the bottom of the affair.
The Hon. W. M'Culloch has sold
the young bull, Grand Duke of Oxford,
to Messrs. Manifold, for 1000 guineas.
His grandsire, the Duke of Devonshire,
was purchased by Mr. M'Culloch for
2100 guineas. The animal is the first
pure Oxford bred and sold in Australia.
Small-pox appears to have been
pretty well stamped out at Honolulu.
Were it not for the white race in the
Sandwich Islands the entire population
would have been swept away by variola
and other contagious diseases. Tbe
natives and Chinese conceal all cases of
small-pox they possibly can.
Sir George Grey’s N.Z. Law
Practitioners' Bill, to which the legal
fraternity obiect so strongly, consists
of merely a dozen lines, and provides
for the admission to practice as a
barrister and solicitor, of any person
21 years of age, and of good reputation,
of whose learning any one or more
Supreme Court judges shall be satisfied
by examination in law
The Tasmanian Premier is not prepared to tax
guns. Many youthful lives are consequently sacrificed
annually in “ the tight little island.”
Hon. Alex. Hay, of South Australia, offers
£lOOO for every £4OOO subscribed up to £20,000, to found
a Scotch College in connection with the Caledonian
Society.
Gault, commercial traveller, blown to atoms at
Crown Ridge Hotel, Mudgee, while warming some
dynamite samples in front of the parlour fire. Hotel
utterly wrecked.
According to the N.Z. Herald, the French
are steadily annexing all the Pacific Islands suitable for
coaling or naval stations which lie between New Zealand
and the future Panama Canal.
Auckland is anxious to compete with Newcastle
for the American coal trade. An offer was made to a
Yankee captain to carry a cargo of Auckland coal to
’Frisco in lieu of ballast, but on the captain calling on
the owners, he received a reply that it was imperative
that the ship should go from that port in ballast.
The Townsville Hotel, Townsville, three ad-
jacent shops, and several small cottages, were burnt
down on the morning of the 6th August. The cause of
the fire is unknown. During the progress of the con-
flagration an energetic female was observed to be
damping a building near the burning hotel with water
from a tumbler. She now takes the credit of having
saved the street from destruction.
That Chinese leper again ! With much ease he
changed his location from Vegetable Creek to Lode
Creek, Queensland. He was overtaken by the police at
Deepwater, and driven back to his isolated domicile.
Having, however, expressed a desire to come over the
border, and join a cousin in Stanthorpe, the authorities
allowed him to depart hence, the Queensland police
being informed of his intention. Arrived at Tenterfield
he was forcibly compelled to “ move on.” At Wilson a
Downfall the atmosphere was made particularly warm
for the Mongolian, who passed oyer the territorial line
A VISIT OF CONDOLENCE.
His WORSHIP (with feeling): “ I begin to think, Sir Henry, that your crowd isn’t a bit better than mine. ’


SINGER'S SEWING |1
THE
8
s
INGEE MANUFACTUEI
Have opened a Dept
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DAE
HARBOUR STRE
8
8
S
INGEE’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sem
INGEE’S SEWING
BEST TERMS TO WHOLE
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for address of nea
S
INGEE’S, THE BEST F
Have received 160 First Pi
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for e
8
8
8
INGEE’S, BEST FOE 1
1 SINGER’S MEDIUM MACH
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. w
INGEE’S THE BEST I
See the New No. 4 Mt
8
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition 1
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-
-8
8
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OR TREAD
INGEE’S. The BEST. The
MACHINE—Light to Work,
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST;
‘ LEARN. New Improvements
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all 1
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST A 1
Sew finest muslins and hei
8
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price !
INGEE’S THE BEST and M
Will last a lifetime in coi
8
INGEE’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TH
8
INGEE
' No. 1 DARLING STORES,HarI
N GEE’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Hay marl
have been appointed agents for
machines.
Call md see them —Mouth's
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—i
10 per cent discount for casl
SINGER'S SEWING MA
8
JNGEE’S SEWING MACHI
and CO. only rec jmmend t
REMEMBEE, THEEE IS h
GER MACHINE. See the
Mark on the arm.
S INGEE’S MACHINES.—N
applies to the Genuine Machi
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
S INGEE’S MACHINES. —Be
Cast iron imiiations. Only
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHI!
ments with the Singer C(
8
INGEE’S SEWING MAC!
cent, oliscount for cash, or on T
8
YDNEY.— From TUENEE
GEORGE STREET, opposite
INGEE’S SEWING MACHII
but 160 FIRST PRIZ
8
T
he A U S T I
“HOME"SHUTT
AMERICAN LOCKST
SEWING MACI
ONCE MO]
Thebe is a pretty local superstition that if you drink the w
leaving, you are sure to return to the Eternal City, drawn thith
thus invoked. The
being an institution founded in more recent times (although,,!
commercial career of some 60 years), has no such tradition hanc
past. But the spell, it would seem, exists nevertheless, ho
within its portals are seldom content with a single visit. Ag
irresistible impulse. It is said you must go by moonlight to th
of St. Peter’s ere the enchantress will put forth her magic wand
come when you will—by moonlight or sunsnine, ciouu ui- ia.ir— l
see it in perfection, you should go by gas-light. The sight then i
cases extending down the centre of the mam building for a dista
cases varying from day to day, as each fresh shipment reaches us
both are a source of wonder to all who see them. At the presei
been evinced in the dressing of the cases, in view of the various
any afternoon, after half-past four, the
may be seen in all its glory—a sight wondrous to behold
ONE CASE is devoted to SILKS and SATIN'S of every
STRIPED GLACE SILKS
SATIN DE LYON, Black and Coloured
RADZ DE MORT
FANCY OMBRE . . ,
MERVEILLEUX SILKS, Plain and Striped.
ANOTHER CASE is fitted with EVENING FLOWERS, i
SEVERAL CASES are devoted entirely to an ever-varying dis
PALACE EMPOR
PALACE EMPO
PALACE EMPOE
BLACK AND COLOURED GKOS ukaijn silas
BLACK, WHITE, ANDCOLOURED SATINS
mwBRV. BATE SILKS AND SATINS
SHADED RIBBONS
SET COLLARETTES, from lid
LADIES* TARTAN NECKERCHIEFS, all prices
PETERSHAM. PE
SALE ON THE GE
SATURDAY, AUGI
liOT 1. —About 5 ACRES of LAN.
STOKES’ PADDOCK, about 5
the PETERSHAM EAILWA
divided into
PORTY-TWO (42) ALI
having frontages of 40
CANTERBURY NEW ROAD
THOMAS STREET
ALLAN AVEN
Wj
being LOTS 1 to 33. SECTION
SECTION 2, as per lithograph
LOT 2.—ALLOTMENTS 1 to 18.
having 40 feet frontage, by a de
YULE STREE'
WESTBOURNE BTI
LOT 3.—FOUR ALLOTMENTS, i
frontage to yULE STREET
by depths of 112 feet to 141 fee
6. SECTION 7.
•These Allotments are situated a fe'
STREET, and close to the PARR
LOT 4.—TWO ALLOTMENTS, 1
frontage to
MARGARET STRI
by a depth of 164 feet, being
p
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGUNGS
(a really splendid stock).
EOOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BEUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, &c.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, GEOEGE-ST.
gYDNEY PROVIDENT DISPENSARY.
ALL MEDICINES AND PRESCRIPTIONS
AT HALF THE USUAL CHARGE.
MECHANICAL AND SURGICAL DENTISTRY.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
Pull Set, £6 155.; Single Tooth, 7s.
Extraction, per tooth, Is.; Children, 6d.
PROFESSORS ARNOLD AND MAURICE,
196, Pitt-street—opposite Farmer’s.
EVE
TOBACCONIST
149.
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
MR. THOMAS M‘MAHON is authorised to
COLLECT MONEYS due to The Bulletin for
Advertisements and Subscriptions in the City of Sydney
and Suburbs, and his acknowledgment will tea sufficient
discharge.
Bulletin Office, 17th Aug., 1881.
B
OBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Countet Oedeks Receive Peompt Attentiow.
DE. J. SIMMS, of New York, the Unrivalled
Physiognomist and Popular Speaker, is deliver-
ing a course of illustrated and amusing Lectures on
Practical and Scientiflc Physiognomy, or, the Revela-
tion of Mental and Moral Characteristics by the
Characteristics of the Figure and Face. The course
will continue with different lectures on Physiognomy
on August 18, 19, 23, 24, 25. 26. 30 and 31; each lecture
commences at 8 o’clock, at the Temperance Hall, Pitt-
stree Admission 2s. Is; course ticket, 10s. and ss.
Hundreds of Portraits in oil may be seen each evening.
PHYSIOGNOMICAL CHARTS.—DaiIy during the
Lecture Course Dr. Simms will be in waiting at the
comfortable private ante-room af the Temperance
Hall, in order to supply the public with his large Physi-
ognomical Charts, 240 pp., accurately marked to indi-
cate the Mental and Moral traits of applicants, their
state of health, the occupations for which Nature has
adapted them, and the character of person they should
choose for a life companion. Thousands of men and
women in Great Britain and America are to-day reaping
the benefits of a consultation with Dr. Simms, lo
follow his professional advice, communicated orally,
and by means of his Charts, is to pursue the path of
rtue, happiness, and worldly success.
of demarcation, and found rest for his diseased and
wearied limbs in the locality named.
Mrs. Bardwell, head mistress of Crown-street
Public School, has been re-instated, 1 and Mr. Kooney,
head master, will be transferred to another school.
Mr. Moriarty, the Engineer-in-Chief’of our
Works Department, has returned from his European
tour, much improved in health.
In the case, Bailey, of the Temora Heeald, v.
J. Henniker Heaton, permission was given tohavethe
defendant, who is in England, examined by commission,
he (defendant) to pay the costs thereof, and costs of
application aiso. Bailey sues Heaton for money
alleged to be due for advertisements during defendant s
electoral campaign at the Lachlan. Heaton says he
never authorised their insertion.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Stop the engine! Thanks. “ Lucia de Lam-
mermoor” was produced on Wednesday night at
the Gaiety. Miss Montague, the Lucia; Mr.
Turner, the Edgardo. Result: Nothing but
“ busted ” gloves and scattered flowers. Next
week in detail.
** * *
“No Name’’has seen its last night, and we
nlin.ll not weep. Those who have read the novel
and seen the play (as we have), will at once see
that Mr. Wybert Reeve, however funny he may
be, is no more Captain Wragge than we are Pastor
Allen. Miss Annie Mayor does what is to be done
with a part in which all the 1 ‘ fat ’ ’ is taken out;
and Miss Annie Taylor makes the smallest giantess
we ever remember seeing. Miss Kate Arden s
Mrs. Le Count was a huge joke. We ask that
lady to kindly read Wilkie Collins’s description oi
that subtle dame, in the second book of the novel.
She will then perceive that there is nothing what-
ever of either Lady Macbeth or the Woman in
Bed in it. Mr. Forbes was a great deal too lively
as Noel Yanstone ; but Miss Elise Svdney made a
capital Miss Garth, her only fault being that she
looked too—but, on consideration, we will hold the
adjective over. The play was well mounted—Mr.
Wilson’s scenery being excellent.
** * *
Mr Dewhurst appears at the Queen’s on Satur-
day in “ Hamlet.” Let’s see—who was the last
“ Hamlet ”we saw ? We quite forget.
** * *
Mr Chapman, the elocutionist, had a “ ben.” at
the Protestant Hall, on Friday night. The
Mayor was in the chair. That ought to be enough
for him without any notice from us. But, seri-
ously, this is only a mean way of getting out of it,
as w<3 were not there. But at Mr. Chapman s
next entertainment, though tempests rage and
fires crackle, we shall be on the spot to applaud.
** * *
Hr. Simms made his debut at the Temperance
Hall on Tuesday night before a crowded audience
—those at the back being, however, in a little too
high spirits for the complete comfort of the more
sedate section of the assemblage. The doctor’s
lecture was practically on the nose, and his blow-
ing about that feature was not only instructive,
but exceedingly humorous. Indeed, we do not
remember ever having heard more fun got out of
the whole of the human anatomy than Dr. Simms
extracted from the nasal organ of humanity.
When the lecture was over, a number of people
went up on the platform to be phizionomised, and
on enquiring of their relations we find that the
doctor s diagnoses were, in every case, correct—
albeit, with his usual gallantry he let the ladies
down rather too gently. Dr. Simms lectures
every night this week; and if he has only half
the luck we wish him, he will carry away his gold
in a barrel.
** * *
Let trumpets blare and banners wave ! Walter
Reynolds has arrived!
** * *
Sara Bernhardt, according to private letters,
will arrive at Melbourne in November. We hope
this is true,
** * *
It is said, though wecannot vouch for thetruth of
the rumour, that Messrs. J. C. Williamson, Arthur
Garner, and H. R. Harwood are shortly to be
associated in the management of a big Melbourne
theatre, in such a combination there would be
plenty of brains and experience, and plenty of
“go.” The only danger to be apprehended is
that there might be a little too much vinegar and
hardly enough oil, between the talented trio.
** * *
Mr. Carden arrived in Sydney by the Arawata,
and left by the Leura We hear that there is
some legal trouble brewing between him and Dick
Thatcher. Subject—alleged breach of agreement
by James.
** * *
The Sydney Hippodrome is a considerable place,
as it is opened for the accommodation of the
world. The appearance of the universe is expected
when the big go-as-you-please tournament com-
mences, and while it continues. .£lOO will adorn
the victor’s crown, or such other part of his ana-
tomy as he may elect to have embellished. How-
ever, turn to the ad., ye peds, and see what s
in it.
** * *
Negotiations are on foot to induce the Montague-
Turner opera troupe to visit Newcastle, Maitland,
and Tam worth.
** * *
Miss Lillian Reid, otherwise Mrs. Allen, who
was arrested at Hamilton (Vic.), some time ago,
with Miss Ella Carrington, of the Stray Leaves
company, on a charge of infanticide, is suing the
arresting constable for .£249 damages for malicious
arrest. The case will be heard on the 27th.


JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINE
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cask, or 2s 6d per week.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT.
rjIHE LIGHT EUNNING STANDARD.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON'S, HAYMARKET.
gINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
The wondeeful weetheim
SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
very fine double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for oil
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may bo had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OP
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OP CHARGE. Price lists and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY. George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL ; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. ” ‘ ' ‘ ’
live, we wi
MACHINE
NTEREST.
No matter in wnat part or tne coiony you
11 supply you with a WERTHEIM
upon TIME PAYMENT. WITHOUT
G
AIE T Y
THEATRE
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and J. Solomonon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
MONTAQUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY.
The charming and accomplished Prima Donna,
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE,
and
The eminent Primo Tenore,
MR. CHARLES TURNER.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, AUGUST 18,
Donizetti's Grand Opera,
LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR.
Conductor
•Monsieur LEON CARON.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
o
E R
OUSE.
BY SPECIAL REQUEST,
THE CRUSHED TRAGEDIAN
WILL
EVENING,
TUB UMUSUJSU
BE REPRODUCED THIS (THURSDAY)
VENING, FOR THIS NIGHT ONLY.
TOMORROW (Friday) NIGHT,
BENEFIT of Mr WYBERT REEVE.
GEORGE GBITH AND UNCLE'S WILL.
Prices of Admission : ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
Bonnets not allowed in the Dress Circle.
HEATRE ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Q. L. Goodman.
INSTANTANEOUS SUCCESS OF
THE NEW COMIC OPERA,
OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
OLIVETTE.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at ten minutes to 8
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may be pur-
chased during the day at H. Soltan’s, tobacconist, 116
King-street.
Ii
ARGEST
ESTABLISHMENT
KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
OP
THE
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST.
Pure Ceylon Tea")
Pure Java Tea >
Pure Indian Tea )
2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d,' 5s
per lb.
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d. Is 4d. Is 6d, Is 9d.
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any .of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully a d
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3id per lb.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
Affiliated to Trim Coll., London.
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
De. RODWAY, R M.A P , A f’,R.S L. (Lon.)
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY are conducted by Dr.
ROD WAY, and the number of students in each class is
strictly limited to TEN, so that he may give to each
gentleman that individual attention whieh will alone
secure success. Dr. Rod way's system is easy and effi-
cient, and be guarantees to pass every candidate be
sends to the University—Law, Civil Service, and all
Public Examinations.
FEES: Per term, in advance, for each class ... £4 4e.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor will be
awarded upon the conclusion of eaoh term.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, 191 William-street, Sydney.
DR. RODWAY PRINCIPAL.
A bonnet is no longer “ made.” It is “ com-
posed.”
When a man thinks he hears the drum and fife
in the heavenly choir, he is either drunk or crazy.
There is nothing more nourishing and warming
in cold weather than a cup of really good cocoa, but the
difficulty has been to obtain it pure. This may be
secured at a cost of one halfpenny for a large breakfast
cup by using Cadbury’s Cocoa Essence, which goes
three times as far as the adulterated and starchy com-
pounds ordinarily sold, the smallest packet making 14
breakfast cups of strong cocoa.— LAdvt.1
In future, members of the auxiliary and reserve
forces (naval and military) will be eligible for the
Victorian Cross.
Hot drinks are most injurious to the teeth.
Those who wish to preserve their “ivories” should
clean them regularly before going to bed.
One of the finest hotels inland is Eaton’s, at
Musolebrook, now In the hands of Mr. Barclay. The
hotel was built to suit the requirements of the old
days, when Musolebrook was the great depot of the
North, and it is to-day more than equal to the demands
upon its space. The host and hostess are active and
obliging, and are Just the people to do a big business in
a metropolitan house.
There is a pleasure, according to Byron, in the
pathless woods ; and the same authority assures us that
there is society where none intrudes—by the deep sea,
and music in its roar. The pleasure of the pathless
woods is, however, qualified when one breaks a leg or
so over a root; and the music of the deep sea’s roar
sounds a trifle discordant when the surf cracks a man’s
•ribs upon a rock. We have heard of a man who would
never cross a street for fear of being run over, or eat
anything lest he should be choked. He didn’t live
very long, though. It's no use trying to dodge fate.
We have a cheerful list before us of lucky individuals,
who made money by the oddest accidents. There is C.
Appleby, a bnshman, who injured his hand with a jack.
It couldn’t have been at Eucre or All-Pours. A good
hand is seldom injured by a Jack. Anyhow, it turns out
that Appleby won £1 with his hand, such as it was.
Then there was J. Barrett, a miner, who received a
contusion of the back by the bursting of a hose.
Whose hose, is not stated, probably from motives of
delicacy; but he got £7 10s. out of the affair. But
these were humourous incidents as compared with the
fortunes of Miss A. L. Cuthbertson, spinster, who was
rewarded with £4 10s., for achieving a black eye and
bruised cheek while dancing At this rate, it would
pay spinsters to go periodically to Cion but we
mustn’t. Rogers, a labourer, won £2 by being pushed
off a train by a Maori—odd spelling this: Mary was
quite right to push Rogers off her train. He receives
injuries to his wrist and tongue, probably due to
attempts to hold the latter under the aggravating cir-
. oumstances. A new-fangled pipe was worth £3 15s. to
Barrett, a miner, who was thrown from a stage by force
•f water from a pipe. These hydraulic smokes never
■were favourites of ours. The New Zealand Accident
Insurance Company is the humorous body which
rewards people for amusing themselves in this way Mr.
Smith is the local manager, and keeps—at No. 81 Pitt-
street—piles of brand new red-hot sovereigns, ready to
dispense to all broken-legged, twisted fingered,
sprained-necked, cripples, who choose to apply. The
only preliminary is that they should have paid their
premiums first, and broken themselves after.
** I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
an coloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
«tiole of diet.— Kael Theodore Staioer, analytical
. chemist.Ad vt.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Adv.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The “reversed” New Testament is what a
woman calls it.
A lady has been chosen as churchwarden in the
parish ofJCauon Trevor, at Beeford, England.AeSiiß.«u»«l
Mrs. Langtry has re-appeared in London society,
and wore at a Ball given by Millais a dress of grey
gauze trimmed with gold, cut to the waist more or less.
A fashionable lady, well known in certain circles,
while travelling on the line from Queanbeyan to Cooma,
Ixad her teeth jerked out, and had to offer the driver of
the coach substantial inducement to look for them.
Women who paint have just discovered what
jjas long been known to the ladies of the stage, that the
face can be made to look round by putting the rouge in
the centre of the cheeks, and elongated by putting it
on a line near the mouth.
“ Why will ladies persist in wearing gold dust
4n their hair at dances?” asks a writer in London
Truth. “It is not pretty to look at, and it is most
unpleasant for their partners, as it flies into their eyes
and pretty '.veil blinds them; in fact, on some it has
the same effect as a strong pinch of snuff. I was at a
ball a few evenings back, and noticed a good-looking
girl acting the part of a wallflower. ‘ Why don’t you
ask her to dance ? ’ I said to an enthusiastic waltzer.
• Oh,’ replied he, * she’s too dusty I ’ ’’
This is from Sardou’s comedy “ Divor<,ona
All husbands are comprised in one unique type—the
husband ! And all the lovers in another type—the lover I
The husband is all faults, the lover all virtues—that is
agreed. In reality, the husband has but one fault—
that he is a husband—and the lover but one merit —
that he is a lover. This is so true that the same man
may be at one time the very objectionable husband of
his own wife, and the very agreeable lover of another
afr Vs spouse. The difference, then, is not in the
but in the function he performs.
Mr. J. Morris's Establishment, King-
street.
Among the many tobacco and cigar divans of an
improved style recently established in Sydney,
may be mentioned that of Mr. J. Morris (late of
San Francisco), situated in King-street, and here-
with illustrated. The premises have been altered
and renovated, and are now admirably adapted to
the business ; the windows admitting of a large
and attractive display. In this latter respect, the
establishment stands out prominently ; and if in
style and appearance it is “ a cut above the ordi-
nary,” so in the excellence of the tobaccos, cigars,
,&c- 1 it occupies a first place among similar busi-
nesses in the city. The fancy goods, in the shape
of meerschaums, &c , are of the newest patterns,
and naturally attract much attention, the design
and artistic finish generally being excellent. The
house may be taken as the depot for the latest
novelties from Paris, London, Vienna, and New
York —a wholesale as well as a large retail busi-
ness being done.
Farm Produce.
Bulletin Office, 17th August.
On the wharves to-day, prime green lucerne is
selling at JB3 5s to .£3 10s per ton ; ditto, old hay,
£2 15s to .£3 ; medium samples £2 10s per ton.
A fair demand exists for prime samples of hay,
but other qualities are dull of sale. Maize is
firmer on account of dry weather, and is selling at
3s sdto 3s 6d. Oats, seed and feed, 3s per bushel.
Circular Head potatoes, £4 to £4 10s; New Zea-
land ditto at £3 to ,£3 10s per ton. Victorian
onions, .£l3; ditto chaff, £4 6s to £5 per ton, bags
included. Butter in keg, Is to Is 9d; eggs, lOd
per dozen ; bacon, 3d to 6d ; cheese, 4d to 8d; ham,
fid to 8d ; honey, 3d to 4d ; lard, 4d; beeswax, 9d
to lOd; millet brooms, 10s per dozen ; fowls, 3s fid
to 4s ; ducks, 4s fid to fis ; geese, 7s to 8s ; cock
■turkeys, 9s to 15s ; hen ditto, 7s.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
One of the two who were in the swim— Le
Pere Goriot" —has gone. It is too sorrowful a
loss to notice in this brief epitone of folly and gossip.
Poor Marcus.
She was a pretty, plump woman, with undeni-
able pasterns, and she assured a sympathetic spiritist
circle that the spirit of Oliver Cromwell was
present. “I feel it,” she cried, “I am certain. I
felt his hand touch my ankles.” It was too much for
one believer present. He had been trusting in the ex-
treme up to this, but there came a limit. “ Had you
said Charles II..” he exclaimed, “ I could have believed
it—but not the Protector. There were one or two
stories about him, certainly, but he wouldn’t have
descended to tickling.” And he left the circle, to be
solemnly cursed as a backslider, while the fair possessor
of the sensitive ankles smiled sweetly on the neophyte
next to her, who had stooped to pick up his hand-
kerchief.
If “ Society Mortimer ” (as the gentle Franklyn
is now called here) should ask you for my address,
please give it. He has quite enough on his hands just
now, with David Gaunson and his libel action. Besides,
Jem Mace is at present on a visit with me, and has a
habit of smoking his pipe in the verandah, so as to be
ready to see visitors.
Lord Charles Scott has sent a letter of thanks
for my suggestion that he should be allowed to marry
whom he pleased without interference. He sent
nothing else.
A well-known pressman, on an equally well-
known paper, has recently had a difference with the
proprietors, and been requested to retire from his
position, for—well, you won’t easily guess the reason-
being too attentive to his wife—devoting too much at-
tention to the sharer of hie joys I This is about the
feeblest cause for a row I ever heard of. It’s natural
enough that a man should get into a scrape for being
too attentive to somebody else’s wife, or even a distant
relative. But his own wife! Only a newspaper-pro-
prietor could hit upon such a mean idea. And, by the
way, the too-attentive one—who, for many years, was
regarded as a confirmed old bachelor—has only recently
got married.
A money-lender in this city, supposed to be
lineally descended from “the woman taken in adul-
tery," is breathing blood and fire against the revisers
of the Testament for meddling with his fair ancestress'
memory—“raking the whole story up again,” as he
calls it. “ Besides,” he says, “ people have been led to
think that she went straight after that little show-up,
but who knows now what she mightn’t have gone and
done." It reminds me of another Hebrew, who had a
stately grandmother of Hispanio-Jewish extraction,
and who, whenever the Crucifixion was alluded to, used
to say, “ At the time those disgraceful occurrences took
place in Jerusalem, my connections were in Spain.”
God help the Spaniards ! No wonder they started an
Inquisition.
“ Our honey-moon lasted for six months,” she
said to an enquiring friend, “and John was just the
same all the while." “ Oh,” replied the other, “ ours
lasted for a year, and Jim, also, was just the same all
the while—loving and tipsy, only more tipsy than
loving.”
And Newbery “ spat in it,” in spite of all
warnings to the contrary; the daring Cosmo
rt in it, and was not blown up, though the Dixon
Company was. I don’t know what the shares
started at, but they are down to £1 —or something
less. It must be very annoying to the spirits,
indeed, for it seems that a large corps of these celestial
gentlemen were in readiness to descend on earth for
the purpose of pounding the fifty-thousand advertised
ingredients in seventy-thousand mortars —said spirits
warranted not to expectorate.
There is a still newer fashion than ever in
ladies* dresses, called the “ Battenberg.” I don’t know
how the fair wearers get into or out of the garment in
question, but it has no buttons in front or behind, and,
apparently, no hooks or eyes, while on the shoulders
are imitation epaulettes of gold fringe, the hat to match
having a gold band round it. Though rather tight-
looking, it is the easiest dress in the world for a woman
to make mild love in.
It’s deuced dangerous to follow a good example
sometimes. A man at Keilor, last week, thinking that
as Mrs. Smith, of Emerald Hill, could get a troublesome
and destructive husband out of the way in a Lunatic
Asylum, he might do the same with a recalcitrant wife.
But he was mistaken; for, in addition to being recalci-
trant, the wife was good-looking, and though the doctors
visited her, they were more fascinated than frightened,
and refused to certify. The poor devil’s only hope now
is that one of the medicos may take her off his hands.
The boasted dinner-table of Lord Charles Beres-
ford, with its miniature lake of real water in the centre,
is no novelty after all. There was a fellow in India hod
a far better idea; for he had trained frogs on the little
rocklets in the middle of the lake, who used to jump
round with tiny salt-cellars strapped to their backs.
The affair made a considerable sensation for some time,
but it was brought to a conclusion by a Native Prince,
the descendant of the celebrated Bobachy Bahadur,
who, fancying that the frogs were a fashionable novelty
in the edible line, courteously caught and swallowed
one of the smallest,— having previously, with that con-
sideration which always distinguishes high birth,
swallowed some lettuce for the frog to live upon.
Folingsby says that he doesn’t want the rush to
his studio to be too rapid and extensive. He is quite
prepared to act as he did in the case of Lola Montez,
and paint any number of.pretty women in any number
of attitudes. But they must give him time and not
come in troops. One beautiful object is enough—three
or four together, most likely trying to " out-attitude"
each other, is too much even for his trained nerves.
The Rev. Charles Strong declines to stop. It is
not that his congregation don’t appreciate him, but
that he can’t get on with his “ brother workers in the
vineyard.” They want all the grapes to grow their
own way, and he won’t stand it. Besides, the Presby-
tery whiskey is not what it used to be, all the strength
apparently having gone into the doctrine.
The Rev. T. M'Donald is a strong-minded man,
not to say eccentric. Not only does he insist on hav-
ing the personal existence of the Devil fully recog-
nised, but he insists on everyone “ knowing him” to be
the terribly real being he is. The hangman is a
terribly real and decidedly uncomfortable person, but
there is surely no necessity for knowing that gentleman
personally.
“ Music hath charms,” etc. May have had
them in the old days, but it would seem to have lost its
power since. I don’t know how the singing birds got
on in the Ark without making Noah’s life a burden to
him, and Shem pitch into Japhet, after preliminarily
pitching into Ham. Bat musicians never get an with
one another now-a-days. The gentle Moule, the meek-
est of the meek, the kid-gloviest, awfully nicest of
teachers, becomes a raving, rampant, raging lion when
the name of Kowalski is breathed in his hearing, and
the sight of him acts like a false chordlupon the tender
nature of the susceptible. “Ahl Mo ii c her," says the
Frenchman, “ what have I done to that jeune Alfrede
that he is so severe—so heart of hard ? It is curious—
let us drink champagne.” But Alfrede remains ever
savage, and if he can do anything to spoil the Exhibition
concerts ho will probably do it. _ It’s a pity he cannot
carry bis little candle about quietly without trying to
blow at > luminary above his altitude. _ Moreover,
Kowalski's considerate behaviour to the widow of poor
Marcus Clarke, with regard to last Saturday’s concert,
tells largely in his favour. The public are not likely to
forget it.
MR. J. MORRIS’S ESTABLISHMENT, KING STREET.


Miscellaneous
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUBNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
40., 4c., 4c.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
I
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Syduev. All hinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, 4c.
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS SUNDRIFS.
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address-
Yon cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings. *
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals'of every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTER!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
*
KING
STREET
SYDNE’
TAILOR Ayo
m
f°fr<4S
POST OFFICE.
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
TO ORDER.'
FITGUARANTEED!
HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
A.
J. H U F T O
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
636 Qeorge-street,
Foar doors from Liverpool-street.
N’
WATCHES and JEWELLERY Repaired on Premises.
All Work Guaranteed.
The original and genuine Jewellery Sale is still pro-
ceeding at A. J HUFTON’S. A rare opportunity for
intending purchasers wishing to make wedding presents
or other gifts to their friends.
A splendid Stock to choose trom. No puff! Come
and see for yourselves.
A.
Note the Address—
J. H U P T 0 N,
636 George-street.
M‘ M I N N AND CO.
AUCTIONEERS. PRODUCE MERCHANTS,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial, Shipping, and
Country Orders executed with despatch.
Miscellaneous
0 L I F FOE D, LOVE, AND, CO.
TEA IMPOSTERS, ’
EASTERN AND COMMISSION ;
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are in
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA —Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black .
OFFICES 79 YORK STREET
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
JOHN DANKS*.
IMPORTED OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Ui
Butchers’ Brine Pump
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
235
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL,,. ujJK
ALLWOOL iGnJWEED
T D TWEED|iH|SUITS
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns'°choose from
H.L.SUMMERFIELO
PITTSTSYDNLT
I6s£»cf.
PATTERNS
AND GUIDE TO SELF MEASUREMENT,
SENT, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
GREER AND CO. ' S
PRIZE
ALBURY WINES.
Bed Wines s
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Wines
Reisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed by H. R. Woods A Co., and pub-
lished by W. H. Tkaill & Co. at the Bulletin
Office, 24 Pitt-street.
BLACKET AND DAVY,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEI,
ENGINEERS ANT) IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangtb Bros., Birmingham.
I
CANDY S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY'S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL.
IBBOTSON’S FILES.
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINES T,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
f Ac T(jRiHG JEWt^-V^
9. Bc. lUHUNTER STREET.
WATCHES rxmuntr GOL[
jp> Qj*mm*
t;«El
i^.4.10
SYDNEY
SEND FOR
C ATALOGUE .
GOLD WAT C HE S
4 t R'OM T 3.10.
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY
***
fJIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ABE IN E VEB Y WAY COMPLETE. $ 1
TEY ONE. FOE
\i\u*2 BATHS,
\ HAIR - CUTTING ,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
.And Ornamental Hair Work,
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE “IVAN HOE” WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOR
HERMITAGE.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&c., &c.
FIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
" G. H. STEPHEN & CO., "
J Wine Growers and Merchants, >
13 Bridge Street.
FRUITY WINES
5/6
PEE GALLON.
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONES.
THESE INSTRUMENTS, combining Edison’s most recent improvements, are now acknowledged to be the most
perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of workmanship, elegance of design, and non-
liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
THE EDISON-BELL TELEPHONE
Has been adopted for the Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane Telephone Exchanges, and by numberless commercial
houses throughout the Colonies.
Telephones without batteries, (with magnetic calls) to speak over any distance, for country use, guaranteed to
give satisfactory results.
tt< «. KIH6BBORY,
SOLE AGENT,
6 Market Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
Jg CLARKE AND
Wholesale and Betail
CO.,
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
198 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Comt-honse),
DARLINGHURST.
T
HOM AS
WEBB
&
BOND-STREET,
SONS,
Beg to inform their customers that they have JUST
OPENED a LARGE CONSIGNMENT of
BREAKFAST,
Also,
jDINNEE, a,nd
TEA SETS.
FANCY CHINi
ANI,
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invited.
TRAMWAY TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
’AECY READ’S GHOST-
REDIVIOUS.
