

THE BELLETIN
Vol. S.-No. 100.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1881.
Price—3d.
<% §uUetk •
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24, 1881.
The Premier's Departure.
It is a sign of the times that Sir Henry Paekes
could not announce that he proposed paying a
visit to Europe on private business without a herd
of sycophants attempting to get up a sensation
about it. That private citizens should conceive
the idea of making a presentation of some kind
was not reprehensible in itself. The departure
of the Premier to re-visit his native land,
constituted a sort of epoch in hia career, to
which it is quite fitting that his personal friends
and political admirers should-
banquet now decided on is an and
unobjectionable testimony of esteem, or at any
rate of recognition of the talents of our leading
statesman! But it may bo accepted as illustra-
tive of the superior altitude of the Premier, when
compared with his followers, to see them pressing
upon him, in different ways, pecuniary gifts which
he feels and expressea-the impropriety of accepting.
*#• - f
It has frequently happened thus when men of
strong ability but imperious disposition have
attained a position of leadership. Impatient of
rivalry and of control, they discourage the fellow-
ship of men possessing ability, and habitually
surround themselves with useful nonentities who
industriously elaborate the details of their decrees
the instruments of their will. But it
invariably happens in such cases that these hench-
men, lacking sense to control the sycophancy of
their dispositions, foster the faults of their patron,
and nrgo him to excess which, if left to himself, he
would never have committed. Sir Henry Parkes
appears t j have around him at the present time
men so infatuated with a craze for adulation, and
so incapable of comprehending principles and
proprieties, that they invite him to countenance
proceedings which could, when time for reflection
had elapsed, only do him discredit, and be regarded
as injurious to the purity and manliness of our
institutions.
• • •
Sir Henry has resisted the importunities of the
small men whom his system of Government has
hoisted into importance, and he has, to that
extent, deserved well of the colony. It has pro-
bably not escaped his perspicuous mind that the
real question between himself and the people of
the colony is not whether he should bo presented
with money prior to departure, but whether, when
making up hia mind to quit his post and tempo-
rarily subordinate his official labours to hia private
business, ha should not simultaneously arrange to
waive thelhonorarium attached to his office. A
spontaneous offer to make this surrender would
have become him well, and, at the same time, tho
representatives of tho people would have been
perfectly within their rights in declining to ac-
cept it. Precedents in such cases are worth little.
Premiers of Australian colonies are, within their
own territory, quite great enough men to make
their own precedents. But, taking such prece-
dents as have been established, pro tanto, it has
not been customary for Australian Premiers, when
leaving this continent during recess of Parlia-
ment, to cease to draw the salary attached
to their office. Mr. Berry, when he went
to London on his now historical self-im-
posed mission to the Imperial authorities,
not only drew his salary, but also procured a vote
of J 35000 to defray the expenses of himself and his
colleague. In that instance, however, the business
which took the Victorian Premier was, at least
ostensibly, exclusively of a public nature. When
the Queensland Premier, Mr. MTlwraith, made
his first trip to England, his business was declared
to be primarily of a public nature, although there
was no attempt to deny that private business also
would occupy that energetic man’s attention. He
drew his emoluments, nevertheless. On the occa-
sion of his second visit, hia declared object was to
personally defend himself against charges of
corruption levelled at him by political enemies.
Still, we believe, hd drew hia salary.
* # #
It would have been perfectly easy for Sir
Henry Parkes to vamp up, had he been so
inclined, some pretended public business, under
cover of which he could have obtained, without
open discredit, any sum ho chose to ask for to
defray hia expenses. It is gratifying to perceive
that the Premier has risen superior to sordid
considerations, and has frankly declared that he
goes on his own affairs. There is a loyalty and
a largeness of mind disclosed in this attitude
which goes far to disarm those who have been
accustomed to regard Sir Henry’s actions with
reserve, and which should be a subject for con-
gratulation among his admirers and supporters.
It appears, however, that among these are some
who have been quite unequal to rising to the level
of their chief ; and, instead of appreciating hia J
attitude, they make all kinds of attempts, very
affectionately no doubt, but infinitely self-expos-
ing and clumsy, to pull him down to the lower
level which apparently thoy regard him as really
anxious to occupy.
* • *
This is a very poor compliment which these
humble henchmen of the Premier’s pay to the
object of their genuflections. They allow the
public to perceive that they themselves have not
that elevated idea of tho principles and loftiness
of their idol which the humility of their ordinary
worship might induce people to conclude. Their
action is obviously based on the supposition that,
in not putting his hand in the public purse for
expenses, the Premier has merely been grimacing
in order to delude the vulgar, and that all he re-
quires is that he be solicited by arrangement to
come down from his altitude. This was the
position of many great men before him, and none
of them lacked toadies ready to sacrifice, not only
the money, but even the rights and liberties of
their country, in order to curry favour. CiESAR
and Cromwell alike were tempted by professing
lovers of freedom to assume the crown. Both the
Napoleons depended on fawning rogues among
pretended to thrust upon them these
imperial dignities, which they had formally and
solemnly pretended to abjure.
«# * •
The pretence that "money is requisite in order
that Sir Henry Pabkes may r fitly support the
dignity of his position as Premier of N. !3. Wales, •
is one which could only have originated in a mind
i imbued with the idea that riches or poverty con-
stitute moral distinctions. There are too many
such men among us plutocrats, * who pos-
sessing themselves no claim to prominence
beyond that which they derive from their
money-bags, distended possibly with the proceeds
of chicanery or the foul drippings from a pol -house
bar, are determined to deny, or not competent to
realise, that anything else can confer distinction.
Moral dignity is beyond their comprehension; and,
if it were not, would be recognised as antipathetic
to their own claims. Whenjtho revolted States of
America sent an envoy to the Court of Versailles,
Benjamin Franlin was the man; and the dignity
supported by that emissary, and recognised to this
day, has never been equalled by all the splendours
of Imperial or Royal ambassadors. Who now asks
or cares whether Benjamin Franklin lived in a
garret or ruffled in a palace of his own ? —whether
he brought barely enough money for his subsist-
ence, or was furnished with a thumping credit?
He was Benjamin Franklin. .His dignity was
in his character and reputation ; —money could
have added no jot to it. We do not share the ideas
of Sir Henry's dull sycophants that he needs
money to appear dignified. He possesses talents
which will prove his passport in whatever company
he may be, and is assuredly not one of those idols
of clay which are contemptible unless they are
gilded.
Mr. Justice Williams, of Victoria.
The gentleman whose portrait appears on this
page is probably the youngest Australian judge.
He was born in 1841, his father having been him-
self an occupant of the same Bench which is now
occupied by the subject of our notice. Mr.
Williams’s elevation to the Bench was one of the
last acts of tho Berry administration ; and as ho
had always attached himself in politics to the
Conservative party, and had twice contested,
unsuccessfully, elections in that interest, he is
one of the few Colonial judges whose appointment
has not been more due to political influences than
to consideration of fitness. It may, perhaps, be
owing to this circumstance that Mr. Justice
W.Uiama has earned the reputation of an upright
and impartial judge He is credited with bringing
to the discharge of his functions an unassailable
fairness of mind, which has left no opening for
suspicion that personal bias or feeling of any
kind can sway his decisions or influence his oom-
portmont. Litigants who have a fair and honest
case go into the Court presided over by Judge
Williams with the comfortable consciousness
that they will obtain fair play. They have no
apprehension lest the judge should, like the notori-
ous Jeffreys, favour a side because it happened to
be promoted and advocated by connections
of his own, or that he would, under any
circumstances, permit hia mind to be af-
fected by preconceptions, or allow feelings of
personal dislike to betray him into indications of
hostility or shrewish remarks and waspish re-
joinders during the progress of a case. Under hia
dignified control, it would be impossible for any
juryman to flaunt his prejudices before the court,
or to indulge in interjections evidently designed
to coerce his fellow-jurymen into giving a perverse
verdict in the face of a torrent of contrary evi-
dence, as continually happened when the infamous
judge of James the Second’s time was on the
Bench. Mr. Williams, won distinction at an un-
usually early age as a common-law authority, and
his comparative youthfulness when elevated to
tho Bench probably has had something to do with
the aptness he has since displayed at separating
tho moral kernel and drift of a cause from the
merely technical and exclusively legal considera-
tions which so often seem to outweigh tho sense
of the object of all legal proceedings in the esti-
mation of judges who have been longer immersed
in the exercise of tho ignobler arts of the profes-
sion. To the larrikin element, lately so strong in
Victoria, Judge Williams is a terror—not a patron.
The severity of his sentences, upon offenders of
this description—and their abettors —being brought
before him, has been of infinite service in restrain-
ing the growth of an evil which threatened to
subvert decency in Victoria, as it at one time
similarly menaced public order and virtue in New
South Walps. Mr, Justice Williams shares, in a
marked degree, the* high character for integrity
and impartiality which haft, up to the present day,
distinguished all Australian Judges. #
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Insulting the Dead.
The correspondence regarding the relations subsisting
between the late Mr. Michael Fitzpatrick, M.L.A.,
and his Church, which passed between Bean Sheridan
and Father Coletti, deprives the Roman Catholic
authorities of the only justification which thoy could
have had for thqjr refusal to perform the usual rites
over the grave of the deceased. Technically, perhaps,
they may be able to justify themselves to their own co.
religionists. • But to outsiders, like ourselves,* their
position appears now as atrocious ns it appeared a week
ago to the bigoted ruck of so-called religions people
who imagine that by hating their fellow-men on a sec-
tarian excuse they establish their title to righteousness.
According to Father Coletti, the deceased gentleman
had ceased to bo at variance with bis Church. He had
expressed his desire to be reconciled to it, and had been
coolly told to wait. This trifling with an immortal soul,
as if it were a bale of goods which it was inconvenient to
afford stowage-room for a while, may be one of tho
privileges of the Roman Catholic clergy. If so, it is a
privilege few will envy them. It is quite incomprehen-
sible how Dr. Coletti, while possessing the knowledge
that his parishioner’s only alienation from the Church
was tho non-performance of an outward ceremonial
which the priest himself had withheld’, could yet allow
his obsequies to be those of a man who had died in
mortal sin. There is something behind which is in-
explicable on any hypothesis creditable to tho
priestly rulers of the Roman Catholic body; and justi-
fication has been afforded for the prevailing suspicion
that the whole proceeding was deliberately arranged
with the view of casting a slight upon the memory of a
man whoilb contrite heart was all his Maker required,
but was too small a thing to disarm the venom of eccle-
siastios more concerned about being deferred to in
this world than in promoting happiness in the next.
“Nobility of Labour.”
There is at times an outcry about the presumption of
parents who prefer to see their sons clerks, and
their daughters milliners, dressmakers, and so on, to
devoting either to work of a more laborious kind. After
all, it is only an outcome of that desire which is in-
herent among parents, that their offspring should stand
one rung higher up on the world’s ladder than that
they themselves occupy. It is this desire among rich
men who have been deprived of educational advantages
in their youth, which impels them to send their sons to
Latin school aad University. It is true it is
often mere vanity that prompts this great sacri-
floe but it is a sacrifice none the less, and de-
serves its place among the lesser and greater unsel-
fishnesses of this life. But the working man is not
greatly to be blamed for wishing his son a clerk rather
than a stonemason, his daughter a milliner rather than
a housemaid. What other lesson is he set ? If you
talk to him about the nobility of labour, he can show
you his hands hardened to leather, as the result of his
life of hard work—and you can see what he can’t show
you, that his mind all this while has dwindled—it has
become streaky; and unlike the man of culture, wbcS3
opinion on any subject should be worth listening to, ho
is merely a very limited specialist. What have yon to
say to all this P And his betters in the social scale only
set him this example. They, he sees, run their sons into
every position where money can be made without hard
MR. JUSTICE WILLIAMS, OF VICTORIA.


ABE
THE PUREST AND BESOT
MEDICINE EVER MADE!
They are Compounded from
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake and Da. ad^lion,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, andl
Val cable Medicines in the World, and I
in addition, contain all the best and I
most effective curative properties of all 1
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Eernlator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Fkysiclam..
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum? hut the
Purest and Best Medicine ewr made,
and no person or family shouldf "W*. with,
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS
If you are suffering from poor heoltlh,
or languishing on abed of sickness, taka
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Core Ton.
If you are simply ailing, if you foeli
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly/
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive Ton..
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore Ten.
If you are a man of business, or
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work.
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen Tom.
If you are suffering from over-eating-
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the ease.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve Ton.
If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and fe*l
that your system needs Cleansing, Tcu-
ing, or Stimulating, without in toxica,
ting.
Hop Bitters is What Ton Reel.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give Ton New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or Buffering.
MONTBPIORB, STUART, * CO. f
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
SMOKE
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
FINEST
SUN-CURED VIRGINIA TOBACCO,
MOST DELICIOUS FLAVOUR,
FREE FROM ALL ADULTERATION.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST
FOB
FRUITS AND FLOWERS CIGARETTES.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA—
MONTBPIORE, STUART & CO
JgENJAMIN BROOKES*
■ Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware Fire,
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware. Glass.
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels, *
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasv
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for nolinhini
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and It is cheap, effective, and a great’saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,/
Alderman Hordern drives a pair of the right
sort —thoroughbreds. 6
“Can Yon Swim?” —Professor Cavil), the world
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths are romantically situated on
the .North Shore, the water being beautifully pure
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
bath, and ho bach within the hour. Keturu boat fare.
In hath, 6.1 Open for ladies every morning from
tIU and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5
adyt*
work. If ha is wrong, he is so in good and numerous
company. The fact that explains all these develop-
ments is that the conditions of labour are not satie-
fictory. Tho man sees that by his and his fellows’
work the master is made very rich —is enabled to live
sumptuously, while he whose work is the means
of achieving this, is put off with " wages accord-
ing to contract.” The employer gives his capital,
the employed his labour; and the employer deducting
the wages “ according to contnot,” pockets the profit.
This does not seem just—nay, it is not just; and the
relations of capital with labour never will bo satis
factory until this be recognized and acted upon. True >
this statement applies all round, but with a special
harshness to tho handicraftsmen, who have the fact
brought homo to thorn in a very concrete form indeed.
It there could ha something like co-opcration or fairer
division of profits between master and men, there would
be no strikes, and an era would set in for the whole
colony, which no amount of protection could ever
assure.
Piddington’s Principles.
Mr. Pidpisoton’s idea of freedom must be a singular
one. It has been reserved for this distinguished
exemplar of tho probable truth oßone of the Darwinian
theories, to’ announce that the Russian people are free
—made free by their late benevolent ruler. According
to riDDiNOTON, freedom is not inconsistent with a Ur.
bility to bo whisked from tho bosom of one’s family >
and hurried without trial or warning, or even a reason
given, to a frozen desert or a frightful quicksilver mine >
where the living body decays and corrupts like the
flesh of a corpse. Liberty is not inconsistent with
compulsion upon householders —to keep a Government
spy at eyery door, and payhis wages. Liberty is not
inconsistent with restriction—upon the right of free
speech and free press, such that no man dares say what
he thinks, and no journal published in a free country is
admitted to the land of freemen without first having
half its contents blotted ont. Freedom, according to
Piddington, is quits compatible with impotence to
secure any form of representation. It is compatible
with Being at ;the mercy of nominee senators —often
silectcd for their aptitude in crawling, and their readi-
ness to become propagators of despotic principlos. To
place a people in such a condition may be to grant them
freedom according to Mr. Piddington’s lights. And
men who sympathize with tyrants, and give no heed to
tho miseries of a down-trodden people, can bear
no love to The Bulletin. This journal has steadily
advocated the rights of the people, and has denounced
all who would either plunder, oppress, or seduce them.
From the apologists for Crowned Iniquity, we expect
nothing but abuse, and the taunts and splutterings
of such are utterly impotent to move ns, when the
cause of humanity requires that we deal with a Com-
modus or a Clontarf; when we denounce a despot or
expose a pimp.
Condemned to Pay Costs.
The Full Court has upheld the right of Mr. Justice
Manning to mike such award of costs as to him, as the
Judge officiating at the trial, seemed good in the ease
of Moora and another v. Haynes and Archibald (the
notorious Clontarf ease), and that Judge has certi-
fied to costs in favour of the plaintiff. It now only
remains for the injured proprietors of Clontarf to take
steps to inflict upon the defendants the punishment
which Judge Manning has empowered them to meteont
bo them as criminals who outraged law and j ustioe, and
wrought injury to the pnblio welfare by exposing the
scones which took place at Clontarf on last Boxing Day.
As such festivities have been sheltered by the
law, fresh developments and renewed growth may to
hopefully anticipated by the people of this colony, while
the offenders who rashly ventured to raise a voice of
warning will receive the castigation considered appro,
priato by the administrator of justice—of paying a
pecuniary penalty which will probably exceed £1000; or
if unable to dose, of expiating their crime in prison ;
while the actual writer, although willing to accept
whatever oblc quy is due to his effusion, remains un-
touched and hopelessly recalcitrant.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed .]
“Yass”: The newspaper man wins. “ Desir-
ableness” is the correct word “ W.HB." : The case
had many aspects. We treated those which appeared
in danger of being misapprehended in consequence of a
popular clamour. With much that you say we are in
accord, hut do not regard the present as a fitting oppor-
tunity for inculcating ihat lesson “ A.X.E.” : Thanks
“A.Z.”: You arc barking up the wrong tree.
‘•Desirableness " is much hotter than “ desirability."
W.D." : Most acceptable “ Madame C." :
Kank libels “John Brown” (Graf ton ) : 111-natured
bosh. S'-cd it to tho Meddler “'lhos. Platt”: You
are tos Kng. Noticed elsewhere “ Sana-culotte ”
means “without breeches.” “Cow” is au original
Saxon word, and, in Sydney, signifies, as you no doubt
aro painfully aware, the business partner of pumps and
small-pox “ Qlaucus" : Your copy of verses is
long, and has not sufficient local interest to entitle
it to spaoo. The lines would he just as local if
printed in London or New Orleans as in Sydney.
Try your hand, which shows good form, on some-
thing which smacks more strongly of the foil
“C.HG”: Thanks “ 0.K.”: Bight “Viola”:
Received late “ T.H.”: Much obliged....” Rambler”:
Bather to© straight “CM.G.”: Excellent. Hold
over for a week “Beatrice” (Narandera): Write
again “E.K.": Capital joke. This alone would
qualify you for the post of principal jester of E. K-dia,
“ Subscriber" (Kiama): We can’t insert all this
blow about tho Blow Hole. “Casino”: Your yarn is
as old as the Knight of Clovelly, and nearly as tough.
It was first told by Theodore Hook, about two men
dining at a restaurant and getting np a race to decide
who should pay, then sliding. The office of the Stdset
Main is in Hunter-street. Send it along, marked
« Meddler." “ Boz ” : Send along again “ Scram “
(Gundagai): Will endeavour to give effect to sugges-
tion “J. 8.”: Received “Nobody”: We don’t
seo the joke in the last line of your par “ H.N.S." :
No J. M.: A valuable tip “ Atropos” : We can-
not insert items merely “to oblige," it they are
personalities “Jennie": Thanks for item, which
appears, and for your good wishes. As regards the
osculation business, we don’t know exactly what it is,
and we have mislaid our dictionary. But write again,
whenever your “ three pastimes that are delightful but*,
dangerous,” afford a spare minute. You might even
rail and illustrate that osculation par,...“ A. E.": Will
touch up for next issue. “ Cantab " : Received; next
issue perhaps,.....“ E. A.": Thanks. Space scarce this
week.
Mayor Harris has declined to comply with the
request, embodied in a resolution of the Sydney Muni-
cipal Council, that he should inquire into imputations
against aldermen of their being interested in contracts
and other business involving the expenditure of the
civic funds. Mr. Harris giver, as his reason for declin-
ing. that ho can get nothing definite enough to go upon,
and farther thinks inquiry would bo futile while he
lacks authority to compel attendance of witnesses.
THE NEWSLETTER.
860 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
.£40,000 already spent by Government, re small-
pox.
The new Australian Station Flagship, H.M.S
Nelson, has arrived at Perth.
Doctors now certain that the supposed case of
small-pox at Bega is true variola.
Ned Kelly’s original armour is said to bo in the
possession of a Beechworth publican.
In the Far West and North, trading in darkies ’
and holf-castos is quite a regular thing.
Small-pox has considerably enlarged the area of
its operations. Several cases in Woolloomooloo.
An effort is to be made to suppress the pro-
posed “female G pas-you-please,” at Melbourno.
Mr. S. St. John Topp, B. A., LL.B., the rising
equity lawyer of Melbourne, joined the ranks of the
benedicts last week.
During the week, several cases before Supreme
Court, in which women charred with borrowing other
women’s husbands’ and vice versa.
It is a fact now established beyond doubt that
the wild North coast Australian natives are under the
impression that Chinamen are females.
Tha “ stabbing man ” has disappeared, but now
a “punching man” lias cotno along. He hits ladief
in the “ bread-basket,” and then takes to his heels*
Charles M’Evoy. the young squatter, who, while
drunk at Hay in 18('5, married a barmaid, with whom
ho has not since lived, has obtained a divorce at Mel-
bourne.
The severest shocks of earthquake experienced
since 1818 passed over tho Southern part of N Z. on
December 5. The vibration at Christchurch continued
about 45 secs.
Board to be appointed to investigate the Harris
(Lands Office) forgeries, which, so far, amount to £lO3O
Harris is known to have committed 31 frauds by for-
geries, and five embezzlements.
Victorian Government refuse to pay Melhado
and Curtis, of Sydney, any commission for floating the
late £500,000 loan They allege that brokerage was
only intended for Victorian brokers.
The other day, 48 Chinese passengers per
Hungarian, from Melbourne to Hongkong, had to pay
£490 poll-tax before being allowed to land here. The
money will be returned when they leave.
The new works of Messrs. Hudson Bros., at
Granville, will employ at least 1000 men, which, at the
lowest average, will mean a.snm of £2OOO per week, or
£104,000 yearly, to bo paid on account of wages alone.
Clement E. Downing, chemist’s assistant, lately
from Melbourne, suicided at his lodgings, 128 Riley-
atroet, Sunday morning. He had been in the habit of
taking hydrocyanic (prussic) acid after drinking to ex-
cess.
The Supreme Court has virtually upset the
finding of the jury in the libel case of Moore Bros v.
The Bulletin, by declining to alter the decision of
Judge Manning, awarding full costs to Mcora Brothers,
the plaintiffs.
William Match ell, stated to bo a doctor in Syd-
ney, has been arrested in Melbourne for stealing a watch
of the value of £2B, from a woman of hid repute.
Probably one of our numerous army of undiplomaed
and long-tolerated qnacks.
Victorian Electric Lighting Company (Mel-
bourne) making great progress. Two pairs of very
powerful engines have been ordered, and at the end of
January the company hope to light the arcades, opera
house, markets, and street lamps.
Eeid, a Sandhurst schoolmaster, who fired a
bullet through his brain five weeks ago, died on Satur-
day. There has of late been in Australia an extra,
ordinary number of cases in which men with fated j
cerebral bullet wounds have lingered for weeks.
Melbourne police tried to arrest James Ah Kee,
who lived in a brothel. James barricaded the doors,
and presented a loaded ond capped gun. He had pro-
viously smashed £l2O worth of furniture, and ho
swallowed a dose of opium when tho men in biueentered.
“A petrified snake, between 18 and 20 feet long,
has been found near tho Paterson River. It looks as
though it had been killed in the act of pursuing some
object. We got this from tho Newcastle Herald,
under tho heading “ A Petrified Curiosity,” which wo
at first took as referring to the Herald itself.
The Age accuses the Argus of breaking an
arrangement made between them to withhold publics- I
tion of particulars relative to stops being taken towards
tho capture, at ’Frisco, of Denny, the Fourth Victorian
Building Society embezzler; and adds that tho un- j
authorized publication in tho Argus has most probably
enabled Denny to escape.
This from tho Cooktown Herald “ Miss-
ing: It is an unfortunate, if not a auspicious, ci-oum.
stance, that while other exchanges almost invariably
come regularly to hand, tho Sydney Bollletin is
periodically going astray. There is evidently some- ;
thing wrong in some post-office.” Strange that we
were just going to make the same remark about onr ■
contemporary I .
Eoyziska, the Hanging Bock prospector, has |
taken up a claim, from which he, the other cay, got !
23 lb. specimens, including many nuggets of pure gold, j
He has 351 b. stone, exj octed to yield 75 per cent. gold. |
Warden Brown reports that Eoyziska in four or five
days obtained lOlbs. gold—one bucket of dirt alone con. j
taining 200 z., and that he, on the 14th instant, deposited
141bs. specimens, valued at £5OO. Since then he has I
deposited 18Ibs. specimens equally rich.
The other day, at Brisbane, Mr. Swanwick, i
while defending a prisoner, addressed a witness in the
hex by his colloquial title, “ Bob,” whereupon Judge
Harding remarked that it had not boon shown that
that was the namo of tho witness. Mr. Swanwick then
said something to the effect that if his Honor had had
more experience as a criminal lawyer, he would have
been aware that some witnesses wore only known by
their Christian names; ond there was a scone, which
was terminated by an apology from tho genial P.P.
On Separation Day, Ah Qnce, a Chinese, was
hung at Brisbane for having murdered a compatriot on
the Palmer. Ah Chee, a Bible Society evangelist,
waited on his brother before the dread hour, to try and
induce him to alter hia Mnmbo Jnmbo from Confucius
to something else, but his report of the interview is
not satisfactory. A Chinese correspondent wrote to
the Brisbane Courier, complaining of tha execution
taking place on a holiday, but as Ah Quae had to be
hanged, then the sooner the better for him ; and if it
was right to hang him, then the better the day the
better tho deed. Ho waver, perhaps, it was rather too
bad to deprive the poor devil —we mean Chinaman, or,
on second thought, both the devil and the Chinaman—
of the holiday.
This is how it is done. Passengers by rail to
Melbourne are subjected to no medical examination for
small-pox at tho Border. The precaution takes the
shape of a pan of snlphnr, which a zealous official pre-
sents to tho soses of his victims in as surreptitious a
manner as he may—sometimes with disastrous effects.
This is a farce. But every steamer coming into Hobson’s
Bay, from Sydney, is hoarded by the Health-officer, and
every passenger examined, ladies included. If a false
alarm is given, as is the case sometimes, the passengers
have to appear on clerk at midnight, in dishabille suitab’e
to the operation, and after enjoying the coolness of the
evening for awhile are politely informed of the mistake.
The process is then repeated at daybreak. This is a
more ludicrous farce still, for consumptive orastbmatio
patients especially, as the examination must take place
on deck, with exposed chest, and in all weathers. Pas-
sengers from Sydney to Now Zealand direct, again, aba
without exception quarantined on their arrival. If they
go to Melbourne, and there re-ship, however, that con-
tingency is avoided. Truly there is wisdom running
wild somewhere. If it could only be bottled up and
conserved, there might be hope yet.
Visitors to the Arcade, should not neglect to call
at M. Thomas’s. The works of Art, Gorman and Swiss
wood carvings, likewise tho photographs from original
paii-tmgs at Berlin, are well worth inspection.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Sir John Robertson for Yass ?
Parliament prorogued on Tuesday.
Rumoured that Farnell takes the Lands port-
folio when Hoskins resigns.
According to the Ballarat Courier, two P’s
—Patterson and Protestantism—will do for tho Vic-
tonan Opposition cry,
A. T. Clark, M.L.A., says that the Victorian
Assembly has been handed over, lock, stock, and barrel,
to the Roman Catholics, and is under priestly influence.
David’s little joke: “ Mr. Buchanan then asked
if he could move—‘That this House approves and
sanctions tho departure of the Premier.'" (Laughter.)
The N.Z. Corrupt Practices Prevention Act,
whiob prohibits the use of cabs at elections, was wholly
set u-’ight by the various candidates on general
election day.
The hardest election fight that took place in
New Zealand was at Auckland, between Sir George
Qrey and the Mayor of the town, Mr. J. M. Clark, the
veteran statesman being returned by a majority of 31
Band and commercial influence played a prominent
part in the proceedings.
Members of Parliament got confused on the
“scheduled bird" question, the other night, and there
was considerable difference of opini m as to whether the
“ black magxtie" mentioned in the sohed Uc had any
existence ©r not. The dlscnsfion did not raise the
reputation of the Assembly for wisdom.
Apropos to the statement made at a recent
Opposition canons by Mr. J. B. Patterson, M.L.A., to
the effect that the Catholics had tha whole power of
the State (Victoria) in their hands at this moment,
although they only represented a fraction of the com-
munity, . . . and that it would be necessary to form
some "combination to check tha power of the Boman
Catholics, for, by reason of the differenceo between
Liberals and Conservatives, they held a power against
every Government, and were capable of scoring a vic-
tory at every election, Melbourne Punch has a cartoon
representing Sir John O'Shanassy standing in a stye,
wearing a beautiful pair of pig’s ears on his head, a
“ bhit of a shtick ” under his arm, and a mitre on his
bump of self esteem. Patterson, as a butcher, with
tools of trade, is " close handy,” remarking“ This
sort of thing won't do. He was a good, usefal animal,
whan he was content to lie quietly in onr stye; but now
he’s set up for himself, it’s about time. I’m thinking,
that we gave him the knife.”
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
The Home Secretary refuses the request of
deputations asking for the release of persons imprisoned
for corruption at elections..,,..Russian police have
arrested 200 persons at St, Petersburg, and say they are
Nihilists The Island of Chios, scene of recent
earthquakes, is slowly sinking into the sea....... Tr-
emendous gs.le over England; several people killed in
London Seizure of gunpowder and dynamite, with
arms and documents, in Dublin. Numerous arrests
British Parliament will reopen February 7 The
Enropa («.) passed Snez Meat cargo all right John
Elder arrived Suez, Friday last Since tho body of
the late Earl Crawford was stolen, special precautions
against the abstraction of Prince Albert’s bones have
taken Managers of London Theatres warned
officially that they will be held criminally responsible
for any loss of life resulting from insufficient outlets.
At tha Vienna Rink Theatre, the firemen and police
neglected to open the doors by which the whole
audience might have escaped Mr. Erring-
ton, M.P., a Home Euler, and a Roman Catholic,
has been seat to Rome on at special Govern-
ment mission to the Pope, aoout Ireland
A Roscommon farmer shot for paying rent. Placards in
numerous places warn tenants not to pay rent, on pain
of death Quitcan's trial is so spun out that it is feared
he may be shot in the d0ck.,,,, .3000 persons hare volun-
teered to plough Parnell’s Wicklow estate English
steamer detained at Constantinople under suspicion of
ck’ryhig contraband gunpowder The King of Italy
and the Emperor of Germany aro shortly to meet
Turcomans are reeking the Iprotcction of Russia!
The Tekkes have abandoned Mery,.,,...The Ikjshman
newspaper sffized at Dublin, and the staff arrested
45,000 families of Tunisian patriots have removed to
Morocco as a refuge against tho French Henri
Rochefort recently was criminally prosecuted for
libel in asserting that M. Bonstau originated the
Tunisian war for stock-jobbing purposes. Acquitted
The Marquis of Lorno, at Exeter Hall, advocated and
promoted a system of female emigration to Canada
Bismarck ill The balloon carrying Powell. M R,
was seen from A’dernoy, ono of tho Channel Islands,
and it is reported from Madrid, that a balloon was
also seen at Santander. Britain is treating
with America, France, and Germany, for a mixed court
of control in tha Pacific. France wants to retafn
Rataia Viscount Boyle, eldest son of the Earl of
Shannon, who was missing, and was thought to have
been murdered, has turned np. He absented himself
from his regiment without leave. The question now
is,'who “she" is The Qieen has contributed
£2OO to the fund for alleviating the distress of Irish
gentlewomen, deprived of their incomes by the refusal
of tenants to pay rents French journals say the
Pope’s position in Rome has become unbearable. The
question of bis Holiness removing to some other
country is seriously revive! Mr. Gladstone and
E Sir Vernon Harcourt have received threatening letters
[of the most malignant kind English Press condemns
i American proposals to modify existing treaties affecting
i tho maintenance and construction of Panama cana1......
| Chilians persist in annexing Pern, despite the remon-
strances of tho United States Mr. Scoville, counsel
for Guiteau, has delivered a public lecture at Washing-
| ton, declaring that, in the excited state of pablic feeling,
j a fair trial for his client is impossible, and that he
, expects Guiteau will be shot before the trial is over
> German Reichstag has re-elected its President and
‘ Vice-President Eighteen Socialists anested in
Vienna Military riot at Suez, consequent on a
Bedonin having murdered a soldier. Explosion at
Alram colliery, Wigan, Lancashire; 40 deaths Lord
Mayor of London has invited provincial Mayors to co-
operate in the movement for the defence of property in
Ireland The Government is alarmed by tho attitude
of tho ladies who head the Irish Ladies’ Land League,
which has now been declared an illegal association.
Grauge-Gormau Giol is being prepared for the im-
prisonment of ladies Another farmer murdered at
Abbeyleix, Queen’s County A Prophet has arisen in
Soudan, Egypt, and with 1500 believers has defeated a
body of Egyptian troops, killing 300 A conference
of experts unanimously pronounce Guiteau sane
Imposing public funeral of. the victims of the Vienna
Ring Theatre Father Robert Dunn has been ap-
pointed E. C. Bishop of Brisbane, and Dr. Cani, present
administrator of that diocese, has been made Bishop of
Rockhampton, a new see The seizure at Dublin com-
prised 30 rifles, 10,000 ball-cartridges, a little dynamite,
and some sword-bayonets Bismarck’s health is im-
proving Gambetta adheres to his statement that the
English Government had recognised the treaty made
between France and the Bey of Tunis. Eirl Granville
resents this Tho London Common Council refuse to
support the Lort. Mayor in his movement to raise funds
for the defence of Irish property-holders Tho rob-
bers who carried off £40,000 worth of jewellery from
the residence of Lord Arthur Hill-Trevor have not
been discovered. Two servants arrested on suspicion
1 ave been released A slave dbow has been captured
off Zanzibar Another plot to assassinate the new
Czar by blowing up tho palace at Gatchina, has been
discovered. A number of officers of the Guard have
been arrested on suspicion 2XK) cases of rifles have
been shipped at B ston for Liverpool Disastrous
floods in Algeria. 200 lives lost Gordon Bennett’s
missing yacht, Jeanette, has bjen discovered on tho
Siberian coast. Great rejoicing.


£JfIEISTMAS B
IXC DESIGN F i
Steam to MELBOURNE,
Every TUI
Steam to BRISBANE.
MAEYB 3EOUGI
and
EOCKHAM
TUESDi
For all particular?, apply
W. HOWARD SMITI
STEAM TO LONDON-
-1881.
The following Royal Mail Stea'
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIG
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPANY, will leave SY
mentioned dates, for Melbourne,
DON, via the SUEZ CAN AD, call
And the service will he main!
steamers at intervals of a fort nigh
S iloon passengers homewards n
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, go
steamer within a month; hut failii
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guine
8s in addition.
Passages from London can he gr
For plans and full particulars,
and CO., and ANDEESON, AN
Joint Managers of the line; or to
General Manager in A
O
o
EIENT LINE OP
PARCEL EXPE
Special Arrangements have bee
veyance of Parcels and small packt
Steamers to London at reduced ra
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a
or 6d. per pound,vor fraction of i
Packages will be received at thi
issued, up to Noon of the day prior
sailing. All freights payable in i
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILI
Manager of Orien
267 George-street, Sydney.
fJIHE PAINLESS COB
A Sure Belief, and in multitude
Cure for Coras
Prepared only by John Clowes, Cl
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Ell
ney and Brisbane; and sold by
vendors.
ASK FOE HANOI
OE GOOD
Wo beg to draw ;
PAETICULAE ATT]
to the
ASIATIC TEA (
PACKET TE
Packed|in pounds and ha]
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2s. and
PURE INDIAN TEA,
2s. 6d. s
PUEE CEYLON TEA,
2s. 6d. t
PUEE JAVA TEA,
2s. 6d. t
Special Quotations given to W 1
In the Assigned Estate of G.
JEWELLERY TO THE AMO
N order to dispose of the above Stock, we have made up the
found very cheap, and consist of the folic
[REGISTERED.]
Gent’s Parcel of Jewellery
For £5.
£ s. d.
1 Silver Waltham Watch,
guaranteed for 5 years... 215 0
1 Silver Chain, massive,
weighing over loz 0 12 6
1 Toll Suite Gold, consist*
ing of solitaires, S studs,
and collar stud 0 12 6
1 Silver Locket 0 5 0
1 Good Oold Stone Signet
King.... 0 15 0
£5 0 0
Ladies’ Parcel of Jewellei
For £5.
£ i
1 Gold Watch, Hall marked 2 I
1 Gold Albert 1 K
1 Colonial Gold Set Brooch
and Earrings.. 1 J
1 Fancy Gtld Eing 0 1
£5 (
In the event >f these goods not giving satisfaction, they can be exchanf
EVAN JONES, 9 & 11 HUI
Having purchased the above Estate, all Letters should be a
payable to him. Sent post free to all parts of the colony.
MCCLELLAND ANJ
Beg most respectfully to invite the attention of their kind patrons, am
stock of
PROVISIONS, PRESERVES, FR
Which they have specially imported from the very best houses, for the
largely-increasing Christmas trade. They congratulate themselves oi
goods of the choicest quality, which they are sure will give their patroi
The first item we shall mention will be
HAMS. HAMS.
Our stock of genuine York Hams, cured by Verey and Sons, and spe
strongly recommend.
By arrangement with the various enters in the Merimbula district, we ]
nice handy sizes, specially well-cured, rich, juicy, and of a delicious
the highly flavoured U brand, now made famous by the immense numb
satisfaction they have given to purchasers.
Our Choice Streaky Breakfast I
. From the same district, in nice small sides, will, we are
CHEESE.
Prime Bodalla and Edam Cheese of the vei
Yeey Choice OX TONGUES in C
Large size, well cured, and specially selected. Also, Ox Tongues, I
and Soups, &c., in tins.
IN FRUIT
We have secured the finest lot of Valencia Baisius we have ever seen i:
in flavour, and of delicious sweetness.
Our new Vostizza Currants are large fruit, and of splendid quality.
We have exercised the same care in the selection of all our other Chr
Sultana Baisins, Candied Peel, Preserved Ginger, Chow Chow, Cumqi
Fruits in Brandy, Jordan Almonds, Soft Shell Almonds, Barcelona and
OUR STOCK OF WINE
Is from the very choicest vineyards, and comprises very choice old P
&c., in pints and quarts. We also have continually in stock Ale an
Bull Dog, Boar’s Head, Ac., which wo will sell at the lowest possible pi
We trust that our efforts to supply goods of the very best descr
meet with the approbation and consequent patronage of all our old friei
personally wishing them all a Merry Christmas and a happy New Year.
M'CLELLAND AND ROACH, FAR
666 GEORGE STREET, BRICKF
v
as
$5
£
DEPOT
FORWALTHAM
.LEVERS
TO PERSONS IN DIFJ
the Mutual Trade Protect]
cover your debts or obtain the be
Address to Ihe Secretary, 65 ]
WANTED, SDBSCEIB;
net Bulletin. W. I
News A<ent, and Stationer, Queei
JOHN S
WHOLESALE, E]
and
MANUFACTURING I
374 GEOEGE STREET
The designs selected by Mr. Sa
mas Card Competition, inaugurate
are now ready, and may be obtain
and Stationers in Australia.
These cards are essentially Aus
being designed by Australian Arli
by Mr. Sands’s own lithographer
works as above. Persons wishing
this new Colonial industry, are reqi
each card bears on it Mr. Sands’s i
Glass. This: caution is necessary, a
being offered to the public, which,
in character, are of European prod
In addition to the cards of hi
Sands has imported the most variei
in the colonies. Those desirous of
looted with artistic taste, cannot d
his stock, which includes the vario
the home competitions, together w
tions from the principal Englis
American Manufacturers.
Mr. Sanib has also on view the ]
premiums of One Hundred and Fit
hibition, lately held at the Art G
Wales.
CHEOMO.LITHOGEAPH
November, 1881.
MASON BROI
&
it utm-
AWARD*
14 & 16 £
S 3
Have always ir
to the TEA
SALE BUTI
ieonmonge:
GENEE
GLASi
EARTH
WINES, BEE!
and
BULK Mi
Ag«
JOHN WAL
Old High
J. SORI
Cc
J. T. (
Schnapps
A. MELVI
Edinburf
NEW BUILDINGS, New
Buildings, CENTRAL FUENII
29, 31, and 33, Park-stroet. Chrif
Christmas. Make yonc purchase;
Furnishing Arcade, where you can
every article requisite for househ
greatly reduced prices, in oonseque:
festivals. H. LEVIT and CO.
f'IHEISIMAS PRESENTS,
seats.—We respectfully invito tl
to inspect our extensive stock of va
tea sets, dinner sots, electroplate
glassware suitable for Christmas Prei
FURBISHING ARCADE, 29, 31, an
JI
CENTRALFURNIBHINQ A!
and S 3. Park-street.—Take a
extensive show-rooms, where you c
largest stocks of general furniture in
redneed prices H. LEVY and CO.
T THE CENTRAL PUKNIS
you can inspect a large stock of
makers—Erard, London ; Kechtor, A
supplied on time payments. 29, 31, a
HOUSES furnished on 'lime
£l5 np to £lOOO, at the C«
Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park street,
H.
TV H - p a i


Public Companies
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Bundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Friend, Esq.
Gekeear Manager :
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEORGE STBEET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Redfern,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Balli.ua, Balrauald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, G«cu-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Meleng,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Oriinge,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockley, Eylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfleld, Ulmana,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, \V cat
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Cloimcnt,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
The meecantile bank op Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,006
Reserve Fund. ~.,£116,894
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King. M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jaa. Scroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES :
687 George-street Brickfield Hill, and Redfern.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England,
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other nrodnee shipped to England for sale.
gCOTTISH
IMPERIAL
COMPANY.
INSURANCE
CAPITAL £1,000,000.
FIRE BISKS AT LOWEST RATES.
NIXON & CO.,
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BRIDGE STBEET CHAMBERS.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country.
Lion fire insurance company,
Limited.
Chief Offices—s LOTHBURY, LONDON, E.C.
Subscribed Capital £1,000,000.
Paid-up Capital, £200,000. Reserved Fund, £50,000.
Annual Income £150,000.
FIRE INSURANCE on every description of property
in town and country, at LOWEST RATES. Losses
promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
New South Wales Branch :
QUEEN’S CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE ST
JNO. C. NEILD, Manager.
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
JJ USI N E S SEJ3_ FOR SALE.
FROST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Business, and Partnershin
AGENTS. 1
Offer for Sale Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Countrv
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO,OOO, Intending Purchasers, who favour us with a
call, can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in-
terest.
All Parties about disposing
will find F. and Co. the most
Medium in the Colony to effect
Offices: 79, Pitt-street.
AND S. PREDDEY
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Eeskime Stbeet.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber.
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &o„ at lowest rates
of their BUSINESSES,
Equitable and Quickest
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
ABB MADE ONLY BY
The Singer Manufacturing Company.
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK, U.SA.
Chief Office in Europe:
39 POSTEE LANE, LONDON.
Depot for New South Wales
No. 1 DABBING STOEE 3, HAEBOUE
SYDNEY.
S
I
N
G
E
R
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
HAVE
All the Latest Improvements.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOR
Largest Variety of Work,
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOB
Strength and Beauty of Stitch.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, and Quilting.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOE
Plaiting, Binding, and Frilling.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
FOE
Kilting, Cording, and,Ruffling.
8
I
N
G
E
R
160 FIRST PRIZES.
EAST TERMS— 2s, 6d. WEEKLY.
AGENTS IN EVEEY TOWN.
LOCAL DEPOTS:
BOLTON STEEET, NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM, STEEET, BATHUEST.
AUBDEN STEEET N., GOULBUEN.
PEEL STEEET. TAMWOETH.
VICTOEIA STEEET, GEAFTON.
No. X DAELING STOEES,
HAEBOUE STEEET, SYDNEY.
RINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
AEE THE
EECOGNISED AGENTS
OF THE
CELEBEATED SINGEE MANUFACTUEINQ CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no inteeest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWAEE OP IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE " SINGER”—
TUENEE & COMPANY,
353 George-streot.
THE ONLY "SINGER”—
TUENEE & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
mm / o
HOME COMPANION, /
/ \ <
home Shuttle, /
WERT HEIM, AO /
*»■* /Cb /
Ac.. Ac. / \ /
"s
r / sC
/ cv
9
V
c
&
V
The
Light
Jf Running
/STANDARD.
2s. 6d-
per seek.
Needles, Oils,
and parts for ail
Machines.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINE
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney,
have boon appointed agents for these celeDrati
machines.
Call and see them—Month’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINQEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
OTTO” SILENT GAS ENGINJ
NoBOILE]
full POWE
AT A M(
MENT’S N(
TICE.
No Tronb
I with Co a
I Ashes, Smok
rlnsuranc
Water, o
Attendance.
Cost of Ga
lid per hors
power p<
.... _ with gt
WffiriSSSSBBsS? at 6s 6d p<
GIBBS, BRIGHT, and CO.. Agents, Street.
HE
Chemists and Druggists
CAUTION. —In our style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature —rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Bosohee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or’Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
t.bia continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d.;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
%• They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXPOEiD STB.EET STDNET.
J.
And
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
XTENRY’S COLONIAL OINTMENT, AND
JO. AUSTRALIAN WORM POWDERS.
Prepared only by the Inventor and Proprietor, J
HENRY, CHEMIST, 750 George-strect, Haymarket,
third door from Commercial Bank.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linotns, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL'S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
miCKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
JL tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
IIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PJVWOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
. J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and Freneh
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucber, 40.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all those at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON.
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 13th December, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from this
date, they will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
No. 1018; Ah Sin" and another; Portion No. 15;
County of Clive, parish of Annandole; 20a.; Application
No. Vegetable Creek 432.
No. 1019; Ah Sin and another; Portion No. 18;
County of Clive, parish of Annandale; 20a,.; Application
No. Vegetable Cresk 433.
No. 1020; Ah Lee and others; Portion Nos. 17 and 16;
County of Clive, parish of Annandale; 40a. ; Applica-
tion No. Vegetable Creek 439.
No. 1028; J. W. Hall and others; Portion No. 152;
County of Gough, parish of Arvid; 20a.; Application
No. Vegetable Creek 353.
No. 1041; A. F. Glennie; Portion No. 63; County of
Clive, parish of Binghi; 20a.; Application No. Vege-
table Creek 471.
No, 1042 ; A. F. Glennie ; Portion No. 64; County of
Clive, parish of Binghi; 20a.; Application No. Vege-
table Creek 472.
No. 1045; A. F. Glennie; Portion No. 65; (Sounty of
Clive, parish of Binghi; 20a.; Application No. Vege-
table Creek 473.
No. 1044; A. F. Glennie; Portion No. 66; County of
Clive, parish of Binghi; 20a.; Application No. Vege-
table Creek 474.
No. 1120; J. W.’ Hall and others ;|Portion No. 171;
County of Arrawatta, parish of Athol; 20a.; Application
No. Vegetable Creek 361.
No. 1122 ; T. Colgan and another; Portion No. 71;
County of Arrawatta, parish of Lome; 40a.; Applica-
tion No. Vegetable Creek 450.
No. 1163; R. Donoghue; Portion No. 27; County of
Gough, parish of Scone; 20a.; Application No. Vege-
table Creek 488.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 9th December, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within .thirty days from this date,
they will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
Hunter and Maci.eat Mining District,
No. 565; John J. Stone and another; Portion No. 31;
County of Gloucester, parish of Hewong; 5a.; Applica-
tion No. Dungog 26.
No. 566; John J. Stone and others; Portion No. 32;
County of Gloucester, parish of Hewong; 2a.; Applica-
tion No. Dungog 33.
Business Announcements
(Legal.)
HORTEE, FITZGERALD, AND ASHEE
I SOLICITORS,
69 CABTLEEBAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUAEIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Pnblio.
Legal.— Mr. t. m, slatteey,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
LEGAL.— N.W. COOKE, Solicitor. OFFICE :
3 Ground Floor, Wentworth Court. PRIVATE
ADDRESS: 16 Sir John Young’s Cresent, Opposite
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
Belmont house and hotel,
LAKE MACQUARIE,
IS THE BEST, HEALTHIEST, AND PRETTIEST
PLACE in the Colony for Ladies and Gentlemen requir
lug REST, or CHANGE of AIR, or good SALT-WATER
BATHING.
GOOD BOATS FOE HIRE.
O T C E
OF REMOVAL.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS,
GLASS MANUFACTURERS,
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY CHINA
and EARTHENWARE,
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVED
to
269 GEORGE STREET,
Next but One to the Mercantile Bank.
A magnificent selection of New Goods now opening.
W
ILLCOX
AID
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shollers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ao.
HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
READ THIS !!
THE BAKING POWDER
MANUFACTURED by US AND KNOWN
AS OOCTO R -
WAUGHS
HAS A WIDE REPUTATION FOR
EXCELLENCE OF QUALITY
ANDTHE CHEMICALJUDGES OFTHE
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
HAVE CERTIFIED THAT IT IS REALLY
THE PUREST AND
BEST IN THE WORLD
Bv AWARDING TO US THE
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
C;Vc.-M IN THE BAKING POWDER SECT lON
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
T;v. \ OR SQUARE TINS
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACE
•i : s% l S|
WILLIAM DAVIES 8l COY
1881 CHRISTMAS 1881
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE
HAS ON SALE-
HAMS
Compton’s
Darcey’s
U brand
BACON.
CHEESE, Bodalla and Melbourne.
MUSCATELS, ELEMES, VALENCIAS,
SULTANAS, CUEEANTS, PIGS.
“Prunes ““
Bottled Fraits
Jellies
Almonds
Soft Shell
Jordan
Candied Peel
Spices, &o.
Cordials
TEA, COFFEE, SUGAE, BUTTEE,
all of the Best Brands.
Note the Address—
CHARLES J. CHRISTIE,
(Late W. N. Bokes),
571 GEORGE STEEET,
between Liverpool and Goulbnm streets.


Messrs. Webb and Sons’ New Premises,
269 George-street, Sydney.
Notwithstanding the adverse opinions that
have from time to time been expressed with re-
gard to the financial results of the International
Exhibition, it must be admitted by all unbiassed
persons that the introduction of new capital,
fine art, and business enterprise, has been its
outcome in no small degree. To it the colony is
indebted for the settlement amongst us of repre-
sentatives of numerous important business es-
tablishments of European fame. The progress
of the capital has been stimulated by the conse-
quent demand for suitable premises, and the
people have benefited by enhanced opportunities
for procuring, at first hand, a class of goods
which, prior to the Exhibition, had been scarcely
heard of in Australia. Among the firms which
won honourable distinction at the Exhibition,
and has followed up its success there, is that of
Messrs. Thomas Webb and Sons, of Stourbridge,
England, whose superb exhibits, close to the
main entrance of the Garden Palace, constituted
a fit and striking introduction to the wonders of
art and industry accumulated in the building.
We illustrate on this page the branch premises
and splendid show-rooms, at 269 George-street,
Sydney, in which this enterprising firm continue
to carry on the Colonial business so happily in-
augurated at the Exhibition. At the closing of
the Garden Palace, Messrs. Webb and Sons
took premises in the city, but rapidly found that
under the able control of their manager, Mr. Grib-
bon, their business both justified and required
greater accommodation for the display of their
elegant stock; the building which we illus-
trate was secured, and underwent extensive
alterations and embellishments. On entering
the ground floor (some 60 x 30 feet) one is al-
most entranced at the multitudinous designs of
Wedgewoods’, Minton’s, Worcester, and other
wares (for which the firm are agents—Wedge-
woods’ sole agent for the Colonies), embracing
the most exquisite and costly designs, as well as
the most useful and every-day requisites, at
prices to suit both rich and poor. The first floor
is approached by a very handsome staircase,
quite in keeping with the rest of the establish-
ment, which throughout is fitted up in the very
best style, and reflects no little credit upon the
management (which is under the charge of A. F.
Mundy, in the absence of Mr. B. W. Gribbon),
both as regards the fittings and the taste in
which the goods are generally displayed. The
second floor is of about the same dimensions as the
ground floor, not less elegant in appearance, and
is almost exclusively set apart for the display of
extensive glasswares, embracing every de-
sign that it is possible for the art of man to do
vise, both in cut andjengraved goods; the great feature in
the former being their great purity and the total absence of
any tinge of colour, whilst the latter, the engraving (a good
portion of which is now done on the premises), as works of
art may bo termed unchallengeable. Amongst this class
we particularly notice, a very superb clarot-jug, valued at
500 guineas—others—others there are, however, to suit all classes of
society. The engraved and sculptured goods, although of a
more costly nature than the cut glass generally, are well
worth the attention of those who are in a position to hand
heirlooms down to their families. The Aurora vase, for exam-
ple, purchased by Sir Henry Parkes for the Sydney Art Gal-
lery, has never been excelled in these colonies or the mother
country. The magnificent exhibit of this firm at the Interna-
tional Exhibition not only caused the attraction but excited
the admiration of all classes of people from every part of the
world. Such has been the appreciation of the elegance of
the goods of this firm that their operations in Australia —•
at first confined to premises in Bond-street, Sydney—have
been extended to the capitals of Victoria and Queensland.
In Melbourne, a branch has been established at 41 Little
Collins-street, and at Brisbane the well-known firm of
Brookes and Foster have been appointed agents, while there
will, before long, be branches at Adelaide and Perth.
Messrs. Webb and Sons have already—brief as has been
the period of their connection with the colonies —attained
a business amounting to something like J 820,000 per
annum. As a proof of the high standard attained by them
in their manufactures, it may be mentioned that wherever
they have exhibited they have secured the highest awards.
At the Paris Exhibition they gained the Grand Prize.
Here, in Sydney, they carried off the only gold medal for
glassware, and at Melbourne secured three gold medals.
On entering the building, attention is irresistibly attracted
to a long row of plates ranged on a level with the eye, and
the tyro, admiring the beanty of the hand-painted designs
which embellish each plate, is apt to ask the cost of a ser-
vice of this or that pattern. It is somewhat staggering to
learn that each plate costa two or three guineas. They are
in fact, not mere table utensils, but works of art, and are
often purchased singly as such, and hung, like pictures, to
ornament a room. Such articles are, of course, out of the
reach of the ordinary housewife; but the visitor need not
be disconcerted by being thus met at the threshold with
evidences that Messrs. Webb and Sons minister to the
requirements and tastes of the wealthy and luxurious.
There are also laid out for inspection services which com-
bine elegance of form and design with moderate coat
Similarly, engraved jugs worth more guineas than they
weigh ounces, are flanked by graceful flagons, whose
beauty of form pleases every eye, and which are neverthe-
less priced so_ low as to suit persons of moderate means
The visitor quickly perceives that ha or she enjoys in such
an emporium the advantage of being able to select, at will
wares which, without being more expensive than such as
form the stock of common crockery shops, have been turned
out in ateliers where the highest taste and art—
primarily in designing the rarest and costliest chefs-d’&uvres
—pervade every department, and make their influence ap-
parent even in the cheapest articles. It is as easy to mould
even ordinary delf into a graceful as into a commonplace
form; but in a factory devoted mainly to the construction of
commonplace wares, the artistic talent, which alone is
competent to conceive elegance of form and beauty of
embellishment, is, as a matter of course, not employed
and low-grade goods are further degraded by being
modelled on tasteless ideals. On the other hand, in the very
cheapest articles which proceed from an establishment like
that of Messrs. Webb and Sons—unsurpassed in the cele-
brated Staffordshire pottery districts—where a regular staff
of are constantly engaged in creating things of
beauty, intended to find a place upon the tables of
monarchs and of those wealthy people to whom money
serves merely as a means of enjoying the exercise of taste
the influence of art penetrates every department and
makes itself apparent in the least, as well as in the* most
expensive, productions.
MESSRS. THOS. WEBB AND SONS' NEW PREMISES, 269 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.—SHOW ROOM, FIRST FLOOR.
MESSRS. THOS. WEBB AND SONS’ NEW PREMISES, 269 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.-SHOW ROOM, GROUND FLOOR.
EXTERIOR VIEW.
MESSRS. THOS. WEBB & SONS' NEW PREMISES,
269 George-street, Sydney.


T
HEA T E E
E O Y A L.
__ Mr. S. Lazar.
Trea5urer....,...,.,.,..,,,.. Mr, Q, L. Goodman.
raiS EVENING
Gilbert and Sullivan’s New jEsthetic Opera
PATIENCE.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, la.
menee at 8.
Doors open at 7.15, com-
O
PEBA HOUSE.
Lassee a*d Manager Mr. W. J. Wilson.
Stage Manager Mr. E. B. Boothman.
FRIDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 23rd,
LAST NIGHT OP THE SEASON.
COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT
to
Mr. W. J. WILSON.
NINE POINTS AT LAW,
in which
MISS MAESTON LEIGH and Mr. JAMES CARDEN
will appear.
An Interlude by the following ladies and gentlemen,
who have kindly given their services: —
Mr. ARTHUR GARNER
Mr, K. W. CHAPMAN
Mr. J. l. hall
Mr. STUART BOLTON
Mr. A. WEBSTER
Mr. HARRY LESION,
Miss MAGGIE OLIVER,
Mr. JAMES CARDEN
Miss MAESTON LEIGH,
Ac. &c.
To conclude with the screaming farce,
A LOTTERY TICKET.
Characters by Gentlemen Amateurs,
supported by the Ladies of the Company.
Box plan now open at Huenerbein’s, George-street,
where tickets for all parts of the House can be had.
Also, at Kirby’s. Pitt-street: Johnston’s, next Theatre,
nd Mr. Wilson, Opera House.
w
ILSON’S GEEAT WORLD CIECUS.
Boundless Enthusiasm pervades the entire audience
at the performances of this, the GREATEST SHOW
ON EARTH, while BREATHLESS, SPELLBOUND,
and DELIGHTED are the thousands of spectators
during the representation of
THE BRIGANDS OP BALONICA,
the grandest spectacle ever produced in any circus.
This gigantic Hippodrama of scenes, events, situa-
tions, tableaux, and the picturesque and beautiful ballet,
was all a positive success.
SWORD COMBAT between Gaspard and the
faithful Valet.
Terrific SWORD COMBAT between THEODORE
MATHEWS and HERR MAX SCHUMANN.
The daring and fearless flight over the cascades by
Mrs. ANNA WILSON, where she is thrown on the neck
of a horse in front of one of the brigands, is a scene of
adventurous horsemanship that has never been
realization of revenge is exhibited
in its fullest sense by Miss ANNIE MATHEWS on her
former lover, the Brigand Chief.
WILLIAM MATHEWS, as the faithful valet, brimful
of mirth, comic situations, and bravery.
THEODORE MATHEWS, who carries on hia
shoulders the entire weight of the piece, is simply so
grand in the ponrtrayal of his role that words cannot
be found to express the admiration of all beholders.
In addition to the Brigands of Salouica, a full Circus
Entertainment will be given that is for superior to any
over seen in Australis.
Como (if convenient) any night, or SATURDAY
AFTERNOON this week, and you will be well repaid
for your visit. In active prepetition,
THE GRAND CHRIisTMAS PaNTOMINB
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD.
Introducing 125 children into the Arena at one time.
No advance in prices.
EY MUSICAL UNION.
gYDN
GARDEN PALACE,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 2ifch Instant.
HANDEL’S “ MESSIAH.”
Under the Conductorship of
MR. SYDNEY MOSS, L.C.M.,
MME. GABEIELLA BOEMA,
MISS CHRISTIAN,
MR. ARMES BEAMONT,
ME. F. J. HALLEWELL.
Chorus and Orchestra, 200 Performers.
ADMISSION! Front Seats, 5a.; Second Seats, 3s. {
Promenade, la.
Family Tickets np to FRIDAY, 23rd instant, at the
following reduced rates :
Front Beats, in packets of five and up wards.... 4a. each
Second do. „ four „ ....2s. fid. ,
From the Hon. Treasurer, Mr. R. B. Tracey (Imperial
Fire Insurance Co.’s Office, Pitt-street), E. E. Cole,
the Principal Music Warehouses, and Grattan’s Press
Agency, 281 George-street.
W. MULLOE,
Hon. Sac.
gCHOOL OF AETS, BALMAIN.
IMMENSE ATTRACTION.
FOE ONE NIGHT ONLY.
MONDAY, DECEMBER 26th, 1881.
D’ARCY READ’S
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
introducing
LITTLE ANNIE BEAD,
the most wonderful child actress in the world. See bills.
BW TOWN HALL, MUDGEE.
"MAIN HALL open for Engagement after 15th
December next. First-class Scenery, Gas, seats for 600.
Applications to be forwarded to
EBENEZEE LOVEJOY,
Town Clerk.
N
T
HEATEE EOYAL, GEAPTON
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas ; lately patronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W,
ATTWATEE.
Proprietor.
ALBERT HALL, Brisbane, capableof aecommo*
dating 1300 people, is now available for theatrical
and other performances. The stage is over 50 feet in
depth, and has a neat proscenium. For terms, apply
DAVID LOVE, Brisbane.
ANE COVE AND HUNTER’S HILL
I REGATTA,
2nd JANUARY, 1?82.
ENTRIES FINALLY CLOSE
on
SATURDAY, 24th Inst., at Punch’s Hotel,
King-street, at 8 p.m.
All Sailing Boats manned by Amateurs.
GEO. S. ARTHUR,
Hon. See.
THE DARK NOVELTY PACKET contains
SIX BOOKS, 60 rich and rare scenes; red hot.
Post free, ss. the lot.
E. GRAVE UR, Bookseller,
196 George-street, Sydney,
rjiHE
METROPOLITAN
•THE METROPOLITAN LIEDEI
THE METROPOLITAN LI
THE METROPOLITAN LI
THE METROPOLITAN ]
THE METROPOLITAN 1
of MELBOURNE,
of MELBOURNE.
Conductor—Mr. JULIU
Will give a series
Concerts
CONCERTS
CONCERTS
DURING CHRISTMAS
in aid of the folloi
SYDNEY CHARI
SYDNEY CHARITII
The Sydney Ragged Sch
The Night Refuge and S
The Destitute Children’!
The Deaf and Dumb and
The Industrial Blind Ine
The female Refuge
The Honse of the Good
The Sydney Infirmary
The t>t. Vincent’s Hospi
The Hospital for Sick Cl
The Sydney Sailors’ Hoi
The National Shipwreck
Under the Patrom
Hl3 EXCELLENCY LORI
LOFTUS, K.C.
and aa influential Coi
consisting of
His Worship the Mayc
Sir Patrick Jennings
SirG. Wigram Allen
Sir William Manning
John Davies, Esq., C.l
J. Roseby, Esq., M.P,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., 1
G. H. Reid, Esq , M.P
and the leading residents
The following Artists have gen<
Valuable services, viz.:
Miss KATE SLATTERY
Miss CHRISTIAN
Mr. T. H. GUEN:
Mr. C. Q. 1
A fresh and varied Programme
tech occasion, and will include a f
admired
PART SONGS PART SONGf
PART S )NGS PART SONGS
Part songs part songs
Tho Programme will also contain 1
fiaem bora of the Liedertafel:—
Mr. S. ANGUS
Mr. S. MOYLE
Mr. J. KENDALL
Mr. G. F. SMITH.
FIRST CONCERT, BOXING D
GARDEN PALACE, 5
Admission, 2s. and 1
SECOND CONCERT, OLD
BUILDING, TUESDA
Admission, ss. and
THIRD CONCERT, OLD ]
BUILDING, WEDNESI
Admission—HALF-A.(
At each Concert there will'
and efficient
ORCHESTRA
ORCHESTRA
ORCM
Tickets at all the mnsio ant
EDWIN TOWLE, Hon. Sec
D. WRIGHT* Hon, Sec. Moti
TVTR. EDWIN PALMER,
■ITJ. CHARACTER OLD MAI
TRE, NIGHTLY.
MRS. EDWIN PALMER, HI
LEADING OLD WOMAN, AT LI
Tenby Honse, Wynyard Square.
THOMPSON’S COLOS
of the
ZULU WAR
Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, Decen
Christchurch to fo
S
IGNOR B 0 N J
MUSICAL DIEEC
Thompson’s Colossal Mirror of tin
Theatre, Dunedi
C ° N
BUC K I
CORNET.
Thompson's Colossal Mirror of th<
ANTHONY HORDERN
PALACE EMPOR
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
rjIHE GOOD TIME OP CHRISTMAS is coming, and with it t
In no part of Australia will they be found in su<
HAYMABXBI
We enumerate a few, but, for the want of space, cannot mer
EXHIBITION.
A Beautiful Assortment of Antique Lace in Great
JOUBEBT AND Ctt. BLACK GEOS GRAIN SILKS,
OF 1« YARDS PEE DRESS, 32g., Sis , S6s., 40j.
COLOURED DITTO, SAME AS BLACK (these are
for Christmas presents)
KID GLOVES FOE CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
LADIES* STRAW HATS FOE PICNICS
LADIES* DRESSES FOE PICNICS
LADIES* PARACHUTES FOE PICNICS
LADIES* BOOTS AND SHOES FOE PICNICS
WOEKBOXES FOE CHRISTMAS PRESENTS
DESKS FOR Do. Do.
PRETTY BAGS POE Do. Do.
DOLLS DRESSED FOR Do. Do.
TOYS FOE Do. Do.
CROCKERY WARE FOR Do. Do.
GOLD AND
Do. Do.
Do. Do.
Do. Do.
Do. Do.
Do. Do,
EVERY El
WAYS
GENTLEMI
GENTLEMI
GENTLEMI
A SAVING *
CHEISTMAI
CROSSLEY’
MAKING A:
THE AESTHETIC FA!
COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO, AND
ADDRESS IN FULL TO
ANTHONY HORDERN i
THE PALACE EM
HAYM A R K
(ONLY).
THE “PLUME” i
MOLESKIN TR
; UIUITC Aim QDIAII
THE “PFiODUCER"
EBADICATES Sf ;UEP and DANDEUW,
lnrt jorates, and Beautifies,
Induces a haalt hy action of the Skin wKS-
out the lx ritating effects caused by
similar pro parations, and Is pronounced
by both 'the Press and the Faculty to
be one ot the greatest boonf ever intro-
duced torfche Public,
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TRESSfig
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BT USING
H 8. BARROW & Co.'a
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Patience,” now in the fall tide of its success,
will consequently be shifted to tho Opera House, where
it will probably run for another two months—if not for
ever. The ability displayed by Mr. W. H. Vernon as
Bunthorno is very remarkable; and good as it was upon
the first night, he has since so polished up hia impersona-
tion that it is now little short of a study perfect in
every detail. Miss Alice Roes has also greatly im-
proved, and Signor Biilgreno Verdi’s loveliness is tho
theme at every milliner’s. Mr. Armes Beaumont is
gradually jumping into a new skin, and wo understand
that a new song is being written for him—the word*
this time by that gifted songstress, “ Australia,”
and the music by Signor Giorzi. Madlle Andtee
Navaro’s mediocre performance on the first night
has improved a little —a very little. She would
be generally more effective, however, did she not both
speak and sing bat ween her teeth. When, for instance,
she has to slap her extensive chest and exclaim, “Not
pretty, but massive," she not only overdoes the slapping
part, tut brings oat the words in a long-drawn hiss
from between her eve-teoth (pretty ones, we mnst
admit), thus: " Nort p-pp-roetee ba at mes-sif.”
This doesn’t go down with tho " gods." So
ifew of them, you know, have been on the
■continong. In her concluding upper notes, also, it is
remarked that Miss Navaro fails to concentrate herself,
and in her wild efforts to be effective, bat too often
£ resents the audience with quite a bunch of keys,
[iss Fanny Liddiard has made great strides, and
devastates the human heart nightly. She looks a
positive picture; and when she hugs the dragoons in the
second aet, vengeance gleams in the eyes of the male
portion of the dress-circle, and sobs of despair are
wafted from the pit to the gallery and sadly echoed
there. The attitudes— hopelessly love-sick and consum-
mately utter—of Mis« Bessie Royal, create great
amusement nightly. Johnny Forde is great as f he
Majah, and Lilian too sweet as Saphir.
• • •
Mr. Gamer takes a benefit on Saturday, at the
Royal, when after the first act of “ Patience." he will
deliver an oration of breathless interest. Arthur lives
down Dawes’ Point way, and we have heard him, when
on our matutinal journey for a threepenny " tub,"
rehearsing the speech whilst shaving. This is how it
begins:—“ Ladles and gentlemen,—My name is Garner,
I was christened Arthur. Do yon consider it a pretty
name ? I have been away from you, but hare returned
—bringing back not only Arthur Garner, but a pair of
iwhiskers which oven my enemies admit are consnm-
imately quite. The most celebrated authorities on hir-
sute appendages consider that the shape I wear them
.could not be improved upon I think so too. Bat
Vbeing ever willing to sacrifice myself for the public bene-
fflt, I will be happy to avail myself of any hints as to
•change of shape or length thrown out by the dress-
•circle. I cannot allow the pit, however, to have a
•voice in this matter." Joking apart, Mr. Gamer
deserves well of the theatrical pnblio of New South
Wales, since he has done more by the pieces produced
under his management to raise the standard of the
drama in Australia, than any entrepreneur who has ever
visited the colonies. We trust, therefore, that hia
benefit will be largely attended, and that the enthusiasm
of the audience will, after’ the speech, be sufficiently
accorded to such a display of wisdom and whiskers.
• * •
This being the last notice we shall write this
year, on the Theatre Eoyal, it will not be out of place
to say a word respecting thel unvarying courtesy of Mr.
Goodman, the treasurer, and to congratulate the
management upon possessing in their employ a gentle-
man who looks so closely after their interests. The
Staff of ushers, etc., has been changed—wo of course
really don’t know why—and tho new crowd perform
their functions with civility and dispatch.
** * *
Mr. and Mrs. Carden, at the Opera House,
■conclude their season on Friday night, and then they
go to Grafton. They are both worthy people, but they
cannot be called great artists in the special acceptation
of the term. Mr. Carden, however, possesses consider-
able power, and Miss Murston Leigh displays in her
acting much artistic refinement. The pieces they
have produced in Sydney failed to prove very attrac-
tive-loss en account of their intrinsic literary merit,
-than the manner in which they have been performed.
Mr. E. B. Boothtosn, Mr. and Mrs Holloway, and Mr.
Modus are all excellent and painstaking actors, but they
are not particularly adapted to the requirements of
high-class comedy to be performed in a metropolitan
theatre, while Mias Julia Peatherstoue, who, in private
life no doubt shines like a new billy, could not be called
by anyone—except her relatives —a powerful performer.
• • •
In tho last piece produced—" A Wife’s Trial,”
which is a palpable adaptation from the French—the
company havs succeeded better, the Henri Desart of
Mr. Carden being a little triumph, while Miss Marston
Leigh scored a legitimate success as Hortense. The
piece is one of great power, and its masterly construc-
tion smacks, strongly of D’Eanery and Nagao. Mr.
Wilson, the well-known and universally popular lessee,
takes his benefit on Friday (to-morrow), when there will
be a grand bill, and Mr. J. L. Hall will appear in the
course of the evening, and sing some of hi* outrageously
funny songs. This will ba a capital opportunity for
Mr. Wilson’s friends to roll up, and by their presence
on this occasion testify to the benefleiaro’s worth as a
man, and talent as an artist.
** * *
At the Gaiety Theatre, the “ Black Flag ”Ijtill
continues to ran merrily, and the attendance is good
nightly in every part of the house. Mr. J. D. Cox, the
lovsly and amiable treasurer of this popular little
house, took hie “ ben.” on Wednesday night, but the
event occurred too late to be chronicled this week.
“The Green Lanes of Old England" is in active re-
hearsal, and it is contemplated to put on “ Michael
Strogofl ” as soon as the necessary preparations are
concluded. Mr. A, Dampier is t« play, of course, the
muscular courier.
• • •
It is also announced that a distinguished literary
gentleman is writing a play for Mr, Dampier. The
scenes will be laid, we understand, in Australia, India,
Norway, China. Dubbo, Now Caledonia, and Honolulu,
and as the incidents of the drama will be selected from
the most startling adventures of the author, a thrilling
production may be looked forward to. The title of the
piece will probably be •* 11 ”
** * *
Messrs. Templeton and Ceschina have taken
the Victoria Hall for a term, and will produce a bur-
lesquo entitled “ Alodln and Company Limited,” The
extravaganza, the management inform us, has been
funnily localised, bnt the name of the author is kept a
secret. Rumour, however, points to Dr, Beatty, the
bright particular star of the Half-crown Wilkies.
The piece, which is by Alfred Thompson, was au enor-
mous success at the Gaiety Theatre, Loudon,
beautiful music being a great attraction. The day bill
•of the Victoria Hall peopls is rather fanny, and from It
•we learn that in tho piece figures Kokliko (Mr. Martin
Hagon),
“ A sly toy-mer«hant, who deals, if you please,
In members votes, and newly-made J.P.'s."
And also a Princess Valentine (Miss Jennie Horan),
“ A charming gynrl, up in one word yon sum her.
As Shakespeare deftly wrote—she is a nnmmer."
Mr. Templeton enacts one Ozokeut,
*• A feeble monarch In a feeble State,
Whisk you’ll believe is just his portar-ate,"
two vile puns, for the preparation of which the author
deserves to have sung to him, with a bassoon accom-
paniment, Australia's “ Last Hours." Mias E. A. Lam-
bert will play Aladdin, and Mr. Stuart Bolton, tho
Remembrancer—
“ A man of wisdom, known to Sydney folks.
Who thrives through laughing at his master’s jokes."
A fall band has been engaged, together with an efficient
chorus, so the little piece promises fairly,
** * *
Some Melbourne items. —Musgrave’s London
Opera Comique Company are playing to excellent houses
in the Opera Houss. “Les Cloches de Comeville "is
now on the boards, and the company have done much to
retrieve the reputation of this Opera from the qaeer
odour of a multitude of bad and indifferent renditions.
Every little troupe tries the pretty piece, and the resalt
Is notorious. But Masgrave has inaugurated a new
era. Nellie Stewart, as Germaine, is—well, quite too
nice for anything. Acting, singing, and general make-
up simply perfect. Wallace os Gobo, and Harwood as
the Bailie, are incomparable. Bnt tho success of tho
piece is undoubtedly Fred. Marvin as Gaspard. That
gentleman seems to have made the part his special
study. At the conclusion of the chateau scene he is re-
called nightly, amid deafening applause, such as it is
not often the lot of a colonial play-goer to hear or au
actor to experience. The undoubted merits of this
bright little opera seem in a fair way to be recognized
again Fred Marshall, at the Princess Theatre, is
drawing well in “ Blow for Blow," under Pollock’s
genial managership. His Charley Spraggs is as comical
and realistic as ever. Frank Cates’ gentlemanly acting
is commending itself to general favour The panto-
mime season is just now the trouble. “Diok Whitting-
ton" is billed for both the Princess and Bijou, white
“ Olivette ” will be played daring the Christmas week
by the Mnsgrave Company.. ..That ever verdant favour-
ite, our friend Fred. Maocabe, shows at St. George’s
Hall, and George plays at tho Royal in “ Tho
Female Detective."
** * *
Mrs. G. B. W. X. Y. Z. Lewis, of the Melbourne
Bijon, took a benefit the other evening. Tho Eyrhino
Herald, in announcing the event, says: —” Mrs. Lewis
takes a special benefit at the Bijou this evening, with
“London Assurance," in which Mr. Reeve is to play Sir
Harconxt, and Mr. G. A. Walstab, Dtzrle. There is no
question that, in this character, Mr. Walstab is only
second to Charles Matthews among the actors who
have performed it on the Melbourne stage." There is a
bond fide ring about this par. that is unmistakable, and
this will become more particularly apparent when it is
remembered that about three weeks ago The Bulletin
announced the fact that Mr. G. A. Walstab had joined
the staff of the Melbourne Herald.
** * *
Tho Mendelssohn Quintette played recently two
nights in Maitland under engagement to Mr. Percy
Filz-Stubbs. Crowded houses were the result, although
when they showed on their own account, the ghost!
wouldn't even hobble. Qtii expliquera ce mystere ?
** * *
Here, now, is a little histrionic hash : — Tilly
Lake, who is great on the light fantastic, makes her
reappearance in Sydney this Christmas ; lima de
Marika is on her way to Melbourne; the Surprise
Ministrels have been showing at Wallerawang; and
Adelina Patti drives a four-in-hand. The greatest
living tragedian is Mr. Defriea; and the Only By an has
been engaged for the policeman at tho Royal.
** * *
Last Friday night we attended a performance
of the Lytton Amateur Dramatic Club, which gave a
complimentary show at the Victoria Hall, and as It cost
nothing to go in, tho place was unpleasantly crowded.
The Lyttons may be best described as a band of young
commercials who have gone histrionically wrong. They
are all excellent young men, however, and look clean
and smell nice. Tho sobriety they exhibit is commend-
able, and they make a point of polishing tho backs of
their boots as well as the fronts. It will thus be seen
that their claims upon the favour of the public are by
no means insignificant.
tt * # „ *
The club has only one piece—Palgrave Simp-
son’s "Time and the Hour." We don’t know who is
responsible for the choice of this dramatic monttrosity,
but should imagine it was tha parish sexton. The play
is not only out of date by reason of his threadbare plot
and ludicrous sentimentality, bat as a sample of
dramatic construction it is -beneath contempt. The
dialogue is strained, and the humour lugubrious. It is
a piece that ought to be played in a churchyard illu-
minated by corpse lights, with ghonls in the orchestra,
and an introduced ballet danced by dead libel-case jury-
men. The acting was, on the whole, creditable, con-
sidering the price charged for admission—but tho
hilarity of the gallery during the representation fre-
quently bordered un the uproarious, thus marring the
effect of some of the actors’ most artistic utterances.
For instance, when George Aylmer embraced Lucy
Fairfax there was a chorus of prolonged “Oh’s! " and
" num-niums;" while the valonrous utterances of
Charles Franklin were received with derisive “boo-
boos.” Mr. Ben. Palmer, who appeared to bo lost
inside a very large suit of clothes, played Sir Philip
Deverell with much originality; and Mr. La Martiuiore
was transcendental as Franklin, the banker. Mr. A. G.
Hunt was really capital as Mendlicott, a money-lender;
but Mr. A. N. Nunn, who enacted Chawles, was too
suggestive in his appearance of
“ A Farmer and Co. young man.
At Hordern and Sons young man,
A pushing young particle.
What’s the next article, ’
Peapes and Shaw young man.”
• * *
Tho ladies were professionals and strangers to us;
though no doubt each one ia a Lady Macbeth in her own
country. The waits were long and numerous; but
considering it is Christmas time, they cannot be termed
unseasonable. The performance appeared to be much
appreciated by the actors’ relations, and the applause
was loud and frequent. We enjoyed ourselves very
much—between the acts.
** * *
The Metropolitan Liedertafol, of Melbourne,
who ore the happy possessors of a more than Australian
celebrity, give a concert in the Garden Palace, Sydney,
on the afternoon of Boxing Day, and two others in the
old Exhibition building, on Tuesday and Wednesday
evenings. The programmes will include many of tha
most admired songs of the Licdertafel, and solos by
that most accomplished of concert singers. Miss
Christian. Miss Kate Slattery will also appear at the
performances, which will be conducted by Mr. Julius
Herz. The Metropolitan Liedertafel is far and away
the strongest aud best musical association south ef the
line, and the scene on a *- ladies night," when perhaps
a thousand people, all in full evening dres«, assemble at
one of their charming concerts in Melbourne, is almost
unexampled in the colonies.
»# # *
The Sydney Musical Union will give, on Satur-
day, at tho Garden Palace, a performance of the
“ Messiah.” Special efforts have been made to make
this a performance of more than ordinary ment. Tho
services of Madame Boems, Miss Christian, Mr. Armes
Ssaumout, and Mr. Hallewell have been secured for the
principal solos, and a chorus and orchestra comprising
the best available talent, will bring out tha grand
effects of this majestic oratorio.
** * *
Balmain, on Boxing-night, ia not to ha forgot-
ten. _ Mr. D’Arcy Read, Mrs. Read, and our dear little
Annie, appear at the School of Arts in a show which
ought to draw like a throe-horse-power Ulster. The
versatile talents of these performers are too welllknown
to need recapitulation at our bands. It the elements
are favourable, we shall risk the perilous journey to
Darling-street, and be in the fun.
** * *
Now that Christmas has come, with its geese
and its head-aches, and plum-pndding, things theatrical
are very lively indeed. Thexe arc pantomimes and
rumours of pantomimes, and all the places of amuse-
ment are advertising for “ one hundred ladies,” while
promises in the “ ads." of unlimited legs and limelight
alike dazzle the guileless rustic. The preparations for
the holiday piece at the Royal have been made on a
gigantic scale, and Dick Stewart has passed the last
three weeks_ mixed and mingled with hundreds of
amazons Without being indiscreet, we may state that
Richard has gone in extensively for armour. (Leave
not out the “r,” eccentric comp., or we are lost!) The
title of the pantomime is “Sindbad the Sailor," the
opening of which was written by Strahau, of the
Dramatic Authors’ Society, and has been “ localised ’*
by a gentleman in spectacles. Of the literary portion
of the work it is impossible for ns to speak, nntil we
receive the book, but from what we know of the cast,
aud have gleaned of the preparations, wo are certain
that as a spectacular display, Richardson's show—we
mean Richard's show—will be more than ethereally
quite.
* # #
The male portion of the cast is very strong,
indeed—including as it does the names of Richard
the Rejuvenescent, Johnny Hall, Bland Holt, and Harry
Leston. All these ore low comedians of a very high
order; and when wo state that each one introduces a
speciality of hia own, it may be confidently anticipated
that a good grin is in store for the audience. Johnny
has got a lidiculous song with a chorus of “ Chor-li 1"
which last word he aims at tho gallery and “ slings" at
the pit iu such a manner as to elicit crowing of an up-
roarious d?scription. In women, the piece is not quite
so strong, bnt the ladies oro prettier than any of the
men, except Bland. Maggie Oliver is once more to
anpear in silk tights, Lena Edwin in a blonde wig,
Maggie Stnart in red and silver, and sweet Theresa iu a
glittering garb of cerulean hue and a pair of shoes
which alone should draw the stalls until Easter.
Wilson’s Cirous.
John Wilson ia responsible for a good dtssL
Since ho brought his show here, all the children say thalt
they would sooner go to the circus than go to Heaven.
His new equestrian drama, “The Brigandaof Halouica,”
ia thrilling. Tho characters fight dasporately—on
horseback; make love furiously—at fall gallop ; con-
spire secretly—at a brisk trot. Th'j Brigands have
nothing terrible about them, though. Serially, they
are the mildest mannered man that over sat on a libel
case or took a Town Hall contract. The piece is nightly
received with yells of applause, the clapping being eo
groat that they have to perform Mass at St. Francis’
in dumb show. All the horses display good breeding
enough to do credit to a Government Ho us® reception,
and'the agility of tiro various acrobats is as startling rs
the Premier’s late refusal of the testimonial. Mr. Max
Schumann introduces a splendid horse fro»a the stud of
a local Sir Joseph Hawley, and after putting her
through a variety of tricks, concludes with the follow,
ing extraordinary fait. Three horses are brought
into the arena and ranged side by side, aud then Max
makes his appearance with his thoroughbred pupil,
which is, of course, the apple of his eye. The colt, at
a signal from his master, careers thrice around the
circle, and then makes an astonishing bound clear over
the backs of the three other horses with as much
apparent ease as a member of Parliament gets shares
in a coal mine, and much more creditably. Several
well-known owners and breeders of racehorses, on
being told of the feat, pronounced it an impossibility,
but on tho first night good-naturedly consented to be
present to see it fail. They were to much taken by
surprise that they positively drivelled—champagne.
We could make this notice of the circus as long
as “Paul and Virginia" or an Express leader without
exhausting the attractions of the tent; but we will
content ourselves with advising our readers to go and
sea all the marvels themselves. With the coming new
year the great World Circus departs, and so we have
but to say, in the immortal words of our very own Mrs.
Jarley, “ walk up while there is yet time," aud tack on
to it the inspired lyric of tho immortal Slum :
“ If we had a donkey wot wouldn’t go
To Wilson’s Great World Circus show.
Wouldn’t we wollop him—no Inol no I
Those nose— wo mean noea— are not straight. They
a"e ironical, •
“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
The Parramatta amateur “ Pinafore” party has
collapsed, because some of the unco guid don’t approve
cf the performance Mies Ada An hurst (Lester), a,
charming young actress, well-known c-.u the colonial
stage, and who will be specially remembered in con-
junction with her preceptor, Mr. Wybert Reeve, was
drowned in the Clau Macduff. Her sister, Miss
Alice Akhurst, and her father, who was a
London wine merchant, also met with a watery
grave on the same occasion. The bodies of tlio
two sisters were found within a short distance of
each other, and were conveyed to Keusal-Grcen,
London, for interment A circus proprietor has,
according to the Gundaoai Times, gone insolvent.
This comes of keeping trick hoiEes'which can only do
one trick, viz., eating their heads off IVIr. Charles
Massey, scenic artist at Brisbane Theatre Royal, died
of apoplexy on Friday evening. Before adopting the pro-
fes-ion of a scenic artist, Mr. Massey served in the Maori
war in the ranks of the armed constabulary, and had also
seen bush exploration service in Australia. He was an
honorablegentlemau, audleaves many friends... Mr. Har-
kins has purchased the sole right of performing “ The
Colonel ’’ in the Australian colonies Dr. Lynn
has been performing at Herbertoa tin mines. His was the
first show that has ever been on the field. The finan-
cial result was satisfactory, £l6O being taken in a fort-
night The graves of Marie St. Denis an l Charles
Yiner (Vincent, the husband of Miss Cleveland), of
Melbourne, are sadly out of repair Ada Ward feared
to face another English winter The Lynch Family
of Bellringers have played at Casino two nights to very
good houses. The beUringing and ventriloquism as-
tonished the Casino natives. The company are now in
Sydney, but not being able to obtain a suitable hall, go
South, ringing the .changes at Wollongong, Kiama
(where, no doubt, the ghost will walk), and so on to
Melbourne Again wo hear Alice Oates is coming to
Australia Ella Carrington’s Stray Leaves Company
played to poor houses at Armidale Mr. Charles
Turner and his agent, Mr. Wilson Le Conteur, have
parted company We have a line from Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Turner (Miss Annis Montague). Dunedin
didn’t go much for opera, but Christchurch and other
places did. On the whole, the tour has be n more than
Buocesiful, and it has not only given our friends money,
but health. The c >mpany are busy preparing two new
operas, with which to astonish Sydney again shortly.
Some good additional vocal talent has bsen picked up
on the tour, and our very own Mias Josephine Deakin
has made great progress and “ struck oil ’’in several
operas Clara Stephenson Co. open at Dubbo Boxing
Night The divine Lotti Wilmot still lectures in NZ.
Hasn’t cowhided anyone for more than a month, and
has secured a hall in Christchurch for a term. She
calls it “The Progressive Lyceum," and is advertising
for soloists and chorus in the local papers
From certain statements made in the Border Watch
(Mount Gambier, S.A.), we perceive that Lewis and
Woo fe’s Mastodon Minstrels have dropped in for a bit
of bad luck. Tfce proprietors, however, got safely over
the border Madame Pauline Eita, an operatic artisto
of considerable repute,, has arrived in Melbourne by
the s.s. Orient The Musgrove and Williamson opera
troupes (including Miss Alice Bees, Miss Patty Laverne,
Mr. Merviu, and other leading artists) will appear in
a round of favourite operas, including “ Olivette."
•« Madame Favarf," and “ Billce Taylor,” at Adelaide
Theatre Eoyal, commencing in February Louise
Pomeroy benefited at Wellington, N.Z., in “Winter’s
Tale." J. K Emmett has a new play, “Fritz among
the Gipsies." Marian Willis Company open at Vic-
toria Theatre, Newcastle, Saturday u ! ght, in “Behind
the Curtain, or Saved from the Flames.” Our old
friend, “Syl"Eyan, of panoramic fame, plays police-
man in the Theatre Eoyal Pantomime. Of course, Syl
will make it a “taking" part. Horry Wallace ia also
engaged for fumy business Mr. W, E. Chapman is
organising an opera company, which wiil include Miss
Kate Thayer, and several other celebrities They
open at the new theatre in Geelong at Christmas
The Gunnedah Amateur Dramatic Society, assiited by
Mr. W. H. Kelly, gave a show on Thursday night last.
“ The Charcoal Burner " was put on, and drew a very
poor house Cary himself is playing G-ispard tho
Miser, in “ Les Cloches." The performance is spoken
of as being “massive and concreta.” Leake doing
well at Wellington, K Z, in “ My Partner.” Frank
Towers and company, now at the Cape, ho -o to reach
Australia next September, Bent o»d Batcbelder's
Minstrels, at latest dates, were performing in the town
of Nelson, N.Z Robson, “tragedian, humourist,
and musician" (thunder!) opened at tho Temperance
Hall, Dunedin, N.Z., on Dec. 12th Tho “ Australian
Comedy and Opera Bontfe ” Co. .have done a season at
Goulburu. Houses not even as good as the perform,
ances— *' Pinafore” nights excepted. “The Educated
Pig and Tho Armless Lady," unfortunately arrived on
their second night, and engrosted the attention of tho
local Bunthorncs Miss L>dia Uowarde and Mr. Harry
1 Shopporson ore in town. What will NZ. do without
them ? Mr. J. Burns, formerly with Eayner’s Pano-
of the American War, as violinist, recently died
of teiier, and was buried at Petermaritzburg, South
Africa...... Mr. W. J. Holloway and company open at
Ballarat this week.
* # #
John Stetson has arranged with Modjeska
for on American tour next season Sara Bern-
Ihardt has promised to appear as Lady Jane
in Mdlle. Arnaud's tragedy of that name.
Before Patti started on her American tour her
made the following trifling demands Ho asked
for jtJ- 0,000 down in advance from the maker of what-
ever. tfip-no Patti used on the platf jtm at her concerts.
He aaft-ad Sarony, the photographer, £4OOO for the
exclusive privilege of posing her pictorially, ana £3OOO
and a percentage for the right to dispose at her
1 concerts of books of words. These voracious
terms frightened even tho Yankee speculators
Sims Beeves, fot t the first time in his life, made a failure
when singing at tho Town Hall, Newcastle, England.
The audience had their money returned Tilly
Andrews is with a variety company known as “ Smith
iiud Mestayer’s Reconstructed Tourists.” A disgust-
fug melodrama, by M. Alexis Bouvier, entitled “Mai.
fceurenx Pauvres,” has been brought out at the Theatre
Au Chateau d’Eau, and has met with a success which
must be regarded as a bad sign of the times. All the
(details are “ unfit for publication.” Madame Jenny
Lind Goldschmidt has taken up her permanent
residence in Naples One of the songs in Burnand's
new burlesque, “Whittington," at the Gaiety, is
'< Where did yon get your trousers from, and did thev
y° u D’Oyly Carte has secured “ Youth "
f or America Mrs. Scott-Siddons appeared on
Nnvomi 'W 2nd in a play called “ Queen and Cardinal,"
b„ Mr wlter Raleigh, at the London Haymarket. It
was an complete, and absolute frost A now
theatre is in 'r ‘Kirse of erection in London. It will bo
managed by M' Marius the original Capitoine de
Merimac....„Col. „ ' £ Mapleson recently engaged a
prima donna called ***}* , ohe ral f
her friends in France , V ore her contract but
Mapleson posted after l , a 8
she was trying to make a u n « C o° r °t t lG
Grand Opera, and made hex ■’
” Carados," of the Referee, .*5 JP?
Scott-Siddons’ Anne Boleyn iu 9 art ? lca ’
at tho London Hajmarket, says : if m
to have improved by travel, It, of l as , a *? r
fault that she had to tumble down a„ c i* fJ 10
first act; to tumble down again at tv th ?
second ; to faint and fall once more in the 'earth, and
to drop on her knees in the fifth; but th re was JJO
good reason why she should fling herself abo. .. as . .
did, and throw away all the refinement with w ln
the past she has been credited Madame Kish. r -,V a
going to be Restoried to Drury Lane next year, l .
has already given the sleep-walking scene from “ Mao v
beth” in English. Now she has resolved to play the
part in its entirety.
It has almost been forgotten that years aero tho
late Mr. M. Fitzpatrick, M.L.A., was one of the fore-
most cricketers of our colony.
• have keen holding an “ old English fair **
in Melbourne. Anthony Hordern and Sons have been
holding a modern Australian fair at their Palace Stores,
Uaymarket. The scene in their establishment any hoi r
and any day in the week ia one of the sights of Sydney,
and must bo regarded as a great commercial triumph.
The cocoas commonly.sold are mixed with starch,
which renders them thick, heavy, and indigestil 1 3. (jad-
bury s Cocoa Essence is genuine, and is therefore a
light and refreshing beverage like tea and coffee.
EXTRAORDINARY HIPPIC FEAT AT WILSON’S CIRCUS.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Chief Justice Martin has just discovered that
oar so-called silent! motors are “ monstrous snorting
deformities.” It took Sir James two years of calm,
deliberate study to grapple with this, and even then he
had to be shot head first out of an eighteen-penny cab
before he could fairly realise the situation. We knew
it all the time, and would have pointed it out distinctly,
but we had other libels on hand, and of course the
thing was shelved. His Honor also remarks that the
tram lines are an abridgment of the good old common
law right to the free and convenient use of the Queen’s
highway; and furthermore, he states the trams them-
selves are a “ perfect nuisance.” This is scarcely fair,
—Chief Justice Martin forgets he was a poor man once
himself, and he should therefore know that everyone
cannot afford to keep a coachman. Anyway, we can’t,
and we often find the cars a blessing.
• * •
The heroism of Sir Philip Sidney has been
equalled by the flashness of a garotter in Pentridge
Stockade. Sam. Piunigan was administered his instal-
ment of twenty-five lashes on the 14th, and when the
performance was over, was offered a glass of water.
“ Give it to Upjohn ” (the executioner), he said; " he’s
exhausted.” Finnigan is certainly the most considerate
criminal we have heard of since the man who apologized
to the hangman for the trouble ho was about to give
him, and offered to Change places. And this raises the
question: What’s the good of flogging burglars ?
Their skin soon gets thick, aud then they rather like
it. It would be a far better plan to trust to the moral
influence of packets of tracts placed in the safe or on
the plate chest. Or, better still, put a musical box ia
his way, that would start playing ‘'Home, sweet home,”
or " Put me in my little bed.” These tunes would
awaken long-buried associations in his breast. Ha wou’d
think of bis innocent childhood, and his dear old
mother; and then you could go straight up and capture
him, and lead him along the forsaken path to Sunday
school the very next day. Hallelujah 1
# # . *
He was a scrupulous man in his own small way,
and having previously promised to “ sheet it home to
the prisoner,” he asked to be [sworn after his own
fashion, and at the same time maintained ho was en-
titled to at least equal rights with a butter-headed
Chinaman. That seemed all fair and square to the
“ Binch,” and upon being asked how ho wished to take
the oath, the man with scruples said, “ Let me kiss a
copy of last Tuesday’s Evening Nooze.” That prisoner
got five years.
* • •
Poor old Pid.’s extraordinary remarks concern-
ing us in the Legislative Council, last week, would have
created some surprise in the minds of the general
public, had it not been so painfully evident that it
required a desperate effort on the hon. gentleman’s
part to make it apparent to the universe that ho was
still alive.
« « •
“ Will you please sign this warrant, sir P” said
the sergeant of police to a newly-made justice, at
Nuggety Gully, last week. “Don’t you go a pokin’
fun at me, sergeant,” was the reply Half-
an-hour afterwards, in the bar-parlour of an hotel, that
magistrate might have been seen, coatless, with beads
of perspiration welling up on his forehead, affixing the
emblem of hope to a sheet of blue foolscap, his horny
hand guided by two strong men.
• • •
The Melbourne Evening Mail states that
“ Christina C. Ulbrandt, a religious maniac, was charged
with wilfully trespassing upon the finances (sic) of
Messrs. M'lvor and Lincoln, clothing manufacturers.”
Evidences of the festive season ore to be found, at this
juncture, in the court, the camp, the lock-up, and the
newspaper office.
• • •
“Well, how goes it?” said one commercial
reporter to another, as they met in the Central Markets.
•* Very multy,” was the reply; “I’ve only done a side
of bacon and a bag of potatoes.” “Then,” said the
other, with a chuckle, “ I lick you by a whole cheese, a
dozen of cucumbers, and a case of cherries.”
There is a capital opening at the present time, in
Sydney, for a writer who will accept payment for his
copy in Christmas cards, illuminated almanacs, and
tinned plnm-puddings.
* « »
At a shed on the Murrumbidgee there was a
number of Qneanbeyan shearers, who, so far as chaff
went, had it all their own way. However, one day a
Wagga man ventured to say : “ I saw a statement in
The Bulletin to the effect that there were three hun-
dred and sixty-five marriageable girls at Qneanbeyan,
and only twelve men able to support wives.” Then
there was a general laugh at the Quennboyan fellows,
but one of them proved equal to the occasion, for he
stood up and said : “ I saw it, and it is true; I am one
of the twelve. There’s only eleven there now.” Ho is
known in that shed as “ one of the twelve,” and they
never chaff a Qneanbeyan man there now.”
• • #
It waa tempo di valse; that is, there were
“three in a bar.” Two were rival editors from the
“ oldest city,” Parramatta, and the third was a master
tailor. The latter and one of the former gents had
“ kissed the baby twice,” when the rival observed:
“T’see there’s a devil of a lot of opperzishin, and
times are that bad now that a feller can scarcely keep
his nose above water.” This was the other rival’s cue.
and, not being in the shout, he confidentially informed
the barmaid in his loudest tones that some people
would be better] off if they didn’t keep their noses so
much above water mixed with brandy. The girl said
they mustn’t fight there, so they stepped outside and—
thought better of it.
• • •
Writing to our little friend, the Echo, one
“J.Q.H.,” Inglewood, Victoria, says Sir, As the
Hon, Sir Henry Parkes is about to revisit the scenes of
his youth and early manhood, I venture to think the
republication of the following verse 1 ?, written by him-
self a few days before he sailed away from his native
land, would be very appropriate.” Now, “J.G.H.”is
evidently a villain of the deepest dye, and when he
wrote the above, could only have had one of the follow-
ing views in his mind’s eye He either wishes to bring
the Premier’s grey hairs with sorrow to the grave, or
he wants a job in the Lands Department. Of
course, the Hunter street Bantam fell into the
trap, and actually reprinted about sixteen solid stanzas
of one of the most drivelling—but, hold on—here’s a
sample:—
“THE EMIGRANT’S FAREWELL.
"(From the Village Magazine.)
11 1 go, my native land, far o’er
The solitary sea
To regions where the very stars
0£ Heaven will strangers be.
“ In some untrodden wilderness
Of Australasia’s land,
A home, which man has here denied,
I seek at God’s own band."
Anyone can see that the poet who hymn’d that lot had
a bad attack of jim-jams at the time, and his ears were
plugged with wool, or he’d know better than to run
Bft. 6in. into one line, and only 18in. into the other.
Alfred feels he has not lived in vain. His
*• reference to Liverpool-st, Darlinghurst, has had the
desired effect. The road is now receiving a new coat of
metal." While his hand is in he might treat all his
newspaper men to coats for Christmas. And give some
of them new coats to their stomachs as well.
• • «
Now this is Gospel truth. Two M.P.’s, who
had seen “Patience” on the “deadhead” system,
walked into Roberts’s private bar the other day, and
called for two “long sleevers ” After the first gulp
hi.d gone, the shortest of the “membahs ” observed to
the waiter in an “utterly too-too” tone: “Awl how
is it Mr. Rohardts doesn’t clothe you waitahs in white
linen suits for summah ?” “ I presume," replied the
“ waitah,” “ that you are one of the * wringers out ’ in
the Steam laundry!" Then the “ membah " said,
“ Jist parst up thim sanwidges,” and there the matter
ended.
• • •
They had an operatic “ shivoo ” at Singleton
lately, and this is the style the local Arous “ cricket"
slung his stuff In the next issue“ The audience was
small, the stage was small, and the number of per-
formers was limited. Miss Harconrt as Montana
possesses a very good voice ; Mr. Templeton as Bon Jose
was very good ; the acting of Mr. Stuart Bolton was very
good ; and Miss Lambert as Lazarillo was very good."
This is very good tor the Singleton Wagner also; but he
is wasting his sweetness on the desert air. Why doesn’t
he come to Sydney city, and do the musical notices
and groom his proprietor’s horse ? lie can earn 15s. a
week, and the hot-pea man in front has a special elate
for members of the literary staff.
• • •
“ They do things better in Melbourne.” For
instance;—“At the Hotham Police Court, William
Lander was charged with trespassing on the premises
of his wife, who was living apart." In the course of
the trial, it transpired the defendant merely Went to
rescue his girls from infamy, and we further learn ha at
last succeeded in bringing “one girl out of a China-
man’s bed," and he found another “ living in a Chinese
brothel at Sale ” What do yon think the authorities
did to William Lander P Gave him a suit of clothes
and a marble statue ? Made him M.P., and presented
him with an illuminated address and a season ticket for
Musgrove’s Opera Bouffe ? Sent him a £5 case of
Christmas grog, and make him a C.M.Q., or paid a
year’s board in advance at Menzies’ ? Not a bit of it.
They fined him 45., with £2 2ji. costs. And all this in a
Ker-ryish-tij nn land! Why doesn’t Judge Manning
go to Melbourne and give them ju&tice ?
• • •
Those who havo luxuriated upon the golden
strand of Coogoe will have noticed a loving couple—she
all streaming locks and tied-back foulard, he all double-
glass and stand-up collar—pacing daily for hours in
sweet communion with one another. When together—
" What to them is the world beside.
With all its change of time and tide?"
Not much! They loved—deeply, fondly, and fervently.
He had nothing but what he stood up in and thirty-bob
a week, which he had received as principal receiver and
general messenger in the office of a contemporary. She
had a yearning soul—all poetry and glamour—but the
venal dross she was in receipt of barely amounted to an
annual income of twenty sordid pounds. Yet, when
love is there, what matter if base riches are wanting ! It
being Xmas-time, samples were plentiful at the office ;
so ho resolved to make his love a present. The division
of the plunder having eventuated he found himself in
possession of a scented sachet, a Christmas card, and a
box of corn-plasters. The two former ho made up into
a parcel for his love ; the latter he put into paper for
his uncle in Smsex-street. To her ho wrote, in vorse—
thus:—
“ This little off'ring take, dear-ducky,
' And may your Christmas Bay bo lucky.
To give you this I long have panted.
This little gift you long havo wanted.
Oh, how I long to see my sweet.
The bright sand’s imprint of thy feet;
So meet me by the rocky cavern.
And one long spoon, you let, we’ll havo un.’’
To his uncle he wrote—” My respect for you is so great
that I cannot help entreating your acceptance of the
accompanying little gift. The sight of your feet have
caused me many a shudder." Tfco packets and letters
were addressed hastily and posted. . . . Next day
when he called at the old man’s store on the scent for a
ham he was bombarded with Christmas cards, and had
his head broken with a cratch. At the rocky cavern,
later in the day, ho was saluted with a shower of corn-
plasters and a hailstorm of opprobrium ; and as he felt
himself kicked by her brother and thumped by her
sister, it began to draw upon him that he had made a
trifling error in the addresses.
• • «
Per last English mail, we received from some
anonymous friend (probably Henniker Heaton, or Mrs.
Langtry) two volumes of a religious work, entitled
“NED KELLY; THE IEONCLAD BUSHEANGEK."
This triumph of literary art is printed at 41 Essox-street,
Strand,in an obscure spot called London,and the writer is
evidently a man possessed of an imagination which has
never known a day’s illness. His knowledge of Austra-
lian life-like his knowledge of tho Queen’s English-
being considerably hampered by limits, the novelist
transports Ned to London; his escape from “ Sydney
jail” being “accomplished by tho assistance of his girl,
one Jessie Appleby." Once at home, Ned immediately
mixed up with the nobility ; attended levees by day.
Duchesses’ balls by night, and any littlo lime ho had to
spare was devoted to boarding specie ships in the Chan-
nel. or plugging bullet-holes in the heads of bank
directors in tho city. Taking it on the whole, the work
before us is most enjoyable, and goes far to prove tSfo im-
mediate necessity for our building more gaols for Eng-
land. The cost of each number of “The Ironclad" is one
penny—and it would be dear at half the money.
• • •
Asa sample of British ignorance respecting one
of our brightest gems, wo clip the following from three
of the leading London journals:—
“It is well known that for many years Nod
Kelly had made himself notorious by a series
of crimes wholly incompatible with the oivili-
sation of the nineteenth century. Ned Kelly’s
celebrated steed, Marco Polo, is as well known at
the Antipodes as Dick Turpin’s Black Bess in
these islands.”— Teleoeaph, 7th July, 1881.
“It is notorious that the robbery of Mr.
Stewart's corpse was mainly performed by the
assistance of Ned Kelly’s brother, the captain
of what was neither more nor less than a pirate
ship.”— Times, July.
“ The history of Ned Kelly and his celebrated
black horse, Marco Polo, will ever live in the
recollection of the Australian public. The
deeds of Dick Turpin, and the performances of
Black Bess, are tame beside those of ‘ Ned and
his nag;’ in addition to which, Ned’s history is
true, and Turpin’s is pure fiction."— Peess,
July.
Fancy Dan., or Jim Kelly, in charge of a pirate ship,
ploughing the Strathbogie waves, or running the
blockade of the “Bat's Castle." Lastly, Nod Kelly’s
horse, Marco Polo, was an old grey ware named Kitty;
and yet we support an Agent-General who allows these
statements to pass unchallenged. It’s time the Premier
started homewards.
♦ • •
We had occasion, last week, to notice a weird
thing (but “very precious") of Henry's, which adorned
the first number of the Halp-ceown Wilkins, and we
trusted that the dear bard (whom in our hearts we
cherish) would have profited by our remarks, and
changed the stop of his metrical barrel-organ. But it
is not so. Mr. Halloian’s latest effort is a •* sonnet ’’
in the Echo, on “ The late Michael Fitzpatrick," and
it is a production which outshines in weirdness even
the most grisly productions of Alfred’s rhvmsters-
Here is all that a due regard for the future sanity of
our readers will permit us to quote:—
“ Bold, frank, and generous, with the ring of gold
That marks the true Hibernian, be he sunk
Amidst life’s miseries—be he even drunk
With fortune’s lavishness;—no hot and cold
Blows he,—firm in his love, and in his hatred bold,—
Who leads the ‘ forlorn hope ’ and does not funk—
Who saves his brother’s life— he is no skunk,
But the true, thorough man, nnbought, unsold."
When Henry wrote, “No hot and cold blows he," his
good nature got the better of his poetry; but still the
good-humoured, though slightly satirical allusion to
Wigzell is not an unhappy one, and for that transient
gleam of fancy we thank him. But when he sings that
the deceased gentleman was no “ skunk,” and didn’t
“funk,” though we appreciate the beauty of the ex-
pressions and the smoothness of the verse, we are
inclined to ask the bard if anyone has accused the late
legislator of either being the one or doing the other ?
Mr. Halloran is evidently not a success in the “In
Memoriam" line; and we, therefore, invite him to try
his hand at something lighter. The sorrows of a snail,
for instance, or tho miscarriage of a cockchafer.
* * «
There is a certain Domain howler wlio can never
commence his open-air services unless he is properly
wound up. The key by which he is wound is— rum.
• • #
A party went out to slay fish with torpedoes
one day last week. The amount of fish they slaughtered
may be guaged by the fact that directly they landed at
Watson’s late in the afternoon, they rushed the store
for—sardines,
* # #
A man from Port Macquarie writes to ns, and
says that, while staying at a holy coffee-house in Sydney,
he was robbed of his boots and a dicky, also bullion
and other proparty—all he possessed. The only clue,
he hid regarding the robbery was that parsons slept
in the rooms on either side of him. A detective was
called in, but when he heard the facts of the case,
stated that h« did not consider it was any use going on
with the enquiry.
« « •
Police Court lawyer, prosecuting for the police :
“You have heard, your Worships, the evidence of the
constable, a gentleman who bears upon his face the
indelible stamp of a truthful, humane, and intelligent
man,’’ 4c. 4c. Same advocate, prosecuting the con-
stable: “ Ycur Worships have heard the evidence of
my client as to the brutality of that demon in human
skin, constable Z. You have heard the policeman in
reply. Now look at him! and sigh to think such a
perjured fiend should be allowed to administer the law
in the public streets,” &c. &o.
• • •
The influence of malt upon the public press is
extraordinary. In a recent number of the Penny Alf.,
we are treated to the following thrilling item of intelli-
gence : —" Mr. Warby, of the Liverpool Arms Hotel,
last night received a box of Christmas presents from
some friends on the Clarence River. It comprised fruit,
eggs, &o , and, on opening the box which contained the
eggs, he imagined he heard a slight noise in the box,
and after a few minutes spent in inspecting, a chicken
picked its way out of one of the shells, to the immense
astonishment of Mr. Warby.” On reading this, we feel
inclined to paraphrase Shakspeare by exclaiming
“ O wonderful chicken, that can so astonish a Warby 1 *»
This is the kind of little social par. that “ takes well.”
It wants a little influence, however, to get them in;
and that influence is all the better when backed up by
beer, cheese, and biscuits, and a chanse for the Christ-
mas goose.
• » t
‘'Can you show me the way to the Supreme
Court?” said a country visitor to Bulletin man in
George-street, just by the Post Office. “Yes; but I
would rather not," was the grulf reply.
• « •
For elegance of diction and beauty of style,
commend us to the Orange Liberal. In writing of the
visit of the English cricketers, it says:—“(When Mr.
Moulder, captain of the local club, handed over the
cheque to Mr. Conway, on Wednesday night, the latter
was wall pleased; but the men who won both ways
forgot to ask their crestfallen entertainers, whom they
so unmercifully beat, whether they had a mouth or not."
This is mere childishness. Possibly, when the English-
men let their eyes rove over the twenty-two yawning
chasms that accompanied the cheque, they considered
that to ask the question would have been quite super-
fluous, if not impertinent.
• • »
A correspondent wrote to us yesterday as fol-
lows: —•“ Cannot your fearless and outspoken paper do
something towards putting a stop to the evil created
by the dancing hells which abound in Sydney ? When
will you launch out on this subject ?” To this, wo re-
plied by post card:-—“Our ‘fearless and outspoken
paper ’ will launch out on the abuse you mention when
there arc two funerals from King-street.”
• • •
Judge Docker has made his explanation in refer-
ence to his little difference with the jurymen, and it has
been accepted. What Mr. Docker says may be perfectly
true; and, since he is a Judge, we know a trick worth
two of doubting it—in print. We consider that, in
comparing a recalcitrant jury to Judas Iscariot, Mr. D.
betrayed a wisdom beyond his years—since Judas is
considered by the best authorities to be dead. About
his decease, we have personally no doubt whatever—for,
were he alive, we should certainly hear of him, either as
a libel-case juryman or an organiser of Bacchanalian pic-
nics.
#* t #
“ Are the children in?” enquired amusio master
of the lervant who opened to him the portal of a
honae in Darlinghurst Road. “ No, sir, they have gone
to Manly,” replied the girl. “ Then is your masier in ?”
“Yes, sir; but he’s engaged in the study.” “Indeed,
Then is the governess at homo ?” “ Yes, sir,” was the
demure reply; “ but she is with master."
• • '#
“Please Mum, I want to give a week’s notice,”
said a pretty Coogee parlour-maid to her mistress.
“Why so, Jane?” asked the lady of the house. Be-
cause master goes to England next Friday, and I never
could get on without gentlemen’s society.”
• • •
One very amusing Supreme Court “ gag,” when
newspaper libel cases are on the tapis, is “wholesome
fun.' What the public require in a newspaper, say
some learned gentlemen—who .know as much about
journalism, by the way, as a esTSel does of dactyllics—
is “ wholesome fun.” This, Mr. Barley stated, during
the hearing of the notorious Clontarf case, is to bo
found in Sydney Punch—and, ha might have added, the
Sydney Mail. If, however, Mr. Barley can see “fan”
of any kind, either wholesome or otherwise, in cither of
these publications, he has, it would seem, a stronger
perception of humour than any other person in the
community. Perhaps when Mr. Barley sees himself in
an inane (but complimentary) cartoon, dressed in a
Roman toga and armed with a "property” broad-
sword and a Babylonian shield, figure as a defender of
the Press (to order), he considers f hat to be “wholesome
funand, perchance, when he reads some of the
“ Meddler’s ” galimatias in which he is jocularly alluded
to, he is of opinion that the apex of humorous writing
is arrived at. Bat Mr. Barley (in common with other
“great” advocates) have to learn that those of the
public who do not employ them in their capacity as coun-
eel are rather less interested in them personally than
M'Elhone would be in the Dissertations of Confucius on
Abstract Theology. If the “ fun ” of the publications
we have mentioned be " wholesome fun,” we are quite
content to worry along on our own lines. We are not
willing to fill The Bulletin with balderdash, even to
please Mr. Barley. We invite that gentleman, how-
ever, to send us in a sample contribution of the "whole-
some fun ”he advocates, from his own pen. Wo will
then tell him what we think of it first, and, should it
not bo suitable for publication (a fact we confidently
anticipate),'we will give it to the charwoman for curl-
papers afterwards.
♦ ♦ »
It is a curious fact that the Press censors are
the Judges, and yet there is only one hand fide press-
man amongst the whole batch of big.wigs—Judge
Dowling. We have had experience recently in the
Half-Crown Wilkins of the efforts of a Judge in the
literary line. A:.d yet it is far from being improbable
that, in the course of time, Mr. MTarland will preside
on a libel case against a first-class newspaper. It is to
bo hoped when ha does, that that journal will not have
unfavourably noticed the Sydney University Review
—anyhow as regards “ The Unpaid."
* • •
Perhaps the biggest swindle, next to a
first-class Queensland libel case, is a church debt
liquidation bazaar. It generally tabes place in the
school-room immediately adjoining the sacred edifice,
and the stalls, &a., are presided over by a choice col-
lection of curates and parishioners, who give their
services so as to get out of giving anything else. There
is generally an " art gallery," which is a “ bob to go
in,” and in which the objects of art arc of a rather
bizarre description. Two gallipots, placed side by side,
sra labelled “ Family Jars; ” and seventeen lollies in a
row, “ Sweet Seventeen." The humour embodied in
these proceedings is exquisite, no doubt; and although
the fraud is a highly reputable one when carried out for
church purposes, it would, under any other circum-
stances, get a man six months “ in tho jug.”
* * •
■Warning to Bible-sellers. Look out that you
are not hauled up. Any passage from that publication
may be quoted against you to prove the tendency of tho
work, and no opportunity of explaining will be afforded
How will you fare under these circumstances, if charged
with vending a prfblication not written in the public
interest? What about Lot’s daughters? How about
that Romance at Potiphar’s Point? What can be
opposed to the plaintiff’s counsel’s remarks on the
tendency of tho Song of Solomon ?
* # *
The crack Burrowa cricketer feels a bit
crumpled up just now. He got a letter, signed “W. L.
Murdoch,” not long ago, courteously requesting him to
play against the English Eleven at Cootamnndra. Ha
replied in a dignified strain, stating his willingness to
establish a panic amongst the Britishers, and congratu.
lating the captain of the Cootamondra team on his
intelligence in selecting him. Then he went about the
town, holding his bead as high as a corporation lamp-
post, and was so proud generally that he would drink
with no one under the rank of a Small Debt Court
bailiff. A little later he got a note from Murdoch,
saying the letter he alluded to was a hoax, and that the
only part open to him in respect to the match would be
cutting up the sandwiches and opening the porter.
Since this, the Burrowa man has only issued out when
the shades of night have fallen fast, and is so humble
that he will take a Deer at the expense even of the
bellman.
* • »
It's no wonder that the people are over-taxed
and that the " pore labring man " can only earn his 15s.
a day coal-whipping. It isthe extravagant salaries paid
to Civil servants that is the root of all this evil. In the
Colonial Secretary’s office there flutters a golden butter-
fly, who ha« only to take charge of the Great Seal, affix
the same to all documents that require it, to watch
over the safety of all Crown Grants until they are re-
turned to the Lands Office, to see that all signatures
and counter signatures are correct, to attend to all
hospital and infirmary matters, to fetch cherries and
sausage rolls for the heads of departments, invent pleas-
ing little fictions to satisfy the consciences of the wives
of brother officers who are temporarily “on a bust;'*
and for these trifling, not to say superficially insignifi-
cant services, he rots the country annually of plunder
to the extent of £75. We feel that we should be neg-
lecting our duty as public journalists did we not cadi
attention to this reckless waste of the public funds.
Why, it is no secret in the department that the reci-
pient of this indecently munificent screw is getting so
rich, day by day, that ho confidently anticipates, when
the snow of age is on his locks, taking a journey
“ over the hill to the poor-house.’*
m m •
Now that the Judges have decided that every
article in a newspaper may be commented on in a libel
action with a view of showing the tendency of the pub-
lication, wo propose to print in each issue a few extracts
from the Old Testament. We think of commencing
with the story of David and Bathsheba, as being
calculated to mollify the Chief Justice, and follow
up with the story of Absolom’s assassination, and
the demeanour of his companions, as likely to touch
the sensibilities of Sir William Manning. At any rate,
we are determined always to shovel in something about
Mary and her little lamb, George Wasbington and his
hatchet, the giddy old Kings of Israel, or something
combining the moral with the thrilling, like those
sketches of “ Sundays in London,” which light up the
columus ef the Hebaed like a dark lantern with the
slide closed.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Rev. Thomas Spnrgoon has permanently settled
at Auckland, N.Z,
Rev. Mr. Price (C. of E.) has left Wilcannia.
Screw frightfully in arrear.
Kev. Thomas Holme, the well-known ascetic
C. of E. parson, of Maryborough (Q.), has returned
from a trip to the old country.
Twenty-four Mormon missionaries arrived in
Liverpool to convert the English heathen. What with
Moody, the Salvation Army, and the Mormons, sinners
are well looked after.
•A. sum of .£7OOO has still to be raised in aid of
Eaul s Cathedral, Melbourne, to comply with the
conditions of the anonymous promise of £25,000, and a
special effort is being made.
Several of the Parisian papers received by last
marl make merry at the expense of those who profess
to have benefited by miracles performed through tie
medium of a pilgrimage to Loundes.
Canon O’Reilly, for many years incumbent
of St. Philip’s, Sydney, died at Parramatta on Sunday
evening. He hal only just returned from a trip to the
old country. The Canon belonged to the extreme Lew
Church party.
King John, of Abyssinia, is extremely desirous
that all his subjects should be Christians, but he likes
to convert them himself. If a native accepts Christi-
anity at the bands of a British missionary, for ever
afterwards he hops through life on one leg, the other
luckless member being cut off " by order of the King."
The English curates are forming a trades
union. It is time they did so. The present distribu-
tion of the ecclesiastical revenues is a disgrace to the
Church of England. They will probably insist on "fair”
payment and fixity of tenure, for, at present, the
curate is entirely dependent for his wretched stipend
on the good pleasure of the incumbent.
At Ballarat, a Mrs. Bloomfield, who originally
belonged to the E.C. faith, but had married a Protestant,
was being buried in the Presbyterian cemetery: several
Catholics objected to the reading of the Protestant ser-
vice, and a shocking scene occurred. One man used
dreadful oaths, and had to be forcibly removed ; another
expressed a hope that all Protestants would be sent to
tell.
The longevity of the better class of Jews is a
subject of general remark. It can, however, be easily
accounted for. In the first place, the'Jews are a tem-
perate race, and, at all events after marriage, a moral
race. In the second place, they take care to live well.
In the third place, they never give themselves up to
exhausting work, fn the fourth place, they are for-
bidden to eat unclean animals. Finally, a Jew has fifty-
two fewer working days in the year than Christians,
for both Saturdays and Sundays are days of rest to him
There is probably another cause for the longevity in
question, which is that Jewesses are rarely, in any
class of life, converted into drudges, 1
The ill-feeling between the Irish priests and the
Italian padres in Queensland continues. Father
O’Eeilly, of Gympie, absolutely refused to comply with
an order by Dr. Cani, administrator of the diocese to
read from the altar a communication contradictory of
statements made in a memorial by the Catholics of
•Gympie. Father O’Eeilly winds up a decidedly warm
letter in the following terms" Miscreants, of what-
ever dye they may be, will understand that they cannot
in future molest or malign bishops and clergy with
impunity, so long as people know it, and are afforded an
opportune y of holding np such malefactors to universal
execration.” Will anyone thiead on the tail av me
ecat?
The Express, the organ of the Roman Catholic
priests, has thought proper to reprint onr article cn
“ Marred Eites,” having reference to the burial of the
late" Mr. Michael Fitzpatrick; but, at the same time,
has taken the liberty of making excisions from the text
as we wrote it. The article, as printed in the Express
has undergone a process of expurgation. Now, we
contend that, while the reprinting of a portion of the
article is an indication that the fairness of its tone in
reference to the attitude of the Eoman Catholic
authorities has been recognised, the expurgated por-
tions, which dealt with other aspects of the affair, were
conceived with squal dispassionateness, and framed with
equal force. The portions reprinted by the Express
were qualified by those which were excised by the eon-
ductors of that journal, who merely delude their peo-
ple with garbled information and distorted facts, ft is
easy to understand why people, who in ordinary life
resort to such devices, are called “Jesuitical.”
Tho other evening, Rev. Dr. Kelynack
(Wesleyan) was preaching in St, Andrew’s (Presby-
terian) Church. When he had but half flnislol, a woman
dressed in a faded brown costume, marched down the
aisle, to the foot of the pulpit, where she loudly ex-
claimed. “Shut np, you old dog. What you say is
b' rot. You ate all going to hell and damnation "
Prom all thD, it’s quite evident that the lady is a
Christian—of another sect. She has since been
committed for trial, under an effete statute of Queen
Elizabeth—the same Act, we believe, as that under
which the pious Premier prevents white men, who may
pay to come into town on Sunday per his secular trams,
from charging admission to lectures on the “ Sawbath "
This is a free country, and the State is supposed to hare
severed its connection with all religions, of whatever
kind. Why should a secular State allow anybody to be
committed for trial for an offence which, if committed
under any other circumstances, would simply amount
to the use of abusive language ?


BRIEF MENTION.
“ Come back, Pontius Pilate ! We once thought
you unjust—but coma hack I”
The Clontarf anniversary.—Boxing Day. Send
your daughters t assist at the celebration.
The Wollongong Convent school examination
was carried out by a priest and a Christy minstrel.
“ The woman with the wooden leg’s husband”
is how the only M'Elhone put it in the Assembly on
Friday.
The coronation of the Czar of Russia will take
place in June next, should it not be preceded by his
funeral.
It is easy to understand why the Marquis of
Lome advocates female emigration to Canada. He
wants his wife back.
If one should desire to knock the sanctimonious
stiffening out of a Northern cleric, it’s only necessary
to address him as " parson.”
The constable who killed the man at Yass has
been twenty years in the police force, and had an ex-
cellent character —of its kind.
At Koroit (Vic.), the other day, a hotel license
was granted to one Eobert Lord, conditionally on his
taking the pledge for twelve months!
“ Write ns acriticism on “ The Messsiah/’j’ said
the managing editor of a daily journal to an eminent
musical critic, “ and I’ll give you two geese."
In a Central Queensland seaport town a mother
was so hard up that she was compelled to shear off the
beautiful hair of her child and sell it to buy bread.
Barlow, the English- stonewaller, is a teetotaller,
and says he would as soon drink kerosene as brandy.
However, as a set-off to this, Massie, who won the
batting trophy, isn’t a teetotaller,
» Scene; Bulletin Office. Editor, to faithful
counsellor.—“ What d’ye think the leader should be
about this week?” Faithful Counsellor.—" If wo were
iu America, I’d be able to tell you.”
“ The Fakir of Oolu,” Dr. .Sylvester, is trying
to form a company to buy a patent for a new kind *of
gas. However, as Dixon shares are so low down, the
worthy doctor will find the business a troublesome one.
Christmas day falls os Sunday, which awkward
arrangement between the Sidereal system and the
Julian calendar cheats the industrious Bank clerWud
the overworked Lauda official out of one day in the
year.
Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern Miner,
has a terrific twist with the stockwhip. Bespoctiug the
venerated member for his district, he remarks: —“ Mr.
Stubley has gone into pigs. He is finding his true level
at last."
A clever advocate once got a man off who was
charged with stealing a pair of trousers, and afterwards
found the man could not leave tha dock, because he
had the trousers on. The lawyer’s name was not
Buchanan.
“ Fine country for cattle this,” said & Bathurst
magnate to one of tha English Eleven. “ Yes, and
for ducks,” rejoined the Cricketer. It was not until
the Bathurst man took up his paper that he saw it.
Bathurst 22 score;—102000300; etc.
We read that much sensation has been caused
throughout Spain by the Papal excommunication of the
editors of three newspapers in Santander, for attacks
upon the clergy. Bat what is excommunication com-
pared with the verdict of a jary of four F
A Northern parson has a tame emn called
Cherry. ’Tis a truly Australian picture to see this
graceful bird bearing the parson’s little son to school.
If careful training go for anything, Cherry will soon be
capable of " billing " round the plate during church
service.
It has been suggested {that the British Govern-
ment should purchase the Great Eastern as a State
prison, after ascertaining that it will hold the'entire male
population of Ireland. An Irish friend suggests that
this will leave' Kilmolnham Gaol free for the women
and children.
The captain of the Dancing Wave was lately
fined for hiding his lights under a bushel whilst off the
Solomou Islands; but a harbour tug can do it, and not
lose a single copper. This proves some people can see
a long way into a grindstone providing they pick the
hole themselves.
The main introducer of the Yiotorian Gambling
Bill (says a Melbourne paper) was the successful raffier,
for no less than £5OOO, of a property which the
eventual winner was glad to sell at £l5OO, and for which
he had to pay £879 for unsold tickets, which was part
of the bargain ou the the said sweep.
‘‘Can you recommend me an overseer?” en-
quired a Biverina squatter of a friend, as they stood
outside the Exchange. "Yes; I Know a fellow who
would be glad of the billet. He’s a J.P., too.” “ That
won’t do,” said the man of beeves, turning ou his heel;
"I must have someone who can read and write.”
The great sorrow of the Rockhampton junior
member’s life is that he cannot lap his tongue rouud
tho adjective “ transcontinental." Whenever he tries,
'tis a sight to behold his admirers twisting their "gobs"
into all sorts of grotesque shapes, under the delusive
impression that they are helping him out with it.
The other day, a rival newspaper man said of
Thadeus O’Kane that he yearned for a P.M.-ship.
Thadeus retorted that Government would probably
soon make his snufflebnsting and itinerant-ranting friend
a guager, a "mission" for which he was eminently
fitted, as his nose would smell a glass of whisky round
a comer.
Story from the Namoi: —A journalist recently
advertised for an apprentice to the printing, one coadi-
tion being, of course, that the applicant should be able
to read. Only one showed up, his mother accompany-
ing. “ Can he read?” asked the boss. " No,” said the
woman, “ but ” (with a little hesitation) " couldn’t you
tache him ?”
A young Goulburn settler, who has been on a
shearing tour, tells of a station on the back blocks
where nearly all the sixty-two shearers were sick
from the abominable water supplied, and the “ black
hole " in which they had to sleep. Thirteen remained
there, too ill to leave. But it doesn’t matter, so long
as the squatter rakes in a princely income.
A marriage in high life —that is to say in Celestial
circles—at Mudgee last week. Sun War Key married
Miss Carry Chong. The bridegroom was manager of
Sun Kum Tiy*s warehouse, and the ceremony was
impressive. Carry was in lavender silk and excellent
spirits; her sisters were bridesmaids, and the break,
fa t was at the residence of the bride’s father.
Scene: A Victorian up-country railway station.
Hon. the Minister of Eailways arrives just as tho last
train has gone. Bail way Servant: “ Shall I order out a
special, sir?" Minister: “No, no. I'll wait till the
morning for the ordinary train. I'm going to run the
railway on strictly commercial principles. But, stay,
perhaps as it’* for the good of the puulio, you may as
well."
For a good all-round blasphemer, commend us
to the evangelistic evening daily. Speaking of the
“ utterly too-too" craze, Friday week’s edition plainly
says that tha first aesthetic was Ho who told us we
could find “ sermons in stones/' “ Consider the lilies
how they grow," should have been quoted also. Let us
cling passionately together, and see who holds nine-
pence.
The Campbelltown Herald says s—“ It will
be interesting to many to know that wo have among us
a gentleman who can mead almost anything in the iron
line. We refer to Mr. Gard, who has most expeditiously
fitted up our office pump." This is interesting, cer-
tainly, but we don’t believe the Herald’s pump gentle-
man can hold a candle to tha nobleman who mended our
umbrella last week.
The Evening Bennett said not long ago
that larrikinism was rampant in Queanbeyan, and the
Aqe— we mean The Gale (a paper said to be run by
young ladies) —has a leader denying it. It says, indig-
nantly, “ Queanbeyan is no worse than other places,
despite the colours in which some paint it.’’ It is a
very nice little leader all through. We wonder which
of the girls wrote it.
The overseer of a station in the Southern dis-
trict drives into town to attend Sunday school every
Sunday. On one Sabbath he drove through a lot of
sheep and maimed forty-five. The next Sunday he
polished oil a valuable dog ; and again, he tried hard
to collide with another buggy. The local police
are too busy inspecting the hotel bars to lock after him,
so he is still at large.
Maitland schools have been breaking up. Pupils
of Dominican Convent parodied Shakespeare’s “ Early
Days." Sauchio Home and Sacre i Haart College pupils
performed inane farces; and the High School young
ladies displayed splendid drawings and fancy work, and
gave good music. If the object of breaking-up exhibi-
tions is co show what pupils have learned, the High
School girls shine the brightest.
“ Judge Dowling, in commenting upon the case
Mamstone v. Baragray, regretted the absence of a
reporter when such an important case of reckless driv-
ing was to be heard.” A word in your ear, gentle
Judge. Suppose our reporter did attend, and, in the
public interest, we openly stated that someone was an
unprincipled impostor, with whom it was not desire-
able to leave a single cent, what kind of a show do you
think the impostor would stand for scooping up another
cool £2OOO ? You coma down here and report for a
week, and we’ll go up there and do the judging.
The Evennooze says that the words “ Marred
Bites,” which formed the heading to a “ Plain Eng-
lish ” article in last issue of The Bulletin, were in-
correctly quoted, and that the title should have been
"Maimed Eites.” But, O wise and learned Alfred,
"Hamlet” and the Nooze don't compose all the
classics of the language. Give Dryden a turn, and sea
if you can’t rake up our quotation somewhere.
There are forty-three unmarried girls in Wol-
longong, and not ona of them has got a beau. They all
go out walking together like the Major-General’s
daughters in " The Pirates of Penzance," and flee from
a man with thirty-bob a week salary like a temperance
philanthropist from a poor relation. They are im-
pervious to the fascinations of any member of tho male
sex who is not either a millionaire or a cirons-rider.
This is how the Tumut and Adelong What-
d’tou-Call-it commences a snake par:— "The Trail op
the Serpent. —We do not refer te Moore’s well-known
lines in Lalla Eookh, or to Miss Braddon’s sensational
novel hearing tho above title; but to the somewhat
startling experience of a resident of Bombowiee—Miss
Hibbins—on Sunday last." It is evident from this
that high-toned journalism is not confined to the
metropolis.
Mr. Gladstone Eyre has given Mr. Challis’s
picture to the Town Hall, and Mr. Alexander Stuart
has given Sir John Eoberfcson’s portrait, by the same
artist, also bo the city. However, as many more por-
traits by this rising young painter in the municipal
gallery would possibly have a monotonous dfect.it might
not be unadvisable, in the next addition to the Alder-
manic collection of celebrities, for the Council to
indulge in a little change of Eyre.
The Pope lost 20,000 dols. by his paper, the
Aurora, the publication of which has now ceased.
There is a story —and it's a pity the Holy Father didn’t
know it—of a min who sold his soul to the Evil One on
condition that the latter should first run a theatre and
then a newspaper. The former task the Devil found
irksome enough, hut shortly after getting mixed up in
newspaper business,-the old gentleman got tired, cried
off the bargain, and gave the man back his soul.
At Maryborough (Q ), there is a gushing olergy
man who lectures periodically on “ love, courtship, and
marriage,” and after each lecture the local paper says
that though the discourse was exceedingly good, very
few attended. The fact is that the Maryborough girls
like practising with young laymen from the Koyal
better than theorising with the parson, whose lectures
are only patronised by stale virgins with winter faces,
who haven’t kissed a man for such a long time that they
forget what it’s like.
According to a hint given by Mr. Purves, the
barrister, while defending tha men arrested for gam-
bling, p.t Melbourne, it seems to bs understood that
Detective Mahoney is not satisfied about Wiberg, the
gold robber, having run clean away from him when
making his celebrated bolt, and that when Wiberg
cornea out of gaol a match will be arranged between
him and the detective. Mahoney is the champion
ha’f-mile runner of Victoria, but Wiberg is the cham-
pion half-mile bolter.
At a certain Wagga hotel there is an old white
tom-cat, who is the abhorrence of the housemaids, in
that he persists in lying on the pillows of tha beds.
The other evening Mary, on looking into the room of a
certain early-retiring and white-haired squatter, saw
what she took for the “ old tom," and went for him with
her hard fist. "Murder!" followed, for the “ old ’nn,’’
arrayed in the snowy robes of night, ross npandscudded
after her under bare poles. Squatter now'puts house-
maids and cats in same category.
An Adelaide commission agent, named Baker,
has entered tha lists as a reclaimer of women. He
passed the night with one, in Melbourne, lately, tboat-
ing champagne, etc, and gave her into custody as soon
as he left in the morning, on a charge of sterling some
of his loose—in more senses of tha word than one—
sovereigns. No one would have guessed that he was a
missionary, had he not in court stated that he only
brought the case into the temple of justice in order to
put down the practice of these women!
While our evening contemporary devotes nearly
half of its editorial energy to denouncing steam trams,
and hoping for the happy day when horses shall draw
the cars, a London paper laments that cruel as may be
the fate of a ’bus horse, that of a tram moke is infinitely
worse. The writer says "it is the tug of starting that
tries the poor horses, and as there is a fresh start about
once a minute it is not strange that one ’bus horse will
last out two Itram horses, Tevhaps, ere long, we shall
have steam trams. For the suffering horses’ sake I
hope so." But, then, the London man can’t know any-
thing about it. There’s only one newspaper in the
world that writes really clever and unprejudiced articles
on the tram question, and that is the Nightly Error.
It isn’t often that private individuals lend their
personal assistance to get the country governed cheaply,
but a few days since, a porter, who is in charge of a
railway station at (say) Nova Zembla, did so. Tha
wages to labourers is 7s. a day, authorized ; but when
two men applied for work, and would accept the current
wages, this Northern porter took upon to himself to say
that plenty of men could be got for 65., and it was not
necessary for Government to pay 7s Noble man !
These are the patriots who make a country truly great I
fMemo : Northern porter’s screw is £3 10s.]
The other afternoon, some boarding-school
misses, at Glebe Point, wanted a bath, so they got tho
servant to close the flood gates of the battaiug-honse.
Then there wa e a big splashing, and as they thought it
was a larrikin they sent a man to reconnoitre. But tha
visitor turned out to be, not a man, but only a 14 foot
shark, whereupon tho bread-and-butter misses, who
were all pretty enough to eat, breathed freely again.
The shark was shot by the groom, and—we get this
yarn from the D.T, They usually see dogs, not sharks.
Writes a correspondent:—There is a very un-
pleasant aroma emanates from a butcher’s shop in
William-street. On a Sunday it is particularly bad,
and more than one objection has been passed to such a
nuisance existing in the neighbourhood. Calves and
sheep are to be seen in the back yard, but of course
they are only there for exhibition, as it is a violation of
the law to kill on the premises. The sooner the pro-
piietor of this establishment doss something to remedy
the evil the better, for the efllavium that arises is simply
unbearable and offensive.
How it was done. A new-found friend told
John Daw, buahman, who was travelling from Louth to
Bourke, that it wasn’t a good thing to carry all his
money about with him. He advised him to get out
Post Office orders tor a large amount of it, and post them
in a letter directed to John Daw, Bourke. But when tho
real John Daw got to Bourke he found that another
John—his soidisant friend—had preceded him, had
asked for a letter for John Daw, stating that he
was John Daw, and that, if anyone in the
Post Office doubted the fact, all that need bo done
was to open the letter, when it would be found to con-
tain two Post Office orders for £lO each, made out in
his own name. The letter was opened, and the identi-
fication of tho man being considered satisfactory, ho
was paid the £2O for the Post Office orders.
As every quack who styles himself “ Doctor” is
dignified by that title in tho daily newspapers of Syd-
ney, it is just about time that the public should look up
the “ Medical Eegister" for themselves. The other day
we noticed that an utterly unqualified scoundrel, who
has been more than once in gaol iu various parts of tho
world, and who is not only a notorious abortionist, but
even worse thing?, was coolly dubbed “ doctor” by a
daily newspaper which ought to have known better.
Tha impudent villain in question, who hangs up in hia
“surgery” the diploma of a dead man, whose name he
has assumed, had better drop his title of “ doctor," or
we shall deem it our duty to publish a little of his
history and show him up generally, the libel law not-
withstanding. S>duoy is emphatically the Paradise of
Quacks. At least a hundred get their living hare, and
many of them make fortunes.
Pitt-streefc Congregational Church was well re-
presented at the Lytton Amateur Dramatic perform-
ance at the Victoria Hall on Friday last. One of the
Sunday school teachers was taking tickets at tho door,
three scholars and ex-soholara were on the stage, and
the front seats were filled with members of the church,
choir, and congregation. It would have created very
little surprise if the proceedings had begun with a hymn
and closed with the benediction. There is also a faint
whisper afloat that a small group of the pious, when
the trouble was over, read, discussed, and finally acted
upon St. Paul’s anti-teetotal advice to Timothy, with
such gusto, that at about half.past 12 o’clock it would
have been difficult to distinguish them from the un-
regenerate. There are people who revile the drama
wholesale when represented by capable acters and
actresses, yet who crowd to see the same plays mur-
dered by the merest tyros.
In a letter to the editor of the Protestant
Standard, Mr. J. W. Bardwell, writing under the
screamingly funny heading of “The continued persecu-
tions of Mrs. Bardwell,” says that certain statements
recently made in tho Assembly by Mr. M’Elhone, con-
cerning the estimable and accomplished lady named,
“ are only a further development of the plot to rnih
her. end should open tho eyes of the public to tho sys-
tematic malignity of her enemies. It was only a short
time since (daring the night of the great storm), that
the Public School of Eedfern was broken into, tho
presses broken open, embroidered work and books
damaged (nothing stolen) and scattered about; and
more, obscene writing, in the same man’s hand that placed
it in Crown-street, was there! written iu the silent
watches of the night, during the groat storm, with no
eye to see it but God’s! ” There’s something mys-
teriously horrible about all this. It’s just the very
thiug we wanted to complete that strong situation in
our new drama, adapted from "The Blood-soaked
Dagger of the Dark Eavine."—The silent watches of
the night 1 The great storm 11 No eye but the Al-
mighty’s !11 The damaged embroidery I!!! Tho samo
man’s hand!!!! I Blood! Be lud I Whoop!
Wanted, for aracecourse in Central Queensland,
os course, fence, and building repairer and gate-keeper,
a single man not less than 14 stone in weight. In order
to prove his eligibility for the situation, applicant will
have to stand half a dozen rounds with any member of
the jockey club or the secretary. The duties will consist
in admitting the public at all times for purposes of
horse-training, or other sports: Also in supplying
premisea with water, the lagoon being under a milo
distant. Ho will have to protect tho fences, outhouses,
and grand-stand from destruction by blackfollows,
vagrants, and larr.kins, and refractory jookoys and
trainers. Will have to keep keys of gates and doors (20).
Will have to find a flock of sheep to manure the laud
wherever instructed by secretary or any member of tho
J. C., and also to keep the sward cropped. He will not
be permitted to use any of the buildings, but tho
privilege will be conferred on him of pitching his tent
in the paddock, which is 400 acres in extent. In con-
sideration of the foregoing advantages, the applicant
will have to pay a rental of £72, per annum of eleven
months; the remainder of the time he will have to re-
move all stock from the paddocks, under a penalty of
£ICO, for each day or each fraction of a day, duriwr
which he shall depasture animals ou said land. Copy
of lease on view at our office.
If we were to charge our columns with com-,
ments upon the wishy-washy stuff labeled " Poetry"'
that finds ready acceptance by country editors,
should require a weekly supplement of the same size ass
our ordinary issue. Bat a bard, under the worn da
plume of "Veritas," in a Bathurst paper, has distin-
guished himself by a triplet rhyme (?) of such pecu-
liarity that he is really worthy of a corner. Therefore
hero goes to immortalise him, “Veritas" is i n l
dulging in slaughtering sarcasm apropos of some local
bootmaker, one for whose (s)nob he has certainly ad-
ministered—
“ He once had a horse, a pure-bred, of course
Whose performances ruined the great Paris Bourse.”
Now, how is this to bo pronounced iu order to fulfil tho
rhyme ? Arc we to say—
“ He once had a horse, a pure-bred, of corse.
Whose performances ruined the great Paris Borso
Or, '
“ He once had a hoarse, a pure-bred, of coarse
Whose performances ruined the great Paris Boarse ”•
Or,
" He once had a hoorse, a pure-bred of coory^
Whoso performances ruined the great Paris Boarse ’*•
It’s rather mixed isn’t it? Send along the toh;tier
and wa will readily admit that “ Mtvjm ost vcritas cl'
prevalcbit."
We have onr regular block paradem and our
picnic girl 3 by the hundred, and various other speci-
mens of the social butterfly, who. dress in gay atiire
though they sell not, neither sow to gain the wherc-’
withal for its purchase; but Sydney hr a not as yet pro-,
duced "Litt.’e Miss.” We have di-taut likenesses of
hi r, iu some respects, but she is a London institution
distinctly. Little Miss is barely fifteen, she loiters at.
the street corners, and stares into shop windows, sbs
ogles men as they pass, and, she dresses meretriciously
to attract them. She is not modest, but boldly submits
to criticism, nay, even challenges it. Draw we her pic-,
ture: She wears most likely a pink sateen or
frock, very short, very much tied back, t bowing the top
button of her high kid boots, and very much trimmed
with cheap lace;, a very tight fitting jacket of stocking-,
ette, severely buttoned to set off her form, and a Devon-
Christmas in Australia.
Hear the wild and merry laughter.
Pealing to the purple sky 1
Saucy echo sounding after,
’Tis the kookaburra’s cry.
’Tis, oh 'tis the wonted warning
Happy day will soon begin.
Through the golden gates of morning
Christmas marches smiling in.
Wattle trees in dells of Eden
Are ablaze with yellow bloom;
All the air is overladen
With their rich and rare perfume.
Mounts the sua; his warm beams slanting
Through the oaks that plume the hill,
Set the locusts chirping, chanting.
In full chorus, Ipnd and shrill.
By the banka of yon blue river.
Where by balmy breezes stirred.
Shady cedars nod and quiver.
Sounds of merriment are heard.
Pleasure-seekers of all ages—
Folks for long in city pent—
Come like birds freed from their cages,
There to give their spirits vent.
On the sward with flashing faces.
Festive youths and maidens gay
Trip about wi th lightsome faces.
As some sprightly game they play.
There a bind of youngsters, hearty.
Full of frolic, full of fun.
Just escaping from the party,
. Q*? r the green banka romp and run;
Whilst apart in shadow yonder
Sit the elder folks at ease.
And with thoughts that fondly wander
Back across the rolling seas.
Talk of ivy green, and holly.
Blazing logs and fields of snow.
And of bygone fun and folly
'Neath the mystic mistletoe.
So the merry Christmas passes;
Yet there was a time, I ween,
When those banks of silky grasses
Often saw a ruder scene;
When the dusky sons and daughters
Of a past barbaric day,
Basked beside those placid waters
In their idle, wanton way.
Here the midnight fire they kindled.
And around in savage glee.
With their bodies striped and brindled
Danced the wild corroborreo ;
Leaping with fantastic antic.
As they whirled before the flame.
Till like Paries, flsree and frantic.
One by one they all became.
Where that gay young pair are boating
In their dainty craft of blue.
Once the dark-skinned fisher, floating
Iu his flimsy bark canoe.
Cat-like sat and watehod and waited
Whilst he speared his finny proy.
But that tribe of evil-fated
People all has passed away.
Now the black man’s race is ended.
And his cooey's heard no more;
Sweeter sounds with laughter blended,
Eing along the river’s shore.
F.T.
Young, December 14th, 1831.


ILEY BR
336 GEORGE STREET,-)
600 GEORGE STREET, S
165 OXFORD STREET,)
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWC
A»D •
10 COLEMAN STREE'
THE CH E APEST
• IS THE
AUSTRALIAN CO
THE OHIOINATOI
NOTED £5 Bi
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1 White or Coloured Qnilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Flannel
12 yards W inoey. Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
3 pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
yards Qambroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
- Holland
2 large size Bedroom
[ Towels;
| 3 yards Strong Osnabnrg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 (pair Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
idoz. Pocket’kerchiefa
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &c. Ac.
£5 Men’s Clothing
* Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, largo size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Pelt Hat, any size
G pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
JES Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Pettiooats
The above are made of
good loagcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, ether
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
Uo
2 La
2 Ln
!fl
JEI
Jfi
4 Ini
2 Inf
2 Ini
1 Inf
M
2 Inf
lluf
t do
S<
Puff
1 Fla
2 Bib
1 pail
1 Infi
1 In
S<
Q
l li
H
£5
1 paii
l.farg
lOyar
20ynr
20 Wi
10 goo
6 yar
Al
wear in
£5 :
1 paii
1 whl
5-jar.
10 "c-i
6 whi
12 yar
12 yar
4 paii
1 pah
1 Dai
vz
4 larg
3 yar
Ti
Th
£5 B
25 yds,
1 dozi
1 Bla<
1 Lad
1 Trii
1 paii
RILEY BROTt
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants' Long Flannels
1 Hairoord Monthly Qown
2 Infants’ Boilers
i dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Bex, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer
£2 Stockman's vo i
Parcel. J
£2 1
ei
1 Hand
Ss
1 lufaa
Squa
silk
1 lufan
Silk 1
Can
1 Pair Tweed Trousers 2 Nighi
1 Crimean Shirt 2 Chem
shire or coquettish Sylvia hat, poised deftly on the side
of her head. Ten-button gloves, pencilled eyebrows, a
profusion of cheap bangles, occasionally anklets, and al-
ways colour, and there she stands. She is not wicked,
but it would be an exceeding stretch of charity to call
Little Miss a good girl. Inse isatcly vain, she likes to
be flattered. She loves not vice, but cannot resist
money. Love she knows nothing about, but a lover is as
necessary as the air she breathes. Little Miss dees not
hold her own charms cheap, but give her money, flue
clothes, and give—Ob, yes—give her jewels, and yon will
find she is not a vestal virgin in her ideas of morality.
Little Miss is a practical schemer. All she wants are
fine frocks and trinkets; and she gets them. She is not
deliberately vicious now, she is only silly and uupiinci-
pled, but some day she will grow to he a very had
woman. Little Miss infests the great metropolis of the
world, but she is not likely to be seen here. The Botany
girl and the Bay Bacchante leave no room for Little
Miss in Sydney.
How many members of the Assembly hold paid-
up shares in the Barrima Coal Co. ? Eh ?
All the ironmongers of Parramatta are bachelors,
and they all have red hair. Is there any connection
between the two circumstances?
There has been an imposing public funeral at
Vienna of the victims who perished at the Rink
Theatre, owing to the police and firemen neglecting to
open the escape doors. All that is further needed now
is an imposing public funeral of these officials.
A girl called “ Agnes Madden,” writing “ On
Barmaids” in the Christchurch Liberty, says “The
bar does not certainly tend to elevate the mind.” No,
Agnes, it doesn’t. All the elevating influence is centred
in the bench. .Wo think so; and we ought to know.
Since the recent expose of the “ hanky-panky ”
business in connection with a certain big Melbourne
sweep, the promoters, who previously were making
thousands a year out of the trade, and were not satis-
fied, have been unable to negotiate a single sweep. The
boy and the nuts story over again.
At a banquet given on the 17th instant by the
Mayor of Eedfern, to celebrate the opening of post
and telegraph offices, the Mayor of Ashfield attempted
to depreciate the borough of Darlington by facetiously
stating that he had actually seen soap-suds running
down the gutters in that model borough, whereupon the
Mayor of Darlington instantly asked how that could
happen when all the Darlington washing was done at
Ashfield, such was the general Darlington opinion of
the ability of the Mayor of Ashfield to conduct wash-
ing.
At a recent wedding in the Hartley district a
well-known practical joker attired a young man in
feminine " flxins,” and introduced him to the assembly
as a lady from Bathurst. Being 'a capital dancer, the
new comer found lots of partners, and did heavy work
in the flirting line. At supper, however, some trifling
Slip betrayed the secret, and “ her” cavalier—a youth
at all times more remarkable for the force than the
polish of his expressions—startled the whole company
by calling out ” Crikey ! I say, chaps, look here 1 blest
if the bloomin’ girl aint a man.”
“ And brethren,” said a long and solemn spec-
tacle! parson, last Sunday, as he gave out the last
hymn, “ I have to request that none of you sing this
hymn unless you feci the words.” Report has it that
only he and an old woman, as deaf as the pow she sat
in, and who had had a book passed to her by a warden,
“ skirled the sang” after that, and that the congrega-
tion didn’t look at all happy. It is on’y fair to this
•• low ” church parson, however, to aid that it was his
last appearance at that show, and that the “ spoils ”
had been duly bagged before he permitted himself to
speak so feelingly I Hollow— hollow— hollow.
The other Sunday, a woman entered a Melbourne
hotel, bought three bottles of beer, and tendered in
payment a coin which the landlord at first thought was
n sovereign, but which he, while counting out the
change, /ound to be a bright new farthing. He at once
took back his goods, and said ho would sen I for a
policeman. ‘‘For what?” innocently asked the lady.
For passing bad coin.” “But it isn’t ha! coin. Its
current coin of the realm of England. If you choose
to take it ns payment for the beer, I can’t help it.’’
And when the landlord said he would give her in
charge, she turned with a smile, and gently reminded
Jam that it was Sunday. He collapsed.
There is great joy throughout the States. Nick
for Noddy) Tooth, the Mayor of Maryborough (Q ). has
sent an addrew of condolence fo Mrs. Garfield. It is
reported that Mrs. G. was so delighted when she gdt it,
that she longed to have another husband potted, so
that she might get one more address. Another account
eays that the principal newspapers contain the following
‘‘ad. ” :
•'FOR SALE.—WASTE PAPER.
Apply, Mrs. Q d, Washington.”
That playful fossil, the Newcastle Herald,
in describing the breaking-up of a local school, and the
presentation to the teacher, by a girls’ class, of a testi-
monial, which, we road, consisted of "a cut-glass and
silver pickle-jar and fork,” solemnly romaiks that “ the
presentation was so great a surprise that the teacher
was unaware of ths pupils’ intentions until the last
moment, and was visibly affected.” He must, indeed,
have been visibly affected either by the loss of the girls
or the prospect of pickles, for the Herald makes him
say that ‘‘the removal of the girls from hia depart-
ment, he felt, would be a severe loss; they had been
tho sunshine of his labours. There was some consola-
iiou, however, in the fact that they would still be usar
him, aftd under the same roof.”
Saints less sectarian and more sensible about
Braid wood thou any place yet to the fore. A Church
of England parson was leaving last month,, and it was
decided to testimomalise him ; so Protestants, Romans,
Hardsfaelle, Calithumpians, Infidels, and even China-
men all rest together, and collected money, and then
arranged for a social gathering at which to present him
with a purse of sovera : gns. First came a tea meeting
pf the- orthodox kind, then came a sacred concert, and
thou, after the tables ware cleared away, the fiddlers
were called in, and, what Father Hennebery calls “ the
devil’s pastime ” was kept up till 6 a.m. The way some
of those nice demure youug girls from the choirs laid out
for au “ old man ” romp in the ungodly polka was very
significant. A Nerriga girl was first favourite for
belle, though there were very short odds on some otker
girls. She had a print dress, laoe-np boots, and splendid
action. The result of the affair was a purse of £2 >to
the parson. It wouldn’t be a bad idea to have one of
these arrangements in Sidney, as a change from the
worn out “sale of gifts.” The novelty of a tea-fight, a
sacred concert, and a dance, would draw the public like
a free feed draws *' Oar John.”
The banquet given by the members of the
Legislature to Pir Henry Parkas, took place in the
Pai’tapsentary refreshment-room, on Tuesday night,
and'wuif attended by the President of the Legislative
Council, in the chair, and twenty eight members of that
body, together with seventy-seven members of the
Assembly. There were only two speeches—
one by the Chairman, proposing the toast of the even-,
-ancr, the other by Sir Henry Parkes, in reply. Both
iwere cxtrom-ly felicitous. Sir John Hay managed,
■while avoiding mere eulogy, to dwell upon the numerous
'high qualities which have elevate! Sir Henry Parkes to
Ibis present station. Sir Henry was in his happiest
wein, and in replying, gave an interesting resume! of his
career since coming to Australia. One passage es-
pecially was n-jLcly in tone, and de-erves to he
widely diffused. “ I am one of those,” said Sir
Henry, “ who think that no man ought to lo
ashamed of his origin ct his condition of life, and
I think, also, that occasions may arise when it may
l>e pardonable in him, and even good for Ms fellow-
countrymen, that ho should state the plain facts relat-
ing to some passages of his life. (Hear. h«ar ) Well, I
at rived in this country in the year 1839, au entirely
unknown young man. I brought no letter of intro-
duction ; I was known to no person in the country, and
lived in New South Wales for two years without seeing
a human face which I had known during the first
twenty-three years of my life. On one occasion I re-
member picking up a sixpence in on* of the public
streets of Sydney; that ..ought bread, which, if I had
not picked up the sixpence, I should have had to have
gone without fer the day. I leave this country as
Prime Minister, apparently with the confidence of both
Houses of Parliament. (Prolonged cheers). I non.
ticn this circumstance with no improper desire to
thrust private circumstances before the public, but
because it seems to me a fitting occasion for pointing
out that there is for every man who knows how to use
his hands, and who has a brain (bear, bear), and
Bufflc.ont bravery to employ it aright, the opportunity
to win his way against the richest and the best and most
favoured.”
THREE TERRIBLE NIGHTS.
A CHRISTMAS STORY, written by that distingdished mur-
dererderer, ARTHUR LEFROY.
Wb are enabled to present our readers with a literary
curiosity: A Christmas Story by a murderer. The
manuscript was in the hands of a literary gentleman
with whom Lefroy—who, as is well known, has been in
Australia—lodged it with a view to publication. It
was not used at the time, and by the kindness of a
friend the story has reached our hands. It perusal will
be a psychological study of curious interest, while the
fac-simile of the closing lines in Lefroy's own hand-
writing, and of his signature, will prove of interest to
those who believs that a man’s handwriting furnishes
an index to his character.— Ed. B.
Christmas time I There was no donbt about, it. Every-
thin? and everybody savoured of it. The hght_ of
Christmas fires shone through and gleamed behind
closely curtained windows, with merry leaps, sending
showers of golden sparks up dark chimneys, to emerge
more bright and dazzling than ever in the clear frosty
air, like fleeting souls hastening through the gloom and
cares of life to shine in higher regions.
“ Christmas!" cried the bolls, as they pealed softly
through the still night air—“ Christmas! merry
Christmas!—Christmas! merry Christuiasl” so merrily
and cheerfully that he must have been a man of stony
heart who did not echo it, too, from sheer sympathy.
“ Christmas 1” murmured the dark river, as it lapped
against the buttresses of the old stone bridge, and then
sped away with many » secret in its gloomy bosom to
the sea, where, in company with many others of its
pace, it murmured still of Christmis; and *• Christmas
time I” pleaded inebriated gentlemen when questioned
by stern policemen as to why they were sitting in
frozen gutters at midnight. For that one day a sort of
univoraal truce seemed to be established. Creditors
forgot their debtors, debtors forgot their creditors;
wives forgot to scold, husbands to abase, and young
husbands forgot their mothers-in law, which was per-
haps hardest of all. Conservatives and Liberals,
Churchmen and Dissenters, “old boy’d” and “old
follow'd” each other to their hearts con t»nt, and the plea
for all was—Christmas ! But when the world got up
next day what a change was to be seen ! Closed blinds,
no church brils, shops shut—just ns if everyone was
ashamed of his or her last night’s festivity.
The*e wasn't much going on indoors to-day. for it
was Boxing Day—that day sacred to Chrishnas-bcxes,
bills, and last, but by no means least, pantomimes.
And to go to one of these last the children were mad
with hope long deferred. Yapa and mamma affected
not to like or care for such trivial amusements at all,
but the children—sly dogs, those children!—knew that
when onoo within the cosy recesses of that “lovely pri-
vate box," no one would cry “ bravo ” more loudly or
clap his hands more vehemently than papa. And what a
lot of pantomimes there were, too I Just look at the vari.
ous hoardings : “Robinson Crusoe," “Jack the Giant
Killer,” “ Aladdin," and many other well-known
stories had been made to contribute to the common
good. Bnt first and foremost among the brightly-
coloured bills was one that informed the reader “ that
on Boxing Night would he produced at the Rotunda
Theatre" the grand Christmas pantomime, “Jack and
the Beanstalk." Then followed a list of characters,
scenery, etc., and, at the end, in large letters, Clown-
Jolly joe Jiffs.
The Rotunda must have been a well-known theatre
for pantomime, for that night it was crammed from
floor to ceiling. Everything had gono off without a
hitch. The music was pretty, scenery magnificent, and
the grand ballet had been pronounced by the crntch-
and-toothpick genus in the stalls to be “ splendid," and
by an old lady in the pit to be “ beastly."
And now, out of breath with honest laughter, warm,
thirsly, and packed like sardines in a box, the great
audience sat anxiously waiting for the “ grandest trans-
formation scene over attempted at the Rotunda,” vide
hills. If there was excitement in front, so there was
behind. Everyone busy, excited and nervous, the man-
ager and stage manager not being by any means in that
happy condition described by the immortal Mis. Jarley
as “ cool, calm, and classical."
Inside one of the principal dressing-rooms was a man,
clad in a clown’s dress, pacing moodily up and down,
and listening with feverish impatience for a footstep
which never came. It was Joa Jeffs, and the person he
was waiting for was his wife. And she was a wife
worth waiting for, too. Young, pretty, and loving,
Nellie Raynor, then only—and, indeed, up to within a
week of the present time —a ballet-girl at a West-end
theatre, hod brought some new joy and life to honest
hard-working Joe Jeffs, who, though nearly fifteen
years her senior, loved her with a passionate love, and
would cheerfully have laid down his life, if it had been
necessary, to save her from harm. And this winter,
when Nellie, through her husband’s influence, got en,
gaged at the Rotunda as columbine. Joe Jeffs thought
that his cup of happiness was full to the brim.
A knock at the door. “ Come in," cried the clown.
Mr. Plies, the stage-manager, entered. Plies was a
little short man, with a round red face, with very short
black hair —30 short that it always stood on end as if
each hair was desirous of looking over its neighbour’s
head.
“ I'm very sorry, Mr. Flies," said the clown, humbly,
"very sorry; but Nellie told me to-night she wasn’t
well, and would lie down for a bit, and would come
late- on. I sent a boy to our place some time ago, and
she must be here in a minute."
“ Minute 1" roared Mr. Flies, “ what’s the good of a
minute ? I—who the devil’s that ?*' as a hind was laid
on his arm.
It was the harlequin, in the bills Roberto Taylori;
out of them, Bob Taylor, an old friend of the clown’s.
11 I’ve got an idea,” said the harlequin, giving a
kindly, unseen nod to his friend. “ 3ay a few words to
the public, and let my girl Be da go on for the part to-
night ; she’s about Mrs. Jeffs’ size, and I've taught her
the trip long ago."
Miss Bella Taylori was ia the front row of the ballet,
consequently could dance well and look pretty; but,
best of a!!, was there on the spot, so to speak. The
stage-manager didn’t take long to make up his mind.
“Bob,” he said to the haaleqain, “you’re a brick.
The very thing. Get the girl dressed at once, and I'll
get the guv’nor to speak to them.” Them being the.
audience, who were now in a state of noisy impatience.
Mr. Plies hurried off.
“ Tell your missus it’s all right, old man," said the
friendly harlequin, as he hurried away.
The clown was about to reply, when a light footstep
was heard approaching. A happy smile lighted up his
face. “At last," ha said, with a sigh of relief, as the
footsteps neared the door. Quickly he turned the
handle and threw it wide open, but only to start back
with a cry of disappointment, for the new comer was
not his wife, but the toy ho had sent an hour pre-
viously. "Well," cried the clown, “what did she
say f"
The toy shook his head stolidly.
" I didn’t see her, sir,” he said, “ only the landlady,
and she guv me this." The clown held cut his hand,
and into it the boy put a tiny nolo, on which was
written, in a woman’s hand, “To be given to my
husband.”
“You can go," said Joe Jeffs, in a voice which was
so hoarse and strange that for a moment It startled the
kd. When the door was again closed, the clown looked
at the tiny missive. Was she frightened that he wonld
be angry with her for remaining so long behind the time,
and so did not care to eome at all, bnt wrote instead P
That must be it. With trembling hands, he hastily tore
>t open, and read: “ Husband, good-bye ; I shall never
see you any more. lam going away with someone that
loves me very much. You were always too good for me.
May God forgive jour poor lost Nellie." Nothing more.
Only an old, oil story, with a vulgar clown and hia wife
as hero and heroine.
Joe Jells raked hia head. Was it paint alone that
gave that awful deathly look to his face and fixed glassy
eyes ? Was it clowning that caused the ctroag man’s
hands to shake as if he were suffering from the palsy ?
And, above all, was it art or nature which made that
bitter cry of agony arise from the uttermost depths of a
broken heart ?
At that moment, the call-boy’s shrill voice was heard,
** Mr. Jeffs, the stage waits I ” Mechanically the clown
reeled to the door, and opened it—down the narrow,
dark passage—and staggered through the wing on to
the brilliantly-lighted stage; and then, iu a voice more
resembling the croak of a raven than the utterance of a
human being, gave vent to the time-honoured utterance,
“ Here we are again 1"
How the house roared at the strange voice and the
staggering gait! Such quiet humour I So dry, very
dry 1 And then, after such a capital commencement,
the great audience settled down with keen anticipation
for tbe fun that was to come. And come it did. With
what zest did Jolly Joe Jeffs trip up the policeman—
steal tbe sausages—and go through the hundred and one
odd tricks that go to make up t’se sum total cf a harle-
quinade I The “ gods ’’ were in one continual roar;
even the stalls and circle were mildly excited; while
as for the pit, the opinion of that black, seething mass
of humanity may be briefly summed up in the words of
an excited old gentleman, who, carried away by his
enthusiasm, flung his neighbour’s hat into the air, cry-
ing, Splendid, sir, splendid 1 Grimaldi was a fool to
Jolly Joe 1" And tumbling, grimacing, tripping up, now
dancing on a spade, a minute later cracking tly j jkes,
the clown went through it. Only the clown, though, for
God’s beautiful creation, man, was gone. When his poor,
aching head swam for a moment, and he fell heavily to
the ground, what a shout went up I Droll fellow, that
Jtfls—very droll! And their knghter reached its cul-
minating point when, during a hornpipe by the pretty
columbine, two large tears fell down the clown’s painted
face, as he, in burlesque fashion, attempted to imitate
it. " He’s a crying with laughter I’’ roared the excited
gallery, and they cheered him to the echo for entering
so heartily into the spirit of the thing. At last the end
came. One last wild trick, clouds of smoko from the
coloured fires, a last mad “rally,” and, amidst tre-
mendous applause, the pantomime was over. As the
band commenced to play the National Anthem, Jolly
Jje Jeffs staggered off the stage, us he had staggered
on. Ere ho could reach hia dressing-room two men
stopped him. One was Mr. Flies, the other Mortimer,
the manager. "My boy," said the latter, taking him
by both bonds, and shaking them warmly, 11 you’ve
surpassed yourself. If only yonr wife could have seen
you!" That was enough. Fora minute Jolly Joe
stood erect, and then, with a wild, gasping cry, fell
heavily tot ha ground. The clown was gone, but the
man was there.
******** * * *
Ten years rolled by. Ten long, weary years they had
been to Joe Jeffs, who had never given up the search
for his lost darling. A few weeks after hia great loss,
on old relative had died, leaving him a small annuity.
On this ho had lived, or rather existed, wandering aim-
lessly about the country in the hope of one day finding
his wife, whom, in spite of all, her loved as fondly as
over.
And this Boxing Night, he was walking down the
little High-street of MilfcrJ, weary, hopeless, and sick
at heart, to all appearance a bent, careworn old man, a
mere wreak of the merry fellow who, ten years before,
had made a great theatre resound with peals of
laughter at his drollery. Quickly the clown walked
on, for the night was cold, and the biting east wind
seemed to pierce his bones to the very marrow. When
within a few yards of the little inn at which he was
staying, his arm was touched.
“ Buy a box of lights, sir; do buy a box, please ? ”
He turned. A woman, wretchedly clad, and with
death stamped in every feature, stood at his elbow.
“ No," answered the clown, roughly; “ I don’t want
any," and ho walked on.
But the beggar was not so easily shaken off. She
detained him again, and as the wind lulled for a minute,
her voice rang in hia ear—
" Buy a box, sir; just one box !”
At the sound Joe Jeffs turned.
"Let me see your face," bo cried, hoarsely; then, as
the pile light of the moon fell upon it—“ Nellie, dearie,
don’t you know me ?—Joe, your husband 1"
But there was no reply, for his long-lost wife lay
insensible in his arms.
She was dj ing, the doctors said—dying of cold and
want. So they told her husband, sitting by her bedside
in a little inn.
“ Can nothing save her P” asked the clown.
‘'Nothing on earth, my poor fellow—nothing on
earth." And the old doctor looked out of the window
and blew hia nose violently, for a kind-hearted old man
was the doctor, and knew something of poor Joe’s
story, and felt for him,
“ Yes, darling."
11 Are you snre yen quite forgive me ?’*
A loving kits was the only answer.
“ Nellie, I won’t be long," cried the clown.
"Listen!” And by a great effort the dying woman
raised herself up—then snddenly,—
** Joe, dear, what day is it ?’*
" Christmas Day, Nall."
"Ah 1 so it is. More light, for God’s sake, more
light!"
The doctor made a movement of bis hand, and the
attendant drew back the curtains from the little window
which looked upon the sea, on which lay a broad patoh
of gold, formed of the last rays of the sotting sun neon
the water.
11 How bright it all is, Joe,” oriel tbe dying woman,
as she sank back upon her pillow. "At last, at last i
Joe, darling husband ! good-bye!"
And with a sweet and happy smile upon her face
Nellie went down with the sun.
Joe Jeffs still lives at Milford, but he is wonderfully
changed, though. People say he is mad, and so he is,
in a sad, harmless way. For as sure os Boxing Night
comes round, he paints his face and dresses just as
clowns do, and there in the little tap-room of the “Bed
Lion” he sings "Hot Codlins” in a little, thin,cracked
voice, and tumbles in a mild and feeble way, and plays a
few clownish tricks. How the villagers laugh I They
know ho is mad, but that doesn’t take away their en-
joyment; and one of old Joe’s funniest tricks is to
address them all as "ladies aud gentlemen," and apolo-
gise for the non-appearance of the columbine. But when
all tbe merriment is over, old Joe, with his clown’s
dress still upon him, creeps down, whatever the weather
may be, to the little churchyard, where, with his poor
old grey heed pillowed on a little marble slab inscribed
“ Nellie," ho pours out a bitter prayer that heaven may
take him soon to her he loved so well, aud ere ha leaves
the tomb, with great tears upon bis painted face, he
softly prays for Nellie too. But the end must soon
come.
Each Boxing Night old Joe goes through the same
performance, and the people laugh as vociferously as
before. Bnt every yoar ho gets more feabla. He can’t
tumble as he used to, and his sight and memory seem
failing fast, and the absent lock iu his face seems to
denote that his thoughts are far away.
And now when people meet old Joe Jeffs, they shake
their heads sadly, for they know that soon,
'UtAj/
joJLL
o'
ARTHUR LEFROY.
THREE BOXING NIGHTS.


c
ASH PRICE LIST OP WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
Claret ... ~
Hermitage ..
Shiraz ...
Burgundy ..
Sweet Shiraz
COLONIAL WINE.
BED.
per daz.
Boisling...
Hock
Madeira...
Bouffier's Pineau.,
9s Od
10s Od
11s Od
12s 6d
13s Od
WHITE,
per doz,
J. T. Fallon’s Port 35s Od
Adelaide Grenacha
(rich Burgundy
type)
type) ... ...
Adelaide Port
30s Od
80s Od
Ds Od
10a Od
11s Od
15s Od
Brown Muscat ...
Muscat, vintage ’75
Adelaide Tokay ...
Tokay, vintage ’73
15s Od
21s
30a Od
30s Od
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 2ls to 36s Od I Good Sherry 24a to 36s o<l
Champagne from... 60s Od
Hennessy’s • Cass
Irish
French Claret from
SPIRITS.
Imperial •• Scotch
ditto
Imperial Scotch
Whisky
Burke’s ••• Irish
Whisky
D’Arcy’s
Whisky
Rum, Red Heart...
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Cose of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key, Casa of
15 Bottles (med.
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapps
25s Od
42s Od
44s Od
40s Od
38s 6d
48s Od
52s Od
46a Od
43s Od
44s Od
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
pints
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts
Fig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
quarts
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Belles Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. . qts.
7s 6d
10s 6d
7s 6d
10s Od
7s Od
lls 6d
12s 6d
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarts,
4dozen in a cask ; pints, 8 dozen. Foster’s Ale, quarts,
3 dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case. Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7 dozen. Pig Brand
Stout, quarts, 4 dozen in case; pints, 7 dozen. Foster’s
Stout, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Hoad Ale, 4 dozen quarts
in case; 7 doz. pints.
•*" Country Orders for Ales and Stouts mast bo for a
Cask or Casa of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra,
will be charged.
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Win®
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town, or to the Wharves or Redfcrn Railway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO.,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-stroet, Sydney.
P
XI E E CHINESE TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TAET & GO.
Have much pleasure in announcing that they have
opened at
, 300 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the French Cate),
AN AGENCY FOR THE FAMOUS
LOON SHAXJ TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co. will also submit for
public approval Silks and General Merchandise.
N.B. —Mr. QUONG TART has just returned from
a visit to China, where he in person selected the above-
mentioned Teas, so that their purity can be guaranteed.
INSPECTION INVITED.
300 GEORGE STREET—SHOW ROOM, UPSTAIRS,
Near Hunter-street.
JUST OPENED,
NEW STOCK !
Consisting of
DOLLS, TOYS, AND FANCY GOODS.
Every Department in this Establishment offers nn
piecedented attractions to those looking for
BIRTHDAY AND WEDDING PRESENTS,
Either Useful or Ornamental.
A - LARGE Collection of Imitation Jeweflery
perfect substitute for 18-carat gold—fashion®
wiou such elegance of design and choice finish as t-
bear comparison with the most expensive Albert Chains
Lockets, Bracelets, Earrings, Brooches, plain or en
graved, with various ornaments, all tho last 18-cara
gold patterns and best workmanship.
Cheap, Elegant, and Useful Articles.
Writing Cases, Travelling Bags, Portmanteaus
Desks, Mahogany or Rosewood
Dressing Cases, lined with silk velvet
Do. with silver fittings
Gentlemen’s Travelling Dressing Cases
Pocket Books, Letter Oases
Key Boxes. Jewel Gases, Perfumery, &o.
Port Mounaies and Tablets
Card Cases, in pearl, silver, and tortoiseshell
Albums and Scrap Books
Instands, in bronze, ebony, walnut, oak. & 3 .
Rgticules, Carriage Bags
Envelope and Stationery Cases
Ladies’ Companions, Croquet
Vel ll^ am ?r lateSt styles ’’ T °y s . Games. PuzzT,
and Novelties imported expressly for this season.
CELLULOID CORAL JEWELLE RY.—The las
qualities of CORAL place it far before anything
that has .vet been produced. There is no doubt i
JK 8 , substitute for and change from J
1 va ri* a . sooa be in extensive use, for Ct
I® 1 ? C .£ al Jewellery will not tarnish, wi.l not Bn
Y w Chunge its Colour. It can be won
the most ftstidiona and particular, being wondarf
rotch a o n f all! 6^4 - YCt tbopriO °
IMITATION
IMITATION
IMITATION
IMITATION
IMITAI lON
IMIT ALTON
DIAMONDS —The Greatest Novc
Marvellous Briiliai
DIAMOND^ —Prismatic Hues
DIAMONDS-Iu Rings
DIAMONDS—In Pins.
DIAMOND3—In Bracelets.
Stom! ’ ******* •«“*
ing article suffers bv^* 100 ' ° n ® oBS ’J wrsn ? it, tbest.
t,C • Grs by tbe comparison ;■ for in colour «
brilliancy this is ready beautiful. There now is
?ble 0 to B SSrd O^ln k n w OBCreeath ? factthat those b
u, va uabl ° ornaments adopt in preferei
E. C. 0 R E E.
turned. An early visit is requested to 7
540, George-street, opposite tho Town Eat
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir Henry Parkes is, to a day, the same age as
Prince Bismarck.
Mr. Everard Digby, an English barrister, has
been admitted to the N.S.W. bar.
Mrs. Gladstone says that her William always
prays before hia greatest speeches.
The Rev. James Jefferis, LL.B., leaves England
for Australia at the end of the present week.
Commodore Wilson, with his officers and crew,
expect to leave for England about the end of next
month.
The great temperance advocate, Sir William Fox,
was rejected by hia constituency at the last general
election.
_-Mr- Bonnor, the cricketer, is 6 ft. 10 in. in height.
There is a young man in Ballarat who beats him by two
inches.
Professor Nanson and Mr. Elkington amicably
arranged their little differences out of Court. Apologies
were exchange 1.
That most benevolent of men, Mr. Francis
Ormond, now < ffers £5OOO towards a Working Man’s
College at Melbourne.
Pensions are still paid in England to servants
of Queen Charlotte, and £lO a year to a servant who
was attendant on George 111.
The Town Clerk’s “ screw ” has been raised by
£lOO. Everything is being raised at the Town Hall,
from the foaudations upwards.
The Mayor of Casino has offered to pnll any
man on the Eichmond a three-mile race, in outriggers,
for £5O. No one has accepted as yet.
Major Smith, late Victorian Minister for Mines
and Education, is recover lug from the effects of a pain-
ful operation lately undergone by him.
“ The Vagabond” says he took, as the cue for
his nom de plume, this line from Molloy’s ballad:—
• Banned by saintliest cant, scorning hypocrisy's wage."
Captain Raymond, the inventor of phosphorised
oats, has, wo are sorry to notice, failed to obtain at the
hands of the Victorian Assembly a recognition of his
valuable Services.
Lord Mount-Cashel, aged 90, has entered into a
marriage contract. However, better at 90 than at 60,
inasmuch as his young wife will the sooner enjoy the
antidote without the bane.
Mr. Gladstone has a ready wit. When told, the
other day, of the new journal which the Tories had
established, he remarked, “ Ah ! up to their old game
again, eh ?—selling the People.”
That veteran actor, the Immortal William Hos-
kins, who has justmarried (in N.Z.) Miss Maria Douglas,
has previously had two wives—Julia Harland and Flor-
ence Colville. William always was a lady-killer.
Bishop Moorhouse said at the University council
meeting, in the discussion re the dispute between Mr.
Elkington and Professor Nanson, that when a gentle-
man calls another a liar his object must be to invite a
blow.
“A. B. C.” who has conditionally promised
£25,000 to the fund for building a new Anglican Cathe-
dral at Melbourne, is believed to bo identical with Mr.
Francis Ormond, the munificent founder of Ormond
College.
A numerously-signed petition for the release of
Dan. Mayne, editor of the Bathurst Sen: in el, recently
sentenced to four months’ imprisonment for assaulting
J. E. Tonkin, of Bathurst, has been forwarded to the
Executive.
Mr. Kernot, one of the members for Geelong,
whose death was for some weeks hourly expected, has
cheated the Destroyer, and has rallied from a complica-
tion of disorders in a manner utterly unaccountable to
the faculty.
Mr. George Wright has offered <£33,000 for
Scott’s Hotel, Melbourne. Mr. Wilson, the present
proprietor, who bought the place ten years ago for
£27,000, and has since made a fortune, is said to want a
higher figure.
Richard Wakelin, editor and proprietor of the
Waibaparapa Standard (province of Wellington, N.Z ),
is dead, aged 66. He was an old settler, and was for-
merly associated with Sir George Grey in various
political affairs.
President Arthur’s troubles have begun. The
Now Orleans Democrat says ho “ owes it to the Ameri-
can people and to good taste to shave off his JBritish
whiskers." If a man isn’t a patriot in his whiskers,
where is he, you know ?
The Premier and two other prominent members
of the Ministry are pronounced freethinkers. So that
it’s quite a mistake to imagine that they’re sincerely
attached to Orange “ principles," however dearly they
may love Oradfee votes.
President Garfield’s illness cost .£20,000, or 1250
dols. per day. The doctor’s bills, 53,000 dols., form the
largest item, of which Dr. Bliss receives 25,(00 dola.,
Hamilton and Agnew 12,000 dols. each, Eeybnm 3000
dels., and Mrs. Dr. Edson 1000dols.
Ouida is recovering from a sharp attack of
peritonitis, which has delayed her new novel, the tittle
whereof is “ In the Maremma,." Apropos, as the theme
is tragical, it is concluded that the book will be in her
best style, resembling that of “A Little Pair of Wooden
Shoes."
The portrait, in oils, of Mr. S. H. Lambton,
now being shown at Mr. R. T. Carter’s, Georgn-street,
is, perhaps, the best effort wo have seen from the easel
of our accomplished artist, Mr. W. Macleod. In the
words of the property auctioneer?, the picture ** will
repay inspection."
Mr. W. W. Oswald, for the last six years
manager of the National Bank of Australasia, at Bal-
larat, is going to London to take the place of Mr.
Thomas Moora Hartington, manager of the head office.
Mr. Oswald has been in the service of the National
Bank of Australasia for the last 22 years.
Daniel O’Connell was a man of genius, Gavan
Duffy is a man of talent. Duffy, in his recent literary
effort, alluded to O'Connell’s penchant for a young girl
who struck his fancy, as evidence of the decline of the
grand orator’s mental power. Yet Duffy, who is 65,
has just espoused a maiden of 24. Nemesis 1
It’s just about time that the honorable member
for the got a new wig. Aud now that tho session
is over the honorable member for the may
perhaps be able to find time to dye his hair, which, at
present, reminds one a little of aflea-bitteu Godolphin
Arabian, and a great deal of a Marrickville brick.
His Honor Judge Blake, who was at one time
a barrister in Sydney, but who is now an ornament of
the District Court of Queensland, where he is equally
celebrated as a lawyer aud as an eater of butter, has been
granted six months’ leave of absence. Mr. Real acts as
bis loeumtenens—a real change for the Queenslanders.
Mounted constable WUlian) Norman St. John
Maulo met a cad death from concussion, of the braiu at
Ooulburn, caused by a fall from hia horsa. The horse
shied and unseated his rider. Mauls was only 28, lately
sent up from the Depot, Sydney, and had moved in
better circles, being of good English lineage. Life is
full of ups and downs, hut it was mostly downs with
peor Maule.
Dr. William Brookes, J.P„ ex-Mayor of New-
castle, and formerly member for Northumberland, died
at his residence, Newtown, on Tuesday last, at the age
Of 72. Dr. Brooke?, who was well known in political
eirclpp, and as an upright magistrate, formed iu the
old country, years ago, strong political associations,
which exercised a marked influence over his long and
honourable colonial career of piore than a quarter of a
century.
Sir Joshua Peter Bell, K.C.M.G., President of
the Queensland Legislative Council, of whom we in our
Ust issue gave a portrait and biography, and who was,
the other day, on a visit to Sydney, apparently i»
perfect health, was seized with apoplexy while in ft cab
on Tuesday, in Brisbane. He was conveyed to the
nearest chemist’s shop for medical assistance, but never
rallied, and died a few minutes after the seizure. The
event has caused profound sorrow and universal regret.
Jerry Bryant, wbo died lately at Sale (Vic.),
was an intercolonial cricketer in the days of Harry
Hilliard, Dick Murray, Johnny MKone, and O. Lewis,
one match in Sydupy, gmt things were expected of
him by the Victorians, but he was caught by Harry
Hilliard off the first ball of the match, amidst great
excitement.
What does this mean ? “ On a recent Sunday,
at Wellington, N.Z, William Hoskine, the veteran
actor, was married to Miss Douglas, of the Pomeroy
Company. The marriage took place at the Theatre
Royal Hotel, Mr. Hoskins being lifted from his bed for
the purpose and then taken back again. He has been
ill lately, is very poorly yet."
Archibald Forbes, who at latest was in New
York, has written a long letter to the Herald, to prove
that his great grandmother or his great grandfather,
we forget which, had a good deal to do with American
Independence. The argument of the communication
seems to be that the salute given to the British flag
ought to have been given to Archibald I
Sir Henry Parkes said the other night that
there were two or three J.’sP. whom the Ministry did
not know what to do with. When wo mention that two
out of the trio are Messrs. M'Beath and Carpenter, of
pious and immortal memory, the public will readily
understand that Sir Henry is considering whether he
can’t offer them police magistracies ere he departs.
In a letter to Maud Branscomhe, a junior clerk
asked her to subscribe to the Provident Clerks’ Society,
on the ground that “ we are unable to walk in any
direction without seeing at least five photos, of your
beautiful face." Some people think Maud has one of
the handsomest faces in the world, but that’s a curious
reason why a person should be asked for a subscription.
The remains of three members of the N.S.W.
Assembly who professed the It C. religion have been
denied Christian burial by their Church. The first was
the Postmaster-General, Mr. D, Eagan, whoso remains
were secretly disinterred by some unknown ghoul; the
second was Daniel Henry Deniehy, the most gifted man
to whom Australia has yet given birth; and the third
was Michael Fitzpatrick.
It is very interesting to know that Mr. Byron
Moore, when giving evideaoe in the sweeps prosecution,
believed Zulu won the Cup, but did not know the second
horse. If Byron ever loses hia Lillet as secretary to the
V.E.C., wo’ll try and get him a billet as a picuic police-
man or a transit man iu Sydney, where his inability to see
or know too much will be appreciated. However, Bagot
really knew very little about; the horses themselves.
It is reported that Archbishop Vanghan intends
building a summer residence in Kiama. The Orange-
men are thinking of holding a meeting to consider the
danger to the town. By the way, the Archbishop has,
during his Southern trip, shown himself to be very fond
of fishing —not of angling, but helping to haul in the
fishermen’s nets. The correspondent who sends us this
remarks that the latter circumstance is suggestive.
There are some aristocratic farm labourers in
lowa. The Hon. Captain Reynolds Moreton, brother
of the Earl of Ducie, son-in-law of Sir John Dunlop,
farms 1000 acres of his own. Lord Hobart mows in his
fields, aud twq of Lord St. Vincent’s brothers wire-in
at the threshing machine. The Hon. Berkeley Moreton
and the Hon. Matthew Moreton, members of the same
family, are engaged in squatting and planting at Mary-
borough, Queensland.
Mr. Longmore, M.L.A., is dissatisfied with the
Victorian magisterial tariff for treating crime.
Assaulting a constable or insulting behaviour was
valued by magistrate? at £lO, whilst a woman could be
beaten to death for half a crown. This kind of thing,
Mr. Longmore says, is a disgrace to civilisation. But
then “thesmilor" always was an unreasonable man.
He won’t concede the right of every fellow to “ wallop
his own nigger."
At Carcoar, Mr, Baker described the Gren-
fell Record as “ an obscure country journal." Thus
the Record, in reply “ A few years ago the Record
was the property of the Honorable Ezekiel Alexander
Baker, and the obscure town in which the said obscure
journal is published, has provided tHo honorable
person and his family with many a square meal, and if
the town is remarkable for its obscurity, it is no less so
for the confiding natore of its inhabitants.”
The lady who, the other day, became Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy’s third wife, is his cousin, and is also the
niece of his second spouse. A few mouths ago she had
decided to become a nan, and her reverend instructor
was highly surprised to receive a letter, stating that
she had "changed her mind.” The reason is now’
apparent. Sir Charles is said to be looking very fresh,
and so rejuvenated that a leading assurance company
has accepted a policy on his life for a goodly sum.
Mr. Gladstone and Cardinal Manning have been
personal friends ever since they were young men at
Oxford, half a century ago, and not even the change of
the political creed of the one, nor of the religious faith
of the other, has caused a-coolness between them.
However, when it was proposed that Cardinals Manning
and Newman should be asked to attend the first levee
of the season, the Premier decidedly objected—he was
afraid of being set down as wishing to see the feeling
against “ Popery " die out.
Signor Rossi witnessed the killing of the late
Czar. He describes the arrangements and precautions
of the Nihilists as remarkably accurate and well-timel,
and he denounces the stupidity of the police, who, in-
stead of making a circle about the fifty persons or so
who were assembled at the moment, permitted them all
to deport without sjrutiny. The tragedian repaired at
once to a telegraph office, and was the first person to
send a despatch announcing the news. At first the
operator strongly objected to transmitting th-a message,
but it was finally flashed across the continent.
The latest "sensation” in Hobart has been a
« mill" between the Clerk of the House of Assembly
(H. M. Hull) and the Sergeant-at-Arms (J. E. Caldep),
arising out of an anonymous letter redacting on the
Sergeant, which Hull was accused of writing. The
pugilists met in a side street, Fred Freeman and a city
alderman acting as knee-men ; and Caider, who is a rare
old warrior, despite his seventy years, knocked " tin
pots " ont of Hull in tho second round, and chased him
home. What wanld her Majesty’s Faithful Commons
say it Sir Erskine Hay and Sir Augustus Clifford went
out and did likewise P
The following mysterious paragraph appears in
a letter of the London correspondent of a West of
England paper:—“A statement has reached mein
reference to the late mysterious murder of Lieutenant
Roper, at Chatham Barracks, which warrants me in
saying that we are on the eve of a disclosure in respset
to that tragic event which will throw into the shade
the sensations and romantic crimes of the last quarter
of a century. I must, for the present, content myself
by saying that tho perpetrator of tho deed i=> this
moment considering with his friends whether he will
avow his part in the transaction aud deliver himself up
for trial, or quit his position in society and leave hia
country for ever.”
The new Hotel de Ville of Paris will be worthy
the capital of a great nation. No less than £BO,OOO will
be spent on artistic furniture and decoration alone, and
the facades are to be adorned with 106 statues, each Bft.
high, of famous men bora in Paris. Of these, forty will
represent literary celebrities. In London, the genius of
Addison is honoured by a small tablet in the wall of an
old house in i etter-lane. Not a single stone imqge of
Johnson, Goldsmith, Steele, and others who laid the
foundation of I hat thoroughfare’s eternal fame, is found
anywhere. Milton’s name is dganjed unworthy of a
shtine iu the heart of tho city, and the one solitary
effigy of the “ Immortal William ” is in front of an ugly
skin-disease hospital, and had, when last the writer saw
it, a large patch of mud in its right eye.
Prior to hia return from London to Queensland,
Mr. S. 8. Drury, general manager of the Queensland
National Bank, was entertained at a complimentary
dinner, at the Grosvenor Gallery. Lord Denbigh pre-
sided, supported by the Duke of Manchester. The
guests (about seventy) included Sir Arthur Blyth, Sir
Robert R. Torrens, the Agent-General for Queensland,
the Agent-General for New South Wales, Sir Charles
Stirling, Bart., the managers of several of the Austra-
lian bank?, ftad a Iftrge number of the moqt influential
qolqnistaf no® residing ia Lbufloq. Letters were read
regretting that absence from tqwn, or prior engage-
ments, prevented the attendance of the Earl of Oar-
narvon, the Earl ef Drnmure, Sir William Drahe, Sir
Henry Barkly, Mr. Q. W. Herbert, and several other
gentlemen-
The nest great social event of European interest
is the coronation of the Emperor and Empress of
Russia, for which preparations are being made. The
Empress’s throne is of Oriental workmanship, with
silver ornamentation in relief, a id is adorned with 876
diamonds and rubies, 1223 sapphires, turquoises, and
pearls of the first water. Its date is 1659. For the
Czar the ivory throne of Constantine XL, the last
Emperor of Constantinople, is to be used. On the
back are the Byzantiau eagle and the figures of
Orpheus, Eurydice, Leda (!), and Saturn—a nice little
jumble I In view of the approaching function, the
clover and versatile Ivan de Woestyue has arrived at
St. Petersburg from Paris, to represent in the Russian
capital the New York Herald. Figaro thus loses one
of its best men, while the Herald pays £5OOO a year to
secure his services, and gives him two assistants.
King Theebaw, of Bnrmah, tho biggest bully and
brute in the world, has at last found his match. His
Queen was recently confined of a third child, which
proved a daughter. Now, King Theebaw wants an heir
to the throne, and he resolved, therefore, like Napoleon,
to provide himself with another wife. Indeed, he
bettered Napoleon, for he took two wives. The Queen
soon heard of this, and sent him a peremptory order to
put away his new wives at once. King Theebaw replied
that he should do nothing of the kind—that he was tired
of her Majesty, inasmuch as she only presented him
with daughters. Seven or eight days were passed ia
angry messages ; but, at the end of that time, the Queen
left her apartment?, and went to those of the King.
Arrived there, she seized the monarch, carried him off
to her own rooms, and locked him up with the baby. She
then went off, and attended to affairs of State, her first
act being tc,.cast the two new wives into prison, aud to
have them heavily manacled.
The other day. an absent citizen named La
Grange was alluded by Henry De Young’s piper, the
S. F. Chronicle, as " a rascal.” Whereupon, one A. G.
Bierce, a friend of La Grange, wrote some verses ia
another paper, warning Henry that he was courting the
fate of h s brother Charles (who was murdered by young
Kalloch), and remarking that he (Charles) “ but shone
with splendour brave by phosphorescence from another’s
grave." The virulent metrical tirade, than which wo
have never read anything more lively in the way of
invective, concludes thus :
“ Live to fulfil the vision that I seo
Down the dim vistas of the time to be:
A dream of clattering beaks and burning eyes
Of hungry raven? glooming all tho skies ;
A dream of gleaming teeth and foetid brexth
Of jackals wrangling at the feast of death;
A dream of broken necks and swollen tongues,
The whole world’s gibbets loaded with De Youngs 1”
However, Henry didn’t take any notice. What a pity
ha wasn’t ia Sydney 1
Louise Pomeroy sends us a charming letter from
Wellington (N Z ), to state that we were wrong ia
crediting her with the possession of a partner in joy
aud sorrow. " I have not.” she writes, “ the good
fortune to own a husband. New York city is my home,
and Denver, where you say ‘ we’ live, I have never
visited in my life.” All things come too late. If we’d
only known these things when the lovely Louise was
in Sydney! However, she’s coming back again, and
meanwhile we have had her letter sewn into tho lining
of our Sunday waistcoat, on the left-hand side, and are
looking up the law of divorco. By the way, wo see the
following in a NZ. paper:—“Frequenters of the
theatre during the dramatic, season may have noticed
that Miss Pomeroy constantly woro a peculiar bracelet
fastened by a golden padlock. This was clasped on her
arm just as she left the shores of America, by a very
dear friend, who kept the key till she should return
safe and sound. A pretty action, but rather awkward
if Miss Pomeroy should have to play a part for which
jawels were unsuitable." Wonder who "he" is?
Mean to poleaxe him.
Mr. Woodyatfe, editor of tho Maryborough
(Q.) Chronicle, has entered a libel action against tho
Wide Bay News, in respect to statements made by Mr.
Thomas Price, the junior member in the Assembly for
Wide Bay, in a letter to the editor of the News. As
Mr. Woodyatt is “ going " for the poor printer, and not
for the writer, who, as abovo stated, appends his
signature to the letter iu question, he is apparently
proceeding, not with a view to merely redeem his
character, but with the intention of clutching plunder,
too. And when ho gets the plunder, we hope he’ll buy
a picture for the local art gallery with some of it, and
spond the balance in a stained-glass window for (he
church at Tiaro or Owanyilla. Mr. Woodyatt ia bound
to secure big damages, if he’ll only retain Pope Cooper,
or smooth Swanwick, or “handsome Fred," and get
him to perorate: “We don’t want filthy lucre from the
rascally defendant; we don’t come into court with
an empty pocket and itching palms ; and when, gentle-
men of tho jury, you return that verdict, and award my
•lient that substantial justice for which the Hind
goddess yells, all the sugar will go into tho charities."
&c. 4c. Amen.
The Prince of Monaco receives about .£70,000
per annum for allowing gambling to bo carried on
in hia territories. His subjects number a few thou-
sands, and he has a sort of opera bouffe army of sixty
mou which is kept up by the gambling establishment.
At tho sight of a loaded gun they would all take flight.
Now, the Prince is entirely in the bauds of the Jesuits,
who have large establishments in his dominions, and
who force him to forbid tho erection of any Protestant
place of worship. It Is suggested that some intelligent
person should buy a plot of ground at Monaco, build a
house on it, aud aqk leave to erect a Protestant church
on another portion of the plofc. This would be refused,
whereupon the intelligent person might proceed with
the aid of a few well armed friends, to effect a revolu-
tion and turn out tho Prince and the Jesuits. Having
dona this, the intelligent person might call himself
Prlnoa, or, if preferred, President of the Republic of
Monaco, and inform the gambling establisament that
unless they paid handsomely they too would bo ejected
and their property confiscated. Neither Italy nor
Franco would interfere, and the net profit of the trans.
action would be at least £200,000. Now here’s an idea
for the remainder of the Kelly family.
Thadeua O’Kane, of the Northern Miner
has been committed for trial oa a charge of criminal
libel on a the local resident. This is the sort of alle-
gation the local resident resented, alleging that it was
intended to refer to him “ Long before Captain Cook
discovered this land of promise, the Burdekin River
was famous in history—the history of the blacks. It
was a territorial line, and opposing tribes met on its
grassy banka to settle national quarrels. They lived,
loved, quarrelled, fought, and killed each other as
pleasantly as possible until the advent of the white
man. A man came and settled on the river; his arrival
was the signal for rapine and murder in their cruellest
and most revolting forms. Ha fetched with him a
wholesale slaughtering license from the then Govern-
ment, and well he obeyed its murderous privileges.
This inhuman wretch, with the face of a fiend and the
heart of a wild dog,' at once commenced the work ef
slaughter. Ha spared neither age nor sex; tho shrieks
and screams of tho dying gins were music to his ears,
and he danced in fiendish glee to the agonising wails of
the helpless picanniniei. The bounding flying natives
were brought down by the rifle bullets, and, as their
life’s gore trickled over the grean grass, he plucked
forth their panting hearts and cast them to his dogs to
eat. Other?, again, were tied to stumps and flogged
with stock-whips, their brutal oppressor standing by to
encourage the inhuman stockmen by such cries as:
* Go it, boys.l lay it on to them ; cut their b hearts
out.’ Oa another oqcpaicn an unfortunate gin was
caught during ft bunt on the pan, fetched homo, oruollv
used by ums*er and map, and then i\iastcd alive. The
constant recurrence of these diabolical seems affected
the miud qf one ol tho stockmen to such an extent that
he became orazed; his brain weakened, and the secrets of
his master’s x illany were no longer safe in his keeping. Ho
was invited into his master’s room, made drunk, and
while in a state of drunken stupor conveyed to tho river
and plunged ia. It is said that his fellow stockmen as-
sisted at the murder,- aud that tho sudden immersion in
the cold water lestored to him his sense?. He came to
the surface struggling and screeching for aid ;atthe bid-
ding of their master they pelted him with boulders, and
he sank to rise no more. His aged parent? are si 111
living at Kirbconnel Plains, near Bathurst, and cry and
pray for their lung lost son. The tsars and prayers are
all in vain, they will never again see flim again in this
world.” Again : “Ho is csi-taiply an authority on the
Llack question, this Queensland Rabespierre; with
raven vflice, vulture head, and tiger heart, he scoffs at
any pity or kindness shown to these poor outcasts.
That’s not his style. He remembers, some years ago,
when he had a station on the coast, and hunted a crowd
of helpless black gins and their little ones into the sea,
how he stood on the beach and under the bright sun-
light brought his murderous rifle, to bear on them as
they shrieked amid the waves, and how he ‘potted’
them and danced to their dying agonies." After this
it is evident that if the man to whom this was
intended to refer is not a scoundrel, the
writer of the statements must be ono. The truth
will probably not be known till the Day of Judgment—
whether of the Court or of Heaven upon the
degree in which the Queensland beach and inries
resomblee those of colony.


Hotels, Sec.
ROBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockburn’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EVENING.
The compagnoni catering company
OF PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
wont of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior " Alcock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Catering (Jompany,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ CaM, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
HA S. R. gMITH,
MANAGER.
[CHWEPPE’S
MINERAL WATERS
SL
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND LOYAL
FAMILY,
can bo obtained of the principal hotelkeepers,
merchants and chemists throughout the colonies.
SODAWATER.
LEMON AD E,
GINGER ALE,
POTASS,
LITHIA (for
gout),
SELTZER,
TONIC,
MAGNESIA
Waters.
51 Bernees-street, London,
and
58 MARGARET.STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &o.
Kiama hotel, kiama.
G. TORY, Proprietor.
Commercial Travellers, Excursionists, Holiday-
seekers, and persons travelling generally, will find this
hotel the best and cheapest on the Southern coast. A
splendid table kept, and every convenience for families,
travelling shows, 40. Sample room for Commercial
Travellers.
The “ Laycock” Coach meets the steamer, and carries
passengers, luggage, &c..toaud from the wharf or to any
port of the country. Baggies and horses always for
hire. Billiards.
T
ICE ICE ICE
E
rpHE CITY ICE COMPANY, having made such
ADDITION to their WORKS as to enable them to
Manufacture upwards of TEN TONS of ICE per diem,
are prepared to Supply the LUXURY during the AP-
PROACHING SUMMER, at a lower rate than ever.
For prices, 4c.,
Apply to
8 WYNYARD STREET,
OR TO VARIOUS AGENTS.
B
OBEET BUTCHEE ft CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL. SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
“HOME" SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
OSS
naßim
c
ui
£
*
HOl^
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
120,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2. —Machine for treadle use only, £6.
t No. 3. —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian “ Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Solo Agents for Australia —
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
«■ LOOK FOR THE NAM 1! I
w
H. A E I E L
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 345 Kent-street, near King-street.
L.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whittingham and Co.'s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill's prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 315 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
G. CHUECHWOOD,
SALT MEECHANT.
IMPOETEE and MANUFACTUEEE
of.
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS,
SPICES, RICE, and MEALS.
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
OFFICE and STORES:—I47 YORK STREET,
SYDNEY.
8
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHOETEST
NOTICE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
8
HOP FEONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent Honse, 869 George-street South.
BEITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent Honse, 869,George-strcet South.
jp APE EH AN GINGS WAE.EHOUS
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Georgc-street'South.
W/” HITE LEAD, OILS. COLOUES, CEMEI
M 4c., 4c.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 889 George-street South,
jpLATE GLASS. PLATE G.LAS
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Tobacconists
*
*
TIN TAG!
TTAG!
Caution to Storekeepers.
A NYONE selling Tobacco with any Bound Tin Tag
■ra. other than those bearing our brands
“CONQUEEEE" or “YANKEE DOODLE”
is infringing our rights, and will be proceeded against
by Law.
We ore obliged to give this notice, as a Sydney Manu-
facturer has been sending out one of his inferior brands
of Tobacco with a Bound Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
DIXSON AND SONS,
155 YOBK STREET.
TOBACCO SMOKEES,
Note the Above.
J.EVE . TOBACCONIST .149.
lunrtiiiiiimmiiTrfl
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STEEET.
Loans geanted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VABNISH.
PAPEEHANGINGS
(a really splendid stock).
BOOM and PICTUEE-FEAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BEUSHES. «
GOLD LEAP, Sc.
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK, 281, GEOEGE ST.
INDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY.
705 GEOEGE STEEET,
Hay market (Only).
Our Star of India Teas are noted for Purity and
Weight. Packed fresh every day on the premises ia
Jib., lib., at.d 21b. packages.
Superior Sugars, General Groceries, and Christmas
Frnits of first quality; cheap for cash. Good de’ivered
in Town or Suburbs daily, free.
E. OLIYEE, Manager.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
' summer, warm in winter, and is almost
incombustible. For laying under carpets,
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear twice as long. For covering steam
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat ;
great saving of fiiel; apply several layers
The cheapest felt in the world. Manu-
factured at the Paper Works, Liver
pooL Sold by Ml Ironmongers,
Warehonsemen & Storekeepers
Price, 4Jd Sc 6d per yd.
30 A 40 inches wide,
any length.
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store, i
■36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. *»
FKDRI67EI
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
tioßw.
WHT?
blandish
hlandW
t£tUntuJ
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON,“AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEEE BOTTLEES,
105 PITT STEEET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
ALBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing domain? for his Wines, ho
has taken tho above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS,
Although the principal busincss.will ho transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
SSP Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyard*)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with tho assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
QHRISTMAS WINES.
HOCKINQS and Co. invite buyers to book orders for
their Christmas supplies without delay. Address-
Opposite City Bank, Pitt-street. HIGH CLASS
WINES ONLY.
P.
R. L A R K I
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
N.
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Qeorgo-strest West (late Parramatta-sweet),
Aid
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street,
Pure Caps Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale aed Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
The Celebrated
The Purest Stimulant
i&iiiH
The Kune of M. MOSS ft 00.
erery Genuine Bottle.
JJAY OR NIGHT PORTRAITURE.
The elegant Studio of
THE ELECTRIC PORTRAIT COMPANY,
205 OXFORD STREET,
(Opposite to the Court House, Darlinghurst),
IS NOW OPEN, from 10 in the Morning till 10 in the
Evening, for
TAKING PORTRAITS BY ARTIFICIAL LIGHT.
Architectural, Mechanical, aud Landscape Photographs
in the highest style of art to order.
The Autotype process also practised in all its beauti-
ful varieties.
MJ. LAMBERT & CO.,
• Ale and Porter and Australian
Wine Merchants,
23 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY,
have on hand Prize Wines from the Celebrated Vine-
yards of Messrs. A. MUNRO (Singleton), J. T.
FALLON, GREER and Co., and Dr. LINDEMAN
(Albury), and all the leading growers of the colony,
which we sell at their pricer.
We have also a large stock of superior Ale and Stout
brewed specially for us, which is second to none in
Sydney.
Schweppe’s Mineral Waters supplied.
N.B.—Orders delivered in town or suburbs daily.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRI
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.


Monaco, the Rambling hell, has a wonderful
history. In 1862, M. Blanc bought out a paltry roulette
table-keeper,,and obtained a lease for gaming purposes
for fifty years from the Prince of Monaco. MBlanc
wont to a brighter world, and his wifo married her
daughters to Prince Kadzeville and Prince Buonaparte
—then she died. The hell-katping princes (a spade is a
spade, you know) spend lavishly. Eighty musicians
perform every afternoon and night. Two hundred
gardeners are constantly keeping in order the immense
terraces, and laying out fresh ones. Eoulette is carried
ou for twelve hours every day, at about four tables
usually. The banker’s profit is 2f per cent. There are
two trento-et-quarante tables, on which tho banker
claims 1 per cent. The total net income from the
A^ h . lnenfc is estima *ed at 14,000.000 francs, or
*500,000!
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880
Higher awards than any oxh.ibij.ora of watches received!
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
ZWj shall be glad to have this index posted uv bv seerehtrite
racing dubs and managers of sporting events'in general .]
E AGING.
Williamstown (Vic.) December at.
Hawke's Bay (N.Z.) Bacing Club.. Dumber "6
“V r vi t ; rossSSTSS
A.J.C. Summer Mee£V"".V..V.VZ" De^iSfr
feteis rf'ni ’i; December 26, 27.
December 26, 28.
Kfln.iBRton Park (Vio').\V".7.V,V,V.V.V.‘‘V 3l'
T"i‘a"Sha4ii,B°“ n “ r «-»»
SSS!^ ,^ ,m -~~=r|a5|:
Wnv January 2.
|- «•
Pork Macquarie a
Markon, Eangitikei (N.Z.) 8
Vmtonau Betting Club j™ 7
January 26. 27.
tS?"i " January 26 and 27.
New England J.C.......... Januarr 26 07
Wellington (N.Z.) E.C. Summer Meeting ..Feb. 2 and 3
Tasmanian Jockey Club r..February 14, IS, and 16
gSSezKZTsx
V*E (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23,24,25.
Wanganui (N.ai) Antanm 12.’
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club Mareh 16 and 17.
AQUATICS.
Holdaworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
„ 8-oar Outriggers. December 24.
Raymond Terrace Eegatta December 26
Fyrmont Eegatta December 26
Newcastle Annual Eegatta January 2.
Lane Core Eegatta January 2.
Pork Macquarie Annual Eegatta January 2
Stockton Eegatta January 26
w^iI erSar J B , 0ffatta 1 - January 26.
Daman v. Boyd, on the Tyne April
PEDESTEIANISM.
Bathurst Athleetic Sports December 26.
Highland Society, Association Ground.... January 2!
CEICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
ElevenDecember 23, 24, 26. against 18 of
South Australia at Adelaide; December 31, Janu-
ary 2 and 3, Combined Australian Eleven at Mel-
bourne; January 12, 13, 14, against 22 of Otago at
Dunedin; January 16 and 17, against Oamaru or
Timaru; January'20, 21, 23, against 15 of Canterbury at
Christchurch; January 26, 27, 28. against 22 of Wel-
lington at Wellington; February 2, 3, 4, against 22 of
Auckland at Auckland; February against Stan-
more 18 at Norwood Park; February 17, 18, 20, against
Combined Australian Team at Sydney.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
wenty-four acceptances for Tattersall’s Cup.
Spinningdale scratched for the V.E.C. Champion
Stakes.
Wheatear was scratched for Tattersall’s Cup on
Monday.
Seven acceptances for the Grafton Tattersall’s
Club Handicap.
The N.S.Wales team were present at the matoh
Victoria v. AU-England.
Spinningdale and Primrose are scratched for
all summer engagements.
The Warwiok-Carlton match will bo continedin
the first week in January.
The Elastic disqualification case is set down for
hearing at the Supreme Court.
Dunn won the two hours go-as-you-please, at
the Hippodrome, covering 15 miles.
Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club formed.
Mr. John Oliver, secretary pre tern.
The New South Wales Volunteer Rifle team
defeated the South Australian team by 42 points.
E. 0. Laycock easily won the sculling match at
Brisbane for the Norwegian Ale prize, Solomon second.
At the Geelong College sports, on the 13th in-
stant, J. Boyd, a lal of 17, did a high jump of 5 ft.
8 inches.
Balthazar is being freely backed for the double
event, at Christmas. Socundus is supported far Tatter-
sail’s Cup.
Boccaccio and VonMoltko try conclusions in a
trotting match over the new Elsternwick (V.) track ou
23th March.
Only excursion railway fares for the N.S.W.
cricketers in Victoria. The free pastes have been dons
to death there.
Nominations for Orange Now Tear’s Day meet-
ing:—Flying Handicap, 13; Pony Handicap, 8; New
Year’s Gift. 11.
The committee of Tattersall’s Club are satisfied
that the sale of Secundus was bond fide, and the horse
will be allowed to start.
Edwards won the six days’ go-as-you-please at
Melbourne, covering 432 miles; Swan was second, 421
miles; Baker third, 416 miles.
The champion sculling event at Brisbane was a
gift for Laycock, who boat Solomon and M’Cleer so
easily that the race need not bo described.
The Victorian Cricketing Association offer a
£5 ss. trophy for the best batting average in the inter-
colonial match, and a similar prize for bowling.
The South Australian Jockey Club and the
Adelaide Eacing Club have both decided to hold meet-
ings on New Yeat’s-Day, in opposition to each other.
Parramatta entries Trial Stakes, 8 ; Flying
Handicap, 10; Soiling Stake?, 10; Selling Ease, 9;
Handicap, 10. The racecourse properties realized
£196.
Several of the American papers denounce the
Triokett-Plaisted match as a “ mere hippodrome, got
up for the purpose of Triokett winning.” Hippodrome
is a good word.
The 48-houra’ go-as-you-please contest at the
Hippodrome resulted in a win for Assenheim, who
covered 174 miles 1 lap. Le Petit was second, with
170 miles 6 laps.
Wallsend Races.—Entries: Welter and Hurdles,
4 ; Prince of Wales Stakes. 5; Trial Stakes, 5; Maiden
Plato, 5; Novel Baoe; 4: Flying Handicap, 4 ; Jockey
Club Handicap, 2.
J. Eaby, the young Englishman who defeated
the American amateur champion walker, Merrill, re-
cently did eight miles in 61m. 405., heating A. Hand-
cock in a match for £lOO.
HThe match between the Carlton and Warwick
clubs for the Holdsworth-Gardyne trophy was con-
tinued on Saturday, on the Association Ground. The
Carlton innings closed for 320, When time was called,
the. Warwicks had lest 6 wickets for 196 runs, the
scorers being Downes (not out) 52, Scanlan (not out) 49,
Hiddlestono 21, Eigg 21, Ogilvie 15, E. Gregory 14.
Oatley 10, Nettle 10.
The Hanlan-Roas match fell through, on ac-
count of Eoss not coming up to the scratch. Hanlan
refuses to row Trickett till he is done with Boyd.
Trickett beat Plaiatodjeasily in October, and cannot get
another match on.
The S.E.C. eight will have a walk-over on Satur-
day, for the Holdsworth-Gardyno trophy. The prize
has to be won three times, and it is to be hoped that
the donors will be gratified with at least one contest
for their handsome gift.
“ Euffler” is informed, on excellent authority,
that the winnings of the American “ plunger,” Mr.
Walton, at recent races, are as follows The Derby
£4700, Ascot £6OOO, St. Leger £BlOO, Newmarket £50,000.
Ditto, £32,000: total, £lOl,lOO.
Following were the batting averages of the All-
England Eleven for their four matches in America:—
Ulyett, 43 3; Bates, 27.3; Midwinter, 25; Barlow, 22;
Shaw, 19; Scotton, 16.3; Emmett. 12; Selby. Ill;
Lillywhite, 4.2; Pilling, 3.3; Peate, 3.
Some of our cricketers who don’t bowl but who
have come to the front as batsmen and fieldsmen should
practise nnder-arm bowling. A bowler of that class
might cause a panic at times when the spin and screw
of the round arm delivery fail to shift the batsmen.
Speaking of Foxhall’a win in the Cambridge-
shire Stakes, Bell’s Life in Londou considers it
the greatest victory ever known on the turf for a three-
year-old to carry the thumping weight of flat., and to
give no less than 2et. 71b. to a horse who had run
second to him in the Grand Prix, and third in the
Leger.
The one-day match between English Eleven and
Cootamundra Eighteen resulted in a draw, each side
having only one innings. Scores:— Eleven, 185—
Barlow, 39; Shrewsbury, 26; Shaw, 22; Peate, 19;
Scotton, 18 ; Ulyett, 15; Bates. 14; Pilling fnot out).
14; Midwinter, 13 Eighteen, 112—Murdoch, 57; Simp,
son, 24; Healy, 18,
The trustees of the Association Ground should
bestow some attention to the state of the road to the
ground. The dust is intolerable, and pedestrians now
have to choose a path over the hill to escape the
nuisance. The Corporation officers might, though
risking typhoid, take an occasional sniff at the lagoon
adjacent, and remove the causes of the odour.
Trickett wanted to make a match with Hanlan
for §2OOO, but Hanlan declines making any engagements
at present. Is it possible that our Ned has learnt the
secret, and that the other Ned knows it ? Hanlan posi-
tively refused to row Trickett, alleging that some parties
have been finding money for the Australian in order to
farther their own ends. A somewhat unintelligible
kind of excuse.
Snail’s Bay Amateur Regatta. — Open boats
under canvas: Volox 1, St. Crispin 2. Open or half,
decked boats: Adelphi 1, Ethel 2 Skiffs, under can-
vas: Desdemona 1. Dingies, 16 feet: Daisy 1, Violet
2. Nereid 3. Dingies, 14 feet: Alice 1, Young Jack 2.
Members of Bowing Clubs, in clinkers: Josephine
(F, J. Ball), 1; Courtney (W. J. Foster), 2. Canvas
dingles: Maggie 1. Latona 2, Olivette 3. Maiden double
scuUs; Novice (N. Johnson, C. W. Gaden), 1; S.E.C*
(*. Boemer, J. Brodie), 2. Eesidents of Balmain'
B ° ul^: Hose (E. A. and J. B. Gaden). 1; Our
7cr e( U J ’ ? ad J< Abbott), 2. Gig and dingy : Gig
(H. woolnongh), 1.
Glebe Rowing Club Regatta.—Maiden fours :
Minnie (W. Lee, J. Eldridge, L. C. Birchell, W. H.
Bros, stroke), 1. Maiden double sculls; Nellie (G.
Darrell, F. Williams), 1. Trial fours, in clinker out-
riggers ; Oracle (E. Haslingden, M. Mitchell, W. Bull,
K. Shute, stroke, 1. Scratch fours, in atring-test gigs :
Pipistrelle (G. L. Maoready, G. Giles, H. Cox. E.
Shnto, stroke), 1.
All-England Eleven v. Victorian Eleven. Vic-
toria, first innings, 251—Blackham 66, Edwards 65,
M’Donnell 51. Bonnor 26, M’Shene 22. All-England,
first innings, 146—Bates 43, Scotton 28, Shaw 23, Bar-
low 12, Emmett 11; second innings, 198—Shrewsbury
(not out) 80, Barlow 42, Selby 23. Bates 19. Victoria,
second innings, 75-Boyle 43, Palmer 14 All England
won by 18 runs, yet Monday's News told ns, “ English
cricketers getting a terrible thrashing in Melbourne."
We hope the N. S. Wales team will be thrashed in the
same fashion.
The present team of English cricketers com-
pare favourably with any previous team, both in
appearance and manners. Their costume is a blue cap,
silk shirt, and the usual flannel unmentionables. One of
the members is Scotton, hence the silk shirt. At every
place they play, the local bowler, batsman, or wicket-
keeper is acknowledged to be the best they have met in
the colonies. This, coupled with the fact that the
genial Jack Conway pilots, and the popular Lillywhite
umpires them, makes them liked better even than their
cordiality and gocd fellowship entitle them to be.
Dr. Carver defeated Mr. Pennell in the pigeon
shootmg match, at Hendon, on October 23, for £lOO,
shooting 43 out of 50, 30 yards rise, to his opponent's
31. On October 25, the Doctor shot two matches with
Mr. W. Crawshay, for £lOO. The first, 100 starlings,
46 at 28 yards rise, the remainder at 30 yards, was won
by Mr. Crawshay, who shot 81 to the Doctor’s 79. The
second, 100 pigeons at 30 yards rise, was won by Dr.
Carver, who shot 93 to Mr. Crawshay’s 82. Dr. Carver
afterwards defeated Mr. Crawshay, shooting 78 out of
100 pigeons, and 72 out of 100 starlings, 30 yards rise.
It is stated that Iroquois, when he was defeated
by Bend Or, was scarcely fit. He did not look so bright
and blooming as at Doncaster, where his was “ polished
enough for a man to shave by.” After hia defeat, he
was enveloped ia a suit of sweaters aud was given half-
a-dozen canters of s : x furlongs each and two half-speed
gallops. The next day ho won the Newmarket Derby in
a common hack canter. This is something startling
for trainers. Monmouth’s defeat in the Sydney Darby
is ascribed to the heavy preparation that was made, and
Zulu’s Melbourne Cup victory is accounted for by his
week’s rest before the race. Are these flukes, or are
the ethics of training being proved defective ?
The Printers’ third annual picnic and regatta,
at Athol Gardens, en Saturday, was very successfully
carried out. The visitors “distributed” themselves
about the ground, some engaged in the mazy, others
“set-up” “full-face” to the scene of the regatta, and
found "matter” of great enjoyment in the various
events. The rowing was mostly a “ copy" of the “ old
style," and the contestants, as a rule, wore “caps,’
Tho event was of a most respectable " type” of down
the-harbonr affairs; as a “proof,” no one got into
qnocl. Following are the results .—Apprentices’
Sair-oared race : A. Ireland, J. Perkins, 1; F. M'Mahon.
minims, 2; T. Gather, J. Eatcliff, 3; won easily,
single sculling race : J. Degotardi 1; K. Fairweather 2 ;
E. Lee 3; good race; won easily at finish. Double
o* race : J. Degotardi, A. Ireland. 1; T. Croft, J.
2;, A, G. Young, C. Mallesch, 3. Pair-oared raee :
H. Dickinson, E. Daly, 1; C. A. Yager, E. Beard, 2 ; won
easily, the form of the winners being much admired.
Single sculling race : A. Ireland 1; R. Lee 2; H. E. Paul
* ' i? race, won by a length. Four-oared race was a
walk over. Double sculling race : E. Fairweather, J.
Degotardi, 1; J. E Pegg, J. Morgan. 2. Gig and dingy
race: Won by gig (H. Dickinson) in 8 minutes.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
*^u C^? ver J^ e^ourne youth and a local exponent
f? 1 D oble art" fought at Enog<era, Queensland,
the other day, for £5O a side. After 42 rounds of very
heavy bruising the Queenslander w0n.... Captain Swann,
well known in the Far North, has offered to walk for a
wager from Georgetown to Townsville, 300 miles, without
anything to eat or a’rink, water excepted The
Wallsend racecourse gates and booths for the 26th* and
27th, sold for £342 The mother of the lad Dodd, who
died from injuries received whilst riding in the Mel-
bourne Cup, has had £5O granted to her by the
committee of the V.B.C. out of the Jockeys’ Fund
recently instituted. A cricket match between amateur
and professional riders »to be played for her benefit.
Water-pipes are being laid around the Flemington
course In the sweep proseeution, the Melbourne
police failed to prove that “Adamastor" and L. A.
Pereira were one and the same person The Coolalta
wine trophy is to take the form of a handsome silver
cup, open to all amateurs in Queensland, to be rowed
two months hence At the first regatta at Torrens
Lake, on Saturday, held under the auspices of the
South Australian Bowing Association, the Mayor’s
Challenge Cup was won by a Port Adelaide crew, who
also won the Association Fours In the match for the
Junior Challenge Cup, on Saturday, between the
Osborne and Excelsior clubs, C. Brown for the former
scored 121 not out, winning Mr. Summerfield’s trophy
of a suit of clothes for the first player reaching the
century. The scores stand: Osborne, 241—C. Brown
(not out) 121, Anderson 32, Pearce 20, Moore 20, Lucas 16.
Hogg 18 Excelsior, 6 wickets for 20—J. Lutton 13)
Comia’s Challenge Cup, Cootamundra, Saturday.
Cootamundra v. Burrowa C. C. C.: 225—Murdoch (not out)
125, Simpson 40). B.CC.: Grand total, 190 Armidale
defeated by Uralla in one innings Our Boys v. Austra-
ban, Saturday—O.B. C.C. 69 (Collins 22, Yarley 13); A.
C.C. 35.. .Clev eland v. Hero of Waterloo C.C. at Eveleigh
(9^r' P f yn6 17 • Drawbridge, not out, 11) ;
H.W.C.C. 58 (Watson 13, Pople 11, not out) Josh
Pickersgill says the Lancaster Park cricket and
sports ground, Christchurch, N.Z., is the finest he has
ever gazed on or trod on It is said that the N.Z.
Gaming and Lotteries Act is inoperative. At Welling,
ton the detectives took the names of persons who in-
dulged in a ss. sweep, but the public made a determined
stand against police interference with sweeps, while
totalisatora and bookmakers were not meddled with.
To afford a test case, the stewards, including Sir W*
Fitzherbert and his sons, Mr. H. F. Bell, barrister, and
the Hon. J. Martin, drew a hat sweep in the presence of
the detectives, who were invited to witness it. How-
ever, at latest, no action taken Laycock sold his
two wager-boats in Brisbane, where, by the way, a
“workingman’s rowing club’’ is being instituted..
The Croydon C.C. defeated the Oriental C.C. on.
Saturday. Oriental, 36. Croydon, 7 wickets for 39.
* * *
The American yachtsmen, after the victories of
the Scotch boat Madge, are going in for the cutter rig
....William M’Donald, who rode Foxhall for the
Cesarewitch Cup, and who received £2OOO for his win
was killed in riding for the Liverpool Cup Foxhall is
a bright bay, with a white near hind heel His height
is about 15 hands 3 inches At New York, October 14.
Courtney Won the Professional Single Scull Bace, three
mile?, 500 dollars, Eiley second, Lee third: time, 20
5? ln ; sec The American contingent offered to back
Foxhall against Bend Or for one or two thousand
pounds aside, weight for age, for a mile and a half, bat
the offer was declined Mr. Keene is the owner of a
yearling brother to Foxhall, for whom he gave £lOOO,
the highest price ever paid for a yearling in America
1 oxhall was first purchased by Mr. Keene, for £l2O
25’, Fi 4 ZS 1 ral f’ * e ° retai T of the Marylebone
Cricket Club, England, died on October 28 Bend Or
Ims terminated his brilliant racing career, and gone to
the stud. ....The London Spoilsman, of November 1
gives a full account of our Walker Whisky contest, but
the letter is dated from Melbourne! On October 31
at Leicester, E. Howell defeated F. Cooper for the one
mile championship of England and a stake of £5O, doing
the distance m 2 min. 55 sec The fight between Pilot.
i 7 r j c dog, and Crib, the Louisville dog, for
1000 dols. aside, took place near Louisville on October
19. A large number of sporting men from all over
the country were present. 7000 dols. changed hands
£“ e fa savage gtruggie °f nearly a n hour and a half!
Pilot killed Crib A prize fight took place three miles
from Birmingham, on Sunday, October 31. It lasted an
hour, and was not interrupted.
Messrs. John Tait, Junr., and Co.’s
New Warehouse.
The promises which we illustrate were the scene of a
fire, which gave rise to a trial that ranks among the
causes cilebrcs of this colony. Since that event, they
have been almost reconstructed from top to bottom*
and fitted up for the purposes of Messrs. Tait and Co.’s
increasing business. The fixtures and fittings are Of
polished Maryborough pine, and have a pretty and
cheerful light effect, thoroughly in keeping with the
class of goods displayed, which, being of the very
newest and most fashionable designs, are exceedingly
attractive and tempting. The occupants of obese pro-
mises, which are situated in Barrack-street, next to
the Government Saviags’ Bank, are Messrs. John Tait,
janr., and Co., a new and energetic firm, comprising
Mr. John Tait, junr., lately a partner in the firm of
Wilson, Tait, and Co., and well-known as a son of the
veteran sportsman, Mr. John Tait, of Eandwick; Mr.
Frank Milstead, of London, a buyer of many years
standing for the Australian soft goods trade, a gentle'
man of great experience and ability, and long and favour'
ably known in the home market. The third partner is
HJr, Walter Nick loss, late warehouse manager for
Messrs Young and Lark, of this city, and for many
years connected with the trade, Mr. Nickless has
numerous friends in the colony who all wish him suc-
cess in his new venture; and, as the throe partners are
business men of energy and integrity, wo doubt not
that they will have no cause to regret the decision
which actuated them in opening their new Men’s and
Ladies’ Mercery and Fancy Drapery Warehouse.
MESSRS. JOHN TAIT, JUNR., AND CO.’S NEW WAREHOUSE, BARRACK STREET.


wm
A.Q.THOMSON & C 9
PROPRIETORS
This rare old o cotch, Blend
i ddtstinguisTi ed by ha, v ir\g a bouquet
a'S-Snfirie-.old matured wines'.**'*-
GILCHRIST, WATT, AND CO.
SOLE AGENTS FOE NEW BOOTH WALES.
1 BENT STEEET, SYDNEY.
W
street*
ANTED, an ENGEAVEE on WOOD.
Apply, E, and F. W. MASON, 121 Elizabeth-
SOCIAL.
11 Y 6 oMe EnglySho Eayre " opened ,oH 13th at
Melbourne; bjr an excellent speech froth Bishop Moor-
nonse. With regard to its object, the building fund of
Holy Trinity Church, Balaclava, he said, beneficence
jevar. not always spontaneous, bat required to be stimu-
Uted. one this wak fine ,pt (he yejy way's—it wopld
p&vo ho gross’, improper accompaniments, while it was
Instructive. The fair represented an old street, two-
storied houses on each side, and a Chelsea bun-house at
one end Flower stall. May-pole, Gipsy tents, old
painted swinging signboards. Punch and Judy show,
shooting gallery, post-office, astrologist and alchemist,
Christmas-tree, and electric light were some of the
features. Lady stall-holders all in old-fashioned drcas.cs
ot the Tudor, Stuart, and early Brunswick times. T*o
Beef-eaters at the door, sit feet and a half high, were
ft inner, the cricketer, and Percy Brown, Habbe, of
the Opera House, painted the scenery. David Lse
biased old the organ. . Thirty thousand visitors
lb loiir days. Fifteen thousand Chelsea buns sold.
* 4 *
A Sydney man now visiting the “ Southern
Babylon,” writes : — 11 In default of being Florentine, or
even Della Cruscan, Melbourne seems determined on
being at least Early English. Wo’vohad a local edition
of’ye old o English Fayro * In the Melbourne Town
H >ll, and a start . ha 3 been given to a profitable
lilhdEeiiionti iMilSh shbtild hhcSme iibjmla*. Of coilrse,
this kind, fit thing Is familiar enough at home by this
lime, but it may bo interesting to observe how tho
Colonial attenlht siicqeetled. The bal) ( was arranged in
thh fashion of a street q£ the olden tinic-p* ot ya davea
told of lii storye, when Englsode wn» tr«rHe Fngl«r)de.*-
Aloflg filch Side ffftS a row of quiintly-gabled booths,
Wth appropriate signs, such p.a ‘ Ye Sylverne Shield?, ’
* Y’e Hit it Baype,* Ac. At one end of the street, were
a sw .rd and "copse, with the tents of gipsies and
»ttologfeirs tngrootl; Ncp.r .this a .large, #nd pke gay
sypole, fionfjnciionsly garnished the not? Inevit-
able BtitfloWer, held the pride of place; while at the
Other end the view w?s closed by the olde Chelsea Ban
House. The costumes of the ladies presiding at the
stalls, and of their assistants, of course, aided the
effect wonderfully, and may be said to have const'tuted
the chief feature of tho seems Stately dames in gold,
embroidered velvet bodice and voluminous train, and
VHnsOme maidens in IbS coil ftnd kirtle and enSfrootis
Sifts and banging sleeves of tl*e_gd!doti days of Gideon
ess. flitted to and fro, lendlilg grade ftiid enchdiltmcnt
to the fa.vre. It ectmed as thodgh the griiii old as-
ttologif (Mr. Cosmo Newbery) by a wave of his magic
f?knd had really conjured hack the past, with all jts
feidry and colour of romance, and its halberdiers, its
qaaiftt spectacles, and its powder add patches, Theie
Is edine little confu ion here, fly tlie way ; for while the
prim maiden and her cavalier of the time of Elizabeth
seemed In accord with the period the fair represented,
the powdered hair and patches of the last century
scarcely co-operated with a Marie Antoinette costume,
or that of a vivacious vivandiere, to preserve the unities
of the affair. These anachronisms, however, terved to
diversify the scene, without decreasing its pictnresque-
nofS in any way. On Saturday evening the fayre pre-
sented the appearance df a faflOy ball-. It was a gala
flight. Music, gay pleasauncb and biiglit eyes, ana all
the mysterious .art of the costnmiore, were
eicept Here might be seen the Duchess of
Gainsborough, with her large pink lined hat, almost as
large as the starched rnff of that other fair one, whose
idoed black velvet and pointed Hat would well become
Amy Robsart. Here, at the Wheel of fortune, in a red
bodice and cap, with spangles and embroidery, is a
brunette young lady who might be the original of that
beautifully.sculptured bust so attired, in the Sydney
Art Gallery; and here, in a powdered wig and short
bright crimson skirt, and richly coloured three-cornered
hat is a graceful vivandiere who might be a Milanese
peasant or a masquer at a Roman carnival. Pleasant
faces and pleasing manners were there—hut scarcely
pny face that one Would Chfiose to e*preSs his ideal of
the ebarftetei-n represented. One only—that of a visitor
in plain white—posseaesd a title to linger In tho memory,
and that rather because of its own sweet gentleness of
expression, and speaking eyes, than for any accessory
of costume. This lady evidently understood the sim-
plex mundiiis theory. Some quaint old 15th century
ballads were well and appropriately sung by Miss Chris-
tian, and the organ recitals of Messrs. Torrance I who
masqueraded in tho birßttft and cassock 6f an Ultra-
montane cleric) and Lee wefle appreciated. The affair
answered Its object admirably. Will Sydney follow
Bait, and give tho girls a treat ?
• • « ■
In tho T. and C. Journal of December 10th,
that talented person "Gipsy,” gives a half-cohimn
account of the Miranda ball t telling how, " last Week,"
the gallant tars entertainfli the fait lauies oil tneit
Vessel, the "prosaic main deck” being converted into
a scene of beauty, and after a night’s enjoyment, con-
voyed them to shore again in " steam launches.” It’s
one ot the most interesting items we over read. TV hat
a pity it’s got about as much foundation as has
tho Town-hall. There was no " last week,” no
main deck, no vessel, no steam launch in tho whole
affair. The last week, dating from December 10, was
tho wee 1 ! before last. The main deck was Needs’ con-
servatory; and the steam launches were cabs, which
glided through the phosphorescent water up Liverpool-
street.
• • •
A Sydney lady has, or rather had, four servants,
who, the other day, came to her and said they were
going to leave for the holidays. The very natural con-
sequence of this kind of thing, which occurs very
frequently, is that the dirty, devout, and impudent
Bridget Molloy and Mary Murphy are being slowly, but
surely, supplanted bv tho clean, heathen, and ueas-
suming Ah Man and Too Sing.
* « •
Trouble at Qoulburu—where a holy man, whom
the irreverent have christened "Bishop of Marulan,"
has got himself disliked through celebrating a marriage
between a young man and ft girl under age, without the
concent of tho Jatttr’e guardian.
* * •
Listen, ladies. They are made wide, like Turk-
ish garments, with a deep flounce at the bottom, and,
as this combines with the skirt worfl over them, only a
most careful observer would know, etc. It is a fact
that this "rational dress,” as it is called by tho Ladies’
Dress Reform Association, is actually being worn now
in London. A description is given iu a home paper of
two ladies who were seen so clothed lately, and they
Wetß said to look very well, and in no wise outrj. The
dress is comfortable and tree, and when a long skirt is
worn, there is nothing objectionable, as in the vulgar
Bloomer costume of some years ago. Black brocaded
silken material was worn by tho two ladies alluded to,
and looked quiet and natural.
• * *
Mr. Needs entertained the pupils of his juvenile
classes at a ball, last week, and about 2CO of the jevnesse
had a high old time. Many parents were present
Midi watched their hopefuls gliding threugh the mazy
mazurka and the whirling waltz with much paternal aad
maternal satisfaction The children enjoyed themselves
thoroughly; in fact—to use a favourite expression at
the late Czar of Russia—they were "right in It."
Proceedings opened with a polonaise march. There
isn’t any dancing in this ; it’s a sort of walk-ronnd-and-
show-your-pretty-dres-i manoeuvre, and it was finished
by tho company passing in procession before the Mayor
and Ma; cress, who stood in state in the drawing-room,
and to whom each couple gave a nod. or now, or duck
of the head, according to tluir individual ideal of the
proper way to salute a real live Mayor. All the children
were beautifully attired, many in fancy characters.
For instance, a bright handsome boy took the role of
Bambini, and acted the part with unflagging
spirit throughout the evening, being accompanied
by the Duo Della Volta—both excellently
dressed. Then there was a miniature nobleman, who
called himself Sir ’i homes Clifford (Charles 11. reign).
This celebrated leader of the Cabal Ministry was about
six years old and three feet high, but the make-up was
perfect. A Jockey of about four stone was in a blue
silk jacket, with boots and pants all complete, and the
chief civic magnate gazed on him with paternal com-
placency. Folly, iu black and yellow, red and blue,
with scores of hells, was very good; and sweet seven-
teen in a Spanish character, pink and black lace, with
large pink roses, was extremely pretty Ruth, the
piratical maid-of-all-work, heavily loaded with chains,
was a faithful copy, and very attractive. A tall young
lady as Pinafore formed a contrast to a mite in military
attire. A Sailor, about the height of a two foot rule,
found a difficulty in filling his programme, for when led
«p to a young lady, whose Waist lie eottld only reach
flrlth the dirt of ft Stocjl, s|le Said she didn’t OaM about a
idrtiiff nliB -daS ‘‘ ot\'y .ft tittle bdy .Of five and, S
quartet.”. During the evening a jtfraafl rfo'J by
twklvf young.,children; and the slow, stately, ttipfei
ments, performed with all tho unaffected ease ot child.
Mpqd, looked vjpndqjfiilly pretty, A Highland fling by
twelve followeu, and the pibtnru of those^ twelve little
fairies, in all their childish enjoyment of tee spirited
dance, their lithe freedom of limb and unconscious
grace, ought to bare been enough to demolish anyone’s
prejudices agains; the "muse or the mmy twinkling
feet." A hornpipe, by ft little girl tyLjsnilor costume
and big hat, included about sixteen aiUaroift “ s*epi."
and the small danseu-e was awarded lots of praise. The
supper tables received great attention, and as ladies and
gentleman, when very young, have always good appe-
tites, and are not sufficiently civilized to be ashamed of
tb*m, their in tbfi refotshment department were
thorougniy conscientious. XMcoftltWus Ware nloatltnl
—flowers in the drawing-room, ferns in the cool con-
sorvatory, and fliga everywhere. A novelty in lighting
Consisted of ornamental burners in the shape ot small
trees, fgom every branch.ot which came a little jet of
ops. Apron’s 3oU«n jsandlentick w ( ou.ld a paltry
Concern alongside taoS3 tree burner*. . A, Jireakjup
was made between 1 and 2 o’c’ock, and rhe coming iccn
and women voted it all jolly.
*•• - •
St. Andrew's College Literary and Debating
(Jpciety, gate, theii annual entertainment on December
loth. The largo Hill Wfts beautifully, decorated, and
crowded to excess. Some of Australia’s faii'esl flowers
had evidently dressed with exquisite taste for this
auspicious occasion, with a view of getting into the
good graces pf the collegians. Some handsome cos-
tomes were wortj by „tne Judies on the platform. A
duet, “ Army ana Novy,” ,ras well given j the would
bo sailor has a good voice and sings tfitH expression.
A lady, dressol in violet silk trimmed with.deep
Honiton iacv, sang " Cornin’ thro’ the rye" so expres-
sively, that it stirred plpaeant memories in tho hearts ot
tic old Scotchmen present. She was twice encored.
Further on ir tub evening, tho eamj lady sang “ They
needn’t come courting to me," as i- cofl’cclons of some
damage done through tho other song. An enchanting
tall brunette, dressed in cream-coloured figured silk
and muslin, with scarlet flowers, sang “At the ferry,’’
and, being encored, sang “ Steering" so feelingly
that she must be “ a loss that loves a sailor,” A short
dark kdy, dfeSsed in a tastefully made green sateen,
give. “O fair doVe.” lief pretty lisp changed the
we’res "d. pfy Hrte With & tptio. tilde heart:" into " O
niy Idre tsitk a too-tod heart." Jifdgfilg ffcjril the fix
pression on a collegian’s face, in tho. second row- the
Iwo too hearts were not a hundred yards apart. After
the Natipn.il, Autnom and three cheers for the Princi-
pal, .these riteiry Andrews escorted their friends to tho
door. , , .
i i *
A distinguished cricketer, of ifotrev)’ descent,
will shortly marry a Five Dock lady.
• • •
The social sensation of last week, at Ballarat,
was the marriage of Mr. George Purves, brother of the
Well-known Melbourne barrister, and particularly well-
knofm ih .spotting circles, to Mias Miller, niece
of Mr. S. Mann, solifc’itdr, Dong accounts in the local
papers.
• • *
.There was a juyenijo fancy ball at Warwick
Hall, Newtown, on Monday night; given by Mr. Alfred
Bead. Over a hdndred. children were present, and
seemed to enjoy themselves. A feiitiijc waa that the
ball commenced in the afternoon ana waa over by
Tommy’s usual bed time.
• • •
On Saturday, last, Mr. Johnson, of the Orient
Company, and the officers of the Orient and Cotopaxi,
arranged a pleasant excursion down the harbour. The
guests, Including many Irvlies, were conveyed by a
steamer to PeSrl Bay; Whefe amusements Went on till
tho recherche repost provided by tho stewards of, those
vessels was ready. Embarked again about 7, and
finished the night by dancing on board tho Cotopaxi.
• • • , *• '
Anyone who went to tho St. Mark’s bazaar, in
tho Garden Palace, filled with tho usual fearful fore-
bodings of persecution, must hrvo been pleasantly
disappointed. There was no imnoiitj persistence in
asking visitors to Most articles on the stalls were
marked plainly at prices not surprisingly high, and the
raffles were fair. Darling Point waa largely represented
among tho etallkeopcrs, and no doubt contributed most
of the flowers which were so plentiful! v vissiblo. Music
and refreshments were also provided. If every “sale
of ififts” Were like St. Mark’s, such affairs would be loss
objectiofadbilfi.
# * 6
To-day (Thursday), headmaster Weisa bre’aks
up his Modern High School for tho holidays. Prizes
distributed atGlammis Hall. Mr. John Davicv, C M.Q.,
radiates bis glorious smiles on the boys. Impromptu
dance follows.
e • •
Mr. T. E. Smith, member for the Nepean, gave
an enjoyable picnic to a nilmber of friends, on Saturday,
at Wentwortnville, near Parramatta. A special train
left Bedfem about 10 a.m., taking many members of
Parliament, piominout citizens, and ladies. The guests
enjoyed themselves dancing on the " gracious slopes of
fair green hills,” as the only Henry puts It, to the
strains of the Cumberland Band, and indulged In cricket,
quoits, and other vagaries, to say nothing of the flirting.
The young ladies were for the most part attired in simple
picnic style: an auctioneer’s daughter from North
Annandale, a young lady from Bourke-street. tho
daughter of the host, and others, looked well. Cater-
ing by the City Co. Eeturn by special train about
3 p.m.
* • «
Scarborough (in Yorkshire* Eng.) must be an
elysinm for those who are fond of dancing, which is
carried on in grand style every night daring tho season
in one or oilier of the fashionable hotels. Introductions
are not difficult, but everything in the ball rooms is
conducted with as much punctilious decorum as at
Willis’s Rooms, or even a State ball. A little friendly
rivalry occurred at tho Grand Hotel lately, between Sir
Charles Forbes and Mr. H. Wheeler, while dancing the
Vienna Polka. When they warmed to it, the lookers-on
had a treat. Tnese two gentlemen bear the reputation
of being the test polka dancers in England,
* * #
The annual breaking-np parly was given at
Toxtoth Villa. Glebe Point, last Tl nrsday, to pupils
and friends. The little daughters of an M.P., and of
the city architect, also three daughters of a well-known
itafoaer, and a trio from Hereford-sfcreet, looked
charming. A graceful brunette and a flaxen-haired
maiden were noticed, as well as others, all of whom we
have not space to particularise. Presents were handed
to the Misses O’Connor from the pupil?, together with an
address. Voeal and instrumental music and dancing
filled the evening. There was a creditable display of
fancy and needle work and drawings.
* * «
Till now, whenever the Tumut maidens became
love sick, or any other sick, they had to travel to that
little hill-tide township on the Murrumbidgee, to con-
suit tbo bachelor doctor there, before there waa any
possibility of getting well. And the happy life of the
young medico was like a dream of Paradise and houris,
as the girls came one after the other, entreating him to
feel their hearts, because they knew something was
wrong. Bat it’s all over now. The Tumnt girls have
got a bachelor doctor of their own, and they come
rounu him and sing, "tike any heart, take mine."
until he feels like the new iboy in tho kily-shop, <md
doesn’t know which to take first. And the girls, bnoyed
with hope, bask under his bachelor smile, and in voices
broken with emotion, sigh, "Oh! this is Tnmutch,
Tumut-oh." Helgho I he’s happy who is a bachelor of
•hearts and medicine in a mountain township.
Great activity amongst the sewing machine
companies. It appears that the Australian market ha*
been flooded with counterfeit imitations of the world-
renowned “ Singer,” of inferior construction and manu-
facture, under various names, which, by the way, were
very pointedly referred to in the judges’ report on the
Sydney Exhibition. And so the Singer Co. hvve goue
on the war-path, and have opened sub-depots in New-
castle, Bathurst, Qoulburu, Tam.worth and Graftou.
The chief depot for New South Wales is at No. 1 Dar-
ing stores. Harbour-street Sydney. Latest betting
1,000,000 l f £8 " Signer."
VANITY FAIR.
. Sirs, ihvgirj kfc<Brf# faiititeid by s!f. Whistler,
the artist who paints “ JwrfnjfphieJ in Wad,” pda ' ?*■'
rlijgements.la white and gfeen/” aud ,of Whom Mr.
ifnskiu wrote that he .was “ a coXconlh'/ wh*o flung a?
pot c: pairit in the face of the public,”-whence afttte ft
libel action. Several of the host EqgUsh portrait
painters have put “ the Jersey Lily.” op canvas, bnlj it
was as one of “ Frank Miles’s Studies * that phe first
formal, a beautiful, picture...... Russian fashioi-a?lfS(
who are 6*lll i» half monrnin’g for the late Czar, wear
chiefly dresses ot Violet, white, maure, heliotrope, and
grey A new fabric ia a hedlftr ,-, l Ti#kj?h satin,' which
lathe sun varies its hues, chameieon-;ilt9>-Iron deep
Venetian green to a rich golden shade. It cofffblneq
well with bronze, golden green, dark green, or admiral
yjflg The Paris Opera, not yet completed, has cost
£2,100 000; the fiew Post Office and Hotel de Vide will
cost £ 1 800,000; the Church of the Sacred Heart will
cost £1,000,00) Pompadour prints, ’ socqnch worn
last summer, are now giving way to ginghamg. Puyc
and bine are favourite colours, and the material is fresu-
moklng, cool, and inexpensive. Zephyr ginghams are
avcrylig’ht and prfitty falrio A delicately-timted
cotton material callfa cfapftjoloth, is becoming popular,
being very Ught, and made in fftfttv ftojora. Patterns
are stamped on some, some are quite p,&i2......g|jD9t of
the light washing draseei are made with drawn mo-Eef
Hubbard bodices, and s’ceves either drawn at elbow
and wfiist, or with large Ma-gaarita puff at elbow and
t*gf!t a * i7rist.ijn.ln parasols, tho latest shape is square,
a pretty one is of satin with ooriinal
lining and gold bare, another is rfladft of cream
lace lined with pink, the. pink and er&iic ootqbiniag
very happily. China nobs are inserted at the end of ffla
handle, or the entire < urve is of china The " bangle”
are mounted in silver, and have a silvar
bangUaprf 'dialti to attach to tho wrist; these can be
taken off when ...Jersey silk gloves are much
worn, bat are expensive,’ nWyft bf&Uag into,holes
after very little n e. Many scnefrtles Have adopt cd
to enhance tho appearance ot kid gloves j Ciubroidet -■<>
backs lace i uertiona at the wrist, Iv.ces irisfead if
butt. 779, Ao., but the latest style is having strips ST
ot different coVrc* kid between the fingers, pink with
slate, brown with black; and soon Those who buy
pompadours, or figured sateens,- Should always take care
that the pattern is a certain size; Botha patterns are
pretty when closely examine! in the piece. i)ut When
made up the effect is lost at » few paces off, ftrid
Only A War Pf indifferent colour is visible. On
the other, hand, ,tod fcfgft » pattern looks loud. ....
'ffcV brnufy of the seisin at Washington (U.S A,)
is Mrs MoofS; fllfe.Hf the ntemhefi of Ccmgrass for Ten-
nessee Through tfio.noii jftfyMont of la Ireland.
some widows, spinsters, atidtiitants am dthefS have
been actually rendered destitute, as tlleif incomes Wore
from Irish estates. Tho curious anomaly arise?* there-
fore, pf raising subscriptions for proprietors of estates.
Mr Frank Miles has been commissioned by the
Prince of V.alH to .draw his three daughters. Every-
one who looks into a sno* Window must have seen the
lovely faces produced by this clfVsfi artist. His last
commission may not give him a chance to jwduge great
loveliness, but it will probably bring grist to tn« pf‘l.
Smith and Elder (London) are publishing a Birth.
day BoOk designed by the Princess Beatrice. It will be
splendidly bound, atld sold at £2 2s The daughter ot
Prince Alhetfs faletrrftrried last memth; festivities at
Windsor Castle.. ...The new stables jdst built for Cor-
nelius Vanderbilt In New York tire ptflfttial hi Bplfmdonr,
and his horses will awdll iU greater Idiurj> than man J
princes do At a festive gathering given by John W.
Maokay, the American bonanza king, in Paris, in place
of a band, achemus of voices were used to “ sing" the
waltzes. The eflefit paid to be unique and charming.
The dulcet tones of fch3 s?u*era Wended harmoniously
with the footfalls of the danders fftffldu g in time
Umritza cashmere is much approved, CCliTurs are
charming, and both the thicker and thinner shadfs
drape well; it wears excellently, besides being rever-
Bible Two stuffs of different patterns should never
be worn irt one dress; one patterned material and one
phtinoimttfie as much S 3 the eye can easily take in at
once Owe a debt of .gratitude
to a.E.Ht. the Princess ot Wales, fcfc hefi spifiited pro-
test against that hldoods abbrtifln; the crhfolinft, of
crinoletto. She has always set her face dgd irfst inno-
vations of al-md, unwomanly, or sensslass character.
For true womanly werth, tho Empress Eugenie, HOW*
ever brilliant she may have been, compares very poorly
with our Princess of Wales Some wadding slippers
have 17ory heels...... Dark bronze green and the “pink
of perfection” divide pspular favour between them for
drosses, but the pink specially SUlfcs young girls, while
the green Uoks elegant on ladies dt mature? age
When the Chinese Emperor travels among hiSbelotod
subjects, he gets in tho middle ot one hundred mefl
dressed exactly like himself, and tho Celestial Qniteaus
got as mad as tho very mischief trying to aim at the
right man One day the Prince of Wales, just as a
leviSe commended) found himself without gloves. No
waiting was practicable, and as no one else could wear
gloves when H.R H. didn’t, the ceremony was pro-
ceeded with barehanded Copper colour la coming
in demand. Two costumes seen not long ago looked
pretty. One was a velvet dress of a rich shade, called
cigar-brown, trimmed sparingly with copper-coloured
satin, the brown velvet bonnet being trimmed with
copper-coloured lace and feathers. The other was
black satin merveillenx trimmed with copper-coloured
cord and beads of the same reddish-orange tint. A
wreath of autumn leaves shaded from pale yellow
through graduations of orange tinted with red, enoiicled
the small black chip bonnet.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
It is said that in less than a month Maryborough
(Q.) will have two daily papers The Spencer-street
(Melbourne), railway station is to bo illumined by the
electric light. So are the grain sheds The man who,
at Perth, W A., attempted to murder Mr. Grey Hamil-
ton, has escaped from prison The other day, some-
one entered tho FoevDouglas Gazette (N.Q.) office,
scored tho formes from top to bottom, smashed a quan-
tity of type, and then set fire to the place. Fire ex-
tinguished, however, before much harm done Mr.
Hildcr, father of lha Miss Hildtr with whose man-
slaughter at Maryborough, Vie., Dr. Jackson was
charged, has brought an action, at Melbourne, against
tho doctor, to recover £4OO, money lent Calls at
Sandhurst this year averaged £16,000, dividends £20,000
per month Aboriginal troopers in the Qnemslaad
native police get £3 per month, with uniform and
boot®. Is. 51. per day is deducted from their pay for
rations; the remainder the trackers have no difficulty
in dipposing of At Mantflald (Vic.), Mr. Curtis,
editor of the Delatitb Free Press, has been fined si.
and costs for assaulting Mr. Doidgo, the editor of the
local Guardian, with a whip handle A baby-boy,
sixteen months old, and just able to toddle, was lost
in the bush fer fourteen hours between Mittama and
Colac. When found, he did not seem as if he had been
crying, bat he had a worn, pld man look on his face
Mrs. Garrett, who lost her husband in the Jolimont
railway smash, claims £6OOO Melbourne Argus
ferretting out the ring who manufacture “ Hollands
gin,” in Melbeurne collars. There is at present poison
in the square bottle. If the Argus attempted
such an expose in Sydney, it would probably be let
in for £2OOO costs Da Costa and Sjmon, for de-
frauding Kronheimor and Co., Melbourne, sentenced to
three and a-half and four years’ gaol respectively
Civil proceedings will probably be taken by the banka
against the Adelaide tradesman who has been circulat-
ing a colourable imitation of bank notes by way of
advertisement 76 tons from the Ellen Harding claim,
Gympie, gave 219 oz Fresh borings on the Burrum
River (Q ), prove the existence of splendid seams
of coal, extending hack for miles on either side of the
river The man arrested at Wagga, on snspicion of
being Andrew Dignam, one of the murderers of the
brothers Pohlman, at Narandera. many years ago, has
been discharged A man named Hammond has found
some human remains at Cooper’s Creek, Brisbane, sup-
posed to be thoso of a man lost in 1879 A woman
named Vann was kicked to death at Sandridge, Melb.,
by a lumper’s wife A girl of 17 years eloped with
a Sydney bagmen from Rockhampton. All search
aboard ship failed to discover her, but on the vessel
getting to sea she emerged from her hiding-p1ace......
Iron works have been started at Mount Pleasant, near
Wollongong; the iron turned out is said to be of I a
superior quality i 5000 granted to secure a recreation
ground for Maitland There have of lata been an
extraordinary large number of Victorian State school-
teachers charged with indecently assaulting pupils
The new bridge over theNamoi, at Walgett, was opened
kst. *SOL All the thirsty Bgatf-that jg W att
WrtWf, ivh’iCh i) terribly nfllicted with the dry »Wth
and parcllra t«m«ru'i caf«swe—-mastered. In the evotih l#
the contractor Vfas ♦tatcrtifoSil at a sapper, Intoix*
Cants were not prohibited) snd aTJ. the* y'atehss jn
Walgett ran down next day...... The Victorian Enginery
of Railway Construction, having refused to pbyAvdrdw
premium on bis fidelity guarantee nolicy, the JainistCi
has stopped his salary Mr. Gerler, a BriftMa-jf
vlgnerjn, has a Tine bearing over 1000 bunches Oi
gTSpeS..;..;“ Se called me an Irishman,” was the com-
plaint S Pt&ii made lately In a N.Z. police court.
..Tin mining actttfe at Herberton. Total out*
phi for the y«ir. 1414 tons, rahreu at £65,000. The
mails are going dovfa very rich .< wpleadid gold reef found
three rittle*' east, of Ravenswood Continnons exten-
sive land selections at Cairns (Q) An expedition of
ten troopers with h.trstfs and mnlea passed throngn
Herberton on Nov. 27. “to interview the bloodthirsty
efionndrels who have been pestering the locality
for £&5 Vast few weeks.” Sugar interest , a the North
has become se important an industry that it is to be
represented by a journal of its own, the Suoan Pi Hrr.R. ,
Wells a Warden's clerk, charged with embezzle-
ment at Glen Innes Gonlbcra A.P H. Society's first
frwit and flower show was a great success. Over S O
peoiTS present in the evening The Victory Company,
Charters TWefA for a fortnight’s crashing obtained
7770 z. smelted ft**- North Hilton Co., Chari ere
Towers, got 100 iz. in Jt breaking down......UogniTer
well-known Cascade Brewefy,- Hobart, sold to Syme
and Aitkin, of Victoria A pSMtrt scene occurred
cllJta Oi Costa and Symonda, the deffkvlting employe!
of Kroh£si±*?er and Co , Melbourne, canJ9 up f<* sen-
tence. Both iiftfi Cried bitterly.
# # #
German Government negotiating with England
for the cession of Heligoland A thou?and residents
61 Chief zo paid 25 cents a head to hoar an ac’ dress m«B
the spirit ff. the dead President, through the medium*
of one Cora Ridttoruud, a spiritualist. This giffSdlady
represented poor Garfield qs saying that Abe LirftMte
was th. 3 first person ho bellolfl Jn spiritland, and thst
he subse lastly enjoyed the socifty el Washington,
detferson, and Adams Charles Collersew, a stwvivor
Cf the light Brigade charge at Balaclava, and possessor
6f the Victoria Cross, had to go to the worketowbe ta
Ncf„ aid Was received into the Essex Union..,,„Tho
French authorities, fearful ol the Arabs obtaining
wherewithal to make bullets, have prohibited Ihe im-
portation of lead pipit# b/ the English gas company at
Tunis A leading English paper says that the new
ironclad, the Inflexible, is a clumsy useless hulk. She
ertn hardly steam ten knots an hour, and, should sho
ever W into action, she will, it is predicted,
hurt nothing, bnt be speedily sunk Evans,
the notorious American abortionist, has died m
misery. He was a miser, and In his room was found
about £lO,OOO The General Life Insurance Society
of Canada will not now assure innkeepers. Mortality
tdo high Gingerboer contains one per cent, of
alcohol . ,1a London, the fanatics of the Salvation
Army have been attacking the audiences of well-con-
ducted pldoes of entertainment with volleys of tracts
and muscular force, accompanied by much singing of
hymns. The respectable wives of working men aro
loudly requested to abandon the paths of shame......
At a dinner Mr. Christopher Sykes gave to the Prince
oi Walcs/sixteen gentlemen srCpkcd 100 cigars.
Produce Report.
BulleWS Office, Dec. 21,1881.
OP tfea wharves, yesterday, prime g/een lucerne was
selling at J63j second quality £2 Ss. to M 2 50s. Tna
market is ©tors looked with inferior sample of hay,
rihioft are fery diSottU to dispose of at from 20a. to 235,
per iofl. Maize 4s. 61.: oats (prime) 2a. 9d. to Js. »eif
bushel. Mrintt* Riferloaions (new),(ss. to ss. 4d.; dutvv
potatoes (new), 4s. JO3. to ss. ,7<3. per cwt. Victorian
chaff, £5 per ton, bags inclusive? ditto onions (new)
Ss to 95.: ditto potatoes (new), Is. 6u. to 4s. 9d. per
owt. Btrttor (in keg), 7d. to 81. pcf lb. Eggs, 104. to
Is. per dozeil. .Bacon, 6d. to Bd. Haw, lOd. to
Cheese, 64. to 9iL Honey, 4d. to 4(d. Lard, 44. to 94.
Beeswax, 94. to lOd. pdf lb, Millet brooms, to Ww
per dozen.
Poultry, —At the various auctidS Wnrt% poultry, 4c. <
has bean in good supply, and sold fairly, < owls brought
from 2s. 61. to ss. 6d.; duck?, 3s. 6d. to lb, geese,
Ps 01. to 9s. 01 ; cock turkeys, 123, to 25j. ? «*ditto,
si. to la. 01.; Guinea fowls, ss. 9d. per pair. *
Fresh MZAf.—At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s shed?/
Darling Harbour, a fair et»pply of country-killed meat
is daily arriving, the prlncapK! portion of which is of
an inferior quality. Prices arc for prime bodies of
beef, 21.; medium quality, 1*1.; inferior, 1 jd. per lb.
all round.
fja CatTLE —At the Homebush sales, on Monday, »
medlfliit supply of fat cattle was forward, and tho
market was a shade firmer for host quality beef, wmc»
realised from I7s, bl. to 30s. per 1001 b. j inferior,
from 10s.
Fat Sheep,—A heavy supply forward, consisting
principally of inferior to medium quality : silb. wethers,
9a to 9a 61.
Wheat.—There is very little wheat of prime quality
offering, and up to Si. 6d. is asked for any to hand.
We notice that samp’es of the new season a wheat from
Adelaide are to hand, Prices ore—New South Wales,
53. to 53. 61.; Adelaide, 61.; Victorian. 55.; New
Zealand, 4s. 6d.: Launoesttfn, 4s. 91. per bushel.
Flour.— For beat brands of flour our quotations aro
still obtained. Prices are—for Sydney mill “Cur (super-
fine) £l3 per ton ; household, £l2; sCCOTids, £11; New
South Wales, country brands, £l2 to f Victorian
flonr. £ll to £l3; Adelaide, £l2 to flo- P ran
pollard. Is. Id. per bushel.
Note. —We have had complaints that the prices wd
have quoted are, in some instance?, higher than farmers
in the Country have been able to obtain. Our prices
are collated with great care, and are averaged repotw
on actual sales in Sydney. Oar farming subscribers
may rest assured that we will continue to comidSV
thoir interests. Naturally, there are dealers who
would prefer that current prices were quoted always at
a minimum This is precisely what wfl saean to protect
our subscribers against, and in the compilation of our
report no dealer is permitted to have a voice.


BROOK’S SEWING COTTON,
MELTHA M
NEAR HUDDERSFIELD,
->
MILLS,
ENGLAND.
<RADE MARII
nr U m/nafactafedb fc v th<>^ X - IBmON PEIKES is a sufficient guarantee of the superiority of the COTTONS
twf MEDA -L. LONDON FXHTBT TION, 1851.
PPi'/F PRIZE MEDAL. Pah IS EXIBITION. 1855.
PBIZE MEDAL, EXHIBITION, 1862. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 186?.
THE ONLY DIPLOMA OP HONOUR. VIENNA. 1873.
MEDAL AND AWARD, PHILADELPHIA 1576
GOLD MEDAL, SOUTH AFRICA. 1877. GOLD MEDAL, PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878.
ONLY SPECIAL FIRST AWARD, SYDNEY, 1880.
, ASK FOR BROOK’fTSEWING COTTONS.
ALL CORRESPONDENCE SHOULD NOW BE ADDRESSED TO THEIR WAREHOUSE,
Wynyard Lane, Sydney, New South Wales.
A, *
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFJ? COAL.
niHIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
1 THRIFTIEST Household ft.n l Steaming Coal in the Oolony,
lUs. PER TON NET, delivered within City hounds.
This new Coni, with a good draught, and range and bars kent well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting,
and cleaner fire than any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, nor docs
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestie desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cocking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze Are, while it imparts to the
steak none of U»«fe disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOQMOOLOO WHAEF.
482 ate 49- HFORCE STREET ,
msmiM
- m
mm
|| y MARKET GLO TH HALL *
c pn< ~ r THE fir
* >
fpot,) E THE FFAiIT MAfTF r c
i „
F r i*AE ! I'W -
A LARGE and ATT »ifSF I F ' fFD '" TV K
• . OF ' ■' *•
WOO i.LE N S,N E .vV PATT E R i 1 ? ,
s'
Dir.FCT FROM THE MANU FACT UP. F RS,
FASHIONABLE
AKITS
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
■ ■ ; o 7:-, ■■ .m - - ■
TO c OR.DER. i
; all vy 00l -TwEf btro u s e rs, to order, \2k.
Tailors, Drapers, fee.
liTTTit
r ISIT E. BUEGI3’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET;
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for selLmeasuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
JJ AV E YOU
TO
BEEN
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
E
LISE'S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All eommunioations to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
484 GEORGE STREET,
DOLLS WAREHOUSE.
Orders for Pattern? cannot be executed unles? pr©.
paid. Onr cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled
stylo, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
KING STREET, SYDNEY
O / (two doors from Gcorge-strcot),
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMOREST’S Perfect fitting
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS. Newest
styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAMS DEMOREST'S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, la.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
161
KING STREET.
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAMEWEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantics, etc., out in different
sizes for Ladies and Child,
ren furnished with illustra
tions and directions for mak.
ing np. Sold at prices rang,
ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
7
&
&
a
m
M
%
&
$
Tfc*.
m
mm
S 5?
m
m
m
b.
A
D
AVID M‘CALL.
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, Hia
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Bel more.
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and Hia Excellency Lord Augustus Loftua,
K.CJ.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always ou
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddlea’at the
Agri®ultural Exhibition, 1868,1870, 1873, and 1875.
fJIHB LARGEST SALE OP WATCHES
AND JEWELLEEY
Ever held in Sydney.
In consequence of extensive alterations to Premises,
C. HAF E R,
314, Late 328 GEORGE STREET,
Offers his Extensive and Magnificent
Stock of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERT
At a reduction of 50 per cent.
On Original Prices.
POE A FEW WEEKS ONLY.
Call at 314, late 328, George-street, for List of Prices.
M. T H O M A.
IMPORTER OF
WORKS OP ART,
GERMAN AND SWISS WOOD CARVINGS,
ARCADE BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
JJBORGE L'ANK,
IMPORTER OF
(Formerly of George-street,)
CHINA GLASS AND EARTHENWARE,
Bogs to announce that he has EE COMMENCED
BUSINESS in the
SYDNEY ARCADE,
where every article in the above line will bo sold at the
lowest possible price.
GOODS DELIVERED DAILY.
3674 PACKETS SOLD LAST YEAR.
GEAVEUE'S
charming
CHRISTMAS and NEW YEAR CARDS
for 1881.
Twenty Beautiful C irds in each Packet, Post Free for
fifteen 2d. stamps.
The real value of each Packet is sj.
E. GRAVEUR,
196 George-street, Sydney.
FGHANISTAN GOLD
AFGHANISTAN GOLD.
Wears equal to 18-carat gold
Much stronger;than gold
Keeps its colour in any climate.
TO BE HAD ONLY
at
No. 9 ARCADE No. 9.
T
HE
NEW
SYDNEY
ARCADE.
F. C. PASSAU, Jeweller
(23 years with the late H. F. Delarue),
has opened at No. 2, inside the Arcade, George-street
entrance, with a new and choice stock
Of the LATEST DESIGNS in GOLD and SILVER
JEWELLERY,
suitable for Christmas Presents and New Year’s Gifts;
all prices strictly moderate.
An early inspection respectfully (invited.
ROTHERHAM’S
Celebrated Patent Lever Watches from £4 15s.
Genuine Waltham Lever Watches from £3 to £5-
Real Brazilian Pebble Spectacles,
reduced to 83. 6 d, per pair.
Country orders, with remittance, promptly attende 1 to.
T
HE “PENRITH ARGUS’’ will appear on
7th JANL ARY. W. WEBB. Proprietor.
CHARLES GIETZ.
(from Messrs. P. N. Russell and Co.)
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoves, Bakers' Ovens,
Mountings, &o. Off No. 517 George-street (between
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), Sydney.
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap)' PHOTOGRAPHER,
BCS GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his pori rails of Babies and
Children.
Cabtes de Visits, 7s. 6d. pee Dozen.
|3URKE, COULSON, & LEEDS,
■*"* AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBEOKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE.
PARISIAN FRUIT SALT, Is. 6d. per bottle,
is a gentle APERIENT; a BLOOD-PURIFYING
TONIC, and a cooling EFFERVESCING DRAUGHT,
slod by all Chemists and Grocers. S. P. HOGG & CO.,
12 Wynjard-lano.
Hyde park and horse
REPOSITORY,
Adjoining Park House Hotel, Park-street, Sydney.
F. THORNTON GILBERT (original Proprietor in
ISSo of Gibson’s late Horse Bazaar, Pitt-street) will
SELL by PUBIC AUCTION, daily, at the above-named
Yards; and trusts by his undivided attention to the
interests of his constituents, that he -will meet with
that support from his old friends that will justify him
in the belief of future success. Sales at Camperdown,
or elsewhere, will lie attended to with punctuality and
fidelity.
E. THORNTON GILBERT,
Auctioneer,
STEREOTYPE\
-AND „ ~
Foundry
%■ -and—
PRINTERS'
1 WAREHOUSE,
~ S 2 Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
SYDWE-y.
Aho st 70 LITSTE COLLINS GITEE7, MELBOURNE.
THOMAS WEAENE,
ENGINEER & lEONFOUNDEE.
MINING. TEAM, and EAILWAY BOLLING STOCK
GIEDEES,
STOVES, ?
COLONIAL
OVENS, |
DEED
{BOXES,
Ac., &o.
Works; SUSSEX STEEET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW KOOMS, 220 PITT STREET,
WANTED to be known, that the cheapest
place in Sydney for the best Christmas
Groceries is at MORAN’S Cheap Cash Store, 113
CAMPBELL STREET, near Riley-street. AU orders
punctually attended to.
FISE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOOES.
THE KOOKABURRA.
We have heard mufth about the habit girls have
of sitting on one leg. It’s a very bad one, particularly
if the leg doesn't belong to the young lady.
Murray Smith to be Victorian Agont-General.
Sm<l that Dr. Eenwlck succeeds Mr. Hoskins
in the Bauds. and that Mr. J. P. Abbott becomes
Minuter of Mines.
that the English cricketers at Melbourne
packed themselves heavily at 100 to 5. and that they
liftvo taken £lO,OOO from the bookmakers.
At a snpper given to Laycock and Solomon, in
rinsbane, Elias said he had never seen a river so well
suited to boating as the Brisbane. He hoped to visit
fc hat city again, with Trickett.
Over ,£1,600 have been collected towards the
antended pecuniary testimonial to Sir Henry Parkes.
Since the Premier very properly refused to receive a
donation of money, it has boen suggested that it should
■be settled on La-ly Parkes.
.Oeorge Robinson, tramway guard, a marriedman
with several children, was, on Wednesday, while in
charge of a Crown-street tram, struck by a passing
Waverlay tram. He died five minutes after his ad-
mission to the Infirmary. On the same day a deaf lady,
Mrs. Leslie, was knocked down by a tram on ths
Waverley road, and sustained very severe injuries,
including a fracture of the thigh.
Wigzell is the author of the half-holiday for
ithe konsoriil artists of ths city. C. E. W., by the way.
as a bit of a humorist. When the English cricketers
dame here, he invited them t> a bath. It is rumoured
Ttnat two or three of the professionals, when they got
■the note about the bath, asked what it was—whether it
•was roast or boiled.
THE CZAR O VICH IS HE.
Within « palace gaunt and gray,
Silemt and comfortless he lay—
The Czar, who feared each stealthy treed,
And whispered as ho jumped from bed,
“ Owhatwasthatvichgaveakoil ?’*
"Ko echo bpoko the fearfnl gloom
'That guarded well that living tomb;
J fwas but a dream that woke the Czar,
And echo caught his words, “ By gar !
Owhatwastbatrlcbgavcakotl ?’*
11 What, ho, there, guard, do you not hear
A sound ?"—the monarch shook with fear,
" s * re « a^’H gates are barred.
The only living sound I heard
W asitthatga veakoff ovich


MOST PLEA
WANTED TO E
that the best cleans
TANT and Deodoriser fori
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS Dlf
can he found by ’
PANTEB AND PARRY'S 1
OF SOAP,
which not only contains tl
dients for the greatest clea
ever yet introduced to th
composed in its manufactui
best disinfectants.
(MADE PUR ELY FROM
v PLANTS)
known, and admitted in al
throughout the globe. Coml
it is free from all injurio
pleasing smell, ■will not inju
cate bauds, is the greates
labour, rendering any articl
with of the purest whiter
marvellous short space of tii
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot be surpassed
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crock
Paint, Floor
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which
EACH PACKET, which i
from all Grocers and Store
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGI
SYD N E
IN THE WO
. Dispense Prescriptions ohea
other House in Sydney. All
iledicincs at less than English pi
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spon
AIL KINDS OK DKUGGISTS’
i ‘•Send for a Price List. Countr;
ally attended to. Don’t forgel
1 You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New I
W. KER
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOG!
664 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals of every description, Mas
sentation Trowels designed i
Premises,
DIAMOND SET'
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, froi
118
'KING STREET S
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE IMPLEMENT &
Sole Agents for tlie W. A. WOODS’ STRING-DIN
W. A. WOODS’ 1881 STRING
THE WOODS
String-binder
is quite SELF-
ACTING. A boy
w work the
WOODS’ MA-
CHINE sue-
CE3SFULLY.
THE WOODS IS A PROVED SUCCESS, NOT
Farmers should write to us for oil the XM ELEMENTS, M A CHINE B
Goods, and the Largest Stock in the Colony.
MARTIN and FAIN, 389 GEORGE
n
FTIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REi
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy<
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TEY ONE.’
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
STA
And On
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEI
SYDNEY
PRIZE
awarded
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
foe
HERMITAGE.
VIN ORDINAIRE
8/6
PER GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- per d
SHIRAZ I Fruity ) u/
MADEIRA ) Wines ) ”
BURGUNDYI
RIESLING )
Wines }"
6. H. STEPHEN & CO
Wine Growers and Merchc
13 Bridge Street,
£IL IPPOED, LO V
TEA IMPOETE]
EASTEEN AND GOM]
MEECHANTS
Eeceive regular consignments
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualitie
Do. Indian Prize Meda
CHtJTNIES —Indian Priz
PEESEEVES—Indian Pri
COFFEE—Plantation No,
Do. „ Peal
Do. „ * Noa.
BICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pei
SAGO
PEPPEE—White and Bla
OFFICES 79 YOEK
AND AT
EDWAED STEEET, B;
JOHN D
IMPOETEE 01
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brassw
Gaafittings, Globes, Electrics '
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEET
B
B
A
T
£
D
H. L. SUIHKER
ECONOMY IN CLOI
-9-
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUE GOODS FEOI
DIEECT IMPOST
THE PEOPLE'S 1
PATTEENS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEA
sent to any part of the
tar The particular attention c
dents is requested to th
Any style of Garment made 1
SUMMEKFIELI
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAS
