

THE BULLETIN
Vol. B.—No. 94.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1881.
Fi’ice—3d.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1881.
Milburn Creek.
Mb Salomons, Q.C., has deserved well of his
country. It has been his fortune to have devolved
upon him a responsibility more onerous than pro-
bably any which ever previously had to be sus-
tained in Australia by a single individual. It has
been a task which might well have caused a weak
man to quail. The character which representa-
tive institutions in this colony should take for
years to come depended largely upon the fashion
in which Mr. Salomons should acquit himself of
his weighty and delicate task. Had he been con-
tent merely to hear such evidence as parties in-
volved in the subject of his investigations might
choose to disclose, and to base upon these an
equivocal and indeterminate report, the encourage-
ment which would have been given to persons dis-
posed to pervert Parliamentary government to
corrupt purposes would have been infinitely mis-
chievous. Had Mr. Salomons been content to
limit himself to procedures narrowly formal, the
result would have been the same. Happily, the
Commissioner has conceived his functions in a
bolder and broader spirit; and has pursued his
investigations with a common-sense recognition
of the fact that ho would best discharge the trust
reposed in him by proceeding on the simple
hypothesis that it was his business to find out all
he could by the most searching and effectual
methods. He can now felicitate himself in the
knowledge that he has the public entirely with
him, and that the conclusions which ho has, with
unflinching logic, deduced from the evidence he
elicited, are fully endorsed by every disinterested
and straightforward man in the community.
# * *
The parties directly charged with corruption
and embezzlement appear to misconceive their
position. They turn upon their judge, as though
ha were their accuser. The rovilings of Mr.
Waddell, as convoyed in his passionate letters to
the daily press are singularly mal Apropos, as are
also the complaints of Messrs. Gabkett and
Bakkb in the Assembly. These persons have the
folly to arraign the Commissioner, and to charge
him with partiality and animus. Mr. Gabbstt
lloundoringly makes an ad mieericordiam appeal
for sympathy, on the grounds that ho is confronted
\rth charges, while uninformed whore to look for
his accuser. Each of these remonstrants seems
to imagine, or to wish the public to believe, that
the Commissioner is that accuser. This is a mis-
conception, or an audacity, easily confuted. It is
not the Commissioner, but the evidence —their
own evidence, mainly —which is their accuser.
The Commissioner has done no more than follow
up the clues placed in his hands, and draw, from
them the inferences which they inevitably sug-
gested If the complainants have cause to rail,
it is at circumstances, not at the Commissioner
who laid bare those circumstances, that they
should inveigh.
* • •
The nearest parallel to the attitude of a Royal
Commissioner who, summing up the evidence
given before him, indicates certain individuals
as involved by such evidence, would be that of a
coroner sitting without a jury on a corpus delicti
or the smoking shell of a burnt house. He would
commence with an effect, and trace back to a
cause. Beginning dispassionately with a dead
body or a ruin before him, he would elicit facts,
and report candidly upon these facts without
respect of persons. This is what Mr. Salamons
has done; and the parties indicated by him as
probable participants in the evil done, stand pre-
cisely in the position of persons against whom a
verdict has been brought in, on an inquest. A
prinid facie case has been made out against them.
That they should revile the officer of the law who
Presided over the investigation, is simply iude-
cent, and an assumption scarcely tolerable under
the circumstances.
« « *
The Legislative Assembly need have had no
delicacy, and little difficulty, in deciding in what
manner to deal with its accused members, pending
their final trial. It is certainly not a thing con-
templated by any Constitutional ideal that men,
practically committed for trial, should be com-
petent to continue in discharge of the functions
of Parliamentary representatives. The position
is certainly and happily unusual, and is surrounded
by certain difficulties. But the common-sense
mode of dealing with it would certainly have been
to suspend the suspected members from their
representative functions. If the constituencies
for which they sat regarded it as a grievance that
they should bo temporarily unrepresented, nothing
would have been easier for them than to petition
the Assembly to give them an opportunity of pro-
ceeding at once to a fresh election, whereupon the
seats of the members in question might have been
peremptorily declared vacant. The difficulty
would thus have been solved by referring it to the
people themselves. If they desired to bo repre-
sented by men with a cloud of heavy suspicion
resting upon thorn, the position might bo endured
until guilt or innocence were placed beyond ques-
tion, and either absolute expulsion or suitable
reparation were allotted to the members in
question. * # •
Regarding the accused as so circumstanced, we
do not care further to enlarge upon their case at
the present epoch. The Assembly has more than
a right, it has a duty, to purge itself, even of
“ suspects.” In that flock there should be no
“ tainted wethers.” The evidence elicited by the
Commissioner, however, is fraught with lessons
which may be improved on without prejudice to
the parties specifically implicated. The air has,
for years, been thick with odours and rumours of
corruption proceeding from tho Legislature. The
public has, at least, learnt how such corruption
might possibly be managed. A special promin-
ence has been given to the question how impe-
cunious adventurers manage to exist, and even to
thrive, when once they manage to gain acceptance
as members of the Assembly. There are men in
that House who have never boon known to do a
day’s honest labour. Mon who belong to no pro-
fession, who follow no trade. Sturdy fellows, in
fact, who have no ostensible moans of support,
and who, nevertheless, are known to bo growing
well-to-do. It should now bo a matter of public
interest to inquire how it happens that shifty
and plausible fellows, who, whoa they had all
their time at their command for industry or
business, were eternally out-at-elbows, have been
enabled, since almost the whole of their time has
boon occupied by their unpaid Parliamentary
duties, to prosper, and grow sleek, and well-to-do.
• * •
It cannot be overlooked that tho members of
the Government owe an explanation to the coun-
try almost as ranch as do Messrs. Baker and
Garrett. It ia incumbent upon Sir Henry
Paekes to explain how it happened that the
supporters of the Ministry wore put under an
obligation to vote moneys for a compensation so
surrounded with evil associations. It is for the
Premier to explain why it was made a test of party
allegiance that every faithful supporter of the
Administration should vote moneys of which Mr.
Baker, a then member of the Government,
intended to appropriate, rightly or wrongly, a
very largo proportion.
Mr. Alderman John Meeks.
We give the portrait to-day of Mr. Alderman
John Meeks, a gentleman who has for some tirao
past devoted himself with marked success to the
cause of Municipal reform in this city. Mr. Meeks
is a successful man of business, and about two
years ago, having the time at his disposal, turned
his attention to municipal affairs. His election
was bitterly opposed, owing to the radical charac-
ter of his programme, but ho was returned by a
good majority; and his work in the Council has
proved the sincerity of his promises, and justified
the expectations of those who knew him in busi-
ness. Mr. Meek* committed himself to honest
tendering in respect of the city contracts, and
searching inquiries as to the business of the
Sydney gas supply. It is satisfactory to find that
in these matters alone Mr. Meeks’s election to
the Council has resulted in a saving to the city of
over .£3OOO a year. Mr. Meeks is recognized as
an uncompromising enemy to the jobbery that has
long prevailed at the Town Hall, and it may bo
expected that if, at the coming elections, fresh as.
instance in the shape of new aldermen is given him
and throe or four other reformers in the Council,
the days of municipal cliquism and corruption at
the Town Hall are numbered. Mr. Meeks brings
to the Council an uprightness of aim, a largo
business experience, and a general capability that
must render him a valuable and useful public
representative- Our engraving is from an excel-
lent photo, by Boyd.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“The Last Rites.”
It is a matter for real regret that the regulations of the
Funeral Eeform Association, about which so much was
made a few years since, did not receive bettor or more
general support. The absurd waste of money upon
senseless and unmeaning show which custom has
sanctioned, in connection with tho burial of tho dead, i i
perhaps one of tho vainest and hollowest usages which
society still clings to. No matter in what light the
departed was regarded whilst living, pomp and pageantry
attend him to the grave, and tho trappings of woe (in
strict accord with tho latest fashion) are asssutned,
whilst very often tho hearts of tho mourners a-o
rendered considerably easier by tbo visitation. Bi t
(hero is even a worse custom than this prevalent in
some of the country districts—that of keeping the do: d
an inordinate period awaiting burial. Some friend at a
distance of two or three days' journey would like to
bo present at tho funeral, and so tho. poor doo'yin?
piece of mortality ie detained from its final homo—;ao> t
probably in an unclosed coffin —uhtil tho friend’s
arrival; or the corpse is kept for several days that tho
nows of death may bo well disseminated, and a good
attendance at tho funeral secured. Thoro should bo no
difference of oi iniouupon so shocking a thing as this.
So disgusting a usage—capable of no good to the dead,
and of infinite harm to tfce i yin g—cannot bo too
strongly and severely reprobated.
Hush Money.
Week an employer, being robbed by his servants, first
to invoke the aid of the police, and then to accept
moneys in reparation of his loss, the law would term
his action by a very ugly name. But were he merely to
institute civil proceedings to recover damages from an
unjust steward, he would bo at liberty to accept such
a portion of compensation as ho thought fit. Ho would,
however, bo a strangely unworldly employer who,
having extensive business and many servants, preferred
recouping Lis pocket to a trilling extent rather than
making once for all a stiiking example, which would
intimidate any in his employment who might later bo
tempted to contemplate imposing upon him; and ho
would bo a very strange man who, having suifered
losses by tens of thousands, accepted units of thousands
as settlement of all claims. If a wretched rogue filch
an apple from a stall, he goes to gaol as surely as tho
sta 1 1-keeper cri?s “Police!” There is no chance that
tho wronged proprietor will serenely institute civil
proceeding >, and in tho fee of blinking imagse of
MR. ALDERMAN JOHN MEEKS.


HOP BITTERS I
arb
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVES, MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Sticlin, Mandrake and Dandelion,.
The Oldest, Beit, most Renowned, ancU
Valnable Medicines in the World, amp
in addition, contain all the best am® 1 ,
most effective curative properties of alt-
other Bitters, being the greatest Liver
Regulator, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Drug-gist or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suffer, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should he with-
out it.
V ALU A ELS TEUIHS.
If yon are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on a bed of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Sitters Will Cure You.
If you arc simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
If yon are a Minister, and havo over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work,
Hop Bitters Will Restore Yen.
If yon are a man of business, cr
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen Yoxx,
If you are suffering from over eating;
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast-
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If you aro in the workshop, on the
farm, at tho desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system need* Cleansing, Ton-
ing, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting,
Hop Bittera id What You Neel.
If you are old, and yonc blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., tendering
them harmless, and sweetening tho
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yox will have no sickness or Buffering,
KGNTEPIORB, STUART, & CO.,
((465 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
VAN HA ADEN’S TOILET SOAPS.
manufactured by
BENJAMIN BROOKE & CO., PHILADELPHIA,
U.S.A.
BEST, FINEST, AND CHEAPEST
FRENCH MILLED TOILET SOAPS.
These soaps are made of the purest and best material
and are mirivailed for
DELICACY OF PERFUME,
AND SUPERIOR LASTING QUALITIES.
Fine Rose
White Pond Lily
Prairie Bouquet
Oat Meal
Palma Ro c a
Honeysuckle
Fine Honey
Turkish B ith
American Toilet
X J ure Palm
Laurel Bouquet
Lilac Bosquet.
Naples Bouquet, etc. etc. etc.,
FOR TOILET, BATH, and NURSERY USES,
FOR SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—•
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.
JJENJAMIN BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for genera! scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house*
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Stool, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
iron?, ard all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No x>ossiblo injury can result from the uso of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and It is cheap, effective, and a great of tu»9
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of tho Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,;
OP. GREGORY & CO. ’S
• SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOBACCOS,
bearinv our Brands,
»« ORIENT ” and “ SOUTHERN CROSS.”
aro unequalled by any Tobaccos ever imported into
these Co'onies.
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Justice, accept ns full acquittance tho Valance of the
bitten fruit—with a piece out. Tho Corporation
have, however, in effect kindly preferred civil
proceedings to the rude extremity of criminal
ones. And their complaisance has been such,
that even when the faithless ones threw up their
hands, and showed themselves hopeless of escaping the
claims urged against them, they compromised matters,
and consented in effect lo bo satisfied with the restora-
tion of a part of the lost money. If this bo a regular
course with tho Municipal Council of Sydney, few of
its servants aro likely to resist the invitation thus
thrown out to pillage the Corporation, with the assur.
ance of being permitted, ultimately, at the cost merely
of a little anxiety and contempt, to retain a handsome
percentage of the amounts thus acquired.
Those Meters Again.
A case was tried at tho Parramatta Police Court, on
Monday last, which throws some additional light upon
the very Interesting subject cf gas-meters. It will be
remembered by our readers that, in dealing with the
evidence collected by a Parliamentary Committee rela-
tive to the Sydney Gas Company, we noticed that even
should a consumer insist upon having his meter tested,
it would bo ganged by tho tester of the Gas Company.
Tho standard tester of tho Sydney Gas Company is,
wo remarked, itself an nnstampod affair, the accuracy
of which was and is a matter of assumption. In the
case tried at Parramatta, the local Gas Company sued
Mr. Toohey, a consumer, for an amount alleged to bo
due on gas used. The defendant's plea was that he had
not consumed tho gas indicated by his meter. In 11
days that peculiar instrument had registered against
him 4500, while a now meter which replaced it registered
in 80 days only 0400. Experts admitted that in 11 days
it was impossible that so much could have hscu con-
sumed. Now, those facta were remarkable enough in
all conscience. Tho Gas Company appears to have
removed the old erroneous meter, yet to have insisted
upon being paid according to its preposterous measure-
ment. This, no doubt, is quite tho regular course with
gas companies. But tho significant circumstance, for
Sydney people at any rate, is that Mr. Toohey's old
meter, which registered 4500 feet in 11 days, had been
certified as being correct by tho tester of tho Sydney
Gas Company, as well as by tho tester of tho Parramatta
Company, who certify that if tho meter were wrong it
was half per cent, in favour of tho consumer I Ho
examined it soon after tho 11th Jnly, when it had been
removed. His testimony was corroborated by tho
tester for the Parramatta Gas Co. And, by tho way,
this company was without any tester at all for eighteen
mouths previous to their employing tho present one,
whoso services commenced about the time that old
meter was sent to Sydney to be examined.
Genteel Loafers.
0»b of the homo papers ia carefully pointing out to its
readers, Just now, the prevalence of a typo of social
development, which. It asserts, is getting more common
than sensible people care to see. Lefrot, the alleged
Brighton murderer, i» instanced as an example of this
kind of thing. ‘‘The prisoner’s personality,” the
paper referred to goes on to say, “as exposed in his
letters, and in the dreary sordid biographical details,
stamps him as one of tho ill-weeds our civilization is
brooding.” There is much in the strictures which
follow applicable to a similar class among ourselves—a
class composed of half-educated and half-trained indi-
vldnale, familiar enough in the larger cities of the Aus-
tralian colonics ; individuals, it is true, who are not, as
a rale, actuated by any masterful desire to crack gentle-
men’s skulls to come at their cash, but who, in their
main characteristics, are not at all unlike tho person
charged with having taken Mr. Gold’s life. Our local
representatives of this shady side of human nature are
scarcely individualised sufficiently by their noticeably
mean characteristics—which belong rather to the nega-
tive than to the positive order-to be found ever asserting
themselves by such violent exertion, mental or physical,
as murder, under certain circumstances, may imply.
Their chief object in life seems rather the avoidance of
any exertion at all. Thoy toil not, neither do they
spin. Their better days are passed in wistfully
looking for genteel employment, for which, even if
found, thoy possess no other qualification than a dis-
taste for tho necessary effort to discharge its duties
faithfully. ‘‘Beyond writing a fair hand, and pos-
sessing a notable power of consuming victuals, they
have no qualification for any useful employment what-
ever,” Half-educated, in that meagre, scanty way,
that just goes far enough to beget self-complacency
without disclosing its insufficiency—half-trained, un-
formed by any cf those disciplinary influences of
regular life aud judicious restraint and rule, which pro-
perly-framed social institutions—the family-circle, the
sohool, and conventional society itself—provide, this
type springs up on tho outskirts of the ordinary out-
growth of civilization like some noisome, useless weed
—a sort of human fungus. There is no known blank in
our social system which the distinguishing features
of a member of this class mark him out as being
fitted to fill ; and consequently he floats aim-
lessly about on the surface of society, one of its
irresponsible waifs and strays, grasping at eviry
straw to keep himself afloat, despising no shady trick
aud disdaining no petty—(if safe)—criminality—
now a decoy for others and then a sharper him-
self, until at last ho sinks out of sight altogether—dives
beneath tho surface and disappears finally liko Lefkot,
or else emerges again, panoplied anew in all the glory
of the white collars and false cuffs that ho loves, and
in all tho croditablo lustre of an influentially-patronised
Civil Servant.
Usurers.
There is in this city, as in most others, an unscru-
pulous class which flourishes upon tho proceeds of a
nefarious trade base! on the necessities of tho poor.
The class is numerous, and singularly shameless, aud
oven obtrusive in the publicity which it does not
scruple to give its unhallowed operations. Tho coun-
ters of the money-lender are familiar in every thorough-
fare, whether they be placed in the shop of the
pawnbroker or in the offices of what are more
oupkonistical'y termed Loan and Discount Banks,
•* Shixty per shout” —or its multiple—is tho shibboleth
of the fraternity; and .woo to tho unhappy wretch who
borrows, and presently is unable to repay. Liko vuk
turei, the usurers swoop down upon their victim, with
their liens and retainers and mortgages in so many
diverse shapes and forms; and soon the hones are met a-
phorica’ly picked as bare as over ware ifcoao of helpless
carrion by the veritable vultures of tho air. A dis-
tressing instance of tho working of tho system is given
in an appeal to the charitably disposed which appeared
in a contemporary recently. The case is a representa-
tive one. A lady—a widow, with four children —
furnished a house for the reception of boarders. To
do this she had recourse to a money-lender in Sydney,
who lent her £4O, on condition that she repaid him £63
by weekly instalments. After paying £l4, however, sho
fell behind. The result was as usual. The whole
of tho furniture, worth at least £lOO, was seized and
sold by her creditor, and tho widow and her children
left destitute. This is only one instance of many. Of
course, tho ostensible defence for tho system ia that
lenders must he protected, and that borrowers accept
the terms as to interest and otherwise at their own dis-
cretion and risk. No force is used, say the usurers,
but it must be remembered that the very need to bor-
row is about tho most active force that could bo availed
of, and that the rate of interest is not so much con-
demned as the attendant circumstances. It is no-
toriously a fact that lenders of the class here referred
to depend, not on tho interest, heavy and exorbitant as
it invariably is, for a profit on their outlay—their object
is to obtain possession of the security, to gala which
the unfortunate borrower is harassed and persecuted by
every one of those inconceivably ingenious methods in
which usurers revel, and at which their victims shudder
—by which the latter are at length inextricably em-
barassed, and the fox-feiture of tho coveted security
ensured. A clear transaction, in which the interest and
principal are repaid, and the security redeemed, is a
disappointment to the lender. It is from this class that
the poor, driven to desperate expedients by their neces-
si tics, are to be protected. Their poverty too often st elters
the evil door. And were it not that tho operations of tho
patter, as has bean already said, were so shamelessly
obtrusive and blatant, his nefarious trade might
continue to flourish unchecked and unnoticed as
hitherto.
Milburn Creek Mine Disclosures.
There was an unusually largo attendance of members
at tho Bitting of tho Legislative Assembly on Tuesday,
the Bth, tho business being the consideration of the
report of the Commissioner appointed to inquire into
and report upon tho distribution of the Milburn Crook
Mine vote. The galleries of tho House ware crowded
by tho public, and there was an unusually large gather-
ing of people about the precincts cf the chamber. Im-
mediately upon the Speaker taking tho chair. Sir
Henry Porkcs moved that the House proceed to
consider tho report of tho Commissioner. Tho report
was read, and Mr. Baker was hoard in explanation.
His speech lasted over an hour, and at it* conclusion
ho withdrew from tho chamber. Thereupon Sir Henry
Parkes moved a resolution that Mr. Baker’s conduct
was unworthy a member of that House, aud it was car-
ried without division. Sir Henry Parkes then sub-
mitted a resolution for tbo expulsion of Mr. Baker, aud
the motion, without discussion, was put to the House
and carried without dissent. Tho case of Mr. Garrett
is to be considered at today (Thursday's) sitting.
Public Apology.
ear No paper is more prompt than The Bulletin in
acknowledging and correcting an error. And it is not
surprising that in the multitude of items with which
we have to deal a mistake should occasionally creep
in. We regret to Isay thatjin our last issue a serious
and painful error occurred. We stated that tho Hon.
John Richardson, M.L.C., was once Mayor of Sydney.
This announcement has inflicted considerable pain on
that hon. gentleman, and has been the cause of much
annoyance to his numerous friends. We are credibly
informed that there is not tho slightest foundation for
tho statement. Mr. Richardson, wo trust, will believe
that the mistake was entirely unintentional on onr
part, and we hope this amende honorable will be deemed
adequate in the way of reparation. While, however,
making this apology, wo distinctly decline to retract
the statement that Mr, Richardson has been, and still
Is, a member of the legislature of this colony.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed ]
"Yvo Yiotis” : You may smile ‘’999'’:
Welcome. Wo’ll try and procure for you the song
“ Mabel” (Woollahra): Just what wolike. Please write
again “ W.8.E.” : When you think yon have a good
line always send it right here “T.L.": Thanks; but
write with a pen next time, old fellow, and spell with a
dictionary “W.H.W.": Send along ‘‘W.D.Jfr:
Glad to hear from you “ Numora” :It is quite inter-
esting to learn that you were bom on the 22nd day of
the 11th month of the year ’it. Send us something
that people will laugh at—say, your photo “ Ada” :
You’re a spiteful little vixen, like others of your sex;
but send along, darling girl, all the news you bear
“Quid Nunc” (W. M.) : Letter received, but no
enclosure “Z. Y. X.” ; Will try and use
“Public School Teacher”: Not up to much.
We wonder to see a school teacher write so much like a
night school scholar. But persevere. A back-board
aud a fire-stick is good practice “A Beginner”:
Your poem commencing, “ Prismatic dyes upon the ;
wall,” won’t quite suit. You must divest yourself,
dear boy, of the notion that you are always mixed up .
with a paint-pot anda ladder “ Boss,” Uralla: Your :
puzzle i? hardly in our line. Wo try, as much as we I
can, to kcop puzzles out, not put them in Z.Y.X,” : 1
Not good enough. It scans badly, and “laughing”
does not rhyme with “cofiln." You could do bettor if
you tried “ T. J.” : Acceptable facts “P.T.”:
Right “ Orion” : Fire away “ J.G.8." : Good
“Thickhead": Send along again “T.LL.”: Absurd
nonsense; send to the D;T “BT.”: Ticklish sub-
ject. If the gentlemen has sold 23 tickets and paid 22
guineas since for a silk dross for a barmaid, you should
drum him out. You might then remain master of the
field “P.P.8.”: Straight from the shoulder
“MayT.” (Marrickville) and “AdaN." (Glob-); It is
singular that you both write the same hand, with
identical ink, on one stylo of paper, and give the same
class of information. We take leave to doubt your
bona fides, and decliuo, therefore, to give currency to
the items. If you arc twins, and use twin pens, twin
inkboltles, and twin sheets of paper, you ought to live
closer, aud have only one surname “Alpha": Played
out. Send us anew idea “Woollahra": Trynnother
subject. What sort of stuff do you consider this is;—
“ How cruel those judges were
Who terrify by use (f Law (?)
To scarify poor preachers ho: o.
Or run them in by (f)law.”
Now, how long, dear hoy, do you think we should keep
out of a gory grave if we printed this sort of thing F
Reflect now—wouldn’t you, yourself, go for your little
hatchet if you saw it in The Bulletin, and knew some-
one else wrote it? Of course you would! “8.L.”:
No use “E.F.”: Good taste; please write again
“J.N.M.”: Can’t see the way; will await another
opportunity “A.C.”: Thanks. Send along at any
time “V. 0.8.” Amusing "J.S.": All thero
“Qalandaz”: Will look into the matter “S.P."
Attend to it next week “ IJ.P.": Too warm for a
cold country. Try again “ Georgia”: Not qnlta
point enough “Broughton’s Creek”: Grand; just
what we loro. Keep it up “ G.C.S.” or “ Junius” :
Next week “A.A.”: Much obliged. The thing is
two palpable to necessitate our printing your version,
which was, with the exception of an acute and a circum.
flex accent, entirely correct.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Graham Berry still clings with hopo to tho
Liberal party in Victoria.
Tho “no confidence’ -- motion in the Victorian
Assembly, re the Education question, was negatived—sl
to 31.
A country paper says Sir Henry Parlccs is about
settling some old scores with Messn. Baker and
Garrett over the Miiburn Creek affair.
Tho S.A. Government have intimated that they
do not intend to memorialise the Crown to pro our a tho
passing by the Imperial Parliament ot an Australasian
Court of Appeal Bill.
Mr. David Buchanan states ia a letter to the
press that his last Mndgee election cost him nothing,
save £2—conch fare to and from Sydney, Now, did
any election ever cost David, anything ?
Mr. J. Coles stated in the Adelaide Assembly,
recently, that a bribe, in tho shape of a promoter’s
share, bad been offered him for his support to the pro-
posal of a harbour outside Port Adelaide.
Mr. Bent is desirous of speedily completing an
arrangement with regard to tho connexion between the
Victorian an! New South Wales lines of railway, aud
with this object ho has invited tho Government of this
colony to authorise tho Commissioner of Rail-
ways or tho Engineer-in-ohiaf to confer with him at
Wcdoaga, on Saturday, tho 12th instant, in order that
a crossing place may be decided upon, and other neces-
sary conditions agreed to.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Over 1000 people at the Museum last Sunday
afternoon.... Edwards, railway guard, courageously saved
a boy from drowning at Bullock Island, Newcastle
Senior Sergeant Luther, of Taiaworth, “whilst in
a paroxysm of pain from jagging an abscess on his hand
with a pair of scissors, jerked them out of his
hand, and their points penetrating his poor child’s
breast, caused instant death.” Mr. A. Cameron, cf
Cameron and Lazarus, cordial manufacturers, Tomotn,
committed suicide, on the 3rd, while deranged in mind;
he took 2oz. hydrocianic acid The Ercildoune sheep
sale realized £9300 Every sheep shorn in this colony
last year yielded on the average more than twice as
much wool as in tho shearing of 13 2 The Orange
Slaughtering Company is briskly preparing a cargo of
meat for the Cuzco, which sails for London in Decem-
ber An important load of gold was struck by Com-
gnn and party in a locality situated between tho work-
ings known as Happy Valley and tho Red White and
Blue, Gulgong; sinking 145 feet partly through basalt;
bottomed on three feet of wash which prospects 2 grains
to the dish, Sfhvts to the load A. splendid gold-bear-
ing reef has just been found at Nuggety Qnlly on Now-
ondoo Goldfields, Manning district, by the Frenchman
party. About five feet in width, showing gold freely
throughout the stone Action, Lyons v. Hardy, ver.
diet for £lBl7 New Zealand native difficulty disap-
pearing Small-pox epidemic in Sydney declining;
two slight eases only occurred during tho week
Action, Archer (Mayor of Burwood) v. Stuart, satis-
factorily settled in Court; defendant paying £l3O, to
cover all costs Rich discoveries of antimony at
Central Kempsey Chinaman killed at Queanbeyan,
through skylarking; two boys arrested Howell’s
store aud Gentle’s Hotel, Toowoomba, destroyed by
fire; heavy loss; insurance about £3OOO Plummer,
teacher, committed for trial at Wagg», for a capital
assault on a pupil; evidence disclosed an incredibly
barbarous case Rich gold discovery at Tuena
Mitchell’s Creek mine and property, Wellington,
N.S.W., sold in London for £40,000 11. C. Went,
sentenced, to death at Maitland, for shooting with
intent to murder, gets ten ve.-r ? New rush at Native
Dog Creek, Grenfell, turning oat well; results, 2to 27
grains to the dish Rich tin lodes at tho Mole Table-
iand. Now England Rowland, a second Rarey, is
taming all the buck jumpers at Rockhampton in a mar-
vellously speedy and easy manner.
# * *
After tho wet review at Edinburgh, the Perth-
shire Volunteers, homeward bound, wired to Perth
station for 250 tumblers of hot toddy to he ready on
their arrival, and tho Inverness Artillery men put
themselves outside twelve pints of whisky at the same
station in 15 minutes The now French Mail Service,
to connect Franco and New Caledonia, via Reunion,
Mauritius, Adelaide, Melbourne, aud Sydney, is to
commence early in 1832, In Franco' and Germany
anyone is allowed to sell iho wines of tho country with-
out a license-fee. Let N.S.W. imitate sober Franco
and Germany One passenger in every four millions
is killed on tho English railways Ninety thou-
sand thieves, burglars, murderers, and drunkards,
>n New York. This is not inclusive of politicians
"The two really great things your army has done in
this century,” remarked a distinguished German officer,
recently, “ aro tho win at Waterloo and tho march to
Oandahar." Commissioners of Inland Revenue,
England, seized grout quantities of temperance ddaks
recently; they contained 6 per cent, of alcohol.
“OUR COMMISSIONER.”
TERRIBLE TALE OF TEMORA
The lights within the theatre shone.
And music sounded gaily ;
When in tho stalls Webr stumbled on
Tho little form of Bailey.
(We may remark that Mr. Wehr,
The sight of Bailey bated;
And Bailey also, it is clear,
Tho othob execrated).
Cried Webr, “ At last. I’ve found you out,
And now I’ll make you grovel.
How dared yon,” ho did loudly shout,
“ Say that I’d filed my shovel ?”
“Avaunt! hold!” Bailey cried, when, 10,
More quick than can bo stated,
Ilis form was ’mongst tho chairs laid low,
Wehr had expiectorated.
2
November 12, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


OREA
CENTPA'i
HOOTCH
RES
SI
1 N
ALU
CP^
UR
M PO"
PU
Sflt
6>l JWwSCin;
Vt«\
L toiL.7T\v: wm-t;
££2s v*v^vvv
m
u
IV
ft
ALARMING SALE OE BOOTS AND SHOES
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEOKGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
In the Assigned Estate of G-. A. Smith.
JEWELLERY TO THE AMOUNT OF £2OOO.
‘N order to dispose of the above Stock, we have made up the undermentioned parcels, which will be
found very cheap, and consist of the following, viz.:—
[registered.]
Gent’s Parcel of Jewillert
For £5.
£ s. d.
1 Silver Waltham Watch,
guaranteed for 5 years... 2 15 0
1 Silver Chain, massive,
weighing over loz 0 12 6
1 Full Suite Gold, consist-
ing of solitaires, 3 studs,
and collar stud 0 12 6
1 Silver Locket 0 5 0
1 Good; Gold Stone Signet
Bing 0 15 0
£5 0 0
Ladies’ Parcel of Jewellery
For £5.
£ s. d.
1 Gold Watch, Hall marked 2 0 0
1 Gold Albert 1 10 0
1 Colonial Gold Set Brooch
and Earrings.. 15 0
1 Fancy Gold Bing,../... 0 5 0
£5 0 0
Youth’s Parcel of Jewellery
For £2 10s.
£ s. d.
1 Silver Geneva Watch,
stamped 15 0
1 Silver Albert, heavy, with
key and seal 010 0
1 Silver Full Set Studs,
Collar, &c 0 8 0
1 Silver Scarf Pin 0 2 0
1 Silver Locket 0 5 0
£2 10 0
In the event of these goods not giving satisfaction, they can be exchanged or the money returned within a month.
EVAN JONES, 9 & 11 HUNTER-ST.,
Having purchased the above Estate, all Letters should bo addressed, and Post Office Orders made
payable to him. Sent post free to all parts of the colony. 88 RING STREET.
m
HnHj
On
% %
MHH
A
VV
FORWAO
Ni
mm
%
i 0.CLQ.6...Q
-LAO OOP
OOOo'Q o n fro
00
r
r
©
r
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building use CALLENDER and SONS’ Pure Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSLY
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If you have DAMP WALLS In your house, use CALLENDER and SONS* SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can be applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Pitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
w.
HOWARD SMITH and SONS’
LINE OF STEAMERS,
Leave STEUTH’S WHARF, foot of King-street,
For MELBOURNE,
Every TUESDAY and FRIDAY.
For BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and ROCKHAMPTON,
On TUESDAY and SATURDAY.
FARES and FREIGHTS at Greatly REDUCED
RATES.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
7 Spring-street.
STEAM TO LONDON—ORIENT LINE.
1881.
The following Royal Mail Steamships, belonging to
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC STEAM NAVIGA-
TION COMPANY, will leave SYDNEY on the under-
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, Adelaide, and LON-
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calling at NAPLES
And the service will he maintained by succeeding
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards may break the journey
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, going on by succeeding
steamer within a mouth; but failing room, then by first
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to Loudon, 15 to 70 guineas. Suez Canal dues
8s in addition.
Passages from London can he granted in Sydney,
For plans and full particulars, apply to F. GREEN
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANDERSON, and CO.,
Joint Managers of the line; or to the
General Manager in Australia,
G. S. YUILL,
267 George-street.
o EIENT LINE OF STEAMERS.
PARCEL EXPRESa
Special Arrangements have been made for the Con-
veyance of Parcels and small packages by Orient Line of
Steamers to London at reduced rates, viz :
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a foot measurement,
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a pound.
Packages will be received at this office, and receipts
issued, up to Noon of the day prior to advertised date of
sailing. All freights payable in Sydney. For further
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
„ Manager of Orient Line in Australia.
267 George-street, Sydney.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER!
LATIN, FRENCH, AND WRITING
taught,
THROUGH CORRESPONDENCE,
by
DR. RODWAY, M.A., F.R.S.L.,
PRINCIPAL OF UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
TERMS, STRICTLY IN ADVANCE,
TWO ( 2) GUINEAS PER QUARTER
FOR EACH SUBJECT.
T) : RODWAY also guarantees to prepare per
moil, and pass, every country candidate ho sends up for
his Matriculation, Law, and Civil Service Examina-
tions.
Fees for either Matric., Law, or Civil Service, THREE
GUINEAS per Quarter, payable strictly
IN ADVANCE.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor
awarded at the conclnsion of
each Term.
N.8.-—DR. ROD WAY’S system is easy and efficient,
and he guarantees proficiency and success to every
student he excepts.
ALL LESSONS CONDUCTED THROUGH
THE POST.
ADDRESS
OR. RODWAY, M.A., F.R.S.L.,
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET,
_ SYDNEY.
U D u C I O N A L.
French junior examination.
The undersigned will translate La Fontaine’s Fables,
Books IX., X., and apswer all questions referring to
them, on SATURDAY, sth November, at 10 o’clock.
Intending candidates are requested to send in their
names before 3 o’clock on FRIDAY. Fee, ss.
Rene armand martin,
Sydney Grammar School.
An interesting statistic.
The quantity of Foreign Tobacco Leaf paid duty
f or the Half Year ending 30 feept. was
Of this quantity DIXSON & SONS
paid on 180,3001 b, £9015.
All the remaining manufacturers,
cigar makers, and others 212,1271 b, £10.600 7s
DIXSON & SONS’ BRANDS:
** Yankee Doodle,” “Conqueror," “ Sir Roger.”
T
XT A. ABBOT
BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER,
106 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
(five noons from pitt street).
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices.
WA TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
JgYDNEY LIVE STOCK MARKET.
Having secured the services of Mr. JEFF. BUCK.
LAND, well-known in Victoria and Riverina as a Live
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to assure my friends and
all interested in the SALE of FAT or STORE STOCK,
and STATION PROPERTIES, that every attention
shall be directed to this branch of the business; and
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite sure that the prac-
tical knowledge, attention, and straightforwardness
which have made my Wool and Produce Business such
a success, will entitle me to the confidence of all who
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and in the City twice
a week ; allowances made on all Stock or Stations in.
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales handed over twice
a week, or when required on days of sale.
Further information if applied for.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
iestawar^^^
J. T, GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
ANY WATCH PART]
jo ■ i J.;
pi/viN sjoci\, (Jew/ DEpiciJs.!
WALTHAM ENGLISH, ANDJGENEVA'WATCHES,
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
G.
i
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-CLASS INSTfiU.
MENTS, by
ERAED (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLARD and COLLARD
SOUFLETO,
BERDEN and
TROST
AUCHER,
PALING and C<3.,
And other First-class 'Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO„
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PERE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPO TE WYNYARD STREE
SYDNEY,
3
THE BULLETIN.
November 12. 1881.


Public Compax
T
[HE AUSTRALIAN JOINI
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with pc
£J,000,000. Reserve Fum
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; J(
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walb
General Managi
Vincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: GEOPGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Willi:
BRANCHES IN NEW SOB
Albury, Annidale, Ballina, Bi
Bonrkc, Bundnrra, Cassilii, Cone
brau, Coouamblc, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Inuos, Goulbi
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macloay,
Morpeth, Mudgeo, Narandan, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rxskle
ton, South Grafton, Ttmora, To
Tirana, Wagga Wagga. Wailsend.
Mnitlaiid, Wiloounia, Woodborn, i
BRANCHES IN QUEEI
Brisbane, A Horn, Bowen. Charberi
Gladstone, Gympio, Ipswioh, Mocl
Kavenswood, Rockhampton, Stent
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agcntfi fn all the Australian OalOti
the World general
The mercantile rani
ESTABLISHED H
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...
DIRECTORS i
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. CaircL Esq.
Hon. Wm, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidlev King, M.L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggio, Eeq.
IL. E. Cohen,
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilaoi
SECRETARYi
Hector Alien.
BRANCHES:
587 Qeorge-street Brickfield HI
LONDON BANIE;
The National Provincial Bank
Loudon Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapr
Agent—Q. H. Alexand:
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances nnu
other nrodnee shipped to England fi
s
COTTISH
IMPERIAI
COMPANY,
CAPITAL ... ,n
FIRE RISKS AT LOWES
NIXON & CO
Chief Agents for N.S
7 BRIDGE STREET GH
Snb-Agents wanted in Town
CORNWALL FIRE AND N
ANCE COMP AN
' CAPITAL, £loo|o
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marino Risks accepted by
JF yon are asked to buy a MA
by “ The Singer C 0.," but recc
being on the “ linger System ” or
take Punch's advice to those about
SINGER’S SEWING I
ARE MADE ONLY
The Sirger KTanufp.ctnri
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Euri
39 FOSTER LANE, ]
Depot for New South
No 1 DARLING STORES, HAI
SYDNEY.
SINGER’S SEWING M
HATE
All the Latest Improv
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOB
Large*t Variety of V
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOU
Strength and Beauty ol
SINGER’S SEWING W
FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, an
SINGER’S SBJVINQ M
FOE
Plaiting, Binding, and 1
SINGER’S SEWING W
foe
Kilting, Cording, and 1
Singer’s Sowing Machines against
all the World’s She
FIRST PLACE 100 ’
CAUTION 1 CAUTION 11
See that cmr name and trade-mark
without which none are
Ten per cent, discount
2h. 6d. WEEKLY, 2
Prom all Agents, an
THE COMPANY’S
NO. 1 DARLING STi
HARBOUR STREET
RINGER’S SEWING
TURNER A 0
abb rira
RECOGNISED A
OF STHB
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENI
2a. 6d. per week —2s. 6d. per week
And no interest oh
10 per cent, off for c
BEWARE OF I MIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
TURNER &
Opposite
JOHNSTOf
SEWING MACHIf
s
I
N
G
E
R
HATMARKE
rffri-t u»m-i •"f’-n r Hn
Business Announc
[Legal.]
SHORTER. FITZGERALD,
SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEREAGU STREE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary 1
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has cor
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite 1
News Office.
Legal.—n. w. cooke, So
3 Ground Floor. Wentworth (
ADDRES-i: 16 Sir John Young’s
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
Q. AND S. PR
SAW MILLS AND TIMI
16 Eeskinb Stef
Every description of Foreign ar
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Movlrtiw*. Casas, Turnery. Ac., s*
jp R. LA]
Wholesale and Re
PRODUCE ME R (
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
18 Qoorgo-street West (late Par
And
Dorlinghnrst Road, near Wi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed anc
P. R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine and
778 and 780 GEORGE STRI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B. —Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayi
CENTRAL FURNISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, and
Come and inspect our large S
FURNITURE aA lowest prices In tl
WE FURISH HOUSES oi
from £'lo to £I(XX), nt th
NISHING ARCADE. Nos. 29. 3
street.
CENTRAL FURNISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, an
H. LEVY & CO. desire to call tl
public to their larto and magniflc
Household FURNITURE, at pn«
petition. Every article marked in p
carefully packed, and sent to all pai
A LARGE ASSORTMENT
the best makers —Errard, I
time payment. CENTRAL PURN
Nos. 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
OTI C E
OP R ]
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUPAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCR!
and EARTHENWi
Beg tOhnhOnnflß that they have
REMOVE
to
Chemists and Dm
. 7 T *
CAUTION. —In our stylo of
sadden changes of temper
and sunshine often intermingled
it is no wonder that our child
relatives are so frequently take
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Bo
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a 1
and perhaps death, by the us<
doses For curing Consumptii
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Ore
of the Throat or Lungs, its succ
derful, as your druggist will
Syrup is now sold in every t(
this continent. Sample botth
regular siae, 3s. Wholesale A
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into I
two years ago, where thousands ■
—and one year in Sydney ; and son)
of Rheumatism have boon cured i
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long stai
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Ai
few minute#.
Several cases of Deafness oared lr
HEA.D OFFICE
80 WATERLOO-ROAD, 1
and
107 OASTLEEEAGH STREI
S, W. GAMBLE, Pro
ELLIOTT BROS.. WHOLESALE
STREET, SYDNI
MANZ ANITA FEI
TRY THEM.
The beet medicine over invented f
Tbousaads of people in Sydney hi
have been cured of Biliousness, Ii
ness, Sick Headaches, and all com]
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office : S) W ATERLOO E
and 107 CASTLEEEAQH SIR]
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro]
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLBI
PITT STREET, SYI
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
FOB
IN DIGEST]
AND
STOMACH COMPLi
• # * They are also much reoomme
tive for Females, being safe, gent
their operation, leaving no disposl
and being free from any tendenc,
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor aad Manufacturer-
F. E. SLOP
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEN
OXFORD STREET 5
J S. ABE AH AM’ 8 PILLS
* THE GREAT LIVER E
And successful substitute for Ci
Fodophjllnm, and all Noi
Famous M ft Restorative to Heoll
Famous as an Invlgorator of the
Famous for th* Core of all Diton
Stomasb. _.
Most famous as tMßfnyTvule
gives cold, and
inert delicate of either ses, t
taka them.
Bd earefcl not to get I
IN One b:
Invented and Prepared
J. S. ABBA
At the Laboratoi
434 GEORGE STREET,
4
Uovomber 12, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


It will astonish many to hoai
given for the newspaper, in the Guh
from a jury of four. There must bo
The Tasmanians aro boginnlni
fact that they nre more heavily taxe
dearer, than in the adjoining ooloult
so notorious that a committee appo
lativo Assembly recommend that *
be made on the duties now payable
daily and universal consumption, t
determine the cost of living, so thi
ceed the cost of living in the other 1
that, In particular, the duty on 1
cattle, as also ou carcase meat, shi
A tradesman or good workman cai
other colonies —say South Australii
South Wales—on £2 per week, than
for £3, meat being 2fclb. more, the 4
apparel, especially boots and shoes,
The efforts of the Zoological
ing with success in the amalgamat:
birds. A gentleman at Botany hi
finches frequently singing in his
appear to be building close by. Lai
in the same vicinity, had three
grounds, and has seen as many ns e:
fid little songsters iu one flock. Th
which Mr. Copeland set at 1 inert
appear to have free-selected m Ni
Viava frnnnentlv been heard in tb
OUR PRISON SYSTEM.
REMEDISS.
BY ONE WHO KNOWS.
I should not bo worth my salt could I not—after
having pointed out the main defects of the “ system,”
find illustrated my remarks by actually existing ex.
attipifes—suggest remedies ; and J shall now proceed, in
the shortest space possible, to point them ouL Ex-
pferiehce ought to go a long way in comparison with the
theorizing of the higher official who criticizes ckmdugt
of which he knows no more than his subordinates
chosso to tell him.
• ft *
So long as a wholesale demoralization, such as
I have seen, is allowed to go on, what can we expect but
that the criminal statistics of New South Vales will
continue to short an unlavoutable aspect? The very
foundation of all prison discipline should be for P-hort-
sentenced prisoners complete, and for long-sentenced
ones effective partial, separation—especially at night,
•• Tes, but we cannot do it,” answers the head of the
department: " we have no room." Now, it Is as well
known to those who take any interest in the subject as
It is to Mr. Maclean and ryself, that E whig (finished
ttbont 1871) was constructed and Intended for prisoners
frho should be treated on the ” separate” principle at
tight time, but the contingencies of the criminal com-
munity became s icb that the cells which were origin-
ally intended for one had to bo “ let" to three prisoners.
Tbiiik, gentlemen who have the fate of tbonsanda of
our fellow citizens in jour hands —I say think of the
frightful deterioration of character that takes place “ in
there" during the long evenings, when, sleep being
impossible, ''yarns” ore spun, and when a man (in ac-
cordance with the “ system” to ho thoroughly impreg-
nated with all the odour of crime, I suppose) is monthly,
Otteil Weekly, and occasionally nightly, shifted from one
Cell to another, having to mis with now companions
associate With the most iucoflgrtious elements, and hear
language which rndkea, even novfr, spinal marrow
ache 1 let us- for the sake of the rising generation,
find a remedy for this. Is it, I ask, right to pitch into
a quarantined small-pox house, where the inmates are
strongly attacked with confluent variola, theyodth who
has merely caught a cold ?
• • •
Above all things, place tho comparatively un-
contamiuat-ed beyond the reach of moral contagion.
Let tho punishment he short, sharp, and incisive, but
let it be of such a description that it does not increase
tho facilities for learning crime, which is th» case now,
instead of repressing it. There is not the least doubt
in my mind that tho best deterrent for first offenders is
•‘separate)” neither can it be disputed that it is the
best conducted part of tho •• system j” and as it is
possible to expend it, it will maiuly depend upon the
Judges of the land If it la to bo applied or not. For, at
present, all the pood that Is brought about by solitude,
reflection, suitable books, and careful advice, is utterly
eradicated by the Subsequent contact with the very
Worst elements. And It is. nctasonsa to say that this
principle cannot bo extended. Why this has not been
dona long! since is bocaitw Mr. Maclean Is so
thoroughly wedded to the existing system that he Is
blinded to Its faults. Or else, why allow the new
large gaol, which Is noW being built at Goulburn, at a
Cdst whltin will reach £50,000 before It is finished, tv be
constructed with ** associated ” cells ? Maitland has
only single cells, and 1 have reason to think that Mait-
land Gaol is the beet conducted in the colony, although
I have never even seen it. Vide note.
# # ft
Two wings of Darlinghurst aro occupied by
female prisoners, who, of conrve, are always separated
from the males Now, It is only a matter of time when
that will have to be changed. Instead of throwing
away £40,000 before the contemplated work is done,
upon Trial Bay, and erecting a gaol which possibly may
reproduce tho horrors of Cockatoo Island or Port
Arthur, why not bill'd, in the vicinity of Syduev, a
prison solely for femalvs ? It must be done—some day.
The exigencies of the ma-'culino criminal fraternity
are sure to demand more room, notwithstanding the
expected exodus to '1 rial Bay. And then the separate
system could be applied. This is hot fitneiful theory,
1 reason from stubborn facts, and I repeat what I said
tn the first of these papers, that if a young man, who
has fallen for a first time, were placed (or six, nine, or
twelve months totally by himself, under strict dis-
cipline, he would emerge from the prison with such a
feeling of abhorrence for it, that it would act as a warn-
ing for the future. By this means—and this means only
■=-we would reach the two objects of punishment and
reformation joined together. As it iaj the latter is
Unattainable,'
ft ft •
§9 long as remission is allowed for good con-
duct, it should extend to all well-conducted prisoners
alike. It is the duty of the Judges to award punish-
ment for offences committed in the outer world j and
the system " which draws n distinction by which Bdch
punishment is increased) is fatllty Ih inception and
Unjust In practice. 1 havft already giveil examples how
h man Whd gets tfrolVo months find a Week is, in many
tespectß, infinitely better off than one who only gets
tWelfe months, and it is time this were changed. Re-
mission should be allowed on all Criminal Court «r
Quarter Sessions sentences, and on those of tho Po'ico
Court which amount *« three months and upwards. In
Pentridge, as I understand, when a man commits a
breach of discipline he is either confined on bread and
water —in which case he has to “ do ” a similar period
again at labour as that he thus spent in compulsory
idleness—or he is told that, in consequence of the
offence, two, three, or seven days will be deducted from
his remission. And them in Bottle sKtIBC ih that, be-
sides, all prisoners hats there an equal chance of
diminishing thfiir punishment by meritorious behaviour.
Strange, passing strange, that men will be blind to such
a patent fact as this, that the three times convicted
man (who presumedly is Worse than the novice, hut has
no remission to lose at present), will ndteatea straw **
whether he commits a breach of the rules, and is, there-
fore, ia a manner encouraged to bounce, gamble, or be
obstreperous, I have ccch it often enough.
ft * *
The ration-scale is a marvel. The leas criminal
the offender is, the heavier he is punished in the thoraio
region. Poor devils wh > have sinned a little, Or whO
have taken a glass too much, have to live uHon a spud
a day ” for dinner, and eat thhit “ bttrgOo " (t t. hdminy)
without Sttgal- or evru Silt, While the graver offenders
who manage to get Sentences frein one year and upwards
ft.re pretty Well CAired for. As for the cooking and kitchen
taanagomehk, it is simply disgraceful. For one thing,
the kitchen is the dirtiest place in Darlinghurst) aad
Who Can rti.-fend such a stale of things as this ? It la
One of the maxims that yon have dinned into your ears
that a man Is supposed to be innocent until bo is found
guilty, but *' up there " (as, Indeed, elsewhere also) you
punish him long before ha Is brought into court. A
committed man is allowed 12 oz. bread, 12 oz. meal for
hominy, lox. meat, 6oz. potat-oos, daily, and no more.
The moment ho gets his sentence of (say) 18 months,
he is comparatively in clover, for ho receives a whole
pound of mevt (reduced in the cooking to one-half), a
pound and a half of bread, and one ounce of sugar daily
to his hominy, besides being almost sure of obtaining
place in a moss where two or three are ‘‘on ten, sugar,
and tobacco,” and thus becomes a partaker of these
luxuries, at which the authorities generally wink—
thereby establishing the truth of my statements. It
must, however, bu added that committed men can
‘‘keep themselves” —in which case the Government
does not give them “board,” though the “lodgings”
are secured to them. But it is not everyone—not,
indeed, more than about a fourth —who have friends,
or the means to supply these advantages. The same
kind of rations ought to be given to all who are at
labour, and deprivation should be for those who adopt
what is called " the Government stroke.” But, in all
candour, I don't believe there would be over a dozen up
at Darlinghurst entitled to “ full rations ” if hard
labour were enforced. Lazinoa* is the ruling principle;
and the man who, to distract bis thoughts, or from
inclination, really work*, is looked down upon by his
fellow-prisoners either as a sneaking time-server or a
confounded fool.
• « «
Before concluding these papers I would desire
to make an explanation. Statements of persons who
have been placed in such a position as that in which I
have been enabled to make the observations partially
revealed here, ore necessarily to ho accepted w
caution, and the maj jrity of rdy readers will probably
hare done so with a mental reservation of one kind or
another. Nevertheless, I have acted fairly towards all,
and, as I never was persecuted, tyrannized over, or in
any way ill-treated —bat, on the contrary, received all
the consideration I was entitled to, and possibly a little
more, from the Comptroller-General down to the tem-
porary warder —-I cannot think that any sort of feeling
of resentment has actuated me. My motive has, from
the beginning, been to obtain reformation in a system
which I from my heart believe to be radically wrong;
to try to save the young from falling into the seething
cesspool of immorality, upon the brink of which I have
been compelled to rest so long ; and to call the atten-
tion of our leading men and the public to the grave evil
which is officially fostered. Whether my words will
have had suifiuent weight to force on a change of ‘ the
system ” is, of course, impossible for me to say, but
that earnest men have taken notice of my earnest en-
treaties dud are moving In the right direction, I have
already had ample proofs. It is no light thing in such
a city as Sydney to plunge cmerself into notoriety, after
having possessed a good name and a fair character sud
lost them j but, if 1 were only assured that through my
instrumentality the true principles of prison discipline
would he adopted, youth saved from contamination
while being duly punished for their oilences, and an
equitable treatment insured to all, I would think but
little of the sacrifice I have made.
* Cronqr.ist, was on Monday last, sentenced to two
years in Maitland gaol.
The Fokbes Times, a paper that has hitherto
devoted its columns to “wonderful 'goannas”' and
“four-headed lambs,” hoe turned humorous. The
editor denies that Mr. W. T. Coonnn, the Into member,
is a native of Forbes. “ No,” says the editor, “ Mr.
Coonau is a native of Bolygamygulmau, in the parish
of Balderolderogery.’*
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Christchurch C.E. Cathedral, recently conse-
crated, coats £66,000.
Cardinal Manning says “he is a oit of a
M jtJiodist in his way."
Tho “ solo mania" is greatly on the increase in
Anglican churches In England.
Tho running of the trams on Sunday at Christ-
church (N.Z ) is an immense success.
Glebe Presbyterian Church flourishing- Great
increase in number o( young members.
Dean Stanley bequeathed =£soo to Paul Loyson,
son of Pete Hyacinth?, the ex-Carmelite monk.
There are thirteen Maori clergymen of tho
Church of England in the dioceee of Auckland.
There was no Roman Catholic on tho Testament
Revision Committee. Cardinal Newman declined.
Bishop Moorhouse says lie has been called an
Infidel by the newspapers and by some people of his own
church.
Thoßsrv Dr. Steel lectures in St Peter’s school,
Woolloomooloo, on tho 15th instant. Subject: "Rome,
Fagan and PapaL"
Tho Eer. Dr. White “ has been given to under-
stand" that the native teachers in the New Hebrides
are the personal servants of the missionaries there.
The Church of England in Sydney wants to
extend tho missions among the Aborigines, Chinese,
and South Sea Islanders. Whatl And empty churches
in Sydney.
The Eev. D. Jones Hamer, of Wolverhampton,
England, has accepted the pastorate of the Collins-
street Independent Church, Melbourne. Ho will arrive
early next year.
The Whitehall Review must now be re-
garded as an accredited organ of the Roman Commu-
nion among London society journal*. It is recognised
as such by tho Roman hierarchy.
Archdeacon King, and not Dr. Ellis, no un-
authoriscdly announced, preached at Trinity Church,
the other Sunday evening. The church was crowded,
and yet the Archdeacon was not pleased.
Spurgeon was once addressed in the street by a
person Who, with the briefest of introductions, called
bird a Vefy gtsnt humbng. *' I'm only too happy,”
said Spurgeon, "td bd a Very great anything."
The English Anti-Atheist Hnion, established to
r< sist the flood of infidelity which threatens to over-
whelm "a God-fearing nation,” is being largely sap-
ported. Subscriptions are numerous and liberal.
The Rov. L. Brown, of Napier, N Z , is dead.
Deceased was a Baptist minister, nnd at the time of his
death as employed on a Napier journal. He was
pastor of tho Uaptlst Qhu’ch, Kynoton, Victoria, about
four years ago.
In a country school a fcW nfllse from Dunedin,
tho teacher recently informed tho scholars that the head
of the English Church was the Quoon, the herd of the
Roman Catholic Church the Pope, but the head of the
Presbyterian Church was Christ.
The Rev. Dr. Geekio said, in the Presbyterian
Assembly, on Thursday, that he never came to Sydney
except with the most profound reluctance, and it was
rarely that he loft it except with disgust. The feeling
is mutual, Debtor, We assure you.
“ A true specimen of the good old English
sporting parson," the Eev Charles Dun das Everett,
rector of Bessolsleigh, near Oxford, was killed Instan-
taneously recently whi’e riding with his pack,
rev. gentleman was master of the Berkshire Vale
Harness.
ls spreading in religious circles In
Sydney. On Sunday evening last week, the Eev. Walter
Mathison, B.A. preached & os*mon, in Pitt-street
Congregational Church, from the *’ Consider the
lilies how they grow." He ought soon to rory
poppy-lax.
In the report presented to All Saints’ Churcil
Union, Melbourne, held tho other day, a fear is ex-
pressed “lest our Church’s teaching be overwhelmed
by the united waves of secularism, infidelity, and dis-
sent, which seem fast washing out all reverence
and awe of God and His holy things.”
The Duke of Edinburgh has been posing as a
religious censor. He took a flsC,* Ijfi P double sense, out
of the snobbish congregation of Holy Tl'inlfy Ghnrcb,
Hull. When he came in, they all rose to thCi? wot |
but presently, when the clergy and choir entered, OO
one stood up cieccpt the Duke and his equerry.
Isn’t this true all over Christendom ? “ Out of
fifteen churches in Liverpool, E., visited by a special
repdrtSr, there were ten which had less than 100 wor-
shippers, the accommodation varying from 750 to 1200.
In one there were only fifteen adults, while in scarcely
any did the people kneel, The «erri9o« wore of the
dreariest description.
Cardinal Manning his delivered a reffiafkablo
address on education to the Catholic School Board at
Cardiff, in tho West of England. He comprehended all
Church of England, Wesleyan, Presbyterian, Con-
gregational, Baptist, and other schools under the head
of Christian ifiStr"e*>on, and claimed to fight shoulder
to shoulder with the ErOtSstsut denominations against
s:cular education. The speech made a very deep im-
pression.
Who thinks of sermons after church f
Our duty wt’ve performed for one day.
And left the preacher in the porch
Until next Sunday.
We chanted, made responses right,
Confes-scd ns miserable sinners,
And now wo s?ek an appetite,
For lunch or dinners.
Tho very latest. Eather Nolan, of Colac. Vic.,
has severely censured the local regatta committee for
fixing their regatta on a Friday, Which is a day of ab-
stinence for Catholics. The rev. gentleman requested
Lis congregation to hav« nothing to do with tho regatlfl*
As the Jews may object to the affair coming off on a
Saturday, the Protestants on a Sunday, and the China-
men may, on religious grounds, strongly oppose a
Wednesday boat-race, the ColaO public should be
happy iu Ihtir election between gospel and wager-
lOalS.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Conrfcsliip has two mates, but usually n°
captain.
The proper day to visit the dentist—Tooth-day
(excuse lisp).
Dried apples will change the greatest rough into
the greatest swell.
Give a boy a bad name, and it sticks to him.
Not so with a girl. She can change here.
It’s bad when the passengers are all heaving to
hear the captain giving orders for the ship to heave to.
A man named Mosity got married last week to
a girl named Annie. Will thero bo any ill-feeling
betweeu them.
It is stated, on the word of one of the local
clergymen. that there's not. a girl in Nanango, Q., Ibafc
hasn't jilted some poor fellow. A wag writes, oovr-
gratnlating the gentlemen.
New York’s latest lahdy-dah : “Do you play
the piano?” “No; I don’t play the piano, but my
sister Hannah, who is in Savannah, plays the jriauo
in the most charming manuah.” “ HaveUxuiaua!
When cricket consecrated to men is
By orthodox rules at an end,
On the ladies for love and lawn tennis
We still can depend.
A Paris pawnbroker was seized with a fit and
carried in a dying stnte into a hospital. A cruciiix was
held before his eyes. The Hebrew stared at the em-
blem with glaring eyes, and gasped with his last brea b,
“ I can't lend more than two francs ou it."
There was an old lady named Greer,
A total abstainer so queer;
She drank watered milk,
And wore watered silk,
And was drowned —so had water for bier.
“ This is a nice time of night for you to bo
coming in," said a mother to her daughter, who re-
turned from a walk at ten o'elock. “ Whon I was like
you," continued she, " my mother would not let me wit
later than seven o’clock." “ Oh, you had a nice sort of a
mother," murmured the girl. “I hnd, you young iadiq
said the mother, “ a nicer mother than ever you had.’
The sprightly Bhoy to the wars 2ms gone.
In Dublin sure you’ll find him ;
His quenchless passion prods him on.
And the divil hinJßelf can’t bind hiin-
“ Land of Song,” says the warrior bold,
“ Though Saxou ghouls bewray us,
We'll flout with scorn our wrongs untold
So long as you can pay us."
THE BOY AND THE BANANA SKIN.
Thn banana skin to the small boy did say.
What will von now the deuoe with play,
When to eaol you'll go, or else to pay.
If mo yon put in the fat gent’s way ?"
11 Whist! " the small boy did make reply :
" Jest watch that duffer kick the sky T’
There was a thud and a joyous cry,
And the small boy said : " Huw’a that for high t ”
Original Version.
When Johnny kirsed his Mary Jane,
She thus rebuked the blnshiug swain s—
"Now yon take book that kiss again.”
Eevisbd VbMKH?.
This way the story to ns coroe :
F"r one long hour J.IX kept mum,
While nought was beard but " yum, jmn, yum.’'
Conclusion (probablt).
Then onmo a jump. A noise upon the stair.
A change of seats A fixing up of hair.
A voice, “ How long d’you mean to stny up there ? ”
WOMAN ITEMS.
Aboat <£50,000 has been subscribed lor Mis.
Garfield.
A man is as JOtmg as he feels, and a woman aa
old as she looks.
The Empress Eugenio returns to England in a
few mouths, when her house at Fnrnborough is ready
for her reception.
The recent severe weather in England has not,
sc? London papers say, deterred the Queen from
taking Ifnß drives almost dally. Her Ma jorty rs said to
be quite juvewhs again.
According to the new Edncation code in Eng-
land, all boys at school »te to be taught to sew, so tbnft
when they get to be men they will be able to fix un
their owu buttons. Another vile attempt to do awty
with the sacred institution of marriage I
The latest novelty in fashionable circles is a
dress album, with tiny patterns of every costume the
OWn*f t*as ever worn, and the dato attached to them.
Iu this hiftnnsr, however extravagant a woman may b* ,
she will always hwrs something to show for her expendi-
ture.
Miss Tick has been lecturing to laditje at tho
Melbourne Gymnasium, on '• Personal Hygiene.” Her
remarks were of addressed lo Indies ouij,
but we learn that she did notipafe criticism on tome
of the n odern styles of dressing. Such matters as diet,
bathing. »-nd the necessity for more physical rxeren-o.
were dcriU with. Miss Dick considers that lasbionaldo
clothing has to' a great extent caused tho unsatisfactory
female physique of the present day. If parents gave
their daughters more cXer-dse when young, there would
be fewer of the wax-doll class when they got older. Au
long as the footpaths are crowdsd with women wbo«
dress merely to please “ the lust of the eye, men
admire these meretricious figures so temptingly pre-
pared toe atch their homage, the feminine physique is
not likely to improve. A little systematic exercise
would not be a bad exchange for some of the fadittereut
Piano banging so universally practised.
INTAGLIO.
Frank Denz.
BY HENRY KENDALL.
lu the roar of the storm —in the wild, bitter voice of tli6
tempest-whipped sea.
The cry of my darling—my child, comes ever and ever
to me j , , . ,
And I stand where the haggard-faced wood stares down
on a sinister shore)
But all that Is kit i» the hood of the babe I can cherish
no more;
A little' Mde hood, with the shawl of the jirl that I
tetok for my wife
In a happy old season, is all that remains of the light
of my life; , ..
The wail of a woman in pain, and tic eob of a smother-
ing bird— , , ~ . ,
They come through the darkness again: in the wind
and the rain they arc heard.
O, women and men who have known the perils of
weather and wave.
It Is sad th»t my sweet ones are blown under sea with-
out shelter of grave 1
I sob like a child in the night, when the gale on the
waters Is load:
My darlings went down in my s'ght, with neither a
oefflu nor shroud.
In the whistle of wind, and tho whirl of ominous frag-
ments of wreck.
The Wife, With her poor little girl, saw death on the lee
of tho deck)
Bub, sirs, she depended on mo—eho trusted my comfort-
ing word t
Shs is down in the depths of the sea—my love, With hef
beautiful bird.
In the boat I was ordered to go—l was not more afraid
than the rest i
But a husband will falter, you know, with the love of
his life at his breast.
My captain was angry a space j but sodn he grew tender
lu tone! . ,
Perhaps there had flashed by his face, a wife and a child
of ms own.
I wi s weak for some moments, and cried; but only one
hope was in life—
Tho hood upon baby I tied—l fastened the shawl on my
Tho skipper took charge of the child—ho stuck to his
word till the last j
But only this hood on the wild, hitter shore of the sea
had been daSoi
In the place of a coward, who shook like a leaf In the
quivering boat,
A seat at tha rowlocks I took; but tho sea had me soon
by the throat!
The surge gripped me fast by the nock—in a ring, and a
roll, and a roar,
I was oast, like a piece of the wreck, on a bleak beaten
shelterless shore.
And there Were my darlings oil toird, for th« rest of
that terrible day; ,
And I watched, and I prayed to the Lord, as neWer be-
fore I could pray.
The windy bills stared at the black, heavy cloud coming
over the wave i
ity girl was expecting me back; but where woe my
power td save}?
Ah 1 where was my power, When £(Sati> was glaring at
me from the reef ?
I cri*d till I gasped for my breath, aloof with a madden-'
ing grief.
We couldn’t get hack to the deck—l wanted to go, hut
the sea
Dashed over the sides of the wreck, and earned my dar-
ling from me.
O, girl that I took by the Hand to the altar two sum-
iii Hrfl agOj
I would you were buried On latui=my dear, it would
comfort me so I
1 would you were sleeping where grows the grass and
the musical reed)
For how Can you find a repose in tho toss of tho tangle
and Weed!
The night sped along, and t strained through the
shadow, and saw to the end
My captain and bird—he remained to the death a SUpt f-
lativo friend;
In the face of tho hurricane wild, he clung With the
babe to the most:
To the last he was true to my child-=he was true to my
child to the last
The Wind, like a life without lidmC, comes knotting fit
door and at pane,
In tho time of the cry of the foam—in the season of
thunder and rain!
And, dreaming, I start in the bed, and fool for my little
one’s brew j
But lost is the beautiful head ■ the cradle Is tenantless
now.
My home was all morning and glow, when wife and her
baby were there)
But, ah! it is saddened, you know, by dresses my girl
used to wear.
I cannot re-enter tho door (its threshold can never ho
crossed),
For fear I should see on the floor, the shoes of tho child
I have lost.
There were three of us once in the world ; but two arc
deep down in the sea.
Where waif and where tangle are hurled—tho two that
were portions of me.
They arc far from me now, but I hear, when hushed are
the night and the tide,
The voice of my little one near, tho step of my wife by
my side.
SUCH IS LIFE.
Bell
Toll!
Knell
Eolll
Born,
Worn,
Gone
Soul.
Hart!
Nigh 1
Dark I
Bigh I
Wife I
Siri/el
Life 1
Cry 1
The Poor Player
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night, in magnificent splendour,
Ho sat on his “property" throne,
And beauty bowed low in his presence.
And fabulous wealth was his own—
This morning, how hungry 1 How gladly
Some little boy’s dinner he d bone !
Last night, with a generous impulse,
That woke a reciprocal throb
In our bosoms, in lavish profusion.
Ho threw his bright gold to the mob—
To-day, with his hands in his pockets.
He searches in vain for a “ bob 1
Last night, an all-powerful monarch—
He scarce condescended to hear
The prayers that his poor “ super peasants
Presen'-ed in trembling and fear —
To-day, his humility’s touching, (>
He’d go on his knees for a “ beer ’
Ye critics in front of the curtain.
Who hear all an actor's gay mirth,
Ye know not his heart may lie aching
The while he is giving it birth—
The idol ye worship as golden
Is made of the commonest earth.
Last night, in a world all unreal.
Each action was only a feint;
His sorrow, his anger, his gladness,
Were all tinged with falsity s taint;
Ave ! even love’s kiss was fictitious
For fear it should rub off the paint.
To-day, now the mimicry's over,
The facts that are real remain *,
The actor is back in his garret,
A ««,nl-starved pauper again—
A. poor ansi gnificant unit,
A a shower of ram .
L. B. AND A F.
5
THE BULLETIN.
November 12, IB^i.


TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTILITY TOGETHER!
WHEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or what can resist them ? All three are
the ruling principles at the
PALACE EMPORIUM.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDR NAND SONS
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES as proof both positive and certain of
the soundness of those principles upon which their business is based. The people in all ranks of
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We are now showing daily
OUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS.
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You may profitably spend a few moments
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A VISIT to the PALACE EMPORIUM
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASH-
MERE, BEIGE, 4c.
DRESSM AKIN G.
MANCHESTER
GOODS.
.TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
LADIES & CHILDREN
MANTLES. COS-
TUMES, MILLI-
NERY, 4c.
"FANCY” GOODS.
YOUTHS’ and MEN’S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ONLY ONE ADDRES.3
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an immense assortment at Is fid, Is Bd.
and la lOd per yard. Of the truly splendid JAUBERT GEOS GRAIN SILK
there are 2000 yards at 2a per yard; 2200 at 2s 3d; 10 pieces at 2s fid per yard ;
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3 cases, the prices ranging from 3s fid to
10a fid a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GEOS GRAIN, known as BONNET’S
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s fid, 4s 3d, ss, Gs 3d, up to 12s fid. Our
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are beauty itself. Once see them, and
it will be long before you forget them. There is COLOURED SATIN ; also,
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 22d per yard. There is every shade.
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH BEIGE, all wool, all shades, 7£d a
yard. There is the fashionable SARATOGA COSTUME CLOTH, at 9d.
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, remarkably cheap and good; and there
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT, turning out
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly and yet carefully.
There are CALICOES in all makes and at low prices. There is DIMITY
FIGURED from s|d; TABLE DAMASK from la 4d; LINEN DIAPER at
all prices, and COTTON DIAPER at fid; GREY SHEETING from up to
Is 3d; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ranging from 7|d to ls7id; and Twill
from lOd up to Is 9d. There are TURKISH TOWELS, 6£d each; and
HONEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED, 5s 9d; PRINTED, from 4s lid:
and the “RENOWNED VELVET PILE,” 21s, may bo obtained.
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The goods are either button, elastic, or
laced. They are durable and fashionable. You may get anything here, from
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LADY’S COURT SHOE.
. There are 330 beautiful DOLMANS and JACKETS. There are 300 superb
COSTUMES. There is every sort of shape in STRAW HATS and BONNETS.
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sight in itself.
There are RIBBONS, all shades, all colours, all prices. Theresa LACE,
Spanish, Cream, Gold, REAL BRETONNE, &c. The PALACE KID
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innumerable.
There is a continuous stream of Customers for our SUITS for Youths and
Boys, and for our well-known cheap and fashionable TROUSERS, VESTS,
SUITS, SHIRTS, HATS, CAPS, COLLARS. SCARFS, and NECKTIES
for men.
And the great point to bo observed is this, that we have ONLY ONE
address, and NO BRANCHES whatever, our card of business being simply
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY,)
SYDNEY.
S 3
Trade
Mark.
KEROSENE 150 - TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERY SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
Tor Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Solo Importers. Being refined and
expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed, this oil should be tried by
EVERYO-SE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of
the City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LASSETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
T
HEA T E E
Lessee
Treasurer.
ROYAL.
Mr. S. Lazar.
.Mr. G. L. Goodman.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
November 10 and 11,
STRUCK OIL.
SATURDAY EVENING, November 12,
PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Doors open at 7.15, com-
mence at 8.
Yictoeia hall.
CASTLEEEAGH-STREET,
Lessee and Manager D’Arcy Read.
Immense Success of
THE NOVEL and WONDERFUL EXHIBITION,
“ L’AGIOSCOPE,”
MONDAY, November 7,
and during the week,
VOYAGE ROUND THE WORLD IN 60 DAYS.
First appearance of
HERR MEYER LUTZ, who will perform, for the
first time in Sydney,
SELECTIONS on the ZITHER.
Admission—3s, 2s, Is.
Tickets at A. Huenerbein’s, Qoorge-streot.
Commence at 8 o’clock.
Business Manager, SYDNEY HALL.
GEEAT WOELD CIECUS,
THE MAMMOTH PAVILION CROWDED
NIGHTLY.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION.
TREMENDOUS APPLAUSE.
EVERYBODY SATISFIED.
THE GREAT WORLD CIRCUS.
Surpasses all expectations, and is entirely unexceptional
in tone.
COME EARLY AND WITNESS THIS
GRAND, GLORIOUS,
LAVISH, COSTiLY, WONDERFUL,
and entirely
UNOBJECTIONABLE AMUSEMENT FEAbT.
THE GEEAT MORAL SHOW
Of the Nineteenth Century.
EDIFYING, INSTRUCTIVE,
ENTERTAINING.
Every Act Advertised on our Programme
Faithfully Carried Out.
OPEN EVERY EVENING,
LOCATION i
haymaß&et HeserYE,
Our Programme ChaUgeS
EVERY THIRD NIGHT.
Grand Performance on
WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AFTERNOONS,
At 2.30 o’clock,
FOR THE BENEFIT OP FAMILIES
Residing at a distance.
rjIHEATEE ROYAL, BRISBANE;
General Manager Mr. Duncan Maccullum.
MACULLUM first opens, date 10th December. Com-
panies and artists invited to communicate.
WANTED Two LADY PROFESSIONALS.
to take part in performances on the 23rd and
21th inst. Apply at once, stating lowest terms, less
expenses, to W. H. KELLY, Manager, Garrick Drama-
tic Society, West Maitland.
WILL. HAYWOOD, Character VOCALIST,
and MUSICAL INSTRUMENTALIST, hav-
ing arrived from Loudon, after a most successful tour
round the world; will be at liberty shortly for Bur-
lesque Concerts, Pantomime; several novelties. Ad-
dress, W. HAYWOOD, General Post Office, Sydney.
M E.
AND MRS. EDWIN PALMER
(LEADING OLD MAN AND WOMAN.)’
Another great success as
MR. AND MRS. MOLE.
Open at Brisbane, Oct. 10.
M K -
and MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
Zulu war.
ADDRESS;
Hobart, till November 16.
New Zealand to follow
M
ASONIC
SOCIAL
AND
RE-UNION
SOIREE DANSANTE,
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER, IS, 1881,
Under the auspices of LODGE St ANDREW 858,
SCOTCH CONSTITUTION,
IN THE
FREEMASON’S HALL, YORK STREET.
TICKETS Double, 10s. 6d ; Gentlemen, 7s. 6d. ;
Ladies, ss. To he had at Masonic Hall, York-stroet,
and of any of the members.
JJONDI BEACH, BONDI.
BONDI PACIFIC PAVILION.
Open every SATURDAY AFTERNOON from 2 to 6
o’clock, for DANCING.
The finest Pavilion in the Southern Hemisphere.
G. Bailey’s Excelsior Brass Band and efficient M.G.
in attendance.
Admittance, 25.; Ladies free.
A FIRST-CLASS BILLIARD TABLE.
The finest double SKITTLE ALLEY in the Colonies,
J. HEINZ, Proprietor.
N.B.—Open for engagement for Picnic parties.
fjl H E AVENUE,
RECREATION;AND PIC-NIC GROUNDS
or THE
LANE COVE RIVER.
Steamers leave Lime-street Wharf, foot of Erskine-
street, daily, as per Time-table.
THE LARGEST RECREATION GROUND about
Sydney, ivith most beautiful Scenery and Shade.
SWINGS, SEE-SAWS, CRICKET, QUOITS, BOWLS.
A SPLENDID PAVILION FOR DANCERS, with
BAND MUSIC, and SPECIAL STEAMERS
every Saturday and Holiday.
Admittance on above days, including return passage
per Steamers, Is. 6d.; Children under twelve years, 9d.
Admittance on other days, Is.; Children, 6d.
Tickets to be shown at the Entrance.
TEMPERANCE REFRESHMENTS, Tea, Coffoe, &c„
supplied at moderate rates.
Special arrangements made for Schools and Sooiettea
by applying to N. Jocbekt, Lime-street Wharf,
•srEvery endeavour will bo made to give satisfaction
to pleasure-seekers,—the sale of intoxicating drinks
b'ging strictly prohibited, and disorderly or troublesome
-Arsons expelled ormw' ■’• 1
OF GOOD PURE TEA!
We beg to draw your
PARTICULAR ATTENTION
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY’S
PACKET TEAS,
Packed|in pounds and hall-pounds
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
Special Quotations given to Wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 PITT STREET (next School of Arts),
SYDNEY.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
Affiliated to Trin. Coll., London.
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Principal :
Dr. RODWAY, M.A., F.R.S L. (Lon.)
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY are conducted by Dr.
RODWAY, and the number of students in each class is
strictly limited to TEN, so that he may give to each
gentleman that individual attention which will alone
secure success. Dr. Rod way’s system is easy and effi-
cient, and he guarantees to pass every candidate he
sends to the University—Law, Civil Service, and all
Public Examinations.
FEES: Per term, in advance, for each class SA Is
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor will be ’
awarded upon the conclusion of each term
to the
PURE INDIAN TEA,
PURE CEYLON TEA.
PURE JAVA TEA,
2s. and 2s. fid. per lb.
2s. fid. and 3s. per lb.
2s. fid. and 3s. per lb.
2s. fid. and 3s. per lb.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,I9I William-street, Sydney.
DR. RODWAY ... PRINCIPAL.
PRINCIPAL,
gMALL POI. SMALL POX.
PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE.
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHET is the best PRE-
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX. Price, Is.; from all
Chemists.
S’
JOHN SAND
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS
and
NEW YEAR CARDS.
This Collection has been specially designed to meet a
much needed requirement, namely, that of providing
cards suitable for sending home calculated to convoy to
our friends an idea, not only of the beauty of our
scenery and flora, but, at the same time, show the
advance Australia, and Sydney in particular, is making
in t lie Jb me Arts.
There being an erroneous idea prevalent—owing to
their excellence—that these cards have been produced
in Europe f r°m colonial designs, I take this opportunity
w public that they have been specially
my cm P lo y> and produced
® rVi, mo ' Ll Process at my own works,
and are the result of a competition held at the Art
S . W -’ in May last, for premirans of the
PoLi fl n y ? ulnea s. given by me for the best Christ-
mas Card Designs. These are thirty-eight in number,
and include, amongst other cards illustrative of Bush
Life, Australian Animals, Fruits, Flowers, Birds, and
insects. Colonial Scenery, Amusements of Children,
Pastoral and Allegorical subjects, and will in each case
have verses appropriate to the occasion selected from
those gaining the premium of twenty-five guineas
recently given by me, 6
The cards will be on sale on and after Monday,
October 17, and may be obtained at all stationers in the
colonies, and direct from
JOHN SANDS’
CHROMO-LITHOGRAPHIG WORKS,
374 George-street.
ft L E—MANZANITA PILLS and
T, 9, G ALLALA LINIMENT-REMOVED from
m? A C Mcun‘!S;n!'f c 1 t 0 36 Macqnarie-streot South.—
BRANCH OFFICE: 11 George-street West.
MACQUARIE STREET, BEFORE.
Brown eyes looking into blue.
One arm-chair containing two;
Kisses, squeezes, love confest.
Choosing duds; and all the rest.
AFTER.
Brown eyes flashing—blue in tears.
Tradesmen’s bills, and mutual jeers ;
Baby squalling—where’s the nurse ?
Isn’t married life a curse ?
BEFORE THE PICNIC.
It was only yesterday.
That my heart was blithe and gray.
That to me the world seem’d kind.
That my pockets wore well lined.
That the girl that I adore
Sworo to lore me evermore 1
AFTER.
Now with fate I am disgusted.
For my now plug hat is busted;
Not a red is in my pocket;
Gone’s my watch, my chain and locket;
Worse than all, my Isaboller,
Waltzed olf with another feller.
MIGHT v. RIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arise! my Muse, and let us wake a strain
Will set all honest men a-thinking.
Tell them, my Muse, again* and yet again.
That darksome deeds will never find us blinking—
Though strife ’twixt might and right is often vain,
Fr >m telling truth we’ll never be caught shrinking.
We’ll do all this, my Muse, and, mayhap, more—
So now, arise ! Bet inspiration pour I
"Walk over crossings,” says the Council’s law,
"Walk over crossings,” hear the policeman call:
Whit though it touches people on the raw ?
They’ve wrung their withers, and the jade must gall.
Weekly within the Treasury’s greedy maw
Shillings and pounds in bounteous showers fall.
'Pis right 1 it is a public law, for them we make it.
Make then the public pay whene’er they break it.
Precept on paper looks exceeding well,
And linked with practice, should go hand in hand:
Alas 1 alas ! that I should have to tell
How aldermen break laws like ropes of sand—
Ropes by which honest men will ring the knell
That takes them from amidst that lawless band.
« A difference,” they cry, “ ’twixt me and you:
You’re not an alderman—what you say can’t be true.”
Crosses the street-pace, " faster thana walk,”
A costermonger—man of low degree ;
Pounces upon him, as would pounce a hawk,
The transit man (a zealous man is he !)
Oets he his Ulster— ’tis no use to talk—
The law he’s broken, he must not go tree.
Comes he before the Beak —fined, " Fifteen hob.
Oh! righteous fine, that children’s mouths may rob!
But look again—see—" faster than a walk,”
Comes now a man of very high degree;
Pounces upon him, quickly as a hawk.
Same officer (a zealous man is he !)
Dm gats no blister — he the law can baulk—
He is an alderman—he may go free.
His brothers, cousins, and his friends get clear;
While Justice is—a byword for a sneer 1
The Corporation man (too zealous, he !)
Was in due time brought up before his “ Boss.”
" You stopped, you saucy officer, a real M.P.!
Because a street he would not walk across !
Now learn, you silly man, you ne’er should see
An influential man do wrong ; but slily toss
Your head the other way, and try to catch
Some wicked cabman, and fine him, the wretch!
Go than, your services we do not want.
You’re much to straight tor us. If walked straight,
Think you we’d hold our own ? Go, sir, avaunt I
Beam that the prop and pillar of the State
Is, that the man of low degree must haunt
The shadow of the greater—crawl and wait;
Then, when the great man dies, then, it he choose.
The sneak can jump into the great man’s shoes.”
Our Town Hall fabric is of world-wide fame,
Simply because the world has found it out;
From top to bottom —from clock face that oame
Across the seas, that idle winds blew out,
To that great monument of fraud andjshame.
The base foundations—all are noised about.
Ah! well it suits its occupants, and they suit it.
Like clings to like, and square pegs square holes fit.
All honour, then, to that one upright man.
Who did not hesitate to speak his mind.
Shame on the men who meanly, darkly plan
To hoodwink Justice. Do they think us blind P
Justice may be but wo’ll do all we can
To rake the rottenness frem wealth behind,
So that, if Justice is too blind to tell,
What's right by sight, it may at least by smell.
IRONBARK.
CORIN AND SYLVIA.
REVISED EDITION.
“Our rustics are exceedingly wicked rustics;
much more wicked, in fact, than town roughs and
larrikins are understood to be, though in a different
wiy; although, in truth, those are had enough.”—
Heeald.
Gone is the rustic innocence.
We read about of yore;
Arcadian simplicity,
Alas, is seen no more!
Hodge sings no more the rural song,
Nor sips the syllabub;
But thunders out “ Whoa, Emma! ”of
An evening in a pub.
And Sylvia weaves no garland now
To deck the good Squire’s halls:
Her only dream’s to curl her “ bangs,", j
And go to wine-shop balls.
The "gentle shepherd" hut wo can
No further space afford.
Except to say the rustic is
A most emphatic fraud.
“SHYLOCKS."
“ A most respectable widow lady, with four
children, girls, invested her all in furnishing a house in
Forbes-street as a boarding-house. Succeeding well,
she required more furniture, and, unfortunately for her,
applied f Jr and obtained a loan from a money-lender in
Sydney of £10, for which she was charged £68, to bo
paid weekly. After paying £11 she fell behind for a few
weeks, and the result was, just as she had got her house
full, every article of furniture, worth at least over £100,
was seized and sold, and she and her children left desti-
tute." — Lyke.
You’ll know them by their greasy looks.
Their bulbous lips and eyes so staring;
Thick are the nests of these grim rooks;
Many the hearts their toils are wearing 1
Yon mark them clad in raiment smart.
With rings upon their stumpy fingers;
Yet not within one single heart.
One little grain of pity lingers!
They care not for the sick man’s tale !
Of what avail to be appealing
To men who scorn a widow’s wail.
And have nor charity nor feeling ?
Whose thoughts are but of lucre base,
Who’d sell their souls for one more shilling ?
Ye gods ! if there’s a tropic place.
Hereafter, won’t they there be grilling !
No hell could he for them too hot.
So—Hi, down there ! Satanic sire !
Put on of cannell coal a lot,
And make a parson stir the fire.
6
November 12,1881«
THE BULLETIN.


“ I w lll advortiao thco.” Richmond Thatcher
is prepared to provide startling, interesting, and.
humorous advertising paragraphs tor insertion in This
HniiLßiiN. Tradesmen wishing to increase their busi-
nesses, address or apply to Richmond Thaxchbe,
i Bulletin Hotel. —Adv.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The substitution of “Struck Oil” for “ Eureka
at the Eoyal, on Saturday night, was a wise step on
part of the management, since the old Dutchman ana
his daughter drew, as is their wont, a very numerous
ftudieaoe. The piece is an interesting one for many
reasons | but it is chiefly curious in showing how the
Varied talents of two artistes suffice to turn a very baa
play into a singularly attractive performance. _ Mr.
Williamson’s John Stofel is a study ns perfect in its
way as any of those of Got and De'aunay, of the
Francaise. It is filled in and elaborated with
such artistic foresight and judgment, that it would bo
hard to suggest how the Pennsylvania Dutchman
could be rendered more pathetic or more amusing.
And the same may be said of Miss Maggie Moore s
Lizzie Stofel. Her appearance in the picturesque
German dress never fails to awaken in the breasts of
the audience feelings of present enjoyment, and to
conjure up very pleasant recollections of the past.
Mrs. Williamson has been associated now with this
part for a considerable time, and on each occasion the
piece is produced she seems to infuse ’nto her imper-
sonation of the cobbler's daughter so many fresh
touches of humour and pathos, that, instead of palling
upon one, as an often represented character is wont to
do, Lizzie Stofel may be said to grow—like carefully
laid down wine more and more pleasant as
years roll on. The reception accorded to the stars
was of a most flattering description, and the pitco went
like a piece of machinery) all through.
* ♦ •
To-morrow (Friday) night will see the last of
•* Struck Oil,” and on Saturday, Miss Alice Eees will
make her bow to the Sydney public in “ The Pirates of
Penzance.” Of this young lady we have heard a very
great deal; and if we are to believe the critics in the
adjoining colonies, Miss Eees is a prima donna of
extraordinary promise. She is not only very pretty
(and what a deal that means !) but her voice is said to
bo a mezzo-soprano of large range and compass, and
the cultivation it has received is of an unexception-
able kind. Besides playing Mabel in the “ Pirates,”
Miss Eees is to sing “ Patience " in Gilbert and Sul-
livan’s new opera, and also, we believe, as Amina in
* La Sonnambula.” Mr. Williamson informs us that
he has employed a well-known writer here to alter the
London locals in "The Pirates” and “Patience ’ to
Sydney ones. This work presents difficulties to the
adapter of no ordinary kind, since, while Mr. Gilbert’s
satirical versa is of so polished a character that to
write np to the standard of it is bird, and to improve
upon it impossible, the scope at the disposition of the
Sydney author is of necessity so very much more
limited. Here is a sample of his work in a verse of the
Major-General’s song
« Of soldierly accomplishments 1 have a vast variety ;
Can overcome, with one soft glance, a beauty’s con-
traiiety;
All amateur theatricals to me come—oh, quite
natural;
And marching with my warriors, I’ve the grace of a
Le Patourel.
My notion of a military manner is not misty, sirs ;
I’ve both the grace of Nathan, and the martial air of
Christie, sirs;
And then at Middle Head in all these matters most
manceavre-v,—
(Bothered for the next rhyme.)
ManoSuvre-y—mandSuvre-y—,
(fjlntcS ibitk Art fata).
I’ve got the mystic genius of both Uichardson and
Bouverie.
(Joyoaslv) I've got the mystic,” &c.
# # #
The Sergeant’s song has also been locally treated,
and the necessary touches done to “ Patience." In
the last named opera, this is the more necessary,
because many of the allusions —notably in the Grosvenor
fcnd BuUthorne duet—froiild be incomprehensible to the
majority Of a Sydney audience, Hero, tot instance: —
•* A smack Of Lord Watetfotd, reckless and rollicky—
BWagget of Eoderick. heading his clan —
The keen penetration of Paddington Pollaky—
Beadle of Burlington—Eicbardson’s show—
Mr. Mioawber and Madame Tussaud !”
Localized, it ought to run something like this (and we
cheerfully make the author a present of the hint): —
"The money of Wilson, who’s got the menagerie 5
Legal acumen of great Judge Sir Jo 5
The harmonious fiddling of Septimus Badgnty j
Peerless rhetorical pitch of Joe lioWe.
ft ft ft
The cast of thb u Pirates” will be the same as
heretofore. Miss Eees taking, as we have said, the rWe
Mabel. In “ Patience,” the part of Lady Jane will
be created in Sydney by Miss Maggie Moore ; but we
are informed that Madlle. Anuree Navaro has been
engaged by the management to play the part alternate
weeks with Mrs. Williamson, and to succeed her in it
when she leaves tor New Zealand—where she and Mr.
Williamsondue on Boxing night. The fdll 6S.St,
however* will be given in our next,
* ft ft
11 Patience” is to be followed bV“
and we may take this Opportunity df temi£king that Mr.
Mr, Williamson is deserving Of the thanks of the
IheattO-going pOrtiOn Of the ftoffimnnity here in giving
ha the first show, with his expensive novelties. With
the company at bis disposal, including, as it does, Verdi,
armOs Bennmont (both of whom have been singing of
laVg uke angels), the Williamsons themselves, the
ftQkson should excel in attractiveness any theatrical
enterprise that has hitherto been presented to the
Sydnoy public*
* * * *
Of the Gaiety Theatre, there is IjtHd 6i boohing
fresh to record. “ Never Too Late to Mend ” continues
to draw like soap find Sugar • and during the last few
days Baylest has take* td Cohimn “ ads." and to paying
hWky money frith tigb’-art cheques, all over views of the
theatre and elkhifkte monograms. The oast is a tre-
haofidenk Ofto, and the salary-list would make a Bayard
tehndfWf, Mr. Dampier “has them” right through as
'Tbin Robinson, and Emmet’s clergyman brings forth
ViVWe tears nightly from the women than would a fonr-
Dushel bag of Warrnambool onion?. Mr. Norman Vane,
as Sulky Bill, mounts a pair of gaiters every evening
which eyoke shouts of admiration from the gallery,
and his appearance further on, feebly disguised as a
bearded digger, is invariably the signal for mudh plo-
beiaa hilarity. Miss Adere, in the prison scene, is too
intensely quite j aud it they’d kindly let ns play George
Fielding, “ for one night only," we should lie down and
die in our little cot without a murmur. Mr. Holloway's
George Meadows (in a brown coat trimmed with black
velvet, short pants, and largo forty-sixes, the whole rig
surmounted by a belltopper which is in itself “well
worth a visit,” being one of the few remaining links
between the present decade and the Georgian era), is an
Impersonation t>he seen aud dreamed of; while anyone
who wishes to revel, for a moderate price, in melting
music and bask in sunny smiles, can do nothing better
than part his crown piece, and gaze upon Miss Teresa
Horan in her impersonation of Mary. One line she has
to utter, “There’s a lad? for you, sir,” brings back to
the aged playgoer visions of Eaehel and Eistori—to say
nothing of the recollections which her fantasia on the
bell conjure up of Siddons, Bracegirdle, and Mrs. Keeley.
Miss Lily Dampier’s “ Boy Josephs ” is one of the draws
ofthe piece, and Mr. Sam Poole's Jacty another. The
scenery is first-class, and altogether the performance is
one of the best things we have seen in Sydney for some
time.
* ♦ *
“Never too Late to Mend” will, in all proba-
bility, rnn for a month, when it will be succeeded, wo
believe, by a new translation of a domestic play, by
Paul Qiaccometti.done expressly for Mr Dampier. Alfred
is also to give us “ Hamlet,” once a week, soon— an
intimation which will, unless wo are much mistaken, be
received with much favour by the lovers of the legiti-
mate in our midst. Mr. Sinclair is managing for Mr.
Dampier; and the grace with which he nightly gives
the people their money back is the general remark of
admiring millions.
* * * *
A concert, under the auspices of the Highland
Society, was given in the Masonic Hall, on the 25th ult.,
tor the benefit of the Orkney and Shetland Islanders’
Eeliet Fund. Mr. llaiuford and Miss Horniman begged
to be excused. Messrs. E. and N. Geddes played a duet,
Mr. Baker gave a Scotch song, Mias Bessie Harrison
sang “Eobin Adair ” and a selection from “ Maritana,”
Miss Clara Hamilton sang “ Caller Herrin’,” “ The
! Three Fishers," and "The Murmurs of the Shell, ex-
cellently, and Mr. Herman violinod “The Blue Bells of
Scotland.” Miss Fosnll gate three songs, and was
encored; and Mr. H. E. Woods sang two numbers.
Mr. and Mrs. Brewer, and Mr. M'Mabon, also coni ri-
bnted their services to the pleasure of the evening and
the cause of charity.
** * *
“The Agioscope” with tha “Life of Christ
opened at the Victoria Hall. Castlereagh-street, under
the management of Mr. D’Arcy Bead; and. feeling an
interest in the subject, we looked in. The hall we
found in capital order, having recently been completely
renovated. There was some very pretty singing behind
the stage, but the actors struck us as being too flsshly
one of the Eoman soldiers being the positive present-
ment of Larry Foley, while Judas Iscariot (how are you
Jude, old chap !) looked as it he hadn’t shaved or cut
his hair since he went out in the paddock, while the
kids were at Sunday-school, and hunt himself. Ihe
panorama is well painted, but the expression on the
countenance of J. C. is by no means what we have
dreamed of, and the halo is strongly suggestive of a
pound and a quarter of best Wollongong done up in
semi-circular pat. The show has its attractions un-
doubtedly, though wo shall not go again. But then it
must be remembered that we have not been religiously
brought up. A great additional draw would bo to have
Pastor Allen on the stage, pointing out the characters
with a wand. Crowded houses would be the result oi
this star engagement.
* * *
We don’t think the “ Agioscope ” half so much
fun as the “Ghost" was. Besides, it they wanted to
do the Passion Play, why couldn’t they cast it with the
“ Beauty and the Beast ” lot, and let EuiUtifoozlo play
Pontius Pilate ? Then the illusions would come in so
well, and the Beast could ride id On a donkey between
the acts, and sing a comic song. Here is a verse to
start him :
Oh, my name is Balaam,
And I tell you I am
A tip-top equestrian prophet;
And when, with a stick.
My old Neddy I lick,
Ho Kicks up, and I tumble off it.
There are millions in this song, if it’s only done properly.
This is the style of thing that “takes" now —more
especially if accompanied with a fog-horn and a trom-
bone. [N.B.: for Charges respecting future dramatic
hints, apply to the business manager.]
Mr. John Wilson’S Circiis, now lodated Ifi ike
Hay market Reserve, is an exhibition which can fairly lay
claim to be one of the completest—if not the completest
—hippie enterprises which has ever visited the colonies.
Not only does his stud of Arabian horses comprise some
of the most magnificent animals that have been seen in
Sydney, but the company of performers is singularly
unique in ejrery detail—each member possessing a dis-
tinct individuality, and eaoU one Being an artist of the
highest order, Prince Adolphe’s performance On the
horizontal bars is simply marvellous, the pj.ecu.ion and
and gracefulness with which he executes his various
teats constituting his act one of quite a phenomenal
nature. Mr. John Cooke is a daring bareback rider, of
the Robinson school, and his efforts are nightly greeted
with tumultuous applause. La Petite Adelo’s feats are,
in one so young, astonishing; and the clowns are all
clever contortionists and acrobats, in addition to being
jesters of a decidedly original order. The Girard-husi-
ness of a couple of thijiii, Messrs: MqZoij
is quite perfect, ana they may lay claim to being moc one
whit behind their prototypes in agility. Miss Victoria
Cooke’s bareback riding displays the grace, suppleness,
and activity of a most flnisned school. She goes through
her different acts with a “ cleanness" it is refreshing to
contemplate, and many portions of her performance
show novelty that is really charming. Mr. Max
Schumann appears to great advantage as ring-master,
and wo Have never .seen a horse more thoroughly under
control than the beaiitifdl Arab colt, which performs
nightly. One of the greatest attractions is the Lion
King, Mr. Djerling’s intrepidity in putting those
fierce boasts through their performances speaks for his
iron nerve. He has the lions thoroughly subjugated,
and puts them through their facings with an appearance
of groat nonchalance. The tent is comfortably fitted
and admirably ventilated, and the ushers are remark-
able for their courtesy and civility. We are glad to see
that Mr. Wilson’s enterprise in bringing such a grand
show to Sydney is meeting with a golden reward, and
we cannot do better for such of our readers as have not
paid the eifeus a visit, than recommend them to travel
down to the Haymarket Reserve without delay. There,
Jamesl , . .
* * -S- *
Tk&v mastered tip Well for Pepper in Eock-
haitipuon. It is generally agreed that the show is not
to be sneezed at.
** * *
The Wollongong Argus describes the re-
markable performanees of a Mr. Henri Ha vies bn the
piaho. It tellS us that he plays various tunes with his
nose and chin alone,, “and the manner in which he
plays the Australian Waltz With his nose on the piano,
the potes of.which are fcovfered with a blanket, is
wonderfrij. Everyoxie sqohied to bo astonished at these
WoMerftil at<i>li]Jula(tons. A’ * hese which ?
** * *
Jimmy South has been playing a season of
“ Pirates” and “Nemesis" in Newcastle, to good busi-
ness. Me intended going to Brisbane, but we suspect
Dewhurst’s luck has caused him to draw back a bit and
ponder. John finished there on the 29th, and had a
good house for his benefit. Sir Arthur Kennedy being
present; but the season, whatever.it may have been
artistically, has boon A uebihiiary fasti 1 of uhe ihdst pro-
nofinded description. A “ pUrSe of sovereigns -13 of
them in it—was presented to the hcncfiqiare, on behalf
of the company, by Mr. Hesford. Mr. Dewhnr.it, in
reply, made a speech, the bitterness of which gave great
oifenco to the “ upper crust.” He said that the better
classes had given their patronage to the circus, while
the lower classes (applause from tho pit) had proved
themselves to bo lovers of the Shakespearian drama.
• • •
Duncan M'Callum’s Quintette Club made a big
success in Brisbane, Cora Miller’s singing and good
looks causing quite a sensation from the start. Duncan
is a capital general, and he worked the oracle, before
tho club arrived, amongst the amateur virtuosos a rid
mit”i cal enthusiasts geliehiliy, to somß pilrposo. The
Company is now travelling the Cortntty. doing rt ce qde
Von dit, splendid business.-The Lynches are now at
the Town Hall. They have struck a ventnlotjuist,
a lion comique, and a French poodle who takes a hand
at all fours and does sums in simple multiplication.
They should do well. We have heard tho bells so often,
that now we yearn to see the dog.
** * *
Tho Canterbury Times (N. Z.) baa come to
grief through reprinting our pars, without acknowledge-
ment We have a playful way sometimes of alluding
to Miss M. A. Melville as “Mrs. Jarley,” partly
because she so thoroughly identified herself with the
character, and partly because we dearly love her. Vv ell,
in giving the names of the ladies of the Gaiety com-
pany, the C. T. has them as follows“ Mrs. Kate
Adere, the Misses Ada Adere, Marion Melrose. Theresa
Horan. ’Genie Horan, Maggie Forde, LeDy Howarth,
and Mrs. Jarley (!)’’ The pitcher has been once too
often to the well. Nemesis ! Whoop!
** * *
Dr. Simms has dono well in Newcastle, at the
Protestant Hall. His lectures greatly amused the
people, and when he gave them one on the nose they
were (as it was quite natural they should be) staggered.
It is said that no casual visitor was ever so much mixed
up with the “ heads of families” iu the coally city as
has been our American friend. He has’nt told us where
he is going next, so we expect it is to heaven. In his
modesty the doctor wouldn’t like to say he was oil
there.
** * *
Miss Pomeroy’s husband is the editor of a spicy
weekly paper in Denver (U.S.), and he does not, it would
seem, take much interest in theatricals. We think he
is wrong. We know that if we were so newly con-
nected with the stage, we should find it bard to settle
down on a paper in Denver. We should require some-
thing more oxciting. A cook-shop in Murruruudi, or
dramatical cricket to a penny contemporary. Miss
Pomeroy rarely, if over, mentions the existence) of Air.
Pomeroy, yet wo wouldn’t mind betting that in the
Denver Denukciaiok are to bo found whole yards of
reprint from the New Zealand dailies —and inthecei tre
of it all a second-hand block of the fair Louise, wii h a
fancy jobbing type border, and underneath it the log' nd
—'M'ss Louise Pomeroy—Denver’s own Tragediei ne,
now performing with tumultnaus sue ess in Sydiey*
New Zealand; Adelaide, W. Australia to follow.
TO MAGGIE MOORE.
Will yon tell ua, little friend.
Just the truth;
To make up, how you intend.
Now as Ruth ?
Will yon take a plunge so bold —
Hide those locks of gleaming' gold ?
And, though feeling dire despair.
Will yon dye that skin so fair ?
Pat a lot of wrinkles, too.
Round those melting eyes of bine ?
Hide that smile which knocks the pit 1
Change that voice, whish, on the ear,
Falls so musically clear?
Say—Oh, can you make up old —
Can you evah ?
In three words your answer’s told—
Oh, no—nevah I
* * * *
Professor Miller has been presented with a gold
medal by his pupils at the Sydney gymnasium. His
shows lately at the School of Arts were not a great
monetary triumph, so we hope the country tour he is
about to take Will prove the means of bringing grist to
the Miller.
* * * *
(Hilbert and Sullivan's new piece is to be a
musical melo-drama called “The Seven Clerks,” tind
the next item of absorbing interest that we garner in
is that Lotti Wilmot has at last received a favourable
notice from a susceptible editor of a Hokltlki rag. He
apparently thinks a Lotti-Lotti.
* * *
Jimmy Ct’Brlen died his shovel prior to leaving
Auckland—liabilities. assets—something. He
says he canght it from Lingard. 5-vons’ Tourists are a
frost generally, barring one lady performer ; and her
husband travels with her as her agent. ThC buy 9 don t
care about busnacking round.
* * * *
Things are lively in the country. The Italian
Marionettes ar9doing "Ned Kelly” at Adelong; but,
as the loCnl fly-trap remarks, “ the dialogue was con-
ducted In Italian, Which was rather perplexing to the
majority of the addiishcc" TherS is a snake-charmer in
with this show, and Whefl he in hot making a turban of
a boa constrictor, we suppose hd plays first roober......
By the Cooma Express wo see that Simmons ana
Howard’s crowd were at latest dates playing * Queen 3
Evidence” there, under the patronage of the Mayor,
aldermen, and, we suppose, the gifted editor of the
paper .At Mndgee, our old friend, the Giraffe, speaks
vdry highly of Clara Stephenson’s party, but as he talks
abdiit “ rtUiany” we hope that his critical powers are in
advance 01 ilifi Spelling.
* # * #
Kennedy and M‘Carthy’a “Hupp* fours’’
Troupe dropped in for a bad time of it in (Jueaubeyan
Kennedy and Mrs. K. being arrested on a charge of
stealing a lot of things out of their landlady a bedroom.
The prosecutor is a Mrs. Land, of the Victoria Hotel,
and the missing articles—some black silk and feathers,
And other articles of ladies’ fair
To thane them beautiful or keep them neat—
were, it is alleged,ToiiM ih possession of the suspected
parties. We do not doubt ail thb, will turn out to he a
mistake. We don’t like to see anyotio HI Who
is not a heavy tragedian or an Evening Lire port.
Baker and Barren’s new play, “Up Salt Creek,”
by Robert Morris, a N.Y. journalist, is, by all accounts,
worse rot than “Liza Ecoles” We are not surprised
thdtthrsh,«>e'»er artists should have bought a bad play,
instead of a gtfofl Ofld, because the chances are, from
their experience of the jWblla of various parts of the
world, they have come to the coflcltfs on that anything
with jingles and dances in it, with afl nb-
duction in it, and a murder or two, is bound to JgO down.
The New York Clipper says“ Kindly, but lirrnly, we
have refused to go over to the Windsor to see Up
Salt Creek,’ by Robert Morris. For months the author
has been meeker than Moses in the Telegram, and he
shall have his reward. We decline to part the Bowery
bulrushes and spank his dramatic baby. Before we begin
to write like this we shall wait until there is a new
breed Bf jurymen.
# * * *
We see that Ada Ward has Sflperaeded Miss
Myra Kemble in the duplex rdle of Bel Uorimef and
Eilnice in the » New Bab.” at the Royal What We
musingly inejuire'. is the meaning of * this thnsnessif
“ Botsyi” with Marshall, is it gfoat success at the
Princess’s, and the place has been superbly re-decorated
-Gordon’s act drop being a dream of loveW wlours
Garry Nelson, under her now name of Mfs. M F .“, ye P’
' il to play an engagement at the Bijou m
Garnet Walch’s new piece. Madame Favart has not
flroved much of a hit. All the theatres have done
splendidly duriflg the races.
* # # #
■- The American Seranadera took #0a.- at Wollon-
gong Victoria Theatre, Brisbane, playing to very
poor houses. Courier advises, and very wisely, a spgll
for a week ior so. Palmer doesn t see it At a Ger-
man concert in Brisbane, the other night, a lady was
singing a song, when the “ usual baby began to squall.
The mother was heard to remark Hush, baby, thm is
d sold) hot a che'rusj’ . and the baby subsided. Wise
mother and knowing dhild.i...Palmer is playing at the
Vic. Brisbane, “Party by the Waffle of Johnson.
Company very forgetful in their parts. Poof bosses.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
W H. Thompson ia at Launcsston playing (aa
ho says) to crowded houses. Sum star-asuite of
furniture Annie Mayor has made a hit ns
rtnholia (to Mr. Harkens s Hamlet) In Adelaide......A
dodlbitrn correspondent says Things have
rather dull here. Fanny Rogers and Agwsvope com*
IS ssrz ja
°i. b I«fc L “S S5X* ** I
*A'£!sz
alleged the Palmers wore engaged for “ general act-
After much contradictory evidence a nonsuit
entered Joe lteynor leaves the T.K. company
Chim^orazo^ er ?Mis^ Anni^M^y^ engaged— to the
way and W. Hoskins will become joint managers of a
Sydney theatre, shortly.
T \_,, 'rhere’s no longer merit inyouth vnianes
Santlev the singer, has promised T5OOO to a Roman
Catholic seminary at Hammersmith, London Charley s
Uitioutbemi j Emmet is on the square
aglin. At r iast advices’he'was Chicago.
drawing immonne houses The Emihe Melville Co.
are fetching big audiences in “PaHemie at the Bmh-
street ’Frisco; the Opera is much liked.. ....uaveriy s
Mastodons are now on the road in A.menca...... Billy
Sweetman ifnow travelling in the States with the
Paimcross Minstrels Aa American Negro Minstrel,
OairncrohS a . o{ tllo business, named Harry
L^ha n iately U dw d at Philadolphia.aud his remains when
iinried were attired in bhick suit, and laid in a white
Uttiu-UuecJ, black cloth covered, casket, with silver
tassels and silver plates, Leha at one time was » com-
positor Charley Reed, who was in Sydney with the
Froliqnes, was sentenced to a veal’s for
refusing to pay alimony to his Wife, but waa
afterwards realised under a writ Cft kibe a 5.,......
Haverly’s Beal Black Brigade numbers t)0 people,
of whom 20 are “end-nun,” ‘-’0 instrumeutlists,
male vocalists, and interlocutors, and 20 female Cooris-
ters. These last, dressed in dark blue dresses, w ith r*d-
and-orange handkerchiefs and caps, are placed at to®
back of the stage. The orchestra consists of five vio ins,
one double baas, one oboe, one flute, two cornets, one
trombone, eight bones, eight tamborines, two drums,
and two jawbones C. J. Campbell- who will be re-
membered as tenor of the Soldene Troupe, is now %
member of Hess’s “ Oliffftte” Company in America
Troubadours paid Bronson Howard £lOOO for their new
piece “'An Amateur Benefit,” with which they start eel
on their annual tour By the last mail from the Cape,
Mr. J. C. Rainer received letters from Mr. H. Stanley,
his representative there. His dioramas of the American
and Kusso-Turklsb wars have done excellent business,
considering the general state of affairs. His T 1
the Diamond-fields, although made iu the midst oith »
rainy season, was. he reports, very satisractoTy. Dur-
ing the six months he has travelled in South Arnea'-
with the exhibition the receipts have averaged over"
£BOO per month —an amount far in excess of any othoir
entertainment that has been shown in that part of tho
world Charles Lascelles is in Natal at tho head of
an opera-boufle company giving selections from tho
“ Pirates of Penzance,” &c At Capetown, Captain
Roebuck’s company, of which Rosa Towers is
donna, are playing the "Tambour Major .........
Amongst the eccentricities of the King of Havanas
is that of having a private theatre, where he
is sole spectator of the company's performances-
An actress who was performing recently seems
to have displeased his Majesty, who ‘brew an
empty bottle at her. It struck her on the head and
nearly killed her The Hanton-Lees, supported
by an English stock compaay, have been well re reive a
in New York Edwin Booth and Laurence Barrets
were to commence their ensageffleat hi New York «r*
Oct, 3rd, opening in “Richelieu” William Horae®
and Alice Lingard, and a combination, opened the new
People’s Theatre, St. Louis, on Sept. 10. La Tenta-
tion” was the attraction selected for the occasion......
When the last mail left. Rose Osborne wasabontto
appear at the Baldwin. Frisco D’Oyley Cart* ks
purchased the right of representation in America of »he>
drama "Youth,” Opera chorus singers are Beared
in 'Frisco owing to the numerous Gardens now open
there’. Manager Thomas Macguire of the Baldwin, was
compelled to annul his contract not long ago with the
Bianchi Itallaff ft*H Co, owing to this cause...—Nil-
son’s contract with the American manager Abbawise.
certainty this time. It fc tot the season of I**B%
commencing in OctoborHekt,..... An Hiborman Mmst
show is travelling is the United States, The first I®
consists of a first-part modelled after that of Negro
Minstrels, in which minstrel gatrs are told by end-men
dressed as Irish footmen Howartll • Hibemicon,
which was iu Australia a few years ago, with new scenes
and company, is on the road in the
Hague's Minstrel Co., from St. JiuncsHan.LireriKio,
have appeared at the Arch-street Theatre, Philadeptoia,
with much success. Their business is entirely new to
America, and their performance, musically, superior to
nny minstrel entertainments ever »renthere. Unix
Emerson has retired from Haveriy s and
is now managing the Standard Theatffiy ¥ nsc(7
World" at Niblo’s New York, is drawing large crowds..—
Kate Foley is now travelling in the Stale# With a "cm
on the Bristol” Co Jennie Le e and her company
opened in “Jo” at the National, Washington, Sept-
-12 Baker and Farr on have discarded ‘UpSnIP
Creek." their last new play There are fully nflseo
“ Humpy-Dumpty” combiflutions in
lotta Patti, at latest, was at Hamburg, with her husband
M. De Munck, the 'cello player ‘ Tambour Major
has been presented at the Winter Gardens, Frisco. Big
success.. —..Gilbert and Frederick Clay Iwojnght out
at the Opera Comique, on Oct. 8, an origJJM oT’era
d acts,” called " Princess Toto. .... .Mr- D W'T Carlo
has removed "Fatkmoe,” now inThe highestitideofito
success, to hi# hewTheatre-the Savoy. At Old L*Jivy,
“Youth” is running to enormous business **’
Leeds Henry Irving s Crowd is snavelhug £3OO a nigm-
M tho Crystal Palace, Emily **dene has been appear-
ing iu “ Carmen," and Modjeskrt i» ‘ Frou Frou ; and
“Les Cloches de Corneville” m ffl Ms tth yeara* the
Globe Paul Merritt’s new piece is cawed Msmiwi,
or Beggar your Neighbour.” In it thOfa is a
flace, '■>. prize-fight, a suicide, an arrest, two murders, ai
fight With a real lion, the interior of a cirtme, amf a.
church on life. Now Bland ! A new London theatre*
is to be opened at Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London, sli wt ly-
Among the special features of the enterprise will I b«J »»
“abolition of fees, the loan (free) of opera glasses awl
the supply of light refreshments without extra charge.
It this programme is carried out, the theatre will cer-
tainly merit its name, “The Novelty I” This is tho
khid y of theatre that Would go down
especially if the management provided anri
onions” in the entr’actes. That would go down too-...-
gir Julius Benedict has agreed to write some meiriflntal
music for Shakespeare’s “Borneo and whicto
Mr. Irting proposes to revive at the Lyceum The .
in the course of his next season Aurio l * c^ e
Prated French clown, died recently, aged 73. i uis wa»
one of Anriol’s unique feats A ladder was placed m
the centre of the ring ; mounting this, Aunol stood on
hil head, and with a touch of his hand one pole fell and
the rungs tumbled from their places. Then, as a tray
with a bottle of Bordeaux and a outclass
him the gymnast drew the cork, filled out a glass ot
wine and gravely drank the health of the audience in
this ’antipedian position,.. ....Emily Soldene wasplay-
ing at the Crystal Palace, London, last September,
operabouffe—“ Genevieve and Madame Angot. ......
It is said that “All on account of Eliza, m
Taylor,” is for the first two bars identical with Men-
delssohn’s “ How lovely are the messengers. What a
throw in for Mendelsaohnn! “ Audran, the now
famous French composer, is described as being » »bort>
stout man, with small pokey eyes, a turn-up nose, fiery
red hair, a hare-lip, and a carbuncle on his neck. He
+uust be a beauty, even if tho carbuncle is not a P crm^-
ueiit fsdornment.” Madame Nilsson rofused
offers tof Monte Carlo, and at present proposes to go
h 2 national pilgrimage to Stockholm and to fulfil her
English provincial engagements only .iJOKumii
last opera, "The Duke of Alba,” has recently been re-
imbHshed at Milan The Italian papers report, that
Rubinstein will bring out a new opera at Her Majesty’s
Theatre London next season (?). Verdi has Deon
qtiked to write a hymn for tho closing of the Milan Ex-
hibition “Les Mousquetaries an Convent has been
prohibited in Vienna, on tho ground that it offensive
to religion There is some prospect thatthobtratc-
gists, an American variety company, something after tho
style of Salabury’s Troubadours make a trip to
Tendon under the management of Mr. llowara raui
.< Baffled,” an American drama was produced
turned to America per s.s. Germania. He has taken
SSS* t %.
England—like the Major-General in the ’ Pirates is
teeming with a lot o.’ nuns. Mr. George R. Sims has
uroduced at the Loudon Princess’s, a play called Tbo
Lights of London,” though whether it will bo a long
liver we can’t say, since we have not come across a
notice of it. Mr. Sims puts a poem in his ad., of which
here is a stanza ;
With faces worn and weary
That told of sorrow’s load,
Quo day a man and woman
Crept down a country road.
They sought their native village.
Heartbroken from the fray ;
Yet shining still behind them
The Lights of London lay.
O cruel lamps of London, if tears your lights could
Your victims eyes would weep them, O Lights of London
We sincerely hope his piece is better than this bit of
his poetry.
7
THE BULLETIN.
November 12,1881.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The telephone facilitates public business. Under-
secretary : “ Request Mr. to furnish me with
papers in connection with Mud (?) Creek affair.” Mes-
senger : “Ho is not in his office, sir." U. S : ‘‘Then
toll Mr. I. want him.” M.: “He i» out, too,
sir.” U S.; Then ask Mr. Hayes at the “(Exchange'*
to connect with the billiard room.”
* * *
S. Teacher: “ Yes, my dear, it was certainly
a great miracle ; hut there can be no donbt that the
multitude wire fed with only five barley loaves ?.nd
three small Ashes ” Ethel: “Do you think it was ns
Pii- a crowd as when we went to see the Princes."
S 3 T • “Oh, yes, dear, quite." Ethel: “And were
they really and truly all tilled." S. S. T.: “ Ethel, you
must not chatter so."
* * *
A ■woman dropped dead in lEhissex-street, last
wetk. and a child was knocked down nnd cashed by a
missing cart. Next, day, the Mousing Mixture feel-
ingly all ml -d to those events under the heading of
“ AiHiiMinents.” As a joke, this is “ extremely funny
and comical,” of curse; but, some of these days, a
victim’s hi other will go for the morning joker’s head
with nn axe. and then. peace will once more settle on
this laud.
The Printing Times said, some months ago,
f-.but the Qceanb*tan Gam was entirely sat up by the
•Uu daughters of journalistic John, and since that
• bout 250 pressmen of Sydney have been anxiously
Hooding out for Mr. Gale's funeral announcement. Up
to this wo own lo have expen.
mewl some interest in the
Cab CO as, Mauy, devouring that
sheet with free tied eagerness
weekly. and putting it under
our pillow afterwards. Now,
however, the dream of onr lives
vi to go up and edit the Qtjean-
A«s. Come now, John,
vun'Vwd come to terms? Wo
■ lon’t want much salary, and
'vhat we do get wo will take out
in old type and back numi ers
containing your electioneering
addresses upon those occasions
in which you wore “received
with respectful silence. You Ji
find us sober, neat in our attire,
and unrivalled ft writing a par.
about tho traveling dentist or
sparkling local about the retir-
ing bellman. Give us a show,
now, and we are on hand im-
mediately, AH we stipulate, is
one thing. That is, that we
have our plank on tressels and
inverted gif-case set np in the
composing room. Agree to
that, John, and from hence-
forth your paper will hum like
a motal top on a willow cheese-
plata.
* * *
Statistics —ln the Cooma
Police district there are five
J.P.’s to every pol cemm, and m
Sydno' there are ten ministers of
the gospel to every male Chris-
tian. For confirmation of tho
latter statement, a-'p’y to I. J.
Josephaon, at the Benevouut
Asylum.
* * *
Will Pastor Alien or Dr.
Be? kindly stand up and answer
tho followin'? queries:— If
Pharoah really was drowned in
the Bed Sea. how is it be has
fust turned up safe and sound at.
Thebes ? Was an inquest held
on his remains, and. if so, who
was the coroner ? YVero anv of
the usual official remedies (such
as sitting on the
person*d head, Eoarchiiig his
pockets. &3.) used when ILe
“demnition dead b dy ” was
hauled up ; and, if to, Bow
much ? Pharoah was only a
“ nigger,“ of course, but wo
won’t see him wronged for all
that.
* * *
A junior member of tho
N.S.K.C. got his heart in his
boots tho other night, and it
happened thusly : —During the
mad excitement of a nocturnal
training spurt, he walked about
three mil©.! out ot town along
tho darkest track imaginable,
when suddenly ho thought he
heard tho angels sing. Being
the fortunate owner of a valu-
able gold watch, the Junior
member at once started for
homo at the fastest time on
record. To his intense horn r,
however, he toon found (ho
angels were trooping after him
at lightning speed, and eve n-
raging each other on with
shouts of “Collar him. Bill,”
“ Don’t let him head you,’’ “ Go
it. Shirty,” “ He’ll bavo to drop
it soon,” Ac, all of wh'cb clearly
proved the angels were fully
bent on having Hie 1 oatist’s
goods, and perhaps his life.
After doing the three miles hack in about 3 second*,
the junior got homo safe, and foil down exhausted aud
almost dead with fear. Perhaps he didn’t swear when
be found ont n?xt clay that the pursuing angels wore
merely a few youngsters amusing themselves with a
foot race.
* # «
A winegrower’s growl is bound to be a wbine.
* * #
A Sydney ynmsr man took his girl to see
“ Struck Oil ” lust Wtdnefday night, and, relying in
her assurance thit lie could get back to town by the
boat, saw her homo fo Mort’s Dock. After a tender
bit oi' leave-taking by the garden gate (in which her
•dmany bonnet suffered considerably), he gave her a
t ■■ i-lug squeeze, and a ki-s as lend as the oiA‘ o’clock
ri *et oil to catch the boat. There it was, lying ,
quietly t the wharf, anil he chuckled to think what a
■ i. How he was with the girls, and of the handy
ii mr it was to bo able to get back that late. So he j
-1 On hoard, and, it Iming rather chillv, went and j
tat dona near the engine, lie dezed off in a few
moments, when he was aroused by a hand being laid
forcibly on his collar, and a rough voice commanding
him in very forcible terms to “clear off out of that."
lie then began to perceive that Fate had .libbed on the
nice little arrangement, and that the boat wouldn't re-
turn until the rest day. As he shivered and rose to go,
the man who had aroused him said: “It there was a
bobby about I'd give yer in charge. I know yer game:
coming after my lamps!" He staggered on to the
wharf and looked np the street. All dark. Arresting
his footsteps before the first public-house, ho knocked
for admission. No answer. He banged again, and
waited. Then he thought a window was op< ued from
above, and. on looking up, bis face encountered the
contents oi a water-jug coming down. At tho next
place the courtesy of the inmates took the form of
flour, and a well-directed brick welcomed him at the
third. As a last resource, he returned to the honse of
his adored one, and gently tapped, A blind was pulled
I aside, and a loud shriek followed. Then hasty footsteps
[ were heard in the passage, the street door was opened,
I and, in another moment, her father had laid violent
hands on him, while the daughter yelled “robbers”! and
"murder!" continuously. “I’m not a robber,” he cried,
with a beseeching expression upon his flourey face.
“An, that voice,” shecrisd, “why it’s Robert.” 11 You
villain," yelled the father, kicking him off the veran-
dah, while 2518 dog* commenced running out and bark-
ing, “ bow dare you come here iu tho dead of tbe night
giving my house a bad name!” And, with a vigorous
shove, ho sent the unfortunate young man rolling in tbe
gutter It was four o’clock as a faded, hat-
less, shivering form knocked at the door of a lodging-
house in Darlinghnrst, and it was half-past four ere
someone came down to answer it. And thou, rs be
passed up to his room end curled into bel, sleep was
banished from his eyelids by tho agonizing thought
that he had no money with which to buy a n»w hat, and
that ho would have to bo dependent on his landlady’s
daughter (whom he had only recently snubbed) for put-’
ting half a foot of light twcod intd tho back of hia tCm
coat.
Alfred’s luck as a novelist seems to be out just
now. His thrilling story, “Meliora to the Rescue,"
which appeared in the T, and G., seems to have been
stolon from him’some years before and printed holus-
bolus in the Christian World without acknowledg-
ment. This comes, you see, of being famous. It was
only a little while ago (as we pointed out at the time)
that the Family Herald wronged him outrageously.
Here Alf. went to the trouble of writing a thrilling
novel, bristling with murder, suicide, and elopement,
called “The Forger’s Fate," and Just as the Sydney
people, in their admiration of his genius, were about to
present bim with the insignia of the most noble Order
of Balaam, done in tripe, and set In tin-tag, lo and
behold, It is discovered that some miscreant had tapped
the Bonnettian brain some ton years before, and given
all “ The Forger’s Fate" under tho title of “Tracked
at Last," in the popular periodical we have alluded to.
This wholesale filching of Alf.’s stories Is In the last
degree reprehensible. Wo believe that agents are paid
to watch him, and whenever he sits down to jerk off a
romance, copy it down from over his shoulder, and
cable it to London. Of course, Alfred has enemies who
stab him in the dark, and hint the boot is on the other
log ; but we repel such insinuations with the scorn
they deserve. Of the originality of Alf , as an author,
there can be no doubt whatever.
• * *
Softly sighed the breeze, and faintly came the
sound of Aurora’s sonorous steed*, as a certain pro-
minent patriot reached his front door on Tuesday
morn, ana endeavoured to turn the lock with the bntt
end of a healthy saveloy. From the balcony above
gazed his spouse adored, and in a trembling voice
inquired, “Is that you, J ?” Stepping backwards
to grasp the situation, the exhausted patriot sat
abruptly down o« a prize camslia bed, and replied in
indignant tones, "Or conrsh i»h Is—dam nish oomani
dnzzen know’er own husban’ when sh’ seezim." Mutual
explanations followed, and when the statesman’s clothes,
were repaired, and all the gravel removed from the
back of his heyl, ho scrambled into bed, and Informed
the “adored” that “th* finashil state ov couimery was
shimply most magnlliiehish.”
William-street, Woolloomooloo. Pianoforte and
violin, 6 till 8a m. Neighbours anxiously looking for-
ward to the Slst, when (vide astronomer Bennett) all
men will die, and heaven and earth fri«zle up like *
biirht pancakf.
* * *
“ Dosli anypody vant to puy a vatch 100 guinea
one about last now, which will be sold cheap—the owner
having no farther use for it. Would make a capital tes-
timonial —or " small token of that esteem.” &o.
* * *
The Macleay correspondent of the Wanning
Eiver Times reports that at a meeting of Free Selec-
tors, held at Kempsey, a Mr. E. L. Rudder proposed
“ That the proprietor of the Sydney Daily Teleohapi**
as an exponent of sound political tiewg on theLtnd
rl i, • -i . it li T k
Question, tind Aij Meptmffen*
ddvofikte of tibolitlon of Interbeh
be also invited to the banquet.”
Now, this is the perfect refine-
ment of cruelty. What harm
did the poor D.T. ever do Mr.
Rudder that he should crack his
joke at them In this manner ?
If now, at the meeting of the
natives of the Solomon Islands,
the same resolution had been
carried, we could have perfectly
understood it. We would have
even sympathised with the oh-
ject, so far as to furnish salt
and ketchup to the committee.
* # #
The Eov. Mr. Ewing la
writing “Nights with tha
Modern Poets " in the iKVkitkLt
Alto US, and though ho has al-
ready discussed the merits of
Beattie and Cowpor, ho has said
nothing as yet about Lewis
Scott, If selections from the
works of Lewis, Phil. M'Car;
roll, and Prospect-Hall-Add
don’t appear in Mr. E*?lng } *
new paper, wo shall put it dowfl
to what H’lsiaeli calls—“ The
rampant jealousy of con tempo,
raueons authors.” We wouldn’t
negleet Lewis like this, any-
how. Let him only write a
book. We’ll review It I
* * *
During tne rSchnt tisit of
the Carl Rosa Troupe to Bin#!
ston, Ireland, a careful “mem-
ber of ihe constabulary foorce”
happened to be " nosing ”
around the station, and his
eagle oje at once detected
Rosa's rapiers, daggers, wigs,
tights, and other suspicious
looking “ props” awaiting cart-
age. Unluckily for the “opera
buffers,” there happened to be a
warrant out at the time for the
sedit ous Mr. O'Donovan Rossa.
The v gilant official immedi-
ately "smelt a mouse”) the
whole of Rosa’s kit was safely
lodged in the Kingston gaol,
and ticket ted “suspected Fenian
weapons,” and next day that
gallant officer got—the "bullet.”
If the case happened here, the
Rosa ga,ng wonld be fined 10s. a
head, and the ” trap” promoted.
Ta-rau-ta-rah!
• » •
On this day (Thursday,
10th). 1830, the first sheep that
ever let out a Baa! in our south,
orn seas was lauded at Port
Phillip safe and sound. To-
day our floeev friends are
totalled up at 32,309,547. That
Port Phillip rollioker did his
duty well, and deserves aottviu .
tf » •
The Lithgow Mercury
accuses the Australian Sports-
man of stealing four of its pars.
And yet thi* was tha jrsper
whose dramatic critic wroto
from the stage-box, and whoso
success was so assured before it
appeared, that the manager
used to do all hi* outside busi-
ness in a hansom, and was never
seen without an eighteen-penny
cigar in his mouth. Aud now,
how are the mighty fallen •
The first time we hear of ita
existence for months, it is
charged with pirating tne pars.
©f the Lithgow Target ! Well, when we want to gets
rich, we’ll start a comic paper, too. But not till after
we have tried to secure a competence by ‘bus-driving.
* # #
He was a giddy Parramatta new chum, and
there wasn’t a perambulator propeller in ihe whole of
Cumberland to whom he hadn’t, at one time or another,
made advances. Well, as one by one they dropped to
him as a Lothario, and returned to their quondam loves,
the constable and the milkman, the new arrival’s life
grew dreary ; and he was just about to cut the district
when he received a note, written in what appeared to
he a female hand, requesting him to meet ihe writer
next afternoon at the railway-station. He was there to
the minute, r .-splendent with well greased whiskers and
a turned paper collar. He waited ; hut she came not.
Five o’clock struck, and still he was there. As ho was
leaving, at length, in disgust, a •mall boy aoooeted him.
and said, '‘Are you Ronaldo de Onrfen ?” "I aia Jv
proudly exclaimed the Lothario. “ This is fpr yoiß
then,” said the youth, handing him a largo envelope,
the superscription of which was in the same baud*.
LA-DI-DAH.
NEW VERSION.
Inscribed to His Excellency.
When the Royal hoys were hr re,
La-di-dah !
Lord Augustus said, “*Tis clear,
La-di-dah !
We mupfc show the lads the way
We can act a little pi ay—
Something very distingud,
La-di-dah !’’
So. Georgo Gordon ho was got,
La-di-Uah !
To paint scenery a lot.
La-di-dah !
And his little bill, behold,
Came to ninety pounds in gold.
Which bold Gordon had to hold,
La-di-dah !
Well, they paid the little bill,
La-di dah I
From out the public till,
Ls-di dah !
The joke, oh, it immense is.
The coin— mind your startled senses !
Came from “ Unfoeseen Expenses,”
La-di-dah 1
MELBOURNE !
WOOL BROKER : “GOOD MORNING Mr. Shlopenshleizer; I’m afraid we’ll require your attendance
at our sales again. None of our foreign buyers have arrived.”
Mr. S.: “All thright, mine frieund, all thright. Put I moost have de money doun on de nails;
doun on do nails.”
"HUSH MONEY”
THE YELLOW AGONY.
In vain doth our Muse curl her nostrils and sneeze,
Onr obstinate Pegasus snuffle and wheeze.
With grip as a! iron the bridle we seize,
And gallop hila straight at the subjoot-^Chinese.
The peaceful Mongolian grows inters and peas.
And spinach, and lettuce, and prime cabbagees;
He seldom gets drunk, never has the D T.’s,
But he smells worse than Captain Mayne Reid’s Chero-
kees.
In hundreds and thousands they land on our quays
(Their persons asylums for vermin and fleas),
Tbe goblet of sorrow we’ve drained to the lees j
Say, what shall we do with these Heathen Chinese ?
Like Sinbad the Sailor’s Old Man of 1 ho Seas,
These alinon-eved, amber-hued, apish Chinese
Bestride ns, on I agony of agouees!
(Bad metre? well, certainly, rather a squo.ze).
Commissioner sat and have pocketed fees.
And gobbled huge slices of Government cheese,
The hobbies have bustled as busy as bPoa
Exploring the haunts of the Heathen GhinesS.
In intervals sober, 'twlxt orgies and sprees.
Reporters have written our marrow lo freeze,
Accounts which induce us onr Q’s and our P’s
To mind when we wander among the Chinese.
But their perfame still floats upon zephyr and breeze;
We’ve vented our an gee in impotent D s ;
We’ve nearly lost hope, which in Latin is epos •
Shall wo ever get clear of these awful Chinese ?
Bet’s hope that Smith's prrj .'ct the Synod ivill seliS?;
And the Rubric itself be reformed by degrees,
A prayer might be added with infinite ease.
Embraced and embodied in stanzas like these:
“ From hatred and malice,” deliver ns, please,
“ From battle and murder,” from death and disease •
“ From perils by land, and from perils by seas; ’
“ From heresy schism," and—Heathen Chinese i
8
November 12, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


writing as the letter. He clutched it eagerly, and tore
it, open with feverish haste. It was a large blue sheet
df foolscap, headed with a coat of urns, and containing
a printed invitation for him to attend Judfe Dowling a
reception at the top of King-street, and enter upon a
logical controversy with a mercer upon the subject of
a coat and vest and half a dozen pairs of socis.
SectiS ‘ Tile liands Office. Ist clerk (who la
seated on a ohrtir eating bananas, to fellow clerk, who
has just entered), «Wh« ! a new bat
Ton are going it ' 2nd clerk ! It ttrts sgooa cay
Anglican Synod in session, yon know." the other one
wiw it directly. The speaker had been lunching at the
Coffee Palace. # #
At Ulmarra, the other day, a prominent Sunday
Ri'hool teacher accidentally set fire to some of his
neighbour’s bananas. He then knelt down to pray the
fire out. Hardly had he mumbled about two sticks
of hh* supplication than the banana-woman looked over
the fSnCe, and dropped a brick on him. He did the rest
htln* H-a Meg With green boughs and a rake, and is now
face and the proper seed to Sot? for a brand new pair oi
eye-brows. # # *
A person signing himself " Eusticus ” appears
to h the 6 a chining
es£Ss tf=s
iii the Chronicle abonb this
loxtfnal in uncomplimentary
*ermB( we fltathd that we should
feel the effedt of hi* pot-hooks
and hangers the more tcimly
did we not recognise in him
a frequent contributor to our
dustbin. “Bastions’* now writes
to the Oakcoar Chronicle
again, and denies that he has
contributed to our dustbin, but
he wisely says nothing about
either the wastepaper-bosket or
the fireplace. As a matter of
fact, “Ensticus" is one of the
many country yokel" who rn-
orifice their masters’ billheads
on the altar of our charwoman ;
and because the drivel with
which they inundate ns never
appears in any form, they en-
deavour to vent their spleen by
getting the unsuspecting editor
of the local rag to gratuitously
advertise us through the entire
district. We have no desire to
be the means of causing the
cessation of the “thirty-five
bob *’ which “ Ensticui's mas-
ter doles out to him weekly,
and therefore wo do not ask for
his name. Suffice it to say that
Stir statement, that he has con-
ttibated to our dustbin, is true,
and the hsafest his copy has
ever been to appearing in our
columns is when lying stamped
with a Carcoar postmark, on
oar writing table. After this
little ebullition of friendly
feeling, wo relegate “ It a* tic us
b ick to his soloing and heeling,
blow a respectful kiss to Mary
■with a couple of puffs from trie
Inevitable cigar, and prepaio for
further slutighter.
* * *
The fame of our licensing
Solons has reached even Goon-
diwindi. An intending boniface
up there recently applied for
permission to run a roadsido
pub. in a spot where it was very
much wanted—the only other
hotel being -5 miles a " ay -
Two “never-tonch-it” J.P.s,
however, accidently happened to
be on hand ou the day of appli-
cation, and, of course, the pub-
lican started off with 2 to 1
against him —no takers. J>y a.
strange coincidence, however,
two anti -teetotal magistrates
also happened to ho in town,
and, tlioir friendly feelings
being well known, Messrs.
•< Dodson and Fogg imme-
diately subpoenaed the pair as
witnesses. This, of course, pre-
vented their sitting ou the
llencb, and, wo need scarcely
add, that aspiring beer-puller
went homo on bis ear at an
early date. For ways that are
dark, this is food.
» * *
Th# greater P art of the
“consultation” tickets, it ap-
pears, are purchased by women.
A Surry Hills man read this in
the Australasian the other
day and then it began to dawn
on him for the first time where
bis Sunday coa.t» tbat bad been
mysteriously stolen, had gone
to and how it was that his
.. misses ” had suddenly ox-
pressed an aversion to wearing
her jewellery. A few moments
earnest conversation with her
earnest cyuvciDawu» ; , nix a •
was also the means of his being enabled to bring once
beneath the family roottroe. the Dutch oven, the
bo* iron the baby’s coral, and two dozen electro-
plated forks and spoons. He has hopes, too, of finding
onfl whore the rocking-horse and his macintosh are, be-
fore long.
* * •
It was December, 1879 ; the birds sang their
amorous sonxs; the gentle dowers raised their lovely
bonds ■ the zephyr whispered to the listening trees, and
all nature spoke of love. Just thi.n it semis that one
Sims took up his pen aud wrote “toote Miss Cose
thoee few lines." as follow Dear Ann . I received
your kind and loving letter, and was glad U) hear from
you I was thinking you forgot all about me I was
very miserable till I got your latter, and -hen I nearly
cried to think I was so far away from yon.
TwsoW-four moons had scarcely passed, however,
when the fickle Sims felt another call to sling another
note to his soul’s delight, aud this is how Lesluug it:-
“ Queensland, April 10.1SS1. Dear Annie,-Your letter
caiuo to hand, whicli I thought; was a very saucy oao,
not that I caro a d n for you or your brother—you
can do your best and be d dto you. If you are mean
enough to keep my portraits and my ring, you can, but
lam not mean enough to keep yours. As for mine you
can lake them to all the lawyers in Sydney for all I care
for you or them I am iu Queensland, and
all your lawvers can do what they like. ITou can c fetch
me bac I '." "That lot Coss Mr. Sims just about £250
last week, and ho now asserts that Annie is a clearer girl
than erer.
A PERFORMANCE OF MEDIUM QUALITY.
When we knew that Mrs. Ada Foye would give
Spiritual manifestations in the School of Arts, we at
once determined to occupy a front seat. Anything
spiritual is to us of whole-souled and enthralling
interest, while the name of “ Ada " has always been ns
music in our ears, and suggestive of more than earthly
loveliness. So we went early. Wa do not regret
having curtailed onr tea, rushed madly for the tram,
and sat for three hours on a lop-sided chair, because
Mrs. Foye is clever. She is not lovely, though, nor yet
etherial— , , .
She is forty, fat, and fair.
With tko brightest auburn hair,
And a flenre —well, say “ chubby ” in its form ;
She is self-possessed and free,
Very quick at repartee,
And her tongue is like her tresses —rather warm.
Mrs. Foye does not deem gaudy raiment necessary when
holding her nightly receptions of inhabitants from the
other world A plain black dress, trimmed with satin
and beads, and a diamond ring, is all sbe wants. Her
voioa is good, with an American twang, and her manners
a good deal bettor than her grammar. For the hrst
hour sbe answered questions, placidly fanning herself
the while. In this sort of general conversation, Ada
certainly showed to greater advantage than her audi-
ence. most of whom started all kinds of vague
gallons, without seeming to know exactly what it was
fchsy wanted. AVhen this ooowrtod. sha hel jA
‘Him gen’huan” through, and with considerable skill.
Tbo answers conveyed a lot of useful knowledge ; but
what specially delighted us was the information sho
gave about babies and old men. Y[hen babies go to —
well, wherever they do go—they keep on growii g till
they get to be quite lovely, and then stopj but old
parties, on the contrary, just turn backwards and got
young again. This prevents any unpleasant jealousy
about personal appearance; there’s no handicap, as it
were; everyone gets an equal chance to become an
angel. There are special arrangements made for tram
victims and others. If a fellow happens to lose a leg or
head, or anything of that kind, ho is immediately
repaired and fixed up sound again when ho gets “over
there.” Small-pox marki don’t five any trouble
“either," and even O’Donovan Eossa’s dynamite
would only cause a little temporary inconvenience,
becaose it a man got disintegrated by accident, ho dbo
pieced together mno time up in the spheres. The
second part of the entertainment consisted of tests.
Names wore written by any one who liked, and on the
papoc beinpr collected, tlier* Beotuod to be about tit teen
thousand of them. Ada, however, explained that some
ot the spirits might not com*. This was fortunate,
because, though passionately fond ot spirits, we hid
not made arrangements for any lengthened a'seure
from our family mwiPioD, and worn noh prepared with
subject* of conversation for more than (say) a couple of
hundred of our dead friends. The papers ware run
over, till throo srhostly raps indicated that ono of the
dear departed bad hurried up to soo what was the
matter. Then his friends proceeded to ask him—Dil
ho feel happy, and was it warm where ho was, and to
question him on other highly important personal
matters ; to all of which he either rapped or didn't, but
in any case it was very satisfactory to have spoken to
your dear dead friend. All the famous people of
modern times, such as Bill Tibbs, Sarah Touskin ,
Susan Muggins, and other celobriuos, came to th«
scratch in turn, and to each unfortunate martyr was put
the same soul-searching conundrum, “Are you happy i
And, amid breathless suspense, the answer always
came, “Yes; happy’s no word for it 1 ” “ Would you
like to wan back f ” generally followed, and with
■Gating regularity omno Ihe "imwer each time, “No. not
muchly ; grid to got away from your p ky little plauet.
Tho remarkable originality of genius which dictated
these deep and subtle questions excited onr warmest
admiration. The qnei is is in every case expressed their
unbounded gratificallou at the results attained i bni.it
takes rerr fltt.U to satisfy some people. Occasionally,
in staid of rapping, spirits would speak to Ada, quite
confidentially. There was no ceremony about it, she
stood still and fust turned one ear, th- same as you do
when the train is passing, and conversation went on
quite comfortably. We strained onr ears—and they’re
good sized ones, too —to catch fome of >t, but wo only
heard half 4ne conversation; that was Ada’s half.
Some of thfe celestials wrote their messages, not ou
anything particularly, but in a vague spot somewhere
between the gaselier and the { allery. They chose that
place because some of them write a big hand, and theie
is plenty of room them. We strained our eyes up there
also, very hard, but we could not make out anything
distinctly. We werh never very good, though, at
getting the hang of obscure handwriting. However,
we’re quite turo it must have been there, because Ada
distinctly pointed to the letters. Giving spiritual
manifestations seems to bo a first-class paying B)>ec ,
judging from Mrs. Foye's large audience, and wo shall
probably start the business oursecves alter our next
libel action is through. -A ato how Ada dot» it, well, wo
don’t know that exactly, but we aregoiugto investigate
immediately, and have just sent the boy out for somo
spirits.
BRIEF MENTION.
Zulu, of course, is a barbarian.
Gin cases i>s each at Singleton. Poor blacks !
John Davies never will bo Mayor of Sydney.
Fact 1
It was a strange 00-cw-rence that brought
Wheatcar down.
Though the Turner troupe has gone, a hop-era
continues at Maitland. Half-crown ho?s. Twig 'i
Gas at Goulburn ICs per 1000 feet. Local press
silent. Three proprietors hold ten shares between
them.
The Newcastle people owe much to The Bul-
letin, "Ca ro Adulhtm,” in the Moknino Crabwrap,
is inactive.
“ You have nothing like our Cup,” remarked a
Melbourne man. “True,” replied Sydney, “but you
caa't lick our picnics.”
Singleton temperance episode : —“ Mr. Chair-
man, the toast I have to propose is a vote of thanks to
the visiting brethren.” Carritd.
The Armicale Chronicle shortly contra-
dicts the report that it had withdrawn its support from
the Government. Sir ’Knery will now be able to launch
out with confidence. •
Those ferocious Chinamen must be kept out;
their immorality is ruining the country. One of these
villains was fined, the other day, at Dubbo, for using
the following horrible language i " Ki waug stab allee
j mini chow chow muck ah hilo no sarco gordam cab-
I l-ogeo.'* At least, that’s what that zealous and lutolli-
gout officer. Constable Denis
O’Mulligan, swore most posi-
tively he heard him say. It is
enough to make one's blood ruu
cold to contemplate the depths
of infamy th'-so heathens can
descend to.
If one alderman dared
speak, there would be a second
Milburn Creek affair at the
Town Hall. Mum I
Death to the Sunday qnes-
Ition 1 Noozk is to hand that
the Bow-street (London) policu
court opens on Sunday.
“A Horse’s Joke” is tho
heading to an article in a recent
Maitland Mercury. Now bad
it been “ A Donkey’s," wo
wouldn’t have been surprised.
We’d have said tho editor was
getting funny.
The only thing that de-
tracted from tho success of tho
Melbourne Cup was the prose-
cution of Thorpe, the bank
swindler. It is simply a bad
arrangement to have two at-
tractions clash in this way.
A man at Waverley has a
splendid friend in tho Sydney
Municipal Council. A piece of
bind that ho has been “ hawk,
ing round the town" for iffi.o,
is offered to the Council for
J6BOO. However, the aldermen
are not all so very green.
Thus the Lyre :—“ An-
other Steamer missing —A tele,
gram has been received stating
that the steamship Charlton,
which left Newcastle for Hong-
kong direct, on November 28,
had not reached In r destination
on November 5 (Saturday)," Is
beer 41. a quart ?
Tho Herald is actually
getting fuunv. It says Captain
Stewart of the Revenna ‘ didn’t
care to round Wilson’s Promon-
tory in tho dark." This is a
nautical novelty. AVe see
further that the Queen is now a
ship of 71 tons, and that another
vessel in tho harbour has been
“ hoisting its anchor.” AVe
know somebody who’ll be
hoisted to the yard-arm if there
isn’t a change soon.
Wo don’t Hko tho second
number of Mary’s Milburn
Creek paper so well us tho lirsl,
because there is not so much of
her writing in it, and none of
her poetry. She has engaged
the services of a scribe who
idiotically signs "Amos Keeter"
and who is, next to a bug, about
the dullest insect wo ever trod
upon. This is the style of thing
ho has been giving tho unfortu-
nate miners:—“That old Car-
coar institution Pop is all tho
rage just now. He has a largo
list of visitors daily. Cause—
his gincer pop. Oh dear, oh
dear, but it’s nice." Also:
"The brace of Patterson and
party’s now shaft, will bo tho
favourite rendezvous of the
girls to get a birds eye view of
the town." There is also an
item about a certain article of
laiv’s attire, the tone of which
leads us to the conclusion that
tho author partook of some-
thing besides exercise before ho
wrote it. Thisjscrtlof thing disappoints us, and we
t hink we are pretty good judg.s now as to what shouli
make a paper go.
In his du'l prose, oh, Mary dear,
There nothing is harmonical;
Whit acc yearn for are those swoet moms.
Wo lap np in the Chroniclt? !
So launch out— don’t let’s ask in vain;
We would ho happy once again.
They found a dead Chinaman floating in the
harbour at Mewcastli, last week, and actually held an
inquest on him. This is monstrous 1
The Forbes Tiaes authoritatively announces
that Protection is finding its way into Russia. The
Cz ir, we should say, will be glad of this.
There was an International Temperance Drink
Exhibition in London last August, when hundred* (f
temperance drinks wore ou view, together with op; ara i.s
f< r making them. The principal machine was the
National Effervescent Fountain, which will manufacture
almost anything at a cost from Id to 3d a glass. Pure
THORPE.
Ob, this must bo a doleful song—
Another holy man gone wrong I
Another godly platform spouter
Turned oat to be an “out-ard-otrtor!’
Another mild, lay-reading chief.
Found Out to be a howling thief !
One more with Templars in great vogue,
Unmasked, is found to be a rogue !
A common rogue—a swindler rank,
■Who'll grunt a prayer, then rob a bonk.
And here, as there, they swarm in shoals.
Those muffin-munching moral souls;
These snuffing water-pitching owls.
Well stuffed with texts and Bankey “ yowls!’
These are “the chosen of the Lord”
(Self-styled), adept in every fraud ;
Men, mild and unctuous, soft and meek,
Kespectable, who half the week
Dow down before the Golden Calf,
And "praise tfc9 Lord” the other half.
These atS the shining lights. It seems,
So full of prayers and thioting schemes,
That he must be expert who may,
Tell when they rob and when they pray.
Yet here, when they all thieve wholesale.
They square It, and don't go to gaol.
Some threats there are—mere verbal thunder,
And then the rogues disgorge some plunder.
An equitable course—and fair !
They do things better over the)'*.
Mr. Thomas Garrett, M.L.A.] [Mr. Ezekiel Baker, M.L.A.
The “Milburn Creek” Disclosures.
“DRUMMED OUT”: A SUGGESTION.
9
THE BULLETIN.
November 12, 1881.


RILEY BROTHERS,
THE CHEAPEST DBAPEES
IM
AUSTRALIA-
'
JJEFORE PURCHASING ELSEWHERE,
BEAD THIS LIST,
AND SAVE FIVE SHILLINGS IN EVERY POUND
YOU HAVE TO LAY OUT.
Horrocks’ longcloth, 3J4
American longcloth.
Nightshirt calico, 4id
Grey calico, 2J4 _
Double width cnlico, 7id
Pillow calico,
Swansdown calico.
White flannel, 7id
Firemen’s flannel. Hid
Wide flannel. Hid
Scarlet flannel, 7id
Saxony flannel, Hid
Cotton tick, 3-J-d
Linen tick, 7id
Stripe bed tick, s|d
Unbleached sheeting, 7|d
White sheeting, 7id
Twilled sheeting, bid
Mosquito net, 6id
Summer quilts, 2s Hd
Honeycomb quilts, 2a Hd
Coloured quilts, 2a 6d
White blankets, 5s Hd
Vallanco nets, 4Jd
Bed fringe, 2id
Marcella covers, 7ld
Honeycomb covers. 10~d
Bedroom towels, 2|d
Bath towels, 6d
Wide matting, 7id
Stair oil cloth, sjd
Passage oil cloth, sid
Table oil cloth. Is 3d
Table damask, Bid
Linen damask, Is 6d
Table napkins, 3d
Table covers, 2s 6d
Lace curtains, 3s Hd
Window holland, 6.,-d
Green window holland, BJd
Striped do. holland,
Velvet hearthrugs, 5s Hd
Roller towellings, 2Jd
Wide osnaburg, sid
Butchers’ serge, Is 3d
Twill shirting, 4£d
Crimean shirtings, 6id
Brown holland, 3fd
White diaper,
Fronting linen. Is
White marcella, Is
Pique muslin, 9d
Book muslin,
Jacoonet for hoods, 7id
Haircord for hoods 7id
Leno muslin, 4id
Pompadour prints, 3J4
Fancy prints, 2Jd
Check prints,
Cambric prints, 6|
Satteen prints, 7£d
Check ginghams, 3Jd
Black alpaca, 6id
Coloured lustre, 6ii
Beige dresses, 4id
Dress materials, 4id
Black crapes. Is 6d
Black cashmeres. Is
Black French twill, 7£d
Black Australian crape, Did
Black silk gloves. Is
Black satin parasols, 3s Hd
Black gros grain, 2s 3d
Black silk, Is 6d
Silks, all colours, 2s Hd
Slate Silesia, 2Jd
Black braid, 36yards. Is
Hooks-and-eyes, 2|d gross
Brooks' cotton. Is 3d dozen
Machine silks, 9d dozen
Black silk buttons, 3d
Bugle fringes
Passementerie gimp
Cashmere mantles, 12s 6d
Chenille capes, 5a Hd
Print costumes, 4s Hd
Muslin dresses, 6s 9d
Silk costumes, 95s
Satin parasols, 3i Hd
Ladies’ umbrellas, 3s Hd
Gent.’s umbrellas, 7s 6d
Children’s parasols. Is 3d
Ladies’ umbrellas, 2s Hd
Best kid gloves, 2s 61
Black two buttons, 2a 6d
Silk gloves. Is 61
Thread gloves, la
Men’s white gloves. Is
Ladies’ muslin ties, 6d
Embroidered ties, 9d
Tarlatan neck ruffling. 2Jd
Swiss muslin works, 2Jd
Registered work, la card
Streamer laces,
New ribbons, 2d
Women’s stockings. 3d
Striped stockings, 4|d
Unbleached stockings, 6d
Navy, cardinal do, 6d
Girl’s stockings,
Children’s socks, 3d
Men’s cotton socks. 3d
Men’s seamless socks, Gd
Men's woollen socks. 9d
Boys’ cotton socks, 3d
Ladies’ linen collars,
Ladies’ leather bags. 2s Hd
G ris’ school hats, 9d
Ladies* flop hats. Is 6d
Cherry ripe hats, la 6d
Gardener's daughter, Is 6d
Boys’ straw sailors. Is
Boys’ felt hats, Is 6d
Plants in pots, 4s 6d
Ladies’ stays, 2s 6d
White petticoats, Is Hd
Ladies’ night dresses,ls Hd
Trimmed drawers. Is 3d
Trimmed chemises. Is 6d
Trimmed camisoles, Is 9d
Children's underclothing
Baby linen—everything
Children’s pinafores, 94
Children’s pelisses. Is Hd
Infants’ frock bodies, 9d
Infanta’ robes, Is Hd
Merino squares, 5s Hd
Children’s hoods, 2s
Black silk girdles, 9d
Coat’s machine, 2s 9d duz.
Evan’s crotchet, Is 9d doz.
Coloured cottons, 44 doz.
Hank crochet. Is Hd
Hairpins, box
Blocked tapes, Bid dozen
Flowers for hats, 4sd
Ostrich feathers, 2i 6d
Victoria lawn, 3J4
Thimbles, best, 4£d
Lines buttons, o|d
Elastics, 9d dozen cards
Darning cotton, 6£d
i-oz. black silk, sid reel
FOR BOYS’ WEAR.
Riley Brothers’ Straw Hats, la
Riley Brothers’ Felt Hats, Is 64
Riley Brothers’ White Shirts, la 114
Riley Brothers’ Working Shirts, Is
Riley Brothers’ Cotton Socks, 34
Riley Brothers’ Linen Collars,
Riley Brothers’ Elastic Braces, 34
Riley Brothers’ Shakespeare Hats, Ss 64
Riley Brothers’ Oxford Shirts. 2s 114
Riley Brothers’ Linen Coats, 2 t lid
Riley Brofhers’ Alpaca Coats, 5s 61
Riley Brothers’ New Ties, 64
Riley Brothers’ Washing Suits, 2s 64
Riley Brothers’ Hussar Suits, 3s 64
Riley Brothers’ Knicker Suits, 3s 64
Riley Brothers’ Tweed Suits, 3s 64
Riley Brothers’ Sunday Suits, 7a Gd
Riley Brothers’ Sailor Suits, 7s 61
Riley Brothers’ Trousers Suits, 12s 9d
Riley Brothers’ Youths’ Suits, 12s 9d
Riley Brothers’ Sunday Suits, 15s
Riley Brothers’ Mole Trousers, 2a Hd
Riley Brothers’ Tweed Trousers, 2s Hd
Riley Brothers’ Black Hats, 2s 64,
FOR MEN’S WEAR.
Tweed suits, 19a 6d
Summer suits, 19s 6d
Bliss’s tweed, 19s 6d
Cloth pagets, 15s
Tweed pagets, 15s
Tweed sacs, 8s 6d
Walking coats, 15s
Linen coats, 4s 6d
Office coats, 4s 64
Alpaca sack, 5 a Hd
Moleskin tronsers, 3s Hd
Tweed trousers, 3s 6d
Doeskin tronsers, 5s 6d
Bliss's tweed, 7s Gd
Best trousers. 7s Gd
Black cloth, 12a 9d
Trousers and vest, to
match, 9a 61
Best tweed, 12a 9d
White shirts, 2a 64
Military fronts, 2a Gd
Oxford shirts, 2s Hd
Regatta shirts, 2s Gd
Flannel shirts, 2s Hd
Undershirts, Is Gd
Working shirts, Is 64
Double backs, la 64
Shakespeare hats, 3s 6d
Pocket hats, 8s Gd
Felt hats, 2s Gd
Straw hats, 2s Gd
Cricketing hats. Is
Elastic braces, Gd
Linen collars, 4J4
Cotton socks. 3d
Seamless socks, 61
Silk umbrellas, 7s 6d
Gent’s Handkerchiefs,4i4
4:2 PARCELS sent Carriage Paid by Railway or
Steamers to any town.
£5 BALES of any articles of Drapery Carriage Free
all over the colony. We have sent away over 30,000
Bales, all giving great satisfaction.
We have pleasure in stating that not one of the host
of imitators of our celebrated £5 system now exists.
RILEY BaOTHERS,
THE
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
The last of the assembly balls, at the Glebe,
took place in the local Town Hall, on Tuesday. Report
next week.
Mil|s, Pile, and Gilchrist, who have of late been
Njllin/ some of the most attractive spots on this planet,
oiler Orchardleigh, Saturday, Nov. 12. Situation, Guild-
ford railway station—splendid frontages, Ac.
The foundation-stone of the new Masonic Hall
(N.S.W. Constitution) was laid on Wednesday. Very
large and influential attendance of brethren. Brother
Farnell, M W.G M., assisted by other dignataries of the
Order, performed the ceremony. Ball and banquet in
the evening.
It is useful to know the derivation of words"
Both • cocoa ’* and “ chocolate " are of Mexican origin-
The word “chocolate” is derived from “chocolatl,”
the sound produced by the primitive stones used to
bruise and mix the cocoa with the sugar; whereas
“cocoa” is the name under which the unadulterated
beans of the “ theobroma cacao ” of Innumus are im-
ported into England. Those who wish for cocoa abso-
lutely pure, should ask for the Cocoa Essence originally
prepared by Cadbury Brothers.— Adv.
Use Jannasch’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
game, fish, milk, Ac., sweet during the hottest weather,
by speedy and simple process; no deleterious chemical
used. To be had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt.— Advt.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uucoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as* being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Ham. Tiiuonoiiu Sxaigek, analytical
chemist.”—Anvr.
soda-water can bo produced at a half-penny a pint. The
Sromoters say that in the case of some persons, coffee
rinking is as bad in its effects as rum drinking; water,
especially iced, is also injurious sometimes; and, in
fact, the only really safe refuge in the season of drought
is to fly to the National Effervescent Fountain!
They’re posting Irish Iettor*carriers now to the
best world.
It was a ease ot Coffin when the baby died, and
m coffin of case when it was buried.
We hope that Te Whiti, now that he’s been
YUn in, will be fined at least 60s. and costs, or sent to
quod.
A free-selertor gave a soirbe dansante at Gympio
lost week. Each bachelor brought his own blankets and
insect powder.
Telegram from Milburn Creek t “ We’ve crushed
well.” Ditto to Milburn Greek i “ We’ve been crushed
completely.—Baked.”
There are fifteen houses in Baptist-street, Surry
Hills, and fourteen of them take The Bulletin. The
other house is quarantined.
It is quite clear from recent revelations that
numbers make their bread by politics. Every man his
own baker. This is a line for loafers 1
“ Tea fights ” are all the rage in Gonlburn at
present—average, four per week. Grand obance for
some enterprising Melbourne importer.
The Noozk announced twioe that Wheatear
broke his log while running for the Cup. Strange
what mistakes are made over these cups.
A Woolloomooloo man, who has a mangle on
the first floor and is content himself with a place in the
cellar, declares he does not live above his moans.
A Maitland clothes-line was stripped the other
night of a quantity of table-linen and one shirt. The
absence of the local editor from the picnic next day
was remarked by several.
A marine company in Tasmania is likely to split
ou the teetotal question. The case in point is whether
the mvnager or the chairman shall be allowed a square
foot—or, rather, a bottle—of gin daily.
A Policeman’s Oath. Question for senior classes
in Public Schools; —How many respectable citizens’
oaths would it take to break down the unsupported
testimony of one gentleman in blue ?
“ No matter, Tom,” Ezekiel cried,
" The war I’ll carry right on 1”
•• No doubt,” Tom Garrett grimly growled,
*• You’ve something got to fight on.”
The Noozk announces that there will be a final
burst-up of the world on the 15th Nov. Will our sub-
scribers kindly bnliovo the Lyre for onoe, and send along
the needful ? Wo shall want it for “ hush money.”
Melbourne telegram:—“ Zulu’s win was a
national loss. The pawnbrokers’ shops are crowded
night and day.” The telegram, to be more concise,
might have been,—” The ruling figure here now is 2
to 1.”
The boys are beginning to advertise for wives
in Murrurundi. A high-toned young belle answered
one the other day, and, when she met her pretendu, die-
covered that it was the groom at the Criterion. She
now only answers the matrimonial ads. in the Lyre.
a:;hop-eea.
At Maitland West each ’prentice lad.
And servant girl, is dancing mad;
Whilst budding bankers, spooney fops.
Are shining lights at half-crown 11 hops.”
Doubtful compliment Morning newspaper
proprietor to Bingera squatter: “Sit down now with
us. Yon must, of course, take pot luck.” *' Oh ! not at
all; not at all! Your company is ample amends for
the absence of the roast goose. It is, I assure you.”
All sit down.
Under the heading “ Harrowing Circumstance,”
the Mtjdgee Giraffe says ;—“-At the Primitive Metho-
dist Church the funeral procession halted, and the Eev.
Mr. Kingdom conducted the usual services for the
dead.” It’ll be Kingdom come for that editor if he goes
on at this rate.
The collector of a well-known fiercely religious
journal recently arrived at Quart Pot Creek to collect
accounts. He found one subscriber had absconded, two
in gaol, four in the mad-house, and the rest insolvent.
That township is now spoken of at the Sydney office in
savage tones as Gomorrah.
Gympie parsons preach fire and brimstone on
Sunday, and go share-jobbing the rest of the week.
When things have not gone very rosy in the scrip lino,
the church smells of sulphur before the conclusion of
the sermon, and the women begin to look about for the
“ handwriting on the wall.”
The committee of the Forbes Jockey Club have,
they advertise, decided to “ hold a bazaar during the
annual races, and devote the proceeds towards the liqui-
dation of their Club debt.” After this, w« shouldn’t
be surprised to hear of the Baptist parson getting up a
race meeting to pay his water-rate.
Jones —who has an aversion to kneeling down
to say his prayers at his bedside on a cold night—is in
the habit of writing a long prayer on a sheet of paper,
and pinning it to the curtain at the head of his bod.
Before turning in, he kneels down, and briefly says,
“Them’s my sentiments, oh Lord.”
Figures of speech are dangerous weapons. “ Ah !
yes, dear friends,” said an elderly archdeacon recently
from the pulpit of a suburban church; “ ah! ye’, I
would like to see our young men going at the Christian
■work with heart; going at it like a noble ship—stem
and stern —and ” (Suppressed laughter )
The Cumberland Mercury hints at postal
thieving, several numbers of that interesting paper not
having reached subscribers. There is a simple remedy
within reach of the editor. Let him borrow Evening
Times’ wrappers—or get some for himself—the name of
his paper to be printed in large letters on the outside.
Thus in the Nooze “ Some scoundrels at Moon-
bi, says the Tamworth Observer, have cut the logoff a
mony belonging to Mr. W. B. Barber, who has frequently
been subjected to similar annoyances.” Under ordinary
circumstances, a man could not thus suffer very fre-
quently—say two or three times at most; but it’s
“double you are" (W.B.) Barber.
The bazaar speculators are going it. The Wes-
leyan (Wollongong) notice contains the following— a gem
in its way :—“Contributors of Live Stock and Farm Pro-
duce will oblige by having their gifts in prime condi-
tion by the above date, and without delay sending a
list of them to the undersigned." “Live stock" is good
—but shouldn't the description be specified ?
Rays the editor of the Parkes Chronicle :—
number of the Chronicle will be issued on
Tfehjfiay, because we want to go to the sports on Wed-
noway, and we do not deem it a good line to delay the
pnOTicaf ion until Thursday, as we expect to be fatigued
after the holiday.” This is the sort of man who would
ship an issue in order to attend a dog-fight, and hold
over a 11 leader ” in order to mangle the family washing.
We admire him.
Says the Argonaut : —” The young Czar leads
rather a patriarchal life in the retirement of Peterhoff.
He walks about the village with his wife and children,
visits the huts e£ the peasants, and shows a paternal
interest in their affairs.” fcome of the peasants,
according to latest advices, are showing an interest in
the Czar’s affairs, but whether it’s paternal or not the
next public appearance of his Majesty will probably
show.
At Forbes, recently, an insolvent refused to be
sworn on anything but the revised edition. After a
great deal of trouble, during which the Court had to
adjourn, the new revision was procured. Ton minutes
afterwards it was ascertained that the witness’s slop
was the only place where one was procurable ; and, a
little later still, it was found that his estate would only
realise in the pound.
I can see her there afar,
I can mark her golden tresses,
And she looks from where they are.
And she knows it me distressf s.
For she reads my bleeding sonl.
And she makes me write a ballad.
Knows I love beyond contiol.
While she calmly makes a salad.
The Maryborough (Q ) paper in noticing the
nuptials of a cheap tailor, who was married with great
pump a id circumstance in Brisbane recently, is savage,
not to tay brutal, ou the subject of some garments the
noble bridegroom mode for eeVbral leading citizens
there. We won’t topedt what they actually do say, but
We <fill fiSk It in the simple Intimatiorl that not one of
thbir expressions embody one single grain of the retort
Kurtzeous.
Scene : A Paddington church ; evening service.
A collection is being made by stout, white-haired
churchwarden, assisted by a tall military pillar.
Vivacious young spark and girl in obscure corner.
Former (loq.): “Betyertwo tram tickets agen a kiss
that the long ’un’s done fust.” Latter: “ All right, I’ll
back the fat ’un.” She won her bet by dropping the
threepence she contributed, and so kept the man she
had betted against waiting while she hunted for it.
An elderly gehtleman (said to be distantly con-
nected with the Town Hall), getting away from his
wife on the plea of pressing business last Wednesday,
took the ’bus down to Botany, and laid himself out for
a day “with the gals.” After lapping down several
straighteners ho went to the pavilion, and, seeing two
young ladies transgressingthe rules by dancing together,
~ho tripped on tip-toe after them, and, taking them play-
fully by their waist*, cried, “Come, this isn’t fair, dar-
lings 1” “Lor!" they both cried, “Master I” They
were his cook and nurse-girl.
A high-toned Grafton girl was asked to go for a
drive, the other day, by a rich farmer friend of hers,
who had recently bought anew buggy. She agreed,
and when she had rigged herseif up in anew dress,
just home from Feapes and Shaw’s, her friend and his
wife drove round in a vegetable cart to fetch her. Un-
able to refuse, she got in, and after being driven through
the principal streets of the town, crossed the river on
a punt, upon which was a two-horse buggy, containing
two of her discarded lovers. . . . When she got
home she was put to bod with a broken heart, and never
rose until the circus came.
Tingha Banner and the Aemidale
Chronical are not cousins. Some writer in the
former lampooned the editor of the latter, whereupon
the Chronicle man penned the following;—“ We may
venture to inform the obtiusive scribbler of the Tin pot
Wiper that we think it highly undesirable to advertise
his miserable little effusions in this city, we therefore
decline to observe his wrathful comments and beg him
to confine the exercise of his gigantic brains to the
residents of Tin-pot.” And yet there are people who
have written that Dickens' description of the Eatan-
swill Gazette and Eatanswill Independent was
ludicrously overdrawn! What the world now pants
for is to see the reply of the Banner of “ Tin-pot,"
Garnet ‘(bless him!) in his Melbourne paper.
Town Talk, says “As we left the scone of gaiety and
excitement, we confess to a feeling of pride that of all
the army of touts and tipsters our special sporting cor-
respondent alone mentioned the winner ; in his rhyming
tip, published last Saturday, he describes the yell of the
ring that 1 Zulu wins,’ adding, however, hie opinion that
Trump Yoss would catch him on the post; and in dis-
cussing the chances of the various Cup horses, he
writes; * But of all the outsiders nothing rends so well
as Zulu, the best of Barbarian’s progeny. This horse,
a good performer, is literally thrown in, and is, in fact,
at sst. 71b , the most leniently handicapped horse in the
race.’ ” And yet everybody has lost I This doesn’t
speak much for Garnet’s circulation, of course; but
still his facts are not to be disputed—by those who have
read the paper.
Up in the North, somewhere near Tamworth, a
number of youngsters propped up a dead kangaroo.
They knew that the local clergyman—an inveterate sport
—must pass that way, and from their ambush they soon
discovered him approaching. Setting spurs to his horse
he rode up at a smart gallop. No move from the “old
man." Piety dismounted, and in the most artistic
manner, and with bludgeon in hand, advanced upon the
marsupial. One blow laid him low. It was, however,
the screech from the adjacent bush, and not the sudden
demise of the 11 old man," that made the parson feel
discomfited.
What a sell, you sportsmen bold 1
What a suck-in for the lot!
Oh, how cleanly you were sold—
Not a single place you got I
Though you tipped the fav'rites all.
Giving five for places three.
Only think it did befall.
Not a single one would gee!
Ob, ye tipsters, we believed
Just a bit in you of yore;
But now, we have been deceived.
We’ll believe in you no more.
The new Melbourne paper, the Evening Mail
(price, one half-penny), does not appear to be a distin-
tinguished success. This is due to the fact of its
politics being uncongenial to the great, horny-handed,
and partly on account of the proprietary having engaged
a Sydney “ thirty-bobber ” to write for the first issue of
the paper. Here is a chunk of him:—“The serenade
given by the band on Saturday night to Herr Wilhelraj
at Menzies’ Hotel was not only a most appropriate com-
pliment to that great artist, but was in every way a
most enjoyable affair. Having discussed sweet music
in the street, the players discussed Rhine wine with
their host in the house. The great virtuoso said, ‘ Gen-
tlemen, I thank you! ’ Mr. Weston and Mr. Stonehain
made complimentary speeches at much greater length
and everyone present, including the representative of
the Evening Mail, contributed heartily to the cheer-
ing.” This reminds us of a contemporary when he
wrote of the picnic:—“The corn beef took well also
the Kolonial wine which though sower gave pleasure
to all.”
A. dark suspicion has crossed our mind that a
white tie and spectacles must somehow have got mixed
up with the Monaeo Mercury. This gloomy notion is
based upon the appearance in the Monaro papor of the
following piece of poetry:—
“ That a brave young whip in Cooma,
As brave never was born.
Would tackle a drunken man sooner.
Without using a black thorn."
Have at you :
It we were that brave “ whip ” of Cooma,
We’d land our dull poet a boomer ;
Just give him what “ whips” bestow often, you’ll find,
A dexterous crack with the whipcord— behind.
Looking 1 about last Monday for something to
wipe our boots on, we picked up a certsin journal, and
read the following highly considerate and exhaustive
apology:—“ We regret to say that owing to a typo-
graphical error in the first ‘ eddishun’ of our last issue,
a trifling injustice was done to Mr. J. Kobobolus, who
was described as the defendant in a case of indecent
assault, when in point of fact he was the plaintiff. Air.
Kobobolus is a very respectable, and a very clean old
man, and it is not true, as we inadvertently stated that
he got bis living by stealing the lead off dead men’s
coffins. Neither was he transported for braining his
bed-ridden mother with a log of word, nor is he at the
present time living with another person’s wife. The
assertion also made that Mr. Kobobolus once stole the
shirt off a small-pox Chinaman’s b.vok is likewise ent rely
without foundation ; and the same may be said of the
remark made that he murdered his wife in col I blood
and then roasted her alive, and danced upon her. In
point of fact, we have since learnt it was Mr. Kot obe-
lus’ wife who murdered him, and we therefore trust
those trifling errors which crept in our usually reliable
Police Court notice will not cause Mr. Kobobolus tbe
slightest inconvenience.” The heading of thejonrnd
in question was torn off, but we need scarcely say it
wasn’t a Hunter or King street rag by a long way.
The latest “official utterance” of the Presby-
terian Synod savs: —“ The Synod having heard the
reports of the brethren on the state of i eligion, regards
the same as being on the whole encouraging, and
affording much cause for gratitude to the Great Head
of the Churoh, and while eeckiwj to he deeply humbled on
account of the comparatively low itato of vital religiou
in our midst, as a Church, wa would desire to dedicate
ourselves anew to the service of God." If the “state
of religion” is “ on the whole encouraging,” it ia some-
what difficult to discover why the Synod " seeks to be
deeply humbled;” but, it it really must be taken down
a peg, we would advise it to try a quiet stroll round the
vital parts of Woolloomooloo.
Only last week we read that three men knocked an
unfortunate woman down in a public street over there,
and one gentleman knelt on her whilst another robbed
her. This happened in the broad daylight; the woman
struggled desperately on the ground for a quarter of an
hour, and during the whole of that time 50 grown-up
persons stood gazing on the fun. as motionless and
silent as so many baked oysters. Religion hadn't much
of a grip on that lot.
One Mr. Hop Wall, who evidently holds rather
liberal views of a future state, hangs out hla shingle
with the following information :
; No TRUSTEE—NO CUSTEE : T
; Bustee is Hell. :
: No TRUSTEE—NO BUSTEE ! i
j No Bustee—no Hell. f
Mr. Hop Wah has apparently been a master-tailor, and
got experience.
The Newcastle paper does not seem to hav-
oven yet. got over the Ministerial banquet, the melan
choly effects of which upon local journalism we pointed
out in a recent issue. In its impression of the 31st
ult., in an article on the wreck of the barque Glimpse,
we road that:—” About 8 p.m., on the 21st, the vessel
shipped a tremendous sea, which tore all her bows
open, as well as covering-boards, and port-main rigging
on the starboard side.” Of course, the Nkwcistle
Herald, being the organ of a shipping commnnity,
should (know more about seamanship than wo do, but
still we can’t quite understand how even a tremendous
sea could tear open the “ port-main rigging on the
starboard side." We expect the man whe .wrote this
had either been splicing the main-brace, or else his
experience of a ship is bo limited that he would be at
a loss to distinguish the fore-sheet from the cross-jack
tack. Wo strongly recommend this nautical Junius
to swallow the snatch-block, make a cravat of the top-
mast-staysailjtrippipg-line, and soar aloft. And if that
don’t suit him, let him come down and join Alfred’s
paper. They want another man there to write about
the limpid rocks.
Since, in The Bulletin, we inaugurated a new
style of journalism, there has been scarcely a single
town or country journal but which has raked up some
literary scarecrow, and given him injunctions to copy
the airy style of our pars, in their papers. Our latest
imitator is a miscreant who writes in the Aruidale
Chronicle, and signs “ Ventilator,” and we may safely
say that nothing like him has appeared in the public press
since the foreign correspondent of a Sydney daily last
wrote from Dubbo. Here is a specimen of his poetry i
“ Oh, hotel bells of Armidale
Announcing meals in forty voices—
Steaks, chops, along with glass of ale,
All your sweet sounds my heart rejoices” (sic).
After reading this we should consider it no crime to put
a little more ventilation into “ Ventilator” than would
be quite consistent with his personal oemfort, but we re-
strain our gory proclivities, and give him these two little
stanzas instead
“THE CHARGE WAS WITHDRAWN.”
Oh ! well may Justice hide her face.
And men indignant talk.
The rich may drive at any pace.
The poor man’s horse must walk.
An alderman at furious speed
May turn the comers round.
The costermonger’s shaggy steed
Must not be trotting found.
The poor man has no friends, you see;
The rich have rights divine':
So Dan, "the people’s friend,’’ goes free,
While cabby pays a fine.
Our laws lay not an even yoke
On all within this town—
They make it hard for common folk,
But Members laugh them down.
TO VENTILATOR.
Now, come, young man, and stand before us!
Fear not, we hold no bullock-hide
Say, was it simply just to bore us.
You forsook the counter’s aide ?
Go back again, and snip off toffee;
Sand the sugar in the store;
“ Mix” the tea and damp the coffee;
But, for God's sake, write no more!
At Ultima Thule Station, North Queensland,
when the shearing was over, the men decided to pre.
sent their cook with a testimonial, and so gave him a
purse of sovereigns (containing 35s.), together with the
following address “ Ultima Thue Station, Itth Oct.,
1881. We the undersigned Shearers Now at this Station
have much pleasure in Testefying to the ability of
as first-class Shearer’s Cook, and Specialey
Becomend his infalable ability as a bnkor, wo earnestly
request him to accept the followmg Contrabutions as a
token of our appriciation for him.” Two hours later,
when he had thoroughly mastered this composition,
the cook called the hands to him, and proceeded to
return thanks. “ Mates,” he began, “ I’m only a com-
mon cook, I know. (Dissent, and cries of ‘ Give it lip.')
Being only a common cook like yourselves—(* No,’
‘ Yes,' and confusion) —Leastways, ho wsomedever, bein’,
as I said, only a common cook —(uproar)—this here
prestimonial—(applause)—leastways, prestibution, is,
considerin' I’m only a common cook—(renewed up-
roar) —this here—which I mean to say—and oetra.”
{Vociferous cheering.)
BAKER.
The bolt has fallen with a crash;
This time there is no doubt of it;
Ezekiel, who grabbed the cash.
This trip is fairly “ out of it 1”
And now the legislative floor.
Its Baker will behold no more.
The star of Garrett glimmers pale,
High in the heaven legislative ;
And quondam friends who snuff the gale.
Kef use to be communicative;
And 'mongst themselves, they ev’ry minute.
Thank Heaven that they weren’t in it.
The Council patriarchs look glum;
They don’t like noisy legislation;
While there are actually some
Who pooh-pooh all this indignation.
“ What bosh, what bosh 1" the old boys cry—
“ How we’d have laughed in times gone by.”
The Penny Ferguson has struck a bard at
last. His name is Jim Duff, and he has written a piece
in the paper called “Parted.” It is very nice poetry,
and this is how it ends:—
“ She still looks out from the balcony.
And, listening to the martial strain.
She calls aloud in her lover’s name
She never will see on earth again.”
She saw his name once, then—where ? Poised in phos-
phorescent letters in the air, or—this is it! —on her
mother’s milk bill. Of course ! Well, never mind, old
girl; if he has gone for a soldier, he’ll come back again,
never fear! You can expect him anytime after sun-
down, with his martial blanket around him, and the
tickets of his regimentals concealed in his hat-band.
Then you can give the bard the tip, and that will ex-
tract another poetic plum from this Dutf. That reminds
us that we should like to see Jim ourselves, anytime
after he’s home with the cart.
10
November 13, 1481.
THE BULLETIN.


WAYEELEY TEAMWAY
VICKERY’S TA:
and
LAND ADJOINI
now being subdivide
Mr. SURVEYOR AT(
for Auction Sale on the
SATURDAY, 12th NC
at 3.30 p.m.
SITUATED ON THE BASTE
WAYEELEY.
3 ALLOTMENTS, cadi 'l3 foot f
•• HAKDT STREE
6 ALLOTMENTS, having from 431
VICTORIA stee:
10 ALLOTMENTS, each having 35
PROSPECT STEE
BLOCK OF LAND, having 132 foe
PECT STREET, on which is or
dious stone premises known as
VICKEEY’S TANI
127 FEET in length; a fine chance f(
as the BUILDING may easi
either a
PUBLIC HALL,
SCHOOL,
CHUB
TEEMS, £ CASH; BALANCE E
PAYMENTS.
HARDIE AND 6
HAVE received instruction!
auction, on
SATURDAY, 12th N(
ON THE GROU
19 VILLA SITES.
LITHOS. and TEAM TICKET
FREE TRAMS ON DAT
SATURDAY, NOVEI
OECHAEDLEIG
close to the Guildford
EXTENDING ALONG THE E
TOWARDS FAIEF;
UNDULATING COU
GOOD SOIL.
275 CHOICE BUILDINI
V 11 XT, ~ Vi fITTQ foflf. T^R<
THE FOREST ROAD
HUESTVILLE,
GANNON’S FOEE
facing the MAIN ILLAWAi
on the
SURVEYED LINE of the ILLAW
and
within 200 yards of the PEOPOJ
Opposite the BLUE PO,
adjoining the POST OFFICE, and
and PUBLIC SCHO
Also on the same date we sh
GROUND, that well-known hostelr
ELITE POST IT
BATT, ROOD, and 3
HAVE received instructions tc
AUCTION,
on
SATURDAY, 19th NO
at 3.30 p.m.
ON THE GEOUN
WITHOUT EE SEE
The above VALUABLE ESTATI
divided by Mr. Licensed Survey
msr THE ESTATE consists of i
CULTURAL LAND, is well TIMI
elevated (being, in fact, the HIGH
district), and oommanding YAEI
GEORGE’S RIVER, BOTANY, S
surrounding country for miles aroui
TITLE FEEEHOI
TEEMS MOST LIBERAL, viz.,
POSIT, and the BALANCE by fou
at 6, 12,18. and 21 months from dab
cent, interest.
SOLICITOR to the Estate—
W. C. PEOOTOB,
ROUGH TRACING, showing pla
the ROOMS.
LITHOGRAPHS NOW
NEXT SATURDAY, 12th ;
AT 4 P.M.
ON THE GEOUI
6 CHOICE VILLA
part of the suhdivisi
The W. and W. Omnibus Co
WAVEELEY,
Having good frontages to O’Dou
depths.
HARDIE AN 3 G(
HAVE received instructions
on the ground, immediately
of the
VICKERY’S TANNER’S
THU ABOYE-MENTK
CHARMING
LITHOS. NOW OBTi
TOEEENS* TITLE. ]
CASH FEICE LIST OP WJM
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WIN
RED.
per doz.
Claret
Dalwood
Hermitage
Shiraz
Burgundy ..
Surest Shiraz
Reisling... ... ...
Dalwood
Hock
Madeira
Bouffier’s Pineau..
Brown Muscat ...
9s Od
.. 10s Od
.. 10s Od
.. lls Od
.. 12s 6d
.. 13s Od
WHITE
J. T. F
Adel aid
{rich
type)
Adelaic
Linden
cat, v
Tokay
round
llavei
Linden
vinta
FOREIGN WINE
Good Port ... 2ia to 36s Od 1 Good S
SPIRITS-
Hennefls/s * Case
Brandy ... ...
Hennessy s
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky..
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky ...
Burke’s Case
Whisky
Other Brands Irish
Whisky ... 37s to 45s Od
ALES AND STOU
per doz.
Bulldog Ale, qts.... lls Od
Bulldog Ale, pints
Poster’s Ale, qts...
Foster’s Ale, pints.
Aitken’s Ale, qts...
Dryborough’s Ale,
pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Country Orders for Ales and
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of
6d. per dozen extra will be charged
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottl
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office
All Goods delivered carriage frc(
town or to the Wharves or Redfe
Terms —Prompt Nett Cash on givir
9s Od
10s Od
10s Od
lls Od
15s Od
15s Od
69s Od
71b Od
45s Od
45s Od
46s Od
42s Od
38s 6d
8s Od
lls Od
8s Od
10s Od
6s 6d
9s 9d
Rum, I
Rnm,P
Jama
Rum, L
Jama
Brandy
Cases
Gin, K
15 Bo
size)
Gin, K
15 Be
size)
Wolfe’s
Boar’s!
pints
Foster’
Pig Bi
quart
Pig Bi
pints
T. VIVIAN KAIK
WINE & SPIRIT MER
65 Pitt-strcet, Syd
Department of R
Sydney, Ist R
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Spanish Royalty does not visit Paris. Yet
people ask what good has the French Revolution done.
Mr. Anthony Trollope is writing a novel which
Will appear in Blackwood, and he has completed a story
liir the Christmas number of the Graphic.
Mr; Arthur, RBkiHiifc, Ministbr fdr Mines, has
fetused the title of C.M.G. Wi don’t kilo w.who Will
feel most aggrieved—the Queen or John Davies,
The Crown Prince and Princess of Denmark
have come into an enormous fortune of £3,000,000 by
the death of Prince Frederick of the Netherlands.
“Peace with Honour. ” The only person vho
competed with Sit Samuel Wilson for the lease of
Hughenden Manor, was Madame Elise, the milliner 1
His Honor Judge M'Farland and the residents
Hf Shoalhairen ate at varitWee. Meeting called for the
sith Nov., to petition the Government oh the matter.
Dr. Egan, the Government vaccinator for Syd-
iley, is now on a visit to Melbourne, looking after some
fayiph—we mean lymph—for his establishment at the
top Of King-street.
'file present Ctfar is fervently religious, and ex-
pects everyone to be as puritanical itfl EirH.sijlf. Count
Iguatieff, the renowned diplomatic liar, has conse-
quently turned saint.
Mr. M'Elhone, while en route to Victoria, re-
fused to be fumigated, saying he was proof against
tilery thing. Police insisted, and more brimstone was
Supplied the legislator.
Sir James ftJ'ddlidcii waAthe first to receive the
offer of chairmanship of the V ictorhlri Education .Com-
mission. An English cable, however, called Sir i nines
to England, and he leaves shortly.
Sir Samuel Wilson’s lease of Hughenden Manor
is subject to a right of subletting, it being Sir Samuel s
intention to purchase a large estate in England so soon
as he can find one that is suitable.
Temora editors going to law. Mr. W. H. L.
Bailey, of the Teemora Herald, his been called upon
to answer a charge of criminal libel, preferred by
Adolph Johann Stookhardt Wehr, of the Temora Star.
Mt. Robertson Smith, ex-Profeaser in the
Scottish Flee Chutoh, is now virtually the editor of
the “ EncyclopaMia Britanilica,” With Mr. J. Sat her-
knd Placß, who Was? also’ at ofie tithe a minister Of the
IxeO dhUrch;
The French ItoftiWiefln,' RotTiS child, ptir-
chased Camden-place, Chiselhtll'st, o*# the Betid Of the
Empress Eugdnio, who has since purchased an ostite
at Farnborough for £50,000, expending another like
Bum ia improvements.
Sir Henry Parkes is reported to have said that
the revelations of the Milbnrn Creek affair, are at
present nothing like what they will b“J. Well; Sir Henry
can’t shirk all responsibility in the matter. The Mil-
bnrn Creek vote was made a Ministerial question.
Dr. Largo, who had practiced his profession at
Tnmut for just upon 40 years, died at that town on the
03ad October. Ho was a surgeon in the Irish battalion
(luring the Portugese war of succession in 1831, and
Eaihe to this Colony in 1813 in charge of one of the early
emigrant ship'll
A country paper gives lia this lteni£-“ It is re-
ported that Mr. Baker, ex-Minister for Mmes. lsto hi
appointed Chairman of the Metropolitan Licensing
Board, at a salary of £1000.” We simply remark that
report is mostly wrong—especially when found in a
Qundagai paper.
The Prince of Wales is accredited with a bon mot,
apropos of the Ashmead- Bartlett Burdett-Coutts matri-
monial business. “ What can have made her do it f
gaid Lord Londesborough. “ Not love, surely. She s
100 old ‘‘ ‘'And not money,” added Alan Young,
•• she don’t want it.” ‘‘ I'll tell you what it was, re-
marked H.E.H., after a pause: It as "tfPioslir 1
An application was made in tlie iWolb'bet'ns
Supreme Court, on the 4th, for an attachment to issue
against Commodore Wilson for contempt of court in
causing the arrest of the bandsman, S. Yates, aLer he
was discharged on a writ of habeas corpus, Th 3 appli-
cation was granted, the writ to be returnable on Thurs-
day next. The Victorian Government has placed the
services of the best counsel at the disposal of the Com-
iiitfdefe;
Mr. Ridhdrd Teede,- o? tbe A.M.P, Society, who
has given evidence of being a thorough
actuary, has unfortunately for a time to reiintjmrework
owing to the failure of his eye-sight. Mr. Teeco, although
a young man, has contributed some valuable papers on
the theory and practice of life assurance to the Journal
of the Institute of Actuaries and other London insur-
ance publications. Richard will doubtles soon be him-
ielf again I
Onedf the artists of the Illustrated London
ReWs, Mr. Connelly, d yduhg Irishman, who is rapidly
fising to eminence in his pfofetfew, has had the honour
(J£ a dOnindand to Efalmoral. The Queen and all her
Siesta inspected Mr. Donnelly’s large Fietnres at the
dyal Review at Edinburgh; and Bis sketches of the
Clyde. Thd Queen ppoke Motet graciously and en-
couragingly to the arti&t, aud Approved of the
pictures, which will now be historical.
Says The Whitehall Review •‘‘TheM fc
something very terrible about the death of Mr. Clark-
son DC So long ago as May he was bitten in the ear
by his favourite dog. The wound was not cauterised,
and Mr. Clarkson thought nothing more about the mis-
hap i but on Sunday week ho complained of pains in the
bitten ear, and on Saturday night he was dead—of
hydrophobia. His son, who was bitten m the cheek at
the same time, witnessed his father’s death. Happily.
Mr. Clarkson was quite conscious to tho last, and the
end was peaceful.”
The famous M. Worth, the greatest man-mil-
liner in the world, has a country house furnished m the
most lavish fashion, but containing nothing more
Sing to the visitor than tho extensive aviary, in
Which shores of birds of all conceivable hues flit about
at their ease. Tho aviary, it seems, is more than a
whim Of its owner. He declares that ho derives from
•ff h “ notion for some of his most striking combinations
and dS confedmU. “ When I am at a loss for a new
idea as to colour-blending.” ho says. “ I go and watch
mv birds, and almost certainly soon see some chance
combination of hues as they flit about which gives me
the desired notion.” If this be indeed a fact, and we
no reason to doubt it. it would appear that his
worthy birds aro in reality helping him to feather his
nost when they feather their own.
judge Docker, while presiding at Wilcannia,
knocked a sympathising jury into shape in a very cu-
recently. Ho observed some cabalistic
signals such as winking the right eye, placing the finger
along the nose—a practice wo had previously thought
was alone to statesmen-passing between
aonie of the iuryandthe prisoner. They retired, and
though deliberating nine hours, could not agree. His
Honor went straight for the sympathisers. He said a
juryman would commit deliberate perjury if ho did not
Lt on tho evidence, and was as amenable as a false
witness to prosecution. His Honor remarked that
while saying this he would not look at tho jury, lest his
elanco should lead to identification The jury again
retired, and returned in an hour with a verdict of
guilty. This, to uso a Scriptural phrase, is going in a
docker! ’* .
—There is a story—and a true ono—about Farley,
The well-known baritone, that comes from Gympie (Q ).
At the time when he was accompanying Miss Christian
ou her Queensland tour, he stopped for a few days at the
above Northern goldfield. Through part curiosity and
loqL-o he determined to have a look over some of the
d ®“” then so rich on payable gold, and upon the wish
oE ona of the manager he chose the fmithfield mine
* Hr«t triu below. Equipped for the journey, he
in readmess at mouth of the pit-not so much
run d th« MenMstophelos as one would desire-and was
iu ko i„ft«ft P nn into the bucket. With ono hand clasp-
S rot)e i o w down, the other hand above holding
S* miners lamp, his first fears were dispelled when he
tne mmei s i. . , Suddenly the manager cast
hhTeyoa 1 abo\4—awful siffht, but t/ue-Farley holding
the rope like grim death, and his lamp so close to the
rifm that the flame was quietly eating tho shreds, aud
would soon weaken, consequently, the staying power o
wd his crow. Thero was no noise then—but
Sion Out went tho lamp, somebody lost a, hat, aud
ft ever tho heart of Edward Parley was m his inouth
.. fhat time, as bo wondered if the rope would
last until tho bucket reached tho bottom of tho nuuo.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
flfcfctto.the Garonne fetched 4dm
London; portion!) detadea^d..^. .Frozen di .
Orange River, S.A , arrived 3a ioidon m good condi
ti0n....... Irish Land Comauaelmi
appeal to about one-fourth the previous f1^d......«ar
qnis of Lome, Governor-General ot Canada,
England on leave Russia jealous of the trip of
between Austria, Germany, and Italy. Some fears _
a, European rupture Hon. L. Sacyille Wes ,
British Master, sit Washington, enthusiastically re
oeived Lbra dAhdUrtte, High Chancellor, likely to
retire, owing to
confined in England and lre]aM......C^mer c ial treaty
between France and England flSakttleil.—
Blaine, U.S., prohibits Chili from Fem.....
Right Hon. H. Law, member for Londonderry, SllCC ®®£
Lord O’Hagan as Lord Chancellor of I reland-..... Ant
Vivisection Society prosecuting Dr. Femer for_«
licensed experiments on living animals......K
Armenia to be ceded to Russia, in lieu of P°rtj°P, d
Turi'sh -*ar indemnity Representatives of Engianu
and France fail ..to effect any satisfactory
ment with the £orte U the Turkish |Kational debt,
owing to Russia demandiilff the Busso-Turkish wa
debt should be included in any nOW financial Proposi'.
Irish Land Leaguers summoning *he Loudon
police Lord Hartington expresses ttlfl oymwn
that land tenure in England is artificial,
ihse%-*e. He contends that the tenants capital
must he tfcWfrS* without cp-propnetary right—...
Germany anxioils dhtftrt a Qambetta Ministry. ,
disregards Bismarck's ddfftroa Armed lunatic
at White House, Washington i t( ?
be, assassination of President Afthttr.....<Moc
National Bank, Jersey, insolvent; cashier embezzled
over £200,000; arrested Mr. Ford Worth, WO,.
raised to the English Bench London police J»re
i-Hg Land League meetings Unsupported runio
the reJlreifent of Gladstone from political lira-...
Sexton, Land Leader> released from Kilmamham owing
to ill health Sixteen thousand cases before the man
Land Commission; first carfe) fennlted in favour 01
tenant Nihilist laboratory siezedat St. Petersburg....
Judge Prendogast, Wellington, N.#.,
Duckett, for illegally sitting and voting m pe Can£
dian Parliament, fined £15,000 Agitation in Canada
for separation; Press favouring the movement......
Bank, recently failed, lost £2.000.000. A principal bor-
rower arrested Uanlan-Ross match postpone ,
Hanlan-Trickett match unlikely to come oU......i>n-
peaohment French Ministry decided 0n......S
snowstorms in the midland counties, England r
dom of City of Waterfcrd presented to Ddion, M
in recognition of labours land on question New imo
of steamships,ft he Alliance, to be started to carry ™
Su'd passengers between London and Australia, mixing
Adelaide, Melbourne, and Sydney the colonial ports ot
cdil. The' new line the project of some of the leading
shipownCfs i* England. The service probably bo
monthly, the tifnt steamer to Istart early next month.
Tunis sues for peace...... Lon don Daiit News ap-
proves of the arrest of Ts Whiti Letter-carrio ,
county Kerry, murdered Pierce Egan, Laud leaguer,
manifestoes the Irish not to pay rent,.,.,German Social
ists jubilant Nihilist plot to assassinate the Czar dis-
covered and frustrated. Fifty millions still wailing ......
Garfield’s remains removed to a private vault—..ltalian
expedition to South Pole abandoned... s leMth
improving Boat accident Dieppe, France ; thirteen
drowned.” ...First train through bt. Gothard tunnel, on
the Ist November; time of journey. 50 minutes . ..
Young girl at Carlisle, Cumberland, E., condemned to
death for child murder.
11
THE BULLETIN.
November 12, 1881.


Hotels, &c.
Hotels, &o.
ROBINSON’S PITZI
WILLIAM ST
WOOLLOOMOOI
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP A
Is PER BOTTI
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKE
all round.
N.B.—Cockbum’s Grape (FOR 1
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Ame
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table
fitted rooms in th* colony.
POOL EVERT EV:
The compagnoni cate
OF PITT-STREET have m
nouneing to the public, that to ren
want of space to accommodate tht>
Luncheon hour, they have couvi
Banqueting Hall into an addition
which is now open, and where ei
directed to visitors patronising thi
premises.
The Billiard-roora, with a supcri
is under the management of a first-
branch of Catering undertaken, ai
staff of experienced and polite wail
Through continued misropreeou
beg to mention that they are not ii
with any other person, or persona,
SAMUEL PA(
NOW OPEN,
THE
fJiTY Catering
PRES 8 AJ
JjIALLON’S
J. T. FALLON’S in asking pn
WINES, and to the awardo gain
intimate that ho holds very large u
and the public may rely upon get
and in almost any quantity.
Central Dm
91 PUT STREET, £
VIRETAED:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY
NEW SOUTH W
These Wines were awarded first
following Exhibitions •
London International
Paris „
Vienna
Philadelphia „
Also at the various Interoolonia
toria New South Wales, Qcee
CLASS, and 2 SHCONI) CL.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBI
WHITE.
Eeisling Aucarot I Shi
Verdeilho Brown Muscat 6m
Tokay | Bui
Champagne, Modtum Dry. (
ICE
iJe
E
milE CITY ICE COMPANY
“*■ ADDITION to their WORK
Manufacture upwards of TEN TO
are prepared to Supply the LUX
PRO ACHING SUMMER, at a I.
For prices, &c.,
Apply to
3 WYNYARD S i ]
OK TO VAB
u
OBE E T BUTC
(Late William L
WINE AND SPIRIT M]
634 GEORGE STI
OPPOSITE TOWN HAL:
Country Orders Receive Pn
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLET
416 GEORGE STI
T
HE A U S T
“HOME" SHU'j
AMERICAN LOCKS
SEWING MAC
EXPRES;
Tobaoconisi
TIN TAG!
T\_H 1
Caution to Store]
ANYONE selling Tobacco with
other than those bearing ou
“CONQUEREE" or “YANI
is infringing our rights, and will
by Law.
We are obliged to give this noth
facfcnrer line l>oou sending out one
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPI
DIXSON AND I
165 TOEK STE
TOBACCO SMC
Note the Abot
J.EVE . TOBACCO
m
JAMES E
No. 149 KING i
(Opposite Theatre Royal St
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars <
Pipes mounted and am
149 KING STRi
Money.
U
NION LOAN AND DISCC
OFFICES: 760 GEORGE STI
3 doors from A. Hordern
Hours—9 to 5
MONEY ADVANCED upon PJ
security, payable by instalments, i
£lO by weekly instalment® c
15 <a ,y. m h
® .t s
25 m H Ct
35 ,« i\ U ba
50 ... , a ,X
And in due proportion np t© j
ITo.
SPECIAL NOTI
To borrowers not able to transac
day, the offices will be open Mondi
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET,
3 doors from A. Herder
rpo
SMALL FREEHOLD A
PROPRIJOTOB
- MONET LENT on mortcrara ni
m
L.'-'i
f.
ir
3S
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEP
MERCHANT!
YIRGOE, SOnTaND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
n
QRKP
It is of the utmost importance t
bottle should bo carefully compan
are being imported into New St
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevei
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISK’V
other brands, when thoy will flu
least 10 per cent, in favour of I
WHISKY.
YIRGOE* SON,"AND
AGENTS.
Jp MARTIN
AUSTRALIAN WINE M
AND BEER BOX'
105 PITT stee:
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s
ALBUEY WIN;
RED. •
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUNTEE RIVER 1
Claret
Lambrusoat
POET MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUA!
AND CASE
The Celebrated
f a
; • ■ V ’ '
I
WORVS
The Name of M. MOSS & 00.
every Genuine Bottle.
IT is not the clearness or conditi
Ale that preserves this bran
nu tion. Common bitter crude boei
but no other brand has the same a
i , the fulness on the palate, ai
qualities of the Ball Do? Alo. C
fore cautioned against traders wh
extra profit represent the commoi
equal in quality to the Bull Dog,
CO., Sole Agents.
12
November 12, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Less than two years ago a large party who had
held a private picnic at Pearl Bay were attacked iust ns
they were embarking on their steamer for home bv•,
mob of half-drunheu lanikins, who bad wa ked’fr. n
Manly, having lost the boat. The most abominable
language was used, and the larrikins forced their wav on
board. It was only with the greatest difficulty thev
were repulsed by the party, who « ere under the disad
vantage of having ladies with them. Serious bruise*
a at black eyes were plentiful, but the crowning niece of
lawlessness was taking the captain ot the steamer
whom they overpowered on shore, binding him with
o ran, gagging him, aim planting him lehindaiock
Ue was missed just as the steamer wav starting ai d
searched for. Yet these larrrikins weie never arose
cutod They were brought up, but after two remands
discharged for want of a prosecutor. Wo don't
s\y ho was either “ squared" or threatened. but hu
didu t appea \ u
Am. r can Waltham Watches, awarded two firs'
prizes Mil bourne International Exhibition 8»i
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches rece vod
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of r icing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Brighton Park (Vic ) November 12.
Wyndham (Vic.) Eovember 19.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November ’23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24
Man umbidgoe Spring Meetiug November 23, 24, 25.
P. Augusta and Flinders J.C. (5.A.)...N ivember 21, 29.
Dunedin (N.Z.) J C. Spring Meeting. ..Nov. 80, Dec. 1.
Wellington Racing Club (N.Z.) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 39
Cootamundra December 1. 2.
Oatnarn (N.Z ) J.C Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December S, 9.
Tasmanian J.C December 19.
B(Ub«r-t Amateur Turf Club December 19.
Queensland December 19.
Hamilton (Vic.) December 14, 15.
Wllliarastown (Vic.) December 24.
Baimsdale (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Warialda J.C. Annual Doccrub-r.
A.J.C. Summer Meetiug December 26.
Mudgce December 20.
Dcuiliquiu December 26,
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 28,
Sydney Turf Club December 31,
Kensington Park (Vic ) December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Doc. 26 ; Jan. 1, 2.
V.R.C. Champion January 1.
Tatteraall’s (Sydney) January 1.
Forbes January 2
Glen luues January 2, 3.
Broulee... January 26 and 27.
Now England J C Jnnunrr 26, 27.
Tasmanian Jockey Club,. February It, 15, aud 16.
I uverell ...February 17, 18.
■J’asmaniau Tnrf Club February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z ) Autumn Meeting... Feb. 23,24,25 —1882.
Wanganui (N Z.) Autumn Mooting ....Mar. 11, 12 —1882.
Albury March 16,17.
AQUATICS.
Victoria Rewiug Club November 12
North Shore Rowing Club Regatta November 19.
Trickett v. Haulun November 22.
Seuth Australian Araatonr Rowing Associa-
tion Rzgatta December 17.
Uoldaworkh, Qardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
Raymond Terrace Regatta December 26.
Newcastle Auuual Regatta January 1.
PEDE3TRIANISM.
Sheffield Handicap, Norwood Park November 12, 14.
St. Kilda College Sports, Association Ground... Nov. 21.
CRICK ST.
All England v. Sydney December 9. 10. 13.
All England v. Victoria December 16, 17, 19.
Intercolonial, at Melbourne December 2 4, 2 i, 27.
Ballarat Cricket Club December 27.
Holdaworth-Gardvne Cup matches:—Albert v.
University. Nov. 12. Nov. 19, Nov. 26, 1881. Order of
matches to follow:—Warwick v. Carlton, Albert v.
Carlton, Warwick v. University, Carlton v. University.
Albert v. Warwick, Warwick v. Canton, Albert v.
Carlton, Albert v. University, Warwick v. University.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC ME MS.
First King’s figure this year is 40 guineas.
Joe Thompson won .£ll,OOO on the Melbourne
Cup.
A Rowing and Sailing Club is to bo inaugurated
at Manly.
Do tbe big batting scores of the season mean
poor bowling talent ?
The Plattsburg and Wallsend Racing Club has
been re-inaugurated.
A fair sum of money was won about Sweetmeat
getting a place in the Cup.
The entries for the North Shore regatta closed
On the 12th instant (Friday).
Immense interest is taken all over the United
States in English turf matters.
We have come across only one man as yet that
didn’t think Zulu would win the Gup.
The Albury Racing Club have decided to hold
their meeting in the middle ef March.
Tho handballers have decided to form an asso-
ciation. Meeting, Friday, 11th instant.
The match at Adelong, between tho Turaut and
Adelong club.- , resulted in a wiu for the latter.
The members of the Sydney Gymnasium pre-
sented a gold medal to Professor VYilliain Miller.
A storekeeper at Travalyon (Vio) had two
tickets iu Miller s sweeps, and ho drew Zulu and the
Czar.
Assenheim, in the six days, tournament at
Newcastle, covered 150 miles in 43 hoars before he
retired.
130 live trout wore taken from the hatching
borei at Bowe ifols and placed la the Nepean River, near
the bridge at Peurith.
A bicyclist, named Vauston, travailed last week
from Ad.'tai le to Wilmington, 210 miles, iu 24 hoars,
exclusive of stoppages.
A bookmaking firm is stated to have laid .£lOl5
avaiiist Zulu. Aud yet they show a Oalauoo of over
£39,009 ou thoir books.
The third money in the late Caulfield Cup haa
been paid to Mr. T. Ivory, the owner of the declared
w nner. Master Aveuel.
Two American yachts, the Dauntless and Norse-
mnu, are matched for £5 *9; 72 miles of ocean running,
and the race to bo made in nine hours.
The V.R.C. arranged for the issue of tickets for
railway aud grandstand at the Spencer-street Railway
Station. Their Cup day’s share was £l3OO.
Chifney, the jockey, who rode P.G. in the Hurdle
Rice at the V. R C. meeting, was severely injured by a
fall. He was uuconscioui tor several hours.
The Melbourne detectives arrested nine of the
under aud-over fraternity, who were endeavouring to
turn au honest penny at the V.R.C. meeting.
Nominations for the Temora Races. December
8 and 9. — T J.C Handicap 22, Town Plate 20, Two-year-
old Stakes 5, Miners’ Handicap Hurdle Race 9.
The match for the Cleeland Challenge Cup be-
tween the South Melbourne and Richmond Chios re-
sulted in a win for South Melbourne by four wickets.
A cricket curiosity. In August, au eleven of
B.istord, Notts., played tho West Hallam Club, and
scored one, that run being a bye! Good-bye to Notti.
Newington College v University second, on the
Oval, on Wednesday, 2nd instant. Scores; N.C.C. 100
(Murray 36, J. Cleeve 17, Palmer 17); U.C.C. 41 (Hy-
gate 15).
It is anticipated that the Tamworth pigeon
match will be a great success. Nominations aro being
received from all the colonies. Nominations closed on
tho 9th of November.
By cable, we learn that the match arranged
between Hmlan and Ross will probably be postponed.
It is uncertain, also, whether the match arranged
between Hanlan and Trickctt will take place.
The boating season at Lyttelton, Dunedin, and
Kaiupoi (New Zealand) Las been opened by processions
of boats, and Mr. John Marshall has presented to the
Auckland Rowing Club five silver cups for presenta-
tion.
The ship Ethiopian, from London for Melbourne,
brought a pretty little cutter yacht, tho Condor, which
is reported to have won several prizes in old country
waters.
There was a 20-milo race between two steam
yachts at New York, recently, for £l9OO. Tho Lancet
beat the Sport by 3 30, doing the distance in Ih. 31m,
395.
Trophies are being presented from all sides, and
secretaries of cricket clubs are bothered in deciding
what to give them lor If a cricketer does any great
thmg this season, he will have a trinket to counnemo
rate it.
At Terowie (S A.), races on the 27th nit., the
princpal event was the Terowie Handicap of £7O, three
miles, won by the Panic mare. Mesalliance, who carried
SstlOlb; Brigand (7sb 41b), being sec md, and Neptune
(Ost 71b), third.
Before Chifney mounted P.G for the Hurdle
Race, he kissed bis little son. A bystander remarked
that such an incident was the fore runner of an accident.
P.G. fell, and Chifuey was brought iuseusiule to the
saddling paddock.
The mile walking match, for a trophy, on the
Newcastle Cricket Ground, between H. Stoddard and
A. Gmge, was declared void, both competitors having
been cautioned several times, and tho umpires could
not agree iu their decision.
The postponed events of the Double B ly regatta
came off ou Saturday with the foil -wing results :
Maiden oarsmen, pulling four oars in string-test gigs, M.
R.C. No 1, Hobblewhite, Pi zgeruld, Crodl, VVhalau
(strob'd, 1. Skiffs uniter canvas, Dcsdomona I.
A very large number of entries have been re-
ceived for the Intercolonial Rillo Match under the aus-
pices of tho Victorian Rifle Association. Tho eompo-
titioa is expected to bo very keen, as the list of entries
includes the crack shots of the various colonies.
At the monthly mooting of tho Sydney Amateur
Sailing Club, the races for 18, 19, and 22 feel boats were
fixed for Saturday, November 19; tboso for 16-f«et
boats and mbwidlaneoug classes, for Saturday, Novem-
ber 26; and thoeo for 21-feot boats for December 23.
The North Shore Rowing Club have decided to
close the senior outrigger race to other clubs, so as to
ensure local entries. It will be a good time for amateur
rowing when club regattas can bo conducted with local
entries only. Atpieseut, tho same entries appear, no
matter what club’s regatta it may bo.
Throe royally-bred yearlings from the stud of
Mr August Bolmont were recently shipped from New
York to London to the order of one of tho Rothschilds.
They are described as the three best horses yet sent
from America, and are expected to appropriate in due
time the big prizes of tho English turf.
The following is tho professional team of
cricketers which Loft England en route to America, aud
are now on tho way to Australia:—Shaw, Barlow,
Bates, Emmett, Ulyett, Selby, Scotton, Pilling, Poato,
Midwinter. Shrewsbury did not go with the team, but
is now on his way to Mdbouruo by one of the Orient
steamers.
Mata will positively run at tho next Dunedin
races, and his full (or principal, at auy rate) owner is
now one of the mo-t popular and straightforward men
oa the Otago turf —though not »ue of tho luckiest.
The horse has thoroughly recovered from the wasting
favar ha had been suffering under, and is nearly like
himself again.
The New York Times thinks that baseball,
now so popular in America, will go out altogether, ana
that cricket will become as popular there in the course
of a few years as it is in England, and they will be con-
tented to play a game worth playing, even if it is Eng-
lish in its origin, without trying to establish a national
game ot their own.
The Y.R.C. took especial care to prevent the dog
nuisance, and yet Wheatear, who was the best in
Esmond's stable, was upset by a dog, and he brought
down Suwarrow, whose rider, iDudd), broke his left leg.
The stable did not back Zulu knowing that Wheatear
could beat him. That dog has won more money for the
ring than the best courser of the season.
Joe Bennett, the English billiard champion, and
a friend were thrown out of a trap on the Ist of Septem-
ber, the former having his right leg and left arm broken,
besides being very much bruised and shaken. He was
taken to tho Middlesex Hospital, and after his broken
limbs were set, he was sent home. Though going on all
right, quite three months must elapse before he will be
well enough t« play again.
“ The only satisfactory feature in connection
with the stud sale at Cobham,” says a writer in Vanity
Fair, “ was that poor old Rlair Athol is not to be exiled
iu his old age; for though Frenchman and German bid
hard for him, Mr. Randolph Stewart outstayed them, and
at 1950 guineas, the best racehorse which this generation
has seen, becomes the property of a lady who will take
care that he ends his days in comfort.”
At the annual meeting of the Port Jackson
Swimming Club, his Worship the Mayor was elected
President, and the Aldermen Vice-Presidents. The
following officers were also elected:—Captain, W.
Wynne; secretary, W. F. Corbett; treasurer. F. G. C.
Hanslaw; committee, J. Doughty, W. Parry, T.
Stewart, J. Dynham, W. F. Kloster. A programme for
the Spring matches, to be held on December 3, was
submitted and agreed to.
The victories of Zulu and Darebin show what an
uncertain index ot the probabilities betting is. While
these horses were both daily chronicled as doing good
work, loads of money wore popped on to fancy horses,
and the sporting writers generally overlooked them in
the consideration for the final tips. Those who won by
Zulu mostly backed him at our last Rand wick meeting,
when he ran so well. Tho impossibility to hedge
profitably caused them to keep their wagers.
“ iEgles,” of tho Australasian, wont to the
Melbourne Cup, and we dun’t think his stylo of report
could be beaten much. He says : —“The arrangements
for the enjoyment of the public wore perfect; I couldn’t
guess the numbers present, within 09,099, or so; and,
as regards tbe horses, X am convinced that some ran
faster than others.” Now, that’s the sorb of writer
we’ve been looking for this long while. Wonder it he’d
come and be “ our special reporter ” at RandwLk.
Separation Day, at Brisbane, is to be celebrated
by n grand regatta. The principal event is a sculling
race, the prize to be £199 should two first-class oarsmen
from the other colonies enter. Among the events in
the programme, as it now stands, are a four-oared
amateur race for string-test gigs, clinker outriggers, or
boats to be classed as such by the committee; a
champiou four-oared race; a junior pair-oared race,
pulling a pair of sculls ; a junior double scull race ; and
races for sailing boats.
The race for the professional sculls, ab the
Maidstone (Englanfi) regatta, on August 22, was won
by R. W. Boyd ; C. I‘helps, second. The race was
rowed in heats with the following result: —First heat,
C. Phelps; row over. Second, H. Claspjr beat L.
Gibson. Third, R. W. Boyd beat J. Largar. Second
round, first heat, Boyd beat Clasper. This was tho
best heat of the day ; both scullers received an ovation
on their return to the boat-house. Sooond, Phelps
rowed over. Third, Boyd beat Phelps.
Sammy Jones is worthy of mention as a cricketer
who has made wonderful improvement. He is now,
perhaps, oar best all-round cricketer, being first-class
in every department of the game. He scored 151 for
one innings in the late Cup match. His bowling is up
to his batting standard, and as a field ho is not to ba
excelled. He is quite a vonth, and his exuberance and
enthusiasm for the game has made him a favourite
amongst cricketers. Oa the Park, he is a demi-god.
He is also in the front rank of our best Rugby foot-
ballers.
A boat race, for a dozen of beer, took p’aee
lately on the Parramatta River, causing a deal of
amusement and excitement. The competitors were a
retired leather merchant (now a publican) and a
dispenser of drugs at a public institution. Before the
start, a pannikin was tied to the leather merchant’s
boat, which impede! his progress, aud lost him the
race. Not satisfied with his defeat, he challenged his
victor for another race for more beer, the boats to
be changed. The challenge was accepted, the boats
were changed, and so was the pannikin, aud again the
dispenser wou. The vanquished merchant is still not
satisfied, aud intends to again challenge the druggist,
man and beer to be found at his training quarters, the
“ Lily of St. Leonards.” The druggist has accepted
the challenge, and he and the pannikin aro undergoing
severe training few the event.
Darobin, the first favourite for the Melbourne
Cup, after his Derby victory on Saturday, nearly lost
his chance of starting for it at nil througn tho recent
alterations in tbe matter ot final payment, which have
proved very confusing. Had it not been for the acoi-
den’al presence at the Y.K.C Secretariat ot a«port-
mg scribe, who is a personal tri md of tho stable -
and chanced to ask whether the money had beau duly
paid the list would have been posted a few minute i
later without tbe “ blue ribbon ’’ winner, and then
what a “ruction ’ there’d have been.
The match, Carlton v University, for the Holda-
worth-Girdyue Cup, was terminated ou Weduesday,
the 2nd instaut, wh *u the latter cub won by 10 wickets.
The Carlton se -ond innings closed for 151, Davis in-
creasing his score by some fine batting to 43. The
University had to obtain 19 to wiu, which w.is done
witli the loss of two wickets—Teeoe 13, Garrett, 12.
B. Jones played a fine not-out innings for 51, and Allen
was the other scorer with 16 (not out). The Carlton
fielding and bowling wt-re very good. Geary, remember -
mg Hornby’s co iqi against Allen, tried an over of under-
arms without avail
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club have issued
the programme for tbeir Boxing Day meeting, no lass
than seven well diversified events being arranged for
the delectation of racing folks aud holiday vis-tors.
The items are Selling Race of 59 sovs., Hurdle Race of
75 sovs., Juvenile Stakes of 190 sovs., Welter Handicap
of 59 sovs , Christmas Handicap of 2)0 sovs.. Steeple-
ch-isa of 75 sovs., aud Malvern Handicap of 190 sovs.
This “card” is very liberal, and well worthy of
owners bearing in mind, when deciding for which to
nominate amongst the numerous gatherings advertised
to take place about tho same date.
At Chiddingfold, in Sussex, in 137.5, two elevens
placed a match. Tho eleven which wont first to tho
wickets scored 27. They then put their opponents in,
and got them all out for a total of 2. It was agreed
that the latter should follow their innings. They did
this, aud scored 29, thus leaving their adversaries
winners by au innings and 5 runs. The match having
occupied so short a time a return was begun. The pre-
viously vanquished eleven scored only 9 and 13 against
72 made by their opponents iu a single innings. Thus
two matches were played in one day, and the beaten
eleven scored in four innings tho gigantic total of 341
An intercolonial pigeon-shooting' match, between
teams representing Victoria and New South Wales, was
shot at Brighton Park, Victoria, on Friday. The
stakes were £199 aside, each team having five repre-
sent dives, 15 birds each. The scores were only
moderate, a «troug wind blowing behind the shooters.
Sjdnoy took the lead at the start and was never headed,
winning by 7 birds, the scon s being :—Sydney, 60
killed, against Victoria 53. Hamilton, of Sydney,
killed 14. Hill 13, Payton 12, Gmnon 11, Wes;on 10
Tho highest scorer for Victoria was Mack, with 13
Payton, who won a handicap on Wednesday, commenced
by killing 9, but afterwards missed 3 in succession, 2 of
which, however, fell dead out of bounds.
Tho following rules wore lately adopted hy the
Victorian Racing Club “ That the rules of the V.R.C.,
shall apply to all meetings held under the control of
the V.R.C., or advertised in the ‘Official Racing
Calender’ to bo held subject to the V.R.C. rule. If
a horse run at any meeting iu Victoria which is not so
advertised, or whore the said rules shall not be in force,
the said horse shall by perpetually disqualified from
running upon tho Flemingtou course, unless the com-
mittee may see just aud sufficient reason to remove
such disqualification. The committee of the V. £.C.
may, at thoir discretion, prohibit the advertisement of
any meeting in the ‘ Official Racing Calender.’ This
rule shall be enforced, from tho Ist January 1882.”
Another Australian cloven is being formed for an
English tour next season. Evans declines to go, but
Massio is likely to join the team, so that a treat is in
store for the English pavilion-haunters. Ho is now
playing better than ever. His 55 against the Warwicks,
on Saturday, was a marvellous exhibition of fast scoring
and clean hitting. Expunging the weak names in the
last eleven, aud substituting Massie, M'SUane, Horan,
C. Bannorman, 3. Jones, D Gregory, Edwards stop,
who is to be put out? Au eleven like the following
would make Euglieh cricket hum:—Allan, A. Banner-
man, Blackham, Evans. Horan, S. Jones, Massie,
M‘Donnell, M'Shane, Murdoch, and Spofforth, with
Edwards ns twelfth. This includes only four of the
eleven who played so well against tho All-England
Eleven in London.
The V.R.C. Spring meeting, third day :—Hurdle
Race, about three miles : Mr. R. Howie’s b h Lothair,
4 years, 1 j Mr. J. Winter’s b h Dhurriaghile, 5 years,
2; Mr. T. Coffev’s hr h Albyn, 6 years, 3 ; time, 5 mins,
39 secs. Royal Park Stakes, two miles : Mr. T. Ivory’s
Sweetmeat, 6 years, walked over. Flying Stakes, J mile:
Mr. E. De Mestre’s bl c Navigator, 2 years, 1; Hon. J.
White’s oh c Morpeth, 2 years, 8: Mr. 3. Knight’s b o
Mistake, 2 years, 3 i flrne, 1 min. 16| secs. Spring
Handicap, ij mile i Mr. R. Moore’s b h Pawnbroker, 5
years, ! j Mr. 11. Fisher’s ch h Courtenay, 6 years, 2:
Mr. E. D« Mestre’a ch h Guinea, 4 years, 3 • time, 2
mins. 10! sees. The Oaks Stakes, H mile: Mr. W.
Branch’s b f Roval Maid, 1; Mr. A. K. Finlay’s Tour-
msline, 2; Mr. J. Wblttltigham’s Declaration, 81 time,
2 mins. 44 secs. The Veteran Stakes, 1J mile: Mr.
J. Harpur’s g m Josephine, 4 years, 1 ; Mr. F. Went-
worth’s ch h Saunteror, aged, 2 j Hon. J. White’s hr h
Martindale, aged, 8) time, 2mlns. 38i sees.
The cricket match at Singleton, between a local
eleven and the dramatic company on costume, proved a
great attraction, and quite a large company of visitors
attended. Mr. Savage, as circus clown, was very
amusing. His batting was quite a sensation, tho bat
being about six inches wide, and painted to suit i,; s
character. It did not stand tho brnnt of his vigorous
strokes, however, for catching a ball a fair dtivlnr hit,
th* ' at was split from point to haa 110, and half of it
went whizziug up to the other wiokot. The clown’s
capers upon realizing the catastrophe—which appar-
ently broke upon his mind slowly—were very entertain-
ing to tho juvenile spectators. Tho Turkish peasant
female was impersonated by a stalwart broad-shouldered
vonth in red petticoats, wide knickerbockers, and
incongruous “ elastic sides ’’ and millinery to corros-
pond. Tho scoring was. of course, not a matter of
much importance ; tho actors, impeded by petticoats
and other flying rig, could not bo expected to do much
at batting—and they didn’t.
The match between the Albert and Warwick
clubs, for the Holdsworth-Gardyne trophy, concluded
ou Saturday in favour ot the former cluti. The War-
wicks in their second innings made 162, to which E.
Gregory contributed 48 in something like his old style i
Oatlay played a flue-uot out innings for 28, a id O.g Ivie
a good h-ttlng innings for 20. The Alberts required
141 to wiu, and the runs were made with the loss of
three wickets Ma sie played a groat innings for 55.
Off the first over he scored four fours, aud commenced
the second with another. It was tho finest innings ever
played ou the ground, audjo-ie that only Massie could
play. Moses played a splendid not-mb innings for 54
entitling him to some cousideratiou by the selection
committee. A. Gregory was dismissed without scoring
Oatley distinguishing himself by a splendid catch at
point. D Gregory, who is batting his best this season
was wall caught by Ogilvio after scoring in. Fletcher
played a vigorous not-out innings for 18. Bigg ma d« a
splendid catch off Massie. 3
We are not alone in our sporting “ eccentrici-
ties.” Here is a line from a sportiner correspondent
who has been doing tho Saratoga (U.S,) annual meet!
ing “ I have been on these grounds six weeks, I have
seen more than 139 races run, and, if tho half I hear
be true, every one of them have either been “ fixed ’’ in
advance, or the judges and stewards have connived at
and participated iu tho grossest and most pitent
swindles and frauds If certain hangers-on about the
pool-stand and betting-ground, and who make “the
races” a calling from which comes their duly bread
are to be credited, jookeyg have pulled horses, “ the
plunger” (there is but one) has “stiffened,” the
trainers have stuff 'd and watered them in the stables
tho starter has loft them at the post, “ the man from
Ballston” has anchored tbora with weight, and
finally, tho judges have made vicious and wicked de!
ciaions Irom tie stanl. I have, man and boy, been
about race-tracks so long that my memory begins to
wander when I attempt to recall my earliest effort to
“ pick a winner.” Since then I have seen racing iu the
East and tho West, in tho North and the South, every-
where I have met that always prominent character
known to all race-goers by that apt and significant
appellation, “tho Kicker.” and is now and then de-
nominated “the Squealer,” but it was loft to the year
1891 to bring out the greatest swarm of these infamous
posts that has evor appeared on the American turf ”
V.R.C. Spring mooting, fourth (IvyPlom-
mmgtoa Stakes : SMit.ude 1, J ick in-the-Oreou 2, Bas-
samoS. Mures Produce btakjs, 1} mile: Darebin 1,
Monmouth 2 Umm.tioa 3; time. 2 mins. 12 secs!
V.K O. Handicap, If mile Creswick 1, Sanuterer 2.
Guinea 3 ; nine, 3 unus. 7f secs. Steeplechase : Prima
Doaua 1, Trumpeter 2, Himalaya 3. Canterbury Plate,
ft miles: Wellington 1, Sweetmeat 2, Santa Claus 3 •
time. 4 mi us 7 secs. Free H tndicap, U mile : Allayed
1, Waxy 1 ill a Moor 3 ; time, 2 mius. 49* secs.
The “added mousy" of the next meeting of the
Jerome Pars (U.S.) rue e meeting is about £700) Tbe
Cl fo . 6Te ? 6 , 13 Omnibus Stakes, for yearlings of
oVTIe' . 0 ich for BfcarterH - wuh £2lOO added, of which
LIOOO to the winner, £l9O to the secon ; £lOO to the
nominator of the winner; and £2OO to the no uina-
tor of the second; the engagement to follow
ownership of the horse without written transfer-
horses may be nominated by persons not their
owners, but if a horse be nominated by more than one
person, the owner to bo entitled to his nomination, and
the nomination of others to have precedence iu the
order in which the entries may be opened; unpaid for-
feits, or death of nominator, not to disqualify a horse,
if its owner at the time of starting be qualified;
entrance £o each, to go to the racing fuud, and to be
paid at the tune of na niug; entrance money to be re-
turned if the nomination bo excluded by prior entry ;
winners of any three-year-old stake (handicaps excepted)
°f ° r £ T’o to carry 5!b., of two or more such
stakes 71b. extra; malleus at starting alio wedslb.; one
mile and a half.
Newton’s Athletic Hull, Little Collins-st., Molb.
was thoroughly filled ou {Saturday y Ootobor X'J. Tlio
attendance included representative sporting men from
all the neighbouring colonies, and numerous public
people. Proceedings were opened by Newton aud
MiinJr. who went in for a short and merry bout. They
were followed by Con Murphy aud Greers, who afforded
those present some good sport. Then came the item
of the programme, a glove contest of one hour, between
Nathan and Graham. The latter is an American, and
is noted as a champion club thrower. The men sparred
three minutes and rested one. The contest was a tough
one, for though Graham was the heavier man, Nathan
was the more skilful. Still the work was close and
exciting, and when Graham deli vered the only knock-
down blow of the evening, his friends were confident.
Nathan, however, was allowed ten seconds, and at tho
call was able to come to time. From that out Nathan
was more wary, and his superior science so manifested
itself that just at the finish Graham was completely
knocked out of it. Graham is a very good man, and
notwithstanding his defeat by Nathan, is not to bo
despised.
THE FASHIONS.
[BY “THE MAN MILLINER”]
Moir<s is all the rage at homo. It blends well with
broclifi, chenille, or piush, three materials which will
ba the rage for the coming autumn “ Minerva’s eye,”
is the name ot a new shaUo of blue; it is also known as
iron-blue; it is a mixture of violet and blue The rage
for everything pink is so great in London and Paris
that the supply is not near equal to the demand
When flowers are worn in the hair for evening, the
latest fashion is to doc them all over the head, the
favourite ones for this style are, pansies, marguerites,
or dog-roses The new ribbons ore either moire,
chenille, or plush. Some are shown embroidered with
seed pearls forming a pattern of oriental design
Laces are more in vogue than ever; the list of now
makes has now become quite large, and important,
Breton, Languedoc, point d’Esprit, Vermicelli, Mire?
court and tne now Barcelona or Spanish in black
cream, and ivory white A. pretty caprice for brighten-
ing up black drosses, or to add to light toilets, is aset
consiatiug of a fan, a pocket for the handkerchief, and
a NCadicis coilaratce made of sorah or satin, trimmed
with Spanish blonde of the same colour, and bunches
of dark red roses, 'io wear wuh white drosses pale
blue or ivory, wuite i-. used witu clusters of yellow
roses. The fan should be trimmed with the same
coloured lace an I roses as the collarette aud pocket......
Crinolettes are fast gaining favour “ Patience ” 'is
the last thing in hats for ladies The loaders of
fashion at homo are copying their costumes from those
woru in the opera of “ Patiouce.’’ Alatefashjon book,
in speaking of the grace aud beauty of those charmingly
becoming dresses, says they are quite too trausceudantly
lovely to become the rage...,.,A coarse straw hat,
poke shape, trimmed with cream Madras muslin, and
feathers, with a huge sun flower coquettishly arraytd,
nestling in the feathers, and tipping on the hair, is now
the rage with the hon-ton English twoed dresses
made quite plain, ate fast taking favour in England and
on the Continent Some of the new sateens are quite
too awfully nice. One with pansies on a grey ground
and one with apple blossom on a fawn ground, are
highly artistic Ribbon sashes are quite a novelty.
The ribbon used must be 18 inches in wdoh, tied
round the hips in a mammoth bow on left side or’bad .
The favourite ribbons for those sashes are shot in ai.
the new colours with plain satin back. Somo are
ribbed with moire and plusu stripes alternately; also
plaid ribbons are in great demand both for millinery
aud dress trimmings Eoomania jewellery is still tl e
rage—some are dainty and fanciful; heads of dogs
cats, mice, elephants, owls, and birds claws, are seen
both in real and Imitation for personal adornment as
well as for millinery .It is not considered bad taste
to wear violet and red. Some of the new combinations
are rather extreme. The new peach harmonizes wed
with ciel blue or lavender ; torn cotta and myrth
coral and tobacco brown, peach and dove, aie all con-
sidered happy blendings, from an artistic point of via«.
“ Painting the lily ” has again become fashionable*
Ladies have again to “making tbjmsolves up. '*
Powder, paint, and patches, are coming on o more into
fashion. “ The real sources of woman’s beauty are gr, <5O
and activity of the soql, energy aud vivacity of sphi,
that give animation and charm to her organization." ’
A charming bonnet, by last mail, was one compjjei of
all steel : the crown was done like armour, scaled
in cut steel spangks, the front of steel lace, with a
scarf of the Tew .poa U-coloured moiydlleax, formi g
strings, nearly two inches in width, fimsiie 1 off i*
horseshoes in cut steel; its price was only livo guineas
Large black laco hats—some ab urlly large—are
much in vogue in France and America Small forties
are most in vogue in England ; some aro in shape tiLo a
jockey’s cap, and are very becoming For a garden
party or a fete dress, nothing is more becoming to a
young lady than white—pure white, without any creamy
tinge—and the material opaque E egauts are ail
adopting the (esthetic style of dross ; every gown made
extremely plain and of tne richest material. Mist of
the (esthetic dnsies are copied from Rapbftd's pictures
in the palace of the Louvre. To dress iu true teuhetic
fashion a lady must look like one of the angels yon see
in pictures of the great masters—“ but without the
win? 9-” Black, disappearing to a groat intent from
out-door apparel, has been very much worn in the
evening; the favourite materials fir evening dresses
are black merveilleux an I Spanish lace; the skiits are
abundantly trimmed with sun,llQwers of a vivid vellow
aud sqme on the right shoulder; the hair should be
worn frizzed and quite unadorned, except a few peacock
eyes dotted hero and there auyhow Flowers are not
worn in the hair now, but an abundance ot them are
worn on the body of the dress aud skirt; the lata
books from Baris say a toilet is not complete without a
lavish bouquet of flowers at the waistband.
13
THE BULLETIN.
November 12, 1881.


SOCIAL.
There was a large attendance at the Ivanhoo O.C.
concert, in Glammis Hall, on the Ist instant. Mr. E. S,
Mackenzie, a youthful musician, gave several selections
on the piano, and also an original waltz of his own,
prepared for the occasion. No doubt he was gratified
by the large “bokays” which some of his own sex
threw at him by way of reward. Mr. M'Mahon’s
Electric Polka solo on the cornet was well received,
and the St. Mark’s Handbell Eingers tinkled prettily.
The ladies' costumes (though not mentioned in the
programme) were not the least noticeable feature in
the entertainment, an assthetical dress from Darling
Point being conspicuous. The music was rather spun
out; and when a gentleman who is very young is set
down for several solos on the pianoforte in one evening,
ho ought to see that they don’t average more than nine-
teen pages each.
• * «
The managing assistant in one of the principal
stores on the Richmond River is shortly to be married
to the charming daughter of a largo storekeeper “of
that ilk”—a man chosen of the people for municipal
honours.
* * *
It is not often that the S. M. Herald goes out-
side the limits of prosaic fact, but the “ specials ” who
were sent to do the Cup at Melbourne, last week, cer-
tainly seem to have taken advantage of being off the apron
strings to indulge in a little flight, just for once, in the
descriptive lino. This is how he, she, or they proceed
to give an idea of the dresses “In a general way, the
colours were soft and bland and tender; and even where
the pitch was high it was pure and well-balanced. Thus
you might note a robe of silver grey flecked with tender
blue ; an autumnal brown, margined with purest prim-
rose; a slumberous myrtle green, relieved with trans-
lucent pink, smiling beneath a veil of creamy lace ; an
utmost azure melting into misty white; flowers every,
where —real, artificial, and painted, but all formulated
into expressive denotements; fabrics—golden, silvered,
and richly bronzed; glowing brocades, softened by
translucent tulle; pinks of all sorts lovingly set off
with marvellously sweet lace; blacks with a single
relief of brightness; whites, with a solitary tint of
deep blue. A red, a drab bag cloak, with a miraculous
straw hat and white feather; and over it a golden roof
of resplendent parasol. A pompadour blue, with prim-
rose offsotts, a far off mountain blue, with flashing steel
bugle trimmings, a sheeny green velvet with tender
light edges ; a lilac glow with tethered leaves of vernal
green ; another radiant green satin with daffodil soften-
ings, a primrose open with daisies powdered thereon ;
a fair white silk with a broad tincture of Veneti m red,
&c. The shoes were of distracting lovelinesd—satin
embroidered, satin painted, satin laced with gold and
silver; and, as there were few trains, but mostly short
dresses, the cunningly worked silken hosen wore ”
But we’d better stop here. The Wollongong man, who
started to describe the local races, hut got all the nags
mixed up with “ a luminous cloud of loveliness that
descended from a four-in-hand," is absolutely coherent
compared with the Herald’s special.
* # #
Wedding shortly at St. John’s, Ashfiold. Wine
and vinegar to be united,
• # •
Mrs. John Kinloch, of Redmyro, gave an en-
joyable garden party on the 2Sth ultimo. There were
over eighty guests present.
« * •
Agony! Amateur Pinafore Opera at Wollon-
gong. Seventeen marriageable girls to take part.
# * *
Miss Caroline Scrivener, daughter of the Mayor
of Liverpool, was married at that place last week, to a
Sydney gentleman, Mr. Dale. There were many friends
present at the church, and the bride’s father enter-
tained a numerous party at the breakfast afterwards.
He also gave a supper to employ 63 and friends in the
evening.
* * «
The Masons (St. Andrew’s Lodge. S.C.) are to
have a soirde dansante, in the Masonic Hall, on Tuesday
next. As Masons are well behaved people, it will bo
good.
• • •
The Parramatta Eowing Club (not yet a year
old) held its first picnic on Tuesday week, at Pearl Bay.
It is not long since the members had a grand ball at
Parramatta, which was better attended than the picnic.
They are starting a gay career; it remains to be seen
whether it will be a long one. The Alathea conveyed
the party down the harbour, and an enjoyable day was
put in.
♦ • •
At a recent wild flower show, prizes were
awarded for the best collection of flowers, ferns, &c.,
and a great number of these were gained by some
young ladies, who returned them and asked for their
value in cash,
• • •
Fashionable marriage at Armidale on All Saints’
Day: Mr. Chard, District Surveyor, to Miss Markham,
an accomplished young lady, who is a great favourite
in that district. The ceremony took place in St. Peter’s
Cathedral; bride dressed in a hand-painted satin dress,
the gift of her sisters. Honeymoon here.
* ♦ •
Chowder Bay, on Saturday, was the scene of a
unique picnic, being that of the employes of Messrs.
Brown and Shaw, printers. As it was the day on which
Guy Fawkes, the prince of sinisters.
So nearly blew up Parliament,
The King, and all his Ministers
tho company indulged in a ” masked carnival,” which
was an excellent way of breaking down the barriers of
reserve, and starting the jollity. Sports, dancing,
dinner, enthusiasm, and then home at dusk.
• • *
Government Printing Office picnic to-day (Satur-
day). As usual, it is not intended for a public picnic,
but for those iu the office and their immediate friends,
who altogether make a large party.
# * *
On Saturday, Mr. H. Smith, tho representative
in Sydney of the American firm of H. P. Gregory and Co.,
entertained a number of friends at a picnic to Pearl
Bay, to celebrate his silver, or tin, wedding. The party
proceeded from Circular Quay by steamer, and on
arrival at the grounds, diverted themselves with dancing
and games. An excellent luncheon was provided by
Compagnoni and Co. Mr. John Woods occupied the
chair, and in a few well-chosen sentences referred to
the occasion for the gathering, and proposed the health
of the decimal bride and bridegroom. Mr. Smith, in
reply, twisted a napkin with great vigour. A few other
toasts followed, and dancing was then resumed till the
steamer’s whistle gave tho signal for departure.
» * *
A marriage has been arranged between a gentle-
man, popularly known “in Society" as the son of a
well-known ship chandler in Pitt-streot, and the
daughter of a well-known and (lately) prominent
M.L.A.
m » *
A very successful and enjoyable bazaar is being
held during the week, in aid of St, Vincent’s Hospital,
at Darlinghnrst Hall. Every care has been taken to
ensure its success, and tho hall is crowded nightly with
a busy assemblage of youth and beauty. The stalls,
under the care of charitable and well-known ladies, are
loaded with a bewildering .variety of objects of vertu
and value.
• * *
A fashionable wedding was celebrated in
Mudgee last week, and was, without doubt, the prettiest
one the townspeople have seen. The bride, who was
most charmingly attired iu white satin profusedly
trimmed with deep Honiton lace, and attended by seven
bridesmaids, was Miss Lester, of Mudgee, and the
bridegroom, Mr. A. C. Hinder, of Lithgow, formerly of
Mudgee. The chief bridesmaid wore cream, trimmed
with cardinal satin and lace; two others wore white,
t rimmed with blue satin and lace; two others, white
•rimmed with pink satin and lace ; and yet two others,
vhite, trimmed with heliotrope satin and lace. The
church, which was beautifully decorated with wreaths
•nd festoons, was well filled with relatives and friends
,f the bride; and the lovely dresses of the bridesmaids
id guests, together with the handsome decorations,
*-)med a picture which will not soon be forgotten by
those who witnessed it. After the splendid dejeuner,
which was held at the residence of the bride, the happy
pair started en route for Tasmania via Melbourne.
The presents were numerous and costly—that of the
bridegroom to the bride beiug a handsome gold neglige
and locket, and a splendid silver bracelet inlaid with
gold. A similar bracelet was also his gift to the chief
bridesmaid.
• • •
Custom sanctions, on a Melbourne Cup Day,
combinations, colours, and styles, that would bo in-
admissible on any ordinary occasion. But on that day
everything is gay and full of warm colouring ; the
fettered imagination finds full play for its fancies, and
long concealed desires for audacious toilettes can ha
gratified. Criticism is tolerant, the forbidden is al-
lowed, and the extravagant is received as common-
place. Extravagant and bizarre costumes were not,
however, in any predominance last week. Nearly all
the dresses were short, trains being quite exceptional.
One lady, however, gained celebrity by the length of
train which she laboriously trailed over the lawn. The
dress was of rich dark green satin in front, and the
train of black brocaded velvet and satin quite three
yards long. A woman requires a considerable amount
of courage to wear a costume like that. One lady wore
an elegant short costume of magnificent brocade, in
goli and various lines, richly trimmed with gold passe-
menterie and fringe, of unique design, being oa one
side a princess and pompadour combined, and on the
other a short bodice with a gold band from under the
arm. The under-skirt was of heliotrope satin, trimmed
kilting and bonillone, with scarf of brocade-edged gold
passementerie, bonnet to match, A graceful figure
was adorned in a short dress of myrtle moire and satin,
tight-fitting satin bodice, with a round point back
and front, finished at edge with rich embroidery
to match. Skirt of striped moire closely kilted,
having a satin scarf negligently arranged from under
the bodice, which had a very charming effect. A
Princess costume with demi-train in rich prune bro-
cade, mixed with satin de Lyon of same shade, grace-
fully draped with three sashes oa one side, each sash
finished with lace, the other side of the skirt having
frillings of black Spanish lace with jet drops at inter-
vals. The bodice was Mother Hubbard, and the irre-
gularity of the skirt was both original and pleasing in
appearance. A stately woman wore a bodice of dove
and cardinal brocade and satin, the train opening over
a rich skirt of cardinal shirred satin on one side, and a
rich drapery of duchess point on the other. A lady
dressed in a startling costume of scarlet silk, relieved
(or intensified) with trimmings of intense yellow, at-
tracted general attention; while a woll-knowa actress,
who some time ago bought some handsome dresses from
the Victorian court of the late exhibition, wore one of
the simply prettv costumes of the day; the skirt
of alternate pullings and flounces of white em-
broidered Indian muslin, had an underskirt of pale
blue, giving a shadowy blue tint to the pure white.
Probably the richest dress on the course was one of
maroon silk, skirt almost covered with dark ruby jet,
bonnet of ruby silk and gold lace. There were several
drossos of black over old gold, and one or two of green
satin ; one of black satin, elaborately worked in gold,
with broad band ef gold round the skirt; one of pale
chartreuse satin and black brocaded flowers, with fall
court train, ruffle and cuffs of Spanish lace, bonnet of
black velvet and ostrich plume to match, hand-painted
black satin sunshade; a striking costume of deep rose,
or cherry ripe satin merveilleux, sunshade of white
satin, white satin Gainsborough bonnet; and many
others equally charming. Altogether, it was quite a
ladies’ day, and the lovely heneficiares made the most of
it. The city milliners reaped a rich harvest; while the
“ whole city full" of spectators who thronged the
stand, the hill, and the course were treated to a grand
vision of fair women and wonderful raiment.
« * •
Amongst woll-known ladies seen on the lawn
were Mrs. Byron Moore, wife of the secretary
of the V.E.C , in a stylish costume of sateen, violets
on lavender ground, and bonnet to match; Mrs. Hurtle
Fisher, in a most beautiful dress of myrtle green
brocade, intermixed judiciously with salmon silk,
bodice entirely of salmon ; and Mrs. George Watson, in
a rich brown silk, Mrs, Stapleton Minchin, of Wagga
Wagga, wore the most becoming of a'l costumes to a
blonde, viz., a rich black satin, prettily blended with
black watered silk; and Mrs. Coghill, of Deniliquin,
appeared in a beautiful dress of peacock-green satin,
and brocaded overskirt. Several ladies from Sydney
were noticed. Mrs. Labertouche was in plum-coloured
satin and black lace; the Misses Labertouche in white
muslin short costumes, undressed tan gloves and mob
caps, skirts and caps trimmed with real lace. Another
young lady from Sydney wore a charming costume of
light blue silk and cream Madras muslin, hat and
parasol to match. On the latter a novelty in the shape
of trimming—bunches of lilies of the valley down one
side, and blue bow on the other, pointed satin cape
embroidered in gold, &c.
t » f
Sydney girls were on the warpath in Collins-
street during tho race week, and the flower of Mel-
bourne youth fell like sheaves in autumn. This is what
11 Zamiol" says of them :— 11 Our fair cousins from tho
Harbour city possess good physique, but have not tho
brilliant complexions ©f Melbourne or Tasmanian
girls." We don’t suppose there is very much difference
m the physique: but Zamiel is quite right about their
complexions—a Sydney girl hates to see the thing over-
done.
* * *
A lady writes: —“I went over to attend Flom-
ington on the Cup Day, and I must say I never saw such a
sight—as far as dress is concerned. The lawn looked
like a garden in the distance, studded with radiant and
charmingly gay flowers. Some of tho dresses were
magnificently and extravagantly beautiful, and rather
spoke too much of the parvenu to suit my taste. The
Sydney ladies are so much more quiet in their style. I
noticed, however, some extremely pretty dresses, and
their elegant simplicity told of the taste of the wearers.
One, a pale blue silk and cream Madras muslin, trimmed
with vermicelli lace, hat and parasol to match; on one
side ©f tho latter, bunches of lilies of the valley, and on
the other blue bow with embroidered monogram and
crown —cape or fichu on the shoulders, embroided in
gold thread. This young lady I saw ip Sydney a few
weeks ago, several times accompanied by one of our
Koyal visitors. Her sister was dressed in bbek.
trimmed with light blue; hat, &0., to match. Miss
B wore violet velvet and sateen, toque and parasol
|to match; Miss A an aesthetic dross of myrtle
green; and Miss 0 —- looked fairy-h 10 in white
gossamer, white satin hat and parasol.
VANITY FAIR.
Rosa Bonheur exhibited her first picture when
she was 19; she is now 53, wealthy and successful,
earning sometimes at her work fIOO a day The
®sthetic craze has reached the anti-tobacco smoke
phase.,, ...A novel Parisian dreis was made so as to give
an exact representation of a lake, surrounded by reeds
and sedges. A soft dark-blue silk indicated the calm
depths of the water, upon which white waterlilies and
leaves were worked in silk. The design was made com,
;?lete by a group of frogs skilfully painted on the edge of
i;he lake. The dress was evidently intended for a oroahj
party The marriage of the Crown Prince of Sweden
with Princess Victoria, daughter of the Grand Duke of
Baden, which took place at Carlsruhe some time ago,
was very grand. The marriage was solemnized pri!
vately first, before the Burgomister, and then came the
State ceremonial, which was short and simple. The
bride’s dress was of silver tissue, with Swedish and
Norwegian silver ornaments. The point lace veil was
six yards long. The pocket handkerchief and fan wore
of point d’aiguille, bordered with myrtles and orange
blossom, and decorated with garlands of the same
flowers. The arms of Sweden and Norway were also in.
troduced into the design; the lion of the latter king-
dom being held captive by a wreath of bridal flower's
The German Crown Princess wore a sparkling tiara of
brilliants, with a magnificent straw-coloured dress and
violet train, while the Queen of Sweden literally blazed
with diamonds. A salute of 38 guns was fired on the
conclusion of the marriage. The newly-wedded pair
having been presented by the clergyman with a bible
then retired, making way for the Grand Duke and
Grand Duchess, whose marriage, of exactly twenty-five
years’ standing, was ratified anew, according to German
custom Plush bids fair to become very popular dur-
ing the coming winter in Paris. Woollen fabrics are
striped with it in a somewhat conspicuous manner
The stripes are quite an inch wide, and are either
shaded in the colour of the woollen ground, or they
contrast with it. For example, a bronze cloth will be
striped with plush shaded from rod to maroon, and bine
cloth will bo striped with orange and gold plush.
Short skirts still remain in vogue, but the
newest are decidedly wider than ia the past
summer, on account of the adoption of crinolettes
At Paris, some of the prettiest country dresses are of
white flannel, trimmed with open-work embroidery,
skirt full and leose, polonaise looped up at the side and
draped a little at the back, pleated bodice with long
basques, and belt round the waist. Llama dresses of
ecru, trimmed with open embroidery, or coarse ecru
lace, are worn. Watered silk is coming into fashion,
but it is expected that satin, velvet, cloth, woollen and
other fabrics will all be watered also, not in large waves
as formerly, but with the waterlines running into one
another in small ripples. Some of the watered silks
will be shaded, and several colours appear in one dress;
some dresses will ba merely trimmed with watered silk.
Twilled silk surahs, with frills of the same material, and
the neck and sleeves trimmed with ruchings of Spanish
lace, are pretty for young girls ; pale colours, such as
cream-ivory, moonlight blue, crevette-pink, being most
in favour. Black Spanish lace is used a good deal, and
faded or soiled silk dresses can bo worn underneath
Enormously large collars are coming into vogue, white
lace and embroidered tulle being used. The now
material, silk-muslin, ia much liked for young ladies’
evening toilets, and is draped with wreaths of flowers,
or rosettes of diamonds or pearls “Dawn” is a new
shade of pale gold The most stylish parasols are of
white silk, trimmed at the top with black ostrich feath-
ers Scarfs of thick black lace are very fashionable
to wear as mantles over light dresses Very
thick brocaded velvets are used for mantles. They look
very stylish, and are expensive. The favourite colours
are a deep toad-green, plum colour, a mixture of terra-
cotta red with brown, and deep claret Manilla,
Tuscan, Japanese, and Spanish blonde hats are seme of
the most fashionable kinds, and the shapes are much
varied ia each A young lady is said to have worn a
glass costume at a recent ball at Philadelphia. The
material from which the dress was made was of glass,
spun into threads and then woven. The train was of
glass, and elaborately trimmed with glass lace, and its
appearance resembled brilliant satin. It is needless to
say that her partners had to “ handle her tenderly."
Even when not clothed in such brittle raiment, how-
ever, the delicate “ got-up ” of the fragile beauties one
meets in some ballrooms is such as to make an inex-
perienced young man extremely frightened to place his
hand round their waists, for fear of an accident. He
gets over that in time, though, when be finds they
don’t break In one of the country towns of England,
recently, an elderly parson was abducted on the eve of
his wedding day. A ransom of £5 restored freedom to
the “giddy old boy.” The belle of the season in
America is Miss Chamberlain, from the State of Ohio,
a beauty of the blonde order, who, if she goes to
London next season, will probably attract a good deal
of attention A wealthy girl. Miss Wilson, was mar
ried recently at Cheadale, England, in dark cashmere,
and drove from the'church to the station, whence she
set forth for her honeymoon; she didn’t stop even onoe
to change her false teeth One of the leading Paris
dressmakers has had some fur plush mode expressly for
her; it is seal-brown in colour, and the long silky pile
in some instances imitates fur, in other brilliant fish
scales. The price of this novelty ia exceedingly high ;
the effect is original, but some what heavy.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Thorpe, Victorian bank thief, sentenced to two
years.
Very rich stone struck in No. 1 East Mountain
Maid, Copeland,. Specimens exhibited at the A J.S.
Bank.
Kingston’s drapery store and other buildings at
Newcastle, destroyed by fire. Insured; inquiry—don’t
know how.
Constable Powoll dismissed from the police
force by Inspector-General Foabery for the .improper
arrest of two civilians.
Municipal Council v. M’Beath, re the Sydney
Town Hall foundations—verdict, £5OOO with costs, ac-
cepted by plaintiffs. Hush I
Fined .8250. That’s what resulted to Mr. J. S.
Berry on Tuesday at Dorlinghurst Sessions, for creating
a nuisance at his Botany glue-worka.
.£lOOO to the widow and .£3OO to the child of
of a man drowned at Emerald Hill, through municipal
negligence, is the verdict of a Melbourne j ary.
Five employees on the Melbourne Herat,d
drew a Zulu sweep, and a compositor in the Adelaide
Government Printing Office was similarly successful.
A verdict of =6520 was obtained in Melbourne,
on the Bth, against Dr. Iffla by a man named Smith for
giving a certificate, by means of which he (Smith) was
wrongfully placed in a lunatic asylum.
Good ! The Americana could not utilise the
boxes in which they shipped apples to England. Now
they pack the fruit in coffins, which meet with ready
sale in London. Another point for Jonathan !
Te Whiti and two other chiefs, with their wives,
arreeted at Parihaka on the sth. Mr. Bryce was
present, and the authorities were backed up by 1700
troops. The chiefs requested their people to be peace-
ful.
Mr. J. B. Hannay, F.1.C., the distinguished
English chemist, has completed his work on the crystal-
lisation of carbon, and will presently show the world
how diamonds can be made easily, cheaply, and cer-
tainly.
Tin ! =BlO,OOO cash was refused for Brickwood’s
tin-mining claim. Cope’s Creek, last Veek. During the
last eighteen months a celebrated claim at the Stannifer
has yielded £lB,OOO clear profit. Local price of tin ore,
£5l per ton.
The Fire Brigades’ demonstration was a great
success. Torchlight procession on Tuesday; heavy
wet on Wednesday—we moan, heavy practice and smart
competition. Smart lot of fellows, but many decidedly
in want of fresh uniforms and new boots.
Some eminent English physicians state that “an
atmosphere impregnated with tobacco smoke is almost
certain to cure small-pox in the stage of disease jnst
prior to eruption.” For announcing this fact wo trust
Dixson and Sons, Cameron, and Saywell will send us
down a fourth of this year’s profits.
Fearful tragedy reported from Lizard Island
vMCooktown. Natives attacked a station, murdering
Mrs. Watson and child, and several Chinamen The
natives admit killing and eating the Chinamen, but
state they saw nothing of Mrs. Watson and her child
Avenging expedition proposed at Cooktown.
The fifth annual picnic of the Fresh Food and
Ice Company took place at Fern Bay, last Friday. The
Alathea (s.) conveyed 250 people down to that charming
spot. The City Fire Brigade band mnsicked for them
and vigorous dancing and other amusements went on all
day, till six o'clock- It was an ice affair.
Here is a relic of the past. It was unearthed at
Gulgong not long ago, and gives a tolerably good idea
of how things went in the “old colonial days.” It is a
copy of an invoice Sydney, 17th June. 1808. Mr.
-. Bought of Campbell and Co. 1 chest of
Hyson Tea, £25 10s.; 1 caddy of Souching ditto, £l2
10s.; 1 tub of sugar-candy £9; 1 basket of tobacco,
571 b. net at iOs., £2B 10a.; 1 piece of print, 28 yards,
4s. 6d„ £2 6 s.; 1 cask of Cape maderia, 19 gals, at 14s„
£l3 63 : 10 pieces of nankeen, at 12s. Gl., £G 5s —£loo
17s.
The railway suburbs of Sydney are growing
apace—an unanswerable argument in favour of tram-
ways ; for it was not till the railway terminus was
connected with the oity that any significant increase was
SO”®®- Here “ re t\ ie increases in passenger traffic for
1880 compared with 1879Newtown 25 per cent
Petersham 35 per cent. Ashfleld 15 per cent., Burwood
10t per cent, Kedmyre 32) per cent., Homebnsh lit per
cent., Eookwood 27) per cent., Granville 51) per cent.,
Pajramatta 134 per cent. It is quite certain that Mr
Goodchap will show us for 1881 a yet much greater
increase. 6
We are asked to call attention to the case of
one William Penso, an old German, who, it mav be
remembered, was terribly mutilated during the
attack upon the Sea Ripple by Solomon Islanders,
at Bouganville, on theSth Augnst, 1880. Billy
was a trader when the master of the Sea
“JgP 1 ® P l( *. ed hl “ U P a t Blanche Bay, New Britain;
and at the tune of the massacro. in which tho captain
(Ferguson) and seven others of the crew were killed,
he waa a passenger. During the melee ho had both
arms broken—the right in three places—and was very
badly chopped and sliced generally by the savages. He
has since been treated in the Brisbane Hospital, and
has come to Sydney to make a claim on the owners or
agents of the vessel for money of his entrusted to the
captain; but the master having left no record of his
trust or indebtedness, the merchants naturally, we
suppose, refuse to recognise it, and poor Billy, unable
to work and badly off, is in a bad plight, for which a
little assistance from the public would relieve him.
LATE SPORTING.
The general entries for the Murrumbulgoe meet-
ing close to-day (Thursday) at 4 p.m.
Sir Oliver was put up for sale lately at Mel-
bourne, and bought in at ICOO guineas.
Segenhoe has been already backed for next
Melbourne Derby and Cup at £lOO to 30’s.
The second-class yacht race for Vice-Commodore
Milford’s trophy is to come oil on Saturday.
W. H. Cooper, the Victorian slow bowler, is
already gaining a good average in cup matches in Mel-
bourne.
The Printers’ Regatta is to come off on Satur-
day, December 10. Mr. E. Daly, the treasurer, reports
plenty subscriptions.
Mr. Edward Terry, who took his hounds to tho
Hunter, was banquettod, on Thursday, at Maitland
Mr. K. Waddy in the chair.
Brisbane go-as-you-please : —Eaynor 364 miles
10 laps, Williams 359 miles 1 lap, Wener 338 miles 11
laps, Hildebrand 231 miles 1 lap.
Manly Rowing and Sailing Club launched under
the best auspices. Subscriptions liberal. Mr. J.J. Lough
secretary. Manly (ought to have had a club long ago.
The total amount of stakes paid over on Mon-
day on account of the late V.E.C. meeting was
£12,654. The largest winners were Hon. J. White,
£1872; Mr, MfDonnell, £1805; Mr. Dakin, £1215 ; Mr.
H. Fisher, £726; and Mr. De Mestre, £699,
One of the most celebrated English jockeys,
P. Webb, was married a little while since to the
daughter of host Jefferson, who keeps tho White Horse
Inn at Brixton. The bridal knot was tied at the parish
church in that village, by CanonHussey, tho edifice being
quite thronged with turfmen and others. Many of tho
small men who ride for large stakes on English courses
were present. They couldn’t help feeling sad, became
they know poor little Webb can’t be trusted with any
more stable secrets now.
Crews in Brisbane training for forthcoming
regatta, 10th December Not much excitement over
the Brisbane “ go-as-you-please.” Eaynor, Williams,
and Wener in order—2sB, 251, 247 miles on Thursday
night at 9. Wener runs a good deal Carlingford’s Ist
v. Callan Park. Former, 72 (Hickson 21); latter, 49.
Carlingford’s 2nd v. Waverley. Won by the former by
31 runs. The bowling and batting of the latter was not
near up to what was expected One of the prettiest
cricket grounds about Sydney is at Callan Park Asylum.
One of the inmates, who declared himself to be the Lord
Harris, has offered his services as coach to the Carling,
fords during the season.
CRICKET.
Croydon v. Windsor : Scores —C. C. C. 46
(Buchanan, not out, 12), W.C.C. 20.... Alexandria v. Ex.
celsior: Scores—A.C.C. 64 (Macintosh 23), E.C C. 6,
owing to the excellent bowling of Macintosh and E11i5....
National v. Woolnhra Victoria: Scores —N.C.C. 3S
(Carroll, not out, 12), W.V.C.C. 32....Her0 of Waterloo
v .Redfern United: Scores—H.W.C.C. 63 (Hopkins 15,
Pople 12), R.U.C.C. 36.... The Junior Cup match,
between the Herald and St. Peter’s, stands as follows: —
Herald, Ist innings, 68. St. Peter’s, Ist innings, 84;
second innings, 8 wickets for 156 Belvidere v. Carl-
ton, Domain. Scores: B.C.C. (C. Richardson 31, C.
Lindeman 14, Thompson 11) 89. C.C.C. (Nunn,
not out, 17, Weame 16, Webster 12, and Davis 10)
total, for four wickets, 70 The second Belvidere
defeated the second St. Leonards, on Saturday, by 18
runs Marshall, of the Balmain Waratah C.C.. is a
coming bowler Ivanhoe v. Eureka, Moore Park.
Scores : I.CC". fE. Hawley 22, J. Hawley 22, and Ed-
mondson 15) 91. E.C.C. made 24, of which Bennet
at scored 13 Denman v. Goulbum River, played
Sandy Hollow, Nov. 5. Scores: D.C.C., 34 and 43;
G.R.C.C., 11 and 12. The double figures were H. S.
Hawkins (captain of D.C.C.), 21; Q. Oxford, 16. J. K.
Gregson captained G.R.C.C Cambridge v. Caxton
C.C., Moore Park. Scores: Cambridge, 55 (Palmar 12);
Caxton, 47 (Kettle 12).
Messrs. Hardie and Gorman had a tremendous
crowd at Sandgate sale last Saturday. Capital results.
Mr. Evan Jones, a young blood, with all the
work in him, runs for municipal honours this year.
He stands for Denison Ward,
Special services were held at St. John’s, Glebe
Point, last Sunday morning—preacher. Rev. E. M. Sail-
niero; evening, Rev. Dr. Ellis. A very large congrega-
tion attended the evening service. Dr. Ellis preached a
most eloquent£sermon. Mr. A. J. Drewa officiated aa
organist.
Cole’s Christmas cards comprise a collection of
the greatest variety and novelty yet seen in this city.
The best London and Parisian talent and taste seem to
have been devoted to their production; and it pretty
clearly shows that in respect of design and style we
have in the colonies yet something to learn. There’s
another point—marvellous cheapness.
There are some “ sea dogs” in this port jnst
now who are trying to lick the fame of Noah’s Ark.
The Cynisca is to take 80,000 bales of wool homo for
the February sales, and the Cimba is to stow away
130/00 in the hold, and about <lOOO additional ip the*
captain’s cabin. The Femenoth will absorb about
150,000 bales. The carrying capacity of these vessels,
it will be soon, is great. If the cantaiis—.but no
“Let go that bower anchor," &c. '
”I am a sad sea dog | ” No wonder you are 5
yon have not been to Hamburger, Brothers, and Co
375 George-street (opposite the New Arcade), who ara
retiring from business, and are retailing their own
imported stock of watches, jewellery, clocks, meer.
schanm pipes, olectroplate-waro, fancy goods, eto., at
English cost. Get price-list, and compare, Yon will
find them cheaper than all “SOp/c” and “assigned••
sales. Inspect, judge, bo convinced, and—buy.—Anv.
Kit seems to bo the current belief in China that
the (Lgestmn of an Australian assimilates closely to that
of the emu, and that consequently turmeric, iron
filings, gypsum, “ exhausted" tea leaves, and othei.
nameless abominations, will find a ready sale in Ansi
TTalia. Another cargo has jiut been condeitftnecl in
Melbourne, and some of the rubbish will doubtless bo
shipped on here. Be on your guard. Turn over a “ new
leaf." Ask for Calcutta Tea Association's Pnre lndi J
Teas, the best, most economic, and palatable tea eveS
sold in Australia. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Gharkxttci
Place. Do not ba prevailed on to take any other.
The best substitute for the present high-priced
meat (and far more wholesome) is Rcdgauf’a Patent
Meal, or Food of Health. The WiSS Cricketera
is the trade mark, none other genuine. Sold bv all
grocers and storekeepers.—Anv. Dy aU
r increase in the transactions of the Free
oWb g L p brar ? smce it removed to the old iron
books h abouS 1 - S tet S i nit B P lendidl J; issue of
about’ 15 000 °’a tHI Umb6r of books in the Hbrarv,
tbom’ ,P 6 llb F®ry authorities are determined to mako
5® tnrn tha b ooks more promptly, or they will
know the reason why. But what must make
body s heart rejoice, is the fact that a largo
volumes of “English Patent now
Kl? «a £hoS! 33
SSSaSRS* ““ ™
14
November 12, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


DA
AWARDED the
for Sewing W
ONLY FIRST
MEDAL, at
1881.
FIRST and SP
Show, 1877, II
Singleton, W
ONLY First and
No other
Special Prize at
to the contrary n
B. O.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TIE
Tur llmii/cdcai 3rui i r
Tailors, Drapers, fto.
Business Announc
A.
G. C H U E C
SALT MERCHA]
IMPORTER and MANU]
of
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
SPICES, RICE, and B
STEAM MILLS, WOOLD
OFFICE and STORES :-147 1
SYDNEY.
DURE CHINES
Messrs. QUONG TAB
Have much pleasure in announei
opened at
300 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite the French
AN AGENCY FOR THE
LOON SHAU
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co.
public approval Silks and General H
N.B.—Mr. QUONG TART has
a visit to China, where he in persoi
mentioned Teas, so that their purit
INSPECTION INVI
300 GEORGE STREET—SHOW I!
Near Hunter-strei
STEREOTYPE
AND-
'4W/ URN
1/ * w
Y 2 Hamilton St.
STTIDTSTB
it 70 LITTLI COLLINS ST3
Also
S
HEEIDAN & FI
STOCK AND SHARE B
94 PITT-STREE
SYDNEY.
Hkitkt A. Sheridan, formerly Ms
mercial Bank, Maitland.
Jauss Fullfobd, of West Maitlai
TJUEKE, COULSON,
** AUCTIONEERS, WOOL
STOCK, STATIC
aad
GENERAL COMMISSI
112 PITT STREET, S'!
And ORANGE
nf
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 481, GEOEGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1861.
A LAEGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONAEUK
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT PIT GUARANTEED.
JJ A V E
YOU
TO
R. MORPH*
233 Pitt Stree
E
LI3E’S PAPER CUT
All communications to be act
II JJJJgJ] **
No. 12 PARK STREET, SI?
Six doors from George-sl
Orders for Patterns cannot- bo ext
paid. Onr cut-out Paper Patterns !
style, cut, and finish, being modelled fr
Fashions, and are always sent per
receipt of stamps or money order.
Q>7 KING STREET,
O • (two doors from Geo
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke—si
MADAME DEMOEEST’S
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PAT
styles erery mail from Paris and New
Full directions and illustrations with
MADAME DEMOEEST’S publical
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What tow
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratia.
MISS LOUISA HA
1611
(Near
madam;
Paper Patte
Mantles, et
sizes for 1
ren furnisl
tions and d
ing up. Sc
ing from 6
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by poi
annum, post free. Catalogue
Patterns sent to any part of the <
of price and measure. Postage S
Address:
MADAME WEI
161 King-street, Sydn
r
a
&
m
m
JU hm
b— *
4^
C«0
BEASSFINISHEES, COPPEESMITHS,
Plumbers and Gasfitters,
BLACKSMITHS.
BON ACCOED WORKS,
9 Macquarie Place, j
SYDNEY.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Cour
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad wit
This GAS is much c'eauer and more brilliant than coal gas, and,
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic
TAI.T.OW «AS made with this APPAEATUS is used for lightii
THE “PRODU!
ERADICATES SCURF an<3
Soothes, Invigorates, an
Tndnona a hAalt.Viv notion of
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Floi
GUARANTEE
WHISKERS AND MO
GUARANTEE
That one single applicatio
falling off in all cases of Fe
Diseases is certified to by th
GUARANTEE
Try it, and take none otl
POUR
FRIZES.
PARIS, 187 S.
SYDNEY, 188 0.
MELBOURNE, 1831.
il!
mi
J3IANOS. AMERICAN OR
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORQi
J. MASSE Y and I
beg to inform their friends and the
they have opened those i
No. 10 PARK STRI
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN OR
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on
is selected from the best English, G
factories, representing, among otho
Erord, Broadwood, Muller, Bot
American Organs by the B(
J. Massey and Son offer all these
for cash, or they may be had on
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and S(
PARK STREET, S
For VENETIAN
TRY
W 0 R, M A
11Q fVYWVRT) HTTJ
THE Most PEEFECT-FITTI
are
SMITH and MANN,
CELEBRATED WHII
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/-
SMITH AND MAE
Shirt Makers
HOSIERS, AND MEN’S
298 George Street, i
(One door South of Hun
15
THE BULLETIN.
November 12, 1881.


0 L IFPO E D, LOY
TEA imports:
EASTERN AND COM]
MERCHANTS
Receive regular consignment;
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualilic
Do. Indian Prize Medf
CHUTNIES—Indian Priz
PRESERVES—Indian Pr
COFFEE —Plantation No
Do. „ Pea
Do. „ Nos
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIako and Pe
SAOO
PEPPER—White and Bl:
OFFICES 79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
m
JOHN D
IMPORTER 01
Plumbers’ and Engineers* Brassw
Gaafittinga, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, 4
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
E
H. L. SUMMER
ECONOMY IN CLOI
—o—
SAVE 20 PER CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS PRO!
DIRECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE'S 1
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEA
eent to any part of the
W The particular attention c
lenta is requested to ti
Any style of Garment made 1
SUMMERFIELI
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAB
■
TEEL
ilOKNS^| r
TRIPPER
We sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year
and every purchaser has sent us as good & testimonial v
ft Is possible to write.
COPIES OF THESE TESTIMONIALS POSTED TO EVERY EHOUIREI
W FARMERS see the UOItNSJn
BKFORB OKOSRISO OTUBB.
S'
MARTIN & PAIN, HORNSBI
38» QBORQE STREET, SYDNEY. <s*
Are uik
they art tht
They are thi
Thhy bre'itn
They are thi
They are Mi
They do the
l»C CALL
TKtfS
THE DRI\
THE PfNli
THE DRU
THE DRU
THE l-TNG
We Guara
FARMER
Ho other f
SEND 1
Sole M
Agents ■**'
389 GE(
r, ■-,
■
WL
■ >. ,
m
it®
m
■k-
mm
MS-
Wk
m
r<S:f
v.
-pm
% ■ ; v
m
m
--. v
V
life’
'M
Vir-/
•r-
SfaStSlW:
r y >
milE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REi
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy<
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE.
C. E. WIG ZELL,
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY-
STA
And On
0^
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE
PRIZE
awarded
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
hermitage.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
per gallon.
DINNER WINES 10/- per <
SHIRAZ ) Fruity ),,,
MADEIRA j Wines V l ' ”
BURGUNDY) Dry ),,,
EIBRLIKG i Wines )“ 1/- ”
G. H. STEPHEN & C(
Wine Growers and Morch.
13 Bridge Street
MOST PLEA!
A
WANTED TO B
that the hest clean*
TANT and Deodoriser for t
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DIS
can lie found by '
PANTEE AND FAERY’ S N
OP SOAP,
which not only contains th
dieuts tor the greatest clea:
ever yet introduced to th(
composed in its inanufactur
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in al!
throughout the globe. Comb
it, is free from nil injurior
pleasing smell, will not. iujir
cate hands, is the greatest
lalwnr, remlering any artich
with of the purest whiten
marvellous short space of tin
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot ho surpassed I
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crocki
Paint, Floor?
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which
EACH PACKET, which n
from all Grocers and St,oral
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS. 7<*> GEORGI
SYD N E 1
IN THE WOI
ftei kid;?:
Dispense Proscriptions cheai
other House in Sydney. All 1
Medicines at less than English pr
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponj
m
m
mmM
ALL KINDS OP DRUGGISTS’
Rend for a Price List. Conntry
ally attended to. Don’t forget
Yon cannot mistake it —
Opposite Hordern’s Now B
£
W. KER
MAN UFACTUEING .
WATCH AND CLOCB
Gfit GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’* i
Medals of every description, Mam
seutatiou Trowels designed t
Premises.
DIAMOND SETI
A now and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, fron
KING STREET
All
16
November 12, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.
