

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.—No. 74.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 25, 1881.
Hysterical Administration.
The circular addressed by Sir Henry Parkes to
the Governments of the other Australian colonies
states that there appear to be sufficient grounds
for believing that all the cases of small-pox now
in Sidney have arisen from the Chinese recently
arrived in the colony. No one will dispute the cor-
rectness of this confession. But it comes altogether
too late. The people of the colony do not look to
their rulers for confessions, but for statesmanlike
foresight. The confidence of the public cannot
but be shaken in the competence and self-respect
of a Government which blunders into a position
which makes it convenient to despatch to its
neighbours so obvious a misstatement as that in
the case of the first patient— On Chong’s child —
“ every precaution was taken to prevent the
disease from spreading. ’ ’ Every newspaper reader
in New South Wales knows that this is a perver-
sion of the truth, inasmuch as the medical attend-
ant upon the child was permitted for days to go
freely in and out of the quarantined premises, and
rub shoulders promiscuously with the general
public.
# * #
The whole business has been a prodigious
bungle. Months ago an Anti-Chinese deputation
tried to impress upon the Premier the danger that
small-pox would be introduced by the Chinese,
who had begun to arrive shipload after shipload.
Sir Henry Parkes did not find it convenient to
pay any regard to this particular warning. He
dismissed the deputation with an airy assurance
that there was no cause for alarm, and took no
precautions at all. At that time it would have
been possible to take —without demonstrativeness
—every step for regulating the influx of Chinese
which is now being resorted to. Chinese ports
were then, as now, “ infected places,” while the
port ot Sydney was not. The insensate perversity
of the Premier, and his pretensions to be regarded
as more sagacious than all the world besides are
chargeable with the deplorably sensational charac-
ter of the measures now being fired off to unnerve
the public.
# * #
With these measures themselves no serious fault
need to have been found had they been taken with
proper deliberation and at the right time. But
the fatuity of the Government has given them a
character altogether deplorable. At the very
crisis, when it is most essential that nothing should
be permitted to create a scare and so predispose
people to succumb to infection, a necessity has
been imagined for shaking their composure with
proclamations, circulars, exceptional exercise of
administrative authority, sensational measures—
in short, every conceivable thing which would be
best calculated to create a scare. The crisis has
once more brought into strong relief the real
feebleness of Sir Henry Parkes’ character, pre-
tentious as is his attitude while the demands upon
him do not go beyond requiring dexterity in
handling the pawns upon the political chess-board.
Shrewd and calculating in parochial politics, large
subjects exceed his grasp, and any sudden crisis
deprives him of judgment.
* * *
Sir Henry Parkes’ proceedings in connection
with this small-pox scare precisely tally with his
loss of discretion and self-guidance when Prince
Alfred was shot at Clontarf. The people of the
colonies went wild with rage and excitement, and
Sir Henry Parkes, instead of towering superior
to the agitation which upset the mental balance of
average men, seemed to have no idea except to
win popularity by outbidding all competitors in
extravagance. His Treason-Felony Act, hurried
through the Legislature, was his contribution to
the furore of the hour. The Chartist principles
of his earlier manhood, the constitutional
rights of which he had so often posed as the cham-
pion—common-sense, justice, all were cast to the
winds, and the exploit was received with amaze-
ment and unextinguishable laughter and scorn by
all the world outside the radius of local excite-
ment.
* #
Had there been in the present instance proper
appreciation of the determination by the bulk of
the colonists to resist the invasion of Asiatics;
had there been even a decent sympathy with the
feelings of the working classes on this, to them,
vital subject—Chinese immigration would long
since have been placed .under such restrictions
and regulations that infection need never have
reached our midst.
#
What is equally important is that everything
that is now being done recklessly, hurriedly, and
with the worst effect, could have been done gradu-
ally, steadily, and without disturbance. No one
can yet the injury that the peremptory
and arbitrary proceedings which the crisis has
rendered imperative, may inflict upon the com-
merce of the capital. Few will waste much
lamentation upon any losses which may be suf-
fered by shipowners engaged in transporting
Chinese coolies to our shores. But, after all,
suddenly to overturn commercial enterprise for no
reason except that a Ministry was first obstinately
blind, and then feverishly bent upon escaping the
popular wrath, is a deplorable kind of administra-
tion. The wild flurry which has resulted from the
infatuated incapacity of Sir Henry Parkes’
Administration to look ahead has to bear the
responsibility of shaking commercial relations
with our free port; of Sydney being declared
throughout Australasia an infected place; and of a
consequent interference with the free and speedy
course of trade, of which the full significance has
yet to be realized.
# # #
It is vain for the habitual apologists of the
Government to declare that the plague has been
stayed in consequence of the measures adopted
by the Ministry. After Dr. Foucart had been
permitted to perambulate the city ; after a China-
man had been carted from one end of Sydney to
another; after his countryman, leaping from the
same bunk, had escaped, and still remains undis-
covered, the colony is invited to believe that
Government precautions which did not
prevent the introduction of the disease
have alone prevented its spread. What wonder-
ful potency is this, which is claimed for a
parcel of men ? They can stay the progress of
a disease which already overleaped a street and
smote to death a workman on a roof opposite an
infected house!
# * *
Let there be no mistake. The disease requires
some twelve days or a fortnight to develop after
the germs have entered the system. It is little
more than a week since the pustule-covered
Chinaman was carried through the streets. We
trust, indeed, that the trouble has been stayed;
but if it has, the circumstance is due alone to the
mercy of Providence, —to whom, and not to any
human Government, men not utterly debased by
the habit of sycophancy will address their
thanks.
The Rev. Dr. Ellis.
Some of the grandest achievements of human
genius have been effected in the Christian pulpit.
Whether the eloquence that “ wielded the wildest
democracies at will,” in the ancient Greek re-
publics, was in any respect superior to the sublime
utterances of those who have endeavoured to teach
man how to subordinate his passions to reason,
would be too large a subject for discussion. It
suffices for our present purpose to remind the
reader that the fame of great preachers has come
down the cycle of the ages, fraught with the
odours of a humane philosophy which others ex-
press by brotherly love. John, of the “ golden
mouth ” —Chrysostom—not only moved the hearts
and souls of thousands in his own day with words
of electric force; but his voice, in his works, lives
to-day in perpetuam memoriam —in the world’s
reverence and recollection —as that of the most
accomplished sacred orator on record. In the
current of time others appeared, who adapted
their discourses to the exigencies of their respec-
tive situations, and operated on the minds of large
masses of thoughtful men with benificent effect.
The English pulpit has been adorned or dignified
with worthy exponents of Christian doctrine; the
grace of Tillotson, the quaintness of Jeremy
Taylor, and the varied thoughts of many of a later
school, occur to us while we consider this subject;
but for grandeur of conception we can remember
no instance in which the glamour of terrestial
greatness was so emphatically rebuked as when
Massillon, in low but incisive tones, in the presence
of Louis XIV. and his Court, delivered the mag-
nificent exordium, at Notre Dame: Dieu seul
est grand — God alone is great. The effect must
have been overpowering. He was delivering a
funeral oration over the remains of Marie Hen-
riette, the daughter and the wife of historic kings,
and in the presence of the haughtiest monarch
that ever attempted to reduce monarchy to a
despotic Caesarism; still the prophet—the exponent
of an eternal truth—warned his hearers against
“the pomp of power”—the very pageantry of death
itself—by crushing into their minds the perfect
truth, only half-expressed by the poet—
“ The paths of glory lead but to the grave.”
Other illustrations of the preacher’s power will occur
to the reader, perhaps recalling kindly memories of
men who have passed away from amongst us here
—of Dr. Ross, Dr. Lang, Archbishop Folding,
and Mr. Cuthbertson—all of whom, in their day,
played on human hearts as the divine Cecilia did.
on the organ of her own traditional invention.
The recent success of Dr. Ellis in Sydney proves
there is a field here for good, unsophisticated,
earnest pulpit-teaching. Those who have heard
him in St. Andrew’s Cathedral are able to form a
just estimate of his various powers—more espe-
cially his gifts of nature. He is dowered with a
voice that discourses sweet music in its very
whispers and cadences, and he certainly
believes in what he teaches. His soul has
been imbued with the fire of an unselfish zeal,
which helps one to interpret the meaning of the
prophet Isaiah’s purification at the altar. It
would not be difficult to heighten the effect of this
opinion by giving specimens of Dr. Ellis’ force-
ful utterances from our note-book; but the few
particulars we have gleaned of his career will
form more generally interesting accompaniment
to his portrait, and tend to show the process of
cultui e through which he has passed before he
ventured on “ justifying the ways of God to man,”
or of man’s “glorious vassalage,” through intelli-
gence, to the Great Creator. Dr. D. H. Ellis is a
scion of the chivalric house of Wrexham, in
North Wales, one of his ancestors having been a
friend of Charles I. and a gallant cavalier. Mr. Ellis
was taught the elements of classics in science by a
scholar of Jesus College, Oxford, and later re-
ceived advanced instruction at Lancing, in Sussex.
He graduated at Oxford, proceeded ad eundem in
Dublin, and took honors at other great seats of
learning. It will suffice to state that he is aB.A.,
LL.B., Mus. Bac., and D.D. He was prepared
for holy orders by the Rev. E. Freeman, of Ash-
wicken, Keeton, near Sandringham, Norfolk, and
also had the privilege of pursuing liturgical and
theological studies under his tutor’s brother, the
late Archdeacon of Exeter. He was ordained by
the present Bishop of Norwich, and appointed to
the curacy of Roydon, where he worked for ten
years under the Rev. C. W. Baget, son of
the Bishop of Oxford. The parish in which
Mr Ellis prepared himself for his higher mission
being a small one, he took pupils preparing for
the universities and public schools. One of them,
Lieutenant R. Elwes, aide-de-camp to Sir George
Colley, while urging a brother Etonian to advance
with the cry, Floreat Etona, was shot dead, a few
weeks ago, by the Boers. While residing there,
the Prince and Princess of Wales often attended
the services at Dr. Ellis’ church, and he frequently
partook of their hospitality at Sandringham. He
will probably be one of the first in Australia the
young Princes will recognise as known to them in
their early home. In 1872, Dr. Ellis was appointed
Minor Canon and Acting Precentor of Bangor, and
was the first within living memory to inaugurate
a full ch jral service there. In that year he married
Miss Grace Moore, a cousin of Mr. Charles Stuart
Parnell, of Land-League renown, and of Miss Mary
Yorke, who is married to a son of the late Rev.
Charles Kingsley, the father of modern “muscular
Christianity.” A son was born to him at Bangor,
who died in early infancy (1873), and a daughter
(Grace Moore Ellis )who is living, but whose birth
her mother only survived eleven weeks. This afflic-
tion only whetted the zeal of Dr. Ellis. He devoted
himself with singular energy to the musical and
charitable societies of Bangor, and helped to
prepare deserving youths gratuitously for Cam-
bridge. Domestic afflictions could not weaken
the strength of his spirit, but it preyed on his
constitution, and he temporarily acted as Master
and Chaplain of Ravenstone Hospital, in Leices-
tershire, an institution for decayed gentle-
men. There, too, his skill in, and love of sacred
music found a fair field, and he established
choral societies at Ashby-de-la-Zouohe and
Coolville, each of which, like the Norfolk and
Bangor institutions, generously recognised his
services—particularly the luminous example of his
edifying life and daily conversation amongst them
—before his departure for Australia. Since his
arrival here he has been engaged in preaching and
teaching, devoting considerable time to the pupils
of St. Andrew’s parochial school, some of whom
he is preparing for the University. He is labour-
ing earnestly to procure a permanent endowment
for the choir of the Cathedral—an object which no
genuine churchman will fail to support, even on
the low motive of showing some sense of gratitude
to Dr. Ellis for his zealous and eloquent adminis-
trations in St. Andrew’s Cathedral. It is not in
THE REV, DR. ELLIS


the columns of a secular journal such a man will
beet obtain the recognition due to hia disinter- ;
estedness and usefulness as a clergyman; but it
is necessary that some such details should be
given of the career of a man who preaches with a
power never excelled in the colonies, and who is
trying to bring the Gospel to the hearts of the
poor. If he does not induce scoffers to pray, he
compels them to respect him and his mission.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Like a Sheep.
A stobt almost—we wish it were quite—incredible is
told in the daily papers. At Scarsdale, in Victoria, two
boys went out shooting. One, a Chinese lad, accident-
ally received a charge in the leg, to the alarm of hie
companion, who attempted, with his sisters' aid, to
bandage the wounded limb. While thus engaged his
elder brother appeared upon the scene, and with an
atrocious readiness of resource perfectly horrifying In
its coolness, deliberately cut the little sufferer's throat
with his penknife, and threw the body into a neighbour-
ing waterhole. At least, so says his younger brother.
The tragedy only came to light through the accidental
discovery of the remains. The companion of the
murdered boy, aged ten years, then made the above dis-
closure. The tale is dreadful enough to be original, but
our readers will easily recall &n alleged kindred incident
which happened some short time since in the Bine
Mountains. In that case it was reported that a mere
child had been secretly made away with by his own
brother, under somewhat similar circumstances. Ap-
palling as Is the first instance of juvenile depravity,
therefore, it is apparently not altogether unique of its
kind. “ Depravity," indeed, seems quite an inadequate
term to express the state of mind which could prompt
such a diabolical deed. There would appear to be a
fiendish heartlessness— a complete callousness of sen-
sibility among that portion of our colonial youth of
which the sample under notice is, we fearfully hope, a
grossly exaggerated type. Certainly our social machi-
nery for reaching and influencing the rising generation
is defective. To have hardened to such a degree as a
oold-blooded atrocity of this kind betokens, is to own
a state of mind inaccessible to any soft or refining in-
fluence, and impervious to any delicacy of sentiment or
gentleness of impulse. It discloses a crude coarse-
ness and positive brutality of life and manners which
could only be engendered amid scenes of blood—the
product of a shambles or slaughter-yard, in fact, rather
than any possible effect of civilised home growth.
Surely the faintest touch of nature —the feeblest prompt-
ing of boyish generosity or youthful tenderness would
have asserted itself in this juvenile murderer’s mind,had
it existed, to save his helpless victim. Its blank, utter
absence is, however, the appalling and only inference.
There is too much reason to fear that the sensibilities
of the growing element amongst us are too much
neglected, and permitted to run hideously wild.
Banging the Tambourine.
Axx visitors to the Sydney Botanic Gardens will no
doubt have noticed with pleasure a certain very big and
fat monkey, which is the happy possessor of a black
head, a brown body, and blue hind-qnarters, and which
is, further, so fortunate as to be, socially, and in many
other respects, the "counterfeit presentment," on a
small scale, ef a certain executioner we have seen.
Well, we were about to observe that the aforesaid
ferocious-looking anthropoid simian would hardly be a
fit companion for the good-natured and refined little
monkey which ordinarily gets Its living, not by staying
behind iron bars and being fed at the expense of the
State, but by sitting on a barrel-organ in all the glory
of a scarlet jacket with blue piping, and banging a
tambourine. Almost the only thing in common between
the two is that both are mischievous. Criminals are
mischievous, also, and may fitly be likened to monkeys.
The fault of the big monkey is that he is ooarse and
brutal, and only safe when locked np. So it is with
the habitoal criminal, the professional gaol-bird, who,
soared with the world, mentally dashes himself against
the walls of his prison, and treats his fellowmen, when-
ever he gets ont, much in the same fashion as the big
monkey wonld treat the boys assembled before his cage.
The little monkey, if untutored, is bad enough, but, if
taken in hand while young and given a musical education,
he as a general rule does not cause the world one-tenth
tho trouble inflicted on it by the big brnto. If the
little fellow persistently refuses to work, ho is
soon relegated into obscurity by his owner; and he
then resembles the typical vagabond, who, like the
organ-grinder’s monkey, nearly always has ostensible
means of subsistence, bnt incurs the penalty of the
Vagrant Act, or goes to the Benevolent Asylum, when-
ever he for any length of time refuses or is nnahle to
bang his tambourine.
The Land and the People.
At the banquet given to Waishi, the Irish Land
Leaguer, in Melbourne, the other evening, Mr. F. Love.
mobs. Minister for Lands, was presented with a testi-
monial in which reference was made to the fact that
"amongst the public men of Victoria he had been the
first to espouse the cause of Ireland and of liberty." In
replying, Mr. Longhobe traced the causes of Irish
misery to the alienation of the land by soldiers of for-
tune. He pointed out that the Irish land question had
an interest for Victorians, in that the land had been
passing into a comparatively few hands. "At present
the three brothers Wasoi owned 277,0#0 acres, and the
two Chibkbidbs 109,000. The land was the people's, and
landlordism was the curse of any country." In view of
Mr. Bebrt's recent declaration of his intention to pro-
ceed with his “ busting-up policy," and of the rnmonr
that Hr. Lonomoek Is once more to be in the Bbbbt
Government, these declarations are peculiarly signifl.
cant. Political ostriches may bury their heads in the
sand, and imagine that by so shutting out evidence of
external movements they will charm them away. Bat
to such as prefer to preserve the use of their senses, it
must be apparent that a great revolution of ideas with
reference to the sacredness of monopoly is working
in the minds of the masses everywhere, and that the
right of the fortunate few to appropriate to themselves
man’s common heritage—the earth they live on—will be
challenged and disputed, not merely in Ireland, or
England, or Victoria, but wherever the masses have be-
gan to listen to reason. The smaller a territory in pro-
portion to the number of its people, the earlier will be
the struggle. But wherever the apportionment of the
public estate has been conducted on principles repug-
nant to the growing perception of right, the straggle
will come. And New South Wales is not likely te escape
the disturbance.
Slaves of the Ring.
“ Ole Uncle Sam, see he, I guess,
I on’y guess, sez he.”
Just so; and there ore not a few among ourselves who
only guess too, but unfortunately without that shrewd-
ness that characterised the acute Samuel's mental
exercises in this direction. Our city fathers, now, are
adepts at this feat, and particularly at its latter portion;
they "on'y guess" at their annual expenditure, with-
out calculating their probable income, and the result of
this ingenious process is natural enough. A balance on
the wrong side of the civic ledger is becoming a pain-
fully familiar phenomenon. Perhaps this fact of
familiarity itself has something to do with the con-
tinual recurrence. Anyone who knows Sydney, knows
that the best way to perpetuate an abuse, of whatever
kind soever, is to render it familiar. That done. It is
consecrated for all time. If, however, any amateur
artist in jobbery leaves an opening for the exposure of
some glaring evidence of his handiwork, and then
timorously withdraws, affrighted at the clamour the
new sensation has made, his doom is sealed. But, with
all their bungling, our people are too shrewd for that.
They lay themselves out to familiarise their admirers
with any blander that discovers itself, and the sensa-
tion forthwith exhausts itself. There is canning, if
not a higher philosophy, in this. Thus, if the Town
Hall bo found an expensive luxury, a discovery is made
of the defective masonry employed in its construction;
to divert public disquiet on this score, however, its
attention is merged in the miserable condition of the
foundations of that structure. Sven here, again,
material for mutual gratulation and a new sensation is
found, and the story of civic neglect is treated os a
threadbare tale; for the falling ceiling and the gaping
walls warn each person to felicitate himself on his own
narrow escape from destruction. Thus the game gees
on, and the wheels within wheels revolve. The action
of the purblind public in this matter has always
forcibly reminded us of the function of the genius
in the wonderful story of Aladdin —both being the
slaves of a “ ring." But of what particular species of
ring? Well, the preseat unsatisfactory state of the
libel law makes it difficult for us to say.
Honours from Downing.street.
The bestowal of knighthood and companionships of
illustrious orders upon colonial politicians is a pro-
ceeding which from the imperial standpoint can doubt-
less bo justified—from the colonial standpoint it is one
of a very questionable character. It evokes in the
commonplace mind of the average Australian politician
a desire to please Roobbs, to be obsequious to imperial
designs as regards tariffs, to consider Colonial interests
as secondary to Imperial ones. Did these honours—
the bestowal of which, under existing circumstances,
we deprecate—flow from the Queen as the fountain of
honour to Australians recognised by Australians as
worthy of high distinction—to these few, great as
explorers, or exemplary as successful pioneers in
industrial enterprise, we might withdraw our objection.
But when the C.M.Q.-ship, K.C.M G.-ship, or what not,
is, by means which the Australian pnblio know nothing
whatever about, tacked on to the name of some mere
politician of shady social antecedents, even the least
cantankerous among critics are forced to confess that
the Queen’s prerogative is dragged in the gutter, and
the original object of knighthood prostituted to very
low ends indeed. It would be well if steps were taken
in Parliament to force an explanation of the precise
process by which the Queen’s British advisers ora
informed of the names of those Australians wham she
is expected to honour;
Confounded Impudence.
Thb community does not attach mnch weight to the
n iterances of Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., M.P„ Alder,
man, Ac., &o. Therefore, his remarks 'made at the
meeting held at the Chamber of Commerce, recently,
or the purpose of urging upon the Government tho
necessity of completing the city railway, are not likely
to receive any more than casual notice. But with
the view of directing public attention to Mr. Davibs’
cool impertinence we intend to have a few words with
him thereon. Mr. Davies rose to second an amendment
moved by Mr. Tbickbtt, M.L.A« and in doing so, ad-
vocated a scheme of his own, which,he said, would avoid
interfering with the wharves, and could bo carried out
at comparatively moderate cost. “It was not to bo ex.
pec ted," said he, " that representatives of country con-
stituencies would vote the money for snch a costly work
as that suggested by Messrs. Svuabt and Tocxo. It
would bo unreasonable to expect them to do so." Now,
whatever ability Mr. Davibs may possess in the organi-
zation of harbour picnics, and whatever may be
wisdom and foresight in regard te making due pro-
vision for an unlimited supply of hot water and other
reqnisitiee on such occasions; and whatever may be
the extent of the confidence reposed in their under-
ground engineer by the present Government, we nay
be permitted to question his claims upon public de"
ference as a master of economy. What we now have te
deal with is Mr. Davibs* anxiety with reference to the
cost of a necessary work and his desire to study
economy. Now there can be no doubt that, whatever
route may be adopted, whether Mr. Stuabt’o, Mr,
Touho’s, Mr. Watt's, or any other, the work will be very
costly; and it Is nothing less than impertinent audacity
for Mr. Davibs, after taking a prominent part in voting
away no less a sum than a million sterling for carrying
a railway over barren country Into a out At ems at
Mndgec—afterj using the itrnst reposed in him, both a m
one of the citizens* representatives in Parliament and
as on alderman of the city, in endeavours to facilitate
the expenditure of some thousands of the citizens'
money on the erection of a hath at Watson's Bay, at a
time, too, when the Mayor informs the ratepayers that
the city finances are in snch a state that he fears the
Corporation will have to shut np to face his fellow-
citizens, and without a blush on his sleek countenance,
to express his opinion about the cost of a work de-
signed, not only to serve the convenience of thousands
of his own constituents, bnt to be of the greatest con-
sequence to every producer of the colony, whether
selector or squatter, by enabling them to export their
produce with the greatest despatch and at the mini-
mom cost.
An Indictment Against the Coalition.
The main articles of the indictment which should be
preferred against tho Coalition may be classified under
two headings—viz., first, those which ore referable to
criminal neglect, and second, those which come under
the category of political cowardice. One or two of the
articles might fairly enough be classed under both
headings. The miserable unpreparedness for the advent
of small-pox—an event possible at any time daring the
past few years—and the fatuous departmental ignorance
(or worse—departmental connivance), under cover of
which the public estate was half rained by ring-barking.
Hera be two striking oases of criminal neglect of duties
staring portfolioed nincompoops straight in the face-
Then, as to cowardice —as to that self-interested, sneak-
ing fear of interference with the vested interests of
powerful "rings"—has there not been the craftv
avoidance of the licensing question, of that of eivil
service reform, of that of Sydney municipal reform P—
ay, and worse than avoidance of these matters—a
playing into the hands of the brewers and of those
wealthy lower orders under whose control are
the fortunes of the Port Jackson “ Tammany 1"
This neglect and this cowardice invite on indict-
ment which, on the assembling of Parliament,
we trust to see pressed agairst the Government with
point, precision, and perseverance. The Coalition
babble may have a membrane of more pachydermatous
nature than ordinary, but ’tie a babble for all that, and,
when punctured, it must collapse. A change is needed
In the programme which secures—
Each hon’able doughface getting jest wut he axes.
An* the people—their annoeal soft sodder an' taxes.
“Found Dead!”
Thebe was one such record made last week. The poor
game of life was played out. He knew it, and wrapping
the old bine blanket about his face, lest the crow or the
dingo should begin too soon, lay down to die. They
found him upon the morrow, and talked about the
matter as usual. He was a swagaman—a vagrant, a
drunkard, as some swagsmen are; his life was all folly,
and he hod paid the penalty. What more should be
saidP To-morrow—next week -another may die in like
manner. Probably many die thus every week. Eivers,
creeks, and dams, mallee scrub and mountain gorges,
long ; white plains and spinifex wastes of the
hot North, hold a host of silent witnesses whose
evidence, perhaps, will be never heard. They
died; they are buried, or their bones lie bleach-
ing. Thousands of others must also thus miser-
ably die, or drip oat the dregs of life in the eleemosynary
institutions of our towns. The Australian swagsman
is, indeed, a melancholy study. He has poor joy in the
present—no hope in the future; the meanest workman
of white blood—insolent, indolent, dissolute, thriftless,
mindless, godless. And wherefore ? And who must
bear the blame ? Himself, chiefly. He will soak body
and soul in alcohol; and when ten thousand devils,
bred from his orgies, hound him on.to death, he does
but pay the debt wilfully incurred. Shall the
liquor-seller be called to acconnt? How shall his
license be paid, or his fortune be established, if he be
hampered by restrictions in dealing with his prey P
Shall the employer be questioned? Does not he pay
liberal wages, and is not all his duty thereby fulfilled ?
The teacher—-the preacher P He comes to the station,
and sits down with the owner, sups and dines, and
lounges beneath the verandah, and in the afternoon
goes down to the hut with prayer, and oration, and
genuflexion and benediction for the space of an hoar—
then sends round the hat for the stipend-fond, and
tables a subscription-list for a chapel in town or gospel-
teaching among the heathen of the isles. His duty is
done, unquestionably 1 Squatter, and preacher, and
pnblioan, with every other prosperous man of the bush,
may face high heaven with a “ God, I thank thee that
I am not as this man," while the poor, used np, degraded
tool hides his face from the daylight and renders his
body to the worms.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Mr. Wybert Reeve has, in his selection of the
second programme of his dramatic season at the Gaiety,
indeed catered well and generously for the public.
He has produced a play which is artistic in its every
phase, with a cast which is certainly the most power-
ml that the Sydney public has met within the
walls of a small theatre. " Diplomacy’* is a very ex-
cellent translation of a surpassingly brilliant play—a
piece in which flashing wit and exquisite pathos are
blended with the hand of a master. In “ Diplomacy"
there is no disregard of the unities, no violation of the
probabilities; and, above all, none of that sentimental
•lap-trap aimed at the pit in which so many of the so-
called modem comedies abound. The construction of
M. Sardou’s piece (for wo have both read and seen it
in the original) is faultless. In it there are no long ex-
plouations from penitent villains, no wearisome narra-
tives from bland old uncles, which invariably commence
by the old gentleman saying—" My dear Louisa, when
your father died, tweaty years ago, he confided to me a
solemn charge"—the two chairs are brought down L 0.
and the audience is in for it. No; in “ Diplomacy." as
written by the author of " La Famillo Bdnoiton," there
are no perceptible blemishes. It is a superbly artistic
picture of modern life; as the story is nnraveiled,
the mo ttf for the smallest incident in the comedy is ap-
parent; and when the curtain descends upon the fourth
act, the spectator feels as though the last tiny fragment
of stone had been fitted with a magnificent piece *f
MoeaU—he is enchanted with the beauty of the whole.
** * #
Messrs. Bolton and Saville Rowe have polished
and re-polished their translation of M.Tictorien Sardon's
masterly dialogue, until there is a sparkle and a crackle
in every line. The wit is not shallow and ephemeral,
like the scintillating quips of Mr. H. J. Byron, but it is
the terse and biting humour of a master mind. In this
admirable play are embodied many stern lessons, and
the picture of the suspected bride, in the third act, is
oae which, for delicate pathos, has, perhaps, never been
excelled in any play. “ Diplomacy " being essentially a
French drama, there occur here and there passages and
incidents which ore not at once understood by the ordi-
nary English playgoer. But such is the power of the
play, the skilfulness of the plot, and the rapidity of the
action, that any snrfaoe-blemishes in adaptation are
loet in the intense interest with which the piece is
pregnant. As a dramatic production, there is only one
word for “ Diplomacyit is a masterpiece.
• • *
The interpretation of the play was, as a whole,
equal if not superior to the famous performance of
Friends," by the London Comedy Company, at the
Mr, Wybert Reeve, as the wily diplomat, whose
well-laid scheme secures the happiness of his brother,
was admirable. The great secret of Mr. Beeve's acting
in a part like this, is not only that it is natural, but
that his actions, tones, and movements are those of a
gentleman. In the great scene in the second act, in
which he keeps Julian from striking Orloff, though he
had scarcely a dozen words to utter, he stood out the
whole time, by reason of his masterly by-play, as the
central figure. We know of no better lesson that our
young actors could take than by seeing and studying
Mr. Eeeve in this play. For by doing so they would
learn more than could be taught in a hundred theo-
retical treatises, or a year’s grinding with a professor
of elocution*
* # *
Mr. Titheradge’a Captain Boauclerc was, in onr
opinion, far and away the best thing he has done in
Sydney. Even those most intimate with his polished
style were surprised at the power he evinced. Yet
in no case did he overdo anything, even as much as by a
His love-making in the first act was
delightful love-making. There was no pump-handle
motion of the right arm, and butting forward of the
head, with which we are so painfully familiar in tyros
in the art of stage spooning. He spoke as a man would
speak, and, in the tableau in which he announces his
engagement, secured a well-deserved ovation. Again,
in the qnan-el scene, he electrified the audience by the
force of his acting, and finally, when the climax was
reached in the third act, the parqaette of the th«sf,~
was a “ sea of cambric." cre
* • *
Mr. Frank Cates played Count Orloff in a manner
which showed that he had made of a most difficnlf
character a severe and arduous study. His French
accent was capital, and his saccess complete Mr
Forbes' delineation of Baron Stain, the Russian
was full of artistic toadies, and his make up was mor«
than excellent. Algie Fairfax found rather a mild
representative in Mr. Neil O'Brien, and as Antoine
Mr. Saville was a little tawdry as to dress and a little
obtrusive as to manner.
* * #
Dora, the heroine, found in Miss Annie Mayor
a very powerful representative. This young lady is
evidently possessed of great ability, and, with a little
more study, will, we consider, rise to no inconsiderable
eminence in her profession. It will suffice to say of her
performance that it was, despite a certain hurriedness
of articulation at times, a very great effort, and one
which impressed the audience in a very marked
manner.
• * *
Miss Kate Arden, who played the Countess
Zicka, was perhaps the only mistake in the cast. This
lady, though a capital “old woman," is by no means
suited for an emotional r6le like that of the Countess in
“ Diplomacy." Her conception of the part was painfully
meagre, and her stagey gestures, though perhaps suit-
able in the “bandit cave” scene of a melodrama by
“ Monk Lewis," were sadly out of place in the drawing
room of a modem lndeed, so exaggerated wag
her by-play before stealing the Constantinople tracing
that she kept us wondering Dcra did not call in the
police to arrest her on a charge of being upon premises
with intent to commit a felony.
* * ♦
Mrs. Marion Stammers was simply “immense"
as the Marquise de Eio-Zares, and Miss Alma Santon
did the little allotted to Lady Fairfax with many smiles
and graces. The small part of Mion, a soubrette, was
allotted to Miss Howarth, who is a “ little stranger ”
and a very pretty little stranger, too. She did well,
and will do better.
* * *
The scenery was splendid, the dresses exceed-
ingly costly, and the audience most enthusiastic. Alto-
gether, we have no hesitation in pronouncing “ Diplo-
macy" to be an admirable production, and this being
the case, we trust our readers will lose no time in rush-
ing the box-office.
** * *
Ashton’s Circus is at Kempsey. On Thursday
9th inst., at Fernmount, Edward Campbell, better
known as “ Antoni, the Brazilian rider," in turning a
somersault over seven horses, unfortunately struck the
last animal, which swerved and threw him on the
ground beside the mattrass, breaking his shoulder and
causing such injuries to his spine that he died three
days afterwards. Campbell, who had been many years
with Mr. Ashton, was a clever and deserving young
man, and his death has thrown a gloom over his com.
rades.
♦* m *
Mr. W. E, Chapman, agent for the marvellous
violinist, Wilhelmj, has arrived in Sydney, and is mak-
ing arrangements for the appearance shortly of his com-
bination in this city. We will speak further of these
artists .in our next issue. They open at the Masonic
Hall on the 9th instant.
** * *
Among other items to hand by the Auckland
mail are the followings—Eiccardi’s liabilities are £2BO •
assets nil. The Sitnonsen Company give a sacred
concert and a benefit to Madame in every town they
visit. Cory expects to make a big hit in New Zealand
with “Penzance," which he produces for the first
time, at Wellington on June 27. He has engaged Miss
Leaf, and is negotiating with Eiccardi. J. J. Wallace
gave the Hokitika public “ a treat ” by playing Claude
Melnotte to Mrs. Walter Hill's Pauline. Auckland
is overdone with professors of music. Gordon Gooch,
Carl Schmitt, Swallow, Angelo Forrest, Cailhan, and
two or three others equally good reside there. H. P.
Lyons is expected in N.Z. with a company which will
include Miss Nina Tulloch and Miss Emily Fox. The
Queen’s Theatre and buildings, Dunedin, have been
sold to Mr. G. W. Elliott for £6OO, subject to a mort-
gage of £9900. The Carden Company were, at latest
dates, at Wellington, whence they go on to Napier and
Auckland.
*♦ * *
In contrast to Adam Forepangh’s advertisin
dodge, a Mr. W. L. Washbnme now offers £2OOO as a
prize for the ugliest woman in the States. She is to
travel with his circns.
** * *
“ The American Serenaders and the World’s
Grand Presentation Festival" are at Goulburn. In
connection with this, we learn from the local papers
that Mr. Henri Davies, the American pianist, “is the
only person living who performs grand selections with
his nose, elbows, and toes, and with brushes, on the
piano." We sincerely hope he is.
** * *
* The Lyceum Amateur Dramatic Club show on
Monday night at the School of Arts.
** * *
To-night (Thursday) some amateurs play “Lon-
don Assurance" at the School of Arts. As we are
very fond of amateurs we will endeavour to look in
and say something kind about them. All we ask is a
well-aired bill, and—a seat near the door. But no—we
jest. The only Teece plays Dazzls.
* * *
Our Auckland correspondent, in a letter dated
14th June, writes as follows “ Walter Reynolds and
Pollard's juvenile 'Pinafore' company opened in the
Royal on the 6th to a crammed house, and business has
continued equally good to date. On the first four
evenings many were unable to gain admission, and it is
a long time since any professional company have drawn
such large audiences in this town. Of the troupe as a
whole, it can only be spoken of in terms of praise, the
training of the youngsters reflecting great credit on
those concerned. The bright particular stars of the
troupe are Masters Esmond (Diok Deadeye) and Her-
bert Salinger (Captain Corcoran). These two prodigies
stand out prominently from all the sthers, and are an
attraction in themselves. Without doubt, Esmond’s
Deadeye is the best we have seen here —very high
praise to accord a juvenile, but almost nni.
vers ally admitted, Salinger's Captain is another
excellent performance, the boy being a good actor and
a fine singer. For the rendering of “Kind Captain,
I ye information,** the two under notice receive a triple
encore nightly. Miss Mary Pollard, who personates
Josephine, has a pleasing voice, and acts charmingly,
while Miss Maud Pollard as Sir Joseph, Miss Olive
Pollard as Buttercup, and Miss Lena Salinger as Cousin
Hebe, are each entitled to a word of praise. Master
Come Osmond acts well as Ralph, hut his singing of
some of the numbers allotted him is excruciating. A
lot of business and “gag," including “cellar-flapping,"
is introduced, and seems to be appreciated by the
audience, but what Gilbert and Sullivan would think af
this liberty is another question. The care and correct-
ness with which the opera is mounted call for the
highest commendation, and a good band helps in a
great measure to make it “go." The management
have evidently struck a “bonanza" (as Americans
say) in this “ show," an immense business having
been done in all the N.Z. towns visited. A change in
the cast will take place during the week, “ Lea Cloches
de Comeville, which is in rehearsal, being the next
attraction.
* * •
The Bandmann-Beandet Co. concluded their
BeaBon / ° n the 4th, and have gone South. Jessie Ray-
mond (Mrs. E. Glover) has been engaged, and will prove
a valuable addition to the company.
• * *
Haselmayer and wife brought their stay to a
•lose on the 4th, and at time of writing are performing
m the Waikato district. The professor crosesd swoids
with Eathbone, of the Oesbkvbb, on account of the
latter stating that his tricks were as old as the bills,
and, compared with those of Maskelyne or Heller ex-
tremely second-rate. Eathbone had all the best of it.
* • «
Lotti Wilmot, who has been ill lately, re-ap-
peared the other Sunday evening at Auckland in a


IMPOST
AND
INTERESTING ST
Head, Hark, and Inward
thing* for Evei
PURITY OF FAMILY
THE UTMOST IMI
HOP BIT'
ARE THE
Purest, Best, and Cheap*
Made.
THEY ARE COMPOUJ
HOPS, BUCHU, MAI*
DOPHYLLIN ) & D
The Oldest, Best, most
Valuable Medicines in th
addition contain all the
effective curative propert
Bitters, being the Greatest
PIER and life and health
on earth.
No disease or ill-health i
exist where these Bittei
varied and perfect are theu
They Give New Life a;
Aged and In
To Clergymen, Lawyers
Ladies, and all those i
employments cause irreg
Blood, Stomach, Bowels,
who require an Appetiser,
Stimulant, these Bitters
being highly curative, to
lating, without intoxicatin
No matter what your f
toms are, or what the di
is, use Hop Bitters. Bon
are sick, but if you only ft
able, use the Bitters at on
your life. Hundreds hav
so doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask you* Chemist, Drugg
Do not suffer yourself, oi
suffer, but use and urge t
Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitte
drugged nostrum, but the p
and best Medicine ever n
son or family should be wit
If you have nausea, wi
flatulency, dizziness, and
toms, you are suffering 1
NESS, and HOP BITTE
Cure.
If your vital forces are <
have a feeling of genen
weakness, are easily fa)
freely on going to sleep, ar<
on every slight effort, anc
feeling of melancholy and
are suffering from
General Deb
and HOP BITTERS remo*
If you have a sense of v
in the stomach; a chan
sometimes voracious, but
a morbid craving; low sp
meal, with severe pain for
eating; wind rising on th
stomach; vomiting and f
pit of the stomach, and
it; nausea, headache, or
symptoms, yon are snflorin
Dyspepsi;
and HOP BITTERS w
cure you.
If you have a dry, harsh.
NEXT SATE
——
WAYERLEY! V
CHESTERFIELD HE
CHESTERFIEJ
43 ALL OIK
SUBDIVIDED AS F
TWELVE ALLOTMENTS
fronting
1
TEN ALLOTMENTS
fronting
fcot
TWENTY-ONE ALLOTME:
fronting
«■ EACH ALLOTMENT has i
FEONTAQE, by a depth (
to 150 feet, with lam
AUDEN YALE
ar;
CONSISTING OF 33 .
subdivided os fo'
NINE ALLOTMENTS
fronting
EIGHT ALLOTMENTS
fronting
GR
SIXTEEN ALLOTMENTS
(fronting
NEXT SA T 1
BURWOOD f~6l
DEANES PADDOCK
DEANE'S PA]
DEANI
PACING THE RAIL
and
IMMEDIATELY OPPOSE
Just off
THE BURWOOI
and
DEANE STRj
GRAND BUILD
having: frontage
SABAH STREET,
GEORGE STREET NC
RAILWAY TER
and
GEORGE
terms, terms.
ONLY 3e. IN THE £
BAIT, RODD 7 &
HAVE received instructions
AUCTION, o
NEXT SATURDAY
AT 11.30 A.M
ON THE GR i
THE ABOVE
VERY CHOICE 22 AL
situate within
ONE MINUTE’S EAf
of the
BURWOOD STA
And which for SITE, SITUATION
VALUE
CANNOT BE BE
THE FRONTAGES vary fron
each, by the uniform DEPTJ
THE TITLE IS TORR]
and
THE TERMS REMARK
viz. :
Only 2a. in the £ Deposit, 3s. in the
and the BALANCE in three
ments, with interest, at 6
SALE PLAN AND LITHOGP
ROOMS.
FREE RAILWAY TI(
Further particulars from the AUC
BAIT, ROOD, AND
SATURDAY. J
ON THE SBOHI
BARD ELL P
THE SECTIONS BETWEEN
BROOK AND WALLI (
BY THE ACR]
SECTION J contains
K ditto
L ditto ...
M ditto
O ditto
P ditto
Q ditto
City Catering Co.’s rooms ]
full.
American Waltham Watches
prizes Melbourne International
Higher awards than any exhibitors
—Any.
Mr. F. J. Bouffier, owner
hrnnner” vineyard, has received
ferent prizes from the various exh
are advertised in The Bulletin.
The big lime light exhibitic
behalf of:the Hop Bitters Co., was
worthy of the inventive brain
Stewart.
Your friend can be cured ol
Qarmove’s improved artificial e:
once for book and testimonials frei
man Jones and Co., sole agents
Sydney.—[Advt.]
“ I have analysed unoriginal
Mixture, and I certify that it it
uncoloured teas, and admirably fls
and harmless scenting, which rend
I recommend it as being a whole
article of diet.—Karl Thkodobe
chemist.”—Advt.
We think that all readers
when we say that the current nun
Asian Sketcheb is beyond doubt
paper which has yet been produce
whether regard be paid to drawing
ing. The portrait of Rear Admi
william is a most artistic piece
vigour of the front page engr
Ma‘ ch,” finds a parallel in the
“ Mount Larkins, Lake Wakatij
drawn by Mr. J. E. Ashton, and ei
—and In the airy grace of the cl
“At the Bazaar.” We congratuli
the Sketches on their enterprise i
”k A D/Tl?om nnm a -»t xr«TT«
lecture entitled "The Law of Population, and the
Struggle for Existence."
• # •
‘‘Les Cloches de Corneville” waa produced at
Christchurch (N.Z ) by amateurs the other day.
* * *
It must have been a very malicious person,
indeed, who started the report that the Eomahys are
to have a finger in the pie on the occasion of the
amateur theatrical performance in aid of the Ashfleld
Infants’ Home. The conduct of the fiend who could
circulate such a rumour is more than malicious : it*s
small caps., sweet comp.—diabolical.
♦ * #
There is no need for alarm or holding back.
The Bomanys are out of it this time. A large attend-
ance may, therefore, be anticipated.
* # *
Johnny Hall opens at the Opera House on
Saturday. •* Our Girls,” new act drop, and American
chairs. J. L. should, and no doubt will, have a big
reception.
** . «
Montague-Turner Opera Company a great
success in Brisbane.
Erratum.
lir about half of the impressions of this issue there
has been a transposition of part of a paragraph. The
sentence commencing •• Now when we lady and gentle-
men commoners,” in the first column of " Pepper and
Salt,’ should follow the Marriage Advertisement
quoted from the E. News. In about 10,000 copies the
sentence alluded to is incorrectly placed. Somebody
in our mechanical department has “ got ’em again.”
Radical Journalism.
The Melbourne Age says that its circulation is
five times that of any other Melbourne morning
paper, and three times that of the other morning
journals put together. The Age is a really
wonderful paper for a penny.
LATE SPORTING.
The second Orientals defeated the Pyrmon
Acme Football Club, on Moore Park, by 1 goal 3 tri e
to 3 tries.
The Hon. James White’s long-priced Musket-
Sylvia colt will be shipped from Auckland for Sydney
in two or three weeks’ time.
The horses Wombine and Captain Cook run
three-quarters of a mile, for a wager, at Picton on Satur-
day. There are other events on the board.
A billiard match for <£2s a-side, between Messrs.
M'Kenna and Roberts, came off on Monday night at
Mr. P. Riley’s Supreme Court Hotel, and resulted in an
asy victory for the latter.
The following were the successful competitors
on Saturday in the Torpedo Rifle Club Handicap, 500
and 600 yards; 7 shots each: Private Asprey, first
prize; Sergeant Board, second prize; Corporal Ham-
mond, third prize.
Gn Monday, a handball match for .£5 aside
45 aces up, was played at the Rising Sun Ball Court)
between A. Dillon and Ayre. The contest was played
with soft balls, and ended in favour of Dillon. Scores :
Dillon, 45; Ayre, 18, with start.
Adelaide Park race meeting, Monday:—Hurdles •
Prank Hewitt 1, Veno 2. La Roi 3. Handicap : Aurora
1, Vagabond 2. Gaspipe 3. Steeplechase: Right Bower
1, Clifton 2, WarriorS. Plying Handicap: Struck Oil
1, Vagabond 2, Spree 3. Selling Race: Little Dick 1.
A race for .£25 a-side for half a mile came off at
West Maitland on Tuesday, between Mr. J. Moore’s
Spec and Mr. J. Brown’s Myrtle; the former won easily.
A match is made between Myrtle, catch weight, and
Mr. Mayo’s Hesperian, Bst. 101 b., for hall a mile for
£5O a-side, to come off on the sth July.
A handball match took place on Saturday at the
Rising Sun Ball Court, between Messrs. Dillon and
Farrell and Messrs. Keenan and Walsh, and resulted,
after a fine contest, in a victory for the former. The
handball players visited Gladesville on Thursday, and
gave the inmates an exhibition of some first-class play.
Those who send their money out of Sydney for
sweeps should give Auckland (N.Z.) a turn. H. N.
Abbott and Theo. Brown. of that town, advertise in our
columns a £10,(P0 consultation on the Melbourne Cup.
Both are honest and trustworthy men, and are well
known in New Zealand. Mr. Abbott has successfully
conducted sweeps for the past 12 years.


BRIEF MENTION.
Taken on the spot—the small-pox.
More agony for vehicle drivers and passengers
on Oxford-street.
“ Flattery—thy name is Slattery.” Shake-
speare as quoted by Annis Montague.
The larrikins of Sydney will be delighted to
hear that the young Princes wear billycock hats.
A telegram from London leads us to the conclu-
sion that the Hurley bird has caught the —capitalists.
Desperate efforts by the Ekka to imitate The
Bulletin. Can a sprightly thing come out of Nazareth ?
Never any room in the tramcars at 6 p.m. People
have to stand. The upright man becomes ungodly, and
swears.
It “doesn’t look well” to see tie vice-regal
shandrydan used matutinally at Belmore Markets as a
vegetable cart.
Aucklanders are giving the Chinamen who reside
there a lively time of it. Housewives also refuse to buy
their vegetables.
It is stated that the Americans will hold their
annual picnic on the 4th of July, in spite of the absence
of “ The Vagabond.”
Wanted to call at this office, the man in this
world who, on being presented with a testimonial, was
not “ taken utterly by surprise.”
la it right that policemen bringing prisoners
from suburban watchhouses should use the ordinary
passenger ’buses for that purpose ?
On dit that the daughter of a gentleman high in
the Victorian Civil Service has eloped with a titled
official dignitary in an adjacent colony.
We see the name of Parkes mentioned in con-
nection with the recent prize fight. We hope it wasn’t
—but really—it couldn’t—no, surely not.
It is not a fact that a policeman, whilst rushing
out Randwick-wards to witness the late fatal fight, was
run over by a funeral procession and killed.
The Americans in Sydney will hold a picnic on
" the glorious 4th of July.” They will probably choose
a respectable place. There are to be ladies present.
The Hobart Mercury is evidently becoming
popular. A libel action against it will be heard next
month. We hope they’ll import a jury from Sydney.
In last Saturday’s Herald a genius advertised
an “anti-preventive" of small-pox. We wonder
whether he has on hand a supply of sick Mongolians P
In Queensland, the other day, a number of
Celestials were dragged off to gaol for gambling. Yet
white men are allowed to gamble with the totalisator.
J. R. Don, a Sydney native, while giving evidence
the other day at a Melbourne police court, said that
Victoria was “ only the toe-nail ’’ of New South Wales.
Hooray 1
The metropolitan papers are following up our
lead about narrow streets in new Sydney. Two birds
with one stone : Rectifying narrow journalism and
narrow streets.
“ Man is the noblest work of God.” —Pope.
This, however, does not include Chinamen, or corpora-
tion work contractors. These are a touch above the
work of anyone.
The will of the late Czar has been proved. Only
£4,800,000, poor sainted martyr, as the result of over
twenty years’ unflagging—(do not print unflagging, dear
comp.)—industry.
Yet another libel action ! A Cowra medico, has
sued the Free Press for ten—not thousand—pounds.
The most reasonable price we ever knew to be set on a
plaintiff’s character.
At a football meeting at Qneanbeyan, the other
evening, it was proposed, seconded, and carried with
enthusiasm, “ That Dr. 8. L. Richardson act as honorary
surgeon to the club."
Mot by Mr. Call, P.M., of Melbourne. Female
vagrant: “ Please let me off, sir—l have a situation to
goto." Mr. Call: “You are in a situation now, but
it is a very peculiar one.”
The Echo mentions a painting by Mr. Hern, of
Pitt-street, and concludes by stating that its size is 30
inches by 20. Given, to find the value of this work of
art at £1 per column — Echo measure.
A Dubbo man has surrendered his estate.
Liabilities, £lO5 17s. 2d ; assets, £5. Mr. Sandeman,
official assignee. At this rate, a man might almost as
well be a creditor as an official assignee.
This is how that bright little paper, the West-
ern Champion (Blackall, Q.) puts it:—“ Blight preva-
lent this week, and our obliging boss printer wields the
reporter’s pencil and the editorial pen.”
Kerosene isn’t a circumstance compared to tri-
copherous. An N.Z. man named J. 8. Smithson tri-
copberoused, and then went too near a candle. He
immediately lost hair, whiskers, and beard.
A claim at Freeburg, Ovens R., Vic., in which
two Chinamen were recently smothered, caved last
week and buried a white miner. Serious injury has
thus been done to its previous good character.
A country contemporary says :—“ Last Thurs-
day there was not a single person locked up in Sydney
for drunkenness.” Was there a policemen’s org—at
least, a constabulary picnic on that day ? If so. where
held ?
In the Adelaide Parliament, Mr. Catt, M.P., in
a measure that was before the House, rose to move an
amendment on the 20th claws. His remarks were
generally regarded as being of a more a-mew-sing than
of a pnrr-sonal nature.
Charles Henry Smith has been convicted in
Melbourne of selling indecent photographs. When he
comes out again he’ll have to start life afresh. How
would managing a popular picnic ground suit him ? He
might replenish his stock.
It is said that the Corrangula Antimony Mining
Co. are about to sue the Macleay Chronicle tor alleged
libel. In other words, an antimony mining company
is going in for gold-mining. There’ll be a big dividend
in that company shortly.
Just before setting out for the criminal court
the other morning, that rising barrister, Longfellow,
wrote on the door-ticket at his chambers: “At Darling,
hurst.” A funny man, also of the long robe, added to
the notice: “ Back in three months."
J. M’Connell, committed for trial at Benalla
for horse-stealing, said he had been put up to it by
Hugh Hart, a brother of Steve Hart; but this Hart
denied in the witness-box. Of course. How could
people say such things about Hughie P
Sir Thomas Campbell, editor of the West Aus-
tralian, will prosecute the publishers of the Inquirer
at his own expense, the Attorney-General not objecting.
The lawyers in all the colonies now regard journalism
as a very profitable business —for them.
The EvkningNews speakingof the fall of bogus
plaster at the Hotel de Ville, says:—“ Fortunately
there was no one underneath when the fall occurred."
What the News really meant, however, was, “unfor-
tunately there were no aldermen underneath."
A recent issue of the Evening Startler says :
—“The Rev. Cannon Walsh will preach at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral to-morrow." We always thought the big
gun’s name was Ellis. However, we live and learn—at
least some of us do, and the rest turn reporters.
Francis Brown sued the Melbourne Herald for
libel. The S. M. Herald’s telegraphic correspondent
wires that it was a paltry case. Judge reserved his
decision. Some people never profit by the most
forcible teachings. Why didn’t Francis secure a jury
of four?
The present English Government are un-
doubtedly true humorists. They have made an alteration
in the Army Discipline Act, by which soldiers on active
service are, for certain offences, “ to be allowed the
option” of receiving a flogging or undergoing a nominal
imprisonment 1
There is a political celebrity at Cooktown named
John Davies, and the Cooktown Herald asks why he
shouldn’t be a C.M.G., too? The paper says that he
has worked hard for it, and that hobnobbing with
Governors and Premiers has altogether unfitted him
for the humbler walks of life.
A youngster named Walsh dived after dark, and
rescued a drowning girl, who had fallen in while getting
water. The Ipswich journal from which we get the
facts, proceeds to record how be also dived and rescued
the bucket. We have an idea that all efforts to restore
it to consciousness were in vain.
We clip this from the Herald : —“ A. King. —
Your brother is in Sydney. Call or send your address
to C.K., Pierce’s Hotel, Argyle-place." Brevity is evi-
dently an unknown art with the advertiser. How much
more concise would it have been had he simply written:
“Your brother, A. King, to see you."
The representative, now in Sydney, of a Gam-
bettist journal of Paris, says that the Tunisian cam-
paign is a deliberate move to accustom the French
troops to operate in the field and to stand fire. Apres,
la revanche i This is a tip for Bismarck, who yells for
his Bulletin whenever an Australian mail is in.
Dr. Somerville —he of the long white curls,
and the harmonium-playing son—has been giving five
weeks’ services in St. Petersburg, and left on April 11
for Moscow. And the Russian police persist in rooting
in cellars and shops in search of tho Nihilists, and
never think of opening the works of that harmonium.
A large number of the supernumerary staff of
the Education Department have received notice to quit
on 60th inst. In the present state of things it will be
hard for many of them to find employment. If Civil
servants are to be dispensed with wholesale in this
fashion all they’ll be able to do will be to hunt the
small-pox.
The coal miners at Hamilton Pit have received
notice that they will be required to work two additional
hours daily without extra pay. Here’s a slant for a
Herald leader. If the miners had proposed to have
two hours’ extra pay without work what a drenching
with political economy the "misguided men” would
have got!
A new weekly was announced to appear in
London on April 1 (All Fools’Day). The proprietor
naively intimated “ the chief want which it is intended
to supply is the proprietor’s want of money." But
there are few people who, without money, can succeed
in making bread—not to speak about butter—in a paper
of any kind.
Said one of the Domain apostles on Sunday
afternoon :—“ Lasc night, my Ker-rishtyn fren’s, I laid
on my bed from II o’clock till 3 a’ singin’ ‘ Rescue the
sinners, do,’ an’ soch like ’ims’; an’ then I got out,
an’ knelt down in the cold, an* praved for all on yer."
How would a statement like that affect an application
for divorce ?
Says the Evening News, in a current eventful
note: —“ Englishmen are, perhaps, hardly in a position
to criticise too severely the proceeding of the French
Government with regard to Tunis.” What we want to
know is simply this: Who is in a position to criticise
“ too severely ” any proceeding—especially under
N.S.W. libel law ?
A well-known teetotalistic M.P., who is more
celebrated for his love of equitation than for his pro-
ficiency in the art, was the other day on the Pennant
Hills road. “ Is this the way to Ryde ? ’’ asked the legisla-
tor of acountry bumpkin. “ No,” replied the yokel, “ I be
darned if it is : turn yer toes in, ye beggar, and pull yer
pants over yer socks 1"
Even the wickedest man may recover from small-
pox. Forinstance, there’s North, the Wellington barber,
who bolted ’Frisco-wards with £4600 in sweep deposits.
At Honolulu, he went to see the king, got drunk, and
took the small-pox. But now he runs a saloon within
the Golden Gate, and has his face full of pits and his
pockets full of money.
We of Australia have not yet advertised our-
selves thoroughly in England. In one of the leading
London papers of April 30 the only reference of any
kind vouchsafed to Australian affairs is contained in a
paragraph about the recent visit of the Earl of Elles-
mere. How interested we all were in the Earl 1 What
a sensation he made here 1
A half-caste Chinese boy, five years old, has
been found dead in a waterhole at Scarsdale, Victoria.
His throat was cut, and there was a gunshot wound in
his leg. Nothing has been elicited to throw any light
on the case, but the police have their eye upon the
doctors, suspicious that the boy may have been treated
for extra-uterine foetation or something.
“ Three boys, 15 years of age, were charged with
assault and robbery on another boy at Hawthorne
bridge, Melbourne. All were sent to the Reformatory.”
The young scamps who stop little boys at Glebe Point,
overhaul their pockets, pick whatever takes their fancy,
and filch the cakes and oranges from their school-
lunch, will please accept of this intimation.
North, the Wellington sweep defaulter, who
cleared out of Wellington with £4600 belonging to his
constituents, told a New Zealand man who recently met
him in Frisco that he was going to lecture in the States
on the evil consequences of gambling and the disastrous
results entailed on young men by their weakness for
sweeps. It’s cruel of him to “rub it in ” like this.
A recent telegram from Temora says: “Near
the prospectors’ claim, Cain is now able to raise payable
gold.” Assuming the above to be true, there must have
been a great miscarriage of justice “in those days."
It Cain is really Abel, he should have been tried for
committing suicide—not murder, —and a great inj ustice
has of course been done to him. Darley is a better law
expounder than Moses after all.
At the prize fight, the other day, the police, as
usual, were " in at the death.” The combatants were
Booth and Killen. Booth was Killen and Killen soon
got into the past participle, when the festivities ter-
minated. Killen dropped dead, and as he offered no
resistance to the foorce, he was instantly arrested.
Booth now says the police have got into the wrong tent
—it was the other man who did it.
In spite of weak-kneed Bible-revisors, and a
general tendency to accept the toning down of Hell
into Hades, there are some faithful. Our sparkling
contemporary, the Presbyterian, in its last issue
remarks: —“ A few weeks ago we were sweltering in
the sun. Above and below there was heat, and we were in
the condition of those between two fires.” How we do
enjoy straight talk, like this, to be sure.
A lady correspondent writes to say there are
only four Romanists in the Penrith school at present—
not five, as incorrectly stated last week. We are also
ravished to hear that one of the four is to be shortly
married to “ a rising Temora solicitor.”
Four little Roman girls, blushing blithe and free.
Up comes Temora man—.hen there were three.
Solemnly says the Armidale Chronicle -.
“According to a London paper. Miss Fanny Daven-
port, the American actress, is having made for her a
glass dress. It will have a long train of woven glass,
and will be elaborately trimmed with glass lace. The
texture, it is averred, will have the appearance of a
fine French satin, only much more brilliant.” The con-
tiding Chronicle evidently fails to “ see through" the
joke.
“ The latest cure for the small-pox is :—Two
onions cut into slices steeped in rum for eight hours,
the onions to be eaten at the end of that time." This
is from the Noos. Alfred has had processions of
“ dead-beats ’’ calling, ever since, to inquire what be-
comes of the rum. And when he says he don’t know
who gets it, the probabilities flash upon them in a mo-
ment, and they strike for the office of the other penny
daily.
At the distribution of blankets to the aboriginals
at Bathurst, on Queen’s Birthday, an amusing, if not
instructive, incident occurred. At the close of the
ceremony the C.P S. called for three cheers for the
Queen. Whereupon a dissipated darkey yelled out
“ Free cheers for Kaween. He’s the cove. Hoo—
ray !’’ Now it’s only the very ingenious man who can
sandwich an objurgation between “ the two ends " of a
word.
Joaquin Miller’s new book, “ The Shadows of
Shasta,*’ exposes the hideous outrages perpetrated
upon the Western Indians. The N. Y. Herald endorses
it, to the " ineffable disgrace of a Government which
makes its army the instrument of oppressing and
pillaging the weak, and the tool of pimps and thieves.”
We wonder how much the publication of a sentence
like that would cost in Sydney, even were the allegations
true?
At Wilcannia, on the night of the race-settling,
Harry Rowe, the trainer of Mr. Miller’s horses, became
the recipient of two or three cheques, amounting to
between £2OO and £3OO. Ho woke up about three o’clock
in the morning, and found a man in his bedroom Search-
ing his clothes, evidently expecting to make a haul.
Rowe quietly said to him, “ Put my clothes back when
you have done with them; Mr. O’Leary has my
money."
From the Presbyterian : “ Large portions of
Scripture have been, in the public mind, and consequent-
ly in the Christian mind, more or less connected with the
comical. For example, the stories of the fall, of Jonah,
and of the ark, have come to be mostly a theme for joking
remarks. It is hard for a Christian to study these
without some ridiculous suggestion entering his mind.”
And yet people pretend the Scotch have no sense of
humour.
If their Honors the judges only knew how it
was that the jurors in a recent case arrived at
so speedy a conclusion, they’d order that a Are be pro-
vided in the jury room. A weak-chested or rheumatic
juror isn’t by any means likely to haggle long in a cold
den for the sake of a few hundreds or thousands belong-
ing to another fellow. Justice, like charity, begins at
home; and self-preservation is the first law of nature,
even in a juryman.
Is it possible there are no stray poets down
Kiama way ? Eead this clip“ A fishing party from
Kiama were blown out to sea, and afterwards rescued
by the steamer Civility.” What the writer should have
written is this —
A fishing gang from Kiama were blown to sea.
And then picked up by the steamer Ci-vi-li-tee
Fancy a glorious subject like the above in the hands of
Phil M’Carroll—or Sir ’Enry.
A London writer cynically observes that we had
illuminations in 1856 to celebrate the conclusion of
peace with Russia, and cynically asks “ Why do we not
celebrate the peace with the Boers in the same manner ?
Not to do so is in my mind to be guilty of a mean spite
towards our late antagonists, and it is as much as to say
it was neither worth fighting nor leaving off fighting
with them. For the same reason I consider it bad taste
not to issue a medal to the troops engaged in our latest
war in South Africa.”
We’re glad at last to find a man who calculated
on making money out of a libel case in trouble. The
cross-examination of M'Minn, the plaintiff in the Mana-
watn, N.Z., character.redeeming law suit, was lively.
He admitted leaving Turakina suddenly two or three
days before he was to have been married, without giv-
ing notice to h f s “ intended ” bride or anyone subse-
quently. He was summoned for the wedding feast, and
arrested for the debt. Mr. M’Minn is certainly one
of the few people who neither eat their cake nor have it.
Says the Redfern Times : —“ Botany is strewn
with Chinamen. The other morning, upon a lady re-
fusing to purchase the unnaturally-forced vegetables
from one who called, he retaliated in an angry manner,
* Me no likee vou ! Me no likee you!’ What will the
future bring forth ?” Probably a marriage between the
pair who have quarrelled. The ways of woman are hard
to understand, and the course of true love, which has
often been interrupted by less important and less poetic
things than highly-manured cabbages, never did run
smooth.
Twenty-two years ago a gentleman applied
for an appointment in the Queensland native police
force, and renewed the application at intervals of a few
years, but invariably met with the reply that there
were no vacancies, until about six months ago, when he
was informed that there was an insurmountable obstacle
to his employment—hehad not had sufficient colonial ex-
perience. Yet every day new-chum duffers are being
appointed. A far Northern paper says it is believed
that the sub-inspectors are in future to come from
Exeter Hall.
The N.S.W. Fish Co., after a stormy meeting of
shareholders, has given up the retail business and is
going into cheaper quarters. The manager therefore
is sad, and Withers. We trust, however, the wholesale
trade in the finny tribe will recoup the shareholders
jew-tish-ently. What we recommend the company to
do if it feels anyway sad is to get an “ organ.” Frozen
beef has got one, and—and so has the gospel tent. We
forgot though, the latter has “ gone up.” However,
accidents will happen in the best regulated Christian
associations.
The Mayor of Dunedin, Mr. Ross, and Rich-
mond Thatcher are flatly contradicting each other.
His worship’s highly respectable bushy white hair, un-
approachable black coat and continuations, and imma-
culate collar and shirt-front, convince all who know
him that he isn’t in the wrong. The trouble is all over
a benefit for the Tararua fund. The sapient Mayor
says that the Tararua Committee in Dunedin was
formed “ not to receive subscriptions, but to ascertain
if such were required I” As if the wives and children
of dead sailors could live on air.
Story told by a country blacksmith: —“ I took
the work (to make gates for the local hospital) as a con-
tract for a certain amount. When I was first asked to
make it as a present, I simply told them I would have
nothing to do with it, that there were plenty more
smiths in town—let them make it. Then Mr. asked
me what it was worth. I told him I would make it for
£l5, but he said ‘ No, yon can make your bill £24, and
if you give a cheque for £l2 as a donation to the
hospital, then we shall get £l2 more from Govern-
ment.’ ” The Government milch cow again.
A “ Sydney friend,” it is alleged, recently wrote
thus to a Melbourne man: —“ Pray, if you know good
Mr. J. S. Butters, tell him to come over to Sydney.
His letter in the Argus is sweetly convincing. Are
they vexed in Melbourne with his manly words ? If
Mr. Butters will come we will get up a nice tea-meeting
(we understand that he is a strict Rechabite, and has
never tasted beer or spirits in his life), at which many
Sydney friends will be proud to meet him. Can you
tell me if it is true he is studying for the church ? At
any rate he is a good, noble-minded, truthful man."
Says the Manning River Times—no connec-
tion with the London rag of the same name:—“ A
button has been left at our office which was taken from
the crop of a turkey. It evidently has been undergoing
the process of digestion, showing a considerable reduc-
tion in thickness, and the centre part has been com-
pletely eaten away.” What we want to know is this :
Who ate the turkey ? We would also like to hear if
the Manning editor adopts the new-fangled plan of
mesmerising the bird he fancies, or does he go for it
with the old-fashioned weapons—a three-bushel bag,
and a big waddy.
The lawyers are quarrelling among themselves
at Charters Towers, —which is, of course,a good omen for
the residents. Messrs. Morgan and Swan wick are at log-
gerheads, and the other day a brisk passage at arms oc-
curred in the Warden’s Court, the casus belli being the
concluding prayer in Mr. Morgan’s pleadings in the case
brought by John Parry against William Stevenson.
The prayer was to this effect —“ That the counsel for the
Elaintiff be restrained from filing any more pleas in this
onorable Court, until he has learnt some of the first
principles of law and the practice thereof.” Mr. Swan-
wick strongly objected, and the Warden said that any
further pleadings of the kind would not be received.
A. H. Cunningham, Esq., J.P., of Rangiora
(N.Z.), can’t be rubbed out easily. He heard a case the
other day, in which a man was charged with assaulting
his wife, and he sentenced the man to keep away from his
own house for a week! We always thought that this was
the kind of punishment which most Benedicts yearned
for. We can now understand how it is that, when a
fellow “ gets ’em again,” he always thinks (vide Warren’s
“Diary of a Late Physician”) that he is being
chased by a devil or a Newfoundland dog, and not by his
wife. Mr. Cunningham, in passing such a sentence,
only showed how foolish it is to measure other people’s
corn by one’s own bushel.
The Wilcannia Times and the Grazier of
that ilk are not “ cousins.” The Times accuses the
Grazier of not publishing full reports of meetings, and
the editor of the new paper retorts by saying that he
doesn’t fill his journal with rubbish, and publishing
what he alleges to be a full report of a speech recently
delivered by a local municipal magnate, who said
among other things that “ surrounded as we are by the
fawning puerilities of celestial conglomerations, the
human intellect yet betrays its denotating qualities by
the genial origin of obstetric hysenas and by the widely
increasing circulation of the Wilcannia Times." And
as the Grazier has a satirical bard as well as an imagina-
tive reporter, it has all the best of the trouble.
The following clip seems to us incredible :—" A
Melbourne constable attempted to commit suicide at
Melbourne last week by swallowing a quantity of elec-
trical rat poison (alias a rat-trap) in a glass of beer.
Pecuniary difficulties were the cause of the act.” This
doesn’t say much for the respectability of persons “ run
in” down South. There was a time—before the Kellys
demoralised the “ foorce” —when a poor policeman
would make as paying a show as Dominic Sonsee or
Lotti Wilmot, but alas! those happy days are fled
What puzzles us most to know, however, is this—why
in the name of sulphur did this misguided man want to
poison himself with electrical rat-bane when he had a
pint of beer already before him ? Roseby says the two
are quite synonymous.
The editor of the Weekly Advocate is ‘get-
ting quite skittish. In an article—” Ourselves in Ade'
laide,” he is delivered of the following brilliant
passage“ The boys at Prince Alfred College affect to
be at work. That we may see how the thing is done
we take a turn in the gymnasium. Leap-frog—one
performer; climbing a greasy pole—two; vaulting the
high bar—one. The place is a really admirable school
of physical exercises, and must be of great benefit if
used carefully.” Now how in the name of thunder could
“one performer” play leap-frog all by himself; and
again, who ever heard of a “ greasy ” pole being, placed
in a college play-ground ? Did we not know that it was
a very holy man who wrote this stuff, we should place
it in the category of “ an after luncheon communica-
tion.”
This is how Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner, puts it: —“ Mr. Marsland, solicitor, has decided
to pitch his camp at Charters Towers. Law is one of
the necessities of our civilization. For ourselves, we
hate it, and when we get a lot of duffer subscribers in
arrears we wipe them out. We almost wish we could
push back time to the days of twelve paces and pistols.
The line was then sharply defined between gentlemen
and cads. Now, if we insult some snob or other he
takes the law of us. The law, then, being a necessary
evil, it is for the good of the community that we should
get its most qualified professors. This is a fine field
for law ; not a doubt about that. To be a good lawyer,
it is said, you must be three parts rogue, and the
remainder a composite composition. We do not know
whether Mr. Marsland has the necessary roguish
elements among his legal accomplishments. If not, he
will be soon qualified here. We hope he is honest for a
change." The neatest little essay we’ve read for a Ion?
time.
The reporter of a certain daily paper waited on
a member of the Government and asked him what had
been done by the Cabinet in respect to the outbreak of
small-pox. Whereupon, so goes the story—and si non
e vero, &c. —the Minister gave him a bit of his mind,
afforded him an opportunity of closely inspecting his
big toe, and declared that the paper he represented was
a disgrace to Sydney. This reminds us a little of a story
told of Sir Henry Parkes. A Herald reporter one day
attended the Colonial Secretary’s office to report a de-
putation. There happened to be another deputation
waiting, and when the first lot went out Sir Henry be-
gan to write. The messenger enquired whether the se-
cond “ crowd ” should come in, whereupon the Premier
said “Yes, as soon as I’ve finished this writing—in
about two minutes.” Then the Herald’s recording
angel, who was standing by—and who, by the way, had
been sent for by Sir Henry—enquired whether he should
remain until the deputation came in. Sir Henry looked
up from his paper and loftily replied, in his childish
treble, “ You may please yourself, sir—to me it is him.
material.”
Louis Hustin, the New Caledonian escapee,
the validity of whose detention was the other day
argued at Brisbane, was formerly a wine merchant, and
was in 1868 sentenced to 15 years’ hard labour tor frau-
dulent insolvency and falsification of documents. It
appeared that, after serving this sentence, he would
have to spend another 15 years in New Caledonia under
strict surveillance.
Perhaps the finest mill in the colonies is Portus’,
built on the banks of the Hunter, at Morpeth. It is
unoccupied, bat presents a first-class chance for a
paper or tweed factory. The machinery has been re-
moved to the Lion Mills, in Kent-street, Sydney, and is
considered the beat even now in the colonies. The
enterprise of the man who placed it there a quarter of a
century back brought him to ruin.
Inspector Fitzgerald and his party have again
vainly endeavoured to deliver blankets to the Endeavour
and Cape Bedford blacks. They found tracks, but
didn’t see a single native in the whole time. The party
resorted to the old stratagem of stripping and strapping
revolvers to their backs, but the ruse had been tried too
recently, and the black brother would not be caught,
even to be clothed with a red blanket.
An “ anti-shouting ” meeting has been held at
Burra, S.A., and a temperance society started under
separate clauses—first, for total abstinence, and second,
for those who agree to drink at meals only. A resolu-
tion moved by the Rev. Mr. Richmond, and adopted,
was as follows:—“We, the undersigned, agree to
abstain from drink as a means of fellowship, except so
far as it forms part of a natural meal.”
Late May town (Palmer) crnshings: Ida p.c.
60 tons for 2440 z. gold; Limestone Creek claim, 4 tons
7cwt. for 1540 z.; Just in Time, 21 tons, 420 z. “ If,”
remarks the Cooktown Herald, “we had a through
railway, with even £5O return tickets, there would be a
rush from the Mall at Sandhurst, and the Comer at
Ballarat, and little Maytown would speedily become
as large and prosperous as Pleasant Creek.”
A case presenting somewhat remarkable features
was that in which James O’Njal was at Goondiwindi
Police Court charged with having committed an in-
decent assault on a servant named Emma Bishop. The
charge was subseiuently altered to one of common
assault, and defendant, who appears to have —d la
Tarqain—entered the girl’s bed-room at night, was fined
£2 and costs —in default, one month in gaol.
At Buninyong, Yio., a family became seriously
ill by consuming milk yielded by a diseased cow. Blood
was found in the milk by the Government analyst. At-
tention has since been directed to the fact that the
milch cows of Melbourne are monstrously neglected,
and “ browse more than half their time upon stones
while knee-deep in mud.” Of course it would be
libellous to say that anything like this ever occurs in
Sydney. At Dar —but here we stop.
The Lithgow puddlers and their employers have
quarrelled. The masters, it would appear, wish to so
reduce pay that the puddlers’ average wages would be
455. per week. The men contend that this figure would
not be fair for a man working at a furnace in N.S.W.,
where tho summer is so hot that one cannot work more
than halt time, and where the proprietors try to take
advantage in the winter. They further say that a
puddler who works 5£ days in England gets £ll7s. 6d.
a correspondent of the Tamworth
News, sensibly points out that one of the most potent
of the causes that have led to the destruction of the
Australian aboriginals has been the substitution of blan-
kets for opossum-cloaks. Among other things, “ J.C.”
says:—“ A friend of mine has seen a little black infant,
unable to speak or walk, who divided his time between
sacking his mother’s breast and smoking her pipe;
putting up his own little hand to take it from her Ups.”
At Cowra Small Debts Court, on June 13,
Francis Pym Flockton sued Joseph Charles RyaU,
proprietor of the Cowra Free Press (from the report
published in which we write this paragraph) for £lO for
libel. The cause of action arose out of a paragraph in
which plaintiff was stated “to have his qualifications
(if any) blighted by alcohoL” Plaintiff deposed,
among other things, that he had practised medicine for
20 years, but was not a licensed practitioner; had always
done his best in the interests of the public. In cross-
examination, however, he admitted that he had been
convicted several times at Cowra of drunkenness and
obscenity: but had never attended a patient while
drunk; his habits had not been those of a steady,
temperate man. Plaintiff was non-suited on the ground
that there was no evidence of proprietorship on the part
of defendant.
The slander case in which Rowland Thomas
Campbell sued Thomas Scully and Ann ScuUy (his wife)
at Yass District Court, for £2OO damages, excited great
local interest. The nature of the action may be gathered
from the pleas filed by the defendants, which were as
follow : —“ Ist, The female defendant (by way of equit-
able defence) that at the time of the alleged grievance
she was the mother of an unmarried daughter, of the
age of 16 years, and the said female defendant, having
just cause and reasonable grounds for believing, and
being satisfied, that the plaintiff had seduced her said
daughter, accused the plaintiff thereof, which is the
said grievance; 2nd, As to the residue of the alleged
slander, not guilty." His Honor Judge M’Farland, in
summing up, said the case was the most painful he had
ever listened to in his experience of 20 years. The jury,
after an hour’s deliberation, found a verdict for defend-
ants. The decision was received with applause. Costs
were certified for on the higher scale.


The Referee
SPORTING FIXTURES.
EACINQ.
West Maitland, Myrtle v. Elos, | mile June 27.
Victoria Amateur Turf Club Meeting July 1.
Bockhampton July 6, 7.
Hay July 12.
Newcastle (Special) .....July 12.
Clarence Eiver July 13,14.
Deniliquin July 19, 20.
Maryborough (Q.) July 21, 22.
Peak Downs Turf Club July 21, 22.
Y.B.C. Steeplechase Meeting July 23.
Jerilderie Jockey Club Meeting July 27.
Bchuca Annual Meeting August 4.
Ballarat T. C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville August 11, 12.
Sydney TattersalTs August 13.
Oympie August 24, 25.
Hawkesbury E. C. Annual August 25, 27.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting September 3,6, 8, 10.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting October 15.
Kensington Park Meeting October 22.
Murrnmbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer meeting December.
AQUATICS.
Hearn v. White, for Championship of New
Zealand, and £lOO aside July.
J. Lay cock v. H. Solomon, £5O July 2.
North Shore E.C.—-Junior Double Sculls July 2.
Amateur Sculling Bace.—
Mr. A. Finlayson’s Trophy July 23,
Sydney Bowing Club Begatta July 30.
Boydv. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Boss August.
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Bush v. Laycock September.
Walker Whisky Trophy September.
N.S.W. Bowing Association Begatta October 15.
FOOTBALL.
Balmain v. Wallaroo June 25.
University v. Wallaroo July 2.
New South Wales v. Victoria, at Melbourne July.
PEDESTEIANISM.
Martin v. Morgan (3yds.), 120 yards.
Association Ground June 27.
Cooper v. Kenny, 150 yards, £5O, Nelligan June 27.
Six days Go-as-you-please, Ballarat June 27.
O’Connor v. Everley, 1 mile, £4O, Botany July 2.
J. Warton v. C. Brennan, 48 hours’ go-as-you-
please, £lOO, Grenfell July 2.
Oddfellows’ Handicap, Bicbmond July 16.
COUESING.
Australian Club (Shibnal Plate) July 8.
New South Wales Club (Woodstock Meeting)...July 12.
Victoria Club July 13.
Waterloo Cup July 15.
New South Wales Champion Stakes August 5.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) August 11.
Victoria Club August 18.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
“Augur’s” tip for the A.J.C. Derby is Spinning-
dale.
George Fordham rode Thebais in the 1000
guineas.
Monmouth still remains first favourite for the
Victorian Derby.
Darriwell’s time for two miles, 3m. 30fa. is the
best on record in Australia.
A special day’s racing is to be held on the 12th
July by the Newcastle Jockey Club.
A football club has been established at Rock-
hampton. Matches to be played every Saturday.
The Union and St. Kilda Football clubs played
a match last Saturday. Result, one try each and a
draw.
A grand stand, capable of accommodating 500
persons, is to be erected at the Rockhampton race-
course.
There is every probability of a day’s racing being
inaugurated at Randwick in honour of the visit of the
Princes.
The Victorian Carltons defeated the Port Ade-
laide football team, scoring 13 goals 17 behinds to the
Port’s 3 behinds.
The public schools in Victoria are forming
bicycle clubs, the Geelong Grammar School having
taken the initiative.
It is rumoured in aquatic circles that a big
Hop Bitters prize is to be given shortly for a contest
on Australian waters.
The committee of the Victorian Amateur Turf
Club have decided to do away with the half forfeit on
the Victoria Gold Cup.
A prize fight on Saturday morning, at the back
of the Randwick Racecourse, resulted in the death of
one of the contestants.
Hanlan is reported as having said that he would
give either Courtenay or Trickett 15sec., or Wallace
Ross lOsec. start, in five miles.
The match on Moore Park, between the Union
and St. Kilda Pootball Clubs, resulted in a tie, each
side having secured a touchdown.
Mr. A. Finlayson’s trophy for amateur scullers,
to come off here on 23rd July, should attract the notice
of amateurs in the sister colonies.
The Wallaroos have not as yet during this season
played with the full complement of men. Is this a sign
of the decadence of the Rugby game ?
Edward Hanlan, the champion sculler, is ar-
ranging a grand international regatta at Toronto, in
which he will probably take part himself.
The Spring Meeting of the Murrumbidgee Turf
Club is to take place on the 23rd, 24th, and 25th Novem-
ber. The added money amounts to nearly £l2OO.
Kirby, let Trickett slide in the first race. In
the second he tried to “fix” him, but he was fixed
himself for £lOO, as the Australian won as he liked.
Two portraits in oils of the late Mr. James
Punch have been painted by Mr. J. Buckler, of 50
Hunter-street. The likeness is a very faithful one.
More policemen are wanted on Moore Park —
not only to keep back spectators, but to check the
larrikins, who are beginning to be offensive in this
quarter.
The football match on the Association Ground
did not do much good to the wickets. The playing
ground had some top-dressing which the first run soon
scattered.
At the Bathurst Coursing Club meeting, the
Cosmopolitan Stakes was won by Mr. W. R. Hall’s
Handsome Girl, and the Cosmopolitan Purse by Mr. W.
Kite’s Kizzie.
The Ascot Gold Cup, run for at Ascot on the
16th instant, was won by Mr. C. Brewer’s Robert the
Devil, Duke of Beaufort’s Petronel second, and Mr. C.
Blanton’s Exeter third.
The Australian Club Cup, the most important
event in connection with the Victoria Coursing Club
meeting, was for 64 dogs at £25 each, with an added
trophy valued at 50 guineas.
Anglers will hear with delight that a beautiful
salmon, which turned the scale at 71b., has been caught
in the Saltwater River, Melbourne. It contained a large
quantity of highly-developed ova.
The 100 yards race for o£2o aside and a trophy,
between Snmmerfleld and Irish, on the Association
Ground, on Saturday, resulted in a comfortable win by
Summerfield. A deal of money changed hands, Irish
being slightly the favourite. ,
At the Victoria Coursing Club meeting the
Australian Club Cup was won by Mr. H. C. Falkiner’s
Fraser, who beat Mr. T. Hutton’s Helen. The Austra-
lian Purse was divided between Fatality and Fassifem,
bcth the property of Mr. E. Fanning. A match for
£lOO between Mr. R. Chirnside’s Little Alice and Mr.
J. F. Army tage’s Restless resalted in a victory for the
former.
Ned Tricketfc had a narrow escape from drown-
ing lately. He was practising in an outrigger at
Saratoga, when he caught a crab, fell backwards, and
upset his boat. He was in a very exhausted condition
when taken out of the water.
The Prince of Wales’ Stakes, of 50 sots, each,
with 1000 sovs. added (three-year-olds), run for at
Ascot on the 14th instant, was won by Mr. P. Loril-
lard’s colt Iroquois. Geologist was second, and Great
Carle third. Another victory for America.
Eoma (Q.) races, Wednesday, Sapling Stakes :
Petrel 1, Brunette 2. Prince of Wales’ Stakes:
Doctor 1, Mosquito 2, Carrington 3. Ladies’ Bag:
Soldier Boy 1. Jessica 2. Maiden Plate: Three Star 1,
Gladiator 2, Miss Medora 3. Town Plate: Osman 1.
A Sydney amateur gun club was started on
Thursday night. The billowing are the officers: —
President, Mr. Walter Bradley; vice-presidents, Mr.
Gannon, Mr, G. Hill, junr., and Mr. Owen Friend : hon.
treasurer, Mr. R. B. Vindin; hon. secretary, Mr. Q. W.
Brownlow.
The results of the Adelaide race meeting, on
Saturday, are as follow :—Hurdle Race : Consternation
1, Veno 2, Beppo 3. Princes’ Handicap: Baron Von
Mueller 1, Vagabond 2. Steeplechase: Midnight 1,
Barney 2, Ararat 3. Waterloo Handicap: Totalizator 1,
Shylock 2, Vagabond 3.
A handicap sculling race for a trophy came off
in Woolloomooloo Bay on Monday afternoon, between
Messrs. J. S. Walford (801bs.), F. W. Fligg (601b5.), and
Q. E. brodie (151b5.), resulting in a rather easy victory
for Walford, who pulled an excellent course, his oppo-
nents doing quite the opposite.
< At Moore Park, on Saturday afternoon, H.
Parish and J. Harpur ran ICO yards for £lO a-side.
Harpnr got rather the best of the start, but Parish
went up and raced level for nearly 70 yards, when
Harpur wont ahead, eventually winning a fine race by a
yard. The race was very fast, both men pulling up
exhausted.
The team to represent New South Wales in the
coming Intercolonial football match is as follows:
Messrs. Backwall, Butler, Crisp, Carey, Clay, J. Foster,
G. Forster, Howard, Jackson, Kellett, Levin, Martin,
A. and J. Macnamara, O’Brien, Pierce, Phillips, Ran-
dall, Walker, Watson, Williams and Young. Emergen-
cies, Teece and Balhausen.
The handicapping for the City and Turf Club
Handicaps, to be run at the Clarence River annual
meeting, has been severely criticised, especially in
local circles. Barber, the winner of the great event of
the Hawkesbnry meeting, got a steadier of lOst. 71b„
and was immediately scratched. An abused handicap
is, in our experience, a certain omen of a close contest.
This is how it is done in Victoria. For the
Australian Club Cup, the first prize is £5OO and a piece
of plate (value 50 guineas); second, £250; third
and fourth, £BO each ; fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth,
£4O each; winners of two courses, £2O each; winners of
one course, £lO each. 64 starters, and not less than 40
prizes 1 A good hound—like Hopbine, for instance —
could win more money than a Grand Flaneur.
The football match on the Association Ground,
on Saturday, between the Sydney and East Sydney
Clubs, was well contested, although East Sydney was
lucky enough to get most goals. The team for the
forthcoming intercolonial match is to be picked from
the players. The different games of football can now
be judged on their merits, as the play on the cricket
ground cannot be impeded by the spectators, who have
a comfortable view of the proceedings.
Mr. Conway denies that any difficulty has arisen
in the arrangements ©f the All-England team in Eng-
land. It may not be generally understood that two
teams are being formed in England, and doubtless the
rumours of a fiasco relate to “ the other parties.” By
last mail, Mr Conway received advices requesting him
to hasten on the arrangements for the tour. With such
a popular and capable pilot, the All-England Eleven
should make a very successful trip through the
colonies.
Dalby (Q.) "Races. Wednesday :—Trial Stakes :
Cadmus 1, Miriam 2. Flying Handicap: Eclipse 1,
Detective 2. Legerdemain 3. Innkeepers’ Plate: Soda-
water I, Pioneer 2, Skylark 3. Town Plate: Galatea 1,
Warhawk 2, Melbourne 3. Stockman’s Purse: Elec-
tric 1, Ringleader 2, Cupid 3. Thursday Maiden Plate:
Cadmus 1, Detective 2, Myrriatt 3. Club Handicap:
Warhawk 1, Melbourne 2, Eclipse 3. Craven Plate:
Legerdemain 1, Galatea 2. Forced Handicap : Galatea
1, Myrriatt 2.
Mackay (Q.) Eacea, Tuesday-.—Pioneer Han-
dicap.- Wrangler 1, Ace 2. Rake 3. Member’s Cup:
Mignonette 1, Spot 2, Tutor 3. Wednesday.—Flying
Handicap: Logie 1, Norma 2, Fiddlestring 3. Sires'
Produce Stakes: Attraction 1; Club Handicap,
Wrangler 1, Mariner 2, Lupus 3. Consolation Stakes :
Ace 1, Spot 2 Hotspur 3. Forced Handicap : Mignon-
ettel, Physician 2, Logic 3. Thursday.—Champagne
Stakes: Mariner 1, Norma 2, Mignonette 3. Mer-
chants’ Cup r Wrangler 1, Mariner 2, Southern Star 3.
Farewell Handicap: Mariner 1, Physician 2, Ace 3.
In the Christchurch Grand National, on Queen’s
Birthday, the Agent (13st.) was the favourite, but this
crushing weight brought him to grief—while leading—
within three jumps of home. Clarence finished first,
and Sailor Boy next, but the latter had also " come to
grass,” and, in making up lost ground, had missed a
fence. A protest was entered against him for this mis-
take, whilst Clarence was being weighed in; and, it not
not being possible to deny it, instantly Hedge (who had
ridden the winner) got off the scales, he flew back “like
a lamplighter ” to where Agent was browsing near the
spot he had fallen, quickly climbed into the saddle, and
brought him safely past the winning post—thus claim-
ing second honours and second money, and riding both
first and second in the same race.
The Eoyston College Athletic Club sports came
off at the Association Ground on Wednesday, the 15th
instant, and resulted as follow :—lOO yards—R. Begg 1,
H. Lindeman 2, E. Brewer 3. 160 yards*race, for boys
under 12—B. Cohen 1, R. Kelly 2, L. Green 3. 220 yards.
All Schools’ race—C. Bray 1, F. Russell 2. 440 yards,
for boys under 15—F. Lett 1, W. Richardson 2. Run-
ning high jump—F. Dempster and W. Hamilton, tie at
4ft. lOin. 150 yards handicap—Begg 1, Green 2, Nelson
3. 100 yards race, for boys under 14—A. Goldman 1, P.
Cohen 2. Half mile handicap—A. Brooks 1, T. Old 2.
220 yards, for boys under 14—A. Goldman 1, O. Davies 2,
S. Kenyon 3. 220 yards handicap— E. Lloyd 1, E.
Bremer 2, H. Lindeman 3. Sack race—A. Goldman 1.
Hurdle race—W. Hamilton 1, H, Lindeman 2. Mile
walk—A. Brooks 1, P. Cohen 2. 150 yards, strangers’
race—W. C. Rush 1, A. Logan 2, P. G. Fairland 3.
Buarter mile handicap—H. Salway 1, W. Hamilton 2.
onsolation stakes—J. Johnson 1, W. Fletcher 2.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A Maori football team has been formed at
Wairarapa A Waikato resident, N.Z , lately bagged
seventy wild pigs in one day Mantle, of Lithgow,
who was defeated by the well-known ped., J. Rice, of
the same place, some time ago, has met with an accident
while working at the colliery. At the time he was
engaged to run a mile race with Muldoon, of the same
town, who has very generously allowed Mantle to
withdraw his deposit money Jacob Pile (Glebeland),
and John Jenkins (Adamstown), play handball, 31
points tip, at Williams’ Miners’ Exchange alley, on
Saturday, the 25th instant, commencing at 10 a.m.
Stakes, £5 aside The "champion footballer” has
been at Newcastle during last week; hence his absence
from the match on Saturday The yacht Waitangi,
22 tons, built at Auckland, has been purchased by Mr.
A. G. Milson, owner of the lone A handsome centre-
board yacht has just been launched from Donnelly and
Sullivan’s premises, to the order of Mr. E B. Forrest,
of Brisbane. Length overall, 36 feet; beam, 9 feet 7
inches; depth, 4 feet 6 inches. The centreboard is 10
feet long, and 4 feet deep It appears that we were
incorrect in stating that the medals won at the late
Association Regatta had been presented A regatta,
it is probable, will shortly be held at Lismore Rush
has sent for Dunlop, of Newcastle, to prepare him for
his match with Laycock Rush has offered to back
the brothers M‘Donald to row E. Laycock and Mes-
senger, or Laycock and any other man, a double-
scull race in light skiffs, for £lOO a-side
A match,, distance half-a-mile, came off on Randwick
last Saturday afternoon between Mr. P. Mark’s brown
horse by Julian Avenel and Mr. Brownlow’s hay pony
Professor. The latter won easily The height of leaps
on Flemington steeplechase course is to be reduced to an
average of 4ft, with a view to increasing the fields J.
Weir, a Californian breeder of trotting-horses, comes
to the colonies in October, bringing with him a number
of selected mares and two trotting stallions to form a
stud A horse called Isaac, winner of the hurdle race
at Forbury, Ofago, on Queen’s Birthday, is the third
tram-horse that has carried off money on the same
course At Inverell, E. Collins, of that town, and J.
Hade, late of Stannifer, had a match—running hop-step-
and-jnmp—for £5 aside Collins conceded 6in, and won
a pluckily contested match by covering 42tt 2>n
The mare Lady Hilda, for whom Mr. P. Reynolds gave
1000 guineas for the Tooal stud, is dead A race of
150 yards, for a stake of £lO, came off on Saturday be-
tween Crouch and M’Guinuess, and resulted in favour
of M'Guinness, who won by about a foot Entries for
the open races at the Modern High School sports,
which tike place on Friday, 24tH inst., at the Association
Ground, will close on the previous day at 10 30.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Eyrie, M.L. A.., has been visiting his consti-
tuents in the Braidwood district.
The Hon. Sam. Griffith, the leader of the
Queensland Opposition, says there was no real com-
getition for the steel rails contract. The Premier’s
rother got the benefit.
The Victorian corner party have decided not to
support Sir Bryan O’Loghlen’s no-confidence motion.
The Ministry expected to pass the Appropriation Act
and prorogue on Wednesday or Thursday,
M‘Hwraith, the Premier of Queensland, has re-
turned to Brisbane in grand form and high spirits.
His friends say no man weighed down by consciousness
of an impending exposure could be so buoyant and con-
fident as he is.
At Grafton, Sir Jack Robertson intimated that
he wants to get back into the Assembly, and scrape off
the blue-mould which grows in the Council chamber.
Two kings of Brentford, eh ? Sir 'Enery will need to
spit on his hands if Jack gets back.
Concerning the cabled statement that O’Donovan
Bossa had said that the blowing up of H.M.S. Dotterell
was due to Fenian agency, a correspondent of the
Brisbane Courier explains that Bossa keeps a pub. in
New York, and draws custom by serving out tough
yams with his tangle-foot whisky.
Sir John Robertson made a long—we mean a
great—speech on the Public Instruction Act, at Qraffon.
In the coarse of his address, he said that “ the pro-
visions which would first strike a person accustomed to
reflect are the substitution of a responsible Minister for
an irresponsible Board," Ac. Our idea is that the sort
of provisions which would have first struck a person, if
Ministers had not brought up a promise of a railway,
would have been —eggs.
Under the new Victorian Reform Bill six mem-
bers of the Council will retire next year, when their
places will be refilled, and 12 new members will be
elected to the Council, which will then, for the first
time, consist of 42 members. Sir Charles Sladen does
not retire till 1886, and Dr. Hearn in 1888. Sir W.
Mitchell, Mr. Lorimer, Mr. Balfour, Mr. Bussell, Mr.
Gumming, and Mr. W. M Culloch will hold their seats
till 1890—bar accidents. That’s why Victorian Liberals
pin so much hope on the comet, and the spot on the
sun, and small-pox.
Mr. Griffith, leader of the Queensland Oppo-
sition, passed through Sydney on ’his return from
England, last week, looking sleek and happy. Brisbane
Libs, gave him a tremendous reception. Procession,
brass band, torches, banquet, and so forth. There was
a frightful rumour that the Government intended to
order the Governor Blackall, which carried the Hon.
Sam. from Sydney, into strict quarantine at Moreton
Bay, and keep him there until Parliament had been
opened and the address in reply earned, by which time
it was reckoned that the banquet and brass band would
have gone bad.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The Princess Pierre Bonaparte is about to be-
come a nun,
“ Marriage—the gate through which the happy
lover leaves his enchanted regions and returns to
earth.”
The female franchise has been introduced into
the Isle of Man. The Isle of Man will soon be the Isle
of Woman.
Two of the females concerned in the fracas in
the dress circle of Melbourne Theatre Royal the other
evening were barmaids.
Elizabeth Williams has been convicted of burg-
lary in Melbourne. Is no manly profession to be free
from the intrusion of the gentle sex ?
One of the Hungarian papers says that the
judge who condemned Sophie Perovsky to the gallows
was a companion of her childhood and an old sweet-
heart.
Gambetta oracularly pronounces that reforms
should be introduced to give woman all her prestige,
all her authority, all her rights, and the power to
exorcise them.
We have it on the authority of a Canadian paper
that the Princess Louise says : •* If you desire to have
an apricot tart properly cooked, always make it with
an 4 upper crust.'
The N.Z. man who was supposed to have eloped
with his housemaid and gone down in the Tararuu is
safe. He came to Sydney in the Rotorua; she went
down in the ill-fated steamship.
Fashionable girl whose kleptomaniacal mother is
out late shopping ; 4 Oh dear, I am so worried about
mamma ! Ido hope something hasn’t caught her in
her cloak button and they’ve arrested her."
A Geelong man who halteth not between two
opinions advertises thus : — ,4 1 will not be responsible
for any debts contracted by my wife or family, my wife
having left her home since the 24th May, 1880; further,
I will not have her hack again."
The Duchess of Edinburgh herself petitioned
for the commutation of the sentence of death passed
on Helzig Hetfmann, concerned in the murder of
the Czar, who lies in prison awaiting the birth of her
infant — et apres, the hangman.
He was a musician, but not, indeed, of this
colony. Tripping briskly into his pet music publisher s,
he was informed that a lady had called to see him, but
had left no name. 44 A lady,” mused the maestro ;
44 what kind of a lady ?’’ Upon accurate description, he
brightened up, and added, 44 Oh, dot vas no lady; dot
vasmy wife.”
The Colac (Vic.) Reformer says the census
returns disclose the fact that out of the 500 Colac
women only one is over 30 years of age, and she is a
grandmother. All the marriageable but unmarried
ladies, 175, are still in their teens, 151 being under 18,
and the remaining 24 in their 19th year. One lady is
said to have been discovered by an enumerator to be
only eight years older than her married daughter.
The conspicuous gallantry of the 92nd High-
landers in the recent Afghan and South African cam-
paigns has recalled the story of the original recruiting
of that regiment—how the then Duchess of Gordon, the
famous Jean, helped to raise the number of the ranks
by holding the shilling between her lips, and allowing
each recruit to take it in the same manner, so that the
recruit was the happy recipient of a kiss from the
Duchess.
A Danish paper points out that the Princess
Victoria, who was recently married to Prince William,
the heir to the German Imperial Throne, is a great
great great grand-daughter of a bell-ringer formerly em-
ployed at the Trinity Church in Copenhagen. Matha-
sen Soren’s daughter Mette was married to the Danish
Admiral Kaas. The Admiral’s grand-daughter was mar-
ried to Count Samsoe Danneskjdld, this Countess being
the grandmother of Princess Victoria. It is said that
the Hungarian author, Baron Ivor Kaas, is descended
from the same family.
In 1879 Germany spent in intoxicating drinks
£130,000,000, France £116,000.000, Great Britain
£150,000, and the United States £144,000,000. Total
£540,000,000.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Word comes from Aden that the Bishop of
Sydney, after leaving Galle, had not been so well.
London Missionary Society has voted .£lOO a
year to maintain a central station New Guinea way.
Rev. James Jefferis, of Congregational Church,
Sydney, reached England on 29th April, in improved
health.
Vicar-General Byrnes was last Sunday, at the
E.C. Cathedral, Adelaide, invested with the degree of
D.D., conferred by the Pope.
In the face of the trouble about the revised
version, the Presbyterian last week informed its
readers that there are no burning questions at present.
The children of the Christian Brothers’ school
at Adelaide have presented their Bishop with a con-
gratulatory address. How fearfully early children do
begin in the colonies to ape the vices of their seniors I
The Protestant Standard says that one of
the wealthiest members of the Bomish Church in this
colony has become a staunch Protestant. The Standard
estimates that this conversion will prove a loss of £5OO
a year to Dr. Vaughan.
Rev. R. A. Steel, M.A., has been inducted to
the charge of the Queanbeyan Presbyterian Jhnrah.
Ihe rev. gentleman is the eon of the Eev. Dr. Steel, of
Sydney, who was amongst the speakers on the occasion,
and was warmly welcomed.
The Christian W&rld says ; —“ We regret to
learn that Dr. Cumming’s mental condition is such
that, while physically well, he is practically dead to
the world.” The rev. gentleman referred to was, as
everyone knows, always a little eccentric.
IV: emo. for juries of four and correspondents of
aristocratic Melbourne papers:—" I have been a week in
Bombay, wandering to and fro in the streets and laues
of a densely-crowded city of more than 800,000
inhabitants—Hindoos, Mussulmans, Parsees, and
Devil-worshippers—and 1 declare to you solemnly and
sorrowfully that among all this crowd! of idolatrous
Asiatics I have not seen human nature so inhuman and
degraded as I have too often seen it in the streets of
Sydney.” This comes from the Eev. James Jefferis.
Dr. Kennedy, a Presbyterian clergyman, has
been spending his holidays in Paris. This is how he
writes to one of his parishioners in the old country :
“ The Parisians are the saddest-looking people I ever
met. I cannot describe how much this impression is
imprinted on my feelings, and how I was moved to pity
by it, while roused into indignation by the rampancy of
their ungodliness. I never was so conscious of mingled
indignation and pity as I was while looking on the
crowds that I met on the streets of Paris on the Lord’s
Day.” This is something quite new to us.
Here is an item, clipped from a South Australian
daily newspaper, about a dear old friend, whom we long
to clasp once more to our palpitating ber-reast :—“ Sal-
vation Army Barracks. Sunday servicas. Morning at
11, evening at 7. The Eev. J. A. Dowie, of Sydney,
will preach next Sunday evening. Hallelnjah meetings
held every evening during the week at 8 Sittings free.
All are cordially invited. Temperance meetings every
Saturday evening at 8. The Eev. J. A. Dowie will
deliver an address at the next.” One of the Sydney
“religions” papers says that John Alexander “ lacks ”
ballast, but we don’t think so. The man who has got,
or is going to get, £20,000 to build a church, must be
properly ballasted. We’d like to see John Alex, return
and start a Salvation Army in Sydney. Things are
getting flat, and we Want something to write about.
More love towards neighbours. This is how
the Banner of Light, the N.S W. Baptist organ (by
the way, we never heard of it before), lets out: —“ Onr
brother Llewellyn meets the usual fate of missionarie-i,
for we were assured that his presence was by no means
welcome. The semi-Papist Anglicans who rule the
Northern Diocese have nothing but discourtesy for all
who will not bow down, and worship the Episcopal
Image.” The Baps, expect too much. Brother Llewel-
lyn may be a polished gentleman ; but sometimes, little
cads whose religious feelings affect their noses so as to
make them snuffle, but whose conversion has had no
influence upon their manners, are started out, and got
mad when Anglican clergymen, who are mostly of
gentle birth and breeding, don’t pretend to forget that
the missionary’s secular station is on a level with that
of a pew-opener.
At Westminster Abbey, Canon Farrar preached
a sermon on the death of Earl Beacbnsiield. The text
was, “ Know ye not that there is a prince fallen this
day in Israel,” and the object of the sermon appeared
to be to point out the advantages of worldliness and
ambition. Tho preacher drew a parallel between Lord
Beaconsfleld and Moses, and praised the former for
always standing by his race and never shrinking from
the name of Jew. “I never can understand,” says
“ Euffler,” “ upon what grounds a Jew need ever be
ashamed of being a Jew. Here people pride themselves
upon antiquity of race, and the Jews are tho oldest
nation in the world. A gentleman is a gentleman,
whether he be Jew or Gentile. Had I been a Jew in
the days of the Plantagenets, I should have felt great
delicacy about admitting my nationality. But that
would have been owing to my strong prejudice against
being boiled or roasted, and against having my teeth
drawn and my money taken away. Under an enlightened
Liberal Government, however, the property of the Jew
is at any rate in no greater danger of confiscation than
that of the Christian, and his teeth no longer rattle
under the feudal forceps. His daughters recruit the
fortunes of the impecunious members of the aristo-
cracy. He legislates, becomes a Peer, dies in the odour
of sanctity, and is lavishly buttered by orthodox
divines. Why, then, should he ignore his origin ? ”
Leopold Rothschild, just married to Miss
Perugia, is an excellent skater. One day he skated his
name into the ice at Hyde Park, London, when another
skater added the legend : “ Pay the bearer £10,000,000.’
It is said that Lord Selborne, who is the author
of a hymn-book, and who has always set up for a god-y
man, is anxious to resign his seat in the Cabinet that
has taken Mr. Brodlaugh under its patronage.
The other day, on the Shanghai River, a boat’s
crew from a Chinese frigate was sent to Are into and
sink a burning vessel. Of three shots fired at a distance
of 50 yards, two missed the vessel, and the third went
through the side of the boat from which it was fired.
Chinamen can bring in the small-pox, but they can’t
shoot straight.
As an example of the efficient condition of the
British army, it is pointed out that when the 19th Hus-
sars were ordered from India to South Africa it was found
that, though a cavalry regiment, they were 140 horses
short. That number was obtained by supplying the
deficiency from the chargers of the 12th Lancers, which
as a cavalry regiment is unfit to take the field.
In a Moravian chalk-pit was recently discovered
a fragment of what is pronounced to be the long-songht-
for tertiary man. Dr. Schaffhausen, of Bonn Univer-
sity, pronounces the relic to be the jaw-bone of an
eight-year-old child, although by its sise it might well
be taken for that of a full-grown man. In the pro-
fessor’s opinion this more than antediluvian youth
must have been to somd extent pithecordal, or monkey,
like.
In Paris, a countryman, carrying a sack, falls
against a small haberdasher’s window, breaks a pane,
and tells the owner that he is unable to pay for the
damage. Then a well-dressed man comes up and says
he knows the peasant to be comparatively rich. The
peasant, after being for some time detained, produces a
IOOOf, note, gets 900 f, change, and walks off, cursing.
The note is subsequently found to be forged. The sot
disant peasant and the well-dressed man are con-
federates.
At Grahamstown, Port Elizabeth (Cape of Good
Hope), on April 11, Mr. Gladstone was burnt in effigy,
the terms of the Transvaal settlement having given
great dissatisfaction. A “ charge ” was read over the
effigy, the conclusion of which is thus reported“ Men
of Grahamstown, —Of the high crimes and misde-
meanours of the accused how find you ? Is he guilty or
not guilty ?” “ Guilty.” “ Are you unanimous ?’’—
' Yes.”—“Traitor and coward I God may forgive yon,
but we never can. The unanimous sentence of this
meeting is that your vile body be committed to the all-
devouring element, and that your ashes be scattered to
the four quarters of the earth, with the hearty curses
of every loyal British subject. God save the Queen 1”
—(Great cheering.)


Tailors, Drapers, &o.
161
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME WEIGEL’S
PAPER PATTERNS of DRESSES, MANTLES, etc.,
cut in different sizes for Ladies and Children, fur-
nished with illustrations and directions for making
up. Sold at prices ranging from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OP
FASHIONS. Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6a per
annum, post free- Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
ADDRESS:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
AVE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
INTER
GOODS.
We have at present a nice supply of the following
seasonable goods:—
Girl’s Waterproofs and Long Jackets
~ Hosiery, Gloves and Wool Goods
Ladies’ Long Jackets and Waterproofs
Ladies’ Skirts—Felt, Alpacoa, & Satin Quilted
Ladies’ Hosiery, Gloves, and Wool Goods
Ladies’ Lined Kid Gloves—Fur tops with Spring
Our own Registered Glove
2 Button 4 Button 6 Button
In the Shop 2/9 3/9 4/9
Posted 3/- 4/- 51-
JOHN B. YOUD A L E,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just below Liverpool-street.
Business Announcements
Ll,boal.J
HORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
> SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
Allen west
(Just from Europe),
PROFESSOR OP DANCING, &c.,
Evening Adult classes, Mondays and Tuesdays, 8 p.m.
Adult Beginner's classes, Saturdays 4 p.m. Children’s
classes, Thursdays 4.15 p.m.; Saturdays 2 p.m. Parties
wishing private tuition in Boston and Slow waltzes, &c.,
and latest fashionable Dancing, apply at Hall from 11
till 12 noon, 341 Castlereagh-street, corner of Qoulburn-
street. Residence, 161 LIVERPOOL STREET.
QHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Go d packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
JpiANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
* J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &c.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
H°
RSE-CLIJPPING MACHINES
SHARPENED. ss. each, by
R. HELLYER,
88 ELIZABETH STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
Guaranteed to Cut equal to new, or no charge made.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Pounders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Business Announcements
I HAVE this day commenced business as a
Stock and Share Broker, and shall be happy to
undertake any commissions either for the sale or pur-
chase of shares that may be entrusted to me.
JOHN E. JONES.
Eeferences :
Hon. S. D. Gordon, M.I/.C.
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C.
Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
Eichard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-street.
JJAVID M‘CA L L ,
If, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKEE,
By special appointment.
To his Eoyal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Behnore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.Q.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand*
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868,1870, 1873, and 1875.
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which wi'l be found equal to any sold in Sydney at
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
AG. churchwood.
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPOETEE AND MANUFACTUEEE OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUEEY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia.
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
NOWLAND’S
wa
LEAVE
GUNNED AH DAILY for NAEEABRI.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY, THURSDAY, and
SATURDAY for WEE WAA, PILLIGA, WAL-
GETT, MILLIE, and MOREE.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY and SATURDAY for
MUNGINDIE, Queensland Border.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY for ST. GEORGE,
Queensland.
UEPHY AND SON,
IMPORTERS OF
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and ’
rolled)
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for Honse and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, Ac.
Varnishes
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOR USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
GLASSON’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Haebis-strket, off Geoege-stbeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, Ac., Ac.
S. Q. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Tailors, Drapers, Jfcc.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
368, 360, 362, George-street.
OPENING NEW GOODS
for
WINTER SEASON
EVERY DAY DURING THIS MONTH.
FIRST GENERAL SHOW
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSES
FOR THE WINTER SEASON.
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO CHOOSE FROM.
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HOMESPUN
ELASTIC SIEGE
KASGHER CASHMERE
STOCKINGETTE
CAMBRIAN HOMESPUN
INDRIS CLOTH
ANGOLA CASIMEEE
JERSEY CLOTH
VALPARAISO CLOTH
AND A LARGE ASSORTMENT OP OTHER
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY. —We have opened 3
cases of very CHOICE MILLIN-
ERY, something quite new and
handsome, direct from the leading
houses in London and Paris.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPARTMENT. BLACK
SILK, Rich Velvety Black, 22 inch
to 24 inch wide, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6.1. 7s 6d. Extraor-
dinary value. Patterns post free.
BLACK SATIN DAMASK, BLACK
BROCADES, BLACK FIGURED
SILKS, in a variety of new patterns.
BLACK SATIN DE LYON. 23 to 24
inches wide, 3s lid, 4s lid, 5s lid,
6s lid, 7s 6d. These are now much
worn, and strongly recommended
for wear, and first-class value.
BLACK VELVETEENS
N AUCUNIUM, guaranteed fast black,
every yard stamped on back.
BLACK SATINS for DRESSES, 22
inches and 24 inches wide, 3s 6d,
3s lid, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d. These
are light and soft, and considerably
under usual prices. STRIPED
SILK VELVETS, PLUSHES in
every shade of colour. Embossed
and Brocaded SILK VELVETS,
Floral Designs, Ac.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPARTMENT.—We have
OPENED a LARGE ASSORT-
MENT of all descriptions of
LACES in every make, real and
imitation, Embroidered Trimmings,
Ruffling, Modeira Work, Ladies’
Gulfs, Collarettes Sets, Spanish
Lace Ties in Black and Ecru,
Spanish Lace by the yard in every
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS we always get FREE
FROM DRESS, so that there will
be no deception after they are
. washed. Ladies will find our
Sheetings good value and standard
mates. Prices: 72-inch, rom lOd
to Is lid j 80-inch, Is to 2s 2d; 90-
incb. Is 6d to 2s 6d; 100-inch, 2s 2d
to 3s. American, Denison House,
& Horrocks’ CALICOES, TOILET
QUILTS, from If to 3i long, at all
prices. Coloured ALHAMBRA
QUILTS, 2J long. 3s 6d. TOILET
COVERS at all prices and sizes, by
the yard, 27 and 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN and HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT—It has always
been our study to import goods of
this class of thoroughly genuine
character. By this means we have,
year after year, increased our Sale
of FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY. We
are now showing a. very nice ship
ment of of DAMASK CLOTH and
NAPKINS, both Double and Single
Damask. These goods we have in
every size, and at prices unequalled
for cheapness and value in the
colony. We commence our DA-
MASK CLOTHS from 3s lid to
42s ; 5-8 NAPKINS, 4s 6d to 12s 6d;
3-4 NAPKINS, from 7s 6d to
29s 6d; DAMASK DOYLEYS,
round or square, all prices. SLIP
DAMASK, 5-8 and 3-4 wide : UN-
BLEACHED TABLE LINEN,
from Is 9d to 2s 6J; BEST IRISH
SHEETINGS, all widths ; IRISH
PILLOW LINEN. 40, 45, 54 inches
wide; WHITE TURKISH
TOWELS, from 12s 6d to 365, ac-
cording to size; BROWN TURK-
ISH TOWELS, GLASS CLOTHS,
TEA CLOTHS, KNIFE CLOTHS,
TURKISH DUSTERS, RUSSIA
CRASH. PINAFORE DIAPERS,
CLOUTING DIAPERS, MANG-
LING CLOTH, made expressly,
27, 30, 33, 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
LANKETS. BLANKETS.
“FIRST SHIPMENT OF THE SEASON”
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE, PULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
“ Competition defied.”
P O A L C L I F P COAL
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON—224olb
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price oj
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and Its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal o>
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
weU know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, Ac., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton—224olb. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened ~)
17s. Ditto single ditto > CoalclilT.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines J
235. Ditto double-screened 1
225. Ditto single ditto j Newcastle.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood andOh vcoal, Ac., at current price.
B. BLACK,
247 George-street,
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next corner
King-street, Established 1859.
Tailors, Drapers, fee.
J.
TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482. late 48*. GEORGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
F ASAION ABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOEEST'S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOEEST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is. ; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HAEEIS,
87 King Street, Sydney (two doors from George-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The misses gibb,
(Late with Messrs. David Jones and Co.),
52, MAEGAEET STEEET,
WYNYAED SOU A EE,
Three Doors from Mr. J. Spencer, Dentist,
Have much pleasure in announcing that they are about
to open Mantles Millinery, and specialities suitable for
Ladies for the Autumn Season. An early inspection is
respectfully solicited.
52, MAEGAEET STEEET. WYNYAED SQUAEE.
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,"
No. 12 PAEK STEEET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
XT IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT” THAT
A for Household or Family Drapery “Edward
Hordern’s” Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porium on the Brickfield H ' has “ Vq Eival," either
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock.
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening ort
every day.
NO BEANCH HOUSES ANYWHEEE.
p EO. L. LINEKER,
HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOE,
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATE
CUTTEE TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work-
manship, Ac., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
M.8.-TWO DOOES PEOM GEOEQE STEEET.
R.C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
127 KING STEEET,
Cannot Cannot Cannot
be be be
Excelled Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, and FASHION.
To effectually stop the extortion that has been prac-
tised in the way of clothing E. C. H. is making from
pure West of England and Scotch Tweeds.
In Five-button sac pattern suits, to Order, 70s.
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 655.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
West of England, Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
TEOUSEES. TEOUBEES. TEOUSEES.
West ©f England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d,
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order 16s 6d.
N.B.—Patterns, with self-measurement system, sent
post free to all parts of the colony.
Note the Address —
127 KING STREET.
$
&
m
no*
m
<9
CL
&C
ill
m
pi
m
w
a


Hotels, &c
The compagno
CAFE AND CATERING C<
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESI
IS NOW OPE
The Company have secured tl
Marriette, late de cuisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinne:
Three hours notice required for pr
The spacious rooms o f Messn
been greatly enlarged, re-decor
Every attention will be paid tc
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30, 1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE
serve up in their be
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLL(
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTE tS NATUB
Patrons of our Theatres and Co
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposit
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jateeing
315 GEORGE STI
(late Harris’ Cafd, opposite Pea
A superior CAFE and RESTAUR.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS
and for
Gentlemen accompanied
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE 1
Birthday Cakes, Christening Ca
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest ■
GUARANTEED that no dangero
or ingredient of any kind injurious
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and managem
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings,
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demc
Civil and attentive waiters alway
HAS. E. g
MANAGER.
R
OBINSON’S PITZI
WILLIAM STI
WOOLLOOMOOL
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF AJ
Is PER BOTTL
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEi
all round.
N.B. —Cockbum’s Grape (PORI
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Amei
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table,
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVI
HOTEL DE FRj
78 & 80 GASTLEEEAt
Opposite Theatre I
DE
or
EBAC
MU
m
Hotels, &c.
OLD EXHIBITION HOTEL.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOB BOAEDEES.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIEE, Proprietor,
MA. GO O D,
• PARK HOTEL, PARRAMATTA,
(immediately opposite the domain gates).
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines and Spirits, of the
best brands, at the lowest possible prices. Picnic
parties therefore would do well not to burden them-
selves by bringing the same.
W. EOBEETS,
MARKET STREET,
FOE FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &c
B
OBEET BUTC
(Late 'William Ik
WINE AND SPIRIT Ml
534 GEORGE STR
OPPOSITE TOWN HAU
Cototrt Obdkes Receive Pbi
IN HOGSHEADS, QUA]
AND CASE
I
m
AGENT—G EOKG]
BRIDGE STREET CH
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs t<
that owing to the increasing dema
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATEI
Although the principal business
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retai
WINES IN LARGE BULK am
TRADE.
<9* Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of the
io act in conjunction with Mr.
Sydney, he feels confident that, w
the above-named two experiem
favours will be attended to with t
tude.
WINE GEOWEE AND I
Splendid DINNER WINES, from
DESSERT WINES. 18s, and 21s,
FINE OLD WINES, suitable for
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS: 40 H
T
Country Orders receive proi
ET H. HOCKIN
PURE
OLD AUSTEALIAN
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE
THE
TAEPING Ml
This celebrated TEA is com
UNCOLOURED T
and is made upjnto llb and half lb
m
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
he Celebrated
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimiuant
£he worv^
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
Lome
HighlandWhisky.
the PERFECTION
OF
UNRIVALLED for
ITODDY.
SOLE PROPRIETORS
GREENLEES^
3l.COM K ER ClALSTREtT. 10 N D 0 N.E
DISTILLERIES, ARCTLESHIRE
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any ef the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
R
OSS AND CLINCH,
(Late Collins and Roach),
CRATED WATER
AND
CORDIAL MANUFACTURERS.
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
CORDIALS OP ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:—
BOSS AND CLINCH,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
I MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42a per dozen.
ALBURY WINES.
PORT MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
I ALTON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard :
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris „ ... 1864
Vienna „ ... 1873
Philadelphia „ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE, RED.
Reisling Ancarot I Shiraz Hermitag?
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
The Name of M. MOBB & OO
every Genuine Bottle
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so largely ‘'ousemed
cs
&
a
&
$2
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PUKITY and PLAVOI/K.
Wholesale Agent—CHAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Do <
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti
illation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
01
MAR
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The hospital concert at Newcastle, under the
management of Mr. C. H. Hannell, realised £l5O. 1200
seats were provided Among the through passengers
by the San Francisco mail steamer was the agent of
Madame Welchins, a violinists, who is to visit the
colonies very shortly Rose Osborne is still in
’Frisco E. T. Stetson’s projected visit to Australia
has been abandoned, a hitch having occurred in his
negotiations with George Coppin Jenny Winston is
still prima donna of Mahon’s Opera Company, and was
last heard of in Philadelphia De Lias is going to
introduce the Berger Family to the New Zealanders’
notice in the summer Mr. Gillon, New Zealand
agent for the Dramatic Authors’ Association, is pro-
ceeding: against the amatenrs who recently appeared
in "Trial by Jury" at Oamaru for the authors’ fees,
which have not been paid Howorth’s Hibernica was
on its travels through Pennsylvania at latest dates.
Mr. H. A. B. Williams, generally known as “Alpha-
betical " Williams, had seceded from that show, and was
running one of his own, entitled “ Paradise Lost," in
the same part of the country That old Australian
favorite, James Burdette Howe, was at latest still
leading man at the Britannia Theatre, Hoxton, London.
“ The Fakir of Ajmere” is aboat to travel through
Queensland, opening at Maryborough. Ho has left the
Smithson troupe It is said that another juvenile
troupe is undergoing the “ forcing " process, necessary
to the production of a baby representation of “La
Fille an Tambour Major." Seymour and the
Wyburds have opened a skating-rink in Launceston
In Adelaide, one of the newspapers congratulated a
melo-dramatio actor on his abilities as a pantomimic
clown ; and now the actor wants to serve the critic as
another actor in another colony once served another
scribe —give him a thrashing and bolt to save
legal expenses Brandram, the successful reciter,
has produced a “ Shakespeare for the young;” After
John M’Cullough’s season at Drury Lane, the Meinin-
gen Court Company will appear there for a season,
playing (in German) Shakespeare’s Schiller and Goethe.
Boucicault avers that he was the means of intro-
ducing Irving to London playgoers as a “star." He
describes the fashionable tragedian as an “ eccentric
serious actor," in contradistinction to Joe Jefferson,
whom he calls an “eccentric comic actor." Solvlni,
like Sara Bernhardt, is much pleased with America.
The gross receipts on his 79 performances in the States
amounted to 156,000 dollars. So says the Philadelphia
correspondent of the London Times “ Handsome
George” Rignold is still at his old tricks. At his
benefit in London recently, ho played Romeo with a
fresh Juliet for every act George Darrell—so says a
late 'Frisco Chronicle—has secured an opening for
“ Back from the Grave ” in Philadelphia. Fred Lyster,
according to the same paper, had reached Chicago as
agent for the Lingards, so that his return to 'Frisco
“ would not be so speedy as was hoped for." Fred
must have written this par. himsdlf.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
La Fills du Tambour-Major,” produced at the
Theatre Royal, on Saturday last, is a piece as attractive
as legs cau make it, and will donbtless be the delight of
the gentlemen with the low foreheads and large eye-
glasses for many weeks to come. That Mr. George
Mnsgrove possesses a knowledge of, if not the whole of
human nature, at any rate of the play-going portion of
it, beyond his years is evident. He has brought from
England a bustling opera with very few fascinating airs
but a great many fascinating women, and it is a great
success. Nor is it hard to discover the reason “ Tam-
bour-Major" commands so large a share of public
favor. The French officers, led as they are by the divine
Slater, form a constellation of smiles and tights which
will act like a loadstone on our gilded youth and silvered
"old boys!" while experience of the run of Henry V.,
for instance, proves that a large muster of supers, on
the stage can almost invariably cause an extensive roll-
up of the honest horny-handed. This being the case,
setting aside altogether the merits of the acting and
singing (which are considerable) “ La FilleduTambour-
Maior," with its gay uniforms, its waving banners,
flashing arms and symmetrical legs, should obtain such
a hold on the Sydney public that, unless we are much
mistaken, those jaundiced persons who affect to pooh-
nh the piece will find themselves confronted by—
jive ns this once, gentle readers—a Tambour
Major-ity.
• . * •
The libretto, we are told, was written by Messrs.
Cbivbt and Durn, and has been adapted (which means
translated and “ toned down”) by Mr. H. B. Fnrnie.
This gentleman,whom wo know as the successful manipu-
lator of the libretti of “Nemesis," "Olivette,” “Eldera-
do," and other pieces, has done his work only fairly well,
inasmuch as a very large amount of “ gag" has to be
introduced by the Duke and Bambini in order to keep
the ball rolling, and did Stella allow her vivacity to
flag for an instant, something very like dulness would
he the result. No such thing, however, occurs. The
principals (for the most part) play throughout with un-
varying energy and spirit, the consequence being that
the qnick action of the performers counteracts the
effect of the rather slow libretto of the adapter. In
some cases —notably in the first act, where the soldiers
swarm into the garden of the convent —there are one or
two jokes which perhaps smack rather more of Chivot
and Duru than would suit a Hard-shell Baptist, but as
on Saturday night a crowded dress-circle received these
plaisanteries parisien nes with no signs of disapproval,
we suppose that the aoupfon of a “ double one" is the
reverse of unacceptable to the white-tie and opera-cloak
section of the community, and that they are gradually
being educated to applaud and appreciate the highly-
spiced wit of a Clairville, or the strongly-seasoned
humour of a Koning.
♦ . *
Miss Patti Laverne, the Stella of thfl opera, is
(appropriately enough) the star nt the company. This
little lady is a capital actress, and without, perhaps,
being s “ Patti," in a double sense is a very bright little
diva indeed. Certain cynics haye said that the Theatre
Royal is a trifle too large for her voice to fill, hut we
don’t echo this. Miss Laveme is really so charming
that if she assured us her voice would fill Wynyard
Square we would be bound to believe her. That she
wiU become popular with Sydney people is certain, and
when after many months she departs, her photo, will bo
in great request amongst the slain. We shall certainly
invest in one, in order that when she is far away, and
we open the drawer in which is deposited our slender
store of collars and handkerchiefs, she may be recalled
to our enchanted memories by the delicate perfume
of sweet Laverneder.
• * •
Miss Nellie Stewart comes out very strong as
Griolet, and her voice shows signs of much cultivation.
She beats a drum, too, in a manner which reminds us
of Alice Spencer in her prime, when that charming
young lady (now, alas ! wedded and away) used to
nightly beat a tattoo upstairs in the Polytechnic with
her feet in the fifth position, and her head amongst the
“ flies.” Miss Nellie was very warmly received, and
was thrown daring the evening a large number of what
a comic daily contemporary will insist upon terming
“ floral tributes.” Critically speaking, we regard her
performance as one of great merit, and we regretted
after hearing her warble
“ Cold as the Alp-snow in summer,”
that we had not, prior to entering the theatre, passed
round by the markets and invested in a floral “ two*
bobber,"
* « »
Of the other ladies, not much need be said. Miss
Minnie Hope dressed very well as the Vivandiere, and
sang—not very well. Miss Maggie Liddle was good as
the Duchess, though, at times, a Liddle flat as regards
her singing. Mrs. Edouin Bryer, being naturally a
sweet Bryer, made a sweet Abbess, and as an exponent
of that part we should say she would he second to nun.
Miss Grace Austin was Bianca, Miss A. Elliot Lorenza,
and Miss Jnlia Barber Teresa —the latter lady with a
number of Unas, Adas, Lenas, and Maggies, officered the
French army, and performed their military duties with
great grace and statuesqueuess. The soldiers were ex-
tremely well drilled, and it was generally remarked
that such a number of straight-legged supers, had not
been got together since George Rignold last curvetted
on his milk-white charger.
* • •
Mr. H. R. Harwood, as the Duke della Volta,
was inexpressibly droll, and his scenes with Bambini
(admirably played by Mr. John Wallace) were provoca-
tive of great merriment. Indeed the pit was so affected
with laughter, that, looking down upon the occupants
from the circle, they resembled—so formidable was the
exhibition of molars—a huge cluster of dentists’ show-
cases. It is not too much to say that these two artists
are the life and soul of the piece, and too high praise
cannot be given them for the unflagging manner in
which they worked in order to secure the success of
the opera. Mr. Wallace’s gags are sure to become as
hackneyed as those of "Pinafore," for, during the
entr’actes people were calling “ I am here, dear duke,"
to one another with great apparent enjoyment. Mr.
Harwood, failing to recognise a character on the stage,
enquired if the unknown performer were “ a writer on
The Bulletin," and from the manner in which the peo-
ple applauded it was evident that the popularity of this
journal is unbounded. While, of course, feeling grateful
to the “dear duke" for this gratuitous ad., we could
not help envying the convulsed pitites the facility with
which they were amused.
* • *
With Mr. Mervin, the Tambour-Major, we are
slightly disappointed. His voice is by no means power-
ful, and he has many of those mannerisms which are so
invariably found-in “creators" of a role. Whether
Messrs. Chivbt and Darn intended the pathetic business
to be carried to the lengths to which the English
Monthabor carries it we do not know, not having seen
the French libretto, bat we are of opinion that snch
an avalanche of sentiment is out of place, surrounded
as it is with so mnch that is ultra ludicrous and wildly
farcical. For all this, however, Mr, Mervin was effective,
and his efforts were received with much favour by
those of the audience who were melodramatically in-
clined. To Mr. Albert Brennir, who played Captain
Robert, we would willingly award praise, could we con-
scientiously do so—bat we can’t. His voice is a good
one, but his acting was so stiff that at times he reminded
ns of the clockwork brigand in Mrs. Jarley’s wax-
works. None of the male representatives of the other
characters individually distinguished themselves,
though all worked smartly and compactly together.
• • •
The scenery, though good, was nothing like so
artistic as many of Mr. Gordon’s efforts; but the
dresses, in number and richness, were perhaps superior
to anything that has ever been seen in Sydney. Mr.
Van Ghele conducted with great ability, and both the
orchestra in the “ tune trough," and the brass band
upon the stage, were admirably kept under control.
Altogether, “ Tambonr Major” is a great lark, and we
recommend such of our readers as are fond of nice game
to go and have a pick at it.
* * * *
Mr. G. L. Goodman took his benefit at the
Royal last Thursday. There was a pretty good muster
in the stalls, pit, and gallery, bat the circle was only
fairly patronised. The pieces performed were : “ The
Loving Cup," by Andrew Halliday, and “All that
Glitters is not Gold," by a gentleman. The former
Eiece was capitally played, Mr. Garner coming ont of
is shell in a surprising manner in his impersonation of
Jack Easy. Mr. R. Stewart made great fun ont of
Angnstns Fipps, but poor Mrs. Stammers appeared
completely nonplussed by the stupid part of Mrs.
Driver. Mr. Cates was out of his element os the “ poor
young man," and the ladies. Miss Alma Santon and
Mias Annie Taylor, were not particularly happy as the
two barmaids. Ladies, you see, have no opportunity
of studying barmaids, and we strongly recommend that
male members of the perfesh. play such parts in
future. With regard to the second piece, our
criticism may be compressed into one sentence —“ They
didn’t know it."
* • •
We hope Mr. Goodman made money ont of the
spec., for he is not only an acting, but an active
manager, and as such deserves that wealth should be
showered on him, and emu eggs laid for him. No pre-
sentation, so far as we can gather, followed the per-
formance, which to us is a disappointment, as there is
nothing we love so much (except to see villainy
punished) as to behold virtue rewarded. We have no
doubt, howevei*, that at Mr. Goodman’s next bespeak
the usual biscuit box and fish slice will play important
Jiarts in the entertainment. It is said that everybody
ikes Mr. Goodman except unattached members of the
“ perfesh." and the town representatives of country
newspapers.
* * * *
From Melbourne we learn that “ Quilp,” at the
Bijou, is an enormous success—Fred, having, as we
firedioted, got the people by the scalp-look from the
ump. Lillie Bryer is the Little Nell, and of her
“ Adagio ” says in the Wbeklt Times “ In her little
grey dress, and poke bonnet, she might have stepped
bodily oufr of one of Cruikshank’s drawings in an
illustrated ‘ Dickens,’ so accurate was her costume."
At the Princess’, “ After Dark," with Mr. Hoskins as
Tom Fog, is being played to rather misty business, and
at the Opera House, “ The Pirates ” is still holding
the stage, but only till “ Billee Taylor," which is in
active rehearsal, is ready to put on. “ Cleopatra," at
the Royal, is in its third week, and still drawing paying
houses. The “ Fakir," at St. George’s Hall, closed his
season on the Hth, but whither the crystal fountain
will be wafted we know not.
* # 0 *
Kempsey has been well furnished with enter-
tainments of late. Professor Bruce, on the 13th and 14th
instant, gave his "popular entertainment, In which
science and instruction are combined," to the accom-
paniment of the Kempsey brass band; and a Mr. L. Tolano
(whom we strongly suspect to be an old and very dear
friend with another cognomen), who announces that he
is the “ duly pupil of Professor Baldwin at present in
the colonies, and the original exposer of Spiritualism,"
performed on the 16th, at the Good Templars’ Hall.
Ashton’s circus played three nights, commencing on
Monday, 13th, to good business; and a “Temple of
Wonder," containing a Punch and Judy, an educated
sheep that “ goes through her course of conversation,
biblical questions” (whatever that may mean), and
optical views. Things at Kempsey under the rule of
the only R.B. are evidently looking up.
* * * *
Mr. R. S. Smythe will pilot Wilhelm] (who is
shortly to arrive) through the colonies. The much-
travelled says he is fond of all kinds of locomotion. He
loves the coaches, adores the railroads, is enchanted
with the steamers, but—ahem ! —what he loves to travel
on most is to travel on a— certainty.
* * * *
Patti, says a report by last faail, will not
undertake long sea voyages, so Australia and America
are wooing her in vain. Sunny Spain will no doubt be
the favoured country for the next conquest by the
incomparable queen of song. Meantime, Primrose-hill
has been selected by the Diva as her " place of abode ”
during the coming operatic season. By the way, Mr.
Gye’s recent attempt to induce the diva to add some-
thing to her repertoire, was an absolute failure.
* * * *
De Lias and the Cardens have fallen out at
Christchurch. The latter wished to close his engage-
ment, hut De Lias objected. Jennie Watt-Tanner had
got the measles, and Maggie Knight had got much
marmalade from the local papers.
* * « *
To jumble a few items up together, we may
mention that Ella Carrington’s crowd (“ Stray Leaves’*)
have been—after getting a “ spill" at Beago, wherever
that is—doing Gundagai, Adelong, and Tumut, and it
will not be Tumutch to say that they have been doing
well, although we have not time to Adelong n0tice.......
Professor Bice, to quote his ad., “ respectfully invites
the leading residents—both ladies and gentlemen—of
Gundagai to attend an exhibition of his wonderful power
of Mind Reading, on Friday evening, at Mr. Deighton’s
Hotel Parlor,” admission being free. We pause breath-
less for a solution of the mystery. Surely the “ Prof.”
cannot be taking a Rice out of the Gundagai rnstics !
The Maggie Oliver-Seagrave crowd are at Gympie (Q.),
playing "Caste" and “Quilp." Mr. Cropper—" Photbus,
what a name I"—is announced as business manager
The Souths played “ Pinafore ” recently at Campbell-
town. Says the local plaster, “ There were people from
as far as twelve miles away, and the audience was a
most select one. The stage was too small to admit of
the ship being seen to advantage, and the piano did not
sound to advantage (sic), although presided at by the
talented Madame Anna King." Could it have been
thoughts of the rigging of the ship that caused the
writer to he so taut-ological ?
♦ » ♦
A few more theatrical sheep boxed for au appre-
ciative public. Mr. Charles Puller (Mr. Ella Carrington)
is described by the country press to be a talented writer
on looking-glasses. His work is said to be of a soap-
erior description Our enterprising friend, Mr. J. C.
Williamson, has bought the sole rights to “ Patience"
and “ Billee Taylor” for the colonies G.B.W. Lewis
has been elected Master, and J. P. Macdonald (the Gar-
tonian theatrical hagent) a Warden of the Australasian
Dramatic and Musical Association Miss Clara Hamil-
ton, the Scotch “ wocalist,” gave an entertainment at
T.E., Newcastle, on the 16th instant. “Ut waas verra
goo-od, mon.” Mr. Hinchy surpassed the other male
singers by many Hinchys. Mr. J. C. Ellis also appeared
and sang “ With verdure clad ” d-EUis-hus-lee.
** * *
During “ Tambour-Major ” at the Theatre
Royal—
Writing of the hospital concert, at Newcastle, a
little curl-paper published there, called the Dispatch,
thus speaks of the performers:—“ The archness of Miss
Hamilton, the sweet melody of Mrs. Ellis, the culti-
vated taste of Mrs. Spencer, the tender pathos of Mrs.
Watt, the richness of the voice of Mrs. Wood, the
purity of that (sic.,) and the chaste expression of Mrs.
Hannell, and the magnificent renderings of the songs of
her gifted sister, Miss Constance, together with the pre-
cision of Mr. Hinchy, the clearness and accuracy of
Mr. Gross, the noble and generous-hearted efforts of
Mr. Joseph Wood, the well-known ability of Mr. C. H.
Hannell, together with the choruses given so happily
by the Choral Union, were contributions of such an
order that could not fail but to win the plaudits which
echoed and re-echoed through every part of the house.”
The price of oleomargarine mnst have gone down in the
coally city.
* * * *
When you take your ticket—73
(Two days before the “ Tambour-Major")
Beclining in your place to see
A lady stranger does enrage yer.
But if the lady will not “ get,"
Why you must own, to your despair, it
Is no use to fame and fret,
You’d better quietly grin and bear it.
* * * *
If the notices in the Adelaide papers are to be
believed, the critics seem to have a decided objection to
swallowing the Leake. Miss Kemble's acting, on the
other hand, suits them to a Myracle.
HProfeaaor Anderaon’s aeaaon cloaed at the T.R.,
Newcastle, to a good house, on Tuesday, the 14th.
Since he left, 24 little boys have attempted to behead
their little sisters. We glean, too, that the Lismore
Minstrels and Histrionic Society gave an entertainment
recently at the Protestant Hall, Lismore. No list of
the killed and wounded has yet reached us.—At Rock-
hampton (Q.), Miss Smithson and Mr. Holloway are
announced as giving entertainments. We wonder which
Miss Smithson this is, and what Mr. Holloway ?
* * * *
The Lynch familee
Are playing at Gunnedah,
And making, we see.
Plenty of money dar.
This is the dramatic criticism of the future. Mais
passons.
* * * *
At Hokitika (N.Z.) J. J. Wallace is playing the
“ Man from America." Miss Alice Johns is in the cast.
Carrie Godfrey is playing Prince Paul at Wanganui,
with the Simonsons.
“ And this is what they say of her.
And this is what they say of her.
And this is what they say of her
In that nice Wanganui Chronicle
11 As Prince Paul, Miss Carrie Godfrey appeared to per-
feotion. Her conception of the soft, lisping nobleman,
over head and ears in love, and yet unable to express
his emotions in suitable language, was true to the life."
We hope the time may not be far distant when we shall
hear Miss. Carrie sing the “ Hamburg Journal ’’ song in
Sydney.
* * * *
Liddy’s “ Pirates of Penzance ” troupe is at
Rockhampton, and at latest dates the Zips were at
Cooktown. James South is about to produce, we hear,
“ The Pirates ” in the country, having purchased the
right from " J.C." By the way, we will celebrate James
in a little stanza; —
When, James, yon read a little par.
You hate, don’t get a “ tear " on:
You’ll find it, Jimmy, better far
To always keep your hair on.
* * * *
A drama called “ Australia,” treating of the
adventures of the Kelly gang, was recently played at
the London Grecian. It was hastily produced, and
damned as expeditiously.
* * * *
We called in to have a look at the dwarf the
other day, but were sorry to find that Mr. Sonsee, hav-
ing that day been bidding some- brother artists adieu,
was doing a siesta. The giant, however, was on view.
Jndging from an intellectual point of view, " Rob Roy ”
is rather a dull giant, and his breadth is a good deal
more phenomenal than his height. He is, of course, a
Scotchman, for he is dressed up in exact imitation of a
snuff-shop Highlander. Looking at him critically, we find
that, although he is bigger than David Buchanan, he is
not so very big—for a giant. We enquired of him whether
a crumpled rose-leaf would affect the ease of his downy
couch, and he promptly replied that he usually took his
with a dash of porter. Mr. Solomon, the proprietor
informed us that the giant was not much of a draw, bat
that Dominic Sonsee, Esq., was clearing £2O per week.
Mr, Solomon also corroborated Mr. Vnffin in his opinion
that one dwarf was harder to manage than a caravan of
giants he having had some “barney” with Mr. Sonsee
in respect of time allowed for his (Dominic's) menus
platstrs. The show next proceeds to Newcastle.
** * *
We learn from the Redfern Times—a paper
which is nothing when it is not truthful, and not much
when it is—that Frank Masted is about to produce, on
a grand scale, Arthur Sullivan’s oratorio, “ The Pro-
digal Son." Mr. Hinchy is engaged for a fiver—we mean
for a tenor,—and a gentleman called Orlderdyoe (fatal
name !) will do the bass growl. We hope Mr. Maxted
will find his enterprise profitable ; and as the Redfern
Times has promised its snoport, doubtless a financial
and musical triumph is awaiting him.
** * *
Professor Hume, the well-known bump-manipnla-
“ orated ” on “ Dynasties " at the Temperance Hall, on
the Hth instant. We didn’t go ourselves, but we are
told that it was quite nice, and that some of the ladies
were so delighted that they have been singing “ Hume,
sweet Hume," ever since.
** * *
A broken-down actor living recently in Sydney
called on a theatrical manager to ask for an engage-
ment. The manager declined. “ Why won’t you give
me a chance ?" cried the actor. “ Because,” returned
the other, “ You infuse too much spirit into your parts."
Pact I
** * *
Jos. Pickersgill has succeeded A. Hayman as
manager for Miss Pomeroy. We understand this
talented author was selected from amongst 200 appli-
cants—amongst whom were included two members of
Parliament, five J.’sP., and a Quaker. The preference
was given to Jos on account of his brilliant still as a
dramatist, as exemplified in his masterly farce of
“ Catching the Kellys.” We believe that J.P. goes
about now exclaiming, when he meets the late manager,
“Le roy est mart, vive le Pome-roy." Bat then Jos was
always a French scholar.
** * *
Sir Michael Costa is now voted out of date as
an operatic conductor. He is too much of a martinet.
There is not a lady singer that was ever under the rule
of his iron baton but can tell you, with a heaving
bosom, how many tears Michael cost her. Sir M. is
sore, but he has not retired, as alleged in the Musical
Times and The Academy, and in writing to the London
Standard to deny the report he says:—“ I am still
actively engaged as conductor of the Sacred Harmonic
Society, and am ready to resume my functions as an
operatic conductor as soon as I can meet with a
manager who will respect alike the public and the
musical art."
* # *
This is, of course, a slap at Mapleson and Gye.
Considering the family of the latter have been instru-
mental in building up Costa’s fortune, we are sorry to
see him indulging in such petulant Gye-ver.
** * *
Miss Alice Rees, a Victorian-born vocalist, is
shortly to appear at the Opera House as Josephine, in
"Pinafore." Let us hope that anticipations of her
vocal success have been formed upon Rees-onable bases.
** * *
Prom London we hear that Gilbert and Sul-
livan’s new sesthetic opera, “ Patience,” has been
produced at the London Opera Comique. The critics
differ a great deal as to whether it is likely to be as
successful as either “ Pinafore ” or “ The Pirates."
The work, on both sides, however, is admitted to be
first-class. “Almaviva” (Clement Scott), in London
Figaro, says :—“ I have no doubt that ‘ Patience ’ will
attain a considerable measure of popularity, but I ques-
tion if there is as much ‘ money in it ’ as in ‘ Pinafore'
and * The Pirates.’ ”
* • •
The Colonel in the opera sings a very funny
patter song, on the model of the Major-General's,
commencing;—
“ If you want a receipt for that popular mystery,
Known to the world as a Heavy Dragoon.”
And there is also a duet, by Bunthoma and Grosvenor,
which is said to be excruciatingly droll. “ Talking of
Gilbert, he seems to have (says “ Almaviva”) for his
plays peculiar affection for the letter P—witness ' Pyg-
malion and Galatea,’ ‘ The Palace of Truth,’ ‘ Pinafore,'
' The Pirates of Penzance,’ and * Patience.’
* * »
And while writing of London, we may as well
mention that John M’Cullough has appeared at Old
Drury with success as Virginias; that Creswick was
better, but rather (being feeble) a frost in Hamlet, at
the Standard; that George R. Sims’ (“Dagonet") new
play, “Mother-in-law," is a tremendous success. Of
this piece a clever critic remarks : —“ Upon the dialogue
Mr. Sims has poured forth the contents of a teeming
brain in rich, undisciplined profusion. Every imaginable
species of je u d’esprit Las he laid under contribution,
ranging from the thoroughly excellent, to the quite too
utterly execrable. It is a perfect chaos of jokes."
“ Michael Strogoff " continues to draw immense crowds
at the Adelphi, Mrs. Herman Vezin and Mr. H. J. Byron
being the stars,
** * *
Mr. G. H. Taylor writes us that the “ Leaves’'
will be at Tass till the 30th inst.; and he also mentions
that the presentation to Mr. Forde on his leaving the
company consisted of a Waltham watch, given by Miss
Carrington, and a ring by himself. He also gives an
account of an adventure the company had in the
mountains, which, as it is written in a few words and
in decipherable caligraphy (rare alas! this latter with
the "perfesh”) we will print for him.
* * *
He writes: —“We saw life ‘in the mountains
high' lately. On our way from Tumbarumha to Tumut
via Bago we got snowed up, and had to camp out in the
snow last Sunday night. Our horses being completely
knocked up, we were compelled to walk to Bago and
wait for two days for horses to come from Tamut. If
you had seen the * Leaves’ tramping it, the pianist
with a couple of hat boxes and a bag of chaff on his
shoulder. Miss Carrington with ticket boxes, fryingpan
and billy, and yours truly with a Chinaman’s pack on
his shoulder, consisting of several stray portmanteaus
and carpet-bags—you’d a’ been struck with wonder and
admiration. All this is amusing, but rather expensive,
for we have lost two nights in Tumut and one in
Adelong through being * snowed-np.’ ”
** * *
We hear from Adelaide that Mrs. Wieland,
widow of the late Tom Wieland, the well-known clown,
has married again. The man of her choice is a detec-
tive-constable named Rogers. This is what we call
going m for protection with a vengeance.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
George Brine, known as the “ King of the
Vagrants," has iust died in the union workhouse at
Sherborne, Dorsetshire, of which he had been an in»
mate for about ten years. He boasted that he had been
in every gaol and workhouse in England, and in a sketch
of his life said he had been in gaol more than 100 times,
but that he had never been convicted of felony or
larceny.
The Hon. George Charles GrantleyFitzhardinge
Berkeley, of Dursley House, Poole, Dorsetshire, has
left to his “ faithful servant, Matilda Leversuch, his
little terrier ‘Jack,’ and an annuity of sixty pounds so
long as “ Jack ” shall live. On the dog’s death she will
receive an annuity of £3O, which is to continue during
her life and the life of the person she may bequeath it
to at her death. It is pretty certain that poor little
terrier Jack will be in clover for the rest of his days.
May he never know the want of a rat to worry.
Here is an extract from a verdict recently
returned by a Victorian jury: “ That some
insurance companies are responsible for a large per-
centage of the incendiarism which takes place, by
accepting risks far above the value insured, thereby
offering a premium to dishonest people, to the disad-
vantage of those who insure to protect themselves
against total loss in case of accidental fire.” Now,
this fits Sydney like a glove. We know one insurance
company which will any day insure for £lOOO a house
worth £5OO.
'Twos in the stalls one night last week
A lot of people met —
“ How nice," qnoth one, “ that Nellie plays
The part of Qri-o-t«t."
“ Your ignorance,” another said,
” Is very sad to see;
You don’t pronounce it Gri-o-l«t,
But like this—Qri-o-lee.”
** Pooh, pooh," a bank clerk did rejoin,
" Now after m« repeat:
There’s but one way to say the word.
And that is Qri-o-leet«.”
"Oh, nonsense," said a journalist,
I’m sure that is not right;
I was a week in Paree once,
• And I say—Qri-o-life.”
** Eidicnlous 1" a Membah said,
” I’ll tell you the right way.
Just open wide your month, and gasp—
Like this, man—Qri-o-laj/.”
Now, when they on this had agreed.
Another came to spoil it:
Quoth he, “ You’re ev’ry man Jack wrong—
The proper name is Groilet."
A MELBOURNE MUSS.
(Vide recent telegram to the EVENING NEWS.)
There was a certain gay Signor
(This tale shall be laconic).
Who' though fast wedded by the law.
Indulged in love platonic.
His wife avowed he never kissed her.
Yet oft did someone else’s sister.
He was a bit of an aesthete
(Lots now are of that nater I),
And lovely ladies liked to treat
Sometimes to the the-a-tre.
It happened one night he took two.
And 10, hi* missis cam* there too.
Then there occurred a “ how d’ye do";
The wife essayed to tear one
Of the ladies’ hair, then 10.
She banged the other fair one !
She looked then for the Signor, but
Ere she could deal, why he had cut ,


PEPPER AND SALT.
Prior to his recent distribution, the late
>Czar was passionately fond of billiards, and we have
good authority for stating that the following is the
only correct report of the conversation which ensued
after the explosion of the first bomb Coachman (evi-
dently slightly nervous): “Sire, you’re dead.” “Am
I?" replied the elder Nick, as hp got his cue. “Then
gimme another marble —I'll star a fresh life." The
Nihilist marker then passed the marble, but Death got
Nicholas over the pocket, and scooped in the pool.
J1.1.P •
• • •
The Adelaide Government having reduced the
salaries of certain small officials, one Mr. Mattinson
lately bounced up, and asked if the Ministers intended
to reduce their own ! This is the best “ goak ” we have
read since poor Artemns Ward closed up his show ; and
as the Sydney Mail is in want of a man possessing
humour and wit, as they term it there, we have much
pleasure in introducing Mr. Mattinson.
* * «
At present there are two D.T.’s in Sydney. One
costs a penny—the other about a pound. We prefer
the pound, or delirium, one ourselves, because, when we
get a genuine copy of this, we see pink dogs, with striped
ears and green tails, and many other things which, if
they do not interest, at least amuse ns. Not being in
-the fish or greengrocery line, the penny article to us is
-almost useless.
* * «
When MTlwraith, the Queensland Premier, was
in London lately, he was invited by the Lord Mayor to
a state banquet at the Mansion House, and was placed
about six seats distant from that dignitary. After the
toasting had commenced, the toast-master, an official
of preternatural pomposity, marched round to the back
of the blnff Queenslander’s chair, and in a loud and
solemn voice delivered himself thus: “ My Lord: The
Eight Honorable the Lord Mayor presents his compli-
ments and requests that Your Excellency will be so
good as to respond to the next toast.” Mao thought
-there had been some slight mistake, and replied: “ But
J am not ‘ My Lord.’ ” This staggered the Gorgeous
One for a moment, but recovering himself slightly he
demanded severely, “ Then who are yon ?” Mac., a
■trifle nettled, replied that he was Mr. M Ilwraith. Suc-
cumbing to the unspeakable ignorance respecting these
.colonies which is characteristic of Englishmen, the
municipal officer—who very likely had not even heard
of Sir ’Enery Parkes —beat a retreat, and had a brief
colloquy with the Lord Mayor. Invigorated by this
contact with Power, he returned to the charge with
refreshed importance, and once more posting himself
behind the Queensland Premier’s chair, he inflated his
lungs and roared: “Your Excellency! The Eight
Honorable the Lord Mayor regrets the mistake, and
will be glad to drink wine with you.” This time Mac.
got scotty, and retorted sharply, “ But I told yon I’m
not ‘Your Excellency.”’ The man of toasts retired
discomfltted, and had another colloquy with the Lord
Mayor, and returning, pronounced with conclusiveness,
“ Your Excellency!’’ “ Man 1” interrupted the Queens-
lander, “didn’t I tell you I’m not ’Your Excellency?’ ”
“But,” rejoined the toast-master, clinching the
matter, “ The Eight Honorable the Lord Mayor says
you are 1” Then Mac. got mad, and said something
that sounded like a remark about jam, and a ripple of
chuckles went round the table.
* # *
Now when we lady and gentlemen commoners put our
necks in the fatal noose, Alfred’s Nooze simply says we
are the daughters or sons of our fathers, and it is there-
fore naturally left an open question as to whether we
ever had a mother at all, or whether someone had the
luck to win her at a Zulu War panorama. Next time
we indulge in matrimonial bliss we’ll see that Alfred
gives our maternal relative as fair a show as our
.governor,—or else we’ll take our custom round to the
Morning Mystery.
* • #
They’ve pot ’em again ! Monday’s Daily
'Telecram cheerfully announces the marriage of the
"“second daughter of Sir Henry Barkes, K.C.M.G. 1”
We don’t expect either gospel truths, er grammatical
.correctness from the staff of the D T., but, hang it all,
they might learn to spell. What is Fame if her Ta-ran-
ita-ra cannot be heard as far as York-street. Barkes I
Shades of the mighty Caesars I What a name is Barkes!
Touching the same festive ceremony;—and, by the way,
we wish the happy pair joy—the only Noozs gives a real
.good bob’s worth in the following:—
Marriage:—Murray—Parkes.—June 15, at Paul-
conbridge, by the Eev. John Vaughan, George
Murray. Esq., to Mary Edith, second daughter
of the Hon. Sir Henry and Lady Parkes.
The Northern Argus (Q.) of June 9 has, by
way of dishing up a subject of intense interest to its
subscribers, treated them to a two column leader on
■the Roumanian question. The Eockhamptonites are
now wondering how far north of the Aramac Roumania
is, and whether the track to It from the Thompson is
well watered.
# * #
The Gympie Times has an “own correspon-
dent ” in Sydney who ought to be canonized—or kicked.
He sends to his broken-hearted employer on the 15th
May, this “pro-dig-ious ” wire:—“ln the Insolvent
■Court Judge Dowling ruled that Mr. Dibbs’ recent
imprisonment will release him from Shepherd’s claim
in his estate amounting to £3300 for verdict and costs
in the late slander case.” The funny part of this is
that it was Judge Josephson who was on the bench,
and who ruled that Mr. Dibbs’ imprisonment did not
release him from the demands of the “ Gentle Shep-
herd.” Possibly, however, this correspondent gleaned
his legal information, as do many other correspondents,
■from the Supreme Court—Hotel.
* • ♦
We want to know who that officer ia who, after
.an evening party, thinking he was “ going his rounds,”
called at the dead-house and asked the bodies there if
they had any complaints to make.
• * •
“ Light of the Universe ! What does it mean P
Does anybody know ? ” Certainly. John Davies.
* *
*
In the Brisbane Telephone, an advertisement
states that “ An Angel Doctor will be in attendance to
examine and cure diseases of all kinds. Accommodation
for a few patients from the country." We wonder now
whether the “ Angel Doctor” has got wings, or whether
it is only decorated like another medical cherubim we
know, with an aquiline proboscis and “ side levers P ’’
• • *
From Albury we learn that “ a brutal assault
had been committed by Alexander Dewar on Mrs. Doug-
las, an old woman residing at Lester’s Gap. Dewar is a
labourer employed by the complainant, and being refused
wine attacked her brutally, battering her about the head
and kicking her when down.” As no Kiama justices
are likely to adjudicate, we trust the ruffian will meet
with his deserts, and that peine forte et Dewar is what
Dewar will en-Dewar.
* * *
The second number of the Tingha Banner
has reached us, and we enjoyed it greatly. The stylo in
which it is printed betrays considerable amount of
originality on the part of the machinist. The local
pars, are smart, and must prove of great interest and
value to the Banner’s constitueHts. Here is one of
them: —“ Two noted ‘ shootists,’ each armed with a
double-barrelled breech-loader and about 47 rounds of
ammunition, went sailing down the creek the other
morning, to attack 10 black ducks. One of them shot
a mud-lark, and the other nearly shot Mr. Bourke’s
cockatoo.” From this happy commencement we can
safely, we think, argue, that whether the Tingha paper
will have a short life or a long life, it is pretty sure to
he a " merry ” one.
« « «
In South Australia there resides a steady-going,
stolid old German minister, who is the sole proprietor
of a steady-going, stolid old chesunt horse, and when
not engaged in active missionary work the said horse
chews his lucerne, and enjoys the scenery in a three-
acre paddock at the rear of his master’s house. One day
last week a Sydney drummer chanced to pass that way,
mounted on a horse which was the exact counterpart,
so far as appearance went, of our friend the German’s.
The drummer’s horse was, however, slightly imbued
with Nihilistic tendencies, and consequently seized
every opportunity he could to place his rider with
“ his back to the field,” and his feet pointed in a rather i
defiant manner at the noon-day sun. This made the
drummer sick, and noticing the remarkable resemblance
between the German’s horse and his own, he quietly
slipped his saddle on the former, let his own frisk away
in the paddock, and then pursued his journey. Having
transacted his business he steered for home, and passed
the paddock alluded to above just in time to see the
reverend gentleman from Vaterland chasing his (the
drummer’s) horse roundthe paddock for the 77th time.
“You seem to have a lively time of it there. Mister,"
called out the bagman across the fence. “ Ach ! Mein
got in himmel!” roared the modem Martin Luther,
“he ish so like ash ven he hof der teufel mit him. He vas
like dot pefore never yet vat I doesh remember. Voah I
mein goot liddle pony, or you doand look ond I yoost
rap you mit dish bole und I maik you shmell stars, I
dell you.” Being in an obliging humour, the drummer
caught and saddled the cheerful chesnut, and the
worthy minister mounted. Two seconds after he was
picked up in the next allotment; his coat was split
from Dan to Beersheba, and his general appearance
would remind one of a billsticker’s wall after a heavy
shower had played on it. Then the drummer’s heart
was moved to compassion, and, taking Martin Luther
aside, he said, “ Look here, friend, my nag outside is
just the thing you want —sound as a rock, and quiet as
a lamb—give me five notes to boot, and I’ll do a swop
with yon.” The minister closed at once. The drummer
hauled out his eccentric steed, and hanled in the
parson’s fiver, after which the crowd went their way
rejoicing.
* * •
“ Marcus Clarke, sub-librarian at the Melbourne
Public Library, has been adjudicated insolvent.”
Marcus Clarke has touched the wrong
Pecuniary pedal;
The news to us is wired along
That he has filed his “ sheddle.”
The Jew that takes your little gold
And on your goods distrains.
Is after all, dear Marcus, sold—
He cannot take your brains.
• • *
It was up North. He was a Civil servant
with a loving spouse, and all the entreaties of
his friends failed to induce him to remain late at that
big dinner. So he left at 10. But as at 2 a.m. he
had not reached home, they went to look him up. The
moon discovered to the searchers the recumbent form of
the Civil servant, who peacefully slumbered in a
paddock not a hundred yards from the scene of the
night’s festivities. In a voice trembling with emotion
he explained to the “ old woman ” that “ for four
mortal hours he had been chasing round after that
infernal white gate, but couldn’t catch it.” The only
easy mode of egress from that paddock was by slip-
panels. There was nothing white in the place except a I
calf. Bnt then we all make mistakes, sometimes.
It is said that whenever a certain Brisbane baker
wants a par. about his shop in the Courier, be sends
the gifted editor of that journal a large pork pie. And
he always gets the “ local,” for the editor in question is
noted for his pie-ty—or, let us make it again, his pi-
ety,
• * *
It is against the eternal fitness of things that
“ Ada” should write in the Lyre. She says she never
even heard of the Australasian. This is charming—
bewitchingly ingenuous. We don’t know now which to
admire the more—Ada’s prose or Ada’s poetry.
* * *
There are some delirious passages in the D. T.’s
attempt to narrate the plot of “ La Fille du Tambour-
Major. This, for example:—“ In a conversation
between the Duke and the Duchess, it transpires that
Stella is the daughter of the Duchess (previously only
a poor laundress by a former husband, a drum-major in
the army) and the Duke insists that Bambini shall be
told all before the marriage." Is this a genius for
mysterious romance, or “ the horrors.” What is “ a
laundress by a former husband ?"
# * ♦
The Herald treats its readers to a whole
column descriptive of the late fight at Rand wick ; the
Morning Misery follows suit with a similar dose; and
the gentle Alfred’s graphic account of the fun could
have been written by the man on the adjacent fence
only. We wonder where the religions journals get all
these sub rosa tips from ? We knew nothing whatever of
the fight, and of course foolishly went to church.
* * *
“ Will you venture on an orange, John,” said
the Premier blandly to Mr. Lucas, at a recent banquet.
“ No, thank you, Hal,” replied the portly John; 11 when-
ever I do feel inclined to sit on the floor, I like to do it
more deliberately.”
tt * #
In Melbourne, a man hailing from Wellington,
N.Z., is known at once as coming from that city by the
fact of his holding on to his hat in turning every street
comer; whilst a male visitor from Sydney proclaims
the locality from whence he comes by walking about
the streets in all weathers with his trousers tucked up.
• * *
The Western Champion (Q.) announces
that our new J’s.P. have been “ Grazetted,”
* * *
Last week the Queensland Attorney-General’s
buggy and pair ran away. The horses were injured, and
the buggy was —Coopered.
* ♦ •
“Captain James E. Erskine, R.N., Private
Secretary to the Lords Commissioners of the Ad-
miralty, has been appointed to succeed Commodore
Wilson as Commander of the Australian naval station.”
We now understand that on a former occasion Captain
Erskine was offered the appointment, but declined it.
We therefore get the first time of Erskine at the second
time of Erskine. Ce n'est pas plus difficile que qa I
* • •
Evqry new J.P. can talk of—haw —“ my cousin,
the membah."
* • *
The Northern Miner has, all of a sudden,
become severely virtuous. Speaking of the present
social condition of Charters Towers, it has this extra-
ordinary paragraph;—“ Society here is curiously consti-
tuted ; most of the rogues and scoundrels are at the top,
or near it. Humble honesty takes a back seat, and is
sat upon by the demi-monde." We musingly wonder,
now, where Thadens sits.
* * *
A special messenger from Melbourne informs
us that Bonnor (every cricketer who has got
thus far in this item will now be breathless)
rides through the fashionable suburbs of that city
every afternoon on a very tall steeplechaser, and is
thus enabled to shake hands with his numerous lady
friends, who are looking out of their first-floor drawing,
room windows. A St. Kilda belle has gained a kind of
Madame de Stael-ish reputation in the Antipodean
Babylon, by saying that the great B. has "such a
wicket smile." When we hear any more about Mr.
Bonnor, or any other equally celebrated cricketer, we
will, of course, print a special edition.
SMALL PARS. ON THE SMALL-POX.
Virulent variola. A splendid consignment just
to hand ex steamer Brisbane. Agents wanted for Vic-
toria, Queensland, and South Australia. For steady,
active canvassers, there’s millions of pounds—and
pustules—in it. Try our Variola Australis. No respect-
able family should be without it. It’s at every picnic—
bar one.
* • *
Sydney declared an infected port. Sir ’Enry
(log) ; “ All is now lost, save honour.’’ Graham Berry
(d la Kemble-Macready-Holloway): “ Saved 1 Saved!
I ber-reathe again I" “ It’s an ill wind,’* &c.
m * »
Says the Morning Mystery of Thursday last :
—“lmmediately on hearing of the small-pox case in
Bellevue-street, the Mayor had all the streets and lanes
in the neighbourhood swept and cleaned.’’ Verily all
things are good, and even small-pox is of service if used
at the proper juncture. The Terry-Hughes estate was
last cleansed shortly after the death of Julius Caesar.
• « •
A correspondent, who signs himself “ Pustules
Proper,” asks: “ Why is it Milner Stephen doesn’t
step out now, and get his name up by blowing on Won
Ping and the rest of the infected patients ?” Echo
answers, “ Not for Joseph ” —nor Milner either. Puffs
and prayers are sudden death on. ducal deafness, but
they don’t seem to have much grip on pustules.
» *' «
Joy! Joy! Unutterable joy for all Good
Templars I The greatest and most reliable disinfectant,
after all, is Ben Wy vis whisky. There are two occasions
when it should be always taken —viz., whenever a
■ suspected place is passed, and secondly—whenever it
isn’t. Whisky’s greatest foes are variola and—John
Davies.
« « •
It is with great reluctance that we draw public
attention to the reprehensible conduct of our Govern-
ment Astronomer during the small-pox scare, but we
have a duty to perform,—and when duty calls we don’t
take odds from Trafalgar Nelson, Dave Buchanan, or
any other man. It is now placed beyond all doubt that
for some time past our sun has been in a most unhealthy
state. Spots covering an area of 80,000 miles or so
have been repeatedly noticed on its face, violent
symptoms have also been observed, and yet no steps
were taken to have him quarantined-*-in fact. Dr.
Dansey was never asked to even look round and feel the
pulse of Phoebus. We have no hesitation whatever in
saying that On Chong’s girl, being a moon-faced child of
the sun itself, caught the contagion from her solar
relative; and yet this infected reprobate of a sun is
still allowed to be at large and shine upon us. Perhaps
Mr. Tebbutt will step over and vaccinate him.
• * #
Monday.—Three decided cases of small-pox now
declared. It is satisfactory, however, to know that
there is “ no immediate danger.”
Tuesday.—Small-pox of the most violent type just
discovered in a Chinese hovel at Waterloo. Luckily
for us there is " no immediate danger.”
Wednesday.—Oneof the variola victims has just died,
and will be buried to-morrow morning. It is gratify,
ing, however, to be assured there is “no immediate
danger."
• * *
Jones to Brown (excitedly): “ Good Heavens !
Brown, what a terrible time we’re having. S.P. to the
right of us, S.P. to the left of us; what do you take for
it P" Brown (calmly) : Me—oh, I take rum as a rule."
Jones (savagely): “Don’t be a fool, man—don’t joke
over such a serious subject. Look at me—l’ve got
carbolic soap in this pocket, muriatic acid in this,
camphorated oil in this, powdered sulphur in this,
liquid ammonia in my hat, coal tar on my hair, Condy’s
fluid on my shirt, and Pottie’s Preventive down my
boots. The first pustule that pokes out its head oh me
gets that head caved in before it has time to look round
and ask which is the nearest route to the bone-yard.”
Mr. Jones then skipped away to chase up a new remedy,
and Mr. Brown let go his nose and resumed business.
* * *
The girl who told her seedy lover he needn’t call
again, as “dad had just struck ile," is slightly out of
date at present. What we want to strike just now is
carbolic acid.
* * *
The Noos says “the fumes from the tar used for
the wooden blocks in Pitt-street have become a popular
and cheap disinfectant. They attract a large number
of sniffers.” Is it thus that these Noos-men impose
upon the most generous of employers ? Pour pubs, j net
where the tarpots are, and yet they ask “ please, sir, may
I go out and sniff ?” What duplicity !
# # #
Greatly to be pitted—Small-pox patients.
* * *
Preventive against small-pox: A good dis-
infectant and keeping up one’s spirits. Say a box of
cigars, and The Bulletin, weekly.
* * *
The patentee in Melbourne of Hunter’s dis-
infectant has offered to send five tons to Sydney on
trial. Now if this disinfectant is for the public benefit,
■ we advise the patentee not to send it here for trial—at
least not by a jury of four.
* * *
The Princes won’t come to Sydney now. Their
mother has learned that there is small-pox and a
teetotal mayor in the city, and has cabled the Admiral
that she can’t have Wales’ boys exposed to the
infection. This is aggravating. We had hoped that
John Davies, C M.G., would have been knighted, not to
speak of the Eight Worshipful.
* * *
It’s hard to distinguish typhoid fever from small-
pox at first. As a general rule, you can’t tell until
you’ve had it. If you’re not alive then, it’s most likely
small-pox.
* * *
This is steel-plated “ gospel.” The day before
yesterday a small shopkeeper in Surry Hills, having a
cold id his dose, requested his wife to wash him out an
old yellow silk pocket-handkerchief. The good woman
did so, and while her husband was attending to the
shop, hung the orange-coloured bandanna out of the
first floor window to dry. Half an hour later his doors
(back and front) were barricaded from the outside, his
shutters were hammered in with tenpenny nails, two
policemen stood on guard opposite, >nd a great big
board was propped against his residence having the
ominous legend in indifferent police caligraphy—
“ SMALL POX INFECTED HOUSE.
BEWARE.”
They had mistaken his handkerchief for the quarantine
flag. /
w • *
Really, tbe Government are carrying their vac-
cination craze to great lengths. Ordering the police
and the Government boatmen to be operated on is all
right; but when it comes to vaccinating the Mayor and
the Town Hall foundations, the steam-launch Pinafore,
Lord Augustus’ prize roosters, Captain Cook’s statue,
and Li Fille du Tambour-Major, the bounds of modera-
tion seem to be overstepped.
* * «
The Gunnedah man of the Noos wires :—“ The
news about the small-pox creates terror! The leading
article in the Evening News is considered just, and for
the public benefit.” It is generally supposed that after
penning that telegram, the gifted author went over the
way with his hair chattering and his teeth standing on
end, and got the chemist to vaccinate him in seven
places; after which, he wrapped his head in the Noos,
and tried to sleep off tbe effects. Such a man should be
worth more than five shillings per column. Threw in
another half-crown, or a tube of vaccine lymph, Alf., as
some small recognition.
♦ * •
The Premier explains that he let the small-pox
in because it was fit that everything— la petite veroU
included—should proceed from what George Eeid calls
“ the mother colony of the Australias." However, Sir
Henry now says that as there’s so much row about this
trifling matter, he’s prepared to receive applications
from infected persons who are willing to travel over to
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, New Zealand, and Tas-
mania, and get all the colonies level once more.
We understand that during his temporary in-
carceration Dr. Foucart employs his leisure hour in
totting up the exact amount of money he will require to
have placed on the next estimates.
* • *
Which, cherished reader, would you rather, at
this juncture, face—a bushranger with pistols, or a baby
with pustules ?
•- * •
The Government have gone in a perisher for
vaccination. We don’t know what truth there is in the
report that, with the noble action of setting an ex-
ample, all the members of the Ministry in town have
been vaccinated, and that Sir 'Enery took wonderfully
well. The dreadful report that treachery has been at
work, and that it has been discovered too late that our
Protestant Premier was inoculated from a Roman
Catholic child not even attending a public school, and
has since shown symptoms of extraordinary aberration,
declaring that he is determined to foster Catholic
ascendancy, and will appoint His Holiness Archbishop
Vaughan his spiritual director vice M’Guven, probably
is a spiteful or nervous invention of the 'Oly ’Owl.
** * *
For a journal which objects to sensational
writing, and took such lofty tone lately about The
Bulletin’s style, the Daily Telegraph is working up
a small-pox scare in quite a surprising manner. It
starts the subject gently on Friday with a little heading
thus:—
THE SMALL-POX PLAGUE,
and keeps up the vivacious impression so effected, by
throwing in cross-heads and death-bones at intervals
down the column. First an announcement of
THE SCOURGE SPREADING,
followed by some heaped up agony-writing, and leading
up ghoulishly to
THE INFECTION AT WATERLOO,
respecting which cheerful topic it entertains its readers
till they are ripe for learning about
CUMBERLAND STREET A PLAGUE SPOT,
in which respect it seems to resemble a corner of York
and Barrack-streets, where will probably happen among
newspapers
THE FIRST DEATH,
which is the next sepulchral raw-head in which the
Telegraph indulges before proceeding to encourage
the public to keep up their spirits, by calling their
attention to
ISOLATION AND THE YELLOW FLAG,
which leads gracefully up to
THE RAGE FOR VACCINATION,
treated by the Telegraph as if it were a sort of funereal
toast, coupled, with the name of Sir George Innes.
This transient levity is quickly followed up, and the
hearts of parents are made to leap by the considerate
announcement of—
THE SCHOOLS THINNED,
which screaming and happily conceived jocularity seems
to have been the culmination of the genius embodied in
the article, as it dwindles to extinction with a flicker-
ing line about
LATEST PARTICULARS.
* ♦ ♦
Now, we are so enamoured of this style that we have
two minds to adopt it ourselves, somewhat in this
fashion—
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH
is an excellent paper of its kind. A different sort of
paper might in like case be
DETERMINED TO FRIGHTEN
all competitors from its path by a display of ability,
and might amuse
ITS READERS TO DEATH
rather than get the reputation of dull mediocrity.
Speaking figuratively, it is difficult to say what means
would bo effectual in reaching people’s “ spirits”
IF BORING WON’T DO IT.
V.
Phosphonsed oats v. Warrnambool rabbits.
Verdict for the plaintiffs. Defendants removed to next
world.
There ip plenty of room for more candidates at
onr matriculation examinations. Our University Hall
ranks third among those of the United Kingdom.
The runaway horse will soon bo a thing of the
past. An American has invented a contrivance by
which the driver, on pulling a cord, instantly blind-
folds the animal.
The reason which prompts the French to
meddle so extensively with Tunisian affairs is that they
wish' to acquire possession off, or at any rate command,
the port oflßizerta, which could easily be converted
into an African Toulon.
At the monthly meeting of the Lodge Oxford,
No. 22, N.S.W.C., the following officers were
install* jfl in their respective offices : W. Master,
Bro. W. D. Earnes; S. Warden, Bro. W. Hay-
ward; J. Warden, Bro. Dr. Eiedewaldt; sec. Bro. Q.
Larsen; J. G., Bro. J. Beveridge; Tyler, W. H. Garrick.
D.G.M. Bro. A. W. Manning officiated as installing
master, and with a few encouraging words addressed
the new participants in office. An adjournment to a
banquet at Host JRainford’s, where the usual toasts were
proposed, brought to a close a very pleasant evening.
In America they are now using electricity ex-
tensively to light gas, and turn it on and off in private
houses. This is accomplished either by ivory push-
buttons, which is the “ automatic” system, and by
means of which the gas in any part of a public or
private building can be turned on or off from a distance,
or by the " Pendant” system, where the mere pulling
of a light chain attached to each burner, which, on
being pulled once, lights the gas, and, on being pulled a
second time, shuts it off. This new invention not only
does away with the Are risk of matches, but it is also a
great security against burglars, as the entire bouse or
any particular room indicated by the attached burglar-
alarm can be instantly illuminated from the proprietor’s
bedroom.
A clergyman, a friend of the late editor of the
Chicago Journal, was in the habit of tendering fre-
quent and profound advice on the subject of writing
and editing. One day he was asked by his victim to put
his views on his favourite subject into a leading article.
The minister flushed up, put a bold face on the
matter, and took off his gloves—and his overcoat —and
his hat. Then he sat down. He had always been talk-
ing about how it should be done, and now he was going
to show them what could be done. He started. The
editor also went to work, and wrote a column or two
of matter, left him still writing, and went out for a
couple of hours. When he came back the clergyman
was still at it. He became afraid; he could only spare
six columns. He sat down and wrote about three more.
At last the poor parson rase, and, timidly advancing
with a side of “copy” in one hand, suddenly turned, and
sat down to ■alter a word. Then he came on again, look-
ing like a man who had had a bad dream, held out the
“ copy,” and feebly asked, “ Will that do ?” The editor
looked. There were just seven lines. He condensed it
into four, and had it inserted, but the rev. gentlemau
never returned to offer his thanks or his advice.
A LAMENT.
‘ A police constable named M‘Gee is now in
custody, charged with attempting to commit suicide.
Monetary embarrassment is supposed to be the cause of
the attempt.”
There was a peeler named M'Gee
Who did his lot bemoan :
Quoth he, “My friends are weak, I see
They cannot stand a loan.”
His goods and chattels he did pawn,
E’en to his Sunday coat ; *
He “ cut” hif family one mom.
And then he cut his throat.
His mate came round, with many a sigh ;
Did full of horrors sup;—
“ You’re sorry,” said M'Gee, “ yet I
Am even more cut up.
“ The world would nothing do for me—
I was a wretched elf j
And so I thought,” said poor M‘Qee,
“ That I’d ‘ do for ’ myself.
** Oh, take me down to the church-yard.
I’ve drunk the bitter cnp."
But all they’d do, these crushers hard.
Was take the poor man up.
There is, ye numbers av the foorce,
A moral in this rhyme:
We’d point it, boys, you know, of course.
But now we haven’t time.
TOWN HALL SMALL-POX NOTICE.
(NEW STILX.)
For half-a-crown.
Each man in town
Can vaccinated be
By Doctor Dansey,
Only fancy I
Thirty pence the fee !
Yea, aided by brave Barry Fox,
He daily wrestles with small-pox.


Public Compa
£tOENWALL
FIRE AND 1
ANCE COMPAI
CAPITAL, £lOO,l
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A, LLOYD A!
Agents,
348 QEORGE-STRI
SIDNEY.
E O BONO P
THE MUTUAL TRADE PROTE
TION OF N. S.
J. HURST, Secret
Offices: 32 BRIDGE STREE
Established upon the most improv<
for the protection of Merchants i
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, u
the leading Mercantile communit
The following business is underta
or through the intervention of
licitor:—
The recovery of rents and debts :
otherwise, by written or personal a
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or ass;
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, a
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Registered Doc
searched.
The Certificates of fradulent or nnp
opposed in the interests of crec
Debts proved in insolvent estates,
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and mai
Searches and Private Inquiries mad
A Credit Guide issued periodical
Notices" sent to members when i
Assigned Estate supervised or liq
Searches or Inquiries made and ar
all kinds of Mortgages, Bills o
Liens, Protection Orders, &c.
Postages, Cash Outlay for Court '
accordingly.
Records Filed at the Offices of th
ceming all Registered Acts ex
United States, England, Scotlanc
Australian Colonies, New Zealand
N.B.—The facilities thus offered
public enable those who wish to
transactions to achieve both legal
tion by the powerful co-operation
upon mutual principles.
Membership for Inquiry Brand
annum. Membership for General
annum.
RELIABLE COUNTRY AGEN
JNCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIE 1 ]
In the event of loss of si<
MEMBE RS are entitled to receh
th the amount insurt
The Society also uses its influenc
suitable re-engagem<
For further particulars apply to
G. HORTON MOR;
Se
Weni
E
Applications for Agencief
Photographer
PARLOUR ST
The Really Popular (and cheap) P
805 GEORGE STI
Opposite the Railway Te
Public Companies
The meecantile bank of Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCOEPOEATED BY ACT OP PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £115,000
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITOES:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A. Wilson.
SECEETAEY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Georgo-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
AND COUNTY BANK (LIMITED).
Incorporated under “ Companies’ Act ” of 1874.
Authorised Capital, £500,000.
DIEECTOES:
Montague Levey, Esq., Chairman
'V. A. Broadribb, Esq., M.P.
Alexander Bowman, Esq., M.P.
Eobert Hudson, Esq.
J. Yelverton, Esq., J.P.
Frederick Cook, Esq., Chief Manager.
Head Office : Qeorge-street North, Sydney.
Frederick Cook, Chief Manager.
John Alexander Larnach, Accountant.
SOLICITOES :
Messrs. Macarthy, Robertson and Fisher.
This Bank will open for general Banking business on
or about Ist July next, by which time it is expected
the alterations to its premises now in active progress
will be completed.
Sydney, May 27, 1881.
T
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
BTEICTLT MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PEOPITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
T
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STEEET.
Capital. £(00,000. Subscribed. £44,049.
Directors :
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M Q., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M, Slattery, Esq., MP.
T. J. Chapman,
Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higgins,
a. Esq., J.P. E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq . M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FLEE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds'bf insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANT Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BEAT,
Secretary.
TNDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
J. BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 Tork-street.
WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
E
XCELSIOR LAND INVESTMENT AND
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company's Offices, 171 Tork-
street. WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
M
ELBOURNE CUP, 1881.
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OF PRIZES
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
IO.OOG SUBSCRIBERS AT Jg! EACH.
ABOUT 250 PRIZES.
Please add exchange to cheques; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June,SlBBl New Zealand.
WAUGH
unadulterated
BAK/NCPOWDER
TU
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEOEGE STEEET, HAYMAEKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
We beg to call special attention of the public to onr BLENDED TEAS : —Finest Family
Blend, 2/-; Finest Eoyal Blend, 2/6; Superior Queen's Blend, 8/-; Superior Empress Blend, 4/-.
Packed by us, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee of purity and weight. Sold in Jib and 21b
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b; also, catties, boxes, i-ohests, &o. SAMPLES of
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.—EEUßEN OLIVEE, Manager.
DAY IS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture l
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulbum, Mudgee*
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary n otwithstanding.
B. 0. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
_____
SOMETHING NEW UNDEE THE SUN.
The Universal Sew ng Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Eace. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
MEET TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
C4U.19
MANUFACTORY;
B ON-ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Besidences> Churches, Stores, &c.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This QA.S is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and'wood for the furnace ;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPAEATUS is used for lighting the Government Hallways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOE FULL PAETICULAES APPLY AT THE MANUFACTOEY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
ONDON MORTGAGE, LOAN, AND
I DISCOUNT BANK,
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James’
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms—UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bossiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OF SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui-
ties, Personal effects, &0.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Acceptances, &c., DIS-
COUNTED dally.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address. THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
ELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
This is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO ea ch,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
Wherever possible P.O. Order should be forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODORE BROWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z.
rji H 0 S. J. BOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSPOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BAT HURST-STREET, SYDNEY.
\T H. ARIEL L,
* • PROVISION MERCHANT, ,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-stbeet, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
E. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.


Business Annom
W.
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WAI
352 George-str
PIANOFORTES. PL
JUST RECEIVED. JU!
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUEOP
A splendid stock to at
EVEET EENOWNEI
AMERICAN OE
By the celebrated
W. BELL, A ]
Which gained first and
OVER ALL OT;
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTEENATIO
HARMONIC
BY
ALEXANDEE and other REN
in all the various
A FEW GOOD SECOND-
at low prices, now
W. H. PALING, agent for Erarc
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and H
fortes.
W. Bell, So Co.’s, Horace Watei
and Warren’s, and Smith and
352 GEOEGE S
Opposite Wynyard
Sydney.
THOMAS W
ENGINEER & IRON
MINING, TEAM, and R4TLWA'
FIRE
AND
BUEGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Works: SUSSEX STREET. &
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 2;
Wt CWHHMtBT OBSEfi
m
Tobacconist
JAMES
CELEBRATE!
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Euby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Lea
Best Imported Bn
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and I
159
PITT ST]
Next Post Offic
*
rQ
TIN TAG TOB^
None are genuine but the E
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or TANKE
DIXSON & so:
15 TO E K STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA ClGji
MILD, FRAGRANT, &
u.
Ch.ero.ists and Dr
ÜBL I C K
THE following Li
WATSON'S RENOWNED 1
MEDICINES,
bo well and favourably known to th
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ant
Watson’s (Vegetable) Woi
Watson's Gingerbread Wo:
Watson's Compound Chloi
Watson’s Strengthening E
Watson’s Australian Verm
Watson’s Excelsior Toothi
Watson’s Concentrated Gc
Elixir (a most valuabl
can be obtained, wholesale and r
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STRi
14 OXFORD STRI
Near Hyde Park C
(N.B. —The Tram-car stop
W. D. EAMES, Pi
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLED
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of 1
Societies of Victoria and Nev
W. D, E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded h
Irrespective of Club prescriptioi
has dispensed 34,000 original presc
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THI
Every prescription is CAREFU
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbei
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folk
E AMB S’S QUINI
Which improves the appetite a:
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGS ST:
For severe cases where the gasti
and when sickness and flatulen
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANT)
Which relieve the bowels gently, i
naturally healthy functions
organs.
pnipua i/_ net oiet
Chemists and Dr
T
AKE
NO MO
but try
EANDEESON
PODOPHYLLIN LOI
Do you SUFFEE from HEAI
Then try
PODOPHYI
Do you Complain of Indigesti
Take a few doses of
PODOrHYL
Do yon Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, ant
EANDEESC
Do yon constantly suffer from
If so rememh
PODOPHY]
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDK
Are any'of your children sick
can safely give chem one
for the small members of
TAKE WEI
__ Semember this, and alwayi
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pr
EDWAED EOW and (
45 and 47 George-st
T EOYAL LETTE:
B
The Greatesl
WONDEE OF THE
JOSEPHSON’£
AUSTEALI AN OINT
Guaranteed to 1
Free from all poisonous qnalitit
of vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Plant
in the Bush of New Sou
This Ointment is not a mere cal
public, nor does it require any puf
as it has been so well proved for th
that it is impossible that the publi<
long deceived. In fact, people are r
lous regarding its efficacy (never 1
article of the kind before which i
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the m
High and low, rich and poor, havt
flts from its use, and scarcely anj
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIA
is now the household word of the c<
The quick and instant relief from
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OF TP
which, taken altogether, prove the A
to be the Eighth Wonder of the W
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, e
hands and lips, bunions, soft corn
casualties attending the human fn
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIA]
the
WONDEE OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B 1
find immediate relief and be perfe
Josephsou’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External £
may be cured by using Josephson'
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Coi
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment F
Who would suffer from Burns an
can have immediate relief by ap]
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriat
tion when a remedy like Josei
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles w
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is
It stands unrivalled. The wond
effected, which is proved by the testir
of undoubted respectability, and v
communicated with, and the large t
demand, prove it to be still pre-emi
of the kind yet known. It is* of a
the natural extracts of the plants frc
and totally free frem any and all c
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S A
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storeke
and Is 6d each throughout the coloi
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWAED EOT
ENTEAL PHi
78 (Late 84) KING ST:
c
T\TOT)TI "XTCI TXT Cl
Jjl CLAEKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
G E 0 C E E S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
198 OXPOED STEEET
(Opposite Conrt-honse),
DARLINGHURST.
FDSAGASDGAS
POSTAGE STAMPS.
EON AND BRASS
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bols
Sheets, Blankets, Couni
Bolsters and Pillow
Mosquito Curtail
J. L AWL El
MANUFACTURER AND
ICTORIA YAENISI
ALEX. BOBTHW
OIL AND COLOR MEI
Importer of Paperhf
Oils, Colors, Yan
White Lead, Glass, I
Marble and Enamelled Slat<
Fenders, Tiles, and C
Room and Picture-Frame
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STRI
> DOTS! BOOTS! !
MAKE YOUE PUR 1
AT
TT TT T T. T» V 1
Fitted up with
608 George-stree


B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and ORANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
mrities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
Indigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, er the abuse of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, 4c.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous-
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, aud by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master-
piece—Man. Remember this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
PPROYED BY THE GOVERNOR.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I have to inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and the-
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the * Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform you that his Excellency
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very-
pleasant aperient.
" I am. Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“ Reginald Bloxsomk, P.S.
“Mr. W. G, Bladon.”
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
The Australian Churchman says :
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market."
Sole Proprietor, W. Q. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s, 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
A\4Y
N|ADE dm j
pL/\IN
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of aH kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and-
GENERAL HARDWARE.
- GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Ageuts for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
*
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
• Edinburgh Pale Ala.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
OUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
Have stood the test, o/P\J BLIC OPINION
for more than c
A QUARTER OF A CENTURY,
/ ><■/ arr still acknowledged. lo be Unequalled.
Ad mho ivear-shirts and '.value, qdmfort'are 1
respectfully solicited to patronize
i)Mh SMITH & MANNELL,
I /MW RH IR T MA K RR R A I-TORT R. R R
fiV SHIRT MAKERS & HOSIERS,
298 George Street,
ESTABLISHED 1844. SYDNEY.' V :
Try BU S H ELL
POE
SIGNS.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ADVANCE AUSTRALIA.
Special Notice to Heads of Families, Managers of Public Institutions, &c.
The Proprietors of THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, determined to keep
pace with the rapid advance now being made under the liberal policy of FREE TRADE for New
South Wales, have just imported from LONDON, VIENNA, and PARIS, to sell at pabis
prices !! TO SELL AT PARIS PRICES !! THE CHOICEST ASSORTMENT of Ladies’,
Gentlemen’s, and Children’s BOOTS AND SHOES ever yet placed before the Sydney public.
FIRST CONSIGNMENT NOW READY. REGULAR SUPPLY BY EVERY MAIL.
Come and see the newest style—the Parisian Model Button Boot.
Our large and increasing Wholesale Trade enables us to sell at a mere nominal profit.
FRANCE and GERMANY are competing fob oxjb patbonage. NOTE THE EFFECT; —
S UPERIOR QUALITY OF OUR GOODS,
And Enormous Redaction of Prices.
COME AND TAKE TOUR CHOICE FROM THE LEADING RIVAL MANUFACTURERS OF THE WORLD.
Latest French Invention, NEW POOT DEFENCE, for keeping the feet perfectly dry and
imparting artificial heat. A written guarantee given to each purchaser.
THE LARGEST STOCK OF COLONIAL BOOTS IN SYDNEY, MADE FROM
SUGGESTIONS OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS.
Economists are specially invited to test the value of their ready cash by a visit of inspection.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
SOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 600
GEORGE STREET.
10s 6d DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Foie’s Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s fid. Five cases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’ READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
332 ft 500 TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
GEORGE STREET, shrunk and well cut. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s fid to 30s,
ATT. GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD l?OR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
QNCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACT^§CAP.
Trade mark “ Arm and Dolly" on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
im
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
. HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. KEEP A CO.,
ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
THE EOTAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTRACTIVE PRICES.
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving fall information respecting economi-
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PURCHASERS
have evsry opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
LATH
W. B. CAMPBELL,
EOTAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 * 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Royal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clock for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
Gr
RE AT
JEWELLERY
SALE.
WATCHES, CLOCKS, AND JEWELLERY
At LESS than COST PRICE,
Owing to intended Extensive Alterations.
A. J. HUFTON,
636 George-street South
THE KOOKABURRA.
Whisky straight makes one go crooked.
There is a town in Texas called Hell. Hell on
earth.
All dinners are remembered according to their
desserts.
The height of fashion—The big view-impeding
bonnet in the stalls.
An epitaph for a faithful tram-conductor —He
took his last fare well.
It is only the fool who gets bucked off a donkey.
He descends from the ass.
“ Are you going fah ? ” “ No, not fah.” “ How
fah?” “ Only to the cah." “ Tah-tah."
The fashion editor of a country paper says that
bugs are still fashionable in beds and jewellery.
The high-heeled boot of the period.—New Maid:
“ Here, Missush, the shnob ’av amt home yer stilts.”
The small boy is tolerable only when he is sick,
and then his unnatural quiet is awful in its weirdness.
It is peculiar how sound a man sleeps when his
wife crawls over him on her way to the kitchen to make
a fire.
Shakespeare was married when he was 18, and
Brigham Toung when he was 18,19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24,
and so on.
Many a man after marriage wishes he had one-
tenth of the money he had fooled away on other girls,
to buy a perambulator with.
The big swell who, when hard np, pawns his
jewellery, has plenty of good things in store for him.
He only wants the money to get them out.
“ Death alone could separate them” is now,
when written on the tombstone of a married couple,
redfiered as “ Death alone could unite them,"
A centipede eleven inches long was recently
found in a hollow log at the Northern Territory.
Another inch, and they could have used him as a foot-
rule.
Ashmead-Bartlett, it is said, told the girl who
now threatens to sue him for breach of promise that he
couldn’t marry her as he was going to marry a lamp-
post.
It’s a toss up now which is the most pleasant
life, a Russian Czar’s or an Irish rent-collector’s. A
raffle for either situation would take a long time in
filling up.
Master : “ John ! John !I am sorry to see you
in this state again. Drink is your greatest enemy."
Man: “ Yesshir, but ainswee taught love ou’
enemiesh ?" 11 Yes, John, but not to swallow them.”
Joy in the house of Malone ! At Bathurst, on
the’,2Bth ult., Mrs. James Malone of a triplet—two boys
and one girl." And yet we squander thousands on as-
sisted immigration. More power to the " bould
Malones."
“How do you like my new clothes?” asked
Leander. “ Pretty well," replied Hero, doubtfully, and
then added, "But I think I should like yon better in a
walking-suit.” He sat wrapt in silent thought for about
five minutes, and then got np and walked slowly away
in the suit he had on.
For the cold weather, we strongly recommend
this verse of Mr. Swinburne’s poem—
“ Oh, love of my lover come to me.
And kiss with a passionate kiss
The lips of my love, and all through me
Thrill hot the staccato of .bliss."
Every night, about the time when church-
yards grow sleepy, a man, a boy, and a mare and a foal
pass through the Albnry toll-bar. Moloney—the Italian
toll impressario says: “De divil av it all is to know which
iz de boy, and which de man and he is iust as much
puzzled to know “ which iz de mare, an’ which de foal."
Better write to Darwin.
A critic dropped into a Parisian studio, stopped
before the portrait of a lady on the easel, and re-
marked : “It is very nicely painted, but why did you
take such an ugly model ?’’ “Itis my mother," calmly
replied the artist. “Ohl pardon a thousand times 1 ”
said the critic in confusion ; “You are right; I ought
to have perceived it; it resembles yon completely.”
“ When you rise in the morning,” said Sidney
Smith, “ resolve to make at least one fellow creature
happy that day. If yon live for forty years you will
have brightened for once at least the lives of 14,600 fel-
low beings.” And if Sidney stood a long beer for a fel-
low-being once every day it would cost exactly £6116s
Bd. We’d like to “ learn the luxury of doing good, but
we must wait till some influential person libels us."
A German sly grog-seller, who was recently con-
victed of the offence, offered the following forcible
reasons for not going to prison :—“ Chail! Go to ohail I
Me go to chail! But I con’f go I Dere’s my piziness—
my pakery. Who pakes my pread ven I aur gone ? ”
Then, casting his eyes in an appealing manner round
the court, he happened to espy the good-natured face of
a jolly fellow-countryman, who had no *’piziness," and,
turning to the magistrate, he ejaculated in an earnest
manner, “ Dere’s Chrlss Ellwaner I He’s god nodings to
do. Send him !’*
This is from an old number of the Burnett
S) Argus: —“Married, at Qayndah, on New Year’s
y, Patrick Flynn, of Connemarra, third son of
O’Brien Flynn, Esq., eldest son of Major Flynn, who
died fighting in the Indian service, and slightly con-
nected on the mother’s side with the late Duke of
Wellington, Lord Fitzmaurioe, and the Marquis of
Westminster, to Bridget Mullins, eldest daughter of
Michael O’Eooke Mullins, landed proprietor, and
descended from the nobility of England, and the Irish
aristocracy, and third son of the late General Magee,
who was killed at Waterloo, years ago, of Clogheen,
Tipperary."
The new great business centre at the head of
Darling Harbour appears to be much in want of fresh
outlets to the centre of the city. As already announced,
the Government have determined to take over the con-
trol of the Pyrmont Bridge, to ensure greatev shipping
facilities, and this step must soon be followed by a
move for greater facilities on land. Darling Harbour is
virtually shut out from the city, the only means of
communication being by a roundabout road from
Bathurst-street, and some narrow laneways from Hay.
street. Qoulburn-street is the only proper outlet from
this busy spot. Here is a wide roadway, running direct
from George-street, blocked just twenty-five yards from
the railway terminus at Darling Harbour ! An old mill,
owned by Mr. Sims, that ought long since to have
been razed to the ground, closes the street and blocks
communication. All the traffic of the locality may go
direct from George-street into Goulburn-street,
but it must stop a few yards from the wharf and take a
steep and circuitous route to its destination. The re-
moval of the mill, which, with adjacent two-room dwel-
lings, is not of much benefit to the neighbourhood,
would be a great public boon, and give an additional
impetus to the trade of this fast-extending business
centre. It is to be hoped, now that the Government
have at last taken the difficulties of the shipping in
hand, the improvement here suggested will likewise be
promptly effected.
Rather Embarrassing.
She was a very little girl.
And as I bent and kissed her,
** There, that is for yourself," I said,
** And this is for your sister."
Last night I called in friendly way;
Some gay girl-friends were there.
And laugh and jests went gaily round,
To banish weary care.
The little girl came romping in.
And unto me said she,
“ I dive that tiss to Sizzer Bell
’Oo left for her wiz me.
“ She tissed me lots o’ times, an’ said
When folkses ’ouldn’t see,
I might dive’m to ’ou—dust wait
’Till ’ou's alone wiz me! ”
I blushed, and so did Sister Bell,
The gay girl-friends, ah me ! ■
I wished the horrid, horrid things
A thousand miles at sea I


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Henry Labouchere says that his income from
Truth is now £5OOO.
Peter Cameron, one of the oldest settlers at
Xyttleton (N.Z.), is dead.
Mr. C. C. Eawlins claims Ned Kelly’s armour
on the ground that he took it from the outlaw.
Mr. A. De Mestre, of Shoalhaven, was thrown
from his horse the other night and broke his collar-
bone.
The Mayor of Gulgong is, it is said, about to
institute an action for libel against the People’s
Advocate.
J. M. Peebles is coming to Australia again—
under engagement to the Victorian Spiritualistic
Association.
Father O’Donnell has successfully treated
twenty cases of diphtheria at Wattle Flat. Flannels
are looking up.
W. C. Bennett, commissioner and engineer for
roads, sailed for England on Saturday. Domestic be-
reavement the cause.
Sub-inspector Babington, of Ballarat, one of the
best known and oldest of the Victorian police, died last
week, after a short illness.
The Hon. Geoffrey Eagar’s eldest son, manager of
the Bank of N.S.W., Cootamundra, has married Miss
Lillie White, of Tumberumba.
Mr. E. W. Pearson, agent and manager of the
Crossiey Telephene Company, is coming on to Austra-
lia from the Cape by next Orient boat.
Colonel Hassard, C. 8., who is in charge of King
Cetewayo, at Cape Town, writes “As a savage, he is a
fine, clever fellow. I admire him much.”
Mr. J. M. Garratt, formerly M.L. A. for Geelong,
ex-mayor, and many years resident in that town, died
there last week from consumption, at the ago of 53.
Thomas Bowles, lately editor of Vanity Fair,
aspires to Parliament. He proposes to woo one of the
London constituencies at the next general election.
Finucane, of the Brisbane Lands Office, has
been acting as locum tenens for Barron, Deputy Com-
missioner of Police in Queensland, since the latter has
been suspended.
An English paper says that the inventor of
zoedone has made £20,000 at one pop. However, it
would have much more clearly conveyed the position
had the English paper said that the lucky man had
made his money, not as the inventor of the harmless
beverage in question, but as the advertiser of it.
Judge Hackett, of Yic-
toria, is very seriously ill.
The members of the
Sydney Rowing Club have
testimonialised their secre-
tary, Mr. C, B. Deloitte.
Waltham gold ticker, in-
scribed.
Mr. Henry Small, 17
years connected with the
Sydney Exchange, has been
presented with a silver
watch, gold chain, and
purse of sovereigns, by
members.
The new Attorney-
General of Western Aus-
tralia, the Hon. C. A.
Onslow, is an accomplished
vocalist, and created quite
a furore at Perth by recent
performances on the con-
cert-stage.
Mr. Follett Milford,
son of Mr. Henry Milford,
solicitor, of Rockhamp-
ton, and grandson of His
Honor Mr. Justice Mil-
ford, has been admit-
ted to the Queensland
bar.
Money-lenders are not
always Shylocks. In the
matter of the sequestration
of Mr. Marcus Clarke’s
estate by Mr. Aaron Wax-
man, Mr. Waxman swore
that he had lent Mr.
Clarke £4OO for 12 months
without interest.
Mr. Gladstone long
maintained an eloquent
silence concerning the
death of his great rival,
Earl Beaconsfield (whose
funeral, ic will be remem-
bered, he did not attend),
and “damned him with
faint praise” at the Aca-
demy dinner.
It is a curious fact
that the Governor of
Western Australia the
other day replied through
the columns of the press
to certain charges made
against his administration
of public affairs. The
editor of the journal with
which he has fallen out is
chairman of committees.
It s the intention of Mr. John Henniker Heaton
to fro straight for an Irish constituency, in the Home
Rule interest. Nobody need be surprised should the
■wily one succeed.
Mr. John Hurley, who ia said to have satisfac-
torily negotiated for the formation of a company to
-work the Bnrram coal deposits, is now (says a Northern
paper) on his way back to the colony.
Mr. John Hawdon, long and intimately con-
nected with the settlement of the Moruya district,
died last Sunday, at his late residence, Kylapark,
having nearly completed his 80th year.
“ Old Margaret,” the last remaining representa-
tive of the Lake Macquarie aboriginals, is in a very
feeble state—so much so that she was this year unable
to travel into Newcastle for her yearly blanket dole.
Mr. William M‘Leod, prospector of the Palmer
and Hodgkinson, has arrived at Gilberton for the pur-
pose of taking up a silver lode. He was on the field 12
years ago, and knows of several silver deposits there.
Money-lenders are not always Shylocks. In the
matter of the sequestration of Mr. Marcus Clarke’s
estate by Mr. Aaron Waiman, Mr. Wurman swore that
he had lent Mr. Clarke £lOO for 12 months without
interest.
A new editor of Victorian Men or the Time
is coming out. A number of “the most remarkable
men ’’ didn’t figure in the former edition, but every-
one who has the slightest claim to distinction will have
a show this time.
That well-known and clever medico, Dr. Joseph
Little, formerly of Melbourne, and more recently of
Charters Towers, is in the Cotopaxi. He was married
during his stay in England, and intends settling on the
Towers once more.
The lady to whom Captain Garrard, of the
Tararna, was engaged, is a Miss Buckhurst, Emerald
Hill, Melbourne. The shock caused her a serious ill-
ness, and for some time she remained in a totally
unconscious state.
In the Victorian Assembly the other night, L.
L. Smith likened Mr. Berry to the yeast plant, which,
placed in a saccharine solution, never rested until it
had absorbed the whole of the sugar within its reach,
leaving only acid as a resultant.
The Prince of Wales can say a good thing when
he likes. Some time since, he was crossing the Channel
in company with Mr. Pigott. The Prince didn’t care
for the rolling of the vessel, and remarked to the friend
of Regnier, “This is a nasty passage, isn’t it ?” “ Oh,
I don’t think anything of it,” was the reply. “ No,
you wouldn’t, of course,” said the Prince; “as
Examiner of Plays, you must.be getting used to nasty
passages.’*
Davidson, the Queensland Deputy Surveyor-
General, has been grouted a year’s leave. Bennett, the
Chief Draftsman, expected to be Acting-Deputy, but
Tally, Under-Secretary, who brooks no rival near his
throne, put Scarr, Senior Draftsman, into Davidson’s
chair.
Mr. John Lecky Phelps, a very old colonist of
N.S.W.,who, with his brother Joseph, owned Albermarle
Station, Darling River, died on 7th May, at Florence,
Italy. Some years ago Mr. Phelps went home to reside
on his Irish property. Water Park, Castle Connell,
Limerick.
The story comes to us from Wellington,N.Z., that
a certain gentleman nearly poisoned himself the other
day. He wanted his “ morning.” but by mistake swal-
lowed a nobbier of choral. The nearest chemist pre-
scribed soap, and the honorable patient, who is now a
teetotaller, recovered.
Frank Ives Scudamore, C. 8., the quondam bril-
liant Second Secretary of the British Post Office, and
until recently head of the Turkish postal department,
is now engaged on the London press. His verse in the
Whitehall Eeview entitled “ Horace in Modem
Dress ”—is worth reading.
Among the most recent of London fashionable
weddings were those of Miss Bischoffsheim and Earl
Desart, Miss Georges and Captain Egerton (brother of
the Earl of Ellesmere), and Miss Maynard, the cele-
brated heiress and beauty and Lord Brooke, heir to
the historic earldom of Warwick.
Mr. MTlwraith, the Queensland Premier, was
banqueted on his arrival at Cooktown by the R.M.S.
Almora. Judging from the speeches, which for the
most part had reference to dredges, &0., the Cooktown
people must keenly appreciate Pope’s proverb concern-
ing the shortest way to a man’s heart.
Mr. J. M. James, F.G.S., M.1.C.E., is going in
for ostrich-farming, and has a dozen birds on his estate
—five and a half miles from Sydney. He writes to a
Victorian paper stating that it is his intention to form
a company to take over the concern. The climate of
N.S.W., he says, suits the birds admirably.
Lord Clanwilliam has informed the Mayor of
Ballarat that it is contrary to his instructions for the
Princes to receive addresses. This is calculated com-
pletely to extinguish the Mayor—who, by the way, is
identical with the dignitary who, the other day, fined a
boy a ‘bob” for calling a policeman a “ bobby."
Mr. J. N. Tooth, of Yenda Station, Burnett
River, Q., is dead. The deceased gentleman was a
brother of Mr. N. E. N. Tooth, Mayor of Maryborough,
and a son of the late Mr. John Tooth, of Sydney. His
name had been for many years intimately associated
with nearly every public institution connected with the
welfare ef the Burnett district,and he was a most popular
man. He was 41 years of age, and had only been
married about two years.
One of the few remaining survivors of the ill-
fated H.M.S. Orpheus, which foundered at the Manakau
in 1863, has died in the Auckland Hospital. His name
was George Wilson, and he had suffered from heart
disease for a long time. He had been an inmate for the
last four years. It is said there is now only one of the
Orpheus survivors alive.
Recently the Lands Department lost the services
of Mr. Ollivier, who had asked that his salary of £250
should be raised to £3OO. As soon as Mr. Ollivier left
the office his place in this “ economical" department
was, we are told, taken by two officers whose aggregate
salaries came to nearly £6OO. Mr. Ollivier is now in
private business in Sydney.
Mr. Radford, second clerk in the Q. Assembly,
has been appointed Clerk of Parliaments, vice H. B. Fitz,
deceased. Sir Joshua Bell, with whom, as President of
the Council, the nomination properly lay, recommended
the Hon. Holmes A’Court, Assistant Clerk to the
Council, but the Government refused to accept the
nomination. Mr. Radford has been far longer con-
nected with the Parliament than Mr. A’Conrt, although
not an Earl’s son. Sir Arthur is right this time.
In Adelaide there is a German Minister of the
Crown who owns a German paper, which glories in
printing articles insulting to the English nation.
Fancy an Englishman in Bismarck’s Ministry “ wiring
into" the Teutons. But the S.A. Cabinet is a very
mixed one. The Premier is a Welshman, the Commis-
sioners of Public Works and Lands are Cockneys, the
Treasurer a native, the Education man a Sohleswig-
something-or-other, and the Attorney-General—well,
ill-natured people say he’s a—Solomon.
Mr. Bradlaugh’s grammar is sometimes very
shaky. In a letter addressed by him to Sir Stafford
Northcote, and printed in the Times, occurs this sen-
tence “ The pamphlets bearing the name of Henry
Yarley”—(dear old Henry, how we long to see you
again !) —“ circulated to members of the House of Com-
mons, contain many misstatements of my views, attri-
bute to me in some instances language I have never
used, and, when dealing with any words of mine, nearly
always perverts and separates such words from the
qualifying context.”
Mr. James Gorman, the Victoria Cross man
who has just been appointed to the charge of Spectacle
Island Magazine, gained his decoration at the battle of
Inkermann, in the right Lancaster battery. He was
one of five men (two of them were killed) who defended
the wounded, and, making use of rifles which the latter
loaded for them as they lav on the ground, repelled the
attack on the battery. Mr. Gorman also served with
distinction in China, and left the service in Australia
in 1859. For the last 14 years ho has held the
appointment of schoolmaster on board the training
ship Vernon.
The author of the letter signed Jumus, pub-
lished in the Brisbane Telegraph, and which is the
occasion of Bnzacott, ex-Postmaster-General, and now
editor of the Courier, sueing the Telegraph for
£2OOO, is believed to be an Ishmaelitish mem-
ber of the Upper House in Queensland. And, by
the way, it is reported that on an action being brought
the other day against a certain Northern paper, the
editor threatened to give up the name of the distin-
guished writer, but was satisfied to accept the indemnity
from him instead. There has been a howling political
row over the Telegraph affair behind the scenes.
Lord Shrewsbury, who ran away with Mrs.
Miller Mundy, the wife of Mr. Miller Mundy, of Ship-
ley, Derbyshire, is not yet 21 years of age. He is
Premier Earl of England, and Hereditary Grand Senes-
chal of Ireland, and is described as having been
religiously and devoutly brought up by an excellent
mother. His inamorata, who has for eight years been
the wife of a well-known country gentleman, is known
as one of the very pretty women who have most at-
tracted attention in London. She left behind her two
letters —one for her husband, and another for a friend.
It is said that when the lady’s relatives caught the pair
at Strasburg, one of them beat the Earl till he was
black and blue; but this is not true.
Morpeth, one of the first-established of N.S.W.
inland towns, from which the names of Portus and
Close are inseparable, has at least fifteen people over
80 years of age, and not less than thirty over 70. One
venerable old fellow, known locally as “ Cookie,”
though 93, is as lively as a sparrow. He reads at dusk
without the aid of spectacles. He keeps his spirits up
by pouring spirits down —as he takes twice daily a glass
of over-proof rum, for which, to ensure the pure
article, he pays instead of the ruling 3d. An enter-
prising undertaker in Maitland made friends with old
Cookie a quarter of a century ago with a view to carry-
ing out the “ last sad offices,” &c. That undertaker has
now been in heaven fifteen years. Some time ago a
temperance deputation waited on Cookie by way of
joke, asking him to join the band. The old man went
for his revolver.
Sir Arthur Gordon’s exalted notions respecting
the dignity of his office are by no means of recent
growth. When he was in the West Indies he attempted
to enforce the rule that when he entered a room all the
ladies should stand, and not re-seat themselves until he
had himself sat down. His reason was that, as he repre-
sented the Queen, the same respect should be shown
to him as to her Majesty. By the way, we learn that
Sir Arthur’s magnificent appearance when opening Par-
liament at Wellington astonished the spectators. The
Commons stood aghast at the gorgeousness of attire
and stately strut of his Excellency, who wore a Wind-
sor uniform and blue and crimson mantle of St. Michael
and St. George. His son, dressed to match the robe,
acted as train-bearer. The get-up has never been ap-
proached by any previous governor. Many people say
they never saw such gorgeousness since the appearance
of George Rignold as Henry V , and a theatrical caterer
in the town would give a good deal to get Sir Arthur
Gordon to do a starring tour of the colony, if only for
the wardrobe.
Oscar and Willie Wilde, two London poetasters,
are the originals of Postlethwaite and Maudle. These
gentlemen, by a little cheap eccentricity in the matter
of shirt-collars, back hair, and affected verbiage, have
managed to secure a highly prized notoriety. The
father of the Wilde Brothers was an eminent surgeon,
and their mother, over the noin, de plume “ Speranza,”
wrote many stirring lyrics of a distinctly national
character —compositions which for force and lucidity
contrast favourably with the vapid inanities which,
under the name of poetry, are contributed by her sons
to certain of the society journals. The chief claim of
the Wildes, however, to public attention is not what
they write themselves, but what is written about them.
Their style, as may be expected, both in verse and
prose —both of which they write in Vanity Fair and
the Whitehall Review— is “quite too consummately
utter.”
Munson, the engine-driver, is to the Northern
line what Sixsmith, who drove the first locomotive in
Australia, is to the Southern and Western railways.
Munson has never had a collision, except one, and that
was with his stoker. Munson arrived one morning at
his engine and found no stoker —no fire alight, no pre-
paration to start. He, having got everything ready,
left for Maitland with the train—doing double duties
for the nonce. Returning he found the stoker, a
Yankee, in a most excited and nervous state, and pro-
fuse with apologies. “ Look here,” he said to the
driver, “ there’s no tarnation mistake about that
bull of the Bishop’s. Coming straight here the darned
rascal drove me right up a tree and pinned me thar for
two hours. Darned if ever I thought I could climb.
Guess I'll come round the road next time." Munson
excused him, but now adds significantly that the Yankee
left the church to which the bull belonged and went
over to the Wesleyans.
Henry Broadhurst, M.P., was a working stone-
mason in London seven years ago. Now he represents
in Parliament one of the largest constituencies in the
kingdom. Speaking at the Engineers’ Festival at
Woolwich the other day, he said that although he had
entered the House of Commons without wealth, in-
fluence, or friends, he had been most courteously re-
ceived and generously treated, even by his political
opponents. In that House, he declared, if the
humblest member had anything to say worth
listening to, he was sure of an attentive hearing,
and in all rights and privileges he was the equal
of the noblest and richest in the Assembly. This
reminds us that when Mr. Ninian Melville, M.L.A.,
himself a hard-working man, went up with a deputation
to one of the public offices, the other day, he met Mr.
Garrard, MI.A. for Balmain, in his working clothes,
mending the lift. This is as it should be. Men who
aren’t ashamed of their connexion with the sons of toil,
ought to be selected by the latter to represent them m
Parliament. We are glad to see the theory that
broadcloth and legislative honours are inseparable is
being exploded.
Mr. Pierre Lorillard, whose Iroquois won the
English Derby, is a member of the great firm of J., and
P. Lorillard, tobacco manufacturers and
represented in this city by Mr. Shaw. Mr. Lorillard
has always displayed a great for mcmg. has been a
very successful sportsman in the United States, and has
spent enormous sums of money on his s^
however, with the winner of the Grand Pr' x - Mr.
James B. Keene, whose Foxhall pulled off this much-
coveted prize, is only a rece-t addition to the sportmg
community. Ten years ago this gentleman was not
worth money enough to pay his board *
economic residence of which he was then a paceful
boarder. There are hundreds of ’Fnscans who will tell
you that they remember very vividly when Jim
Keene” was “walking on the uppers of his boots,
which, in more polite parlance, simply means that
from sheer economy Mr. Keene did not.cast P®
boots when they showed signs of that decay which
makes room for another pair, but waited until the sole
utterly refused to go in company .with the rest of the
boot before he parted company with them. This Mr.
Keene is a stock-broker by profession, and from the
shrewdness which characterises his larger operations
has been called the “ Jay Gould ”of the far West. He
made the nucleus of his great fortune, which is now
supposed to be £2,000.000, in mining stocks in California.
By the way, Mr. Lorillard achieved another success
before winning the Derby by carrying off the New-
market International Handicap, a mile-and-a-quarter,
with his horse Mistake.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
The Eiver Herbert has been re-named the
Georgina, by order of the Queensland Government.
Why, nobody knows at present.
Meeting at Haymarket on Saturday declared
the Government culpable for neglect of precautions
against the introduction by Chinese of small-pox.
The Geelong Advertiser has a leader hint-
ing that one of the Ferret's officers, who is missing,
and is alleged to have been left at the Cape, was
murdered.
Inspector Montfort’s plan of dealing with the
North-Eastern district of Victoria is to send out small
parties of young constables “to make themselves
thoroughly acquainted with the district and its mhabi-
tants.” Taranta-ra! Taran-ta-ra
Snow fell at Stannifer
on Bth inst., the third time
in ten years.
The laying of the
pipes having been com-
pleted, water from Tinana
Creek is now available at
Maryborough (Q). The
opening of the water supply
and of the Maryborough-
Gympie railway will be cele-
brated contemporaneously.
Two Kanakas—who,
in their own country, were
missionaries—have a splen-
did fruit garden four miles
from Townsville.
At the Margaret pros-
pecting claim. Port Dar-
win, a hand-crushing of
half a ton of stone yielded
5310 z. of gold.
A new paper for Par-
ramatta. The Cumberland
Independent will make its
first appearance early in
July.
Mr. William Hann, of
Maryvale, has shipped a
couple of fat cows for Eng-
land in order to test the
English market with
Queensland live stock.
Nearly 300 Hell’a-
Gate (Palmer) blacks
demonstrated against a
Springs settlement, the
other day, and speared a
bullock, but were eventu-
ally driven back by the
white settlers.
Mr. Eichhorn, of the
Endeavour (N.Q.) River,
has produced a splendid
sample of mountain rice on
his selection. From an
acre he cleaned 55 bushels,
but owing to the want of
proper appliances the pro-
cess was tedious and
damaging to the grain.
At Cooktown, the
other day, 40 or 50 dogs
baited a 10ft alligator,
which, however, waddled
to the water, little regard-
ing the clamour of his as-
sailants, who never came
within reach of his ponder-
ous jaws.
Patrick Cody, miner, of Jembaicumbene, while
washing np, found a diamond which he believesio be of
very great value. He is coming to Sydney with hia
treasure. Probably he doesn’t know that Butters has
left.
A box, almost of solid gold, from Hall’s claim
(Evening Old Reef), Gympie, has been picked. From
the Golden Crown 300 oz. were obtained at one shot. A
shot in No. 1 North Phoenix also exposed to view a
“ jeweller’s shop.”
William Lee, the leader of the Bargo Brush
ruffians, was, a few hours after his release from Dar-
linghnrst, where he had been confined 204 years, brought
up for attempted burglary. A man named Baxter,
arrested with him, had become acquainted with him in
gaol.
The Townsville Herald points out that a
mass of gold worth £75,000, such as was brought down
by last Charters Towers escort, offers a powerful tempta-
tion to a few determined men to do a little bushrang-
ing No such amount ought ever be allowed to accu-
mulate.
Mr. Rutherford, chemist, who jumped the School
of Arts site at Herberton, says he is about to commence
actions against the chairman of the meeting and the
proposers and seconders of the resolutions in pursuance
of which his building was pulled down. The debris of
the shop has been found handy for fire-wood.
The agricultural interest all over the valley of
the Hunter was never so prosperous as now. The floods
which, by the way, have the same effect as the periodic
overflow of the Nile, have been rare during the last 12
years, and when they did occur the farmers had pro-
vided against disaster by erecting their houses and farm
buildings clear of the mark of the highest water.
The niggers have made a raid on Shepherd’s
Station, 30 miles from Maytown, and speared some
cattle. It took three inspectors to command the ten
troopers who went on a blanket-distributing expedition
recently in the launch Spitfire. The native troopers
landed several times, but only saw'wild blacks—failed to
reach them. No blankets or trinkets were given out.
How strangely lives are lost or saved by fate.
The other day. on the Queensland border, Messrs. Bush
and Manning lost their way, and came across an unfor-
tunate who was almost dead of ague and hunger, and
had been five days without food. They made him some
tea, gave him all their rations, and sent a vehicle for
him. His life was saved by their missing their track.
At last the Western Australian passport system
is likely to be abrogated. Mr. Crowther, M.L.C., of
Perth, the other day had an interview with Mr. Berry
on the subject, and said he needed no further argument
in favour of the withdrawal of the system than that of
his being compelled to carry a passport, else the P. and
BY APPOINTMENT, SUCCESSOR TO THE KIAMA GHOST.


LUXURIES WITHIN THE RJ
When you ask a friend to visit you the first impression he reoei
is one of comfort, abundance, and even luxury. But the i
impression is produced is almost incredible. The first thing
FIBRE MAT lor which you paid 2s. Passing on, the next thii
3a, 3d. per square yard, or a FLOORCLOTH which only costs
his HAT (a STIFF FELT it may be at 4s. lid., or a SILK
putting his 7s 6d. SILK UMBRELLA on one side, he makes
(price 4s. 3d.) into the Drawing Room. Here a rich BRUSSEL
like all the foregoing, at
ANTHONY HORDER
PALACE EMPOF
HAYMARKET (ONI
The cost of this was 2s. Bd. per yard, and there is also a HEAR
such a room are amply supplied from the same source. T 1
STOOLS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, and CUSHIONS beautiful
that the CANVAS and WOOL came from
ANTHONY HORDERN ,
whose prices are below those of the Wholesale Houses.
As the morning is the time he arrives, the hostess (in a d
or FRENCH CASHMERE, procured at the
PALACE EMPO
and made of the very newest shads of colour) leads bim into th
TAPESTRY, at Is. lid per yard, and his eyes alight upon the
cost about half what they would anywhere else, surmounted by
costing only ss. 9d. each, with BRACKETS to match at a Hmn.ll
tastefully executed OLEOGRAPHS and ENGRAVINGS, gla
the trifling expenditure at which these additions are made he
this apartment; he walks across a CHINA MATTING 36 in
Dining Room, where the dazzling magnificence, combined w
attire (which latter has now ramified into a thousand novelties—
times) well nigh eclipse the more sombre requisites of every <
at Is. per dozen; TABLE DAMASK for extension at Is. 4<
ordinary sized table, at prices varying from ss. 6d. to 225. 6
Antimacassars, all hand made, at from Is. each; and the Curl
per pair, but the Applique are 15s. On retiring to rest he finds
AJN THONY HORDERN
supplied the SHEETS, the BLANKETS, the QUILT (one of
SILK DOWN—delightfully soft, light, and warm), the Grockei
Fancy Soap, of which they have a pleasing variety. In fac
QTITV TV I TT TTI rt w, AW - J • • 1
SINGER'S SEWING
THE
INGER MANUPACTUR
Have opened a De]
8
SYDNEY, AT No. .
harbour
DA
STB
SINGER’S SEWING
lllustrated Price List sei
SINGER’S SEWING
BEST TERMS TO WHOL]
8
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of ne
SINGER’S, THE BEST J
Have received 160 First I
IN GEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
SINGER’S, BEST FOR
SINGER'S MEDIUM MAC!
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. i
INGERS THE BEST
See the New No. 4 M
8
8
8
8
8
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
THE BEST FOE
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
INGER’S SEWING
HAND OB TREAI
INQER’S, The BEST. Th<
MACHINE—Light to Work,
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6
8
INGER’S, THE BEST
LEABN. New Improvement
8
INGER’S SEWING
lnstrnction Free to all
SINGER’S, THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and hi
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
SINGER’S THE BEST and 1
Will last a lifetime in co
SINGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TI
SINGER MANUPACTUEI
No, 1 DARLING STORES, Hai
8
have
INGEE’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Hayma:
been appointed agents fc
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for ca
SINGER’S SEWING M
SINGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
Remember, there is <
GER MACHINE. See th
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—I
applies to the Genuine Mac!
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES—B
Castirun imitations. Onh
sold at Turner and Co.'s.
SINGER S SEWING MACH]
ments with the Singer C
SINGER’S SEWING MAC
cent, discount for cash, or on
- Q SIDNEY From TURNBE
[ KJ GEORGE STREET, opposite
INGER’S SEWING MACHI
but 160 FIRST PBI
AWA]
SILVER
AT P
ro
TT I*'
DINNER WINES
SHIRAZ Fruity 1
MADEIRA J wines )
Dry |
RIESLING j Wine8 )
.10/- per dozen.
w-
21/-
" G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
-* Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
AWABDE
SEVEN PHI
SYDNE1
INTERNATIO
See., &a.
Michael Fitzpatrick.—Last heard of at
Liverpool Station, who lost part of his arm in
service on the Government Railways, your sister Mary
is very anxious to hear from you. Send address to this
office.
fJIHE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY.
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.
Forty years’ testimony for cure
OP INDIGESTION, by
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS.
" This is to certify that I have been for forty years
suffering from Indigestion. In fact, so bad that the
bowels refused working.
“ I have much pleasure in stating that, since I have
taken the Indigestion Pills, I am quite cured of the
complaint, and can safely recommend them to anyone
suffering from the same malady.
“ P. M'Carboll,
“ 209 Parramatta-street, Sydney.
“ Nov. 21, 1879.”
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS
are sold in boxes. Is. 6d., 35., and Is. 6d. each, by most
medicine vendors, and by SIMS & P ARKES, Herbalists,
240 George-street.
Gooch and Roberts,
(Prom London an late with J. Campbell,)
HAIRDRESSERS AND WIGMAKERS,
Importers and Manufacturers of Human Hair.
21 HUNTER STREET,
BETWEEN GEORGE AND PITT STREETS,
SYDNEY.
CAUTION. —In our style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that onr children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from ns by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boscliee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses. For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d. ;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents; ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
QREAT CASH CLEARANCE SALE OE
BOOKS, FANCY GOODS, and STATIONERY.
REBUILDING OF PREMISES,
16 and 18 HUNTER STEET.
The present buildings being not large enough for the
rapidly increasing business.
Messes. Turner and Henderson,
have made arrangements to rebuild (with great
additions) and to save expense of remoyal of stock, they
offer the Whole of their Fine Stock of Books, Station-
ery, and Fancy Goods to the Public at VERY LITTLE
OVER COST PRICE, and in some cases UNDER
TURNER and HENDERSON,
16 and 18 HUNTER STREET.
RINGBARKING ON RUNS.
WHEREAS it is alleged that certain holders
of Pastoral Leases to whom permission to
ringbark has been granted, are ringbarking trees of
a description excepted from such permission or outside
tbe limits to which such permission applies, and that
other holders of Pastoral Leases, to whom no such
permission has been granted, are ringbarking trees
upon their respective runs, it is hereby notified that,
unless snch holders of Pastoral Leases desist from such
ringbarking, proceedings will be at once taken against
them.
(Sigd.) E. A. BAKER,
Minister for Mines.
Sydney, June 2nd, 1881.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 14th June, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOB GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
THE Lessee of the undermentioned Gold-mining
Lease is hereby called npon to show cause,
within thirty days from this date, why the Lease
should not be cancelled, for non-observance of the
conditions thereby imposed.
E. A. BAKER.
Peed and Uralla and Hunter and Macleat Minins
Districts.
No. 87-50; Edward Bridge (one of the lessees),
ortion No., 88 oi; county of Gloucester, parish of
lindera; 3 acres. Application No., Copeland 83.
O. Company would have refused to carry him to
Victoria.
Sydney declared an infected port by Queensland.
Victoria, and New Zealand.
Great hopes are now entertained that gold will
be struck in deep ground at the Cape Eiver.
John Landrigan and Charles Dyball run 150
yards at Taree, for £5O, in about a week hence.
Portentiona for the kettlera. The Crown has
sept for the depositions in a tin kettlingcase which was
tried in Tinonee some time back and dismissed.
Vibert, the Sandhurst postmaster, charged with
stealing money from the post office, has been acquitted.
He was defended by Mr. Purves, who skilfully cross-
examined the witnesses for the prosecution, and made
a brilliant speech.
A suit, at the' instance of the Trustees of the
marriage settlement of Captain and Mrs. Sydney
Edward Underwood, has been commenced in the
Equity Court against a well-known member of the
Upper House. A large sum of money depends upon
the issue.
H.M.S. Cormorant, Captain Bruce, has visited
the Solomons, and captured and executed the leader
of Lieut. Bower and crew of the Sandfly, The son of
the chief is being kept as a hostage for three of the
murderers, who at latest dates had not been caught.
Among other articles recovered are Lieut. Bower’s
watch and his skull, which the bloodthirsty blacks had
kept as trophies.
A Cobar “ beak,” one of the great unpaid, the
other day sentenced a man to three months’ imprison-
ment, without the option of a fine, for getting drunk.
The offender had just come in from a station, bringing
his wife and child with him. The wife was also sent to
gaol for two months, for resenting the J.P.'s harshness.
This little affair requires attention at the bands of the
Crown Law officers.
Near Seymour, Yic., a human skeleton has been
found standing upright in a hollow tree, 15 feet from
the ground. Evidently the body got there years ago,
and remained hidden until the wind smashed off a limb
and exposed the bones. It might have been a kind of
possum-hunting Qinevra. Another queer discovery is
that made near Ararat of a man of 30, who has been
living in a cave for some months.
Mr. William Fairfax, a gentleman well known
and highly esteemed by all old pressmen in the colonies,
and by a large circle of friends, died at St. Leonards,
North Shore, on tno 16th instant. The deceased gentle-
man arrived in Victoria in 1852, and shortly afterwards
became managing in the firm of Wilson, Mac-
kinnon, and Fairfax. This business having changed
hands, Mr. Fairfax pursued his profession in Queens-
land, again in Victoria, and more recently in Sydney,
gaining, throughout the vicissitudes of his career,
the esteem of all with whom he had relations. Shortly
before his death Mr. Fairfax had purchased the St.
Leonard’s Recorder, which will be now conducted by his
sons. Forty years ago Mr. Fairfax was apprenticed to
Reading and Co,, who had an| office on the ground
where The Bulletin office now stands.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Gold discovered in Hungary.
Algerian insurrection growing.
Hanlan getting up a big regatta at Toronto.
Trouble with workmen on the Panama Canal.
Belgian ironmasters going to “ drum” Austra-
lia.
Trickett upset his boat, and nearly drowned, at
Saratoga, U.S.
Another mine opened at St. Petersburg. A rush
(to Siberia) expected.
Dr. M'Cabe, R.C. Archbishop of Dublin, coun-
sels political moderation.
Big fight between French and Italians in Mar-
seilles streets. Several killed.
Torpedo explosion on board H.M.S. Monarch.
One officer and several men killed.
_ Conviction of Herr Most, for advocating tyran-
nicide, confirmed by the Privy Council.
Good harvests expected in Great Britain and
France. In the United States, not good.
Latest accounts state that the Italian residents
f Marseilles are now subjected to many insults.
Bulgarian Liberals complain that their Russian
ruler is a despot. They have appealed to Mr. Gladstone.
Ho! hoi
Large bodies of soldiers and constabulary are
employed in preventing the Irish from rolling up at
evictions and forced sales.
British Government have complained to the
United States that Fenian organisation is principally
directed from American cities.
The first clause of the Irish Land Bill, authoriz-
ing tenants to sell their holdings, subject to certain
regulations, passed through committee in the Commons
on the 17th.
The Pall Mall Gazette thinks that the Vic-
torian Eeform Bill won’t avert deadlocks. The
Spectator thinks it will, speaking generally, but be-
lieves that when the Chambers do quarrel the trouble
will be more serious than ever.
French troops returned from Tunis hissed by
Italian Club, when marching through Marseilles. Moo
resented the insult, and threatened to pull down Italian
escutcheon from club-front. Prefect of the city arrived
and protested, but Deputy-Mayor took part with the
mob, and himself tore down the symbol.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“C.J.C.”: As you seem deeply interested in
The Bulletin, we’ll tell you that the reason the head*
ing “ From the Shoulder ” was changed was that some
people might think the articles didn’t come from the
brain “T. W.G. F.”: Please call at this office
“F. Under the circumstances we must decline
to say anything more about the matter unless you
call on us Just a little too frisky
for us “Bush Eat”: Must decline “G.V.E.”:
Thanks “T.E.M.”: Thanks “Oportet Vivere”:
An old joke, isn’t it P “ Magpie Of no earthly im-
portance to anyone, so far as we can see. Send ns
something of general interest “J. W. T.”:
Good heavens ! what’s it aJI about ? “ T.N.”:
Eeceived; thanks ; would like to hear from you occa-
sionally “ 0.1. C.”: After reading it attentively we
haven’t the slightest idea what it means “First
Cigar” : There’s ho fun in it, and we haven’t time just
now to tack a joke on. Try again “Joker": You
must find a better man than he. The quantity named
is a mere fleabite “ A Barrister —suggestion for
cartoon”: Thanks; scarcely consistent with discretion
under existing circumstances. We shall be glad to
hear from you again “ Anon” : Thanks for the in-
formation. The first item we will use, probably next
week. As to the latter, everybody from Cape York to
Cape Otway knows all about the prominent individual
referred to. The only way in which the matter in
question could possibly be touched was that adopted
by us “Nick-nacks”: Next issue “Walk over
Crossing”: Eeceived “Tram Magnate”: Next
week “ Grafton correspondent ”: Much obliged ;
hut too late for this issue “ Keepit *’: Will keep it
until next issue “ Waxey”: Will make correction.
“Subscriber” (Adelong) : Hardly in good form
“Badger”: Will consider “Eainbow”: Held over.
“Yass”: Crowded out "W.BL.": Very well.
“ S.Y.E.”: Will look into the matter.
Booth, who in a prize fight managed to kill his
antagonist, Eillan, has been committed for trial for
murder 1 They don’t give much encouragement in this
country to the good old sperts of our forefathers.
It is suggested that, as the exportation of frozen
meat from Australia appears to be so great a success,
frozen delicacies, such as Torbay soles, Severn or Spey
salmon, or whitebait, should be brought out for the use
of antipodean Amphitryons.


JOHNSTOI
SEWING MACHII
HAYMARKE
gINGER’S SEWING
JOHNSTON’S I
HAYMARK]
QINGEE’S sewing
T
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2e
JOHNSTC
HE LIGHT RUNNINC
2s 6d per week, i
JOHNSTON'S, HAIM
gINGER’S SEWING
2s 6d per week, s
JOHNSTON’S 0
HAYMARKE"
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, wit
tacking (or basting), without the v
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells; wil
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, ai
embroider curtains or antimaeassa
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our officei
trades can be supplied. They are s
in running, strong, handsome, a
machine may be had on trial, £NI
CHAEGE. Instruction at TOO
free. Every WERTHEIM Machii
KEPT IN EEPAIE and workii
YEARS from the date of purchase
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OF CHARG
samples by post. Country age
liberal terms. BEALE and C<
street, near Market-street, and
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcast
Bathurst. No matter in what pai
live, we will supply you wit]
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM
INTEREST.
HE A U S T
“HOME" SHUT'
AMERICAN LOCKS'
SEWING MAC
EXPRESS
oss
*
Cl A/
TO effectually stop the decept
practised, every Machine no
is specially made for that clime, an<
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the worl
must look carefully to this, and if 1
upon them under false pretences,
design, we will not be responsible
work.
50.000 NOW IN USE IN A
No. L—Hand Machine, £4.
N
EW THEATRE ROYi
Proprietors, Messrs. THYNN
Open to treat with STARS I
acknowledged ability in every line <
accommodation—l4oo.
Professional Add
MISS MYRA
ADDRESS
Until end April—Theatre Royal,
April until end October—Theatr
M
E.
M. SAL
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-sti
M
R. AND MRS. W. ]
(Zulu Wab).
ON TOUR
Imperial Hotel, Adelaide, t
Western Australia to
HOUSES furnished at the (
Arcade, on Time Payments.
street.
\\T E repectfully invite the
T v Show Rooms, Central Pu
31, and 33 Park-street.
w
E Furnish Houses fro
Central Furnishing Area*
ark-atr eet.
CENTRAL FURNISHING
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, ani
This establishment is now open
requisite for household fnmishii
large and extensive deportment sc
glassware.
HLEVY and Co. beg to
• public that they have now
FURNITURE ESTABI
Nos. 29. 31,
E. LA
Wholesale and R
PRODUCE MEE
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORJ
48 Qeorge-street West (late Pa
And
Darlinghorst Road, near Vi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed ar
P. R. LAEK
Wholesale and Retail Wine an
778 and 780 GEORGE STS
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replet
stock of the Choicest Brands of W
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay
fJIHOMAB WEBB
BOND-STREE
Beg to Inform their customers tl
OPENED a LARGE CONSIGNS]
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, a
Also,
FANCY C H
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham. Massachusetts. U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass.,'is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham. Mass. — Abv.
Lessee
Acting Manager... Mr
ENGLISH OPEEA COMIQ
under the Direction of Mr. G©
AN UNQUALIFIED T
achieved in the production of the li
Offenbach’s worl
LA FILLE DU TAMBOU
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture I
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle,
chased during the day at H. Soltoi
King-street, near Emerson's.
HENEY E. HAEWOOD, ]
Q. AIE T Y T I
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Baylest
General Manager _
INTENSE ENTHUS
ELECTEIC SUCC
Under the Managers
Mr. WTBEET EE]
Of Viotorien Sard<
GEANDEST PLAT OF
DIPLOMACY
DIPLOMACY
]
In which Messrs. Eeeve, Tithera
Forbes, Gladstone, Worbold, and
Mayor, Arden, Canton, Howarth
will appear EVEEY EVENING nn
MAGNIFICENT NEW SCENE
APPOINTMENT
Box office and plan at Messrs. N
325 George-street.
Private boxes, £2 2s; orchestra
balcony, 2s; pit. Is.
Manager for Mr. Eeeve M
iJoHOOL 01
A GEAND DRAMATIC and M
TAINMENT
will be given in the abo
MONDAY EVENING,
BY THIS
LYCEUM DEAMATIC & MU?
in aid of their Library and W
Front Beats, 2s; Back Seats and
D. I
JN PANTS* HOME,
Under the Patronage of His Excel
Lady Augustus Loftus, Commo
and Mrs. Wilson.
THE ANNUAL DEAMATIC I
under the management of 1
in aid of the Building Fund of tl
will take place <
THUESDAT, 30th JUNE
at 8 o'clock p.m
AT THE SCHOOL 01
when will be prese
SCHOOL FOE COQU
and (by special req
WOODCOCK'S LIXTL
COMMITTEE: S. C. Brown, Esq
Darley M.L.C., W. L. Docker, i
Esq., ED., W. Laidley, Esq.,
Esq., Hon. H. Moore, M.l*.
Smith, C.M.Q., His Honor Mr.,
F. Wise, Esq., Henry Heron, 1
add to their number).
Tickets, ss. each, to be obtained i
and from the principal music warel
A limited number of tickets wil
gallery at 2s. 6d. each.
J, AETHUE
SOCIAL.
A skating rink has been formed at Tumnt.
The Vtercantile Rowing Club ball is fixed for the
21st July.
Masonic ball postponed indefinitely, to suit
arrival of the Princes.
Four ball fixtures for July—St. Vincent’s, Free-
masons', Mercantile 8.C., and the Scandinavians'.
The Austrian Band ball at Brisbane was a great
failure. There were but sixty or seventy dancers pre-
sent; therefore the management, who had provided a
-good supper, and spent n great deal in preparations,
must have lost heavily.
The Princes attended Divine service last Sunday
at the Adelaide Cathedral. Dr. Dendy preached an
eloquent sermon, partly about the Almighty and partly
•about the Princes. A reverent interest was taken in
the latter part of the sermon.
The committee of the Carlton Club, London,
have submitted a proposal for the admission of 350
additional members. As there are, even in these vulgar
colonies, one or two persons who have been “ down"
'for a number of years, this information may possibly
be interesting to someone.
The talented Mr. F. J. Pirani, the don of his
years at Melbourne University, of which he is now a
lecturer, was last week married at East St. Kilda to
Marian, eldest daughter of Mr. C. Benwick. At Mel-
bourne, Mr. W. J. Wall, another University man, was
.also married—to Miss Westwood.
“ Ancient” weddings, it would appear, are all
the rage in London just now. Lady George Paget,
widow of the late General Lord George Paget, was, the
other day, married to Lord Essex, whose eldest son.
Lord Malden, died suddenly two years ago. at the age
■of 53. By the way, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts
opened her house, for the first time since her celebrated
wedding, with a grand amateur affair, at which many
• clever singers and musicians performed, and recitations
were also given for the benefit of the widows and
orphans killed at Natal and in the Transvaal.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A Gunnedah constable has been committed for
trial for alleged perjury in his evidence respecting a
local cock-fight Tawhiao says that the trial of
Procoffy for the Te Aroha murder was fair, and that the
-best has been done for the discovery of the murderer.
Walter Bradbnrn, who left Maryborough (Q ) on
May 30 to reside on a selection at Tahila Creek, is
missing, and is believed to have been murdered A
scare was caused at Newcastle by the report that small.
nox had broken out locally A carrot 31b.
'7OZ. in weight is on exhibition at Newcastle
A man arrested at Wiloannia the other day for
“lunacy” proved to be a typhoid fever patient.
An old and experienced miner from the Etheridge
is now in Sydney trying to find capital to erect works
for treating galena ore, the principal pyrites contained in
the Etheridge stone At Gympie, this year, 142
blankets were distributed to the blacks. About 40 have
yet to be given out A splendid deposiit of asbestos
has been discovered at the foot of the main range, about
30 miles from Gympie A large company is to be formed
te develop the lodes. The fibre is very long A block
of stone is now being taken out of the Ida p. 0., May.
town which promises to rival all former parcels and to
■exceed the already splendid yield from the premier
claim on the Palmer Many hundreds of Chinese
Tiave left the Palmer for the Mulgrave The Molongo
reefs promise well Very rich specimens of qnartz
have been found at the eight mile reserve near Albury.
More miners are leaving iemorn for Mount Browne
A certain squatting firm in N.B. W. some twelve months
.ago bought a station for £BOOO, stocked it with sheep,
and sold it lately for £50,000 They cleared £30.000 by
the spec Since last reports, the A.J.S. Bank have
-purchased 2400 z., and Messrs. W. C. Palmer and Co.
1140 z., of Mount Browne gold Dr. W. Pinlayson
M’Lean has settled in Wilcannia, “and has pleasure in
announcing that his professional charges will be based
■on a more reasonable scale than those heretofore
charged in that town.” Bryant, who escaped from
Cooma Gaol, has surrendered to the police. He says
be only wanted a few days* recreation It is said that
a tribe of aboriginals were recently seen to roast and
eat a child within seven miles of a Bake Gardiner (Sjk.)
bead station The Central Australian (Bourke) has
doubledits size, and is now an eight-page paper Tala-
wants station, on the Birie and Culgoo. with stock, Ac.,
has been sold by Mr. William Beaumont, through
Harrison, Jones, and Devlin, and Messrs. Maiden,
Hill, and Clark, to Mr. John Eobb, for £llO,OOO
The Alpine Gazette (Bright, Vic.) is defunct. The
proprietor intends bringing out a new paper at Beech-
worth Mr. Prondfoot now offers to sell his tram-
ways to the Dunedin City Council for the modest sum
of £130,000 A Melbourne barmaid named Hicks is
bringing an action against an individual who, she
alleges, slandered her Some Endeavour River set-
tlers have unsuccessfully tried te hold friendly relations
with the blacks £l2OO has been lost inone year in con-
nexion with a Christchurch corporation department
Eounsevell and Simms have cleared out of the Adelaide
Bulletin. Mr. Allison has now the credit of finding
the needful Gunsler, the caterer, in company with a
"heavily-loaded bludgeon, searched for the editor of an
Adelaide paper for three hours the other day. Reason
—a hideous likeness of the missing link—which the
editor hod published o»d labelled “ J. P. Gunsler."
Two Germans at Ipswich fought with clubs. One is on
the point of death, and the other is under committal in
gaol A new journal, the Argus, has made its first
appearance at Inverell Victoria will contribute maps
and statistics to the International Geographical Con-
gress at Venice this year A German laborer, crimped
while drunk, and carried off in American barque James
S. Stone, from Newcastle, cried, and said he left a wife
and children. Might have thought of them before
getting drunk Round Warwick (Q.) drought imperils
the crops. Twice sown wheat has tailed to germinate.
All lands open to selection at Maokay (Q,) have been
withdrawn, and will be proclaimed at a higher price,
owing to demand for sugar lands Though 8000
kangaroos have been killed during the last twelve
months on Bogandillon Station, Forbes, the trip ods
seem almost as numerous as ever Provisions how
abundant at Mount Browne, and mining news en-
couraging Cocks, of the European Hotel, charged
Peter Buckley for 3080 drinks supplied daring 3 weeks
A prisoner working in the Botanical Gardens, Dunedin,
borrowed a warder's coat, and coolly walked way
The Evening News, a new paper for Melbourne, is
announced, but no names ore attached to the pro-
spectus. A very rich lode of silver and lead, having
a width of 4 feet, has been struck at Quidong Miss
Kenny, for five years assistant teacher at Queanbeyan
public school, died on ISthinst., and was followed to
the grave by 150 children Mr. J. J. Penn, of Port
Macquarie, obtained prizes at Sydney and Melbourne
Exhibitions for “ Isabella " wine The schooner
Policeman, built in Sydney in 1854, has been wrecked
on the N.Z. coast Mr. Benjamin Wells, editor of the
Taranaki News, N.Z., is dead. He was the author of
the “History of Taranaki.” Mrs. M'Gahey, the
woman whose husband was murdered at Reefton, N.Z.,
and who recently gave herself up to the pol’ce stating
that she had set fire to his house, has been pronounced
to be insane The Christchurch (N.Z.) Law Society
have secured the conviction of Cecil Gurney, who was
fined £lO for acting as a conveyancer A man named
Brown got two months’ imprisonment at Christchurch,
N.Z., for ill-treating a horse so severely that it died.
An Auckland paper has christened that neat little
journal. The Observer, “ The Snobservee." A man
charged with suicide in Akaroa was discharged, aggra-
vating circumstances being admitted. He wasn’t mar-
ried: what could they have beenp Mr. B.
Kelly, one of the oldest inhabitants of Tumut, is dead,
aged 75 William Bristow, of Williamstown, has been
mangled to death in a stone-crushing machine A
Melbourne woman, Elizabeth Williams, has been con-
victed of burglary The Corea copper mine. Cobar,
has been purchased by a company for £60,000 The
appeal of Moritzon, the Dunedin dandy, against his
conviction for embezzlement, was unsuccessful A
man, 72 years of age, has been committed for trial in
Auckland, on a charge of rape on a girl under 12 years
old The Bank of N.Z. are opening a branch at Sava,
the new Fijian capital Catherine Dunlop, already
thrice tried for poisoning her late husband, but whose
case has been pending owing to the disagreement of the
juries, has been admitted to bail The intending
Chinese passengers from Newcastle by the Kembla were
ejected from the vessel,. the whites refusing to travel
with them for fear of small-pox The Princes will not
visit Brisbane in the time lost at the
■ ■ ion 3 . 1 . “**’
It is hoped that the next time John L. Hordern
presumes to intrude his odious business-advertising
boat on spectators who are taking their pleasure at a
boat-race, the regatta committee will resort to
dynamite. Our terms are five shillings per inch.
In his comedy of “Time works wonders,”
Douglas Jerrold says, “Women are all alike; when
they’re maids they’re as mild as milk. Once make ’em
wives, and they lean their backs against their marriage
certificates and defy you.**
The young milkman and his betrothed stood be-
fore the registrarof marriages. “ You take this milk—
ahem I —this man for butter or for worse?” the official
inquired. The girl said it sever a-curd to her before,
but she supposed she would if that was the only whey.


BS
MARTIN & PAIN,
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
CHAFF CUTTERS
For Hand or Power.
OUE Stock of Chaff Cutters comprises all the lead-
leding English and Colonial makes and we
have all sizes suited to all requirements.
OUE HAND POWEE Machines range in price
from £3 15s to £5 ss; and HOESE or STEAM
POWEE Machines from £6 to £25.
IP requested we fix and start any of our machines
which never fail to give satisfaction. Full par-
ticulars, free by post.
OUE BUNGLES’ CHAFF CDTTEES
are the best machines in the trade and have been
awarded FIEST PEIZE wherever exhibited.
AS showing the Judges estimate of Buncle’s Ma-
chines, we explain that Mr. BUNCLE’S MEL-
BOUENE EXHIBITION EXHIBIT was re-
commended for THE EMPEEOE OF GEE-
MANT’S SPECIAL PEIZE.
WE have all sizes in stock, and our Prices are the
very lowest.
WEITE to us FOE PEICES and PAETICULAES
OP EVEEYTHING.
MARTIN & FAIN,
339 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY,
The leading house in the Machinery Business.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHURST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Soli Agents fob Messes. Tangte Bros., Birmingham,
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. I and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
' TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFIC S 79 YORK STREET,
AND AT
ED WARD STREET, BRISBANE.
I
S,
Plumbers' and Engineers' Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers' Brine Pump
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
0 H N DAN
IMPORTER OF
4
235
PITT STREET SYDNEY
OR ■'«.
ALLWOOL
J p TWEED
3
K
SUITS
MEASURE
J&Zs.
CUT LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
SwOOPATTERNS'°CHOOSE FROM
H.L.SUMMERFIEU
PITTSTSYONEY.
PATTERNS
iND GUIDE TO SELF MEASUREMENT,
SENT, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
GREER AND
PRIZE
ALBUEY WINES.
Red Wines :
C o.’»
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbeo
Whit® Wines
Reisling
Verdeilno
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY: Printed and published by the proprietors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at The Bulletin
Office, 13 Bridge-street.
Miacellanec
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
HEBB L E 1
416 GEORGE ST
Dispense Prescriptions chet
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English p:
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spon
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS’
Send for a Price List. Counter
ally attended to. Don’t forgel
i cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New I
You
W. KER
manufacturing
WATCH AND CLOCI
664 GEOEGE STEEEI
Opposite St. Andrew's
Medals'of every description. Mas
sentation Trowels designed i
Premises.
DIAMOND SET’
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, froi
KING STREET S
TAILOR
' 1
FSAFASFAS
CANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT'S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’B STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEP WASH. MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
BT E S
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT
Non-poisonous ! Non-corrosive I Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. Tie finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnouqh, M. A., Ashdeld :—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee: —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney ;—My child had sore eyes for 2J years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, andjaques, solicitors), Sydney ;—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fmit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
BATHS.
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, opposite Palmer-street,
PRACTICAL RAIRCUTTER,
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR - VVORKER, STAGE AND STREET WIG - MAKER.
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings of Ladies’ Hair worked as required.
Note the address— Oxford-street, opposite Palmer-street.
CD
(*
DC
M
GO
PRIZE
0
No. 12 Hunter Street.
ELLERCAMP.
(Successor to PAEEOTBEOS.)
Just Received by the Mail,
the
NEW COMET SHOE,
5/6 pair.
THE ROYAL COURT SHOE,
7/6 pair.
MOROCCO BUTTON SHOE,
7/6 pair.
Fur-Lined Warm SLIPPERS,
7/6 pair.
Choice Assortment of New
Fancy SCARFS, HANDKER-
CHIEFS, and
CHEYEEETTE GLOVES,
New Spring-top Fur-Lined
GLOVES.
Early Inspection Invited.
w
t the world
per & Co.’s
ifactures
awarded
bst Prizes
id the
*t. First
»est of their
the Sydney
tional Exhi-
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up."
BUY
CD
oo
■PP.T'ZP!
CO
DEPOT.
AMERICAN MACHINERY
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11 PITT STEEET,
IMPORTERS of ALL DESCRIPTION of MACHINERY, HAVE for SALE—
J A Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working Machinery—Sydney Exhibition, 1880.
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined). Insertion and pure Gum Fackmg.
Rubber and Leather Belting, Eaw-hide Lacing, genuine tucks packing round and square
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes, Eock Drills, Windmills, Planing Machine Knives
T and J. Cutters’ Machinery Oil. Rubber Hose—best quality guaranteed— sc., sc.
i. ana j. suiters mac , JSEND FOE CIRCULARS AND PEICES.
