

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.—Mo. 68.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 14, 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin,
SATURDAY, MAY It, 1881.
The Kelly Awards.
The Board in Victoria which has made recommend-
ations with respect to the apportionment of the
rewards offered by the Governments of Victoria
and New South Wales for the destruction of the
Kelly gang has managed to please nobody. The
different actors in the closing scene at Glenrowan
are discontented, the Chief Secretary has declared
that the Government does not adopt the recom-
mendations of the Board as settling the distribu-
tion, and the Colonial Secretary of Queensland
has, in very downright language, declared his
dissatisfaction with the share proposed to be
distributed among the contingent of native police
lent by his colony. The Board had certainly a
most difficult task. So many persons took part in
the closing scene of the gang’s existence, and
contributed to the result in such varied ways, that
it would have puzzled anyone less gifted than
Solomon to discriminate* between their deserts
and merits. The question of distribution was, in
fact, a Gordian knot, and the true way to master
it was to cut, not to unravel it. But the
idea of masterful proceedings of that kind
can only emanate from master minds, and
master minds, braced up in unison, are never to
be got on a Board of Inquiry. The Board, in this
instance, lacked nerve to depart from common-
place routine, and dabbled with the awards in a
paltering, compromising fashion. They invented,
or discovered, distinctions among men of whom
not one had distinguished himself particularly
above another, and even admitted claims which
were not germane to the promise of the proclama-
tions offering the money. Mr. Cubnow, the
schoolmaster, was unmistakeably the hero of the
day, and if he were entitled to share in the award
at all, he had a right to receive the bulk of it. It
was he who saved the police who later invested
the hotel. But for his self-sacrificing devotion,
not one of the force in the train would, as is
generally admitted, have ever stepped out of it
alive. But the reward was not offered to people
who might save the fives of policemen, but to such
as might capture or kill the outlaws. Now, Mr.
Cubnow neither captured nor killed them,
nor did he take any part in the fight.
He saved the lives of the police, and by so
doing contributed to bring about the end of the
gang. But the distinction between contributing
to, and participating in, the actual capture and de-
struction should have been recognised by the Board.
Mr. Cubnow either was entitled to all the reward
or to none of it. Without his action the gang
would have escaped triumphant after a fresh
and signal outrage, yet he did nothing to them.
Of course he had a claim upon the country, which
the Legislature would have had to recognise in some
special way. But the Board might very fitly have
pointed this out while eliminating his claims from
their consideration of the apportionment of the
award. The same fine of reasoning applies with
even greater force to the drivers and guards of the
trains which conveyed and piloted the police.
Thus they would have simplified their task in
some important particulars. Mr. Superintendent
Hare figures among those to share the reward in
the larger degree, for no recognisable reason. He
had, indeed, been active in organising plans for
their capture. But his organisation effected
nothing—in no way contributing to the final
hemming in of the outlaws —and his plans
had resulted from first to last in failures.
But, apart from that, Mr. Hare received a pain-
ful wound, leaving permanent injury. This
perhaps weighed. It ought not to have weighed
a t all with clear-headed men. The reward was
offered for the capture or destruction of the gang,
—it was not a fund for compensating the wounded
fo this instance, again, Mr. Hare might have
special claims upon the country, but he had no
special claim upon the reward. As a matter of
fact the influence of his wound upon the capture
was to diminish the chances, and especially to re-
duce Mr. Hare’s participation in the effective
part of the business. He went to the rear almost
immediately, and so far as he was concerned the
outlaws might have beat off the police and escaped
again. Instead, therefore, of being entitled to top
the list and to receive one-tenth of the whole re-
ward, Mr. Hare could fairly have been allotted
only a share less than that of the men who saw
the fight out in proportion to the slightness of
his participation in it. The only men who really
effected a capture were the two or three who en-
countered Ned Kelly, fought him face to face,
and secured him. These men certainly have not
been too liberally dealt with. It may be urged
that any of the police and others who were in
vesting the hotel would have shown equal spirit
had Kelly borne down upon their posts instead
of where he did. But that is beside the question.
The same may have been said of all the constables
in the force who were not at Glenrowan at all.
The actual combatants were entitled to reap the
advantage of their fortune. So long as the
custom prevails of recognising officers as more
deserving than their men who have shared equal
perils, as has always been the rnle in the British
naval and military forces in matters of prize
money, there can be no exception taken to the
larger share allotted to the Queensland Sub-
Inspector Connor, and Mr. Superintendent
Sadlier. They were both present, and shared
all the anxieties and risks of the engagement.
These anxieties were evidently great ; so
great, indeed, that they seem to have been effectual
in wonderfully minimizing the risks. With the
exception of the Queensland aboriginal trooper
who had the skin of his scalp furrowed by a ball,
and therefore should have been placed somewhere
on a similar footing with the other wounded man,
Mr. Hare, and of constable Johnson, who first
found courage to approach the hotel after firing
had ceased to proceed from it for an hour or two—
the other actors in the scene were on a dead level
of merit. They had with the most admirable
docility obeyed their officers’ instructions not to
unduly expose themselves, and had shown a par-
ticular aptitude for imitating the example set them
in that respect. They had stood behind trees,
crouched behind logs, and crawled into hollows
with a fine dexterity. From their respective nooks
they had kept up a sharp fusillade upon a house
which contained more innocent persons than out-
laws, but this apparently inexcusable proceeding
was perhaps justified in part by an inward
conviction on their parts that, however frequently
they might fire at the house, they were not likely
to hit it. As a matter of fact, however, some of
them did hit it, as the fate of Cherry and the
mortal wound of the boy Jones amply testified,
without counting the death-wound inflicted upon
the outlaw Byrne. We are not at all disposed to
scoff at the conduct of the police. What we take
exception to is the fuss about rewarding them.
They were to all intents and purposes raw troops
who had never before been under fire, and they
comported themselves no better or worse than raw
troops not inured to fire ordinarily do. Individu-
ally, they were, no doubt, as courageous and
determined as any equal number of men who
could have been got together. No one knowa
how facing rifles relaxes the nerves until he has
made the experiment, and the bravest veteran is
the readiest to confess the tremors he felt during
his first engagement.
Those Deceitful Heathens.
The Eev. W. S. Swanson has sojourned among the
Chinese in their own country for twenty-two years, and
he knows them. After learning what he has to say
about them, we stand aghast at their villainy. He de-
clares—we select the Herald report of his utterances,
which must be correct —that “ the Chinese are the most
deceitful nation on the face of the earth. He had known
a man quote from Confucius the golden rule, and yet be
picking another’s pocket all the time.” Horrible! To
us, having lived all our lives among Christians, who are
so different, this statement appears to be incredible.
What, Mr. Swanson, do you pretend to say that you
have known a wretch in China professing to reverence
and follow the teaching of the golden rule of ‘‘Reci-
procity ” —avoiding doing to others what yon would
not have done to yourself—and all the time violating
that rule ? Why, you will be telling us next that you
have known merchants, professing to be pious, cheating
their customers by false labels, adulterations, short
measures, and fraudulent weights. Yor will be saying
that you have met with bank directors, groaning
through the nose and with uplifted eyes, about Kong-
fut-ze, while robbing widows and orphans of their
portions. Nay, you may even go the length of declar-
ing that yon have known sleek Joss-house elders
swindling a whole community with shoddy cement and
rotten fonndations. Beware, or the Pekin Morning
Pecksniff will be asking yon “ what these things have
to do with the matter ?”
Liberty and Priestcraft.
An organization has just been formed in Sydney for
“ the extension of Civil and Religious Liberty,” and
one of the “religious ” papers—the Church of England
Record —warns its readers that the principles of that
wicked society, “ The Liberal Association of N.S. W."
lead to “ Darlinghurst and Berrima.” We have been
favoured with a copy of the “ Rules” of the Associa-
tion, and we notice that it is based on such principles as
“The Universal Brotherhood of Man,” “The superior
authority of Demonstrated Pact—Fidelity to Know-
ledge," “ Aspiration after the highest Morality,” “ Res-
pect for known Worth,” “ The Sanctity of Truth,” &c.
If these things lead to “ Darlinghurst” the sooner we
all follow Mr. Dibbs’ example, and undertake a twelve
months* service there, the better, while the editors of
the “religious” papers might be allowed two years.
Tush, reverend scribblers I the time has past for twad-
dle of this description. Even children are getting
beyond it. Seeing that almost every great man who
has passed away during the last twenty years, from
Charles Dickens to Thomas Carlyle, has been one of
your “ outcasts”; that the three most prominent
female names of this epoch, those of Harri et Mar-
tineau , Florence Nightingale, and “George
Eliot,” share a similar “ infamy,” that all the living
authors in the front rank in science and philosophy, at
this moment, laugh at your pretensions, it would be
wise of you if you cannot be modest to be silent. At
the least, in your newspapers, which are seen some-
times by the outer world, cultivate truthfulness, what-
ever you may do in your pulpits.
God Save the Queen!
Loyalty, no doubt, is one of the most beautiful traits
of the people of this community. No more touching
sight is to be witnessed, in any part of the world, than
that of a group of citizens gracefully raising their head-
pieces, and exposing their bare crowns to the mercy of
the elements, when a street-fiddler strikes up the
National Anthem. The pulchritude (!) of the act is
only equalled by its evident sincerity. No suspicion of
mere custom attaches to it; no old habit called into
action by well-remembered notes. On the contrary,
nothing but a deep and heartfelt love and devotion to
the great and glorious House of Brunswick. Thus,
when the Queen’s Birthday comes round, we find one
day all too short to squeeze into it the ineffable ex-
pressions of loyalty with which our bosoms are bursting.
It takes nearly a month to let it all off. Fireworks we
know to be the incense most savory to the nostrils of
royalty, and for fireworks we go. We go for them in
style. No half measures with ns ; no skinflinting with
half-penny squibs for a quarter of n hour on the 24tb
MR. GEORGE R. DIBBS.—(From a photo, by Gorus.)


of May, but nearly a whole solid month of right regal |
blazing with the most complicated of crackers and the 1
most sonorous and ear-splitting of squibs. When a
fiery, fizzing, wriggling, comet-tailed thing pope over j
the garden wall while we are drawing inspiration from
the moon, and bursts between our legs with hanging
and racketing and hissing enough to turn Nebuchad-
nezzar in his coffin, we do not repine, for we know that
its projector was actuated only by a deep spirit of
devotion to the person of the Queen, and for that we
can cheerfully submit to all and every discomfort. Or
when a blithesome cracker suddenly appears under our
mare’s nose as we are driving the “ gals ” to a muffin-
struggle, and dances frolicsomely around among her
feet, to the accompaniment of copious showers of
beautiful sparks and a musical rat-a-tat-tat of ex-
plosives, and she stands on her hind legs and performs
a fandango, and then backs up against a lamp-post,
shoots the “ gals ” into the gutter, breaks the shafts,
and bolts into a chemist’s shop, we are not vexed, for
we know that the spirit that put life into it was the
spirit of loyalty, and that the whole performance but
typified how devout we are to Queen Victoria. Hooray!
Strong and his Weaker Brethren.
This is a blessed time for heretics. They are no longer
roasted, even metaphorically. They are taken by the
hand in a fat, futile sort of way, tears are shed upon
them, and they are generally slobbered over and be-
sought to “ take a thought and mend.” The “ boot ”
and the “ thumb-screw ” are never dreamt of; the
milder “ stool of repentance ” is not hinted at; and all
the old methods of “ Christian ” persuasion are allowed
to rust unused. Again we say it is a blessed time, as
the Rev. Charles Strong, of Melbourne must admit.
He has been writing his views on the Atonement,
leaving out, according to the Melbourne Presbytery,
such small items as “a supernaturally given revela-
tion,” the “ Incarnation,” and “ the atoning, life,
death, and resurrection of Our Lord,” and the Presby-
tery, after days and nights of discussion, merely bewail
the fact, " express their sincere concern and pain,” and
suggest to Mr. Strong, in a “ spirit of brotherly kind-
ness,” to now and then refer to these matters “inhis
future utterances.” Meantime, the Rev. Charles, like
that “ still strong man ” of Tennyson’s, is silent.
“An Enlightened Promoter of Rural
Industries.”
The dedication attached by the botanical Von Mueller
to his “ Select Extra Tropical Plants ” speaks of Sir
Henry Parses, to whom it it addressed, as an “enlight-
ened promoter of rural industries.” This certainly puts
the Premier in quite a new light. For though we have
ever well known that that adventurous politician is an
authority on plants (some of them indeed, intra rather
fLun extra tropical in their character), the idea of re-
garding him as in any sense a promoter of rural indus-
tries never entered our consciousness. As a bigoted
promoter of an extremely procrustean British Free
Trade theory, taken second hand from English econo-
mists, and possessing no special application to Austra-
lian circumstances. Sir Henry has probably done more
than any other New South Wales politician to retard
progress of the strictly rural industrial kind. At the
present moment rural industries languish because of the
inequitable and circumlocutory administration of the
Land Act; because of a discreditable partial railway
tariff ; and because (last but not least) of the grievous
lack of central produce and fruit markets worthy of the
colony. Knowing this, we should regret that Yon
Mueller should have lent his endorsement to so singu-
larly bad a name as that of “ Henry Parkes ’’—viewed
as that of a promoter of rural industries.
How Long, oh Lord?
How long will those would-be teachers that mount the
stump in the leading columns of the daily newspapers,
and who fondly fancy that they are guiding public
opinion, continue to misunderstand and misrepresent
the great social movements of the day ? That arch-
offender, the S. M. H., has been at it again, and coolly
lutnpsup Nihilism.Communism.andFenianism together
as synonymous terms for a similar idea! This is some-
thing like bracketing the Knights-Templars, the Lud-
dites. and the Pilgrim Fathers together as bodies of
people actuated by identical principles. Why is it that
these self-satisfied Sir Oracles, with plethoric purses
and capon-lined paunches, persist in seeing nothing in
the smugglings and headings of the masses in the
Herculean task of breaking their fetters, but an insane
thirst for bloodshed, and a wild demoniac desire to
revel in tumult and devilry? Selfishness, pure selfish-
ness ; nothing more. What to them are the ages of
slavery and degradation the people have had to endure ?
What the poverty, the misery, and the hard-grinding
servitude ? In these dandiprats’ doctrines there is but
one virtue in the people, and that is, forsooth, unquali-
fied submission to their superiors—save the mark.
God, they say, puts the people in their places, and all
they have to do is to rest and he thankful, and—
“ As they hav’nt got beef to be grateful for bread.
And bless the Lord it a’nt turnips instead.”
What wonder if, in wild despair how to improve their
positions, they break out into deeds of which we can-
not approve!
Clerical Boast Fowl.
An inelegant, yet forcible German proverb puts it in
this wise: “‘ O what we must suffer for the sake of
God’s Church I’ as the abbot said when the roast fowl
burned his fingers." There’s a good deal too much of
that kind of ecclesiastical suffering now-a-days. Too
much clerical roast fowl, in fact. This the shrewder
sort of the faithful laity know to their cost by the
extreme ease with which a “ sound divine ” is knocked
over by the mere fancy of having dene hard work. The
“sound divine,” believing that he is almost spent in
the service of his Church, gets a duly qualified medical
practitioner, for a consideration, to endorse that belief,
and then it is “hark forward ” for a trip to Europe on
the proceeds of the inevitable testimonial-plus the
anticipation of another testimomal-whence, “hy the
mercy of Providence,” he is able to return to his
arduous Australian mission service fully restored to
health. Is not this roast fowl, dearly beloved ? A
daintv dish, doubtless ; but one most certainly (as
Laeey would have said)—
“ All by the clargy invinted
To make a fat bit for themselves.
We respect, though doctrinally we may disagree with,
, , , , ~
the self-denying priest of the Carlo Boeeomeo or
Xavier type—the minister who does actually spend him-
self in the service to which he is dedicated; but we
have nought but scorn for those gold-bagged priests
who (a iring to be venerably dull) preach that Gospel
according to St. Judas, which desecrates the “sacred
head ’* and “ labour-wounded hands and feet “ of the
people, that “grey-grown, speechless Cheist.” Yes,
there is clearly too much clerical roast fowl.'*
Dibbsian[?].
The lives of great men are practical lessons of
the widest and most general interest. The inci-
dents of their daily life, however trivial they
may on the surface appear, have a meaning and
an application of vast import, but, as a rule f
fathomable only by those who probe into the
very essence of things, casting aside the mask of
appearances to get at the rich pabulum that lies
dormant beneath. When we learn that Cuvihr s
favorite amusement was to go on his hands and feet on
the floor, and transform himself into a coach horse, for
the gratification of his children, we see, without much
difficulty, the immense influence this trait of his
character had in his work of classification. And in like
manner when we are told of George Washington
cutting down the cherry-tree, we find a great man
beneath the surface. And so when we read that George
R. Dibbs has turned one thousand dolls’ bedsteads in
Darlinghurst, we need not he dismayed at the apparent
frivolity of the information, for in it those who seek
may find a lesson good to know : —When you want to
run for the Legislature, first get run straight into the
stone-jug for a twelvemonth, and when safely there,
turn the lathe one hundred and sixty-six thousand
times every twenty-four hours —or the treadmill if you
like; we are not particular in these parts.
More Lucre.
Hooeay! Another blushing parson has had a bag of
money forced upon him —the Eev. Eichard Nelly, to
wit. [N.B.—No relation to Ned, though he seems also
an adept at taking money off people.] And, besides the
“ chips,” there was a watch—a gold watch, please—and
a sweetly pretty water-colour picture of a naughty little
boy stealing apples on a Sunday and a good little dog
trying to make off with the seat of the naughty little
boy’s pants. The specie was, as usual, most probably
intended to aid the blusher in taking a six
months’ holiday in Europe after slaving two solid years
at the work of curing souls. The gold watch was,
doubtless, meant as a delicate hint not to open out the
sermons too far into the sixthlies; and the pretty
picture to teach nice moral lessons to the “kids.”
Mr. Walton, in presenting these sundries, said that
the Eev. Kelly was neither Sidney Smith nor George
Herbert; but, unfortunately, he did not tell us who he
was; and how the history of Australia is going to be
filled up without this knowledge, we cannot for the life
of us tell. It is a downright shame that the Heeald
does not give us more of these parsonifled pars. If she
only knew how we hunger for them, and rootle through
the columns in search of them, perhaps she would
satisfy our thirst.
“You’re Another!”
Of all the melancholy exhibitions of the tu quoque form
of disputation, commend us to that with which Messrs.
Buchanan and Eeid have been favouring the public
during last week. There we had two prominent legis-
lators —one a man of broad views and proved talent,
though devoid of judgment and erratic, and the other
the rising hope of the Conservative section—beslavering
each other with left-handed compliments in the most
approved manner of the London “ coster.” In Mr.
Buchanan there is, perhaps, nothing to be wondered at,
for his idiosyncrasies would appear to be boundless ; but
that a young politician, with all his fame before him,
who aspires to taking a leading position in the reaction-
ary and “ moderate ” (as it pleases to be termed) party,
should so damage his chances of high reputation as to
fall to bedrubbing a political opponent with pedlar’s
French, is indeed a sad instance of the shortcomings of
the human mind. Mr. Reid has in him all the poten-
tialities of a moderately useful public man, but if he
cannot conduct an argument without calling out
“ You’re another," he may bid farewell to fame. The
day of slangwhanging is happily passing away.
Academical Prudery.
“ The Senate of the University of Sydney have been
lately considering the expediency of admitting female
students on the same footing as men to lectures, ex-
aminations, and academical degrees.” Well done»
worthy Senate. We genuflex to you, most potent,
grave, &c. &c. But why spoil this good work, by intro-
ducing the nauseous element of prudery ? “Care being
taken that no lectures which females are required to
attend shall contain anything unsuited to the delicacy
of the sex.” Physiology, then, is to be taught in meta-
phor, in this style : “ This, ladies, is the.bone of the
upper portion of the locomotive member of a male.”
Away with delicacy, if this is delicacy; or, if useful
information has to be withheld lest it be unsuited to
the sex. Learn that all knowledge is pure and good,and
that there is nothing in the wide world that, as know-
ledge, is nnsuited to the delicacy of the sex. Let our
girls stand forth in their own native purity, as natural
beings, fitting themselves for the realities of life, and
attempt not to fill their minds with unlovely ideas, by
endeavouring to keep from them any class of know-
ledge, on the ground that it is unsuited to the delicacy
of the sex. Man or woman, no mind was ever yet
rendered impure, or prurient, by knowledge. It is the
want of knowledge that breeds the indelicacy.
An Anstralian Romance.
We have our romances, even beneath the prosaic rule
of a Paekes, and many of them are sufficiently tragic
to satisfy the most sensation-loving washerwoman.
Among these is a narrative we have been reading of a
journey from Temora to Mount Browne by a party in
search of the root of evil. It is hut one account of
many—all apparently of apiece as regards the privations
endured, and only differing in the incidental filling in.
In the present instance, the narrators travelled over
600 miles, over stretches of road of 40 or 50 miles, with-
out food or water. Several perished. But this recital
was eclipsed by that of a party they met, the members
of which had killed some of their horses to satisfy their
own raging thirst, having come 135 miles from Bourke
without water and under a burning sun. “ One man had
cut his wrist to quench his thirst with his blood, and
one had scarred his face and let the blood trickle into
his mouth.” Can any tale of the Sahara surpass this
for horror? Facts such as these furnish a telling
I comment on the power of that wild lust for gain which
Dante apostrophises—
“ Lo 1 the fell monster with the deadly sting!
Who passes mountains, breaks through fenced walls
And firm embattled spears, and with his filth
’Taints all the world 1 ”
It is the same motive, we suppose, however, in a more
or less modified degree, which lies at the base of all
progress—from that of tho studious youth “ scorning
delights to live laborious days," to the bearded, sun-
bronzed miner with his dreams of a country “ pub.”
and its attendant honris as a bower of rest for his
declining years. But, surely, this kind of thing is old
enough now to have taught people to be chary of trust-
ing to the highly-coloured reports of more or less
interested provision-dealers or officials to whose profit
it is to decoy the unsuspecting and credulous into a fruit-
less journey in search of a Will-o’-the-wisp.
Vice, Jealousy, Brandy, and Ra[?]ors.
The recent tragedy in Eussell-street, Melbourne,
which has darkened for a while the social horizon, is
well calculated to make even the most callous and
thoughtless pause and reflect. A young girl, well con-
nected, good-looking, and with a pleasing address,
voluntarily chooses a life of shame. Growing weary of
the coarse surroundings aud vexatious anxieties of this
life, she marries a man in a good social position, only
to return, at the earliest opportunity, to the accus-
tomed haunts of vice. Among her many paramours is
the man Colley, who, if he survive, will be charged
with the crime of attempted murder. He seems to be
of the ordinary type of young man without fixed
principles, who abandons himself to the gross vices
which flourish with a rank luxuriance in our midst.
He and the girl Lewis rapidly waste all the money at
their disposal, and with the inevitable result—she
becomes anxious only to get rid of him. Then he is
stung into mad jealousy, and flies to the brandy bottle.
Soon follows the horrible scene which the press and
public have dwelt on with a ZoLA-like relish. It is not
our intention to drag these ghastly details into the light
of day. ■ But we cannot let this dreadful affair pass
without giving a word of warning to the rising genera-
tion in these Australian cities. The angry provincial
presbyters are abusing the Rev. Charles Strong, but
they have no time to go into the “ highways and by-
ways,” as did their beneficent Master. While the
murderer rushes with the knife against the throat of
the sinful girl, the Rev. Mr. Spicer is, perchance, con-
sidering whether all who do not bow to the Fast when
they pray to the Almighty will not forthwith be damned.
His poor little soul was perturbed because the Exhi-
bition building was opened on Good Friday; but neither
he nor his admirers have had one word to say about
this tale of more than pagan vice and depravity. We do
not wish to be too hard in judging the girl Lewis, or
her unhappy paramour—truly, their sins have found
them out—but if the young of both sexes who have
eagerly devoured, during the last few days, all the
1 revolting details of this tragedy, do not fail to draw
; the inference that, after all, virtue is more likely to
lead to happiness than vice, the story will not have
been altogether thrown away.
“Pull Devil, Pull Baker.”
Thb pull-devil, pull-baker process on the Licensing
Benches is not yet got rid of. The Total Abstainers
magistrates and the Publicans’ magistrates have been
hard at it again. Tlje latter have rallied afresh, after a
period of temporary depression, and the former have
been made to feel that the brief supremacy which they
used so indiscreetly is not to last for ever. The public
will be heartily glad when it has seen the last antic of
the entire crews. The unblushing partiality of the one
set, or the shameless insensibility of the other, have
been equally humiliating to the community. The one
lot were perceived to mount the bench with the
foregone determination to use the letter of the law as
the instrument for giving effect to their own craze
against all publicans as such, and the other were equally
seen to ascend the seat of judgment resolute to give no
heed even to the most damning evidence that license-
holders had abused their trust, and had been a curse to
society and a bane to public decency. The teetotal
fanatics have had their turn of ascendancy, and a pretty
business they have made of it. Before them a publican
had only to be accused to be found guilty. Now the
Liquor party are getting the pull again; and if the Devil
owned a license, and the angel Gabriel gave evidence
against him, the chances would be overwhelming that
Satan would be granted a renewal—subject to a censure,
meaning nothing, and only tacked on to save appear-
ances. There was, for instance, that “ most respectable
man,” so vouched for by one of Her Majesty’s Justices
of the Peace then upon the Bench, the renewal of whose
license was opposed by the police on the trivial and
vexatious grounds that he had been six times convicted,
during the preceding twelve months, of breaking the
law under which he was licensed. The renewal of this
license was recommended to the Colonial Treasurer,
and the blushing recipient tetired from the Court
amidst quite a shower of magisterial compliments,
apparently for not having been convicted oftener. The
public is pretty full of this sort of business. When Sir
Henry Paekes can screw up his courage to the point
of definitely breaking with either the temperance party
or the public-house interest, instead of shaking hands
with the one while he winks at the other, the public
will be glad to hear of it, and to see a new Licensing
Law fairly presented to the country.
Mr. Ruskin on our Town Hall Foundations.
The flrst-art-critic of the present day strikes the key-
note of one of his finest volumes in an eloquent passage,
wherein he groups into zones—like those marked by
the isothermal lines of the naturalist—the different
manifestations of the character of humankind as they
are displayed under its various conditions of existence.
Having, from an assumed elevation, directed the
reader’s gaze to the architectural monuments of the
more graceful and artistic Southern peoples—where the
purple of the Phrygian marble and the rose of that of
Synada, with Mauritania’s gold and Lybia s azure,
delicately wreathed and interwoven, seem ever to reflect
the hues of that ether and the gold and purple of those
sunsets which go so far to impress and tacitly tone the
idiosyncrasies of those who dwell beneath their in-
fluence —he travels further still, until the eye rests upon
the storm-swept heaths of the more hardy Northerner,
who, with fingers numbed by cold, and eyes dimmed
by the piercing blast, shapes and poises the uncouth
masses of that comparatively unhewn sandstone with
which he builds perennial structures destined by
bim to withstand the storms of centuries. The illustra-
tion may be prosecuted still further, as indeed is done
by its originator. He draws a parallel between the
national character and the spirit of the political system
of each of these peoples, on the one hand; and, on the
other, that type of architectural taste which its
peculiar educative forces lead it to affect. Thus he
maintains—whether logically or not it is beside our
present purpose to enquire—that while a certain wily
softness of diplomacy and an excess of faith in the
efficiency of a refined moral suasion, with an artistic
taste widely diffused among the masses, would in the
one case correspond with the skilful tracery and ten-
demess of colouring of the architectural mosaic—the
more masculine, if less graceful, monumentaj of the
other will meet with their prototype in a physically
strong government on broad liberal principles* and a
state of society, in general, vigorously henost and
pure. The national palace, the temple of worship, the
public edifice, the civic hall —these are Ruskin’b enteria,
in this connection. If an application of this theory
nearer home must cause every patriotic colonist to hide
his diminished head at the allusion, yet a con-
sideration of its coincident features should not ha, with-
out a beneficial effect. Thus, if a close examination
elicited the fact that even a “ hideous structure under,
mined with fraudulent materials, and plastered with
deceit,” as our Town Hall has been described to be, is
not without its parallel moral features in that state of
society and rulerdom which has allowed them to find so
tangible and obtrusive an embodiment, and if their
discovery be but the prelude to their removal —as must
be the case if our social system be not irremediably
rotten to the core—then the costly lesson is not with-
out its fruit; and the moral is worth the fable, though
the latter take the startling form of a toppling civic
haU.
Dr Beg and “Current Literature.”
The Rev. Dr. Wazir Beg, as a representative Sabba-
tarian, is literally “ a caution.” Whether too much
learning or au overdose of Puritanism **m de him
mad ” we do not know, neither do we care to enquire
But, that he is hopelessly in antagonism to modern
thought on the question of opening public libraries on
Sundays, va sans dire. In a recent letter to the S. M.
Herald the doctor quoted with evident delight, as
though it clinched his argument, the statement that
“ when men and young men do attend the Manchester
Library on Sundays it is generally to read newspapers
and current literature.” Now, that men and youngmen
in Manchester are wise enough to do so seems to ua
to be a proof of the utility of the Sunday opening of
public libraries. Isn’t that just what sensible men would
wish to bring about: to wit, effect the introduction of
the minds of the men of the lower and lower middle
classes to the literature of the day ? It public
libraries are merely to be kept open on Sundays to en-
able a few thoughtful mechanics to study Sanchoni.
athon or Philostorgioris, we will in future vote with
Dr. Beg, not because of agreement with his views, but
because the game (of throwing open the doors) would
not be worth the candle. Much of current literature
may be light reading : yet a good deal of what is pre-
sented in a light form is evidently instructive. Now, to
receive instruction in an agreeable way is surely better
for both soul and body than listening to useless theology
purveyed in the dullest of channels. But this is just
what Dr. Beg won’t see !
The Great Mokannas of the Public Offices.
If the Civil Service Bill, which is so hopefully expected
next session, deal but justly with the pretensions of the
various Under-Secretaries of Government Departments,
it will at least have conferred one benefit, which we
promise will be fittingly appreciated by the hardly-
treated class which the measure is intended to serve.
We do not, of course, allude here so much to the
departmental relations alone of these autocratic gentle-
men as to those in which their immediate subordinates
and the public generally are jointly and severally
affected. The latter is specially the case in instances
where the officials named exercise the power—without
possessing the right—of making appointments to
the Civil Service. According to British pre-
cedent, and, through it, universal usage, the Minister,
and, in his person, the people—for by seeking and
obtaining re-election on his acceptance of office he
places his constituents under a species of moral respon-
sibility for his Ministerial acts—should alone make
these appointments. To the U nder-Secretary after this,
as permanent head of the department, appertains the
duty of reporting on the appointee’s efficiency, recom-
mending—but not enforcing—his subsequent promotion
or dismissal at his discretion. As the matter at present
stands, however, while Midas, the erstwhile store-
keeper and bank-director, the chosen of the electors
and the favoured of his Premier—and, let us gleefully
add, the concoctor of refreshingly light-and-airy taxa-
tion proposals—when Midas, the Minister, desires to
pitchfork the nephew of a disinterested political sup-
porter into a snug berth, it must be rather embarassing
to him and his gushing philanthropy to find that
Egerius, his bland Under-Secretary, has quietly
stepped in with a mild stranger youth, who already
surmounts the vacant office stool. This sort of thing
is wrong in principle, and must be even more perplex-
ing to the official rank and file than to the Minister.
It is, nevertheless, we understand, common in the
Departments, and is one of those apparently harmless
abuses from which legions of unhappy sufferers devoutly
but silently, and with wholesome awe, pray to be
delivered.
Pact Stranger than Fiction.
The “ cruise of the Ferret’ will doubtles s become bis
torical, and Gilbert and Sullivan may some day
perhaps make it the subject of a comic opera that will
rival the world-renowned “Pinafore.” Whonowcansay
that the days of romance and nautical adventure are
over? Neither Cooper nor Marrtat ever ventured
upon anything so improbable as the doings of Messrs.
Henderson, Wright, Wallace and Co. Truth has
once more asserted its claim to be stronger than fiction.
It is to he feared that the Australian schoolboy, instead
of dreaming of adventures on desert islands, and amid
Polar icebergs, will turn his thoughts to the Clyde, the
Cardiff docks, and the Sandridge railway pier. What
could be more enjoyable than for two or three jolly
fellows during the vacation to charter a ship, provision
it right royally, engage a crew, and away to the Brazils,
Capetown, the Mauritius, in search of cargoes of coffee
sugar,spices, to be disposed of, and the proceeds spent in
Melbourne or Sydney, London or Paris P Prom what
has so far leaked out there is no doubt that during the
voyage officers and crew “lived like fighting cocks.
Nor is this to be wondered at if, as we haveheard, there
was a lady in the case. It is said that Mrs. Henderson
was the real ruler, and the sex well know that the best
way to get at a man is, as Pope said, througu ms
stomach. We may be sure that she it was whosupe -
tended the cookery, and thus secured the affections oi
the crew, who might otherwise have turned rusty.
But is it not sad to think that such well-planned schemes
should, after all, have failed ? It is always the ease.
Without becoming needlessly didactic, may we not say
that this is inevitable? There is, however.^someth mg
almost ludicrous in the final catastrophe. Findi g
the game is up, the three comrades in roguery separate.
One is caught at Longwood. another at Wodoueu.
while, most ignominious of all, the gallant >P,
is found in an obscure hotel m a state of IntoJ '
furnishing another illustration of the truth o
lines " i a id schemes of mice and men
Gang aftagley.”


HOW TO MAKE B
Is a problem which the vast majority of mankind have set them
which presents itself is, how to spend it to the best advantage,
never been wanting. Their name is, and always has been, “ I
numbers they leave the question still unanswered—so conflict
his transactions be in pence or pounds or thousands of pound
upwards, is vociferous in telling you that his wares are the “ ch
the uttermost corner of this “ puffing advertising, bill-sticking
has termed it. Not only is it confined to modern times, but
past, “from Noah’s flood downwards,” —aye, and before it—
one form or Could we bring to light a copy of th
Telegraph of Ancient Nineveh, “ that great city,” our estims
what out if the announcements of the Smiths, Joneses, and R
found figuring as boldly as to-day, apprising the public o
sacrifice” or “immense reduction” in the price of the latest rc
AS A MATTER OF FACT, it is the outcome of that p
dominates, not only the whole human race, but every race, thn
the lowest form of animalculse —those organisms so frail as t(
ascending upwards through each successive stage of evolution, t
ANTHONY HORDERN I
claim exemption from this rule. To attempt to get rid of this v
is this, that whilst with the Ninevites and Babylonians as alike
Glaring their wares to be
“THE CHEAPEST A
they would exultingly point a finger at the INDISPUTABL
which is furnished by the whole colony of New South Wales, v
in crowds to the
PALACE EMPO
each one with his or her quota of evidence, bearing witness to t
pared with the VALUE of the DRAPERY, &c., given for t
WHERE IS THE PALACE EMPORIUM ?” may 1
HAYMARKE
To this we would invite special attention :
OUR NAME AND ONLY ADDRE!
ANTHONY HORDERI
PALACE EMPOR
. HAYMARKET (ONE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
PRIZE “IVANHOE”
DINNER WINES 10/- per d<
BURQUNDY| Fraity
RIESLING ) Wmes j
|Wines ] l4 /- >•
MADEIRA
SHIRAZ
VTN ORDINAIRE
3/6 -<
PER GALLON.
' G. H. STEPHEN & CO
Wine Growers and Mercha
13 Bridge Street.
“"What is home where love is not?” asks a
susceptible young poet. It’s a mighty interesting place
—to the neighbours.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Anv.
SOCIAL.
The iLondon Morning Post is to be reduced to
a penny* Here is an opportunity to study cheap and
fashionable literature.
Rumours of a clandestine wedding in rather high
life, but not very high, are afloat. And the cream of lie
joke is that people are expecting the bridegroom to
marry—quite a different girl.
Those sending us society items must give their
names and addresses, so that we may be in a position
to enquire, if necessary, concerning the accuracy of
the information supplied. This week we have received
several communications of interest, but are debarred
from noticing them on account of the fact that we
hava no guarantee of the bona Jides of our corres-
pondents.
A most enjoyable ball took place at Bathurst on
Friday evening, the last night of the coursing meeting.
The ballroom was tastefully decorated, and the catering
and general management reflected the highest credit
on the gentleman who managed the affair. As is usual
at such scenes in Bathurst, the pretty and dashing
widow was unanimously voted the belle of the evening,
but a young and charming Gitana, attired in white and
gold, looked bewitchingly handsome. Dancing was
continued until an early hour in the morning. The
elite of the district were present.
The first of the Winter series of Assembly Balls
at Burwood took place on the 6th, at the School of Arts.
The attendance was very large, about 160 being present.
Burwood has long been noted for the splendid appear-
ance it makes on such occasions, and the event of last
week was certainly no exception to the general rule.
In addition to the grand display of local beauty and
fashion, there were several ladies from the other
suburbs, from Sydney, and from the country districts.
It was pretty generally conceded, though there was
great difficulty in making any distinction, that a lady
from Tam worth was the belle of the evening.
Tot homines , tot sententice ; but in this instance
it should perhaps have been said fof femince, as it more
concerns ladies, the subject being that of worship at
the altar of Juno. So much space has recently been
devpted to critical details of some late wedding cere-
monies and their surroundings by some of the papers
that it is refreshing to have to chronicle that the sur-
roundings of the ceremony which united Miss Amy Cox
(daughter of the Hon. G. H. Cox) to Mr. Reginald Lowe,
on May 2nd, a 4 St. John’s, Mndgee, wore the charm of
simplicity and taste. There was no gorgeous display of
colour, and there were no intricate pieces of machinery
in the millinery art to describe. The colours were few
and simple but harmoniously blended, and the whole
formed a picture in which no fault could be found.
That the affair was quiet and simple, was at the request
of the votary himself, is a fact worth mentioning.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Dillon, M.P., Land Leaguer, arrested.
Mr. Gladstone is in rather feeble health.
Conservative attack on the Irish Land Bill.
Comprehensive political reforms projected in
Russia.
Kinsale, Kilkenny and Cork proclaimed under
the Coercion Act.
Numerous enforced evictions throughout Ire-
land. Frequent riots.
Box of powder exploded outside Chester
Barracks. No arrests.
The Marquis of Salisbury has been chosen
leader of the Conservative party.
British imports decreased last month
millions, and the exports millions.
Defence of Colonial possessions to be con-
sidered by the English Royal Commission.
The Archduke Rudoff, the Austrian Crown
Prince, has been married to Princess Stephanie of
Belgium.
Political crisis at Capetown. Sir Hercules
Robinson entrusted Mr. Scanlan with the formation of
a new Ministry.
Mr. John Bright states, in a letter on Irish
affairs, that Irish labourers are better off than
English labourers.
Mr. Charles Bradlaugh has issued a manifesto
to his constituents, protesting against his exclusion
from the House of Commons.
The French Government warn the Sultan of
Turkey that the despatch of Turkish troops to Tunis
will be treated as a casus belli.
Earl Dufferin succeeds Mr. Goschen as British
Ambassador at Constantinople, and Sir Edward Thorn-
ton succeeds the Earl at St. Petersburg.
H.M.S. Doterel, six guns, 1137 tons, has been
blown up in the Straits of Magellan. All hands, ex-
cepting Commander Evans and ten men, were killed.
Professor Anderson and the Sydney Wits.
By the unanimous desire of Professor Anderson’s
big audience at the School of Arts the other
evening the editor of The Bulletin was
selected to decide as to the merits of the various
conundrums submitted in competition for the gold
watch offered by the Professor. We have there-
fore, during the past week, had to wade through
about 800 lovely specimens of the handwriting of
colonial youth; and now, having done so, we
find that we cannot say which is the “best”
conundrum out of those sent in. Many of the
productions in question, owing to the unpractised
caligraphy of the authors, are indeed riddles to
us. The least bad of the lot, however, in our
humble opinion, are those appended. And, by
the way, had we not been piously brought up—
had we not, too, recently received as presents
a large number of gold watches, libel writs, and
other costly articles—we might have been sorely
tempted to “go” for the talented Professor’s
“ Eodanow,” and give the decision in our own
favour. We are sorry that the Professor’s liber-
ality in the horse and watch line has not met with
a more flattering response from the world of wit.
Let the Professor offer coffins, instead of
watches, in future, and we’ll undertake to fill
them if the recipients will kindly waltz round
to this office with their cherry-cases under
their arms. We would recommend that, in
future, all conundrums like those to hand be
advertised in the fatal accident column of some
religious newspaper. Now for the riddles :
First: Why does the Government of this colony
at the present time resemble an over-crowded
crockery shop ? —Because they have allowed in
too many China mugs, and it may end in a
smash in the Cabinet.
Second: Why is news received by the telegraph
cable like the female intellect P —Because it is
far ahead of the male fmailj intelligence.
Third : Why is the watch like the receiver? —
Because they both “ go ” at the wind-up. #
Fourth : Why do the patrons of Professor An-
derson’s entertainment resemble Pastor Allen ?
—Because they both study the profits
(prophets).f
The population of Sydney city, according to the
census is 102,803; and of Sydney and suburbs 222,133.
n iif- ten - Tears the city increased rather more than
MMhud, The suburbs have increased from 60,324 in
871 to 119,330 in 1881— the increase being just within a
racnon of 98 per cent.
* No reflection intended on the Professor’s prize
horse.—[Ed. B,]
t This is intended as a sop to the gods and a tribute
to our old friend.— [Ed, B.]
POLITICAL POINTS.
The Hon. J. F. Burns has been well received
by his constituents at Lochinvar.
Messrs. Buick, Spence. Rankine, Tarlton, Pick-
ering, and Sir Henry Ayers have been elected to the
S. A. Legislative Council.
New Zealand revenue returns for the year are :
—Customs, £1,307,000; stamps, £142,700; deeds, regis-
try, &0., £38,700; postal, £151,000; telegraphs, £72,000;
judicial, £57,000; railways, £840,000.
One of the neatest political tricks ever perpe-
trated in this country, and the one best showing the
gratitude of Sir Henry Parkes is that Ashfleld land
affair. Ashfleld was the constituency that pulled Sir
Henry out of the political gutter into which he was
kicked by a disgusted people at East Sydney. There
are thirty acres of land at Ashfleld, which would make
a splendid domain for the people. Sir Henry is inter-
viewed; he plays with the deputation, tells them he’ll
let them know. What they learn a few days later is
that Mr. Jamieson has purchased the whole block.
Warrnambool Winter Steeplechase
Meeting.
(BY WIRE.)
Warmambool, Wednesday.
The Warmambool meeting commenced to-day. The
attendance was fair, the weather fine, and the racing
good. The Maiden Plate was won easily by Rutledge’s
Spanish Girl, J. Henry’s Blue Peter 2, Tozer’s Lady
Hampden 3. Nine started.
Maiden Steeplechase: Sparkle, the winner, was the
onlylhorse that got round without a mistake; Colling-
wood 2, Coastguard 3.
Handicap Hurdle Race of £l5O. Loughlin’s King of
Trumps, admirably ridden by Corrigan won easily.
Forest King was scratched, Norma was second, and
Fire King third.
Flying Stakes : Ross’s Rhea 1, Whitehead’s Star 2.
Selling Hurdles : Bex’s Devlin won easily.
Mr. George R. Dibbs.
Man is the creature of circumstances, according
to the philosophic dictum of the late George Combes
—and, although neither the latter nor his numerous
disciples would probably go so far as to assert
that, in particular cases, individuals cannot burst
through their surroundings and save themselves
from ordeals of reproach and humiliation, it is
perfectly true that great, though not insurmount-
able, difficulties often beset the career of the high-
minded and intellectually-gifted. There were noble
Montagues and Capnlets in mediaeval days, not-
withstanding their family feuds ; and no doubt
hundreds suffered from the faults of others besides
that charming pair for ever haloed with the tender
lights and soft purple shadows of Shakspeare’s
genius. We have long looked upon Mr. G. R. Dibbs
as somewhat the victim of a cruel fate—a caprici-
ous and intangible combination of events —which
he could neither rend, as did the mighty captain
who cut the Gordian knot, nor obtain a subtle
clue to lead him out of their entanglement, like
that which saved the explorer of the labyrinth of
Crete. George R. Dibbs’ career is marked with
the strong lights of more than ordinary intelli-
gence, with the gleams of mental ability and
artistic power, which only required time and
opportunity to develope, and an energy which
even the turmoils of a troubled life could
not overcome. But all these gifts are
over-shadowed by these domestic misfortunes
about which the public have learnt too much.
Mr. Dibbs is active, but not cool, —courage-
ous, but perhaps somewhat insufficiently self-
contained. He was born in Sydney, on the 12th
October, 1831, and is consequently in the forty-
seventh year of his age. His father, Captain
John Dibbs, was just the kind of man to value a
thorough practical education, and he consequently
placed his sons under the tuition of Mr. Horniman
at the Australian College. Young Dibbs had
previously imbibed at St. Philip’s School those
principles which through life have attached him
so strongly to the Church of England. On the
completion of his fourteenth year he left school
and entered the offices of Messrs. Brown and Co.,
wine and spirit merchants, where his tact and
ability were soon appreciated; but his mind was
too active for small mercantile pursuits ; he began
to dream, in his teens, of huge commercial trans-
actions, which would not only benefit himself, but
the land of his birth. After a few years’ engage-
ment with Messrs. Robey and Co., sugar-refiners,
he commenced business at Newcastle on his own
account, which he conducted for five or six years
with signal success, and then returned to Sydney to
extend operations. In the year 1865 his impulsive or
speculating spirit induced him to proceed to
Valparaiso to superintend some large wheat and
flour transactions. It was during this expedition
that he devoted a portion of his leisure time to
literature, dealing with the events of the war in a
vigorous realistic style. These contributions
appeared in several Australian journals, and were
always read with interest. Mr. Dibbs thrice ran
the blockade successfully into South American
ports, and after various journeys through different
parts of America, reached Panama in 1866, to
learn that a series of adverse occurences had
jeopardised his business in Sydney. He bravely
returned here to meet the crisis face to face, and
effected a composition with his creditors (10s. in
the J 5); but within five years after that occurrence
it was his pride as well as his privilege to pay the
remaining portion of their claims to the last
farthing. At the general election in 1873, he was
returned second on the poll for West Sydney, and
took up an independent position in the House of
Assembly. He was, however, defeated in 1876,
in consequence of his anti-popular views on
Free-trade and Immigration. He had the
heroism to frankly avow his convictions
throughout his candidature. We shrink
from scrutinising the portion of his private
life which has been brought so prominently
before the public. The very qualities
that go to make a man self-sustained and conscious
of his own worth very often mar domestic happi-
ness, and convert the typical paterfamilias into
the austere parent or autocratic husband. What-
ever Mr. G. R. Dibbs* errors of judgment or
temper may have been, he has suffered for them;
and the fact that he did not flinch from twelve
months’ imprisonment, in vindication of the
opinions he assumed at the outset of those pro-
ceedings with which the public are acquainted,
proves his courage and determination. Mr. Dibbs
was “enlarged” on the 6th instant, and will
doubtless soon occupy that position in the mer-
cantile world for which he is so well qualified. He
is probably a “ sadder ” man to-day than he was
a year ago, and perhaps a “ wiser,” too; but in
whatever direction he applies his talents, he is
likely to succeed. His characteristic resoluteness
of mind and adherence to principle cannot be long
ignored by the people who admire energy, tact,
and ability as the cardinal social and political
virtues.


BRIEF MENTION.
The Hekka informs ns that “ Ouida” is dead.
So is Queen Anne, poor thing.
Business is improving in New Zealand. Only
one fire telegraphed this week.
The “ Convener of Committees on Religion and
Morals” is the Bev. John Auld, of Ashfleld.
Charity begins at home, and, like the Pilgrim
Fathers on Plymouth Bock, “ stays thar.” That
money.
They have opened a bank at Waverley since the
tram began running. For the benefit of the ticket-
collectors, eh ?
A religious print remarks : “We are worth to
society the happiness we are capable of imparting.”
We should say so, too.
Not one of the religions editors has been asked
to join the Press Club, though several have offered to
do the duties of chaplain.
The “ vision of Knock,” as seen by various
pious persons, still affords matter for the credulous
conductors of the Weekly Mickey.
The Distress ignored the bazaar at Quean-
beyan in aid of the St. Benedict’s Convent. Although
the report was sent, Dean Lenny would have nun of it.
The Austrian Band, on their return from
Brisbane, for which port they leave Sydney on the 20th,
will play at a return fancy dress ball in the Garden
Palace. »
One of oar religious contemporaries writes :
“ Give up many things before you give up your religious
newspaper.” Yes, give up many things—give up
drinking.
We are glad to be able to state that the John
Eobertson who died the other day was not Jack Eobert-
son. We are still more glad that it was no one else of
the surname.
There are about three thousand lunatics in New
South Wales. This, of course, is the number confined
in asylums, and does not include those on the religious
press in this city.
There is a pretty general belief abroad that a
certain well-known reverend polemical writer has
given up Hell, and taken a neat little bit of property
near the Exhibition.
The Y.M.C.A.’s “ horgan,” Monthly Notes,
acknowledges with thanks the subscriptions received
during the past month—£l 17s. We wonder what it
would cost to buy in P
The tombstone of a late George-street restau-
rant keeper bears this legend—" Blessed are they which
hunger and thirst after righteousness’ sake, for they
shall be filled.” Fact.
Jack Thompson was thrown from his horse on
the last day of the Bathurst races. John was pitched
right upon his head. This is fortunate. He might
otherwise have been seriously injured.
The Presbyterian says : “ It is right to go to
any social gathering where we can take Christ with us."
This explains why we have very rarely seen our
reverend editors at social gatherings.
Messrs. Reveillands and Dodds have collected in
America, we are told, £2500 for the conversion of France.
This sum, we find, is just one-third the amount required
recently to convert one Polish Jew in London.
A genius named Levi Bishop has petitioned the
Michigan Legislature to pass a law that all physicians,
before receiving authority to practise, shall bequeath
their bodies to a medical college for dissection.
Our sporting contemporary, the Presbyterian,
asks, in its last issue, “ What is Truth P” We’ve asked
this question many times ourselves—“ What is Ter-
reuth ?” and have never got a satisfactory answer.
The residents of Pyrmont have awakened to the
fact that it is high time their bridge was purchased by
Government, and made free ? Why do not they go in
for the extension of the tramway Pyrmont-wards ?
“ I set my face against it,” said a Domain
ecclesiastic, speaking, the other day, of an obnoxious
pub. in the vicinity of his * manse ’ " “ Then I suppose
the building is no longer standing,” remarked a by-
stander.
Another joke from the religious papers “ The
great mistake made by many who have determined to
lead virtuous lives is that they want their pay in ad-
vance.” We’re afraid this idea is not confined to
secular editors.
It is stud that Wr. Berry, while being shown
round the Working Miners’ claim, Homebnsh, asked if
Mr. Williams (the manager) had any of the gold from
the mine to show him. “No,” replied Mr. Williams,
“ I took the precaution of sending it all away before
you came.”
“ Short, but suggestive, this telegram in Wed-
nesday’s South Australian Advertiser * The
Government having ordered the Adelaide Central Police
Court to be cleaned, two cartloads of filth were re-
moved.’” This is from a Northern paper. Who’s
inebriated ?
The Newcastle Amateurs produce “ Pinafore ”
at the Victoria Theatre on the Queen’s Birthday. They
have been rehearsing for two months. The local oleo-
margarine wrap is so enthusiastic about the affair that
we strongly expect either the editor or the hired man is
to play Sir Joseph.
So “ there’s a woman at the bottom of it,” after
all the fuss. Says a writer in one of the London
weeklies:—“ King Charles Stewart I. of Ireland is about
to take unto himself a queen. Parnell goetb to Paris,
not to conspire, but to court. At least, so rumour has
it. It is satisfactory to know that these frequent trips
across the Channel are transits of Venus, and not of
Mars.”
Says the evening reprint of our morning con-
temporary “ Mr. J. A. Fairfax has presented to the
Australian Museum a number of mitrailleuse, needle-
gun, and Chassepot bullets (used in the Franco-German
war of 1870-71) which he found on the field of Grave-
lotte, near Metz. One of the chassepot rifle bullets
was stained with blood.” Be-lud ! Be-lud ! Won-der-
ful man!
Francis George Campbell, of the N.Z. Free
Lance, has "turned his toes up." His editor thus
mourns for his loss :
" A tribute —although it may feeble appear—
We think to his memory due.
For while he endeavoured the public to please,
Much sorrow and trouble he knew.”
We read something of this kind, a few months ago, in
the Baebbnjoey Buster on the death of the local
sexton.
Doyle, the late Charters Towers Town Clerk,
who has been acquitted of embezzlement, has taken a
partner, and started in the produce line. This is worm-
wood to the Towers Herald, while the Northern
Miner is proportionately jubilant. Thaddy will be in
the next Queensland Parliament—if he’s not in gaol for
libel. Hely is a “ hot member,” and the-result of the
action is doubtful. We wish the warlike Thadeus may
get out of it, and if he pulls through, we will treat
Judge Hely to a trope—a poetical flower of the most
blooming kind—in short, a heliotrope. At last, we’ye
done it. Queensland Punch please copy.
It is related that, during a certain festive
gathering of the citizens of a town up North, one of our
meet prominent legislators had the misfortune to be
seated next door to a Huguenot gentleman, who under-
stood about as much of the English language as
Governor Bourke’s old rusty, musty statue does. “ Say,
Mr. Thingumbob,” remarked the politican to the
Parisian, as both “planted" their fluids with evident
satisfaction, " that’s foine wine, isn't it ? bites all the
way down like blazes; what’s the name ? what d'y call
it ?” “ A votre sanU, Monsieur," replied the Huguenot.
“ Songs!” returned the politician. “ Oh, yes, any
amount of yelping by-and-bye ; sing yon .one myself if
you like, but what kind of wine do you call this ? Give
it a name ” (Test extpiis. Monsieur,” said vhe smiling
frog-devourer. “ Exkeyisit,” replied the northern law-
giver. “ Well, look here, yon waiter, bi Ing us two
more bottles of Exkey, and look slippy about it, too.
Mr. , here’s at you again in beer till ve get the
Exkey.” \
The other day, at certain up-country gentlemen’s
“ picnic races," a magistrate’s horse was left out of the
nominations because, it is said, his honest mother-in-
law sells “ wibhons and dwapery." In the words of one
of the amateur turfites, “ What’s the difference when
the papa of one of our membahs advertises * Gy apes for
sale ?’ ”
It was the dying Wolsey, wasn’t it, who ob-
served that he wished he had loved his God as well as
he had served his king ? It was the authors of
“ The Goldin Butterfly” who made a moribund Yankee
say that hevvished he had served his country as well as
he had loved his God. Piety alone doesn’t make a
man a good politician.
The Howl is wrath with several Orangemen
who are members of the Wagga town band because
they played at a recent local Hibernian hop. “In the
name of God,” asks the pious paper, “ when will this
inconsistency cease ?” Now we don’t see any incon-
sistency in the band’s action. We remember having
heard the Wagga musicians, who, we suppose, wanted
to wreak vengeance on their enemies.
In Gympie, a short time ago, the tanks of one
parson ran low, and the price of water ran up to half-a-
crown a cask. At the same time another parson got
up a bazaar to build a parsonage. And it came to pass
that, on one Sunday about the time of the above events,
one parson offered up a prayer for rain, while the other
praised the Lord for the “nice weather we enjoyed,"
and hoped it would continue so. Opposition is the soul
of business.
Writes a correspondent: —“ Intoxicated persons
are not supposed to be allowed to travel by rail. The
other evening an inebriated female arrived at Newtown
from Sydney by train. Not satisfied with abusing the
guard in a most indecent manner, she went to within
100 yards of the police court, and there indulged in
obscene language for half-an-hour to the intense delight
of the larrikins. Surely the police can find time to
visit one of the most important suburban stations
when the night trains come in."
The Tamwoeth News, in the meeting re the
widening of Oxford-street scare, says : —“ The Davies’
Liberals —shopmen, jobmen, butcher-lads, and a mis-
cellaneous assortment of larrikins—refused to hear
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald last evening in opposition to
the new movement of the ’ring.’ Vive the tyrant
Mob!”
They gave you, poor boy, fits;
They howled you down, Fitzgerald ;
They wouldn’t let you, Fitz.,
Be reported in the Herald !
It was a cruel thing—
A man, too, of your kidney! —
Almost as harrowing
As that sell at South Sydney.
For several weeks past now we’ve not said one
word for the Wesleyans. We’re here, however, to-day
with good news. The Bev. Messrs. Inskip and Gardiner
have arrived to worry the devil for a fortnight in York-
street church. The betting is two to one on the demon,
and a piece of plate for the winner. For ourselves, we
go for Boberto, who has pulled off all the prizes in the
tussles we've had with him; but, before making any
wager, we should like to know whether the contest is a
genuine one—whether, in fact, there’s not some under-
standing between the competitors.
Time: 6 p.m , on Sunday. Place: The awful
“ corner," Parramatta (within twenty yards of the
lock-up door), where itinerant preacher and
assistants have free-selected in the rain. Itinerant has
just gone in a “ perisher,” d la Spurgeon, and concludes
thus: “ And now, dear brethern, if you need more
spiritual refreshment, come with us to the chapel."
Thereupon larrikin roars—“ spiritual refreshment be
d——d; if you’ll refresh us wich a Bishop Barker of
Toohey we’ll give you a touch.” This is followed by
an interchange of pious exhortations and rowdyism,
amid which the itinerant party move off.
Here are facta for teetotallers:—“ Mr. Muntz
has discovered alcohol in snow, in rain, and in the
vapour of the air. Was ever anything so disheartening ?
Here has the apostle of anti-alcoholism been living, un-
known to himself, in the very midst of it, drinking it,
breathing it, and being wetted by it—one long horrible
debauch, with not even the consolation of being able te
leave it and find sobriety : for that cruel scientist, Mr.
Muntz, declares that there is a good deal of alcohol in
the ground. “ Even poor soil gives the iodoform reac-
tion when only 100 or 200 grammes are operated with,
while mould and earth rich in organic matters contain
the substance in considerable quantity."
Here is a nice little paraphrase, kindly sent by a
man who, while standing on his balcony in Macquarie-
street, one night last session, heard the only M’Elbone
“ rise to order ” in the Assembly :
The whoop of a Zulu, the shriek of a shell,
A cat’s chorus in conference meeting.
Are music compared to the agonised yell
Of rage and derision—his greeting.
You go home to your bed
With a pain in your head.
By your pillow stands nightmare a warder.
Your sleep is blight,
Your rest taken flight;
Your breathing is tight;
You scratch and you bite.
Or yon wake up with affright
As yon dream through the night
That M'Elhone rises to order.
They had an agricultural show at Narrabri the
other day. A legal celebrity from Sydney astonished
the natives by remarking, with reference to a young
bull exhibited by Mr. A. J. Doyle, of Killarney, “ By
Jove, that er-er is a very tine —er-er cow, is it not ?”
Everybody, of course, thought that the bull was a first-
class one.
The following is on a board in a paddock at
the corner of Holt and Cavendish-streets, Stanmore,
resumed by Government for public school purposes :
“ Notice. —Any person removing fencing or turf or
depositing rubbish upon or otherwise trespassing on
this land will be prosecuted.—By order of the Mlnester
of Public Instruction."
The Hekker, as we anticipated, is veering
round in M’Bealh’s favor. It says re the historic
plaster.- —“ Of course it will be easy to turn round upon
the late architect aud the late contractors, &o ” Well,
it is about time that the public rounded upon these
persons, when the work they respectively passed and
executed, had rounded upon them already. Why, on
earth, don’t the Echo people take a holiday P
A celebrated impreasario from the south-east is
now on a visit to Sydney, for the purpose, he says, of
engaging a first-class company to travel round from
Cooreenyrangacumboobila to the sea. Beally good
artistes, we are told, can always command from him
from five to six shillings a week for certain, with half
board paid. We understand that gentlemen who can
milk cows and have no objection to carrying luggage
trunks have the preference.
The theatre is doomed. The poor-player’s
occupation is gone, and the man who beats the big
drum in the orchestra will now have, like Mr. Joseph
Ogg, to “ wallop carpets for his livin’.” In short, the
C. of E. Becjrd has issued a ukase to the effect that
“ crime is in theatres oft represented in all its details
for mere amusement Let our young men
who are tempted to seek these amusements at the
theatre, pause before they betake themselves to a
school where such lessons are taught.”
Mr. T. J. O’Brien, on leaving Carooar, was
entertained at a banquet, and in reference to that
gentleman, the Chronicle states;—“We can beat ex-
press the wishes of those Mr. O’Brien has left behind,
by quoting the following very appropriate lines given
to him at Lyndhurst;—
Farewell! it is a pensive word,
Yet I must say farewell;
But, if my fervent wish be heard.
Thou wil’t in safety dwell.”
We understand that before the number of the
Chronicle came out that contained this effusion, Mr.
O’Brien was in great grief at his approaching departure,
but on reading the editor’s poetry, he at once became
resigned to his fate.
The Y.M.C. A.’s Monthly Notes has an article
which commences in this style: “My Brother,--Is it well
with thee?" Well, in the truest, deepest sense of the
word. Standing on the shores of eternity, we look off
across that vast expanse. Turning round we see you
hurrying on towards that great ‘for ever.’” Well,
brother, not very well. You see, the Monthly Notes
only comes out once every four weeks, and that is
hardly often enough to complete our salvation. We
are afraid it’s a cooker with us, and that the "great
forever” yawns for us. Stay, though. Would there
be any chance for us if we subscribed for a year in
advance, and put an ad. in the back page P
The cartoon in the current number of Mel-
bourne Punch represents Berry, Longmore, and
O'Loghlen looking into a sty, wherein rests, with its
fore feet on a scroll labelled “Education Act Inquiry,”
a very big pig bearing the ecclesiastical brand and
possessing the well-known features of Sir John O’Shan-
nassy. Jerry (loq.): “Buy him, and take him out of
that, is it ? Shure ? And not if Oi know it. It suits
me little game to let you kape him, me bhoys! ” O’L.
{to smiler, otherwise Longmore); “Well, well; here’s a
pretty go ? We can't sell him, and we can’t swop him.
Ue eats up all our chances, and won’t even get into
a pound. Blest if ever I knew such an awkward
animal! ”
“ Kate Kelly is a passenger for England by the
next mail steamer. She is under engagement to a
wax-work company.”
Adieu, sweet Kate, if thou must thus depart—
Adieu! —we say it with a heavy heart.
For thou hast been a godsend to the press
For many a month, thou sweet bushranger-ess!
And yet to think thou must e’en sail away
Without a testimonial, sweet fay!
Why don't the editors all club and buy
Two emu eggs like Goodman’s ? Oh, we sigh
To think that thou should’st leave this land
Without two “vorses” or a liqueur-stand.
If thou had’st given us earlier the tip.
We’d by Wild Wright have sent a riding-whip.
Took round the hat to Alfred, he’d be willing
At any time to “ start it with a shilling.”
The Lyre “ took well ” in those days that sang
The boys, “ Full 'ticklers of the Kelly Gang.”
But yet 'tis not to be —O sprightly Kate,
So long the pillar of the fourth estate.
We wish thee well, and trust that, o’er the sea,
ThouTt “knock" the public, make the wax-works
“gee;”
And if important news thou e’er hast some
1 Just wire promptly to the Morning Bum,
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
There are 50,000 Protestant converts in China.
The health of the Eev. Dr. Fullerton is im-
proving.
Instrumental music is given in the Knox Church,
Dunedin.
A number of Mormons left N.Z. for America by
last mail steamer.
The members of religious orders expelled from
Prance number 2350.
The Hibernian Bible Society has distributed 4 j
million Bibles in Ireland.
The Methodists are fighting actively against
Mormonlsm at Salt Lake.
A fire at the E. C. church, Wellington (N.Z.),
did £4OO worth of damage.
The Wesleyan Thanksgiving Fund in London
has reached to near £300,000.
The English penny Testament is selling at the
rate of one million copies a year.
In Washington, U.S., the Baptists have 33
churches for 4000 coloured people.
There were to be 81 representatives at the Ade-
laide Wesleyan general conferanoe.
The Baptist Churches in London are one-half
more numerous than they were twenty years ago.
It is stated that there are 3,000,000 Presbyterians
in Scotland and America, and 18,000,000 in Germany,
The new R. C. cathedral at Christchurch (N.Z.)
will be opened for service on the 10th of August next.
The Rev. Mr. Alkin, of Campbelltown is instruct-
ing the yonthful portion of his congregation in the flora
and fauna of Australia.
It is now pretty authoritatively stated that the
Eev. Mr. Jefferis will return to the colony, and to Pitt-
street, with very advanced opinions.
The attendances at St. Andrew’s Cathedral are
increasing every Sunday. Soon the Cathedral will be
the leading Church of the colony in this regard.
The other day a clergyman who was about to
leave a southern town, assigned as the reason for his
departure that there was “ too much Godlessness" in
the district 1
It was a noticeable fact at the Anglican bazaar
held at Narrabri last week, that the hardest workers
and proprietors of the best stalls were of the Jewish
persuasion.
The special evangelistic services held recently
at St. Stephen’s Presbyterian Church in this city were
very largely attended. The Rev. Dr. Steel delivered
several stirring addresses.
Says the Catholic Presbyterian :—“ When
the authorised Version was prepared there were only
five or six millions to read it, now the English speaking
population is about a hundred millions. Such is the
mission of the revised Version !**
It seems that we were in error the other day in
attributing the Evening News’ heterodox article to a
Presbyterian clergyman. The gentleman referred to,
we now know, does not sympathize with the views
which were so tartly condemned by one of the clerical
organs.
King Mtesa, of Central Africa, is said to have
embraced Mahommedanism and has ceased to hoist a
flag and Are a gun on Sunday, as he did when favour-
able to Christianity. The darned old Sabbath-breaker
once more bows downs before his original Mumbo-
Jumbe.
The Cumberland Presbyterians, who were ex-
cluded from the Pan-Presbyterian Council at Phila-
delphia, hold—lst, that there are no eternal repro-
bates ; 2nd, that Christ died for all mankind; 3rd, that
all infants dying are saved; and, 4th, that the Spirit
works among all men.
On 3rd May, at Bourke-street Congregational
Church, Mr. George Heighway was ordained as a Con-
gregations 1 minister. The Eev. Thomas Johnson pre-
sided at the service, which was numerously attended,
Mr. Heighway has since accepted a call from the West
Maitland congregation.
Telephonic communication has been established
between some of the principal Edinburgh churches
and the residences of wealthy elderly people who are
unable to attend church. Sonnding boards are placed
near the pulpit and choir, and every word and note
is conveyed distinctly a distance of three miles.
The Bishop of Manchester, preaching at Bolton
recently, said that fasting was not only a means of
spiritual discipline but of spiritual power, nor could
it be denied that it found a place in the Gospel—where it
was not forbidden but encouraged, though the spirit in
which it should be undertaken was carefully defined.
In a playful little article, entitled “ The Devil
at Ashfield," published on the 9th April, we introduced
the name of the Eev. George Machines, 8.D., of St.
David's, Ashfield. We have since learned that this
gentleman was in no way connected with the meetings
to which the article referred. The evangelist who con-
ducted the revival services in question was the Eev.
John M'Neil, B.A.
Writes a correspondent:—“ The Rev. Gaultier
Soares (late of Gegedzerickl has taken charge of the
Adelong parish (Anglican) in place of the Eevd. Mr.
White, who went to Germanton. The Eev. G. S. is one
of the right sort, and has already won the hearts of the
people about the district. By the way he is no mean
judge of a horse or a dog (in fact, he has not many
equals), and more power to him for it.
The Melbourne “Strong” contention supplied
Mr. Charles Bright with his theme for last Sunday
evening at the Theatre Eoyal, and the lecture was
listened to with marked attention by a very large and
■respectable audience. The preliminary reading was
taken from the volume of heretical “ Scotch sermons,”
which, issued only last year, has already run through
several editions. Mr. Bright is to review this work
next Sunday evening in a lecture entitled “Scotch
Calvinism Collapsing."
The beat use you can put a minister of the
Gospel to, now-a-days, is to place him on trial, charged
with some scandalous offence. As a consequence of
Theodore Tilton’s having brought Beecher to the bar,
his congregation increased the reverend’s salary ; and
now that Talmage has been acquitted of the charge of
deceit and falsehood, the trustees of the Brooklyn
Tabernacle have voted to raise his wages from seven to
twelve thousand dollars a year Who is the next
divine to be made a martyr of in this way ?
Mr. M. A. Rapken, treasurer of the Orthordox
Hebrew Congregation, received a telegram last Sunday
morning announcing the arrival, per Orient steamer
Potosi, at Adelaide, of the Rev. A. D. Wolinski, the
gentleman who was recently elected minister of the
congregation. Mr. Wolinski comes direct from the
great Synagogue, Leeds, where he has been for some
years filling the position of head minister. The ap-
pointment was effected through Dr. Adler, chief Rabbi
of Great Britain. Mr. Wolinski is accredited with
testimonials from the most eminent Eabbis and Doctors
in Europe.
The most ambiguous compliment that we have
heard of is that tendered at the Macleay to a departing
clergyman. “ The Eev. Mr. Gray (Wesleyan) on leaving
the district to join the Church of England, received a
praise from his friends and well-wishers." Did the
Wesleyans give him the testimonial in joy at his
leaving them to join the Anglicans ; or did the latter
subscribe the money as a dab at the rival church r
Whatever the explanation, however, the fact of Mr.
Gray’s joining the Church of England proves the cor-
rectness of the Eev. Dr. Kelynack’s words, that many
of their ministers did not consider the Wesleyan Church
“respectable” enough, and left it whenever an Anglican
vacancy presented itself.
No painter has ever yet been able to catch the
wild expectant look of a man who is endeavouring to
give birth to a sneeze.
Little girl: “ I shall be a duchess when 1 grow’
np, I shall I” Aunt; “ How will that be ?” Little
girl: “ Oh, I shall marry a Dutchman.”
At the Cape of Good Hope, the other day, Mr.
Simon Goodman and Miss Alice Goodwin were marrie
Rev, Theodore Goodfellow oftciating. Good enough.
TAKEN IN THE BEAR.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
The East Sydney Football Club now numbers
eighty members.
The Ballarat Turf Club Meeting has been fixed
for the 11th August.
The cricket season, as regarding the principal
clubs, is now virtually closed.
It is the .ambition of Wheatear’s owner to win
he Melbourne Cup with him.
Totalisator was heavily backed at 100 to 15 to
win the Adelaide Cup—and he did.
Othello pulled up dead lame in the race for the
Warwick Handicap, on Wednesday.
The Alpha Frisquette Club opened the season
on Saturday last with a scratch match.
The entries are numerous for the various events
of the forthcoming Parramatta meeting.
Progress and Savanaka left for Adelaide bn
Saturday to take part in the race meeting.
The turf certainly wants purging in NZ. Scan-
dals of some kind occur at nearly every meeting.
Edwards succeeded at Gawler (S.A.) in covering
116 miles in five minutes under the 24 hours on Satur-
day.
Mr. W. Pitt, of Melbourne, acted as judge at
the coursing meeting, and gave every satisfaction. Cun-
liffe acted as slipper.
Albert White has agreed to scull Heame, for
£ 100 aside and the Championship of New Zealand, at
Wellington on July 25th.
Mr. George Lee allowed the New South Wales
Coursing Club the use of his grounds at Leeholme for
the late Autumn Meeting.
There was some heavy betting over the Christ-
church Autumn races—more, in fact, than ever took
place at the same meeting for years.
A. C. Logan surprised the knowing ones on
Saturday at Hunter’s Hill, by defeating the favourites
in his two races with consummate ease.
W. C. Eush will have to look to his laurels next
Saturday at the Association Ground. The other “boys”
are coming on, and he is at a standstill.
On Friday, the last day of the Bathurst cours-
sing meeting, though the best dogs took part in the
deciding heats, only one hare was killed.
The Auckland Stab thinks an instrument
like the totalisator, in such disfavour with “ the ring,”
cannot be a bad thing for the outside public.
Footballers are getting into practice. That
triangular piece of ground near Moore Park is now the
nightly resort of some of the champion kickists.
Hanlan has issued a challenge to row any man
in the world for any amount! up to'§lo,ooo, and beat him
15sec. The face to be rowed at Toronto, Canada.
Our correspondent says that the racing at the
Autumn meeting of the Canterbury Club was splendid,
and acknowledged to be some of the best ever seen on
the course.
Libeller won the Flying Handicap, with Lady
Emma second', at the Christchurch meeting, and
Billingsgate the Selling Race, with old Fishhook second
Luna third.
The bowling match, Victoria v. King’s School
players, was simply a repetition of the Intercolonial
match, nearly all the players in the latter taking part
in the former.
Mr. Walters’ Yattendon-Peeress colt (dropped
in Sydney) could get no nearer than second at the
Christchurch meeting. Started in two events with
warm opponents.
F. Fligg, who has been training on the Eastern
Cricket Ground for the past two months, has gone back
on his backers, and will not start on Saturday. Higgins
is the cause of it.
Foul Play had revenge on the second day of the
Auckland Autumn meeting, by winning the Autumn
Handicap (event of the day), and The Shorts, carrying
9st. 51b. in each event.
Sir George (the Wanganui Cup winner) secured
the Flying Stakes at the Auckland autumn meeting;
the Australian mare, Maid of Honour, being second,
and Hippocampus third.
The coursing season is about to commence in
N.Z. Twenty nominations have been received for the
Canterbury Coursing Club’s Derby Stakes, and twenty-
two for the Oaks Stakes.
The deciding course for the Bathurst Cup was
between Lelex and Terror. The hare gave them a good
run, and the dogs were treated to a gruelling long
course after the judge had decided.
The Jockey Club Meeting at Normanton is to
be held on the 6th and 7th July. The races include a
Town Plate of 50 sovs., and Grand Handicap of 100
govs. The entries close on June 21.
The Mayor has intimated to the New South
Wales Bowing Association his intention to supplement
his gift of the medals to the winning crew by a chal-
lenge prize for junior oarsmen in outriggers.
Certain Auckland (N.Z.) bookmakers, who have
no right to the title, style themselves on their cards
“Members of the Sydney Tattersall’s.” This little
matter might be looked up by the committee.
The following is the result of the One Thousand
Guinea Stakes, run for at Newmarket en the 6th inst.: —
Mr. W. S. Crawford’s Thebais 1, The Duke of West-
minster’s Thom 2, Lord Falmouth’s Bal Gal 3.
There is a P. E. revival in England. “ Pen-
dragon” publishes in the Referee of Sunday, 6th
March, a four-column article on the recent fight
between the feather-weights Monk and Young.
There was great rejoicing in Maoriland over Sir
Hercules Robinson’s mare. Lady Emma, winning the
double event at the Christchurch autumn meeting—
Great Autumn Handicap and Easter Handicap.
Menser’s consultation on the Parramatta Han-
dicap on Queen’s Birthday is being rapidly filled up. A
committee of gentlemen have kindly consented to
superintend the drawing in the interests of the ticket
holders.
The Bishop of Manchester, at a recent meeting,
said one of the best sentiments in Lord Beaconsfleld’s
“ Endymion ” had reference to horse-racing, which it
described as the most demoralising pastime practised
in England. l
The third meeting of the Windsor Grammar
School Amateur Athletic Club took place at Fairfield
on Saturday last. The various events were well con-
tested in the prefence of a large and fashionable
attendance. '
The Eowing Association intend at their next
committee meeting to consider the feasibility of re-
moving the venue of the next International contest to
the Nepean should the present harbour regulations
remain in force.
H. H. Lublin, who is entered for several events
next Saturday, did not start in his race at the Hunter’s
Hill sports. Report speaks highly of his running ; the
rough nature of the ground appears to be the reason he
did not start on Saturday.
A fleet of eleven yachts mustered on Saturday
to close the season of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron.
Chowder Bay was the terminus of the opening evolu-
tions, where a cold collation was discussed and con-
gratulatory speeches made.
Trickett’s next match will probably be against
R. W. Boyd, the Tyne sculler, in September next.
Should he be victorious in this, he may next be heard of
in Canada with an intention of retrieving his lost laurels
in another contest with Hanlan.
On settling night of the Christchurch Jockey
Club, the following amounts were paid:— Sir Hercules
Robinson, £508; Mr. H. Driver, £431 125.; Mr. G.
Fraser, £137 155.; Mr. Walters, £l3l 18s.; Hon. W.
Robinson, £119; Mr. J. Chaafe, £57; Mr. J. Bates, £3B;
Mr. Bell, £lO. Total, £1436 ss.
The entries for the Sydney Amateur Athletic
Club sports, to take place on Saturday at the Associa-
tion Cricket Ground, are more numerous than usual,
and considerable interest is felt in pedestrian circles as
to the results of the sprint races.
The deciding race for the Challenge’lCup at
Hunter’s Hill was a very hollow affair. The brothers
F airland were the only starters. S.H. having already
won the trophy once became the absolute winner by his
easy victory over his brother on Saturday.
None of the Sydney members of the Australian
Football Team turned up in Melbourne. Jack Mac,
it is alleged, went down in a drag to meet them at
Sandridge, and was so disappointed that they say he
has not spoken since. Sydney players can’t believe
this.
The Victorian team of bowlers had a pleasant
outing at Sherwood Scrubs, the residence of Mr. Hol-
royd. A match was arranged for them against the
local team (the latter composed of Annandale, Parra-
matta, and King’s School players), andli win was gained
by Victoria by 39 points.
An interesting hand-ball match was lately played
at Oamaru (N.Z.) between Messrs. Crawshaw and
Wheeler, of Dane din, and Keddie and Hannon, of
Oamaru. The latter won by three games out of five.
Some pretty play was shown. A return match will be
played at Dunedin on Queen’s Birthday.
The Australian - bred racehorses, Maid of
Honour, Tim Whiffler, a brown colt by Tattendon out
of Lady Blair (imp.), a Maribymong colt, a filly by
Malta out of The Auk, and the mare Xantippe by
Detractor, once owned by Ned Perkins, are to be sold
by auction at Auckland on the 20th May.
The total amount of stakes paid away in connec-
tion with the recent coursing meeting was £767 —
namely, £420 in the Bathurst Cup, £lOO in the Derby,
£llO in the Oaks, £122 in the Dockairne Stakes, and
£l5 in the Beaten Puppy Stakes. The principal winners
were Messrs. Tooth, Weir, Lamb, and Breathonr.
At the Christchurch (N.Z.) Jockey Club races,
William Deakin, an elderly man, attempted to cross the
running course as the horses in the Hack Eace were
coming in. He was knocked down, and died a few
moments afterwards. At the inquest, the verdict was
“accidental death.” No blame was cast on the jockey.
The results of the events of the New South
Wales Coursing meeting are as follow:—Derby : Mr.
J. Wier’s Windsor; Oaks : Mr. P. A. Lamb’s Linnet;
Bathurst Cup: Mr. E. L. Tooth’s Terror; Dockairne
Stakes = Mr. W. Lamb’s Wyndham; Beaten Puppy
Stakes: Mr. D. Breathour’s Mayflower; Sydney Cup:
Mr. J. Weir’s Windsor,
When the mail left, the sensation in English
athletic circles was the approaching visit of L. E.
Myers, the American amateur “ flyer ” and champion
sprinter of the States. Mr. Lockton, the well-known
English amateur, was, it appears unwilling to meet
Myers—who, it is said, on a good day and a good track,
can always run a quarter-mile in 49sec.
On Wednesday the Victorian football players
were entertained by the Mayor at a picnic down the
harbour. On Thursday Mr. Young entertained
them at Annandale with a day’s sport and a ban-
quet in the evening. The Victorians have expressed
themselves highly delighted with the hospitable and
kindly treatment they have experienced everywhere.
The return match between Trickett and Kirby,
for £lOO aside, was rowed on the 29th ultimo and resulted
in an easy victory by eight lengths for the Australian.
The course was from two boats moored 25 yards apart,
off Codland Beacon, to the Eoyal Pier, Southampton.
Kirby stands sft 6in in hight, and weighs list. He is a
native of Southampton, and is 29 years of age.
It was stated on the invitation cards for the
Hunter’s Hill Athletic Sports that a special steamer
had been secured for the convenience of visitors. This
was thought by many equivalent to a free passage; con-
sequently there was some trouble in collecting the
fares. Some refused to pay —others were not asked;
but the H.H.A.A. club will hear from the steam-boat
proprietor.
A flying match, in connection with the Sydney
Homing Pigeon Society, came off on Saturday, from
Moss Vale to Sydney, a distance of 86 miles. Fourteen
pigeons competed, the winner turning up in Mr. J.
Kellick’s Pirate King, who did the journey in 123
minutes, Mr. Crane’s Brusher was second, in 138
minutes, and Mr. Earnshaw’s bird a good third, half-a-
minute later.
The results of the 2nd and 3rd days’ racing of the
South Australian Jockey Club meeting are as follow:
Maiden Plate —Acrobat 1, King’s Own 2, Cyclone 3.
Nursery Handicap—Moor 1, Henriette 2, Topaz 3.
Adelaide Cup—Totalisator 1, Eothschild 2, Venus 3 ;
time, 3m. 37Jsec. Selling Hurdles —Jack’s the Lad 1,
Veno 2, Encounter 3. All-aged Stakes—Topaz 1, Ee-
sult 2, Camballo 3. Hurdles : Marie 1, Acrobat 2,
Twilight 3. Corinthian Cup : Crystal 1, D.O.D. 2, Venus
3. Steeplechase: Intrepid 1, Sultan 2, Trigger 3. Good-
wood Handicap: D.O.D. 1, Harriet 2, Aiblius 3. South
Australian Jockey Club Handicap : Harriet 1, Blue Eib-
bon 2, Eothschild 3.
Negotiations have already been made for an
Intercolonial football match to take place in Melbourne
during the coming season. The Victorian Association
proposed the 21st of May as the date to be fixed for the
match ; but as that is considered too early for the New
South Wales players to get into form, it is suggested
from New South Wales that the date be altered to
about the 25th June.
The case brought against Hobbs and Goodwin,
proprietor of the totalisator at Christchurch (N.Z.), by
Snider and Drake, bookmakers, was adjourned for a
week. Notwithstanding that Drake and Snider bounce
about the Vagrant Act, £1577 passed through the totali-
sator outside the paddock, and £lO5O through that
inside at the Christchurch meeting. It was also equally
wall patronised at the Timaru and Auckland meetings.
It is probable that a few football mate hes will
be played on the Association Ground during the coming
season. The cricketers are making strong objections
in view of the prospects of good wickets for next season.
One or two matches cannot hurt the ground so long
before the commencement of the cricket season, and
cricketers have to be reminded that the ground was
granted by the Government not solely for cricket but
for recreative purposes generally.
The coming football season will witness a great
struggle for the supremacy of the game under various
rules. Wallaroos stick fast to the Eugby game, Wara-
tahs are wavering between Eugby and the English As-
sociation games, whilst the new East Sydney Club are
endeavouring to assimilate the game here with that in
favor at Melbourne. The game as played by the new
club is certainly the most interesting for spectators;
the public will therefore espouse their cause in the con-
flict.
In the University boat-race, which came off on
the Bth April, Oxford got the start, and led to Hammer-
smith Bridge, when Cambridge with a great spurt came
up level. Passing the bridge, Oxford drew away a
length. Cambridge made successive spurts, and got
within half a length of the leaders at Corney Beach.
Oxford again drew away, and won eventually a grand
race by four lengths in 21m. 51s. The Cambridge crew,
who pulled a game race, were very much distressed at
the finish.
During the race for the Warwick Turf Club
Handicap on Thursday, a series of accidents occurred.
Chorister tripped, and the Duke of Lynne coming upon
him, both rolled together. Sydney was cannoned
against, and the three went down. Chorister had to be
shot at once, and the Duke is not out of danger.
Sydney was unhurt. Dunlop, who rode Chorister, had
his collar-bone broken. Munroe, the rider of the Duke
of Lynne, was rendered insensible for some time, and
Blacklock, the rider of Sydney, was severely shaken.
The annual meeting of the N.S.W. Football
Association was held on Friday. Two intercolonial
matches are to be played this season—one in Sydney,
and one in Melbourne—and one game each succeeding
year in each colony alternately. The following office-
bearers were elected:—President, Mr. P. Sheridan ;
vice-presidents—Messrs. Wynne, Weiss, Toohey, and
Eogers; secretary, Mr. C. W. Beal; treasurer, Mr. J.
Wilkinson; provisional, committee—Messrs. Marshall,
Fordham, Bowen, Powell, Crisp, Phillips, Chambers,
Nash, and Douce.
At a general meeting of the members of the
Eoyal Sydney Yacht Squadron on Thursdny afternoon,
it was intimated that Commodore J. E. Fairfax pro-
posed, on the opening of the yachting season, to hand
the committee £lOO, to be divided into suitable prizes
to be raced for as the committee may deem fit, the
only condition being that the flying start he adopted
and that the entrances be free. The Prince Alfred
Yacht Club is to be invited to co-operate in taking the
necessary steps to inaugurate an annual intercolonial
yachting contest.
The first annual meeting of the East Sydney
Football Club was held on last Wednesday evening.
Twenty-three new members were elected. The fol-
lowing office-bearers were elected: —President, Mr. J.
Davies, M.L.A.; vice-presidents, Mr, Clarke and Dr.
Warren ; treasurer, Mr. W. Marshall; secretary, Mr.
P. L. Weiss; assistant secretary, Mr. J. W. Kettewell;
committee —Messrs. J. Teece, T. Nash, C. Clay, T.
McFarlane, C. Wiseheart, D. Sellett, F. Connah;
selection committee —Messrs. Clay, Nash, Weiss,
Marshall, and Teece.
An unfortunate mistake was made with the
totalisator on Saturday, at the S.A, J.C. races on the
Morphetville course. When the race for the Good-
wood Handicap was over, the machine registered £944
invested, without any backer of the winner, D.O.D,
Shortly after the race a man named Smith produced a
card bearing D.O.D.’s number, proving that he was the
winner of the sweep. He received the prize, the other
backers grumbling considerably. The secretary stated
that the number was registered in the wrong compart-
ment. He has since tendered his resignation.
In the sweep prosecutions at Auckland, the case
against Mr. H. N. Abbott, of the United Service Hotel,
fell through on account of a defective information, no
ticket purchaser’s name being mentioned. The police
said the case would most certainly be brought forward
again, as the Act (which does not apply outside the
Auckland province) stated that lotteries must not be
held. Three similar cases against hotel proprietors
were adjourned. The Auckland public entertain a very
high opinion of Mr. Abbott, all sweeps that have been
got up by him beinglconducted in an honest and straight-
forward manner.
The annual meeting of the University Football
Club was held last Wednesday evening. During last
season the first fifteen played eleven matches, of which
eight were won, three lost, and one drawn. The follow-
ing office bearers were elected :—President, Professor
Liversidge; Vice-President, H. M. Faithful; Honorary
Secretaries, J. A, Flynn, G. C. Addison; General Com-
mittee, Messrs. E. W. G. Mann, F. B. Leigh, A.
Buckland, H. H. Connell, W. Flynn; Selection Com-
mittee, Messrs. E. Ruper, G. Tange, and F. B. Leigh ;
Delegates to the Southern Rugby Union, Messrs. ,W.
Edmunds and G. C. Waldron.
A good deal of heavy betting waa indulged in
by the members of the ring, at Auckland, on the
Sydney Gold Cup. Several of the knowing ones laid
their heads together, and even went to the expense of
cablegrams from Sydney for the purpose of getting the
best of a certain “ Liliputian” book., but unfortunately
for them the information they received did not name
Progress among the likely winners. Several of these
“ knowing ones ” may now be seen with elongated faces,
while the “Liliputian” is all smiles, and contemplates
wintering in Sydney. The Liliputian is Jimmy Poole,
who arrived by the mail steamer.
The results of the events of the Dubbo Jockey
Club meeting are as follows :—First Day.—Opening
Handicap: Jane Avenel 1, Saunterer 2, Drum Major 3.
Mare’s Produce Stakes : Stilton 1, Hebe 2, Vengeance
3. Dubbo Jockey Club Handicap: Hereford Bay 1,
Jester 2, Nancy Lee 3. Selling Race: Pheasant 1, Moni-
tor 2, Shamrock 3. Shorts Handicap : Jane Avenel 1,
Bob Sawyer 2, Partner 3. Second Day—Plying Handi-
cap : Mavourneen 1, Bob Sawyer 2, Partner 3. Prince
of Wales Stakes : Jane Avenel 1. Pheasant 2, Idle Boy
3. Macquarie Plate : Hereford Bay 1, Jester 2, Nancy
Lee 3. Railway Purse: Waxy 1, Saunterer 2, Drum
Major 3. Forced Handicap : Nancy Lee 1, Bob Sawyer
2, Jane Avenel 3.
Sportsman won the Steeplechase at the Auck-
land Autumn Meeting. Whakahihi second, and the big
Australian grey Lone Hand running nowhere, refusing
the jumps. There was a bit of scandal in connection
with this event. The running of Sportsman did not
suit certain members of the ring, who as soon as the
winning numbers were put up, raised a cry that the
horse had gone the wrong side of a flag, which it is
supposed had been shifted by some person unknown.
The bookmakers were also heard offering money to any
person who could prove that Sportsman had gone
inside the flag. A protest was entered by the owner of
Whakahihi, at the solicitation of the books, but the
stewards after hearing a number of witnesses disallowed
it.
Writes “ A Rower”: —“ In The Bulletin of
7th inst., you state that a Melbourne correspondent of
a contemporary believes that at some future time it will
be possible to row with one’s face towards the place the
boat is going to. I read in an old copy of the
Scientific American an account of how this could be
accomplished. Separate the scull into two pieces,
where it works against the poppet. Fix each part to
the gunwale of the boat by passing a pin or swivel
through it. Then, by attaching to each of the discon-
nected ends iron with cogs (like a section of a cogged
wheel), the blade of the scull may be made to work in
the same direction as the handle—not the opposite, as
at present. There are, however, two objections to this
plan: the blade of the scull cannot be feathered, and
there are more chances of mishaps, which are already
sufficiently plentiful.
Dr. Carver has been successful in both of his
shooting matches in England. In the pigeon shooting
match for the Championship of the World, and the
Sportsman Challenge Cup, he beat Graham by a score
of 40 to 36, and Scott beat Gordon by 40 to 39. Carver
and Scott then shot off the deciding heat, which
Carver won by 79 to 74. Dr. Carver thus wins the title
of champion, the cup, and £650 stakes. Immediately
after the match had been decided, Mr. Scott challenged
Dr. Carver to a match for the cup and £2OO a side, the
contest to be according to the conditions under which
the cup was given, and to be decided within two
months. A gentleman present offered to bet £5OO that
Scott would win. The glass ball match between Dr.
Carver and Mr. Scott, for a purse of £6OO, which began
on March 7th, at the Aquarium, Westminster, was
concluded on March 19th, and resulted in the following
total scores : Carver, 9737; Scott, 9735.
Writes aN.Z. journal of a book, not unknown in
Sydney : —“ Two rather good stories are told of Drake,
whose tall figure is so familiar on the racecourse. On
one occasion he was, as usual, walking up and down
crying ‘ I lay! I lay ! I lay !’ when a rag-a-muffin ex-
claimed, ‘ It’s a confounded lie! Drakes don’t lay.’
Another day he was giving utterance to the same out-
cry, with his head gracefully inclining to his shoulder
as it invariably does, when another impudent larrikin
shouted out, ‘ Lay your tarnation head on the other
shoulder.’ The larrikin ducked as Drake attempted to
stroke him down. By the way Drake received a hard
knock over the Great Autumn Handicap at Christ-
church. He laid several persons 100 to 1 against 20 out
of the 27 horses in the race, selecting seven to run for
his book. Lady Emma was not amongst these, so that
he lost the wagers, which amounted in toto to several
hundred pounds. The money was paid up promptly.”
The South Canterbury (N.Z.) Jockey Club Races
were held on the 28th and 29th April. There was an
immense attendance on the first day, but on the second
poor, owing to a miserable drizzling rain falling. In
several instances the mist and sleet were so dense that
it was quite impossible to watch the horses at certain
parts of the course. Results: —First day. Trial
Stakes, If mile : Sir Garnet 1, Nautilus 2, Hilda 3.
Timaru Cup, If mile: Sir Modred (Bst 101 b) 1, Lady
Emma (7st 51b) 2, Libeller (7st 81b) 3; time, 3m. 13Js.
Flying Handicap, f mile : Luna 1, Hilda 2, Rand wick 3;
time, Im. 16fs. Second day. S.C. J.C. Handicap, If mile:
Luna (6st 41b) 1, Lady Emma (7st 31b) 2, The Joker (6st
11b) 3; Natator, Randwick, Libeller, Hilarious, Sir
Garnet, and The Poet also started. Splendid raea.
Time, 2m. 58s. Hurdles, 2f miles 8 flights : Winifield 1,
Sailor Boy 2, The Agent 3. Winter Oats Handicap:
The Joker 1, Billingsgate 2, Hilda 3. Consolation: The
Poet 1, Nautilus 2, Billingsgate 3. The totalisator did
a roaring business.
The sixth meeting of the Hunter’s Hill Athletic
Club was an unqualified success. About a thousand
spectators were present, and the various events were
generally well contested. Following are the results: —
100 yards Flat Race: W. C. Rush 1, P. C. Fail-land 2.
160 yards Handicap Flat Race, for boys under 16: E.
Fitzgerald 1, G. Buchanan 2, H. Huntley 3. 150 yards
Handicap Flat Race: P. C. Fairland 1, A. Gerard 2.
Mile Flat Race: D. D. Middleton 1, A. Arnold 2.
Quarter-mile Plat Race —Club Challenge Cup: W. R.
Young 1, J. B. O’Brien 2. 150 yards Handicap Flat
Race, for boys under 14: E. Fitzgerald 1, E. Pearson 2,
H. Huntley 3. 300 yards Handicap Plat Race: P. L.
King 1, D. D. Middleton 2. Muffs’ 150 yards Plat Race;
P. R. Pedley 1, H. S. Jeanneret 2. Quarter-mile Plat
Race—Hunter’s Hill Challenge Cup: S. H. Fairland 1.
120 yards Handicap Hurdle Race : J. J. Brennan 1, G.
C. Addison 2, A. Gerard 3. One mile Handicap Walk-
ing Match : R. Tiddy 1, W. E. Harnett 2, M. Arnold 3.
300 yards Maiden Flat Race: A. C. Logan 1, W. R.
Young 2. Forced Handicap, 150 yards : A. C. Logan 1,
A. Gerard 2, P. Pedley 3.
TO GRAND FLANEUR.
Stout-hearted, unbeaten, long-winded, far-striding,
The scene of thy triumphs perforce thou must quit—
No more to the front wilt thou come without riding.
No more will Tom Hales on thee motionless sit.
An over-reached sinew thy vict’ries has ended ;
From the post to the paddock soon forced to adjourn.
From all active service thou now art suspended—
No more to the training ground wilt thou return.
A Mahometan's Paradise, the racehorse victorious
Awaits —there the place of thy sire thou wilt fill.
May the deeds of thy stock make thy name ever
glorious—
Once King of the turf, and our favourite still.
3rd May.
B.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A match has been made at Q , for <£so
a side, between H. Bradford and Watson (not Scone
Watson), distance 150 yards. Watson defeated Scott,
some time ago, in Maryborough, and Bradford is con-
sidered the best runner in Gympie. The event will be
run on the 24th inst At Gympie, on April 28, three
pigeon sweeps were shot off. In the first, out of fifteen
competitors, Messrs. Frampton and Atherton (the
latter a “ rank outsider”) were first and second re-
spectively—the former killing eight, and the latter six,
out of eight birds. The first prize in the second sweep,
four birds each, was won by Mr. Atherton ; the second
by Mr. Patterson—the pair shooting off a tie. The
third sweep (two birds in the trap) was won by Mr.
Patterson Young Floyd, who was accidentally shot
at Caulfield, Melbourne, on Sunday week, bade fair to
be a really excellent jockey, and what is more, was a
nice-mannered, decent lad The Hon. W. J. Clarke
will, it is said, during his coming visit to Europe, keep
an open eye for suitable blood stock, to secure which
money will be no object Peter Newton, of pugilistic
renown, has issued a challenge to all comers up to his
weight Connor is open to run any man in Australia,
or elsewhere, ten miles The racing season in N.Z.
terminates on Queen’s Birthday, 24th Nominations
for the Mackay (Q ) Races are as follow: —Ten for the
Club Handicap, eleven for Pioneer Handicap, thirteen
for the Flying Handicap, and eight for the Members’
Plate Maori (better known in Australia as Auck-
land) started in two or three events at the Auckland
Meeting and finished in the ruck A number of N.Z,
bookmakers will shortly be in Sydney. Too quiet in
Maoriland during the winter. (Birthday Handicap)
At Auburn, U.S., Edward Holske and William Hoag-
land walked a match race of 10 miles. At the end of
the fourth mile the principals indulged in a fist fight.
The referee decided that the men should walk on, and
allowed Holske a lap, whereupon Hoagland stopped.
The time for the the 4 miles, 21m. 2sec., is the best in
the world Mr. H. L. Cortis, of the Wanderers’
Bicycle Club, of London (and brother of Dr. Cortis, of
Bathurst), has taken part in 133 races. Of these he
won sixty-nine, was second eight times, and third
fourteen times The greatest living demolisher of
sole leather is pedestrian Weston. He has walked
55,000 miles since he first took to pedestrianism in 1887.
O’Leary has covered about half that distance since he
began his career as a walker at the old West
Side Rink at Chicago in 1874. It would take a deal
of time to calculate how much leather both have
used up. They are the shoemaker’s friends
Wallace Ross, the sculler, proved himself a first-class
boxer in an encounter with one of the lively sports who
pass their festive hours in the neighbourhood of Scot-
land yard. One of Ross’s blows was represented as a
swinging right-hander that would have put a bullock
out of his misery, and another as the fellow to the blow
that killed Buckley There was to be a novelty in con-
nection with the University boat race in England this
year, in the shape of a jubilee dinner of all the old
college oarsmen who could be collected in London on
Friday, the Bth of April. Mr. Justice Denman or Lord
Justice Brett was to take the chair. The fiftieth anni-
versary of the first race between the universities
occurred two seasons ago, but no commemoration of it
was then attempted.
Marcus and the Money Lenders.
The impecuniosity of literary men has always been pro-
verbial. Grub-street, to be sure, has long since vanished,
with its traditions of Johnson, Goldsmith, and Savage;
but the needy and dun-haunted litterateur is a social
fact that seems likely to be always with us. These
reflections are suggested by reading the recent
insolveney proceedings re Aaron Waxman v. Marcus
Clarke. Mr. Waxman is well known in Melbourne as
one of those benevolent Jewish gentlemen who are
always willing to accommodate you with a loan on
“ any terms you like, my tear shir,” the said terms
generally turning out to be at least “shixty per shent.”
Mr. Marcus Clarke, the most brilliant of Aus-
tralian writers, is as well known in the literary as
Mr. Waxman is in the financial world, and he holds
the position of assistant librarian at the public library.
He seems, unfortunately for himself, to have had deal-
ings for some time past with “my friend Aaron,” as
the cheerful Marcus used to call him in the days when
the monied man was compliant and allowed the bill to
run on and accumulate. But, alas! things have changed
greatly since then. The cruel Aaron now seeks
to have the genial Marcus declared insolvent, and
has taken out a debtor’s summons agpinst him.
Marcus applies to have the summons set aside, and
affidavits of his are produced to counteract those filed
by Aaron. The details are decidedly amusing and
highly suggestive. The latter claims that £298 10s. is
justly dee to him as the balance of principal and in-
terest of two (promissory notes given by Clarke for
£250 and £l5O. Marcus, however, asserts that the
money has been all paid, except £25 and interest;
states that in August, 1879, he made an arrangement
with Aaron whereby the financier was to advance him
a sufficient sum to pay off his other creditors, and he
was to sign a deed undertaking to give Aaron certain
documents known as H. orders to enable the money-
lender to receive his salary every month. In March,
1880, however, a fresh agreement was made, by which
Aaron was to receive the whole of Marcus’ salary,
amounting to £37105. a month, generously allowing £l7
10s. per month for his maintenance. The unfortunate
debtor further states that the money lender has received
since then no less than £375 of his salary, and has
kept it all for himself, instead of paying the other
creditors their share, as agreed upon. This, however,
would imply that Marcus never received the monthly
allowance of £l7 10s., which is hard to believe. A
literary man cannot live on nothing, and there are those
who say that the clever author of “ His Natural Life ’’
is as shrewd in money matters as any professed usurer.
It is even asserted that so profoundly impressed was
Aaron with the bargaining abilities of Marcus that, on
one occasion, he offered, in the fullness of his heart, to
take the man of letters into his firm as a junior partner.
This, however, is beside the question. There is, doubt,
less, much to be said on both sides of the case. Money
lenders are not all grasping and hard-hearted wretches,
nor are their clients all innocents and unsuspecting
victims. Altogether, the affair is very sad, and should
serve as a warning to aspiring young literary gentlemen
not to have too much to do with genial Hebrews, who
are always ready to oblige “ gents ” in needy
circumstances. One point, however, strikes us aa
requiring explanation. It is easy to understand that
writers who depend for their living on precarious and
intermittent press work may get into arrears, and be
tempted to run up little bills with the neighbouring
grocer, baker, or tailor. But why a gentleman like Mr.
Clarke, enjoying a snug Government billet of £450 a
year, with plenty of time for earning money by outside
work, should come to have dealings with a money-
lender is passing strange. But, who knows ? Many a
man has been overweighted through life with burdens
and liabilities incurred in his youthful days and which
cling like an ancestral curse to their fated possessors.
Let us hope Marcus will this time get free from the
baneful influence of Aaron and be able to start fresh and
unencumbered in the struggle for existence. What
makes the affair specially unfortunate for the litterateur
is that there is just now a vacancy is the librarianship
of the Public Library, and Marcus is known to be
hankering after it. It was really very cruel of Aaron to
take out that debtor’s summons just at this particular
moment. Why could he not have been content with
another little bill, and so have given Marcus a slight
breathing time,?


Tailors, Drapers
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HO US
358, 360, 362, George-i
OPENING NEW G(
for
WINTER SEASC
EVERY DAT DURING TB
FIRST GENERAL S
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DEE SSI
FOR THE WINTER S
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO (
FRENCH CASHMERE CAMB:
DOVER HOMESPUN INDRI
ELASTIC BIEGE ANGOj
KASGHER CASHMERE JERSE
STOCKINGETTE VALPI
AND A LARGE ASSOETMEI
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.— 1
cases of very
EEY, someth!
handsome, dire
houses in Lond
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR'
SILK, Rich V«
to 24 inch wide,
4e 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES, ]
SILKS, in a var
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 3s
6s lid, 7s 6d. 1
worn, and stn
for wear, and fl
BLACK YELVE
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard stai
BLACK SATINS
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d,
are light and s<
under usual
SILK VELVE
every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MENT of al
LACES in eve
imitation, Emb
Ruffling, Mode
Cuffs, Collate'
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace 1
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
HEiITiJSVjrS WI
FROM DRESS
be no decepti
washed. Lad:
Sheetings gooc
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-ii
inch. Is 6d to 2
to 3s. Americi
& Horrocks’ C.
QUILTS, from
prices. Color
QUILTS, 2i lo
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 am
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our study
this class of i
character. By
year after year
of FIRST-CLA
are now show!
ment of of DA
NAPKINS, bol
Damask. Thei
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We <
MASK CLOT]
425; 5-8 NAPK
3-4 NAPKINS
29s 6d; DA
round or squar
DAMASK. 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 1
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW LIN
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, froi
cording to size
ISH TOWELS
Tailors, Drapers
2
J MEN
BELMOEE HOU
205 Pitt-street,
MILLINER, UNDEECLOTHIEE,
AND AETIPICIAL F]
Vary pretty BONNETS and HAT
velvet, cream, and black Spanii
Beautiful MILLINEEY SETS in
The new TOQUE, COLLAE, and
40s. the set; made of best plusl
Novelties in HEAD - DEESSE!
FLO WEES.
TEEMS —CASH
161
KING STREE
(Near Tramway
MADAME WEIG
PAPEE PATTEENS of DEESSEI
cut in different sizes for Ladie
nished with illustrations and d
up. Sold at prices ranging fro
styles monthly in WEIGEL
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by ]
annum, post free. Catalogu
Patterns sent to any part of th<
of price and measure. Postage
ADDEESS:
MADAME WEI
161 KING STEEI
SYDNEY.
Business Announc
LLEGAX.J
S
HOETER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOE
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUAEIE STEEET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary!
Legal.— Mr, t. m. f
SOLICITOE, has coi
W
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite 1
News Office.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAD
225 BOUEKE STEEET, WOO
QHEAPEST AND BES'
AT
MASK ISAACS' COEPOEAI
HAY STEEET, HAYN
TEA, Is per lb
Other articles equally chei
Goods packed and delivered free
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTEY STOEEKEEPEES LI
WITH.
P
PIANOS
lANOS. AMERICAN 01
AMEEICAN OEG.
FIREWORK
FIREWORKS ! F)
PUBLIC NOT!
FTIHE UNDERSIGNEI
POINTED SOLE AGENT
ATLAS BRAND PRIZE L
WORKS, manufactured by th
turing Company (Limited), Pyi
Majesty the Queen and the 1
ment.
MYERS and
These JUSTLY CELEBEATI
which have now been before the
twenty years, are NOW ON SALE
To meet the increasing demand foi
day, we have imported 100,000 Gi
ATLAS BRAND FIEEWOEKS, cc
which will be sold at Is. 9d. and 2s.
ROYAL ATLAS B
PRIZE LONDON FI!
MYERS AND Si
Sole Wholesale A
SQUIBS
PIN WHEELS
BLUE DEVIL
GOLD]
BLUE CANDLES
CHINESE TEEES
FLO WEE I
DO
PRINCE OF WALES’ P
Is. 9d. per gross
f
The above Ten Kinds, Double Size
same assortment as abc
superior.
TRIPLE SIZE, Bs. per gross,
and Roman Candles.
THROW-DOWN CRACKERS, i
x Gross, 4s. per box.
FIRE BALLOOI
65., 12s„ 245., 365., and 60i
CHINESE PIREW
CHINESE CRACKERS, 40 packel
EXTRA SUPERIOR CHINESE (
40 packets in box, red box, 6i
Tom Thumb Chinese Crackers, 40
strings in packet, 6s. per doz
CHINESE GUNS, extra superior
Bs. dozen packets
Serpents
Tailors, Draper
COUNTRY ORDERS far
Winter Requisites just in ti
May Ist. Waterproofs, Childrer
4s. 6d. to 255. Long Jackets, ss. t<
DOLMAN’S VARIOUS PIECE
Felt and Quilted Alpaca. Wool
as Cuffs, Bona, Fischns, Wrappen
and other Muffs.
A Nice Lot of Frillinga, Fringi
Velvets, Velveteens, Laces, H<
Household Drapery.
In the item of Dress Material
WE CAN PLEASE YOU.
Winter Millinery now showing
making. Country Customers send
Our own Registered (
2 Buttons 4 Bn
In the Shop ... 2s 9d 3s
Posted ... ... 3s 4s
JOHN B. YOUD
656 GEORGE ST
(Just below Liverpool
MERICAN CUT PAP
MADAME DEMC
Perfect Fittin
Newest styles every mail from
Full directions and illustrations «
MADAME DEMOREST’S publ
fashions. 600 Plates, Is.; What t
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gra
MISS LOUISA 1
87 King Street, Sydney (two do
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-st
T
HE M I S S E
(Late with Messrs. David
52, MARGARET S 3
WYNYARD SQ
Three Doors from Mr. J. Sj
Have much pleasure in announcin
to open Mantles Millinery, and sj
Ladies for the Autumn Season. .
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET. W 1
Jji LISE’S PAPER CU
All communications to be
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET,
Six doors from Georg
Orders for Patterns cannot be
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patter
style, cut, and finish, being modelle
Fashions, and are always sent i
receipt of stamps or money order.
XT IS A WELL-KNOV
JL for Household or Fami
Hordern’s” Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H ' ha
for Value, Variety, or Extent of S
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GO
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES .
DO. L. LI
HIGH-CLASS CASH
3 BRIDGE STREET
LATE
CUTTER TO E. Ml
egs to inform his friends and tl
opened the above premises
gentlemen who wish to have
manship, &e., at a low price fo
Gentlemen requiring this with W
should give me!a trial.
Country orders promptly
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM Q
OTICE TO TH
SUITS TO ORDE
R. C. HA(
fashionab:
TAILORING ESTAI
127 KING STRI
Where you can be fitted with the
cheapest Outfit in th
Note the Extraordinary Cheap I


Hotels, &o.
o LD
EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOE BOAEDEES.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands ; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIEE, Proprietor,
Ma. GO O D,
• PARK HOTEL, PAEEAMATTA.
(immediately opposite the domain gates).
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines and Spirits, of the
best brands, at the lowest possible prices. Picnic
parties therefore would do well not to burden them-
selves by bringing the same.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FOE FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERSi
The Celebrated .
WOLFE’S I
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
V JvoRV?
n
I
TINIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
O
S 3
&
&
rd
3
C)
Si
<o
9
i
•o
a.
Wholesale Agent —C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull jDog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common hitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there*
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. C ATTELL and
GO., Sole Agents,
ADC MAR
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
tod CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To he Procured Everywhere.
J R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIBGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
mm
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in .small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,*AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
ROSS AND CLINCH,
(Late Collins and Eoach),
.SEATED WATER
AND
COEDIAL MANUFACTURERS,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
CORDIALS OP ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:—
BOSS AND CLINCH,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
jgl MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 14s per dozen.
ALBURY WINES.
POET MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
JjULLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VINETABD :
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris ~ 1864
Vienna ~ ... 1873
Philadelphia „ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
Hotels, &c.
1 OBEET BUTCHEE & CO.,
Aj (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FEOM FILTEEED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT EEDUCED PEICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office— 3 WYNYAED STEEET.
WINE GEOWEE AND MEECHANT,
Splendid DINNER WINES, from 12s. to 255. per doz.
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 21s, per doz.
PINE OLD WINES, suitable for Ladies and Invalids
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS : 40 Hunter-street. Sydney
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
rjiHE
GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
'
'dve.
4-
c
Manufactured by
JOHANN MAEIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, O/Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; -and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878 —Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice.—The Public are cautioned against numerous
Smrious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “Farina
olognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JOlichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, PEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
THE
TAEPING MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made up into 11b and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places :
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M'Donald, William-street, Woolloomooloo
J. F. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M'Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Riley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C„ Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., corner of Crown and Devonshire-
streets
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
T. E. Geddes, 823 George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dunne, corner of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M'Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo
J. M'Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Guinery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Redfem
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrotubie-street
■R. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies' and gentlemen’s RESTAUBANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late chM de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880,
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTE tS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
THE
(JITY (JATERING (JoMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET,
DATE
" HARRIS* ” CAFE, Opposite Peapes and Shaw,
Are now prepared to undertake the Catering and
Management of Balls, Banquets, Dinners, Wedding
Parties, Picnics, Tea Meetings, Luncheons, &c., &c.,
on the shortest notice and most reasonable terms.
Among the waiters attending will be found the old
favourites, and civility tyid attention.
The Gentlemens Caf£ and Restaurant, and also the
Ladies Refreshment Rooms, will be open in a few days.
HAS. R. gMI T H,
MANAGER.
FJI O ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Westem
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal.
j
ANCE
DE.
or
3 s
EBAC
MU
UUil
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS.
HENNESSY’S HOTEL,
RUTHVEN-STEEET, TOOWOOMBA.
The above is, without exception, the LAR GEST and
MOST COMMODIOUS HOTEL in the whole of the
Darling Downs and Western Districts.
A large and well-constructed Hotel has been a great
want in’Toowoomba, and that want is now supplied in
HENNESSY’S HOTEL.
The Coffee and Dining Rooms are large and roomy,
and are well furnished. There are over 20 single bed-
rooms, besides family apartments. All the bed-rooms
are furnished with full bed-room suites. Private
apartments, with sitting rooms, for families.
To commercial gentlemen Hennessy’s Hotel offers
unusual advantages. .Situated in the leading street of
the town, it is in the centre of all the banks and busi-
ness places, and only a short distance from the newly,
erected Public Buildings. A large SAMPLE ROOM,
specially for Commercial gentlemen, has been erected.
A large and well-ventilated BILLIARD ROOM,
fitted with a new billiard table of the latest design.
The Cuisine Department will be under the manage-
ment of a first-class cook.
The best best brands of Wines, Ales, and Spirits.
No effort or expense has been spared to make
Hennessy’s Hotel one of the best in Queensland.
The Bulletin and other Sydney and Melbourne
papers kept on the file.
To Racing men Hennessy’s Hotel commends itself.
There are large, roomy stables and loose boxes.
Buggies and horses always on hire. A buggy will
meet all trains.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street. next corner
King-street. Established 1859.


"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Dampier, at latest advices, had been running All
for Gold ” at London to capital business for some weeks.
By the way, Mr. F. E. C. Hopkins, the author of the
piece in question, passed through Sydney last week, en
route to Moree, where he takes delivery of Midkin sta-
tion. Mr. Hopkins neither smokes, drinks, nor plays
billiards The other night, at an amateur perfor-
mance, some future “stars” made their dJbflt in a farce
called “ The Three Duffers "—said to have been written
expressly for them When Hello way’s troupe got to
Temora, of “ East Lynne " was put
on, and money was turned nightly from the doors. This
drama was received with roars of laughter, the “ boys ”
going especially for the dialogues between Lady
Isabel and Sir Francis. Harry Lesion played a straight
part, and could scarcely get through for the laughter of
the audience. The entertainment closed with “ That
Eascal Pat,” which gave Leston a chance to “go”
for the audience bald-headed, and they went away
shrieking Kelly and Leon’s Pinafore Company have
given place at the Town Hall, Brisbane, to Sweatnam’s
Minstrels. The former company are now travelling the
Queensland provinces; Miss Emma Wangenheim is
their prima donna A correspondent writes to say
that a strolling player, after giving two entertainments
at Glen Innes, sent round a small boy to all the hotels
and storekeepers, requesting them to return the posters
he had left at their places a few days previously as he
would require them at his next place of call —Vegetable
Creek. Our correspondent considers such conduct
mean. However, the poor player is often sorely pushed.
Better, in our opinion, that he should take back what,
after all, was his own, and of no use to anybody else,
than that he should make default with a perhaps
equally poor printer At a recent ‘‘popular concert ’’
in London, the Princess of Wales was so pleased with
the admirable playing of Miss Sohirmacher on the
piano, that her Eoyal Highness, after the concert, went
into the private room and expressed to Miss Schir-
macher the gratification and pleasure she had experi-
enced in listening to her performance Simonsen’s
Company produced “ Pinafore” in Auckland by kind
permission of J. C. Williamson, so the ads. say. Eic-
cardi as Sir Joseph had a tremendous reception
Madame Simonsen was to take a “ ben.” in Auckland
on May 6 Harry Rickards has a new political song,
‘‘What have they done?” Herr Bandmann took a
benefit in Wanganui, when “ The Lady of Lyons” was
presented J. Stark has joined De Lias’ New Zealand
“ Dauites” Company Pollard's Lilliputian “Pina-
fore” Company have been drawing immensely at the
Theatre Royal, Christchurch, N.Z. On the opening
night (Easter Monday) the place was packed long before
commencing the performance, and the houses have con-
tinued to be very large since. The Dunedin season was
equally successful. Walter Eeynolds has a hand in this
show, fortunately for himself, as he and the dramatic com-
pany have been doing wretched business at Wellington.
Simonsen’s Opera Company played a costume
cricket match with a local team in Auckland, and were
defeated Tom Margetts is in Auckland, out of har-
ness Carden and Miss Marston Leigh recently played
Gilbert’s comedy, “ The Eomantic Family,” at Dune-
din, in which the lady sang “ Beloved Again.” They
were a great success, and their support was excep-
tionally good De Lias shortly opens the Theatre
Royal, Christchurch, with “ The Danites” (Riggs,
Wallace, Hamilton, and Company). Mr. and Mrs. Car-
den f0110w......Mr5. Scott-Siddons is still travelling in
America with capital results, and nothing more is said
about her probable return to England at an early date.
Mr, Sheppersen and Miss Lydia Howarde are rest-
ing on their oars at Christchurch. Shepperson made
an offer of £3OO to Mr. J. C. Williamson for the
sole right to play “ The Pirates of Penzance” in New
Zealand for three months, but the offer was declined
Craig and Overton are playing with the Lingards at
'Frisco Riccardi’s Mephistopheles (says an Auck-
land print) is a masterly performance; in fact, as good,
so far as acting is concerned, as M. Faure’s Emily
Soldene writes to “ Puck” of the Otago Witness that
she will be in New Zealand in three or four months
with “ Olivette.” The incantation scene in “ Der
Freischutz ” was the greatest and most successful
scenic effect ever attempted at the Theatre Royal,
Auckland A Christchurch (N.Z.) journal says that
in considering the individual merits of the principal
members of the Pollard Liliputian “ Pinafore ” Com-
pany, it should be borne in mind that these are very
young, and that they all suffer more or less by com-
parison with adults in the matter of spoken dialogue!
J. F. Cathcart had a benefit at Christchurch (N.Z.)
Lola, De Glorian, and Harry Power are in Welling-
ton (N.Z.) Great regret at Mrs. J. L. Hall’s death is
expressed at the Thames Goldfields (N.Z.), where her
parents reside When performing at the Theatre
Royal, Invercargil (N.Z.) “ Zeta,” a gymnaste formerly
with Chiarini’s Circus, fell from a ring trapeze, a dis-
tance of 15 feet, landing on the seats in the pit. She
was severely shaken, but was able to appear on the stage,
after which she was taken to her lodgings. She was
out of practice, and had been advised not to appear
Mr. Creswick has been banqueted at the Urban Club.
In reply to the toast of his health, he spoke thus: —
“The colonies have been peopled by those who had
witnessed his labours in the old country, and had
approved of them, and they were to him like
brothers. He could scarcely pass down a street
without hearing ‘ Mr, Creswick !—is that you ? ’ ”
Lotti Wilmot, who doesn’t succeed at Auckland, was,
at latest, threatening criminal libel actions against the
Saturday Advertiser (Dunedin), Napier Telegraph,
and half a dozen other N.Z. papers What is
the next thing ? Martina Simonsen sang “ It was
a Dream” in the third act of “Maritana,” when
the company produced it in Auckland .Grattan
Riggs, Theo. Hamilton, and J. J. Wallace have been
playing “The Danites” and other pieces at Wellington,
N.Z. Business good. Mrs. Walter Hill and Mr. and
Mrs. E. J. Kennedy are members of the company
Ghiloni’s Waxworks Exhibition is in Wellington, N.Z.
Herr Bandmann, Louise Beaudet, and a company
opened at Wellington, N.Z., in “ Hamlet,” on April
25th, under the management of De Lias
James Carden produced “ Certain Proof ” in Dunedin,
N.Z., with the following strong cast:—Duke Daube-
terre, Mr. Harry Sefton; Pierre Lorance and Cham-
boran (friends), Mr. James Carden and Mr. Lachlan
M‘Gowan ; Lazar, Mr. J. P. West; Victor De Langey,
Mr. Arthur Elliott; Senechal, Mr. J. J. Welsh; Ser-
geant, Mr. James O’Brien ; Joseph, Mr. H. Lambert;
Captain Larbaisiere, Mr. Gerald Dillon; Valantine De
Laval, Miss Marston Leigh; Madame De Prets, Miss
Jennie Watt-Tanner;; Duchess Daubeterre, Mrs. Lach-
lan M'Gowan; Madeline, the mother, and Adrienne,
the daughter. Miss Maggie Knight; Martha, Miss
Ethel Adele; Louise, Miss Blanche Wood; Little
Adrienne, Baby Burleigh. Big houses nightly,
and De Lias jubilant The Lizzie Morgan Company,
at latest, were at West Coast, N.Z Professor Hasel-
mayer did splendid business at Nelson, N.Z Harry
Le Clair is still playing at Woodward’s Garden’s, ’Frisco.
l3 of Fanny May’s British Blondes were arrested
at Chicago for obscenity and indecency on the stage
Herr Bandmann, who has quarrelled in every town he
has visited in New Zealand, either with the Fourth
Estate or his company, was at latest engaged in a fierce
fight with the Wanganui Chronicle. He had inter-
viewed the editor, the result being that the latter wrote
thus:—“ We tolerate insolence and blackguardly
language from no one, and at once declined to do any
more business with Herr Bandmann, and we now
decline to criticise any more of his performances or
eccentricities either on the stage or off.” In a letter to
the Herald, the Herr denounces the accusation of the
Chronicle as “ a malicious, slanderous falsehood.”
He adds that the real cause of the dispute was the fact
of his agent having stopped a clerk in the office from
bringing two ladies into the theatre without paying
Ada Ward has been around the world three times
Chalet, the ventriloquist, is travelling through
California and the Eastern States with a variety show.
Mr. Buislay, of Hawley and Buislay, trapeze
performers, fell from the trapeze at the National
Theatre, Philadelphia, and had a narrow escape from
death Messrs. Waters, Kelly and Gilbert Sarony are
travelling with the Australian Mammoth Minstrels in
England Dampier and CreSwick both took part in a
performance for the benefit of Mr. Wm. Holland, at the
Surrey Theatre, London The Stray Leaves Company
are now on the Goulbum Valley line. Business has
been “ shy,” probably owing to the very bad weather.
The troupe were to play at Shepparton and Mooroopna,
then re-visit Seymour, and thence overland to Sidney.
“Zulu” Thompson, having finished at Ballarat,
opened at Geelong on the 3rd inst. In spite of rather bad
weather, business has been very good, and far beyond
expectation. It was Mr. Thompson’s intention to leave
for Adelaide on the 10th, with a view of arranging to
appear at Gamer’s Theatre M. Yienxtemps, the
great violinist, who has for the last three years, owing
to the state of his health, been living in retirement at
Algiers, is sufficiently recovered to bo able to resume
his professional avocations Ba:ry Sullivan had
scarcely,uttered the words, “ Dogs bark at me as I
halt by them,’’ from “ Richard III.", at the Cork
Theatre, lately, when he was disconcerted by the yelp-
ing of a cur, which, with its mistress, had to be
removed from the theatre Levy, the cornetist,
plays at Brighton Beach next Summer to the
tune of £lOO per week, or about £6 per “ t00t."......
Mr. Jefferson has finished his theatrical season, and is
now at his plantation in Louisiana. His son and
business agent, Mr. C. B. JeSerson, has already begun
preparations for the work of a new professional year
The approaching marriage of Mile. Croizette and the
wealthy banker. Stem, is announced. He marries to
enable her to quit the stage, and above all, to prevent
her following the example of Sara Bernhardt, and
starring in America The London World is autho-
rity for the statement that Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan
have made progress upon their new opera for next season.
It says: “The subject is the overpoetic, hyperbolic,
aesthetic mania of society. No sarcasm against any
individual, but any amount of happily humorous
castigation »>f general manners. Eight numbers of
the first act are already composed, and on
Friday last the manuscript of the second act
was placed in the hands of Mr. Sullivan.” ......
Says a Californian paper of an old Australian favourite:
—Miss Joey Gongenheim, whose name is familiar to
old plavgoers, will re-apper upon the stage of this country
at San Francisco within afew weeks. Miss Gongenheim
is now Mrs. Marmoduke Constable, and has been a resi-
dent during late years in Sydney. Mrs. Constable, who
is highly esteemed socially, is said to be still handsome
and a spirited actress. Her early popularity was gained
in youthful and vivacious parts— ingenues and the like
Mr. Berry has promised the patronage of the Ministry
to the benefit for’the family of the late Mr. Fred
Coppin, on the 14th inst Cole, we are told, cleared
£24,000 by his Australian tour The Empson family
have been very successful at Cooma and Bombala
Madame Sibley has been playing at Gundagai. She is
accompanied by the Azels family, who perform some
clever feats of legerdemain Mr. E. T. sen-
sational actor of the melodramatic school, intimates
his intention shortly to visit Australia and New Zea-
land, to produce several of his plays and dramas. At
date of departure of the last California mail he was
playing at the Adelphi Theatre, San Francisco, in
his great sensational drama in a prologue and three acts,
entitled “ Neck and Neck.” George Darrell has evi-
dently been setting a bad example .....We notice the
announcement of tbe marriage of Miss Arethusa May
(daughter of Mrs Walter Hill and of the late Walter Hill,
comedian), to Mr. J. J. Kennedy. No cards, but plenty
of three-sheet posters Eleanor Carey’s husband,
Livingstone (who, by the way, is a fine fellow), was in
’Frisco when the mail left, and was down in his luck,
having made an unfortunate speculation. He told our
correspondent that his wife was on the look-out for
a few good pieces, and that she contemplated a
starring tour in Australia in eighteen months’ time......
The Wilhelmj concert party has done a very fair busi-
ness at the Baldwin Theatre, ’Frisco. The great
William J. is the star, of course, and Miss Fritsch has
won golden opinions by her pretty face and sweet
vocalization. Mr. Sternberg has also proved himself
worthy of his title, that of a Bushing pianist. There
is a report that this clever party are coming on to
Australia At latest dates Emilie Melville had left
’Frisco and gone up-country. Eureka was enthusiastic,
and Salt Lake wild about the fair prima donna
A charming actress, whom we all remember well, has
obtained, in America, a divorce from her husband, who
is now in Sydney. She is to be married again shortly.
None of the stock actors at the Baldwin had
any salary for a good while —until the advent of the
Lingards, who took £lOOO and over with “ Betsy ”
(tutor) The S. P. News Letter says of Charles
Overton (Lingard Company) that he is a “ bom actor.”
“His ‘Old Becks’ is a marvel of impersonation, and
he possesses the rare faculty of suppressing his I
individuality in the part he represents
At latest dates, Darrell was in New York and said there
was no chance of his getting in anywhere until Septem- i
her. Things were booming East and the Lingards
were to start on April 4 for Salt Lake, placing along the
line to New York Mr. Charles Craig, the clever
amateur-professional actor who was here with the Lin-
gards has in America adopted the nom de theatre of
“ Mr. Maubrey.” Mr. H. J. Whittington, the well-
known theatrical agent and manager, is at present dis-
engaged in this city, having just completed a most
successful engagement with Mr. W. W. Cole, of circus
notoriety The versatile Tommy Hudson and his
company are still in durance vile on board the s.s.
Brisbane at the quarantine ground. Prom a private
letter it would appear that there is no prospect of their
being released for a fortnight to come.
Two Stage “Fixes.”
About fifteen years since, at Wellington, N.Z., I
was acting the part of Rochester in the comedy of
“Charles II,” W. H. Newton an actor of sterling
worth in those days playing the King. In the course of
the piece the king and Rochester visit a tavern in Wap-
ping, disguised as seamen. For two nights everything
went 0.K., but during the third evening some vile
ruffian removed my disguise and hid it. The change
from court costume is a rapid one, so imagine my dis-
may when, on going to my dressing room I was un-
able to find a single article which I could change to.
While I was rushing about heaping benedictions on
mystery, my ancestors and posterity, I was invited to
the stage—it waited! What could Ido ? I seized a
miserable potato sack which lay at hand, cut two holes
in the bottom. Thrusting my legs through the open-
ings, I tied the mouth of the sack round my waist, and
resigning myself to my fate adorned myself with my bell-
topper (instead of a tarpaulin hat) and gently waltzed
“ on." I never met with such a reception either before
or since. An instant’s dead silence, and then—! Such
yells of laughter, and such an uproar, such screams of
mirth from the whole house! For the time being the
beautiful little Bijou theatre was a pandemonium.
There were only three persons who did not laugh—
Billy Newton, myself, and a young lady weakness of
mine in the circle. Poor Newton gasped and turned
pale through his rouge. At length, however, he found
his voice and with tears in his eyes murmured, “ too
bad cully, too bad—you’ve killed me.” It was some
time ere we were allowed to go on with the piece.
When I got back to my dressing room, my missing
“ props ” were most carefully and accurately laid out
for my convenience. This affair of the sack veritably
got me the sack from my inamorata, but ultimately, as
at some future time I hope to show you, I got “ level ”
with the man who had victimised me.
Not very long after, at Wanganui, we were to
play “ The Corsican Brothers.” Frank Towers was
cast for Chateau-Renand—l playing the head of the
« Orlandi.” Frank wanted to practise with the foils
for the combat which takes place in the last act, and
asked me to have a bout with him. Well, after break-
fast we went to my room, and arming ourselves—l with
a foil, and Frank with a Hamlet rapier—we set to.
After a few passes, my foot slipped, and Frank, lunging
at the same instant, to his horror (and my agony) my
hip stopped the progress of his rapier, which first bent
nearly double, and then shot out through the flesh.
However, I came round, and hobbling about with the
aid of a stick, insisted on going through my part at
night. In the scene where Fabien de Franchei, acting
as peacemaker between the parties to the Vendetta,
insists on the head of the Orlandi faction making a
peace-offering of a fowl to the “ Collonna,” I was on the
point of handing over the bird. It was a venerable,
rigid-backed, dilapidated rooster, white with years and
by nature, and seemed to have come out of the Ark.
However, it still had some strength, and as it made
violent efforts to “ git,” I had all through the scene to
clutch it desperately. However, just as I was about to
hand it to my enemy, it got away. I made after it,
intent on its re-capture. And then—oh, horror I —that
mti swindle of a rooster was lame —and in the same
leg as I was. There we went, limping round and round
the stage, amidst shrieks of laughter from both actors
and audience. Why I didn’t commit suicide on the
spot, or why the earth didn’t open up and swallow me,
I don’t know. I never felt so sick in my life, and it
was long before I heard the last of it. However, the
gods be praised, Ulalume wasn’t in the house that
night.
Adelaide.
G.L.S.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
And bo we have seen the last of the “ Pirates of
Penzance!’’ That is, of course, unless “in consequence
of numberless representations to the management,” or
“in order to afford the many thousands who have been
turned away from the doors an opportunity of gratify-
ing their life’s dream,” it will be re-produced “for
positively one night only.” As, however, with our
well-known ingenuousness, we invariably believe the
statements embodied in theatrical advertisements, we
attended the final performance of Messrs. Gilbert and
Sullivan's opera, in order that, should it not be presented
again this season, we might not be found amongst the
broken-hearted. The result was, to a certain extent, a
disappointment. In our notices (always good-natured)
of “ The Pirates," we have considered it our duty to
call attention to the indifferent acting of many members
of the company. At first—while the run of the piece
was, as yet, in its infancy—we were willing to set this
down to nervousness, to imperfect knowledge of the
text, to —well, to, in short, anything but rank incompe-
tency. It mnst be remembered that even a bad actor
can, by thoroughly acquainting himself with his lines,
and bestowing great care in their delivery, often acquit
himself to the satisfaction of at least the non-critical
portion of his audience. When, however, a gentleman
who has few, if any, histrionic gifts, augments his in-
competenoy by carelessness of demeanour, the effect of
his performance is in the last degree painful and
irritating.
* * »
This charge of carelessness can be laid at the
doors of many of the members of Williamson’s com-
pany. Messrs. Verdi and Armes Beaumont, we con-
sider, sin especially in this regard. The former
gentleman, for instance, when not singing, perpetually
sweeps with his gaze the dress circle, and now and anon
renders some lady supremely happy by a sign of recog-
nition. Like) Simon Tappertit, Mr. Verdi wo aid seem
to have no small belief in “the power of the eye,” and,
in common with George the Fourth (of glorious
memory!), the popular baritone by no means under-
estimates the power of a smile. Of course we like to
see Mr. Verdi unbend. We think it charming; but we
prefer to contemplate that gentleman’s demonstrations
of affability when he is not either impersonating the
Pirate King or Captain Corcoran, E.N. If Mr. V. will
drop us a post-card detailing information as to the hour
he will smile his sweetest off the stage, we will stroll
round and ecstatically contemplate him. No matter the
day, no matter the hour —we will be there: and, more
than that, if necessary we will pay for admission.
There ! With regard to Mr. Beaumont, that gentleman,
to all appearance, does not try at any time to sink his
individuality. Instead of improving as years roll on, he
retrogrades with marvellous rapidity. Mr. Armes
with that in his favour, taken in connection with the vast
Beaumont has yet the remains of a splendid voice, and
experience he has had, it is plain that did he choose to
take pains, he could cut more than a decent figure on
the stage, instead of being, as in so many pieces he is
(so far as bisecting is concerned) rather unsuccessful.
* * »
These gentlemen have now been performing in
“ The Pirates ” for upwards of six weeks. Yet who can
conscientiously state that the acting of either is one
jot easier than during the first week of the opera ? In
many of the other members of the company, on the
other hand, marked improvement is observable. Miss
Maggie Moore, for instance, seems to have “ got the
hang" of her part with tolerable completeness. In
some parts she is exquisitely droll, and, although
perhaps much of her business was never contemplated
by Mr. Gilbert, it is for all that none the less amusing.
The aversion of this lady to “make up" her face
properly for Euth, however, completely spoils what
would otherwise be an intelligent rendering of the
part. Her persistence in not, in some degree, hiding
her facial attractions when impersonating Euth, is
rendered the more inexplicable, from the fact, that as
Little Buttercup in “ Pinafore ” she goes to the other
extreme in endeavouring to look, to the life, the now
historical bumboat-woman. Miss Cora G wynne showed
improvement both in her acting and singing, and Mr.
Bergin, if still mechanical, at least betrays signs of
having been wound up.
* * *
On Saturday “ Pirates of Penzance ” gave way
to “Pinafore,” with Mr. Howard Vernon (another
wonderful name!) as Sir Joseph, Mias Elsa May as
Josephine, Mr. George Leopold as the Boatswain, and
Mr. Ball as Dick Deadeye. The other characters found
their old representatives. A large house assembled to
greet the revival, and the piece went with great verve
and smoothness. Mr. Vernon’s Sir Joseph is an
improvement on that of Mr, Williamson, from the
simple fact that Mr. V. can sing a good deal, while Mr.
W. can’t sing a little bit. But, as may be easily
imagined, Mr. Vernon’s acting was as far inferior to
that of his predecessor in the part, as Mr. Williamson’s
singing is to the vocal efforts of Mr. Vernon, For all
this, the latter gentleman was highly successful,
chiefly owing to the circumstance, we think, of the
music suiting his yoice, which, though resonant, is of
but limited compass. We did not think from the very
mild manner in which Mr. Vernon represented the
Major-General that his Sir Joseph Porter would behalf
so good. It is therefore a pleasant surprise for us.
We can bear it.
* * *
In Miss Elsa May’s Josephine, we find precisely
the same faults as were observable in her Mabel. She
over-acts in a distressing manner all through, and in
her endeavours to look archer than ever a lady did
before, reminds one, at times, of a Norwegian rainbow.
Miss Elsa May has a certain amount of talent for
opera: so much we cheerfully admit; but she has also
very many faults. Her bearing in “ Pinafore is not
the bearing of an ingenuous young lady, and the
daughter of a gentleman of Sir Joseph’s social standing.
It resembles far more that of an intriguing chamber-
maid in a Palais Eoyale vaudeville. Miss May should
rid herself of these mannerisms. By nature, the lady is
vivacious. With that she should be content. _ There is
but a very small jump between the ultra-vivacious and
the frisky.
Miss Maggie Moore was excellent as little
Buttercup ; but we cannot compliment Mr. Ball upon
his Dick Deadeye, which was rather devoid of humour.
His make-up was the reverse of artistic—being neither
grotesque nor terrible. The music he sang very well,
though he made little of the “ Sing the simple captain
that you are” business in the second act. A little
more pains, however, and Mr. B. will be presentable
enough; and since we know what he can do, we have
to record our regret at having to score one off this
Ball. We have, this time, only snicked him to point,
and trust that William will see the point of our snick-
ing.
* * *
George Leopold made, as usual, great fun out
of the part of Boatswain, and Miss Fanny Liddiard
looked ravissante as Hebe. We are anxious, however,
to see this young lady in some more ambitious
character —Lady Macbeth, for instance —with an in-
troduced song in the murder scene. When, for in-
stance, that strong-minded lady comes out with her
hands encrimsoned, instead of saying to her horror-
stricken hub. —
“ My hands are of your colour, but I shame
To wear a heart so white,” etc., .
she could trip down to the footlights, and after having
smilingly demanded a chord from the chef d’orchestre ,
warbles in this strain :
My Mac. has got the scare, O lud 1
And wouldn’t “ smear the grooms with blood” —
I was the one to do it!
For I’m, you know, the “ bit of stuff ”
A hundred policemen couldn’t “ bluff ”
I’ll see my old man through it!
(Then turning to Macbeth):
They knock. Come, get. Why, how you funk!
Your “ night-gown” out from your shoe-trunk.
And then let's “ hop it."
We’ve gore upon our “ fives,” my dear.
And if old Banquo finds us here,—
Why, we shall “ cop it."
Poor Duncan’s got his gruel— some !
And Malcolm now must “ hump his drum ■ —
Geod gracious, how you shiver 1
Why, when I went in through that door,
I prodded—just to make things sure—
Ten big holes in his liver.
We’ve “ laid the dead un " —won the race
We hold the two bow’rs and the ace—
What! —a general, and crying ?
Cheer up, old dearhark, some one calls! —
He’ll have the best of funerals.
And I won’t go to shying.
(Double cellar-flags and exeunt.)
This would bring down the house for a certainty.
However, we charge nothing extra for the suggestion.
Miss Fanny would be welcome to even more valuable
professional hints than this did she require them. If
she does, she can let us know.
♦ * *
We have not heard yet whether Mr. Williamson
intends taking over the female members of the chorus
with him; but for the sake of our Melbourne cousins
we trust he does not. Anyhow, he might with advantage
weed out Mrs. Daniel Lambert, and one or two vocalists,
who, by reason of their extreme scragginess are almost
invisible when in profile. Some of these young ladies
who are perpetually scanning the pit benches in search
of their " soldier ” might with advantage be left behind,
and those giddy young creatures of 76 and upwards
whose teeth are gone and whose voices are going, will
not, we trust, be taken to Melbourne and billed to re-
present the vocal talent of Sydney. Little Hebe will,
of course, go, for a prettier child could not be found,
and we suppose Miss Nellie Playfair will also be dans
cette galere on account of the unrivalled mellowness of
her voice and the spontaneous vivacity of her acting. If
this young lady is taken from us we shall weep, of
course, but perhaps after long years we shall manage to
smile again. What we wonder, though is, how Mel-
bourne will be able (we borrow an expression of Mr.
Samuel Weller’s) “ to bear up agin sich a reglar knock
down of talent.’’
* * .* *
The Company atthe Queen’s Theatre on Saturday
deserted Dion Boucicault, and swore allegiance to the
late Tom Taylor—producing “ The Overland Boute," a
comedy written by that gentleman for the artistes at
the London Haymarket, in, we believe, 1860. We, pre-
viously to witnessing this play, as performed by the
company which luxuriate under the management of Mr.
Keogh, have always considered the “ Overland Boute’*
to be a highly humorous comedy; but since we have
seen it produced at the Queen’s Theatre, we have come
to the pleasing conclusion that Tom Taylor’s play is the
funniest piece on record. When we say “ funny” we
speak advisedly, for so carious was the representation
that “ the humour of it” rested a good deal more with
the raise en scene than with the actors. In short, the
piece was a shriek right through; but, unfortunately
for the author (happily now dead !) the shriek we allude
to invariably came in at the wrong place.
♦ * ♦
Ambition is evidently a failing with Mr. Keogh.
Mr. K. is accredited with undoubted administrative
powers, and in his credentials we believe far more than
we do in, say, the Koran. We do not question for a
moment that Miss Marian Willis’s husband would make
an excellent general, and at the head of a regiment—the
Mulligan Guards, for instance —would cause devastation
in any country ; but, at the same time, we cannot but
consider that his abilities, so far as the direction of
theatrical representation is concerned, are considerably
hampered by limits. Mr. Keogh has a small theatre,
and he produces big plays; an unimportant company
and he produces important dramas. He has an in-
different scenic artists, and goes in for big “ effects.”
In short, his ideas are gigantic and his resources Lilli,
putian ; therefore the result, as may well be imagined,
resembles in a great degree the square pegs and the
round holes of the historical parable. In short, the
dramas produced at the Queen’s, having originally Seen
written for big theatres and tried performers, are, as
produced by Mr. Keogh, as much like the real thing as
a Domain ecclesiastic is like the angel Gabriel.
* * *
The acting, taken all through, was on the whole
an improvement on that we have seen previously pro-
duced at this house under the present management.
This is not saying much, but it is saying a little; and
we like to say something, if ever so little, in favour of a
company of struggling artists. Mr. Hoskins was, of
course, the Mr. Lovibond of the comedy, and a very
good Mr. Lovibond he would have made had he been
some fifty years younger. Nevertheless, our ancient
friend was amusing throughout, and stood out in
pleasing contradistinction to the other performers by
possessing at any rate a comparatively complete know-
ledge of the text. Mr. Haygarth, as Tom Dexter, was,
we are perfectly willing to admit, intelligent; but he
should learn that surgeons of the P. and O. boats do
not, as a rule, grasp the captain’s arm more than three
times in five minutes, nor, so far as our experience goes,
is the doctor of a mail steamer permitted to “ blow his
’bacca” with impunity all day long in the faces of the
passengers. Mr. Sterling Whyte made a fair Mr. Cole-
pepper, and Mr. J. P. O’Neil was highly successful as
Major M‘Turk, causing roars of laughter whenever he
appeared. Mr. Arrowsmith, a young gentleman whom
we before knew as Mr. Eyan, was a funny Capt. Claver-
ing ; and Mr. Sweeny did all he could in the small role
of the Commander of the Simoom. Mr. H. Stoneham
was put up in the part of the Detective, which was to
be regretted, inasmuch as he totally failed to grasp even
the merest shadow of the author’s idea.
* * *
Of the ladies, Miss Marian Willis was “ con-
scientious ” as Mrs. Sebright. Could we say more,
we would do so willingly, for to give Miss Marian a
lift is our life’s dream. Miss Nellie Montague was sur-
prisingly good as Mrs. Lovibond; but the Miss Cole-
pepper of Miss Edwards was quite “ Eomaniac ” in its
amateurishness. Miss Grace Henriques made a feeble
Mrs. Qrimwood—the petites being evidently dis-
appointed that she did not break out in a “cellar-flap.”
* * *
The mise en scene was evidently regarded by the
audience as a practical joke on the part of the manage-
ment, and was therefore accepted in a good-natured
spirit. We have, however, seen old shoes and cabbages
thrown at far better scenery. In conclusion, we may
state that although we .trust the “Overland Boute”
will please the public, we are very much afraid that it
will not.
* * * *
Things at the Opera House continue in statu
quo. Our coloured brethren are still singing new songs
and cracking old jokes, dancing fresh dances and bang-
ing one another in familiar farces, and their fooling has
evidently “ got” a very large section of the general
public “by the wool.” Their show is all bustle. The
moment the chair business is “ through,” the banging
about commences, and lasts through the evening.
Hardly any performer is on his legs for two consecutive
minutes, and flour, the waddy, and the air-bladder are
in constant requisition. The band is really capital, and
the antics of the eight end men must be seen to be
believed. They are never still—excepting, of course,
during the solemn solos, sudh as, “ Father's in the
watch-house boozed/* and the like, but they are full of
the drollest antics. Mr. Wolfe is the manager, and he
keeps the thing well together; so, although the Masto-
dons have always the Woffe at the door in one sense,
they are not likely to have it in another.
* * *
Talking of the Opera House, by the way, we
hear, that Mr. Wilson, the scenic artist, as agent for
Mr. John; Bennett, has purchased from Luscombe
Searrell the Australian copyright of his opera “The
Wreck of the Pinafore." The score is very good, we
know —the libretto only so, so —we hear. Miss Teresa
Horan, we understand, and her sister have been re-
tained to play in the “ Wreck,” as the elder young lady
was through New Zealand with it with Lingard and
Searrell, and therefore is familiar with the music and
the “ biz.” We see by the country papers that South s
“ Pinafore” company, with whom the Miss Horans are
now travelling, are doing a splendid business, and the
press is lavish in its praises on all parties concerned.
And this reminds us that in a par. last week we made a
small mistake. We said that during the indisposition
of Mrs. South at Dubbo, Miss Teresa Horan assumed
the role of Buttercup, and Miss Eugenie that of
Josephine. This is reversing the state of affairs.
Miss Teresa was engaged by Mi. South for Buttercup,
and has played that part with gi-eat applause for now
many weeks, but, on Miss Edith Pender being laid up*
took the part of Josephine, while her sister (Hebe) ful-
filled the arduous duties of Sweet Little Buttercup.
Having thus relieved our consciences, let us resume the
petit bonhomme de chemin.
We understand that Messrs. Wolfe and E. B
Lewis have finally arranged for the production, on
Saturday, the;2lst inst., of a burlesque on “ Pinafore,
by a Sydney writer, entitled “ H M.S. Pun-no-fear. in
would seem that, so tenacious is Mr. J. C. Williamson


of the “ Penzance ” music, that he would not permit a
tangle air to be used in the burlesque that was con-
templated by the Mastodons. J. C. (excuse the irreve-
rence !) has, however, given the Opera House crowd,
and their author, permission to avail themselves of
what music in that popular opera, "Pinafore,” they
Uke for their travestie. Farther particulars next
week. See small bills—we mean, see The Bulletin.
* * * *
Mr. W. Hoskins takes a benefit on Friday next
(to-morrow), and will appear in the “ Game of Specu-
lation ” and the “ Serious Family.” We wish the old
gentleman a bumper house, and what is more, we shall
endeavour in a humble way to bring about that
desirable contingency. First, by reminding our con-
stituents (and they are legion) of the great and varied
talents of this great actor; and second, by taking tickets
for his ben. —and what is more, paying for them.
* * * *
Our old friend Dick Thatcher is, we see, con-
tributing to the N. Z. Public Opinion, and sending his
people, the Cardens, along at a great rate. Mark how
he “ lays it on ”“ Still harping on matters theatrical,
I note that amongst my fellow-passengers, and the
best of them, the Duke and other nobles not excepted,
were a number of professional gentlemen and ladies
coming down to support Mr. Carden and Miss Marston
Leigh, whom I can congratulate upon having such
people as confreres et sceurs. I don’t know better old
stock, standard and reliable people than the M’Gowans
and Old Jack Walsh. Sefton is my ideal of a heavy
man. West, in parts requiring dignity and lungs,
hasn’t his living equal; and Miss Watt-Tanner is
certainly the best of all the juveniles who have come
to the front since Lena Cary’s and Hattie Shepparde’s
time. Nor must I forget to mention Mr. Gerald Dillon.
Then I see Miss Maggie Knight joins the company,
with Miss Adele, a relation of my dear old friend.
Garnet Walch; and last, but not least, that aspiring
young gentleman. Jemmy O’Brien. With such a com-
a, and such stars as Carden and Miss Leigh, success
t to be certain. By the way, I saw these two
last-named play lately at Oldham, in Lancashire, and
thought them about the best the Old Country pos-
sessed.”
* * *
As a matter of fact, we are sorry to say, Mr.
Carden and Miss Marston Leigh have only so far
scored a moderate success—their fancy piece—“ Proof:
or a Celebrated Case,” not pleasing the unwashed.
This being the case, they lately, in Dunedin, made a
change in their programme, putting on a new comedy
by Gilbert (an adaptation, we expect) called “The
Romantic Family.” Of this piece a Dunedin paper
says“ Mr. Gilbert has assuredly never written any-
thing more whimsically droll than this farce in three
acts, and the roars of laughter that were called forth
on Wednesday were proof of the success it attained."
So far so good. We wish Dick and his crowd all the
success in the world; and, considering that they are
clever people, we should be very sorry to hear of the
public dis-Carden Carden. By the way, all this reminds
us that —
When in the papers we read it that our Dick was
wedded.
Anew;
We never once doubted, but merely just shouted
“ Hurroo! ”
* * * *
There is a cheerful simplicity about American
papers sometimes that is peculiarly refreshing. Read
this, now, from the Clipper :—“ May Hamilton re-
cently presented her husband, W. F. Healy, the solo-
flutist of Thatcher and Eyman’s Minstrels, Phila-
delphia, with a fine girl baby. She will shortly be
christened Frank Wade Healy, in honor of Frank H.
Wade, a Philadelphia physician, who is an intimate
friend of her parents. This will be the fourth pro-
fessional infant that has been named for the doctor
within as many months.” Gentlemen of the medical
profession appear to get on very well with certain ac-
tresses, though we have not yet heard of any Austra-
lian theatrical youngster having the doctor for its god-
father.
* * * *
The new theatrical rage in Paris, now that Sara
is in America, is Madame Pasca. The novelty about
this lady is not that she is wonderfully clever, but that
she is severely virtuous.
* * * *
The Lynch Family of Bellringers are travelling
through New South Wales, en route for Queensland.
It is about time these boys had some new songs and
wheezes written for them —and also learned a few fresh
airs on their tinklers. Harry Lynch manages, and
does it well, too. If he has one fault, though, it is in
sending “communicated” pars, about the show to
country newspapers, and forgetting all about the advt.
But that is a fault on the right side, anyhow—on the
side of the Lynches.
■lf *
Now that the world seems to have gone mad
about comic opera, it may interest our readers to learn
that two new Parisian successes—“ La Mascotte,” by
Andran, composer of “Olivette,” and "Javot,” the
music by Lecocq, and the libretto by Meilhac and
Halevy, are being “ done with English” by Mr. Eamie
and other equally celebrated adapters. Of ‘La Mascotte,’
we know nothing, but the doings of Javot are similar to
those of Tittlebat Titmouse in Warren’s “£IO,OOO a
Tear.” The music of both productions is said to be
full of exquisite melodies. “ Billee Taylor” is yet in
the height of his popularity in London, where Olivette
is in its second year. These two pieces are said to com-
pletely “ knock the stuffing” out of “ Pinafore.”
Doubtless we shall shortly be able to judge for our-
selves.
* * * *
The Tambour-Major is a success in Adelaide,
and has completely “ put the set ” on Garner’s Theatre,
where the remains of the London Comedy Company
have been playing the “ Upper Crust,” and on the
Town Hall concerts by the remnant of the Austrian
Band. In announcing the Tambour crowd, Adelaide
Punch remarks: —“ We had the pleasure of hearing
this delightful operatic production in the Bijou Theatre,
Melbourne, and can confidently assure Adelaide theatre-
goers that they have a grand treat in store for them.”
The intention of this little Punch is good, but the execu-
tion is indifferent. Musgrove’s company performed
at the Opera House. The cotrpany, by-the-way, com-
prises 73 persons.- They need have good houses to make
that army pay !
* * * *
Frank Weston has been engaged for the lead-
ing character in “One Hundred Wives” at Booth’s
Theatre, William Harris not being well enough to ap-
pear.” Surely the Clipper can’t mean our very own
Wizard Oil—(we give the idea for nothing)—Prince. If
so we are indeed undone!
We must repine
Sans oil of thine,
O versatile banjoist I
With all our ills.
Without thy pills.
We’ll sink down to the lowest.
That funny oil
That used to soil
Our cuffs, and run onr palm right through ;
That oil which thou.
So well knew how.
All countries, Frank, to palm right through.
And art thou gone ?
Then we’re forlorn!
Return! —It for our sake will be.
We think of thee
And wonder, see,
Whatever thy next “fake” will be.
Who shall say, now. that we never lavish a gratuitous
ad. on the profession ?
* * * *
Mr. Henry Gershon has written a local drama,
which is, so rumour has it, to be produced in Sydney
shortly. We never, to the best of our knowledge, ever
heard of Mr. Gershon before, but we have no doubt that
he is very nice, and that his play is quite more so.
Referring to this dramatical emanation from the
Gershonic brain, the Evening Climax remarks: “To
judge by the favourable testimonials we have seen, as
regards the plot, dialogue incidents, &c., it is certain
to be appreciated by the Sydney play-going public. We
wish the author every success.” We wish it success,
too; but we may as well say that it is a bad
line to hawk M.S. about for puerile puffs, which
usually not only have the effect of making the public
smile, but of causing’them to damn a piece with more
expedition than they otherwise would do. The play
should stand or fall on its own merits. When the drama
is produced, we shall have something to say about it,
but pending that event we shall decline to accord Mr.
Gershon for, indeed, any other soaring dramatist) either
the “puff direct, the puff collusive, or the puff ob-
lique.”
** * *
Things are quite lively in the theatrical line at
Perth, a city, we are told—and confidently believe—is in
Western Australia. One of the Hyperion Company
writes : —“ I have lately received a chatty letter from
Perth, Western Australia, on musical matters in that
city. It is dated Saturday, March 26, and tells of the
arrival there of the Hyperion Opera Company. ‘We
arrived here (Perth) by the steamer Otway on Tuesday
last, March 21, after a very pleasant voyage from Ade-
laide. Our troupe consists of Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Harding (Miss E. Leaf), Mr. Barry O’Neil (buffo vocal-
ist and comedian), Mr. Charles H. Compton (musical
director), and Mr. B. W. Kohler (the musical wonder
and king of instrumentists, who is manager of the com-
pany). We open on March 28. We were glad to meet,
almost as soon as we landed, young Alfred Sylvester,
son of the Fakir of Oulu, and himself no mean professor
of the magic art. Young Alfred is now landlord of the
Freemasons' Hotel, the most comfortable house in the
town.’ ” This crowd ought to draw like a linseed
poultice. We shall be glad to hear how they are
getting on. Write, Barry! “ Thou art so near audyet
so far! ”
** * *
On Saturday next, a benefit is to be given to
the widow and family of the late Mr. F. Coppin, who
was leader of the orchestra at the Melbourne Theatre
Royal. The press have killed poor Fred, several times,
but we are afraid that this time his decease is un fait
accompli. Mr. Coppin was a good, painstaking musi-
cian, and his “runs” and “hurrys” in pieces of a
melo-dramatio nature used to be highly popular with
the gods.
Well—good-bye, Fred., to whom soft strains were dear,
Thou’st left us for a better, brighter sphere—
A place where lovely angels sing, they say.
And tootle sweetly on bright trumps all day.
“ Farewell,” we cry from this dark world of sin,—
We’ll meet in Heaven — if they’ll let us in.
** * *
It ia now authoritatively asserted that Adelina
Patti will visit the United States, and possibly Australia
and New Zealand in October, to remain two • years,
bringing with her M. Nicolini, the great tenor, Mme.
Trebelli, the contralto, and Cotogni, the baritone.
** * *
An Auckland correspondent writes by last mail:
“The Theatre Royal is still occupied by Simonsen’s
Opera Company, who have succeeded in drawing good
payable houses, during the last three weeks, at high
prices of admission. The company give general satis-*
faction in Italian, but the English operas are far from
good. The season terminates on May 7th. Simonsen
is well satisfied, and has no reason at present to regret
his visit to Auckland. New Plymouth is the next town
billed.—Lotti Wilmot draws wretched houses at her
Sunday evening lectures. —Haselmayer and wife open
here about 24th May.”
** * *
At the Gaiety, “ Maritana ” still runs to en-
thusiastic ker-rowds. The management is therefore
jubilant. The great “L.M.’s” moustache is spikier
than ever; the genial Johnny’s smile is blander than of
yore; and Jimmy Cox’s time is so much taken up with
books of the night’s receipts that he has no time to
make one on the Parramatta Handicap. Altogether,
things are rosy. We are glad of this. We like Mr.
Turner, and we adore Miss Montague. We revere Mr.
Farley, and we dearly love our very own Basto. Before
Mr. Gordon we prostrate ourselves as before an idol.
For Miss Lambert we must have a tenderness. As
Lazarillo she has been a distinguished success, her
acting and singing being most artistic.
** * *
“Michel Sfcrogoff” is only a comparative suc-
cess at the London Adelphi, and “The World” is on
again at Covent Garden. This sensational drama will
shortly be produced here by our beloved “ Bland.” Let
us hope it may Merritt the success which it has attained
in “ a far countree.”
** * *
“A Priceless Wife” has lately been produced
in London. As may be imagined, the title of the play
excited great curiosity.
** * *
A new and original drama entitled “ Struck
Oil” will be produced at the Royal next Saturday.
The leading characters in it, we are told, are an old
Dutchman and his daughter. We can’t vouch for the
accuracy of this, as the man who runs the show has
determined to keep the plot a profound secret until
opening night. A lady named Maggie Moore makes
her ddbfit on the occasion. It’s stated that she is
clever, but as our authority for this is Mr. J. C. Wil-
liamson, advance agent for, and therefore interested in,
the show, we must wait and see.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The “ suck-in edeeshun ” of Thursday’s Even-
ing Trouble jocosely informs its unfortunate readers
that at the Mastodon Minstrel show, “ some excellent
clog-dancing and negro sketches are given nightly,
sending the audience home in a peculiarly happy frame
of mind.” A rival journalist says “he’s been there
himself,” but it wasn’t the well-corked Mastodons who
sent him into the “ peculiarly happy frame of mind.”
As near as he can recollect, all the fun was caused by
the uncorked Hennessy’s.
* * *
At the anti-double-line meeting, the other even-
ing at the Temperance Hall, Aid. Lees addressed the
chair, wherein sat the Mayor, as “ Mr. Speaker.” Now,
apart altogether from the fact that the Right Worship-
ful is no speaker, it may be observed that Mr. Lees has
never yet been in Parliament. However, we hope he’ll
soon be there, for he’s evidently in the habit of holding
forth at home to the big arm chair. Demosthenes used
to wander by the sad sea waves, and practice declama-
tion ; and Mr. Purves, the leading advocate of Victoria,
makes no secret of the fact that in his earlier days he
used to stand by the bole of a big gum tree and abuse it,
by way of “ getting his hand in.” But we’d strongly
recommend Mr. Lees, instead of addressing the old arm
chair, to address himself in future to the Town Hall
foundations.
* * *
A few weeks ago an American newspaper was
delivered at the office of a Sydney journal, containing
the following extract: —“The worthless bits of worn-
out-shoes Are converted into Jamaica rum, by a process
known only to the manufacturers. It is said they are
boiled in pure spirits and allowed to stand for a few
weeks, and that the product far surpasses Jamaica rum
made In the ordinary way.” Since this, not a single old
boot has been found within a mile of the Morning Bum
office.
* * *
The N. Y. Clipper has a large woodcut
labelled “ Elias Laycock,” which is a magnificent por-
trait of—somebody else.
* * *
Fired by the success of Dr. Eodanow (who, we
are game to bet a “monkey,” will be acquitted),
another watch company—in England this time — is giving
the N. Zealand papers a turn. The advertiser, who
hails merely from Manchester, and who has no colonial
agent, generously states, “that with every watch we
will give a written guarantee to clean and repair, free of
charge, for three years.” We have no doubt whatever
that this guarantee will be given in perfect good faith
—with the watch.
* * *
“ On Sunday, a girl of 16 stole and rode off with
a horse, saddled and bridled, hitched to the fence of the
Presbyterian Church, at Ballan, and gave the police a
chase of 25 miles to catch her.” This is, of course, an
extract. But the cream of the joke is this : that when,
after “busting” themselves, and “busting” their
horses, they, after threatening the runaway with round-
shot and grapnel, induced her to rein up, she calmly
told them that the horse was her uncle’s, and that she
was riding for a doctor for “ mother,” who had that
morning found a little brother under a geranium plant
in the font garden.
* *
“ On Wednesday, at Cooma Police Court, the
Police Magistrate and Mr. John Elihu Body, J.P., fined
David O’Eourke, publican. Is. for supplying grog during
prohibited hours on Sunday last; and Patrick Dillon,
saddler, who drank the grog, was fined 10s." Now, this
one of those things which no fellah can understand.
What we want to know is: were the magistrates of
Cooma in a state of Cooma at the time ? We should
like to Coomat the solution of this mystery.
# # *
“ Moody and Sankey have ceased their revival
labours in San Francisco, and-declare themselves disap-
pointed in the results, so far as the number converted
is concerned.”
So Moody’s more moody than evah.
And Sankey’s condition is “ thin."
They say that they really, no, nevah.
Saw converts so hard to “ rake in.”
Is the meaning of this, now, we wonder—
(We don’t like to hint it we own;
But we’ll risk it just this once, by thunder) —
That the people begin to “ drop down?”
* m *
That section of the general public which care-
fully spells through The Bulletin weekly will have
noticed that, if we dearly love one portion of the com-
munity more than another, it is the reverend gentle-
men (of all denominations) who look after the welfare
■of our souls. This being the case, we are sorry to have
to chronicle the fact that these holy persons do not, in
their little nests, agree. It would seem that there is
one clergyman here who, for some reason or other, has
given offence to another clergyman. The offended
reverend accordingly wishes to lash his opponent, but
not caring to risk his own money in a libel action, is
good enough to forward us a poem, which, did we print
it entire, original heading and all, would cost us, on a
rough reckoning, £2,000,000. Our correspondent, who
signs “Justitia,” is evidently very sore. From the
tone of his poem, we should evidently infer that he has
“ lost his girl,” and that the other parson has found
her. Clergymen, it is notorious, are celebrated for
their venom, Churchill was a parson, and his
“ Prophecy of Famine ” is the most virulent Phillipio
in the language. Giffard also, and his “ Epistle to
Peter Pindar ’’ is a dreadful tirade of foul abuse—well
merited, perhaps, but none the less in execrable taste.
Well, “ Justitia,” though not such a good poet as
either Churchill or Gifford, takes a leaf out of the book
of each. We will quote a few passages of his effusion,
and then treat him to a little lesson in heroics, which
we have, for a leng time, intended to administer to the
would-be libellous who are good enough to favor us
with their communications. “ Justitia” begins mildly.
He says
“ When, like a snake, he creeps within your walls.
And the black slime betrays him as he crawls.
By all your reverence, esteem and love.
Oh, spare no pains the reptile to remove;
And crush the wretch ere he assail the life
Of husband, daughter, mother, wife."
Then a little further on :
“ Mission of Mercy! Oh, my gracious God!
Say rather one of rapine, lust and blood.
On which thy guilty soul can fondly dwell.
From which thou drink’st as from a living well.
Thou foul, accursed minister of Hell I”
The ending benediction is as follows:
“ When foul diseases on thy body prey.
And thou shalt fall from light and life away.
Thy carcass rotting ere the soul goes home.
Even then, clear-sounding through the general doom,
A long-familiar voice shall bid thee “ Come !”
And demons welcome, with high hearts elate.
The foul, accurst, abandoned reprobate !”
If the state of things exist that “ Justitia ”
would imply, he knows perfectly well that he has his
remedy. But so far as we are concerned, we do not
believe that there is a word of truth in his communi-
cation —which, by the way, he has got his eldest boy to
copy out in foolscap—apparently with a tin stylus. To
“Justitia," therefore, we consecrate, with yells, the
following:—
Most holy man! —ah, what a heart is thine!—
A heart in which all sacred virtues shine;
In thy breast lies that charity, so warm.
That many preach, but yet so few perform !
Unlike most mortals, thou, a kindly elf.
Dost love thy brother better than thyself!
O pattern man! by Nature thou’rt design’d
To teach the wicked and to lead the blind.
With every gentle feeling in thy breast.
Thou to all sinners canst impart “ sweet rest.”
All this thou art—or, if thou’rt not this same.
Come, say what art thou —in the Devil’s name !
* * *
We have frequently found occasion to take the
sawdust out of the bards who inundate the Sydney
newspapers with their lucubrations, and expect nothing
in return for them but the glory of beholding them-
selves in print. In satirising these bardlings, our
object has been to teach them —if not to cease writing,
at least to write better; and we have good reason to
believe that we have been literally successful in our
efforts. In justice, however, to Alfred’s laureates and
others, we must admit that their unpaid contributions
are no worse (if as bad) as some of the “ high-toned"
and highly-paid effusions which are to be found in some
of the American papers. Here, for instance, is a poem
called—“ Hark ! from the Tombs, —a Tale of Woe,” and
which is written for the New York Clipper by Edmund
E. Price. The Tomb, Mr. Price says, is:—
“ A dismal pile of ashen gray, •
Whose very aspect makes one shudder ;
Egyptian style the structure is—
There crime and death are link’d together.” (sic)
Then he stretches his memory with the following
curiously-rhymed result: —
“ I remember well a colored man—
I think his name was Robert Johnson—
For cruelty to a lop-ear’d mule
Arrested was by Roundsman Thompson.” (sic)
Not much better is “Homeless To-night,” by Harry
Hogan. Mark now, how Harry grinds his Hogan—we
mean his " horgan” :
“ I have stopped each stranger passing,
And told to all my tale of woe;
With scorn they look, their path resuming.
Not caring to hear of my sorrow.
Perhaps at their homes all is cheerful,
Andicomfort and pleasure reign in time’s flight
But to me all is desolate and fearful.
For I’m footsore and homeless to-night.”
We have read nothing worse than this since Lewis
Scott’s now time-honored “ Opening Address.”
* m *
If ever the Presbyterian gets into a libel
action, we will be glad to stand the racket, on the
principle that “ one good turn deserves another.” If we
happen at any time to find the news market dull, we
but turn to our Presbyterian, and up goes the gauge
of our humour-glass. The other day our contemporary
gave a highly interesting, not to say instructive, extract
from the Herald op Health (edited, we believe, by
Mrs. Besant), on the subject of marriage. We’d have
been glad to have reprinted this article, but were under
the impression at the time that it had already gone the
rounds of the religious Press, and we didn’t like to be
anticipated. Now, however, we have an article we can
deal with; we do not think it has yet been copied into
the other religious prints. The article is on “ Personal
Cleanliness,” and “ is addressed to a class of females.”
Of course we start off with the assumption that our
reverend contemporary knows best what suits its
readers. Then we go on: —“ As all people are continu-
ally drawing in air, and breathing out the waste or spent
air, and are at least three times a day taking in fresh
supplies of food and drink, which are likewise disposed
of Jjy familiar means, so," &c., &c. We stop hereto
remark how familiar those reverend editors make them-
selves at times. The article proceeds:—“ Every woman
should wash herself ’’ —on which point we suggest that
some men also should be soused. Again we read: —
“The stockings should be washed”—but we’ll go no
farther. The suggestive reverend editor must be left
alone. The article is well worth perusing. It has given
rise to one or two reflections in our mind. Will anyone
pretend to say that Presbyterian ladies, usually the
moat correct in domestic habits, require such nonsense
served up to them in their newspaper P Or will anyone
pretend to say that the religious editor, on the average, is
of any greater mental calibre than the muffin-vendor of
the highway?
V.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
(BY MAROOGALINE.)
On Monday the Hon. W. H. Walsh, our darlin?
“ William Henry,” onr senatorial Argentes, saw a youth
from the Milton brewery, stalking an egret, a white
crane, in front of his house, and William at once
sounded, the tocsin of battle, and raised the war-cry of
the Walshes ; but the daring poacher fired, and the
murdered egret stained the duckweed with his blood.
William leaped into his chariot, and seizing the reins,
drove his fiery untrained Bellerophon down on the
sportsman in full career. Seeing William coming, the
beer-brewing Nimrod fled towards the brewery and con-
cealed himself, while the irate senator drove up to the
fence, leaped out of his chariot, crossed the railway
line, and entered the brewery in pursuit. The brewery
men were collected at a side door, all looking charm-
ingly innocent of anything but a knowledge of malt and
hops. William stood and confronted them, his hair on
end and coat-tails a-flying, a volcano on the eve of a
terrible eruption, demanding in a tremendous voice the
name and address of the “ dastardly scoundrel that
dared to shoot that bird!” Of course all those brewery
men were quite surprised—“ first they had heard about
it,” etc. Then William, like the young Icilins, “ tore
his hair, and scratched his head, and smote upon his
breast, and scowling on those brewery men, with voice
both loud and clear, poured thick and fast the scorching
words that poachers quake to hear.” But no bird and
no gunner could be found, and William's eagle eye
glared round in vain. One of the men had the audacity
to ask him if he would have a glass of beer, and came
near to being tom in pieces on the spot. So William
went back to his chariot, and at the same time a young
man with a gun and a dead crane came down out of the
brewery loft, and • went home the back way by an
unfrequented rotate.
A pastoral millionaire, whom I shall in these
days of blackmailing libel actions call Smith,
has always been distinguished by excruciating economy.
Many years ago he made his first steamer trip
from Sydney to Melbourne, and, not knowing
that his fare included diet, he took a carpet-bag
filled with biscuits, cheese, and corned beef, and
dieted himself. The steamer was storm-bound in Two-
fold Bay, and Smith’s carpet-bag was empty. After
passing one day on an empty stomach, he said to the
steward, “ What do you charge for meals aboard this
ship ?” Then he learned that his fare included every,
thing, and Smith went down the cabin stairs six steps
at a time, and if that steamer had been storm-bound a
few days longer, there would have been a famine on
board.
About a thousand people of both sexes were
emptied out of the train at Stanthorpe on Tuesday, to
see the opening ceremony. J. De Poix Tyrel, M.L.A.,
was there in all the majesty of 18 stone enveloped in
store clothes, wildly waving in his right hand a wooden
battle-axe, as leader of the regiment of Oddfellows —
“ He was tall and upright, about six feet in height
His complexion was what you’d denominate “ light,”
With a plum-eating mouth, and a Cupidon lip.
And a fine Roman nose, rather red at the tip.”
About two hundred people sat down to the banquet.
A sarcastic winebibber opposite to me wanted to
know if the champagne was made in Stanthorpe
or Glasgow. I took just one glass, and for the
next four hours at least was possessed with a
maniacal desire to murder the whole population. There
was a small army of pressmen present, and they gave
an elevated and intellectual tone to the proceedings.
The young and blushing Morgan of the Warwick
Argus, the God-fearing Germain of the Queensland
Times, the unsophisticated Keith of the Advocate,
the anecdotal Leigh of the Observer, and the Gaelic-
speaking Blackstock of the D. D. Gazette. At the
centre table sat Bobby Byrne of Punch immortality,
wrestling impotently with a ten-year-old chicken, and
gazing in silent but expressive disdain at his half-
emptied champagne glass, while he asked the waiter if
there was no Mackay rum available—some beverage in
fact that would be likely to inspire him with winged
thoughts and dazzling jokes, instead of a champagne
that was hurrying him on to self-destruction. There,
too, sat the sombre Buzacott trying to think what
would be the best policy for the Courier for the follow-
ing week ; and there, too, sat Meston, wondering if the
worship of the Sacred Ibis could ever be revived, and
sighing over the decadence of banquets since the
Epicurean days of Vitellius and Heliogabalus. There
was the “ local editor,” the Corinthian Pillar of the
Border Post, a very nice genial fellow, who uninten-
tionally became his own panegyrist by telling me he
intended to subscribe at once to The Bulletin, a con-
clusive proof of highly cultivated literary taste and
natural ability. Dickson, the ex-Treasurer, sat next
to Palmer, the Col. Sec., but wanted us all to know
that this betokened no change in his politics. Palmer
rose to observe sarcastically that the Ministry would
decline to have Dickson at any price, though he be-
lieved he could be had cheap at the present time.
Palmer discharged that sharp Parthian shaft with great
gusto, but secretly he cherishes a most ungodly and
unchristian feeling for Dickson. Groom, in responding
for the Parliament, said he had no land in the colony,
but he had eight children whom he intended to be good
colonists. This is a favourite democratic senti-
ment (borrowed from the Vicar of Wakefield)
with Groom, one that he believes must always stamp
him as “one of the people,” an egaliU badge to
captivate the Toowoomba Jacobins. Meston, in re-
sponding for the " Press,” said if he believed the merits
of a colonist were determined by the number of his
children he could become the leading colonist of
Queensland, a sentiment which brought down the
house in stormy acclamations. Altogether it was a
grand corrobboree, a splendid and successful stomach-
disorganising festival in which all were elevated—about
3000 feet above the level of the sea.
Many people who went to Stanthorpe without
umbrellas went home with good second-hand samples,
and many who took umbrellas with them went home
without them. There was also a trifling interchange of
hats and overcoats. I was just in time to seize a
man who was placidly walking away with my hat en,
having lost his own and taken the first to hand. I ob-
served to him that he had a narrow escape, as the
electric aura of genus lingering about the hat of a
pressman would shatter the untenanted heads of
chemists and other common men like soft nutshells!
With an emaciated smile he started for another hat.
The time is not far off when MTI wraith and
Griffith will be back, but neither will have a fair chance
to expatiate on the Steel Bail Enquiry until the House
meets about the middle or end of July. There is a
prospect of the next session being as much embittered
as the last with this miserable business. My own
opinion has remained unchanged since the first mention
of Hemmant’s petition. I have always believed that
the whole thing was a gigantic mare’s nest, and that
Griffith was led astray by totally unreliable information.
I have ever regarded M’llwraith as completely innocent
of the whole transaction. It was really a smart com-
mercial speculation by men possessing a foreknowledge,
that could be easily acquired by legitimate means,
without the honour of any one of the Government
being involved in any way whatever. Public opinion
has undergone a mighty change lately, and even the
most rabid of the original believers in the complicity of
the Premier are ready to admit that he has been grossly
maligned. If the law of Antoninus Pius were revived,
that all those who uttered slanders and could not prove
them must be hanged, there would be a tremendous
stimulus given to ropemaking.
An M.L. A. who slept in the next room to Bobby
Byrne, at Warwick, after the banquet at Stanthorpe,
told me that 8.8. groaned in the most soul-rending
fashion, and once or twice emitted a wild yell that
curldled the blood like O.P. rum in new milk. Such
was the fearful Nemesis that followed the inordinate
consumption of pastry, bad champagne, and octogena-
rian chickens. It is said he dreamed that Swanwick
sat oh his breast all night, and read copious extracts
from the Government Gazette and Pring’s Statutes.
Walter Hill, ex-Curator of the Botanic Gardena,
has escaped from the prosecution against him for de-
stroying and removing plants. It was a mean and
disreputable charge to bring against an old and faithful
servant of the country, and I am in a position to say
that the prosecution originated in dastardly malice on
the part of one or two who kept carefully in the back-
ground. We are all very proud and pleased that the
old man came free out of it. It was one of those cases
which show that the character of any man—even the
best men—is to a certain extent at the mercy of any
malicious scoundrel who has an object to gain by start-
ing a slander about him.


Public Compan
C°
MMEECIAL BANKING
SYDNEY.
Established 1834
Incorporated by Act of Co
Capital, £575.000. Eeserve F
Disectors :
Eichard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy,
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., M
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. B, £
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson I
Messrs. Cape and Westg
Head Office—George-str<
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt,
Gaden, Branch Inspc
With Branches at Haymarket, Georj
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombar
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M
Esq.; F. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel Co
Branches in New South Wales
Armi dale, Barraba, Bathurst, Begi
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, 1
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar,
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonan
Cudal, Dnbbo, Dnngog, Forbes,
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundags
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molonj
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twee
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narand
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Que
Eichmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wall
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wei
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Tonng. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisb
Maryborough, and Eockham]
Agencies in the Col
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria,
Australasia, Colonial Bank _ol
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of t
National Bank of Australasia,
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank o
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diem:
New Zealand ; National Bank of 1
Agencies beyond the C
London : The London and Westmi
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union 1
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland: The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank o
San Francisco: The Bank of Br:
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morg!
India, China and Singapore : Th
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lone
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercanti
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of I
China.
Mauritius ; Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, al
fixed deposits, negotiates produce 1
issues drafts or letters of credit, an
lects bills payable at any of the ab
elsewhere, at current rates; collects
in public companies, and interest <
for its customers in the investment
ties in Great Britain or in the colon
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSUEANC
YICTOEIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. 15
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Si
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chai
Ebenezer Vickery, Esi
Andrew Drysdale, Esc
This Society is established for Lif
granting of Annuities and Endowmi
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding 1
proportionate amount of the entir
Society at every distribution therec
LOANS granted on Mortgage or c
combined with Life Assurance.
Public Compan
The meecantile bani
ESTABLISHED If
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP P
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...,
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M,
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hoa. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER;
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Gee
LONDON BANKEI
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapn
Agent—G. H. Alexande
This Bank transacts all usual Baj
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances max
other produce shipped to England f(
c
OENWALL FIEE AND M
ANCE COMPAN
CAPITAL, £100,0(
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A, LLOYD Ah
Agents,
348 GEORQE-STEI
SIDNEY.
Photographs]
458 GEORGE I
Opposite the Maei
PHOTOGEAPHY IN ALL I
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERMj
PARLOUR SI
The Really Popular (and cheap) .
805 GEORGE ST
Opposite the Railway T
Especially esteemed for his porti
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d p«
NOTICE
JEOAETY,
• PHOTOGRAPHER,
604 GEORGE
BRI
Begs to inform his numerous patre
completed extensive alterations ii
ducive to the successful working of
ness, having imported, at great
most modem appliances from the I
and having a staff of first-class a
studying the comfort of his eust<
UNADULTERATED
BAK/A/C POWDER
Wfi
(JIHE
BEST PAINT IN
It
LAST 1C
&
e 22
&
2§HC
THE PACIFIC EUBBEI
is mixed ready for i
supplied in cans containing 1 gal. ;
These cans form a convenient Pa
complete.
Similar testimony to the followinf
ns:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880
EUBBEE PAINT to be all that is
and Bright, and owing to its large
I am inclined to think it is cheaper
My own house was painted with it a
and appears as fresh, clean and glos
last week —the same with the fence
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC B
will cover 35 Square Yards—one o
coats j 18 sq. yards, thr«
Sample Cards of Colours and 1
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge to i
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMS
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, neai
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZAI
(Near Hunter-str
RH E L L
• ELECTEO-PLATEE a
42 Park-street,
SILYEE-PLATED JEY
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by
equal to Solid Silv
Articles of table wear, etc., replal
to wear equal to the
English Electropla
EEMOYED TO 88 ELIZA!
(Near Hunter-str
q; and s! p~e
* SAW MILLS AND TIME
16 Erskine Stbk]
Every description of Foreign an
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, 1
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at
g GLASS
STEAM COACH AND WI
WOEKS,
Habbis-steeet, off Geo:
and
Adjoining the Darling Har
S. G. would beg to draw the par
Export Merchants to the large q
New reflecting lami
KEEOSENE.
w\\
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WI
HARWELL AND FISHEI
GAS BUENEES JUST 1
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFORD, 65 MAR]
rjIHOMAS WEBB
BOND-STEEEI
Beg to inform their customers ths
OPENED a LAEGE CONSIGNM]
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, an
Also,
FANCY C H
AND
QLASSWAEE.
Inspection invit
JR 0 BO N 0 P
THE MUTUAL TEADE PEOTE
TION OP N. S.
J, HUEST, Secret
Offices: 32 BEIDGE STEEE
Established upon the most improvi
for the protection of Merchants i
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, u
the leading Mercantile communil
The following business is underta
or through the intervention of
licitor: —
The recovery of rents and debts
otherwise, by written or personal (
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or ass
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, s
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Eegistered Do<
The Certificates of fradnlent or’unp
opposed in the interests of crei
Debts proved in insolvent estates,


Easiness Annoan
w. H - p A
PIANOPOETE WAE
352 George-stre
PIANOFORTES. PI A
JUST EECEIVED. JUS'
from the
BEST FACTOEIES of EUEOP]
A splendid stock to sel
EVEEY EENOWNED
AMERICAN OR(
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and s
OYEE ALL OTE
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTEENATIOI
HARMONIU]
BY
ALEXANDEE and other EENO
in all the various n
A PEW GOOD SECOND-E
at low prices, now ii
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hi
fortes.
W. Bell, A Co.’s, Horace Water!
and Warren’s, and Smith and
T
352 QEOEGE S
Opposite Wynyard-
Sydney.
HOM A S W
ENGINEEE & lEONI
PIEE
AND
BUEGLAE
PEOOP
SAFES
AND
HOOES.
Works: SUSSEX STEEET, & (
Office and SHOW EOOMS, 22(
mTME onERNMENT 03SER
mm
Ai^BipTje
Tobacconist
JAMES
CELEBRA.TEJ
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cat Baby, Bird's Eye, Gold Let
Best Imported Br
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and i
159 PITT ST:
Next Post Ofiu
*
rO
TIN TAG TOBi
None are genuine but the B
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or TANK!
DIXSON & SO]
15 TOEK STEEET,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIG.A
MILD, FRAGRANT, & :
ft
£
Manufactured b
T. S A TW E
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACO
Clarence-street, Sj
~P] CLAEKE A
Wholesale and Ret
GROCE
Are acknowledged t<
THE BEST TEA IN
THE CHEAPEST I
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES am
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly s
193 OXFORD I
Chemists and Druggists
jpUBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON'S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
’ Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Ehenmatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
681 QEOEGE STEEET.
APOTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STEEET,
Near Htdb Park Corner.
(N.B.—The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies:—
EAMES’S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6, & 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctns, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch's Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, mode by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
M
R. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis-
£joalclipp coal.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON—224olb.
net, not only In view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
It not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled fer GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, Ac., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP POR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened ~)
17s. Ditto single ditto > Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines j
235. Ditto double-screened )
225. Ditto single ditto j Newcastle.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood andCV’ \rcoal, Ac., at current price.
A B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
Chemists and Dn
T
AKE NO MO:
but try
RANDERSON’
PODOPHYLLIN LOZ
Do you SUFFER from HEAP
Then try ]
PODOPHYL
Do you Complain of Indigestk
Take a few doses of
PODOPHYL
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, and
BANDEBSO
Do you constantly suffer from
If so remembi
PODOPHYI
will soon cure, if taken as i
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDK
Are your children sick
can safely give chem one
for the small members of
TAKE WEI
•OP Remember this, and always
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pr
EDWARD ROW and <
45 and 47 Qeorgo-st
B
T EOTAI LETTE
The Greates
WONDER OP THE
JOSEPHSON’f
AUSTRALIAN OINI
Guaranteed tol
Free from all poisonous qualiti
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Plant
in the Bush of New Sou
This Ointment is not a mere ca
public, nor does it require any pul
as it has been so well proved for tl
that it is impossible that the publi
long deceived. In fact, people are i
lous regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot belli
But one trial will convince the no
High and low, rich and poor, hav
fits from its use, and scarcely an
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is bow the household word of the c
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF Tl
which, taken altogether, prove the i
to be the Eighth Wonder of the V
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft con
casualities attending the human fr
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be peril
Joaephson’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephson
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns ar
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriat
tion when a remedy like Jose]
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles ■?
Josephson’s Australian Ointment if
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fr
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S J
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storek
and 1s 6d each throughout the colo
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD EO
ENTRAL PH
78 (Late 84) KING SI


B
LADON’S HEALTH SALE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALE
B LADON’S HEALTH SALE
A combination of Oxygenated
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and O.
Taken according to direction
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is f
ration a remedy as a preventive or ci
all Fnnctionafliregularities of the
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitual
purities ©f the Blood, Sea-Sick
Indigestion, the effects propuced I
dulgence in rich food, ©r the a
beverages ;Gout, Rheumatism, &c.;
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphthe
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, cli
diseases. It is especially serviceabl
and should entirely supersede the
aperients. Children take it with j
vigorating effect of an occasional doi
to successfully combat the insidious ;
It effectually destroys the Poison G(
contracted in our daily walk tbroni
alterative and enriching qualities it
the vital fluid to perform, in a health
functions in the wonderful economy
pi ece —Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chemis
form ‘ BLADON’S HEALTH S
may justly be termed a BLOOD DIS
PPBOYED BY THE
Government
10th Ji
" Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I h
that the parcel was received in goc
reason of my not writing to you befo
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ shot
am now directed to inform yon th
considers it MOST EFPIC AGIO US.
“ I also can vouch for the same, anc
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Tours faithf
“ Reginald
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTE
B
The Australian Churchm
• ** It is &
MOST REFRESHING EFFERYE
We can honestly recomm
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFA
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRU
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, I
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
any jeWellef^/S^
. |V|ADE JO*Ol
pL/\IN f F\ICI| SJQ
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks— simple, strike.
Spectacles, etc., of aH
Plain figures —Low pri(
JI N J O T L
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $
ONE OP THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Ikspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS. |
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
CO
OUR Cl
0
We
Only tho
CD
DC
CD
in
COl
Boys’ am
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of erery
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
B
OurStocl
N
For evei
St
New (
Gents’ S
own :
7/6, woi
Ourimi
chases en
undersell
establish
Weabs
it would
copy, wii
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
I OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLIC
F
ACTS WHICH conger;
AT SOME PERIOD O!
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Housi
Housi
Housi
Housi
•pTTT.T. INFORMATION
House furnishing is not an easy ti
are of great assistance; they show
tainable for certain sums of mony,
many things which might otherwisf
THE NEW GOODS CONSTAi
KEEPS EVERYTHING NICE
If you have £l5 to spend If yot
If you have £25 to spend If yot
If you have £35 to spend If yoi
If you have £5O to spend If yoi
YOU CAN SPEND ]
Advantage
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHES
CAMPBELL BRO
(Late W. B. Campl
ROYAL FURNISHIN
426 & 428 GEORGE i
Next the Royal H
Open every evening until :
I HAVE this day commenct
Stock and Share Broker, anc
NCE USED ALW
HUDSON'S EXTRA
Trade mark " Arm and Dolly ” on i
ont which none is genuine. Bcwi
3
ALW/JV
MARI
TRADE
The GRAND GOLD MED
HIGHEST MEDAL, Pa
HIGHEST AWARD, Syc
LATHERS FREELY, SOFT 1
AND SHOULD ALWAYS B
For Washing Clothes, Linen, D
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Ti
WOMAN ITEMS.
Dry den: “ Love either finda equality or makes
it.’*
Euripides; “Even the very autumn of a form, once fine,
Betaine its summer beauty.”
Epicurus : “ After all, the only gifts which the
gods enjoy is contained in the one word Love.
Francis Bacon “ Those adorned by beauty and
those affected by it are generally shallow alike.” Francis
evidently had a flat nose.
St. Paul; “It is better to marry than bum.”
The apostle, however, never tried either experiment,—
BO we must receive his remarks cum grano sahs,
A little while ago a Northern belle married the
Mayor of another Queensland town. Just after the
ceremony she remarked to a friend, “ I’m a lady mayor
now, Mr. .”
• Solomon: “As the climbing of a sandy way is
to the feet of the aged, so is a wife full of tongue to a
quiet man.” Solomon had 900 wives, and consequently
much experience.
Tennyson ; “ Woman is man’s beacon light
through life.” Alfred forgot to add, however, that the
man has to find the oil, and just now the lamps require
a deal of trimming.
Quintus Cicero; “ Trust not a woman, for every
passing breeze is a woman’s confidant/'
could not have been much married, or he would have
kept the above to himself.
Socrates: “ Women are nothing inferior to men
except in strength of body, and perhaps steadiness of
judgment.” This great philosopher evidently never
saw a woman trying to sharpen a pencil* or throw a
brickbat —or run away from a cow.
Cora Pearl, the notorious ex-demi-mondaine of
Paris, is, according to one of the Paris papers, to be
married to one of her cousins, who was deeply in love
with her some twenty years ago, and has made a tidy
fortune in gold-mining in Australia.
Should the rumoured breach of promise action
against Mr. Ashmead Bartlett Burdett Coutts come off
(says a London paper), the young lady will certainly
have sympathy on her side, and sympathy goes a long
way in damages. It is stated to be a most romantic
affair.
Matthew Arnold’s opinion of the weaker sex
tends to show he studied his pleasing subject closely.
Matthew says—
“ They ask not kindness; gentle ways,”
Which they themselves have tried and known.
They ask a soul that never sways
With the blind guests that shake their own.
Henry Ward Beecher; “A babe is a mother s
anchor. She cannot swing far from her moorings. And
yet how far do her thoughts stray when beside that
cradle. Baby is the boldest of pilots, and guides her
fearless thoughts down through scenes of coming years.
The old ark never made such a voyage as is daily made
by that small cradle.”
“ Sour Grapes ” writes from Tass, in reference
to a paragraph in last issue ; —“ You are rather hard on
the Yass girls. If you could see the ‘ eligible young
men we have here, maybe you’d think there was some
excuse for * jumping at the chance of anything in the
shape of a man from another town.’ We will be very
hard up when we jump at the ones here.”
When Elizabeth, the Austrian Empress, is not
hunting she practises in the gymnasium or goes to the
stables. She is always schooling her horses. When
she tires one she mounts another, feeling no fatigue and
taking very little refreshment. Every morning she
takes a cold seawater bath and practises for an hour
and a half on the trapeze and bar in a loose costume;
then she breakfasts.
Theodore —King of Dahomey: “I have noticed
that with these Englishmen their wives are as dear as
their hearts, and their children as the bead of their
eyes.” This beautiful sentiment was really expressed
by Dahomey’s blood-thirsty king a few months before
his capture. It is humiliating, however, to add that
the same afternoon ho presided at the execution of a
few hundred of his subjects, and expressed himself
highly pleased with the entertainment.
Aristsenetua, the compiler of the “ Ancient’s
Love Letters,” was evidently a fastidious old party m
the matter of beauty, as the following lines will show—
A man has an acre of ground near London. He
doesn’t let it to circuses, but rents it to the dead. It
fetches him in £lO,OOO.
“PHKTNE.”
“ Her height, her shape—’tis all complete.
And e’en remarkable her feet.
For taper size genteely slim ;
And little feet each lover knows
Impart a striking charm to those
Who boast no other graceful limb.’'
Pity Aristcenetus cannot step round Darling Point way.
He would find something there to make him rave and
rhyme his head off.
THE GIBLS OF YASS.
A FEW BYRONIC STANZAS.
“ Creation’s plan
. Is not complete if it lacks a man.”
Oh, never talk to me
About your blooming Sydney lasses.
Unless it’s been your lot to see
Exactly what the Girl of Yass is!
Although her chance be not as good
As theirs, to spoon, or practise flirting.
Although a small, conceited brood
Of men, she has for her diverting—
Though as along her 11 Block ” she strolls
In fashionable town-made dress.
With more congenial female souls.
Her muchness must her heart oppress, —
Yet, woman-like, she still can steal
From her small flock’s unhidden treasures
A glance or word to make her feel
There do exist “ more sweeter pleasures.”
Your Sydney girl has lots of men.
And need not guard her fine possessions—
She cares not how, and cares not when
They’ll come to her with sweet confessions;
But, bom beneath less favoured stars.
The charming, piquant girls of Yass are—
And “ ask Mammas ” or “ ask Papas ”
Quite curiosities, alas! are.
And yet she is no martyr meek.
But rails at living in “ this den here
And you will never hear her speak
But she will wish “ there were more men here.
Not that we care for them as men.
But, then, we are so short of dancers:
I’ve really known a party when
We couldn’t form a set of Lancers.”
The girl of Yass that’s asked to dance
Will never give a mock denial;
She knows the value of each chance.
And has to give the man a trial.
And when within the whirling waltz.
She finds her partner stiff and stupid.
She has to pardon all his faults.
And act as Psyche to his Cupid,
And when beneath the spreading sky
She goes to picnics or to races.
She surely sometimes wonders why
She always meets the same old faces;
Or, if she murmur songs of love.
Beneath Orion’s gleaming rays.
Or, wondering at the world’s above, _
Lifts her sweet voice in notes of praise—
In each, her state the pity’ll claim
Of all who chance to there behold her;
So let not girls, more lucky, blame
And at her frown, and scoff, and scold her,
In many a man-less place I’ve been.
Through many towns I’ve had to pass.
But never girls worse off, I’ve seen
Than those poor, darling Girls of Yass!
XXX.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mies Braddon, it is said, meditates play-writing.
The Baroness Bnrdett-Coutts has been very ill,
Sir William Gull was attending her. How interesting!
Sir George Grey is about to “ stump” N.Z. pre-
vious to the sitting of Parliament.
It was John Bright who described bookmakers
as persons who went about the country taking three to
two.
Mr. Chris. Bennett, of the Evening News, is
aboard the Potosi, with his wife —returning from their
honeymoon trip to Europe.
Archibald Forbes, who, as everyone knows, is
to be here shortly, has been lecturing in the States,
under D’Oyley Carte’s management.
Mr. J- D. Wickham, proprietor of the Auckland
/N.Z.) Free Lancs, has been committed for trial on
three charges of criminal libel. Other cases are pend-
ing.
A grandson of the Dean of Winchester was
recently before the Gonlburn Police Court as a claimant
for a small amount of wages. The decision was against
him
Lord and Lady Harris intend starting shortly on
a very lengthened tour in India, China, and the Eastern
Seas. They intend to reside for some considerable time
in Japan.
The Duke of Manchester had a good time of it
in New Zealand. The Duke and party had a narrow
escape from burning while travelling through the Forty-
mile Bush near Wellington.
We are glad to hear that Mr. Marcus Clarke, the
talented author of “ His Natural Life,” and Mr. Aaron
Waxman, the king of Victorian money-lenders, have
now amicably arranged their little differences.
Mr. Charles Isaac Watson, editor of the Shoal-
haven News (he calls himself the father of the Press),
was the other day fined at the local police court for
having used abusive language to a policeman.
O’Neal, of the Queanbetan Times, is going
for the Queanbetan Gale ; damages, something under
a million. The latter editor said that a lady cow-hided
the editor of the former: hence the row. People seem
libel-mad.
A Dunedin paper says that the celebrated
“ Bonanza King,” James Mackay, was a miner at the
Dunstan rush, and left New Zealand for San Francisco
in 1864. Now he lives in Paris, and rejoices in an in-
come of several thousands a week.
Bishop Staunton, of North Queensland, has
been very successful in England in his effort to raise a
sustentation fund for his diocese. His addresses have
greatly popularised emigration to the colonies, es-
pecially among the better class of women.
Mr. Osgood, the Boston publisher, was asked
at a dinner by Aldrich, the poet and novelist, how ten
per cent, came to be hit upon as the remuneration for
the poor author. Osgood replied, gravely, that it
represented n happy compromise between the broad-
minded liberality of publishers and the greed and
rapacity of authors.
Mrs. Crawley, to whom Mr. Richard Anthony
Proctor, the astronomical lecturer, has been married,
was, during her visit to Auckland, N.Z., the guest of
Mr. Joseph Newman, of Remuera. She had an ex-
cellent voice, and sang at a number of concerts at
Remuera, as well as at the house of the friends whom
she made during her visit.
From our American files we notice that James
Walsh, the murderer of Barbara Groentbal, in Brooklyn,
has been convicted, and the Rev. I. M. Kalloch, who
murdered Charles De Young, in San Francisco, has
been acquitted. This is the difference between stabbing
your sweetheart and shooting your enemy. The San
Francisco affair was a vendetta, of which the end is not
yet, as one of the remaining De Youngs threatens to
kill Kalloch.
Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald, solicitor, has initiated
proceedings for slander against Mr, John M'Elhone,
M.L.A., in connection with certain statements alleged
to have been made by the latter gentleman at a public
meeting in Sydney the other night. It is understood
further that an action, arising out of an altogether
different matter, is pending against Mr. M’Elhone at
the instance of another suitor.
Professors Whitney and Marsh, describing the
Calaveras skull and the granite mortars found at a
depth of 300 ft. in the auriferous gravels of the Sierra
Nevada, say they are the relics of a race of men who
bred in California prior to the uplift of Table Mountain
and prior to the basaltic overflow which now covers the
mountain. The skull is that of a man mentally superior
to the present Californian Indians. Thus man was fully
man at the beginning of the pliocene period—a very
-severe blow to the doctrine of evolution.
We clip the following par. from the Auckland
society journal:—“Mr. Lansell, of Melbourne, who,
next to the Hon. W. J. Clarke, is the richest man in
Victoria , has been paying a visit to Auckland, accom-
panied by his daughter and her companion. They are
at present stopping at the Star Hotel, but leave for
’Frisco by the outgoing mail steamer The magnificent
rosiere of diamonds worn by Miss Lansell at the opera
last week was the cynosure of all eyes, and for a time
attracted more attention than the business on the
stage.
Mr. J. Brown (“ Snyder,*') an old N.Z. jour-
nalist, and the editor of the Poverty Bay Herald, was
bumc? ii -ffifry recently, fpr libelling the local volun-
teers by saying they were while out at
Easter encampment. The effigy was' swung up at
the flag post with a copy of the Herald in one Sand
and a pannikin in the other. Three volleys were fired
into it, and it was then lowered and placed on a bier
and paraded round the camp, the band playing alter-
nately the “Rogue’s March” and the “ Dead March ”
Lively. We wonder what it would cost to do such a
thing in Sydney.
Aylward, the Irish military adviser of Joubert,
and by whose help Sir George Colley was defeated and
slain, was a particular friend of no less a person than
Sir Garnet Wolseley when the latter was in the Cape
Settlement, and repeatedly dined with Sir Garnet at the
latter’s invitation. The authority for this fact comes
from Sir Garnet himself, who, when it was first alleged
that the Transvaal rising was connected with Fenian-
ism, and that Aylward was the connecting link, took
upon him the defence of his friend and guest as one
who could not be suspected of harbouring designs
against the Queen’s Government.
Speaking at Adelaide, the other evening, the
Rev. J. Watsford related that the late Rev. Mr. Water-
house, who perished in the Tararua, had a warning of
his fate in a dream in which he saw himself and his son
going down in a sinking ship, and also mentioned that
just at the time of the wreck a young woman who was
dying in Melbourne suddenly exclaimed to her mother,
“ Mother, yonder is Mr. Waterhouse: he is standing
on the shore, beckoning to me.” The Rev. Mr. Morley
also intended to sail by the Tararua, but his wife had a
presentiment of evil, and prevailed on him not to go.
The Rev. Mr. Leonard had actually taken his passage in
the Tararua, but was sent as a delegate to San Francisco
instead. Other members declined to sail in the ill-fated
vessel.
Thady O’Kane has dropped into la bit of bad
hick, and his paper, the Northern Miner (Charters
Towers, Q ), is being sued for £2OOO damages, by Judge
Rely, In reference to the action, Thadeus remarks :
An apology approved by himself was published in
(nght newspapers in the North, named by Mr. Norris,
Judge Hely’s solicitor, and the apology when it ap-
peared was sent to Mr. Norris, with a letter expressing
the hope that the apology was satisfactory, and would
end the matter. To this letter no answer was given.
An expense of over £2 has been incurred in advertising
the apology, and the Supreme Court writ is the first
notice we get that Judge Hely is not satisfied.” It
certainly is harassing about that £2. Eighty drinks
gone at one fell crash. Heigho !
The Hon. William Campbell, the well-known
member of the Victorian Legislative Council, was the
nrat finder of a goldfield in the southern colony. He
cohered the much-coveted metal in March, 1850,
a t Clunes, and concealed the fact at the time, as he was
apprehensive that its announcement might bring injury
settler on whose run it was found. After the
gold discoveries in New South Wales, early in 1851, and
an extensive migration from Melbourne was im-
minent, unless some counter attraction turned up, Mr.
Campbell authorised the Hon. James Graham to com-
municate the circumstance to a gold discovery
committee then formed in Melbourne. Gold was
subsequently found at Anderson’s Creek, on the upper
Yarra, the Pyrenees, Buninyong, Ballarat, Mount
Alexander, and other places, and by the end of the year
the name and fame of Victoria as a gold-producing
country was thoroughly established.
Said the S. F. Newsletter, on the Rev. Kal-
loch, jun., being acquitted of the deliberate murder of
Charles De Young, editor of the Chronicle :—“ His
Reverence, the murderer, has returned to the scenes of
his innocence in Sonora, that Eden of bliss in which he
dispensed salvation before his fall. Alas! we fear much
that, like Adam, he will find a flaming sword between
him and his longed-for rest. * The way of the trans-
gressor is hard,’ and conscience will not be as easily
bribed as a convenient and complacent jury. Isaac,
Isaac, you will hear of ‘the worm that dieth not,’
depend upon it.” And, again“ The Kalloch farce is
over, and the murderer is turned loose to accept the
pastorate of some lavatory lot of sinners, who like their
religion spiced with assassination. It cost the old map
his house and lot to do it, however. Poor Wheeler had
no papa to back him, so he must swing. The T.C. begs
to offer his tribute of admiration to the intelligent jnry.
and would dearly love to know how much each man got
in coin.” We wonder—but no matter, we’re in N.S.W.
just now, not in California. Alas !
In person Gustave Dore is of medium size, in-
clined to corpulency. His features are large and regu-
lar, with the exception of the eyes, which are small,
bright, and piercing. A handsome moustache conceals
his mouth. His hair, now turning grey, is pushed back
from the forehead, after the manner of Balzac. He
possesses a wonderful amount of magnetism, and there-
fore impresses favourably all who approach him. He
seems to be devoted to art for art’s sake alone, and not,
as is too often the case with some who follow a high
vocation simply as a mercantile pursuit, for the money
there is in it. When conversing, he expresses himself
easily and clearly. His judgment is frank and sound,
and is expressed freely and without proviso, still with
a due regard to the weight his opinions carry. His
voice is full and soft, when not labouring under ex-
citement; yet if anything happens which interests
him, he elevates his voice to such a pitch that it rever-
berates through the studio like the warning of an
angry parson in a large church. He possesses an
imagination remarkable for its power and fertility;
also, a natural aptitude for drawing. To these natural
gifts he has added a vast amount of learning.
The London literati are evidently waking up.
From the prospectus of Edmund Yates's new evening
paper, the Cuckoo, we extract—for the edification of
contemporaries—the following passages:—“Our news-
papers have got their wheels into ruts; they ramble
along ponderously, one after the other, like a procession
of omnibusses, from a given point to a given point, tak-
ing always the same route, and moving always at the
same pace. This single-line-of-rail journalism seems to
ns to have grown out of date. For instance, the age of
the leading article is past, and the age of the paragraph
has commenced The news of the day will
be given in its essence, divested of those literary tropes
and metaphors which have hitherto constituted the
stock-in-trade of the cheap journalist, but which are
limited to his vocabulary. The latest telegrams will be
translated from the barbarous jargon in which they
cross the wires, and will be rendered intelligible; and
that unprinted but everywhere spoken gossip, which is
the actual salt of the social salmi, will find its daily
record.” This is the first shriek of the death-knell of
the Sydney daily jumbles. However, it’s hard to resist
the thought that Mr. Yates has made a sad mistake in
giving such a name to his new venture, which we find
is not half so smart and lively as it might be.
A Corner Shop.
Ojp last Good Friday I was leaning over the rail at the
S. SE. Herald counter, attentively listening to the
clerk's graphic felatifffV °f the celebrated case of
Potiphar v. Joseph, when a' dirty little shoeless, shirt-
less, soapless, hoodlum chussed up Jo the counter —threw
down a greasy towel first, and a glrfiasy shilling after,
and then coolly observed: “ Giv us tOh r duz’n buns,
an’ mother says ef you poke eny ov y’r stale ’uns in
she’ll 'awk thim back herself an’ sling 'etn at yer.”
“My boy,” said the clerk, with Christian forbearance,
" whatever possessed you to imagine that buns 17 er0
sold at the office of the leading journal of Australia
“ Why,” replied the young rag-stack, “ I thort no
place would be mean enuff to opin to-day esept a bun
shop.”
* * •
I had only just succeeded in bringing the unfor-
tunate clerk to his senses by opening a bottle up
against his ear, when a pair of trousers about the
length of a brick, and part of a shirt to match came in,
and pushing a jug and a medicine phial on the counter,
lisped out: “ I want two glathes of ’arf-an’-’arf in this,
an’ a gill of rum in thir; an’ pleath thir, father sayth
th’ lath he had wath d rubbidge.” The poor
counter man turned his face to the wall, and endea-
voured to remember a few Sunday-school hymns he had
learnt in happier days, and I had just managed to brain
the boy with the jug when another fiend staggered up,
and after a little careful navigation succeeded in
anchoring himself to the rail, and then looked round
as if he expected a little applause. His face bore a
clore resemblance to a bill-sticker’s wall after a
thunderstorm ; his coat was ripped up the back from
Dan to Beersheba, and, as he poetically put it, his hat
had “ gon'sh th’ devil’er git a tep on’t.” I was about to
inform him his head gear was lost for ever, as no such
party or firm existed, when he pushed himself farther
along, and leaning over the counter observed to the
clerk with a knowing wink and sort of confidential
smile: “All ri ole fell’r—little bit mesh las’ night—
only fine five bob though—now you giv’sh up that pipe
'n t’baccker.” “ What pipe and tobacco ? no one ever
dares to smoke here, yon know,” replied the insulted
clerk. “Oh, I shee;” continued the visitor; “you
washn’t th’ consht’ble wot search me las night, put
’pon shole he shed gimme sthuff back 'sh mornin’.’’
It then flashed on all that the saintly Herald’s front
apartments had been mistaken for the receiving room
of the Central Watchhouse ; so grasping him round the
waist, I held him firmly until the clerk read him four
of the last leaders and a musical critique. He died in
the greatest agony.
V.
A statne of John Brown is to be erected in
Kansas. His sonl will march on as usual.
Some of the Maryborough “ upper ten.” when
they leave cards, spell “ Miss ” with but one “ s.'*
CURIOUS CRITICISM.
The majority of onr art critics may be divided
into two distinct classes —viz., the bad and the well,
very bad; and in order to enlist the thorough earnestness
and support of the general public in scouring along
with the usual testimonials, we will briefly describe the
modus operandi employed by a few of our Apollonian
writers.
• * *
Sydney is undoubtedly a musical city, and the
fact of our publicly expressing this opinion on every
possible occasion clearly proves it requires no ghost to
leave his suburban retreat to tell us of our great im-
portance. Many causes have at times been suggested
respecting our superiority in the divine art over all
other nations in the known world—the Chinese perhaps
excepted. According to some, our harmonious pro-
ficiency is simply the result of our irrepressible sewer-
age ; others again attribute it to our harbour, the
weather, onr Corporation, coffee palaces, and tin-tag
tobacco manufactories; but, whilst admitting the
plausibility of the reasoning put forward in support of
each of the above views, we now boldly assert that,
having previously sat down in a cool place, and given
this much vexed question a thorough investigation, we
have discovered that the true cause of all our tuneful
greatness lies in the wonderful, almost incomprehensible,
astuteness and technical skill displayed by some of our
musical critics. These are the beacon lights of all our
St. Cecilian glory, and the sooner we bring out the
usual pewter tea service and address, the sooner will we
repay the gratititude due to these gifted gentlemen—
and one small lady.
« • •
A monster concert is to be held; hundreds of
pounds have been spent in endeavouring to make the
affair a success; the most talented performers are
selected, and hours of weary drill have been toiled
through in order to place the evening’s amusement be-
fore the public without the slightest hitch. A special
reporter is told off from a leading journal in order that
encouragement may be given to the deserving, and a
good healthy “doing” to all failures. The leading
journal looks about for a man who can be safely trusted
with a free ticket, and perhaps ninepence to spend in
pepermental luxuries, and just as likely as not the
“ commercial ” man is drafted off to report on matters
of which he has about as nfach knowledge as an oyster
has of the Ten Commandments. Next morning the
leading journal astonishes the whole civilized world,
and rivets universal attention alter the following
fashion :
♦ » *
“ A very large attendance mustered last night
at the usual weekly (sales is here unguardedly written
from force of habit but at once erased, and then we
read) concerts, the prices of admission ranging from
Is to ss, and meeting with a brisk demand. The music
was somewhat inferior to the general run, although oc-
casional samples commanded much attention. Lot 1
contained 12 solos, all of which were given by various
singers, and lot 2 contained a similar class of articles.
Books of the music were sold either in one line, or to
suit purchasers, but in all cases the terms were cash.
There was a considerable falling off in the attendance
towards the close, and the whole transaction lacked
general interest.” That’s the commercial man’s ac-
count of the terrible struggle, and though the different
performers rush down stairs next morning in their
“ dishabille ” to devour, their, perhpas well-earned praise,
they subsequently sit down and curse the commercial’s
family back to the 31st generation.
* * *
On another occasion, the sporting scribe is
drafted off, and his airy off-hand style next day slips
along as follows:—“The usual flutter of the Sons of
Harmony took place last night, and was visited by a
large concourse of visitors. Punctually at 8 o’clock the
bell sounded for the first event, and 13 Sons toed the
scratch to worry up the opening chorus. The basses
got the best of a very bad start, but at the first turn the
second tenors closed in and lessened the gap, whilst the
baritones spurted along in the rear, and the rest of the
ruck followed up, and straggled along like so many
“ soj or ants ” chasing a gang of grasshoppers. Coming
down the straight, however, the lot were well together,
and “gruelling” became the order of the day. When
the field passed the judge’s post there was a hazy
opinion amongst a few of the talent that the little bald-
head old moke with the paper collar and broken hoofs
had a lead of half a nose; but this was eventually over-
ruled, and the stakes divided. The next event was a
match between a long-legged colt, whose stride and
sLape reminded one of the Flying Pieman strain, and
whose? voice was chiefly noticeable for its close resem-
blance t* o a big mosquito's buzz down a bullock’s horn,
and a litc' e three-year-old filly, who showed immense
“ foot,” a-nd not a little staying power either. When
the fla’g propped the Ally rushed to the front, and won
hands do ,wn - The other events were all rattled off in
good style. an d a sort of hurry scurry or go-as-you-
please flutter closed a most successful meeting.” That’s
the way’ things are talked about by the sporting scribe,
and we now turn to a far more industrious reporter than
either <l>f the above just mentioned.
• * *
Thi s gentleman is the buccaneer who gets up
reports about prize pumpkins, testimonial-grabbing
pars- Jns, half-inch hailstones, four-legged chickens,
two -beaded calves, and other monstrosities, and he may
be appropriately described as the “ general utility” man
of uis company. Reporting high-class concerts is always
a (difficult matter to him, because he can never see the
points, but he nevertheless attacks his subject with all
tfc.e energy of a free luncher “ wolfing ” the bread and
“ jumpers ”at a suburban land sale. This is the utility
.nan’s performance : —“ We had the pleasure of inspect-
ing an enormous display of music given by whatis known
' as the Metronolitan Leatherhead Society, and we must
say we were quite astonished, as were also many other
ladies and gentlemen present. The programme measured
nearly two yards, and was perfectly formed in all respects.
At the close of the performance a number of gentlemen
assembled in front of the bar of the hotel next door, and
expressed themselves thoroughly satisfied with the
whole affair. The health of the Press was tben proposed,
some more ‘ crackers ’ and cheese brought in, and all
I present spent a most enjoyable evening.” Mr. Utility
‘l man then waltzes up to the editor’s room, and hands in
1 his copy with all the pardonable self-satisfied pride of
1 Archie Forbes handing in his account of a general Zulu
slaughter.
• * *
'i But now we come to the real Stingo, and with
Respectful pleasure we turn to a genuine critic par ex-
c faience—the Julius Caesar, so to speak, of the tribe, and
tijae great Ego of all things musical. This is the Sir
oiracle, and the dog who barks when this worthy is
abound gets his tail jammed, even before he is fully
aware he has one. Ego tunes up in th ; s style : Mozart’s
“ H Trovatore” was the opera selected for performance
at the fifth concert of the “ Musical Messers,” which
was given in the Town Hall on Friday last. We have
repeatedly expressed our regret, even displeasure, that
a work of this magnitude should be attempted by our
too-aspiring amateurs. Mozart was born of poor, but
respectable parents, in Strasburg, in 1710, and was at
first intended by his parents to be brought up to the
plebeian trade of poundkeeper. His genius, however,
asserted itself, and he was taken in hands by the veteran
Albrechter, who, on hearing the youthful prodigy per-
form for the first time, exclaimed aloud in his native
French, " Mein Gott, zat young un, he hev got ze vim,
you bets mine boots aboud id.” His first work of im-
portance was a lovely nocturne called the “ Maiden’s
Prayer,” which is still occasionally heard of, and then
followed “ Nancy Lee,” •* Hold the Fort,” and finally
his greatest work, “II Trovatore.” We need scarcely
say Mozart’s chef d’ceuvre was simply murdered on
Friday last. The soprano took her own temps, the
tenor screamed painfully out of tune, and the contralto
was so dreadfully flat that we wonder the young ladies’
friends ever allowed her to appear in public. The basso,
however, looked the character of Maritana to the life,
and sang divinely. We are ever delighted by this
gentleman’s beautiful voice, and handsome presence.
The chorus was execrable. All the tempi was taken
poco poco rna crescendo, and all throughout there was a
total absence of what is known in the aesthetic German
school as Dutschenweiberschonderfreisbung. The
dress of the ladies was out of all keeping, and there was
at times an almost revolting effluvia observable in the
timbre of the French horns and kettle-drums. This
concert was simply a disgrace to the society, and a
positive source of pain to ourselves and ail other
educated musicians present.”
* * *
These are a few hasty samples of Sydney
criticism, and when musical opinions are so publicly
expressed, and the performances of even the first
European artistes brought into contempt by persons
who can neither sing two bars in tune nor correctly
finger a single scale themselves, it’s about time we
either gave music best, or got up and ordered a few
Solomon Island brain-improvers.
THE FASHIONS.
[BY THE “MAN-MILLINER.”]
Miracourt lace is new, and washes well.
Lizard brooches are new and much admired.
Short round waists and waist-bands are again in
favour.
“ Mountain bunting ” is the new material for
dresses.
Gatherings or guagings are everywhere, both on
skirts and bodices.
Steel is much seen in laces—passementeries,
gauzes, and fringes.
Vandyke red is a new colour ; it is darker and
softer than cardinal.
Silver has taken the place of gold for embroi-
deries, ornaments, &c.
Spanish lace is still the rage, both for street and
evening toilettes and millinery.
“ Grannie” bonnets composed of plush are fast
gaining favour for young ladies.
Evening gloves are fastened at the outside of
the arm with round pearl buttons.
Gold brocade, with a design in white velvet, is
the last trimming for evening dresses.
Medici collars worked with pearls and necklets
of roses are much in vogue with bridesmaids.
White silver damask and white satin de Chine
are new for evening, and combine most beautifully.
For dressy occasions, black Spanish lace
mantles are lined with light flesh-coloured and ruby
satin.
There is a new make of Valenciennes lace. It
has a heavy edge. It is to be had in cream, tuscan, and
white.
Gold and silver zones are much in vogue for
evening at home. Some are seen studded with precious
stones.
Floral bonnets and floral muffs, made of shaded
violets, are much worn in Paris by the leaders of
fashion.
Mignonette is revived; so is terra-cotta, and
there is a new yellow, almost as bright as a Marech i
Niel rose.
Flesh-coloured surah, trimmed with red velvet
and silver-embroidered tulle, makes an elegant costume
for evening.
Shaded effects are still in vogue—shaded fea-
thers, shaded flowers, and shaded ribbons are seen on
almost all Parisian millinery.
Poke bonnets continue in favour. Those by last
mail have their fronts Ailed in with bouquets of flowers,
and bows of ribbon are seen inside the brim of some.
Worth is using flowers in abundance on evening
dresses. Some are of gigantic size, the favourites being
pond-lilies, sun-flowers, tiger-lilies, azaleas, and pas-
sion-flowers.
The last novelty in bonnet ornaments is a long
slender bug (!) made of bronze-coloured metal, which is
most natural looking. Some new bonnets are studded
all over with them.
The new lace, point d’Aurillac, is silk with a
ground of very fine meshes, heavy leaf-designs thickly
wrought, forming scalloped edges. It is very effective
and looks well for millinery.
There is nothing more lovely than plush for
dress and millinery trimming; it is fast gaining favour
with Sydney ladies, and it is feared it will be very
scarce as the season advances, judging from the great
demand there is for it at present.
Heliotrope has passed away, and the new shades
of brown and terra-cotta have taken its place. Capper-
brown, golden-brown, the brown of the Roman Cam-
pagna, and a brown called feuille de couleau d’automne
are all prominent shades, the last notably so.
A turban-like adjustment of folds, either of
lace or satin above the forehead, is said by one of the
most fashionable Parisian milliners to owe its coming
into favor to the fact that it “ dresses ” the face and
helps the plainness of a close narrow-shaped hat or
bonnet.
Few evening or street toilettes are seen without
rich beaded embroideries. French jet beads of all
colours sure much in vogue with fashionable costumes ;
old gold, silver, steel, prune “ rayon de luue,” red, blue,
and white are the favourites; and are oftenest seen on
colours to correspond.
The London Press for the most part writes
cynically regarding the Coutts-Burdett marriage. It is
generally allowed that the proposal emanated from the
lady—which, by the way, we think highly probable.
Ashmead-Bartlett’s brother, on being interviewed, said:
—“ The proposition must have come from the Baroness.
He would not dare to do it. There was not only the
disparity in their ages—he is only thirty-one—but the
difference in their fortunes. He has an independence,
and had never received any pecuniary favours from hen;
but, at the same time, he knew that she had received
many eligible offers from noblemen and others in high
stations. It was a case of love on her part, and sincere
regard (sic) on his.” It would seem that Ashmead first
met the Baroness at the residence of the ex-Empress
Eugenie, at Chislehnrst, where the Bartletts (being
neighbours) were frequent visitors. She then, appa-
rently, spotted him with the result that is now a
matter of history. “ Dagonet,” in the London Referee,
is very fierce. He says:—“lf I say nothing compli-
mentary of a lady who bears an honoured name, it is
because nothing can make the affair wear a pretty
aspect. I am sorry for the lady, and I will not say what
I think of a male individual who gives his fresh youth
manhood to a woman old enough to be his grandmother
There can be but one opinion concerning the matter. It
is a blunder on one side, and that which is proverbially
quoted as not quite so bad as a blunder on the other.”
We see by the American papers that the “ happy pair,”
(we wonder if they arc happy) intend, after the honey-
moon, paying a visit to the United States. The
Baroness is 63.
“HANDSOME IS AS HANDSOME DOES.”


SINGER'S SEWING 1
THE
s
INGER
MANUFACTURE
Have opened a Depo
8
TDNEY, AT No. 1
HAEBOUE
DAE
STEE
S
INGEE’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sent
s
INGER’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLES
s
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of neaj
s
INGER’S, THE BEST F(
Have received 160 First Pr
s
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for <a
s
INGER’S, BEST FOR E
‘ SINGEE’S MEDIUM MACH;
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. w<
s
INGEE’S THE BEST F
See the New No. 4 Ma
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition t
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOE
See the New No. 4 Yibrating-1
8
8
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OE TEEAD:
INGER’S. The BEST. The
MACHINE—Light to Work, 1
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d
8
INGER’S, THE BEST;
LEAEN. New Improvements
8
INGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all I
8
INGER’S, THE BEST Ah
Sew finest muslins and hea
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for Hlustrated Price 1
8
INGER’S THE BEST andM'
Will last a lifetime in con
8
INGER’S SEWING
ADDEESS: TH
SINGER MANUFACTURE
No. IDAELING STOEES, Hart
8
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymark
have been appointed agents for
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth’s
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—i
10 per cent discount for casl
SINGEE'S SEWING MA
JNGER’S SEWING MAC HI
grid CO. only recommend t
8
Remember, there is e
GEE MACHINE. See the
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S
applies to the Genuine Mach
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
INGER’S MACHINES—B.
Cast iron imitations. Only
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
JNGER’S SEWING MAC HI
ments with the Singer C
8
8
INGER’S SEWING MAC
cent, discount for cash, or on 1
SIDNEY. —From TURNER
GEOEGE STEBET. opposite
INGER’S SEWING MACHI
but 160 FIEST PEE
JOHNSTON
SEWING MACHIN
HAYMARKEI
jgINGER’S SEWING
JOHNSTON’S [
...S HAYMARKI
SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2a
JOHNSTO
T
HE LIGHT RUNNING
2s 6d per week, a
JOHNSTON’S. HA7KL
s
INGER’S SEWING
2s 6d per week, a
JOHNSTON’S 0
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. —Any.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
tmcoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Theodore Staioee, analytical
chemist." — Advt.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
There are fears of a revival of bushranging in
the Western districts of Queensland.
The population of Adelaide and its suburbs is
87,000; the city proper numbers 37,000.
Population of Dunedin city, N.Z., 12,812 males,
12,067 females, as against 11,599 males and 10,926 females
in 1878.
The case against “ Captain” Dan O’Connor, re
the steamer Fawn and the Eight-oar race, fell to the
ground.
XThe Melbourne Age, the protectionist organ,
was about 150,000 out in its estimate of the population
of Victoria.
Coreena station, Mitchell District (Q.), with
42,000 sheep and 2000 cattle, has been purchased by Mr.
C. W. Little, for £70,000.
A tramway accident recently occurred at Dune-
din, N.Z., which resulted in the injury of 12 persons,
one of whom is expected to die.
Moritzon, the Dunedin dandy, has got 3 years’
imprisonment. There were three charges—two against
the prisoner, and one by his Honor to the jury.
On the voyage out, the Potosi was signalled by
a French transport and informed that the Serapis had
been totally lost. A vessel of that name was at
Adelaide some months ago.
The striking fact has come out in the Victorian
census returns that the increase in the whole popula-
tion of the sister colony is not equal to the natural in-
crease by births. The difference is about 25,000.
Four gentlemen have subscribed .£22,000 to-
wards the shipment of frozen meat from Sydney to
England. Large freezing rooms will be erected in
London, so that the meat will not be rushed on to the
market.
J. J. Roche and Co., who are now running the
Adelaide Bulletin, are at war legally with Mr. Frank
Skefißngton Carroll, the late proprietor of the Lantern
and also a late half-proprietor of the Bulletin and
Lantern.
Since last January, one firm of Sydney station
agents has invested £270,000 in pastoral properties in
this colony, on behalf of English capitalists, and
£140,000 for Victorian capitalists. The English capital
continues to flow.
A verdict of manslaughter has been returned by
the Coroner’s jury against the master and fireman of
the harbour steamer Warremberen for alleged neglect,
whereby a boat was cut down in the Parramatta River
and a lad named Horace Robertson drowned.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Some of the publicans along the Maryborough
and Gympie line have made small fortunes The Sec-
retary of a Christchurch building society has levanted.
Defalcations to the amount of £2OOO have been dis-
covered in his accounts A man named John Bourke
recently shot himself through the head with a bullet at
Coromandel, near Auckland, N.Z. Deceased was a
native of Victoria, where his parents reside Foxes
are becoming a nuisance in Victoria The new Mac-
quarie lighthouse at Sydney Heads awaits only the
electric lantern expected now every day from England.
The Mount Bischoff Tin Mines. Tasmania, has paid
£186,000 in dividends,about £l5 10s per £1 share The
Chinese are said to be getting an ounce a day per man
at the new diggings, Mary River, Northern Territory.
Four lighthouses are being built on the New South
Wales coast Callan Park lunatic asylum will cost
£229,000 There were 3176 convictions in Victoria out
of 5851 cases in which parents were summoned on ac-
count of the non-attendance of their children at
school Alfred Newnham, butcher, committed on a
charge of having set fire to the Herald Office, Temora.
The Standish police testimonial contains 165 oz.
silver The Victorian Railway revenue for ten months
is £138,000 in excess of the returns for the correspond-
ing ten months of the previous year Mr. Alfred
Scarfe, a well-known Adelaide merchant, was found
dead in his bed on the 4th The Victorian railway
department is to adopt the American system of gate-
opening ; an approaching tram touches a spring and the
gates fly open An English company with a capital of
a quarter of a million has been formed to work the
South Australian copper mines Four and a half
million passengers travelled on our railways last year.
Mr. Roxburgh, of Orange, is about shipping some
frozen meat direct to Manchester Over 300 candi-
dates for matriculation at Melbourne University
The fortifications at Botany cost £25,000. The pro-
jected fortifications on Flagstaff Hill, Newcastle, must
be discontinued, as the hill is found to have been bored
for coal The month’s crushing of 766 tons from No.
2 North Glanmire yielded 3230 oz. assayed gold. Total
dividend, 7s. on 28,000 shares The mining mania at
Gympie is dying out, as not so much gold is being
raised just now. The Golden Crown Co. are sinking to
cut the reef from which the N. Phmnix got such
splendid returns Mrs. P. Walsh, of Kikiama station,
near Grenfell, was killed by the capsizing of a buggy
In a forty-eight-hour tournament at Grenfell recently,
Brennan was first with 152 miles, and Fitch second with
147 miles Henry Went committed for trial for
attempted murder and attempted suicide at
Newcastle. Jealousy was the occasion of the crime
John Nuckie, a miner, was choked at Carcoar with a
piece of meat weighing an ounce Libel action
brought against the Quean bet an Age and the
Cooma Express by the Queaneetan Times
Tenders called by the Commissioner for Railways for
4000 iron rails and 8000 fish plates The Brisbane
Evening News is defunct Mary Ann Hogg, a girl of
ten, drowned at Brisbane in an attempt to save her
sister Proceedings in the matter of the Ferret, the
stolen steamer, delayed, pending instructions from
England 1070 tons of stone from Reedy Creek (Vic.)
gave 38640 z. of gold Mrs. Newton, a passenger on
the Potosi for Sydney, was killed on the vessel at
Adelaide, by the fall of a derrick. Mrs. Newton, who
had two young children with her, was coming out to
join her husband, who is an architect in New Zealand.
An industry for the manufacture of unfermented
wine has been established near Geelong A 15oz.
nugget found at Mount Poole. General mining very
dull Heavy rains at Temora. Operations renewed,
with good returns Experiment, coasting scoooner,
capsized near Kangaroo Island, S.A., and the crew, with
the exception of two, drowned The great trial,
Campbell v. the Commercial Bank, a suit for £lO,OOO,
terminated in a verdict for defendants.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton.
Mr. J. Henniker Heaton, who for the past 13 years
has been connected with the Australian press, and who
was for some time a member of The Bulletin proprie-
tary, trees to Europe next Wednesday, per P. and 0. Co.'s
s.s. Khedive. Mr. Heaton leaves behind him many
friends and many enemies, as successful men generally
do. We, who have had special experience of his ability
to make lively matters journalistic, and who know as
well as most people that advertising a newspaper is one
of the fine arts, cordially wish him hon voyage. We
believe that he “ leaves his country for his country’s
good," in that he will be able to do more in the way of
bringing colonial matters prominently before the home
public than all the Agents-General and emigration
lecturers who ever lived. In fact, J. H. H. is the man,
above all others, who can “ stir things up ” generally.
LATE THEATRICAL
The Hewetts (Musettes) and Ogdens are at
Mackay (Q.) The Standard treats them to two-thirds
of a column, and exhausts its vocabulary in compli-
ments. It says that as a pianiste Mrs. Hewett is a
“firm performer.” Good!
# * *
Ketten sailed last week in the Merkara, from
Brisbane for Java. When he arrives he will find await-
ing him the following cable:—“Java good passage,
Henri. And ’ow ees Eockey ? ”
* # •
The Theatre Royal Company presented Mr.
G. Xi. Goodman, on Tuesday, with (is it endemic ?) an
emu-egg inkstand. Mr. Williamson, in making ths
presentation, said that he had always been brought up
to believe that if there was anything humanity cared
for it was. the egg of the emu, and therefore he had
voted for presenting their acting-manager with the
accompanying gift, in lieu of the six electro-plated
spoons and pair of pickle forks, of which presentations
so often consist. In reply, Mr. Goodman said he con-
sidered Mr. J. C.’s eggsplanation very emusing, and
suggested that the shandygaff be immediately sent for.
On this being done, Mr. G. was shown a draft of
the address, which was to be illuminated. It was as
follows: —
Mr. J. C. Williamson has sold to Mr. Liddy
manager of the Kelly Opera Company, now in Queens-
land the right of producing “ The Pirates of Pe nzance ’
in that colony for the term of three months. The
opera will shortly be put on the boards at Brisbane.
-• * * * \vn
The South “ Pinafore ” company have been per-
forming at Mudgee, The Giraffe's notice is flattering
so, of course, the happiness of the company is
complete.
* * *
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Williamson will play in
“ Struck Oil,” at the Sydney Eoyal, from Saturday up
to Thursday next, when they leave for Melbourne Opera
House with the “ Pirates,” who will make their first
bow to an audience in the Southern metropolis on
Monday night week. The company start for the South
on Friday morning, and rehearse on Saturday night;
and, as has been previously stated, they commence
actual work on Monday, little time will be lost by the
change of scene. And, by the way, the opera will be
produced in Melbourne under, all things considered,
most favourable auspices. Apart altogether from the
cost of the piece itself, the production cost J. C. W.
quite £lOOO before the curtain went up for the first
time. With well - known principals, an excellent
orchestra (the largest theatrical band, in fact, which
has ever been regularly engaged here), splendid dresses,
a first-class male chorus, and all the prestige which
attaches to a seven weeks’ run in Sydney, to packed
houses from start to finish, J. C. W. and his vivacious
consort will no doubt succeed in maintaining their
long-tenanted places in the hearts of the Melbournites.
«. * «
“ Maritana ” has been drawing great crowds at
the Gaiety all the week, and the success of Mr. and
Mrs. Turner is now assured. We have nothing to add
to our last week’s criticism upon the Opera, except,
perhaps, that Mr. Gordon’s acting has slightly im-
proved, and that Miss Montague’s voice is now entirely
free from even a soujxjon of rheum. There will be, we
understand, a change of programme on Saturday,
“ Mignon,” we believe, is to be produced.
♦ * *
George Atkins has made a hit at the Melbourne
Princess in Camilla’s husband. This is a better time,
George, than 11 those blooming British Blondes.”
* * *
At Rockhampton (Q ), Harry Emmett and
Marian Melrose appear to be prime favourites. They
have been playing in “Caste.” George D’Alroy, the
hubby; and Esther Ecoles, the wifey. Miss Maggie
Oliver and W. H. Seagrave are the lessees.
• * *
Somebody has kindly forwarded us a marked
Auckland Stab, which states that “ Miss Carrie God-
frey made a decided hit in ’ Alas those Chimes I ’ in the
prison scene. She was greeted with a perfect storm of
applause, and was compelled to repeat the latter por-
tion.” On the other hand, a local critic signing Eed
Cap speaks of this promising young lady very unkindly;
but possibly Miss Godfrey has overlooked this latter
fact.
* ♦ ♦
“ Antony and Cleopatra ” is to be produced by
the management of the Melbourne Eoyal, at a cost of
£l2OO.
* # *
Miss Frederica Mitchell, a Victorian singer of
repute, goes to Dunedin this month.
* * *
Macdonald is Williamson’s agent for Melbourne,
vie* the “ much-travelled,” resigned.
« . * « V
Verdi leaves for Melbourne on Saturday ;"also,
Mrs.—we mean. Signora V.—and the de-ah baby. y
CRICKET.
The Gramanda C.C. beat the Richmond C.C.
Saturday by 38 rnns..,...Mr. S. Stewart takes thr^ e
trophies in the Thornton C.C. this season—viz., bath ng
and bowling averages and highest individual score. _ lr{ r-
T. Duigle secures second batting average Nation.^
C.C. v. Clio C.C., on Saturday last, at the
ground. The Nationals again defeated their
scoring 60 as against 2i. For the winners Watkins
made 15. and Carroll and Vial 13 each. For the Clios,
King scored 5. The bowling of Duncan (53 balls, 2 runs,
4 wickets) and Perry (24 balls, 7 runs, 5 wickets) for the
Nationals and of Smith for the Clios was good Hero
of Waterloo C.C. v. Eedfem United, at Eveleigh, on
Saturday last. Result was a win for the former by 17
runs Scores: 40 and 23 respectively. Dibley and
Howe bowled well for the victors, as also did Davies
and Garlands for the Eedferns. The only double figures
made in the match were A. Pople’s (Eedfem United
C.C.) 11 not out, gained by good cricket......
The match between the Orleans C.C. and Balmain
Collingwood C.C., at North Shore, on Saturday, re-
sulted in an easy victory for the former. This
was the fourth match of the season between the
two clubs, the former having been victorious three
times A match was played on Saturday
the 2nd Warwick and the Eastern C.C., result-
| ing in a draw very much in favour of the Warwick C.C.
Noble distinguished himself by his splendid hitting
The match between the Stanmore and Carlton Clubs
on the Association Ground last Saturday was the last
of the season, and proved exciting, not as regards the
result of the match, for the Carltons won easily, but
in the closeness of the running for the trophies.
Stewart Weame was very close to Geary for bowling
average, but a few bad overs in this match put him
behind. The trophy for highest individual score goes
to Davis for 78, made against the University Club.
lOn Saturday, Weame got as near to it as
I 74, but his luck was out, and he was caught
I just as the prize was within his grasp Per-
severance C.C. v. Merkworth C.C. (return match)
at Moore- Park on Saturday. The result was another
victory for the P. C.C , who scored 85 as against their
opponents’ 43. The batting of E. Melville (26) and
Hawksford (10) for the P.C.C., and Carlos (16) for
the M.C.C., was excellent. The bowling of Chip-
pindale and Hinohy for the P.C.C., and that of
Carloss for the M.C.C. was effective Shamrock
C.C. (13) v. Belmore C.C. (11) at St. Leonards. After a
very exciting contest, it resulted in a win for former by
7 runs. Bowling very good on both sides, but batting
weak—that of De Lauret’s, for the Shamrocks, how-
ever, being a brilliant exception. He played a fine
innings for 27 without giving a chance. This score
included a splendid drive for 6. Scores : Shamrocks,
45 ; Belmores, 38 Clifton v. Woodstock, at Burwood,
on May 7th. Scores: Clifton, 39; Woodstock, 36.
Tipper played well for Clifton, and Kaliler and Hart-
strom tor Woodstock On April 23 the Croydon C.C.
played a match with the Albion C.C. Scores: Croy-
dons, 98; Albions, 4 wickets for 18 runs. On April 30
they met the Burwood Arlington C.C. Scores: Croy-
don s, 54; Arlingtons, 9 wickets for 46. On May 7th
they defeated the Strathearn C.C. by 20 runs. Scores :
Groydons, 42; Strathearns, 22 Another club, “ The
North Sydney,” has been formed by several promising
cricketers.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Buckeye” (Darlington): We hardly understand
your communication It’s really too bad
to notice “ G.W.T.” ; The statements made in your
note and in your verses are too widely general. Send
something more definite “F. J.S.” : Verse not up to
the mark. “ Woollahra You ask us to insert your
verse; kindly say why we should do so “ Netroque ”
(Eockhampton) : Matter of the kind is hardly suitable
to The Bulletin. It is not sufficiently pointed and
occupies too much space “X.Y.Z.” (Narrabrij:
There is now more reading matter in The Bulletin
than ever there was. Formerly the paper only had
eight pages; now it has sixteen. The average size of
the type has been greatly reduced, and the matter is
now printed more closely to save space. There is more
matter in this journal than in any other threepenny
weekly ever printed in Australia “ W.L.” (Adelaide) :
We have received your communication, but you may
wait until the millennium for its appearance in these
columns. We are not under U.S. libel law in this colony ;
we only wish we were, for then ■■ but we stop here.
•> J.T.S.”: We’d gladly have inserted your items, but
for the fact that we didn’t quite understand them. In
such cases you should always explain “Titania”:
Thanks; but you tell a little too much; all the same
“ H.W.” : Thanks “ H.T.” : Kindly send ns word
when the event actually occurs “Enoch Arden”:
Always glad to hear from you. Your communications,
however, should be more pointed, and hardly so long.
The subject on which you have written is one which
has already been “done to death.” “T.H.” (Mait-
land): When you make a joke, you should always let us
into the secret. We don’t know in what light to regard
your present communication “A.J.M.”: We are
much obliged for your note, and shall be glad to hear
from you again. However, before your communication
arrived, another account was in type “ L.N.”:
Before receiving your note we had already a paragraph
in type. However, please write again “ G.”: Will
read and consider “ E.L.R.” (you who sent to
us as original, and apropos to the loss of the
Tararua, Byron’s beautiful stanzas on the ship-wreck,
with a few mean additions of your own); What
do you take us for ? If you read on, or write on, a little
further, you’ll find that one of the fellows who was
saved from the shipwreck (we mean the old original
Byronic shipwreck) had to eat his dog, or was eating
himself, or something of the kind —we don’t just now
exactly remember the circumstances, and our gilt-
edged “Don Juan ’’has been hypothecated to carry on a
libel action. Well, we hope that you’ll have to eat
your dog, and that’s all the harm we wish you “J.
Simpson”: No, you don’t “Subscriber” (Nowra):
In view of the present condition of the libel law we
couldn’t for a moment dream of such a thing
“J.M.W." (Redfern): Thanks. However, you are late
for the pages in which we insert sporting gossip.
“ Memo ”: We don’t know anything whatever against
the character of the public man to whom you refer
“ J.P.”: Rather late. Perhaps next week “E.J.W.”:
Much obliged. Your letter came to hand late, but we
hope to hear from you again ....." Pelican ”: We are
greatly indebted for your capitally-written report,
which, however, reached us too late to be of service
“ T.G." (Mungarr): We cannot at the present moment
say for certain, but will enquire in what year the family
in question were murdered. We are, however, certain
that the survivor did not receive permission to kill all
the blacks he came across for twelve months. We have
over and over heard the statement referred to made in
Par Northern Queensland, where a good many people
shoot blackfellows merely because they are black
"G. H. Shaw” (" Drifting"): Next week.
Hop Bitters at last! Messrs. Montefiore, Stuart,
and Co., of 65 Pitt-street, have arranged to bring the
celebrated Hop Bitters before the Australian market.
A shipment is to arrive shortly. The firm mentioned
are introducing, likewise, an entirely new line of
American goods, in the shape of toilet soaps and other
requisites, which are superior to anything of the kind
imported from Paris or London.
I You are an acting-manager
That really is O.K.;
You’ve got a knack of keeping all
The dead-head boys away.
The “ stranger that’s within our gates”
Don’t get passed in the show ;
And to “ bluff" all the bold "perfesh.”
The proper way you know.
The song-and-dance man never comes
Around while you are there.
Nor ladies of the ballet, with
Their gleaming golden hair.
Bank managers, and all that sort.
Who have pot lots of “ tin,”
Are th’ only boys that yon’ll allow
For nothing to pass in.
So, take this emu-inkstand, George,
This album with our cartes.
And keep green all our memories
In your sweet heart of hearts.
For there’s no knowing—life is chequer’d
With dramatic elves.
How soon, dear Goodman, we may want
To be passed in ourselves.
* * *


T
HEA T R E
Le«*»
Acting Manager...
ROYAL.
Mr. Sami. Lazar.
Mr. G. L. Goodman.
THUBSDAT and FRIDAY, May 12 and 13,
last nights of
H.M.S. PINAFORE.
SATURDAY, MAY 14.
In compliance with the universal desire to once more
witness Miss MAGGIE MOORE
and
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON
in drama, the management have much pleasure in
announcing t)iat arrangments have been effected
whereby they will appear on SATURDAY, May 14, for
FIVE NIGHTS ONLY,
in the old favourite
“ STRUCK OIL."
.JOHN STOFEL Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON
LIZZIE STOFEL Miss MAGGIE MOORE.
NEW SCENERY by Mr. GEORGE GORDON.
Supported by a specially selected company of favourite
artists.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bay less.
MONTAGUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY.
THIS EVENING,
WALLACE’S Romantic Opera,
MAR IT AN A.
Conductor, M. LEON CARON.
Box Office and Plan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s,
325 George-street.
Prices of Admission; Private Boxes, £2 25.; Orchestra
Chairs, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Balcony, 25.; Pit, Is.
Doors open at 7.15; commence at 8. Carriages may
be ordered for 10 30.
J AMES D. COX, Treasurer.
(gYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
EDWARD S. WOLFE General Manager.
O. T. JACKSON Stage Manager,
FOURTH WEEK
and
CONTINUED SUCCESS.
R. B. LEWIS’
MASTODON MINSTRELS
MASTODON MINSTRELS
MASTODON MINSTRELS
MASTODON MINSTRELS
MASTODON MINSTRELS
MASTODON MINSTRELS
IN THEIR NEW PROGRAMME.
EVERYTHING ENCORED.
GREAT SUCCESS
JONfsON-JONES’S MUTTON TRIAL,
and
FLEWY PLEWY.
GREAT SUCCESS
of
J. R. MATLOCK,
TRAVELLING BACK TO DIXEY.
Prices Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Chairs 35.;
Stalls. 25.; Pit, Is.
(gcHOOL OP ARTS.
LAST NIGHTS OF PROFESSOR ANDERSON.
Sixth Week of
PROFESSOR AND LOUISE ANDERSON.
GLORIOUS AND OVERWHELMING SUCCESS.
GRAND GIFT NIGHT TO-NIGHT.
Suit of Clothes—an order on leading tailor for a suit of
clothes. Elegant Electro Tea and Coffee Service,
Paper-Machd Table. Large Flower Stand, com-
plete, with handsome China Pot. A Beautiful
Silver Cake Basket. Large Family Album. Clocks,
Work-boxes, Desks, Silver Castors, and a hetero-
geneous mass of 94 Useful and Valuable Presents.
•
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
Proprietors, Messrs. THYNNE and HICKIE.
Open to treat with STARS and ARTISTES of
acknowledged ability in every line of business. Seating
accomm odation—l4oo.
piRATES OP PENZANCE.
To whom it may concern, I hereby give notice that I
have sold to Mr. J. J. LIDD? the sole right of repre-
senting Gilbert and Sullivan’s Opera, the “PIRATES
OF PENZANCE," in the colony of QUEENSLAND,
for a period of three mouths from May 14th, 1881.
J. C. WILLIAMSON,
. Petty’s Hotel.
Professional Addresses
ISS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
Mr. m. s a l a m o n.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
MR. AND MRS. W. H, THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ON TOUR;
St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, March 27th till end of
April.
Tasmania, New Zealand to follow.
M
WINE CELLARS,
V 7 119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
•B- Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confldent that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
J) AV I D M’CALL,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
K.C.M.G.
Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,1873, and 1875.
rjiHE
NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over a Til, competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot be too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B, O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street,
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewi g Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful M^achine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BRASS FOUNDERS AND PLUMBERS,
COPPERSMITHS, GASPITTERS, AND GENERAL BLACKSMITHS,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
PLUMBING WOKE IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. BRASS WORK OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
IMPORTERS OF
DIVING GEAR, CHANDELIERS, &c.
MANUFACTURERS OF
BRASS WINDOW-SASH BARS,
PUMPS, SINGLE AND DOUBLE ACTION, & HYDRAULIC LEATHER HOSE PIPES, &c.
SHIPS WORK DONE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF THE MARSHALL PATENT WINDOW FASTENER.
INb U
Jl*
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEORGE STREET, HAY MARKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
We beg to call special attention of'the public to our BLENDED TEAS Uinoaf Pamilv
p l6 V d ’d h' ; Fme d t 'h R °- yal Ble “ d ’, 2 / 6; Superior Queen's Blend, 3/-; Superior Empress Blend,
Packed by us, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee of purity and weight. Sold in 41b and 21b
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b; also, catties, boxes i 0 Ainu t™ e
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers—REUßEN Manager. § °
gINGER’S
JEWING
jyj-ACHINES
gINGER’S
gEWING
jy/J-ACHINES
UNPARALLED DEMAND
MOKE POPULAR
THAN EVER!
OVER 500,000 were SOLD in the
YEAR 1880, being at the rate of
1600 for every Working Day,
and three-fourths of all the Sew-
ing Machines sold throughout
the World.
gINGEE’S
gEWING
J^/J-ACHINES
gINGEE’S
gEWING
jyj'ACHINES
gINGEE’S
gEWING
jyjACHINES
gINGEE’S
gEWING
J^/J-ACHINES
gINGEE’S
gEWING
-jy|-ACHINES
gINGEE’S
gEWING
J^J-ACHINES
THIS IMMENSE SALE is the
RESULT of the World-Wide
REPUTATION OBTAINED by
THESE MACHINES.
UNEQUALLED for Superiority of
Workmanship, strength and
beauty of stitch, and adapta-
bility TO EVERY CLASS OP
SEWING.
10 PEE CENT.
DISCOUNT
For CASH.
EASY TEEMS,
2s 6d Weekly,
WITHOUT ADDITION
TO THE PRICE.
CAUTION!
BEWARE of PERSONS who, hav-
ing no good trade repute, resort
to Impudent Puffery, and do
thereby deceiye the UNWARY.
COUNTERFEIT MACHINES of
inferior Construction and Manu-
facture under various fanciful
names, are being, with HUGE
EFFRONTERY, offered to the
public as superior to the genuine.
gINGEE’S
gEWING
jyj"ACHINES
To avoid DECEPTION, buy no
Machine that has not “The
Singer Manufacturing Com-
pany,” printed upon the arm,
and impressed upon the brass
TRADE MARK.
D
EPOT IN SYDNEY.
NO. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET.
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LISTS FREE !
The wondeeful weetheim
SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
vary fine double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OP
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OF CHARGE. Price I'sts and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY, George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a WERTHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT, WITHOUT
INTEREST.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
“HOME” SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
EXPRESS
3
o
s
•■A
e
'P
CIA/
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
20,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3.—Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian “ Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
S3* LOOK FOR THE NAME !!!
NOW OPEN,
THE
C ITY c ATERING QOMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cafe, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls. Banquets, Dinners Weddings. Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always or hire.
HAS. R. gMI’TH,
MANAGER.
p.
R.
R
N.
Wholesale and Eeta
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Farramatta-street)
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pnre Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
W HOLES ALE AND RETAIL WINB AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayxnarket.
URPHY AND
IMPORTERS OF
SON,
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, Ac.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT, READY FOE USE, ANY SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 3rd May, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
OTICE is hereby that unless the Lessees
' execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from
this date, it will be declared void.
E. A. BAKER.
Southern Mining District.
No., 61; Robert Ison and others; Portion No., 50 ;
County of St. Vincent, parish of Ettrema; 3 acres ;
Application No. 78-3.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
GLOVE, HOSIERY & BOOT & SHOE WAREHOUSE,
12 HUNTER-STREET, SYDNEY.
J. M. ELLERCAMP
(Many years with Messrs. Farmer and Co.)
Desires respectfully to inform the inhabitants of Sydney
and the suburbs that he has purchased the old-estab-
lished business of Messrs. Parrott Brothers.
J. M. E. is now offering for sale the whole of the
stock for CASH at a great reduction from its
ORIGINAL COST, and trusts, by strict attention to
the requirements of his patrons, and by importing a
regular succession of novelties, for which arrangements
have been made, to merit a fair share of the patronage
so long bestowed upon his predecessors.
April 25,1881,
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which wi l l be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 OEOR&E STREET,
HAYMARKET.
A G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand, Is 6d per
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, ail sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.


&
SINGLE
DOUBLE-FURROW
Single-furrow Plopgts. We have the largest assortment o
requirements of every district. Fanners, write us for information.
HORNBY'S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
BOWMP’S New Pattern Ploughs, jus* brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
ritobi;
and 3. Th
We invite
info:
HARROWS —Zh
We recommend HOWA.SI
have other makes, some of w
Howard’s }
21iszae >width f
& & f Weight
Barrows. )
Onr Stock of Harrows includ
sizes. 1
■389 GEORGE STREET
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, SYI
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS
Sole Agents fob Messrs. Tanqts Bros
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND lEEIGATIN
Engines and Boilers of all si
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, F<
IN STOCK.
£Y E S
PERFECT
PURI
Non-poisonoua! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Aj
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for horn
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Qeo. Woolnough,
for my throat I could not desire anything more effect!
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, S'
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newt
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearuq
Prom Mr. H. Meads, Sydney My child had sore eyes for 2
one week. From C. A, Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fm
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pit!
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, S
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agent
s cS? cVd.
Miscellaneous
CLIFFORD, LOVE
TEA IMPOETEI
EASTERN AND COh
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignment!
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualitie
Do. Indian Prize Med
CHXJTNIES—Indian Prii
PRESERVES—Indian Pi
COPFEE —Plantation No
Do. „ Pe;
Do. „ No
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and BL
OFFICES 79 TORE
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B 1
TOH N D
IMPOSTER Or
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswr
Gasfit tings, Globes, Electric I
Butchers’ Brine Pt
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &<
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
- ass
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL,, d
ALLWOOL
Miscellanea
T3EISCOE, DETSD
-*"* 397 George Stj
76, 78, 145, 147 Yobi
33 Pitt St re
lEONMON GEES, lEONME
IMPOETEEI
Invite attention to their extens
which besides being the largest ii
varied ; and comprises all the late
Engines Engineers’ Material
Agricultural Implements, T 1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, B
Axles, Buggy,hodiea, Lam]
Pounders’ Material, Pig Iron,
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chan
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hi
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, G
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled X
And
GENEEAL lEONM<
ILL'JO X
W
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4los
S. HEBBLET
416 GEORGE STI
MACHI]
H. P. GEEGOEY
No. 11, PITT-STI
Importers of all Desci
M A C H I 1!
Have for Sale
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special
Machinery—Sydney Exnibitic
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pm
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw
tucks packing round and squa
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —F<
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oi
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars ai
KING STREET S
_ TAILOR
A CARD.
I)
STANICH, the eminent OCULIST and
AUEIST, is now on a professional visit to
Queensland. For further Particnlars ride
Queensland papers.
OOCH A.ND ROBEETS,
\J| (From London an late witli J. Campbell,)
HAIEDEESSEES AND WIGMAKEES,
Importers and Manufacturers of Human Hair.
21 HUNTER STREET,
BETWEEN GEOEGE AND PITT STREETS.
SYDNEY.
