

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s.—No, 60.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 19, 1881.
Price —3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY MARCH 19, 1881.
The Execution of the Czar.
The Czar is dead. Executed in the very presence
of those legions which constituted the basis of his
despotism. That the man was executed who can
doubt ? All the world has known—he himself had
been aware for over a year—that sentence of death
had been pronounced against him. The sentence
of a tribunal, irregular indeed in the eyes of for-
malists, but as competent to decide the life and
death of a fellow man as any which ever assembled
in all the grimace of horsehair ; a tribunal, also,
whose right to act was founded on the same base
as that of all other tribunals—the power to enforce
its sentences. Such power can only be derived from
a co-operation of people in firm agreement as to
their objects. Virtuous monarchs have been
assassinated ere now, by the act of some maniac
or ruffian. But no guiltless ruler has
ever vet been pursued with the persistent deter-
mtnation and self-sacrificing zeal which
dogged the Russian Despot to his
doom. A well-governed nation, satis-
fied that the principles of justice
predominate in aH the acts and pur-
poses of its rulers, cannot produce a
body of malcontents so numerous as to be
inseparable from the nation itself by
any alchemy which the ingenuity of a
horde of spies can bring to bear. The
enemies of Alexander IF. and of his
rule could be detected nowhere, simply
because they were every-where. The
grave gaped for the man, and hell
yearned for him. A million waiting
ghosts of human beings sacrificed to
glut his ambition, and even to minister
to his vanity, clutched at him as he sat
on his throne. A million living spectres,
groaning in the obscene gloom of
Siberian mines, or eating their riven
hearts in Northern exile, cried aloud to
Heaven and Earth for a sentence against
the man who had immolated them that
he might preserve his spurious pre-
eminence. A million of orphans and
widows dropped tears, every one of
which burnt, like vitriol, an inefface-
able accusation against this man, in
the eternal records. Heaven and Earth
heard the many-voiced appeal, and
read the tremendous reckoning. The
curse of Cain fell upon the Despot,
even amidst his utmost splendour. His
hand had been against every man’s.
Every man’s hand turned against him.
He feared his people. He feared his
servants. His generals terrified him
more than they intimidated the enemies
of the nation. He had always dis-
trusted his brother. He now trembled
at his son. He suspected his police.
His life became a burden to him.
This magnificent monarch was crushed
so low that he lived in mortal terror of
his cook! No one would have con-
ceived, a year or two back, that this
head of the House of Romanoff
regarded life as so precious a thing,
or domestic ease as so valuable a posses-
sion. He had sacrificed thousands of
lives with a nod. That his arbitrary
will might be undisputed, he had so
ordered his empire tnat no man sitting
by his fireside to-night could tell that
to-morrow night he might not be hurried
through the snow to perpetual punish-
ment in the wilderness, never more to
see the wife he loved, or kiss the babe
he cherished. Born of a race of ruffians
and harlots, cruelty and lust were
native in his blood, and a violent death
his heritage. When the attempt to
destroy him and his parasites in his
palace occurred, a German paper aptly
said that to all appearance the well-
known family disease, which killed
many a Russian Emperor, had broken
out in a novel form, strangling being
no longer compatible with the spirit
of the times. Again we say that his
death was not an assassination.
It was an execution—the execution of a
murderer more deeply dyed than ever
swung on a British gallows, of a criminal stained
with atrocities more numerous and awful than any
man in a private station ever accomplished. Since
the attempt of Solovieff, that patriotic exe-
cutioner-elect who staked his life in the due per-
formance of the duty delegated to him, the Czae
neyer appeared in public except surrounded by
armed mercenaries. His very guards were not
Russians, but Fins. He was skulking from the ven-
geance of his people. In alien hireling force was his
only refuge. And even that failed him, as of course
it would. A determined people, so roused that
one after another did not hesitate to venture their
lives to attain their object, could not be baulked.
But, cry the apologists of crime when the criminal
is one in authority—and we have such apologists
even in our daily papers—he was amiable, he was
liberal, he was areformer. An amiable Romanoff !
Do figs grow upon thorns, or grapes on thistles ? An
amiable scion of that family whose existence has
been for over a century only maintained by a
series of murders ! The savage Petek, with his
fra,me perpetually on the dance from the effects of
poison, believed to have been administered by his
loving sister Sophia (whom he imprisoned for life
in a monastery when he got the upper hand); the
strangled Paul, idiot and martyr; the debauched
Catherine ; the lascivious Anne ; the gloomy
‘Nicholas, about whose death there yet hangs a
mystery like a shroud. These are Alexander’s
family. Nicholas was his father. His death is
thus summarised: —A defeated army—a discon-
tented people and court—a slight cold, developed
with incredible rapidity—mysterious dispensation
of Providence—a corpse lying in state, face
covered up—rumblings of doubt through the
Press of Germany and Denmark—a Palace plot-
brother against brother—Long live Alexander
II.! But Alexander emancipated the serfs.
True, he was sagacious then, before pride had
utterly blinded him, and he saw that the power of
the nobles threatened the throne, threatened Him
—jand must be broken. The serfdom of Russia
disappeared. Russians are now only slaves to
their Emperor. He freed the press. Yes, and
tied it up again tighter than ever. He was a good
husband—yes, to his concubines. He had ex-
cellent intentions—they will help to pave hell.
Mr. Jnlian E. Salomons, Q.C.
The Supreme Court of New South Wales has not
only been irradiated by the learning and genius of
able judges, but its Bar has been signally dis-
tinguished by able forensic orators. Nobody
doubts the solid qualities of the late Mr. Butler’s
mind, the earnestness and power of Mr. Darley,
the persuasiveness of Mr. Coleridge Davis, and
Mr. Pilcher, or the burning or burnished periods
of Mr. W. B. Dailey; but probably of all the
successes that have been achieved in that
arena—the gloomy precincts of the Supreme
Court—not one has been more unique, more
remarkable for pluck, perseverance, vivacity,
and bonhomie than that of the gentleman whose
portrait we give in our first page to-day.
Mr. Salomons has not only succeeded as a lawyer,
but has stamped his reputation on the Press
of the country as a litterateur, while in private
life the charming qualities of his mind render him
an agreeable companion—a welcome friend —in
whatever circle he chooses to move. There is not
the faintest aroma of exaggerated praise in this
estimate of the bright, genial, and learned little
gentleman on whose career we are commenting;
because although we know he has mounted the
rungs of a golden ladder, we also know that he
has done so by honorable efforts, unflagging
energy, and hard work. He has never
been a drone in the civic hive, and he never gained
‘acoigne of ’vantage” by the aid of political
influences. The moral of his life and success,
then, lies in the lesson it gives to many of our
young men who intend to become jurisconsults—
namely, to work with the same zeal, steadiness of
purpose, and cultivation of refined manners,
with which he has worked, for although pugnacity
is a distinguishing trait of his character as an
advocate, he so manages to blend amiability with
his marvellous fanesse in cross-examination that
| witnesses are surprised at the ease with which he
makes them unbosom the “ whole truth.” The
brief biographic lines of his life are notable. He
was born in Warwickshire, England, in 1836. His
rudimentary education was entrusted to private
tutors, and at an early age he manifested great
aptitude for mathematical studies. He immigrated
to this colony while yet in his teens, and soon
received cordial recognition from members of the
Hebrew faith, many of whom, at that early period,
discovered his remarkable practical talents. He
distinguished himself as a debater at the Sydney
School of Arts, as far back as 1855, while studying
for the Bar ; and although he prepared himself for
the dreary classical ana mathematical examination
which then prevailed, according to the rules of our
Supreme Court and, we believe, passed
it, acting under the advice of friends he
set out for London (in 1858), and entered
at Gray’s Inn, in the March term of that year,
and was called to the Bar in the Hilary term of
1861. During a considerable portion of his law
course he was a pupil in the chambers of the dis-
tinguished conveyancing counsel, Mr. Wally, and
subsequently studied pleading with the late Mr.
E. G. Williams, Q.C. He returned to the colony
in 1861, and, recognising that the law was a
jealous mistress, brooking no rival, Mr. Salomons
devoted himself almost exclusively to his profes-
sion, and soon made himself felt in the several
courts. He for years persistently avoided entering
either House of Legislature, until pressed by the
late Sir Charles Cowper, in 1869, to become So-
licitor-General, which office he accepted and held
for about a year, going out with his
party on the 15th December, 1870. It
was not till the notorious Bertrand case
obtruded itself upon public attention
that Mr. Salomons gave proof of his ex-
traordinary research, versatility, and
legal resources. This is among the
most extraordinary causes ceUbres in
the history of jurisprudence. A rumour
spread through Sydney, early in Octo-
ber, 1865, that Mr. Henry Kinder, prin-
cipal teller of the City Bank, had com-
mitted suicide by shooting himself, but
evidence oozed out afterwards incri-
minating Mrs. Kinder, the deceased’s
wife, and a dentist, named Louis
Bertrand, as the murderers. They were
placed on their trial at the Central
Criminal Court in March, 1866, and the
inquiry resulted in the acquittal of Mrs.
Kinder. Bertrand (the jury not be-
ing able to agree at the first trial)
was found guilty at the second
and sentenced to death. The late Mr.
Isaacs defended him at the first investi-
gation, and Mr. Dailey at the second.
On the third day before the date fixed
for his execution, the case was submit-
ted to Mr. Salomons, who at once saw
his way to move the Supreme Court in
arrest of judgment. This was, probably,
the only case in which four Judges ever
sat in our BancoCourt. The Court was
successfully moved to set aside the con-
viction, and ordered a new trial. The
then Attorney-General (Sir James Mar-
tin) and hia legal colleagues, not being
pleased at their defeat by so young a
lawyer as Mr. Salomons, sent the mat-
ter to the Judicial Committee of the
Privy Council, which, without deter-
mining the substantial points raised in
the Court below, I: eld that, whatever
were the defects, recourse could only
be had to the Executive Council,
because by the law of England—of
which Regina v. Bertrand is now the
standard case—no new trial could be
granted where the charge was one of
felony. This matter raised Mr. Salo-
mon’s reputation as a lawyer to the
acme of popularity. It may be worth
while to mention that Bertrand’s sen-
tence was subsequently commuted to
imprisonment for life, on the ground of
insanity ; and he is now in Darlinghurst.
Mr. Salomons has visited England five
or six times since his admission to the
bar, and like a gallant gentleman, went
home when his first honours were
“thick upon him,” and married the
lady who has since become the mother
of his two daughters. It will be
remembered that at a meeting of the
Society of Arts, held in London, last
year, when Mr. William Forster perhaps
somewhat injudiciously attacked the
colony of New South Wales and its
rulers, Mr. Salomons, in a powerful
speech, ably defended both, and was
afterwards waited on by Sir Charles
Nicholson and other ex-colonists, who
thanked him for his timely vin-
dication of colonial public honour. It
is a curious fact, and serves to illustrate
the many-sided genius of this gentleman, that
while a writer on the Empire newspaper
in the late Mr. S. Bennett’s time, he was
invited to give an opinion as to whether an
article written by himself was libellous or not.
Of course, the gentleman on whom it was supposed
MR. JULIAN E. SALOMONS, Q.C.


to reflect, and who sought the advice, did not
know that Mr. Salomons was his political critic.
On Mr. Salomons’ seturn from England, a few
weeks ago, his Excellency the Governor, with the
advice of the Executive Council, appointed him
Q.C., a graceful and timely recognition of his dis*
tinguished career. With health and vigour
thoroughly restored, and a resolution to spend the
remainder of his days in a colony with which he is
so creditably associated, we have reason to hope
be will make his way before long into the Legisla-
tive Assembly, and there bestow on the public
business some of that maturity of judgement and
logical precision which have so pre-eminently dis-
tinguished him in the Law Courts of the colony.
Coffee and Chloe.
Coffee and morality, so teetotal orators tell ne, are
almost interchangeable terms. Yet coffee-stalls have
practically been driven from the streets of Sydney—
the city above all others where an honest man who has
the money may not buy a cigar and a glass of wine on
Sunday afternoon. A few publicans object to the
coffee-stall as an institution, because it commences, or
rather used to commence, its operations before mid-
night—because threepences were spent in non-intoxi-
cants that might otherwise have been laid out in
one or other of those turpentine-and-beeswax or white-
spirit-and-fusel-oil mixtures which good-natured, in-
nocent, easy-going people call “ gin ” or “ brandy.”
So, whenever a coffee-stall locates itself within
a quarter of a mile of a “ whisky-mill, the
boniface instantly appeals to Policeman X, who orders
the coffee-stall keeper to “ move on "—the only reason
given being the legal lie that the thoroughfare is being
“obstructed.” The coffee-stalls, or at any ra*e tbe
best of them, belong to the Coffee Palace Co up my,
whoso authorities, though pious and therefore power-
ful municipally and otherwise, are yet not so potent os
that large body of the elect who don’t hold Coffee
Palace shares. A few overfed clerical bullies and the
compact phalanx of "Holy Joeys” who hang to their
coat-tails have quite made up their minds that coffee-
stalls should be abolished on the ground that they are
the nightly resort of the abandoned. Therefore, be-
cause we have in our midst some very virtuous people,
there are to be no more cakes and ale, or coffee and
mutton pies. Now, when immoral people go to the
theatre or to church—and immoral people are some-
times found even in edifices regarded as sacred —they are
obliged to behave themselves, and there can be n®
earthly reason why, when they go to coffee-stalls in
public places, they should not he compelled to do
likewise. All people who happen to he out at night are
not immoral, and it would therefore he much better if
Policeman X., inste id of being told to hunt coffee-stalls
from one place to another, were instructed to keep
their habituex in order—in short to regulate the actions
of a class which, while the world goes round, can never
be exterminated. Judging from certain notorious facts
it would really seem that the policeman, who is
supposed to exist for the public good, is leagued with
those who make a living out of immorality. The night
cabman or his passenger, the printer, or the artisan
going early to work, may not have a cheap meal between
dark and dawn, hut d> of them may sneak into some
low public-house whose owner lives not by what his
customers eat, hut by what they drink. The Inspector.
General of Police is, of course, quite unaware that
there exists in our public streets more than one place
which is tbe nightly resort of scores of foul-mouthed
abandoniUes, and at which meals are sold at compara-
tively extortionate rates. These houses are not licensed,
but those who from choice, or from necessity—con-
sequent on the practical abolition of the coffee-stall —
enter them, may, by paving in advance for drink, have
it brought; to them—ostensibly from outside. Phryae in
silk may go to the “ cofti ” to drink “ Boederer " (made
in Pitt-street ) and eat duck and green peas, while
ragged, shivering Chloo outside longs for the coffee-
stall. And all this because we have amongst us
some very respectable old fogies, who always say their
prayers and go to bed at ten o’clock, and think every-
body else should fqjlow suit. It is true that coffee-stall
associations ore not such as would suit Diaua; but then
her hungry, belated Eudymion may without loss of
dignity stand up and eat in the street. We ask Mr.
Posbery and the City Council whether a large section
of the public is to he inconvenienced merely because a
few fanatics are afraid of Eudymion being allowed to
view the disenchanting spectacle of ravenous Asposia
munching saveloys at two in the morning ?
M. Kowalski and the S. M. Herald.
Professional musicians os a rale are terribly cantan-
kerous people; worse still, the most erratic and
unpleasant of them are the most clever. To this rale
there are few exceptions. On the other hand, musical
critics are also a crabbed race, but it is a melancholy
fact that those of them who are most notorious for
smearing their friends with honey and pouring out
upon their foes the “ black bile of personal malignity "
are those who are least reliable and know least about
their business. We are not aware, except from public
report, who is responsible for the musical criticisms
which appear in the S. M. Herald, but, having read
these productions for a long time past, wa are quite
certain that whoever writes them makes up his or her
mind, at the outset of every professional’s local career,
or perhaps even a little before, to “ make him or break
him" —we quote from Mrs. Crupps. Granny assured
Ketten’s prosperity in S 3 dney, and she has done her
“level and malicious best," first, to “break”
Kowalski, and then to damn him with faint praise.
We say this not with a view to entering upon a tech-
nical discussion as to the relative merits of the
two great pianists named, but as a preliminary to
pointing out a few facts affecting the veracity of the
Herald's critic which may possibly have escaped public
attention. The other day it was assserted in the Herald,
apparently as an apology for the very bad form dis-
played by bl. Ketteniu the matter of his charity concert,
that the entertainment in question was announced
before M Kowalski's arrival in this city. This state-
ment, though literally correct, was extremely dis-
ingenuous, inasmuch os it was perfectly well known by
the Herald critic and by everyone else that Ketten did
not announce his intention of returning to Sydney nntil
long after Kowalski had made arrangements for appear-
ing here. Again, the Herald b reference to the
«• execrably bad taste" displayed by Kowalski in
bracketing and playing together two pieces of music
quite dissimilar in character, is utterly unwarrantable
in face of the fact that such is the practice at
the best Continental and American concerts. It may
be necessary to state for the Herald’s information
that the performer’s object in taking the course
so strongly condemned was obviously not to place
before the audience two “ similar ” pieces, but
simply, in deference to various tastes, to
make the two pieces as dissimilar as possible. The
“ execrable'* manner in which the Herald has
treated M. Kowalski, who, besides being a great
musician, is an accomplished journalist and a corres-
pondent of the Paris Fioaro, is by no means calculated
to improve the musical reputation of these colonies,
but is on the other hand likely to deter from visiting us
i every great musician who cannot in advance arrive at an
amicable understanding with the accomplished critics
who now try to “ make or break ” people. The best
proof that the sympathy of the Sydney musical public
is not with the Heeald’b critic is that, notwithstand-
ing that M. Ketten, for the purpose of ensuring a
I crowded house on the occasion of his last appearance,
announced that the proceeds of the entertainment were
for the charities, he only played to half a house.
We’d like to know how much there will be for the
charities after expenses are paid.
Dr. Renwick’s Anatomical Bill.
Body-snatch ino, evea in its palmiest days, was never
what in this msthetic age would be termed a fashionable
profession. One cannot account for or overcome
prejudice, hut should the hon. and medical member for
East Sydney pass his Anatomical bill into law—which,
Heaven forbid—dealers in dead bodies will become as
plentiful as applicants for the vacant police magistracy.
We have all heard of cherry-cases being substituted for
coffins, properly so called, and we shall now have lay
figures occupying the place of the defunct, but lawful
possessors, whilst all that remains on earth of the dear
departed will be gaily adorning the table of some suck-
iug Galen. This is a matter which most closely affects
Insurance Companies. Hoes nob the body of the
insured, after the due payment of the amount of the
I policy, belong to the company ? It is so in the case of
insured furniture, household property, ships, &0., and
why should it not be the same with regard to human
beings ? Ergo, if corpses werajworth in the market, say
five g aineas “ per head," could the inBura.no6Compa.ni6s
in justice to their shareholders allow any stupid
squeamishness to prevent the realization of nil avail-
able assets?
SOCIAL.
That gigantic fan!
The projected marriage of that Campbell town
belle is “ off.”
Interesting divorce case shortly. All the parties
hail from Young.
At weddings, in Albnry, dress-coats are worn.
Continental fashion.
The belle of the Campbelltown bachelors’ ball
came from Liverpool.
A Yass lady has said “ yass ” to an Adelong
squatter. Wedding shortly.
The bachelors and “ benedicts ” ballat Lithguw,
on Wednesday night week, was a success.
A partner in a leading commercial firm in’Mor-
peth will shortly marry a lady from Surry Hills.
A ball is to be given by the bachelors of Hay and
district on tho 18th inst, the second day of the annual
races.
A wedding will shortly eventuate between a
well-known resident of Wallsend and a young squatter
of Singleton.
The noise of the tram is driving the fashionable
doctors from Liverpool and Elizabeth-streets to Mac-
quari e-street.
The daughter of a leading resident of Grafton
will shortly marry a gentleman who holds a high
position in the A. J.S. Bank.
A quiet and somewhat romantic wedding took
place at a Sydney registry-office on Wednesday night.
Bride comes from Woollahra.
The youngest son of an official assignee will
shortly lead to the altar the second daughter of a
wealthy Murrumbnrrah squatter.
A most unpleasant discovery was the other day
mode by a Potts’ Point professional man. Judge
Windeyer will probably hear the case, in which a
military gentleman will figure.
A gentleman who has long been engaged in
pastoral pursuits the other day succeeded to a con-
siderable fortune and celebrated the event by marrying
an attractive King-street Hebe,
A young lady, sister of a well-known eloquent
Presbyterian clergyman, has met with a very painful
bereavement. She was married in October to an officer
of a vessel trading to this pert, and in September
following her husband was drowned at sea.
After the performance at the Theatre Royal
last Thursday a special rehearsal was held for the pur-
posa of trying on the dresses of the Pirates of Penzance
and suiting them to the figures and complexions of the
ladies of the company. The costumes are extremely
beautiful.
“Those satin slippers” have now been the
admiration of the Block for the whole fortnight. It
isn’t likely that the lady, who has so much reason to he
proud of her feet, will have many competitors. She
wouldn’t have a rival even in China. It’s quite re-
freshing to gaze on fairy-boots instead of on ferry-boats,
or coffin or canoe sized extremity-covers.
Three gentlemen card-players belonging to a
certain fashionable club not iu Sydney, and not in
Brisbane, are alleged to have recently relieved a certain
millionaire of no less a sum than £40,000. Play lasted
from after a late and sumptuous dinner until breakfast
time. The whole story, which is a somewhat sensa-
tional one, will, we hear, shortly be made public.
There has been much discussion in Hobart
about a garden party given on Ist March. Invitations
were scattered broadcast —the dead as well as the living
being remembered. One lady who had been dead for
twenty years was asked, and the irate survivor wrote to
ask that his wife’s name be taken off the books. A
good many of the £lite were conspicuous by their
absence. They had been omitted from the previous
“ At Homes,” and did not choose to appear at the
garden party.
Mr. James Service, tbe ex-Premier of Victoria,
a hard-headed Scotchman, left by last mail for England.
In the passenger-list of the steamer appeared his
mme and that of Mrs. Service and family. Next day in
the Age was published a letter from one Allan, stating
that his sister, Mrs. James Service, was still in Mel-
bourne. Now is not this nice ? Victorians are very
fortunate in the possession of Premiers whose ways are
peculiar as regards the nuptial tie. Graham Berry can
corroborate this.
A party of ladies and gentlemen took a trip
down in the Hon. W. J. Clarke’s yacht to Brown’s
River (near Hobart) the other day. The Wolverene
was also down there, and the yacht anchored within
hail of the war-ship at night. There only be ng two
spare bunks aboard the yacht, the ladies were accom-
modated in the larger craft, while their husbands
pissed the night on the “Janet." It was certainly
indiscreet, especially as neither the Commodore nor
Mrs. Wilson were aboard, but it did not warrant the
fuss that was made of it. Honi suit gui mal y pense.
“ Shanghai ” writes na from Melbourne thus :
•' Just let me tell your lady readers—if you have any—
that quite a new style of dancing has come into fashion
at home, and is being rapidly adapted here. It is called
euphoniously “The Cuddle." which name is sufficiently
explicit. I have only tried it once, and, although my
partner did not appear to object, a somewhat erratic
male relative placed beyond dispute any doubt that J
might haye entertained about his disapproval of it by
gently laying me on my back—after the party was over.
The case will shortly be heard of in one of courts of
justice."
Writes our Melbourne correspondent;—“ We
hav a Doll Show, and it only affords another instance
of Oi* truth of Carlyle’s remark about the quantity of
fools there are in this terrestial sphere of ours. Here
we have a variety of wax figures, indifferently made,
gazed at, praised, gushed over, &c., by beings claiming
to be possessed of reason. Certainly the object is a good
one, being charitable, but surely some more rational
means than exhibiting dolls could have been devised
Yet I suppose Byron Moore, the promoter of the show,
knows the mental calibre of ais lazy friends suffici-
ently well to not tax it by exercising it intellectually.
One thing I will say for the turn out —that you can see
some pretty faces which relieve the otherwise monoto-
nous scene. And another noticeable feature of it is the
absence of married men—except those who are under
petticoat government and are token or driven there
nolens nolens."
A brilliant Jewish'wedding took plaoe in Sydney
on Wednesday afternoon, the nuptials ( bring those
of Mr. Lewis H. Hnrt, of Melbourne, and Miss Dinah
Levey, daughter of Mr. Montagu Levey, J.P., Wynyard
Square. The marriage was celebrated at the Great
Synagogue by Kabbi Davis, and the interesting and
romantic ceremonial of marriage according to the
Jewish rite was witnessed by a very large and fashion-
able gathering. All the leading Jewish, and
many of the leading Christian families were represented.
After the ceremony, the guests, to the number
of about 130, were entertained at a sumptuous
banquet at the residence of the bride’s father.
The toasts and speeches were very good, and
music further enlivened the proceedings. At seven
o’clock the bridal party left the house amid the
conventional shower of rice and slippers, and repaired
by tr.iin to the Mountains, where they spend their
honeymoon prior to starting in the Cotopaxi on a tour
to Europe. The bridesmaids, who looked no less
bewitching than the handsome bride herself,
were eight in number. They were Miss Levey,
Miss Leah Levev. Miss Spiero, Miss Eomidtree, Miss
Moss, Miss Bella Levey, tnd Miss Maud Levey.
The bride wore a wedding-dress of ivory duchesse
satin, train immensely long, trimmed with wavy
flounces of same material, edged with lure; skirt
draped with magnificent point lace of exquisite fine-
ness, and wrought in the design of roses, marguerites,
and daisy chains. The drapery was finished with fes-
toons of ostrich feathers; sleeves entirely cover* d with
lace, and bretelles of same on bodice; necklet and
wreath of orange flowers, myrtle, and heath; plain
tulle veil. No jewellery was worn. The bride's travel-
ling dress consisted of a costume of embossed velvet
and satin de Lyon, trimmed with cords and tassels of
same colour. Six of the eight bridesmaids were attired
in white satin de Lyon—short dresses trimmed with
plush and Languedoc lace ; each wearing her favourite
flower in her hair, and on her neck white jessamine,
rosebuds and daisies, with green and silver maid* nhair
ferns. The two younger bridesmaids wore dresses of
white and cardinal plush, with hats to match. The
bride’s mother was attired in a very elegant dress of
sapphire embossed velvet, trimmed with an embroidery
of roses and convolvuli, traced with gold, ruffles and
bonnet of "point gaze” lace. One of the guests, with a
very attractive figure, wore a green-grey dress, trimmed
with blue and grey embossed velvet and Spanish lace,
with bonnet to match. Another, whose costume was
very much admired, was attired in black velvet, draped
with grand old “ Point Flanders." A third lady, who
acted as proxy for the mother of the bridegroom, wore
dove brocade satin, trimmed with duchesse lace —a
tasteful costume.
Some very charming novelties are being exhibited
at Peapes and Shaw’s, which has been one of the
attractions of George-atre*t during the past week. One
of the novelties is the Princess bonnet, in plush and
velvet, with muff to match, which are shown in our
engraving on page 4. The Princess bonnet is a most
artistic production, and with the muff in the new
fashionable material is really very attractive. Besides
thesearticles several other oftho newest designs for
the approaching autumn are shown.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Murray Smith will lead the Victorian
Opposition.
Sir Henry Parkea aaya it is the intention of the
Government to ask for a special grant for Munici-
palities.
Major Holborow does not lose his seat in the
Assembly because he held a Volunteer commission,
salary attached, at the time of his election.
Mr. Alexander Stuart characterised Mr. Mel-
ville’s lengthy oration against immigration as “ the
most inconsistent and illogical disertation he had ever
heard.”
The Legislative Assembly have decided that the
site for the new Public Library shall be that on which
the Immigration Depot and Colonial Architect’s Offices
now stand. The first decided win for Mr. G. H. Reid.
Last week’s Melbourne Punch alludes to J.
J. Casey as “ the Lightning Change Artist," and depicts
him clearing out with a bag of “props.” from Maldon,
“where he will not show, in consequence of other
professional engagements.”
In the Assembly, on Tuesday, Mr. Fitzpatrick
formally announced that he had retired from the leader-
ship of the Opposition. The hon. gentleman further
stated that several members of Parliament had crossed
the Chamber because they could not give a vote which
might have the effect of placing a Roman Catholic in
office.
A certain Parliamentary candidate now deplor-
ing the loss of-his deposit, used to address the electors
of foreign origin through the medium of a clerk of
linguistic ability. Thus every elector in tho consti-
tuency who bore a German name received a German
letter, and every man whose appellation was Gallic was
presented with a neat billet doux in French. It hap-
pened that a farmer, French only by extraction, and not
conversant with the tongue of his ancestors, went with
his epistle to the interpreter, paid a guinea for the
translation, and then “ made tracks ” for the candidate,
asking in a decided tone for a refund of the money.
The candidate made a wry face, put his hand deep down
in the pockets of an elaborate pair of trousers of his
own make, and—vowed that he would correspond no
more in foreign languages.
Sir Henry Parkes, in the Legislative Assembly \
the other day, said he was determined to uphold in the
colony Protestant ascendency. This is how Mr. Wil-
liam Forster treats the questionHe might congratu-
late the colony that we had a community so well
circumstanced in regard to religious questions. (Hear,
hear.) He could not bnt think that we did right long
ago when we severed the connection between Church
and State—(cheers)—and he thought that the Govern-
ment, so far as it had gone in that direction, had been
right in its tendencies towards a secular policy,
j (Cheers.) These were questions, it seemed to him,
I which were beyond the reach of Governments altoge-
ther. Let tis take the highest view possible of them
Let us suppose that some one religion or other had
received a"revelation from on high. Then the more
should it be sacred from contact with those earthly
things represented in a Government. (Hear, hear.)
He had heard that some people were in favour of main-
taining Protestant ascendency. He did not want to
see Protestant ascendency, or the ascendency of any
doctrine. Let us see the ascendency of truth, and
right—(cheers)—and justice, and those moral prin-
ciples which were recognised by our religions, and
which all good men were agreed on. (Cheers.) That
we could entrust a Government with safety, because
the Government had iu that the common consent of all
mankind; but he did not want to see the ascendancy of
doctrines of any kind which were disputed by good
men, and on which no Governments could be expected
to give opinions. (Cheers.) He congratulated the
colony on being ahead of older communities in this
respect. We did not pretend in our system of Govern-
ment to do more than govern for temporal interests
We provided good police, courts of law, and all the
elements of moral prosperity on which we could come
to a common consent of opinion; but we did not pro-
fess to teach or to enco mage religious dogmas, or the
propagation of dogmas of aov kind. (Cheers.) I'
seemed to him that the colonies, in whatever other
respects they might be behind the old countries of the
world, had the advantage of the mother country in this
respect. (Hear, hear.)
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Carcoar Agricultural Show—April 12th.
Woollahra Tramway opened on the 12th.
Big fire at Toowoomba ; six houses burnt.
Cotopaxi’s time, Melbourne to Sydney,
hours.
Bega A. and P. Show a great success. 2000
present.
The Judge Meymott inquiry cost the Govern-
ment £683.
Branch line of rail from Orange to Forbes being
agitated for.
Several shares in Temora claims have changed
hands at high prices.
Drill to be taught in all State schools, metro-
politan and provincial.
Two youths sent to gaol for three months each,
for tying a tin pot to a mare’s tail.
The “ refreshments for judges ” at the late
Sydney International Exhibition cost £539.
The South Australian Government has resolved
net to interfere with the 10 per cent, ad valorem duties.
The St. Patrick’s Day banquet, which promises
to be a most successful affair, takes place at the
Masonic Hall this evening.
The departure of the Aconcagua from the
Circular Quay on the 11th was witnessed by 2000 people.
Large number of passengers.
Alphonse Bechet committed for trial for alleged
arson in connection with the late fire in Barrack-street.
Bail allowed and forthcoming.
Mr. Ninian Melville has commenced an action
aesinst Mr. W. H. L. Bailey, of the Temora Herald.
Damages laid at £lO,OOO. Libel.
Port Alma is the new deep water port for Kep-
pel Bay. Land for a township has been reserved at
Eupotria Point, 27 miles from Eockhampton.
Nave and transept of Garden Palace to be
devoted to public amusements; other porti ms of main
floor to be occupied bv various scientific societies;
basement to be used as Government offices.
Mr. George Aitkeu, brother to Mr. F, G. Aitken,
and one of the leading merchants of Brisbane, who was
charged with larceny, has been honourably acquitted.
Proceedings for perjury are likely to follow.
The License of Dimond’s Hotel, Woolloomooloo,
over the granting of which there were many disputes
and one libel case, has been cancelled, the Government
having decided that it was illegally granted.
Gold, it is stated, has been discovered in the
Dandenong ranges, near Melbourne. Two men fos-
sicking in the locality are said to have secured 201bs.
weight in three weeks. Others have started for the
supposed field.
A new trial has been granted in the case of
Campbell v. the Commercial Bank, at defendant’s
instance. In the first trial a verdict of £3OOO was given
plaintiff. Then there was another trial, and plaintiff
was awarded £3500. The costs in the case, including
the expense of appeals to the Privy Council, are
enormous. The bank apparently has at last bluffed Mr.
Campbell out of this game of legal “poker."
Late news from Mount Browne diggings is not
assuring. There is a terrible scarcity of water, in con-
sequence of which a sacrifice of life is feared. Pas-
sengers by Cobb’s coach threatened to burn the coach
while en route to the diggings, in consequence of having
to walk a considerable distance. The disrgers threaten
to burn every shanty along the road. The stage from
Cobham Lake to the diggings is forty miles, and is now
without a drop of water.
At Penshurst, Vic., the other day, while Mr.
Hutton and an army of beaters were at work extinguish-
ing a bus-h tire, they observed a large hare dash out from
the middle of a burning patch across a three-chain road
which bad so far kept the rtre in check, and with her
coat all aflame, enter the thick grass in the opposite
paddock, which at once begin to burn furiously. The
idea which formerly existed, that the fur of living
animals would not carry flame, is now dispelled.
The D ly Dawn claim, Charters Towers, for the
week ending Feb. 25, turned out a cake of gold weighing
1404 izs. sdwts. 6grs. The owners intend crushing at
two mills in future, and will be able to put through
stone yielding 1500 ozs. p-r week. There is now within
sight a block of stone which cannot be worked out
under 12 months, all as good as that hitherto crushed.
The yield above referred to will he eqnal to 6000 ozs.
per month, or to the average yield of the whole field
for the last seven years. There is no mine in Australia
can compete with this Day Dawn (says the Northern
Miser), and it would seem as if it were only just
beginning.
Henri L’Estrange, the aeronaut, made a
balloon ascent f rom t ha Domain on the night of the 15th.
There was, as on the previous evening, an insufficient
supply of gas, and the ha loon, after ascending i short
distance, began to fall. It drifted over Woolloomooloo,
and had come in contact with a house, when L Estrange
cleverly saved his life by jumping on to the roof of the
building. The balloon then swung vio'ently against
another building, the escaping gas became ignited
and a serious explosion occurred. The balloon was
burnt,'and several persons slightly injured. L Estrange
managed the ascent with great skill, and displayed his
usual courage, but, as has always been the case, the gas
supplied him was either insufficient or of had quality.
The public are s ill inclined to assist. L’Estrange in his
efforts. He is certainly one of the pluckiest of men.
A Journalistic Duel.
The Bega Standard has the following paragraph; —
“Larrikin journalism roust sooner or later come to
grief, or the revolver and the ‘to-vie’ will become
‘institutions ’ The verdict against The Bulletin is the
first step against crushing this growing nuisance.”
Now, if the Colonial Secretary will grant the use of the
Garden Palace gratis for the occasion we'U gladly
meet the editor of this bncolic “ rag” and give him
gentlemanly satisfaction and choice of weapons.
Admission—Front seats, 55.; back, ditto, 2s. fid.
Snrvivor to take the gate money, minus funeral ex-
penses (on a first-class scale), of the defunct. To pro-
vide for the possibility of his electing to use rum or
whisky as his weapon we hasten to state that “ Ked
Heart and Walker’s” respectively are our brands.
Larry Folev, business manager. A member of Parlia-
ment has kindly promised to present one coffin to the
show.
The Booksellers and Stationers Picnic.
The third annual picnic of the Booksellers am*
Stationers’ of Sydney was held at Clontarf on Thursday
last. Our condensed account is as follows:—Weather
delightful, neither too hot nor too cold; 3 0 ladies and
gentlemen present, conveyed in the Eoyal Alfred to the
charming picnic grounds in two detachments —the first
at 9, the second at noon. At the picnic there were out-
door sports—cricket, rounders, and dancing in the
pavilion to the strains of the German Band. Refresh-
ments, including incomparable oysters, during the day.
and luncheon or dinner provided byCompagnoni in good
style. Chairman of banquet, Mr. Maddook, performed
his duties well. Speeches, a decided improvement on
last year’s oratory. Mr. E. Dunlop spike o( the want
of a society or combination in the trade; Mr. A. Lewis,
representative of Mr. George Rooertson, was loudly
cheered when he condemned the “8, 9, and 10 o'clock
at night booksellers ” and the public who patronised
! them ; and also when he touchingly referred to the loss
of “ poor young Dymook, whose memory is yet green.
Mr. Henderson, of Turner and Henderson, as was ex-
pected, with good taste referred to the splendid works
I now brought out in the trade, and as the latest in-
stanced that snperb production “ Victoria in 1880.
Mr. Fuller was poetical and happy, and even eloquent
about “ the ladies Mr. Colvin modestly replied*
Mr. Turner proposed “the Press,” and The j-p I*- 1 *-
letin was cheered and counter-cheered. A good-looking
young fellow responded for “ Granny.” Mrs. Maddoc*
distributed the prizes won by the married women la
grand race), the married men, the maidens, the youths,
boys, and girls; and Mr. A. Bayiiss took two excellent
photographsof the booksellers, their wives, and friends.
Messrs. J. Wisehart and Mr. J. W. B. Clarke are »
be thanked for their effort in connection with the
picnic.


HEATEE E O Y A L.
Lessee Mr. Sami. Lazar
Acting Manager Mr. G. L. Goodman
TO-NIGHT! (Thursday!
LAST NIGHT ! LAST NIGHT !
of
" H. M. S. PINAFORE.”
SATURDAY NIGHT, March 19.
"THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE.'
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON has the honour to announce
that he hns succeeded in securing, by special arrange-
ment with Mr. D’Oyly Carte, of London, the Latest
and Greatest Novelty of the Musical World, Messrs.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s famous Melo-dramatic Opera
‘‘THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE,”
which has created a furore throughout England and
America equalled only by its popular predecessor,
“ H.M.S. Pinafore.”
vio-” ■ - . ■ ■
“ THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE ” SEASON
will commence on SATURDAY, March 19th, when the
celebrated Opera, as regards
THE CAST
THE COSTUMES
THE SCENERY
THE MOUNTING
will be produced on a scale of magnificence never before
attempted in Australia.
QUEEN’S TREATS E.
LAST WEEK BUT TWO
of the management of
COPPIN, HENNINGS, and GREVILLE.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING,
FAREWELL BENEFIT
of
HARRY LESTON.
ROBERT EMMET, THE IRISH PATRIOT,
Professor Miller Mr. J. J. Wallace
Professor D Hareourt Mr. E. Thomas
Professor Meenan Mr. Edwin Brown
Mr. Fred Leston, and Larry Foley
will appear for this occasion only.
The whole to conclude with
JOHN WOPPS, THE POLICEMAN.
Gr
AIE T T
T H E A T E B.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Baylcss and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
THIRD GRAND ATTRACTION.
SWEATNAM’S MINSTRELS.
SWEATNAM’S MINSTRELS,
who have just completed a season of unprecedented
success at St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, of
100 CONSECUTIVE NIGHTS.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT,
SATURDAY, March 19.
JAMES D. COX, Treasure*.
( UHOOL OP AET 8.
TO-NIGHT, SATURDAY, 19th March,
Posit ve’y LAST NIGHT of
Mr and Mrs. HEWITT,
as future engagements must be fulfilled.
THE
MUSETTES MUSETTES MUSETEEB
MUSETTES MUSETTES MUSETTES
in their
Comic Operetta,
Z Z Z
ZIP ZIP ZIP
P P P
Strictly refined and fashionable Drawing Room
Entertainment.
Tickets may be had at Mrs. Kirby’s Book Store,
opposite Parmer’s.
Admission 35., 25., Is. Doors open 7.30. Commence
at 8 p.m. Carriages, 10.10.
H. HEWITT,
Manager.
w
CLUB.
ANNUAL PICNIC TO TENNYSON,
On SATURDAY, March 26.
A First-class Baud engaged. Steamers leave Wool-
loomoeloo Bay and Circular Quay. Tickets, Is 6d each.
Professional Addresses
ME. S. L A Z A E.
ADDRESS :
Professional —Theatre Royal.
Private—“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra.
Me. j. e. oeeyille.
ADDRESS;
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
Me. l. m. b a y l e s s.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently,
Me. feed. maeshall.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MISS MYEA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS ;
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
JL & MBS. HAERY EMMET,
(Miss Morion Melrose).
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street. till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquario-street, Sydney.
Me. m. s a l a m o n.
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
ME. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ON TOUR:
St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, March 27th till end of
April.
Tasmania, New Zealand to follow.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. 8. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zea’and. Pro-
ceedings will be taken against person copyiug or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. — Adv.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
When a gin gets tipsy at Rockhampton the
p M fines her ss. or twenty-four hours, and tells her
to' ‘‘pull away long a bush." The other day a large
mob of blacks were camped at Blacks!!. One of their
number died from natural causes; some of them,
however, persistently connected his death with a
civilized black named Pepper, a decent quiet fellow,
who had been in the employ of a resident for several
years. They therefore decoyed him into the scrub near
the river, just outside the town, and strangled him.
His body was found next day. An Aramac youngster,
nine years of age, the son of a carrier, who had been
ill-used by his father, ran away from the waggon and
tackled a dry stage of thirty miles, with a jam tin and
a brandy bottle filled with water. He pulled through,
and his father knocked up a horse go ! ng after him.
Milliif 4l1 ’ 8 electric brake is about to be tested on the
Victorian lines. It is not considered necessary to have
competitive trials between the Woods and Westing-
house brakes in Victoria, as the N. S. W. Government
are carrying them on just now for their own informa-
tion. Mrs. E. M. O’Brien isnow the sole proprietress
of the Port Douglas Gazette. The Cairns Ad-
vertises says that a sab-inspector of native police and
his men recently distributed tomahawks and knives
among a number of black gins and children. The
paper condemns the practice of giving niggers edge
tools. A new track has been opened from Calms to
the Herberton (Wild ßiver)—distance, Similes. The
infant daughter (aged 22 months) of Sergeant Halli-
gan, of Cairns, was lost in the bush, where her dead
body was discovered several days after. Inspector
Johnstone, the well-known native police officer, has
been appointed P.M. at Winton. Jack Maldoon, a
carrier well-known in the far North, was ripped up
whilst yoking a half-broken steer, and died instantly.
. A Mount Cornish stockman the other day came
across a riding saddle and a pack saddle hanging on a
fence. He followed up tracks and found three horses
lying dead. There was no sign of the owner, who had
probably “ jacked np” and wandered away in search of
water, from the nearest supply of which he was dis-
tant 25 miles. A real live Chinawoman landed at
Wellington, N.Z., the other day, and caused a sensa-
tion. There are only about a dozen in the colony
The survey party who, twelve months ago, started on
the boundary line between N. S. W. and Queensland,
have returned to Bnrringum in a pitiable state, broken
down in health and condition. They have experienced
great hardships, have had to cart water over 53 miles
at places, and sometimes to live on a pint of water a
day. A late arrival from Wild River tin mines says
that Mr. Gat butt has discovered a track from the Dry
River to Deepwater, at a distance not exceeding 85
miles. If this rumour turns out correct, Mourilyan
Harbour will become the natural outlet for the tin
mines. The population of Georgetown, Etheridge, is
dwindling. There are new 200 people there. The best
claim is the Cumberland reef; 10 feet through, which
has been averaging 2ioz. The late Sub-Inspector
Dyas, murdered by niggers the other day, had hia life
insured for £5OO. A boy named Murray was at-
tacked np a tree, near Ravenswood, by a large
iguana, and fell down, breaking his right arm. “ A
Teacher” informs us that up to March Bth the
country teachers under the Council of Edu-
tion had not" received their January salary.
The Mayor of a certain North Queensland seaboard
town employs aboriginal blackfellows to wait at his
table, while the Mayoress has two very handsome gins
as lady’s maids.-—The Queanbetan Age is for the
most part set np by lady compositors, daughters of the
worthy proprietor, Mr. Gale. Mr. Parker, of Stan-
cher, has sold a sixth share in the Gem Tin-Mining
Company tor the sum of £B5O. Mr. Parker starts for
Melbourne, and Stannifer loses a good man. L. C.
Shields, of Gympie, aged 19, has been drowned at
Tewantin through the upsetting of a boat. The
Rockhampton brewery re-commences operations under
a new proprietary. A whisky still in full working
order has been seized at Nirranda, near Warrnambool,
Vie. Two men have been arrested on suspicion.
A man said to be 108 years of age is living at Jericho,
Tasmania. On the occasion of the removal of Mr. G.
E. Webb, Government surveyor, from Port Macquarie
to Dublo, he was entertained by his friends at a most
enjoyable ball at M’Donoagh’a Royal Hotel, Port
Macquarie. “Dr.” Lee, a Chinese quack, has been
sentenced, at Wagga, to 12 months’ imprisonment in
Darlinghnrst for obtaining £3 11s. 6d. from a country-
man of his at Adolong by means of a valueless cheque.
The latest phase of the newspaper controversy with
regard to the “bowing” question is that the editor
of the Brisbane Observer challenges his brother of
the Toowoomba Chronicle to a bowing match for ten
gallons of Helidon Spa Water. Bow wow!
Two troopers and two black trackers from Blackall had
much trouble with a notorious aboriginal thief. The
mtttr threw tomahawks and nulla nullas very freely,
°ut ono of the troopers badly, and knocked hia revolver
°nt of iiis hand. Ultimately the'darkey gave in. Ha
shot through the breast during the row, and only
hved an, hour afterwards. Mr. J. M. O’Byrne, late
Koprietor of the Port Douglas Gazbttu, is bringing a
libel action against the Cooktown Courier. The
Tasmania, the first steamer employed in the Daintree
cedar trade, has been chartered by Freshney and Ce. for
Melbourne. Mr. H. Williams, of Ravenswood (N.Q.),
has died suddenly, the local doctor asserts, of strych-
nine poisoning. The stomach of the deceased has been
forwarded to the Government analyst, at Brisbane.
A very old man named Donald Cameron wandered away
from one of the men’s huts on Bowen Downs station,
while in delirium tremens. He was followed up by black
trackers, and his body found on the third day. He had
apparently been dead 48 hours. Francis Shepherd, a
yonug “ swell,” convicted at the Auckland (N.Z.) Police
Court of stealing various articles from the pockets of
members of the Auckland Rowing Club, has been sen-
tenced to 18 weeks’ gaol. An angler in the Hopkins
River (Vic.) hooked an octopus large enough to be a
terror to bathers. A man at Terang (Vic ), 67 years
old, lost his first tooth the other day, and has another
tooth coming in its place. At least, so says the local
paper. Some invalid fish, in a N.Z. aquarium, sick
nigh unto death, were swimming about lively in a few
minutes, by the simple administration of a few drops of
genuine old Scotch whisky. Mulligan’s new pros-
pecting party consists of W. B. Stenhouse, J. Moran,
J. Gills, and the leader. It is their intention to
prospect for gold in country passed over in a former
trip without due trial. In reply to a question from
the P.M., a Brisbane larrikin said that all he had to
levy upon, for the amount of a flue, “ was his mother.”
lt is said that the Spiritualists of Auckland have
discovered a healing medium in that town, whose
powers it is hoped will equal those of Mr. Milner
Stephen At the N.Z. Volunteers’ annual contest.
Painter won the Champion Belt, and Armstrong the
Carbine Champion Belt. The New Zealand Fire
Companies are losing an immense amount of money.
Two machines on the Palmer are hung np; one for
want of fuel, and the other for want of carters to cart
stone. Mr. C. Halpin leads a prospecting party in
the far North. 250 tons tin ore have been sent from
the Wild River to Sydney in six months. A very
rich tin lode has been found on the Walsh Elver.
An eccentric lady has been lecturing at Grafton on the
identity of the British with the “Lost Tribes of Israel.”
The Mayor of Grafton and one of the local papers—the
Argus— are “ believers.” Certain brethren and
sisters of the 1.0 Q T.,in a northern town, have passed
the bounds of “ Platonic affection.” The lawyers are
to have a say in the matter shortly. At Grafton, the
other day, a “ local preacher," wishing to impress on
his hearers the uncertainty of human life, began thus :
“ I knowed a girl on the Oxberry she was well like to-day,
and to-morrow she died." It is proposed to build a fine
hotel at Jeppoon, the watering place of Rockhampton
(Q.) The Rockhampton Corporation intend planting
trees in every street. The coffin which was made in
Auckland for the late Prince of Tonga has not yet
been paid for. The undertaker has made repeated
and unsuccessful attempts to obtain his money.
A Townsville paper tells how a lot of beche-de-mer
niggers were captured and conveyed to Cooktown while
under the influence of rum. At Cooktown, the other
day, a row over a Sabine marriage was quelled by the
transfer to the deserted one of another gin, valued at
twelve figs and two bottles of rum. The blacks at
Battle Camp, near Cooktown, have been palling down
the telegraph wires. A native-police camp is to be
formed at Granite Camp, near Cooktown. The body
of George Ryan (“ George the Gunner"), of Cooktown,
has been found in a lagoon near the Laura. Mr.
Jack, the Queensland Government Geologist, has found
indications of tin at Dry River, beyond Herberton,
The Herberton lodes are opening out richer than ever.
9ida re tuna, a Queensland weed, procurable at Mary-
borough, has, it is said, been found wonderfully effU
cacious in cases of lung disease. Mr. King’s silver
mine at Ravenswood (Q.) is turning out wonderfully
rich. There is a thickness of twenty feet at the
thickest part of the lode, containing plenty of galena.
It assays 160 ounces to the ton. Port Macquarie
ladies prefer “Lone Fisherman” to “Old Judge”
cigarettes. A movement is on foot for prospecting
the Kilkivan (Q.) country for gold At Kempsey
hardly a night passes without someone clipping, by way
of joke, the tail of someone else’s horse. Three police
horses are now doing duty without tails. 800 appli-
cations received by Commissioner for Railways for two
small tramway appointments. At Newcastle some
scoundrel has been maiming a Chinaman’s horse.
Mr. John Gallagher, of Molong, has had one of his legs
severely gored by a bull. At Winton, Aramac, pick-
and-shovel men are being paid £2 per week and rations.
At Queanbeyan, the other day, a tailor accosted a
local clergyman, and asked him to have a drink.
Strange to say, the rev. gentleman passed on, without
noticing bis would-be host, who thereupon called him
" a thing of a parson.” Trouble ensued—at the Police
Court. The Brisbane Telegraph Newspaper Co.
have purchased, for £Bl5O, a site for new offices imme-
diately opposite the Brisbane Town Hall. Mr. John
Monahan, of Blackall, has been arrested near Rock-
hampton on a charge of having fradulently received the
property of an insolvent. The other day a horse ran
into Myers’ china warehouse, Brisbane, and smashed a
great deal of crockery. Mr. Arthur O’Connor died
very suddenly at Emerald on the 24th February.
Wilcannia. has now another medical man. Dr.
M'Gowan having settled there. By the (ailing
of a case, Mr. O. L. Fisher, of the Australian
Stores, Cooma, has had his leg badly broken.
Best beef is advertised at the Hodgkinson at 2d. per
lb. While a man and boy were crossing the Annan
River, near Cooktown, they were attacked by a large
alligator, which on being disconcerted by the “ winged
terror” of the horses, rushed at the dogs. They,
however, were too quick for him. A new tenor, who
apparently has a knife-grinding machine in his throat,
has appeared at one of the city churches. At Ade-
long it is fashionable to take kangaroo dogs into
church. At a concert recently given by the Mur-
rurundi Choral Society, Mr. C. H. Lay “ took " as the
‘‘Dutch Immigrant." Several Armidale residents
have been greatly annoyed of late by receiving vile
anonymous letters. The police have the matter in hand.
The other day a miniature coffin, elaborately furnished,
was suspended from the gable of the Herald office,
Temora. Above the office door was placed the following
epitaph:—“ Sacred to tbe memory of poor Mousey,
who died an unnatural death on March 9th, 1881. R.I.
P.” The emblem of death was removed by the police,
and taken to the station. The editor of the Herald,
Mr. Bailey, is very popular at Temora. Winter is
setting in at Hobart. Blazing fires are the order of the
day. In South Australia one person out of every
1200 is incarcerated in Innatic asylums. Fatal effects
of Skiffington’s Sixpenny Skiter. Gympie has a
parson who does not belong to the early closing asso •
elation. He gives 1 hour and 40 minutes solid religion
for a voluntary contribution. 131 tons of stone from
the Golden Grown, Gympie, yielded 21400 z 14dwt. 13gr.
assayed gold. Dividend, 7s. per share on 30,000 shares
in the company.—-The fortnight’s crushing of 402 tons
from the North Qlanmire claim, Gympie, yielded 1290
ozs. Dividend, 2s. Bd. per share on 2,800 shares. 37
tons Lady Mary, 1247 oz. The wooden-block roadway
experiment is being tried at the corner of Collins and
Swanston-strets, Melbourne. Mr. Julius Caro, of
Dubbo, is erecting an •* Alpha” gas-machine with a
view of lighting his premises. A large waggon con-
taining about 30 miners and their swags started from
Wilcannia the other day for Mount Poole. One digger,
not finding room in the waggon rode on horseback ; but
in the course of the journey, a few miles outside the
town, he lost sight of the waggon, missed his way, and
had to return, minus his swag and ‘‘ tucker." To con-
sole himself under this loss he took rather more liquor
than was good for him, and got locked up in consequence.
Cowell v. M'Vean, to recover £lO,OOO on promis-
sory notes, in reference to certain payments for a sheep
station, commenced in the Melbourne Supreme Court.
Smith’s general store, at flay, burnt; damage
£5OOO. John Doyle, teacher Jennana public school,
near Marolan, fined 20s. and costs for excessive punish-
meat of a pupil. Some difference of opinion existed
among the magistrates. Hon. W. J. Clarke con-
sented to present the Melbourne Regatta prizes. The
“fiz” cost him over £5l. Cullen, the jockey, has
been arrested on a charge of having stolen a gold watch
and chain, two diamond rings, &0., valued in all at £l5O,
from Mr. A. Smith.
Improvement at Summer Hill.
There is no doubt that Summer Hill may be classed as
among the prettiest of our suburbs, aud every day the
beauties of its villa aud other architecture are manifest-
ing themselves. It presents unequalled building sites, in
respect of views and healthful situations, a fact which,
no doubt, explains the rapid manner in which every
available spot almost has already been seized upon fora
residence. With regard to the accommodation offered
the general public, Mr. H. J. Phillips is foremost with
his Summer Hill Family Hotel, situate a few yards
from the Station. This is one of the prettiest hotels to
be found in the suburbs, aud having been erected on
plans approve*! by the owner, is suitably and faithfully
built throughout. It is three storeys high, and has two
spacious balconies, from which a splendid view is
obtainable. The rooms are large, well ventilated, and so
arranged, as to secure for families or visitors the
greatest privacy; the success herein may be estimated
from the fact that several law students and
surveyors, and others desirous of a quiet and convenient
place to pursue their studies, have been staying here
for some time. The trains run at frequent intervals,
and the situation of thq house is therefore most con-
▼enient. In point of fact, the hotel may be said to be
mainly devoted to the purpose last indicated, and is
quite a new feature in hotel management as far as this
colony at least is concerned. The public portion of the
hotel is conducted in first-class style. The bar is
spacious, well-light ed, and cheerful. The dining rooms
are large and suitably furnished, and the billiard room
is equal to any in the city. The public character of
this hotel here ceases, the first and second floors being
conducted and managed according to the express
direction of the proprietor, upon the principle of a
private residence. The first floor is devoted to spacious
sitting and drawing rooms, among the many appoint-
ments to embellish which, the proprietor has not
omitted a piano to tempt the enjoyments of quiet
evenings at home. The second floor contains the
sleeping apartments, which are large, and have been
furnished with every inducement to comfort, in Farmer
and Company’s best style. Although Mr. Phillips has
supplied what was long felt to be a want in this delight-
ful suburb, namely, a comfortable residence within
convenient reach of the city for those who require a
quiet and healthful retreat after the business of the
day. In addition, the difficulties in respect of water,
with which suburban residents have so often to con-
tend, haye been here in a irreat measure overcome by
a tank, containing 30.000 gallons, from which
the tanks are supplied. A point is made of con-
ducting the notel on the highest principles, and the
wines, spirits, &c., are of the best; tbe table likewise
being furnished in first-class style. It is satisfactory
to note that the enterprise of the proprietor has been
duly recognized.
H. J. PHILLIPS’ SUMMER HILL HOTEL, RAILWAY STATION, SUMMER HILL.


BRIEF MENTION.
Big theatrical slander case initiated.
What Pastor Allen’s hell wants —An H.
No more licences for another twelve months.
Kowalski says the Herald critic is no gentle-
man.
Negotiations are pending for the sale of a
certain daily newspaper.
Of two things the public are tired —The tram’s
delay and Timothy Fogarty’s letters.
It is only when we have balloon ascents that we
can tell the real character of the S3'dney gas.
A clever man in the country has discovered
that Bulletin anagrammatised is Libel Nut.
The reporters say they’re glad that Mr. Melville
has, in his recent speeches, adopted a sepulchral tone.
A policeman is urgently required for special
duty at the corner of King and Elizaheth-streets, where
the tram crosses.
“ Balmain ” wants to know whether the person
swept by the late rains into the sewer can be said to
have committed sewer-side ?
The Brisbane Evening Classic, in a police
court report, tells people that “ Jakobsenand Hansen
rushed upon him in a brutal manner hut was prevented
by others.”
A violin class has lately been established at
Maryborough (Q.) Since this, several well-known
residents have signified that they have no longer any
wish to live.
The other day, at Rockhampton, Mr. R. R. Jones,
solicitor, while asking hail for a man charged with arson,
remarked that the local gaol “ wasn’t fit for respectable
persons to live in.”
“ Smith’s Shilling Guide to God and Glory ”
is the latest “religious” work. What is the lowest
depth of bumptious blasphemy that traders in religion
will eventually reach ?
The other day, while Angelina strolled with
Edwin along the shady hanks of the Macquarie, she
laid down her fashionable bird-bedecked hat. This was
the opportunity for a hungry iguana, from whose mouth
there now hang blue ribbons of welcome for his country-
man, Laycock.
A correspondent writes to ask if the Cumber-
land Times is edited by the hangman. Now this is
rather a straight question, and a straight answer is
naturally expected. So far as we can tell, it is not.
Possibly, however, our correspondent has been deceived
by appearances.
The Vespernal Syntax says that Mr. Huen-
erhein’s new pianoforte composition is “ melodically ”
beautiful. But we’ve often felt “melodic” ourselves.
When a man’s “ melodic,” he can’t read print—for the
letters run into each other—unless he puts a finger on
one eye. Rum, isn’t it ?
The Morning Rum of the 10th instant informs
its limited circle of readers that “a Jew "has been
charged, &c., at Melbourne. Now how nice it would
sound were a paper to say, “ Thomas Brown, a member
of the Church of England,” or “Patrick Murphy, a
Roman Catholic,” was brought up, &c.
A curious freak of nature is to be seen near
Lady Macquarie’s Chair. On a projecting sandstone
rock there is impressed what appears to be the shadow
of a man. It is said that this is the reflection of a well-
known civil servant, who for years past has fished off
that rock on every Saturday afternoon, Sunday, and
public or Government holiday, without catching any-
thing more valuable than a rock-cod or a cold.
The schoolmaster is abroad So are Mavor and
Lindley Murray—at least, in the Lunch Wrap oflice.
Some Hickstraordinary feats of orthography were dis-
played in the Sixpenny Groan last Saturday. En void ;
In some dull doggerel on The Bulletin, we read “cans’t”
for “ canst,” “aye" for “ay,” and “Nemisis” for
“ Nemesis." However, as we’re probably the only
persons who read the Groan, we suppose it “ don’t
make no difference."
Scene. —A private house in a border town.
Dramatis persona; : Parson, lady, gentleman. Parson to
lady: “Wilt thou have this man to be thy wedded
husband ?” Lady : “ Yes, I will." Parson to gentle-
man : “ Wilt thou have this woman to be thy wedded
wife?" Gentleman: “Well, sir, you see—l hardly
think it’s good enough just now. I’ll think about it
when the other one dies.” Trouble. Curtain. [The
“ gentleman” was already married. Fact.]
The saying, supposed to be the oracular utter-
ance of a great Unpaid, “ You are not guilty, but don’t
do it again,” was exemplified at Parramatta the other
day. Two small boys—very small boys—were charged
with stealing £2O from a bag, inasmuch as they found
the hag. The case fell through, the boys were dis-
charged, and the sapient J.P. read them a lecture on
the evils of stealing bags of money “not their pro-
perty.” Could a boy steal his own property ?
Two old Crimeans met at Gorman’s corner, at
Inverell, on the Show day. They, of course, fought
their battle o’er again, and ended with a quiet glass. A
Good Templar stepped in, and called for ginger-beer.
" Well, Bill," observed one of the veterans, “ how many
teetotals had we in the Crimea ?” Bill looked puzzled,
and after a few minutes’ cogitation, came to the con-
clusion that he never met one, and that if there were
any they must have been on the Russian side.
At a Mayoral banquet the other day, “ deep
down in the sunny South,” the right worshipful host
managed to get together a very mixed lot. The hand-
some and accomplished wife of an eminent Q.C. was
“ranged up alongside” the spouse of her poulterer, on
whose head, by the way, rested the blood of the turkey
discussed on the occasion. The wife of a leading news-
paper man rubbed noses, too, with her vegetable pur-
veyor, and the cordonnier’s lady but no more at
present.
Milner Stephen told the Psychological Society,
the other night, that at a recent spiritualistic seance he
saw a wet boulder with insects attached come down on
to a table, notwithstanding that all doors and windows
were closed at the time. Now Milner, like George
Washington, always speaks the truth ; but we’ll wager
that if the spirits, instead of hitting a table, which
can’t feel, will just throw a boulder, with or without
insects, straight at the head of M’Elhone or Buchanan,
or knock His Honor the Chief Justice on the wig dur-
ing the hearing of a libel case, they (the spirits) will in
less than seven days be marched along between two
policemen, towards Darlinghurst. Now, Milner, here’s
a chance for you.
We have received the first number of the
Farmer and Grazier’s Gazette, a journal published
at Romsey. The editor makes an apology for " short-
comings ’’ on the ground that the Lynch Family of
Bellringers arrived just as he was going to press, and a
jubilation was the result. Certainly the F. and G.
Gazette has made its appearance a little pale as to
colour, and slightly shaky as to its Latin “for-
mulas.” These, however, are small matters,
and we trust the Romsey paper will succeed. One
piece of advice we give the editor: Never read or even
exchange with the Express, the Protestant Standard,
the Presbyterian, or any other of the sporting papers.
A perusal of them p’ays havoc with one’s style—and
one’s morals.
The Inverell Times tries to get off a learned
par. about a young man of that town who has just
been admitted as a member of the Pharmaceutical
Society. The Times says the young man aforesaid is
now qualified “to roll and gild pills of different de-
scriptions from the size of small shot to that of sneider
bullets and to compound mixtures and electuaries
diuretic, sporifle, laxative, sodarifie, &c. We congratu-
late Mr. Thompson on his promotion, as he is a steady,
intelligent, and deserving young man.” Now, no
doubt the latter assertion is quite true, though it must
be understood that we don’t endorse it merely on the
authority of the Inverell Times. But we want to
kaow why, in a par. about a deserving young man, or
even in one about the worst criminal, any reference
should be made to a “ sodarifie” mixture. Whatinthe
name of thunder does “ sodarifie" mean P Again,
what is a “sneider” bullet? However, we suppose
that the editor was at the time thinking not of spell-
ing books but of “ sodah” and—but everyone knows
the rest.
Emperor of Russia assassinated. Thank Heaven
we have his subscription for two years in advance.
How many drapers have failed in Newcastle
during the last ten years ?—or, rather, as a matter of
easier calculation, how many have not failed ?
The Lusitania’s commander has been let in for
damages, £5OO. Mrs. Burrell was the cause of it. There
are the costs, besides; so the expenses will be, in a
manner, double-Burrelled.
It may not be generally known that the Sydney
Gas Company open all their meetings with prayer.
This, it is to be presumed, is done to ensure a good
flame in the sweet by-and-bye.
A wealthy Protestant lady, residing near Camp-
belltown, has presented to the Jesuits’ College a
valuable collection of stuffed birds. She says her way
is being paved to Heaven.
A Bulletin man was going in to an inquest
the other day, when a gentleman accosted him and
said, “ You belong to the Press, I believe. Are you on
the staff of the Penny Bum ?” “Do I look hungry ?”
was the reply.
The Liverpool correspondent ot the London
Daily Telegraph wires that a gentleman eating
sausages found a human finger in one. On inquiry, it
turned out that the machine boy had cut his finger off,
and it had been put on one side, and then carelessly
mixed with the sausage-meat. Beautiful!
55The WaggaWagga Advertiser boasts a Latin
scholar on its staff. Speaking of the misuse of Duty
for Postage stamps, he alludes to the feelings of the
senders, when their letters are returned, in the follow-
ing touching way—“ Hinc many lachrymae,"—just so—
also “ Quis is multiis very cativeo,” <fcc. <fec.
The Albnry Municipal Debating and Eowing
Society discussed, last week, the following question :
Is the borough to be or not to be a pig-stye ? We pre-
sume that the members are all Bathurst residents.
Anyhow, we’ve never before heard of white-men arguing
whether or not they themselves were hogs.
“Says theINVERELL Grammar : “ We need not
apologise to our readers for only publishing seven
columns to-day, when we mention that we gave our
staff two half-holidays for the Show. As they are
rather numerous we thought it our duty to allow them
to go, thereby contributing to swell the receipts at the
gate.”
The Evening Grammar, like the Herald, is
sweet on the late Emperor of Russia. This profound
eventful genius remarks; “ The moral and social revo-
lutions which he accomplished were in some respects
stupendous, and might well entitle him to a place among
the greatest benefactors of mankind." This is rather
too thin, dear boy. Read Wallace’s “ Russia,” or spell
through Valentine Baker’s book, before you deliver
yourself of still-born ex-parte criticisms on deceased
European potentates.
There’s something wrong with the Balranald
Hospital. The other day the wardsman accidentally
poisoned himself by taking an overdose of morphia.
His wife, the following day, was thrown out of a buggy
and severely hurt. This has caused a panic in the dis-
trict, and the Committee can’t get another staff. The
Secretary has, during the last few days, been whooping
all over the country for a wardsman, but his proposals
are invariably declined. Even a Chinaman, to whom
the post was offered, replied, “No likee! No more
fear! ” It’s a sad case.
Sirenree is sticking to Cudal which adores
him. That city has already in course of erection a
new public school and a school of Arts; it has just
formed a jockey club (the C. J.C )of its own; its wheat
is converted into flour in a local steam-driven mill; it
makes its own lemonade; it possesses two churches
and one bank; it is agitating for a Court house; and
it has got a church bell. If it goes on like this it will
soon require a poor house and a gaol; and if the great
man still continues kind, who knows that at no distant
date there may not corruscate in the township a sewer ?
Well done! Honi sewer qui mal y pease.
Tumut church “ gif a bignig” lately, and the
sun shone bright and the birds carolled gaily as one of
Tumut's pious-minded but occasionally festive tailors
packed his sisters, &c., &c., and a few of another fel-
low’s also into a borrowed buggy, and tooled the team
as only a tailor can. Arrived at the seat of war the
company had a good time of it, but as they were
crossing the Tumut River on their return the trusty
steed stopped short, apparently never to go any more,
in the deepest part of the stream. It occurred to our
gallant tailor’s mind that if he rapped the horse with
the whip he might either back or lie down; and as some
one would probably have got splashed in either case he
immediately scrambled down. With that native
ingenuity peculiar to Scotchmen in general, and Scotch
tailors in particular, he unhitched his steed, and
buckling on to the vehicle himself pulled the crew to
terra firma. When he got home that night he was a
wetter but very much wiser man.
The Darlington and Glebe cricketers are quar-
relling over their “ cups.” Shouldn’t it be mugs ?
Mr. Wallace, M.L.C., thinks that the Victorian
Assembly would be improved by the presence of lady
members. Of course Mr. W. can't be a married man.
It is authoritatively stated that the two Pitt-
street and George-street booksellers who kept open on
the 10th (day of the picnic) sold two packages of
envelopes between them.
The recently-appointed editor of one of the Rock-
hampton papers calls everyone “ Esquire.” He’s a new
chum, and evidently has been commissioned by Heaven
to improve the manners of the North.
Those facetious people, the commercial travel-
lers, have a new joke. One of their number, a by no
means dapper man, is so little that his eldest son’s
clothes, they say, are being cut down to fit him.
A leading undertaker writes, assuring ns that
he never allows any of his men to appropriate the gold
tooth-plates of the defunct as perqs. He always, he
says, personally witnesses the operation of screwing
down his clients.
A well-known manufacturer in this city, who is
a staunch supporter of the “ League for the Protection
of Native Industries,” gets his labels printed in
London. Said labels bear the following legend:—
“ Prize medals awarded for purity and excellence
of quality, Sidney.” Facts are stubborn things.
John Lee King has the following advertisement
in one of the daily papers:—“Every one I owe accounts
to during the last 28 years send in" for payment before
15th of this month.” If we could only get our poli-
ticians to follow suit, all old residents of the colony
would be independent at once.
A Bourke storekeeper saw in a Sydney publi-
cation what he considered to be an infamous libel
against himself. He left at once for Sydney to get big
damages from the proprietor, but was astonished upon
arrival to learn that the publication had been seized,
and the late owner on his way to. San Francisco. Yah!
The cartoon in last week’s number of Mel-
bourne Punch is entitled “ Cause and Effect,” and
represents the recent disastrous torpedo explosion in
Hobson’s Bay. Remarks Punch, “ A Liberal Govern-
ment disbanded the torpedo corps to save expense.
Behold the result! and calculate the gain to the
country."
A contemporary, in alluding to the ridiculously
fulsome adulation which has been lavished on Ketten,
asks“ What ever will the critics do when a better
man than Ketten comes here ? Why, they wont have
any compliments left.” Well, we can’t answer for them
all, but we know what Sappho’s little game will be.
She will have a dive into Carlyle, dig deep into Ruskin,
take a taste of Haweis, and refresh her memory with
some “ old uns ” from the London Times. Then her
unfortunate “ readers ’’ will have a field day.
A Eiverina young man the other day took his
affianced out for a drive. When about three miles from
town the horse jibbed, and refused to move either one
way or the other. The young man got out and led
Bucephalus a long way, whilst the lady used the whip.
However, the horse at last stuck up altogether, where-
upon he was taken out of the shafts, into which the
young man got and proceeded to pull the buggy towards
home. When he got to the bridge he claimed exemp-
tion from toll, but the toll-keeper said that for every
“ horse or ass ” sixpence had to be paid.
Curious, isn’t it, how unheeding those at the
head of affairs are, of what goes on in the outside
world, until such matters are officially brought under
their notice in the ’Ouse ? For instance, there’s
Dimond’s case, which has been the talk of the town for
months past until the very name “ stunk in the
nostrils” of the public. Yet the Ministry take no steps
in the matter until they hear the rattle of the drum-
ecclesiastic. Truly there are “ wheels within wheels.”
More than little Toddles are anxious to see “ how the
wheels go round.” Constitutional government in these
Colonies is indeed a peculiar institution.
In a certain (foreign) colony is an official occu-
pying a position similar to that of one our Police
Magistrates. While acting in this capacity the indivi-
dual referred to has been a “trader” of the worst
description. For instance, the residents of his district
were, before his appointment, sober people; now, how-
ever, the vilest intoxicants have, through his instru-
mentality, been introduced, and the whole population
demoralized. Spirits and other articles supplied for
medical purposes have been seized and sold in the
market of an adjoining colony ; and while, as instructed
by his Government, generally enforcing the law against
the sale of the valuable timber and plants, &0., to be
to be found in his district, he has himself been carrying
on trade in such commodities sub rosa. Shocking im-
morality is said to accompany all this rascally conduct.
It is well that this individual is not an official in the
colonial service; for then most assuredly would some
colonial Premier run him straight out of his position.
The iJedfern Times has a sermon by Spurgeon,
of which the following is a passage:—“ I know that
people labour under the idea that going to church and
chapel, taking the sacrament, and doing certain good
deeds that pertain to a respectable profession of
religion, are the way to heaven. It is, however, un-
mistakeahly the way to hell.” If the Eedfern Times
has a large circulation, this par. is likely to cause a
certain amount of uneasiness in Eedfern, and there will
doubtless be a falling off in the attendance at the
various chapels. Of course, the people can stop
“going to church,” “taking the sacrament,” and
“ doing good deeds but even then they will be in a
state of chaos, for then they will want to know the way
to go to heaven. Mr. Spurgeon, however, doesn’t tell
them that.
He was a stont city man and had taken his seat
in a waggonette which had room for only six inside.
Presently a “fat old party” with vinous breath, who
looked like a washerwoman, came along and insisted on
the city man making room for herself and bundle. He
grumbled faintly, whereupon she began to “ slang
him,” remarking that as he wore a “fantail banger,”
a big watch chain, and a bell-topper, and no doubt con-
sidered himself a fine gentleman, he ought to be proud
to make room for a lady. City man grumbled again,
and once more she abused him. At last, finding that
he had crossed swords with a veritable Biddy Moriarty,
he desperately said, in a tone which indicated that he
had had more than enough, “ Oh well, I suppose lam a
brute!” “Well, indeed,” replied she, “if you aren’t
one your looks tells lies.”
On the day of big hailstones, Dave Gregory,
when he saw the young “ice-bergs” coming down,
thought he’d have a joke at the expense of some of the
occupants of the pavilion. So he got a 51b. lump of ice
from the ice-chest, and tossed it into the air so that it
fell just in front of a little group who were at the
moment deeply interested in the ice question. A well-
known and portly resident of Manly, famed for his love
of practical jokes, saw what he thought to be the “ big
hailstone” drop, and, utterly regardless of the risk he
incurred of having his skull stove in, ran forward,
seized the “boomer,” and carried it into the pavilion.
“ Did you ever see anything like it ? ” he cried—“ five
pounds, if it’s an ounce ! It's the biggest hailstone that
ever fell.” “ What are you going to do with it ?” asked
Dave. “Oh, I’ll take it to the Museum,” replied
George, absent-mindedly.
“ Homebush,” once the scene of many a hard-
fought race, when such celebrities as Jorrocks, Dora,
Sampson, and others graced its turf, is now not only
famous for its elaborate cattle-yards and handsome
women, for a hard old Yankee gentleman has taken up
his quarters there. He turns out in what he calls an
“ insurance-cart,” a vehicle with very high wheels and
very long shafts—a sort of cross between an American
sulky and a British " pill-box ’’ —and is the envy of aU
the girls on the road. “ Old Croppy," quite a relic of a
bygone age, and known in almost every town in Victoria
and New South Wales, has found his way into “the
stable,” and we have it from good authority that with a
4 lb. weight on each foot he trotted a mile so fast on
Sunday morning last that it broke the watch, and thus
a record of the best mile in the colonies has been lost
for ever. There is another “ Darkun ” about, but more
of him anon.
A correspondent, who signs himself ‘ ‘ A Martyr, ’ ’
reports that he is one of seven healthy, inoffensive
boarders at a certain lodging-house this side of ;the
equator, and in this house there is a small boy, the
parents of whom insist on his being worshipped as a
sort of heathen god. This the boarders are willing to
do once a day; but when it comes to breakfast, dinner,
and tea, they feel that it really is possible to have too
much of a good thing. They are all ready to make
affidavits that the said baby boy is the finest child in the
world, but they want the concern to stop right there at
affidavits. Baby’s parents will therefore please accept
this solemn warning. [Personally we think that every-
one who is the lawful owner of a thumping baby has a
perfect right to consider it as the finest child ever seen
since the days of Herod; and even if they had a
thousand, we would simply sav to “ A Martyr” and his
friends “go thou and do likewise.— Ed. B.j
A little while ago, Sir Arthur Gordon tele-
graphed from New Zealand for H.M.S. “Cormorant”
to proceed to Samoa, and arrest one Mr. Hunt, who
was reported to have gone there in disobedience of an
order of the High Commissioner. The “ Cormorant"
called at Levuka to procure a warrant from the
Judicial Commissioner for Hunt’s arrest and a band
of volunteers to effect the capture, as the Commodore
would not allow his officers to be converted into
Sheriff’s deputies and bum-bailiffs. However, as it
was found that Hunt was all the time quietly domiciled
at Levuka, the “Cormorant" turned back. We are
now told that, a few days after her departure. Hunt
left Fiji in a ketch, bound for “ Guam ”; but as was
known at Levuka, the captain, who is not an English
subject, was taking Hunt to Samoa. Queries : (1) Will
another ship of war be sent to hunt Hunt; and (2) what
will be the next act of the Western Pacific farce i 1
She was young and beautiful; he was old and
ugly. He took her hand and squeezed it tenderly, and
then she put out her tongue at him. Then he laid his
head gently on her breast. She was eighteen, and he
was seventy, but still it was an affection of the heart.
O. yes, it was. Her heart was affected, and he was a
doctor trying to see how far the mischief had gone.
Who, when my prayers were poorly said.
Would spank me till I was nearly dead.
And put me in my little bed—
My Grandma.
Who, when my little coat had split.
Would look at me with eyebrows knit.
And say, “ You wretch, git up and git! ”
My Grandma.
Ouida’s books are to be removed from the Scotch
libraries, and in their places, no doubt, people will find
works on honest banking, etc. And yet Ouida is a
philosopher. Here is a line or two from her pen
“ When you ore content, it were folly to seek a change.”
Again : “ Things pulseless and passionless endure, but
human life passes away as swiftly as a song dies from
off the air—as quickly succeeded, and as quickly
forgot.” Again; “ First wives are always so superior-
excellent that, if a man loseone, he is generally as
fearful of hazarding a second as a trout of biting
twice.”
“The Vagabond” and Louise Michel.
[Vide “VAG'S” LETTER TO S. M. HERALD.]
Mam’selle, je ne parlais not much Frangais,
Though I have a mighty soul ;
But you’ll comprenny me, I fancy.
Beau coup, hiang, upon the whole.
Entre vous et moi, there’s sympathie, chere ;
Oui, Louise— that will be found!
Vous jtes Louise Michel, see, chere,
Je suis, moi, —Le Vagabond !
Courage! I'll desert you, jamais!
“ Petr ole use,” they called you, dear j
No, chere amie, jamais dammee!
Need you fear while I am here!
J’ai voyagi, and I’ve hattu
From Bankok to B’long-sur-mer ;
And Timbuctoo I’ve been at too—
Ah,Je suis brave! — whoop!—Vive la guerre !
Pour vous, angelic Louise Michel,
This pays ingrate I would flee;
Oui, once more I’d come from out my shell,
And join thee, cherie, at Paree.
A general j’etais dans la Commune —
Ah, tonnerre! zut!—l had no fear!
Un soldat I was out of common,
Le Mro gallant of the war.
Quand je thirsted a le battle.
From thy hand, Louise Michel, dear,
'Midst the mitrailleuse’s rattle,
J’ai hu petroleum mixed with beer.
Adieu, cherie ; je suis appele —
Ah, comme mon poor cceur does throb I
Lynch wants an article—it comes happily—
In it there’s two-and-forty bob.
A Sydney Belle.— See “Social.”


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Moms.
Races at Maude on 24th May.
Kenforth’s height was 5 feet 7* inches.
Races at Long Flat, Braidwood, March .17.
Regatta at Lake Macquarie on Easter Monday.
R. Elliott captained the Newcastle Twenty-two.
Mr. Strange has retired from the eight-oar crew.
An Australian colt, Sir Garnet, won the Dunedin
Maiden Plate.
Newcastle greeting to the Australian Eleven—
Take a rest."
The acceptances for the Orange handicaps are
very satisfactory.
Three imported race-horses have arrived by the
steamer Sikh (sick).
The eight-oar crew went away from the steamer
on Saturday afternoon.
A descendant of Dick Green made his dihut at
the Instruction regatta.
The Hon. Mr. Driver has purchased Sir Modred,
the Dunedin Cup winner.
The Glebe Strathmore C.C. defeated the Austra-
lian C.C. last Saturday by 12 runs.
The Young Oxford C. C. beat the Gramandasat
Petersham on Saturday last by 30 runs.
An immense amount of money was put through
the totalisator at the Dunedin meeting.
The Auckland Racing Club hold their Autumn
Meeting on Easter Monday and Tuesday.
The Melbourne Club did not gain a single vic-
tory, either at the Geelong or Melbourne Regattas.
The disputed borough cup match, Glebe versus
Darlington, is to be played over again early in April.
The Our Boys C.C. were defeated by the 2nd
eleven of the Stanmore C.C. on Saturday last by 5 runs.
The clergymen of Auckland were strongly repre-
sented at the Australians’ cricket match in that town.
New Zealand bookmakers have been heavily
struck over the Auckland, Wellington, and Dunedin
Cups.
Splendid portraits of Larry Foley and John
Thompson appear in the New York Clipper of 29th
January.
Rush is the favourite for the sculling race at
Grafton on Thursday, though a close contest is
expected.
An old Newcastle waterman says that Hanlanis
“the cleverest rower ivvor I seed; he keeps goin’ after
he stops."
Twenty-one horses have been nominated for the
Namoi Handicap, and twenty-six for the Walgett
Handicap.
Satisfactory nominations have been received for
the big Canterbury (N.Z.) Handicap, to be run next
November.
The Rover C.C. beat an eleven of the Australian
C.C. at Moore Park on Saturday. Scores : 53 and 10
respectively.
The Canterbury (N Z.) Rowing Club beat the
Otago Club by two lengths in a two-and-a-half mile four-
oar gig race.
The Australian horse Maori (late Auckland) is
running very badly at the race meets in his new home
—Auckland, N.Z.
For the Tumut Turf Club Handicap there are
only 7 acceptances out of 20 entries. Rather rough on
the handicappers.
Dr. Carver and Mr. Scott were to shoot a match
at 100 pigeons each, at Hendon, on February 7, for £4OO
and the championship.
The Wellington C.C. defeated the Orient C.C.,
at Everleigh, on Saturday last, by 15 runs. Scores—
Wellington 66, Orient 51.
Lone Hand has lately run at various country
race meetings in the Auckland (N.Z.) province, but has
been unable to score a win.
The Clarendon C.C. beat an eleven of the Ivanhoe
club, at Moore Park, on Saturday, by 21 runs. Scores
—Clarendon 57, Ivanhoe 37.
The fastest time for the Wellington Cup was
done by Foul Play, in 1880, when he did the two miles
in 3 min. 37 J sec., carrying Bst. 41b.
Mr. C. H. Hannell, president of the Newcastle
Cricket Club, gave a silver-mounted bat to J. Bignell,
the highest scorer of the Twenty-two.
An eighteen mile walking match for the cham-
pionship of Auckland, N.Z., between Messrs. Brett and
Walsh, was won easily by the former.
The Maryborough (Q.) Rowing Club purchased
the fine gig with sliding seats exhibited at the Mel-
bourne Exhibition, and mode by Puller.
For the Carooar annual races fifteen are nomi-
nated for the Publicans’ Purse, seven for the Ladies’
Purse, and fifteen for the Carooar Town Plate.
The crew chosen to represent Victoria .in the
coming Intercolonial eight-oar race are expected to
arrive overland from Melbourne about March 30.
There were eight starters for a handicap race
which came off at Parmer’s Ground, Moore Park, on
Saturday. Q. Harper won by eight yards, after a good
pin.
The Australian-bred horse, Sir Garnet, won the
Derby Stakes at the Invercargill (N.Z.) meeting, and
Luna the Cup, beating Hilarious by a nose, Sylvanns
third.
A 24 hours’ go-as-you-please match between
Smith and Croft, of Wellington, N.Z., for £5O aside,
was won easily by the latter, who ceded 10 miles to
Smith.
Mr. James F. Hardy (care of Gordon and Gotch,
Brisbane) informs us that he has in training a youth
under 18 whom he is desirous of matching against
M'Laren.
The latest accounts from Trickett are that he
purposes leaving for America immediately in order to
have a boat Constructed on the same principle as
Hanlon's.
The Victorian Bowling Association have re-
solved that the return match with New South Wales be
played in Sydney either on Saturday, the 23rd or 30th
April next.
The Victorian Coursing Club have adopted a
resolution to fence in the swamp paddock at Suubury
at a cost of £l5lO, £9OO of which has already been
subscribed.
Rose of Sherwell, a mare by General Peel out of
Princess Georgia, was so seriously injured at a race
meeting in the province of Auckland, that she had to
be destroyed.
Arthur Gregory is getting into his old form
again. He played a fine innings against the Carltons on
Saturday, aud scored as quickly as Massie, who was his
fellow-batsmau.
A match at bowls was played between the N.Z.
towns Dunedin and Invercargill, and resulted in a vic-
tory for the former by 8 points. Scores—Dunedin, 52 •
Invercargill, 43.
The Auckland Obsebveb says that Mr.
Palmer, the Australian cricketer, offered to remain
permanently in Auckland if an appointment were
obtained for him.
Lady Emma has at last made her dihut in N.Z.
at the late Dunedin meeting. She did not score a win,
getting no closer than third place, although running in
two or three events.
In a supplementary match between the Austra-
lian Eleven and twelve of the Northern Team, six of the
former were disposed of for 56 runs, of which number
Jones made 19, not out.
Hanlan’s backers made .£12,000 on him in Eng-
[ land; and they didn’t have to go into training to do ft,
either. He did the handling of the oars, and they did
the Hanlan of the money.
The challenge issued by Albert White to row
against any man in New Zealand has been accepted by
P. Duncan, of Christchurch, and the match will come
off in about six weeks' time.
A raoe for .£2O takes place at Appin to-day
(Saturday), between George King, of Appin, and A.
Tidier, of Bulli. Both men have been in active train-
ing, and a good race is anticipated.
Mr. Walters did not start his Yattendon-
Peeress colt at the Dunedin meeting. It is probable
that the youngster will sport silk at the Canterbury
Autumn Meeting on Easter Monday.
A match was played at Moore Park, last Satur-
day, between elevens of Kugby C.C. and Victoria C.C.
The result was a victory for the Kugby team by 11 runs,
the scores being 55 and 44 respectively.
A foot-race has been arranged to take place at
Homebnsh next Saturday, at three o’clock, between
Aulezack and Stuttor for £5O a side, distance 125 yards.
A deposit of £25 has been already lodged.
Jack Harris, at one time a champion sprint
runner, is now one of the leading N.Z. bookmakers.
He travelled around the coloni. s years ago with Frank
Hewitt, and Bird, the famous mile runner.
A five-mile foot race for J>so aside and the
championship of Christchurch, (N Z.), took place lately
between W. S. Pagan and P. Wollerton, the former
winning easily by 100 yards, in 39m. ssecs.
A match was played on Moore Park on Saturday
between the Perseverance C C. and Esmond C.C. (late
Nonpareil), and resulted in a very easy victory for the
P.C.C. by 2 runs and 9 wickets to spare.
Sixteen members of the Advance Club, of
Singleton, tried conclusions with the Ironclads, of
Newcastle, last Saturday, for the Waddy Challenge Cup,
but were defeated by one innings and 95 runs.
A strange thing occurred at the Dunedin (N.Z.)
races. In the hurdle races on the first and second days,
the placed horses came past the post on each day in the
same order—Sailor Boy 1, Agent 2, and Milo 3.
Captain Bogardns and W. Tell Mitchell shot a
match at pigeons, sixty-five birds each, 30 yards rise
five ground traps, English rules, at Richmond, Va. t on
January 19. Mitchell killed 60. and Bogardns 57.
Anyone wishing to communicate with Laycock
on his arrival at Adelaide, will ensure the delivery to
him of their letters by addressing them to the care of
Mr. E. J. Rigaud, Adelaide Register Office, Adelaide.
At the termination of the events of the Hunter
River Amateur Tuff Club meeting on Saturday, a sweep
of 10s. each was arranged, and wai won by M Carthy’s
Fancy Boy, Caller Herring being second, and Fly
third.
A man who won a butter-dish at the Instruction
races has lost it again. He bought some bntter at a
William-street shop, and the cart-grease was so strong
that it took the dish from him. He says Heaven is his
home.
John Lillywhite, senior, brother of the late
James Lillywhite, the “ Nonpariel’’ bowler, and father
of the present James Lillywhite, of Sussex County
orieket fame, died at West Hampnet, England,
| recently. f
The sliding seat was first used in England in a
four-oared race between professionals representing the
, North and South of England. The idea is old, but the
[ Americans were first to utilise it in its present mecha-
I nical form.
Mr. Charles Beal has resigned his position as
secretary of the Carlton Cricket Club. He was one of
the founders of the club, and it is mainly owing to hia
energy and perseverance that it has gained the position
it now holds.
The match at Newcastle was a pecuniary success,
but the Australian Eleven did not astonish the North-
erners. There are even some sanguine people in Coal-
opolis who think that eleven aside would make the
chances even.
In the Hurdle Race at West Maitland on Satur-
day last, Priam fell over the first hurdle with C.
Osborne, but, forturately, neither horse nor rider was
hurt. In the Hack Race, Eoarty, the rider of Forrester,
received a nasty fall.
The New York Spirit of the Times says :
“ There is little probability that English scullers will
regain world-wide supremacy until the present genera-
tion are all dead, and their places filled by better and
more teachable men.”
The Victorian representatives in the Interco-
lonial Eight-Oar Race have been selected, and are as
follow Messrs. Upward (stroke). Brown, Tuckett,
Hopkins. W. D. Booth, J. Brown, Hodges, Irvine, and
Walter Bray (coxswain).
The Canterbury Jockey Club Handicap is the
largest money prize run'for in New Zealand—viz., 500
sovs., with a sweep of 20 sovs. each added—but the
Dunedin Cup of 500 sovs., with 10 sovs. each added,
excites the greatest interest.
The reason the walking match between Scott
and Edwards fell through at Dunedin was that the
Garrison Hall authorities would not allow Edwards to
walk in that building unless he paid them the sum of
£lB, due for rent on a former occasion.
The following were the non-acoeptances for the
Hunter River Tnrf Club Meeting :—The Shoots—Cameo,
Cremorne, Lady Glifden, Kingston. Tnrf Club Handi-
cap—Cameo, Lady Glifden, Fancy Boy, Twilight.
Ladies’ Mile—True Blue and Duller.
Hanlan and Ross some time ago issued a chal-
lenge to row any two men in the world for 2500d01.
j This has been accepted by M. F. Davis and J. A.
Kennedy, of Portland, Ma. They have sent lOOOdol. to
the Boston Herald for Ross and Hanlan to cover.
| The annual meeting of the Clarence Jockey Club
has been fixed for the 13th and 14th July. There are
ten events, the added money amounting to nearly £7OO.
The principal races are the Maiden Plate, £80; two
handicaps. £BO, and £200; and Derby of £lO each,
added to £lOO.
In a cricket match between the N.Z. provinces,
Otago v. Canterbury, the former got beaten in one in-
nings with 232 runs to spare. A Canterbury man named
Watson, a left-handed player, made the fine score of
175, caught out. The same player made a poor stand
against the Australians.
The committee of the New South Wales Coursing
Club have decided to postpone the closing of the nomi-
nation for the Bathurst Cup, the Plumpton Stakes, and
the Intercolonial Stakes until April 6. For the latter,
several nominations have already been received from
I Melbourne and Adelaide.
( It is reported that Spofforth, Bonnor, and
Murdoch intend to settle permanently in Melbourne
when the Australian Eleven is disbanded. This will be
a loss to New South Wiles cricket, and will be the
means of helping Victoria to put a few more wins to her
credit before the tide turns.
A feature of the lute Melbourne regatta was
the rowing of the Footscray men. Starting off at 53
strokes per minute, and timed when settled down to
their work at 49, they seat their boat along at a great
pace. Near the finish they were four or five lengths
to the good, and rowing at 46.
The match Australian Eleven against fifteen
! chosen from the Melbourne, East Melbourne and South
Melbourne clubs will take place on 18th, 19th and
21st March, on the Melbourne ground. Half the net
proceeds will be given to the three clubs represented
and the Australians take the other half.
The Intercolonial Eight-Oar crew rowed the
racing boat up the river on Saturday. The steamer
Nantilus was engaged to convey members of the N. S.
Wales Rowing Association and their friends part of the
way up the river, with an opportunity of seeing some of
the races at the regatta in Woolloomooloo Bay.
Pearce’s condition is fair, so much so that Rnsh
does not feel so sangnine of the result of the race,
which takes place to-day (Thursday) at Grafton.
Pearce is accompanied by Messenger. The result of the
skiff race between McDonald and McMahon, for £25, is
doubtfni.thongh McDonald is mostfancied. The Regatta
promises to be successful. The officers appointed are:
Mr. George Tooth, Umpire ; Mr. Fred. Morrow, Judge;
Mr. C. S. Mansfield, Starter. Mr. John See has
granted the Australian, steamer, as flagship.
Here is a good par. from a N. Z. society journal:
—The saddler who makes the bridles worn by a certain
horse ought to receive a gold medal. The leather
must indeed be tough, durable, and well seasoned."
This alludes to the way the horse is run, as he Is a
grand horse over sticks or a country when “ wanted."
Through the liberal support accorded to the
committee of the Woolloomooloo Bay Begatta, they
have awarded prizes to the various winners of more value
than specified in the programme. The very handsome
trophies were exhibited daring last week in the window
of J. H. Myers, tobacconist. King-street.
The bicycle contest in Christchurch, N.Z., was
an immense success, and largely attended. In the 10
mile race. Dalton, of Christchurch, took first prize; and
Morris, of Christchurch the second. The time was
39m. 2secs. Quirk, the English champion, from whom
so much was expected, was handicapped out of every-
thing.
An English sporting paper says : “It is under-
stood that when Sir Hercules retires from the Governor-
ship of the Cape, which will probably, under present
circumstances, prove a more difficult post than any he
has yet held, he intends settling either in Hew Zealand
or New South Wales, bnt which of the two has not yet
been decided."
The stakes won at the late V.R.C. Antnmn
Meeting amounted to a total of £BOl2. Mr. W. A. Long
received £1215, Mr. Whittingham £lf9s Mr. Branch
£9lO, Mr. Wilson £772, Mr. Loughlin £615, Mr. Mor-
rison £535, and Mr. Pile £565. The receipts at this
meeting were 25 per cent, better than those of any
previous meeting.
Following are the results of the Hunter River
Amateur Turf Club races, at West Maitland, on Satur-
day : —Hurdle Bace—Darby the Blast, 1; Barry, 2.
Shorts Handicap—Kanaka, 1; True Blue, 2; Darkle, 3.
Maiden Hack Bace—Ply, 1; Duffer, 2. Ladies’ Mile-
Satellite, I; Belief, 3; Kanaka, 3. Hack Bace—Navy
Eights, 1; Pickwick, 2.
The Goulbnrn Picnic races resulted as follows :
Picnic Bace : Calen 1, May thorn 2, Vampire 3; Ladies’
Purse: Prairie Flower 1, Pleetwing 2, The Thorn 3 •
Pony Bace: Lily 1, The Gift 2, Skylark 3; Tirrana
Cup : Dapto 1, Bipple 2, Wallaby 3; The Trot: Kathleen
Mavonrneen 1, Zephyr 2; Pony Bace: Myrtle 1, Alice
Hawthorne 2, Moss Bose 3.
The Eight-Oar Race will take place on the 9th
April. Two steamers, under the auspices of the Bowing
Association, will follow the race, one taking the Urn-
pire, and the other the members of the Press, the
remaining available space being for members and their
friends. There is a proposal to set apart space on board
one of the steamers for ladies.
Mr. G. B. Stewart has shipped, per P. and O.
Co.’s s.s. Bombay, for General Sir Donald Stewart, Bart.,
Commander-In-Chief of the Indian Forces, two grand
colts for carriage use: Star, by Mask, by Sir Hercules
—dam imported (she won the Bega District Purse in a
canter); also Hop, by Mask, by Sir Hercules—dam by
Millionaire. They were selected by Mr. Charles Ivory.
It is said there was some disgraceful swindling
between bookmakers and owners of horses at the late
Dunedin meeting. Our N.Z. correspondent informs ns
that it is not safe now-a-days for the outside public to
back a horse, notwithstanding what may be said to the
contrary by owners. He adds it is true that there are
some straightforward owners, but unfortunately very
The private trotting match between the N.Z
horses. Our Pony and Native Cat, for £3OO a-side, three
miles, came off on the second day of the Dunedin meet-
ing, and resulted in a victory for Our Pony, who had
5 sec. start from the favourite. Native Gat. The betting
was 2tol on Native Cat. The favourite broke down
repeatedly, Our Pony winning by 250 yards. Time 8
min. 30 sec.
An eleven of the National C.C. beat the Olios
last Saturday, at the National Ground, by 71 runs
Scores—National 96, Clio 25. For the’club first-named
Vial made 32 by vigorous play. The Nationals have had
a moat successful season, having won 18'oat of 20
matches. They are especially strong in the bowling
department, and have a very clever wicket-keeper in
Adamson.
The Parramatta Rifle Company accepted a
challenge for a rifle match with the Windsor Company
and on Saturday last the event took place—ten men a
side, seven shots each at 500 and 600 yards. The
shooting throughout was good, and the Windsor team
won by twenty-four points. Captain Lingaley was in
charge of the Windsor party, and Second Lieut. Ferris
commanded the Parramatta team.
At a recent sale in England, ten greyhounds
brought 711 guineas, the highest being sold for 400
guineas and the lowest for teu guineas. This is not in
excess of former scales. Bedlamite and Peasant Boy,
two well-known hounds, each having brought I 00
guineas, and for Master M'Grath. probably the most
famous dog ever bred in Ireland, his owner. Lord
Lnrgan, was offered the sum of £4OOO.
Mr. S. Pranok, the patentee of the totalisator,
is in New Zealand, making extensive preparations for a
warfare at law with jockey clubs and priyate parties
who have infringed his patent, as ho alleges, throughout
New Zealand. He enters an action first against the
Wellington Clnb, which action will oome off in April.
Mr. Franck has taken the best legal advice, and is
peculiarly confident of winning the day.
At the Tamar Regatta, Bob Edwards very
easily appropriated the champion sculls, open to all
comers, B. Wing, of Melbourne, being second, and
John Clark, of Hobart, third. Great expectations were
once formed of Clarke’s capabilities as a sculler, as he
is a very powerful man, and about 6ft. 6in. in height •
but the Tasmanian giant had to take a back seat) the
moderate Bob Wing even showing him the way.
Good work is being done on the training track
at Band wick during the mornings. The different strings
under the care of Messrs. Lamont, Fenuelly, Donnelly,
Ross, Bayner, Monaghan, Alsop, Ivory, and Ashworth!
have done useful work, though not worth particularis-
ing. Mr. W. A. Long’s representatives, consisting of
Grand Flaneur, Gipsy Cooper, Wandering Jew, and one
or two others, have been taking walking exercise daring
the week,
A considerable amount of interest attaches to
the Orange Race Meeting, which is to come off on
Thursday and Friday next. The racing promises to be
above the average. Books are open upon the two prin-
cipal handicaps, but speculation has not been brisk
owing to a rumour that Mr. Smith’s Waxy is the Mel-
bourne horse of that name. If such be the case, he has
been fairly thrown in at the weights, and the others can
have but little chance against such a performer.
Mr. Samuel Gardener, of Referee, Bundoonah
Park, lately sent a number of youngsters to Dunedin,
N Z., for sale. The following were the sales:—Messrs.
Mason and Vallance purchased a Tubal Cain—Topsy
colt, for22sgs.; a Tubal Coin—Seashell colt, for2i)ogs. •
a Tubal Cain—Debenture colt, for 25gs. J Cowan pur-
chased Cromwell—Sauuterer stock, a rising filly, for
lOOgs.; a Tubal Cain—Argosy filly, for 70gs ; a Lurljne
colt, by Flying Dutchman, and a Tubal Coin—Coquette
colt were passed in at 300 gs.
Our old sporting friend, Billy Little, is again to
the fore. The following appears as an advertisement
in the Hodgkinson (N.Q.) Minsk " Australians and
Cosmopolitans being anxious to show their admiration
of the hull-dog pluck of Elias Lajcock, will present him
with a purse of sovereigns from Thornborough, North-
em Queensland, as a token of their unfeigned admira-
tion. Subscriptions will be received by W. 0. Little
J. Hogsflesh, Robert Lord, J. J. Byers, and 6. R. Ogg*.
—W. C. Littlb, secretary and treasurer. Thornborough
Feb. 19,1881." ’
The Australian Eleven have entered upon an
unsuccessful campaign in New South Wales. Though
many anticipated the defeat they suffered at the hands
of the combined team, few imagined that the Newcastle
twenty-two would beat them so easily. The match
resulted in a victory for the twenty-two by tweaty-ono
wickets, the eleven having averted a single innings'
defeat by two runs, which were obtained by the New-
castle batsmen without losing a wicket. The Aus-
tralians made 57 and 76. of which the double figure
scores made were McDonald, 12, and Boyle, not out, 19
m the first innings, and Spofforth, 10, Murdoch 16
Slight, not out, 20, and Jones, 10. The Twenty-two
made 181, of which Bignell made 29, Hall, 22, Bryant
15, and I*angley f 13. The eleven showed very poor
form, and seemed to play without much spirit. Messrs
S. Jones and A. L. Park, of Sydney, filled np the
vacancies in the Eleven caused by the retirement of
Palmer and A, Banner man.
The betting market is - getting brisker, owing
probably to the return of the Melbourne contingent.
For the Hawkesbury Handicap, Waterford has been
supported at 500 to 25, Lord Burghley is quoted at 100
to 8, while 100 to 7 can be obtained about Stratheam,
Chesterfield, and Hesperian. Grand Flaneur has been
backed to win the Sydney Cup for a fair amount, and
the best price to be obtained now is 100 to 20; Btol is
offered Wellington, and 100 to 8 Hesperian, Canary,
Bichmond, and Stratheam. For the Champagne
Stakes, Spiuningdale has been backed at sto 2; any-
thing else 100 to 2. For the Leger, nothing is mentioned
but Grand Flaneur.
Mclndoe, the champion swimmer of Victoria,
having a few weeks ago issued a challenge to swim
Corbett, or any other man in New South Wales, for £5O
or £lOO a side, and threatened to claim the champion-
ship of N.S.W. if not taken Up in a week, some of
Corbett’s friends offered to back him if ha would swim.
Corbett agreed to do so, and wired Mclndoe, accepting
his challenge on condition that the latter would swim
here in four or five weeks’ time. However, Mclndoe
now refuses to come over unless he receives £lO for
expenses, which the Sydney man’s backers consider the
Victorian is not entitled to, as his public challenge
distinctly states that ho will swim any man in New
South Wales, and mentions nothing about expenses.
If Mclndoe is as eager for the match as he pretends to
be, the stake should be sufficient inducement for him to
visit Sydney. Corbett’s recent performances at the
swimming contests here would damp the enthusiasm of
a pluckier man than the Victorian.
This ia how the Nelson (N.Z.) Colonist now-
speaks of the All-Australian Eleven:—“At the! con-
clusion of the game, Mr Lucre again had his fine turn-
out ready for our visitors, and on taking their seats the
Nelson men gave them three hearty but undeserved
cheers, for only one (Mr. Boyle) recognised the compli-
ment in any way, unless an ill-tempered scowl can be
called so doing. They were again cheered on their
departure from the wharf, whither they were also
conveyed by Mr. Lucre, but there was the same ill-bred
conduct, and a feeling akin to relief was experienced
when the men had really left. Individual members of
the team might possibly improve on acquaintance, and
it may be that one or two are not in reality so boorish
as they appeared. It is, however, generally supposed
that travel gives polish; but if it has done so with
several of the Australian team we can only deplore
their original roughness.” And a great deid more to
the same effect.
The Australasian is severe on Mr. W. Long
for scratching Grand Flaneur. It says that “from Mr.
Long's letter it would appear that his principles are to
consult merely his owu convenience and to disregard
altogether the expectations of the public if it suits his
ends to do so. If Mr. Long is justified in exercising to
the fullest extent his legal rights with an ostentations
scorn for the expectations formed of him on the as-
sumption that he was a high-minded sportsman, why
should the public forego, out of consideration to that
gentleman’s feelings, their right to hoot him on the
racecourse if they find amusement or convenience or
reUef in doing so ?
With this slight qualification we can fully con-
cur in Mr. Long’s letter. We read it as a disclaimer
the character which had been erroneously attri-
buted to him of a generous, straightforward lover
of sport, who would, even at the cost of incon-
venience, redeem manfully the implied pledges he had
entered into with the x>ublic. Mr. Long says he is not
that sort of man at all, and we quite accept his assur-
ance. It would be easy from his public acts and from
his letter to draw pretty accurately the portrait of Mr.
Long as he really is, but as the public seems to have a
ve'y definite and correct idea on the subject, it is need-
less to attempt the task.”
On Saturday, 12th inst., a varied assortment
from the Instruction Office and the city were to be
observed skimming towards the Circular Quay. The
cause of this movement was ascertained to be the Public
Instruction Department Rowing Club Regatta. There’s
a name copious enough to fill a tank, and long enough
to suspend any Civil servant. This, the club’s second
outing, was held in Shell Cove, the steamer -Fgoria
doing what the public cannot do —namely, taking the
officials down. There were eight races on the multi-
graph. The stock remark of the afternoon was that
this was a gala without a gale. Liquids were abundant
—water least so. Visitors only met with one reverse—
that of Mr. E,, who at first sat in his boat in the
opposite way to that usually adopted by civilised boat-
men and Hanlan. One man’s oars were not a pair—
another case of the extraordinary lengths some men
will go to. A third man, who nearly fell overboard,
was boy-cot (ted), his young friends being of opinion
that the less the porpoises got of him, the more there
would be for official purposes. It might be mentioned
that the only persons who threw cold water on the
racin g were two young co mpetitors. Some water-police
went over from Sydney to see what they were splashing
about—people in the city thinking another torpedo
accident had occurred. The principal prize-takers were
Messrs. West and Kinninmont (2), Richards, Alderdice,
and Bethel. The electro-plate stores will now resume
their wonted aspect. Pretty mugs went to the reverse,
until butter prizes were dished up. E-ery one was
merry—the winners kindly keeping outside their cups-
Finale: Speeches, whiskey, and cabs.
The following is a brief resume of the racing at
the P Instruction Department’s regatta on the 12th
First event.—For Seniors, pulling a pair of sculls in
light skiffs. The honors in this race were awarded to
T. Kinniumont, Mr. Strong, who came in by about a
length ahead of Kinnimont, having passed the judge’s
boat upon the wrong side. Mr. Bethel took the third
place. In the second heat of this race Mr. West made
it too warm for his opponents, Mr. Richards
taking second place. Third eveut. —Junior Double
Sculls. W. Alderdice and A Kinninmont scored a win,
Mercer and Bourke with Bassan and Selkirk close
behind. Fourth event.—For Seniors, pulling two pairs
of soulls in skiffs. Early in the race Messrs. Richards
and T. Kinninmont toik the lead, whinh they main-
tained to the finish ; West and C. Alderdice 2; Strong
and GreenS. Fifth event.—For Seuiors, pulling a
single pair of soulls. A Kinninmont 1, Edwards 2,
Bourke 3. W. Alderdice, who was the favourite for this
race, met with a mishap and only succeeded in taking
fourth place. In the sixth event, namely the final heat
for the renior single sculls, West won by about twenty
lengths, his opponent, T. Kinninmont, finding his
ohonceof taking first place hopeless, deciding to reserve
himself for the last race. Seventh race.—This was a
gift for Alderdice and Kinninmont, the second junior
pair of oars being a long way astern. Tbe eighth race
was a first-class one and made a brilliant finish, to a
good afternoon’s racing—it was that of the seniors
palling a pair of oars. In this Bethel and T Kinnin-
mont took the first place, having for immediate fol-
lowers Messrs. West and Strong and Richards and
Alderdice. Mr. H, A. Scott effected sonae vqvj
starts, while the cares of judge rested lightly upon Mr.
J. Booth.
The Dunedin Jockey Club’s three days’ meet
was wall attended, but the racing was not as good as
usual, owing to the number of horses being scratched,
and several “shady” transactions which took place.
The Champagne stakes went to Somnus, who is by
Troducer, Envy second, and Idalium third. Only seven
horses faced the starter for the big event of the meet-
ing, the Dunedin Cup of 500 sovereigns, with a sweep-
stake of 10 sovereigns each, two miles and a distance,
and it was won for the first time by an Otago horse,
Mr. R, Campbell’s Sir Mudred (7st. Ifilb.), Mr. H. P.
Lance’s On Dit (7st. 21b ) Peing second; and Mr H
Horsford's The Governor (fist. 131 b ) third. The time
was very poor, 4min. 2Jsec.; Mata, the winner last
year, did the distance in 3 uin. 56-iec. The winner
is by Traducer, out of Tdalia. Lidy Emma ran
fifth, and old Fishhook last. Hilarious (7st.),
a Sydney bred one, appropriated the Publicans’
Handicap, 1J mile; Natator (Bst. 121 b.), the Wellington
Cup winner, getting second place, and Sir Modred (Bst.
131 b.) third. Natator (Bst. lltb.) won the big event of
the second day (the Jockey Club Handicap, of 200
sovereigns, with a sweep of 5 sovereigns each. 1 j mile);
Hilarious (7st.), second; Lady Emma (7st. 21b ), third.
Time, 3mm. 20sec. The Railway Plate went to Sir
Modred, who beat hands down Sir Hercules R.ibinson’s
Legerdemain and Nautilius. The Agent, with 12st. up,
won the Steeplechase ; and another Sydney bred horse’
Rand wick (7sk. 131 b ), the Fosbury Handicap; while the
Queen’s Plate, 2 miles, went to The Governor (7st,
121 b,), Sylvanus (7st. 121b5.) second. Lady Emma (7st.
3tbs ) third ; time, 3min Slisec. Lure put the only
winning bracket to his name at the meeting by getting
first in the Plying Stakes, beatiag Talent, second, and
Legerdemain, third. Talent won the Consolation,
beating six others. On settling night, the Jockey Clnb
paid away £2383 in stakes.
(Continued on page 14).


Tailors, Drapers, fee.
T
HOMPBON AND GILES,
HEMSON HOU^E,
368, 3bo, 362 Georg e-street.
OPENING NEW GOODS
f. r
WINTER SEASON
EVERY DAY DUE NG iHIS MONTH.
FIRST GENERAL SHOW
of
NOVEL TIES
i»
DRESSES
FOR THE WINTER SEASON.
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO CHOOSE FROM.
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HO «ESpUN
ELASTIC BIEGE
KA'GHER CASHMERE
SIOCKINGETTE
CAMBRIAN HOMESPUN
IN DR IS CLOTH
anGOLA CaSIMEEE
JBR EY < L )TH
VALPARAISO CLOTH
AND A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF OTHER
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY—We have opened 3
cases of very CHOICE MILLIN-
ERY. something quite new and
handsome, direct from the leading
house* in London and Paris.
THOMPSON AND GILES
SILK DEPARTMENT. BLACK
SILK, Rich Velvets Black, 22inch
to 24 inch wide, 2a lid, 3s 61. 3s lid,
4s 61, 5s 6d, 6i61. 7s fid. Extraor-
dinurv value. Patterns post free.
BLACK SATIN DAMASK. BLaCK
BROCADES, BLACK FIGURED
SlLKS.inavarutyof new patterns.
BLACK SATIN HE LYON 23 to 24
inches wide, Ss lid, 4s 11 1,5 s lid,
6-1 d, 7* 61. These are now much
worn, and strongly recommended
for w-ar. and first-class value.
BLACK VELVETEENS
NAUCUNlUM.guaiauteed fast black,
everv yard stamped on hack.
BLA- K SATINS for DRESSES, 22
inches and 24 inches wide, 3s 61,
3s lid. 4s 6d, 6s 61. 6s 61. These
are 1 ght and soft, and considerably
under n-ual urioes. STRIPED
SILK VELVETS. PLUSHES in
eveiy shade of colour. Embossed
and Brocaded SILK VELVETS,
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPARTMENT.—We have
OPENED a LARGE ASSORT-
MENT of all d script ions of
LACES in every make, real and
imitation. Embroidered Trimmings,
Ruffling. Modeira W rk. Lanes’
Culls, Collarettes Sets, Spanish
Lace Ties in Black and Ecru,
Spanish Lace by the yard in every
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS we always get FREE
PKuM DRESS. «o that there will
be no decept ca alter they are
washed. Ladies will find our
She*tings good value and standard
makes Prices : 72-iuch, from lOd
to Is lid ; 80-inch la to 2> 21; 90-
inch, Is 6d to 2s 6d ; l r o-incb, 2s 2d
to 3s. American Denison H* use,
& Horro-ks’ CALICOES, TOILET
QUILTS, from If to 31 long at, all
prices. Coloured aLHAMBHA
QUILTS. 2i long 3 61. IOILET
COVERS at all prices and sizes, by
the yard, 27 and 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN and HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT —lt has always
been our sti dy to import goods of
this class of thoroughly genuine
character. Bi this means we have,
year after year, incremed our Sale
of FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY. We
are now showing a eery nice shin
meutof of DAMASK CLOTH and
NAPKINS, both Double and Single
Dumas a. Thet-e goods we have in
every size and at. prices unequalled
for cheapness and value in the
oolonv. We commence onr DA*
MASK CLOTHS irom 3s lid to
12.; 5 8 NAPKINS. 4 6d to 12s 6d;
3-4 NAPKINS from 7s 6d to
29s 6d; DAMA'K DOYLEY4.
round or'square all priots. SLIP
DAMASK 58 and ."-4 wide: UN-
BLtACHBD TABLE LINEN,
from Is 9d to 2s 61; BEST IRISH
SHEETIN'LS ..I) widths; IRISH
PILLOW LINEN, 40, 45, 54 inches
wide ; WHITE TURKISH
TOWELS, from 12s 6d 'o 365, ac-
cord ng t> size; BbOWN TURK-
ISH TOWELS, GLAbS CLOTHS
TEA CLOTH'S. K\IFE CLOTHS,
TURKISH DUSTERS, RUSSIA
CRASH PINAFORE DIAPERS,
CL 'UTTNG DIAPERS, MANG
LING CL TTH, made expressly,
27, 30, 33 36 inches wide.
THOMP3OV AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
B
L A N K E T S.
BLANKETS.
■FIRST SHIPMENT OP THE SEASON"
n>>w opened at
EDWARD HORDERN S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into t.b« Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE, PULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth in-pecting.
“ Competition defied."
ANN I X
■SB
B R O T H E E S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOB
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
—o—
To Countbt Gentlemen,—
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im.
mediately forward to any
part of the oolony.
Note the address:
MANNIX BROS.,
123 (late 109)
KINO STREET.
Tailors, Drapers, fto.
JJAVID
JONES AND
COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen's Spring and Summer wear, tn new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in-the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Bireot special attention to their Importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spnng and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled In style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits.
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s 6d
per suit.
JJAVID
JONES AND
COMPANY’S
ITbe latest shape; a use-
ful and durable suit
for business and ordi-
nary wear.
35s per
suit.
JJAVID
Orient
Bac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
(In light Homespuns and\
thin Cheviots and Ban 42s per
nockbums. for Spring ’ Suit,
and Summer wear.
D
A ViD
Orient
Sac Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
( In Choice Oriental \
j Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
1 general wear, In neat j per suit
\ checks and mixtures. )
JJAVID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Light and")
T lurable, the materials j
< having been well >■
shrunk before being |
I. made up.
63s per
suit.
JJAVxD
Orient
Walking Suits,
JONES AND COMPANY’S
flu Superior Oriental -- !
Tweeds, cut in the I
latest style, and X
finished the same as
ordered clothing.
JJAVID
Orient
Serg Suits
JONES AND GOA PANY’b
> Beautifully light in )
Texture permanent in 38s fid
..oionr ana ve., dur- per suit,
V able in wear.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
f Special attention is in-'!
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best valne, and )• Orient
most perfect in st< le I Clothing,
and flush procurable I
in the colony. J
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
'ln Superior Tasmanian')
I Flannel, thoroughly f
| shrank. f
18* 6d
■entlemen’s
immer Coats
in all the
Newest
iterials, well
t, and nicely
finished.
{China Silk Coats IBs fid each.
Military Duck Coats. 14s fid each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s fid each.
AD Wool Merino Coats, 14s fid each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 90s.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
'ln fine Black Alpaca, 22s fid each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
i In Blue Sergerette, IBs.
v ln Black Sergerette, 455.
Gentlemen’s
8,8. Frock
Coats.
'ln fine Black Alpaca, 27s fid.
In Black Merino. 30s.
Lin Super Sergerette, 665.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s fid.
~ „ tn Self Colours, Ss fid.
_, „ in Fancy Colours, 8s fid.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s fid.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s 6d.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
'ln Superior, all Wool - )
| Tambary Tweed, well > 80s each
L finished. )
The
Orient.
'A Special Dress Over-"!
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- 5-
fully tight, and agree- j
. able to wear. J
66s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
B
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOR SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
anil most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
1 78
e Bd,
fid, 8s
In neat fashionable I Bd, 12s fid.
Tweeds, neatly out 1 X3s fid, IBs
and well made, and f fid, 17s fid,
finished. I lbs fid per
J suit.
Boys’
Blue serge
Knicker Suits.
'ln new shapes, very") 12s fid to
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
in'!
5j
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
i Drills, trimmed
i new and effe
w styles.
I For dress wear, extra
finished, superior
material, and excel-
lent shape.
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
In superior Nayy Serges
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, budge,
collar and undershirt.
Youths*
Tweed
Suits.
fin light arid dark mlx-'j
tures, cut in fashion- j
able styles.
made.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
In fine durable Esta-\
mens Serge, admirably [ 22s to 27s
adapted for school and [ fid*
general wear. I
Youths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Suits.
(For dress we
trimmed and made
i a superior manner.
")
28* to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Easiness Announcements
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBRO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
[Leojll.J
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evrsihg
News Office.
vv.
MAC L E 0
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOUREE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
D.
'yiCTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brash ware.
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Boom and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273). GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
gANDER LAZARDS AND CO.
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORE STREET
G. CHURCHWOOD
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
OF
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES.
AX I)
SAUSAGE SKINS,
147 TORE STREET.
Gr.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskink Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings. Oases. Turnery, &0.. at lowest rates.
QHEAPEST AND
BEST GROCERIES
MARE ISAACS* CORPORATION STORES,
HAT STREET, HATMAREET,
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good,
Co d packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREEEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH,
ERMEWAN, WRIGHT and CO.
(LIMITED).
Capital—£loo,ooo, in 20,000 Shares of £5 each.
(Established 1858.)
RAILWAY and GENERAL CARRIERS, CUSTOMS
and
SHIPPING AGENTS.
Directors :
Hon HENRY CUTH BERT, M.L.G.
C W, GIBSON. Esq (Messrs. Fisken and Gibson)
J - p -} «-*-•
Registered Office—l2o OoHins-street West, Melbourne,
Sydney Office —Eing.street, next door Howard Smith
and Sons.
Branch Offices at
Ararat
Avoca
Albury
Beaufort
Becohworth
Belfast
Benalla
Ballarat
Ballarat East
Bridgewater
Betbunga
Bairnsdale
Colac
Clones
Corowa
Dimhoola
Deniliquin
Dubbo
E\erton
Geelong
Hay
H. rsham
Hamilton
Maryborough
Murtoa
Moama
Narai dera
Orange
Sandhurst
St. Arnaud
Sale
Wogga Wagga
Wodonga
Wangaratta
Wahgunjah
Portland
With Agencies at Adelaide. Brisbane, Rockhampton,
B'wke, Balranald, Booligol, Forbes.Parkes, Wilcannia,
Hi. l-tou, and M long.
Sidnev, Ist February, 1881.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
ASN. CO.’S WHARF.
Sydney, March 1,1881.
Ihavenrnchnleasure to intorm my CONSTITUENTS
and the GENERAL PUBLIC that, in consequence of
the large INCREASE in ray BUSINESS, I have ar-
ranged with ray brother, Mr WM WII.KIN3ON (late
manager of the EIRE TON VINEYARD), to act in
c >njunction with Mr. MURRAY, in STD V EV.
lam now in a position to largely EXTEND my
VINEYARD, and devote tb° necessary lime to the
growth and maturing of my WINES.
ADDITIONAL CELLARS
re been engaged in a central position, and will
-ORTLY he ANNOUNCED.
am pleaded to again have an opportunity of Ihans-
my NUMEROUS FRIENDS and SU PPORTERS
their very LIBERAL SUPPORT during my BLSL
3SS CAREER in Sydney.
JOHN A. WILEINSOM.
Tailors, Drapers, fee.
COUNTRY ORDERS promptly despatched and
co»efnUv execnf* d. Send P.O. Order Now open,
a choice selection of Fanev and G-nera 1 Drapery, in all
the Denar*merits—Ntw Dress Materials such as Pap-
laines. Serges, Cashmeres Satin Cloths.
FIRST CLASS DRESSMAKING.
AUTUMN AND WINTER MILLINERY
Onr own Manufactured Glove Registered.
2 Buttons 4 Bnttons 6 Buttons
2s 9d
Fasted 3s.
3s 9d
4s
4s 9d
5s
Cnt paper patterns, all garments, 9d to 2s.
656
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just, below Liverpool-st.)
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect t itting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illn-tratiuns with each pattern.
MADAME DEtMDKEST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. stt‘ Plates, la.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
•7 K>so Stbeet, Sydney (two doors from Oeorge-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
M TT IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT ’ THAT
JL for Household or Family Deanery “ Edward
Hordern's” Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
poriurn on the Brick SeM Hill has 41 No Rival,” either
for Value. Variety, or Extend o f Htook.
NEW and BE A UTfPJL G JODS opening out
every day.
NO BRANCH H O CHE S ANYWHERE.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
IX
XX
XX
XX
IX
XX
XX
STRANGE BUT TRUE.
HORDERN’S
Are Selling CARPETS at Is lid.
First-class good CARPETS (and pretty)
Made up and Sewn in Good Style
At a trifling charge.
CALL AND SEE THEM.
PITT-STREET, PITT-STREET.
All the Novelties of Pitt-st.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
IX
XX
XX
TrTnnnrYXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
N
OTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
SUITS TO ORDER, 60s.
R.C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
27 KING STREET,
Where you can be fitted with the most fashionable and
cheapest Outfit in the Colony.
Note the Extraordinary Cheap Prices for Suits made
from the best of Scotch Tweeds, in Five-button sac pat-
tern. to Order, 50s.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, SOs ,
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Bannockum Tweed tnits, to Order, SOs
Cheviot Tweed Suits, to Order SOs
Trousers t o Order Trousers to Order Trousers to Order
16s 6d 16s 6d 16* 6d
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d
Canadian Two d Trousers, to Order, 16* 6s
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s fid
Homespun Tweed trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
N.B. —Gentlemen should inspect this stock of choice
Scotch Suitings, as the above prices for Suits to Order at
50s are usually made in the City at 70s.
Note the Address—
-127 KINO STREET.
3
a
$
&
54
o>
18
m
m
m
a
mt
Si
is
m
m
x
m
V A
A
■jABOUE BAZAAR,
FURNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STREET.
Establi. bed A.D. 1310.
A. MOORE'and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their exten-ive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, 4c., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAR at a cheaper
rate than at any other bouse in the colonies.
Wholesale buyers libei aMy dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND 00..
Manufacturers and Inaxortcrs.


Hotels, &c
JOHN A. W I
WINK GROWER & ME
COOLALTA WINE
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf. Oi
Sydney.
Vineyard i Coolalta, Branxton,
PRICE LIST C
COOLALTA 1
Extra fine quality, 42s. ]
RED WINES Quarts
a. d
Bnngnndv .80 (
No. 1 Coolalta Red 21 (
No. 2 „ „ 16 C
Vin Ordinaire.... 12 C
WHITE WINES.
Muscat 30 fl
No. 1 Coolalta 21 C
No. 2 16 0
Vin Ordinaire 12 0
I
ICE. ICE
E
FROM FILTERED
Supplied in ant Qm
AND AT REDUCED
Direct from th
CITY ICE COMPAN
WATERLOO
Office— 3 WYNYARI
[1HE GENUINE EAU
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by th
Manufactured
JOHANN MARIA
JULTCHS-PLATZ,
• COLOGNE, o Rh. (G
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Roy
By appointment to His Roya
Prince of Wale
Prize MedalsLondon, 1851; Nev
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba ( A
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili)
1876; and Capetown 1877. (I
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioi
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudul(
Colognes; and notice is hereby g
Marks being duly registered, all i
Deeded against to the full extent o
JOHANN MAR
J
WHOLESALE AG
MESSRS. RABONE, FJ
3 WYNYAED SQl
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TKDIM(2 M I
Hotels, &c
MHE COMPAGNO
*- CAFE AND CATERING C(
The ladies' and gentlemen’s BEST
IS NOW ope;
The Company have secured tt
Marriette, late cWf de cuisine
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special diune:
Three hours notice required for pr
The spacious rooms ot Messrs
been greatly enlarged, re-decor
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30, 1880.
OMPAGNON1 PALACE (
serve up in their hei
OYSTER S'lEWB
OYS1EBS SOOLLl
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OTSTEBS NATUB
Patrons of our Theatres and Co
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGKONT’S. opposit
WEHiiOVV S Vvu<»LP
PARRAMATTj
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the
moderate charges. Fu sl-ciass Uu
use of those who are fond of recre.
(JIO ENGLISH
And Visitors from the neighb
and the Public gem
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW S
THE IMPERIAL
MOUNT VICTuB
Is in the midst of all that is worth a
Mountains. First-class acconii
and gentlemen. Comfort, clej
combined with moderate charg
J. G. COUSI
Proprietor.
HOTEL HE EU
78 & 80 CASTLEREA
Opposite Theatre ]
L.I-
OT
"9
LEBA
MU
m
as
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-BOOB
Hotels, Ike.
o LD
EXHIRITIO
PEINOE ALFRED ;
(Opposite Gate.
SPLENDID ACCOM MOD V CION
Plauge and .‘-hnwer Baths
WINES and SPIRIl'S, superior
drawn from the wood.
TH03. HILI
o
CCIDENTAL
WYNYABD SOU/
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTI
•WM, TANNEE, Pro]
(Late Cub House Hot
Hotels, &c
F o > T h;
The BEST ALE and Si'OLT
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEP]
MERCHANTS
VI11G0E, SON, AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
Sole
It is of tin utmost importance t
bottle should be carefully co •■pare
are being imported into New St
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite hevet
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will fin
least 10 per cent, in favour of I
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
J.
C. W A
(Late COLLINS k B
iERATED WATERS, GIJ
and
CORDIAL MANUFAi
438 HARRIS STRE1?
Jjl ASTERN SPECIALITY
GABLES AND AJ
strongly recommend their
2.--. TEA.,
which will be found equal to an;
much higher pri
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
ePurestStimuia
•THE WORVP
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
Is on every Genuine Bottle.
J U IS 1 P to K T ±t
This celebrated Dutch Gin maj
all storekeepers and respectable
trial wid prove it superior to the c
tnred Gin now so la; tr -"ed
m
sa
rl
&
Wholesale Agent—C HA
2 BRIDGE STREET, 1
i & *1
-«y Tt 1 ®
B < TJ
Sr
ris not the clearness <i ioudirr
Ale that preserves this t rain
nation. Common hitter rude beej
but no other brand has mo same n
ter, the fulness on the pol ite, ai
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C


“THE POOR PLAYER"
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
J. B. Steele has arrived in Sydney.
No shows in Dunedin at latest advices.
Amy Sherwin, at latest, was in New York.
At late <ldtcs Dr. Lynn showing at Mackay.
Jennie Nye recently benefited at Dunedin.
Auckland is a big bonanza for “ gift shows.”
Lizzie Morgan is playing with a company in
Wanganui, N.Z.
At latest dates Annie Pixley was at Chicago,
playing “ MTiss.”
Herr Bandmann and company opened in Christ-
church, N.Z , in “ Hamlet.”
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Tavares have been playing
successfully at Rockhampton.
James F. Cathcarfc, of the Bandmann Company,
had a “ tea " in Dunedin, N.Z.
Charles Warner and Hermann Vezin are playing
“Othello” at Sadler’s Wells.
Ketten cleared .8225 by a recent Saturday per-
formance at Melbourne Town Hall.
The London Comedy Company opened in Ade-
laide last Saturday week in “ Ours."
Charley Wallace and Brown-and Newlands are
showing at the London Music Halls.
In “ A Winter’s Tale ” Louise Pomeroy doubles
the characters Hermione and Perdita.
The Simonsen Opera Company are drawing
fairly good houses in Wellington, N Z.
Mr. Edwin Kelly is unwell at Maryborough (Q.).
He is expected in Sydney in three weeks.
Zulu Thompson has gone to Melbourne, where
he opens on March 27th at St. George’s Hall.
The sergeant of police in the “ Pirates of Pen-
zance,” will be played by Mr. J. C. Williamson.
It is many years since a dramatic company did
so well in Dunedin as Herr Bandmann and troupe.
The Lynch family of bellringers appeared at
Romsey (Vic.) the other night to a crowded house.
Emily Soldene’s new company is pronounced the
poorest she has ever been associated with in America.
It is nnderscood that E. A. Sothern died of
inflammation of the lungs and kidney complaint allied.
Kate Bateman intends retiring from stage life,
having grown too stout to be any longer a model Leah.
Miss Ada Gilbert re-appeared at the Melbourne
Bijou on Saturday week, as Mrs. Hallitt in “ Family
Ties.”
The “Gem” Minstrels, of whom we had not
before heard, have been playing at Narandera to good
houses.
That rising young actor, G. P. Carey, is playing
Perkin Middlewick with Holloway’s Company at
Ballarat.
Herr Bandmann as Charles Surface in the
• School for Scandal.” What a treat the Dunedinites
must have had I
Up to the departure of the late W. S. Lyster for
Europe in 1878, he had superintended 1750 performances
in Melbourne.
After hearing the ‘‘two K.’s,” a young lady,
who is a thorough musician, said, “ I heard Ketten, but
I felt Kowalski.”
Signor Carmini-Morley recently had a “ farewell
concert” tendered to him in Dunedin. Herr Benno
Soherek assisted.
Baker and Farron closed a week’s engagement
in the Academy of Music, Buffalo, N.T., Jan. 8, to
splendid business.
Gossip is busy marrying Miss Mary Anderson to
George Riddle, the Harvard College actor, in the not
very remote future.
Mrs. Lewis plays her Christmas pantomime for
a week at Garner’s Theatre, Adelaide, the " Pinafore”
season having ended.
Wybert Reeve is drawing fair houses at the
Melbourne Academy. He must miss Ada Lester; at all
events, the public do.
Signora Qabriella Boema makes her first appear-
ance in Sydney this (Thursday) night, in conjunction
with the Austrian Bond.
Mr. Joseph Aarons, late proprietor of the Bijou
Theatre, Melbourne, is again “ on the theatrical lay" in
the southern metropolis.
The Vaidis, twin sisters, who appeared here
with Siraonsen’s Froliques, were at latest dates at
Walhalla Theatre, Berlin.
Sara Bernhardt fainted during the fourth act of
“ Phedre,” at M’Vieker’e, Chicago, on 14th, but sub-
sequently finished the play.
When Sothern breathed his last, his sister, Mrs.
Cowan was holding his hand. She felt it suddenly
grow cold, and all was over.
A company of thirty-two minstrels play a season
of fifteen nights at the Gaiety after Kowalski closes.
Then the Musgrove Opera troupe.
James Carden and Miss Marston Leigh are on
their way oat to Melbourne by the Norfolk, which
sailed from London on January 29.
Cole’s Circus will perform at all the principal
country towns before appearing in Sydney. The Dig
show leaves for America on April 21st.
An Auckland paper remarks that Williamson
owes Searcll a turn for the evidence he gave in the
Liugard bankruptcy case. Is this so ?
Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Beyers, assisted by local
amateurs, played “Lost for Gold” at Rockhampton
two nights consecutively to good houses.
Grattan Riggs played Uncle Pete in the
“ Octoroon” when in Auckland, J. B. Steele Salem
Scudder, and Dare Clinton Jacob M'Closkey.
J. Wilkinson has been endeavouring to make
the Wanganui (N.Z.) people ill by playing John Stofel
in “ Struck Oil.” What has J. C. W. got to say ?
Glasgow audiences were so pleased with the
“ Pirates of Penzance” that as many as three perfor-
mances of it were daily given by Mr. D’Oyley Carte’s
company.
Mrs. Bateman, manageress of Sadler’s Wells,
died on the 13th January, from inflamation of the lungs,
aged 57. She has been manageress, actress, and
authoress.
As the Pirate Apprentice, Armes Beaumont has
a splendid part in Gilbert and Sullivan’s new opera.
Verdi, as the Pirate King, ought to prove a magnifi-
cent picture.
John Hodson, who for many years travelled with
Barnum’s Circus as “the living skeleton,” committed
suicide in New York recently. Bernhardt’s visit is be-
ginning to tell.
Mr. Alfred Dampler has purchased the Austra-
lian rights of Messrs. Conquest and Petit’s drama,
‘‘The Green Lanes of England,” and Mr. Henry
Petit’s “Black Flag."
Joe Cheerers and Charley Sutton, two of the
six “end men” playing with the Moore and Burgess
Minstrels, are now emulating Haverley's Mastodon
Minstrels’ best “ acts.”
The six performing stallions in Cole’s Circus are
of Flemish breed. They are marvellous in action, and
accomplish most difficult feats with an ease and
precision almost human.
E. A. Sothern was buried at Southampton,
England on the 25th inst. The pall-bearers comprised
Lyttoo Sothern, Samuel Sothern, Edwin Booth, Dion
Bouoicanlt, Sir John Reid, Edgqr Pemberton, Robert
Wyndham, and others. A personal friend of the dead
aotor read the burial service.
Mrs. Walter Hill, Miss Madge Herrick, Miss
Lily May, and Messrs Hydes, Kennedy, Tyrell, Alexan-
der, and others have late ly occupied the boards of the
Theatre Royal, Christchurch, N.Z., and drawn fair
houses.
Some rather unprofessional attempts to induce
some of the members of Mr. Williamson’s picked
chorns to break their engagements, have been made by
certain Melbourne vocalists who are trying to form an
opera company.
The Beatrice-D’Orsay Ogden combination made
u successful first appearance at Maryborough on sth
inst. On their way down from Qympie they played
“ East Lynn " at Tiaro! At Maryborough they opened
in “ East Lynne.”
Edwin Browne says that Queensland has “ more
land aud less labor, more streams and less water, more
cows and less milk, more bees and less honey, and more
preachers and leas Christians than any other country
on this earth."
A prominent actor has written a book entitled
“Howto Act.” It won’t have any sale. People who
are not actors don’t want to know how to act, and
where is the actor who will admit that anybody can tell
him how to act ?
Simonsen’s Opera Company produced “ Mari-
tana ” in Wellington, with Madame in the title role ;
Miss Currie Godfrey as Lazarillo; Signor Blanch! as
Don Cfflsar; Signor Riccardi as Don Jos«s; Mr. St. Clair
as the King of Spain.
A Christchurch dramatic company lately
produced a new drama entitled “Our Own Corres-
pondent, or Ireland and New Zealand,” hut the local
papers say that as a literary composition the drama is, to
say the least of it, very weak.
Edwin Browne is about to start for America,
and he desires to thank the members of the press
throughout Australia for their uniform kindness.
Edwin is a good actor. We wish him better luck than
he has had here. May he return some day and fill his
pockets.
A grand performance in aid of the Poe memorial
fund was to be given at Booth’s Theatre, N.Y., on 11th
Feb. It is intended that the memorial, which is to be
presented to the N. Y. Metropolitan Museum, shall take
the form of a bronze statue or bas-relief.
Ben. Farjeon and Barry Sullivan are on the
provisional Committee of the Falstaff; Club, which is
to have as its premises Evans’ Music Hall, &c. Amo<tt
the members of thecommittee are Henry Irving, G. V
Sala, and many other distinguished men.
The London critics consider that Alfred Tenny-
son’s two-act tragedy, “ The Cnp," produced recently
at the Lycenm Theatre, is better suited to the stage
than any of his previous plays, though .somewhat over-
weighted in the second act by long soliloques.
J. C. Rainer’s panoramas of the American and
Rnsso-Tnrkish Wars, under Harry Stanley's manage-
ment, opened at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Cape Town, on
Christmas Eve, to splendid business. Mr. Stanley goes
to the Diamond Fields after his Cape Town season.
Cole’s great Circus and Menagerie gave its first
performance in New South Wales, at Albury, on the
12th inst., and, as elsewhere, was greeted with over-
flowing honses both afternoon and evening. The
attendance for the two performances was something
over 9000.
Rossi’s fine duet, “ Tantnm Ergo,” for tenor
and basso, was sung with remarkable effect on Sunday
evening at St. Mary’s pro-Cathedral, by Messrs. J.
Hinchy and H. Leston. The latter is the well-known
comedian whose benefit takes place this evening
(Thursday) at the Queen’s.
The Kelly and Leon opera company had a very
successful season at Maryborough, whence they pro-
ceeded to Gympie. They return to Maryborough
shortly for a third season, and intend producing “ Pina-
fore " in style, with an extra orchestra, and a chorns
strengthened by local amateurs.
The Herr Bandmann-Louiso-Beandet Dramatic
Company re-appeared at the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin
(N.Z.), daring the race week, and drewimmense houses.
At latest advices the company were in Christchurch,
meeting with great success. The New Zealand tour
ought to turn out a profitable one.
Miss Josephine Deakin, the promising young
songstress now appearing with Mr. Williamson's
company at the Royal, is a daughter of the late Dr.
Deakin, who served as a staff-surgeon at the siege of
Lucknow—through which terrible ordeal Mrs. Deakin
went. Miss Daakin was born iu the Khyber Pass.
Lotti Wilmot is “ at it again.” She recently
struck at the editor of the Telegraph (a Napier, N.Z.,
journal) with a riding-whip in the street, saying,
“ That’s for the insult last Monday." The “insult” was
contained in a notice of her lecture on “ The Deyil,”
which stated that it was valueless and uninteresting.
Professor Miller, before leaving London, issued
challenges through Bell’s Life and the Sporting
Life, to all wrestlers and athletes, and deposited £5O
forfeit, which met with no response. Previous to leav-
ing America he deposited £2OO as forfeit with the New
York Clipper to-all wrestlers and athletes, which met
with the same fate.
The Australasian is rough on Mr. Dillon. It
says:—" On Thursday Mr. Dillon took his benefit, and
played Hamlet. It is a very remarkable Hamlet, which
no one interested in theatrical representations should
neglect seeing, for it includes nearly everything that
ought to be avoided. It is like those examples of bad
English which are put before boys and girls at school
to be corrected.
In “The World,” a successful melodrama now
running in London, the chief incidents are lively
enough. A ship is blown up; there is mutin j on board;
a raft is seen labouring in mid-ocean with dead and
dying men; the sick are rescued; a man is incarce-
rated in a lunatic asylum on a false certificate; a villain
who desires to compromise a woman’s honour meets a
just fate in tumbling down an hotel lift.
Herr Bandmann has fallen foul of the Christ-
church Press, and refused to admit the representative of
one of the morning papers to the theatre. The Herr has
made several attempts to initiate correspondence about
his acting, bnt, with one exception, the papers, it is
said, have refused his letters, and declined to begin a
system of free adverti ing. However, the journals give
great praise to the performances as a whole.
Prolonged death scenes, representing the results
of poison, are multiplying on the London stage. The
latest is Mr. Charles Coghlan’s exhibition of mortal
agonies in “ A New Trial,” aud Mr. Irving’s dying con-
tortious in “ The Cup.” If this sort of thing continues
much longer, the hospitals will be thrown open as places
of public entertainment. Then Mile. S ira Bernhardt,
Madame Modjeska, Mr Irving, Mr. Coghlan, and the
rest will find their occupations gone.
It is absut as certain as anything can
well be that Mrs. Langtry intends to go upon the
stage, in consequence of alleged incompatibility of
household temperament. “ The Jersey Lily” has well
nigh completed arrangements to odorize in the Prince
of Wales’Theatre, London, in a play to be “fixed” for her
by F. C. Burnand. That she “ cannot play for sour
apples ” is the testimony of all who know her, hut that
she will “ draw like thunder " no one will venture to
deny.
Says a late Wanganui journal:—“ The success
of the performance at the theatre last night was marred
by a paiuful accident that befel Mr. Wilkinson, the
popular low comedian. He was dancing in his char-
acter of “Clorinda” near the footlights, when he un-
fortunately slipped. Finding he could not regain his
balance, he jumped over the footlights, and struck a
chair at the back of the violinist. Mr. Wilkinson was
mnch shaken and bruised by the fall, but returned to
the stage and finished the act.”
George Darrell, immediately on reaching San
Francisco, made an engagement to appear at the Bald-
win Theatre, where he has been playing with great
success in “ Back from the Grave.” The ’Frisco press
is very complimentary to George, and the Call, speak-
ing of him, says that “ this young gentleman, with his
alert manner, fine figure, quick eye, and veiled voice,
seems to have effectually dissipated a certain prejudice
long felt by San Francisco managers and the public
against Australian actors.” How pleasant—and pro-
fitable —it is to be good-looking.
Joe Jefferson made his first appearance on the
stage when a little more than three years of age, as the
child in “Pizorro ” On that occasion his aunt, Mrs.
Chapman, was playing Cora. In that part, referring to
the child, she says to her husband, Alonzo: “ Sweet
child; he will speak soon." As she said this, the infant
Joe, not at all awed by the peculiarity of the situation,
walked towards the footlights, and, addressing the
leader of the orchestra, whom he knew, said: “Green,
why don’t you play the fiddle ?“ This “ break” in the
scene, which is one of the most sentimental on the
stage, as may well be imagined, created a roar e£
laughter in the audience which could not be controlled.
Miss Emilie Melville, when the mail left, was
playing “Nisida” at Bush-street Theatre, ’Frisco.
Says the Argon ant criiic:—“Nisida, the prima, donna , is
a part exactly like Franchette, except, that she has not
to go through so much of the opera in boy’s dress. I
do not know how many parts Miss Emilie Melville has
created. _ She has placed before my mind so many
pretty, piquant, graceful, or tender pictures, that when
I pass her upon the street she seems to be a bright
character, just stepped out of a bright opera. Audit
is a tribute, after all, to her, although it is one that
should be tendered much oftener, that to the two-hun-
dred-aud-forty-first performance, almost- consecutive, of
the company, a gala audience should have assembled.
I don’t think there can be a better Nisida in America.”
Onr correspondent at Auckland writes on Bth
March:—Grattan Riggs and company concluded their
season last with a “ ben.” to the star, the Irish drama,
“ Peep o* Day," being the entertainment submitted.
There was a fairly good house, but the piece was man-
gled in a most wretched manner, especially the last act.
Riggs did payable business daring his stay, the stalls
and pit being well filled nightly At present, the
theatre is occupied by Thompson’s Confederate Diorama
—the old well-worn American “show”—and immense
honses are being drawn, attributable to the liberal gift
distribution, that bug-bear of all legitimate “pros."
Lieut. Hermann also assists with his ventriloquism
Lydia Howarde, Harry Power, and company are play-
ing iu the Waikato district, with varied success
The Simonsen Opera Company open here the first week
in April. They ought to do big business, as there ore
several old favourites in the troupe.
This is from a Christchurch (N.Z.) paper re one
of the pieces Mrs. Walter Hill’s Company produced in
that town: —“ The Dramatic Company closed their
season with ‘ Lizzie Lyle, or the Flower Makers of
Finsbury’—a drama having in it all the interest of a
Family Herald or London Journal novel. There is a
disinterested hero, possessing, however, indifferent
notions of honour and honesty, and there is a heroine,
perhaps two heroines, falsely accused of theft. Besides
these there are a couple of villains—one a Frenchman,
and the other a Bill Sikes sort of man. There is a
policeman—a half comic, half sentimental character—
and there are the requisite subordinate accessories.
For incidents, there are a trial in court, a signing oi a
will, a burglary, a struggle in the dark, a couple of
murders—one by stabbing, the other bv poisoning—a
thrusting of the hero into a cellar, a disguising of two
girls in male attire, and as a finale a pistolling of a
ruffian. By the way, the pistol on Saturday would not
go off ”
Harry Leston takes a benefit this evening
(Thursday) at the Queen's Theatre, when the great
Irish play, “Robert Emmett,” will be produced, and
followed by an entertainment of varied character, in-
cluding feats of swordsmanship by Professors Miller
and Meenan, comiqne impersonations by Mr. Fred.
Leston, a comic duet by Mr. Greville and Miss Foley,
and other items. Mr. Leston is such a favourite with
the Sydney pabiic, that a bumper house is certain to
greet him. The bills announce “ farewell benefit,” but
we leam it is not Mr. Leston’s intention to leave
Sydney for some time, the farewell relating to the close
of the season under the direction of Mr. J R. Greville,
who may be said to have been the mentor of this rising
young comedian, and under whose management Mr.
Leston first made his bow before an audience, thirteen
years ago, at Melbourne. As a delineator of Irish
character, Mr. Leston has few equals, and as a dialect
actor he bears a great reputation throughout the
colonies.
The Antiquated Maiden is nothing if not
original. How patronisingly the old lady dropped that
prince of good fellows, E. A. Sothern, with a “ bio-
graphical ” of some half dozen lines last Saturday!
Her startling and novel theory is that Sothern, outside
of his “ Dundreary,” was only a walking gentleman !
What about his “ David Garrick ?” He showed splendid
staying powers in that part. But it is a notorious fact
that he did not need t# trot out his force, as Dundreary
amply sufficed to gild his gingerbread. Not for nought
did he go through the mill in the English provinces.
As well class Jennie Lee, J. S. Clarke, Joe Jefferson,
W. J. Florence, and a host of other single-part people
among the “walking” duffers. A wrinkle to the
Ancient Damsel : Write out iu your best large-text
hand the old copy-book maxim —De mortuis nil nisi
bonum, and fix it over your wash-stand, so that you may
read it every morning. Poor Sothern ! A higher
authority than the Hunter Street Meat Preserver
has said of him. Nihil tetigit quod non ornavit.
Keogh (‘‘Cuff”) ia coming to Sydney, to the
Queen’s. Very few people have heard; the story about
the horse that Keogh once used in “ Mazeppa.” This
is how the yarn is told by Edwin Browne :—“ On one
occasion, while the company where playing in a small
town iu the Victorian provinces, only one horse could
be found, and such a horse! Keogh, not wishing to
disappoint the audience, arranged for the hire of the
equine, a big draught gelding, and as he was such a
sorry looking beast for stage purposes, got Ned Huntly,
the scenic artist, to paint him. With the aid of the
whip, &c., he was brought on to the stage in “ style.”
Mazeppa was tied to his back, and he ‘ took' the runs
amidst the enthusiastic plaudits of the audience. The
stage being very small it was necessary to put the steed
into the back yard until he was needed for the following
act. In the interim a terrible shower came up
and washed the paint off the ‘ animile,’ which on its
re-appearance was greeted with hisses. Keogh went iu
front of the curtain (a thing he seldom does ?) and thus
addressed the surging multitude: * Ladies and gentle-
men, I am both pained and astonished at your conduct
to-night. When that Barbary courser first appeared
you greeted him with applause, and now you receive
him with hises. Why is this ? Have I not always tried
to hold the mirror np to Nature ? I know you will
all agree that I have. Now when this horse first ap-
peared he was fresh from the stables. Since that time
he has travelled hundreds of miles, swum rivers,
climbed mountains, and rolled in the mud. lam sure
you are all sensible enough to know that no horse in
the world could do that and come back looking as well
as when he went out.” (Great applause.) Then Keogh
retired, to slow music.
PEPPER AND SALT.
About the meanest man I know is a certain
contractor here, who hired two masons last week to
chip stones at the rate of Bs. per diem. Being short-
handed, however, he persuaded them to go aloft, and
work a derrick which was elevated about 150 feet above
the footpath. Pay-day having arrived, these sons of
toil noticed, “ with a soorprise which bordurred upon
con-sfcur-na-shun,” that they only received 455., instead
of 485., and upon enquiring as to the why and where-
fore, were coolly informed that 6d. a day was deducted
for the splendid view which they had had of our harbour
scenery. One of the misguided men was unpatriotic
enough to say, “ D the harbour scenery ! ” And
when the other stone-bruiser had done with that con-
tractor’s face it looked like a bill-sticker’s wall after a
heavy shower had played on it.
A distinguished foreigner, who is a sort of a
duke in bis own land, and the part-proprietor of a rag
and bone factory also, says, “ He hef mooch difficult in
ze clutch of ze Inglis toong,” and he will be particu-
lar! v grateful to anyone who will inform him what the
youthful vendors of a certain journal mean when they
daily yell, “ 'Ere’s yer ‘ suck-in eedeeshun Even’
NoozeI" We have a delicacy in explaining this item
ourselves. It may mean that the second edition of a
journal not unknown to fame is at the service of all
who are fortunate enough to hold the magic coin, or it
may be taken in a still more literal sense, and convey
the impression that the miserable purchaser will be
suck but hold; let us not be considered greedy, and
let us generously stand aside whilst some other am-
bitious journal chalks up its name on the blazing scroll
of libel.
Nice weather we’re having, isn’t it ? Thunder-
storms for breakfast, ice pancakes and rain-water soup
for dinner, dust storms for tea, and sheet lightning to
go to bed with, make up one of the most miscellaneous
atmospheric programmes I have seen since the last
deluge. Mr. Astronomer Eussell, however, doesn’t
seem to be more than two-tenths satisfied with the
manner in which the artillery officers discharged their
somewhat onerous duties because, as he carefullly
points out, “ although the lightning was most vivid, the
thunder was by no means in keeping with it.” Mr
McElhone will probably take the matter in hand at
once, and after successfully proving the official in
charge of the thunder supply to be a perfectly incompe-
tent, intemperate individual, and a sort of three-star
vagabond in general, pitchforked into a position by the
interested favouritism of a venal Ministry, he will then
proceed to pelt mud at the whole department, and
finally retire, with his usual brilliant success —defeated
by a majority of 150. As we will probably have more
weather shortly, I would suggest a slight change in the
bill-of-fare, and I believe I am perfectly safe in saying
that a few sun-strokes scattered around Macqnarie-
street, accompanied by a deluge of corned beef sand-
wiches and Oriental pickles around the poorer neigh-
bourhoods, would be received with every manifestation
of delight, and do much to restore public confidence in
the present Ministry.
Onr sporting friends will be pleased to hear that
the final deposit for the foot-race between the Hon.
John Lucas and the Hon. George Thornton was made
at the Assembly rooms last night. The race will be
run on the Ist of April, the distance being three times
round Alderman Pitt’s big straw hat, and the com-
petitors will start at 6 a.m., in order that one of them
at least will pass the winning post before the time-
keeper’s ticker points to midnight. Sir John Robertson
trains Mr. Lucas at the Coffee Palace, whilst Dan,
O’Connor does the like office for George at Uhde’s.
Considerable excitement was caused this morning by
the report that an attempt had been made to “ get at ”
the former well-known ped. by placing anti-fat in his
soup, and oyster.shells in his boots; but we believe
-there is not the slightest foundation for the rumour,and
that it is merely a Ministerial trick to rig the betting.
At a private trial, we hear, Mr. Thornton ran 240 yards
inSh. 59 m., and only sat down twice to re-fill his
bellows. A close contest is expected, and sleeping
accommodation will be made on the ground for
visitors.
She was a lovely maid from the Point de Potts
(that sounds more refined than the old title), and as
she lightly skipped into a ’bus near Punch's, her bright
refulgent charms smote the too-snsceptible heart of
Alphonso Ji ikius, with a smote like unto that from the
heels of a circus jackass. In an instant his schemes
were laid. He would follow up, and woo his heart’s
enslaver even at the cost of life, -and a ’bus ticket. Two
seconds later, and he was at his lady’s feet; they had
the whole of the licensed hearse to themselves, and long
ere the sonorous hoofs of its animated crow-roosts
struck the marble streets of Woollootnooloo, the happy
pair were revelling up to their ears in all the ecstatic
bliss of their maiden love. For years Alphonso had
sighed for Maude, but faltering tongue refused to tell
what his fond heart felt; and now Mande, overcome by
the presence of a princely suitor clad in patent leather
boots and a black moustache, gave herself wholly up to
the intoxication of this celestial joy, and as her fair
head left its track on Alphonso’s clean shirt, she lifted
tip her radiant orbs to his, and positively kicked with
fond delight. They had a healthy time of it, until
the 'bus reached Dan. Robinson’s hotel, and here
they were joined by a dumpy, vulgar-looking, rtd-faced
little woman, armed to the teeth with parcels, and she
had hardly topped down on her seat before she ex-
claimed : “ Why, goodness gracious. Doodle, however
did you get away from the bank so soon ! Lor’! —but
I’m glad I met you. I nearly bust me blessed biler a
luggin’ up this ’ere perambylatur and these duds for
Johnnie, and parygoric for baby, and ’eaven knows
what else; but I’ll get yon to carry the perambylatur,
and the cockatoo cage, and dried apples. An’, do you
know, Doodle, I’ve been down to ole Mrs. M'Googirty’s,
an’ I tole her straight I’d hev to send you down to
bring ’ome the washin’ in fuchir, becos her kids are so
orful careless —yes —and now your’e getting home early,
Doodie, I think we’ll fix up that stove, and give the
kitchen a coat of whitewash.” During the whole of
this chat, Doodie remained as silent and still as a baked
potato, and when his awful, lawful wife reached over
to wipe a violet-powder smudge from off his classic
nose, Maude rushed out of the car, and gave the pair
one look from her flashing eyes that would have set fire to
a wet bag of guano And the heart of Alphonso was filled
with unutterable woe as Mrs. Alphonso looked out, and
said: “ Puts on jam, don’t she, Doodie ? An’, after all,
it’s only a ninepenny pompadour skirt.”
On Monday morn, the glad sun. rose in all its
brilliancy, and casting its glittering beams on the
second-hand books in the second-hand baskets of the
second-hand shop of Lindsay, it lit up, with effulgent
rays, the bulky form of a torn but respectable copy of
one of old Sam. Johnson’s Dictionaries. On Monday
night, a masked and muffled figure was seen to glide
from the office of a Pitt-street journal, aud stride with
silent step past the shop of Lindsay aforesaid. On Tues-
day morn, that, book was gone; and, on Tuesday night,
the Twilight Twaddler informed its 25,000 readers
that the “ disintegrated London Comedy Co. is likely
to be re-united, and its exfoliated members welcomed
back to assist in an unprecedented career of one stupend-
ous round of unparalleled success.” Now, exfoliated is
good; in fact, for Pitt-street, we might quote Goethe,
aud say it is “ veradahmgoot,"—but the question which
exorcises the public mind at present is, “ What became
of the man in the mask aud old Lindsay’s dictionary P’
And so Mr. Circus-proprietor Cole says “ the
days of pads are past ” does he ? Let him wait till the
Pantomime season blooms again,—and, after gazing on
the marvellous, statuesque, symmetry of our baUet-
queens’ unmentionables, let him then polka round and
as t what’s the price of saw-dust. About this time his
official utterance will be of some weight, and we will be
glad to hear what he thinks of pads in esse and pads in
posse. Personally, wo admire the posse ones, especially
when their decorative charms take the semblance of
barbers’ poles and coloured railroad sections.
I have lately observed with much Christian joy
that onr aesthetic, noble-minded cabmen have taken,
with evident delight to the simple, but edify-
ing game of marbles. This shows they are good
after all at the bottom, and it also proves they
can at times relax their gigantic intellects, aud descend
from the elevated pinnacles of “three up," and tract
reading, to the innocent amusement of their chee-ild-
hood’s happy days. This is indeed a blessed thought,
and I know of no other spectacle so calculated to make
the angels weep for joy as the sight of an intelligent,
laxge-souled, honest cabman indulging in the harmless
pastime of “big ring,” after he has just succeeded in
GEMS FROM GORDON.
Cito Pede Preterit [?]tas.
We have do wish to exaggerate
The worth of the sports we prize.
Some toil for their church, and some for their state.
And some for their merchandise;
Some traffic and trade in the city’s mart.
Some travel by land and sea.
Some follow science, some cleave to art.
And some to scandal and tea;
And some for their country and their queen
Would fight, if the chance they had,
Good sooth, ’twere a sorry world, I ween.
If we all went galloping mad;
Yet if once we efface the joys of the chase
From the land, and out-root the Stud,
Good-bye to the Anglo-Saxon race !
Farewell to the Norman blood !
*******
Thus the measur’d stroke, on elastic sward.
Of the steed three parts extended,
Hard held, the breath of his nostrils broad.
With the golden ether blended ;
Then the leap, the rise from the springy turf.
The rush through the buoyant air.
And the light shook landing—the veriest serf
Is an emperor then and there!
Finis Exoptatus.
“ Question not, but live and labor
Till yon goal be won,
Helping every feeble neighbour,
Seeking help from none;
Life is mostly froth and bubble.
Two things stand like stone.
Kindness in another’s trouble.
Courage in yonr own."


•charging a “new chnm” fare seven-and-six for a jaunt
from Sc. James’ Church to the railway. Let us hope
our festive Jehus will be long spared to grace our stand,
and as the poet Campbell says,
“ Waive, cabby, all thy scruples waive.
And charge with all thy devilry 1 ”
In point of natural advantages and beauty of
position I fancy the pleasant little marine suburb of
Hunter’s Hill is more highly favoured than any other
about Sydney. Seated on a well-wooded eminence
between two streams it offers its residents on one
hand the pleasure of an exhilarating drive, afford-
ing unequalled views of the country in the neighbour-
hood, while on the other the picturesque stretch of
water in the viciiiicy seems ever inviting the passage of
the pleasure-boat’s prow It was here in a light skiff
not many years ago, that Edwin and his Angelina
paused through the decline of a calm evening in
January—the warm live month of lustre” —to watch
the varying effects of the fai ing sunlight as it gleamed
upon the glancing wave. Gently rising and sinking
with the undulations of the stream the beat rested
ightl jon its glassy surf 10s, while the subdued susurrus
the overhanging foliage, as the breeze wandered
among theru-tlin, lease*, blend-d in soft and soothing
monotone with the ripp'ing plash of the wavelets
that swept and broke against the resting oar. In the
distance the spires of the city were dimly visible
through the purple mists of evening, like those of some
fair old town rife with romantic legends, nestling
Venioe-llke upon the gleaming bay; whi'e in a dreamy
contemplative mood Edwin |saw, mirrored in the
deep blue eves of his beloved, the pellucid deep of the
placid stream —deep calling unto deep—reproduced in
all the tranquil beauty of its calm repose. It was a
scene steeped in the golden glory of the sunset,
the peace of which the sound of conversation
would disturb, and which rather invited a state of
quiescence and silent enjoyment. This probably
would have continued indefinitely had not the bung
come out of the bottom of the boat.
Late arrival frorh La Belle France to bis cousin,
Monsieur Patrick James,Mulcahy. Patsey agrah ! I
was jiSt offer’d a job in th’ corpurashin thare forninst
ns ;isit a daciut kind av wurk I dunno ? ” Monsieur
Mulcahy: “Oh : begorra! Dinuis but it’s th’ moast
illigint wurk ye iver sot yer eyes on; shure y'iv nothin’
at all to do, only poake a few pibhles about wid a sthick,
an’ thin sit down an’ discoorse polytics, and if the
Sooperiutiudint comes along ye jist rap ’im on th’ head
wid yer shuvvil av he gives auv av hiz dam chat t’ ye."
** Well, it’s meself can do the’ disooorsin, Pathrick,” re-
plied Dinnis, “ but I’m too dilicit to poake the pibhles
about; dy’e know. I think I’ll jine th’ foorce, I‘m told
it’s a mighty clane au’ jintilmiuly ockeypashnn.”
“ Thrue for ye,” says Pathrick. And a week later the
pair don their helmets, chuckle, and warble, “We
run ’em in; we are the bold Gendarmes.”
Tall language is now the order of the day, and
the number of telegraph clerks and compositors who are
taking up shares in untimely graves has increased
about per cent. The latest, trouble comes in the
shape of the words pour •parleys, which the above-
mentioned buccaneers will insist on spelling, poor
purler-—they being evidently under the impress!on
that the phrase either refers to the bad houses at some
of our public shows, or the limited decorations of many
of their own homes. It is just about time we let up on
this absurdity, and as pourparlers simply means ‘‘old
women’s chat,” there’s no necessity to dig no either
the French or Chinese languages to mystify the public
over it. If w really must have a foreign tongue to
.flavor telegiams. however, let ns go for the Welsh, and
boldly state that European powers will shortly hold an
“ lilfwphgdtmqdwallyngfptn,” and by this means allay
all public fears, and satisfy all morbid curiosity.
The simple stanzas which follow have a purpose
in their simplicity. They are written for the instruc-
tion of the tew persons of limited intelligence to whom
they apply. We might have clothed our subject in
more poetic garb—indulged in metaphor and epigram ;
yet we feel that had we adopted the ornate —even while
employing the bitterest satire—the subjects of our
poem are so obtuse, that they would in all probability
fail to see the drift of onr verses. Without farther
premise or apology, then, we will call our little poem—
A correspondent who signs himself “A.
Maniacke,” and who has evidently dark and traitorous
designs on The Bulletin, sends along the following:
—“Melancholy backsideut.— During the hailstorm on
Tuesday a horse ran into the Cambridge Club Hotel to
partake of a stirrup cup. and Jim Rainford’s horsepi-
tality. Jim, being in a hosstere mood, said, “Neigh ;’’
upon which tbe horse began nagging, and remarked he
had’nt had a lit to eat for two days, but would put up
with a whisk-ey straight, or bran-dy. This being re-
fused be at once began to pommel the waiter, and
finally kicked him over the curb, and after informing
Ma r e-y, the barmaid, that he was well reared up, and
on his bridle tour, he began to give her a wink-er too,
and freely indulged in horse play and doubtful chaff.
Acting ou the spur of the moment, Mare-y immediately
fetched him a crupper over the head with a de-canter
that would reflect credit on Larry Poal-ey, after which
the horse cooled down, and having told a moving tail
he snaffled a long beer, and trotted round the corner.
Saddle be that horse’s fate." We will cheerfully give
£lOOO reward to anyone who will bring us Mr.
Mauiacke’s head on a clean plate before the Ist April.
We receive tons like the above every weak, and yet
people ask why we don’t get fat and teach at Sunday
School.
The plucky offer of 100 of our “painted
soldiers;” (vide Sir H. P.) to blow the Baers to Halifax,
and chop what are left Into oookshop hash has had such
an inspiriting effect on the whole force that it now takes
seven clerks to reply to all the petitions received from
other squads wh > pray that they may be allowed to go
where glorv waits them by the first steamer sailing for
that very desirable port. Only yesterday the United
Armies of the H iwkesbury Mud Heads, the Parramatta
Pukes, and the 52 id Penrith ” Sojur Ants ” numbering
i* all 14 str mg ; (including 8 captains and a drum and
life band) waited on the Colonial Secretary, and after
tying tbeir different companies up to a fence to keep
t hem from falling down,. r deserting to the nearest pub,
♦he 8 captains advanced and simultaneously read the
following prayer Tire Hon. The Kerlonyil Seokrttary
and others. Sir—Greeting ! —also wishing yon the
compliments of the season. We the undersigned Allied
Armies of N. B. Wales hearing that the Russian war is
now at its m .st important crisis; that the bones of our
butchered country nen now bleach under the Mus-
covites fiery -un on Crimea's bloody plain, whilst Inker-
anan’s death dealing guns breathe slaughter and des-
truction ou every side, and the flag which braved a
thousand years is now stricken to the earth and trodden
by the beetle crushers of the Czars barbaric hordes,
earnestly beseech your Imperial Highness to allow ns
to offer our valuable aid to old England’s cause ; to rout
her brutal enemies, and to restore once more her time-
honoured name and prestige. Trusting Her Most
Gracious Mijesty may see fit to accept our most
efficient services. We remain, sir, yours affectionately.
The Allied Troops of N.S.W. P.S. —“We could all
start on six mouths’ notice, but we require twelve
months’ pay in advance, four suits of clothes and a new
bngil. A fresh supply of wepins is also much needed;
our swords being very much injured diggin’ post boles,
and our guns at present are apt to kill six men behind
them for every one in front.” Then they thanked the
Colonial Secretary for his patient hearing and withdrew.
Next morning the majority of them pleaded not guilty
to the charge of being drunk and disorderly, but they
loaned their ten shillings to the public fund just the
same as if they had had the advantage of an AI jury.
Scene : Outside the Heads. Dramatis Personae:
A Pleasure Party. Narse to young Mistress, who fancies
she already sees the “ gates ajar “ Oh, Missis, do hold
little Adolphus, please; I’ve sucka sinking in my sto-
mach.” Young Mistress: “Ja*, indeed I couldn’t;
I’ve such a rising now in mine." And, then, “ there
came a burst of thunder sound—Adolphus, where wis
he ?” Ask of the two ladies who now with fragments
filled the sea. That’s Mrs. Homans’ account of the
battle, mind, —not ours.
V.
A Far Northern Wedding.
An esteemed Par Northern correspondent sends
us the following:—“Some of the immigrants
who arrive at our largest northern port, Towns-
ville, are drafted off to the smaller ports, and a few
weeks ago there came to Port Douglas, an assortment
of maidens fair, who for the most part were under set-
tled engagements to residents. Amongst these was
one particularly strong minded girl of 22 years, hailing
from London, who declined to engage herself for or-
dinary wages in Port Douglas, and said she intended to
try her fortunes in the tin mines in the far west. In
due course she arrived at Blaukville, introduced herself
to the lane lady of the best “hotel” and was imme-
diately engaged as barmaid at a good salary. For a
time she went upon the northern principle of loving her
customers all round, and said that her religious convic-
tions had a free* bought tendency. A young digger of
Hibernian descent “ made straight" for her, and
on evenings, at the hotel, assisted the fair one in
singing the litest London ditties, in which she was
well posted. The result was a settled determination on
the part of both to get married as soon as possible. But
“ the course of true love,” <feo., and many difficulties
cropped up. Hebe had no money; neither bad her
lover. All the latter possetfed was his hard-worked pair
of hands, and money earned with them went very
rapidly, for courting in a shanty was expensive.
Aayhow, a priest came along one day, and when to him
the young fellow revealed the facts of the case it was
promptly pointed out that the fairone wasn’t a Catholic
But she as promptly said she would become one—that
she’d always had a leaning that way. bhe was accord-
ingly received into the church, and after the ceremony,
performed in very primitive style had been gone through,
she went and asked the landlady for her fortnight s
wages, which were refused on two grounds—firstly that
as the landlady’s trade was increasing it wouldn’t be
fair to leave the shanty without a barmaid: and seoondly
that it would be absurd for any one to get, married so
suddenly, with no money, with only a tent to sleep in,
and with no cooking utensils barring a sheath knife, a tin
billy and a pannikin. The landlady told her that if she
only waited a while she'd see plenty of better men with
lots of money. But in spite of all this the girl pluckily
left a barmaid’s life and on tbe morrow got married by
the priest. A wedding ting couldn’t be bought on the
field, so one was lei.t by a friend, and the priest him-
self—more power to him I —came out with true Irish
generosity, and presented the couple with half-a-sov-
ereign, remarking that there couldn't be much luck in a
wedding where there wasn’t a bottle of whiskey to
drink the bride’s health with. Che couple seem to be
very happy and contented with their lot. They still
stick to the calico tent, around which the young wife
has since placed a shading of boughs; and the bride-
groom no longer goes to the shanty, but does his sing-
ing at home. Since this marriage an active publican
has sent an order to Sydney for six colonial girls—
musn’t be too young or too anxious to get married, but
must be able to “ string the boys on ” a little longer.
The “Shoalhaven Argus” to the Hescue.
Persons fortunate enough to live mare than half a
mile from that thriving burial ground called Shoal-
haveu are pr ibably ignorant of the existence of a oar-
tain literary rag which is known to a select* few as the
Shoalhaven Argus. That such a masterpiece of jour-
nalistic imbecility dues axist is now. however, p'aoea be-
yond a daubt as we have at considerable pains and ex-
pense secured a copy of the last i-sue. With the excep-
tion of being badly printed on bad paper with bad ink,
and being badly written by extremely bad grammarians,
the Argus is a most useful little weekly, especially in a
small township like Shoalhaven, where the tallow
chandler's means of securing waste paper is of roune
very limited. The editor is a genius, and consider ng
that it is but fourteen short years since the sole stock-
in-trade of the Argus consisted of a ease of damag d
type, an American broom, and a window blind, and ihat
it now revels in all the Oriental luxury of two bottom,
less chairs, a portrait of Brigham Young, and a jug
holding about two quarts, he has rt ason to be
proud of his literary success, and so self-con.
scious of his own worth as to be able to stand
boldly forth and ask of his fellow townsmen “ what
about that suit of cloth s, and testimonial ?” As a
specimen of the News’ int-slinring abilities, we clip
the following from a trenchant aiticle on the “ Lib* rty
of the Press:”—“ The Press has, during the la t two
years, been attempted to be despised and put down by a
few who ha> « had a little power—very little—but t.he •
never, no ah will, in the days of judges or magistrates.
These persons who attempt to gag the Pre-s are the
crouching individuals who feel its power most, and
who, through their blunders and misdeeds, tremble like
an aspen leaf under the sting of its lash. The liberty
and integrity of the Press are the bulwarks of society,
to uphold which we for one will stand boldly forth, and
like a second Kosciusko, or a Bratus, or a M’Elhone,
will raise our clarion voice, and use our God-like
power to crush the presumptuous strength, and to for
ever silence the blatant boasting of this new Goliath,
judicial Ignorance"! We will never never nevah shrink
when danger threatens, and we alone, and single-
handed, will cleanse our legal Augean stables of the
seething, pntrid filth which now completely swamps
them. We ask no other journalistic aid. We will
crush the viper under our gigantic heel; we will prove
that we are made of sterner stuff, so come on. Sir
Ja'i es, and curs’d bo he who first cries—‘hold!
enough.’ ”
“PS.—We have,to apologise to the solitary gentle-
man who subscribes to our paper for not beiug quite up
to our usual mark this week, bat the fact is the whole
of our editorial arrangements has been completely
upset, and the whole of our official routine thoroughly
disorganised by the scandalous, fiend-like conduct of
our ragged-school apprentice, aged 1\ who not only
absconded on Thursday last, but actually ate up all our
paste, and stole our official scissors! I And ye’, we
have no redress. This doubly-dyed miscreant has not
only cast a gloom ou our one subscriber’s once happy
home, and knocked our own grocery credit as high as
the proverbial kite, but he actually roosts on the fence
opposite and jeeriugiy asks if wa want “a smart,
frightful accident reporter, or a cove wot knows all
about the Basnto wax and prize pumkins. He does this
to onr very teeth, and yet Ber-ritish law protects
him 111 If we can raise another bag of flour we will
re-appear (D.V.) on Saturday.”
Holy Howls.
Religious matters would seem to be lively in Banana-
land. At the Lutheran Church, Brisbane, two rival
parties, each headed by a preacher, contend for
precedence, and twenty cross summonses have been
issued. Our holy people, though less demonstrative
than the Brisbane folk, are decidedly more venomous.
Their respective “rags” are a caution. By far the best
of them (from a literary point of view, irrespective of
sect) is the Freeman; by far the worst (although the
funniest) is the Protestant Standard. As a specimen
of the Howl's style of journalism, we are pleased to
quote the following A correspondent at Hinton
bewails the conduct of Protestant men spending their
time at Popish houses public or private, and in too
much intimacy with Papal girls. He alleges that some
of these men are Orangemen, and even Purplemen.
One case he quotes of a young man, au Orangeman,
being baptised by a Popish priest, through the influence
of one of those girls. We dp hope things are not so
bad as this. At all events if they are so at Hinton, we
trust that township is an exception. The lodges are
more and more careful about whom they admit. The
young Samsons had better beware of the Popish
Delilahs.” There are not many countries in which
this style of thing would be tolerated; and we have it
on the best authority that the majority of Orange-
men, although they subscribe fourpence weekly, are
ashamed of the paper, and refuse to recognise it as
their representative organ. A glance over the Standard
is instructive, from the fact that it gives one an idei
how bid a journal can pos-ibly be. In the first place,
it is abominably “read,” and tbe grammar throughout
is execrable. The composition of the so-colled leaders
—which are neither more nor less than tirades of filthy
abuse—would shame a workhouse school-boy of ten
years. The expressions used by the scrawling bigots
are appalling in their shameless coarseness—so much so
that no father of a family would dare deliver the
Howl unread to his daughters. This, we take
it, is a deep and lasting reproach to any journal; but
how much deeper and more lasting to a paper that
pretends to be religious, and whose conductors are
clergymen who should be endowed with “ Christian
forgiveness,” “charity,” and "gentleness of heart I”
Coarse abuse in journalism is ever a sign of feebleness
and ignorance, but in the holy men who write in the
Standard it is a sign that they hive utterly mistaken
their vocations ns well. These “ rumbustioal ” parsons
cannot writo like gentlemen ; neither have they the
ability or scholarship to vary the blatant philippics in
which they weekly indulge. But no 1 Week after week
we see the same dreary stuff, the same slaughtered
grammar, the same stale old clippings, and tjie same
evidetces of incompetence and ‘‘bad form.” How a
paper like this can ha ve be' n so long allowed to, even in an
indirect manner, repre-cut so important a body as the
Orange society of New South Wales is a mystery we
cannot fathom. However, we have wasted enorgh
space ufO i the Holt Howl, and all we have to do now
is to take it by the tongs and pitch it into the dust-
hole.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Dr. Somerville has gone to Germany.
Mr. Thomas Spnrgeon is in New Zealand.
A Welsh Church is to be established in Sydney.
Bishop Barker left en roxde for Europe on the
10th inst.
A Young Women’s Christian Association will
soon exist.
Canon O’Reilly is better, and able to resume
duty partially.
Rev. Mr. Kimberley, of Waterloo, has left the
Congregational body.
Rev. Samuel Percival, formerly incumbent of
Bombala, has died in England.
On the 10th January the Rev. C. H. Spurgeon
celebrated his silver wedding.
Archbishop Vaughan will preach every Sunday
night during Lent at St. Mary’s.
The Y.M.C. A. hold their annual tea meeting at
the Protestant Hall on 15th March.
Rev. John H. Price has superseded the Rev.
D. D. Rutledge as incumbent of Wilcannia.
The Rev. Mr. Gray, Wesleyan minister of
Kempsey, has, we hear, joined the' Episcopalian body.
The American Christian pulpits are protesting
emphatically against the onti-Jewish agitation in Ger-
many.
Some Protestants of all denominations, notably
Rev. Mr. Faunce, helped the funds of the Yass R.C.
bazaar.
The Raikes Centenary Fund balance goes for a
circulating Sunday-school library, to be lodged at the
Y.M.C.A, rooms.
The Anglican Bishop’s chaplain, the Rev. E.
Dunstan, M. A., has been appointed an Honorary Canon
of All Saints’ Cathedral, Bathurst.
There are a good many clergymen who do not
like to see carringes—bound for other streets —pass
their churches on Sunday mornings.
At last monthly meeting of St, Mary’s pro-
Catuedral the sum of £79t 9s. 9d. was handed in by the
treasurers in aid of the Cathedral building fund.
Said Louis XIV to Massillon, the great French
preacher, *• When I hear other preachers, I go away
much pleased with them; but when I hear you I go
away displeased with myself.”
Strenuous efforts are being made to proceed with
the new Anglican Cathedral at Grafton. One gentle-
man is lending £KXIO at a low rate of interest; another
is giving £25 per year until the structure is completed.
The Pbbsbytekian continues its crusade
against Terpsichore, and quotes from the Sootherit
Cross, which says;—“ Let us have lectures, concerts,
penny readings, picnics, and social gatherings (tea-
mee ings, eh ?) but less of this abominable dancing.”
At a meeting of subscribers to the memorial
of the late Rev. E. Rogers, of Holy Trinity, Sydney,
the treasurer announced that the sum of £l4l Hs6d
had been received. The memorial will take the form
of a reredos, suitably inscribed, to be erected in the
Church.
From the annual report of the Anglican Church.
Scone, it appears that the premium of the policy of
insurance for £lOOO in the Mutual Provident Society,
on the life of a former incumbent, the Venerable Arch
deacon Child, has been regularly paid for 17 years: and
the policy, with accrued bonuses, was, at the last quin
quennial investigation, on 31st December, 1878, worth
£1315 10s 7d. It is “for the sole purpose of endowing
the parish, and of assisting to provide an income to au
succeeding clergymen at St. Luke’s, Scone.”
It ia a noteworthy fact that the Hebrews
of West Maitland have, though unsolicited, up to the
present time contributed more to the testimonial to
that long-suffering and earnest clergyman, the Rev. R.
T. Hills, than the Christian attendants at any one
church in the town.
For the maintenance of the general fund of the
Church of England in Victoria there was contritinted
last year £4373 Of this fifteen parishes gave £2234,
which leaves £2089 as the grand and munificent total
contributed by the remaining parishes in that rich and
prosperous colony 1
The members of All Saints’ Church, Gladstone
(N.Z.), have protested against the ritualistic leanings
of the Rev. J. Hobbs. A resolution that tho incumbent
be requested to resign was withdrawn on the under-
standing that the vestry would deal with the alleged
grievmces. Mr. H. has’ been lighting candles “only
for effect and illumination.”
The Sunday School Institute is to have its
annual meeting on the 22ud instant, in the Masonic
Hall. The committee propose to have a conference in
conjunction with tbe usual meeting romine. Two
papers will be read and declassed. The subject of the
first will be “ The Sunday-school Teacher; ” and the
second, “ The preparation of the Lesson.”
The minister of a certain Petersham church has
often exhorted his people (especially those whoareable
to read music) to procure hvxnn-books, &c., containing
the tunes in common use in the church. In compliance
with his request many of the congregation have obtained
these books, and now find that Sunday after
Sunday music that cannot be found in the ordinary
church hymn-book is introduced.
It would seem that Moody and Sankey, in the
vast labour attached to evaugelizing their fellow men,
cspeci diy such as reside in San Francisco, have te
leave some things undone, or in doubt at bar,. The
other night Moody was foil )weo t o his biddings by a
con' ert who wished to learn from him whether or not
it would be right, now that he profcsseii to bo a
Christian, to pay his whisky.bills I
Mrs. Hampton, the evangelist preacher, is
creating great excitement in the Thames district. New
Zealand. Her service in the open air on Sunday,
February 15, was atteuded by 3000 persons. All the
churches, with the exception of the Roman Catholic
and Church of Eugland, were closed. The speaker has
a wonderful command of language, speaking at times
one hour and a half, and never hesitating for a word.
Many person-*, especially women, at each service were
calling out excitedly and throwing themselves at the
feet of the speaker.
The Aubtrat.a stan inan article which everyone
should read, unmercifully lashes the Melbourne Pres-
bytery for its action in regard to the case of the Rev
Charles Strong. It says, among other things :—“ The
abiding realitv is not the written standards, which were
always shaped to meet a contemporary and passing
purpose, but the church itseh. And it is the church
not of the dead but of the living. It passes through
many changes in spite of the impotent struggles of its
MEachrans and Murdock Macdonalds, and outlives
them all. We have lived throngh mauy such im
this generation. We have seen the prosecuted
heretics of one decade stand as the bulwarks of ortho-
doxy in the nex% and still the tide of change sweeps ob
unceasing. That church has the best outlook for the
future which most resolutely refuses to petrify into
fixity but resolves to maintain unfettered its power to
conform and to amend and to develope, aud by so duing
to keep' uuchilled and unimpaired its relations with
the ever restless, ever changing mind of man.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
The picture of health —A painted woman.
Ready made—The girl waiting for an offer.
The favourite day for marriages in Paris is
Saturday.
Hymen comes when he is called, and Love whem
he pleases.
As a rule, women who do fancy-work don’t
fancy work.
The only secret a woman guards inviolable is
that of her age.
Sara Bernhardt took three hundred pairs of
French kid gloves with her to America. She never
wears the same pair twice.
PenstSe dun grammairien : “ Dans le mariage,
la femme commence par tutoyer son mari. Plus tard,
elle parle a la troisieme personne.”
Purple silk stockings, with a little gold arrow
embroidered on the ankle, look very nice indeed. So
you see we do know something about it.
Miss Margaret Lilian Florence Edgar has
secured the B.A. degree of New Zealand University.
Oughtn’t it to be S.A.—“ Spinster ” of Arts ?
A lady asked a seaman whom she met why a
ship was called “she.” The son of Neptune replied
that it was “ because the rigging costs more than the
hull.”
Mrs. Mountjoy, who was reproached for her
lack of sentiment, replied, “How can a woman have
any sentiment whose husband goes to bed six nights
out of the seven with his boots on ?”
Tall women are experiments of Nature that
have failed; short women are experiments th.it were
not properly begnn. It is the woman about five feet
four that Nature delights to whoop over.
Madame de P eat encore jenne et jolie,
quoique deux fois veuve. “La premiere fois,” disait-
elie, “je me suis marine par simple curiosity.” “Et la
seconde P” “Ah! la seconde—par gournmndise.”
The managers of the London Royal Academy of
Music have recently begged the students who use rouge
not to wipe their faces on tbe towels belonging to the
establishment, as the laundresses _find difficulty in •
removing the stains.
“ What do you suppose I’ll look like when I get
out of this ?” indignantly inquired a fashionably-dreused
young lady of the driver of a fearfully overcrowded car
tbe other day. “ A guod deal like crushed sugar, miss,”
And the lady stood up- and rode four streets further,
with the smile of an augel.
A lady informs a contemporary that she knows
another lady “ who has her arms lathered and shaved
from end to end, by a barber, once a week.” Now we
begin to understand how it is that female arms become
baldheaded at such an early age.
A man was muoh interested in a copy of this
paper that he read it upside down all the way, in a tram
oar from Elizabeth-street to Eedfern. We may as well
mention, incidentally, that there was a remar kably-
handsome girl sitting just opposite to him.
Madame de B , quoique d une maigreur
est encore pleine de pretentions. A pros
u-ie polka, elle minauda.it dans uu gronpe de jolies
femmes. “ Figurez-vous,” disait-elle. “que que le
vicomte a sent! ma poitrine centre la sienue, il est
devenu rouge oomme nue cerise!” “Panvre
tit Madame de R , “ un rien I’intimide 1”
In December last, a Brazilian nobleman, finding
that his wife had a lover, challenged, fought, and tilled
him. Then he cut off the head of the unfortunate
lover, brought it home, and handed it to his wife en a
salver. This reminds one of the story told by
Washington Irving in “Talesof the Alhambra” about
the heart of Raoul de Courcy.
When Eve brought woe to all mankind
Old A lam called her tree--nan,
But when she woo'd with love so kind.
He thou pronounced her ireo-man ;
But now with follies and with cares
Their hatband’s pickets trimming.
The ladies are so full of whims
That we’re bound to call them whim, men.
The latest novelty in New York is a dress
album A piece of every new dreae is carefully cut, and
gummed on one aide or a leaf, and the date attached.
Thus it forms a complete history of alady’s dresses front
season to season. This practice has at least, one thing
in its f i vour—however extravarant a lady may be, she
will evidently have something to show for it.
A LINGERING PARADOX.
DEDICATED TO THE PENNY BOM.
Hail, bine-eyed muse, with thy bewitching smile,
Thy flowing wealth of scintillating locks I
And grant ns thy sweet inspiration, while
We sing “A Penny Lingering Parados."
Imagine, then, a little sheet that’s writ
By men whose moral weight is not one ounce—
Dull exiles, who abuse make pass for wit.
And substitute tor logic feeole “ bounce.”
A “rag" nor representative nor wise
Its moving spirit a mere fabulist;
A “rag” the Herald people subsidize
By letting it -for pity’s sake—exist.
At first the champion of the “ sons of toil”
Long leaders for Prelection it did write;
It thought to grasp by this a regal spoil.
And gain the much-prized favour of—Tom White.
The merchants then to advertise declined ;
. A change in the “rag’s” policy was made —
(’Tis droll how quick the“boss”o in change his mind) —
And went in bolus-bolus for Free Trade !
They praised the Cath’lios with a treaoley pen.
But when the Protestants this did annoy.
They turned and buttered up the Orangemen,
And wrote th’ apotheosis of M'Ooy.
It lingers yet, this penny paradox,—
It hobbles, sick with journalistic gout;
Its doctrine’s whimperingly heterodox—
It keeps a live and manly paper out /
It lingers—huilt upon the shifting sands.
When it should be embedded in a rock.
Writes daily drivel no man understands.
And lives a by-word and—a laughing stock.
“J.I ” —A Palestinian Pastoral.
IN PROSE.
In a smiling town deep down in the sunny south east
of Palestine, there resided one who was the sheik of a
mud village. His Christian-name was Judas; his
surname, Iscariot—a derivation of “ His Carrots,” on
account of the redness of his locks. His hair, indeed,
was as red as Rignold’s, and although Judas had not
George’s skill at horsemanship, put him before a
charger of the period—piled with a mess of pottage—
and he would perform feats equal in their way to
Rignold s equestrianism. Well, this Judas was a most
diabolical villain. He not only always cheated at
euchre, but would “ sell ” any of his best friends even
without pieces of silver, but far more joyfully with
them. Ouoa, when loafing about the bars for -long
sherbets was played out, he went to Jerusalem, and
volunteered against the Crusaders. “ I wish to go to
♦he front,” said Judas to the Governor of the city,
flashing a flint musket and a copper scimitar; “will
you give me a free pass up the line p” “ You can serve
your country better by keeping a nigbt-schoi 1.” re-
joined the Emir. However, he borrowed a stranger’s
horse, and loaned an outfit from a store,
when the boss was away, and he went. When he got
there he went to the General commanding the Saracens
—Salad-oil or Salad-in, we forget which—and said “I
thirst for valour : give me a command.” The General
gazed at him thoughtfully, and said that he would be
of great service sneaking up to the enemy’s horse
fodder, and settiig it alight with his head. This not
suiting, he placed him as special guard over the bread
waggon, and Judas fulfilled his duties so well that none
of the soldiers were able to get anything to eat. When
the battle raged, Judas used to tuck himself into the
bread, where he could tuck it into himself without fear
of being struck by passing boulders. When peace was
declared (th'e Saracen army having died of starvation),
Judas made the acquaintance, in a. Jerusalem sherbet-
saloon, of the PM of the district, one Pontius
Pilate. Esq., who bad been appointed to the post be-
cause his brother had always voted with the Ministry.
Weil, they had a drunk or two together, and
[This has gone far enough. Who knows now but that
we shall receive notice of action from Judas Iscariot’s
solieitor? However, in our next issue we intend
T?. another dead man. His late Majesty George
IV.—Ed. 8.l


Public Companies
C
OMMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY
SYDNEY.
OF
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £575,000. Reserve Fund, £580,000.
Directors :
Kichard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy -Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq. ; J. E. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johuson and ScarveH.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— Qeorge-street, Sydney
T, A. Dibbs, Manager; P. N. Burt. Accountant; T. B.
Gadeu, Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Hay market,, Goorge-street South, and
Oxi'ord-street.
London Office —39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; P. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales. —Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayuey, Bomoala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Camp bell town, CanuonDar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coouamble, Coctamon Ira
Ondal, Duhbo, Duugog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Lanes, Ooulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, luverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah ( Tweed fiiver), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Paries,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoa.’naven, Singlet-u, Tamworth, Taree,
Turn barnmba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawaug, Warren, Wellington. Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Yass,
Toung. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane. Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia The Bank ot south Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand,
Agencies betond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchesteb : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland. ■ The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco: The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Naoionale do Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co,
India. China and Singapore: The Chartered Bank of
India. Australia and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ohyi.on : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu: Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed placds or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures ; acts
tor its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the Colonies; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, |syduey.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq,
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
SffRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Eesident Secretary.
The intercolonial life and fiee
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEOEGE-
STEEET.
Capitol, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049,
Dirbctors :
Sir P. A. Jennings. K C M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Younv, J P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, E-q., M.P. 1 Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Ruble, Esq.
T. H. SmPh, Esq , M.P.
LI FE DEPAR I’ME N T. — No entrance or medical fees
*r other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FlhE DEPARTMEN i’.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON B>» TH FIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS A NY Office m the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BRAT.
Secretary.
INDUSTEIAL & PROVIDENT PEEMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight ptr cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per < e it. and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager,
E
riXCELSIOE LAND INVESTMENT AND
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sell* Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Ba’ance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 14bs. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
atreet. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Atlas foundry and engineeeing
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydne\ .Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron ana Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm arc
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boiler.-,"Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheopwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metaL
Public Companies
T
HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY..
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BT ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 167&
Paid-up Capital ...£360.000
Reserve Fuud £115,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Ho*. Wtp Bnsby, M L.C.
Hon. Philip Gulley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. CoUeu, Esq.
MANAGER :
F. A. A Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allan,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
RONDOS BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated advances made against wool and.
Other produce shipped to England for sale.
CORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE LNSUR-
J ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Eiaks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO..
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STREET,
SIDNEY.
mHK NATIONAL MUTUAL FIRE
I ASSOCIATION OF A USTK aLASIA (Limited).
Established 1869.
The only Life Office in the Australian colonies which
has been conducted on PURELY MUTUAL PRIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Bxvwu and Co.), Chairman.
D G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Bidduiph, and Alsop).
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made by the Association
belong* to the policyholders, and is divided among them
every I'HKEE YEARS. The bonuses declared hav®
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY F. FRANCIS, Resident Secretary.
AG. C H U R C H W 0 O D„
• 147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
WH . ARIE L L,
• PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
<343 and 345 Kent-strkbt, near Kiko-stkeet.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
E. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Ben craft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow * Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria T< iletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 315 RENT-STREET, near King-street.
ADORN YOUR BUDROQ.VIS bv purchasing
from THE CO-OP. CHEAP DRAPERY HOUSE.
Everything neoe-sary to SURROUND 'J HE HOUSE
WITH COMPORT and yet consistently with STRICT
ECONOMY. The Hotpehald DRAPERY SHOW at
THE CO-oP. is very attractive to CAREFUL HOUSE-
WIVES, and it is now wed known that easterners are
faithfully and honestly served, and that UN LlKBsom®
unscrupulous traders who mark a few little things
cheap and make large profits on the remainder,
EVERY - THING Is EQUALLY CHEAP at the CO-OP,
For the guidance of YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS,
MATRONS, and Others who have not iet paid a visit
to this cheap mart.
We are selling largo quantities of the CHEAP LACE
CURTAINS received a few days ago at the fol owing
prices :
Lot 1,2 s lld ; Lot 2 3* lid; Dot 3 4a lid; Lot 4,5 s
lid ; Lo* 5,6 s lid ; Lot 6, B’s Hd; Lot 7, lls 9d.
The 8s lid line is usually sold at 12s 6d; the 11s 9d
line at 16* 61.
Scarier and Black Table Cover, 2 yards wide, 5s lid
Embroidered Table Covers, 2 yards square, 5s lid
each
Mosquito Net, 100 inch wide. Hid
White Dimity, handsome pattern, 7ld
Chamber Towels, 2s lid per dozen
Hearth Rugs, 5* 9d ; Door Mats Is lid
Crumb t loth. 2 yards wide, slightly damaged, la o'4
"White Table Damask, 2 raids wide. Is lid
B ankets, per pair, 4s Hd. 5* Hd, 7s Hd, 8s Hd
Splendid Large heavy Blankets, 15s 9<i
Quilts, unmistakably cheap, eveay sizet. from 3s Hd
Marcella Toilet Covers. 10jd ; Zephyr ditto, la
Pure finish American Longolotb, 5s 61 per dozen
Short Blind Muslin, 2Jd ; ditto Lace, fro u 3Jd
Pillow Slip L *cos, every width, from 2 tc» 7 inch, from
Is 81 pt r dozen
Toilet Fringes, TJd; Curtain Loops, 8,/d; Cord, 6d
per dozen V >
Some very choice things in NIGHT DRTtf.SS CASES,
BRUSH CA-!ES, HANDKERCHIEF and
WATCH PuCKETS, for Bedroom nae in Art
Designs. Something quite new.
THE Ctt-OP CHEAP DRAPERY HOUSE,
568 GEi > R G B STREET,’.
CHARLES LANE.
rjlBE BULLETIN BALMAIN AGhL^CY.
Subscribers to The Bulletin, residing in ID 1 main,
who have hitherto r-ceived Thb Bulletin through *h(B
Post Office, will in future be supplied through Bell--,
ridge’s News Agency, Darling and Ami Streets,
Balmain.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
n.
ft
iff.
PI
-a: --=?.■
‘; ! k: if 2
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SWDNET.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, 4c.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is tree from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
onbic feet, of gas.
For full part culars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A. A. M. 4 Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
1879-80.
s
m
4
m
BAK/NC POWDER
lAOKMOWLIOaCt TO BE TNI KIT IN THE WORLD I
MAMU FACTUKED »Y W. DAVIES iC* GOUIBURH.ft.SJD {
jgjip
W
'|lH£ BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
It
55
ct,
X>
$
*
A
pt’^Dt
ELASTIC
ECONWCM.
*
Si
C 5
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and i gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
eomplete. ,8^22:
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us:—“Woollahra. August 20th, 1880, —T have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards —one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
boats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Odotu-s and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
A. SMITH,
88 KING STREET
(From Rotherham’s, London),
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under G. A. S.’s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXFORD STREET.
g GLASSO N’S
* STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Hakkxs-steebt, off Geokoe-streft,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. Q. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, Ac., &c.
S. G.hegs also to notify that be is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street* next corner
Sing-street. Established 1859.
N
EW REFLECTING LAMPS FOE GAS OE
KEROSENE. | fij.
*
&
'A
\W
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS. &c.
______ r»<f
BAEWELL AND FISHER’S DUPLEX
GAS B DEN EES JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, &c.
J. EAWKSPORD, 65 MARKET STREET.
458 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
PHOTOGE VPHY IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERMANENT TINTS.
LBEET S. MANDERS AND CO.,
(Late Grant, Manders and Grant),
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC. ADVERTISING AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 LITTLE COLLIMS ST. EAST, MELBOURNE.
Victorian, Intercolonial, and New Zealand papers
supplied, and Advertisements received for the same.
We can snpply Australian and New Zealand News-
papers witti Article*. Reports of Meetings, Correspon-
dence, and General News, either by letter or telegram ;
and Newsagents and other business people can have any
kind <>f business transacted in Melbourne by applica-
tion to us.
The above Firm have Agents in all the colonies, from
whom they get all the earliest Sporting News, and now
supply, at moderate cost, the leading Hotels Clubs, See.,
with telegrams of results, after each race, of all Sydney
and Victorian Race Meetings.
Hourly Telegrams of Principal Cricket Matches,
&c, SUPPLIED.
We are prepared to forward the result of any or every
race to any p«rt of the An-tralian colonies imme-
diately after the horses pass the post, or at the term!
nation of the day’s sport.
Spe-bd arrangements made for New Zealand and
Tasmania.
Sole Agents in Australia and New Zealand for the
TTPOGEAPH. S- ml for Circulars. Will print SO l ©
copies of ireulars, Drawings, Music, &c., on permanent
paper, and on anv paper. No washing-out required.
P. 0.0. made payable to the above.
Rent and Accounts collected. Every description of
PRINTING executed.
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Pitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters. Pillows,
Sbe'i t •, Biankets. Counterpanes,
Roisters and Pillow blips,
llosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
608 George-street.


Easiness Annoai
W.
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WAI
352 George-str
PIANOFORTES. PI
JUST RECEIVED. JUi
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROI
A splendid stock to s(
EVERY EENOWNEI
AMERICAN OE
By the celebrated
W. BELL, A;
Which gained first and
OYER ALL OT
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTEENATIC
HARMONH
BY
ALEXANDRE and other REN
in all the various
A PEW GOOD SECOND-
at low prices, now
W. H. PALING, agent for Bran
Sonfleto’s, Kirkman’s, and I
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Wate
and Warren's, and Smith anc
852 GEORGE 1
Opposite Wynyar
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO
. 260 and 262 GEORGi
(over Peate and Ha
Now open to the Public. The h
Photographs, Oil Paintings,
Crayon Water Colours, a
will be produi
The enlarging of Old and Past-
Speciality.
Inspection of the public res]
z
' F.AfAKRpirJc
Tobacconis
JAMES
CELEBRATE
EXCELSIOR SMOKINC
Cat Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Le
Best Imported Bi
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and .
15 9 PI TT S T
Next Post Offi
TIN TAG TOBi
None are genuine but the ]
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or TANK;
DIXSON & SO
155 YORK STREET
SMOKE
EUREKA GIG;
MILD, FRAOKANT, 4
a.
T.
Manufactured
SAT W E
AT THE
BAG LE TOBAGO
Clarence-street, S
fjl HO S. J, B O
ENGINEERS, BBASSE
Importers oi
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, S
HOSE, See.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
Chemists and Dx
m
J 3 UB L I C ]
THE following 1
WATSON’S RENOWNED
MEDICINES
so well and favourably known to tr
Watson’s (Vegetable) An
Watson’s (Vegetable) Wi
Watson’s Gingerbread W<
Watson’s Compound Chl<
Watson’s Strengthening ]
Watson's Australian Ven
Watson’s Excelsior Tootl
Watson’s Concentrated G
Elixir (a most valual
can be obtained, wholesale and
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STI
14 OXFORD STB
Near Hyde Park
(N.B. —The Tram-car sto
W. D. EAMBS, P
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLE
GOVERNOR
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and Ne
W. D. E. thanks the public ar
for the support hitherto accorded
Irrespective of Club prescripts
has dispensed 34,000 original pres
ALL THE LEADING MEDICA]
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR TH
Every prescription is CAREPT
the REST DRUGS, copied, nutnb<
sent, if required, to any locality.
indigem
May be easiest cured by the fol
EAMES’S QUINI
Which improves the appetite i
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGEST
For severe cases where the gast
and when sickness and flatule:
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANI
Which relieve the towels gently,
naturally healthy functions
organs.
Chemists and Dr
T
AKE NO MO
but try
EANDEESOB
PODOPHYLLIN LO
Do you SUFFER from HEA
Then try
PODOPHY]
Do you Complain of Indigest
Take a few doses o
PODOPHY]
Do yon Suffer from Giddinesi
Spend one shilling, an
EANDEES*
Do yon constantly suffer fron
If so rememl
PODOPHY
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MED]
Are any’of your children sicl
can safely give them oni
for the small members c
TAKE WI
Semember this, and alwa;
Valuable Family Medicine by you
Prepared only by the P
EDWARD ROW and
45 and 47 George-f
B Y ROYAL LETT!
The Greate
WONDER OF TH
JOSEPHSON
AUSTRALIAN OIN
Guaranteed to
Free from all poisonous qualit
of Vegetable Matt<
Being made from the Wild Plai
in the Bush of New So
This Ointment is not a mere c
public, nor does it require any pi
as it has been so well proved for 1
that it is impossible that the pub
long deceived. In fact, people art
lous regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot be!
But one trial will convince the :
High and low, rich and poor, ha
fits from its use, and scarcely a
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALI
is now the household word of the
The quick and instant relief froi
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF 1
which, taken altogether, prove tht
to be the Eighth Wonder of the
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints
bands and lips, bunions, soft co
casualities attending the human i
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALL
the
WONDER OF TH]
Who would suffer from Sandy
find immediate relief and be per
Josephson’s Australian Ointment
Who would suffer from Externa!
may be cured by using Josephso
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft C
moved by applying constantly f<
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums l
can have immediate relief by a
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excorii
tion when a remedy like Jos
Ointment can be obtained P
Who would suffer from Piles
Josephson’s Australian Ointment
It stands unrivalled. The woi
effected, which is proved by the tesi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the largi
demand, prove it to be still pre-ei
of the kind yet known. It is* of i
the natural extracts of the plants i
and totally free from any and al
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S
OINTMENT
which is guaranted to be what
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and store
and Is 6d each throughout the col
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD E<
ENTEAL PH
78 fLate 841 KTNfi S


JJLADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
B
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
JJLADON
’S HEALTH SALINE.
Jg LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and ORANGES.
Taken according to dire«‘tio‘n on the bottle,
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rational remedy as a preventive or cine of Biliousness,
all functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Im-
purities ef the , Bipod, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
Indigestion, tbe effects propueed by a too free in-
dulgence in rich foot}, or the a:use of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheutuatism, &o.; at tbe commence-
ment of fevers, S ■ all Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master-
piece^-Man. Kemember this is Nature's specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
H* THE GoVEBNOB.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir,—ln reply to your letter, I ha\e to inform yon
that the parcel was received in good order; and the
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform yon that his Excellency
considers it MOS I EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“ Reginald Bloxsome, P.S.
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
SALINE.
The Australian Churchman says:
“ Pr is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK.
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale —Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co.. Brisbane.
%
yp/vjr^
V'V
Af'lV’
JO
piyAIN pCUF(E£, SJOC^'NE
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
JjJNJOT LIFE.
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest t > enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most bitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsiaand Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every dav to be carried off by PARALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, OON.^UMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSI \ and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would a-k you
in sood fafth that you try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no barm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Largo bottle, 3s 6d.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
T ET
H. HOOKINGS
PURE
& 00.’
OLD AUSTEALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
MA. G 0 O
• PARK HOTEL, PARRAMATTA.
(immediately opposite the domain gates).
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines and Spirits, of the
best brands, at the lowest possible prices.
parties therefore would do well not to burden tnenx-
selves by bringing the same.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OP THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Lhspbctioh BsqussTBn.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen's, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale.—
Gents’ superior Kid
Boots, from 12/6.
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
1/9.
Large variety.
Gents' English
Calf Shoes, sewn,
9/6. Good quality.
Ladies’ beet high-
button Boots—the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10/6.
Gents’ English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10/6 —best ia town.
Ladies* Glacie
Kid Button Boots,
12/6, worth 15/6,
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —beat Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
CO
CO
EC
o
CD
O
tO
z
o
CD
o
o
CO
<
EC
z
LU
CO
£5=
CD
OT7K CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
j Wb But toe Cash—We Sell foe Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
COME AND SEE THE NEW GOODS
Boys' and 9irls* School Boots, our own manufac-
ture, warranted to wear well.
Try them.
Be sure you visit the right Shop.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only bo a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
GOWING BROTHERS’ I0s6d double texture twilled
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Foie’s Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five cases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET,
READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
shrunk and well out. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
ALT. GOODS marked in PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD FOR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
832 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
QNCE USED ALWAYS USED.
Trademark “Arm and Dolly" on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
TRADE
MARK
The GBAUD GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BH DSHD
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &o.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
B. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
JJOYAL I
HOUSES FUR-
NISHED
throughout in
the nicest and
most economical
manner. Poll
particulars post
free to all parts
of the colonies.
EVERY WED
NE3DAY, we
keep open until
nine o’clock for
the convenience
of those who can-
not attend daring
the day. The
SHOW-ROOMS
are well lit, and
every attention
afforded inspect-
ing visitors and
intending pur-
chasers.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
UENISHIN
LARGE
AMOUNTS OF
money have been
saved by pur-
chasing at the
Royal Furnishing
Arcade, which
has from time to
time been ac-
knowledged a
great boon to the
pnMio.
EFFORTS TO
make the Arcade
a centre attrac-
tion have to the
present time been
most successful.
Visiters feel such
a pleasure in
walking through
the Show-Rooms
—they can do so
without being
worried or even
expected to make
a purchase.
SAVE MONEY
by purchasing at
the ROYAL
PUNISHING
ARC A DE,
426, & 423,
George -Street,
Next the
Royal Hotel.
} ARCADE.
THERE CAN
,be no better proof
of the increasing
popularity of the
Royal Famish-
ing Arcaoi than
the last month’s
record of its busi-
ness transactions
If you are about
to furnish pro-
cure a copy of our
Economical
House Furnish-
ing Guide. You
will find it very
suggestive, and
consequently a
great help. All
classes of g'ods
are kept. It is
our constant
stndy to buy in
the cheapest mar-
aud give our cus-
tomers every
satisfaction.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
M AN L T A
BEACH.
A. PORTER, FAMILY BUTCHER,
CORNER BELQRAVE AND RAGLAN STREETS.
MANLY.
Best country killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
kinds of Poultry. Small Goods always on hand.
Families waited on daily.
THE KOOKABURRA.
A capital thing.—Cash.
A sculling race.—Phrenologists.
Man of the time. —A watchmaker.
Only a question—Asking the hour.
The lap of luxury—The oat at the cream.
A cord that grates on the ear—the hangman’s.
There is no sweetmeat so sweet as the meet of
two lo»ers.
Guest; “ Waiter, bring me another dish of peas
and a magnifying-glass.”
The man whose lager went the wrong way said
he bad an ale in bis coughin'.
Mr. Moffatt tried to melt a bnllet out of his
gun. He succeeded. Aged 62.
“ What men do—what men dare do.” —Their
tallow-men, whenever they get a chance.
A civil servant says that the pleasantest side of
George-st is the farthest from the tailor’s.
A man with a scolding wife, being asked what
his occupation was, replied that be kept a hothouse.
The puzzle which careful mothers try to solve
is how to train the girls, and how to restrain the boys.
A jury is a body organized for the purpose of
deciding which side in a lawsuit has the smartest
lawyer.
A woman who was abusing her husband bit her
tongue, The tongue get well, but in a week she lost all
her teeth.
A man never looks so much like a red-handed
villain as when he is told by the photographer to " look
pleasant."
Kings are mightiest of the mighty in this world,
bat the Czar of Russia has special claims to be reckoned
the dynamiteist.
The “contributor” to the Albert Banner
of essays for young readers, signs himself “ J.A.W.”
That's no speciality.
Sdison is now experimenting to see if a cow
cannot be made to give ice eream by wrapping her in
congealed water before milking.
At the late testing of the railway bridge, Wel-
lington, one drunken navvy hit another on the bridge
of the nose. Deflection, one inch.
It is said that a woman’s voice can be heard for
two miles by a man in a balloon. This is, perhaps, the
reason that so few men go np in balloons.
A lawyer, in arguing a divoioe suit recently,
held that a hnsband had a legal right to make his wife
stand in a corner with a clothes-pin on her nose.
“Empty is the Cradle, Baby’s Gone,” is the
title of the latest serio-idiotio song. It is to be
followed by “ Empty is the Bottle, Papa’s Pull.”
The Wrecker says: — “Touching the coming
Masquerade Ball, aud the proposed * Group of Giants,'
1 hear Sir 'Enry means to go disguised as a giant of
hintellect."
After he had spent many days in drawing up
his will, the millionare signed it with the exclamation :
“ Thank God, there's ten years’ litigation here for my
successors.”
A naturalist has satisfied himself beyond a doubt
that the average cat travels a distance of eight miles
every night, when there is no earthly reason for her
storing a rod.
Referring to the case of Mr. Hope, who has been
sentenced for embezzlement at Wagga, the Soutbbbm
Abo us quotes the lines—" Hope for a season bade the
world farewell."
When does a female prove herself a woman of
metal ? When she has golden hair, a silvery voice, a
heart of steel, a little brass in her cheeks, and is willing
to be le(a)d to the altar.
“ Why are we here ?” was the opening remark
of a fashionable clergyman last Sunday. And not one
woman rose up and honestly answered that she was
there to show her good clothes.
Nautical : Husband (jokingly)—“ Oh, I n the
mainstay of the family.” Wife— “ Yes, and the jib-
boom an 1 the—aud the—” Small boy (from experience)
—Aud the spanker too, mamma."
Country Doctor (to the bereaved widow of an
JI L.A ): "I cannot tell how pained I was to hear that
your husband had gone to heaven. We were bosom
friends, bat now we shall never meet again."
At a political meeting in Melbourne, the other
night, it was hinted that the two parties showed “ bury
the hatohet," whereupon some one suggested that it
would do just as well to “hatchet the Berry."
“ O’Eafferty,” said theP.M., “ your wife swears
you struck her with great violence.” “ Wid great
violins t when there isn’t a fiddle, big nor little, in the
house. She exaggerates too much entoirly. It was
only a flat-iron.”
Scene —Dining-room of boarding-house devoted
to the profession. Song and dance artist to serio-comic
queen, on whom he is slightly gone; “Say, kin I skin
you a potaty ?" Serio-counque, with graoe ; “Thanks,
pard, I have one already skun."
The man who invented the gas meter never
thought he had found perpetual motion. But he did,
though. Just you leave home a couple of months and
you will find that it goes right on, just like the salary
of a clergyman who has gone to Europe for his health.
Mrs. Partington has heard that some of the
Parisian ladies h ive taken to wearing " moire ’’ for the
Sr sets of their evening dresses. “And high time
ay should wear more! " say our virtuous friends.
“Nasty indecent creatures most of them, by all ac-
oounts.”
We love smartness and we adore alliteration,
whether it be met with in a Swinburnian stanza or a
newspaper par. We are, consequently, quite fascinated
With the luvbbell Times, which calls us “ the brisk,
brief, but bragging, babbling, belinguous, backdoor-
chronicling Bullbtik’.”
“ Stl says you can’t come to see her any more,”
remarked a boy to the admirer of the youth’s sister.
“Why not? ” “ Because you come seven nights in a
week now, and how could you come any more without
spreading the week like blazes?" A stillness then
spread itself all around the room.
Snipkina refused to get his wife a new hat, and,
soon after, his little girl e-ime in and said, “ Mamma,
won’t you buy me a monkey to play with when yon go
dawn town ? ” ‘No, darling; wait till you are older
and then marry one, asldid," re plied the grief-stricken
■wife, her tears bursting forth afresh.
The venerable wife of a celebrated physician
o*9 day, casting her eyes out of the window, observed
her hushaud in the funeral procestion of one of his
Salients, at which she exclaimed, “ I do wish my hus-
aod would keep away from such processions. Itappears
so much like a tailor carrying home his work.”
Advance, Australia fair
Thou art big Britain’s antipodes.
Thou grow’st the wooden pear.
Thy gam-trees bark : eke do thy fish climb trees.
Black swsns and duck-moles on thy waters glide.
And slider-catching flies with thee abide;
Idk -wis i the cherry with its stone outside I
A blacksmith recently attempted to shoe one
ef the mules that a Chinese company who trade at the
Hodgkmsou use as "pack-horses." The mule shoed
flho blacksmith right in the stomach, and drove two of
his vest buttons into his backbone. The blacksmith
got wild, and threw the anvil at the mule. The latter
caught, it on the fly, and sent the echo back again, and
e)oeed the performance by kicking the shop into tooth-
pioks.
’Twaa Sunday eve and the small boy stood
With his eye to the keyhole pressed.
And he saw hie sister Bessy’s head
On Absalom Thompson’s vest.
Th‘'n he ran to his parent stern and told.
And the parent, stem replied ;
“There aint no harm in a vest; slide out,”
But the lad refused to slide.
“ There aint no harm in the vest I know,"
And his eyes flashed bright that minute,
“ But isn’t it dangerous, dad," he asked,
“ When Absalom Thompson’s in it ? ”


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
imzes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
How The Bulletin “had” the English
Papers.
It will be remembered, just after the Hanlan-Trickett
race, we published a long “squib” account of the
contest. The narrative, which was'obviously fictitious,
has been copied, and regarded in a serious light by
several leading English papers, including our sprightly
contemporary, the London Eeferee, which goes to the
trouble of contradicting seriatim our joking assertions.
It’s perfectly true that we are now regarded as liars by
a huge section of the British public; but as, on the
other hand, we have been given the credit oi investing
in an English cablegram of about 1200 words, we are
quite satisfied with the advertisement, which is even
better than a libel action. Just to show what innocent
people the Britishers are, we quote from the European
Mail:— “The Eeferee reprints from the Sydney
Bulletin of November 29,1880, a somewhat remarkable
account of the Hanlan and Trickett race as ‘ a splendid
account of what did not take place.' We should think
so, too. There is hardly a word of truth in the whole
report, which is supposed to have been sent by special
cable to The Bulletin. The Prince of Wales, for
instance, was not present, and therefore could not have
shaken hands with the combatants and made use of the
expression, ‘ May the best man win.’ Nor is it a fact
-that Anthony Froude, Charles Eeade, and a celebrated
bishop were present disguised, as reporters. Then the
idea of Sir Julius Yogel mingling with the sporting
fraternity and betting £350 at' under and over * before
the start, is too absurd, we should think, to be believed
b}' any colonists.” Whoop !
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Hon. William Forster is 63 years of age.
The income of the Duke of Westminster is
£‘Boo,ooo per ansum.
Queen Victoria’s property is valued at
£7,000,000.
The Prince of Wales won some <£15,000 lately
•on the turf.
Big divorce case coming one leading
barrister in it, at present.
Mr. Andrews has been raised to the bench at
Adelaide, vice Judge Gwynne.
Mr. Dickinson, of the firm of Learmonth,
Dickinson, and Cos., leaves for Europe this month.
Mr. E- A. Proctor was lecturing to crowded
audiences in the Eastern States when the ’Frisco mail
left.
Mrs. W. C. Smith, the estimable wife of the
Victorian Minister of Education, died of cancer last'
week.
Sir Cracroft Wilson, C. 8., late of the Bengal
Civil Service, died recently at Christchurch, N.Z., aged
74 years.
Heart-disease, according to the Hodgkinson
Independent, was the cause of the death of the late
Mr. J. H. Duff, of Maytown.
The Eev. Dr. Bermingham, E.C. clergyman of
Wagga Wagga, is proceeding with his action for libel
against the Evening News. Damages laid at £IOOO.
When Anthony Trollope was in Auckland, he
lost £3OO at the Northern Club. Strange to say, this
fact is not mentioned in his Australasian remeniscenes.
The value of the estate of the late Dr. Antoine
Mousse, of Beechworth, who was unfortunately
drowned at Brisbane some months ago, is set down at
£3041.
Mrs. D. L. Levy has been presented with a
handsome silver salver, in recognition of her 16 years’
services as hon. secretary to the Hebrew Ladies’ Dorcas
Society,
The Earl and Countess of Ellesmere left Sydney
for Brisbane on the 12th. During' their stay in Sydney
they were the guests ef Lord and Lady Augustus Loftus
at Government House.
In possession of a relative, Mr. C. B. Wood-
house, are papers to prove that Port Aitken (improperly
•called Port Hacking), was so named after Capt. Aitken,
E.N., in the early days.
Mr. Charles James Poole, an able journalist,
•for many years connected with the Melbourne Argus,
died very suddenly of heart disease at the London
office of that journal on January 19.
John Black, a veteran soldier, died at Hamilton
Vic., last week. Among those who followed him to the
grave were two Crimean veterans—one of the gallant
Six hundred and one of the Highland Brigade.
Says the Melbourne correspondent of the
Hamilton Spectator As a proof of the musical
taste of the Australian public, it may be mentioned
that Mr. Ketten, the pianist, leaves ns with a total of
£7500 as the gross result of his year’s visit.”
Anthony Trollope is too prolific by half. He
has another novel ready called “ Ayala’s Angel.” The
poets are fertile. Hugo, Tennyson, and Swinburne have
books in press, and the Lord knows how many in their
desks.
Immediately after receiving a telegram to the
effect that the rule nisi for divorce obtained against him
by his wife had been made absolute, Mr. Eichmond
Thatcher married, at Melbourne, Miss Alice Emma
Smith.
Eichard Pheney, for many years editor and pro-
prietor of the Taranaki News, N.Z., is dead. He was
one of the earlier settlers of New Plymouth. N.Z., and
in his younger days was an associate of Shelley, Keats
and Leigh Hunt. ’
The services of ex-President Grant are being
liberally recognised in the United States. At latest
dates the amount subscribed towards a public gift
had reached £45,000. Four American capitalists each
contributed £SOOO.
Mr. D. Wilson, a member of the well-known
nrm of Mason Bros, and Cos., left for Europe by the
Brindisi on the 11th. Prior to his departure, he was
banqueted by a number of the leading mercantile
gentlemen of Sydney.
. Mr. G. E. Dibbs is preparing to leave his lodg-
ings in the debtors’ quarters at Darlinghurst gaol.
Mr. Dibbs has enjoyed excellent health during his
retirement, and looks much, better and fresher now
than when he commenced his studies.
We are glad to notice that that good and genial
seaman, Mr. Wallace, chief officer of the Wotonga, and
formerly of the Egmont and other A.S.N. boats, has at
last got a command. His many friends will congratu-
latehim on his appointment as captain of the company’s
s.s. Governor Blackall.
William Hall, the Gympie ‘‘ Bonanza’ ’ king, after
ma « n S a tour of N.S.W. and Victoria started for home
on Tuesday last. He says it’s very funny how people
change. Before he “ struck it rich" everybody called
“ Bdh” Now (although he wears the same clothes)
iney address him as “ Mister Hall."
The income of Mackay, the Californian Bonanza
King enables him to dispurse £7600 a day, £3OO an hour,
so a minute. He is only 45 years old. Thirty years ago
ne left Ireland a poor lad, and sixteen years ago he was
Bankrupt. A silver mine made his fortune.
ivr? r » nc * 9 Horace Stnbley, the lucky reefer, and
m.L.A. for Charters Towers in the Queensland Assem-
f’ iv embarked in business in Melbourne, having
established a shipping office. It is not probable that
ne will hold his seat much longer. Frank isn’t much
ot an orator, but he can write—cheques.
wuv 6 P u klic breakfast to welcome home the Hon.
llam P° rs ter took place on Tuesday, in the great
°f the Town Hall. 120 were present,
T c i u ™S fifteen members of Parliament. The Hon.
i ?v. -“ a mell occupied the chair. Thirty-two members
tne Legislative Assembly purchased tickets.
The first civil engineer who visited our shores,
at any rate in his professional capacity, was the late
Mr. Lyle Paterson, who came to the colony as an 1
Imperial officer. He was drowned by the capsizing of
a boat. A daughter of the deceased gentleman islthe
wife of the manager of one of the Sydney banks.
The Messrs. George ana Rowland Sheiley, ana
not, as has been stated. Sir John Hay, originally* took
up the Welaregung station and other adjacent
holdings. This was in 1837, and in 1838 the Shelleys sold
Welaregung to Messrs. Hay and Chalmers. The
Shelleys were the first white men who visited the
Walaregung district.
George Eliot’s Christian name (remarks “ Dago-
net”) was Mary Ann. Surely, she was great enough
and glorious enough to have ennobled even that
commonplace appellation. Yet all the obituary notices
refer to her as either “Marion" or “Marian.” We
suppose Shakespeare was wrong, and there is something
in a name, after all.
The will of the late Mr. James Blackwood, of
Melbourne, has been sworn under £72.900. The testator
leaves £IO,OOO to his daughters Jemima and Adelaide,
with a further legacy of £20,000 each, subject to certain
trusts. The residue of the estate, after certain small
legacies have been provided for, he devises to his son
Arthur B-anken Blackwood.
Mr. W. Mason, Engineer-in-Chief of Existing
Lines, has resigned his position, because the Govern-
ment refused to grant him twelve months* leave of
absence on full pay. Mr. Coudery temporarily assumes
the vacant position. Mr. Mason is a very able
gentleman, and it will be much regretted if the
trivial dispute between himself and the head of his
department cannot be arranged.
The marriage of the Baroness Burdett-Coutts
was a strictly private affair. The eldest male head of
the Coutts family gave the blushing and youthful
baroness away, and the wedding breakfast took 'dace at
the house of the bride’s maiden aunt, who, of course,
iP that she could not attend the ceremony.
The happy pair spent their honeymoon in the country.
What a burning honeymoon it must have been!
The Lyre publishes in last Saturday’s issue a
number of English items, among which is one announ-
cing that Professor Keuleaux. German Commissioner
at the Melbourne International, had been thrown from
his carriage and had several bones broken. Added to this
is the statement that the professor is slowly recovering.
This is good news from England about an event that
occurred in Melbourne, and was some months ago re-
ported in all the Australian newspapers.
The United States is the place for munificent
salaries for editors and editresses. Miss Booth, editress
of Harper’s Bazaar (a ladies’ fashion journal), receives
5000 dollars (£1040) per annum. The present super-
intendent of the New York Herald receives 10,000
dollars a year for his services, and it is interesting to
recall, in this connection, that the late Mr. E. Hudson,
who was chief editor of that paper under James Gordon
Bennett, sen., received a pension of that amount after
his withdrawal from active service until his death.
From a London paper—
Me. Parnell’s Song, December 17, 1880.
You must wake, and call me early; call me earlyi
mother, dear;
To-morrow will be the saddest time of all the sad, bad
year.
Of all the sad, bad year, mother, the saddest, sorriest
day.
For I’m to be tried by May, mother, I’m to be tried by
May.
The Eight Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney,
Mr. John Harris, and the Mayoress, gave a most en-
joyable banquet at the Town Hall on the evening of
the 11th. The affair formed a most desirable change
from the conventional quarterly banquet, and it had
the additional charm of being graced by the pre-
sence of ladies. The guests were numerous
Selections of orchestral and vocal music were given
during the intervals of the speeches. Mr. and Mrs.
Harris deserve a very high compliment for this most
desirable innovation.
Poor old Blanqui, it was some weeks ago
announced by cable, has gone where, whatever may be
the existing form of government, he will be unable to
denounce it. He said some very awful things, and in
public was a roaring lion ; but I have reason to know
(says a London writer) that the lion could sometimes
roar as gently as a sucking dove, and that, like the
gentleman who used to play First Murderer at the Vic.,
and had an unquenchable thirst for gore, was, when
the war-paint was washed off, a kind-hearted creature,
who would have hesitated to stick a tooth-pick into a
protoplasm lest he might hurt it. Still, he was
ferociously thorough in the Communistic gospel he
preached, and the last journal he edited, Ni Dieu Ni
Maitre, was calculated to make the flattest hair that
ever grew on human head assume the perpendicular.
So the Tichborne claimant has got to serve his
time. Well, putting aside a few of his little eccen-
tricities, he is not half a bad fellow. When living at
the Waterloo Hotel, his cigars were noted as being the
best in London, and he had some cognac that was simply
nectar of the gods. After the case was adjourned, every
afternoon, he used to hold a levee, and a great number
of the jeunesse doree used to call upon him. His
sitting-room looked out on Jermyn-street, and was
handsomely furnished. There Sir Eoger used to recline
J n a mighty chair, eternally puffing at the soothing
* weed.” Curious enough, in that room, with his small
hands and feet, fashionable clothes, and happy way of
doing the honours, he resembled a butcher as little as
possible. He addressed every one in terms of familiarity
and “ my-lorded” no one. He was always ready to take
a bet—from a pony to a hundred ; nothing under.
Altogether, he was a study. Many people think that,
whatever may have been his faults, he has almost had
enough punishment. We think they might let him
loose without causing a revolution. There is one con-
eolation for him, anyhow. When he dees come out,
whatever he dies of, it won't be starvation.
Mar wood, the English hangman, it is said, is by
no means tad, company, but one can’t help an occa-
sional shudder as he discourses earnestly and-, elot
guently on the advantages ©f being hanged. He refers
to his always as “ my people,” and is as proud
of the way he gives them their exit from the theatre of
life as a country doctor would be who had once helped
a duchesette on to it. For the rest, Starwood is High
Church and Conservative, prefers Browning to all the
poets, and considers Mr. Justice Hawkins and Lord
Beaconsfleld the two greatest men who ever lived.
“Upon my word, sir,” said he to a visitor recently as
their interview closed, “I don’t know which of ’em I
would be proudest to give my services to.” The sensation
experienced while being guillotined is stated to be —not
by thoes who have tried it —a delicious coolness in the
region of the neck. Marwood says that hanging is even
nicer than that. It’s just like your sweetheart’s arm
about your neck and one good hug. The knot that catches
his client under the ear Mr Marwood calls the “ true
lover’s knot.” By the way, Mr. Howard, our Monsieur
de Sydney, is capital company, too—at any rate he used
to be before we lost his friendship. Our first quarrel
was over the account of the sudden death of a black-
fellow at Mudgee; our second over the report of an
interview with Mr. Howard at his residence; and now
Monsieur de Sydney waltzes round, saying how much
he’d like to have the editor of The Bulletin for a client.
Duncan Francis Campbell Moodie has lately
wept. That was when he read the following wire:—
“ The British Government has declined the South
Australian offer of 300 volunteers to the Transvaal war,
deeming John Bull’s regulars equal to the work.”
Duncan is a great character, and his sole aim appears
to keep himself before the public. He is short, stout,
and muscular, and the complexion of his face is of the
hue, not of boiled pork, but of that of the countenance
of the elder Mr. Weller. Mr. Moodie is bellicose when
festive, but subdued in his cooler moments. In sum-
mer he carries about with him, to keep the flies off, the
mounted tail of an Asiatic ass, and ill-natured people
iu Adelaide aver that never before did that animal brush
the flies off its head with its tail. Mr. Moodie wished
to command a party of S.A. recruits and proceed to
South Africa (his native spot) at the expense of the
Government. The Government apparently don’t believe
in Mr. Moodie’s talents as a general; so the whole thing
has fallen through. This is to be regretted. Duncan
once had a paper called the Portonian, which for
general dulness and unqualified blasphemy was a
“corker.” It “went bung.” Yetif Mr. Moodie had
been allowed to go to the wars—being a good mark for
a cannon-ball—it would then have been exceedingly
improbable that the Portonian could ever be resusci-
tated. Now it isn’t. However, Duncan is loyal—to the
backbone.
Mr. Julian Thomas (“ The Vagabond ”) writes
to the Herald a characteristic letter in defence of
Louise Michel, whom that journal’s Noumean corres-
pondent described as both “ mad and bad,” as a “ crack-
brained badly-inclined pMroleuse,” an old maid fond of
cats. Mr. Thomas points out that some weeks ago the
Herald’s Paris correspondent, “ who apparently knew
Mdlle. Michel well, gave her but fair justice in de-
scribing her immaculate character, and in telling how
people for whom she suffered received her with open
arms, how men of world-wide repute crowded to do her
honour, and how she slipped away quietly from the
railway station avoiding' as much as possible all public
display. She was described as she was ten years ago
—young, comely, virginal—and how the years of im-
prisonment, exile, and suffering had prematurely aged
her.” “The Vagabond" adds: “There are some
people, I hope, who recognise true nobility, even
though it may not be ‘gilt-edged.’ There are some, I
hope, who can see below the mere outward shell which
encloses the soul, some whom the lust of the eye has
not taken entire possession of. To these what can be
more touching than the thought of a woman, still
young, ‘trudging slipshod through the streets to give
lessons,’ earning her living in exile, but dead to all a
woman’s vanity of personal appearance, finding comfort
only in the society of dumb creatures. ‘ Crackbrained ’
she may be styled by many, but there are some who
will do her honour for her suffering.”
When the Rev. De La Bere had been inhibited
for drunkenness someone remarked that the Eev. De
La Bitter Bere was not his full appellation.*!
The Caecoar Chronicle asserts that on the
occasion of a recent local tea-meeting two fair eques-
triennes, accompanied by a well-known gentleman of
foreign extraction, so freely indulged that, having lost
their escort, they despaired of getting home again.
One rushed frantically to the telegraph office, and des-
patched the following message to a gentleman in
Carcoar“ Have over-gorged ourselves. Cannot ride.
Send Wright, Heaton’s van, sharp.”
When Marie Antoinette was talking about the
bread riots of Paris during thn sth and 6th of October,
1789, the Duchess de Polignac naively exclaimed,
“ How is it that these silly people are so clamorous for
bread when they can buy such nice cakes for a few
sous?” This was in spirit not unlike the remark of
Princess Charlotte, who said that “ she would rather
eat beef than starve,” and wondered that people should
insist upon having bread when it was so scarce.
Stephen Thompson, a good-looking young fellow
of 26, formerly a planter in the South Seas, has been
committed for trial at Melbourne for bigamy. In 1872
he married a Miss Thomas, of Prahran, with whom he
lived unhappily; and in December last he went through
the form of marriage with a comely barmaid named
Ann Tasca. Thompson displayed much attachment
towards his second and younger wife, and as he was being
taken to the cell she went over to him, and he kissed
her repeatedly. Thompson made the singular remark
that he married his second wife in order that he might
1 3t a divorce from the first.
LOUISE MICHEL.
AN APOSTLE OF THE SOCIAL REVOLUTION.
(From the Pall Mall G[?].)
“ She would have been a great saint if she had
only been turned the right way.” Such was the
verdict of the Sister Superior of St. Lazare on
Louise Michel before she went to New Caledonia;
and the sister was right. Louise Michel is a
saint who has lost who has lost her way. She has
all the fervour, the enthusiasm, and the unhesita-
ting self-sacrifice of the greatest of the saints of
the Church. She is one of the saints of the
social revolution —a petroleuse of the petroleuses.
Although she proclaims herself the ally of all
those who with spade, mine, or fire attack the
cursed edifice of our old society, she is personally
irreproachable: her bitterest enemies have never
charged against her any private offences against
the social laws. She is one of the remarkable
women of Paris—and in some respects she is the
most interesting of the trio. Sara Bernhardt is
one, Mdme. Adam is the other, and Louise Michel
is the third. Sara Bernhardt is the queen of
the stage, Mdme. Adam of the saloon, and Louise
Michel finds her throne among the suffering and
discontented poor. So say her votaries.
Louise Michel was born half a century since in
a humble home in the department of the Marne.
Her mother was a farm-yard maid at the chateau
of a noble family ; and Louise, when a child, was
the pet and plaything of the ladies of the chateau.
She received a good education, and being fre-
quently at the chateau she acquired a cultivated
taste and a few accomplishments. She excelled
in gardening, and became learned in all the simple
lore of country life. Her intelligence so impressed
the son of the owner of the chateau that during
his vacations he amused himself by teaching the
little Louise to write rhymes and French com-
position. Her rhymes, it is said, were excellent,
and she has never lost the art of versifying; but
of late years the effusions of her lyre have been
veritable poems of a petroleuse—sanguinary
invocations of social revolution. Not in that
strain did she write when as a simple peasant girl
she first essayed to express herself in prose and
verse; nor could any one have dreamed that the
intelligent little damsel with the well-kept flower-
bed and attractive manners would ever develop
into the Maenad whose passionate diatribes stir
the blood of the fierce democracy of Belleville and
Montmartre. It is said that she was peculiarly
distinguished for her proficiency in religious
knowledge, and she took the best position in the
catechism class. How or when she became dis-
satisfied with her tranquil provincial life is not
stated; but one fine day an uncontrollable desire
to leave the dull shade of the silent chateau took
possession of the young lady, then apparently in
her teens, and, packing her wardrobe in a parcel,
she started for Paris. On arriving at the capital
she was befriended by the family at whose house
she had been reared, and they secured for her a
situation as assistant mistress in a school at
Montmartre. There she taught for many years,
retaining her position in fact until the communal
rising in 1871.
Of her life during all these years there is no
record. She laboured at her vocation in silence
and in sorrow, brooding much over the miseries of
the world, and meditating gloomily over a social
system which crushed almost out of all semblance
of humanity the wretches who crowded the slums
and alleys of the lowest quarters of Paris. A
woman of marvellous will and extraordinary
strength of character, with intense sympathies
and a spirit that flamed with unquenchable in-
dignation against all the oppression and injustice
and hypocrisy of this evil world, she appears to
have rid herself of the last vestige of the faith
in which she was reared, and to have embraced in
its stead with all the passionate ardour of her
nature the gospel of the social revolution. Hence,
when the Commune revolted against Versailles,
Louise J. ichel hailed the insurrection as the dawn
of anew and a better day. Woman though she
was, she joined the ranks of the insurgents, and
fought with many other women who were prompt
to follow her leading against the hated Yersaillese.
In the streets and at the council table she was
ever at the front; aid when the Commune fell, it
was Louise Michel who distributed cans of petro-
leum to Ihose who were willing to make a funeral
pyre of the capital which witnessed its fall. So
at least it is said. There is less doubt about the
part which she played in defending the heights of
Montmartre. Whoa the insurgents turned to fly,
Louise Michel taunted them as cowards, and,
hastening to the cannon, fired round after round
upon the advancing troops, until at last, standing
alone by her gnus, she was made prisoner by the
Yersaillese. The great stroke had failed. Ver-
sailles had triumphed; the social revolution was
drowned in blood. Louise was tried by court-
martial and condemned to death. While awaiting
trial her conduct was exemplary. She was obe-
dient:, docile, silent, and respectful. But when,
in consideration of her sex, and of the motherly
care which she had shown to the poor deserted
children of Montmartre, even during the worst
agonies of the second siege, the sentence was
commuted to transportation to New Caledonia,
she lost her self-control and burst out into a
passionate imprecation upon the court which
denied her even the right to die. She declared she
would not accent her reprieve, and despatched an
indignant epistle to the court demanding that they
should recognise her right to be shot like a man.
As they turned a deaf ear to her pleadings, she
poured out her soul in a passionate letter to Victor
Hugo—“My poet and my master”—imploring
him to save her from the disgrace of being re-
prieved like a woman after she had so heroically
earned the right to be shot like a man. Victor
Hugo could do nothing, and in due time Louise
was removed to the prison of Aubernie, pending
her transportation to the South Seas. She appears
to have subdued her fury at being condemned to
live, and to have accepted the reprieve as a sign
that there was still work for her to do. When the
Sister Superior went to bid her farewell, she was
startled by the light of triumph that gleamed in
Louise’s_ eye. “ I shall come back,” she said.
“You will see us all back again soon ; we shall do
better next time.” “ How absurd,” said the
sister; “ the Commune is utterly crushed, and
you are going to the Antipodes for life.” “You
are mistaken/’ replied the petroleuse; “au re-
voir, ma sceuK When the fires are lighted in
Paris I will be a'friend to you.”
On the long and weary voyage to New Caledonia
Louise Michel showed herself a ministering angel
to the poor wretches who were sent out with her
in the ship. She taught them to read and write.
She instructed them in morality. In sickness she
was their nurse, in trouble their comforter. In
the penal settlements, as in the prison, her con-
duct was irreproachable. She worked and waited,
biding her time. When at last she was amnestied
she refuseu to leave Noumea unless her fellow-
exiles were released. It is no wonder that such a
woman should have been received with almost
royal honours on her return to Paris by the popu-
lation of Montmartre. Nor is it strange that her
meetings are crowded, and that the vehemence of
‘THEM RELICS!"


SINGER'S SEWING A.
THE
s
INGEE MANUFACTUEIi
Have opened a Depo
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DAE
HARBOUR STRE
INGEE’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sent
s
s
INGEE'S SEWING
BEST TERMS TO WHOLES
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for address of neai
s
INGEE’S, THE BEST F(
Have received 160 First Pr
s
INGEES SEWING
Ten per cent, for c:
s
iNGEE’S, BEST FOE I
SINGER'S MEDIUM MACH
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. wi
s
INGEES THE BEST F
See the New No. 4 Ma
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition t
s
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE
See the New No. 4 Vibrating'-]
8
INGEES SEWING
HAND OR TREAD
8
TNGEE’S, The BEST. The
MACHINE—Light to Work, ]
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST;
LEARN. New Improvements
8
NGEE’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all ]
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST A 1
Sew finest muslins and he
8
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
INGEB’S THE BEST andM
Will last a lifetime in coi
8
INGEE’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TB
8
INGEE MANUPACTUEH
No. I DARLING STORES. Har
8
have
INGEE’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George street, Haymarl
been appointed agents foi
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth’s
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cas
SINGER’S SEWING MJ
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACH]
and CO. only recommend
REMEMBEE, THEEE IS t
GER MACHINE. See th(
Mark on the arm.
IN GEE’S "AIACHINEST—h
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 356, George-atreet.
INGEE’S MACHINES.—B
Cast ir »n imitations. Onlj
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
INGEE S SEWING MACH
ments with the Singer C
IN GEE'S S E VYING MAC
cent, discount for cash, or on '
8
8
StDNEV. —From TUENEIi
GEORGE STREET. opposit<
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACH]
but 160 FIRST PEI
T
HE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot be too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street,
her invectives is occasioning some uneasiness to
the Government. Fierce and uncompromising,
with a spirit unbroken by suffering and a faith
unquenched by defeat, she ceases not day and
night to lift up her voice in prophecy that the
triumph of the people is at hand. “ Gambettism,
that is the enemy,” she declares, and she assails
with furious eloquence all who stand in the way of
social revolution. She is nearly fifty now, this
apostle of the petroleuses; but though her
countenance is weird and haggard with the trail
of many sorrows, her lustrous eye dims with tears
as she speaks of the sufferings of the poor, and
her eloquent voice becomes tremulous with emo-
tion as she pleads for those who are opressed and
have no helper. Sometimes her reason seems
almost to reel in contemplation of the woes and
miseries of humanity, from which the only relief
is the exultant thought of gratified vengeance
when the social revolution achieves its long-
expected triumph.
LATE SPORTING.
Vickers coaches the Victorian eight.
Football has commenced in Melbourne.
Callaohor played a dashing innings on Saturday
for 31.
The St. Leonards’ Swimming Club now numbers
over 50 members.
The Melbourne Trotting Club has been granted
a course at Elstemwick.
No money seems to be forthcoming in Melbourne
for the Laycock testimonial.
The Treasury and Survey Department are to
play an Intercolonial this week.
People want to know why none of the Messrs.
Fairbaim are in the Victorian eight.
Aspen’s victory in the Newmarket Handicap
put £4OOO into Mr. Whittingham’s pocket.
M'Crea missed Massie when he was about 10.
Should Massie make a big score it is likely there will be
an inquest.
Midwinter leaves for England this month. He
has made up his mind to return to Australia with a
team of cricketers.
Ned Gough, the well-known Victorian book-
maker, was thrown from his buggy while returning
from the Bacchus Marsh races and fractured his skull
badly.
Joe Sadler, the ex-champion, and “Daddy”
Wootton, rowed a double-scull race at Teddington the
other day against Dick Hammerton and George Lee.
The former won easily.
The London Sportsman has given for com-
petition a trophy emblematic of the championship of
Die world at pigeon-shooting. The first contest was to
take place in February.
Wallace Ross and R. W. Boyd have made a
match to row a race on the Thames some time in
August next—probably the 15th, that being the date
proposed by the Canadian.
Geary’s 41 not out will give him a show for
for the next Intercolonial match. The Victorians
think that Geary should be selected in every big match.
Possibly they would rather meet him than Evans.
The Hobart Mercury publishes a telegram t®
the effect that great unpleasantness existed between
the two elevens in the recent big match in Sydney,
the two teams declining to play with each other, &c.
A team, selected from the employes of Messrs.
David Jones and Cos., played an eleven from Former's,
on the ground of the latter, on the 12th inst. The
result was a victory for David Jones & Cos., by 45runs.
Murdoch told Bannerman that his team would
play a return match with the combined team if they
liked. Charley replied, “ Yes, Billy, but who is to get
the sugar—the best team or the other ?’’ No reply up
to date.
Wm. Taylor, of Clerkenwell (1471 b.), and Thos.
Longer (1561 b.), fought near London on 10th Jan. The
mill was a lively one, and lasted Ih. 33m , at the end of
which time Longer, who had had much the worst of
the encounter, gave in.
L. E. Myers, the wonderful American runner, is
being sent to Kngland by the Manhattan Athletic Club
to compete as their representative at the amateur
champion-hip games ut Lillie Bridge in July. Myers
has beaten all amateur records up to a mile.
Baker, the well-known pedestrian, is engaged
In Melbourne at present in endeavouring to walk 450
miles in six days and six nights, and J. W. Craig, of
Adelaide, essays to walk 1250 miles in 1000 hours—a
mile and a quarter every consecutive hour.
On Saturday evening, at Moore Park, that
promising ped., J. Harper, raced S. Dunn, a well-known
runner, for a ten-guinea trophy. The distance was 100
yards. Both men came to the post in good fettle, and
a splendid start was effected. Harper won easily by
three yards.
On the Association Ground the other day, Ned
Gregory’s eldest daughter found and restored to its
owner £IOO, which had been dropped. It is said that
she has not yet even been thanked for her honesty. And,
by the way, why doesn’t the Association go to work in
re Ned’s benefit ?
The latest soratchings for the forthcoming events
are: Sydney Cup- Doctor, Eucalyptus, Austrian Boiar,
and Waterloo. Champagne Stakes—Monmouth, Polly,
and Gloster. Sires’ Produce Stakes—Monmouth, Glos-
ter, and the Mainbrace filly. Substitute Stakes—Polly,
John, and Hesper.
The Parramatta Muffs are so satisfied with their
cricket that twenty-two of them intend to tackle the
Alfreds for a dinner. The gentleman who was stumped
when he went off his crease to get his bat has been
studying Ironside’s Guide ever since, and will have to
be got out legitimately next time.
The Newcastle Ironclad cricket club secured
their eighth victory for the Waddy Challenge Cup on
Saturday, beating sixteen of the Advance Club, of
Singleton.by one innings and 94 runs. The scores were:
innings, 67; second innings, 38.
The hon. secretary of the Parramatta Defence
C.C. writes us complaining that the Milbrodale GO.,
who' had made an appointment for a match on 12 th
March failed to put in an appearance, and made no
apology or explanation for doing so. He says that no
dependence can be placed on the Milbrodales.
The City Bowling Green, in Cook Park, was
opened on Saturday afternoon The ceremony was
attended by about 300 ladies and gentlemen. The Club
now numbers 100 members, and has spent £440 in form-
in,, the green, and £l6O on the erection of a pavilion.
Sir Alfred Stephen presided at the affair, and
delivered a telling speech in defence of the action of
the trustees in granting the site to the Club.
Several matches were contested at the Hand-
ball Court, Elizabeth-street, on Saturday afternoon.
In double-handed game between Messrs. M’Lachlan and
Hardman and Messrs. Welsh and Cummings, the latter
won easily. Dillon and Hogan contended for a
trophy, first three 21’s up, Dillon proving the victor.
Dillon and Langan’s match is not likely to be arranged.
A match took place on Saturday, on the Peters-
sham Ground, between the Petersham and Belvidere
clubs, which resulted in a draw—very much in favour
of the local team. The Petersham team made 137 runs,
of which the principal scorers were A. Loveridge 59,
T Loveridge (not out) 18, G. Seale 14, and C. Seale 10.
The Belvidere eleven lost 8 wickets for 51 runs when
time was called. Marr and T. Loveridge were very
effective in the bowling, the latter securing 8 wickets
for 19 runs.
Several matches took place on Randwick race
course on Saturday afternoon. The flmt trot waa m
harness between Mr. Gate’s Quilp, and Mr. Brown s
Shoo-Fly. four miles for £2O aside, and resulted ma
very eaJy victory for the former Mr. J.
Nancy, and Mr. Noonan’s King BUly, trotted three
miles for £lO aside, Nancy winning with the greatest
pase. A flat race for half a mile between G. Davis's
Garryowen, and J. Simpson's Berragamble, for £15
aside, was won by Garryowen.
The following players will represent the Glebe
and Balmain respectively in the match for the Borough
Challenge Cup, to be played on Monday next at the
Association GroundGlebe. —Apperty, Burcher. Bur-
ton, James Dummett, Egan. Evans, Harkins, Kelly,
Maidment, Sullivan, and Westman; Mil wain 12th.
Scorer Mr. H. Priestly, and umpire Mr. L. Priddey.
Balmain, —Austin, Barnes, ;Catt, Creer, Deane, Elder,
Highland, G. Murdoch. Prothero, Keeder, and Robin-
son. Umpire, Mr. W. E. Beaver.
Duff and Callaghan, accomplished “ pugs.” had
a lively mill, which came off altogether without inter
ference, about 18 miles from Dublin, on 7th Jan. Duff
stands 5ft. 9in, turned the scale at 1741b., and is about
30 years of age. Callaghan appears a few years older,
about an inch lower in stature, but is a square-built,
powerfully-made man, weighing I72ib. The weather on
the morning of the fight was terribly cold. After 48
minutes, during which a dozen rounds were fought.
Duff left off a clever victor. Both men were consider-
ably punished. Duff expects to get on a more impor-
tant affair in England.
A two-days’ match was commenced on Saturday
afternoon, on the Association Ground, between the
Albert and Carlton clubs. The Carltons went first to
the wickets, and when the last wicket fell at half-past
five, the respectable score of 216 runs had been ob-
tained. The principal scorers were Davis 48, Gregory,
not out, 41, Callachor 31, M’Crea 21, Bunn, 27, and
Wearne 18. Massie and A. Gregory opened the Albert
innings, and when time was called had obtained 43 runs
between them, Massie, not out, 21, and A. Gregory, not
out, 22. Massie gave an easy chance off one of Wearne’s
full-pitchers to M’Crea, who was standing fine cover
point, but that coming batsman declined it. _ The match
will be continued next Saturday, but we think that the
premier club will this time sustain a defeat.
In the matter of Mr. W. Long’s statement,
made in a letter to the Atiotts, that he will “only
scratch his horse at his own convenience,” and his
caution to the public not to back his horses until they
appear on the racecourse, “ Will. Honeycomb," of the
Dubbo Dispatch, says:—“This is good advice, no
doubt, but it would have been better if it did not come
a day after the fair. Thinking over this matter, I can-
not help recalling poor Lindsay Gordon’s lines
“ A gentleman rider—well I’m an outsider !
But if he’s a gent., who the mischief’s a jock ?
Your gents, mostly blunder, Dick rides for the plunder—
He rides too like thunder, and sits like a rock.”
Professor Cavill’s aquatic carnival at Lavender
Bay Baths, on Saturday, was very enjoyable. The
weather was splendid, a band attended, and there was a
large assemblage of spectators—among them a fair
sprinkling of ladies. The Professor and his clever
children gave an interesting exhibition of their swim
ming powers, and showed that they were thoroughly
imbued with a caccithts natandi. Little Adeline and
Tommy (who is only three years old) proved that they
were as much at home in the “briny deep” as on dry
land. In the polo (or, more properly, aquatic handball)
match, the St. Leonards Swimming Club “ ran away”
altogether from their opponents, the Port Jackson
Swimming Club. The sports wound up with a water
tournament, in which the two young Cavills engaged—
the “ cavillry” consisting of a sea-horse and a dolphin.
The committee of the Woolloomooloo Bay
Amateur Regatta are to be congratulated on the
success that attended their exertions to provide an
excellent programme on Saturday afternoon. The
Emu, steamer, moored off Potts’ Point, was the flag-
ship, and a large number of visitors were on board
Following are the results of the various contestsAll
yachts under 9 tons, handicapped, Australian, . 1.
Maiden oarsmen, members of rowing clubs, pulling
four oars in string-test gigs, fixed seats. G.R C.—J.
Doutty, C. Smith, F. Bull, A. Ickerson (stroke), 1. All
open boats, 20 feet and over, handicapped. Butter-
H. Carpenter, 1. Open boats, not exceeding 21 feet,
handicapped. Lizzie, W. Johnson, 1. Open boats, not
exceeding 22 feet. Rosetta, H. Clark, 1. Junior
Scullers’, members of rowing clubs, pulling a pair of
sculls in club skiffs. A,T, —A. P. Bios, 1. All 18 and
19 feet skiffs, handicapped. Desdemona, _ P. O.
Williams. 1. All Dingies, 16 feet. Ettie, S. Wilson, 1.
All Dingies 14 feet. Alice, M. Crawford, 1. All canvas
dingies. Daisy, A. Roderick, 1. All Senior Scullers’,
members of rowing clubs who have never won a senior
scullers' race pulling a pair of sculls in club skiffs.
A.t.—A. P. Bros, 1. All-comers’ Race, pulling a pair of
sculls in light skiffs, handicapped. Vivid, J. Lynch, a
feather, 1; Beeswing, J. J. Power, 2; Progress, G.
Solomon, 3. Solomon was fouled by the Oithonayacht,
and Reynolds broke his scull when he was leading by
some lengths.
On 19th January, in London, John Thompson
had a semi-public trial with the gloves, his opponent
being the celebrated Ned Donnelly. Thompson had
before leaving expressed a desire to have a “ go” with a
first-class professional, and, having arranged satisfac-
torily with Donnelly, a few friends were invited to
witness the performance, which took place in a West
End saloon. On appearing from the dressing room (save
the Sporting Life), Ned looked wonderfully big, while
the Australian was the picture of health and strength,
his fine figure being generally admired. Any number of
cloves were found to select from, and, allbeinirin readi-
ness, the referee, Mr. B. J. Algle, T.R.C. and W.L.B.G.
(ex-champion), called “Time!” and the bout com-
menced. Donnelly was the first to lead off with the
left on the neck with the open glove, his intention being
evidently to find out Jack’s tactics. At first Jack
appeared somewhat abroad, owing to the shortness and
agility of the professor. It was not long, however,
before the “ long ’un” found Donnelly’s jaw with both
hands, and a merry little time followed, Thompson
planting one or two on the mouth and nose, whilst in
return he got it in the chest and stomach. Both now
tried all they knew, and when the round was concluded,
there was nothing to choose between the pair. After
the minute’s interval, “ Jack” caused the professor to
lead off, after which the Australian let fly both hands—
one on the mouth and a heavy cross on the jaw. Don-
nelly now woke up, and sent his left well home in the
wind and face twice, which brought on a sharp rally.
Then with great rapidity they kept countering heavily,
until another rally caused “ Time” to be called. The
third round was of a give and-take order, Donnelly
being somewhat blown, but with wonderful activity he
got over and under the Australian’s guard, and delivered
one or two stingers, getting in return some hard
thumps with the left and one or two warm cross-
counters with the right, and when they had been at it
the requisite number of minutes they shook hands
heartily, and indulged in a bottle of “ cham.” Thomp-
son surprised all present, and his performance with
such a [scientific exponent as Professor Ned Donnelly,
stamps him as a downright good man; indeed, Ned
afterwards told our representative that during the first
two rounds he tried all he knew, but found that, like
him, the Australian knew how to “ hit, stop, and get
away.”
The portrait of His Honor Sir James Martin,
P T published in our last issue, was engraved from a
splendid likeness by Mr. J. Hubert Newman, of Oxford-
street, Hyde Park.
Wolffe’s schnapps ! There are three or four
instances now before the medical profession wnere the
use of Wolffe’s schnapps has acted with almost elec-
trical effect in serious cases of feminine debility.
Wines spirits, and other stimulants failed in their
effect ’while the schnapps, taken morning noon, and
evening, improved the appetite, assisted the digestion,
imparted much needed rest.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Marshall has been engaged for the Melbourne
iloyal.
H. N. Douglass joins the dramatic company at
the Royal, Melbourne.
Last night of “ Pinafore ” to-night; first night
of the “ Pirates " os Saturday.
“ The Peep o’ Day Boys ” has been played to
poor houses at the Queen’s during the week.
“Pinafore” was first played in Sydney. Now
we hare first taste of the “ Pirates of Penzance.”
Miss Clara Hamilton, a clever young vocalist,
has given a very successful concert at the Protestant
Hall.
The Austrian Band’s moonlight excursion in the
Fairlight, to Manly Beach, on the 15th, was very
successful.
“ H.M.S. Pinafore,” after a very long and un-
precedently prosperous cruise, has been seized by
“ Pirates."
Dr. Torrance lost ,£ll6 by the production of his
musical compositions at Melbourne Town Hall “for
the benefit ” of the School of Music.
The English theatrical obituary for the month
includes the names of Miss Patti Oliver, Jemmy Stoyle,
the eldest son of Mr. J. H. Jennings, and Mr. Fred.
Hughes.
Madame Gabriella Boema and Signor Agnes
Palma sing at the Garden Palace this (Thursday)
evening, in conjunction with the performances of the
Austrian Baud.
The management of the Theatre Royal will
sacrifice at least £2OO by closing the house to-morrow
night in order to have full dress and scenic rehearsal of
the “ Pirates of Penzance.”
The Lyceum Amateur Dramatic Club intend
j making their first show on April Bth, in “ Self-
-1 Accusation ” and “ In Possession.” in which the well-
known amateurs, Messrs. Levey, Leslie, and Bowden,
will appear.
j At the Leicester Theatre Royal, a richly-dressed
young ladv, seated in the amphitheatre, threw her
bonnet into the pit, and then tried to throw herself
after it. Her fall was broken, otherwise her bones
would have been. “ D.T." caused this rash action.
The charity concert given by M. Kowalski, at
the Gaiety Theatre on Wednesday, was very numerously
attended, most of the leading musicians and critics of
the city being present. The proceeds, to be devoted to
the charities of the city, have been handed over to the
Mayor.
An English Opera Company, consisting of the
following artistes, is now playing at Hamilton (Vic.)
Messrs. Charles Florence, J. Drayton, T. B. Browning.
G. A. Johnson, H. Trevorah, Miss Trevorab, Miss Maud
Walton, and Mrs. J H Fox. They were billed to open
on Monday night in “ Maritana.”
FOB SHAME!
'* Do you wear symmetricals ?” asked a scribe
Of an actress young and fair.
“ I do!” she replied, with a roseate blush,
“ Bat Nature’s fashioned them there!”
“ Pinafore ” now drawing to a close, we cannot
let the occasion pass without congratulating Signor
Bartolomeotti’s daughter (Miss Liddiard) on her
charming impersonation of Cousin Hebe. As we pro-
phesied many months ago, when the young lady was
playing in “ Tender Jim,” she has come rapidly to the
fore in her profession.
Mr. and Mrs. Hewett (the Musettes) have been
very successful at the School of Arts, in their charming
operetta, “ Zip.” The piece gives opportunity for
dramatic and musical display, and both Mr. Hewitt
and his talented wife are equal to the demands made
upon them. By great diversity of talent, they maintain
the interest of the piece from first to Isat and give a
most enjoyable two hours’ entertainment.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Francis H. Danson”: M'Donald’s Dramatic
Agency, Melbourne will, nodoubt, find Mr. Pollock.
“Jas. F. Hardy" (Brisbane): The purport of your
letter appears in a sporting paragraph. “W. M”:
Very acceptable. “ Anonymous" (Newcastle): If we
knew to whom you refer, we d certainly post your mean
letter to him. “P W. E.”: Capital story. “W.
Murgen" We must have something definite “F.
W. M. ’: Delightful yarn. “P. B. M.": Possibly
spiteful. “F. A.”: First item uninteresting; for
the second we must have your address. “P. G. B.”:
Mere uninteresting personality. “3. M. C.”
(Ulmarra): PO. order or stamps. “W. B.”:
Received. “ G M’G.”: We use the copy. “S.M.T.
C.” (Adelong): Pointless personalities. Send us some-
thing with; a joke in it. “Bill Berry”: Under con-
sideration. “ Milo”: Capital. —— “ John Collins”:
Much obliged. “Veni” (Braid wood): Would no
doubt afford local, bnt not general, amusement.
“ T." (Meutoun): Much obliged, but hardly suitable.
“ A E." (St. Hilda): Very well. “ Titus ” (Oates,
probably): We can only make out your signature.
“ M.P.": We’ll be glad to hear from you.—Stock ”:
You are a cowardly dog. Don’t you think so too?
“W.Q.8.”: Malicious. “ W.8.H.” : Thanks. We
have somewhat condensed your interesting copy.
Verse held over. “Yesmek”. Most acceptable.
“W.C.8.”: Personal, and nothing more. “Guil-
laume” (Albury): We aren’t so easily offended. The
man who tabes the trouble to abuse ns in jjriat merely
advertises The Bulletin, and “ gnaws a hie.” “J.
R T.”: Judging from your own statement, and from the
verse you send us, you were born to be a “ dumb poet ”
—one who, like the average young man who responds
for “The ladies,” feels a great many things which he
can’t express. Besides being mechanically bad, “ True
and Steadfast ” is wanting.in the essential attribute of
poetic feeling. However, try again, but re-ad before you
write. “ J.S.H.”: Your communication, if printed,
would appear spiteful. There’s nothing really
funny in the anecdote. “Murrurundi”: Thanks.
" Truth and Generosity,” &o.: We don’t understand,
and therefore cannot print your paragraph.— —“E. E.”:
You’re not a literary success. “Subscriber” (Ade-
long): Capital. “Naomi”: Very good. “A.8.C.”:
See “ Fact Focused ” “ Demalmaison”: Why should
we print such bunkum ? “ Mon Eoi”: Good senti-
ment, bad verse. Don’t attempt so difficult a measure
try iambics. “Sam Bough”; worth
noticing them this time. “T. 8.”: Received.
“Cornstalk.’’; Will consider. “Sec. Excelsior C.
C.”: Too late; match reports must be in Tuesday after.
noon •* G. W.”: Received- “Postman": Will
consider for next issue. “W. E. N.”: Received.
However, we must have more definite information
about such matters. “Veritas”: Next issue.
“A. B C.’’: Received “Manly”: No, thank you.
“Moonlight”: Will be considered. “A. V.”
(West Maitland): Too transparent. “ Picnic,” &o.:
Will read it “ L. A.": Very interesting items.
“H. H.” (Yass); Next week. ‘M. J. G.”: We have
no knowledge of the letter to which you refer.
«S. A. G”: Your muse halts ; must be “ touched up ”
before being presented. “ Catch”: Thanks.
“999”: Hope to hear from you again. “F.L.":
Rather late for this issue. Will be considered.


T
HE ONLY ELECTRIC-LIGHTED SUN-BCLIPStNG BI
THE BKINY DEEP.
THE LARGEST AND BEST CIRCUS EVER
AT SYDNEY, TWELVE DAY
GOMMEI
REPRODUC
ALL EARTH’S
tinder i
BRUSH-DYN
in i
tv. w. cc
1
AND CONGEE
W. W. COLE’S
CIRCUS, MENK
AND CONGRESS OF LIVE
Illuminated throughout by the dazzling Electric Light, the n
literally turning night to da
THE ONLY SHOW THAT FAITHFULLY K
Presenting every feature advertised, and permitting no “ p«
First appearance on the Continent of the World
The Heroine Hurdle Rider
By all nations crowned “Queen of the Blazing Zone”—in her Darii
through Hoops of Fire, and fearless ventures which require
The Adonis of the Arena William O’]
Peerless Horseman and Summersaultist Mr. Wooda C
The Greatest of all Lady Riders
The Equestrian Queen
The Beautiful and Dashing Empress of the Air
Earth’s Greatest Character Rider
The only and. Original ißrial Bicycle Riders...
m
ii
ills
Pm
# ¥
m
j\
BICTCLE RIDING
■MI. i
LIVING TAB
BY THE
PERFORM
STALLIQ
JUST AS REP.RE!
The Champion Acrobats of Every Clime.
The Great Horizontal Bar Team
The Most Comical of all Clowns
/3rt*An4> CLnlvAnMAnu'oa. To —A
NO. 1 DAE LINO ST
HARBOUR STRE
ILLUSTRATED PRICE L
The wondeeful
SEWING MACHINES, wit
tacking (or basting), without the i
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells ; wi
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, qnilt, hem, ai
embroider curtains or antimaeassa
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at onr office
trades can be supplied. They are s
in running, strong, handsome, a
machine may be had on trial, ENI
CHARGE. Instruction at YOL
free. Every WERTHEIM Machi:
KEPT IN REPAIR and workii
YEARS from the date of purchase
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OP CHARG
samples by post. Country age
liberal terms. BEALE and C<
street, near Market-street, and
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcast
Bathurst. No matter in what pai
live, we will supply vou wit]
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM
INTEREST.
MPEOVED HOME
LOCK STICK
SEWING MAC
t: Junk'ilnf SlnßKfSi?,*-
The Andreas estate, Petershai
son and Wreach, last Saturday, rei
What’s the name of the ne
soliciting subscriptions for a tes
We are informed by Mr. Som
the Melbourne Daily Telegraph,
that that journal has changed han
Amongst the most noticeable
street (that celebrated street fo:
Hordern’s Carpets. We have bou
astonishing price of Is lid —the I
cannot beat this.—Advt.
The American Novelty Compa
has been crowded during the week,
proprietors inform us —upon the ai
in last week’s Bulletin. On Sal
very large assemblage of the public
a popular promedado, and every fac
public t> inspect the innumerabh
exhibited.
“ I have analysed an original
Mixture, and I certify that it is
uncoloured teas, and admirably fla
and harmless scenting, which rend
I recommend it as being a whole
article of diet.—Karl Theodore
■ chemist.”—Advt.
WINE GROWER AND 1
Splendid DINNER WINES, fron
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 2lr,
PINE OLD WINES, suitable for
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS: 40 H
Country Orders receive proi
£JOALCLIP]
When first sold in Sydney (fwei
lowest uavahle nriee whs flveri TO
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Tichborne claimant not to be released.
Transvaal war negotiations still pending.
Large seizure of arms and pikes at Cork.
London wool sales, May 10, long catalogue.
Rumours of Gladstone’s approaching resigna-
tion.
Irish Land Leaguers being well treated in
prison.
Undiminished activity among the Irish Land
Leaguers.
The Globe favours the Victorian policy of
Protection.
The P. and O. Co.’s s.s. Cathay arrived on Wed"
ueaday with the Suez mails.
Alexander Aloxandrovitch proclaimed Emperor
of Eussia. St. Petersburg quiet.
Afghan war cost .£17,000,000, of which the
Imperial Government pays £5,000,000, —the Indian
revenue the rest.
An impression prevails that the death of
Alexander 11. will force a speedy solution of the
Eastern question.
Sullivan, the notorious Maunsratapu (New
Zealand) murderer, died last week at Wagga Hospital.
At least, the police say so.
The release of Mr. P. Boyton, head organiser of
Irish Laud League, who is an American citizen, de-
manded by American Minister.
The Home Rule party has agreed not to obstruct
the passing of Supplies, except in the matter of votes
for services in connection with Ireland.
Carrying of Arms Licensing Bill, after much
opposition from Irish members, has passed the
Commons. ClSture enforced during debate.
The British Government has wired Sir Hercules
Eobinsm at the Cape that, if necessary, he may pro-
ong the pres nt armistice until the 18th inst.
Purnell, in speech in the House of Commons,
calU for drastic reforms in the Irish Land Laws. He
condemns the Liberal Government as enemies of
Ireland.
The Speaker of the House of Commons has
ruled that he must recognise Mr. Bradlangh as the
member for Northampton until otherwise ordered by
the House.
Action against Bradlaugh, for illegally taking
part in the proceedings of Parliament, still before the
English law courts. Bradlaugh’s demurrer disallowed
by the Jndges.
Gladstone Government defeated on the question
of the urgency of the Supply Bill. The Conservatives
contended that the freest discussion should be allowed
on all financial questions.
Czar of Russia assassinated at St. Petersburg,
March 13. His Majesty and a numerous suite were
witnessing a grand parade of the Imperial troops, when
suddenly two bombs exploded at short intervals. The
first bomb, although it burst in the immediate vicinity
of the Imperial party, failed to strike its smark,
the C?'jr and his suite escaping untouched. Almost
immediately afterwards a. second and more terrific ex-
plosion took place. His Majesty's legs were completely
shattered by the explosion, and ho fell mortally
wounded. The greatest consternation prevailed among
those who were present, but they speedily conveyed his
Majesty to a hoase, where he died two hours after-
wards from loss of blood. His suite and others who
were present with his Majesty likewise suffered greatly,
many of them being killed and wounded. The assassin,
who is a student, was arrested on the spot. The
Emperor’s brother, who was in the Imperial carriage
with the Czar, escaped unhurt. The assassin main-
tains a profound silence.


MARTIN &
SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
PLOUGHS.
Single-furrow Ploughs. We have the largest assortment of Ploughs in the colony, and can suit the
requirements of every district. Farmers, write US for information. We post Illustrations and Price Lists Free.
HORNBY’S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
HOWARD’S New Pattern Ploughs, j'j?* brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
RANSOMBS’ New Pattern Ploughs, all sizes.
RITCHIE’S “ Colonial-made ” Ploughs, Nos. 1,2,
and 3. This is a favourite make in many districts.
We invite Correspondence, and famish every
information promptly and free.
HARROWS—ZIGZAG, DRAG, CHAIN, &c,
We recommend BOWAgjj'9 as the best Harrows of their class, but
have other makes, some of which are in good demand in several districts.
Also,
LARKWORTHY’S,
Howard’s
Z igzag
Harrows.
I Nos. 14,12,11,10.
VWidth 81, 91, 10, 10J ft.
Weight IJ. l|, f* " '
, 2s, 2J cwt.
Oar Stock of Harrows includes all the best known makes.
sizes. Write us for information.
PAGE’S,
RANDALL’S, &C.
We have all
-389 GEORGE STREET,
&
SYDNEY.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHURST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents fob Messes. Tangte Bbos., Birmingham.
Miscellaneous
B
EISCOE, DEYSoALE AND CO.
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street
lEONMON GEES, lEONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPOETEES.
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the lates reductions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Eims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Eequisites, Wire,'Galv. Iron, Woolpaoks,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Hope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENEEAL lEONMONGEEY.
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MEEICAN MACHINSEY DEPOT.
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellere
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
H. P. GEEGOEY AND CO.,
N*. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions o
CHINE
Have for Sale—
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
E
Y,
A. Fay and Co. s First Special Prize
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality quabanteed, Ac., Ac,
Send for Circulars and Prices.
118
KING
STREET
SYONE'
TAILOR
foßrjy
N/Wa
m
5 •'
M
e*.
’ftlfUcE
m
post office:
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
mumr/p.
-f® TO ORDER."^!:
FIT GUARANTEED!
jAlt HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS,
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
J.
MENTON,
BELMORE HOUSE.
305 Pitt-street,
MILLINER, UNDERCLOTHIER, FANCY DRAPER,
AND ARTIFICIAL FLORIST,
Very pretty BONNETS and HATS in beaver, plush,
velvet, cream, and black Spanish lace.
Beautiful MILLINERY SETS in plush or velvet.
The new TOQUE, COLLAR, and MUFF, to match,
40s. the set; made of best plush, to suit any dress.
Novelties n HEAD-DRESSES and EVENING
FLOWERS.
Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHIJTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN DA NES,
IMPOETEE OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasflt tings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEET, SYDNEY.
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL ,
ALLWOOL
i6s.6<r. t \T
I > MM f|iir LENGTHS
_AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
JOOOPATTERNS'CHOOSE FROM
H LSUMMERFIELO
PITT.S T SYON£Y.
A COMPLETE SYSTEM OF
SELF-MEASUREMENT WITH PATTERNS
WILL BE SENT
POST FREE, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
jg GREER AND CO.’S
PEI Z E
ALBUEY WINES.
Eed Wines :
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Wines i
Eeisling
Y erdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLAES:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY : Printed and pnblished by the Propnetors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at the Offices oi
John Woods & Co., Bridge-street.
4
4
QANDT’S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY'S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S PILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY.
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Cbabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
EYES
PERFECT
PURIFIER
(PATENT
Non-poisonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials ;
From Dr. Dansey; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., As Meld:—For a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desirg anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., inspector of Asylumn, Sydney : —Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M. D., Mudgee: —Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Mends, Sydney:— My child had sore eyes for 21 years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, and Jaques, solicitors), Sydney ;—For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W. N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London, Agents wanted for the Country.
BATHS.
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, opposite Palmer-street,
PRACTICAL HAIRCUTTER,
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR - WORKER, STAGE AND STEEET WIG - MAKER.
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings of Ladies’ Hair worked as required.
Note the address— Oxford- street, opposite Palmer-street.
CD
<*
D-
CC
<s
cr^
SW)
Buy
>TV
PR
IZE
co
ainst the world
Elarper & Co.’s
Jannfactnres
vere awarded
r First Prizes
and the
fecial First
he best of their
is in the Sydney
smational Exhi-
on, 1879-80.
•TAI,
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
CD
cc
cc
BUY
P
PRIZE
co
-<
E. GORDON,
HOMCEPATHIST.
No. 2 Hyde Park Terrace,
171 Liverpool-street,
Eradicates hereditary diseases
in the young, and chronic com-
plaints in the adult, and holds
references for the cure of
Typhoid, Bilious, Intermittent,
Scarlet, and Rheumatic Fevers;
Bronchitis, Asthma, Consnmp.
tion. Pleurisy, Scarlatina, Croop,
Whooping Cough, and Dipthe-
ria; Heart, Liver, Stomach, and
Kidney complaints; Cancers,
Ulcers, Erysipelas, Scrofulous,
Dropsy, Opthalmia, and Urinary
complaints. Terms for chronic
complaints, £1 per month, pay-
able in advance ; consultations
ss. No letters answered unless
the monthly fees are paid in
advance; and patients at a dis-
tance are requested to be very
minute and particular in men-
tioning the symptoms of their
complaint.
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOCKSTICH SEWING MACHINE
Have yon not heard of it? Have you not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia—FAELElGH, NETTHEIM & 00.
