

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7.—No. 88.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1881.
Price —3d,
bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1881.
The Interminable Wrangle.
It is characteristic of the condition of political
affairs, and of the standard of public men in the
colony at the present time, that the sole debate on
the policy which should govern dealings with the
public lands has taken place on an abstract reso-
lution by a very private member indeed. As a
matter of fact, however, there is nothing especi-
ally noticeable in the circumstance that the reso-
lution should have been moved by a member not
readily distinguished from the ruck of the As-
sembly, inasmuch as, apart from the merely arti-
ficial and adventitious distinction derived from
occupying a seat in the Cabinet, there are not
half-a-dozen men in the entire Chamber who
occupy a distinct place in the public eye. Every-
one will remember the opinion expressed by the
husband of the inimitable singer, Catalani, that
quite an adequate operatic company would be
created by the employment of “ ma femme et quel-
ques poupSes ” —my wife and a few puppets. Ap-
parently the existing Government has been framed
on a similar plan. Sir Henry Pabkes and some
puppets make up its composition, and it certainly
seems quite able enough to manage the sort of
Assembly which the last general election produced.
Sir Henry himself demanded from the constitu-
encies that puppets should be returned, and the
constituencies proved entirely obliging.
• # *
Mr. Ferguson’s motion, being a watery and
dilute sort of affair, naturally produced but a
very trumpery and meaningless debate. If Mr.
Ferguson does not believe in the sales of country
lands by auction, or holds that such a mode of
dealing with the lands is injurious to the common
weal, he would have done right to go straight
at the mischief. What ho hoped to gain by
a fiddling proviso, that prohibition should be
for only two and a half years, is scarcely
comprehensible. If meant for a compromise,
with the object of stealing a march, or insti-
tuting an experiment, the device was a failure.
No adversary was disarmed or softened; and it
would have been absurd to suppose that any
would be. People who are building up estates, or
squatters who are entrenching themselves against
selectors, want to go ahead. The prospect of
getting a chance two and a half years hence has
no charms for them. If the democratic sympa-
thisers hope to be strong enough two and a half
years hence to convert a temporary prohibition
mto a permanent one, the monopolist party are
quite alive to the circumstance ; and are, more-
-oT®r|l taught by observation of events in Victoria,
8 iv £ e u ora l intelligence, that the probabilities
are that times will never get better for their ob-
jects than they are at the present.
• * *
There exists a delightful calm. Thanks to the
Agencies of politicians, the people who seemed,
oven as far back as a score of years ago, so eagerly
oent upon having the maximum of settlement on
jr* lands, have been whipped or cozened off the
ii-ant and led to yelp on a false trail altogether.
ere . has been such a halloing made about
wucation, and our Protestant supremacy, that the
majority of people seem to have forgotten that
jv} er . e ®ver was a land question at all. It is not
nely that the fox will consent to sit down where
®, 18 until the hounds discover they are at fault
nare-commence the chase. No; the hunted land-
grabber will make all the running he can while
Id °PP° rtu nity is afforded him-': and if he can
a hand to Sir Henry Pabkes in the re-
r* abl y clever sectarian dodge of that politician,
6 uiay be sure that he will lend it with a will.
* * •
»""«* be admitted, however, that Mr. Fergu-
aa« •? , ro ®°lntion was so far practical that it
"•waned the most vulnerable point of our wretched
i. ■i B^ era - It is not likely that any form of
gisiatum will prevent the accumulation of great
naf^ 8 P roc ? e ding. So long as colonial human
re continues to be as it is, the process of
aavi tlon W HI continue. But most people—at
the rn i m ° B .*' country people—know that among
attain ac ** v ? agents in helping monopolists to
Bn „ . n . tueir objects are the very persons whom
diati,T ■ , ws have been framed to protect. T®
only u U18 “ 80 lector from the dummy has not
than mor ? than the law could do, but more
conl.l 6 beab Informed person behind the scenes
have + a ma tter of fact, men who
of selections wito a hone, fide intention
raaann definitely upon the land have seen
it Tnrv 3a „ r a w hile to change their plan, finding
BetrHo ° P r °fitable to sell to the run-owner than to
Plan f° r CQ ltivate. The only true and effectual
to PTB ° r Preventing speculative selection would be
land ft 0 * tae a °tnal marketable value of the
teanfl?™ selector, so that there would be no
draw d 10n r e-Bell. But to attempt this would
united protest alike from lona fide and
dummy selectors, in esse and in posse, which
would intimidate any Ministry. The nearest ap-
proach to this is undoubtedly the auction system,
the very system which Mr. Ferguson con-
demned. There are objections—the gravest
objections—to this, also, as it is worked. As Mr.
Copeland remarked, as now arranged, it is
auction only in name. In many instances the
process amounts merely to selection by purchase,
at an inadequate price.
• • m
A combination of forces could readily be pro-
cured in the country, to put down auction sales of
country lands, inasmuch as the dummy selector
detests that system quite as heartily as the hona
fide selector—indeed, more heartily, tor it inter-
feres with his special occupation. But, not even
the abolition of auction will purge the original
evil of our land laws. These must work out their
own mischief and their own remedy. So soon as
there remains but scanty area to be alienated, and
the dummy finds his occupation gone at the same
time as the population discover that the entire
available territory is held in few hands, and there
is no longer a chance for would-be settlers, there
will be a down-right combination in thorough
earnest to pull down what they themselves had
before found their account in building up.
Mr. Walter Reynolds.
Among the rising men connected with the Drama
and Belles-lettres in Australasia, Mr. Walter
Reynolds, of whom we give a portrait, is one
upon whom considerable expectations are placed.
Mr. Reynold is young, energetic, and well-edu-
cated. He was born in 1852, at London, and re-
ceived his education at St. Omer’s, in France,
until he had reached the age of 12, when, in
consequence of the death of his parents, his
schooling came to an abrupt close, and he was
thrown at that early stage of life upon his own
resources. The boy had a hard fight in London
to keep his head above water, and in 1872, being
then 20 years of age, he adopted the stage as his
profession, appearing in a small part at the Globe
Theatre, London. Once on the boards, Mr.
Reynolds felt that he had found his vocation. Ho
attached himself to various travelling companies,
and with them toured the United Kingdom, pro-
fessionally, from Land’s End to John O’Groab’s,
learning his business, and steadily working his
way upward. In 1877 he had progressed suffi-
ciently to come out as a star at the Queen’s
Theatre, Dublin, in the part of Shaun the Post
in Boucioault’s drama, “Arrah-na-Pogue.” Al-
ready he had felt the inventive faculty stirring
within him, and had essayed a drama of his own,
entitled “ Faithful,” and which was produced
during the same engagement, the author sustain-
ing, as might be expected, the leading character.
Having thus broken the ice as a dramatic author,
Mr. Reynolds kept his brains and pen moving,
and produced at the Theatre Royal, Sunderland,
a farce called “ Such a Scrape,” which had con-
siderable success. The difficulty of making his
talents felt, while oppressed by the close compe-
tition and restrictive conservatism which affects
all pursuits, the stage not excepted, in England,
chafed the young actor and author, and he struck
out for pastures new, arriving in Australia in
October, 1878. Here he speedily found the
benefit of the change of scene, and worked out a
career for himself. His energies found full scope
and his talents a readier appreciation than he could
have hoped to win until many more years should
have passed had he remained in the old world,
Mr. Reynolds has appeared in his own plays lin
every part of Australia, and has three times toured
New Zealand, on each occasion with enhanced
success. He was for six months lessee of the
Princess’ Theatre at Melbourne A dozen success-
ful comedies, and dramas, and adaptations from
the French, have proceeded his pen, and as he is
yet quite a young man, there is no saying what
fortune may have in store for him. Walter
Reynolds is one of those actors, of whom
the profession includes happily not a few, who are
as pleasant off the stage as upon the boards. An
Auckland journal the other day described him as
an actor, an author, a scholar, and a gentleman ;
and we believe that description would be heartily
endorsed in every particular by all who know him
sufficiently intimately to be in a position to form
an opinion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
On the Jericho Road.
" Obey hairs —and on an aged female head." A vener-
able vagrant was arraigned, say the police columns of
a contemporary, for drunkenness, the other day. She
must have been over 100 years of age. The deposition
clerk—one of those eternal officials, we suppose, who
seem coeval with the institutions to which they are
attached—remembered seeing her in the same dock a
quarter of a century before. Her age was then taken
to bo over 70 years, at least. The Bench declined to con-
vict, and the unfortunate, homeless creature was oast
adrift once more. It would have been cruelty in this case
to send the miserable being to gaol ; yet it seems ques-
tionable whether such a course would not have been
preferable to a total abnegation of responsibility in the
matter. One of society’s heaviest responsibilities
is that imposed by its fallen or distressed members.
The old Homans, in the height of their civilization,
had a summary method of discharging their duty in
this particular. Freighting a vessel with the maimed,
the halt, and the afflicted, and with all who were too
old, or weak, or otherwise unable to help themselves,
they towed it out to sea; and, sinking it in mid-ocean,
they rid themselves of their responsibilities and their
encumbrances by one dramatic coup. There can be no
question as to the efficacy of the process; and yet we
hesitate to recommend it. The world has advanced in
its orbit since then, and galleys that entombed society's
burdens, in the far away centuries of old, are replaced
by floating coffins for small-pox patients to-day. Our
intense practicality is evidenced in this. It is a pity it
cannot go a little farther—far enough to reach, though
with more merciful intent, the misery-stricken outcasts
of our own latter-day civilization. The instance we
adduce is an example of our powerlessness in this
direction. Her grey hairs plead for her. What can
life have left for her to cherish P Her career is all but
run. Hawthorne, in one of his thoughtful tales,
speaks of a sympathetic chain that thrills and vibrates
to the touch of Nature, as the electric coil is respon-
sive to that of the needle, wherever the heart of
humanity finds a place, or its utterances an echo.
This woman, however, is an isolated centre. Her
communication with her kind is out off. Her portion
of the electric current of humanity is run to earth.
And society is powerless to restore the connection—
its charitable instincts are at fault. After eighteen
hundred years of professions to the contrary, "passing
by on the other side " is still on acceptable escape
from inconvenient duties.
Ye Gentle Shepberde.
The life pastoral has, when viewed from a distance,
an air of exquisite simplicity and tenderness. It is like
the headline of the woolly items in the weekly papers: a
little child with an arm about a lambkin’s neck. Un’
happily, when more closely approached, it deepens and
hardens, presenting aspects whereat the good god Pan
would retire in disgust and dismay. In fact, it may
very safely he said that Pan has never sat down
upon our pastures or piped beside our streams.
The keepers of the flocks have offered him no libation,
and thus he has left them to themselves, and of them-
selve 3 they have sunk. The Australian pastoralist is a
worshipper of Fluids—he knows no other god in
heaven or earth —and offers up flesh, bones, and blood
upon the altar with devout and assiduous zeal. He
handles the flocks as the miner the strata, his only de-
sire being to knock gold ont of them by the most
expeditious means. % Hear the confession of one who
writes (upon the subject of crows:—" Furthermore, if
anyone will try to pull out the tongue of a young lamb,
ho will find it requires far more strength than that
possessed by a crow." The confession is made without
the shadow of an apology. We are to understand that
this gentleman—or pastoralist—has tested the holding
power of a young lamb’s tongue, has gone about the
somewhat rude vivisection with the unscrnpulousness
of a crow, and caws about it afterwards with the same
sagacious drone. Another fellow tells us that he shore
a bundred-and-flftv thousand sheep last year, but this
season, owing to losses through drought and shortness
of feed, he will not put through more than half that
number. That is tol say, some seventy-five thousand
innocent living creatures have starved to death beneath
his eyes, within twelve months—dropped down upon
the hot, parched plains, bogged in miry water-holes,
the crows and eagles tearing at their eyes —perished in
agony upon every rood of his wide domain. His only
concern in the matter is the unfortunate pecuniary
loss. He would laugh aloud did one tell him that he
was guilty of abominable cruelty in the matter —that
he was as much bound to provide some store of food
water for a possible dry season os is the captain of
MR. WALTER RETNOLDS.


THE GENUINE AMERICAN
HOP BITTERS!
Manufactured by the
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO. OP
ROCHESTER, N.Y., U.S.A.
are a
MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK.
The above Company are well-known as being the
originators of the
HOP BITTERS PRIZE,
The great boat race rowed on the Thames, and so suc-
cessfully carried off by the
GALLANT LAYOOCK, of AUSTRALIA.
hop bTtters
are the
PUREST, BEST, AND CHEAPEST MEDICINE
EVER MADE.
They are compounded from
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (Podophyllin),
AND DANDELION,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and Valuable
Medicines in the World, and in addition contain all
the best and most effective curative properties erf
all other Bitters, being the greatest BLOOD PURI-
FIER and life and health restoring agent on earth.
EEMEMBEB THIS 1 IF YOU ARE SICK,
HOF BITTERS
will surely aid nature in making you well again
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a resident of a mias-
matic district, barricade your system against the
scourge of all, countries—malarial, epidemic, bilious,
and intermittent fevers—by the use of
HOF BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are suffering
from any other of the numerous diseases of the
stomach or bowels, it is your own fault if you re-
main ill, for HOP BITTERS are a sovereign
remedy in all such complaints.
If you are wasting away with any form of Kidney
disease, stop tempting Death this moment, and
turn for a cure to HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sickness Ner-
vousness, you will find a “ Balm in Gilead " in the
use of HOP BITTERS.
In short, they cure ALL diseases of the Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, Ac., and
£5OO
will he paid for a case they will not cure or help, cur
for anything impure or injurious found is them.
That poor, bedridden, invalid wife, swter, mother,
or daughter, can be made the picture of health by
a few bottles of Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
|WILL YOU LET THEM SUFFER!
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering.
Large square panelled amber colour bottles. White
label with green Hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other.
Price 6s. No other form, size, or price is genuine.
American Hop Bitters Mfg. Co., Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
To be obtained at all Chemists and Druggists.
MONTEFIORE, STUART, ft CO..
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
OP. GREGORY & C 0.,
• TOBACCO MANUFACTURERS,
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.,
have appointed us their
SOLE AGENTS
for the Safe of their TOBACCOS in Australasia.
We invite particular attention to our
NEW IMPORTATIONS, JUST ARRIVED,
of
SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOBACCOS,
bearinv our Brands,
“ ORIENT” and “SOUTHERN CROSS.”
These TOBACCOS are made to our own order, selected
from the
CHOICEST VIRGINIA LEAF,
and for delicacy of flavour are unequalled by any
Tobaccos ever imported into these Colonies.
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
NJAMIN BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire
Irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantles,
* KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia —
MONTEFIORE, STUART & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1 y 1881.
MAQ-ILL’S ESTATE.
RAND WICK.
SUBDIVISION OF THIS WELL-KNOWN AND
VALUABLE ESTATE.
MAGILL’S ESTATE.
SUBDIVIDED by Me. Surveyor Atchison into
27 VILLA SITES, as follows:
9 ALLOTMENTS
fronting
6 ALLOTMENTS
fronting
12 ALLOTMENTS
fronting
BOTANY STREET,
HAY STREET,
MAGILL-STREET.
Also,
FAMILY RESIDENCE, known as VIOLET HALL,
fronting BOTANY-STREET, for many years occu-
pied by Mr. Magill, built of brick, and containing 7
rooms, kitchen, bathroom, man’s room, laundry,
&c., together with stables, &c.
«3"This property is situate next property 0£
Mr. Pearce, and opposite the Reserve.
*** The land is now being pegged out by Mr
Licensed Surveyor Atchison.
TITLE—Apply to H. R. Wat, Esq., solicitor,
Elizabeth-street.
HARDIE & GORMAN
HAVE received instructions to sell by public
auction,
ON THE GROUND,
at 3 o’clock, on
SATURDAY, Ist OCTOBER
THE MAGILL ESTATE,
EANDWICK
PLAN ON VIEW AT THE ROOMS.
SSTLITHOS. OBTAINABLE AT THE ROOMS.
■gERRIMA DISTRICT RACES.
TO BE BUN ON THE NEW COURSE, NEAR
MOSS VALE RAILWAY STATION,
on THURSDAY and FRIDAY, 20th and
21st October, 1881.
Nominations for Browley and Berrima Handicaps
must reach the Secretary by 7 p.m. on Tuesday, 11th
October. Weights to appear in the Evening News
and EcHOJon Thursday following. Non-acceptances on
night of General Entry.
MAIDEN PLATE of 2 sovs each, with 30 sovs. added
(open to winners of Two-year-old Stakes, carrying
a penalty of 51b); penalty for winning after
entrance 51b; 1| mile; weight for age.
PRINCE OP WALES STAKES of 1 sov each with
20 sovs added; once round; weight for age; the
winner to be sold immediately after the race for
£4O; if entered to be sold for £3O, allowed 71b; if
£2O, 141 b if for £lO, 281 b; any surplus over selling
price to go to ’•ace fund.
THE BROWLEY HANDICAP of 2 sovs each, with 60
sovs added; once round and a distance; second
horse 6 sovs from the prize. Nomination, 1 sov.
THE HELTER SKELTER (handicap) of 10 sovs ;
once round; winner to be sold for £2O, any surplus
to go to race fund.
THE FLYING HANDICAP of 1 sov each, with 20
sovs added ; second horse, 5 sovs from the prize; 7
furlongs ; weight declared after Browley Handicap.
THE HACK HANDICAP of 5 sovs; once round; post
entrance, 10s.
SECOND DAY.
THE TRIAL STAKES (handicap) of 1 sov each, with
20 sovs added; once round.
THE NOVEL RACE of 30 sovs, for all horses to be
handicapped ; 1 mile and a distance; the winner to
be sold immediately after the race for the upset
price of 1 sov ; any surplus over that amount to
go to the race fund. Entrance, 1 sov.
THE BERRIMA HANDICAP of 3 sovs each, with
75 sovs added; second horse to receive 10 sovs from
prize ; 2 miles ; nomination, 1 sov. The winner of
Browley Handicap to carry a penalty of 7 lb.
THE LADIES’ MILE of 1 sov each, with 25 sovs
added; one mile ; weights on second day after the
result of the Berrima Handicap.
THE HACK HANDICAP of 5 sovs ; | of a mile;
post entrance, 10s.
FAREWELL HANDICAP of 1 sov. each, with 20
sovs added: to be handicapped on the course at
4 p .m : second horse, 5 sovs from the prize.
RULES AND REGULATIONS.
A. J.C. Rules strictly adhered to, except where other-
wise specified.
All entrances, except where otherwise specified, to be
sent to the Secretary, undercover, endorsed “ Entrances
for Races,” not later than 8 p.m. on Saturday, 15th Oct.
(night of General Entry).
Three entrances in each event, and throe acceptances
in handicaps, or no race.
No protest will be received unless accompanied by
1 sov., which will be forfeited if not proved.
All disputes, claims, and objections, arising out of the
racing, shall be decided by the Stewards, or a maionty
of them, whose decision on all points shall be final.
Entrance, 7i per cent., except where otherwise stated.
Sweeps in all cases to be for starters only, and nomi-
nation-fees forfeited for non-acceptance.
THOMAS TATE,
Hon. Sec., Tattersall’s Hotel, Moss Vale.
IP this should meet the eye of either F-RED
ERICK or ROBERT RIDLEY, last heard.of »
Sydney in November last, their brother ERN*
would like to hear from them. Address:—S3 aIJ 3
Bulletin Office.
a vessel for a possibly prelonged voyage. Such teach-
ings are not to be found in the commandments of his
god. There is 'one law with him that overrides all
others: " Thou shalt grow richand if steaming the
flocks in a cauldron, or roasting them in a furnace, would
aid him in that endeavour, by the worth of one bale of
wool or cask of tallow, he would not for a moment
object to put them in.
The Price of Improvement.
The price of improvement is usually paid in the un-
minted gold of human life. And so closely are palpable
follies and effete notions hugged by administrative
powers, it might be supposed that all improvements
were held in copyright of some malignant deity by
whom their use was.forbidden until a price had been
paid in multilated flesh. How long will dead bodies he
washed ashore and the sharks revel upon unaccustomed
viands after each paltry marine accident, for the lack
of proper and portable floating apparatus ? And how
many men will be crushed to unpleasant-looking objects
between the buffers of trucks and engines, before a
simple and feasible method of automatic coupling is
adopted ? And how many more carriages will run off
the track and strew bruised, battered, and bleeding
bodies about the line, before some simple signalling
apparatus he extende d throughout the length of a rail-
way train, whereby, upon occasion, the engine driver
may be peremptorily instructed to stop ? It is by no
means certain that the sacrifice recently offered in Mel-
bourne will be sufficient to purchase that last most
desired amendment—for the the lives of those unfortu-
nate gentlemen [killed, and the sufferings of the
ißsnv injured, by the collapse! at Jollmont, can be re-
garded as naught else than a sacrifice to the Folly-god.
These poor people were penned securely as prisoners
awaiting execution, and though conscious of their
danger, through lack of five-pounds’ worth of applied
skill were powerless to prevent or escape it. It is
quite true that some other oountries[are as yet in the
same plight. With two brutal murders and one
cowardly outrage, in addition to the many accidents,
our dear Mother-land has certainlylpaid a heavier price,
and in vain ; but, even at the risk of failing in filial
duty, may we not move ourselves in this matter ? Is
not the sacrifice enough ? Or shall we wait until mur-
der is added to misfortune, and outrage to murder, or
until some poor victim, grown desperate with long
waiting, takes an hon. Minister for Railways by the
heard and knocks his brains out upon the panels of a
carriage ?
Wife and Husband.
The following is after the style of an advertisement
which often meets the gaze of newspaper readers: —
NOTICE.—I hereby certify that I will not be
responsible for any debts contracted by my wife
(Caroline Hambly) from this date.—(Signed)
Thomas Hambly, Richard-street, Newtown,
August 17,1881. —Sydney, N.S.W., Wednesday,
Aug. 17, 1881.
Now, it pretty often turns out (perhaps it were more
accurate to say in nine out of ten oases) that notices
like the above are inserted for the most contemptible
of reasons. The fault is, in most oases, the husband’s.
After years of “ nagging,” a bitter and ceaseless perse-
cution, to which the wife has no option but to submit, or
else the most painful one, which, sometimes, but to her
honour seldom, she chooses, she leaves the home which
to her has been no home, preferring the aid of relatives,
or the measured charity of strangers, to the miserable
jealousy and cowardice of him who should bo her
dearest friend. And he, instead of being sobered by
this terrible step, comes out to publish his wife’s
misery, and—warn shopkeepers against giving her a
loaf of bread on his account. The most cruel, the
most infamous of slurs, is thrown upon the honour of
ono who has little redress. The world does not know
her story; it does not know the misery of those long
hours she waits for the staggering step and the un-
certain knock; how she puts off her children’s
searching questions about their father’s absence with
lies; how, knowing how unworthy he is, she yet bears
hi < faults and defends him from the censures of friends
aid relatives; how, in a word, through passing years
an 1 changing circumstances she devotes to this wretch
the truest, most unselfish love this life knows of. And
when violence succeeds to evil words; when she fears
Hie uplifted arm, and not now so often the sneering re-
joinder, then she sees that the last hope is going for
this man; and, more driven than urged, she leaves his
house. Of course, in this, as in all other matters, there
is a second side. Sometime*, though far less often, the
husband is plagued by a drnuken creature, or a Xantippe
makes his house resound with the clamour of a censorious
tongue. Admitting all this, we may safely say that, in the
majority of cases, the fault of the wife’s leaving her
homo lies with the husband. Now, when we look at
the vast amount of inconvenience and disturbance, and
misery, caused by these occurrences, we will see that a
great benefit will be conferred on mankind if any means
could be found by which these evils might bo mitigated.
Perhaps, if the chief male and female members of a
family wore given authority to hold an examination
into any such circumstances, and their decision were
binding on the parties concerned, something could be
done to remove the evil. Say the father and mother
of both husband and wife were constituted such a
tribunal; or, if either of the former parties were dead,
then* the nearest male or female relative of the latter
person should be appointed; or, more impartial but
more distasteful to the average English people would
be a governmental beard of conciliation and advice,
whose decision should likewise be final., Family coun-
cils of this kind are commonly employed in France, and
wh -re they fall in arranging differences, do good service
in settling terms of separate subsistence.
Evangeline.
The pen of the poet and that of the imaginative
legend-weaver have the power of investing with
a lasting individuality of their own the central
figures round which they wreath their graceful poem
or romantic tale. These become types of a class ; they
form themselves into sufficiently palpable entities to
represent and embody the system in which they are
supposed to move ; and an allusion to that system inl-
ine liately and naturally refers itself to its represen-
tative ideal. The poet’s pen becomes a painter’s
pencil for the time ; and the completed picture stands
out from the canvas with every indication of the
cuuning of a-t’s master-haud. Such a one is the
portrait limned for us, in such tender softness of sweet
colouring, and sympathetic shine and shade, by the
Puritan poet, Longfellow, in his character of Evanoe-
geline. Everybody has read the story. All know the
history of her love for Gabriel, and their separation,
and her weary search; aud all remember her career—
—“ Among the children of Penn, in the friendly
streets of their city ’’—in the sombre veil and habit of
the Sister of Mercy, so well-known amid the haunts of
the poor. Her life was spent among scenes of wretched,
ness and sorrow, “ where disease and want concealed
themselves from the sunlight:’’ in the hospitals and
almhouse— homes of the homeless. Evangeline is our
ideal of a Sister of Mercy. We view her and her
self-abnegation, and her forgetfulness of every-day
aims j and we turn from this, and weigh it against the
work she accomplishes, —and we are satisfied. We pause
not to question her belief, or the motive of her self-
sacrifice ; our concern is with her work and its
fruits. She may commence with a mistake, —a misap-
prehension of duty may be at the base of her devoted-
ness of life; but who will criticise too severely the
motive of so much gentle nobleness, and heroism al-
most beyond the scope of woman ? It would, we think*
require a degree of coarseness dangerously bordering
on brutality to do this thing. But our question is
answered before it is asked. In a recent issue, the
Protestant Standard seeks to decry the work these
Sisters of Mercy do. It defends their expulsion from
the Paris hospitals, telling its readers that " It will be
a great boon to Protestant patients," and that " Sisters
of Mercy are, moreover, usually the worst nurses a
hospital could have." We of course know not if the
writer of this believes it. But we do know that such
opinions would be scouted by every liberal Protestant,
of whatever class of belief. The best test of their
usefulness as hospital nurses is to be found in the fact
that the medical staff of this very Paris Hospital re-
signed en masse when their services were dispensed
with. We, ourselves, are under too great a debt to
these servants of society to repay their offences with
calumnies such as these. In the Crimea our soldiers
knew the value of their ministrations. We can but
pity the holders of opinions represented by the extracts
we have given. They are the opinions of a class, and a
class which happily is as small as it is mean.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Government is sinking two wells at Mount
Browne.
That clever American paper, the Detroit Free
Press, is going to publish a Sunday edition in London.
The Chinamen in the Conglomerate, Palmer dis-
trict, are still doing well. They average £2 10s. worth
of gold a man per week.
Crowded meeting of Americans and representa-
tive citizens of Sydney, on Monday, adopted a letter of
condolence to Mrs. Garfield.
Frederick Morant, who shot Catherine Parry at
Fitzroy, Victoria, has been acquitted. His plea was
that the gun went off in a struggle.
An effort is being made to establish a second
Stock Exchange at Melbourne. The entrance fee to
the existing one is £5O. and almost prohibitive.
It is alleged that heads of rooms in the Lands
Department nave not only done private work them-
selves in office-hours, but have employed their sub-
ordinates to help them.
“ Coming events oast their shadows before.”
The Melbourne Herald is very much improved. The
proprietor* of the Argus announce that the publication
of a new daily journal, the Evening Mail, will shortly be
commenced by them.
The New Zealanders are preparing for a Maori
war at the West Coast. The Native Minister is there,
and reinforcements of men and stores of munitions are
being sent forward. Outlying settlors are removing
into the towns and enrolling themselves in volunteer
corps. Te Whiti, however, advises the Maoris not to
take the initiative in hostilities.
Last Sunday 1136 people attended the Museum.
This is a large increase. Mr. Copeland should again
try for the opening of the Art Gallery, which would be
attended by thousands. By the way, Sydney was not
always so ultra-" godly.” Many years ago, when Im-
perial troops were stationed here, the regimental bands
used to play for the amusement of doomed sinners on
Sunday afternoons.
The accountant of the Victorian railways. Mr.
G. T. A. Lavater (a relative, by the way, of the great
physiognomist), asserts that season-ticket holders are
carried at ridiculously low rates, and that the manage-
ment of the suburban lines costs 50 per cent, more than
when under the Hobson’s Bay Company. And as Mr.
Lavater is one of the cleverest men in the Victorian
Civil Service, he is likely to be ri;ht.
How they manage things up North at Toowoomba.
The other day, one Elizabeth Wilson got a month
tor obscene language. When Elizabeth was searched,
half-a-sovereign was found in her possession. She
could give no satisfactory account of the coin, and was
sentenced to two months' additional gaol, the terms not
to he cumulative, for being in possession of money
"reasonably suspected to have been stolen." We get
these facts from the D. D. Gazette, and can only sus-
pose that J.’s P. were mixed up in the matter.
Sheridan’s Farmers’ Home Hotel, Dungog,
about which there was such bitter clerical opposition,
is a roomy, well-built house and a convenience to the
neighbourhood. For bloodthirsty persecution, you
can’t beat the Christian clergyman of a certain type.
The line is—“ build your hotel anywhere but agin me
own door.” The most surprising thing is such a noise
about a decent hotel in a township, and such silence
about road-side grog-shops, where you may spend the
day on the broad of your back, and vo out “ drugged
and busted." But, of course, wine-shops are a con-
venience.
Archbishop Vaughan, it would appear, objects
to being held responsible for everything which appears
in the Express, and has had published by his Vicar-
General, in last issue of the paper, the following
quotation from “ The Pastoral Letter” of the Fathers
of the second Plenary Council of Baltimore, as ex-
pressing his position:—" We wish to guard against the
misapprehension, which frequently arises from the
Bishop’s name being connected with such papers [re-
ferring to the Catholic Press], in so far as they are
recognised as ‘organs,’ that is, mediums through
which the Ordinary communicates with his diocesans.
This circumstance gives no sanction to the articles
which appear in such papers, other than they may
derive from the name of the writer when given ; still
less does it identify the Bishop [or Archbishop] with
the paper, so as to iustify the conclusion that what-
ever appears in it has his sanction and authority."
Consilium Plenarium Baltymoranse n , p. cvvi. Dean
Sheridan adds: —“ At the same time I am instructed by
the Archbishop to say that he takes the deepest inter-
est in the Express, and will give it all the assistance in
his power.” All this comes to us as a rude shock. We
were just beginning to regard the Express as an in-
fallible paper.
When did King Darius visit Judea? When he
arose early and went down to jaw-Dan.
Christine Nilsson is expected in Australia. Her
arrival will be regarded as Swede turn-up.
Excursionists and Picnic Parties say the Avenue
is the Recreation Ground for the coming season. See
N. Joubert’s Time-table for further particulars.
The failure of the recent Tamworth Show de-
ni mstrated once more that the days of pastoral and
agricultural shows are past. The seasons suited for
each interest do not run together. Hundreds of
empty pens showed that the stock-breeders were not
interested, and the poor display of produce (except-
ing Pollock’s Quirindi wheat) showed that the con-
venience of the agriculturist had not altogether been
consulted. ‘‘Between two stools,” &o. A movement
is new afoot for the bolding once a-year, alternately
in each of the principal towns, of a grand stock show,
d la the Great National of England, when there would
be something to exhibit and something to see—some-
thingf to sell, and something to buy.^J^


Michael Rush’s speech at his banquet was quite
in keeping with his whole career—manly, modest, honest
and straightforward. But has he really retired from
aquatics for ever ?
Four Chinese converts were baptized by the
Rev. Dr. Steel on Sunday last. Hopes are entertained
that they will undertake a mission for the conversion
of the Sydney larrikins.
A fool and his money are soon parted, as the
man found out who paid 60 per cent, more for his
goods, instead pf going to Hamburger Brothers and
Co., 375 Qeorge-street, who are relinquishing business,
and sell their stoak of watches, clocks, jewellery, pipes,
and fancy goods, at English cost. Open from 8 to 1,
and 2 to 6. —Anv.
In response to an invitation by Mr. Inglis, the
manager of the Sydney branch of the Calcutta Tea
Association, Charlotte Place, a large and very repre-
sentative company assembled at the warehouses of the
association on Monday last, and partook of a luncheon
supplied in Compagnoni’s best style. After the usual
loyal toasts, Mr. Inglis, in a capital speech, laid before
the company the merits of his association, its aims
and character. Sir John Robertson in one of his
happiest efforts, in responding to the teast of the
Ministry, said that but for having drunk so much tea
when he was young, he would not have been able to
drink so much champagne now he was old ; and had he
only been privileged to have drunk Indian tea in his
youth, his capacity for champagne would doubtless
have been much increased. He cordially wished suc-
cess to the movement, and amid a torrent of good
wishes. Mr. Inglis’s health was drunk,land the festive
proceedings terminated.
Trademark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, 17. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Adv.
LATE THEATRICAL.
“Mr. J. P. Macdonald, who is manager of the
International Dramatic and Musical Agency in Mel-
bourne, has sent us a line informing us (it is advertised
elsewhere) that Mr. Williamson has secured for Aus-
tralia the sole right of producing Gilbert and
Sullivan’s burlesque opera ‘'Billee Taylor,” and that he
will play quarantine and tommy generally with any one
who plays it without his sanction. “ Billee” is said to
be delightfully “ tuney,” and the libretto is exceed-
ingly funny. One song—“ It’s all along of Eliza —is
being yowled through the London streets generally;
there are other numbers in it equally catching. Mr.
Williamson will probaoly make a lot of money out of
“Billee Taylor.” Bnt, then, he makes a lot of money out
of everything. Mac. says that the Age has given the
“Tambour-Major” chief an awful doing; and he also
remarks Harkins’s agent is Frank Weston the second.
We await the debut of the great Harkins with much
anxiety. They say he has “ made a name already.
So it appears. “ Harkins.”
** * *
Mr. Maccabe is still at it, and it is a pleasant
sight when passing the School of Arts of a night to
behold the irresistible Fred. Hiscocks, smoking a
cigar on the steps, with “ full inside ” stamped on
his countenance as legibly as though it had been done
with a rubber stamp. Of all the good things Mr.
Maccabe does, perhaps the best is the lady-killer,
which is a delightful piece of satire. The “ Mellow-
itwurm. ’’ is also a wonderful performance, and the
railway porter is a yell throughout. No entertainment
that has visited these sho.es has ever “ got them'
as Maccabe has. His succ, ss is positively phenomenal.
Night after night, the School of Arts is crowded with
an hilarious jumble of all sorts and ail ages even
the “ five-bob touch ”in front being nightly crowded
by Coogee Countesses, Darling Point Duchesses, and
Burwood Barons. The moment Fred, appears, all the
spectators open their mouths and hold back their
tongues for a shriek. All his points are taken, and
when the show is over, the people go and knock the
chemists up to get nine-oils to rub their sides with
We purpose shortly interviewing Mr. Maccabe, and
treating our readers to a few sketches of him, as he
appears lolling on his Eastern couch, drinking Dry
Monopole out of a crystal goolet.
** * *
At the last moment we learn that Mr. L.M.
Bay less has engaged for certain— Harry Emmett, Miss
Melrose, Maggie Forde, Miss M. Melville,
and Miss Teresa and Miss Eugenie Horan to
support Mr. Dampier, while other important engage-
ments are pending. The opening performance will
consist of “ Mother-in-Law,” and the burlesque of
“The Corsican Brothers." In the comedy, we may
remark, the aesthetic craze is farcically satirized,
as in *' Patience,** and as too-tooness is now ail the
rage amongst the Sydney “ snperlatively-quites, there
will be some excitement over the pmoe.. our or
five supers were wanted at Maitland by the Montague-
Tumer Troupe. When the men came, their first en-
quiry was what they were to sing. Even the triangle
couldn’t hold its sides Miss Georgma Smithson goes
to Melbourne for the pantomime season. Ih® Inonta-
gue-Turner Company doing the largest business yet
known at Maitland Mrs. Oolborne Fraser, teacher
of music and singing, who has been prevented by ill-
health from following her profession for a considerable
time, takes a benefit at the Protestant Hall„iuesday,
Got. 4.
POLITICAL POINTS.
N. Z. Parliament prorogued on Saturday last.
A new Licensing Bill has become law in N.Z.
It makes all new licenses subject to local option, and
the Licensing Bench elective by the ratepayers.
Patterson, ex-Minister for Railways, Vic., de-
clares that considering appointments occupy the
Ministers’ whole time, to the exclusion of other busi-
ness.
Mr. Gladstone publicly stated that he recog-
nises the imperative necessity of dealing with the
English land-laws “sooner or later." This is worthy
of Parkes.
The Black-Wednesday victims are to be com-
pensated by the present Government of Victoria. Yet
Sir Bryan was Mr. Berry’s colleague subsequently to
the dismissals. Verily, the whirligig of time brings its
revenges.
The London correspondent of the Cologne Ga-
zette says that “ Guiteau’s crime was but the culmina-
tion of an Irish plot, the essence of which was as
follows : Mr. Garfield’s successor will be Mr. Arthur,
who is now the Vice-President of the Union. Mr.
Arthur is an Irishman, and because of his past, and in
his endeavours to establish himself firmly in the chair
of his predecessor, he will be forced to play into the
hands and do the bidding of his faction. Now, in his
faction must be reckoned the ‘ entire Irish vote’ (das
ganze Irische vctum) —the Irish contingent of the
State of New York. It is perfectly evident that if this
contingent of wild men shall set out on a marauding
expedition against the English on American soil,
Arthur will be neither able nor willing to restrain
them."
The “Ladies’” Go-as-you-please.
We looked in on Tuesday night to have a glance at
this aesthetic exhibition, and to note its salient
features. We saw enough to induce us to look in
again before next issue. There were on the occasion
of our visit about two thousand spectators within the
" hippodrome" —men chiefly, of all ages, but pretty
nearly identical condition. The “fair” competitors
were plodding along a cinder track attended by
male friends, who occasionally administered refresh-
ments from soda-water bottles and other classic
utensils. The interest, however, culminates towards
the last, when we propose to be present—very much
present indeed.
A short time prior to the Brighton murder,
Mr. Dampier, who was in London playing at the Surrey
happened to meet Bracy, and that gentlemen said to
him that his fortune was made, as a young fellow he
knew, named Lefroy, had been left by Fred Coppin an
unpublished opera by Offenbach, called “ Lucille," and
that he had taken such a fancy to him (Bracy) that he
had resolved to present him with the piece. The opera
was then on its way out. Dampier (though he had his
doubts about the genuineness of this benevolent
stranger’s generosity, of course gave Henry his felici-
tations, and there the matter ended. Some days after-
wards (by which time he had almost forgotten all about
the affair), when playing one night, a message was
given him by Mr. Holland that when the piece was
over a gentleman would be glad to see him in the
restaurant on important business. In due course
Alfred dressed and went upstairs to see his visitor.
He found a slight and particularly mild-mannered young
man leaning against the bar, awaiting him. He was
well got-up, and —as the PoLrcs Gazette has it —
“of good address.” He stated that he had a comedy
to dispose of, and would let Mr. Dampier have it on
his own terms, as that gentleman’s style of acting was,
in his opinion, particularly suited to the nature of the
piece. He then insisted upon “shouting” for Mr.
Dampier, and such other members of the company as
were there, and, leaving bis card with Alfred, smilingly
took his departure. When he had gone, Mr. Dampier
took the pasteboard from his pocket and read it. The
name was “ Charles Mapleton Lefroy ” Three ..r four
days later, Bracy met Dampier in the Strand, and,
pulling a long face, said: “ Yon know the chap that
was to have given me the opera?" “Yes?” said
Alfred. “ Why, he’s the Brighton murderer. Just
like my luck. Why in thunder couldn’t he have given
me the piece first, and murdered the man afterwards ?”
It is hardly necessary for us to state that Offenbach's
Posthumous opera existed only in the imagination of
Lefroy; and it was through a letter written by him to
the Era that the rumour of this opera being in the ;
possessian of the late Mr. Fred Coppin’s executors was ■■
started. With regard to Lefroy, there appears to be ;
m> doubt that he went for old Gold. Mr. Dampier, S
however, appears to doubt. The expression of our I
opinion about the matter will, therefore, be suspended |
“•until Lefroy is.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The storekeepers assistants of the Macleay have
petitioned for a Thursday half-holiday A. clerk and
a commission agent, arrested at Melbourne for smug,
gling opium, were selling the drug to Chinese at 255.
per lb. 160 lb opium was found in their cart The
Italian man-of-war Europa ran on a rock at Thursday
Island. Is likely to become a total wreck...... Two
Sydney larrikins committed on a charge of robbing a
boy of nine, of £l9 in notes New South Wales Pro-
tection League petition against th.e Council’s amend-
ments to the Chinese Restriction "Bill The Kim-
berley pearl, found at Lagrange Bay, will be send to
London by E.M.S. Bokhara. It is olive-shaped, very
perfect, of regular surface, and beautiful lustre. The
Governor of Western Australia offered one thousand
pounds for it. Other pearls, ranging in value
from £5O to £250, have been found in the same locality...
Qoulbum cattle market better than Homebush. £7
19s top price for fat bullocks last Saturday The St.
George Standard, alluding to a recent “ find ” of a
d» ad man in the bush, remarks ;—“ The careless, reck-
less fashion some men have of dying in the bush is a
source of long rides and great annoyance to the police."
Mr. Lloyd, leader of the Cape prospecting party,
has been killed by a fall of earth Mr. Edward
O’Loan, of the D.N. Argus, Rockhampton, is dead, of
consumption. He died in harness, having transacted
business on the day before his death £l2O 000 has
been offered by Mr. D’Esclen for Mr. T A Matthews’
Wiitsgoona Station The Chinese sugar-growers of
Cairns, N.Q , who have a splendid plantation, are
getting a crushing plant from John Walker and Co., of
Maryborough Railway Bookstall Co. formed for
N.S. Wales lines Boring for water in Victorian dry
districts a success Melbourne school-teachers ask
that part of the Exhibition buildings may be utilised
as a National Gymnasium and Swimming School
Another indictment is to be prepared against Moritzon,
the Dunedin dandy, now under sentence for embez-
zlement Millions of caterpillars have appeared on
the plains near Lismore, followed by great flocks of
ibisis Hares are becoming a nuisance near Wallera-
wang The survey report laid before N.Z. Parlia-
ment proves Mount Cook (the highest mountain in
New Zealand) to be 12,349 feet high, or 851 feet lower
than the Admiralty estimate hitherto accepted. Mont
Blanc, the famous Alpine king is 15,781 feet high
A firm of importers in Christchurch (N.Z.) made
£20,000 last season from reapers and binders A new
steamship company, with its headquarters at Auckland,
is to be formed. It is proposed to enter the Fiji trade.
Evans, captain of a N.Z. coasting steamer, dis-
appeared mysteriously, and, it is supposed, drowned
himself. A note was found in his handwriting contain-
ing the words, " Good-bye. God bless you all.
Take care of the steamer, Mr. Back strom, till
you get to Nelson." He also left a will
Three oases of leprosy among the Chinese at Cooktown.
One boat obtained £4OO worth of beche-de-mer, in
three weeks, within 40 miles of Cooktown An Ips-
wich (Q.) Grammar School boy suffered concussion of
the brain from a branch chopped off to get at a native
bear The bodies of a Mrs. Wakefield and her
daughter were found under the fallen roof of their hut
in the Bugle Ranges, S.A Americans of Sydney will
wear mourning 30 days for the late President Garßeld.
377 immigrants arrived by the Ninovah, 22nd inst
Large numbers of people coma by every steamer from
N.Z The ladies of the Sydney flower-rr ission can’t
understand why they are refused admission to the
Aged Women’s Asylum Some years ago, a Mr.
Mifflin died at Kyneton, Vic., leaving a youn g widow.
The widow used to visit her husband’s grave. There
she fell in with Murray, an antiquated, leather-faced,
lantern-jawed specimen of a grave-digger. However,
rather than be without an husband, she accepted him
as a sweetheart. A few days ago, at the Kyneton
Police Court, she obtained an order for 7s 6d
per week for the support of his and her illegiti-
mate child. Now she intends to go for £lOOO
for breach of promise. The grave-digger owns
262 acres of valuable land near Kyneton
Kawera, a Paeroa native, has shot his father in the leg.
He missed his mother. His only regret is said to be
that he didn’t go for his mother-in-law Agg, ex-
accountant, Land’s Department, Victoria, embezzled
£2124 New bridge over the Taira, at Melbourne will
cost £54,000 Half-year’s profits of the Moonta Mine
£5OOO. 1285 hands are employed Three prisoners,
who escaped from Adelaide gaol, were hunted and re-
captured within an hour Notorious “ drinkers ” use
the Infirmary as a convenient place in which to get
straightened up for another bout The Melbourne
Exhibition medals will be distributed to Colonial ex-
hibitors this week The Ngatikaku tribe of Maories
recently shot four bullocks belonging to a settler, and
stuck the bullocks’ head on a pole. They put the bodies
into the pot At Waitakeri, N.Z, a man aged 68,
who suffers from asthma, rubbed his chest with kero-
sene in front of a fire The kerosene caught light and
he was terribly burnt Eendal, the Napier (N.Z.)
postal clerk, under remand for stealing letters, at-
tempted suicide in gaol The tree that marked the
snot where young Dobson, the surveyor, was
murdered by the Burgess-Kelly (Maungatapu, New
Zealand,) gang, between Brunnerton and Grey-
mouth, was blown down during recent heavy galea
The far-famed Waiwera hot springs in Auckland (N.Z.)
province have been sold to a company for £15,000
A small-pox and vaccination controversy has been
going on at Auckland (N.Z.), The local Board of
Health has countermanded its order for an inoculated
calf from Sydney, pending certain enquiries which are
to be instituted From cocoa-nuts planted not a
year ago at Cooktown, plants have already grown two
feet high The trustees of the Maryborough (Q.)
Botanical Gardens have granted permission to the
Town Band to play on Sundays, between 4 and 5 p.m.
At Mackay a £5OOO company has been formed to
distil spirits from molasses The Cairns people want
a doctor Hidden Treasure Co., Copeland, which
lately declared a dividend of 35s per share, has just
cleaned up again 2370 z. from 107 tons 'Prince
Charlie Co., at Copeland, cleaned up last week 146 oz.
from about that number of tons of quartz. Not bad
for a reef over 4 feet thick John Hart, brother of
the outlaw, shot at Qlenrowan, has been arrested at
Greta, for cattle stealing. Bail refused A gentleman
who has a run in South-Western Queensland entirely
discredits Skuthorpe’s story concerning the Leichhardt
relics. He says that in the place in which Sknthorpe
says he found a tree marked by Leiohardt, no such tree
exists, timber of any kind being rare.
LATE SPORTING.
The Parramatta Alfred Cricket Club have
agreed to give the the'All-England Eleven £lOO and ex-
penses to play a match on the Parramatta ground, on
the Bth and 9th December, against twenty-two of the
district. This will be the Eleven’s first match in New
South Wales Double Bay regatta Will be held on
29th Oct. As this has always been a very popular event,
and as it is on this occasion being worked up by an
energetic committee, it is looked forward to with
especial interest. Mr. C. Newton, junr., is
secretary, and Mr. James Macintosh treasurer.) A pro-
gramme of 14 events has been decided on, and will be
found to accommodate all classes of boats, from clipper
yachts to clipper tubs. Mr. Wm. Laidley has donated
£lO 10s., and the Hon. J. B. Marks gives a 20-guinea
prize for yachts. Several new boats will make their
dMt at the regatta Athletic sports meeting at
Wallsend 9th November. The big event will be the
All-comers’ Handicap. Over £lOO was given in prizes
last year, since which the running track has been
greatly improved. Mr. W. Thuriing is secretary
The intended procession of boats to celebrate the open-
ing of the rowing season has been postponed Over
thirty clubs have entered forthe Nat Thomson trophy.
The first match is to be played on the Bth October, on
Moore Park. Coir matting is to be used for the
wickets —we fear it will not answer for matches. In
addition to that from Mr. Cubitt, Mr. C. E. Wigzeil
has offered a trophy for the highest number of catches
during the contests. The Association will think abont
it It cost the City Bowling Club £714 14s. to form
their new ground. Mr. A. Forsyth is president, and
Mr. J. Phillips secretary for the ensuing year One
of the competitors in the “ ladies ” go-as-you-please is
entered as Miss St. George. She had a fair lead, and,
judging from the shambling style of her opponents in
the .rear, the contest may fitly be described as “ St.
George and the draggin’.” Twenty-six horses have
accepted for the Caulfield Cup, fourteen for the Caul-
field Guineas, twenty-nine for the great Foal Stakes,
thirty for the Nursery Handicap, aud forty-one for the
Toorak Handicap The N.S.W. Cricket Association
held their annual meeting on Monday evening. The
following are office-bearers for the ensuing year :
President, Mr. F. H. Dan gar; vice-presidents, Messrs.
S. C. Brown, M. Fitzpatrick, M. H. Stephen, J. J.
Calvert; bon. secretary, Mr. J. M. Gibson; hou.
treasurer, Mr. W, B. Walford. The dates mentioned
by the Victorian Association for the Intercolonial
matches were definitely agreed to, and the patron-
age of the Association was accorded to the All-
England Eleven now en route for Australia
The Alexandra Cricket Club will banquet on Friday
evening at M’fnerney’s, when the trophies won during
past season will be presented to the winners bv the
president, Mr. John Macintosh The heats of the
pair-oar race in connection with the Telegraph Regatta,
which takes place next Saturday, were rowed off on
Monday morning in Woolloomoo Bay. The first heat
resulted as follows :—Freeman and Tomkinsou 1, Black-
stone and Pollard 2; the second Doult and ’ Whysall
1, Haslingdon and Lynch 2. These will now row off on
Saturday, and a splendid race may bo expected
A match on Saturday last on Parramatta Park between
the Hawkesbury and Parramatta Rifle Companies re-
sulted in favour of the former team by 61 points.
Scores ; Hawkesbury 446, Parramatta 385 Canary
was backed for £BOOO at 100 to 3 and 4 in Melbourne
Cup The Parramatta Jockey Club intend to pur-
chase 100 acres of the Elizabeth Farm Estate as a site
for a new.race-course.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
President Arthur will not convene Congress at
present The frozen meat shipment per Cuzco
did not pay. Excessive freight, and sale pre-
judiced by trade monopoly Czar has pro-
claimed the St. Petersburg and other districts in a
state of siege, owing to revolutionary agitations
Musselmans of Dulcigno threaten to rebel against the
Sultan Post-mortem of President Garfield showed
that Guiteau’s bullet broke two ribs, shattered a joint
of the backbone, and lodged below the pancreas
British Court ordered to wear mourning a week for
President. Garfield Fanatical riots at Mooltan,
India. Hindoo and Mahomedan temples and mosques
damaged. Military quelled row Bn.dlaugh’s sum-
mons against|Newdegate, M.P., dismissed Extra pre-
cautions against Guiteau being lynched Cholera
among British and Indian troops at Aden Russia
claims to have her war indemnity discharged by Turkey
on same footing as foreign bonds France baa assured
the Bey, no intention of permanently holding Tunis
Crown Prince of Sweden married to daughter of Grand
Duke of Baden The body of ex-President Gar-
field has been buried at Cleveland, Ohio Ayonb Khan
after his de'eat, fled to Herat, leaving his guns to the
Ameer. Fearful carnage on both sides. Ayonb’s
regiments deserted to the Ameer Destructive tor-
nado at Illinois, U.B.A Parnell is in Dublin
The Ameer intends to march on Herat According to
the Standard, the Boer Volksraad has refused to con-
firm the Convention with the British Tremendous
gale in the Baltic. Thirty wrecks Burglars at
Kingston-upon-Tbames fought the police, killing a con-
stable Some newly-elected Spanish deputies refused
to take the oath Probable that Christine Nilsson will
visit Australia Incendiary forest-fires in Cyprus
Earthquake shocks at Chieti, Southern Italy Two
Justices in Ireland have been threatened with death for
ordering evictions Native tribes of the Punjaub,
India, making predatory irruptions in adjacent pro-
vinces Spain will settle military colonists in Cuba.
Transvaal Volksraad adverse to ratifying the Con-
vention with the British. Trouble apprehended
Renewed insurrectionary movements in Ireland.
BRIEF MENTION.
So the police have at last made a start with the
unscientific abortionists.
The law’s delay. Judgment in The Bulletin
appeal case Referred till next term.
Do the block on a windy day, and you will master
the theory of corresponding antcles.
Verdict of Victorian jury re Jolimont railway
accident: — “Result of over-training—a tired wheel
broke down.”
A Maitland soliloquy : “ I may not be able to
get a doctor drunk in one day, but any day I may get a
doctor drunk. ”
We notice that “ Paul Pry” has ceased to con-
tribute to the Melbourne Sportsman. This is a serious
loss —for “ Paul Pry.”
A selector writes us that the grandest bit of
satire on record is the terming of the Lands Office
clerks “ Civil" servants.
Prayers were offered for Mrs. Garfield in the
Adelaide churches on Sunday. Do the Adelaide people
want her not to recover, too ?
Again we are compelled to inform Queensland
correspondents that snakes under 26 feet long can get
no paragraphs in The Bulletin.
Motto for Dave Buchanan :
“ Men may come, and men may go.
But I blow on for ever."
From the Chronicle we learn that Mr. Edward
Death has opened a public-house at Carooar. We hope
it won’t be a case of “ Death in the glass.”
An employe at the Government Printing Office
has been suspended for kissing one of the girls em-
ployed in that well-regulated establishment.
Here is a gem from the Melbourne Bulle tin .-
—“I hope H. R enjoyed the liquorice on Saturday."
This is elevated journalism with a vengeance!
In Melbourne, on Friday night last, the Salva-
tion Army paraded the streets, preceded by a band of
trumpets, and followed by a band of —same thing with a
prefix.
We are anxious about the morals of Mr. Ninian
Melville. He travelled to Melbourne in
[ company with the Victorian turf agents who visited
Sydney.
There was a baby show at Tamworth, recently,
and the prize was given to a baby that bore a strong
resemblance to one of the judges. Hooray ! Blood
will tell!
There’s a bagman (down South), whose cards
bear the following legend:—“ Rupert de Montgomery
Loftus Bentink Chandos Fanthorpe St. Jones, Esq.”
That’s all.
Sir Henry Parkes is announced as an intending
contributor to the Sydney University Masazine. Ho
would do better were he to look after the Sydney
Powder Magazine.
There is a mining company at the Grey, New
Zealand, which rejoices in the name of “ The Ornitho-
rhynchus Paradoxus Company." Shades of Aiilibo-
rontephosoophornia 1
Sir Samuel Wilson considers his predecessor at
Hughenden Manor a very much over-rated man. Pro-
bably he didn’t know washed from greasy. At least, so
says Melbourne Punch.
It is generally conceded to Mr. Milner Stephen
by the medical fraternity that if “ blowing’’ can cure
ailments, that gentleman should be an adept at curing
everything—cancer included.
The black gin who got married the other day at
Morangorell, appeared in public on the evening of her
nuptials divested of her bridal finery, for which had
been substituted a two-bushel bag.
The veteran Pace-course cricketer is busy
framing new regulations for the Survey Department.
Result: —Temporary draftsman, aged 57, to Staff ditto,
rotat 20, “ Please, sir, may Igo out ?”
The congregation at St. Michael’s now sing with-
out music. This is bad; but hardly a worse state of
affairs than that which exists at Woollahra, where at a
chnreh the people sing without voices.
At a temperance picnic down the harbour,
recently, one of the musicians drank so much ginger-
beer, that when he got home to Woolloomooloo he
discovered that he had lost the big drum.
Five hundred and thirty-seven Surry Hills men
signed the Temperance pledge last week. This is an
indirect way of informing the general public that
the Crown-street tram cars are now running.
Since Dr. Ellis’s popularity has become so pro-
nounced, a certain worthy Church of England divine
passes most of his time mournfully repeating the tenth
commandment—and reading The Bulletin.
There was to have been a quiet wedding at
Copeland a few days ago. The drays laden with the
furniture were, however, hopelessly bogged half way.
No marriage. Now, where’s the connection ?
A heartbroken wife writes to us to complain
that her husband went fishing for three days off the
North Head, and the only thing he brought home was
the small-pox. We consider this joke vari-ola.
According to St. Paul “it is better to marry
than burn.’’ There’s a gentleman over this side, how-
ever, who has been married four times, and burnt out
four times, and we’d like to hear from him on the
subject.
Two young ladies went to Dr. Mao the other
day to be vaccinated, but didn’t want their arms
spoiled. What could the worthy doctor do under those
circumstances, but transmit the lymph from one calf to
another?
He stood midway between two railway stations
on the Northern line. He’d miss the train either way.
Happy thought! Dropped a Bulletin on the line—
then ambushed. Down brakes. Aboard, Away agaiu-
Houp-lk I
If the ratepayers of Sydney attended the meet-
ings of their Corporation, they would learn a good deal
which would interest and surprise them. A lot of plain
speaking goes on which no daily paper has public
spirit enough to report.
Robbins, the “vital magnetic healer,” has
located himself “ under the Y.M.C.A.,” in Park-street.
Well, you won’t do much trade with those bald-headed
pound duff-devourers, Ned. Nothing ever ails them
except hunger and pimples.
Scene: Melbourne Police Court. Touzled-headed
party in soiled black *' banger” in dock, charged with
drunkenness. P.M.: “ What are you, prisoner ?”
Pris.: "Evangelist of the Lord.” P.M.: “Three
months without the option.”
A certain M.D., up North, was recently washed
off his horse whilst crossing the Page River, and swept up
stream a distance of three miles, and then safely lodged
on top of his own house. The house was two storeys
high—and this makes another.
It may be just as well to remember that a
special day of prayer for the recovery of General
Garfield was observed all over America. It rained
heavily next day, but Garfield, poor fellow, didn’t
Guiteauver it. There must have been a mistake some-
where.
They have invented a new game at Copeland.
It is played on a billiard-table, and is called small-pox
pool. The players are assumed to be patients, and each
one, as he makes 31, goes to the quarantine. The last
man is proved to be healthy, and pays for the medicine
for those in quarantine, which is not to cost more than
sixpence. After all have had ‘heir doses, they start
again, and undergo another examination.
Josh Piokersgill organized a serenade to Miss
Pomeroy, in Dunedin, and told the musicians to meet
under her hotel window. The only instrumentalist
that turned up was the big drum, who did a solo that
set every dog in the city barking. When it was over,
the gifted tragedienne came out on the verandah and
said, “ For this proof of your admiration of my talents,
I thank yon. Your performance will long live in my
memory. Even on my dying conch I will recollect it.
At the bar yon will find my agent. His name is good
there for unlimited lager. My heart is too full to
allow of my saying any more. Sweet producer of dulcet
melody—farewell."
There is no limit to the ingenious devices re-
sorted to by advertisers to attract public notice. A
London tailor heads his advertisement in large letters
“Mr. Bradlaugh,” and then intimates that “having
witnessed the struggle in which Mr. Bradlaugh’s coat
was unfortunately torn, he will be glad to replace the
garment if the hon. member will favour him with a
call." Here’s a hint for Sydney firms. One firm might
offer Mr. Buchanan a new pair of boots, in place of
the pair appropriated by the thief at Wagga. Then,
Mr. Fitzpatrick might be supplied with a respectable
hat.’and Mr. Roseby with a pair of trousers that Won’t
leave his knees exposed every time he gets on top the of
grey charger. There’s a wide field here.
The (Baptist) entrepreneurs of a two-bob picnic
undertook to post their own bills, the other day. They
commenced operations on the side of a weatherboard
cottage, in Woollahra, and while they were admiring
the success of their efforts, the old woman inside
divided a bucket of water between them. Hardly had
they started on the fence, a little way down the street,
than the proprietor came up with a pitch-fork, and per-
suaded them to peel off their posters. While ornament-
ing a hoarding in Oxford-street, they had a little
difficulty with a mastiff belonging to the lessee of the
stand ; and in Elizabeth-street two fiends in human
form kicked over their billy of paste, and “ chucked”
their brush through an open second storey window.
They then went home to get their pants patched and
their cuts plastered, and, later in the day, subscribed
10s. between them, and humbly waited on the bill-
sticker.
We are informed that there is in Darlinghurst
a prisoner named James Cunningham, whose gaol career
points irresistibly to the conclusion that he is affected
with homicidal mania; that there is a difference of
opinion between the prison surgeon and the Inspector-
General of the.lnsane as to the man’s sanity ; that Dr.
Manning has on several occasions wished to rule him
insane, but has been unable to obtain the concurrence
of the Visiting Surgeon. Since Cunningham has been
in gaol, he has been flogged for striking a w arde ; has
out his own throat with a tin bed-label m hospital; has
had “ muffs ’’ put on him for stabbing another prisoner
at the dinner-table: has struck a man on the head
with a bucket. On April 23, he struck a warder, and
a month later he cut the head of another watder.
Ever since then, he he has worn a straight-jaclcet night
and day. We don’t know whether all this is true, but
it certainly wants looking into.
In Cooktown the papers are hard put to it for
locals. The Herald’, of the 17th, has apar about new


buildings, in which not only is " Mr. Home's residence ”
handed down to posterity, but undying fame is conferred
upon Mr. Beardmore’s coal-shed.
Certain of the Americans are much exercised as
to what should be done with Quiteau, who shot Presi-
dent Garfield. One enthusiast has suggested that
Government ought to run a red-hot poker through him,
and invite the nation to see him wriggle.
In a share register at Gympie is to be seen the
following entry:—
Name. Address, Occupation
Mary , Gympie, Married woman.
We should like to see Mary’s census paper.
In reply to Mr. Reid, the other evening, Sir
Henry said : “ I’m too old a bird to allow a Parlia-
mentary cuckoo of last summer ito lay his eggs in my
nest.” Sir Henry must see that the application is
rather mixed. Male cuckoos don’t lay eggs.
And so the Medical Board decline to give the
press (and through the press, the public) any further
information. All right. We may ridicule the doings
of this Board less, but we can never despise them more.
" All down but one—stick ’em up again, marker."
David had spoken for three hours on the Licens-
ing Bill, and had just sat down, when an ancient
member entered, and taking a seat near to the honor-
able member for Gundagai, said, “ What’s Davie been
saying to-night ? ” “ Nothing," was the quiet reply.
Mr. Lorillard has determined to build a church
out of his recent winnings on the English turf. This
is rounding on the “ unco guid ’’ with a vengeance.
Were turfites in general extensive supporters of the
churches, then would races be just as moral as bazaars.
Stands Balmain where it did ? We don’t think
so. It has evidently been removed farther West, as it
is daylight two hours earlier here than it is over there.
At least our Corporation “ douses its glims ’’ at 5, but
the Balmainers occasionally burn the " midnight oil ’’
till 7.
In the palmy days of Gympie, whenever the local
M.P. attended any public hall, he was greeted with a
round of cheers. Nowadays, when the shining light
who represents Gympie enters place of amusement
he is clamorously requested by the diggers to " take off
his hat 1 ’’
Peter Campbell has been having a go in with
the Adelaide Bullbtin. That paper says :—“ We are
pleased to learn that Peter is well-informed about every
part’cle of our business —including the circulation of
the Bulletin." Well, if that’s all Peter knows, it—
isn't much.
Another Queensland man, who has been burnt
out (he was insured, of course), wrote to his M.P.,
asking that the latter would use his influence to get
him made a J.P. The “ membah " promised to do so,
remarking that his constituent would be an ornament
at Are-enquiries.
From a recent Herald ad. we find that at a
certain registry office at Woolloomooloo there are no
less than six Generals who "have got no work to
do-00-oo." Can’t we start a war with Balmain, or a
general store, or something else to And the veterans
good employment ?
AN.S.W. hotel has a large photo, of three of the
great dead drunks of the district. They are taken
while non compos, and the effect is grand. At first
sight you would wager there was a well-known member
of Parliament among them. However, he’s not there—
he never could be got to sit up.
A correspondent of a religious turn of mind
suggests the following as an appropriate morning prayer
for the small-pox officials at the Treasury:—“ We have
left undone those things which we ought to have done;
we have done those things which we ought not to have
done; and there is no health in us."
“We are going to have a duel about your daugh-
ter," said two of the fair one’s lovers to her father, a
Hobart doctor. “ I shall be on hand when it’s all over,”
replied the medico. Aud then he added, “ Double fees,
you know, in these oases." The duel never came off,
and she eventually married the local poet.
One of the Gympie parsons is reported to be
studying for the law, and at a church meeting, a short
time ago, one of the churchwardens asked the reverend
gentleman whether such was the case. " Well,” replied
the cleric, "if you don’t pay mo better than you do.
I’ll have to do something to earn a living."
The “ Forger’s Fate ” is now in its 337th or its
37th —we forget which—chapter, and if Camphin don’t
grab that forger soon, he’ll get over to 'Frisco side
and lose his fate altogether. Likewise we will also lose
the faith we have also had in the editor’s turning out a
second Dickens, Ouida, or Mother Shipton.
The Westminster Review has noticed Mr.
Buchanan’s "Specimens of Australian Oratory," and
says that David is a thorough democrat and “ friend
of humanity." The reviewer has probably had Can-
ning’s verses in his mind, and has mixed up the "Friend
of Humanity" with the " Needy Knife-Grinder.”
The would-be “smarty” who wrete “Ere-
whon ” thought he had struck a grand idea when, in
1872, he described how people were flogged for having
diseases —especially small-pox. Why, we know a land
where a man having the complaint is killed stone
dead by a swift and certain system. The name of the
land is ah—yes—Kerguelen's.
The Cudgegong policeman is an Italian, and on
the first daj of doing duty in charge of the police
court he got things rather mixed, on account of the
mental strain of having to administer about two dozen
oaths. So, when told by the P.M. to close the court,
he shouted, " This court now stands adjourned until
10 to-morrow morning—so help me, God I"
The report of the Commission of the Legislative
Assembly appointed to inquire into the petition of the
Australian Gaslight Company (Sydney) for an Act to
enlarge the powers of that Company, has been laid upon
the table of the House, and will be published to-morrow
(Friday). The revelations of that report will, we hear,
waken up gas-consumers like a clap of thunder.
He had been to Sydney, and had returned to
Quart Pot Creek, of which district he was parson.
Breakfast was over, and he called all in for prayers.
His opening supplication he commenced as follows :
** Oh, my Father, my school days I regret."
He stopped then, and turned red hot all over. He had
spoken the first line of the sob song in " Olivette."
Speaking of the death of General Garfield,
David Buchanan said: " The mind and heart of the
world is troubled and agitated at the catastrophe.”
Now, no one but David would venture on becoming the
spokesman of the whole world. We wonder whether
David knows that the School of Arts Debating Society
has resolved that the assassination of rulers is justi-
fiable.
The Gundagai Times recently libelled a cook,
and subsequently made a grovelling apology. Here’s
some of it: —“ The fault was none of ours, the party
was unknown to us; we had not the slightest ill will
towards her.” We call this very handsome treatment
on part of the Gundagai Times. What wo italicise
should alone be sufficient to obtain for her a lucrative
situation.
The influence of the missionaries in the South
Seas is now thoroughly apparent. The niggers are
conversant with all the sacred names in our theology.
During the trip of H.M.S. Cormorant to the Solomon
Islands, Roro, the chief of Uji, witnessed the execu-
tion of some of the murderers. On the completion of
the ceremony, he exclaimed, “By Christ, no gammon
this time I"
When Paterson publicans have nothing else to
do, they amuse themselves building coffins. One
Boniface up there has a decided talent for the business,
and the " boxes ” he turns out would be no disgrace to
our own Quarantine emporium. When a lodger comes
to this Paterson hotel and observes he’s condemned
hungry, the host immediately orders roast turkey, and
then takes his customer out and shows him coffins.
That lodger don’t hanker after poultry that day. We’ll
keep our eye on the Paterson.
Two valuable clocks were the other night stolen
from the Lands Office. One of them, we hear, has
found its way down ,to the Haymarket—“ popped," it
is said. Suspicion rests on some gentlemen who are
in the habit of coming “ late.” There’s no libel in
tliis, as a great many Lands men “ come late." The
clocks while in the office were objects of universal
detestation, inasmuch as they went far too fast in the
morning, and far too slow in the afternoon. But they
always livened up during overtime.
A certain surveyor up North has a new way of
measuring land. Instead of chaining it, he gets a cart,
measures the circumference of the wheel, ties a pocket-
handkerchief on to one of the spokes, and counts the
revolutions. It takes one man to drive and two to
count the revolutions. His scale is " one handker-
chief to the wheel."
They had taken up a selection of 50 acres, and
went into a store to make certain purchases. As they
were leaving, the daughter said to her mother, "Why,
you have forgotten to buy the rations for the station,
mamma.” “So I have," returned the old lady. Then
to the shopman, “Six pounds of flour, a pound of sugar,
and half-pound of tea."
The Manning River Times is of opinion that
the best way to ‘ consolidate the town of Port Macquarie,
or in plain English, the best way to keep the inhabi-
tants from straying beyond their proper boundary, is to
restore the gaol up there to its former status." This is
good for the M. R. Times, and if the gaol should even-
tually fail, we would strongly recommend the erection of
a large and commodious dead-house.
There was a row in Christchurch, the other day.
A man named Marlow was charged with assaulting a
person named Rose, who was connected with the
Liberty. The battery was, however, of a very feeble
description, and a pound fine was the upshot. The
Liberty correspondent is described as being a “fruit-
erer," so it is not surprising to find that he went in
yemons in regard to taking it out of Rose.
The doctor to the patient said—
“ You’ve got the small-pox, my good man,
And so you’d better get to bed
As gently as you can.”
** Why, doctor, I’m in splendid trim,"
The patient said, and laughed with glee.
And then rejoined that poctor prim :
" Don’t yon ex-pustule-ate with me."
“ How are you, old chap,” said a country friend,
meeting a temperance J.P.; “ come and have a whisky."
" Don’t mind if I do," said the magistrate. " A thou-
sand pardons,” exclaimed the first speaker, recollecting
himself, " I forgot you were a Good Templav, aud so,
of course, you’re only joking.” “ I may be a Good
Templar,” said the J.P., taking the other’s arm, and
twisting him) into Giblin’s, " but I’m not a bigoted one."
An officer has been appointed to settle all claims
against the Victorian Government for compensation in
connection with the recent Jolimont railway accident.
£35,000 will probably be required to meet-liabilities. A
few people will, perhaps, profit by the smash, in ex-
changing |a very bad relative for good money. It's a
pity that one cannot always capitalise one’s friends.
Some of the sufferers were, when living, dear to their
relatives; now they’ll be dear to the Government.
The police court reporter of the Sydney Morn-
ing Herald is a genius. The other day he said that
a boy was sent to the Vernon, because he was “ under
the age of sixteen years,” and on lasi Saturday he
announced that " Margaret Cleary, found guilty of
having insufficient means of support, was sentenced
to be imprisoned three months." Being poor is quite a
new offence in the criminal code, but we assume that
Margaret Cleary had insufficient lawful means of
support.
At the Maitland races an intoxicated Irishman,
who had been melted down to his last shilling, stag-
fered defiantly up to the “ Under and Over ” table of a
tebrew gamester. “There, now,” said Pat, twirling
his stick, and giving a suggestive hop, " There, now.
Throw your doice, an’ let me see you take up my shil-
lin’. B’ the powers I whant to win, D’ ye hear ? I
whant to win." The Israelite was cute. “There, my
good fellow, take the two shillings and go away. Let’s
be friends."
The Grafton papers haven’t got over Rush’s
victories yet. The Manning River Times says :— 11 A
negreas, 180 years old, died recently at Cairo. She re-
tained her faculties to the last. She is said to have
waited on N apoleon Bonaparte on his Egyptian cam-
paign.” If the editor only added that he happened to
be the barber of “Le Petit Caporal” at the time, the
item would be complete.
At Townsville, the other day. there was a big
Are. Just previously there was a fire at the other end
of Flinders-street. The Civic Fathers proclaimed the
block first-class, and would not allow anything but
brick buildings on the site of first fire. By the second
fire some of the clique were burnt out, so they are
allowed to erect wood and iron shops pro tem. No
favouritism in Townsville.
Mr. Fletcher, the Newoastleite, was getting
warm on that admirable stump theme, " Teetotalism. ’
He was defending teetotalers from attacks which had
been made on them, anl said they were not deserving
of these seeing that the whole object which they had in
view was the “ elevation of man.” •* Hoot, mon !
thot's accomplished at the public-booses," was the
smart interjection which fell from Mr. Buchanan’s lips.
Mr, Fletcher immediately dropped into the gutter, and
said a lot of hard things by implication.
One of the funniest announcements which the
cable has conveyed for a long time is that the French
have given the Bey of Tunis a special guard of honour,
consisting of a squadron of French Hussars, for a
personal escort and for duty in the palace. The Bey
will be the best-attended potentate in the Hemi-
sphere. His guard of honour will never lose sight of
him. If they do, they will certainly be punished for
letting their prisoner—we mean the object of their
solicitude—escape we mean, get lost.
It is a fact that a clergyman of the Church of
England, the other day, tried all his persuasive elo-
quence on Messrs. Jones and Barber at the Alexandra
Palace, London, to induce them to have the circus
ladies appear before the school he had taken down in
trousers, or to out the lady riders out of the programme
altogether. He was willing to pay for the trousers!
Unfortunately trousers are not kept ready made at the
A P., and Jones and Barber, willing as they always are
to oblige, had to send the clerical one away disappointed.
That well-known bookmaker, Alf. Joseph, “the
Sandhurst fat boy, who, by the way, has developed into
a city councillor, tells a good story. A white-chokered
gentleman, who was a recent arrival in the district, one
day walked info Alfred’s office, and asked if he could be
supplied with three loads of turf-sod within a week.
On his being told that at that office they knew nothing
about turf-sod, the rev. gentleman said he had seen an
advertisement in which Mr. Joseph was described as a
“ turf agent." Alf. thinks he was a thoroughly good
man.
“ Come and have a drink,” they said to the man
from Murrumburrah, as the hand of the dial was on the
dot of midnight, and they drew up unsteadily in front
of the Post Office Hotel. But he refused, and they
entered without him, he being left, in astronomical
contemplation of the heavens from an adjacent kerb-
stone. When they came out and woke him up, his gold
watch and money were gone. When apprised, with
difficulty, of this, he said, “ There’s notheen (hie I)
in temp’rance.jn.Cash me ever (hie!) refusing drink
again."
A clip from our prodigal Melbourne godson
reads as follows “ What was J.C. doing behind the
bridge on Sunday night P Now who in thunder cares
whether J.C. was merely lighting his pipe, or en-
deavouring to blast the equator up with dymanite ?
Besides, who the Satan is J.C. ? He might be John
Oox or Julius Csssar, for all we know, and if we let out
what either party was up to “ behind the bridge " what
would a jury of four say to us over this side ?
“ It takes one whole policeman and two detec-
tives to keep the path in front of Tattersall’s clear of
gentlemen on race nights, whilst Roberts’ and other
comers are nightly thronged with larrikins, wall-
polishers, and froe-lunch men, and yet never a com-
plaint is heard or a constable seen to interfere.” [N.B.
—Some lunatic who signs “ Fair Play” sends us the
above, and we print it lor what it’s worth. It is cer-
tainly rather significant, however, that there are no
coffee palaces next door to the corners to which the
madman here refers.—Ed.B.]
The illustrious George Sawkins of (glorious
memory) thus writes to the Adelaide Advertiser in re
the Irish question:—“ Far as I am from overlooking
the many faults of the impetuous Irish, I say that they
have been mercilessly crushed under English misrule,
and that England with her boasted liberty has ruth-
lessly seen the race trodden underfoot that fought,” &c.
Fancy Q. S. on stilts doing the high falutin for Paddy!
Well, Sawkins has done most things now, and soon the
world will be exhausted. We wonder what he will
appear next as—a conjuror or a missionary ?
At a recent meeting of the Bathurst Amateur
Race Club, a gentleman present made a most remark-
able statement, viz., that the Town and Country
charged £l3 for the same amount of advertising which
the Sydney Mail had done for £4. The most remark-
able thing of all was, however, when this gentleman
asserted that he had written to the proprietors of the
T. and C., drawing their attention to the absurdity of
charging three times as much as the Mail, but the
only satisfaction he could get was a reply saying " it
was ridiculous to compare the two papers."
It is said that young ladies travelling Crown-
stxeefe, Sarry Hills, after dark frequently have to|knock
at strangers’ doors, and ask protection from the insalts
of young gentlemen (?) who seem to think they have a
special call for persecuting females. Our advice to
these is this: When one of these animate "things”
accosts you, turn round short and sharp, and let him
have what the Athenians used to call a "Hinny Hayser"
fair and square across the mouth. That will end the
business. Don’t be afraid. This style of gentleman
wouldn’t have the pluck to returns blow, even from a
bed-ridden grandmother.
We notice with a “ aoorprize that bordura upon
consturnashun ” that a Queensland editor has lately
died from “ consumption of the lungs.” We never
knew that editors died at all before, but had a sort of
hazy idea that they were invariably taken up to heaven
in a fiery chariot, with a big brass band snorting away
at the back, and a troop of butter-headed Chinamen
letting olf double-barrelled crackers and Bengal lights
in front; and, as a natural result, we now feel down-
hearted. There are some editors we know, however,
who will probably die from consumption of whisky—
but they live up Spitzbergen way.
There was considerable merriment at the Cope-
land the other day, over the visit of two Sydney specu-
lators —a timid newspaper man and a chicken-hearted
hotel-proprietor. They went all round the claims.
For some the figure was £2OOO, others £5OOO, and so on.
" Oh, the price is too high for us,” simperingly replied
the newspaper man; “ we don’t intend to go more than
£25 each.” “Would you like to go down a shaft?"
enquired a rough-looking miner. “ Oh, no,” said the
two together. " Then clear out of Copeland, or they’ll
put you down one." The hint was taken. Such are
the speculators who keep the gold-fields of this colony
undeveloped.
For “ circumlocutory, into-futurity ” ways com-
mend us to the Education Department. Rules relating to
leave of absence to teachers have been recently issued
by the Chief Inspector; and so far as we can judge, any
teacher who fancies he may require a few hours’ spell
before the day of judgment had better start preparing
his papers before the first of next month, because it
will take one-half of his life to read the said rules, and
the other half to understand them. This, however,
only refers to male preceptors. Female teachers may
obtain oue month’s leave of absence as long as they
like, providing they can find what John Stoefel calls a
"substitution," andean clearly prove that—well, see
the rules for yourself, dear reader.
This is a fact. A young lady who had taught for
many years, with varied success, in a suburban seminary,
being about to seek fresh fields and pastures new, it was
resolved to present her with a testimonial. After the
form which the gift was to take had been much can-
vassed, a dictionary was at length resolved on. When,
next day, the teacher had departed, in her room was
found the presentation volume, neatly enveloped in
brown paper, and lying beside it was an envelope
addressed to the other governesses, which contained
the following:—
" If I should take this book away.
You’d all be most forlorn;
I was your dictionary here.
Take this now I am gone.”
A little while ago it was related that a pious
head of a school near town promised to give a shilling
to every boy who found out the name of Moses’
mother, but that when one boy found it, and kindly
told all his classmates, so that they might share in the
“good thing," the monetary consideration was not
forthcoming. But it since appears that it was David’s
mother who was wanted, and the clever children were
rather premature in their claims. However, it was a
case of diamond out diamond all through. The master
stimulated the scholars by promising what he could not
possibly be called on to pay, and the youngsters
plumed themselves on having " got the dead wood "lon
the master, by passing dear old Moses’ mother round
the class, so as to claim a multiplicity of " bobs."
The Rev. Mr. Woolnough has been haranguing
the people of Maitland on “ Assyria and Egypt, with a
passing reference to old Mo’ and the other newspaper
men of Jerusalem." He said:—“ We are compelled to
think of Abraham as a real man." Well, it would be
very awkward for Sarah if it weren’t so. Does not the
Holy Howl say there were such descendants as Isaac
and Jacob, Mary Jane and ’Becky. No, Mr. Wool-
nough, you’re not going to cast slurs on our origin.
We belong to the ten tribes. The rev. gentleman pro-
ceeds, and, with much greater simplicity than we
thought possible in a Wesleyan clergyman, asks, “ How
came Moses to sift the wheat and throw away the
chatf?" Now, as if he didn’t know. Didn’t Moses
run a church ? Moreover, he was —well, he was simply
—Moses.
Police reports are, as a rule, awfully uninter-
esting. The D.T. has a whole lot of stuff about a
woman, a goat, and a Chinaman, but it drags fearfully.
Let ns then suggest a police report in a new style,
borrowingjour facts from the paper we love so well: —
There was a Chinkie called Ah Lee
(These men are named by rote).
Who threw a stone and broke the leg
Of Mrs. Jane Clarke’s goat.
He threw another one which struck
Poor Jane upon the nob;
She called a bobby, and she got
Ah Leo fined forty bob.
The D.T. ought really to beg Lefroy off, and get him to
write police reports.
The Melbourne correspondent of the S. M.
Herald, last week, writes thus of larriklnism in the
Victorian capital:—"Young savages break into a pub-
lie house, beat the landlord, destroy his property, in-
sult his wife, consume his liquor, and stone the police
sent in pursuit of them. And we are quite helpless in
the face of these filthy riots, for the police know it is
little use interfering; the magistrates only fine the
scoundrels in nominal sums, or admonish them to be
good boys for the future, and hence the larrikin is ab-
solute master of the situation. Hawks, as we know,
do not pick out hawks’ eyes; and as the bulk of our
legislators are of the larrikin class, we are not likely to
have any severe legislation jagainst their own order !”
How fortunate we do not live in Victoria. We have no
magistrates like that here !
A man who was slightly under the influence
found his way into the strangers’ gallery at Parliament
House on Thursday evening. The petty wranglers em-
bodied in the young attorneys who became gentlemen
at the last election and Mr. Jacob were indulging in
a sotfo voce discussion as to whether the word "and"
was necessary in a clause in the Licensing Bill, when
the aforesaid tippler bawled out, “ Why the devil don’t
you speak out, so that a fellow can hear you ?” He was
pitched out immediately. When we say that the word
“ and ’’ was under discussion, we wish to convey the
fact that there are iu the Assembly at least half-a-
dozen attorneys and others who never soar above these
little verbal points, and who talk by the hour upon
them. Yet these are the gentlemen who wish to be
privileged to wear the wig and gown.
The Christchurch Liberty, having had its
personality thumped out of it, now goes in for variety
instead. Under the heading of " Social” we find the
following interesting items, in the order in which we
clip them" A private bread and butter ball will take
place in the small Oddfellows’ Hall on the evening of
the 14th inst. —Masters E. Herman and Albert Edward
Nathan were confirmed at the synagogue on Saturday
last. The confirmation portion of the service was con-
cluded by the two lads reading a prayer together.—An
evening party, under the auspices of the Artillery, will
take place at the drill-shed on Sept. 21." It is very
kind of the editor to give these two little Hebrews such
a good show. Let us hope that if it is ever in their
pa’s power to show any kindness to the editor, he will
not neglect the opportunity of doing so.
When Professor Owen unveiled the statue of
Harvey, at Folkestone, the other day, he bitterly
denounced the anti-vivisectionists, whom he taunted
with taking no heed of the cruelties of so-called sport,
and praised Harvey as the greatest vivisectionist that
ever lived. His remarks were received with much
cheering by the medical men present. Truth says that
on such occasions “people who take a leading part in a
ceremony should not make it the occasion for airing
their own opinions, and denouncing those who disagree
with them.” Coming a little nearer home, this
reminds us that a gentleman, who, openly or covertly,
imputes misconduct, of whatever kind, to a sculler,
shouldn’t act as chairman of the meeting at which the
stakes are paid over to the winner. By so doing, he
places himself in an awkward and undefensible positions*
A gifted correspondent, who is also a bard, has
sent us a poem on the " Angels," which we confess has
completely puzzled us—experienced as we have become
in solving enigmatical copy. Aftpr saying that his
angels are “ white ’’ and “ clean,” he at once dives into
the mystic in the following stanza: —
" On onward still they go,
White almost as the snow;
Till they came to a pub,
What then —Ah, there’s the rub ;
One took rum, because others did.
Another took carbolic acid."
Well, old man.iif this is all you can do in the poetic line,
the sooner lyou emulate the carbolic acid angel the
better. Midnight, they say, is the hour when inspira-
tion comes to hand generally. You, however, need not
wait till it’s struck twelve: confine your attention to
strick-nine. We don’t wish to choke you off by this
advice, but will be glad to hoar from you again—when
you feel better.
It was a sad case, indeed. He was a young man
in the prime of life, but stricken down by a disease from
which four medical men declared he would soon recover.
By this his friends knew that he would die that day,
and they accordingly did all they could to cheer and
console the last few short moments he had to live. He
had been reading the “ revised edition ’’ in the hope of
obtaining comfort there, but finding that a certain
tropical portion of the next world was merely changed
in name, he gave up, and remarked with a feeble smile
that it was a sort of six-of-one, and half-a-dozen of the
other kind of apartment after all. He only made one
request after this, which was that the suburban
brass band to which he belonged might be allowed to
play just below his bedroom window. Ten minutes
after, the musicians blasted out his old favourite tune.
No. 6, or Nancy Lee, and as the last instrument did its
final howl, the poor young man sat up and faintly
fasped with his dying breath, “ Thanks, dear friends
’m resigned. There can—be—no—torments—to—
equal—that—lot.” Then he laid him down and died,
with the air of a man who had been well brought up to
the business.
We have a little contemporary, published “once
a week,” which gives, among other matters, Victorian
news and notes. The first Victorian item last week
was:—" Small-pox still prevails in Sydney,” and the
second that the Park Theatre, London, has been
burned. Next comes the intelligence that President
Garfield is getting better, a collision on the Clyde, a
railway accident in Kentucky, and other purely Vic-
torian items. Now, wo like to encourage talent, and
when this Victorian Munchausen slings ink again, he
might mention amongst his purely Victorian items
that Julias Caesar has just been shot by Bradlaugh:
that Mrs. Fotiphar is now a barmaid in Honolulu; that
Pontius Pilate was presented with a handsome tea and
coffee service on Friday last; that Commodore Colum-
bus will sail on a discovery voyage next week, and
see if there really is any land west of Africa ; that
Martin Luther will preach at St. Andrews, instead of
the Dean, on Sunday next; and that several first-class
lyres have lately arrived in Melbourne, and can be
found in the bar of any hotel that owns a slate, and
divers other items of a like interesting and purely
Victorian nature.
Our old friend, R. W. Perkins, has been at it
again in the Gundagai Times, on the subject ef the
“ Destiny of Russia." Referring to the present con-
dition of St. Petersburg, he pertinently remarks:—
" Barnabas —the companion of St. Panl, described in
Acts xii. 24, ‘ as a good man and full of the Holy Ghost,
and of faith’—in his writings (which, though forming no
Sort of the canen of Scripture, are, in coming from
im, entitled to great weight), clearly enunciates this,
as also that the power of the evil one would then
cease." This is too bad, Perk, old chap. You let up on
Daniel last week, and now you give Barney a turn.
What in thunder have these good people got to do with
Russia ? Why don’t you trot out Melikofl, or give ns
a wood-block of the Winter Palace ? And then you
say :—“ fN.B. —The writer hopes that such as take
interest in these contributions will give them all the
publicity they can.”]" Well, we have done what we can
for you, although, having been religiously brought up,
we don’t like to see Scriptural characters ill-treated.
We are afraid, however, to give your literary efforts any
further publicity. Gundagai is not very far away—and
we want you to live a little longer.
Three Gympie Benedicts shut themselves up in
a pub., and entered on a poker-playing tournament. At
the end of the third day their wives walked round and
enquired for them. Being told that they were not in
the house, the ladies mounted the stairs, and opening
the doors one by one, at length discovered their errant
spouses deep in it. It was a handsome apartment, with
mirrors on the walls, and delicate vases on the mantel-
pieces. They refused to budge, and then the landlord
came on the scene, aud ordered the ladies out of his house.
. . . The next morning the contents of the poker-
room were carried down in two gin cases, and the
doctors considered that the compound fracture of the
landlord’s right arm was progressing satisfactorily, but
they were a bit uneasy as to the true wound on the
scalp, aud feared that erysipelas might possibly
supervene on account of the nearness of the other cut
to the jugular artery. The three husbands were doing
nicely in the Infirmary, and the three wives are the
heroines of the hour.
The Matrimonial News is gradually acquir-
ing an Oriental flavour. Nearly all advertisements for
wives appear to emanate from the “ chosen people.’
Here, for instance, is a specimen :—“ J.E.W., eighteen,
tall, dark, handsome, would like to correspond with a
well-to-do young lady with a view to matrimony.—
Matrimonial News Office ” And here again :
“ Samuel, twenty-eight, dark hair and eyes, would like
to correspond with a lady about the same age with a
view to matrimony.— Matrimonial News Office.
Then we come upon another wife-seeker, whose denomi-
nation is uncertain, but who twists his ad. into verse.
Read a sample of his poetry:—
“ So ladies if you want a bow (sic)
Apply to me—the way you know.
Which of you will consent to be,
A loving wife to R.C.P.” .
Then we have:—"A Gentleman, twenty-two years oi
age, well-born and highly educated, tall and handsome,
and with a very good income from an American Estate,
who desires to correspond with a lady with to
matrimony." This party’s "American Estate" is very
funny, and decidedly more original than the legendary
“ Spanish Castle." Ashe goes onto say that “f.® 01 *
position is immaterial,” we should say that he wiU re *
ceive answers from at least half-a-dozen cooks, to say
nothing of washerwoman and Coffee Palace waitresse. •
It will thus be seen that our little contemporary i
getting quite lively. It is a harmless production, tew,
having about it a far greater smack of the scullery tua
the scurrilous. And having said that much, we consign
it with a sigh to—the dusthole.
PERCY LEFROY MAPLETON,
charged with the Brighton (Eng.) murder.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted np by secre-
taries of racing olnbs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Melbourne Hunt Club October 1.
Adelaide Hunt Club October 1.
Bega October 6.
Adelaide October 6, 7.
Boccaccio Park (Vic.) Trotting Match October 8.
Hawkee’ Bay (N.Z.) Racing Club October 12.
Wollongong October 12,13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13,15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Berrima October 20, 21.
Kensington Park October 22.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Trotting Club Meeting ....October 22.
Victoria R.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (vie.) November 9.
Murrumburrah November 9.
Parramatta November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
Queensland T. C November 9, 10.
Wyndham (Vic.) November 19.
Murrumbldgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
Dunedin (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting... November 29, 30.
Wellington Racing Club (N.Z ) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30.
Cootamundra December 1, 2.
Oamaru (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.
Southland (N ,Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Baimsdale (Vic.) December 21, 22.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
Williamstown (Vic.) December 26.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 27.
Sydney Turf Club December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 26 ; Jan. 1, 2.
V.R.C. Champion January 1.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) January 1.
Glen Innes January 2, 3.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting... Feb. 23,24,25 —1882.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11, 12—1882.
AQUATICS.
Electric Telegraph Annual Regatta October 1.
Boss v. Hanlan (Toronto) October.
M. Trial Pours October 8.
N. Rowing Association Regatta October 8,15.
All Schools’ Race—Mayor’s Trophy October 15.
Double Bay Regatta October 29.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
North Shore Rowing Club Regatta November 19.
South Australian Amateur Bowing Associa-
tion Regatta December.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
PEDESTBIANISM.
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club Sports October 1.
Brennan v. Qoodburn, 48 hours Go-as-you-
please, £5O, Osborne Hall, Forbes... October 5.
Swan v. Edwards, 48 hours Go-as.you-please,
£lOO October 6.
Hunter’s Hill Athletic Club Sports October 8.
Melbourne Cricket and Football Club Sports Nov. 9.
CRICKET.
Intercolonial, at Melbourne December 24, 28, 27.
All England v. Sydney December 9, 10,12.
All England v, Victoria December 16,17, 19.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Double Bay Regatta on October 29.
Hesperian was once sold for .£32 in Bathurst.
A match is being arranged between Aplitt and
Watson for £5OO a side.
The Kogarah Jockey Club have not yet en.
dorsed the disqualification of Mr. Mayo by the A.J.C.
The cricket season now opening promises to be
the most eventful in the history of Australian cricket.
A bet of .£5OOO to .£4OO has recently been taken
about the English two-year-old Harden, for the Derby
of 1882.
Tommy Corrigan, the steeplechase rider, has had
to undergo a rather painful operation. Ho is getting
over it well.
The Queensland Cricketing Association are now
offering Mr. Conway £350 for a visit of the All-England
Eleven to Brisbane.
The Martini-Henry rifles ordered by the Govern-
ment have arrived, and will be used in the Intercolonial
match, to be shot in Sydney in November.
The Cornell crew, who were to have beaten all
the English clubs, but didn’t, have sustained a defeat
on the Danube at the hands of an Austrian four.
The Mercantile Club will win the eight-oar race.
Messrs. Brett, Gaden, Medcalf, and Dobson will be
the probable starters for the senior sculling race.
It is said that Trump Yoss, prior to the Metro-
politan did a trial in 3 min. 31 sec. This is why the
stable piled it on him, and made him favourite at level
money.
Swan and Edwards have been matched for a 48-
hcurs go-as-you-please for £5O, open to £lOO, aside, to
commence on Thursday evening, 6th October, at 10
o’clock.
“Pendragon,” of the London Referee, pub-
licly offers to give a £lOO cup to Myers if he can run
the quarter mile in 48Jseo., the time recorded for him
in a late meeting.
The following horses have penalties in the
Melbourne Cup:—Wheatear, Sib.; Trump Yoss, 51b.;
Waxy, 51b.; Gres wick, 31b.; Primrose, 31b: Zulu, 31b.;
and Sardonyx, 31b.
The handball match for .£2O, Dillon v. Dwyer
and Molloy, the winners of the first three games of
21 up to take the money, resulted in the defeat of the
champion by one game.
The N.S.W. Coursing Club meeting had to be
postponed through lack of a quorum, only four mem-
bers being present. And yet we wonder why Victoria
is so much ahead of us in this sport.
The Victorian Cricket Association have ap-
pointed Mr. H. F. Boyle as selector of teams for the
forthcoming season. One good man’s pick is better
than that of an incompetent committee.
Mr. Charles Davis offers a .£7 7s. Waltham
watch for the highest aggregate scorer among the
Warwicks next season, and Mr. James Eellick gives a
£5 ss, trophy for the best batting average.
The Firemen’s one-hour race at the Hippodrome
resulted in the Ist and 2nd prize being divided
between Ashby and Hudson, who each did 8 miles 10
laps : Lyons securing 3rd prize, with 8 miles 9 laps.
Paterson people want some racing, but a paltry
£lOO for prizes seems to choke the movement. Anri
'et this is one of the principal racehorse breeding dis-
tricts in the colony. Shade of Tooal! has it come to
this.
At a late meeting of the Glen Innes J. C., Mr.
S. Brown, of the Commercial Hotel, offered to deposit
a cheque for the amount of the principal prizes for the
meeting in January. The meeting declined the liberal
offer.
A cross-country horse, belonging to the N.Z.
jockeys. Bob Bay and Lyford, is stated to have lately,
carrying list. 71b., cleared 32ft. distant from where he
rosa to where he alighted, in flying a hedge sft. 6in.
high.
The Duchess, who has been backed to win the
Melbourne Cup for about £50,000, is a 4-year-old, by
Manuka out of Princess, and she has appeared three
times in public—viz., second in the Maiden Plate at
Casterton, won the All-aged Stakes at Coleraine, and
won the Portland Handicap, one mile'and a half (last |
June), under 7st., in 2min. Stjsec. She has been in
training at Mr. James Wilson’s stable.
Of’ Triokett, “ Pendragon ” writes: “In
America he has failed as utterly as he failed in England.
He has shown no better ana no worse form. Dull
mediocrity is his lot, as measured by the transatlantic
standard.”
In connection with the arrangements for the
Thomson Junior Challenge Cup contests, several other
clubs have entered, and Mr. Cubitt has offered a five-
guinea trophy for the highest single innings’ score
during the contests.
Several fine American trotting horses were
landed on Friday from the E.M.S. Zealandia, and taken
to Darling’s bazaar (late Fennelly’s). They were
paraded on Saturday, and were much admired by
numerous good judges of horseflesh.
Mr. Frank Punch ha s offered a prize of ,£3OO
for Australian scullers, and if two American and two
English rowers contest, he will increase the prize to
£5OO. The event to come off next September, The
liberality of the offer needs no comment.
The following is the programme for the Electric
Telegraph Regatta:—All comers, single sculls; four
oars in clinker outriggers; pair oars ; youth under 19
years, pair oars ; double sculls, handicap; Messengers’
pair oars; pair oars ; four oars in clinker outriggers.
The Parramatta Jockey Club have decided
upon a liberal programme for the Prince of Wales
Birthday meeting. The club are negotiating for a new
site with a fine view of the course. When this is ready
the Club will be astounded at the popularity of their
meetings.
Sir Henry Parkes has promised to place ,£3OO on
the Estimates for the repair of the cricket ground, to
grant the loan of hurdles to enclose the playing ground,
and to see about providing accommodation in the Garden
Palace or the Agricultural Hall for the storing of
cricketing material.
In consequence of the bad weather, the Sydney
Amateur Athletic Sports were postponed to next
Saturday. This being the convincing day for the
Hunter’s Hill Athletic Club, they have postponed
their events a week longer, so as not to clash with the
metropolitan meeting.
The ill-natured people who said hard things of
Laycock after the first of his recent matches with Bush
will now forgive him when they calmly contemplate his
portrait in Saturday’s Evening News, which is under-
stood to represent him as he appeared after a fortnight’s
illness and sleeplessness.
There has been much groaning and gnashing of
teeth among the “fit” ones in consequence of the post-
ponement of the athletic sports. Training was carried
on under difficulties during last week; one competitor,
not to be baulked of his spin by a shower of rain, boldly
did his mile with a “ gingham” up.
The University and Carlton Clubs open the
cricket season on the Bth October with the first match
for Holdsworth, Qardyne and Co.’s Challenge Cup.
Against the formidable team Carlton is likely to put
forward, we opine that the representatives of Alma
Mater will have no easy task to win,
1881 is the greatest year ever known in British
amateur athletics ; there were never at any one time
on the cinder path so many first-class amateurs as now ;
and Myers and Merrill earned their honourable victories
in the hardest year which was ever known and against
the fastest British amateurs who ever put foot in a
shoe.
Lovers of cricket will regret to learn that Ned
Sheridan is unable to play this season—at least for two
or three months —on account of an injury to his right
hand. “ The Scud ” has ofttimes rendered yeoman
service, and pulled New South Wales through when
matters looked gloomy. Could not a benefit be
got up for him ?
The Hawkesbury Race Club and the V.R.C.
have endorsed the decision of the A.J.C., and have dis-
qualified Mr. John Mayo, his jockey (Smith), and
Elastic for twelve months. The backers of Hesperian
for the Melbourne Cup will be glad to hear that the
entry has been decided to be informal, and consequently
all wagers are off.
Wm. Gale, the English pedestrian, finished his
long walk of 6000 quarter-miles in as many quarter,
hours, successfully. Ho made no money by this walk,
but hopes to make some by forming a match with
another pedestrian. His longest walks were 2500 miles
in 1000 hours, and 4000 quarter-miles in consecutive
periods of ten minutes.
The principal event on the programme of the
Melbourne cricket and football clubs’ spring meeting
of athletic sports, to take place on November 9, is a
" Grand Intercolonial Handicap ” for all comers, the
first prize being £5O. second £2O, and the third jgio,
and the distances 150, 300, and 450 yards. Entries
will close on 21st October.
A chess tournament has just been concluded at
Berlin, between the English representative, Blackburne,
and the German representative, Zukertort. Blaok-
burne was the winner. Herr Zukertort was the winner
of the Paris tournament four years ago, and he re-
cently defeated Mr. Blackburne in a match for £lOO
aside, winning seven games to his adversary's two.
The English cricket match. Gentlemen v. Players,
terminated on 13th August, resulting in a win for the
Players by one run only. Both sides scored 204 in the
first innings; in the second, the Players scored 112.
The Gentlemen had lost nine wickets for 111 in their
second innings, when Mr. Appleby, the last batsman,
drove his first ball back to Shaw, who held it, amid great
excitement.
Twelve competitors started for the 50-mile walk-
ing event, at the Hippodrome, on Saturday. An
exciting match took place between Swan and Eaynor,
resulting in favour of Raynor, who finished his 50 miles
at 10.46 p.m., when the other scores were:—Swan, 49
miles 5 laps ; Spalding, 44 miles 5 laps; Ornes, 40 miles
1 lap. The others retired early from the contest. The
prizes were—first, £5O; second, £2O; third, £2 10s.
From the N.T. Clipper, Aug. 20 ; —“ On Aug.
13, Edward Hanlan telegraphed from Toronto to the
Boston Herald that he would, on the 15th, send money
to cover Wallace Boss' deposit lying at that office.
There is, therefore, every reason to anticipate a meet-
ing between these mighty scullers early in the Pall, as
the champion is understood to desire that the proposed
contest take place about October 1, most likely at
Toronto."
The programme of the N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion Regatta is as follows :—October 8: Maiden Oars-
men, four-oar gigs; Junior Scullers, in wager boats;
Senior Oarsmen, in eight-oar outriggers. October 15:
Scholars, in four-oar gigs, for Grand Challenge Cup;
Senior Scullers, in wager boats, for the Sydney Maiden
Challenge Cup; Junior Oarsmen, in four-oar outriggers,
for the Grand Challenge Cup. Entries close on Friday,
30th September.
The first annual meeting of the Sydney Homing
Pigeon Society took place last Thursday evening.
There is a balance of £23 at credit. Following are the
office-bearers for the ensuing season:—Presidents,
Mr. Thomas Thompson: vice-presidents, Messrs.
S. Hordern and W. Crane; secretaries, Messrs.
J. Wright and E. E. Hawkins; treasurer, J. Tancred;
committee, Messrs. W. Pratt, P. Freeman, Q. King, Q.
Smith, and T. Muagrave.
The All-England team is now on the voyage to
Australia, via America. It consists of the following :
Midwinter, Barlow, Pilling, Shaw, Ulyett, Bates, Look-
wood, Peate, Selby, Lillywhite, and Barnes. Shrews-
bury was to have come but it was cabled that he was
ill, and unable to accompany the team. They play the
Now South Wales team, in Sydney, on the 9tb, 10th,
and 12th December, and the Victorian team, in Mel-
bourne, on the 16th, 17th, and 19th of the same month.
The Schools’ race on October 15, for the Mayor’s
Challenge Cup, will be contested for by only two crews,
viz., Sjdney Grammar School and Eoyston College.
The latter school was unable to get a boat up to the
( last moment, when the North Shore Club kindly placed
a gig at its disposal. The race may be expected to
be a hollow affair, but as it is the initiatory contest,
we must not expect any great interest to be taken in
the event by the Scholars. The thing has been hurried.
For the Victorian Derby, Somerset is still
favourite at 7to 2, the Duke second at sto 1. Darebin
and Spinniugdale are also steadily supported. Tangle
has been backed to win the Maribyrnong Plate at 1000
to 50. The Duchess has been backed to win the Mel-
bourne Gup for an unprecedentedly large amount, and
Waxy, Bathurst, Wellington have been steadily sup. ,
ported. Soninas, the New Zealand Derby candidate,
has not been pleasing the touts with his morning gallops,
and has slightly receded.
Laycock did not appear to take notice of the
remarks of a certain section of the public, but he was
grieved that certain persons, whom he had regarded as
his friends, had made disparaging statements concern-
ing his rowing One of these gentlemen went so far
that Elias threatened an action for libel, but a most
abject apology being forthcoming, the It gal proceedings
were stopped. Laycock enquired from him what reason
he had for saying such hard things about him, to which
the d-.it-faiter replied, “I didn’t know you were so
sick.”
Mr. W. G. George, the former mile amateur
champion of England, goes to America, at the invita-
tion of the Manhattan Athletic Club, to meet Myers on
his own ground. Three matches have been arranged,
one of half a mile, one of three-quarters of a mile, and
another of a mile. Mr. George is best at a long dis-
tance. At Birmingham, recently, he won a thousand-
yards’ handicap from the scratch in2min. 18seo. This
beats the best amateur record in the world, Myers hav-
ing done the same distance in two minutes eighteen end
four-fifth seconds. - • ...
South Australian Jockey Club Spring meeting.
Results: —Hurdles: New Zealand 1, u.O.D. 2, Gold-
fish 3. Derby: Topaz 1, Israelite 2, Dutchman 3;
splendid race, won by two lengths ; time, 2min. 45sec.
Spring Handicap : Vagabond 1, Assyrian 2, Fictitious
3; won by a head; time, 2min. 12sec. Steeplechase;
Clifton 1, Buccaneer 2, Charlie 3; thirteen started. Th»
race was a chapter of accidents ; Clifton (ridden by
Batty) and Charlie were the only horses that did not
make mistakes: Le Roi was killed, and Bissett, the
rider of Momalong, had his leg broken. Holdfast
Handicap: Balbec 1, Israelite 2, Struck Oil 3; time,
Imin. It sec.
The firm of Messrs. Krug and Co. have sent to
their agents in Sydney, Messrs. Curcier and Adet, the
offer of a trophy, valued at 100 guineas, to be competed
for on the Parramatta River, by amateur scullers. This
will prove an interesting aquatic event, and the title
of champion amateur of New South Wales will thereby
be created. The Laidley Sculls race is supposed to
bring out our best amateurs, but that event having
invariably been “sandwiched” between other equally
important events, has always failed in bringing all the
best scullers to the post. A contest between Messrs.
Brett and Lord would excite much more interest in
aquatic circles than any professional race. It is to be
hoped that this trophy will not be “ hole-and-cornered,”
but that the Rowing Association will have something
to say in the arrangements.
At a further meeting of the Warwick Crioket
Club, Mr. P. B. Walker was unanimously elected presi-
dent, and Mr. Dunlop treasurer, in the room of Mr.
James Kelliok, resigned. The latter gentleman has
held the office for seventeen years, and it is mainly due
to his liberality that the club has been able to tide over
the disastrous fortunes of the past few years. His
resignation was accepted with great regret, and the
Warwicks intend to give him a testimonial. Messrs.
O. Davis, J. Cullen, and W. Clark, were added to the
list of vice-presidents. A subscription was opened for
Ned Gregory for his services to the club during the
past season. Several new members were elected, and it
was announced that the debt of the club was already
wiped out, and that practice wickets would be secured
for the forthcoming season on the Domain and Associa-
tion Grounds.
From the report of the annual meeting of the
Carlingford Cricket Club, it appears that during the
past season its first eleven played in 25 matches, six of
which were won, ten lost, and nine drawn. The second
eleven played 16 matches, winning nine, losing six, and
drawing one. The club trophies were awarded as follows;
—First Eleven: batting, J. A. Brodie; bowling, t!
Read. Second Eleven: batting, H. Hughes; bowling,
W. Johnson. Mr. W. J. Trickett’s trophy for the
highest average scorer went to to H. Hickson, and Mr.
T. Read’s cup, to be won twice, for highest individual
score in the first eleven, has been won for the first time
by Mr. 8. Walford, with 73 runs. Mr. James Eve’s
trophies for highest aggregate scores, fell to Messrs S
Walford and H. Hughes. Following are the office-
bearers : —President, W. J. Trickett, M.L.A.; vice-pre-
sidents, T. Read, J. H. Carruthers, F. Way, Meares;
secretary, E. Lumsdaine; assistant secretary, Mr’
EUard; treasurer, F, Way; delegate, A. Blackmore;
committee, Messrs. Ayres, Blackmore, Curtis, Fowler)
Hughes, Johnson, Saunders and Walford; selection
committee, Messrs. J. Brodie, A. Blackmore, F. Hughes.
At the meeting of the Laycock Testimonial
committee, on Friday evening, Mr. D. O’Connor, M.P.,
handed to Laycock a cheque for £3OB, and presented
him with the address which was read to him on his
arrival from England. Laycock made a suitable reply,
and repudiated the stigma which had been oast upon
him in regard to his late defeat by Rush, He stated
that in all his career in boat-racing he had never
faced the flag with any other intention than that of
winning if he could. He went to England and did his
best there ; and he thought the hardest thing he had to
bear was that he should return to his own country to have
his name bandied about as that of a swindler. Four
days out of the week before he pulled Rush, hejwas sick ;
he thought even then he could win, and tried his best to
do so, but failed. As already stated, he asked Bush
to postpone the race, but the latter declined unless he
received £5O. —Laycock is blamed for not making his
illness publicly known before the race, so that his
backers might not be too sanguine. Nothing succeeds
like success. We recollect Hickey, with a great blister
on his chest, beating Rush easily. If he had lost, no
one would have believed in his illness.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
4000 young trout from Tasmania have been
safely placed in the Torrens An Adelaide paper says
it is a moot question among the bookmakers whether
Mr. W. A. Long would be better on the turf or under
the turf The trophy shot for by the Newcastle
Volunteer Infantry, was won by Private Charles Eiley.
The prize was announced to be a gold watch and chain
valued at £2O, but when the winner received the Wal-
tham watch and silverchain, which he had been shooting
for for nine months, he found that they were valued at
£6. This is a shabby way of encouraging sport A
foot-race for a trophy came off in the Domain, on the
19th instant, between A. Stewart and W. Dymock, re-
suiting in an easy victory for the latter, who gave his
opponent three yards’ start. Another race followed be-
tween Stewart and Crego, when Stewart was again
easily beaten The Hawkesbury Pace Club cleared
£547 12s 6d over the late Spring meeting The Brou-
lee Jockey Club Races are announced for January 26
and 27. The programme includes the Morava Cup of
100 sovs The N.B. Wales hurdle-racer Sportsman
has gone into A. Davis’ stable The Glebe v. Darling-
ton cricket match will take place on the University
Oval, on 9th November A special prize of a gold
locket will be awarded in the “ ladies ” go-as-you-please
to the best dressed lady—that is to say, we suppose, the
lady who is last, or beaten most 24 horses have been
entered for the Wollongong Handicap, to come off on
October 12 Mata and Bob Ray have been disquali-
fied by the Wanganui (N.Z.) Jockey Club 'lhe Liver-
pool Daily Post states that the Australian cricketers
by their last tour, netted £5OOO clear of expenses A
football match was played at Geelong, Saturday, between
the local and Carlton clubs. It resulted in a victory for
Geelong by four goals to Carlton’s three South Mel-
bourne defeated Melbourne easily, at football, on Satur-
day, by five goals to nil The Brisbane, Excelsior, and
Wallaroo football clubs close the season at Queen’s
Park, Brisbane, on the Bth Oct., with athletic sports.
The programme issued includes 14 events Clio v.
Glebe Strathmore clubs, at Camperdown, ©n Saturday,
resulted in a draw. The Clio cricketers made 155 runs s
G. Ford 58, P. Milwain 24, J. Smith 23, and E. Abel 17,
being the principal contributors. The Strathmore club
had lost two wickets for 13 runs, when time was called,
A. Swcetman taking the two wickets for two runs
Perseverance v. Balmain clubs, on Moore Park, last
Saturday, resulted in a win for the former by 34 runs—
P.C.C. 55, 8.C.G., 21. Hawksford (13) and Collins (10)
were the chief scorers, and Chippindale and Hinchy
bowled well for the winners Contractor, Mr. J. J.
Miller’s trotting stallion, pleased the Melbourne judges
at Kirk’s Bazaar Grip, Libeller, and Lady Emma are
first favourites for Christchurch (N.Z.) J.C. Handicap,
and Mata is at the short price of 4 to 1 for the Cup
Mr. P. B Walker, the president of the Warwick C.C.,
has promised a valuable trophy for the coming season
for that club Cricket is likely to receive another
blow. Eumour has it that the Newtown ground is to
be cut up into building allotments. We hope for the
sake of the old Newtown Club, and for that of cricketers
in general, that this story is untrue A rifle mutch on
the 17th instant between members of the Staff and Non-
Commissioned Officers of the Ist Regimert Volunteer
Infantry, six aside, at 500 and 600 yards, seven shots at
each range, resulted in farveur of the Staff by 38
points The hounds taken to Singleton last week
prevented from running on account of wet weather.
They will hunt this Thursday and Saturday, also twice
next week. The week following they will hunt twice at
Maitland The All Saint’s College annual sports at
Bathurst, on Saturday, proved a great success. Nearly
every one of the twenty events on the programme at-
tracted numerous entries, and all of them were keenly
contested. The foot-races were especially good, and
the “ obstacle ” races, introduced for (he first time in
New South Wales, proved very anci essful. Prizes were
presented to the winners at the) concluison of tjje day’s
sport At the Eton Football Club’s picnic at 'i en-
nyeon, on Saturday 13th, memh rs started in a 160
yards handicap, which was won e.sily by Wooller,
Golding second, and Downs third. The 100 jards race
for the Club’s medal, presented by Mr Golding, proved
a very hollow affair for D'Arietta, Lee second, and Co wie
third At Toowoomba show Mr. Ricardo, of Franklin
Vale, showed an entire pony not over 12 hands high,
foaled and bred in Victoria. He is a wonderful jumper,
making nothing of hopping over four-foot hurdles. He
goes to the stud The Hero of Waterloo and Royal
Orient C.C.’s met on Saturday at Eveleigh. Scores:
85 and 46 (for 8 wickets) respectively. After their
eighth wicket had fallen, the Orients sent a substitute
to the wickets. He was o> jeef ed to, the men they had
in the field being still on the ground. They refused to
send the proper man in, so time was called, and the
game claimed by the Heroes.
* # *
Jagendorfer, the Danish gymnast, puts up 250-
pound dumb-bells, lifts 1100 pounds with one band
ditto 1000-pound cannon, which is fired off while he is
holding it up Mr. Tom Dale, the English deserter,
who was arrested in England last year when playing
cricket with the “ Canadian Team,” has served his time
and returned to Detroit E. P. Weston, the veteran
pedestrian, has taken an engagement in England as a
temperance lecturer Duriug last English steeple-
chase season, three fatal accidents occurred. It is
curious that none of them occurred in consequence of
the fences, each having happened from falling on the
flat Myers, the American amateur champion runner,
looks very much like a nigger Raby, the English-
man who beat Merrill, the champion amateur American
walker, is but 21 years of age Bob Emery, eldest
son of Sam, is very unwell Madame Franzini, the
female bicyclist, is creating a sensation at the Elephant
aud Castle, London, by guiding her machine among a
number of blazing champagne bottles I Gunner Da' ia
won tiie Queen’s prize at Brisbane, in the rifle competi-
tion, for the intercolonial teams Jupp realised £450
by his benefit match. North v. South The extra-
ordinary score of 531 for the loss of 3 wickets was made,
July 20, at Cowes. H.,C. Damant, 213 not out, and
Major Chemside, 128 not out, were the chief con-
tributors The Derbyshire Friars scored 742 in an
innings, July 20 and 21, at Derby, England. Captain
Johnstone and Q. B. Barrington, the first two at the
wickets, made 406 between them off the bat, and the
entire two days were occupied in playicg the innings....
Champion Myers was banqueted bv members of the
Manhattan Club at Martiuelli’s, on Fifth Avenue, on
Wednesday evening, August 10 A paper shell is
being built for Courtney, to be within two pounds of
the lightest single-scull ever made 400 runs have
thrice been scored in England by one ir d'vidual, and
these were by E. F. S. Tyleoote, who made 404 not out,
in a school match at Clifton in 1868 ; by W. Q. Grace,
who made 400 not out, at Great Grimsby, for the United
Eleven of England, against twenty-two of Worsley
Club, in 1876; and by W. N. Roe, on July 12, 13, who
made 415 not out, tho largest score on record When
shall we stop at best records ? Maude S. lops off jof a
second regularly, Myers the runner goes on beating
his best, and no race meeting passes in Australia with-
out a best time on record being performed. Tho N.Y.
Clipper, referring to this subject, says it is only a
question of time as to when there will be no time left
to cut down. Maude S. has reduced her mile trotting
time to 2min. lOjfsec. Her party hope in course
of time to get the record down to 2.o6min
The Grand Prlx de Paris of 1883 has closed with 413
entries In a six days’ walking match at New Orleans,
a ped. named Bowman encountered a “ lady” walkist
named Dupree. After Bowman had walked 24 hours,
he retired, so did Madame, with his record at 106 miles,
hers at 100. When he returned to tho track, he found
that Madame still slept, but her score had been in-
creased by 13 miles. This is the latest case of sleep-
walking Jacob Gaudaur defeated Wise at Leslievilfe
in a match in skiffs for 500 dollars, four miles with a
turn, at Orillea, Ontario, July 23. Time, 29min. 50sec.
The Consolation Race, won by Triokett at the
Toronto Regatta, was for oarsmen not winning a prize
in the single-scull race, one mile and a-half and return.
The first prize was 100 dollars, second 50, third 25
The half-mile race for the English Amateur Swim-
ming Championship) was won, on July 16, by
D. Ainsworth, ex-mile champion, in 14min.
William Lumsden, the English sculler, rowed three
miles, with a turn, against Nick Layberger, for five
hundred (dollars, on July 23. Layberger won easily in
22min. 40seo John Keen won the five mile profes-
sional bicycle-race for the championship, a gold chrono-
graph and £2O, at Wolverhampton, England, Aug. 3.
The English papers raised a howl about Merrill
being a manufacturing jeweller. They said he ought,
therefore, not to be classed as a gentleman amateur.
The American papers have discovered that Raby, who
beat Merrill in the seven-mile walk, is a carter in
receipt of a very small wage. They remind these
English crusaders that they will do well to avoid
America until they have spent a few t ears in earnest
and efficient home missionary work Italy, like Eng.
land, Austria, and France, is to have her Derby. The
first Italian Derby will be run in 1881. Entries for it
closed recently.
We have the prospectus of the Australian
Printers’ Art Journal, to be published in Sydney.
It is said that in a certain hospital thirty
patients suffering from the same disease were put in
ihree separate wards, ten in each. The first ward was
treated allopathically, and only a third recovered; the
second homoeopathically, and half were restored; in the
last ward the patients were simply let alone, and they
all got well 1 Si non i vero, e hen trovato !
Two ironclads, building abroad, have been
seized owing to the mystery surrounding the part es
who ordered them. It is now stated that they were
being built for the Irish American Skirmishers. As
these ironclads will probably serve the Fenians as
ours have served us, it seems folly to have seized them.
The ironclad is far more fatal to friend than enemy.
Thus Vanity Fair “ Scarcely any of the
numerous great victories of the British army during
the first 130 years of its existence are commemorated
by inscriptions on the colours of regiments. For
example Blenheim, Oudenarde, aud Malplaquet are
utterly ignored. Why should not the pie sent oppor-
tunity of setting to rights everything military bo
seized to repair the omission ? If things go on as they
are going on at present, there are likely to be but few
additions to the roll of victories. Bet us therefore, in
heaven’s name, make the most of the past.”
One day a sporting man was anxious, from a
patriotic to back the flocks of the Duke of
Sutherland as being more extensive than those of the
Hungarian, Count Bathyauy, and ask- d the Count how
many sheep he possessed, naming, at the same time, the
number owned by the Scottish nobleman. “ Well,” he
replied, “ I don't know how many sheep I hold, but I
have at least as many shepherds as that.”
Last Sunday night it was verging upon the
witching hour, when a gentleman let himself into his
house in Darlinghurst Road, and found his wife waiiing
up for him. “Why, Angelina,” he said, up at this
hour?” “Yes,” she replied; “cook hasn’t come In
yet. I can't understand it.” Just then a ring was
heard at the bell. " Mind you give her a good taikiug
to, George,” said the mistress ot the house : and then
she rose up and went to the front door. “ What do
yon mean by coming in at this hour ? lam afraid you
are getting into bed company, cook,” said her mistress.
“ I wasn’t doin’ no harm, mum,” she replied. “ I was
only walking with my brother in the Domain, mum,
and wo was just behind master all the time,” Tho
husband postponed the reprimand sine die.


I ASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALES, AND
1 SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
BED.
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24s to 36s Od 1 Good Sherry 24s to 36s Od
SPIRITS.
«a~ Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of one sort, otherwise
6d. per dozen extra will be charged.
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town or to the Wharves or Redfem Railway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH.
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANT,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
L
AEGEST
ESTABLISHMENT
KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
OP
THE
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST.
Pure Ceylon Tea
2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s
per lb.
Pure Java Tea
Pure Indian Tea
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended to.
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3id per lb.
T
HE Most PERFECT-FITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANNELL’S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
Shirt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN’S MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
gMALL POX. SMALL POX.
PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CUBE.
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHET is the best PRE-
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX. Price, Is.; from all
Chemists.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
Affiliated to Trin. Coll., London.
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Principal :
Dr. RODWAY, M.A., F.B.S L. (Lon.)
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY are conducted by Dr.
RODWAY, and the number of students in each class is
strictly limited to TEN, so that he may give to each
gentleman that individual attention whieh will alone
secure success. Dr. Bodway’s system is easy and effi-
cient, and he guarantees to pass every candidate he
sends to the University—Law, Civil Service, and all
Public Examinations.
FEES ; Per term, in advance, for each class ... £4 4s.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor will be
awarded upon the conclusion of each term.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE. 191 William-street, Sydney.
DR. RODWAY ... PRINCIPAL.
qHIAL
L//t>
&
&
%
A/
ft
*
K
i
i
£
A
imm,
ss
rjIHE INTERCOLONIAL.
HEAD OFFICE: 263 GEORGE STREET.
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO. SUBSCRIBED; £42,049.
LIFE and FIRE INSURANCES.
LOWEST RATES of PREMIUM.
W Policy holders participate to the extent of foor>
fifths in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
IHE FESTIVAL OF THE SEASON.
LICENSED VICTUALLERS' ASSOCIATION OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
PICNIC, BANQUET, BALL,
TUESDAY, October 4th,
SIR JOSEPH BANKS PAVILION, BOTANY.
Tickets: Gent.’s, one guinea; lady’s, half-guinea;
children, 5s j to be had of members of the Council of the
Association. J. B. OLLIFFE.
Tailors, Drapers, bo.
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MAEKET CLOTH HALL.
482, lato 484, GEOEGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LAEGE and -WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTEENS,
DIEECT from the MANUFACTUEEES.
FASAIONABLE
and
FIEST-CLASS GAEMENTS
TO OEDEE.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHEUNK
AND A PEKFECT FIT GUARANTEED,
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST'S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Pull directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is. ; What to wear. Is. j Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 Kino Stbekt, Sydney (two doors from George-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
E O. L. LINEKER,
** HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOR,
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATH
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work-
manship, &e., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM GEORGE STREET.
JJ A V E
YOU BEEN
TO
E,. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
JgLISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot bo executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or moner order.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME~WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., out in different
sizes for Ladies and Child,
ren furnished with illustra
tions and directions for mak-
ing up. Sold at prices rang-
ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OP
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Addresss
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
r
a
sac
<s>
m
set
a
Pa
&
%
m
56
V*
&
DURKE, COULSON, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS. WOOLBROKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A Sydney girl who haa joined the Mormons,
now considers herself “ quite too consumately Utah.”
At Gunnedah, a white woman is living with the
blacks, who bate the sight of her, and say she’s very
dirty.
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts is looking ten
years younger than she did before her marriage. It’s
quite the other way with Ashmead.
Princess Dolgoronky, the widow of the late
Czar, is staying, with her family and a large retinue of
domestics, at Elsher, a small watering-place near
Leipsio.
In London, an old lady of 93 has just recovered
from a severe attack of small-pox; while another
ancient dame has just thrown off this mortal coil at
the age of 101.
If it makes a white woman bewitching to stick a
piece of black court-plaster on her face, why wouldn’t
a piece of white court-plaster make a black woman
appear positively charming ?
A London correspondent says :—“ The crinoline
at the Queen’s ball was appalling. It is said that
Worth, in view of his many rivals, found it necessary
to make a coup, and selected crinoline as his weapon.”
Miss Pinneo, who recently defeated Miss Curtis
at Leadville, has accepted the challenge issued by Miss
Augusta Bryant, the famous lady rider of Essex, Eng-,
land, for a twenty mile race, and the match will be
decided shortly.
Mrs. Rowe, of Smithtown, Macleay, the other
day trod on a large carpet-snake, w hich seized her
dress in its mouth and coiled round her body as far up
as the neck. It was with great difficulty that she could
be released, which was done by a Mr. Sweeny cutting the
reptile in t wo.
When a woman gets frightened at night, she
just pulls the bed-covers over her head, says she is
soared, and goes to sleep; but with a man it is different.
He says he is not afraid, pushes the covers down, and
lies tremblingly awake for two or three hours, strain-
ing his ears at every sound.
The actress who was engaged to ride in Adam
Forepaugh’s procession as the most beautiful woman
in America, has been discharged, and she now threatens
to sue the manager, not for the £6 a week which was
to be her actual pay, but for the £2500 prize which in
his advertisement he awarded her.
In New Mexico, a man tied his wife firmly to a
board, leaned her thus helpless against a fence, took a
position 50ft. away, and used her as a target for rifle
Sractice. He did not hit her, his object being to
righten her by imbedding the bullets in the board
close to her head and body. She fainted under the
frightful ordeal.
The exclusion of lady practitioners from the
international medical congress at London was effected
by Sir William Jenner, at the instance of Queen
Victoria, who is opposed to all attempts of the sex to
improve themselves. However, it was said that the real
reason was that the doctors thought the ladies would
look too killing.
The Princess of Wales is represented as looking
at a recent state boll, the “ prettiest and most charm-
ing lady in England." Her dress was of silver-grey
tulle, embroidered in a Greek pattern, with pearls, and
caught here and there with bouquets of silver daisies.
The tulle train was spangled with silver, the corsage
was studded with pearls and diamonds, and the tiara
that crowned the princess’s soft brown hair was mode
of the same precious stones.
The very latest invention is the “ winking ”
photograph. One negative is taken with the sitter's
eyes open; another without change of position, with
the eyes shut. The two negatives printed on opposite
side of the paper, “ registering ” exactly. Held be-
fore a flickering lamp, or other variable source of light,
the combined photographs show rapid alternations of
closed and open eyes, the effect being that of rapid
winking. We know some girls from whom we have
long expected a wink. At last we are happy, for we con
get it now.
Scene: A bedchamber. Enter husband, very
slightly sober j falls over chair and other trifling ob-
stacles. Gentle voice of ** sweet woman” from the pil-
low : “ George Edward, you are a brute —a cold, heart-
less brute—to come home at this hour; it’s nearly
morning.” “No, ish not, darling; ish early, ish just
one.” "It is long past one; it’s almost daylight.”
George Edward, slowly and with emphasis: “ Ishn’t
past one, Mary ; I know it ishn’t past one. I heardsh
parlour clock as I came upstairs, on’ it shtruok .one
four times."
Lady Burdett-Coutts is said to have made an
amicable settlement with her relatives concerning her
fortune. " Since her marriage," says Olive Logan,
11 she has lived in more costly fashion than ever be-
fore. The dinners she has given in her Piccadilly re-
sidence have formed a marked feature of brilliancy of
this season, and they have been attended by persons of
very high standing in the social world, though British
royalty has held aloof, The slight is all the more
marked, as in former times there was no subject in all
the kingdom whom the Queen loved more to honour
than Burdett-Coutts. As for Mr. Bartlett, every one
agrees that he is the soul of chivalrous devotion to his
kind wife, and she seems delighted with her handsome
American husband.”
Mr. John Whitwell, M.P. for Kendal, died a
few months ago. After his death, his daughter and
nephew searched for a will, but as they didn’t find one
they proceeded to take out letters of administration.
After six months, however, a will turned up which
did not dispose of the bulk of his property, but be-
queathed a sum of £20,000 to a young lady to whom he
was attached, but whose friends would not allow him
to marry. Some time before he died he sent her a
sealed packet with directions that it was not to be
opened till six months after his death. She followed
his instructions, with the result that she is now the
possessor of a handsome competency. If the old
gentleman’s object was to take everybody all round by
surprise, ho thoroughly accomplished it.
“ Why do men cling to their wives ?” For
various reasons. Through habit, as one likes the cosy
arm-chair he is always certain to find in the one place
on coming home. Through economy: you could not
hire a servant who would not cost you twice as much,
and serve you only half as well. Through love of peace:
a separation would cause so much scandal, and create so
much trouble. Through imitation: everybody else
sticks to his wife so one must do like the balanoe.
Through decorum: it mokes a man respectable.
Through philosophy: ail women resemble each other.
Through petty vanity: because everybody says, * Oh,
what a splendid woman 1’ Through remorse of con-
science : ‘ Poor little woman, it is not her fault that I
am tired of her.’ And finally, strange to say, a man
sometimes—early in the wedded life—clings to his wife
through love l
A “ Novelist’s ready-made assistant ” is abou
to be issued. It consists of ready-made descriptions,
of which a large stock has been prepared. The usual
novel requires a full set of descriptions, something like
this:—
1 Hero (fair or dark, as 1 Storm
desired) 1 Bleak Day
Heroine (ditto) 1 Small Catastrophe.
Heavy Villain. (Extra sin- (Runaway, Fire, Ship-
isters cost 25 per cent. wreck, Mine Disaster,
more) Ac., as desired)
Old Mothers 1 Dream
Confidential Clerk 1 Wedding Day. (Child-
Intriguing Adventuress ren strewing Flowers
1 Lady’s Maid extra)
1 Old Housekeeper Or
1 Curate 1 pr. Lives Parted for
1 Family Doctor ever.
2 Sunsets
Here are a few lines from Blank 1, Ordinary Quality
Heroine: —" At this time [Fill in with name
of Heroins'] was a beautiful girl of [oji]. Her
clustering golden looks waved in wanton profusion over
her snowy brow, like liquid sunlight seen above the
azure heaven of her eyes. [Simile erfra.] The tender
rosebud glow upon her cheeks rivalled ”
The poems of Oscar Wilde, the aesthete, display
much study of the Greek Pastorals and an ardent love
of Milton’s delightful ildyllics. There is one strain,
however, that pervades the conception of every poem>
the thou ght “of what great things I might have
essayed had I not once made choice of the passion of
love rather than that of ambition.” This idea pervades
the prefatory poem, aud re appears here and there
throughout the volumes, culminating in the closing
poem with—
“ I have made my choice, and have lived my poems ;
and though youth is gone in wasted days,
I have found the lover’s crown of myrtle better than
the poet’s crown of bays."
Wilde is of the same school as Swinburne, and is akin
to Shelley and Keats ; but although like Swinburne, his
poems possess but little of that extreme fidelity to
nature which has made much of Swinburne’s verse ex-
tremely sensual.
Mr. P. E. Naur an, the Mayor of Townsville, is
very ill.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv,
An American physician haa cured himself of
small-pox by eating lemons, and looks upon the fruit as
a specific of as much certainty and power in small-pox
as quinine is in intermittent fever.
There are 3,600,000 persons vaccinated in Lon-
don, and 190,000 nuvaccinated. The death-rate from
small-pox against the vaccinated is 90 per million, and
amongst the unvaccinated 3350 per million.
Use Jannasoh’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
game, fish, milk, Ac., sweet during the hottest weather,
by speedy and simple process ; no deleterious chemical
used. To be had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt.— Advt.
At Sheepshead Bay, America, on June 23, Glen-
more, 6 yrs, with 7st. 12lb. up, won a If mile race in
3min. Ifsec. This is claimed by the Americans as the
fastest time the distance has ever been run in, and it
beats their best record by Ifseo. But the American
time-pieces are so slow, you know.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
nncolonred teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet. — Karl Theodore Staioer, analytical
chemist.”— Advt.
The Murrurundi Times is informed, on reliable
authority, that a member of Parliament for one of the
Northern districts is so illiterate that, since his election,
he has attended a night-school in Sydney, in order to
render himself somewhat fitted to discharge his im-
portant duties. In the meantime, his constituency,
although an important one, is unrepresented.
He happened to press the foot of a young lady
who was sitting next to the door in getting out of a
tramway car. The damsel, compressing her brow into
an awe-inspiring frown, ejaculated: “ You clumsy
wretch!” Many men would have looked foolish and
apologised, but this man was equal to the occasion.
“My dear young lady," he exclaimed, “you should
have feet large enough to be seen, and then they
wouldn’t be trodden upon.”
Messrs. Newberry and Dunn, the analysts, the
other day examined in Melbourne, 80 samples of milk,
not one of which was up to the mark. One sample had
50 per cent of water added and two-thirds of the cream
removed. In Victoria, alum and blnestone are fre-
quenly put into bread to make it white. “ Cocoa ” has
75 per cent, of starch and glucose, “ the latter being so
bad that it could not be sold in the ordinary way.”
Colonial mustard consists almost entirely of starch,
turmeric, and cayenne pepper.
The cup given by Messrs. Lassetter and Co., for
competition at the Ooulburn ploughing match, was
for youths, and was not for champion prize. The
latter consisted of £l5 in cash, and was won by James
Bugg, a local man of repute, who also carried oil the
silver cup in the Australasia v. the World match. He
is a native of Suffolk, and came to the colony as a child.
His family are noted for their ploughing feats. The
father was sick on this occasion, otherwise the young-
sters wouldn’t have had a show.
“ Stone-walling ” for nine days and nights took
place in the N.Z. House of Representatives on the Re-
presentation Bill, but eventually the Government came
off best, fining one of the members, Mr. Gisborne £2O.
During the progress of the fight, men with bleared and
sunk; i eyes, protruding cheek bones, gaunt angular
frames, and scraggy fingers, were to be seen stalking
ghost-like through the lobbies or stretching their
wearied limbs on the downy benches. Paunchy men
grew loose and flabby, and their once neatly fitting gar-
ments hung on them like bags. During the trouble one
of the Maori members proposed to warble a song in his
own language to while away the time.
A South African diamond weighing one ounce,
and described as finer in colour than the Kohinoor, is at-
tracting large crowds in London, The owner has been
offered £150,090 for a half share... The Dnke of Argyle, it
is said, will marry the widow of the late Hon. Augustus
Anson. The lady is the daughter of the Bishop of
Si.. Albans It is reported from London that Victoria
Woodhull is about to marry a rich young banker In
a railway accident at Chatham, Eng., a little boy had
his head out off. There was nothing by which his
identity could be discovered, but the railway officials
found in one comer of the fallen carriage a bag contain-
ing pigeons. Suspecting that these belonged to the
boy they tied to the leg of each of the birds a piece of
p«4>er stating what had occurred, and then liberated
them. Three hours afterwards a gentleman residing at
Flumstead, several miles distant, arrived to claim the
body as that of his son Jake Bryant, a Georgia
negro, cut out his eyes with a penknife to escape being
set at hard work in the penitentiary, to which he had
been sentenced for ten years The mate and crew
of the Sarah 8011, sent to gaol at Adelaide for mutiny,
have hod their sentences remitted A petri-
fied woman has been found at Cascade Lake, Carson,
Nev. The petrification has a hideous appearance, and
weighs 2001 b It was apparently formed from the body
of an Indian woman The last survivor of the Grena-
dier battalion which accompanied Napoleon I. to Elba,
after his first abdication at Fontainebleau, Jacques Ray-
mond, died in Paris, the other day, aged 96.
INTAGLIO.
Wattle Bloom.
The pink-eyed almond-blossom threw
Its petall’d drifts of white,
To the young grass a lighter dew
Clung through the fresh spring night,
Gay wattle bloom hid blade-like leaves.
The earth, now smiles —now tears,
Brought promises of garner’d sheaves
And long Australian years.
’Twas August, and I saw the birds
Dart through the sunset glow,
And heard her sing some simple words,
Whose tune too well I know.
She held a bough of wattle bloom,
And said, “If Death divine
Should take me first, let o’er my tomb
These yellow glories shine.”
Then, with her sweet adventure done.
Our childless house was thrill’d;
She smiled a mother with her one
Great hope of life fulfill’d.
I sat, and held her dear, thin hand.
And watched her patient eyes
Turn where the wattle bloom was farm’d
By winds as soft as sight.
*Tis August, and above my head
The scented branches wave.
But underfoot the lovely dead
Lie in their silent grave.
She sleeps—the baby on her breast,
Nor lonely in the gloom,
For shining o’er their quiet rest
Droops yellow wattle bloom.
—AUSTRALASIAN.


Hotels, &c.
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUAE
AND CASE.
AQ-EN T—G EORGE
BBiDGB STREET CHA
OOLALTA WINE
IX9 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to
that owing to the Increasing demar
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Although the principal business \
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quav, will be retail
WINES IN LARGE BULK and
TRADE.
esr Having arranged with his 1
WILKINSON, late Manager of the
io act in conjunction with Mr.
Sydnev, he feels confident that, wi
the above-named two experienc
favours will be attended to with tl
tude.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN MUSI
Wanted to purchase specimens of .
and Rengh Gems.
edwar;
AND
GIBBS
Antomatio
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEW
416 GEORGE STRI
T
HOM AS
WEBB
BOND-STREET
Beg to inform their customers the
OPENED a LARGE COSSIGNMI
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, an
Hotels, fte.
The compagnoni catering company
OF PITT-STBEET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior " Alcock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Catering (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Caf<s, opposite Peapes and Shaw's).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthdav Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire,
has. r. Smith,
MANAGER.
JjIOLE Y
’ S NATIONAL
BRIDGE STREET,
HOTEL.
(Opposite Bulletin Office.)
R. W. FOLEY, PROPRIETOR,
BOARD AND RESIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIARDS.
Hotels, 9so.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
AT.Ti THE BEST BRANDS OE ALE AND PORTER,
la PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B. —Cockburn’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
Hotels, &o
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
A
-1
GUINNESS’S EXTEA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
he Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
TheFurestStimuiant
£**£ WORV2
The Heme of M. MOSS & 00.
la on erery Genuine Bottle.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
RK
It la of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle shonld be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in ,small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage shonld compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,"AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
ALBURY WINES.
RED. WHITE.
Petit Verdot Muscat
Port Malvesia
Shiraz Tokay
Carbinet Fontignae
Hermitage Reisling
Malbec Madeira
Verdeilho
HUNTER RIVER WINES.
Claret Hock
Lambrusoat V erdeilho
Pineau
PORT MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
pIALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
VINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
utimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
,nd the public may rely upon getting any given sample
md in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES,
'hese Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris 1864
Vienna »>
Philadelphia ,» ... .... ••• ••• .
dso at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIKST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
leisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitag*
7erdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
fokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINGS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, &o.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, GEORGE-ST.
F la not the clearness or conditio
Ale that preserves this brand
elation. Common bitter crude beers
bat no other brand has the same ms
ter, the fulness on the palate, an(
gTiii.lit.ias of the Bull Dog Ale. Co
fore cautioned against traders who
OS
B
O A E’S HEAD
'l h.s favourite bran
S T 0
1b selected with great care from th
Inge of the celebrated Ann of AET
knd CO., Dublin, and therefore cam
To be Procured Every
J B. CATTED
Hookings & co.’s old
Australian Wine strengthens the
system against infections diseases.
Opposite Cut Bank, PITT STREET.
Hm
K
1
Money.
IJNION LOAN AND DISCOI
OFFICES : 760 GBOEQB STE]
3 doors from A. Hordern
Hours —9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PE:
security, payable by instalments, as
£lO by weekly instalments of
15
20
25
30
60
And in due proportion up to £lOO
SPECIAL NOTIC
To borrowers not able to transact
day, the offices will be open Monda;
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 QEOEQE BTEEET,
3 doors from A. Hordern
T
O SMALL FREEHOLD AI
PROPRIETORS
MONET LENT on mortgage of
of from £5 to £6OO, upon the we
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent en deposit of deeds, w
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION I *
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760
market.
ONDON
MORTGAGE,
DISCOUNT BAf
109 ELIZABETH BTEEET SOUT
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED II
SPECIAL NOTIC
The Directors place before those d
advantages upon easy terms —UN
advantages. Their method of tran
highly commended, CONCESSIO
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE
BILLS OP SALE on furniture,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bondec
ties. Personal effects, &c.,
AND UPON ANY EEASONAB
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Acce
COUNTED daily. tt
Repayments by WEEKLY,
QUARTERLY instalments; or as
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interview


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Carlotta Patti and De Munck have been giving
c mcerts at Palermo Kate Foley has joined the
Edonm-Sparks Company in the States Ketten took
away from Australia £BOOO net profits Cole cleared
*33,000 with his circus in Australia Dave Hayman,
formeriy Hiscocks’ partner, is in New York. Letters
addressed to Haverly’s Fourteenth-street Theatre
will reach him How absurdly things are named on
the stage. The man who comes nearest starving is
called “ soup." The Mastodons were at Sandhurst
on the 20th, and the Bendigo In dependent gives them
1 its of jam. It remarks: —“ Mr. Matlock was loudly
welcomed. The poor fellow was literally smashed to
pieces, and presented a shocking sight.”—Oh, we beg
pardon, we have used up, by accident part of a horrible
railway accident, which disputes the place of honour
with the critique on the Mastodons The Marcus
Clarke Matinee at Melbourne Royal realised £165
Davis and Frost’s Victoria Loftus » o. (who visited
Australia and (N. Z.), after leaving here, proceeded
direct to Java, remaining there two months; then to
Manilla, across to Hong-kong, where they played a
month; afterwards to Singapore, Calcutta and Bombay.
The company were to sail on June 9th for Mauritius,
Laboem, Bourbon, and Cape Town, South Africa. At
Singapore the troupe appeared before the Governor
(Sir Frederick Weld), his wife and family, the Maha-
raj ih of Jahore, and a number of other distinguished
citizens and Malay chiefs. Double prices of admission
were paid. It was intended to produce “ The Pirates
of Penzance," but at the request of the Maharajah
“ Pinafore " was substituted, as that gentleman had
never witnessed it. The following was the cast
Sir Joseph. James Maas ; Capt. Corcoran, H. Newton •
Ralph Eackstraw, Victoria Loftus; Deadeye, T. fi!
Butler ; the Mariner (a new character, surely), Jeff de
AngeUs; Josephine, Sallie de Angelis; Buttercup
Minnie flEsmond; Hebe, Miss D. (Loftus Pollard’s
Juvenile Co. are re-appearing at the Theatre Royal.
Wellington, N.Z. They opened in “ Les Cloches." The
Queen’s, Dunedin, has been secured by the manage-
ment for the first week in October Billy Bent’s new
minstrel company opened to a good house at Invercar-
gill, on Sept. 12th The Auckland Opera House, to be
built by Mr. H. N. Abbott, will cost £7OOO. A tender
has been accepted for the work, which will commence at
once It is considered in Auckland that Fred. Mar-
shall’s Co., all-round, in “Betsy" and “Friends ’’ were
inferior to Lingard’s ... .Gary produces “Billee Taylor" at
Wellington, N.Z., at Christmas “Puck," of the
Dunedin Witness, says Hoskins is not married yet
It’s a mistake Dick Kohler lately had his show at
Riverton, N.Z., and did well. He re-appeared at
Invercargill during the Exhibition time .. .Again it is said
Mrs. Walter Hill is to visit Sydney. At Christchurch,
N.Z., the other week, she was the recipient of a compli-
mentary benefit. Crowded house Fred. Marshall and
the De Lias stock company opened at Napier, N.Z., on
17th Sept., in “Jeames.” Leake was to follow on the
24th Wo notice by some of the American papers,
that C. E. Blanchard andC. E. Locke have entered into
a co-partnership to bring that charming actress and
charming woman, Emilie Melville, to Australia again.
~E. W. Cary’s Opera Co. are again playing at
Christchurch, N.Z., to big business. The troupe were
to re open at Wellington, on the 26th Sept. In noticing
a performance of “ Les Cloches,” at Dunedin, “Puck”
says it was one of the funniest he ever saw. Morley
ought to have been in bed instead of on the stage ; and
Porter, a Christchurch amateur, cast for the Marquis
was seized with a fit of stage fright, which rendered
him absolutely incapable of uttering a single word of
dialogue. Everything and everybody was thrown into
confusion, but the climax was reached when in the second
act Money’s armour would not fit on. The piece was
only saved from downright failure by the Jidmirable
acting and spirited singing of Miss Leaf, who made a
capital Ssrpolette. Miss Murielle was a fair Germaine,
but her acting was indifferent. Wentworth was over-
weighted as Gaspord At Dunedin, while Louise
Pomeroy was rendering the epilogue in “As You Like
It, one old gentleman in the stalls got very excited,
and when she spoke of kissing those of the men whose
beards pleased her, he shouted out “ Hear, hear," so
earnestly ns to divert all attention to himself Dur-
ing the first seven nights of the Pomeroy season, at
Dunedin, £740 was taken. The company’s success shows
that clever people and new faces will make meney in
New Zealand Lydia Howards and Company
still doing N.Z. back blocks. The lessee of
the dressing-room of the Newcastle Theatre, during the
Opera season, is expected to suicide. Receipts—
threee coppers and a “Tommy Dodd” sixpence
The members of the Tamworth A D. Club are working
themselves up for a last struggle. They intend pro-
dicing some thrilling pieces (not “niggah") during the
next few weeks Professor Pepper lecturing at Mary-
borough, Q The Narandera AD, Club give their in-
augural performance on 7th Oct The Lynch bell-
ringers, at latest, were not drawing good houses at
Charters Towers Harry Simmons and Co. have been
treating the Bega public to “Our Boys." We have
Grocott’s Penny Mail, from which we notice that
Harry Stanley and the Russo-Tnrkish War diorama
were to the fore, on August 23, at Grahamstown, South
£ f "ca The “llmperial Agioscope,” with J. A
Patterson and Fanny Rogers, was at Gympie at latest
... Another season of Juvenile Opera is announced in
Melbourne. Once more the babies are to be trotted
ont at the expense of their health, to toddle their brief
hour upon the stage, and swell the coffers of the astute
persons who speculate in them.
* * •
Mies Haidee Heller, remembered here as the late
Robert Holler’s second-sight medium, is now book-
keeper for a London hotel, largely patronised by Ameri-
cans. Miss Heller is said to have become very stout
; A new play is being written in which the hero is
found lost and flying in a desert, chained to the bare
back of a bicycle. His deliverer proves to be a princess.
• Adelina and Carlotta Patti have not been on friendly
terms for a long time, and Amalia, another sister, who
is collecting alms for charities at the Madeleine, Paris
is also at variance with both Adelina and Carlotta.'
...... M’cbel Strogoff ' is the offspring of a novel pub-
hslied years since, and was given at the old Lyceum
Theatre, N.Y., under the elder Charles R. Thorne’s
management, five years ago. Since then a German
dramatization was played in Vienna. Subsequently a
French arrangement was produced, and is now running
in Paris, nnd also an version was presented in
London at a loss of £2OOO JH. Haverly, it is said
has secured the lease of the Baldwin Theatre, 'Frisco!
... . .The cause of thequarrel between Emily Soldeneand
the managers was that Emily in their opinion didn’t
wear enough petticoats on the stage. Emily should
really come at once to Sydney, where no one would ever
fall out with her on such a score. At one time a little
liberality in the direction referred to was deemed
attractive and nice, but then the dispenser should be
young and pretty, whereas, with a gross ungallantry,
her managers pronounce the fair Soldene “old, intoler-
ably dull, and, by her gesture, tone, and the leer on her
countenance, puffin* decency and modesty to flight.**
Godfrey, the famous bandmaster of the Coldstream
Guards, has become Insane, and has' been placed in an
asylum Despite the remonstrances of their mother,
Dion Boucioault taken his two daughters, Nina and
I atnee, from school in Germany, and brought them
out on the stage The N.Y. Mirror says Barry
Sullivan will visit America in October, and will prob-
ably make his first appearance in San Francisco
Dion Boucioault being unable to appear at Manchester
as announced, his place was taken as Conn in “The
Shaugbrnnn ” by bis eldest son, George, familiarly
known ns “Dot." The young man’s effort was a great
success Georgio Lingard will shortly become Mrs
George Homer, of Homer nnd Holly, specialty per-
formers L?on, cf Kelly and Leon, has been
engaged by Colonel Haverly for his American
Mastodons, at a salary of £5O per week Mr
Irving'r lease of the Lyceum, in London, will soon
expire, nn6 it is understood that it is his intention to
b ly no the freehold of t he theatre for a sum little short
of £120,000 B iker and F irron’s new play, by Robert
G Morris, is entitl d“ Up Salt River." J. K.
Emmet wns originally a song and dance man
Baroness W. d« Rothschild '• as just composed an air
entitled Hirondolles." It was performed
for the first ’imo by Millie Van Zandt with complete
success, nnd in memory of her achievement the Baroness
presented Mdlle. Van Zmdt. with six swallows in dia-
monds The B irouess’s mu-ic is, as may well be im-
agined, very popular in the musical profession. We
would be happv io troll one of her cadenzas on the
same terms The wife of Henry Irving, it is said, is
pressing in the London courts for a judicial separation
from her husband, and demands an adequate allowance,
anil it is stated that Mr. Irving has formally declared
the "profits'’ arising from the management of the
Lyceum Theatre at the modest sum of £2OO a year, the
balance of his undoubtedly large gains being, apparently,
set down as the estimated value of his personal
“salary. 1 ’ Val Vose, the ventriloquist, is in New
York Signor Unthano, an armless violinist, is the
current rage in Florence, Italy, and is thus spoken of
| by a Press correspondent:—"He plays the violin and
also the cornet between the acts of the opera, and
draws a large audience. We accidentally found our-
selves at his debut, having gone to hear a new tenor as
Manrioo in ‘ tl Trovatore,’ and I confess that even one
glimpse of his black-stockinged legs and bare toes
wielding the violin bow was more than I could enjoy.
But when he broke a string, and, to the delight of the
audience, took another string in his toes, and, thread-
ing the sma’l orifice with it, knotted it firmly and re-
tuned the violin, afterward wiping the perspiration
from his brow with a cambric handkerchief held grace-
fully between his first and second toes, I felt that a
side-show at a circus, with the living skeleton and the
Circassian girl, was a much more appropriate place for
him than an elegant opera house. Really, to enjoy his
music, one ought to be born blind, for it is a painful
sight to look upon.” Howorth’s Hibernica at latest
was at Stoneham, Mass Mrs. F. M. Bates recently
appeared at Chicago in “ A Celebrated Case.” Tilly
Andrews is now travelling with one of the many Ameri-
can “Tourist” Companies “Olivette" has passed
its 280th representation at the Strand, London Miss
Siddons, grand-daughter of the celebrated Mrs. Siddons,
made her dtbut as Juliet at the Park Theatre, Loudon,
but not with very promising results. She was
wretchedly supported Mr. T. W. Keene, actor and
leading man, intimates his intention shortly to profes-
sionally visit the Australian Colonies At latest, Fred
Thorne was at Margate, disengaged Cole’s circus was
completely wrecked by a local whirlwind at Tombstone,
A.T. Had the accident occurred an hour sooner, a
large number of people would have been killed
Catherine Lewis has been spending the Summer at City
Point, just outside Boston The body of Clive
Hersite, Rose’s brother, who suicided in the
rapids at Colorado, has been recovered About one-
half of the English profession appears to have hod
dealings with Lefroy, the Brighton murderer. One
gentleman makes a lot of capital out of certain letters
from the ingenuous’young assassin, but, like the other
actors who played cricket with him and invited him to
their dressing-rooms, seems very anxious to repudiate
all notion of friendship with him
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Seldom have theatrical matters been more lively
in Sydney than daring the past few months, yet seldom
has the state of the stage been less satisfactory. When
we review our own notices of performances for the
period indicated, we are reminded that as a general
thing it has fallen to us to give prom inence to comic
opera—so called—and either to criticise unfavourably,
or to omit mention of, the regular drama. Yet, look-
ing back—and even, unfortunately, looking forward—
there appears to have been, and to be, nothing else for
it. Our business has been to distinguish what was well
done from from what was not well done j to let the pub-
lic know with what degree of competence the various
performers discharged their functions, and to what
extent the different companies succeeded in producing
a harmonious ensemble.
* • »
The one bright exception to a prolonged pre-
dominence of comic operas has been the season at the
Gaiety, played by Mr. Wybert Reeve and this company.
There, one got dramas played by capable artists all
through—with perhaps one small exception. Well, we
duly recorded the fact at the time. But even those
performances had to be given at a small theatre, the
principal house having been monopolized for months by
the quasi-opera people. There was no way Out of nn-
pleasant comparisons. We prefer the legitimate drama
—well done. But the contrast between the Royal with
the splendid raise en scene, and the Queen’s—the last
refuge of the regular drama—with its dingy old scenery
and indifferent “ crowd," could not be disregarded.
On the one stage, all life and animation—some of the
best comedians in the colonies enrolled—on the
other, dinginess, dumps, and many duffers. There is
no blame attachable to the management. The public
is chiefly, if not solely, responsible. And not the
Australian public merely, for the same story is re
peated all over the world There is a craze for opera
bouffe and comic opera. Companies are formed and
equipped to perform such pieces with comparative ease
in the great centres of dramatic business. The air is
tremulous with the tunes and the gags. They come to
us over the Pacific and over the Indian Ocean. For
instance, everybody is impatient to see 11 Patience.”
Managers can't afford, nor can actors afford to
fight against this craze. Heaven knows what becomes
of the better class of stock actors. Some of them
apparently wander over the world disguised as stars, to
their own inevitable mortification and the debasement
of the ordinary butter-all critic, who writes his notice
to correspond with the “ pitch " of the advertised
** blow ”in the journal he belongs to. Others manage
to rake up some sort of voice, and join the so-called
opera-troupes. This is the best and most revengeful
course. The so-called opera is steadily helped towards
damnation by this intrusion of hoarse and shrieking
professionals, who come forward and “ sing ” in a sort
of grimacing dumb-show.
• •
But the bane of the whole business, and proba-
bly its root, too, is the leg display. The genuine
actress is displaced by any hussey who can and will
simulate nakedness with the greatest effrontery. In
the so-called “ Operas,” which keep possession of the
boards at present, it is not even necessary th»t the
“ young ladies” shall have voices. Theohoius—so far
as the feminine portion of it is concerned—get along
very comfortably by screaming in unison, supported
by the orchestra. Only they must be able to catch an
air, and not liable to catch a cold. Whenever there is a
demand there will be n supply. Girls who are not bad
will show their shape if only they are paid well enough,
and countenanced. There is nothing new in this. The
best-born maidens in England expose the upper parts of
their bodies even more freely than the chorus girls in
an opera exhibit the lower portions, when the former
are brought for exhibition on chance of winning a hus-
band (and income, understood). There is no remedy
that we know of for this state of affairs. We would
like to see the drama rehabilitated. Blinking its pre-
sent ugly condition, and publishing complimentary lies
about current performances, won’t do it, we are sure,
otherwise some of our daily contemporaries would
have remedied the evil long ago.
• • *
The prevailing furore for spectacular display of
female form is not confined to affairs dramatic. It enters
into other departments. Evidences of its existence and
potency may be seen in the windows of certain print-
shops in Sydney. This way of ministering to the
current eroticism began quietly. At first, it was done
under the shelter of Pine Art. Certain ultra-proper
idiots helped it along vastly by running amuck at what
were really Art pictures. None enjoyed the discomfiture
of these Holy-Joes more than we did. A picture such
as the “Chloe” which got a Sydney print-seller into the
police court, and carried him out again, is not indecent.
The nakedness is subordinated to the beauty, the
charm of pose, and the innocence of expression. A true
Art-nude is no more indecent than was Eye when her
Maker created her. Of course there are beasts who will
gloat over even true Art pictures. But the world need
not be denied things of beauty because there are
obscene persons among the crowd.
* * *
The inevitable result of the ridiculous inter-
ference and deserved failure of the unco-guid, when
trying to tilt against Art, has been to encourage traders
to go in for indecency without Art. Some of the photo-
graphs at present exposed in print-shop windows in
Sydney are simply indecent, and not works of art at
all. They ore " studies from the nude,” forsooth —
that is to say, they are photographs of actual women—
not idealizations, but women—probably of bad char-
acter, striking attitudes more or less ungainly, and
assuming poses of modesty which consist in veiling
their charms with an Ashantee hammock, or a strip of
mosquito net. These are not the worst, either. Art is
idealization. Among these photographs realism is
carried into sickening detail. Passers-bv ore mode,
nolens volene, to assist at the toilettes of ugly and ill-
conditioned women in every stage of the disrobing
process. Now, a woman disrobing is not indecent, but
a woman deliberately posing to be photographed in
that condition is distinctly and offensively indecent, and
the resultant picture can by no stretch of ingenuity be
covered by the aegis of the Fine Arts. We are not
quite clear what the best remedy for this condition of
affairs may be, hut we are perfectly sure that maintain-
ing silence and shamming to be unconscious that any-
thing of the kind is in existence, is no remedy; and
till we discover a better way, we are clear for trying in
such cases the efficacy of—as now—speaking straight
out.
** * *
The late Mr. James Booty, when in the flesh,
had the misfortune to lack popularity, and therefore it
was not surprising to find that, on the occasion of his
benefit on Friday last, the audience assembled at the
Queen’s Theatre was neither very numerous nor very
enthusiastic. It pains us, in fact, to have to state
that, despite the Herculean efforts of Mr. Richmond
Thatcher, an old schoolmate of the deceased, who really
took more trouble to get a good roll-up than most
people take to get to heaven, Melancholy appeared to
have marked the occasion for her own. There was a
wretched house, the stalls and pit being only dotted
with the unpatrioian, while the company in the circle
may be best described in the words of a talented
low comedian present on the occasion, as being " rather
a multy lot.”
* # #
The performance commenced with the trial
scene from the “ Merchant of Venice ” in which Mr.
J. Dewhurst enacted the part of Shylock, and Miss
Marian Willis that of Portiu. When Mr. Dewhurst
made his d6b&t here' in “ Hamlet,” which is a test
tragedy part, we took occasion to give our readers our
plain unvarnished opinion of that gentleman’s capa-
bilities as a star performer, and we may mention that
our critique gave great offence to Mr. Dewhurst
and his entourage. We are sorry for this, of course,
because wo understand that socially Mr. D. is a very
charming fellow. However, as we had to criticise him
from a histrionic point of view, we deemed it our duty
to write of his performance as wo did. And, now that
the end of Mr, Dewhnrst’s engagement has arrived, we
have to state that the public have thoroughly endorsed
our opinion. Journalistically we have stood alone in our
estimate of Mr. Dewhurst’s acting, since our contem-
poraries have lavished upon that gentleman, at regular
intervals, an amount of oleamargarine sufficient to test
the powers of the most capricious swallow. With all
this, however, Mr. Dewhurst has not been a success,
and the treasury of the theatre has accordingly suffered.
We wish Mr. Dewhurst be* ter luck in Brisbane, but we
feelingly counsel him not to make his first appearance
there as the melancholy Dane.
* • *
Mr. Dewhnrst’s “ Shylock” is a very even per-
formance—rather too even, perhaps, if the truth be
known. There is no depth in his version of the part,
and very little originality. His appearance, however,
was very fine. Miss Willis’s Portia was a delightful
little study—full of intelligent touches, and her elocu-
tion exhibited great care and finish. Mr. Richmond
Thatcher’s prologue was the next item, and the bills
announced that Mr. James Rainford would recite it.
Mr. Rainford, however, came on and read the address
from the MS. —a mode of delivery which by no means
added to the beauty of Richmond’s poem. The pro-
logue is a very good composition, and would have been
better had not Dick allowed his imagination to run away
with him so often. This quatrain, for instance, tested
to the utmost the power of facial command of some of
those present who had been intimate with the de-
ceased :
" Poor Booty I apt enough a phrase to-night
For him who shone erstwhile with brilliant light
Which burnt refulgent, till in dismal gloom
It has its end in darkness and the tomb.
The last line is very beautiful indeed, and if the piece
throughout is not as nobly written, it is—what is a
great deal better—nobly meant.
* « «
The prologue was followed by the Lvtton Ama-
teur Dramatic Club, who made their dMt in “ Time
and the Hour.” They were assisted by Mesdames
Melville, Medway, and Nellie Montague, of the Theatre
staff, and these ladies worked very hard to pull them
through. Sir Phillip Deverill was played by some-
thing in a very long coat and very broad trousers,
whose name appeared on the programme as Merpal,
and he was very funny indeed in the pathetic parts.
He, however, lit too many cigars to be thoroughly
realistic. Mr. A. Henry made a fair Franklin, and Mr.
Dawson a rather feeble Charles. Mr. Frank Merton
struggled through the part of George Aylmer with an
effort, and Mr. Sam Corner exhibited much confidence
and hat-brim as Montgomery Brown. The piece was
produced on a scale of great splendour, and real sherry
from Larry’s Andalusian caves was quaffed at dessert.
Collectively the Lyttons are a good club, and did well.
When they learn to wear shorter coats, and not put
their legs so far through their trousers, they will do
better.
** * *
It would appear that “ Madame Favart ” has,
so far, drawn better than “ Olivette.” We can well
understand this, since the music is, on the whole,
brighter, and the action of the piece more lively. Our
critique upon the opera now playing at the Royal has
called forth—as, indeed, our notices usually do —a num-
ber of communication o , more or less amusing, from
gentlemen who apparently live but for the smiles of the
Musgrovian houris. Here’s a jingle for them: —
One correspondent, who is evidently suffering
from a very severe attack of that charming young lady,
Miss Nellie Stewart, rates us roundly for not seeing in
her representation of Suzanne the glories that he did.
To show, however, that he is not without a critical
mind, he writes the following anent the giddy old
Marquis:—“lf our old and popular friend, Mr. Har-
wood, who is always good, will not mind taking a hint,
let me suggest that he use a little less expression when
saying, * luscious, delicious creature.’ “ Now, dear
Duke, there’s a chance for yon to improve yourself by
taking the advice of an amateur critic. We don’t par-
ticularly counsel you to take his tip, but you can if you
like. We expect, if the truth be known, the mere fact
of anyone except himself calling one of Mr. Musgrove’s
houris a “delicious creature,” jars upon his (esthetic
soul.
♦ « •
The piece goes now with immense spirit, and if
Fred, could only get his thorax fixed, there would be
little, if any, fault to find. Mr. Mervin's Tyrolean song
in the third act fetches the audience to the extent of a
double encore nightly—which shows how popular fal-
setto singing is—with the million. Mr. Harwood has in-
fused so many touches into his part since the first
night, that it is now quite a polished study ; and Miss
Laverne, as we remarked last week, has come to the
fore with a vengeance. •• Madame Favart,” will, we
understand, be played until the end of the season.
“ Tambour-Major ” would have drawn big business for
the concluding fortnight of the company’s stay heie,
but it appears that the dresses are all packed ready to
send to Melbourne.
** * *
“The Mendelssohn Quintette” appear at the
Masonic Hall on Saturday night. They are not “the
tuneful nine," but the tuneful five. Bayless is the
entrepreneur and Duncan Maocnllum is the cnl rep re.
neur’a secretary. We are glad to see Duncan
to the fore again ; because when he is to the fore he is
also on the door. And those Napoleonic moustaches
act like a magnet on the public.
** * *
“ Mother-in-Law ” will make her bow to the
Sydney public on the 7th instant, Saturday week, at the
Gaiety. We have already mentioned this comedy
several times. We are glad to find that the little
“muss” between Bayless and Johnny has been satis,
faotorily settled, for when good managers fall out, as a
rule, bad agents creep in. Under the present manage-
ment, Mr. Bayless leases the theatre from Mr. Solomon,
and runs it on his own account; and this, we consider,
taking Mr. B’s. great theatrical experience into con-
suleration, is the very best way in which the business
could have been settled. Mr. Bayless begins his “ sole
lessesship" with a big thing—"Mother-in-Law,” being,
if we are to believe the English press, one of the fun-
niest pieces ever written. The utmost efforts are being
made by the management to get together a good crowd:
and we understand that Mr. Dampier and Miss Adere
will have, for certain, to support them—Mr. and Mrs.
Emmett (Little Nell), Mrs. Marion Stammers, and other
favourites. The Theatre is being greatly improved, and
altogether we have no doubt whatever that Mr. Dam.
pier’s season will be both pecuniarily and artistically a
complete success.
** * *
On Saturday night, Mr. Walter Eeynolds will
appear at the Queen's Theatre, in his own play, “ Tried
and True”—a drama abounding in incident and with a
very sharp and telling dialogue. This piece, unless we
are very far out in our reckoning, will draw more money
to the little house in Tork-street than anything that
has been done there since Pomeroy played Eosalind
with a Broadway drawl. Mr. Eeynolds has exercised
great care in casting his piece, and as the present
Queen’s company is infinitely better adapted for the
interpretation of melodrama than of Shakesperian
tragedy, we expect to see "Tried and True” run as
smoothly on* Saturday at the Queen’s as John Davies’s
last temperance orationjat the " breaking up” in Crown-
street. To say that we wish Walter success would be
to but feebly interpret our feelings. That he may
clutch the wealth of Golconda is our fervent prayer!
» • «
Mr. Eeynolds, we understand, has taken the
Theatre Royal, Hobart, for three months, commencing
Boxing-niffht. He plays in his own pieces for the first
fortnight, after which he is followed by Dewhurst; and
then, if dates will allow of it, Dampier will scintillate.
** * *
Some of the youug ladies who have for months
drawn so steady an attendance of young men with
large bumps at the back of their heads, to the Theatre
Eoyal, have exceedingly large feet. Viewed through
any glass, except a glass of fizz, these are obviously
twelve inches long, and, like some of the jokes in
Madame Favart,” as broad as they are long. The
Eoyal is just the place for gentlemen who are on the
look-out for wives that are all sole.
** * *
A letter from the genial editor of Queensland
Punch tells us that, at Brisbane, " Diplomacy ” was a
failure. To us, this is unaccountable. We understand,
however, that what go down best in Brisbane are one-
horse nigger troupes, with corner-men who sing
* Nelly Bly," and come out with old circus wheezes.
“ The Money Spinner,” a London comedy, by Pinero,
has since been produced (for the first time in Australia)
with better results.
* * #
The news of “ Diplomacy ” having been a frost
will possibly interest Mr. Dewhurst. There can be, so
far as the nature of the performance is concerned, no
higher class show than that given by him ; so should
he not make his pile, he can console himself with the
reflection that he has not fared worse than one of the
mest brilliant combinations most certainly in
comedy—yet produced in Australia. We recommend
the dancing-dogs, and the "Stilts,” and the Mario-
nettes to start for Brisbane without delay.
** * *
We are sorry to have to record that the Kelly and
Leou Company,recently performing at the O pera House,
have gone bung. Mr. Kelly, we understand, is to join
Musgrove’s Company, to play Mr. Mervin's parts—
Fred, unable to safely continue his arduous role in
“ Madame Favart,” having wisely determined to take
a complete rest. What the other members of the com-
pany intend to do, we have no idea, but we ven«
tnreto suggest that, as we have had so many bene-
fits lately for the dead, it would be a kind of novelty to
have one for the living.
** * *
D’Aroy Eead’s Ghost at the Victoria Hall has
been bobbing up serenely all the week, and the bur-
lesque powers and stalwart limbs of the old gentleman
who plays the King in “ Beauty and the Beast ” have
been muohiadmired. The Beast is also a great favourite.
He is the mildest-mannered monstrosity that ever cut a
stick of tobacco, or drank a glass of lager. We respect,
but cannot fear him. Little Annie’s dancing is charm-
ing, but we want to hear her “ dig down and speak a
piece.” Beauty is lovely, and, when she chalks her
arms a little more, will be perfect. The mechanical
effects are splendid, and the music was all new—last
century. Joking apart, the show is very funny—in a
way. Go and see it.
** * *
In New Zealand things theatrical are beaming
Pomeroy and company are getting column notices (solid
minion, if yon please) out of the Dunedin rags, and biz
is good, Marshall closed in Auckland on the 14th Sep-
tember, having never played to good business. Ned
says in that town they want two melo-dramas, a five-
act tragedy, a saveloy roll, and a dog-fight for a shil-
ling. Marshall left for Melbourne to open the Princess’s,
but returns in May next under engagement to DeLias.
So evidently Fred hasn’t had enough of it yet.
** * *
The Lyons “ Pleasure Party ’ ’ seem to be
having a bad time. With the exception of Miss Amy
Horton, who sings and dances charmingly, the whole
lot get particular fits from the New Zealand press.
Parlato and Maclean especially drop in for gruel every-
where, and Nina Tulloch and Emily Fox get flattened
out with brevier periodically. Still Lyons wears his
shirt collar as low as usual, and his diamonds are as
big as of yore—so whoever sufferers in the manage-
ment, it’s apparently not Harry.
** * *
The Turners did well at Newcastle. The miners’
rolled up in hundreds; so, notwithstanding that the
gifted Annis and her consort made money, they may
be said to have had a coal reception.
** * *
Kitts is going away with Dewhurst to Brisbane.
Jim will come in handy for “ shaking the curtain,"
** * *
Bertie Willison was presented at Launceston,
lately, with a "gold ring set with a garnet." And he
took it. If he had had any spirit, he would have de-
clined the feeble presentation with the dignified words
—" Your Garnet won’t Walch."
* • *
Eioe, for whom Bertie was agent, has gone to
India via the Cape. He is pretty sure to curry favour
there. We recommend the Calcutta managers to be on
the qui vive. It is as well, you know, to worship the
Eicemg sun.
** * *
To-morrow (Friday), Mr. W. Hallewell, the
splendid basso, is engaged to sing in " The Messiah” at
the School of Arts, the affair being under the auspices
of Mr. Pope. Mr. Hmchy will also warble, and Miss
Shipway and a lady amateur will likewise discourse
sweet vocal music. Mr. Sydney Moss will conduct, and
the hall will doubtless be thronged with “ unuttera-
bles.”
** * *
From a chatty letter which we have received
from Arthur Vivian, who is now travelling with
Stetson’s company through the States, we extract the
following items, which, having reference to artists all
well known in Australia, will prove to be of great in-
terest to the " perfeeh—" Charley Verner, inown in
Sydney as a comic vocalist, is in New York, his present
line of biz. being ‘ manager for an Irish Comedian.’—
Mrs. F. M. Bates is playing juvenile lead in a Chicago
Oh, every night, clean-shaved and trim
You see them trooping in;
A few are fat, but most are slim
Yet ail have the same grin.
And all do their moustaches twirl
(’Twould send you into roars !)
And each gloats only on the gyurl
His “little soul** adores.
On cabs their " good old greed ’’ they shout.
This captious little clique.
To see them take the ladies out
Oh, it would make you shriek I
To gaze on “ Tambour *’ and on “ Bones ’’
Up in the circle—well.
It is a sight, we bet, would make
A Turkish dervish yell.
And yet these laokhrains cannot see,
Who nightly sit and stare.
How sick those weary girls must be
To always see them there.
To gaze upon—oh, ev’ry night.
This piteous lack of mind.
Would make one wish to save the sight,
By—hang it I—going1 —going blind.


theatre, supporting James O’Neil.—Kate Foley came
over in the City of Sydney with ns, and went to
Chicago. —Frederic De Belleville (formerly of Gamer’s
company), is at the Union Square Theatre, New York,
playing heavies—Luscombe Searrell is conducting the
orchestra at ** The Tivoli,” a 25 cent. Opera House in
gan Francisco. —Billy Sweatnam arrived by last
steamer, and has been showing for Billy Gunnerson’s,
and other members of Haverly’s Minstrels, benefit.—
George Darrell made some money at the Baldwin
Theatre with his •* Back from the Grave.” He is
now|in the Eastern States engaged as leading man with
Fanny Davenport, a very clever actress.—Baker and
Farron lately played a two weeks’ engagement in town
to very shy business—accounted for by the fact
that Haverly’s big Minstrel show was playing in the
Bush-street Theatre directly opposite. They are both
looking well —Hayman and Leon also went in the
same direction, Lillian (Tilly) Andrews, will
shortly go East to join * The Tourists’ a, sort of
“Troubadour” entertainment. She has become very
stout. —Actors here hire nearly all their wardrobe from
costumiers. —Edwin Browne, ‘ the prairie actor,’
arrived from Sydney in a schooner, 75 days out. He
said ‘thetime passed like a dream 1’ ”
** * *
The following letter was written by Maria Wal-
len, one of Pollard’s (N Z ) “Buttercup kids," to Mr.
Eathbone, the editor of the Auckland Observed, on
her declining a locket with which he platonically pre-
sented her —“Auckland, August 23, 1881. Sir, —I
have no desire to accept a present from a man who
has tried to do the Company so much harm to which
I belong, and I will therefore return it, trusting yon
may receive it.—M. Wallen.” It afterwards (when
Maria wanted the locket and got it) transpired that
Pollard wrote the letter himself; and since this fact
has become known, all the Auckland people with
children are asking the “old man” to start a night
school.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
It seems that the versatile variola has loner been
known to our blacks by the name of gal-gal. Truly
there’s a “ gal" at the bottom of every trouble. And
yet Sir’Enry would like to see them in the ’Ouse, to
mix things worse than even our masculine members can.
This proves that there is something in a name after
all, because what man wouldn’t prefer owning a gal to
having the small-pox ? We pause one week for a post-
age-paid reply.
* * *
When poor Marcus Clarke was alive he couldn’t
borrow money to buy the bung-hole of a cod-liver oil
cask without paying his " sheventy-flve per shent ’’ for
it. Now that he’s dead, however, he can raise a thousand
pounds, and in the fulness of time will no doubt receive
a 500 guinea tombstone. This is a grand country for
literary men, indeed, —but they have to die before they
can enjoy its favours. Horace probably had this in his
mind’s eye when he sang that, “ Death is the gate of
life: ” though, by the way, he had no cause to howl, as
he lived in what we facetiously term the dark, be-
nighted Pagan age. There’s a splendid opening for a
few Pagans out here at present.
* • •
Sir Samuel Wilson has succeeded Lord Beacons-
field at Hughenden. “ Ichabod I—now is the glory
departed from Israel.” Could not Chrysos be content
with any other grand property than Hughenden Manor ?
Did no English nobleman want a country seat ? Or did
the wool and mutton merchant outbid them all with
his millions ? Lord Beaconsfleld was a man of high
lineage, courtly and intellectual. Money was no god of
his, and he sought not his title. If men can think in
the grave, what will he think of the short squat man,
with the flame-coloured whiskers, who comes unoouthly
flaunting his wealth, and acquires noble ancestors by
purchase ? Australia waits to see what her represen-
tative man will do now he has got an ancestral estate.
Of its park lands, he could make a nice run for the stud
flock from Ercildoun or Yanko. To stock its streams,
ho could bring back some colonial salmon of his own
breeding. In its galleries, he could hang the costliest
canvas of the old masters, bought by the square yard.
And its corridors he could fill with exquisite statues,
selected hy himself —after carefully inquiring in each
case, ** how much does it weigh P” It’s a great thing
to be Prime Minister of England, but it requires
genius; and there are other ways of becoming great.
For instance, you can “acquire” 640 acre blocks, or sell
"shepherd’s tea’’ and “ration sugar” to shearers at
300 per cent, profit—then you will become rich; yon can
give £30,000 to a university, and you will probably re-
ceive a title, as well as be a patron of learning. In your
spare time you can breed salmon at a cost of more than
their weight in gold, and the newspapers will publish
how you benefit the colony, but they won't tell how you
work your station hands eleven hours a day for half-a-
crowD.’ You will have wealth enough to buy the best
woolled sheep in the world, and exhibit, though you
cannot breed them. You can entertain princes with
regal magnificence and make a friend of their royal
mother; and you can surround your name with historic
sentiment and aristocratic association by leasing a
Prime Minister’s home. Two great men : but what a
difference!
♦ * *
A bard, who calls himself “ Motus,” has sent
ns a poem headed “ The Charge of the Motors,” which
we have much pleasure in printing for the edification
of our readers. Here we go, then: —
“ Motors to right us.
Motors all left us,
Motors to puff ns.
With dust to choke us.
Motors blinding with steam, '
To make old ladies scream,
Motors I ah ! mote us I
Motors ? don’t quote us.”
He says that this is “spontaneous,” but we hardly
think this can be, since every line bears npon its face a
polish which to any ordinary mind would entail long
hoars of continuous labour. “ Motus ” has also a deb-
ate sense of hr monr; but he is a deep dog withal,
rou know his jokes are there, but you can’t pick them
out at the first dive. We like this kind of verse, be-
it bears the impress of undoubted originality,
don’t want, however, to monopolise the whole of
V •“totus’s” lyrical efforts. We would not be so selfish
is that—especially as the winter weather is just over,
w * *
• to this. It is from the pen of one “ Ada,”
in the Christchurch Liberty :—“ At the opera during
me week I have noticed: —Miss L nin pink; Miss
8 » Pmk and black ; Miss C r, pink dress, blue
Dowers > Miss B y, white dress, silver flowers ; Miss
S, wore a white satin and tarlatan; the Misses
irr-L white and pale blue clouds j Mrs J. F. G k,
“5r * ace collarette.” And then, lower down :
IpmT- 88 J 1 ! — 11 t°°hs lady-like in her black silk sleeve-
rTo» 1 j® 4 ’ with handsome applique work ; Miss T—e’s
ew cardinal plush hat is very nice; Miss E n looked
wen in navy-blue costume ; Miss C n
8 new irridescent passimenterie (sic.) and steel
mining. We wonder whose cook “Ada” is ?|
* * *
bn?? 0 ,^- mer icans delight to honour those who
* m ' therefore, Alfred will only take over to
Nrw= ,thur a copy of last Saturday’s Evening
containing his portrait, we have no doubt what-
i tllo President would cause Alfred to im-
*nately become connected with his club.
* * #
Arant Be ® b y the Whitehall Review that the
camfiiu ’ tbe Vntican organ, published in Borne, has
in* wf KOn - e hung. This news is the more astound-
VftHnf cauße ln a recent number of the Distress (also a
we iwi TiP?’ Published at Clarence-st., Sydney),
the laH . • arran gements had been made between
Ono Journal and the Aurora, to mutually assist
on Thus the Archbishop was to do a leader
the iW The meretricious influence of Orangeism on
rag ■ Principles of Eingbarking,” for the Pope’s
Serir.f:T. return for which Leo would scratch off a de-
V. in ® ,;*etch of the Corso at Carnival time for Dr.
round and i. manner. Dean Leonard was to skirmish
cine ado » ra *® hi the sewing-machine and patent medi-
•ecnreaii t r> e DEOEA * while Cardinal Nina was to
redam..,* 6 Homan vestment quotations and candle
hasn’t the Distress. Evidently, however, it
* shonv an( t the dream is over. Though this is
> our sorrowing hearts are not utterly broken;
for while the Roman Aurora Borealis is extinguished,
the Sydney Bore-aul-of-us still flashes the light of its
splendonr upon the world. Friday after Friday, with
pendulum-like regularity, it appears, the sheet corus-
cating with gems of wit, and gleams of fancy. What
if the leaders are a yard long, and the Cork communica-
tion contains the matter of two dime novels! What
if the notes by a “ Bohemian ” are suggestive of the
sexton, and the London letter has a flavour of St.
John’s College I Show us the sordid caviller who would
take exception to these trifles, which merely form a
solid setting for the sparkling literary gems which
odorn the advertisement columns I No I L’Aurore est
mart—vive L'Expresse. And now we will bespeak I’eaw
oSnite after the next gentleman.
* # #
“ Mr. Buchanan said that he himself had drunk
as much as most men—(laughter)—but he never got
drunk. (Laughter.)"
What! Never tight, when thou dost rave,
Belch forth inane abuse!
How rash thou art to say this, Dave 5 —
It was a—well— eaxuse.
• * »
Scene: Refreshment-room at the House. First
hon. member (bucolic): “ Parkshs’s Lishessin Bill
(htc)’peech legislasbin varshly {hie) ben’flt comfhtc).
munity.” Second hon. member (commercial): “Shortly.
Speshly 'mongst lower (hie) classes. Always drnnk
(hie) lower classes.”
• * •
“ Superintendent Carroll is suspended,” said a
friend of one of the released Quarantine patients to
him, as he landed. " You don’t say so,” was the
musing reply; “ I hardly thought they’d go so far as
that.” This wants careful reading.
* • •
“ A Tasmanian hospital scandal has occurred
at Hobart. The services for the dead were read over an
empty coffin, the body having been secretly delivered
to the medical students for dissection.” We are
honester than that in Sydney. There is never any
trouble about the body—whatever there may be about
the coffin. By the way, we don’t think that when the
hungry old gentleman in the story found he had been
saying grace over an empty dish-cover he could
have been more disgusted than was the parson who
“ read the service for the dead ” as aforesaid.
* * *
A lady correspondent of the S. A. Mail says;—
“ It may interest my lady readers to know what kind of
boots are worn by her Majesty of England. The Queen
adheres to the old-fashioned ones, made with low flat
heels and elastic sides.” Does she, indeed P Now, we
wonder whether the old lady perpetually sports the
order of the garter, and what kind of “insertion”
but we’ll stop there. There’s nothing after all much mys-
terious about kings and queens now-adays. They all
seem fond of beef and beer; all the men frightfully
immoral, and all the women fearfully mean. Wo
wouldn’t care much about being a king in these degene-
rate days, when you’re not even allowed to flash your
crown and sceptre. Why, old Vicky never saw her
regalia except on the day of her coronation, and then
she took the globe for the cistern-ball, and requested
Lord Melbourne to break a lump of cannel with the
sceptre. Only look, in the days of King John. Before
he lost all his things in the Wash, he was something
like a king. Newton Griffiths as royal Claudius, at the
Queen’s, is a fool to that old fellow. While he had the
things, he used to sport them, and no mistake. There
you see him in the pictures, togged up to the eyes in
jewels and ermine. Yet, in these mean davs, our
Queen, who has about twenty times the “ greed ” that
old Jack had, goes about in cook's boots, and does her
railway travelling on the “never.” But we, who are
nothings at all (excepting in intellectual brilliancy!!)
have to pay Is. 6d. return to Burwood, and the man
looks glum at leaving our “ long quartered town mades”
unless! he clutches the twelve-and-six. There is no
romance, monarchical or otherwise, in these dull times.
We’re full of Queen Victoria and torpidity. Let’s have
back Queen Mary and merriment.
* * *
The most puzzled youth in the community is in
the Lands Office. He is to run 100 yards at the S.A.A.
Club Sports on the 1st, walk one mile at the H.H.A.
Club Sports on the 8th, pull in the Junior Scullers’
race on the 8th, and row in the Junior Four event
on the 15th. He has a £5 book on the Melbourne
Derby and Cup, has been appointed secretary of a new
cricket club, and is going to be married in a month.
When he starts for homo he d lesn’t know whether to
go for a run, a walk, or a pull—to visit Tatter,
sail’s to ascertain the latest odds — call on nis
brother secretaries to arrange matches for the forth-
coming season—cruise around and price cheap fur-
niture, or go and see the “girl.” Sleep has
fled from his pillow, and his days are spent in despon-
dency. When he receives a letter, he doesn’t know
whether it’s about matches or brokeu assignations,
scratched wagers or moonlight runs. To crown all, he
has just learnt that he’s down for another £25 on next
year’s Estimates, and he has laid Darebin and the
Duchess twice.
# # #
Says Mr. Daniel Allen, in the Witness, of the
editor of the Presbyterian : —“I have enjoyed the
friendship of many Presbyterian ministers during these
past thirty years, and do still very highly esteem both
them and their Church; but I must isolate this editor
from them, and hold him in too much contempt to read
another line from his pen.”
Why is there a general aversion to front seats
in a prayer-meeting ?” asks the Witness. Because
the apostle who holds forth has generally breakfasted
on steak and onions, says The Bulletin.
* * *
What has become of the Sydney Funeral Re-
form Association ? Has it gone the way of Buchanan’s
bills, to be heard of, alas 1 no more ? We met a funeral
the other day, and we have had no appetite for our
bread and dripping since. First came the hearse, like
a black box mangle on wheels, driven by a sinister-
looking gentleman with a wandering eye, whose attire
was an ingenious compound of the circus ring-master
and the sexton. This lugubrious vehicle was drawn by
two sorry-looking steeds, which hung their heads as if
they were ashamed of the part they took in the moving
mockery, as well they might be. Surmounting the
hearse was a small forest of rusty, frowsy feathers,
which jerked and nodded at every jolt of the vehicle
in a manner ludicrous to behold; while, walking on
either side of the coffin car, was a melancholy personage
who looked like a waiter out of place. Two •* mourning
coaches," in which were placed layers of the deceased’s
relatives, came next, and they in their turn were fol-
lowed by a dozen cabs occupied by mourners, who be-
guiled the tedium of the drive by smoking cigars, and
airly discussing the news of the day. The aspect of
the whole cortege, with its seedy vehicles, bulbous-
nosed attendants, and general air of tawdry, yet frowsy
finery, its parti-coloured horses, and its general mas-
querade of grief, would have been ludicrous had it not
been painful. Yet this is the way civilization decrees
that we are to be buried! As if death were not in
itself ghastly enough, without surrounding it with
theatrical trumpery and mimicry of woe! When
Charles Dickens was alive, he essayed, in “ Great
Expectations,” to deal burlesque burial a crushing
blow, by describing the funeral of Mrs Gargery ; but
even his powerful pen could do at that time —so strong
was the mute mania imbued in the public mind—little
towards remedying the evil. Cannot, now, some greater
reformer than Dickens —some man who lives in our
own day and amongst ns—legislate for at least decency
in the burial of the dead ?
* * *
A short time since there was a Borneo baboon
at the Museum—but we wish at once to state that,
though avery intelligent animal, he was not on the staff
of the institution. Confined to a cage (through
jealousy, as he himself averred) day and night, his soul
rebelled, and he broke out. After having critically
surveyed the various curiosities on exhibition in that
exciting place of amusement, he swallowed a pound or
two of dried beetles, drank all the spirits of wine out
of the cobra’s bottle, then perched himself on top of
the whale to allow his digestion full swing. On being
“spotted” by the employes, various but vain attempts
were made to dislodge him, and eluding their vigilance,
he made a move into the Grammar School, where, in
an incredibly short space of "time, he sampled the
lunches of 45 scholars, besides devouring half a volume
of Zola’s Nana (belonging to one of the professors),
which subsequently disagreed with him. He then
bounded up College-street, and climbing in through
the window of a well-known doctor’s consulting-room,
took a lively interest in the patients, until he was
induced to leave by the aid of remonstrance and the
poker. Making then straight for Woolloomooloo, he
avoided pursuit for a while, but was eventually tracked
to the shop of a stationer, in whoso back parlour (the
man having been scared away) he was discovered busily
engaged in writing an article for the Daily Telegraph.
A little later the animal was presented to Sir John
Robertson, and there is now a rumour to the effect that
he will be offered the vacancy at the Crown-street
school. There is also a rumour that before going to the
stationer’s he, about three o’clock, looked in at the
1 house of a prominent Customs official, whoso wife, on
seeing him march up the passage, exclaimed, “ Good-
ness, gracious, Reginald I how is it you are home so
early f ”
* * #
Farewell! a long farewell to all our greatness !
Bring round the hearse I Our Carooar Mary is—well
not exactly untrue, but a lover of pork I—“ vulgah
pork!” Says Mary;—“The pig ranks high in our
affections when transmuted into ham or flitch.” Grande
Dio I Fancy our heart's adored going for a " sucker,”
stuffed with the savoury sage and the repulsive onion I
Quick, slave I the poisoned dagger; the slip-knot rope—
the anything 1 Further on our enslaver writes :—“But
with the vital spark and unfettered liberty he
(the pig) is a most objectionable quadruped, and
stirs up the worst instincts of our imperfect na-
ture.” Now, Mary, that’s just where you make the
mistake. He doesn’ stir us up a cent, but ho
quite frequently dumps ns down flat. If you have
ever strolled along by the banks of a lagoon,
with your hands under the tails of your coat,
your eyes gazing on the azure sky above, and your soul
steeped in a dreamy poetic flow, and if just at that
moment you suddenly found that the muddy ground
flew up and banged all your back hair off, whilst your
now balmorals made threatening gestures at the noon-
day sun—and if at the same instant you also found a
pugnacious-looking pig emerging from the dtbris—wo
are quite certain you would cease to play " Beauty *’ to
this bristly “ Beast,” and that you would favour «s
with n little of those affections which you now lavish
on a flitch of bacon. History repeats itself once more.
A pig killed Adonis, and now off we go to the boneyard,
ripped and stripped by the self-same triohinosic mon-
ster. Adieu I Mary. We admit suicide. No cards.
* * •
In last Saturday’s Evening News there ap-
peared a “portrait” of Elias Laycock, the sculler,
which attracted a good deal of attention. Shortly
after the paper was published, knots of people were
observed to assemble m Pitt-street, and look curiously
up at the office, while other more persevering indivi-
duals trooped continually into the building to enquire if
the editor were getting over it, and the exact hour at
which the artist was taken ill. The picture in question
is before us as we write this, and we have no hesitation
in stating that it is, in its way, unique. From its ap-
pearance it would seem to have been drawn with a fire-
stick on a coffin-lid, and engraved by a blackfellow
with a chunk of road-metal. It represents an individual
upon whose every feature is stamped the direst ferocity.
His eyes are suggestive of murder in the first degree.
His nose is typical of burglary under atrocious circum-
stances, while petty larceny lingers about the corners
of his month. When Laycock saw it, ho said to a
friend, “Do you consider I’m like that P” “Yes,”
replied the friend, who was a bit of a wag, “Ido." j
“ Then go and borrow a poleaxe,” returned the sculler,
“ I’ve no longer any wish to live."
• ♦ •
A few days ago, a case of alleged small-pox
having been reported in the suburbs, in the neighbour-
hood of Cook’s Eiver, the place was quarantined forth-
with, and the master of the house (a diminutive cottage)
is requested to furnish the constable with a list of
things he requires for himself and his children. After
several hours of intense study, and the expenditure of
a bottle of ink, a piece of cardboard upon which were
inscribed in large text the following items, was handed
to the constable for transmission to the Colonial Trea-
surer:—“ Pipes, porter, tea, tobacco, square gin, flour,
bottled beer, potatoes, dark brandy, and firewood." On
these being supplied, another despatch was immediately
indited, the subject matter of which proved to be:—
Bottled fruit, green peas, a clock, potatoes. The Bulle-
tin, lollies. Old Tom, hot rolls, and ginger-beer." When
these articles also arrived, several of the neighbours
began to talk of feeling unwell—so we should not be
surprised were we to hear, at no distant date, of several
"fresh cases" being reported in the vicinity of St.
Peter’s.
* * m
Laycock lately presented Mr. Simmons, man-
ager for Spiers and Pond, with a pair of Boss cockatoos.
If Elias wants to give us anything, we invite him to
present us with a little aquatic logic.
• • *
“ Mr. W. H. Hatton, the erudite editor of the
Bradford Times," says Society, “ will introduce into
his journal a novelty at an early date in the form of a
Poetical London Letter. Mr- F. W. Broughton, author
of ‘L ight and Shade,’ ' Withered Leaves,’ and other
popular dramatic nieces, will be the writer of the
rhymed epistle." We have a good mind to go in for
something of the kind ourselves, only wo can’t quite
decide upon" the bard at whom we ought to throw the
handkerchief. If we wanted an opening address for a
theatre, we should, of course, pour our thousands into
Lewis Scott’s lap; but this kind of thing, would, we
feel, be beneath him. M’Carroll should bo suetable,
but his style is a little too Glebe to quite fit in with the
narrative form of poetry. Altogether, we are rather at
a loss. Will the ohdtelaine of “ Prospect Hall" fly to
aid us P Or let her “ breathe but the word," and we
fly to Ada. We wonder, by the way, what Alfred will
take for his bards—by the load ?
# # #
An intimation went forth the other day that
bewitching Mary, the belle of Carcoar, was about to
start another paper, at a place called Mount M'Donald,
near the scene of the fair journalist’s present literary
triumphs. We learned the fact ourselves from a little
yellow handbill that Mary sent us; and, though we
understand the little lady has given us “ a turn” in the
brilliant Carcoar Crusher, wo hope that she will rake
’em in en her new venture. Let Mary do as we have
done—go in for making a success—something that
ladies sigh for and all men grab at. The editress of the
Carcoar Chronicle has, of course, as much talent as
we have, and most certainly a good deal more beauty.
The ball, therefore, is at the toe of her small 2’s. Let
her kick it. That will pay her better than kicking us,
and please us a good deal more. It is said that no
sooner had the last number of the Chronicle arrived
in Sydney, and Mary’s new venture became known,
than all the reporters out of place had their boots
cleaned and put on clean paper collars, and that morn-
ing Mr. Goodchap’s life was rendered a burden to him
by reason of the stream of applicants (all young and
very seedy) who came to entreat him for passes to
Carcoar “ for press purposes."
* # *
The Maitland Mercury is the solid and
dignified paper of the North. It never goes into un-
seemly ecstasies unless over “the splendid pumpkin
that was left at this office.” Here is a sample par. ro
“ Magnificent Pumpkins “ A magnificent pump-
kin has been left at this office by Mr. Jonathan Jorricks,
of The Orangery, Mud Flat. It is one of the early
species, and grows on stalks fully 10 feet from the
f round. The pumpkin at present in question measures
feet 2 inches round the girth, and 10 feet from tip to
snout; the whole standing about four hands high. It
is very sound, but, strange to say, has no inside.
Babbits have been frequently found inside them.
We are assured by Mr. Jorricks (who, we may state, ia
a subscriber to this paper of some years’ standing),
that this pumpkin was not reared by the artificial
process, known as the Asiatic. We have cut the
pumpkin up (thanks to Mr. Jones of the adjacent saw-
mill), and divided it among our staff, who will report
on its quality as soon as they are through with the
carrots referred to in our last issue.”
# * #
Darapier (who is now full of his London gags—
bless him!) tells a capital yam of Sanger, the great
English circus-man, and Walter Gooch, the lessee of
the London Princess's Theatre It appears that Gooch
hired a number of horses from Sanger in order to pro-
duce a piece called 11 Branded,” and when the run of
the play was over, Gooch proposed to purchase the
steeds for the purpose of taking the play to the pro-
vinces. Well, they came to terms, and it was agreed
that Gooch was to pay £l5O 10a. for four of the “ fiery
untamed." Meetimr next day, Gooch drew out a cheque
by mistake for £lsl. 11 Never mind, Sanger," he said,
•* you melt the ten shillings in a bottle of fizz." 11 I’d
rather keep it, now I’ve got it," said the circus-man.
“ Oh, nonsense,” said Gooch, •* come up into the caf<s.‘*
"Come," cried Sanger, "I’ll make you an offer,
Walter ” "Wellf" said Gooch, impatiently.
“ Let me,” said the circus-man, " keep that ten bob,
and I’ll throw you in another ’oss." Those steeds now
may be had at an alarming sacrifice. Apply, Princess’s
Theatre, Loudon. V.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Rev. Mr. Coutts haa handed over .£BOO of
the £lOOO he promised towards building a Sailors’ Home
at Newcastle.
The Bov. Mr. Summers, of Oamaru, N.Z., died
suddenly in church while conducting service. He waa
a very old man.
Father Gibney, the only hero of the Glenrowan
fight, has been entertained at a tea-meeting on his re-
turn to W. Australia. 700 present.
The Roman Catholics of Albion Park, Dapto,
and Shellharbour, presented Rev. P. J. Mahony at the
close of a mission he has been conducting, with a purse
of sovereigns.
Rev. C. W. Bardsley sends to the office of the
Palestine Exploration Fund a drawing and an account
of the ancient mouth of Jacob’s well, which he haa
recently uncovered.
Two English missionaries have crossed China
from Bhamo, in Burmah, to Hankow, on the Yangtso-
Kiang, accompanying a tradal caravan, which was only
once molested by the brigands of the Yunan Mountains.
The great zeal of the Mormons is seen in the
fact that the Book of Mormon has been published in
French, German, Italian, Danish, Polynesian, and
Welsh. Probably 75,000 foreigners have already cast
in their fortanes with Utah and polygamy.
The organ of the Vatican, the Aurora, haa
died a natural death. Monsignor Schiafflni, the respon-
sible editor, though a clever man, was incapable of
adapting himself to the exigencies of journalism. The
Aurora never sold more than a thousand copies, and
has cost Leo XIII. £4OOO.
The Lutheran Synodical Conference in America
has had troubles almost identical with those of the
Presbyterian Assembly in Victoria. There has been a
split on the doctrine of Predestination, one part of the
Church holding to and the other rejecting the belief
that God foreordains some men to be lost and some to
be saved.
There are too many churches and chapels in
Hobart. Many of them are ordinarily not half filled—
indeed, one chapel has been closed for want of a con-
gregation. Anglican 5, Presbyterian 1, R. C. 2, Wes-
leyan 2, 11 Brethren" 2, Free Church 1, Independent
3, Baptist 1, Friends 1, Christians 1. Only three out ef
these are well attended. Were there in all six only,
they would be moderately filled.
The trial of Father Larkin, at Honolulu, for
manslaughter, ended in a disagreement of the jury.
The rev. gentleman waa admitted to bail on his
own recognizances. It appears to have been judi-
ciously arranged that he should shake the dust
off his feet as regarded Honolulu, for he set sail for
San Francisco by the next steamer. This he did quite
openly, his intended departure being previously an-
nounced in the newspapers. The cause of the trouble
was that the roof (60 or 70 tons in weight) of the priest’s
school, which was of defective construction, fell and
killed a native, and it was sought to fasten the respon-
sibility on the defendant.
If the Salvation Army in Melbourne continue
their pranks, the members may get to Heaven by and
bye, but they are likely to experience a taste of “ burn-
ing fire ”in the mean time. Mr. M'Leod, Manager of
the London Chartered Bank, complained to the Chief
Secretary that though he represented to the Salvation
Army that his daughter was dying of brain fever, they
would not desist from singing. Mr. Byron Moore also
complained that they hod caused great annoyance, and
their noise had increased the delirium of his brother
whom he was nursing, and stated that if he was sub-
jected to further disturbances, he should commit
assaults, in order that the matter might bo ventilated
in the courts. He had heated a poker redhot the other
night specially to attack the Army with.
“ When I am played out as a novelist,” said
Balzac one day to Dumas, the elder, “ I intend to write
for the stage." *• Begin at once," replied Dumas.
Jews, when they take an oath in a Court of
Justice, say, not "So help me, God I" but "So help me,
Jehovah I"
They have been having good times at Bodalla
lately. There was a ball given in the township some
time since, which, as may be expected, was quite the
cheese. The affair was exceedingly brilliant, and com-
menced by the guests, numbering one hundred and two,
sitting down to tea. The viands at this banquet were
provided on most aesthetic prin iples, and the corned
beef was most admired. The flowers—particularly the
lilies—had not arrived; but the cold tongue and mufiina
were all there. Several of the ladies’ costumes were
very elegant'; and, although it was not a fancy dress hall,
many of the gentlemen were disguised in liquor.
Amongst the fair ones book muslin—non-starched —was
in great favour, and one young bride in black bomha-
zine, trimmed with red braid bows, and her brother
Ned’s Sunday shoes, feebly disguised by yellow rosettes,
was admitted on all hands to be the belle of the hall.
Another lady came out in red gauze over white calico,
with pearl buttons and a head-dress of artificial sun-
flowers and real pansies. Two fair sisters appeared in
cloudy muslin and white stockings to match, and dauced
both their shoes to pieces before supper-time; so that
they had to continue, after that repastj their evolutions
on the light fantastic in borrowed galoshes. Another
Bodalla ball is to be given shortly. The tickets will he
"five bob j" and each person brings his own supper, and
the beer-jug for aesthetic refreshment from the neigh-
bouring hostelrie. If the moral atmosphere of Sydney
is sufficiently clear to allow of our absenting ourselves
from the capital on the date of the next Bodalla festival,
we shall make a point of being there, and sampling the
Bodalla beauties, and ** wolfing” the Bodalla beef.
How very odd, oh, holy men.
We vow, it is to see
You never, somehow, can within
Your little nests agree!
Yon drench each other with abase,
And then you rub it in :
Yet if we grov’llers did the like.
You'd say it was a sin.
We think we’ll take to big white ties.
Black pants that e’er are brown,
And then we, with impunity.
Can run our neighbours down, —
Slate all who don’t with us agree.
And give “ the lie direct
Once be a reverend, than you
Need ne’er be circumspect.
You write then what you like, and lo I
The bigots all applaud ;
You always have the same old “ gag,”
'Ttoos written for the “ Louard."
In the Gloaming.
(A NEW VERSION.)
E. H. B.
In the tram-car, oh, my darling.
When the company is low.
And the ladies’ lap-dogs snarling
In and out the tram-car go—
When in vain I searched for threepence
To discharge my legal fare.
It was odd, indeed, my darling,
That I should have met you there.
In the tramoar, oh, my darling.
Think not bitterly of me.
Because I went away and left you.
Left you there to pay for me.
For I had not got a penny,
I was poor as I could be.
It was best to leave you thus, dear.
Not for you, but best for me!


Tobacconists
J.EVB . TOBACCOS
JAMES E T
No. 149 KING S’]
(Opposite Theatre Royal Sta.
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and ambc
148 KING STREI
EURE
KA
T H
AUTION
T O
THE UNPRECEDENTED
for the
EUREKA AND I.X.L.
Is inducing other Manufacturers
None are genuine but those bearing
HEART-SHAPED MET
stamped with the w<
EUREKA, or the lett
Smokers, ask for t
EUREKA or I.
THEY WILL NOT BITE T 1
Manufactured bj
T. S A Y W
EAGLE TOBACCO W
CLARENCE STREET,
LX.L
*
*
TIN TAG!
TIN T
Caution to Storeki
ANYONE selling Tobacco with i
other than those bearing onr
“ CONQUERER " or “ TANK!
is infringing our rights, and will b
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice
faoturer has been sending ont one o
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPEI
i
L'Sl ADULTER ATE
BAK/HC POWi
•3 mt
DA
AWABDED the
for Sewing A
ONLY FIEBT
MEDAL, ai
1881.
FIBST and SP
Show, 1877,1
Singleton,
ONLY First and
No other SEI
Special Prize at
to the contrary i
B. O
MANUFACTORY i
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Thla is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences. Churches, Stores, *O.; is
moTbrillianVthan colTgas, and. when properly made, is freefrom
all smeU wfamoke is entirely confined to the quantity of Talfow used, and wood for the furnace ;
* Railways in preference
to Coal Gas. p OE puM. PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TRESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling oil in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
THE "PRODUCER"
EBADICATES BCTJBF and DANDEUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Frees and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public,
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great soientifio discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
THE PAINT FOE lEONWOEK & OTHEE USE.
■RESISTS THE FUMES OF SULPHUEETTED HYDROGEN. NON-POISONOUS.
EXTRAORDINARY COVERING AND PRESERVING QUALITIES.
rr TMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD,
IN ANT CLIMATE CBAC k. 0 E FLAKE OFF.
... i iM&Snji t/> the fact that the cost of the labour is generally three or four times the
coft o/the beS. a bad paint Jill notlwt lon/ and the covering powers of Galley’s Paint are mud greater than
THE torbay PAINT company,
DEVON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENT FOE THE AUSTEALIAN COLONIES—
W. MONTAGU COWARD,
1?) HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
T
he a u s t
••HOME’* SHUT'
AMERICAN LOCKS'.
SEWING MAC
L
VA
OSS
ay
*
&
TO effectually stop the dooept
practised, every Machine no
is specially made for that clime, ant
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the worl
-x u A v fn this, and if I
mHO S. J. BOW
ENGINEERS, BEASSFC
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES. S A
HOSE. &c.
h*
4*o
mHE INDIA AND CHINA T
Fine Blended India:
Are without doubt the PUREST ai
offered te the Put
EVERYONE OUGHT TO r
THE KOOKABURRA.
A full-blooded animal—A mosquito.
A dead failure—A deceased bankrupt.
The worst hotel has sometimes the loudest
dinner-bell.
A muzzle over a dog’s mouth acts as suspen-
ders to his pants.
“ After man came woman,” and she has been
after him ever since.
Memo, by a lunatic asylum official—A butcher
never sends tough meat when he submits his tender.
When the Pilgrim Fathers first landed, they fell
on their knees, after which they fell on the aborigines.
When a Buddhist woman wants a divorce she
simply says “ git," and then Buddy gets up and puts on
his hat.
The average woman is composed of 243 bones,
169 muscles, 1 pair garters, 22 old newspapers, and 210
hair-pins.
A woman woke her husband during a storm, and
S&id: “I do wish you would stop snoring, for I want to
hear it thunder.”
It is said that several persons were poisoned
recently by eating sausages. This comes from leaving
brass collars on dogs.
He who asked the daughter’s hand and got the
father's foot, had the consolation of his
wooing was not bootless.
A love (k)not. She: “I do wish him near,
because I love him, father." He : “ Because you love
him near, I do wish him farther.”
A Canada farmer discovered a pit containing
500 skulls. Must have been the site of a theatre to
have so many dead-heads in the pit.
Ho was saved from the Tararua. So he went to
the telegraph-office, and wired : “ Saved—thanks to
Providence. Break it gently to my wife.’
Barber : “ You are very bald, sir. Have you
tried tonic lotion P** Bald-headed patient: “ Oh* yes.
But that's not what made all my hair fall off."
The Civil servant who told the red-haired girl
to “keep away or he’d catch fire," didn’t laugh when
■he said, “ Don’t bo afraid, you’re too green to burn. »
Doctor, to rheumatic patient; “ Try the waters
Of some hot spring." Patient (mournfully): "Its no
use—l’ve been in hot water ever since I was married.
A medical journal has found that there are from
100.000 to 200,000 hairs in a woman’s head. The number
of hairs in a man’s head depends considerably on the
time he has been married.
“ Herbert” writes to know if it is proper to
support a young lady in the act of fainting, if he has
not been introduced. We say, proper—of coarse.
Toung man, prop-k«r, by all means.
A brother arose in a weekly prayer meeting in
Hew Jersey, and said : “ Brethren, when I consider the
shortness of life, I feel as if I might be taken away
suddenly, like a thief in the night.”
Scene: Street corner. Squint-eyed J.P. and
editor of religions paper suddenly collide. J P.: Why
don’t you look where yon are going to P Ed.: wny
don’t you go where you are looking to?’
An old man-of-war sailor, who had lost a leg in
the service of his country, became a retailer *f peanuts.
He said he was obliged to be a retailer, because having
lost a leg he could not be a whole sailor.
Unconscious profanity sometimes comes to the
mtst exemplary Christian. A real good brother said
yesterday— M I must get a copy of the new Bible. 1
hear that the revisers have knock ed h— out of it.
Statistics show there is one lunatic for every
400 people in France. Well, that’s enough. One
lunatic, if he can get off all his clothes and find a knife
eleven inches long, can furnish very active employment
for just about 400 people.
A beautiful and touching sight recently occurred
at a circus. While a prominent belle was there an
elephant stopped upen her foot, and remained on it
until the young lady was apprised of his presence by a
companion, who had it driven away.
A boy came home from school much excited, and
told his father that ho believed all human beings were
descended from apes, which made the old man so mad
that he replied, angrily, ” That may be th» case with
you, but it ain’t with me, I can tell you that, now.
The following epistle was picked up near the
Post Office the other day ” Dear Qua : The reason I
didn’t laugh at you when you laughed at mo in the
Post Office is because I have a bile under my arm, and
I can’t laugh as I used to, as Heaven is my judge.
Tour loving Dora.”
A clergyman was onoo forced t» say to a congre-
Stion that persisted in depositing buttons in the con-
bution-box: 11 Brethren who wish to contribute
buttons will please not hammer down the eyes, for
while that process does not increase their value as com,
it does impair their usefulness as buttons.’
‘‘See her kiss that ugly dog,” said one gentle-
man to a friend in a tram-car, in a loud whisper, calling
attention to a woman who was lavish with her endear-
ments on a pot poodle. She overheard the comment,
and. glowering upon the unfortunate man, said. In
vinegary accents: ** It won't hurt me, if I do. On,
I beg your pardon, madams, but my sympathy was
wholly with the dog."
A little follow, who knew Mother Goose better
than he knew his Bible, was asked in his class, “Who
were thrown into the fiery furnace ?’’ This was too
much for him. The question was passed. The answer
came promptly. ” Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego.
This was a mortification to the little fellow; and when
the next question came, “ Who put them in? he an-
swered, with a jump, “ Little Johnny Green 1


Business Annonn
ft E. L A
Wholesale and £U
PRODUCE MEE
Comer
GEOBGE AND QIPPB
SYDNEY.
BRANCH BTORI
48 Qeorge-street West (late Pa
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near W
Pure Cape Barley, Feed an
P. E. LARK
Whousalb and Retail Wine ani
778 and 780 GEORGE STR
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of W
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY 1
CABLES AND AH
strongly recommend their
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any
muoh higher prii
724 GEORGE S'
HAYMARKET
H.
A. A B
BOOKSELLER AND
KING STREET,
(five doobs FROM PITT
Every description of Plain and Fi
lowest possible pri
«r A TRIAL SOLI
AGENT for Melbourne AGE
R
OBERT BUTCI
(Late William Lo:
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
634 GEORGE STR]
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL
Country Orders Receive Pro
S
HERIDAN & PI
STOCK AND SHARE B
94 PITT-STEEE
SYDNEY.
Hxnrt A. Sheridan, formerly Ma
mercial Bank, Maitland.
Jambs Fullfobd, of West Maitlaz
Chemists and Druggists
CAUTION. —In our style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boschee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or feur
doses For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d. ;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA LINIMENT
was introduced into London
two years ago, where thousands of cases were cured
—and one year in Sydney; and some of the worst cases
of Rheumatism have been cured in a short time by
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long standing, it will cure.
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Aches it will cure in a
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by a few applications.
HEAD OFFICE :
89 WATERLOO-ROAD, LONDON}
and
107 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNEY.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor,
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE AGENTS, PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
MANZANITA FRUIT PILLS.
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented for Liver complaints,
Thousands of people in Sydney have used them, and
have been cured of Biliousness, Indigestion, Costive-
ness, Sick Headaches, and all complaints arising from
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO ROAD. LONDON;
and 107 CASTLEREAQH STREET, SYDNE I".
8. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE AGENTS.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL OF PHARMACY,
(Late Felmingham’b)
78 KING STREET,
Dispensing Establishment.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet requisites, Ac. Patent Medicines sold below the
English marked price. All articles carefully selected.
D. HALE, Manager, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to eostiveuess,
and being free from any tendency to oause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES, ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
YDNEY PROVIDENT DISPENSARY.
ALL MEDICINES AND PRESCRIPTIONS
AT HALF THE USUAL CHARGE.
MECHANICAL AND SURGICAL DENTISTRY,
ARTIFICIAL TEETH.
Full Set, £6 155.; Single Tooth, 7s.
Extraction, per tooth. Is.; Children, 6d.
PROFESSORS ARNOLD AND MAURICE,
196, Pitt-street—opposite Farmer’s.
HENRY’S COLONIAL OINTMENT, AND
AUSTRALIAN WORM POWDERS.
Prepared only by the Inventor and Proprietor, J,
HENRY, CHEMIST, 750 Qeorge-street, Haymarket,
third door from Commercial Bank.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linotns, you will not oe able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
rpICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aua-
JL tralian Relish, made by Washington H, Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TREATMENT for all
Nervous Disorders, which unfit sufferers for marriage,
&C-> Ac. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Chest, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—R. T.
jELBY, Medical Herbalist, Devonshtre-street, Surry
Hills, Sydney.
COOPER & CO.,
WINE AND SPIBIT MERCHANTS,
CENTRAL STORES;
371 PITT STREET,
Between Liverpool and Bathcest Streets.
Country kters will receive oar careful attention
Business Annouxu
LIiBOAI.J
BHOETEE, PITZGERALI
80LICIT0I
69 CASTLEEEAQH STEEI
and
MACQUAEIE STEEET
Mr. Shorter, Notary
T EQAL.—Mr. T. M. 1
SOLICITOE, has oo
practice of his profession, a 1
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
G
AND S. Pi
SAW MILLS AND TIM]
16 Erskine Stre
Every description of Foreign aj
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Morldings. Cases, Turnery. Ac., at
CH A E L E S
(from Messrs. P. N. Euss
Manufacturer of Cooking Stov
Mountings, &o. Off No. 517 Geo
Bathurst and Liverpool streets], S
£IHEAPEST AND EES'
AT
MAEK ISAACS* COEPOEAI
HAT STEEET, HAYM
TEA, Is per lb
Other articles equally ohei
Go d • packed and delivered free
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTET STOEEKEEPEES LL
WITH.
AO. C H U E C
• 147TOEKSTE
Opposite the Mark
IMPOETEE AND MANUPi
Coffee, Peppers, Spii
CLEVELAND MILLS, STJ]
CHEAPEST HOUSE I]
for Liverpool and Black Hori
Choicest Sage and Majoram on 1
680,000 AMEEICAN SK
Just arrived, all s
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sa
Is 6d per lb,
Mntton Sausage Skins, 9d per 11
Canterbury.
CENTEAL PUENISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 28, 31, anc
Come and inspect our large £
FUENITUEE at lowest prices in i
WE FUETSH HOUSES oi
from £lO to £lOOO, at th
NISHING AECADE, Nos. 29. £
street.
CENTEAL PUENISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31. ai
H. LEVY & CO. desire to call t
public to their large and magnifii
Household FUENITUEE, at pn
petition. Every article marked in j
carefully packed, and sent to all pa
Alaege assoetment
the best makers —Errard, ]
time payment. CENTEAL PUEN
Public Compa
The meecantile bai
ESTABLISHED
IKCOEPOEATED BY ACT OF
Faid-ap Capital
Eeservo Fond.
DIEECTOES
• The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.I
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidlev King, M.I
AUDITOEB
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGEE:
F. A. A. Wils<
SECEETAETi
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES
687 Qeorge-street Brickfield H
LONDON BANKI
The National Provincial Banl
London Office, 30, Great I
Director —Edward Chap
Agent—G. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Bi
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mi
other nrodnee shipped to England I
gCOTTISH
IMPERIA
COMPANY,
CAPITAL
FIEE EISKS AT LOWEi
INGLIS, NIXON, .
Chief Agents for N.l
7 BEIDGE STREET CH
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
c
ORNWALL FIRE AND 1
ANCE COMP AN
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
EESEEVE FUND
Fire and Maxine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AI
Agents,
348 QEOEGE-STEI
SkDNEY.
NCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKTN(
CIAL PROVIDENT fcOCIE
This Society provides a certain fix
members when thrown out of empl
Medical attendance during sicknes
age, and when incapacitated from to
ment through disease or accident; ai
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence
suitable re-engagemi
For further particulars, apply to
<5. HORTON MORE]
Secretai
Wenti
• El
Applications for Agencie
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TRAMWAY TICKETS.
G E O C E E S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
ATTHITR.AT.TAW WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXPOED STESET
(Opposite Court-Ronse),
DARLINQHUEST.


ROW'S EMBRO
OR,
Farmer’s Pri
Is the most reliable Embrocation
tralian public, and is universally
the best preparation for all cuts, b
fee., in horses or cattle. One tr
owners of stock that ROW’S EM
best remedy ever introduced.
CAUTION TO THE ;
Beware of spnrions imitations,
■crapulous persons, who, for the
will recommend other preparations
ASK FOR ROW’S EMB
Extract of letter received from
nary surgeon, Mr. Joseph Armstro
“ Sydce
" I have used Row’s Embrocatio
digestive stimulant for indolent s
Irritant, and have found it a very t
Sold by Druggists and Storekee
Australian colonies, 3s. 6d. bottle,
Merchants.
EDWARD ROW AND
SYDNEY.
JOSEPHSON’S 0
BY ROYAL LETTERS
THE MOST USEFUL OINTME]
Bar NONE.
If THIS OINTMENT is not cel
tive powers, it must be in those dii
white man never travelled. On thi
BARCOO, at COOPER’S CREEK,
and on the banks of other rivers
from poisoned wood, ulcers from
living abound, pots of Josephson’s
found.
The Shepherd cannot do witho
always has it; the Housewife in
discharge her duties in healing the
her offspring, and those of her ne
has a pot of JOSEPHSON’S OINI
It has received a name in the
that no other Power can weaken.
It is a pure GREEN YEGETABI
being an Extract of the Wild Plan
The Child as well as the Adult ca
look Driver is nevei^without it. 1
has it in his store. The Selecto
worth. It cures not only Sores, B
bnt nearly all kinds of skin dise
Cheap, and can be purchased fi
Storekeepers and Chemists, Is. a
bom
EDWARD ROW & 0
43, 49, and 47 Lower Geoi
Good a p i
FOR BREAKFA
on the
HOTTEST SUMMER I
may be procured by taking a wir
water of
ROW'S STEANES’
Invalids troubled with lerang
completely regain their health by
of this invaluable tonic.
To All who Suffer from Wea
READ THIS:
STATUTORY DECLAR
“I, GEORGE HEWITT, do h<
sincerely declare as follows; —Tin
owe to the public to state that I
for many years from weakness of th
Indigestion or Dyspepsia, and hav
taking two or three glasses of STE
day in a little water, and I hope o
the same complaint will be as speec
•' (Signed) G. Hxwn
11 Declared at Sydney, August 12,
“ (Signed) W. Henderson, J.P.
Then try them and ask for
BITTERS, prepared solely by E:
COMPANY, Sydney.
READ THIS, FOB IT CONGER
Parents in the Country,
tendance is not at hand, are freq
know what is the best Family Med
house, suitable for all casualties to
heir to. We call attention to the a
in the combination of a mild apt
physio, not in the shape of pill or t
which can be given at any time to
hers of the family. Extract of a
•* I never knew a child to re
Then keep a box of RAN DERSON’I
LOZENGES by you, and when o:
them you will never he without,
all Chemists and Storekeepers.
HE INDIAN TE
PURE FRAGRANT INE
Fresh from the Gardens, grown urn
vision, and sold in Original Package
Samples, Press Notices, Analyses,
Application.
Special Rates for Large Orders.
A delicious Tea in the cup. No (
Goes twice as far as the best Chinei
We challenge comparison with <
for Leaf, Strength, Flavour, and A
or any of the China teas imported 1
INGLIS, NIXOI
INDIAN PRODUCE ME:
INSURANCE AND GEN El
7 Bridge-street Chan
LIVE STC
Having secured the services of
LAND, well-known in Victoria am
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to ass
all interested in the SALE of FAT
and STATION PROPERTIES, tl
shall be directed to this branch of
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite
tical knowledge, attention, and
which have made my Wool and Pr<
a success, will entitle me to the C(
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush a:
a week; allowances made on all S
tended for sale, and proceeds of sah
a week, or when required on days oi
Further information if applied fo
MASON BROT
14 & 16 £
S 3
Have always ii
to the TEA
SALE BUTI
lEONMONGE
GENEI
GLAS
BARTH
WINES, BEE
and
BULK Ml
Ag
JOHN WAI
Old High
J. SORI
C
J. T.
bchnappi
A. MELV
Edinbui
WML
jeWelle^/^%;
N|ADE Jo*o
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GB
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED
Turret Clocks—simple, striki
Spectacles, etc., of all
Plain figures—Lew pi
w. H - p A
G RE
i
GENT
QOT
RES
GU
A
ALU
KCPS
ANV
Fill
*U«%
WWw?. HiVWi ii
VMIIUmv
A
CENTAL.
m
ALARMING SALE OE BOOTS AND SHOES
NOW ONI NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If yon are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOB ONE MONTH ONLY.
10s 6d DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Fore’s Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five cases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
shrunk and well out. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD JOR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
832 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
SOWING BROTHERS’
332 ft 500
GEORGE STREET.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 600
GEORGE STREET.
In the ASSIGNED ESTATE of
C3r. A.. SMITS.
88, KING-STREET. 88, KING-STREET.
EVAN JONES
begs to inform the public that he has purchased from the Trustees in the above
Estate the entire STOCK, consisting of GOLD and SILVER WATCHES and
CHRONOGRAPHS; GOLD, SILVER, DIAMOND, and FANCY JEWELLERY;
GOLD and SILVER CHAINS; MARBLE, ALABASTER, WOODEN, and
NICKEL CLOCKS; OPTICAL GOODS, &c., at 50 per Cent. BELOW COST, and
that he will hold a Clearing Sale on the Premises, for THREE WEEKS, at prices
hitherto unheard of in Sydney.
COMMENCEMENT OF SALE,
SATURDAY, September 24tb.
PRESENT PRICES.
now
0
£4 15 0
2 15 0
1 0 0
400 per oz
2 15 0 u
00 0 .
0 10 0
0 set
0
0
0
0
6
0
EARLY INSPECTION INVITED WHILST THE STOCK IS COMPLETE.
0 1
0 4
Mote the Address —
88, King-street. 88, King-street.
OPPOSITE THE NEW ARCADE.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Edwin Arnold, the poet, is dangerously ill.
Mr. Froude, it is said, will have a peerage.
Parnell has bought the Irishman newspaper.
Miss Smith, from the Redfern school, succeeds
Mrs. Bard well at Crown-street.
Garnet Walch and John Conway are, it is said,
about to bring out a new paper in Melbourne.
General Roberts leaves England on October 12,
to assume chief command in the Madras Presidency.
Hartmann, of tried-to-kill-the-Czar renown, is
-said to be travelling in Canada under the name of Block.
Mr. W. E. Gladstone’s half-century Parlia-
mentary jubilee will be held with great £clat next year.
Bret Harte talks of surrendering his consulship,
and returning to America. Bret is probably over-
worked.
After the death of his son, Sir Percy Shelley, the
poet will, in common with Byron, have no descendant of
Lis name.
Alderman Horn, of Brisbane, against whom
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., has an action for libel, is
dangerously ill.
Professor Denton asserts that the intellectual
knowledge a man obtains in this world is his stock of
capital for business in the next,
r-* Mr. Bayless, P.M. of Wagga, is again laid up
from the effects of the wounds received by him in con-
flict with the bushrangers, some years ago.
■“Lefroy claims to have written several American
dramas. If this be true, we can perfectly understand
him being a man who would stick at nothing I
Father Chiniquy is, we see, at St. Anne,
Kankakee Co., Illinois, U.S. The Rev. Mr. Sutherland
has just received a begging letter from him, dated
July 20th.
ft Leo Hartmann’s account of his attack on the life
of Alexander 11., near Moscow, has been published in
the New York Herald, and reads as a very romantic
novelette. - 1 -vutfia " jtLßfiia ■ •tIRMI *»
31 It is reported that a fourth paper (a daily)
is’to be started at Townsville, under the conduct of
Mr. Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, Char-
ters Towers.
Sub-Inspector Kaye, of the Queensland native
■police, has been murdered by blacks at Woolgar. A
good many darkies will bite the dust within the next
few weeks in consequence.
It is stated at Vienna that a marriage has been
arranged between Count Wilhelm Bismarck, son of the
German Chancellor, and the Countess Hsl&ne Andrassy,
daughter of Count Andrassy.
Mr. Frank W. Fenton, police court reporter for
the Argus, has died of consumption, which terrible
disease also caused the death of his predecessor, the
talented and genial Mr. William O’Hea.
The girl baby recently born to Sir Evelyn Wood,
the English general of South African fame, is well off
in the matter of godmothers. The Queen is one, the
Empress Eugenie is the other. The infant bears the
name of “ Victoria Eugenie.”
The World considers that the Duke of Somer-
set looks like an Islington grocer in his Sunday best,
and says that to see him girt with his riband, you would
fancy that he was also a light among the Foresters or
Oddfellows, or a leader of the Band of Hope.
Mr. Thomas Broad wood, the piano man, left
personal property valued at the nice little sum of
£423,924 Is. Bd. Some of this must have been made
about the time when the coal trade was so brisk that
•every miner drank champagne and had three pianos in
his house.
Constable MTntyre, who escaped from the
Kellys when his comrades were murdered, has been
superannuated. Ever since the terrible day on which
the Mansfield tragedy took place M’lntyre has been in
a very depressed condition of health. He is a compara-
tively young man.
Mr. Darley, Q.C., says that The Bulletin
isn’t a newspaper—it contains no news. As a matter of
fact, The Bulletin contains more news than any other
paper, for it contains all the news from all the other
papers. The essence of a whole drove of cattle can be
compressed into a single plate of soup.
James Refane, servant to Mr. District-Surveyor
Bolton, of Wagga, died recently He was at the bom-
bardment of Algiers in 1816, and was on board the
Bellerophon at the time of Napoleon’s surrender in
1815. Refane was born at Parramatta in 1794. His
father was a soldier; and he, going to England when a
hoy, joined the navy.
During the sermon at Melbourne on Sunday week
the Rev. Mr. Rentoul (Presbyterian) spoke of ‘‘Mush-
room men renting and buying the mansions of the
illustrious dead, and dogging their shadows.” Surely
Mr. Rentoul couldn’t have been referring to “ our illus-
trious colonist,” Sir “Gorgius” Salmon Wilson—who
has succeeded Beaoonfleld at Hughenden ?
The Dean of Melbourne describes much of the
prevalence of the social evil to the folly ol mothers,
who are too anxious to marry off their daughters, but
who are constantly preventing their sons from entering
into the marriage state. The end of it is that the girls
get a taste for finery and idleness, and the young men
for company unsuited for them in every respect.
Mr. Derbin Willder, the well-known Melbourne
stock-broker, has got a divorce. His wife and John
Frederick Henderson, a salesman, ran away together,
and are now living at San Francisco. Mr. W. J. Mit-
chell, of Sydney, whose wife, Amy, was brought into
prominence by the recent attack made upon her life at
Melbourne by Henry Colley, has als ) obtained a decree.
The Hon. E. Langton, ex-Treasurer of Vic-
toria, in a lecture on “ Fiji under British rule,” said
that Sir Arthur Gordon has thrown the natives into a
state of more complete slavery than ever they were
before. Mr. Langton described in glowing terms the
wonderful fertility of the country and the beauty of
its flora, which, he remarked, would drive a Vic-
torian gardener to despair.
It is said that the Queen is already looking out
for a good match for her grandson, the heir to the throne
after his father, the Prince of Wales; and it is under-
stood in court circles that after scanning the entire
courts of Europe, she has about decided that the Prin-
cess Clementine, the third daughter of the King of the
Belgians and the sister ef the future Empress of Austria,
would make a suitable bride a few years hence.
The late Dean Stanley had a keen satirical wit
of his own, but shrunk from anything approaching low
comedy. He said in despair to a friend of Charles
Dickens, “ If only I could read any of his works with
any pleasure, or appreciate his jokes I” Yet his ser-
mon on the great novelist was considered to be a
masterpiece of sympathetic eloquence. Fancy, not
being able to read Dickens’s works with pleasure, or
appreciate his jokes t
Mr. William Lehman Ashmead Burdett-Coutts
Bartlett, has now taken another name, and desires that
in future he may be known as William Lehman Ash-
mead Burdett-Coutts Bartlett-Coutts. It is to be
hoped he will supply all his correspondents with printed
envelopes of an extra length, for life is short- It is »n-
-derstood that W.L.A.8.C.8.C. has “P.T.0.” printed
on his visiting cards, in order that people may turn over
for the rest of his name. It can’t all be got on the front.
George Collins Levey, erf Melbourne, has been
robbed of a diamond brooch, worth about £5OO, pre-
sented to him while in Paris. The theft took place some
weeks ago, but the matter has only been recently re-
ported to the police. It hasn’t been stated who the
donor was, but we suppose it was a prima donna —or an
Empress. [The very latest is that the brooch was
never stolen at all. It has been found in O. C.’s bed-
room. Everyone now knows that the talented Q. C.
has a £SOO brooch].
Mr. James Balfour, M.L.C., champions the
right of the “ Salvation Army” to sing through the
streets of Melbourne. 11 Holy” Balfour is the indi-
viduallwho, when a member of the Victorian Assembly,
was once referred to by poor Aspinall as “ the hon. and
reverend gentleman.** Balfour objected* and claimed
the interference of the chair, whereupon the witty
barrister ejaculated: " Very well, then—the honorable
and irreverent gentleman 1” At which the Speaker and
the House guffawed.
An English contemporary informs us that at the
2nd Life Guards’ ball, held at the Knightsbridge Bar-
racks, in London, the personage most remarked was
King Kalakaua, who had painfully arrayed himself in
evening clothes, who had apparently invested himself
with the Order of the Sandwich Garter, worn over the
wrong shoulder, and who, in the intervals of severe re-
freshment and of delicate attention to the Princess
Mary, danced with much energy and composure, and
looked like a converted missionary.
Mr. William Sefton Moorhouse, the first mem-
ber elected to the N.Z. House of Representatives after
the granting of the Constitution, is dead, at the age of
56. He represented Ashley at the time of his death.
The Premier, Sir George Grey, and Mr. Macandrew,
made feeling remarks on the subject of Mr. Moor-
house’s demise, and it was agreed that the House
should adjourn in order that members might attend the
removal of the corpse to the steamer which was to
convey it to his family in Canterbury.
Among the men named as possible successors to
Dean Stanley are his brother-in-law, Dean Vaughan,
who has twice refused a bishopric, and Canon Duck-
worth, who was at one time famous as the person for
whom the Princess Louise conceived a violent passion.
Since then he has been made notorious without any
fault of his own, through a scandal growing out of the
love of a leas exalted, but equally devoted, woman ; and
it is thought that his promotion would be assured if he
could only bo guaranteed against the admiration of the
fair sex.
Sir Arthur Gordon, it is supposed, will be absent
from New Zealand about two months, but rumour hath
it that he will not return. It is on the cards that he
will be removed to a neighbouring colony, where he will
be handier to Polynesia, and he will then be in a better
position to perform the dual office of Governor and
High Commissioner. Sir Arthur’s departure during the
Parliamentary session was the subject of very adverse
comment, both in the House and outside. One gentle-
man, who is in a position to know, says his Excellency’s
total salary is £12,000 per annum.
There is a bright gleam of light in the dark sky
of the victim of ink madness. Percy Lefroy Mapleton,
the Brighton murderer, is the pioneer of the new path-
way to literary fame. His romances, neglected and
cast aside, are being searched for everywhere. Pub-
lishers ore bidding one against another for the precious
MS. His “ sweetly pathetic ” stories are selling like
wild-fire, his name is on the title-page and in the adver-
tisements in giant letters ; and it is even said that his
opera-bouffe, once rejected with scorn, is about to be
mounted with splendour, powerfully oast and presented
in triumph at a West-end theatre.
Vanity Fair states, in connection with the
Brighton railway murder, that “ on the morning after
the murder Lefroy went to the Fever Hospital, at
Islington, to see his sister, who was a patient there.
While he was with her a second person called to see
her. This second person, who was a detective, was,
according to the usualipractice, shown into the visitor’s
room, while a message was sent to Lefroy’s sister to
the effect that a gentleman wished to see her. She and
Lefroy accordingly came down together, and parted at
the door of the visiting-room. On entering she was
told by the detective that he wanted her brother.
‘Why,’ said she, ‘he has just gone out of the door.’
The detective bolted after him —but he had dis-
appeared.”
When Levy, the cornet-player, was here, he
put on a good deal of what is known as “ marmalade,”
and was, in a general way, both off the stage and op it,
quite more than celestially utter. Entering Qus
Wangenheim’s one day, and gazing upon the sketches
which ornamented the walls, he said: “ I thought you
drew every celebrity !on these walls who arrived in
Sydney. I see —ah, —several people of minor note, but
” “ Not your own, eh ? ’* interrogated Qus ; “ dis
is really a very sad omission. Wait, howeveu, one
moment, and I will rectify de error.” And taking a
piece of chalk, Qus got upon a chair, and with a light-
ning hand drew—a shirt front with three diamond
studs, and a cornet. And thus a vendetta was estab-
lished between two great men.
Patterson, late a resident of Yass, who has been
imprisoned as a suspected patriot in |Kilmainham gaol,
entered the 23rd Regiment in 1840, and went to India in
1846. There he fought under Gough, Dalhousie and
others~at Goojerat and both sieges of Mooltan, being
wounded in three battles and receiving a medal. A
poisoned bullet effectually invalided him, and he was
sent to this colony, where he received a grant of land,
and was appointed post and school master of Tangman-
garoo, near Yass. In this colony he was an excellent
and estimable citizen. In Ireland the authorities
clapped him into gaol. This points out the difference
between the two places, and helps people to understand
what sort of persons those are whom the English
papers abuse os senseless furious agitators.
Our Victorian “ forgery”—or rather “ass in
lion’s skin” —recently prints as follows; —“ A vendor
of second-hand clothes was the ambitions occupation
with which Hobart Pasha began his career. He fitted
out a ship, and interested himself in the coasting trade
in the East in order to sell them, and was made a
Turkish Admiral, having secured a little knowledge of
navigation.” We have only one objection to find with
the above clip, end it is simply this : The writer refers
to himself, not to the Turkish Nelson. The plain truth
is: Hobart Pasha was formerly an officer in the British
navy, and by permission of the Admiralty took service
under the Turkish Government about 1850, as any one
possessing back numbers —'53 to ’55 —of the Illus-
trated London News can at once discover. We are
taught to give even the devil his due, why—therefore,
should we refuse a Turk the same civility ?
Things are lively in Paris, on Rochefort’s paper,
the Intransioeant. Two of the staff, Oliver Pain and
Degeorges, had a duel, and when Pain has scratched
Degoorge’s elbow, both came back and •* posed,” hero-
like, on the Boulevards. Now, Pain had challenged his
chief, Rochefort, for giving him the “ sack,” so there
will be more bodkin-tilting directly. This French
fighting is getting played out. If Degeorges would
kill Pain, and then get spitted by Rochefort, who in
his turn would be skewered by PauldeCassognac, there
would be some sense in it. But as it is, the dummy
duelling of our Gallic journalistic cousins is merely a
cheap ad. for themselves and the papers they represent.
Happily, The Bulletin doesn’t want advertising. If
it did, we’d call out the South Sea Islands Commis-
sioner of the D.T., and fight him with German sausages.
That would be the only way to get at him.
Another idol shattered ! Here is Bismarck at
Kissengen, described by a writer in Vanity Fair “ I
stumbled on him accidentally, while he was driving along
with his wife; and I regret to be obliged to own that
his general appearance disappointed me. He is a bottle-
nosed, goggle-eyed, slovenly, greasy old man, in a
shabby frock-coat and a wide necktie. If you didn’t
know who he was, you would certainly hesitate to lend
him half-a-crown on his note-of-hand; and you would
as certainly decline to accept his dog and the whole of
his wardrobe as an adequate security for repayment of
the loan. I admire Bismarck as a politician, because
I believe him to be thoroughly unscrupulous and un-
principled. I respect him for his undisguised brutality
in public, and his cynical selfishness in private, life.
But I wish that, so long as I am exposed to meeting
him at Kissengen, Mrs. Bismarck would wash his face
for him, and take steps generally to keep him cool.*’
If Bismarck, as they say, got Herr Most his eighteen
months, what terrors are not in store for this intrepid
scribe ?
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Seoy. Banking Co.” : No name ; declined
“A.Q.": Exactly “Young Poet”: You’re an old
bird, but so are we. Too thin “ A.T." : Referred to
last week “Emerald”: Glad to hear from you, but
send something lively and of general interest. “Re
C. 8.": Why don’t you send yonr name? Odium theo-
logicum evidently “ Sine Mouetso ”: Very acceptable.
“Nemo" (Mornya): First-rate “E.G.”: Good
story “ G S." : Much obliged lor your interest in
our welfare. However, we know what people like to
read, and what is good for them to read, and we intend
to go on and make The Bulletin “ more like it is."
“C.T.": The silly platitudes addressed by Brown
the unknown to Jones the undistinguished haven't the
slightest interest either for ourselves or our readers.
“ W.G.”: Your notice on the Cumberland Christies
was rejected because it was not only groat “rot," but
very offensive. Keep your hair on “Q.C.G.”: We
don’t understand you. Who in thunder is “ Steeple
Charlie ? ” “ E C.: (1) Yes, it's very wrong to smoke.
(21 No, your husband shouldn’t smoko if yon object.
(3) Yes, we smoke every time we get a chance. (4) No,
we won’t stop. We are smoking now an old black
G.B.D. with a straight stem. We aren’t your husband,
and don’t want to be. Wo yearn for the lifelong com-
panionship of a sensible woman—a girl with the heart
of a woman, and the soul of an angel—who’d buy us
cigars and tobacco, instead of purchasing new bonnets
for herself; a girl who’d tell ns to smoke in the sitting-
room, instead of sending us into the kitchen or the yard
—who’d like us to smoke while she was laying the tea-
things “ W.L.” (Bourke-street): Possibly you have
some wit, but it’s a good way under. When we can get
the loan of a rusty auger we’ll try and dig some of it
out “ Stanmore”: Your verses received. Will
read them for next week “E.M.8.": Much obliged
for the information “Woollahra”: Will read and
consider “W.S.": Very good; but next time plhase
write on one side of the paper only “ B. 8.” : Yes;
Barry Sullivan has visited Australia. It is said he will
do so again very shortly “ Hazediah Spratt” i We’ll
be there soon “ W. U.C.W.”: Thanks ; quite a
curiosity “J.H.T.": Glad to hear from you again.
“AC.A”: Received “Wire Nail”: You’re a
very rusty nail, indeed. We’ve never asked you to bay
the paper. If you don’t think it good enough, keep
your threepence. If we weren’t able to make the
public buy The Bulletin—well, then, we’d expect
to die soon. We’re not afraid of next term
“ Penwiper": Thanks for ticket, but we don’t go to
Sunday-school picnics. When we want to enjoy our-
selves innocently now, we drink rum and dance about
and break things “Artemus Word”: If you are
the real Artemus, call round. Glad to “ goak” with
you. But you’ve got awfully stupid since you went to
the “othershore." “Sweet Sixteen": Don’t send
us verse. If you must send something, send a case of
variola “ Temora": Do you seriously imagine that
we’re going to attack any body’merely because you don’t
like them ? “ Hobart Cathedral" : No point in it
“ Yass " : Bather too decolletie for us. Might perhaps
suit a religious paper. Try Monthly Notes
“ Motus" : Try again, but give us something in
cantos and in blank verse. No matter how long it is,
we will find room for it—in the hamper “ That Per-
son": If you have seen so much of tha world and
of foreign countries as that, it’s rather a pity
you let your travels run in your mind to the extent
of inundating your communication to us with mis-
placed capitals “Bambini": Yonr extract is only a
bit of “Valentine Vox" dished up “Canary”:
Your par. is too vague. Which has broken down —the
organ or the organist? “ A.Q." : If you quote a
pajier, you must send the printed extract. We prefer
in any case to write the comments ourselves “Styx":
If you send anything, send at least sense, and we en-
treat you to write legibly. There is nothing clever ia
making pot-hooks and hangers that no one can de-
cipher “Tableau": No point in your par.
Were you called away to dinner in the middle
of it ? Bolt that erust and try again
“Vectis”: Write again “Stranger” (Tamworth):
Thanks “M.N.": Capital. Glad to get a line
from you often "OldJunee”: Nothing in it. Have
another shot “ A Constant Subscriber ’’ (Mary-
borough, Q.): Received. Send something of all-round
interest “J.H.C.” (1) No; but he must be a rate-
payer. After he becomes an alderman ho soon gets
property. (2) “Leichhardt" is pronounced “Like-
hart.” (3) Longfellow wasn’t a blacksmith, not much.
in earnest or mean to be satirical. Label lampoons:
“This is sarkosm," “Coquelioot": Many thanks
for your criticism of our critique on “ Madame Favart.”
We can perfectly understand the feelings that actuate
you in disagreeing with us. And those feelings do
Before Amalgamation. After Amalgamation.
AMALGAMATION OF THE LEGAL PROFESSIONS.


honour to your heart—whatever they may do to your
head “E.M.”: We last heard o( Lucy Escott and
Henry Squires as enjoying their retirement at Paris.
“ Ouida” resides at Florence “Nemo": Impossible
to decipher your copy. What do you write it with—a
clothes-prop ? “Quarantine”: (Don't send ns any
more Quarantine poetry, thanks, until the waggon has
taken away what we have already on hand “ Satire ”:
We can’t really inform you where John D. throws his
old shoes, but have heard that they make jelly of them
at certain restaurants. We should think by the rest
of your questions that you had been looking too ling
at the moon when she was full—or getting full your-
self. Never mind prose. Give us a sonnet on the mis-
fortunes of a black beetle, or the amours of a grass-
hopper “ Pil Garlic We are not a mining paper,
and so don’t care for “comic" quotations. Send
ns some social stuff about Grafton " Gran-
ville": Thanks. Glad to hear from you again
“Tatt’s"; Go ahead “ John Bull": Bight you
are " Patsy ".- Tour love verses to your love are not
of general interest, but still if you prove to us that
they ere original we will insert them. If you cannot
do this, kindly inform us to what volume of Bow Bells
you are indebted for these outpourings of your sonl
“ J.M.G.": The idea of your “ Commemoration " verses
is good, only you can’t rhyme “Venus ” to “ Oretnus."
We will endeavour, however, to touch them up for you.
“E. G.”: There is merit in your verses, and you
have ohosen a pretty rhythm; but they are crude. Try
again, carefully “Grattan" (Stanmore): Until you
write something with an idea in it you’re not likely to
occupy any space more valuable than that of the waste
paper basket “E.J.D." : When you write don’t say
anything about “ Your valuable paper.” That’s what
people always say when they want to get a letter into
the Herald or the D.T. We know that we're valu-
able and we don't want to hear it any more “Anvil”
Next week.
SOCIAL.
A circumstance which might hare been amusing
to some, but was very annoying to others, occurred in
connection with the recent Bachelors’ ball at Quean-
bey an. Some person possessed himself of a number of
invitation tickets belonging to one of the promoters of
the affair, and sent them not only to townspeople, but
to residents some distance away. In many cases, the
tickets were unsuspectingly accepted, and dresses
actually prepared, though in other instances the re-
cipients guessed a hoax. A warning paragraph in a
local paper a day before the ball, however, exposed the
deception; and now some of those who indulged in
visions of cheap joy on the strength of the bogus in-
vitations would like to meet the generous sender. He
will hear of something to his advantage.
* • *
An English paper says that “ gentleman’s night
attire is now trimmed with frills, and worked in fancy
stitches with red and blue cotton," It was thought
that the British male had reached the apex of his
effeminacy when he took to wearing silver bangles on
his wrists, and gaiters on his feet. Some of these fine
days he will be found parading the streets with lace
frillings round the bottoms of his trousers, and a
wreath of roses round the brim of his hat. By the
way, the not very take-yonr-carte-de-visite-inable gar-
meuts referred to are also made in fancy chintzes, so
that the frills and fancy stitches are not the only
vagaries fashion has introduced for the sleeping garb of
British manhood.
* * *
"What are called Cinderella balls, have become
very popular in England. They were introduced by
the Princess of Wales, and the idea is an extremely
happy one. Their name is, of course, derived from the
well-known story of little Cinderella, who was taken to
a ball by a good fairy, but was obliged to leave it at
exactly midnight. Ordinary balls often result in a good
deal of fatigue to all, excepting the robust. The vicis-
situdes of seven or eight hours’ dancing—rich,
indigestible suppers, and the journey home in the chill
night air when the vital energy is lowered—can only be
endured by strong constitutions without injury. The
new entertainment may be summed up thus : Dancing
commences not later than 8 o’clock, the programmes
providing some twelve or fifteen dances; light refresh-
merits are handed round at intervals, and the music
will cease, and the guests go home exactly at midnight.
There is none of that unhealthy excitement which gives
ladies a fictitious strength, followed by an exhausting
reaction; while, on the other hand, gentlemen are not
tempted to render both their manners and breath
obnoxious, by indulging in stimulants towards the
small hours of the morning. We cannot too highly
recommend this sensible innovation, and hope that a
request for “ the pleasure of your company to a
Cinderella dance,” will soon be a common and welcome
form of invitation in Sydney society.
• • •
tl San Francisco ” Boyd invited the public to
inspect his photos, last week, and hundreds did so.
The rooms were very attractive. Flowers, ferns, fes-
toons, leaves, draperies, and potted plants were on
all sides. Photographs of every size, plain and coloured,
adorned the walls and tables, stood on the floor, filled
flass cases and costly frames—each one a gem. Sir
lenry Parkes is most prominent. We don’t know ex-
actly what size he is, but should think he would be re-
cognisable at a distance of, say, about two miles. On
his left are large crayon pictures of Ex-Mayor Fowler
and Miss Parry, and on his right a Sydney lady and an
American lady. Underneath are large frames of
“ cabinets," with Miss Melrose, as “ Little Nell,” and
Mr. Turner, the central figures. There ore many other
celebrities, and well-known faces. Alice Dunning Lin-
gard, as the “Roman Vestal,” in various postures, has
a frame to herself, as liave also Mr. and Mrs. William-
son, in “ Pinafore ” characters. Miss Annis Montague
in “Mignon," and Miss Stammers, as “Galatea," are
on separate cards. Mr. Boyd is surrounded by some
score of babies on the half-shell. He won’t say whether
they are all his own, or whether some are borrowed
from the neighbours, but there is a distant family re-
semblance visible to any one who can see it. Kowalski,
Ketten, Miss Pomeroy, Miss Amy Horton as “ Ham-
let,” the “only Leon,” our John, and Dr. Vaughan are
all close together. A frame of clouded vignettes is
pretty. The Princes are nearly life size, and quite
plain—that is, not coloured, we mean. In the reception
room, in one corner, is Dr. O’Connor, of Wagga, and
opposite is an American lady, side face, with jaunty hat,
very life-like. Below her are two little girls, coloured,
who might pass for sisters, some six years old. The
upper one is American, the lower is little Miss Geddes.
These are faultless pictures of two lovely children, and
are the gems of the studio. Facing one window is Sir
Patrick Jennings, and facing another are Miss Levy,
and the Hon t*. Higgins. Mr. and Mrs. Harris, Mrs
Blitter, the Hon. Fitzgerald of Melbourne, and the
Misses Manning, are all about life-size ; the latter are
specially good, having a natural expression and easy
pose. Many people expected to see more photographs,
but few were shown of less than cabinet size, and some
were shown last year, '1 he addition of a few hundred
cartes taken during the year would have improved the
show.
• * *
From Elvy. and Co we have received a copy of
the “ Duckenfield Waltz,” composed by Mr. Percy
FitzStubbs, which goose very smoothly when well played.
It is written in tour flats, is nicely printed, and as it
displays more originality of thought that do most
waltzes of the prese it time, we may su ely predict that
it will be very popular-wheu it comes to be well-liked.
A "Valsede Concert,” written b / Mr. F. M’Quade.and
published by W, H. Paling, is a more ambitious attempt
at composition, and consequently may not meet with
such a ready sple at first as Cio Duckonfield waltz, the
difficulties being rather more than an ordinary player
can with case overcome. We do no think, however,
that this should make any difference, because wheu
ordinary players cannot overcome difficulties, they
generally ga straight through them. This piece will be
sure to occupy a prominent place on the music-stand—
if it is put there. The “ Hercules Galop ” is composed
by Mr. Samuel Keesing, and dedicated to Lady Her-
cules Eobinson. If her ladyship has any one particular
weakness, it is, we believe, a fondness for a real lively
galop, and when she has danced to this one a few times
she will no doubt keep it by her, and use no other. The
air is pretty, and as the composer is young, we may hope
for better things from him in future. As, moreover
(judging from the photo, enclosed in the music), Mr.
Keesing, in addition to his sweetly suggestive name, is
also good-looking, he will have many admirers among
the ladies. The piece is published by the Auckland
Music Warehouse, and we ore obliged to say that the
general get-up does not compare well with bydney pub-
lications, though this is partly owing to the coarseness
of the paper.
* * *
A Christchurch paper says that Mr. Nat. Kettle,
who is engaged to Miss Lena, daughter of the late
Major Von Tempsky, has arrrived at that place from
Napier. If the lady is as fair as her father was brave,
Mr. Kettle is to be envied. Von Tempsky commanded
a corps of Free Hangers during the Waikato war, and
was a very demon at fighting. The Maoris dreaded the
Major more than the devil dreads holy water. His
death was heroic. They had been storming a pah, and
a soldier was shot down by the Maoris, who were in the
trees; another rushed out to carry him into shelter, but
was dropped on his body; Von Tempsky, who never
knew fear, then rushed out, and shared the fate of the
men he was trying to save. Von Tempskys are scarce.
# # #
There is a matrimonial agency in Auckland,
N.Z., and as we have had the pleasure of seeing an
application for a wife, and the reply, we hasten to
enlighten less fortunate beings on this interesting and
delicate matter. It is barely three short weeks since
the anxious applicant wrote, “ I wish a wife ; she must
be a lady," &c. He tries to describe her, but, his
descriptive powers failing, he throws himself in a gush
of confidence on the resources of the matrimonial
agent with the comprehensive sentence, “you will
understand." The M.A. does not enclose a wife by
return post, but he sends a long epistle, which com-
mences by informing his client that as “every
precaution has been taken to protect respectable
females from becoming the victims of designing and
unprincipled characters,” he had better not try on any
little games. Having given this timely warning, the
M.A. then does a little honest blowing of his own
trumpet. The total result of his efforts, up to date, has
been the “bringing together of 79 couples," who are
always urging him to “ visit the joyous homes he has
been instrumental in forming.” Pleasant as this must
be, and wishful as he is “to render himself the vehicle
of establishing a happy home,” he nevertheless inti-
mates that on opening a correspondence his patrons
must enclose a preliminary trifle in the shape of £5:
this is not the price of a wife, but is merely a sort of
lubricator to set the matrimonial machine in motion.
According to the M.A.,.there is many a bevy of damsels
waiting to be free-selected, but “how can an out-settler
leave his property to come down and cull one rose from
that blooming garden ? ” Well, we know squatters who
cull their blooming roses from the Sydney garden,
pretty often, and the plan seems to work very well.
But you cannot walk straight into the M.A.’s garden
and pick. Oh I no; the lady must be supplied with full
particulars of your address, age, religion, health,
income, occupation, and a photo. If you are a
widower, you have to state how many children; and if
you are single, it is better to answer the question all
the same. Ladies are curious on these points. If all
is right, then she is trotted out; but all through the
transaction, the M.A. is watching to see that you act
strictly “on the square,” and in closing his epistle, he
just gives a hint of how sultry he can make it for those
who don’t behave, thus : “ They may try it on, but I
defy them to succeed; and if they venture on what I
candidly caution them is dangerous ground, I will show
them up in the columns of the News, so as to make
Auckland a perfect Tophet for them to reside in.”
Keep it up, old man. We think if the matrimonial
agency and the News work well together, they ought
to make a good thing out of it between them.
* * m
A social event which claims general attention
begins upon Monday next, in the Garden Pa'ace, in the
second exhibition of the Art Society of New South
Wales, whose very sensible motto is “ Progress 1"
There were, of course, art societies in Sydney before
this new live thing came into being. There was an oc-
casional half-hour’s work done, followed by six months of
learned disquisition: but it may very safely be said that
until this well-named infant was born, there was in
reality no one to rouse up the workers, and give them
something to do, and the world something to admire.
They are workers in earnest, the men and women of this
society; they may not talk much of “culchaw,” or
wreath their brows with sunflowers, or wear long grey
tasselled cloaks, or faint green bedgowns with mysti-
cal girdles in the streets —hut they do know a good deal
about light and shade upon mountain, and river,
and plain, and flower, and tree, and they can
paint men and women ns they are : and being men and
women themselves, with all the wants and necessities
peculiar to such creatures, they paint that they may
live, and to live they must sell their pictures, and for
this especial purpose do they hold this exhibition. But
knowing that those people who have got sovereigns in
bucketfuls, will not pitch down a liberal handful for a
month’sjhard work, these artists appeal to those whose
sovereigns lie lightly at their pocket ends, but whose
abundant supply of genuine wisdom counterbalances
their lack of the filthy metal. There is an Art Union in
connection with the show, tickets one guinea. Every
purchaser will certainly get his guinea’s worth in a copy
of Mr. Piguenit’s painting “ A Midday Rest,” and he
will have the chance of winning a work of art that will
gladden his eyes until he has to wear glasses. The
show opens on Monday at the Garden Palace. The
tickets for the Art Union should be purchased to-day or
to-morrow. They may be obtained but this is not an
advertisement. However, if you want one, go round by
No. 3 Bridge-street, and if there are none to be had,
look in at Nicholson’s, and then buy one and thank
your luck for the chance,
• • •
Fashion is increasing the number of brides-
maids deemed necessary at a wedding. This tendency
is not likely to meet with strong opposition from the
ladies, to whom scarcely any occasion, except perhaps
their own wedding, is so welcome as that which enables
them to appear to such advantage, and very often at
someone else’s expense. The bridegroom, however, who
has to give a costly present to each fair maid, thinks
that when the number reaches ten, it is getting to bp
too much of a good thing. Is it any wonder that men
won’t “come to the scratch ?”
• * •
“Ye olde Englyshe fayre” is to be introduced
at Melbourne, in December. The first one will most
likely be opened by Bishop Moorhouse, for a charitable
object. HabM is to paint the scenery, everything is to
be in first class style; and as money will not be spared,
and “ big wigs " are to run the affair, it is sure to bo a
success.
* * #
It is just fifty-nine years ago since John Maloney,
a soldier, saved little Princess Victoria from what
might have been a bad accident, or death, when her
pony carriage ran away in Kensington Gardens. He
escorted the frightened child to the Palace, where the
Duchess of Kent gave him her thanks and a guinea.
Maloney is now 82 years old, and has a pension of six-
pence a day. Surely, the “ little Princess Victoria ’
would not require asking twice if she remembered that
occasion, if Maloney could only reach her through a
her official environments.
# # #
It is said the Baroness Burdett-Coutts looks ten
years younger than before she was married. Yes—but
how much older does Ashmead look ?
• * •
Lady Archibald Campbell, at Ascot, wore a
curious costume —a cocked hat of black silk, and short
dress of same material, and a black velvet belt across
the shoulders, embroidered with the Campbell arms.
#, # #
Burke contended that one of the necessary
qualities of beauty must be fragility; but Burke never
saw Miss Jessie Sinclair, who obtained first prize at the
barmaid show, at North Woolwich Gardens, London,
recently, for activity and beauty, as well ns a prize for
beauty at Nottingham and Halifax. Twenty-seven
years old, and weighs thirty stone! “ Handle her ten-
derly, lift her with care.”
* • *
After a wedding, at Burwood, the other day,
the company went and played croquet!
# * *
At Hammersmith, Mary Marshall summoned a
young man for coming up behind, while she had a baby
in her arms, and kissing her; he did it not only once,
but finding it nice, the depraved villain actually repeated
the brutal act. The evidence does not show that she
attempted to put the baby down. It was a very useful
baby that. In reply to the magistrate, the aggrieved
damsel said she would accept reasonable compensation,
so he sent the pair with an officer of the court into the
clerk’s office, to arrange terms. It is needless to say
the terms were soon arrived at, but everybody wondered
wbat the deuce an officer of the court was sent in with
them for.
« * •
It is very selfish for young ladies to wear hats
as large as umbrellas, at church or theatre. It is had
enough when the girls are pretty, but when they are
not, it would do them good to hear some of the remarks
made about them in French translated. For the benefit
of those who are neither pretty nor sensible, it would
be advisable to post a notice at the door of every such
building, “ Hats larger than two feet, not admitted.”
* # •
The English aristocracy are nothing if not moral.
People were rather surprised the other day to hear of
“Drunken Duchesses,” at the Eton and Harrow
match, but the Clinton-Scott imbroglio is even more of
a staggerer. Lord Arthur Clinton (a brother of the
Duke of Newcastle), who was connected with the
notorious Boulton case, married an actress. She left
him, got a divorce, and went to live in Paris with Sir
Claude Scott. Sir Claude died, and bequeathed his
mistress all his money. Hearing this, Lord Arthur, in
a state of virtuous indignation, journeyed to Paris,
bought a revolver, had an interview with his divorced
and faithless wife, and—married her.
* * ♦
The Duke of Argyll is 58, and Mrs. Anson,
whom he is going to marry, is 38. There is much love
on his side, and much money on hers. The Duke is a
little man, with a red head. The lady, a stout woman,
with a black one. Strange ! Marriage is a lottery, and
the colours are the colours of roulette.
* * *
Last week Mr. Alfred Read, teacher of dancing,
was presented with an illuminated address, a largo
coloured photograph of himself, and some cash, by his
pupils and friends. The photo, will be on view at
Hnenerbein’s.
# # #
The annual Oddfellows’ ball, at Maryborough
(Q ), took place in the Town Hall there last Thursday.
About 250 present, and all went well.
# # #
A wedding is shortly to take place at Singleton,
between a young gentleman well known on the hill at
Newcastle and a daughter of a most genial and hospit-
able squatter, who resides in the Patrick’s Plains dis-
trict.
# * *
A Bazaar and Fancy Pair will be held on the
10th proximo, in the West Maitland School of Arts, in
aid of the Sacred Heart College, Maitland. The affair
promises to be a grand success, as Newcastle, Single-
ton, Morpeth, and fiaymond Terrace intend giving their
assistance.
• • •
In America a new square dance is finding
favour. It is called the “ Grecian,” and is something
like the old quadrille, but the dancers do a little mild
posturing, pointing toes and uplifting arms at inter-
vals.
• * *
As a rumour of the revival of crinolines has
reached Sydney, it may be interesting to know that,
in America, a Sun reporter was recently sent round to
investigate the rumour there. He interviewed dress-
makers, fashion journalists, and others, Madame
Demorest said it was nonsense ; it was only the old
hoopskirt manufacturers trying so start the fashion
again, but she would oppose it in her magazine as both
ngly and unhealthy. A leading importer just returned
from Paris said any such revival would be impossible.
A young lady in charge of the horse-hair sxirt and
bustle table at a large shop, said: “We ore astonished
and annoyed that we have been quoted as reporting any
such fashion. Our customers never call for hoops.
They wear horse-hair skirts with a ruffled back breadth.
A few call for small bustles.”
# # *
A breach of promise case was not long ago
compromised in England by the defendant providing
the forlorn damsel he had “ respectfully declined" with
a husband of equal value with himself. Here is an
argument for those who contend that there should be
no legal action in such cases.
mm*
There was great dissatisfaction on H.M.S.
Emerald arriving at Auckland, when the captain re-
fused the crew permission to go ashore, because of scar-
latina. There were only some few oases of the disease,
which is known to be almost entirely a children’s epi-
demic. The officers were allowed to land without
hindrance. Subsequently, in deference to strongly-
expressed public opinion, the seamen were permitted to
go on shore.
* * *
On Monday night, the annual Railway banquet
and ball took place in the Exhibition Building, nearly
500 persons attending. Mr. Bead, Traffic Manager,
occupied the chair at the banquet, supported by Messrs.
Evans and Bichardson. Several Cabinet Ministers who
had been invited sent letters of excuse, which the
chairman read—to the great edification of about six
people who could hear what he said. The majority of
the people didn't care much whether the Ministers
came or not. Only, in their absence, there did not
seem to be anyone else able to say grace for such a
large family, so the “ feed ” had to go on without it.
The tables were laid in the gallery by Compagnoni. and
the banquet was in first-class style. Many more were
present than had been expected by the sale of tickets,
but the caterers were successful in their exertions to
satisfy all. Mr. Bead proposed “The Queen," and
"The Governor,” and after those “sentiments” had
been disposed of, dancing commenced, and lasted till
4. The whole building was available, so that non-
dancers could promenade conveniently on the asphalt
under the galleries without interfering with the dancing
floor. This arrangement gave great satisfaction, and
made the building cooler. The dresses were various.
Gentlemen mostly wore their Sunday-go-to-meetings,
a few had claw-hammers; but smoking caps were quite
de ri/jueur. Ladies’ costumes also ranged over different
styles. There was only one fancy dress, a short one of
green chintz, with scarlet cloak. Some of the con-
spicuous figures were as follow : —A substantial young
lady wore white silk with long train, trimmed with
cardinal, and white wreath. Two dark young ladies,
who rendezvous’d at the fountain, soru silk and
light skirts trimmed with real fern. Another displayed
white satin with gold edging. A brunette was all in
pink, looped with silver cord. A black dress trimmed
with crimson-shaded satin looked well. There was a
white dress trimmed with native roses. The
gayest attire present was one of pale blue and
cardinal satin, blue wreath. The most noticeable
was a low necked one, black satin bodice,
elaborately worked with black and gold beads, and
richly trimmed with golden yellow shaded satins ;
bunches of artificial fruit adorned the shoulders, and
the skirt was long-trained and trimmed with a broad
band of flame-coloured satin. A good dancer was
attired in short white satin with large bunches of
violets affixed, splendid bunch on the breast, and a
white-frosted wreath. A pretty, fair girl had a white
dress with broad band of cardinal on the skirt and
narrow sash of cardinal and silver across the shoulders,
strings of sma'l pearls in the hair, A chocolate silk
with white lace looked nice, as did other dresses of a
less distinctive character. The fountain, decorated
with ferns, kept playing all night, and was a favourite
n sort. The music was by the Permanent Force Band,
and was lively. An unusual item on the programme
was a “ March Waltz" ; and as nobody seemed to know
what it was, and thf music changed every few minutes,
and everybody tried to do the dance in his own par-
ticular (style, the result was mixed. “Le Petit’s”
style at the go-as-you-please would be about the most
suitable for this dance, we should think. The atten-
dants at the cloak rooms were punctiliously careful and
civil, and consequently everybody went home in his
own garments. Messsrs Dale, Shand and Bargiss were
really good as M’s.C. The railway people can score
the ball as a success this year, and a considerable im-
provement on that of last year—mnugre the presence of
political chiefs.
* * #
Mr. Charles Bull, of “ Charleville” has issued
100 invitations for 30th Sept,
• * *
Mr. and Mrs. John Wilson, of “ Winslow,”
North Shore, have issued invitations for the marriage
of their daughter. Miss Nellie Wilson, with Mr A
Minnett, which takes place in October.
• * m
Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Levy, of “ Cahors,” have-
issued invitations for the marriage of their daughter
Miss Bertha Levy, with Mr. Barnett Cohen, in Nov. *
• * *
The bachelors of Cobar entertain 100 guests at a
dance on 13th October.
# # «
A most interesting affair—we believe the first
“ its kind in the colonies—eventuates at Ivanhoe
Park, Manly Beach, on Saturday, when there will
be an exhibition of the indigenous flora of the neigh*
bourhood, followed, in the evening, by a concert.
Notwithstanding that, to quote poor Lindsay Gordon,
we live “In lands where bright blossoms are scentless
and songless bright birds,” the gathering should, on
account of its novelty and its surroundings, be as en-
joyable as it will be fashionable. Kefreshments will be
obtainable on the spot by those who intend staying for
the concert, in which Miss Sachs, Miss Kate Slattery,
the Kev. Dr. Ellis, and Messrs. H. E. Woods, James,
irancis, [Giddy, and Lough, among others, have
promised to take part. The flower show opens at mid-
day j the concert will commence at eight.
VANITY FAIR.
Queen Victoria has issued another edict against
low necked dresses, and her younger female subjects
trunk it really unbearable The way the young beauty
has her hands photographed is by resting her arm upon 4
an upright support, and holding her hand against a
black velvet background According to the Times of
India, the latest exploit of the King of Burmah was
the poisomng of his mother-in-law. His wife having
sent him some choice confections, he sent for her
mother and gave them to her; the result being her
almost immediate death iEst hetieism in England
advances. A brilliant poudre ball was given recently in
honour of of Albany at Bestwood, the seat of
the Duke of St. Alban’s. Prince Leopold appeared as
Louis XV, the Duchess of St. Albans as the Princesse
de Lamballe. Lady Spenser as the Duchess de
Choiseul, Miss Violet Lindsey as Angelica Kanff.
man, and Lady Claud Hamilton as Dresden China...
At Long Branch, a fashionable American wateringl
place, young idiots, not to be outdone by the ladies,
wear piuk-topped gaiters The new Bachelors’ Club,
in London, to which only unmarried men are admitted,
drying to offer consolation to the ladies by bringing
them to luncheon. Prince Leopold, gave a very
pretty lunch there Thus a writer in an
Adelaide paper:—“ I went to St. Vincent’s fancy
dress ball when in Sydney. Strange, but true,
every man that had a terrible pair of legs wore
tights to show his imperfections, while every lady who
had fine black hair dyed it yellow. However, the fair
ones had forgotten to dye their eyelashes ” Papers
announce the approaching marriage of the Duchesse
de Richelieu wifffi Sir Hickman Bacon, the premier
baronet of England. The Duchesse has been a widow
two years, and is the daughter of M. and Madame Heme
Franco-American-German stars in the financial Anna!
ment of Pans, and will inherit a very large fortune
She is a staunch Roman Catholic; Sir Hickman who
is chiefly known in society by the remarkably short
term of his service in the guards, is understood to
lean to extreme Ritualism The State ball in London
terminated in a galop “entirely in honour of the
Americans present, who had expressed theirdonging for
something more lively.” It is thought the fashion thus
set will be followed at private balls during the rest of
the season... A correspondent of the Whitehall Re-
view asks Can you tell me if it is the correct thing
for a lady to lay hold of the lobe of her partner’s ear
vnth, ner teeth when whirling in the giddy waltz ?”
A circlet of plain gold, fastened with some pretty
device, J encircles the throats of some of the most
fashionable London women of the day Prince
William of Prussia, recently married, refused over
3000 wedding presents, and. in fact, published a notice
that he could not receive any, even from friends The
favourite day for marriages in Paris is Saturday!'in the
morning of which there may be seen in the streets
landaus and barouches with white horses, driven with
white reins The great objection evinced by the
Princess of Wales to the indecent fashion of leaving the
arms entirely naked to the shoulder, dispensing with
sleeves altogether, and relying upon the shoulder straps
alone to maintain the bosom of the dress in position
has been met with extreme slevemess by Worth who
has sent over all the dresses made by him for the Court
entertainments at Buckingham Palace, with a trans-
mrent epaulette leading half-way to the elbow It is
ooped on the shoulder with a fibula, either of jewels or
flowers, audit has been named by a great autocrat, a
manene dla hour i. The effect is very light and pretty
seeming to float like wings through the dance, and
suggesting ideas of the coolness of the zephyr The
diamonds of Mrs. Mackay, wife of the American
bonanza king, are pronounced to be one of the wonders
of the age. With sublime indifference does this lady
regard the brooches, the earrings, and the necklaces of
others. She adorns herself with chains of diamonds,
reaching in rows from shoulder to shoulder,
at the waist, then expanding at the hem of her tunic
so that she appears one blaze of fire as she stands
beneath the light of the chandeliers At an English
Dress Reform Association meeting, the other day
Lord Alfred Spencer Churchill was called upon to read’
Miss A. L. Twining’s paper, which, to his consterna-
tion, was against “feeding-bottles," “tight stays”
and “compressing garters.” A monster sapphire,
found in Ceylon, has been sent to London. It is valued
at £14,000.
Produce Report
The Bulletin OflJce, September 28, 1881.
On the whnrees, to-day, prime gretn lucerre was sel-
ling at £3 to £3 5s : ditto .Id hey, £2lss to £3 ; medium
samples, £2 5s to £2 10a per ton. A fair demand
for prime samples Maize, 3s; oats, 2s 6d to 3s per
bushel. Circular Head potatoes £3 15s to £4,- New
Zealand, ditto, £2 to £2 lOsperton. Victorian onions
£l7 to £lB Ditto chaff, £5 per ton, hags inclusive,
Butter, in keg, 9d to is per lb Eggs, lOd per dozen.
Bacon, 4d to (id. Cheese, 5d to Bd. Ham, 6d to 9d.
Honey, 4d to sd. Lard, 4d to sd. Beeswax, 9d to 10d
per lb Millet Brooms, 9s per dozin.
Poultry. Fowls are selling at from 3s 6d to 4s per
pair. Duck 4s to ss. Geese 6s to Bs. Turkeys 7s to
14s, if good.
Fat Cattle.—At the Homebush market, fat cattle
were much firmer, and best beef was worth 25s per
1001 b, and in short supply.
Fat Sheep.—The market yery steady, with a short
supply also. 601 b wethers worth 11s 6d.
Wheat.—There has not been much wheat to hand
during the week. The Victorian and Adelaide markets
are easier. Prices are : For Adelaide wheat 5s 6d to
5s Bd, New South Wales qualities 5s to 5s 7d, Victorian
5s 3d to 5s 6d, New Zealand ss, Launceston 5s 3d per
bushel.
Flour.—'This-market has been well supplied during
the week by arrivals from Victoria. Adelaide, and the
country; prices are firm for good brands at our
quotations. Sydney superfine mill flour, £l3 10s ; house-
hold, £l2 10s; seconds, £ll 10s per ton; N.S.W.
country brands, £l3 5s to £l3 10s ; Victorian , £l2
10s to £l3 10s ; Adelaide, £l3 5s to £l3 15s per ton-
Bran and pollard. Is 44 per bushel.
The Medical profession order Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence because it contains more nutritions and flesh-
forming elements than any other beveiidge, and is
preferab'e to be very thick starchy cocoa ordinarily
sold. When yon ask for Cadbury’s Cocoa Essence, be
sure that yon get it, as storekeepers often push imi-
tations for the sake of extra profit.—Any.
Many a man has made his fortune by a good
fire. But we know of only one class of tradesmen who
can perform that feat honestly, and that is safe-
makers. Mr. Wearne, of this city, fire-proof safe-
maker, has been lucky enough to have one of his
manufacture in the conflagration on Sunday night, at
Tillock and Co.’s. If he had made bad safe®, it would
have been an evil day for Wearne; but as we h< ar that
the books and papers contained in the chest were in a
perfect state of preservation, we may venture to con-
gratulate Mr Wearne, and wish him a merry conflagra-
tion at his own place, and many of them.


SINGER'S SEWING
THE
8
ingee manufactue:
Have opened a Dep
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DA]
HARBOUR STR:
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sei
s
INGEE’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLI
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Write tor address of nei
s
INGEE’S, THE BEST I
Have received 160 First P
s
s
INGEE’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for <
INGEE’S, BEST FOE
SINGER’S MEDIUM MAGI
S
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. v
8
INGEE’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 M
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOB
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
8
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OR TREAI
8
INGEE’S. The BEST. Th<
MACHINE—Light to Work,
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6<
SINGER’S, THE BEST
LEARN. New Improvement
INGEE’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
8
uxurrin o, inn uuoi a
Sew finest muslins and h<
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
8
INGEE’S THE BEST an All
Will last a lifetime in oo
8
INGEE’S SEWING
ADDRESS: TI
S INGEE MANUPACTUEi:
No, 1 DARLING STORES. Hai
8
INGEE’S SEWING
TUENEE & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANE
TIME paymbn:
■2b. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. pea - week
And NO INTEREST cl
10 per oent. off for <
BEWARE OF IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
TURNER &
Opposite
ITAETLING ANNO
To be Published, SATURDA’
“SYDNEY BY N]
Bt a Bohemian
A book full of Engrossing Stories
lations of the Dark Dens and D
Sydney; Graphic Descriptions c
Crime and Cruelty; Amuting inch
the whole forming a publication of
and one which the publishers feel
way into every Home Circle thrc
mPRiCB, Sixpence! Published b;
lishing Co., at 154 Bridge-st., Syi
runners and booksellers will be supp
T
HEA T R E
Lessee
Treasurer.
M
15th Week of 1
LONDON OPERA COMK
TO-NIGHT,
And every evening' until f
MADAME PAY.
Admission—6s, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle
chased during the day at H. Solti
King-street.
It
ACCABE.—SOHOO
EVERY EVEN I
FOURTH WEEK
UNEQUIVOCAL 8U(
FREDERIC MAC(
In his Universally Ropular
“BEGONE DULL
conceded on all sjdes to bo the
BRILLIANT, and MIRTHFUL
presented to the public.
M.ACCABE.— DAY El
SPECIAL NOT]
In compliance with the requel
of families who reside at a dista
avoid the crowds that attend the
tiou of
Mr. FREDERIC MACC
POPULAR ENTERT
the management begs "most reap
that a Grand MORNING PEI
“BEGONE DULL(
will be given o
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8.
In consequence of the SUCCESS
ENTERTAINMENT, seats shov
days in advance, at Mr. W. H. £
George-street.
Admission—Fauteuils (numbere
rst seats, 35.; second seats, 25.; ■
pen at 7.30, commence at 8.
Business Manager, Mr. F. E. Hi
0 O M E D Y C <
ADDRESS :
Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN PALMER,
Great Success as Grandfather and
and
MRS. W.
ON TOUR.
ADDRESS:
Hobart, October 1
New Zealand to fol
MPORTANT
PIRATES of PENZ.
H.M.S. PINAFO
PATIENCE.
By Messrs. Gilbert and
BILLEE TAYL(
By Messrs. Stephens an
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON is tl
the Australian colonies, Tasmanit
of the above comic operas. Propri
lessees of Theatres, Concert Halls
sons, whether professionals or am
warned that the unauthorized prt
operas, or any portion of the wor
renders all concerned therein liabl
and damages, which will, in eve
enforced.
For information, aj
MACDONALD’S International
64 SWANBTON STREET, IV
General Agent for Mr. W
LYNCH A MACDONALD, Solicit
Collins-stroet, Melbe
rjl H E A V 1
RECREATION AND PIC-NJ
OF THB
LANE COVE RID
Steamers leave Lime-street Wha
street, daily, as per Tin
THE LARGEST RECREATION
Sydney, with moat beautiful So
SWINGS, SEE-SAWS, CRICKET,
A SPLENDID PAVILION FOI
BAND MUSIC, and SPECIA
every Saturday and H
Admittance on above days, inolu
per Steamers, Is. 6d.; Children unc
Admittance on other days, Is.; Chi
Tickets to be shown at the Entrai
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTL
these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or '
” ■ the ruling principles at the
PALACE BMPO
HATMARKET (ONLY)
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES i
the soundness of those principles upon which their business :
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PAL
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. W
OUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SU
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A 1
BEAUTIFUL
SATINS, CASH-
IMERE, BEIGE, &c.
'DRESSMAKING.
MANCHESTER
[GOODS.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
LADIES & CHILDREN
MANTLES. COS-
TUMES. MILLI-
NERY, *0.
“FANCY" GOODS.
YOUTHS* and MEN'S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ONLY ONE ADDRESS
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an immens
and la lOd per yard. Of the truly splendid JAU
there are 2000 yards at 2a per yard ; 2200 at 2s 3d
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3 cases, the
10s6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GROS GR(
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s 6d, 4s 3d,
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are beauty
it will be long before you forget them. There is
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 22d per y
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH BEIGE,
yard. There is the fashionable SARATOGA (
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, remarkabl
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAKING D
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly and yet <
There are CALICOES in all makes and at lo;
FIGURED from 5*d; TABLE DAMASK from
all prices, and COTTON DIAPER at6d; GREY
Is 3d ; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ranging fro
from lOd up to Is 9d. There are TURKISH
HONEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED, 5s 9d;
and the “RENOWNED VELVET PILE,” 24s, m
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The goods a
ANTHONY HORDERN I
THE PALACE EM
HAYM A R K
(ONLY,)
SYDNEY.
HAVE YOU BEEN TO
A. J. HUFTO
NEW ESTABLI
638 GEORGE STREET


MOST PLEASANT
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTEE AND PAREY'S NEW EXTEACT
OF SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
best disinfectants.
(MADE PUEELY FEOM INDIGENOUS
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pleasing smell, will not injure the most deli-
cate hands, is the greatest time-saving of
labour, rendering any article cleansed there-
with of the purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOUBD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DEEECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grecers and Storekeepers through-
out the Colony, and at the
WOEKS, 700 GEOEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
D
I
S
I
N
F
E
C
T
A
N
T
i
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, &c.
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES.
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address—
You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings. /
Hi
W. KERR
MANUFACTUEING JEWELLEE,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKEE,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
every description, Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTEE!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
w.
KING
STREET
SYDNE
JAILOR ||
tk
°0
i
biplicE
POST OFFICE.
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
TO ORDERr^H
FIT GUARANTEED!
fill HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
Band p. w. mason,
• DEAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engbaybbs on Wood,
LAND, ASSUKANCE, AND GENEEAL AGENTS.
All matters carried oat promptly. Flans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STEEET (near King-at.
QL I P FOED, LOYE, AND CO.
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are'in
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. ~ Nos. 1 and 2.
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Black
OFFICES 79 YORK STREET
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
JOHN DANES,.
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
235
PITT STREET SYDNEY
•wm ' " vV
OR
AUWOOL
oiago^.
Tp TWEED
T
RE
I6s6cf.
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
B&Ss.
OUT LENGTHS
ATWHOLESALE PRICES.
SfIOOPATTERNS'°CHOOSE FROM
hlsummerfieid
PITTSTSYDNEY.
PATTERNS
AND GUIDE TO SELF MEASUREMENT,
SENT, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E. GREER AND CO.’S
PRIZE
ALBURY WINES.
Red Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
White Whies
Reisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS s
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
The Terms of subscription for The Bulletin are—in
advance, per annum, 125.; half-year, 65.; quarterly,
35.; booked, 6d. per quarter extra Remittances may
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N.Z.,
or by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S W.
SYDNEY : Printed by H. R. Woods & Co., and pub-
lished by W, H. Traill & Co. at the Bulletin
Office, 24 Pitt-street.
MARTIN & PAIN.
389 QEOBQE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
HORNS® v
Steel S tripper
We sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year,
and every purchaser has sent us as good a testimonial as
it is possible to write.
COPIES OF THESE TESTIMONIALS POSTED TO EVERY ENQUIRER.
FARMERS see the lIOIINSBY
BEFORE ORDERING ANY OTHER.
A Few Reasons Why Farmers Should Buy
—| THE WOODS
String Binder:
It Won the Highest Honours at
Sydney, Melbourne, & Adelaide Exhibitions.
It Won every important Field Trial
in the Colonies during 1880.
ALL OUR MACHINES ARE BUILT TO OUR OWN
SPECIFICATIONS AND WE CAN JUSTLY CLAIM THEM
The Simplest THE BEST The Strongest
OUR WOODS STRING BINDERS )
Are entirely Self-acting ;
Deliver the sheaves all one size ;
Only require a boy to drive.
THEY ARE i Wrought Iron Road Wheels,
BUILT Wrought Iron Finger Bar,
WITH ( Steel Plated Fingers.
Sole Agents, MARTIN & PAIN,
389 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY.
Ss§2-
rjIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ARE IN EVERY WA Y COMPLETE.
TRY ONE. FoB '
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR - CUTTING,
SYDNEY STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
And Ornamental Hair Work,
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
PRIZE
WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
DINNER WINES 10/- per dozen.
SHIRAZ 1 Fruity ) u/
MADEIRA j Wines i l ' " ”
BURGUNDY'
RIESLING
r -> Dry > 2l/
j Wines j 2l '
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
Ac., Ac.
;VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
FRUITY WINES
6/-
PER GALLON.
TURN OVER A NEW LEAF!
ASK FOR THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIATION’S
PURE INDIAN TEAS.
1 [SEE THATi’YOU ARE SUPPLIED WITH THEM. DON’T BE PREVAILED UPON TO
;take:any other tea.
IF YOU CANNOT BE SUPPLIED [IN ONE BTORE*ITRT ANOTHER .
Messrs. Newbery and Dnnn, the Government analytical chemhts.renort August3lst.
1881. Report on three samples of Indian Tea received from THE CALCUTTA TEA ASSOCIA-
eport on tnree samples oi inuiau - - --
DION: The above samples have been carefully examined by us. They are ABSOLUTELY PUKE,
ind we may add that even the lowest quality of your Tea has a higher extract than any Packet Teas
ve have examined ; J. Cosmo Newbery, Frederick Dunn.
Onr LOWEST PRICED Teas, at 2s 6d, are thus pronounced by the best authority procurable in
Australia, to be superior in PURITY, STRENGTH, and ANALYSIS to any other Packet Teas
Our Teas are warranted to go twice as far as Chinese Teas. Yon best study economy, therefore, by
US Everv inducement is given to the Merchants and Storekeepers throughout the Colonies to keep onr
Teas in stock, but should customers not be able to obtain them from their regular grocer, they can
purchase at our Wholesale Warehouses, Sydney and Melbourne, any quantity, from a half-pound up-
W Those living at a distance can have sent direct from the Sydney or Melbourne Wholesale Warehouses
any quantity, from 101 b. weight upwards ; freight and carriage free to the nearest port or railway station
on receipt of bank draft or post office order, made payable to the Calcutta Tea Association or
3r< OUR TEAS ARE PACKED IN |lb and 11b PACKETS; 51b, 101 b, AND 251 b TIN CANIS-
TERS ; QUARTER-CHESTS IN LEAD OF 251 b. HALF-CHESTS IN LEAD OF 401 b
AND UPWARDS. , . ... , . . „
The Teas sent by us are of three prices, and are sold in any of the above size packages at 2s 6d, 3s,
ind 3s 6d per pound. Sibthorp’s Mixture at 3s 6d per pound in packages, of not less than 101 b and
ap to half-chests. WAB , EH OUSES: 28 CHARLOTTE PLACE.
CALL AND SAMPLE.
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONES.
THESE INSTRUMENTS, combining Edison’s most recent improvements, are now acknowledged to be the most
perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of workmanship, elegance of design, and non-
liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
THE EDISON-BELL TELEPHONE
Has been adopted for the Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane Telephone Exchanges, and by numberless commercial
houses throughout the Colonies.
Telephones without batteries, (with magnetic calls) to speak over any distance, for country use, guaranteed to
give satisfactory results.
H. H. KINGSBURY,
SOLE AGENT,
6 Market Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
