

THE BULLETIN
VoL 6.—No. 67.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MAY 7, 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 7, 1881.
Free-trade v. Chinese.
Notwithstanding Mr. George H. Reid’s
creditably smart rejoinder, it is quite clear <that
Mr. David Buchanan had the professors of
Free-trade on the hip with respect to the exclusion
of Chinese. Free-trade is, in New South Wales, a
popular catchword just now, just in the same way
that Protection is in Victoria. The majority of
the people who fling up their hats at the sound of
the words in each colony know precious little
about the principles they profess to endorse. In
Victoria, any ambitious man who aims at a public
career declares for Protection as a first step
towards his object; and it is reasonable to believe
that so long as Free-trade is the prevailing theory
among the people of New South Wales, persons
with similar views will place it in their political
programme. This description does not, of course,
apply to Mr. Reid, who is entitled to the credit of
having fairly thought out the rival theories, and
adopted from conviction the one which appeared
to his mind convincing. But it is a matter of
common knowledge that among the apostles of
Free-trade in public stations there are more men
who are incapable of sounding the depths of so
abstruse a science as political economy than there
are of men who have the intellect for such a dive
into philosophy. With many it is but calculating
acquiescence in the cant cry of the day which
stands for conviction. Consistency is not to be
looked for in such men, and Mr. Buchanan
should be the last to expect it. At the same time
Mr. Reid is not entitled to regard Mr. Bucha-
nan’s general inconsistency as a weapon to be used
against him in this fight. To be converted from
one belief to another is one thing; to hold fast
professedly to a belief and yet contravene its essen-
tials is quite another. In this matter of excluding
the Chinese, the Free-traders are demonstrably in
the latter position. Their economical creed has a
more universal scope than at present suits them
to avow. The conception of Free-trade is based
upon broad abstract principles into which race
distinctions do not enter. The reasonings of
Adam Smith, Ricardo, and Mill are founded
upon ideas of universal advantage. Their doctrine
of Free-trade is not a nostrum for a nation or a
race. It is a specific for all mankind. It was not
the Briton that alone was to be benefited by the
preaching of the gospel of Free-trade. It was not
the Caucasian races. That economic gospel, like
the moral Gospel which preceded it by eighteen
hundred years, was a gift to all mankind. Free-
trade recognised no Gentiles. Its highest claim
upon humanity was that its tendency was
to break down the wall of separation between
nation and nation, race and race, and make com-
merce an instrument of mutual advantage and
mutual goodwill. “Go ye forth and preach the
Gospel to all nations” might fitly have been said
to the propounder of Free-trade. The trouble is
that enthusiasm for the beauties of a creed,
religious or economic, carries some people away.
These overshoot the mark, and become oblivious of
the fact that great principles can seldom be exactly
practised. The grander, the truer, the more
radical the conception of a great mind, the longer
must be the term before mankind in general can
arrive at the elevation which shall enable them to
appreciate and to practise it. The Rev. Mr
Beown, missionary to the heathen, showed prac-
tically and peremptorily that even a minister of
the Gospel may find the mild morality of
Christianity unworkable when thoroughly
antagonistic people have to be dealt with. In lieu
of turning his cheek to the smiter, he carried
slaughter and devastation into their midst, and
all Evangelical Christianity either held its tongue
or said something equivalent to “Well done, thou
good and faithful servant.” To be Christian
under the circumstances would have been grand,
uo doubt, but it would have been superhuman. It
would have been to fold the submissive hands
and await the murderer’s blow, saying “ Not my
will, but thine, be done.” We do not blame Mr.
Brown foT being human. What is censurable
is the hypocritical pretence by his sympathizers
that his exploit could be reconciled with his prin-
ciples, that when he saved his life and the lives of
others, he did not do so at the expense of
consistency. Similarly, we do not blame Mr,
Reid and his brother Free-traders for putting
their principles in their pockets when con-
fronted by the peril of their country. But
they have no right to confuse the public in-
telligence, and, to suit their own self-love, jumble
up right and wrong, truth and falsity. Free-trade
in the abstract admits of no protection. The
present partial inapplicability of the principle lies
in the fact that the world is not ready for universal
brotherhood and uncompromising adherence to
free intercourse. Free-trade is, like Honesty, the
best policy. But every man of the world knows
that the open candour and rigidly direct dealing
which constitutes honesty would, if employed
when dealing with rogues, or with average man-
kind which contains a considerable percentage of
rascality, lead to inevitable disaster, and defeat
its own good by making roguery triumphant,
powerful, and commanding. Of Christianity,
the brotherhood of mankind is an essential
and vital principle. Of Free-trade absolute
freedom of labour to choose its location
and work out its aims is an essential and
vital principle also. But, just yet, these principles
won’t work in all cases. This is, however, no
reason why Christiana and Free-traders, when
compelled by the stern logic of necessity to go
back upon their theories for an occasion, should
blink the truth. No good ever came out of self-
deception. The world will not be made the better
by being deluded with shams. The hard fact is
that, in this colony, national and race sentiments
are more powerful than any abstract ideal. The
people are determined to live and to preserve
their national habits and characteristics. They will
shed blood sooner than be reduced to misery by
the competition of aliens, repugnant alike in
person, in habits, and in sympathies. And our
people are quite right. Self-preservation is the
first law of nature. There should be no need for
pretences of consistency. There should be none
for humbugging the public. Exceptional eases
call for exceptional remedies. It is nonsense to
talk about consistency in Free-trade, when the
urgent need of the hour is pronounced Protection
of our hearths and homes, our systems of living,
and very daily bread.
The Memory of the Dead.
That antique aphorism, Ars est longa, vita brevis
—art is long, life short—is only true in a limited
sense. The achievements of genius may be “few
and far between but in so far as they are the
genuine outcome of the soul, they should be held
in esteem, and guarded as incentivea to a noble
emulation—a refined ambition. That country
loses a magnificent moral lesson which neglects to
honour the memory of those who in their day
promoted the purification of human affections or
the elevation of the soul. There is a tribute due
to genius and worth, which should be discharged
as much to stimulate the living as to honour the
dead. The recognition of success is an expression
of public gratitude—the truest word ever syllabled
by “ the tongue of good report,” for know we not
from poet Willis
“ There’s a deathless name—
A spirit that the smothering vault shall spurn,
And, like a stedfast planet, mount and bum."
How far has this portion of the Australian public
which we chiefly address honored its distinguished
dead ? With almost heartless neglect! Let us
take an instance. There came to these shores,
some thirty years ago, a young Englishwoman, a
vocalist, who had already made a reputation in
England and Italy. She was for years a pupil of
the Eoyal Academy of Music (London), and one of
its most successful students in her own line.
When she came to Australia, she electrified or
fascinated tens of thousands by the grandeur or
the pathos of her magnificent contralto voice. In
oratorio, in opera, at sacred and secular concerts,
hearts thrilled to ecstasy, or quivered with tender
emotion, at the rich roll of those billows of song
that swept from out that gifted woman’s throat.
She made hardened men and cranky women weep
with her “ Old Arm-chair,” and she subdued the
young and passionate with the delicious sugges-
tions of “By the Sad Sea Waves.” This gifted
woman died about a dozen years ago,and her mortal
remains lie down there in the cemetery
at Devonshire-street, without a stone to
mark her last resting place. We are writing about
the ignominious neglect of the public towards
Saba Flower. Lot this slur remain no longer
on the public honour. A hundred pounds—
two thousand shillings—will suffice to pro-
cure a monument somewhat worthy of
a grateful people for this singularly great
woman. Let two thousand people pay
their shilling each (which we are willing to
receive for the purpose), and meet honour will be
done to the memory of one of God’s most gifted
creatures.
The “Vested Interest” Men.
When the widening of Oxford-street, to meet
the exigencies of the tram, was first mooted, a
certain prominent and influential property-owner
attended a public meeting, and spoke warmly in
favor of the general scheme. It subsequently
transpired, however, that the side to be taken back
did not embrace his extensive frontage, and con-
sequently that in the compensation scramble
he would have no claim. Our property-owner at
once changed his tactics, opposed the scheme, and
now lends the weight of his influence in the other
direction. It is considered likely that his party
will carry the day, and make the public at large,
who would be as content to travel along an im-
proved and widened Goulburn-street as to traverse
an equally enticing Oxford-street, provided they
lost no time by their preference to either) —pay the
piper. Here again the übiquitous vested proprie-
tary and moral —highly moral! —interests block
the way. Such an evil is to some 'extent a
necessary one, and is all the more noticeable in a
young community. But still nothing is done to
check the growth of these excrescences on our
social system. The course of our legislation rather
tends to their propagation than otherwise. Still
worse are the evils that may be pointed to as their
outcome—first among which must rank that huge
abortion, our land law, which defeats its avowed
object, pleasing nobody but the speculator, and
which cannot be altered, owing to the political
power of those interested in the status quo. But
there is yet another evil, caused by the holders of
a vested moral interest in an existing state of
things doing their level best to keep their circle
complete, even at nncomputable risk. This is the
sort of thing which pitchforks an incapable into a
responsible position, in order to preserve the
ring unbroken, though his work be “ scamped,”
and his incapacity and neglect of duty invite
detection. Tammany rules the Town Hall.
THE HON. S. D. GORDON, M.L.C.


He Has It!
Heaven be praised, there is some humbug left in
the world yet! Our Exhibition gold medal was
sent to the old man who does the public posturing
for Germany — William, his name is. And this
is the way we know he has condescended to appro-
priate it. William tells Bismarck, Bismarck
tells Munster, who acts as agent for him in
London, Munster tells Granville, Granville
tells Kimberley, Kimberley writes Loftus,
Loftus informs Parkes, Parkes sets in motion
the unknown underlings who supply “ copy” for
the Government Gazette. The Gazette
prints, and the sub-editors of the papers that
people read, clip. And so the good folks here
who paid for the bauble learn that “ His Majesty
the Emperor and King, my (Munster’s) most
gracious master, on the representation made in
the matter, has been pleased to accept the medal.”
Shade of Cromwell ! Think of our agony if the
old chap had refused.
“The Aurora.”
Oh, for one glimpse of the heaven-inspired art
of Maudlb ! Oh, for one hour of the genius of
Postlethwaite ! Oh, for one touch, one life-
giving glimmer of divine aesthetics, to lighten up
the darkness of our prosaic, money-cursed exis-
tence ! But why repine ? why envy our kindred
for what they are so deeply fortunate in possessing ?
For the gem is, peradventure, even now emplanted
in our midst, which may one day amplify into a
fair and grateful growth. True, we have not
Maudle. But have we not Parkes ? With a
sound artistic taste early acquired in the manu-
facture of toys, what better teacher in aesthetics
could we wish ? With such a guide to lead us—
one, too, having unlimited credit—we need never
despair of reaching the divinest pitch. What if
the drains are foul, and the harbour unsavory?
Can we not apply the handkerchief, and gaze up
in the midst of the fetor at the Aurora Vase until
the afflatus kills the material sense and carries ns
away into Nirwana ? What if our roads are few,
and our bridges fewer ! Still we have jars and
pots, rare and costly, and what are roads and
bridges to them ? Then let us rather rejoice than
despair, for under the shadow of Parkes the
dawn of the aesthetic age approaches.
Saints and Sinners.
Alderman J. D. Young stigmatized the Town
Hall swindlers as “ san jtimonioua vagabonds,”
affirming that he would not like to go to the next
world with such “saintly scoundrels;” and the
Herald is wroth with the Alderman for his out-
spokenness, and declares that these assertions
“ have nothing whatever to do with the matter.”
We are not surprised that the Herald should wish
to shield “ saintliness ” and “ sanctimoniousness ”
from admixture with swindling, for it is mainly
due to its influence in the Press that swindling
sanctimoniousness has become so rife in this com-
munity. Had the leading paper of the colony
adopted a more manly course in the past; had it
treated citizens on their merits as men, instead of
on their outward aspect as “ saintshad it been
as anxious to foster organizations of a useful
secular character, as to pander to the pride of
every “Little Bethel;” had labour councils and
literary gatherings received half the attention at
its editorial hands accorded to tea-and-muffin
“abominations” and. hallelujah cat-a-wauling—
fraud would have found it less profitable to be
religious, and people would have been judged by
their actions rather than by their snuffling church
pretensions.
A Monarch’s Thanks.
The detailed account to hand of the execution
of the Czar is quite as interesting as descriptions
of such solemnities generally are. When the first
bomb exploded without injury to himself, and only
killed a Cossack or so, the natural profanity which
in monarchs passes for piety, impelled the Emperor
to say, in reply to an inquiry whether he was hurt,
“No, thank God, I am not,” thus shoving the
responsibility of the slaughter, in his stead, of
innocent persons, upon the Almighty. It would
have been interesting to learn what the Czar
would have had to say about his Maker had he
been aware that the next bomb was destined to
smash him up. If the failure of the first was a
Providential interposition, it obviously followed
that the signal success of the second was likewise
Providentially ordained. The incident should
have some influence in restraining that class of
overconfident persons who regard every occurrence
which pleases them as due to deferential attention
of their Creator, and every unwelcome event as
attributable to the influence of Satan. That
theory is obviously unworkable in this particular
instance. To apply it would be to admit that
the Devil got the upper hand in a regular stand-
up fight for the Lord’s anointed. It maybe ob-
served as worth a passing reference that the Czar’s
right hand was greatly injured, and his marriage
ring was broken into pieces which were driven
into the flesh. Speculation will naturally inquire
which marriage that particular ring was associated
with. But it matters little which. Its utter
smash and the laceration it inflicted were appro-
priate in any case, and conveyed a sort of moral
intimation which seems to favor the view that
when the Czar thanked God, his blasphemy was
premature.
Tammany at Melbourne.
Rumours are about of the most portentous kind.
From what one hears there his been a little
“ ring ” in Melbourne, bearing a sort of family re-
semblance to the far-famed “ Tammany.” This,
at least, we know, that a certain high official in
the G. P. 0. asserts, and brings forth many docu-
ments to prove, that a certain firm has been mak-
ing something like <£20,000 a year for four years
out of the Government. This, of course, other
high and mighty officials knew all about, and the
game went merrily on. The firm bought station
property, not only in Victoria, but in the other
colonies, and the son of one of the amicable
officials has for some time been installed in one of
these princely estates, where he walketh about as
becometh a lord among men. Another high official
who was in the “swim” has shuffled off this
mortal coil and his monumental tombstone records
his virtues, but there is nothing said on the sub-
ject of mail contracts. Now it is all to come out,
in fact has come out, owing to the timely disco-
veries of official number one. The whole affair has
been laid before the Minister, who, after the man-
ner of Berryite Ministers, will lay it before his
mistress — The Age. There has actually been
effected a saving of i!27,000 in the mail tenders
for the next three years. Need it be said that
these officials, like Ha-nlet, “ speak daggers ”
whenever they meet in the postal corridors P
Hair-Splitting Shibboleths.
The frenzy among the Westminster Confessing
people over the case of the Rev C. Strong is yet
another proof that the Gospel of the unco-orthodox
is in no sense glad tidings. As delivered by the
creed-tied it begets no other desire in the average
hearer than the perhaps insane one of punching
the preacher’s head. And why P Because preach-
ing has become a trade. Dogma doled out at so
much a ream or hour cannot teach. As Emerson
says:—“The Spirit only can teach. Not any
profane man, not any sensual man, not any liar,
not any slave can teach.” Yet it is just these
who, that they may live sleekly and go velvet-
footed along the narrow way that leads them to
presentations and good things, babble from the
majority of pulpits publishing what they call
doctrines —in other words, unintelligible theology
wrapped up in a phraseology of rant and cant.
The profane man who talks of the Moat High
God with familiar insolence; the sensual man who
perspires freely at tea-fights for the love of God
—his god, to wit, his belly—the liar who calls
upon Heaven to witness his faith in a confession
composed of theological quibbles; the slave to the
fetish of his own little sect—these men may be
outwardly prospering for the nonce, but thank
God they are digging the grave of Superstitious
Religion just as assuredly as that God’s mercy is
over all His works, despite the puny thunderbolts
which they pretend to hurl in His name against
those who decline to utter their shibboleths. True
Religion teaches man to make the life that now is
subservient to the good of his kind. False Re-
ligion introduces the hocus pocus unknowable for
the good of the Priestly order —an order ever ready
with prayer or curse or bless ing, but as averse as
the Spanish priest in the story to part with its
“ reals ”in the cause of public charity. To quote
Emerson again ; —“ The man who aims to speak
as synods use and interest commands —let him
hush! ”
Negative State Aid to Religion.
Here is a straight question to which any intelli-
gent taxpayer in the colony has a perfect right to
demand a plain straightforward answer. In the
imposition of municipal taxes why does the law
make an exception in favour of church property ?
To us, we candidly confess, this is what Mr.
Swiveller would call ‘an unmitigated staggerer.’
In a country which professes to have entirely
abolished the granting of State aid to religion wo
have to face a huge anomaly arising ont of the law
compelling municipalities to subsidize all churches
within their bounds—which is practically the effect
of its allowing them an exemption from paying
their just share of local taxation. If assessed ac-
cording to its value and equitably rated, the
church property of Sydney alone would yield many
hundreds of pounds per annum to the civic revenue,
and the law which compels the Council to remit
this money in favour of the cathedrals, churches,
chapels, meeting houses and little bethels of the
city is simply subsidizing them to the extent of
the payments they would have to make were they
placed on the same footing as other establish-
ments. Why should the Bishop, who can drive
through the streets with a carriage and pair of
thoroughbreds, not have his establishment
equitably taxed to maintain those streets
as well as the cobbler who is obliged
to go to and from his work on foot?
And furthermore, if the cobbler happens to
belong to that Universal Church whose members
worship in Heaven’s blue vault, has he not some
cause to be dissatisfied at having to pay taxes for
the benefit of my Lord Bishop’s Church, while my
Lord Bishop pays nothing for the benefit of his
shop ? The principle of the thing cannot fail to be
highly distasteful to him, for if he happens to be a
reasoning man and forces the thing to its ultimate
issue, the same kind of logic which would oblige
him to construct streets gratis for my Lord Bishop
to drive his carriage along would oblige him to
make boots gratis for his Lordship’s feet, and also
for the whole host of clerical small-fry whose
various churches are located throughout the city.
And yet, on looking more closely into this
question, it becomes evident that all the churches
are not equally favoured; there thus appears to
be an anomaly within an anomaly. When
on a recent celebrated occasion Sir Henry
Parkes, Dr. M'Gibbon, and Frank Warden
(by the way, we haven’t seen Frank lately) joined
together to prevent the “ collapse of Christianity”
the virtuous trio drew a distinction between the
proposed astronomical lecture of Mr. Proctor
and the regular Sunday evening lecture of Mr.
Charles Bright. They had to argue (to bring
themselves ©ut of the dilemma) that the one was a
mere scientific discourse, and the other a religions
service. Now, if Mr. Bright conducts a religious
service every Sunday evening in the Theatre Royal
then the Theatre Royal is a church, and why
should Mr. Bright’s Church be taxed while
Archbishop Vaughan’s or Pastor Allen’s
Church goes scot free? Why is one building
ruled to be a church, and yet taxed, while other
buildings are not taxed simply because they are
churches? This decidedly wants remedying, and
the only way to remedy it is at once to place all
men, clerical and lay, upon the same footing as
honest taxpaying citizens.
Beautiful Portia.
Strangely enough, the papers, “Will Honey-
comb’s ” excepted, have had little to say about
the finale of the Dubbo shooting case, in which
the handsome Mrs. Wilkie put an end to her
lover, the unfortunate Mr. Norton, P.M. Even
in face of the lip-closing Latin proverb, it may
be remarked that though the victim of
Woman, allied to the serpent—
Of beauty with venom combin'd
was, morally speaking, to blame for maintaining
such a liaison, Mrs. Wilkie was no more justified
in shooting Mr. Norton because charged by him
with what mistresses call unfaithfulness than
would a wife have been had she shot her husband
under similar circumstances. This fact is evident,
and hardly needs demonstration. But, further,
Mrs. Wilkie's act cannot even be said to have
come within the category of what the law, in
dealing with homicide by the sterner sex, re-
cognises as manslaughter. “If you say that
again, Jack,” she exclaimed, ‘ I’ll shoot
you!” And she kept her word. Here was
evidence of premeditation. Suppose the
case had been reversed —suppose that kind,
generous Norton, who loved “ not wisely but too
well,” had killed his fascinating paramour, what
would have been the result ? The world, taught
by the experience of a hundred divorce cases
brought by husband against wife, knows. Mr.
Norton, almost beyond a doubt, would have been
convicted by the jury of murder, and sentenced to
death —though, possibly, the extreme penalty
would not have been carried out. The fact that
he had lived with a woman who was not his wife
would, in the eyes of a large section of the
community, have strongly prejudiced his
claims to mercy. No judge in this colony would
have sentenced Mr. Norton had he been convicted
of the manslaughter of Mrs. Wilkie, to only three
and a half years’ imprisonment. To be generous
to woman, the weaker vessel, may be just; but
such justice is not even-handed. In Australia, at
least, it may paradoxically be remarked that the
“ blind goddess ” of Justice is a god and has eyes
—for a pretty girl. We suppose it can’t be
helped.
The Status Quo.
Ir it requires a surgical operation to get a joke
into a Scotchman’s head, we presume that at least
a ton of dynamite would be needed to blast in
an Englishman’s stolidity a hole big enough to
secure admittance for the conception of a radical
reform being necessary in any right-down British
institution. With those who hold convulsively by
the moral excellence of the British Institution,
because it is British, the free-holder is the man of
men to be entrusted with the electoral suffrage.
The free-holder represents the enlightened morality
of the universe—and he alone ! Now it is some-
what odd that the more representative power you
give to the freeholder, the more corrupt is the
body he returns to represent him. As a local il-
lustration of our proposition, take the Corporation
of Sydney. Its electoral basis is practically the
freeholder. And what is the result ? A shameless
state of things—when the majority of aldermen
and their (by them) protected officials feather
their nests by the drudgery of conscience—
Wink at each other’s crimes and look for fame.
In what would tinge a cobbler’s cheek with shame.
By widening the municipal suffrage, legislation
would effect a practical reform ; but, alas! the
legislative powers of the country are to-day bound
hand and foot in thrall to a coalition, whose chiefs,
as regards all matters demanding incisive reform,
maintain the status quo for the beautifully simple
reason that the status quo, and that alone, main-
tains them in the position of being able to mis-
govern the State.
The Truth about Bradlaugh.
It is a bad thing, doubtless, that Charles
Bradlaugh is an atheist, but it is well that he is
not also a liar. If he does not believe in the ex-
istence of a God, it is so far satisfactory that he
does not pretend to believe in one. But surely
the fact of his being an Infidel ought not to pre-
vent the newspapers from telling the truth about
him. Most of them persist in asserting—and the
mass of people, who take their facts at second
hand, repeat—that he declined to take the parlia-
mentary oath, and declared that it was not binding
on his conscience. Upon the basis of these false-
hoods, they abuse him for subsequently offering
to take the oath, and putting his conscience in his
pocket. In reality, as any one may discern who
goes to the fountain head, the parliamentary re-
ports, for information, Mr. Bradlaugh never
refused to take the oath, —never said he had con-
scientious objections to taking it. He asked to be
allowed to affirm, as that was to him the preferable
course, and he afterwards averred that the form
of oath contained words which were, to him, mean-
ingless. At the same time he stated that so far as
the rest of the oath was concerned if would be
just as binding on him as an affirmation, and no
more. His conduct has been thoroughly con-
sistent throughout. He made his public protest
against the, to him, puerile and unmeaning oath-
taking, and then affirmed, when the House, on the
motion of Mr. Gladstone, permitted him, at his
own risk, to do so. He next fought his battle in
the law courts, and when beaten there, re-appealed
to his constituents, who sent him back to parlia-
ment to take his seat in legal fashion. Where-
upon the House of Commons, at the instance of
the Tory leader, in effect, declared that the
people of Northampton should not be represented
by the man of their choice ; and from this dilemma
the Premier has now, in some way, to relieve the
thoughtless young aristocrats, stupid plutocrats,
and used-up fighting men who make up such a
large section of the House which should represent
the people.
De Mortals.
De mortuis nil nisi bonum. Yes, ’tia a noble
sentiment, and it formed a maxim which was truly
characteristic of the grand old race from which
we have received it. When the power to work
further evil has ceased, the dead past may well be
allowed to bury its dead. The true soldier scorns
to mutilate the prostrate body of his fallen foe
and every true man, no matter what may be his
profession, would shrink at the craven thought of
revenging himself upon the memory of a dead
enemy. Acts of this kind are left to be performed
by the lowest types of our race—the black bar-
barian savage and the sanctified white hypocrite.
Of these two species, the work of the latter is
perhaps the more repulsive. The one does not
profess to be any better than he is, and acts
merely in obedience to an instinct which some
higher or lower power has implanted in him, while
the other works upon a cold calculating principle,
and generally seeks to derive a profit as well as a
pleasure in seeking, by the revival of rancorous
reminiscences, to disturb the Lethean rest of those
who in life may never have injured or sought to
injure him. ; Men of this stamp are painfully
plentiful amongst our own community. In this
very city there is many a lamb’s mouth containing
a serpent’s forked tongue, and when death
mercifully comes to the relief of a man who is fallen
or unfortunate, these meek and holy creatures
are ever ready to engage in the Christian pastime
of disturbing his last sleep. No matter how the
feelings of living friends may be lacerated, let the
memory of the helpless dead be outraged. As
soon as the unfortunate man gets beyond “ the
bourne from whence no traveller returns,” there
is no fear of his ever coming forward with a
Supreme Court writ, so it is quite safe to heap up
slanders on his name. This is how the clerical
cowards reason, and thus it is also that the Devil's
work is carried on with perfect impunity in the
name of God. Perhaps we will be accused of a
sacrilegious onslaught upon the sacred rights of
our holy men if we presume to hint that such
work should be stopped. Nevertheless, in
the face of this, we assert that the law which
allows no redress to the man who sees a dead
friend’s memory held up to public scorn and con-
tempt is a disgrace to our civilisation—that is to
say, if we are still to have severe libel laws for the
benefit of the living. The abominable offence of
slandering dead men has now become so common
amongst one section of this community ('vide our
“ religious ” papers) that a clause dealing with it
is an absolute necessity to our libel law. As that
law is at present constituted, a man may have one
of the most susceptible chords in his nature
broken without being able to obtain any legal
protection, and if he takes a horsewhip to drive
away the hungry hypocrites who howl over a dead
friend’s grave, he may have to pay dearly for it
in the shape of fine or imprisonment.
A Martyr to Principle.
Mr. G. R. Dibbs will very shortly emerge—or
perhaps it would be more accurate to say he will
emerge at length—-from his voluntary retirement
in the cool sequestered shades of Darlinghurst
Gaol. The elongated hermit would probably look
back with more complacency upon his period of
withdrawal from the wicked world into those
charming cells, had not his estate been, during
the period of his seclusion, almost as completely
sequestered as the place of his retreat. He may be
regarded as likely to look upon this sell as in-
finitely less charming than the one that sheltered
him in the realms of Mr. Read. But for the contre-
temps which placed his affairs in the hands of
Mr. Deffell, at the Insolvency Court, the
twelve months just elapsed would have been not
unprofitably spent. If the option of saving a
couple of thousand pounds by simply consenting
to a limitation, somewhat stringent, of residence
and range, were offered to colonists in general, it
seems questionable whether even the large hospi-
tality and extensive accommodation of Mr. Read
would not bo found insufficient to meet the pres-
sure which would be put upon them. Mr. Dibbs,
however, has been accustomed to do things on a
somewhat exalted scale, and, apart from the
annoyance which the interference with his affairs
may presumably have caused him, he perhaps
May *7, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.
2


the bzvehston:
EIYERSTON
THE RIVERSTONE
772 ACRES, SUBDIV]
267 BLOCKS
NO SMALL ALLOT
IMMEDIATELY OPPOSITE
STATION, and FEONTII
BEAUTIFUL UNDULATING
ABLE FOE ORCHARDS,
FARMS, and COUNTE
BATT, RODD, ant
Hare received instructions to se'
TION, ON THE G:
on
SATURDAY, IV
AT 3 P.M.
W WITHOUT EEI
SPECIAL TRAIN A l ]
*,* The above valuable estate
divided by Mr. Licensed Su
follows:
267 TOWN LOTS, containing fro:
98 BLOCKS containing FOUR to
THE HOTEL, STORE, and BUT
LARGE BLOCK of GEOUN
£l5O per annum.
RIVERSTONE. RIV
W In reply to many inqni
RIVERSTONE is about 28 mi
rail, being a few miles from Blackt
Windsor and Richmond line.
The ESTATE, which is opposi
back to the main Windsor Road, t
frontage.
The LAND is well timbered, is s
scarcely any underscrub, well g
watered, undulating in character,
the immediate neighbourhood of
well-known orangeries.
It is SUBDIVIDED into TOWI
COUNTRY SITES, varying in ai
the Auctioneers have confidence i
of the LAND, which alone will en
tion of its value both PRESENT i
•a- AS THE GOVERNMENT
on this Estate for one of the Trig
it needs no comment to further
the Elevated Position of the lan
does, VIEWS of the whole countr
TITLE, TORRENS*. TITL
TEEMS: 10 per cent, cash; 1
months; Balance, 21 monthl
interest at 6 per cent.
Sale plan and lithos. now read
Solicitor to the Estate: A. H. M'C
Batt, Rodd and 3
AUCTIONEER
BRUSH GRI
THE NEW SUBURB IN THE
FIRST SUB-DIVISION IN 1
WATZIN & Wi
WILL SELI
ON SATURDAY NEXT
HOW TO MAKE M
Is a problem ■which the vast majority of mankind have set them:
which presents itself is, how to spend it to the best advantage,
never been wanting. Their name is, and always has been, “ L
numbers they leave the question still unanswered —so conflict]
his transactions be in pence or pounds or thousands of pound
upwards, is vociferous in telling you that his wares are the “ ch
the uttermost corner of this “ puffing advertising, bill-sticking
has termed it. Not only is it confined to modem times, but
past, “from Noah’s flood downwards,” —aye, and before it —\
one form or another. Could we bring to light a copy of th
Telegraph of ancient Nineveh, “ that great city,”' our estima
what ©nt if the announcements of the Smiths, Joneses, and R
found figuring as boldly as to-day, apprising the public 0
sacrifice” or “immense reduction” in the price of the latest r<
AS A MATTER OF FACT, it is the outcome of that p
dominates, not only the whole human race, but every race, thn
the lowest form of animalculse—those organisms so frail as ti
ascending upwards through each successive stage of evolution, 1
ANTHONY HORDERN .
claim exemption from this rule. To attempt to get rid of this 1
is this, that whilst with the Ninevites and Babylonians as alik
daring their wares to be
“THE CHEAPEST A
they would exultingly point a finger at the INDISPDTABI
which is furnished by the whole colony of New South Wales, i
in crowds to the
PALACE empo
each one with his or her quota of evidence, bearing witness to 1
pared with the VALUE of the DRAFEBT, &c., given for '
“ WHERE IS THE PALACE EMPORIUM ?” may
HAYMARKE
To this we would invite special attention :
OUR NAME AND ONLY ADDRI
ANTHONY HORDER
PALACE EMPOF
HAYMARKET (ONI
PRIZE “I VAN HOE”
YIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
' G. H. STEPHEN & Cl
< Wine Growers and Merch
13 Bridge Street
Hop Bitters introduced into the colony at last.
A big business might follow a big advertising.
I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
and I certify that it is composed of pure
a*sv oure d teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
it as being a wholesome and refreshing
wide of diet.—Karl Throdobb Staiske. . analytical
chemist."—Advt.
chafed at a twelvemonth which represented only a
nominal saving of a couple of thousands. Whether
he is a martyr or not is a point upon which
popular opinion is somewhat divided. He, no
doubt, is clearly of opinion that he is. There is
certainly some room for satisfaction in view of the
fact, so strikingly illustrated by Mr. Dibbs, that
a man may defeat a verdict which he believes to
be oppressive and iniquitous, and by a year’s
penance prevent an enemy from profiting by a
chance advantage, gained by the unequal opera-
tion of law. To adopt the course chosen by Mr.
Dibbs, demands a certain strength of resolution
which may be due to obstinacy, but may equally
be attributable to a man’s conviction that he has
been hardly used. Mr. Dibbs will come out with
at any rate the comfortable feeling that he has
never flinched from his original position as a
victim of circumstances, distressing indeed, but
not disgraceful.
The “Pious” Papers and the P. R.
The mealy-mouthed journalism of the Pitt and
Hunter-streets school was sorely indignant at the
abounding iniquity of the prize fight at which the
Callan Park labourers assisted with their presence.
Now it isn’t for us to exalt the P. R. as a school
f morals—though even that might be done;
but we would say this much emphatically, that
whatever of brutality there may be in a stand-up
fight, conducted according to the good old English
rules of fair play, with all hitting above the belt
and the best man to win, is in a very large
measure redeemed by its essential manliness—yes,
mealy-mouthed ones, by its essential manliness.
And at the present juncture, when at council and
board table, in so-called sporting arrangements, in
the pulpit, on the platform, ay, and in the sanctum
of the Chadbandism that pretends to represent
the Fourth Estate —when in such high places
(some very “ high ” indeed, in a moral olfactory
sense) sneaking and jobbery prevail, it were better
that one manly though illegal sport were connived
at, than that hideous detected swindles or the
proved unrighteousness of corrupt /. P-dom be
conaoned. Let us —from memory—quote poor
Adam Lindsay Gordon, who by the way,
once thrashed in succession, with his bare fists, three
stalwart navvies, one of whom had in the
first instance picked a quarrel with him—
There’s a formula which the west country clowns
Once used, ere their blows fell thick.
At the fairs on the Devon and Cornwall Downs,
In their bouts with the single-stick;
You may read a moral, not far amiss.
If you care to moralise.
In the crossing-guard, where the ash-plants kiss.
To the words “ God spare our eyes! ”
No game was ever yet worth a rap
for a rational man to play.
Into which no accident, no mishap.
Could possibly find its way.
*******
They were men, for the most part rough and rude.
Dull and illiterate;
Yet they nursed no quarrel, they cherished no feud.
They were strangers to spite and hate;
In a kindly spirit they took their stand.
That brothers and sons might learn
How a man should uphold the sports of his land.
And strike his best with a strong right hand.
And take his strokes in return.
“ ’Twas a barbarous practice,” the Quaker cries,
“ ’Tis a thing of the past, thank Heaven 1 "
Keep your thanks till the combative instinct dies.
With the taint of the olden leaven.
Yes, the times ore changed, for better or worse.
The prayer that no harm befall,
Has given place to a drunken curse.
And the manly game to a brawl.
The Clerical Squabbles.
It is really too bad! No sooner has the Mel-
bourne Parliament adjourned, to give the legis-
ators breathing time, than the parsons are “at
it.” There is no respite for the unhappy public.
Seven or eight columns in every morning’s Argus
on the Longer and Shorter Catechism, propitiatory
sacrifice, Hegel and Baub, Schelling and
Schliebmacheb ! It was really very incon-
siderate of Mr. Strong to stir up that unlucky
question of the Atonement. Once open the flood-
gates of theological eloquence, and there is no
closing them. And, as if to remove any possible
obstacle to the copious stream, the reverend
presbyters were allowed to bring their speeches
written out! Imagine the fierce joy with which a
McEachran or a Murdoch McDonald would,
in the retirement of his study, fill folio upon folio,
to be afterwards poured upon the unhappy
listeners. Seriously, however, it strikes one as
being out of place in an Australian community,
and towards the tail end of the Nineteenth Cen-
tury, this earnest and elaborate discussion upon
questions that plunge ns back into the days of the
old schoolmen. And while the Scotch divines are
thus exercising themselves, the Anglican mind is
deeply stirred upon surplices and chasubles, pos-
tures and incense, at the instigation of the Eev.
Mr. Spicer, of All Saints’ Church, St. Kilda.
This young gentleman, whose beard has barely
sprouted, not content with the dignity of an
Anglican curate, must needs pose as a priest and
father of the Church. The Melbourne people are
gravely rebuked for not going to church at Easter,
the opening of the Exhibition on Good Friday
is stigmatized as a heinous and deadly sin, and
Melbourne is likened on this account to Sodom
and Gomorrah rolled into one. But Mr.
Spicer knows what he is about. His church
a crowded every Sunday, while the fair sex run
after him, buy his photo., and treasure up every
word that falls from the lips of the young and
interesting saint. Of course we have nothing of
this kind in Sydney.


BRIEF MENTION.
A bore-lug machine —Melville.
The Progress of N.S.W.—Branch’s.
A “ sold” race—South Sea Islanders.
Howard’s last study—A “ Brown ” one.
A Scotch mist —Eev. Dr. Who ?
Ninian Melville’s weapon—“ The Chinese mus’
git."
A painful operation—Perusing the Sixpenny
Hicks.
We understand that Mr. M'Beath is sick. So
are the ratepayers.
Song of the glucosed artilleryman—‘‘Let me
like a soldier fall."
Motto for Clarence and New England Railway
League—” Graft-on.”
New business of Tasmanian banks—“ Thirty
per thent, s’help me.”
In its notice of “ Maritana” the Penny Exile
calls Don Jose, Dan Jose. Why not Dan Mayne at
once ?
The Holy Howl, last week, called The Bul-
letin a “ nice, godly paper.” So sorry we can’t return
the compliment.
Hobart to Melbourne, forty-two hours’ steam,
saloon fare £3 15s. Sydney to Melbourne, saloon £l,
often taking three days.
At the Redfern station, the other day, a hearse-
car and a retrigerating-car were coupled. We wonder
why ? The fact is suggestive.
Inspector O’Connor says that in hunting for
the Kellys'the police always used to keep on the road.
And yet, for all that, they were never on the track.
Odd, isn’t it ?
“Do they love the women as we do?” shrieked
the poetic Mr. Pitt at the anti-Chinese meeting. “ Yes,
indade; they like ’em a great deal better,” said a voice
from the back.
We are glad to see the “ religious ” papers
“ digging down deep.” That article In the Presby-
terian on “ marriages between sickly persons ” is,
indeed, charming.
The S. F. Argonaut says—“ The New York
Tribune is owned by Jay Gould, the New York World
as well.” The Threepenny Express crowd had
better look out. He’ll be getting hold of their paper
next.
Says the Tamworth News : “An accident
occurred at the Brewery one day last week, whereby the
fireman employed there fell from a ladder to the
ground. He has since been incapacitated.” A good
job, too. How many more ladders does he want to fall
from P
Occasionally, the clergy say good things. For
example, there’s the rev. gentleman who while lecturing
in Sydney the other evening held forth thus: —“ As the
great Duke of Wellington said in the House of Lords,
during the discussion of the Alabama question, there’s
nothing more dreadful in war than a victory but a
defeat.”
Says the Morning Rum in a par. re its report
of the anti-Chinese meeting : “On Thursday evening,
Mr. Cameron's name was accidentally omitted. His
remarks were therefore made to appear as those of Mr.
Crockett, who contented himself by seconding the
resolutions." “ Only this, and nothing more.” Why
the deuce don’t they import a Patagonian, and get the
thing done properly ?
It’s really too bad of the Morning Rum to
round upon its own friends. Look at this sarcastic
attack on the Castlereagh-street Groan in a recent
issue :—“ Our comical contemporary, Sydney Punch,
publishes a most perplexing cartoon.” And this after
all the doggerel that has been ground out about some-
body in York-street 1 But there is no such thing as
gratitude in this world.
The Parramatta Council Clerk has a most
paternal Council to deal with. His salary is £2OO, the
Council have just built him a residence at a cost of
£7OO, and at the meeting of that body on Monday last,
a resolution was passed voting £5O “ for Council Clerk’s
window-blinds and gas-fittings.” It has not yet tran-
spired what the ratepayers think of all this, and
February is a long way off yet.
Dr. Agnew has written for the Hobart Mer-
cury a few columns about Ceylon. In the doctor’s
contribution' are set forth a number of facts by which
people who have lived in Ceylon’s balmy isle for many
years are thoroughly astounded. So as to be on the
safe side, the doctor should follow the tactics of little
Mr. Bouncer —purchase a guide-book, and transcribe
therefrom his glowing descriptions.
Aaron Sherritt’s widow is to get half-a-sovereign
a week from the Victorian Government in recognition
of the services rendered to the police during the reign
of the Kellys, by her late husband. At this scale of
remuneration, Aaron, poor fool, isn’t likely to be
imitated. It is said, by the way, that his shade
appeared to some Spiritualists the other evening, and
all that could be got out of it was the exclamation,
“Of what good’s your world to a man if his wife’s a
widow P”
We had a par. last week anent the new kissing
game of cards, which is seized upon by one of the 960
“ Zigzaggers,” and dished up according to his liver—
we mean lights. Listen to this puerile ink-slinging
groveller. Alluding to the game, he says—“ Suspicions
certainly; and very dangerous for the lady’s velvet
cheek, if, as a cruel member of the fair sex declares is
the case, ‘ cheeks are made up nowadays, my dear, to
be looked at, not to be kissed; kissing and the pomatum
and rouge pots don’t do, my dear.’ * r Now, we wonder
who this “ cruel member of the fair sex ” is and what pie-
shop she serves in. If this kind of thing is what the
readers of an evening paper want, all well and good.
We do not grudge the Echo people the notion they
have cribbed from ns. As we have before observed,
they are welcome to any idea of ours—after we have done
with it.
The other day, in a southern town, a well-known
publican called an equally well-known sporting man,
while the pair were having a chat, “ a fool.” A
row ensued. The horsey man sued the publican for
having used “ language calculated,” etc., and when the
case was called on, the boniface remarked that he did
not mean to he offensive when Le used the words, but
had uttered them merely to express his disapproval of
what he considered a very stupid action on com-
plainant’s part. He added that the horsey man had,
by bringing the action, proved himself to be all that he
had been called. Defendant was fined ss. and 14s. lOd.
costs, and was cautioned to be more careful in future.
He replied that he would not incur the risk of a second
fine by repeating his observations, but he still couldn’t
help thinking he was right, and he believed every one
else had now formed a similar opinion. The court then
adjourned.
The successor to Mr. C. H. Buzacott as editor
of the Rockhampton Bulletin is a cousin of the
Premier, and has lately arrived from home.
He apparently considers that he has devoured
enough “burgoo" and swallowed a sufficient number
of red herrings to enable him to write critical
notices on deceased statesmen. In a late issue of the
paper, as effusion from his pen appears, which is a
masterpiece of smug complacency. The late Lord
Beaconsfleld is the subject, and “Sandy” writes as
follows:—"His name will not appear on the statute
book associated with any important Act, unless it be
the last Reform Bill, which was so manipulated in its
progress through Parliament that the Duke of Buc-
cleuch said the only original part of it left was the
initial word * Whereas.’ After all, it was characterised
as a * Leap in the Dark.’ His mission to Berlin was a
showy parade, highly gratifying to the vanity of the
principaiaotor, but productive of results the advantages
of which have yet to be discovered.” And this from a
little new chum, who hut a short while ago was only
interested in politics to the extent to which they caused
oatmeal to rise and fall in the market 1 The only man
we ever knew who indulged in this tall style of compo-
sition was a person named Gubhins, and his contribu-
tions were always inserted in Reynolds’s Newspaper
—at current advertising rates. We see, however, a
brilliant future in store for the new editor directly the
steel rails question is settled.
The Government tramway is now in full swing.
Funerals at reduced rates.
New poem shortly to appear in the Evening
Ghost : “ Angus’s Lament."
Shouldn’t mail phaetons, instead of ’busses,
take ladies to Kissing Point ?
The M.S. of Scott’s “ Guy Mannering ” has just
been sold in London for £990. We wonder what the
M.S. of Lewis’s prologue would fetch ?
The amorous Sydney man who was so unmerci-
fully castigated the other day by a Western print is
understood to contemplate a libel action.
It is said that Mr. Langtry, husband of the
“Jersey Lily,” possesses a secret by which he keeps
his pants from bagging at the knees. Nothing is said
as to the toilet secrets Mrs. L. possesses!
It was deep down in the sunny south. He was
an impecunious Greek. The bailiff overtook him and
said: “I arrest you by virtue of this ca. sa.” “ You’ve
made a mishtake me man,” replied Patrick, “me
name’s Ca-sey.”
A gentleman, while crossing Hyde Park the
other morning at 12.30, was knocked down, and robbed
by two men. The moral of this is: When asked in the
park for “ the time ” or “ a match,” pull out a knife
with a 7-in. blade.
“At the Paris Exhibition of Electricity M.
Salignac will show a method of cooking by electricity
in the grill-room of the restaurant.” This mode will,
of course, be adopted without delay at the Coffee
Palace, where some of the good templar parties eat by
electricity.
The solicitors of the late Mr. Alexander Alexan-
drovitoh (of vitch ve haf lately shboken at length) have,
we understand, entered a libel action against The
Bulletin for £lO,OOO. They don’t ask more, because
they thing the Sydney charities shouldn’t be pampered
too much.
Croajingolong is fortunate in being able to
ignore a material condition of the new Electoral Act.
It has two members still. During the past fortnight
its late M.P. has so “ worried up ” certain Government
officials, that red-tape tricks are set at defiance, and
some important local wants are promised “prompt
attention.” He swears that Charlie sha’n’t have all the
kudos, even if he has collared the free railway ticket.
And Charlie's gout certainly is a heavy handicap.
This is the sort of bosh that the Morning Rum
people allowed a correspondent to write in the rag of
2nd inst.: —“ Almost every sentiment of those Free-
traders was in outrageous disharmony with their pro-
fessed principles, and looking at the performance of
Messrs. O’Connor, Cameron, and Reid, I congratulate
them upon having metamorphised a subject, not with-
out its tragic aspect, into the broadest and most pitiable
of farces.” In the name of thunder, what does the
foregoing mean ?
When we read that at Melbourne a German
named Orthgies had perpetrated the freak of jumping
out of a train which was going at the rate of ten miles
an hour, we looked back to see whether his name wasn’t
Orgies.
We don’t want any more communications about
that suburban parson’s horse. All we want is that
Mr. Dempsey, the friend of the brute (we don’t mean of
the gospel-grinder who starved his horse to death),
should do his duty, and that those personally ac-
quainted with the circumstances should roll up and
give evidence.
What strange discoveries the public’s got on!
All things Municipal are—rotten—rotten I
You read the papers through, and then, faith, you’ll
Not quite know who’s the rogue and who’s the fool.
You guess, of course—you know, dear boys; but, then.
It’s hard to throw stones at such holy men!
“ Oh, do not think,” cries Davies, “ now, I ween.
On what they are, but what they might have been! ”
In a certain suburb (we don’t say of what city),
not long ago, the Mayor and Town Clerk purchased
conjointly two estates, which, in view of the present
deplorable condition of the libel law, shall be nameless.
These properties are situated one on either side of the
road to the cemetery. It was determined by the
Council, in a hurry, to repair the cemetery road at a
cost of a few hundreds, and to borrow the money for
the purpose. The estates have since been cut up into
small allotments, and sold for enormous sums. And it
is thus seen what luck attends the Mayors and Town
Clerks of some suburbs.
Hobart is now, has been for many years, and
will probably remain for many years more, in want of a
newspaper. However, when a Hobart man meets you
he doesn’t put it in that way He says: “We want
another daily papermeaning that the milk-and-watery
old Mercury requires a little healthy opposition. But
until a great many more first-class funerals take place
at Hobart, and old fogeyism is somewhat shaken,
there’s no fear of any capitalist ' risking so much for the
chance of gaining so little. That is to say, unless the
Morning Rum people shift their organ from Sydney to
under the shadow of Mount Wellington.
The first number of the Armidale Chronicle
(the third paper now published there) is to hand. It
is a very interesting, not to say exciting, journal. It
has the usual “ Ourselves,” an article on “ Indian
Scalps,” some mwltwm in parvo, a par. about a “ Desper-
ate Bandit,” and other enthralling matter. One
brevity, however, particularly attracted our attention.
Here it is : —“ A hoary-(sic)-handed son of Vulcan is
erecting brick houses in the town. He deserves all he
gets.” Now, is this an encomium or a threat ? We
wonder who the editor of the Armidale Chronicle is F
There was once a man we knew who worked at a
Charters Towers sawmill, and but, of course, it
can’t be the same.
How can Oxford-street be widened? By the
union of a Bohrsman and a Bride.
It was remarked the other night at the theatre
that one of the daily papers was foolly represented.
The “ Wilkinistic tongue ” is what a writer in
the Churchman calls “ school-inspectors’ English."
At least some of the Civil Servants were not
paid until Monday last. The Colonial Treasurer did
not like them to lose their money at the races.
Memo, for Mr. Hoskins. Cannot an Inspector
of conditional purchases, who is shown to have accented
a bribe of £3 for performing his duty, be prosecuted ?
When the police served some of ‘ ‘ the talent’ ’ with
summonses for obstructing the footway in front of
Tattersall's, none of the constables knew the principal
N. S. Wales turfites hy sight. Ingenuous creatures !
At Petersham, the other day, two seedy-looking
men were seen trying to enter the dwelling of a well-
known resident. Burglary was instantly suspected, and
the police sent for. A clever capture was made of the
men, who turned out to be—bailiffs !
The other day, on the Randwick line, a tram
conductor asked three policemen for their fares. The
conductor, however, insisted on getting the fares—and
he did get them. There are a lot of people travelling
by tram just now who ought to be similarly dealt with.
For ill-treating an apprentice a Grafton man
was recently fined £3O. Another man who should be
fined £3O is the bootmaker who lives over the water and
makes certain orphan boys work from 6 a.m. until 10
and 11 p.m. Will the proper authorities kindly look
this little matter up ?
The Public Park, Waverley, purchased by the
Government for £7OOO, and planted with ornamental
trees and shrubs, is being utilised by a Bondi milkman
who runs in it daily about 80 head of cattle. And, as
everybody doesn’t dote on cows, the latter have the
place all to themselves just now.
The plant of the Inverell Herald has been
seized by the proprietor of the Inverell Times for
costs in the late libel action, Bond v. Cook. The friends
of the latter, within six hours, ordered a complete new
plant, which was dispatched the same day. In the
meantime, arrangements were made to print the
Herald at Glen Innes, in order that the copyright of
the paper might be preserved. Thus the plant is in
Bond, and the Herald for the time being is Cook-ed.
It has come out that Lord Lytton (“Owen
Meredith”) is a most barefaced plagiarist. His poem
“ Lucile” is a metrical translation of George Sand’s
“ Lavinia,” and his “Songs of Servia” a translation of
a French translation of Servian ballads. It would seem
by this that no one’s works are safe now. Those London
people will be making tragedies out of Lewis Scott’s
comedies, and turning Pastor Allen’s “ Bleeding Nun”
into a comic ballad next. We advise these gentlemen
to secure their London copyrights without delay.
The Western Grazier says that “the Rev.
Wijliam Webster, Presbyterian minister, has served a
Supreme Court writ, claiming £5OOO damages, on Mr.
Walterus Brown, proprietor of the Wilcannia Times.
The damages are claimed for certain alleged libels, said
to have been published by Mr. Brown, reflecting on the
moral character of Mr. Webster. The venue of the
case is laid in Sydney.” We hope, of course, our
brother journalist will pull through,—though when a
man has a name like “ Walterus ” he ought not to be
surprised at any misfortune happening to him. The
editor of a Sydney journal has a name even more bizarre
than “Walterus;” and we hear that for the last five
years ho has been saving up to buy a flint musket, in
order to “ pot ” his godfathers and godmothers at the
first convenient opportunity.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Cuneux = Verse hardly up to the mark. Try
again “ Z.Y.C.”: Will publish when space permits.
A capital satire “ Annie J." (Balmain): Thanks for
your letter, which we regret to have to say was mislaid.
“W. J.”: Received; thanks “W. J. B." (Har-
den) : Received “Sam Bough”: Glad if you’ll call.
“Scripsit”: We know him of old “Geo. Roy-
lance”: Will attend to the matter in our next “E.
H.”; We’d much rather not “W. A.”: We don’t
deal in such things “J.C.J.”: We have already
stated that we do not undertake, under any circum-
stances, to return rejected M.S.S “C’town”: We
must_ decline. The name is after all one of the
prettiest in this or any other language, and has associa-
tions widely different from those to which you particu-
larly allude “Geo. L.S.” (Adelaide): Received ; will
consider “W. 8.” (Tighe’s Hill): Yes, the New-
castle Despatch par. was prigged bodily from The
Bulletin. They merely altered the brand “ J.L.C.”
(Glen Innes): Next issue “ W. 0.”: Next issue, per-
haps “J.N.” (Petersham) : Much obliged.
The tram to Waverley has caused a great rush
for good building sites in that charming locality. South
Chesterfield, near the tram terminus, is to go to auction
without reserve, on May 14, —Hardie and Gorman being
the auctioneers.
Every one who kills an iguana saves the lives of
a dozen snakes.
A very successful experiment with the Michella
stenographic machine has been made in the Paris
Chamber of Deputies.
There are about 45,000 seamen and 13,000
marines in the British navy. The year’s expenditure is
stated at £10,725.910.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Hon. the Minister for Lands is indisposed.
Marshal M‘Mahon hospitably entertained Parnell
in Paris.
Jack Conway, we hear, is going to Melbourne to
join the Federal Australian.
Mr. Lindsay Thompson has been appointed
Secretary to the Fisheries Commission.
Michael Davitt complains that his ticket of
leave is only a ticket of leave now in name.
The finest collection of ferns in the colony ia
that of the Hon. John Eales, of Dnckenfield.
Mr. Croumbie Brown, formerly sub-editor of
the Melbourne Age, is now on the Lyttleton (N Z )
Times.
The editor of the Queanbeyan Times was, on
Saturday, horsewhipped by a lady. The flagellation
was of a very mild order.
Harry Hill, the sporting “ financier ” and con-
federate of Gully and Padwick, is just dead. He made
£250,000 laying against dead-uns.
It is said that Mr. Graham Berry made .£30,000
in mining during the last two years, and that he has
purchased a station property in N.S.W.
Archibald Forbes is not a passenger by the City
of New York, which reached Auckland on Tuesday, but
he will arrive from America by next mail.
When news of Lord Beaconsfield’s death arrived
at Adelaide, “ they went and told the sexton (of the
Town Hall), and the sexton tolled the bell.”
C. W. Mills, of Wellington, N.Z., who failed a
few weeks ago for nearly £200,000, has entered into
business with a Mr. M’Cabe, and purchased back his
old foundry.
Mr. Dan. Mayne, of the Bathurst Sentinel,
has been committed for trial on a charge of having
assaulted Mr. J. E. Tonkin, who had previously
attempted to “ cowhide ” him.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke, the Victorian million-
aire, intends leaving for Europe shortly. Some of the
Melbourne papers will then have no one to toady to.
Not that Mr. Clarke likes toadyism.
Sir Julius Vogel does not, it is said, intend re-
entering politics, but he means to visit N.Z. to press
his claims for remuneration on account of his services
in connection with raising the last loan.
Mr. E. P. S. Sturt, the veteran P.M. of the
Melbourne City Police Court, has safely returned to
Victoria from England. He was appointed Superin-
tendent of Police at Port Phillip in 1850.
The death of Baron Von Der Tann, the famous
Bavarian General, is reported by cable. Emile Girardin
the brilliant French journalist, is also dead. Arms
and arts thus lose two great men.
We hear that the proceedings for libel instituted
by Mr. Charles Readett, of Newcastle, against Mr. A.
H. Jacob, M.P., have been abandoned, plaintiff not
having filed his declaration within the prescribed
tims.
No fuss was made over the Duke of Manchester
in Christchurch, though he was one of the sleeping
founders of the settlement. Christchurch is one of the
few places in the colonies where there is plenty of real
blue blood.
Brough Smyth, who is now managing an Indian
mining spec, is on a visit to Melbourne. He declares it
was the luckiest thing that ever happened him his
leaving the YictorianlCivillService. His salary is now
£3OOO per annum.
Several members of the Town-hall ring the
other day threatened Aid. J. D. Young with an action
for slander in reference to certain statements recently
made by him in the City Council. Alderman Meeks
challenges them to proceed, and offers to “ stand the
racket.”
Sir Henry may have forgiven, but he certainly
has not forgotten, the graduates of the University who
neglected him despite Dr. Badham’s testamur as to his
“ culchaw.” He is understood now to have in prepara-
tion a little bill for the bouleversement of the whole
concern.
Mr. District Court Judge Hely (Queensland) is
suing Mr. Thadens O’Kane, editor, printer, and pub-
Usher of the Northern Miner, Charters Towers (and,
by the way, the pluckiest, straightest-speaking, and
not the least honest joumaUst in the far north) for
libel. Damages are laid at £2OOO,
Mr. Vickers Jacob (son of Mr. A. H. Jacob,
M.P.), who has for five years been accountant of the
Commercial Bank, Queanbeyan, and who has just been
transferred to another branch, was, on his departure
from Queanbeyan, banqueted and presented with a
valuable gold watch by the leading residents.
At the A.M.P. Society’s last general meeting,
Mr. S. Ellis suggested that the Directory should, at
next annual meeting, consider the propriety of recom-
mending that the secretary’s salary be increased
by at least £5OO per annum, and the salary of Mr.
Black, the actuary, by at least £350 per annum.
Sir John Lefroy is very popular in Tasmania,
and it is a general wish that his appointment should be
a permanent one. Some people would like him to
make more show, and give more balls, etc. Why don’t
they, then, in Tasmania vote their Governors more
money P They expect something semi-Oriental out of
£3500 a-year.
Elegant souvenirs have been provided by the
members of the N.S.W. Academy of Art—which insti-
tution, having accompUshed the object set before
itself at its formation, has ceased to exist—for Messrs.
E. L. Monteflore and E. Du Faur, in recognition of the
debt this colony owes them for their successful
exertions in the cause of Australian art.
Mr. Hemming Webb, the Victorian Government
shorthand writer, is in a precarious state of health.
His complaint is jaundice, attended with dropsy. Mr.
Webb is a very old Civil servant, and came out over
twenty-five years ago from Gurney’s office to take his
present appointment, which he has held ever since. He
is a brother of Mr. Webb, the eminent equity Victorian
lawyer.
One day, many years ago, the late “Peter
Possum ” (Richard Rowe) was going along Pitt-street.
The Empire office was then being built, and on top of
the edifice a workman was carving a piece of stone.
“ What are they cutting out up there ?’’ enquired a
near-sighted bystander. Blandly replied the genial and
gentle Peter: “My dear fellow, they’re cutting out the
Herald.”
What a übiquitous life the Tasmanian Premier
leads ! One day he makes his financial statement;
next day he acts as counsel for a man who refuses to
pay his butcher’s bill; He is next found presiding at a
football meeting, acting as a delegate at an Intercolonial
Conference, or telling the homy-handed ef Adelaide all
about working men’s clubs. To-morrow, perhaps, he’ll
be on the bench.
The will of the late Rev. Dr. Cairns, of Mel-
bourne, has been sworn under £10,039. Deceased leaves
his property in the first place to trustees for the bene-
fit of his widow; after her death the trustees to stand
possessed of same in trust for his daughters, who are
to take equal shares, free from the control of their re-
spective husbands, and after their death for the benefit
of their children.
Sir Herbert Sandford, the British representative
Commissioner at the Victorian International Exhibition,
while on a visit to this city, was a guest at Government
House. Sir Herbert paid a visit to the Blue Mountains,
and was entertained at Faulconbridge by Sir H. Parkes.
He took advantage of his sojourn in Sydney to make a
cursory inspection of the fortifications and “ our har-
bour,” Sir John Robertson doing the honours on the
occasion.
The estate of the late Mr. William Hoffman, of
Essendon, Melbourne, has been proved under £78,000.
Testator makes provision for his wife during her life,
gives the Presbyterian Church, Essendon, £3OO, leaves
his son £5OO, and after providing for vaJfious small
bequests, orders the income of the residue of his estate
to be paid to his daughter, Louisa SmitTn, wife of Mr.
Thomas Smith, of Melbourne, durinrg her life; after
death, the to be divided amongst her children*
(Coni 'nued on pa ge 13.)
A DISTINGUISHED BASSO.
May 7, 1881.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Trickett beat Kirby again easily.
Mnswellbrook races on June 2nd and 3rd.
Richmond is lame all over, and may not race
again.
The autumn meet of the Northern Jockey Club
on May 10 and 11.
Saunterer beat a tattoo “in good time,” winning
the Bathurst Handicap.
Nine horses have accepted for the Warrnambool
Grand National Steeplechase.
A scratch football match was played on Satur-
day at Moore Park. The season commences fairly this
Saturday.
The football season will be inaugurated to-day
(Saturday), at Moore Park, by a scratch match ar-
ranged by the Eedferns.
Mr. H. H. Ellliott, Mudulluh, has been ap-
pointed sole handicapper for the North Australian
Jockey Club, Queensland.
Lady Emma, who won the Christchurch
Autumn Handicap, is the property of Sir Hercules
Bobinson, and was trained by James Kean.
At the Epsom spring meeting on 27th April, the
City and Suburban Handicap (Epsom) was won by Bend
Or, Foxhall being second, and Sostobit third.
Clarence River regatta takes place on Queen’s
Birthday. The programme contains thirteen events,
inclusive of the champion race for 110 sovereigns.
The fifteenth annual meeting of the Brisbane
Football Club was held on Friday evening at Brisbane.
The past season has been one of unparalleled success.
Rapid Bay has been purchased by Mr. Andrew
Town, and will join Grand Flaneur. He has quitted the
turf with eclat by winning the two handicaps on Satur-
day last.
The Dubbo Jockey Club Meeting takes place
to-day (Thursday) and Friday. The entries for-the
various events are good, and the racing promises to be
excellent.
Mata, Clifton, Camballo, Trevallyn, and Brit-
tania arrived at Adelaide from Melbourne on Thursday.
Mata is a little backward, but the others are in good
condition.
It is hardly likely there will be an Intercolonial
football match in Sydney this year, the Sydney Eugby
Football Union not countenancing the game under
Victorian rules.
There was a marked difference between the
seats of some of the gentlemen riders and that of the
clerk of the course. “ Keep your toes in, men; don’t
ride like tailors.”
The acceptances for the Warwick (Queensland)
races are not satisfactory: only six for the Warwick
Handicap, five for the Club Handicap, and four for the
Flying Handicap.
The coursing in connection with the Victorian
Coursing Club was concluded on Wednesday, at Sun-
bury. Mavis won the Sunbury Stakes, Wine Cup, and
the Ernest Stakes.
A false start was made for the Forced Handicap
at Bathurst on Thursday, and Eosinante, who had been
fairly backed, bolted, and galloped three times round
the course before the race.
An obliging correspondent informs us that Kirby
whom Trickett defeated the other day, is a young fellow
employed at a Southampton boat-shed hauling and
mooring boats kept for hire.
Sam Bloor, the well known trainer of Fleming-
ton, arrived per Eodondo on Thursday with Mr. E. E.
Jones’s greyhounds, and took his departure for
Bathurst on Friday morning.
The sculling match between Robert Edwards, of
Melbourne, and McDonald, of Sydney, which was to
have taken place on the Parramatta Eiver, is off,
Edwards being obliged to retire.
Mr. W. A. Long has purchased the colt Brian
Boru. He is a two-year-old and won two races at the
last meeting of the Murrumbidgee Turf Club. He is
by John Bull from Nightshade.
The “lay” of the “ welchers” was generally
longer than that of the genuine bookmaker, but their
real “lay” became apparent after the races, when the
doleful “ lay” of the backers was heard.
A very successful race meeting was held for the
first time at Little Billabong. The affair is now likely
to become an annual one. Six events were contested,
Ethel being the winner of the principal handicap.
General regret has been expressed in swimming
circles in Melbourne that the match for the champion-
ship of Australia between MTndoe and Corbett is
likely to fall through, owing to apathy on the Sydney
side.
Wheatear is the great “ pot ” for the Melbourne
Cup in the doubles. He is not entered for the Mel-
bourne Derby, and the opinions are divided between
Monmouth, Spinningdale, and Welcome Jack for that
event.
A large number of local horses, entered for the
Northern Jockey Club meeting, are now at work every
morning on the course at West Maitland. The meeting
is likely to be a success. The gates and booths were
sold for reasonable prices on Tuesday. •
The Northern Jockey Club meeting is to take
place On the 10th and 11th instant. The nominations
for the principal handicaps number—22 for the Flying
Handicap, 20 for the Duckenfleld Park Stakes, and 16
for the Northern Jockey Club Handicap.
J. M. O'Connor accepts M. Cann’s challenge to
walk him seven miles for £5O a-side. He is also willing
to run any man in Australia ten miles for £2O a-side.
The only stipulation is that any match made shall
came off on the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
A luncheon was given by the Commodore of the
Prince Alfred Yacht Club, Mr. J. H. Want, to the
members, on Saturday afternoon, at Chowder Bay. A
jovial day was spent, and congratulatory speeches were
made. The club is in a state of unexampled prosperity.
Says the Melbourne correspondent of a con-
temporary : —“ Not being a boating man, it has some-
times occurred to me that there may one day come
about an improvement in rowing, whereby a rower will
row with his face looking towards the place he is going
to."
The Inverell Picnic Races were continued on
Saturday, and resulted as follow: —Hurdle Handicap:
lon 1. President’s Cup : Drummer and Sunlight dead
heat for flrst.place. Ladies’ Bag : Vesta 1, Sunlight 2.
Byron Handicap: Serf 1. Goodwood Handicap : King-
fisher 1.
The Hunter’s Hill Amateur Athletic Club will
hold its sixth sports meeting at the Hunter’s Hill
Cricket Ground, to-day (Saturday). Admission to the
ground will be by invitation ticket, and visitors will be
conveyed by special steamers, leaving Circular Quay at
1.30 p.m.
Several bookmakers were fined at the Water
Police Court for obstructing the pathway at Tattersnll's
Hotel. The defendants were Charles Eichards, William
Eiley, David Ingram, Patrick Donnelly, William Free-
man, Milson, George Blake, Patrick Healey,
Austin Tighe, and George Bentley.
A Hobart crew will be formed to visit Sydney
next season. They will probably be selected from the
Bros. Lloyd, Sharland, the Bros. Stuart, Pearce, Wate-
horn, and Cook. All those named are fine strong young
fellows, but with the exception of Sharland and the
Lloyds, they use the slide very badly.
The results of the] Goulburn races, on Wednes-
day last, were as follow Maiden Plate : Blackthorn 1,
Torpedo 2, After Dark 3. Hack Eace: Count 1, Paddy
2, Off-she-goes 3. Town Plate: Blondin 1, Ladylike 2,
Victor 3. District Parse : Ladylike 1, Eival 2, Jenny 3.
Beaten Stakes : Grey Jimmy 1, Victor 2, Actress 3.
The results of the Inverell picnic races, con-
tested at Byron on Friday last, are as follow:—Hurdle
Eace : lon I, Huntsman 2, Irion 3. Maiden Plate;
Drummer 1, Phantom 2, Firefly 3. Jehu Stakes : New
Chum 1, Phantom 2, Doctor 3. Vice-President’s Cup :
Vestal, Sunlight 2, Meteor 3. Hack Eace: Belmore l!
Lustre 2, Mabel 3.
He took 4 to 2 about Eapid Bay and posted the
two “ quid." Joyfully he saw his horse win ; and then
he sought for the “ book.” He was gone; the town
was searched in vain; the berths of the Ly-ee-moon
were visited —but no “ bookmaker” turned up. And
now, ‘‘of reference there’s a lack, to his chance of
coming back, Tarantara.”
The “ Welchers” mustered in force during the
late meeting, and, notwithstanding the notice of the
secretary as to expulsion, openly plied their avocation.
Many seekers after long odds were plucked, and there
was “ wailing and gnashing of teeth” amongst some of
the winners—or rather the backers of winning horses,
who won their wagers, but lost even their own stakes.
A number of very handsome cups, to be given
for coursing events, have been on view at Messrs. David
Jones and Co.’s establishment in George-street. These
include the Bathurst Cup, the International Cup, the
Plnmpton Stakes Plate, and the Sydney Cup. The
latter is the gift of the late Mr. A. H. Gardiner, for the
best greyhound running in the Puppy Stakes of the May
meeting.
Maribyrnong was the most successfully repre-
sented sire at the late Autumn meeting six
wins being to his credit, scored by Spinningdale, Etna,
and Somerset. Progress’s four wins go to the credit of
Angler; and Panic scored three with President and
Wellington. Three were credited to the imported sire.
Epigram, by Wheatear and Canary; and two to Talk-'o-
the-Hills, by Eapid Bay.
Two prizes were given for Irish jigging at the
Eoma athletic sports on Easter Monday. The first was
awarded to Stranger, who danced fairly, but the other
competitor did not attempt much, and one of the
judges being determined that the spectators should see
what a jig is like when properly danced, stepped on the
board and obtained, by his superior dancing, second
prize, amidst*enthusiastic applause.
The results of the Sydney Amateur Turf Club
Autumn Meeting, at Eandwick, on Saturday, are as
follow : —Hurdle Eace, Wrangler 1, The Hatter 2, Eadi-
cal 3. Ely Handicap, Eapid Bay 1, Primrose 2, Chil-
ders 3. Corinthian Cup, Rival 1, Jalian 2, Islington 3.
Steeplechase, Lady Eipon 1, Jupiter 2, Secrets. Selling
Plate, Lady Superior 1, Croydon 2, Barmaids. Turf
Club Handicap, Eapid Bay 1, Tattoo 2, Master Avenal 3.
The third Intercolonial Bowling iV. atch between
New South Wales and Victoria took place on Saturday
last at Annandale, and resulted in a victory for New
South Wales by 10 points, the scores being—New South
Wales : No. 1 rink 29, No. 2 rink 22, No. 3 rink 34, No. 4
rink 23. Total, 108. Victoria: No. 1 rink 16, No. 2rink
30, No. 3 rink 23, No. 4 rink-29. Total, 98. The day
was pleasantly spent, and in the evening the Victorians
were entertained at a banquet at Compagnoni’s.
The Eedfern Football Club held its annual
meeting last Friday in the local Town Hall. A highly
satisfactory report and balance sheet were read and
adopted. Mr. E. Barton, M.P., (president) moved the
adoption of the report, and made an excellent speech.
He hoped the club would ever tackle bigger clubs, and
accept an honorable defeat rather than win matches at
the expense of smaller clubs. All the old officers were
re-elected, Mr. J. Byrnes being added to the general
committee.
The Parramatta racecourse has lately undergone
vast improvement. A good substantial fence has been
erected for the outside public; the judge’s-stand has
been removed to a more convenient spot, and the
fencing in front of the stand has been renovated. The
sheds and outbuildings have been repaired, and the
refreshment booths and stalls have been shifted more
to the westward of the grand-stand. Due attention has
also been paid for the accommodation of the repre-
sentatives of the Press.
Mr. J. JB. Evans of Toowoomba, Queensland,
has imported two rare specimens of the pure Scotch
collie breed. The dog is The Laird by the champion
Cockle, who has won the prize at nearly all the great
shows. He is but eight months old, is de-
scribed as a perfect representative of the breed. The
slut Lassie by Mac is considerably smaller than her
consort, although a month older. Mr. Evans intenda'to
settle in the Toowoomba district, and in due time hopes
to have a stud of- pure collies.
The players of Mr. Ironside’s new game, fria-
quette or ladies’ cricket, intend to bring the sport into
due prominence during the coming season. A meeting
of the Alpha Club took place on last Friday evening
at the Captain Cook Hotel. A very satisfactory state
of affairs was disclosed by the report. The trophy for
highest hatting average fell to Mr. F. Stapleton, who
played 25 innings with an average of 27.08, and Mr. E.
Selfe secured the trophy for catching, his average being
9. The first match of the new season will take place at
Moore Park on Saturday.
We have a few well-wishers in America. This
is how a New York paper speaks of Trickett:—“We
shall be glad to see Trickett here, and in spite of all that
has recently occurred, we believe him to be a very good
oarsman. The low, blackguard abuse of Trickett by one
or two who have denounced him and Laycock as ‘ Aus-
tralian roughs,’ has no force with us. We know of
nothing more deplorable than the ignorance, impu-
dence, and presumption of some Cockney roughs.” We
should imagine this will please Pendragon, of the
London Referee.
The Cootamundra cricketers have been caught
napping. They were the holders of the Cox Challenge
Cup, which should be played for only by district clubs,
the district being defined as within 100 miles from
Wagga. The Grenfell Club challenged Cootamundra
Club, and having defeated them, took away the cup.
The trophy gone, the wise men of Cootamundra began
to make inquiries, and it was found that Grenfell is a
long way out of the prescribed district. The matter is
too fax gone for any objection to be made. The men of
Cootamundra had better get into practice, and wrest
the trophy from Grenfell in another match before the
season closes.
The results of the Bathurst Tattersall’s meeting,
on Wednesday and Thursday, are as follow First day.
—Maiden Plate : Stilton 1, Juventas 2, Master Emg-
wood 3. Shorts Handicap: Stella 1, Speculation 2,
ClaymoreS. Bathurst Handicap: Saunterer I, Lord
Orville 2, Tattoo 3. Prince of Wales’Stakes: Unknown
1, Wagga Wagga 2, Cannonbar 3. Squatters’ Handicap:
Partner 1, Pluto 2, Drum Major 3.—Second Day.—Fly-
ing Handicap: Stella 1, Eosinante 2, Mazurka 3.
Autumn Handicap: Tattoo 1, Lord Orville 2, Velox 3.
Novel Eace: Unknown 1, Wagga Wagga 2, Napper
Tandy 3. Free Handicap: Juventas 1, Claymore 2,
Drum Major 3. Forced Handicap: Lord Orville 1, Joker
2, Juventas 3.
The results of the Bourke Jockey Club meeting
are as follow:—First day.—Maiden Plate: Leander 1,
Moonlight 2, Victory 3. Novel Handicap. Cadet 1,
Little King 2, Molong 3. Central Australian Handicap:
Emily 1, Hanlan 2, Dundee 3. Handicap Hurdle Eace:
Kangaroo 1, Fidget 2, Claremont 3. Ladies’ Mile : Car-
melite 1, Snowdrop 2, Cadet 3. Hack Eace : Grisette 1,
Swallow 2, Stumpy 3. Second day.—Flying Handicap:
Vagabond 1, Snowdrop 2. Stockman’s Purse: Elk 1,
Diver 2, Little Mark 3. Bourke Jockey Club Handicap:
Poverty 1, Dundee 2, Vagabond 3. Handicap Steeple-
chase : Kangaroo 1, Brownlock 2. Members’ Handicap :
Poverty 1, Dundee 2. Forced Handicap : Mailtrain 1,
Vagabond 2, Glengarry 3.
The general settling of the late meeting of the
A.J.C., took place satisfactorily at TattersalTs, on
the 25th April. The-following were the prizes paid:—
Mr. W. Branch, £2204; Mr. Chimside, £1149 3s; Hon.
J. P. Bell, £481; Mr. F. Wentworth, £474; Hon. J.
White, £403; Mr. J. Morrison, £301; Mr. E. Lee
£260; Mr. S. Knight, Mr. Mayo, £221 18s; Mr.
W. Forrester, £191; Mr. E. Jellett, £165; Mr. G.
Donnelly, £150; Mr. C. T. Eoberts, £125; Mr. E. De
Mestre, £110; Mr. W. Kelso, £56; Mr. J. Ashworth,
£5O; Mr. S. Harding, £4O 19s; Mr. W. A. Long, £4O;
Mr. C. M'Donald, £2O; Mr. T. Chimside, £2O; Mr. W.
Wellmen, £2O; Mr. W. E. Eoyds, £2O; Mr. H. C.
Dangar, £2O; Mr. H. Mortimer, £2O-r-total, £6775.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club celebrated
the termination of the season by an excursion to Athol
Gardens. The high wind that prevailed during the run
down prevented the contemplated evolutions. The
Commodore (Mr. S. H, Hyam,) sailed in the Carlotta,
and the smart little steamer, Agenoria, conveyed a
number of ladies and gentlemen to Athol. After ample
justice had been done to an excellent cold collation,
toasts became the order of the day. Cemmodore Hyam,
in responding to the toast of his health, was most
heartily received. The prizes won during the season
were then presented. A neat souvenir was also given to
Mr. Dietrich in recognition of his services as honorary-
secretary. Next season will be inaugurated about
September.
An important sale of racehorses took place at
Fennelly’s on the 25th April, when the following horses
changed owners: —Wheatear, to Captain Osborne for
1050 guineas, (this grandly-shaped son of Epigram
and Wheatsheaf is to go into T. Lamond’s stable to be
prepared for his spring engagements); Bond Or, to Mr.
Euam, for 50 guineas; Eosine, to Mr. W. Southall, for
105 guineas; Gipsy Cooper, to Mr. W. Forrester, for 200
guineas; the Wandering Jew, to Mr. Maitland, for 310
guineas; Emulation, to Mr. C. Eoberts, for 210 guineas;
Canary, to Mr. M. Jacobs, for 650 guineas; a chesnut
colt, by Eeprieve from Medora (imported) to Mr. E.
Weeks, for 55 guineas; Eeview, to Mr. E. Weeks, for7o
guineas; Harmony, to Mr. E. Weeks, for 85 guineas;
Bachelor, to Mr. Weeks, for 51 guineas; and Kildare,
to Mr. W. Brown, for 32 guineas.
The Sydney bicycle club had its first run on the
opening of the season, to Botany. The start was
effected from the Kailway Station, where a great crowd
of persons had assembled to witness the meet. Pour-
teen bicyclists attended. The route taken was along
Devonshire-street into Gastlereagh-st. When midway
between Devonshira-st. and Cleveland-st. a halt was
effected, so as to allow of the riders falling into the
order of two deep. The journey was then resumed
along Cleveland-st., Pitt-st., and Eedfern-st. into the
Botany Eoad and on to Botany against a very strong
head-wind. At Botany refreshments were provided,
and success to the club drunk. The members then
adjourned to the pavilion, where bicyclistic evolutions
were indulged in. The order for returning was given,
and the excursionists arrived in Sydney shortly after
dusk, having spent a most enjoyable day.
The eleventh annual general meeting of the
Sydney Bowing Club was held at the Exchange Hotel
on the evening of the 27th ult. The report was very
satisfactory. A new outrigger four, built by E. S.
Fuller, of Melbourne, and a string-test gig, built by
Donnelly and Sullivan, of Sydney, have been added to
the club property. The number of boats amounts to
29. Four new skiffs are in course of building by
Burnett. A portion of the Sydney shed has had to be
removed to make room for the Government road, en-
tailing considerable expense upon the club. £558 has
been received as subscriptions, and the overdraft of
£384 has been increased to £458. The Hon, G.
Thornton, M.L.C., was elected President, and Messrs.
T. Jj, Dibhs and Q. L. Deloitte, Vice-Presidents. Mr.
P. J. Clark was re-elected Captain, Mr. C. Deloitte hon.
Secretary, Mr. J. G. J. Bennett, hon. Treasurer. The
following gentlemen were elected as committee :
Messrs. J. Arthur, W. G. Anslow, W. Cope, J. E.
Myers, A. J. Souter, W. P. Simpson, J. Thomson,
H. C. .Doyle, and E. P. Simpson.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The manager of a Grafton bank won a ,£4OO
prize in one of the Sydney leviathan’s big sweeps. He
held Stratheam It is a somewhat curious fact that
a sire and his son—Rapid Bay and Misteltoe respec-
tively—won races at Rand wick this meeting Mr.
Frank Norrie is president, and Mr. G. W. Foott secre-
tary and treasurer of the Grafton Football Club this
season The University boathouse at Oxford was
recently burned, and forty valuable boats destroyed.
The loss is calculated to he £2OOO It does not look
well to see the name of poor R. C. Bagot still appended
to the Y.R.C. advertisements in the Melbourne papers
of their July winter steeplechase meeting The Tas-
manian football season will commence in the early part
of May. Several Melbourne clubs will probably pay
Tasmania a visit during the season. The Hobart
players are not deficient in skill, but are a very light
lot Mata, it is said, goes to India, where the Y.R.C.
disqualification will not be noticed Midwinter, who
left by the Lusitania, will, it is said, return in October
next, and _ settle down in one of the colonies —most
likely in Victoria At Ballarat a four-oar crew from
the “ Holloway” Dramatic Company heat a crew from
the ' Pinafore” Company easily In a match for £2O a
side, a mile and a half, on Lai Lai racecourse, Vic.,
Cracksman, Bst. 71b., beat Cavanagh’s Sir Richard, 7st.
71b., by two lengths .Harry Grubb, who was one of
the best light-weights in Sydney a few years back, has
taken to fencing. He should be amongst the best
steeplechase riders in Melbourne The settling in
connection with Byrnes’ Sydney Gold Cup seance took
place on the 27th at Brisbane. The first prize of £657
went to Charters Towers; the second, £230, and third,
£9B, to Brisbane Black Swan goes to Melbourne to
interview King of the Ring...... The Wellington Annual
Races will take place on May 12th and 13th...... Mr. E.
W. Aldridge has been appointed Secretary of Tatter-
sail’s Club, South Australia A race ball was held at
Bourke Court House on Friday night. There was a
numerous attendance Sir Thomas Elder’s horses,
from South Australia, have arrived in London in excel-
lent condition Mr. E. Barton, M,P., this season
gives the Redfern Football Club a gold trophy for the
best all-round play; Mr. W. J. Baker gives a gold trophy
for the second team, and thesecretary donates a trophy
to the player who shall secure most goals by drop kicks.
An all-comers’ handicap race of £l4 10s is on the
programme of the Manchester Unity picnic at Walls-
end on May 24th Turner and Neild row at Newcastle
to-day (Saturday) in watermen’s boats, for £5 aside.
George Priddle, who has a reputation as an amateur
sculler, offers to row Martin Jordan a straight-away
race at Raymond Terrace, in light skiffs, for £5O aside.
Messrs. W. Smith and 0. Tucker, of the Adelphi
and Metropolitan Hotels, Maitland, jointly an-
nounce a day’s coursing for Queen’s Birthday.
They offer liberal prizes Shorter is matched
for the English championship with J. Bennett
(champion). Richards has challenged the winner
There are various “consultations” on the Handicap
to be run at Parramatta on Queen’s Birthday Grand
Flaneur, sold for £5OOO, has won £7945 in stakes alone.
The Victorian Rowing crew are to be entertained at
a dinner on 10th May The Hon. J. White’s bay
horse, Roodee, full brother to Chester, has been sold
for 1000 guineas The Haidee won the yacht race at
Brisbane on Saturday last. The Amy broke her bow.
sprit while leading The third-class yacht race at
Adelaide on Saturday, was won by the Phillopotta, the
Ada second, and the Trio third. A special race for
smaller yachts was won by the Gazelle against the
Psyche...... The Austrian Band played at the Oval at
Adelaide on Saturday, when the final match of the
cricket season took place. Over 2000 persons were
present For following the Intercolonial boat-race
in defiance of the regulations, the master of the Prince
of Wales, was on 27th ult., fined £6 lls 6d, with £3 9s
costs—in default fourteen days. The "tenner” was
paid out of the profits of the transaction. Mr. D.
O’Connor, M.L.A., is to be proceeded against to-day
(Thursday) for having followed in a launch At
Gympie, on 25th ult., Joe Julian of N.S.W., lost his
race with J. Murphy, a local man, by stumbling. How-
ever, he ran his man to a foot, and after the race
offered to run anyone in Gympie for £lOO from 100 to
300yds. The Gympieites are inclined to let him alone.
A proposal has been made at a meeting of the Vic-
torian Rowing Association, that the Victorian eight-oar
crew be presented with the oars used in the contest —a
practice adopted by the Universities of Oxford and
Cambridge Annual races at Wellington, 12th and
13th May The second prize in the big Wanganui
(N.Z.) sweep was won by a young man named Wilkin-
son, now awaiting his trial for embezzlement. It is a
curious coincidence that the second prize in this sweep
was won a year or two ago by a prisoner of the Crown.
A match was arranged for last Saturday, on the
St. Leonards’ Reserve, between the St. Leonards and
Derwent Clubs. The former were all on their ground
and waited for their opponents, who, however, neither
showed up nor sent any excuse. On the same day the
Derwents played the Aruhdels The Victorian inter-
colonial eight are to be entertained at dinner at Mel-
bourne on the 16th inst.
Tommy Corrigan.
One of the papers remarks that a Kandwiek steeple-
chase is getting to be rather a serious piece of business,
eight horses having come to grief out of nine starters
on Saturday week, and the ninth having won the race.
The journal in question wants to know whether the
fences are too high and too close together, or whether
the horses and jockeys are to blame. Well, the opinion
on this subject of Tommy Corrigan, the rider of Lady
Eipon, who won, may be worth giving. Though Chifney
is the most dashing of Australian riders, Corrigan is the
safest, coolest, steadiest, and most determined cross-
country jock that ever got into the pigskin here—that
is to say, he is the man above all others who in a race
always minds his own business his horse np
and going. He is, anyhow, the luckiest man we have
yet seen go over the big sticks, for he has ridden and
won innumerable races, and has never had a bone
broken. _ He said before the event that Helmet and
Lady Ripon were in his opinion the only really good
cattle in the steeplechase—a tip fully borne out by the
result. The only horse which could reasonably have
been expected to stand up was Helmet and he came
down owing to another horse cannoning against him.
Lady Ripon had to be “nursed” over the last few
jumps, for though fast on the flat she was deficient in
propelling power. Both she and Helmet were bred in
the Western district of Victoria and the two riders are
Soiithem men. Corirgan has mental qualifications
which peculiarly fit him for his profession, but his
physical condition also gives him " the pull ” over most
jockeys. He at no time weights over Bst., and as he
never rides on the flat he is never called upon to
“ waste.” He is a short man of great muscular de-
velopment, with particularly powerful arms and chest.
Marquis of Lome, that great horse Lone Hand, Hima-
laya, Mr. Goyder’s splendid horse Sussex, and many
°^^ r _ s^e ®Pl ec^asers achieved their principal victories
with Corrigan in the saddle. He is a native of Ireland,
came to the colony while very young, and learned to
ride while in the employ of that good and well-known
sportsman, Mr. Frank Tozer, of Wangoom, Warrnam-
bool. Corrigan, it will be remembered, piloted Cruiser to
victory in the steeplechase at A.J.C’s. Autumn meeting
last year.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Gaelic has not died out in Victoria yet. Alter-
nate services in that language and- in English were
lately held at Branxholme.
In the South Seas, Christianity is nicknamed
by the Islanders “ The Oil Religion," so much oil being
required to propitiate the Almighty.
A copy of the Old Testament Scriptures, printed
at Metz by Guttenberg in 1452, the oldest Bible known,
was recently sold in London for £790.
Carlyle once said: “I dislike all pictures of
Christ; you will find that men never thought of paint-
ing Christ until they had begun to lose the impression
of Him in their hearts.”
Rev. Mr. Waterhouse and son, and the Revs.
Messrs. Armitage, Mitchell, and Richardson, delegates
to the Wesleyan Conference at Adelaide, are among
those lost in the wreck of the Tararna.
The C. of E. Record “ believes that the d*y
will come when these institutions (the museum, &c.,)
will be closed on Sunday, if not upon the ground of
principle, as a matter of public policy.”
The Eev. Father Geoghegan was the first E.C.
minister who officiated in Victoria, and he offered the
first Mass in Melbourne, on the 19th May, 1839, on the
site where the new Colonial Bank is now going up.
The Protestant Standard calls upon the
Temperance and Orange societies and the general public
to subscribe the £2OO costs incurred by the Rev. Dr.
M’Gibbon in defending the recent libel action. Hurley
v. M'Gibbon.
The Rev. James Cosh, M.A., of Balmain, has
been nominated for the office of Moderator by the
Presbytery of Illawarra; and the Rev. A. Armstrong,
M.A., of Tamworth, by the Monaro and New England
Presbyteries.
The Committee of the Sydney Temperance Hall
have gone the length of refusing to the “ Brethren ”
the further use of the hall, on Sundays, for their meet-
ing for “ breaking of bread,” because they use ordinary
wine at communion!
The Rev. Charles Strong has been let off by the
Melbourne Presbytery with an admonition, in the
spirit of brotherly kindness, to make certain essential
doctrinal points more prominent in his future utter-
ances. Compromise I
A resident of one of the eastern suburbs, who is
an Anglican and a supporter of his parish church, was
unable for some time last week to obtain the services
of a clergyman to bury his dead child. He finally got a
clergyman belonging to another parish.
The Protestant Standard says:—“lt was
only the other day that a certain very wealthy Church
of England layman in this city refused Bishop Barker
a subscription. The same Protestant (?) gentleman has
since given to Dr. Vaughan a large subscription for St.
Mary’s Cathedral.”
Says last week’s Howl :—“ At Saint Surprise’s,
last Monday evening, there was a grand fandango in
honour of the patron saint. By-the-bye, apropos of that
church, some novices, reading the “ Lives of the
Saints,” asked whether the letter “p ” had not been a
misprint in the name of 11 St. Thomas a Kempis.”
We have the authority of the Protestant
Standard for saying that the reason the curate of St.
Mark’s, Darling Point, is leaving for Queanbeyan, is not
the state of his wife’s health, but the insufficiency of
funds to pay the curate’s stipend. The church (says
the Standard) shows a deficit of over £2OO on the
current account of the year.
Mr. John S. Shearston, an earnest worker, has
undertaken a mission to seamen visiting this port. Mr.
Shearston is understood to be in communication with
the English sailor’s friend, Mr. Samuel Plimsoll, and
has for some time past furnished officers and sailors
with a** monthly letter.” His mission will be super-
vised by the Eev. Archdeacon King.
The Rev. E. J. Spicer— who has caused so much
sensation by his “ High ’’ jinks at that fashionable fane.
All Saints’ Church of England, St. Kilda, Melbourne,
during the absence of the incumbent, the Rev. J. H.
Gregory, in England—is a very young man, and but re-
cently ordained. He received his clerical education in
Adelaide, and at Trinity College, Melbourne.
The Australian Churchman waxeth sar-
castic. Says one of its writers :—“ X observe an adver-
tisement in a Sydney daily, headed ‘No paper like the
Protestant Standard,* and, with a fervent ‘thank
goodness!’ I say, • how true.’ As a motto for the
Standard’s editor I would suggest:—
—Let railing Rabsheka have place;
So full of zeal, he hath no need of grace!
Two Jewish brothers, named Kolb, are Sble
legatees of the fortune, amounting to 13£ million dol-
lars, of the American Archbishop Kolb, who died some
years ago. When the will of the deceased was opened,
a great sensation was caused in the United States by
the fact that the Archbishop (who had been originally a
Jew) had bequeathed his entire property to his two
brothers, whose whereabouts were unknown to the
testator.
Athanasius Contra Mundum,” writing to the
C. of E. Record, enquires on what authority some of
the clergy neglect to recite the Athanasian creed on the
days prescribed, and use in its place the Apostles’
Creed. He suggestively adds: “we all remember the
movement which took place in England some time ago,
having for its object the removal of this Creed from
the service. It came to nothing, the Creed still occu-
pies its original place, and the Rubric—stubborn
Rubric—commands its use.”
The C. of E. Record is up in arms against the
new Liberal Association. It says that “it will be an
unhappy day for N.S.W. when the association recently
formed in the Unitarian Hall gains an influence upon
the people of the colony, and the so-called freedom is
prevalent amongst us. We could say farewell to every-
thing that is holy and true, and prepare for miseries
which have overtaken other lands where similar
principles have operated. We solemnly warn our
readers against this combination.” And, by the way,
it’s not so long since a certain revd. gentleman
“ solemnly warned ” his hearers against The Bulletin.
For America, a first edition of the revised ver-
sion of the New Testament (500,000 copies) has been
prepared in England, and 100,000 copies have been re-
ceived in New York none of which, however, are
permitted to be sold until leave is given by the reverend
holders of the copyright. The first copies, it is said,
will bo sold at the extravagant price of ten dollars a
copy nearly two guineas. An American firm intends,
however, to put the entire book into type within 24
hours from the time a printed copy of the English
edition can be procured, and within three days at least
10,000 copies will be bound ready for delivery, and 5000-
copies a day are promised afterwards. It will form a
volume of 500 pages, will be bound in cloth, and sold,
for 151.


Tailors, Drapers
fjl H 0
MPS 0 N AN
DENISON SOUS
358, 360, 362, George-i
OPENING NEW GC
for
WINTER SEASC
EVERY DAY DURING TH
FIRST GENERAL S
of
NOVELTIES
FANCY DRESSI
FOE THE WINTER S
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO <
FRENCH CASHMERE CAMBI
DOVER HOMESPUN INDRI
ELASTIC BIEGE ANGOI
KASGHER CASHMERE JERSE
STOCKINGETTE VALPi
AND A LARGE ASSORTMEI
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY. —I
cases of very <
ERY, somethii
handsome, dire
houses in Lond<
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPART
SILK, Rich Ve
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES, 1
SILKS, in a var
BLACK SATIN :
inches wide, 3s
6s lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and strc
for wear, and fii
BLACK VELVE
NAUCUNIUM.gi
every yard star
BLACK SATINS
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d, I
are light and so
under usual :
SILK VELVE 1
every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MENT of all
LACES in eve
imitation, Emhi
Ruffling, Mode
Cuffs, Collarei
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace 1
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
r? > 1 N we
FROM DRESS
he no deceptr
washed. Ladi
Sheetings good
makes. Prices
to Is lid ; 80-ii
inch. Is 6d to 2s
to 3s. America
& Horrocks’ Ci
QUILTS, from
prices. Colon
QUILTS, 24 loi
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 and
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN'
been our study
this class of t
character. By
year after year
of FIRST-CLAS
are now showii
ment of of DA]
NAPKINS, hot
Damask. Thes
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We c
MASK CLOTI
425; 5-BNAPK
3-4 NAPKINS
29s 6d; DAI
<a round or square
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 2
SHEETINGS, i
PILLOW LINI
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, fron
cording to size
ISH TOWELS,
Tailors, Drapers
J.
MEN
BELMORE HOU
205 Pitt-street,
MILLINER, UNDEECLOTHIEE,
AND AETIPICIAL F]
Very pretty BONNETS and HAT
velvet, cream, and black Spanii
Beautiful MILLINERY SETS in
The new TOQUE, COLLAE, and
40s. the set; made of best plusl
Novelties in HEAD - DEESSEI
FLOWEES.
161
TEEMS —CASE
KING S TEE E
(Near Tramway
MADAME WEIG
PAPEE PATTERNS of DEESSEI
cut in different sizes for Ladie
nished with illustrations and d
up. Sold at prices ranging fro
styles monthly in WEIGEL
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by i
annum, post free. Catalogu
Patterns sent to any part of th«
of price and measure. Postage
ADDEESS:
MADAME WEI
161 KING STEEI
SYDNEY.
Business Aunounc
S
[.LEGAL. J
HOETEE, FITZGEEALD
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUAEIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary j
Legal.— Mr. t. m. e
SOLICITOR, has ooi
W
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite i
News Office.
MAC
POETEAIT PAD
225 BOUEKE STREET, WOO!
M
EYE E S &
LICENSED SURVEYORS, J
AND
GENERAL DEAUGBi
M'Cot’s Chambers, No. 16
Are prepared to execute all orders
terms. Also, CALIGRAPHIC an
WORK of style unparalleled. Spe
OHEAPEST AND BES'.
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA!
HAY STREET, HAYM
TEA, Is per lb
Other articles equally ehes
packed and delivered free
FIREWORK
FIREWORKS ! FI
PUBLIC NOTI
rfIHE UNDERSIGNED
A POINTED SOLE AGENT
ATLAS BRAND PRIZE L
WORKS, manufactured by tb
turing Company (Limited), Pyr
Majesty the Queen and the 1
ment.
MYERS and
These JUSTLY CELEBRATE
which have now been before the
twenty years, are NOW ON SALE
To meet the increasing demand for
day, we have imported 100,000 Or
ATLAS BRAND FIREWORKS, cc
which will be sold at Is. 9d. and 2s
ROYAL ATLAS B]
PRIZE LONDON PD
MYERS AND SI
Sole Wholesale Aj
SQUIBS
PIN WHEELS
BLUE DEVIL
GOLDI
BLUE CANDLES
CHINESE TREES
FLOWER P
DO
PRINCE OF WALES’ F
Is. 9d. per gross
The above Ten Kinds, Double Size
same assortment as abo
superior.
TRIPLE SIZE, Bs. per gross,
and Roman Candles.
THROW-DOWN CRACKERS, i
x Gross, 4s. per box.
FIRE BALLOOI
65., 125., 245., 365., and 60s
CHINESE FIREW
CHINESE CRACKERS. 40 packet
EXTRA SUPERIOR CHINESE <
40 packets in box, red box, 6s
Tom Thumb Chinese Crackers, 40
strings in packet, 6s. per doz,
CHINESE GUNS, extra superior
Bs. dozen packets
Serpents
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
COUNTRY ORDERS faithfully executed.
Winter Requisites just in time. Bought to open
May Ist. Waterproofs, Children and Ladies’, from
4s. 6d. to 25a. Long Jackets, ss. to 455.
DOLMAN’S VARIOUS PlECES—Winter Skirts in
Felt and Quilted Alpaca. Wool Goods of all Kinds,
as Cuffs, Boas, Fischns, Wrappers, and Seal, Monkey,
and other Muffs. ,
A Nice Lot of Trillings, Fringes, Girdles, Plushes,
Velvets, Velveteens, Laces, Hosiery and Corsets,
Household Drapery.
In the item of Dress Materials and Dressmaking,
WE CAN PLEASE YOU.
Winter Millinery now showing. First-class Dress-
making. Country Customers send P. 0.0.
Our own Registered Glove —
2 Buttons 4 Buttons 6 Buttons
In the Shop ... 2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
Posted ... ... 3s 4s 5s
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET 656
(Just below Liverpool-street).
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates. Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 King Steeet, Sydney (two doors from George-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The misses gib b,
(Late with Messrs. David Jones and Co.),
52, MARGARET STEEET,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Three Doors from Mr. J. Spencer, Dentist,
Have much pleasure in announcing that they are about
to open Mantles Millinery, and specialities suitable for
Ladies for the Autumn Season. An early inspection is
respectfully solicited.
52. MARGARET STEEET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
■JgLISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,"
No. 12 PARK STEEET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
66 TT IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT” THAT
A for Household or Family Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s” Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porium on the Brickfield H 1 has “ No Rival,” either
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock.
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening out
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
GEO. L. LINEKER,
HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOR,
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work-
manship, &e., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give meia trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
N.B.—TWO DOORS PROM GEORGE STREET.
OTICE TO THE PUBLIC.
SUITS TO ORDER, 60s.
R. C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
127 KING STEEET,
Where you can be fitted with the most fashionable and
cheapest Outfit in the Colony.
Note the Extraordinary Cheap Prices for Suits made
from the best of Scotch Tweeds, in Five-button sac pat-
tern, to Order, 50s.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Bannockurn Tweed Suits, to Order, 50s
Cheviot Tweed Suits, to Order 50s
Trousers to Order Trousers to Order Trousers to Order
16s 6d 16s 6d 16s 6d
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d
Canadian Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6s
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s fid
Homespun Tweed trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
N.B. —Gentlemen should inspect this stock of choice
Scotch Suitings, as the above prices for Suits to Order at
50s are usually made in the City at 70s.
Note the Address —
127 KING STREET.
m
set
%
CL
<2
v
2


Hotels, &c.
LD EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOE BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIEE, Proprietor.
Ma. GO 0 D,
• PARK HOTEL, PARRAMATTA,
(immediately opposite the domain gates).
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines and Spirits, of the
best brands, at the lowest possible prices. Picnic
parties therefore would do well not to burden them-
selves by bringing the same.
c.
W. E 0 B E E T S,
MARKET STREET,
FOE FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEEBS.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAPE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mona.
Marriette, late chfff de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Mossrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30, 1880.
lOMPAGNONI PALACE CAPE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FREED
and
OYSTE IS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
THE
£Jity (Jatering (Jompany,
315 GEORGE STREET,
LATE
“ HARRIS’ ” CAFE, Opposite Peapes and Shaw,
Are now prepared to undertake the Catering and
Management of Balls, Banquets, Dinners, Wedding
Parties, Picnics, Tea Meetings, Luncheons, &c., &c.,
on the shortest notice and most reasonable terms.
Among the waiters attending will be found the old
favourites, and civility and attention.
The Gentlemens Cafe and Restaurant, and also the
Ladies Refreshment Rooms, wiil be open in a few days.
has. r. Smith, .
MANAGER.
rp 0 ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal.
de
or
ft
EB
MU
SMI
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS.
HENNESSY’S HOTEL,
RUTHVEN-STREET, TOOWOOMBA.
The above is, without exception, the LARGEST and
MOST COMMODIOUS HOTEL in the whole of the
Darling Downs and Western! Districts.
A large and well-constructed Hotel has been a great
want in’Toowoomba, and that want is now supplied in
HENNESSY’S HOTEL.
The Coffee and Dining Rooms are large and roomy,
and are well furnished. There are over 20 single bed-
rooms, besides family apartments. All the bed-rooms
are furnished with full bed-room suites. Private
apartments, with sitting rooms, for families.
To commercial gentlemen Hennessy’s Hotel offers
unusual advantages. Situated in the leading street of
the town, it is in the centre of all the banks and busi-
ness places, and only a short distance from the newly-
erected Public Buildings. A large SAMPLE ROOM,
specially for Commercial gentlemen, has been erected.
A large and well-ventilated BILLIARD ROOM,
fitted with a new billiard table of the latest design.
The Cuisine Department will be under the manage-
ment of a first-class cook.
The best best brands of Wines, Ales, and Spirits.
No effort or expense has been spared to make
Hennessy’s Hotel one of the best in Queensland.
The Bulletin and other Sydney and Melbourne
papers kept on the file. .
To Racing men Hennessy’s Hotel commends itself.
There are large, roomy stables and loose boxes.
Buggies and horses always on hire. A buggy will
meet all trains.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next comer
King-street. Established 1859,
I
Hotels,
Hotels, Sec.
IOBEET BUTCHEE & CO.,
I%i (Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Countbt Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office—3 WTNYARD STREET.
T
IHE
GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4-,
Distinguished by the Label
c
*4-
Mannfactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled "Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Jillichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
THE
TA E PIN G HI IX TUR E,
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made up into 11b and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places :
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M‘Donald, William-street,.Woolloomooloo
J. F. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M'Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenaue, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Eiley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C,, Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
E. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., comer of Crown and Devonshire-
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
T. E. Geddes, 823 George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Eokes, 571 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dunne, comer of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
D. Eldridge. Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M‘Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo
J, M‘Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Keehnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Gninery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Eedfem
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
E. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
D
AVID M * C A L L ,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
I
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
he Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
worv^
The BEST ALE and STOTT
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEP
MERCHANTS
VIRGOE, SON^AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
It is of the utmost importance t
bottle should be carefully cotnpar*
are being imported into New Sc
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevel
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKT
other brands, when they will fim
least 10 per cent, in favour of I
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,"aND
AGENTS.
T. * w A
• (Late ICOLLINS & R
SEATED WATERS, GI]
and
CORDIAL MANUPAl
438 HARRIS STREE
OSS AND
(Late Collins and R
iE R A T E D W
AND
CORDIAL MANUFAC
438 HARRIS STREE
R
First Prize, International Ex]
for Soda Watei
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lem
Ginger Beer, &
CORDIALS OP ALL
The Trade supplied with prompl
NOTE THE ADDR]
ROSS AND C
438 HARRIS STREET,
JgjASTEEN SPECIALITY
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
la on every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER T E
4
cs
rd
n
&
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C HA 6
2 BRIDGE STREET, S
IT is not the clearness or conditio
Ale that preserves this brand
mation. Common bitter crude been
bnt no other brand has tho same m
ter, the fulness on the palate, an
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Co
tore cautioned against traders who
extra profit represent the common
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J
CO., Sole Agents.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Tambour-Major Company have arrived in
Adelaide. There was a large crowd at the Melbourne
wharf to see them off. Amongst the ladies Miss Nellie
Hope carried off the p ilm for the number of her ad-
mirers, but the steamer generally was rushed by the
friends of the troupe NZ. panorama (Lingard and
Paterson’s) playing, at latest dates, with success at
Coolie’s circus, Dundee Madame Summerhayes at
Harmonic Hall, Nelson. Succes d’estime settlement......
H>. sell nay er at West Coast, N.Z., towns Morgan
Liouetroupe at Kumara The nigger vocal wheeze that
is at present taking New York by storm is called “Give
my chewing gum to sister.” Mr. J. O’Brien, Miss
Maggie Knight, and Miss Adele, recently playing in
Auckland, have left Christchurch for Dunedin, to join
the company engaged by De Lias to support Mr. and
Mrs. Carden. Miss Marston Leigh is a great suc-
cess; Mr. Carden only so-so Frederick Coppin
(George’s brother), who used to lead the orches-
tra of the Melbourne Theatre Royal, is dead
Miss A. L. Dargon (Mrs. Piercy) and the Doctor have
gone to Melbourne. Lucky Melbourne! The only
Leon packed the School of Arts at Lithgow on Wed-
nesday, 26th ultimo J. C. Williamson has taken the
Opera House, Melbourne, for the production next
month of “ The Pirates." Belfield Family at Grafton
in “William Tell.” New Music Hall building in
Brisbane Liddy took his “ben” at Brisbane last
Saturday. Great success. 100 performers A cor-
respondent of the Lyre complains of rude and frival-
ous (sic) conduct on part of two young ladies in the
dress circle of a Sydney theatre. Bosh 1....... We have
bad Drink here, an adaptation of “L’Assommoir,” and we
shall probably before long have “ Nairn,’’ the “suite”
also. The death-scene of the heroine is said to be quite
sickening in its realism Kelly’s benefit on Thursday
in Brisbane “took well.” Boema not a financial
success ia Adelaide Austrian Band contingent draw
well atTown Hall, Adelaide Miss Stammers benefited
at the Adelaide Royal on Friday night last. There
was a large and fashionable attendance..'....We hear
that a little Arthur Gamer is winging his flight to this
“ wicked world.” The Melbourne Theatre Royal is
to be fitted with American chairs. There will be more
than three chairs —we mean cheers —from the public
when this change is accomalished. The seats at present
would even render a dull piece “ lively." J- L. Hall
is playing Rip Van Winkle at the new theatre, Brisbane.
This piece is more a hobby with John than with his
audiences Tommy Hudson wrote us on Friday from
the Quarantine Ground, Manly. He was a passenger
by the Brisbane. We much admired the heading of his
note-paper. Tommy says he will call in a few days.
Joy! A burlesque on Tennyson’s new play, “The
Cup,” has been written by Burnand, entitled “ Hiccup."
Tennyson feels hurt Henry Hallam (husband of the
late Hattie Shepparde), in Loudon —at liberty Jose-
phine Fiddes (Mrs. Dim. Murray) is at Prince of Wales
Theatre, Chester lima di Murska and Susini with
Campobello Opera Company, in Cork at beginning of
last March The N.Y. papers sa\ that George Darrell
is possessed of “admirable personal and magnetic
qualities." “Zulu” Thompson is to.be summoned
in Victoria for his gift distribution Raphael’s Opera
Company play in Warrnambool next month An
apron of fig-leaves is actually introduced as a woman’s
garment in “The Black Venus,” N.ST. The exhibition is
one of the coarsest and most indecent ever hazarded
on the stage The Lynch Family of Bellringers drew
crowded houses at Carcoar and Blayney last week.
They are now billed for Bathurst and Orange Mdme -
Rose Hersee is expected in London in May Kowal-
ski’s opera of “ Vercingetorix” is to be produced in
Melbourne shortly Mr. A. Inglis, who preceded
Mr. Seagrave, at the Rockhampton Royal, took a
successful benefit at the close of his season. The
pieces played were “ B.B.” and “ Alladdin.” At
latest dates Mr. and Mrs. Morton Tavares were about
playing “ Still Waters run Deep " at Cooktown. They
did well at Mackay and the Towers Mr. and Mrs.
Hewett and their company (including Miss Beatrice
and D’Orsay Ogden) have been fairly successful at
Rockhampton The Empsoms are at Terrara The
“ N. Z. Star Dramatic Company” are at Grafton
“ Caste ” has been produced—the local papers say suc-
cessfully—at Rockhampton, ilnder the auspices of
Maggie Oliver and W. H. Seagrave, at present lessees
of the local theatre. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Emmet
(Marion Melrose) were among the performers The
Leon Company had a big house at Carcoar Mr. W.
Ball, the original “ Dick Deadeye," as far as the
colonies are concerned, again assumes the character at
the Royal this week, when “ Pinafore” takes the place
of the Pirates Leon’s Circus is at Dubbo.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The last performance of the “Flying Scud”
took place at the Queen’s Theatre on Friday evening
last—the piece having run for a few nights. We chose
the final representation because we wished to see the
performers at their best, and enjoy the dialogue unin-
terrupted by the scuffle of the stage-manager’s feet and
the hoarse whisper of the prompter. “ The Flying
Scud,” as, probably most of our readers know, is
a sensational four-act play “ Boucicaulted ’’ from Mr.
Charles Carlos Clarke’s sporting novel of that name,
to the existence of which work, however, “the great
adapter,” with characteristic modesty, has always ab-
stained from alluding. That “sporting” dramas are
all more or less inane, is a fact which every experienced
playgoer must admit, and “The Flying Scud”, cer-
tainly, does not stand out in contradistinction to other
dramas of the same category in this regard. On the
contrary, even as “Formosa" (recently gently
treated in the columns of this journal) is ineffable bosh
as a delineation of the doings of the aquatic fraternity,
so is “ Thd Flying Scud ” execrable rubbish in its re-
presentations of horses, turfites, and their entourage.
* * *
But even were a so-called “realistic play” a
cleverer literary production, and better acted than “The
Flying Scud” as performed at the Queen’s Theatre,
it would fail, because that house does not possess either
the stage-room or the necessary mechanical appliances
for the adequate representation of pieces with “ heavy
sets.” and sensational tableaux. Thus the scene repre-
senting a modern gaming-house would have answered
with the addition of a couch and two clean table-cloths, *
almost equally well for the bed-chamber of Imogen,
in “ Cymbeline ; ” while the scene supposed to repre-
sent “ Dover Sands ” would, with a .windmill added,
serve admirably as “ open country ” —with a fog in the
distance. We will undertake to wager that if the
company at present performing at the Queen’s enact
(which we. entreat them not to do) Shakspeare’s
“ Macbeth,” we shall have these self-same flats labelled
“ A heath,” and the three weird sisters will disport
themselves thereon. The race-scene was an astonishing
effort. The artist had evidently been limited by the
management as to the number of his colours, for while he
had conscientiously painted the sward a pronounced
sea-green, he coloured the grand stand at Epsom all
over a light purple. Distinguished artists, we know,
disagree on points of detail; still, though Mr. George
Kelly (the creator of this remarkable picture) may hold
views antagonistic to those of Mr. Millais respecting
pre-Kaphaelism, he should remember that the limited
size of the Queen’s Theatre necessitates a greater
attention to finish than would be required in a scenic
effect at a large house. We trust this gentleman will
take our remarks in good part. We expect he will do
better than his Epsom Downs scene. This expectation
on our part is based on the assumption that he couldn’t
do anything worse if he tried.
* * *
Before the little card-board horses commenced
to bob across the stage, the audience was treated to a
number of Derby Day entertainments. A gentleman
named H. Warner came on suddenly and sang the well-
known vocal absurdity, “ Lardy-dah.” Before hearing
Mr. Warner’s interpretation of the lyric, we were
under the impression that it was a very funny song
indeed ; but after listening to that gentleman, we are
of opinion that, with the exception, perhaps, of “ Nelly
B'y,” it is the most dismal dirge in the language. Mr.
Warner has a good appearance; but, so far as we can
judge, he is not adapted for comic singing. What he
■is adapted for we do not pretend to have fathomed.
Some nice light little thing in the mute line, perhaps,
would suit him. Two boys called the Little Permans
succeeded Mr. Warner, and danced such a long sand
jig that fx-oin little Permans they seemed to become
little Perman-eneies. At the conclusion of the dance (in
the course of which the elder one lost his shoe, and the
younger his presence of mind), some Yandal in the pit
(one of their relations possibly) indulged in applause,
whereupon the boys danced the whole thing over again.
However, they are rather clever little things, only it is
possible to have too much of even a clever little thing.
* * *
The house was a miserable one, there being
hardly any one in the stalls, and the circle appeared to
be thronged with dead-heads. It cannot surely be
otherwise considered than as a mistaken policy on the
part of the management to allow these “ beats” to
usurp all the best places long before the performance
begins, and reduce the paying portion of the audience
to standing behind the circle where they can see and
not hear, or sitting upon a side bench where they can
hear but not see. It is natural, of course, that the
“ perfesh" should be admitted gratis: yet the male
members of that honorable fraternity might with ad-
vantage, not only give the “patting" section of the
general public a chance for a seat, but refrain during the
performance from recapitulating their various triumphs
during the last quarter of a century.
* * *
The acting was uneven, but the play was
rendered, to a certain extent, remarkable by the extra-
ordinarily clever performance of Mr. Sweeny as Colonel
Mulligan, an Irish gambler, and one of the “ quadru-
ped." This was an impersonation brimful of humour,
and quite brought down the house. The part of Mr.
Davis (a kind of Israelitish Maior Jorum) was fairly
well played by Mr. W. Hoskins. With, however, Mr.
J. L. Hall’s masterly performance of Ezra Lazareck in
“ New Babylon” fresh in our memories, we possibly
were not so favourably impressed with Mr. Hoskins’s
Mo as we should have been had we never seen Hall’s
Lazareck. We do not purpose instituting any invi-
dious comparisons. We will merely remark that the
time has gone by for an actor of low comedy parts to try
and gain a laugh by appearing in chess-board pattern
pants and a coat with the waist nowhere. The comic
countryman has caught the blue-bottle on the stage for
two centuries, and he has now departed. It is a pity
he did not take his check trousers with him. With re-
gard to the rest of the “ quadruped," Mr. W. Barry made
an indifferent Capt. Grindley Goodge, completely mistak-
ing the author’s idea. Mr. Barry was all loudness and
bluster, whereas he is supposed to be a cool, calculating
man of the world. As “ the villain double-dye” in the
“ Bleeding Nun of Nuremberg," where he has to carry
off a woman with one hand, do the “ one, two, three, and
under business” with the “supes." with the other, he
would have been superb, while as Goodge, who is un-
fortunately required to do neither of these things, Mr.
Barry was only a qualified success. Mr. Lester’s
Choucer was a fairly intelligent rendering of a compara-
tively thankless part.
» * *
As Lord Woodbie, Mr. Arrowsmith was pains-
taking but a little too stiff, and he has apparently made
the mistake of modelling his impersonation of “ his lord-
ship,” after one of the nobles to be found in such pro-
fusion in the Bow Bells novelettes. However, he did
his best, and the best, as we all know can do no more.
Mr. E. D. Haygarth was capital as Nat Gosling, as was
also Mr. J. P. O’Neil in the part of Bill Bloater. The
same cannot unfortunately be said of Mr. Stoneham’s
Tom Meredith, and Mr. Sterling White as Quail was
not Quail on toast, but Quail on pins and needles.
* • *
Miss Marian Willis looked charming as Kate
Rideout, but beyond this was a mere walking lady.
Miss Willis has not been fortunate in her selection of
characters since she has been amongst us, and we are
anxiously awaiting for her to exhibit, in a congenial part,
some of that histrionic power with which she comes to
us so strongly accredited. Miss Montague was amusing
as Julia Latimer, and Miss Grace Henriques danced a
jockey's hornpipe in cords and boots to the inexpres-
sible delight of the pitites. The Lady Woodbie of Miss
M. A. Melville was a dismal failure. The long run of
“ Qnilp ” at the Gaiety has operated very unfavourably
against this lady’s acting, since she can neither put off
the mannerisms of Mrs. Jiniwin, nor speak in any other
voice than that of Mrs. Jarley. We recommend Miss
Melville a course of severe study under say the (appar-
ently) immortal William, as that alone can cure her of
confirmed faults in voice and bearing which seriously
militate against her attaining success, no matter what
character she may assume.
• # •
“ After Dark,” another Boucicanltism, was pro-
duced at this house on Saturday night last, with Miss
Willis as Eliza, and Mr. W. Hoskins as Old Tom; but
we haven’t room for an extended notice.
* * * *
The production of “Maritana” at the Gaiety
Theatre is a theatrical incident which calls for special
mention. We attended on Monday last, when, the
principals having recovered from their hoarseness,
there was a reprise of the piece. The house, despite the
inclement weather, was crowded, and it is a significant
proof of the hold Mr. and Mrs. Turner have established
on the Sydney public, that all the other places of
amusement on that Aw and muggy evening were but
poorly attended. The ladies mustered in great force,
and the “books" rallied round their own “Johnny” in
a manner which reminded one of the gathering of the
Campbell clans.
* « ♦ ,
“ Maritana,” though performed at the Gaiety
under many disadvantages, is an undoubted success.
This, however, is entirely due to the efforts of the
principals. The Don Caesar de Bazan of Mr. Charles
Turner is an impersonation of the very highest order of
merit. His singing throughout was in the last degree
artistic, and his acting in every portion of the opera
came quite up to the standard of —(here we borrow a
demoniac expression from the Moening Flicker) —to
his “ vocal rendition." The scene with his guards in
the second act was a most artistic piece of acting, as
also was his appeal to the King prior to the final de-
nouement. Every solo received a vociferous encore, and
every encore was smilingly declined. “ Farewell, my
noble Captain,” in the first, and “ Let me like a soldier
fall,” in the second act, were perhaps his most success-
ful efforts, although, as a matter of fact, it is difficult to
discriminate where all was so good. Mr. Turner dresses
admirably. His costume in the first act was, with its
ragged lace and well-worn trunks, strictly in accordance
with the unities. His other costumes were —as
they should be — very rich; and he drew his sword in a
manner “ equal to rial." Altogether, Mr. Turner’s Don
Ceesar is a thing to be seen; and this being the case,
doubtless the people will see it.
* * ♦
Miss Annis Montague, of course, played “ Mari-
tana,” and, despite perhaps the merest of
hoarseness, was a great success. Almost as robust in
form as the late Mdlle. Titiens, Miss Montague has, in
impersonating the lively Gitana, many drawbacks to
contend with. Her magnificent singing, however, over-
came every little physical disability, and she was ap-
plauded to the echo. And she looked charming. So
much so that people actually sympathised with the
King, and one “knight of the pencil" expressed to
another member of that honourable profession that “ it
was thunderin’ 'ard lines on him to be sent for by his
missis just as he was a commencin’ the runnin’.” The
gipsy dress in the first act was something to dream of,
and the pink satin costume in the third act, with its
“ excursion train,” completely “ knocked ” all the fair
spectators. Miss Montague is undoubtedly the best
Maritana we have ever heard—or seen—in Sydney, and
we should not be at all surprised if the lady were per-
fectly aware of the fact.
* * *
Mr. Farley sang the music of Don Joal well,
and dressed the port to perfection. Indeed, he did not
look like Mr. Farley at all—whereby he scored a decided
point. He was encored for “ In happy moments," but
on answering the recall merely butted at the audience
and disappeared through a practicable door on the
prompt side.
* • *
Miss Lambert, in a fair wig and violet tights,
was the Lazarillo of the evening, and looked as much
like a boy as Alderman Lees M.P.—bat let’s see, he was
defeated, wasn’t he?—does like a hero. Her singing
throughout was flat and metallic, and in no case did
she identify herself with the part.
* * *
Mr. A. Johnson played the comic Marquis, and
was about as funny, all things considered, as a colliery
explosion. The same may be said of Miss Sutherland,
who impersonated the comic Marchioness. Mr. Francis
was Captain of the Guard, and he did not impress us
very favourably: for besides having lent his voice to a
friend who had forgotten to return it, he had, by the
stiff manner in which he moved, evidently forgotten to
have his knee-caps oiled.
* * *
Mr. Gordon sang the music of the King of
Spain admirably, but acted the part like a card-board
nigger. He is, in short, a complete stick. His dress
was peculiar, as he seemed to consider it a mark of
royalty to have one tin trunk longer than another, and
to trice his sword hilt right up into his left arm-pit.
* » *
The chorus was excellent, and “ Bar to” the
veteran in great force. The lady who leads the female
choristers, however, would do well to tone herself down
a little. She should remember that the interest taken
in her by her personal friends in the pit is not much felt
by the occupants of the other portions of the house.
M. Leon Caron conducted with great care, and the
scene accessories were, all things considered, bright and
appropriate. On the whole “Maritana” is a treat.
* * * *
The last week of “ The Pirates ; ” the last week
of Verdi, the adored of the fair ones ; the last week of
delicious Armes—
Whose voice is sweet as summer breeze.
That floats a sighing o’er the billow,
That softly whispers through the trees—
When he's not left it 'neath his pillow.
Last week of Williamson, of the holy initials—
Of James, who, if he conld but sing.
Would be of op’ra-boufle the king.
Would list’ning ears of all enchant—
But then, you know, alas 1 he can’t.
Last week of
Elsa May—delicious Fay—
Who’s awful nice, good gracious!
But yet who’s a—forgive us, pray—
A trifle too vivacious.
Last week of Maggie Moore—
Accomplished Maggie, who does ne’er depart,
Without she leaves, ah! many a broken heart;
Down many a cheek the salted tear so warm
Will roll, bewailing thy long absent form!
The wounded breast—enough, now, of this strain—
Here’s luck I and mind you soon come back again.
Last week of Fanny Liddiard—be still, our beating
hearts!—
Last week of thee! then let the snn not shine.
The moon go out, and let the stars divine
No longer shine ont:
Let all be draped in black, and hang
From those gay halls where thou so sweetly sang,
Grim sorrow’s sign out 1
Good-bye! E’en as we pen this verse, we sniff,
And damp, with briny grief, our handkerchief.
Adieu, sweet lark!
In gravest confidence, we tell thee this.
And, if we dare to blow thee one last kiss.
Why —keep it dark!
* * *
After a final week of “ Pinafore,” the company
goes to the Australian Babylon, Melbourne.
» * *
We hear that Mr. Samuel Lazar succeeds Mr.
Garner as manager early in June. Daring the past 18
months Sam has been enjoying his £3O a week bonus,
having nothing to do for it bnt look lovely—which, by
the way, he can generally manage. However, he will be
welcome back. Perhaps, when he returns, he will allow
reporters on sectarian papers to come to the theatre
three nights a week instead of two. Qui sait!
* * * *
Our coloured brethren at the Opera House have
been doing a good business. We are glad to see that,
acting upon our suggestion, the management have in-
vested in new pants for the corner men. Having thus
far plunged into expense, they might with advantage get
a new pair of highlows for the triangle and a lower cut
vest for the big drum. This transformation effected,
the troupe will be perfect. Their new programme is a
capital one, Mr. C. Lewis making an intelligent inter-
locutor.
» * *
We understand that, as Mr. Williamson’s per-
mission is necessary in order to perform any part of the
music of the “ Pirates of Penzance,” the burlesque the
Minstrels contemplated producing has been temporarily
shelved. The manager, Mr. Wolfe, is, however, about to
seek Mr. Williamson’s permission to use the music of
one or two songs, and doubtless it will be accorded. The
troupe have, we believe, no present thoughts of
migrating.
* * * *
During the week Professor Anderson has been
conjuring like a second Eobert Houdin, and giving away
fiery untamed steeds without number. Some people
go to the School of Arts poor and weary, and skip (or
ride) home with a light step and a lighter heart, bearing
with them all kinds of treasure. The last time we
went there we won a pair of solitaires of such gorgeous
design that we should blush to wear them. A friend
who went with ns got a concertina, and two days after
the show his wife left him. A person in the printing
line in Woolloomooloo won the horse recently, and he
is now slowly and deliberately ruining himself by
erecting a brick stable. Altogether, the Professor is a
success—and the more mazeppas he gives away.the more
the people’ love him. Miss Louisa ably assists her
gallant husband, and the lovely smile with which she
hands over the cuckoo-clocks and koh-i-noors must be
seen to be appreciated. Hi, presto I Open sesame!
The orange will be found, in the gentleman’s beaver.
Hurroo!
* * * *
On Friday night a concert was given at the
Masonic Hall, by Miss Deakin and others, the proceeds
of which were to be devoted to the assistance of a
“ Russian gentleman," who had apparently dropped in
for a bit of bad luck. We are afraid that the concert
did not benefit him much; in other words, the
benefleiare was dead. The affair was badly worked up,
and indifferently advertised. The vocalists were
Mr. E. Jeffreson, Mr. C. Phillips, Mr. C. B. Foster,
Miss Josephine Deakin, and Miss Reid. The concert
was an artistic success, although an undoubted pecu-
niary failure. Miss Deakin was, of course, the bright
particular star. This young lady, by the way, goes to
Melbourne to play Mabel on alternate nights with Miss
Elsa May. All Miss Josey wants is a little more aplomb
—which is a polite term for “ cheek.” If she hadn’t
been bom a lady, perhaps she might not have been
deficient in this regard.
* * * *
Beaumont Read has been “Touching it Gently,”
at the Exhibition, and Cora and her dog have all been
there. John says : “ If I touch a show it must be a big
one." Well, his is big enough, in all conscience.
* * * *
The “ much-travelled ” has gone to Melbourne to
arrange for Archibald Forbes. Archibald’s best lecture is
“ The Inner Life of a War Correspondent." The “ vari-
ously-voyaged ” —like Gaffer Hexam —is “ in luck agin."
* * * *
Walter Reynolds, after playing a fortnight at
the Wellington (N.Z.) Theatre Royal to poor business,
during which time “ Tried and True,” “ Lost and Won,"
“ a Christmas Mystery," “ East Lynne,” and other
dramas were produced, found it necessary to close the
theatre. He lost considerably, the more so because, to
avoid opposition, he had also rented the Academy of
Music. Even “East Lynne” wouldn’t draw. Ada
Ward must really be wanted in Wellington to play “ The
Woman in Red."
* * * *
We are informed that “James Perkins, who
walked across Middle Harbour on the tight rope, per-
formed in the Denman School of Arts on Easter Mon-
day night to a crowded audience. A slack wire was
fixed up across the stage on which Perkins did many
extraordinary feats. He has with him two experienced
dogs that can play euchre, tell the time and do manr
wonderful tricks. Miss Fanny Bishop is with him—she
manages the musical department.” We chronicle these
interesting facts with pleasure, notwithstanding that
we have not, to the best of our rememberance, ever
heard of Mr. Perkins, hia wonderful dogs, or “ Miss
Fanny Bishop, who manages the musical department."
We long, however, to make the acquaintance of the
whole troupe, so when James comes to town, perhaps
he will just moon round and let’s have a look at him.
He can bring the dogs along too, if he likes, and a
euchre “ deck.’’ Miss Fanny will likewise be received
with empressement.
** * *
Walter Airey is going to relate his “ Travels
through Ireland ’’ at the Temperance Hall on Friday,
May 13th. We shall make a point of attending to hear
Airey air ’is eloquence. The last time we saw Walter in
public, he was trying to sing a comic song in the ring at
Wilson’s Circus to a brass-band accompaniment, with a
big-drum obligato. It was a funny song in its natural
state, but it was a perfect side-splitter under these con-
ditions. Why can’t Walter sing his travels ? It would,
as the Lyre says, “ take well.’’ However, Walter’s a
good fellow, and we wish him all the success he de-
serves.
** * *
The Dubbo Dispatch gives South’s Pinafore
Company any amount of marmalade—every bit of
which we have no doubt is as well deserved as it is
well laid on. Miss Edith Pender has been ill, but
pretty Miss Teresa Horan played Buttercup in her
stead charmingly, and Miss Eugenie appeared for
the nonce as Josephine. In some parts the Dis-
patch’s notice is peculiar. It says: “Mr. T. Rain-
ford * gore ’ Dick’s songs in splendid style, and the
scenery is by that prince of artists and good fellows,
Mr. A. Flint.’’ We are glad to see James getting good
notices—no matter if a herd of bulls are grazing through
each critique.
** * *
The Cooma amateurs break out on the 14th of
May next in “ Still Waters Run Deep,” and the “Area
Belle.” We hear that these good people have been
diligently rehearsing for the last two months, and that,
at last, they have reached perfection. Of course every-
one wants to play Mildmay, and it is equally certain
that the lady amateurs are doubtful about the exact ex-
tent of ankle to be exhibited. If we had time, we would
take a run up and trot the boys out. Doubtless, how-
ever, our dear friend John Gale will send us down a
few slips anent the trouble—that is, if he is not dead.
* * *
While on the subject of amateurs, we wonder
when the Romanys are going to perform again. What
will be the date, and which will be the scene of their
next triumph ? We are sure that we can rely on the
courtesy of Dr. Bedford to give us early intimation of
any movement on the part of those ladies and gentle,
men, with whom the histrionic measles has “taken”
in so marked a manner.
** * *
Mr. J. W. Dodge writes us, from the Globe
Hotel, Melbourne, informing us that we made an error
in The Bulletin of the 23rd inst. in saying that “ Miss
Flora Anstead has taken Mrs. Bryer’s place at the
Theatre Royal, Melbourne.” Mr. Dodge, who, we may
whisper, is Mr. Flora Anstead, says " she has not,
although she played the Nurse in ‘ Romeo and Juliet.’ ’’
This seems to us slightly disconnected, as if Miss
Anstead played the Nurse (Mrs. Bryer’s part from time
immemorial) she must have been taking the latter’s
place—at least, temporarily.
* * *
J. W. likewise forwards us another communica-
tion which we defer noticing for the present. That sort
of thing ought to come from us, J. W. However, keep
yer ’air on. We’ll keep you “in our memories, green.”
** * *
We are in receipt of a very nice letter from Mr.
James White, in which that gentleman mildly but
emphatically takes exception to the following paragraph
which appeared in the “ Poor Player ’’ column of our
last issue:—“Myra Kemble gets ‘fits’ in Melbourne
for her Celia. The Weekly Times says her costume
betrayed the fact that the lady ‘was a mere peg for
milliners to hang their wares on.’ This is rather too
hot, and doubtless unjust, and we should go in for
giving the Times a dressing for dressing down the
dressing up ®f Myra—only we are are a little tropical
ourselves, sometimes.” Mr. White (who, we may
inform the uninitiated, has the good fortune to be the
husband of the clever young lady in question) says:—
“ I must confess I do not like your paragraph re Miss
Kemble at all, as it is not a fact. Had you said that
she got ‘ fits ’ from the Daily Telegraph (whose critic
has always shown wilful malice towards her since she
appeared in Melbourne) it would have been correct.
I enclose the Leader and Australasian criticisms,
which are highly favorable. Kindly correct this in
your next, and do me a favor.”
* * *
Mr. White did not enclose the criticisms he
spoke'of, but we took the trouble to look them up, and
we must confess that both are remarkably favourable
notices. As will be seen by our par., we did say that
Mrs. White had got fits from the Telegraph, for the
Weekly Times is little else (and the fact is well-known)
than a reprint of that journal. As to the accusation of
“wilful malice" of the writer, we should be sorry to
think that any male scribe would be guilty of that,
more especially when a lady, and a fair lady, is the
question. It is a fact, however, that while the Weekly
Times critic views Miss Kemble’s performance in an
unfavourable light, both the Australasian and the
Leader treat her impersonation of Celia with marked
favour. To say this much we are happy, and we will
even add to it that, so far as our experience of Miss
Kemble goes, we should think she would make a very
good Celia indeed. With regard to the dia-
monds, etc., qf which the Weekly Times complains, it
would seem unfair to take exception to in the person of
Celia, what it tolerates in the case of Rosalind. But
« Who shall say what should be right
When critics disagree ?”
** * *
Signor Lardelli, the clever pianist, who has
lately been performing under engagement to Mr. John
Bennett, at the Old Exhibition building, and to whom
we alluded in a playful par. last week, writes to say
that hisljname is Lardelli, and Gugliemo Lardelli at
that. This fact, he goes on to say, can be vouched for
by Dr. Ellis, Precentor of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, and
others. It would appear by this that the Signor thinks
there is more in a name than Shakespeare did. Well,
so let it be. We are too glad to accede to Signor
Lardelli’s request to state that Lardelli and none other
is his name, and also that he writes music under the
pseudonyms of “ Henri Latpur and Percival Watson.
This explanation given, we fake our leave of the Signor,
trusting that he will accept the assurance that we
respect him equally as Lardelli, Latour, and Percival
Watson. So —vogue la gdlere!
** * *
We hear that Mr. J. F. Forde seceded from the
Stray Leaves company on the 30th of April last, on
which occasion the “ Leaves ” clubbed together ana
presented him with a handsome souvenir. We haven t
heard, yet, what form the gift took, but we have no
doubt that it was something nice in the cham-aaa-
locket line. Ella Carrington would be above the pickm
fork caper, and Charley Taylor would spurn a platea
biscuit-box from his thoughts. Mr. Forde is a gooa
singer and a clever actor, and we wish him success in
his profession —and no half-salaries.
* * *
The “ Stray Leaves,” as reconstructed, consist
of Miss Ella Carrington (Mrs. Fuller), Mrs. C. H-
Taylor, Mr. C. H. Taylor (manager), Mr. C. Fuller, Mr-
F. G. Ball, and Mr. W. Bertie. The company traveuea
8000 miles last year, and did big “ biz.” Only two re-
main of the original “ Stray Leaves —Miss ' Cam 8
and Mr. C. H. Taylor, Miss Nellie Mansell, a former
member, is married —a fact which should surprise
one. When the young lady was in Sydney, she haa as
many rings thrown at her as a quoit-peg but s
ways shook her head. This time we suppose tnat ms.
Bight has turned up. Hurrah I
** * *
We don’t know what Mr. Arthur Garner has
been doing to the Adelaide BuLLETiN.but that
ful publication contains in its last issue a ’
most atrocious libel upon him. The slander i q tbe
consists of a portrait labelled with the name * #
manager of the London Comedy Company, an ,
no hesitation in saying that no pnniehmen or
■too severe either for the sign-painter who , g >
the practical joker who published it. The pi . - n <r
execrable litho., which has all the appearan struck
been drawn on a kerb-stone with a fire-stick.


-of by a Hindoo with a garden-mower. It is about as
-much like Mr. Gamer ns M’Beath is like a cherub, and
-the perspective is of that kind which a three-foot
urchin employs when sketching his granny in chalks
upon the garden-wall. This picture will never die.
Even when Ikey Josephson is no more (and when will
■that be ?) this work of art will live and flourish. We
wonder what the proprietors of our contemporary will
-take for the qtone. We should like to purchase it on
purpose to fling it at the head of the artist.
** * *
Two facts of interest. 1. Messrs. Gilbert and
■ Sullivan agreed to write “ Pinafore ” for D’Oyly Carte,
for a nightly royalty of 10 guineas, with a guaranteed
run of one hundred nights. 2. The London publishers’
account of the “ Pirates of Penzance,” published on
November 11th, 1879, was, on December 21st, 32,000.
.Just fancy—32,ooo in seven weeks! Eureka 1
* * *
And, talking of Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan, we
learn that they have recently won an important action
in London, against the Comedy Opera Company, owners
of the Opera Comique Theatre. It would seem that the
. defendants had secured the piece for the run, and when
-the Opera Comique Theatre was closed for decoration
thev continued the opera at another house. The plaintiffs
..contended the closing of the theatre ended the run, and
■a large number of dramatic writers and theatrical
managers supported their position. The judge took the
same view, and therefore gave judgement for the plain-
tiffs. who did not ask for damages. We do not pretend
-to the legal acumen of Mr. Justice Fry, who tried the
case, but if we can understand the grounds upon which
he found for the plaintiffs, may we be—Fry’d.
* * *
The great operatic twain’s new opera is foun-
ded on the Bab Ballad of The Curates, and the rev. gen-
tleman hailing from Asees-Milk-Cum-Worter is to be
’hero. The story is very whimsical. A curate of one
village is very popular, and great on the croquet-lawn
and at tea-parties. But another curate comes to,an ad-
joining township, and by means of pasting ferns in
albums, and collecting shells, completely knocks the
croquet curate out of time with the ladies. There-
upon the meek-and-mild curate pens a blood-thirsty
communication to the fern-pasting clergyman, in which
he tells him that unless he flies, he, the pulpit orator
.of Asses-Milk-Cum-Worter will skin hiffi. So the
-threatened man clears, and leaves the other in calm
-possession of the scene, and to enjoy the reputation of
being the mildest reverend ever known. The piece
opens, we believe, with a chorus of curates, and there
is also a dancing dean, and a muscular bishop. We
have musculor—and even adispose—bishops in Sydney,
’hut no dancing deans.
** * *
Fred. Marshall is a great success as “ Jeames ”
at the Melbourne Bijou ; of Edmund we hear nothing.
• The Melbourne Herald says of the "star ’’:—“ His act-
ing is somewhat of the type of the late lamented Toole,
and like that great artist, he shows that true pathos
r and genuine feeling with the pourtrayal of the highest
feelings of human nature are not inconsistent with
genuine humour. Mr. Marshall is also singularly free
from vulgarity, or aught that could offend, and the
’lovers of facial (sic) humour may look forward to a
• rare treat during his engagement.” It’s rather a shame
to kill poor Toole in this manner, for he is, at present,
playing Bamaby Doublechick at the Folly Theatre,
London, for the 450th time. However, we suppose our
contemporary is confusing the live Mr. Toole with the
dead Paul Bedford, the two having for many years ap-
peared together in their’ridiculous entertainment, the
Paul-y-Toole-y-technic.” We wish the Herald luck
afid a better reader.
** * *
No company has visited the Theatre Royal,
Hobart, for about two months, and at present no
manager seems inclined to take pity on the Gum-suckers.
But there’s nothing very wonderful in this. However
. good may be the professional bill of fare, the strolling
•player at Hobart rarely succeeds in drawing a house
worth more than a quarter of what a squad of raving
amateurs can pull together at a week’s notice. Our
Eomanys ought to go to Hobart. Their press notices
■would make their fortunes.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
“ S.” a correspondent of the C. of E, Record,
-enquires : —“ Is there any place in Sydney where jewel-
lery, books, and articles of the kind could be disposed
of, the 'proceeds to be devoted to missionary pur-
poses?’* We can answer this question. There are
many such places, and they are frequently patronised
by journalists. They usually have three golden balls
hanging over their doors. We notice that the editor
•of the Eecord answers “ We do not know any.” Lucky
dog!
* * ♦
We absolutely decline to believe it. It couldn’t
have been the stately vice-regal shandrydan that
knocked over the humble buggy and sent the two
-female occupants on their noses. His Excellency isn’t
economical, and. when he drives, always has the way
cleared by outriders.
* * *
It has come out, at last, that Milton died a
-Catholic. McGnven now says that he never thought
much of “Paradise Lost,” and believes that if the late
John wrote any of it (whichhe greatly doubts) begot
all his material from Praise God Barebones.
* * *
This is a fact. On Friday last a certain very
well known J.P., who is always on the Licensing Bench,
and always votes —against the publicans, or for them,
we forget which—was walking down George-street in
the direction of the Water Police Court, wondering in
his mind when another Police Magistrate would be
shot, when a voice in his ear said, “ Will you accept
this, sir ?” “ I will,” eagerly gasped the worthy justice,
and he grabbed what the stranger proffered. But it
-was only a printed document relating to ten-and-sixpenny
trousers. Another disappointment!
* * *
A new high-class journal entitled Land is about
"to he published in London by Messrs. Cassell, Petter,
and Galpin. A paper here of that name, under the
editorship of Mr. Tom Garrett, M.P., would be a great
draw. And that reminds us that in *N. S. Wales it is
always the people who have the least land that know
the most about it.
* ♦ ♦
Of course it was merely a coincidence; but still
it was rather strange that just as the D.T. reporter
appeared on the platform at Thursday night’s anti-
Mongolian meeting, there was a small row at the back
of the hall, and a cry of “ Put that blank Chinaman
out!"
* ■* *
The Eight Worshipful the Mayor of Sydney,
speaking at the anti-Mongolian meeting, said that we
were Anglo-Saxons now, but if the Chinese were allowed
to come here in swarms we “ might go back to monkeys
again.” Speak for yourself, Mr. Harris.
“ If we, as Mr. Darwin says.
Prom monkeys are descended.
Old Time, by changing things, hath not
As yet the matter mended.
The olden way’s the happiest way.
The new condition fails.
So Darwin, if you can, my boy.
Just give us back our tails."
* * *
Mr. Thomas Fox failed in business, as many a
good man has done, and was released from all legal
liability to his creditors. But he got once more into
the current of prosperity, called together those to whom
he was indebted, paid them in full, and, better than all,
entertained them at a champagne lunch. Would to
goodness there were more like him ! He must he an
honest man, and we’re sure that the fact of his name
being Fox has no bearing whatever on the circumstance
that the reporters had invites to the pleasant little
spread. Mr. Fox’s creditors numbered five. And this
reminds ns that in New Zealand, some years ago, a
festive gathering took place under almost exactly
similar circumstances. In the latter case, however,
there were six creditors. An old commercial man who
knew his way round town attended, and was asked to
propose the health of the long-suffering half-dozen.
He had never previously had experience of so generous
an action as that of the debtor, and his heart was full.
So he wound himself up for a long speech. But just as
he started, he remembered that five out of the six
creditors had themselves been insolvent two or three
times over, and had paid nobody. The orator’s tongue
at once clove to the roof of his mouth
♦ * *
If we don’t take care, the clergy will be includ-
ing amateur boat-racing in the same category <is
professional sculling and taking or laying the edds. It
is a fact that a member of Tattersall’s won from a
city insurance agent the sum of £BOO in one bet over the
last Intercolonial. It is also a fact that a well-known
King-street boniface held the deposits, and that £1260
added to the sum named would hardly cover the total
losings of the unlucky hacker of the Sydneyites.
♦ * *
Alderman Ben James is understood to have said
that John Davies, Esq., C.M.G., is “nothing better
than Sir Henry Parkes’s * Friday.’ ” Now this is un-
kind, and, what concerns us still more, it’s untrue. Sir
Henry may be likened unto Eobinson Crpsoe, in that he
just now is “ monarch of all he surveys"—and that he’s
likely to be so as long as Good Friday remains obedient
and refrains from making footprints on the sands of
time—in other words, so long as he stays in this world;
and though John (hitherto better known politically as
“ Oily Gammon ’’) may possibly henceforth answer
when he’s called “Friday,” we really can’t see why he
should do so. Can anyone explain ?
* * *
He and a certain bank manager have of late
been on the most intimate terms. The bank manager
wants a seat in the Legislative Council, and, by the
way, knows that there is more than a precedent for
such an appointment. A good many people are aware
that, not so many years ago, a “ mere accountant ’’ got
a seat in the Lords’. Now, who is he, and who is the
aspiring manager ?
• * *
In Victoria, no one who is not a barrister
can be appointed to a police magistracy. In this colony
we have many incompetent P.M.’s, while barristers are
by no means scarce. Would not the Victorian rule
work well here? Would it not be better. Sir Henry,
that qualified gentlemen, and not incompetent—possibly
corrupt—electioneering touts should be appointed to
dispense the law ? And after you’ve regulated matters
in regard to P.M.’s, you should see that all M.P.’s and
J.P.’s should at least be able to stay for a week in the
alphabet class of a State-school without being at the
bottom the whole time.
* * *
The teetotallers, we notice, have been making
capital out of the fact that more than one drunken man
has lately been killed by the tram. This recalls the
circumstance that Mr. Eoseby, the great cold-water
M.P., had a narrow escape from injury the other even-
ing, on the Oxford-street line, owing to the carriages
moving off just as he was alighting. It’s indeed lucky
that he was a cold-water man, for what the country
would have done without him we don’t know. The
tram is a much-abused institution. A Lyons-terrace
medico writes to Granny condemning it (not the S.
M. H., but the tram), on the ground that it occasion-
ally kills people. However, doctors sometimes kill
people, and though the tram does now and then
knock a man down it never makes him “ pay through
the nose ” before he dies. Neither, we may add, does
the medical professor.
* * *
A certain local professor of dancing advertises
himself as under the patronage of the " nobility, clergy,
and gentry.” Now, we know who the clergy are, but
we’re not so sure about the two other classes. The
professor reminds us of Mr. Cover, the butcher, of East
Sydney electioneering fame, who used to announce the
“nobility and gentry” as his patrons. He, however,
never mentioned the clergy—perhaps because they
weren’t good marks.
* * #
A certain illustrious politician recently had the
exterior of his private house repaired and varnished.
Whilst the work was proceeding corporation “ muck-
carts” were strictly prohibited from approaching the
sacred precincts of A the legislator’s humpy, lest a stray
particle of dust might stick to the newly-embellished
walls. Blank-street, Surry-hills, is now open again for
ordinary traffic by permission of the great man. To
quote Mr. Smouch, “Ter see wot it is ter he a halder-
man.”
* # ♦
St. John’s Temperance Society, Darlinghurst,
has 18s. lid. at its credit. This convenient sum will
buy exactly 75 nohblers and one copy of the Herald.
* *■ *
The other day, at Hobart, a number of ladies
and gentlemen, desirous of recognising the energy of
one of the promoters of a successful “ cricket" bazaar
—(by the way, was there ever an unsuccessful bazaar ?)
—procured a very handsome lecket and chain, and
called a meeting in the orthodox style. A prominent
cricketer made a long and eulogistic speech concerning
the energetic one, to whom, at the finish, he courteously
handed the “ testimonial." The intended recipient took
the bauble, but at once handed it back, with the very
polite remark, “ Some people believe in testimonials—l
don’t.” And now there are in Hobart some mean people
who vow that in future they’ll never offer a man who is
to be testimonialised less than a stiff percentage of the
gate money.
* * *
Yes, “Decency”—you wbo write in tbe Holt
Hekka, denouncing those comfortable garments,
pyjamas, as immoral, on the grounds that they expose a
man’s ankles—you are evidently either a very pious
young man, a very old lady, or a converted nymph, de
pavS beyond middle age. Did you ever see ladies trying
to get into the tram ? Don’t you think you could write
another nice letter in favor of the lowering of the car-
steps? And aren’t you of opinion that restaurant
stairs might, in the interests of ladies, be made a little
less steep—especially when they’re in full view of a
crowd of gaping diners T
* * *
It has now been proved that a “ good” carpen-
ter can be a thundering bad plasterer.
* * *
There is a row in the brick-trade brewing. The
“ middle-men” have secured all the bricks that are
i being and have for some time been made, and are
putting the screw on the builders. The issue will be
watched with interest, as the builders are lying back
for a spring. Directly the skin and hair begins to fly,
we will keep our readers posted as to the killed and
wounded. No ring, but fair play in bricks is our
“morter.”
* * •
“At Wingham, a man named Wherry was fined
in the sum of £lOO for the illicit distillation of rum.”
This appeared in the Cootamcndra Something without
a side-heading. It ought to have been labelled— 1 “A
Wherry rum incident.”
* * *
. “ Mrs. Smith, poundkeeper at North Yass, has
resigned.” And yet we always understood that pound-
keeping in that district was such a good thing!
# * *
“ A man in New Zealand purchased a run carry-
ing 20,000 sheep, giving a small sum deposit in cash, and
paper for the balance. He took possession, shore the
sheep, sold the wool and the sheep for cash, and
levanted with the money.” What a splendid politician
that man would have made !
* * *
Now that the masterhand of M'Guven is with-
drawn from the handle of the Howl, the other rev.
doctor has been doing his best to set the barrel to a
new tune, and, at length, has found one in “ The Pope’s
Pants and Stockings." The rev. gentleman, however,
has not had the pluck, in this instance, to tackle the
nether garments of the living Leo, but he has fixed
upon the dead • Pins, and unblushingly slandered his
socks and libelled his breeches. The thing is, where is
all this to stop!? If they won’t let the dead alone,
what, after a little while, is to become of the living ?
The rev. editor, in attacking the deceased Pope’s
“ pants and stockings," had evidently advanced the first
stride in his policy of libelling the habiliments of the
world generally. If so, let the worthy doctor look
nearer home. Why not attack Mr. Enbie’s hat, or
Dean Leonard’s Oxford shoes ? or, to fly at higher
game, the singlets of his Grace the Archbishop and the
pyjamas of Monsignor Lynch ? This style of criticism
suits the Howl in an eminent degree. The writers
should be good critics of old clothes, since their
language savours so much of Petticoat Lane. The paper
should, however, change its motto from “This is the
Secret of England’s Greatness, England’s Glory ’’ to
the more appropriate legend of “ Old Clo’.”
* * *
The Sydney correspondent of the Cootamundra
Herald languishingly remarks: “ The naval sham fight
yesterday was certainly appreciated by the general
public. For my own part, I cannot say that these
sham fights interest me much.” The point is, old
fellow, what does interest you ? We know certain press-
men in this city who would be bored by Irving in
Hamlet, but yet who would go into ecstasies over a six-
penny plate of liver and bacon. Sham fights don’t
interest you: yet the cost of oue of those entertain-
ments fs some hundreds of pounds. Well, well. Don’t
b 4 hard on the authorities this time, dear sir; but next
year, if they contemplate anything of the sort for your
amusement, just give the Commodore and the Colonel-
Commandant a call, and tell them you’d sooner have a
bag of flour and a boh’s-worth of ’bus tickets.
The Gundagai Times has the following par.
“ There was once a paper published at Hill End, called
the Hint End Times. Its proper publishing day was
Saturday, but it appeared occasionally on Wednesday
week, and not unfrequently on Friday fortnight. A
man, therefore, called at the office one day, and said he
had a new name for the paper—the Hi ll End Some-
times. The editor thanked him cordially, and then
dropped him promiscuously down a dis-used shaft.
Then he howled over the top of the pit, “ Good-hye—
the parting shaft is mine !" All the parties are since
dead—including the paper.” Now the editor, possibly
through press of business, has forgotten to complete
this item. And yet only one word would do it. And
that word should be— Bulletin. We only call the
editor’s attention to this fact to remind him that
printing our jokes unacknowledged is rough on us, and
wry rough on his own “ locals." As Mr. Weller’s uncle
said of the grog that was not half-and-half —“ It ain’t
ekal.”
“ His Honor Judge Josephson has been ap-
pointed Deputy Chief Commissioner in Insolvency, vice
Mr. G. H. Defell, who goes home on twelve months’
leave of absence. Mr. Defell has the reputation of being
a wise and good lawyer, and the latest mot in Sydney
legal circles is that, though Judge Josephson has been
appointed to, he cannot fill, Mr. Defell’s seat.”
The Morning Rum, what a mine of wealth to
us that paper is!) in its issue of Saturday (and what a
well humped-out issue that was !), has a paragraph
puffing the writings of the well-meaning young gentle-
man who is, at present, doing those Chinese sketches, a
perusal of which the Sydney public so religiously avoid.
It announces that—we quote verbatim —“ the next arti-
cle on the Mongolian invasion by our special reporter will
appear on Monday.” This is rather hard on the genial
little man, who is not a bit like a Chinaman, to ac-
cuse him of alone being a Mongolian invasion—but no
matter. He is to write about “ Death on the Pale
Horse,” (which we sincerely trust is no allusion to Mr.
Eoseby); the “ Fever Haunts of Sydney,” and the
“ Home of Malaria," andiupon the “ Anticipated Bush
of Starving Pagans." And, touching the latter sensa-
tional heading, some mean people allege that the ad-
vance guard of the “ starving pagans " has already ar-
rived and is located in York-street.
* * *
“ The electric light has the effect of showing at
once the existence of cosmetics on the human face.—
Scientific Paper,
The Federal Australian has this week got
hold of a professional funny man, who writes under the
worn de plume of “ Amiens.” Truth to tell, the editor
has acted wisely in this, for his paper was dreadfully
ponderous. Besides, the Melbourne reading public are
a little weary of “-3Sgles” (otherwise Eobert Wallen,
of Clarke and Sons, Gold Brokers), while, since the
festive Marcus Igave up “Atticus” into the hands of
Alf. Deakin, M.P., it is as flat as ditch-water.
“ Amiens ” writes under the heading “ How the world
Wags,” and his first effusion is decidedly racy, without
being vulgar or ill-natured. It seems he objects to the
undraped style affected by shapely women who per-
sonate Sbakspearian heroines and have to don male
attire, as the gentle William so frequently compels
them to do. Here are a few words which strike us as
fresh and pointed: “It is the same in Cymbeline.
Think you the poor, sore, distracted Imogen, following
the advice of Pisanio, to don male attire, that she may
make a rough journey (incog.) to Milford Haven, would
come out almost as nude as a fairy prince in a vulgar
burlesque ? Surely not. Or if she did appear in flesh,
coloured tights and dancing pumps on that stormy
Welsh coast, would not old Belarius and the two
banished princes—gentlemen all three to their finger-
tips—seeing the supposed boy shivering with the cold,
forthwith proceed to wrap him snugly up in their own
warm garments ? Call this not prudery, nor do I wish
to shock anyone, but I must speak out plainly. lam
not one of those who desire to put trousers on the
statue of the Apollo Belvidere, hut I do say that if an
actress displays her form when she should be properly
draped, and her most conspicuous intention is to
exhibit her lower limbs rather than interpret the poetic
creations of the author, then she commits an offence
not only against decency, but against art.” The two
questions are, Mortimer—isn’t it pleasant to observe a
shapely woman ? and will your new man—who is really
good—last?
* * *
“ The hostility of a certain section of the Boers
in the Transvaal towards the natives who remained
faithful to the British throughout the recent troubles
is becoming more sharply defined. Increasing anxiety
is being felt at the strained relations now existing
between the two.”
No wonder that the Boers can blow;
No wonder, when they’ve licked us so !
No wonder that the Dutchmen do
Unblushingly “ put on the screw.”
Defeat the British flag has stained,—
“ Eolations” now are once more strained.
Once more the Boers our flag defy.
And risk the hazard of the die.
“ We’ve licked them once!” they cry amain,
“ And we can lick them once again.”
* * *
Here is a sample of the poetry that appears in
that little curl paper, the St. Leonards Eecorder :
“The Mistress Dove.
“Tho’ 1 (sic) wash, Saturday,
And on Sunday I smooth,
Still my falcon so gay
A nice clean shirt shall soothe.”
Let us write a tag:—
Is this the stuff
That’s writ to order ?
It’s awful rough.
You dull Eecorder !
Tou ask for verse.
P’rhaps you suppose
It can’t be worse
Than your dull prose ?
In this we are of opinion quite—
Tou, dull Eecorder, you are right.
* * *
Lord Lytton has not been a success as Viceroy
of India. This, however, could have been forgiven him :
for poets seldom possess much administrative ability.
What has recently staggered the literary world is that
“Owen Meredith,”though an indifferent bard, is found
to be a first-class plagiarist. But this is not all. Even
as a debater in the sleepy House of Lords, he is a signal
failure. Now, good poetry, like well-advertised charity,
covers a multitude of sins; therefore, had not rumour
so played up with the “ songs" of the noble lord, people
would have felt disposed to forgive him his bungling in
India, and his dullness in the House of Peers. Under
the circumstances, however, both Press and public at
home appear to be “ full” of Lord Lytton. In sketching
the Upper House in verse, Ashby Sterry thus writes
anent our hero in Truth :
“ The hum has ceased, there’s a lull complete.
For * Owen Meredith’s ’ on his feet;
That poet-Viceroy, whose statute-book
Was a kind of vulgarised ‘ Lalla Eookh ’;
Whose years of ruling in India seem
Like the tale of an opium-eater’s dream;
And who left that Empire but just in time.
To resume his writing of morbid rhyme.
For had fortune granted him any reprieve,
There’d have been no Empire for him to leave !”
This is touching, Owen—“ on the raw," eh ? Eawther !
* * *
“ Sir Henry Parkes baa given his solemn pledge,”
says the G.W.C.T. of one of the Good Templar sections,
“ that the Licensing Bill will be the first measure
introduced next session.”
Sirenree has given a solemn pledge
The Licensing Bill good law he’ll make it;
So now the knight has given this pledge.
The Templars, sure will make him take it.
* * *
The Morning Rum has a new name for wife —
connubial consort.
“ Connubial consort ’’—excuse, this time.
The following faulty little rhyme—
Is one
Of the phrases in the Morning Bum !
How hard they try—this poor cabal—
To bo, at times, original!
How hard they try—how loud they wail!
For the more they try, the more they fail.
* * *
Says the Holt Howl : “We shall be ready to
supply the Standard, on fine durable paper, quite
beyond the best quality used in newspapers, to any
subscribers who demand it, at Bd. per quarter extra.
The outside advertisement sheets might remain as they
are.” A-hem! The thin edge of the wedge! And talking
of the outside advertisement sheets remaining as they
are, they may well do so—since they have remained so
long in their present condition.
* * *
Verily are the newspaper readers of Sydney a
privileged class. Not only does our venerable contem-
porary of Hunter-street favour us with daily disserta-
tions whose stately philosophical tone is grateful to the
mental feelings, but it supports a large staff of genius-
stricken and omniscient prophets who, under the guise
of “ our own correspondents,” graciously open to us
the book of fata, and reveal the words of the oracle
with regard to both the immediate and the distant
future. Thus we are in the happy position of knowing
the precise course that events intend taking throughout
Europe, America, and Australia. If, on taming to
another column of the same issue, we find that the
telegram belies the oracle, we can only sympathise with
the latter, and exclaim with the poet:
“ ’Tis not in mortals to command success;
But we’ll do more, Sempronius, we’ll deserve it.”
For truly if ever persistency in prophesying what never
happens deserved success, it is earned by the Herald’s
“ owns."
* * *
A person signing himself “Decency” writes to
the Echo last Thursday, complaining that a gentleman
walks, at 8 o’clock in the morning, to and from the
Wooloomooloo baths, clad in a suit of “pyjamas.” This
scribbling meanderer says:—“ His attire is a loose coat,
a pair of pyjamas, a towel around his neck; and, as he
wears no stockings, his naked feet and ankles are freely
exposed to view.” Now, we wonder if the writer’s
every-day costume is more decent than this dress,
which is common, even so near as Brisbane—which is
worn until late in the day in Burmah, Slam, and other
tropical countries, and which is to be seen all over
India adopted by Europeans until nearly mid-day.
Now what was “ Decency " shocked at ? Presumably
at a pair of gentleman’s ankles. We wonder whether a
pair of lady’s ankles would have shocked him in an
equal degree? The'prevailing mode in ladies’ attire,
in which the contour of the figure stands out in bold
relief, is surely more “ suggestive ” than a loose suit of
pyjamas, surmounted by a coat, and the neck hidden by
a towel. “ Decency ” is evidently a peculiar character
—possibly a hermit. If, however, he is not a hermit,
we recommend him to become one at his earliest con-
venience ; and to pass the remainder of his existence
lying on a bed of ashes in a mud-cabin, and eating raw
turnips with a scythe-blade.
* * *
The other day, Dr. Wazir Beg, as is his custom,
wrote to the Herald a letter which was duly printed
with his signature attached. Next day Granny actually
published au epistle in reply signed “ Wizer Beggar.”
Now, wasn’t this rather profane ? Some years ago
a local pill-puncher, seeing that one of his brethren had
advertised a reduction in the price of patent medicines,
sent to Hunter-street a facetiously worded and harmless
ad., but the Thunderer declined it The insertion of
the foregoing pun astonishes us. We always thought
the Echo had a prescriptive right to all the fun.
V.
BETSY PRIG CORROBORATED.
At the Eeception t’other day.
All d la mode de Paris,
Some friends of Prig were heard to say,
“ There is a Mrs. Harris.”
THE PARSON'S HORSE.
[The attention of the Inspector of the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals is directed to this
little lyric];—
This is a story which folks have
Of late essayed to fasten
Upon a very holy man—
A prim suburban parson.
This parson did possess a steed—
The poorest of poor cattle —
A horse, that as it crawled along.
It’s very bones did rattle.
That parson had an appetite
Each day for his hot dinner.
And day by day he plumper grew—
While Bwciphale grew thinner.
He never fed his wretched horse.
But, let it with a had hock,
'For four months starve on stunted grass,
In his half-acre paddock.
And all this time that parson preached
On Sundays of the rarity.
In this degraded world of sin.
Of pure and Christian charity!
He told them that the dictum—“ give,”
Was one ha did endorse, sirs;
But all this time he never gave
One thought to his poor horse, sirs.
The other day, the starving beast
With gnawing hunger dying.
Fell down from pure exhaustion, and
Is even now there lying.
Such is the charity divine
Of one great Gospel teacher 1
Such is the sympathy sublime
Of one good pulpit preacher !
Such is—no more!—we'd like to see
This holy parson’s mug, sirs.
Closes haven, and close-cropped, inside
Her Majesty’s grim jug, sirs!
* * *
The parties with the wigs and gowns
Have knit their legal brows.
And on their foreheads ait deep frowns.
And there’ll, ere long, be rows ;• —
For to th’ appointment of Judge J.,
The bar do not cry out hooray.
In fact, they seem to think that “ Josh ’’
Is not the man for Judge,
In Defell’s place; and some cry “ Bosh !”
While others murmur “ Fudge."
And yet why growl ? for who knows—crikey!—
More ’bout insolvency than the Judge ?
. 1 * * *
It is a tell-tale glow which speaks
Of ev’ry facial deception ;
To rouge and pearl-cream on the cheeks.
It loudly takes a great exception.
It shows up every tiny flake
Of “ Ninon’s Bloom ” or “ poudre de riz ”
No matter what pains ladies take.
To lay it on so carefullee.
What will our Dowagers do now.
Who used to “ fit it on " so thickly ?
How will the nymphs de pav6 — how
Will thev e’er paint their cheeks so sickly ?
What disillusion it will be, —
Come, will it not, now, for a fellah
To see her he loved dotinglee
Turn out, at night so awful yellah P
All this, of course, is botheration.
Yet, ’tis the march Of civ’lization.
* * *


Public Companies
lOMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY.
Established 1334.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £575,000. Reserve Fund, £580,000.
Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Scarvell.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office —George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office —39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
■ Blanches in New South Wales.— Adelong, Albury,
Aronidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Camx>belltowi;, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Cootamnndra,
Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulbum, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed Eiver), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lers wang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodbum, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane. Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of south Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman's Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester • The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland: The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland ; The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Maeondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China,
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
f!li inn..
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney,
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
amount of the entire PROFITS of the
proportionate
Society at eve
every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STREET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049.
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Ruble, Esq,
T. R. Smith, Esq., M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses ; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BRAY,
Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
’ WILLIAM JARRETT.
Manager,
E
XCELSIOR LAND INVESTMENT AND
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
■he above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
las. Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
m, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
owing liberal terms—viz.,
;200 House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
1400 do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
800 do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
ill information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
set. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing. Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Public Companies
The mercantile bank op Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £360,000
Reserve Fund £115,000
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
, Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITOES:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
lOENWALL FIEE AND MARINE INSUE-
' , ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL. £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND ... £BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Eisks accepted by
G. A. LL O Y D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEEET,
SkDNEY.
Photographers
w
458 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
PHOTOGEAPHY IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERMANENT TINTS.
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER,
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d per dozen.
NOTICE.
JEOARTY,
• PHOTOGRAPHER,
604 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
Begs to inform his numerous patrons that he has just
completed extensive alterations in his premises con-
ducive to the successful working of his increasing busi-
ness, having imported, at great expense, the most
most modem appliances from the best London makers,
and having a staff of first-class assistants. By thus
studying the comfort of his customers, and his own
success, in every particular, he trusts to receive a con-
tinuance of that patronage which he has for many years
possessed.
J. E. wishes also to be understood that he employs
no Door Touter to annoy passers-by; such practice he
considers degrading in the extreme.
Portraits in all the latest styles executed with dis-
patch. Carte de Visites, artistically finished, reduced
to 7s 6d per dozen, 7s 6d per dozen, 7s 6d per dozen.
F
EEEMAN AND COMPANY,
PHOTOGRAPHERS
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVERNOR,
346 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Oil, Crayon, and Miniature Painters.
Permanent Autotype Enlargements up to Life Size.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART,
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STEEET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) of
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Irik
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
HE CITY STORES, TO LET.
T
Those MAGNIFICENT and SPACIOUS STORES in
Pitt-street —between Bathurst and Liverpool-streets,
the centre of the city erected by Mr. F. Scholer,
and just being finished, are TO LET, separately or
together. The stores are spacious, well lighted, and
have splendid cellarage, with hoists, &c. —Early appli-
cation to Mr. F. SCHOLEE, 107, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
0 MANUFACTURERS OR THEATRICAL
MANAGERS. TO LET, in Castlereagh-
it. near King-street.—The commodious premises
erly known as the SCANDINAVIAN HALL, with
t shops and business places. The Hall is capable ot
ing 1000 people, and in good hands ( owing to its
tal situation) would pay well. —Apply F. SCHOLEE,.
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
m
L
w
M
m
/
► Bl TBJf lUT IN TUB WORLD
W.DAVJiSSG? bo alb urn. X.SJH/
• tST
THE
Muawoaui»
FAtm/Kia or
T
HE BEST PAINT IN THE WOELD
x>
m
Of //yWBL
A
rAtitfillfßOOA
ECZti'.iV-: AV.
LASTIC
f.K
WM
&
THE PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and i gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with’handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
ns:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
EUBBEE PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMSTEONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STEEET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STEEET,
(Near Hunter-street),
RH E L L T E E,
• ELECTEO-PLATEE and gildee,
42 Park-street,
SILVEE-PLATED JEWELLEEY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate,
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STEEET
(Near Hunter-street).
AND S. PEEDDET.
* SAW MILLS AND TIMBEE TAED,
16 Eeskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
g GLASSO N’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEEL WEIGHT
WOEKS,
Haeeis-stbeet, off Geobge-steket,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Eailway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drjiys, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street. near Eailway Bridge.
w.
H. A E I E
PEG VISION MEECHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 AND 345 Kent-steeet, neak King-stbekt.
L L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned
E. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.
ABODE BAZAAE,
FUENITUEE SHOW BOOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STEEET.
Established a.d. 1840,
A. MOOEE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, &c., can
be purchased at the LABOUE BAZAAE at a cheaper
rate than at anv other house in the olonies.
liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manulactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
ALEXANDER MOOEE AND CO,.
and Importers.
N
EW REFLECTING LAMPS FOE GAS OR
KEEOSENE. "
4r
*
T.
\\/a\
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, &c.
BAEWELL AND FISHER’S DUPLEX
GAS BUENEES JUST AEEIVED.
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFOED, 65 MARKET STREET.
T
HOM AS
WEBB
AND SONS,
GLASS AND CHINA MEECHANTS,
BOND STEEET,
SYDNEY
WHOLESALE AND EETAIL AGENTS
FOE
WEDGWOOD & MINTON’S POTTEEY.
Inspection invited.
JpEO BONO PUBLICO.
THE MUTUAL TEADE PEOTECTION ASSOCIA-
TION OF N. S. W.
J. HUEST, Secretary.
Offices: 32 BEIDGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
Established upon the most improved mutual principle
for the protection of Merchants and Traders, against
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, under the auspices of
the leading Mercantile community.
The following business is undertaken, either direct,
or through the intervention of the Society’s So-
licitor =—
The recovery of rents and debts by legal process or
otherwise, by written or personal application, through
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or assignment, drawn out
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, and Preferable Liens
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Eegistered Documents of all kinds
The Certificates of fradulent or.unprincipled insolvents
opposed in the interests of creditors.
Debts proved in insolvent estates, and Books audited
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and made to surrender.
Searches and Private Inquiries made.
A Credit Guide issued periodically, and “Warning
Notices ” sent to members when required.
Assigned Estate supervised or liquidated.
Searches or Inquiries made and answered in regard to
all kinds of Mortgages, Bills of Sale, Preferable
Liens, Protection Orders, &c.
Postages, Cash Outlay for Court Fees, &c., charged
accordingly.
Eecords Filed at the Offices of the Association con-
cerning aU Eegistered Acts executed in Canada,
United States, England, Scotland. Ireland, and the
Australian Colonies, New Zealand, &c.
N.B.—The facilities thus offered to the mercantile
public enable those who wish to be safe in credit
transactions to achieve both legal rights and protec-
tion by the powerful co-operation of unity, as based
upon mutual principles.
Membership for Inquiry Branch, only 10s 6d per
annum. Membership for General Branch, £1 Is per
annum.
SELLABLE COUNTEY AGENTS WANTED,
T
HOS. J. BOWN &
ENGINEBES, BEASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
CO.,
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITAEY WAEE,
HOSE, &c.
C-'
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Eepairs of every description executed.
107 BATHUEST-STEEET, SYDNEY.


Business Announ
W. H - p A
PIANOFORTE WAR:
352 George-stres
PIANOFORTES. PIA
JUST RECEIVED. JUS'
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPI
A splendid stock to sel
EVERT RENOWNED
AMERICAN OR(
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and s
OVER ALL OTB
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIOI
HARMONIUI
. BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENO
in all the various n
A FEW GOOD SECOND-B
at low prices, now u
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hr
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters
and Warren's, and Smith and
352 GEORGE S’
Opposite Wynyard-
Sydney.
T
H 0 M A S W
ENGINEER & IRONI
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & C
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 22(
Tobacconist
JAMES
CELEBEATEJ
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Buby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Lea
Best Imported Bn
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and I
159
PITT ST]
Next Post Offic
*
TIN TAG TOBi!
None are genuine but the I
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or TANKS
dixson & so:
15 TOEK STEEET,
SMOKE
EUREKA CIG^
MILD, FRAGRANT, &
Chemists and Dn
J3 U B L I C N
THE following Lii
WATSON’S RENOWNED I
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to th
Watson’s (Vegetable) Anti
Watson’s (Vegetable) Woi
Watson’s Gingerbread Woi
Watson’s Compound Chloi
Watson’s Strengthening E
Watson’s Australian Verm
Watson’s Excelsior Toothi
Watson’s Concentrated Gc
Elixir (a most valuabl
can be obtained, wholesale and »
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STRi
POTHECAEIE
14 OXFORD STRI
Neae Hyde Park (
(N.B. —The Tram-car stop
W. D. EAMBS, P]
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEJ
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and Ne?
W. D. E. thanks the public ant
for the support hitherto accorded 1
Irrespective of Club prescriptioi
has dispensed 34,000 original prest
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR TH]
Every prescription is CAREFU
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbe:
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the follt
EAMES’S QUINI
Which improves the appetite ai
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGEST]
For severe cases where the gastr
and when sickness and flatulen
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTI
Which relieve the bowels gently, t
naturally healthy functions
organs.
Chemists and Dn
T
AKE NO MO!
but try
RANDERSON’
PODOPHYLLIN L02
Do yon SUFFER from HEAI
Then try
PODOPHYL
Do yon Complain of Indigestii
Take a few doses of
PODOPHYL
Do yon Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, anc
RANDERSC
Do yon constantly suffer from
If so remembi
PODOPHY1
will soon cure, if taken as <
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDK
Are any|of your children sick
can safely give chem one
for the small members of
TAKE WEI
W Remember this, and alwayi
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Pr
EDWARD ROW and <
45 and 47 George-sl
T EOYAL LETTE
The Greates
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON’I
AUSTRALIAN OINI
Guaranteed tol
Free from all poisonous qualiti
of Vegetable Mattel
Being made from the Wild Plant
in the Bush of New Sou
This Ointment is not a mere ca
public, nor does it require any pu
as it has been so well proved for tl
that it is impossible that the publi
long deceived. In fact, people are:
lous regarding its efficacy (never
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot belt
But one trial will convince the n
High and low, rich and poor, hav
fits from its use, and scarcely an
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the c
The quick and instant relief from
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP T]
which, taken altogether, prove the.
to be the Eighth Wonder of the V
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft cor
casualties attending the human b
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy E
find immediate relief and be pert
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Josephson
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly foi
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns ar
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excorial
tion when a remedy like Jose;
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles \
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ii
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-ert
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fi
and totally free from ary and all
sonous properties,
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S I
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storek
and Is 6d each throughout the colo
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD RO
ENTEAL PH
78 (Late 84) KING SI
TKAMWAT TICKETS..
GROCE
Are acknowledged b
THE BEST TEA IE
THE CHEAPEST 1
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES an
GEOCEEIES.
Country Orders promptly i
193 OXFORD
POSTAGE STAMPS.
(Opposite Coort-ho
DAELINGHU
P
ERMEWAN, WEI
(LIMITED).
Capital—£100,000, in 20,000 Slu
(Established 1858
KAILWAF and GENEEAL CAE]
and
SHIPPING AGES
Directors :
Hon. HENET CUTHBEET, M.L,
C, W. GIBSON, Esq. (Messrs. Fisl
JOHN PEEMEWAN, Esq. J.P. I ,
JOHN E. WEIGH, Esq. $ a
Eegistered Office—120 Collins-strei
Sydney Office—King.street, next i
. and Sons.
Branch Offices i


B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINI
A combination of Oxygenated Sa
of LEMONS, LIMES, and OEi
Takem according to direction <
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a j
ration a remedy as a preventive or cur<
all Functional Irregularities of the Li
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitual C
purities of the Blood, Sea-Si eknt
Indigestion, the effects propuced by
dulgence in rich food, or the atm
beverages ;Gout, Rheumatism, &c.; a(
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphthern
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climi
diseases. It is especially serviceable
and should entirely supersede the i
aperients. Children take it with pie
vigorating effect of an occasional dose
to successfully combat the insidious at
It effectually destroys the Poison Gen
contracted in our daily walk through
alterative and enriching qualities it p
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy i
functions in the wonderful economy o
piece—Man. Remember this is N
supplied by the Science of Chemistr
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SA]
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISH
A
PPROVED BY THE
Government 1
10th Jar
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I hai
that the parcel was received in good
reason of my not writing to you before
of my wishing that the * Saline ’ shoule
am now directed to inform you that
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and i
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Yours faithfu
“ Reginald I
“Mr. W. 6. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH
B
The Australian Chtirchma:
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERYES
We can honestly recomme
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUPAC
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FEUI
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Ps
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bbttles
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., S
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
Af'J Y JEWeM-EF^v''^’ \
N]ADE
pi/\IN F\lCfj SfOC
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks —simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all !
Plain figures—Low pric
N J 0 Y L
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE „v RETAIL IMPORTERS i
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
1 OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
Shii
m
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
\\StO
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES EEEELT, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &o.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, <fcc.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Faint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP k CO.,
ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
F
ACTS WHICH CONCERN EVERYBODY
AT SOME PERIOD OF LIFE.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
FULL INFORMATION GRATIS.
House furnishing is not an easy task, hut our Guides
are of great assistance; they show clearly what is ob-
tainable for certain sums of mony, and bring to mind
many things which might otherwise be forgotten.
THE NEW GOODS CONSTANTLY ARRIVING
KEEPS EVERYTHING NICE AND FRESH.
If you hare £l5 to spend
If you have £25 to spend
If you have £35 to spend
H you have £5O to spend
It you have £7O to spend
If you have £lOO to spend
If you have £2OO to spend
If you have £3OO to spend
YOU CAN SPEND IT TO
ADVANTAGE
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
Open every evening until nine o’clock.
A N L Y BEACH.
EDMUND MOORE, FAMILY BUTCHER,
(Successor to A. Porter),
CORNER BELGRAVE AND RAGLAN STREETS,
MANLY.
Best country killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
kinds of Poultry, Small Goods always on hand.
Families waited on daily.
Sims and parke s,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
TREAT ALL DISEASES WITH HERBS.
BOOKS FOR NOTHING—GET ONE!
Yon will get information that may save you pounds,
and perhaps months, or even years of suffering.
Address: 240 GEORGE STREET NORTH,
Opposite Charlotte Place,
SYDNEY.
WOMAN ITEMS.
The blood of Marie Stuart flows in the veins of
every reigning family in Europe, except that of Turkey.
Temora papers allege that a Mrs. Hall, who
weighs a little under 19st, the other day fell down a
60ft shaft and received no injuries.
At the Botham (Melbourne) police court, in an
action for the maintenance of an illegitimate child, the
father offered to marry the mother of the child, who
indignantly refused.
Simon Bromberg, the defendant in the Brisbane
breach of promise case, has been remanded on a charge
of child desertion. He is declared insolvent on his own
petition. “ Love, love, beautiful love !’*
At Turakina Valley, N.Z., recently, an old lady
died, aged 96. She was placing on a fence some articles
which had just been washed, when she quietly sank
down and yielded up her life. Her husband (the
venerable pair had been united in wedlock 77 years) died
only eleven weeks previously, aged 102. He came to the
colony at the age of 60, and succumbed after 42 years of
active colonial life.
In the divorce case Sorensen v. Sorensen, at
Melbourne —wife against husband —the Court granted a
dissolution of marriage The wife is 21 and the husband
45. Spring and winter again. The happy pair had been
married seven years, and had had one child. The cause
of the trouble appears to have been that the husband
had had to employ the winged messenger of Olympus—
or at any rate a namesake of his—to follow Venus.
When Mrs. Hayes first entered the White
House she, at receptions, let every one shake her hand
until her fingers were cramped and bruised and
her whole arm aching and swollen. Now, however, by
a clever stratagem, she seizes the approaching hand
firmly, catching it close up between the_ thumb and
knuckles in such away that the stranger is unable to
return the grip. Every one is pleased at her genuine
hearty handshake, and, unconscious of the little trick,
wonders how she can keep it up for a whole evening.
At Warmambool, the other day, as Cobb’s
coach was about to start, a handsome young couple,
who had arrived at the hotel that afternoon, stepped
confidently out to take their seats. Their progress was
suddenly arrested by a rough-looking elderly man, who
demanded to know what the gentleman was going to do
with the lady. “That lady is my wife,” said the
gentleman, “ She’s not; she’s my daughter,” was the
reply. There was a long and acrimonious discussion on
the subject, but it was terminated by the production of
the marriage certificate—but not before the persecuted
bride had fainted (or feinted) in the arms of the land-
lord.
Yass still continues famed for the greatness of
its female, and the smallness of its male, population.
The girls have lately introduced a new system to regu-
late the relations between the sexes. Whenever anyone
new in the shape of a man is coming, they raffle him.
The fortunate winner is then supposed to have a vested
right in the unfortunate individual, which must keep
all other designing Belindas at a distance. The other
day a new doctor, or parson, or barber, or some such
other professional man, was expected, and was of course
disposed of in the usual manner. When he turned up
it was found, much to the disgust of the lucky one, that
he was an old married man, with a large family.
THE KOOKABURRA.
“ Court” —Caught.
A cool head. —A numb-skull.
Capital sky-light—the moon.
A fiery brute.—The iron horse.
A very old telephone.—The key-note.
The Town Hall clock keeps time effectually.
A Pre-Adamite Fashionable. —A Swell of the
Ocean.
A wag says that Lunacy is an alias. ’Twas
O’Lunacy.
We’re prepared to print a kiss, and yet will
never publish it.
Some friends are like a shadow. They’re only
with you in sunshine.
The Tumut snake story about 15 chickens inside
one snake is Tumut-ch.
A Bengalee once said that the British can “ only
make penknives and cotton goods, and conquer the
world.”
“ Have you a mother-in-law ?” asked a man of a
disconsolate-looking person. “ No," he replied, “ but
I’ve a father in gaol.” •
The Bed Cross Preserving Company, South
Yarra, have taken at Melbourne Exhibition eight first
prizes and one second! Jam satis.
On presenting a beautiful lace collar to his
adored, he remarked, “ Don’t let anybody rumple it.”
‘‘No dear,” she replied, “I’ll take it off.”
Ashmead and the Baroness are just as happy
as sucking doves. Aunt writes us that he calls her
“ Burdie,” and she keeps her teeth in his shaving mug.
If you’re a girl and put wedding-cake under
your pillow you dream of your future husband. If you
put it in your stomach it causes yon to dream of mon-
sters. However, both mean the same thing.
At a well-known debating society the other
night a member in concluding his speech said, “ Gentle-
men can take these remarks for what they are worth,”
etc. A member passed the speaker a copper, remarking,
“ You needn’t mind the change.” The orator was
flabbergasted.
His Worship : “ Aboriginals know it is against
the law for them to get drunk. I will therefore
fine them in the highest penalty. Budgeree Jimmy,
drunkenness, JB1; Jehn Jones, labourer, drunkenness,
10s. Budgeree Jimmy: “Too much yabber, that fel-
low. S’pose whitefellow not know all same along o’ me?
Why you not fine him all same, too ? Bael gammon !”
Over the garden gate bends a man.
Giving a maiden taffy.
Somebody’s getting as mad as he can ;
'Tis her sire—Cornelius Mahaffy.
Over his bunioned feet, ham-like bands
Are pulling his boots on quickly;
Still at the garden gate Oscar stands.
Soon will his smile be sickly.
There’s a wheezing sound and a smothered cry;
She’s alone, like a house that is haunted.
But, hap’ly for him, there's a doctor nigh
Who will put arnica just where it’s wanted.
.£lOOO a week is the income of the Irish Land
League.
All the principal towns of Switzerland are to be
connected by the telephone.
Emigration to Australia is unpopular in Eng-
land. The decrease last year was from 30,000 to 18,000.
In the States, on Washington’s birthday, the
Democratic party organized, as a signal act, a nacional
free-trade movement.
ELAINE.
The lark sings in the welkin high
As the glad sun gleams through the cloudless sky.
Ah I well-a-day!
Ah I well-a-day!
The fairest of brides, in beauty bedight,
Greets at her lattice the morning light.
And ever again
She dreams of his passionate kisses last night.
Happy Elaine 1
The owl hoots in .the belfry high
As the lone moon glides through the cloudy sky.
Ah! well-a-day!
Ah! well-a-day!
Sir Eupert lies under the linden tree ;
Shielding thine honour, his death met he:
And never again
Will he kiss thy sweet lips. Ah, miserie !
Hapless Elaine!
G.S.


prizes Waltham Watches, awarded two first
Higher „ e “?'™ e International Exhibition, 1880.
~-Adv awarcls IHan any exhibitors of watches received.
(Continued from page 4.)
That distinguished medico, Dr. Harman-Tarrant,
has been driven from Elizabeth-street by the rumble of
the tram, and has now taken a residence in Macquarie-
street, opposite the Infirmary gates. It will now, we
suppose, always be “ his week ” at the hospital. Dr.
Mackellar has been forced by the tram to leave his
(Liverpool-street) house, and is now in Macquarie-atreet.
Many of the lawyers are about to quit their offices in
Elizabeth-street, and several more medicos intend
changing their quarters shortly.
Mr. C. B. Fisher has joined Messrs. Maurice
Lyons and A. W. Sergison in their extensive pastoral
and agricultural properties in the Northern Territory.
Arrangements have been made to start immediately
several herds of choice cattle, numbering about 20,000
head, under the supervision of Mr. Nathaniel Buchanan.
The owners intend soon to have 50,000 head of cattle
on the country. They are also starting about 500 head
of well-bred mares and necessary stallions for the runs,
as the beginning of a large stud to breed horses for the
Indian market.
Among the actual and probable candidates for
the V.E.G. secretaryship are Mr. G. A. Brown, of the
ARGOS, Superintendent Hare, of the police force, Mr.
T. Haydon, secretary of the A.C.0., Mr. W. Bahlert,
secretary of the Ballarat T.C., Mr. A. F. Bradshaw
(Melbourne Sportsman), and Mr. Chapman (“Augur,”
of the Australasian). Mr. Clibborn, of the A.J.C.,
would be sure of the appointment were he to apply.
However, the contest is understood to be between the
two first-named gentlemen. All applications to be in
on Ist June.
“ Ouida,” shortly before her death, wrote to the
London Times on International copyright. Alluding
to American piracies of her works, she wrote " Why
should the whole American nation profit by and amuse
itself with the writings of English authors without
those authors’ leave and profit in return ? It is no
question of free trade; it is a question of unblushing
robbery. I can protect my horse, my rings, the sauce-
pans my cook uses, the spade my gardener works with ;
I cannot protect that work of my own brain which
without me could never have taken shape or seen the
light, and must be more intrinsically and utterly mine
than anything on earth.” The letter is dated from
Rome.
The proceedings in the Insolvent Court on the
3rd inst. were of unusual interest, consequent upon the
application of Mr. W. L. Murdoch, the well-known
captain of the Australian Eleven, for a certificate of
conformity, being on the list for hearing. There were
no objections, and his Honor granted the certificate.
Very many unpleasant rumors have been circulated
concerning the cause of Mr. Murdoch’s insolvency. We
are, therefore, glad to learn from the papers filed in the
estate that the pecuniary misfortune of our champion
wielder of the willow was entirely due to his embarking
in a shipping speculation in the South Seas, which, so
far from turning np trumps, resulted in the total loss of
the vessel and her cargo at Noumea, and the insolvency
of Mr. Murdoch, who lost his all in the venture. How-
ever, the gallant batsman has once more a fair start,
and we wish him " better luck next time.”
Mr. John Robertson, an old resident of Sydney,
died at the residence of his granddaughter, the Dundee
Arms, Sussex-street, on Friday morning, aged 102. He
was born in Dundee, Scotland, on the 13th August,
1779, and for some time carried on business in that
town as a commission agent. He afterwards emigrated
to New South Wales, arriving in Sydney, where he
traded as a timber merchant and shipowner, about
fifty-four years ago. Six years ago his wife died, aged
85. Mr. Robertson’s powers of hearing and seeing were
very slightly impaired, while he had a good appetite up
to within a day of his death. He generally enjoyed
good health of late years, and was conscious to the
last. Amongst those whom the deceased numbered
amongst his friends was Captain Johnstone, E.N., of
Annandale, who, although upwards of 90 years of age,
about ten days ago called to see the centenarian.
“Ouida” is dead, having attained a wide measure
of renown. Rigidly moral journalistsand high-church
curates with polished manners and subdued ritualistic
tendencies must alike mourn the loss of their favourite
piece de resistance. We wonder what she was like, —the
arraceful word-wielder, the weaver of honeyed sentences.
Latest accounts described her as growing stout—dread-
ful thought I Loving luxury, dressing neatly, talking
little, and fanning from the embers of a fruitless grande
passion of her own the soft dreams of love and sarcastic
mots about women of society with which she alternately
flecked her pages—these are the salient touches of her
latest pen-and-ink pourtrayal. Like most females
of pronounced literary character she was, we may
suppose, plain of feature and indifferent to ordinary
feminine delicacies. Much abused as were her novels,
they have obtained a world-wide circulation, especially
among the gilded youth of both sexes. Meretricious
sentiment and false feeling, with an unparalleled ac-
quaintance with, and power to reproduce the most
delicate os well as the most striking touches of the
light and shade of Continental life and manners—these
form her specialities as a writer. While the one may,
with her pruriency, repel the cultured taste and refined
sentiment, the other must ever invite the appreciation
of the imaginative reader open to the charms of the
sunny romance or lightly-limned legendary story.
Amoug all her works our favourite is “ Pascarel ’’—the
gossipy, garrulous “Pascarel.” Who cannot recal her
graceful description in that volume of those little
Italian towns, “half monastery, half fortress, scattered
over hiU and plain, by sea and river, on marsh and
mountain," within the cloistered aisles of whose
shadowed basilicas the artist grew to be a man
“making his dwelling in the heart of his birth-place,
with the tender sadness of the olive hills stretching
above and around ? " With delicacy of touch and
fineness of fancy does she not pourtray in a few well-
chosen words the history of that complete if somewhat
dreamy life! And ho w markedly the contrast comes out
between the quick distinction which she attained and
that won by the artist’s quiet life-labour“ His work
“T«8 after him. The little towns are all gray, and
still, and silent now; the iris grows on the ramparts;
tne reeds wave in the moat; the shadows sleep in the
deserted market-place; the great convents shelter
half-a-dozen monks, and the dim majestic churches are
damp and desolate, and have the scent of the sepulchre.
But there above the altar his wife lives in the Madonna,
his child smiles in the angel, and the olive and wheat
are fadeless on their grounds of gold and blue; and by
the tomb in the crypt the sacristan will shade his lamp,
and pausing, murmur with a sacred tenderness, ’ Here
he sleeps! ‘" . . . She has gone from the scene of
her woM-pictures and literary triumphs while “ Moths "
v , I Pistrella," her latest volumes, are still on
the shelves of her publishers. And her work lives after
her—for good or bad as it happens. Qui sait?
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Auckland now boasts an Institute of Architects.
Licensed Victuallers’ Associations annual picnic
—Botany, 10th inst.
v Th ? i B -®; Brisbane arrived on Friday, 29th, and
brought 380 more Chinese. ’
Anti-Chinese demonstration at Newcastle post-
poned for a fortnight owing to rain.
A large meeting has protested against the laying
down of a double tram line in Oxford-street.
The north-eastern district of Victoria (the
Kelly country) is again placed under complete sur-
veulance.
The N.S. Wales census, it is thought, will show
a population of 850.000 as against 900,000, the approxi-
mate population of Victoria.
One of the Italian immigrants refused to hire
himself to an up-country master on the ground that he
was afraid of the wild beasts.”
The Queensland transcontinental survey party
ii* ve a £i7 ed sa * e an d w ell at Lorraine, Leichhardt
Elver, 200 miles from Point Parker.
4 masB meeti ng at the Masonic Hall, on the
28th, appointed a deputation to make strong represen-
tton° nS *° ® against Chinese immigra-
Viners, Eogers & Co., whose works are situated
near Parramatta, are manufacturing kerosene of a
description equal, if not superior, to any kerosene
imported to this market.
Messrs. Mason Bros, have imported one of the
patent Merryweather tramway motors, alleged to be
smokeless, and free from the pulling noise caused
by the escape of steam. It will be tested in a
tew days.
The wines of Mr. A. Munro, of Singleton, and
of Mr. Be Castella, Victoria, were eonsiderd by the
judges at the Melbourne International to be of exactly
equal merit and to possess equal claims to the Emperor
of Germany’s prize.
So many murderers have got off lately in N.Z.
ttrough the disinclination of j'uries to convict of capital
offences that a strong section of the press argues in
favour of the abolition of the death penalty—in fact
advocates the substitution of certain for severe punish-
ment.
Population of Melbourne and suburbs 271,667
an increase of 66,288 in ten years. Melbourne city has
a f p oP£| at i°n of 65.265. Ballarat has 38,469, a decrease
and Sandhurst 28,128—an increase of about
WXK). There is a heavy decrease in the Chinese popu-
lation. r
The artillery cadets—consisting of youths who
either are or have been pupils in the various public
schools—marched out on Saturday afternoon with two
small field-guns from Victoria barracks to Mrs. Mac-
quanes Chair, under the command of Capt. Strong and
® reen « their drill instructor.
At the Ghair.the guns were unlimbered and some smart
Pf ac^lce done. The youngsters made a very
creditable appearance.
An old resident of Newcastle has munificently
offered 1000 shares (£1 paid value) in the Newcastle
Coal Company in aid of the new local Sailors* Home.
There was a technical illegality in the prelimi-
nary proceedings against Wilkinson for murder near
Albury, but it will not be allowed to interefere with his
execution.
A daring attempt at burglary took place at the
Seymour branch of the Bank of Victoria last Friday
morning. Mr. Hayes, the manager (who, when
accountant five years ago was gagged and robbed), fired
two shots at the burglar, who escaped. Some unim-
portant papers only were stolen.
Eighty cases are set down for trial at the Supreme
Court, among which are several libel suits, and two
actions arising out of the Town Hall foundation ex-
josures. The latter are, strangely enough, last on the
list—perhaps, however, because foundations should be
in such a position. And perhaps that’s not the reason.
A shipmaster writes to a Sydney journal com-
plaining of the poor remuneration enjoyed by captains
of vessels. He says the average is between £2(X) and
£3OO a year. If the captain is married, he has to
support two homes, and his life insurance rates are
about 3 per cent, higher than those charged to lands-
men.
Good Templary, according to the latest reports,
is making rapid progress in the colony. There are now
174 working lodges, with a total roll of 9176 members—
an increase of 22 per cent, for the year. The juvenile
lodges have greatly augmented, and a very successful
lodge was formed on the Blairgowrie immigrant ship
while en route to this colony.
It is contended by a writer in a city contem-
porary that £lOO,OOO could be expended by the Govern-
ment with direct money profit in the sinking of artesian
wells in different parts of the colony. Australia, he
contends, is best adapted for these wells, which, in the
course of a few years, would obliterate the words
“ desert ’’ and “ wilderness ” from our maps.
At Coonamble, on Saturday week, according to
the Mudgee Independent, a number of people burned
the effigy of Dr. Piercy (husband of Miss Dargon), in
the open square opposite the Post Office, just as the
gentleman named was leaving by coach for Sydney.
The alleged reason was that the doctor had rendered
himself unpopular by suing a poor woman for heavy
charges.
It is said that the correspondence about the late
licensing bungles (particularly in Dimond’s case) will
reveal numerous injudicious, if not illegal, acts on the
part of certain reverend gentlemen. Several magistrates
complain of efforts being made to influence their decision,
and in support of this statement they have furnished the
Colonial Secretary with copies of the letters addressed
to them. Publication shortly.
A boy named Frank Black, a Lyttleton (N.Z.)
resident, had a miraculous escape from being killed.
He rode on the Ashburton bridge, behind the train, at
full gallop, and consequently did not see that a portion
of the planking had been moved in the course of re-
pairs, the result being that the horse and rider were
precipitated through the opening on to the bed of
shingle, a fall of fifteen feet. The horse was killed
instantaneously. The boy escaped with severe cuts
about the face.
Melbourne Exhibition virtually closed on Satur-
day, when 11,000 persons paid for admittance.
There are usually about 110 “ drunks” before
the Central Police Court on Monday morning.
The E. and A. Co.’s boats during 1880 immigra-
ted to Australia 2564 Chinese and emigrated 2569.
One hundred and forty thousand sacks of wheat
are stored at Lyttleton, N.Z., awaiting shipment.
Australian swallows have been seen in Otago,
by Mr. Charles Bills, the indefatigable naturalist.
A man named Edward Thomas Smith shot a
blackfellow dead at Tewantin (Q.)and has been arrested.
The Orange Slaughtering Co. has now on its
books over 20,000 sheep and 800 cattle ready for killing
and freezing on squatters’ accounts.
The Colonial Secretary of Queensland protests
against the manner in which the black trackers were
dealt with in the matter of the Kelly awards.
A second edition of David Buchanan’s “ Speci-
mens of Australian Oratory ” is shortly to be published,
the sale of the first having been very successful.
By the ship Blairgowrie 352 immigrants of a
very respectable and useful class arrived at Sydney.
One death and two births occurred on the voyage.
The death-sentence of Gair, for arson at Dubbo,
has been commuted to seven years’ hard labor, as has
also that of the aboriginal Tommy Dick, sentenced to
death at Dubbo for murder.
A bogus company, the Haven Gold Mining
Company, Thames, N.Z., was at last accounts being
floated on the London market. The cable has been
used from New Zealand to expose the affair.
The Melbourne correspondent of the S. M.
Hekald says, in writing of the bazaar in aid of the
proposed local homoeopathic hospital (which resulted
in a gain to that institution of £1000), that “ globulism
is gone, and similism is going after it.
At Cowmore,near Gnnnedah, James White, alias
John Williams, who had quarrelled and had a scuffle
with John Collier, returned and stabbed the latter in
the arm. The wounded man bled to death in twenty
minutes. White has been committed for trial.
Eighty guests attended the Carriers’ Associa-
tion first annual dinner, at Compagnoni’s. Mr. Kichard
Shortland occupied the chair, and Mr. E. W. Gordon
the vice-chair. The toast of the evening, “ The Carriers’
Association,” was proposed by Mr. G. L. Carter,
M.L.A.
Mr. Josiah Mullens suggests that as the
interests of the A.M.P. Society are bound up with the
longevity and health of colonists, the Society ab»H
lend no money on buildings in localities where sanitary
matters have been neglected. The proposal is well
received.
Mr. and Mrs. Jarvis, dairykeepers. East Mary-
borough (Q.) f were barbarously murdered on Friday or
Saturday morning last. Both were quite dead when
found lying near their own residence. The man’s arms
were broken and the woman’s throat cut. The
murderer, who has so far not beeen arrested, waited
for the unhappy pair at their gate, jumped into the
cart in which they returned from town, tomahawked
Jarvis, and then killed the woman.
There has been a great tangi at Moeraki, in
Otago, N.Z., over the remains of Matiaha Tiramareha,
a deceased chief. Matiaha farmed, bred horses, dealt
largely in land, and was about starting a Maori news-
paper. He died in the office amongst the plant. Retri-
bution !
The Esbank Iron Works Co. hope, now that
their new machinery has arrived, to turn out 300 tons
of manufactured iron weekly. Sheet iron, merchants’
iron (rod, bar, Ac.) fencing wire, and hook iron are
included in the list of manufacture. And this without
Protection I
A libel action was recently brought in the
Adelaide Supreme Court against the proprietors of the
S. A. Register, by Jane Elizabeth Bonny, who claimed
£5OO damages for an alleged misreport of a police court
case, in which the plaintiff was charged with stealing,
but was acquitted. The case was a very paltry one, and
a verdict for the defendants, with costs, was returned
by the jury after two minutes’ consultation.
Mr. M‘lvor, the well-known chemist, who was
sent over by Melbourne capitalists to inspect the
sulphur deposits at "White Island, Tauranga, N.Z., and
to report whether it would be advisable to erect a
chemical manufactory for the preparation of sulphuric
acid and chemical manures, has returned, and is favour-
ably impressed with the resources of the island. He
considers that a very important industry can be main-
tained. Wilson’s sulphur works at Tauranga will be
taken over and improved.
Messrs. Ireland Brothers’ tannery, situated at
Panmure, Auckland, N.Z., said to be one of the largest
in the Australian colonies, has been burnt to the
ground. Cause of the fire unknown. Insurance losses
—New Zealand, £3500; Union, £700; Standard, £350 •
National, £350; Transatlantic, £800; Victoria, £3OO-
- British, £7OO. The North British and Mercan-
tile had a policy of £lOOO from the New Zealand, bnt it
is expected that the lot will not exceed £7OO. Several
other fires have also occurred in different parts of New
Zealand.
The fleet of war-vessels which have for some
weeks past been lying at anchor in Farm Cove, and all of
which took part in the recent naval manoeuvres, have
left the port. The four war-schooners left under sealed
orders for the South Seas. The Emerald sailed on the
20th for the Line Islands, and returns via the Solomons.
The Miranda left the following day for Fiji, thence to
Rotumah, Samoa, and Friendly Islands. The Cor-
morant shapes a conrse to the Solomons direct, where
she will remain a few months. The Wolverene is
bound for New Zealand.
The last annual meeting gave fresh evidence of
the enormous wealth and stability of the Australian
Mutual Provident Society. During the year, 6551 pro-
proposals had been accepted for £2,181,258. The accu-
mulated surplus was £3,379,510, showing an increase of
£445,713, the balance of receipts over disbursements.
The total policies issued weres9,ooo, assuring £21,854,008,
and che annual income was £759,768. If the Society,
were wound up next quinquennium (now near at hand)
there would be almost £1,000,000 surplus for dividends
being an average profit of £200,000 annually.
Whitelaw, superintendent of the Mount View
Asylum, Wellington, N.Z., has been arrested formal-
treating a lunatic. We read that "an inoffensive
patient named William M’lntosh was, by direction of
the superintendent, dragged from his bed at 10 o’clock
on a midwinter night, stripped, conducted across an
exposed yard, placed in a confined shower-bath, 20min.,
and kept under a continuous shower of cold water for
ten minutes or thereabouts, without any possible
escape, the superintendent himself handling the tap
which regulated the water, until, upon the door of the
bath being opened, to quote the description of an atten-
dant present at the time (T. Carroll), ‘ he staggered out
into my arms.’ ’*
At Melbourne, at 5 o’clock on Tuesday morn-
ing, a man named Henry Colley called at a house of
ill-fame and asked for a girl named Amy Lewis, aged
abost 17. He went to her room, from which screams
of “murder" at once issued. Lillie George, the pro-
prietress of the house, burst open the door and found
Colley cutting the girl’s throat with a razor. She
seized his hair, but he turned, ran her back to her own
bedroom, and again cut Lewis’ throat in several places.
On being again attacked by George he tried to cut her
throat too, but failed, owing to the interposition of
another woman, who, with George’s assistance, threw
him. He while on the ground cut his own throat from
ear to ear. George, streaming with blood, ran out in
her nightdress, and went to Prince’s Bridge for the
police, who came and took away both man and woman
to the hospital. Colley was iealous of the girl Lewis.
This is from the scientists on the poison of
snakes. Chemical analysis fails to detect anything in
it to account for its action. Water, a little albumen,
some mineral salts, and traces of mucus, epithelial cells,
etc., lumped together as “ extractive." Nothing specific
about it at all. Tasteless, colorless, and inodorous,
and it may be rubbed on the sound skin, or applied to
the eyes, or taken into the mouth, without any result
whatever. The bites of different kinds of snakes pro-
duce different results. No true antidote has ever been
discovered, and the search for any antidote against the
bite of all snakes is considered irrational in the extreme,
seeing that there are so many different poisons pro-
ducing, in many cases, opposite effects. It would be
quite as likely to find a general antidote for opium, bella-
donna, strychnine, arsenic, and mercury poisoning.
Ammonia is not an antidote, being nothing more than
a strong stimulant.
SOCIAL.
The eldest son of a wealthy Clarence River grazier
will shortly lead to the hymeneal altar the second
daughter of a popular Grafton commercial man.
The Tasmanian Club recently had an honoured
guest. He played whist well j his winnings were paid
in coin—his losings in 1.0.U.’5.. He’s not a guest now.
This is such a select Club.
The marriage of Mr. Gus. T. C. Miller, of the
CooiiA Express, to the eldest daughter of Mr. E. Hem-
son, town clerk of Cooma, will take place at St. Paul's
Church, Cooma, on 7th instant.
The Governor of South Australia has received a
message from Lord Kimberley, regretting that owing to
the detention of the flying squadron at the Cape they
will not be able to call at Adelaide.
The daughter of his Honor Mr. Justice Windeyer,
who was married last week, is the young lady who made
such a charming Rosalind at the first Fancy Dress Ball
in the Exhibition some time back.
The Mayoress held a reception at the Town Hall
on Friday. About 300 ladies and gentlemen were pre-
sented. The affair, which was the first of the kind held
in the Town Hall, passed off most successfully.
Burwoqd assembly ball . comes off to-morrow
(Friday) night. A large and fashionable gathering and
a very enjoyable evening are anticipated. The only pity
is that the affair breaks up at twelve. Dancing begins
at eight.
A fashionable marriage took place at St. James’s
yesterday (Wednesday), when Mr. Charles Lamb was
married to Miss Brennan. The church was specially
decorated for the event, and a large number of
spectators were present.
The daughter of a well-known public man, not
long deceased, is about to try and annul the contract
which binds her to her “ worser half.” He has been
away for a long time without communicating his where-
abouts, and has left her with five children.
That grand Grafton wedding did not finish up
well. The happy pair started for their honeymoon in a
crowded excursion steamer, whose numerous (and, per-
haps, envious) passengers “ looked round the comer ”
and were merry at the expense of the unhappy pair.
At a recent Maori wedding at Kaiapoi, the
bride had two train-bearers, twelve bridesmaids (attired
in white, with scarlet sashes, and blue veils round
their hats!), and a 250-lb. cake. However, it somewhat
takes the romance out of the affair to learn that ‘‘a
quantity of dried shark ” was amongst the provisions.
Miss Hancock, daughter of an old resident of
Brisbane, Dr. Hancock, was married on the 27th April
to Captain M’Cullum, adjutant of the Volunteer Rifles.
An immense crowd gathered both inside snd outside of
St. John’s Church, where the ceremony was performed.
The wedding was the most fashionable affair of the kind
which has yet occurred in Brisbane.
The daughter of a well-known Victorian police
magistrate eloped the other day with the son of a Bal-
larat solicitor, and they were married at a registrar’s
office. Immediately after the ceremony the father of
the bride arrived upon the scene, and compelled her to
return home—in other words re-Called her. The bride
is Miss Call; the bridegroom Mr. Fred Mitchell.
At the “grand skating contest,” at the Ex-
hibition on Saturday night, the gentleman who acted as
starter apparently knew as much about starting skaters
as he would have known about starting sky-rockets on a
similar performance. He innocently proposed to place
the ten competitors in a row and start them by pistol
shot over the 30ft. floor. Some of the disgusted
skaters suggested starting him with a pistol shot. At
length he bethought himself of the plan adopted by
Noah for getting animals into the ark, and sent the
skaters off in pairs. A tall youth, mostly composed of
legs,careered round twice and then disappeared with his
mate. Two more people then scooped splinters from
the floor, scraped the paint off the posts, sat down and
got up again in a highly excited manner. The starter
said they had “ done enongh”; most people thought
they had done more than that. An Oriental-featured
gentleman, with a pair of dangerously thin legs (who
would have been a good skater had both continuations
been willing to travel in the same direction),and a young
man with a very blue coat and a very red nose waltzed
round cautiously, and then seemed doubtful whether
after all Nature had intended them for prize-skaters.
So they retired. Then there was a deal more of the
same kind of thing, and it was announced that the
affair was over, and that the prize had been awarded.
There were a lot ef people present who had come with
the intention of competing, but their modesty debarred
them from doing so.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Braidwood Good Templars formed a road in
the afternoon and cut up sandwiches in the evening of
the Sunday preceding their Easter-Monday picnic
Mr. Mirts, superintendent of Victorian railways, has
invented a very convenient carriage for long-distance
passengers Fleming v. Newcastle Borough Council,
for £lOOO damages for alleged injury to property, resulted
in a verdict for defendants The Fitzroy (Mel.)
Council propose to light their district as far as prac-
ticable by aid of the electric light Mr, Amess,
brother of the late Mayor of Melbourne, is dead
Paterson and Co., of Warrnambool, &c., who recently
called a meeting of their creditors, announce their
liabilities at £27,000 with £12,000 secured assets Cass
and Co., of Melbourne paid the fine of £l5OO inflicted
on them for attempted smuggling. On payment of £2OO
duty the impounded silks will be given up Kittson,
a miner, killed at Minmi on the 26th by a fall of coal
Smith, a miner, charged at Adelong with sending ex-
plosives through the post office with a felonious attempt,
has been acquitted Man named Proctor killed by a
falling tree near Wallabadah ; when fonnd, his legs were
burnt off Victorian Government taking action against
the reckless storing of explosives in Melbourne
Fresh gold discoveries near Adelong .. M. W. H
Mullen, the well-known solicitor of West Maitland, has
taken into his service an Italian immigrant'and his three
young children; the wife and mother died at New Ire-
land of starvation A large amount of local interest
was manifested in the case of Francis Cassidy, tried at
THOMAS CARLYLE.
Into the Unknown Land!
The home of shadows and mystery;
BoaJ of human hopes and imaginings,
wu- e £ ce T° f entered—none has deigned answer ;
wmther f —till entered—inscrutable secret 1
Into that land a great soul has journeyed—
Tvnj o ’ °I all men, heightened the mystery,
illed us with awe for the dark unattainable,
eeply revering the vague, the unknowable—
ue who, of all, cried loudest for answer!
Hater of shams was he—of all falsities;
'^ re3 tlmg wherever he found them,
mt a life battling—unaided, unheeded:
relaxing, never despairing;
r I™ 1 . 11 ? last the ears of all nations.
JJnto the world of brainless flunkeydom.
flattering it’s all imbecilities,
T^ bW iV > ' )e ?.^ na,n itieB, fossilised doctrines—
into the thick of it, ever undaunted—
and hypocrisy ever their foe.
into the heart of national habits,
rteedlßsaly scoffing pet views of the million
nenever he judged them vicious, untrue.
Tiro? irom earth deep-rooted convictions :
«amless royalty, blood aristocracy,
pSi en <* Century so-called religion.
Out positive, conclusive cosmogonies,
§; ' an .^"7 rie( l sciences ;—none did he spare.
Ho Jn? • ? champion—verities’ guardian;
gloried exalting the good and the true!
Sydney.
S.A.B.
“SO NEAR AND YET SO FAR!”


Johns™
SEWING MACHIN
HAYMARKET
gINGEE’S SEWING
JOHNSTON’S [
HAYMARKE
gINGER’S SEWING
T
S
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s
JOHNSTO
HE LIGHT RUNNING
2s 6d per week, a
JOHNSTON’S. HAYMi
INGEE’S SEWING
2s 6d per week, ai
JOHNSTON'S 0
HAYMARKET
A CARD.
D
R. STANICH, the eminen
AUEIST, is now on a p:
Queensland. For furthe
Queensland papers.
P.
E. LAI
Wholesale and Eel
PRODUCE MEE(
Comer
GEOEGE AND 6IPPS I
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STOEE
48 George-street West (late Par
And
Darlinghnrst Eoad, near Wi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed anc
P. E. LARK
Wholesale and Eetail Wine and
778 and 780 GEOEGE STEI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE OEDEES payable at Hayi
iy|~ u E PH Y A J
IMPOETEES O
GLASS (all sizes cut Whi-
te order) Turj
Plate Eaw
Sheet Bras
Stained Ken:
Ornamental Colo
Cathedral (
Hammered (flat and t
rolled) Van
Paperhangers' Car
(three qualities
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver L
Wood-preserving O
Sesin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
wry fd paint, eeady foe t
EEQUIEED.
AH orders promptly executed by Ei
Suburbs.
THE BEITISH PLATE AND
WAEEHOUSE
29 and 31 GEOEGE STEI
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Wat oh Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
ViAoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. —Adv.
HEA T E E
Lessee M
Acting Manager M
WILLIAMSON’S OPEEA (
THUESDAY and FEIDAY,
last nights of
THE "PIEATES OF PENZAI
SATUEDAY, MAI
FAEEWELL WEEK of WILLL
COMPANY, when will be rev
NIGHTS ONLY, the eve
H.M.S. PINAPOI
with a EEMAEKABLE CAST OP C
particulars of which will shortly be
AETHUE GA
ATHLET
QUEEN’S BIETHDAY,
LITHGOW HANDICAP, 150 ;
comers. —Ist prize £2O, 2nd £5, 3rd .
ONE-MILE FLAT EACE.—lst p
HUEDLB EACE, 150 yards.—lsl
MINERS’ HANDICAP, 130 yai
2nd £l.
SPECIAL HANDICAP, 125 ya
2nd £l.
HIGH JUMP.—Prize £l.
HOP, STEP, and JUMP.—Prize
TUG OP WAE.—Prize £l.
Entrance for Lithgow Handicap
7a. 6d. Entrances for other races, 5
for the Lithgow Handicap to close
Handicans to appear in the Tc
Grafton for obtaining a signature to a pro. note by false
pretences. Accused was convicted, and sentenced to 12
months in Darliuehur-t At a preliminary trial of the
electric light in Swanston-street, Melbourne, gas lights
were made to appear as dirty yellow flames Gympie
now has 56 registered mining companies with an aggre-
gate nominal capital of £711,960 The “diseased
stock agent,” the clever spy in the Kelly business, has
received an appointment in the detective force Stn-
sational revelations connected with the Melbourne
Custom House are spoken of as being ripe for publica-
tion In the libel action. La Reman v. the Riverine
Grazier, tried at Deniliquin, a verdict was given for
defendant At Hobart, recently, two boatmen who had
been partners for fifty years, died within a few weeks of
one another. Their combined ages would cover a cen-
tury and a half Gorrie, who through the negligence
of a clerk in the Crown Law Office, was detained in
gaol at Mudgee six or seven weeks after the crown had
decided to file no bill against him, has taken legal
advice and been informed that he has no redress
George Jeffrey, 23, was killed on Monday week by a
blast at the Hercules and Energetic Co.’s claim, Sand-
hurst. The unfortunate young fellow was cleaning out
a charge which had missed fire instead of making a new
bore, according to regulations The other day, at
lunch hour, a man stole the brief bag of Mr. Quinlan,
barrister, from Melbourne County Court; and tried to
pawn its contents. However, the pawnbroker declined
to trade, and the fellow made off A company, capital
£lO,OOO, in £lO shares, is being floated to work an acre
of ground north of the Golden Pile and Phoenix,
Gym pie...... There are now about 400 whites and 200
Chinese in and near Cairns. On the Barron between 40
and 50 Kanakas are employed cedar-getting At
Shoalhaven the other day, an old man named Jean
Hoste was drowned while getting into a boat, and an
elderly man named Charles Robinson was thrown from
his horse and killed More trouble in connection
with the Day Dawn claim. Charters Towers. Injunc-
tions have been granted on the dividends of Thomas
Christian and John Romberg, who are shortly to figure
in the Warden’s Court in cross actions A detective
is stationed in the Civil Service refreshment room, Mel-
bourne, to note the drinking propensities of the clerks.
Laughing-jackasses are being introduced into India
from Victoria. They will be of great value in destroying
venomous reptiles Hugh Birch, who drove the pilot
engine to Glenrowan on the night of the Kelly capture,
has died from the effects of a recent fall from his engine.
Wild Harry, a harmless and respectable man, has
been murdered by the blacks at Wandedda, on the
Herbert A specimen containing 50oz. gold has been
found at Revolver Point, Maytown, Palmer, Q
The Melbourne public incline to the belief that Cumow
and Bracken should get most of the Kelly reward
At latest dates gold was being deposited at the rate of
1000 oz. per week with the escort inspector, Maytown,
Palmer River. The crushing of the “ Ida ” partially
accounts for the increase The Emerald blacks have
been fighting The Queensland Agriculturist, a
good little weekly, published at Toowoomba, is defunct.
There is an alleged state of immorality amongst
the inmates of the Castlemaine Benevolent Asylum, a
female of weak intellect being enceinte The widow of
Aaron Sherritt, murdered by the Kellys, is only 16
years old The Melbourne Bulletin is in the market.
£3OOO is the price asked. Melbourne Punch has
changed its proprietor and editor, and has net improved
in consequence John Jackson, 31, native of England,
received at Darlinghurst from Mudgee, under a twelve
months’ sentence, died on the 27th nit House at
Haymarket, Sydney, destroyed by fire. Insured for
£6OO. A woman recently confined was rescued with
her infant only after great difficulty Further strange
disclosures expected in the Lament will case at Mel-
bourne Census-divulging promptly punished at
Melbourne Malcolm Hutton, 76, found dead at
Pyrmont. He had been suffering from cancer in the
neck Peter Mabel suicided by hanging at Mosquito
Creek, Maryborough, Vic. Cause, business reverses.
A new and apparently rich field has been discovered
at Bridge Creek, 22 miles north of Yam Creek, Northern
Territory The steamer Taupo, which was wrecked at
Tauranga two years ago, was got off, but sank at sea
while going to Auckland The Stanthorpe railway
has been opened Miners returned from Mount
Poole give a fearful account of the diggings, which
they say are not a patch on Temora, and have no water
at all The Peterborough, with 395 immigrants, left
London 22th April, for Sydney.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
The Sultan and Greece have settled,
Dillon arrested for seditions language.
Small-pox alarmingly prevalent in London.
The John Elder sailed for Australia on April 30.
The Queen has -visited the tomb of Beaconsfield.
Sir Hercules Robinson has arranged peace with
the Basutos.
No dividend was declared at the Orient Co.’s
annual meeting.
The life of the new Czar of Russia threatened
by the Nihilists.
Sir Stafford Northcote is likely to be the new
Conservative leader.
The Bey of Tunis, terrified by the French, has
surrendered to them.
Gladstone’s proposed remissions of duty on silver
plate have been abandoned.
French ironclads bombarded and destroyed
Tabarca, a town north of Tunis.
Lord Elcho has moved the rejection of the Irish
Land Bill. He has the Conservative support.
The extreme Radicals have commenced an agi-
tation against the proposed national monument to
Beaconsfield.
The Tory members have resolved not to defeat
the Irish Land Bill on its second reading, but to amend
it in committee.
Dillon, M.P., delivered a fierce speech in the
Commons. He said that if evictions continue in Ire-
land, resistance is inevitable.
Labouehere has introduced a “ Bradlaugh Ena-
bling Bill.” Meanwhile "Iconoclast” remains quies-
cent outside the bar of the House.
Another artillery accident on board the German
man of war, Manus, at 'Wilhelmshaven, a shell burst,
and either killing or wounding 26 persons.
The Czar has congratulated and testimonialised
Gortschakolf and the St. Petersburg police on their
action in “bringing to justice” those who had killed
his father.
The remains of the Earl of Beaconsfield were
interred beside those of the late Countess at Hughenden
parish church. The vicar conducted the service. The
Prince of Wales, the Duke of Connaught, and Prince
Leopold were present, and each placed a handsome
wreath upon the vault. Mr. Gladstone did not attend,
but a large number of members of both Houses, includ-
ing the Marquis of Salisbury, and the Marquis of Har-
rington, were present.
Brushgrove, the pick of Pennant Hills, is for
sale on Saturday.
It is feared that the gallant Mr. Hugh Holt,
who has been the means of saving from drowning over
30 persons, was amongst the victims of the Tararna
disaster. He had obtained a month’s leave of absence
from duty as Statioumaster at Waratah for the purpose
of visiting N.Z.
The Captain of the steamer India (nee Ferret),
which that clever individual Henderson chartered for
the Mediterranean, and “ ran away with ” to Mel-
bourne, has been remanded on a charge of having forged
nautical documents. Henderson is in custody. Bills
and other securities (believed to be genuine) to a large
amount were found at his hotel. Some of the crew
have made a clean breast of the whole affair.
LATE THEATRICAL.
A minstrel combination, with Billy Sweatnam
at its head, and including William Horace Bent, Beau-
mont Read, Shanahan, and others, is about to start
northwards.
The newly - formed Sydney Literary and
Dramatic Club give a performance in about three
weeks’ time, when “ London Assurance ” will be put on
the boards. We are glad to learn that the club is so
lucky as to command the services of at least one lady
amateur of ability.
Prom our late files, we see that Miss Teresa
Horan and her clever sister, Eugenie, scored a great
success in “ Pinafare,” during the temporary indisposi-
tion of Miss Edith Pender, the original Buttercup of
South’s Company. Miss Teresa enacted Miss Pender’s
part with great Sian, and Miss Eugenie played Josephine
in a manner which completely "knocked” the Bathurst
people. We are always glad to send young and deserv-
ing people along; and we trust, in the language of Rip,
that they “ may live long and prosper.”
A complimentary concert tendered to Mr. Fair-
fax Smyth (by whom is not stated) took place at Dar-
linghnrst Hall on Monday evening last. The attendance
was small. Mrs. Riley, the well-known pleasing ballad
singer, rendered a song written by the beneficiare,
entitled “ Reminiscences,” with great sweetness and
charming expression. The air is melodious and pathe-
tic, the music and words are suitably wedded, and
a marked effect is produced by a judicious change of
time and key in the progress of the song. It is admir-
ably fitted to Mrs. Riley’s voice, and will doubtless be
made popular by her at future concerts. Mr. Fitz-
patrick was in splendid voice, and was encored for
“The heart bowed down,” and Miss Newcombe’s num-
bers were very acceptable. Mr. Fred. Leston con-
vulsed the audience by his drolleries. Herr Hugo Alpen
accompanied.
LATE SPORTING.
Gates for Maitland races brought <£100; booths,
£47.
R. T. Reid, of Adelaide, owner of the horse
Intrepid, is suing the Leader for libel.
The Victorian Bowling Team was defeated by
the King’s School Club, on Monday, by 20 points.
The Windsor Grammar School Amateur Athletic
Club meeting will take place next Saturday.
The general settling at Tattersall’s over the late
meeting of the Sydney Turf Club passed off satis-
factorily.
The monthly prize shooting of the Torpedo
Rifle Club was held on Saturday, Sergeant Board taking
first prize. Private Clay second, and Private Madison
third.
The annual meeting of the Southern Rugby
Football Union was held on Monday evening last. The
balance at credit is £26 10s. lOd. The following office-
bearers were appointed : —President, Mr. J. J. Calvert;
vice-presidents, Messrs. E. A. Arnold, W. R. F. Burkitt,
E. J. Raper, and W. C. B. Tiley; hon. secretary, Mr.
W. H. Fletcher; auditors, Messrs. Taylor and Rotton.
S. A. J. C. Autumn Meeting — first day. Turf
Stakes: Lothair 1, Cock of the Walk 2, Rothschild 3;
time, 2m. 13sec. South Australian Stakes : Israelite 1,
Topaz 2, Cyclone 3; time, Im. 32sec. Hurdle Race:
Beppo 1, Carlos 2, Acrobat 3; time. sm. 24sec. Selling
Plate : Mountaineer 1, Pope 2, Harkaway 3; won easily.
Flying Handicap: GambaUo 1, Silver Thread 2, Alethe
3; nineteen started.
A race for trial fours in string-test gigs came
off on Monday afternoon between two crews from the
North Shore Club, as follows :—Messrs. Phillips, A. H.
Bligh, W. German, and W. G. Tucker (stroke) and
Messsrs. J. P. Brindley, S. G. Robey, H. Phillips, and
H. A. Fitzpatrick (stroke). The contest was a neck-
ani-neck one until near the finish, when Tucker’s crew
forged ahead, and won by about three-quarters of a
length, after a most exciting spin.
CRICKET.
The Denman C.C. played a match at Denman,
against the Kynga C.C., on Saturday, 23rd ult., which
resulted in an easy victory for the Denmans by 6
wickets. Hawkins captained the Denmans, and Cox
the Kynga team. The two Oxfords and Sales displayed
good play for the Denmans, and Cox and Devine for the
Kyugns were good assistants Five Seals played with
the Petersham Club in the match on Saturday week
against the Newtown Club. The match was won by
Petersham by 38 runs A cricket match was played
in Wagga on Saturday last between an eleven of
that town and a similar number from Urana, which
resulted in a victory for the Wagga team. The
Urana team was not a good representative one, some of
the best men being unable to go to Wagga A match
was played on Easter Monday at Scone, between the
Scone and Belltrees Clubs, resulting in a victory for
the local men Tamworth cricketers are a little sore.
Eleven “boys” from the Cockburn came to the town
on Saturday week last, and gave the town eleven a
second drubbing A return match was played on
Moore Park last Saturday between the Pioneer and
Oxford Clubs. The match eventuated in an easy victory
for the former by 20 runs. Scores : P.C C., 64, 0.C.C.,
44. For the Pioneers, the batting of D. Carmody, 23
(not out), was excellent. The bowling of F. Grogan
and W. Keogh was very good for the Pioneers. Mayhew
and Stewart bowled well for the Oxford Club Under-
wood v. Fitzroy (return match) at Moore Park last
Saturday, resulted in a win for the former by 29 rnns.
Scores: U C.C. 69, P.C.C. 40. The batting of H. and
J. Young for the Underwoods was very good, the
former making 33, and the latter 13, by good cricket.
The bowling of Payne for the losers was excellent
A return match was played on Moore Park between the
Perseverance C. C. and the Alpha C. C. The result was
a draw greatly in favour of the P.C.C. Scores: P.C.C.,
eight wickets for 76; A.C.C., 89. The hatting of Chip-
pindale (30) and Hinchy (18 not out) for P.C.C., and
Jacobs for the A.C.C. was effective F. Walters, for
Carlton, against Sandridge, on Saturday week, scored
151 not out. Britannia C.C. v. Eedfem Albion C.C.,
at Moore Park, on Saturday last. Former won by 3
w ickets and 5 runs. Scores : Albions, 51; Britannias,
7 wickets for 56 A correspondent writes to say that
D. Ogilvy, the Warwick bowler, who took five wickets
for seven rnns in a recent match with the Ironclads,
had moonlight to help him on his way of terror In a
one-innings match played at Morpeth, last Saturday,
between a combined local team and the Sydney
Undaunteds, victory declared in favour of the former by
41 runs Charlie Bannerman has made double figures
nearly every innings this season for the Carltons
Independent C.C. v. Young Oxford C.C. at Moore
Park on Saturday. When the Independents had finished
their innings, and 9 wickets of the Young Oxfords had
fallen, the last man could not be found. The Y.O.C.C.
wanted to send someone else in, but the Independents
objected, and after waiting until time was called
(quarter-of-an-honr), drew the stomps Alexandria
C C. v. Ivanhoe C.C., at Double Bay on Saturday.
Former won easily by 17 runs.
The Stockwhip.
It will be seen that in this day’s issue we take a
new departure, by publishing a aeries of short
articles, intended to be sharp, under the above
heading. It was originally our intention to head
them “ The Boomerang,” but when it occurred to
us that the boomerang was a weapon which some-
times recoiled upon its thrower, we abandoned the
idea, and called the new column “ The Stockwhip ”
—an instrument with which, as every colonist
knows, the expert may either take the eye out of
a mosquito or a steak out of a bullock. However,
it will be seen that we do not either strain at
gnats or lacerate cattle.
The Riverstone Estate, one of the richest and
healthiest spots in the metropolitan district, is an-
nounced for sale to-day (Saturday), by Messrs. Batt,
Eodd, and Purves. v
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Murray has been well received by his con-
stituents at Inverell.
In the Victorian Upper House, the Reform Bill
has been read a second time, and agreed to.
Steps are being taken to prevent the threatened
coalition of “the two comers” in the Melbourne
Assembly.
The only thing that will save this country will
be the formation of an “ Anti-Teetotal and Corporation
Swindle Association.”
As soon as the Victorian Parliament meets, a
comer member will move for a commission of enquiry
into the working of the Education Act.
Patterson, the Victorian Minister of Railways,
has got into very bad repute among the Liberals. Strong
pressure is being brought to bear on Berry in this
matter, the chief workers-up being Longmore and
Woods.
Sir Henry Parkes and Mr. Graham Berry are
reported to have decided on simultaneous action with
respect to the Chinese. The Adelaide Chamber of
Commerce urges prompt action in the same direction
on the part of the S.A. Government.
Mr. Berry’s position in Victoria appears to have
of late been greatly weakened by the judicious concilia-
tory line of policy adopted by Mr. Murray Smith. The
Reform question settled, the leader of the Opposition
will change places with Mr. Berry.
The Hon. Samuel Deane Gordon, M.L.C.
Few understand the principle of eclecticism that
underlies our selection of portraits for weekly
illustration and comment. From the first, we
determined that every representative man in the
colony should be enshrined in our biographical
memorials, in order that young Australia might
learn, through the energy and mental acumen of
the men who built her early political and mercan-
tile fortunes, what they are bound to do in order
to add to the beauty and strength of that moral
edifice, raising it to grander proportions and
illuminating it with the honour that attaches to
the typical British colonist. The serene, though
somewhat serious face we present to-day is that
of a man who, like Wolsey, has trod many roads
leading to honour, but, unlike Wolsey, never tried
to push himself to the front. His mercantile
career does not belong to the public, except so far
as it is the outcome of an honest and honorable
life devoted to business pursuits. If time and
space served, we could give indicia of those
aptitudes by which he not only succeeded
in “ the battle of life,” but attracted
the attention of the political sachems , who
wanted men of honour, experience, and
intelligence to take part in the proceedings
of the Legislature. Although Mr. Gordon
could have become a foremost man in the popular
arena, it suited him to take —under the strong
pressure of honorable old friends —a quiet seat in
the Legislative Council. How well he satisfied the
greatest parliamentary expert that ever lived in
Australia —the late Sir Edward Deas-Thomson—
we remember that honorable gentleman once saying
—“ I wish we had six Gordons in the Council; If
we had, Wentworth’s constitution and mine would
be safe.” This was praise, indeed! Mr. Gordon
was called to the Legislative Council 2nd Septem-
ber, 1861, and has since taken a practical part in
the legislation of the country. He speaks seldom,
being a wise man, but whatever he says, when he
does deliver himself, is worthy of attention. He
is still hale and hearty—a veritable “ good father
William” —and we trust he will yet come more
prominently forward, and give his life experience
of the working of our fiscal policy. In publishing
his portrait, we have not had any opportunity of
examining the details of the honorable gentle-
man’s political career. These particulars we
shall record hereafter.
The Civil Service Banking Institution is a pro-
nounced success.
Government say they don’t feel justified in
undertaking to widen Oxford-street.
The plan of Brushgrove, for sale to-day (Satur-
day) is the largest yet exhibited in Sydney. It was
prepared at Mr. Parrott’s office, Pitt-street.
From the Progress Committee, Cobar, we on
Monday received the following telegram : —“ Cohn has
started special coach from Cobar to Telegraph Office
six times daily for convenience of business people.”
One thing is certain about the trams in this city.
Every day they demonstrate their utter incapacity to
suit the present or future passenger requirements of
Sydney. And they bring to the minds of the people of
this city the wretched scheming and bungling that have
deprived them for years of proper railway communica-
tion.


SINGER'S SEWING
THE
RINGER MANUFACTUI
Have opened a De
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DA
HABBOUB ST]
SINGER’S SEWINC
lllustrated Price List se
SINGER’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOL
IN GEE’S SEWING
Write for address of n
GINGER’S, THE BEST
! Have received 160 First
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for
SINGER’S, BEST FOR
SINGEB’S MEDIUM MAC
GINGER’S SEWING
'U Easy Terms, 2a. 6d.
SINGER S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 ]
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No additioi
SINGER’S, THE BEST FO
See the New No. 4 Vibratin
SINGER’S SEWING
HAND OB TBEA
SINGER’S. The BEST. T 1
MACHINE—Light to Werk
SINGER’S SEW I N (
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s.
SINGER’S, THE BEST
LEABN. New Improvemen
GINGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to al
SINGER’S THE BEST i
Sew finest muslins and 1
SINGER’S SEWIN(
Write for Illustrated Erie
GINGER’S THE BEST and
Will last a lifetime in <
SINGER’S SEWING
ADDBESS: 1
SINGER MANUPACTTJR
No. IDABLING STOBES, Hi
SEWIN(
J. w. JOHNSTON
746 George-street. Hay ms
Aave been appointed agents f
machines.
Call and see them—Moutl
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly
10 per cent discount for ci
SINGEE’S SEWING HI
SINGER’S SEWING MAGI
and CO. only recommem
EMEMBER, THERE IS
GEE MACHINE. See t
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S MACHINES.—
applies to the Genuine Ma
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
INGEE’S MACHINES.—
Cast iron imitations. Or
sold at Turner and Co.'s.
s
INGER’S SEWING MACi
ments with the Singer
INGEE’S SEWING Mi
cent, discount for cash, or on
SIDNEY.— From TURNE
GEOBGE STBEET. opposi
GINGER’S SEWING MACE
'O but ISO PIEST PI
■V-
T
HE NE
AWAEDED tl
foi
SYDNEY
THE DAVI{
ABOVE THE
highly estimai
parts of the col
B. 0
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TH
The Universal Sewi
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the Ne
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call an
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Dep6t,
68 KING STREET, S
NEXT TO ’BUS OPFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL
brass founders and :
COPPERSMITHS, 6ASFITTERS, AND GEI
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBING WOEK IN ALL ITS BEANCHES. BEASS WO
IMPOETEES OF
DIVING GEAR, CHANDI
MANUFACTUEEES OF
JJ B P 0 T • IN
NO, 1 DARLING S
HARBOUR STR;
ILLUSTRATED PRICE ]
HP HE WONDERFUL
JL SEWING MACHINES, wi
tacking 1 (or basting), without the
without any pulling or pushing ol
vary fine double seams or fells; w:
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, a
embroider curtains or antimaeassi
all household and factory sewing.
| of work will be shown at our offic<
trades can be supplied. They are
in running, strong, handsome, i
machine may be had on trial, EN
CHARGE. Instruction at YOl
free. Every WERTHEIM Mach
KEPT IN REPAIR and work
YEARS from the date of purchas
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMEN
[ Any machine delivered at youi
and inspection FREE OF CHAR(
samples by post. Country ag
liberal terms. BEALE and (
street, near Market-street, and
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcas
Bathurst. No matter in what pa
live, we will supply you wil
MACHINE upon TIME PAYI
INTEREST.
T
HE A U S T
“HOME"SHUT
AMERICAN LOCKS
SEWING MAC
— moss:
G. C H U E C
147 rOEZ STI
Opposite the Marl
IMPOETEE AND MANUF.
Coffee, Peppers, Spi
CLEVELAND MILLS, SU
CHEAPEST HOUSE I
for Liverpool and Black Hoi
Choicest Sage and Majoram on ]
680,000 AMEEICAN SI
Jnst arrived, all r
Sole agent for Messrs. OTTT. t
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sa
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 1
Canterbury.
JJ AYE YOU
TO
R. MORPH
233 Pitt Str
JjIALLON’S PRIZE A]
GALLON’S in asking pu’
WINES, and to the awards gain
intimate that he holds very large si
and the public may rely upon gett
and in almost any quantity.
Central Dbpo
91 PITT STREET, S
Vineyard :
mueeay eivee valley.
NEW SOUTH W.
These Wines were awarded first-
following Exhibitions i
London International
Paris
Vienna
Philadelphia „ ...
Also at the various Intercolonial
toria New South Wales, Qceer
CLASS, and 2 SECOND ChA
INTEENATIONAL EXHIBT
_ . , WHITE.
Eeisling Aucarot I Shi:
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Oar
Tokay | guj
Champagne, Medium Dry. C
martin
AUSTRALIAN WINE N
AND BEEE EOT'
105 PITT STEE.
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN


PAIR
SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
Single-furrow Ploughs. We have the largest assortment o
requirements of every district. Farmers, write us for information, v
KAN SOU
BX9CBE
HORNBY’S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
EEOWARD'S New Pattern Ploughs, just brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
and 3. Th
We invite
infoi
HARROWS—ZL
We recommend BOWM!
have other makes, some of w
Howard's -| Noi ,
VWidth 1
1 Weight!
Miscellaneoni
£1 LIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTS
EASTERN AND CO
MERCHANTS
Receive regular consignmen
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualiti
Do. Indian Prize Mei
CHUTNIES—Indian Pri
PRESERYES—Indian I
COFFEE —Plantation Ni
Do. „ P<
Do. „ N
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and I
SAGO
PEPPER—White and B3
OFFICES :—V9 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
T O H N D
EMPOETEE Oi
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswi
Gasfittings. Globes, Electric ]
Butchers’ Brine Pi
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEET,
PITT ST
BEAUTIFUL
o R ~
ALLWOOL
TdTWEED
Miscellaneo
B
EISCOE, DEYSD
397 George St
76. 78, 145, 147 Yor
33 Pitt Stri
IEONMON GEES, IEONME
IMPOETEE
ite attention to their exten
ch besides being the largest r
ed; and comprises all the lab
Engines Engineers’ Material
Agricultural Implements, T1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Ceach-builders' Material, 1
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lam
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron
Builders’ Ironmongery, Char
Brass Foundry, Locks, H
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, C
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled J
And
GENEEAL IEONM
W
ILL'JOX
ASD
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £410s
S. HEBBLE1
416 GEORGE ST1
MEEICAN MACHI]
H. P. GEEGOEY
No. 11, PITT-STI
Importers of all Desci
M A C H I I
Have for Sale
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Special
Macldnery—Sydney Exhibits
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pm
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw
tucks packing round and squa
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Fc
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oi
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars ai
street s
TAILOR
ADV
ANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TAN Q Y E STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
8HEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IEEIGATIN
Engines and Boilers of all sis
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows,' Fo
IN STOCK. '
EYES
PERFECT
F U R ,1
Non-poisonotts! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest An
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for hous<
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolrumah, 1
for my throat I could not desire anything more effecth
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sy-
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. New toi
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney :—My child had sore eyes for 2$
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laureuce,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruii
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sy
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, o P]
PRACTICAL EAIRCU
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR - WORKER, STAGE A
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings c
Note the address — Oxford-street, oppc
CD
09
O*
PRIZE
Cocoa
EC
Against the world
E. Haeper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Tn Piest Prizes
mm
These goods i
fresh, wholeson
and genuine. T
Exhibition Judg
Report says
