

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.—No. 77.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JULY 16, 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, JULY 16, 1881.
The Administration of Justice.
The Legislative Assembly will be called upon to
deal with a motion brought forward by a private
member, to the effect that a substantial increase
should be made in the salaries at present paid to
the Chief Justice and to Puisne Justices. There
are limits to every proposition, of course, but
there could scarcely be found one more entitled to
elastic interpretation than that the administra-
tion of Justice cannot be too highly paid for. On
the Bench of the highest Court, the interests of
society require the very best men whose services
can be procured. The State needs to be in a
position to go into the open market and offer such
terms as shall be sufficient inducement for the
men of most commanding ability, highest charac-
ter, and largest practice, to give their time to the
judicial functions. It would be a tolerably prac-
tical maxim to lay down that the salaries provided
for Supreme Court Judges should bear an appre-
ciable proportion in relation to the maximum
incomes which could be earned by the leaders of
the Bar. It should not be requisite that the
actual amount should exceed every possible income.
There are other compensations. The honour of
the position must reckon for something; the
certainty of a fixed income is worth considering j
and the number of Judges to perform the work
should be so regulated that justice could be done
expeditiously, and yet deliberately. In other
words, the Supreme Court Judges should
not be worked at high pressure. They
should have otium as well as dignitas. To each
case brought before them they should be able to
bring a mind unfatigued. Were these conditions
duly observed, the future of our Supreme Court
Bench would be assured. We pay our Judges too
meanly at present, and work them too hard. The
senior J udges cannot live for ever. Successors
for them will have to be found. It will never do
to have superior men at the Bar, pleading before
inferior men on the Bench. Parliament can afford
to be liberal in the matter. Hundreds of thousands
of pounds have been thrown to a rotten Corpora-
tion to refill its leaky bags, while the leaks con-
tinue unrepaired. Thousands are flung here and
there. Our finances are so buoyant that the
Premier has no compunction in spending thou-
sands upon the fittings of his office, hundreds
upon his official bed, and hundreds more on works
of art. Art is a good thing, and highly beneficial,
because emollit mores —it softens the manners —of
a rough-and-ready community. But Justice stands
above every other consideration. In respect to
that, especially, when circumstances make liber-
ality possible, expense should be no object. The
lower Courts also require attention, and would be
benefitted by a wise liberality. Mr. Tbickktt has
given notice of a resolution which, if carried, should
effect a reform urgently required. He proposes,
in substance, to abolish the Great Unpaid, so far
as thjt capital and its suburbs are concerned, and
to place the administration of justice in the petty
Courts exclusively in the hands of stipendiary
magistrates. We presume that the Government
measure for regulating the Licensing system will
put a stop to the disgraceful scenes in connection
with the public-house business which have periodi-
cally converted the Bench at the Police Courts
into arenas for the contention between the magis-
terial retainers of brewers and public-house
owners, and the bigots of the teetotal platform.
But this will not purify the Courts enough. It is
a matter of common knowledge that the system
judgment by Justices of the Peace is rotten
through and through. If an Orangeman who
knows the world has a case to be tried, he rallies
up all the Orangemen who hold the commission of
jj) e Peace, to go upon the Bench and do justice.
If a Roman Catholic has a case, he runs round
and touts for his co-religionists to roll up. There
are cliques and rings innumerable, whose members
know sympathetic magistrates who are not above
taking a hint when their presence on the Bench
would “prevent a great injustice from being done.”
That is the euphemism ordinarily employed, we
believe. Organizations of all kinds, political and
religious, frequently secure a roll up of their
magisterial adherents to hear causes at the Police
Courts. The clerks of Petty Sessions could, if
they dare risk their billets, make some startling
disclosures in regard to corruption and perversion
°t justice. But not even a Royal Commission
would get at the facts. There are too many and
too powerful men in the swim, and politicians
have long memories. Mr. Trickett’s plan is the
°hly way out of the mess, and will have the
vehement opposition of every member of the
Assembly interested in perpetuating the existing
abuse. There are some honest magistrates, but
aS the City Police Court Bench is as corrupt
as the Corporation, no more, and no less.
Sir A. H. Palmer, K.C.M.G., Colonial
Secretary of Queensland.
A bluff, downright man. Like the Zimri of
Dryden’s Absolom and Achitophel, “ stiff in
opinions ; ” but not like Zimri, “ always in the
wrong.” A clear-headed, peremptory man.
Gifted with an aptitude of getting at the kernel
of a thing, and perhaps a trifle too defiantly care-
less how he shreds off the husk. Sir Arthur
Palmer is the type of a John Bull, but, by some
anomaly of chance, he is an Irishman. Queensland
owes to him many trusty services. Few men
have a more decided talent for saying “ No,” and
sticking to it. Arthur Palmer entered political
life in Queensland after a successful career as a
squatter. When he sought election for the Legis-
lative Assembly, his circumstances were already
as independent as his character. The colony, on
the other hand, was 11 dead-broke.” There was
no money in the Treasury ; the very cheques of
the Colonial Treasurer were dishonoured by the
Government Bank. A commercial and industrial
crisis of extraordinary severity had smitten
the entire community as with paralysis. There
was no money : there was no credit. The
Bank of Queensland had smashed. Business
houses were toppling over like nine-pins. Half
the residences in the capital were untenanted.
Such was the condition of affairs when Mr.
Palmer, after a twelve months’ experience in the
House, joined the Ministry of Mr. R. R. Ramsay
(afterwards Sir Robert R. Ramsay, Bart.), a
respectable, unimportant man, such as the Scotch
call “ a fushionless body.” Mr. Palmer’s strong,
determined character dominated his chief, and
powerfully moulded the policy of the Ministry.
Economies in administration were vigorously
initiated, and ruthlessly persevered with. The
Civil Service was pruned to the quick. There was
a whole year of Black Wednesdays. The stem
law of necessity had an unflinching administrator.
When the Mackenzie Administration was dis-
placed by Mr. (now Chief Justice) Lilley, the
winter of Queensland’s discontent had begun to
relax its asperity. Mr. Palmer quitted office pro-
digiously unpopular, and—highly esteemed. He
had handled the patient like a political Abernethy,
but he had effected a cure. When, therefore, the
amiable and accommodating system of Mr. Lilley
had been carried further than met with the ap-
proval of the colonists, and a change again oc-
curred—due in part to intrigues between
certain of Mr. Lilley’s own colleagues
and an Adullamite party—the conspirators
proving impotent to profit by the crisis
they had planned, Mr. Palmer stepped natur-
ally to the front, and, forming a Ministry, re-
sumed, with some modifications suited to the
improved condition of the country, his previous
system He had first, however, to square up his
reckoning with the Assembly. When the Lilley
Administration had been ousted, there had been
no intention that Mr. Palmer’s party should profit
by the event. He found himself, consequently, in
a minority ; and obtaining a dissolution, had the
mortification to find himself with a majority,
indeed, but a majority of one ! It is no part of
Sir Arthur’s character to be dismayed by difficul-
ties. He accepted the situation, and faced the
Opposition with unflinching courage. Such a
position could not, however, be long maintainable.
The Acting-Governor, the late Sir Maurice O’Con-
nell, was wrought upon either by exterior influences
or by his own predilections for the party in power,
to grant, most unconstitutionally, a second dis-
solution. The result, however, in part, justified
Sir Maurice. Mr. Palmer came back from the
country with a working majority. His favourite
maxim, that the country needed administration,
not legislation, still governed his course in the
main ; but as signs of progression forced them-
selves upon notice, and the determination of the
colonists to push on with public works became
apparent, the Government released the stringency
of their leading principle, and in a measured,
deliberate, way, adopted progressive measures.
When, however, they were at length, in 1874,
ejected from office, they left a surplus of a quarter
of a million in the Treasury—indisputably the
fruits of a resolute resistance to solicitations for
multiplication of “ billets” and demands for un-
profitable expense. As a squatter, Mr. Palmer
has always been viewed with some coldness by the
people of the towns. But the general straight-
forwardness of the man, and the confidence felt
even by political opponents in his word when once
pledged, wen for him the remarkable distinction
of being returned for the city of Brisbane, the
stronghold of Queensland Liberalism. In the
same city it has been his fortune also to be hooted
during an ebullition of dissatisfaction. Although
a squatter, Sir Arthur has always resented being
regarded as other than a Liberal. Indeed, his ex-
treme Merino followers followed his lead much
as the English Tories followed the lead of
DTsraeli, with grumbling at the concessions made
to popular c ideas, and with ever-growing appre-
hension as to what further lengths their chief
might carry his Liberalism to. The leading char-
acteristic of Sir Arthur Palmer has always been
an impatience of humbug. Popular humbug he
has always scorned ; and although respected for
his bluff integrity, he has at no time been that
rather contemptible being, a popular idol. The
brusqueness of Sir Arthur’s deportment and ad-
dress has somewhat softened of late years, and
more people begin to understand the sterling
qualities and really feeling heart which that
brusqueness concealed from the unobservant. It
is probable that nothing could incense the peppery
knight more than to be accused of being a man of
feeling. But the fact remains unaltered. Sir
Arthur never coveted any man’s favour, never
feared any man’s frown, and when Her Majesty
the Queen acted upon the advice to confer upon
him the honour of knighthood, among the latest
batch of distinguished men in the colonies, she
conferred the dignity upon a man who would have
done honour to the knighthood of any period—a
chevalier sans peur et sans reproche.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Slobber.
In Melbourne, there was commenced, the other day, a
weekly journal, The Federal Australian, which
started with enormous pretensions. It was to show
Australians how the thing could be done. It was
to triumph over all existing weeklies as C&sar did
over Pom pet, and to sweep the colonies from end to
end. It was to be brilliant, solid, and, above all,
elevated. It was to combine the attractiveness of the
“Society journal” with the dignity and grace of—
spread-eagleism. Especially it was to represent the
culture of the age. And this is how it does it. This is
how it handles, with aesthetic splutter, the task of
delineating, with aerial lightness and delicate fancy-
flights, the graces of young girls at a ball“ They
[the Princes] participated in most of the dances, and
amongst the lucky girls who received commands during
the evening, we noticed Miss , Miss , Miss (Co-
lonel) , Miss , Miss , Miss , and others.
Captain Le Patourel was kept quite busy in fact
delivering commands. Prince George appeared not
to stint himself in the enjoyment of the evening.”
Is this the tone of the Great Bepublic P or of
a lackey-in-waiting ? Is it the (language of
Jenktns, or of a stud-groom ? Again, let us grovel
together:—“ We are sure that the young Princes must
have been very favourably impressed with Melbourne
society on that evening, for there was a wealth of re-
finement and beauty present." There is something
suggestive of a butcher’s apprentice in the next speci-
men. The writer refers to a young lady as if she were
mutton :—“ We saw some extremely pretty girls there,
and one in particular, whose beautiful neck and
shoulders, and semi-Grecian face, made her a compeer
of any girl in the room. We are, at the same time, of
opinion that this girl’s style of beauty shows to great
advantage in the ball-room, as it is of a marble white-
ness.” How condescendingly “we” refer to “ this
girl 1" Bat besides grovel and impertinence, there is
slobber. Quarts of it. " Of Melbourne belles there was a
goodly number, and amongst the precious jewels which
studded the coronet that’ crowned the royal party, wo
saw shine forth with unusual brilliancy, which shed a
lustre upon less/sestheticol surroundings, the faces of
the Misses , Miss , Miss , Miss , Miss
, and others. We missed, however, a bunch of
roses—three of the most beautiful buds that society’s
flower-garden can furnish.” Of course we decline to
insult any of the young ladies mentioned by republish-
ing their names in connection with this sort of
eifusion. The married ladies are next assaulted with
the [esthetic poster-brush. “We” does not remember
to have seen a greater number assembled on
one floor. Where has he seen a greater
number assembled, then? On one ceiling? Then
“we" laments lack of space in which to describe
“ some of the attractions of several of them which pre-
sented themselves to us as well worthy of notice.”
Lack of space ? Are there .no dead walls about Mel-
bourne for this artist to embellish with his airy fancies ?
Then Paris with a paste-pot proceeds to allot the apple:
—“Amongst the most fashionable married ladies present,
and those who received the largest share of attention,
must be mentioned .” God help the ladies of Mel-
bourne 1 We won’t give the names appended to this
affront. Now there is some cleverness in the ’Frisco
Chronicle’s wonderful accounts of the doings in the
brown stone mansions on “Nob’s Hill,” but it requires
talent to graft the American style on to the English
stock. And this is the paper which is to supersede the
Leader and the Australasian ? Ye gods I
The Scape-Goat.
The Government axe in a hurry. The fact that they
were deaf to a true warning oppresses their spirits.
Tne blundering and the inadequacy of their flurried
SIR ARTHUR H. PALMER, COLONIAL SECRETARY OF QUEENSLAND.


devices for preventing the spread of an infection which,
but for their wooden-headedness, need never have been
introduced, have been forced home even to their percep-
tion, and are, they justly fear, as obvious to the public
at large as was the writing on the wall to Belshazzar’s
guests. They hope to delude their victims by making
a prodigious business of atoning for their fault. The
Anti-Chinese Bill, which, if brought in when the warn-
ing was first given, would, in all probability, have
saved the city from small-pox, and certainly would have
saved the working-classes and small tradesmen from
alien competition, is the atonement they offer. In this
case, however, the scape-goat is expected to bear away
the sins, not of the people, but of the political high
priests.
A Celibate on Woman.
The magical and exceeding sweetness of the honied
eloquence of one of the Fathers of the Early Church
was such in the opinion of his contemporaries, that it
is related in history how they unanimously expressed
their sentiments thereof hy according him the distinc-
tive title of the “golden mouthed.” If St. John
Chrtsostom had flourished in our sceptical times he
might, saving his saintship, have justly feared for the
safety of his laurels. The polished prelate who so
gracefully discoursed at Monte Oliveto on Sunday last,
touching woman’s social mission, possesses shining
qualities of an oratorical cast, which even a Chrtsos*
tom might envy. This cultured ecclesiastic has lent a
contribution to an important question, which will cer.
tainly not be less noticeable for its novelty. If the ideal
he proposes be too ethereal for attainment, it is not too
abstract for admiration. His delicately pencilled
pictnre of the perfect woman, with her! ennobling
“ heart of sacrifice,” and her “ refinement of gentle-
ness,” however it may strike one as unfamiliar or un-
real, must, nevertheless, in this practical day, appeal
powerfully to the better sense of the unprejudiced
amongst us. Whatever may be our admiration for
practical men, a practical woman, as we have been ac-
customed to view that monstrosity, is nothing more
nor less than a social abomination. At the same
time, we sadly fear that the Archbishop’s ideal
is a little too highly toned to fit in with the
commonly accepted notion of woman's duties and
woman’s sphere. The gentle, haloed saints of the pre-
Eaphaelite pictures, with their faultless perfection of
outline, and their absence of healthy colouring and
breathing light and shade, prove too much against his
Grace’s position to form good, illustrations of his prof-
fered standards of average feminine character. It may
be doubted whether the abstract spirituality of the
-types he adduced would recommend itself to general
acceptation so well as the ordinary woman of matronly
heart and domestic affection. In actual life, we appre-
ciate the soft compassion and pure womanly sympathies
of the type we know, better than that cold abstraction
of an ideal perfection which Dr. Vaughan, with such
winning plausibility, places before our eyes. Certainly
he has done ample justice to his picture of perfect
feminine character of an elevated Christian type ; but
the ideal woman of social life has also been faithfully
pourtrayed. We have been told—and we like to dwell
upon the picture—how her movements, like the curv-
ing of a vine, seem an unerring accident of grace; how
like cool airs athwart the heated cheek of day come
the fair emanations of her thought; how like a tree,
unmindful of her shade, she spreads her helpful
branches everywhere; and how like a flower is the
subtle change and shine, and meaning of her brightly
tranquil face. There is nothing gross about this
nor is the spirituality of the picture too exalted to
repel—
“ For she is kinder than all others are.
And weak things, sad things gather where she dwells,
To reach, and taste her strength, and drink of her.
As thirsty creatures of clean water walls."
Forster and Parkes
Sir Henry Parkes cut a very poor figure when brought
to task by Mr. Forster for charging the latter with
continually pressing for an increase of hia salary. Cer-
tainly, the ex-Agent-General had the Premier in a tight
place. The latter had made a spiteful and untruthful
statement, apparently without consideration. And
after ample time for consideration he had not corrected
or qualified it. Mr. Forster had, ready to his hands,
conclusive evidence that Sir Henry had maligned
the character of a political rival, and had allowed the
scandal to circulate, apparently with a fixed design of
improving his own chances by damaging a man whom
he feared. It is strange that any man should be at
once so able and so petty, so shrewd and so blind. No
man gains stature in reality by showing his companions
through the medium of a diminishing lens. Such a re-
source belongs only to the armory of such as suspect
that they are not really greater than their contem-
poraries, and who yet are bent upon being thought to
be gigantic. Even at the lost moment, when the charge
was being brought home to him. Sir Henry might have
deprived it of injurious effect had he been capable of
even conceiving what magnanimity is like. Had ho
frankly confessed his error, pleaded haste, and regretted
his omission to earlier repair the injury, people would
have almost forgotten the original fault while they
admred t he largeness which framed the apology.
The Damnation of Doubt.
Whether members of the Y.M.C.A. or not, we may
accept with thanks the very sterling pabulum afforded
by Mr. Matherson’s lecture, “The Discipline of the
Age.” It is verily bread and water of life to mental
hunger: it holds that nutriment we so often seek in
vain in the puerile, or flippant, or vapid utterance of
the ordinary divine. Mr. Matherson had certainly
undergone the discipline of the age, and moulded him-
self in conformity with its stern requirements. He has ]
put aside the magician’s crystal, wherein theologians
have been accustomed to conjure up visions, and has
token in its place the philosopher’s prism, by whose aid
the mysterious white light fa divided and analyzed. His
cassock and bands sit very loosely upon him. Only at
times the trammels of dogma appear, and professional
platitudes' fall blurringly across the outspoken utter-
ances of the man. “ The widening of the bounds of
knowledge .... exposes men to the danger of
becoming sceptical, which is the woefullest condition
into which a human being could fall.” Other matters
“pave the way to effeminacy and indolence,” which
we are apparently to aonsider as less terrible conditions
than that most woeful one of scepticism. Again, “This
is the time when the craven and the indolent will be
sceptioaL” Certainly, these are bnt isolated passages,
but are they not miserably stunted when compared with
those other words wherein the author speaks “ right
on," and tells us those things which he himself does
know ? Listen t« them: they will well boar quotation.
• in the darkest hour through which a human soul
can pass, whatever else is doubtful, this at least
is certain —If there be no God and no future state,
even yet it is better to be generous than selfish,
better to be chaste than licentious, better to be true
than false, better to be brave than a coward.”
Frederick William Robertson was first to give them
breath. Mr. Matherson, quoting them, gives full en-
dorsement, and unquestionably they are the confession
of men who have been sceptical; and wherefore scep-
tical ? Because they were “craven and indolent,” shall
we answer P If so, how many must we brand with that
double infamy ? We dare not begin the process. Mr.
Matherson himself would cut off his right hand
sooner than attempt it. His arsenal is so stored with
the churchly damnation of doubt that a chance volley
escaped him unawares. Doubt, scepticism—the terms
are synonymous —are the offspring of earnest thought.
Mr. Matherson might have remembered yet another
stanza of his oft-quoted poet. Its ending is in this
manner—
“ There lives more faith in honest doubt.
Believe me, than in half the creeds.”
Mean Streets.
We have been writing and protesting, till we have be-
come nearly as black in the face as a Christy Minstrel,
about the iniquity of the subdivisions of land in the
suburbs of Sydney and elsewhere. The miserably mean
alleys which have been marked off in lieu of streets
mean as the souls of the speculators who conceived
them—gave a sort of assurance of pestilence and low
living for futnre generations. The Institute of Sur-
veyors took the matter up, with splendid courage, the
other day—courage splendid, because the men who re.
monstrated ran more than a risk of being marked by
the givers of a profitable class of employment, the
owners of estates to be subdivided. A deputation
waited on the Ministry, and urged the need of reform
in this essential. Ministers have done nothing. Their
programme is out, and, as might have been expected,
they have shirked tackling the.land-jobbers, with whom
they are accused of being particularly Hi. Luckily, tbe
Assembly is not quite barren of legislators. Mr.iG.3H.
Reid has come to the rescue, and submits a bill framed
with the design of preventing the perpetuance of this
infamy, which Ministers seemed to regard with indif-
ference, if not affection. If Mr. Reid’s bill be adopted
by independent members ot the Assembly—as it surely
will, providing the influence of jobbery be not too pre-
valent —there will be in future no more lanes where
streets should be, and alleys where there should be
lanes. Streets will have to be laid out at least one and
a half chains wide, and lanes over a half-chain. And
there will be no trouble about deciding what shall be a
street and what a lane, because one must alternate with
the other. Nor will it be permitted to use a lane as a
frontage, and so save a perch of ground—for whoever
makes of an allotment double-frontage will be required to
open a fresh lane, separating tbe two premises. At-
tempts will, perhaps, be made to urge that the pro-
posed thoroughfares will be too wide; that the expense
of their formation and maintenance will be prohibitive,
and perhaps that the son-glare will be oppressive. But
there will be no need to form the full width of a street
from the jump ; and as for the snn-glare, have we not
the eucalyptus globulus and Moreton Bay fig tree P
City Step-Fathers.
It has been anite in keeping with what has heretofore
been known of the Municipal Council that, at the very
time when a pestilential disorder had commenced o
work havoc in the city, they should have decided to
revive the discredited plan of slaughtering on butchers’
premises. While the utmost necessity has arisen for
purging the city of everything that is foul or putrefying
—for submitting the city to such a purification and
lustration as it has never had since it was built—the
butchers’ interest in the Municipal Council prevails
once more, and back yards are again to be converted
into shambles. This seems a direct parallel with the
case of Pharaoh, when the Lord hardened his hearty
and he would not let the people go. If the citizens are
not now to be protected from organized assaults upon
their health, when can they hope to be ? The purpose
of the renewed license to slaughter in the city is quite
clear. There are Aldermen who are butchers, and
Aldermen who ought to be. Their personal and pocket
interest is directly antagonistic to the well-being of
the citizens whom they pretend to represent. They
make a farcical demonstration, indeed, of submitting
themselves to official supervision. There will be no
smell, no blood, no offal —or, at least, Ac., Ac, The
premises will be constantly inspected. By whom ? The
s hambles of Aldermen and of Aldermen’s friends will he
inspected by Aldermen’s servants, the municipal
officers. This is a sham and a fraud! No man should
be exposed to such a trial. The officer who did his duty
would feel his post not worth a month’s purchase.
There are other ways of killing a dog than hanging
I him. An inspector who does his duty may be dismissed
because worthy Aldermen become impressed with the
necessity for economising.
A Radical Proposal.
Me. Slattery, M.L.A., has given notice of his inten.
tion to introduce a bill to abolish the Municipal Council
of Sydney. The motion justifies the proposal. Inas-
much as the Municipal Council has failed to perform
the functions for the discharge of which it was con-
stituted—this is a proposition which no one, except,
perhaps, John Davies, C.M.G., would have the im-
pudence to controvert —it is expedient that it be forth-
with abolished. These are not Mr. Slattery’s precise
words, but they are their equivalents. The motion
will not be adopted. Hon. members will ask themselves
what is to take the place of the effete Municipal body P
Mr. Slattery will probably tell them to “toss up,”
and that nothing can be worse. But the creative
faculty of the present Assembly is an nnknow n quality#
and to use Mr. Slattery’s own probable words, in an
altered sense, “ Nothing ” may be worse than even the
Municipal Council with all its imperfections. After all
the citizens must have their scavengering done, their
roads kept in passable condition, and their general
business seen to, at any cost. No matter how shame-
lessly they may be plundered and cozened, no matter
how large a proportion of their rates may be divided
I among organised gangs of bandits, no matter although
the aldermen of this year be the scamping contractor
lof next year—there is work which mnst be done. The
central Government cannot (very well be expected to
undertake it at the very moment when they are pre-
senting a large measure to extend the scope and sphere
I of Municipal Government. But could they rise to the
point of recognising exceptional necessities and of de-
-1 s pis ing uniformity—that refuge of nincompoops—the
Government might accept the charge for awhile, with
I enormous advantage to the community and infinite
credit to themselves. Desperate maladies require
desperate remedies.
A Bitter Fend.
The Hon. Samuel Walker Griffith, of Queensland,
has either landed himself, or has heen landed by
superior dexterity on the part-of his antagonist, in an
extremely ridiculous position. With a precipitation
which was at the time everywhere condemned, he
brought charges of the grossest malversation against
Mr. MTlwraith, the Premier of Queensland —Mr-
Griffith being himself leader of the Opposition. A
commission was appointed to investigate his charges.
One member of that committee was Mr. George King,
a Queenslander of the most elevated character, against
whom, although he was nominated by the Government
not even Mr. Griffith ventured a word of objection.
The other was Mr. Gibbs, C. 8., nominated in England by
the Secretary of State for the Colonies. These gentle-
men have heard the evidence, in Mr. Griffith’s own
presence, aa he went home specially to make good his
charges. Their report is simply crushing. Summarized
by themselves, in a final paragraph, they "beg to report
that having carefully considered all',the evidence taken
before us, we find that there was no preconcerted ar-
rangement in the matter, as alleged in the remarks
aforesaid; that the colony has not heen shamefully
plundered by a ring of speculators in the London Office;
and that there was no such ring of speculators; and
that the charge of connivance brought against the Pre-
mier is without foundation.’* This is conclusive
enough. But Mr, Griffith is not yet satisfied. In
fact, he dare not be satisfied. He was warned at the
onset that unless he made good his charges all the dis-
grace which he sought to heap upon his enemy would
recoil upon his own head. He admits in the
as we learn by telegraph, that the evidence leaves the
Premier unsullied ; but he expresses no shame and no
pain at having charged him with corruption, and in
private he continues to repeat by a sneer or an inuendo
all he had ventured to say openly before. He does not
expose himself to ridicule by questioning the integrity
of the Commissioners, but he does by attacking their
competence. He invites the world to believe that he,
obviously convicted of having made against a political
opponent a charge which he has been able to adduce no
tittle of evidence to support, is yet right; and
dispassionate, impartial investigators wrong on
all other points. He appeals from the Commission,
from the! two picked disinterested men, to that more
dispassionate and competent body—his own partizans I
He begs them to read the evidence, and (promises to
pick out bits which will convince them that at any rate
there has been collusion in London between the Queens-
and Government's consulting engineer and a firm in
which the Premier’s brother is partner. This seems, on
the face of it, mere foaming at the mouth—simply the
hallucination of mortification. This appeal is from an
impartial to a prejudiced tribunal; from men of proved
ability to a miscellaneous assemblage; from men who
have not only read but heard the evidence, and seen the
deportment of the | witnesses, to men who have only
read, and have neither heard nor seen. Mr. Griffith’s
course was plain. He should have waited and suffered.
One day he will be Premier. Then, he could have a
Eoyal Commission, and dig up the matter afresh to the
very roots. But he appears to lack the dignity neces-
sary .for supporting unmerited disgrace. H e wriggles
and rails. This may serve him among his partizans.
It will make him contemptible in the eyes of unpre-
judiced observers. Does Mr. Griffith reallyllbelieve
that a party division would anywhere outweigh the
deliberate judgment of the Commissioners ? Is his
horizon so narrow that for him there is no world out"
side his own coterie P
A Difficult Position.
Me. John Davies, the distinguished politician, whose
eminent talents and services have been recognized by
his Sovereign, and rewarded by the distinction of a
Companionship with Saints Michael and Geokgb— the
latter, by the way, historically infamous as a dishonest
contractor —has a difficult position to extricate himself
from. He is the champion of the protestors against
the Oxford-street double-tram iniquity, and finds it in-
cumbent upon himself, in that character, to denounce
the arbitrary action of the Government, This he does
very handsomely. Mr. Davies knows thoroughly the
precise expense which words put a man to. He
hurls bushels of them at the heads of Ministers
in a style which makes Ajax defying the lightning
comparatively a feeble ideal. And Ministers endure
the ordeal with a noble composure. The spectacle
thus afforded is a very elevating and gratifying one. The
uncompromising advocate of the popular rights,denounc-
ing the most powerful Ministry. The most powerful
Ministry unruffled, unappalled, strong in an inward
consciousness of integrity and right. But when it is
suggested that something more than words is needed, in
order that Mr. Davies’ crusade may bo effectual, the
picture becomes blurred. When goaded by Mr. Mel-
ville to “ move a vote of censure against the Govern-
ment,” the impassioned champion of the people loses
his temper, and takes the suggestion in extremely bad
part. He retorts that he “ will move a vote of censure
against the Government when it suits him.” The
force of this repartee lies in its truthfulness. When
it suits him, of course.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Hon. E. D, Eeid contests West Bourke against
O’Loghlen.
M'Elhone has called for the papers in the Susan
Nixon gastrotomy case.
Ton can’t lead nothin?. Therefore the Opposi-
tion cannot have a leader.
A determined attempt will, it is said, be made
to stonewall the bill for re-appointing Mr. Temporary
Judge Windeyer.
On being compared with O’Loghlen and his
henchmen, Mr. Berry and his followers appear more
than ultra-respectable.
It is thought that the Eoyal Commission now
sitting at Pretoria will recommend the entire surrender
of the country to the Boers.
Mr. Teece moves, on 19th inst., a resolution
having for its object the abolition of fees for elemen-
tary instruction in State schools.
Dr. Eenwick is “going for” Mr. Forster in
regard to the now historical speech of the Agent-
General before the Colonial Institute.
On 2nd August Mr. Slattery moves a resolution
affirming the desirableness of sweeping away the
Sydney corporation and its corruption.
The sale of the Training College Reserve at
Ashfleld, at £250 per acre, to Mr, Jamieson, a well-
known supporter of Sir Henry Farkes, has excited Mr.
Forster's curiosity. Local residents assert that the
land is worth at least £5OO per acre. Mr. Forster
wants to know the why and wherefore of the trans-
action.
Mr. Trickett moves a resolution having for its
object the practical abolition of J’s.P. as dispensers of
justice in city and suburban police courts.
The total of England’s trade, imports and ex-
ports lumped, last year was £693,655,291 —or £11,000,000
greater than the highest total ever previously recorded.
According to the captain of the schooner Lilian,
a man-of-war has sailed from Tahiti to take possession
of the island of Raiatea on behalf of the French Re-
public.
A motion for the “ reimbursement of expenses
in relation to the attendance at Parliament of mem-
bers,” has been introduced by Mr. Dixson into the S A.
Assembly.
It has been pointed out to the Governor of
Victoria that if he is right in refusing Mr. Berry a
dissolution now, he was wrong when ha granted it to
Mr. Service.
12,000 persons, including thirteen members of
Parliament, attended the religious service in connection
with the annual commemoration by the Orange
societies of the 12th July.
The S.A. 4 per cent, loan of .£1,370,000 has
been floated in London, without the assistance of the
banks, at £lO2 l&s. 6d. Applications reached £2,009,800,
at an average of £lO2 19s. Bd.
The final meeting of the Executive, called by
Mr. Berry for Saturday, was attended only by himself !
The O’Loghlen Ministry had, therefore, to confirm the
last acts of their predecessors.
Mr. Slattery will, on 9th Aug., move that the
salaries of the Supreme Court Judges be increased —
that of His Honor the Chief Justice to £3500, and those
of the.Puisne Judges to £3OOO per annum.
1 Ft must be very satisfactory to the Opposition
to know that the Government have called Parliament
together at so early a period of the session .” Very good
for the Premier's jackall—the little doctor.
The new Victorian Government will be known
to history—that is to say, it history doesn’t overlook it
altogether—as “ the Duffer Ministry.” It is composed
of a choice selection of political incompetents.
A motion, to the effect that provision should be
made in the Electoral Bill promised by the Premier for
the adoption of Hare’s system of proportional repre-
sentation, has been tabled by Dr. Wallis in the N.Z.
Parliament.
Says Dan. of the last Parliament, “ A more
diabolical Parliament never existed." Dan. must have
been in a very extravagant humour when he talked of
“draining the Pacific Ocean with a ladder with 100
holes in it.”
Tawhiao (the Maori king), Manahori, and others
went unsolicited into Alexandra, N.Z., on Monday, and
laid 80 guns at the feet of Major Mair, whom they took
to represent the Government, saying this was an offer-
ing in the name of peace.
Tasmania is now the only British colony that
has an Upper House which presumes to strike out votes
from an Appropriation Bill. Its Premier, Mr. Giblin,
is on the war-path for reform, and is just the kind of
man to bring the “ 16 tyrants ” down on their marrow-
bones.
Mr. G. H. Reid introduces a bill to set apart cer-
tain Crown lands along all present and future lines of
railway as a provision for reducing that portion of the
public debt incurred for railway purposes. Mr. Reid
also moves for a full enquiry into the working of the
Land Laws.
Rumour has it that, should the Chinese Restric-
tion Bill pass the Assembly in its present form, a
majorityof the Council will make material amendments
in it. The bill is essentially a “ money” one. Will Sir
Henry again introduce his famous bill to define the
rights and privileges of the Upper House ?
The attempt to secure to Angus Cameron £5OO
for the next two years was about as creditable as the
indignation of the so-called Opposition was amusing.
The latter, of course, saw in the proposal an effort to
deprive them of the only very dimly prospective oppor-
tunity to bestow patronage—in other words, to make a
“ snug thing” for one of their own.
Estimated revenue of N.Z. for the year, ex-
elusive of the land fund, £3,297,000; expenditure,
£3,276,000. It is intended to amend the Property Tax
A *4, so as to render £11,000,000 foreign capital, now
exempt, liable to taxation. A flee per cent, quarter-
million loan, interest and principal to be payable only
in the colony, will be floated, to afford investment for
small savings.
A considerable sum was collected at the Irish
Land League meeting at Albury. Mr. Walshe argued
that the movement was strictly legal, constitutional,
and unseotarian, being supported by prominent men of
all denominations, including the leading members of
Orange lodges. Its object was to do away with rack-
renting. The Very Rev. J. Donne, R. C. Vicar-General
of the Goulburn diocese, headed the subscription list
with £5.
Like one or two more, Mr. Fremlin said, in the
ringbarking debate, that he didn’t think Mr. Henry
Kendall, the poet, should have been appointed inspector
of forests; he had signed a requisition in favour of a
young man, who was thoroughly qualified, but the
Government had taken no notice of it. We wonder who
“ the qualified young man ” is ? What a pity the hon,
member should have let everyone know how the milk
got into the cocoa-nut 1
Poor Buzzy, in the Queensland Legislative
Council, had an hour’s wrangle about his troubles as
editor of the Courier. He accused Walsh, the political
Ishmael, of being the writer of the letter in the Tele-
graph, stating that the Courier is “in a most abject
state.” Walsh did not deny the soft impeachment, but
he didn’t Confess, and took it out of Buzzy by reading
the letter all through, and so getting it republished in
Hansard. Poor Buzzy 1 Poor Courier I Sagacious
proprietors, who replaced a Lukin by a Buzacott 1
The Speaker has already had occasion to use
his authority to eliminate objectionable questions from
the notice-paper. One of the rejected questions was by
Mr. M’Elhone, who wished to know whether, in addition
to the gold medal, the Government would supply mem-
bers of Parliament with overcoats, branded with the
the broad-arrow and V.R., so that they (the members)
might be distinguished from other people. The other
was by Mr. Buchanan, and had reference to the death
of Mrs. Nixon from the effects of a surgical operation
performed on her.
Ths N.Z. Ministry have had a bill drafted em
powering Government to grant aid in land to private
companies which may undertake the construction of
approved lines of railway. A recent Queensland Bill is
being taken as the model, and its lines are closely fol-
lowed, but a general feeling prevails that the proposed
twenty-five per cent, aid is not enough to secure the
desired object, and that one-third the cost of construction
would require to be provided for by Government land
grant, to afford a reasonable chance of success in float-
ing such an undertaking.
The other day Sir G. M. O’Rorko convened in
the N.Z. Speaker’s room a meeting of Auckland mem-
bers on a local subject. Sir George Grey warmly pro-
tested against Sir G. M. O’Rorke’s action, and vehem-
ently condemned his taking any part in matters of
controversy. Sir G. M. O’Rorke retorted with equal
warmth, declining to be dictated to by Sir George Grey,
and a violent altercation ensued, which, rumour says,
ended in Sir George Grey being firmly and by main
force, but not roughly, turned out of Sir G. M.
O’Rorke’s room, and going away in a rage.
This is how the Federal Australian, which
seems to have a fine instinct, refers to the eclipse of
Berry, not having the gumption to see that it is but an
eclipse:—“ The Berry Ministry has fallen. Berryism is
dead. The Berry blight is extinguished. The baleful
pestilence which has withered up the prosperity of this
country for years is banished at last. The air is clear
again; the sun shines out; the hearts of men are spon-
taneously joyous." Of course the “ things” who sup-
port Berry still —a few hundred thousands in Victoria
—are not “men," or they would be spontaneously
joyous. What the dickens are they P
The Victorian Ministry; —Sir Bryan O’Loghlen,
Premier, Attorney-General, and Acting-Treasurer;
Hon. J. M. Grant, Chief Secretary, and Minister of
Education; Mr. J. Bolton, Postmaster-General; Mr. J.
H. Graves, Commissioner of Customs; Mr. D. Gaun-
son. Minister of Lands; Hon. T. Bent, Commissioner


From certain peculiarities in its prospectus, the
Federal Australian was, even before it came out,
nicknamed "the dressed meat organ." From the
manner in which it describes the ladies who attend
fashionable balls it would appear at present to be the
" undressed meat ” organ par excellence.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, fBd.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
Do not take the cue! You are supplied with
Alcock's best ebony handle cue at the Coffee Tavern
Billiard Boom, Pitt-street.— Adv.
IMPORTANT
AND
INTERESTING STATEMENTS.
STM -■*)
Read, Mark, and Inwardly Digest—Some-
thing for Everybody.
PURITY OP FAMILY MEDICINES OF
THE UTMOST IMPORTANCE.
HOP BITTERS !
ABE THE
Purest, Best, and Cheapest Medicine ever
Made.
THEY ABE COMPOUNDED FROM
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (PO~
DOPHYLLIN ) & DANDELION.
The Oldest, Best, most Eenowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and in
addition contain all the best and most
effective curative properties of all other
Bitters, being the Greatest BLOOD PUEf-
FIEB and life and health restoring agent
on earth.
No disease or ill-health can possibly long
exist where these Bitters are used, so
varied and perfect are their operations.
They Give New Life and Vigor to the
Aged and Infirm.
To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary Men,
Ladies, and all those whose sedentary
employments cause irregularity of the
Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or Kidneys, or
who require an Appetiser, Tonic, and mild
Stimulant, these Bitters are invaluable,
being highly curative, tonic, and stimu-
lating, without intoxicating.
No matter what your failings or symp-
toms are, or what the disease or ailment
is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t wait until you
are sick, but if you only feel bad or miser-
able, use the Bitters at once. It may save
your life. Hundreds have been saved by
so doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask yonz Chemist, Druggist, or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your friends
suffer, but use and urge them to use Hop
Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged nostrum, but the puerest, cheapest,
and best Medicine ever made, and no per-
son or family should be without it.
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
General Agents,
Sydney, N.8.W., Australia.
StWIAL l/Ae>
ssgSinssScfc
rjl H E INT E R COLONIAL
HEAD OFFICE: 263 GEORGE STREET.
CAPITAL: £lOO.OOO. SUBSCRIBED; £42,049.
LIFE and FIRE INSURANCES.
LOWEST RATES of PREMIUM.
•ST Policy holders participate to the extent of four-
fifths in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
Largest establishment op the
KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST,
Pure Java* Tea^ 61 1 25 * 28 3s » 3s 60, 4s, 4s 6d,' 5e
Pure Indian Tea j P er
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d.
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any;of the above Teas,
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, Bsd per lb.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
of Railways; Mr. Charles Young, Minister for Mines
and Agriculture, and Water Supply; Dr. Dobson,
Upper House, as Solicitor-General. Mr. L. L. Smith
has a portfolio without salary. Pinchatn was asked to
join—because O’Loghlen knew he was very ill in bed
and couldn’t accept. Maobain will temporarily repre-
sent the new Government in the Upper House. Cooper
receives the Government support for the Chairmanship
of Committees.
Unhappy Kidd ! He is the victim of circum-
stances. He didn’t mean to rat. He was simply
modest —as ever. Entering the House, he saw the
Government benches and corner crowded. He had
been roasted for over-demonstrativeness during last
session, and shrank from making anything like an in-
tentional fuss. Therefore, he subsided meekly into the
nearest seat —front Opposition bench. Reporters and
telegraph agents, hungry for an item, marked his posi-
tion. He was impaled in paragraphs, and pinned in
telegrams. All the country papers announced his
perversion. He was fixed. At least—that’s the way
it’s turned off now.
The following explanation is given of the per-
manent source of Austrian influence in Servia:—
“ Austria-Hungary is master of the position indepen-
dent of any formal engagements. The wealth of Servia,
for all purposes of barter, consists in its vast herds of
swine. These animals are for the most part raised in
Servia, fattened in Hungary, and eaten in Germany.
The only outlet for the swine is by way of Hungary,
and if that outlet be closed the beasts multiply so
rapidly that, in spite of considerable powers in the con-
sumption of pork, the Servians run the risk of being
the consumed instead of the consumers. A pig that a
man can neither eat nor sell becomes a bore. Austro-
Hungarian statesmen know this. Directly the Servians
are restive, they are shut in with their pigs, or more
properly their pigs are shut in with them. The import
duty is raised, or the pigs are accused of trichinosis or
what not, and their owners are driven to despair. Come
what may, do what they will, they must yield to
Austria; for the pig is master of the situation, and the
Austrian is master of the pig."
SOCIAL.
[Those who send us social items should give their names
and addresses, which will under no circumstances
whatever be disclosed. Our Social column is intended
to be a record, in perfectly good faith, of the leading
social events of the day.]
Mrs. Molesworth, the amiable wife of Mr. Hick-
man Molesworth, the well-known Victorian barrister,
died very suddenly last week. She was left by her
husband in the morning in apparently her usual
condition of health; but soon after Dr M’Crea brought
to Mr. Molesworth the melancholy intimation that she
had dropped down dead. The deceased lady was a
daughter of the late Mr. William Rutledge, of Famham
Park, near Warrambool, and sister to Mr. T. P. Rut-
ledge, well-known in sporting circles here. She leaves
several children. Heart disease was the cause of death,
mm*
Miss E. O’Hagan (daughter of Captain
O’Hagan), one of the prettiest and most amiable girls
in Sydney, died last week of consumption, which
attacked her after she had for some weeks nursed a
friend who was ill of the same terrible disease. She
has a sister in a religious establishment at Maitland,
and it was also the intention of the deceased young
lady to devote herself to a conventual life.
» • *
On the arrival of the new coat of arms, which is
to be placed over the door of the French consulate in
Sydney, steps will be taken to bring together all the
French residents, so as to do proper honour to the
national emblem on as large a scale as circumstances will
permit.
* » *
In American cities, when friends meet and speak
on the broad sidewalk, they, on shaking hands, imme-
diately move over to the edge of the kerb. In Sydney,
when people meet on footpaths so narrow that one can
sometimes hardly get his open umbrella between the
posts of the verandahs, they stand right in the middle
of the track.
* # #
Mr. Theodore Fink, the rising Melbourne
solicitor and literary man, will this month be married
to a daughter of Mr. George Isaacs, of that city.
* • *
It has already been found necessary to enlarge
the premises of the recently-established United Club,
which has almost doubled its members’ roll within a
few months, and bids fair to be the most extensive affair
of the kind in these colonies.
* • #
On the 22nd, at the Exhibition Building, the
MasOnic Ball, in which the Governor, Little Gussie,
Large Henry—(small caps here, Abe, please)—The
Matob, Earl Clanwilliam, and the two young Princes
will appear—takes place. If there is a dress suit to be
hired, and a “ dicky" to be purchased (on time pay-
ment), we shall be there.
• * *
Now that the testimonial mania is at fever heat,
a little incident which occurred at Wood’s Point, in its
early days, may aptly be recalled. A hank accountant,
a very popular fellow, intimated that he was about to
leave the field, whereupon several facetious friends
invited him to a “ testimonial game of loo.” He accepted
the invitation, and next morning accepted bills to the
tune of £42, which he had to meet long after he got to
his new locale.
mm*
The catering for the Mayor’s Ball is in the same
hands as was the last,
• * *
The Melbourne Beau Brummell who runs the
very voluminous journal which we had occasion to
notice two weeks ago, has given his readers another
society dose, this time an inane toady article redolent
of royalty and Fraugipain, descriptive of the Mayor’s
Ball. The aesthetic Yankee who is the guiding-star of
the publication, has rootled out every word in his
■ Webster’s Unabridged that might with any degree ©f
aptness apply to beauty, toilet, and flirtation. He
misses the “ rosebuds " upon whom he went into fits
of ecstacies in his last, but pads up his article with an
intensely vulgar and idiotic comparison between the
Jewish guests of the Mayor and those who were only
fit to brush shoulders with himself and royalty. Ego et
re* wieus.
* * m
The ball at “ Prestonville,” on Thursday even-
ing last, proved, under the direction of the most ex-
cellent of hostesses, a grand success. The ball-room
displayed a scene of brilliancy never before equalled at
the Point,” and the hands of the clock had passed
over several of the small hours of Friday before the
gates closed on the last of the numerous guests.
* • «
The return ball to the Mayor of Melbourne will,
it is understood, be a Fancy Dress affair.
* # *
Mrs. E. G. Pitzgibbon, wife of the Town Clerk
of Melbourne, gave a most enjoyable ball in the Town
Hall the other evening, at which 500 were present.
£ itz, himself had written some verse for the backs of
the cards, and the Princes, having heard that there was
Poetry on the programme, kept away.
* * *
It is understood that there are to be 2000 invita-
tions issued for the forthcoming Mayor’s ball. Mr.
omith, of the Catering Company, will have his work
cut out to feed so large a crowd.
m m m
It is not yet known who will furnish the dynamite
'or the Princes. Probably the “ uninvited ones.”
I, * * *
At Belfast, Yic., the other night, young man
named Revell, while dancing with a lady of rather
Herculean” proportions, who weighed 14 stone, acci-
dentally fell. The sylph came down on him, and now
revefs ? ** splilltB and P laster of Paris. Rather costly
* * #
Friday night, the Newtown Private Skating
held a dance. Some five score members and
inends carried on the dissipation till the smallest hour
on the dial. The programme was exhausted at 12
o’clock, but the guests were not; so an extra hour was
borrowed from next morning to satisfy their thirst for
pleasure. As Mr. Ingham presided over the harmony,
of course the music was good and new. The City Cater-
ing 00. provided refreshments that would have pleased
Amphitryon. A gent leman who has the misfortune to be
both deaf and dumb surprised many by his admirable
dancing.
* * *
About a hundred guests attended Mr. Alfred
Read’s annual ball at Newtown, on Thursday last—some
in plain, some in fancy dresses. Of the latter may be
mentioned an extremely well-dressed tambourine girl,
a gipsy, “ Little Bopeep,” “ Mercy Merrick,” and a
“ Pinafore ’’ dress, which, instead of the usual light
colours, was all black, and looked novel and pretty.
A trio of gentlemen represented “ Harlequin, Clown,
and Pantaloon,” both in dress and actions: perhaps
they did a little too much in the acting. The new polos
were on the programme—and the Polonaise march, not
new, but rarely executed, afforded an opportunity for
displaying the costumes. The Temperance Hall was
decorated for the occasion, and looked gay and festive
until four o’clock a.m.
* # «
Here is a little bit of news.
That not a lady will refuse.
It’s only this : two belles, we hear.
At Gussie’s fowl-house won’t appear.
The reason given is one which
Turns cn a matrimonial hitch.
We could say more, —but, well, there, come I
To be good-natured, we’ll be dumb.
But let’s risk this —without those gals,
They'll he “slim,” those theatricals.
* # tt
Private theatricals at Government House on the
18th—“A Wonderful Woman,” the piece.
* * *
At “ Ithaca,” a ball, to which 120 have been
invited, will be held this week,
» * •
The bachelors’ ball at Newcastle, last week,
attracted a very nice company, and there was a fair
display of the beauty and fashion of the coaly city.
Some of the costumes were very attractive. The
estimable wife of a well-known colliery manager ap-
peared greatly to advantage in a cestume of old gold
and black satin. A young lady from the Hill looked
most becoming in a dress of black satin, embellished
with bunches of deep red roses. A King-street lady in
cardinal and black satin, a Maitland belle in white
lustre, trimmed with white satin, and a Newcastle lady
similarly attired were greatly admired.
» * *
A bachelors’ ball eventuates at Maitland on 21st
inst. On the same date a grand private ball is to be
given at the residence, at Branxton, of Mr. John Wynd-
ham, to which representatives of all the leading
families of the district have been invited. Later in the
month, a ball is to be given at Duokenfleld, the resi-
dence of the Hon. John Bales. The ball-room at
Duckenfleld has no superior in the colonies.
# # #
Grand juvenile fancy dress masquerade ball, in
connection with a fashionable school for young gentle-
men, on Friday night. The boys all on the twitter.
The belle of Sorry Hills expected to be present.
* # «
Three Commercial Bank Williams are about to
ho married.
# * #
We received, some days since, from Mr. Stanley,
secretary of the Masonic Quadrille Club, a very nice
little ticket, inviting us to a grand soiree at the Masonic
Temple. We were unable to attend, but we understand
the affair was a very brilliant success. Mr. James Hunt
is the president of the fClnb, Mr. N. Weekes the trea-
surer, and Mr. G. B. Mason M.O. Being grey-headed
ourselves, the “ light-fantastic ” is rather beyond us;
but next time the club send us an invitation, we will
take our grand-children along, and weep for joy. whilst
beholding them “foot it in the mazy dance."
• * •
The Bachelors’ ball eventuates at Needs’ rooms
on the 19th, and the Masonic ball on the 20th, at the
Old Exhibition building. The always enjoyable Mer-
cantile Rowing Club ball comes off on the 21st, and
about 1200 invitations have been issued for the Govern-
ment House ball, on 22nd. It is high time that a com-
modious ball-room were provided at Government
House. Dancing will, on the occasion now referred to,
be carried on in three rooms. St. Vincent's Hospital
ball on the 26th, and the Sydney Assembly ball on the
the 29th, at Needs’ rooms.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Gamer leave by the Zea-
landxa to-day (Thursday) tor a three months’ trip to
America, during which Mr. Garner will be represented
here hy Mr. Q. L. Goodman.
« « «
“ Olivette/’ now being succeeds
“ Tambour-Major."
• * *
Last night (Wedneaday) the Wilhelmj company
gave another splendidly successful concert.
* * *
At the Orange celebration, Miss Clara Hamilton
(who won’t sing for the Highland Society I), Miss
Gilberthorpe, Mr. A. Fairfax, Mr. W. F. Baker, and
others warbled to the multitude. There was so much
trampling, and talking, and dust, however, that, for the
most part, the singers were inaudible beyond the plat-
form. When these artists sing in a place more adapted
to the requirements of a concert, we shall endeavour to
give some account of them. At the festival in question
the people merely want to hear the poor Jesuits ham.
mered at hy Messrs Davies and Henson. That's all the
music they care for.
• # #
Bill Hoskins benefited on July 9th, at Adelaide,
in “ Formosa.” He is to support Miss Pomeroy, play-
ing Touchstone in “ As You Like It.” Go it, William!
May you never die.
• « *
The Fakir of Ooln is to have a “ ben.” in Mel-
bourne, d ce que Von dit.
* • •
An English tragedian, named Dewhurst, appears
on Saturday, at the Melbourne Royal. He comes out
here armed with splendid press notices. But when
didn’t a tragedian land upon our shores so armed ? If
Mr. Dewhurst is only half as good as he is said to he, he
will go down with the Sydney people like a steel ram-
rod down an old musket.
* * *
Miss Annis Montague has stripped the gardens
of Brisbane ©f their flowers. People are beginning to
fear that the supply for bouquets will give out before
the Opera Company finish their season. It is a treat,
the Brisbane people say, to see Miss Montague appear
before the curtain actually laden with bouquets.
* # *
Mr. W. C. Dillon’s benefit took place at the
School of Arts last night. A full notice of the per-
formance will appear in our next issue.
* * *
On Thursday, 21st, Mr. Hallewell, will give a
grand matinee at the School of Arts, assisted hy
‘‘eminentartists.” The ad. is signed F. Kent, so we
shall be Surrey if there is not a good roll up.
# # *
At the Queen’s Theatre, on Friday, Mr. Defries
will appear in Hamlet. As we have never had an
opportunity of witnessing this gentleman in his im-
personation of the gloomy prince, we will do our
utmost to be present on the occasion. It would be
gratifying to Mr. Steele’s many admirers if he would
play the King on this occasion, as we have heard that
he gives a very good impersonation of that erring
monarch. Miss Marian Willis should make a smart
Ophelia—if she only plays up to her Pauline standard—
and we look forward with some interest to behold Mr.
O’Neil in the part of the grave-digger.
# # #
The Theatre Royal, Brisbane, has been so
crowded that people have actually taken their tea and
eaten it at the doors, so as to secure a seat, or even
standing room inside. And the Montague-Turners
leave all this behind to come back to us.
# # #
“ Billee Taylor ” will be produced shortly in
Melbourne, under the direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson,
who, by the way, owns the Australian copyright, as
also that of “ Patience,” Gilbert and Sullivan’s new
{esthetic opera. The costumes for both pieces are on
the way. The “ Billee Taylor” company, now being or-
ganised, will be a very strong one.
#. # #
Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Williamson are now in
Sydney, for a short holiday. They are staying at
Petty’s.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Garfield rapidly recovering.
Turkey and Greece at War.
Phylloxera rampant on the Douro.
Population of Bombay city 755,000.
Italy issuing loan for large amount.
Eight Socialists arrested in Vienna.
Lord Salisbury leads the Tory peers.
Amount of Italian loan, .£30,000,000.
Lusitania, s.s., left Plymouth July 8.
Irish Land Bill making rapid progress.
Riots among wharf labourers at Montreal.
The monetary conference at Paris a failure.
More French war vessels ordered to Tunis.
Insurrection at Mecca. 250 Turkish soldiers
killed.
Persecuted Russian Jews emigrating to
America.
Quarrels and fever among Panama Canal
labourers.
Trouble brewing in Albania. Reinforcements
sent by Turkey.
French still bombarding Sfax. They have failed
to effect a landing.
Fire broke out on board Cincinatti (s.s.); 151 of
her passengers were landed at New York.
Big volunteer review at Windsor, before Queen,
next month ; 56,000 men of all arms expected.
Great internal dissensions in Afghanistan.
Ayoub Khan still trying to oust the now Ameer.
The Standard says Right Hon. W. E. Baxter
succeeds Grant-Duff as Under-Secretary for the
Colonies.
An Irish process server, while in the execution
of his duties, has been dragged from his horse and half
murdered.
Bradlaugh says he means to present himself at
the Commons on Aug. 3, and repeat his demand to be
allowed to take the oath.
Population of England and Wales increased dur-
ing decade from 22,760,359 to 25,968,000: that of London
from 3,254,000 to 3,815,000.
The corrupt practices at Elections Bill, also the
Oaths Bill introduced to meet Bradlaugh’s case, have
been abandoned for the present session.
It is feared that the Franco-Tunisian imbroglio
will give rise to a European eruption. Prance is mobi-
lizing. The London Press regards the situation as
grave.
Sfax suffered severely from the recent bombard-
ment. However, the French are meeting with much
resistance from the Arabs and Kroumirs, both on the
coast and inland.
One of the Sultan’s murderers has, it is said,
confessed that Abdul Aziz was killed for purely
mercenary motives, and that much treasure was seized.
It appears doubtful whether, after all, any of the
assassins have been pardoned.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Charles Bright is lecturing at Mudgee.
A handsome marble monument has been erected
over the remains of Archbishop Polding, in Petersham
cemetery, at a cost of £BOO.
Special prayers have been offered at some of the
Adelaide churches for the recovery of President Gar-
field, who is getting better accordingly.
The new peal of bells purchased by Archbishop
Vaughan for St. Mary’s Cathedral, at a cost of £lOOO,
will arrive in time for the opening of the building.
America has the boss paper of the universe.
The N. Y. Herald was to print the entire revised
edition of the New Testament in its Sunday edition I
Peter Virtue, a notorious street preacher, has
been arrested at Melbourne for insulting behaviour. All
the colonies seem now to object to open-air eccle-
siasticism.
Rev. James Love, of Fortitude Valley, Anglican
Church, Brisbane, an old resident, died very suddenly
on Sunday. The deceased gentleman seceded from the
Presbyterian ministry ten years ago.
Says the Jewish Herald : —“ If a Jew present
any favourable qualities, they are due to his humanity j
if any unfavourable ones, they are the results of his
Judaism. In this way does the world judge of Judaism.”
The Rev. J. H. Gowan, an old resident of
Grafton, died on Sunday, at Palmer’s Island. The de-
ceased gentleman was 81 years of age, and held a charge
as Presbyterian Minister for many years before going
there.
Monte Oliveto Convent, Woollahra, and the new
school erected in connection therewith, were formally
blessed on Sunday by Archbishop Vaughan. There was
a large assemblage of influential Roman Catholic
citizens.
The other day, at Mount Pleasant Wesleyan
Church, a man sang out, “ Hear, hear I” during the
sermon. He was at once told to “ clear, clear," but as
he thereupon asked what he had done, and refused to
go, the congregation had the service closed, and re-
tired. The magistrates before whom the case was
heard, finding that defendant had only uttered the
ejaculation referred to, dismissed the case.
Edwin Cocks, a well-known open-air ecclesiastic,
has been fined 10s., with costs, for riotous conduct in
the Domain on Sunday. He appeared in Court wearing
round his neck a board, whereon were printed the fol-
lowing words“ But we know that the law is good if
a man use it lawfully, knowing this that the law is not
made fer a righteous man but for the lawless and dis-
obedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy
and profane. 1 Timothy i. 8, 9.” Scoffing larrikins
were at the bottom of Mr. Cocks’ troubles.
“ iEgles ” in the Australasian touches up that
holy paper, the Witness, for publishing in its advertis-
ing columns the following unique specimen of blasphemy:
—•* Scripture informs us that the great enemy of man is
the Prince and Power of the Air. His business is to
destroy human life, temporal and eternal, consequently
we find that half the children born into the world die,
and the other half mnst struggle for an existence
agaiust disease, pain, suffering, and agony. This is a
terrible condition of things, but it is all too true. The
Saviour of men came to overcome this, consequently
He promises great rewards to all who co-operate with
Him ; hence, He, the Son of God, holds up the kindly
action of the good Samaritan to a gazing world, and
seals that act as worthy of His commendation. I offer,
then, to Society the Scottish Oils, an agent in harmony
with the Divine purpose. . . . Unquestionably, the
Oil possesses a mysterious and wonderful power over
human suffering. All good things are of God, for He is
the great Parent of all goad.” Price, let us add, halt-a-
crown and upwards.


BRIEF MENTION.
Cocks committed.
The measles are prevalent on the Paterson—
residents.
The Age scarifies the Argus for toadying to
the Princes.
A Maitland baker is the champion light-weight
of the North.
Popular greeting—“ When are yon going to
North Head P”
The coming man—The Chinaman. Sir Henry
sent ns this joke.
A Camnbelltown storekeeper advertises to sell
bread, boots, and bonnets.
At Narandera there are over 20 public houses.
Two or three more are nearly finished.
The local agent of the Union S.S. Co. alleges
that Fort Jackson was named after him.
The bane and the antidote. Hear Dr. Beg in
the morning, and Charles Bright in the evening.
The christening fees in all the Maitland churches
are so high that the marriage market is palpably dull.
One Domain orower has been summoned and
fined. His name was Cocks, and he will crow no more.
They say that Ananias was struck dead. And
yet horse sales are held twice a week at West Maitland.
The Princess Dagtnar has “bust her biler.”
We allude to the Sandhurst mining company of that
name.
There is an East Maitland storekeeper so mean
that he regularly dines off the photograph of a red
herring.
The choir of a certain city church is rapidly
disbanding in consequence of the eccentricities of the
organist.
The Bathurst Free Press says that “ M‘El-
- is the b«au ideal of a coward.” But Jack bit Dan.
on the nose.
“ A ghastly site” is what The Rum calls an
unpleasant spectacle. "A ghastly site” is what we
call The Rum.
M’Elhone says that “ there are squatters who
would have a crucifixion every day in the year for the
sake of a few acres of land."
A new patent havresack has been invented and
issued to the Tasmanian volunteers. It consists simply
of their regulation trousers.
Joy ! D. C. F. Moodie wrote the words for the
cantata at the opening of Adelaide Exhibition. For a
specimen of his style, see our last.
The Rev. John Alexander Dowie, who is leader
of the Adelaide Salvation Army, couldn't save his
deposit at our last general election.
Says an Adelaide paper :—“ The Sydney Bul-
letin is awfulled riled at our success." Not at all.
We never heard of the paper before.
The Mudoes Independent, this week, has a
leader headed " The Epedemio." Wonderful man, the
Giraffe I Even his spelling is original.
Exactly 53 years ago, this month, small-pox was
raging in Sydney. And as Sir Henry Parkes wasn't in
our city then, we wonder how it got here.
A Gulgong alderman, in view of the probable
advent of small-pox, wants the local powder-magazine
fitted up as an hospital for contagious diseases.
So far, the small-pox has killed in Sydney one
person, and the tram six. Tet some of the small-pox is in
quarantine, and none of the Government Juggernaut.
Sir Henry ought to run a tramway towards
quarantine. Then we’d have trams and smallpox
together. Such a mixture should be fatal at holf-o-
mue.
Mr. Otto Hug is the most recent addition to the
" medical clairvoyants" of Sydney. The name, it’s
true, is somewhat hugly, but the sensation is de-
licious.
The quack is the man who affects to despise the
ordinary oonrse of stndy, and obtains his knowledge by
supernatural means—enjoys the divine gift of in-
spiration.
Testimonials are now given to Mayors who have
only been in office a few months. Law I But testi-
monials are sometimes given to spite these who don’t
get 'em.
During a recent visit to Lithgow, the correspon-
dent «f a contemporary was very much struck with the
pnddlers. Now the puddlers are very much struck with
the masters.
The office of the Hobart Mercury was bur-
glared the other night. The Mercury says that the
robber took away a few shillings; but there must be
some mistake about this.
Now that certain politicians have no longer an
interest in the locality of Nelson’s Bay, it is considered
probable that the local telegraph office will be abolished,
and the country saved unnecessary expense.
The Tingha Banner says that the witnesses
that appear in the local police court are " without the
faintest glimmer of the splendid light of truth." The
Banner has evidently heard of the libel law.*
The testimonial which was given by the Chinese
to Dr. Hodson was presented at the suggestion of a
sergeant of Police. Poor Chinkies!—between the land-
kins and the police, they will oast their skins before
long.
The Christian Colonist says that during the
Rev. Matthew Barnett’s tour through the northern
parts of South Australia, the local editor at Terowie
signed the pledge. It’s hard to believe such a state-
ment.
The other day, the Ballarat city council received
a letter of thanks in Japanese from Captain Fukushima,
of the Ruiio, who with his officers was recently enter-
tained in the golden city. The document was " taken
as read."
What many ask is : Why should a proportion of
second-class passengers by early suburban trains be
almost invariably compelled either to stand in the
space between the rows of seats, or to go outside on the
oar platforms ?
A most fascinating girl recently made the round
of Chancery-lane, Melbourne, and, by telling a very
pitiful tale, got a lot of money from the lawyers. This
is the kind of girl who ought to be collector for a
country newspaper.
The Inspector of the Animals’ Protection
Society found 30 fowls on the premises lately occupied
by a small-pox patient. It is said—though we can’t
vouch for the truth of the statement—that the birds
now suffer from chicken-pox.
More shameless log-rolling. The Sydney cor-
poration (or rather the Sydney corruption) have
decided that it is not advisable to stop slaughtering
within the city boundaries. However, we, too, believe
in slaughtering—the aldermen.
A well-known insurance agent, finding business
dull, tried a new plan. He got three friends to go for a
drive. He upset them— and himself—smashed the buggy,
and (of oonrse) prevailed on all of them the very next
day to let him assure their lives.
The editor of the Rockhampton Bulletin is a
literary aesthete. He introduces a new word, "de-
clenature," and he also simperingly says:—“ What are
the news ?” We commend this distinguished litterateur
to the attention of the Morning Rum.
The Tingha Banner simperingly remarks ;
“We had a visit from a few ladies the evening before
our last number was issued, and they expressed them-
selves highly delighted at the art of printing." It’s
surprising how easily pleased some ladies are !
We are told that the moment Sir Henry Parkes
heard that President Garfield had been shot for not
giving a man a billet, he went out of town, and hasn’t
been heard of since. [P.B. He has just been seen
sneaking round the Colonial Secretary’s office.]
A Herald wire says that as Finoham, who was
asked to join the O’Loghlen Ministry, was confined to
bed, and “ physically ’’ incapacitated, he could not
accept. We always thought there was another good
eason why Mr. Finoham shouldn’t be a Minister.
Archbishop Vaughan, whoso “ appeals are
never in vain, is going to “ repeal” the present cracked
clangers of St. Mary’s. Let us hope that the new bells
will be more musical than the present ones, which pre-
vent the tired pressman from sleeping on Sunday
mornings.
Rev. Dr Hughes, who holds that the Chinese
are “ the moat debased people on the face of the earth,"
advertised a lecture for Newtown the other night;
admission, one shilling. But as people can get plenty
of anti-Chinese talk for much less than that, only twenty
persons attended.
Alderman Taylor, ex-Mayor of Paddington, is
one of the most upright and industrious of the muni-
cipal rulers of that Borough. He has faithfully served
the ratepayers for years. He has not, wo believe, been
S resented with a testimonial. What was he wanted to
o that he didn’t do ?
At St. Paul’s, the aristocratic church of Mary-
borough (Q), one of the vestrymen wears spurn when
he takes round the offertory plate. This is no aspursion
•n the youth, but he says he wears them as a hint that
the congregation may dispurse when they have handed
him their three-pennies.
The other day the Launceston paper pointed
out, with pardonable pride, that the local imports for
the half year were in excess of those of Hobart during
the same period. However, the Hobart people have
since pointed out that £37,000 worth of the Launceston
imports consisted of a circus.
A certain Sydney barrister has on the mantel-
piece of his chambers a bust of Demosthenes. The
other day an excitable visitor got eloquent and too close
to the “terracotta" aforesaid, which he nearly cap-
sized. “My dear fellow," said the man of law, " don’t
knock down Demosthenes! "
It cost a Maitland gentleman .£6OO for reporting
to the committee of a charitable institution in the
northern districts what he conoientiously believed to be
an instance of mismanagement. The libel suit never
came before the court, hut the law costs nevertheless
were £6OO. Another Brougham wanted.
A correspondent tells us, whether truly we know
not, that every corporation labourer on his engagement
has to hand to one of bis superior officers £l, and that
every man who drives a horse and cart for the corpora-
tion has to disgorge £llos. Our correspondent wants
to know who ultimately gets these monies ?
Inebriate enters chemist’s shop in William-street,
and asks for “a pint of she-oak.” Assistant states
that the shop is a pharmacy, and not a pub. Infuriated
inebriate: “You be d ; this is a pub. Look at all
the bottlesh on the shelves and in yer windersh. I’m
not to be put off like—hie—that." Finale—the gutter.
A correspondent of the D. T., signing himself
" Howard," eagerly remarks that every Briton in the
colony should rise up in protest against the action of
the inspector who compelled the Chinese to go into
their house at Boyd’s Farm and bring out the small-
pox patient. Now, *• Howard" is the name of the hang,
man.
During the Victorian Governor’s ball in honour
of tke Princes, a 4cwt. lump of plaster fell from a height
of 30 ft. amongst the guests. One gentleman was badly
hurt, and had to be carried out. Surely some Sydney
alderman must have been there I Only wait till we
have a ball in the Town Hall. Won’t the plaster come
down I
The Cumberland Mercury is owned by Mr.
Fuller, and a Mr. Nobbs is understood to be at the
bottom of the Cumberland Independent. The former
journal says that the latter should be called The Nob-
server. The latter retorts that its rival is afraid of its
being a Nobstacle in its way, and asks for a Fuller
explanation.
A certain official.whose screw is .£3oo,made ,£BOO
additional last year. Sir Henry said ho really had no
idea—no, not the slightest—but the official, it is under-
stood,fixed him by maintaining that the work was neces-
sary, and that if ,’he (the official) hadn't done it and
“ annexed" the dollars they would have been pocketed
by some outsider.
The other day a Sydney pawnbroker lent a man
£4 on a bogus diamond, and subsequently had the
deceiver arrested. However, when the matter came
before the court, the prosecutor said he believed that
accused thought the stone genuine; defendant was
therefore discharged. This is the funniest thing we
have heard for a long time.
“The Wrecker” says that when a prisoner at
Berrima becomes refractory, and neither silent system,
gag, nor dark cell can effect a cure, a warder is told off
to sit down by the hardened scoundrel and read aloud
to him the Zig Zag papers. This treatment rarely fails,
but when it does, they show the criminal the Herald’s
weather map. That settles him.
At a Hamilton (Vic.) Council meeting, the other
day, such words as “ liar,” 11 scoundrel,” and “ gutter-
snipe," passed round freely. One councillor threw a
glass of water in the face of another, and threatened to
repeat it, whereupon the assaulted councillor armed
himself with a ruler. This is the kind of meeting which
is congenial to the weary reporter.
The Tamworth News says of its new rival, the
Independent, that it is well edited aud creditably
printed, and that it seems honest and straightforward.
“ Whether three papers can live in Tamworth is a pro-
blem which time will solve; but no doubt the proprietary
of the new paper, which we now welcome, will as readily
as ourselves be prepared to accept “ the survival of the
fittest."
Not content with being told that the Squadron
cannot visit Hobart, the Governor has been requested
to remonstrate with the Earl of Clanwilliam. The
Mercury recommends that the Mayors of Launceston
and Hobart proceed to Melbourne to interview his
Lordship. Te gods and little goddesses 1 To what a
depth of crawling servility and toadyism some people
can descend.
Scene : A newspaper office, up country, an hour
before going to press. Reporter (to editor): “ Very
queer paper this week. Only three local pars.—one
about the weather, one about the pound, and the an-
nouncement of a charity lecture." Editor: " Oh, never
mind—the leader will pull ns through." N.B.—The
leader was on the Habits and Customs of the South
American Ant-eaters.
On a Victorian goldfield a woman of bad character
was once brought up for “ having no visible means of
support.” She was defended by Mr. Zincke, who con-
tended that as from the evidence for the prosecution it
appeared that she kept a house of ill-fame, and had
means of living, she could not be convicted. The objec-
tion was upheld, and the woman discharged. Mr. Zincke
will always keep afloat.
Mr. Frank Woodward has been safely landed in
Bathurst gaol for two years, for issuing fraudulent
cheques. “We are sorry,” says the editor of the
Lithoow Mercury, “to see any man get into such
trouble, but we are glad that Frank has been botthd
up for a lengthy term, as he intended prosecuting us
for reporting his case, and in the present condition of the
Libel Act,this would very likely end in big trouble for us.”
A man, requiring an evening paper, halts before
a group of juvenile newsvendors, and while feeling for
the needful bronze is addressed thus by the urchins :
No. 1: “ Ah. buy it from me, sir,” No. 2 : " No, sir;
please buy from me —I’m hungry." No. 3: “Buy it
from me, sir, please; I’ve got no mother.” No. 4 :
"No, sir, don’t; buy it from me, please; I’ve got a
mother, and I’ve got to keep her." No. 4 wins, hard
held, by several lengths.
Mr. A. Field, of Sydney, has, it seems, satisfac-
factorily settled that, “as the grand gallery of the
Great Pyramid simply represents the Christian Dispen-
sation, it cannot be supposed that it has anything to do
with the end of the world, but only with the end of the
present Dispensation." Having eased the agitated
public mind so far, we would like to ask Mr. Field just
one other question ; What’s a good thing to cure the
jammed tail of a Scotch terrier ?
At Christchurch Police Court, the other day,
there was much trouble, arising out of a row between
two women of the town. Great solicitude was displayed
to keep the names of a couple of witnesses from being
mentioned—but these latter were not called after all.
So frightened was one of the expected publicity that he
threw up his employment, persuaded a confiding friend
to back a bill to the tune of several hundreds, with
which the pair cleared to Sydney.
There are now two ways of obtaining plenty of
room in a crowded ’bus: one is to carry in an ostenta-
tious manner a brown paper parcel, labelled " From On
Chong and Co.—this side up, with care,” and the other
is to enter the oar, and solemnly inform the “ insides "
that you are the party who was killed by the tram on
the previous night. After that you can smoke, and
expectorate on the best Beats, and no one will even ask
if you’ve seen the pretty Princes yet.
At the recent sittings of the Rocky Month
District Court the jury, on “retiring" to consider
their verdict, asked for a room, and were told by the
Sergeant of Police that the only rooms about were his
bedroom, where his wife was lying ill, and a cell. So
they got " a cell ” in a double sense, “ which," remarks
our correspondent, “ shows the necessity for a new
Court House.” However, this isn’t the first time that
a man has thought about a verdict in a cell.
The Municipal Council have complimented Mr.
Seymour on his zeal in thoroughly disinfecting the city,
and thus helping to stamp out small-pox; and so do we.
Now that it’s all over, he has been the man who has done
all the work, and braved all the danger. We don’t in The
Bulletin usually lay on more than a pound of oleomar-
garine per man; but we can, in this instance, oonscien-
tiously give kudos to a highly intelligent and industrious
officer. And what a thing it is to be able to do a thing
conscientiously!
Mr. Abigail dreads the introduction of small-pox
into the Parliamentary chambers. He urges that as the
disease has broken out in the vicinity of the Speaker’s
residence, extra precautions ought to be taken. What
would be gained if sundry members of Parliament were
sent to the Quarantine Ground, and there detained?
The unfortunate English language would be relieved of
tortures, and the characters of honest men would not
be reviled by privileged slanderers; other advantages,
a din.
Oscar Hnghan, being an old and dear friend of
ours, we cannot afford to see him wronged. The Camp-
bklltown Herald prints a poem signed with the name
of the Supreme Court bard, in which is embodied the
couplet—
" Just as vultures pollute the sky
Where reeking masses of carrion lie.”
Oscar couldn't have written this, so we recommend him
to take immediate steps to correct the error. And, if
steps won’t do, let him take a ladder.
Read this, and weep. A woman was brought up
at one of our Police Courts for using uncomplimentary
language to an acquaintance in the street. When the
constable’s evidence had been given and the case for
the defence (which consisted in an unqualified denial
couched in, if anything, stronger language than that
used in the information) had been heard, the chairman
of the Bench said :—“We’ll gie ye seven days, without
the hoption. Me and my brother magistrates is deter-
mined to put down sich vulgarness.'’
At Gawler (S.A.), the other day, a man of 80
married a woman of 40. Someone threw a slipper after
the happy pair, as they were walking home from
church, which, striking the youthful bridegroom on
the back, gave him such a shock that his teeth fell out.
In stooping to pick up his teeth, his wig came off, on
which the bride stood him up against a garden wall,
and, having pieced him together, turned to the laugh-
ing crowd, and acrimoniously remarked, "Many on you
can’t boast even that amount of property 1”
Another “ Literary Assassin ! ” Mr. Charles I.
Watson thus writes in his own paper, the Shoalhaten
News “ ‘ Consistency * has proved himself the literary
assassin that I took him to be. I was not mistaken in
detecting the reputation murderer. I have been long
engaged in newspaper controversies with contemporary
journals, on matters politically, socially, and domesti-
cally." We wonder whether “ literary assassin” means
a murderer of the Queen’s English ? If so But we
won’t speak disrespectfully of " The Father of the
Press.’
Adelaide, the “ city of churches,” has apparently
become more pious than ever. We notice that at “ the
inaugural service ” at the Exhibition there was a roll-
up of 400 volunteers and about half as many “ surpliced
choristers,” and that “the Bishop” starred on the
occasion with “ a special collect ” expressly written by
him for that day only. " Archdeacon Dove and the Rev.
S. Green conducted the service.” Joubert, it seams,
knows his way around, even in Adelaide. What a pity
we didn't think of this dodge in Sydney I By the way,
a neat index to the real principles of the pious 11,000
is contained in the fact that the collection taken up on
the occasion in aid of the local charities realised £9.
A-hem!
Inspector O’Connor’s letter to Mr. Seymour,
Commissioner of Police at Brisbane, written after the
Glenrowan massacre, is a “ corker," and the Board
have recommended that he be not appointed to a posi-
tion in the Victorian police. This is rather hard on
that gentleman after “ sticking so gallantly to the
drain," and we yet believe that Mr. O’Connor would
have proved himself a hero if he had had time. What
this officer wants in order to be drawn out of his shell
is a second siege of Troy, or another Walcheren expedi-
tion. Put him and his black trackers in charge of the
commissariat waggons, and we will engage that they
would never leave their posts, as long as one loaf of
bread or one plug of "tin-tag" remained.
A curious affair has happened in London. An
inspector of police is missing, and so is £l5O. The
theory set forth by the department is that the unfortu-
nate inspector (Todman, by name) has been robbed and
murdered by gipsies. In reference to the matter.
Society says:—“Thera are, however, other obvious
means of accounting for Mr. Tod man’s startling dis-
appearance, and no exertion should be spared towards
discovering and making public the whole particulars of
the singular affair. The police, from the highest to the
lowest, are too fond of keeping things dark when a
member of the force is the chief person concerned."
We wonder what theory our police department would
go in for if one of our own men disappeared at the same
time as £l5O ? Atmospheric evaporation, probably 1
We are told that the other day at Queanbeyan
a boy was fined £2 with the alternative of seyen days for
having called a companion a “ spud,” while a well-con-
nected young man of eight-and-twenty, who pleaded
guilty to having robbed a drunken man of a bank-note,
was liberated on payment of £l, no alternative being
stated by the Bench. We hope that these statements
are untrue. However, somebody in the Crown Law offices
will perhaps see whether they are or not. We are fur-
ther told that robberies from the parson have of late
been rife in Queanbeyan; that a less favoured person
than the man alluded to as having been fined has been
for some weeks past lying in gaol awaiting trial for a
like offence; and that the result of the hearing of a
charge of sheepstealing, heard magisterially in the dis-
trict last week, has created so much astonishment that
Parliament will be invited to look into the matter.
We have received the first number of the
Cumberland Independent, a neatly printed and
vigorously written Parramatta paper, published in
Sydney, and adorned with what is ostensibly the coun-
terfeit presentment of the local Inspector of Nuisances.
The official in question is, we are told, “ an old political
warrior,” and “ glories in the excitement of an elec-
tioneering contest." We trust that all this is true. We
suppose it is, for we have never yet known a Parramatta
paper to tell a lie. Anyhow, the inspector aforesaid is
libellously depicted as an old gentleman with a
“ monkey ’’ shave, a heavy shadow on one side of his
face, and a blaze of glory on the other. He apparently
does not possess an amiable countenance, but this is, no
doubt, owing to some small eccentricity on the part of
the artist or the engraver—or perhaps to the fact that
the vigilant officer who has thus suddenly attained un-
dying fame was looking at a drain or a back-yard when,
in the words of Mr. Weller, he was " took." The Inde-
pendent says that "an irreparable social gap would
appear if the inspector were to leave Parramatta." We
sincerely hope, therefore, that he’ll stay for a long time
at the new Eatanswill—until everyone else dies, or
society becomes less easy to please. On the whole, we
are inclined to the opinion that the Independent has a
future before it. It would astonish ns much were we to
learn that it had one behind. By the way, is the gentle-
man who has thus been honoured by our young con-
temporary the individual who, when asked by the
Parramatta Bench, the other day, if the defendant in a
suit before the Court were a married woman, replied,
“ No, yonr Worship—she never was married—her hus-
band died several years back” ?
The first regularly-appointed hangman in Mel-
bourne was John Harris, who arrived from Sydney in
January, 1817, before which hangings used to be paid for
as piece-work.
Mr. Wolf son, a gentleman with geological
tastes, has found fossil marine shells in a 16£t. well, on
Ben Lomond, 4,500 ft. above sea-level. So says the
Glen Innes Examiner.
By means of the “ detective camera ” a new
feat in photography, photographs may be taken in the
street, or in any other place, without the knowledge of
the individuals being photographed. The apparatus
appears externally like a book.
At the next yearling sales at Randwick, Mr.
Reynolds will have some first-class youngsters, and at
the next Exhibition a first-class muster of young Here-
fords. It will be satisfactory to the general public to
leam that Mr. Reynolds has a large order for the
delivery of his celebrated Herefords in the United
States. The present freight charges per mail are the
only obstacle.
What legal gentlemen call a nice point arose in
Chambers at Christchurch, N.Z., in connection with
the Tararua disaster. It was as to which of the adult
members of a family died first, as upon this rested the
rights of certain relations. The Judge, however, held
that the rule of law laid down at Home in such cases
was the correct One, viz., that it must be taken that the
strongest survived the longest in case of wreck.
The new Czar received lately a missive from
the Nihilist Executive Committee, of which the bearer
was his own son. How it was managed no one can ima-
gine : the child was accompanied by its nurse, an
Englishwoman of tried fidelity, guarded by a detach,
ment of Tcherkesaes. He was approached by no one
during his promenade, no one even spoke to him from
the moment he left his mother’s room till he returned
to it, and yet the Nihilist document was found fastened
to his belt t
The present Lord Lucan, who is chiefly known
as having commanded the cavalry on the day of
the great Balaklava charge, is a marvellous specimen of
the British animal. His father learnt abstinence at the
age of fifty from Lewis Comoro’s curious work, and ate
his twelve daily ounces of food thenceforth with a pair
of scales on the table, to such good purpose that he
lived to the age of seventy-five. But the son has been
abstemious all his life. He holds that every horse that
dies under the ago of twenty-five has been killed, and
that every man who fails to live to eighty has com-
mitted suicide. He eats and drinks so sparingly that
he has always been an object of alarm to his friends and
servants. The only drink, besides milk and water, that
he thoroughly believes in is brandy, which he holds to
be_ sovereign in emergencies, and of which, when cam-
paigning, he has been known to drink half a bottle
without feeling it. But in ordinary times he scarce can
finish two glasses of wine a day. The result is, that he
furnishes in himself the greatest testimony to tem-
perance ever known. He is now over one-and-eighty
years of age, yet he is sound and unblemished, and has
no sign of age about him. Up to a couple of years ago
he had never known a doctor by name or by sight, and
even now he rarely troubles one. His figure—upright as
a dart—is that of a young man of thirty; his eye is
bright, his movements alert and active; he sits a horse
as well as ever he did ; his memory is ready and mar-
vellous ; and he is never known to falter at a date or to
trip over any one of the details of the many good stories
he tells.
THE LATE COLONEL WILSON.


“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify t&at it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Theodors Staiger, analytical
chemist."—Ann.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
EACINQ.
Australian Jockey Club •••••J'jly
Deniliquin July 19> 20-
Maryborough (Q.) July S’ S
Peak Downs Turf dub July 21,22.
V.E.C. Steeplechase Meeting July 23.
Jerilderie Jockey Club Meeting July 27.
Geelong E.C. Winter Meeting July 29.
Hunter Eiver Amateur Turf Club August 1.
Echuca Annual Meeting August 4.
Wyndham (Vic) August 6.
Ballarat T.C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville August 11, 12.
Sydney Tattersall’s August 13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club August 20.
Gympie August 24. 25.
Hawkesbury E.C. Annual August 25, 27.
Parramatta August TrT
A.J.C. Spring Meeting Septembers, 6,8, 10.
Murrurundi September 7.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Northern Jockey Club September 27, 28.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting October 15.
Narrabri OGfcober 18. 19.
Kensington Park ■-•■••-■•■October 22.
Victoria E.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer meeting December.
AQUATICS.
£ Messenger v. S. Mahalm, £4O July 23.
Amateur Sculling Eaoe.— . _ , T . M
Mr. A. Finlayson’s Trophy July 23.
Sydney Eowing Club Eegatta July 30.
Maiden Single Sculls in Skiffs.—
Mr. J. A. Fairfax’s Prize August 6.
Boyd v. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Boss .....August.
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Bush v. Laycock September.
Walker Whisky Trophy September.
N.S.W. Eowing Association Eegatta October 15.
FOOTBALL.
Melbourne v. East Sydney and Sydney (combd.) July 16-
Intercolonial (Sydney) August.
PEDESTEIANISM.
Praoey v Wheatley, 120 yds. £2O, Homebush....July 16.
Collins v. Lambert. 150 yds. £4O. Association
Ground July 16.
Oddfellows’ Handicap, Eichmond... July 16.
Modern High School Athletic Club ..July 22.
COUESING.
Waterloo Cup July 27.
New South Wales Champion Stakes August 5.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) ...August 11,
Hawkesbury C.C. opening August 12, 13.
Victoria Club Amgust 18.
PIGEON FLYING.
Gunnedah Pigeon Match............. July 15,16,
Sydney Homing Pigeon Society, All-comers,
y y Mittagong to Sydney July 28.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC HEMS.
At the first meeting of the Gulgong Gun Club,
Mr. E. Bouse, jun., was victorious.
The Queensland colt, Waterloo, has been largely
supported for the Melbourne Cup.
Mr. Ei. E. Dawbarn has resigned the secretary-
ship of the Queensland Turf Club.
Hearn beat White easily, by six lengths, for the
sculling championship of New Zealand.
Nominations for the Sydney Turf Club Meeting
on September 17 will close on August 8.
The All-aged Stakes of the Springton (S.A.)
Coursing Club, on Friday, was won by Needle.
The stewards of the Parramatta Jockey Club
have decided to give a day’s racing on August 20.
Sir John Morphett has resigned the chairman-
ship of the South Australian Jockey Club Company.
Parramatta y. Eton football clubs, at Parra-
matta, resulted in a win for the local team by six goals.
Parramatta Union v. Pyrmont Acme football
clubs resulted in favour of the Unions by a touch-
down.
The Kensington Park races were postponed on
Saturday owing to the weather at midday being unfa-
vourable.
The annual cricket match between Harrow
School and Eton College was won by Harrow with 112
runs to spare.
At the recent meeting held at 'Adelaide, in
honour of the Princes, the totalisator went wrong
many times during the day.
The liabilities of the Mercantile Eowing Club are
£5l less than at the end of 1880, and the property has
been increased and improved.
The race for Mr. J. E. Fairfax’s prize for
single sculls in skiffs, in connection with the
Mercantile Club, has been fixed for 6bh August.
The great coursing event, the Waterloo Cup,
has been postponed from the 15th to the 27th instant.'
There is some grumbling about the wagers, which are
declared to be still on.
The Balmain Club paid a visit to Goulburn,
and were defeated by the local team by one goal and four
tries to nil. Thallon, of Balmain, sprained his wrist
towards the finish of the match.
Contractor, the trotting stallion, is by Ajax, son
of Eysdyk's Hambletonian, dam Lady Godley, by
Green’s Hambletonian, full brother to Volunteer. The
price paid for him was 6000 dollars.
At the settling of the Eockhampton meeting, on
Saturday, £929 was paid, Mr. John Finnie taking £261
and the Corinthian Cup, Messrs. Kutherford Brothers
£222, Mr. Holdon £129, and Mr. Flynn £ll4.
The committee of the N.S.W. Eowing Associa-
tion have reserved the right to alter the intercolonial
course to the Nepean or other inland river should they
anticipate interference with the race by unlicensed
steamers.
The winner of the Victoria Handicap, on Satur-
day, will have to carry a penalty of 101 b. in the Squadron
Handicap. There will be a sweepstakes of 3 sovs. for
starters in each event of the day, and 1 sov. for each
nomination.
With so many “behinds” to the credit of the
Melbourne Club, the East Sydneys were forced to
admit that the race for victory was a stern chase. It
cannot, however, be said that Sydney is all behind in the
Victorian game.
The New South Wales footballers returned from
Victoria on Thursday last, much pleased with the hos-
pitable way in which they had been treated by the
Victorians, though not adorned with the least particle
of a victorious laurel.
"Monotony of the football match. “Hullo!
want’s the shouting about ? ” “ Another behind for
Melbourne.” “Is that all? I thought Sydney had
got the ball away at last. Let me know when the Vic-
torians are not trying for a goal.”
Over 50 nominations have already been made
for the Gunnedah pigeon match. This event, which
will be one of the biggest ever shot in the colony, is ex-
citing great interest among sportsmen. Laycook and
several of our Sydney cracks have entered.
The following is the order of the programme of
the N.S.W. Eowing Association Eegatta, to take place
on October 15Mlaiden Four-oars, Senior Sculls, and
Championship of Eiver; Junior Sculls, for gold Wal-
tham watch; Public Schools; Senior Eight-oors;
Junior Four-oars.
Hunter Eiver Jockey Club Meeting, West
Maitland, Wednesday, 6th Inst.:—Maiden Plato : Twi-
light 1 Janitor 2, Ninus 3. Flying Handicap : Twilight
1, Comet 2, Hesitation 3. Hack Eaoe: Cinderella 1,
Moonlight 2, Express 3. Forced Handicap : Gleam 1,
Darkle 2, Hesitation 3.
Hosmer and Warren Smith intend visiting
England during the summer to enter for some of the
annual events. Boss is willing to row either Warren
Smith, Hosmer, Courtney or Riley for £lOO or £2OO
a-side. He is anxious to try conclusions with Hanlan,
but can find no backers.
The football match, played under the Eugby
rules, between Newcastle and the University, proved a
very interesting contest, though the result was an nn-
mistakeable win for the champions by two goals and
two tries to nil. The spectators interfered considerably
with the game by persistently encroaching on the play,
ing ground. ,
From Singapore comes the news that Lord
Harry won all before him at the meetings at which he
ran, carrying in some instances 2st. more than any of
his opponents. His owner was so pleased with his vic-
tories that he sent Mr. Clibborn (who purchased the
horse for him) a handsome silver tankard, as a
memento of the brilliant victories gained by the son of
Angler.
In justice to our Eugby players, the non-sport-
ing reading public must be informed that we are playing
the Victorian footballers their own game, and that
victory for Sydney was never expected. The Victorians
do not play under the Eugby rules; so that unless we
mutually assimilate, an Intercolonial match will not
prove any test of the superiority of either colony in
football.
The treasurer of the Laycock Testimonial Fund
Committee had, up to last week, received £394. Further
subscriptions are coming te hand, and it is expected
that the total will reach £5OO. A formal presentation
of the money collected is to be made to Laycock at one
of the theatres on an early date. In addition to the
sum mentioned above, a sum of £369 6s. was collected
to enable “ the bushranger " to meet Hanlan.
The Oddfellows Grand Handicap, to be run for at
Eichmond on Saturday, is as follow: —C. Eoyal, scratch;
E. Weekly, 3 yds; P. Molloy and G. Couch, 4 yds ; H.
Thompson and W. Couzens, 6 yds: J. Kirby and J.
Fitzsimmons, 7 yds; J. Warreck, G. Dickson, and E.
Pearce, 8 yds; H. Sly, 10 yds; C. Hough, 11 yds; Q.
Carter and A. Phillips, 12 yds; A. Johnson and L.
Phipps, 13 yds; and J. Eatcliffe, 15 yds.
A big pigeon-shooting match at Ballarat, during
the race week, is on the tapis. Frizes: £6O, £2O, and
£10; surplus money, if any, to be divided, after pay-
ment of expenses of match. Entrance fee, 3 guineas;
nomination of 2 guineas to be sent to Mr. Lester, jun.,
Lester’s Hotel, on or before Aug. 7. Scoring by points
—three for first barrel, two for second; boundary 80
yards; two traps. A large muster expected.
The probable starters for the amateur sculling
race, on the 23rd instant, for Mr. A. Finlayson’s trophy
(a very handsome gold watch) are Messrs. Lord,
Medcalf, Brett, and Anslow. It was anticipated that
entries might be received from the other colonies, but
up to the present time the contest is to be confined to
local amateur scullers. Brett is the present favorite,
but is handicapped in respect to the heaviness of his
boat.
Monmouth is most in favour for the A.J.C.
Derby and the V.E.C. Derby. Wheatear is fancied by
many for the first event, and Darebin finds great sup-
port for the Victorian Blue Eibbon. Nautilus is backed
heavily for the V.E.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup.
Spinningdale is backed in many doubles for the Sydney
events, and Stratheam gets a share of support. Master
Avenal is fancied for an outside chance, and Carmen’s
name is frequently mentioned.
Since the publication of the mythical Wildner’s
discovery of the fixing in Hanlan's boat, several
theories of automatic propulsion have been put forth,
but we have no recorded instance of the practical ex-
perience of any. The theories look well on paper, but
when tried there will probably be found a screw loose
somewhere, which will upset the whole contrivance.
We still adhere to the opinion that the “ Secret ”
is to be found in the muscles and sinews of the " some-
thing " in the boat.
On May 27 the following well-known athletes
left New York for EnglandL. E. Myers, the champion
runner; Eugene Merrill, of Boston, the champion
walker; Thomas A. M'Ewen, the ex-champion, and
Harry Pike, of the Manhattan Athletic Club. Delegates
from over a dozen clubs bid them farewell. Myers and
Merrill go to England to participate in the English
championship meeting at Birmingham, in June.
M’Ewen will act as a companion, and may also take
part in some of the runs. The two expect to visit Ire-
land, Scotland, Prance, and Germany before returning.
They are the best athletes America has.
The prizes won at the late Woodstock meeting
were as follow :—Woodstock Plate—Mr. Lamb (Locket
and Linnet), £9O and piece of plate value £3O; Mr. W.
E. Hall (Handy Girl), £l2 10s; Mr. Tooth (Terror), £l2
10s. Puppy Stakes —Mr. Tooth (Teddington), £3O;
Mr. Lamb (Lollypop), £l5; Mr. Bladen (Bargo), £lO ;
Mr. Lamb (Lark), £5; Mr. Bladen (Blossom), £5.
Metropolitan Stakes —Mr. Tooth (Temerity), 30
guineas; Mr. Breathour (Latest News), 7 guineas; Mr.
W. E, Hall (Handy Girl), 15 guineas; Mr. E. Stephen
(Queen of the East), 7 guineas. Beaten Stakes —Mr. A.
Town (Money), £10; Mr. Kite (Keith), £4. Total, £239
ss.
The Australian Jockey Club having decided to
hold a day’s racing in honour of the visit of the De.
tached Squadron, have fixed the 16th instant (Saturday)
as the date. The programme will consist or a hurdle
race of 75 sovs.; a six-furlong handicap of 100 sovs.; a
yearling flutter, half-mile, for a cup, value 50 sovs., with
50 sovs. added; a selling race of 75 sovs., one mile; and
the Squadron Handicap, one mile and a. quarter, of 150
sovs. The distances are within thel capabilities of
horses not in heavy training, and, as the prizes are
liberal, good fields should turn out for each event.
Handicaps are to be declared on Thursday, the 14th
instant.
Eockhampton races, July 6 and 7. First Day:
—Maiden Plate: Lady Town 1, Mistletoe 2, Magenta 3.
Sires’ Produce Stakes: Eimmel 1, Spectrum 2, Dandy
3. District Plate: King of the Eing 1, Pirate 2,
Britannia 3. Hurdles Tippoo l, Standard 2. Champagne
Stakes: Mistletoe 1, Tarangamba 2, Lady Bowen 3.
Port Curtis Handicap : Bake 1, Sydney 2. Eclipse 3.
Second day :—Mares’ Produce Stakes : Tarangamba 1,
Eimmel 2. Corinthian Cup: Eclipse 1, Britannia 2,
King of the Eing 3. Publicans' Cup : Southern Star 1,
Brenhilda 2. Eockhampton Stakes: Sydney Bake 1, Nor-
man 2. Wind-up Handicap, Eclipse 1, Britannia 2, King
of the King 3.
The football match between the East Sydney
and the Melbourne Football Clubs on the Association
Ground was simply an exhibition on one side
of the excellence of the Victorian game as played
well, and on the other the inability of the East
Sydney Club to play it. The ball was seldom near
the Victorian goal; the play was kept up within
the East Sydney boundaries, and the spectators were
treated to an exhibition of a number of excellent small
marks made by the Victorians, The victory went to
Melbourne by two goals. We are afraid to mention
the number of “ behinds" because three of our con-
temporaries have differed already.
When the football match waa concluded, on the
Association Ground, on Saturday, a track was prepared
for the 120-yards’ race, between Purcell and Warren,
for £2O aside. There was the usual unnecessary delay
in the appearance of the competitors, and during this
the impatient crowd encroached upon the ground, which
had to be cleared while the men stood at the scratch.
A good start was made, both men keeping well together
for about halt the distance, when Warren seemed to
stumble, a gap of fully a yard and a half becoming at
once discernible. He made a splendid effort to regain
the distance, but;Purcell had too much speed at the
finish, and won a gallant race by about a yard.
Three young men, named Cornelius Sullivan,
Thos. Nestor, and William Ireland, have been sent t«
gaol for a week without the option of paying fines—the
two first-named for engaging in a fight at Eushcutter’s
Bay, on Sunday, 26th June, and Ireland for being present
at the encounter, and acting as a second or bottle-
holder to one of the pugilists. The fight lasted tor
more than an hour. There was no evidence as to the
“ mill ” having been a prize-fight—in fact it appeared
that it was a fair and manly encounter, engaged in for
the settlement of a dispute. Had the pair not fought
at all—had one of the principals been brought up at the
Police Court for, say, kicking the other like a cur, it is
quite probable that the sapient “ beaks " would have
merely fined the offender 20s or 40s. The fact that the
fight occurred on a Sunday has nothing whatever to do
with the matter.
The North Shore Rowing Club is enduring the
existence of a young bear with all its troubles before it.
The Borough Council applied for permission to erect a
boat-shed and lauding stage at the Willonghby-street
wharf, and some of the rate-payers have protested.
There are some people in this world who regard pastime,
in any shape or form, as the abomination of desola-
tion, and take any trouble to give it a “ Knock " when-
ever possible. Land at North Shore may be sub-divided
as infinitesimally as is profitable, single-brick buildings
may be constructed ad infinitum, and not a word is
said; but the moment a neglected part of a wharf is
alienated for public recreation, we hear a lot of gammon
about citizens’ rights and vested interests. Unluckily
for the club, while an apathetic public looks with favour
upon their undertaking, these objectors know best how
to represent grievances.
A muff football match was played on Moore
Park on Friday afternoon (after office hours, of course),
between teams from the Lands and Conditional Sales
Departments. The game was to be played under Eugby
rules, but as about six out of the thirty under-
stood the game, off side was the order of the day.
The game was so even that nothing was scored on either
side, but opportunities were not wanting for the display
of individual prowess. Jaoky Callacher went through
feats of ground and lofty tumbling that would have
broken the bones of an ordinary player, and Jem Croft
cleared all before him. Denny Kelly, feeling that dis-
cretion was the better part of valour, kept out of the
scrimmages ; Joe Donovan’s get-up was fierce, but his
play was mild; and when Jem Tooher got the ball, the
cry was fawjh-a-hallaqh. There were no casualties worth
recording, except that Tooher hurt his arm and Jem
Croft lost a new hat.
There were several things done on Saturday by
the Victorians in the football match that we should call
sharp practice were the Southerners not the exponents
of their own game, and were we not better acquainted
with the rules than with the practice of Victorian
footballing. We cannot compliment the Victoriaus
upon their "place-kicking;" half of the "behinds”
which were scored by them would have been goals if
such Eugby players as Burkitt, Jones, Eaper, or
Thallon had been behind the “ bladder.” But the
Melbourne Club has given us an opportunity of witness-
ing the Victorian game played well as compared with
the Eugby game, which is as well played here, and wo
unhesitatingly confess that though each game has its
many good individual points, the “ small ‘ marks' ” and
"sneaking” of the Victorian game make it very inter-
esting to a public tired of the monotonous " scrim-
mages ” of the Eugby game.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Hanlan declines to row anywhere else but on
Toronto Bay, but says that if Boss will go there he will
give $2OOO and find an unknown who, with himself and
Boss, will put up $lOOO each, making a purse of $5OOO
for the best man in the party A boating club has
been formed at Parramatta. Captain, Mr. Malcolm M.
Dennis; Treasurer, Mr. E. N. Murray; Secretary, Mr.
Charles Gaud Hanlan and his brother have fallen
out, in consequence, it is said, of the champion having
determined to give Fred Plaisted, the sculler, the man-
agement of his new hotel John Keen easily defeated
A. Evans (1 m. 45 secs, start) in a 10-mile bicycle race
at the Crystal Palace on April 14. Time, 33 m. 59 secs.
Near Mount Gambier, the other day, a large stag
was run down by dogs. It weighed, when dressed,
359 lb., so that with skin and head it must have scaled
fully 400 lb. It is thought to have come from the
Wilson Estate in the Grampians According to the
Sporting Live, Trickett's victories over Kirby were in
part attributable to his (the Australian's) having had
his skiff fitted with a “ fin," a thin plate of copper 4 in.
or sin. wide and about a foot long, tacked to the bottom
of the boat in a line with the keel, with a view of pre-
venting the craft from being twisted about by the
wind Daring his visit to America, Trickett will be
the guest of Charles Seed, at whose invitation he went
over Mr. Ford, of Berry’s Bay, has successfully cast
a keel of 8 tons—by several tons the heaviest in the
colonies—for the yacht ho is building for Mr. E. Knox.
Lord Wilton ordered his horse Hippias, who has
won so many races, to be shot, as he was useless, and
the carcass was buried in the park of Egerton Lodge.
This is better than selling a discarded racer for a paltry
sum into the slavery of a circus or cab-rank, but it’s
not half so good as pensioning off one’s trusty old
servant and letting him spend the rest of his days in
peace It appears that Tom Cannon, the English
light-weight jockey, refused an offer of £1250 per
annum from James E. Keene to act as the latter’s
Erivate trainer Mr. P. Stubley, the lucky Queens-
ind reefer, has by wire asked Mr. Yuille, of Melbourne,
to procure him some English thoroughbred mares.
Mr. Stubley, says the Australasian, has determined
to spend a large sum in imported stock “Blower”
Brown, and young Hutchins, the boy champion of
England, are on their way to give colonial athletes a
treat. The former won the six days’ championship of
England two years ago, coverings 33 miles, and absolutely
running the last two miles—a feat which, after a hard
week’s work, is altogether unprecedented; while the
wonderful little fellow Hutchins, who is only 14 years
of age, “ has won an armful of silver cups," and chal-
lenged any boy in the world his own age to walk from
half-a-mile to twenty miles for any sum up to £5OO. The
pair aren’t likely to meet with any opposition here
At Parramatta, on Saturday, Q. Drury’s black mare
trotted a mare belonging to Mr. Tucker, Drury laying
£3O to £2O. The eleven miles were covered in 40 min.,
Drury’s nag winning easily. A lot of money changed
hands A pigeon-flying match from Singleton to New-
castle, 48 miles, was won by Mr. Forrester’s Antwerp
pigeon “Eocket.” which did the distance in the bad
time of two hours. The weather was very foggy
Ike Smith beat Joe Acton in a Lancashire wrestling
match, best of throe falls, for the 1401 b. championship
(Acton staking £lOO to £7O), at the Larkill Grounds,
Farnsworth, April 30. Acton won first fall in eight
minutes; Smith took the second in eight minates, and
the third in two-and-a-half minutes. About 6000 were
present, and Acton was heavily backed At Tingha,
on 2nd instant, two local peds., Collins and Skinner, ran
150 yards for £lO. There was a dead heat, and in the
run-off Skinner barely won. Collins tripped and lost
ground in the second spurt The bowling contest, for
a trophy presented by Mr. J. Toohey, resulted on
F.riday morning in a victory for Mr. By an. Mr. Burkitt
was his opponent, and an exciting match was played,
the scores being—Mr. Eyan 31; Mr. Burkitt 30 The
football match, Hotham v. South Tasmania, resulted in
a victory for the latter by three goals to two Cunliffe
is training Hopbine for the Waterloo Cup, at Kew
The imported trotting horse, Contractor, is quartered
at Eandwick for the rest of the season A rowing club
is to be established at Bourke, on the Upper Darling.
At Moore Park, on Saturday, the Union F.C. beat
the 2nd Orientals by three tries and two forces to one
try Cockflghting on Saturday afternoon is the
favourite West Dubbo sport. Windsor birds at the top
of the tree.
Gossips listen but to betray, and speak but to
deceive. %
The World’s Fair project at New York has been
definitely abandoned.
A gigantic statue of Leif, the bold Norseman
who discovered North America, is to be erected before
the Boston Museum of Art.
The University Musical Society will give a con-
cert during the visit of the Princes to Sydney. Several
other societies will be asked to give their assistance.
The recent shocking steamboat disaster in
Canada by which so many lives were lost, appears to
be traceable to the reckless greed displayed by the ship-
owners in overcrowding their vessel.
At Nottingdale, England, on April 8, an un-
married woman who had given birth to a child, choked
the infant, hacked it into 58 pieces with a table-knife,
and threw it into a drain. She has since fully con-
fessed.
FASHIONS.
(BY THE MAN MILINER.)
The new parasols are either shaded or plaids.
Damson and purple pansy are the newest tints.
Manilla straw bonnets are in great demand at
home.
Ball dresses are to be almost covered with
flowers.
Birds of Paradise are again in favour for
millinery.
Bonnets composed of shaded violets are new
and elegant.
Buckles in Parisian paste, set in silver, are used
on evening dresses.
Pale pink and deep crimson harmonise well
together for evening.
Bonnet strings are composed of watered, shaded
satin ribbons in broad widths.
Crushed roses of pink and crimson will be worn
upon Spring hats and bonnets.
The flowing “angel” sleeves, now in vogue in
Paris, are fast gaining favour in Loudon.
Turkeys’ claws and poodles’ faces are found
amongst the new ornaments for millinery.
Queen Victoria’s effort to revive the one-
buttened glove has been a complete failure.
Short dresses, flounced to the waist, are a
novelty much in favour in Paris and London.
Green cream is a new tint, which is a cool
delightful colour, recalling the foam of green waves.
Passementerie and fringes in solid cut steel
beads are the newest trimmings for black satin dresses.
In Paris a dress trimmed with black Spanish
lace woven with gold is thought elegant and in the best
taste.
The most fashionable rings are of hammered
gold made in pliable strips, and wound around the
finger.
Some of the new straw bonnets are wonderfully
light and airy, and are studded with pearls or out jet
beads.
In nothing do Parisennes show their good taste
more conspicuously than in their decided preference
for small bonnets.
Some of the new bonnets imported this month
show a great deal of Tuscan braidwork of deep yellow
and much open lace straw.
Spring bonnets are to be composed of all
flowers. Some are seen made of moss, in which are
embedded little birds with brilliant feathers.
Fashionable shoemakers are advocating the re-
vival of the sandal slipper. Heels, it is thought, will
be abolished. What if we were now to go back to the
Greek sandal ?
Evening dresses are, as a rule, monochrome; a
variety of effects being produced by the different
materials employed—such as brocades, plain silks and
satin and soft plush.
There is an attempt to revive crinoline. Bustles
are much in vogue in Paris, and some of the fashionable
dressmakers are even beginning to add two rows of
steel to the back of these articles.
A new pattern on a satin foundation is in French
called “the confused picture gallery." It is an in.
describable mass of small falling pictures. A border in
the same design is used as a trimming.
The latest novelty for evening wear is a mag-
nificent satin, covered with Vesuvius beads of a flue
quality, whose dazzling rays give the material the
effect of being covered with precious stones.
In the matter of chapeaux, the Colombine capote
is the favourite for the time being. It is made of light
gold plush, with wide strings of white lace and a small
dove with half open wings placed at the side.
It spite of its well-known habits of retirement,
the sage, quiet owl has suddenly been thrust into
popular favour, and is now to be seen on muffs,
chapeaux, buttons, solitaires for cuffs, and ear-rings,
etc.
We are told in one of the last Parisian fashion
books that the colours now decidedly d la mode for the
hair, are the golden shades known as cheveux de la reine,
Venetian, comet, and rayon de lune, which vie with
raven’s wing or jet black.
Monsquetaire gloves and plush muffs, decorated
with flowers, were given to the bridemaids at an
English wedding by the bridegroom. White satin
fans, and bouquets and pearls and gold bracelets, have
also been among the taxes recently levied on men who
marry.
The greatest novelty last winter in Paris waa
the Introduction of tight-plush drawers for ladies—who
will not wear thick and heavy skirts to spoil the out-
lines of their figures. These new drawers fit as closely
as tights; they are trimmed with lace at the knees.
Other tight drawers are made of quilted satin.
Satin is taking ample revenge for the long
eclipse faille caused it to suffer, and, having once been
given up for it, now throws it back completely in the
shade. Satin appears in every possible style. There
are brilliant satin, duller satin (called merveillenx, of
softer texture and more akin to surah or Indian silk),
brocaded satin, damasse satin, and satin with velvet
patterns.
At an aesthetic “ tea ” recently given in London,
flowers were seen on all the dresses in great profusion.
Bouquets were worn at the throat, in the hair, hanging
from the arm and belt, and also in long garlands and
wreaths—starting sometimes from the left shoulder and
reaching to the foot of the train. Those most worn by
lovers of the fine arts are sun-flowers, tiger-lilies, pond
flowers, blossoms, cabbage-roses, baby-roses, azaleas,
and iris.
Fancy reticules, now much used in Paris and
London, are variously decorated with all kinds of vivid
colored feathers, birds’ breasts and heads, iridescent
metallic beads, black Bpanish lace heavily jetted and
brightened by butterfly bows of scarlet satin ribbon.
Some are seen covered with enamelled spiders, bugs,
reptiles, and many other creeping, crawling creatures,
whose life-like positions on the bag give the owner the
appearance of a feminine naturalist on her way home
from a successful journey after rare specimens.
Hats are to be larger than ever before, and
promise to reach greater proportions this coming
season. Some new ones measure nearly a yard and a
half in circumference. Many of them will be bent
irregularly, and there will be more trimmings under the
brim than upon the crown of the hat. Wreaths of
wild roses, wall flowers, apple blossoms, and even long
ostrich plumes will be used to fill in the vast caverns
underneath the brims ef these startling head-dresses.
All the great masters painted “ Beauties” in immense
hats. There is nothing more modest or becoming
than the real Eubens shape; it suits every style of
face.
A New York belle wore a pretty ball-room
veess lately. It had a court train formed of pearl white
drlvet. Around the edge was a pleating of satin, and
above it commenced the poetry of the design. A per-
fect picture of art greeted the eye—lilies with leaves
traced in seed pearls. The stamens were wrought in
glittering bugles; the three-celled ovary of every
flower was composed of tiny beads, closely clustered,
and gracefully intermingled was rare old point. The
front was a succession of satin waves, with which there
waa blended the loveliness of exotics of scarlet hue,
sending their - rosy reflections in generous profusion
over the shimmer of the satin and creating a soft bluish
hue that mounted to the corsage. The entire basque
was studded with pearls, forming a pattern of hot-
house white daisies, the centres of which were em-
broidered in yellow floss.
774 visitors at the Museum on Sunday. Wet
day.
A Fontaine locomotive, drawing two cars con-
taining W. H. Vanderbilt and a party of railroad men,
made the best speed on record recently in running from
Amherst burg to St. Thomas, on the Canada southern
roid. 111 mhes in 98 minutes.
5
THE BULLETIN.
July 16. 1881.


Tailors, Drapen
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOU
358, 360, 362, George
OPENING NEW G
for
WINTER SEAS'
EVERY DAY DURING T 3
FIRST GENERAL I
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESS
FOR THE WINTER i
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE CAME
DOVER HOMESPUN INDR
ELASTIC BIEGE ANGO
KASQHER CASHMERE JERSI
STOCKINGETTE VALP
AND A LARGE ASSORTME
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—
cases of very
ERY, someth;
handsome, din
houses in Lond
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR
SILK, Rich V
to 24 inch wide
4s 6d, 5s Sd, 6a
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES.
SILKS, in a raj
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 8
6s lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and str
for wear, and i
BLACK VELVI
NAUCUNIUM.f
every yard sta
BLACK SATIN
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d,
are light and s
under usual
SILK VELVI
every shade ol
and Brocaded
Floral Designs
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPAR'
OPENED a
MENT of al
LACES in evi
imitation, Emb
Ruffling, Modi
Cuffs, Collars
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS w
FROM DRESf
be no deoept
washed. Lad
i Sheetings jjoo(
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-i:
inch. Is 6d to 2
to 3s. Americi
& Horrocks' C.
QUILTS, fron
prices. Coloi
QUILTS, 2i lo
COVERS at al!
the yard, 27 an
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our studj
this class of
character. By
year after yeai
of FIRST-CLA
are now showi
ment of of DA
NAPKINS, bol
Damask. Thei
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We i
MASK CLOT
425; 5-8 NAPE
3-4 NAPKINf
29s 6d; DA
round or squar
DAMASK. 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to I
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW LIN
wide ; WH ]
TOWELS, fro
cording to siz'
ISH TOWELS
Tailors, Draper
161
KING STREE
(Near Tramwaj
MADAME WEIG
PAPER PATTERNS of DRESSE
cut in different sizes for Ladii
nished with illustrations and c
up. Sold at prices ranging frc
styles monthly in WEIGEI
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by
annum, post free. Catalogs
Patterns sent to any part of th
of price and measure. Postage
ADDRESS:
MADAME WE!
181 KING STRE:
SYDNEY.
JJ AV E YOU
TO
R. MORPH
233 Pitt Str
E
LISE’S PAPER CU r
All communications to be
ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET,
Six doors from Qeorgi
Orders for Patterns cannot be
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patten
style, cut, and finish, being modellee
Fashions, and are always sent pi
receipt of stamps or money order.
44 TT IS A WELL-KNOW
JL for Household or Famil
Hordern’s’* Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield H ' hai
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Si
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOC
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES A
s
Business Annotate
Llegal.J
HORTEE, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOI
69 CASTLEREAQH STREI
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. i
SOLICITOR, has coj
practice of his profession, ai
PITT-STREET, opposite
News Office.
'W mac
PORTRAIT PAL
225 BOURKE STREET, WOO
D
R. STANICH, the emine
returned from his tour
and will commence the
fession, in Sydney, in
days.
QHEAPEST AND
BES
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA*
HAT STREET, HAYTV
TEA, Is per It
Other articles equally ohe
rtAnrl; mnVod on A frAA
Easiness Annoum
I HAVE this day commenc
Stock and Share Broker, an
undertake any commissions eithe
chase of shares that may be entrui
Eeferences :
Hon. 8. D. Gordon,
Hon. E. Flood, M.L,
Hon. li. W. Levy, K
Bichard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-sti
JQ A Y I D 1
14, Hunter-street, S
SADDLER AND HAENI
By special appoint:
To his Eoyal Highness the Dnk
Excellency the Eight Hon. t
His Excellency Sir Hercules i
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.Q,
Best Coursing Material of Newe
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentle:
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 187 C
ASTERN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND A 1
strongly recommend their
2s. TEA,
which will bo found equal to an;
much higher pri
*24 GEORGE S
A.
HAYMAEKEI
G. C H U R C
147 YORK STB
Opposite the Marl
IMPORTER AND MANUF.
Coffee, Peppers, Spi
CLEVELAND MILLS, SU
CHEAPEST HOUSE I
for Liverpool and Black Hor
Choicest Sage and Majoram on 1
680,000 AMERICAN SB
Just arrived, all e
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Fork Sausage skins, splendid sa
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per I
Canterbury.
NOWLAI
sa
mm
LEAVE
GUNNED \H every THURSDAY
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY a
COONABARABRAN.
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NAER
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY,
SATURDAY for WEE WAA,
Tailors, Drapers, fto.
I N T E E
GOODS.
We have at present a nice supply of the following
seasonable goods:—
Girl’s Waterproofs and Long Jackets
„ Hosiery, Gloves and Wool Goods
Ladies' Long Jackets and Waterproofs
Ladies’ Skirts—Felt, Alpacca, & Satin Quilted
Ladies’ Hosiery, Gloves, and Wool Goods
Ladies' Lined Kid Gloves —Fur tops with Spring
Our own Registered Glove
2 Button 4 Button 6 Button
In the Shop 2/9 3/9 4/9
Posted 3/- 4/- 5/-
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just below Liverpool-street.
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, QEOEOE-STREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS. NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED,
JJLANKETS. I
“ FIRST SHIPMENT OF
now opened
EDWARD HOED
668 BRICKFIELD HI!
The BEST VALUE ever rec
lian market. SNOW WHITE,
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth i
“ Competition de
MERICAN CUT PA3
MADAME DBM
Perfect Fittii
Newest styles every mail from
Full directions and illustrations ’
MADAME DEMOEEST’S pub
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What i
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gr
MISS LOUISA
87 Kino Street, Sydney (two d(
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-s
rj. EO. L. LI
HIGH-CLASS CASH
S BRIDGE STREET
LATE
CUTTER TO E. M:
Begs to inform his friends and t
opened the above premises
gentlemen who wish to have
manship, &e., at a low price f<
Gentlemen requiring this with V
should give me a trial.
Country orders prompts
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM G
R. C. HA(
FASHION AB
TAILORING ESTAI
127 KING STR
< . .
Cannot Cannot
be be
Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, am
To effectually stop the extorti
tised in the way of clothing E.
pure West of England and Sootcb
In Five-button sac pattern si
Canadian Tweed Suits, to
Homespun Tweed Suits, t
West of England, Tweed
TROUSERS, TROUSERS
West of England Tweed Trousers
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Order,
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order
N.B. —Patterns, with self-meas
post free to all parts of the colonj
Note the Addre


Hotels, See.
OLD EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS,
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands j cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIEE, Proprietor.
B
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS. 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B. —Cockbum’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &o.
C.
W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
B
OBERT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUARTER CASKS,
AND CASE.
AGENT—GEORGE LLOYD,
BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.'s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
mar Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
Royal exchange dining rooms,
KING & GEORGE STREETS.
A. A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.R.H, the Prince of Wales and Suite,
PROPRIETOR OF THE ABOVE ROOMS,
Begs to intimate that he is now supplying
THE BEST TABLE D'HOTE A-LA-RUSSE
From 12 to 3 p.m. for Is fid.
The best INDIAN CURRY, by a NATIVE COOK on
the premises. Suppers ready, hot and cold, from Bto
12 p.m. Separate room for ladies. Arrangements
made for BALLS. PICNICS, and PARTIES, on most
reasonable terms. Rooms vacant for gentlemen.
Your patronage is respectfully solicited.
A, A. WEBB.
ROYAL EXCHANGE DINING ROOMS,
King and George streets, Sydney.
THE
TAEPING MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made up into lib and half lb packets, and packed
in the Chiua Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places :
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M'Donald, William-street, Woolloomooloo
J. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M'Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Riley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C,, Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., corner of Crown and Devonshire-
streets
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J, Dive, jkinr., 99 George-street
E. Dnnne, corner of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M'Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo
J. M'Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Goinery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Redfem
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
R. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D, L. Frazer, Newtown.
AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &0., at lowest rates.
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni catering company
Or PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior “ Aloock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
(Jity (Catering {Jompany,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cof6, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and KESTAUKANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or inspedient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(J HA S. E. gMI T H,
MANAGER.
OLEY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BRIDGE STREET,
(Opposite Bulletin Office.)
E. W. FOLEY, PROPRIETOR.
BOARD AND RESIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIARDS.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Rotax.
-
CL
OT
EBAC
MU
m
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS, FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOE TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS
DSAFKLASF
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
wor'-B
The Name of M. MOSS & 00.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SOnTaND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
Ib on every Genuine Bottle.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
-
O B.N
■bORKs
XiORWf;
asown?
yxe^tfci)
tUntuJ
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in .small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOEj SON,IND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
R
OSS AND CLINCH.
(Late Collins and Eoach),
SEATED WATEE
AND
COEDIAL MANUFACTUEEES,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
COEDIALS OF ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDEESS:—
ROSS AND CLINCH,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEEE BOTTLEES,
105 PITT STEEET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK.
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
aLBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUAEIE WINES.
Burgundy.
JjIALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Centeal Depot:
91 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
Vinetaed:
MUEEAY EIVEE VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES,
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris ~ 1864
Vienna ~ 1873
Philadelphia ~ ... 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Queensland, and 10 FIEST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. EED.
Eeisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
JUNIPEE TEEE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
&
sS
&
&
SS
$
&4g
i
1
SDPERIOE to SCHNAPPS, at half the priced
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—CHAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Deg
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J, E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
OK MAR
m
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
fs selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ing of the celebrated firm of AETHUE GUINNESS
*nd CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Try h. hookings & co.’s
Pure Old Australian Wines.
PITT STREET, Opposite City Bank.
ay?
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STREET (first floor),
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons,
Hours—9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
security, payable by instalments, as follows:
£lO by weekly instalments of ... £0 6 0
15 0 6
20 0 10 6
25 0 12 6
30 10 0
50 15 0
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not able to transact business during the
day, the offices will be open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, first floor,
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONEY LENT on mortgage of properties, in sums
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street Hay-
market.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is Invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Siamese Twins have been outdone by an
Italian couple, Tocci by name, who are at present ex-
hibiting at Vienna ft most remarkable specimen of their
progeny—a pair of twins, named Jacob and Baptiste.
These boys are grown together from the sixth rib down-
ward, and have bnt one abdomen and two feet. The
upper part of the body is completely developed in each.
Their intellectual faculties nre of a normal character.
Each child thinks, speaks, sleeps, eats, and drinks inde-
pendently of the other. This independence goes so far
as to admit of an indisposition of the one without in the
least affecting the other. They are over three years old,
in perfect health, and seemingly in excellent spirits......
Much sympathy is expressed for Billy Sweatnam, the
negro comedian who, through the insolvency of Al.
Hayman (under engagement to whom he came to Aus-
tralia), has lost £412 An Auckland paper says that
Jenny Watt-Tanner is as beautiful as ever, and not a
pound lighter. She carries embonpoint more gracefully
than any other woman on the stage Lydia Thompson
has met with a “ throat accident’* that will prevent her
singing for a considerable time We read that
Baker and Farron will begin their trip around the
world in August, with Harry ahead There
was recently a double marriage in a side-show at Gal-
veston. The giant wedded the fat woman, and the living
skeleton became the husband of the Circassian girl. In
celebration of the happy event, a banquet was given in
the tent to employes of the circus Al. Hayman denies
that he ever contracted debts which his partner, His-
cooks. should have been made aware of. He also denies
that Hiscoeks was entitled to share in the profits of
Pomeroy’s engagement Beaumont Bead is again in
Sydney, and is open for engagement. By the way, had
Beaumont (who, wo are glad to say, has always been
provident) not dipped into Turkish bonds, he’d pro-
bably be entertaining the Princes on their arrival
Modjeska has been visiting the London insane asylums,
to prosecute her studies of lunacy On the night of
23rd May, a man called at the residence of Mrs. Fanny
Mordannt, the actress, Brooklyn, and threw a handful
of red pepper in her eyes. A sergeant of police was
arrested for the offence, but subsequently discharged.
Bose Coglan recently appeared at a benefit matinee,
at Wallack’s, as the consumptive Camille. When we
knew Bose she was rather stout, and used to consume
pork chops The best disguised men in this country
are the white men who cork themselves for negro min-
strels. Their looks average, perhaps, 40 years apiece,
and yet they are two or three thousand years of age.
One of them will say, “Johnny, give us the last joke
you heard.” Then Johnny will tell a story at least two
thousand years old—the last story he heard Cole was
doing big business at ’Frisco when the last boat left.
M'Cullough and Herman Vezin, it was stated, would
play against Booth and Irving Luscombe Searrell,
who went to ’Frisco by the City of Sydney, was, we
hear, immediately engaged by the proprietors of the
Tivoli, to produce at that theatre “The Fakir of
Travancore,” which was in rehearsal when the mail left.
Luscombe, it appears, had already obtained a New
York engagement. His numerous Australian friends
will be glad to hear that he is getting along During
the performance of “ The Pirates of Penzance ” at
Rockhampton, the other night, a seaman belonging to
H.M.S. Kenard was in the dress circle. Being top-
heavy, he fell. After Jack had knocked over a China-
man, who tried to show fight, Liddy interfered, and got
him put out. The row stopped the play for 20 minutes.
The reason the party of Madame Cora Bush —that
Cora whom we all know so well—had to leave the dia-
mond fields of Africa so suddenly has never been given
until now. The company (among them the late Alice
Wren) attended a barbecue given by one of the native
princes. During the day the prince fell desperately in
love with Alice, who was a petite blonde, and sent an
ambassador and interpreter to negotiate with Mr. Bush
for the little lady. The prince offered 40 head of cattle
for Alice, which was of course rejected. Then the per-
secutions commenced, and lasted until they reached
Natal. From thence they stole away in the night, and,
by pledging the captain of the little sloop they got
aboard of to secresy, they managed to escape to Port
Elizabeth with their lives When Dion Boucicault
was leaving New York for Europe lately he was served
with a writ for alimony by Mrs. 8., but he, in company
with Fawcett Bowe and Mrs. Scott-Siddons, sought the
eeclusion which a cabin grants from legal cousins,
sisters, and aunts, and sailed for the ocean blue re-
joicingly The London Court Journal says that
Henry Irving has declined £20,000 and all expenses paid
for a seven months’ American tour The body of
Rubinstein and that of a Bussian baroness were sent
to Eussia by the same train. At Berlin, it is taid, the
coffins were accidently exchanged, and while tbe groat
pianist was quietly interred at Biga, the corpse of the
unknown baroness was at Moscow given the honours
that should have been Eubinstein’s Some negro
amateurs played “ Eobert Macaire " recently in Borne,
Ga., and reserved all the best orchestra chairs for the
elite of local negrodom. The white trash were enter-
tained with back seats Paris is agitated about the
success of a new tenor named Provost, who mode his
debut on the operatic stage in “ II Trovatore ” at the
opening of the Opera Popnlaire. He was formerly a
. working man and had previously sung only in the Music
Halls The Oliver-Sea grave company did intend play-
ing “ Othello ” at Qympie, the leading part being under-
taken by a well-known amateur; however, as the ward-
robe didn't arrive in time Desdemona wasn’t smothered.
Maggie Oliver says that the only occasion on which
she was ever really frightened in her life was when she
descended the now celebrated No. 1 North Phoenix mine
at Gympie Gympie is blessed with amateur actors.
A short while since one played Black Cloud in “ Across
the Continent.” The part as originally written did not
suit him. What he proposed to do was to come out
with something original, as follows: “ Baal Black
Cloud like him white fellow. Baal like him rum, my
word I Cobbon budgeree that fellow.” As this was
utterred with a broad Scotch accent Mr. Black Cloud
resembled nothing so much as he did a Scotch squatter
who had gone wild and joined the niggers....... The Aus-
trian band, when last mail left, were playing at Gympie
to crowded houses. They had a most disastrous trip
from Maryborough. They had hired three conveyances,
the driver of one of which managed, after fetching his
passengers through a couple of creeks and over a few
fogs, to land each of bis constituents on the brood of
his back in the “wild, wild bush." The Austrian
band say they are delighted with the flavor of Yengarie
rum Last Tuesday and Wednesday the Tamworth
A. D. Club gave a “Grand Ethiopian Entertainment,”
and fairly eclipsed all former efforts. The pathetic
ballads, a correspondent tells ns, were excruciatingly
funny, and the corner business was as laughable as a
pauper’s funeral. But though the songs, (with two ex-
ceptions), the farces and stump speech, were pro-
nounced failures, the spotless white shirts and black
dress coats of the performers looked beautiful, and the
effect of burnt cork on their faces was “quite too
awfully lovely.” Wash me to-night, mothah 1 In the
first act of “Pinafore” Mies Alice Bees wears a short
costume of navy and pale blue satin made en panel of
alternate colours, shoes, and stockings and sailor hat
lined with pale blue. Second dress —white satin robe,
train ornamented with bouquets of white flowers, front
gaging and kiltings edged with lace, wreath of orange
blossoms An American sensational acrobatic troupe
is coming out under engagement to Harry Lyons’
“Tourists Party" now in N.Z Kate Foley is in
California, going east Johnny Qeurlay has made an
immense hit in America as Sir Eowland Macassar in
“ The Blooming Babes in the Wood.” At latest dates
he was in Philadelphia and was a great favourite every-
where Mr. John Dewhurst, the English tragedian,
opens at the Melbourne Eoyal on 16th inst. He is
highly spoken of by the English press Clarence
Holt, Bland's father, was at latest dates at Belfast with
“New Babylon.” Mrs. Scott-Siddons enters on a
three months’ occupancy of the Haymarket, London,
about the first week in (September. She was a fellow-
passenger of Boucicault from America The Mendels-
sohn Club, now in California, intend visiting Australia.
Dolores Drummond (Dolly Green) is travelling in
the English provinces with the “ Jo ” Company
When the children at the Melbourne Bijou played Pina-
fore, they numbered 104, varying in ages from 3 to 13.
That was barely a year ago. The Juvenile Tambour
Majors are now, according to the managers, all over 13
ifears of age The Lynch Bellringers were billed to
app mr at Tingha on Tuesday night Biccardi writes
to say that he isn’t going to join Carey’s “Pirates.”
Bondmann, at latest, was at New Plymouth, and
meant going to Nelson At Dunedin, the other night,
Biccardi being indisposed, the First Lord was taken by
Mr. Barry O’Neill who (says a local critic) can only be
credited with having made everybody —audience, per-
formers, and stage hands—laugh consumedly. It was
Tommy Dodd dressed up in official costume The
Erapsons have been performing at Tinonee and Port
Macquarie The number of the Auckland Observer
just to hand contains a likeness of Miss Marston Leigh.
Prom it we gather that this celebrated actress is a
Murray aboriginal with a violent fancy for stewed grubs
and baked lizards The News says that the members
of the "Tambour-Major” corps dramatique “ are so well
acquainted with what they have to say and sing, and
they say and sing what they have to say and sing so
satisfactorily that the public,” &c. You can’t get better
praise than this F. E. Hiscocks writes a long letter
to the Melbourne Herald of 9th July on the subject
of his partnership dispute wirh Mr, Hayman. Owing
to the theatre not being available on any suitable day,
the proposal to give Mrs. Walter Hill a farewell benefit,
at Christchurch, before her departure to Sydney, had
been abandoned, A testimonial wns to be presented
instead. Even Wilhelmj is not without his “ carking
cares.” The rash man travels with two prima donnas,
who both want to sing the same songs. Result—misery
and ‘‘ructions."
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The production of “ The Lady of Lyons on
Friday last, at the Queen’s Theatre, was of some inter-
est to playgoers, inasmuch as the performance of Lord
Lytton's play was stated to give Mr. J. B. Steele that
opportunity of displaying the histrionic talents with
which he was accredited, an exhibition of which “ The
Huguenot Captain,” his opening piece, was by no means
successful in doing. “ The Lady of Lyons” is a play
with which we are agonizingly familiar, but, neverthe-
less, in order to properly guage Mr. Steele’s merits, we
sat the piece out, with exemplary patience, from
beginning to end.
* * *
Mr. Steele has many things in his favour. A
good stage-presence, a good voice, and any amount of
aplomb. He comes to us with tons of adulatory press
notices, and a reputation as a tragedian second to none
—in New Zealand. But, for all this, Mr. Steele failed,
by a very long way Indeed, to satisfy us by his repre-
sentation of Claude Melnotte. In tho first place, his
grasp of the character never rose above the conven-
tional ; in the second, even in the most pathetic pas-
sages, his voice was never modulated; and in tho third,
instead of treading tho boards with the springy step of
a young lover, he stalked about all through the evening
like the ghost of a murdered postman going Lis rounds
at midnight.
• * *
Miss Marian Willis, on the other hand, played
Pauline in a manner which both pleased and surprised
us in a very large degree. Having previously only seen
this young lady in advanced melodrama, in which
pieces she was always either enveloped in smoke or lit
up with blue fire, we certainly did not give her credit
for possessing the power which she displayed in “ The
Lady of Lyons.” Miss Willis’s Pauline Deschappellos
is an effort, which, when it is considered how few are
the chances afforded for rehersal and how terribly hard
the lady has to study, cannot be otherwise regarded than
highly intelligent, and, though at times lacking in
polish, her representation of Lytton’s heroine is one
abounding in fire and pathos. She played well, dressed
well, and looked extraordinarily well. Without her the
piece would have been a dreary business indeed, and we
are as pleased to give Miss Marian the notice as a six-
months' bridegroom is to see the back of his mother-
in-law.
• * *
Mr. J. H. Martin made a robust Colonel Damas,
but we have seen him do better things. The Beauseant
of Mr. Stoneham was not a particularly brilliant effort,
but it nevertheless stood out a star performance in con-
tradistlnotion to the Qlavis of Mr. Arrowsmith, which
was feebleness itself. Mr. Sweeny had no chance as
Gaspar, and Mr. Barry as Mons. Deschappelles made
up so ridiculously young, that he might easilv have
passed for the nephew of the hero. Mr. J. P. O’Neill
was, of course, funny as the landlord, and Messrs.
Warner and Burton would have been capital as the
two officers had they not borne on equal resemblance
to two bailiffs in disguise.
* • *
Miss Melville’s Madame Deschappelles lacks
breadth, depth,—nearly everything, in short, except a
white wig and flowered gown; while the Widow Mel-
notte of Miss Montague was a performance that was
quiet to timidity. The piece was fairly mounted, and
there was a moderately numerous audience.
# * *
“Convicted, or The Frozen’’—something, was
played on Saturday night at this theatre, but we will
reserve ourselves for “Led Astray," which will be
produced in a few days, and in which Mr. Haygarth
will make his reappearance.
* * * *
At the Opera House, on Saturday night, “Across
the Continent” was put on, with Mr. J. L. Hall in the
§ art of Knock-m e-down-Johnny. Essentially a “ Satur-
ay night piece," and one that has been so often pro-
duced in Sydney, a critical notice would be thrown away
upon it. The play itself is, as a literary production,
beneath contempt, but its various incidents, sensational
effects, and thrilling tableaux, ore contrived with great
skill and ingenuity. Mr. Hall was very great, both in the
prologue and in the drama; and, making certain allow-
ances, he was well supported by the rest of the company.
We would, of course, prefer to see _ a per-
former of Mr. J. L. Hall’s calibre in something better
than “ Across the Continent"; but, as the Sydney
people will have this kind of piece played, we cannot
blame the management for putting it up and scooping
in the welcome dollars. A clever comedian, Mr. Alex-
ander Thomson, made his re-appearance in Sydney as
Mr. Goodwin, and was much applauded, and Mr. Sam.
Poole was most effective as Csesar Augustus. Miss Lily
Marsh was only—but there !—we will wait to see her in
a better piece, as we have no wish to necessitate by
critical severity our having to follow her funeral train
to the lively strains of the Dead Marsh in Saul. All
worked hard, and much praise might be with justice
lavished upon the cloud of Nellies, Annies, Maggies and
Julias who sustained the ‘characters allotted in the
piece to “ weak women.”
* * •
While on the subject of the Opera House, we
may as well state that Mr. Thynne has retired from the
management, and that Mr. Hall is carrying on the
« spec." himself We wish Johnny all the success in the
world, and we are confident that if he is not over-
handicapped with ex.’s at the start, he will make
the show hum like an exhibition top on a cheese-plate.
From what we can gather, however, we believe that Mr.
Hall's season will close on the 25th, when Wybert
Reeve contemplates removing his company to the
Opera House, in order to make room for the Montague-
Turner crowd, who re-appear at tho Gaiety ix “Mignon”
on the 25th. That they will be welcome, va sans dire,
and as we understand that Ambrose Thomas’s opera has
been abundantly rehearsed we look forward to having
our savage breasts soothed with such completeness
that we shall roar like sucking doves through several
issues.
* * * *
By the Manning papers, 10, we see,
That Ashton’s cirque is at Taree.
Professor Scott, we do declare,
With a new “ balm” is also there;
And they say on the Manning River
His hair is just as long as ever!
The Empsons (whose “ biz.” is far from good)
Are showing at the neighbourhood:—
And this is all the news we get
From Manning River, dears, as yet.
* * * *
On Thursday afternoon last, on the invitation of
Mr. A. Huenerbein, a number of gentlemen connected
with the Press (and others) assembled at the Royal
Pianoforte Warehouse in George-street, to witness the
dibfit of I Mr. Hallewell, a basso-prof undo who has sung
before the Princess Louise, and who now warbles every
night behind a good many people in the “Tambour-
Major," in which piece he has had as yet no chance.
We are enabled to speak of Mr. Hallewell in the highest
terms, and, indeed, it is a very long time since we have
heard a man growl so musically. His voice is powerful,
his intonation wonderfully accurate, and his style
thoroughly mature. The facility and correctness with
which Mr. Hallewell dashed off the frightfully trying
succession of intervals in Hsendels " Honor and Arms,”
testified to the cultivation of his voice. His phrasing is
scholarly,and of expression he has no lack. Mr. Hallewell
has a great future before him, and will, in all probability,
follow the example of all eminent baritones and tenors,
and die an Italian marquis in a Florentine palace.
Mr. Hallewell was assisted by Signori Pagnotti, the
eminent flautist, and M. Bomon—the latter gentleman a
most excellent ’cellist—both of whom were very suc-
cessful. Hr. C. B. Foster acted as accompanist with
his usual skill, and Mr. A. Huenerbein was as full of
graces as the musicians were of music.
# # *
lu connection with this entertainment, we notice
that Mr. Hallewell is credited by the critic of our even-
ing contemporary with singing “I fear no foe,” by
Pinuti (sic), and “ Qui Sdno (sic) non saccende," from
•• The Magic Flute." The same writer also ecstatically
remarks that “ the rows of pianos and other musical
instruments in the show-rooms, and the exquisite tones
of Mr. Halliwell’s voice (sic) and of Signor Boman’s vio-
loncello, made us fancy that we had got into a temple of
Apollo, instead of the showrooms of a pianforte ware-
house." This is very good, indeed —quite Arcadian, in
fact —and would be perfect —in an auctioneer’s adver-
tisement.
** * *
As we understand that our friends the Romanys
are about to appear shortly in Shakespearian drama—
possibly “ Othello,” with Lieut. Wilde, of the Koyal
Marines, in the title-role, and Mr. Riddell as lago—
perhaps this description of the dresses of Desdemona
and Emilia respectively will be some guide to the ladies
in the choice of their costumes. The actresses who
impersonated the parts mentioned were Miss Ellen
Terry and Miss G. Pauncefort respectively. “The
latter, as Emilia, has a train of deep, rich terra-cotta
hue, the material being embossed velvet of the most
costly kind. The dress is trimmed with a lacework of
old gold, and the sleeves are puffed with terra-cotta
satin. The head-dress is of velvet, and trimmed in the
same manner, and the whole costume is relieved by the
bright folds of a long white lace veil, hanging like a
graceful drapery from the back of the head. Ellen
Terry’s dress is of the finest white cashmere—
when she isn’t in bed—fitting closely to the figure. _ It
is plentifully trimmed with pearls, and a long sweeping
train gives it a graceful effect. She also wears a long
cloak of white velvet, beautifully embossed, with
a becoming little beefeater kind of hat, made of the
same material."
** * *
Fred M'Cabe is under engagement to Hisoocks,
who has “ filed his sheddle." The entrepreneur willgm
future be known as Judas M’Cabeus. Or, let us make
it again, Judas Mac habeas. That’s Latin.
» * *
By the way, we suppose that, as Fred is tem-
porarily the property of Hiscocks, he will on landing
here, find that he belongs to the official assignee.
** * *
Marcus Clarke’s monetary troubles seem to have
awakened his muse (andhow the word “muse" brings
to our remembrance the Gartonian thirty-bobber so
dear to the heart of Marcus!) On the occasion of
Miss Pomeroy’s benefit (at which, by-the-way, she
played Hermione) he wrote to accompany a bouquet of
white and pink camellias, the following lines :
“ Hermione 1 at first as fair
And pure as white camellias were,
Then as the red did crimson show.
When blush of shame o’erspread her brow.
Next in a safe seclusion laid
Like violet, hidden in the shade,
And after trial, and merit known,
The true love token last is shown,
Hermione in lasting joy
Lives —by the art of Pomeroy."
This is so uniquely delicious, that we can’t resist the
temptation of tacking on a few iambics :
Oh, after this, who shall aspire
To laureate’s wreath, and laureate’s lyre ?
To sing no more great Meaden need.
His pipe’s by thee put out indeed 1
The poet’s true fire thou hast felt,
E’en though old Waxman wouldn’t melt 1
And we see by thy phrensied tene —
That thou wouldst fain call Her-my-own.
N.B.—All rights reserved.
* * #
By the way, Grattan Riggs succeeded Miss
Pomeroy at the Royal, Melbourne, in “ Shin Fane.’
From the number of auxiliaries employed, we should
imagine that “ Shin" was a piece that was good for the
“ supe." Whoop 1
** * *
Let’s jumble up some country shows.
We really haven’t time
To write our •* Sundry Shows ’’ in prose—
So, now, here goes for rhyme.
We got a paper t’other day,
That we’d ne’er seen before.
And that small rustic rag did say
“ ‘ Stray Leaves ’ at Bnngendore.”
The Chronicle, a venture fresh,
And printed very pale.
Gave us this note of the “ perfesh "
“ Lynch bells at Armidale."
** * *
“ Signa,” the musical “ cricket ” in the Bris-
bane Observer, thus writes of Miss Annis Montague :
—“ I have heard all the greatest singers we have had in
the country, with the exception of Catherine Hayes,
and can unhesitatingly say that not one has possessed,
together with flexibility and compass, such a wonderful
volume in voice. In the interpolated air *lt was a
Dream,’ this is more particularly noticeable. The
voice may be heard now passing away like the music
Shakespeare describes: —
• . . . . it had a dying fall;
O, it came o’er my ear like the sweet sound
That breathes on a bank of violets,
Stealing and giving odour.’"
A pity that this should be writ
By one whom we have heard
Has got a head that’s very bald.
And such a long grey beard.
** * *
Mr. Hiscocks has “ gone up King-street,” with
his partner—liabilities £lBll 9s. 9d.; assets, £l. Mr.
H.’s losses are set down as follows : —“ Deposit in the
Provincial and Surburban Bank. £558 7s. Bd.; losses on
Mammoth Minstrels, £3760 14s. 3d.; Victoria Loftus
Troupe. £l6B Bs. Id.; Urso Concerts, £93 45.; Kelly and
Leon, £lB5 ; ‘.H.M.S. Pinafore,’ £132 4s. Id.; and the
•Zealandia,’ £B7 19s. 2d. Mr. Cohen is the official
assignee in the estate.” £3760 loss on the Mammoths !
We didn’t think there was so much money in the
(theatrical) world. And of all the Mammoths, Dick is
the only one who has 11 got back.”
** * *
Piloted by agent “ Jos ’’
(Capitally done “ old boss! ’’)
Pomeroy appeared, we find.
Last Saturday as “ Rosalind ”
In that city, sternly staid.
Where Hoodie’s laureate—Adelaide.
** * *
Professor Rice has contrived to Coom-at the
pockets of the Cooma-ites, and, indeed, his late tour has
been quite a tour de force, as regards success. For many
months now, Mr. Rice has been manipulating the heads
of the rustics and their cash, all over the country. His
mind-reading is, however, his principal draw, and,
strange to say, it is about the only kind of draw that
does not require a wardrobe. This is a little deep, we
own, so without stopping to explain, we will merely
state that he is quite happy,only he sometimes complains
that many of the country Mayors’ heads are so thick
that he has great difficulty in seeing through them.
We would say more only it might be thought that we
are taking a Rice out of the Professor.
** * *
Pollard kids at Auckland are,
And Walter in the Star does write.
To ask those who are “ crowded out,"
To just crowd in again to-night.
Great Haselmayer is at —well
These names we do detest —
’Tis Otahu oh, hang it—there!
You’ll have to guess the rest.
** * *
They’ve been going it in Cooma. The new
School of Arts was opened the other night, and the
amateurs played “ Still Waters Rnn Deep." and “The
Area Belle." When the box-office was opened, there
being only the secretary present to grab the lucre, the
larrikins, while he was fumbling with the checks, made
a gallant charge, and a good many got in on the cheap.
Referring to the first piece, the local Express ingenu,
ously remarks“ The comedy was enacted by the com-
pany in a very creditable manner, when the facts are
considered that it was the first appearance on a public
platform of seme of the performers, and that one of the
principal characters, namely, Captain Hawksley, was
undertaken by Mr. Blake at the eleventh hour, the
amateur for which it was originally cast having had to
leave the district on business." On the second night
the entertainment was —not crowded.
* * * *
The triumph of the Turners continues in Bris-
bane, and the company all promenade Queen-street in
the afternoon looking radiant. The juvenile members
of the populace cut melodious Charles and his tuneful
Annis off at street corners, and it is considered by the
fair sex a mark of distinction to get a rose-petal
from Le Contour's “ button hole.” Macallum is in
statu quo, and so popular is Caron, that the girls who do
the block —now read this slowly—are all on the Caron-
beau "lay" to Caronboler against Caron. They say
it's a very Leon time (have we done this before r) since
they saw such a nice che/ d’orchestre. Indeed, if he
yielded to entreaties, he would—cast your minds back
to the vernacular of the middle-ages—be a continual
buzz-conductor. Farley is in fine voice, and fine
feather ; Miss Lambert is looking lovely, and we hear
that Eva will shortly do the Davenport trick with an
eligible young man in such a manner that he will never
be able to untie himself. Sweet Saxophonic Sebastian
beams on mankind, as is his wont, and when Templeton
goes to church, he adds a ton to the temple And now,
dear brethren, we will sing to the—but, hold on !—just
a chunk from the muse before we go to press with the
inset: —
TO MISS’ANNIS MONTAGUE.
Sweet Queen of Song, All hail.l all hail!
(They sing like this to those poor Princes)
Ah, we could tell a harrowing tale.
How we have dying been by inches,
(Excuse this rhyme !) sons thyself near us.
And thy melodious voice to cheer us.
* * *
To break away from the subject, let us remind
our readers that the company re-appear on the 25th
instant, at the Gaiety, on which occasion, we hear,
Johnny will mount a rig of snoh superlative splendour,
that the other Solomon (now dead) will squirm m his
sarcophagus with envy.
* * * *
The South “Pinafore” company performed at
Tamworth on the 6th instant, and on the sth a gentle-
man named Hole gave a lecture of" Poetry." Mrs. Hole
(riving him a chord when he lost the thread. Mr. Hoi©
is not professionally a Holey man, although he lectured
for the benefit of the St. John’s Church organ. The
weather was wet, which did not prevent the lecturer
from receiving a warm reception from ,a cold and thin
audience.
• • *
Tamworth, it would appear, is rather a giddy
place, for on Monday, at the Oddfellows’ Hall,
Madame Lange Daniels had a flutter with a concert—
the Mayor in the chair; and on Tuesday and Wednes-
day the Tamworth A.D.C. came out in an Ethiopian
entertainment for the benefit of the hospital. We have
no particulars at hand asi to how the thing gee d, and
know no more how much the hospital benefited than we
do in what degree the funds of the Goodenough Home
were augmented by the never-to-be-forgotten perform-
ance of the Romanys.
* * * *
When “ gilded ” amateurs do give a show.
With, oh, so much joy and hilarity.
And play for, say. a hospital, you know.
Or any other kind of charity.
Why, those who’ve " parted’’—though it s very low—
When ’tis all over, “ want to know, you know,”
They want to know who all the " dead-heads ” were;
How much the " artists ” spent in cabbing it;
And some rude people, to ask, even dare,
How much was spent in lobstering and crabbing it—
While awkward queries often are the case.
About what went in Krug and Mayonnaise.
We like swells to enjoy themselves, of course.
And if they didn't, why, ’twould be a rum thing;
And though we wouldn’t have the " actahs” suffer loss,
We like the Charity to get—well—something.
For glory’s one thing, you know, Christian brother.
But then the Charity you part for is another.
* * * *
The Wilhelmj combination gave their first con-
cert at the Masonic Hall on Saturday last, and fluttered
the bosoms of the public from the start. To take them
in rotation, Herr Wilhelmj is a musical giant. He has
not only music in his fiddle and his fingers, but from
the top of his crown to the copper pegs in his boot-heels
he is one moving mass of melody. He came on in a
dreamy way, but did not seem to particularly notice his
grand reception. He gazed first at the public like a man
in a trance, and then let his eyes wander to his fiddle. It
was not a very wonderful fiddle to look at; indeed, we
have, for many months, seen its twin-brother in appear-
ance, labelled 7s. 6d., dangling on the outside of a
second-hand shop in this city in all winds and weathers.
But the moment he drew the bow across his Straduarius
yon could perceive, at once, that it was not the same
instrument. The Bounds he ’brought out of that fiddle
were surprising. It was one —this is rather tall writing
for us—one enchanting flood of magical music. We
don’t mind saying that we fancied ourselves rather on
the violin before Wilhelmj came, but now we don’t
consider ourselves inspired. However, having pur-
chased a new half-crown bow, and a pound lump of
other rosin, we intend to make a fresh start, though
we don’t think we shall catch Wilhelmj this side of the
Necropolis. Seriously, Herr Wilhelmj is a musical
phenomenon, and not to hear him play would be to lose
whether you are musical or non-musical —a treat of a
most astonishing and ravishing description.
* • *
Miss Kate Thayer, the soprano, has a voice
which goes in at your ears and riddles your soul. We
have heard a good deal about the angels singing, and
all that sort of thing, but the moment Milner Stephen,
who can’t sing a note (though he can blow a good deal!),
announced that the angels .inspired him, we became
rather sceptical. We have confidence m the angels
once more now, and believe that Miss Thayer is one of
them, but has just come down to have a vocal flutter on
earth by way of raising something towards the building
of St Peter’s new school, or a presentation sword to
the Angel Gabriel. We trust, however, that Miss. Kate
won’t fly up again just yet, as the earth can ill-spare
such a delightful warbler. Miss Thayer’s voice is
cultivated highest pitch, and has extraordinary
flexibility.
0 ♦ ♦
Herr Yogrich, the pianist, is a true artist. His
technique is not much, if at all, inferior to Ketten’s;
and in musical feeling and the power of expressing it,
Herr Yogrich may confidently challenge comparisons.
Besides, his hair is longer than Ketten’s.
• • •
Miss Conron has a charming mezzo-soprano
voice, neither so flexible, nor cultivated to the same
extent, as Miss Thayer’s, but of a quality sweeter and
more sympathetic. In ballad and emotional singing she
bears the palm, and, if she does not dazzle so much,
pleases perhaps more. Her voice lingers in the
memory, and a song from her would charm even Sir
’Enry into a quarantined house, were she within.
* * * *
The success of “ Tambour-Major” is now more
than assured, but, though the piece, is only in the
infancy of its run, the management, we understand,
have already put •• Olivette” into active rehearsal, and
the gallant Fred, is to be met every morning eu route
for his professor of singing, with whom he is practising
the solos that’iare to knock the public. The music of
“ Olivette*,” by the way, is said to be superior to that
of “ Tambour-Major," but the opera is not so spectacu-
lar.
* * * *
• ‘ Diplomacy’ ’ still hums. The great Dodge has
had the Governor and the Commodore; he is to have the


officers of the Squadron and the Princes, and will
probably after; that want (and apply for) the Angels.
The piece is a great artistic and a great financial suc-
cess. So what more can they pray for ?
** * *
The Dwarf is shortly to take his departure, ac-
companied by the Giant and the Magnetic lady, upon
whom (but this is in confidence) he has been, of late,
casting a matrimonial eye. We don’t know if this
affection be reciprocated, but we hope not, as we should
rather like to wed the magnetic lady ourselves —when
we can find time.
♦ * •
There are sundry shows now in Sydney, the
makings of a truly magnificent concert troupe. Fancy
Hallewell and Boman joined to the Wilhelmj crowd,
and Corpo di Bacco!
** * *
The preparations for the bicycle tournament
are going along on wheels, and Harry Richardson has
already chosen the sparks at Delarue’s that he is going
to buy out of the profits.
** * *
In Miss Alice Rees’s dShut as Josephine, at the
Melbourne Opera House, her friends threw her about
two tons of flowers before she had sung a note. This
kind of thing spoils a young actress almost as much as
the oleomargarine of the Morning Rum, The taste is
equal in both instances. But, then, bad butter was
always injurious, and butter in Rum we never did like.
** * *
The Austrian Band, up North, are doing very
badly, and at Maryborough their attempt to get up a
ball resulted in a complete fiasco. A grand concert in
the Gardens only realised £2O! The weather is cold,
but the tempers of the bandsmen are as hot as Heller.
• * *
At latest dates the Oliver-Seagrave crowd were
playing “ The Ticket-of-Leave Man" in Maryborough,
having closed with “Quilp” at Gympie. “Little
Nell,” it seems, got under the waist-coats of the
Gympie boys (we speak, of course, only figuratively),
and “knocked" the Miner reporter to that extent
that in bis notice he is a mere driveller. It is an omin-
ous fact, anyhow, that in the critique poor Emmett’s
Dick SwiveUer is not mentioned. Isn’t it about time,
by the way, that this crowd came sailing in our direc-
tion? Miss Melrose (sweet name!)—but let us para-
phrase Scott: —
“ If thou wouldst view fair Melrose aright,
Go visit her by the pale moonlight.”
Miss Melrose has been away from us so long that it
seems as if—like the girl in Hood’s ballad—
“ Although she knows she’ll be our death,
She will not be our Nell.”
# * *
Further from Queensland, we see that “ The
Pirates of Penzance” was produced. It was a great
success, and Miss Emma Wangenheim receives the fol-
lowing kudos from the Northern Argus : —“ Miss
Emma Wangenheim’s rendering of Mabel is the most
successful she has given since the season opened. She
sang with spirit where required, and where pathos was
necessary, there it was. In the first act she was ex-
tremely happy in the love-making scene with Frederic,
and sang the air ‘ Poor Wandering One ’ with much feel-
ing and tender expression."
* * *
On June 3rd, Hudson’s’Surprise Party were at
the Towers, where Tommy was dancing himself into
the hearts of the people. All are great favourites,
especially Miss Maven, who has received a cartload of
offers, ana a trunkful of " specimens.” In short—
Of notes and gifts she would receive.
Odd evenings, full a platter.
The former she would mostly burn.
But always kept the latter.
** * *
Our Auckland correspondent tells us that
Pollard’s Juvenile “ Pinafore” has been the greatest
local success experienced since the golden days of the
Thames, when Auckland could and did support good
shows. The company played all through their season
to crowded houses. They were to open at the Thames
on 29th June, with Waikato to follow, afterwards re-
turning to Auckland to produce “ Les Cloches de Come-
ville." Mr. and Mrs. Carden and company were to
open in the theatre on Ist inst. in “ Clancarty.” It was
said that Fred. Marshall would join the company at the
end of the Auckland season, and tour N.Z.
** ♦ *
The Hewetta (Musettes), D’Orsay Ogden, and
■the lovely Beatrice have gone to Batavia, per Almora
'(s.s.), en route for India. We note this in order that at
Calcutta they may begin to get the triumphal arches
ready. A “ cable” will do it for them.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The use of the Revised Version has already
been attended by good effects. The judicious toning
down of sundry stiff passages and hard expressions
must eventually tend to modify the too free use of that
strong language against which two clauses of the
Vagrant Act seem to be especially directed. The
general influence of these grand verbal changes has, we
are told, already penetrated to the remote depths of
bullock-driverdom down in the far-off shades and devious
ways of classic Brisbane Water, and caused an abrupt
discontinuance of damming and blasting operations.
Only the other day an exasperated driver of oxen,
instead of apostrophising Poley, Strawberry, Ginger,
and Brandy in the old unrevised style of objurgatory
reproach which we love so well, put it thus, after having
in the first place delivered his soul to the offending
animal: —“ Gehenna seize your condemned, dyna-
mited, nitro-glyoerined, sanguinary optics! O, you
offspring of a dog! Where the Hades are you pulling
to ? May the Evil One fly away with you to a Place of
Torment! May the hunting packs of the Place of
Darkness follow your hobbled feet round the rocks of
Eternal Gloom 1 ’’ This, to quote the Ashfield evan-
gelist, “ is indeed a blessed change.” But it happened
that the Chief Justice of Gooseford was riding slowly
by at the time, and that his Honor listened to the above
carefully-revised edition of the old stock curses with a
half-pleased, half-puzzled air—as if doubtful whether
the terms (although decidedly bullocky) could safely be
brought within the scope of the celebrated and elastic
Fifteenth Victoria, No. IV. However, all the doubts of
the Judge were dissipated just afterwards by a un-
measured allusion on the part of the savage teamster to
certain matters which, though in a sense scriptural,
are not usually referred to in polite circles. And when
the bullocky was remonstrated with, he operatically
screamed : “ Bambini 1 Bambini! we are here, dear Dean
—we are all here —where the Hades are you going to ? ”
We hope that the delicacy with which this story is told
won’t offend anybody. Any innocent subscriber who
wants to know how it‘s done according to the unrevised
version—for we have not had time to read up the new
book—will please call round next publication night.
* * *
It is not generally known that there are female
doctors in Sydney—ladies, and plump ones, too—who
cure by galvanism, electricity, penny-royal, parsley-
soup, and other valuable remedies unknown to the
pharmacopoeia. A gentleman, who lived opposite one
these medical angels, was taken bad with a severe cold
and chilblains, and was lying in bed as cold as a wedge,
with a cramp in his stomach, and his pulse at about 23,
when, acting upon a message, over skipped the lady-doc-
tor. First she took hold of his wrist, which caused him
to draw his knees up convulsively and simper idiotically;
then, placing a pink shell-like ear against the invalid’s
chest, she listened intently, still gently squeezing wrist
as before. On this his pulse went up to about 150, and
he got as red all over as a lobster, upon which the lady
immediately pronounced his disorder to be typhoid
fever^ in a most virulent form. He didn’t like to say it
wasn’t for fear it would offend her, so she floated over
the road again, and returned with a bag containing
sage-brush, gum-leaves, celery-stalks, spear-grass, and
oms-root, and having boiled these ingredients down to
a Pulp in a large saucepan, she gave him a pint of the
liquid, and when he had coughed that down, supple-
mented the dose with a pill of her own composition,
made of gamboge and bitter-aloes, about the same
s “ a P® an d rather larger than an ordinary walnut. She
hen left the patient to his repose. . . ' . . Next
morning when she and her boy wheeled over the
galvanic battery on a truck, they found all the shutters
barred, and “ house to let ’’ nailed upon the front door.
* # #
“ George Sand only wrote at night. It was not
until after midnight, when all were asleep in the
chateau, that the beautiful genius awoke to which we
owe Consuelo." It is always interesting to know things
about the inner life of literary ceiebrities. We —
humph!—wonder in what mystic portion of the 24 hours
Lewis Scott writes those opening addresses for the
theatres ? Can it be “ when the owls are out ?*’
* * *
It is announced in Saturday’s edition of the
Telegraph that its special reporter, whom it sent to
the South Sea Islands to report on the massacres, has
returned, but that journal does not mention the fact
that the gentleman in question is far from well. We,
however, grieve to report that this is the case, and we
are beginning to think it was a pity the poor fellow was
not quarantined on arrival, as probably that would
have prevented him showing how exceedingly sick he
is, in the first contribution to the paper whose special
reporter he has the honour (if he thinks it such) to be.
He says:—" At Buckatoo Isabel, we were swarmed by
natives, 47 canoes being alongside, and not less than 246
natives being on our decks. In the canoes were toma-
hawks, loaded guns, and spears, and money to pay for
our heads.” Now, this is not only a fearsome narra-
tive, but it is news besides. It’s surprising enough to
learn that a Telegraph reporter has a head, but
when we hear that some one—even a nigger—wanted to
buy it, why, then it is indeed a staggerer. But let us
take a long breath and clip the continuation of this
blood-curdler:
Macdonald, Mr. Nelson, and myself—were passed on
deck, but they were seen in time, and after waiting five
hours for an opportunity, they had to go away unre-
warded for their patience." They ? Which ? Who
went unrewarded—the tomahawks or _ the niggers ?
One more, and we’ve done: —“ Captain Schwartz’s
death at Porvugi speaks for itself. We found Mirebeau,
Banyetta, and the whole of the Rubiana coast doubtful,
and reports come in from every vessel of the same state.”
Now this is almost as perplexing as Mr. Skae’s item in
Mark Twain’s book. Well, if the Captain’s death
“ speaks for itself," surely the “ special reporter’s ’’ par,
is in a similar predicament. In introducing this mag-
nificent specimen of descriptive journalism the editor
says:—“ Before proceeding with the narrative of his
tour, we give the following sketches, which will, no
doubt, be read with interest.” He is right there. The
narrative (if what we have quoted be any criterion of
its style) will be looked at with precisely the same
kind of interest with which one looks at a two-headed
child, a five-legged bullock, a Rum critique, or any
other monstrosity.
* # #
Dr. Hodson has been 'presented with a testi-
monial by the Chinese, “ as a mark of their appreciation
of the services he had rendered to their suffering conn-
trymen, and for the kindly disposition he had evinced
towards them during his late investigations with
reference to the small-pox." We have no objection
in the world to this, excepting that, perhaps, in view of
the peculiar circumstances which surround Mongolians
and small-pox at the present juncture, it would have
been better taste not to have so eagerly clutched the
watohee, chainee, &c. However, it was Hodson's choice
to accept the gifts, and long may he live to wear them.
* « •
This is all the S. F. Newsletter says in fare-
well to Moody and Sankey:—“ Moody and Sankey leave
us! God be praised 1 Hallelujah 1 They are a coarse,
ignorant, vulgar brace of * Stiggenses,’ of whom the
best that can be said is that they have done no greater
harm than lies in making religion a laughing-stock with
intelligent and educated people. The third-rate operatic
performance with which Sankey desecrated the hymnal
‘ to the honour and glory ’ of his own voice, and the
comic burlesque to which Clown Moody treated his
hearers, are departed (let us hope) forever. May our
■heartfelt blessing be and abide with them. Amen.” We
wonder what it would cost to say half this of some of
our local howlers P
* * •
In the Assembly, on Thursday night (7th inst.),
during the J.P. growl consequent on Mr. Young’s motion
for adjournment, Mr. Ryrie made an impassioned oration
of about five minutes, during which period he contrived
to distinguish himself to such an extent that by this
time the Braidwoodites must be shrieking to have
old Greville back, contracts and all. The orator
said: —“ He did blame the Government, however,
for not making a proper investigation before
appointments were made. He would particularly
refer to a case where a person was nominated and
sworn in as a justice of the peace, who did not own
even the poorest home, and had no property whatever
in the district, and who, on the day after he was sworn
in, packed up his belongings in a three-bushel bag and
left the district.” Well, now, we wonder but we can
do it better in verse. Let’s think, now, of a good gnaw-
ing metre. Ah-h!—
There is an evening paper published in Parra-
matta now,which is a magnificent addition to modem
journalism. It is called the Evening Times, and the
number we received was about twice the size of a char-
woman’s curl paper, and about half as clean. There
was a Sydney letter in our copy, and we read down to
the bottom of a column, as follows : —“ Quite equal to
the occasion was the ‘ M.T.C. Robert;' as he replied—
* No, sir, I.’ ” Then, glancing up to the top of the next
column, we found the continuation as follows:—“ The
‘ Faculty ’ had sundry consultations over the case of
the late Earl of Beaconsfield.” This is exciting enough
in all conscience, but, not satisfied with stunning its
patrons at the outset of its career, it advertises to pro-
duce “every evening, a portion of a tale of thrilling
interest, which, we believe, will entirely fascinate our
readers.” On reading this we told the boy not to bring
round any more papers. It’s too exciting for us, and,
besides, the whole concern isn’t big enough to wrap a
pint of prawns in. The printer and publisher is Mr.
John Fergnson, and we heartily wish that gentleman
all the success his splendid literary venture deserves.
* * *
At Maryborough, N.Q., there is a quadrille
club, composed of the upper ten, who meet once a month
for a dance, and are so “awfully select” that even
the bluest of blood can only gain admission by a large
amount of balloting. At one of these assemblies the
following was overheard :—“ May I have the pleasure
of the next dance with you, Miss P" “ Thanks,
no, I’m engaged; but, oh, Mr. , mamma told me to
ask you whether you could supply her with a pint of
milk every morning ?” “ Tell your mother the grass is
so bad that the cows barely give enough to supply all
my customers, but as soon as some more cows calve
I’ll let her have it.” The gentleman puts himself for-
ward as the “ cream ” of “ serciety."
* * *
While you read this, cough gently and look an-
other way. In a fashionable suburb of this city, there
is a gentleman who is quite more than ultra-aesthetic in
his surroundings. He likes to have everything beauti-
ful about him—not even excepting the parlour-maid.
Well—(by the way, what a lot of “ wells ’’ seem to
creep into a gossipy paragraph!)—one morning after
the master of the house had gone to business, and the
cook had received orders for the six o’clock dinner, the
lady of the house sent for the parlour-maid, and “ gave
her notice.” “ What for, ma’am ?” enquired the rosy-
cheeked band-maid, sobbing. “ I am really grieved to
be obliged to take this step," returned the lady, “ be-
cause yon ore a most excellent servant. But then you
know, Jane, I — a-hem*1 — I cannot discharge your
master."
* * *
“On Friday last a man named George Farthing,
a sleeper cutter, working near Beni, Dubbo, nearly
severed the big toe from the foot.” Poor fellow I You
must feel mean enough when you’ve only a farthing, but
when you’re less than a farthing you must feel small
indeed I We shall pray, of course, for George’s re-
covery, but we have not much hope of it. We could
not reasonably expect to hear of any change in him.
* • •
“ The Mayor of Gnlgong (Mr. C. Zimmler) is
about to institute a libel action against the proprietor
of the People’s Abvocatb. The cause of action has
arisen out of the newspaper’s report of an inquest."
From what we can gather, the Advocate said that it
wasn’t a very plucky thing to sit upon a dead man, and
that it was about time the Mayor plucked up courage
to sit on a live one, considering that he was so often
sat upon by the Aldermen himself. The damages, we
believe, are laid at £100,000. This, we may remark, is
only hearsay, and may not be the cause of the action at
all. Doubtless, however, it was something Zimmler.
* # #
The Armidale Chronicle has evidently de-
termined to be both lively and domestic. It has come
out this week with an article on fleas, and a recipe for
cheese-cakes.
* # ♦
We commend our readers to the following ad.,
clipped from a recent Herald :—“ Desmond. —June 3rd,
at her residence, 18 Broad-street, Burwood, Matilda,
the beloved wife of Alex. R. Desmond, leaving a family
of seven to lament their loss. Safe in the arms. Bless
the Lsrd I Bless the Lord!"
“ I see you take the Morning Phenomenon,”
said a lady to her butcher, noticing that comic periodical
on the counter. “ I take it reg’lar, mum,”was the reply
—“ by the pound.”
* * «
Says the commencing period of the Herald’s
Melbourne letter: —“ The principal occupation of poli-
ticians at this moment is speculation." Well, the
Sydney correspondent of the Argus might, with ad-
vantage, begin his letter in the same way—merely with
the addition —“ in land.”
• * *
“ Sir,” said a rather seedy signature canvasser,
addressing a well-known auctioneer in Pitt-street the
other morning, “ a memorial is now lying—” ** They
always do," said the gentleman.
* * *
The Southern Argus thus remarks in a fiery
leader :—“ Mr. Forester is no * beardless politician.' He
is an old, experienced parliamentary man, and nobody
understands more clearly than he that, to be of use to
the country, it is necessary to be moderate while being
energetic, and not to allow personal feelings to obscure
the judgment and drive one to rashness in word or
action." Certainly ! We agree with every line that is
here written, only we think the praise far too meagre.
Now, we feel inclined to lay ourselves out and —but
before we do so let us ask this question—“ Who, in
brimstone, is Mr. Forester P”
• # *
In our notice of “ Tambour-Major,” we had the
following sentence: —‘“La Fille du Tambour-Major,’
produced at the Theatre Royal, is as attractive as legs
can make it.” From last week’s Sydney Punch we
clip :—“ At the Theatre Royal, ‘ La Fille du Tambour-
Major’ still continues to be performed. The piece goes
as well as legs, &c., can carry it." The Punch pro-
prietary thus appear to be inaugurating their new series
by “ memorising" our dramatic critiques. We are very
much flattered by this, but as Punch is a comic paper,
it ought really to read up the Daily Telegraph’s
theatrical lucubrations, which are really the funniest —
and at times the most pathetic—things we have ever
turned our spectacles on to.
w • «
They are not particular to a shade up country.
The other day a man was placed at the bar, at Blank-
town fas nearly as we remember), charged with a very
bad assault upon a married woman. When the husband
was put into the box he said: —“ I am the husband of
Lucy Salford; am a horse-breaker at Jogalong ;
remember coming home at about 5 p.m. on June
17th last; my wife showed me cuts on her head ; saw
prisoner next day, and told him to apologise.” And
then the prisoner declined to apologise because “he had
no money." So he was arrested, tried, and —as it came
out in the evidence that the prosecutrix had formerly
lived with a blackfellow—acquitted. Now, in this case,
we don’t know which characteristic trait of the drama-
tis personcB to admire most —the natural politeness of
the husband, who considered an apology would wash
out the insult to the family escutcheon, the advanced
education of the accused, who divined that an apology
meant money, or the calm insouciance of the prosecutrix,
who admitted without a blush in full court her liaison
with the blackfellow. Surely these good people are
bound yet to come to the fore. Why, if they only
travelled to Sydney, how eagerly the two men would be
snapped up for jurymen, and what a magnificent water
policeman the woman would make ! So come, gentle
children, where glory waits you.
* • •
The Ballarat Star says that “ a blind
beggar, led by a half-starved shivering boy, was passing
the Ballarat stockbrokers’ ‘ corner ’ the other day.
One of the brokers started a subscription—rigged the
youngster out in a new suit, gave the balance to the
old man, and sent them off rejoicing in a very few
minutes.” We do things differently in Sydney. One
day last week, a tattered shadow who was half blind,
whole ilame, and three parts dead, piteously accosted a
knot of merchants who were talking “millions” on the
steps of the Exchange. They saw at once that he
wanted taken care of, bless you 1 So they didn’t wait to
get up a subscription, but conferring with a blue-coated
gentleman who was passing, arranged that he should be
housed, clothed and fed gratis for three months.
Victoria may be ahead of us in railways, but in philan-
thropy we can give them; 25.;out of 50, and win in a
canter off the spot.
# * #
The School of Arts in Parramatta boasts a
miserable piano, and the Parramatta journals have
frequently called attention to this. The other evening
a grand concert was given there by some amateurs,
including a very talented young lady pianiste, whose
name (it should, by reason of her talents, be Melusine
Vere de Vere) is Moses. The concert took place—was
a tremendous success, and the Cumberland Times in
its notice on “ Various Matters ’’ deeply sympathised
with the “ ladies who had to perform upon the instru-
ment, which bears by courtesy the title of pianoforte."
This is verv severe, and would be indeed scathing, only
it happened that on this particular occasion Miss Moses
had had her own £120 Erard sent from Sydney tor the
evening, and the School of Arts harpischord was, in
consequence, temporily relegated to the rat-parlour. In
reference to the matter the ever funny “ Wrecker ’’ in
the Mercury says:—“ That Various Matters Man had
better leave off musical criticism as a profession and
take to potato dealing. He does not shine on pianos,
anyway.” No, perhaps not; but then would he, on the
other hand, shine in potatoes ?We think not. A critic
of this kind has, we consider, only one chance of shining
at all, and that is in the boot line.
• • •
Mr. H. Stogdon Highatt, the impassioned bard,
has spread himself out in the Carcoar Chronicle last
week in some stanzas—" Dedicated to a young gentle-
man, who is about to leave home to attend a celebrated
Collegiate School in New South. Wales." In the open-
ing one he sings thus :
“ When only a youth, about your own age,
To a large public-school I was sent;
’Twas Harrow, in England, to which I allude,
I remember the day that I went.”
Well—
This magnificent verse we are not surprised that,
At Harrow you learned it, sweet Stogdon High-att !
For we never, in sooth, heard any one sing
In a strain we could truly call more Harrow-ing.
• • •
In the course of a speech in the Grafton district,
recently. Sir John Robertson said —“ However great a
newspaper the Herald might be, its policy and
opinions had no influence on the people of the country.
The other paper was a mere thing; it had neither policy
nor politics; nor was it a great newspaper.” Oh, come,
Sir John, this is rather too bad. We don’t mind what
you say about the Herald, because the old lady can
take care of herself, but, hang it 1 let “ the other paper ’*
alone. We consider it very mean of a big man like
you trying to set your heel upon a delicate plant that is
only as yet growing by the aid of a crutch, and sprout-
ing by the spasmodic help of an occasional auctioneer.
Besides, when you say it has no policy yon are wrong,
dear old boy. It has any amount of policies, and as for
Eossessing no politics—that is more absurd still: it
as bushels of them—all possessing (and justly so) a
very strong Victorian flavour. TheiHERALD, no one can
deny, is the great paper of to-day ; but who, on the
other hand, will be disposed to question that “the
mere thing” will not be the journal of the very remote
future ? Yes, Sir John, when the London Times has paled
its fires, when the Daily News is a thing of the past,
when The Bulletin is no more, then (and only then)
will “ the other paper’s ’’ influence rise from the cab-
stand to the Cabinet.
« « «
Some one’s been having a lark with'the Cooma
Express. That giddy journal, in the last issue to
hand, publishes the following telegram .—“ Mr. Avig-
dore (sic), late private secretary to Sir P. Jennings, wag
buried to-day. The funeral was largely and influen-
tially attended." This only wanted “ numerous mag-
nificent wreaths of costly flowers were cast into the
grave” to be complete. Poor D’Avigdor!
* * *
TheITiNGHA Banner is bossed by a Mr'Pinchin.
From the hungry looks of the staff, we should think he
had something to do with another paper we could name
that is not published in Tingha at all.
♦ ♦ *
If there is a paper published in New South
Wales that we have lately read, with breathless inter-
est, it is the Carcoar Chronicle. In the first place
every issue of the journal is filled up with the very
kind of matter that interests —nay, absorbs us. Those
leaders, sharply criticising the fiscal policy of the
Uruguay Opposition, have entranced us, and the pars.,
which liken Andy Lynch to a modern Coriolanus, will
live in our memories a life-time. And in the second
place, the paper being edited by a lady, the matter all
through has a footstool and work-box flavour, which
makes the Chronicle stand out pre-eminently as the
domestic paper of the hour. When over-worked, we
had but to take up the Carcoar Mary, and we were
soothed directly. So smooth and dreamy was its
policy that we found it to be better and cheaper than
chloral as a sedative. Imagine, then, our surprise—our
bewilderment—when in the last number we find a tot al
change in the tone of the paper. The imprint of the
journal is the same, but the contents are full of blood,
thunder, and mystery. Let us take the mystery first.
Here it is in a little par. all by itself“ To Whom it
May Concern.—The gentleman who picked up a piece
of black ribbon on Coombing Hill last Tuesday week
will oblige by returning the same to the owner, who has
a particular reason for requesting its return in the
same order and condition as when dropped." We
don’t, of course, know to whom the piece of ribbon
belonged, or why the owner had a “ particular reason
for requesting its return in the same order and con-
dition " (how like a lease this reads 1) “as when
dropped,” and probably never shall know, unless indeed
an article in another part of the same paper will be the
means of solving the mystery. Listen to this:—
“ There is the assassin who, with glaring eyes and naked
dagger, approaches his innocent victim in the dead
silence of darkness, when exhausted nature is resting
in unconscious sleep, and plunges his death messenger
into the unsuspecting heart; and there is the cowardly
assassin who writes an insulting anonymous lettei. Of
the two, we prefer the midnight dagger assassin."
Quite right, too, Mary avick, and we applaud you for
it. The point is, can we do anything in the way of
bringing the affair to a head? If wo can, you may
command us, for we dearly love a little mystery. We
are afraid, however, wo can do nothing unless you con
inform us, Ist, —who dropped the piece of black ribbon
on Coombing Hill; 2nd, —what the anonymous letter
said about the piece of fugitive frippery or its owner;
and 3rd,—the exact reason why the Carcoar Chhonicle
goes in such a “ perisher ’’ on the subject. We should,
of course, like to have these particulars supplied early,
as we might have occasion to wet down an extra ton or
two of paper.
• * m
During the only Mao.’s last visit to the consti-
tuency which enjoys the honour of claiming him as one
of its representatives in Parliament, a terrible rumour
that he had been unseated spread through the district
like a bush fire. The free selectors breathed again
when it was discovered that the foundation for this
appalling announcement was that “ Mrs. Clendinning’s
dog ’’ had torn a square foot of cloth out of the sitting-
down place of the irrepressible’s pants.
* * *
Some time ago a passenger train stood at the
Morpeth station, laden with passengers bound for Mait-
land. The station-master, after glancing at the clock,
nodded to the guard, who struck an attitude dla Spoil,,
when about to deliver a “Yorker,” and gave the “right
away " signal. The driver sounded his whistle, and the
engine started off, leaving the carriages behind. “ Ah,
then and there was hurrying to and fro.” Passengers
poked out their heads idiotically; porters) shouted
frantically; station-master, guard, telegraph operators,
and pointsmen held up their arms until the platform
looked like a huge blackboard, covered with human
letter Y’s. All to no purpose, however: the fireman
was too busy, and the engine pulled up at the East
Maitland station punctually toltime. “ Where is your
train, Nat ?" asked an astonished super of permanent
way. The driver glanced round; back flew his revers-
ing lever, and the four miles to Morpeth were nego-
tiated under » three-forty. That driver and fireman
contributed a fortnight’s pay to the railway revenue.
* * *
Now that we have got a good way through the
winter, it may be as well to remind provincial editors
that the following was universally acknowledged to bo
the champion snake story of the season of 1865:
A Chinese gardener at Scone had a pet opossum, which
he was in the habit of securing by a dog-chain to the
leg of the table during his absence on cabbage-vending
expeditions. One day, when the Mongolian was away
as usual, a large diamond snake entered the hut, and,
after the preliminary process of sliming and slobbering
had been gone through, bolted the unfortunate ’possum.
Then the snake discovered the chain, and, though
doubtless surprised to meet with a ’possum who had a
tail at each end, and one of them an iron one, he worked
that in also. Then he came to the table—a large cedar
one—but, nothing daunted, he accepted the situation
cheerfully; and when the Celestial returned home in
the gloaming, he was horrified to behold a huge mass of
unshapely snake wriggling on the floor with the extreme
end of the last leg of the table just protruding from the
place where, in a well-ordered snake, the mouth ought
to be. Mem. ; The three chief points of a good snake
yarn are—first, its truthfulness; second, its freedom
from anything sensational; and, third, that the expres-
sion, “ his snakeship," should not occur more than
thirtaen times.
V.
What! not a bit of “ property! ”
• Well may you shriek about it.
As if a J.P. ever could
Adjudicate without it!
As if without a baker’s shop,
The fact’ry of a tanner,
A magistrate could judge a case
In an impartial manner.
But let him, say, a drug-store keep.
Or rent a small selection.
Why, then, of course, he’ll sit and judge
With wondrous circumspection.
A toy-shop he’s the master of,
A butcher, or a grocer,—
Why, then, of course, he’s dignity.
And honesty, you know, sir.
Appoint a man who’s free alike
Prom riches and obliquity—
Oh, monstrous!—why, sirs, that would be
A horrible iniquity!
Drag some small draper from his shop,
And give the puny object.
For life, the power to control
The freedom of the subject—
Take tallow-chandlers—Chinamen—
We'd go on till we “ busted,” —
The more we think of J.P’s, oh.
The more we feel disgusted.
We have no doubt that Mr. D.
Is grieved to lachrymation.
And so it “ jars ” to see all this
Apparent exultation.
We would not scoff at holy things,
Or jeer at tribulation;
But cynics live who’d smile at this
Apparent “exultation."
These are strange times, when pain and grief
Appear in prints diurnal—
Aye, advertised like drapers’ goods.
In ev’ry daily journal.
The day, perchance, will come full soon.
When this is what they’ll do, sirs:—
The man who brings the hearse and shell
Will bring the sorrow too, sirs.
We hate to see grief made a show.
And flaunted o’er the nation;
In sorrow —anger—joy—revenge—
We do hate exaltation.


Public Compani
C
ORNWALL FIRE AND M.
ANCE COMPANY
CAPITAL, £lOO,OO
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A, LLOYD AN
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STREI
SIDNEY.
The mutual assuranci
VICTORIA (LIMIT!
Established a.d. 187
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Syc
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chair
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life
granting of Annuities and Endowmei
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding tc
proportionate amount of the entire
Society at every distribution thereof
LOANS granted on Mortgage or or
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. M
Ret
TNDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT
JL BENEFIT BUILDING ANI
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and tl
for Investors. Eight per cent, lest
borrowers. Eight per cent, and j
investors. The highest current rate
on Deposits. Prospectus and all i
offices. 171 York-street.
WILLIAM
Excelsior land inyes
BUILDING COMPANY & B.
The above Company Sells Land a
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate
sham, a few minutes walk from th
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance,
£4OO do. £4O do. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1
All information at the Company's
street. WILLIAM
NCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIET
In the event of loss of sit
MEMBE RS are entitled to receivi
with the amount insure
The Society also uses its influence
suitable re-engageme
For further particulars apply to
G. HORTON MORI
Sec
Went
EJ
Applications for Agencies
Photographer]
PARLOUR ST
The Really Popular (and cheap) P
805 GEORGE STi
Opposite the Railway Tej
Eanoeiallv esteemed for his nortra
Public Coxupas
The mercantile ban]
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITOES:
Jaa. Soroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES:
F. A. A. Wilsoi
SECEETAEY:
Hector Alien,
Southern Branch, 587, Gee
.LONDON BANKEi
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapn
Agent—G. H. Alexandc
This Bank transacts all usual Bai
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mac
other produce shipped to England f<
HOUSES furnished at the Cc
Arcade, on Time Payments.
street.
WE repeotfully invite the p
Show Eooms, Central Fur
31, and 33 Park-street.
-TTTT'E Furnish Houses from
▼ T Central Furnishing Arcade
ark-street. B
CENTRAL FURNISHING
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, and
This establishment is now open,
requisite for household furnishing
large and extensive department sole
glassware. 1
HLEFY and Co. beg to ir
• public that they have now oc
PUENITUEE ESTABLI
Nos. 29, 31, aJ
N
CRIPPS’ CATERING C
Having taken those COMMODIOU
door from Hunter-street, in Eliza!
PARTIES CAN BE SI
with a
LARGE R O
for
HOT DINNERS or ME
BALL PARTIES
P.
R. L a I
Wholesale and Eet
PRODUCE MERC
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS £
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STOEEI
18 Qeorge-street West (late Pan
And
Darlinghnrst Rood, near Wi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and
$
UNAD ULTERATE
BAH/NC POWi
*lndia and China Tejs
705 GEORGE STEEET, HA
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new w&i
We beg to call special attention of the public to our BI
Rend, 2/-; Finest Royal Blend 2/6; Superior Queen s Blen.
backed by us, and bearing our trade-mark as a grantee of p
mckets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b; also, catties, boxes, i
hese TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.
N
EW DA
AWARDED the
for Sewing M
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
9177*9
y
V
MANUFACTORY:
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Coni
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad wii
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity
in m,bad nlmnst nil. Seven nounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic
ONDON MORTGAGE.
1 DISCOUNT BAN
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUT:
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED Hi
SPECIAL NOTIC
The Directors place before those di
advantages upon easy terms —UNI
advantages. Their method of tram
highly commended, CONCESSIO.
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE
BILLS OF SALE on furniture, '
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded
ties, Personal effects. &c.,
AND UPON ANY REASONAB:
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acce]
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY,
SUARTERLY instalments; or as
lENCE of borrower.
All communication and interview
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address, TH
London Loan and Discount Bs
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
M
ELBOUENE CUP CONST
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT
rji H 0 S . J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES. AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHUEST-STREET, SYDNEY.
w.
H. A E I E L L,
PROVISION MERCHANT.
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kbnt-steeet, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned: —
E. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt 4 Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.


Easiness Announcements
H. PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA.
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERT RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
•LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, PleyeTs, Anchor’s,
Soufleto's, Kirkman’s, and Huudt and Son's Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, A Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER & IRONFOUNDER.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
BOXES,
&c., &c.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
TOWtwnHMmrM3ERVHTOry &
moNOMETEFi WaYch Makers^
AND Opti CIAIVIS.
\l
vgh hunter Srntfy 7
Illustrated Catalogues post free m Applnation.
Tobacconists
E * S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Euby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett's Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the BOUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
15 TOEK STEEET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT. & DELICIOUS.
9
J.
t AS
Manufactured by
T. S A Y W E LL,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
TCTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOE MEECHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Boom and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STEEET, SYDNEY.
B
OOTSI BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER S
NEW BOOT SHOP.
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL
NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
IST NOTE THE ADDRESS ;
H. HILDER,
670 GEOEGE STEEET,
Brickfield Hill
RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIFICA-
TION.
EOW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation,
This is not vain expatiation;
For 'tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication
In callous state or suppuration,
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation.
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration-^
Just use your powers of observation
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation),
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination.
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation
Then —friends of suffering creation—
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation.
Called “Farmer’s Friend,”—ugh, botheration!
It’s nothing like EOW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station,
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers through
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
Chemists and Druggists
pUBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON’S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
bo well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’g (Vegetable) Antdbilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT..
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies:—
EAMES’S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6, & 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
CAUTION. —In our style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boscliee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses. For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d. ;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA LINIMENT
was introduced into London
two years ago, where thousands of cases were cured
—and one year in Sydney; and some of the worst cases
of Rheumatism have been cured in a short time by
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long standing, it will cure.
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Aches it will cure in a
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by a few applications.
HEAD OFFICE :
89 WATERLOO-ROAD, LONDON;
and
107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE AGENTS, PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
MANZANITA FRUIT PILLS.
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented for Liver complaints,
Thousands of people in Sydney have used them, and
have been cured of Biliousness, Indigestion, Costive-
ness, Sick Headaches, and all complaints arising from
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO ROAD, LONDON;
and 107 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNE P.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLESALE AGtENTS,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE
NO
MORE
but try
EANDEESON’S
PILLS
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFEE from HEADACHE P
Then try Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
Do yon Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness P
If so remember Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are your children sick at any time P You
can safely give chem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
W Eemember this, and always keep a box of hia
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWAED ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 Qeorge-street.
B T
ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDEE OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTEALI AN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEAES
that it is impossible that the pnblic could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people ore naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instan*
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vastbene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDEE OF THE AGE
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson's Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Josepfa-
son’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained P
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK POE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWAED EOW & COMPANY.
H
ALL OF PHARMACY,
(Late Felminoham’s)
78 KING STREET,
Dispensing Establishment.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet requisites, &c. Patent Medicines sold below the
English marked price. All articles carefully selected.
D. HALE, Manages, Chemist.
STEER'S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOE
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appetite with the Aub-
tralian Eelish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
MR. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDEO.
PATHIC PEACTITIONEEB, GIVE TEEAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVBEPOOL-STEEET-
Pamphlets gratis-
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TEEATMENT for all
Nervous Disorders, which unfit sufferers for marriage,
&c., <fcc. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Cheat, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—E. T.
SELBY, Medical Herbalist, John-street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
PROFESSOR WEST’S Limited Adult EVEN-
ING CLASSES, Thursdays, 8 p.m.; Children’s
Classes, Saturdays, 2 p.m.; select Adult Classes, Satur-
days, at 4 p.m., at Hall, 344 Castlereagh-street. Pupils
may join at any time. Private lessons on application.
Eesidence, 161 Liverpool street.
E. CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Betail
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TEAMWAY TICKETS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Conrt-honse),
DARLINGHURST.
EON AND BEASS BEDSTEADS.
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Msttresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. lAWLEE,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
60S George-street.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
POTTEET
AND
BEIGE WOEKS,
CAMPEEDOWN, NEAE SYDNEY.
Price List on application.


'ASHES GLAZED ON THE
> NOTICE.
s
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-strei
HOP FRONTS GLAZED
BRITISH PLATE GLAI
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent Honse, 869 George-strei
British plate and si
WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-strei
pAPEEHANGINGS WA
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent Honse, 869 George-strei
WHITE LEAD, OILS. COLOI
&c., &c.
p
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 839 George-stre
LATE GLASS. PLA!
GEORGE F. MURPHI
Regent House, 869 George-stre
T
HOM AS
WEBB
BOND-STREET,
Beg to inform their customers that '
OPENED a LARGE COftSIGNMEN
BREAKFAST,
Also,
DINNER, and
FANCY CHI]
AND
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invited
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all ;
Plain figures—Low pru
MASON BROTI
14 & 16 SI
ImISS Svd
ADVANCE AXIS THAI
Special Notice to Heads of Families, Managers
The Proprietors of THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT (
pace with the rapid advance now being made under the liberal
South Wales, have just imported from LONDON, VIENNA
prices !! TO SELL AT PAEIS PRICES !! THE CHOICE
Gentlemen’s, and Children’s BOOTS AND SHOES ever yet
FIRST CONSIGNMENT NOW READY. REGULAR
Come and see the newest style—the Parisian M
Our large and increasing Wholesale Trade enables us to
FRANCE and GERMANY are competing fob our path
SUPERIOR QUALITY OF <
And Enormous Deduction of !
COME AND TAKE YOUK CHOICE FROM THE LEADING RIVAL 1
Latest French Invention, NEW FOOT DEFENCE, for 1
imparting artificial heat. A written guarantee gii
THE LARGEST STOCK OF COLONIAL BOOTS IN
SUGGESTIONS OF SOME OF OUR
Economists are specially invited to teat the value of their rea
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
THE GREAT CENTRAL BO
610 GEORGE STREE
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
NCE USED ALW
HUDSON'S EXTRA'
Trade mark " Ann and Dolly ” on
ont which none is genuine. Bewi
ALVV^
TRADE
MARI
The GRAND GOLD MED
HIGHEST MEDAL, Pa
HIGHEST AWARD, Syc
LATHEES FREELY, SOFT!
AND SHOULD ALWAYS B
For Washing Clothes, Linen, D
For Scouring Floors, Greasy 7
JJJAKE P
THE EOTAL FUENISHIN
NEW AND BEAUTIFUI
ATTEACTIVE PEIC
A FEEE DISTEIBUTION of C.
place daily, giving full information
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
House:
House:
House:
House
The STOCK is of such extent tl
have every opportunity of making
and careful selections. All goods
figures so that parties who are nol
to make purchases can pay visits of
tain every information in a pleasa
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BE
THE KOOKABURRA.
Paying visits —the doctor’s.
A man aged 90 is XC-dingly old.
The worst of collisions. —Running into debt.
Milky way.—Prom the cowshed to the pump.
“ The Dadooraoy ” is what they now call the
esthetics.
A bore is a person who talks when you wish
him to listen.
A veil is the protection against the sun of heaven
and the sons of earth.
An Aramao squatter now knows himself. He
sat down on a hot branding-iron.
Children, like locomotives, get on the wrong
track when the switch is misplaced.
Beggary.—The condition of one who has re-
lied on the co-operation of his friends.
A bottle-nose man is one who is endowed with a
proboscis created in the image of its maker.
Saying attributed to Brigham Young“ Can’t
you keep your cold feet away from my back P”
A statistician says a man stands sixteen chances
to be killed by lightning to one being worth a million
of money.
It was Artemus Ward who said that there are
two things in this world for which no one is ever
prepared—twins.
The fellow who, whenever he goes out into the
cold gets toothache, should pin his ears over his mouth.
The cold air can’t get in then.
If you see a man with a pair of scissors in his
pocket he’s either a draper's assistant or an editor. If
he’s well-dressed then he isn't an editor.
We have heard much about the habit girls
have of sitting on one leg. It’s a very bad one, particu-
larly if the leg doesn’t belong to the young lady.
Nitro-glyoerine is recommended by a medical
journal for certain affections of the chest. Particularly
those in which the chest resists the drill or the jimmy.
Medical men never follow to the grave the
corpses of deceased patients. They say that it would
look too much like tailors going home with their
work.
Parnell’s Lambs.—Paddy: “ But what’ll we do,
Mike, if the Liberator becomes a landlord himself P ’’
Mike: “Ooh, sure, thin, we’ll jist shoot his tinants
for him 1 ’*
A blackguard is merely a man whose qualities,
prepared for display like a box of raspberries in the
market, have been opened wrong side up. An inverted
gentleman, in fact.
The other day a donkey, after giving a tremend-
ous bray, let out with his heels and knocked a piano into
smithereens. The girl who owned the instrument said
he sang well, but she didn't like his accompaniment.
Pashence iz a good thing for a man to hav, but
when he has got so much ov it that he kan fish all day
over the side ov a boat, without eny bait on his hook,
lazyness iz what’s the matter ov him.— Josh Billings.
Fill her bustle full of sponges,
Sister’s going to roller skate.
She will need their yielding softness
When she tries the figure 8.
In the tunnel—Gallant Captain (of Volunteers) :
‘•Why shrink away from me thus, my dear; do you
look upon me as a wolf in sheep’s clothing ? ” Young
Lady Passenger: ’’ O, no 1 quite the reverse.’’ [Cap-
tain subsides!.
A meddlesome old woman was sneering at a
young mother’s awkwardness with her infant, and said:
“ I declare, a woman never ought to have a baby unless
she knows how to hold it.” “ Nor a tongue either,”
was the quiet rejoiner.
•• They call me a bluestocking I" madam exclaimed;
“ Pray why, of all ladies, should I, sir, be named
From the hue of my stockings, which man never
spied ?”
“ Nor ever desired to,” the villain replied.
At Melbourne, the other day, an old Highland
lady combined Scotch and Greek in a moat charming
way. She wanted a passage by the s.s. Macedon, so she
went into the office of Howard Smith and Sons, and
asked when the “ Mac Edon ’’ was going.
Tennyson Byron Longfellow writes to know who
was the author of the following lines —
“ Here lies the man whose crown was won
By blowing down an empty gun.
And met the girl on Heaven’s green
Who lit the fire with kerosene.
Prom an exchange we learn that “ Pinafore ”
and the small-pox reached Honolulu by the same boat,
but the inhabitants down there don|t mind the small,
pox much. Let us see—what was it arrived up here
with our package of pustules? Was it “Woodcock’s
Little Game ’’—or did any one start yet another brass
band?
The following poemlet is good, and we regret
that we do not know the name of the onsslet that wrote
it, so as to give him the credit he deserves:
“ From off the running rivulet the icy chain is thawed.
And the flutter of the winglet of the doveletis abroad;
The quacklet of the duoklet in the brooklet we can hear.
And the rootlet of the piglet will presently appear.”
Professional advice; “You want to be free
from whatever gives you annoyance," said the doctor to
the sick man, “free from all causes of worry and
nervous excitement, from everything that tends to
produce mental distress or agitation.” “ Doctor 1 ”
exclaimed the patient, sitting bolt upright in bed and
clasping his professional adviser’s hand with enthu-
siasm, “put that in writing and I’ll apply for a divorce
at once."
Among the curiosities of Paris is the market for
cigar-stumps, in Place Maubert. There are four or five
wholesale dealers in these aesthetic articles, having head-
quarters in the wine saloons of the vicinity, and these
deal with their furnishers, who are mostly poor old men
and women and ragged gamins. Much of the tobacco
thus scraped together is sold to workmen, and much is
said to be exported under the title of Tahaa de Paris.
There was one old fellow in the Maubert quarter for-
merly who became so rich at this humble business of
selling cigar-stumps that he had an annual income of
15.000 fr.
At a Northern railway shed, the other day, a
playful fireman sauntered jauntily along, holding in his
hands the jaws of a pair of blacksmith’s tongs, the
handles of which enclosed his neck and projected a
couple of feet over his shoulders. Seeing this, a head
porter, with a turn for “ barracking," winked knowingly
at a little group of railway officials, stole softly behind
him, and vigorously grasped the tongs-handles.
Then a yell of agony pealed forth on the soot-laden air.
But, as the unsophisticated coal-smasher had taken the
precaution to heat the extreme ends of the handles to
that peculiarly excruciating temperature known as a
black heat, it need scarcely be said that the howl of
anguish did not proceed from him. “ Why, in thunder,
didn’t you tell me them tongs were hot ?" indignantly
demanded the checker of waybills, while his hands were
being anointed with glycerine and oil. “ Well, I never
thought anyone would be mean enough to attempt to
strangle me,” was the soothing answer. The next
victim was a permanent way man; then a platform
porter ; then a tapper of tyres; and each went out of
that shed a sadder and a wiser man. The last burnt
offering on the shrine of practical joking was a choleric
brother fireman, who, however, took his gruel so
unkindly that it took four drivers and a cleaner twenty
minutes to pick up and put together the pieces of the
tongs-bearer.
THE CUP OF TEA.
First you take and warm your tea-pot.
Let the water boiling be.
That’s a most important secret.
But see you do not spare the tea.
Put it on the hob to draw it
For some minutes —two or three —
Then fill up and shake and pour it
And bless the man who found out tea.
Lovely woman is the sugar.
Spoons the poor men seem to be,
Matrimony is hot water.
Love is like a cup of tea.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Beaconsfield’s will proved under .£77,000.
Honest John Sutherland has been ill, but is now
better.
John M'Elhone is building a mansion at Potts’
Point.
The late Hon. T. Ware Smart, of Sydney, died
worth £243.000.
Mr. Peter Gumming, an old S.A. colonist, has
died, at the age of 85.
Wilhelmj’s violin is a Straduarius, 160 years
eld. 505 guineas would not buy it.
The Due d’Aumale, so the story goes, is engaged
to he married te a German Princess.
Professor Denton, the eminent American
scientific lecturer, is now in Melbourne.
Buzacott is not going to proceed with his ,£2OOO
libel action against the Brisbane Telegraph.
Mr. Horatio Thurston, an old resident of
Mudgee, and brother of the Colonial Secretary of Fiji,
is dead.
Victor Hugo is a millionaire. He owns 1,737,000
shares in the Bank of Brussels, and has not all his eggs
in that basket.
Mr. Alfred Moul, the well-known composer, is
on a visit to Sydney. He represents the Melbourne
Age at the Wilhelm j concerts.
Mr. Dwyer, of Geelong, having declined the
appointment, Mr. Magee, governor of Ballarat gaol,
will succeed Mr. Castieau at Melbourne.
Commodore Nutt died of Bright’s disease, which,
in these days of free living and high pressure, goes after
big and small, and gets them just the same.
It is stated in the London papers that Major-
■ General Colley was shot while endeavouring to divert
the Boers’ attention from the wounded in hospital.
Lieut. Houston, of the Victorian naval service,
who so gallantly saved life on the occasion of the recent
torpedo explosion, has been presented with an address.
Mr. D. Manson, of Waltham Watch celebrity,
who appears to be a kind of Yankee Sardanapalus, gave
a sumptuous dinner at Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne, on
Independence Day.
Mr. A. L. Bourcioanlt (brother of Dion, and late
of the D. N. Argus), who was lately in Sydney looking
round for a newspaper property, has, we hear, bought
he Gtmfie Miner.
The .£lOOO left to Sydney University by the late
Mr. James Aitken, of Bushy Park, Grafton, to found a
scholarship, has been paid over to the University by
Mr. Aitken’s executors.
Donald Beatson, of Pen-
rith, is dead. In the old
coaching days, his house was
one of the best on the road.
Mr. J. G. T. Horne, for-
merly associate to the late
Mr. Justice Barry, will act as
associate to Mr. Justice Wil-
liams.
Mr. Hoskina has so far
recovered as to be able to
attend Cabinet meetings.
Turkish bathd have aided his
recovery greatly.
Messrs. Jenkin, Collier,
and Holliday have started to
inspect the country which
will be traversed by the pro-
posed trans-continental rail-
■way.
That splendid estate,
Havilah, Mudgee, for so many
ai the home of the Bayly
y, has been sold to Mr.
H. White, of Bando, for
-£BO,OOO.
The litigants in the great
Day Dawn mining case at
■Charters Towers have ar-
ranged their differences. De-
fendant pays £lOOO in satis-
faction of plaintiff’s claim.
General Fielding, who
■owns Magnolia Plantation,
Maryborough, and other
Queensland property, arrived
from England by the Torres
Straits mailboat, Cheybassa.
Mr. James F. Wilcox,
J.P., of South Grafton, a
resident of 30 years’ standing,
died unexpectedly on Mon.
•day. Mr. Wilcox was a
naturalist of considerable re-
pute.
A Privy Council appeal
is to be entered against the
decision of the Pull Court,
declaring Miss Linden, who
otherwise would be entitled to
a fortune of £50,000, to be
illegitimate.
Curiously enough, the
•only person, out of the 1500
guests, injured by the fall of
the cornice at Government
House, Melbourne, at the late
ball, was Mr. Charles Le Cren,
secretory of the public works
department. In Melbourne,
it would therefore appear,
•when the ceiling falls, justice
is done.
There is a lady in Hobart who has been dumb
ever since she, one night many years ago, looked under
her bed and there saw an escaped convict, in prison
■dress, still wearing his leg-irons.
Sir Bryen O’Loghlen should be a happy man. A
son was born unto him on the morning that he was
“sent for” by the Victorian Governor. Thus two
houses were in a state of confusion on the same day.
Emile de Girardin left a property valued at
£500,000 —a part the result of a legitimate newspaper
business, and a large part the fruits of speculation on
the information concerning public affairs he obtained
as a journalist.
Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., has issued a writ for
hbel, claiming £2OOO damages from an alderman
ef Gonlburn, for alleged slanderous expressions used
by the latter sn the occasion of his election as alderman
for one of the Gonlburn wards.
Howard Spenseley represents Victoria at the
Geographical Congress at Venice. Mr. Spenseley at-
tained some eminence as an equity barrister in Melbourne
years ago, and has of late been living in Europe. He is a
wealthy man, and owns, among other fine properties,
the Royal Arcade, Melbourne.
Burnett, the “ Yorkshire Evan-
so impressed the Maryborough (Vic.) people
with his eloquence that they gave him a heap of shares
—some 200 —as a mark of esteem. The shares in ques-
tion are now worth £3O each. Eureka!
The Hodgkinaon residents are going to give
Mr. W. M. Mowbray, their late Warden, “the best
gold watch and appendages that can be bought,” as a
soux'enir d’amititi. Mr. Mowbray, though a very young
man for so_ responsible a position, is one of the ablest
Wardens and most popular men in the Far North.
T ,P r -. Bride, of Melbourne University, takes the
Librarianship of Melbourne Public Library. Thus the
on v 8 W. H. Archer (late of Sydney) have, after
an, been ignored. Mr. Archer, as will be remembered,
was recommended by the trustees; Dr. Bride, a very
young man, is the choice of Mr. Berry and his
colleagues
.. Forster, of Black Swamp, Bathurst, died
other day, aged 80. She came to that district 50
years ago, with her husband, who, it is said, drew the
esign for the first church ever built iu the Western
nM n Church of England at Kelso. Another
u .Bathurst resident, Mrs. Williams, also an octogena-
ian, died last week.
It was, the other day, stated by a New Zealand
paper that there was no " modern’’ instance of inter-
marriage between an aboriginal inhabitant of Australia
and a white. This is incorrect, for there is in Sydney
an aboriginal lady who was educated, and subsequently
married, by one of our leading men, and who is a most
amiable and popular woman.
When the steamer which carried towards Bris-
bane Sam Griffith —we mean the Honorable Samuel
Walker Griffith—was neared by the welcoming boats,
Samuel was recognised by the characteristic fact that
he had his hands in his trouser pockets. He took his
hands out of his pockets in order to eat his luncheon,
and he put them in again in order to make his speech.
The most costly honse in New York will he that
of W. H. Vanderbilt, and will, with two others that W.
H. is building for his daughters, represent £300,000.
The woodwork is to be chosen from the choicest woods
of the world, and carved by the most artistic of carvers.
Vanderbilt has purchased in Paris some almost price-
less ceilings, and a replica of Ghiberti’s “ Gates of the
Baptistery"—the latter for £4OOO,
The funeral of the late Lieut.-Colonel
Watson Wilson, of the N.S.W. Volunteer force,
took place on Sunday afternoon, at Balmain,
with military honours, nearly 600 troops following
the body to the grave. The deceased gentleman’s con-
nection with the force extended over a period of 20 years,
and his demise has caused much regret among a large
circle of friends. Colonel Wilson was 64 years of age,
and had been half his lifetime in the colony.
The will of Lord Beaconsfleld has excited con-
siderable surprise, notwithstanding its manifest justice.
To the last a host of contemporaries assumed that
Lord Rowton would bo the future Lord of Hughenden.
Lord Rowton is neither surprise! nor disappointed, for
he was in close confidence with his friend at the time
the will was made. Moreover, it is well known to Lord
Rowton(s friends that at the time of his ennoblement
he received very substantial tokens of his friend’s
affection.
It is pretty generally understood up North that
a gentleman in large business in Sydney has again
recently given painful evidence of a serious mental ail-
ment. A few weeks ago he walked into a Sydney Bank
and drew a cheque for £1,000,000, and, becanse it was
not paid, instructed his solicitor to proceed for the dis-
honour of his cheque. Another indication of his lament-
able condition is found in the fact that he recognises his
Cr relations, and baa offered them cheques for some
idreds.
Mr. Henry Stevenson, of Niddrie, Essendon,
Victoria, a large capitalist who delivered a most inter-
esting lecture on " Farming and its prospects" a short
time since, is a true philanthropist. He is lending
money to the Wangaralta farmers at 5J per cent., re-
payable in not less than five or six years. Hitherto the
farmers have been paying the banks 10 and 12 per cent.the
result being often, of course, “ screw-up. Mr. Steven-
son advocates the formation of a great financial insti- I
tution to deal [with agriculturists on equitable
principles.
The Australasian in its current number treats
Miss “ Ada,” the “ memorising ” bardess, to a neat
sub-leader. It says that “ the case is an interesting
study for investigation of • unconscious cerebration,’
‘spiritual agency,’ and other similar influences, to
which many people of the present day become unac-
countably subject. But to those who adhere to old-
fashioned ideas and phraseology, and insist on calling a
spade a spade, the proceeding of the gifted Sydney
poetess and her curious explanation will! present no
difficulty of classification or description." “
The great aim of W. H. Vanderbilt and Jay
Gould is, it has been remarked, to get control of the
Supreme Court of the United States, which has at
present nine members, three of whom are reliable
friends of the corporations. Jay Gould is steadily
making steps in advance towards securing control of
the N.Y, Associated Press, which is in itself a huge
monopoly; for as thirty years ago the nine principal
papers permanently banded themselves together for the
joint collection of news, and no one of them can, under
the agreement, print even a special despatch from one
of its own correspondents without giving all the others
an opportunity to print the same despatch on paying a
share of the cost of telegraphing, it can easily be seen
that no paper can start to-day, and contend, single-
handed, against such rivalry. Further, the news so
obtained is sold to the entire Press of the country,
which, as it is altogether dependent on the N.Y. Asso-
ciation, is compelled to toady to that body. Gould
has now controlling interests in the Tribune, the N.Y.
World, the Express—of course we don’t mean the
Sydney paper—and has got his finger into The Sun.
He is worth 75,000,000 dollars, and by the expenditure
of a million or two more will attain his end.
The Northern Miner is a lively paper which
hits out and “ talks straight.” We are, therefore, glad
to hear that the proprietor, Mr. Thadeus O’Kane, has
amicably settled his little difference with Judge Hely.
By the way, as Thadeus has had so much law lately, we
aren’t by any means surprised to find him inadvertently
stating in a late issue that the “ Hudson Supreme
Court” (instead of the “Hudson Surprise Party”)
“ were to make their final appearance,” &c. We’ve felt
like that ourselves. It seems that the Judge “ bluffed ’’
the pressman by retaining against him—law, you know,
costs judges very little —all the leading members of the
Queensland bar. However, as the undertakers say, le
jour viendra.
“ Jehu Junior,” in Vanity Fair, thus writes
of Mr. W. S. Gilbert: —“ Mr. Gilbert is fond of salt
water and yachting. He spends six months of the year
afloat, and does most of his work at sea. He is amiable
and genial, though he can show temper on occasion, a
keen man of business, and always ready to do a kindly
action.” He can show temper on occasion with a
vengeance. We saw him rehearse (before we were
grey-headed) his piece “On Guard," at the London
Court Theatre, and after about an hour of it the leading
lady and first old woman were in tears, and there were
furrows of care on the low comedian’s brow as wide as
the Fleet Ditch. Yes; Mr. Gilbert can " show temper
on occasion.” Bather I
In a recent number of Society appeared a
poem on Beaconsfleld, by Clement Scott. As a copy of
newspaper verses the piece has extraordinary merit. It
will be remembered that just before he died, the great
Conservative leader “ tried to speak" to Lord Rowton,
but was unable to do so, and fell back after the effort to
speak no more. Here is one stanza of the poem:—
“ He tried to speak, that he might quell the storm
That gathered slowly round his country’s head:
Sworn to protect, ’twas he that gave reform.
Peace to the living, honour to the dead ;
And when at last was spent his latest breath.
Warm hands of friends closed over fingers weak,
Folding his arms, he rose, and facing death.
He tried to speak I"
The report of the committee of enquiry into the
case of Mr. T. H. Barron, government accountant, of
Queensl md, shows a substantial omission oh the part of
Mr. Barron to account in any way for some £5OO of
Government moneys entrusted to his bands. The
original deficit it appears was £B5O, and of this £350 was
reduced by Mr. Barron paying into the Treasury a sum
of £2OO, and accounting and producing vouchers for
another £l5O. When this was done, Mr. Barron and
the rest were of opinion that the accounts were
balanced, but on subsequent enquiry, the further deficit
of £5OO was discovered, and Mr. Barron has hitherto
found himself unable to account for this deficiency
either by producing vouchers, or even by explaining and
stating the details of its expenditure.
The will of the late Sir Henry Watson Parker,
formerly M.L.A. for Parramatta,'who died recently, has
been proved in England under £140,000. He leaves to
his wife £lOOO, his wines, consumable stores, live stock,
and the residue of his real and personal estate upon
trust for her for life ; and, after providing for several
charitable bequests, gives £20,000 to his niece, Mrs.
Annie Mary Haycock j £30,000 to his niece, Mrs. Emma
Jane Vaughan Arbuckle, together with his household
furniture, plate, and effects; £20,000 between the two
sons of ms late nephew, George Frederick Trevor
Parker; £24,000 between the four daughters of his late
nephew, Thomas Watson Parker; and legacies to ser-
vants and others. The ultimate residue of his property.
real and personal, is conditionally held upon trust for
his niece, Mrs. Arbuckle, for life.
Dick Thatcher popped in from New Zealand on
Friday—he always pops in, does Dick—by the Albion.
On the passage he got up a well-deserved testimonial
and presentation to the new skipper, Webster. He also
organised a concert, the materials being an assassin
who wore no collar, and breathed through a flute
spliced with tarred rope yarns ; a youth who divided all
his words into ten syllables ; a lady dying to distinguish
herself; two wrestling dolls, and a commonplace trick
by a professional prestidigitateur. As the audier.ee filed
out, and dropped their “bobs" into the hat for the
Seamen’s Widows and Orphans Fund, someone re-
marked that when Dick reaches his ultimate destination
he will exhibit his bad actors, who will have preceded
him, in aid of the fund for providing fans and linen
dusters for deceased juries of four and members of
Parliament.
Mr. Dan Mayne, editor and proprietor of the
Bathubst Sentinel, charged with having inflicted
grievous bodily harm on James Ebenezer Tonkin, by
knocking him on the head with a life-preserver, sur-
rendered to his trial at Bathurst, the other day. Defen.
dant pleaded not guilty, and was defended by Mr.
Buchanan, M.L.A., between whom and the Crown
Prosecutor, Mr. Teece, also an M.L.A., some very warm
interchanges took place. On the one hand, Mr.
Buchanan said that Mr. Teece had "searched among
the names of the jury, and had degraded the office
which he held by seeking to bolster up one that would
be adverse to the defendant." Mr. Teece, while repu-
diating this accusation, alluded to his learned friend as
“a miserable charlatan, who had been everything by
turns, and nothing long—a vile braggart, an inflated
wind-bag.” The jury, after being locked up for several
hours, failed to agree, and defendant was liberated on
bail.
It is related of a certain very well-known
Milesian editor of Brisbane that he used occasionally to
meet—and drink—with, at a little public-house in the
capital of Bananaland, a gentleman whose remarkable
intelligence was, in the journalist’s well-considered
opinion, only paralleled by the suavity of his demeanour
and the genuineness of his character. The pair used to
argue for hours on all kinds of subjects—on the doc-
trine of the Atonement, the Chinese question, the Dar-
winian theory, and the advisableness of abolishing
capital punishment—the newspaper man’s friend taking
the negative. Well, one night the editor went into the
little parlor for his " usual” with an acquaintance, and
saw stretched on a couch the form of his intellectual
friend. Pointing to the sofa, the man who was enjoy,
ing the pressman’s hospitality said, “ Do you know who
that is ?” “ No,” answered the ink-slinger, “ but I’ve
often talked with him. He seems a very decent fellow."
" No doubt," was the reply, " he’s the hangman.”
The Otago Witness has a sensational man
who “ reflects ” on “ what might have happened ’’ to
Mr. Jervaulx, the gentleman who had so narrow an
escape from being frozen to death through being locked
into the Orange Meat Co.’s ice chamber: —“ After twenty
minutes of that frost-fire torture—as the victim knew
full well—he would be a dead man. In twenty minutes
the blood in his veins would be ice, his heart a stone,
and his body pulseless and rigid as a statue. Ten
minutes actually passed, when, by a miraculous chance,
the sufferer’s cries were heard, and he was dragged oat
of the vault of death already halt insensible. In the
hands of Poe this story might have served as
for a thrilling scientific romance. Mr. Jervaulx would
have been allowed to put in the other ten minutes, and
would have been discovered in the condition of a human
icicle. His body would then have been sent in its
frozen state to London, thawed out discreetly under
supervision of a committee of means, and restored to
life." And then the writer proceeds to discuss Mr.
Proctor’s article in the Nineteenth Century on
“ Suspended Animation."
The conductors of a London newspaper recently
remonstrated with their Australian correspondent for
not having given fuller particulars concerning the visit
of the Dake of Manchester, The correspondent, it is
understood, replied that the Duke didn't seem to be
anybody in particular; that we had scores of old gentle-
men here with more money, more land, and no default-
ing tenants; that, though his Grace always said at
every place he visited that it was the finest spot in the
world, and that he intended to buy a station, he never
seemed to come to terms ; and that, in short, the Aus-
tralian people, who didn’t even in the first place fall
down and worship him, took no notice of his Grace in
the long run. The Duke’s after-dinner speeches cer-
tainly did remind one a little of the benefit orations of
a certain popular actor, who always told his audiences
that he was enamoured of their town, and meant to
leave his bones there. In fact, though the actor in
question, who is, we are glad to say, still alive, was
nothing but "a bog of bones," he’d promised his
osteologlcal remains to so many cities that if he only
gave them one apiece a great many places would have
to go short.
Mr. Hartley Williams has been appointed to the
vacant Victorian Supreme Court judgeship. A dinner
is to be given him by the bar. His Honor is the first
native-born Victorian who has been elevated to such
a position. He is only thirty-nine years uf age, was
educated in England, is a B.A. of Trin. Coll., Oxford,
and was called to the English bar in 1867. By making
the appointment before leaving office, the Berry Ministry
have put it out of the power of any coming government
to nominate Sir Bryan O’Loghlen—which is, on the
whole, a most fortunate circumstance.
The Grafton libel case —
MoDougall, P.M., v. Bawden,
ex-M.P.—has ended in a lizzie.
It came out that the original
cause of the row was a dispute
as to whether a plate or a bag
should be used for the offer-
tory I
At the biennial dinner of
the Jews' Hospital and Or-
Shan Asylum, held at the
'reemasons* Tavern, London,
at the end of March, the Hon.
Saul Samuel, Agent-General
for N.S.W., proposed “The
House of Commons."
Mr. 0. Morgan, one of
the proprietors of the
European Mail, is travelling
the colonies, with a view of
obtaining such local know,
ledge as shall enable him the
better to adapt the Mail to
the tastes of its readers.
General Sir R. Waddy
is dead, aged 67. The deceased
officer was the father of Mr,
Percy Waddy, manager of the
Commercial Bank at Orange
(formerly of Singleton), and
Mr. Richard Waddy, manager
of the Commercial Bank at
Morpeth.
The amount depending
on the issue of the proceedings
taken in the Equity Court by
the trustees of the marriage
settlement of Captain and
Mrs. Sydney Underwood, is
over £70,000, about two-
thirds of which amount con-
sists of a contingent interest
in the estate of Capt. William
Underwood, late of the 42nd
Highlanders (Black Watch).
Mr. Sampson Cnrnow,
mining manager of the North
Old Chum Co., Sandhurst,
who has a son in Sydney, was
killed by the fall from the
surface to the 1280 ft level,
where he was standing, of a
heavy 6ft slab, which had
slipped from a miner's hand
“ Two men working in the
drive rushed to his assistance,
but they could do nothing for
him. He was quite sensible,
and 1 bought only of his wife.
In two or three minutes he
said faintly, ‘ I am dying,’ and
expired in the arms of a
miner." He leaves a widow
and five children.
Mr. Wormull, a member of a well-known Eng-
lish firm of cutlers who exhibited at Melbourne Inter-
national, visited New Zealand after the close of the big
show referred to, and wrote over to a friend intimating
that he intended returning to Victoria by the Tararua.
However, he changed his mind, and fortunately did not
take passage by that ill-fated vessel. On reaching Mel-
bqurne, he found that the Exhibition Commissioners
had packed up all his goods, and written his firm to the
effect that he had gone to the bottom of the deep blue
sea, requesting at the same time that' they would kindly
send for his colonial Lares and Penates Mr. Wormull
had to send a cable after the Commissioner's letter
WOMAN ITEMS.
Beauty—the power by which a woman charms a
lover and terrifies a husband.
_ At the meeting of the Four-in-hand Club Mrs
Langtry was on the box of the Prince of Wales’ drag.
Ont of three candidates who passed with credit
at last Melbourne University matriculation, two were
ladies.
Suspicion is the feeling which impels the jealous
husband t® try and find out something he does not wish
to know.
Bigamy is a mistake in taste for which the
wisciom of the future will provide a punishment called
tngamy.
Here is another attempt to deprive woman of
ner rights : A male wretch has got np an invention to
prevent the slamming of doors.
■ xS 1 Italian, Belladonna signifies a beautiful lady ;
in English, a deadly poison. A striking example of the
essential identity of the two tongues.
Ida Foster, daughter of Mr. Foster, of the
Morning Call, at San Francisco, quarrelled with her
lover, and poisoned herself with strychnine.
The Princess Louise, under advice of her physi-
cians, will not leave London for Canada till July. The
Marquis proposes to resign the Governorship.
The scandal at Parihaka (N.Z.) is to the effect
that the wives of the returned Maori prisoners met
their husbands very cordially, and offered them presents
of shawls, &o.: but, to their surprise and disgust, the
THE SCAPE-GOAT.


SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
s
INGEE
MANUFACTURING
Have opened a Depot in
COMPANY
s
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARLING STORES,.
HARBOUR STREET.
S
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES-
Write for address of nearest Agent.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE FAMILIES.
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
s
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
8
INGEE’S, BEST FOR DRESSMAKERS.
SIEGER'S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequalled..
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly.
8
INGEE’S THE BEST POE TAILOES.
See the New No. 4 Machine.
8
INGBE’S SEWING MACHINES,
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE BOOTMAKERS.
See the New No. 4 Yibrating-Presser Machine.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
HAND OB TREADLE.
8
INGEE’S, The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE —Light to Work, Light to Carry.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO-
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
8
INGEE’S THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
8
INGEE’S THE BEST and MOST DUEABLE,
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
ADDRESS: THE
8
INGEE MANUFACTUEING COMPANY,
No. 1 DARLING STORES. Harbour-street, Sydney.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 George-strect, Haymarket, Sydney,
have been appointed agents for these. celebrated
machines.
Call and see them —Mouth’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d wieklj —no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
BINGEE’S8 INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.—TUENEE
and CO. only recommend the Singer.
Remem bee, there is only one sin-
ger MACHINE. See the name and Trade-
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—NO other NAME
applies to the Genuine Machines. TURNER A
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—Beware of German
Cast iron imitations. Only Genuine Singer’s-
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, by arrange-
ments with the Singer Company.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, 10 per
cent, discount for cash, or on Time Payments m
YDNEY.—From TURNER and CO., 35&
GEORGE STREET, opposite POST OFFICE.
8
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.—NOT ONE
but 160 FIRST PRIZES.
THE AUSTRALIAN
•‘HOME’’ SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
S 3
s
o
M
C
*6
&
*
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OP
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
;20,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. 1. —Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
I No. 3.—Machine as above, with polished cover to
| lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian “ Home ” Shuttle
i Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
i Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYABD LANE, SYDNEY.
ter LOOK FOB THE NAME !!!
M
E.
No. 12 HUNTER STREET.
ELLERCAMP
(Successor to PARROT BROS.)
Just Received by the Mail, the
NEW COMET SHOE, 5/6 pair.
THE ROYAL COURT SHOE, 7/6 pair.
MOROCCO BUTTON SHOE, 7/6 pair.
FUR-LINED WARM SLIPPERS, 7/6 pair.
Choice Assortment of New Fancy SCARFS, HAND
KERCHIEFS, and CHEVERETTE GLOVES,
New Spring-top Fur-Lined GLOVES.
Early Inspection Invited.
The truth of the epigram, “ Every country has
the Jews it deserves,” has been conclusively proved.
The run on this journal is stupendous. We
mentioned Bismarck’s anxiety to get his copy early.
President Garfield has a Bullet-in now.
A beautiful Hunter Case Gold Waltham, valued
$lOO, to be given away by the Lessee of the Coffee
Tavern Billiard Boom, Pitt-street.— Advt.
LUXURIES WITHIN THE REACH OE ALL.
When you ask a friend to visit you the first impression he receives when he steps upon your threshold
is one of comfort, abundance, and even luxury. But the remarkably small cost at which this
impression is produced is almost incredible. The first thing he does is to brush his feet upon a
FIBRE MAT for which you paid 2s. Passing on, the next thing he treads upon is a SINOLEUM at
3s. 3d. per square yard, or a FLOORCLOTH which only costs 2s. Hid. per square yard. He hangs
his HAT (a STIFF FELT it may be at 4s. lid., or a SILK HAT at Bs. 6d.) on the hat-stand, and
putting his 7s. 6d. SILK UMBRELLA on one side, he makes his way across a SHEEPSKIN MAT
(price 4s. 3d.)into the Drawing Room. Here a rich BRUSSELS CARPET meets his gaze, purchased
like all the foregoing, at
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EIWPOR I U l«,
HAYMARKBT (ONLY).
The cost of this was 2s. Bd. per yard, and there is also a HEARTHRUG to match. The et cceterasof
such a room are amply supplied from the same source. There are FIRE-SCREENS, FENDER-
STOOLS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, and CUSHIONS beautifully worked; and upon enquiry you find
that the CANVAS and WOOL came from
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
whose prices are below those of the Wholesale Houses.
As the morning is the time he arrives, the hostess (in a dress of GROS GRAIN, HOMESPUN
or FRENCH CASHMERE, procured at the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
and made of the very newest shade of colour) leads him into the Library. Here the CARPET is of
TAPESTRY, at Is. lid per yard, and his eyes alight upon the rich looking REP CURTAINS, which
cost about half what they would anywhere else, surmounted by a beautiful pair of CORNICE POLES
costing only ss. 9d. each, with BRACKETS to match at a small extra cost. The walls are hung with
tastefully executed OLEOGRAPHS and ENGRAVINGS, gladdening the eye; and when he learns
the trifling expenditure at which these additions are made he marvels how it can be done. Leaving
this apartment, he walks across a CHINA MATTING 36 inches wide, at 13d. per yard, into the
Dining Room, where the dazzling magnificence, combined with the chaste designs of the ladies’
attire (which latter has now ramified into a thousand novelties —relics of the styles of various historic
times) well nigh eclipse the more sombre requisites of every day life, such as TABLE NAPKINS
at 4s. per dozen ; TABLE DAMASK for extension at Is. 4d. per yard, or CLOTHS to fit any
ordinary sized table, at prices varying from ss. 6d. to 225. 6d. While in the room he notices the
Antimacassars, all hand made, at from Is. each; and the Curtains some of which cost only 3s 3d.
per pair, but the Applique are 15s. On retiring to rest he finds that
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
supplied the SHEETS, the BLANKETS, the QUILT (one of M'Lintock’s best EIDER DOWN or
SILK DOWN —delightfully soft, light, and warm), the Crockery upon the wash-stand, and even the
Fancy Soap, of which they have a pleasing variety. In fact, it is hard to say what they did not
supply. The most exorbitant prices are sometimes paid for BLANKETS, and it is simply because
the public are mislead as to their real market value. Now, at this well-known drapery establishment,
which, its proprietors are told, has only two rivals in the whole world, you can get a PAIR of
BLANKETS for 3s. lid.—a good warm pair. In a word, you can get anything you require, at a price
and of a quality that cannot fail to satisfy you, at
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
who have NO CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER HOUSE OF THE NAME.
husbands declined to accept the presents until their
wives explained how they had got so much money.
Mrs. Cropper, the American professional beauty,
who has been “starring” in English society, came
down a cropper, the other day, and got her pretty nose
scratched.
According to telegrams in several leading Ameri-
can papers, Bessy Helfman, the Nihilist, whose execu-
tion was deferred on account of her being enceinie, has
been hanged privately.
Betrothal is the condition of a man and woman
who, pleasing to one another and objectionable to their
friends, are anxious to propitiate society by becoming
unendurable to each other.
A lady appeared the other night at a London
theatre in a white satin ulster, with collar and cuffs of
white velvet. The tout ensemble brought down the
house, who thought the fair one had just got out of
bed and forgotten to dress.
The female plaintiff in a divorce case was asked
whether she believed in a future life. " I used to," she
answered, “but since 1 was married I’ve had all the
nonsense taken out of me."
There are, according to the last census, 80,000
widows in India under six years of age I The atrocious
system of early betrothal predestines these children to
life-long degradation and cruel hardships.
A Forbes man got married very quietly the other
morning at day dawn. He took away his bride behind
a pair of high-steppers, and it was noticed that he
managed the reins and the whip very cleverly—with one
hand.
The distinguished African missionary, Dr. Moffat,
says “he has heard ” that the flesh of a young negress
is very good eating. We know a young white sister of
the orthodox faith who tastes tolerably well, if you don’t
draw blood
Swinburne:
You have the face that suits a woman
For her soul’s screen—
The sort of beauty that’s called human
In hell, Faustine.
Mrs. Ferguson, of Goorni, Queensland, has
tamed a large cockroach, which performs numerous
curious feats, including the manipulation of a small
toy drum, with which the insect keeps time to Mrs.
Ferguson’s piano-playing.
“Maiden’s cheek” was the name of a new
colour that the city heard was fashionable. A maiden
ordered a dress of that hue, and the material the dress-
maker furnished her was a kind of sallow yellow, with
polka dots of dark brown.
Between husband and wife the most unbounded
confidence should ever exist j but when the latter
rouses the former up at 3 a.m., simply to tell him that
she's “ going to wash to-morrow, it is carrying the
confidence business to a point where its value begins to
leak a little.
A bashful lover never covets death with more
covetousness than when his best girl asks him to hold her
baby sister. He holds the youngster as if it were built
of very fragile glass, and, with his toes turned in and a
wave sneaking up and down his back, he looks pleasant
enough to eat the infant without gravy.
According to “JSgles” there is a Melbourne wo-
man who, in complaining to a fashionable acquaintance
about the increasing length of her visiting list, said she
had almost made up her mind not to return any calls
unless made with a carriage and pair. The same writer
also says that a certain rich entertainer, of Melbourne,
having secured H.S.H. Prince Louis of Battenburg as
a guest, humbly “ thanked him for his patronage 1”
We learn that a superannuated exercise officer
near Norwich, England, quarrelled with his wife about
religious questions, kicked her senseless, and then
hacked her bead to pieces with a hatchet. And yet,
would it be believed, the poor man was actually arrested
and committed for murder, notwithstanding that he, in
the most straightforward manner imaginable, explained
to the magistrate that it was merely a little domestic
-fracas, and that the accident occurred through his
trying to “hammer the book of Job into her obstinate
head.”
The ground now used for Baltimore (Md.) ceme-
tery was once owned by John Oliver, a wealthy English
merchant, whose only daughter, a beautiful girl of 20,
was loved by a young man whose sole unfitness to
become her husband lay in the fact that a personal feud
existed between him and the girl’s stern father. They
met clandestinely, and planned an elopement. The
father found it out, and gave orders to his servants to
patrol the grounds by night and shoot all trespassers.
Disguised in man's clothing, the girl attempted to
escape, and was shot dead at the gate. The grief-
stricken father gave the entire property to the city for
a cemetery.
A writer in the Jewish Chronicle (London)
says :—“ To a stranger like myself nothing can produce
a more painful impression than the aspect of the Jew-
ish quarter of Smyrna, an impression which can only be
heightened by a due consideration of the manners and
customs of the residents. In the first place, the attire
of the women is repugnant both by its lack of elegance
and of decency. As soon as a girl reaches a certain age
she no longer covers her bosom. This habit, which is
likewise in vogue amongst married women, I had never
been aware of until my arrival at Smyrna. lam bound
to admit, however, that this looseness in dress does not
imply a corresponding looseness in morals, which in
general are very pure among our Smyrniote sisters,
levertheless, this usage is an object of scandal where
the majority of the population have adopted the
European style of dress. The male portion of the
Jewish inhabitants for the most part dress according to
Oriental fashion." There are in Smyrna 25,000 Jews.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
It is alleged that the aborigines of Central
Queensland are taking to opium smoking Late
crushing from No. 2. N. Glanmire, Gympie, gave 506 oz.
from 357 tons At a breaking down on the Eastern
Beef in No. 1 North Phoenix 400 oz. gold was picked
out in specimens, some of which have arrived in
Sydney Last week’s coal export from Newcastle was
30,302 tons The body of a man named Geerge William
Christy has been found at Phillips’ Ponds, in the
Northern Territory. He had been dead about 18
months, and his clothes and swag were all on. He had
a piece of paper and a pencil by his side —showing that
he meant to make some statement when death overtook
him The Borehole miners decline to renew their
special Agreement with the A.A. Co The A.M P.
Society are about to establish a branch at Newcastle.
In dispensing with the services of their local agent,
they presented him with £250 At Brisbane, Buckley,
charged with criminally assaulting his daughter, has
been committed A writer in the Inverell Argus
suggests that in future a duty of £5O be exigible on the
commission of every J.P The Westinghouse brake
has been patented in Victoria Two of the men who as-
saulted Kennedy, the Sandridge publican, sentenced to
9, and the third to 3 months' imprisonment John
Peppard, farmer, Wangaratta, drowned by driving his
dray into a 20ft. waterhole. instead of keeping to the
creek crossing Mr. Gladstone Eyre has presented to
the Y.M.C.A. his large portrait of Bishop Barker
Joseph Rowe, of Hamilton, near Newcastle, while out
shooting parrots, blew off half the middle finger of his
left hand Watty, a Bourke blackfellow, has knocked
his Mary over the head with a niillah-nnilah
At Katherine, S.A., a man named Brodie on returning
to his camp found the blacks in possession. He fired
on but failed to dislodge them. He went to an adjoin-
ing cattle-camp for assistance, and on getting back
found that his mate, M'Namora, was dead, and that the
niggers, who are being followed up, had taken every-
thing, including rifles and ammunition The first num-
ber of a neat little weekly newspaper, The Cosmopo-
litan, published at Goulbnrn, ia to hand. It
goes in for temperance Mr. Rixon, of Bega, is
about to ship for Melbourne 6000 pigs, which have
been fattened in the Twofold Bay district Caldwell
Bros., of Fairy Meadow, Illawarra, killed a bullock,
which, when dressed, weighed, exclusive of tat, 14401 b.
The remains of a man, whose name, from papers
found on the body, is believed to have been W. Ludecke,
were recently found between the Pack Saddle Station
and Wynnaminta and within a few miles of the former.
He had, apparently, been dead three weeks, and had
evidently died in great agony. There was found on the
remains the photograph of a respectable looking
man with grey beard, seemingly between fifty
and sixty years of age, taken by the Photo-
graphic Company, Adelaide, and numbered 4502
Several persons were the other day fined at Wollongong
for taking from the beach cargo from the stranded ship
Queen of Nations An inch screw, which had been
for four years firmly fixed in the upper part of the
nostril of a Wollongong girl, was removed the other
day by operation The warders of Melbourne gaol
presented a handsome gold watch and chain, &c.,
to Mr. J. B. Castieau. on the occasion of
his promotion to the Inspector-Generalship of
Prisons A snuff box, stolen from the late Dr.
Hayley, of Jerabomberra, years ago, was found the
other day by a man who was digging a post-hole. It
has been forwarded to Mrs. Hayley The other day
at Bathurst a man was fined 20s. for being drunk. The
P.M. said he must be a shameless rascal, as his wife
was in a dying state, and he had been pawning every-
thing he could lay hands ou to get liquor When the
Albion left for Auckland there were three doctors
down to examine two and a half passengers The
Sulieman Pasha Co., Ballarat, being now on good
gold, repay to the Victorian Government the £5OOO
advanced them out of the prospecting vote last year.
An application has been made for the taxation of
the bill of costs of Messrs. Hardy and Madden, solici-
tors for the United Hand and Band Mining Company
during its litigation with the Bank of Australasia.
The bill amounts to £6600 At Cooktown, one mer-
chant alone, Mr. J. W. Beardmore, buys £2OOO worth
of beche-de-mer monthly At Lake Dunn, Aramac, a
young girl wandered away and was lost for four days,
during which she walked seventy miles, and was
without food or water. Her tracks were run down
by Mr. George Mander, who brought her on his horse
to Oreyrock, twenty miles from where she was found
It is stated that two men who for many months past
have been at work in the Moonby ranges, and are now
down 130 ft., have struck payable gold. A fossicker in
an adjacent creek has got, with merely a knife and dish,
32dwts. in a day A girl named Ellen Dempster has
been remanded for a week at Melbourne on a charge of
threatening to commit suicide. She said she had been
seduced by her employer, a married man On dit that
a new tin field, with good prospects, will shortly be
opened near Williams’ station, Etheridge road, Mitchell
district... The population of the Tate is rapidly dimin-
ishing A little daughter has been bom to “ Billy"
Little, on the Hodgkinson It is reported that Mr.
Joss’ share in the Herberton p.c., lately sold for £3OOO,
would now fetch four times the money The 561 b.
quartz brought from the Coen by Turner and Reynolds
has essayed 4oz. 13dwts. gold and 13dwts. silver to the
ton The Victorian Mining Department is in a fix for
diamonds for its drills Seven pigs were killed at
Parramatta last week, one of which weighed 5601 b.,
another 5021 b. The other five averaged 3501 b. each.
At Nowra, Mrs. Bishop, an elderly widow, was so
severely burnt through a spark setting fire to her dress
that her life is despaired of. Two large sperm whales
were seen disporting themselves off Captain
Allan’s Hill, Newcastle, on Friday morning last
Miners are returning from Mount Britton in large num-
bers 74 Kanakas, including females, have been im-
ported by Fitzgerald and Co. for their Johnstone River
plantation The other day, as Keeble, a teamster, was
on the downward road from Herberton, the niggers
ate one of his horses while he slept JohnC. Simpkin,
who had issued, at Sydney, valueless paper to the ex-
tent of £175 on the Grafton Branch of the Commercial
Bank, has been committed for trial. Prisoner, a well-
dressed man, was in the habit of flourishing his cheque-
book very vigorously A Government dredge is being
employed deepening the entrance to the Myall River, at
considerable expense. Before long another dredge will
be required to deepen the flat on which the silt is being
thrown. A capital plan this to keep labour employed.
The, N.S.W. Fishing Company’s establishment in
Nelson’s Bay is far from being “ All-alive-oh I” The
fish found it too cold, and have deserted the locality;
lobsters put in an appearance and seem plentiful
The Cotopaxi has brought £26,000 of new silver coinage.
At Adelaide, on Sunday morning, John Dare, 58,
cut his throat while in bed, and died shortly after
So far, 3000 tons tin has been raised at Herberton,
Wilde River Since February, the Hodgkinson has
produced 73000 z. gold John Beaton has died in the
Infirmary from injuries received by him through the
fall of two barrels of cement Collings and party have
banked 40oz. pure gold, in specimens, from the old
Welcome lead, Porkes A rich gold reef is reported
to have been discovered at Bagawa, County Fitzroy, 12
miles from Coil’s Corner The first 75 tons of stone
from Mansfield and party’s claim, Carcoar, averaged
loz. 14dwt The Maryborough-Qympie railway will be
opened on 18th inst Grassmere station, Maranoa,
sold to Millar and Alexander, with stock and plant, for
£ll,OOO cash At Gympie, the 1.0.G.T. are still con-
tinuing the good work with varied success. Three new
"pubs." are now being built within 50 yards of each
other, making a total of 10 within a radius of 100 yards.
Daniel Fahey and John Myers, two miners, have
been instantaneously killed at the 320 ft. level of the
Great Southern mine, Sandhurst, by a fall of quartz ;
two other miners narrowly escaped. Fahey was 35,
and leaves a widow and family; Myers, a young fellow,
was the sole support of a widowed mother.
Trade mark, Waltham, Maas. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Adv.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ W.T.” : Thanks “ F.M.” (St. Kilda) :
People here would hardly see the “hang” of the verses.
“Triton": Somewhat too mystic for us ‘-999”
(Gympie): Thanks. Your last was, we think, acknow-
ledged “J. 8." and “Lucinda”: Too hot. After
all, no other man in the universe could keep such a
paper alive at all in such a city. However, we may
doctor the M.SS., and use it in another form “ Con-
tributor”: Very much obliged, but the fact that you do
not send your name debars us from availing ourselves
of the whole of your communication “ Ecates ": See
“ Poor Player." “Trust”: May do something with
it next week “New Norfolk": Letter posted
“ Phiz ”: We are not yet prepared to tackle that kind
of thing. However, we’ll see that it, or something like
it, does get into print “ C.S.”: Next week, probably.
“ J.H.G.”: A little toe late. Next week, perhaps.
“ Felix ” (Emu Plains): Will consider “ Hay-
donton” : Excellent “Blue Eyes”: While thanking
you very much for the information, we must point out
that it is not our practice to enter into such detail con-
cerning purely private entertainments. If you carefully
read the paper, you will see exactly what we are in the
habit of publishing “ Chinaman " : Keal doggerel
“Mentor”: Received “E.H.Q.”: Had half a dozen
letters about it “Crumpet”: To hand “J.E.C.”:
Good story ; will appear next week “ Zephyrus ”:
Next issue “K.S.”: Received—you should be a little
less personal "R.P.”: Too late—next week
“ F.E.H.”: Held over “ F.D.”: A little too much of
th* monkey “ C.A.N." Received “ M.K.”: Re-
ceived. Will consider “Jessie”: Received. In
future you must send name “E.P.” (Balmain): Next
week “Glenhead F.C.": Too late—should be in
Tuesday Yours, re Princes, mislaid. We
thought, till the last moment, that it had been handed
to the printer, for this issue.
TO READERS AND CORRESPONDENTS.
Great pressure on our reading columns compels us
this week to hold over a great many items of interest.
However, numerous obliging correspondents will have
a show in next issue.


JOHNSTON
SEWING maohin:
HAYMAEKET.
gINGEE’S SEWING :
JOHNSTON’S D
HAYMARKE'
gINGEE’S SEWING :
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s €
JOHNSTOI
IJIHE
LIGHT EUNNING
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HATMA
gINGEE’S SEWING !
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S DE
HAYMAEKET,
The wondeeful
SEWING MACHINES, with
tacking for basting), without the us
without any pulling or pushing of t
very line double seams or fells; will
braid, make their own braid, bind, c
sew on ribbons and trimmings, t
width, make frills, quilt, hem, anc
embroider curtains or antimacassars
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our offices,
trades can be supplied. They are sii
in running, strong, handsome, an
machine may be had on trial, ENT]
CHARGE. Instruction at YOU!
free. Every WERTHEIM Machin
KEPT IN REPAIR and workin
YEARS from the date of purchase,
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO 1
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your c
and inspection FREE OF CHARGI
samples by post. Country ager
liberal terms. BEALE and CO
street, near Market-street, and 6
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastb
Bathurst. No matter in what pari
live, we will supply you with
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM]
INTEREST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION is <
perty (part of the Glen Orchar
of which is not to be found in the
some Twenty-roomed FAMILY RE
on the sunny slopes of the finest ha
the Southern Hemisphere, within
drive, and twenty (20) minutes’ st
City; twenty-four (24) acres of the
tastefully laid out (by the origim
General Taylor) in picturesque plai
several thousands of expensive orna:
paddocks; and several acres of 0
every variety of fruit trees in full be
Outhouses.
The view of sea and land cannot I
Healthiest climate in the world.
The opportunity is a rare one; ai
low. Adjoins the Auckland Stud Co
Address: —
GREAT NORTHERN LAN]
N COMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIE'
This Society provides a certain fixi
members when thrown out of emplt
Medical attendance durirg sicknes
age, and when incapacitated from fol
ment through disease or accident; ai
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence
suitable re-engageme
G
AIE T Y
T a
Leasees Messrs. L. M. Bayless
General Manager '
INTENSE ENT HUS]
ELECTRIC SUCCI
Under the Manage m<
Mr. WYBEET REE
Of Victorien Sardo
GRANDEST PLA.Y OF 1
DIPLOMACY
DIPLOMACY
I
In which Messrs. Eeeve, Titherac
Forbes, Gladstone, Worbold, and
Mayor, Arden, Santon, Howarth a
will appear EVEEY EVENING nnt
MAGNIFICENT NEW SCENE:
APPOINTMENT
Box office and plan at Messrs. Ni
325 George-street.
Private boxes, £2 2s; orchestra c
balcony, 2s; pit, Is.
Manager for Mr. Eeeve Mi
(J 1 H E A T R E
Lessee
Acting Manager Mr.
ENGLISH OPERA COMIQI
under the Direction of Mr. Gee
AN UNQUALIFIED TI
achieved in the production of the la
Offenbach’s work
LA FILLS DU TAMBOUJ
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture a
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, i
chased during the day at H. Solton
King-street, near Emersen’s.
HENRY E. HARWOOD, E
jgT. VINCENT’S
ANNUAL BALL. 1
TUESDAY, 26th J
Under the Distinguished Patrona
sence of
His Excellency Lord Augustus Lofl
Lady Augustus Loftus and Suite
Earl Clanwilliam,* Admiral j and '
Detached Squadron
The Commodore and Mrs. Wilson
Ac. Ac.
THE ANNUAL Bj
in aid of the funds of the above cha
the EXHIBITION-B UILDING, P
on
TUESDAY, 26th JUL
Tickets—Gentlemen, One Guinea; L
WILLIAM E
T. M. SLAT'
ERCANTILE
ROW]
ANNUAL BALI
Under the Patronage of his Excelle:
TUS LOFTUS, G.C.8., Patrc
and
LADY AUGUSTUS L(
His Worship the Mayor (J. HAR
Merchants of Sydi
The SIXTH ANNUAL BALL of
ROWING CLUB will be held
Building, Prince Alfred Park, on
THURSDAY EVENING,
DRESS—PLAIN AND
Tickets—Double, 30s; single (genl
12s 6d —may be obtained from the 1
mittee, and the following houses o;
E. Cantor, Farmer & Co., Elvy A
Peapes and Shaw, and Parrot Bros.
STEWARDS:
The I
Presi
Carl S
Cons
J. Wan
P. A.
V. W.
dent
W. Lai
A. C. G
A. Lan
T. F. 1
J. Men
G. Mui
Chas. 1
J. Pop (
J. See,
T. Stri
f! .1 R
The Hon. James Watson
The Hon. G. Thornton,
President S. R. Club
J. Fairfax, Esq., Commo-
dore E. S. Y. Squadron
F. Want, Esq.
S. H. Hyam, Esq., Commo-
dore S. A. S. Club
J. Alger, Esq.
J. Newton, Esq.
W. M. Alderson, Esq.
E. Hordern, Esq.
D. Marks, Esq.
J. G. Hanks, Esq.
J. Gardyne, Esq.
J. Hardie, Esq.
J. S. Jamieson, Esq.
J. Hinchcliffe, Esq.
P. Sanrla Ulan
The best assorted stock of fancy goods,
gold, silver, paste, and gilt jewellery, to be seen
establishment of E. C. Cree, opposite Town
Goorge-street. —Adv.
also
at the
Mall.
CHOOL OF ARTS.
MONDAY, JULY 18th,
HASKEB’S BENEFIT. HASKER’S BENEFIT.
MONDAY, JULY 18th,
FIRST BENEFIT IN 24 YEARS.
Mr. W. C. Dillon, Mr. Harry Leston, Miss Annie
Taylor, Miss Blanche Grey, and several ladies and
gentlemen have kindly volunteered.
The performance will commence with the beautiful
Domestic Drama, in 2 Acts {by H. T. Craven), entitled,
OUR NELLY.
To be followed by a Musical Interlude.
To conclude with—
CUT OFF WITH A SHILLING.
For full particulars, see Bills of the Day,
Prices —3s, 2s, Is. Reserved Chairs, 4s.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Small-pox hospital being built at Botany.
240 tons Milburn Creek quartz —3200 z. gold.
A good reef struck near Seymour, Victoria.
An Italian Benevolent Society has been formed
In Sydney.
Cotopaxi arrived. 39 days out, including
stoppages.
Population of South Australia, exclusive of
aboriginals, 279.865.
A new bank, the Town and Country, to be
formed at Adelaide.
Mort and Co.’s annual ibig sheep sale begins
this (Thursday) morning.
Australia has 26,842 miles of telegraph, and
Great Britain 23,156 miles.
70 of Tyson’s Gippsland bullocks have averaged
in Melbourne £lO 10s. a head.
Schooner Sophia wrecked at the Heads. She
broke up fast, but no lives were lost.
A meat-freezing company, capital <£20,000 in
£2 shares, has been formed at Wagga.
The sale of frozen English fish in Melbourne
was much more successful than in Sydney.
Stirling Bros., found guilty of libelling the
•editor of the West Australian, fined £5O.
A refractory prisoner, who had broken a war-
der’s nose, was flogged in Darlinghurst last week.
Colley, for the attempted murder of his para-
mour Nightingale, at Melbourne, again remanded.
The Cotopaxi delivered her mails four days
ahead of the P. and O.J.boat, although she left a day
later.
“ Ferret” prisoners to be tried on Monday. Mr.
Pnrves for Henderson, Mr. Moles worth for Wallace,
Mr. Fink for Wright.
Melbourne Corporation to be asked to affirm
that street tramways should be brought under local
governing bodies.
At Honolulu small-pox is gradually dying out.
There had been no cases for ten days prior to the City
of Sydney calling.
A gold-bearing reef, nine feet thick, has been
found by the diamond drill, 1700 feet down at StawelL
This is, indeed, a splendid find.
Forty-two aboriginals have presented a petition
to the Governor asking for grants of land in considera-
tion of the occupation of their country by white men,
Mrs. Rosa Hammond, aged 30, a lady whoso
suicidal tendencies were inherited, poisoned herself
with liniment at Hawthorn, Victoria, Sunday morning.
Mrs. Manting, landlady of the Clarendon Hotel,
Melbourne, and one of her fascinating barmaids, com-
mitted for robbing an intoxicated mining manager of
£33.
At Newcastle, the people won’t buy vegetables
from the Chinese. But they buy them from whites who
procure their wares from Chinese gardeners at a very
low rate.
Fever, which attacked and killed a little girl at
Ipswich, is pretty clearly shown to have been conveyed
to her by a letter that came from a fever-stricken
family up North.
Owing to the new Fisheries’ regulations—cost
of license and restrictions —it is probable that oysters
will ere long be scarce here. The Government are
now very shell-fish.
The returns from those of the Palmer River
reefs which axe systematically worked continue splendid.
A Victorian miner says the prospects are such as would
drive Ballarat or Bendigo wild.
At Cooktown, a meeting decided to equip two
prospecting parties for the MTvor, and for the heads of
the Normanby and Bloomfield. Government to be
asked to subsidize subscriptions.
At Nymagee copper mine, on 3rd inst., a Mr.
Giddings, medical practitioner, was stabbed to death by
a Frenchman, who has been arrested. There was of course
a woman at the bottom of the affair.
As the boy M'Dermott, convicted at Bathurst
of shooting a mare, otherwise bore an excellent
character, he was released on his own recognisances, to
appear for sentence when called upon.
The other night a man who was endeavouring to
bring home a drunken friend by way of Hyde Park,
Sydney, was locked up by the police as a reward for his
pains, and charged with attempted robbery. Case dis-
missed.
At Fitzroy, Melbourne, two horses attached to a
mourning coach returning from !a funeral bolted and
smashed the vehicle to pieces. And yet the poet wrote
of “The fun in mourning-coaches when the funeral’s
done.”
Harry James, an aboriginal, pleaded guilty at
Bathurst, the other day, to having entered a dwelling
and stolen tea, sugar, and apparel. Mr. Pitcairn kindly
addressed the court on behalf of the blackfellow, who
was let oil with three months.
Hitherto the Eastern Market, Melbourne, has
been lighted with gas at ss. lOd. per 1000; annual cost,
£lO5O Now, the Electric Light Co. are giving a far
more powerful light for £930 the first year—a con-
siderable reduction to be made should the contract be
renewed.
A married lady—wife of a magistrate—was
brutally outraged near Orange, the other day, by an
Italian named Omobono. She was returning from the
railway station, and when within half a mile of home
was attacked by the man, who has been arrested and
committed for trial.
There are in N.S.W. 2800 J’s.P., or two to
every policeman, and one to every 50 families. A
perusal of the roll shows, to quote the Herald,
that a great many of Sir Henry Parkes’ last list, num-
bering 239, have been elevated to beakdom as a reward
for political services.
Mr. Armstrong, of Hexham Park, Mortlake,
Victoria, who tried the experiment of shearing long-
woolled sheep twice within the year, has found it a suc-
cess. Wool five months old brought Is. per lb. in
London, while wool nine months old from the same
sheep, realised only 9d.
Eight oases of condemned nitro-glycerine, de-
stroyed three miles from Townsville, extinguished the
lights in one of the streets of that town. A neat cue
this to the probable result of the explosion of the 300
tons of powder, with dynamite, etc., stored at the pre-
sent Sydney magazine.
Mr. John Dickson, of Newcastle, got his little
daughter vaccinated. A cancer then formed in her leg,
which had to be amputated. The father of the child
from whom the girl was vaccinated has since died of
cancer—which, says Mr. Dickson, " clearly proves the
danger of vaccination.”
Forest conservancy is much required in the
Raymond Terrace district. Trees worth a pound a
piece are destroyed for the sake of a sheet of bark
worth one shilling. A Government bite, not bark, is
required. Dray loads of the latter can be seen wending
their way to the Terrace.
Josiah Beatty has been committed for em-
bezzling from his employer, Mr. John L. Hordern,
Pitt-street. Accused said that he had not wasted the
money, but had paid it into a building society. He had
a weekly salary of £5 55., and owned a considerable
amount of house property.
Two more cases of small-pox.—One, that of a
young married woman named Fisher, residing at the
Glebe; the second, that of Grace Monaghan, aged 13,
residing with her parents in Sussex-street. Both
houses have been quarantined, and the infected persons
sent to the Quarantine station.
During the past six months, the North Glan-
mire Co.’s mine, Qympie, has yielded £36,585 worth of
gold, and paid away £28,233 in dividends. The No. 1
North Phcenix paid £27,000 in three dividends. The
stone now about to be put through is expected to yield
as much as any of the previous crushings.
At Tallarook station, on the Victorian N.E.
line, one goods train ran into another. An engine was
damaged, the trucks telescoped, and several others
broken and derailed. The driver of the Melbourne
engine was seriously injured, and narrowly escaped
being scalded to death by escaping steam.
?■ At Richmond, Melbourne, John Bullock was
found dead in a kneeling position by the bedside of his wife
He had smashed her head in with a hammer, nearly cut
her neck through with a knife, and then cut his own
jugular. There had evidently been a terrible struggle.
The pair had for some time been living apart.
On Saturday night, in Oxford-street, a dray-
proprietor, named Culliton, in attempting to cross the
line just in front of the 7.45 Eandwick tram, stumbled
in front of the engine, which instantly reduced his body
; to a palpitating mass of pulp. This dreadful accident
1 occurred in full view of the poor fellow’s wife and four
young children.) ‘ —tlT"* *l3
Petitions in favour of the release of Becket,
convicted of arson, the other day, by a wooden-headed
jury, on the flimsiest of evidence, are in course of
signature. That he did fire his place there’s net much
moral doubt; but even the Crown Law officials are of
opinion that the testimony which convicted him wasn’t
good enough to hang a dog on.
A respectable young fellow, who had been work-
ing in the Collie district for two or three years, was
the other day arrested on a charge of having absconded
from his hired service. He unavailingly protested that
he was not the man. He was handcuffed and brought
to Warren, where it was found that his story was true.
Now who should be flogged for such an action as this ?
Te Whiti, in New Zealand, lately, at a Tangi
made, to the 400 released prisoners and some 3000 other
Maories, a speech which ended as followe“ You did
not hear falsehoods formerly; let now all my people
fall down before me alone. The twelve tribes of Israel
are amongst you. Great are yon amongst the people.
Ton are as heavy stone, not to be moved." What means
this mysterie ?
Hugh R. Stoddart, sentenced to two years’ im-
prisonment at Melbourne for uttering a valueles
cheque, appears to be an accomplished swindler. His
modus operandi was to get goods—either on credit or by
valueless cheques—from Melbourne merchants, and
ship them to a fictitious firm at Dunedin, after having
either pledged or sold the bills of lading to Melbourne
money-lenders at a great sacrifice.
Dr. J. Robertson, a distinguished practical min-
ing engineer from India, visiting the colonies on behalf
of British capitalists, has been out on the Cloncurry,
and expressed himself astonished and delighted with
the mineral resources of the Burke. It is probable his
visit will be the cause of the introduction of a large
amount of foreign capital for investment in Northern
Queensland gold a ad copper mines.
On Ist inst., “pension day,” three veterans
met at a leading Newcastle hotel. Their respective
ages were 91, 74 and 69 years. The first fought under
Wellington at Waterloo, and saw the Iron Duke meet
Blucher. The second saw twenty-two years’ active
service, including the West Indies, North America, the
Mediterranean,&c., whilst the third, a hearty naval pen-
sioner, served through the Crimean, Chinese ani West
Indian troubles.
230 oz. more gold received from Mount Browne,
where, it is said, the least fortunate are making wages.
The Granite rush, 30 miles from Milparinka, has most
of the population. Water has to be conveyed three
miles, and is selling at a shilling a bucket. Great dis-
satisfaction exists because Government neither con-
serves water nor provides an escort. The richness of
the stone got from a two-foot reef is unquestioned;
Experts say it goes 5 oz. An experienced Victorian
says he never saw more uniformly rich stone.
The other day, the newly-appointed Under-
secretary for Lands issued a ukase to the effect that
the customary indulgence by which the officers of the
department had hitherto had the privilege of attending
Parliament, was withdrawn. However, he intimated
that any gentleman who wished to go could do so on
making special application. But at 2 o’clock the Pre-
mier attended at the office, cancelled the mandate of
the U.S., and, it is understood, ordered that the time-
honoured usage which gave the officers a half-holiday
be upheld.
The other day an elderly Park-loafer was
brought up for vagrancy at “ the Central.” When
arrested he was wearing three pairs of trousers, three
vests, and three coats. A coat was tied round his
waist, and in a purse he had 40 farthings, new and
bright, which, it subsequently appeared, he had been in
the habit of passing off to unwary people as half-
sovereigns. He got 14 days’ for vagrancy, a month for
being in unlawful possession of several articles, and he
was committed for trial for defrauding a bootmaker by
passing off farthings as gold coins.
According to the Cooktown Heeald, the
capabilities of the soil, and the excellence of the
climate for ricS: growing, are about to be tested by a
Chinese propose to take 5120 acres of
land in that district, and to introduce Chinese labour
and English machinery. Half the capital is to be sub-
scribed in Cooktown, and the other in Hongkong.
Provision will be made in the deed of incorporation
tor the poll-tax, and the labourers will be engaged for
five years at £2 per month, which with maintenance
will come to about £5O per man per annum. Once more
the Mongolian distances the white.
Almost indescribable excitement has for the last
two months prevailed at Gympie. Nothing is talked of
but scrip. New companies have been floated every day,
and others have had to cease operations, owing to the
scarcity of miners. “How it will all end,” says our
correspondent. “I do not pretend to say. It is clearly
a case of ‘the devil take the hindmost,’ for everybody
takes up claims solely for the purpose of selling."
Which all goes to show that Sydneyites who aren't
practical miners, and don’t know anything about
Gympie, had better not invest just now. Gympie is
the grandest of fields, but even it may be overdone.
Latest accounts from New Mexico, where, by
the way, a number of big Victorian capitalists have
taken up enormous areas for sheep-farming, are of so
decidedly sensational a character that one is tempted
to go there at once and establish an evening paper. The
whole country round the Eio Grande is in a state of
terror. Two brothers, “ Ike ” and “ Port ” Stockton,
have for years, with a gang of kindred spirits, been
making depredations through New Mexico and Texas,
murdering, robbing, and making themselves generally
unpleasant. One day last month “ Port ” Stockton,
whose head quarters were near Farington, entered a
" saloon ” in thatjiown where several ranchemen were
drinking; and, as is customary in the district, every-
body present was invited to “take a drink" under
penalty of being shot on refusal. A ranchman not com-
plying with the invitation, Stockton drew a revolver
with the intention of putting an end to him, but was
immediately shot and killed. “Ike” Stockton, who
was deeply attached to his brother, on hearing of his
death, collected a gang of six or seven intimate friends
and started for Farington, with the avowed intention
of killing every man who was present when “ Port ”
was killed. The militia, we hear, have been called out
to run down Ike. It’s to be hoped that they are a body
constituted altogether differently from the Victorian
permanent force, or the Victorian police.


Miscellaneous
£1 LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFIC S 79 YORK STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
N K 8,
JOHN DA
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pump"*
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
035
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL.
OR
ALLV/OOL
VS?
" “ s el
TO
mss,
Ifis.&L ,
K
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
|e3.Bs.
cut lengths
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
sooopatterns' ochoose 0 choose from
hlsummerfielo
PITT S T SYDNEY.
PATTERNS
AND GUIDE TO SELF MEASUREMENT,
SENT, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
B.
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBUEY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY: Printed and published by the proprietors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at The Bulletin
Office, 13 Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUENS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEOEQE STEEET.
iij urn
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, Ac.
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS* SUNDRIES.
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address—
Ton cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings.
W. KERR,
manufactueinq JEWELLEE,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKEE,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals’of every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTEE!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
/
KING
STREET
m
foßoy
m
v/M-
-am
SYDNE'
TAILOR
°0
'forW,
&
tl
POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
FIT GUARANTEED!
/VU- HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
ABOUR BAZAAR,
FUENITUEE SHOW BOOMS,
237, 239. 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STEEET.
Established a.d. 1840,
A. MOOEE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, Ac., can
be purchased at the LABOUE BAZAAK at
rate than at anv other house in the denies.
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
A I,kXANDES MOOEE AND CO*
Manufacturers and Importers,
AND
THE
has
To the
FRONT
OUR PRICES^
We have
Two Sizes
a§ain
with
£85
£75
the
BEST
but recommend the
larger size as they will
harvest any crops grown
up to 7 feet high.
We will only have 75 for
coming harvest so farmers order
early. Illustrated catalogues free.
OUR WOODS
STRING BINDER
Is unquestionably
BEST ON ALL POINTS
The Woods String Binder
,s won more prizes than al!
other makes put together.
The “ Woods ” is a
Success, not an
experiment
The
“Woods”
is
King.
String^
MARTIN & PAIN, \
389 George St., Sydney.iRINFlFR
We lead in the machinery business I
We post all Information FREE.
MARTIN & FAIN, 389 George St.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS ANT) IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangtb Bros., Birmingham.
-Ill’ ijl
xj rsi
W I 1 I I I I MK- g -1 |
. _■ iiinnw hm-
J'
11,
In
CANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT'S BELLOWS,
TANGTE STEAM PUMPS.
IB BOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LARGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
SHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes.
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
SILVER MEDAL, AWARDED MELBOURNE EXHIBITION, 1881,
TO
EVAN JONES,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER, 9 and 11 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST STAFF OF SKILLED WORKMEN EMPLOYED IN THE COLONY.
ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES FROM £3 10s.
SEND POE CATALOGUE.
BATHS.
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, opposite Palmer-street,
PRACTICAL HAIR CUTTER,
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR - WORKER, STAGE AND STREET WIG - MAKER.
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings of Ladies’ Hair worked as required.
Note the address— Oxford-street, opposite Palmer-street.
PRIZE “IVANHOE” WINES.
VIN CEDIN'ALEE
3/6
PEE GALLON.
' G. H. STEPHEN & CO., '
J Wine Growers and Merchants, >
13 Bridge Street.
FEUITY WINES
5/6
PEE GALLON.
AMERICAN MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO., No. 17 Pitt Street,
IMPORTERS of ALL DESCRIPTION of MACHINERY, HAVE for SALE—
J. A. Pay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working Machinery—Sydney Exhibition, 1880.
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined). Insertion and pure Gum Packing.
Eubber and Leather Belting, Eaw-hide Lacing, Genuine Tucks’ packing, round and square.
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes, Bock Drills, Windmills, Planing Machine Knives.
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil. Eubber Hose —best quality guaranteed —Ac., Ac.
SEND POE CIECULAES AND PEICEB.
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONES.
THESE INSTRUMENTS, combining Edison’s most recent improvements, are now acknowledged
to be the most perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of workmanship,
elegance of design, and non-liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONE
Has been adopted|for the Melbourne, Adelaide, and Brisbane Telephone Exchanges, and by number-
less commercial houses throughout the Colonies.
Telephones without batteries, to speak over any distance, for country use, guaranteed to give
satisfactory results.
H. H. KINGSBURY,
SOLE AGENT,
6 Market Buildings, George-street, Sydney.
