

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s.—No. 59.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 12, 1881.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY MARCH 12, 1881.
THe People’s Maseum.
It was fitting that the attempt to close the
people’s museum in the people’s faces should have
been made by Ninian Melville, coquetted with
by Sir Henry Parkes, and supported by John
Davies. Saints Michael and George have
indeed holy associates in Saint Henry and Saint
John, and it would not be surprising if Saint
Ninian should be another of the companionship
before many years are over. He appears to have
much in common with the other illustrious mem-
bers of the Order. Mr. Ninian Melville,
prospective C.M.G., does not condescend to reason.
He starts with a base of assumptions and demon-
strates anything he likes. There had been, he
affirmed, no benefit derived from opening of the
Museum on Sundays. Therefore, it should be
shut. Granting Mr. Melville’s premises, we
fo entirely with his conclusion. If there has
een no benefit from the opening on Sundays, the
Museum should be closed on that day. But
how is the saintly Ninian to establish his
first position ? How is he to prove that no
benefit has accrued from the Sunday opening ? Can
he show even that there is no reasonable
grounds for believing, that among the
thirty-six thousand people who nave
visited the institution on Sundays, an
aggregate gain of information,expansion
of intelligence with its consequent hu-
manizing effects, has not been achieved ?
If the Museum fails to produce these
effects on Sundays, how can it be ex-
pected to produce them on week days ?
And if it does not confer benefits of that
nature upon those who visit it, wherein
lies its value at all? If people who
inspect the treasures representing
in different forms which are
stored in the Museum are no better for
the inspection, whether it be made
on Sundays or week days, then the
Museum should certainly be not only
closed but abolished altogether. Mr.
Melville perhaps speaks only as
he feels. A terrace of museums might
be inoperative upon his intelligence.
But all our citizens are not Melville s.
Sir Henry Parkes, as a matter of
course, took a higher, a more abstruse,
and at the same time, a shiftier attitude.
As Mr. Reid remarked, he put himself
in a very extraordinary position. First,
he moved the vote for defraying the ex-
penses of keeping the Museum open ;
next he made a speech against it; and
finally, he demanded that Mr. Mel-
ville should withdraw his notice of
motion. Into this one episode he
managed to crowd an epitome of his
nature :
A man so various that he seemed to be
Not one, hut all mankind’s epitome.
But even the veriest trimmer must com-
mit himself sometimes. Sir Henry
committed himself to a definition. A
definition of religious liberty above all
things. Now, a definition of religious
liberty from the mouth of the man who,
in the name of religious liberty, shut
the doors against the astronomer
Proctor —the man who, according to
report, is soon to be Astronomer Royal
of England—is a very precious thing.
Religious liberty, then, according to
the man' who shut out a congrega-
tion by bouncing a theatrical lessee,
surely must consist in avoiding any-
thing which was calculated to shock
religious persons. And by parity of
reasoning, liberty surely must consist in
avoiding anything which was calcula-
ted to shock free persons. Now, if pre-
venting by force or fraud free citizens
from attending the address of a dis-
tinguished scientific teacher was not
calculated to shock free persons, we
wonder what would be. If government
by edict, and when edicts were treated
with the scorn and contempt they de-
served, government by dodgery and in-
timidation be not calculated to shock
every man who has a drop of blood,
not servile, in his veins, we can con-
ceive ©f nothing that would, short of a
Premier’s old hat being stuck up on a poll
for the people to bow to, while a body-guard of
bigots stood round applauding. But it would not
have been Sir Henry had he not qualified one
statement, the moment it was made, with another
capable of being given, if it should prove con-
venient, with an opposite significance. There
are men who, when they are not quite clear which
is the hare and which are the hounds, try to run
with both till they ascertain, and then they
never fail to join the hounds—on conviction. Sib
Henry _ had no objection to people spending
Sunday in any way they liked —a grateful people
will murmur their sense of thankfulness and relief
—hut the Government had no right, he said, to step
in and spend public money to throw open public in-
stitutions. Now we have about six self-contradic-
tions by Sir Henry in this one sentence. In the
first place, if he had no objection to the people
spending Sunday in any way they like, how came he
to prevent people attending Mr. Proctor’s lec-
ture P That was not held in a Government institu-
tion ! Secondly, if the Government had no right to
spend public money for the purpose of opening pub-
lic institutions on Sunday, how came Sir Henry
to move a vote for the purpose? And if the
Government have no right, &c., how comes it that
the lock-ups open their hospitable doors on the
holy day? How comes it that the railway sta-
tions— ?_ but hold! A thought strikes us. Sir
Henry is instinct with the spirit of the age, and
of the Aminadab Sleek species who applaud his
attitude in this matter. He has not declared that
the Government has no right to make money by
opening public institutions on Sundays. That
accounts for the railways and the tramways, and
is in exquisite accord with the spirit of shoddy
religious sentiment which underlies objections
such as are urged against opening the museums.
Sir Henry is discriminative. A postal delivery
on Sunday is good for society ; an open museum
is bad. But we faint in presence of such grand
accuracy of perception.
His Honor Sir James Martin, C.J.
great man without being compelled ?” The
Lilliputians didn’t uncover until Gulliver sneezed
off their castors. No doubt the little men then
made a merit of the circumstance, and having
their hats at their feet, threw them into the air
for the honor and glory of Gulliver. We bow to
our distinguished compeers, because unless we
admit a man, who has stepped before us, to be
something more than ordinary—something worthy
to be bowed to—we admit ourselves to be some-
thing less. Otherwise, how is he before us? If
all men understood that, it would drive Envy and
her ill-conditioned brood out of the world at once.
But few do understand it. The shallow blockhead
cries: “ Yonder fellow, who lords it over us, went
to school with me.” Amiable mediocrity, we
answer: if yonder fellow, then, isn’t a genius,
how very low in the class you must have stood !
“Ah, but subsequent circumstances!” Pshaw!
Circumstance is a right fool’s word. Circumstance
won’t make a great chandler ; it certainly won’t
make a great man. Depend upon it, circumstance
neither puts you behind, nor yonder ruler and judge
in front. Circumstance is a ball to be kicked,
and only children and cravens run out of its way.
Lest these remarks should sound apologetic, let it
be understood they are only introduced to
swamp the veriest twaddle that has ever been
indulged in to disrate a magnificent triumph
over the accidents of birth and an uphill
struggle in the battle of life. Look at
these biographical outlines of a remarkable
career. Sir James Martin was born on the 14th
May, 1820, at Middleton, county Cork, Ireland,
than their deserts; and it is unfortunately one of
the great disadvantages of pre-eminence chiefly
attained through Parliamentary success that a
large number of people (otherwise impartial and
enlightened) will look upon successful politicians
as favourites of fortune, or the outcome of fortu-
itous circumstances. The present Chief Justice
of the colony is in a special manner subjected to
the shafts of this irrational invidiousness.
Through a varied and exciting life in the Legisla-
tive Assembly and in the bureau of a Minister, it
is not surprising that he has made many enemies;
and it is less surprising that those hostile indi-
viduals should carry on a social vehmgericht
against him. The combative elements of his
temperament never allowed him to succumb to
any man, or party of men, and hence the very
small modicum of faith that is felt in the genuine-
ness of his patriotism or the purity of his public
life. Some of this slander on his reputation we
shall presently reprehend, and attempt to indicate
the higher qualities of his mind as well as the
noble purpose he now aims at achieving—to trans-
mit the judicial ermine he has received not only as
immaculate as it came to him, but with a fresher
gloss from his use of it. To begin with a most
obvious truism, he has been a sturdy worker since
he left school in his sixteenth year, and even at
school he was neither a dullard nor a laggard, as
witness the commendations which that venerable
Orbilius, the late Timothy Cape, bestowed on him.
Those who admire perseverance—the robust
philosophy which braces a man to succeed —cannot
refuse to Sir James Martin a tithe of the en-
comiums we bestow on men wbo, in the ordinary
lines of common life, manage to amass fortunes
through the very same quality—dogged deter-
mination to win—exercised by him in the highest
sphere of mental activity. This compound faculty
—the result of pluck and intelligence—was
detected to be the motive power of Sir James’
character by an astute critic many years ago.
“Who,” that writer asks “touches his hat to a
Men who have impressed their individuality on a
generation—men whose public career enters into
the most vivid political experiences of nine-tenths
of their contemporaries—are most difficult “ sub-
jects” for popular pen-and-ink delineation. Their
lives being part of the history of the country, their
shortcomings are more likely to be remembered
and was brought by his parents to this
eolony the year following, where they
arrived on the 7th November. His
early years were spent at Parramatta,
where he received some valuable rudi-
mentary instruction; but it is probable
he did not awake to the consciousness
of superior mental powers till (in his
fourteenth year) he came under the
tutorship of Mr. W. T. Cape, whose
favourite pupil he continued to be for
some years afterwards. He was at
mature age articled to the late versatile
George Robert Nicholls as an “ appren-
tice at law,” and was in due time ad-
mitted an attorney of the Supreme
Court. While studying his profession,
he did not neglect the graces and
amenities of polite literature; and while
still a young man published a small
volume, entitled “The Sketch-Book,”
—a weak imitation of Washington
Irving’s ever-fresh volume, —which did
more credit to the refined sensibilities
of Mr. Martin’s juvenile nature than to
his skill as a litterateur. He subse-
quently wrote for the Atlas, and, later,
for the Empire newspapers, and ac-
quired a rough argumentative style—a
forcible way of putting forward his
opinions, which gained him considerable
popularity, and brought him promin-
ently under the notice of men—the
Conservatives of those days—who could
push him on his way in the world. He
was elected in 1848 to represent Cook
and Westmoreland in the Legislative
Council, and had to fight a hard (but
ultimately successful) battle to retain
his seat. He was unseated, and re-
elected, and gained strength in the
struggle. He was not long firmly es-
tablished in the House before he made
a marked impression on its deliberations
and progress. He began the agitation
there that resulted in the establish-
ment of a branch of the Royal Mint
in Sydney. So far back as 1853 he
endeavoured to win the Southern Bor-
der trade from Victoria by his efforts
to push on railway extension in that
direction, to the temporary postpone-
ment of the other trunk lines. Personal
interests and party combinations were
too strong for this coup. Under Res-
ponsible Government he was re-elected
for his former constituency, and joined
the Liberal party. On the defeat of the
Donaldson Ministry in 1856, Mr. Cow-
per appointed him Attorney-General,
his legal status being then an attorney
of the Supreme Court. The Bar fumed
over this, and several members of the
House stormed at the innovation on pre-
cedent ; but, in a speech of remarkable
force, Mr. Martin defended his conduct,
and succeeded (as he always has done)
in the face of implacable opposition.
His Parliamentary career, with oc-
casional reverses, may be looked upon as
a uniform triumph, because, if defeated
at one crisis, he took advantage of the
first weakness in the lines of his opponents, charged
them unexpectedly, and came again to the front.
He worked with every man of worth m several
Ministries for a deeade of years. Although theo-
retically a Protectionist, he formed Free-trade
Cabinets, and aimed rather at establishing a
strong Government—one capable of carrying
necessary legislative measures—than at making
experiments in fiscal policies. When he felt him-
HIS HONOE SIE JAMES MARTIN, C.J.


self secure, in 1866, he gave full play to his legis-
lative energies, and helped in passing the
Public Schools Acts, the Amended Munici-
palities Act, and other important measures.
The Vernon Training School and the Re-
formatory at Newcastle are evidences of his
ability to grapple with social questions, which
his powerful eloquence put in such a strong
light before the Legislature and the country, that
resistance to his will was always feebly attempted,
and in the end proved a failure. The _ Martin-
Parkes Ministry had the honour of receiving his
E.H. the Duke of Edinburgh when he visited
Australia. The shadowy episode that darkened
that occurrence threw Mr. Martin into an unenvi-
able prominence, which improperly subjected him
to no small amount of odium in certain quarters ;
but he never quailed at responsibility in the dis-
charge of his public duties. After this event he
was knighted, and in 1868 he associated Mr. (now
Sir John) Robertson with him in the Ministry.
Strengthened by this alliance, he resolutely dr ter-
mined to obtain for the colony revenue derivable
from trade over the Southern Border, or an ap-
proximate equivalent in lien thereof. Finding
that Victorian statesmen wanted to play at diplo-
macy, and postpone an equitable settlement of the
matter, he cut the Gordian knot by putting an
end to negotiations, and sending Custom House
officers along the Murray to collect the revenue
belonging to N.S.W. This was a bold stroke of
policy, and one which has proved very advanta-
geous to the colony—in fact it gave New South
Wales that impetus which now places her on a
par with, if it does not make her superior to, the
neighbouring colony, in industrial progress, to say
nothing abouc vastly superior industrial resources.
The retirement of Sir James Martin from public
life in 1874, and his elevation to the Bench of the
Supreme Court as C.J., are events of such com-
paratively recent date, and so generally well
known, that it would be superfluous to dilate on
them in this hurried outline of a busy and distin-
guished career. Whatever may be the whispers
of envy at the success of a great Parliamentary
gladiator, and however keenly political calumny
may censure his party tactics —his alliances and
coalitions—his Colonial Defence movements and
Volunteer Land Orders —since his accession to the
august position which he no w occupies, his learning,
impartiality, and general “ completeness of soul,”
have been amply manifested and universally
acknowledged. He has fully vindicated the fore-
thought which placed him in that elevated posi-
tion, and evidently strives hard to satisfy all the
exactions of justice, tempered with mercy. His
health last year caused serious alarm to his family
and friends; but he appears to have recovered
much of his former energy and activity. His
mental powers appear to be in the bloom of their
maturity, while his patience, particularly in the
trial of criminal causes, is inexhaustible. Those
who still feel the buffets and rebuffs of the politi-
cian cannot —if they are true men —fail to recog-
nise and reverence the manifold virtues of the
upright Judge.
SOCIETY AND FASHION.
Mayor’s ball at Yass on 24th May. 200 invites.
The late Marquis of Breadalbane was the grand-
son of a tailor.
Wife-beating is the favourite pastime of a
solicitor in the Burrangong district.
A well-known and handsome Camden belle is
shortly to be married to a wealthy squatter.
Report says that one of the Murrumburrah
spinsters is likely to accept an eligible partner at Bogo-
long.
A young lady of West Maitland is about to com-
mence an action against a “ gay Lothario” for breach of
promise.
A Temora bank official will shortly lead to the
altar a local belle, after much opposition on the part of
her parents.
At Newtown rink, on Friday last, there was a
large and very fashionable attendance. Ten minutes
rinking ; the rest dancing.
Mr. John Fairfax gave a most enjoyable party
on entering his new house at Darlinghnrst on Friday.
Some sixty guests were present.
A handsome blonde just returned from a visit to
a pastoral homestead in a mining district has had four
offers of marriage and —accepted all of them.
Messrs. Peapes and Shaw have been exhibiting
in their windows this week the styles and colours of
hats and bonnets that art now at the present time all
the rage in London and Paris. N ext .week we will give
a sketch.
A double wedding shortly at St, Andrew’s Scots
Church. The fair ones are the principals of an up-
country young ladies’ college; the bridegrooms—one a
Braidwood squatter, the other a doctor from the
Moruya district.
The other evening, on the occasion of family
birthday, Mr. J. Quinn, the newly-elected Mayor of
Singleton, gave, in the large hall of the local Mechanics
Institute, a most enjoyable ball, to which a large
number of residents were invited.
Dr. H. Ray, eldest son of Dr. Ray, of Collins-
street, Melbourne, was on2sthult. married at St. Paul’s
Church, Rockhampton, to Miss Hannah Lyons, daughter
of Mr. David Lyons, of Sydenham (Brighton-road, St.
Hilda), a lady well-known in Melbourne society.
A daughter of one of our first legal families was
united in marriage to a wealthy foreigner at St. John s,
Parramatta, last week. There were twelve bridesmaids.
The church was thronged with onlookers. The bride
was exquisitely dressed, and a very fashionable assem-
blage gathered at the wedding breakfast.
An Orange belle wore a very pretty costume at
the cricket match on Saturday afternoon. Cream plush
hat, powdered with cream pearls, trimmed with red
birds, and cream feathers; muff to match, with a red
bird nestling in cream lace and bows of ribbon. The
hat was very coquettish, and suited the fair wearer
admirably.
The long-expected and interesting Hebrew wed-
ding, between the daughter of Mr. Montague Levey and
Mr Hart, will take place at the Synagogue on Wednes-
day next. It is to be hoped that admission will be by
ticket and that special places will be reserved for the
invited guests. On recent occasions of a similar nature
the S>nagogue has been greatly overcrowded.
This is the courtly style in which that greatest
and most heroic of Australian navigators, Matthew
Flinders, whose life, by the way, is being carefully
written by Mr. J. J. Shillinglaw, F.EQ.S , of Mel-
bourne used to address his wife. In a letter dated
from “ Isle of France, July 7,1805,” he commences
“ My dear Love,” and after treating very fully of various
matters, concludes thus“ I think, my love, that the
family at Boston are more thy favourites than any
other of my relations. Pray write my affectionate
remembrance to William and his family in particular.
I think Mr. Hursthouse’s family at Tidd, are, upon the
whole, my greatest favourites; and it is their kind and
generous conduct to my cousin Henrietta that has
inclined the balance in their favour: but by so much
the more as 1 love and respect thee above any one in
the world, by so much shall I be most attached to them,
whom, on ray return, I shall find to have been most
kind and attentive to thee. Adieu, my dearest love,
rest confident in the inviolable love and esteem of thy
Matthew Flinders.”
Grose Farm, Pennant Hills, the estate of the
Hon. William Forster, has been purchased by some
Sviin"- capitalists, and is to be offered at auction
shortly.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The friends and supporters of Mr. John Gale
are “ raising the wind.” Their object is to refund the I
£4O deposit lost by Mr. Gale at the late election.
Now that writing is dispensed with, a certain
prominent and servile Government supporter can act I
as teller —a capacity in which, by the way, he has not
hitherto appeared.
One Government official at Yaramanawuntigong
has been removed for partisanship at the recent
election. Another is likely to be similarly dealt with
in a few days. The moral is plain : Civil servants
should be either civil servants or politicians.
The respected Mayor and M.P. at Yarramata-
wondilly has been laid up eight days with gout. Mr.
Farnell has done the right thing in seeking to revolu-
tionise that Parliamentary refreshment room. The
dietary scale ought to be limited to plain joints and
toast-water. Four members “ caved in" with gout
already this season; and they say it’s overwork.
The once-great J. J. (“ King ”) Casey has once
more come out in Victorian politics—this time as a
Berryite. Melbourne Punch represents him as a
barber—the “lightning change artist ’’ —ready to shave
either Mr. Berry or the President of the Council, and
remarks :
“ Figaro here, Figaro there —
Conservative here. Liberal there.
Conservative high. Liberal low.
Liberal come. Conservative go—
Figaro, Figaro, Figaro.”
The big foible of the late M.P. for Croajinga-
longetcetera, is a burning desire for popularity. This
weakness used once to take the form of insatiable do-
mauds upon the Treasury for “public works!” The
opportunity for that gone, he has struck out a new line.
His present hobby is to get the Governor to reside at
Croajingalong; and as to the Governor —well, it seems
that “ Barkis is willin’." This has led;to a complies-
tion, and the Croajingalongites are excited. The ex-
M.P. is a Park Trustee, and in the Park is the house
I which His Excellency wants or, rather, which he
I wants His Excellency to inhabit. The co-Trustees,
however, wont give up the £lOO a-year rental now rea-
lized from the house. The battle wages furiously, and
I the probable outcome will be the reclamation of the
I house and grounds by Parliament for the Governor s
use. That is on the cards at present. The ex-M.P.'s
1 political opponents say that he doesn’t care two straws
whether the Governor goes to Croajingalong or to
Jericho—that he only wants a pretty battle-cry for
I next election.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
And still those people residing at Leichhardt
snbmit to the intolerable local scent manufactory 1
The offer by South Australia of volunteers for
the war in the Transvaal has elicited Her Majesty’s
thanks.
Splendid results reported from the new rush at
Mount Browne, Wilcannia district. Over 3i oz. to the
load. Rush increasing.
Reports damaging to the Temora field daily
appear in the S. M. Herald. They are regarded as
false—the field being a vast and rich one.
Mr Piddington refused to join in the book-
sellers’ picnic. This, it is supposed, is on the ground
that should he “shut up,” the Civil servants would be
inconvenienced.
More Protection! The Victorian Government
intend placing a duty on freestone imported from Syd-
ney, the object being to compel builders to use material
from the local quarries.
The Randwick residents did honour to them-
selves in banqueting in good style Mr. Aid. S. H.
Pierce, who for years now has battled for the interests
and welfare of that prosperous suburb.
The latest particulars indicate that the accident
by which four men of the Cerberus lost their lives in
Hobson’s Bay while preparing to lay a torpedo, was
the result as much of negligence as anything else.
A five-foot bed of rich gold-bearing cement,
exactly like that of the great Hills of Bendigo, was
struck at Temora on Monday. Some splendid speci-
mens from a reef adjacent to the town have been
shown.
Much, success attends the South Coast and West
Camden Districts Co-operative Company, formed for
the purpose of selling and exporting farm and dairy
produce. The capital has been increased to £lO,OOO,
and 750 farmers have joined the undertaking.
During a thunderstorm at Parramatta, on
Saturday last, a railway pointsman was struck by
lightning whilst working his points. He was un-
conscious for an hour, but recovered. Another man
was also struck by the same flash. The bum of his
hat was ripped off, but he was not much hurt.
That clever caricaturist, Mr. Alfred Clint, has
got out a capital sketch of what may be expected to
take place in the Assembly when Sir Henry Parkesand
the Hon. William Forster meet again. The sketch
includes representations of a number of well-known
members of the Assembly, whose portraits are fault-
less.
Mr. R. Blunt Mitchell, the popular police
magistrate at Balranald (who, by the way, is the son
of Sir Thomas Mitchell), has received a cable message,
announcing the death of his uncle, and conveying the
nleasing intelligence that some Scotch estates have been
left to him. Value, it is said, £150,000. Already a
score of applicants for the vacant police-magistracy.
“ A recent advertisement for a junior clerkship
in a Dunedin paper drew forth 103 applications.” So saith
the local paper. The natural question that of course
suggests itself is : how many applications would an ad.
for a senior clerkship have drawn forth P But Sydney s
just as bad. If you advertised for a man to beat the big
drum in the Austrian band, every sixpenny restaurant
cook would beg half-an-hour’s grace to come and apply
for the billet.
M. Emile Zola opposes the plan to erect a statue
to Dumas the elder, so long as greater writers like
Balzac remain uncommemorated. But if such a statue
is erected he would like to have the inscription read :
“ To Alexandre Dumas, because he was a good fellow,
because he kept us amused, because he was the father
of Alexandre Dumas the younger.” Commenting on
this. Jules Noraic, the pleasant chronicler of Le
Monde Illustee, says: “If one thousand men had
never read either, eight hundred would vote for Dumas,
and two hundred for Balzac. But if these one thousand
men had read the two authors, nine hundred and fifty
would vote for Dumas, and fifty for Balzac. This
is paradoxical, but probably true.
In our last issue a paragraph appeared convey-
ing that Mr. John Hourigan, J.P., had taken part in
adjudicating in the well-known “Dimond” licensing
case and that he was one of the justices who have
been called upon by the Colonial Secretary to explain
their conduct in regard thereto. We now learn that
Mr. Hourigan not only did not adjudicate when the
license referred to was granted, but that he as a matter
of fact had nothing whatever to do with the case at
any stage of the proceedings. It is therefore not true
that he has been called upon by the Colonial Secretary
to “ explain" his conduct as a magistrate. We regret
exceedingly that the statements in question should
have been published—more especiailly as no aspersion
cwn be oast on Mr. Hourigan’s character either as a
magistrate or as a citizen.
Foster’s ale is increasing in its sale in Sydney
and all over the colony.
Messrs. Thompson and Giles have just opened
one of the finest lines of goods in fashionable costumes,
&c. t yet seen in this city.
Mount Victoria is proving itself the sanatorium
of the colonies; and it is fortunate that it should have,
in the Imperial Hotel, one of the largest and best-
conducted hostelries to be found out of Sydney or Mel-
bourne. For the last twelve months the hotel has re-
ceived splendid patronage. His Excellency Lord
Augustus Loftns and suite were again last week on a
visit to the Imperial. His Excellency has expressed
himself as greatly pleased with the hospitality ex-
tended to him during his stay.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Agrarian murder in Westmeath.
Negotiations for peace at the Transvaal.
Tone of the Irish Land League unchanged.
Forty persons arrested in Ireland for sedition.
Heavy calendars, principally agrarian outrages,
in Ireland.
General Sir Archibald Stuart and General Sir
Frederick Roberts created baronets.
Monster meeting of the Irish Land League on
the 6th, without any breach of the peace.
Tempestuous weather and floods in Scotland.
Hundreds of lives lost. Numerous shipwrecks.
Terrible earthquake at the Island of Ischia, off
the Bay of Naples. 100 persons killed, and large
number maimed.
English Board of Trade Eetnrns exhibited a
three million increase in the imports, and quarter of
million in the exports.
The week’s armistice for the Basutos having
expired, hostilities were renewed. Heavy rains avert
the progress of operations.
Coercion Bill for Ireland passed through all its
stages in the House of Lords, in two days. It has
j received the Eoyal assent.
Carrying of Arms Bill for Ireland passed its
first reading in the Commons, March 1. This measure,
with the Supply Bill, was declared urgent by the
House.
How She Dyed for Him.
Thk scene of this is laid in New Caledonia. He was a
distinguished official. She was a bewildering creature.
And he loved her, despite his other establishment. And
she loved his money dearly. He was a very tall and dapper
man, and the admiration of the New Caledonian aristo-
cracy. He had a long body, and short legs; but what
he lacked in length in the latter, he made up in breadth
and depth of shirt collar. And he loved her. He was
a high-souled man—an aesthetic. Her skin was mar-
vellously fair; but her hair was chesnut. He had an
eye for art, and he liked this not. She had an eye for
money; and what he loved, she adored. She had a
perceptive brain. “ Artaxerxes,” she cried,“a straw-
coloured costume I love and you, too. Give me the
former —I have already the latter—and I shall dye for
yon.” And he gave her the costume—docking, en
revanche, the family milk-bill. So she dyed (her hair)
for him and he lives for her. N.B. For solution of this
mystery apply to the New Caledonian executioner.
One night last week some of the good folks of
Wascoe, while awaiting the arrival of the down pas-
senger train at their platform, happened to glance into
the waiting-room. To their horror and surprise they
there beheld a man suspended by the neck from the
roof. The ghastly spectacle produced the usual amount
of blood-curdling and hair-bristling among the unfor-
tunates on the platform; and, terror stricken, they
huddled together in a far corner. Presently the up
goods train hove in sight, and they succeeded in
stopping it, although not until it had gone some
distance past the platform. The guard, however, on
hearing the dreadful news, refused to alight from his
stronghold—the brake-van—but he promised to let the
Penrith police know of the affair. The down passenger
train soon afterwards reached the platform ; and the
guard, learning that a man had hanged himself,
cautiously approached the waiting-room, and standing
outside, let his lantern shine upon the supposed victim.
Trembling in all his limbs, and with a voice full of
emotion, he exclaimed, “ My God, it is a hanged man !”
A passenger’s bag having been left inside the waiting-
room, the guard was impelled to “go for it.” He then,
it seems, discovered that the case was one ot “ dummy
suspension but, instead of taking possession of the
figure, he left it hanging, and went on his way by train.
Some two hours afterwards, the Penrith “ Roberts ”
arrived by the down mail train with a stretcher for the
body. They had arranged for an inquest to be held the
next day; but when they entered the waiting-room,
they found everything in statu quo. Apparently the
perpetrators of the grim joke (as the Old Lady op
Hunter Street puts it) had cut down “ the man of
straw,” and sloped down the mountains with it, for
nothing has since been heard of him or it.
The Hotel de France Dining Booms, Castle-
reagh-street, nearly opposite the Royal, are built on a
new plan with respect to ventilation Ac., and the tables
are as well kept as any in the city.
Mr. Charles Huenerbein, the promising young
pianist, has just published the “ Rodondo Schottische,”
dedicated to Captain J. R. Clarke, of the Rodondo.
The piece is well arranged, and runs in capital style.
The attraction [of Pitt-street just now is Mr. J.
Menton’s windows (late Mr. Webb’s). Mr. Menton
appears to have got direct from London and Paris,
much more quickly than is usual, the very latest
fashions.
The American Novelty Company’s Estab-
lishment.
A visit to the establishment of the American Novelty
Company will very quickly show that, while we in these
colonies are in the first rank with respect to physical
exploits, we are many years—full half a century
—behind the Americans in those branches of art
and science which are allied to the comfort and
prosperity of a people. In these colonies, most of our
glories are those of muscular accomplishment, while
the renown of the Americans is the triumph of mind
oyer matter—of the exercise of the inventive and con-
structive faculties—by means of which the labour
of the human hand is saved, and life stripped of
half its difficulties and inconveniences. The electric
wire may flash the news of a victory for the Australian
on the Thames or elsewhere, but the Americans still say
“Why, in your city, you have one of our establish-
ments where any man may see that we are a straight
century ahead of you in solid practical skill and useful-
ness.” There can be no doubt of the truth of this,
and it is certainly to our common advantage that the
truth should be known. The American Novelty Com-
pany exhibit articles which have been in use in America
for the last thirty years, but which are actually unknown
here; and when it is found that these are labour-
saving articles, the result can easily be estimated.
Since the Company established business here—four
years ago—they have given a lift te the households of
this colony that can hardly well be estimated. They
have educated the people out of the eighteenth
century hum - drum style, and introduced them
to the products of the inventive age of the
nineteenth century. >The head office of the firm is in
Market-street, San Francisco, under the able manage-
ment of Mr A. S Spence, who started the first branch
in this city, about four years ago. The business here grew
quickly. More extensive premises were taken in George-
street, and certain alterations for the new Arcade hav-
ing to be done, the firm took advantage of the change
of Riley Brothers’ Pitt-street business, and leased
the splendid premises occupied by those well-known
drapers, adjoining the old Victoria Theatre. This
edifice, after extensive alterations, has proved itself to
be about the most suitable to be found in the city. It
has large, well-lighted windows, and the interior forms
an arcade superior to anything else of the kind to be
found in the colonies—and quite equal to the head office
of the firm in San Francisco. It is brilliantly lighted,
well ventilated, and has a very cheerful aspect. Large
numbers of visitors are daily to be seen inspecting the
goods, as facility is offered for that purpose, every
person being allowed to roam at will over the premises
to see what novelties are on display. It would be im-
possible to attempt an enumeration of these novelties,
and reference to a few of them must suffice. An effec-
tive little appliance, costing about 125., is the new
music-turner. The wonder is that this invention was
not years ago adopted; not only are the leaves of the
music piece preserved, but the operation of turning
them is done quickly, neatly, and safely. A neat little
silver-white casket, with appliances for cleaning silver
and electroplated ware, is shown in connection with a
host ot articles for the household, including tea imd
coffee infusers and strainers, in nickel silver, broiling
and toasting appliances of a description hitherto un-
known here. Then there are other things for the
household, in the shape of that wonderful little Em-
press sausage machine, costing about 10s., and other
appliances for mincing meat and vegetables, beating
steak, &c. Then there is the Gem washing machine,
costing only Is., by the aid of which three times the
usual amount of work is done. Not the least attractive
and practical article exhibited is the new patent swing,
for children, with trapeeze attachment. This appliance
can be screwed between the jamb of a door, and a swing
capable of holding twenty stone is improvised ; it
has rubber ends, and in no way injures the paint or
veneering on the door-posts, and of course can
be easily put up or removed. One of the articles
upon which there is a great run just now
is the burglar alarm money drawer, a most ingenious
appliance by means of which an alarm is rung
when touched by a hand unacquainted with the
number of the lock. In one house in this city one of the
drawers served te detect a thief the day after it was
fixed. Among the household articles should be men-
tioned a neat set cf soldering tools, pearl cement, and
the chest of tools for household work. Of the crown
plaiter and majic kilting machine, sufficient is already
known, and the demand for them continues. The
electro motor teething necklace is a great novelty and
a great nursery boon; the; pain experienced by cbii
dren in teething is actually removed by this simple
necklace; it is a German invention, and is used in the
German Royal families. In the shape of musical
instruments] the celebrated Bridgeport organs, zithers,
and music boxes, half the usual cost, are shown; and
there are likewise appliances for a variety of games tor
Fischer in a Scott.
A BULLETIN BALLAD.
There were two men, and each one had
A mind most analytic;
One was a critic’s husband, and
The other an “art-critic.”
It came about —these things occur
We hardly do know how, sirs—
That the “ art-critic” said he thought
*ll critics should wear trowsers.
(We may remark, altho’ the point
We don’t say’s really vital,
That that “art-critic” was self-dubb’d
So far as went that title.)
His name was Edwin Lewis Scott
(No name in glory richer!);
The lady’s husband he was call'd—
Let’s^see—ah, yes—Carl Fischer.
They met, at length—oh, thrilling scene I
It was a tableau grand.
’Twas at the Garden Palace when
Performed the Austrian Band.
One sat by his angelie spouse,
Whose genius Scott’s surpasses ;
The other was alone, and wore
A clean white tie and glasses.
The concert’s o’er —when with a scowl
—No scowl, sirs, could be meaner—
The husband ups, and to Scott sez,
“You mug 1 you’re a niaeteener.”*
•• For two pins, I would pull your nose.”
(Scott knew him to be the stronger.)
Then quoth that hero, “ Sir, I don’t
Want my nice nose made longer.”
But Carl was riled, and proved himsalf
A well-accomplished wrangler;
In fact, for a good quarrel that
Bold Fischer was an angler.
The case came off before the “beak,”
The jokes that day were rum ’uns.
For Scott he’d paid his four-and-aix,
And served Carl with a summons.
The Court considered the case proved,
But thought Scott, too, a ninny.
And fined the spouse of Sappho in
The sum of one large guinea.
The verdict of the public is—
(Our space, alas! so sparse is)—
That plaintiff and defendant are
A simple pair of trousers.
* Slang translation of actual expression.
That Unhappy Speaker.
He gets a decent salary—this mnch I certainly admit;
But it is also very clear he.isn't overpaid a bit.
The stranger comes—the stranger go .»—reporters even
have their share
Of “ watch below,” but he mus'. sit, a sort of fixture to
his chair.
And when a lively member calls another member
naughty names,
He has no power to gag the lad, or make him qualify
his games.
Accomplished men like M’Elhone may pelt the House
with oaths in Greek;
But Mr. Speaker, tied to form, is just the gent who
cannot speak.
It really seems a matter hard, that people talking on the
floors
Of yonder House should have the power to pickle
people out of doors
And call each other shady names. To me it often has
occurred
That “ruffian,” in a certain sense, is—well, a most
improper word. _ .
I do not think that senators, in speaking to the Chair,
should vent
Such charming terms as “ rogue ” and “ brute to any
very vast extent. .
It is a pity, but a fact —the Speaker cannot stop the dm
Of certain gents., because he has no power to waltz a
“ bobby” in.
He has to sit and hear it all; and one may honestly
Now Dave and Mao are in the “ shop,” he has no little
load to bear;
Dave isn’t strictly classical, and Mac s expressions
lack in grace; . . ~ .
And, when they pepper anyone belonging to the human
They utter sundry striking words, and it’s pretty plain
to me
These words are absent from all books whose subject is
theology. . , .
And hence the pious gentleman who occupies the chair
must find
A slight oppression frequently upon his really proper
I mind.
I’ll own this much —he hasn’t been as yet the witness
of a fight;
Though two nice members nearly came to fisticuffs the
other night.
The English language is a thing I’ve held in veneration
long; ,
But Dave’s selections from the same, and also Mac s,
were rather strong.
Indeed, now both are in a state of mind that s tanta-
mount to calm,
They’ll not deny their recent nouns were far too warm
• to suit a psalm. .
And, seeing that the Speaker goes to chapel and is
orthodox.
He must receive in divers ways some very inconvenient
knocks.
This little song, as you’ll perceive,’ throughout with
careful words is packed :
I drew it mild because, my friends, the libel law’s an
ugly fact.
There’s not a phrase in any part of this delightful ode
of mine
In which the elements of grace and tender feeling do
not shine.
If I have “ slated ” two or three, the gentle reader at
a glance .
Will see I’ve done the business with a certain touching
elegame.
Here let me pause. Unhappy knight, yon draw a very
decent “ screw,”
But I who smoke a penny pipe am better off by far
than you.
THE MOPOKE.


OUT FOR
BAILY & HORTON’S MINSTRELS.
B
ATHURST CRICKET GROUND.
CELEBRATION OF ST. PATRICK'S DAY,
THURSDAY, 17th MARCH, 1881.
GRAND PROGRAMME OP ATHLETIC SPORTS
at Bathurst,
To Celebrate St. Patrick’s Day,
including
ST. PATRICK’S GRAND HANDICAP,
Prize £4O,
to he run for in three events, at 100, 125,150 yards.
Entrance, 2f>s.,
And a number of other interesting events.
Entrances for St. Patrick’s Grand Handicap will
close on WEDNESDAY, the 9th March, at 7.30 p.m.,
to be sent under cover to the Secretary, at Stapleton’s
Hotel George-street, Bathurst. Competitors to send
their performances for the past twelve months, and to
name their colours Handicaps will be published on
Saturday, the 12th March.
JAMES KELAHER,
Hon. Secretary.
w
INDSOR CRICKET CLUB.
ANNUAL PICNIC
TO TENNYSON
On SATURDAY, March 26.
A first-class band engaged.
Steamers leave Woolloomooloo Bay and Circular
Quay. Tickets, Is 6d each.
OUT FOE
BAILY & HORTON’S MINSTRELS.
MISS MAGGIE FORD OPEN FOR EN-
GAGEMENT as “SOUBRBTTB.” from 26th
March, 1881. Address,
GAIETY THEATRE.
WANTED, TWO LADY PROFESSIONALS
to play with the Maitland Amateur Dramatic
Club on the nights of the 6th, 7tb, and Bth April, in
the drama, “ Waiting for the Verdict.” Apply, stating
lowest terms (less expenses) to W. U. KEL LY, Manager,
West Maitland.
Professional Addresses
M
E.
Z
E.
S. LA
ADDRESS :
Professional—Theatre Royal.
Private —“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra
M
R. J.
R, GREVILLE.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
Mr. l. m. b a y l e s s.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
ME. FRED. MARSHALL.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MISS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October —Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
MR. & MBS. HARRY W. EMMET,
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
Mr. m. s a l a m o n.
ADDRESS .•
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
MISSES ALICE AND CONSTANCE
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS:
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
M
E. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
H I
LIP STUART,
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street. Sydney
M
E. J.
C. WILLIAMSON,
ADDRESS :
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
REMOVAL.— CHARLES GEITZ, Manufac-
turer of RUSSELL’S COOKING STOVES,
REMOVING to OFF No. 517 GEORGE STREET.
FOR SALE, Siebe, Gormon, and Co.’s Improved
Diving Dresses, &c., per s.s. Aconcagua, Diving
Gear, Piping, Underclothing. Solution, Prepared Can-
vas, Belts and Knives, Couplings and Springs, Leads,
Boots, Helmets and Overall Dresses, and every requisite
for submarine diving. Also Henke’s Diving Gear. W.
BAYLISS, 1 Hamilton-street.
□
L D
EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
66 JT IS A WELL-KNOWN PACT” THAT
for Household or Famiiv Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s” Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porium on the Brickfield Hill has “No Rival,” either
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock.
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening out
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
B
L A N K E T S.
BLANKETS.
“FIRST SHIPMENT OF THE SEASON’
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Anstra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE, FULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
“ Competition defied.”
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
A.S.N. CO.’S WHARF.
Sydney, March 1,1881.
I have much pleasure to inform my CONSTITUENTS
and the GENERAL PUBLIC that, in consequence of
the large INCREASE in my BUSINESS, I have ar-
ranged with my brother, Mr. WM. WILKINSON (late
manager of the KIRK TON VINEYARD), to act in
conjunction with Mr. MURRAY, in SYDNEY,
I am now in a position to largely EXTEND my
VINEYARD, and devote the necessary time to the
growth and maturing of my WINES.
ADDITIONAL CELLARS
have been engaged in a central position, and will
SHORTLY be ANNOUNCED.
I am pleased to again have an opportunity of thank-
ing my NUMEROUS FRIENDS and SUPPORTERS
for their very LIBERAL SUPPORT during my BUSI-
NESS CAREER in Sydney.
JOHN A. WILKINSON.
OOK OUT FOR
BAILY & HORTON’S MINSTRELS.
T
HEA T R E
E O Y A L.
... Mr. Sami, Lazar
... Mr. G. L. Goodman
Leasee
Acting Manager ...
Engagement of the moat Popular and Successfu
Artistes that ever vis'ted Australia,
Miss MAGGIE MOORE and Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS OF THE GRAND REVIVAL.
THIRD WEEK OF OPERATIC PINAFORE !
MISS MAGGIE MOORE as BUTTERCUP.
DRESS CIRCLE, ss; STALLS, 3s; FAMILY
CIRCLE. 2s; PIT, Is.
Seats can be secured at Elvy and Co.’s, 321,George-st.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
U E E N ’ S THE A T E E.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and
Greville.
JENNIE WATT-TANNER,
This Evening,
In the adaptation from Miss Braddon’s popular work
AURORA FLOYD,
To be followed by the
PANORAMA of the sea-trip to and from the
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE EXHIBITIONS,
illustrated bv
Fifty TRAINED JUVENILES.
1. The SYDNEY EX HI ixION as seen from the deck
of H.M.S. Galatea. Flag Hornpipe.
2. SYDNEY HEADS—RifIe and Manual Exercises of
Marines.
3. SHIP on FIRE.
4. GABO ISLAND and CAPE HOWE; storm effects.
5. WILSON S PROMONTORY. Cutlass Drill by Sea-
men.
6. CAPE SCHANCK. Nautical song. Miss Kate Foley.
7. POET PHILLIP HEADS. Bayonet drill by
Marines.
8. MELBOURNE EXHIBITION by night. Grand
Juvenile Finale and Chorus to First Part,
Babies on our Block.
A few minutes interval.
And concluding with the grand animated Tableua,
BATTLE OF TRAFALGAR.
The Death of Nelson.
G
AIE T Y
THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager., Mr. L. M. Bayless.
Unprecedented success and enthusiastic Reception of
the EMINENT PIANIST and COMPOSER,
KOWALSKI.
8
MARCHE HONGEOISE
Will bo repelled by special request.
This Evening, and until further notice.
Box plan at Messrs. Nicholson and Co.’s, George-st.,
where tickets and seats may be secured. Prices as
usual.
J \MES D COX, Treasurer.
C H 0 O L O F ARTS.
Lessee Mr. W. H. Thompson,
LAST NIGHTS. LAST NIGHTS.
Positively the Last Night, but TWO,
of
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR
of the
WAR IN ZULULAND.
Patronised during the last Four Weeks by
30,000 persons
Notwithstanding the immense success of this Enter-
tainment, the Proprietor, in returning thanks for the
liberal patronage extended, is compelled to announce
this as
POSITIVELY the LAST WEEK,
as the Company leave on the 14 h lor New Zealand,
via Launceston and Hebart.
THREE LAST AIGHTS of the
MONSTER GIFT PRESENTATION
of
SUITES of DRAWING-ROOM
FURNITURE,
PIANOS, GOLD WA TUBES, &c„ &c.
Recipient of Suite of Furniture on Tuesday Evening
—Mrs. Carmichael, Hill-street.
FRIDAY, Mar* 11,
Complimentary Benefit to
ME. W. H. THOMPSON,
on which occasion he will
GIVE AWAY
his well known
BUGGY HORSE
Wat
New Warrior.
ADMISSION—3s. 2a, and Is.
Doors open at 7.30 p.m., Overture at 8 sharp.
SATURDAY, March 12.
FAREWELL MATINEE,
for the convenience of Schools and Families, when
every child attending will receive a Parting Gift.
Admission —Children, front seats. Is; second seats,
6d; Adults—Front seats, 2s; second seats, Is.
Tickets for all parts of the house can be had atJKirby’s
Musical Warehouse, Pitt-street
Sole Proprietor and Lecturer,
ME. W. H. THOMPSON.
PHILIP STUART, Agent.
s
GHO O L
O F
ARTS.
Commencing
MONDAY, March 14th.
Mr. and Mrs. HEWITT,
the
Strictly refined and fashionable Drawing Boom
Entertainment.
The dresses and costumes for this Operetta are soma
of the most costly and beautiful ever seen on the
Sydney stage.
THE MUSIC WAS NEVER EQUALLED,
Comprising
Cornet, Violin, Clarionette, Flute, Flageolette, Picalo,
and Piano Solos.
COMIC and SENTIMENTAL SONGS.
NEW and INSTRUCTIVE SKETCHES.
EVERYTHING NEW.
Tickets may be had at Mrs. Kirby’s Book Store,
opposite Farmer’s.
Admission3s., 25., Is. Commence at 8 p.m.
H. HEWITT,
Manager.
OK OUT FOR
Y & HORTON’S MINSTRELS.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedings will be taken against person copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. —Any.
the household, such as the new top-teetotum game,
parlor croquet, and parlor billiards and bagatelle, which
£re procurable in reality for a mere bagatelle. Gas
stoves at 2s. 6d. each are shown. In clocks, as is well
known, the Americans ‘‘lick creation," and here are to
be seen all the best styles and makes. In work boxes
eyen greater novelties are shown, and a more suitable
present for a lady could hardly elsewhere be found. In
wall papers, the best American designs are on show
for the first time here, and they are really
elegant. In tricycles, for boys, the Ameri-
can Novelty Company are untouched, the dura-
bility and effectiveness of their make having been fully
tested. In rocking-horses, the house may be said to
occupy the first place in the colonies, and here the
enterprise of the men who conduct the Sydney branch
may be seen. They seized an expert hand as he was
passing through the city, set him up in business, and
now we have articles of the above description made
cheaper and better than the imported. One of the
novelties in this line is a large rocking-horse, with
wicker baskets at the end of the rockers, for young chil-
dren. Stationers’ hardware, such as ink-bottles of
every pattern, clasps, files, etc., have a very large sale,
as have also the articles of electro-plated ware, cruets,
etc., which are of white metal electroed, and are im-
pervious to injury. In the new article, celluloid, a
host of things is shown, such as collars, cuffs, shirt-
fronts, thimbles, combs, purses, hair-combs, etc.
Folding-chairs for lawns are sold at 65., and stove
ornaments for a song. The Eagle metallic hair-brush
is exhibited in many beautiful designs, and are certain
of a great sale. Telephones for offices and manu-
factories, at 10s. each, are an attraction. In toys, the
firm takes pride of place, and not only do the toys on
ghow here give amusement to the mind, but they in-
struct it also. Foi instance, there are several hundred dif-
ferent varieties ofjminiature steam appliances—loco-
motives, steamers, “sawing machines, pumps,—and
mechanical appliances without end. Even to the
books for children does this ingenuity exhibit itself,
all the books being mechanically constructed to effect
a transformation scene. It is thus that the opening
intelligence of the American juvenile mind is quickened
and developed, and it is not a matter of wonder that the
people should exhibit such marvellous inventive and
constructive ingenuity. The establishment in this
city is under the management of Mr. E. A. Little, who
extends to every visitor a most cordial welcome, and is
ably seconded in this respect by a very active, obliging
staff of ladies and gentlemen. It is almost needless to
say that an hour’s visit to the establishment will prove
both interesting and instructive.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Mr. John Riddoch has bought Glencoe Station,
S.A., for £253,000. At Cooma recently a man was
sentenced to fourteen days’ imprisonment for allowing
bis horse to remain ten hours without food or wate^.
Mr. L. Markham, a very old resident in Armidale,
is dead. In a case heard at Hay, the other day, the
plaintiff admitted that he had been thirty-five years in
c ao l. -The wife of a Yass publican has been com-
mitted for trial for ‘‘larceny by finding.” The latest
a criminal action for libel on the tapis in happy
Grafton. Mr. De Courcy Browno, the well-known
author of “ The Digger’s Handy Book,’ is now at
Temora. The Nelson Colonist suggests that ‘‘one
million Sepoys should be shipped to Ireland to restore
order there.” At Dubbo, a carrier named John
Poley, who had beaten his horse with a stirrup iron,
and wounded it terribly, was sentenced to a fortnight’s
imprisonment. A trustful man at Cowra. He was
going to be married, and sent the wedding advertise-
ment to the papers before the commencement of the
ceremony. Upjohn, the Victorian executioner, was
about to flog a larrikin the other day. When the culprit
saw the flagellator holding in his hand a bunch of willow
slips, he yelled lustily. “ Quiet, my boy,” ejaculated
Upjohn; “it will do you good.” Two very big and
ugly stone statues have been placed outside a bank in
Collins-street, Melbourne. It is alleged that a Yankee
medicine vendor was, the other day. kicked out of the
place for offering the manager a large sum for
permission to stick a liver-pad, by way of adver-
tisement, on the stomach of each effigy.
The late Commissioner for Lands reports on a new
route to the diggings at Mount Browne, in the Wilcan-
nia district. Numbers continue leaving en route for
Mount Browne diggings—some by steamer, others di-
rect by coach and on horseback. Wright, Heaton &
Co. offer £lOO bonus for the first four teams going
direct to Mount Browne diggings from Bourke. East
Indian, Hy. Hoyt, committed suicide at Temora.
Fragment of a lifebuoy, with the letters “Lenelg”
written upon it, picked up Noosa Heads, Queensland
coast. Mr. Armit, Government Engineer at War-
wick, seriously injured by a trolly accident. Queens-
land insurance companies and the Government offering
£4OO reward re the fire at Petrie’s Bight. One thou-
sand shares of £lO each is the new arrangement of the
Frogmore Copper Company. The men concerned in
the Bargo Brush affair, who have endured from 17 to 18
years’ imprisonment, are now being released. One of
them, Michael Slattery, who went in at about 18 years
old, now looks like a man of) 60, his hair having com-
pletely disappeared from both head and face. An eel
of 261 b. weight has been caught at Menangle, on a set
line. Those who saw the monster described its head as
having been like a bulldog’s. Among those who have
set ®ut for the new diggings at Mount Poole, is Mr,
Perrier, lately of Sydney, and now editor of the Cen-
tral Australian (Bourke). A patch of about 150 oz.
of gold has been got from the break between the 338
and 400 feet levels in the North Glanmire claim,
Gvmpie. 131 tons of stone from the Golden Crown
claim, Gympie, has given the extraordinary yield of
21860 z. 16dwt. of retorted gold, which, when smelted,
weighed 21400 z. 14dwt 12gr. of bar gold. An action,
Q.N. Bank v. A.S.N. Co., for the recovery of value of
gold alleged to have been lost, has commenced at Bris-
bane. The Leichhardt left Brisbane for Sydney on
the 7th, with 10,1890 z. gold. Three heavy thunder-
storms and two severe hailstorms in Parramatta on
Tuesday. Two men, four trees, a house, and four
horses struck by the lightning, the thermometer all
the while registering 96 deg. A nice town this to live
in. And yet they’re trying to beguile the Governor up
there. It is estimated that the flying-foxes destroyed
upwards of a quarter million bushels of fruit in the
county of Cumberland during the past season.
K. Heari Kowalski at the Gaiety Theatre.
The attendance at the third recital was much better
than on the preceding evenings. M. Kowalski was well
received, and each of his selections evoked rapturous
applause. As a composer for the pianoforte, M. Kowal-
ski’s fame is European. He is a pianist of the old
school of Moscheles, Hummel, and Henri Herz —quite
distinct from the modem school of which Rubinstein,
Liszt, and Ketten are exponents. His talent is chiefly
shown by his intricate execution, his ornamentation of
a theme, and in his marvellous powers as an improvi-
sators. There is a commendable absence of the man-
nerisms which distinguished his talented predecessor;
and his selections not being so generally classical as
Ketten’s, his recitals should, and we predict will, be-
come more genuinely popular. He plays de haut en
has, for all hearers ; his aim being fully to develop the
genius of his instrument, which is a splendid grand
rom the factory of Phillippe Herz. The recital last
(Wednesday) night comemenced with a “Paraphrase
aur Martha,” arranged by Kowalski, in which the quiet
but effective stvle of the artist was at once exhibited.
In the course of the piece the theme of “ The Last Rose
of Summer ” was introduced, with variations for the left
hand. The selection was received with great ap-
plause. The programme embodied a collection of musical
gems, of which, perhaps, the most acceptable were a
“Scherzo,” and a “Romance Sans Paroles,” by Men-
delssohn, Haydn’s beautiful Austrian hymn, and the
“ Marche Hongroise,” the fame of which has preceded
M. Kowalski, and the rendition of whieh alone would
suffice to assure his popularity. Between Kowalski
and Ketten as pianists there exists as distinct a line as
that which divides Dickens and Thackeray as writers.
And Kowalski is likely to become as much more popular
than Ketten as Dickens was more popular than
Thackeray.
LATE THEATRICAL.
A first-class Amateur Dramatic Club is being
formed in Sydney.
The Balmain Royal Amateur Minstrels laugh at
their own jokes when the audience don’t see them.
All the equestrians in Cole’s Circus ride bare-
backed horses. Cole says the “ pad” is a thing of the
past.
Signor Ortori, the well-known violinist, is back
in Sydney again. He is going to have one farewell
concert, on the 21st instant, prior to his departure for
America.
The ladies’ costumes for “ The Pirates of Pen-
zance,” which have been executed by the best houses
in London and Paris, are exact copies of the dresses
worn when the opera was produced in London at the
Comique.
The success of Miss Christian’s recent concerts
ih the Masonic Hall has induced other musical artistes
to look longingly towards Sydney. Mr. Charles Turner,
the tenor, arrived on Monday, and Signor De Vivo,
agent for the Boena combination, on Tuesday.
Mr. J. L. Hall writes us from Adelaide, under
date sth inst., stating that, owing to the very severe
illness of Mrs. Hall, he will not be able to appear in
Sydney in accordance with his engagement to Mr.
Bayless. He adds that it is the first time during his
twenty-seven years’ colonial experience that such a
thing occurred.
The Stewart family has dispersed. Richard
himself is going to Adelaide to join the Comedy
Company. Docy goes to the Melbourne Royal as
chambermaid. Nellie has attached herself to Mns-
grove’s Opera bouffe Troupe, and Maggie will shortly
attach herself, not to a troupe, but to a single in;
dividual. The troupe may come afterwards.
John D. Evans, the expert ticket-seller and
treasurer of Cole’s Circus, attracts unusual attention
by the lightning rapidity with which he exchanges
cards of admission to the great show for bank-notes and
specie. One individual who watched his dexteious
movements for half-an-hour, remarked, “That Yankee
beats ’em all —he will sell you a ticket and make change
before you can get your purse out—my word 1”
Mr. A. Siegrist, the talented tight-rope per-
former, formerly of Chiarini’s Circus, took a compli-
mentary benefit at Lee’s American Circus, on Friday
evening, and received the flattering tribute of a crowded
audience. Thebeneficiare was in great form, and pleased
his friends and admirers more than ever by his graceful
and daring feats. Mr. Siegrist is evidently the leading
attraction at the above circus, and it is thought that,
as an all-round performer, he has no equal in the
colonies.
W. W. Cole's United Monster shows, which are
announced to open in Sydney sth April, for a season of
twelve days, have the somewhat enviable reputation of
presenting every feature advertised. When one reads
the list of novelties published elsewhere in this issue,
it is no wonder that the success throughout the colo-
nies has been so emphatic. Over 92,000 people have
already attended the performances in Melbourne; and
though the spacious tent is capable of holding 6,000
people, it not unfrequently happens that thousands are
turned away—unable to gain admission.
LATE SPORTING.
“ Oar Boys ” play the Stanmore i Cricket Club
on Saturday next.
Michael Langan has challenged Andrew Dillon
for £lOO aside to play a rubber of three hand-ball games
out of flye.
Slow and steady work is being done at Rand-
wick on early mornings by the horses entered for
various forthcoming events.
When the catches were missed by a member of
the Australian Eleven Murdoch should have exclaimed
in the words of Brutus, “ Away, slight man.”
Mr. Emery, of Grilles Plains, a member of the
Adelaide Gun Club, killed 49 out of 50 birds, using only
one barrel, at 24 yards’ rise, on Saturday last, at Ade-
laide.
On Saturday evening, at Sofala, P. M'Dermott
accomplished the feat of walking 50 miles in 9 hours 15
minutes, in a place fitted up for the occasion at the rear
of Hyland’s Royal Hotel.
When a certain member of the Australian Team
got three of the Marylebone wickets in three consecu-
tive balls, it was considered a Boyle over. Though he
did not perform the same feat in the late match, a
similar conclusion has been arrived at.
The subscriptions are not flowing in very
rapidly for the expenses of the Intercolonial Eight-oar
Race. As the committee provide a launch for visitors
during the training, and two steamers to follow the
race, gratuitously, aquatic patrons ought to take a
hint.
A double-scull race in light skiffs, for i>s a-side,
came off on Saturday afternoon, between Messrs. J.
Eagan and W. Coburn against Messrs. T. Anderson and
J. Heaton, of the Permanent Way Department, Rail-
way Works. The course was from Woolloomooloo
Bay round Port Denison and back. After a good con-
test, Messrs. Fagan and Coburn won by five lengths, in
161 minutes.
Cricket excitement is now at its greatest height,
and muff matches are being arranged everywhere. At
Parramatta, a match of fourteen aside is coming off
shortly: one gentleman has had a bat made for the
occasion, eight inches wide; and another has offered to
take 10 to 1 that he will make 100 runs. As it is well
known that he has borrowed Alick Bannerman’s pads
and gloves and Charley’s cap for the event, the offer is
not likely to be accepted.
It must be confessed that the Combined Team
had all the luck in the late match. The Australian
Eleven had to commence both innings at the close of
the day and with a bad light. The rain interrupted the
play on Saturday, and the Combined Team had thereby
improved wickets on Monday. All chances of Austra-
lian Eleven obtaining the large number of runs required
in their second innings were destroyed by the heavy
showers that fell early on Tuesday and the bad light
that prevailed during the whole day.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ J.N.” (Gundagai): Altogether too long.
“ W.H.T.”: No, you don’t. Unmanly rather, wouldn’t
it be ? “ D.M.C." : Vague ; would gladly publish
definite information about the race. “E.R.”: Glad
to hear from you often. “ Cigarette” : Not one to be
got. “James”: Cannot think of doing it. “Eye
Witness”: You ought to be ashamed of yourself. A
howling, flaming, bubling, seething, hissing £20,000
libel. “J.E.S.”: Received. “Geo. G.”: We don’t
understand your allusion. “E.E.P.”: Verses might
suit album, but not newspaper. “Piano": Why
shouldn’t a man in this free country play the piano, or
if he likes, the big drum, on Sunday ? “8.H.8.”:
Your verses on The Bulletin were no doubt written
with the best intentions. Your modesty in only send-
ing your initials is, however, all that distinguishes
you from the bulk of Sydney poets. “Catch” ;
Thanks. Compositors aren’t very particular.
“A. West ”: Just now we’re painfully aware of the fact
that there’s a libel law. Write something which
wouldn’t cost more than £500,000 to insert, and we’ll
see about it. “H.S.G.”: We gladly avail ourselves
of your acceptable communication. “ S.F.J.” (Tum-
berumba): An “ old, old story.” The joke appeared in
the first patent medicine almanac, printed B.C. 2000.
“Souvenir”: We suppose you know something
about the writer’s identity. •* A.8.C.”: Very accept-
able communication. “ Anonymous ” (West Mait-
land) : We can’t print anonymous communications on
such subjects. “ G.H.H.” :We know nothing of the
case, on which your communication throws no light
so far as we are concerned. We cannot, publish your
ex-parte statement. “ J.P.” (Cannonbar): Much ob-
liged for your kindness, but it is not our intention to
take the course you refer to. “W.”; Can’t make it
out. “Ida”: Received. Next week. “1.0.TJ.,*
(West Maitland) ; You must send your name.—
“ Subscriber Received. “ H.8.H."; Too late.
Match reports must be in by Tuesday at mid-day.


BRIEF MENTION.
They declined the overture by 7 to 2.
Wagga has now lost all Hope (21 months).
Holy immigration—The stampede of theN.S.W.
clergy.
The “ Lor !” of libel—When the jury comes in
with the verdict.
The Redfern Times has got a “ detective.”
It will have a mule next.
The hat trick "When the Bannermans are
bowled alter a good innings.
The latest libel —An illustrated supplement of
the Royal family. Poor Wales!
It’s a curious fact in cricket that if a man only
makes a single he makes a score.
The Inve BEEii Times has an essay (original) on
pawnbrokers. That’s the ticket.
There’s a “ hang ” about the Distress daily.
Voynns, depechez-vous, Manseigneur!
Mr. G. R. Dibbs in the Telegraph gives
M’Slhone the lie. A seasonable present.
Mr. Melville, M.P., and the Colonial Treasurer
are fast friends. What great undertaking have they in
hand?
Peter Campbell has gone 700 miles on horseback
bush missionising. Peter is reported well. Nothing is
said about the horse.
The people who carry money out of the country
and bring none in, are circus-proprietors, Chinamen,
and clergymen — especially bishops.
At the Central Police Court recently, at the
trial of the man Borgenis, Mrs. B. said that, although
he axed her three times, she made no reply.
The gentleman who wrote the Morning Rem
leader of Friday morning has evidently had more ex-
perience in the inside of gaols than of schools.
“Is there any foundation to these rumours?”
asked a gentlemen who met Mr. Mcßeath the other
day. Mac. said he was in a hurry to collect his rents.
Grosvenor Bunster has given the Melbourne
Wholesale Clothing Company an advt. in his Peery-
bingle papers in the Weekly Times. This is ominous!
J. C. Williamson, who will play the Sergeant of
Police in “The Pirates of Penzance,” is closely ob-
serving the manners and customs of the members of
the force in Sydney.
Rapid rise in the Victorian Government Service
for the five men engaged in the torpedo exploit at
Queenscliif. No jealousy, strange to say, on the part of
other Civil Servants.
It is too much to expect that a magistrate
should mete out full justice to a relative in the dock,
even though that relative should be guilty of shame-
fully indecent conduct.
As the train left Junee, the other day, a large
piece of coal was thrown at the guard, and struck him
full on the skull. The coal was broken into several
pieces. The guard was uninjured HI
The following notification was, the other week,
to be seen on the window of an up-country post-office in
the Tumut district“ Fish will be taken in exchange
fer a eamp-oven.” Is this of-flshal ?
Milner S. can banish pains.
Blowing through red list;
Milner S. can banish pains.
Where they don’t exist.
Is it the correct thing for the mayor of a
(northern) town to preside over religious gatherings,
the only object of which apparently is to make people
“ hate one another for the love of God ?”
“Is man an improved ape ? Hear Professor
Gilbert’s free lecture. Temperance Hall, Tuesday
evening next.” Professor Gilbert asks, “Is man an
improved ape P” Not necessarily improved.
A man threw himself over a Pitt-street parapet
the other day. It came out in evidence that he had
been reading the Daily Telegraph a few moments
before his untimely death. That fatal paper!
The Wide Bat and Burnett News (Q.) pub-
lishes an issue dated February 61, 1881. There are
sugar plantations in Maryborough, and the spirit dis-
tilled from the sugar-cane is rum. Why say more P
The revolver mania, hitherto considered a
peculiarity of America (says a* exchange), is fast
spreading in Victoria. Well, so is the tijit mania here,
considering last week we had two burglaries in one
night.
Says the Evening Ghoul “ Time after time,
as the question was being put, Mr. Copeland slowly ad-
vanced to the table. There is something of the mastiff
in him." We suppose they mean he is of a dogged
disposition.
The Junee police are heroes. There are three
of them—and yet they insisted on handcuffing a boy
named Bridge, who was standing his trial for horse-
stealing. These three Bayards should be sent to hunt
bushrangers—or rabbits.
One copy of an American pirated edition of
Earl (Beaconsfield’s “ Endymion " has reached Sydney.
The;ipublished price is 25 cents, or about a shilling!
Here is an admirable illustration of the necessity for an
international copyright law.
Professor Gilbert lectured at the Temperance
Hall on Tuesday evening last, for the purpose of eluci-
dating his views on the question whether man is an
improved ape. Some distinguished M’s.L.A were
present, but not Mr. M'Elhone.
A couple of Australians who have just returned
from the “ grand tour,” say that “ all is vanity.” Even
the Bunker’s Hill memorial at Boston does not strike
one as elegant or original. It is constructed on the
model of the Bathurst-street column.
A Hebrew “ gentleman ” of Parramatta has
spent £4OO as Court costs in suits against a local enemy.
The man of the “ chosen tribes ” has lost his suit fifty
times (more or less), and is going in again. It is all
“ along of” a doorway and an old sore.
“The expenses for the production of Dr. Ter-
rance’s musical works, at the Melbourne Town Hall, on
Monday night, came to more than twice the receipts.”
There is a subscription now being made. So cheer up.
Doctor, for the coin’s coming in Torrance.
K a Parliamentary messenger wishes to be
brought before the ’ouse, let him hand a salver to the
senior member for the Upper Hunter, and say, “ Here’s
a letter for you. Breeze, sir.” Next day, he’ll find his
grandmother’s virtue questioned in full Parliament.
At Mudgee you can often see a “big man”
drive with indecent haste past a funeral cortege, while
working men stand with uncovered heads. Perhaps,
however, the big man merely wished to indicate what
amount of respect should be paid to his own funeral.
How those pianists love one another ! No
sooner had Kowalski, who plays on Herz’s pianos,
arranged to come to Sydney than Ketten, who only
plays on Pleyel’s, telegraphed to the Mayor that he
would give a charity concert before leaving for the
East.
It is believed that if the rain should be constant,
and if the reservoir wall be raised two feet, and if the
masonry at its base can resist the consequent increased
pressure, and if some minor reservoirs are constructed
as “ feeders,” the present source of water supply to
Parramatta, now rapidly approaching completion, may
be sufficient, except in times of severe drought.
The boss of an institution at Croajingalonga-
yaramatigong ventured on horseback the other day.
The effect was startling—a cross between Ketten, Don
Quixote (according to the legend), and Rosesy, M.P.,
as the Arab. Only three street accidents at the first
outing. The police are forbearing, as it is supposed
other horses may get accustomed to the opposition m
time.
“ The Rev. Mr. Dandie, of Carooar, has ac-
cepted a call from the Bathurst Presbyterians, and on
the 23rd instant will be inducted by the Revs. Dr.
GeeHe and W. Mackenzie.” Now, as we all know, it is
generally curates who are dandies, and behold Mr. D.
is an incumbent of grave demeanour. And yet, strange
to say, he will all his life find it incumbent upon him to
be a Dandie. Odd, isn’t it P
“ Down with the City Council,” cried a man at
a meeting the other day. “ What, all'em ? ” enquired
a man who stood near. “ Yes,” responded the wag,
“it must be all’em, or else they won’t dissolve.’’ And
the other man had got as near home as the Mort’s Dock
Perry before he saw it.
It is satisfactory to read in Dr. Steel’s organ
that —“The character of the Adelaide Young Men’s
Christian Association, will henceforth be pronouncedly
Christian.’’ If the rev. doctor don’t take care of it one
of the Adelaide boys will be coming over and putting a
brick through his sky-light.
From the current week’s Presbyterian we cull
the following:—“Our shareholders are reminded of the
notice that the balance of the unpaid shares is now due.
It is not pleasant to part with money when there is no
tangible return. We trust that those concerned will
see the matter in the light of a benefit to the Church
at large. We do not hesitate to ask that more of these
unproductive shares be taken up. After all, there are
worse investments.” Name ?
“ writing in the Penny Morning Bun-
gle in re the moonlight concert at the Garden Palace,
says—“On the evenings that the Austrian _ Band
performs, the admission being only one shilling, it
would be worth while going to hear the band and get a
bunch of flowers; and 1 am sure it will cost some
pounds to repair it.” If any robbery of Mr. Moore’s
lovely flowers does take place, “J. 8.” will be able to
lay the soft unction to his soul that he started the
idea.
Says the Queanbetan Gale “ The Quean-
boyan newspapers have decided to refrain from sending
reporters to the committee meetings of the Queanbeyan
Hospital during the present management, as they deem
it undesirable to give publicity to proceedings which
are neither complimentary to the intelligence of the Press
nor marked by the spirit of fair play towards others.”
What have the committee been doing to poor old
John, we wonder? Someone’s always that unfortunate
“ elder."
The Dunedin Weekly “gives” us this:—
“During the Duchess of Edinburgh’s recent visit to
Canterbury Cathedral, the afternoon service com-
menced, and she happened then to be in_ the north
aisle, from which visitors are excluded during service.
Being peremptorily told by the verger to go outside the
gate, the Duchess at once obeyed.” From what we
have read of the unbridled imperiousness of the J
Duchess, we should say that this par. was verging on a
“ whopper.”
Grainger, of the Star, says the Adelaide L. V.
Gazette, “has relinquished the pen, with a view of
going in for the Council. We hope he will not realise
the old proverb anent two stools.” Well, so far as we
are concerned, we don’t care what he does. Like a
giraffe, though tall, he is quite harmless. He used to
write a column called “ Both Sides of the Wall, by The
Man on the Top.” It was awfully funny—almost as
much so as a coal-pit explosion. Never mind, Aller-
dale —wade in !
The Holy Howl observes, in its last issue, as
the scalding tears trickle down the classic nose of the
“boss:” “The Bulletin demoralizes, but it makes
money.” Right you are, dear Jupas ; and it s just
here that the difference between The Bulletin and
your saveloy-wrapper becomes apparent. The Stan-
dard demoralizes, but it doesn’t make enough money
in six months to pay for your family washing—and
Heaven knows that’s small enough to suit a North
Queensland blackfellow.
A couple of subscribers have cried “Stop my
paper ” to the Walgett Mail, the editor whereof, in
his current issue publishes the following obituary
notice: —“Died. —Subscriptions.—On Slat December,
1880, the subscriptions to the Walgett Mail of Sub-
Inspector Walker and Constable Collier, both of Police
Force of New South Wales, deeply regretted. The
cause of their untimely loss was an over-dose of truth,
which proved too strong for their weak digestions.
“ Two down, who makes three ?”
We have received a pleasing epistle, of which
the following is an exact copy“ 153, Palmer-st.,
Sydney, Woolloom. —Gentlemen, —Allow me to con-
gratulate yow on your luck in the recent Trial against
Roberts and McCarthy and at the same time Advise
you not to interfear with the calm and learned Legal
profession again. Hoping now that I shall see you and
the Evening News sit down shake hands and keep
quiet,—l am Gent —the party whome you once dubbed
Demosthonese Vardy.—March 2nd 1881.”
According to the Holy Howl, Den’s Theology
is the lewdest and most vicious book ever written,
and yet every issue of this holy rag informs us “ choice
extracts from Mr. Den’s work may be had on enclos-
ing 12 penny stamps to * Vatican,’ 33, Hunter-street,
Sydney.” When we have done wondering what com-
mission the paper makes out of this exceedingly moral
business, we will introduce Sub-Inspector Anderson
and a copy of the Obscene Publications’ Act to the
notice of the saintly Mr. Vatican.
As a good many people are interested in the libel
question just now, we have much pleasure in reprinting
this news item from the Otago Witness. We prefer to
make, at present, no comment on it: —“A writ for
alleged slander was on the 10th inst. sued out against
Mr. Stewart, M.H.R., at the instance of Mr. Mac-
Dermott, barrister-at-law. The action is founded on
certain statements affecting Mr. MacDermott’s pro-
fessional conduct made by Mr. Stewart in the course
of the hearing of a case in the City Court on the Ist.
Damages are laid at £2000.”
Speaking of a popular landlady, Mrs. Angrove,
who is about to sell out and settle in Sydney (having
made her pile at Temora), W.H.L.B. of the Herald,
says:—“ We are sure that such a good and well-fitted
woman for the station of life in which it had pleased
God to place her, will be much missed from the dis-
trict ; and, in the name of the mining community, we
express to Mrs. Angrove our sincere regret at her early
departure from amongst us, and to both her and her
family we wish a happy and prosperous termination of
a useful life—well spent.” How nioe!
Scene : A Sixpenny Cafe in Blank-street. Over
fastidious customer to “ culled gen’leman waitah:”—
“ I say, waitah, this hash don’t seem as good as the one
I had here yesterday.” How d’ye account for it ? ”
Culled gen’leman Waitah, with the air of an injured
innocent:—“ ’Souse me, sah I It am presactly the same
identical ’ash. Yesserday, I clean up yuah plate myself
an’ to-day I refresh what left with a little cabbige-watah
and a piece ob lars week’s punkin.” Fastidious cus-
tomer becomes absorbed in religious meditation, and
then piously observes, “ Well, I be dam 1 ’’
If people won’t believe this, they won’t believe
anything. One of the “lions ”of Sydney at present is
a very large organ, drawn by a very small donkey, led
by a very black Italian, and on the summit of the
musical earthquake is perched a nice little monkey.
Well, the other day, the wife of a certain legislator took
her offspring out for a walk, and stopped to listen to
the organ. Immediately on catching sight of the
monkey, the child pulled his mother’s skirt, and,
pointing to the animal, cried—“Dere’s Dada! ” The
rack wouldn’t draw from us the name of that M.P.
The Canterbury Times says :—“ Moody and
Sankey are reported to have seriously shaken the
Salt Lake polygamists.” These are
evidently very violent people. They “ knocked ” the
Philadelphians; they had the Londoners “by the wool
they “wrestled” with the Californians; and now we
are told on the authority of an excellent newspaper that
they have seriously shaken the Salt Lake citizens.
When they come to Sydney we suppose they will “ bang
all creationthat is if they do not before their advent
get mulcted in heavy damages for libelling the Devil.
The halo-adorned ones of Tattersall s corner
did not hail with delight the “ young icebergs ” which
wrought so much damage in Sydney on Tuesday last.
Verily, ’81 had come—ah ! and there was such a person
as Mother Shipton, too. Finis mnndi, sure. A panic
ran down the lines, a prayer meeting was at once
summoned, and ere they had finished descanting on the
wickedness of others than those of the Lord’s people,
a sudden calm came over them. Then a plaom young
man arose, and said : “It’s all right. Ned; we re got
another chance. Let's ice the grog with the ha Istone;.
The scene is Gympie. Persons —Gympieite and
Stranger. Scene 1 (time, Monday).—Stranger: “ Wet
to-day, isn’t it?’’ Gympieite: “ Yes, we always have
wet weather this month.’’ Scene 2 (same place; time,
Tuesday).—2nd Stranger to Gympieite: “Very windy
to-day?" Gympieite: “Oh, yes, we always have the
westerly winds this month." Scene 3 (same place,
Wednesday).—3rd Stranger: “Very hot to-day?
Gympieite: “Yes, this is the hottest month »n the
year here." Scene 4 (Thursday).—4th Stranger :
“ Bather chilly to-day ?” Gympieite: “ Yes, the winter
season is just coming on.” Pact.
“ Mr. Dillon and ex-Judge Meymott met on the
floor of the Court at Tamworth Quarter Sessions. No
storm.”
They met —they had not met before:
They met —’twas near the Court-house door —
(This story is quite true,)
When both—what ?—at each other swore ?
Shed quarts of bright forensic gore ?
Why, no! The legal two
Cried with the very mildest roar,
“ Good gracious!—how-de-do!"
Episode—in two short acts —from Parramatta.
Dramatis personas: Churchman (of course); ewe lamb
of “flock" (as usual); wrathful parient; place, the
Park; time, the gloaming. Act 1.—Churchman is
impassioned and eloquent; implores her to_“ fly; ” as-
sures her of his undying affection; and is just obtain-
ing the wished-for consent when . . . . . Act 2.—
Churchman, hotly pressed, takes to the river, where,
neck high in water, with ardour cooled, he “nego-
tiates." Wrathful parient is willing to avoid scandal,
and so all ends happily. But there were two vacancies
in last Sunday’s congregation, and people will talk.
The Forbes Times (a smart little paper, by the
way) has not much respect, apparently, fonts member,
Mr. Henry Harry Cooke. It thus sings about him
« Says the young Henry Harry to the old Henry Harry,
•You’re a brick—a reg’lar stunner—I can see;
It’s really a prime joke to gull the simple folk,
Who made you such a glorious M.P.!
Oh, you’re on the winning track, and I am at your back,
And all the pay and plunder shall be ours;
So, old buffer, don’t you shrink, but we’ll toast it with
a drink—
To the devil with the working man’s eight hours!’ ’
Some time ago, a certain journal advertised for
a reporter. For a joke, some one forwarded, in answer
to the advertisement, a small white kitten in a basket.
When the managing proprietor undid the hamper, and
read the cat’s credentials, he called up his accountant,
and said: “ I have long had a mind to make you a little
present. Take, therefore, this beautiful little cat. It
is one of a very rare breed.” And when the accountant
(who knew better than to refuse) had staggered off
with the hamper, the managing proprietor sat down in
his chair, rubbed his hand, and gleefully remarked,
“ That’s a penny a day saved from my milk-bill, any-
how.” Then, with a sigh of relief, “ Thank heayen!”
When the railway authorities at Parramatta
have an especial “ down ” upon an employ*?, they put
him in a glass case, fill it with lightning conductors,
and hoist it forty feet high during a thunderstorm.
And they are further guilty of the fraud of calling this
case a pointsman’s box. This is what they did with a
pointsman named Fleming on Saturday last. The
natural result followed—he was struck by lightning,
and nearly killed. Now, if this box were fitted with
lightning rods outside instead of inside, and with sliding
shutters which could be closed over the glass when ex-
pedient, it is probable the murderous designs of the
authorities upon the inmate would be frustrated. Verb,
sap.
The Australian Eleven, when swelling about the
town, axe the envy of everybody. They have acquired
a “ chic ” and style that is in the Jleast degree Brnm-
melllan. The handsome Murdoch walks with the
“ Roman fall,” and holds the first finger of a straw-
coloured kid in his right hand and a silver-mounted
cane in his left. Bonnor goes in for a horse-shoe pin and
white vest, and has a pair of lavender 37’s stuffed into
the breast pocket of his Bond-street “banger.” In
Adelaide, Jarvis hardly knew his aunt; and Spofforth
has only an indistinct remembrance of where the Bank of
New South Wales is. And yet these are all very simple
boys in their natural state, and conscientious devourers
of steak and onions.
The Gympie Miner and the Gympie Times are
at loggerheads. Says the Miner: —“In the Gtmpib
Times we notice a column has been instituted under
the heading “ What People are saying.” As the Tikes
may sometimes inadvertently omit some of the ‘say-
ings ’ of the people, we intend in future to supply any
such omissions. For example, it must have been an
oversight on the part of that paper to have omitted to
mention that peonle are saying that the Times’ editor,
during the/rocos'in the Northumberland Hotel on the
election night, disappeared under the table, and had to
order a pair of pants from Kurts, on being dragged
from under, when the row was over.” Such are the
journalistic Kurtesies of the Far Nerth.
“ We have received a note,” says the Evening
Harp, “ from Dr. Kingsbury, in which that gentleman
says:—In a paragraph in your issue of the 24th Feb-
ruary, under the heading of ‘ A severe dog bite,’ you
say Dr. Kingsbury dressed the wounds with kerosene.
Please allow me to say that I used no kerosene in the
case, and I think such an application is inadmissable,
and never apply it to the human body. Your correction
of this mistake will remove the appearance of inconsis-
tency in my practice as a hygienic practitioner.” Now,
how could kerosene have got into the account of the
severe dog bite at all ? It must have got into the head
of the paper’s correspondent. After all, though, it
mightn't have been kerosene, but something else. Qui
sait T
This is the Herald’s notion of journalistic
fairness. A near connection of one of its staff is
mulcted in a sum of £3 10s., with an alternative of
“ fourteen days ” for unjustifiable conduct towards a
gentleman in a public place. The Herald is silent on
the matter, and suppresses the report. A successful
opponent gets into a libel difficulty. The Herald
reports seven columns, and publishes, on the very
morning of the trial, an article indirectly commenting
en the case, moralises, and goes to prayers. Then the
proprietors publish in the Mail a so-called “ report” of
the trial—containing merely Mr. Darley’s indictment
of The Bulletin and the evidence for the plaintiff,
but not a word of Mr. Pilcher’s reply, or of his Honor’s
summing up. We could say a great deal more about
kind telegrams of various descriptions, but we won’t
just now. However, le jour viendra, as the undertakers
say.
At a ball in Saxony, a young student, named
Heinrich Schongobler, had a difference with his
sweetheart, entered the room, having what appeared
to be a cigar in his mouth. He went to the
chandelier as if to light it, and a terrible explosion
ensued. The lights were extinguished, the walls
partly gave way, dancers of both sexes were covered
with blood, and the young man was blown to pieces.
He had resolved on committing suicide, and had
adopted a dynamite cartridge for that purpose.”
The Invebell Times editor is evidently a
radical. He writes under the heading of “ Cobb and
Co.”:—“ The little pill-box of a coach that the above
firm run between Bendemeer and Bundarra causes
much inconvenience to the public. The comfort of
plebian (sic) passengers is of no moment, but let one of
the ‘ upper crust ’ —the Duke of Manchester, for in-
stance —travel from Queensland to Tamworth, and not
only doos the firm obtain special vehicles, but the
traffic manager is sent up to drive his Grace gently over
the stones.” There is evidently cause for complaint
here, and we like to see the Inverell Times “an
assert himself. Still we cannot but think it would be
more satisfactory to all parties if, before airing a
grievance, he would just take a dip into his Webster s
unabridged, or flirt for a few moments with his Mavor.
There has been a great deal of talk about a
certain alleged spurious Count, who has been arrested
in Melbourne en a charge of swindling, and remanded.
We have had the curiosity to attentively read the evi-
dence in all the Melbourne papers, and we have no
hesitation in stating that had the venue been changed to
Sydney, the police would never have in
obtaining a remand at all. In one case 11 the Count is
given four watches “on the understanding that he re-
quired them for presentation to a friend, or would ob-
tain a sale for them ” —no evidence being adduced that
he sold them, although he was perfectly entitled to do so
by his arrangement with the jeweller. In the other case,
he obtained nothing, but merely ordered jewellery to the
amount of £3OO, which it is stated he is in a position to
pay for. Under these circumstances it seems obviously
unjust to commence “gruelling” the poor Count at
this stage of the proceedings, when we have no direct
proof that he has committed himself—or been com-
mitted.
Respecting Skuthorpe’a alleged find of Leich-
hardt’s relics, a clever writer in the Queenslander,
who signs “Endymion,” writes as follows Every
one has some theory about poor Leichhardt’s end, and
I have one of my own about these documents. The
Western blacks are far superior to those of the coast
districts, and it seems to me not improbable that they
may have had, before the intrusion of the white man,
some form of municipal government, the districts
being divided into country municipalities. When a
mayor died, some of the papers connected with, his
office would be buried with him. May it not then be
one of these mayor’s nests, or graves, that Mr. Sku-
thorpe has discovered.” This theory is undoubtedly
ingenious, and we should like to hear Mr. Skuthorpe’s
opinion of it. By the way—where is Sknthorpe—
Oh, where, oh where, is old Sknthorpe gone ?
Oh, where, oh where can he be ?
With his tale cut long and his relics cnt short.
Oh, where, oh, where is he ?
A Parramatta doctor bad a troublesome patient,
with whom there was nothing particular the matter.
Patient worries up doctor four times in one night, and
doctor is at length honest enough to say there is
nothing seriously wrong. Patient, disgusted, tries
another medical man, who, equally honest, won’t lend
himself to any humbug. Patient goes back to original
doctor, who this time says he’ll be d dif he lets his
conscience again interfere with his fees. Doctor is sent
for at 2 a.m. (as usual, without much occasion), and
determines to have r-r-r-r-revenge ! This was the pre-
scription (sans hieroglyphics) : —Jalap, 2 parts ; asa-
fcetida, 1 pt. ; cubebs, 12J per cent.; balance, pepper-
mint—to make it “ pleasant 1” Patient takes the dose,
and, after four hours’ excruciating torture, asserts that
he never felt better in his life. Doctor, calling in sub-
sequently, looks grave, and remarks that the case was
desperate; the remedy kill or cure. Patient, full of
gratitude, insists on doubling the fee. Doctor departs
moralising, and extremely doubtful whether, after all,
** honesty is the best policy.”
Here is a little contrast for you, dear readers.
Bandmann, on his benefit night at Dunedin, made a
speech, of which this is an extract“ You know very
well (this is no flattery) that your town is one of the
most beautiful in the world. In fact, I prophesy
that the time is not far distant when this will be the
resort of tourists from Australia and Europe, who will
travel to see the grandeur of the place. I have travelled
in Italy, Switzerland, and other countries, but I have
seen nowhere grandeur so beautiful as I have seen
around your enlightened, hearty, and full-souled town.”
In writing of the same city, in India, “ Arthur
Sketchley” says that the N.Z. towns (Dunedin in-
eluded) are “little better than brickfields," and the
hotels dens of infamy, with “ drunken wretches lying
in and about the doors like swine.” The merchants he
discovered to be for the most part fraudulent bank-
rupts, and the people went about with a “ de-
pressed air” which completely “mystified ” him until
it was explained by the fact that “the inhabitants of
New Zealand were in a state of chronic insolvency.”
We wonder what portly George will write about India!
Our lively friend, the Campbelltown Herald,
has a slashing paragraph anent our cause oeUhre. Here
it is:— “The Bulletin men are such splendid losers
that we almost regret they lost the case. Of one thing
we feel certain, the damages were excessive. Hundreds
of worse libels occur every week, and no notice is
taken of them. What would some of these people do
if they lived in Campbelltown ? Why, our paper is
reckoned as dull as ditch-water unless we have at least
twelve libels in each issue—in fact, people grumble if
we don’t have libels. Libels are bread and butter—and
as for our subscribers, they have laughed until the
doctors have not a single dyspepsy on hand. Although
we think The Bulletin occasionally goes a little too
far in its ‘ Society and Fashion,’ still it is certainly
the best paper in the colonies, and while they have got
a ‘ knock,’ they will eventually gain by the transaction.”
This is rather different to the jaundice of the
paper that always is wrong. However, the Campbell-
town Herald is a success, whereas the sale of the
Daily Lynch is chiefly confined to the particular friends
and to the Melbourne relations of the proprietors. It
is said, by the way, however, that the Barrack Street
Barrel Organ really does confer a benefit on one section
of the community—and a very small section, too. It
keeps the coffee stall going.
More poetry. In the Grafton Argus we find
the following, which is an extract from a poem (?) called
“ The Challenge
« As the promise of God cannot fall to the ground.
Where was this fulfilled ? Oh, pray look around!
And where is our folly, tho’ we should suppose
Britannia’s fair Isles as the “ place ’’ which God chose
His Israel to shelter from terrible foes ?—2 Sam. 7—lB.
And that this is the place Jehovah meant.
As “Israel” mount “High" and eminent? —Ez. 17—
22, 24
On which to plant the twig
Of Judah’s Eoyal cedar—(l hid.)
There evermore to flourish
Anil know no superseder—l Chro. 17—13.”
OMEGA,
This inclines us to quote the couplets from Byron’s
“ English Bards ”: —
Moravians rise! bestow some meet reward
On dull devotion, to the Sabbath bard.
Undeterred by conscientious qnalma.
Perverts the prophets and purloins the psalms.
We wonder who Omega is. Not the sexton surely.
Would seem so anyhow; for he writes verso by the
church-yard.
Mr. Conrad de Bello —“ Phoebus, what a
name!” —the bailiff at the Small Debts Court at
Murrumburrah has been had np for perjury in connec-
tion with an assault case in which the festive Conrad
was complainant. Says the Southern Argus : —“ On
that occasion it was stated on oath by Conrad that the
writ was tom up, and this being denied by Esther, who
said * Oh, I did not,’ the former replied by affirming,
‘Yes, you did.’ The document was subsequently found
at the police-office, and was sworn to by Mr. Charles
Cutlifle, who deposed to its being identical with the one
alluded to by De Bello in his evidence on the 18th
January. Mr, Healy, who appeared for the defence,
admitted that untruthful evidence had been given, but
contended that the case should be dismissed, as it was
not essential to the charge against Mrs. Seymour. The
Bench took a similar view, and discharged the ac-
cused.” Additional interest attaches itself to the
proceedings of Mr. Conrad de Bello from the fact that
he is (at least, so the Bubbangong Argus has it) the
Murrumburrah correspondent of the Town and
Country Journal. We consider Conrad quite a
throw in for Alfred, because tho gallant foreigner alleges
that he is a German Count, and was. for a short period.
Minister for War at Levuka. It isn't often the W eekly
Hash gets hold of such distinguished contributors;
and, as we know that both the resident mangling pro-
prietors (literary and machinery) adore a title, we shall
expect to see Mr. Conrad de Bello’s Murrumburrah
pastorals (fatal word!) adorn the columns of the T. and
C. for many a long day.
“WE WONDER.”
Cricket I boys, to say
Aught agin it,
"Would get a man this day
A curse a minute.
’Tis better than croquet.
And than frisquette;
But this we have to say
Of this very noble play.
And we’ll risk it :—
When a batsman makes p’raps awe
Than a forty.
When out why looks he —aw!—
Quite so haughty ?
And when with our hands we clap
This great hero of a chap.
Why, in thunder.
Is it ever ever that
Someone’s handing round the hat
We Wonder ?
The youth had drunk the bitter cup.
And eke the beer can, too.
And so his girl had blown Mm up
As girls know how to do.
Then to a dance she straightway hied
With a new cavalier;
Then Heinrich vowed, before next day.
In Heaven he would see her.
He made a “ weed ” —the silly wight—
And stuff'd it full of dynamite ;
He was a youth deluded.
Quoth he, with a Saxon hiccup,
“ I’ll have my turn, and blow her up—
The guests and him included.
* » * • *
It took at least a week or more
To gather up from that room floor
Enough of him to bury. _
Then all they found was his singed locks.
Which they interred in a snuff-box.
A harrowing story—very


I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed oi pure
uncolonred teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet —Karl Thsodobe Staioee, analytical
chemist.”—Advt.
The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Belle of the ball—Massie.
There is to be a day’s racing on the 17th at
Appin.
Progress can’t win even when Grand Flaneur is
•nt of it.
Grand Flaneur had a penalty of lOlbs. in the
Town Plate.
57 horses remain as accepted for the Hawkes-
bury Handicap.
There are 13 acceptances for the Hay Jockey
Club Handicap.
The Melbourne Cricket Club is forming a team
to visit England
Murdoch, Spofforth, and Boimor are going to
reside in Melbourne.
Grand Flaneur has been backed to win the
Sydney Cup at 100 to 12.
John Thompson and his brother Barney re-
turned by the Cotopaxi.
Ted thinks they ought to put him in the first
eleven since be made the 44.
The Intercolonial Eight will have four Corio
men in it. Upward is the stroke.
Grand Flaneur was scratched at 12 40 p.m. on
the day of the Australian Cnp race.
“ Miss Whiffler ” has been sold by Mr. Mark
Noonan to Mr. W. C. Herbert, of Bolairo.
Contrary to expectation the entries received at
the Bathurst coursing meeting are very small.
Massie made two duck-eggs in the late match,
bat he put the figures S.and 5 in front of them.
In the Australian Cup, won by First King,
Pardon carried 6st. 91bs, and Swiveller 6st. 61bs.
The Yass A. H. C. Guild has issued a creditable
programme of athletic sports for St. Patrick’s Day.
The race this year tor the Clarke Challenge Cap
was rowed some three minutes quicker than last year.
Nominations for the Warrnambool Steeplechase
meeting on 11th and 13th May close on Tuesday, 15th
March.
Spofforth says it was not cricket the way Massie
hit him about- it was presumption. Good for “ The
Demon.”
A grand swimming tournament takes place this
(Saturday) afternoon, at Professor Cavill’s baths.
Lavender Bay.
Sutton and A. Hicks are to run a 150 yards’ foot
race, for £l9 a-side, on the- Newcastle racecourse, on
Saturday, 19th March.
Eighteen horses have been nominated for the
Albury Racing Club Handicap, and nineteen for the
Grand Stand Handicap.
The Committee are highly gratified with the
entries for the various events in the forthcoming Wool-
loomooloo Bay Regatta.
The late scratching of Grand Flaneur for the
Australian Cap was viewed with disfavour by the
Victorian sporting public.
On the whole, the Australian Eleven had a much
stronger team in .the late match than in the great
match against All-England.
If our Intercolonial Eleven made some of the
mistakes that the Australian Eleven male in the field,
they would never be forgotten.
Allan played his last match in Sydney when he
tumbled onr men’s wickets down. He gives no reason
for not plaj ing again here.
In England the “ gentlemen ” professional
cricketers are mid unier the disguise of ‘‘expenses.’’
Could they do this in Melbourne ?
The Grand Prix de Paris, the richest’ stakes in
the world, or nearly so, is the only race for which
English horses can run in France.
Midwinter is always unsettled at the start of his
innings. It is not until he has had about half a dozen
•vers that he becomes a " stonewaller.”
Connor’s walking match with McCann, for .£25
and the Victorian championship belt, takes place on
the 19th. Both m. n are in hard training
The Leader Gup (Vic.) has been won right out
by the Hawthorne crew. This “pewter" has been
hanging about the river for the last ten years.
It is probable that a match will shortly be made
between the Janet the Victorian yacht, and the Magic,
for an ocean race from Sydney to Newcastle.
Which is the captain of the Australian team ?
Murdoch or Aiick Kanaerman ? Murdoch is, we know j
but that little whistle is always going in the field.
The Yarra Yarra Rowing Club' was the most
successful at the M T ourne regatta on Saturday week.
They scored thi ee wins, two seconds, and one third.
The colonial crew who won the Exhibition boat-
race have been challenged by another British or w. A
Sydney man—Vautin—was the stroke of the winners.
Murdoch is of opinion that Massie would be a
good bat if he had the polish on. Wh it a fortunate
thing for the Australian Eleven that he has no polish !
The Balmain Collingwood C.C. and Clifton C.C.
met at Balmain l ist Saturday afternoon. The former
won by 47 runs, the scares being 59 and 12 respectively.
Parramatta Jockey Club has arranged to hold
races on 24 r h and 25th May. Prizes exceeding £6OO
haye been offered. The Governor will be present at the
meeting.
Barnes won the six-days’ go-as-you-please at
Melbourne which was concluded on Satnniay week.
He covered 427 miles 9 laps. J. Clones second, 4j5
miles 1 lap.
G. Bannerman scored 65 and Massie 78 not out,
v. Lord Harris’s team. In the match with Murdoch’s
they scored 65 and 78. What nice boys to keep for
home work!
The Victorian crew for the intercolonial eight-
een racd will probably be the following :—Messrs.
Upward, Hopkins Brown, Tuokett, Irvine, Hodges,
and E. and J. Booth.
First Water, the winner of the Australian Cup,
is h 7 Fireworks, out of The Gem. The time was 4m.
la., with 7st. 6ibs. np, beating First King’s time, 4m.
%, with Bst. Mbs. up.
A toot raoe, for £5 a side, between T Allen and
S. Smith, di.-taace 100 yards, came off in the Domain
on Thursday last The result was an easy win for
Allen. Time not taken.
The six Victorians got 17 in the first innir gs of
the Combined learn. Tommy Horan got out very
unluckily, the hall just tipping the back of his glove
before Blackham put the lid on it.
A sculling mutch took place on the Thames en
the 2nd instant between A. Smith (who gave Triakett
so much trouble in the late Hop Bitters regatta) and a
sculler named Perkins. Smith won.
The Croydon C.C. defeated the Penrith Cumber-
land C.C , at Penrith on Saturday last, by 6 runs, after
an exciting game. The heavy rains and cloudy sky
made the scoring of both teams low.
Blackham bats in a peculiar but effective style ;
his forward plav stops a lot of dangerous balls. Jarvis
oats in such fine style tharto us it is a matter of snr-
prise he has not come off for the Eleven oftener.
The raoe-oourse at Mullyan, about three miles
freia Cowra, is perhaps the bes? natural race-course in
the colony, and was the convincing ground of the Cowra
races, which took place on the 9th and 10th inst.
A match was played last Saturday, at Moore
Park, between elevens of the Young Oxford and Vio-
wmC.C.’s. The result was another easy victory for
the i r oung Oxford, by eight wickets and four runs.
A match has boon arranged to come off in
Melbourne between the Australian Eleven and a picked
fifteen of Melbourne, East Melbourne, and South
Melbourne clubs, on the 18th, 19tb, and 21st March.
“ Massie hits well, but doesn’t play cricket,”
and “Evans is only a second-rate bowler,” were the
remarks mode by the Ans'ralian Eleven before the
match. They have seen fit to alter those opinions
since.
P Woods, stroke of the Pootsoray eight, who
won the Ularke Challenge Cup, rowed 52 strokes to the
minute for half a mile. It is said that the eight can
row 40 over the Saltwater Eiver, smoking their pipes
and cigars.
A double-scull race took place on Saturday
afternoon in Newcastle harbour between crews of the
clerical and locomotive departments of the Great Nor-
thern Line, and resulted in a victory for the locomo-
tive representatives.
Stuart, Wearne, and Geary gay they are not the
only bowlers who cannot come np to form in big
matches. While Massie was in. Palmer was very un-
comfortable, and Spofforth was keeping them very short
to save his reputation.
It is said that when young Edwards asked for
leave to play against the Australian Eleven, permission
was granted only on his promising his general manager
that ha would not appear on the stage to receive
trophies like Massie ! ! I
Minnie Warren and Tall Boy ran a dead heat
for first in the Forced Handicap, at the Barrangosg
paces. The dead heat when run oif, resulted in another
dead heat, which, when run oif again, left Minnie
Warren a winner by a neck.
Greenland, of Prince’s Bridge, Melbourne, was
the most successful boatbuilder represented at the
late regatta. His boatsljwou five races and got six
places. Among the wins were the junior four, senior
four, and Clarke Challenge Cup.
Mr, W. A. Long has not any intention of
sending Grand Flaneur to England, but he is quite
prepared to match the eolt to run Robert the D vil, if
the owner of the latter will consent to meet him half
way, and have it decided at Bombay.
St. Patrick’s Day is to be celebrated at Bathurst
by sports on the cricket, ground. The principal event
ought to attract Metropolitan peds., being a St.
Patrick’s Grand Handicap, to be run for in three events,
at JOO, 125, and 150 yards—prize £4O.
Mr. Aloock, the well-known proprietor of
Alcock’s Tannery, and a staunch patron of cricket,
succeeded in collecting in the pavilion nearly £lO for
Charley Bannerman for his display of batting in the
first innings of the Combined Team.
The Wallabadah cricketers were defeated by the
Quiriudi team. The Evening News’ correspondent
says that “ the Wallabadah men were Good Templars to
a man, and included in their ranks a local publican, who
’ was in a double sense a host in himself.”
Mr. E. E. Jones’ Consultation No. 1 has been
successfully negotiated, and a No. 2 is in the market.
There are six monster consultations on Eandwick and
Hawkesbury events advertised, and each is connected
with well-known and trustworthy names.
A match took place lately at River view between
the College eleven and the representative tekm of
St. Hilda House club. The result was in favour of the
College eleven by 33 runs on the two innings, the totals
being—Eiverview C.C., 82; St. Hilda C.C , 49.
A new paper, called the Sportsman, has made
its appearance in Melbourne. It is to some extent a
copy of this journal. The proprietors are understood
to be Messrs. Winter, of the Herald, and Bradshaw,
formerly of the Melbourne Daily Telegraph.
The Morning Post says that Mr. Spofforth
has created more havoc and consternation among bats-
men thin Geo Freeman in his palmy days. The best
Engli-h umpires declare, too, that he is “ the daddy of
them all,” and the father of a new era in cricket.
A. W. Fitts, the winner of the Junior Challenge
Sculls at last Melbourne regatta, is a gluemaker, and
the best amateur sender in Victoria. He is about 23
years of age, and is a perfect Hercules. Stratton, the
great wonder, couldn’t look at him in the regatta.
A second sparring match between Professor F.
L. West and young Dutchey, the pugilist, is arranged
to come off shortly at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle.
A good deal of interest is centred in the event, as the
pair are admittedly the two best boxers in the Northern
district.
The following team represents the northern
districts against the Australian Eleven: —Messrs. Big-
nell (2) (of Dungog), Langley and Tucker (Merriwa),
M'Alpin and Fawcett (Singleton), Bryant, Tracey,
Lawrence, senr. and junr., Webb, Elliott, and Freeman
(Newcastle).
The Intercolonial hand-ball matches have caused
considerable interest and excitement amongst the
patrons of the game Various private matches have
been already arranged, and it is quite probable that the
champions, Messrs. Dillon and Langa will be
matched shortly.
The Wanganui Twenty-two defeated the Aus-
tralian Eleven by 10 wickets. The fielding of the Ans-
tralians was not np to their usual standard, several easy
catches being missed; besides, they only played with
ten men—Blackham being unable to play, through
having a sore foot.
Ihe disputed wager between Drake, a book-
maker well xnown in M Ibourne, and Goodison, owner
of racehorses, arising over Mata winning the Dunedin
Cup, was decided by the Dunedin Tattersall’s Club
committee in favor of Goodison. This means that
Diake has to pay £l9OO.
Betting is now becoming brisk on Randwiok
and Hawkesbury events forthcoming. Doubles on the
Handicap and Cup at 1000 to 10 are taken, the following
being the .most in favour: —The two Burghleys, two
Strathearns, two Hespe ians, two Deans, two Canarys,
and Hesperian and Wellington.
The Woolloomooloo Bay Regatta Committee are
carrying out their arrangements in a very satisfactory
maimer, and the aquatic carnival on Saturday bids fair
to be as successful as in days of yore. The Emu is
secured as flagship, and the Lillie Denham as umpire’s,
launch to follow the rowing races.
A foot-race of 150 yards, for ,£2O a-side, took
place at East Maitland on Saturday afternoon, between
John Mayo and Thomas Agnew. About 200 persons
were present. Mayo started Che favourite, at 3to 2,
Agnew, however, went away from the start, and won
easily by four or five yards, in 17 seconds.
In the steeplechase at the Burrangong races,
Leonora, ridden by her owner, fell at the second fence,
and, after being remounted, fell again at the third
fence, rendering her rider senseless from concussion of
the brain. He was badly hurt by the first fall, and in
the second struck his head against a post.
The owner of the chestnut horse which recently
raced Mr Brown’s Monarque, for £lO a-side, at Wil-
c.mnia, has—at the instance of Monarque’s owner, who
charged him with having attempted to bribe a jockey—
been disqualified by the committee of the local race
club frmn competing at Wilcannia in future.
At the Coney Island (U.S.) meeting, a horse
mimed Boardman ran a mile in Im. 4045,, which,
according to the American papers, is the fastest
authentic time ever made in a race with horses, though
Ten Broeok, i« a match against time, ran a mile in In..
39|s ; but he had nothing to interfere with him.
Wo hope that the reception of Layoook, which
his friends ate organising, will be one that the great
sculler deserves. At present, he is the hero of the
aquatic world, and though he has suffered defeat at the
hands of the little wonder, he has splendidly main-
tained the reputation of Australian scullers in English
waters.
The crowd that thronged the Association Ground
on Saturday afternoon were enthusiastic in their
applause of Massie’s batting. Big hits suit ’casual
spectators, and Massie did not spare the Australian
bowlers. The rain stopped the play at 4'30, but the
spectators were satisfied with what they had already
seen.
A swimming club has been established at Pro-
fessor Cavill’s baths in Lavender Bay, North Shore.
Mr. Tnaks has been elected president, Mr. B. O. Hoi-
termann vice-president, and Mr. B. Welch hon. secretary.
It _is to be called the St. Leonards Club, and special
tuition will be provided by Mr. Cavill and his daughters
for both sexes.
The results of the second day’s racing at Went-
worth are as follow :—Maiden Flute, Lancaster 1, Sturt
2, Terminus 3 Wentworth Handicap, Dou Carlos 1,
Quadrille 2, Sarchedon 3. Novel Race, Cock-of the-
Walk 1. Marie 2, Sarchedon 3. Free Handicap, Lan-
caster i, E astio 2, Consolation 3. The time of the
Handicap was 3m. 48s.
A match for -610 a-side, distance half-a-mile,
came off on the West Maitland race course ou Saturday
afternoon, between Mr. Stanislaus’s American Girl and
Mr. O’Brien’s Bluecap, and resulted in an ea*y win for
Bluecap The mare was the favourite, at 3to 2, and
though she ran gamely, Bluecap went to the front from
the jump, and gradually increased his lead to the finish.
The following eleven could go through England
and never lose a match .-—Messrs. Allan, A. Bannerman,
C. Bannerman, Blackham, Evans, Horan, Massie,
Murdoch, M'Donnell, M’Shane, and Spofforth. On
their return, the following eleven would give them
some trouble: —Messrs. Boyle, Coates, Edwards, Elliott,
Garrett, Gregory, Jones, Kelly, Midwinter, Palmer
and Slight.
Hanlan met with a most enthusiastic reception
on his return to Toronto. In replying to an address of
welcome and congratulation, he spoke in high tones of
his late opponents, Trickett and Laycook. He has
announced his intention of retiring from aquatics—but
if he can get another Australian to challenge him for
£lOOO aside, it is not probable that he will refuse to
make a match.
The Sydney Amateur Sailing Club will bring
the racing season to a close during the latter part of
the month by races for 24 feet, 22 feet, and 16 feet
boats. A very pretty trophy, the gift of Messrs.
M'Lean, will be a prize for one of the events. The
• Guinevere has been awarded the prize in the recent
match for 20 feet and upwards, the protest against her
having been withdrawn.
The Australian Eleven nearly had a serious
smash on their way to Auckland. The coach was
going through a gorge, and the horses shied while
passing a cliff. Blackham and Boyle, who were on the
box-seat, instantly jumped and caught the leaders in
time to pull them round. The coach was just on the
edge of a precipice; three or four inches more and it
would have been sent down 150 or 180 feet.
The Newcastle Ironclads won the match against
Singleton for the “ Waddy Challenge Cup.” The score
now stands at seven each, and the deciding match will
be played in about a fortnight’s time. However, it is
now quite clear that the Northern cricketers shouldn’t
play for trophies. The dissatisfaction and petty
jealousy exhibited over the Waddy Cup suffice to prove
that a friendly game is for ever out of the question.
The results of the first day’s racing at Went-
worth are as follows: —Sires’ Produce Stakes, 6 furlongs,
Sturt 1, Mirage 2, Squire 3. Time, Im. 225. The
Derby, 14 mile. Terminus 1, Bracelet 2, Idalia 3. Time,
2m. 525. Flying Handicap, J mile, Lancaster 1, Crystal
2, Priest 3. Time, Im. 20s. Hurdles, 2 miles. Eclipse
1, Camel 2, Actress 3. Time, 4m. 9js. The Darling
Handicap, 14 mile, Don Carlos 1, Mariee 2, Greek 3.
Time, 2m. 475.
A trotting match for ,£2O aside came off on the
Eandwick racecourse on Saturday afternoon between
Mr. Also’s hay mare Nancy and Mr. Brown’s roan
horse Peter. After an excellent start, Peter took the
lead, but broke disastrously, when Nancy passed him.
The race was then all over, for Peter because erratic,
and made many attempts to gallop. Nancy won by
about 25 yards, The distance was four miles, and was
covered by the winner in 15 minutes.
Spofforth does not like Dave Gregory’s plan of
starting to run at the same time that he is delivering
the ball. A caucus was held at the Oxford Hotel ou
Friday evening to asoeitain whether there is anything
in the rales by which Dave could be given out by so
doing. As long as Dave states that he is merely getting
on the way so as to be able to steal a close run when
opportunity offers, Spoil, can do nothing. He could
whip his bail off only Dave stops on his crease.
The Australian Eleven were exceedingly irate at
Mr. Swift’s decision, which sent Allck Bannerman to
the pavilion for 0 in the second innings. Mr. Swift is
perfectly certain that the ball touched A lick’s bat,
which the latter denies; but while we add that the best
umpires (and Mr. Swift is of that class) may make
mistakes, we are surprised that a body of cricketers,
who have travelled the world, would raise such a howl
about a trifle. Murdoch was so annoyed that he was
all abroad in his batting at the start.
At the monthly meeting of the Prinoe Alfred
Yacht Club the prizes won in the races contested on the
26th February were awarded as follow Vice-Commo-
dore Newton’s trophy to Mr. J. H. Want’s Guinevere,
Dr. Mackellar’s trophy to*Mr. Milson’s lone, and the
Club prize to Mr. Hordern’s Bronxewing. The con-
sideration of replacing the Club buoy at Manly was
postponed, and a resolution was passed expressing
regret at the loss the yachting community had sus-
tained by the death of Mr. William Langford.
There is to be two days’ racing at Bathurst on
the 27th and 28th April. This will come a week after
Eandwick, and will suit the engagements of metro-
politan horses —the Dnbbo, Wellington, and Mudgee
meetings following soon afterwards. Subscriptions
have been already made to the extent of £250. A pro-
gramme has been drawn out with prizes in value to the
extent of £5OO, including a Maiden Plate of 50 sots., a
Bathurst Handicap of 150 sovs., a Squatters' Handicap
of 40 sovs., a Flying Handicap of 50 sovs., and an
Autumn Handicap of 100 sovs.
The senior single-scull race in connection with
the Mercantile Bowing Club for a prize presented by
Mr. H. Lockrey was rowed on Saturday afternoon, and
resulted in an easy win for Mr. W. G Brett. The
course was from the Club boat-house round Fort Deni-
son and back. Messrs. W G. Brett and G. Williams
were the only starters. They were started by Mr.
Benson. Mr. Williams showed in front and held a
lead of a length to Kirribilli Point, when Brett made a
vigorous spurt and went rapidly in front. Bounding
Port Denison he held by several lengths, and eventually
won the race by about ten lengths.
Ward, the jockey, who shot himself at Wil-
canuia the other day, seems to have been perfectly in
his right mind at the time. The cause of the rash act
was the marriage to another of a girl to whom he was
very much attached. He loaded a gun with swan shot,
put the muzzle to his face, and pulled the trigger with
his foot. Tne shot missed its aim, and the unfortunate
man reloaded and put the gun to his forehead. But
with the effort of discharging it. he seems to have
leaned backwards too much, for the shot did not enter
the brain. It tore off the flesh, however, and inflicted
a terrible, but still not fatal, wound.
The results of the Burrangong races at Young,
on Thursday and Friday, were as follow First day.—
Flying Handicap : Blackbird 1, Shamrock 2, Mariner 3.
Prince of Wales’ Stakes: Prince 1, Shamrock 2, Tall
Boy 3. Town Plate: Good News 1, Eainhow 2, Star of
the Hills 3. Hack Eace: Tarrawena 1, Witty 2,
Cnance 3 —Second day.—Kinndra Handicap : Robin 1,
Star ®f the Hills 2, Blackbird 3. Ladies’ Purse Prince
1, Bay Middleton 2, Tall Boy 3. Turf Club Handicap:
Good News 1, Minnie Warren 2, Rainbow and Muajid
(dead heat) 3. The Steeplechase: Juggler 1, Uncle
Ned 2. Forced Handicap: Minnie Warren 1, Tall Boy
2, Shamrock 3.
The results of the third day’s racing of the
Victorian Racing Club’s autumn meeting, at Fleming-
ton, are as follow : —Second Nursery Handicap, | mile :
Cooreena 1, Darebin 2, Tourmalin 3 ; time, 1 min 18J
sec. Newmarket Handicap, | miie: Aspen 1, Water-
ford 2, Terrific 3; time, 1 min. 16.) sec. Town Plate, 2
miles: Grand Flaneur 1, Sweetmeat 2, Progress 3;
time, 3 min. 45J sec. All Aged Stakes, 1 mile: Welling-
ton 1, Baltic 2, Greyhound 3; time, 1 min. 44 sec.
Steeplechase, about 3 miles : Twilight 1, Helmet 2,
Intrepid 3; time, 7 min. 19 sec. Handicap for three
and four-year-olds, Leger course .- Marchioness 1, Cynic
9, Western Princess 3; time, 3 min. 26 sec.
The Australians are displeased by the absence
of a public reception on their arrival in Sydney. They
should not be; we are a steady-going people, and we
made a lot of the first team on their return to Sydney,
because the excitement attaching to a first trip of Aus-
tralian cricketers to England was still at its height.
It is now settled down into an ordinary occurrence.
The second team have no more right to complain than
will have the succeeding teams, which, in course of
time, are certain to be formed. The last English Eleven
that visited us were accorded simply a private reception
from the Association and the cricketing body, whereas
the first English Eleven were fSted on all sides.
The late match, Australian Eleven v. Combined
Team, is the best that has ever been played in Australia.
The cricket all through was first-class, although the
fielding of the eleven was at times faulty. There was
not that marked difference in the fielding of the teams
which was noted in the English matches of the Aus-
tralian Eleven The fielding of the combined team was
certainly superior to that of the champions. Themisses
of Blight and Jarvis were unpardonable. Blaokhom
was faultless at the wickets, and so was Elliott. The
membirs of the Australian Eleven excel in returning
the hull; Bannerman, Murdoch, and Jarvis send the
bail in from an v part of the field to the bails, and Black-
ham is always there.
The second day’s racing of the Victorian Racing
Club’s autumn meeting resulted as follows :—Hurdle
Race—President 1, Monitor 2, Sir Peter 3; time, 3m.
44|s. Sues’ Produce States —Royal Maid 1, Baltic 2,
Rhea 3 ; time, lia. 2145. Corinthian Cup, 14 miles and
a distauce-jCynic 1, Earl of Mar 2, St ar 3 ; time, 3m. 4s.
Australian Onp, 2) miles —First Water 1, Sweetmeat 2,
Progress 3 —the other starters being Avernus, The
Dean, Western Princess, and Prattle. First Water
won easily by four lengths ; time, 4m. 145., the fastest
recorded for the distance. The Grand Stakes, once
round—Wellington 1, Mulatto 2, Savanaka 3; time, 2m.
3645. First Nursery Handicap, | mile—Result 1, Koh-
i-noor 2, Greyhound 3 ; time, Im. 1945.
At the annual races at a certain southern
country town, the “ big money ” is generally won in a
canter.- The handicnppers met lately in connection
with the coming event, and went to work. Ahorse was
to be weighted which was unknown to a certain loqua-
cious handicapper, whose knowledge of rac-'-horses over
£5 in value is very limited, and who wished to let a
horse in with a weight with which the said horse should
easily have distanced all the rest nominated. His bro-
ther officers suggested that he should refer to the
“ Racing Guide,” which was on the table ; but onr sage
friend replied that he " did not believe in Racing
Guides.” The owners of horses, and not the horses
themselves, are handicapped at that town.
At the finish of the Town Plate at Flemington,
on Saturday, which was won by Grand Flaneur, the
people hooted Mr. W. A. Long, but cheered the jockeys
who rode the horses of other owners. Mr, Long received
the ovation with smiles. The cause of this display of
popular ill-feeling was doubtless owing to Mr. Long’s
having scratched only at the last moment Grand Flan-
eur for the Australian Cup. Mr Long has a perfect
right to do as he pleases with his own horse, but the pub-
lic question the propriety of leaving him in the accept-
ances until the last moment, thereby misleading
backers and affording an undue chance to the “ books.”
We believe that had Sweetmeat been scratched.
Flaneur would have scratched ; apparently, Messrs.
Long and Ivory were waiting upon each other. Mr.
Long was similarly treated on the Australian Cup Day.
At the general meeting of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron, Mr. James E. Fairfax was unani-
mously elected Commodore in plaoe of Mr. W. O.
Gilchrist. It. was resolved that a letter be written to
Mr. Gilchrist, expre.-sing a hope that the club would
soon have him among them again. The Pleiades pro-
test against the Harpy for “ foul sailing,”in the match
for t-x-C.immodore Gilchrist’s trophy, on February 12,
was sustained, and the Harpy wan disqualified, and the
Pleiades awarded the second prize. A proposal of Dr.
Bedford, that daring next season certain Saturdays be
chosen for manoeuvres, was favourably received, and
Dr. Bedford’s offer of a prize therefor accepted. The
whole of the members present formed themselves into
a committee, with a view of rendering pecuniary hel?
to the widows and children of the late William and
Thomas Langford, Nearly £4O was subscribed in the
room and Commodore Fairfax and Vice-Commodore
Macke lar were nppoin'ed treasurers, and will receive
subfCriptious in aid of the fund.
As was anticipated, the New South Wales men
had it all their own way in the Intercolonial hand-ball
matches. The single-handed contest between M‘Namara
and Dillon resulted iu an easy win for the Sydney man.
The three-banded march, which took plaoe on Wed-
nesday was also a victory for New South Wales. The
players were: Victoria, Messrs. M'Namara, Hannon,
and Canterbury ; and New South Wales, Messrs. Dillou
(champion), Dwyer (Sydney), and Keenan (Orange).
Onr representatives won the first three games, and
then the Vicrorians won three games in succession.
New South Wales was credited with the two following
games, thus winning the match by five games to three.
The third event, wbh h came off on Thursday, was a
two-handed game between Messrs. Dillon and Keenan
and Messrs. M'Namara and Hannon, and again a win
was scored for New South Wales. The Victorians won
the first game, but the New South Wales men won the
following five. After the play, three cheers were given
for the visitors, and M'Namara acknowledging the
compli • ent, said that the match was fairly and ably
woo, aud he thought by the best men. The Victorians
were highly pleased at the treatment they had received.
The leature of the matches was Keenan’s magnificent
playing; he seldom failed to score. The Victorians
played with great pluck, but they were quite over-
matched.
A new book is entitled “ How to draw and How
to Paint.” Now there are some actresses that can
paint splendidly but can’t “draw” at all.
It would never do to elect women to all offices.
If a female sheriff should visit the residence of a hand-
some man, and explain to his jealous wife that she bad
an attachment for him, there would be a vacancy in
that office in about two minutes.
According to a local paper, several Morman
apostles are holding forth to the good-looking but
“big-footed maidens of Nelson, (“Sleepy Hollow”),
N Z As there are twenty-five sweet seventeens to one
Adonis, doubtless Mormonism will prevail on some of
these willing captives.
Says a writer in one of the fashion journals:
“ The other day a new corset attracted my attention at
the shop of a leading manufacturer. It was like the
ordinary article except in one important particular.
The breast was composed of a lattice-work, this part of
the structure covering two apertures in the otherwise
staunch corset, and forming a loose support for what
was to go within. This corset is in female slang called
the ‘ Trembler,’ and the name indicates its artful pur-
pose. Worn over a dress waist that does not fit too
tightly across the bust, it permits a little unrestraint
to the flesh inside, and the effect is understood to be
quite enchanting. This kind of corset has to he made
carefully to order in order to obtain all its advantages,
for it should be exactly adapted to the peculiarities of
the wearer.” How perfect is our civilization !
The other day at Enroka four young men were
charged with having tin-kettled a Primitive Methodist
Minister and his bride. For the defence it was alleged
that the tin-kettling was simply intended as an expres-
sion of welcome to the minister on his return home
after entering into the sacred bonds. No offence was
meant; on the contrary, a reverend gentleman who had
been officiating during the minister’s absence had ex-
horted the young men to accord him a fitting reception
on his return, aud it was actually stated in evidence
that kerosene tins had been mentioned by the minister
as neoessary adjuncts on the occasion. This exhorta-
tion coming from the lips of the spiritual adviser of the
congregation was acted upon with the result above
mentioned. Case dismissed.
To our Headers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially on matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Pact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.


Tailors, Drapers
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOUS
358, 360, 362, GEOEQE !
SEEING NOVE
In consequence of the great incr
their importations this season exce
FIFTY THOUSAND I
THEY are now making their first di
early shipments in all dep
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
MILLENEET.
THOMPSON
and
GILES*
MANTLE
AND
PICHU
DEPAETMENT.
THOMPSON AND G
haring purchased these goods in (
the world, are marking them at pvii
CHALLENGE COMPEL
The same quality of material cann
rates.
(THOMPSON 1
opened their c
of Millinery, v
exhibiting in t
all choice goo
snred that th(
with an inspec
gratified at the
now displaying
comprise an ei
of British and
made especial!
Giles by the
London and
trimmed Bom
18s 9d. Ladi
Leathers, H
. meats, &c
(THOMPSON t
TLES, FICHI
—We wish to
attention of (
Department, i
the finest lot
Capeletts, anc
ever been ex
Our Stock coi
designs in shaj
variety of Bra:
lid to 30s; M
trimmed, from
Cashmere Man
Large lot of P
chased very nr
prices; sonev:
at very low pri
Jerseys, to li
every colour i
dren’s Jerseys
every size.
(THOMPSON
TUME DEPA
first houses it
in every style,
can select in a
vidnal taste,
from 42s to 6 g
signs and trim;
variety of Wa
cambrics anc
printed satee
Galatea stripes
from 15s to 30f
well made,
tumes, in a va
I other fabrics,
(THOMPSON !
ING FABEI
. plain and prit
J Materials is r
| bracing all st
both French
and Linen Te:
and colouring
best efforts, s
affirm that a
meat of choici
has never bet
colonies. Bril
to B|d; Frenc
to 14d; Fren
to 18d; Plain
lOd to Is 6d;
Galatea Cloth
talea Cloth, in
to 14d; Frenc
and plain; Bri
("THOMPSON £
SOLS and 1
have received
designs in Fan
will find novc
description co
ness. Our p:
lid, 4s lid, 5s
20s. We have
of 5000 Parasc
New styles ar
Satin, Sateens
embroidered, s
handsome Bi
shapes at mod
Umbrella a- n
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
COSTUME
DEPAETM T.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
WASHING
FABEICS.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
PABASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
Business Announce
LLeoax.J
SHOETEE, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITORS
69 CASTLEREAGH STREE'
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary I
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. S
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at'
PITT-STEEET, opposite t
News Office.
MAC
POETEAIT PAIN
225 BOURKE STREET. WOO!
"yiCTOEIA VAENISi
w.
ALEX. BOETHW
OIL AND COLOR MER
Importer of Paperha
Oils, Colors, Tan
White Lead, Glass, B
Marble and Enamelled Slate
Fenders, Tiles, and G
Room and Picture-Frame
281 (Late 273), GEOBGE-STRI
r H A E
" * WHEELWRIGHT AND
BUILDER, Ac,
Hat and Engine St:
Established 1851
Builder of WAGGONS. DRAYS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LOI
Railway Contractors would find it t
inspect the large stock of seasoi
able for Dobbins and other I
J. HAR V E 1
Hay and Engine St
gANDEE LAZAEU
General Importeri
AMEEICAN HAED
CHINA, GLASS, EAETI
E. P. WARE, CUT!
STATIONEEY, CLOCKS,
BERLIN WOO!
AND FANCY G(
INDENTS EXECUTED LOI
A.
YORRSTREE
G. C H U E C
IMPORTER AND MANU:
OP
COFFEE, PEPPER, i
AND
Gr.
SAUSAGE SEE
147 YORK ST?
AND S. Pi
SAW MILLS AND TIM!
16 Eeskihk Stke
Every description of Foreign ai
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at
c
HEAPEST
1 - -r *
AND
V •
AT
BES’
MARK ISAACS' CORPORA']
Tailors, Draper
COUNTRY ORDERS promp
carefully executed. Send P.<
a choice selection of Fanov and Ge
the Departments—New Dress Me
laines, Serges, Cashmeres, Satin C
FIRST CLASS DEE3S
AUTUMN AND WINTER
Onr own Manufactured GIo
2 Buttons 4 Buttons
2a 9d 3s »d
Pasted 3s. 4s
Cut paper patterns, all garn
JOHN B. YOUD
656 GEORGE ST]
(Just helow Liverpc
T ADIES WILL BE MUG
_U WITH THE BARGAINS a
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDW
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LA
have ALL THE APPEARANCE .
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN
PAIR; np-town shops CANNOT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD Hi:
IHE BEST AND LA
of
wOO L L E
in the colony,
FASHIONABLE AND
GARMENTS TO C
at
J. TURNER ROBIN
MARKET CLOTH
482 (rate 484) geoE'
Opposite the Fruit h
Established 18
REDUCED P
TROUSERS TO ORDER
TROUSERS & VEI
SUITS TO MEASUR
All goods well made, wcl
perfect fit guaran
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
STRANGE BUI
HORDERf
Are Selling CARPETS
First-class good CARPETS
Made up and Sewn in G
At a trifling chai
CALL AND SEE 1
PITT-STREET, PITT.
All the Novelties of !
Sxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxi
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx:
N
OTICE TO TH
SUITS TO ORDE
R.C. HA(
FABHIONABI
TAILORING ESTAB
27 KING STRI
Where you can he fitted with the
cheapest Outfit in th<
Tailors, Drapers
D AVID .
JONES AND
ORIENT CLOTH!?
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summe
reliable fabrics, fashionably cu
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND
Direct special attention to their inc
made clothing for the Spring and
being unequalled in style, qual
whole of their stock having bee
pressly to meet the requiremen
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business su
Gentlemen’s Promenade
Gentlemen’s Travelling s'
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits
Comprising Coa
and Trousers, i
favourite colon
cut and finish*
best manner.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Bac Suits,
The latest shape
ful and dural
for business a
nary wear.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits,
In light Homesf
thin Cheviots a
nockburns. for
and Summer we
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits,
/In Choice
J Tweeds, excel
j general wear,
( checks and mi
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits
Ligl
I Durable, the n
-{ having been
I shrunk before
h made up.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Walking Suits,
fin Superior
| Tweeds, cut
■4 latest style,
| finished the s
V. oreUred cloth!
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Berg Suits,
(Beautifully lij
’ Texture permi
~) colour aaa v*
v. able In wear.
D
AVID JONES AND
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Bingle Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
fSpecial attentio
1 vilod to our
Clothing, as
the best va
most perfect
and finsh pr
in the colony.
'ln Superior T?
I Flannel, th
I shrunk.
1
f China Silk Coats
Military Duck C<
Pine black Alpa<
All Wool Merinc
Superior Serge C
Black and Blue!
In fine Black All
Super Black A
Blue Sergeret
Black Berger*
'ln fine Black All
In Black Merino
Super Serger*
Gentlemen’s ("Super White Dui


Hotels, See.
The compagnok
CAFE AND CATERING COJ
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTA
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the
Marriette, late oh6f de onisins o
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners
Three hours notice required for priv
The spacious rooms of Messrs,
been greatly enlarged, re-decorat
Every attention will be paid to
establishment.
SAMUEL P
June 30,1880.
COMPAGNONI PALACE C.
serve up in their best
OYSTER S'iEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLO:
OYSTERS FRIED
and
. OYSTERS NATUBA
Patrons of onr Theatres and Com
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite
WEHLOVV’S WOOLPA
PARRAMATTA.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the v
moderate charges. First-class Bow
use of those who are fond of recreat
rjlO ENGLISH
And Visitors from the neighbo
and the Public genei
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SC
THE IMPERIAL
MOUNT VICTOR]
la in the midst of all that is worth se
Mountains. First-class accomn
and gentlemen. Comfort, clear
combined with moderate charge
J. G. COUSIJ
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE F1U
78 & 80 CAST LEEEAG
Opposite Theatee R
m
HOTEL de.
M
n
SMWVp BAC
afafaAtl 'JjCrsi
U Br"■••awsfst*
si KraSKBES
,'Vi
m
Hi
IW
hwi
I'L'
BHiliEEMSi
BSHRi-S
Kr® —
5ggSs£E5 pSjjssgjj
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOM
Hotels, fto.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL.
WYNYAED SQUARE,
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALKS.
WM. TANNEE, Proprietor.
JLate Club House Hotel, Or asa b.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MAKKET STREET.
JSTRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
C. WALKER
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
SEATED WATERS, GCNGER BEER,
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
■138 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO,
J.
Hotels, &c.
J
O H N A. WI
WINE GROWER & ME]
OOLALTA WINE
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Cir
Sydney.
Vineyard ; Coolalta, Branrton, J
price list o:
COOLALTA V
Extra fine quality, 42s. p
RED WINES
Bunsundr
No. 1 Coolalta Red
No. 2
Via Ordinaire
WHITE WINES.
Muscat
No. 1 Coolalta
No. 2 „
Vin Ordinaire
Quarts
s. d.
....30 0
....21 0
....16 0
....12 0
.30 0
.21 0
,16 0
.12 0
I
ICE. ICE
E
FROM FILTERED
Supplied is xurr Qua
AND AT REDUCED
Direct from th<
CITY ICE COMPANY
WATERLOO
rjtH
Offick — 3 WYNTARD
E GENUINE EAU
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the
Manufactured b
JOHANN MARIA
JULICHS-PLATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (G<
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Roy;
By appointment to His Roya
Prince of Wales
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Ai
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili).
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (P
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice. —The Public are caution
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudule
Colognes; and notice is hereby gi
Mnrira being duly registered, all it
ceeded against to the full extent of
JOHANN MARI
Ji
WHOLESALE AGI
MESSRS. RABONE, FI
3 WYNTARD SQU
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAPPING Ml
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER.
The BEST ABE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIBGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
Shlfl
7 4^
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully Compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIBGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
E
ASTEEN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
P O W L E E’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
E
T> HELLYEE,
-*-*• ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
rticles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate,
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street),
B
OOTS! BOOTSJ! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
H. HILDER,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Ball.
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
TheFurestStimuiant
The Name of M. MOSS & CO.
every Genuine Bottle,
This celebrated Ihitch Gin may mow be oStaned of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeep -rs. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak nnma*
tared Gin now bo largely consumed.
&
cs
&
%
as
&
a
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent —C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Ball Do>
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine*
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charax •
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, J, R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents,
z
RAO£ MARi$,
'll
jgOAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
S T , O U T
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot he excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J R. CATTELL and CO.,
Solo Agents


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Empspna have had a successful season at
Cooma.
Ketten leaves Australia shortly for Java and
the East.
De Vivo, it is said, is about to send a concert
company te Adelaide.
Chang, the Chinese giant, is exhibiting at Bur-
nell’s Museum, New York.
English opera at the Gaiety Theatre, Sydney,
commencing Easter Saturday.
Dixon’s Australian Froliques are doing good
business in the southern district.
Mr. Melville and Miss Medway, late of the
Opera House, have left tor Ballarat.
Emilie Melville is playing Mabel in “ The
Pirates of Penzance ” in San Francisco.
Nellie Stewart joins Mnsgrove’s Opera Company,
aud will play the Drummer Boy, in Adelaide.
The Stewart Family go to Adelaide after their
Theatre .Royal engagement, to open in burlesque.
The son of a well-known Melbourne ex-manager
will shortly marry a young actress, a Sydney favorite.-
One of the Nantch dancing girls imported by
Manager Daly, of New York, is a mother. Her age is
13.
F. H. Pollock is advertising in Melbourne for a
variety company to tour throughout the colonies and
India.
That clever ventriloquist, “ Voltaire” (Mr.
Prank Lay), is, we are sorry to hear, very ill at Tam-
worth.
Onr old friend Dan Briggs, of Eockhampton,
has been very ill for some time past, bnt is now re-
covering.
Billy Emerson receives -£lOO per week during
his engagement with Haverly’s Mastodon Minstrels,
now in England.
Patterson and Lingard were to commence busi-
ness in Scotland, with their “ Zoalandia " show, in the
middle of January.
The Lynch Family of Bellringers left Melbourne
last week for a tour overland to Queensland—thence to
Java and the East.
At Madame Tnssand’s waxworks in London is
exhibited the gallows which was in use at Newgate for
a quarter of a century.
A few years ago, Clara Morris, the American
actress, had trouble in getting £5 per week, and now
he commands £4O per week.
Mr. Sims Beeves was offered .£30,000 for the
profits on his series of farewell concerts throughout
Great Britain, but declined it.
At the end of the present season, the Opera
House is to be closed for alterations and improvements.
Not before they were wanted.
At latest dates arrangements were in progress
for the re-appearance in London of Mrs. Scott-Siddons,
now in America doing good business.
The prettiest entertainment hall on the northern
line is to be seen in Singleton; empty benches are what
companies usually see there, though.
The Novelty Theatre, Melbourne, is still closed*
hut we hear that it will shortly be temporarily in the
hands of a high-class concert company.
W. J. Holloway, Herbert Fleming, J. P. Carey,
and Miss Alice Deorwvn opened at the Academy of
Music, Ballarat, ou the 7th in “ Ingomar.”.
That clever actor, W. H. Leake, was like our old
friend the late Charles Vincent, educated for the
church. His father was a Wesleyan minister.
Ella Carrington’s “ Stray Leaves ” company
opened at Portland (Vic.) on Feb. 22, to a large house.
They intend going through the western district.
We hear that Mr. Harry Towle, the favorite
tenor, may shortly be expected from New Zealand,
where he has been sojourning for the last four years.
Mr. George Coppin has resigned his position as
master and warden of the Australian Dramatic Musical
Association. He has been requested by the Council to
reconsider the matter.
Sir John Robertson witnessed the last amateur
performance in Singleton. He told the people he liked
it. He stopped about halfan-hour; and then went to
his lodgings and to bed.
Mr. and Mrs- J. L. Beyers, a correspondent
informs us, intend producing “Lost for Gold" (“Tender
Jim” Browne’s piece), in Rockhampton, and anticipate
doing good business with it.
The Kelly and Leon Opera Company are per-
forming with much success at Maryborough (Q.) among
the pieces produced were “ Les Cloches de Corneville,"
“ Trial by Jury,” and "Chilperic.”
The following advertisement appears in a recent
issue of the Aon :—“Theatrical. —Young man wishes
to place himself under competent stage-coach. Address,
stating particulars, Hamlet, Age office.”
The members of the Gaiety Company are in-
formed by notification that their services will not be
required during the present week, bnt that they will
receive their salaries at the end of the season.
At latest dates, Mr. D Orsay Ogden and Miss
Beatrice wore still at Gym pie, doing good business.
“ The Streets of New York ” was their last piece, and
Maryborough the i own they were to visit next.
Dr. Gordon Holmes advises singers to-use flan-
nels. We have heard singers who should wear flannel
a quarter of an inch thick—wear it over their mouths
—though a piece of gutta-percha would do just as
well.
Miss Jennie Desmond, who is playing small
parts at the Opera House, is, we hear, a new arrival
from New Zealand, and now makes her first appearance
upon the stage. If so, the young lady shows singular
promise.
Rose Isidor, one of theprima donnas, introduced
by Mr. Armit during his recent season at her Majesty’s,
is an English lady of Jewish extraction, who has been
educated at the expense of the Baroness Lionel de
Rothschild. ,
A nigger troupe in the States is playing a bur-
lesque called “ Sarah Burnheart.” The “ prima donna,”
who is known as "The Heartburn,” is a fellow with
understandings like those of a spider. The affair is a
great success.
A certain showman, now travelling in the North,
has, though doing good business, been extensively
“letting in "everybody on his line of march—hotel-
keepers, newspapers, billstickers, bellringers, and even
washerwomen, included.
After Ketten had been in Auckland a few days,
he met the leasee of the theatre. “ Ah," he said, “ I
wanted to see you, Mr. De Lias. Tell me, am I mad
for considering myself a fine pianiste, or are the Auck-
land people mad tor not coming to hear me ?"
Mr. S. B. Reilly and Mr. Charley Horton will
shortly appear in Sydney in an entirely new burlesque
act, entitled “ The Corsican Twins," with Reilly and
Horton’s Minstrels, of which,by the way, Mr. L.
Daniel, a very clever female impersonator, is a member.
W. C. Dillon is at the Princess's Theatre (late
People’s), Melbourne, in company with Miss Marion
Willis. They are playing “ The Striking Hour" to good
business. After closing in Melbourne, Miss Marion
Willis will probably play at the Opera House, Sydney.
Among the passengers by the Cotopaxi, which
arrived at Adelaide on Saturday, is Richmond
Thatcher. He is agent for James Carden and Miss
Marston Leigh, who sail from Sydneyin the Norfolk;
also the Rosa Towers troupe, who come on from the
Cape.
Singleton doesn’t know how to appreciate pro-
fessional talent; amateur is more to their taste. Kelly
and Leon went up there with “Pinafore," and were
greeted with a £6 house. Local amateurs played a
blood-and-thuuder composition about a fortnight after
and couldn’t fine st mding-room for the people.
Helen Mar White, a young lady whom the press
of America pronounce far ahead of Mrs. Scott-Siddons,
as a reader and elocutionist, will probably visit the
Australian colonies early next season. Louis E. Cooke,
Cole’s business agent, is her manager, and he has
already received many flattering offers from the local
managers for a number of readings.
The Queen’s company, whjch has had so success-
ful a season of late, is about to be disbanded. There is
also to he a chancre of lesseeahip. Mr. J. L. Keogh,
better known as “Cuff ” (who is at present running the
New Zealand Combination Combany at the Princess
Theatre, Melbourne, with Miss Marion Willie as “star")
having, it is said, secured the lease for a season.
Thompson, of Zulu fame, positively closes up
to-night (Saturday), and proceeds to New Zealand via
Hobart, opening first at Invercargill, and then working
his way northwards. Things are in a very bad state in
N Z. just now, but T.’s a great favourite there, and is
sure to do well. It is said he is already thinking about
a fresh diorama re the Basuto campaign and the Boer
rebellion.
A certain actress recently received the following
letter from an unknown admirer :—“ Dear Mias. I am
only a poor workman, but I love you like a millionaire.
While waiting to become one, I send you this bunch of
flowers If you wish to know me, and to reciprocate
my undring affection, when you are on the stage to-
night lift your beautiful eyes to the gallery; my legs
will hang over."
During the delivery of what was intended to be
a very pathetic passage by Miss Stephenson on Satur-
day night last in “ The Colliery Girl,” wherein she was
describing the death of “ Liz,” the comedy “ dawg ” of
the company walked on. and ran to aud fro, wagging his
tail, of course entirely “ killing ’’ the scene, and send-
ing the “pittites” into convulsions of laughter and
cries of “Brownie! Brownie!"
Dr. Lynn opened at the Theatre Royal, Rock-
hampton.' to a great crowd, who had been attracted by
the sensational advertisements of his decapitation
trick. This, however, he failed to perform, owing, he
said, to ill health, but he faithfully promised to take
the lady’s head off on the following eveniug. But,
next night he did not keep his promise. He made an
explanation and dropped the curtain amidst a hulla-
baloo.
Madame Modjeaka gets her marvellous con-
ception of dying wholly from her imagination. It is
said that she once made an engagement to go to an
hospital to see a person die, bnt when the time enme
she could not do it. She has, of course, read a great
many medical books on the subject, having studied
death by violence and disease only in that way—how
faithfully, none need be told who have seen her “ Con-
stance” and her “ Adrienne.”
It is broadly stated that George Eignold is
about to come out to Australia in order to produce a
“ new classical drama" by the poet Laureate. As the
drama, we understand, is based upon some phrase of
heathen idolatry, the hero being a priest in a long
gown aud a torn beard, we don’t think George will
shine. We shall always be glad to welcome Henry V.,
of course, but somehow we can’t fancy George without
his tin breast-plate and his charger.
At Adelaide Miss Pomeroy proved attractive in
“ East Lynne,” but so much may hardly be said of her
appearance in “Twelfth Night.” However, she pro-
duced a very sorry adaptation of “ Oliver Twist.” The
great novelist’s book (says the Australasian corres-
pondent) was simply an ex -use for the presentation.©!
a low, debasing, so-called drama—alike a slander on a
much-slandered art, a disgrace to those who put it on
the boards, and a deplorable exhibition of the actors
and actresses employed.
“The Pirates of Penzance” are progressing;
they are in active rehearsal. Everyone is perfect in
music and words, and the company is now hard at work
trying to act the piece. It is intensely funny, and
those who have seen Williamson as the First Lord of
the Admiralty and the Monarch of the Sea will scarcely
recognise him as the officious Sergeant of Police, ever
ready to “ go through ” a man or floor him with his
baton. Another week of “ Pinafore," and then for the
little “Pirates." There are only eight-and-twenty of
them!
The Auckland Observer is responsible for
the following“ Those who have still any doubts
about the character of the Lineard bankruptcy, may
be interested to hear that Horace’s share of the profits
on the New Zealand tour alone amounted to £lOOO.
When Mrs. Lingard came to pay Mr. Hesketh the £250,
she brought with her a nice little canvas bag of sove-
reigns, from which that sum was extracted. Those
b-hind the scenes reckon that the unfortunate (?) pair
took away with them at least three such bags, holding
perhaps £sf 0 apiece.”
A case of considerable stage interest has re
oently been tried at the Cape. It seems that on the
engagement of Miss Ada Ward, as “ star,” the leading
lady (specially engaged in London at a salary of £lO a
week) was cost in what she considered to be a subsi-
diary part in “ The Danicheffs.” She refused to play it,
and was at once dismissed. She brought an action
against Captain Disney Roebuck and recovered £lOO
damages The most interesting part of the case upon
which, of course, everything turned, was the right of
casting pieces and the question of lines of business.
About twenty witnesses were examined.
Just as the bookmakers, &0., were leaving Wel-
lington by steamer, after last race meeting, at which
they had been very unlucky, that eccentric comedian
Grattan Riggs hurried down to the wharf, laden with a
collection of bright new “ tinakans,” decorated with
ribbons, and each bearing the mystic initals, “ G. 8.”
Then the sun of Momus, mounting the ship’s side,
gravely presented each of the metallicians and sporting
m en—his hotel companions for several days—with one
of the decorated vessels, requesting acceptance of an
“ Wellington Cup," as a souvenir of their visit to the
Empire City and of the Summer Race Meeting. As
one horsey individual remarked, it was “touching ’em
on the raw, rather.” However, they all adjourned to
the saloon, where the “ Shin Fane" tinakans were
filled to the brim with “ fiz.” And as the vessel went
off the turfites appeared on deck, their bright tin cups
slung around their necks, waving adieux like happy
schoolboys bent on a picnic excursion.
There is extreme disagreement among the New
York reporters as to Sara Bernhardt’s personal ap-
pearance. She must be a perfect chameleon, or as
Scott puts it, “ variable as the shade by the light
quivering aspen made.” Take her. eyes, for example.
The Herald didn’t notice them ; the Sun says they are
“ blue” ; The Times says " black"; the Tribune,
« greyish blue” ; the Stab, “ trick eyes.” The Herald
says her nose is "straight and slender” ; the Sun, that
it is “aquiline and prominent” ; and the other papers
wobble between these extremes. Different journals
report that she is “ pretty," “ hard-looking,” “ fresh,”
“faded," “tall,” “short,” “not so thin,” “very
slight.” In the Herald her hair is “ a perfect shower
of golden curls"; in the Sun it is “ yellow and fluffy”;
another reporter makes it “ bright red and frizzled.”
Even the ornaments upon her bonnet are in dispute.
The Herald call* them “ wolves’ heads, opening their
jaws and ehowine their fangs in a threatening manner."
The Sun says there was only one head, and that it was
a fox’s; two heads, says the Times, and squirrels’.
When reporters differ, who shall decide F
A very large audience assembled on Saturday
night at the Theatre Royal when “ Pinafore," was pro-
duced with Miss Maggie Moore as Buttercup. It need
hardly be said that both in her acting and singing the
lady was highly successful, and her rendering of the
part was original and highly acceptable. The cockney
bumboat woman was here represented, the aspirated
I’s evoking much merriment from the audience. Her
by-play with the boatswain daring the choruses was
very amusing, and the music of Buttercup was certainly
more suitable to Miss Moore’s voice than that of
Josephine. Mr. Beaumont is perhaps the best Ralph
Eackstraw we have had in Sydney. He acts the part
well, though his singing is not always acceptable, his
voice in many instances being treacherous. Miss
Deakin sings well, and acts carefully the part of
Josephine; it is a very creditable performance for a de-
butante. As a songstress, she is successful in the ren-
dition of the music; as an actress she has undoubted
talent aud has already unburdened herself of much of
the inevitable stage awkwardness©! beginners. Miss
Deakin has everything in hi r favour for a successful
career in the profession she has adopted—a good voice,
with a sound musical edusation, charming presence,
a clear sweet speaking voice, with a knowledge how
to enunciate her lines clearly and with the best affect.
Josephine is no port for a debutante, and yet Miss
Deakin scored a success in it. Mr. Verdi sang on
Saturday night as he has never sung in Sydney before.
His voice was rich and powerful; his “ Fair Moon ”
brought the house down. His acting is rather pon-
derous ; he makes it as if it was the Count di Luna
transferred to the quarter-deck of the H M.S. Pinafore.
Buttercup made him bend slightly from his command-
ing dignity. Mr. South gives great prominence to the
Boatswain, and Mr. Rainford’s Deadeye is perhaps
more successful than on a former season. Mr. William-
son’s First Lord is as good as ever. Any shortcomings
iu his singing are amply compensated for by his splen
did acting. Miss Liddiard makes a charming Hebe.
The chorus and orchestra work splendidly together
under the able baton of Signor Giorza.
The Tamworth Amateur Dramatic Club is really
coming to the fore. They have amongst the members two
ladies—both amateurs, and each a Yenus. Well, before
these ladies joined, when the T.A.D.C. wanted to trot
out for a charity, they always found themselves in a
quandary over the female characters. Two out of the
three junior members of the company had joined the
Volunteers, and had commenced to cultivate mous-
taches ; and on being requested to shave off these
“ Nature’s toothbrushes,” in order to enact a blushing
maiden and a marrying mamma in a modem comedy,
expressed in so many words that they would see the
stage manager in—Singleton—first. The third female
impersonator was as willing as flesh could be; but as he
had never played anything but Mrs. Bouncer and Eccles,
and it was impossible to teach him any other “bu-iness”
than either getting drunk or making Cox’s bed, things
were really very awkward. At last, however, after
much persuasion, the two charming young ladies were
induced to join. Then all was joy in the camp. Pro-
fessional actresses they had often engaged, bnt these
ladies came expensive, and, besides this, they wanted
all the “fat,” and had an awkward way of pushing
the amateurs into corners, and contriving to make
all the gentlemen's best points themselves. And not
only this —if a fellah, you know, just stopped to recol-
lect his part, the paid actress by some by-pi ay unknown
to and unseen by their employers.endeavoured to extract
a mysterious roar from the audience. Well, wh-m the
lady amateurs joined,all was green leaves and snmhine.
Every one was jubilant; and it was resolved to give a
benefit to the Hospital and play—Othello. This simple
tragedy was chosen partly because the stage-manager
was well up in the text of the title role, and partly
because of there being only three female parts in it.
Well, the piece was cast, and a meeting of the company
called All excepting the ladies attended. The mana-
ger entered, when hardly had he gazed upon his
company than he was stricken with terror. The ex.
pressions on the faces of the male members (with two
exceptions) were fearful to contemplate. Those were
the gentlemen cast to represent Caesio and logo. There
was at onoe as uproar. The manager rose. “ What’s
the matter, gentlemen ?” he cried. “Is this your love
for the drama.” “ Fair play’s a jewel,” was the reply;
“ we want onr share of the mugging!” When order
was at length restored, it appeared that the fair mem-
bers had enslaved the whole troupe ; and aot one could
bear the sight of any one doing the hand-squeezing,
Ac., but himself. The idea of Othello has therefore
been given np; and the company is now actively
rehearsing “Box and Cox,” and “Number One Round
the Corner," in which ne ladies are required. This is
rather hard on the two fair members, who with tears
in their eyes state that for six weeks they have been
letter perfect, and that they have acquired premature
softening of the brain through practising the “ back
fall."
PEPPER AND SALT.
Lent ! Beautiful Lent has again “ arrove,” and
ihe angels now fold their wings and look down with
unspeakable joy on the god-like spectacle of the good
Catholic who sits at his Coffee Palace slab, wrestling
with one small sardine, whilst his Dissenting brother
opposite revels up to his ears in the gastronomical
luxury of “ steak and inyins.” Now is the season when
the fishmonger's better-half is enabled to oyster head
over the vnlgar mob, as she trips along breamfull of
pride in a 30s. bang with Pompadour skirt to match;
and now doth she turn in scorn to schnapper fingers at
the butcher’s wife, who sits, patiently endeavouring to
convert Pa's old shirts into a Sunday suit for baby,
whilst Pa, on his part, crawls slowly off to have his
boots half soled and ’eeled at the cheapest boot infirmary.
Some champion eatists now carry their miserable little
lunches in one hand ; and as they reach each cook-shop
window, they stand and sigh for the full and plenty
thereof, even as the Israelites of old yearned for the
stewed tnpe and wallaby coup of Egypt. The forty days
will, howevef, soon pass, and then —Heaven help the six-
penny “ grub” gymnasiums!
After a careful and disinterested surrey of the
case, Dr. Beg declares that if an ordinary healthy man
stood in any of our principal streets, and threw three
stones, two out of the three would belt a hole through
a J.P., whilst the third would unroof the skull of a
rising politician. And yet people will persist in saying
there’s a better land over there.
Pine old English gentleman enters train at Mait-
land, and after mopping down his head, turns to an
interesting well-fed widow, and observes: “Well, giveme
the good ole coachin’ days ; these yer trains are the cuss
of this country.” Interesting widow, slightly huffed:
“ Excuse me, sir; I beg to differ. I have lost three
husbands, and two sons, by these very trains; and the
Government have always allowed me £5OO for each,
without the slightest fuss or bother." Old gentleman
gapes, and wonders if Blue Beard ever had a female
sister.
Alfred Bennett’s now tale in the Noozs is none
of your wishy-washy, Bulwercum - Dickens- cum-
Thackeray slush, but a genuine up-and-down screamer
of “ thrilling interest,” and the Gladesville authorities
are now enlarging their accommodation, in order to be
in readiness for the increased supply of lunatics which
must inevitably follow the publication of the exciting
story. It is called “ The Abduckted,” and the first
chapter introduces us to the “ Lady Moon," Apollo, St.
Peter, and a few other outsiders, after which we
strike the real Ebenezar in the shape of a woman in
black, a newly-vaccinated child, an honest cabman, and
a something else, which appears to be a sort of cross
between Dick Deadeye and Quilp, with just enough of
the Pontius Pilate element thrown in to keep the affair
respectable. Whilst admitting Mr. Bennett’s undoubted
talent as a novelist we, howevc*r,feel bound to add that his
hero is about as mean a skunk as ever robbed a hen-
roost. A beautiful, graceful girl not only slips off
without her tea to meet this nameless vagabond in a
boneyard, but she actually pays the honest cabby double
fare to drive fast; she cools her dainty little heels
waiting for two hours until the said vagabond chooses
to saunter down; she kisses him with all the mad fervor
of her virgin love, she calls him her life—her soul—
encircles him once more with her exquisitely-
rounded, alabaster arms; her anxious ears hang upon,
his lips; her heart “ goes slow," so that not a silvery
sound shall escape; and what does he say to all this
joy ? Well, he simply gives her a hurried kiss, as if he
half suspected she had been eating onions, and then
coolly remarks, “ Ta, ta, Liz., I must ’ook it out, or I’ll
lose the tram; and if I lose the train. I’ll lose the 'bus,
and bang goes ‘one and thripens.’ ” The lady replies :
“ Go, dear, and Heaven’s blessing with you." If she
had told him to go and soak his head in a tan-pit she
would have treated him as he deserves; and it she had
rapped him over the nose with a brick also, there’s not
a jury in this world who would find her gnilty. We
will watch the farther development of Alfred’s thrilling
yarn with breathless suspense, and a gun that will kill
a mile off.
A few weeks ago a poor/ but highly respectable
tramp, neatly attired in a cabbage-tree hat and a pint
pot, called at a station near Colac, and in the sacred
name of Charity asked for a litte flour, a bundle of
Manilla cigars, a copy of the last Bulletin, and a few
other necessaries of life —and being accommodated, he
trudged off to Colac. Arrived at that thriving buriaf-
ground, he called at the Post Office, and was very much
disgusted tofind a letter there informing him that he had
been left an immense fortune by the death distant
butobliging relative Since then, 4,563tramps haveealled
at that station every morning, and asked for a little
flour, &c., and the Colac postmaster sits up daj and
night, incessantly saying, “ No, sir, nothing for yon at
present."
She was a female child of about seven summers,
and a like number of winters, and her face and clothes
bore a sample of every style of dirt from the carboni-
ferous period down to the present day. She carried a
small brown paper parcel about three inches square,
and, handing the same to the receiving clerk at the
Steam Laundry, timidly said, “ Mister Browntop, the
noosepaper man, senz his shirt for a wash, an’ will yon
pleeze hev it done by Chewsday ?’’ The clerk took it
up tenderly, carefully surveyed its contends, and then
neatly folding it np, handed it back, and replied, “ My
child, you have come to the wrong shop. This is
the Steam Laundry. The place you want is—the rag-
mill.” Mr. Browntop says he’ll put a head on that
clerk before the morrow’s dawn, and then he’ll go
where glory waits him.
’ “ There is at present in the Parramatta Benevo-
lent Asylum an old blind man who thirty years ago was
worth quite £50,000. Gambling and drink were the
factors of his present misery. He was an old associate
of the celebrated ‘ Bill Nash.’ "
The religious journals are at it again. Says the
Christian Weekly: —“It may interest our readers to
know that the Boer colony is situated in the sow-sow-
west of Africa ” (copyright reserved). “ A rasher nation
neverexisted ” (Words op Grace). “We believe it
ham an-neggsed to the Cape at present*’ (Protestant
Standard). "As our Teutonic friends would say,
there’ll be a pig row over there when G-neral Roberts
opens upon them ” (Church op England Record). Pork
creatures —they’ll hardly save their bacon" (Express).
And all this comes of colonial beer and a non-sectarian
education.
It is a somewhat remarkable fact that the
Herald never libels anyone, and it is equally remark-
able that Mr. M’Elhone seldom or never plays St.
Mary’s organ on Sundays. To do either of the above
requires a little talent, and it is painfully evident that
the persons referred to sufficiently appreciate the time-
honoured proverb of Mr. Apelles, “ Ne sutor ultra
crepidam" —let the shoemaker stick to his wax!
Tho following is a positive fact, and what makes
it all the more strange is, it is one of the few positive
facts which happen to be strictly true. A suburban
belle, daughter of one of our first families, attended a
little private “ shivoo ” at a friend’s, last Monday, and
in describing the evening’s delights next day, she ob-
served there was such an “awfully nice" young man
from the Lands Department present, and he recited
such an “awfully lovely” piece of poetry in such an
“ awfully splendid” manner, that she almost burst into
a flood of tears. “What was it all about, Clarissa
dear ?” I asked, as I carefully flopped down on her new
Sunday hat. and endeavoured to look as if I didn’t be-
lieve in a future world. “ Oh, it was all about a poor,
dear fellah, who was awfully in love with a girl called
Leonore, but her parents wouldn’t let her see him, and
there the poor fellah would sit, with his cheek on hi*
hand, making np poetry about her, and when he’d say,
“ Poor lost Leonore ! shall I ever see thee more ?’* an
abominable old magpie on top of the door would sqnork
out, •* No—not any more." Poor Edgar 1 Even to the
grave thy persecutors follow thee—but no matter: I sat
on her hat, so “ Rest, perturbed spirit, rest.”
In answer to Mr. Trickett, on Tuesday night,
the Premier said there was nothing whatever to prevent
the Woollahra tramway from being opened at once,
except that it wasn’t half finished, and the Government
further thought that it would be only meet and just
that the opening should be delayed until the arrival of
Messrs. Skuthorpe and Leichhardt, in order that the
latter gentleman might he duly honoured by having the
first ride, and that he might also have an opportunity
of observing the immense strides which the colony has
made during his rather protract ed absence. Mr. Melville
then proposed that in future all passengers per tram be
charged by weight, hut this was strongly opposed by
Mr. Lynch, who considered the motion was simply a
diabolical scheme to promote the interests of the anti-
fat manufacturers; and after a long discussion, during
which much light was thrown upon this weighty sub-
ject, Mr. Lynch threatened to sit upon Mr. Melville,
whereupon the hon. member for Northumberland with-
drew his motion, and asked if the Government intended
to introduce the Asiatic cholera or any other conta-
gious disease before they passed the Estimates. The
Government said they didn’t, upon which Mr. Melville
observed that the independent labour of this once free
and enlightened land was now being blasted by the
fetid breath of a 'ellish and unprincipled monopoly.
Mr. John Davies then rose and said, “ Ninny, come out
and —wet it.”
“ Enigma” asks “ what’s the difference between
a per—jury trial and a trial by jury ?" We don’t know,
and we don’t exactly want to. Seems at first sight to be
a distinction without a difference. Anyway, try again,
“Enigma;” only ask us something about the agnostic
theory, or the effects of long beers on the Sydney
dailies, and we’ll ready up a reply, or plant our head*
’neath the seething waves.
As a rule the Echo is good—if only to wrap
omdlesiu —but last Saturday’s issue contains at least two
gems which, for length, breadth, and thickness, cannot
be beaten this side of the equinoctial line. Sample the
first is from the pen of the brilliant genius whose mis-
sion it is to sit on servant girls, and the wit bumps
along as follows Mistress: ‘Well, Bridget, I sup-
pose yon’ll be simpleton enough to get married soon ?’
Bridget: ‘No, faix, ma’am, not I indade; it’s much
more airy, ma’m, to be single thin, and so it is.’ ” Now,
we have just another thousand pounds to spare, and we
will freely give it to anyone who will satisfactorily ex-
plain where the laugh comes in in the above par. Joke
the second is of a still more startling nature. Here it
is, in all its native freshness: —“ A young lady residing
in the Tarrabandra neighbourhood asks us (Gundagai
Times) : ‘ Do yon think it right for a girl to sit on a
young man’s lap, even if she is engaged to him ?" And
we say : “ If it was our girl on our lap, yes; if it was
another girl on onr lan, yes ; but if it was our girl on
another fellow’s lap, never 1’ ’’ This is exactly the kind
“THE BURDEN OF THE MYSTERY.”
“I have supp’d full of horrors.”
— Macbeth.
There’s something in the tropic air.
And horror floats upon the breeze;
There’s bloodshed in the sun’s red glare—
Ours is a land of mysteries!
Ours is a land of mysteries,
A spot enveloped with dark fear,
Where rumours daily our souls freeze.
And men, like phantoms, disappear.
*********
A gentle girl—poor Charlotte Bray—
A pretty maid with “ hazel eyes,”
Strolls from her home one summer’s day.
When Sol is flaming in the skies.
The long day wanes—the stars appear;
The crescent moon beams pale on high;
Yet on that night, so calm and clear.
That pretty maid is doomed to die!
To die! —but not the gentle death
Of those endeared to Heav’n above, —
To lightly draw the final breath
’Midst all those whom you know and love.
Unto her sire the news was sent—
“ The mangled corse of Charlotte Bray
Had been discovered, torn and rent.
Upon the line—four miles away.”
(These awful words we cannot gild
In lacquer’d garb of poesie;
We see before us the dead child —
And ponder o’er the “ mystery 1”)
* ********
What fiends are these who, in a band.
Stalk grimly over vale and plain ?
When will our erstwhile tranquil land
Be calm and tranquil once again ?
* Wordsworth —“ Tintern Abbey.”
Is there not one who’s clutch’d the gold
Of this poor pauper, blind and old,
Who now, that he’s near run his day.
Will on his life e’en cast one ray,
And have it said that someone gave
(Ere sought the poor blind man his grave)
Just hack one fifty-thousandth part
Of that great hoard to glad his heart ?—
Just one stamped piece of Sydney gold
Would now to him be wealth untold.
But, no! We’re “ game ” to wager that
He does not get a single ‘ sprat.”
In sooth, this is a painful page
In th’ history of a selfish age!


-of thing tbit fills our cup of heavenly joy to the brim,
and even causes a lot to slop over and flood the saucer.
Only two brief weeks ago we printed this yarn our-
selves, and yet, it has not only reached the sylvan re-
treat of the Tarrabandra maid, but it has been there
long enough for < ither herself or the Gundagai Times
to torget where they first heard it. Can it tie possible
the Echo does not read The Bulletin ? We trust not.
The Echo is bad enough, no doubt, but such a de-
gradation as that could only be reached by a long
career of crime, and an unbounded desire for “ long
sleevers."
We beg to acknowledge with thanks the hand-
somely hound copy of an old but carefully written work
entitled “ The Bible,” which has been kindly donated
by our esteemed friends, the members of the Young
Men’s Chri-tian Association. We have often longed
for a Bible, because we have ever found that so long as
a >nan holds a copy, and takes care to let the public
know it, he may lie, and cheat, and rob, and even
become an alderman, without ever being “stood on
his head,” or asked to give an explanation. We are
also pleased to find that the starving poor of Sydney
do not run short of religious chat, either. During the
past six months, 1116 visits have been paid to these
unfortunates, and whilst their famine-stricken forms
•trembled with hunger, and their parched tongues clung
to their mouths for moisture, our gallant band of
preachers waddled around, and told them all about hell
and the ingenious torments with which the damned are
shaken np, as it were, and what the odds were about
any one of them being saved wbo didn’t rent a pew and
go to Sunday-school excursions. If they had handed
over a long beer, a loaf of bread, and The Bulletin
but this looks like an advertisement.
Persons of limited intelligence have often won-
dered why Shakespeare never wrote the seven ages of
woman; but the simple reason 5 s that a woman has never
more than one age until she grows bald-headed, and
then the question of her age contains no more interest for
civilised man than the Basnto war does for a pademelon,
-or the welfare of this city for an average alderman. Last
Sunday night I met four different batches of ladies
#oming home from Church, and their conversation ran
«g follows: —
Young lady, in first squad : “Yes! he couldn’t take
his eyes off me the whole time, but I pretended
not to notice him."
Sad ditto : “ Sez he, ‘Maude, I have never had a
moment’s peace since we had that foolish little
tiff; ’ and says I, ‘ your troubles to me are not of
the slightest, interest.’ ”
3rd ditto: “ Yes, he’s a clerk in the bank with such
lovely eyes, and such beautiful hands, and he’s
always teasing me to meet him and go down to
Manly."
The speaker in the fourth batch, however, was of a
more practical turn of mind, and I heard her confi-
deatially remark that “give 'er a sheep’s 'ead or a
bullock’s ’art, stuffed with sage and onions, an’ she
wouldn’t ask for to dine at Windsor Carsil.” Solomon
was right; our girls go to church merely for the sake
of the “Sams and hymns."
Fathers, mothers, missionaries, pawnbrokers,
Coffee Palace directors, Chinamen, Corporation con-
tractors, and the charitable world in general,—The
average Sydney barmaid works from 6 a.m. till mid-
rfight, except on Sunday, and then she occasionally
strings it out until 2 or 3 a.m. on Monday. If a son of
toil were treated thus, we would have a second edition
of the Zulu war amongst us, and Angus Cameron would
deal out enough abuse on capital holders to sink an
Orient mail boat. Few, if any, of those girls receive
more than £500 a year; and yet they are expected to
look their best on all occasions, and to coax and entice
our butterfly youths even as the sweet-voiced Sirens
did in the palmy days of Ultyses. And yet these girls
are built exactly the same as my Lady Yere de Vefe is.
They have “ eyes, hands, senses, affections, passions,”
just the same as she has. But the laugh of a girl who
slaves 112 hours a week is about as pleasant as the sight
of the noondav sun as it shines on a newly-made grave.
Cannot something he done to make the barmaid’s life
at least as cheerful as that of a common 'bus horse ?
Country Post Office. —Arrival of the Sydney
mail. Belle of the Big Barcoo to obliging Postmaster:
“ Anything for us to-day, George ?’’ “ Nothing, dear,
whatever.” “ Oh, come, sling us a paper; must have
something to read next Suadav.” Obliging P.M. im-
mediately tears off an old subscriber’s wrapper; hands
out the latest Bulletin, and casually observes that
he’ll be at the lower sliprails athalLpast eight precisely.
And yet people say there’s no hell. If there isn't, let
us call for tenders at once, and employ contractor
Scampitt to build one.
V.
The Lover of Louise.
A rumour is at present flying through the city, to the
effect that Canon Duckworth has, within the last few
days, landed in Sydney. So far as we are concerned, we
give no credence to it, although a country contempo-
rary is positive as to the advent of Prince Leopold’s
late tutor amongst us. If this be really the case, there
will be some fluttering of little hearts at Darling Point,
and many will be the white fingers at Ashfleld busy
upon smoking caps and Berlin-wool slippers. In ap-
pearance, Canon Duckworth is a remarkable man. His
face is singularly handsome, his figure tall and athletic,
and his voice peeu’i irly clear and melodious. He
coached Prince Leopold up to the age of 16, when that
studious young gentleman was, to the astonishment of
the uninitiated, suddenly transferred to the tender
mercies of Mr. Said, a distinguished German scholar
and linguist. In his life in the Palace, in consequence
of the great affection existing between the young Prince
and his sister, the Princess Louise, Mr. Duckworth
was much thrown in the young Princess’s society, and
it is broadly stated she became violently enamoured of
him. Under these circumstances it was quite natural
that the young clergyman should lose his head —and
lose it he did with the utmost completeness. Before
long it came to the ears of Her Majesty, that in their
rides in Windsor Park, the Princess and her lady in-
waiting, Mdlle. Vande Weyer, used to tumble across
Prince Leopold and his tutor. Then they would tell
the servants to wait at Herne’s Oak, and pair off
for a quiet spoon. This embryo-Chastelard busi-
ness so alarmed the Queen, that she sent post
haste for the Duke of Argyle, and told him to
ready up young Archy, get him a new snuff-shop rig,
and hurry on the nuptials. Duckworth was given the
rich living of St. Mark’s in Hamilton Terrace, worth
nearly £3OOO a year, and told to pack his shoe-trunk
with all possible expedition. With a sad heart he set
to work, being assisted to stamp the lid down by John
Brown, who had been hanging about for the old shoes
and paper-collar boxes which are his lawful perquisites.
Before departing, he looked out of the window, and saw
her on the lawn, sadly playing double-ball with the
Princess Beatrice, who, availing herself of her sister’s
pre-occupation, was taking two turns to Louise’s one,
and ringing the bell with her mallet instead of her ball.
She looked up—their eyes met, —and then he tore fran-
tically down to the four-wheeler which was awaiting
him, and was jogged away from his heart’s dearest
aspirations. Well, the marriage took place, with the
results we all know. Outwardly, they are man and wife
—at home, they are ster-angers! Some yours after the
marriage, Duckworth, now a Canon, was once more
invited to the Castle, and, meeting his love, Again
slipped in. Three days afterwards, he was appointed
chaplain to the Prince of Wales on his Indian tour.
Since this we have lost sight of the young parson.
However, that is a small matter. We are quite willing,
should the yonng Canon be here, to extend the hand of
friendship to him. So, let him give us a call, and we
will see if we cannot look him up a few back numbers,
and get him an order or two for the waxworks.
MELBOURNE JINKS.
(BY SHANGHAI.)
Nothing special doing at the theatres, with the
exception of Leake, who made a good start at the Eoyal
on Saturday night, despite the attraction of advertising
Henri —I don’t mean “ onr Henri " —the Kowalski.
Poor Mr. Strong. He is being pumped upon
with a fearful vengeance —just because —what ? Why,
simply his all-round popularity as a preacher and
gentleman. Why should this world be tyrannised over
by a few self-conceited, narrow-minded men ? Please
send in an answer to this at an early date.
I told you in my last that the French were
opening out in these colonies, and now I hear the Ger-
mans are going to do ditto; and they have established
a direct line of steamers —the first one to start from
Hamburg on the 15th of this month.' Presently, we
shall have the Maoris coming down on us.
So yon have started a literary club. Take care
it is not too respectable—stupidly respectable I mean.
Without a spice of Bohemianism the world of letters
is a dull one. At least, that has been our experience
here, and it hag ever been so in London from the days
of Grub-street to the present time of “ The Savage.”
How is it that none of your critics those
sharp-eyed, fine-eared creatures —have taken any notice
of Trevanion, late an officer at the Opera House here,
and now of Williamson’s Pinafore company P There is
more in her than is generally known. She warbles well,
and knows her stage business, which is more than some
who strut and fret on the hoards do.
There has been a slight family disturbance at
the Exhibition. Of course the papers are in it. The
Argus ferrets out information tending to “ show up ”
the Commissioners and their Secretary, George Collins
Levey, because, you must remember, G.C.L. is the ad-
vertising oracle of the Age. How it is all going to end is
not known just at present, but one thing is certain:
that exhibitors, especially foreigners, have paid more
duty than they ought to have done. Not nice, this—
“ getting at,” even inadvertently, the strangers at onr
gates! But then Commissioners have to be pardoned,
I suppose. They are not all independent, aid the
temptation is great. One of them, I hear, offered to
arrange Custom duties, &c., for an exhibitor, and did
arrange, but when he handed in his account for work
and labour not done, the exhibitor pocketed it, saying
mildly that he thought it was “ rayther ” high. A good
way of avoiding settlement, hut it served the Commis-
sioner right. When a man plays “cat-throat ” euchre,
he must be prepared to die—gently !
Your citizen —William Long, Esq.—has not
been pleasing the public of Melbourne—or, rather that
portion of it which affects racing. The reason is the
scratching of Grand Flaneur for the Australian Cup at
the last moment. Now, of coarse, it is very hard upon
those who have lost their money banking Long’s horse;
but, again, doesn’t it serve them right for betting ? I
speak now from a high, moral platform—the one to
which I am most accustomed. It is said that William
justifies his act on the ground that the swells at ’otne
do so. A question of two blacks making a white.
Anyhow, poor—or, rather, rich—Billy got hooted by
the oi polloi assembled on the course, while he got
vociferously clapped by the habitues of the Melbourne
Club. A fallow feeling does make us wondrous kind.
And no one can deny that the fast young set
who honour the Melbourne Club by membership are
“fellows.” Just turn to the slang dictionary to learn
the intrinsic value of the word “fellow ” from a purely
classical point of view—a term of endearment between
“ Dear ! dear! !! this is a dreadful world ” —as
poor Mrs. Jinks—no relation to the party above—use!
to say when she was my mother—that is, when she was
living. And it is positively dreadful, Sir, particularly
where are concerned those who wield the pen of
the “ready writer.” T%ese ready bodies are
specially dreadful in this wretched town of ours—so
much so, indeed, that unless they are throwing mud
at one another they wouldn’t be happy. But the thing
gets tiresome after a time. It is all very well for a
Marcus Clarke to tell David Blair that he is a “ Grub-
street scribbler and an abortion; and for David Blair, in
“ Martial ’’ lines, to say that Marcus Clarke as regards
librarianiam and morality is a fraud; for Dr. Neiid to
write your Herald that M. C. is not a genios; for
James Smith to say ditto; and for M. C. to write of
J. S. that he is an apostate from Spiritualism to Con-
servatism —through the force of gold-dust. These axe
very pretty compliments, aren’t they ? Does it not
show how difficult a trade is journalism out in these
parts ? I think so, and grieve at it.
On they come—these Bags. We are being
deluged with newspaper sheets —ephemeral in character
and densely ignorant in texture. Only within the last
few days we have been bored with a Sportsman and —
what do you think ? — Our Idea and Intercolonial
Trade Bulletin. They must drag in that unfortunate
word Bulletin—spelt “ tin," but very generally pro-
nounced “ teen ’’ —the force of habit and ignorance
only. But to Our Idea. It is full of the absence of any
original member of the family. But it is different to
have original ideas now. Tet Mortimer Pranklyn
doesn’t think so apparently, as he is bringing out the
Federal Standard —a mixture, it is said, of society
and sport. It is to be hoped they Will mix satisfactorily,
and they ought to. for there is no small amount of
sport in one’s social doings—the result of more money
than brains. lam told that MP. has secured Marcus
as his delineator of social ethics. He himself will, it is
presumed, be the collector at dinners of the choice
little tattle which is to be heard among the Melbourne
Upper Crust. But more of this venture anon I I have
got something to tell you about it that will be very
refreshing, and it can keep too —the longer the better
for—a great many people.
SENSE AND SENTIMENT.
Doctor Deems : Nothing more qnickly destroys
an error than to attempt to establish it scientifically.
O. S. Fowler : A glass of strong drink will
counteract a good sermon as effectually as an alkali
will an acid.
Bulwer : The heart is the most credulous of all
fanatics, and its ruling passion the most enduring of
all superstitions.
Emerson : It is a rule in games of chance that
“ the cards beat all the players,” and revolutions dis-
concert and outwit all insurgents.
Seneca: There is nothing more disgraceful than
that an old man should have nothing to produce as a
proof that he has lived long except his age.
Addison: An ostentatious man will rather relate
a blnnper or an absurdity he has committed than he
debarred from talking of his own dear person.
Charlotte Bronte: There is no folly so besotted
that the idiotic rivalries of society, the prurience, the
rashness, the blindness of youth will not hurry a man
to its commission.
Johnson: If a man does not make new acquain-
tances as he advances through life, he will soon find
himself left alone. A man should keep his friendships
in constant repair.
Hawthorne : No man for any considerable
period can wear one face to himself, and another to the
multitude, without finally getting bewildered as to
which may be the true.
O. W. Holmes : Our brains are seventy-year
clocks. The Angel of Life winds them up once for all,
then closes the case, and gives the key into the hands
of the Angel of Resurrection.
Hall: I have seldom seen much ostentation and
much learning met together. The sun, rising and
and declining, makes long shadows; and at mid-day,
when he is highest, none at all.
Joubert: Politeness is to goodness what words
are to thought. It tells not only on the manners, but
on the mind and heart; it renders the feelings, the
opinions, the words moderate and gentle.
William Wirt: It would seem as if the heart of
man stamps a secret mark on all its effusions, which
alone can give them currency, and which no ingenuity,
however adroit, can successfully counterfeit.
Froude : Men of genius who accomplish great
things in this world do not trouble themselves with
remote or visionary aims. They encounter emergencies
as they arise, and leave the future to shape itself as it
may.
Madame de Rdmusat : A man, to be really
great, no matter in what order of greatness, must have
actually improvised a portion of his own glory—mast
have shown himself superior to the event which he has
brought about.
John Neal: A certain amount of opposition is a
great help to a man. Kites rise against and not with
the wind. Even a head-wind is better than none. No
man ever worked his passage anywhere in a dead calm.
Let no man wax pale, therefore, because of opposition.
Mrs. Alexander : “ Circumstances over which
we have no control ” is a polite phrase, cut and ready
for many occasions, yet containing the epitome of life’s
most tragic aspect. Circumstance, inanimate, yet iron
despot, before which the living spirit must bend and
break!
Bolingbroke : There is scarce any folly or vice
more epidemical among the sons of men than that
ridiculous and hateful vanity by which the people of
each country are apt to prefer themselves to those of
every other, and to make their own customs, and
manners, and opinions the standards of right and
wrong, of true and false.
Ouida: There are women who abhor genius;
women to whom it is horrible that a man should live
who can be sufficient for himself; women who set
themselves to tempt, and corrupt and destroy it, as the
devils of the legends set themselves to kill innocence.
There are women whose whole life is a war against all
that lifts men out of hell; they are scorpions who spit
death upon every holy thing.
A yourg- man with an umbrella overtook an un-
protected lady acquaintance in a rain-storm recently,
and, extending his umbrella over her, requested the
pleasure of acting as her rain-bean. “ Oh,” exclaimed
the young lady, taking his arm, • * you wish, me to be
your rain-dear. Two souls with but a single umbrella
—two forms that stepped as one.
You’ve but to don a wig and gown.
Then slander yon need never mind;
Just ape a dark and heavy frown.
And yon can libel all mankind.
Dress’d in the trappings of the law.
You can stand up and “ have your say;”
In virtue find a fancy flaw.
And take a good man’s name away.
Protected from the critic’s lash.
Dull counsel who themselves are sore, .
Can, with their vapid balderdash,
Damn honest folk for evermore.
They clink the gold within their ponch.
And with a preconcerted plan,
Behind the judge’s shadow crouch.
Lie only as a lawyer can.
The vilest, cowards those, who, when
They’re shielded, venomed lies allege;
And those still more degraded men
Who lie by rote—and privilege.
A Coppertown Castigator.
A JOURNALISTIC PASTORAL.—IN PROSE.
One hot afternoon last week a young man walked into
oui - office and requested to see the editor. He was
Iressed in a suit of bush slops, and wore an enornlous
broad-leaved felt hat, arid puffed vigorously and con-
tinually at an execrable cigar. Carelessly opening his
table drawer to see if the life-preserver, navy revolver,
and stiletto were close to the touch, the editor in-
quired his business. “ Well, I want some work to do,”
said the stranger, thoughtfully, spitting upon a copy
of the Mudgee Independent. The editor explained
that the office-sweeping staff was filled up. “ Not
that,” went on the stranger, “ writing’s my line. I
read The Bulletin up in Queensland, and the moment
I got through it I chucked op my billet and made
tracks for here. That kind of writiu’s just my style.
Will yon take me on ? ” “ What billet did you leave
in Queensland ? ” inquired the editor. He wa« silent a
moment, and scratched his head in a semi-perplexed
manner. “When I say I left," —he began—“but I’d
better tell yon all about it.” The editor settled him-
self resignedly. “You see,” said the stranger, “a
few months ago, I was coming down from the Aramac
“stone broke,” tramping it with an 801 b. swag, and
living on ‘ Johnny cakes’ and watej;. At last I got to
a township called Coppertown, and camping outside,
put on a thread-bare old black suit that I had bought
at Aramac for a bottle of rum off a conjuror, who had
taken to shearing ; and leaving my swag at a small pub.
at the lower end of the township, made straight for the
squatter’s house, the Royal Hotel. It was then just
seven o’clock at night, and the whole place was in a
bnstle, as there was going to be a public meeting in a
big room, with the Mayor, the largest (in every sense)
butcher, in the chair. I asked for a room, and could
see that my sable rig went down with the landlady. I
S*Ye my name—wrote it down on a piece of paper —
‘ Professor Cyclops, journalist and expert.” I stopped
there for caution’s sake, though I might conscien-
tiously have added * at making Johnny cakes,’ for long
metice at that primitive dish had made me perfect.
Well, I attended the meeting, which, as luck would
have it, was to decide on starting a local paper, the
plant having arrived some few weeks back, and being
then stored in an out-house. The point f t issue was
who should edit ,it. Well, everybody wanted that
billet, from the postmaster down to the Chinese store-
keeper, and therefore chaos ensued. When the dis-
turbance was at its height, I stepped forward and
addressed the meeting. My appearance—hem—natur-
ally attractive”—(here-the editor yawned wearily)
created a sensation. The black suit looking glossy
and sleek in the dim light of the kerosene lamp, was a
great card. ‘Gentlemen,’ I said, ‘my name is Pro-
fessor Cyclops.’ A dead silence succeeded this an-
nouncement. • I came,’ I proceeded, ‘ from distant
countries, the fame of Coppertown having reached me.
Gentlemen, I prop- se to edit the Coppertown Casti-
Gator.’ This proposal was received with acclamation
by the meeting, for everyone felt that his neighbour
had been sold. Even the Chinaman cried out, ‘ Wellee
goo’, Kiklopee; you paper litee ; wellee goo’—hoolay! ’
So it was settled. 1 was appointed. The paper was
started with a rush. The weekly circulation was sixty
copies, and the Mayor took the whole of the back page
at £2 a week for his ads. and original poetry. All
went well till The Bulletin began to exchange with
us. Seeing then that yon had hit upon the advanced
style of journalism, I immediately adopted it, only I
was still more advanced, and the community being
very small, my personal items caused some excitement.
Week after week the circulation of the paper went up,
until it grew famed as far down as Rockhampton
Elated with success, I took to poetry. I lampooned
the Mayor in a parody of ‘ The Mad Butcher.’ As he
was the principal proprietor, the effect, was electrical.
All that night the boy was grinding copies on
the donble-demy to meet the exrraordinary demand
for copies of the Coppertown Castigator. At 10 p.m.,
as I entered the Royal Hotel for a schnapps and
peppermint, I could see that there wa* something
unusual on the tapis. The Mayor was in deep converse
with the blacksmith in one parlor, while several resi-
dents kept eyeing me as if I were a natural curiosity,
and laughing insanely the while. In order to awe the
presumptuous bucolics, I produced a very large note-
book (being indeed the office cash-book sawn in half).
But, strange to say, the more notes I took the more the
people laughed. So I went home resolved on vengence
in next issue. That was Saturday. On Monday morn-
ing I went down to the office as usual. To my astonish-
ment I found the door open. I entered hastily: when I
started back transfixed with surprise. Every vestige of
the type and machinery had disappeared. On the
window-ledge was a parcel done up in brown paper, and
addressed to “Professor Cyclops." I opened it. The
contents were a pair of blue blankets, and a scrap of
paper bearing these words :— ‘ Hump your drum and
clear. The Mad Butcher has had his boots half-soled.’
So I cleared. Now, say; Will you give nae a billet ?”
The editor considered a moment. Then he said—“ Yon
are too advanced for this office, but I will give yon a
letter to a friend.” And five minutes afterwards the
ex-editor of the Coppertown Castigator went away as
happy as a prince, bearing in the pocket of his pepper-
and-salt jacket a letter of introduction to the editors of
the Protestant Standard.
A “Father.”
Mn. W. H. Paul, saddler, residing in Howick-street,
Bathurst, received information on Tuesday afternoon
that a young woman, living with her parents in Morri-
set-street, was close upon her confinement, and that her
father would not permit her inside his house. Mr.
Paul communicated with the police, and found that the
inhuman parent had allowed his daughter to remain in
the streets, and she was just confined before the arrival
of the police. She was taken in a cart to the hospital,
and is now being well cared for. The unfortunate
young girl is in a very low state.
Can this be true ? —why it does seem
A hideous and distempered dream!
Fierce savages, wise travelers pr»ve,
Have in their hearts a father’s love!
Amidst the most degraded scum.
That lurk in any loathsome “ slum,”
Not one how’er crime-hardened he.
Would treat his child thus heartlessly!
If she had sinn’d was that the time
To think e’en of the gravest crime ?
And when the, sinner did entreat.
To cast her shudd’ring in the street!
Oh, large as is the round earth’s span
It holds not such another man!
The “Peeler” and the “Potheen.”
A STORY OF WANGARATTA.
“The Wangaratta correspondent of the Melbourne
Argus reports that, on February 22, Constable Patrick
Walsh was charged before the local bench with
burglary In the course of the hearing, Robert
McKenzie, an oysterman, deposed that he had opened
some oysters for the persons abovenamed after one
o’clock, and then, after cleaning some oysters, went to
bed. He was shortly afterwards called up by Mrs.
Cotterell, and went round the house, when he saw some
one deposit two bottles on the ground. He saw the
sleeves of a policeman’s uniform, and on one of them
‘ stripes ’ such as were usually worn by Constable
Walsh and other constables. —The accused was com-
mitted to take his trial.”
Pat. Walsh, he was a trooper bold
(A fine brogue he could patter),
A guardian of the peace was he
Down there at Wangaratta.
Now, Pat he liked his whisky, as
’Twill be seen by this rhyme,
And with his potheen he did love
Just to po-theen his time.
One night the Royal Hotel was shat.
And rain poured from the sky.
Yet Patrick yearned for one more “ wet,”
He was so very dry !
He eyed the hostel. All was dark ;
So then, quoth he, “ I’ll try
Some of the Old Eye whisky—yes.
This ancient bostel—rye.”
And then he laughed aloud with glee ;
He such a funny feller was;
He grinned because he knew, d’ye see,
Where the key of the cellar was. ,
He opened - the window soft —got in.
When, hoop-de-dooden, what a yell.!
He paused, and then he trembled, for
He’d woke up Mrs. Cotterell.
She softly rose, and peeped without.
Quoth she, “ Oh, the base Fenian!”
He’s lowering from the window now
Two bottles of my Kiuahan."
’Twas then she called her oysterman.
Told him to wait without;
And there he saw the wicked Pat,
A hoystering liquor out!
The Sergeant then was fetched, and he
Was very tall and wizen.
He clutche the spirit of the case.
And Walched Pat off to prison.
The Waning of the Honeymoon.
SCENE.—HOLLY LODGE, HIGHGATE, LONDO^.
DRAMATIS PERSON.[?].
Lady Bnrdett-Coutts—Mr. As[?]mead-Bartlett.
[Curtain rises discovering both sitting at the breakfast
table. She with her chair close to his. He eating duck-
eggs and reading the Standard, which is propped up
agaimt the coffee-pot]
Lady B. : Ashmead, gaze out upon the dewy meadows
where the birds are singing, and the cows are low-
ing—where all is calm and quiet, typical of the
smoothness of our love —
Abh. : More coffee, please.
[Site reaches for the coffee-pot and knocks
down his paper. 3
Lady B.: Beloved—
Ash. : Look out what you’re doing with the paper. I
was just in the middle of the police reports.
Lady B (coming round and playing with his hair): My
pretty boy—in each bright pupil of thine eyes there
lives the sun’s reflex —
Ash. ; Confound that fellow; he always forgets the
dry toast.
Lady B. : Once more let my greedy ears drink in the
honeyed words—
Ash. : Pass the jam—
Lady B. (handing pot): To he your slave is my life’s
dream.
Ash. : Oh, hang it; not the black currant —the straw-
berry.
Lady B. : What dreamed my Ashmead of last night—
say, fairy prince^
Ash. (munching suspiciously); I say, we’ll have to change
our grocer. I’ve just found two moths in this jam.
Lady B. : My own, my chosen one, a kiss from thy dear
lips upon my brow, and all elysian joys are mine.
Ash. (wheeling round, and wiping his lips on the table
eover): Look here, old lady, restrain your ardour,
and let’s come to business. There’s a delicious
crib in Buckinghamshire that I’m sweet on. It’s
to be had for a mere trifle.
Lady B.: A trifle. I’m glad of that.
Ash. : Yes: only £250,000.
Lady B. : Oh, lor. Ashy, dear! —
Ash. : I suppose you don’t mind handing over.
[She hands over.]
Lady B. : Were it my heart’s blood, you should have it
to the last drop. Oh, Ashmead!
[Ooo/c comes up for orders, md the inter-
view closes to slow music.]
Curtain.
Where the Pelican Builds.
[BY M. H. F, IN THE AUSTRALASIAN.]
[The unexplored parts of Australia are sometimes
spoken of by the bushmen of Western Queensland as
the home of the pelican, a bird whose nesting-place,
so far as the writer knows, is seldom, if ever, fonnd-1
The horses were ready, the rails were down.
Bat the riders lingered still, —
One had a parting word to say.
And one had his pipe to £11.
Then they mounted, one with a granted prayer.
And one with his grief ungueased.
“ We aro going,” they said, as they rode away—
“ Where the pelican bruits her nest f ”
They had told us of pastures wide and green.
To be sought past the sunset’s glow ;
Of rifts in the ranges by opal lit;
And gold ’neath the river’s flow.
And thirst and hunger were banished words
When they spoke of that unknown West;
No drought they dreamed of, no flood, they feared.
Where the pelican builds her nest!
The Creek at the ford was but fetlock deep
When we watched them crossing there;
The rains have replenished it twice since then.
And thrice has the rock loin bare.
But the waters of Hope have flowed and fled.
And never from blue hill’s breast
Come baok~by the sun and t le rands devoured—
Where the pelican builds her nest 1
Queensland.


Public Companies
lOMMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY OP
' SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £575,000. Eeserve Fund, £580,000.
Directors ;
Hie hard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E,
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq , Manager.
Auditors :
C. T. Oedye, Esq.; J. E. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Scarvell.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office —George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Bart, Accountant; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Hay market, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
Loudon Office —39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; P. H. Dan gar.
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales.—Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bownil, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbell town, Cannon bar. Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Cootamnn Ira,
Oadal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forces, Germanton, Glen
Tnnea, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, luverell, Eempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed Eiver), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queaubeyan, Quirindi,
Richmond, Shoa,'haven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tmnbammba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lers wang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wileannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Woodium, Tass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queenslan d : Brisbane. Dalby, Mackay,
Mivry oorough, and Eockhampton,
Aobnoies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
SOUTH Australia : The Bank ot south Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania ; The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand ; National Bask of New Zealand.
Agencies betond the Colonies.
London > The Loudon and Westminster Bank, and the
Loudon and County Bank.
Liverpool; The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester ■' The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland.- The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York; Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India. China and Singapore: The Chartered Bank of
Inlia, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
M ircantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceyios; The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
Loudon, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; 00l loots dividends on shores
In public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
(pr its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTOEIA (LIMITED). •
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BEANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Chairman.
Ehenezer Vickery. Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STKICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PEOFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Besident Secretary.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEOEGE-
STEEET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049.
Directors :
Sir P. A. Jennings. K.O M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Aldermen John Young, J P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. j Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. E. J. Eubie, Esq.
T. E. Smith, Esq . M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
PIKE DEPAETMEN I’.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PEEMLUMS ON BO PH FIEE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS A NY Office oi the Oolony, and POLICY-HOLDEES
participate in tho profit.
JAMES S. BEAY,
Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager,
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes wait from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month-
£4oo do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney,Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—Tho above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quart,v -crushing. Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sagar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Public Companies
rpHE
MERCANTILE BANK OP SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 187 ft
Paid-up Capital . £360,000
Reserve Fund. £115,000
DIEECTOES:
The Hou. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hos. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King
AUDITOES:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECEETAET:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, ,587, George-street,
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—Q. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
A BRANCH of this BANK, under the management
of ME. JOHN SOUTTAE, will be opened at 90 Pitt-
street, in the first week of March.
B. E. DEUEY,
General Manager.
General Manager’s Office,
Brisbane, 11th February, 1881.
c
OENWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
RESERVE FUND
£BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEEET,
SIDNEY.
The national mutual fire
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA (Limited).
Established 1869.
The only Life Office in the Australian colonies which,
has been conducted on PURELY MUTUAL PRIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and Co.), Chairman.
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Hurbottlo, Biddulph, and Alsop).
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made by the Association
belongs to the policyholders, and is divided among them
every THREE YEARS,
been exceptionally large.
The bonuses declared have
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY F. FRANCIS, Resident Secretary.
a. churchwood.
147 YORK STREET.
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OP
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURRY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
’for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLAN DT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
w
H. a r I e
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
313 and 345 Kent-steeet, near King-street.
L L.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
E. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo;Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbura Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 315 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.
OOALCL. IFF COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) tbs
lowest payable price was fixed FOE THE TON—224olb.
net, not onL in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial 1 and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING. ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, m
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, lubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANE
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town: —
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines
235. Ditto double-screened
225. Ditto single ditto
Small coal by special agreement. t
Wood and Charcoal, &0., at current price.
B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
j- Coalcliff.
1 Newcastle.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
«-
—I
SOLE MANUPACTUEEES:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCOED WOEKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY !
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Ibis is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting? Country Eesidences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more bnllumt than coal pas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entixelfecouflned to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
ior full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make pas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
al f° teg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
pro SO COrds ' This Fastener was awarded FIRST PEIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
&
a
i
m
/•
i BE THI BUT IN THE WORLD
W.DAVIES i CT coulbuhh.M.S.H
uxxewufiiu
35
BUT
THE
MAM UFA CTUKBS
Mr
T
HE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
TL
tU£ecr
*u
*
*
IASTte
ECONWrCM
&
C 5
THE PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., J gal., and I gaL
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us:—"Woollahm, August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
E CBBEE PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences.” *
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC EIJBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all ports of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMSTEONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MAEKET STEEET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
Gr.
H,
A. SMI'
88 KING STEEET
(From Eotherham’s, London),
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLEEY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under G. A. S/s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXPOED STEEET.
URPHY AND SON,
LMPOETEES OP
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (fiat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Eesin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
White and Eed Lead
Turpentine
Eaw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
Varnishes
MTYED PAINT, EEADY FOE USE, ANY SHADE
EEQUIRED,
All orders promptly executed by Eail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BEITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAEEHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEOEGB STEEET WEST.
OUT
L 0 0 K
BAILY k HOETON’S MINSTEELS.
POE
N
EW REFLECTING LAMPS FOE GAS OE
KEROSENE.
a
•A
NIW
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, Ac.
BAEWELL AND FISHEE’S DUPLEX
GAS BUENEES JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, Ac.
J. HAWKSFOED, 66 MARKET STREET.
458 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Mabkets.
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERMANENT TINTS.
LBERT S. MANDERS AND CO.,
'(Late Grant, Mandeks and Geant),
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC. ADVERTISING AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 LITTLE COLLINS ST. EAST, MELBOURNE.
Victorian, Intercolonial, and New Zealand papers
supplied, and Advertisements received for the same.
We can supply Australian and New Zealand News-
papers with Articles, Reports of Meetings, Correspon-
dence, and General News, either by letter or telegram ;
and Newsagents and other business people can have any
kind of business transacted- in Melbourne by applica-
tion to us.
The above Firm have Agents in all the colonies, from
whom they get all the earliest Sponing News, and now
supply, at moderate cost, the leading Hotels, Clubs, &0.,
with telegrams of results, after each race, of all Sydney
and Victorian Race Meetings.
Houelt Telegrams op Peincipal Ceicket Matches,
&c., SUPPLIED.
We are prepared to forward the result of any or every
race to any part of the Australian colonies imme-
diately after the horses pass the post, or at the termi-
nation of the day’s sport.
Special arrangements made for New Zealand and
Tasmania,
Sole Agents in Australia and New Zealand for the
TYPOGEA.PH. Send for Circulars. Will print 5000
copies of Circulars, Drawings, Music, &c., on permanent
paper, and on any paper. No washing-out required.
P. 0.0. made payable to the above.
Rent and Accounts collected. Every description of
PRINTING executed.
OOK OUT FOE
BALLY k HORTON’S MINSTRELS.


Chemists and Druggists
T
PILLS
AKE NO MORE
but try
RANDEE SON'S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUPPER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Randerson’a
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion I
Take a few doses of Randersos’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and ho cured by
RANDBKSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUB MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your chpdren sick at any time P Ton
can safely give «hem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES,
•®* Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
B
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualties attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson's Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is' of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON'S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
/CENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
steer’s Rhubarb
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOB
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
%• They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to oostiveness.,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPHR.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
Garmore’s Artificial Ear Drums
RESTORE TILS HcAKLNO mid perform the work
of the Natural Drum Remain in position without aid,
and are not observable. All Conversation and even
whispers heard distinctly. Wo refer to those using them.
Send for descriptive circular.
Address FREbHM AN, JONES &CO-.
339 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Try BU S H ELL
FOR
SIGNS.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
OUT FOR
BAILY t HORTON’S MINSTRELS.
Business Announcements
H. P
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
Q,
352 Georg e-street.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERT RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BT
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor's,
Sonfleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and ComxJany’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blao
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
Va
RAIW^SoXI
W. fei C ipMS
\ ' iv- * •’ • , '*capai cC * v :>: iM
A 25 HUNTER STRffri A 4 '
‘ ■in? Watch Makers.
Mpncijws.'
REDGATE’S
PATEIT MEM.
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet fot
children or persons in delicate health.
TNE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■eM fey all Grocen and gfertkeeMiu
"El AND F. W. MASON
DRAUGHTSMEN
. AND
Enoravkbs on Wood,
land, assurance, and general agents
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.)
RON AND BRASS BEDS.TBAD
’ _ Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
"Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
manufacturer and importer.
608 Georgo-street.
Chemists and Dr
ft
U B
THE following Li
WATSON’S RENOWNED 1
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to tl
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ant
Watson's (Vegetable) Wo;
Watson’s Gingerbread Wo
Watson’s Compound Chlo:
Watson's Strengthening E
Watson’s Australian Vern
Watson’s Excelsior Tooth
Watson’s Concentrated G<
Elixir (a most valuabl
can be obtained, wholesale and I
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
" oSl GEORGE STR
POTHECABII
14 OXFORD STR:
Near Hyde Park <
(N.B.—The Tram-car stoj
W. D. EAMES, P
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLE1
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and Nei
W. D, E. thanks the. public an<
for the support hitherto accorded 1
Irrespective of Club prescriptio
has dispensed 34,000 original presi
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAI
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THi
Every prescription is CAREFU
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbei
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folb
BAMES’8 Q U I N I
Which improves the appetite a
stomach.
E AMES’S D I G E S T ;
For severe cases where the gastr
and when sickness and tlatulen
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANT]
Which relievo the bowels gently, s
naturally healthy functions
orcwiia
Tobacconists
JAMES EYE’S
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cat Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
/
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the BOUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 TOEK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
S*.
db
a
ms
V*\s
vs
Manufactured by
T. S A TW E LL,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
rji HO S. J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS. GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES'AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description execnted.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
CO.,
JgJ CLARKE AND
Wholesale and Retail
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TRAMWAY TICKETS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Conrt-honse),
DAELINGHUEST.
N ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
VISIT
m
z,
o
%
t
FOR GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INSTRUMENT
PIANOS. ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for OASI
Letters promptly attended to
A, HUENERBBIN, Jus.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).


THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE % RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OP THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture —best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest Eng fish and Foreign samples.
CC
H—
CO
CO
CC
CD
in
CD
I—
o
CD
I—
LU
CC
CO
OUR CUSTOMERS REAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUR LARGE CASH PURCHASES.
We Buy fob Cash—We Sell foe Cash.
Only those who have visited our establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
We abstain from giving a full List of Prices, as
it would only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rata.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
SHIRTS! SHIRTS! AT MANUFACTURERS’ PRICES.
GOWING BROTHERS,
Haring bought (at a rery large discount for cash) a consignment of Gentlemen's White Shirts
are now selling the same at manufacturers’ prices.
J. E. GOWING, 332 GEORGE STREET, Half wat between Post Office and Huhtee Stkeet;
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 George-street, Opposite Central Police Court.
GENTLEMEN’S FRENCH SHIRTS,
FINE CAMBRIC BODIES,
PURE LINEN FRONTS AND CUFFS,
MILITARY FRONT, BUTTON BACK,
4s. 6d. EACH
OR
SIX FOR 255.
Gentlemen are respectfully invited to inspect the above, as we are convinced they are the very best
value that has ever been offered in the Sydney market. The same goods
• are usually sold at 84a. the dozen.
# # * See Shirts in Window, 332 Geobgk Stbbet. J. E. GOWING, Men’s Mercer, Outfitter, &c.
J.
GOWING BROTHERS’ 3s. lid. military front, open hack, White Shirts, are unrivalled.
GOWING BROTHERS, 500 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Central Police Court; and
E. GOWING, 332 GEORGE STREET,
HALF WAY BETWEEN THE POST OFFICE AND HUNTER STREEP.
JgLADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and ORANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle,
BLA.DON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rational remedy as a preventive or cure of Biliousness,
all Functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Im-
fnrities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
ndigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dnlgence in rich food, or the anuse of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, Ac.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, S . all Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseased. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities if possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master-
piece—Man. Remember this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
A PPROVED BY THE GOVERNOR.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I have to inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and the
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform you that his Excellency
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“ Reginald Bloxsome, P.S.
“Mr. W. 6. Bladon.”
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
The Australian Churchman says :
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK.
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2a. 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co.. Brisbane.
a
N*|ADE JO «*,
pi/\IN
.. » ■ ■ —: .. ■‘ >l • ...
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND.GENEYA WATOHBS.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime,
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds
Plain figures —Low prices.
jgJNJOY LIFE.
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest t > enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet , many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most hitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsia and Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every dav to he carried off by PARALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would aftk yon
in good faith that yon try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s 6d.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
T ET
H. HOOKINGS & CO.’
PURE
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
ESTABLISHED 1844
T
O SQUATTERS, HORSE BREEDERS, AND
OTHERS.
THE SYDNEY TRAMWAY AND OMNIBUS CO.,
Limited, are purchasers of
GOOD UPSTANDING HORSES,
4 to six years old, lit for coaching.
Apply—Head Office, 66 King-street, Sydney.
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSONS EXTRACTiiF§OftP.
Trade mark “ Arm and Dolly ” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
AL yAY S
TRADE
MARK
Wm
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USES
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, 4c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, 4c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. KEEP & 00.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
J3OTAL FURNISHING ARGADE.
HOUSES PUE-
WISHED
throughout in
the nicest and
most economical
manner. Full
particulars post
free to all parts
of the colonies.
EVERY WED-
NESDAY, we
keep open until
nine o’clock for
the convenience
of those who can-
not attend daring
the day. The
SHOW-ROOMS
are well lit, and
every attention
afforded inspect-
ing visitors and
intending pur-
chasers.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B. Campbell.
LARGE
AMOUNTS OF
money have been
saved by pur-
chasing at the
Royal Furnishing
Arcade, which
has from time to
time been ac-
knowledged a
great boon to the
public.
EFFORTS TO
make the Arcade
a centre attrac-
tion have to the
present time been
most successful.
Visitors feel such
a pleasure in
walking through
the Show-Rooms
they can do so
without being
worried or even
expected to make
a purchase.
SAVE MONET
by purchasing at
the ROYAL
PUNISHING
ARCADE,
426, & 423,
Geoege - Street,
Next the
Royal Hotel.
THERE CAN
be no better proof
of the increasing
popularity of the
Royal Furnish-
ing Arcade than
the last month’s
record of its busi-
ness transactions
If you are about
to furnish pro-
cure a copy of our
Economical
House Furnish-
ing Guide. You
will find it very
suggestive, and
consequently a
great help. All
classes of goods
are kept. It is
our constant
study to buy in
the cheapest mar-
and give our cus-
tomers every
satisfaction.
CAMPBELL
BROTHERS,
late
W. B, Campbell.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEORGE STREET,
, Next the Royal Hotel.
M AN L T
BEACH.
A. PORTER, FAMILY BUTCHER,
CORNER BELGRAVE AND RAGLAN STREETS.
MANLY.
Best country killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
kinds of Poultry. Small Goods always on hand.
Families waited on daily.
y j OOK OUT FOE
BAILY & HOETON’S MINS PEELS.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
[BY ONE OF Us.]
Bob Wilson is going to build a transcontinental.
He has not yet arranged the starting point.
A new music hall is likely to be an accomplished
fact in Brisbane. It is said that a prominent journalist
is finding a good bit of “ sugar.”
An elopement recently took place in Brisbane.
Immediately after the marriage the eloper and eloperess
separated, temporarily—the former having been horned
by a bullock.
In Queensland, a very general impression pre-
vails that “ Griffith’s valuation ” means Sam Griffith’s
assessment of the price at which the present Ministry
can be bought and sold.
A Mr. Stamm has been appointed to the Queens-
land Commission of the Peace. Mr. Stamm is married.
l_We are glad to see some stamina given to the weak-
kaeed JJ.P. They want it.— Ed. Bulletin.]
* The revision of the Queensland Statutes has
been committed to the care of a barrister who does
most of his revising on his back balcony, which over-
looks the theatre, now in course of re-construction.
A barrister of some reputation in Brisbane has
bad to pat up with the rough side of the tongue from
more than one of his brother “ smuts ” lately. Since
bis last row with the P.M., he is considered likely to
shave his head and go North..
A “ young blood,” well known throughout the
colonies, is a part proprietor of the Brisbane Tbleokaph.
He also knocks out about a thousand a week from his
mining speculations. Yet still he goes home in a
common ’bus.
Theresa a married man in Brisbane who recently
got a decree nisi for the dissolution of his marriage.
He applied to have the decree made absolute in due
course, and had even arranged to get married next day.
Hark his astonishment when the Attorney-General,
as Queen’s Proctor, intervened, and put off the
nuptials 1
It is currently reported that on a certain public
occasion within the last few mouths an M L A., who
bos achieved some celebrity in the corn-grinding line,
bod not a dress coat for the ceremony. He is a wealthy
man, and it cost 17s. fid. in cabs travelling round among
bis friends to see if he could borrow the much-needed
garment.
THE KOOKABURRA.
If a borrower comes, lend him your ear only.
A Weather Point. —A ml wind.—A dead calm.
A Chiropodist’s Sign.—Corns eradicated in to to.
Better than to go as yon please—To please as
yon go.
The “elements” of discord —Our water and
•ur gas.
The eternal fitness of things. —A chip hat on a
Hook-head.
In a game of cards, “a good deal depends on
‘ a good deal.”'
Some men are called muffs because they are
used to keep a flirt’s hand in.
Irishmen are always laying bare their grievances,
because they want them re-dressed.
It is a difficult thing for a dog without a tail to
show his master how much he thinks of him.
“ Lost on the Moor ” is the title of a new book.
Yet there is not a word in it about Desdemona.
“ Uncle,” observed Johnny, “ you appear to eat
well.” Urchin : “Yes, I’ve been a practising all my
life.'*
Judges at baby shows in Kentucky wear masks.
It saves unpleasantness after the prizes have been
awarded.
He wired to her: “What have you for break-
fast, and how is the baby ?” Replied she: “Breakfast
oakes and the measles.”
It is claimed that a man never loses anything
by politeness, but this has proved a mistake. As an
old fellow lifted his hat to a young lady, the wind
carried away his wig.
A restaurateur having fallen out with his neigh-
bour, a chemist, the latter avenged himself by putting
i» his window the following notice: “ Diners next door
attended to immediately.”
Scene. —Edwin and Angelina in drawing-room;
the former on his knees, holding Angelina’s hand.
Servant suddenly enters. " Please, Miss, here’s Mr.
Jones.” Angelina: “ Don't you see I’m not at home to
any one."
The story is told of Colonel Ingersoll, but it is
just as good if related of Chsrley Bright. He the
other day got angry with some of his flock, and said:
“ You can go to ; no, confound it I —come to think,
there is none. However, yon can go, anyhow.”
He was a Survey Department man. He never
had been conceited about the size of his feet, and when
he missed one of his slippers the other day and found
that his careful wife had set a hen and clutch of eggs
in it, he fully realised the fact that man wants but
little here below.
After wedding breakfast. Departure of happy
pair. Child: “Why do they throw thing-i at the
pretty lady in the carriage ?” Young lady : “ For luck,
dear.” Child : “ And why doesn’t she throw them
back?” Young lady: “Oh, that would be rude.”
Child (promptly): “No, it wouldn’t. Ma doss.”
He was a professor of dancing, and was about
to give a ball to his pupils. So he handed in to a certain
unfashionable evening newspaper an advertisement to
the effect that “ Professor , in order to show his
thanks to the public, intends giving,” Ac But the
intelligent compositor made “ thanks ” read “ sharks.”
Jeames (first lacquey), to Chawles, second ditto:
“I see the witnmen has took to plush now, Chawles.
Himitation is the sinoerest flattery, eh ? ” Chawles :
“My dear fellar, I’ve hexpected it for a longtime;
they couldn’t see the .material on hns day after day
without noticing its advantages to a really helegant
Agger.”
Says Queensland Punch : “In order to dispel
aaydoubts that may arise in the minds of the com-
manders of ships of war cruising in the South Stas, and
to prevent the infliction of any undue severity upon the
islanders, the following table of equivalents is herewith
made public :—A white-man’s life is worth 1 cocoa-nut
tree, } acre bananas, t acre yams, 4 canoes, 1 old woman
(wounded). 1 prisoner, and 2 witnesses N.B.— Auy
British officer, or subject, exceeding his authority as
above defined, will be guily of a capital offence."
With reference to Miss Kennedy’s offer of a
prize to the Toowoomba Grammar School boy who
succeeds in making the best bow, Queensland Punch
hopes that " this will call attention to a hitherto sadly
neglected branch (or rather bough) of education. But
there will be more difficulty than appears at first sight
in fixing upon the tmmp-card—that is to say, the
“ Beat Bower." We want a definition of a bow. We
want to know the point of a how. We want to know
from which of the spinal vertebras the curvature is to
take its start. We want to know the number of
degrees prescribed for the declination of the head, and
what allowance will be made for the persona! equation
in the matter of long necks or short ones. We want to
know whether the competition is to be simultaneous
or successive ; and above all, to what pole-star the axis
of the head is to be inclined.” Further. Punch is of
opinion that the race will be won by a head.


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Anv.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. George Shenon is the new Mayor of Perth.
Twenty-two years ago R. S. Smythe edited a
squatt’ng newspaper at Deniliquin.
Mr. Hoffman, Director of the Bank of Victoria,
and an old Victorian colonist, is dead.
The Earl and Countess of Ellesmere are on a
visit to Sydney, en route to Queensland.
Sir George Grey was born at Lisbon, Portugal,
flis father, Colonel Grey, died when engaged in the
assault at Badajoz.
Dr. Renwick, our Executive Commissioner, and
Mr. R- B. Smith, his active assistant, returned from
Melbourne on Tuesday.
Mr. Boucicault, for many years of Rockhampton,
and brother to Mr. Dion Boucicault, the dramatist, is
a publisher in London, and has issued a tale of Austra-
lian life, having Ned Kelly for its hero.
The only survivor of the old Melbourne news-
paper proprietors, and one of the “fathers" of the
Melbourne Abgps, is Mr. J. S. Johnston, still con-
nected with the business management of that journal.
The will of the late Mr. James Blackwood
(Dalgetty, Blackwood, and Co., of Melbourne,) has
been proved under £99,000; and that of Mr. Thomas
Napier, a well-known Victorian colonist, also recently
dead, at £52,000,
The Hon. Wm. Forster has had a cottage resi-
dence taken for him at Elizabeth Bay, where he will re-
side for a few months. His estate. Brush Farm, has
been sold for £ls,ooo—Mr. John Bennett and Mr. Threl-
keld, purchasers.
Sir Henry Parkes is the autocrat of the
Executive. If a colleague asks in Council for a little
job, and he doesn’t approve, he gently remarks, “ I
refuse to consent to thisl” and the job isn’t done —the
colleague collapses.
That gifted authoress, “ Tasma,” with whose
writings all Australians are familiar, is now in Paris.
She contributes an interesting paper, entitled “ A
Communistic Gathering,” to the current number of
The Australasian.
We are very sorry indeed to hear that Mr.
Harry Mostyn, son of the genial Mr. Harry P. Mostyn
(“ Pegasus ”), and brother of Mr. E. P. Mostyn (“ New
Warrior"), died suddenly at Thurgomindah, Queens-
and, on the 18th February.
Five of the children of an able but unfortunate
man who lately went to his last account, are in the
Catholic Orphan School at Parramatta. Surely wealthy
relatives might have avoided this ! And what about the
brotherhood of the “ Bar ? ” Alas!
Authors get hints from queer sources some-
times. The new story which Mr. Thomas Hardy is
writing for Harper’s Magazine is called “ A Laodi-
cean,” a title and an idea derived from the “ Angel of
the Laodiceans ” in Revelations iii. 14, that was neither
hot nor cold.”
Baron Maklay, the distinguished Russian scien-
tist, at present in Sydney, though personally unac-
quainted with the family of or with the late Mr. Kreflt,
has most generously offered to educate, at his own
expense, the elder of the deceased gentleman’s two
children, a boy about nine years of age.
On Saturday evening next, at the Bnrwood
School of Arts, a complimentary dinner will be given to
Mr. John Dawson, senr., the well-known solicitor, who
leaves for England by the next P. and O. steamer. Mr.
Dawson has hosts of friends, and as the arrangements
tor Saturday’s gathering are in excellent hands, the
affair, no doubt, will be a most enjoyable one.
The other day, Sir W. F. Stawell, Chief Justice
01 \j c * ;or^a > an< t his Associate, who were anxious to
reach Melbourne by the late train from Castlemaine,
had to travel in a crowded second-class compartment.
I fl t 3 same train, however, two Berryite M.'sL.A. had
a first-class compartment to themselves. It has since
Deen explained that the Chief Justice, who is very par-
ticular as to his company, travelled in the second-class
compartment by choice.
„ Duke of Manchester was banqueted in
splendid style by the Warwick Council, on the 7th. Sir
■hrthur Kennedy, the Colonial Secretary, Minister for
Lands, Postmaster-General, the Hon. J. P. Bell, and
70 other gentlemen, were present. His Grace eulogised
the prospects of Australia, and, among other things,
said that our farmers, having been encouraged to go
too far inland, could not, with distant markets and no
communication be expected to succeed.
Some of the Melbourne papers have described
a doctor, who is to succeed a well-known Gollins-street
surgeon in practice in that city, as “ the handsomest
man in Europe." A back blocks correspondent writes
us saying that the fair doctor in question has already
resided in Australia; that he was, when last seen, un-
deniably handsome, but that “ from the class of men
who carry their swags, one could be chosen excelling
the doctor in all points of manly beauty, if put through
the Turkish bath, barber’s shop, and tailor’s.” But
then, perhaps, Mr. “ Back Blocks" is jealous.
The Rev. Charles Strong, who has been indicted
for heresy by the Presbyterian Assembly of Victoria, is
a tall young man, with light hair and beard, and an ex-
pression of countenance, the general character of which
is best described as satirical and quizzical, yet tinged
with much kindness. Mr. Strong divests himself of all
the appearance which is usually termed clerical. He
has no white necktie, and swathes his legs in brown
tweed. He reads his sermons, like nearly all the other
Presbyterian clergymen. His voice is never raised
high, but he proceeds almost in a silvery monotone.
Lang years ago, when the gold mines were in
the zenith of their richness and power, “ Bob the
Doctor ” was a character well known and appreciated
by the rough, uncouth diggers. Possessed of splendid
talent, he yet wasted the fine powers of his mind and
sustenance in a life-long sacrifice to drink. Fortune
strangely enough smiled upon him, but it was of no
avail. Fast as it come, faster still it fled. Some time
ago the influence of a powerful friend procured him
a remunerative post in a country township; but
again the evil habit overpowered him, and eventually
ended in his services being dispensed with. This
seemed to prey upon him, and, to drown remorse, he
broke forth into the most terrible debauch of his
eventful existence. In all the excruciating tortures of
delirium tremen she fled into the depths of the bush, and
there, far away from civilisation, with no friendly hand
to soothe his burning brow, he died. Many who
remember bis kindly voice and pleasantjface in other
days will join with us in offering up the simple prayer,
“ Peace be to his ashes!”
He was the ghost of an editor, —or, rather, he
had the ghost of a paper to edit. He lived not a
hundred miles from the Historic Borough, and black-
guarded a Civil Servant most consumedly. The Civil
Servant, who is a muscular Christian, bought a horse-
whip, and that editor’s life has since been a burden to
him. He was acting secretary to a preliminary Masonic
meeting; the C.S. came along, and then the editor left.
He was playing in a “ Muffs’ matchas soon as the C.S.
appeared, the scribe dropped the willow, and hopped
the fence. He had joined the Good Templars, and was
taking a nobbier in the bar-parlour—to give resolution
a treat; but he bravely resigned the—ahem ! —raspberry
when the aggrieved C.S. walked in. He no longer
quotes “ Hans Breitmann,” and is preparing anelaborate
apology. If it fail, he will edit his meat-preserver from
across the border.
Mr. H. E. Downer, the Adelaide Commissioner
of Insolvency, has resigned. There was great fun in
connection with Mr. D. some time ago. A debtor’s wife
came to intercede with him for her husband, and Mr.
Downer granted his release, but, as she alleged, en-
deavoured to be rather more polite than a judge should
be. The day after the hnsbaud came out, he issued a
summons against Mr. Downer for assaulting his wife.
Mr. Villeneuve Smith (who had been put in gaol for
libelling the Commisioner some time before) appeared
for the complainant, and “Charley Mann’’ for the
defendant. The case proved to be entirely trumped up,
and was.'scouted out of court. In the days that inter-
vened before the summons was returnable, the Com-
missioner sat in his court as usual,—and, indeed, until
two or three minutes before the case came on, he was
dealing out even-handed justice to insolvents and their
creditors. His resignation will be a great loss, for he
was an able judge and a capital fellow.
THE FASHIONS.
[BY THE MAN-MILLINER,”]
Chenille is much in vogue for millinery.
A new contrast is brown and water-green.
False hair is again being worn in great abun-
dance.
Snails are the latest French fancy for orna-
ments.
Worcester blue and old gold is the latest con-
trast in color.
Fur hats are trimmed with cords and tassels:
no feathers.
There is a mania at home for old coins and old
embroideries.
Ladies are carrying coloured Indian silk pocket-
handkerchiefs.
Diamond marguerites with ruby hearts are
worn in the hair.
White plush hats and bonnets will be worn for
dress for the winter.
Large red plush fans mounted on gold sticks are
the leading novelty at home.
The newest color is known as oreille d’ours or
bear’s-ear—a rich, warm tint.
Little girls’ bonnets have a poke front and a
“ Mother Hubbard " crown.
Diamonds are now set like paving-stones, with
tiny sparks to fill the crevices.
Birds’ and beasts’ claws are seen in great
abundance on hats and bonnets.
Anklets of gold, with diamond pendants, are nice
for evening. Bangles have quite died out.
In toques, “ The Raphael,” trimmed with a
bouquet of feathers, is elegant and becoming.
The last things in brocaded velvets are hearts,
spades, and diamonds, exquisitely wrought in gold on
dark grounds. They are very beautiful for trimmings,
and are much in vogue in Paris and London.
Ravishing little “Mary Stuart” bonnets are
made of plush trimmed with bands of gold lace.
The “ Queen Elizabeth” is the latest thing in
hats. It is very stylish, but only suits a tall figure.
Black velvet hats, “ Tam ” shape, with from
nine to twelve tips, are elegant and most becoming.
Most fashionable costumes have plush hoods,
and pocket aumonieres of the same beautiful stuff en
suite.
Louis XIY. gloves are new for full dress. They
have insertions and ruffs of Honiton lace up to the
elbow.
The toque in plush velvet is much worn at home
this seasoni again. Some are seen with strings, and
look well.
Millinery muffs will be a leading novelty this
season, and are fast taking favour in Sydney. They
are elegant and useful.
Large red plush hats, Rubens’ shape, and small
red bonnets, Princess shape, take the lead in Paris and
New York this season.
Plush petticoats are made very scanty and are
shirred a considerable! distance [at the top so as to fit
closely below the waist.
Ibis, peacock, pheasant, and lophophore feathers
are the favourites. Of course the ostrich takes _the
lead.
Piney feathers are worn in abundance on both
hats and bonnets, and are sometimes to Jbe seen
powdered in silver and jet.
The engagement-ring is now worn on the third
finger of the left hand—the same finger the wedding-
ring is afterwards worn upon.
The hair is worn either high or low, as best suits
the contour of the head. Hairdressing is an art that
requires much taste and refinement.' Parisian hair-
dressers ’are copying from the sculpture-galleries all
Roman coiffures, —the favourites being Minerva, Juno,
and Berenice. Some are becoming, but care must be
taken that the style suits the face, as ill-arranged
tresses are enough to frighten the gods.
Gloves for the evening are hand-painted in floral
designs, monograms, crests, &c. They should cover the
entire arm, andjmeet the sleeve.
“ Francis I.” collars are sure to become favour-
ites. They are made of plush and satin. No fashion-
able costume is seen without them.
Gold crowns, with a fringe of coins, have been
worn very much lately for evening. They are not very
new, but make a pretty dressing for the hair.
Real insects and beetles make very handsome
neck ornaments when nicely put on velvet. At night
they look particularly well and becoming.
The “Leonardo Da Yinci” cap, for the street,
is a novelty. It is made of either plush or velvet, to
suit the dress; and trimmed with Spanish tufts.
The “ Mrs. Wheeler ” bonnet is an article turned
up high in front and filled in with shaded roses, little
trimming outside, with broad black satin strings.
At the Winter exhibition at the Dudley Gallery
the prevailing colours in drapery on most pictures of
“Beauties” by the best artists were yellow and deep
red.
Bridal dresses are made with two long sweeping
trains. The first is cut square, and the top one is cut
round, and not nearly so long. Pearls are worn in
abundance.
Fur hoods are novelties. They are finished off
with wide brown or black satin loops in front of
brown or black satin. Cuffs to match are frequently
worn, and look distingnd.
The latest novelties in slippers for evening are
black or colored satin, almost covered with beads of
the same shade as the foundation. Black with jet is
the rage at home and on the Continent.
The new ribbon is called “ Pom-pom.” It is to
be had in every shade, is not expensive, and is a very
beautiful finish to the toilet. It is worn on the neck,
mixed with lace, and is also used in millinery.
Plaid velvet is again making its appearance.
A hat of this rich material, worked with gold—the brim
turned up all round, the crown chiflonnde in plush and
trimmed with a bright-coloured bird—is very beautiful.
When black velvet gets discoloured, it dyes a
beautiful seal brown. Ladies having old black velvet
or velveteen dresses should get them dyed. Brown
velvet trimmed with tartan satin de Lyon looks
elegant.
There is quite a furore for black, cream, and
colored Spanish laces at home. It is feared amongst
the trade in Sydney that it will be very scarce here this
season, as well as plush, for which there is a very great
demand at present.
The loveliest thing imaginable for ball dresses
is a new make of crape tulle. It is lighter than crape
and less transparent, and is made in all colors. It
looks elegant in cream-color, and goes charmingly over
nacarat satin and cream plush embroidered in pearls
and gold.
The latest “ fad ” in the fashionable world is a
fashion representing three dresses, worn one above the
other, each of a different fabric. It is copied from one
of Titian’s pictures, and seems composed of an under-
dress of old gold satin, a second short plaid dress, and a
third trailing brocade robe.
The key-note of the winter fashions will be the
use of plush of all colors for every article of the femi-
nine toilette—bonnet, muff, jacket, dress trimming
petticoats, gloves, &c. One of the prettiest fancies
born of plush is a big Rubens hat trimmed with shaded
feathers with collar and cuffs en suite.
The simplest black dress can be metamorphosed
in an instant into an elegant toilette by one of those
charming millinery suites. Plush collars are made of
different shapes : the favourite are “ The Sailor ” “The
King of Rome,” “ The Dauphin,” “The Robespierre."
in Pans there is one for every shade of political
opinion.
THE AMERICAN NOVELTY COMPANY’S ESTABLISHMENT, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Bowling Analysis, Combined First Innings.
Balls. Bnns. Maidens. Wkts.
SpoSorth 184 ... 69 ... 20 ... 3
Palmer
68
36 ... 7
0
Boyle
120
60 ... 9
5
Alexander
64
28 ... 5
2
Spoffortb
472
Second innings.
... 92 ... 10
0
Boyle
210
79 ... 15
3
Alexander
164
57 ... 22
6
Palmer
108
52 ... 12 ...
1
AdStbalian Team’s First Innings.
Midwinter 96 ... 29 ... 11
3
Brans
197
... 44 ... 32
5
Cooper
36
27 ... 2 ...
0
Garrett
44
15 ... 4
0
Edwards
41
12 ... 7
0
M'Shane
36
... 11 ... 4
2
D. Gregory
12
13 ... 0
0
M'Shane
117
Second Innings.
45 ... 15 ...
9
Evans
116
31 ... 14 ...
1
The only electric-lighted sun-eclipsing big
THE BEINT DEEP.
THE LARGEST AND BEST CIRCUS EVER I
AT SYDNEY,
TWELVE DAYI
GOMMEN
REPEODUCI
ALL EARTH’S
under tl
BRUSH-DYNi
in c
W. W. CO
M
AND CONGEES
W. W. COLE’S
CIRCUS, MENAC
AND CONGRESS OF LIVU
Illuminated throughout by the dazzling Electric Light, the m
literally turning night to daj
THE ONLY SHOW THAT FAITHFULLY KI
Presenting every feature advertised, and permitting no pe
First appearance on the Continent of the World i
The Heroine Hurdle Hider
By all nations crowned “ Queen of the Blazing Zone in her Darin
through Hoops of Fire, and fearless ventures which require
The Adonis of the Arena William O I
Peerless Horseman and Sununersaultist Mr. Wooda Ci
The Greatest of all Lady Riders
The Equestrian Queen
The Beautiful and Dashing Empress of the Air
Earth’s Greatest Character Rider
The only and Original -Erial Bicycle Riders
B
aeYci£jraiNe^g
LIVING TAB
BY THE
PERFORM
STALLIO
JOST AS RERHE!
The Champion Acrobats of Every Clime.
The Great Horizontal Bar Team
The Most Comical of all Clowns
SINGER'S SEWING ft
THE
s
INGER
MANUFACTURE
Have opened a Depo
s
YDNET, AT No. 1
HAEBOUE
BAR
STEE
8
INGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sent
8
INGER’S SEWING
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLE;
8
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of nea
8
INGER’S, THE BEST F
Have received 160 First Pi
8
INGERS SEWING
Ten per cent, for c
8
J-NGER’S, BEST FOR 3
SINGEE’S MEDIUM MACH
8
INGERS SEWING
Easy Terras, 2s. 6d. w
8
INGERS THE BEST ]
See the New No. 4 Mi
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-
-8
INGEE’S SEWING
HAND OE TEEAI
8
INGEE’S. The BEST. The
MACHINE—Light to Work,
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6i
8
INGER’S, THE BEST;
LEAEN. New Improvement
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
8
INGER’S, THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and hi
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
8
INGER’S THE BEST and A
Will last a lifetime in cc
8
INGER’S SEWING
ADDEESS: T 1
8
INGER MANUFACTUEI
No. IDAELING STOEES, Ha
8
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymai
have been appointed agents fo
machines.
Call and see them—Month’
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cai
SINGEE’S SEWING M.
SINGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
Remember, there is
GEE MACHINE. See tl
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S MACHINES.
applies to the Genuine Mac
GO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—J
Cast inn imitations. On!
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
INGER S SEWING MACH
ments with the Singer
8
8
.INGER’S . SEWING MA
cent, discount for cash, or on
8
YDNEY—From TURNE3
GEOEQB STEEET. opposit
8
INGER’S SEWING MaGH
but 160 FIEST PE
Anstr[?]li[?]n Eleven v. Combined Eleven of
New South Wales and Victoria.
This remarkable match, in which were pitted
against each other the best men that Australia
can produce (if we except Allan, the “ bowler of a
century,”) resulted, after a four days’ contest, in
an easy victory for the Combined Eleven, by 246
runs. It will be remembered that the Australians
defeated easily a Combined Eleven in Melbourne
about a month ago, but as the bad light which
E revails on the Melbourne ground for an hour
efore sundown militated most materially against
the prospects of the Combined Eleven in both
innings, the result of that match cannot be de-
pended upon as a criterion of the respective
powers of the teams. In this match, it must be
admitted that circumstances favoured the victors,
but not so materially as to affect the ultima! e
issue of the contest. The fielding of the Austra-
lians, which has been upheld in England as their
strongest point, was much inferior to that of their
opponents; the bowling was ineffectual against the
strong batting element of the Combined Eleven ;
and the batting, if we except that of Murdoch,
Blackham, and A. Banner man, was greatly below
expectation. On the other hand, the fielding of
the Combined Eleven was almost perfect —Elliott
vicing with the redoubtable Blackham in keeping
the wickets, and Garrett, Edwards, Horan, Massie,
and Midwinter doing wonders in that department
of the game. Evans bowled up to his usual form,
but the honours of the match fell to McShane,
who succeded, in the first innings, in securing two
wickets for 11 runs, and in the second innings,
nine of the Australians’ wickets succumbed to
him. The batting of the Combined Eleven was
excellent; Massie knocked the bowling all over
the field in both innings, Charles Bannerman
played an innings of grand cricket for 64 runs,
and in the second innings the Australians’ bowling
was completely collared, 92 runs having been
scored off Spofforth without a wicket being
credited to him. The attendance was moderate
on the first day, but on Saturday it reached fully
to the number of 10,000, and on Monday the
ground was well patronised. On Tuesday the at-
tendance was not so good, the weather and the
falling-off of interest in the one-sided match no
doubt being the cause. The pavilion on each day
was well patronised by the lovers of cricket, who
were all enthusiastic in their opinions as to the
display cf cricket. The grand stand was well
patronised by the fair sex, but much comment
was made as to the absence of a band, whose en-
livening strains have hitherto proved so attractive,
especially to those who attend the ground more
for a day’s outing than for the interest felt in the
result of the match. The arrangements otherwise
were complete in every respect. The wickets,
under the care of Ned Gregory, proved superb,
and Messrs. Gibson, Beal, and Sheridan were
especially attentive to the requirements of visitors.
Following is a resume of scores and bowlers’
analyses:—
Combined Eleven.—First Innings.
C. Bannerman, c Alexander, b Spofforth 64
H. H. Massie, b Spofforth 80
T. Horan, c Blackham, b Alexander 5
W. Midwinter, b Alexander 0
E. Evans, c Blackham, b Boyle 4
M'Shane, b Boyle 11
D. Gregory, b Boyle 15
J. Edwards, stumped Blackham, b Boyle 0
T. W. Garrett, stumped Blackham b Boyle ... 13
E. Elliott, b Spofforth 1
W. H. Cooper, not out 0
Byes 4
Total 197
Second Innings.
Massie, b Alexander 50
C. Bannerman, b Boyle 11
T. Horan, b Alexander 49
E. Evans, c and b Boyle 9
T. W. Garrett, b Alexander 34
W. Midwinter, c and b Alexander 45
M'Shane, st Blackham, b Palmer 22
J. Edwards, st Blackham, b Alexander 17
D. W. Gregory, c Murdoch, b Alexander 25
E. Elliott, not out 13
W. H. Cooper, c Murdoch, b Boyle 5
Byes 4, leg-byes 5 9
289
Grand total 486
Australian Eleven.—First Innings.
F. E. Spofforth, b Midwinter 3
A. C. Bannerman, b Midwinter 21
W. L. Murdoch, b Evans 65
P. M'Donnell, c and b Midwinter 0
J. Slight, b Evans 1
T. U. Groube, c Gregory, b Evans 7
J. M. Blackham, b M'Shane 36
A. H. Jarvis, b Evans 11
H. F. Boyle, c Elliott, b M'Shane 0
G. E. Palmer, e Elliott, b Evans 1
O. Alexander, not out 6
Byes 4
Total 155
Second Innings.
A. Bannerman, c Elliott, b M'Shane 2
F. E. Spofforth, c Massie, b M‘Shane 1
T. A. Groube, c Garrett, b M'Shane 0
J. Slight, b M'Shane 4
W. L. Murdoch, not out 31
P. S. M'Donnell, c andb Evans 18
J. M. Blackham, o Evans, b M'Shane 2
A. H. Jarvis, b M'Shane 8
G. Alexander, c Gregory, b M'Shane 4
H. F. Boyle, b M'Shane 6
O. E. Palmer, c Gregory, b M'Shane 0
Byes 9
Total 85
Grand Total 240
A petrified oat has been discovered at Mengate,
during the course of some repairs.
Mr. Frank Underwood has just opened, at
Waverley, the finest billiard parlor in the Australian
colonies.
Messrs. Treseder Bros, have got out a very use-
ful little work, entitled “The Garden." Information
for all the year round.
Mr. Wigzell, the well-known pemqwier of
Oxford-street, has imported from America kalf-a-dosen
of Archer’s adjustable barber’s chairs. Shaving is
thus reduced—in Oxford-street, at least, to one of the
exact sciences. It is now even easier for a man to be
clipped and shaved at Wigzell’s than for a perker to bo
killed, scraped, cut up and converted into bacon by a
Chicago pig-slaughtering machine.


Department of Mi
Sydney, 25tl
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PC
LEASES.
OTICE is hereby given
Lessees execute and ta!
N'
undermentioned Gold-mininin
thirty days from this date, th
void.
Hunter and Macleay Mm
No., 425; A. Sime and another;
Eight-hand branch, Back Creek,
2 acres; Application No., 469.
No., 427; Carl Scott and others;
Centennial Beef, parish of Bindera
No., 552.
No., 428; W. M'Kay and others;
Anderson Reef, parish of Bindera;
No., 553.
No., 430; Samuel Wright and c
447 GL; Morning Star Reef, parish
Application No., 192.
No., 431; John Read and and ai
433 on; County of Gloucester, pa:
Application No., 219.
No., 432; James Dowie and oi
445 gl ; Homeward Bound Reef, pa
Application No., 226.
No., 433; John Thompson and a
523 gl ; County of Gloucester, par
Application No., 257.
No., 434; Isaac Mallard and o
531 gl ; Amelia Reef, parish of Bi
tionNo., 262.
No., 435; James Birrell, sen., !
No , 260 gl ; Queen of Beauty Bee
sa. ; Application No., 270.
No., 438; W. Scott and others ;
No. 1 S. W. Mint Reef, parish of !
cation No., 309.
No., 439; W. H. Buckley and <
436 gl ; County of Gloucester, pai
Application No., 310.
No., 443; C. M'lntyre and ot
458 gl ; County of Gloucester, pai
Application No.. 531.
No., 447; J. Buchanan and am
418 gl ; County of Gloucester, par
Application No., 198.
No., 449; J. Bryant and others;
No. 2 E. Mountaineer Reef, pari
Application No., 282.
No., 450; J. Q. Jackson and an
2 gl ; Golden Crown Reef, parish i
plication No., 302.
No., 451; D. W. Jackson and o
gl 1; Golden Crown Reef, parish c
plication No., 303.
No., 452; D. W, Jackson and <
gl 4; County of Gloucester, pari
Application No., 304.
No., 53; James Landers and oi
gl 21; No. 1 W. Mountain Hero Re<
3a.; Application No., 315.
No., 454; Augustus Hooke and c
gl 23 ; No. 1 E. Mountain Hero Eee
3a.; Application No., 317.
No., 455; J. G. Jackson and o
gl15; County of Gloucester, par
Application No., 318.
No., 456; J. G. Jackson and o
gl 16; County of Gloucester, pa;
Application No., 319.
No., 457; W. C. Lindsay and oth(
13; County of Gloucester, parish o
plication No., 320.
No., 458; J. G. Jackson and oth
12; County of Gloucester, parish o
plication N0.,321.
No , 459; D. W. Jackson and oth
14; County of Gloucester, parish c
plication No., 322.
No., 460; George Irwin and others
No. 2 W. Mountain Hero Reef, pai
Application No., 324.
No., 461; W. J. Harris and others
No. 1 N. Golden Eagle Reef, pari
Application No., 326.
No., 462; John Laanders and oi
gl 10; No. 1. S. Golden Eagle Reef
3n. ■ Annlicti™ TJV, 307
fJIHE NEW DAVIS SEV
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST a
for Sewing Machines,
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
over ah competits
THE DAVIS is the only machi:
ABOVE THE WORK which advt
highly estimated. Samples and c
parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTERMANN 1
Sole Agents,
674 George-streel
OVERNMENT
OVERLAND JOURNEY TO
MELBOURNE INTEENATIOj
SPECIAL CHEAP RATES FO
BERING NOT LESS
NOTICE is hereby given that
visiting the Melbourne Exhibitio
when travelling in parties of 40, a
rates
First Class (including Return)
Second ditto, ditto
The Tickets will be issued betwf
and the 25th April, 1881, and will b
for thirty days.
Purchasers of these Tickets will
by the day Passenger Train, leavin
on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fr:
the Passenger Train leaving Albu
days, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
NOTE. —These tickets will no
THURSDAY, the 14th, and MON
April, inclusive.
CHAS. A. (
Commisi
Department of Public Works, E
Sydney, 18th February, 1881.
M P S 0 N AK
DENISON HOI
358, 360, 363, Georg<
OPENING NEW C
for
WINTER SEAS
EVERY DAY DURING T
FIRST GENERAL
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESS
FOE THE WINTER
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE CAM]
DOVER HOMESPUN INDE
ELASTIC BIEGE ANG<
KASGHER CASHMERE JERS
STOCKINGETTE VALI
AND A LARGE ASSORTMI
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—
cases of very
EEY, sometl
handsome, dix
houses in Lorn
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAI
SILK, Rich V
to 24 inch wide
4s 6d, 5s 6d, ft
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES.
SILKS, in a va
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, I
6s lid, 7s fti.
worn, and sti
for wear, and I
BLACK VELVI
NAUCUNIUM.i
every yard sta
BLACK SATIN
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d,
are light and s
under usual
SILK VELVI
every shade o
and Brocaded
Floral Designs
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DBPAR
ADrvr-prt ~
NO. 1 DAK LINO ST
HARBOUR STRE
ILLUSTRATED PRICE LI
The wondeeful
SEWING MACHINES, witl
tacking (or basting), without the u
without any pulling or pushing of
very fine double seams or fells; wil
braid, make their own braid, bind, i
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, an
embroider curtains or antimacassaj
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at onr offices
trades can be supplied. They are si
in running, strong, handsome, ai
machine may be hail on trial, ENT
CHARGE. Instruction at YOU
free. Every WERT HEIM Machii
KEPT IN REPAIR and workir
YEARS from the date of purchase
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO :
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your i
and inspection FREE OF CHAR 6
samples by post. Country agei
liberal terms. BEALE and CC
street, near Market-street, and <
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastl
Bathurst. No matter in what par
live, we will supply you with
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM
INTEREST.
IMPROVED HOME
LOCK STICH
SEWING MAC
H.L.ESTR
AERONA
EA N D BALLOO
OUTER DOiVU
(By kind permission of Sir Henr
COMPLIMENTARY
TO
H. L’ESTRATS
THE AUSTRALIAN 3
ON MONDAY EVENING,
(Weather permitl
BRILLIANT ILLUMINATIONS
EFFECTS OP THE ELEC
(By kind permission of E. C.
Telegraph Depart a
Will be used during the Infli
N.B. —A committee of gentleme
their services to ensure perfect
deavour to make this the most si
made in Australia.
Music by several I
Admission, Is. Children
OOK O U
BAILY & HORTON’S W
ABO U R B
FURNITURE SHOW
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 I
Established a.d. :
A. MOORE and CO. invite the
furnishing, to the large and vai
descriptions of Furniture they ha
premises. The whole of the stocl
—prices considerably reduced—ai
that Furniture, Carpets, Househf
be purchased at the LABOUR B
rate than at any other house in th
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt
Any description of Furniture ma
Experienced packers on the pren
ALEXANDER MOORE
Manufacturers and In


Miscellaneous
QLIFFORD, LOYE
TE IMPORTER
EASTERN AND COM
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments,
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Meda
CHUTN1ES —Indian Priz«
PRESERVES—Indian Pri
COPFEE —Plantation No.
Do. „ Pea
Do. „ Nos
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and Pe
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Bla
i
—
OFFICES:—348 GEORGI
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BI
T O H N D
impoet.be op
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswr
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric I
Butchers’ Brine Pr
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &(
119 LIYEEPOOL STREET,
PITT
BEAUTIFUL
ALLWOOL
MARTIN A RAIN,
3®'
SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
Single-farrow Ploughs, We have the largest assortment ol
requirements of every district. Farmers, write US for information, W
kornbys —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
HOWARD'S New Pattern Ploughs, just brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
RANS@®
R1TCRI1
and 3. Tbi
We invite <
infor
harrows—zn
We recommend BOV&BI
have other makes, some of wl
■•want's ,
Zissas. >Width 8
„ _ s j Weight J
Miscellant
T3EISC0E, DEYS1
397 George S
76, 78, 145, 147 Yo
33 Pitt Sti
IRONMONGERS, IEONM
IMPORTS
Invite attention to their exte
which besides being the largest
varied; and comprises all the la
Engines Engineers’ Materia
Agricultural Implements, 1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
C each-builders’ Material,
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lai
Founders’ Material, Pig Iro
Builders’ Ironmongery, Ch£
Brass Foundry, Locks,!
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire,
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled
And
GENERAL IRONI
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
H E B * L E
416 GEORGE S'
MERICAN MACH
H.
P. GREGORY
N*. 11, PITT-S1
Importers *f all Bee
M
C
H I
Have for Sa
ay an
Machinery—Sydney Exhibil
Blake’s Patent Special Steam P
Rubber and Leather Belting, Ra
tucks packing round and sqi
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —1
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery C
quality guaranteed, &c., <kc
Send for Circulars
KING STREET !
TAILOR
»
m
\/AV.
Si
■M
PFR»
Adv
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
A L A E G E VAEIETY IN STOCK.
J
8HEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IEEIQATIN(
Engines and Boilers of all siz
Jack Crabs, Cranks, Bellows, Po
IN STOCK.
EYES’ PERFECT P U E. I 3
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest An;
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for house
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, i
for my throat I could not desire anything more effectiv
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sy(
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newtoi
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney :—My child had sore eyes for 2\
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruil
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-i
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sy
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, o PI
PRACTICAL EAIBCUi
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR - WORKER, STAGE A
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings o
ggjf Note the address— Oxford-street, oppo
O
CD
66
'flliiiiEFiiags
PRIZE
o
CO
Against the world
E. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
These goods a
fresh, wholeson
and genuine. T
Exhibition Judg(
Eeport says:—
