

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s.—No. 61.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, MARCH 26, 1881.
Price —3d.
(% bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 26, 1881.
A Police Apocalypse.
Soubces of revelation are now-a-days abundant
in matters social, religious, and political; but,
unfortunately for the sources, nobody believes in
the healing properties of the waters. Even when
an Inspector-General of Police performs his annual
perfunctory duty of reporting to the head of his
Department on the criminal state of the country,
anybody with an analytical eye can at half a
glance see that he is only indulging in routine,
simply doing his duty (or dootyj without the least
regard to the consequences that may follow from
his annual homily. He is not to be blamed.
Poor Mr. Fosbeet, of Phillip-street, is rather to
be pitied than reprimanded. Not that there is
anything in him—intellectually or physically—that
would challenge an enlightened sympathy. He is
the creature of circumstances ; he has from his
official infancy been swaddled in parchment bound
with red-tape; he has evidently no mind of his
own, even to rightly advise his “superiors,” but,
like a marionette, he executes their commands
with that thorough consecration of self to the
order of his political wire-pullers which would
have made Mm—had circumstances led him to
enter the sacred confraternity of Jesuits —at h ast
a Provincial of the Order. Yes, there is a good
Jesuit Magister lost in Mr. Fosbeet, and we of
New South Wales regret the accident of his having
lost his vocation so much that we would even now
willingly forego all his acquired super-vigilance if
he would join the Society. We can ill spare him
under our present artificial system ; but, as there
is probably no other man in the Force who could
play his part it might induce the author-
ities —especially Sir He net Paekes to re-
view the system and see whether peace and
order could not be sustained and maintained under
a police system less centralised than that which
now indirectly abets crime. One of the accursed
inheritances bequeathed us by that vile political
conspiracy called “ Cowperism,” is our Police
system. It is a centralization, infamous in
its inception, because it was established —a fact
now historically proved—to provide for the de-
pendents of the Cowpee faction, and it threw an
amount of patronage into the hands, or claws, of
any harpy Minister —after Cowpee ceased to be—
who might make way to the front, which cannot
be estimated till the whole story of the fraud is
disclosed. These conclusions —absolute, logical,
and irritating, with their data at our fingers’ ends
—cannot be gainsaid. We defy the last luminary
of the whole broken-down ranks of the “ spolia-
tors” to gainsay them. But, at the same time, it
is hardly needful to say that a solitary barb of our
criticism is not aimed at the Police Force as a body.
As to the rank and file —the non-commissioned and
some of the commissioned officers of that force —
we do not believe a more effective body of men
could be found in any part of the world. They
are not to blame—or be blamed, whichever is the
right phrase—for the present state of lawlessness,
but the system under which they act deserves the
severest condemnation of the country. We had
at first thought, in justice to Mr. Inspector-
General Fosbeet, to give extracts from the
several reports of his lieutenants in north, south,
west, and west by north ; but on com-
paring these several documents we found that
they had such a common origin—such a family
likeness —that they were worthless for the purposes
of criticism. If the General of the Order had
issued an outline of what was expected to be sent
in to Head Quarters, it would be thought that
some variety in expression would be infused into
the mode of putting it No ; every officer seems
to have kept rigidly within the lines of red tape ;
they all state that crime is on the decrease, but still
they want more constabulary assistance to put
down special infractions of the law; larrikinism is
not more accentuated than it was last year,
although we get hints that many of that year’s
larrikins are this year’s burglars, prowling thieves,
or gaol-birds. Sr. Paul was quite right in assert-
ing that this world’s wisdom is folly—and that,
too, in the grand days of Roman Imperialism—
but it is a deeper folly in New South Wales, now
and for many years to come, that we are edu-
cating the lawless by not reprehending them —that
we are practically encouraging vice by not re-
straining its criminal beginnings. Grime is on the
increase throughout the colony—especially larri-
kinism and arson—according to the formal (ex-
ceedingly formal and rose-scented) reports of Mr.
Inspector Fosbebv’s lieutenants. Why should
not both be met at once—.-ha’ply, decisively, and
promptly? It is no part of our duty to suggest
how the twin serpents could be strangled without
much fuss or much expense. Break up the present
system of policej centralization, and make every
large district responsible for the crime committed
within its boundaries; let perquisites (really valu-
able) be given to the District Police Force which
keeps down disorder; let the Magistrates and
yeomanry of the country be placed in a position
to manage and maintain affairs within their own
boundaries, without reference to old-world inanities
commonly called traditions —of shrievalties,
parish-officers, and the whole humdrum retinue of
peace-preservers; and we shall soon obtain a fair
amount of order at a fair expenditure. As to
cattle-stealing, with its corollaries of “ lifting,”
“faking,” “smudging.” and “slaughtering,” we
shall give our opinion hereafter. Just to glance
at (we have not at present time to examine) the
jeremiad of the police officers’ reports about larri-
kinism, we have a short, sharp, and speedy remedy
for that form of offence. We have heard from days
of yore that some devils cannot be exorcised
without “ fasting and prayer.’ ” As the graceless
ruffians, yclept larrikins, cannot be induced
to pray, we should compel them t. e ~ I.
Three days’ solitary confinement on bread and
water, without distinction of persons, would
break down the wolfish spirit of the lowest re-
creant that prowls about Sussex-street on Sunday
morning, and impregnates the air with the double
reek of his filthy tobacco and his filthier blas-
phemy. The Inspectoe-Geneeal’s report
is perfectly satisfactory, inasmuch as it is a
revelation—the very Apocalypse of our heading
—that under the present system nothing can
effectively be done to put down notorious infrac-
tions of the law.
Mr. J. Brunton Stephens.
Eeadees of Dickens will recollect how, in Martin
Chuzzlewit, the great novelist satirized the ten-
dency of people living outside the great world of
action and of competition to magnify the qualities
ot local celebrities. In Australia, not less than
in America, instances of this disposition are of
constant occurrence. Were implicit deference
paid to the eulogies which accompany presenta-
tions or are worked into addresses and obituary
notices, it might be supposed that this continent
teemed with individuals whose transcendant
merits or abilities would keep the trumpet of fame
constantly sounding for all time to come, and cause
the allegorical performer herself to injure her con-
stitution. A satirist like Dickens we imagine might
not unfairly pretend that all our geese are swans.
Every day adulatory notices appear in one or
other of the ephemeral prints, hoisting into notice
some new and strange specimen of “ one of the
most remarkable men in our country, sir.” A
man can scarcely preside at a tea-meeting and
deliver himself of some profound remarks on the
moral influence of crumpets, without some ad-
miring disciple arising to express an opinion that
the speaker combines the genius of Plato with the
oratorical gifts of Cicero and the piety of Heber.
And all such adulatory nonsense is inevitably re-
produced next morning in some newspaper or
other without a word of wholesome corrective.
There is danger that real merit and real talent
..... we lost sight of and drowned in a turbid tide
of flatulent and indiscriminating laudation.
Appreciation of these facts does not for
a moment deter us from remarking that
the man whose portrait we present in this
issue is “ one of the most remarkable men in the
country.” J. Brunton Stephens stands upon a
pedestal which no other man in Australia can pre-
tend to be able to occupy—a pedestal elevated
sufficiently to make him visible even were he re-
moved to the thronged highways of the old world.
Australia has not been fecund in the production
of poets. Bullocks have been more in its line.
Still, our continent has one or two of the rarer
mammalia, and of these few Brunton Stephens is
one, and not the least. Mr. Stephens is not native
born. Borrowstounness, in Linlithgowshire, Scot-
land, is his birthplace, and he had already attained
legal majority when, in 1866, he landed in Queens-
land. But his Scottish birth cannot be adduced
as argument against Australia claiming him as a
poet of her own. Mr. Stephens is distinctively an
Australian poet—or, to place the claims of Aus-
tralia upon the most strictly limited foundation,
it may be said that Brunton Stephens has written
a sufficient proportion of his poems in a spirit
inseparably bound up with colonial surroundings,
to justify appropriating him as Australian. His
magnum opus —which is, as it happens, the one
least known by local readers—“ Convict Once,”
is bathed in an atmosphere of Australian exis-
tence. It is a pastoral romance which, supposing
there were no Australia and no Australians, could
never have been conceived. It is not alone that
the mere setting—the scenery —belongs distinc-
tively to the bush; the people, the move-
ments of their souls, their modes of thought,
as wrought out in this exquisite poem are Aus-
tralian only. Wipe out Australians and the poem
is resolved into a paradox. That “ Convict Once ”
is so little known in the colonies —few except the
little handful who seek for all that is worthy in Aus-
tralian literature being acquainted with its beauties
—may beprobably ascribed to the circumstance that
the poem was not, as were most of Mr. Stephens'
subsequent or minor pieces, published in any of
the colonial weeklies. It was undertaken by
Macmillan and Co., the eminent London pub-
lishers, and placed before the reading world
without attempt at puff preliminary. From the
critics it received immediately a welcome appro-
priate to its merits. The mingled music and
passion, elegance and fierceness of the poetry,
the intrinsic interest of the romance merely re-
garded as a story, and the remarkable analytic
insight into the workings of the human heart
which the work embodied and displayed, were all
fully and cordially recognised. An edition has,
we believe, been recently published in Brisbane,
and all who love true poetry will be able to gratify
their tastes without having to wait for the course
of mails to and from England. But it is not only
in the region of sentiment and passion that
Brunton Stephens has made his mark. Hia
faculties are many-sided. “ The Godolphin
Arabian, the Story of a Horse,” is another
emanation from his brain, but from quite a
different convolution to that which conceived the
mingled passion and pathos of . “ Convict Once.”
“ The Godolphin Arabian ” is framed in the same
measure and couched in the same serio-whimsical
vein as Byron’s Beppo, and while the smoothness
of the rhythm charms the ear, the odd surprises
of the rhyme, and the quaint humour of the nar-
rative equally engage the attention and tickle the
midriff of the reader. But it is by hia fugitive
pieces that Brunton Stephens is most generally
known. These have appeared from time to time
in the columns of the Australasian — to which
journal may be ascribed the honour of first intro-
ducing the poet to his fellow-colonists—and in the
Queenslander and other Australian periodicals.
It is only the other day that we reprinted the
obituary verses on “Big Ben,” an alligator who
Bid his level best
To feed, and all the rest
He took for granted.
We take it for granted that everyone is familiar
with “My Chinee Cook,” “ The Black Gin,”
“ The Headless Trooper,” and some others of the
most obviously popular of Brunton Stephens’ bits.
If there be any among our readers so unlucky as
not yet to have chuckled over these crackling
conceits, the sooner they send for a copy of
Brunton Stephens’ Miscellaneous Poems the
better. In that volume they will find an epitome
of the poet’s highly complex mind. In one page
ho is rippling with fun, tossing up the airiest of
whimsies set to melodies, always tuneful and
rhythmic, of his own ; iathe next he is lifting the
hem of the curtain which veils the Infinite, and
loading his reader in a trance of beatific sound
among the mystic mazes of metaphysical specula-
tion ; or anon he is hymning under the impulses
of a moral sensibility which offers an extra-
ordinary contrast to the jocularities of the
humorous pieces. The fact that we have drifted
from biography into criticism is due simply
to our feeling that the man is, in this instance,
inseparable from his works, and no equally ade-
quate mode of conveying what sort of person the
poet is, suggests itself. We have the fancy that
anyone reading Brunton Stephens’ works could
evolve the man himself —could perceive the deli-
cate organization pulsing responsive to every
variation of temperature, physical or psychical.
Brunton Stephens has as many friends as
he has acquaintances. At the Johnsonian—the
literary club of Brisbane—his anpearance is
hailed with neverfailing delight, his fellowship
appreciated as an honor. Perfectly unaffected
always, gay with the meny, wise with the
serious, always adjusted to the pitch of hia
companion’s mind by a sort of automatic delicacy
of peroep’ion, no wonder he is esteemed. Hia
conversation is full of a quaint, dry humour,
extremely attractive But it is only when among
intimates that the petals of his mind expand. The
sensitiveness of the poetic organisation shows
itself in a certain shrinking from strangers or
from any appearance of being “ trotted out.” Mr.
Stephens did some of his best work while tutor m
the family of Captain Sh-rwood, an English
gentleman who bought a station on the head
of the Richmond, and settled there with hia
family—a gentleman, luckily, fully capable of
appreciating the qualities of his children’s tutor,
and who merged the employer in the friend and
MR J. BRUNTON STEPHENS.


In a recent issue we published, in perfectly
good faith, a paragraph embodying a copy of a
letter received by ns on the 3rd or 4th current, and
bearing the signature “ Demosthenes ” (we pur-
posely omit the surname), by which appellation, a
certain professional gentleman alleges, we had pre-
viously alluded to him in these columns. _ It will be
remembered that the writer of the letter in question
“congratulated us on our luck" in the recent libel
action, gave us some very salutarv advice, and hoped
that he’d see us “sit down and shake hands with the
Evening News, and keep quiet.” We. at the time of
the letter’s receipt, were not in any way acquainted
with the gentleman who now complains of its insertion,
nor did we know his handwriting; and as he informs
us that the epistle, which purported to date from
his private residence, was a forgery, we must express
our regret at having published it. At the same time,
we need hardly remark that anyone acquainted with
the gentlemen in question could not possibly have
credited him with the deliberate production of so
comically crude an example of English. As a matter of
fact, the joke was intended te be at our own expense.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Apv.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zea and. Pro-
ceedings will be taken against person copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.— Adv.
admirer. When this trusty friend broke up his
establishment and returned to England, Mr.
Stephens was already too greatly appreciated by
the Queenslanders to have to go a-begging for a
Eost. A place was at once found him as a
ead-masterof a Government schoolat Stanthorpe,
and he was, not long after, removed to the
immediate neighbourhood of the capital to
a larger school ; the duties of which he
continues to discharge to this day with
the conscientious care which is part of
his character. The poetic temperament is seldom
without a flaw. The sweetest lutes have a rift.
But in Brunton Stephens’ disposition there is
nothing which ever male a frisnd other than
inclined to be more truly a friend than ever. The
soul of henor, conscientious to a chivalrous point,
Brunton Stephens is iu all things— at times, alas !
a poet.
SOCIAL
Dr. Lewis, surgeon of H.M.S. Cormorant, has
gone to Christchurch, N.Z., to be married.
Mr. Frank Bsnnett has purchased The Furze,
Rose Bay, the late residence of Mr. Roberts.
One of the most handsome and fashionable ladies
of Lochinvar is the best eque-trienne in the district.
To-day (Saturday) a Mudgee heiress will be
married at St. James’s, to a gentleman recently from
England.
All tho leading houses, Messrs. D. Jones and
Co., Farmer and Co , P lane® and Sbaw, are busy with
orders for the fancy dress ball at the Garden Palace on
the sth April.
The estimable daughter of a wealthy J.P. in the
Paterson district has been won by the eloquence of an
amateur Sydney debater.
The assembly ball, which was to have been held
at Tumut on the occasion of the annual races, fell
through owing to the previous engagement of all the
local halls.
An officer of marines, who was very popular in
Tasmania, is engaged to he married to a young lady
who was certainly the bel'e o' Hobart this season. The
fiancee is rich, and comes from Bothwell.
There was much weeping and wailing on the
Hobart wharf when H.M.S. Wolverene weighed anchor
the other day. The oulv consolation which the southern
maidens have is that there’ll be a new lot round next
year.
Writes a correspondent:—“ There are many
pretty girls at Glebe Point, hut • no one comes to marry
them—no one comes to woo.' A societv f>r the encou-
ragement of matrimony was established the other day
at Tamworth, and at its first meeting two engagements
took place. Were a similar society started at Glebe
Point, there is no knowing what might be the result "
A brilliant ball was given on Tuesday evening,
by Mr. and Mrs. Montague Levey, at. their residence,
Wynyard-sqnare, to celebrate the wed.ting of their
daughter, Mrs. Lewis Hirt. Tbe guests began to
arrive at nine o’clock, an I at ton a company of abont
100 bad assembled in tbe charmings iloon. Some of the
dresses wore exceedingly pretty. F air young ladies in
their bridal dresses ; eight bridesmaids in their wedding
toilettes; a Potts’ Point ladv in black satin and roses;
a Macquarie-strcetl idy in white silk : and several young
ladies most tastefully attired in white and pink. The
belle was a Darling Point ladv, who appeared in cream
noie do Lyon with cinliual trimmings. The arrange-
ments made by the ho- teas were most perfect, and the
ball was a complete success.
A long description is given in the English
papers of the marriage of M. Lsopold de Rothschild and
Malle. Marie Perugia which is said to be the first
Jewish ceremony ever attended bv the Prince of Wales.
For a week previous to the w«vlding, Messrs Veitch re-
fused to supply any other customers, in order to have
sufficient flowers for the decorations requisite for this
occasion, the entrance to the synagogue being adorned
with them, and the steps up to the ark lined with arum
lilies, white azaleas, camelias, and the vivid crimson
Poinsettia puloherrima As the bride passed up the
aisle, blossoms of tbe former pure hue were scattered
before her by ladies seated in the front pews. The
orange flowers worn on her dress and in her hair had
been sent from the south of France. The Julith, or
“ scarf of prayer,” was of silk, with a blue thread woven
into the border, and had the bridegroom’s initials
joined by a trne-lover’s-knot worked in gold upon it.
This scarf is invariably presented by the bride, and in
very strict Jewish families is accompanied by a shroud ;
the meaning of the latter gift and tbe breaking of the
glass towards the close of the service being, it is
thought, the same —that of reminding the recipient
that sorrow or death might be his portion, even in the
hoar of his greatest joy and happiness.
The advantages of a marriage by Mr. E. Grant
Ward, tho able and courteous Registrar-General of
New South Wales, are entirely O'er-estimated. The
only point gained is lime. A clergyman usually takes
from half to three-quart, rs of an hour to tie the knot,
whereas Mr. Ward, with tho odd formality demanded
by Government, will bind them together ‘* till divorce
or death doth part” in from three to five minutes.
Besides, the affair is of so matter-of-fact a character
that not even a smile illumes the faces of the diligent
Civil servants under the Registrar-General’s control.
Yesterday, a Bulletin nan happened to be about when
the Registrar-General was called upon to officiate. The
only conditions asked on behalf of the Government
were that the lady resided in his district, and that the
couple objected to be married bv a clergyman (this, we
presume, to protect “ the trade"). Some bridegrooms
bring a ring, but this “ formality" is outside the
Government regulations, and consequently the bride-
groom may or may not slip the time-honored band of
gold on to the'bride's finger. The exact form of the
official marriage contract is as follows: —** I, Thomas
Williams, of Sydney, gentleman, do hereby declare, in
the presence of E. Grant Ward. Registrar-General, that
I take Mary Edwards, »f Sydnev, gentlewoman, to be
my lawful wife. And I, the said Marv Edwards, do
declare that I take the said Thomas Williams to be my
lawful husband.—(Signature)." Fee, £l, which even
Mr. Ward does not get, for it goes to the Colonial
Treasurer.
Our artist gives on page 4 a sketch of one
of the dresses worn at the ball given at the house
of one of our leading citizens a few evenings since.
The dress, which w.is worn bv a ladv. who, it is said,
will make her next appearance in a bridal costume, was
of ivory and cardinal, the top of which was brocatelle,
and was richly trimmed with Spanish lace; it was draped
high on the left side, over a skirt of honey-combed
cardinal satin, ornamented with fans and puffings of
ivory-colored foulard merveillenx. The headdress was
of Spanish lace with a wreath of shaded cardinal
chenille. The costume was fabricated at Messrs.
Thompson and Giles' establishment.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Nihilists arrested in Paris.
Sultan of Turkey refuses to cede Epirus to the
Greeks.
Negotiations for peace at the Transvaal pro-
gressing.
Another mine discovered under the palace of
Russian Czar.
The obsequies of the Czar came off with much
pomp and ceremony.
Nihilist manifesto, expressing exultation at the
death of the Czar, issued at St. Petersburg.
Rousakoff, the Russian assassin, has given the
names of his accomplices, many of whom have been
arrested.
Mr. John Bright greatly influenced the British
Cabinet in the matter of a peace with the Boers in the
Transvaal,
Bradiangh has been disqualified by the English
law courts, and has therefore been ousted from his seat
in Parliament.
At Aldershot, on St. Patrick’s Day, the Irish
soldiers quarrelled. A riot ensued, which, however,
was quickly suppressed.
French loan for .£40,000,000, for public works
purposes, is about to be placed on the European market.
Price of issue, 30 francs gold.
The system of competitive examinations, within
certain limits, is to be revived for cadetships reserved
for youths belonging to the Australasian colonies.
Attempt made to blow up the Mansion House,
opposite the Royal Exchange, London. A lighted fuse
was attached to a box containing 401 b. of powder. The
discovery was made in time to avert an explosion.
The Czar thanks the British Parliament for
their votes of condolence, and has issued a circular, in
which he foreshadows a policy of peace. The principal
feature of the new policy will be the development of
national enterprise within the Russian dominions.
Action for libel commenced in the Court of
Queen’s Bench, London, against Mr Labonchere, editor
of Truth. Plaintiffs are Sir Hardinge Giffard, M.P.,
and Sir John Holker, M.P. Sir Wilfred Lawson, one of
the witnesses, and his examination by Mr. Labonchere,
was very amusing. Judge Coleridge’s remarks favour
the defendant.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Edwin Browne leaves per Ericson this (Saturday)
morning, for San Francisco.
Mr. Edward Lloyd-Lewis, the well-known illu-
sionist, appears at Lithgow to-night (Thursday).
Mr. and Mrs. Hewett (“Musettes ”) are about
to visit Brisbane, Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
The Wheeler Comedy Company occupy the
boards at the Hobart Theatre, and are doing good
business, while Stacey, at the Tasmanian Hall, con-
tinues to unroll “ canvas with pictures on ” to thin
houses.
Professor Anderson arrived in Sydney on the
14th instant, and will open at the School of Arts on
Saturday evening, for a short season. The Professor is
a nephew of the famous “Wizard of the North" who
visited these colonies some twenty years ago. His fish-
ring and money feats are said to be most surprising.
Mr. Anderson gives some interesting “ spiritualistic "
performances. Gifts are distributed at the entertain-
ment.
M. Kowalski will shortly produce, at the Garden
Palace, the music of an opera of his own composition,
entitled “ Vercingetorix " and founded on an incident
in the life of a Gallic chief of that name who, finding all
resistance unavailing, surrendered to the Romans, and
was taken to Rome, and beheaded whenCsesar made his
triumphal entry into the Eternal City. The talented
composer has requested the co-operation of the musical
amateurs of the city, and his invitation will no doubt
meet with a ready response. The poetry to accompany
the music was written by Mons. G. Mainiel, of Paris.
The opera has never before been submitted to public
criticism.
One of the principal attractions of “ The Pirates”
is a charming little girl, about six years of age, who is
attached to the female contingent of the Major-General.
This child is exceedingly beautiful, and conducts her-
self with an amount of aplomb which would do credit to
an adult performer. In reference to this histrionic
ounce, we made a carious mistake in Thb Bulletin of
last week. This little person played Hebe in “ Pin-
afore,” and being anxious to bestow a line upon her
and also upon Miss Fanny Liddiard, the pars, somehow
got a little mixed. We intimated that Miss Liddiard
was the daughter of Signor Bartolomeotti,—and we
understand that Signora Barto. (who is a young and
attractive chorus singer) has had a piece of road-metal
tied up in her pocket-handkerchief ever since. We trust
we have made things right now, anyway, and that
slaughter won’t ensue. Our conscience is pretty clear
and all that, —still we own we would like to live just a
little bit longer.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Typhoid at Temora.
The new rush to the Mount Poole digginm.
continues. 8 “
Adelaide Assembly dissolved. Elections Btb
and 11th April.
Boys are taught trades at the Melbourne C of
E. Grammar School. ‘ 1
Excitement at Temora sinee Yankee Charlie
found the big nugget.
Ten thousand persons travelled by the Band
wick trams last Sunday.
Great scarcity of water at Mount Browne—
people daily succumbing to thirst.
Replies to letters sent to Europe per Orient line
have been received in 83 days from time of posting
here. *
Messrs. P. N. Russell and Co. have sold the site
of their former workshops. Darling Harbour for
£50,000.
William Brown, convicted of a capital offence on
his daughter, is to be executed at Darlinghurst next
Tuesday.
A quantity of English fish was brought out in
the freezing-room of the steamship Orient., and has
been forwarded to the Melbourne Club.
24,454 tons of coal were exported from Newcastle
last week. The hydraulic cranes, owing to an accident,
were unable to work for two or three days.
Dimond, who holds the disputed license of an
hotel in Woolloomooloo, keeps open the house in spite
of the police, pending a Supreme Court appeal.
The case of Shepherd and others v. Shepherd
and others, in which there are 21 plaintiffs, was beard
at the Supreme Court on Monday. Good thing for the
horsehair gentry!
The Temora Herald estimates that .£500,000
of gold has been raised to the surface, locally, though
there is not a drop of water to wash it. The fate of
Temora, it adds, is trembling in the balance.
Sir Henry Parkes says that though samples of
liquor are constantly being taken for the purpose of
analysis from public-houses in obscure neighbourhoods,
supposed to be the most likely places for bad liquors to
be sold, no ingredient has been found upon which a
prosecution could lie.
The ploughing match under the auspices of the
Gulgong Agricultural Association came off on the 17th,
and was very successful. The cups presented by
Messrs. Hotfnung and Co. and Lassetter and Co. were
greatly admired. There was a large attendance of
farmers and families present, and great interest was
taken in the proceedings.
It is said that the Parramatta Gas Company has
frightened the Sydney Gas Company to such an extent
that! the latter have laid their pipes at Burwood fully
twelve months before they will be able to supply the
gas. The Parramatta Company were about arranging
for the supply. What we want is a branch of the
Parramatta Company—say at Darling Harbour.
Sergt. B. Haynes, of the N. S. W. Artillery,
committed suicide at the Victoria Barracks, on the
18th inst, while labouring under temporary derange-
ment of the mind, consequent upon congestion of the
brain. The deceased was of very steady habits, diligent
and reliable, and was very much liked throughout the
whole force. He was interred in the Necropolis, with
military honours, on Saturday.
Projected railways : Homebnah to Waratah
(Newcastle coal-fields), 95 miles, £2,755,000; Sydney to
WollongongaUd Kiama, 68 miles, £1,020,000; Goulburn
to Cooma, 130 miles, £1,430,000; Albury to Victorian
border (including moiety of cost of Murray River
Bridge), 11 miles, £BO,OOO ; Orange to Forbes, 83 miles,
£705,500; Narandera to Jerilderie, 63 miles, £518,000;
Cootamundra to Gundagai, 24 miles. £218.000; Mur-
rumburrah to Blayney, 108 miles, £1,260.010. Total
miles, 582 J; total amount, £7,986,500.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Some human remains were found in the stomach
of a large shark that was caught at Schnapper Point,
Bellinger River. It is proposed to establish a Bush-
man's Home in Melbourne The swindler Henri
Fitzgerald de Beaumont, who says he is a French
Count, has been recognised as an old chevalier d’in-
dustrie. He has been in more than one American peni-
tentiary. During the Franco-Prussian war he returned
to France and took an active part in the Commune, as
purveyor of ammunition to the rebels, and also as
commandant of a battalion of Communists. The name
he has assumed is that of the brother-in-law of Marshal
Macmabon At Adelaide a married woman named
Ann Holland attempted suicide by laudanum-
in consequence, she said, of her husband’s cruelty.
However, she recovered A very old railway
servant, who claims to have been the first railway
porter in Australia, has resigned, after holding the
position of signalman at Parramatta Junction for over
20 years 107 tons refined copper dispatched from
Cobar mines to Dubbo on 4th inst. About 2000 cattle
and 14,000 sheep are weekly consumed in Sydney A
Carcoar man has gone to the trouble of sketching and
forwarding to us a picture of the editorial chair at the
Blatnet Observer office. It’s a most wonderful piece
of furniture The rate-collector at Rockhampton re-
ceives £7 per week from the corporation Mr. W. F.
Whitney,of Cobb and Co. was presented with a silver
salver and claret jug by a few friends on his departure
from Orange 17 Chinaman were fined for playing fan
tan in Orange last Wednesday A female aboriginal
died at Bomaderry the other day through the bite of a
brown snake Shoalhaven News alludes to a rumour
that Mr T. B. Boyce, late of Murrnrrundi, is to be ap-
minted P.M. at Shoalhaven The longest jetty in
;he colonies to be erected at Five Islands Point near
Wollongong. It will be 750 feet long At Wollon-
gong an old government servant unsuccessfully applied
twice for leave of absence on account of ill-heath. He
has since died The admissions to the Melbourne
Exhibition now number over one million There are
8000 Good Templars in N.S.W About £lOOO will be
cleared by the doll show in Melbourne A J.P. has
been brought up at Ballarat on a charge of bigamy, and
remanded One share in Foley’s claim, at
Temora, has been sold for £735 Mr. E.
Heaton (Wright, Heaton and Co.) gives £lOO
to the grower of the best 2001bs. of hops in
the Orange, Bathurst, and Blayney districts
One-fourth of the million admissions to the Melboum
Exhibition were those of dead-heads The Grand
Council of the Protestant Alliance Friendly Society
have the sum of £3,000 to their credit, invested at
interest It has transpired that the capture of the
Kelly gang was not the result of any information given
to the police, and, consequently, the whole of the £BOOO
reward will be distributed among the men concerned in
the Glenrowan affair Mrs. Abcott, widow of Thomas
Abcott, late under-accountant of the Education De-
partment, Victoria, who committed suicide after his
dismissal on Black Wednesday, has died, leaving two
two orphan children Mr. Denis Murphy, a forty-
years’ resident of Parramatta district, and a native of
Sydney, died at Parramatta on Sunday, aged 64. He
was a genial, kind-hearted townsman, and will be much
missed.
The Town Hall Foundations.
In reference to the public scandal which has occurred
with regard to the bogus foundations of the Great
Hall, we are in a position to state that a criminal prose-
cution for conspiracy to defraud will bo instituted in
the course of a few days.
WEDDING WERSES.
For the Encouragement of Matrimony.
YA-ASS !—THAT'S SO!
•• At Yass, Mr. George Foot to Miss Mary Miles."
Mr. Foot of Smiling Yass
Has wedded Mary Miles the sweet;
So when the strangers coma the lass
Will have to call them “ little feet.”
Let’s hope the fam’ly will be large
(A brood the weary hour beguiles)—
For it will take, my noble “ Jarge,”
No end of feet to make one Mile(s).
* * • •
** Mr. Louis Hart to Miss Dinah Leroy.”
Her name it was Dinah,
Just eighteen years old.
With a very large fortune
In silrer and gold.
She was married last Wednesday,
That Dinah so. fair.
From her father’s gay mansion
In Wyn-y-ard Square.
She’d ev’rr fair grace, a
Da Stael could impart;
The name that the groom changed
Hers into was Hart.
So on that bright morning.
All radiant with sun.
Behold, those two young Harts
Were beating as one I
• • » •
“Tickle—Pearce.—February 12, at Adelaide, South
Australia, bv the Eev, S Fairey, William Henry
Tickle to Hornetta, eldest surviving daughter of
Thomas W. Pearce, of East Collingwood, Victoria.”—
Herald.
Amongst the maidens Hymen has
At work been with his sickle, *
And it !u Pearce, Hornetta Pearce
Is now Hornetta Tickle.
We hope that both their rosy lives
O p pleasure will boast mickle.
And th«t. Hornetta’s life will be
Like Aim—one pleasant Tickle !
• Poetic license.
* • • •
“Young—Smith.—February 19, at St. Stephen’s
Church, Penrith, by the Eev. George Brown, John
Whalley Young, of Kirkby Stephen, Westmoreland,
England, to Mary Ann, third daughter of Mr. George
Smith, of Sydney.”—Herald.
Sweet Mary Ann of noble kith
One time was simple Mary Smith.
As she grew up, for love did sigh,
fche found it gleam’d in John Young's eye.
As year’s roll on she'll ne’er be found
To b» the ancient dames among;
For while she lives above this ground.
Dear Mary will be always Young.
* * * •
" Holder—Swan.—June 30. by the Eev. W. Clarke,
Wesleyan Church, Chippendale, Heli, youngest son of
the late Thom is Helder, of Menangle, to Sarah, third
daughter of W. Swan, Esq., of Camden.”
Young Helder after Swan did dangle—
Yet was the leader of that Swaa ;
And they then sought out at Menangle
A (H)elder who would make them one.
Clarke of Chippendale did do it.
And tied the knot for evermore;
And Sal is—though they neither rue it—
More Helder than she was before.
* • • *
“ Swan—Tait.—February 26, by the Eev. W. Clark,
at the Weslevan Chnrch, Chippendale, William Thomas,
eldest son of Mr. William Swan, of Camden, to Annie,
the third daughter of the late Mr. James Tait, builder,
of this city ” —Herald.
Now. Annie, you should be elate.
For you’ll be changed from simple Tait
Br him, dear thou hast won—
Like Jupiter—with magic wand
(Mythology yon understand).
Into a pretty swan.
• • • •
“ Smith—W iring.—February 25, at the Presbyterian
Church, Pitt.street South, by the Eev. Henry Mao.
ready, James Alexander, youngest son of the late
James Smith, of Sydney, to Eliza Matilda, daughter of
the late Thomas Waring, of Sydney.”
Now his heart you will be sharing.
Yon will lack nor love nor kisses ;
Better far than being Waring
To be tranquil—and Smith's “ Missus.**
• • • *
" Campbell—Allsopp.—March 15, at the Bourke>street
Wesleyan Chapel, by the Eev. Dr. Kelynack, John
Arthur, son of the late James Campbell, of Shaftesbury,
Dorsetshire, England, to Elizabeth, only daughter of
the late William Allsopp, of Markyate-street, Hertford-
shire, England.”
“ Wine-and-women ” is a vice
That some cards believe in;
Yet, although that vice is nice.
It is sore deceivin’.
How better far is Johnny’s plan—
Campbell of the Scottish clan—
He sets a grand example here:
Goes for woman and for beer.*
• Allsopp’s.
• • • •
“ Cherry-Eastmure.—February 14, at St. Augustine’s,
Balmain, by the Eev. Q. F. Dillon, Martin Cronin
Cherry, to Clara Josepha, third daughter of the late
Joseph Eastmure.”
Dearest Clara, 'sooth ycur lot ;
Should be pleasant, very.
It is not ev’ry one who’s got
The luck to be a Cherry.
• » • •
•‘Short —Cooper.—On March 16, at the residence of
the bride’s parents, by the Eegistrar, George Short, of
Regent street. Eedfern, to Eva Maud, daughter of Mr.
W. Cooper. Wilson-street, Newtown.”—Herald.
Eva Cooper, Georgy sought.
And he made her Eva Short;
Short she is, but yet this song
Hopes she will bo happy long;
Hopes that ere a distant time
(It’s really hard to put in rhyme)
Hopes the chicks—but perhaps we ought—
Well, Georgy there !— we’U cut it short.
• • • *
•‘Mullen—Chappie.—On 5th instant, at St. Andrew’s
Church, Brighton, by the Eev. J. E. Bromby, D.D.,
George Edward, eldest son of Samuel Mullen, of Mel.
bourne, to Jennie, eldest daughter of Richard Chappie,
of Ballarat —Australian.
Religion is all very well
In its way, dear Samuel;
To us, however, it does seem,
You’re going to the last extreme.
Nuns wed the Church, it is quite true;
But that’s no reason, son. that you
Should do a matrimonial grapple
And wed—all by yourself—a Chappie.
• * • •
“Drake —Marsh. —March 2. Thomas Drake,
of Boulogne-sur-Mer, France, to Charlotte Marsh, of
Sydney. N.S.W.”
To be a clever conjurer.
Yon, Tom, we really take.
For you’ve, sharp boy, contrived to turn
Your duck into a Drake.
• • ♦ »
“ Hennessy—Walsh.—On the 23rd nit., at St.
Patrick’s Cathedral, Melbourne, by the Rev. J. Heffer-
nan, David Valentine Hennessy, Brunswick, second
son of Jas. Hennessy, Nicholson-street, Pitzroy, to
Lizzie Josephine, youngest daughter of Thomas Walsh,
Smith-street, Collingwood. Home papers please copy.”
Hennessy’s a real good thing
To take in moderation;
Tho’ too much of the battle-axe
Occasions botheration.
If e’er the hub. is cross, fair Liz.,
And bis bad temper you do see,
Be comforted: yon always can.
With ease, “put down your Uenneeay,”
“ Johnson—Paine. —On the 16th nit., at the residence
of the bride’s uncle (John Morgan, of Williamstown),
by the Rev. J. J. Halley, Thomas Forster Johnson to
Sarah Jane Paine.”
“A party by the name of Johnson” —
(When will we hear that “ gag ” again P) —
Not having quite sufficient trouble
At Williamstown got wed with Paine.
But yet he writes (we quote with pleasure):
“ My only Paine’s my greatest treasure.”
• • *
“Coote —Bunny.—On the 8th inst., at All Saints’, St.
Hilda, by the Rev. E. C. Spicer, Walter, son of Thomas
Coote, Esq., J.P., of Oaklands, St. Ives, Huntingdon-
shire, and Lisle-house, Bournemouth, to Annette
Laura, second daughter of Brice F. Bunnv, Esq., of
St. Hilda, Melbourne, barrister-at-law, and commis.
■ioner of titles for Victoria.”— Australasian.
Cynics say that matrimony
Of all evil is the root;
Walter said he’d taste that honey—
Bravely taste it—Coote qui Coote.
So he donned his Sunday habit.
And then went in for a rabbit.
May he—don’t it, now, sound funny P—
E’er be happy with his Bunny,
• * •
“Dominey—Allen.—On the 24th ult., at the Congre-
gational Church, Middle Brighton, by the Eev. S.
Bryant, George Frederick Clem, second son of the late
Charles Dominey, of London, to Emily Mary, only
daughter of Mr. John Allen, South Brighton.”—Aus-
tralasian.
The fatal knot is tied, dear Emily,
And Jove, you know, dear, did the same;
He wed, we’ve somewhere read, with Semele—
But what’s there, Emily, in a name ?
We cannot really all be lucky
In little bridal ventures, dear.
But really for you, “ George’s Ducky,”
We do not feel the slightest fear.
For you we feel quite more than easy.
Girls aren’t so shy as they appear;
And you’ll make things a little breezy.
If Dominey does domineer.
• • *
We do not often prophesy
In our delightful paper.
Because we think “ it’s all my eye,”
That Mother Shipton caper.
However, we will dare to say,
A certain Captain Eady
To wed one lady any day
Is rather more than ready.
The lady’s name we hear’s Miss Brain
(At least, so goes the story).
By wedding therefore he must gain
Much in his upper storey.
March 26, 1881.


HEATRE ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. Sami. Lazar
Acting Manager Mr. G. L. Goodman
WILLIAMSON'S OPEEA COMPANY.
THE " PIEATE3 OP PENZANCE" SEASON.
THE LATEST and GEEATEST MUSICAL NOVELTY.
TETUMPHANT SUCCESS
of Messrs. QILBEET and SULLIVAN'S famous Melo-
dramatic Opera, the
PIEATES OF PENZANCE.
PIEATES OF PENZANCE,
of which Mr. J. C. WILLI AMSUN, by special arrange-
ment with Mr. E. D’OV I.Y CaK’IE. of London, has
secured the the SOLE EIGHT for the Colonies.
GEAND CHOBU3 and DOUBLE OECHESTEA,
Under the direction of
SIQNOtt GfOEZA.
Leader, Mr. W. J. Eioe.
POPULAE PRICES.—Dross Circle, ss; Stalls, 3;
Family Circle, 2s; Pit. Is.
Box office at Elry and Co.’s, Qeorge-street, where
plan of Dress Circle can he seen, and Seats secured.
AETHUE QAENEE, Manager.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
LAST WEEK BUT ONE
of the management of
COPPIN, HENNINGS, and QEEVILLE.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING,
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS
of
the Celebrated Adelphi Drama,
THE GEEEN BUSHES.
THE GKEEN BUSHES.
Nelly O’Neill (with songs and dances) Kate Foley
Supported by the full strength of the
QUEEN’S STAR COMPANY.
To conclude with the gorgeous Fairy Tale
CINDERELLA.
New Scenery, Music, Dresses and Fairy Coach.
Greville, Leston, Lenton, Lilian Forde, Mesdames
Greville and Palmer, Corps de Ballet, and
numerous auxiliaries.
SATURDAY NIGHT, March 26,
The last Grand Production of the Season,
SHIP AHOY. SHIP AHOY. SHIP AHOY.
With unequalled Scenic and Mechanical Effects.
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
GENUINE SUCCESS
and
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of
SWEATNAM’S MINSTEELS.
Manager W. P. SWEATNAM.
Stage Manager W. HORACE BENT.
Received with cordial welcome after a season exceeding
ONE HUNDRED CONSECUTIVE NIGHTS
at St. George’s Hall. Melbourne.
Immense Success of
OUE QUARTETTE!
Great Success of OUR OLIO (
THIS EVENING, and until further notice.
Box plan at Messrs. Nicholson A Co.’s, 325 George-at.
Prices, ss. 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7T5; commence at 8.
F. H. POLLOCK, Agent.
JAMES D. COX, 'Treasurer.
goHOOL OF ARTS.
Commencing
SATURDAY, March 26, and every evening.
ARRIVAL IN AUSTRALIA OP
PROFESSOR ANDERSON
PROFESSOR ANDERSON
PROFESSOR ANDERSON
PROFESSOR ANDERSON
the Wizard of the North, assisted by
LOUISE ANDERSON,
in their resplendent Cagliostromantheun,
of Wizardian Prestidigation.
SUITE OF FURNITURE, OR
HANDSOME PIANO,
together with 100 other valuable presents, given away
nightly, expressly to advertise this
MARVELLOUS ENTERTAINMENT.
Admission: —3s., 25., Is. Commenceat 8 p.m..
Tickets may be had at Mrs. Kirby’s Book Store,
opposite Farmer’s.
T
HE AUSTRIAN BAND.
GRAND MUSICAL COMBINATION.
FRIDAY, 25th, MARCH.
Fifth and Last Combination Concert
of
THE GREAT BOEMA
THE FAMED AUSTRIAN BAND
THE FAVORITE AGNES PALMA
at the
GARDEN PALACE.
Box plan at Elvy’s.
A u
STRIAN BAND.
FANCY DRESS BALL.
By Special Permission of
The Hon, the COLONIAL SECRETARY.
To be held at the
GARDEN PALACE,
on
TUESDAY, sth APRIL NEXT.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency the Governor.
10 per cent, of the gross receipts to be devoted to the
Public Charities through the Committee:
Sir ALFRED STEPHEN, C.B.
Sir JOHN HAY, K.C.M G.
Sir G. W. ALLEN. K.C.M.G.
Sir PATRICK JENNINGS, K.C.M.G.
S °R
CRICKET
CLUB.
ANNUAL PICNIC TO TENNYSON,
On SATURDAY, March 26.
Imperial Band engaged. Steamers leave Woolloo-
mooloo Bay at 2 o’clock, and Circular Quay at 2.15 and
2.30. Tickets, Is 6d each.
JJAVID M’CALL,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,1873, and 1875.
WAVERLEY TRAMWAYS.
CHESTERFIELD.
CHESTERFIELD.
CHESTERFIELD.
THIS GRAND SUBURBAN ESTATE
Is situate within three minutes’ walk of the Tramway
Terminus.
COMMANDING GRAND. VIEWS.
NOW BEING SUBDIVIDED by Mr. Surreyor
Thompson
Into
59 ALLOTMENTS.
Fronting
NELSON ROAD.
WATKINS-STREET.
CHESTERFIELD PARADE.
ARDEN-S IREET.
ALL THE ALLOTMENTS HAVE LARGE
FRONTAGES. AND DEPTHS TO WIDE LANES
AT THE REAR.
OVERLOOKING-JHIGHLY-IMPROVED FAMILY
RESIDENCES.
FOE AUCTION SALE,
ON THE GROUND.
ON SATURDAY, 9th APRIL,
AT 3 O’CLOCK.
HARDIE AND GORMAN have been favoured
with instructione from the Proprietors of this
VALUABLE ESTATE,
to Sell by Public Auction,
THE WHOLE OF THE ALLOTMENTS.
ON SATURDAY, 9th APRIL.
09* All the pegs will be numbered, street posts
with the names will be erected, the streets will
be trenched, thas affording intending pur.
chasers every possible assistance to find the
allotments.
•ST SPECIAL TERMS are to be made, to 'be
announced in future advertisement.
«T SPECIAL TRAMWAYS will run on .the day.
v INSPECTION PREVIOUS TO THE DAY
OF SALE INVITED.
V* THIS IS ONE OF THE; MOST LIBERAL
SUBDIVISIONS THAT HAS BEEN OF-
FERED TO THE PUBLICJFOR SOME
TIME.
«9* CHESTERFIELD RESTATE.
%*JDAY OF. SALE,
SATURDAY, 9th APRIL.
LARGE SALE PLAN AND LITHOGRAPHS IN
COURSE OF PREPARATION.
The misses gibb,
(Late with Messrs. David Jones and Co.},
\ 52, MARGARET STREET,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Three Doors from Mr. J. Spencer, Dentist,
Have much pleasure in announcing that they are about
to open Mantles Millinery, and specialities suitable for
Ladies for the Autumn Season. An early inspection is
respectfullj solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET. WYNYARD SQUARE.
fJIHOMAS WEBB AND SONS,
GLASS AND CHINA MERCHANTS,
BOND STREET,
SYDNEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL AGENTS
FOB
WEDGWOOD & WINTON’S POTTERY.
Inspection invited.
Professional Addresses
M,
E. S. L A Z A E.
ADDRESS :
Professional—Theatre Royal.
Private—“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra.
Me. j. e. geevi l l e.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
Me. l. m. b a y l e s s.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently,
Me. peed, m aeshall.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MISS MYEA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
MB. & MRS. HARRY W. EMMET,
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Maoquarie-street, Sydney.
M
E. M. S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
ME. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zvnv War).
ON TOUR:
St. George's Hall, Melbourne, March 27th till end of
April.
Tasmania, New Zealand to follow.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
.£l5OO additional has been subscribed to Ormond
College Melbourne. An effort will be made to raise
£lO,OOO addk' < nal next year.
The Nowra Telegraph states that the Eev.
W. Graft, M A. (Presbyterian), and Eev. K. A. Comer
(Wisieyan), Shoalhaven, have been frequently exchang-
ing pulpits of late.
The Bishop of Sydney receives .£l5OO per annum
from the sum provided uuder schedule C of the Consti-
tution Act. He also receives £5OO from the Bishop-
thorpe Estate. He draws his full salary daring his
absence from the colony.
Archbishop Vaughan will, on Sunday, the 27th,
lay the foundation-stone of a presbytery in connection
with St. Bede’s Church, Pyrmont. This being a poor
pariah, the co-operation of the Catholics of Sydney is
solicited by the clergymen in charge.
Last Sunday evening, Archbishop Vaughan
delivered the second of his series of Lenten discourses
on “ The Lord’s Prayer.” As on the previous Sunday
evening, the pro-Cathodral was crowded.
At one of the principal churches in Hobart, the
other Sunday evening, the minister had to step the
the service for the purpose of reprimanding some ill-
mannered “young bloods,” prominent among whom
was the son of an ecclesiastical dignitary.
On Sunday night the eloquent Vicar pitched into
the Premier, the Puritans and Protestant ascendancy,
and remarked that the only ascendancy wanted was
that of Christianity. The cream of the joke was that
the Minister for Justice (Sir George lanes) took round
the plate.
The following are copied from a pamphlet re-
cently published by Prof. Yonng of Cambridge, U.S.A.,
on “ Subjects for Master’s Degree in Harward College,
1655-1791” : —“When Bilaam’s ass spake was there any
change in its organs P Will the saints in heaven, after
the last judgment, speak in Hebrew ? If Lazarus had
made a will before his death, giving away his property,
could he hare legally claimed it after his resurreo-
ion P”
The statue of Spinoza, lately unveiled at Hague,
is the first sculptured effigy of a Jew ever erected.
While the Jews were a nation their abhorrence of
idolatry prevented a practice so common amongst the
Assyrians and Egyptians; since then they have been
hardly popular e mugh for others to do for them what
they omitted to do themselves; and now, after num-
berless monumental representations of Christ and the
Apostles, the first statue of a Jew is that of a Pan-
theist.
A correspondent writes: —“The new system
introduced into the Rockhampton R. C. Church some
eighteen months ago, and now in force, gives great dis-
satisfaction to the congregation. The scale of charges,
including a school tax, is—front row on either side of
the aisle, £6 per annum ; or for the front centre row,
viz., fourteen sittings, £B4 per annum. The other
sittings back are on a sliding scale. No. 1,30 s. per
quarter; No 2. 295.; No. 3, 285., and so on down to ss.
per quarter for a back seat. In addition to two centre
rows, there is a row on each side each seat accommo-
dating six persons. These are let cheaper, commencing
at 255. down to ss. A notice posted at the door informs
strangers that they will be admitted to a seat on pay-
ment of Is., bat should any member of the congre-
Stion refuse to comply with the regulations, the clerk
s received imperative instructions as to the course
to be taken.
Hare is “ The Apostate’s Creed“ I believe in
a chaotic nebula self-existent, evolver of heaven and
earth. And in the differentiation of the original
homogeneous mass; its first begotten product, which
was self-formed, into land and water, self-organised
into plants and animals, reproduced in like species,
further developed into higher orders, and ultimately
refined, rationalized, and perfected in man; he de-
scended from the monkeys, asonded to the philosopher,
and sitteth down in the rights and comforts of civiliza-
tion nnder the laws of developing sociology; from
thence he shall oome again by the disintrigation of the
heterogenized cosmos bank into the original homo-
geneousness of chaos. I believe in the wholly imper-
sonal absolnte; the wholly uncatholic faith, the dis-
union of the saints, the survival of the fittest, the
persistence of force, the dispersion of the body, and in
death everlasting."
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Edward Car loss ” ; Your letter received too
late “M.S" (West Maitland): Too long; rather
spiteful; only of local interest, and possibly libellous.
“ W.S." (Mnrrnmhurrah) : Cannot decipher your
M.S “ Q.W.": Not of general interest “ Moon-
light”: Yerso not up to the mark “ Kookaburra”
(Brisbane) : Will write you in a day or two “ Anti-
talutin’ ” : Received “ Stephen Adolphus Brown ”:
Too much like Arthur Sketchley to be of Australian
interest “E PM": We’re quite tired of “Pina-
fore.” “W.W.” (Buraba): Glad to hear from you,
“A Friendly Poke in the Eye’.’: Thanks; please
call “A Member of the Profession": There’s no
necessity to publish your letter, we have received many
like it this week. “X.Y.Z.” (Coonamhle): Weallnde
to the grievance in another part of the paper. Your
verses are unsuitable. “J.EM.” ;Yes. Very good.
“Awkshaw”: Received “Edith G.” (“Darling
Point.”): “Too thin, dear Edith, too thin” “A
Subscriber”: We don’t deal in snch things “A
Constant Subscriber”: Must send name “Jno. M.
G.” : Too shadowy and indefinite for us “E. N.’’:
We shall be grateful if posted in this kind of news
“ W. W. G.” : We really can’t make out your MSS
“ J.C.” (Adelaide): Glad to hear from you at any time.
Next issue “Subscriber” (Cooma): Were we to
publish your paragraph it would have to be as part of a
report of the event to which you allude “ A.E S.” :
Not good enough- “R. G.” :We don’t print things
which we do not ourselves understand “Sec. Y.O.
C.C.": Must be in on Tuesday at latest “ Young
Belmore C.C.”: See preceding reply.
Le Poete.
Le poete, inspire lorsque la terra ignore.
Resemble a oes grands monts, dont la nouvelle aurore
Dore avant tout a son reveil;
Et qui, longtemps vainquenrs de I’ombre,
Gardent, j usque dans la nuit sombre,
Les derniers rayons du soleil.
—Victor Hugo.
Heard from a balcony ; —“ I say, mate, give a
poor chap a few coppers for a feed.” “ Him ’’ with a
slouched hat over his eyes, “ I’m on that lay myself;
I’m just out of quod."
How they do it. “ Tickets, sir! ” All the pas-
sengers, except one, hiving given up their tickets.
Guard: ‘‘Just ask that further gent, for his ticket.”
Passenger: “ Mister, the guard wants your ticket.”
“ I’m the member for .” Everyone faints.
“ The 17th of Ireland” was celebrated in Bar-
raba by a citizens’ picnic, followed in the evening by a
citizens’ ball. Everything was in the most recherche
style, and when heated and fatigued with the intricacies
of the mazy dance the seraphic forms adjourned to the
refreshment Joom, and angelic smiles played about each
feminine feature as osith sylph-like grace they “scoffed”
the aqueous melon, wrestled with elderly buns, and
melted down the sugar and chalk confections of love.
The scene equalled in poetic beanty Meaden’s happiest
®sort, or a large sized circes-poster.
Notes and Queries gives the following key to
the characters in “ Bndymion —Zenobia, Lady Jersey;
Berengaria (Lady Montford), Hon. Mrs. Norton ; Agrip-
pina, Queen Hortense : Adriana Neufchatel, Lady Bur-
kett Coutts ; the Neufohatels, the Eothschilds; Colonel
Albert (Prince Plorestan), Napoleon III; Lord Eoe-
hampton, Lord Palmerston; Lord Montford, the late
Lord Hertford; Lord Rawchester, Earl Granville; Earl
of Beaumais, the late Earl Derby; Mr. Bertie Tre-
maine, Lord Houghton; Count of Frehroll, Prince Bis-
marck; Endymion (the author), Disraeli; Nigel Pen-
ruddock, Cardinal Manning; Mr. Ferras (the grand-
father) Rt. Hon. George Rose; George Waldershare,
frsorge Smy the; Job Thornbery, Richard Cobden; Mr.
£iffo, Mr. Poole; Mr. Jorrocks, Mr. Milner Gibson;
Hartensius, Sir W. Tenon Harcourt; Mr. Saint Barbe,
Thackeray; Mr. Qushy, Dickens; Topsy-Turrey,
» anity Fair ; Scaramouch, Punch.
LATE SPORTING.
Eush won over -£3OO.
Savanaka trains here for the Adelaide Cup.
Eush made a handsome collection for his beaten
opponent.
The Petersham Club defeated the Sydney United
on Saturday last by 119 runs.
The Victorian Eacing Club has decided to hold
a Winter Steeplechase meeting.
.£10,950 was the amount of the prizes given at
the late Victorian Race Club meeting.
E. T. Jones, of the Lambeth Baths, swam 100
yards in Im. B)s., the fastest on record.
A Grafton patron of aquatic sports will back
Rush for £l5O out of £2OO against Laycock.
Mr. Dawbarn, the able secretary of the Queens-
land Turf Club, has some “ friends” in the Club.
At the late Dunedin meeting, .£15,000 went
through the totalisator, and the Club realised £750.
M'Mahon, who was defeated by McDonald at
Grafton, is a Canadian, and intends to pull M'Donald
again in six months’ time.
Non-members of the Eowing Association will bo
admitted to the two steamers following the Eight-
oared race on payment of 7s. 6d. for gentlemen, and
ladies ss.
G. H. Bailey, the Tasmanian representative in
the first Australian Eleven, made the magnificent score
of 227, and not out, in a match played lately by the
Derwent era.
The Australian Eleven having now disbanded,
the Victorian representatives are once again playing
with their old clubs. Alexander, in his first match,
made 128 (not out).
Eush will back D. M'Donald against any man
his weight (lOst. 61bs.) in Australia or the world. He
considers him a perfect rower. We’d like to see him
meet Bob Edwards.
The second of the series of four races for a sweep-
stakes trophy took place on Saturday afternoon. The
entries were Regina, Nereid, Ouida, and Ettie. Ouida
won with 40 seconds to spare.
Eush offered to pull Pearce, giving .£lOO to .£7O,
and give him five boat lengths. He also offered to pull
Messenger or Power for a level £lOO, and give him ten
lengths. Neither offer was accepted.
Smith is not satisfied with his defeat in the
Sparring match at the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, on
Saturday night, and has now challenged Professor
West to box again for £lOO or £l5O aside.
A Victorian “ welsher ” named Glynn, who was
arrested in Tasmania for carrying on his nefarious
business at the Tasmanian Jockey Club meeting, has
been committed for trial at the Hobart Criminal Court.
The results of the races at Carawabitty on St.
Patrick’s Day were as follow: —Maiden Plate, Playboy 1.
Carrawabitty Handicap, Playboy 1. Handicap Hack
Race, The Cripple 1. Hurdle Race, Polka 1. After a
capital contest at “ Tilting at the Ring," Mr. R. Law
was declared the victor. The sports passed off very
pleasantly.
Two or three of the members of the Melbourne
ring journeyed to Hay to assist at the meeting held
there on St. Patrick’s Day; bnt, on being informed
that they would have to pay three guineas for the right
of betting on the course, they, regarding the demand as
an imposition, returned to Melbourne in time to catch
the train to Kyneton.
Eaces were held at Ilford, Mudgee-road, on St.
Patrick’s day, and as the diggers were in from Sandy
Bar and Roaring Camp, there was much “ life." Host
Moore had all he could do to keep pace with the demands
made upon his good cheer. The rooster which Noah
took into his ark suffered death on the occasion, and
was eaten at a small “race dinner ” in the evening.
In the late match the Australian Eleven fielded
and bowled well; bnt the fielding of the Fifteen was
very unequal, several runs being obtained from over-
throws. There were some splendid catches made,
notably by Healey, Kelly, and Elliott; and the latter
kept the wickets well. Murdoch, as usual played good
cricket, and made some capital hits, including several
fours. Bounor was not in his usual form. All round
good cricket was shown ; but some of the batsmen on
both sides were very unlucky, especially on the side of
the Fifteen.
Eush and Pearce’s race may be said to have
been the grandest contest that has taken place in the
colonies at any rate for a very long time. When
the final deposit was made, Pearce was all in
demand, on account of Rush’s bad condition.
Early on the morning of the race, after the arrival of
the Sydney steamer, betting became very brisk ; some
heavy wagers were made, and the backers of both were
very confident. At 12 punctually both men were seen
pulling to the starting point (school-house). Rnsh looked
well, but Pearce was apparently in splendid condition.
They started by mutual consent, Eush getting the best
gradually drew away, and after 200 yards was a length
ahead. He kept this lead up till a mile, when a most
desperate struggle ensued. Pearce put on a grand
spurt, and gained on his opponent, but the “veteran ”
was equal to the occasion, and answered gamely, keeping
the lead and giving Pearce his wash —both rowing
splendidly. The same state of affairs lasted until
Mcßae’s wharf was reached, when Pearce made another
splendid spurt, and lessened the gap, but was answered
by Mick, who again got his lead of a length. Pearce’s
party were still very confident, as they were expecting
him to pnll a waiting race. Both men palled steadily
till Martin’s Point was reached. Going across, Pearce
splashed; Eush followed suit, and splashed very much
with his right scull. Pearce’s backers here became jubi-
lant, as Rush was apparently pumped. Within 100
yards of the finish, Pearce again made a brilliant spurt.
He gained on Bush, and was heartily cheered by his
backers Rush maintained his strong lead until within
20 yards, when Pearce made a most desperate and de-
termined s’ruggle, but he managed to lessen only half
the distance, and Rush won the great race by no more
than half a length. Both men were “ done up.” out at
the finish.
The Intercolonial Bight-oared Race-
The eye* of all rowing men are now turned upon the
great annual race between the amateur oarsmen of
Victoria and New South Wales. The fourth of these
friendly contests is to take place, over the usual course,
on the Parramatta River, on the 9th April. The first
was rowed in Melbourne in March, 1878, when the local
oarsmen were victorious, but the Sydney men turned
the tables upon their “ cousins" the following year on
the Parramatta River. Melbourne showed the road
over thj Lower Yarra last April, and they now pay us
a visit, in accordance with the fixed arrangements
between the rawing associations of the two colonies,
to endeavour to beat us upon our own water, a feat not
yet accomplished by any of the numerous crews that
have rowed ou the waters of Port Jackson. The New
South Wales eight consists of Messrs. C. Bros (bow),
C. Gaden (2), T. Arthur (3), W. G. Anslow (4), W. O.
Brett (5), C. Salmoud (6), A Finlayson (7), D. Lord
(stroke), and are under the care of Mr. P. J. Clark,
who is acting as honorary coach. They are residing
at the river quarters of the Sydney Bowing Club, and
do their work every afternoon over the whole course.
As most of the crew have been engaged in various
races throughout the summer, they are iu fair con-
dition, and the difficulty the coach experiences is giving
his men sufficient practice in the craft without letting
any of them grow stale on his hands. The work per-
formed so far has, therefote, been very moderate, slow
rows of 34 to the minute considered preferable te send-
ing them along at anything like racing speed. Most of
the men have individual faults, but this is always the
case where old oarsmen who have learned in difficult
schools are to be seen rowing in the same boat.
The Victorian critics do not speak very highly of
their representatives this year, although several of the
crew were in last year’s boat, and it was considered the
finest eight ever got together in Victoria. The stroke,
Mr G Upward, is a first-class oarsman, and also acta
as Captain of the Eight, so there need be no fear that
his men will not be brought to the post “ fit as fiddles.”
The Victorians will row in a new craft, turned out by
that clever builder, Dick Fuller; and his assistant,
George, is ooaaing round with the boat. The crew
arrive here at 7 o'clock this (Saturday) morning. It is
however, hoped that there will be a good muster of
rowing men at the Bedfern Station, to give them a
hearty welcome. They are to take up their quarters at
Drury’s Ryde Hotel, and will keep the boat at the S.B.C.
boathouse, the use of which has been kindly granted to
them by the Committee of that Club.
The trial spins of both crews will be carefully
watched by us, and duly reoorded in our columns.


BRIEF MENTION.
When will that Consul be sober ?
Extremely emaciated—David’s letter.
Nearly time the Dibbs case was settled. Oh,
Law!
The proprietors of a certain Melbourne paper
are going to law.
Good news for the Good Templars—Decline of
the Morning Rum.
The most uncomfortable seat in Sydney is the
elaborately-carved chair in the City Treasurer’s office.
It is said that the only persons getting rich in
Sydney at the present time are clergymen and tram-
conductors.
What is the computed displacement of water
when Mr. , peer of the colony (you know whom
we mean), takes a bath ?
An English hardware paper says that an Ameri-
can manufacturer is miking cast-iron axes which “ will
he traded with the natives of Northern Australia for
ivory !”
During the riot—and it was little else—that
occurred in the Outer Domain on the night of the
balloon ascent, the police secured one prisoner—aetat
twelve!
A Darlinghnrst “ man,” after whom the police
are now looking, has of late amused himself br sending
obscene valentines to young ladv residents of Newtown
and Woollahra. Prosecution will probably eventuate.
In the tram. He, a cleric; she, a young blonde
nursing a poodle. He: “ The weather is delightful!”
She: “Yes.” He: “You’re fond of pets?" She:
“ Yes,” looking aslant, and adding, with a bewitching
smile, “ particularly mammals." Fellow passengers
grinned.
The other evening, in the Assembly, Mr. R. B.
Smith said that he’d “taken the matter at the first
blush.” Oh, Burdeot! you naughty boy. What do you
know about “first blushes”—or, rather, what don’t
you know ?
An up-country correspondent states that in his
district lives are constantly being lost, and unfortunate
beings remain maimed for life, owing to their inability
to pay the extortionate charges of the local doctor.
Our correspondent’s district is not the only one whose
residents are justified in making such a complaint.
The cartoon in the current number of Mel-
bourne Punch is an ingenious and highly effective one
It represents King Death riding a Yan-Yean water pipe,
whicu is arranged in a serpent-like coil, and has a tap
which gives it somewhat the appearance of a snake.
The picture is entitled “ The Undertaker’s Best
Friend.”
One really should not cavil at a little loose Eng-
lish (savs “ ./Egles’’) when an English society journal
says:—“lt is announced that the execution of the
medal for the Afghan war will be divided between Mr.
Boehm, who will design the head of the Queen, and
Mr. R. Caldecott, who will undertake the reverse.”
Now, what is the reverse of Her Majesty? Is it her
back, or Mr. Bradlaugh ?
A large _ number of our Civil servants are in
active training, in anticipation of qualified inspectors of
public-house liquors being required under the new
Liquor Suspension Act. Quite so. A mere “ second
rate ’’ paper has no right to go poking its plebeian
proboscis into the affairs of dignitaries like the Lord
High Commissioner for the Western Pacific and the
Commodore of our naval forces.
Scene: Yard of a Sydney hotel; Ketten, in
cricketing suit, approaches huge dog kennel; dog
comes out, and holds up paw. Great musician:
“Rockey. mon chien, voici votre bon maitre. [To
ostler:] Rockey do vant a vash—he do not smell sweet.
Please kindly do vash poor Hockey’s face, and just
make one little ponding for his lonohe." And then, as
the great musician walked off. he said, “ Good-bye,
dear Rockey; good-bye sweet Rockey, my darling.”
Fact.
In the old days, up Rockhampton way. a land-
lord was accused bv a customer of the hundred-a-day
and no tar sort, with adulterating the grog with spirits
of lime. The sinner was not the slightest upset at the
charge, but, leaning over the counter, requested his
unfortunate victim to shut up, as the sanguinary
swells in the next room were drinking kerosene, and
thought it was champagne. There is some back bone
in this anecdote, and as the Zig-zaggers usually copy
our jokes, we commend this one to their notice.
The Melbourne teetotallers have a new drink
called “ Vigorine." It is done up in champagne bottles,
gold topped, etc, and, when opened, has a head and
sparkle that cannot be distinguished from the fashion-
able wine. It is pleasant to the taste, and, if it only
made you tipsy, would be equal to the best champagne
that ever popped. Anyhow, it gives the fast Christian
young man an opportunity of saying to a friend, as he
pulls his melancholy-looking moustache, “ Aw, come
and —an’—have a bottle of gold-top,” and of paying for it
with a shilling instead of a sovereign.
‘‘The Empress Eugenie will shortly publish the
‘History of the Life and Death of the Prince Imperial,’
written by herself." We suppose M. Rouher will touch
up H°r Majesty’s copy; for when her letters to the
late Emperor were intercepted, it was discovered that
the lady’s only possessed very crude ideas in regard to
French spelling and composition. The subject, how-
ever, will be an interesting one; and, therefore, if the
style be a little crooked, we will forgive her on the same
principle that we pardon the writer of a par. in the
Evening Yell that has got some news in it.
The Campbelltown Herald has a Sydney
correspondent who don’t appear to like us. We can’t
imagine how we have offended him, but suppose we
were out when he called round on the chance of a
“ long ’un.’ His intentions towards givingus a “doing ”
are good, but his grammar hardly comes up to them.
Alluding to the public he says :—“ . , . . “ that in
encouraging and patronising journals in such practices,
they in their turn will come in for a scurrilous handling
if they are in a position to have excited the queen-eyed
(sic) in jealous dispositions.” A dose of Attic
salts is clearly wanted here.
A young gentleman in a border town insured his
life with an association which we shall distinguish as
No. 1. However, he was induced by the greater
advantages offered by insurance company No. 2, to
transfer shortly after Cup Day, and wrote to society
No. 1 to ascertain the surrender value of his policy.
With the reply, came an offer from the society to “lend
him a sum within such surrender, repayable at his
convenience.” The worthy secretary evidently didn’t
believe that another society could allure his policy,
holders, and probably imagined that the young gentle-
man had been speculating on the races.
The Ulladulla Something is getting frisky.
It has a column now in emulation of the metropolitan
papers, called “Cheese and Salad,” As might have
been expected, this portion of the Ulladulla What’s
his-nahe is decorated by wit and humour, which
coruscates on the page in myriad sparkles. The first
item is of enthralling interest. It runs as follows:
“ Church of England.—A Children’s Service will (D.v.)
be held in the Forest Church, next Sunday afternoon,
at 3 30. All parents are invited to attend." Now.
allowing for the ability embodied in this item, we fail
to see how it can be conscientiously connected with
“ cheese and salad.” In the first place, the natural
concomitant of cheese and salad is beer; and beer,
somehow or other, don’t assimilate with a tea-fight. In
short, we are of opinion that this salad is hardly the
"cheese”—journalistically, anyhow.
The Campbelltown Herald has engaged the
servicei of an original contributor. This writer has
his points as a writer, only, when he fancies a man, he
can never see his faults. Now he fancies a gentleman
who is—or was—a missionary, and the result is that he
can’t see that the gentleman in question, while possibly
being a very good man, is a thunderingly bad poet. Here
is a specimen that he quotes of Mr. A.’s soul-spasms
“ Oh! ladies all I’ve a new~mode.
Of sending coals out by the load,
Taking payment as from boarders.
They’re clean and good ; laws, how they shine;
Real ‘ Oldham cobs ’ and best * Black mine,’
Come, do give me an order." (Sic).
The way he rhymes “ order ” to “ boarders ” is very
refreshing, while “the humour of it” is simply
exhilarating. If Mr. A. will come along in our direction
we will happily give him an order—for the Necropolis.
Gas-lights are badly wanted between Fort Mac-
quarie and the Gardens.
The Sydney Corporation, owing no doubt to its
shameful bungling, pays 10s. per cent, more for its loan
than the Melbourne Council.
The Lyre, facetiously no doubt, observes that
if they get no water at Temora the situation will be-
come very grave —grave-yard.
There is not a particle of truth in the rumour,
which we hasten authoritatively to contradict, that the
Wolverene is under orders to shell the office of the
Penny Exile.
In front of the Commercial Bank, the other day,
a well-dressed Celestial threw away a cigar-end, which
a bloated white man was seen to pick up and finish.
Oh, my country I
Ore of the papers reports Mr. Darley, Q.C., as
having said, the other day, that our Supreme Court
has, in cases of divorce only jurisdiction over marriages
celebrated within its own jurisdiction.
The Rev. Canon Stephen has, we hear, denounced
The Bulletin. We hope the rev. gentleman doesn’t
feel annoyed at our recent delicate reference to those
“ charity banquets" at the Infirmary.
Wanted to know, the name of the high “salt
water” official who annually spends half a sov. in gilt-
laced valentines, to send to himself? Has he “no one
to love”—or are his lady friends more flush of sense
than silver ?
Scene : Melbourne International. Sir to
exhibitor: “You must take down that notice of
highest awards that you’ve got stuck up over your
exhibit, as you only got a second award.” Exhibitor:
“ Oh, I only put it up to save the reputation of the
jurors.”
King-street East has been remetalled —heaven
save the mark! —and this is the modus operandi: Junks
of blue stone thrown down to a depth of six inches, a
little soil over that, and the rest left to Providence and
the kind help of unfortunate 'bus and cab horses. We
wonder whose fault it is this time.
s)When the muffin-maker to the Parliamentary
caterer heard that a certain member refused to pay his
three-guinea subscription he was much affected. He
supplies the muffins by contract, and he is anxiously
calculating how much it would pay him to have the mem-
her assassinated. A man can’t go on losing a shilling a
day for ever, and not turn Aha-nx-r 1
A Sydney auctioneer the other day sold fonr
horses at 2i 6d each. When the purchaser paid for the
last of them he wanted them put up again, but the
knight of the hammer told him to “ take the old hacks
away,' or pay a man doable their cost to lead them
home. Many of their legs, it need hardly be said,
were straight, so there’s little likelihood of any of the
fonr taming oat to be an Hesperian.
The committee for the St. Patrick’s Day banquet
sent an invitation to a certain distinguished Scotch-
man. Here is his neat reply “ Gentlemen,—Your
kind invitation I received, and but for other duties
preventing,_ I should be present, especially as a Cale-
donian anxious to do honour to the memory of my
countryman who in God’s providence did so much for
your dear Ireland.—Yours in haste but repectfully,
A splendid opening for young solicitors should,
but doesn’t exist, at Hobart. Here is a clipping from a
Tasmanian bill of costs ; —To writing generally on your
affairs, long letter (2 sides in a big round hand”) I2s.
To attending and ordering same to be posted, 6s 8d
Addressing envelope, 3g 4d. Paid Postage (honest
charge), 2d. Licking Stamp, 3s 4d. Clerk’s fee 10 6d
To attending Post Office therewith, 3s 4d. Counsel’s
opinion as to whether a late had fee better not be affixed
£3 3s.
Our friend Thadeus O’Kane, up North, is still
making things lively for the Charters Towers people.
In a late issue he says:—“What is about the lowest
piece of meanness that a man can commit ? Give it up ?
* Boycotting ’ the Northern Miner on principle and then
sneaking in to your neighbor for a read of the same
paper. Our friends should try how those sneaks would
like a little * Boycotting’ in return." We don’t suffer
in this way; because when a man once buys The
Bulletin he will never by any chance lend it. Too
precious.
Freemasonry at Croajingolongayarramantigong-
alungah means “ Tear your brotherly eyes out.” On»
lodge, half-formed, can’t get on because everyone hates
its secretary ; and the other lodge is in the same fix for
an exactly similar reason. And everyone whom the
respective secretaries hate —that is to say every other
person in the place—“objects to be blackballed by such
canaille. ’ However, a lodge in an adjoining town is
getting along splendidly. Sixteen candidates made in
a month—kid gloves, tail coats, big spreads, jolly
fellows, good Masons.
Things are dull with the horse dealers and d®g
fanciers now that Ketten has gone.
People are asking why the colonial agents for
big lines of steamers don’t go home in their own boats
but by those of rival steamers.
That nine o’clock gun could be well spared for a
season to “regulate" those Solomon-Islanl “fellahs.”
Our watches keep very good time, thank you.
A lunch at the Mansion House, London, to
entertain the King of the Hellenes, cost £l9BO odd.
The luncheon that his Worship the Mayor gave cost
but, no matter.
Civil servants have had horses fall upon them,
have been subpoenaed as witnesses, have wanted leave
to bid parents bon voyage —and yet James wouldn’t grant
them leave of absence.
There’s a story current—we don’t know how
true it is—that several of the committee of the Sydney
St. Patrick’s Day banquet were in favour of the health
of the Pope being proposed on the occasion.
What’s the name of the “ gay Lothario ” who,
on Sunday last, at Snail’s Bay, sat on a gun loaded with
split peas ? The old man has since humbly apologised,
and explained that he “ thought it was a dog."
The other day, in court, Mr. Darley made some
allusion to “ new law courts,” whereupon Mr. Salomons
exclaimed, “ Before we get new law courts in this city,
Mr. Darley, you and I will be flying each other for a
fiver."
As a rule, the Parramatta aldermen in council
follow the bell-sheep on all matters affecting the inter-
ests of the bomugh. At last meeting, the bell-sheep
being absent, they all voted with the ewe (Hugh) and
carried unanimously Mr. Jeanneret’s proposal for the
tramway.
Mr. Bodel (one of the members for Forbes)
thinks the Government should send the Permanent
Force to Temora to sink for water." Since Mr. B.
made this suggestion in the ’Ouse, be has been fre-
quently invited to call up at the Barracks. Up to the
time of our going to press however, he had not been.
The Bank official who chalked his head and went
to a fancy dress ball disguised as a billiard-cue, was
recently sent to an up-country branch. He tried for a
whole week to secure the services of someone to tune
his piano, but, alas! without success, so he severed his
connection with the Bank, ani returned to Sydney with
a sad heart—and a very large appetite.
A correspondent of the Twopenny Cook, who
signs himself “ A Wearied-out Waverleyite,” asks :
“ Will the Works Department definitely state when the
Waverley line will be ready for passengers—if six months
hence, or six weeks ? then the residents of that locality
would know what arrangements to make.” There’s an
old maxim to the effect that if people don’t ask ques-
tions no falsehoods will be told them.
When Mr. Moodie wrote to the Home Govern-
ment for leave and funds to lead the Adelaide un-
employed to glory, Earl Kimberley replied that Duncan
could have as much leave and glory as he liked, but no
money. The General then disbanded his followers,
nearly all of whom returned to their former quarters—
the willows. This is an airy lodging on the banks of the
Torrens, where the bed clothing is provided by Nature.
Admission is free.
Under the heading of attempted abduction, a
London paper has the following:—“ A gentleman ap-
plied to the magistrates at the Thames Police Court
the other day on behalf of Mr. Wool, residing at North
Bow, for a summons of warrant against a nobleman,
whose name was not given, for attempting to abduct
his wife.” We shall watch the issue in this case with
some interest; though we are ready to wager that his
lordship will claim exemption from punishment on the
ground that he was only wool-gathering.
How these editors love one another! Here is a
clipping from a suburban paper:—“ * Give him an inch
and he’ll take an ell ’ is a well-known adage." Well, give
the literary scorpion of the Croajingolong Bag a one
inch ad. for Is. 6d., and you’ll get an ell, double-column,
displayed. This is one of the secrets of journalism.
Never mind; bump it out old man—bump it out, if by
doing that yon can prolong the agony. Get a new hat,
tie your shoestrings, tell the truth once a fortnight,
give the baker something on account, and the sexton
will respect you. V’lan I
At the Melbourne County Court Mr. Purves was
examining Mademoiselle Charbonnet, regarding Mr.
Alfred Moul’s valse “ Mon Amour.” Counsel inquired
if Mademoiselle thought “My Love” valse was a first-
class composition. Mademoiselle did not. “ Then I
presume," said Mr. Purves, “that your love would be
quite a distinct sort of thing from Mr. Alfred Moul’s
love." Mademoiselle assented vehemently, and gave
the Court very decidedly to understand that Mr. Alfred
Moul’s was the very opposite of her love. Verdict for
the plaintiff. Mademoiselle.
On Cooyal Creek, in the Mudgee district, live
four brothers whose talents are as follows :—lst, cham-
pion sawyer, bullock puncher, and shootist; 2ud,
swearist, fighter, and paling-splitter; 3rd, will reap
wheat with any man in the world; 4th, will ride buck-
jumpers, hunt kangaroos, or play the concertina
against all comers. Hooray for Cooyal Creek 1
Someone (probably the local baker) writes of some
sports as follows to the Macleat Herald: —“Notone
drunken man, not a single quarrel, no angry words, did
I see or hear on the grounds, and a more kind, open-
hearted, friendly body of people I never met with.
I wish you had been there. Mr. Editor, that the Manning
people might have had the benefit of viewing themselves
as seen by the charmed and able descriptive writer who
occupies the Editorial chair of the Macleat Herald.”
Laying on the jam like this is positively in-Dease-ent.
We wonder whether this contributor gets a free paper
—or whether he supplies the “ ably descriptive" writer’s
family with slack-baked quarterns !
Another shock! Commodore Wilson has for-
feited the respect of all honest men. He calls the
Stdnet Daily Telegraph a second-class Sydney news-
paper. If this be ihe case, what avail a 1 our dreams ?
A second-class newspaper! Come, Commodore, this is
rather too tropical. Call it anything but that! Say
that it’s run on rum if you want to libel it, but don’t
call it second-class. And don’t either term it personal
or scurrilous. The proprietary have a holy horror of
saying unkind things. They have set their faces dead
against phillipics—in any other journal. No, the
Teiegraph is not a second-class journal— pour une
bonne raison —it’s third—but no matter.
The London World said in a recent number
that the best thing to stuff turkey with was morel.
All that week people who wanted morel turkey rooted
around in search of it, and there was a considerable
run on the turkey market as well. In its next number
the World gravely announced that it had made a
mistake. Morel was a deadly poison. On reading this
a London paper cynically advises the relations of
the deceased persons to send their undertakers’ bills to
Mr. Edmund Yates; also, all orphaned children who
survived, in consequence of being too young to eat the
turkey. The editor of the World’s remarks on the
situation are not yet to hand. We await them with
lively interest.
The United states mail service employs 60,479
men. mostly postmasters ; the mail routes cover
343,888 miles, and the annual postal expenditure sums
up to $36,000 000. Now, these postmasters are changed
every fresh Presidential election. And yet it one of
our postmasters puts on 75 or 80 of his near relations in
the office during his term, M’Elhone actually makes a
fuss about it. However, Parkessays, “asa people, we
are better off than any other in the world.” Why, we
know a member whe has for years been working to get
his blind aunt into the Telegraph Department, but
without avail. Nor was his success in procuring a
letter-carrier’s billet for a rheumatic father-in-law any
more successful. Call this a free country 1 Bah!
The Twopenny Muffin, in its report of the
Levey-Hart wedding, writes :—“On her right stood her
father and mother resplendent in peacock-blue satin,
embroidered velvet, and brocade; opposite were Mr.
and Mrs. Victor Cohen, the grooms, sponsors, and in
the centre the Rabbi, the Rev. Abraham Davis.” The
long promised revolution in dress then has, at last
taken place. We didn’t think that dear old Mr.
Montague Levey would have gone in for such a complete
innovation. If he’d come out in a black velvet knieker-
bocker suit and silk socks for a start, we should have
applauded his pluck, but now he has gone as far as
peacock satin we think he has overdone it. We
know this report is right, because the Herald is
always correct.
An immigrant from Fatherland, arriving in the
colony without means or friends, found his way to a
certain (Victorian) town, and, rather than let his wife
starve, accepted a menial engagement from a local
clergyman. His merits became recognised, and through
the intervention of a legal gentleman, be became clerk
to a firm of woolbrokers in Melbourne. Starting at once
to commence his duties, he told his wife to get from
the clergyman, on the latter’s return, the balance of
wages due to him. Mrs. accordingly applied to
the clergyman shortly afterwards, and the following
dialogue occurred:—Clergyman : “Your husband ran
away, and is not entitled to his wages." Mrs.
“ No, sir, he did not run away; but, getting an offer of
a respectable situation, he has gone to accept it."
Curate: “ Well, he left without giving me notice, and
that is all I’ll give you" (throwing down half-a-crown)
— —J U you can’t give me the live shillings
due you had better keep the half-crown—you may have
need of it.” '
We have received from Mrs. Marie Mead, of the
Governesses’ Agency, Phillip-street, a letter, in which
that lady encloses a prospectus relative to the founding
of an institute for the reception of governesses from the
country seeking situations—her plan being that the
establishment “should be started by subscribers, all
subscriptions to be refunded at the expiration of a
given period, after that time the institute to be self-
suppor ing." The scheme appears to us feasible, and
should it succeed, the institute will doubtless be a
boon to a large number of ladies whe are at present
exposed to much embarrassment in selecting accom-
modation m the metropolis. In the course of her letter
Mrs. Mead says, “Pray persuade some of the other
editors to take up the cause of governesses.” In reply
to this, we have to state that while we ourselves have
all our sympathies with Mrs. Mead, the proper
person to “persuade” the other editors is one of the
fan- sex—the only “persuader” of which we can boast
at present being an extra-sized glue-knife. If Mrs
Mead, however, considers this would benefit her cause
with the other editors in any way, we shall be happv to
loan her the article.
Since Mr. Melville refused to “ part” his three
guineas subscription to the refreshment room, some
interest has been excited in the minds of the public
with reference to the quantity and quality of the food
provided for legislators, and the price they pay for it
At Parliament House, then, it is possible to distend the
stomach to the utmost for the modest sum of eighteen,
pence. For that sum hon. members of the temperance
persuasion nightly succeed in obtaining a repletion which
is very refreshing to contemplate. In the English House
of Commons the bill of fare is no less moderate. If you
are an M P., you can have a basin of mutton broth for
Bd., a fried sole for Is.; Irish stew is Is. 9d. • rump-
steak pudding is 2s. There is a fresh joint on every
half-hour up to a quarter.past eight, the average price
of which is Is. 9d. In addition to these charges, you
have to pay 6d. for table-money before four, and Is.
after tbat boor. The table-money includes bread beer
potatoes, cheese, &c. Members indulging 1 in pastry
pay fid. extra. It will be thus seen that in payment of
fid. or Is. draught beer can be had ad. lib. We wonder
how that plan would work here. Very well indeed we
should think—ahem!—for certain members.
The London .Referee is a very nice little
paper, and it apparently takes no little interest in The
Bulletin. Well, we are flattered at this, and we on
our side, take no small interest in the Referee. The
writers of that paper are all clever men, and if they all
have one fault, it is that they know it too much. A
clever man is always clever, but sometimes slip-shod
and this is the case with Mr. George R. Simms, the
‘Dagonet’’ of our lively contemporary. In his
“ Mustard and Cress,” George, like Mr Wegg, is fond
of “dropping into poetry." Sometimes he drops into
good verse—sometimes not, although he, at his worst
never sinks to the level of those “ profound explorers
of the bathos, whose lucubrations continually adorn
the columns of the Evening Ghost. In a recent
number of the Referee, “ Dagonet ” is delivered of a
prophecy, from which we extract the following
couplets:—
“ The Tories, too, will howl and rave and curse.
But Gladstone will not be one jot the worse •
Good trade, good harvest, and good sense will reign.
And prove he’s antidote to Beaky's bane.”
Now this is very poor stuff, even were it original. But
it isn t, the Gladstone piece being a deliberate crib
from Barham s Jackdaw of Rheims (we quote from
memory):—
“ And never was heard such a terrible curse.
But yet what gave rise
To no little surprise.
Nobody seemed one penny the worse.”
There it is, you see, as pat as the “ I will ” of the bride
at the marriage ceremony. However, don’t be cast
down, Daggy, old boy; you are by no means the first
distinguished journalist, nor is the Referee the first
newspaper that has been instructed by the Sydney
Bulletin. “Keep your pecker up,” and mind your
hair strokes, and we will try and get “ Pendragon " to
forgive you. Adoo!
A Ball room Sketch :-(See “Social.”)
March. 26, 1881.


The Corporation of Hobart have had a lovely
site for pleasure grounds for many years in Fitzroy
Crescent, without making use of it. They put up a
fence at considerable expense certainly, hut this was
allowed to be taken away piecemeal by anyone who
happened to be short of fuel. Putting up pilings
won’t make a Botanical Garden. The oity fathers will
commence to think of it ten years hence, ten years later
their successors in office will be revelling in the present
participle of “thinking" of it; yet another ten Tears
and they will be calling for plans, and two or three
generations hence an artist sketching this spot will
have for his foreground cows, but he won’t stop to
finish his background of rubbish heaps, as a certain
creek behind him will drive him to pastures new by its
pestilential odours, “ That is the sort of men they
are.”
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taoping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Karl Theodore Staigek, analytical
chemist."—Abvt.
Th e Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Entries for Ballarat races close April Ist.
Canary did a good gallop on Saturday morning.
One out for 173 made a great hole in the required
217 runs.
The V.E.C. lost <£lsoo by the last Autumn
Meeting.
Six entries were received for the Kyneton
Handicap.
Grand Flaneur’s winnings in stakes are a trifle
under £lO,OOO.
Aiblius and Darriwell have been scratched for
the Sydney Cup.
Arthur Gregory had Massie’s luck; he was
missed four times.
Geary hit Tindall over the fence into the? grand-
stand lawn for 5 on Saturday.
Stuart Wearne bowls full-pitchers in other
matches besides intercolonials.
Waxy, after all, was too great a not for the
Orange Jockey Club Handicap.
At the Gatton (Q.) races the Handicap was won
by Theodore with James second.
Power and Solomon have been matched for a
race in light skiffs for £lOO a side.
Twenty-three horses remain in the Menindie
Handicap and twenty in the Cup.
The performances of the representative eight
are but fairly pleasing to the touts.
Many fishing and shooting excursions were made
from Newcastle on St. Patrick’s Day.
Layoock had to train in the English Channel on
account of the frozen state of the river.
Eiley has offered to row either Hosmer or
Warren Smith for £lOO a side, three miles.
A stallion worth ,£3OO was burnt in a stable on
the farm of J. Christie, at Koori, last week.
The Gramanda C. C. beat the Elinsore C. C. on.
Saturday by one innings and 8 runs to spare.
Bogardus and Carver will shoot pigeons for
,£560 a side, near London, in May. 100 birds each.
Last Saturday the Carthona C.C. beat an eleven
of the Thornton C.C. by two wickets and 63 runs.
In a match played at Kiama between the Illa-
warra C. C. and Eiama C. C., the latter won easily.
Very good entries have been received for the
Warmambool Grand National Steeplechase Meeting.
The Eose Hill Bowling Club will have their
“ green” ready for play in the course of a few months.
Mr. George Buckridge comes to Sydney to look
after the Victorian Intercolonial Eight and their boat.
Mr. Baker, proprietor of the Clarence Advo-
cate, was the referee and starter of Bush and Pearce’s
race.
The Lincoln C. C. beat the Pioneer C. C., in a
match played at Moore Park on Saturday last, by 20
tuns.
Eush gave the proceeds of the steamer engaged
by him for the late regatta to the Eocky Mouth Turf
Club.
The lightest man in the eight of Yale University
selected to row against Harvard in next race weighs
1751b5.
The Pleasant Creek meeting appointed for this
month will not take place, owing to the paucity of
entries.
Mr. I. D. Walker declined to play with the
combined Victorian Fifteen against the Australian
Eleven.
The Australian Eleven got the Victorian Fifteen
out for 87, in their first innings, by good fielding and
bowling.
Mr. Daly, the Irish athlete, has made a match
with Edwin Bibby, the English champion, at cateh-as-
you-can.
Mr. A. K. Finlay, the well-known Victorian
sportsman, visits Queensland shortly for the benefit of
his health*
There is nothing further known as to the
poisoners of several greyhounds, the property of Mr.
Fletcher, M.P,
A match was played on Saturday last. Hill End
v. Mudgee, resulting in favour of the latter team with
21 runs to spare.
The match last Saturday between the Young
Australia and Underwood C.C’s. resulted in a draw.
Each side scored 34.
The Newcastle Ironclads have won nine matches
for the Waddy Challenge Cup. One more win will
bring it to Newcastle.
The following are the latest scratchings for the
Sydney Cupßosworth, Warlock, Vril, Prattle,
Elastic, and Lady Straun.
The Hero of Waterloo C.C. played the Parra-
matta Defensives last Saturday. Eesult, a win for the
former. Scores, 35 and 31.
John McMahon, of New York, offers to wrestle
any man in the world, collar and elbow, best two out of
three falls, for £lOO or £2OO.
The match Cambridge v. Alexandra, played
last Saturday on the ground of the latter, resulted in
an easy victory for the visitors.
Pearce made frequent spurts in his race with
Eush, closing upon his opponent each time, but he was
never able to get on even terms.
Twenty-six horses entered for the Walgett Han-
dicap and twenty one for the Namoi Handicap, which
events come off in March 25 and 26.
In the swimming matches at Glenelg (S.A.) on
Saturday, the Handicap Cnampion Eace for the silver
cup was won by Mr. J. B. Muirhead.
The nominations for the Victorian Coursing
Club, Derby and Oiks Stakes have closed, the former
with 59 and the latter with 71 entries.
McDonald won the skiff race, against McMahon,
by about 12 lengths. This was a surprise, as McMahon
had numerous very confident backers.
The Logan and Albert Jockey Club Meeting was
very successful, over 1000 persons being present. The
Eoyal Handicap was won by Centurion.
Aplitt challenges Watson, or any other man, for
£BOO a side, and says he will call himself champion of
Australia if his challenge be not accepted.
Wie result of the racing for the Colac Handicap,
which took place on the 17th inst., was as follows
Bluelight 1, Euclid 2, Western Princess 3.
The North Shore Belmore C.C. and the Balmain
Waratah C.C. met at Balmain last Saturday. The
latter won—scores 87 and 38 respectively.
Seventeen entries have been received for the
Autumn Handicap and nineteen for the Publicans’
Purse at the Murrurrundi Turf Club meeting.
St. Patrick’s Day was celebrated in Adelaide by
a demonstration and a sports’ meeting on the Exhibition
grounds, at which about 6000 people were present.
A boat race for £lO took place in the Newcastle
Harbour on Saturday afternoon between John Sullivan
and William Turner, and was won by the latter.
Pontiff and Martindale did a strong race round
on Saturday morning in 2m. 12-Js. Pontiff seemed to
nave a little more left in him than his companion,
oJJk® Windsor Cricket Club intend holding their
nith annual picnic on the favorite grounds at Tennyson
Mtrch 26. The Imperial Band has been
for dancing.
A sailing match took plaoe at Brisbane (Q.) on
Saturday, between the Belle, Coquette, and Young Joe.
An exciting race terminated in favour of the Belle.
The committee of the Mercantile Rowing Club
announce that they will insist on new towels being
obtained before next season for the use of members.
The Brisbane and Ipswich cricket clubs played
their annual match on Saturday, at the Queen’s Park.
It terminated in a draw, greatly in favour of Brisbane.
Some English clubs think of inviting a team of
Australian cricketers home. Lord Harris is the moving
spirit, and has requested the Melbourne C.C. to select
a team.
A cricket match Narrabri v. Booloarrol came
off last week on the Narrabri cricket ground and
resulted in an easy victory for the Boolcarrol team by
over 100 runs.
A boxing match took place at the Victoria
Theatre, Newcastle, on Saturday night, for £5O, between
Professors West and Smith, and resulted in a victory
for the former.
Very good entries have been received for the
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting on 2nd April;
20 for the hurdles, 24 for the Caulfield Cup, and 11 for
the Steeplechase.
The stewards of the Menindie jockey club have
decided to postpone their annual meeting until Wed-
nesday and Thursday, May 11th and 12th at the request
of owners of horses.
The Croydon C.C. defeated the Albion C.C. on
Saturday last, by 27 runs. The scores were: Croydon
31, Albion 4. The bowling azid fielding on both sides
were exceptionally good.
A race took place at Bnrrowa, on St. Patrick’s
Day, for 150 yards, £lO a-side, between Gaunson, of
Binalong, and O’Hara, of Bnrrowa. Gaunson was the
favourite, and won easily.
W. P. Allen, the premier bat of the Waverley
C.C., secured a “duck-egg” in the match, last Satur-
day, against St. Leonards—the first that he has been
credited with this season.
The return cricket match between the legal
firms of Messrs. Allen and Allen and Messrs. Stephen,
Laurence, and Jaques takes place next Wednesday (30th)
on the Stanmore ground.
The match played on Moore Park last Saturday,
between the Independent C.C. and the Britannia C.C.,
resulted in a win for the former by 4 runs, the scores
feeing 53 and 49 respectively.
At the St. Patrick’s sports on the Dubbo race-
course Nevin won the big handicap with Mozart second
and Lawson third. A handicap was won by Behan's
Gipsy, and Benton’s Dart second.
The Adelaide Rowing Club have been pleased
to deem satisfactory the explanation afforded by Mr.
T. G. Smith in reference to his correspondence with
the New South Wales Bowing Association.
In the match between Lome and Corio, W.
Wightman, of the club first-named, took four wickets
in four successive balls, a catch being declined off the
fifth ball. His average was 8 wickets for 21 runs.
In a match played last week between East Mel-
bourne and fifteen of Brunswick, McShane took all
fourteen wickets for 34 runs, ten being clean bowled.
In the second innings he took five wickets for 15 runs.
The Petersham ground is admitted by the clubs
who go out to play on it to be equal to the Association’s,
the only drawback being the fielding ground, which is
rather limited, owing to the houses going up very near.
Success justifies itself. Those who were the
loudest in denouncing the hardihood of Laycock’s
departure will be the most enthusiastic in welcoming
his return. Le Boi est mart, vivo le Rot. Poor Trickett 1
A boat race took place last week between
Messrs. Moore and Bailey, of the A.S.N. Co. Works,
Pyrmont. But although Moore started a strong favour-
ite, Bailey led round the island, and won very comfort-
ably.
Sapphire, on the strength of the morning gal-
lops, has received some support in doubles with
Flaneur, Wellington, and Pontiff. 100 to 8 Progress
and 100 to 20 Grand Flaneur for the Cup are the ruling
prices.
Jacob Gaudaur, the Canadian, is looked upon by
oarsmen as one of the coming shining lights in rowing
of the season of 1881. He is powerful and scientific in
handling the sculls, and may have good backers next
season.
The committee of the Woolloomooloo Bay
Regatta, finding that there will be more than suf-
ficient to liquidate their liabilities, intend voting a sum
of money to the fund for the widow of the late William
Langford.
Arrangements have been made in Adelaide for a
series of football matches between Carlton (Vic.) Club
and local clubs, to take place in June next. Carltons
pay expenses and receive gate-money; the surplus, if
any, to go to local charities.
A meeting of the Victoria Hopse C. C. took
place on last Monday evening at Bass’ Hotel, Pitt-
street, on the occasion of bidding farewell to Mr.
Townshend previous to his departure for England. A
most enjoyable social evening was spent.
Ulyett’s batting average, for 1880, was 29 runs
per innings, for 21 innings. T. Emmett, 21 runs, 23
innings. Emmett’s bowling average, 17 runs per
wicket, 214 overs. Ulyett, 1 wicket for 44 runs. Both
these professionals played for Yorkshire.
A meeting, at which the Hon. W. J. Clarke has
consented to preside, will to-night be held at Young
and Jackson’s hotel, Melbourne, to consider and
determine what steps should be taken to welcome Elias
C. Laycock, the Sydney sculler, back to Australia.
The Referee, speaking of the Hanlan-Trickett
race, says that “so certain were the Sydney people of
their champion’s success that poems in honour of his
victory had been prepared and printed for distribution."
Will anyone oblige us with a copy of these poems ?
Mr. Risien, for some years secretary of the
Rockhampton Jockey Club, has resigned. Mr. W. J.
Jackson takes his plaoe. By-the bye, the club have at
last decided on building a new grand-stand. Mr. F. H.
Rixon (late of the Northern Argus) prepares the plans.
The Australian Eleven played twenty of the
Ballarat on Thursday lask The local team in their
first inninv s scored 160. The Eleven scored in their first
innings, 93, Blackham making highest score, 35 and
Bonnor and Jarvis 12 each. The match resulted in a
draw.
The following are the members of the Combined
Fifteen in Melbourne Melbourne Club : Tobin, Kelly,
Edwards, Dunn, Coulthard ; East Melbourne Club:
Allee, Elliott, Horan, McShane, Healey ; South
Melbourne Club : Allen, Cooper, Coupar, Rosser,
Minchin.
The results of the Dungog races on the 17th
instant are as follows .—Plying Handicap, Jenny Lind 1,
Amy 2; Galloway Handicap, a walk over for Myrtle;
Hack Race Handicap, Buttercup 1, Flirt 2; All-Comers
Race, Jenny Lind 1, Flirt 2; Forced Handicap, Jenny
Lind 1. Flirt 2.
After a mile had been travelled in the Jockey
Club Handicap, at the Orange Jockey Club meeting,
second day, Mr. Smith’s Waxy cannoned against a post,
and fell on his rider, hurting Nicholson seriously and
crippling himself. Waxy died on Sunday from the
injuries he received.
Austin, the metallician, and Rush, the sculler,
met as pedestrians on St. Patrick’s Day, the latter
giving the former 15 yards out of 150. The betting was
in favour of Rush, but notwithstanding that Austin was
fearfully out of condition, he won the race rather
cleverly by three yards.
On Alderson’s Ground, last Saturday, “ Our
Boys” played a match against a University second
eleven. The match resulted in a draw very much in
favour of the former, who made 139, as against the
University score of 57 with one wicket to fall. The
University played two short.
A very interesting intercolonial (i.e,, three days’)
cricket match was played on the Windsors’ ground on
16th, 17th, and 18th inst., between teams from the
treasury and the account branch of the Survey Depart-
ment. The result was a victory for the Survey team by
15 runs. The features of the game were 'the long-
stopping of Thaekay and the fielding of Usher, both
members of the winning eleven. The scores were —■
Survey, 38 and 47; Treasury, 45 and 25.
An eleven of the Clios beat a Eandwick C.C.
eleven last Saturday, by 87 runs and three wickets to
spare. Scores : Randwiok 41, Olios 128, with three
wickets to fall. For the Olios, J. E. Fewings batted in
fine style, scoring 33 and 20 respectively. Qribble again
bowled well for the winners.
James E. Owens, ex-ohampion collar-and-elbow
wrestler of America, has died “of bronchial trouble.’’
Owens possessed great skill and strength, and won
many prolonged and stubborn contests from the best
wrestlers in the country. He stood sft. 9in., and was
about thirty-three years of age.
The committee of the Cowra Eace Meeting
passed a resolution prior to their races last week that
no gambling of any kind be allowed on the course. The
local paper states that although “ magsmen ” mustered
in great force, they were compelled either to follow an
honest calling or remain passive spectators.
The results of the St. Patrick’s Day races at
Wollongong were as follows: —Maiden Plate; Eclipse 1,
Hotspur and Poverty dead heat. Hack Race: Rose-
bud 1. Municipal Handicap: Empress 1, Eclipse 2,
Lucinda 3. Selling Stakes: Lightfoot 1, Poverty 2.
Flying Handicap: Lucinda 1, Daisy 2, Hotspur 3.
Two races were held on Saturday afternoon
under the auspices of the Sydney Amateur Sailing
Club, one for the 22 feet class, starters, Rosetta, Syren,
5 mins. The Rosetta came in first. The starters for
the 20 feet and upwards class were Adelphi, Lizzie, and
Desdemona, and the race was won by the Adelphi.
The results of the Clare (S.A.) races are as
follows:—Maiden Plate : The Moor 1, Dutchman 2,
Black Bess 3; Clare Cup: Shamrock 1, Aurora 2,
Manntaineer 3; Steeplechase : Lucy 1, Peter 2, White-
foot 3; The Shorts: The Moor I, Dutchman 2, Tocal 3;
Bungaree Stakes : Alethe 1. Mountaineer 2, Barmaid 3
The reshlts of the Liverpool races on St. Patrick’s
day were as follow Flying Handicap: Marquis 1,
Margaret 2, Fireball 3. Galloway Race: Cossack 1,
Cceur-de-Lion 2. Selling Race: Beeswing 1, Captain
Cook 2. Mary vale Handicap: Marquis 1, Margaret 2,
Fireball 3. Hack Race: Albion 1, Mary Anne 2,
Bumble 3.
The results of the Gundagai Jockey Club races
on the 17th instant were as follow:—Maiden Plate:
Printer 1, Alexander 2, Drummer Girl 3. Prince of
Wales Stakes: Tall Boy 1, Feathertop 2, Chance 3.
Gundagai Jockey Club Handicap: Taurus 1, Robin 2,
Fisherman 3. Mile Handicap; Printer 1, Sampson 2,
Lady Livingston 3.
An intercolonial cricket match, between Victoria
and South Australia, will come off on the Ist, 2nd, and
4th of April next. The following are selected to repre-
sent South Australia: Messrs. Jarvis, Bullough, Noel,
King, Q. Gillen, Bemman, J. E. Gooden, Kulll, W.
Sleight, Hide ; emergencies: Messrs. Quilty, Richards,
Churgaland, and Botten.
Following are the results of the Kyneton Eaces,
which took place on the 17th:—Hurdles, Monitor 1,
President 2. Kyneton Handicap, Diamond 1, Cynic 2,
Wizard 3. Time, 2m. 40s. Steeplechase, Helmet 1,
Turpin 2, General 3. Lanriston Handicap, Diamond 1,
ABC 2, Mulatto 3. District Handicap, Emerald 1.
Maiden Stakes, Emerald 1.
The ponies and their juvenile riders (aged from
ten years downwards) caused much amusement at the
Lnverell show. A little girl of four, daughter of a local
medico, handled her steed wonderfully well, while her
elder sister, aged seven, evidenced the possession of
style and hands not often owned by ladies who are
considered good horsewomen.
The following are the results of St. Patrick’s
Day races at OrangeStewards’ Purse: Velox 1.
Qladiateur 2, Jane Avenal 3. Public Auction Stakes :
Speculation 1, Wagga 2, Trump 3. Champagne Stakes :
Lottie 1, Mavoumeen 2, Ethel 3. Jockey Club Handi-
cap; Nancy Lee 1, Major 2, Saunterer 3. Hack Race :
Maske 1. Welter Race: Cracker 1.
Courtney, in a recent interview with a Seneca
Falls reporter, said he would like to arrange a sculling
match with Hanlan for the next Fourth of July, no
money to be staked. He says that when money is
wagered, charges of selling out will be made by the
losing side. He desires to make the race for the pur-
pose of testing who is the “ best man."
The results of the second day’s racing of the
Orange Jockey Club, are as follow'Three-year-old
Handicap, Partner, 1; Mavoumeen, 2 ; Lottie, 3.
Prince of Wales Stakes, Rosebud, 1; Wagga Wagga, 2;
Cracker, 3. Flying Handicap, Voil, 1; Speculation, 2;
Brilliant, 3. Jockey Club Handicap, Nancy Lee, 1;
Saunterer, 2 j Waxy, 3. Time, 3min 38sec.
Following are the results of the second day’s
racing at Narr^bri:—Victoria Hotel Handicap, Game-
cock, 1; Mirabean, 2 ; Creeper, 3. Hack Race, Planet,
1; Newington, 2; Bracelet, 3. Trial Stakes, Haw-
thornden, 1; Slim Jim, 2, Creeper, 3. Plying Handi-
cap, Gamecock, 1; Vanity, 2; Sunbeam, 3. Forced
Handicap, Vanity, 1; Hawthornden, 2; Gamecock 3.
The Australian Eleven have again received their
“ gruel." In Melbourne this time. This is a sorry end
to a triumphant tour. We understand that the
Eleven left the M.G.C. ground with a mournful gait.
Was this purely owing to their defeat, or to the fact
that 1 here was something mournful about the gate
money ? The attendance was, throughout, very small.
The results of the second day’s racing of the
Gundagai Jockey Club meeting were as follow.-—Nur-
sery Handicap: Miss Wye 1, Alexander 2, Lady Living-
stone 3. All-aged Stakes : Drummer Girl 1, Chance 2.
St. Patrick’s Plate: Feathertop 1, Printer 2, Pardon 3.
Ladies’ Purse: Simpson 1, Tall Boy 2, Printer 3.
Forced Handicap: Fisherman 1, Feathertop 2. Slim
Jim 3.
The results of the second day’s racing of the
Hay Jockey Club meeting were as follow: Hay
Antumn Handicap: Nightmare 1, Wee Jim and Phan-
tom a dead heat. Daley’s Plate: Marchioness 1, Red
Rover 2, Supple Jack 3. Mnmimbidgee Handicap:
Pimpama 1, Nightmare 2, Hector 3. Jumping Race:
Merang 1, No Fault 2. Last Spurt: Pimpama 1,
Crcesua 2, Phantom 3.
The results of the Wagga Wagga races, held on
the 17th, were as follow:—Maiden Plate: Cassandra 1,
George Eliot 2, Christabel 3. St. Patrick’s Handicap :
Dictator 1, Johnny Grapaud 2, Young Woodlands 3.
Hack Race: Glenfield 1, Rosebank 2. Pony Race :
Gazelle 1, Countess 2, Jewess 3. Plying Handicap-
Johnny Crapaud 1, The Monk 2, Young Woodlands 3.
Forced Handicap: Johnny Crapaud 1.
More “intelligence” from America. Says the
N.Y. Illustrated Times of January 29: “ Champion-
belts are not the easiest things to wear in this world.
If the winner of one unfortunately loses in his next
match, half the men who bet on the champion accuse
him of selling out. In Australia, a mob destroyed
Trickett’s property on hearing that Hanlan had defeated
him.” We go from home to hear news.
Following are the best performances of Mr. L.
B. Meyers, who has been selected by the Manhattan
Athletic Club to represent America at the amateur
championship meeting in England next July
10s.; 220yds., 22|5.; 250yds., 26}5.; 300vds., 34 l-ss. :
320yds., 35|5.; 350yds., 395.; 440yds., 49 1-5 s. ; 500yds.,
585.; 600yds., Im. 14?,5.; 660yds., Im. 225.; 800yds., Im.
s&}s. ; 1000yds., 2m. 18ta.; 1320yd5., 3m. ISJs.; 1 mile,
4m. 29}s.
In the match Petersham v. Surry United, G.
Seale and P. Marr obtained the same fine bowling
average—s wickets for 6 runs. The match resulted in a
very easy victory for the suburban club by two wickets
and 117 runs. For the P.C.C., the batting of A. Love-
ridge (64) and E. Seale (40) was greatly admired, and it
was not until these two batsmen had put together 86
runs that they were parted. G. Seale (19) and P. Marr
(10) also showed fine form.
On Saturday afternoon the Sydney Volunteer
Artillery Rifle Club shot'a match against No. 5 Battery
Volunteer Artillery, stationed at Newcastle, on the
Sydney Rifle Ranges, Lieut. Kyngdon being in charge
of the local team and Lieut. Aggar in charge of the
visitors. The conditions were ten men aside, and seven
shots at 300, 500, and 600 yards. The Newcastle team
scored 472 and the local team 562, leaving a majority
for the Sydney team of 90 points.
Canterbury beat Otago in the annual inter-pro-
vincial four-oared race, rowed recently on the Taieri
River, Otago. The Otago crew, who had won the first
contest easily at Canterbury, were the favourites, the
visitors not being considered as good as the four de-
feated in the first race. Canterbury led the whole way,
and won easily by two lengths. The steering of the
Otago coxswain was bad. The winners rowed in a boat
baUt by Salter, with a 24in. slide, and the losers used a
Clasper boat, with a 20iu. slide.
The Hay Jockey Club annual races were held on
the 17th instant. The weather was fine, bat the attend*
ance was very small. The racing was good, though the
fields were limited. Eesults were as follow:—Maiden
Plate: Peeping Tom 1, Monk 2, Pirate 3. Prince of
Wales Stakes (selling race): Why-not 1, Creeping Jane
2, Savauaka 3. Hay Jockey Club Handicap: Dollar 1,
Marchioness 2, Phantom 3; time, 2m. 295. Hack Baoe:
Midshipman 1, Pop 2, Quamby 3. Bailway Stakes:
Wee Jim 1, Nightmare 2, Pimpamper 3.
The Bathurst sports on St. Patrick’s Day were
well attended. The principal event was the St. Pat-
rick's Handicap at three distances, 100 yards, 125
yards, and 150 yards. Thirteen started, and the
contest resulted in favour of Griffiths, a Sydney man,
who obtains the first prize of £25; Piper, a Bathurst
man, being second, £10; Minahan, also a local
man, third, £4; and O’Connor fourth, £l. The walking
match was won by Ferguson, a local man, who defeated
amongst others a Sydney pedestrian named M'Dermott.
The results of the race meeting of the New-
castle Jockey Club, which was held ou the 17th instant,
are as follow :—Collins’ Flower Girl beat Hamlin’s
Kathleen Mavourneen easily in a match for £2o.’
Gale’s Seven Out beat Sievert’s Unknown in a match
for £lO, after a good race. A handicap sweep of 10s.,
with £5 added, was won by Gasworks, Moonlight
second. The next race for a silver cup, valued at £lO,
was won by Guyleen, Baglan second. Gasworks third.
The final event, a hack race, was won by Denny Blake,
Shamrock second.
The race between Michael Bush and H. Pearce
came off last Thursday, bn the four-mile course at
Kocky Mouth, and resulted in a most nnmistakeable
victory for Kush Pearce was the favourite at the
start, at even money, and he was largely backed also to
lead from the start to the finish, Pearce was in great
condition, but Bush’s form was not considered as good
as it ought to be for so great a contest. Both men
pulled in capital style, and it was a grand race from
the jump. Bush took the lead, was never headed,
and won the race by a length and a-half, in 26min.
50sec.
The Victorian rowing representatives will leave
Melbourne on the 25th instant, overland for Sydney, It
is likely they will have to take their quarters in town,
as great difficulty has been already experienced in en-
deavouring to obtain for them snltable|accommodatiou
near the river. The crew will consist of Messrs. Irvine,
Tuckett, and J, Booth, who were here in 1879, and
Messrs. Upward, Hopkius, B. Booth, E. Brown, Hodges,
and Hughes. Mr. J. A. Levey, hoa. sec. of the Vic-
torian Association, will accompany the crew. The N.
S. Wales representatives are practising daily, and on
Saturday next a steamer will convey members of the
Association and of the Press up the river, when the
form of the respective crews may be compared.
The first elevens of the Newington College and
Sydney Grammar School met, for the third time this
season, on the Staumore ground last week. The match
resulted in a win on the first innings by the Newington
| boys by 17 runs. The Sydney Grammar School mode
41 in the first innings, as against 62 made by the New-
ington College. In the second innings, the Grammar
School was credited with 90, leaving the Newington
College 82 to make to win, which they probably would
have done, only two wickets having been lost for 46
runs when time was called. The principal scorers for
the Newington College were W. Hill, 23 and 15, Murray,
17, Cleeve, 12; and for the Grammar School Thompson,
21, Payten, 14, Page, 12, Bloomfield, 10, Hayes (not
out), 10.
The match Albert C.C. v. Carlton C.C. was
continued 1 on Saturday last on the Association Ground.
The Carltons having obtained 216 runs in their first
innings, it was confidently anticipated that the premier
club would this time sustain a defeat, but the Alberts
went in for tall scoring, and did the trick with the
assistance of a few of the butterflngered members, or
“slight” men of the Carlton C.C. Massie played a
fine batting innings for 97, and A. H. Gregory was
equally as brilliant in his play for 78 runs. Dave
played, as usual, a safe and" punishing innings for 53,
and Moses played well for 17—the total arrived at
being 272 runs, the match being’thus win by 5fS runs.
The Carltons went to the wickets until time was called.
Geary playing a fine innings for 21 not out.
Some weeks ago, Sir John Astley issued a
challenge, offering to wager £lO,OOO that he could name
two English pedestrians who could defeat any two men
in America in a six-day go-as-you-please race, and heel-
and-toe walking. He named Charles Eowell as his man
for the go-as-you-please match, and Henry Vaughan for
the heel-and-toe contest. The challenge has been
accepted by Daniel O’Leary, who has forwarded a draft
for £lOOO to the editor of the London Sporting Life to
cover the stakes deposited by Sir John Astley. O’Leary
named himself as his contestant in the heel-and-toe
walking match with Vaughan, reserving the right to
select from the contestants for the O'Leary International
Belt, who will start on the 24th inst., the man whom he
considers the best fitted to match against Eowell.
The outrigger races for a prize presented by
Mr. H. Bellet, of the Lillie Denham(s) came off on
Saturday afternoon on the Lane Cove Biver, distance
one and a-half mile. The first heat was between J. M.
Fitzgerald, F. Ives, and T. Johnson. Ives led most of
the way, but was unfortunately capsized, Fitzgerald
therefore having all the best of it. The second heat
was between H. Loekrey, J. M'Farlane, and W. Lee,
The men got off at a sharp pace. M‘Far lane and Lee
fouled, and gave Loekrey a great advantage. M'Far-
lane gave chase, and eventually rowed his leader down.
The final heat was then between Fitzgerald and M'Far-
lane. Fitzgerald took the lead until a foul resulted.
Getting clear they rowed level for a mile, when another
foul occurred, and while locked together the men kept
sculling on; M'Farlane won by two lengths. Fitz-
gerald entered a protest and the umpire sustained it on
the ground that M'Farlane had gone out of his own
water.
The match between the Australian Eleven and
fifteen selected from the Melbourne, South Melbourne,
and East Melbourne Clubs was terminated on Monday,
and resulted in a victory for the Fifteen by 71 runs.
This was owing to the magnificent stand made by
them in their second innings, and though during
the second innings of the Eleven the result seemed
doubtful, the Fifteen, by their splendid bowling and
fielding, managed at the close to bring down the aver-
age made by the first five wickets of the Eleven. The
scores were: Fifteen, first innings, 87, second, 296,
total 383 ; Eleven, first innings, 136, second 176, total
312. The principal scorers were:—For the Fifteen :
M'Shane 65, Kelly 46, Allen 41 and 30, Eosser 35,
Edwards 31, Horan 14, Tobin 20; for the Eleven;
Groube, not out, 70, Murdoch, not out, 57, Jarvis 42
and 22. Spofforth, Palmer, Boyle, M’Shane, and
Edwards were fairly successful in their bowling, though
failing to obtain good averages. Coulthard succeeded •
in getting two wickets for 9 runs in the second
innings. This is the last match of the present Aus-
tralian Eleven, and in giving them a farewell notice it
must be said that they have done much for Australian
reputation in other ways than by cricket, and that they
therefore deserve well of their countrymen. The result
of the late match, and that of the match with the
Combined Eleven on the Association Ground, are con-
vincing proof of the fact that the Eleven did not re-
present the full strength of Australian cricket.


Tailors, Drapers
Thomps on a n
' DENISON HOUi
358, 3bo, 362 George-
OPENINQ NEW G<
. for
WINTER SEASC
EVEEY DAY DURING TP
FIRST GENERAL £
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSI
FOE THE WINTER £
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE CAMB
DOVER HOMESPUN INDKI
ELASTIC BIEGE A\GO
KA'GHER CASHMERE JER-E
STOCKINGETTE VALPj
AND A LARGE ASSORTME.
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY. — 1
cases of very
ERY, someth!
handsome, dire
bouses in Lond
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR
SILK. Rich Vi
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5-i 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES, i
SILKS, in a var
BLaCK SATIN
inches wide, 3;
6s ltd, 7s 6i. 1
worn, and etr<
for wear, and fi
BLACK VKLVE
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard staj
BLAIK SATIN;
inches and 24
3s lid. 4s 6d,
are light and s<
under n«ual
SILK VELVE
eveiy shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MENT of al
LACES in eve
imitation, Emb
Ruffling Modi
Cuffs, Coll are
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace 1
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS w<
FROM DRESS
he no decep'
washed. Lad
Sheetings good
mates Prices
to Is lid ; 80-ii
inch, Is 6d to 2
to 3s. Americi
& Horrocks’ Cj
QUILTS, from
prices. Color
QUILTS, 2 J la
COVERS it all
the yard, 27 uni
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our stndy
this class of 1
character. B>
year after year
of PIRST-CLAI
are now showii
ment of of DA
NAPKINS, hot
Damask. The*
every size, and
for cheapness
colonv. We c
MASK CLOTI
425; 58NAPK
3-4 NAPKINS
29s 6d; DAI
round or square
DAMASK 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 2
SHEETINGS
PILLOW lin:
wide ; WH I
TOWELS, fron
cord ng t"> size
ISH TOWELS,
Business Announc
I_x.bgal.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
and
MACQUAEIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter. Notary '
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has coi
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
MAC
PORTRAIT PAD
225 BO HERE STREET, WOO
VICTORIA VAENISI
W.
ALEX. BORTHW
OIL AND COLOR MEI
, Importer of Paperht
Oils, Colors, Var
White Lead, Glass, I
Marble and Enamelled Slate
Fenders, Tiles, and C
Room and Picture-Frame
281 (Late 273), GEQEGE-STB]
gANDEE LAZAEU
General Importer
AMERICAN HARD
CHINA, GLASS, EART]
E. P. WARE, CUT!
STATIONERY, CLOCKS.
BERLIN WOO]
AND FANCY G(
INDENTS EXECUTED L0 1
TORE STEEE’
G. C H U R C
* IMPORTER AND MANU
OF
COFFEE, PEPPER, I
• AND
SAUSAGE SEE
147 YORK ST]
Q. AND S. PI
SAW MILLS AND TIM]
16 Eeskine Stbe
Every description of Foreign aj
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at
QHEAPEST AND BES 1
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA'!
HAY STREET, HATM
TEA, Is per Ih
Other articles equally che
Goed packed and delivered free
City and Suburbs daily.
"
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LI
WITH.
PERMEWA
Tailors, Drapers
D
I AYID JONES AND
ORIENT CLOTHE
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summi
reliable fabrics, fashionably ci
finished in the best manner.
DAYID JONES AND
Direct special attention to their it
made clothing for the Spring and
being unequalled in style, qua
whole of their stock having be
pressly to meet the requlremer
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business si
Gentlemen’s Promenade
, Gentlemen’s Travelling t
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
D
.AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits
Comprising Cot
and Trousers, i
favourite coloi
cut and finishi
best manner-
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Bac Suits,
The latest ehap
ful and dura
for business 8
nary wear.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits,
Iln light Homes]
thin Cheviots i
nockburns, foi
and Summer we
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Sac Suits,
/In Choice
j Tweeds, exoe
1 general wear,
I checks and mi
D
AVID JONES AiND
Orient
Sac Suits
("Specially Ligl
| i-urable, the i
-j having beer
I shrunk befor
f made up.
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Walking Suits.
■•I
fin Superior
Tweeds, cut
latest style
finished the i
\ oriLrjd cloth!
D
AVID JONES AND
Orient
Berg Suits.
/Beautifully li|
Texture perm
") colour ana vi
V. able in wear.
D
AVID JONES AND
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
fSpecial attentio
vited to our
Clothing, as
the best va
most perfect
and flush pr
I. in the colony.
fin Superior Ta
i Flannel, th
j shrunk.
{China Silk Coats
Military Duck Oc
Fine blacS Alpac
All Wool Merino
Superior Serge C
Black and Blue £
Gentlemen’s fin fine Black Alj
Single Breasted ) In Super Black M
Walking ) In Blue Sergeretl
Coats. (jn Black Sergere
Gentlemen’s
8.8. Frock
Coats.
'ln fine Black Alp
In Black Merino
Super Sfergere
Gentlemen’s f Super White Due
Tailors, Draper
COUNTRY ORDERS promp
carefully executed. Send P. l
a choice selection of Fancy and Ge
the Departments—New Dres-s Mf
laines. Serges, Cashmeres, Satin C
FIRST CLASS DRESS
AUTUMN AND WINTER
Our own Manufactured Glo
2 Buttons 4 Buttons
2s 9d 3s 9d
Pasted 3s. 4s
Cnt paper patterns, all gam
JOHN B. YOUD
656 GEORGE ST.
(Just below Divert*
MERICAN CUT PAP
MADAME DEMC
Perfect Httini
Newest styles every mail from !
Full directions and illustrations vs
MADAME DGMORBST’S publ
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What t
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gra
MISS LOUISA I
87 King Street, Sydney (two do
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-st
M XT IS A WELL-KNOW
JL for Household or Patnil
Hordern’s” Old-E.itablisbed and
porinm on the Brick Held Hill has
for Value, Variety, or Exteift o' St
NEW and BEAUTIFUL OCX
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES A
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx;
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
STRANGE BUI
HORDERk
Are Selling CARPETS
First-class good CARPETS
• Made up and Sewn in G
At a trifling char
CALL AND SEE T
PITT-STREET, PITT-
All the Novelties of 1
vxvxxxXXXXXXXXXXXXXXI
N
OTICE TO TH
SUITS TO ORDEI
R. C. HAC
FASHION ABl
TAILORING ESTAB
27 KING STRE
Where you can be fitted with the i
cheapest Outfit in the
Note the Extraordinary Cheap Pi
from the best of Scotch Tweeds, in
tern, to .Order, 5
Homespun Tweed Suits, tc
Canadian Tweed Suits, to (
Banuockurn Tweed Suits, 1
Cheviot Tweed Suits, to O
Trousers t o Order Trousers to Ord
16s 6d 16s 6d
West of England Tweed Trousers, t
Canadian Twer d Trousers, to Ordei
Bliss's Tweed Trousers, to Order, 1
Homespun Tweed trousers, toOrd<
N B. —Gentlemen shonld inspect
Scotch Suitings, as the above pricei
30s are usually made in the City at
Note the Addree
127 KING ST


Hotels, &c.
T
HE COMPAGNONI PALACE
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen's RESTAURANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN,
The Company have secured the services of Mens,
Marriette, late chAf de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required tor private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL P ACEH AM,
Manager,
June 30, 1880.
COMPAGNONI PALAoE CAPE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER SMEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONT’S,.opposite Victoria Theatre,
— ♦
WEHLOW’S WOOLPArfCK HOTEL,
PARRAMATTA.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR FAMILIES.
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the very beat brands, at
moderate charges. First-class Bowling Green for the
use of those whe are fond of recreation.
IJIO ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SOUTH WALES,
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
la in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. Q. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal.
CE
u t.
OT
w
ES
MU
T.trl
mi
If"
ft
;?ii
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS.
N,
jp R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS.
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wink 4 np Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY,
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &e.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayroarket.
M URPHY AND
IMPORTERS OF
SON,
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperbangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhanginge
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, 4c., &o.
White and Red Lead
Turpentine
Raw and Boiled Oils
Brush ware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, 40.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT. READY FOR USB, ANY SHAW
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, 01% wr
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET
WAREHOUSE,
39 and SO. GEORGE JSTREBT WEST,
Hotels, &c.
o LD
EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOE BOARDERS.
Plange and Shower Baths, Hano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
o
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYaRD square,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. TANNER, Proprietor,
(Lath Club House Hotel, Obahge.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS. AND
BEERS.
Hotels, &c.
F O S T E R.
I
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY AIL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MEEC HANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
i
the PERFECTION
ofWHISKY^S^
UNRIVALLED for
■fiWiTODDY.
SOLE PROPRIETORS
GREENLEES^
3I.CCM H ERCIALSTREtI LONDON!
OISTILIERIES.ARGYLESHiRE.
It is of the utlnost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of At
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
C. W A L K E E
(Late COLLINS & EOACH),
iERATED WATERS, GINGER BEER,
and
J.
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMAEKET.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
R.
H E L L Y E
ELECTEO-PLATEK AND GILDEE,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
R,
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate,
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
B
OOTS!
BOOTS!!
BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BEICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
fjg" NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. HILDER,
070 GEOEGE STREET,
Brickfield HiH.
Hotels, &c.
C
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
A SN. CO.’S WHAEF.
Sydney, March 1, 1881.
I have much pleasare to inform my CONSTITUENTS
and the GENERAL PUBLIC that, in consequence of
the large INCREASE in my BUSINESS, I have ar-
ranged with my brother, Mr. WM WILKINSON (late
manager of the KIRK TON VINEYARD), to act in
conjunction with Mr. MURRAY, in SYDNEY.
I am now in a position to largely EXTEND my
VINEYARD, and devote the necessary time to the
growth and maturing of my WINES. .
ADDITIONAL CELLARS
have been engaged in a central .position, and will
SHORTLY be ANNOUNCED.
1 am pleased to aeaiu have an opportunity of thank,
ing my NUMEROUS FRIENDS and SUPPORTERS
for their very LIBERAL SUPPORT during my BUSI-
NESS CAREER in Sydney. _
JOHN A. WILKINSON.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Suppx.ua> in ant Quantity,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office —3 WYNYARD STREET.
T
IHE GENUINE ' EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
• Distinguished by the Label
■J&.
&
u&c/Ca
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts.
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prinoe of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1868; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Eepub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
None*.—The Public are cautioned against numerous
Smrioua IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
olognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will be pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the la w.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JQlichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BEP
“I have analysed an Original Jacket of The
Tabping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Unncolonred Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staiger,
“ Analytical Chemist.’'
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE, Oxford-street.
P. BOWES, Darling Point,
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-street.
R. S. TIGHE, Brickfield Hill.
THOS. E. GEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J, HAOBKTY, Old South Head Road, Paddington.
iOBBRT BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
684 GEORGE'STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Covhtbt Obdhes Rbuhttb Pbomfi Aansrioa.
The Celebrated
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStiniulant
WORDS'
The Name of M. MOSS 4 OO.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPEE TEEE G I E.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may bow be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so larfreW consumed.
&
rd
2
c*2
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent— tnAS. HAT H,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT isnot the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has uio same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents, -
RAO!
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
S
This favourite brand of
T O U
li selected with great care from the beat of the brew-
htj* of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
And CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot bo excelled.
To bo Procured Everywhere.
J E CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The London Comedy Company are doing well at
Adelaide.
The Parisians are soon to hear “ Pinafore ” for
the first time.
The latest Loft don comic song is “ I’ll make it
right with yonr ma.”
Benj. Clarke, “the Australian silvery tenor,’’
is still doing America with success.
Chalet, the ventriloquist, and St. Clair, late of
the Loftus troupe, are in California.
It 'is rumoured in musical circles that Signor
Giorza takes a trip to Europe in June.
Paper lace, which can be procured at a nominal
cost, is much used by the Parisian actresses.
Who discovered Australia? Capt. Cook. For
whom did he discover it ? Jimmy Williamson.
Mrs. Scott-Siddons was thrown from a sleigh
and seriously injured, at Youngstown,Ohio, Jan. 9th.
The Bnrwood Dramatic Society perform “ Time
Tries All” and “The Area Belle” this (Thursday)
evening.
Epitaph on Sothern. —His death was the result
of a style of life which took every pleasure without
counting the cost.
D’Orsay Ogden’s benefit at Gympie was very
numerously attended. The “Streets of New York”
was the piece presented.
At Melbourne Op'era House “ La Fille du Tam-
bour-Major” is having an unprecedented run. There is
no diminution in the attendance.
A well-known tight-rope man was charged at
Mudgee, on Tuesday last, with having stolen gravel
and wash-dirt. The case was dismissed.
Jersey shirts, which fit like wax, tight blue
satin trunks and fleshings, make up the costume of the
chorus girls in the last act of “ Olivette."
“ Pinafore ” at Gympie was a great success.
The local papers “enthuse” over the acting of Mr.
Edwin Kelly and Miss Emma Wangenheim.
Leon’s circus has met with great success at
Hay. Burton’s circus was billed to perform in the
local municipal reserve, on 17th, 18tb, and 19th inst.
Mr. Fred. Marshall does not again join the
London Comedy Company. The talented comedian
will play a short season in Melbourne, and then depart
for England.
Mdlle. Sara. Bernhardt’s first week in Chicago
produced 2469 dollars for six performances. Her 63
American performances have produced altogether
226,119 dollars.
Edwin Booth is said to possess a portrait of his
first wife, which is kept entwined in flowers by his pre-
sent wife, and under it is written, “ From Mary
earth to Mary in heaven.” How nice!
The Lynch Family of bellringers and English
combination troupe, who left Melbourne on the 2nd
inst., on a lengthy overland route to Queensland, axe
now playing in the Goulburn Valley district.
London Truth says : —“ Miss Clara Morris,
the American star, is expected to visit London in the
course of the present year. From all that I hear, she
is the finest emotional actress now living.”
Walter Reynolds has purchased the right
from J. C. Williamson of representing “ Juvenile
Pinafore” in New Zealand, and has arranged with the
Pollard Family, of Launceston, for its performance.
Here is a riddle. Spell over it carefully. When
is Signor Verdi, in the “ Pirates of Penzance,” like
M’Beath’s Great Hall, had it been erected P When he
trembles in his base. Not that he ever does, however.
The plot of a new farce is that a policeman has
fallen heir to £60,000, and every female cook on his beat
wants him to keep his promise at oace, and he wonders
how he’s going to avoid about fifty breach of promise
suits.
Cole’s big circus and managerie continues to
draw big houses “ all along the line." It will open in
Sydney on sth April, for a season of twelve days only.
The site selected for the mammoth tents is Belmore
Park.
The Bandmann season at Dunedin was the most
successful that has been known in that city for 12 or 14
years. On the benefit nights—Herr Baudmanu’s and
Mr. Reynolds' the takings were considerably over
three figures.
Mr. and Mrs. Morton Tavares have been play-
ing at Rockhampton to crowded houses. Among the
pieces presented were, “ Cut off with a Shilling," “ The
Comical Countess," “ Husband and Wife," and “ The
School for Scandal.”
Marie Roze says that of the great singers of
to-day, not one is Italian. English, she thinks, will be
the medium for the opera of the future. Christine
Nillsson* believes so, too. Patti prefers singing in
English before on English audience.
Signora Palmieri Ortori, sister of the well-
known violinist, Signor Eroole Ortori, will shortly
make her appearance in Australia. The lady is an
accomplished violinists, and is at present in India with
her husband, a violincellist of note.
Bandmann gives free readings to the New Zea-
land school children on his tour. It is thought that
the young idea will thus learn the proper pronunciation
of Shakespeare. “ Now is der vinter ov our dishgontent
made glorious Boomer by dee soon ov Yorick."
Mme. Albani, who retired from the operatic
stage at the age of 36, in order, as she said, that the
public should not witness the decline of her 'powers,
was recently induced to reappear in Paris, when she as-
tonished even the critics by the freshness of her voice
and her splendid vocalisation.
Mdlle. Charbonnet obtained a verdict of
recently against a Victorian music-seller for breach of
contract. The defence unavailingly set up consisted of
the allegation that Mdlle. had wilfully played badly a
piece written by Mr. Alfred Moul, with whom, it was
stated, she was not on the best of terms. •
Mr. Cooke, the advance press and business
agent for Cole’s great circus and menagerie, having
successfully arranged all the business of the Australian
tour, has left for San Francisco per mail steamer.
Mr. Cooke will in all probability return at no distant
date to the colonies,, with some other American at-
tractions.
“Fatinitza” is causing some difficulty in Mel-
bourne. Should it be played at the Novelty, Mr.
Musgrove intends proceeding against each individual
member of the company. In that event, Mr. Aarons
will proceed against each individual member of Mr.
Musgrove’s company for performing in an unlicensed
theatre. Diamond cut diamond.
Professor William Miller performed at the
Queen’s Theatre, the other night, for Mr. Leston’s
benefit. Some herculean feats of strength with heavy
dumb-bells (weighing from 701 b. to 1301 b.) were gone
through, the Professor’s splendid physique showing to
fine advantage. Professor D’Harcourt on the same
occasion illustrated the Indian club exercise in a very
graceful manner.
Actors, if they live carefully, make as old bones
as anyone else. Benjamin Webster is over eighty, and
still vigorous ; Buckstone died at about the same age;
Murdock is still living and hale; Charles Matthews
was, and John Gilbert is, over seventy; Creswick and
Barry Sullivan are near that; Mrs Keeley is seventy-
three ; and Marie Wilkin and Mme. Mitchell are both
septuagenarians.
An accident occurred to Cole’s circus while
en route from Goulburn to Parramatta. The den con-
taining the performing lions proved to be somewhat
higher than one of the bridges, and as a con-
sequence it was badly damaged. Fortunately all danger
w.is soon removed, the released lions being quickly
secured by Mr. Conklin, their trainer, but repairs
eould not be made in time to present his “ pets ” at
Parramatta.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Yoa have all seen a rainbow, of course. Well,
a rainbow is a very pretty thing with its wondrous curve
that is never “ out of drawing,’’ and its marvellous
blending of prismatic colours that no painter can re-
produce. But with all its beauties one gets as weary
of a rainbow after five minutes as Hvpollyta did of
Starveling's moon. As an optical bonne bouche —as a
picturesque phenomenon the arc- en-ciel is unsurpassable;
but being chiefly spectacular in its attractions, the food
it affords for the mind is extremely limited. And it is
thus with Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan’s latest Onera
“ The Pirates of Penzance,” as presented here. This
S reduction, instead of being an atmospheric is a
ramatic rainbow, and as such it becomes after a time a
little wearisome to the (esthetic critic. The dialogue is
very clever in some - parts and very dull in others, and
the songs, with the exception of the triple-rhyming,
“ I’m the model of a modem Major-General,” are in-
ferior both to those of “ Pinafore," and “ The
Sorcerer."
The cast comprises ten principals—the sexes
being equal, altho’ so far as the "super” element is
concerned the ladies outnumber the gentlemen by two
to one. The Pirate King is played by Mr. Verdi; 1
Frederic (the apprentice, whose time has expired—as he
thinks) is Mr. Armes Beaumont; Major-General Stanley
(the father of the maidens), Mr. James A.
South; Sergeant of Police, Mr. J. C. Williamson;
Samuel (the Pirate King’s Lieutenant) Mr. T. Bergin.
Of the ladies Miss Josephine Deakin plays Mabel; Miss
Cora Qwynne (lovely name for a novel!) Edith; Miss
Fanny Liddiard (of whom more anon) Kate; Miss
Nelly Playfair (another melting cognomen!) Isabel;
and Miss Acton Blair, Ruth, the “ piratical maid-of-all
work.” It is not pleasant work copying from the pro-
gramme, but we do so cheerfully, simply because we
wish to give a slight analysis of the cast. In the in-
terests of the public we would shirk no labour; for is
not the critic, like Frederic himself, “ the slave of
duty ?”
• » •
In the foregoing cast it will be seen that there
are excellent performers, and high-class singers.
"Well," at once cries the uninitiated—“ what more can
the public want ? ” To this we reply—not much more,
but a little. Now, nearly all the people whose names
we have quoted are clever people, yet curious enough to
state, the distribution critically viewed, is funnily sug-
gestive of the square pegs and the round boles of the
time-worn adage. Briefly, the case is this; Those who
can act, and act very well, can’t sing; and those who
can sing, and sing very well, can’t act. There are
certain exceptions, of course, but even the excepted
eases lie with the subordinates.
• * *
The house was crowded. So much so, that in
the stalls the spectators overflowed into the orchestra,
thus seriously inconveniencing the “ outside ” violins,
and causing the flageolets to use language of an
unreportable nature. (It may be remarked, en passant,
that there is a performer on-the fiddle in the orchestra
who is the positive presentment of Mr Berry. With
our usual good nature we state this, being sure that it
will prove an additional draw). There was everything,
therefore, calculated to give the performers nerve and
ilan; and as the audience was as good-natured as it
was gigantic, there- was nothing calculated to cause
nervousness to any of the performers. Yet, strange to
say, many were nervous, and although ample time had
been accorded to all for study, ghostly tones from the
" promp ” side betrayed at not unfrequent intervals
that there were members of the cast who required their
"cues chalked.”
* « •
The first act is incomparably superior to the one
that follows, both as regards music and 11 business.”
Of the overture, however, which precedes it, the less
said the better. A performer on the flageolet, wbo
was entrusted with a variety of intricate •runs," blew
out the most melancholy music. Like the " youngest
gentleman” at Mrs. Todgers’, he was a torridc instru-
mentalist. But yet he was conscientious withal.
Giorza, in agony, cast beseeching glances towards him,
but without avail. He had been paid to play, and he
played, puffing out desolation at every blast. The
music of the opera, though in parts catchy, is extremely
flimsy; and in those airs which impress themselves
most upon the ear, one can continually detect passages
that are familiar. Mr. Verdi, who plays the Pirate
King, looks magnificent and sings grandly. His opening
air, lam a Pirate King,” received an enthusiastic
encore, to which, by the way, he acceded with much
reluctance. His acting, however, leaves much to be
desired. The same may be said of the Frederic of Mr.
Armes Beaumont. This gentleman (of whom we
recently wrote a flattering paragraph on his retirement
from the lyric stage) is not so successful in his numbers
as Mr. Verdi, from the fact of his unfortunately being so
often coupled with the “ piratical maid-of-all-work,"
Miss Acton Blair, who is, to put it mildly, quite unfitted
for opera. In Mr. Beaumont’s song in the first
act. "Is There Not One Maiden’s Breast?” he
was fairly successful; but he was, it cannot be
denied, at times under considerable obligations
to the falsetto. Mr. T. Bergin, as the Pirate’s Lieu-
tenant, though no doubt a very excellent gentleman, has
evidently mistaken his vocation—his acting and singing
being painfully crude and feeble. We do not wish to
say anvthing unpleasant about anybody, and therefore
trust Mr. Bergin will not be offended. If he is, we will
try and see if we can’t look him up some nice snug
little thing in the Lands Office.
.
Of Mr. J. C. Williamson, who appears as the
Sergeant in the second act, a great deal of good may be
said. He is excruciatingly humorous, and acts with
tremendous spirit. He has not, fortunately, any very
difficult music to sing ; therefore, vocally speaking, he
pulls through so satisfactorily that he is. if not the
greatest, at least one of the greatest successes of the
piece. Mr. South, as "the Modem Major-General.”
made a great hit in the first act, but subsided in the
second. His make-up, however, was admirable, and he
was enthusiastically received by the audience.
« * *
Of the ladies there are only two who really soar
above bare mediocrity. These are Miss Josephine
Deakin and Miss Fanny Liddiard. Miss Deakin is a
very charming young lady, and the happy possessor of
a beautiful mezzo-soprano voice, and an appearance
that is quite “ bewildering.” With these desiderata Miss
Deakin advances a Idhg’ way on the road to success, her
inexperience as an actress alone preventing her from
quite grasping the laurel. Miss Fanny Liddiard, as
Kate, presented a picture that was inexpressibly
charming, and she sang her music with exquisite taste
and sweetness. Her appearance was the signal for an
outburst of applause, and her movements throughout
the opera were watched with absorbing interest by the
audience. That Miss Liddiard is a coming star there is
no possibility of concealing; and when she is a star,
long may she twinkle!
« • •
The mise en scene was excellent, Mr. Gordon’s
scenery being, in a manner, superior to his previous
efforts. In the first set, however, which is a sun-set,
he casts a salmon-coloured glow over the rooks facing
the audience, when the orb is sinking into the ocean at
the back. We suppose, however, that artists, like
poets (and publicans), have a license, or that the sun’s
rays upon the stage are strong enough to pierce the
thickest boulder. All the costumes are admirable, and
the only thing crooked amongst the pirates was the legs
of some of those eccentric outlaws. The ladies were all
dressed in supe-erior taste, and looked well—in a body.
Perhaps, though, it will not be thought ungenerous of
ns to say that Nature might have done a little more for
some of them where Art had done so much.
• * *
The choruses, though a little wild at times,
were on the vfhole fairly rendered; and the piece,
though inferior to “ Pinafore ” both in a musical and a
dramatic sense, is, by reason of its many outside at-
tractions, likely to enjoy a long run. We trust it will,
for we wish well to everything and everybody—even to
our enemies, if we have any. Thus do we attain the
highest acml of journalistic philanthropy.
Ethiopian minstrelsy is popular amongst the
masses, both In the colonies and in the old country. It
is not, perhaps, the most elevated kind of performance,
appealing as it does to the ear and risible faculties only
(we do not except the sentimental ballads, which are
sometimes funnier than anything in the performance) ;
but with all this the “ nigger minstrel ” business has
the advantage of being an amusement which is excep-
tionally pure and harmless. Opera bonfie of the more
advanced kind is deleterious in its general tendencies,
from the fact of its always instructing one —in the
wrong direction. Tet, curious enough to say, there are
many who consider it infra dig. for a theatre to give a
temporary home to a troupe of clever minstrels, while
they would consider the advmit of a Soldene in Madame
Aneot, with Emily’s inevitable accompaniment, fasci-
nating Sara —pxbandi the “high kicker” —as the pinnacle
of dramatic elevation. So far as we are concerned, we like
♦he negro element when it’s good, but hate it when it’s
bad. There is nothing more enervating than the efforts
of weak altos and despondent corner men; and perhaps
the saddest thing in the whole world is to sit and listen
to the old, old conundrums, and to those anecdotes
which we have all known so long that they have become
baldheaded in their antiquity. A good bustling com-
pany of “ebonies.” however, is afford refreshing style of
entertainment, and if the jokes are pretty fresh, and
the singing moderately in tune, a very comfortable
couple of hours may be passed in their society,
• * *
The Sweatnam Minstrels are a good company—
the bright particular stars being the great Billy him-
self, Horace Bent, and Beaumont Bead. The two latter
are old friends; Mr. Sweatnam is a stranger —but a
very welcome stranger notwithstanding. The pro-
gramme was a fair one, not the least attractive point in
it being that most of the numbers were new, and some
of the farces not very old. The first part was chiefly
remarkable for the comic ditties of Messrs. Sweatnam
and Bent. The latter gave a* ridiculous song called
“ Lardydah,” which was extremely amusing, with its —
“ Penny stick and its penny pick.
Lardy Dah!”
Mr. Bent is always funny, but he fairly surpassed him-
self in this grotesque lyric. The large, audience posi-
tively rose at him.
» « *
No less successful was Mr. Sweatnam in
" Nobody Knows the Trouble I Seebut the gem of
the evening was later on in some absurd patter entitled
“ The Villain Still Pursued Her.” It was here that
Billy showed the true article. His quiet humour was
irresistible.
• * *
Mr. Beaumont Read sang two numbers —the
first, “ The Peasant’s Return,” suiting his voice but
indifferently, though afterwards he was, when plaintively
entreating to “ Touch the Harp Gently, His Pretty
Louise,” for more successful.
* » *
■
The tenor is one Mr. P. J. Shannon. This
gentleman possesses a very sweet voice of limited com-
pass, but he .is deficient in animation. Possibly,
however, this was, on a first night, attributable to
nervousness. EspSrons le I
* • «
Mr. J. S. Fredericks satisfactorily fulfilled the
functions of interlocutor and baritone in the first part,
but when playing “ straight ” man in the farces, he was
completely out of his element. Mr. P. is a conscientious
artist, but there is nothing playful in his nature. Built
on the model of “ Sir Roger,” there was too much of
the elephantine in him for his gambols to be attractive.
Still it made things lively, for, though you could not
laugh with him, you could laugh at him; so some fun
was got ont of the performance in that way. Sitting in a
chair and warbling Mr. Fredericks is superb; flounder-
ing about the stage in broad farce, he is—well, let ns
say—rather broader than the farce itself. However, he
means well, so bless him !
• * *
The dancing of Mr. Gilmore was fair. The
efforts of the other artistes—Mr. Neonan and the lady
(Miss H. Hasting}—call for no special mention,
especially those of the lady. The troupe will play for a
fortnight, when they will be succeeded by a very big
card indeed—“ The Montague-Turner English Opera
Company.”
DES SANS-CULOTTES.
The Press Free List.
The Editor of The Bulletin, having resolved to make
theatrical and musical criticism a prominent feature of
the paper, begs to announce that, os he considers a
Press free list to be antagonistic to a policy of strict
impartiality, he will in future decline any complimentary
admissions to places of amusement for the members of
his staff. This step is taken in the direct interests of
the drama. In future, therefore, the critics of this
journal will invariably pay for admission to the theatres,
&c., and in no case will exception be made to the rule.
PEPPER AND SALT.
A social little group was seated around a Glebe
Point dinner-table on Sunday last, and the heart of the
eldest-born female girl, Angelina Maude, was mode glad
by the knowledge that Reginald Plantagenet, her soul’s
adored, sat by her side, with full parental consent, and
occasionally trod on her favourite corns with all the
fond ardour of his youthful, earnest love and a pair of
Blucher boots with copper toes on them. The fond
pair were steeped to their ears in ecstatic bliss, and a
soothing air of celestial repose had settled on all, when
sister Dottie, aged t, roared out from the farthest end
of the festive board, “f. say, Lena, don’t you wish you
was a man ?” 'fixe admiring gaze of all was immediately
turned on the little wonder, as Lena replied, “No, dear;
why?" “ Well, because," continued Dottie, “y’see if
you was a man, Lena, you could strike matches on your
trousers, same as Mr. Merkins did when he was nursing
you at the picnic." For farther particulars, see small
bills.
« « *
There was an active officer and there was a
sly-grog shanty, and the shanty being “sly" and the
owner of it “fly," no conviction had been recorded
against him, although it was known that he drove a
roaring trade. So, as a last resource, the officer bor-
rowed some surveying instruments, and dressing to suit
his new character, lounged up to the shanty. “ Give ns
a drink of water,” said the officer—then, with a sly
wink—“ or, if you’ve anything stronger, you know, it’s
all right." " Oh, yes, I’ve something stronger,” said
the man, with a grin, “ but pay beforehand.” “ How
much for a nobbier of the good old stuff—the real L.L.?"
“ One shilling,” was the reply, and the money was paid.
Then the grog-man poured out something into a tin pan-
nikin, and handed it to the sergeant. That worthy,
feeling stealthily for his little bottle, resolved to just
taste a mouthful He now says that
kerosene is the meanest liquor that was ever invented,
and bewails the loss of his moustache, which he had to
shave off on his return —as whatever place he honoured
with his company began after five minutes to smell like
a'grocery store that had just been burnt down.
• ♦ •
Saene : A registry office for lady servants.
Enters patient, subdued-looking mistress. After said
mistress has enquired for the 157th time that week
if there is a lady help disengaged, the registry
proprietress thinks she has one who will just suit,
and soon after ushers in a showy, aristocratic
young lady,—the appearance of whose costume
would lead a casual observer to imagine she had
taken a remnant of a full-grown rainbow to her
milliner to build a dress from, and the elevation of
whose nose would lead the sapie untutored party to
believe she had just got a healthy whiff from a jug of
sour milk or an active tanyard. Having taken a super-
cilious survey of the ceiling, this very desirable napkin-
wrestler asks in pompous tones, “ Aw—Mrs. Jinsey—
which is the person you allude to ?’’ Mrs. Jinsey meekly
points to the trembling, awe-struck mistress. Jemima
Ann gives her one searching look, and then dashing up
her hands before her eyes, cries out, “ Oh, Jinsey! how-
evah can you go on like this, when you know how weak
my poor nerves are ? —and howevah do you imagine I
could live with a persing who wears, cardinal bows on
a green moire anteekey ? " Jinsey drops on her knees,
and begs forgiveness, while Jemima Ann fans her lob-
ster face with a pearl-handied fan, and the presumptu-
ous mistress glides out with a strong idea that she has
just murdered a human being or robbed a fowl-house.
» » »
Two questions of immense importance and
intense interest have of late thrust themselves so
prominently before the public notice that they new
completely engross the most earnest attention of the
whole civilized world; and these two questions are:
First, what effect will the entrusting of the despotic
power of Russia to the guidance of a stubborn, progres-
sive, self-reliant man like the present Czar have on the
peace and welfare of Europe?—and secondly; Who
owns those socks ? Our readers will of course remem-
ber that at a fire inquest in another colony a constable
said he had found a pair of unbleached and unbranded
men’s socks on the Florentine mosaic table in the boudoir
of the lady of the house, and they were immediately
recognised by the usual strawberry mark on the ancle,
and claimed by “ another lady" as the lawful property
of her lawful husbaud. Shortly after this, however, a
professional man swore that the socks were his. Had
the claimants been limited to these two, all would have
been well, as they could have taken a sock each, or
“ shook up ”to see who would take the pair. But it
now appears these socks belonged to the Orton family,
and the Tichbome claimant has given notice that he in-
tends to contest their ownership as soon as he leaves
his present suburban residence. For fear matters were
not thoroughly mixed, however, the irrepressible
Skuthorpe now telegraphs that these socks belonged to
Leichhardt, and form part and parcel of his notorious
relics —whilst another “ wire ” asserts they were worn
by the late Czar on the morning of his recent distribu-
tion. Of course a matter like this couldn’t be allowed
to float around without the local ecclesiastics having a
shot at it, arid we are therefore quite prepared for the
extraordinary statement that these socks formed part
of the variegated suit of store clothes which caused
Joseph’s brethren to get their backs up, as he “ did the
grand in a foreign land,” whilst they were compelled to
paddle about in their shirt-sleeves, and do their own
repairing. Dr. Badham has also taken a lively interest
in the constable’s discovery, and gives it as his
cleat, unbiassed opinion that .these socks were the iden-
tical pair worn by the intoxicated Tarquin when he
performed that Utile piece of somnambulism which
subsequently led to his clearing out for ’Frisco in order
to escape the 20,000 sestertia damages of Mrs. Ln-
cretia’s husband, and the No. 11 boots of his “ pardner,”
Mr. Brutus. Next week we wiU present our readers
with a handsome coloured engraving of the socks in
question, and a powerful biographical sketch from the
masterly pen of Mr. D. Buchanan.
« « *
Selling off! Selling off! Immense reduction,
in consequence of the proprietor leaving for England to
select a choice assortment of spring goods. Dr. George
On Lee, who is the onlee successful “ never-say-die "
medical man in Sydney, begs to inform his patient
patients, per Evening Nooze advertisement, that he
“ will be absent from Sydney three years, and he will,
therefore, let all his customers have medicine at half
price, and shall not require them to pay old debts.”
Now, that’s something like philanthropy ; and what a
withering reproach is cast on the boasted civilisation
of our Christian tailors, butchers, bakers, pawnbrokers,
etc., by the few simple words of this Celestial Peabody
—“ I shall not require any old debts paid ?” Would to
Heaven that all our creditors would act with a like
meek, forgiving spirit, and that aU our debtors would act
in a directly opposite manner. Our troubled soul
would then rest in peace, and we’d buy into a Coffee
Palace spec., and keep buggies and act as general corres-
pondents.
* * *
One of the tallest lions (in every sense of the
word) of our last Australian Team was the Bathurst
giant Bonnor, 5 and it is related of him that he was
never shown anything in the old land that caused him
the least surprise, or, on seeing which, he could not
remember something Australian far superior. The
classic majesty of Westminster Abbey and the mar-
vellous beauty of the Crystal Palace were passed over
with the same cool indifference, and his friends, as a
last hope, took him to St. Paul’s and bade him look and
weep on its colossal grandeur. George’s weeping
wouldn’t fill a thimble ; he eyed the building carefully;
poked around it critically, and then calmly observed —
“ Well yes. that’s a pretty fair pile of stone in its way,
but good Lor! (and here his face lit up with a radiant,
heavenly smile) —you ought to see old Dan Cooper’s
Market-street store in Sydney.”
* ♦ *
Ladies who have lately been compelled, either
through necessity or pleasure, to travel on the Rand-
wick tram, have also been agreeably surprised by the
extraordinary fertility of the insulting powers of a few
gentlemanly larrikins who travel by the same convey-
ance whenever they have funds enough to pay the
fourpence, or moral courage enough to cheat the con-
ductor. The modus operandi of their persecution
generally consists in passing loud, confidential remarks
on their unprotected fellow travellers’ costumes; won-
dering how many bell-ropes have been used in the
Marguerite plaits this season, and whether ladies will
be compelled to ride on deck when crinolines are again
A Ballad of Queensland.
Overlanding Jim apostrophiseth his quondam mate
who hath made his pile and gone home.
Oh I don’t yon remember Black Alice, Sam Holt—
Black Alice so dusky and dark—
That Warrego gin with the straw through her nose.
And teeth like a Moreton Bay shark;
The villainous sheep-wash tobacco she smoked |
In the gunyah down there by the lake;
The grubs that she gathered, the lizards she stewed.
And the damper you taught her to bake ?
They say you've ten thousand per annum, Sam Holt,
In England a park and a drag.
And praps you forget you were six months ago
In Queensland a humping your swag.
Who’d think now, to see you a dinin’ in state
With lords and the devil knows who.
Yon were “ flashin’ yourdover’’* six short months ago,
In a lambin’-camp on the Paroo ?
Oh! don’t you remember the moon’s silver sheen
On the Warrego sandridges white ?
And don’t you remember the big bull-dog ants
We found in our blankets at night P
The wild trailing creepers, the bush-buds, Sam Holt,
That scattered their fragrance around,
And don’t you remember that broken-down colt
Yon sold me and,swore he was sound ?
Say, don’t you remember that fiver, Sam Holt,
You borrowed so trank and so free.
When the publicans landed your £5O cheque.
In Tambo, your very last spree ?
Luck changes some natures, and yours, Sammy Holt,
Ain’t a grand one as ever I see ;
And I guess I may whistle a good many times,
'Eore you think of that fiver or me.
Oh, don’t you remember the cattle you " duffed,”
And yer luck at the Sandy Creek “ rush,”
The poker you played, and the bluffs that you bluffed,
And yer habit of holding a “ flush ? ”
Perhaps you’ve forgotten the pastin’ you got
From the “ Barks ” f down at Callaghan’s store.
When Mick Houlaghan found a fifth ace in his hand.
And you’d raised him his pile upon four!
You weren’t quite the cleanly potato, Sam Holt,
And yon hadn't the cleanest of fins;
But you lifted your pile at “ The Towers,”} Sam Holt,
And that covers most of your sins.
When’s my turn a-comin’ ? Well, never, perhaps,
And it’s likely enough yer old mate
’ll be “ humping his drum ” on the Warrego banka
To the end of the chapter of Fate.
IRONBARK.
• Taking pot-luck with a sheath-knife.
t Bock-block vernacular for “ Irish.”
% Charters Towers.


the fashion. There is one plan, however, by which a
determined young lady can rout a whole battalion of
these geebnng hoodlums, and it simply consists in
turning round, and staring at the insurers’ boots as if
they were of a novel style, or had a palpable dash of
the monstrosity element about their general build.
The gentlemen larrikin doesn’t chat very much about
Pompadour skirts or 15s. bangs after he has had a few
minutes of this amusement played on him. The
chances are his boots are as hply as a domain jcclesi-
siastio, or that they partake of the nature and size of
whaleboats, and before two streets are passed that
young mudheap either skips out and does the rest of
the trip on foot, or he sits as silent and still as the chief
mourner at a funeral.
■» » •
At present there are three reliable ways of get-
ting out to Woollahra by land, and these three are, first,
by 'bus; a most excellent style for those who are
afflicted with torpid livers, or feel that they would be
in some measure benefited by a thoroughly sound and
impartial jolting; secondly, by tram, which is an
equally desirable trip for those who have plenty of time
at their disposal, and who don’t object to sit still for
half an hour or so and make a sort of free public exhi-
bition of themselves while the other cars whiz past,
and cabmen make' offensive remarks on the sitters’
clothes and other peculiarities; and the third is by
that peculiar species of locomotion which was known to
the Ancient Greeks as “prancingont on shanks’ pony.”
Up to the presmt, however, the tram has by far the
best of the business. Every respectable Woollahra
• citizen who could beg, borrow, or steal the fare has
ridden at least once a week, and those who were not so
fortunate consoled themselves by running after the
cars and whoopkig out three cheers for John Davies—
from whom (apparently) all blessings fl >w. One family
rented a whole pew the first day, and rode in and out
for 18 hours, after which they snatched a few moments
brief repose standing np against the gate of the engine-
yard, and were the first on board again the following
morning.
* * *
Mr. Alfred Bennett’s thrilling tale in the Nooze
is worrying along as well as can be expected during the
present hot weather, and if he doesn’t run short of ink
and characters, it will probably be finished before the
North Shore bridge is commenced, or before we hear
any more chat from Skuthorpe. All the dramatis
persona Alfred started with have been either brutally
murdered or cut up by heavy frosts in the first four
chapters, and the business is now being actively carried
on by their hei.-s-at-law, a patent-medicine man, and
an old female fraud called Mrs. Bussell, who earns a
precarious living by mashing bread for debilitated
cockatoos, and nursing retired old gouty Government
•officers. In one of the latest sections of this soul-
stirring work we notice, with unfeigned regret, that the
gifted author has stepped aside from the clean, smooth,
asphalted track of prose to the slaughterhouse path
of poetry, and with a burst of frenzied indignation that
would blast a tunnel through Blue Mountain rock,
iAlfred wildly exclaims :
" Why should our garments, made to hide
Our parents’ shame, provoke our pride ?”
Now, to tell the candid truth, this is a question which
never struck us in all its repulsive nakedness before,
and we are consequently stumped for a satisfactory
answer, but the very next time we see a Batburst-steeet
orator we’ll put the case before him in a plain, straight-
forward way, and then report progress. Meantime,
Alfred, jog along with the murders.
* * •
A young lady who signs herself Marguerite de
Montpensier, and who inks her thumb and wears cow-
hide boots sends us three van loads of an ode to “A
Tress of My Lov’d One’s Hair.” Marguerite’s little
trifle couldn’t come along at a more sensible time. Of
late the walls of our establishment have assumed the
look of a chimney-sweep’s face after a hard day’s work,
hut we have improved this, and given our surroundings
a more cheerful aspect by using Miss Montpensier’s
ode for wall paper, and if she can only blast out another
ton or two of iambics on the “ mole near her lov’d
one’s nose” or a few loads of Alexandrines on the
Botany Glue Works we will invest in a new bedtick,
and having stuffed it up with Marguerite’s copy, sleep
the sleep of the Just, and perhaps dream of, the fair
erow who wrote it.
* * *
The Grafton people, according to the local
■paper, were much exercised in reference!© the “splen-
didly executed” views of the Clarence which lately
appeared in tlje Sixpenny Confusion. The Grafton
Argus, through a convenient correspondent, says :
“The special * artist ’ who sketched them need not
have gone to the trouble of visiting the spot, as the
same excellent result might have been achieved by
taking sketches anywhere, and I am sure they would
Rave been as accurate in detail as those produced. If
it had not been for the descriptive writing accompany-
ing the sketches, my 20 years* life spent in Grafton and
on your noble river would never have enabled me to
solve the mystery as to what the sketches represented.
Perhaps the paper has inserted the wrong cuts by
mistake; in any case they will do good service by and-
bye when some new gold field springs up on the banks
of a creek.” This sort of writing is cruel, and we
■don’t believe in it. Some allowance ought to be made
for a journal which has such immense enterprise. They
have such a collection of blocks at the office that the
wrong ones might easily have been substituted. Per-
haps the engravings in question rep'esent Pompeii
after the fall, or Berlin by moonlight. Mick Bush
thought he saw a likeness to Ballinasloe at sunrise,
while the editor of the Manning River Times thinks
the pictures represent Venice and suburbs in a snow-
storm. We have seen the pictures, and at onco recog-
nised them as (1) the scene of the murder; (2) the
place where the body was found; (3) the bridge the
victim crossed over; (4) the haunt of the demoniac
assassin. It was evidently only a mistake, and we are
liable to those. We have no doubt, however, that they
will do Grafton justice in a future issue.
• *
The Y.M.C.A. are still to the fore with their tent
—not their tent wine (we wish they were), but with the
Gospel canvas —in Alhion-street. The other night we
strolled in for a bit of solid Christianity. And we got
it. Taking a seat on the bench near the platform, we
dismissed all earthly thoughts from onr breast, and
awaited conversion. Mr. David Walker gave out “ Hold
the Fort,” and a gentleman of Holt Howl celebrity
played the accompaniment on an American organ very
much inflamed. The congregation, which consisted of
a choice sprinkling of city outcasts, larrikins, and girls
without shoes or hats, sang with great energy and in-
dependence. They wouldn’t wait for the boss’stime, but
made him follow them. After the hymn ; “ Let us
pray," from David, several loud chuckles amongst the
savages, and a cracker let off. “ I must have order in
the tent,” from the Gen. See. “ Whoop-boohoo !—hi I
—sit down!—drvupl” “ Silver, please.” And David
commenced. Hardly had he got under way when a
dog entered. Some one got holdjif his tail, and he
growled audibly. “ Eeally I must have si —” (A. loud
scream. The dog had nipped a larrikiness on the calf.)
Hymn giyen out, “ We’re Marching to the Battle-field,”
amidst much confusion. On this we rose, amidst
threatening cries from the habitues of “Hi sav! don’t
you go clearin’ till the show is over.” We sadly
departed without waiting for a recitation which was to
follow. We consider the Gospel TeAt a great insti-
tution—one calculated to do the poorer classes a great
deal of good; but we don’t say they would not derive
equal benefit from a “ square meal.”
• » *
“ Mon Pm!” We are only mortal, so at last |
we have succumbed. Of course it was a lady who '
conquered us, and we trust a pretty one. But that
matters little. Even if the beauty is absent the mind
3® there. This lady has written a little poem, the
burden of which (and the burden of her poem is the
burden of her little fluttering heart) is love. She is
lond of someone inside of a coat and trousers who
passes down her street every day, and for whose coming
?“ e anxiously waits. She gives us no cine to his
identity, but merely states that she has never spoken
to him. The copy of her verses has been revised by
her at onr suggestion, and she has revised them so
well that we will really give her a lift by printing one
stanza. Before doing so, however, we must make her an
|aniest request. That is to send us no more about “ Mon
1401 • We can’t interest ourselves in him, however
much we may do in her. If she wants to write long I
verses badly, here we are, and Ipt her lavish a little of
her ardour on ns. We can bear it. She sings them
mournfully, in a measure she has made her own. Ob-
serve now the soft, sweet melancholy of it. It is like
the drip of magic water from the fairy rooks in the
moonlight glen, or the murmur of the very sad sea
waves. Hope is fled. Nothing is left but despair and
the ball at the Garden Palace.
" Again I watch for his coming.
Just content if his face I can see.
Though I do not think he will ever know.
Or have given one thought to me."
Now that we have put you in print, sweet poetess, we
are going to give you a little sound advice. If, you
silly child, you think by writing anonymous poetry in
The Bulletin to make him look round, you are as far
out of the right track as ever was the prodigal son. No,
no! Tap at the window; or if that wont do, send a
boy after him to twitch his coat-tails. If you are poor
we will lend you a boy, provided you will return him in
fair condition. When you meet him face to face, ask
him inside. Then if he doesn’t respond, and say some-
thing nice, ’apologise and say you expected the barber
and mistook him for the tonsorial professor. Then he
wont have the laugh, you see. Yes, do that; or buy a
pea-shooter—we’ll lend you that, too, if you just drive
round in the landau. Get a pea-shooter, and pot him
from the attic when he goes by. He’ll look up then,
never fear. If you don’t do that— well, there, do
anything yon like, but don’t send ns any more verses.
*■ * *
Where will this terrible calamity end ? Only
last week our erring young friend the Echo nnblush-
ingly stated that the Temora diggers didn’t
think much of “ their dam water,” and now it deliber-
ately endeavours to father a fiendish joke on Sir Henry
Parkes by asserting that our well-beloved Premier said,
“20 years bad elapsed since the sum of £2s,ooo'was
voted for a Public Library." Sir Henry couldn’t do it. A
lying statement like that could only be invented after a
long career of crime, and an intimate association with
the active business of a lawyer’s office, and with the pre-
sent exorbitant charges for parliamentary refreshments
staring us in the face, we can solemnly declare that no
single member of the present House could concoct such a
diabolical invention; —unless some other fellow had
done the shooting. Will the Gospel Tent proprietors
kindly open up and give those heathens a toot in Hun-
ter-street ?
• • *
The wholesale palace of one of onr merchant
kings has of late been fitted up, regardless of expense,
with a twelve-and-six-penny telephone that connects
the top story, or junior clerks’ department, with the
ground floor which is bossed by one Mr. Brown, and
since Edison’s wonderful invention has been in working
trim, these juniors have positively revelled in mad
delight, whilst unfortunate Mr. Brown has suffered all
the ingenious torments which the Holt Howl ladles
out to the damned. The greatest interest in Mr.
Brown’s welfare was suddenly aroused in the breasts of
all who had the luck of visiting that top story, and so
frequently was he called to the trumpet to furnish in-
formation respecting his poor feet, and his twins, and
his appetite, that his hair turned white during the first
week, and his_ brain began to leak during the second.
The crisis arrived last Monday when the senior partner,
who was showing a most distinguished party of ladies
over the building, suddenly came to the telephone, and
after explaining its working, requested the most hand-
some and aristocratic lady of the lot to speak into the
disc, and ask Mr. Brown a question. Now it so hap-
pened that the unlucky Mr. Brown had been called to
the instrument exactly 110 timesdnringtheprevious two
hours, and it is onjy reasonable to suppose his temper
was not exactly on a level with that of the patient Job.
Miss X., however, was ignorant of all this, so placing
her rosy lips to the machine she called down in dulcet
tones: “ Mr. Brown—is it hot down there ?" Poor
Brown was nailing a case at the time, and having just
successfully mashed his finger into a blue pulp, he
threw down his tools, dashed over to the tube, and
roared back, “ Hot! No, but by heavens I’ll make it
hot for you; you set of fools. I’ll
go up and drag your tongues out and jump on
them!" The fair company were thoroughly satisfied
that one trial of telephonic communication was a trifle
more than quite sufficient, but the senior’s soul
“ flopped ” down to his boots, and Mr, Brown is open
now for another engagement. Fact.
* * »
Persons whose leisure time is sufficient to enable
them to read the average country journal from the title
down to the printer’s name have no doubt occasionally
tumbled over a column.list of the diseases which,the
magic pills and paste of a certain professor across the
pond are said to cure. By a judicious system of adver-
tising, this professor has amassed a colossal fortune,
and, we believe, even keeps a Chinaman cook and a
buggy. With this, however, we have nothing to do;
but we have just been favoured with an “ad." from
this gentleman, enclosing a sample of his 40-horge
power pills, and a list, containing all the diseases that
flesh is heir to, and which the said pills are guaranteed
to shift in something less than ten rounds. A post-
script to the letter naively says: “If there are any
other diseases peculiar to your colony not mentioned
in the above, kindly insert, as our pills and paste will
cure everything.” We haven’t had time to devote that
attention to this important item which it deserves, hut
we have worried up a few complaints not enumerated,
and will be pleased to hear of more. Here’s our brief
list:—
Chronic “ Cheek ”
Loss of Memory, about the end of every quarter
The Jimjams
Nervous Abilities
Enlargement of the Thirst and Appetite
Hennessy’s Staggers
• and
General Chronic Insolvency.
N.B.—Wanted, a smart man to work np testimonials.
Must be a good, sound, reliable liar. None of the trade
need apply.
♦ * •
He was the popular physician oh one of the most
popular mail-boats, but having accidentally swallowed
a dose of his own “ brew," he ordered himself up to a
certain inland town, due N., for a fortnight Calling at
the post and telegraph office one day for letters, he '
found the department in charge of one of the most
lovely little angels that ever “swopped” her wings for |
a 50s. hat and a pullback. The old, old story was at
once re-published. Their eyes met; their hands met;
their sighs met; their noses met; and finally, they met
by the banks of a rippling stream, and then— oh, dear
me ! That evening they were engaged, and Luna never
shed her silvery light on a happier pair—bar none.
Unfortunately, however, Dr. Squills had already over-
drawn his leave by two weeks, and his brother officers
began to feel a trifle alarmed. Guessing from previous
experience that a lady was at the bottom of all the
trouble, these jovial tars handed in five telegrams, all
directed to their giddy friend, and all to he paid for at
the other end. They little thought how these bombs
would shatter the fond heart of her who first received
them. But it was to be. At noon that day the fair
betrothed was at her post, and the lightning-dodger
from Sydney opened np as follows:
“To Dr. Squills, Elysium Plains, —Your wife almost
mad. No letter since yon left. Return immediately, or
will issue warrant.—(Signed) Patience Pickle, your
mother-in-law.”
“ Dr. Squills, Elysium Plains, —The twins died to-
day. Johnnie, Benjie, Sarah, Maude, and baby down
with measles also. Send ten pounds, you wretch, to
bury them.—(Signed) Mrs. Squills.”
“Dr. Squills, Elysium Plains, —If your shirts, etc.,
not called and settled for at wonse, will be soled to pav
’xpensis.—(Signed) Mrs. Bridget Googirty, general
laundress.”
“ Dr. Squills, Elysium Plains, —Darlicg George, your
letter and photo, received. Kissed it fifty times. So
lonely to-night, love, without you. When will your
own little Tootsie see her heart’s adored again p Please
send five pounds to-day. Had to ‘pop ’my sealskin to
, pay board. Lumps of love and lots of kisses.—Mabel.”
“Dr. Squills, Elysium Plains, —Pa knows ail. So
wretched. Take me away immediately or I will do
something desperate. Reply at once.—Lottie Lovitt.”
There was 12s, 6d. to pay, but it was the icy manner in
which the deceived operatrix said he needn’t “ trouble
to explain” that killed him. Half an hour later, he
was on his way to Sydney, where he was kindly met by
his messmates and a brass band.
V.
Harmonious Banquet.
It was an Impromptu kind of affair —and like all
hurriedly.improvised parties, was, on that account, the
more hearty. M. Henri Kowalski being a diligent reader
of The Bulletin, had somehow contracted a notion
that the Sydney press were in needof.“ a square meal,"
and he had resolved that prior to his departure he
would at least ease his mind (being himself a journalist)
bv banqueting a selection of representatives of the
metropolitan press. This charitable idea he carried
out to the letter. The scene of the “petit Baltazzar "
was the hotel de France, in Castlereagh-street. At
“the bewitching hour" the other night, the feast was
spread, and at a quarter past there was an array of
clean collars and cuffs round that table that would
have struck admiration into the heart of a blanchisseuse.
The pressmen mustered up pretty strong. It was an
affecting thing. Genius was everywhere. It encircled
the table like a halo. M. Kowalski’s health was
proposed by Mr. Cox, the treasurer of the Gaiety.
Mr. Cox’s eloquence was unexampled in the history
of oratory. He spoke in English, which, before
he acquired the Gallic tongue was his native language.
Ho said, “ Gentlemen, we are all men, but M. Kowalski
is more than a man—he is a pianist. We have not
made njoney out of our host, but yet in spite of that
we have' Kettened to Kowalski. When I say Kettened
—I mean cottoned—but no matter. M. Kowalski,
gentlemen, with musical honours." On this, everyone
stood up with his glass in his hand, and spilled his
champagne down his coat cuff. M. Kowalski in answer
stated that he would willingly reply in his familiar
musical tongue, but was afraid that if he played “ La
Marche Hongroise" —the “ Hungary March ’’ —some of
the guests would regard the piece as personal. He
then stated that the only thing that had been able to
even reconcile him to the climate affreux of this sacre
pays was the enjoyment he derived from a weekly
perusal of the Sydney Bulletin. He was also lavish
in his praise of the Sydney Morning Herald, stating
that he considered the editorials in that journal master-
pieces of humour. The musical notices in the same
paper he regarded as playful attempts at journalistic
chaff that were quite Kettenish in their friskiness.
Since he had resided in Sydney he had seen all
the lions, including Sirencee and “ Seer-Robin-
sonne-Johnne." He was to depart soon, and felt
that expedition was necessary, as he understood
he was in imminent danger daily of being asked,
“ What do you think of our harbour F ” He
concluded by proposing “ The Press’’—coupling with
the toast the name of the Herald musical critic. The
various representatives of the papers briefly replied,
and all appeared to evince a lively interest in coffee and
Chartreuse. At 5 a.m. the meeting broke up, much to
the satisfaction of a large body of police who waited
outside to control the ardour of the mob who had as-
sembled there to listen to the rich tones of Verdi, and
the wondrous playing of the genial host. Altogether
the affair was very successful, and M. Kowalski has left
the ink-slinging talent of this city in debt to him for a
really good night’s fun —in which were embodied several
long tones and one square meal.
“Too Thin.”
EXTRACT FROM MR. M'BEATH’S LETTER TO
THE CITY COUNCIL.
“I need not state what my feelings are in this rascally
matter, for although after the • discovery of the gross
cheating by these men in the workmanship I was some-
what prepared for cheating in the measurements also,
the disclosures in the paper this morning are truly
astonishing. In explanation of my own position in this
unfortunate matter, I would respectfully beg to state
that, not having been supplied with the assistance of a
clerk, whose duty it would have been to be constantly
on the works to see that the said works were properly
executed, also to make all measurements, and furnish
same tome, I, consequently, having entire confidence in
Evers, accepted his measurements, and Evers and
Kennedy were paid on such measurements so made by
them. There can be no doubt noxo that I committed a great
mistake ."
REMARKS OF ALDERMEN ON THE SAME.
Ald. J. D. Young : " Mr. M’Beath must have the
skin of a rhinoceros to be able to show his face in public
at all since this matter cropped up."
Ald. Hardie “ thought the letter did not exonerate
Mr. M’Beath in any way.”
Ald. Butcher said “ if they received this letter of
Mr. M’Beath’s they would be compromising a felony.—
(Hear, bear.)"
Ald, Beare “ considered Mr. M’Beath more to blame
than any of them, for he had been seen as many as six
times a day on the building when the foundations were
being laid.”
Touchstone and Audrey.
Once more, and for the very last time. Par away deep-
down in the sunny south-west, is a village so little that
when a six-horse waggon enters the main street, it
completely shuts the place out frem the gaze of the
approaching traveller. Well, there is a certain peda-
gogue there, who is of a strangely suscej®ble dis-
position. He never sees a woman, but he loves her,
and thousands of those he has only heard of, he adores.
Not long ago, while bumping round among the
neighbouring turnips, he chanced upon a local Audrey,
and hastening to do the Touchstone business, won her
heart—or, at any rate, a chunk of it, for she was a lady
of very considerable corporeal circumference. Time
wore on, and he gave her presents galore. In return,
she presented him with a photo (one of those works of
art with which travelling operators libel the denizens
of a prosperous country). This portrait he carried
a' out with him and kissed, until he put a polish on it
nearly as bright—and a great deal more striking than
Bovd’s best enamel. One morning he entered the
school-house, and exhibitingthe portrait to the scholars,
said, “ Here you sea, dea-rr little children, the future
wife of your instructor. What do you think of her? ”
They said they admired her, and a half-holiday
equally—and they got it. Later, he showed it to the
two publicans and the blacksmith, and then rode in fiye
miles to enquire the cost of having it engraved and
inserted in the Wantabadgery Woßrier. . . .♦ . A
month later, through some cause or another,' things
cooled between the parties. He said she used to
" carry on ” with a journeyman carpenter, and she
intimated that if he didn’t like it he could “do the
other thing.” Well, he did it j and the match was
broken off. The pedagogue then ceased to show the
photo, around, and maintained for some days asubdued,
not to say melancholy, demeanour. When, however,
he found that Audrey had made a good thing out of
raffling his presents at the Ploughshare Hotel, he
went about and told all the neighbours that he had been
forced to give her up, as it took too long to walk round
her.
* A skin like a rhinoceros.— Vide Aid, J. D. Young’s
speech. .
"THE STRAIGHT TIP."
Though we love and respect you, devotional Dave,
And are grieved at the fix you are in.
We’re afraid that your offer your bacon wont save.
It is really, dear David, too thin!
“ It’s too thin,” they all grin;
“ It’s too thin —it’s too thin;
It won’t wash, Dave—it’s really too thin."
You dear old hobgoblin, they can’t take your " greed,"
For Butcher would think it a sin;
The notion was clever, hut then they won’t heed.
For they all seem to say it’s too thin.
“ It’s too thin,” they all grin;
"It’s too thin—it’s too thin ;
It won’t wash, Dave—it’s really too thin."
You are “ grieved ” at this " rascally matter,” altho’
You don’t think you have got a thin skin.*
When you talk of your feelings—your heart full of woe—
The boys wink, and all shriek, " It’s too thin 1"
“ It’s too thin,” they all grin;
“It’s too thin—it’s too thin ;
It won’t wash, Dave —it’s really too thin.”
’Cause a clerk of theworks you had never, you say,
O most holy denouncer of gin !
You knew naught, altho’ there at least" six times a day”
Oh, by thunder, now, Dave, that’s too thin.
"It’s too thin,” they all grin j
“It’s too thin—it’s too thin;
It won’t wash, Dave—it’s really too thin.”
You give Evers and Kennedy jar-ro—that’s sad I
And you say that they grabbed all the tin;
Yet you want to return what you never have had !
Oh, come, Dave, now, it’s millions too thin.
“ It’s too thin,” they all grin;
" It’s too thin —it’s too thin ;
It won’t wash, Dave —it’s really too thin.”
There’s a slit in the doll, and the sawdust is out;
Life is hollow, yet full of “ dark sin.”
Lo! our idol is shattered, and all brought about
Because Mae.’s explanation’s “ too thin.”
“ It’s too thin,” they all grin 5
11 It’s too thin—it’s too thin ;
It won’t wash, Dave—it’s really too thin.”
Mr. Sullivan.
A STRAIGHT LIBEL.
We have got reckless. Not having received during the
week—as we fully anticipated—notice of an action
(damages, £10,000,000) from Judas Iscariot or his ghost,
we have resolved to wade in. We did intend, it is true,
to have given the late Geo. Guelph a turn; but news
having arrived that Sullivan, the murderer, is lying in
the Wagga Hospital, we seize at once the opportunity
and treat Mr. S. to a pastoral.
Sullivan, then, from his earliest age, was a bad egg.
Though possessed of an egg-shellent father, he bucked
against the paternal yolk. As he grew up, he became
a man of a-size. He drank much, and, like a leaky ship,
was very often in the dock. He thus became well known
at the Quarter Sessions—though but indifferently re-
spected. During, however, the brief intervals of free-
dom that Sullivan enjoyed, he did not neglect to improve
the shining hour. He taught children in the Temper-
ance Hall by day, and—robbed the public by night.
Once he became a contractor. This was in New Zealand.
He took a contract for filling up a big hole with rubble,
boulders, and old kerosene tins. But, being honest, hq,
put in splendid masonry instead. For this crime he
was brought before the Court, and got five years. On
being released, he continued his bad courses. Calling
himself The O'Sullivan, he represented to a member of
the Government that his aunt had once sold his (the
Minister’s) sister a jackdaw. He was, thereupon,
immediately made a J.P. On this our hero commenced
to turn his attention to the licensing, and made a good
thing as licensing-whip to the publicans. This source
of profit dying out (every other house being by this a
licensed one), Sullivan realized a good sum at buying
temperance children’s railway passes at lOd. each, and
selling them to the little dears at Is. 3d. The railway
authorities having discovered (after five years) that this
was an objectionable proceeding, Sullivan became can-
vasser and collector for a religious paper. After a week
of this, he resigned. He found that whenever he went
into a shop to seek an “ ad.,” the man inside produced
a bludgeon, and whenever he called to collect an account
the person to whom it was presented invariably paid
with the toe of his right boot. His next appearance
was as a candidate for the suffrages of an up-country
electorate. We forget the name of it at this moment,
but Wantarememberbadgery will do. The electors
knew nothing about him, and he knew nothing about
them. However, he stuck up ten drinks, and bawled
out of the hotel window that “ Protection” was Ms
ticket. Ho had another ticket besides that —the docu-
ment relating to certain “ pants and vest," the property
of his Sydney landlord. He was elected. Ten days
afterwards he resigned—and six days subsequently he
was made police magistrate at Jackeyruekeyboo—a city
of 35 inhabitants. In this position he greatly distin-
guished himself, fining all the neighbours with much
impartiality. When the funds were low, he would
assemble the police force (one aged trooper) and com-
mand him to ready up a prisoner. Well, this was done
until the whole of the population had been “gone
through”—in a double sense. In sheer desperation,
then, he arrested the constable with his own hands,
and fined him. This incident being brought before the
'Ouse, Sullivan was requested to resign. In reply, he
sent down a note saying he would be only too happy to
do so provided he got his seat back—it being then in
the occupation one of the Ministers. The Govern-
ment being in a quandary, he was granted one year’s
leave of absence on double pay, and the Government
whip’s butler was put in as locum tenens. Here we lose
him for a while, but it was .whispered that a few years
later he committed several mur Halte Id! If we
could only be sure of choosing our own jury, we .
However, caution is the better part of journalism.
Ho up Id! Maungatapu, they say, was the name of the
place.
INTAGLIOS.
La Sosur Australienne.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
She walked the earth as one of those
Who ne’er had faced the drifting snows—
In heart and look a Southern rose.
Blessing the day.
Yielding from her divinest eyes.
The wanting radiance of the skies.
And filling with unconscious sighs
The bright and gay.
She knows, but striveth not to know.
How beauty clothes her like the slow
Sun-rose-floods drifting o’er the snow
Of Jungfrau’s height.
Tho’ purer in her outward look.
Than silver gleaming crystal brook;
Within, she’s as some charmed book
Which angels write.
I pass her, and I think how vile
My life has been, how full of guile;
And yet I dare to look and smile
As she moves by.
Perchance her even passing near.
May wake some penitence sincere,
And make my life’s dark current clear
Before I die.
HENRY HALLORAN.
A Sestina.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
On looking hack into the bygone years
Remembrance, like a vista, narrower grows.
Re-widening as its earliest days it nears.
On which the brightest light of memory glows.
Like yesterday, each vanished day appears.
As time, impelled by memory, backward flows.
In evening’s calm the tide of memory flows
Back o'er the dreary wastes of misused years;
The blush of conscious shame unhidden glows
As each false step or stumble memory nears.
And as the cultured mind expansive grows.
The misspent past still more misused appears.
How bright and beautiful our world appears
In youth, when novelty with pleasure flows!
The sun sets aye too soon in boyish years;
Yet, as the sun in eastern heaven that glows
Shines not so brightly as the west he nears.
So fades the world as youth to manhood grows.
That man is blessed in rectitude that grows—
In whose life’s chart nor reck nor loss appears.
The tide of whose affairs but ebbs or flows
With neither flood nor storm to mar his years:
His log of life with pleasant memory glows.
And welcome waits him as he harbour nears.
The desert traveller, as he water nears.
Thinks not of distance—light his burden grows;
And, so throughout the dreary drag of years,
Hope, a reviving fount for mankind flows :
When all seems lost, and gloom all round appears.
Then Hope, triumphant, ’mid the darkness glows.
Then, while life’s pulse within the bosom glows.
Strive for the best, —and as thy haven nears.
Thy care and trouble even lighter grows;
And life on earth a preface but appears
To time which in a tide eternal flows —
Which knows no days, no weeks, no months, no years.
B.
Wagga Wagga, 7th March.


Public Ccsnpaii
THE. MERCANTILE BANI
ESTABLISHED It
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF P
Paid-up Capital.
Be serve Fund....
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.'M,
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Bsq.
MANAGER:
P. A. 'A. Wilsoi
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Ge<
LONDON BANKE]
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapr
Agent~G. H. Alexand*
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England f
CORNWALL FIRE AND A
ANCE COMP AN
CAPPIAL, £100,0
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AI
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STR1
SIDNEY.
The national mi
ASSOCIATION OF ADSTKt
Established 1861
The only Life Office in the Austn
bn a been conducted on PUREL1
C1PLES from its foundation.
N ew South W ales Branch: 77 Pi
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown anc
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Bi
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made
belongs to the policj’holders, and is
every THREE YEARS. The hot
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and (
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY. F. FRANCIS, I
G. C H U R C
,147 YORK STB
Opposite the Mark
IMPORTER AND MANUP1
Coffee, Peppers, Spi
CLEVELAND MILLS, SU
CHEAPEST HOUSE!
for Liverpool and Black Hor
Choicest Sage and Majoram on 1
680,000 AMERICAN SB
Just arrived, all 6
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sa
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 1
Canterbury.
WH. A R
• PROVISION MERC
AND GENERAL COMMISJ
343 and 345 Kbut-street. nr
Public Compax
•MMEECIAL BANKING
SYDNEY.
Established 18&
Incorporated by Act of Co
Capital, £575,000. Reserve F
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman;
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy,
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., M
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E. £
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson i
Messrs. Cape and Westt
Hbad Office—George-stn
T, A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt,
Gaden, Branch Insp«
With Branches at Haymarket, Geori
Oxford-street.
London Office —39 Lombar
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M
Esq.; F. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel Co
Branches in New South Wale;
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Beg
Blayney, Bombaln, Bourke, Eowral, ]
Camp bell town, Cannonbar, Carcoar,
Cobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonan
Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes,
Lanes, Goulbnm, Grafton, Gundagi
ning, Inverell, Kcmpsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molonf
Murrurundi, Mnrwillumbah (Twee
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narand
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Qui
Richmond, ' Shoathaven, Singleton,
Tumbnrumba, Wagga Wagga, Wal
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wei
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisb
Maryborough, and Eockhami
Agencies in the Coi
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria
Australasia, Colonial Bank o:
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank vt i
National Bank of Australasia
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank c
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diem
New Zealand : National Bank of ]
Agencies beyond the (
London : ,TLe London and Westm
London and County Bank,
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union]
Manchester • The Manchester and
Ireland.- The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank c
San Francisco: The Bank of Br
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgi
India. China and Singapore : Th
India, Australia, aud China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lorn
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercant:
London, and Chino.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of I
China.
Mauritius .- Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
The Bank discounts hills, grants
advances on approved security, al
fixed deposits, negotiates produce I
issues drafts or letters of credit, an
loot, bills payable at any of the ab
elsewhere, at current rates; collects
in public companies, and interest c
for its customers in the investment
ties in Groat Britain or in the colon
to undertake the agency of Banks o
be mutually agreed upon.
1HE MUTUAL ASSURAN(
VICTORIA (LIMTI
Established a.d. If
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-sti'eet, S;
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Cha
Ebeuozer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Es(;
This Society is established for Lil
granting of Annuities and Endowmi
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the entir
Society at every distribution therec
LOANS granted on Mortgage or c
combined with Life Assurance.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.'S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
V. - U -
4-
A-
■ft
SOLE MANUFACTUEEES:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCOED WOEKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY s
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.'
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to moke gas and instruct some one iin the
process as part of our contract. . t,;ae.,..
A. A. M, & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual lock. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
without cords. This-Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
1879-80. BEB
mm
9
5
N
a
m
ID y I AOKMOWtBO«£t TO BB TUI BUT IN THE WOULD
I JBA MU FA CTUKEO BY W. DAY/ISi C* COULBURHU.SJN
mHE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
£
V
A
usrrc
£
&
22
C 2
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixe I ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., $ gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
us;—"Woollabra. August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences."
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yanis—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
G.
A. SMITH,
88 KING STREET
(From Rotherham’s, London),
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
\
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs
done on the premises under G. A
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXFORD STREET.
g GLASSO N’
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Habbis-steeet, off Georgk-steeet,
and
Adjoining-the Darling Harbour
Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. lias also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harxis-street, near Railway Bridge.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers- CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street* next cornei
King-street. Established 1859.
N
EW EEFLECTING LAMPS FOE GAS OE
KEROSENE.
*9
&
«
s*
£
nWa\
1
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WINDOWS, &c.
BAEWELL AND FISHEE’S DUPLEX
GAS BURNERS JUST ARRIVED.
GLOBES, &o.
J. FAWKSFOED, 65 MARKET STREET.
458 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.
ENLARGEMENTS IN PERMANENT TINTS.
LBEET S. MANDEES* AND CO.,
(Late Grant, Mandkrs and Grant),
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 LITTLE COLLINS ST. EAST, MELBOURNE.
Victorian, Intercolonial, and New Zealand papers
supplied, and Advertisements received for the same.
We can supply Australian and New Zealand News-
papers with Article*, Reports of Meetings, Correspon-
dence, and General News, either by letter or telegram ;
and Newsagents and other business people can have any
kind of business transacted in Melbourne by applica-
tion to us.
The above Firm have Agents in aH the colonies, from
whom they get all the earliest Sporting News, and now
supply, at moderate cost, the leading Hotels. Clubs, &c.,
with telegrams of results, after each race, of all Sydney
and Victorian Race Meetings.
Hourly Telegrams op Principal Cricket Matches,
&c , supplied.
We are prepared to forward the result of any or every
race to any part of the Australian colonies imme-
diately after the horses pass the post, or at the termi-
nation of the day's sport.
Special arrangements made for New Zealand and
Tasmania.
Sole Agents in Australia and New Zealand for the
TYPOGRAPH. Send for Circulars. Will print 5000
copies of Circulars, Drawings, Music, &0., on permanent
-paper, and on any paper. No washing-out required.
P.. 0.0. made payable to the above.
Rent and Accounts collected. Every description of
PRINTING executed.
IRON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS
Fitted np with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets. Counterpanes,
bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
608 George-street.


Chemists and Druggists
m
ÜBL I C
NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON'S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Aptibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson's Strengthening Eye Letion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Nkae Hyde Park Corner.
(NJB. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT-
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D, E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,800 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies:—
BAMES’S QUININE WINE
Which improves the appetite and strengthens th<
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatnlencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relieve the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
organs.
PRICES —1/-, 1/6, 2/6, & 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
A RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIFICA-
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation,
This is not vain expatiation ;
For 'tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication ;
In callous state or suppuration.
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation,
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation
Of the foregoing lucubration—
Just use your powers of observation!
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchination.
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation.
Then —friends of suffering creation—
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation.
Called “ Farmer’s Friend,” —ugh, botheration!
It’s nothing like BOW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should he kept on every station.
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
EI)WD. BOW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colonv. 3s 6d bottle.
CIO UGH WHILE STOU CAN ! Because, after
) taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linetus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch's Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Sonl,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling Sold everywhere.
R~ AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
KENT DAILY, at 107 LIVEBPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis-
Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE NO MORE PILLS
but try
EANDEESON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE?
Then try Sanderson's
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Complain of Indigestion! .
* Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES!
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Sanderson's
PODtyPHYLLIN LOZENGES
, will soon cure, if taken as directed, being tha
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time P You
can safely give ,hem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
•a* Eemember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDEE OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found withont it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
ia now the honsehold word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, ana all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON'S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDEE OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once he
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free frsm any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON'S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, iu pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOE
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
*** They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer —
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXTORD STREET SYDNEY.
Try BU S H ELL
FOE
SIGNS.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
T HARVEY,
• WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hay and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS. DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
Business Announcements
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
G,
352 George-street.
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which pained first and special prise
OVER ALL OTHERS
at. the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BT
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A PEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, PleyeTs, Anchor's,
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano-
fortes.
Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clough
and Warren’s, and Smith and Cohipany’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP ART,
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blac
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
REDGATE’S
PjSITJSHT mem.
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet foi
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■eld by all Grocers and Storekeeper*.
Xj] AND F. W. MASON
DRAUGHTSMEN
Engravers on Wood,
land, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-et.)
ESTABLISHED 1837.
JP O W L E R’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
OAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Tobacconists
E * S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cat Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett's Twist.
* Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and .Repaired.
159 PITT STREET.
Next Post Office.
c H
m
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
Sr
I
a.
Manufactured by
T. S A Y W E L L,
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
fjl HO S. J. B 0 W N & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSFINISHEBS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS. GLOBES, SANITARY WARE
HOSE, &c.
IRON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE-
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
CO.,
jQ CLARKE AND
Wholesale and Retail
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TEAMWAT TICKETS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHUEST.
AN ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT
VISIT
O
1*
FOE GOOD. CHEAP, DURABLE INSTRUMENTS.
PIANOS. ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENERBEIN, Juh.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel),


Jg.ADON’S HEALTH SAL]
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALI
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALI
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALI
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALI
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALI
B LADON’S HEALTH SALT
A combination of Oxygenated
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and C
Taken according to direction
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is
rational remedy as a preventive or c
all Functional Irregularities of the
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitua
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sicl
Indigestion, the effects propuced
dulgence in rich food, or the t
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, &c.;
ment of Fevers, S nail Pox, Diphtht
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, cl:
diseases. It is especially serviceab
and should entirely supersede th<
aperients. Children take it with ]
vigorating effect of an occasional do
to successfully combat the insidious
It effectually destroys the Poison Q
contracted in our daily walk throu
alterative and enriching qualities it
the vital fluid to perform, in a healtl
functions in the wonderful economy
piece—Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chemis
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH S
may justly be termed a BLOOD DIS
PPBOVED BY THE
Government
10th J
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I h
that the parcel was received in go<
reason of my not writing to you be£o
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ shot
am now directed to inform you th
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS,
“ I also can vouch for the same, anc
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
“ Tours faithf
“ Reginald
"Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTB
The Australian Chtjkchm
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFEBVE
We can honestly recomm
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFA
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRU
in the market.’’
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, I
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., 1
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND'.GENI
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED j:
Turret Clocks —simple, strike.
Spectacles, etc., of aH 1
Plain figures—Low prici
gl N J O Y L
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS 4
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLIC
JJOTAL FUENISHI*
HOUSES FUR-
NISHED
throughout in
the nicest and
most economical
manner. Fall
particulars post
free to all parts
of the colonies.
EVERY WED-
NESDAY, we
keep open until
pine o’clock for
the convenience
of those who can-
not attend during
the day. The
SHOW - EOOMS
are well lit, and
every attention
afforded inspect-
ing visitors and
intending pur-
chasers.
CAMPBELL
B EO THEES.
late
W. B. Campbell.
LARGE
AMOUNTS 0]
money have bee
saved by pm
chasing at th
EoyalFnrnishin
Arcade, whi c!
has from time t
time been ac
knowledged
great boon to th
public.
EFPOETS T(
make the Arcad
a centre attrac
tion have to th
present time bee:
most successful
Visitors feel suol
a pleasure ii
walking throug!
the Show-Eoom
—they can do s
without be in
worried or eve:
expected to mak
a purchase.
SATE MONE'
by purchasing a
the EOY A ]
FUNISHIN <
ARCADE,
426, & 428,
George -Stiieei
Next the
Eoyal Hotel.
■\NCE USED ALW
O
■illllKllKHHuM
Trade mark " Arm and Dolly ” on
out which none is genuine. Bew
m,
visto
TRADE
MAR
sSS
The GRAND GOLD MED
HIGHEST MEDAL. Pa
HIGHEST AWARD, Syt
LATHEES FREELY, SOFT
AND SHOULD ALWAYS B
For Washing Clothes, Linen, E
For Securing Floors, Greasy Y
THE KOOKABURRA.
A nun certain thing—taking the veil.
Biggar-ted people—The Irish Home Eulers.
Has an off-hand way with it—A circular saw.
A sneeze is like a waterfall because it’s a
catarrh-act.
When popping the question merely say to her,
•* Let’s consolidate."
Advocates of women’s rights, in the long run,
generally go for women’s lefts—widowers.
Ambiguous position* of a strict teetotaller—To
«• stand ’’ at the “ bar ” of “ public ” opinion.
It is very mean to ask a man whose wife is a
screw, if it’s hot enough for him or if it’s scold enough
for him.
"When a man speaks of his “ salad ” days, does
he mean his infancy, when he was “ dressed " by some-
one else P
Job has been marked down in history as the
patient man. The fact is, that at one time he was just
boil-ing over.
Young men who “ ante ’* frequently, need not
be surprised if they have to call on their “ uncle ”
occasionally.
The .first duty of a sailor is to learn all the ropes.
It is just the same with the man in Sydney who wants
to get a drink after midnight,
A girl who writes to, not for us, plaintively re-
marks that “ poems are heavenly things.” And so, we
■my add, are waste paper baskets.
When mother Eve was alone with her husband
Adam in Paradise, she wasn’t satisfied. There was no
man other than Adam to flirt with, so she flirted with
the devil.
A suburban caller seized and kissed the pretty
servant girl before she could offer the least resistance.
“ Announce to your master Mr. , of the Social and
Moral Science Congress."
“ What happy hours, sweet, I spend,”
He sighs, ‘‘alone with thee."
“ It’s all, she says, yon ever spend—”
“ Good evening t ” says he.
“I declare,” said he to his lady-love, “you are
very handsome.” "Pooh," said she, "so you would
say if you did not think so." “ And so you would
think,” answered he, “ though I should not think so."
“ Little baby is very ill, Charley; lam afraid he
will die.” “ Well, if he does die, mamma, he won’t go
to the bad place.” “ Why, Charley, how can you know
that?" "Oh, I know he can’t, mamma; he’s got no
teeth to gnash.”
Snooks went homo the other night afflicted with
double vision. He sat for some time with his sleepy
gaze riveted on Mrs. Snooks, and then complacently
remarked: “ Well, I declare if you two gals don’t look
*nough alike to be twins.”
In a certain restaurant the other night a waiter
was apologizing for the dilapidated state of the napkin.
‘‘Don’t mention it,” responded the customer, sadly.
•• I don’t mind the holes in the least. That part of
your napkin is always sure to be clean."
“ Our hearts, our thoughts, our very beings,
grow tender with age,” said the boarding-house keeper
thoughtfully. “ Yes,” said the new boarder, who was
battling with a piece of fowl. “ but hens do not." The
landlady looked as if she saw the point.
A photographer, after making several futile
efforts to take a customer’s picture, finally sat down to
watch the subject. The reason soon became evident
when he ascertained that the man gaped every time the
crape was taken off the door-knob of the camera.
He was just out from home, and as he proudly
strutted down the shady aide of the block, with the air
of proprietorship in every movement, a stranger stopped
up to him, hat in hand. “ Beg pardon,” he said with
the utmost humility, “but do I have permission to re-
main in town to-night ?”
“ I never saw such a tenderness in my life.
Whenever De Brown comes home his wife meets him at
the door and kisses him.” “Tenderness in a hornl”
responded a friend in the family; “ she does that to see
whether he has broken over the New Year resolution,
and got on to she-oak again.”
Melbourne Punch asks: “ Why should the
slim men have all the fun to themselves on their • spider’
bicycles and urges that some enterprising firm
should afford the big men a show, by building bicycles
up to their weight. And then Punch gives a picture of
a couple of big men mounted on bicycles with wheels
like those of steam rollers.
. “I don’t believe in these secret societies,” said
one woman to another. “ That’s very singular,” replied
the other, "Tour husband is a Forester, a Knight of
Pythias, and a Knight of Honour, and you will have at
least £l2o when he dies." “ But what good does all
that do me,” was the tearful response, “ when he
never dies ? ” and the poor creature burst into tears.
In the Civil Service :
From ten till one
There’s nothing done;
From one till two
There’s naught to do.
From two till three
They begin to see
That from three to four
They can do no more.
An article known as an ambulance stretcher
and exhibited at Melbourne International is thus des-
cribed in the catalogue issued by the manufacturer, a
DutchmanDressel Frame and Hand Barrow for
transport Dressing, change-bed, etc., all blessed and
Sick Persons without touching, Hurting, or Fatiguing
them. Diploomed for excellence bij the International
Medicinal Congress at Amsterdam, 1878. livered franco
on boord of ship, steamer, etc.”
A Classical Biddle.
Hail, goddess blind, tbon of the scales.
Attend, incline thine ear;
Hear what my muse erratic wails.
Divine “ blind buff,” draw near;
I have a nut to crack with you—
Perchance a passing tough one, too.
Oh, maid, most unimpassionate.
Unbiassed, lifeless, dead.
Whose stem, cold looks assassinate
Sweet Pity, turn thy head.
Thou Mercy’s hangman, and declare
The riddle which I set yon here.
A pair of scales from thy right hand
Depend, which Justice weigh;
Around thine eyes a muffling band
Is bound. Now, tell me, pray,
How know you, since you cannot see.
When thy scales horizontal be ?
J.H.M.
Long Ago.
Long ago, when life was younger, and life’s burden cast
no shadow.
When the gladness of existence had a summer
fountain’s flow, .
Side by side we trod dim woodland, river-bank, or
haunted meadow.
Long ago.
liOUg ago, when I was younger, then I didn’t have to
hustle
'Round to buy my wife a bonnet every tune the
(fashion changed;
Or the latest things in stockings, or a new self-acting
bustle —
I’m deranged.
Long ago the hand that clasped mine had the other
clamper broken, ,
Buying various colored dadoes, and ITrencn clocks
that wouldn’t go.
I shall ne’er forget the word that she might just as well
have spoken.
Namely: “No."


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Captain C. F. Bashwood, formerly Collector of
Customs at Adelaide, died recently.
Mr. Warden De Boos, of Temora, is to be pre-
sented with a gold medal by the Chinese diggers.
Archibald Forbes writes that he will arrive in
Auckland by the inward May mail steamer from San
Francisco.
Mr. Buskin’s Museum at Sheffied has been
enriched by a large, lustrous, and magnificent opal, said
to have been found recently in Australia.
Mr. Henry Taylor, a gentleman who arrived at
Adelaide by the Orient, is interviewing the South Aus-
tralian Government respecting a scheme for promoting
the immigration of moneyed farmers to the colony.
Bishop and Mrs. Barker, en route to Europe,
have been staving with the Rev. Canon Goodman at
Geelong. At the last accounts the Bishop and Mrs.
Barker had arrived at Albany, and his lordship was in
much improved health.
It is stated that the Hon. William Bates, of
Victoria, has been an uncertificited insolvent for the
last twenty years, and by sitting in Parliament has
incurred penalties amounting to something like £70,000.
He is not now a member of the Melbourne Assembly.
His Honor Mr. District Court Judge Dowling
has been appoint d by the Executive to preside at the
Dubbo and Grafton assizes. Judge Dowling has long
shown his fitness for a higher position than the Dis-
trict Court Bench There have been, during many
years, very few successful appeals against his decisions
Some months since A. F. Greig, book-keeper to
Messrs. James Paterson and Co., secretary to the
Footscray Gas Company, and an ex-councillor of the
borough, suddenly disappeared, taking with him a con-
siderable snra of money belonging to the firm by whom
he was employed. A warrant for his arrest was issued,
but owing to the zeal and assistance of his wife he got
safely away. It now appears that he steered for
America, and that his wife, who followed him, died of a
broken heart owing to his having taken to Mormonism.
According to latest advices he was being tried on a
charge of polygamy.
Henry Kendall has been lec-
turing on the Manning.
Mr. Jules Joubertis actively
engaged arranging for the South
Australian Exhibition.
Mr. John Dawson was ban-
queted at Burwood on Saturday
last prior to his departure for
England.
Mr. John Blair Campbell,
grazier, well-known in Queensland,
died suddenly from heart disease
recently.
Mr. Joseph Storey, one of
the members for North Melbourne
(Yic.), died on Sunday evening,
after a long illness.
Dr. Goode, of Campbelltown,
has commenced an action against
Captain Onslow for defamation
of character. Damages, £2OOO.
London papers say that
Swinburne eats opium, and cannot
live long. But then the London
papers occassionally have some
very interesting items in them.
The Eev. J. E. Tenison-
Woods has stated in course of a
lecture at Maryborough, Q., that
the Burrum coalfield is of equal
richness and permanency with the
coalfields of Newcastle.
The furniture of Lord Ayles-
ford at Packington Hall, was
seized under bill of sale to a Mr.
Cox, a money-lender. Twenty
men and a number of waggons
from Birmingham constituted the
invading army.
The Hon. Major Smith, the
Victorian Minister for Education,
whose wife died recently, is rather
seriously indisposed, and goes to
New Zealand for three weeks to
egain his health. Major Smith
has long suffered from heart-dis-
ease.
In Tasmania, a certain bar-
rister graciously says, when the
“ beaks” obstinately refuse to see
a case as he views it, and refuses
to believe that a prisoner he is de-
fending is not guilty, that he pre-
sumes that as they are in a penal
colony everyone is supposed to be
a felon.
In Joseph Irving’s “ Annals
of Our Time," published in Lon-
don in 1876, is a passage descrip-
tive of the railway king, Hudson’s,
enormous transactions, which is
repeated almost in identical lan-
guage in Lord Beaconsfleld’s
“Endymion." And yet “ Endy-
mion” is bad enough to be wholly
original.
Mr. Charles Beadett, solici-
tor of Newcastle, has issued a
Supreme Court writ against Mr.
A. H. Jacob, for libel. Damages
are laid at £2OOO, and the case
will be set down for hearing
at the next sittings of the court.
The action, we believe, arises out
oft he petition recently pre-
ssnted in Mr. Readett’s interest
against Mr. Jacob's return for
Gloucester.
Mr. Munro, the well-known vigneron, of the
Singleton district, who some time back donated £lOOO
to the local Hospital, has now at his own expense
arranged to light the town of Singleton with gas. He
imported all the appliances necessary, and the pipes
are now being laid under a satisfactory arrangement
with the Borough Council.
Mr. Anthony Hordern, of Anthony Hordern and
Sons, Haymarket, leaves for England on the 26th, on
business. Some idea of the grasp this firm has on the
trade of Australia may be gathered from the fact that
they have purchased a magnificent building site in the
heart of Melbourne, where they intend to erect the
largest stores in this hemisphere, at a cost of £130,000.
The friends of that distinguished but unfortu-
nate scientist, the late Mr. Gerard Krefft, will be sorry
to learn that his widow and children are still very
scantily provided for. It was stated the other week
that a gentleman had offered to educate Mr. Krefft’s
eldest son, but it now appears that the statement was
incorrect, that no such offer was ever made, and that it
has been suggested to the widow that the boy in ques-
tion, as also the naturalist’s infant child, should be left
to the care of the State 1
Captain Standish, the ex-Chief Commissioner of
Police, and Mr. Nicholson, the present Chief Commis-
sioner, are not on speaking terms, and at the first meet-
ing of the Police Board took no notice of each other.
Mr. Superintendent Hare looks rather aged since his
sufferings from the Glenrowan wound, but improves
continually, and is almost out of the doctor’s hands.
Mr. Hare’s hand is limp and useless, through the severe
operations which had to be performed in extracting the
splintered bone from the wrist.
It was stated in a Dubbo paper the other day
that Mr. Freeman, the C.P S. at Forbes, had died after
a lingering illness. This was all a mistake, and poor
Mr. Edwards was occupying the grave which a news-
paper correspondent had so thoughtlessly dug for one
of the best officers in the Government service. While
the comps, were setting up that item of painful intelli-
gence, Freeman was kicking up his heels with a few old
rorbes friends, just before his departure for Sydney.
A copy of the ‘sad event’ with a neat and appropriate
mack border and some ‘ lines in memoriam,' was sent
down to him.
Charles Edward Stuart, Count d’ Albani, if we
are to believe the romantic genealogy of some faithful
Jacobites, has just died, leaving male and female issue.
He was, it is said, the grandson of Charles Edward, the
“Young Chevalier.” the bravest, the most engaging,
most unfortunate, even of the Stuarts, and had lived in
comparative retirement in South Belgravia nearly
twenty years. His elder brother, who died some years
ago, left no issue. The likeness both of himself and his
brother to the Royal House of Stuart was very marked ;
moreover, their great and varied accomplishments,’
their personal bearing, their grace and charm of man-
ner, their innate dignity, and the right royal manner in
which they patiently accepted povertyand sorrow, surely
marked them off from the common herd.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
The “ Sacred Ibis ” has fallen out of his nest,
and will haunt the Observes office no more.
The English language is a rich one, especially
in words expressive of drink and drunkenness. The
latest coined in Brisbane is “ Will yon do an anti-coffee-
palace ? ”
Costello has resigned the mortal editorship of
the spiritualistic paper. The Telephone. The spirits
made it too hot for him. They came from the wrong
place and he didn’t expect that.
Mr. Swell Blundell, M.L.A., is now more aris-
tocratic than ever. “lam—ah. refewing just now to
the—ab—the lowah ordahs, Mr. Speakah." Again,
Langford says, “ Weally, your Onah, I must object to
my learned fwend’s question.”
The best yarn current in Brisbane just now
immediately concerns a certain gentleman holding a
very high position in this colony, who is “well in,”
and who was married a good while ago. On the “aus-
picious occasion ” he felt in such good humour that he
determined to make a present to the church in which
the happv event took place. The present was to take
the form of stained glass windows representing each of
the apostles. In due time the windows appeared.
They were fixed in their places, and very beautiful
specimens of the decorative art they were. In due
time also, the gentleman in question received the bill.
This document was about as long as the Insolvency
Court, and was moreover very suggestive of that
debtors’ loophole. It specified the cost of each of the
windows, and somewhat staggered the very liberal
donor. “ Dem it mon,” said he, “ whaur did the twal
come frae ? I kenned there were three weel enench—
St. Andrew, St. George, and St. Patrick; but I didna
bargain for twal o’ them.”
THE FASHIONS.
[BY THE MAN-MILLINER,”]
Pearls are seen on everything.
A new contrast is salmon and ochre.
The assthetic impulse in ladies’ dress is still
active.
Plush and beaver hats are showing again this
season.
“ Anne of Austria ” is the latest thing in ladies’
collars.
Heavy necklaces of large rough beads are in
demand.
Pearl buttons are now seen on most handsome
toilettes. '
Plush is now to be had representing leopard and
tiger skin.
Bonnets are seen made wholly of feathers. They
look elegant.
Millinery muffs’continue to be the articles of dress
in which variety of taste may be advantageously dis-
played. Some are seen laden with bouquets of natural
flowers ; others, repeating in their lining the trimmings
of the dress and bonnet, are ornamented with ribbons
and vivid-hned birds.
Artistic ladies who like to ornament their own
dresses, and are tired of crewel embroidery, may enjoy
copying their American sisters, who are wearing silk
costumes painted by hand. This charming trimming is
executed in water-colours, and chiefly represents
trailing flowers or water plants combined with birds
and insects—the tiny China buttons being painted to
match.
Floating cloaks and battered head-gear are the
rage in London.
Mantles are worn so long that very little of the
dress can be seen.
Young ladies are wearing caps made of ale-cream
pearls for evening.
Young ladies don’t wear jewellery now. Flowers
have taken its place.
Dresses are trimmed with trails of marsh
mallows and dog roses.
Plush bonnets are much worn at home. They
look cosy and becoming.
Spanish lace is seen in abundance both at the
theatre and in the street.
Lace, powdered with sulphur beads, is new, and
looks well for night or day.
“ Mother Shipton ” bonnets are new, and are
becoming favourites at home.
There is a new shade between yellow and green
which is taking well in Paris.
Poodles’ heads painted on plush ground are the
latest thing in a design for a fan.
Flowers are worn in abundance, both on the
dress, in the hair, and at the throat.
“Mother Hubbard” cloaks and coal-scuttle
bonnets are the leading things at home.
Bed, white, and yellow are the leading colours
in Paris, also a light cardinal, which is new.
In fans the latest is made of white ostrich plumes
with sticks of amber-coloured tortoise-shell.
Square satin collars, embroidered in filoselle and
trimmed with lace, are new and look stylish.
Marabout feathers, frosted with silver powder,
look elegant as a dress trimming for evening.
A coat bodice of black brocaded velvet is a good
investment, as it goes with almost every dress.
At a fashionable gathering in London, lately,
an American lady wore a mantle made by Worth. It
was of black satin, with a design of leaves and flowers
frappi in velvet upon it. It was heavily trimmed with
fringe, and on|the back was a bizarre zigzag pattern of
gold.
Copy the dress of your greatgrandmother exactly,
and you will be dressed in the extreme fashion.
Plush bags in old gold and Bordeaux are the
latest novelty. They form muff and bag combined.
A blue-grey cashmere costume, trimmed with
satin of same colour, makes a handsome street toilet.
Plush fans in all colours are new, and are some-
times seen with dogs’ faces painted in water-colours on
them.
A pretty cap composed of gold-printed silk, set
off by chenille geraniums, looks elegant for ,a matron
lady.
Short dresses are coming in for evening, but
stately and elegant trains will always remain in
fashion.
The hanging pocket or bag is seen on most
artistic dresses, and is made to match the trimmings on
the dress.
Cloth of gold in every colour will be new for
evening wear. Black, with threads of gold and silver,
looks well.
Brocaded velvet is in great demand. It makes
an elegant trimming for a dress, with cord tassels to
match in colour.
“ The Granny” bonnet is much worn at home,
by old and young. It is made of plush, and lined with
warm-eoloured satin.
Jet fringes are in vogue just now. Every strand
terminates with a jet ball, and these balls click like
castanets as the wearer moves.
“ Henry II.” is the last thing in ladies’ hats.
It has a large, full, velvet crown, narrow leaf, and is
trimmed with a lot of black tips.
Mother-Hubbard ” frillings are worn round
the neck. They stand up high all round, and are made
of soft hair supported by invisible wire.
The things most in favour in London and Paris
this winter are the close, small, plush bonnet, fastened
under the chin by strings of wide plush ribbon. Mother
Hubbard cloak of either black satin or cashmere, with
a gleam of colour showing at the wrist and about the
throat; and the small muff, lined with plush or satin
of the same colour as the bonnet and lining of the
mantle.
The mania for Oriental embroidery scarfs and
gauzes still rages at home. Fabulous prices are paid
by Parisians for those “ gorgeous affairs.”
Fair hair has entirely gone out of fashion. The
favourite tints just now are •* Veronese,” “ Murillo,”
and chesnut brown, with yellow reflections.
Floral necklaces are much worn for evening at
home, —also, head-dresses to match. The favourite
flowers are violets, white lilac, and roses every size
and colour.
The “ Dolly Varden ” bonnet of shaggy beaver,
tied down with strings of hairy plush ribbon, and
trimmed with a lopho,,ore’s tail sweeping over the
front, is new and becoming to young ladies.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Menander: Woman is an evil; but at the same
time, she is a highly-necessary evil.
Socrates; A true lover thinks more of his
mistress when absent, than he does when present.
Martial:
The maid must not, I’d call my own
Say No, too oft; or Yes, too soon.
Marrying men have now a rare chance at Yass,
where there are about fifty females who are mightily
afraid that they will have to take to dressmaking.
L. Yoleriua: Women delight, and glory in ele-
gance of appearance, and their ornaments and dress
are what our ancestors called “ the women’s world.”
It must have been a lady of “ woman’s rights ”
proclivities who wrote that gorgeous account of the
Hart-Levey wedding. In the Herald the name of the
bridegroom wasn’t mentioned once. The Herald tells
us that the whole of the festivities were carried out on
the “ Hebraic principle.” Is it Hebraic to throw the
bridegroom overboard?
A woman may smile, and
smile, but be unwillin’.
It is generally when you are
not looking for a woman that you
get on her trail. And you always
hear the belle as soon as yon get
on her train.
A Murfurundi girl made
some tomato jam to send to rela-
tives. It commenced to ferment,
whereupon she gave it to the pigs.
They died. There is a moral in
this.
At Peoria lately, Coffee, a
youth of nineteen years, was ad-
judged to pay Mrs. Mary A.
Thomas, $25 for blighted affec-
tions. Mrs. Thomas is fifty, and
a grandmother.
Says an old bachelor: “ The
flies, the cats, and the women, use
a considerable time on dress and
toilette. The first are voluptuous,
the second are false, and the last
are both in a higher degree.”
If you show your attentions
to a lady without expressing your
feelings in words, she will tell
her friends that you are a “ dan-
gerous ’’ man, but don’t be silent
too long, or she will tell them
that you are an “ ass.”
By the mail we read that a
lady in Paris recently gave a mar-
ried ladies’ party, to which no men
were admitted. Old Crusty is
open to make a big wager that the
husbands had a much jollier even-
ing of it than their better halves.
No Paris woman who is any-
body ever wears any other than
silk under-clothes, and the most
fashionable color for that, as well
as many other articles of dress,
including the orset, is red. A
celebrated modiste says;—“lt
would be quite impossible to pro-
duce the same effects on an Eng-
lish or an American figure, for the
reason that so much and bungling
underclothing is worn. A French
woman has everything to fit her
figure exactly, thin and fine in
material, and regards a fold or
wrinkle as a device of the arch
enemy to injure her appearance.”
This silk underwear fits like the
skin.
Writes “Shanghai” from
Melbourne: —•* Of course you have
heard of Boy-cotting—that is you
know that an unfortunate man
thrown among—l mean Irishmen
—of the name of Boy cot was made
very uncomfortable by the minute
attentions paid to him by his
neighbours. Well, the term has
become quite the rage, as all new
things do. especially if they are
idiotic in character ! It is fash-
ionable for a young lady of the
modem school to sav, when she
is bored by the attentions of a
yonng man not of her choosing,
“I am awfully boy-cotted."
Young men, on the other hand,
when run after by females lan-
guidly utter, “I am dwedfully
girl-cribbed.”
“Do you favour my suit?” said Claude to
Aagelina, the other day. “ Yes,” was the crushing
reply, “ I look with more favor on the new clothes than
I do on their owner.”
A warning to the brides was given at a recent
wedding, at which were six groomsmen, eight brides-
maids and a best man. The wedding party got safely
into the church, but the struggle of the bridesmaids
for the odd man on coming out was a sight to behold.
Juvenal ;
“ Sure, of all ills with which mankind are curst,
A wife who brings you money is the worst.”
[This statement requires conflateation and a fair
trial.—Ed. B.]
Mr. Kidd, (the senior member for Camden) com-
plained in the Assembly on Wednesday night that the
“ female lady teachers ” in Public Schools received too
high salaries. Mr. Fawcett expressed a hope that Mr.
Kidd had not been jilted by some of these young ladies.
You little Kidd, come, tell the truth.
Now, were you ever in your youth.
Of maids a vain beseecher ?
And was the non-consenting flame—
We will not seek to know her name—
x A teacher ?
No secret from us e’er was hid—
Come, answer now, you naughty Kidd!
Much attention is being paid now to kissing as
an art. The principles of the new scheme are said to
work admirably by those who have tried them. They
produce assthetic results without diminishing the
normal fascination of kissing. Hundreds of men can
bear witness that, after having been kissed by the
woman they adored, they felt just as if they had been
hit m the face with a mop. Hundreds of, women can
testify that osculation has caused them more trouble in
repairing damages before a looking-glass than the
pleasure of the thing was worth. Under the projected
dispensation a man need not make a woman’s head look
like a cornfield after a hurricane, and a woman’s kiss
need not reach from a man’s chin to the top of his head
atone fell swoop. Hereafter kissing will be a dessert:
not a meal. ’
ST. PATRICK’S NIGHT BANQUET.
“Everything passed off pleasantly.” —Daily papers.


The only electeic-lighted sun-eclipsing bh
THE BRINY DEEP.
THE LARGEST AND BEST CIRCUS EVER
AT SYDNEY, TWELVE DAY
COMMEr
REPBODUC
ALL EARTH’S
under t
BEUSH-DYN
in c
w. w. CO
s
AMD CONGEEE
w. W. COLE’S
CIRCUS, MENA(
AND CONGRESS OF L1VI?
Illuminated throughout by the dazzling Electric Light, the m
literally turning night to daj
the only show that faithfully ki
Presenting every feature advertised, and permitting no pe
Rs*
mu
m
*
-vl
/!
First appearance on the Continent of the World i
The Heroine Hurdle Eider
By all nations crowned “Queen of the Blazing Zone*’—in her Darin
3 through Hoops of Fire, and fearless ventures which require
The Adonis of the Arena William 0 I
Peerless Horseman and Sununersaultist Mr. Weoda C
The Greatest of all Lady Eiders
The Equestrian Queen
The Beautiful and Dashing Empress of the Air
Earth’s Greatest Character Eider - ——
i The only and Original JSCrial Bicycle Baders
LIVING TABI
BY THE
PERFORM!
STALLIOI
JUST AS HEROES
The Champion Acrobats of Every Clime.
The Great Horizontal Bar Team
The Most Comical of all Clowns
SINGER’S SEWING *
THE
SINGER MANUFACTURE
Have opened a Depo
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DAR
HARBOUR STRE
8
INGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sent
s
INGER’S SEWING
BEST TERMS TO WHOLEI
s
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of nea
8
INGER’S, THE BEST F
Have received 160 First Pi
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, fore
8
aNQER’S, BEST FOR I
SINGER’S MEDIUM MACH
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. i
8
INGERS THE BEST I
See the New No. 4 Mt
8
INGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition 1
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOR
See the New No. 4 Vibrating'-
8
INGER’S SEWING
HAND OR TREAT
8
INGER’S. The BEST. The
MACHINE-Light to Work,
8
INGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6c
8
INGER’S, THE BEST;
LEARN. New Improvement!
8
8
NGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to all
INGER S, THE BEST A:
Sew finest muslins and he
8
INGEE’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
8
INGER S THE BEST and A
Will last a lifetime in co
g IN
GER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: Tl
8
INGER MANUFACTURE
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Hai
8
INGER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymar
have been appointed agents fo:
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth*
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cas
SINGER’S SEWING M,
8
INGER’S SEWING MACH
and CO. only recommend
Remember, there is *
GER MACHINE. See th
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—I
applies to the Genuine Mad
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER'S MACHINES^—I
Cast ir m imitations. Onl
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
INGER S SEWING MACH
meats with the Singer (
8
8
INGERS SEWING MA(
cent, discount for cash, or on
SIDNEY. —From TURNEI
GEORGE STREET, opposit
INGER’S SEWING MACH:
bat 160 FIRST PR]
8
li
OMEE’S
P
AELOUE
The Really Popular (and cheap) '
805 GEORGE ST
Opposite the Railway T
Especially esteemed for his port]
Children.
Cartes de Tisite 7s 6d pe
Sims and p
MEDICAL HERBAI
TREAT ALL DISEASES W
BOOKS FOE NOTHIMG-
Youwill get information that ma
and perhaps months, or even ye
Address: 240 GEORGE STR]
Opposite Charlotte
SYDNEY.
r~/y.
MELBOURNE JINKS.
(BY SHANOHAI.)
Perhaps one of the rarest virtues possessed by
mortals is that of consistency. What one considers a
grave fault, a gross act of injustice, an inhuman act,
etc., See., in another, he does not look upon as the same
sort of thing where perpetrated by himself. As an
instance in proof let me quote that day which has
become immortalised in our annals as “ Black Wednes-
day.” Over it the howl of our Wealthy Bower Orders
went up in indignation to the powers above. The heart
of the Victorian aristocrat and moneybag was severely,
apparently, shocked at the dismissals of leading Civil
Servants—nothing bad to be found in the vocabulary of
English was left nnused, The reason—curtailment of
admittedly extravagant expenses—even was laughed at
and disbelieved. Indeed, it was even argued by a few
of the leading howlers down of the act that it was
better to let the colony go to the dogs than unsettle the
holders of dozens of snug sinecures. But, strange to
say, and it is here the inconsistency comes in, a very
similar act has been perpetrated by a body of men
whose only boast is and can be that they are million-
aires—in other words, the Bank of Victoria has at very
short notice dispensed with the services of officers who
have faithfully served for years, some for over a quarter
of a century. The only reason assigned is reduction in
expenses. But though this is deemed a sufficient cause
on the part of the bank owned by capitalists for the
miserable effect brought about it is not considered
justifiable on the part of the Government. So runs
the world along. I have not heard that the B.V. direc-
tors have ceased pocketing their weekly remuneration
of a few guineas apiece for sitting an hour or two at
the Board table, looking wise, and seconding the pro-
cedure of their great Fan Jan, the honourable and
wealthy Henry.
St. Patrick’s Day was great in processions.
The green boys turned out in great force, and did the
customary marching through the city in as dignified a
manner as their gait and intelligence would permit
them. One patriotic son of Erin did special honour to
the occasion by being appropriately full of that which
does not soothe, but inebriates. His playfully frantic
attempts to keep on the line of march and in step were
something worthy of the saint in whoso name he that
day wore the typical colour. And, strange to say t< in
appearance my hero was not unlike a leading Irish
member of our august Assembly. Only a case, how-
ever, of a queer coincidence.
We in Melbourne who affect music are not a
little surprised at the reception given to our pet pianist
—sweet Henri—by your Herald’s critic. I certainly
thought that if the Frenchman had one forte more than
another it was his bewitching influence over the fair
sex of whatever age. But we live and loam—though
some don't.
Aa I have before remarked, the popularity of
La Belle France isirapidly advancing in this colony
through the sagacity, suavity, and liberality of its
Consul, M. Belcour. This gentleman never loses an
opportunity to show the best side of his nation by
giving social reunions. The other night he gave a most
pleasant dinner, at which, besides the French delegate
Commissioners to the Exhibition, were the represen-
tatives of the leading journals—yours, of course,
included —and King Casey and Secretary Levey. Both
were resplendent in the ribbon of the Legion of
Honour, and didn’t they parlez v<ms Franfaw I My
eyes, sir, I were surprised at their education. Ton
should take a trip to Pdree too.
I have made a great discovery, which is of so
much importance to Australian squatters, that I hasten
to acquaint you with it. I found it in Mortimer Frank,
lyn’s “Glance at Australia,” a very advertising sort of
book he has just brought out. Well, in this I find that
he has discovered that a firm of wool-brokers and stock
and station agents in Melbourne can tell you the
probable rainfall" in any portion of Australia—hence
the advisability of seeking their advice before invest-
ing. Perhaps so, but as Ido not believe there are any
such prophets amongst us, and I don’t wish to min the
squattocracy, I will not further advertise the weather
seer. In this case, at all events, a prophet has had
honour, or something even more, in his own oountree —
thanks to the effervescing Mortimer.
Our lawyers played a cricket match on St.
Patrick’s Day, and they were patronised by several
female members of a certain profession. This fact has
set curious people thinking and asking the why and the
wherefore. No answer has yet been forthcoming, but
someone has suggested that the number of cm*, con.
oases set down for the next Divorce Court is now
accounted for.
Changes have been taking place in journalistic
quarters here. Punch has been sold by Mr. James
McKinley, who has gone to America in order to secure
the right to a new process for illustrating papers. Our
Bulletin has also, I understand, witnessed an altera-
tion in its proprietary. •
The enquiry into our police system has com-
menced, and, though onlv a day old, has shown that at
least the heads of the Force have not been a happy
family. Standish versus Nicholson, Hare versus
O’Connor, and so on. No wonder the Kellys enjoyed a
pleasant immunity when their pursuers were wrangling
among themselves as to who was the best man—not at
cards, mind you! for there one is supreme beyond
question. A few more sifring enquiries would purge
the colony of the nuisances which have well nigh
strangled it to death.
Messrs. Thomas Webb and Sons, glass manu-
facturers. of Stourbridge, England, whose exhibits at
the Sydney International Exhibition attracted great
attention, have now on view at their branch establish-
ment, Bond-street, in this city, a collection of all the
splendid specimens of glass and china ware, &c., shown
by them at the Garden Palace. The best productions
of English manufactures are to be seen, including the
new descriptions of bronze glass, hand-painted china-
ware, &a. On the premises three expert glassware
engravers are kept constantly employed in engraving
designs and monograms for the leading Sydney families,
the steam companies, &o. The manager of the Sydney
branch is Mr. Gribbom.


NO. 1 DARLING ST
HARBOUR STRi
ILLUSTRATED PRICE L
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, wit
tacking for basting), without the i
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells; wi
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, ai
embroider curtains or antimaeassa
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our office
trades can be supplied. They are e
in running, strong, handsome, a
machine may be had on trial, EN r
CHARGE. Instruction at YOI
free. Every WERTHEIM Machi
KEPT IN REPAIR and worki
YEARS from the date of purcbasi
OF GOST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OP CHARC
samples by post. Country agt
liberal terms. BEALE and C
street, near Market-street, and
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcast
Bathurst. No matter in what pa:
live, we will supply you wit
MACHINE upon TIME PAYE
INTEREST.
HE A U S T
"HOME”SHUT
AMERICAN LOCKS'
SEWING MAC
.-pt EXPRESS,
W. K E
MANUFACTURING J
WATCH AND CLOCK
664 GEOEGE STEEET,
Opposite St. Andrew’s (
Medals of every description, Maso
sentation Trowels designed a
Premises.
DIAMOND SETT
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in i
Waltham Watches, from
Jg LISE’S PAPEE CU:
All communications to be
“ ELISE.”
No. 12 PARK STEEET,
Six doors from Georgi
Orders for Patterns cannot be
paid. Onr cut-out Paper Patten
style, cnt, and finish, being modelle<
Fashions, and are always sent pi
receipt of stamps or money order.
A >7! “I — EAO'DE C(
11, F. M. FAR
Established 17S
GOLD {MEDAL, [Moscow, 1872.
Vienna, 1873.
This Eah de Cologne, so favon
Anstralian public during the the 1
obtained at the last
PHILADELPHIA EX]
THE PRIZE MEI
and
FIRST PEIZ]
SYDNEY INTERNATIONA!
for its superior sweetness, streng
qualities, excelling all other comp<
It has become the great favourii
is extensively patronised by the
ELITE OF EUE(
The large and constantly-increasi
genuine 4711EAU DE COLOGNE,
but also in North and South Arnei
tralia, is further undeniable eviden
The public are respectfully warn
spurious imitations with the gen
changed into 7411, 1147, 4117, &c., &
The real genuine article which
Medal at the Vienna Exhibition is 1
Gothic blue and gold label (dill
others), and marked
F. M, FARINA
4711.
To be had at the principal perfn;
Store-keepers in town and country.
Sole Wholesale Agents—
PARROT BROTHERS, 12
11l
rjIHE NEW DAYIS SEWING- MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot be too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTEEMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agent 3,
674 George's treat.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The South Australian Ministry has resigned.
A new Administration has been formed under the same
leadership.
The Hon. Robert Wisdom, Attorney-General,
was presented with an address by his constituents at
Morpeth on the 17th.
Mr. T. M. Slattery’s resolution favouring the
remission of interest were negatived in the Assembly,
after a prolonged sitting, by 54 to 10.
The member for Burrowa is an Oppositionist.
And the Burrowa people wonder why Government delays
granting them a site for a Mechanics’ Institute.
The Evening Ghoul says that Mr. Poole,
M. P., is tough. Well, we could not go so far as to say
that, although we can answer for the fact that he is no
chicken.
Mr. William Forster has taken up the matter of
the resignation of Mr. Mason, the late Engineer-in-
Chief for Existing Railway Lines, and moved for the
production in the Assembly of all correspondence on
the subject.
Active debates on the Government railway policy.
The estimate for the double line from Homebush to
Waratah (Newcastle coal-fields) reduced to £2,000,000,
on account of a single line between the points mentioned
being considered sufficient.
There is considerable dissatisfaction among Sir
Henry Parkes’ prominent supporters, most of whom
reside in the railway suburbs, at the absence from the
Government railway programme of any project for the
long-promised extension from Kedfern into the city.
Sir Henry Parkes’ peculiar English is affording
immense fun to Australians in England, and to
Britishers who take an interest in colonial affairs. Mr.
Dennistoun Wood, commenting on Sir Henry’s state-
ment that the colonies “ had outgrown the experience
of returned colonists at home, and left them high and
dry on the sands," says : —“ The metaphor at the end
of the sentence is, indeed, not so intelligible.
One has seen all kinds of things, from ships down to
starfish, left high and dry on the sands: but they have
been so left because the tide has gone back, not because
the sea hao been outgrowing them. However, as it
seems that Sir Henry is a’poet and philosopher, ’ it
may be that his statement that the growth of the
colonies has left myself and other colonists, who have
net visited the colonies for many years, high and dry on
the sands, is merely a poetical flight in which my
prosaic mind is unable to follow him; or, in his capacity
of philosopher, he may behold more things in the sea
and on the sands * than are dreamt of in our philo-
sophy.’ " The foregoing extract is only a portion of a
letter occupying a column in a late issue of that ex-
cellent journal, The Colonies and India ; and in the
following number “our own Sweet William," ex-
Agent-General, taking his cue from Mr. Wood, thus
deals with Sir Henry “ I trust therefore to be par-
doned for oddiug that the politico-philological views of
Sir Henry Parkes, as above exemplified, have been since
carried out with a certain success by my removal from
the office of Agent-General for New South Wales,
virtually upon the ground of my not being able to
satisfy the Premier’s peculiar conceptions of English
phraseology. This colonial cowp d'etat was accomplished
by means of a voluminous correspondence and notable
minute of Governor and Executive Council, by reference
to which it will be seen that my offences against the
Ministerial code of dialects, and of course against that
of the dominant majority, for the time being, may bo
summarised under two ' heads:—l. That certain am-
biguous expressions of mine were construed by the
existing censorship as offensive, or, in the elegant
ipsissinia verba, • undisguised insolence,’ and 2. That
my imperfect education had unfitted me for the delicate
functions of private and confidential correspondence
with the Premier individually, which, according to the
Premier and Executive Council for the time being, are
included among the official duties of a Colonial Agent-
General."
The Jewellers’ Art in Sydney.
A visit to the establishment of Mr. T. M. Alcock, 673
George-street, Haymarket, which is shown in the ac-
companying engraving, will give some idea of the high
state to which the jeweller’s art has been brought in
Sydney. The establishment, which is situate directly
opposite the Post and Telegraph Offices at the Hay-
market, stands prominently out from among the other
business places by reason of its elegant appearance.
The front is in the Bond-street style, the woodwork
being of ebony, and the windows artistically arranged
so asto produce a very brilliant effect. The windows,
wherein are displayed some of the best specimens of
the art, present a dazzling appearance, and an inspec-
tion within the shop only adds to the effect produced
by this ex terior display. There are some splendid show
cases rising from floor to ceiling, in which are shown
some of the best description of ornamental clocks,
presentation cups, salvers, goblets, &o. In various
small cases are shown the goods for which Mr, Alcock’s
establishment ha< won special prominence. There are
diamond rings, diamond earrings, and diamond sets,
pendants, &c. These are the grandest specimens of the
jeweller’s art to be seen in Sydney. A pair of diamond
earrings worth 230 guineas is shown, as also a pendant
for 450 guineas, and rings 200 and 250 guineas each.
The diamonds—the finest Brazilians—are imported, and
the goods made up by experts employed oh the
premises. Presentation cups, Masonic and other
jewellery, are also produced in the very highest style—
the work in every branch, in fact, being altogether of
the better class. Mr. Alcock has just recently imported
largely of Nicholls and Neilson’s celebrated gold
watches, Walfhams, and silver hunting chronographs,
which latter are quite a new thing in these colonies.
The mechanical uortioa of the business is carried on at
the rear of the premises, where several men are
employed, and the work is under the immediate super-
vision of the proprietor. On the premises is one of the 1
“Bert safes yet seen in this colony—a solid steel article,
weighing two aud a half tons, made expressly to order
in England for the establishment. Mr. Aloock has
learnt his business in this city, and has built up in
>ght years a splendid and still increasing trade.
Messrs. Brown and Shaw’s
Printing and Manufacturing Stationery
Establishment.
Thk establishment of this well-known firm is situated in
I’itt-street, next the School of Arts, and its management
may be said to display unusual energy and business tact.
The firm, as now constituted, has been in existence but
eight months, yet it has already seeured one of the largest
businesses in the metropolis. Every branch of the art of
printing its in operation on the premises, and the two
members of the firm being practical tradesmen have
brought down the prices to the very lowest scale while
guaranteeing the best workmanship. The work comprises
general letterpress and job printing, lithography, copper-
plate, embossing, die-sin Icing, electro and stereotyping.
In addition to this, the business of general manufac-
turing stationers is carried on, as also machine-ruling,
bookbinding, printing,and paper bag making which latter
work is made a speciality, giving the establishment first
1 -osition of any in the colonies. The firm of Brown and
Shaw is ijhe only one in the colonies that manufacture
bags by machinery, and though they have new and
patented appliances for the work, they are at present
unable to supply half the demand. The capabilities of
rhe establishment, at present is three tons per week, and
is these bags are of the block bottom description, being
not only stronger than the others but much easier to
handle and fill, it will be at once seen how this par-
ticular branch of the city trade is going to where the
best mechanical skill is available. Additional ma-
chinery and two experts from London are being got out,
ind an average of ten tons per. week is being arranged
for. Fast printing appliances enable the firm to print
on the bags with equal expedition, the whole thing being
done at a cost hitherto charged for the bags alone. A
glance through the various departments of the works
diows that these gentlemen have made an excellent
disposition to ensure the beet work at the highest possible
speed and at the lowest scale. The retail stationery
lepartment is extensive, and its shelves, ranging from
floor to ceiling, are packed with every description of
stationery for offices, business houses, and schools, the
figures are absurdly low,—being especially attended to.
To the rear, adjoining, are the packing, sampling, and
itoring rooms. A large three-storey building adjoins and
here the printing, electrotyping, &c , are carried on. The
basement is filled with numerous printing machines
running day and night—all being driven by powerful
steam appliances. On the second floor are lighter printing
and lithographing macliines—all driven by steam power,
and here also are the electro and stereotyping machines
in operation. The work in these branches are tip top,
and there are on view the greatest variety of blocks or
engravings for tea-papers or bills that is to be found in
the Australian colonies. An electro and stereo of any
block almost can here be obtained at a moment’s notice -
a. very great convenience for newspaper or general
printers. Several hands are employed in these rooms.
The department where the bag-making is carried on is
entirely separated from every other portion of the works,
the only connection being by an elevated tramway, aver
which a trolly runs from the factory to the printing rooms.
I n the factory about twenty girls are employed, and they
are very expert at their work. Girls are also employed
in the bookbinding and varnishing rooms, the latter
being a place where show cards fer other houses, or for
the Arm themselves, receives a magnificently polished sur-
f ice, improving the appearance and ensuring greater
durability. On the premises may be seen one of the
greatest collections of lithographic stones to be found in
the colonies. A new line introduced is the illuminated
tea-papers, actually cheaper and better than the imported.
So here is an industry established in eight months, giving
steady lucrative employment to upwards of thirty or forty
people. By fair competition it has driven the foreign bag
manufacturer out of the market, and while a few months
ago, the Melbourne protectionist maufacturer divided with
the foreign manufacturer the trade of this city in the line
indicated, the tables are now turned; not only is our
Bade entirely in our own hands, but the war is being
carried into the very heart of the protectionist city,
Messrs. Brown and Shaw having now orders for several
of the leading Melbourne firms. Here is a good oppor-
tunity for the Government to give a bonus —as approved
bv the great freetrader—John Bright. At any rate if the
' t ivemment are slow to recognise the industry of the firm,
fie public are not —and an increasing business with everv
wading house of the colony the bonus they are now-
i joying.
MESSES. BROWN AND SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENT, PITT-STREET.


Miscellaneous
QLIFPORD, LOVE
TEA. IMPORTEI
EASTERN AND COl
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualitie
Do. Indian Prize Med
CHUTN1ES—Indian Pru
PRESERVES —Indian P:
COPPEE —Plantation No
Do. „ Pei
Do. „ No
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and P
SAGO
PEPPER—White and BI
OPPICES ;—348 GEORG
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B:
X O H N D
IMPOETEE Oi
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brassw]
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric !
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and lead Pipe, &
119 LIVEEPOOL STBEET
ass
PITTSTREC1
BEAUTIFUL,.
ALLWOOL
t r 0 T weed
TO
O
MARTIN & FAIN, 3S
SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
Single-fttrirow Ploughs, We have the largest assortment c
requirements of every district. Farmers, write us for information.
RANSQI
RITCHI
and 3. T1
We invite
HORNBY'S —Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
HOWARD’S New Pattern Ploughs, brought
out, and shown for the First Time in
in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
info
HARROWS—Zl
We recommend HOWABJ
have other makes, some of v
Howard's
Sifzag
Barrows.
Nos.
Width
Weight
Miscellanec
"O E I S C 0 E, DEYSD
397 Geoege St
76, 78, 145, 147 Yok
33 Pitt Ste]
IRONMONGERS, IRONMI
IMPOETEB
Invite attention to their exten
which besides being the largest i
varied; and comprises all the lat
Engines Engineers’ Material
Agricultural Implements, T
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, 1
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lam
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron
Builders’ Ironmongery, Char
Brass Foundry, Locks, 5
Squatters’ Bequisites, Wire, (
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Hope, Boiled J
And
GENEEAL IEONM
'^'ILLCOX
Ann
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E B B L E ■?
416 GEOEGE STI
MEEICAN MACHI1
M A
H. P. GEEGOEY j
No. 11. PITT-STB
Importers of all Desci
HIE
Have for Sale
J. A. Pay and Co.’s First Special
Machinery—-Sydney Exhibitic
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pur
Rubber and Leather Belting, Eaw
tucks packing round and sqna
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —Fo
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery Oil
quality quae an teed, Ac., Ac.
Send £o* Circulars an
KING STREET S
TAILOR
A*
L
0/
t
[
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY'S BELLOWS,
TAN G Y E STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LABGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
8HEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IEEIGATIN
Engines and Boilers of all si
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Fc
IN STOCK.
J EYES' PERFECT PURI
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Ai
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for hous
by all classes of Society. ■ From Rev. Geo. Woolnough,
for my throat I could not desire anything more ett'ecti
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sj
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. NewU
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney ;—My child had sore eyes for 2
one week, From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laureuce :
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and frn
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, S;
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agent
'M
BATHS. " :
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, op
PRACTICAL PAIR C V
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR-WORKER, STAGE j
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings
ggf Note the address— Oxford-street, opi
C3
O*
cc
Against the world
E. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Tvn First Prizes
J iU l ' ■
PR
IZE
m
2
r»
These goods
fresh, wholesi
and genuine.
Exhibition Jut
Eeport says
