

THE BULLETIN
Yol. 6.—No. *72.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 1881.
Price—3d.
bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 11, 1881.
“Our Beautiful Harbour.”
It is lucky that the time has come at last when
babblers can no longer score a point by inane pre.
tences of poetic sentiment about “ our beauti-
ful harbour.” The phrase, and the leer of
vamped-up enthusiasm with which it has been
customary to accompany it, have been hawked
about until no one can hear the one, or see the
other mantling a speaker’s countenance, without
being inclined to laugh in his face. The toast-
proposing asses who are so fond of rearing up on
their hind legs at picnic luncheons, steamship
spreads, launches, and such like, have maundered
about the harbour till they have associated it in
people’s thoughts with their own ridiculous
mages. One would think, to hear those people—
statesmen, municipal potentates, some of them—
that they had personally created the harbour, and
that its charms reflect credit upon their taste and
enterprise. Nothing could better expose the
emptiness of such people’s pretensions to have
deserved well of their country. What would be
thought of the deserts of a man who should pre-
sent to his acquaintance
a magnificent woman,
majestic, graceful, with
an indescribable charm
irradiating every fea-
ture, but with draggled
skirts, gapped teeth and
smirched face, with the
self-satisfied remark that
he found her a child of
nature, and had made
her what she now was ?
What credit would be
done to the guardian
who had knocked the
missing pearls from her
mouth, soiled her robes,
and smeared her coun-
tenance, although she
remained lovely still ?
And what honor would
be his who had permitted
her to remain still the
ignorant untutored sav-
age barely able to spell
and to scribble sprawl-
ing pothooks, in lien of
educating her in the arts
becoming to her sex, and
training her to the valu-
able economies of house-
wifery ? This is pre-
cisely the situation
which our public men
occupy with regard to
‘ ‘our beautiful harbour. ’ ’
They found it lovely,
and presenting natural
capabilities, equally for
the purpose of pleasure
and the requirements
of practical work—sus-
ceptible of an expansion absolutely without
limit. In a hundred places, ships of heaviest bur-
den could lie almost against the rocky foreshore;
endless miles of unsullied beaches were available
for recreation or wharfage, and were laved by
limpid water. The lumbering bullock-dray
from the interior could draw up a few yards
from the ship’s side. All the essentials for
the conduct of the largest trade in the most
economical manner were furnished to their hands.
Having received so splendid a gift from nature,
the rulers of the land immediately addressed
themselves to blunder it all away. They com-
menced by alienating the water frontages in every
direction. They proceeded by leading all their
drains into the harbour at the nearest points —
that is to say, as close to people’s noses as
possible. They continued, almost in our own day.
by fixing the terminal station of their railways at
such a distance from the water side as to involve
the maximum of inconvenience and expense to
exporters of the produce of the country. When
called upon to remedy that glaring blunder, they
distinguished themselves by extending the railway
to the shoalest and least accessible part of the
entire harbour, to which moreover, access was
barred by a permanent bridge, in which there was
but one opening, and that so narrow that none
but the smaller of craft could pass through it.
There has been grabble enough about “ our beau-
tiful harbour.” What sensible men now want is
to hear something about the excellence of our
port. All the talk about the beauties of the inlet
is cheap and worthless When all is said, it is
certain that the chatterers did not create it, and
could not have created it even had they tried.
But they could have converted it into an un-
rivalled port. Only a moderate exercise of fore-
sight and public spirit would have been requisite
to effect that. How comes it that about what was
possible and creditable to them they have been
dismally silent, while about an affair which is no
credit to them they have been blatantly diffuse ?
Our commerce is extending daily. Our railways
are being extended in all directions; and
converging lines will soon carry to the metropolis
the produce of the entire colony. It is ridiculous
to suppose that it will be any longer possible for
even the Minister most averse to the responsibility
of originating any enterprise to dodge out of con-
connecting our railway system effectually and
thoroughly with our shipping. No trumpery
makeshift will serve the purpose. New South
Wales is moving ahead, and people whose business
it is to guide her affairs should study what has
happened in other new countries, now a few stages
in advance. There is no denying that Sydney
possesses the harbour of Eastern Australasia, and
only sensible management is required to make that
harbour the port of this part of the world. First,
the railways have to be run to the water’s edge—
not merely at one spot, but so as to serve all the
wharfages. With Free-trade, and entire relief
from harbour dues and charges; with every
modern convenience for speedy unloading and for
quick despatch : in this part of the globe the port
of Sydney should be paramount over every other.
But if this is to be, members of Parliament must
exercise a great deal more of foresight and com-
prehension than they have hitherto done. Vic-
torians are preparing to spend no end of money to
bring the sea to their capital. It would be indeed
suicidal were New South Wales to neglect the in-
finitely easier and cheaper process of connecting
their capital and country with the sea. A brief
glance at the map of the port of New York would
open the eyes of many of the dull fellows who are
sent into Parliament. It won’t do to imagine that a
couple of hundred yards at Darling Harbour and
the flanks of the Circular Quay will serve the mari-
time trade of New South Wales if connected with
our railways. One must look ahead, and, if pos-
sible, steal a march upon all the world. Before
long, miles of wharfage will be needed. The appro-
priation of water frontages to that use will creep
round the harbour, skirt the Pyrmont peninsula,
leap to Balmain, and perhaps even invade the
North Shore. It is necessary to be prepared. Let
Ministers look to it.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Turner (Miss
Annis Montague.)
The success of the Montague-Turner English
Opera Company’s season at the Gaiety Theatre in
this city has scarcely any parallel in the history of
opera in these colonies. Financially, there has
been a magnificent result, and there can be no
question that in a musical sense the venture has
been no less satisfactory. Previous brief seasons of
the best Italian Opera have never been able to com-
mand such an unvarying excellence of attendance
as has been enjoyed by the company now at the
Gaiety. There is another point which gives to
this success additional prominence. No other troupe
that has ever been here has depended on the merits
of one or two of its leading artists for success.
But this, if we overlook that excellent singer, Mr.
Farley, and one or two others of the company,
has been the case with the Turners. These artists,
whose portraits grace our front page this week>
have been the draw at the Gaiety, night
after night for the whole season, having been
relieved but once or twice during that
period. Each opera as produced has been
so successful that it has had to be played
longer than was originally intended. The
prospectus having thus been interfered with,
the company find themselves compelled to hold
over till next season, which commences on their
return from Brisbane, several operas, including
the charming “ Mignon.”
Miss Annis Montague was bom at Honolulu,
Sandwich Islands, and is a daughter of one of the
first American missionaries who visited those
shores. Her parents were from the New England
States, and came from a stock that has proved
to be the back-bone of American greatness. Miss
Montague, having early exhibited remarkable
vocal talent, was placed under Uartel (Nilsson’s
tutor), in Paris, and continued her studies for
some time, finishing them under Emilio Belari,
whose salons, opposite the Grand Opera House,
Rue Halevy, were for years visited by the most
distinguished operatic artists of the day. Return-
ing to America, Miss Montague was engaged for
Italian and English Opera by the leading Ameri-
can entrepreneurs, Strakosch and Hess, and made
her dehut at New York in “ Lucia.” The press
recorded it as a brilliant operatic triumph. Her
appearance in “ Les Huguenots,” “Un Ballo,”
&c., were no less satisfactory, and her subsequent
career has been an unvarying run of successes.
On visiting the place of her birth recently, she
took advantage of the mail steamer, and came
from Honolulu to these colonies. Miss Montague
is an artiste in the full
enjoyment of her vocal
powers (a fact worthy
of note as far as the
Australian stage is con-
cerned) ; has a handsome
and most pleasant face ;
a charming manner, and
a rich soprano voice of
great compass and sweet-
ness all which are
backed up byf genuine
dramatic talents, such
as are not usually found
associated with operatic
excellence.
Mr. Charles Turner is
a native of Midlands,
England,—the famous
“ Notts,” which appears
resolved to extend its
tr i umphs from the
cricket field to the stage.
His musical career, curi-
ously enough,began with
cornet-playing, which, if
it did nothing more, en-
sured for him a splen.
did lung development,
that has subsequently
not been without great
advantage to him. His
vocal powers having
soon manifested them-
selves, Mr. Turner left
his father’s business and
proceeded to London, to
study under Schira, with
his brother, Mr. J. W.
Turner, then an Asso-
ciate of the London Aca-
demy. Proceeding to
America, after a short tour in South Africa,
Mr. Turner was offered an engagement by
C. D. Hess, and played five brilliant sea-
sons. As in opera, so in oratorio he has been
very successful in England and America. His
career in Australia has been a splendid one,
the critics, with hardly an exception, conceding
that he is one of the best tenors that have
appeared on the Australian stage. The Gaiety
season has been so successful that he has decided
on establishing, in conjunction with his talented
wife, apermament English opera in these colonies.
The season terminates on Saturday, and on the
preceding Friday evening a benefit will be tendered
to Miss Montague, when a special bill will be pro-
duced. The new season will be opened on the
25th July, with “Mignon;” and “Lucia,”
“ Elixir of Love.” &c., will fo^ow.
MR. CHARLES TURNER.
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE.


967 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
Many new things to be seen there.
It is said that a writ for libel has been served on
the Brisbane Telegraph, at the instance of Mr. Baza-
cott, editor of the Courier.
Mr. Cuthbert, the late Postmaster-General of
Victoria, decided that no lady should be appointed to
an office worth more than £ IOQ per annum. Shabby.
The tobacconists of Sydney closed their shops
on Wednesday, in order to attend their first annual
picnic. Numbers of disappointed lovers of the weed
were to be seen throughout the day disconsolately
gazing at the placards on the shutters.
It appears that the reason his Honor Chief
Justice Lilley respectfully declined to accept the knight-
hood conferred upon him by the Queen, was that the
dignity was that of Knight Bachelor, and inferior to the
title of K.C.M.G., conferred on Mr. Bell and Mr.
Palmer.
Mr. P. R. Spofforth, the “ demon bowler,” did
a plucky thing the other day. A horse attached to a
waggonette, with a young lady in it (in the vehicle, you
know, not in the horse), bolted furiously. “Spotf."
caught the trap, got in at the back, and pulled the
brute —that’s to say the horse—up just in time to save
the occupant from a smash. The fair one is a Sydney
lady, and that she is beautiful va sans dire. We trust
soon to be supplied with further information, so that
we may be enabled to wind up the story in the orthodox
manner.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received,
—Adv.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Theodore Staigbe, analytical
chemist." —Advt.
“ Balmain.— To Messrs. Edward Rowe and Co.,
Sydney.—l have no hesitatation in saying that ‘‘Ban
person's Podophyllin Lozenges ’’ are the best and most
effectual aperient medicine I have ever taken, and I
with confidence state my opinion, that any person giv*
ing them a trial will be fully convinced of their value as
a Family Medicine to keep in the house; especially
where there are children they are iflvaluable. —Hbhbt
Phillips.—July 12,1880.” —Advt.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts. U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or mu-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANT, Waltham. Mass.— Adv.
The American Novelty Company, Pitt-street,
have just opened a new line of American manufactures
in the shape of malachite ware, now for the first time
imported to this colony., The articles comprised in the
collection on view include toilet ornaments, butter
coolers and other dining-room requisites, goolets,
glasses, biscuit barrels, tobacco boxes, &c., all of a very
pleasant pattern and shape. The astonishing feature
about this new line of goods is the wonderfully low
figures at which they are offered to the public. The ad-
dition to the business premises of the second floor now
fixed up as a showroom under the style of the Golden
Rule Bazaar is really worth visiting. In this room are
electric engines in miniature, working—thus showing
the power can which be effected by motors of this class.
There are few things manufactured in tbe world that
this enterprising company does not offer to the Sydney
public. The old maxim of the golden rule is maintained
in all their dealings.—[Advt.]
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Practical Christianity.
“A woman on the streets is, or should be, an awful
spectacle.” So we wrote last week. There are other*
who feel with ns. There are in Sydney, thank heaven,
women who do not gather up their skirts from contact
with a Bister who lies morally wounded by the roadside.
There are women who have a real comprehension of the
spirit of the Master, and are not fearful lest by the
touch of a tainted girl the virtue should go from them-
selves. We have nothing but contempt for those
immorally moral “ ladies ” who skip out of the way of
fallen women. They probably know their own suscepti-
bilities best, and we are prepared to grant that their
own condition may be so critical that a very small con-
tact wonld infect them with the moral malady they
seem so nervous about. Bat we go heart and soul with
the large-minded, wholesome women who see the affair
from the opposite point of view, and are less fearful of
infection than hopeful of being able to communicate
healing virtue. We may leave the one sort of " ladies"
to make broad their phylacteries and to invest in plush-
covered prayer books, while we join Ihands with tke
Christian women who only widen the hem of their gar-
ments so that there may be more for weak sisters to
clutch at. Under the guidance of a woman of this
sort, whose excellencies are far more widely felt than
her name is known, an endeavour is being made to start
a temporary home for discharged female prisoners.
This is what we call practical Christianity. A more
“ womanly” work could scarcely be undertaken. Oar
gaols always contain a number of young girls who have
only slipped at the onset of life. There are among
these, petty pilferers, and others who, while offending
against the rights of property or the principles of in-
tegrity,have still preserved their womanly purity. When
each are cast out to begin life again it goes hard with them
Contempt, suspicion, contumely meet them at every
turn. They are ranked with the desperately fallen, and
the temptations to become as bad as they;are regarded
are fearfnl. Some, again, totally fallen, are not
depraved. They have been swindled out of their virtue.
Their youth and inexperience have made them the prey
of designing and unscrupulous men. They may retain
the instincts of integrity and the attractions of an
amiable disposition. But the world lies in wait to rob
them, defenceless as they are, of all that is left to them.
Only woman can effectually interpose and rescue them.
Too many shirk the splendid duty. But there are some
who are less wickedly squeamish. This home is to be
started. At least, whatever may be ladies' mincing
affectation of delicacy, there caa be no excuse for refus-
ing or failing to help the plan with money. The honest-
est and most gennine help is that personal co-operation
which true, pure women can so powerfully exercise.
Bat allowing for differences in disposition, there are
many who will sufficiently do their share by giving
enough to involve some exercise of self-denial with
respect to their own adornment or personal gratifica-
tion.
“For so Little !”
Terrestrially speaking, Mr. Wilkinson is no more.
He has gone to the next world, where, we trust, he will
turn out a much-improved style of person. He cannot,
at any rate, become much worse, and our hopes in
respect to his improvement are based on the fact that
before leaving ns he was kind enough to admit
that he had committed a few robberies. He had spent
two-thirds of his life in gaol, and everyone knew it; bat
even so, it was condescending for a gentleman of hia
stamp to own to anything unpleasant. We really do
feel an interest in the future of Mr. Wilkinson, who
murdered an old man and a young woman for the sake
of three shillings. “In that untried variety of being
which spreads (beyond us, who knows but that, in onr
several progress from grade to grade and world to
world, onr souls, though in far distant ages, may meet
again —one dim and shadowy memory ’’ —of his crime
—“ the link between ns I" We are told that Mr. Wil-
kinson “died resolutely," and appeared "quite con.
trite," hut that he denied ever having murdered
anybody. And then, just before he fell through the
trap, he devoutly kissed the crucifix. In plain English,
Mr. Wilkinson died with a lie on his lips. Well, little
else could have been expected of him. He was a white
man, and only in that respect did he differ from the
Kanaka who, the other day, butchered Mr. and Mrs.
Jarvis to obtain a pair of boots and a shawl—the
former to wear, and the latter to make a sail in order
that he might go and see his brother. Mr. Wilkinson,
having hut two legs, wasn’t, in fact, half as good as
the dog that bit the baby's nose off last week. He was
essentially a vulgar criminal. He was always either in
liqnor or in gaol, and when he was in gaol he had to be
separated from the other prisoners. People of his
stamp generally get better at the finish, and
become very polite and forgiving, so we suppose
that when Mr. Wilkinson made his last bow he
freely pardoned everybody, including the judge and
jury. Mr. Wilkinson had nothing in common
with your (esthetic criminal, who forges cheques and
plays the organ. He was, no donbt, born of brutal
parents—be lived like a brute and died like one. It is
pare moonshine to say that anything would have
altered his nature after he had once been in gaol. No
doubt be did not care for gaol, but that was only be-
cause—like the rest of us humans —he never knew when
he was well off. Otherwise, what had he to grumble
at P Society fed and clothed him well, provided him
with a little easy exercise, kept him out of affaires
d‘amour, and occasionally let him loose for a holiday,
which he used to the best advantage. And Mr. Wilkin-
son never overstepped his leave. He enjoyed himself a
little too much during his last holiday, and has now
left ns to undergo in other spheres that purification and
development which were unattainable for him in this.
Like a good many other people who have preceded him,
Mr. Wilkinson wouldn’t listen to the priest until he
came in company with the hangman.
Professor Death.
“Who shall decide when doctors disagree?” is a
question which has never been satisfactorily answered.
A still more vital question has, however, just cropped
up—namely, “Who shall decide when doctors agree 7"
Dr. Warren, Dr. Jones, and Dr. Schuette were of one
mind with regard to the diagnosis of Mrs. Nixon’s
case. In the presence, and therefore presumably with
the concurrence of Drs. Milford, Weight, Clunk,
Cox, MacLaubin. Marshall, and Hogg, an entirely
uncalled-for operation was performed, and the patient
perversely died. She was buried, and the learned
gentlemen shook their sagacious heads and held their
still more sagacious tongues. The grave held but one
secret the more. Had not the town scavenger turned
resurrectionist for a spell and disinterred the hidden
mystery, nothing would ever have been known of the
blunder of ten doctors. Now, we don't blame the
medical men for making a mistake. They don't often
agree, but when they do, their unanimity is wonderfnL
Men of all conditions are constantly blundering, and a
fool with a diploma doesn’t cease to be a fooL Every
sensible man knows that the medical practitioners whom
he comes across in the course of his life, and whom he
takes notice of, trying to look profound and appe«|
inscrutably sagacious, are just average samples o
humanity after all. A really smart and clever man is
the exception in the medical profession, j ust os is the case
among lawyers, or engineers, or journalists. But one
can’t get outside of human nature, and after all, no one
and no class knows more of human ailments and of their
proper treatment than the doctor. As one has to run the
risk of calling in a fool, anyway, it is decidedly best to
call in one who is likely to know something about the
business in hand. It would be idiotic, for example, te
send off for a surgeon to look at your steam-engine
when it gets out of order, merely because most of the
engineers you have met are duffers, and because,
although you are aware there are first-rate men among
them, you haven't had the chance of finding out which
these are. But we don't mean to reflect upon the
doctors who killed Mrs. Nixon. Taken as a sample lot,
we conceive they are as competent and careful doctors
as could have been collected anywhere. The case seems
to have been really abnormal so far as it could be
diagnosed, although not actually so. Perhaps Dr.
Warren was just a trifle too eager to operate, latterly;
but that was only after he had thoroughly and fairly
satisfied himself that operating was the right thing.
The result was merely unfortunate, and the jury
returned a very reasonable verdict, not attributing
blame to any one. But the question we propounded
will be asked by patients. Who shall decide when
doctors agree ? The only answer seems to be—
Professor Death.
One More Unfortunate!
While yet the Sydney public was being nightly moved
to tenderness and sympathy by the “ well-sung woes"
of that pathetic story, told so touchingly by Gcithe, of
Marguerite’s trustfulness and fall, a kindred tale came
to us from Bathurst—that respecting the fate of the
girl Margaret Cue—calculated to throw a lurid light
of its own on one of the dark places of onr social
humanitarian system. Cast forth from beneath the roof
that had temporarily sheltered her, and, sent away
ailing and unattended from the hospital where she hod
applied for relief, under circumstances at which the
pure shudder and the charitable often withhold the
hand, what must not have been the agony and despair
of this forlorn girl, while enduring the sufferings of her
unhappy condition.’in that nnpitying Bathurst street I
Bereft of that atmosphere of light and of maidenly
purity which invests as with a halo her less-tempted
sister —the victim of her own trustful and fragile
nature, the consequences of which pursued
her even to the death, she has surely paid
to the full the social penalty of her fall. She,
poor creature, like that other Marguerite, has drained
the cup of human bitterness and shame to the dregs;
but what of the author of her misery P He, who made
it his mission to rob his hapless victim of all that
makes girlhood lovely, may still walk his way unmo-
lested. We have,unhappily,no legal weapon wherewith to
wreak social justice on the perpetrator of this crime.
While the consequences ore punished, the cause and
promoter goes unscathed. Human ghouls may gratify
their lusts, while their miserable victims are left to die.
Judge Windetkr, we remember, introduced a measure,
when Attorney-General, to deal with cases of this kind;
the provisions of his Seduction Bill might with great
propriety have been adopted in the present instance,were
the author of this girl’s misery discoverable. But we re-
fer to the case itself more particularly with a view to
bring out the special defect in our humanitarian system
which its circumstances disclose At first glance, it
seems apparent that someone was to blame in turning
the applicant from the hospital doors. The nature of
the case warranted attention and kindness, instead of
repnlse and neglect. In view, however, of the
reputation of the Bathurst hospital, which is univers-
ally regarded as a credit to the charitable instincts o
the colony generally, we have no desire to com
mit ourselves to the obvious injustice of
either unnecessarily censuring that institution, or of
blaming its officials, who are merely the zealous instru-
ments of a defective system. We wish simply to point
ont the advisability of something being done to remedy
the defect. Sydney has its Lying-in Hospital, and its
Foundling Asylum. Why not extend the benefits of
these institutions throughout the colony by establish-
ing branches in the larger inland towns P Had either
existed in Bathurst, this unfortunate creature —
humanly speaking—had not died. There is obviously
something wanting in that system which casts abroad
the sufferers in these cases, as waifs and strays, to de-
pend solely on the benevolence of those who can afford
to ignore the cold conveniences and conventionalities
of life. If there were in each country town one good
woman who wonld imitate the zeal ef one in Sydney,
elsewhere referred to, how much agony might be spared
to unhappy girls, how much crime arrested 1
Little Mirams.
It is the hnmonr of the hour among Conservative news-
paper writers and correspondents to jeer at the
Victorian politician whom they are pleased to nick-
name “ Little" Mirams. There is nothing to arrest the
flood of facetionsness, for even many Liberal journals
in Victoria which have become from habit mere pane-
gyrists of the Beery Government, tilt at Mirahs. To
the Conservatives he is an “ awful example;” to the
Victorian Berryite organs he is a traitor. Looking into
the kernel of this outburst of satirical invective, how-
ever, it becomes apparent that the true reason for the
vehemence of the attacks upon Mirahs is not that he
is little, but that he is displaying symptoms of incipient
greatness. He has given up following, and is taking to
leading. He has separated himself from parties, and
betaken himself to standing by ideas. Mr. Berry,
fatigued by having borne upon his shoulders for years
the chief burden of a long and exacting political contest,
begins to show signs of weariness. He who a year or
two ago would hear of nothing bat complete and endur-
ing snscess—who defied the united powers of Con-
servative ideas and monied organisations—begins to
falter and to listen to sounds of compromise. The
veteran is worn out, and the banner wavers in his
wearied hand. If it droop, then all his battles have
been in vain. He will not, however, recognise that his
day is over and his vigor expended, and he regards with
anger and peevishness the lieutenant who moves to set
up the standard as firmly as ever. Little Mirahs 1 The
Director Barbas once spoke in like tone of a “petit
faquin " —a petty knave—who might be serviceable in
quelling risings. The "petit faquin ” was named
Napoleon Bonaparte I Satire and laughter are good
extinguishers for impostors, but their employment has
been sometimes ill-directed. It will be impossible to
laugh more contemptuously at little Mirams than was
done years ago at John Bright. Men do not live for
ever. Political dogs have their day. There would be
nothing to surprise were the successor of little Berrt
to be little Miraxs, one of these days. When a baby
begins to stand alone one doesn't laugh at it.
“Moral Obliquity.”
There was a man named Stapleton, a farmer in the
Kiama district, and to him was sent a child, an orphan
of the State, as servant apprentice. Intolerable cruelty
forced her to fly from his service, and then a terrible
history became known. This poor orphan apprentice,
only a little thing, a child, a girl, had suffered strangely
at thi» man’s hands. He had stripped her to the waist,
and lashed her with thongs ; he had commanded her
utterly to denude herself, that the torture and outrage
might be more complete; he had beaten her repeatedly
with quince rods; he had thrust her into the fire,
careless that boiling water tilted over her. Her poor
body bore tokens of scars and wounds innumerable,
though barely discerned through the dense accumula-
tions of filth. In this plight she appeared before the
sovereign majesty of the law to seek and obtain pro-
tection. And having saved, the law stretched out its
hand to punish, but therein failed utterly. Had the
cose been brought in this form, and that form, said the
magistrate, a fuller reprisal might have ensued. The
defendant was fined no less a sum than ten pounds.
The price of a cow and a half. One of the daily paperst
which objects to “word-painting," terms the man’s
conduct “ moral obliquity of the grossest kind." At
the risk of " painting " —which we regard as preferable
to word “daubing,” at any time—we don’t call the
conduct anything of the sort. There is neither morality
nor obliquity about it. It is immorality straight. The
price of a cow and a half for the inhaman abuse of an
orphan girl I What have cows to do with it ? Cats are
more germane to the matter. Oh, Justice I which
condemns us to pay a thousand pounds for trying to
save uncared-for girls from destruction, and mulcts a
scoundrel who outrages modesty and humanity in his
treatment of an orphan girl entrusted to his charge, in
ten pounds, who will tear off the bandage from your
eyes P
SOCIAL.
A Masonic ball on a large scale comes off at
Adelong on 24th inst.
Mr. Commissioner Hamilton has been appointed
extra aide-de-camp to the Governor of S. Australia.
Mr. Hassell, P. and 0. Co.’s agent at Perth,
gave a ball oh Friday last in honour of the Princes, who
were present.
The Glebe Rowing Club annual ball took place
on Thursday night last, at the local Town Hall. Plain
and fancy drees. The latter in a minority, and “ Folly"
the best.
The band of H.M.S. Inconstant will perform at
the bazaar in aid of the Melbourne Hospital for sick
children. The Australasian suggests that a navigating
lieutenant be raffled.
A marriage, it is understood,has been arranged,
and will shortly take place, between a well-known paper
manufacturer and the eldest daughter of a veteran
politician now in office.
The private ball at Ipswich was a success in
every way. A Sydney beauty carried off the palm, but
the prettiest dress was that of a Brisbane belle —white
silk, beautifully flowered with crewel work.
The great ball at Melbourne Exhibition Building
resulted in a loss of £4OO, owing to the large expense
incurred in decorating the hall. However, the decora-
tions will serve for the festivities when the Princes
arrive.
The “ Imported Governesses” are the rage just
now in Brisbane. One of them had a big offer last
week, but it was looked upon as “ stealing a march" by
the lady who brought them out—but not for that
purpose.
The Wairabapa Standard save that at Lady
Gordon's first levee “ the shoddy aristocracy of
■Wellington" put in an appearance. And all that
sarcasm because Mrs. Standard's best frock was in the
wash. Misery I
A “ marriage in high life,” exactly on the lines
of the Bortlett-Coutts affair, is shortly to be celebrated
with pomp and circumstance at Melbourne. The
venerable bride comes from the North, and the youth-
ful groom calls a medico “ father.”
The fancy dress ball held at the Warwick Hall,
Newcastle, the other day, revealed two facts. 1. That
the young ladies don’t spend much on dresses, and that
they have very retiring tastes. 2. That the young
gentlemen spend their money on something else.
The Oddfellows’ ball at Queanbeyan on Queen’s
Birthnight passed over very pleasantly. The music was
excellent, the ladies' dresses in admirable taste, and the
dancing all that could be desired. A young lady dressed
in black, with cardinal plush and white lace trimmings,
was the acknowledged belle.
The Japanese man-of-war Ruijo is still at
Hobart. “ Serciety" is delighted, for the vessel carries
a whole shipload of officers —one for every girl in the
city. The gallant little Japs., we are pleased to hear,
have now become quite civilised, and have left off the
barbarian habit which characterised them in Sydney—
that of carrying in the street big brown paper parcels
of soap, “ taJty,"and jews’ harps.
Ralph and Josephine, of the Hobart swell
“ Pinafore ” Club, were married last week. “ A clergy-
man was ready to unite the happy pair *’ on Thursday,
and that day saw an event long looked forward to with
expectancy by the Tasmanian haut ton, the ranks of
which embrace the numerous "sisters, cousins, and
aunts ’’ of the bride. Mr. Willie Benson, the bride-
groom, is the son of Dr. Benson, of this city, and his
consort, Miss Lucy Westbrook, is one of the most
accomplished and popular of the many bright-eyed,
rosy-cheeked daughters of Tasmania. The presents
numbered 150.
A big scandal has missed fire in Dunedin. A
lady who moves in the highest circles found that her
husband was getting along very well indeed with the
Sretty housemaid. She waited patiently, and caught
im. Bat, in her excitement, she made a mistake
regarding the identity of the female, and spread among
a number of fashionable acquaintances scandal con-
cerning an innocent woman —a nurse. The latter heard
of the accusation when in a neighboring district from a
lady in high position. Legal proceedings were im-
mediately instituted against the husbands of six ladies
in the best positions in Dunedin for defamation of
character. They have settled matters by each paying
the aggrieved party £5O, or £3OO in all.
On Thursday evening, June 2, the return ball
given by the gentlemen of the Mudgee district to the
Hon. G. H. Cox, M.L.C., and Mrs. Cox, and the Misses
Cox, took place at the Mechanics’ Institute, which was
gaily decorated for the occasion. There were about 140
guests present by invitation, amongst whom were about
40 or 50 visitors and a good sprinkling of the fair sex.
There was a great variety of costumes, about half the
guests being in fancy dress, a great many of which were
identical with those worn at the ball given by
the Hon. Q. H. Cox a few weeks ago. The
magnificent dress worn by the lady of a Merriwa
squatter attracted most attention. Amongst the gen-
tlemen there were several with new costumes, includ-
ing a stockman, a brigand, Tobias, and Ned Kelly. A
great deal of amusement was caused by the appearance,
late in the evening, of a sable couple, who danced
gracefully together—one of the characters being
sustained by a leading solicitor. Dancing was kept up
till 5 a.m. The refreshments, supplied by Mr. T.
Brooke, of the Royal Hotel, gave great satisfaction.
According to the Independent it is generally admitted
that the ball was one of the most successful social
re-anions which has taken place in Mudgee for many
years.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
British Commons adjourned till 9fch June.
Cape of Good Hope loan of two millions floated
at 98J.
Further reinforcements have been sent to the
forces in Ireland.
Turkey is being pressed to hand over the terri-
tory ceded to Greece.
Gladstone will take vigorous steps to deal with
absenteeism from Ireland.
Tenders for New South Wales two million loan
opened June 8. Declared minimum, 102.
Twenty conspirators caught while completing
preparations to assasinate the new Czar.
Many English papers urge the Government to
effectually suppress the Irish Land League.
In Ireland daily affrays between the people and
authorities, in connection with process-serving.
Alexander Third’s coronation postponed because
the Russian army is suspected of Nihilistic sympa-
thies.
Sir Stafford Northcote assails the Irish Land
Bill, and denounces the feebleness of the Government's
Irish policy.
The Derby was run with this result: —Loril-
lard’s Iroquois, 1; Sharpe's Peregrine, 2; Watson’s
Town Moor, 3.
Professor Robertson Smith deposed for heresy
by the Presbyterian General Assembly. 163 votes
against him. 127 members protested.
Peasantry of County Clare openly resisted evic-
tions, and fired on the troops with Snider rifles. Fire
was returned. One peasant killed, many wounded.
Only Sir Samuel Wilson, of Victoria, and
Mr. C. B. Fisher, of South Australia, exhibit at the
great wool show now on at the Crystal Palace, Syden-
ham.
Violent scenes in the House of Commons on the
night of the 3rd. Irish Land Bill on, and Irish members
obstructing. O’Kelly, member for Roscommon, sus-
pended.
A Roland for His Oliver.
At a dinner in Maryborough, Queensland, some time
time ago, there were present, among others, Nicholas
Tooth and John Annear, two well-known cits. The
latter gentleman, who has the “ gift of the gab," pro-
posed in the course of the evening as a toast, “ The
Two Nicks—Old Nick and Nick Tooth," at which there
was great applause. Nick arose, grave as a judge, aud
when the noise had subsided, said he fully appreciated
the honor conferred on him in mentioning his name
with that of Jack’s most intimate friend. He hardly
knew how to requite the kindness, but as one good turn
deserved another, he would give—“ The Two Jacks—
Jack Annear and JaekAssl" Jack collapsed, and th*
company went into hysterics.
Intercolonial Football.
New South Wales Association Rules. —This season
promises to be a busy one for the clubs playing under
these rules, as two intercolonial matches have been
arranged with Victoria—one in Melbourne on July Ist,
and one in Sydney some time in September; and i*
addition to these, the Melbourne Football Club, the
“crack” club of the sister colony, /purpose visiting
Sydney on their own account to play a series of matches
between July 9th and 16th. The play of this club must
be worth looking at, for on lost Saturday—although it
was raining the greater part of the time—about 12,000
people witnessed the first match this season with their
old rivals, the Carltons. The match resulted in a win
for Melbourne by four goals to two. The first match
under the new rales will be played to-day (Saturday)
on the Association cricket-ground, between Fast
Sydney and Sydney. From the form shown by the
two clnbs, a very good game may be expected.
2
June 11, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


THE MAMMOTH SALE !
' THE MAMMOTH SALE !
ON THE GROUND.
SATURDAY, JUNE 11th.
CROYDON RAILWAY STATION.
HORDERN’S ESTATE,
now to be known as
THE HIGHBURY ESTATE,
THE HIGHBURY ESTATE,
And which includes
LARGE HOUSES,
DETACHED VILLAS,
COMFORTABLE COTTAGES.
Also,
BUSINESS SITES
VILLA SITES
COTTAGE SITES.
fJ|HIS PROPERTY having been recently purchased
by the
ANGLO-AU STEAL TAN, INVESTMENT, FINANCE,
AND LAND COMPANY (Limited),
Will be sold by Auction on the following easy terms,
viz.:—
10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT ,
and the balance in 36 monthly payments, at 5 per cent,
interest, and the Company will assist pur-
chasers to build, if desired.
No expense has been spared by the giving up of land
for streets and by the removal of all reserves placed on
the property by the previous owner, to make this the
MOST POPULAR SUBDIVISION.
A MAIN STREET WILL BE CARRIED PROM THE
RAILWAY STATION,
and also from the CROYDOST RAILWAY STEPS, to
meet Boundary-street, which divides the Property from
the
WINDS ORVILLE ESTATE.
Back entrances have also been given where the slop
features of the Land render it desirable, and
a great many of the unsightly and
so-called “ buildings ” will
be removed.
| THE HIGHBURY ESTATE
is situate East and West of the
CROYDON RAILWAY STATION,
and it is in contemplation to erect a Railway GOODS
SIDING for the convenience of persona resident at
CROYDON.
THE HIGHBURY ESTATE
is
VERT ELEVATED,
VERT CONVENIENT,
and
VERT LIBERALLT SUBDIVIDED.
LITHOGRAPHIC PLANS NOW READT.
THE FENCES HAVE BEEN REMOVED.
THE LOTS PEGGED OUT.
THE STREETS TURF-LINED,
and
EVERYTHING WILL BE DONE TO ENABLE
BUYERS TO IDENTIFY THE LOTS.
Pamphlet Books containing details of all the Build-
ings, also a plan showing the LAND for SALE are
now ready.
HARDIE & GORMA N,
AUCTIONEERS.
IMPORTANT
AND
INTERESTING STATEMENTS.
Bead, Mark, and Inwardly Digest—Some-
thing for Everybody.
PURITY OF FAMILY MEDICINES OF
THE UTMOST IMPORTANCE.
HOP BITTERS!
ABE THE
Purest, Best, and Cheapest Medicine ever
Made.
THEY ABE COMPOUNDED PEOM
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (PO-
DOPHYLLIN ) & DANDELION.
The Oldest, Best, most Eenowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and in
addition contain all the best and most
effective curative properties of all other
Bitters, being the Greatest BLOOD PUBI-
PIER and life and health restoring agent
on earth.
No disease or ill-health can possibly long
exist where these Bitters are used, so
varied and perfect are their operations.
They Give New life and Vigor to the
Aged and Infirm.
To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary Men,
Ladies, and all those whose sedentary
employments cause irregularity of the
Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or Kidneys, or
who require an Appetiser, Tonic, and mild
Stimulant, these Bitters are invaluable,
being highly curative, tonic, and stimu-
lating, without intoxicating.
No matter what your failings or symp-
toms are, or what the disease or ailment
is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t wait until you
are sick, but if you only feel bad or miser-
able, use the Bitters at once. It may save
your life. Hundreds have been saved by
so doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask you* Chemist, Druggist, or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your friends
suffer, but use and urge them to use Hop
Bitters.
Eomember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged nostrum, but the puerest, cheapest,
and best Medicine ever made, and no per-
son or family should be without it.
If you have nausea, want of appetite,
flatulency, dizziness, and feverish symp-
toms, you are suffering from COSTIVE-
NESS, and HOP BITTEES is the surest
Cure.
If your vital forces are depressed, if yon
have a feeling of general lassitude and
weakness, are easily fatigued, perspire
freely on going to sleep, are short of breath
on every slight effort, and have a general
feeling of melancholy and depression, you
are suffering from
General Debility,
and HOP BITTEES remove it all.
If you have a sense of weight or fulness
in the stomach a changeable appetite,
sometimes voracious, but generally feeble;
a morbid craving; low spirits after a full
meal, with severe pain for some time after
eating; wind rising on the stomach, sour
stomach; vomiting and fluttering at the
pit of the stomach, and a soreness over
it; nausea, headache, or some of these
symptoms, you are suffering from
Dyspepsia,
and HOP BITTEES will permanently
cure you.
If you have a dry, harsh, and yellow skin,
a dull pain in the right side, extending to
the shoulder blade and pit of the stomach ;
a tenderness over the region of the liver,
and sometimes an enlargment of this
organ; a sense of tightness and uneasiness
in the neighbourhood of the stomach and
liver: yellowness of the eyes; bowels
irregular, generally disposed to looseness;
a hacking or dry cough; irregular appe-
tite; shortness of breathing; feet and
hands generally cold; tongue coated white;
a disagreeable taste in the mouth; low
spirits; blotches on the face and neck;
palpitation of the heart; disturbed sleep;
heartburn; disinclination to exertion—if
you have any of these symptoms, yon are
suffering from
Liver Complaint,
and HOP BITTEES will cure you.
If you have a complaint which few under-
stand an none will give you credit for—an
enfeebled condition; a goneness throughout
the whole system; twitching of the lower
limbs ; a desire to fly all to pieces, and a
fear that you will; a steady loss of strength
and health —any of these symptoms show
that you are suffering from that hydra-
headed disease
Nervousness,
and HOP BITTEES will effectually cure
you.
CLEANSE, PUEIPY, AND ENEICH THE BLOOD
WITH
HOP BITTERS,
AND YOU WILL HAVE NO SICKNESS OE
SUFPEEING.
Large, square-panelled, amber-colour bottles. White
label with green hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other. Price, ss. No other form, size, or price are
Sen nine. Am. Hop Bitters Company, Manufacturer
lochester, N. J , U.S., A.
To be obtained of all Chemists and Druggists.
MONTEFIiiBE, STEWART, & CO.,
General Agents,
ydney, N.S.W., Australia.
HEAP LAND AT RANDWICK,
CLOSE TO THE TEAM TEEMINTJS.
tar FEEE PASSES BT TEAM TO THE RAND-
WICK LAND SALE, NEXT SATUEDAY.
BAY VIEW ESTATE,
EANDWICK HEIGHTS.
AUCTION SALE, ON THE QEOUND.
SATURDAY ME 11.
30 PINE BUILDING ALLOTMENTS,
commanding splendid views of Botany Bay, Ac., Ac.
PEONTAGES to-
PEEOUSE EOAD
HOWAED-STREET
NELSON-STEEET
IVY-STEEET.
Each Lot has abont 40 FEET FEONTAGE by
DEPTHS of 150 FEET.
SEC. 1.-5 ALLdTMENTS fronting IVY-ST.
SEC. 2.-9 ALLOTMENTS fronting PEEOUSE-
ST„ HOWAED-ST , and NELSON-ST.
SEC. 3.-8 ALLOTMENTS fronting HOWAED-ST.
NELSON-ST., and IVY-ST.
(as per Lithographs)
WITHIN THEEE MINUTES’ WALK of the TEAM
TEEMINUS at EANDWICK.
THE MOST ACCESSIBLE LAND in the MARKET.
TEEMS : 15 PEE CENT. DEPOSIT, balance by 15
MONTHLY PAYMENTS, interest 5 per cent.
HARDIE and GORMAN will sell by pnblic
auction, at 3 p.m., SATURDAY, 11th JUNE,
ON THE QEOUND,
30 allotments. Bay View Estate, Eandwick, sub-
divided by Mr. Surveyor Atchison.
LITHOS. READY.
FEEE TEAM TICKETS OBTAINABLE at the
ROOMS.
Money can always be made by buying CHEAP LAND
in a good suburb.
THE -
BRUSH FARM
SALE!
ON THE GROUND !
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
11th JUNE.
AT HALF PAST 2,
SHARP !
LITHOGRAPHS ON APPLICATION.
EASY TERMS.
MILLS, PILE, & GILCHRIST,
AUCTIONEERS.
Although pitt street is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
ARGEST ESTABLISHMENT
I KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
OP THE
ASIATIC ITEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next. School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST.
ISS J C avaTea Tea i 28 ’ 28 3s - 39 43 « 9
Pure Indian Tea } per lb ’
CHINA GROWN TEAS. Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended to.
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 2id per lb.
Although pitt street is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Although pitt street is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Our correspondent at Auckland, in a letter
dated 2nd June, sends us the following footlight flash-
ings:— “Herr Bandmann, Louise Beaudet, J. G.
Cathcart, and a fair company are playing at the Theatre
Royal to fairly-filled houses. Personally, lam an
admirer of Bandmann’s acting; Cathcart is able and
experienced, and Louise Beaudet plays leading lady
fairly. The season terminates on June 4. —Professor
and Madame Haselmayer are mystifying and amusing
the public at the Lone Star Hall, but the houses are
not commensurate with the excellent entertainment
provided. Haselmayer has had no equal here, and his
only drawback is an imperfect knowledge of the English
language.—Pollard and Reynolds’s Lilliputian “ Pina-
fore ’’ company open in the Royal on the 6th. A big
business is predicted.—Ghiloni’s waxworks exhibition
was fairly patronised during its short stay. The exhi-
bition will be taken to Sydney to-day.
♦ • *
Alice Oates is still alive and well. It was her
sister who died.
• * •
Mr. W. R. Chapman, agent for Wilhelm j, the
violinist, arrived from America by the mail steamer.
• * «
Garner gives Goodman, “the dead-head’s
terror,” a benefit on Thursday, 16th inst. Goodman
remains at the Royal as acting-manager for Lazar.
» « •
Zulu Thompson has done splendid business at
Garner’s Theatre, Adelaide. He expects the season to
extend over the present month at least. Then he goes
to Western Australia. Matters theatrical are said to be
very slow in the latter quarter; but Zulu, relying on
the musical taste of the W.A. people, takes with him
half a dozen pianos to give away.
• * *
An amateur Christy Minstrel performance was
given at Burwood on Tuesday evening, in aid of the
local cricket club. The hall was crowded, but nearly
all the interest of the entertainment attached to the
performances of the corner men, who are really a very
funny pair of persons. A Sydney amateur, who sang
“ La-di-dah” between the acts, was ironically encored.
A melancholy-looking negro sang “ The Golden Stair,”
and almost put the audience to sleen The wind-up con-
sisted of the two farces. ‘‘The Wig-makers” and the
“Doctor’s Boy,” both of which passed off very plea-
santly. In the last-mentioned piece the leading charac-
ter professed to cure broken heads. &c., by blowing
upon them through red flannel dla Milner Stephen. A
dramatic performance takes place at the same hall on
the evening of Friday, 10th instant.
« « •
M’Lean’s Troubadours produce “ Conrad and
Lizette” at the Opera House on Saturday night.
* # m
Active preparations are being made at the
Princess Theatre, Melbourne, for the production of
Shakespeare’s great play, “ The Tempest,” which has
not been put on the Victorian stage for ten years. New
scenery will be painted for the occasion by Mr. E.
Huntly—the music by Signor Gagliardi.
• • •
Mias Annie Taylor announces her farewell bene-
fit for Tuesday, the 14th, on which occasion she will
appear in the comedy of “ Married Life," and the farce
of “ Good for Nothing,” in which she will, of course,
appear as Nan. Miss Taylor has made herself such a
general favourite during her two years’ connection with
the London Comedy Company, especially in soubrette
and humourous parts (and we all like a good laugh) that
there is certain to be an overflowing house on the
occasion.
* * *
The Sydney Literary and Dramatic Club give
their opening performance at the Opera House on the
23rd inst. The performance, which is to be a com-
plimentary one, is to consist of the five-act comedy,
“ London Assurance.” From what we know of the
members, we look for a success,
# # #
Mias Montague’s benefit at the Gaiety, to-
morrow (Friday) evening, is the theatrical event of the
week. Nearly the whole of the front of the house has
already been engaged. We hear that Mr. T. M.
Slattery, M L A., will, on behalf of the beneflciaire’s
friends, present her with a necklet and locket, set with
brilliants.
♦ * *
J. L. Hall, after a successful season in Brisbane,
opens at the Opera House, Sydney, on 25th inst., with a
new company now being formed. Comedy, drama, and
burlesque.
» • *
Oliver-Sea grave Company, after four weeks at
Rockhampton, were, when the mail left, at Mary-
borough playing to good houses. They proceed to
Gympie, and return in time for the races at the city of
“ sin, sweat, and sorrow.”
# * *
Mrs. Lingard, we hear, seceded from her bus-
hand’s troupe at Denver, and left for England, taking
with her her the children. Dickie Lingard takes Mrs.
L.’s place, and will play the heroine in “ Betsy,” &c.,
through the States.
« « «
Our old and genial friend, William Horace
Bent, writing from Warwick, Queensland, on 3rd inst.,
states that he has been seriously ill for eight days, and
was still confined to his room. He had been suddenly
attacked with internal bleeding, and, to use his own
words, had “ been cheerfully informed by the doctor
that the next loss of blood would probably result in
death.” We are sure that hundreds will join with us in
the hope that the mercurial temperament of the sick
man will help in pulling him through. His lines are
now cast in a very bad place.
* • •
Signor Giorza, on Saturday night last, gave a n
organ recital in the Town Hall, Melbourne. Despite a
rainy and murky night there were thousands present.
The Signor is good in all departments of music which
he professes, but as an organist he is grand. Witness
his performances and improvisations on the wretched
box ef whistles, called an organ, at our own Garden
Palace.
POLITICAL POINTS.
The New South Wales Government are floating
a £2,000,000 loan in London.
South Australian Opposition will not challenge
the Government on the address in reply.
The Victorian Legislative Council will almost
certainly not accept the Reform Bill in its present
state.
Mr. Fowler, ex-Treasurer of South Australia,
has resigned his seat, and goes to England for two or
three years.
A reconstruction of the Victorian Government
is talked of—leaving out Vale and taking in Mirams
and Lougmore.
At the opening, on Thursday last, of the South
Australian Parliament, the speech foreshadowed reform
of the Council, taxation of property, abolition of duties
obstructive to trade, a bill to permit construction of a
transcontinental railway to Port Darwin on the land-
grant principle, besides minor measures.
Speaking of the opening of the LancefieJd rail-
way, Mr. Berry said that after they had settled the
Reform question the Liberal party would proceed to
hurst up the big estates, and otherwise to deal with
monopoly in its other forms. They recognised it as
their duty to prevent the poor man from being swindled
in this country, as he had been in other countries.
A subscription in aid of Thb Bulletin defence
fund has been opened in Brisbane.
The Sydney and County Bank opens for general
hanking business at its premises in George-st. North,
next to Bank of Australasia, on Ist July. The compo-
sition of its directory and management, and the pros-
perous times in which it makes a start, lead up to the
expectation that the hank will be as successful as its
predecessors. As the formation of every new bank adds
to the general prosperity, we sincerely hope it will.
3
THE BULLETIN.
Jane IX. 1881


BRIEF MENTION.
A paper “ mill.” —Lawson v. Labouchere.
Chief Justice Lilley declined a title. Even the
Queen can’t paint the lily.
Another party of Aucklanders left by the last
Frisco boat to join the Mormons.
The Bulletin, says a country paper, is com-
paratively cool now. No Heat-on.
An “ Owl ” club is to be formed in Sydney.
The 'Oly ’Owl won’t be admitted, though.
Joy ! Mr. Evers is a candidate for a seat on the
committee of the N.S.W. Temperance Alliance.
A gentleman wishes to know the best means of
killing monkeys—he intends to do for that Burwood
one.
A parable. It’s a pretty big handicap when a
cricketing eleven has to play the opposing team and
umpire.
A prominent public man the other day called
the D.T. “ A journalistic McElhone.” Now, which
side was libelled P
‘‘The leprous, etc.” is not to be permitted to
mpete with white fruit-stall men at Ithe Melbourne
ilway stations.
Pork pies have been discovered in Brisbane.
The Courier has a par. about one. “ Pig tart” is the
name given to the delicacy.
We read that on the scaffold the five Nihilists
embraced and wished each other farewell. And yet they
were all going the same way !
The Brisbane Corporation want to borrow .£7OOO
or wharves and other purposes. It is the “other
purposes ” that do the mischief.
The “Vagabond” had no sooner landed in China
than the Western Empress died. The sagacity of those
Chinese is something marvellous,
Victoria had, during 1879, one-fourth fewer
prisoners in gaol than N.S.W. had. Yet people deny
that the mother colony is going ahead.
Forbes only got as far as ’Frisco—he got sick.
So did George Augustus Sala. What a queer coinci-
dence 1 Something in the whisky, we suppose.
A man who lives right opposite a Woolloomooloo
church has a magpie which sings hymns splendidly.
Only the cage stops it from taking up a collection.
The envelope in which the Zulu overtures for
peace was enclosed was addressed, “ On Her Majesty’s
service. From Cetewayo to Lord Chelmsford, Esq.”
Proctor’s weight in the Dalby (Q.) Club Handicap
is 7st. 71b. In scientific circles, however, Proctor’s weight
about seven hundred thousand billions of pounds.
The libel mania has also reached N.Z. The
editor of the Manawatu Times has been committed for
trial at the Supreme Court on two charges. Other cases
pending.
In reply to numerous inquiries, we beg to inform
our fair and “ unfair ” correspondents that it’s no go.
Mrs. Guelph, sen., has other plans on the tapis for her
grandsons.
Maurice Moore has been sentenced to three
months’ imprisonment for striking a man on the head
with a water bottle. Unhappy result of temperance
principles I
Only four aboriginals came to claim birthday
blankets at Glen Innes. There used to be thousands in
the district. Our Christian race has converted all the
rest—into bones.
The D.T. the other day alluded to the Clontarf
libel action as “the case Archibald and another v.
Moore.” This, after all, really is the aspect the matter
has new assumed.
The climax has been reached at Auckland. The
proprietor of the Free Lance is up for libel, and his
runners now cry out, os an advertisement o purchasers,
“ Boss going to gaol.”
Twelve thousand more Nihilists to be sent to
Siberia. If this sort of thing goes on much longer the
propagandists will be able to come back to St. Peters-
burg on their own account.
For cheating at poker, a man of Lawrence,
Otago, N.Z., has been committed for trial. HiscounseTs
contention was that no such offence was known to law.
This argument was overruled.
When Sir Evelyn Wood met the Boer leader,
Joubert, to arrange about peace there was a little
spread. The Brisbane Courier suggests that Sir
Evelyn’s whack was “ humble pie.”
He stood before his constituents—we won’t say
whether they were political or municipal—a little while
ago. And when he said “ Gentlemen, I will be honest
,” everybody roared and applauded.
“ The editor of the Moruta Examiner is
short of cash." This is how he tersely puts it in his
last issue. Like all other country journalists, he has,
we suppose, many unremittingly kind subscribers.
Catastrophic row at Crown-street Public School.
Pickwick versus Bardell. Chops and tomato-sauce.
All sorts of sauce. Mr. Heydon for the fair defendant.
A chance of justice being done, however. No jury.
It is said that a man who was a good swell, but a
bad mark, some time ago gave Holle an order for a suit.
When he called with a cab for the raiment, Holle said,
“ Der clothes is not kavite done, but der beel ish made
owt.”
The Boers can chop Scripture texts too. When
Kruger announced the peace he said that, as Joshua did
to Israel, he was now able to say to the Boers, “ To
your tents.” This is a drive for the Anglo-Israelite
society.
Mercadante's grand mass was performed at St.
Patrick’s last Sunday. Herr A 1 pen had “run in" the
German singing club. Mostly Protestants, too. Those
doubts about a hell are spoiling all the good old
hatreds.
Mr. Longmore (“ Smiler ”) denounces Press
writers as literary assassins filled with corruption. This
is probably true, because the Victorian pressmen have
been declaring for some time .that they are “full” of
Longmore.
It is proposed to remove that now farcical sen-
timent, “ The Press," from all toast lists at banquets
in New South Wales. The health of “ Juries” is to be
drunk in future—coupled with the name of—ahem! and
the libel law.
At Cairns, Queensland, the storekeepers have
just found out that Chinamen’s scales are hardly np to
the mark. In other words, they have come to the con-
clusion that it doesn’t pay to buy five and sell eight
onions as 16oz.
Professor Hume lectures at the Temperance
Hall on the 14th, Tuesday evening, on “ Dynasties and
the Ruling Powers Discussed from a Phrenological
Standpoint.” The lecture will be followed by an in-
teresting mesmeric seance.
What delightful things Dorcas meetings must be
in New Zealand I We notice that at a meeting of the
Sydenham Association of that ilk, the Rev. T. B. Cairns
made himself agreeable to the ladies —by reading Tenny-
son’s May Queen. How nice I
The St. Petersburg Golos avers that Professor
lonvenalief of Vief University h < invented a prac-
ticable Flying Machine. What wc i rfol changes science
brings about. The Russians wi i iu,e to shoot their
monarchs on the wing in future
There will be some trouble at next annual meet-
ing of the N.S.W. Temperance Society concerning a
little matter affecting the claim of a certain very dis-
tinguished politician to use the Society’s premises as
offices, to the exclusion of every one else.
The grounds for the release of David Henry, the
Melbourne money-lender, before the expiration of his
sentence, are officially given as “ good conduct and use-
fulness while in prison.” Now, some people say that
the real cause was “ usefulness outside prison."
The following “ad.” appeared in the News the
other evening :—“ The gentleman who was disappointed
on Easter Sunday night please call again comer of Mar-
ket-street, Sunday evening, 7 o’clock.” We hear that
850 females put in an appearance on the occasion. If the
real Simon Pure didn’t turn up that evening the Juliet
who parted with her “Robert” for that “sd,” can find
an equivalent for next Sunday by sending a parcel de-
livery van round to the Young Men’s Ker-ristian Asso-
ciation, and asking for the pale-faced, red-haired gen-
tleman wbo leads the psalms and puts his eyebrows in
papers.
“The Wrecker” asks whether the Evening
News, when it spoke of “the garb of knighthood,”
intended any reference to nightgowns ? Also why, now
that the small-pox is about, Milner Stephen isn’t to the
fore at the quarantined spot in Sydney’s Lower George-
street ?
If a young man in a tram-car give up his seat
to a pretty .young lady, he will be accused of partiality;
if he give it up to an ugly old lady, it will be said he
does it for effect. The best plan for him to adopt is to
keep the seat himself, and see nothing but the paper he
is reading.
The Mayor of Sydney says he will shortly lay a
financial statement before the City Council which will
make them shorten sail, if not shnt up shop altogether.
We’re glad that there is at last a chance of the aldermen
shutting up shop. Things would ge on so much better
without them.
Queensland, with regird to her official assig-
nees, is more fortunate than N.S.W. In an estate
wound up the other day, the debts proved were £ 178-
assets realised, £139. Dividend paid 5s 8d in the £.
The balance in law costs. And yet they grumble in
Banana Land.
Country Police Magistrate (to constable): “We
must get that fence np without further delay.” Con-
stable: “It’s all right, sir, I’ve not forgotten. Bob is
on the spree again.” The next day Bob is run in “drunk
and disorderly." “ Fourteen days, hard labour." Just
time to finish the fence.
We read that the week before last 3000 cart-
loads of mud “ were scraped off the streets of Sydney
and transported to a more suitable place.” Good
heavens! has it come to this ? Do the aldermen
really believe that there can be a more suitable place for
mud than the streets ?
The Bellarine (Yic.) Shire Council has been
shocked by the receipt of a request from the Castle-
maine Borough Council for co-operation in inducing the
Minister for Railways to run trains to and from country
places on Sundays. However, the people want it, so the
matter is to be considered.
Something like 4000 cases of unbaptised spirits
were recently wrecked on the Wollongong coast. And
now the only man down south who can say “ Success to
the Agricultural and Rural Interests" is a party by the
name of Johnson. His present address is Kiama ceme-
tery,—first grave on the left-hand side of the main
thoroughfare.
A dramatic company is being organised to play
a new piece, “The Streets of Sydney.” J. S. Batters
will not be in it. The stage properties consist of 200
cartloads of mud, a large number of ash-boxes, a few
full-grown precipices, some big paving-stones with holes
in them, samples of the Town Hall foundations, and
several assorted aldermen.
A Queanbeyan lady writes to say that female
printers pop the question to the male “ typos” by
simply handing them an interrogation point—” ?” If
the latter intend to embrace the opportunity and accept,
they return a—“ / j" but, if they wish to decline,
and dash the cup of happiness from the fair one’s lips,
they hand over a “
It is understood that the Sydney correspondent
of the Melbourne Ananias wants to know whether there
are many alterations in the new version of the Bible
about to be published. He’s particularly anxious as to
whether Sapphira and her friend were really struck
dead for lying, after all. We hope, for his sake, to find
that the revisors have seen fit to let the pair off easy.
It’s the newly-married man who thinks that the
empty kettle makes most noise. Six larrikin tin-
kettlers, who had serenaded a freshly-wedded couple,
have been brought up at Young, and the ringleader
fined £2O, or three months’ gaol in default. This
decision is calculated to remove a long-established
obstacle to the improvement of the matrimonial
statistics.
On Thursday last there was a cheerful little
meeting at Foley’s, when an amateur engaged a member
of the Permanent Artillery in a hand-and-glove
arrangement. The " Musical Party” also honored the
affair with his countenance, and Larry, when the ama-
teur had been permanently disposed of, concluded the
service with the usual benediction, “ What are youz
going to ’ave ?”
According to the Fiji Times, the natives of
Viti Levu have begun to feed missionary teachers on
c#ld Government officer. The native teacher in an in-
land part who is supplied by the darkies with food, was
given human flesh the other day, and was told that the
Government officer had been killed and cooked. He
bolted some for the sake of peace and quietness, and
then bolted himself.
Our journalistic brother in misfortune, Thadeus
O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, has been served with a
writ for £2OOO for libel, at the instance of a Mr. Doyle.
Thadeus says:—“ We were almost disposed to let judg-
ment go by default, as £2OOO and £5 ss. costs would
be simply a flea-bite to us, but On second thoughts
we decided to defend the action. We sincerely trust
Mr. Doyle will receive from an intelligent jury verdicts
for the amounts sued for. He will then be able to re-
turn to India and assume his proper position as a
Maharajah, and we shall be happy to accompany him
as private Secret iry and receive instructions in tne art
of ‘ How to do it ’ in a civilised country, and amongst
white men."
One of the most appreciated passages in Mr.
Gladstone’s recent budget-speech was the following :
“ I must also refer to the case of those who are known
as the Burton brewers, and to whom we are all indebted
(laughter) for providing one of the best drinks ever
produced, as far as I know, in this world—at all events
since nectar passed out of fashion or became unattain-
able (great laughter).”
The Australasian publishes with its issue of
June 4 a supplement containing most wonderful “ like-
nesses " of “ The Royal Princes.” Until we saw these
pictures we were not aware that there was so strong
a strain of Kanaka blood in the House of Brunswick.
The original is supposed to have been drawn on the side
of a recently whitewashed house by a naughty little
boy who had been smoking cane.
On the 17th May, there was not a single drop of
grog at Herberton, N.Q., and the supply of flour was
very limited. The correspondent who sends this infor-
mation naively adds : —“ Saturday night was lively, and
as the mail was in good time everyone was satisfied.
Dancing was keptnp, and there was a fight between two
gentlemen of colour, who were very soon told they would
be put on the chain if they did not stop.”
The example set by the man who poisoned him-
self so deliberately the other day in N.Z., and left be-
hind him a note sa,j ing that he was perfectly sane—
though the world might pronounce him mad —that his
pulse was going at 75 - , and that he would be dead in
three minutes, is bearing fruit. Peter Hodge Kirk, a
Dundee ex pressman, hung himself on May 17. He wrote
just before, saying he was perfectly sane.
Ball and Football. At a ball given the other
night by the Mayor of Yass, the Goulbum football
team, who had arrived in town to play, wore their
uniforms during the evening. Our correspondent
omits to say whether or not they wore their football
boots. The expression, “ What calves! ” went round
freely, but is understood only to have applied to a
“portion” of the players, and not to the players
themselves.
At the levee the other day, a smart young
barrister, coming into Government House without the
orthodox card, walked up to the table, quietly took a
card that had been thrown down by a previous loyal
subject, erased the name, turned the pasteboard over,
and scored bis own patronymic thereon. How’s this for
costs ? This barbarous practice will not, it is hoped,
be encouraged.
A well-known wine and spirit merchant the
other morning took a “safety” from Eedfem to his
office. On alighting he found several friends waiting
for him, and—what more natural!—he forgot the cab.
At 6 p.m. he was thus greeted by the cabby at his office
door: “ Well, sir, if yon don’t want me for half-an-hour
I’ll go and get some tea. I’ve had nothing to eat since
breakfast." Our friend now says he will always pay
when he gets out.
A sign of the times. The parson and the player
hob-nob together. Edward Terry, the London come-
dian, has been elected a member of the Richmond
Board of Guardians, to represent the Barnes district,
with the Rev. H. R. Wakefield, the curate of the parish,
as his colleague. This is as it should be, but shill we
don’t think there’s as close a tie between the pulpit and
the stage as there is between the church and the press
—in Sydney, anyhow.
An illustrated paper publishes what purports to
be a portrait of Mr. Goschen. This identical plate was
made some years ago to de duty by the Dunedin Saturday
Advertiser as Leon Gambetta. The proprietors of the
N.Z. pictorial press are treating their readers as Arte-
mus Ward acknowledges to having treated the gazers at
his “ Wax Statues.’’ Said Artemus, “ I call it so and
so, and you can call it what you darned well please.”
It occurred on board a steamer that carried a
mixed cargo of souls and coals. The salooners had just
sat down to " do justice ’’ to their first matutinal meal
aboard the ss. " Waddy,” when the I steward, walking
up to the only parson at the table, chirped out “ Grace,
sir ?" “ Ham and eggs,” promptly answered the cleric,
who happened to be a little deaf. “ Please say grace,
sir,’* repeated the steward. “ I said ham and eggs,”
was the angry retort of the nettled clergyman. Tableau.
| {Queensland Punch puts it thus, in a picture
entitled “ Mining speculation in the North," which
represents two men looking on while a third, pestle and
mortar in hand, is dollying “ specimens ” :— Working
Shareholder (to Working Mate): “ I like knocking oft
early on Saturday, ’tis pleasant and profitable.” Fred. :
“Rather; try the one Jack has, that’s a plum.” Jack.:
“ Smash this one up, and knock off; and I’ll go and
bleed the backers —’tis a custom we have in mining.”
Confiding Backer: “ Well, Jack, how’s the claim look-
ing?" Working Shareholder (pocketing his backing
money) : “ Just the same ; still sinking—no change.”
A lady went into a restaurant the other day with
her husband and a collie dog, and the latter, in obedience
to orders, got under the table while they lunched. The
place was crowded, and a young man took a seat at their
table. Scarcely had he begun his lunch, when he
turned suddenly scarlet, and after a hurried glance at
her husband, gave the lady a look, in which delight, im-
pudence, and bashfulness were strangely intermingled.
The lady was a woman of tact. “ You need not be
afraid,” she said, “ the dog does not bite." Then the
delight and impudence faded out of the young man’s
expression, and he felt as if he would like to go out and
jump on himself.
The wealthy owner of a massive pile of build-
ings not far from Elizabeth-street, who goes forth
courting his tenants for their office rent, does a 'cute
stroke to save the duty stamp. He drops in purposely,
prepared with his receipt-book, to secure the rent, and
then apologises thus: —“ I’ve no stamps with me, but
I’ll call in again to put one on.” However, he never
does “drop in" —until next rent day. Neither does he
ever remark that the rent “ will do next week just as
well."
Henri Ketten, we are glad to hear, is a poet as
well as a musician. He wrote some pretty verses be-
fore quitting Australia and left them in the hands of a
Brisbane friend. We subjoin the opening lines, which
are entitled “ Sydney Harbour," and are respectfully
dedicated.to his dear friends the Australian public :
££££££££,
££££££££!
£;£ ££££££
££££££££.
The Kiama Reporter says : “Ignorance is a
subject for pity, not laughter." Right you are, Charles
Isaac. That’s why we never laugh when we read
certain papers. “Choose those companions who
administer to your improvement.” Here Charles Isaac
has again got on to the bull’s-eye. We always go about
with the Reporter and Shoalhaven News in our
pockets. “ Truth is hid by great depths.” We can't so
readily subscribe to this assertion. We don’t admit that
the Kiama Reporter is very deep.
Here is the tale told by the “ boots ” of a lead-
ing Sydney hotel: —“ I’ve been in this billet five years.
When I started, I had £1 per week, and not a shilling in
my pocket. In those five years I’ve made £3soo—and
what’s more, I’ve made it honestly, every shilling of
it. Into the bargain, I’ve got the title-deeds of a
£750 house. Men, big swells, who threw me half-a-
sovereign or £1 when I first came here have since been
glad to borrow a few pounds—or even to get a drink
from me.” 'Tis a mad world, my masters!
One of the funniest things we have ever read is
a “poem” in the Otago Witness, entitled “A Little
Blue Hood,” and having reference to the Tararua
disaster. The artless poet has adopted, among other
metres, that of “ I’m the Euler of the Queen’s Navee”—
which, though of a nautical character, doesn’t come in
very well on the present occasion. However, as the
editor of the Witness, like most other Dunedin people,
is very Scotch, and not much of a humorist, we’re afraid
the joke -will be to a great extent lost so far as he
is concerned.
These are solemn facts. In two damp under-
ground offices, not far from the Circular Quay,
there were five people, who, when they went into the
premises not long since, were all tolerably healthy,
as men go. One of the five, a youth in his teens, died
last Saturday, of consumption; another has periodical
attacks of congestion of the lungs; the third has for
some time been laid up with rheumatism; the fourth
is now suffering severely from from laryngitis; the fifth
is dying of phthisis. Low rent, damp feet, and a
poisoned atmosphere.
More solemn Facts. Scene 1. Time, Saturday.
Parramatt i train. Bank clerk buys bunch of camellias
and gives them to girl, who in he meets every morning in
the car. Civil servant meets girl at Eedfem and “carts”
her away from the other fellow. Scene 2. Time Monday.
Place, Parramatta Station. Bank clerk meets civil ser-
vant and says : “ Wish I’d met you on Saturday night.”
Then (producing, opening, and flourishing razor); “ I
was on the look out for you and meant to give you a
taste of this.” Tableau: Application “on the strict
Q.T.” to bind over to keep peace.
In Dunedin, the other night, at a very unseason-
able hour, a man was found on his hands and knees in
a jeweller’s shop. He explained to the Bench (and
everyone believed him) that he was one of Mrs. Hamp-
son’s converts. He was returning home from one of
her addresses which had somewhat affected him, and
seeing the jeweller’s door open it occurred to him that
he might as well go in and and offer up a short prayer.
He accordingly did so, and was crouched down uttering
a few words of supplication when he was perceived and
arrested by an unsympathetic and perhaps irreligious
policeman. The Bench discharged him. The prayist is
the kind of man, and the J.P. the kind of magistrate,
who takes the cake in Sydney.
A southern town, through which the railway
passes, boasts of a dam about a quarter of an acre in
extent. On this vast sheet of water there floats a
“ boat” capable of holding two full grown persons, if
they sit pretty close, together. On one.lovely moonlight
night, long since, a youag gallant took two fair sisters
boating (in turns, of course), and while one of the
adorable creatures glided in her bark gondola over the
silvery waters the other awaited on the bank. But
suddenly a storm arose. The little bark was roughly
tossed. “ Are you getting sea-sick, Emmie ?” cried the
watching maiden from the shore. “No ; but I’m
getting dam sick,” was the reply. And now that young
man vows he’ll never marry either of those sisters.
In March two men, one named Brien, the other
O’Brien, arrived in Brisbane and “ went »n the
spree.” O’Brien got very drunk and went to sleep,
whereupon Brien, who was drunk, but not incapable,
relieved him of his watch and chain and gave them into
the care of a waitress. O’Brien, after a time, woke up
and said he had been robbed. Brien explained that the
watch was safe. He interviewed the waitress, who
handed the watch over, bnt he was almost immediately
arrested and charged with robbery. He produced cer-
tificates of good character from the Royal Navy and from
every ship he had served in. But an intelligent jury
found him guilty, and he got—three years! For taking
care of his companion’s watch. So says Queensland
Punch.
Mr. T L. Nicholson, Mayor of Ashfield.
The subject of our sketch, Mr. Thomas Lovedale
Nicholsen, besides occupying an important municipal
position in one of the principal suburbs of the metro-
polis is the recognised leader of that compact and
powerful party, the Temperance organisation of New
South Wales, which has now for a period of over twenty
years laboured with admitted great success for the im-
provement of the condition of the people. With such
skill has the Temperance question been handled
during the past three years that it became a great test
at the late elections, and is to-day one of the first
subjects for legislative attention. To Mr. Nicholson a
great deal of the credit for this active and effective
management of the organisation is due, and there can
be no question that he is eminently fitted for the
position of leader. He is a bold, outspoken advocate,
a man of peculiar capabilities, backed up by experience.
His life has been devoted to athletic exercises in the
cricket field, Ac., and he brings to his new work an
amount of energy from which much may be expected.
Mr. Nicholson was born at Parramatta in 1832, and
early in life started and conducted a large outfitting
business in his native town. After a prosperous
business career in the western districts he turned his
attention to mining, and at Gulgong experienced
the usual bad fortune. He came to Sydney
in 1875, commenced business, and has ever since
enjoyed an unusual amount of success, being entrusted
in addition to his ordinary business, with large,Govern-
ment contracts for official and military clothing. Fora
number of years Mr. Nicholson has taken an active part
in politics,and was in the foremost ranks in the conflicts
for manhood suffrage and vote by ballot. Four years
ago he devoted his energies to the temperance cause,
and was in the first year of his connexion elected Grand
Worthy Marshall, and in the succeeding two years to
the position of Grand Worthy Councillor. Last April
he was re-elected to the position, and now, in the
absence of the O. W.C.T., Mr. Hutchinson, is defactotbe
head of the order in New South Wales. Lost January,
at the Garden Palace fete, in recognition of his services,
Mr. Nicholson was presented by the temperance bodies
with a splendid gold Waltham watch, gold albert, &c.
Mr. Nicholson has found time to attend to municipal
matters, and last year was elected mayor by the Ashfield
Council, on the retirement of Mr. D. Holborow, who
had held the position for the eight preceding years. In
1851 Mr. Nicholson married Miss Tunks. sister to Mr.
Tnnks, Mayor of St. Leonards, and has had a family of
twelve children, eleven of whom are living. Mr. Nichol-
son is a representative of the old cricketers, having
captained the western teams, years ago, in many suc-
cessful contests, mementoes of which he now holds in
the shape of numerous trophies. Doubtless it is to these
early days of physical exercise that he owes the energy
he is now able to devote to public affairs.
MR. T. L. NICHOLSON, MAYOR OF ASHFIELD, HEAD OF THE TEMPERANCE ORGANIZATION IN N.S.W.
4
Jane 11, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Professor Miller, the champion athlete, neither
smokes nor drinks.
W. Kelley, who is playing A. Dillon, is said to be
the champion handball player of England.
Tbe balance-sheet of the Sydney Amateur
Athletic Club shows £9l 5s Id at the credit of the club.
Kirby, who was defeated by Trickett, is 29
years of age, 5 feet 4 inches in height, and weighs 11
stone.
The Oaks was won by Crawford’s Thebaia ;
Cookson’s Lucy Glitters was second, and Blenkiron’s
Myra third.
Trickett was very anxious to meet Boyd before
lie left England, but the necessary preliminaries could
not be arranged.
Victorian Tattersall’s, as a betting institution,
is defunct, and the Victorian Club is flow the betting
tribunal of Victoria.
A handicap trotting match was run at Kensing-
ton Park on Saturday, resulting in a victory for F.
Robbin’s Brown Hawk.
A rowing club is on the tapis at Parramatta.
Such a club should be to Sydney what the Hawthorn
club was to Melbourne.
Captain Webb has accepted W. Beckwith’s
terms for two matches for £lOO a-side each —a twenty
miles aad a six day’s swim.
The official time given for the Adelaide Birthday
Cap was 3m. 945., but several reliable Victorian time-
keepers made it nearer 3m. 15s.
The bookmakers have threatened to hold a race
meeting in Melbourne on the same days as the South
Australian Jockey Club next May.
The contest between the yachts Charm, Medea,
and Rip, at Southport, Q., on Queen’s Birthday,
resulted in a victory for the Medea.
Only recognised members of the Adelaide Tat-
tersall’s were allowed to ply their vocation as book-
makers at the late Birthday meeting.
Mr. Smith’s dog, Le Loup, won the rabbit cours-
ing on Saturday. Mr. Jack’s Le Loup was the runner
up and Mr. Gray’s Ladybird was third.
The Epsom Gold Cup, run for on June 3, re-
sulted in a victory for the Duke of Westminster’s Bend
Or, who beat Mr. C. Brewer’s Robert the Devil.
At Muswellbrook races last week there was one
or two very questionable things done. It would be
well if the stewards looked into these little matters.
Mr. J. J. Miller, the well-known pencillist, has
purchased the famous American trotter. Contractor,
with which he intends returning to the colonies next
month per City of Sydney.-
Laycock’s weight when he rowed at Grafton, on
Queen's Birthday, was 13st. 21b., several pounds heavier
than his proper weight. He used the same boat in
which he defeated Blackman on the Thames.
For the Clarence Eiver Jockey Club’s meeting
the entries are good, and include horses from all parts
of tbe colony. Eleven have been nominated for the
City Handicap and twenty-three for the Club Handicap.
The results of the Blacktown races on Saturday
were as follow: —Plying Handicap : Stella 1. Galloway
Handicap: Opossum 1. Kildare Handicap: Margaret
1. Selling Race : Whalebone 1. Pony Race: Coeur de
Leonl.
Wallace Ross wants to arrange matches with
Warren Smith, George Hosmer, and Charles E. Court-
ney, and intimates that if he fails to do so, he is not
averse to again trying conclusions with Hanlan upon
even terms.
A cablegram lately received states that a hitch
has occurred in the formation of the English cricketing
team for Australia. The Nottingham contingent are
dissatisfied with tbe financial arrangements, and threaten
to withdraw from the team.
In the final course on Saturday for the Hind-
marsh Island Stakes, at the South Australian Coursing
Club meeting, Mr. Heggarton’s Spiudleshanks beat Mr.
M. Wheaton’s Buxom, thus winning the stakes and Mr.
R. Barr Smith’s silver trophy.
Thirty-six horses started for the Lincolnshire
Handicap, run for on the 23rd March, and won by Mr.
W. 8. Crawford’s Buchanan. The value of the stakes
was £1925. For the Grand National Steeplechase, won
by Capt. Kirkwood’s Woodbrook, there were thirteen
starters. Tbe value of the stakes was £930.
The results of the Kapunda (S.A.) races on
Wednesday, the Ist instant, were as follow:—Light
Stakes: Tom Brown, 1; Stanley, 2. Hurdle Race:
Veno, 1; Clifton, 2; Phoenix, 3. Kapunda Handicap:
Fictitious, 1; Mallala, 2; Cock of the Walk, 3. Free
Handicap: Mallala, 1; Tom Brown, 2; D 0.D., 3.
On the last day of the Adelaide Birthday Meet-
ing £6lOB passed through the totalisator. The best
dividend of the day was that on the City Handicap, won
by Miss Harriet, the investors of £1 receiving no less
than £2O 6s. During the four days £21,410 passed
through the machine, and the Club netted thereby
£l2OO.
The N.S.W. Gun Club is in a prosperous condi-
tion, a balance of nearly £BO having been brought
forward this year. The hon. secretary and treasurer
have been re-elected, and the following gentlemen
chosen as members of committee:—Messrs. Faithful!,
Friend, Gannon, Pidcock, Houghton, W. Hill, and F.
Smart.
With reference to the proposed' intercolonial
yacht race, the following resolution was passed at a late
meeting of R.S Y.S. andP.A.Y.C. :—“That the secre-
taries of the Victorian and Adelaide Yacht Clubs be
written to, requesting their co-operation, and enclosing
a copy of the resolution in re the establishment of inter-
colonial yacht races."
At the ninth annual meeting of the Sydney Ama-
teur Athletic Club, the president and vice-presidents
were re-elected Mr. F. Walsh was elected hon. sec.,
and Mr. J. A. Buckland hon. treasurer. The following
were elected as the committee for the ensuing year.-
Messrs. P. J. Clark, E. M. Betts, E. P. Simpson, W. P.
Simpson, R. A. Arnold, L. Bennett, and E. S. Cape.
In the race with Kirby, Trickett used a sliding
seat and Kirby a fixed seat. The time of the match,
which should occupy about 25m. under ordinary cir-
cumstances, was 42m. 525.; and it was a matter of some
surprise that the umpire did not postpone the race
until more suitable weather prevailed. There was very
little betting, 6 to 4 in a few cases being laid on Trickett.
The London Sporting Life remarks that until
his race with Kirby, rowed under terribly unfavourable
conditions, Trickett had given no proof in England—
unless it were in his heat with Nicholson, in the Hop
Bitters regatta—that he was a stayer. However, in the
Kirby contest he proved himself a stayer, and game to
the backbone. He weighed 12st. 101 b., or 31b. more than
in his race with Hanlan.
The Vale (U.S.A.) University eight must be a
fine lot of men. They are as follow: —Bow —John B.
Collins, ’Bl, captain, 22,1701b5., sft. lOin.; 2 —Philo C.
Fuller, ’Bl, 23,1701 b., 6ft, *in.; 2—Fred. W. Rogers, ’B3,
22,1721 b., 6ft.; 4-N. T. Guernsey, ’Bl, 24, 1771b5., sft.
llin.; s—Louis K Hull, ’B3. 21, 1801bs., 6ft.; 6-G. B.
Rogers, L.S., 24,1861b5., 6ft. 24in.; 7—Charles B. Storrs,
’B2, 21, 1801bs., 6ft. 4in.; stroke —Henry T. Folson, ’B3,
21,1741b5., sft. 10*in.
The first heat of the Senior Pair Oars Out-
riggers, at the Mercantile Club regatta, on Saturday,
was rowed to the death. Macfarlane and Mountcastle
led till close to the finish, when Williams and Bull,
after an exciting finish, won by a few feet. Macfarlane
was completely done, though Mountcastle was rowing
well. Bull was also rowed out, and punished his
partner’s back in the race home. The second heat of
the Senior Scullers Clinkers was the best race of the
day. Bull winning by about a length.
Yaughan and Rowell, the Englishmen, beat the
American pedestrians, O’Leary and Albert, easily.
Vaughan is described by the Americans as far the best-
looking man who has ever shown as a professional ped.
He is tall, splendidly built, and his style of carriage
when in “swing" is simply beautiful; he is full of
muscle, and an artist at his business, his stride being
long, and his arms, hands, and feet move with the
regularity of machinery, while each step is as distinct
as any critic could possibly wish.
America has scored one against England in the
racing. The English Derby, run at Epsom on Wednes-
day, Ist June, resulted in a victory for the American
colt Iroquois, owned by Mr. P Lorillard. The favorite,
the Duke of Westminster’s Peregrine, was second, and
Mr. J. Watson’s Town Moor third. Iroquois won, as a
two-year-old, the Newmarket Two-Year-Old Plate, tbe
Chesterfield Stakes, and the Levant Stakes at
Goodwood. Iroquois is by the English horse Learning-
ton from Maggie 88. In Australia we have a represen-
tative of the Leamington line, for Newminster is from
a Leamington more.
The results of the Ipswich races on Thursday
and Friday last were as follow .- —First day.—Sires’
Produce Stakes ; Legerdemain 1, Cadmus 2. Trial
Stakes: Legerdemain 1, Cadmus 2. Flying Handicap:
Warhawk 1, Czar’2. Hurdle Race : Pantome 1, Hack-
wood 2. Ipswich Cup.- Lord Clifden 1, Proctor 2,
Hermit 3. Settlers’ Race : Limerick 1, LigV.foot 2,
Second day.—Gilpin Stakes: Patsey 1, Snip 2, Laura 3.
Grange Plate : Warkawk Railway Plate : Patsey 1,
Hackwood 2, Explorer 3. Selling Hurdle: Prophet 1,
Lone Hand 2, Huntsman 3. Grand Handicap : Clifden
1, Proctor 2, Czar 3. Maers’ Produce Stakes : Leger-
demain 1. Cadmus 2. Wind-up Stakes: Warhawk 1,
Hackwood 2, Czar 3.
The Ithaca Journal remarks “ Cornell
University, which won, and has since held; the aquatic
championship of American colleges, has now undertaken
to pull for the championship of the world in fours. The
crew from Cornell that will be held, at Henley Regatta
in July, as the representative of American colleges, is a
model of physical strength and endurance, and is un-
questionably one of the finest in point of oarsmanship on
American waters. The men leave for England about
May 24. The races in which they are to take part are
two, and will be pulled July 4 and 5, on the Thames.
The crews to be met are the fours from Cambridge and
Oxford in the first race, and the famous London four and
Thames four in the second race, the latter crews being
the acknowledged champions of the world.”
The first of the handball matches between A.
Dillon and Kelly, took place at the Rising Sun ball
court, on Saturday, and resulted in a most decisive
victory for Dillon, who scored the 51 aces to his oppo-
nent’s nil. The second match is to be played at
Hamilton next Saturday, but the stakes (£100) must go
to Dillon unless Kelly follows suit and makes 51 to nil.
Dillon has to score only I to win the match, as the
highest scorer in the two contests, irrespective of the
issue of either, becomes the winner. Dillon performed
the extraordinary feat of tossing 48 aces in succession.
A dispute arose as to striking a ball, which the referees
allowed in favour of Dillon, but he allowed his opponent
to go in. Kelly failed to score by this advantage, and
Dillon got in again and soon obtained the three points
requited.
At the Oxford University sports, England,
March 14 and 15, M. B. Peacock, Trinity, won the run-
ning long jump with 21ft. lOfin. The actual distance
cleared by him, measuring from where he took off in
rear of the scratch-line, was 22ft. 7in. C. H. Cave won
the 150yds. race, from scratch, in 19| sec., by three-
quarters of a yard, from S. K. M. Stobart, who had 8
yards start. The hurdle race, 120 yards, ten hurdles,
3ft. 6in, high,was won by G. P. Laurence, Corpus, by a
half dozen yards, from J. A. L. Fellowes, in the splen-
did time of 16 3-ssecs. In the quarter-mile run Stobart,
15yds. start, won by three yards from E. L. Growse and
W. N. Bruce, both on scratch, who ran a dead heat.
Time, 50 4-sseos. P. R. Benson, New, won both the mile
and three-mile rnns, the latter in 15min. ISsecs., which
beat by eight seconds the fastest Oxford time previously
made.
Following were the results of the Mercantile
Rowing Club Regatta on Saturday :—Senior Sculls,
Clinkers, Ist heat; H E. Wilkinson, 1. Maiden Pours,
E. Palmer, H. B. Pickering, C. Booth, P. Ives, (stroke)
I. Junior Scullers, Clinkers, Ist heat; H. Jacob 1.
Senior Pair Oars, Outriggers, Ist heat; F. J. Bull, C.
H. Williams (stroke), 1. Junior Scullers, Clinkers, 2nd
heat; F. Ives, 1. Senior Pair Oars, 2nd heat; A. P.
Bros, C. A. Bros, (stroke), 1. Maiden Double Sculls,
skiffs, E. Palmer W. F. Corbett (stroke), 1. Senior
Scullers, clinkers, 2nd heat; F. J. Bull, 1. Junior
Fours, F. O. Hebblewhite, M J. Fitzgerald, A. Croall,
J. Whelan (stroke), 1. Junior Clinkers, final heat, F.
Ives, 1, H. Jacob, 2. Senior Pair Oars, final heat, A.
P. Bros (stroke), 1. The final heat of the Senior
Clinkers, and the) Scratch Fours Race take place to-
day (Saturday).
All preliminary arrangements have been effected
for a team of cricketers under Shaw and Shrewsbury,
to visit the colonies. The following is the programme :
—New Zealand: Auckland, November 24, 25, and 26,
Wellington: December I, 2, and 3; Christchurch, De-
cember 5,6, and 7; Timaru, December 8; Oamaru,
December 9; Dunedin, December 10,12, and 13 ; Inver-
cargill, December 14 and 15. Australia; Melbourne,
December 26, 27, 28, and 31st, January 2 and 3, 1882;
Ballarat, January 5,6, and 7; Warnambool, January 9,
10, and II; Stawell, January 12, 13, and 14; Albury;
January 17 and 18; Wagga Wagga, January 19, 20, and
21; Sydney, January 26, 27, and 28; Newcastle, January
30 and 31; Maitland, February 1,2, and 3; Bathurst,
February 6,7, and 8; Sydney (return), February-10, 11,
and 13; Brisbane, February 16, 17, and 18; Sydney,
February 23, 24, and 25; Goulbum, February 27 and
28; Melbourne, March 3,4, and 6, Adelaide; March 10,
11, and 12; Port Adelaide, March 14 and 15.
At the first championship meeting of the English
amateur boxing, held on 11th April, at St. James’ Hall,
London, “a Mr. Murray, recently arrived from
Australia,” showed up rather prominently in the heavy,
weight competition. According to the Reveres,
Murray “stands about 6ft Sin, and depends entirely
upon length of reach. Of science or finesse he knows
nothing whatever. He found his way to Frost-Smith’s
face, and once or twice landed- with the wrist so
vigorously that the old champion’s blood flowed
copiously. This, in the minds of his partisans,
appeared to constitute complete success for Murray;
but Smith countered again and again with effect, getting
both hands home, and making Murray give way
repeatedly. In the third round Frost-Smith had him
beaten completely to a standstill. I don’t know
whether the feeling arose from ignorance, private
malice, or other prejudice, but there was a tremendous
clamour for Murray after the decision was given in
Frost-Smith’s favour.” Of course we all know what a
friendly feeling “ Pendragon ” entertains for Australia
and Australians.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
In the matter of the Oxford and Cambridge
billiard match, J. Douglas-Lane beat A. F. 8. Ford by
150 points in the single-handed match, and Lane and H.
G. Hutchinson beat Ford and W. McEwen by 160 points
in the double-handed match, both at the English game.
At the final meeting of the Grafton Regatta Com.
mittee, the funds showed a surplus of fully £5O
after the payment of all prizes and expenses
At Ipswich, on Wednesday last. Orphan was sold
for 155 guineas. King Cole was withdrawn at 120
guineas In a 100 yards’ race at Carcoar, for a small
wager, F. Oatley beat A. Gennys easily The Carcoar
petitioners for a grant have been informed that the
Secretary for Lands doesn’t consider that public money
should be devoted to the purchase of race-courses
The American billiard champion is now Jacob Schaefer,
who goes to France shortly to play Vignaux
Myers, Merrill, Duffy, and Ferris, are the amateur
pedestrians who represent America at the approaching
Lillie Bridge meeting Dr.* Carver, the American
marksman, has challenged ten of the best shots in the
Hurlingham Club and the Gun Club, of London, to a
pigeon shooting match for £5OO, the doctor shooting
1000 pigeons to his opponents 100 each A bicycle ex-
hibition has proved very attractive in London. That
exciting most attention is a new invention known as the
“Otto,” or safety bicycle. In this two wheels are
parallel, instead of one in front of the other, and the
person of the bicyclist is balanced securely by a most
ingenious arrangement between the two. The speed
attained by this invention is said to be very con-
siderably greater than that on the tricycle The
London Standard of April 7th gives prominence to the
following announcement:—“ Owing to the discourtesy
shown to the press by the committee of the Oxford and
Cambridge Athletic Clubs, we decline to publish any
account of the University sports to-day at the Lillie
Bridge Grounds." Mr. Tobin has increased the value
of the cup he promised as an addendum to the Coonam-
ble Jockey Club Handicap, from £3O to £5O At
Tiigba sports on Qneen’s Birthday the handicap, three
distances, was won by P. Connors; A. Skinner 2. Ten
started Joe Thompson says that on the Hanlan
race, Layoock, Trickett, and Jack Thompson “ staked
all they was worth, and when it was over, blessed if
they could have raised a fl’ pound note amongst the
rosy lot of ’em! Only fancy them poor devils, every
one them over six foot high, in such a fix in London—
fifteen thousand miles away from civilisation! ” Ray-
mond Terrace races on 22nd and 23rd inst On March
14th, at Lillie Bridge, George Mason, of Ratcliff,
James Bailey, of Sittingbonrne (the holder), and A.
Noremac, of Edinburgh, competed for the belt and £75,
offered by Sir John Astley, for the 50 miles champion-
ship. Noremac retired at 42 miles and 3 laps, and
Mason at 47 miles, Bailey, the winner, being allowed to
leave the track by the referee at 48 i miles Mr.
Mayo says Black Swan won’t race any more. She is
now turned out in a lucerne paddock at Maitland
In the recent six days “go-as-you-please,” Melbourne,
one of the pedestrians only slept twenty-four hours.
Nature evidently intended that man for the father of
twins A 200 yards’ foot race took place at the
Brisbane Gardens on Saturday, between Watson and
Pe’dley; the latter won by two yards The Newmarket
Accession Meeting set down for the 20th instant, at
Adelaide, will not be held in consequence of the number
of recent race meetings A mile race for £5 aside was
run on the Newcastle racecourse, on Saturday between
Baylee and Pardey, the latter winning by 50 yards in
smin SOsec In the race with Kirby, Trickett had to
contend against moreformidaole opponents in a steam-
tug and a sailing wherry, which kept bearing down upon
him, evidently for the purpose of washing him At
the sale of the Rapid Bay yearlings at Adelaide, the
highest price was fetched by a brown flllv by Tre-
geagle—Miami. Mr. Jacobs was the purchaser at 400
guineas The successful skaters at the very late
Exhibition skating contest say that those prize skates
will be very acceptable. They will probably be handed
over by Skuthorpe when he’s through with the
Leichardt property.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Modern women of fashion work hard at their
vocation.
An anchorite is a fellow who, when he finds a
pretty girl, will anchor right there.
Don Quixote ; No padlock, bolts, or bars can
secure a maiden so well as her own reserve.
“ Never marry for money, my boy; but if ever
you meet a nice girl with plenty of tin try to love her.”
The lady who eloped with Prince Bismarck’s son
says she will forgive her husband. This is as it should
be.
Onida: The great art in Society is to be able to
stare our oldest friends in the face as if we’d never met
them in all our lives before.
“ Dimple” is the name of a new bonnet. The
purchase of one of these is said to make a dimple like a
grave-pit in a man’s pocket-book.
What a comment on the weakness of man, but it
is true that ninety-three of the famous “ Bachelor
Club ” of London are married men.
The latest eccentricity in English women’s dress
is ankle bangles. Probably this new fashion is due to
Mrs. Cetewayo, who visited England lately.
The matriculation examination now in progress
at the Sydney University are the first to which lady
students have been admitted. They had only five days*
notice, however.
“My child .” “Yes pa.” “ I saw young
De Jones 4 putting on side ’ with you yesterday. Now,
my child, never pay heed to flatterers.” “ But, pa, how
can I tell when they're flattering ?”
New Zealand is slowly but surely getting on
towards polygamy. Christhurch contains 600 men
more than women, Avon 200, Lyttleton 3<>o, Sydenham
130, Heathcote 600, and Akaroa district 400.
The other day, a man in the act of kicking his
wife slipped and broke bis leg in two places. This
should be a warning to wife-beaters. Always see that
your feet are well braced before beginning work.
After dessert the host lighted a cigar. “Ladies,”
said he blandly, “ if there is any one of you to whom
tobacco is di-agreeable, she has my permission to
leave.” An ill-bred man would have said nothing.
No one ventured to demur at Lady Florence
Dixey being made war correspondent of a London
paper, when it was given out that she always wears a
kilt when shooting grouse in the Western Highlands.
A medical journal of Munich says that diph-
theria caught by kissing is likely to assume a much
severer form than if the disease were contracted or the
contagion imparted in some other way. This should be
a warning to married men and pretty cooks.
Young lady (who has just commenced house-
keeping) : “ Well, my good girl, I think you will be
suited; the work is light, and we have no children.”
Bridget (with a gracious smirk): “ Oh, mum, do not
put yourself out on my account. 1 adores 'em.”
“ Come, mother, come,” says the son-in-law to
the old lady, in obedience to the pitiful request of his
wife not to be disagreeable, “ let’s make it up. I said
there was no woman in the world so unbearable as you
are, didn’t I, at which you felt hurt ? Well, I take it
all back—there are others 1”
Said the head of the house : “ I think this orange
is getting a little spotted.” “ Very well,” returns the
wife of his bosom, “ we’d better give it to the governess."
“ Oh, no, I wouldn’t do that,” replies the prudent
husband ; “ it’s not so bad as that. Tell you what you
do—give it to our neighbor’s little boy.”
At last! A new wash for the complexion has
been discovered. It is said to have been the only one
used by the celebrated Diana de Poictiers, and by it that
beauty was enabled to preserve her marvellous bloom
until an advanced vge. The wash is within the reach
of all, and consists of—unadulterated rain water.
Thackeray once wrote this in a private note: —
“ My dear Edward : A 4 dandy ’ is an individual who
would be a lady if he could, but as he can t, does all he
can to show the world he’s not a man.” Young men
who part their hair in the middle, in order that both
ears may have an equal chance of flapping, are requested
to cut this out It may save their lives.
The London Times contained recently a strange
advertisement from a lady, who wished to sell “rich fur
trimmings in sable tails, elegant sealskin paletot,
diamond earrings, rings, bracelets, an exquisitely-fitted
travelling-bag, two fine fur carriage rugs, some lovely
electro-plated entree dishes, tea-tray, fish and dessert-
knives end forks, and numerous other new wedding
presents ."
In seme of the rural districts of Italy a lover
who wishes to make a declaration of his passion, places
rose-leaves before the door of the lady. If she reject
him, she sweeps them away ; but if she accept him, tbe
rose-leaves remain. In Sydney, when a fellow gets
" struck," he goes and buys a ring straight away. If
the girl wen’t take it, he immediately goes down to the
cafd, drinks Bourbon, and gives the bauble to
the barmaid.
None of Queen Victoria’s daughters have ever
originated a fashion. They are altogether domestic in
dress, perfect Teutons in appearance, and have nothing
whatever of the seductive and irresistible French
toumure. Possibly the ladies of the Royal family are
too intellectual to care for the mere adornment of the
form, and, like most clever women, they may be defi-
cient in vanity, coquetry, and the desire to surprise and
fascinate by dress.
“May I call you Paula?” asked he. “Yes,”
she said, faintly. “Dear Paula ! —may I call you that ?”
“ I suppose so." “Do you know I love you ?” “ Yes.”
“ And shall I always love you ?” “ If you wish to.”
“ And will you love me ?” Paula did not reply. “ Will
you Paula?” he repeated. "You may love me,” she
said again. “ But don’t you love me in return ?” “ I
love you to love me.” “ Won’t you say anything more
explicit ?” “ I would rather not.”
At royal weddings in Germany it is customary
for the mistress of ceremonies to cut up one of the
bride’s garters into small pieces, which are distributed
to those who have taken part in the festivities of the
day. _ As a large number are entitled to these fragments
of this order of the garter, it is not quite clear how one
garter, or even a pair of garters, could supply the de-
in and. At Prince William’s recent marriage many yards
of ribbon were used instead of tbe bride’s garter.
Genevieve Ward, emotional actress, wants sepa-
rate sleeping cars for women. Genevieve should be
encouraged. The women ought to have a sleeping car,
with room enough for every passenger to sit on the
floor while she puts on her 'shoes and stockings, and
there ought to be four chairs apiece to haug their
clothes on. But the fact is no man is safe in a sleeping
car. On the road to Melbourne we’ve always shuddered
lest some designing woman should chloroform us and
kiss us in our dreams.
The Princess of Wales dresses as a rule in black,
and is particularly partial to velvet, and very high ruffs
about the neck of her costnmes. The latter is very be-
coming, as her neck is somewhat too long for beauty;
but it is amusing to see the fashion adopted by the
average Englishwoman, who has a rather short and
plnmp than a long and thin neck. What the Princess
deprives herself of in colour she makes up in the toilets
of her two young daughters, who are rainbows in the
London fog, with their bright-tinted dresses and fair
complexions.
When Dolgourouki, after the Czar’s death, was
told that she must leave Kussia, she exclaimed: —“I
want nothing but the marriage ring. Ah 1 give me but
the marriage ring.” On being told that it had been
shivered into fragments, and was lost among the muti-
lated remains of tbe Emperor’s finger, the wretched
woman said in a ghastly whisper, “ Then it has all come
true," and fell senseless on the ground. It cannot be
wondered that the new Czar was ready to avenge his
dead mother’s wrongs by ordering Dolgonrouki out of
the empire. What really is hard to believe, however,
is that the Princess could sec so much value on the
wedding-ring.
A fancy-dress ball, given by the Count and
Countess de Camondo in Paris recently was an extremely
brilliant affair. The most splendid costume of all
worn by the ladies present was that of Mrs. those
Mackay, wife of the Nevada millionaire, who appeared
in a magnificent Oriental dress of pale blue embroidered
satin, combined with pale red velvet and old gold
colored satin, and blazing with diamonds. The
Countess Telfner was scarcely less superb as a Watteau
shepherdess, in pale red brocaded satin looped with
garlands of many colored roses over an underskirt of
pole blue, the dress being set off with a profusion of
jewels. Miss Eva Mackay was attired as an Incroyable,
in a long blue velvet coat, « vest of white embroidered
satin, and a skirt of pale cr6pe de Chine.
This is how an accomplished society reporter, on
a Dakota Territory paper, gives his readers an idea of a
social gathering, with this description of the costumes
worn by the ladies at the party :—“ Mary Monroe, red
frock, white sack, and hair bunched. Emma Latrobe,
yellow dress and high-heeled slippers. Marion Wil-
loughby, some kind of thin stuff, white, and tied up
with blue tape, and hair frizzled. Jennie Murchison,
black clothes and a feather in her hair. Ella Wexford,
red hair and grey suit, flat in front and stuck out be-
hind. Pauline Tresley, bigger’n a tub, and dressed to
the top branch; she had on a velvet outfit a mile long,
and sixteen rows of teeth on her gloves; her hair was a
dead yellow, tied up like a bun, and had a lot of vege-
tables in it. Florence Boss, green dress, flipped with
velvet, and hoisted up at the side with a white check-
rein. Vinnie Hammersley, white net-work, with red
streaks, walked with a limp, and hair frescoed.”
Adam Forepaugh, the great American circus
man, who recently offered a prize of £2500 to the hand-
somest woman, on condition that she should engage to
attend his show, has at last picked out his exhibition
beauty. He found her at Monongahela City, Pa., and
her name is Annie Pauline Scott—a first-class name for
a show. She is described by a gushing reporter as pos-
sessing a bust “ full and undulatingher waist is
said to “ fill her bodice nicely j” her eyes, of course, are
“large and fullher teeth “ a double row of pearls,”
and, to top off, she is said to possess “ the American
feminine nose.” To make the romantic part of the
business complete, “she comes of poor but honest
parents.” When Forepaugh gets through with her she
should raffle herself off. Lots of unmarried men would
take such a prodigy of beauty “ for weal or for woe,”
especially if dowered with the lottery cash results.
But a little of the interest attaching to Annie Pauline
is taken away by a newspaper man who has discovered
that she has gone under the name of Miss Montague,
that she has been a variety actress, and that the dresses
she is now wearing at Forepaugh’s circus were made
before the “gag” advertising for the beautiful woman
had commenced.
A correspondent wants to know what has become
of the Temperance Hall free reading room.
The Highbury Estate, adjacent to the Croydon
Railway Station, is to be sold by auction this day
(Saturday, June 11), Messrs. Hardie and Gorman being
the auctioneers.
We have received the first number of “ Paper
Making,” a new journal devoted to the interests of the
paper trade, and published by Page and Pratt, at 5 Lud-
gate Circus Buildings, London, E.C.
,£B5O. —A gentleman, wishing to settle in
Hobart, can hear of a business there, paying over £5OO
a year. Previous experience not imperative. Price,
£B5O cash. Address. C. M., care of The Tasmanian
General Advertising Co., Hobart.—Ann,
There is at present in the old country an extra-
ordinary revival of interest m the free-trade question,
the sum of £BOO having been subscribed in a few days to
promote the circulation of the Cobden Club literature
on the subject. John Bright recommends the study of
Mongredien’s 1“ Free Trade and English Commerce and
History” and Professor Fawcett’s “Free Trade and
Protection." Let our budding legislators "go and do
likewise."
When Maoready opened in “ Lear ” at the
Nottingham'Theatre, the “property man” received'hia
plot for the play in the usual manner, a map being’ re-
quired among the many articles —a map for Lear to
divide his Kingdom. The “ property man,” being illi-
terate, read “ mop" for “ map." At night the tragedy
commenced. Macready, in full state on his throne,
called for his map; supernumerary “ noble," kneeling,
presented to the aged king a white curly mop. The
astonished actor at once rushed off the stage, dragging
the unfortunate nobleman and his mop with him, actors
and audience roaring with delight.
i Thackeray revelled in a story about a novelist
whose first manuscript was sent back by the publisher’s
reader with a hint that it would be well if he would give
every character a step or two in the rank. The country
squire was to be turned into a wealthy baronet; the
knight into a mushroom peer, ennobled for his wealth j
the earl was to become a duke, and the mysterious
artist an illegitimate scion of royalty. The scheme was
adopted, the novel succeeded, and the author, who has
since largely contributed to the revenue of the trunk-
maker and the butterman, never afterward introduced
a character into his stories of less rank than a captain
in the Guards.
Good news for “poor Jack.” There are now
being built on the Tyne two large steamers, into which
has been introduced a novelty which will be highly
popular with sailors. The forecastle is partitioned off
into cabins, so as to include two bunks, one above the
other, in each little cabin. Should the possessors of
the bunks be set in different watches, each man will, in
his watch below, have to himself all the privacy of an
officer’s cabin. The deck spaces in the cabins are small,
but it is believed that he fact of having a completely
private spot to himself will be greatly valued by the
occupant. The cost of this innovation will not exceed
£lO, which will soon be repaid by the unwillingness of
the good men in the crew to change their vessel at the
end of the voyage for one without such privacy. The
idea is that of the author of the Brassey Prize Essay on
“ Lay Work in the Merchant Navy.”
Not content with having raised a professional
.sculler, America has once more rubbed up her inventive
faculties, and now placed before the world her latest
novelty—a phenomenal wood-bug. This bug turns the
scales when in health at two grains only, and yet it can
draw alo ag a truck of winter provisions weighing 2&10
grains, that is to say, a weight exceeding its own 1320
times. What we have to do now is to import a shipload
of these bngs, improve the breed by a judicious crossing
with kangaroos, or any other insect suitable, until this
Samson of a bug is able to “ yank” a dozen cars to
Woollahra, and replace our present noisy motors. Any
way, our Acclimatisation Society should rally up, and
prove that although Amurriker holds the championship
of the world 'for scullers Australia has the belt for
bugs.
5
THE BULLETIN.
June 11, 1881.


Business Announcements
I HAVE this day commenced business as a
Stock and Share Broker, and shall be happy to
undertake any commissions either for the sale or pur-
chase of shares that may be entrusted to me.
JOHN E, JONES.
Eeferences :
Hon. S. D. (Jordon, M.L.C.
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C.
Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
Eichard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-street.
JJAYID M‘CA L L ,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLES AND HAENESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Eoyal Highness the Dnke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Eobinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus.
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA. COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to any sold in Sydney at
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMAEKET.
A.
G. CHUECHWOOD,
147 YORK STEEET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPOETEE AND MANUFACTUEEE OP
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS. SHEET HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per
680,000 AMEEICAN SKEWEES,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO,
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
ROWLAND’S
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NAEEABRI.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY, THUESDAY, and
SATUEDAT for WEE WAA, PILLIGA, WAL-
GETT, MILLIE, and MOREE.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY and SATUEDAT for
MUNGINDIE, Queensland Border.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY for ST. GEOEGE,
Queensland.
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Turpentine
Eaw and Boiled Oils
Brushware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &c.
v armsnea
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangin gs
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Eesin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
M
UR PHY AND SON,
IMPOETERS OF
White and Eed Lead
MIXED PAINT, READY FOE USE, ANT SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEOEGE isTEEET WEST.
Cl GLASSO N'S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Habbis-stbekt, off Geobgk-stbbkt,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. Q. would beg to draw t?_e particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would cause a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. Q. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Railway Bridge.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, George-street.
OPENING NEW GOODS
for
WINTER SEASON
EVERY DAT DURING THIS MONTH.
FIRST GENERAL SHOW
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSES
FOR THE WINTER SEASON.
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO CHOOSE FROM,
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HOMESPUN
ELASTIC BIEGE
KASGHER CASHMERE
STOCKINGETTE
CAMBRIAN HOMESPUN
INDRIS CLOTH
ANGOLA CASIMERE
JERSEY CLOTH
VALPARAISO CLOTH
AND A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF OTHER
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—We have opened 3
cases of very CHOICE MILLIN-
ERY, something quite new and
handsome, direct from the leading
houses in London and Paris.
THOMPSON AND GILES. „
SILK DEPARTMENT. BLACK
SILK, Rich Velvety Black, 22 inch
to 24 inch wide, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. Extraor-
dinary value. Patterns post free.
BLACK SATIN DAMASK. BLACK
BROCADES, BLACK FIGURED
SILKS, in a variety of new patterns.
BLaOK SATIN DE LYON, 23 to 24
inches wide, 3s lid, 4s lid, 5s lid,
6s 1 Id, 7s 6d. These are now much
worn, and strongly recommended
for wear, and first-class value.
BLACK VELVETEENS
N AUCUNIU M, guaranteed fast black,
every yard stamped on back.
BLACK SATINS for DRESSES, 22
inches and 24 inches wide, 3s 6d,
3s lid, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d. These
are light and soft, and considerably
under usual prices. STRIPED
SILK VELVETS, PLUSHES in
every shade of colour. Embossed
and Brocaded SILK VELVETS,
Floral Designs, Ac.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPARTMENT.—We have
OPENED a LARGE ASSORT-
MENT of all descriptions of
LACES in every make, real and
imitation. Embroidered Trimmings,
Ruffling, Modeira Work, Ladies’
Cuffs, Collarettes Sets, Spanish
Lace Ties in Black and Ecru,
Spanish Lace by the yard in every
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS we always get FREE
FROM DRESS, so that there will
be no deception after they are
washed. Ladies will find our
Sheetings good value and standard
makes. Prices: 72-inch, rom lOd
to Is lid; 80-inch. Is to 2s 2d; 90-
inch, Is 6d to 2s 6d; 100-inch, 2s 2d
to 3s. American. Denison House,
& Horrocks’ CALICOES, TOILET
QUILTS, from If to 3f long, at all
prices. Coloured ALHAMBRA
QUILTS, 2i long, 3s 6d. TOILET
COVERS at all prices and sizes, by
the yard, 27 and 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN and HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT.—It has always
been our study to import goods of
this class of thoroughly genuine
character. By this means we have,
year after year, increased our Sale
of FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY. We
are now showing a very nice ship
ment of of DAMASK CLOTH and
NAPKINS, both Double and Single
Damask. These goods we have in
every size, and at prices unequalled
for cheapness and value in the
colony. We commence our DA-
MASK CLOTHS from 3s lid to
42s j 5-8 NAPKINS, 4s 6d to 12s 6d;
3-4 NAPKINS, from 7s 6d to
29s fid; DAMASK DOYLEYS,
round or square, all prices. SLIP
DAMASK. 5-8 and 3-4 wide : UN-
BLEACHED TABLE LINEN,
from Is 9d to 2s 6d; BEST IRISH
SHEETINGS, all widths ; IRISH
PILLOW LINEN, 40, 45, 54 inches
wide; WHITE TURKISH
TOWELS, from 12s 6d to 365, ac-
cording to size; BROWN TURK-
ISH TOWELS, GLASS CLOTHS,
TEA CLOTHS, KNIFE CLOTHS,
TURKISH DUSTERS. RUSSIA
CRASH. PINAFORE DIAPERS,
CLOUTING DIAPERS, MANG-
LING CLOTH, made expressly,
27, 30, 33, 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
B
LANKETS.
BLANKETS.
‘‘FIRST SHIPMENT OF THE SEASON”
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE. FULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
" Competition defied."
Jj O A L C L I F F COAL.
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON—224olb.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealings
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineers
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, Ac., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town;—
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto > Coalcliff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines J
235. Ditto double-screened I w ßwrau .n»
225. Ditto single ditto j Newcastle.
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood andOl' Mcoal, Ac., at current price.
B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next comer
King-street. Established 1859.
Tailors, Drapers, &o.
J.
M
E
N
T‘
N ,
BELMOEE HOUSE,
205 Pitt-atreet,
MILLINER, UNDEECLOTHIEE, FANCY DEAPEE,
AND AETIFICIAL PLOEIST.
Very pretty BONNETS and HATS in beaver, plush,
velvet, cream, and black Spanish lace.
Beautiful MILLINERY SETS in plush or velvet.
The new TOQUE, COLLAR, and MUFF, to match,
40s. the set; made of best plush, to suit any dress.
Novelties in HEAD - DRESSES and EVENING
FLOWERS.
TEEMS —CASH.
T
HE BEST and LARGEST STOCK
of
Tailors, Drapers, fto.
COUNTRY ORDERS faithfully executed.
Winter Requisites just in time. Bought to open
May Ist. Waterproofs, Children and Ladies', from
4s. 6d. to 255. Long Jackets, ss. to 455.
DOLMA ST'S VARIOUS PlECES—Winter Skirts in
Felt and Quilted Alpaca. Wool Goods of all Kinds,
as Cuffs, Boas. Fischus, Wrappers, and Seal, Monkey,
and other Muffs ,
A Nice Lot of Frillings, Fringes, Girdles, Plushes,
Velvets, Velveteens, Laces, Hosiery and Corsets,
Household Drapery.
In the item of Dress Materials and Dressmaking,
WE CAN PLEASE TOU. t
Winter Millinery now showing. First-class Dress-
making. Country Customers send P. 0.0.
Our own Registered Glove —
2 Buttons 4 Buttons 6 Buttons
In the Shop ... 2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
Posted 3s 4s 5s
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET 656
(Just below Liverpool-street).
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
87 King Street, Sydney (two doors from Qeorge-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
B,
THE MISSES GIB
(Late with Messrs. David Jones and Co.),
52, MARGARET STREET,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Three Doors from Mr. J. Spencer, Dentist,
Have much pleasure in announcing that they are about
to open Mantles Millinery, and specialities suitable for
Ladies for the Autumn Season. An early inspection is
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE.
|\LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS.
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE."
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
JT IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT” THAT
for Household or Family Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s” Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porium on the Brickfield H ' has “ No Rival,” either
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock,
NE W and BEAUTIF UL GOODS opening out
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
R.
ft EO. L. L I N E K E
HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOR.
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work-
manship, &e., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM GEORGE STREET.
R. C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
127 KING STREET,
Cannot
be
Excelled
Cannot
be
Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, and FASHION.
Cannot
be
Excelled
To effectually stop the extortion that has been prac-
tised in the way of clothing R. C. H. is making from
pure West of England and Scotch Tweeds.
In Five-button sac pattern suits, to Order, 70s.
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 655.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
West of England, Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order 16s 6d.
N.B.—Patterns, with self-measurement system, sent
post free to all parts of the colony.
Note the Address—
-127 KINO STREET.
a
m
w
<3
!BBkS&
A
r
WOOLLENS
In the COLONY,
FASHIONABLE and First-class GARMENTS
to order at
J, TURNER ROBINSON and CO.’S
Market Cloth Hall,
482 (LATE 484) GEORGE-SRREET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES.
TROUSERS TO ORDER, from 8s. 6d,
TROUSERS and VEST, 16s.
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s. 6d.
all GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK,
and PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
WALL GOOD SWELL-MADE,
WELL SHRUNK
AND A PERFECT FIT
GUARANTEED.
161
KING STREET,
(Near Tramway).
SYDNEY.
MADAME WEIGEL’S
PAPER PATTERNS of DRESSES, MANTLES, etc.,
cut in different sizes for Ladies and Children, fur-
nished with illustrations and directions for making
up. Sold at prices ranging from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
ADDRESS:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
JJ AYE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
Although pitt street is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Easiness Announcements
LjLKOAL.J
HORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
• SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slattery,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-BTREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w.
MAC L E O
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
D,
£JHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Go= d packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
iIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, Ac.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC,
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON.
PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
6
June 11, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Hotels, &c.
T
HE COMPAGNONI PALACE
CAFE AND CATEEING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s EESTAUBANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late ch(sf de ouisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni bave
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
lOMPAGNONI PALACE CAPE COMPANY
C
serve up in their best style
OYSTEK STEWS
OYSTEKS SCOLLOPED
OYSTEES FEIED
and
OYSTE IS NATUEAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FEESH OYSTEES at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
NOW OPEN,
THE
{JITY (JaTERING (JoMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cafh, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and EESTAUBANT for Gentlemen.
EEFEESHMENT BOOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
the purest description.
GUABANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind in) urious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATEEING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hpre.
HA S. R. gMITH,
MANAGES.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM ST BEET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALT. THE BEST BEANDS OF ALE AND POETEE,
Is PEE BOTTLE.
lEISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B. —Cockbum’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVEEY EVENING.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatbe Eotal.
de FR^NCt
OT
LEB
MU
i
taMam
P
Pi
£
LUNCHEON and SUPPEE-EOOMS. FIEST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOE TEAVELLEES.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PEOPEIETOES
HENNESSY’S HOTEL,
EUTHVEN-STEEET, TOOWOOMBA.
The above is, without exception, the LA GEST and
MOST COMMODIOUS HOTEL in the whole of the
Darling Downs and Western Districts.
A large and well-constructed Hotel has been a great
want in Toowoomba, and that want is now supplied in
HENNESSY’S HOTEL.
The Coffee and Dining Booms are large and roomy,
and are well furnished. There are over 20 single bed-
rooms, besides family apartments. All the bed-rooms
are furnished with full bed-room suites. Private
apartments, with sitting rooms, for families.
To commercial gentlemen Hennessy’s Hotel offers
unusual advantages. Situated in the leading street of
the town, it is in the centre of all the banks and busi-
ness places, and only a short distance from the newly-
erected Public Buildings. A large SAMPLE BOOM,
specially for Commercial gentlemen, has been erected.
A large and well-ventilated BILLIARD ROOM,
fitted with a new billiard table of the latest design.
The Cuisine Department will be under the manage-
ment of a first-class cook.
The best best brands of Wines, Ales, and Spirits.
No effort or expense has been spared to make
Hennessy’s Hotel one of the best in Queensland.
The Bulletin and other Sydney and Melbourne
papers kept on the file.
To Eacing men Hennessy’s Hotel commends itself
There are large, roomy stables and loose boxes.
Buggies and horses always on hire. A buggy will
meet U trans.
Hotels, &o.
OLD EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
{Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
Ma. GO O D,
• PARK HOTEL, PARRAMATTA,
(immediately opposite the domain gates).
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines and Spirits, of the
best brands, at the lowest possible prices. Picnic
parties therefore wonld do well not to burden them-
selves by bringing the same.
c.
W. E 0 B E E T S,
MARKET STREET.
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
Hotels, &c.
R
OBEET BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIEIT MERCHANTS.
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO.,
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUARTER CASKS,
AND CASE.
I
AG E N T—G EOKGE LLOYD,
BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
.has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
*ST Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
/ /
WINE GROWER AND MERCHANT,
Splendid DINNER WINES, from 12s. to 255. per doz.
DESSERT WINES. 18s. and 21s, per doz.
PINE OLD WINES, suitable for Ladies and Invalids
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS : 40 Hunter-street. Sydney
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
fjl R Y H.
HOOKINGS & CO.’S
PURE
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET, OPPOSITE CITY BANK
LTHOUGH PITT STREET is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
THE
TAEPING MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made up into lib and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places :
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M‘Douald, Williem-street, Woolloomooloo
J. F. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street. Woolloomooloo
A. M'Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yuroug and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Riley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
E. Clarke and C,, Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
■ J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 544 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., corner of Crown and Devonshire-
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
T. E. Geddes, 823 George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J. Dive, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dnnne, corner of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
D. M’Kinlay, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Viniug, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-street, Waterloo
J. M’Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole. Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M’Kechnie,senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Gninery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devir, Redfern
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
R. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
mm.
seas
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPEES AND WINE |
MEEC HANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
$
SOLE PROPRIETORS
CREENLEESS
31.C0M M ERCIALSTREET.IQNDON.E
DISTILLERIES, ARGYLLSHIRE.
THE PERFECTION
OF
UNRIVALLED for
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles. ,
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
R
OSS AND CLINCH.
(Late Collins and Eoaoh),
SEATED WATEE
AND
COEDIAL MANUPACTUEEES,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
COEDIALS OF ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDEESS:—
BOSS AND CLINCH,
438 HAEEIS STEEET, ULTIMO.
■pi MAETIN AND C
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEEE BOTTLEES,
105 PITT STEEET,
SYDNEY.
0..
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12a to 42s per dozen.
ALBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUAEIE WINES.
Burgundy.
piALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY,
Yinetabd:
MUEEAY EIVEE VALLEY, near ALBUEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris „ 1864
Vienna ~ ... ... ... ... 1873
Philadelphia „ ... 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales. Queensland, and 10 FIEST
CLASS, and 2 SBCOND CI-ASS at the SYDNEY
INTEENATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. BED.
Eeisling Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitag’
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Oarbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
The Name of M. MOSS & 00.
every Genuine Bottle.
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so largely consumed.
$52-7
cs
!-d
&
m
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and PLAY OUR.
Wholesale Agent —C HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E. CATTELL and
CO., Sole Agents.
ADC
MAR
B
OAE’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of AETHUE GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J B. CATTELL and CO.,
. ' Sole Agents.
7
THE BULLETIN.
Jane 11, 1881.


"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Besides the money from her trip, Sarah Bern-
hardt has gained in flesh during her sojourn in America.
Madame Marie Eoze and Henry Mapleson sailed
from America for Liverpool on the 28th April J. H.
Haverly proposes to shortly erect the handsomest
theatre in the world in Chicago Soldene has not a
small mouth. A San Francisco paper speaks of her as
having replied to somebody’s questions with a smile
that opened like the Vosemite Valley on a fine May
morning Henry E. Abbey and Sarah Bernhardt gave
a special performance of “La Princesse Georges” to
the profession, at Booth’s, on the afternoon of April 22.
No seats were sold or reserved, and an immense throng
of actors, actresses and pressmen were afforded a big
treat Adelina Patti is fond of billiards, and recently
asked Yignaux : “Can you teach me to play as you
do?” Yignaux cleverly replied: “Yes, if you will
teach me to sing like you ’’ Annie Louise Cary said
recently: “ I never put on tights without thinking of a
story told about me by a wicked newspaper man some
years ago. It said that p party of ladies were praising
mo up in a parlour one morning and saying how modest
and nice I was in dress and action —so unlike the
general run of those opera singers, said one of the
ladies. And, turning to a gentleman, she said : *By the
way, Mr. Jones, you were at theoperalast night, how was
Miss Cary dressed ?’ ‘ln tights 1’ was the answer. The
conversation changed at once.” Nicholas Rubinstein,
brother of Anton Rubinstein, the pianist, died recently,
while en route for St. Petersburg. The deceased was a
fine pianist, and was the mainstay of his brother Anton,
who is nearly blind Salvini became so absorbed,
lately in Philadelpia, in his performance of Othello,
that in striking np the swords of Cassio and Eoderigo
he inflicted a bad wound upon Mr. Crisp, who was act-
ing Cassio. The actors, in view of the audience, main-
tained their self possession and finished the scene,
though a pool of blood ran down the stage and behind
the scenes, and Miss Prescott, who was playing Emilia,
fainted away at the sight of it A baby giantess has
died in America, aged six. Weight, 2101bs The
telegram in which Robert Kennedy apprised his father
of the death of his brother and two sisters at the Nice
Theatre was worded thus: —“Thank God, they are
recognisable beyond possibility of doubt. Cut off in
the earnest pursuit of a pure art, they now sing a higher
and a holier song in Heaven." Mrs. Booth, the wife
of the eminent tragedian Edwin Booth, was, when the
mail left England, lying dangerously ill from laryngeal
consumption. No hope of her recovery Dr. Simms.
the American lecturer on physiogonomy, is doing a good
lecturing business at Christchurch Val Vose has
severed his connection with Professor Hermann, and is
now advertising in the New York papers for an engage-
ment The Victoria Loftus Blondes have been doing
immense business in New Orleans Mr. H. J. Byron,
as the Special in “Michael Strogoff,” writes his notes
in red ink, in order to say they “ will be re(a)d.” That
so practised a punster can perpetrate so antique a pun
seems altogether infc-r»d-iblel Dr. Spark, the Leeds
borough organist, who was announced to give an organ
recital and play a selection of Russian music apropos of
the late Czar’s death, received an anonymous letter
warning him that if he did “ Evil would come to him."
However, the performance passed off without anything
unusual occurring In Miss Ward’s suit, re the copy-
right of “ Forget Me Not," the principle has been
established that so long as an English dramatic compo-
sition is not printed for sale as a book it remains the
author’s property, no matter how often it may have
been performed. The same principle of law, would, it
may be supposed, apply to vocal or instrumental music.
Mr. Carden’s father is the oldest pressman in Eng-
land. He edited the Athens dm, and was dramatic
critic to seven London papers at one time. The Queen
bestowed upon him the Librarianship of the Charter-
house M Heraud is 86 years of age, and still hale and
hearty Says London Fact of 2nd April:—“There
are only three actors now playing in London who can
be placed in the same category with Mr. Alfred Dam-
pier—Messrs. Booth, Irving, and Charles Warner. Yet
this magnificent artist is relegated to comparative
obscurity across the water. Is this to be attributed to
the absence of enterprise or to the existence of profes-
sional blackguardism ? I believe the latter is the true
story. Anyhow, if a manager has any ambition of fill-
ing his house, let him try Mr. Dampier in ‘Jean Val-
jean.’ ” Carey “ kids ” have made a great hit in
“Chilperic” at T E,, Wellington M. Scherek an-
nounces his intention of trotting out some promising
amateurs at his next concert in Dunedin The Cardens
have been playing to mod. bus. in “ Shamus na Lena,”
which the critics seem to consider bosh. “ School ”in
rehearsal The Simonsens did bad bus. in Wanganui.
Martin too much of a Martinet At Mr. Slater's
concert at Auckland, Madame and the Misses Simonsen
sang for a consideration of £2O; but Mr. Martin refused
to allow Signor Riccardi, Miss Godfrey, and Mr.
Thompson, who had volunteered their services gratui-
tously, to assist. So the Observer asserts. And the
Auckland Observer, like Washington, hardly ever
lies H, Seymour’s burlesque company have posses-
sion of the Hobart Theatre Royal. The Duvalli
Sisters and the Brothers Wybmrd are members of it.
Amy Horton and George Bromley are also familiar
names; there are also those of the Sisters Burdett-
Coutts. Who are they ? M. Caillian has organised a
Philharmonic Society in Auckland. It will be con-
ducted on the Parisian model of orchestral accompani-
ments to all vocal selections The Harts are in N.Z.,
doing the back blocks Beatty, of T.E., Christchurch,
is bringing an action against Alf. Hayman for breaking
an engagement to play the Pomeroy at the theatre
Theo. Hamilton (will he never die?) and W. Wills
have taken Princess Theatre, Dunedin, and are going
to open with Riggs—George Coppin and Pomeroy to
follow. So they say De Lias has engaged Fred.
Marshall for a New Zealand tour Mrs. Walter
Hill and J. J. Walker at Qreymouth, playing in
“New Magdalen.” Lizzie Morgan benefited at Duke
of Edinburgh Theatre, Hokitika Mr. Charles
Hall has left " the greatest actor of the universe.”
Mr. Stephen Massett is still giving entertainments in
New York Chang, the Chinese Giant, is likely to
visit Australia and New Zealand again Madame
Anna Bishop is assisting at periodical concerts in New
York Mr. Clement Scott,|dramatist, and editor of
the London Theatre is about to visit America M.
Planquette, tbe composer of “Les Cloches de Com-
ville," is about to convert “ Rip Van Winkle” into an
opera bouffe If the Baltimore correspondent of the
New York Clipper is to be believed, Mrs. Scott-
Siddons is now supported by a very indifferent company.
At Christchurch, Pollard, of the Juvenile Pinafore
Company, was sued for £2O by the chorus. Verdict
for amount In Aberdeen (Eng ), the Zealandia Pano-
rama “took well"—Sydney Colville sings and George
Lingard plays upon the penny whistle Professor
Haselmayer was robbed at Auckland of a satchel
containing £lB and a pair of diamond earrings. A
policeman named Pardy recovered the property in such
a skilful manner as to make one believe him to be a very
smart Pardy indeed Henry Power is stage-manager
for Lydia Howarde at the Queen’s, Dunedin. The
troupe’s last production was “The Doctor of Alcan-
tara," Harry playing the Doctor Forbes Robertson
(Romeo) has executed a magnificent oil painting Of
Modjeska as Juliet. It is said to be a very artistic
production Greville produces “The World" in
splendid style at Melbourne in about two months' time.
Miss Maggie Knight met with a capital reception
at Dunedin The story goes that at Chicago, recently.
Signor Campanini, playing in “ Favorita ’’ with Miss
Annie Louise Cary, kissed the lady rather more warmly
than was consonant with the dignity of a lady-citizen
of the United States; and that Miss Annie Louise
“ tucked her head a little on one side and bit him on
the neck." Signor Campanini feared the intervention
of hydrophobia, but rapidly recovered after Mr. Charles
Mapleson had persuaded him to be vaccinated.
Sardou, when once asked the difference between
a drama and a comedy, said, “ The distinction is very
simple. In a drama the plot turns on a murder ; in a
comedy on a marriage. The question is, in a comedy,
whether the marriage will take place or no; and in a
drama, whether the murder will be accomplished or
not. There will be a marriage—there will be a murder 1
this is the first act. There will be no marriage or no
murder; this is the second act. A new incident
happens, a new manner of killing or marrying ; that is
the third act. An obstacle arises which prevents the
killing or marrying; that is the fourth act. This must
finish, and so in the fifth act the marriage or the murder
is consummated or accomplished, because everything
must have an end.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
We suppose we’d be hauled up for libel were we
to hint, however distantly, that any one of the Sydney
theatres isn’t thoroughly perfect in every respect. So
we’ll at once say that we don’t think there’s any theatre
in Sydney which could be improved on in any way. We
don’t consider that in Sydney such a tragedy as that
which occurred the other day at the Nice opera house
would be possible. It would be utterly out of question,
in the event of fire, for anyone to be burnt or trampled
to death in any Sydney theatre. Some of our theatres
have, it is true, better means of exit than others, but all
of them are simply perfect. We don’t want to injure
anybody’s business, and we don’t consider that the
Colonial Secretary, or the police, or anybody else,
should look the matter up. Sir Henry Parkes sees that
no money is charged for admission to theatres on Sun-
days, and we don’t think he can reasonably be expected
to do more. Sir Henry knows, just as well as we do,
that managers are always ready to spend money, and
that they always do voluntarily anything which is re-
quired to secure the safety and comfort of their patrons.
There now 1
* « «
It is not, fortunately, any portion of our duty
to pry into managerial secrets; and this at once obvi-
ates the necessity of our even hazarding a conjecture at
the reason which induced Mr. Arthur Gamer to put the
play of “ The Colleen Bawn" on the boards of the
Theatre Royal on Saturday night. Wo do, however,
consider it to be a portion of our duty to state that in
our opinion scarcely any piece could have been selected
that was less adapted to the capabilities of the small
body of ladies and gentlemen now under engagement to
Mr. Gamer than “The Colleen Bawn” aforesaid. The
company at the Royal, if the truth must be told, is not
a strong company. The feeble manner in which they
acquitted themselves in “ The Upper Crust" proved
this beyond all question. There is ability scattered
amongst them, it is true, but the “backbone” is absent.
Unquestionably the most talented member of the com-
pany is Mr. Titheradge; but, excellent as that
gentleman is in comedies of the Roberstonian and
Byronic schools, he does not gleam with any especial
brightness in melodrama. The same may be hazarded
of Mr. E. Shepherd, and emphatically said in respect to
Mr. Gamer. It will not, therefore, be a matter of
surprise to our readers to hear that the performance
was a very long way indeed from being an artistic
success.
# * *
Unless we are very much mistaken, the habitues
of the Theatre Royal (we mean those that pay for ad-
mission) don’t want to see “ The Colleen Bawn."
Indeed, this surmise on our own parts seems borne out
by the fact of an almost empty dress-circle greeting its
first representation. The stalls were—well—by no
means inconveniently crowded, but there was a very
excellent pit. As a play, “ The Colleen Bawn” has con-
siderable literary and dramatic merit. Its plot is not
original, but is taken (and with the characteristic
modesty of the adapter never acknowledged to be
taken) from Gerald Griffin’s charming novel “ The Col-
legians." This book is such an intensely powerful one,
and has afforded such good material to the playright,
that a piece very strong in “ situations” has been the
result. We are, indeed, disposed to consider “ The
Colleen Bawn” as perhaps the best Boucicaultism that
was ever Boucicaulted by the great Boucicaultist. The
play was originally produced about twenty years ago at
the London Adelphi, and ran for about 300 nights. Her
Majesty the Queen (hats off!) and His Royal Highness
the Prince Consort (now dead, peace be to his manes !)
attending its representation no less than five times.
This alone should be sufficient (like the opinion of the
Prince of Wales—who can’t draw a line—of a picture)
to give a drama undying popularity. And without a
doubt “ The Colleen Bawn” is popular—with a certain
section of the community. So much so that it is
reckoned by many managers as a sure Saturday night’s
draw, and many a “ pro.” will bear us witness when we
say that on many occasions it has caused the “ ghost"
to walk, although perhaps with a crutch, at a time
when that pecuniary phantom had been unable to per-
ambulate on any other terms whatsoever.
* * •
The performance of the “ Colleen Bawn” at the
Theatre Royal was, on Saturday night, chiefly remark,
able for an extremely turbulent pit, and for an extraor-
nary waistcoat sported by Mr. F. Cates, the Hardress
Cregan of the hour. To a noisy pit on Saturday night
one soon gets accustomed, but it would take us many
long years before we could become accustomed to the
extraordinary garment exhibited by the Colleen’s hubby.
The supplice of being condemned to wear such a garment
would turn any man’s brain, and we therefore cheerfully
pardoned many of Hardress’s eccentricities in the coarse
of the performance, considering, and, we think, justly
so, that no person could be considered a free agent when
inside a waistcoat that even George IV. (hats off again,
please!) would in his wildest days of buckishness have
hesitated about donning. Mr. Garner looked passably
picturesque as Kyrle Daly, his American cloth Hessian
tops being much admired, and Mr. Stewart would, in
his Irish dress, have looked a good deal more like Myles-
na-Coppaleen if he had not made up his face as Barnaby
Doublechick. The scenery was passable—although in
the water cave scene the rock resembled in too great a
degree a Saratoga trunk covered by a railway rug to be
thoroughly realistic.
* * ♦
The acting throughout was very even in its
mediocrity. Mr. Cates’ performance of Hardress, how-
ever, must be allowed to stand out to a large extent iu
relief, as that gentleman has never, in our experience,
been entrusted with a part less adapted to his peculiar
capabilities. Apparently satisfied from the outset that
the task before him was a hopeless one, Mr. Cates
walked through the piece like a militia corporal through
a garrison town, and showed no more emotion in his
scenes with Eily O’Connor than did the legendary oyster
when it was crossed in love. Mr. R. Stewart as Myles
was jovial enough, and sang his songs in a manner which
appeared to afford the unlaved a very large amount of
satisfaction. Mr. Titheradge tried very hard to make
Danny Mann a success, but as Mr. T. is nnsuited to
melodrama his efforts were largely nullified by the
rough-and-tumble action of the piece. Mr. Gamer
walked and talked nicely as Kyrle Daly, and Mr. J. H.
Eainford talked and walked fairly as Mr. Corrigan.
The potheen-loving Father Tom was represented—and
exceedingly well represented too —by Mr. E. Shepherd,
and Mr. Richard Daly played with Dalycious unobtrn-
siveness the role of Hyland Creagh. By the way, Mr.
Shepherd in ecclesiastical parts, is a perfect “ star.”
* * *
Ely O’Connor found a representative in Miss
Alma Santon, and that lady, of course, did her best —as
she invariably does —to please her audience. We do not
want to be unkind, and therefore we will content our-
selves with saying that Miss Santon was a very nice
Eily indeed. At the same time we must own that we
wouldn’t ride more than —say —20 miles on a borrowed
zebra to see her in the part again. Mrs. Stammers
made a capital Mrs. Cregan, and the Ann Chute of Mrs.
George Gordon was very nice indeed. Miss Annie
Taylor as Sheelah was very nice, too, only she uses up
too many wisps of paper in lighting her pipe.
• * *
We understand that Mr. Garner’s season closes
on the 9th inst. (to-night), when Mrs. Garner (Miss
Blanche Stammers) will take a farewell of the Sydney
public, appearing as Galatea—the best thing she does—
in Gilbert's beautiful comedy, and as Mrs. Larkins in
“ Woodcock’s Little Game.” Miss Stammers deserves
well of Sydney playgoers, and we have no doubt what-
ever that her benefit will be very largely attended
indeed. It is a little unfortunate however, for both
ladies that Miss Stammers' farewell should be on the
evening which precedes Miss Anuis Montague’s benefit
at the Gaiety.
** * *
“ Pinafore” was amateurised at Newcastle on
several recent evenings, and, we are told, £370 taken.
There seems to be locally but one opinion about the
performance, viz., that it was glorious, or, as the local
Cave o t Addham puts it, “ its equal was never seen
in the colonies.” In fact, the enthusiastic relations of
Josephine, Buttercup, Sir Joseph, and the Captain,
assert that they doubt whether the original caste could
be compared to it. Josephine sang capitally, but then
she did nothing but sing—except, perhaps, that she
looked nice. Sir Joseph Porter was impersonated by a
smart young gentleman who has since candidly assured
the public through the medium of the press that his
conception of the character was entirely original. So
it was. Sir Joseph of the play couldn’t sing a note, and
he couldn’t sing half a note; Sir Joseph didn’t assume
any official importance, neither did he; and Sir Joseph
didn’t wink at his sisters and his cousins and his aunts
in the dress circle, but he did. The only two who at-
tempted to sing and act their parts were Buttercup and
the Captain. In fact, it was all sing and no satire. But
so satisfied are the amateurs that they have mastered
“ Pinafore” that they are now going to produce either
“ Maritana" or “ The Pirates of Penzance." We trust
to see them in Sydney shortly.
* * * *
At the Gaiety, “ Faust ” ran until Tuesday last,
when “ The Rose of Castile ” was produced, a notice of
which appears elsewhere. To-morrow (Friday) night is
Miss Annis Montague’s benefit, and from the popularity
of the lady and the phrenzied manner in which Mr. W.
Le Couteur has been working the affair up, there ought
to be a crowded house. Portions of “ The Bohemian
Girl ” and “ Faust" will be produced; so those that go—
Will see her in Arline,
Also in Margherita;
So sweet in both, we ween,
We don’t know which is sweeter.
And Turner, too, will fling
His notes up to the roof;
And Farley, he will sing
His fav’rite Devilshoof.
St. Clair will warble, too,
And Lambert will be in it; —
bo take two tickets, do.
And don’t you waste a minute;
Half-sov. will buy you two.
And there is “ millions in it.”
This verse is rather in the style of Mr. Slam’s lyrics;
hut no matter. The intention is good.
* * * *
Hudson’s Surprise Party sailed for Cooktown on
Saturday, and intend working back overland to Sydney.
Tommy informs hs that he has cleared “ a few thou.”
in India, where he purposes returning at the expiration
of his colonial tour The company had a good time in
Sydney, and take with them the good wishes of a large
body of friends. What is curious about these people is
that they never seem to get old. Tommy himself looks
remarkably young—more especially in Slocum’s Dog,
where he goes to school with his slate over his shoulder.
Holly positively beams with the sunshine of youth, and
Glover, when he is doing his music-hall “ biz ’’ prior to
singing “ ft Makes a Man Look Like a Fool," looks like
a cherub from out a coral shell. Santly and the girls are
also full of life and jollity, and the success of the company
is, we take it, in no small degree due to the vigor which
pervades the troupe. The company will be absent about
four months, at the expiration of which period any of
the male members will be on view any morning serenely
“ bait-bobbing” off Garden Island.
*■ * * *
We have received from Mr. James South a tele-
gram, in which he states that a paragraph which
recently appeared in The Bulletin, respecting his dis-
pute with the Misses Horan is “ a tissue of falsehoods.”
We stated that the yeung ladies in question were in
receipt of rather an “emaciated" salary when playing
with Mr. South’s company, and that on arriving in
Sydney tbey declined to go down South on the same
terms. They demanded £lO per week, instead of £B,
which Mr. South had previously been paying them.
Mr. S. refused, and procured substitutes, travelling
away to Goulbum with the bills in which figured the
names of the Misses Horan as the representatives of
Buttercup and Hebe. The young ladies objected to
this, and, on being applied' to, we wrote a par. merely
calling attention to the circumstances under which they
left, and stating the names of their substitutes. At
this Mr. South is angry, and says, “ The * emaciated ’
salary was £8 per week." Well, it does not strike us
that £8 per week is a very gigantic sum to pay for
the services, by a successful manager, of two young
ladies singing in opera; but when it is stated that these
girls were required to pay all that their board amounted
to, over £1 weekly, out of the £4 they each drew, it
will be seen that, as their hotel bills usually amounted
to something like 35s apiece, they were getting little, if
anything, more than is usually paid to ladies of the
chorus. This being the ease (and we are assured that
it is so), we think the Misses Horan were perfectly
justified in asking for more money, and that they acted
precisely as James himself would have acted had he
been in their position. We fail now to see where “ the
tissue of falsehoods ’’ comes in, and recommend Mr.
South in future, if he has anything to complain of,
instead of wiring a lot of rubbish to us at a cost of three
pit tickets, to sit calmly down in the bar parlour and
confine himself and his grievance to twopenny worth of
“ pot-hooks and hangers."
* * * *
Lester Wallack has had a bit of bad lack lately
in New York. He purchased “ The Upper Crust" for a
large sum, but, although magnificently acted, it was al- ■
most as big a frost there as it was here. Then he produced
Albery’s “ Where’s the Cat ?” with no better results,
and he is now to try his luck with the Harris-Pettit-
Merritt sensation, “ The World.” Lester, of course,
plays the leading parts himself, and perhaps does not
realise that he is not quite so sprightU as he was some
fifty years ago. From other American files we learn
that our very own Ge-orge Darrell is still in America,
writing a backwoods drama, the title of which will
probably be “ The Blood-Soaked Dagger : or, The
Coffin-Lid Ravine.” How we long to see the famous
Australian author-actor in a red shirt and a belt
bristling with bowie-knives, dealing out death and
destruction to an army of well-trained “ supes!” It
has. it seems (as stated elsewhere), been finally decided
that Emile Melville comes to Australia, with Locke
for agent. For this Locke it is needless to state we
shall be on the key vive.
* * * *
Miss Anna Dickinson, the American lecturess,
who was to have starred in “Hamlet” through the
States, has not been playing, but playing up. At
Boston she was to have played Claude Meinotte, but she
positively refused to appear. She left the Continental
Hotel, and went to Elizabeth, N.J., where she positively
refused to see any one, or to answer telegrams from her
manager. John Stetson will, says the Clipper, com-
mence a suit against her for damages.
* * * *
It is not at all surprising that .‘‘The Upper
Crust " did not succeed here. It was played by a weak
company, and the piece formed the entire bill. See now
the different manner in which things are managed in
Loudon. Here is a clipping from Mr. J. L. Toole’s
advertisement of the Folly Theatre:—“ 354th Night.—
The Greatest Comedv Success of the Time.—Every
evening, at eight, ‘ The Upper Crust.’ At half-past
seven, Hester’s Mystery. At ten, the Wizard of the
Wilderness. The Wizard, Mr. J. L. Toole. Doors
open at seven.” It will thus be seen that even with
such a draw as Toole in the comedy, it has been thought
necessary to sandwich “ The Upper Crust” between a
petite comMie and a screaming farce. With regard to
the Wizard, it would appear to be great fun. Toole,
of course, plays the Magician, and in the course of the
piece, says “ Carados,” he produces a complete baby’s
basket, bottle and all, out of a borrowed hat; live fishes
in globes (with oilskin covers on) out of his pockets—l
mean from a silk handkerchief; he distributes crackers
and flowers obtained from all manner of unlikely places,
and performs all the ordinary wonders of the very
ordinary conjurer, with this distinction, however, that,
while Mr. Toole puts on no end of grand airs and
excessive manner, his real aim is to do the tricks as
badly as possible, and show the working of them as
palpably as he possibly can.
* * * *
A piece called “ Gerty ” has been produced at
the London Park Theatre with some success. In it
there is a suicide and a seduction, a murder and an
abduction. Surely the author cannot be . But no!
He is in the States.
* * * *
Mr. and Mrs. D’Arcy Head have arrived in
Sydney from Wagga, where they, with their wonder-
fully clever little daughter Annie, have been performing
with much success. Garnet Walch recently wrote a
long sketch in the Federal Australian about these
good people, in which he lavishes upon them any quan-
tity of marmalade. Mr. Read is well known here in
connection with his exhibition of the “ Ghost,” which
was so successful at the Guild Hall some years ago.
We trust these sweet people will soon get a show at one
of the metropolitan theatres, or that the ghost will
walk on his own account.
* * * *
The appearance again amongst us of McLean’s
Troubadours can hardly be called a matter for con-
gratulation, inasmuch as their performances are, for
reasons which we will presently explain, neither very
entertaining nor very instructive. The two boys—
Parlato and McLean—are certainly clever, at times
disagreeably so, and both of them can talk Dutch
gibberish and Irish jargon. Years ago, when the Trouba-
dours were children properly so called, there was some
fun in the exhibition; but as the troupe, at present,
is composed of members of all ages and sizes, they
resemble nothing so much as a dozen or so of odd nails
thrown into a carpenter’s basket. We wish we could
say something a little more pleasant about this company,
but we do not think we should be right in following the
example of our contemporaries, and inducing the pro-
prietors of the entertainment to lay the soft unction to
their souls that their show contains something that is
genuinely attractive.
* * * *
Mr. Sam Howard is back in town from Grafton.
Fortune has smiled upon the veteran, and once more
that noble jewel adorns his “ neckankercher,” and that
gleaming ring his dusky digit. They worship him up
Manning Eiver way almost as devoutly as Aaron wor-
shipped the golden calf, and Sam says it is the finest
country in the world. He ought to know 1
* * * *
How much of this is true, we wonder ? Says the
S. P. News Letter :— “Alice Lingard,who has travelled
here, there and everywhere, says of the News Letter ;
‘ It is the only paper on the Pacific Coast that I have
seen in all parts of the world, even in Egypt. One feels
happy as the little pink-covered pamphlet arrests the
eye, coming as it does frotn home.’ The same lady,
speaking of Australia, says: * They are at once the
kindest and most appreciative audience I ever came
before. In Auckland, New Zealand, I had two benefits
within two weeks,which were crowded to suffocation and
most remunerative.’ The Lingards cleared £14,000 in
the colonies.’’ Any way we look at it, the story is
rather a different one from that told by Mr. W. Horace
at the insolvency examination in Auckland which pre-
ceded the now historic slither.
* * * *
Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivau’s new comic opera
satirizing the aesthetic craze is called “ Patience,”
which is the name of the dairymaid who is the heroine.
It was produced at the London Opera Comique on the
23rd nit.
* * * *
Miss Marian Melrose benefited on the 28th of
last month at Rockhampton. The bill of fare included
—Byron’s comedy, “ The Old Story,” a new burlesque
“ Tne Maid and the Magpie,” and a lecture npon Rock-
hampton, with panoramic views, by Mr. Harry Emmet.”
“Little Nell” was received with much “ entusymusy’,
by her admirers.
* * * *
Madame St. Claire, manageress of the London
Park Theatre, was recently sued by Walter Joyce, the
actor, for £3O. On Walter’s behalf it was stated that
when, having become tired of the money-lending pro-
cess, he refused to make advances to Madame, he was
induced “ to speak to her in the brougham outside,”
and that she talked him over. On defendant’s part it
was stated that the sums claimed were advanced upon
the credit of Mr. Thicke. The verdict was for the
plaintiff. The most interesting feature in connection
with this case was the statement that the Mr. Thicke
mentioned, who is an architect, acted as Madame’s
manager, and not only worked without receiving any
payment, but actually made repeated advances of money
to his employer. Now there are some ill-natured
people who would be disposed to call the philanthropy
of Mr. Thicke a little too thin. Judgment for plain-
tiff.
* * * *
Says Carados : —“ Mr. Hiller, musical director
for Henderson, at the Globe, was? on Wednesday pre-
sented by the members of the orchestra, through D’Al-
bertson, the acting manager, with an ivory baton
mounted in silver and suitably inscribed. Don’t think
it a contradiction in terms if I say Hiller has been
Weller ever since.”
* * * *
In Brisbane the Austrian Band have fairly
“got” the people, and Johnny Hall, supported by Lily
and Annie Marsh, Sam. Poole, Russell, and others, has
been doing immense “biz.” during the race week.
Brisbane seems a capital field for the Marshes, and they
appear to have risen to the rank of Field-Marches in
the public estimation.
* * * *
We have just read the Northern Argus
(Rock., Q.) critique on “ Qnilp,” recently produced at
the theatre there, and we have been much entertained.
For lavish praise we have never seen anything like it—
except in the case of the Herald and R-r-rockey—we
mean Ketten. We should say that while the man lives
who lays on this oleomargarine with such a lavish band,
Rockhampton was about the worst school in Aus-
tralia for an actor or actress to study their art in. How
a company must howl for a bad notice with which to
break the monotony after they have been up there a few
weeks!
* * * *
On Friday week, Mr. and Mrs. Professor Jacobs
gave a benefit in Mudgee for themselves and the hos-
pital. For a full notice, however, we must refer our
readers to the Giraffe of Mudgee. He witnessed Jacobs,
and will tell you what Esau.
* * * *
Mr. J. W. Tyrrell writes to us to ask if we will
kindly notify his arrival here from New Zealand. Of
coarse we will—with pleasure. Why, when we got his
letter it sent quite a Tyrrell of joy through our hearts.
He didn’t send his address, or we would have put that
in too. We’re getting better-natured every week.
* * * *
In Melbourne, things theatrical are still lively.
Mr. F. Marshall has taken off “ Jeames,” and is now
playing “Uncle," and the “ Old Story.” Business has
slightly fallen off under the change. At the Opera
House “ The Pirates” still holds the boards, and the
spectacular “ Antony and Cleopatra,” with Pomeroy as
the star, is drawing freely at the Royal. At the Prin-
cess Theatre, the quiet little play of “The Headless
Horseman,” and the nautical drama of “ Gale
Breezely,” have been jumbled on, with but indifferent
benefit to the treasury. Mr. F. Marshall’s lease of the
unfortunate house at the comer will commence soon.
Stand by for a very heavy pull on your purse-strings,
Freddy.
* ** *
We understand on wbat should be the best
authority that the slander case which has been “ incu-
bating” between a well-known manager and a well-
known actor is in a fair way to be settled. We trust
that this is so. A jury of four is, so far as our experi-
ence goes, but a poor institution,
* * * *
Henry Irving and J. L. Toole will aid Admiral
Carr Glyn in distributing a portion of the late Adelaide
Neilson’s money among needy actors in England. Why
limit it to England, when every post at Punch’s corner
supports at mid-day a pro. who is yearning to borrow a
trifle ? If Admiral Carr Glyn, who has the handling of
the money, could only overhear a few conversations
that we know of with reference to the non-perambula-
tion of the ghost, his too solid flesh would melt, and he
would direct J. L. and Henry to send out a handsome
sum for us to distribute. The Irish famine was nothing
to it —and didn’t we all give our mite to that ?
* ** *
This is a fact, and when we say that it is as true
as a juryman’s oath perhaps the millions that people
the earth will believe it. Not long ago Paddy Doran’s
Vanity Troupe went to give a show in a hall at Maketu,
N.Z., and Paddy took the money (under £3) while the
others dressed. When Paddy came out for a bit to look
round before ringing up the double blanket, lo! and be-
hold, he saw that a large crowd of selectors had lit an
enormous bush fire to the right of the show, while two
other men were busily engaged in boring_ the wooden
sides of the building with auger-holes. As if this wasn t
bad enough, on Patrick looking up the other side of the
hall he discovered 25 stalwart farm boys, comfortably
established on a 50ft. ladder. Pat since advises all the
Italian Opera companies he can come across to visit
that district, and he even, it is said, sent Cole a bogus
requisition.
* ** *
By last mail we received from Mr. L. E. Cook,
Cole’s manager, a most interesting letter, which, we
regret to say, space this issue does not allow us to print
in extenso. The big show, after playing in ’Frisco for
two weeks, was to proceed eastward over the line of rail
just opened through New Mexico and Arizona, thus
taking in a section of country never before visited by a
circus of any kind, much less by a company uting its
own cars. The clever Willie Edouin, and his charming
wife. Miss Alice Atherton, were at the Standard
8
Jane 11. 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Theatre, with a company which, according to our cor-
respondent, was simply superb. They are coming to
Australia soon, and so is Miss Katherine Rogers, who
has a good English, as well as American, reputation.
Archibald Forbes was really ill at the Palace Hotel, and
it was owing to “ the doctor’s orders” that he refrained
from leaving for Australia. Keene, the new star trage-
dian, was to open at Bush-street on 16th April, and was
sure of a hearty reception. There was a surprising num-
ber of combinations on the road, and the anticipated
success from the coming campaign would, it was
thought, advance salaries for good people at least 20 per
cent. Professional prospects, therefore, were very
bright.
* * * *
Here is a nice lively little par. about the new
operas, which are to be produced (one day) in Sydney.
First we will give you, sweet readers, a verse and the
chorus from Gilbert and Sullivan’s new [esthetic opera,
“Patience.” The title of the song is, “I’m quite too
consummately utter:”—
While I yet was in the cradle I was quite a young
[esthete,
For the monthly nurse in raptures called me * utterly
too sweet,’
And my mother thought me * precious,’ while my father
gives his word
That my screams were the * intensest * by a lot he ever
heard.
(Chorus —accompanied by mandolins :)
I’ve a Japanese dado
Would charm the Mikado;
O’er my walls bilious butterflies flutter
I adore Botticelli —
In short, let me tell ye.
I’m quite too consummately utter.”
This is funny, but to us it does not seem to have the
polished “ ring ” of Gilbert. This verse though, from
the crack song in “ Billee Taylor," “ It's all on account
of Eliza," is sure to become popular. It is sung by Ben
Barnacle: —
“ I’ve courted the ladies all through my life.
All on account of Eliza;
But never could steer to the proper wife.
All on account of Eliza.
I’ve kissed and caressed them in every port.
The fat and the lean, the tall and the short.
But, somehow or other, they wasn’t my sort,
All on account of Eliza.
Cho. —All on account, all on account.
All on account of Eliza;
But, somehow or other, they wasn’t his'.sort.
All on account of Eliza.”
We may state, for the benefit of whom it may concern,
that “ Billee” is a very easy opera to mount, that the
dresses are procurable almost anywhere, and that the
music is simple and very catching.
* * * *
Mr. Bergin, the Pirate King’s lieutenant, is a
favourite in Melbourne. He did not make much of a
mark here, it is true, but at that time we snppose he
was only a Berginer.
* * * *
Mr. Walter Reynolds has been writing to the
Wellington papers defending juvenile performances.
“ When I was 12 years old,” he says, “ my mother died,
broken-hearted by my father's ruin. I was withdrawn
from college, at St. Omer, France, sent to London,
when at that very tender age, in that very tender-
hearted city, I, who had been tenderly reared, was
forced to draw a truck, often heaped with a load suffi-
cient to tax the strength of a man, through the streets
of that great city in order to find food and lodging and
scanty clothing. Immediately after this I (still a boy
under 13) laboured (there is no other word for it) from
7 in the morning till 10 at night, and on Saturdays till
12, in a grocer’s shop, and had to tend, in addition, to a
horse on Sundays." This reminds us just a little of
Charles Dickens and the blacking factory. We hope
Walter didn’t pick up any of those M.S.S. in that shop.
* * * *
The Kelly and Leon Troupe are now doing the
Southern Queensland towns with great success. They
-return, we believe, to play the Pirates under Liddy’s
management, that dissyllabic dodger having taken what
Kowalski used to designate “ zee tonorle.” They are
now in Toowoomba, doing “ Pinafore,” “ Chilperic,”
and “ Trial by Jury.” We should like a line, by the
way, from the company occasionally. Since we have
had a Kelly-gram it is a very Leon time ago,
* * ♦ *
Miss Carrie Godfrey, we are pleased to say—
rand we wish she could notice our beaming smile while
we are writing—made a great hit in “ Un Ballo in
Maschera," at Auckland recently. Amongst other
things equally flattering, the N.Z. Herald says: “ Her
voice is a contralto of average range, perfectly under
control, and sometimes very round and resonant in the
lower notes. She attires her part with excellent taste,
and always elicits very genuine applause and
.appreciation.”
* * * *
The Irving Dramatic Club had a good meeting
the other evening. They play—it is understood some-
thing choice —in about three weeks.
* * * *
The S.F. Newsletter informs us that Mrs.
Lingard, “ inspired by the example of Sara Bernhardt,
Catherine Lewis, and others,” is dabbing in oil. This
is not the first time Alice Dunning has dabbling in the
same commodity. In New Zealand, not long ago, it was
the oil she cast upon the troubled waters that squared
the exit for herself and William Horace.—TheWilhelmj
Combination have “ bust up” at Grass Valley, Cal., and
so are, of course, coming to Australia! —At ’Frisco,
Billee Taylor and Olivette are still the great draws.
Isn’t it about time we had Billee Taylor and Olivette
■out here? —The Yokes Family, playing recently at the
Globe Theatre, Boston, cleared £3300 in one week.
How curious it is some fellows don’t ring those “ Belles
•of the Kitchen!”
* * * *
The Prince of Wales is, it appears, so far
at any rate, as the opera is concerned, a “ dead-head.”
It would appear that it is etiquette that the Prince
shall not be charged for his box if he "honors
the opera with his presence.” At Her Majesty’s, how-
ever, the royal box is a “property" box; and although
the Prince, of course, never has to pay, the manager
has to do so. At Co vent Garden, the Royal box is
gratuitous, hence the reason that the Prince usually
selects the Royal Italian Opera. H.R.H. is, how-
ever, frequently seen at Her Majesty’s, in the Guards’
box in the stall tier, which is a club box, and is, so far
as the Prince is concerned, gratuitous. It is said, how-
ever, that if His Royal Highness does not pay for
admission in front of the scenes, he pays through the
nose.for his experience behind them.
* * * *
A cablegram, received in Auckland from ’Frisco,
announces that Emilie Melville will arrive by the June
mail, with a full “ Pirates of Penzance ” company. The
orchestral music is scored by Sullivan himself. D’Oyly
Carte is said to be the speculator. We give this for
what it is worth. We hope it’s true. Bay less is said to
know a little about it.
* * * *
It is not generally known that Mr. Henry
Labouchere, M.P., is married to Miss Henrietta
Hodson. That lady attended the court every day during
the Lawson-Labouchere trial, and took the greatest
possible interest in the proceedings. The devotion of
some wives is wonderful!
* * * *
Messrs. Solomons and H. P. Stephens are re-
joicing over the success of “ Billee Taylor ” in America.
Their new comic opera, “ Claude Duval,” will be pro-
duced in the autumn, and they have been commissioned
to do another. They are getting on (says a London
Eaper), and Gilbert and Sullivan must look to their
mrels.
* * * *
The Tamworth Amateurs do not seem to be
popular in Tamworth, however much they may be so in
other parts of the universe. They recently gave an en-
tertainment in Tamworth to an audience which,
judging from the report of the affair, must have
consisted almost exclusively of the sisters and the cou-
sins and the aunts of the performers. The programme
consisted of a farce, “ Borrowed Plumes,” a musical
olio, and a comedietta, “ Done on both sides.” Messrs.
Stevens, Lillycrap and Cohen, and Mesdames Stevens
and Lillycrap played in the farces, while a gentleman
named Smith sang “ Killamey,” and a Mr. W. F.
Tribe Rave “ Barney O’Hea” and rather a bald-headed
story. The amateurs say that if they don’t get more
success up in Tamworth, they’ll come down to Sydney
and engage the gospel tent.
* * **
All our readers, we suppose, have heard the
touching story of the little midshipman who played in
the original “ Pinafore,” in London. Well, Mr.
Clement Scott, the clever “ Almaviva” of London
Figaro, has found, on the little fellow’s death, a very
beautiful poem, of which the following is a portion :
“ Give me a kiss, my mother, and put me away to bed.
For my limbs they ache j I shiver; I’ve pains in my
throbbing head,
I feel to-night so weary.’ And out of his tuneful store
He murmured the airs, in a childlike way, of ‘ Her
Majesty’s Pinafore.’
•Oh say that you love me.darling!’ she whispered, pale
with fears ;
But he murmured, ‘ Hardly ever,’ as he kissed away
her tears;
And then, as a nightmare’s vision the mind of a sleeper
haunts.
He said, * You’ll be kind to my cousins, my sisters, and
my aunts.'
On the ship that had been his playground he sailed to
his rest at last.
With a cheer for his baby comrades as he clung to the
yielding mast;
And he moaned out, racked with torture, as the sand
in the hour-glass ran.
‘ Well, in spite of all temptation, your boy is an English-
man.’ ”
** * *
George Rignold has finished hia provincial tour
with the 4th Henry (Ist part.) Hollingshead wants him
to take the leading part in “ The Captive,” Lytton’s
posthumous plsy, which he purposes producing at the
Lyceum in August, during Mr. Irving’s tour in the
provinces.
• * *
Mr. Wybert Eeeve will commence a season of
comedy and drama at the Gaiety Theatre, Sydney, on
April 17, his opening piece being, “The Woman in
White ” The impression made by Mr. Eeeve in the
character of Fosoo, in his first and last appearance in
Sydney, some two years ago, will be distinctly remem-
bered by all theatre-goers. Victorien Sardon’s great
play, “Diplomacy,” “The Money Spinner," Byron’s
“ Crushed Tragedian," and other pieces, will follow.
Messrs. Titheradge, Cates, and Gordon are among those
engaged to support Mr. Eeeve.
# * #
We leant by wire from Temora that the South
“ Pinafore ” cempany opened on Saturday evening, at
Ward’s theatre. The evening was wet, but still the
lower part of the house was crowded. On Monday
night the house was crammed all through. James is
sure of good business at Temora for a week at least.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Wilkinson, the Albury murderer, was a
scoundrel who never did anything, positively speaking,
for the good of his country. In fact he only benefited
New South Wales once, and that was in a negative way.
When about to be hanged he refused to eat his break-
fast. Now we’re not like Mr. Darley: we are so
charitable that we are ready to give a man credit for a
good action, without enquiring the motive which
dictated it, so, making no more than passing reference co
the fact that Mr. Wilkinson’s breakfast was ready
cooked when it was offered him, and wouldn’t keep till
next day, we say that his having declined to eat it
shows that he was truly penitent, that he had at last
become possessed of a tender solicitude for the feelings
of the taxpayers, and that had he lived, much might
have been expected of him. We don’t think anybody
will quarrel with the latter proposition, at any rate.
* * *
When the mail left London, there were strong
hopes that the Boers were going to fall out and fight
among themselves about the terms of peace. The
Archbishop of Canterbury, who, when the war began,
put up a petition for the success of our arms, which
seems to have missed fire somehow, was daily expecting
orders to frame a special form of prayer for that and fine
weather.
« « •
The loss of the Boers in driving 600 British
troops from Majuba Hill—one of the strongest positions
ever held—amounted to the prodigious number of two
killed and three wounded 1 This shows that the defence
must have been truly heroic. During the whole period
of the Transvaal war, the Boers’ loss did not exceed
forty men, all told. The figures we give are from the
London Times, and recall a row we once saw, or rather
heard, on the Etheridge River, in the Far hiorth. Two
big camps of Chinamen fought continuously for seventy-
two hours, at the end of which period the total
casualties amounted to one dead and two wounded.
The dead man, who was far advanced in consumption,
burst a blood-vessel in his efforts to yell, and of the
wounded, one —a lame man—screwed his ankle in helping
a dog to chase a wallaby, while the other fellow, who
was on the opposite side, was knocked over the head
with a pick handle for trying to steal tobacco from a
mate’s tent. However, as the British lost 300 men in
the Transvaal, it seems as if the Boers did a little
fighting. Good heavens! We Britishers licked by
Dutchmen! Only fancy Nicholas van Spoonendyke,
Wouter van Twiller, and Hans Schwillensanfenschwe-
dischtumipstein smashing up all the glories of the
Yere de Veres, and Howards, and Brabazons ! “ Peace
with honor !” Ha, ha! Has the combative instinct
died “jvith the taint of the olden leaven?” Has the
Quaker driven the Norman from out of old England ?
* * *
Tent whine ia now done away with so far as the
T.M.C.A. is concerned.
. * * *
Mr. Cain had the reputation of being a “ bad
egg.” It is stated that he killed his brother Abel.
The evidence against him, however, is purely circum-
stantial, and we haven’t the slightest hesitation ia say-
ing that had the case been tried before some intelligent
■juries of the present day the verdict would have been
either that the prisoner was guilty of arson in the first
degree, and that his previous good character was
sufficient to warrant a big recommendation to mercy,
or that the deceased died from natural causes, accele-
rated by acts of intemperance, and that the prisoner left
the court without the slightest stain upon his character.
The ancients had the bulge on us when Town Hall con-
tractors were concerned, but we can stand the whole
caboodle of them on their heads when it comes to a
question of Ber-ritish juries, and Ber-ritish justice.
Advance Australia!
# # *
When a Metropolitan “ drummer ” strikes
Orange on his return trip, and wishes to let his wife at
Eedfern know he will be home in time to light the
morning fire, he writes a note in Smith’s hotel to that
effect; places a 2d stamp thereon; takes his passage in
the night train, and delivers the note himself about 7.30
next day. He stamps the letter, because any person
carrying an unstamped one is liable to a fine of £2O, and
he takes it down by the train himself because, although
he can deliver it at 7.30 a.m., the postal officials cannot
do so before 11 or 12. What about “ them bicycles ?”
* * *
Another wreck. The Queen of Nations endea-
vored to anchor in front of the Wollongong Royal Hotel,
and now the soul-wearied foreman of a Melbourne Illus-
trated paper prances madly about and shrieks fortissimo.
“ Where the Satan did you stow away those old blocks
of the Tararua ?” By and bye “ those blocks " will be
found; sails are stuck up; rooks are toned down ; —for
further particul its see our next edition. And yet peo-
ple wonder why Gustave Dore wastes his valuable time
on the “ Continong.”
* * *
He was a station-hand, and as he seemed well-
educated and they had no tutor, they thought they’d
get him to teach the children. However, when they
wanted him to start work they found that they had not
a single book on the station. But “necessity is the
mother of invention.” There was on the run a very-
old bullock, which had been very often impounded. They
ran the beast m, killed him, cut the brands out of his
hide, and taught “ the kids ” their alphabet. One of the
children is now a member of Parliament, and owns
many stations. It is owing to his recollection of “ the
letters ” by which he learned to spell that he now has
so many bullocks. We fancy we’ve heard this story
before —in the long, long ago.
* * *
Once, when onr own David was on circuit, it
chanced that he was detained to defend a Chinaman in the
District Court. The brief was marked “25 guas.,” and
Davie, who, to do him justice, will work harder than
most men for any cause he is paid to take up, good or
bad, went in for a verdict. He was not long in seeing
that really there was no case against his client, and that
the matter could be settled in a few words. But Davie
knows better than to throw away his opportunities.
The court was full of pigtails, appending, some to bar-
risters, but more to countrymen of his client. So Davie
went in for making an impression. He raved to the
judge, and howled at the jury. He yelled down all in-
terruptions; he banged the table and hurt his fist.
The people in the next street came to see whose pig was
being killed. But the yellow gentlemen in the body of
the court were deeply impressed, and felt convinced
that an advocate who perspired so remarkably
copiously was a genius of the first water; and when
the verdict of not guilty, which the jurors had
been anxious to give an hour earlier, was at last re-
corded, a big deputation, all tail and feathers, waited
upon the triumphant counsel at his hotel, and made a
presentation of another 25 guineas, besides shouting
champagne with Eastern lavishness. A friend of the
hero of the hour ventured to remark that he thought
the learned gentleman had been bitterly opposed to the
leprous Mongolian, with whom he had hobnobbed so
genially. But Davie rejoined that he " didna' think
them a haad race. He had niver been sae strong as
other people aboot their fau'ts.”
« • •
In reference to the resignation of the Duke of
Argyll, “ Dagonet ” has the following in a recent num-
ber of the London Referee :
“ There was an old Duke of Argyll,
Whom the Land Bill had managed to rile.
So he kicked up a shine.
And he said ‘I resign!’
* Pray do,’ said Bill G., with a smile.
Now he’s gone, is the Duke of Argyll—
He has risen and put on his tile;
He’s a bit of an ass.
For the bill will soon pass.
And so will his fit of the bile.”
But then it must be remembered that there are no
juries of four in England.
* * *
He had blustered a good deal on a mail-steamer,
and being a big, loud, coarse, and much be-jewelled
British snob, had contrived to make himself very un-
popular on the voyage. On the steamship’s arrival, in
response to some chaff on the part of some of the pas-
sengers, he said, in aloud tone of voice, “Ton shall
hear of Horatio Beauclerc de Montmorency St. John
again ere long.’* And he was gone in the tender, like
a nightmare at daybreak. And sure enough two morn-
ings later they did hear ef him again. It was in a news-
paper paragraph;—“ A person, stated to be a new
arrival, and styling himself Horatio Beauclerc do Mont-
morency St. John was charged with being drunk and
disorderly, and this being his first offence he was fined
ss. and discharged.
The other day, an ancient and jovial Milesian
solicitor, well known in the city police courts, entered
an hotel kept by another son of the sod. “ Begorra,”
said the man of law, “ but they’re doing it right at lasht
at home, and glad I am to hear it. Both of uz knows
well what the landlords are in the ould coun-
thry.” “Thrue for ye,” replied the Celtic boniface,
“ but it looks a dale betther at home than whin ye have
it forninstyer own dhoor. I’ve a Home Ruler, and be-
gorra he must be just out, livin’ in one of me cottages
beyant, and the divil a pinny rent has he paid, and the
divil a pinny am I likely to get out of him.”
♦ * *
During the hearing of the Lawson-Labouchere
trial, Mr. Corney Grain, the celebrated entertainer, was
called as a witness for the defence. “ Who are you ?”
said Chief Justice Coleridge. “ Corney Grain,” replied
the actor. “Yes, of course. I ought to have remem-
bered that you were the well-known Corney Grain," said
his lordship ; “ but who are you ?” Corney stuck at
this, whereas if he had had a grain of natural wit, he
would have replied, “ I am as celebrated in my profes-
sion, my lord, as you are in yours—or more so.” Then
the penny-a-liner would have reported, “ Loud laughter
in Court ” —and German Reed would have raised Mr.
Grain’s salary.
* * •
We are sorry to hear that the Baroness Burdett-
Coutts has been confined—to her room, with typhus
fever.
* * *
“ To the chagrin of the quidnuncs, Miss Eccles’
breach of promise case, against Mr. Hector Wilson,
squatter, has been amicably settled between the respec-
tive lawyers.” This reminds ns that we once knew a
man who loved a girl named Eccles, and the reason he
ga v4 her up was —pickles.
* * *
What the newspapers of New South Wales
want—A little of M'Elhone’s “ privilege.”
• * *
A lady from N.Z., well connected, and of proud
carriage, and who has vn excessive contempt for the oi
polloi, is now on a visit to Sydney. She brought with
her a young Fijian girl of about eleven or twelve years,
who, in the lady’s walks through town, was entrusted
with the duty of marching behind her mistress in a
page-like manner. However, the shop windows had
a great attraction for the girl, who, when her mistress
looked round, was sometimes missing. The lady had
thns often to hunt for her attendant, which detracted
greatly from the dignity of the promenade. Not many
days ago, the lady started en grand tenue, and when near
the Supreme Court was most terribly insulted by a
country yokel coming up to her, wanting to shake
hands, and enquiring as to the welfare of “ the old
man.” Indignantly she denied all acquaintance with
the stranger, who at last discovered his mistake, and
apologised thus : “ Beg pardon, missis, but an old mate
of mine from the Shoalhaven, an American colored
gentleman, had for a wife a white woman very like
j ourself —though she mayn’t have been so good-looking.
In fact, I recollect now she hadn’t such a foine set of
teeth. I haven't seen ’um for five years come next
August, but I knew they had a little half-caste girl
about the age of this one here (who is. be it observed,
as black as the ace of spades), and so I thought I’d
speak to you. No offence, missis, I hope ?** And then
that Fijian girl got a box on the ear for keeping too close
to her “ missis." The darkey now walks abroad by
herself.
* * *
The Federal. Australian poets don’t shine
—at any rate in foreign languages. Here, for instance,
is a verse from one of them —“ The O’Donohue Some-
thing”:—
“ Monsieur is attentive, Madame is the same.
And they serve you with dishes no Saxon can name.
While the mirth and delight from the callers that flow
Would puzzle the hermit of, Ballinasloe.
OM! Vive le Cate Panard !’*
In order to make it scan, the first line of the stanza
will have to be pronounced thus irrespective, of
course, of false quantities ;
“Mounseer is attentive, Madarm. is the same.”
. * * *
Mr. W. H. Bond writes to the Morning Bum
—and to us—to say that he was not horsewhipped,
but that “ the correct version of the affair is, that a
person challenged him to fight, and in the fracas he
received a black eye.”
Brave Bond, thou by this statement hast
Caused us to be elate.
Thy knightly valour, hero, hath
Upheld the Fourth Estate 1
All scribes are justly proud of thee.
Of thee they gladly cry:—
“ Ho got no lowly caning, but
A chivalrous black eye.”
» « *
It is not generally known that Mr. (Revivalist)
Varley, and Captain (or, rather, Colonel) Burnaby con-
tested the second Northampton election wjith Mr. Brad-
laugh. Before the event came oft the following prophecy
(in indifferent verse, it is true) appeared in a clever
London contemporary:—
“Northampton, without any parley,
At the top of the poll will put Charley j
At the bottom, you’ll see.
Will Burnaby be.
And next him Revivalist Varley.”
The anticipation embodied in this doggerel turned out
correct to the letter, and Mr. Varley has once more re-
turned to his wrestling with Satan. “ Hold the fort i”
• • •
“ Mr. L. L. Smith stated, in the House on Tues-
day night, that he was bom a gentleman, and always
acted as such. Ahem I This is the very crime (sic) de la
creme (sic) de Boosie." This extract is from the Fedbeal
Australian, and is the first instance since the Morn-
ing Bum reporters left off dropping into French that a
paper has made two mistakes in accenting in four
words. And yet this is the paper that is to “ reform it
altogether.”
* • *
Auctioneering extraordinary! It is said that at
the Water Police Court, some time since, a certain J.P,
in the iron hammer line offered to knock down a
brother magistrate. The reserve price was not men-
tioned.
* * *
About a fortnight ago the principal window in
the belfry of Christ Church had a gap poked in it by the
usual person or persona unknown. Last Sunday week,
an ingenuous old warden, happening to be moonin
about, espied a large piece of white pasteboard lying
outside, audit immediately occurred to his inventive
mind that Providence had sent that pasteboard for the
express purpose of plugging up the hole in the window.
Without a moment’s hesitation he placed the card in
the gap, and for the last ten days all who paraded
Brickfield Hill have been edified by the sight of a notice
in the church belfry advising them to “ Ask for Guin-
ness’ Bull Dog Stout, and be sure you get the right
brand.” The warden forgot,to examine both sides ef
the providential paste-board.
• ♦ *
This is how Dr. Stanley knocks the pious
stuffing out of religious prints : —“ They address them-
selves to inflame, pervert, and exaggerate every topic of
personal and party rancour.” This is dropping it rather
hot on , and —r-, and , also . [Respecting
the blanks, our readers can fill up to suit themselves.
As for ourselves, we never read those papahs.—Ed. BJ
* * »
The News informs ns that Herr Wilhelmz, the
great Hungarian violonist, will arrive about the begin-
ning of the next month." Now, “ Wilhelmz’s ” name is
Wilhelmj, and the News meant the par. to read thus:
“ Herr Wilhelmj, the great Hungarianj violonj', will
arrivej in Sydneyj by the Cityi aboutj the beginning of
nextj monthj. Mr. Chapmanj, the managerj, is now
arranging for the coming season j.” You see, Alfredo
Caro, a Hungarianj violonj would as soon go without
his dinner as without his j’s, and the chances are that
when Herr Wilhelmj reads your parj he’ll go for your
woolj like a big kangaroo pupj would go for an old
bootj. Besides, what in thunder is a “ violonist ?”
* * ♦
A correspondent says that when a Rockhampton
man wants to give an actress a bouquet, he doesn’t
throw it on the stage. He deliberately stands up,
walks to the footlights, and offers it to her. This saves
all awkward mistakes as to the quarter from which the
bunch of onions comes. We have known ushers so
rascally that for a pecuniary consideration they were
always ready to put the card of the enamoured man who
brought the camellias on the humble geraniums bought
or stolen for the diva by the poor but ingenious press-
man.
* * *
Oleomargarine, as everybody knows, is made
from mud, and as there’s a plentiful supply of the
material in Sydney streets we shouldn’t wonder at
seeing a factory, and a big one, too, established here.
It is said that in former times Job lived in Sydney, and
that his exclamation “Oh that I were as in times past
when I washed my feet in butter,” had
reference to the oleomargarinic condition of the alder-
manic footpaths.
* *
A correspondent wishes to know why the new
comet was discovered by an amateur astronomer, and
not by the hired Government one. We don’t know
exactly ourselves, but we believe the comet made its
first appearance after office hours, and if comets don’t
know any better than to come waltzing round at a time
when every honest man ought to be in bed they must
put up with the consequences. The Government can
take no notice of any comet which doesn’t report itself
officially.
♦ * *
Mr. and Mrs. (ahem!) M‘Grannahan are running
a revival show in the old country, and are reported to
be doing fine business. Moody and Sankey, on hearing
of these new and dangerous rivals, left ’Frisco in a
hurry; and instead of shaping their course for the land
of damper and billies, as intended, they have made
tracks for the old hunting-grounds in Europe, so as to
fight the trespassers on equal terms. Such dissensions
as these in the revival camp make us quite too awfully
Moody and Sankeyfied, more especially as we learn that
Mac. holds forth and does the devil-wrestling in a
heavenly style, that Mrs. Mac tortures the harmonium
divinely, and that Mr. and Mrs. Mac. sing
together so angelically as to convulse the groundlings,
and invariably bring down the house.
* * ♦
We hear that a certain theatrical manager in-
tends taking a month’s sport after the close of the
present season, for the purpose of recruiting his shat-
tered health and debilated treasury. He will shoot
under the Marsupials Prevention Act. Kangaroos, fid.
per head; wallabies, 3d; native dogs, ss,
V.
ROMANCE OF THE COMET.
He loved her, but dear “ dada” did
Know nothin? of his passion;
Her love also Ethlinda hid
In London Journal fashion.
They “ kept it dark," because they knew
If “ pa" took it in dudgeon.
He’d grasp the situation, and
He'd also grasp a bludgeon.
She lived in a dear little house
That over-lapped the water,
(We are too circumspect by half
To let you know the quarter)—
No matter; we can tell you this:
It was a little mansion.
Professionally, as they say,
“ Of limited expansion.”
Now Rudolph had a little boat,
And by himself he mann’d her,
And of a night he’d pull right up
To his adored’s verandah.
And if “papa” was at the club
He just throw up a cinder.
And sing the first bars of “ Fair Moon”—
And out would come Ethlinda.
One night when that “ fair moon” shone bright
Their love tale they were crooning.
And, well —to put it mildly—they
Were desperately spooning;
When suddenly they heard a “ Ha!”
And then an angry puffing.
When Ethlinda just gasped out “ Pa!”
And turned pale as a muffin.
“ Is this the way, my child, that you,*’
The old man cried, “ do honor me
By studying, with a strange young man,
The science of astronomy ?”
"There is no harm,” Ethlinda said,
“ That ever can come from it,
Rudolph was but explaining all
The phases of the comet."
’Twas then the old man raised his stick, —
It came down like a plummet,—
And caused that poor young man to see
A novel kind of comet.
There is not much in this, perhaps.
And it is all our tale, —
Except that we have got to add—
There is a boat for sale.
9
THE BULLETIN.
June 11, 1881.


Public Companies
MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARIIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £115,000
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITORS;
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECEETAET:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street#
.LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bonk of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
’ Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
IHE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STREET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049,
Directors:
Sir P. A. Jennings. K.C.M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. E. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH'PIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BRAY,
Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest fof Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswiok, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash j Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do'. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
ELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
First Horse £3OOO
Second Horse £lOOO
Third Horse £5OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non Starters (divided) £2OOO
6 Prizes of £lOO each £6OO
6 Prizes of £5O each £3OO
£llO Prizes of £lO each £llOO
This is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
tralian Colonies.
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO ea ch,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
Wherever possible P.O. Order should be forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODORE BROWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z.
CUP, 1881.
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OP PRIZES
ON THE
MELBOURNE CUP.
IO.OOD SUBSCRIBERS AT .£1 EACH.
ABOUT 250 PRIZES.
First Horse £l5OO
Second Horse £7OO
Third Horse £4OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non-Starters (divided) £2700
Ten Prizes at £lOO each £lOOO
Twenty Prizes at £5O each £lOOO
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each £l2OO
£lO,OOO
Please add exchange to cheques; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mr. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N. ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June, 1881. New Zealand
LTHOUGH PITT-STREET is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Public Companies
COENWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO,OOO.
EESEEVE FUND
£BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A, LLOYD AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEEET,
SIDNEY.
EO BONO PUBLICO.
THE MUTUAL TEADE PEOTECTION ASSOCIA-
TION OF N. S. W.
J. HUEST, Secretary.
Offices: 32 BEIDGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
Established upon the most improved mutual principle
for the protection of Merchants and Traders, against
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, under the auspices of
the leading Mercantile community.
The following business is undertaken, either direct,
or through the intervention of the Society’s So-
licitor :
The recovery of rents and debts by legal process or
otherwise, by written or personal application, through
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or assignment, drawn out
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, and Preferable Liens
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Segistered Documents of all kinds
searched.
The Certificates of fradulent or'unprincipled insolvents
opposed in the interests of creditors.
Debts proved in insolvent estates, and Books audited
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and made to surrender.
Searches and Private Inquiries made.
A Credit Guide issued periodically, and “Warning
Notices ’’ sent to members when required.
Assigned Estate supervised or liquidated.
Searches or Inquiries made and answered in regard to
all kinds of Mortgages, Bills of Sale, Preferable
Liens, Protection Orders, &c.
Postages, Cash Outlay for Court Fees, &c., charged
accordingly.
Eecords Filed at the Offices of the Association con-
cerning all Eegistered Acts executed in Canada,
United States, England, Scotland? Ireland, and the
Australian Colonies, New Zealand, &c.
N.B. —The facilities thus offered to the mercantile-
public enable those who wish to be safe in credit
transactions to achieve both legal rights and protec-
tion by the powerful co-operation of unity, as based
upon mutual principles.
Membership for Inquiry Branch, only 10s fid per
annum. Membership for General Branch, £1 Is per
annum.
EELIABLE COUNTEY AGENTS WANTED.
XNCOMES assured.
THE CIVIL SEEVICE BANKING AND COMMEE-
CIAL PEOVIDENT SOCIETY, Limited.
In the event of loss of situation,
MEMBE ES are entitled to receive pay in accordanc
th the amount insured for.
The Society also uses its influence to procure them,
suitable re-engagementa.
For further particulars apply to
Q. HOETON MOEEIS,
Secretary,
Wentworth-court,
Elizabeth-street,
Sydney.
Applications for Agencies invited.
Photographers
Zo27l&?rQ/
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGEAPHEE.
805 GEOEGE STEEET,
Opposite the Eailway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s fid per dozen.
NOTICE.
JROARTY,
• PHOTOGEAPHEE,
804 GEOEGE STEEET,
BEICKFIELD HILL,
Begs to inform his numerous patrons that he has just
completed extensive alterations in his premises con-
ducive to the successful working of his increasing busi-
ness, having imported, at great expense, the most
most modem appliances from the best London makers,
and having a staff of first-class assistants. By thus
studying the comfort of his customers, and his own
success, in every particular, he trusts to receive a con-
tinuance of that patronage which he has for many years
possessed.
J. K. wishes also to be understood that he employs
no Door Touter to annoy passers-by; such practice he
considers degrading in the extreme.
Portraits in all the latest styles executed with dis-
patch. Carte de Visites, artistically finished, reduced
to 7s fid per dozen, 7s fid per dozen, 7s fid per dozen.
F REEMAN AND COMPANY,.
PHOTOGRAPHER S
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOYEENOE.
346 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Oil, Crayon, and Miniature Painters.
Permanent Autotype Enlargements up to Life Size.
BOYD’S SAN FEANCISCO PALACE OF AET,
260 and 262 GEOEGE-STEEET,
(over Peate and Harcourt's),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) c f
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Black
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
LTHOUGH PITT STREET is Blocked up,
HORDERN’S isn’t.
WAUGH
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
tateanuM Mr \
m
L N «u
Jl*
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEORGE STREET, HATMARKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
Blend
Packed by ns, and bearing
packets,~andi’n canisters "of 51b and 71b; also, catties, boxes, i-ckeate, A-chests, &c. SAMPLES of
these TEAS can be obtained at the Stores, or of our travellers.—REUßEN OLIVER, Manager.
■
fJIHE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot be too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B. 0. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents, ■
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The
Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFPCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
9a— '
MANUFACTOET:
BON-ACCO.RD
WOEKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE,
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &o. ; i s
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace ;
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
IHE BEST PAINT *IN THE WOELD
<1 R
X>
ot
A
owls
!, "ae 22'^186 9 r'i
ee of
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., I gal., and i gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with [handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
ns:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it. Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week—the same with the fences."
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. ' Packages of any size required, are
forwarded daily free of charge to ail parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG.
Sole Agents, \
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmoiit Bridge,
T
HOS . J .
ENGINEERS,
SOWN & CO.,
BRASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES. SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES. AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHURST-STREET, SYDNEY.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-steeet, neae King-steekt.
L.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whitting-ham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Tciletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near Kirg-street.
10
June li, 1881,
THE BULLETIN.


Business Announcements
H. PALING,
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERT RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A PEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, PleyeTs, Anchor's,
Soufleto's, Kirkman's, and Hundt and Son’s Pin.nn-
. . lociiii
W. Bell, & Co.'s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clongh
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
f£ HOM A S WEARNE,
ENGINEER & IRONFOUNDER.
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREE C.
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
BOXES,
&c., Ac.
[|F.Atodi^&So/j
eter Watch Makers.
r>V-and Opticians.
\| }/
t> hunter Sr«£ fr iH
Illustrated Catalogues post fttt on Application.
REDGATE’S
PATENT MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
li
The most wholesome morning diet fei
children or persons in delicate health.
fill ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
MM tor all Cnmh and StonkMgwn,
"Cl AND F. W. MAS 0 1
draughtsmen
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENT
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-st.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Jjl 0 W L E R’S POTTER 1
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
4 LTHOUGH PITT STREET is Blocked up
HORDERN’S isn’t.
Tobacconists
E ’ S
JAMES E
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cat Baby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist.
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Maiilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159 PITT STREET,
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the BOUND TIN TAG,
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
15 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, 4 DELICIOUS.
/?
iTl
a.
li
3
Manufactured by
T. S A Y W E L L,
AX THE
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Chemists and Druggists
m.imz
JpUBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON'S RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DEUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
POTHECARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Paek Coknee.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMES, Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT..
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
W. D. E, thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,000 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to Pny locality.
I N D IGESTION
May be easiest cured by the following remidies:—
eames’s Quinine wine
Which improves the appetite and strengthens the
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGESTIVE CANDY
For severe cases where the gastric juice is deficient,
and when sickness and flatulencey are present.
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Which relievo the bowels gently, and so stimulate the
naturally healthy functions of all the internal
4 organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6, A 4/6.
PREPARED ONLY BY
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST, 14 OXFORD ST.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
Tickle your appetite with the Ans-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
Mr. and Mrs. booth,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT.
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STREET-
Pamphlets gratis-
SENT, Post Free, in an Envelope, for 4d.
Stamps, the BOTANIC TREATMENT for all
■Nervous Disorders, which unfit sufferers for marriage,
Ac., &c. Also, Consumption, Chronic Disease of the
Chest, Stomach, Liver, and Epilepsy. Address—R. T.
SELBY, Medical Herbalist, John-street, Waterloo,
Sydney.
XT' OR S E-C L PING MACHINES
SHARPENED, ss. each, by
R. HELLYER,
88 ELIZABETH STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
Guaranteed to Cut equal to new, or no charge made.
G. AND S. PREDDEY.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Eeskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., at lowest rates.
Chemists and Druggists
T
AKE
NO MORE
but try
EANDERSON'S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
PILLS
Do you SUFFER from HEADACHE?
Then try Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
Do you Complain of Indigestion 1
Take a few doses of Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
RANDERSON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness F
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Ate anyjof your children sick at any time P You
can safely give uhem one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
W Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
ARD ROW and COMPANY
EDW
45 and 47 George-street.
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to bo
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instan*
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OP THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S* AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand ?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOB JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
ENTRAL PHARMACY.
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM, Chemist.
STEER’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOR
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
**• They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costiveness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT-
OXFORD STREET STDNET.
T HARVEY.
* WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hay anb Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS.
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, Ac.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage to
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
Allen west
(Just from Europe),
PROFESSOR OF DANCING, Ac.,
Evening Adult classes, Mondays and Tuesdays, 8 p m.
AduP Beginner's classes, Saturdays 4 p.m. Children’s
classes, Thursdays 4.15 p.m.; Saturdays 2 p.m. Patties
wishing private tuition in Boston and Slow waltzes, Ac.,
and latest fashionable Dancing, apply at Hall from 11
till 12 noon, 344 Castlereagh-street, corner of Goulburn-
street. Residence, 161 LIVERPOOL STREET,
POSTAGE STAMPS.
TEAMWAT TICKETS.
GROCERS,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
193 OXFORD STREET
(Opposite Court-house),
DAEIIN6HU R S T.
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEADS.
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER.
608 George-street.
VARNISH COMPANY,
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brnshware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room' and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
JJOOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE TOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
(ST NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. HILDER,
670 GEORG® STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
11
THE BULLETIN.
June 11, 1881.


JJLADON’S HEALTH SA]
JgLADON’S HEALTH SAI
JJLADON’S HEALTH SAI
JJLADON’S HEALTH SAI
JgLADON’S HEALTH SAI
JgLADON’S HEALTH SAT
BLADON’S HEALTH SAL
A combination of Oxygenate
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and
Taken according to directic
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE i
rationa remedy as a preventive or
all Fnnctional Irregularities of th
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitn
purities ef the Blood, Sea-Si.
Indigestion, the effects propuced
dnlgence in rich food, or the
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, Ac.
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphtl
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, c
diseases. It is especially servicea
and should entirely supersede tl
aperients. Children take it with
vigorating effect of an occasional d
to successfully combat the insidion
It effectually destroys the Poison (
contracted in our daily walk thro
alterative and enriching qualities i
, the vital fluid to perform, in a healt
functions in the wonderful econom
piece—Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chem
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH
may justly be termed a BLOOD DI
PPBOYEI) BY THE
Govemmei
10th
Sir,—In reply to your letter, I
that the parcel was received in gi
reason of my not writing to you bei
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ she
am now directed to inform you t
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS
“ I also can vouch for the same, ai
pleasant aperient.
" I am, Sir,
“ Tours fait!
_ “Regihali
‘Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALT.
The Australian Church:
MOST REFRESHING EFFERYl
We can honestly recomi
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFi
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRI
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON,
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottle
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
B
I
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks —simple, strike.
Spectacles, etc., of all
Plain figures—Low pri(
MAbON BROTI
i sea 14 & is sv
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOO
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOC
MENTS IN THE W(
A Visit or Ikspbotion B
Wj are in a poedton to sell and
Establishments in the <
NO DAMAGED G(
OUB CUSTOMERS EEAP 1
OUE LABQE CASH P
We But fob Cash—We S
Only those who have visited on
conceive the ad van tag
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET.
Gents’ sn]
Boots, b
Babes’Fa
1/1
Large \
Gents’
Calf Sbo<
All GOODS Masked nr PLAIN PIQUEES.
Gent*’ Kid Shoes,
10/6.
Gents' English
Call Boots, sewn,
10/6—best in town.
Ladies* Olacie
Sid Button Boots,
12/6. worth 15/6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
Our Stock is always
New.
For every week’s
Sale.
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, our
own make,
7/6, worth 10/6.
Our immense pur-
chases enable ns to
undersell all other
establishments.
All GOODS Masked im PLAIN FIGURES.
The Leadi
Shop of Ai
Gents’ plai
Boots, on
6/6
For everj
Sale,
Our Stock consists of Boots :
We abstain from giving a
THE GREAT CENTRAL ROOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
G0WIN6 BROTHERS’ 10s 6d d©ubli
SILK NAGASAKI
332 & 500 Frames, are the beat
Quality, ditto, ditto
GEORGE STREET. opened this week.
CATE shipment of t)
BOWING BROTHERS’ Ready madi
in CUT, MATEED
332 & 500 TWEED SUITS, ei
o
NCE USED ALTV
E
an
m
Trade mark “ Ann and Dolly " on
out which none is gentdne. Bev
m
A LW/f)
0^
TRADE
MAR
The GEAND GOLD ME!
HIGHEST MEDAL, P
HIGHEST AWAED, Sy
LATHEES FEEELT, SOFT
AND SHOULD ALWAYS J
For Washing Clothes, Linen, 1
For Securing Floors, Greasy 1
A K E TO UE P
THE EOTAL FUENISHE
NEW AND BEAUTIFU
ATTEACTIYE PEK
A FEEE DISTEIBUTION of C
place daily, giving full information
cal House funnishing.
Houses furnished for £15
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £50
Hons*
House
House
House
The STOCK is of such extent t
have every opportunity of makinf
and careful selections. All goods
figures so that parties who are no
to make purchases can pay visits o:
tain every information in a pleasa
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BE
LATB
W. B. CAMPBE1
EOTAL FUENISHING
A KTGIGNFKASHF
THE KOOKABURRA.
Dear at any price—Sweethearts.
Will some one kindly tell ns if a blushing seam-
stress Is not a flushed sewer F
A swell, who has a dozen tailors, explains that he
doesn’t like all the loss to fall on one.
A San Francisco editor says that when he thinks
Of Ireland's woes his heart goes “ Pity Pat.”
Memo, for hypochondriacs. The man who
listens to himself firing, hears himself dying.
The man who can’t find his match has to go to
bed in the dark. And the nights are so cold now I
A young lady who graduates as a B.A. becomes
in coarse of time a MA. Then she adds BY to the first
degree.
Patrick on the zebra: “ Phawt kind of a baste is
that ? —the mule wid his ribs on the outside of his ah tin
entoirely.”
The poet who wrote the poem, “ Oh, for a
Thousand Tongues! '* was a bachelor at the time, most
probably.
King John of Abyssinia is dead. He was an
estimable gentleman, and always liked his missionary
well done.
There is a place called Papatoetoe in N.Z. It
was founded by a young fellow who had had an inter-
new with her father.
Jones: “ Shay, ol’ f’U’r, world looks diff’rnsh
to a f’ll’r after sholly goo’ lunch.” Brown: “ Yes, and
he looks different to the world.”
Ninety-nine persons out of a hundred, when
hearing of three children at a birth, will exclaim, *• How
Singular! ” when really it should be “ how plural!”
“ What’s your name?” “Susie.” “Haveyou
any sisters?” “No." “Have you any brothers?"
Two.’ “ What do they do ? ” “ Oh, they list fight.”
Pfoud parent—“ Why Florence, my dear, how
you are fixed up I Dressed for a party?" Dutiful
daughter— “ Yes, Pa, but he hasn’t come yet. Perhaps
he won’t to-night.”
A young scrapegraoe says there’s no danger of
she old gentleman cutting him off with a shilling. The
governor is so mean that he wouldn’t spend a shilling
in paper for a new will.
The young man entered the ministry because he
Said he had a call from the Lord, and then some mean
wretch asked him whether he was quite sure it wasn't
some other noise he had heard.
“ Lena.” The pimples on your lover’s face can
of course be removed. There are two ways. Let him
Stop drinking, and then, if they still continue to appear,
pull them out with a corkscrew.
This advertisement appears in a Liverpool news-
paper :—“ Wanted, by a young man of refined musical
tastes, a position as son-m-law in a quiet, well-to-do
family.—Address, with particulars,” ko.
Street arab enters tobacconist’s shop and throws
down a lead three-penny bit and says, “ gimme a cigar.”
“Look here, it ain’t good,” says the tradesman. “ I
know it, but I’ll smoke it,” replies the newsboy,
Melbourne tradesman : “Yes, Madam? and the
highest testimonial I can give to my wares is the fact
that they were the only exhibit that did not take any
prize of any kind whatever at the recent Exhibition.”
In Queensland the other day, a man put in his
mouth the muzzle of a loaded gun. A few minutes
afterwards, with the exception that his jaws were
too sore to sing, he was fully prepared to become a
first-class angel
Little Freddy was having his hair combed by
his mother, and he grumbled at the operation. “ Why,
Freddy, you oughtn’t to make such a fuss. I don't
when my hair is combed.” “ Yes, but your hair ain’t
hitched to your head.”
A Queanbeyan man, after the Oddfellows’ ball,
got on to another fellow’s horse and rode twelve miles
on the way home before he found out his mistake. He
now says it’s a bad thing to drink whiskey and colonial
beer on the same night.
A debating society is wrestling with the ques-
tion : “When a man has his life insured for five hundred
pounds, is his wife justified in refusing to prepares
mustard-plaster for him when he is seized with a sadden
and terrible attack of cold ?”
. If is alleged that one of the new Testament re-
visers strongly urged that it should be made to read
like this : If a man smite you on one cheek turn unto
lum the other also, and then send in a good one from
the shoulder while he is off guard.
The new Czar leads a very simple life. He rises
early and takes a long walk, then breakfasts with his
family, after which he goes down in the cellar and covers
himself up in the coal bin for the balance of the day to
keep out of the way of the Nihilists.
Iti a column of ‘ ‘ Discoveries Made by Accident,”
in an exchange, we see no mention of the woman who,
while sewing a button on her husband’s coat, found in
ttie inside pocket a perfumed note beginning “ Dearest
Edward,” and signed, “ Ever your own, Julia.”
What does the old guy dye his hair in that
preposterous fashion for ?’’ was his remark just as his
venerable relative entered the room. “ Because,” re-
plied his uncle in a codicilic and will-altering voice,
“ men of your age, sir, have no respect for grey hairs."
P.M. (to witness): “Are you married?” Wit-
ness: “Yes, your Worship, worse luck!” P.M.
(severely) .- " Never mind the * worse luck.’ It has
nothing to do with the case.” Witness: “ Ah 1 but it
has a lot to do with my case, your Worship—worse
luck I
Publican to ©Id “soaker:” “No I can’t give
you any more credit. You can’t be thirsty again—you
have jusc had a drink.” “Of coursh (hie) I’m not
thirty, ' was the indignant response. “If I don’t
drinksh schepten when I ish thirty, what 'vantage have
I got over a beasht of the field ?”
A North Queensland paper says that on the
gravestone, or rather grave-board, of a Palmer River
man is the following: “ This is sacred to ihe memory of
Thomas Henry Minogue, who cairn to his deth by being
shot by Colts revolver—one of the Old kind. Bras
mounted—an of Butch is the kingdom of Heaven.”
Here are two advertising curiosities culled from
a Yankee paper:—No. 1: A farmer warns the public
against harbouring his wife, who has left him at the
beginning of the summer’s work, though he has had
the expense of “ wintering " her. No. 2 is a notice for
a laundress who will be willing to “ take her pay in les-
sons on the guitar, and board on washing days.”
A Scotchman went behind a fence to pray, and
declared that if the fence should fall on him it would
bo no more than be deserved. At that moment a high
wmd blew the fence over on the petitioner. He rose
hastily from his knees, and cried out in a frightened
voice, “Hech, Lord! it’s an awfu’ warldthis; a body
canna say a thing in joke but it’s ta’en in earnest.”
From excellent authority we learn that the
details of the late Czar’s assassination are greatly
exaggerated. The unfortunate victim said nothing
about attending to the wounded : all be said was, to a
Cossack in attendance, “Give me your hankerchief 1"
and the man had scarcely replied, “ Sire, it is too dirty,”
when the second bomb exploded. These ate the actual
facts, as they occurred.
HER FAVORITE AUTHOR.
He had a literary mind.
And so he thought had she.
“ What author art thou most inclined,"
He sighed, “ Miss Kate, to see F ’’
Oh Tennyson," she yawned. « And why ? ”
He asked; "do tell me, pray ?"
“Well, after ten is on,” she laughed,
“ No author man would stay."
He didn’t tumble. With delight
He bade her guess again.
" I think Hood By-ron Home-r might
Be pleasant," said she then.
“ But wouldn’t Lover please you Moere ? ”
He sweetly asked her low.
“ Oh, no," she smiled; “ but now I’m sure
I’d like to see Hugo."
12
June 11, 1881
THE BULLETIN.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. W. J- Clarke, of Victoria, intends to start
for England in September.
Bradlangh’s liability under the statute on which
judgment has (gone against him, is nearly £200,000.
Mr. Gladstone is not called “ The People’s
William” now. His new nickname is “ Coercion Bill.”
Mr. Byland, manager of the Queensland
Rational Bank, has died at Brisbane, after a long ill-
ness.
Captain Garrard’s funeral at Christchurch,
V Z., was of a private character, only the relatives and
a few others attending.
Queen Victoria, they say, is a great advocate of
~a rl y marriage. That’s why she was so anxious about
the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.
John Dicks, the London publisher, who issued
'hilling editions of Shakespeare and Byron, has left
nearly £50,000. “Take care of the shillings,” &c.
Mr. Langtry has turned up in Chicago, and was
duly interviewed by# an enterprising journalist, who
alliteratively heads his article “ The Lily's Lord.”
Colonel Robert Ingersoll, who contemplates a
lecturing tour in Australia, gave two lectures in Booth’s
Theatre, New York, on April 24th, and netted £520.
North, the Wellington barber, who levanted
•with £4OOO deposited in his hands by the ticket-holders
in his sweep, is now in San Francisco. He was down
with the small-pox at Honolulu.
v jr Arthur Gordon held a levee in Wellington,
N.Z., on Queen’s Birthday, but it was poorly attended.
Is this due to the insociableness of Sir Arthur’s Court, or
to the disloyalty of the Wellington people ?
London has been poking fun at. and even
severely scandalising, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts ever
since her marriage. Even so shocking a story has been
printed as that she is the mother of Henry Irving, the
actor. The published details are atrocious.
Mr. H. Byron Moore has been offered the
secretaryship of the Victoria Bacing Club at a salary of
£7OO a year. However, it is a condition that he shall
not engage in any other business. Mr. Moore, it will
be remembered, was formerly one of the chief officers
of the Victorian Lands Department, and like a good
many more valuable men, was “ Black Wednes-
day'd.”
The champion cigarette smokers
of the age, says a London paper, are the
Empress .of Austria and Mr. Henry
Lahouchere.
Miss Braddon has, it is reported,
some idea of occupying herself with
writing plays.
Kendall, the English actor, and
husband of Madge Robertson, has a
brother in a Government office in Bris-
bane.
A nephew of General Sir Fred.
Roberts, of Afghan renown, teaches
school in a country place about forty
miles from Sydney.
Two former students at the School
of Arts Laboratory. Messrs. E. Du
Moulin and F. Pockley, have gained
honors in chemistry at Edinburgh Uni-
versity.
Lord Beaconsfield’s “Memoirs,”
there is authority for stating, will not
appear until ten years after his death,
and will be edited by his friend Lord
Rowton.
Edmund Yates announces that he
has severed his connection with the
newly-established (and, be it added,
inanely named) London evening paper,
Thb Cuckoo.
Brush had hard work to borrow
five dollars when he was working at his
electric light. Now his income is £lOOO
per day. This should encourage every
man who has hard work to borrow
money.
At Cooktown the other day, while
all around him ware sweltering in what
the Cooktown Courier calls “ the
hereditary broad cloth black,” Sir
Arthur Kennedy sat cool and comfort-
able in white.
A Canadian critic says of Carlyle,
that his “ Titanic vocabulary filled very
weak men with false notions of their
own strength, set them wielding a
Thor’s hammer of thundering talk, and
generated the very humbug which he
thought it his mission to pnt down.”
Surely they can’t have heard of our
David!
More shooting in San Francisco.
On April 22, John A. Chandler, business
manager of the Spirit of the Times,
shot and killed one Thomas W. Cunning-
ham. The men were brothers-in-law,
and the former, it is said, had made
trouble between Chandler and his wife,
instigating the latter to commence suit a
for a divorce.
Mr. W. S. Gilbert and Mr. Bur-
nand (editor of London Punch) are not
very good friends. A little while since,
at a dinner table, notwithstanding their
having been placed as far as possible
apart, on Mr. Gilbert making some
remark which created a laugh, Mr.
Burnand looked up and said: “ What
was that, Gilbert ? One of those good
things, I suppose, which you send to
Punch, but which never appear." Re-
plied Gilbert: “ Well, I don’t know who
sends the ‘good things,’ but there is
one thing certain —they don’t appear.
Mark Twain has informed an interviewer at
Cincinnati that he made £BOOO ont of his last book, “ A
Tramp Abroad,” and £28,000 out of his previous works,
in addition to about £15,000 by lectures and plays.
At a dinner party given by the late T. A.
Stewart (the New York soft goods prince), Mark Twain
was telling a funny story in his usual languid, drawling
style, when the host, getting impatient, tapped on the
table as a warning to the speaker to quicken his
delivery. “ Cash 1” cried. Mark as quick as lightning,
that rapping being the recognised call for the cash-boy
in Stewart’s store. Thus was the laughing turned
against the millionaire.
Poor Cecil Balfour, who, it will be remembered,
owned the yacht Bed Gaunlet, and was killed up-country
in April by a fail from his horse, came of one of the
oldest and most respected families in Scotland. He
was the second son of the late Mr. Balfour of Whitting-
hame, and a nephew of the Marquis of Salisbury and
Mr Beresford Hope, M.P. His elder brother, Mr. A.
J. Balfour, M.P. for Hertford, is a rising politician, and
a most accomplished scholar in mental philosophy.
The persona who moved in the matter of getting
Mr. Bradlaugh to raise the question of the Maori
prisoners in the House of Commons were Mr. Frederick
Simeon, of Wellington, whose wife (a half-caste) claims
land on the Waimate Plains; Mr. E. C. Thomson, lately
interpreter to Colonel Roberts, whose wife (a full-
blooded Maori, and relative of Titokowaru)_ has also
large land claims; and Mr. K. A. A. Sherwin, a jour-
nalist, lately connected with the Wairabapa Standard.
Mr. W. H. Bond, “ seeing a paragraph in The
Bulletin to the effect that he had been horsewhipped,
thinks right to inform us that there is not one word of
truth in the statement. The true version of the affair
is that he had a fight with a person, and in the fracas
he (that’s to say Mr. Bond) received a black eye.” He
wishes us to correct the mis-statement, as he is well-
known in Sydney. We are glad to comply with Mr.
Bond’s request, and to add that beefsteak and arnica
are about the best things.
The death of the Bight Hon. Sir W. P. Adam,
late Governor of Madras, merits more than the mere
record of the fact which the dailies have given it. For
years the deceased gentleman acted as chief “ whip" of
the Liberal party, and at the last general elections his
tact and faculty of organisation contributed in a great
measure to the extraordinary success achieved by
I Gladstone and his followers. Onlyafew months ago he
was appointed to the Governorship of Madras, and now
his untimely death has nipped in the bud the splendid
Indian career anticipated for him by his many friends
and admirers.
Matthew Arnold, in his “ Mixed Essays,” says
that the traveller in Australia, visiting one settler’s hiit
after another, finds again and again that the settler’s
third book, after the Bible and Shakespeare, is some
work by Macaulay. Arnold adds that nothing can be
more natural. The Bible and Shakespeare, he points
out, may be said to be imposed upon an Englishman as
objects of bia admiration, but as soon as the common
Englishman desiring culture begins to choose for
himself he chooses Macaulay. What a bright halo of
romance does the apostle of “ sweetness and light ”
throw around the lives of our bushm en!
“This,” says an esteemed correspondent, who
writes us from San Francisco, “ is how Mr. Richard
Anthony Proctor and Mrs. Crowley came to be married.
It is well known that Mr. Proctor set out ou his travels
with the object of benefiting the health of his lamented
wife. The hope, however, proved futile. Mrs. Crowley
and her invalid husband were fellow-passengers with
the Proctors, and it strangely happened that Mrs.
Proctor and Mr, Crowley died on the same day, and
almost within the same hour. These simultaneous
sorrows again aroused the tender passion in the souls
of those who had for months watched the passing away
of their early loves. Gradually there sprang up a strong
attachment, which eventuated in marriage.” What an
interesting paper The Bulletin would be if it had only
ten more correspondents like the mammoth circus man
who sent us this I
When the mail left, it was understood in London
that the editor of Her Freiheit, Herr Most, then
I arraigned for, and since convicted of, libelling the late
Czar, intended to plead “ justification,” and ask for per-
mission to call witnesses with a view of proving the
truth of the charges against the Czar’s public and
private life made by the Socialist press. He further
intended to try and get in testimony as to the devilish
tale of wholesale executions, banishments to Siberia,
condemnations to the deadly lead mines, arrests with-
out trial, cruel floggings, and all the other horrible
refinements of autocratic barbarity that have made
Bussia worse than a living hell for every man who has
more than the spirit of a slave and a brute in his breast.
Says a London correspondent of a provincial paper :
“If the plea of justification is allowed, I fancy the
Russian and German Governments would give a good
deal to quash the prosecution rather than see the inter-
minable pile of miserable men and women coming one
after another into an English witness-box to reveal the
reverse of the picture of “ holy Russia” to a British
jury and a British audience. If the plea of justifica-
tion is refused, what will the world think of a trial on
which the whole truth will not be allowed to be revealed ?
It is not likely that Herr Most will be without adequate
funds to provide for a just defence. Plenty of men who
love neither Socialism nor Nihilism will be disposed to
help to make foreign tyrants for the future less anxious
to put pressure upon a weak-kneed Cabinet in order to
stifle at once the voice of discontent and the liberty of
the English press."
Mr. H. J. Jones, manager of theA.J.S. Bank,
Brisbane, has died suddenly. That makes two Brisbane
bank managers in one week. Those overdrafts are ter-
rible on the lungs.
Mr. Dudgeon, Sub-collector of Customs and
Harbour-master at Mackay, has been suspended. He
failed to substantiate some statements he made to
Ministers visiting the place. Mr. Dudgeon is one of the
earliest Queensland C.S. men.
The first series of Professor Pepper’s popular
science lectures at Adelaide resulted in a loss of £4O.
We can remember the time when every boy in England
looked upon the Professor, at the London Polytechnic,
as the greatest genius of any age. But then he was
associated with comic songsters and the fall of Sebas-
topol.
Lord Derby, the hope of English Liberals,
delivered an instructive address at Oldham, the other
day, on the progress of mechanical arts. Affirming that
it was England’s people who had been the true source
of England’s wealth, he said that one of the most im-
portant factors of our greatness in a material sense was
our singular mechanical aptitude, in which our only
rivals were our American cousins, and in which we
undoubtedly excelled races superficially more gifted
than ourselves. He pointed out, however, that although
at present we stood at the head of the world in
mechanical arts, both science and capital were cosmo-
politan—the one point in our favour being that foreign
nations, if able to copy our machinery, conld not copy
onr superiority in men. Our chief necessity, he
declared, was the establishment of technical schools for
instructing the rising generation, who would have to
continue the battle for pre-eminence.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Friday last was a Jewish festival— Pentecost.
By a boat accident at Tonga, the Rev. J. E.
Moulton, Missionary, lost a daughter aged 14.
The North Dunedin Presbyterian congregation
have sent a call to the Rev. Mr. Inglis, of Ballarat.
In the revised New Testament, “ Hell ” ia not
so much as mentioned. The revisors have been gentle-
manly enough to soften it down to “Hades.” If this
sort of cooling process continues, the coming genera-
tion will not care a snap of the fingers about “ burning
fire.” The only way to “ fetch" them will be to
threaten them with an everlasting meat-freezing
chamber.
An action for slander against a J ewish minister
is coming off shortly at Melbourne. Damages are laid
at £2OOO.
The extreme Sabbatarians in Melbourne object
to the ships of the squadron being open to the public
on Sundays.
The designation of a Bishop in the ‘ ‘ pidgin
English of the China coast is “ Number one, topside.
Joss Pidgin man.”
No acknowledgement yet from Father ChiniquVs
converted priests. Pools and their money—ahem. Fat
we never suspected Chiniquy of being a fool.
Dr. Talmage is to be tried upon the charge that
he made false statements upon his former trim. The
place for holding the inquiry has not been fixed. The
church is passing through many sore trials just now.
On Monday night the Psychological Society of
N.S. W. held its monthly meeting. Mr. Garton delivered
an address on "The Literature of Spiritualism.’
There are 500 vols. extant, besides a mass of periodicals.
The Bishop of Grafton and Armidale in his ad-
dress to the Synod last week, spoke of the stipends of
his clergy as “ inadequate,” they being but £2OO
and a parsonage, while a good bricklayer can make £IBS.
The Protestant Standard wonders that there are any
clergymen at all, under the circumstances.
Large crowds were present at the evening ser-
vice at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, last Sunday. The Rev.
Dr. Ellis delivered a very eloquent sermon. The attend-
ance at the Cathedral is now greater than that of any
other Anglican church in Sydney, and the offertory has
increased in proportion. This latter fact would seem to
indicate that the rev. doctor’s audiences are chiefly
composed of the middle classes, and not the “ awistoc-
wacy,” who, ecclesiastically speaking, are too often dead-
heads.
The Rev. Mr. Ferguson, of Invercargill, startled
his congregation by taking for his text, in a sermon on
the Tararna disaster, “ Except ye repent, ye shall all
likewise perish." The local steamship proprietors
think of sueing Mr. Ferguson for damages. Nobody
has repented, but Invercargill men travel by land now.
The Protestant Standard says that were
there any sincerity in Archbishop Vaughan's opposi-
tion to public schools, Roman Catholic state school
teachers would not remain snugly at their posts, under
the very system which it is damnation for a child to use
and damnation to let him use. There are, the Stan-
dard points out five, Romanist teachers, oat of a total
staff of seven, at Penrith school.
The Fiji Royal Gazette has a list of
ministers registered for the celebration of marriages
Two are Church of England, one is a Jew, ten (all with
European namesj are Roman Catholics, and the
Wesleyan Methodists boast of no less than 58
“reverends.” Of these, eight seem to be Europeans;
but we somehow fancy that the Rev. Mark Tagicakiban,
with the Revs. Jonah Ulninaceva, Naphtali
Qaligarogaro, and 47 more, must be allowed to be
aboriginals.
Savs the Presbyterian -.—“ We notice that at
levies the Presbyterian clergymen have to take rank
behind the Popish clergy. Our excellent Governor is not
to blame for this. He merely follows precedent. But
where is Presbyterian self-respect that they could
tolerate this—to walk after the priests of Antichrist ?
—[Scarlet Woman, or the Seven Vials, would
have been a much better term. —Ed. B.] —We
yield to none in loyalty to our Queen, and in respect
to her representative; but till this abominable prece-
dence is abolished, there are Presbyterians with suffi-
cient self-respect to deny themselves the honour of the
ln this colony all such distinctions are invidious.
We will tolerate no one before another, Protestant or
Papist. All must be placed on the same level. If one
has precedence this year, another should have that
place next year, till each in his turn has been first and
last. But that Popish priests must ever walk before
Presbyterians, Methodists, Independents, and Baptists,
should not be tolerated for an hour.
A Eoman Catholic priest of Victoria, writing to
£SS!
Sydney for the Cathedral of the colonies. To this end,
every clergyman in the adjoining colonies is being
appealed tofwith the unvarying result of a^ood_sub-
scrintion in response. At the last monthly meeting at
St Marv’s £ll5O was handed in, of which sum £lOOO
had bTen got by the Archbishop from people of all
denominations. In reply to a note au old gentleman
named Gannon, of Cook’s Eiver, gave a cheque for ±lOO.
and said he was ready to repeat the subscription whe -
ever asked. Mr. John Mullins, of Macquane-street
gave on behalf of himself and brothers, a cheque for
£22o’for an archiepiscopal chair for the new Cathedra .
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
On May 13 the Governor of Fiji formally an-
nexed Rotumah.
The Potosi (a.) ia ready at Sandridge for her
second meat cargo.
A man, name unknown, has been drowned in
Deep Creek, Goulburn way.
There are 370 public schools in S. Australia,
with 837 teachers and 36,277 children.
The Postmaster-General declines to extend the
penny postage system to Parramatta.
A reef of ruby tin nearly 1500 ft. long has been
discovered within 50 miles of Grafton.
Nearly .£30,000 was realised in two days’ sheep
sales at Mudgee on the 2nd and 3rd inst.
Wilson, late collector at St. Kilda, Melbourne,
has been dismissed. Alleged defalcations.
John M'Guan, arrested at Inverell on suspicion
of murdering Thomas Smith, has been remanded.
New Zealand is now the only colony of the Aus-
tralasian group in which the disease known as scab m
sheep exists.
The ranges near Tumnt were
covered with snow last Sunday.
The spot on the sun is visible to
the naked eye. So is the comet.
Arrangements are nearly complete
for starting a new line of ferry steamers
from North Shore to Circular Quay.
Andreas Jansen, lost in the N.Z.
bush during 24 days, lived on roots and
berries. Wben found be bad fallen off
from 13st. to 7st. weight.
Application has been made to
lease the old Exhibition building in
Prince Alfred Park for the purpose of
turning it into salt-water baths.
The statement that the British
Government had resolved to abandon
the forts to the north of the Bolan
Pass, Afghanistan, is authoritatively
denied.
The jury in the case of Susan
Nixon, who died in the Benevolent
Asylum consequent upon a useless
operation, gave a verdict acquitting the
medical men of blame.
At a banquet at Cooktown, the
Premier of Queensland, just landed
from England, said he believed he would
be able in course of time to clear his
character as a man, and as a statesman,
from the imputations in respect to the
steel rails business.
A charge of assaulting the ship’s
carpenter, brought against the mate of
the wrecked Queen of the Nations, has
been heard by the Wollongong Bench.
Fined £2 and costs. Two charges
against the captain were dismissed, com-
plainants not appearing.
The Full Court has granted a rule
nisi for a new trial in the libel case
Moore Bros, versus Haynes and Archi-
bald, on the ground that parts of The
Bulletin foreign to the issue to be tried
were improperly admitted as evidence
by his Honor Judge Manning.
Messrs. Hilliard and Meader are
the successful tenderers for kerbing and
guttering some of the streets of Sydney.
Alderman J. D. Young asserted that the
firm really represents Evers and Ken-
nedy, the disqualified contractors for
the Town Hall foundations. But the
City Surveyor denies this.
A meeting was held on Tuesday
at the Protestant Hall, Melbourne, in
opposition to the Irish Land League.
The Dean of Melbourne was in the
chair, and admission was by ticket.
Resolutions sympathising with the land-
lords and others in Ireland were carried.
A meeting previously convened was
prevented by the Parnellites from pro-
ceeding with business.
The Irish Land Bill is the pre-
cursor of a complete revolution in the
English land laws. The law of primo-
geniture, as it is loosely called, which
secures land to the first-born son in
case of intestacy, is already doomed,
and the power of settling property
over two lives—which is really the
backbone of the custom of entail—can
hardly last many years longer.
An illicit still has been seized at Fortitude
Valley, Brisbane. Also one at Carlton, Melbourne.
Mr. Pitt, of Adelaide, sent a case of grapes to
India in March last. The fruit arrived in perfect order.
Area sneaks have been raking in overcoats, um-
brellas, Ac., from the front passages of Macquarie-street
houses.
The export of Queensland pearlshell developed
from £7O in 1869 to £58,521 in 1879. In 1878 it was
£64,627.
The repairs to the Bacchante’s rudder are nearly
complete. She sails from King George’s Sound on the
10th inst.
Mr. Gladstone states that England will net
£4,700,000 profit on Beaconsfleld’s purchase of Suez
Canal shares.
The Victoria Coffee Palace, Bonrke-street, Mel-
bourne, is a big success. About £BOOO is to be spent in
enlargement.
The New Zealand Government have decided to
liberate, immediately, the whole of the Maori prisoners.
They won’t be much benefited however, as Te Whiti
has those already liberated confined in a whare, and
won’t let them live with their wives.
The Day Dawn p.c.. Charters Towers, has paid
£37,000 in dividends in 16 months. No. 2, Queen claim
is said to be almost as good aproperty. The fortnightly
yields of the Bryan O’Lynn claim, since Peb. 1878, have
ranged in intermediate figures from 159 oz. 11 dwts, to
1243 oz. 7 dwts. No. 3 Queen, which consists of only
two men’s ground, has given since May, 1875, 4440 tons
for a return of 6687 oz. 2 dwts 13 grs. smelted gold, the
last crushing three weeks back, yielding 647 ozs. 16
dwt-V 12 grs. from 239 tons.
The Bbaidwood Despatch publishes an ex-
traordinary story to this effect: —Three gentlemen were
travelling from Bedfern to Qoulbum by the mail train.
In the same carriage were two other persons —one big,
bearded, and noseless; the other hardly so tall, but
equally unprepossessing. When the train had passed
Parramatta Junction, the big man fell asleep. Then his
companion, jumping up, declared that he had been
robbed by the other passengers of a purse containing
three half-sovereigns, and swore he’d have it out of
them. The big fellow awoke, pulled out a six-shooter
OH! THE ROGUE!
13
THE BULLETIN.
jane 11, 1881.


SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
s
INGEE MANUPACTUEING COMPANY
Have opened a Depot in 1
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DAELING STOEES
HARBOUR STREET.
SINGBE’S SEWING MACHINES
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
SINGEE’S SEWING- MACHINES
BEST TERMS TO WHOLESALE BOYERS.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES
Write for address of nearest Agent.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE FAMILIES
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES
Ten per cent, for cash.
8
INGER’S, BEST FOR X)RESSMARET?q
1 SINGER'S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequal
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly. ’
8
INGEE’S THE BEST FOE TAILOES
See the New No. 4 Machine.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST FOE BOOTMAKEES.
See the New No. 4 Vibrating-Presser Machine.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES
HAND OR TREADLE. ’
8
The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE—Light to Work, Light to Carry.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
8
INGEE’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
8
INGEE’S THE BEST and MOST DUEABLB.
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
ADDRESS: THE
8
INGEE MANUPACTUEING COMPANY,
No. 1 BARLING STORES, Harfeour-street, Sydney.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO..
746 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney,
have been appointed agents for these celebrated
machines.
Call and see them—Month’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.—TUENEE
and CO. only recommend the Singer.
REMEMBER, THERE IS WNLY ONE SIN-
GER MACHINE. See the name and Trad©
Mark on the arm.
SIN GEE’S MACHINES.—NO other NAME
applies to the Genuine Machines. TURNER &
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGEE’S MACHINES. — Beware of Germai
Cast iron imi rations. Only Genuin e Singer’
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES by arrange-
ments with the Singer Company.
SINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES, 10 per
cent, discount for cash, or on Time Payments in
SIDNEY— From TURNER and CO., 353
GEORGE STREET, opposite POST OFFICE.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.—NOT ONE
but 160 FIRST PRIZES.
GJ. WELLS, late STANFORD & CO.
• The old authorised Agency for SINGER
MACHINES.
8
INGER’S. The ONLY MACHINE of merit.
A real test of merit —2,500,000 now in use.
8
INGER’S MACHINE with new triple action,
with latest IMPROVEMENTS and accessories.
FINGER’S, from £5 cash, at G. J. WELLS,
IO 1 HUNTER STREET.
Gr.
J. WELLS for LIBERAL TERMS of
Payment. 2s 6d Weekly; 5s deposit.
w
HERE can you get the GENUINE SINGEE
MACHINE? WELLS, 1 Hunter-street.
THE OLD RELIABLE SINGER is the
CHEAPEST, the SIMPLEST, and most DUR-
ABLE ever constructed.
T
O AVOID DECEPTION buy only at the Old
Authorised Agency, WELLS, 1 Hunter-street
8
INGER’S NEW IMPROVED Triple Action
Balance Wheel. Latest Improved attachments.
8
INGER’S MACHINE. Immense discount to
cash purchasers. 10 per cent. 10s for cash.
SINGER’S MACHINES have stood the test
of all opponents and BASE IMITATIONS for the
past thirty years.
GJ. WELLS. The old original and only
» Genuine System of payments offered to meet
the terms and demands of the public at 2s 6d per week,
and 5s deposit.
WELLS for Price lists and all imformation
free. No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney. The OLD
SHOP for GENUINE ARTICLE.
WELL’S Established Agency will be open
Every Saturday evening to give all instruc-
tions free, and receive weekly payments.
«3- Note the ADDRESS—
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINE AGENCY
G. J. WELLS, (Late Stanford and Co.).
No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
LUXURIES WITHIN THE REACH OE ALL.
Whbn yon ask a friend to visit yon the first impression he receives when he steps npon yonr threshold
is one of comfort, abundance, and even luxury. But the remarkably small cost at which this
impression is produced is almost incredible. The first thing he does is to brush his feet upon a
FIBRE MAT for which you paid 2s. Passing on, the next thing he treads upon is a SINOLEUM at
3a. 3d. per square yard, or a FLOCECLOTH which only costs 2s. per square yard. He hangs
his HAT (a STIFF FELT it may be at 4s. lid., or a SILK HAT at Bs. fid.) on the hat-stand, and
putting his 7s. fid. SILK IJMBEELLA on one side, he makes his way across a SHEEPSKIN MAT
(price 4s. 3d.) into the Drawing Room. Here a rich BRUSSELS CARPET meets his gaze, purchased
like all the foregoing, at—''■£.
;A N TIHJO NYj|HO R D E R N & SU N S,Jj
5 PAL A C E E IYI P 0 R I UilW.B feife
» (ONLY).| * ffigM
he cost of this was 2s. Bd. per yard, and there is also a HEARTHRUG to match. The e coeterasof
B uoh a room are amply supplied from the same source. There are FIRE-SCREENS, FENDER-
STOOLS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, and CUSHIONS beautifully worked; and npon enquiry you find
that the CANYAS and WOOL came from
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
whose prices are below those of the Wholesale Houses.
As the morning is the time he arrives, the hostess (in a dress of GEOS GRAIN, HOMESPUN
or FRENCH CASHMERE, procured at the _I.—S Z
(PALACE EMPORIUM
and made of the very newest shade of colour) leads him into the Library. Here the CARPET is of
TAPESTRY, at Is. lid per yard, and his eyes alight upon the rich looking REP CURTAINS, which
cost about half what they would anywhere else, surmounted by a beautiful pair of CORNICE POLES
costing only ss. 9d. each, with BRACKETS to match at a small extra cost. The walls are hung with
tastefully executed OLEOGRAPHS and ENGRAVINGS, gladdening the eye; and when he learns
the trifling expenditure at which these additions are made he marvels how it can be done. Leaving
this apartment, he walks across a CHINA MATTING 36 inches wide, at 13d. per yard, into the
Dining Room, where the dazzling magnificence, combined with the chaste designs of the ladies’
attire (which latter has now ramified into a thousand novelties—relics of the styles of various historic
times) well nigh eclipse the more sombre requisites of every day life, such as TABLE NAPKINS
at 4s. per dozen; TABLE DAMASK for extension at Is. 4d. per yard, or CLOTHS to fit any
ordinary sized table, at prices varying from ss. fid. to 225. fid. While in the room he notices the
Antimacassars, all hand made, at from Is. each ; and the Curtains some of which cost only 3s. 3d.
per pair, but the Applique are 15s. On retiring to rest he finds that -
AJN THO N Y HORDE SQNS.^
supplied the SHEETS, the BLANKETS, the QUILT (one of M'Lintock’s best EIDER DOWN or
SILK DOWN —delightfully soft, light, and warm), the Crockery upon the wash-stand, and even the
Fancy Soap, of which they have a pleasing variety. In fact, it is hard to say what they did not
supply. The most exorbitant prices are sometimes paid for BLANKETS, and it is simply because
the public are mislead as to their real market value. Now, at this well-known drapery establishment,
which, its proprietors are told, has only two rivals in the whole world, you can get a PAIR of
BLANKETS for 3s. lid.—a good warm pair. In a word, you can get anything you require, at a price
and of a quality that cannot fail to satisfy you, at JS* .
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS* ~
PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET (ONLY),
who have NO CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER HOUSE OF THE NAME.
PRIZE “IVANHOE” WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOE
HERMITAGE.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&c., &c.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON,
" G. H. STEPHEN & CO., "
-< Wine Growers and Merchants, >
13 Bridge Street.
FRUITY WINES
5/6
PER GALLON.
JgJNJOT LIFE.
Bat few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest t * enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most hitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsiaand Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PARALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA, and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask you
in good faith that you try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give yon astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s 6d.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
rjl HOM A S WEBB & SONS,
BOND-STREET,
Beg to inform their customers that they have JUST
OPENED a LARGE CONSIGNMENT of
BEEAKFAST,
DINNER, and
Also,
TEA SETS.
FANCY CHINA
AND
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invited.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY.
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHOETEST
NOTICE.
G. F MUEPHT,
Eegent House, 869 George-street South.
SHOP FEONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BEITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. F. MUEPHT,
Eegent House, 869 George-street South.
BEITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAEEHOUSE.
6. F. MUEPHT,
Eegent House, 869 George-street South.
jp APEEHANGIN6S WAEEHOUSE.
G. F. MUEPHT,
Eegent House, 869 George-street South.
WHITE LEAD, OILS, COLOUES, CEMENT
&c., Ac.
G. F. MUEPHT.
Eegent House, 839 George-street South.
P
LATE GLASS. PLATE GLA
GEOEGE F MUEPHT,
Eegent House, 869 George-street South.
SS.
jgYDNEY AND COUNTY BANK (LIMITED).
Incorporated under “ Companies’ Act ” of 1874.
Authorised Capital. £500,000.
DIEECTOES:
Montague Levey, Esq., Chairman
W. A. Broadribb, Esq., M.P.
Alexander Bowman, Esq., M.P.
Eobert Hudson, Esq.
J. Telverton, Esq., J.P.
Frederick Cook, Esq., Chief Manager.
Head Office : George-street North, Sydney.
Frederick Cook, Chief Manager.
John Alexander Larnach, Accountant.
SOLICITOES :
Messrs. Maearthy, Eobertson and Fisher. *
This Bank will open for general Banking business on
or about Ist July next, by which time it is expected
the alterations to its premises now in active progress
will be completed.
Sydney, May 27, 1881.
and threatened violence. The passengers tried to com-
municate with the guard, but failed. When they got to
Goulburn, the sergeant of police called upon the man
who said ha had been robbed to make a charge against
the man he suspected. This the fellow declined to do,
saying that business compelled him to go on. The can-
tankerous pair turned out to be Mr. Howard and his
assistant, on their way to Albury to hang Wilkinson.
The Despatch says that “ if such loathsome wretches
must be carried by train from Sydney to the place
where they are about to carry out their degrading busi-
ness, they should certainly not be allowed to get into
carriages in which there are respectable persons. Per-
haps the safest way to carry them would be to leg-iron
and handcuff them, and then lock them up in a horse-
box by themselves.”
Second tram line to be laid in Oxford-street,
Sydney.
Alderman Hordern has presented an ambulance,
for sufferers from accident, to the Sydney Infirmary.
Sydney merchants urge the Government to
extend the railway to the Circular Quay via Darling
Harbour frontages.
The S. M. Herald says it’s nice weather
What tremendous resources for the collection of news
that paper has, to be sure 1
The Government surveyor speaks very favour-
ably of the new route for a railway from Grafton to
Glen Innes. And just before Ministers* visit, too. Now
then, clumsy!
Mr. Wallace, who has just overlanded with
cattle from Queensland to the Roper (N.T.), says there
is a great tract of downs country S. of the Macarkhur,
the best in the Territory, likely to be occupied directly.
There is yet a chance of the murderer of Mr.
and Mrs. Jarvis being captured. According to the
Gladstone Observer, a breadfruit bearing the marks
of human teeth, and an empty cartridge case have been
picked up on the local beach. Several shots have also
been heard near Rodd's Bay, and it is believed that the
kanaka is somewhere around.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
At Milton, on Queen’s Birthday, about 40
aboriginals held a corruboree, by which about £4 was
realised. The money was laid out on their behalf in
clothing. At the conclusion of the affair they sang
•* God save the Queen," and gave three cheers The
Palmer Chronicle comments very severely on Mr.
Warden Sellbeim's decision in the Day Dawn mining
case A local doctor thinks that the supposed Chinese
leper at the Aramac is not a leper at all, but a syphili-
tic subject. The man asks for poison in order
that he may put an end to his sufferings
A little hoy of 11, named Toogood, was lost in the
Cattle Creek Ranges, Peak Vale Run (N.Q.), for three
days. The police went after him on the second day, but
the plucky youngster pulled the Aramac and Wethers-
field track, and got home. Mnch anxiety was felt for
Mm, as the dingoes are very bold and very large in that
quarter, having been known to attack men That well-
conducted paper, the Yass Courier, is now published
tri-weekly Four tons of stone from Limestone Creek,
May town. Palmer River, went 340 z. gold to the ton
A pearl, valued at £lOOO, has been picked up in Perth,
Western Australia The other night the Carcoar-
Blayney coach ran over a man, who was lying on the
road, breaking four ribs and one arm, and cutting
Ms head. The driver (so says the Carcoar Chronicle)
did not take the man up, but merely placed him on the
side of the road, and proceeded on his journey. How-
ever, the injured man was subsequently taken to the
hospital At Wellington District Court, John Fitz-
simmons sued John Lahy, of Lahy’s Creek, for assault.
Litigants are brothers-in-law, and plaintiff, interfering
while Lahy was fighting, was so maltreated that he was
unable to work for a couple of months. £25 damages
were awarded John Green, a publican at Hill End,
fell from his dray and was killed Buyers of station
property stocked and nnstocked, are numerous at
Bonrke. Some large unstocked tracts have changed
hands Wigg, a wine merchant in Adelaide, has been
fined £2O for having labels not legibly printed with the
words “ Bottled in South Australia.” The Victorian
Minister for Mines proposes to spend £l5 000 to £2O 000
in working diamond drills in promising localities
Three antimony lodes have recently been opened in the
Walsh district, Queensland Good progress is being
made with the lighhtouse at Montague Island. It will
probably be completed in two months The Queens-
land black trackers employed to bunt the Kelly gang
cost the Victorians £2039 Complaints are current
respecting the condition of the tram terminus at
Waverley. Choice of wading through mud or being
smashed by the motor At the ploughing match,
held at St. George on 25th May, Robert Dean took first
prize A boy named Jackson, at Newcastle, had the
points of four toes cut off by a train. Another boy,
Rotherham, had his thigh laid opon to the bone by a
trolly at Adamson. The gash was filled with axle-grease
and dirt The three larrikins who were recently fined
£lO each at St. Kilda, Vic., for maltreating a China-
man, have been at it again. One of them has been sen-
tenced to three fines of £lO each and six months for a
complicated lark. The others have got lighter penal-
ties Flour is selling at lOd per lb. at Mount Browne.
There is enough to last till teams arrive.
LATE SPORTING.
There is to be a four-oar race in gigs for public
school crews at the next Association regatta.
Mr. P. B. Walker has promised a prize for the
regatta on the Parramatta Eiver, to be held in October.
Royaton College athletic sports come off at the
Association ground on Juno 15th, commencing at 1.30.
The date of the annual regatta of the N S.W.
Rowing Association is fixed for the second Saturday in
October.
At the settling of the Ipswich races, Mr. Bell
took £444, Mr. Ricard £49, Mr. G. Smith £25, and Mr.
Q. McLean £2O.
Mr. W. G. Anslow, of the S.R. Club, has been
elected a member of the Rowing Association committee,
in the place of Mr. Strange.
Commodore Hyam’s trophy for 22ft boats was
won by the “ Buttercup,”. not by the “ Rosetta,” as
reported by “ Starfish” in last Saturday’s Mail.
The committee of the Rowing Association
reserve to themselves the right to alter the course for
the intercolonial boat races to the Nepean, should the
present harbour regulations remain in force.
Already the formation of crews for the eight-oar
event at the Association regatta is in contemplation.
This time, the event will be warmly contested by repre-
sentative crews from both our leading clubs.
The nominations for the various great racing
events closed on Monday, the 6th instant. There were
114 entries for the Melbourne Cup, 46 for the Champion
Race, 73 for the Hawkesbury Guineas, 79 for the
Hawkesbury Grand Handicap, 93 for the Caulfield Cup,
82 for the Metropolitan Stakes, and 72 for the December
Stakes.
There is a big commotion in N.Z. over Mata’s
victories. New Zealanders intend having another try
for the Melbourne Cup—the Dunedin Cup winner, Sir
Modred, having been nominated, also the colt Somnus.
Both horses will probably pay this side a visit if they
get in at a fair weight. They are thought to be badly
treated in the C. J.C. Handicap, run about the same
time as the Melbourne Cup.
It appears now that Corbett, the Sydney repre-
sentative, has all through the recent negotiations been
desirous of meeting Mclndoe, the Victorian man, in a
swimming contest. The Easter encampment interfered
with the first arrangement, and Corbett named the 7th
May, which date, however, was neither agreed nor
objected to by Mclndoe. Corbett now intimates tbtyfc
he will deposit £3O to bind a match for the spring. V
A well-contested race for .£5 a-side took place
at Moore Park early on Friday, 3rd inst., between H.
Parish and C. White, After a good start. Parish led
for 70 yards, when White ran up with a great rush, and
collared his opponent. A splendid race ensued till the
finish, when Parish eventually won by little more than
a foot. White was considerably distressed. Just after
the race another match was made, between Parish and
J. Harpur, for £lO a-side, to be run on 10th June at
Moore Park A return race between McLaughlin and
White is likely to come off this week.
14
June 11, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


T
HEA T R E
MISS BLANCHE STA
has the pleasure to announce that i
make arrangements for a
FAREWELL BENI
and last appearance in public, pric
for America,
THURSDAY, JUNE
UNDER THE PATEONAQE OF I
THE GOVERNOR and LADY L
The performance will conn
PYGMALION AND GA
and conclude wit
WOODCOCK’S LITTLI
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, G
seats can be secured for the dress cir
obtained.
INSTRUCTION and AMI
merism and Phrenology.—TU
Temperance Hall, Professor Han
DYNASTIES, and conclude with
tainment of the most startling de
made to believe themselves anytl
wishes —laugh, sing, swim on terra fit
and made perfectly rigid by mere ef
Doors open at 7.30, commence a
and Is.
EW THEATRE ROYA
Proprietors, Messrs. THYNNI
Open to treat with STABS a
acknowledged ability in every line o
accommodation—l4oo.
Professional Add
MISS MYRA
ADDEESS ;
Until end April—Theatre Eoyal,
April nntil end October—Theatre
Mr. m. sal
ADDEESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-str
R. AND MRS. W. 1
(Zulu Wae).
ON TOUE
Imperial Hotel, Adelaide, t:
Western Australia to
M
LTHOUGH PITT STREE
HORDERN’S is
Although pitt stre*
HORDERN’S is
Although pitt steei
HORDERN’S is
A LTHOUGH PITT STREE
HORDERN’S is
CASH CLEAR A]
BOOKS, FANCY GOODS, and
REBUILDING OF PE
16 and 18 HUNTER
The present buildings being not 1
rapidly increasing business,
Messes. Tuenee and Hi
have made arrangements to re
additions) and to save expense of re
offer the Whole of their Fine Stock
ery, and Fancy Goods to the Publii
OVER COST PRICE, and in si
COST.
TURNER and HE
16 AND 18 HUNTEE i
Although pitt stree
HORDERN’S is
Cr
REAT JEWELL
WATCHES, CLOCKS, AND
At LESS than COST
Owing to intended Extensivi
A. J. HUFI
636 Ge
HOUSES furnished at the C
Arcade, on Time Payments.
street.
WE repectfully invite the j
Show Booms, Central Fui
31, and 33 Park-street.
WE Furnish Houses fron
Central Furnishing Arcad
Park-street. I
CENTRAL FURNISHING
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, and
This establishment is now open,
requisite for household furnishing
large and extensive department sol
glassware. 1
H
LEVY and Co. beg to i
• public that thev have now c
FURNITURE BSTABLI
Nos. 29. 31, a
Although pitt stree
HORDERN’S is:
Atlas foundry and
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydm
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron a
Coppersmiths and Millwrights. —l
prepared to undertake contracts for
Marine and Stationary Engines, I
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Shee
Sugar Mills, and all other descrip
with latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with i
price given for old metal.
•p R. LA]
Wholesale and Re
PRODUCE MER(
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORJB
48 Qeorge-street West (late Pai
And
Darlingbnrst Road, near W
Pure Cape Barley, Feed an<
P. R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine ani
778 and 780 GEORGE STR]
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of W:
N.B.—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay
ONDON
MORTGAGE,
DISCOUNT BA!
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOU!
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED U
SPECIAL NOTH
The Directors place before those d
advantages upon easy terms—UN
advantages. Their method of tran
highly commended, CONCESSIO
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE
BILLS OP SALE on furniture,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bondet
ties. Personal effects, &c.,
AND UPON ANY REASONAB
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acce
COUNTED daily.
“Repayments by WEEKLY - ,
QUARTERLY instalments; or as
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and intervie'
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address, TH
London Loan and Discount Bi
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
Although pitt strei
HORDERN’S is
Department of Mil
Sydney,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PO
LEASES
NOTICE is hereby given that
execute and take delivs
mentioned Gold-mining Leases
fpnm this date, thev will declare
JOHNSTON
SEWING MAOHIN
HAYMARKET
gINGER’S SEWING
JOHNSTON’S D
lIAYMARKE
gINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s (
JOHNS TO!
IJIHE
LIGHT RUNNING
2s 6d per week, a 1
JOHNSTON’S, HATMJ
gINGER’S SEWING
2s 6d per week, ai
JOHNSTON'S Dl
HAYMARKET
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, witl
tacking (or basting), without the ui
without any pulling or pushing of 1
very fine double seams or fells; will
braid, make their own braid, bind, <
sew on ribbons and trimmings, 1
width, make frills, quilt, hem, an
embroider curtains or antimacassar
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at onr offices
trades can be supplied. They are si
in running, strong, handsome, ar
machine may be had on trial, ENT
CHAEGE. Instruction at YOU
free. Every WEETHEIM Machit
KEPT IN BEPAIE and workii
TEARS from the date of purchase
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OF CHARQ
samples by post. Country age;
liberal terms. BEALE and C(
street, near Market-street, and (
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastl
Bathurst. No matter in what par
live, we will supply you witl
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM
INTEREST.
The a u s t
“HOME” SHUT'
AMERICAN LOCKS':
SEWING MAC
OSS,
&
&
TO effectually stop the decepl
practised, every Machine nc
is specially made for that clime, an
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the wor
must look carefully to this, and if !
upon them under false pretences
design, we will not be responsibli
work.
20,000 NOW IN USE IN 1
No. I.—Hand Machine, SA.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use o
€r
AIE T Y
T H
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bi
•General Manager ...Mr. L. M. Bayle
MONTAGUE-TUENER OPEI
Director 1
TO-MORROW (FRIDAY) EVEN
Under the distinguished patronag<
Lord Augustus Loftns, K C.B.
Suite.
Grand
COMPLIMENTARY B
to
MISS ANNIS MONT
tendered to her most kini
MANAGEMENT and ENTIB
•On which occasion a PEESENTAT
Admirers and Friends will be i
tery. Esq, M.P.
The Performance will consist of the
Beautiful Open
THE BOHEMIAN (
The presentation will thei
After which the Third, Fourth,
Gounod’s Masterpi
•• FAUST,”
Commencing with the Gai
BOHEMIAN an
Cast of Character
ARLINE ...
Gipsy Queen...
Buda
Count Amheim
Florestein ...
Devilshoof ...
Officer... ...
THADDEUB..
Miss ANN
Mif
Mi
Mr.
Mr
Mr. CHA
Austrian Soldiers, Gips
Presentation by T. M. Slattery, Ei
by several other prominent
To conclude witl
THIRD, FOURTH, and FIFTH
Cast of Character
FAUST ...
Mephistopheles
Valentine...
Wagner ...
Siebel
Martha
MAEQUERITE
...Mr. CHA
'-Mr.
!" -Mi
Mis
Miss ANN
Students, Soldiers, Peas
...Mr
... J
.Messrs. W
Signc
Conductor-
Stage Manager
Pianiste ...
Scenic Artist
Mechanist—
Properties...
Costumier-
All the Ladies and Gentlemen
kindly volunteered their sevices.
Special Box Plan open at Messrs
Co.’s, where immediate application
is fast filling up.
G
AIE T Y
T E
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless
General business Manager
GRAND OPENING N
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Typo.”: Always glad to hear from you
•‘One who" Ac.: We don't exactly see the “hang" of
your remarks Secretary Glenhead F.C.: Sorry we
have not apace to publish list of club engagements.
Were we to publish yours—and we’d like to do so —we’d
■probably receive a column of such matter next week
L. M.": Shall be glad to hear from you The multi-
tude of letters which we have received, some addressed
to Tub Bulletin, and others to Mr. Traill personally,
expressing sympathy in respect to the article on Clon-
tarf, and the verdict recently given, has been so great as
to preclude the possibility of separate replies. Our friends
will therefore please accept this notice that we are not
ungrateful for their kind encouragement and sympathy.
....“ W.H.8.”; We have our eye on those kerbstone
heroes “D. Murray ": Too long-winded. Compress,
and we’ll give you a show .“ J R.": Thanks for infor-
mation “ Wanderer": One of the best stories we have
«ver heard “ W.M." : Just a little too personal
“Ouida": Thanks “Not a Subscriber We fail to
see the joke “R.R."; We gladly avail ourselves of
your welcome communication “L.A.": Wearesorry
that space does not admit of our giving more than
a passing notice “A.M.”: The paper containing
marked article, did not, we are sorry to say, reach us.
“ A.E.L You should give names and tell us all
about it. Then we’ll be glad to make the announce-
ment “Bandicoot": Hardly up to the mark
“R.T.M.” : Your joke is good, but perhaps a little too
broad. Shakespeare would have liked it; Paris Figaro
would revel in it. But in Sydney they have abolished
the proverb Honi soit qui mal y pense “Obadiah”:
Just a little too rough “ J.T.F.": Thanks “ Crab-
tree”: Received “Canis": Rather late “Cover-
point”: Next week “ D.T.” : Will look the matter
up “Sympathiser": Sorry the information's use-
less; heights or distances not given “ C.V.": Will
read again “ Scamp": Will see about it next time.
.. ..“F.H.R.": Received “J.D.”: Thanks; you are
“X” in future “Atlas": Just the sort of thing we
want.
15
June 11, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Miscellan
Jg EISCOE, DETS
397 Geobqb J
76, 78, 145, 147 Yc
33 Pitt St
[RONMON GEES, IRONi
IMPOETI
Invite attention to their ext
which besides being 1 the largesl
varied; and comprises all the 1
Engines Engineers’ Materi
Agricultural Implements,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material,
Axles, Buggy.bodies. La
Founders’ Material, Pig Ir
Builders’ Ironmongery, Cb
Brass Foundry, Locks,
Squatters’ Eequisites, Wire
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Hope, Boiled
And
GENERAL IRON
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E B B L E
416 GEOEGE S
MACH
H. P. GREGOR'S
No. II, PITT-S’
Importers of all Dej
M A C H I
Have for St
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Speci
Machinery—Sydney Exhibi
Blake’s Patent Special Steam P
Eubher and Leather Belting, Ei
tucks packing round and sq
Insertion and pure gum packinj
Emery Wheels and Machines—.
Book Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and Q. Cutters, Machinery <
quality guaranteed, Ac., A<
Send for Circulars
118
KING STREET i
.
r
389 C
OUE Sto
loadi]
have
OUE Hi
from
POW
IF reqcu
whic
ticuL
or
are the h
awar
AS show
chin*
BOU
com:
MAh
WE hav«
very
Wkl'PM
Miscellane
QLIFFORD, LOA
TEA IMP OR
EASTERN AND <
MERCHA1S
Receive regular consignm
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qua
Do. Indian Prize 5
CHTJTN1ES—Indian ]
PRESERVES—Indian
COFFEE—Plantation
Do.
Do.
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA— Flake and
SAGO
PEPPER—White and ]
OFFIC S 79 YOE]
AND AT
EDWARD STREET,
John d
IMPORTER i
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brass
Gasfittings, Globes, Electri
Butchers’ Brine
Iron, Brass, Coppe
and Lead Pipe,
119 LIVERPOOL STREP
235
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL . aC
OR ™
ALLWOOL
TWEED
CANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAY'S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PU MP S.
IBBOTSON'S steel,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
A LAEGE VAEIETY IN STOCK.
8HEEPWASH. MINING, SLUICING AND LBEIGATI
Engines and Boilers of all i
Jack Crabs, Cbanks, Bbllows, I
IN STOCK.
EYES
perfect
PUR]
Mon-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest I
Tf,age. The finest Sheep-wash i
ifixtraots from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials —
FTomlh Dansey ; —-Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for hoi
for i}v Cl f^ e8 f°T Soc \ e }y-—-From Rev. Geo. Woolnough,
Sfriflir 1 ? ould not d esire anything more effec
Purifier. L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, I
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. New
wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearii
From Mr H. Meads, Sydney My child had sore eyes for
one week.——From C.A. Laurence. Esq.. (Stephen. Laureuc
treying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fr
b irunfier is unrivalled.
_ . _SddJn Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H SOUL Pii
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street 1
Jeyes Sanitary Com ound Company (Limited), London. Agen
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, o]
PRACTICAL HAIR Cl
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL HAIR- WORKER, STAGE
Baths for Ladies and Gentlemen. Waste combings or cuttings
Note the address— Oxfobd-stbeet, op
BUV
O
u
oc
PRIZE
cc
i
Gooch and eobeets,
(From London an late with J. Campbell,)
HAIRDRESSERS AND WIGMAKERS,
Importers and Manufacturers of Human Hair.
21 HUNTER STREET.
BETWEEN GEORGE AND PITT STREETS,
SYDNEY.
A CAED.
STANICH, the eminent OCULIST and
AUBIST, is now on a professional visit to
Queensland. For further Particulars ride
Queensland papers.
16
June‘11, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.
