

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s.—No. 64.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, APRIL 16, 1881.
Price —3d.
§nlletiii.
SATURDAY, APRIL 16, 1881.
Ministers and Magistrates.
This is the age of phrases. Ugly facts are gilded
over with fair-seeming surfaces of handsome
mottos. _ On every hand, this generation is
abandoning principles and hugging shadows.
People are subsisting on Barmecidal viands, and
smacking their lips over the imaginary banquets.
They suffer from a sort of social and political
mesmerism. Astute mediums inform them that
they are free, and forthwith they throw up their
caps, and hurrah for liberty, unconscious of the
fetters which are riveted on their limbs. They
are told that they enjoy just and equal
laws, and straightway praise the clear-
ness of Justice’s bandaged eyes, and laud
the equilibrium of her uneven scales. They
are invited to admire the enduring and beau-
tiful texture of the British constitution, and they
raise hymns in praise while it is being tom in
fragments before their very eyes. They are told
that they are patriotic and single minded, and clap
each other admiringly on the back while they con-
cert devices for swindling the State. They listen
to their mediums’ declarations that they are moral
and domestic above all other people, and they re-
turn thanks to Heaven that they are not as other
men are, while in the same breath and with one
accord they denounce anyone who dares to lift the
curtain which veils their private lives. Among
the holiest traditional gods of Britons none are
held in greater declared esteem than Magna
Charta, the Habeas Corpus Act, and
the rights of minorities. Yet nothing can
exceed the complacency with which the majority
of Britons employ the term Chartist as a term of
reproach; nothing could exceed the unanimity
with which the well-to-do classes ranged them-
selves against the “ misguided men” who, about
a quarter of a century ago, were infatuated
enough to demand that the Magna Charta should
be honestlly acted up to in its entirety. The
readiness, also, with which the Commons of
England ordained that the Habeas Corpus Act
should be abrogated the moment when its provi-
sions were felt to restrain the will of a dominant
majority the very purpose for which it was
framed—could not be surpassed. The Habeas
Corpus Act is a very pleasant fiction. The moment
when its full effects make themselves felt, that
moment it is suspended. In its modem application,
it has become a very convenient toy for lawyers.
As a political engine for protecting the politically
weak against the politically and physically strong,
it has dwindled into a ridiculous fiction. The
modem Briton behaves to these political gods of
his very much in the same intelligent fashion as
the savage is said to behave to his tawdry deities:
—so long as all goes well with the worshipper, he
bows before the image with every indication of
affectionate awe ; but the instant things go askew
with him, he loads the object of his sometime
adoration with obloquy, slaps its insensible face,
and tumbles it ignominiously off its pedestal—to
be replaced again, and mumbled to apologetically,
the moment the crisis is past. The House of
Commons has just presented to the world the
spectacle of a reckless minority abusing those
forms which Britons have been accustomed to
regard as the perfection of self-acting machinery,
to obstruct the entire operations of legislation,
and of a passiouate majority unhesitatingly super-
seding the time-honoured checks upon tyranny by
expedients which knocked away the whole
structure of protection to individual free-speech.
The world has seen, with astonishment, a private
member punished as wilfully obstructive for
formally moving that the Premier be not heard,
and that same Premier immediately greeted with
applause on rising to propose an identical resolu-
tion with application to that private member. In
effect, it has been discovered that the fine
phrases of Constitutionalism only conceal, after
all, the force majeur, and that in Great Britain,
as elsewhere, a dominant class can and
will, in moments of excitement, disregard
all technical rights of minorities, be a law unto
itself, and act as if the constitution were its
creature instead of its controller. Nor is the ten-
dency to worship fine phrases and plausible
theories, while submitting to practical frauds, less
noticeable in this colony than in other parts of the
British dominions. We congratulate ourselves
upon the freedom and purity of our electoral
system, while roll-stuffing is a science among us,
and organized cliquism prostrates the choice and
overwhelms the influence of such electors as are
independent and free, in the full sense of the
terms. We, like other bull-headed Britons,
mouth _ swelling phrases about all men being
equal in the sight of the law, while every soul
of ns knows that the man with a slender purse
-S, no ghost of a chance against the man
with a big bank balance. We exchange
mane congratulations on the wisdom and gentle-
ness of the laws which provide that no man can
be imprisoned for debt, conscious all the while
that every man is liable to be clapped into gaol
for contempt of Court if he will not or cannot
satisfy a judgment. We talk handsomely about
the purity of our Courts, and our rulers discourse
grandly about their anxious care to keep the
magistracy elevated and dignified, and yet when
a shameless act of illegality and prostitution of
duty is sheeted home with the utmost clearness
to a group of magistrates, our worthy ministers
shuffle out of the difficulty by a reprimand which
the offenders laugh at, and a declaration that it
is impossible to accurately apportion the respon-
sibility among the individual offenders. Truly,
an age of shams.
The Hon. Thomas Garrett, M.P.
“ Ambition,” according to the dictum of the
solid Dr. Samuel Johnson, “ is the noble soul’s
distinguishing perfection.” The sturdy moralist
of course meant the real afflatus —the impulse to
unselfish heroism —the aim to realise a bright
ideal —and not paltry self-seeking, or the gratifica-
tion of morbid vanity, or an over-weening pride.
It is extremely difficult to penetrate to the core of
men’s motives—to find a key to the dominant
desires of their hearts; and hence the most subtle
critic—yea, even that seer of Chelsea who has re-
cently learned the full mystery of the “ Eternities”
—has to fall back on that homely but golden
canon, “By their fruit ye shall know them.” The
good or evil done by men must, therefore, be the
ultimate criterion for the determination of Ambi-
tion —must enable us to pronounce it a virtue or a
vice in each, as the case may be. It may not be
at beat all pure gold, or gold with alloy, or at
worst gold amalgamated with the basest metal, in
the proportion of a dozen pounds of the latter to
one of the former; but in so far as it has the pre-
cioua metal at all, it is of sterling moral worth.
What are our colonial experiences of nobly am-
bitious individuals ? Can we not couilt our pure
patriots on our fingers’ ends ? Who is truest and
purest amongst the whole huddlement —to borrow
a rough word from Quarles of the Emblems ? Is
it the man of solemn grim visage and ominous
tone of voice, or the genial and garrulous veteran,
who has played his game in the political arena
with as many winning cards stowed away as the
“ child-like and bland ” Heathen Chinee of the
poet ever had ? We should not like to set up one
of these as a type of perfection in the pursuit of an
honourable ambition, and must therefore fall back
on that mixture of pure metal and dross before
hinted at, and of which mankind is for the most
part composed. Many have we seen, each of
whom, in the language of Milton —
Seemed
For dignity composed and liigh exploit;
But all was false and hollow, though his tongue
Dropt manna, and could make the worse appear
The better reason, to perplex and dash
Matnrest counsels.
Many, indeed; but not very many, because most
of the aspirants in that direction lacked the ability
to perform the role. It is fortunate for the country
that so few of her clever men have converted
politics into a game of thimble-rig, and that of her
native-born sons she can still proudly boast of a
Wentworth, a Nichols, a Dailey, and a Driver —to
which quartette we may perhaps be permitted
to add the name at the head of this notice,
because the subject of it has few potent life-
associations outside New South Wales. A
curious and wonderfully successful career his has
been, as the bare facts of it attest. Thomas Garrett
is the son of Mr. John Garrett, P.M., of Scone,
formerly M.P. for Shoalhaven, and his wife, Sarah
Stafford, of Mortlake, Lancashire, England. He
was born at Liverpool on the 15th July, 1830, and
came to the colony with his parents in 1839. Hia
father was (and fortunately is) a man of vigorous
mind. He was almost self-educated, and like some
of his prototypes—William Cobbett and Henry
Parkes, to wit—acquired a degree of culture far
beyond that achieved by men who have worn
trencher-caps at universities for years. Mr. Gar-
rett, senior, having peculiar notions, and being a
man of reserved habits, devoted himself with a
zeal not common among fathers, to educate his son
himself. He taught him all he knew —more
especially in the region of history, natural science,
and general biography. The boy being apt and
bright (and by no means bashful), made good use
of the elementary stores of knowledge, and when-
ever difficulties beset him he was never ashamed
to ask for information from those who knew more
than hehimself did. His passion for every thing con-
nected with books and newspapers induced him to
look into a printing-office as the novitiate of an
intellectual hierarchy. He became a full-fledged
“ imp,” before he had completed his eleventh year,
in the establishment of the late James Reading,
where he remained a few years, and then completed
his apprenticeship with Stolheim and Frith, of the
Australian newspaper. An interesting episode
occurred in the interval between his leaving the
office of Mr. Reading and entering that of the
proprietors of the Australian. Men of mer-
curial temperament are always impulsive: so are
boys, ditto, ditto. Master Garrett, getting tired of
the monotonous “ click, click” of the composing
room, thought he would go to sea, and (like Sir
Sir John Robertson, he went, having obtained a
“hammock” on board H.M.S. Fly, Captainßluck-
now, engaged on a coast-surveying cruise from Port
Jackson to Hobson’s Bay. That duty accomplished,
the vessel was engaged on other services, and Mr.
Garrett returned to type again, and completed his
indentures as before mentioned. He worked for
some time on the Atlas and at the Government
Printing Office —in fact till 1855 —when in company
with Mr. W. F. Cahill he started the Illawarra
Mercury at Wollongong. It was a fair success
from the first, being neatly printed, carefully edi-
ted, and containing occasional sketches from some
of the best writers in the colony. When the Kian-
dra gold-discovery caused an exodus from the
metropolis and coast districts, Mr. Garrett led the
van with a printer’s plant—true symbol of civili-
zation—and started the Alpine Pioneer in 1859,
which lasted till the goldfield failed and its con-
stituents fled to other rushes, or took to other
pursuits. In the latter year—the Free Selection
Annus Mirabilis —he was returned to the Legisla-
tive Assembly for Monaro, having defeated two
respected identities of the place, Messrs. Patrick
Clifford and Henry Kesterton. At this election
he pinned his colours to Mr. (now Sir John) Robert-
son’s mast, or he borrowed a set from the latter,
and has never since for a moment deserted them,
although he may have disagreed with his chief aa
to how and when they should be used. Free-
selection before survey—the abolition of State-aid
to Religion—non-sectarian Education —Free-trade
—Railway extension —formed the principal lines of
his programme. The principles they embody are
his to-day. He sat in Parliament as a loyal Cow-
perite while the party held together, and was
certainly one of its most active members and keen
debaters. He shone not only in repartee, but in
detecting the sophistries (real or imagined) of hia
opponents. He was returned by Shoalhaven for
the next Parliament, and represented that con-
stituency up to 1872, when the res angusta domi
induced him to accept the office of P.M. at Berrima.
Can the old war-horse hear the clarion and not
thrill to the music ? No ; neither could Mr. Garrett
hear the distant roll of a general election —a few
months after his appointment—without feeling a
strong desire to join the melee. He was soon in
the midst of the din, and was returned with the
Hon. Captain Onslow for Camden. In 1875 his
first ministerial beatification occurred, as he was
offered and accepted the portfolio of Lands in the
Robertson-Forster Government. This position he
held till 1877, when, worn down by ill health and
the gnawing anxieties of office (for with him there
was no merely perfunctory performance of duty),
he resigned. His health recruited, he was again
called to the bureau of Lands the following year
—Sir John Robertson being first consul —but, after
a few months, had again to beat a retreat,
his physical stamina having become greatly en-
feebled and his mind somewhat affected. There
was also an irritating difference of opinion between
him and his chief about the extension of area for
free-selection. It is one of the misfortunes of the
gallant knight to think that he knows more than
anybody else, and to quarrel with anybody (hia
best friends included) who dare to doubt hia
infallibility. The voice of the people—public
opinion,—in the end proved that the lieutenant
was right, and that the Caesar of Free-selection —
who had crossed the Rubicon on a hobby-horse
—was decidedly wrong. Mr. Garrett, however,
acting on the advice of his friends, who found the
“wherewithal” to enable him to take it, set out
for the mother country in quest of “the rosy
goddess,” Health, and he found her there. If she
did not give him a very warm maternal embrace,
she at least invigorated his energies, cleared his
clouded brain, stirred up the purer passions and
hopes of his youth, sent him back to the land of
his adoption, which had dealt most generously
THE HON. THOMAS GARRETT. M.P.


It was recently advertised in Adelaide that, if
time permits, Laycock, will be presented with a testi-
monial in the evening on the stage of the Theatre Boyal
by Mr. Allison.” Time did not permit, a crowded house
was not the result, so Laycock sailed from the Land of
Flour without his liqueur stand.
In 1857, Mr. Cameron, a storekeeper, rode from
El Dorado in Beechworth, Victoria, on a horse wearing
golden shoes. Each shoe weighed 7 ozs. 4dwts. We
wonder whether that same man now goes second-class
by train, carries his dinner in a sandwich box, and
haggles with the cabman about his fare.
North Melbourne Election: Munro (liberal) 1755,
Quinlan (conservative) 1425, W. Gaunson 329. Gaunson
loses his deposit money.
The advalorem duties in Victoria increased, last
quarter, from £Bl,OOO to £llO.OOO. The total revenue
was £1,427,669, an increase of £170,680.
The proposed Murrnmbnrrah-Blayney line of
railway will run through a tract of country which, it is
said, will not pay for the grease on the track wheels.
The South Australian elections passed off quietly.
Mr. Fowler, who was returned for East Adelaide, said
his election was a triumph for free-trade. Mr. Johnson,
the defeated protectionist, denied that such was the
case.
William Gaunson, the defeated, charges the
Liberals of Victoria with ‘-selling” him, and by means
of bribery securing the election of Mr. Munro. William
never did take his “gruel" kindly; though, having
been defeated at least 250 millions of times, he ought
by this time to have learnt to look pleasant.
The Victorian Council passed a resolution
favouring the appointment of a committee of both
Houses for the consideration of the question of reform,
a hope being expressed that the selection, being by
ballot, would be of a fair and not a partisan character.
Mr. Berry accepted the proposal, but his Government
nominated a committee composed exclusively ot
Berryites. The Opposition objected, and a slight
change was made by ballot. The committee has had
several desultory discussions.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition I®*J«
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Any.
with him, that he might in the maturity of his
years give some degree of perfection to the work
he had grappled with so bravely twenty years ago.
He has done good and zealous duty as an official
of the Assembly. During the five years he held
the office of Chairman of Committees, he gave
satisfaction to the great majority of honorable
members. Now, having surveyed his varied
career—knowing as we know that he is intel-
lectually versatile and possesses valuable ex-
perience—thinking of his powers as a debater, a
party-organiser, and a thorough liberal, can we
doubt that his future will be brighter than his
past P If not the purest of our patriots, he is not
the mest alloyed; besides, he is one of the
cleverest amongst them. [The engraving is from
a splendid photo, by Freeman, George-street.]
We have been accused of a chronological error
in our sketch of the Hon. John Campbell. It is
asserted (by Mr. John Kellick, one of “ the oldest
inhabitants’”' that Mr. George Hill is the senior
of Mr. Campbell by some eighteen months. John
may be right; probably he is, although our infor-
mation was derived from a usually reliable source.
But we never discuss the question of age with
ladies or old gentlemen. We should have
mentioned in our sketch that Mr. Campbell’s
mother was the daughter of Mr. Deputy
Commissary-General Palmer, after whom one of
the streets in Woolloomooloo was named.
According to our informant, the straight natal tip
stands thus: —Hill, 1800; Campbell, 1802; Kellick,
1803. Sit salus omnibus!
SOCIAL.
The Newcastle lawn-tennis club is again in full
swing.
A divorce suit, in which a well-known “ elderly
gay Lothario” is concerned, is on the tapis at Auckland.
The eldest daughter of the incumbent of our
most fashionable church will be led to the altar next
month.
A Campbelltown solicitor, who is a widower,
will shortly marry the daughter of a resident of that
town.
The accomplished daugher of a gentleman well-
known in connection with auctioneering events will
shortly be married to a local Apollo.
One of the leading choristers in a suburban
Congregational Church —a charming girl—has named
the day to a gentleman from the Inverell district.
The latest novelty among the ladies is what are
called " Introduction Forms, which have to be filled
in to the lady’s satisfaction before she will allow the
gentleman to be introduced.
At the Cunningham Plains annual ball, the other
evening more than one gentleman attended made up as
** a nigger.” It is not yet known why more than one
lady who was not made up as a “ negress” was, late in
the evening, observed to bear a black smudge on her
cheek.
Any pretty woman, or one even fairly attractive
in face and figure, if possessed of taste and tact, can
wear what she chooses and not be out of fashion. She
must, however, be careful not to attempt too much.
Very few women can wear “ high-heeled low-cut patent
leather shoes, short skirts, and amber-coloured silk
stockings with bright gold decks,” as Mrs. Langtry,
the English beauty, is reported to have done.
The other day, a certain young man having
come of age, and become the owner of land worth
£20,000 in one Australian city, and property in another
valued at £70,000, sold his right, title, and interest in
it for a modest £5OOO cash and an annuity of £5OO for
life. The happy individual who has made the bargain
is a relative of the wise young man who gives away
£5OOO a year (or 5 per cent, on, say, £100,000) for £5OOO
down and £5OO a year afterwards. The question now is
whether the benefited representatives of the guileless
youth will move in the matter.
A fashionable wedding took place at Maitland,
on Monday last, the bridegroom being the Hon. E. A,
Baker, Minister for Mines, and the bride Miss Louisa
Georgiana Ketch, of Maitland. The bride wore a white
cashmere princesse robe, trimmed with white satin and
silk fringe, head dress of orange blossoms and long
tulle veil. The bridesmaids were as follow :—Miss
Parnell, who wore a princesse robe of dark blue lustre,
without trimming, head dress to match; Miss Boyd,
light blue lustre princesse robe, plain head dress to
match; Misses Beeket and Barton, who wore white
book-muslin short princesse robes, trimmed with light
blue satin bows, head dresses of blue satin trimmed
with white lace. The bride was given away by Captain
Sullivan, of Newcastle. After leaving the church the
company was entertained at a sumptuous breakfast at
the house of the bride’s mother.
In Melbourne there is a social clique composed
of young men who fancy themselves somewhat, styled
“The Bohemians.” These beaux of society meet weekly
and give vent to their feelings in songs and piano
manipulations. The merits of their performances are
equivocal, but there can be no doubt as to the superior
class of the gentlemen themselves. They move and
have their being among the very £liU and they never
discuss vulgar subjects, for familiarity breeds contempt
—you understand. It would’nt do for these mirrors of
fashion to remember that their fathers were shepherds
and bullock-drivers, and their mothers cooks in the
“ old days.” Reminiscences such as these are disagree-
able and do not mix well with the notion of evening
dress, and blast affectation. But they enjoy themselves
in their own ways, one of which is to make every member
of their body select give a dinner to “ all hands ”
on the eve of marriage. In other words they place a
decidedly prohibitory tax on the “ holy estate ”
which is reprehensible; yet the young ladies who bud
and blossom in Melbourne society, like these young men
■—they are so dreadfully lar-dy-da!—you know.
A divorce case is shortly to be heard in a
Colonial Supreme Court. The parties interested in
the suit belong to the so-called upper class. The
plaintiff in the case is the wife, and the co-respondent
her sister. Nice, very. Both the females are more
than ordinarily good-looking, and they affect to trace
their lineage from the time of the Normans, where, it
is said, their ancestor was principal bottle-washer to
William the Conqueror. The husband in this happy
affair is of Bohemian tendencies, and possessed of a
disposition not always honied. The wife also owns an
irascible temper, inherited from her Milesian fore-
fathers. The result of all this has simply gone to
prove the truth of the old adage, “ When Greek meets
Greek then comes the tug-of-war.” The tug has come
and the pull has been strong; but then it has not been
a pull all-together. It is feared that the petitioner in
this case has been placed somewhat in the same position
as was the “ wisest ” man the world ever saw—old
Solomon when he observed that there were three
things too wonderful even for him to understand,” and
one of these was “ the way of a man with a maid.”
The Boston and New York medical societies have
decided that none of their physicians shall give any
certificate in laudation of speculative health resorts,
nutritive or dietetic preparations, wines, mineral waters,
etc.
This is the irreverent way in which a London
man writes: —“ I hear great complaints about the Rev.
Lord Mayor M‘Arthur’s children’s party on Thursday.
Dancing was strictly prohibited ; and the poor children
who had looked forward eagerly to an evening’s light
fantastic, were compelled to sit and lounge about and
amuse themselves as best they could with microscopes,
living statuary, and magic lantern representations of
the Holy Laud. A large portion of the guests were
Nonconformist ministers, and it is understood that
prayer meetings were held at intervals during the
evening. The face of one of the Lord Mayor’s footmen
when ho helped a clerical guest on with his overcoat,
and received a tract as a gratuity, can be easier
imagined than described. . . . The Lord Mayor’s
threat that during his tenure of office there should be no
ungodly leg-shaking will undoubtedly be carried out.”
From this it would seem that we and the London folks
are rowing in the same galley this year.
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
More Chinkies!
Grand and successful show at Bathurst.
Great influx of Chinese to the New England tin
mines.
Ten thousand visited the Agricultural Show at
Goulburn.
Last week’s imports and exports of Sydney were
in value £423,951.
Population of Victoria—April, 1861, 540,322;
April, 1871, 731.528.
The compulsory provisions of the Education
Act are being put in force.
Silver from the Boorook mines, Tenterfield,
realizing high prices in London.
The ’Frisco mail, last Saturday, brought hither
57,617 letters, papers, and books.
At the Vegetable Creek tin mines there are
1000 Chinere and 1600 Europeans.
Aaron Sherritt, at the time he was shot by the
Kellys, was in the Victorian police.
About seven fatal accidents were reported in
the Sydney papers last Monday morning.
A great temperance demonstration takes place
at the Garden Palace on Easter Monday.
Mr. Longmore proposes a tax of 10s. a head on
cattle, and Is. on sheep, arriving in Victoria.
Mr. J. S. Berry has been fined ,£25 and ordered
to abate the nuisance at his glue-works. Botany.
Serious defalcations in the accounts of Carter, !
secretary to Harkness’s Victorian Foundry. He has
absconded.
A prisoner named George Thompson escaped
from Parramatta Gaol on Tuesday, and has not yet been
re-captured.
The Indian Government wants 900 horses from
the Australian colonies. Highest figure for the best
stamp, £55
The Victorian Harbour Trust have awarded a
prize of 100 guineas to Messrs. Farram and Merritt for
their silt-lifter, i
Victorian Parliament to be prorogued for a
fortnight—to allow the Council opportunity of con-
sidering the Reform Bill.
The ’Frisco mail boats do not enter Honolulu
now that small pox is raging on the Island, hut stand
outside waiting for the mails.
The Queensland steel rails inquiry, conducted
in London, has ended in “ bung," the Brisbane Govern-
ment coming out of the affair with clean hands.
A bag, containing 1000 sovereigns, is missed
from the Commercial Bank, Melbourne. It is thought
that someone concealed within the Bank committed the
robbery.
Owing to the prevalence of foot and mouth
disease in England, the Victorian Government have
determined to prohibit the inportation of cattle from
abroad.
The prize cow. Jasmine, exhibited at Goulbnm
show, was on a recent night shamefully maltreated by
some scoundrel, who cut her tail off. The cow is owned
by Mr. Walter Douglas.
During last year, eighteen vessels were wrecked
on the coast of New South Wales : tonnage, 3816; lives
lost, 47; value of property, £21,210, besides two cargoes
of coal —value unknown.
Meteorological conference to be held at Melbonrne
on the 21st; Mr. Bussell (Sydney), Mr. Todd (Ade-
laide), Dr. Hector (New Zealand), and Mr. Ellery
(Melbourne), to be present.
A man named Edward William Southcombe,
said to be a member of a respectable English family of
that name, committed suicide at Gnlgong on the 2nd
April. He was evidently insane.
Many of the claims at Temora, being able to
wash, are yielding splendidly. Nearly all claims are
paying well. Ounce nuggets have been picked out from
many of the heaps. At Lewis’s claim 15 oz. in nuggets
were got from the sluice boxes.
The survivors of the Marquis de Ray’s disastrous
expidition, 200 in number, are now comfortably housed
at the Agricultural Hall, Sydney Domain. The govern-
ment, which deals with the unfortunates most liberally,
is treating them as immigrants.
A terrible state of things exists at Honolulu.
Small-pox, introduced by Chinese, is raging fiercely and
decimating the inhabitants. The white population is
flying for safety. The Mongolians still continue to
arrive, and are appropriating the native women.
Mr. Alfred Wyatt, P.M., who was travelling in
in the van of a train on the North-Eastern (Victorian)
line on the Bth instant, in the absence of the guard
reversed the brake, and caused a collision. Some
damage was done to property, but nothing very serious
occurred.
The City Surveyor of Sydney, in a very valuable
report on street-making, shows by statistics that for
and away the best and most durable material is the
asphalte provided by the Val de Travers Company, of
London. He says that the Macadam principle is now
out of date.
The conference over the Reform question
between representatives of the two Victorian chambers
has resulted in nothing, after a final acrimonious
sitting. Mr. Berry, however, says he is willing to
allow the Council, by discussing the measure, to indicate
to what length their concessions would go.
At Newcastle, on Friday night, Dr. Hastie and
a young man named John Nally, both of whom were
riding on horseback, came violently into collision owing
to their horses having been startled by some dogs. The
doctor was severely shaken, and Nally received a shook
from the effects of which he died some hours after-
wards.
The Scotch fish brought out in the freezing-room
of the Lusitania was retailed in Melbourne as follows :
Salmon ss. to 6s. per lb., turbot 45., and soles 4s. Large
purchases were made by the principal hotelkeepers. At
the Yonck Club, turbot was pronounced to have re-
tained its flayour, but the salmon was adjudged dry and
tasteless.
Mr. M’llwraith telegraphs to the Brisbane Go-
vernment to the effect that he hopes to be able to
complete within a week the floating of the trans-conti-
nental railway scheme—the terms being 10,000 acres
per mile of Western, and 12,000 acres per mile of Gulf
country. Mr. M’llwraith leaves London for Australia
next week.
The body of Daniel Bradford, selector and free-
holder, was found in the Nimby dam, Demondrille
Creek, near Murrumburrah, on the 6th, with his fore-
head smashed, and a bag pulled over his head. His
hands and shoulders were tied with a wire. A son of
the deceased, arrested on suspicion of the murder, has
since been discharged.
The much-talked of prosecution of Mr.
William Archer, Mayor of Burwood, for some alleged
illegality in the matter of the recent Municipal elec-
tion, ended, as was expected, in smoke. The
tiral came on last Saturday before Judge Wilkinson,
and after the evidence was taken, and while his Honor
was summing up, the jury intimated that no case had
been made out, and forthwith the proceedings ter-
minated. General satisfaction was expressed at Bur-
wood to the result, and Mr. Archer has since met
with numerous congratulations from influential friends.
On Wednesday evening an enthusiastic meeting
assembled in that suburb to sympathise with the
Mayor.
A grand naval shamfight took place in the
harbour on Tuesday afternoon, and was witnessed by
30,000 or 40,000 people. H.M.S. Wolverene, Emerald,
Miranda, and Cormorant formed the attacking, and the
gunboats Alert, Beagle, Conflict, Renard, and Sandfly,
together with the divisions from the the men-of-war
and the whole of our Naval Brigade, formed the
defending force. The ships of war were supposed to
have survived the fire of the 18-ton guns st the outer
batteries, and engaged to force the position of the
defenders at the Macquarie Battery. The display was
grand, and the affair thoroughly met the object iu view
—that of indicating to the local forces the probable
method of an attack on Sydney by water.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Cairoli (Italian) Ministry resigned.
Bradlaugh re-elected for Northampton.
Lord Beaconsfield’s dangerous condition un-
changed.
New Irish Land Bill to have a slightly retro-
spective effect.
British Parliament adjourned to the 25th April
—Easter recess.
The leading American journals approve of the
Irish Land Bill.
Warlike feeling in Greece. Grand review of
troops at Athens.
Another Liberal seat carried by the Con-
servatives—St. Ives.
Dillon, Land Leaguer, denounces the Irish Law
Bill as not liberal enough.
Fijian per cent, loan of ,£150,000 subscribed
five times over at about £99 10s.
The Boers continue their outrages against those
who were loyal to the British in the late war.
Lord Carlingford (Chichester-Fortescue) suc-
ceeds the Duke ot Argyle as Lord Privy Seal.
Yote of confidence in the French Ministry pro-
posed and carried in the Chamber of Deputies.
Serious riot with the police at Ballinamore,
County Galway. A girl killed; many persons wounded.
The President of the Board of Trade has intro-
duced a radical Bankruptcy Bill into the House of
Commons.
Proposed change in date of Victorian Mail
Service occasions some difficulty to the Indian Service.
No decision yet.
Vote of censure on the Gladstone Government
moved by Sir Michael Hieks-Beach, re the treaty of
peace concluded with the Boers.
Latest returns show that 5000 persons lost their
lives by the earthquake at the Island of Scio, in the
iEgean Sea; many hundreds wounded. The chief town
in rains. ,
The British Government have despatched a
portion of the Mediterranean squadron to the relief of
the inhabitants of Scio, the scene of the recent
earthquake.
The Duke of Argyll, who resigned his seat in
Gladstone Ministry, says that the Irish Land Bill will
tend to paralyse the landowners’, and to injure the
agricultural, interest.
A British squadron, including the Bacchante,
with Prince Albert Victor and Prince George of Wales
on board, is preparing for a cruise to Australia—Ad-
miral Earl Clanwilliam in command.
The Boer war likely to be resumed. The surrender
ot the fort at Polcheftsroom is found to have been
effected through the treachery of the Boers while the
negotiations for peace were proceeding. This fact, with
the discreditable terms of the said peace, are likely to
lead to a renewal of hostilities.
The Irish Land Bill introduced by the Gladstone
Government] contains much that is demanded by the
Irish agitators—free sale, fair rent, and fixed tenure.
The tenure to be limited to fifteen years, with a scale of
indemnity payments to the tenant if disturbed before
seven years. Rents to be fixed by assessment.
Difficulty between Prance and Italy over the
disturbances at Tunis. France declares her intention
of maintaining a preponderating influence over the
Tunisians, and to that end has massed a body of 10,000
troops at Bona, a fortified seaport town of Constantine,
where they will remain to watch the progress of events.
LATE SPORTING.
The fastest mile on record for a pedestrian is
4min. 17Jsec.
Lord Lisgar broke down in the Hawkesbury
Antnmn Handicap.
Frank Punch has given .£25 to be added to the
“ Walker whisky trophy."
Triokett has challenged Boyd for £2OO a side
and the championship of the Thames.
M‘ Shane is as good a footballer as he is a
cricketer, and will be a loss to Victoria.
It is understood that Eush makes a match with
Laycock before he returns to the Clarence.
Eowell has been challenged by John Hughes, of
New York, to go-as-you-please for six days.
The Oxford crew were the favorites for the
great University boat race; 2to 1 was freely laid on
them.
The Victorian Eailway Department required an
exorbitant guarantee for a special train to the Albury
race meeting.
Croydon, the winner of the Public Auction
Stakes at the Hawkesbury Meeting, was bought in by
his owner for £5l.
Hanlan, the oarsman, was entertained at a dinner
at New York, at which the Rev. Mr. Beecher and ocher
celebrities were present.
Lord Bnrghley became very fit just a day before
the Handicap: hence the shortening of his price
immediately before the start.
The Australian Eleven have been severely cen-
sured by a portion of the English sporting press for not
taking part in the intercolonial contests.
Mr. W. J. Clarke increased his subscription to
the Laycock fund to £l9 10s., in order to bring the tota
amount subscribed for in Melbourne to a level century
Bbentano’s Monthly is authority for the
statement that Mr. Richard Eoolie is ready to back
Jacob Schaefer against any billiard-player in the world
for £6,000.
The East Melbourne Club have had good field-
ing practice lately. They had to field only in their last
four matches, in which nearly 1200 runs were made
against them.
Wallace Eoss was loud in his opinion that he
should have taken the Hop Bitters easily enough if
Laycock had shown no better form that day than in his
race with Hanlan.
At the Victoria Coursing Club Meeting on
Friday, owing to the hard dry ground a number of dogs
were wounded. Rabbits were most abundant. Twenty
one trials were run.
During the congratulatory speeches at Laycock’s
reception one matter was overlooked. No reference was
made to Laycock’s magnanimous gift of half the Hop
Bitters Prize to Trickett.
Mr. Fenton Fitzpatrick has held the billiard
championship cue of Ireland three years. It is now his
propertv. Still, he is willing to risk it in a match if a
competitor will step forward.
The Victorian win in the cricket match at
Adelaide was quite unexpected in Melbourne on account
of the inferiority of the team sent and the known im-
provement of South Australian cricket.
The Sporting Mirror, edited by that well-
known writer, Harry Etherington, is the latest addition
to the sporting literature of London. The Mxrbob is a
monthly illustrated magazine, handsomely printed.
The rifle match between Carver and Scott for
£6OO was begun on March 8. Conditions: 2000 shots
nightly for ten nights, at 2000 glass balls, propelled
from traps. The first night’s score—Carver, 940;
Scott, 935.
When Falmouth was making his run at the
finish of the Autumn Handicap something galloped on
his heels, and he lost ground, otherwise ha might have
secured second place. However, he could not have beaten
the Barber in any case.
The home sporting journals state that the
Empress of Austria, who is staying at Combermere, in
Cheshire, has had some clipping runs with the hounds
in the district, and that there is not a better horse-
woman in the kingdom.
In the run home from Baldwin’s Ferry, at Five
Dock, after the boat race last Saturday, Harrison’s
four bays, piloted by that well-known driver J. Keys,
beat the four picked greys of the Sydney United
Omnibus Co.’s stable, driven in the Darling 'Point
Coach.
Clarence Whistler threw Thieband Bauer twice*
in 12m. and 7m. respectively, in a Grseoo-Eoman
wrestling exhibition, for gate-money, at Music Hall,
Boston, Mass., Feb. 19. Instead of the large throng
expected, only about 350 persons were present, and
there was little to divide.
In a pigeon match decided at Deerfoot Park,
Parkville. Long Island, in the beginning of March,
between John H. Brewer and Dr. Talbot, 100 birds each,
21 yards rise, 80 yards fall, one trap, the former won,
killing 96 birds. He brought down 40 out of the first
44, and did not miss one in the last 56. The victor is to
be matched against Bogardns.
The results of the first day’s racing of the
Murrumbidgee Turf Club are as follow : —Selling Plate :
Evidence 1, Aristocrat 2, Cassandra 3. Leger : Hilde-
brand 1, Marchioness 2, Dictator 3. Selling Plate:
Aristocrat 1, Croix d’Honneur 2, Mabel 3 Autumn
Handicap : Macaroni 1, Punter 2, Albyn 3. Mares’
Produce Stakes: Brian Boru 1, Victory 2, Birthday 3,
A twelve hours’ walking match took place at
the Sydney Omnibus Company’s stables, Newtown, on
Saturday, between Spalding and Bosenberg, and re-
sulted in a victory for the former by a mile and 12 laps,
he having completed Similes 15 laps as against 50 miles
3 laps, the distance accomplished by Bosenberg. The
race was well contested, and the loser walked in a
plucky manner.
Footballing has commenced since the frosts
broke up in the United Kingdoms. Scotland v. Ireland
was played at Belfast, and ended in a victory for Ireland
by a goal and a try. England v. Wales (Eugby) played
at Blackheath, resulting in an easy victory for England
by eight goals and five tries to nothing. The match
North v. South of England, at Sheffield, resulted in a
victory for South by two goals against one.
Incident of the Bosenberg-Spalding [match at
Newtown. At about 3 p.m., Spalding, who was leading
by about a mile, took a rest and had a drink of milk.
Directly he had taken a mouthful, he noticed it had a
very strange taste. The drink was sent to Mr.
Humphries, chemist, and was found to contain
carbolic acid. A paper containing carbolic powder was
found in the room, and it handed to the police
John Bright, who had charge of Hanlan before
his race with Triokett, and “ showed him up ” on the
day, avers that when Hanlan had rowed about a mile
in the race with Trickett, he signalled that he was done
and could go no further. Bright thereupon made signs
to Ward, who was on the umpire’s boat, and Ward
responded to the effect that Hanlan was to keep on at
all hazards. Directly after this Trickett cracked, and
the narrowness of his escape caused Hanlan to become
overjoyed, and to disport himself so remarkably above
Hammersmith.
Alec Keene (for that was the nom de guerre of
Alexander Findlay), formerly well-known as a pugilist
is dead. He was a man of magnificent physique, and,
though his muscular development was immense, he was
lithe, active, and well-proportioned. That his vitality
was on a par with his muscularity was well proved
upon more than one occasion. Among those beaten by
him during his brilliant career in the ring were Bill
Cain (in December, 1846), and Joe Phelps, who after,
wards had so much to do with the formation of Sayers’
championship. It was Keene who found most of the
money for Tom Sayers when that oyer-ambitious young
person was defeated by Nat Langham.
The Hawkesbury Race Club Autumn Meeting,
which took place on Thursday and Saturday last, was
well attended. The racing was perhaps more success-
fully carried out than at any previous meeting of the
club. The Autumn Handicap, the event of the meet-
ing, was considered to be a very open race, twelve out
of the fourteen starters having been heavily backed.
The result liras hardly satisfactory to the general
public, but the stable and a favoured few pinned their
faith to the Barber, and justly so, for he won as he
liked. Tbe results are as follow: —First Day : Hurdle
Eace, about 2i miles —Discount 1, The Hatter 2, Sleet
3. The Eowley Mile —Wandering Jew 1, West Country
Dick 2, Greyhound 2. The Claret Stakes, 5 furlongs—
The Gem 1, Etna 2, The Exeter 3. Public Auction
Stakes, 1J mile —Croydon 1, Speculation 2, Fragments 3.
Eailway Handicap, li mile—Saunterer 1, Major 2,
Billy Nutts 3. Second Day: Shorts Handicap, |of a
mile—Gunild 1, Stella 2, Prarie Bird 3. Maiden Plate,
U mile—Etna 1, The Gem 2, Good Morning 3. Hawkes-
bury Autumn Handicap, It mile—Barber 1, Major 2,
Falmouth 3; time, 2min 38 2-lOsecs. Two-year-old
Plate—Stilton 1, Eobecca 2, Wheel of Fortune 3. The
Sportsman Cup, 1 mile 3 furlongs—Wandering Jew 1,
Black Swan 2, Billy Nutts 3.
The annual meeting of the Glenhead Football
Club, was held on the evening of 6th instant, Mr.
C. Jennings in the chair. The report showed that,
during the past season, the first team played 15
matches, lost 3, and drew 1. The second team played
12 matches, winning 6, losing 5, and drawing 1. On
several occasions, members were taken from the second
team to fill vacancies in the first, and this, of course,
had the effect of considerably weakening the juniors.
It is proposed to celebrate the close of the coming
season by a picnic similar to that given by the club last
year. The caps of honour for those members who dis-
tinguished themselves in the field last season were
awarded to Messrs. Butler, Baylis, Grainger, Jones, and
Jennings in the first team; and in the second team,
medals to Messrs. Hillyar, Silk, and Bethel. The
treasurer's report also was read and adopted, and
showed that tbe club’s funds were in a very flourishing
condition. Votes of thanks were passed to the presi-
dents, patron, and office-bearers of the club. The office
bearers for the ensuing season, 1881, were then elected,
viz.:—Patron, Mr. W. J. Trickett. M.L.A.; president.
Sir P. A. Jennings, C.M.Q.; vice-presidents, Mr.
G. H. Eeid, M.L.A., and Alderman S. E. Lees; hon.
secretary, Mr. E. Warren; hon. treasurer, Mr. H. M.
Cansdell; committee: Messrs. F. Baylis, J. Butler, J.
Tooher, 0. Jennings,and S. Jones; delegates to Union:
Messrs. F. Baylis and J. Tooher. Several new members
were elected, and the meeting adjourned.


SATURDAY, 23rd APRIL.
SATURDAY, 23bd APRIL.
AUBURN DOWNS:
A MAGNIFICENT BLOCK OF LAND
IN AREA
Upwards of 150 acres,
Subdivided into
497 SPLENDID ALLOTMENTS,
situate
IMMEDITELT OPPOSITE
THE AUBURN PLATFORM.
*#* A CHANCE NOT TO BE MISSED.
B ATT, Rodd, and Pdeves
Have received instructions to sell tlae above ESTATE,
By PUBLIC AUCTION.
SATURDAY, APRIL 23,
AT 3 P.M.,
ON THE GROUND.
SECTION 1 contains, 35 ALLOTMENTS, viz..
7 lots, fronting the PARRAMATTA
ROAD.
14 ditto ditto AUBURN VIEW ROAD
14 ditto ditto NORTHUMBERLAND
ROAD
SECTION 2. 8 lots fronting the PARRAMATTA
ROAD
14 ditto ditto NORTHUMBERLAND
ROAD
14 ditto STATION ROAD
SECTION 3. 8 lots fronting the PARRAMATTA
ROAD
14 ditto ditto STATION ROAD
13 ditto ditto DARTBROOK ROAD
SECTION 4. 8 lots fronting the PARRAMATTA
ROAD
13 ditto ditto DARTBROOK ROAD
13 ditto ditto ST. HILLIER’S ROAD
SECTION 5. 6 lots fronting the PARRAMATTA
ROAD
13 ditto ditto ST. HILLIER’S ROAD
12 ditto ditto PERCY ROAD
SECTION
6. 17 lots fronting AUBURN VIEW ROAD
17 ditto ditto NORTHUMBERLAND
ROAD
SECTION
7. 17 lota fronting NORTHUMBERLAND
ROAD
17 ditto ditto STATION ROAD
SECTION
8. 17 lots facing STATION ROAD
17 ditto ditto DARTBROOK ROAD
SECTION 9. 17 lots facing DARTBROOK ROAD
17 ditto ditto ST. HILLIER’S ROAD
SECTION 10. 17 lots facing ST. HILLIER’S ROAD.
17 ditto ditto PERCY ROAD
SECTION 11. 11 lots facing AUBURN VIEW ROAD
7 ditto ditto AUBURN PARADE
12 ditto PERCY ROAD
SECTION 12. 12 lots facing NORTHUMBERLAND
ROAD
8 ditto ditto AUBURN PAR ADE
12 ditto ditto STATION STREET
SECTION 13. 12 lots facing STATION ROAD
8 ditto ditto AUBURN PAR 4DE
12 ditto ditto DARTBROOK ROAD
SECTION 14. 12 lots facing DARTBROOK ROAD
8 ditto ditto AUBURN PARADE
12 ditto ditto ST. HILLIER’S ROAD
SECTION 15. 12 lots facing ST. HILLIER’S ROAD
8 ditto ditto AUBURN PaRADE
12 ditto ditto PERCY ROAD.
W All the above ALLOTMENTS have FRONTAGES
of 50 feet by DEP THS of 200 feet.
The SITES in this Estate are unequalled for ELE-
VATION. GOOD SOIL, and VIEWS of the PENNANT
HILLS, BLUE MOUNTAINS, and surrounding coun-
try, while for CONVENIENCE of access to the CITY
they cannot be surpassad.
The LAND has been surveyed by Mr. Licensed Sur-
veyor Atchison, with a view to secure all advantages of
DRAINAGE and MODERN SANITARY considera-
tion.
SOLICITORS to the Estate, Messrs. MCCARTHY,
ROBERTSON, and FISHER.
TITLE FREEHOLD, or if preferred, TORREN’S
ACT. TITLE GUARANTEED.
DEEDS FREE OP COST. FREE OP COST.
(Except Stamp Duty).
LITHOS. and SALE PLAN NOW READS’.
REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED.
FREE TICKETS. FREE TICKETS. FREE TICKETS
•a* REMEMBER THE DAY OF SALE,
SATURDAY, 23rd APRIL,
At 3 p.m.
TERMS, VERY EASY, viz., 20 per cent. cash.
Balance, in four equal payments at 4, 12, 18, and 24
months from DATE of SALE with interest at only 5
per cent.
BATT, RODD, & PURVES,
AUCTIONEERS.
Callao, in Peru, lost ,£3,200,000 by fires and riots
bfore being captured by the Chilians.
A steamer is to be despatched from an American
port in search of the Jeannette Arctic expedition.
The “Australian Hand Book” states that in
Mudgee there are two boat factories. Now this is too
much of a good thing, as only quite recently a deputa-
tion from Mudgee was on the war path for a water
supply, and the Mayor’s geese were on the wing for
fresh water last week.
A person has sent ns a communication from
Maitland which, besides being false on the face of it, is
execrably dull. If the author of the libel on a respected
Maitland attorney will call at this office, he will find his
copy awaiting him—in the dust-hole. We never libel
attorneys—on principle.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Anv.
EASTER SATURDAY,
APRIL 16th.
WEST WOODFORD. WEST WOODFORD,
MOUNTAIN SCENERY.
THE HEALTHIEST SPOT IN THE COLONY.
«• 50 VILLA SITES,
Commanding Panoramic Views,
and situate between FAIRFAX’S (late Buss’) and
LAWSON STATION, fronting the BATHURST ROAD,
TO BE SOLD.
ON THE GROUND.
SPECIAL TRAIN will leave Sydney at 8.35 a.m.,
and return at about 4 o’clock.
LUNCHEON WILL BE PROVIDED.
BY ORDER OF MESSRS. C. K. MOORE AND PIKE.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
Terms, i cash, balance m 3,6, 9, and 12 months,
at 6 per cent.
HARDIE and GORDON have received instruc-
tions to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
at 11 o’clock, on
SATURDAY, 16th APRIL.
O* WOODFORD, no doubt, is acknowledged to be the
beat FRUIT-GROWING DISTRICT
for many miles along the WESTERN
RAILWAY LINE, in addition to
which the HEALTHINESS of the
locality is well known to persons
accustomed to enjoy its
CLEAR AND INVIGORATING MOUNTAIN AIR.
PLAN ON VIEW AT THE ROOMS.
LITHOGRAPHS.
to" THIS ELEVATED SPOT was chosen by the
Government Astronomer for views of the
Transit of Venus, and it is the only place
between WOODFO BD and BLUE MOUN-
TAIN STATIONS where the line of railway
is level, and where consequently a station or
platform can be erected.
DAY OF SALE,
16th APRIL.
THE RIVERSTONE ESTATE.
682 ACRES, SUBDIVIDED AS UNDER.
IMMEDIATELY OPPOSITE THE RAILWAY
STATION.
BEAUTIFUL UNDULATING COUNTRY,
SUITABLE for ORCHARDS. VINEYARDS, FARMS,
and COUNTRY VILLAS.
BATT, EODD, and PUEYES have received
instructions to sell by PUBLIC AUCTION,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, May 7th.
tar WITHOUT RESERVE,
v The ABOVE VALUABLE ESTATE, most liber-
ally subdivided by Mr. Licensed Surveyor
BINSTED, as follows :
50 TOWN LOTS, each containing about ONE ACRE
79 TOWN LOTS, each containing about TWO ACRES
•9 BLOCKS, each containing about FIVE ACRES
THE HOTEL, with LARGE BLOCK of GROUND,
STORE, &c. at present LET at £l5O per
annum.
THE LAND IS ALL GOOD and WELL TIMBERED.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
TERMS WILL BE MOST LIBERAL.
SOLICITOR to the ESTATE—A. H. M’CULLOCH,
Esq., Jun.
BATT, RODD, and PURVES.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pore
uncolonred teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless .scenting, which renders it very palatable.
1 recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Kabl Theodore Staiohb, analytical
chemist.”—Advt.
LATE THEATRICAL.
That some additional public interest attaches
itself to “ The Pirates." in consequence of the change
in the cast va sans dire. Viewed critically, however,
the performance of the substitutes cannot be other-
wise described than as a very mild improvement. We
always like to be as kind as we can, and, if we have a
kindly feeling towards anyone (which we trust we have),
Miss Maggie Moore retains a very large chunk of it.
At the same time, we cannot congratulate her on her
impersonation of Bnth, “the piratical maid-of-all-
work.” That it was an improvement on Miss Acton
Blair is undeniable; but under no possible combination
of circumstances could Mrs. Williamson have given a
less intelligent rendering of the part than its late
representative. Mrs. Williamson’s impersonation of
the character is rendered ridiculous from the fact of hei 4
setting the “ unities" totally at defiance. The wholer
humour of the opera tarns upon Ruth being plain,
and middle-aged,; yet in spite of this, Miss Maggie
Moore “ makes up ” as a girl of sixteen. This is a
dramatic anachronism which is quite unpardonable,
and we are surprised that Mr. Williamson should have
sanctioned an innovation which is in direct contra-
vention to the author’s text. “Miss Maggie” sang
the part surprisingly well—notably her opening number
—but whatever success she might have achieved was
marred by the absurd mistake she made in appearing
pretty when she should have gone to any lengths to
have rendered herself plain.
• « *
Miss Elsa May, who has replaced Miss Deakin,
though a better actress than the Josephine of our hearts,
lacks. in an eminent degree the freshness of voice,
which was such a charming characteristic of the young
lady Miss May has succeeded. The present impersona-
tor of Mabel suffers from over-confidence. She gushes
in all the pieces, and dresses the part like a pantomime
coryphee; forgetting, presume bly, that the daughter of
a “Modem Major-General” would scarcely wander
about the sands of Penzance in a skirt that “ hardly
ever ” shrouds from the public gaze that portion of the
human anatomy which is three inches below the knee.
♦ * »
Mr. Yemon as the Major-General so far as being
an improvement on Mr. South is a dismal failure. In
his dress he looks like a corn-sack upon a hop-pole, and
his rendering of the famous patter song was an ex-
tremely feeble attempt at vocalization. People used to
laugh with Mr. South, but they laugh at Mr. Vernon.
There is no more humour in him than is to be found in
an engine-driver after a railway accident.
* * •
Amongst the unchanged Miss Liddiard still
gleams a bright, particular and beautiful star; and Mr.
Williamson still effectively preserves order amongst
the “foorce.” Miss Clara Gwynne and Miss Nellie
Playfair still struggle on, but it is unfortunate that
in addition to their vocal disabilities alles ne savmt pas
se fairs une taille,
» * *
The Gaiety Opera Company open in Maritana.
Signor Bartolomeotti is in the costumier. He is also
next in command to Mr. Williamson in the Penzance
police force.
• r
Professor Anderson re-appears at the School of
Arts on Saturday next, when he will turn water into
wine, swallow the largest-sized carving knife, and give
away a Koh-i-noor, a coal mine, and a few dehd friends.
Miss Louise will assist the Professor, both in the
prestidigitation (that’s a good word) and in the distri-
bution (that’s another). Hi, presto—whoop! But
really, the show’s not bad.
The new Brisbane theatre opens on Easter
Monday.
Maggie Liddle has left the Tambour Major
crowd. She objects to quit Melbourne.
Mr. George Musgrove has arrived at Adelaide,
to make preparations for the production of “ Tambour
Major.”
It takes more “ black ” to make up a real
nigger than a white man. So says Hegarty. He ought
to know.
Tambour Major, in Melbourne, plays for the
last time on 23rd inst. Opera House then closes for
repairs. Hen etait temps !
The Maitland Amateurs have lately been having
a flutter. 'They played “ Waiting for the Verdict ” the
other night. The result has been three funerals and a
verdict of “found drowned.”
Mr. Henry Burton, the well-known circus pro-
prietor, after 25 years travelling the Australian colo-
nies, is now living retired at hfs station at Bedbank. It
is hardly probable he will ever resume his old sphere
again.
The Austrian Band soloists left for a week’s
tour in the country districts, this week. They appear
at Bathurst, Wellington, Orange, and Dubbo. From
the 19th inst. they commence a month’s engagement to
Mr. John Bennett.
We have inadvertently mentioned, in the “ Poor
Player,” that the children’s fete at the Garden Palace
takes place on Easter Monday. The event comes off on
Saturday, and from what we hear, we are of opinion
that the olive branches will have a good time.
The South “ Pinafore” troupe leave for Bathurst
on Saturday evening. In addition to those artistes
already announced as forming Mr. South’s company.
Miss Theresa Horan, who assumes the rSle of Butter-
cup, must be mentioned. Miss Horan has graduated
in a good school, having gone through the New Zealand
tour with the Lingards ; —besides, she is a first-class
musician. Miss Eugenie Horan appears as Hebe.
When Harwood had his last flutter at the
Sydney “Royal,” he paid £250 for the week, and played
for “six nights only,” to the stage manager’s mother-
in-law and the property man’s aunt. On looking over
the list of ex’s, one morning with Sam Lazar, he saw
the item “ Chucker-out —one pound.” “ Alas!” sighed
“Keep-yer-eye-on-yer-father," “I must object to a
chucker-out:’ what we really want is a * chucker-in.’ ”
Cole’s Mammoth Circus and Menagerie have
been visited by immense crowds since opening in this
city. On Tuesday night about 7000 people visited the
show. The menagerie is a great attraction. In the
circus, marvellous athletic and equestrian feats are per-
formed. The acrobats are the cleverest that have been
down this side of the equator, their ordinary perfor-
mances including acts which hitherto were held to be
impossible of accomplishment. The equestriennes are
daring, graceful, and clever. As to their stud of
trained horses, these Americans have in truth come to
show us something.
A good joke was recently played on Mr. H. E.
Walton, who has been appearing in “Kerry Gow,” at
the Royal, Melbourne. Some realistic effects were
introduced into the play, and Walton had to go through
the process of shoeing a real live horse. To be equal to
the task, he decided upon taking some practical lessons
iu the art. The farriers, after giving him one or two
lessons, resolved to have some fun. So, instead of
lending him an old screw to practice upon, they slipped
a young oolt’s hoof between his legs. The colt objected,
and wound up by seizing the unhappy actor by the seat
f his unmentionables. H.E. W. went home in a cab.
The Chinese steamship line trading from Canton
to San Francisco is pressing the Pacific Mail Company
for the Chinese trade.
The Prince of Wales gave a dinner to 25 guests
recently, at the Marlborough Club, t* decide the quali-
fications of a new cook, who was unanimously voted not
np to the mark.
Three splendid warehouses or stores are being
erected by Mr. F. Scholer in Pitt-street, midway be-
tween Bathurst and Liverpool streets. The stores are
built on first-class plans, and are a decided improve-
ment to the portion of the city in which they stand.
The foundations are on the solid rock, and the walls
stand on massive arches, which not only give great
strength to the superstructure, but afford splendid
cellarage. The buildings are three in number, and are
three storeys high, the front being of a handsome de-
sign in Pyrment stone. They have each a breadth of
shout 23ft. with a depth of 71ft., and have hoists
operating on each floor. The stores are built under the
Personal superintendence of the owner, and throughout
tale models of business architecture.
J. B. Stevenson, Esq.
HIS BOOK.
Me. James B. Stevenson, who, it would seem, is a
resident of Sydney, although his book is printed in
Liverpool, has published an account of his bush-life.
He calls it “ Seven years in the Australian Bush,” and
it is, we are sorry to say, rather a dreary business. Mr.
Stevenson in his preface says: “ I have ....
written the following account of my life during that
period, which I now beg to lay before my readers, who
will, I trust, bear in mind (when inclined to criticise)
that there is considerable difficulty in keeping up the
interest in a narrative which contains nothing more
exciting than the commonplace qcourences of every-day
life in the bush.” We are, of course, “inclined to
criticise," and Mr. Stevenson is inclined to read our
criticism, or possibly he would not have sent us his
book and his compliments. Mr. Stevenson labours
under one two disadvantages in his authorship. In the
first place, his style is crude, and in the second, he has,
he admits, a lack of incidents wherewith to sustain the
interest. This being the case, why write at all ? Some
parts of the book are positively unreadable, because
the author, in addition to groaning beneath the disabil-
ities wo have mentioned has exercised such extremecau-
tion in the mention of persons and places, that the
reader is apt, when coming upon so many initials and
blanks, to lose himself in a maze of conjecture. Mr.
Stevenson’s adventures are very mild and all through the
book he is eternally watching “ Johnny cakes browning
on the glowing embers” or “boilinghis enormous quart.”
Some of the scenes, too, are ridiculously overdrawn.
In one of these highly-colored pictures the author has
a bushman approaching a road-side public-house,
virtuously resolving to pass it. But the fates are
against him, for
“ The Lynx-eyed Dan has |seen him from afar, and
long before the unhappy man gets near the house,
Dan’s plans are laid and in active operation. Under
the deep shady verandah, Dan himself, arrayed in a
bright scarlet coat, marches up and down playing a
comet, an attendant ostler thumps a drum, while two
or three figures in (gauzy garments (sic) with flowing
locks and rosy cheeks, either dance to the music or lie
in attitudes of abandonment, upon couches placed for
the purpose. The sound of the music, the dancing
girls, the cool verandah, and, above all, the open door
of the bar, through which can be seen rows of bright,
tempting bottles, are too much for the now tired and
thirsty traveller. His eye catches Dan’s as he passes,
and from that moment Ms fate is sealed.”
Here our author is at his best. In other parts his
style is execrable. He alladestto a fire “ upon which Ms
snakesMp was soon frizzling.’ He eats the snake—he
is always eating—picks the bones, and, for all we know,
swallows the skin. Another thing he is always doing
is, drawing his revolver, and he likewise frequently
“hangs his saddle upon a tree.” And, what is more
remarkable, he lives through it all; lives to exclaim,
as he smokes Ms after-dinner pipe on Ms verandah,”
“when the glorious moon” (poormoon, they’re always
at her!) “ is soaring Mgh in the heavens," “what a
splendid mght tMs would be for moonlighting.” It is
evident therefore that Mr. James Stevenson is an
enthusiast. We hope, however, that he is a better
bushman than he is an author, and that next time he
writes he’ll let us know in what part of Bananland
“ Lynx-eyed Dan " and the houris reside.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Ajax” (Braidwood): Greatly obliged for your
exertions on our behalf. Your copy most acceptable.
“O.” (Mackay): First-rate “X.Y.Z.”: Rather trivial.
Were he, say a Minister, or even a plain M.P., it might
be worth passing notice “W. J. B.”: Will gladly
print lines which indeed “ smack of the soil."
“A. Kinkel”: Your poem, “ The Suicide,” is indeed
lovely, but we haven’t space for it. We’re glad to notice
that at least one poet has got on the right track at last.
“Headache”: Thanks "Sam B." : Very much
obliged. Still going up “Gleaner”: Most accept-
able “ H.E. J.” : Received your extract. It “ will
keep.” “ Henry Simpson ”: Thanks; very interest-
ing “ A., M., J., and C.” : We’ve already made more
than one allusion to the matter “ W.R.”: Received.
Next week, perhaps “ Haughton Gap ” (Bowen) :
We don’t understand your remarks re drovers
“ C.G.M.G.” : Capital “J.T.D.": If asked to do so,
we’ll gladly make the correction. However, in our
opinion, it will be better to say nothing about it
“A Citizen" (Brisbane) : Received “R.C.” : Next
issue “ Alligator” (Charters Towers): Most of your
remarks are too “ hot.” What would at the Towers be
a mere innocent pleasantry, is down here a hanging
matter “W.J.T.": A little too rough—don’t yon
think so? “George J.” : No doubt the insertion of
S paragraph would “ oblige you,” but it would pro-
cost us £100,000,000 “Guepe”: Declined:
writing illegible “ Anon.” (Maitland) : Mean-
ingless, vulgar personalities “ M. 8.5.” ; Very enter-
taining, no doubt, to the individual’s friends ; hardly so
to the general public “J. O’Brien,” (Merino): We
must decline —especially in view of the fact that you
only undertake to perform an obvious duty on condition
that a large sum be paid you “ E.H.D.” : For the
truth of statements of the kind a better guarantee is
required than a practically anonymous letter “ Sec.
Railway CC.”; You should send in short reports of
matches. We now have to hold over your communica-
tion “ Church ” : Your minister should take action.
“ G.E.M.”: Nothing in it “Mosquito”: He’ll die of
his own accord.
INTAGLIOS.
Identity.
Somewhere, in desolate wind-swept space.
In twilight-land, in No-man’s-land,
Two hurrying Shapes met face to face.
And bade each other stand.
“ And who are you ?” cried one, a-gape.
Shuddering in the gleaming light.
“ Iknow not," said the second Shape,
“ I only died last night 1”
The Telegraph Operator.
She sits within her narrow cell,
A jewel worth a fairer setting;
And I —l linger for a spell.
My urgent telegram forgetting.
I love the sounder’s cheery call;
I love to watch the dimples playing
About her fingers, white and small —
I wonder what that hand is saying.
I love to dream of other years,
Of blessings that perhaps await her.
Of sweet eyes never dimmed by tears.
I love—l love the operator!
Out of the Window.
Out at the window she leaned and laughed,
A girl’s laugh, idle, and foolish and sweet—
Foolish, and idle, it dropped like a call.
Into the crowded, noisy street.
Up he glanced at the glancing face,
Who had caught the laugh as it fluttered and fell
And eye to eye for a moment there
They held each other as if by a spell.
All in a moment passing there.
And into her idle, empty day.
All in that moment something new
Suddenly seemed to find its way.
All through and through the clamorous hours
That made his clamorous, busy day,
A girl’s laugh, idle, and foolish, and sweet.
Into every bargain found its way.
And through and through the crowd of the streets.
At every window in passing by.
He looked a moment, and seemed to see
A pair of eyes like the morning sky.
A Character at the Fancy Ball.
“ Miss appeared as The Bulletin.”-
—Daily paper.
'Mid glistening of dresses, and gleaming of tresses.
Where thickest of press is, as couples fly round.
One lady entrancing divinely is dancing.
Her feather feet glancing to strains of sweet sound.
There are blonde and brunette girls, in flaxen and jet
eurls.
And many a pet whirls deliciously well;
But yet, best by far there, of all that there are there.
The loveliest star there is The Bulletin belle.
Of all in that spaceful, that sweet, winsome face, full
Of bright smiles—that graceful, symmetrical form—
That dark belle—is making most mischief, and breaking
Most hearts, and is taking whole dozens by storm.
By all eyes admired, in plain black attired.
What feelings are fired, I scarce need to tell.
Though others are fair, too, the best—this I’ll swear
to—
For beauty and vert u is The Bulletin belle.
No black eyes are brighter, no fairy feet lighter.
No snowy arms whiter, in all the gay throng ;
So sweetly impassioned, so daintily fashioned—
They’d make a saint rash and inclined to “go wrong.’*
Each mirror’s reflection bespeaks a perfection
That in recollection must evermore dwell;
Though beauty leaves traces on many fair faces,
i The Queen of the place is The Bulletin belle.
The figures cease flying, the sweethearts stop sighing.
The music is dying away in the dome,
The rainbow hues blended in blazonry splendid.
All fade; the ball’s ended; the guests have gone
home.
The pale stars give warning that daylight is dawning.
The sober grey morning disperses the spell.
But one fair creation still claims admiration—
The latest sensation— The Bulletin belle.
A.F.
Sydney, April 9,1881.


BRIEF MENTION.
The only comic paper—the D stress.
Same trouble —Old Ireland and New Ireland.
Laycock was driven by Want to the Town Hall.
The side show of Cole’s circus holds 800—fools.
Waterhouse and the Prince of Wales were first
at the boat-race.
Tamworth is to have a third newspaper. More
gall for Barrack-street.
Walker is to the fore. We have Walker’s
whisky and Walker, P.B.
At a certain tea meeting, at Botany recently, a
table was provided for the big eaters—or rather the big
wigs.
It doesn’t look well to see a minister of the
Gospel drunk and incapable and dependent on the
friendly arm of a parishioner.
The Dubbo Dispatch calls Mr. Abbott, M.P.
for Gunnedah, a “ snappish little attorney." There is
“ clapper-clawing” looming in the distance.
2649 country papers have, during the last
fortnight, published a par. commencing as follows: —
“ The Duke of Manchester, replying to the toast of his
health, is reported to have said—” See what it is to be
adnke!
“ Gongh-town,” the new temperance city, ought
to be quite a pleasant place to live in. One of the
streets is to be called “ Roseby-street.” A greater
inducement for residence in the liquorless spot could
hardly have been offered. But we look in vain as yet
for “ Abigail-avenne ” or “ Tombstone-square.”
Mr. D. C. F. Moodie, of A. T. Clark whipping
notoriety, was hissed off the platform by the electors
of East Adelaide, when offering himself as a candidate
for Parliament. “ Blue blood ” is evidently at a dis-
count in the floury metropolis. The time has arrived
when Duncan Francis Campbell will have to go back to
his Ma.
The Sydney Muffin Harrowee, in a recent
Paris letter, speaks of Gambetta as taking the Presiden-
tial fauteil (sic) ! There is a fair sprinkling of Gallic
words and phrases in this unique epistle, but not the
slightest attempt at accentuation, &c., from beginning
to end 1! The ticket for the Herald : “ E.C. ong parley
fransy,"
We read this “ original” par. with much interest
in the Western Grazier : —•* Peter Campbell has gone
700 miles on horseback bush-missionising. . Peter is
reported well. Nothing is said about the horse.” We
should have perused it with even greater interest,
though, had we not written it in The Bulletin two
months ago.
A keen satirist writes to the Morning Mac. as
follows: “ Sir, —Permit me through the valuable
columns of pour widely circulated journal to call atten-
tion to the abominable practice of persons smoking on
tram cars.” This is too bad I We sometimes have our
little joke at the expense of the Little Exile, but we
never go as far as this.
There is a brass band about to be started in
Morpeth. The association have already got together
the big drum, a trombone, and a " snake." Now, how-
ever, since the amateurs have began practising with
these musical earthquakes, the townspeople con-
template calling a meeting, with a view of inducing the
band committee to return their subscriptions.
The Adelaide Bulletin is unhappy. In
endeavouring to reply to a letter styled “Citizen,”
which appeared in the Register, recommending that a
public meeting be held to suppress Carroll’s rag, the
writer says :—“ We are often unable to pierce the
mystery of initials which accompanies (sic) what appear
to us to be harmless, though frequently witless, squibs."
Skeffington’s grammar is unlike wine. It doesn’t im-
prove with age.
We desire to draw the attention of persons who
have occasion to pass the old burial ground near Bel-
more Park to the fact that the ghosts are in the habit of
getting up on the wall and expectorating tin-tag tobacco
J’nice over all who come within easy range of them—at
east if the ghosts don’t do so their visitors do. Some
night they will accidently spit on a policeman’s clean
clothes, and then a couple of skeletons will be hauled
off for “ righteous conduct."
The other afternoon, on Manly Beach, a very
short gentleman was walking with a very tall lady.
The lady looked bored and the gentleman nervous.
Suddenly the latter plucked up spirit and said some-
thing. On this the lady unbent —literally—and became
wreathed in smiles, and impressed her lips upon the
crown of his bell-topper—she couldn’t bend any further
down. The wedding will come off shortly, and so will
the crape off the lover’s hat.
We have received two yards of “copy,” of
which the following forms the opening par.:—The
situation of a Parliamentary candidate is under circum-
stances by no means an enviable (sic), but a very
ungrateful one (sic). The matter is not only connected
with expenses—the unsuccessful candidate is submitted
(sic) to public opinion as well as comment." Will the
writer kindly send round a hearse for the remains, with
an explanation inside telling us what it is about.
Granny informs ns that, “ William Skinner
pleaded not guilty to the charge of stealing from the
person of Bryan M'Ardill a watch and chain, and £ll in
money, at Sydney, on February 28. The evidence
showed that on the morning in question the prosecutor,
who was under the influence of drink, fell asleep in
Hyde Park, and on awaking, some hours later, he missed
his watch and the money, and when arrested the former
was found in his possession. The jury retired to con-
sider their verdict,” &c., &c.
In a recent nnmber of the Threepenny
Eubicon, the Rambler (who will eventually be
our death! says, in allusion to the assassination of the
Czar :—“ As no paper is published in England on Sun-
day night, it thus appears that the news was made
known in Australia at least four or five hours before it
could be read by the public at home. This is very
gratifying, as proving how soon we could be made ac-
quainted with any important news from home," Very
gratifying, indeed; especially to the Czar.
In writing of some people he objects to the
Archbishop thus writes in the Distress : —“Like
badly broken horses, they shy at the sight of religion in
the road, and are willing to be led or driven in any
direction, except in the one in which religion is to be
found." Now, if his Grace had not written this, we
should be inclined to call it unmitigated rot. As it is,
however, we will content ourselves with reminding Dr.
Vaughan that no horses, broken or unbroken, would
shy at religion in the road —unless, indeed, it were
represented by a reverend newspaper proprietor armed
with a long subscription-list.
“ Some glorious revelations,” remarks our Mel-
bourne correspondent “ Shanghai,” “ are to be made in
the Lament will case. The ways and means of the
Spiritualistic portion of onr community are to be ex-
posed to the light of day, and there are some queer
ways amongst them, too. Several prominent citizens
will figure as ‘ temporarily insane,’ —amongst them a
leading litterateur, a judge, a tank manager, several
mercantile men, two clergymen, and four doctors—
a nice all-round mixture, eh ? No wonder ‘ magnetic-
healers ’ attract, when a mass of adipose tissue like
Mrs. Jackson befooled so many presumably sensible
people! ’’
The Cobar and Louth Herald has evidently
designs upon our reason. In a leader labelled “Ourselves,”
it says—“We have to request the indulgence of sub-
scribers for our non-appearance last week, and the
indifferent form in which this issue is presented. A
severe indisposition confined our principal compositor
and machinist to his bed.” There’s nothing like being
frank, and if frankness is appreciated in Cobar, the resi-
dents ought to club together and buy a mule for the
editor. We are sorry for the principal compositor and
machinist, he must indeed be invaluable. All we
wonder is that he is of such gigantic importance to the
Cobar Herald, that one bed can hold him.
A new club has been started in Maitland.
Drinks, price 2d. They are all in it.
There are 8000 Good Templars in New South
Wales. No wonder old Tombstone always slides in !
The Gwydir Dispatch has “ Sydney Notes ”
by “ Venus." As might have been expected, there is
not much of address about the author.
At it again ! The Nooze now calls it, in job
type, “ Infernal attempt to murder.” We call it “In-
fernal attempt to sensate.” Eh, Alfred !
The Morning Mackay has a long sub-leader
pointing out the disinterestedness of Messrs. Mason
Brothers in offering the Walker’s whisky prize. How
do you whistle in print P
During the last ten days there 'have been all
over the colonies, more murders, suicides,sudden deaths,
and fatal accidents, than were recorded for the previous
six months. That comet!
Last Friday, a Balmain publican went into a
local tobacconist, and purchased two pounds of plug
tobacco. Since then his rum has been —in a double
sense—a drug in the market.
The Evening Crash has the following:—
“ Pietermaritz, February 28, 9.10 a.m. There is now no
doubt respecting General Colley’s health (sic). He was
shot through the head at the close of the engagement.”
Woa Emma!
The Cooma Express, in speaking of the late
William Brown, calls him “that unfortune man.” We
should have thought that Express could have found a
better expression. But we suppose they are still in a
state of Cooma up there.
Melbourne Punch this week has a pictorial
sketch entitled “ Stop Her! or, the latest adaptation
of the Woods’ Brake.” and representing Mr. Woods in
the act of bringing this globe to a standstill by means
his wonderful invention.
We take the following from a paper whose name
wo conceal for obvious reasons:—“ Wilson seemed to
have a mania for swallowing flying things. On one occa-
sion he caught a green snake more than a foot long and
swallowed it alive. At another time he caught a black
snake five feet long, cut it open, took out its heart and
swallowed it while pulsating. At the time he swallowed
the frog, the first time he swallowed it, his frogship not
liking his quarters, turned round and came back. It
was not until the second or third time he swallowed it
that he succeeded in imprisoning him in his stomach.”
This is awful. We shall hardly dare to open the next
issue of that paper; for it’s about ten to one we don’t
read the frog escaped once again, and this time swal-
lowed the man.
It’s said that before the Victorian Police Com-
mission closes its sittings some interesting, not to say
startling, revelations will be made. These will contain
something more interesting than can even be included
within “from pitch and toss to manslaughter.”
Forgeries, burglaries, infanticides and murders —legal
and otherwise—will, so goes the story, form the bases
of tales as yet unpublished. And, by the way, while the
Commission is about its pleasant duties, would it not
be well to learn from those in a position to speak
authoritatively to what extent gambling among these
most highly select of Southern social circles is carried on,
and the modus operandi. Victorians might then know
what kind of moral atmosphere the crime de la creme of
the upper ten live in.
The only successful opposition to the Govern-
ment during last session arose from the desire of Mr.
Deane to retain the name of “ Wascoe” to his platform
on the Western line, and he now has effectually
“wooden-walled” the Government. The railway
authorities changed the name of the Wascoe Station to
“ Blaxland.” Mr. Deane objected, but they refused to
return to the old name, whereupon he fixed the name
“Wascoe” in a more conspicuous place than that in
which “ Blaxland” had been put. The authorities then
increased the size of their board, whereupon Mr. Deane
doubled the dimensions of his. And so the fun goes on.
The issue of the contest, whatever it may be, will go to
show that—all other things being equal—he who ad-
vertises most succeeds best.
Wicked people in Melbourne say that the toast
of the medical profession is the “ Yan Yean mixture."
“ Of course you’re libel to make mistakes,” said
the reporter to the new editor of the Evening Shandt.
The funny man in The Australasian calls the
Federal Australian “ the new organ of the pork-
and-beans interest," and carps at its Latin.
A plague of fleas infests all the coast districts of
the colony whether from the recent hot weather
here or the bad times in Victoria it is impossible to say.
The Mudgee Giraffe has come out with a
new story—“ The Smuggler’s Mystery," a “ Tale of
Love and Danger," this time; but he hasn’t the
“ front" to put his name to it.
A gem from the Adelaide Carroll : —“ David
R —d wears too (sic) pairs of spectacles.” This sort of
spelling runs all through the paper, and the above is a
brilliant specimen of the “ humour of it."
An old resident of Blackall says that Governor
Macquane could not well have presented Leichhardt
with a telescope, as he left the colony before the ex-
plorer was born. If this be the case, the plot thickens.
A correspondent says the gas is so bad that he
can’t read the names of the streets upon the lamp
posts. This item was posted on Sunday, reaching us
on Monday morning. Could it have been a “ Saturday
night’s experience ?’’ A-hem I
When the wife of a certain country lawyer
attends the floating baths with her monkey and poodle,
the public don’t bathe until the turn of the tide. When
asked the reason, they maintain a “dogged" silence.
The reason of this is, of course, ape-parrent.
According to the Weekly Rubicon of the
9th inst., the “ tender of A. M. Hunt & Co. has been ac-
cepted for supplying prisoners to the Goulbum gaol."
It’s really wonderful the manner in which the clerical
journals manage to obtain official information.
From the Inveeell Bond “ The editor of
the Sydney Bulletin says the reason why the Times
man is down upon him is patent to all—
* He's jealous of me
’Cause I’m at the top of the tree.’ ”
We never said anything of the sort; nor have we
thought of him in connection with a tree at all. As he
has introduced the subject, however, we may as well
inform the man of Inverell that we hold him in this
much admiration —that we should consider him a vast
embellishment to any tree—especially a family tree.
Old Woolly Bear, of Eoley Poley Plains,
recently invited a number of ladies—for the first time
in his life—to visit his station. Woolly Bear was a
bachelor, and a primitive old cuss to boot. " Anything
would do him," and his morning ablutions, when he did
wash, used to be performed in an old tin dish. But
when ladies were coming Woolly Bear felt called on to
send Jerry, the blackfellow, to a married station to
borrow a washing-basin. Whilst Jerry was away on
his errand the lady visitors arrived, and having removed
their travelling dresses, commenced to take things easy
under the verandah until dinner time. They were just
seated when Jerry was seen approaching at a hand
gallop, holding the utensil aloft and tapping it on his
head as he drew near, and shouting at the top of his
voice, “Me got nm me got um, billy belonging to white
ginl”
In a recent lecture, that Cyril who has such a
large place in our hearts, claimed Charles Dickens as a
Spiritualist. We were sceptical at the time he made
this assertion, but now we are disposed to believe him.
The way Mr. Dickens got converted was this :—He once
attended a Spiritualist seance, when the spirit of Wil-
liam Shakespeare was invoked. The bard answered
promptly. Mr. Dickens was requested to question the
spirit. “ Are you the spirit of William Shakespeare ?’’
asked the great novelist. “ I are," was the emphatic
reply. “I’m quite satisfied,” remarked Mr. Dickens,
taking up his hat; “wonderful phenomenon!” Records
—cheering records of such conversions—must be emi-
nently satisfactory to those who rally round the banner
of Bowie. We'll see if we can’t hunt up a few more. If
we do, we will make a point of sending them along with
our compliments and a blanck subscription form.
WOMAN ITEMS.
End of a miss-spent life —Dying an old maid.
Maiden lady’s aphorism—“ Where singleness is
bliss 'tis folly to be wives.”
The New Yokk Herald impressively warns
American heiresses against marrying broken-down
English noblemen.
What is it in which a woman finds the greatest
satisfaction?” “Her beanty.” “No; the other
woman’s lack of it.”
His name is now Mr. Ashmead Burdett-Contts
Bartlett but probably the blushing bride calls him
“ tootsy-wootsey," or “ sweetness.”
The Duchess of Connaught was, according to
? accounts, subpoenad as a witness in a libel suit
v iah was to come before the London courts.
The hair of the red-headed girl is transmuted
to auburn or golden when she becomes a young lady;
the red-headed boy remains red-headed as long as he
lives.
Free passes by rail are in future to be granted
to all lady teachers under the Council of Education
who may wish during any vacation to return to their
homes.
Her name used to be “ Bessie,” but now they
call her “ Lily,” because Solomon in all his glory
“wasn’t a patch on her.” It’s quite unnecessary to
state that she doesn’t toil.
The Somerville Club, for women exclusively,
opened in London, March 1, with 1200 members ranking
from seamstresses to peeressses. It is intended es-
pecially for the benefit of respectable poor women.
About twelve months after marriage is the most
trying period in the whole cycle of conjugal experience.
At that time a man is comparatively tired of the
molasses of matrimony, and hasn’t grown accustomed
to the vinegar.
They had been at the fancy ball, where she had
recognized him at once. “Was it the loud beating of
my heart, my darling, that told you I was near?”
murmured he. “ Oh, no," she replied, " I recognized
your crooked legs.”
The Princess Louise has been skating a great
deal in London this winter, and people will now under-
stand why her health has not perceptibly improved. All
doctors agree that a person who maintains a sitting pos-
ture three-fourths of his or her time can never be in ro-
bust health.
At Newcastle, the other day, a lady having heard
that the wife of the bishop intended calling on ner, in-
structed the “ lady-help ” as to how the visitor was to
be ushered in. In due course the caller came, and was
announced bj Biddy as “ Please mum, the lady you was
expecting."
The Empress of Austria, who hunts regularly
every season in England and Ireland, gave Lord Com-
bermere £5OO as the rent of his house and stables, in
Cheshire, for six weeks from the middle of February.
The Empress always brings with her from Austria a
very large suite of indoor and outdoor servants and
about forty horses.
“ The whisper of a beautiful woman,” says
balzac, “ can be heard further than the loudest call of
duty.” But the man who is creeping up stairs with his
boots off at two o’clock a.m., and hears the whisper of
his wife as she leans over the bannisters in the dark-
ness, doesn’t think ot her beauty. His chief thought
is how much he would like to exchange his boots for a
pair of wings.
A Miss Mary Kelly, of Tumut, visited a Catholic
Bazaar in the district, and was so amused at something
which occurred there, that on her return to her friends,
while laughing heartily at the event, she dislocated her
jaw, and her laughter was suddenly turned into grief
because she could not close her mouth. If ladies in
general would only go to bazaars I When men visit
such places they usually weep.
“ I want a new dress !” “ But, bless my soul,
this is the fourth new dress you’ve wanted in two
months.” “Very well, very well; your heartlessness
will kill me, and then you’ll see if the new dress I’ll
want then—plain white with satin facings to match the
lining of the coffin—wont cost a deal more,” “It may,
my love, but it will be cheaper in the long run—you’ll
never want another!" “ Wretch.”
In New Zealand there is a female dentist whom
all the gentlemen patronise. When she puts her arm
round the neck of a patient and caresses his jaw for the
offending member, the sensation is about as nice as they
make ’em. One young man has become hopelessly in-
fatuated with her. Consequently he has’nt a tooth in
his head. She has pulled every blessed one of them and
made him two new sets and pulled them too.
Pour etre belle il faut:
Trois choses blanches: La peau, les dents, les mains.
Trois choses courtes: Les jupes, les oreilles et—la
langue.
Trois choses noires: Les yeux, les sourcils et—les cils.
Trois choses longues : La taille, les cheveux, les mains.
Trois choses petites: Le nez, la tete, les pieds.
Trois choses rondes: Le bras, la jatnbe et—la dot.
A very singular story is going the rounds in
Berlin and Paris, about Count Herbert, son of Bismarck,
and a beautiful Princess. The Count left Berlin sud-
denly, the other day, as it was supposed, on a diplomatic
mission ; at the same time, however, the Princess dis-
appeared also, and her husband obtained permission to
retire into private life. The detectives have just dis-
covered the fugitives in Italy. Although the Iron
Prince has given Count Herbert positive orders to come
home, the latter refuses to comply.
It’s said that at the Bartlett-Coutts wedding
breakfast the youthful bridegroom expressed his
determination loyally to guard “the precious charge
confided to his care," and that the officiating clergyman
waxed quite poetical over a union which he declared to
be in every way a suitable and promising one. All the
legal difficulties were settled before the wedding-day,
and the marriage settlement, which is a remarkable
legal document, contains several clauses dealing with
the possibility of little Bartletts. Oh, Baroness!
We cut the following from the N. Y. Clipper
of February 26:—“A fortune for a face. £2OOO pre-
mium for the loveliest lady in the land. Adam Fore-
pangh, proprietor of the largest show in the world,
desires to secure the services for thirty weeks the
coming Spring and Summer of the handsomest woman
living. To that end he offers a premium of £2OOO, pay-
able in pro rata weekly instalments, to the lady contes-
tant who shall be adjudged the most beautiful candi-
date. All applicants must forward photographs and
full address. All communications strictly confidential.
The fortunate lady will be required to appear daily in a
great pageant, and, as beauty and not talent is required
good looks alone will secure the prize. No personal
applications or interviews will be granted. No letters
answered. No photographs returned. All photographs
must be in hand March 31. Address, Chas. H. Day,
Agent. Great Forepangh Show, 111 and 113 N. Broad-
street, Philadelphia, Pa.” In other words, Adam,
though he does’nt put it in that way, offers a premium
of £2OOO for the greatest procurable amount of beauty
combined with the greatest imaginable amount of im-
pudence.
When Charles Dickens had decided to write
“A Tale of Two Cities,” knowing that Carlyle had
made special studies for his “ French Revolution,” he
asked the latter to send him a few books worth con-
sulting. Judge of his surprise when a large van drove
up to the door and discharged a load of volumes, in five
or six languages. This was Carlyle’s notion of a few
books. Another anecdote is told of the Scotch image-
breaker. A ship-owner, a fellow-countryman, went to
call upon him, and said with fervor and feeling: “ I
have come to see you, Mr. Carlyle, to tell you that I
admire and honor you; that I have built a ship, and
named it after you on account of the good you have
done in the world.” “ Then,” quoth the author, with
his marked accent: “ I don’t balieve you, maun! I
never did ony gude in the warld ! Naebody ever did
ony gude in the warld! Thar is nae gude in the
warld!" William Black, the novelist, once called on
Carlyle, and, after a little conversation, the philosopher
remarked: “You know Seootland very well, I see. I’ve
read yoiir novels with pleasure. They’re vary amusing,
vary. But when are ye goin’ to do some wark—when
are ye goin’ to write some real books —maun ? ”
THE WHIRLIGIG OF TIME.
Hon. AND REV. HENET P- (log.) ; “You know, beloved brethren, that it is
not so long since Forster was rejected at East Sydney becanse he was a secularist, and I
was returned because I was a denominationalist. Now, beloved brethren, you see me a
secularist, and Forster unchanged. Now, beloved brethren, you see the little pea—and
again you don’t see it, because it’s under the thimble. Now, beloved brethren, though
once a chartist, and a believer in the Gospel according to Tom Paine, I’m now a holy
man, and against the opening of Sunday museums—because, beloved brethren,” &c.


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Spinningdale’s pot will boil over.
Kush, the sculler, won ,£5OO on the Barber.
Tom Lane, the well-known English pugilist, is
dead.
The white flags were not wanted—they were nofc
used once.
Strathearn’s luck has changed; he now fails to
get a place.
W. C. Willmett, one of the Townsville peds.,ia
now in Sydney.
The Laycock subscription-list will remain open
until the 20th April.
Hesperian is heavily backed by the stable to
win the Sydney Cup. *
The Bathurst Tattersall’s Eaces will come off on
the 27th and 28th April.
The Victorian Coursing Clnb concluded a suc-
cessful meeting on Saturday.
The Bathurst races came off on Wednesday and
Thursday, the 27th and 28th April.
Is it to be another contest between Progress and
Grand Flaneur at the altered weights ?
John Keen defeated David Stanton in a 50-mile
bicycling match, at the Marble Bink, England.
Both the Eight-oared crews discarded the
rowlocks, and rowed on the old-fashioned poppets.
A portrait and biography of the late Mr. James
Punch appear in the New York Clipper of Feb. 26.
Wandering Jew will have a lot to say in some of
the handicaps in the forthcoming Bandwick meeting.
Bonnor and Murdoch have returned to Sydney.
The latter says he never had any intention of leaving
the city.
The Glebe Bowing Clnb have decided that their
annual ball shall take place about the end of May, in
the Glebe Town Hall.
The Melbourne Cricket Club have it in contem-
plation to erect a new and handsome pavilion on their
ground at a cost of £3OOO.
Leaving the Barber out, the finish for the
Hawkesbury Autumn Handicap was a tribute to the
correctness of the handicap.
The Victorian cricketers were entertained at
luncheon by the Mayor of Adelaide previous to their
departure in the South Australian.
Lord Burghleycame into the betting again just
before the start for the Hawkesbury Handicap. A
chance was thus given for hedging.
At the Goulburn Annual Show, Mr. Faithful
treated the spectators to a display of the trotting
powers of his splendid imported horse, Ajax.
The Victorian Eacing Club appealed against
the assesment of the racecourse at Flemington, and the
Judge reduced it from £2OOO to £350 annually.
, Tattersall’s Monster Consultation No. 2 is
announced, the first one having been very successful.
Jones’ No. 3 Consultation is also on the board.
A well-known and popular barrister in the
University Club has an original opinion as to what con-
stitutes consent in the rule relating to substitutes.
The eleventh annual meeting of the Sydney
Bowing Club will be held on Wednesday, April 26, to
receive the annual report and elect officers for the ensu-
ing year.
The Grafton Eegatta Committee have decided
that a special invitation be sent to Sir Henry Parkes
and the Cabinet, to be present at the forthcoming
regatta.
Second Warwicks got 8 runs against an eleven
from the Herald Office. In the previous match the
Warwicks lost four wickets for 150 runs. Such is
cricket!
The Barcoo Eacing Club hold their annual
meeting on the 6th and 7th July next. Ten events, and
prize money to the amount of 660 sovs. Good for the
Barcoo!
The Two Tear Old Plate, 5 furlongs, was done
by Stilton ip Im. 2 4-10th sec. This is the fastest
official time in the world for that distance, but is it the
most correct ?
The Victorian team of polo-players play a match
against the South Australians on the 16th April. The
Victorians consist of A. Chimside, E. Chirnside, B.
Culvert, and P. Hood.
The rural and city police of Hobart are organiz-
ing a boat-race. Betting ought to be brisk on the event,
because whatever odds be offered the policemen cannot
resist the opportunity of taking them up.
The closing day of the season for the Eoyal
Sydney Yacht Squadron, has been fixed for Saturday, 23rd
April. A committee has been appointed to report upon
the advisableness of building a club-house.
Notwithstanding that the Scotch giant, Duncan
Boss, easily tossed James O. Daly in the wrestling
arena, and Edwin Bibby in turn laid the giant low, Daly
has posted money that he can throw Bibby.
A good deal of dissatisfaction was expressed by
some of the Bathurst horse-owners when it became
known that Mr. Scarr was not to handicap the horses
for the forthcoming Bathurst Annual Eaces.
The Committee of the Northern Jockey Club
have decided to put more sand on the racecourse, as
the ground is getting into bad order. Mr. Quinton has
been appointed handicapper, in lien of Mr. Scarr.
Tom Nunn is introducing a new style of slow
bowling. The ball reaches the batsman on the second
hop, and requires a deal of watching. He did not get a
wicket, but few runs were scored off the “nunners.”
Having lost three out of four races, our men
have come to the conclusion that the smooth water of
the Yarra and the Saltwater is more favourable for
eight-oar rowing than the lumpy water of Port Jack-
son.
The Campbelltown Cricket Club sent the Men-
angle Cricket Club three challenges, the last of which
was accepted. .On the appointed day the Menangleites
went to the ground, but only four of the Campbell-
tonians turned up.
According to the latest American accounts, Mr.
Charles Eeed is the gentleman under whose wing
Trickett visits America. Ned was to bring his boats
over, and commence training on Saratoga Lake as soon
as the ice disappeared.
A race of 200 yards was run in the Gardens at
Brisbane on Saturday, between Pedley and Julian, for
£25 a side. Julian, who bails from this colony, won by
four yards. IDoO spectators were present, and a good
deal of money changed hands.
Letters have been forwarded to the two racing
clubs at Adelaide, signed by some Melbourne owners
and bookmakers, stating that they will not run then-
horses or bet on the Adelaide meeting where the totali-
sator is used. More boycotting!
The weights at the start of the Eight-oar Eace
were—Victoria 95st. 101 b., New South Wales 965 t.; the
Victorians were thus lighter by 41b. By the race, they
gained one hundred and fifty pounds, and the N.S.W.
crew became much lighter—in pocket.
The agent of Shaw and Lilly white’s cricket team
writes to the Queensland Cricket Association, stating
the terms on which the team will play a match each at
Brisbane and Toowoomba. The association wants the
support of the public to enable them to comply.
The first trials of the season in connection with
the New South Wales Coursing Club took place at
Woodstock on Thursday last. There were about twenty
courses altogether and only two kills, the day being st>
oppressively hot that the horses had a considerable ad-
vantage over the dogs.
The aquatic sports on Thursday last, in connec-
tion with the St. Leonards’ Swimming Club, at Cavill’s
baths. Lavender Bay, were very successfully carried
out. The 1000 yards race, for a void medal and the
captaincy of the Club, was won by Ernest Cavill, with
Mr. Germain second; time 22min.
Laycock, at the Town Hall, stated that he was
fflad to hear that a liberal prize, similar to the Hop-
bitters trophy was being offered here. He would be
happy to do anything in his power to make the contest
attractive. “ Carry it away *’ roared a voice from the
crowd amidst laughter and applause.
At a meeting at Oberon on Thursday, it was
decided to hold races on Queen’s Birthday. A sub-
scription list was opened and a large sum collected.
Another meeting is to be held on Saturday, when a
committee will be appointed to carry out the arrange-
ments. Mr. B. Lynn has been appointed secretary pso
tern.
Mr. Charles Price, the ten-mile champion of
England, has, after a half-dozen fruitless attempts to
break Mr. P. J. McDonald’s three-mile record, suc-
ceeded in lowering it to 15min. 32isec. The best record
in England is 11 rain. 32sec , made by Jack White, in his
great ten-mile run. The previous American record was
lomin. 38isec.
In the walking match, at New York, between
Holske and Driscoll, the former, who was over a minnte
behind his antagonist, gave up at 21 miles, alleging
that somebody had hurt him by “sliging ’arf a brick.”
Driscoll, with the umpire’s consent, withdrew from the
1 track and was declared the winner after covering 23
miles in 3h. 21m. 495.
William Elliott, ex-champion sculler of England,
is bankrupt. Since he lost the championship of
England, he has been considered a failure as a sculler,
and now to have failed in business as well as in sculling
is a severe blow to him. His liabilities are about £6OO,
and his assets small. He had been keeping the Fox and
Lamb Inn, at Neweastle-on-Tyne.
Hanlan’s time in the championship race, 25min.
41sec., was not bad when we consider the condition of
the weather. It was cold and misty, and there was but
little tide to help the scullers. In his match with
Trickett over the same course, four miles and three
furlongs, Hanlan’s time was 26tnin. 12sec. The course
has been rowed in less than 23min.
The Dauntless Rowing Club, of New York, send
an eight-oar crew to next Henley regatta. In the crew
will be at least five of the six men who have gained such
brilliant successes for their club in the States. They
will row in a Waters’s paper shell, 58ft. long, 22in. wide,
and 1901 b. weight. It is a little narrow, but about the
same width as the craft used by the six.
Before leaving Adelaide the Victorian Eleven
played a one-day match with 18 of the Stragglers Club,
who lately visited Victoria on a cricketing tour. The
Stragglers in their first innings made 120 and the Eleven
84. The Stragglers commenced their second innings,
and when the time expired had lost 10 wickets for 57.
The match was therefore considered drawn.
The closing trip of the season for the Prince
Alfred Yacht Club is to be held on Saturday April 33.
Commodore Want has invited the members of the club
to a lunch on that occasion. The hon. secretary (Mr.
V. Brown) has been authorised to confer with the secre-
tary of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron regarding
the removal of the rounding buoy at Manly.
Dennis Driscoll, the walker from Lynn, who
walked right away from Holske in the late bigrace,
and showed the New York people that he can travel
close on eight miles in the hour in a style beyond criti-
cism, was born in Croydon, England, Nov. 2, 1857. He
stands sft. 6iin. in height, and weighs 135 pounds when
in condition. His first appearance as a walker was in
1878.
The Manhattan Athletic Club were to hold a
special winter meeting at Madison Square Garden, N.
Y., for the purpose of sending that celebrated runner,
L. E. Meyers, to compete at the English championship
games at Lillie Bridge, in July next. Meyers, it was
announced, would on the occasion endeavour to beat
bis previous record of 3min. 18£sec. for two-thirds of a
mile.
M'Shane, the Victorian bowler, remained in
Adelaide after the late Intercolonial match, having ac-
cepted an engagement from the North Adelaide Club.
Palmer, it is_ reported, has also signed an agreement
with an Adelaide club. With these strong additions to
Adelaide cricket, which has vastly improved during the
past few seasons, it behoves both Sydney and Melbourne
to look to their laurels, as the younger colony may very
shortly dispute them.
It was proposed that L. E. Myers, the cele-
brated sprinter, who leaves America for England on
21st May, should be accompanied by J. S. Voorhees, of
the Brooklyn Athletic Club, the well-known hurdle
racer and long jumper, and E. E. Merrill, the American
champion amateur walker. The Boston Herald says
that it would be found hard to beat this trio in England.
Mr. Merrill holds the best amateur record in the world
for one and ten miles.
At a city restaurant, the other evening, a well-
known foot-baller (or bawler) showed up as a “perfect
terror ” in the billiard line. Having undertaken to
play a man 500 up for £lO a side, he stripped himself to
the buff, and waded in. When his opponent’s score
stood at 400 he had onlr reached 210, but suddenly, as
if possessed by the spirit of Cook or Roberts, he started
a break, scored 150 right off, and soon after ran out.
His friend is quite satisfied now.
The address to Laycock is to be illuminated on
vellum, and enclosed in a richly guilt frame. Coloured
vignettes of Sydney Harbour, Shark Island, the start-
ing point off Putney, &c., will surmount it. The other
decorations will consist of the arms of England and
Australia, ' an allegorical figure of Father Thames, a
portrait of Laycock, surmounted with laurels bearing
the names of those with whom he has competed, beside
sculls and other aquatic emblems.
The point Deary raised on Saturday is a point and
no more. It was technically correct;, but it will be bad
for cricket if, instead of employing our batting and
bowling strength, we have to resort to finesse to win a
match. Geary is partly excusable on this occasion as
it was evidently a case of quid pro quo, the University
captain having refused the use of two fields at the com-
mencement of Saturday’s play. The “Universities” who
“ neither give nor take,” gave nothing, but had to take
an unexpected heating.
On the 12th January, Joseph Bennett, the
billiard champion of England, and Thomas Taylor met
at St. James's Hall, to decide their match for the
championship—looo up. The game was very interesting,
and was won by Bennett by 90 points. The time was 4
hours 42 minutes. In this match Bennett scored 125,
the largest score ever made in a championship match.
Cook made 121 in the match of Feb.. 4, 1874, against J.
Roberts, jtm., and 116 in the match of Nov. 21, 1871,
against Jas. Bennett. On the Bth Nov., 1880, Bennett
defeated Cook for the billiard championship, but he has
not yet defeated J. Roberts, jun. On Jan. 30, 1871,
Roberts defeated Bennett by 363 points.
Hanlan, accompanied by Wallace Ross and T. 8..
Whitefoot, editor of the London Sportsman, arrived at
New York, on Feb. 28, by the steamer City of Chester.
He was entertained by the Atalanta Boat Club at a
dinner at Delmonico’s. By the way, the Sportsman
Cup, which was to be presented to the champion at
Toronto, on Bth March, by Mr. Whitefoot, is valued at
£6OO. It is a large vase surmounted by a figure of
Neptune. It has an oval medallion on one side repre-
senting a boat race, and an inscription on the other
stating by whom and how it was presented, and at the
base are figures representing two oarsmen.
Mr. W. C. Little, J.P. (better known as “ Billy
Little”) of Thornborough, Northern Queensland, who
wired to Sydney £25, collected in his district for the
Laycock fund, is by universal consent the King of the
Hodgkinson, on account of his proficiency in
“northern language” and snake *nd nigger yams.
Billy is one of the oldest of far-northern pioneers, and
was among the prospectors of the now celebrated Day
Dawn claim, Charters Towers. He subsequently had a
share in the brilliant, but short-lived “ Flying Pig ”
reef, Thornborough, and, on behalf of his firm (Byers
and Little Bros.), has spent a big fortune in reefing.
He is a Moreton Bay native.
As the steamer Prince of Wales bore down on
the Governor’s launch, Nea, after the intercolonial
race, the latter boat made terrific efforts to get away—
the fireman, it is said, throwing his hair-oil into the
furnace in the vain attempt. The Private Secretary
went forward, and (officially, it is presumed) asked Mr.
Stoker to put on more speed. Anyhow, Mr. Bloxsome’s
intentions were promptly divined by the hundreds of
excited people on board the Prince of Wales, and when
the said stoker, by shaking his head and wildly waving
his hands, clearly indicated that he had no more hair-
oil to make a blaze with, a derisive shout of triumph—
that shout of triumph which had been pent up all
through the boat-race—arose, but was at once changed
into hearty bursts of cheering for his Excellency and
Lady Augustus Loftus.
Says a writer in the London Hefkbeb : “ Lay-
cock’s ignoring of the commonest rules of the best-boat
pulling—i.e., picking up the stern with the feet, and
easy go forward for next stroke—causes his craft to
bury aft, and, as a natural consequence, lift at the bows,
with the result that, instead of maintaining her travel
between the strokes, she stops all but dead. We would
wager that on Wednesday last, when he indulged in a
dash off against tide for a minute opposite the boat-
yards, his ship did not move six inches between the
time of the sculls leaving and taking the water again.
It is just the reverse with the Canadian. He has made
sculling such a study that to find fault with any portion
of his stroke is a sheer impossibility. On or against
tide is all one to him His craft keeps nearly the same
pace throughout, and travels as even as a li re.”
A match was commenced on Wednesday, and
concluded on Saturday on the Association ground,
between the Carlton and University Clubs, and resulted
in a victory for the Carltons by 22 runs The Carlton
score was U 7, of which T. Nunn made 46, Geary 28,
Wearne 17, H. Hall 13, and Bannerman and M'Crea 12
each. The University made 125 runs—Garrett con-
tributing 39, and Jones 35. During the innings of the
University on Saturday, Geary, the Carlton captain,
objected to Wright batting, as he had not fielded on
Wednesday—Pope then having supplied the place
The game was discontinued for some time, but after
some friendly argument and discussion of the legal
opinions offered, it was agreed to refer the matter for
decision to the Association, and the game was pro-
ceeded with—Wright bqjng allowed to bat under
protest.
The English University boat race was rowed
between 9 and 10 o’clock on Friday morning. The water
was perfectly smooth, and the weather fine, beautifully
bright sunshine prevailing. The betting had been 2to
1 on Oxford but at the start the Oxonians had increased
in favour and were freely backed at 3to 1. The captain
of the Oxford crew won the toss for choice of sides and
selected the Middlesex side of the river A good start
was effected, and the first mile proved a hard race
intense excitement prevailing. The Oxford crew
showed in front with a slight lead, but the Cantabs
stuck to their work manfully. After the first mile the
leaders drew away, and at Hammersmith Bridge held a
good lead At Barnes’ Bridge they had increased their
lead, and theu eventually came in easy winners by four
lengths. Time, 21m 56secs. The race was witnessed
by an immense concourse of spectators.
The Glebe Rowing Club fleet now numbers ten
boats, comprising four 4-oar string-test gigs and six
skiffs, valued at £220, independently of a good stock of
oirs and sculls, all of which are in excellent order.
Connected with the Club are also shower-baths, quoits,
dumb-bells, and boxing-gloves for the use of the mem-
bers. The roll numbers about seventy active and twelve
honorary members. The office-bearers for the ensuing
year are ak follow President, Sir. G. W. Allen ; Vice-
Presidents, W. Cary, T. J. Chapman, J. Young ; Cap-
tain, W. Bull, jun.; Hon. Secretary, S. J. Bull; Hon
Treasurer, H. Shute, jun.; Committee, Messrs. A
Ickerson, C. Smith, E. P. Meyers, S. A Lee, W. Moore,
G. L. Macready, A. Thompson, J. B. Doutty, and j!
Walford. The latter was elected to the new office of
snb-Captain, and Messrs. W. Bull, jun., A. Ickerson,
and W. Moore were elected delegates to the New South
Wales Rowing Association.
The complimentary banquet given to the eight-
oar crews by the Association took place at Aaron’s
Exchange Hotel on Saturday evening, and was attended
by about eighty gentleman. The Hon. George
Thornton occupied the chair. At the close of the
dinner, after the usual loyal toasts, the toast of the
“ Victorian Crew ” was proposed by the chairman, who
congratulated them upon their glorious victory in au
eulogistic speech. Mr. Upward replied, and expressed
the thanks of himself and crew for the treatment they
had received from all sides. The chairman then pre-
sented each member of the winding crew with a
handsome silver medal. Mr. Sahl proposed the health
of the “New South Wales Crew,” and Mr Arthur
briefly responded in an appropriate speech. Mr. Lord
also returned thanks. “The Victorian Rowing Asso-
ciation,” “The Ladies.” “The Press,’” and “The
Chairman ” were then honored, and the proceedings
terminated.
Harry Forster, of Rotherhitbe, and George
Schultz, of Kennington, recently fought for a small
stake near London. Schultz is 28 years of age, stands
sft. 7|in., and weighed 1481 b, whilst Forster is two years
older, IJin. higher, and 61b heavier At first Schultz
had all the best of the mill, but Forster subsequently
threw his man heavily, turned the tide of the battle,
and won in the seventh round. Time, 38m. A slashing
mill took place on the same day at Brentwood berweeu
Jimmy Green and Fred Monk, two Birmingham lads
for £5O a side. In a previous encounter Monk had been
declared the winner, but Green was not satisfied with
the result. On the present occasion the verdict was
reversed. Monk for fourteen rounds had considerably
the best of the exchanges; but in the fifteenth round
Green got home a severe upper-cut, which put Monk’s
jaw out of shape, and, though he afterwards fought
most pluckily, he was finally knocked out of time in
the 32nd round, when they had been engaged forty
minutes. The men were severely punished.
Harry Constable, the celebrated jockey, died at
Epsom, Feb. 17th. He wasted away to eighty pounds.
He attempted, last season, to combine the duties of a
private trainer to those of jockey to Lord Rosebery,
which caused his illness. He was attended by Sir
William Gull, one of her Majesty’s physicians. The
deceased took part, in his early years, in many famous
races. Constable was considered a good and most
reliable jockey. He stood well with the horse-racing
fraternity, and was the equal of such men as Archer,
Fordham, and Cannon He was many years in Lord
Rosebery’s employ. When he did not ride the latter’s
horses he was training them. For the past four years
Constable’s illness was indicated in his riding. In 1877
he rode 77 mounts ; in 1878, 69; in 1879, 47; and in 1880,
22. In, January, 1880, Lord Rosebery became dis-
satisfied with Peck, who had been training his horses.
He took them away from him, and sent them to
Constable. Lord Rosebery was more than satisfied
with the change. His horses looked better, and were ; n
finer condition on the turf last year than any others,
and elicited favorable comment from people competent
to speak upon the success ot the change. ' The English
sporting papers echoed their opinions. Constable rode
at 112 lbs.
Writes Pendragon —Hanlan’a growing un-
popularity in Canada is no longer a matter of mere sur-
mise. The secret is beginning to leak out in various
directions. In a communication I have just received
from over the water some remarkable hints are thrown
out as to what the writer calls Hanlan’s meanness.
These hints are of the broadest—they consist of a series
of deliberate statements. During the time that Hanlan
was matched against Trickett a good deal of betting
went on in the city of Toronto. Several Australian
commissions were there executed, and besides there
were not wanting natives with suffici nt force of char-
acter to back their own opinions and to prefer, at the
price, the chance possessed by Trickett. Hanlan suffers
from a strong belief that everybody makes money out
of him, and that he is never considered in the sharing.
The latest about him is that, when he learned what a
large quantity of speculation was going on in Canada,
and learned as well, that one gentleman, a local jour-
nalist, was holding nearly all the money, Hanlan sent a
telegram to Toronto insisting that 5 per cent on all
winnings should be deducted, and the sums so obtained
be placed to his credit. The narrative goes on to say
that although Hanlan was so eager to send this mes-
sage, he would not pay for-it himself, but “dead-
headed ” Colonial Shaw for the expenses of transmis-
sion.
After the formal reception of Laycock in th«
vestibule, an adjournment, at the invitation of the
Mayor, was made to the smoking-room. The large
table was covered with black bottles with written
labels. Laycock’s health was again drunk with three
times three, and a gentleman with a very fine bass voice
trolled out the “Pinafore” hymn, “For he is an
Australian,” in splendid style. Another gentleman
took the opportunity to recite to Elias a few lines
which he had written for the occasion. Elias appeared
to be a little bored. The healths of Messrs. Lett, Went-
worth and Miss Wentworth were drunk, as was also
that of Mr. John Thompson, who, in responding, stated
that he was sorry to find that such hard things had
been said about Trickett, who pulled an honest race.
Ned was so ill in his second contest with Boss that he
advised him to forfeit, whereupon Trickett replied that
h® would sooner die in his boat than forfeit. (Cheers.)
He admitted that Hanlan was the best man in the
world, but that he was the only man who could defeat
the Australians. He assured them that whatever
Trickett's proceedings might be in America, they
might be confident'that he would do the right thing,
for the last man in the world whose honesty and
integrity he would dare to impugn were those c f Edward
Tricaett. Before the meeting separated, Hanlan’s
health was drunk, and three hearty cheers given for
the now acknowledged champion of the world.
The reception accorded to Elias Laycock was
successful in every respect; it was worthy the citizens
of Sydney as a tribute to the genuine and sterling merit
of the great sculler. The procession was a picture,
and the reception by the Mayor at the Town Hall was
conducted amidst vociferous and enthusiastic cheering,
•'he citizens are justly proud of Laycock; for as ho
stood on the platform, and waiving all considerations
of his own merits, modestly asked his hearers to think
wdl of his "mate” Edward Trickett, and reiterated his
thinks to the kind friends who had " stuck to him ” in
his up-hill work in England, he fully justified the
English sporting writers’ opinion of him. Mr. D.
O Connor truly expressed the sentiments of the meet-
ing when he stated that “ not the fine coat, but the great
big heart that beats beneath it, denotes the man,” and
that Laycock had thoroughly proved his manliness.
The sculler among scullers ” was much affected by the
cordial welcomes with which he was greated; though
he left these shores almost friendless, it must be
admitted that the hearty greeting we have given him
should atone for our past neglect. We notice that a
little sneering has been indulged in in one quarter at
“ the fuss made over the reception given to a common
professional sculler.” Well, Laycock’s father was a
gentleman, his grandfather was a gentleman who wore
the King’s uniform, and was high in the service; and
Elias himself has never done anything to disgrace the
family. The doughty king of Shark Island is, anyhow,
a good deal better-looking, a great deal better bred, and
perhaps a little better educated than most of those who
talk about him.
Matched against Bloodhounds
Apropos of the death of “Old Mountjoy,” the pedes-
trian, a correspondent of a London sporting newspaper
relates the following story, which he heard from
Mountjoy’s own lips
Hearing Lord W boast that his bloodhounds
wonld track any living thing by scent alone, Colonel
A wagered one hundred guineas they would not
track a man, and asked Mountjoy to win the wager for
him, assuring the startled pedestrian there was no
danger of the dogs catching him, as they were slow
runners, and he would take care sufficient start was
allowed him. The trial duly came oil over three miles
of ground round Hampstead Heath.
After the dogs had sniffed at Mountjoy’s legs, he
made his way leisurely for half the course, when the
flag was dropped, and the hounds set loose. They
tracked their quarry splendidly, but were six hundred
yards behind when Mountjoy reached the inn at the
end of the course, and shut the door upon them, out-
side which they howled their dissatisfaction until
removed by their keeper. •
Disbelievers in the bloodhound’s scent were still
unconvinced, and to settle the point another match
was made, to be run at night, the distance this time
being but a mile and a half. Unsuspicious of foul play,
Mountjoy went gaily on his way, but had not accom-
plished more than two-thirds of the distance allowed
him by the conditions, when his hair stood on end, as
the cry of the dogs hot upon his trail reached his ears.
They had been purposely slipped before the proper
time, without any warning.
“ For one second,” said he, “ I stood stock still, as
if I had been frozen, and then dashed away and ran as
I had never done before, and have never done since. I
was in perfect training and condition, but the cold
sweat broke out from every pore, and poured down rav
body, while my legs seemed like lead, and I trembled
*ll over. Still I kept desperately on, whilst nearer and
nearer came the deep hoarse bay of the hounds, as the
scent grew warmer, and they knew they were running
up to their prey. I thought I was lost. Those few
seconds were like weeks, and I wondered whether they
would grip me first by the leg, or fly straight at my
throat. Luckily, I did not lose my head ; and after
the first mad burst I settled down and raced away at a
pace which I knew would last the distance ; but still
•loser, and closer came the horrible cry, that sounded
like my death-knell; and, in sheer desperation, I put
on all the speed I could. At last I saw the lights of
the lonely little inn, and ray heart rose within me; but
at that very instant the brutes broke out into a fierce
savage yell that told me they had sighted me at last.
There was a small garden in front of the house, and as
I flew up to it I saw the gate was shut How I did it I
never knew; but, blown and exhausted with terror and
the pace as I was, I cleared it, darted through the
door, which fortunately stood open, and slamming it
too, stood with my back against it. The lock had
scarcely closed, when bang! bang! against the panels
came my terrible pursuers'; and then they lay down and
yelled savagely at finding themselves balked of their
prey."
As soon as he felt himself safe, rage took the place of
fear, and seizing hold of a bottle, Mountjoy swore he
wonld brain Lord W if he entered the place—a
threat he would have fulfilled had not those present
got him out of the room in time to prevent justifiable
homicide.
Laycock v. Hanlan.
Is tho course of two-and-a-balf columns about the
Hanlan-Laycock contest, “ Pendragon ” says, among
other things, that “ never within the memory of man
was a contest of such importance won with such
ridiculous ease; that Hanlan beat Laycock much more
easily than he beat Trickett; that not'only was Laycock
never in front, but he never was so much as level. The
boats did not for one instant live together, and when a
dozen strokes had been rowed it must have been patent
to everybody’ that nothing but a special interposition
of Providence could make Laycock the winner. . . .
Laycopk looked as well, as strong, and determined as
ever, and in the race rowed up to any form he had
theretofore exhibited. Hanlan, on the contrary, was
pinched and haggard, stale and overtrained, and was in
nothing like the condition he showed on the day he
rowed Trickett. . . . On the morning of the race
Hanlan weighed lOst 91b to Laycock’s 12st 4tb, Not-
withstanding the great disparitv in height, Laycock
being 6ft 2Jin to Hanlan’s oft Biin, it was noticeable
that Hanlan sat at least as high as Laycock—not while
they were rowing, because then Hanlan was much the
higher of the pair, as he keeps a perfectly straight
back, while Laycock’s position must horrify some of
the gentlemen who believe that attitude is everything,
While both men were sitting still a stranger would
never have imagined there were six inches and over a
stone and a half of difference between them. By-and-
by, as the race went on, and a full view was obtained
of Laycoek’s massive chest and shoulders, the differ-
ence in weight was easily understandable, but it was
more difficult than before to make out the difference in
height. Hanlan appeared to have double his enemy’s
length of reach, and could get more pace upon his boat
with one long steady stroke than Laycock could with
two short and snatchy plunges. . . . Directly
Hanlan saw that Laycock was giving premonitory
symptoms of starting, he took a short half-run upon
his slide, dipped, and set his boat going before settling
down into a long steady sweep of thirty-seven for the
first minute. This was the way in which Hanlan began
when he rowed Elliott. In accordance with a concerted
plan, he did not adopt the same tactics in the race with
Trickett. Hanlan slipped away and was running at a
high rate of. speed almost before Laycock hijd made a
beginning. I am more interested to note that never
was there such a rate of speed shown upon the Thames,
or in England, as was shown by Hanlan
during the first minute. He rowed twenty strokes
(including the ’half-stroke’) in the first half-minute.'
and eighteen in the second; and if the boat rocked
slightly it was because of the tremendous pace at
which it was travelling. Never before were thirty-seven
such strokes pulled right through in 60 secs. Laycock
started af forty to the minute, and dropped a little
after taking a dozen strokes—he was counted for the
full minute doing thirty-niue. The difference in styles
was something wonderful. Nothing was lost bv
Hanlan, whose blade whipped through the water from
beginning to end of the stroke, and whose action, de-
spite the expert critics, despite, too, the old boat and
the strange sculls, was as near mechanical perfection
as is possible to poor humanity. Laycock, on the other
hand, wasted the first part of his stroke in mid air, and
did not catch the water until the blades were almost,
opposite the rowlocks.


Tailors, Drapers
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOUI
358, 360, 362. George-
OPENING NEW G<
for
WINTER SEAS(
EVERT DAY DURING TI
FIRST GENERAL £
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESS]
FOR THE WINTER £
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE GAME
DOVER HOMESPUN INDRI
ELASTIC BIEGE AN GO
KASGHER CASHMERE JERSE
STOCKINGETTE VALPj
AND A LARGE ASSORTMEI
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY. — 1
cases of very
ERT, somethi
handsome, dire
houses in Lond>
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAR'
SILK, Rich V«
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES, ]
SILKS, in a var
BLACK SATIN
inches wide, 3s
6s lid, 7s 6d. ’
worn, and str<
for wear, and fl
BLACK VELVE
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard star
BLACK SATINS
inches and 24
3s lid, 4s 6d, J
axe light and sc
under usual
SILK VELVE
every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs,
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPART
OPENED a
MENT of al
LACES in eve
imitation, Emb;
Ruffling, Mode
Cuffs, Collarei
Lace Ties in
Spanish Lace I
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SHEETINGS w<
PROM DRESS
be no decepti
washed. Ladi
Sheetings good
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-ii
inch, Is 6d to 2;
to 3s. Americt
& Horrooks’ CJ
QUILTS, from
prices. Color
-QUILTS, 2\ lo:
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 anc
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our study
this class of 1
character. By
year after year
of FIRST-CLA!
are now shown
. ment of of DA'
NAPKINS, hot
Damask. Thef
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We t
MASK CLOTI
425; 5-BNAPK
3-4 NAPKINS
29s 6d; DA
round or square
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 5
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW LIN
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, froi
cording to size
ISH TOWELS
Tailors, Drapers
TOTJ ARB
RESPECTFULLY INVI
TO VISIT
HORDEBN
IS
PITT STREET
HIGH-CLASS CASH T
3 BRIDGE STREET,
LATB
CUTTER TO E. MIL
Begs to inform his friends and the
opened the above premises f<
gentlemen who wish to have tl
manship, Ac., at a low price for
Gentlemen requiring this with Wes
should give me'a trial.
Country orders promptly a
N.8.-TWO DOORS FROM GE
Business Announci
LLEGAL.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD,
. SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEREAGH STREE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary I
Legal.— Mr. t. m. s
SOLICITOR, has con
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite t
News Office.
PORTRAIT PAH'
225 BOURSE STREET, WOO!
A' L L E N
(Just from Europ
PROFESSOR OP DANC
Evening Adult classes, Mondays a
Adult Beginner’s classes, Saturday
classes, Thursdays 4.15 p.m.; Satur
wishing private tuition in Boston ai
and latest fashionable Dancing, a]
till 12 noon, 344 Castlereagh-street,
street. Residence, 161 LIVERPOC
gANDEE LAZARU
CHINA, GLASS, EARTI
E. P. WARE, CUTI
STATIONERY, CLOCKS. .
BERLIN WOOI
AND FANCY GC
INDENTS EXECUTED LO\
Geo. l. lis
•WTftTl_nr.4S3 HASH T
MAC
General Importers
AMERICAN HARD
YORK STREE':
G. C H U E C
TWDOPTFR AVT» WANTH
ILLUSTRATED PRICE L;
The wonderful
SEWING MACHINES, wit:
tacking (or basting), without the u
without any pulling or pushing of
vary fine double seams or fells; wil
braid, make their own braid, bind,
sew on ribbons and trimmings,
width, make frills, quilt, hem, ar
embroider curtains or antimaeassai
all household and factory sewing,
of work will be shown at our offices
trades can be supplied. They are s
in running, strong, handsome, a:
machine may be had on trial, ENT
CHARGE. Instruction at YOU
free. Every WERTHEIM Machi;
KEPT IN REPAIR and workii
YEARS from the date of purchase
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO
on price list for TIME PAYMENT
Any machine delivered at your
and inspection FREE OF CHARG
samples by post. Country age
liberal terms. BEALE and C(
street, near Market-street, and
HILL; Hunter-street, Neweast
Bathurst. No matter in what pai
live, we will supply you witl
MACHINE upon TIME PAYM
INTEREST.
The a u s t
"HOME” SHUT'
AMERICAN LOCKS'
SEWING MAC
i
Tailors, Draper)
COUNTRY ORDERS promp
carefully executed. Send P.(
a choice selection of Fancy and Gei
the Departments—New Dress Ma
laines, Series, Cashmeres, Satin Cl
FIRST CLASS DRESS:
AUTUMN AND WINTER
Our own Manufactured Gkc
2 Buttons 4 Buttons
2s 9d 3s 9d
Posted 3s. 4s
Cut paper patterns, all gam
JOHN B. TOUD
6 GEORGE STI
(Just below Liverpo
MERICAN CUT PAPI
MADAME DEMO
Perfect Fitting
Newest styles every mail from I
Full directions and illustrations wi
MADAME DEMOREST’S publi
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, grat
MISS LOUISA H
87 King Street, Sydney (two doc
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-sti
The misses
(Late with Messrs. David
52, MARGARET ST]
WYNYARD SQI
Three Doors from Mr. J. Spi
Have much pleasure in announcing
to open Mantles Millinery, and sp«
Ladies for the Autumn Season. A
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, WY
E
P LISE’S PAPER CUT
All communications to be
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET,
Six doors from George
Orders for Patterns cannot be (
paid. Our cut-out Paper Pattern
style, cut, and finish, being modelled
Fashions, and are always sent p(
receipt of stamps or money order.
66 TT is a well-know
JL for Household or Famil
Hordern’s” Old-Established and
porium on the Brickfield Hill has
for Value, Variety, or Extent of St
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOC
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES A
Gr
E O R G E L. I
TAILOR, i
3 BRIDGE STREET, £
PROM LONDO
LATE
CUTTER TO E. Ml]
Begs to inform his friends and tin
opened the above premises (
TAILORING ESTABLISHM
will be to supply the best good
a good fit, at moderate prices, 1
Country orders will receive pr
TWEED SUITS, fro)
N. 8.-2 DOORS FROM G
N°
TICE TO TH
SUITS TO ORDEI
R. C. HAG
FASHION ABL
TAILORING ESTAB:
127 KING STRE
Where you can be fitted with the i
cheapest Outfit in the
■Wrtfa fho T3v+.ranrdiHarv Cheap P)


Hotels, &c.
o LD
EX HIBITIO
PRINCE ALFRED
(Opposite Gate.
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION
Plunge and Shower Baths
WINES and SPIRITS, superior
drawn from the wood.
THOS. hil:
WOOLP.
T T PARRAMATTA
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the
moderate charges. First-class Bo
Hotels, &i
FOSTER’S Bug
H
i-3
<<
<1
Ah
The BEST ALE and STOl
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEI
MERCHANT;
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE E
I
THE PERFECTION
OF
UNRIVALLED fob
SOL
GR
l&E
3I.COM M
DISTIL
It is of the utmost importance
bottle should be carefully compai
are being imported into New S
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevi
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISK
other brands, when they will fi:
least 10 per cent, in favour of
WHISKY.:
‘ VlRGOE, §ON,~aN!5
AGENTS.
J # C. W A
(Late COLLINS & :
SEATED WATERS, G1
and
CORDIAL MANUF4
438 HARRIS STRE]
Jg ASTERN SPECIALITY
.
CABLES AND A
strongly recommend tbei
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to at
mnnTi Tnc4tAr m
Hotels, &<
B
OBEET B U T C
(Late William I
WINE AND SPIRIT M
5Ji GEORGE ST1
OPPOSITE TOWN HAL
Countbt Oedebs Receive Pb
I
ICE. Id
E
FBOM FILTERS]
Supplied in ant Qu
AND AT EEDUCEI
Direct from tl
CITY ICE COMPAN
WATERLO(
Office— 3 WYNYAE]
T
HE GENUINE EAU
IS THE
Ho. 4,
Distinguished by th
c
Manufactured
JOHANN MARIA
JULICHS-PL ATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (G
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Do;
By appointment to His Royi
Prince of Wah
Prize Medals:—London, 1851; Ne
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (I
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili)
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (]
not represented.) Sydney, 1879
Notice. —The Public are cautio
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudul
Colognes; and notice is hereby s
Marks being duly registered, all"
ceeded against to the full extent c
JOHANN MAR
WHOLESALE AG
MESSES. RABONE, F
3 WYNYARD SQ’
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING M
THE REALLY GOOD TEi
SENTED TO
Hotels, &(
The compagno
CAFE AND CATERING C
The ladies* and gentlemen’s EES’
IS NOW OPE
The Company have secured t
Marriette, late de cuisins
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinm
Three hours notice required for p:
The spacious rooms of Messi
been greatly enlarged, re-deco;
Every attention will be paid t
establishment.
SAMUEL
June 30.1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE
serve up in their b<
OYSTER STEWS
OTSTEES SCOLI
OYSTERS FEIEI
and
OYSTE CS NATU1
Patrons of our Theatres and C<
FEESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S. opposi
QIO ENGLISH
And Visitors from the neighl
and the Public gen
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW I
THE IMPEEIAL
MOUNT YICTOl
Is in the midst of all that is worth
Mountains. First-class accom
and gentlemen. Comfort, cle
combined with moderate chart
J. G. C 0 U S I
Proprietor.
HOTEL DE EE
78 & 80 CASTLEEEA
Opposite Theatre
OT
EB
MU
m
i,
LUNCHEON and SUPPEE-EOOl
ACCOMMODATION FOE T
S. MUHLEBACH & G
PEOPEIETOEl
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimuiant
The Same of M. MOSS & OO.
every Genuine Bottle.
UNI P E E T E
&
*^s
&
&
$
2
<n
&
i
Eft CJPEEIOE to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent—C H A
2 BRIDGE STREET, {
IT is not the clearness or conditi
Ale that preserves this bram
mation. Common bitter crude beei
but no other brand has the same n
ter, the fulness on the palate, ai
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. C
tore cautioned against traders wh
extra profit represent the commoi
equal in quality to the Bull Dog.
CO., Sole Agents.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
A big theatrical scandal is incubating here.
Madame Boema is likely to return to Sydney
again.
Mnsgrove’s Opera Company open in Adelaide,
2nd May.
At a late date, Barry Sullivan was dangerously
ill in Dublin.
“Kerry Gow” at the Melbourne Eoyal with Wal-
ton in the star part.
“ Zulu ” Thompson and his show are a great
success at Melbourne.
Thiodon’s Polytechnic (formerly Spencer’s Me-
chanical Museum) is in the market.
The “ Passion Play ” is again threatened, and
New York ministers are on the alert.
Briill’a “ Ladfriede,” a new opera, has been
produced at Berlin with great success.
Hoskins recently played Hamlet in Melbourne.
The experiment was only moderately successfnl.
E. A. Sothern would never sacrifice his mous-
tache, not even in his impersonation of David Garrick.
“ Lohengrin ” is the most popular and the most
frequently performed of all the operas on the German
stage.
Madame Sophie Mender, the accomplished Ger-
man pianiste, makes her first appearance in London this
season.
When the mail left the Lingards were looking
for an opening in'Frisco with every prospect of an early
engagement.
The Pollard Troupe are to open at the Royal,
Christchurch, on Easter Monday. This is, of course, a
“ bran ” new idea.
Woodyear’s Circus has been doing rather bad
business since leaving Echuca. The show will be at
Ballarat at Easter.
Signor Salvini, at the instance of 230 New York
actors and managers, recently gave a special matinee
performance at Booth’s Theatre.
Minnie Hauck has been making an angel’s visit
to Berlin. She recently appeared in “Carmen” at the
Eoyal Opera House for two nights only.
Mme. Fanny Janauschek was billed to re-appear
on the stage—from which she has long been absent —at
Booth’s Theatre, New York, 7th March.
Bret Harte’s drama, “ The Two Men of Sandy-
Bar,” has, under the title of “The Lost Son,” been
successfully produced at the National Theatre at
Berlin.
“Caste” is to be performed shortly at Auck-
land (N.Z.) by an amateur club, Mr. W. W. Eobinson,
of Thamesian celebrity, sustaining the character of
Eccles.
Mr. Millis, the ventriloquist, who was always
worth hearing, has greatly improved of late, and is
now, according to our Melbourne correspondent, quite
a wonder.
Harry Hunter, the actor who played the part of
the Lone Fisherman with the original “ Eice ‘ Evan-
geline’ Troupe," died of pneumonia on February 15th, at
Cincinnati.
A well-known firm is said to be engaged in the
manufacture of clothing out of glass. It expects to do
a largo business in revolutionizing the wardrobes of
ballet troupes.
M. Leon Caron, composer of the Melbourne
Exhibition Cantata, is the director of the Montague-
Turner Opera Company, who open at the Gaiety this
(Saturday) night.
An English judge has ruled, in a suit brought
before a court in Leeds, that amateurs using copy-
righted plays must pay the authors the same royalty
charged professionals.
The Goodenough Home ought to nett at least
£l3O by the Eomanys’ benefit. This is supposing that
these blue-blooded performers pay their own ex.’s,
which of course they do.
Lewis and the niggers migrate shortly to the
Opera House, where they are to go in for purely min-
strel business. We trust the spec, will be a profitable
one; but oh ! those stairs 1
Baker and Farron were at Chicago on February
18, doing well with their new piece “ The Emigrants,”
said to have been written by Mr. Eobert Eeece, author
of “ The Half-crown Diamonds.”
Miss Isabel Bateman, long her mother’s secre-
tary and manager, assumes the reins at New Sadlers’
Wells Theatre, London. Miss Bateman is well-known to
playgoers as an actress of talent and taste.
For the third time, on the ground that his pro-
fessional duties elsewhere are too numerous and press-
ing, Arthur Sullivan has resigned his post at the
Kensington (Eng.) Training School of Music.
In noticing “ School” at the Theatre Royal, the
Adelaide Carroll says —“ Naomi Tighe, as played by
Miss Blanche Stammers, runs a dead heat with the
same part as played by Marie Wilton." And all this
for a two-inch ad.!
“ The handsome display of dresses shown in the
Victorian court of the Exhibition by Messrs. Moubray,
Eowan, and Hicks, and which has been the admiration
of the ladies, has been purchased by Miss Myra Kemble,
the well-known actress.” Whew!
Says the N. Y. Mercury of Feb. 15“ Joe
Emmet was the other day, for the first time in his life,
prevented by water from filling an engagement. On
account of floods the train on which he was a passenger
was unable to reach New Orleans in time.”
“ The Pirates of Penzance ” has taken immensely
in the old country. In London, it has been running
continuously for considerably more than a year, and
the provincial company formed to represent the piece
is compelled to make a stay of about two months in
each town visited.
The Taranaki Herald (where is Taranaki P)
gives the Lydia-Howarde Company great kudos for
“ Eobinson Crusoe." If, however, the Taranaki
“dramatical cricket" were less “carried away” by his
subject (or object) we should be better able to gather
how the show really does “gee.”
The original Dan Rice and once popular eques-
trian clown died on Sunday, January 16th, at 162
Broomsgrove-street, Birmingham. None of his rela-
tions were present, their addresses being unknown; but
the last moments of poor “Dan” were solaced by the
kindness and attention of his old friend, Mr. Yardley.
The death of Patty Oliver, the original of Black-
eyed Susan, reminds us that Charles Matthews wrote
one of his most characteristic letters in contradicting a
report of his marriage with her, saying that he was
suffering at the time from an accident to his right arm,
and would be the last to offer Miss Oliver the indignity of
a left-handed marriage.
John R. Rogers has engaged Minnie Palmer for
a tour round the world, and will play her throughout
Canada, Sandwich Islands, New Zealand, Australia,
Cape Colony, Africa, India. England, Ireland, Scotland,
and Wales. They will also visit all important points in
Europe. Mr. Eogers’s sister, a literary lady, will
accompany the party.
The “ Kids” fete at the Garden Palace on Mon-
day will be great fun. The musical arrangements, we
believe, have been entrusted to Mr. Luscombe Searrell,
the well-known virtuoso. This gentleman, by the way,
had great success in New Zealand with his new opera,
“ The Wreck of the Pinafore,” and we understand he
is in treaty for its production here.
At a recent magical seance, by the Fakir of Ava,
the following interesting incident occurred : “ That
marked coin will be found in the vest pocket of that
gentleman there,” said the learned magician, pointing
with his magic wand at Sam Johnsing. All eyes were
riveted on Sam, who advanced to the front, took some
money from his vest pocket, and said: “ Boss, heah is
your change. I had two beers and a cigar oujLpf that
coin you told me to keep in my vest pocke?*ull you
called for it.”
Miss Maggie Knight has made her re-appearance
at the Theatre Eoyal, Auckland, after several years’
absence, as Moya in the “ Shangraun,” Grattan Riggs
playing Conn. The N. Z. Herald says that the experi-
ence gained whilst travelling elsewhere has effected a
wonderful improvement in her acting. She sang several
songs during the performance, and was enthusiastically
encored.
Amy Sherwin, that “ Tasmanian nightingale,”
whose singing we all admired so much, has been a party
to a very curious suit before the Chicago law conrts.
The full length portrait of Miss Grace Lanphear was
fraudulently used for that of Miss Amy Sherwin. The
Chicago Lithographing Company were the offending
parties, and the piracy of which they were found guilty
cost them £lOO.
The “ Stray Leaves ” Company have done aver-
age business during their Victorian tour. At Maldon
they played against Woodyear’s Circus to a fair house.
They appear at St. Arnaud at Easter, and at Dunolly
(return visit) on race-night, the 27th. Mr. J. F. Forde
shortly leaves the company, which will probably then
be re-organised by Miss Carrington for an extended
tour through N.S.W, and Queensland.
The other day three of Pittsburg, Pa., papers
appeared with extravagant encomiums of the vocaliza-
tion of Annie Louise Cary, of Mapleson’s Company, in
“ II Trovatore” at a local theatre. The critics fairly
gushed over the prima donna’s singing, and were horri-
fied when they ascertained that, owing to a sudden
attack of illness. Miss Cary had been unable to appear,
and that her part had been filled by one of the chorus
singers.
Apropos to the recent agitation for closing our
Museum and Free Public Library on Sunday, it is
edifying to know that in Berlin many places of public
interest and entertainment are open and extensively
patronised on the afternoon of that day. The Museum
and National Gallery, for instance, can be inspected
after twelve o’clock, and the Zoological Garden and
Thiergarten draw large crowds after the honra of
religious service.
Mrs. E. A. Sothern proposes to contest the will
of the dead comedian. It is believed that while in
Montreal last Spring, he made a will leaving a large
portion of his property to his wife, his three sons, and
his daughter. Just before his death he made another
will, leaving all his property to his sister, Mrs. Cowan,
in whose house he breathed his last. The contest will
be waged on the ground that the sister, while he was
enfeebled, exercised an undue influence over him.
Dion Boucicault is said to be 59 years of age ;
Edwin Booth, 43; Daniel Bandmann, 42; Adolphe Belot,
51; Octave Feuillet, 69; Paul Feval, author of “ Duke’s
Motto,” 63; Charles Gayler, 61; Gustave Freytag, the
playwright, 65; W. S. Gilbert, 44; W. D. Howells, 44;
Joe Jefferson, 52 ; Joaquin Miller, 40; Salvini, 47;
Sardou, 49; Barry Sullivan, 57; John L. Toole, 51;
Webster, the English comedian, 81; Kate Bateman, 39;
Fanny Cerito.danseuse, 69; Piccolominl, 46; Eistori, 60;
Taglioni, 77.
The Otago Witness is a very ingenuous paper.
Speaking of Brown, Newland, and Wallace, it says:—
‘‘They are appearing at the Oxford Music Hall, in
Oxford-street, at 8 40; the South London Music Hall,
on the London Eoad, Borough, at 9 40; and at the
London Cambridge Hall of Varieties, Bishopgate, at
10'50. They appear to have made a hit in a new sketch
and comic act called * Slocum’s Dog.' ” “ Slocum’s
Dog” is very new indeed —almost as much so as
Villikins and his Dinah.
Says the Campbelltown Herald, “ The
Kelly and Leon Minstrels performed to a good house
in Campbelltown on Monday evening. We paid for our
tickets, so know nothing about the performance.” We
suppose, then, had the editor not paid for his ticket, a
long par., beginning “ A large and enthusiastic audience
greeted the first appearance of this highly talented
company," would have graced the columns of the
Herald. However, it is just possible that Leon will
manage to rub along without it.
“ The Money-Spinner,” by A. W. Pinero, is the
latest London success. It is a comedy-drama, of very
strong interest, and is running at St. James’s Theatre.
Its story, which is constructed with ingenuity, shows a
young wife cheating at cards for the purpose of preserv-
ing her husband from dishonour and imprisonment. In-
curring detection, she has to subject herself of necessity
to abject humiliation before she obtains from her
intended victim as a loan what she had sought to
gain in a less defensible fashion.
The recent prohibition of the sale of one of the
works of Heine in Germany suggests the strict censor-
ship which is imposed upon literature and the drama in
that country and Austria. It is said that a short time
ago a new piece was accepted by the proprietor of a
Vienna theatre, and in due course it was sent to the
censor for approval. One of the characters is made, in
the second act, to call for a chop. The official wrote on
the margin—“ On fete days let a fried sole, or other fish
in season, be here called for instead of a chop."
We notice that our old friend Stephen Massett
(“ Jeems Pipes, of Pipesville”) is again before a New
York audience and has been warmly welcomed. Mr.
Massett’s first impulse for a public life was given at
Charleston, in which city he sang at the concerts of the
Seguins and old John Sinclair. It was there that he
composed the words and music of his celebrated song,
“ When the Moon on the Lake is Beaming,” which is
universally known throughout the United States, and
has for many years brought him a handsome yearly
income.
The Royal Victoria Coffee Music Hall has been
opened in London. The stalls are fitted with small
tables to hold the harmless refreshments of the
patrons, and saloons for the sale of coffee, &c., and
innocent comestibles are attached to pit and gallery.
In the handsomely-appointed coffee tavern adjoining
the Music Hall, and forming part of the establishment,
a cup of good coffee may be obtained for one half-
penny 1 Howard Paul, Arthur Lloyd, and Miss Edith
Somers were among the vocalists who appeared on the
opening night.
Miss Antoinette Sterling, the charming ballad
vocalist, recently sang before the Queen. There was
no ceremony. Her Majesty, attended by some ladies
and gentlemen of the household in waiting, sat in the
drawing-room without formality, and listened to the
sweet songstress as she intoned Kingsley’s “Three
Fishers,” Molloy’s “ Clang of the Wooden Shoon,” the
ancient “ Three Eavens,” and some German Lieder. A
few days later Miss Sterling received from Her
Majesty a beautiful memento of the evening—a silver
tea-set of a most recherchi pattern.
We notice from the Statesman and Friend
op India that Mr. A. A. Wilson, son of Mr. John
Wilson, of circus renown, was on 9th February married
at Calcutta to Eosina Caroline, daughter of Mr. Charles
Lee, of Sacramento, Cal. Miss Lee, it will be re-
membered, was formerly with Chiarini’s big show, and
was one of the principal performers of that company
when it visited Sydney. And, by the way, we learn
with regret from a private source that Mr. Charles
Warner, the well-known lion-tamer who accompanied
Chiarini to Sydney, died in Calcutta of small-pox, just
before the mail left.
“ Darrell’s engagement at the Baldwin,” says
the S. F. Argonaut, “ will not prove remunerative.
The first piece caught the spiritualists to a slight
extent: but people who believe in spiritualism, see and
hear much more astonishing things than Darrell’s mes-
merism and his dream; and the spectacle of a little
man opening his eyes wide and staring a big man off the
stage savours too much of that gag which Eva West
made so much of in “ Kenilworth,” when she blew the
two small guards over on their backs. Mr. Darrell
says that Australia does not boast of any other play-
wright but himself. Arcadian Australia! ”
The recent death of Miss Patty Oliver, the
clever London burlesque actress, brings to our recol-
lection the following incident connected with her
stage career. Some years ago “ pretty Miss Oliver ”
presided at a stall at one of the Dramatic College fetes
at the Crystal Palace in London, and astonished every-
body by announcing that for the benefit of the charity
she would sell “ a strawberry and a kiss for a shilling."
The “ gilded youth ” rallied round the scene of action
in large numbers; and on paying their shillings they
were greeted at the door by Miss Oliver, who laughingly
kissed the strawberry, and handed it to the victims of
the charitable fraud.
The Princess Theatre, Melbourne, under the
lesseeship of genial Harry Seymour, has been doing a
very good business, considering the great and many
attractions elsewhere. Mr. W. C. Dillon has lately
been starring as Athelwold, Earl of Northumberland,
in the drama entitled Ambition, or the Cottage, the
Tomb, the Throne, and the Scaffold (sic). Miss Marion
Willis *and Messrs. Stuart O’Brien, and W. Ryan
appeared in the principal parts. At the conclusion of
his engagement, Mr. Dillon took a “ farewell benefit,"
and next day departed from the city—on which melan-
choly occasion, we suppose, all the principal places of
business were closed, and the flags of the shipping hung
half mast high.
A story is told of Van Amburgb, the great lion-
tamer, now dead. On one occasion, while in a bar-room,
he was asked how he got his wonderful power over
animals. He said: “It is by showing them that I’m
not the least afraid of them. I’ll give you an example
of the power of my eye.” Pointing to a loutish fellow
who was sitting near by, he said, “ Yon see that fellow ?
He’s a regular clown. I’ll make him come across the
room to me, and I won’t say a word to him.” Sitting
down, he fixed his keen, steady eye on the man.
Presently, the fellow straightened himself gradually,
got up, and came slowly across to the lion-tamer.
When he got close enough he drew back his arm, and
struck Van A mburgh a tremendous blow under the
chin, knocking him clear over the chair, with the
remark: “You’ll stare at me like that again, won’t
you ?’*
We alluded last week to Mr. M'Ardle as being
the author of “Our Guv’nors”—perhaps the worst
comedy ever written. The following report of the
author’s latest eccentricity will be of interest to our
readers“ John Francis M'Ardle, described as a jour-
nalist and pantomime writer, was charged at the South-
wark police-court on Monday with presenting a pistol
at and threatening Mr. William Holland, the lessee of
the Surrey Theatre. The prisoner, it was stated, had
been engaged to write the pantomime, but as the work
was not completed in time he had been discharged.
On Saturday he accosted Mr. Holland at the Surrey
Theatre, and asked for the payment of the money
which he alleged was due to him. Mr. Holland denied
that he owed him anything, whereupon the prisoner
presented a pistol and threatened to shoot him. It was
stated on behalf of the prisoner that he was under the
influence of liquor at the time, and had no intention of
injuring Mr. Holland. He was ordered to find two
sureties for his good behaviour for twelve months.”
In the Herald criticism on the Eomany
amateurs, the accomplished lady who writes, in that
journal, the dramatic record of the colony, is singularly
sarcastic at the expense of those soaring players.
She says—“ The performers as amateurs are beyond the
pale of criticism.” Now we are really of opinion that
this is too severe. These well-meaning people are not
beyond the pale of criticism: on the contrary, they
have rushed in where probably angels would fear to
tread, and therefore, on this account only, they have
laid themselves open to even the comments of a Daniel
Allen. We are quite willing to believe that the critic
of our contemporary meant nothing malicious by the
remark : at the same time, we are bound to admit that
the Eomanys have just cause of complaint in thus being
sat upon by a writer who may not unappropriated be
termed the literary prop of falling fashion. Thus, we
sympathise heartily with the “ golden butterflies” who
have fluttered their little hour at the Gaiety, and we
trust that when next they perform (and when will that
be?) they will inform the Herald that its repre-
sentative will be charged the usual price of admission.
This, we assure the Eomanys of our hearts, will
effectually prevent their being again annoyed by an
unkind cut in our morning contemporary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
It was a peculiar sight. A pretty theatre, with
the stalls packed by the “upper-crust” of Sydney
—the men in evening dress, the ladies in elaborate
theatre costume; five artillerymen and a sailor in the
pit; and twenty outcasts in the circle. These good people
had assembled together partly to benefit a charitable
institution called the Goodenough Home, and partly to
elevate their minds by beholding the Romany Amateurs
perform in Craven’s “ Meg’s Diversion ” and Gilbert’s
«Sweethearts." The prices of admission were as
peculiar as the gathering. The stalls were fis., the
gallery 2s. 6d., and the pit was thrown open to naval
and military heroes gratis. This being the fact, it is
somewhat surprising that more of our gallant defenders
did not av6.il themselves of Dr. Bedford’s invitation.
Possibly, however, our “ standing army” had seen the
Romanys before.
♦ * *
The Romany Amateur Dramatic Club, we may
remark, consists of a band of ladies and gentlemen
selected from the creme de la crSme of Sydney society.
No members of either sex are eligible whose rest would
not be disturbed by a crumpled rose-leaf upon their downy
couches; while to be quite more than —aw —most
fe-arfully bored at every other performance than their
own is a sine qud non of membership. The Romanys, in
short, are aesthetics. They are delicate plants, which
must be watered with praise and fanned with admira-
tion. So sensitive are they that the breath of criticism
causes them to droop and wither; or, rather, it would, —
only, of course, you know, none of them ever read
“ those common papers.” This fact, which we have on
what should really be good authority, is very consoling
to us, since it places ns in the position to fully notice
the performance of these ladies and gentlemen, with-
out hurting the feelings of any of them.
* • «
“ Meg’s Diversion,” which was the drama se-
lected by the Romanys for their opening piece, is by no
means easy of representation. It is, however, popular
with amateurs, because the “ fat ” is pretty evenly dis-
tributed—all the characters having plenty to say.
Originally produced at the London Royalty, with Patty
Oliver as Meg, the author as Jeremy Crow, and Lionel
Brough as Jasper Pidgeon, it enjoyed a long run. The
London people, nevertheless, performed under certain
disadvantages: they were simple professionals, and
quite poor things! umesthetic. Having, in our
younger days, frequently seen “Meg’s Diversion,” as
performed by these grovellers, we gladly jumped at the
opportunity of purchasing from Dr. .Bedford a ticket
to witness the representation of the same comedy by
scions of those patrician houses in comparison with
which the Hapsburgs and the Arundels are but Gub-
binses and Jobsons.
* * *
The performance took place under circum-
stances very favourable to the actors. They had a
beautiful theatre brilliantly lighted"; a full orchestra; a
stage elaborately decorated with beautiful flowers ; and
an audience composed almost—advisedly we say almost —
exclusively of admiring friends. The good-nature exhibi-
ted by the denizens of the stalls was positively ludicrous.
On the entrance of an actor or actress there was much
clapping. On a speech being delivered there was great
applause. When a stage wait occurred (which averaged
three times every ten minutes) Mr. Labertouche gave
the signal and the gentlemen “ busted” their “ laven-
ders.” Even a giddy scion of nobility, who, accurately
dressed after the model of " Captain Cuff,” reclined in
the stage-box, was equally demonstrative.
• ♦ »
When the curtain rose, (which it did rather
spasmodically, by the way,) the scene discovered was
Quilp’s house on Tower Hill, now in the occupation of
Jeremy Crow, a Devonshire farmer and his two charm-
ing daughters—Meg and Cornelia. Both these are
frolicsome young creatures; the innocent gambols of
the former fair flutterer, indeed, border, at times, on
the frisky. Cornelia was represented by Miss Robert-
son, while Miss E. Robertson undertook the role of the
heroine. After this young lady had been five minutes
upon the stage, we came to the fixed conclusion that
Mrs. Siddons could never have played like her. Miss
E. Robertson has a style which is peculiarly her
own. She is utterly, entirely—even painf ally—original.
In appearance the young lady is slight, and has on the
stage a natural stoop and an acquired smile. Her
speeches she delivered (and this is quite a novel feature)
solely to the vice-regal box. Her aplomb was remark-
able. On forgetting her cue, she was not the least dis-
concerted, but held open converse with the prompter
until she got it. Those of the humorous speeches Miss
E. Robertson could remember she gave with success, but
where she shone most, in the comic element, was in the
sentimental passages. When required to shed tears,
the young lady is at her best, her assumption of grief
being irresistibly funny. Altogether we think there is
a great future for Miss E. Robertson in the amateur
theatrical line —a very great future, indeed. The point
is,—does a mere theatre afford scope for her versatile
talents ? We think not. The sooner therefore she haa
Moore Park roofed in the better.
* * *
Of the lady who played Cornelia, this may be
said : She was very conscientious. She kept her gaze
fixed upon the prompter the whole time. That gentle-
man, doubtless feeling flattered by the lady’s attention
spoke, by way of repayment, nearly all her speeches for
her. Miss Robertson is essentially an actress of the
subdned school. The more subdued she is, the brighter
she gleams. In repose she is superb, but when she
speaks on the stage the charm is broken Therefore
but the young lady’s duty to the universe is obvious.
» * *
Miss Durham played the coquettish widow
Mrs. Netwell, and, when in the vicinity of the prompt
wing, was really very lively; and, indeed, at times re-
minded one of Imogene in her prime. To award higher
praise than this would be to paint the lily. There was
a cheerful independence, too, about this lady which few
professional actresses are courageous enough to show.
No matter what trouble was going on with the others*
she spoke all she remembered of her lot with a sublime
indifference to consequences. This, at times, was the
cause of some confusion amongst the performers,
several simultaneously endeavouring to “chip in”
when their cues were given, but without avail. Miss
Durham ran one speech into another with the utmost
cheerfulness, and blandly smiled .while her agonized
companions writhed.
• ♦ ♦
Of the gentlemen, the chief burden fell upon
Mr. Hotham, who appeared (by general request and
particular tears and entreaties) as “Ashley Merton,
Esq., of the Hall." Mr. H. was great fun. He appeared
all through the piece to be fascinated by his boots. He
remonstrated with them, said smart things addressed
exclusively to them; and even made them an offer of
marriage. Never once did this gentleman raise his face
to the audience—not even in monologue ; thereby going
in direct contravention to the dictum laid down by
Mr. Puff, who says soliloquies should always be de-
livered to the pit. Mr. Hotham’s “business” was
almost as original as that of the ladies. He was con-
tinually slapping his pantaloons stealthily as though to
assure himself that his legs were still inside.
♦ • ♦
Jasper Pidgeon, “ a village carpenter ” and the
heroine's lover, was played by Mr. Riddell. This gentle-
man (as the Morning Rum critics say of the scenery at
the Royal) was alone worth the money of admission.
He held the mirror up to nature with a conscientious-
ness that was positively Spartan. Being but a mere
“rough mechanical," it was perfectly natural that
Jasper should have acquired, whilst knocking together
window-sashes for the rustics, the Bond-street drawl
and the Hyde Park swagger. Anyhow, Mr. Riddell
addressed the girl he loved (in the play, of course),
as “ Ma-ag,” and with quite bucolic simplicity, informed
her, in the Sylvan dialect of the nestling village, that it
was aw, presumptuous in him, aw, to aspire to the hand
of one whom he —aw, yes—aw—felt to be so far above
him. Which it certainly seemed to be, for Mr. Riddell
throughout the piece looked like a crow in a hoar frost
holding a boot in its claw. The brother of this self-
denying carpenter, Jasper Pidgeon, was enacted by Mr.
Reginald Bloxsome, private secretary to his Excellency.
Mr. Bloxsome has many qualifications for an actor,
only, at present, they are “ a good way under.” Any-
how, he was the best of the lot, though his success was
somewhat marred by a perceptible consciousness of
being hampered with the responsibility of a struggling
moustache. “ Mr. Eytem ” was enacted by Mr.
Roper in such a highly intelligent manner that we
earnestly recommend this gentleman, in future, to
devote his energies to a much higher branch of the
histrionic art—that of carrying on a banner.
* • •
The acting of the company, as a whole, mnat
be characterised as not only unskilful, but unintelli-
gent. Skill, of course, could not be expected, but we
certainly anticipated beholding, amongst a body of
presumably well-educated ladies and gentlemen, evi-
dences of some thought in their interpretation of the
author’s meaning. No such thing, however, was in
evidence ; and on no occasion did any member of the
company go outside his or her recognised individuality.
The whole thing, in fact, was a series of piteous
appeals to the prompter. Mr. A. Riddell, for instance,
would cross the whole breadth of the stage on being
“ stuck ” in the middle of a speech, and on receiving
the “prompt” would start leisurely on his voyage
back, and forget the words before he got there. Had
there been a loadstone on the left-hand side of the
stage the actors could not have been more irresistibly
drawn towards that portion of the proscenium. Indeed,
sometimes in their eagerness to be assisted they all got
jumbled up together in the prompt corner, like prawns
in a fish basket. The effect of the whole was therefore
indescribably ludicrous. Possibly the actors may have
enjoyed themselves —though we don’t think they did.
On the audience, however, the effect was peculiarly
dispiriting. Yet, as we have remarked, the spectators
were astonishingly kind. Not only was not a single
carrot sent hurtling, through the air, but simulated
approbation was generally meted out. Indeed, as a
matter of fact, the audience, as actors, were im-
measurably superior to the performers.
* * *
The performance concluded with the “ dramatic
contrast, Sweethearts.” We prefer, however, to say
nothing about this. It would be so hard, did we do so,
to retain oar good humor. la conclusion, we have one
suggestion to make to the Romanays. That is, to
change the name of their club to “ A Bundle of Sticks.”
That title would be quite as original, and infinitely
more appropriate.
• • *
• * *
‘ ‘ Yuck-yuck !’ ’ This is hardly a dignified way to
commence a critique, we know, but the exclamation is
naturally recalled to our memory when we have to
chronicle the re-appearance of the Georgias. These
coloured gentlemen opened on Saturday night at the
Queen’s to a splendid house in—of course—“ Uncle
Tom’s Cabin.” The cast was an enormous one, and in
it were included some performers ef recognised merit.
There were many, though, whose immortality is not as
yet, practically secured. We do not, of course, include
Mr. and Mrs. E. Holloway in this category:—for it is a
universally admitted fact that once you have seen those
artistes, you can never forget them,
* * *
It would avail nothing to criticise the working
out of the fable detail by detail, “Uncle Toms
Cabin,” as a novel, has a world-wide celebrity. “ Uncle
Tom’s Cabin,” as a drama, is painfully—not to say
harrowingly—familiar. There are the comic episodes
that are not so comic, and the thrilling escapes which
are not so thrilling; there are the niggers that play up,
and the bridges that come down. There is the blood-
curdling cruelty of Tom Lockyer and Degree, which
should really make us weep, but only makes us smile;
and last, but by no means least, there is the jubilee
singing of the “ niggers.” The latter is presumably the
only excuse that managers have, in putting up a play oi
the nature of “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” which, as a literary
production, is very low down in the scale. On Saturday,
the singing was particularly good, and even as we
write this, “ In de Swee-t By-and-By-e ” is still ringing
in onr ears. In a word, the musical part of the enter*
tainment was a great success, and deserves to he
supported by the public.
• *
Of the acting, also, much that is good may he
said. Mr. G. Holloway’s Simon Degree is well-known
—perhaps better known than respected; but this is, m
course, a matter of opinion. Essentially an actor or tne
“ rumbustical ” school, Mr. Holloway finds it difficult
to tone himself down. He always speaks at the top or
very loud voice, and his gesticulations of anger, love,
hatred, and “ r-r-r-revenge," are of quite “ transpo -
tine ” demonstrativeness. Nevertheless, Mr. Holloway
has his good points as an actor, and is to the last exte
“ experienced.” Mrs. Holloway’s Gassy was a tair 1 ■
formance, bat the Dady Macbeth touches do n
improve it. However, it is half the battle to
romantic —and Mrs. Holloway very nearly does.it.
• * *
The Uncle Tom of Mr. R. B. Smith—we mean
R. B. Dewis, only Burdett the beautiful 18 ulway
our thoughts—was a finished performance. f IT - ,
has evidently thoroughly identified himself wit
part, and the result of his efforts is eminently satisia
tory. Mr. J. Tolano. as Yengas Van Trump.
completely out of his element as a fresh on^
gravelled pathway; and Mr. Harry __ era j
Dockyer, was by far too loud. Mr. Flynn is, m g excel _
way, an excellent villain, but in this instance - j
lence was of a milder form than usual, m
Sweeney sustained the onerous part of Georg


with much intelligence. Indeed, at times he “ came out
his shell ’’ in a manner which surprised even his most
ardent admirers. As Marks, Mr. Harry Heston had no
scope; and the St. Clair of Mr. Eooney was simply inane.
* * ♦
The Topsy of Miss Jennie Moodie was, though
..musing, an ultra-burlesqued interpretation of the
character. The Eva of Miss Nellie Hearn was in the
last degree laboured and mawkish. The other female
oirts were interpreted with moderate intelligence ; and
ill the Georgias were good. The piece was, all things
considered, well mounted, and it is satisfactory to find
Mr. Hogarty, under whose management the drama was
■produced, bestowing that attention to detail, the
absence of which, in Sydney, we have so frequently had
to deplore. This—to quote our programme—“model
and religious drama ” should draw well; and we should
not be surprised to find a notice of it in the Holt Howl.
* ♦ *
* ♦ *
The re-opening of the Gaiety on Saturday next
will be quite an event. The company, all things con-
sidered, is one of the best that could be got together. Mr.
Turner is a sure draw, and so is Miss Aunis Montague.
All the others are vocal veterans. Mr. Farley is always
good; Mr. Templeton is excellent in most parts, and
notably in that of Marasqnin—which, by the way, the
Braceys used to pronounce Marasq nine. Then we have
Mr. Gordon, late treasurer of the Theatre Eoyal, Ade-
laide, who ought to give a good account of himself; Mr.
G. A. Johnson, to whom opera is second nature; and
Mr. W. F. Baker, who is blessed with a good voice, a
charming wife, and a delightful “ pub so, who ought
te be happy.
* * »
Then, by way of contralti,' there is Miss
Lambert, who some time ago literally left Adelaide
strewn with broken hearts ; and Miss Eva Davenport
(welcome, little stranger!); and Miss St. Clair, who
has yet to win her spurs—we mean her bouquets—on
the operatic stage. This now, is really a first-rate crowd,
and we only trust that it will prove as good in reality as
it appears on paper. And we think it will.
• * *
* * *
Mr. Keogh commences his season at the Queen’s
on Saturday, also. He opens with Formosa —Mr.
W. Hoskins playing Major Jorum, and Miss Marian
Willis the heroine. We take this opportunity—without
wishing, of course, to prej udice the success of the
speculation—of protesting against this rubbishing piece
being again thrust upon us. There is really nothing in
the play, unless it is lavishly mounted, that is either
instructive or amusing: and those who have any morals
left to be contaminated can, by sitting Formosa out,
drink in sin by the cupful. We are quite aware that in
• saying this, we are giving Mr. Keogh’s show an adver-
tisement that will make it flz like an imported seidlitz-
powder. At the same time we deem it our duty to make
these remarks, and make them accordingly. We shall
attend, and notice the piece in its turn.
• * *
• • •
Teddy Davies appears at the Garden Palace on
Monday. “ Aint it lovely, Teddy P”
* » *
* ♦ *
A notice of the change of cast in the “ Pirates ”
■will be found in “Late Theatrical.”
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
For the 365th time since the establishment
opened, a stolid, silent man strode slowly up the stairs,
threw his hat on the peg, “ flopped ” down on the chair,
and called out, “ Roast beef underdone and potatoes”;
and tor the 365th time the lovely little Hebe ‘‘on
dooty” skipped briskly down to the mouth of the
culinary inferno, and presently returned with the
smoking dish. Placing this before her guest she stood
a pace or two back, wiped the comer of her rosy little
mouth for the 365th time, and smiling her sweetest
smile awaited further information from the seat of
■war. None, however, came. The stolid, silent man
simply anointed the dish with the mustard, and then
began the attack. Seeing this, the mortified Hebe
stamped her French elastics twice to ensure attention,
and sharply said, “ Sir, you are a good customer here,
and give little trouble, but you speak never a word to a
girl in the place—you simply eat.” To which the fes-
tive Chesterfield replied, as he went for the water-
bottle, “Madam, I simply come here to eat." The
meeting then adjourned, and Chesterfield now wonders
what brings buck-shot into his beef, and slip-rails into
his tea, since that eventful day.
» * *
It will be remembered (as long as grass grows
or water flows) that when the distinguished and court-
eous Japanese gents from the Euijio were presented to
his worshipful worship the Mayor, they were allowed
to “put it there,” or fill their delicate little hands
with as much as they could hold of his worshipful wor-
ship’s unctuous palm. Everything passed off pleasantly,
and the gang were about to troop off like so many
giants refreshed with Epsom salts, when two of the
comic men approached our civic head and, holding out
their hands, observed, with a smile that was child-like
and bland, “ Your Excellency—fill ’em up again, sir.”
His Excellency, however, had pulled on his Josephine
thirty-sixes, and declined to southern. At the next Coun-
cil meeting it was proposed by Mr. O’Connor that in
future distinguished visitors be allowed to kiss his wor-
ship’s toe, but this was strenuously opposed by Messrs.
Davies, Lees, & Co., as being a superstitious, Popish
practice, and one calculated to bring the whole Cor-
poration into contempt—if such a thing were possible.
* » *
We have lately heard of phenomenal pullers,
singers, phenomenal art-critics, phenomenal
porridge eaters, 'phenomenal corporation contractors,
phenomenal poundkeepers and phenomenal bushrangers,
but what we want to hear of now is a fee-nominal law-
yer. When we get hold of this article we will print his
life-size portrait in our own be-lud, and present each of
our subscribers with a copy thereof and a case of ice to
keep them cool, and half a water melon to sit on whilst
they gaze upon the picture.
♦ » *
The Joseph Miller of the Nooze tells us that
at a recent service of sacred song “ Mr. Ironsides took
the organ upon this occasion instead of taking the
tickets.” This is equal to the funniest “goak” of
either Artemus Ward or Dr. M'Guven, but the joker
missed a oapital opportunity of telling us that Mr. Iron-
sides fingered more notes that night at the organ than
he would if he had perched himself at the door for 250
millions of years—or until the completion of the North
Shore bridge.
» * *
Wednesday’s Ek-koe tells us a beautiful young
lady appeared at the late ball in a dress, apparently a
marvel of millinery, but which proved on close inspec-
tion to be composed of copies of the Sydney Morning
Herald.” If this is true that young lady was the only
interesting item that has graced the Twopenny
Snorer’s columns since it described the assassination
of Julius Ceesar. Besides, what a brilliant opportunity
was lost to write of “ clothes inspection ’’—and thus
secure the thousand pound prize offered to the first one
on the staff who makes a calm deliberate pun.
♦ • »
Sara Bernhardt once essayed to play Rosalind
in “ As You Like It,” but one trial was quite sufficient.
The present theatrical critic of the Holy Howl was
reporting for the Paris Figaro at the time, and, speak-
ing of the scene where Rosalind enters, dressed in
tights and armed with ja two-inch pole, he charitably
observed it was really a matter of considerable doubt
whether Sara had three poles or three legs. Next day
the gifted lady waited on the doubting reporter and
toik the trouble to show him —what one pole could do,
with his head at the farthest end, and her stout arm at
the other. That’s why he left the Figaro.
* * »
Chacun a son gout. The dowdy old dame with
the pseudo teeth and gouty feet who waddles into a
Fancy Dress Ball dressed as Egypt’s proud and warlike
Queen, and the bandy-legged little linen-grocer who
struts about as Achilles, are equally at liberty to con-
sider themselves the very models of those they attempt
to personate; hut, hy the same rule, those who see them
in all their repulsive stupidity should also have the
Privilege of forming their own opinions. After a care-
ful study of the characters who strutted their brief
25i. and 12s. 6d. at the late Austrian “Shivoo,” we
assert that in our ; opinion the Belle of the Ball
was the young lady who dressed herself in blue
and white paper, and went as a seidlitz ponder; and
the cream of the male brigade was the gentleman who
went as a bilious attack, and took the above lady. If
that lady don’t fizz, it’s because she wasn’t well shaken
before taken, —and the fellow with the bile is of course
responsible. * * *
How to widen Oxford-street at the least expense
to Government. Take a tin of kerosene oil and a box
of lucifers; insure the whole block to be removed
ten times its real value, and then —let Nature take its
course. The above recipe is not by Miss Fidler, but if
er-radicate any of the obstacles now thrust for-
ward towards this very desirable object we are perfectly
willing to give the State the benefit of our gigantic
intellect—and take it out in tram tickets.
♦ * *
The following plaintive ad. appears nightly in
the Evening Crash Agence Havas, Place de la
Bourse, Paris.” According to our reading, this in Eng-
lish means “ in the Paris Bourse our agents have us.”
Well, suppose they do, why not stop the paper P Cut off
the supplies, and it will soon be found that the volatile
Parisians can no more do without their Evening Nooze
than they can without the “ Marseillaise” or the Can-
can.
Saturday’s Sixpenny Brimstone declares that
“ the only persons who voted for the opening of the
Museum on Sundays were Papists, Infidels, and Free-
thinkers." The very fact of the Holy Apostle M'Guven
placing Papist before anything in the heavens above, or
the earth beneath, or in the waters under the earth,
clearly shows that there is a tendency on his part to
“ blend ” as it were with Rome; and we may, therefore,
expect to see the lion laying down with the lamb at
no distant date. When they do. Cole will probably buy
the pair, start a “Happy Family” combination, and
charge another shilling to see the big side-show.
* * *
The following is not only a positive fact, but it
is also true—which is rather a novelty in the way of
newspaper facts as we Australians understand them.
It was 6 p.m., and the old lady was sitting on the door-
step of her palatial shanty, on the “Rocks,” when old
lady No. 2 polka’d up and said—“ So, ye wint to bring
Laycock in : well, what wuz he loike ? ” To which
No. 1 replied—” Loike 1 Oh, I declare to Hivin’ if the
Almighty himsilf kim down an’ landid on the Surculir
Kay, there couldn’t be a grater crowd go down to see
him.” There was nothing irreverent in the old lady’s
style of delivery; all the irreverence was in the
thoughts of the man who passed and wondered to him-
self whether the Deity in our days would command so
much popularity.
The Morning Mackay is, it would appear,
singularly unfortunate in the choice of its critics. The
representative of that journal who selected the Romany
performance (which we notice elsewhere) as the scene
upon which to lavish his critical acumen, has given to
the world a theatrical notice which deserves to be
handed down to posterity as a marvel of eloquence.
We have unfortunately not sufficient space at our com-
mand to enable ns to traverse completely she Morning
Mackay notice; but we will endeavour, in a few sen-
tences, to show our readers the kind of “ stuff ” which
is matutinally “ slung” at (say a dozen of them) by a
morning paper. The critical genius, at the commence-
ment of his notice, has the following sonorous period:
•• As an exhibition of what may be attained by ama-
teurs in the pursuit of the histrionic art, the entertain-
ment was remarkably successful, especially in regard
to the development of individual capacity for the duties
undertaken.” Now, if there is any meaning in this at
all which we very much doubt, the idea which the
writer intends to convey is, to pur it mildly, an erro-
neous one. The entertainment, in lieu of being “ remark-
ably successful," was—artistically speaking a dismal
failure; and the actors displayed as much “ individual
capacity” for theatrical representation as a red her-
ring would for a lecture on astronomy. Our stupen-
dous critic then remarks Meg’s Diversion was
the chef d’ceuvre of the evening, and with the exception
of one or two promptings, the piece went very smoothly
indeed.” This phrase is simply ingenuous. The French
word “chef d'reuvre ” does not apply here at all, as even
the merest school-boy would know. What the writer
intended to convey was “piece de resistance ,” but he evi-
dently was determined to slap in his Dubbo French at
all hazards. A little further on we leam that—“ The
habitual playgoer would have considered Meg of last
evening to have been impersonated by a remarkably
genteel (sic) actress if it had not been for a certain
hurried articulation in the impassioned parts.” We
really do not know in what degree “ hurried
articulation” detracts from gentility, but we sup-
pose the author of the article does. It is manifestly
unfair, however, to deny Miss E. Robertson the gen-
tility she undoubtedly possesses, in crediting her
(which he emphatically does) with possessing dramatic
power which she utterly and completely lacks. Theatri-
cal criticism is evidently not in this gentleman’s iline.
His time of an evening is evidently thrown away in
attending theatres and reporting on the performances
which take place there. His nights would be more
profitably employed in wandering about the swamps
and killing mosquitoes with a brickbat.
• * *
There is a place somewhere called Wallerawang.
Concerning the exact topography of this vast metropolis
we know little and care less. That such a place exists,
however, we are certain. For it was only the other day
we saw its name in the. Fenny Morning Corpse. Well,
it would seem that a few weeks back a publican missed
several pewter pots. He had his suspicions, of course,
but as the man who called most for “ purge in its native
pewter” was a very prominent politician, the landlord
kept his suspicions to himself. Meanwhile time went
on and the pewters went off, until, at last, the Wallera-
wang boniface got so short of pewter bar utensils that
he had to measure out a nobbier of rum in a soup-ladle,
and check the neighbors’ half pints with a sauce-boat.
One morning two smartly attired strangers arrived in
the township, and proceeded at once to spend money
freely. The particular boniface we have mentioned
came in for a large share of their custom, but he was
grieved, when they continually requested to be served
with their malt in a pewter, at not being in a position
to accommodate them. On his stating his inability to
comply with their requests in this regard, the strangers
invariably laughed consumedly. Well the third day after
their arrival the sergeant of police entered the cara-
vanserai, and held for a few moments animated conver-
sation with the strangers, at the conclusion of which
they left with that officer, walking in the direction of
the lock-up. A little later the landlord discovered
through the medium of the “ crushers” that he had
taken the greater part of his pewter pots over the
counter from the late guests—in bad two shilling
pieces. At the present time the ingenious coin manu-
facturers are engaged in the manipulation of metal less
attractive—road metal.
♦ • *
Messrs. G. H. Stephen’s advertisement of their
Ivanhoe wines in The Bulletin has already borne
fruit. We have received from a gentleman, who appears
to have a Catherine-wheel in hisbrain, a communication
abounding with eccentric texts and still more eccentric
spelling. He writes:—“ln your Issue of april 9th
appears an advertisment of Prize “Ivanhoe” Wines,
acompanied with an Engraving of a pulpit and open
Bible (and its clerical occupant).” Passing over the
“ Bible and its clerical occupant ’’—poor occupant!—we
come to the part where he roundly takes Messrs. G. H.
Stephen & Co. to task. “ Let me ask,” says he, “ Messrs.
Stephen and Co. two or three questions. Ist. Does that
which causeth derision cheer the Heart of man ?” To
this we answer “ yes.” His own letter causes us deri-
sion, by which our hearts are very much cheered,
indeed. But let us have a little more of him“ When
the Messrs. Stephen and Co. have given an ocular proof
that the “ Ivanhoe ” prize wine is prciseley (sic) the same
kind of vcine as that Jtecomcnded (sic) by St. Paul to
Timothy, then they mil he justejied (sic) in quoting St.
Paul’s Eecomendation (sic). But till then I strongly
object to the assumption— assumptions ar (sic) not Facts.
Hoping that in the intrest (sic) of truth and fair play,
you will insert this in your next issue.” We are very
sorry that we have not the writer’s permission to give
‘his name to the world. A man of his wondrous literary
attainments, marvellous argumentative power, and pro-
found logical acumen should not be allowed to remain
eitherunihonoured orunsung. What he asks is but simple
—“ Ocular proof that Messrs. Stephen’s wine is the same
as that recommended by St. Paul to Timothy.” Now,
the point is, does this put that firm of wine-merchants
in a hole ? Not at all! They say in the olden time their
ancestors had a branch house at Syracuse, and em-
ployed Paul as a canvasser; and that it was, of course,
his duty to recommend the Ivanhoe wines to his friends.
When, however, they found him getting the revival
mania, and joining the Salvation Army, they were re-
luctantly compelled to part with him. Messrs. Stephen
furthermore desire to inform our correspondent that he
can have “ ocular proof ” of as many bottles as he likes
to pay for. We shall be happy to insert his reply in a
conspicuous position—in our advertising columns.
• « *
We have to acknowledge the receipt of a copy
of verses headed “No Sunday Slavery,” and signed
“ Fluta.” “ Fluta’s ” poem is written on what looks
like a leaf out of his master’s ledger, is liberally em-
blazoned with greasy thumb marks, and is apparently
intended as a satire on our advocacy of Sunday freedom.
The verse itself is as lame as Parkes' excuses, and its
general style recalls to our entranced remembrance
that delicious song sung by Lewis Scott on the occasion
of the opening of the Gaiety Theatre. Sings “ Fluta”:
“ Some Sundays I go by train, and, paying the fare.
Secure at least once a week, a fresh change of air.
Perhaps a drink or two costs (sic) me a trifle more.
But freedom for the week is done when Sunday’s o’er.”
The above stanza is in his conversational style, but he
is more lofty as he goes on. Here, now, is a verse that
positively bursts with majestic grandeur; —
“ Sometimes, for change of scene, I make straight for
the coast.
And my bosom friends know of its pleasures I boast.
If by the road I hire (sic), to lay the rising dust.
Pour something down my throat, of course I feel I
must.”
Certainly; nothing can be plainer ! Now, this is the
sort of poetry we trully love and cherish. There is
nothing about the feathery foam of the ocean, and of
“ the moon’s summer glow.” It is the poetry of the
very remote future, and will be sung by satyrs to a
kerosene-tin accompaniment when “ Murmurs of the
Stream” have faded from the recollection of the
envenomed reader. One last, mellifluous stanza: —
“ * I wouldn’t be a slave,’ at any rate on Sunday;
My week of slavery mustn’t begin till Monday.
The god that I worship is the idol of gold,
For that all my interests eternal I’ve sold.”
Here is delightful candour! here is frankness! We
wonder, though, “ Fluta,” how much you got for your
“interests eternal!" What was it, now?—Two long
beers and a plug of “ tin-tag ?” or three pairs of cotton
socks and a box-iron without a handle ? Come, unbosom
yourself, and—but stay! Tell us all about it in another
poem ; bring that lyric round to the office yourself, and
receive from us the reward you are justly entitled to.
Before you came, however, make an appointment, so
that we can have the gun loaded.
* * •
“ Eadical” sends us some verses on a marriage
which took place at Mudgee, between a Miss Morrow
and a Mr. Paine. Our correspondent is rather a feeble
poet, for, although he favors us with three verses, the
only rhyme he can get to "Morrow” is “sorrow.” We
will clip a specimen of his style blindfold. Le void !—
“ The Canadians have late you know W. T.,
Thrashed Australians, much to their sorrow,
But you will no doubt, wipe out the defeat.
Since espousing your own Dierest Morrow.”
This seems to us to need some explanation. How by
marrying Miss Morrow can W. T. wipe out our defeat
by Hanlan? We pause for a reply, and in the mean-
time advise “ Democrat” on the next occasion on which
he honors us with poetry to put into it a little more
rhyme and a great more reason.
• » »
It occurred in this way. He was a new chum of
the most pronounced type. He wore a ten-inch jacket,
pants three feet round the knee, and a hat that could
only be perceived through a microscope. He was doing
the lardy-de-dah on Coogee beach, surrounded by a bevy
of fair ones, to whom he was imparting pleasing little
fictions about the wealth of his relations. Suddenly an
Andalusian orb—a melting optic, that was embellished
with a half-inch fringe—espied a bottle dancing upon
the billows. “Ah,” she exclaimed, with pathos, at the
same time producing a handkerchief with a point-lace
border, “capture that bottle, Reginald. Perhaps ’tis
the record of some fearful shipwreck; the last agonizing
words of an affianced lover to his bride that is never
Quick—that bottle! ” Reginald paused but a moment.
He glanced at his patent leathers, at his immaculate
white gaiters, and at his spotless continuations. Then,
with a sigh, he darted forward to the margin of the
illimitable ocean. Forward came the bottle on a foam-
crested billow. Reginald made a grab, but was too late.
Once again he followed up the receding billow, yet in
vain. Then he watched —lurked like a tiger to seize
his prey. Not a word was spoken, his fair companions
gazing at him with breathless interest. All of a sudden
a mighty wave arose. “Now or never” was the cry.
In dashed the hero, as the billow receded, reached well
out, and—stumbled. Then there was a gasp—a peal of
silvery laughter ;—and another wave, sand-laden and
foaming, burst upon him Two minuces
later a dripping form might have been seen perched
upon a rock, endeavouring to wipe the sand out of its
eyes with a wet pockethandkerchief. It was hatless,
its pants were “ busted,” and its gaiters lost. But, in
spite of all this misery, it proudly held aloft in its
dexter hand a bottle containing two inches of cloudy
vinegar and a fragment of pickled gherkin.
♦ ♦ ♦
Gough or Cough-town is the proposed new
temperance township which some of “ the anointed ”
propose selling in a few days. The new settlement is
laid out with the streets running at right angles, and
the corners would make first-class stands for well-
conducted pubs. But such a thing is not to be
tolerated. Even the aroma of breweries is to be tabooed
from this paradise. There is a square in the
centre of the proposed township, which is named
after Sir Wilfred Lawson, and round about it
are Davies-street, Roseby-street, Harris-street, Hensen-
street, M'Beath Square, Penfold Promenade, &c.
By-and-bye these names, no doubt, will be changed
to “ Broken Jug Lane,” “ Corkscrew Comer,”
“ Boulevard de Shandygaff,” “ Parade de Bishop-
barker,” &c., &c. What we are glad, however, to see
is that a temperance township is being formed dis-
interestedly by a number of the supporters of the
movement. They get nothing out of it, and it will provd
a real blessing to mothers. We fear, however, that the
great apostle will run up the first pub., and that there
will be a dispute among the brethren because it wasn’t
started on the love-of-God principle—in which all go
whacks. _
V.
A writer in the New York Sun says that he
possesses schemes and grammars of several new lan-
guages, constructed on logical principles by several
different persons. One uses only the musical notes for
letters. It can be spoken, used on a musical instru-
ment, or rapped, as a telegraph.
At Newark, N.J., the other day, Franz Lammens
and Margaret Meierhofer were hanged from the same
scaffold, for murder. At Williamsport, Pa., a week or
two later, George Smith and Catherine Miller met the
same fate, for having jointly murdered an old man, the
husband of the convict last named.
The last man in the tripos list at the Cambridge
University was this year presented with a large wooden
shovel, upon which the arms of his college were em-
blazoned in brilliant colours. It was let down from the
gallery of the theatre by means of two strings, and the
recipient carried it off gracefully, amid roars of laughter
and loud applause. The time-honoured spoon has been
abolished.
It is related that in the old days of Melbourne,
when Bourke-street was bush, the genial Nosebloom
rolled pleasantly home, and on his way fell over a re-
clining bullock. As the disturbed animal rose to its
legs, the bell that hung from its neck rang musically.
And Nosebloom promptly said, as he sat on the ground,
“ All right, waiter. Hot for me, but no sugar." And
he lived to see eighty.
In the early days of Australia a notorious bush-
ranger, who was lying in gaol, sent for the army
chaplain, and told him that he was anxious—to quot a
from Sydney Smith —to abandon the errors of the
Church of Borne for those of the Church of England.
He ingenuously gave his motive somewhat thus:
“ Well, s-sorr, you know I was s-s-sintinced to be
hung?” “Yes; go on." “Well, s-sorr, t-two days
before I was h-hung F-father Murphy came into m-my
cell. I had on a p-p-pair av red s-s-silk stockings, an’
his riveience axed me t-t-to give them to him, and I
d-d-did. B-but I got my reprieve, an’ wasn’t h-h-hung
at all. Well, of coorse, whin F-father Murphy come to
s-see me, I-I I axed him to give me b-b-back my red
s-silk stockings. B-but he wouldn’t. S-s-so I t-tould
’um what I thought of ’urn, an’ I-IT’ve c-come over to
the Church of England." The malefactor eventually
did swing.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
(BY ONE OF Us.)
In place of the usual exhibition at Bowen Park,
Brisbane, this year there is to be a Great Fair.
The Miltonians are anxious to exchange their
preacher, “ White,” for the South Brisbane “Smith.”
The latter don’t see it.
Spencer Browne, the new “editorman” of the
Observes, comes from the Townsville Heral». Once
he ran a paper at Cooktown.
Of the blacks originally belonging to Townsville
not one remains. Rumor says they have gone “beehe-
de-mering ” against their will.
“ Dochter” O’Doherty strongly objects to Sir
Arthur Kennedy’s “ official” utterances anent agitators
at the opening of the new Grammar School.
An old and well-known limb of the law is
about to lead a young and lively barmaid to the
Hymenal altar. The bar weds the bar, in fact.
More than half the staff of the Bowen Tele-
graph Office were lately laid up with fever. And yet
the residents say it is the healthiest place in the North.
The Queensland census was taken on the night
of the 3rd inst. The Brisbane Observer says some
persons stayed out all night to defraud the Government.
Little Morris, of Townsville, was recently
retained by the Towers Municipal Council to prosecute
their late Town Clerk, for embezzlement, at a fee of 100
guineas.
Three aristocratic young ladies condescended to
race the butcher hoy at Toowong, the other day. They
beat that boy, too; and butcher boys take a lot of
beating.
It is rumoured that a certain exploring celebrity
—not Leichhardt —recently visited his old haunts at
Dalby, and on being recognized, at once made tracks for
the Banya mountains.
Swanwick has struck a patch already at the
Towers, and panned out 200 guineas in a local mining
case. He has since expressed himself as favorably im-
pressed with the country.
A blackfellow, after trying all he knew to strike
some patent safety matches, returned them to the
giver with the remark, “ That fellow plenty make him
fire, suppose you got him fire-stick.”
The Easter encampment is near, and the fearful
Volunteers seek the Dr. Syntax stylo of charger. Wind
is plentiful amongst them, but at Lytton there are no
mills of that description, fortunately.
A great military swell is about to become a
benedict and pay a visit to the land o’ cakes. The chief
of the staff also seeks a happy bourne. Brisbane
maidens sigh, and envy the chosen ones.
Says the Northern Miner During the
hearing of the libel case, Mr. Swanwick said, ‘Mr.
Morgan’s jokes are worthy of Punch Byrne.’ Replied
Mr. Morgan, ‘ Byrne “ punched " you, and there was no
joke in that.’ ”
Brisbane young ladies have a set of signals by
which they notify to their beaux the state of the
domestic weather, and whether a visit is advisable or
otherwise. It is all done with a handkerchief from a
balcony, but no clue to the code has yet been got by
outsiders.
A certain old resident of a Northern seaport
recently sent a note to a young fellow-townsman thus:
“ I will be in town on Wednesday, and unless I find you
and my daughter man and wife I will shoot you.” The
young chap suddenly remembered that he had pressing
business down south, and left to attend to it.
Thaddy O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, at
Charters Towers, the boss libel man, has run against
| Swanwick already. He says if Swanwick is not a good
common lawyer, and an especially good mining lawyer,
he had better “hump his drum” back to Brisbane.
By the way, Thaddy had two libel cases on for hearing
before the Northern District Court, and of course had
a cross action in each case.
William Henry has got a smart new buggy for
"the moke.” Talking about that moke, W. H. had a
conversation with a high official of the police depart-
ment, who sees more of horses than most people. “ I
can’t for the life of me keep that herse (?) of mine in
condition,” said W. H.. “I’ve tried all kinds of medi-
cines with him” (and he enumerated three or four
horse medicines) “but they’re no use. What would
you advise me to do ?” And the answer came —“ Have
you tried com with him ?” Too bad, wasn’t it ?
We have had a real breach of promise case,
Ohlrich v. Bromberg. Verdict for plaintiff, whose
feelings, the jury found, needed repairs to the extent of
£250. An affiliation case between the same parties
came next, but the Bench refused to make an order.
The defendant has now filed his schedule, and will
thus, no doubt, obtain relief from liability. Now, when
a newspaper man has a verdict given against him for
slander, he has to pay or go to gaol for a year. He
can’t save himself from incarceration by “filing up.”
However, I suppose that, in your colony, the fierceness
of the law, the judges, and the juries arises from the
fact that works on “ ancient history ” cannot be con-
veniently written.
“Endymion,” in The Queenslander, re-
ferring to education generally, and the advantages of
higher education in particular, has this sentence:
“ Now there are a great many boys in Scotland who
have had the same experience, and the Scotch are a
people who rise like quicksilver to the top of any
society into which they penetrate.” What does it
mean? Quicksilver is one of the heaviest metals
known, and it is not much given to “rising.” It is
hard to get the hang of this, unless he means the
quicksilver in the thermometer tubes, which, if put
through a proper course of training at Rockhampton,
can be backed to rise higher and stay up longer than
any Scotchman Endymion can produce. Any other
reading of the sentence is pretty rough on the Macs.
The following letter was sent by the wife of a
lawyer in a Central Queensland (seaport) town to one
of her husband’s supposed boon companions:—“To
Mr. . Sir, —I can’t see as your business with my
poor little husband is so pressing as to necessitate the
frequent consultations you have together at so many
incongruous places and out of office hours. It is
serpents like you, sir, whose years should have taught
you better, that lead my husband, ,who is not yet fifty,
to his ruin. And this is to warn you that lam not
* the girl that’ll kiss him when he comes reeling home.’
On the contrary; quite the other thing. The words
are from a song I hear him singing, when, in company
with Mrs. Gamp, I watch outside the many consulting
rooms to which you and he retire; but lam the girl
that’ll slap him, &c. I may inform you for your future
guidance that Mrs. Gamp and I will take up a position
at a friend’s house mostly every day, whose windows
command your haunts; not a movement escapes us,
and this is to warn you to drop his acquaintance, i.e.,
my poor lamb’s, who would be the best of men but for
snakes in the grass like you, sir. Tours affectionately,
Mrs. .”
A census-taker related the following as an inci-
dent in his experience while taking the recent enumera-
tion in his district: “ What does your husband do ? ”
asked the census man. “He aint doin’ nothin’ at this
time of the year,” replied the young wife. “Is he a
pauper?” asked the census man. She blushed scarlet
to the ears. “Law, no!" she exclaimed somewhat
indignantly; "we aint been married more than six
months.”
“A woman, bearing in her arms an infantine
treasure, carefully swaddled, its youthful lineaments
hidden from view by a thick lace veil, the other day
passed through the octroi barrier of this city ” (says a
Milanese paper). ‘“That is a remarkably quiet child
of yours,’ observed the searching official to the nurse.
* Yes, indeed it is, dear little angel! rejoined the latter;
‘ scarcely ever cries,- and when it does whimper a little
I can quiet it in a moment with a lump of sugar.’ *lt
must be quite a treasure,’ replied he of the octroi; ‘ just
step down, there’s a good woman, and bring it into my
office ; I would like to have a leok at it, being a family
man myself.’ The nurse grew pale; she had, however,
no excuse for noncompliance with the request, so she
descended from the omnibus and followed the fatherly
official into his bureau, where it was found that the
‘infant’ consisted of fourteen pounds of fine bologna
sausage neatly packed up in the snow-white robes of
guileless babyhood. ”
Api*il Jl6, 1881.


Public Compai
The mercantile ban]
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund...,
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, E.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King
AUDITOES:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER :
P. A. A. Wilsoi
SEGEETAEY:
Heotor Allen,
Southern Branch, 687, Ge<
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bank
London Office, 30, Great S
Director—Edward Chapi
Agent—G. H. Alexandi
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the mostfavoiu
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England f
c
OENWALL FIRE AND ft
ANCE COMP AN
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
EESEEVE FUND
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
* G. A. LLOYD AI
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEI
SIDNEY.
Fbotographei
458 GEORGE I
Opposite thb Mae;
PHOTOGRAPHY IN ALL I
ENLARGEMENTS IN PEEM.
OMER’S
►ARLOUR
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) ’
805 GEOEGE ST
Opposite the Railway T
Especially esteemed for his port]
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d pi
NOTICE
JROARTY,
• PHOTOGRAPHER,
t«O4 GEOEGE
BEI
Begs to inform his numerous patro
completed extensive alterations ii
ducive to the successful working of
ness, having imported, at great
most modem appliances from the I
and having a stall of first-class a
studying the comfort of his cust<
success, in every particular, he tru
Public Compau
COMMEECIAL BANKING
SYDNEY.
Established 1831
Incorporated by Act of Co
Capital, £575,000. Beserve F
. Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman; '
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy,
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Mi
Auditors :
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E. S
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson t
Messrs. Cape and Westg
Head Office— Georgo-stn
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt,
Gaden, Branch Inapi
With Branches at Haymarket, Georj
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombar
Directors: J. A. Yonl, Esq., C.M
Esq.; F. H. Hogg,
Manager: Nathaniel Co
Branches in New South Wales
Aamidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Begs
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, I
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar,
Sobar, Cooma, Coraki, Coonam
udal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes,
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundaga
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Twee
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandi
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Que
Eichmond, Shoarhaven, Singleten,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Wall
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wei
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbi
Maryborough, and Bockhamj
Agencies in the Col
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria,
Australasia, Colonial Bank ol
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of 6
National Bank of Australasia,
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank c
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Diem:
New Zealand : National Bank of 1
Agencies beyond the C
London : The London and Westmi
London and County Bank.
Liverpool : The Liverpool Union I
Manchester : The Manchester and
Ireland: The Belfast Banking
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank o
San Francisco: The Bank of Br
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de C
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgt
India, China and Singapore : Thi
India, Australia, and China;
Mercantile Bank of India, Lond
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercanti
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of L
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co,
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants
advances on approved security, al
fixed deposits, negotiates produce I
issues drafts or letters of credit, an
tects bills payable at any of the ah
elsewhere, at current rates; collects
in public companies, and interest <
for its customers in the investment
ties in Great Britain or in the colon
to undertake the agency of Banks o:
be mutually agreed upon.
The mutual assueanc
YICTOEIA (LIMIT
Established a.d. IE
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Sj
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chai
Ebenezer Vickery, Esi
Andrew Drysdale, Esq
This Society is established for Lif
granting of Annuities and Endowmi
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding 1
proportionate amount of the entir
Society at every distribution therec
LOANS granted on Mortgage or c
combined with Life Assurance.
m
I
m
S&5, ■■
yy i MIWt«aU«Ut9JBItTRI aUTW THE WORLD
Y****UFamMM BT W.OAYIISiCf GOtnMUHMH.&M
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
m
w
m
rjIHE BEST PAINT IN
%>
gjss
tLAsrte
THE PACIFIC RUBBE
is mixed ready for
snpplied in cans containing 1 gal,
These cans form a convenient Pa
complete.
Similar testimony to the followin
ns:—“Woollahra, August 20th, 1881
EUBBER PAINT to be all that ii
and Bright, and owing to its large
I am inclined to think it is cheaper
My own house was painted with it i
and appears as fresh, clean and glos
last week —the same with the fence
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC 1
will cover 35 Square Tards—one t
coats ; 18 sq. yards, thn
Sample Cards of Colours and
application. Packages of any
forwarded daily free of charge to
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMS
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, nea;
Ag. c h u e c
• 147 FORK ST E
Opposite the Mark
IMPORTER AND MANUFi
Coffee, Peppers, Spi<
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUI
CHEAPEST HOUSE II
for Liverpool and Black Horn
Choicest Sage and Majoram on h
680,000 AMERICAN SE
Just arrived, all si
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sai
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 11
Canterbury.
GLASS
STEAM GOACH AND W 1
WOEKS,
Haebis-steeet, off Geo
and
Adjoining the Darling Hai
S. G. would beg to draw the pa]
Export Merchants to the large c
Spokes always on hand, which v
saving in freight to purchasers
timber in the rough.
S G. has also always in stock
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express
Vans, Drays, Ac., Ac.
I « n k/jjL lias**. A/v +.V»o+. Via 1
EW REFLECTING LAMI
KEROSENE.
&
\W/\\
FOE LIGHTING SHOP WI
BAEWELL AND FISHEI
GAS BURNERS JUST I
GLOBES, &c.
J. HAWKSFOED, 65 MAR]
T
HOMAS WEBB i
GLASS AND CHINA ME
BOND STEE]
SYDNEY.
WHOLESALE AND BETA
FOB
WEDGWOOD & MINTON’J
Inspection invite
pEO BONO P
THE MUTUAL TRADE PEOTE
TION OP N. S. 1
J. HURST, Secret.
Offices: 32 BRIDGE STREE
Established upon the most improve
for the protection of Merchants I
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, u
the leading Mercantile communit
The following business is underta
or through the intervention of
Heitor:—
The recovery of rents and debts
otherwise, by written or personal a
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or assi
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock, a
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Registered Doc
searched.
The Certificates of fradnlent or’unp
opposed in the interests of crec
Debts proved in insolvent estates,
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and ma


Chemists and Drug
T
AKE NO MOE
but try
EANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZI
Do yon SUFFER from HEADi
Then try Ri
PODOPHYLL
Do you Complain of Indigestior
Take a few doses of 1
PODOPHYLL
Do yon Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and 1
EANDERSOh
Do yon constantly suffer from B
If so remember
PODOPHYLI
will soon cure, if taken as di
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDIC'
Are any'of your children sick a
can safely give ohem one o
for the small members of
TAKE WEL
Eemember this, and always
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pro
EDWARD EOW and O
45 and 47 George-str
EOTAL LETTEI
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE
JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTI
Guaranteed to hi
Free from all poisonous qualitie
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Plants
in the Bush of New Sout
This Ointment is not a mere cat
public, nor does it require any puff
as it has been so well proved for th
that it is impossible that the public
long deceived. In fact, people are n
lous regarding its efficacy (never 1
article of the kind before which t
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the m(
High and low, rich and poor, have
fits from its use, and scarcely any
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the c<
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF TI
which, taken altogether, prove the £
to be the Eighth Wonder of the W
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, t
hands and lips, bunions, soft corr
casnalities attending the human fr;
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA!
the
WONDER OP THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perfe
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External f
may be cured by using Josephson
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Co:
moved by applying constantly for
•son's Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns an
can have immediate relief by apj
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriat
tion when a remedy like Jose]
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles v
Josephson’s Australian Ointment it
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and ■
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fr
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S i
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storek
and Is 6d each throughout the colo
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD RO
CENTRAL PH
78 (Late 84) KING SI
Chemists and Drt
ÜBL I C
THE following Lii
WATSON’S RENOWNED I
MEDICINES,
bo well and favourably known to th
Watson’s (Vegetable) Anti
Watson’s (Vegetable) Wor
Watson’s Gingerbread Woi
Watson’s Compound Chlor
Watson’s Strengthening E;
Watson’s Australian Venn
Watson’s Excelsior Tootht
Watson’s Concentrated Go
Elixir (a most valuabL
can be obtained, wholesale and r<
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
681 GEORGE STRI
POTHECAEIE
14 OXFORD STRI
Near Htde Park C
(N.B.—The Tram-car stop
W. D. EAMES, Pi
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLED
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of 1
Societies of Victoria and Nev
W. D. E. thanks the public anc
for the support hitherto accorded b
Irrespective of Club prescriptioi
has dispensed 34,000 original presc
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney —
FACTS SPEAK FOR TH3
Every proscription is CAREFU
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbei
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folk
E AME S’S QUINI
Which improves the appetite ai
stomach.
EAMES’S DIGEST]
For severe cases whore the gastr
and when sickness and flatulen
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANT]
Which relieve the bowels gently, t
naturally healthy functions
organs.
w.
Business Annonnc
H. P A
PIANOFORTE WARI
352 George-stree
PIANOFORTES. PIA:
JUST RECEIVED. JUSI
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE
A splendid stock to sele
EVERY RENOWNED
AMERICAN ORG
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and sj
OVER ALL OTK
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATION
HARMONIUM
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENO 1
in all the various m
A FEW GOOD SECOND-H
at low prices, now in
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hu
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters
and Warren’s, and Smith and C
352 GEORGE S 1
Opposite Wynyard-s
Sydney.
WINE GROWER AND I
Splendid DINNER WINES, from
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 21s,
FINE OLD WINES, suitable for
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS: 40 Hi
Country Orders receive proi
Tobacconist)
JAMES
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leai
Best Imported Bra
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and fi
159 PITT STI
Next Post Offio
*
A
>nf2
TIN TAG TOBA
None axe genuine but the R 1
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or TANKE
DIXSON & SOI
155 YORK STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA GIGA
MILD, FRAGRANT, 4 I
to.
A
Manufactured bj
T. SAT W E .
AT THE
EAGLE TOBA C C (
Clarence-street, Sy
E.
CLARKE A]
Wholesale and Beta
GROCE
Are acknowledged to
THE BEST TEA IN
THE CHEAPEST H
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and
GROCERIES,
Country Orders promptly a
193 OXFORD S
—v.«at
April 16,1881.


JJLAHON’S HEALTH SAL]
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALI
JJLADON’S HEALTH SALI
HEALTH SALI
HEALTH SALI
JgLADON’S HEALTH SALI
BLADON’S HEALTH SALI
A combination of Oxygenated
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and 0
Taken according to direction
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is
rational remedy as a preventive or c
all Functional Irregularities of the
ache, Lowness of Spirits* Habitua
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sic!
Indigestion, the effects propuced
dulgence in rich food, or the i
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, Ac.;
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphth<
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, cl:
diseases. It is especially serviceab
and should entirely supersede th(
aperients. Children take it with
vigorating effect of an occasional do
to successfully combat the insidious
It effectually destroys the Poison G
contracted in our daily walk throu
alterative and enriching qualities it
the vital fluid to perform, in a healtl
functions in the wonderful economy
piece—Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chemii
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH S
may justly be termed a BLOOD DIS
PPROYED BY THE
Govemmeni
10th J
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I h
that the parcel was received in goi
reason of my not writing to you befc
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline' shoi
am now directed to inform you ti
considers it MOST EFFIC AGIO US
“I also can vouch for the same, am
pleasant aperient.
“ I am. Sir,
“ Yours faithi
“ Reginald
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
B LADON’S HE AL TI
The Australian Churchu
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVE
We can honestly recomn
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFA
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRU
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, I
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND.GEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED .
Turret Clofcks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of aU
Plain figures—Low prii
NJO Y L
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS I
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH.
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot .
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS.
Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale:—
Onr Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
CC
00
CD
DC
CD
OUR C
C
j We
Only th<
CO
Boys’ ar
IT3
CD
— I
<£
UJ
CC
CD
1
Our Stoc
f
For evt
S
New
Gents’.!
own
7/6, wc
Ourim
chases e:
nndersel
establisl
We ab
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
it would
copy, wi
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
GOWING BROTHERS’
»
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET,
10s 6d DOUBLI
SILK NAGASAKI
Frames, are the best
Quality, ditto, ditto
opened this week.
CATE shipment of tl
READY MADI
in CUT, MATEE'y
TWEED SUITS, ex
ti*n of gentlemen sp
shrunk and well cut,
from 12s 6d to 80s.
ALL GOODS MASKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND S(
GOWING BROT
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Centr
AND
oort rrDA-Dnn cirrroTvnrn i ir t»_ r
QNCE USED ALTA
B
i
Trademark “Arm and Dolly” on
ont which none is genuine. Bet
HUDSON'S EXTR
m
AIVVM'
TRADE
MAR
The GRAND GOLD MEI
HIGHEST MEDAL, Pi
HIGHEST AWARD, Sy
LATHEES FEEELT, SOFT
AND SHOULD ALWAYS 1
For Washing Clothes, Linen, I
For Scouring Floors, Greasy "V
E
ACTS WHICH GONCER]
AT SOME PERIOD O]
Houses famished for £ 15
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £50
House
House
House
House
FULL INFORMATION
House furnishing is not an easy te
are of great assistance; they show
tainable for certain sums of mony,
many things which might otherwise
THE NEW GOODS CONSTA1
KEEPS EVERYTHING NICE
If you have £15 to spend If you
If you have £25 to spend It you
If you have £35 to spend If you
If you have £50 to spend If you
YOU CAN SPEND I
ADVANTAGE
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHIN
CAMPBELL BRO:
(Late W. B. Campb
ROYAL FUENISHIN(
426 & 428 GEORGE S
Next the Royal Hi
Open every evening until i
M A N L T
THE KOOKABURRA.
A Nihilist—the cricketer whose score is 0.
Man wants but little here below, and he gets it.
When discharged for sleeping on duty a watch-
man got a knapsack.
Wunn Lung would be a good name for a con-
umptive Chinaman.
Two Celtic constellations —Orion’s belt and
Hennessy’s three star.
The past water famine nearly ruined most of the
milkmen about Sydney.
Learning is well enough, but it hardly does to
give a £lOOO education to a £1 boy.
French students study anatomy solely from what
fashion presents to them at the Parisian halls.
Why should the heroine in the play Always die
of consumption ? Let us have dropsy for a change.
They tell us matches are made in Heaven, but
somehow they never smell that way when you strike
'em.
“ Would that I were priest-ridden!” thought
the charcoal-burner’s horse, as the priest’s well-fed hack
cantered past.
“My husband is very dear to me. I believe the
exact figures are something like £250,000 per annum."
—Baroness Burdett-Coutts.
In a discussion with a temperance lecturer a
toper asked : “If water rota your boots, what effect
must it have on the coats of your stomach ? ”
That there is no place like home strikes a man
most forcibly when he finds it’s ten minutes past one
and the parson has only reached the third lastly.
A book from the pen of Mr. D. L. Moody, of
Revival fame, has appeared at Chicago. It has for its
title “ Heaven, where it is; its inhabitants, and how to
get there.”
A Reminiscence of St. Patrick’s Day. — Mick. —
“ Begorra, they foined me foive pounds for sphliting
the polisman’s skull, but, be the powers, I laid him up
for a month.”
“Do you follow a sedentary occupation?”
asked a J.P. jocosely of a vagrant. “Yes,” was the
response, “ all the money I have had in ten years I got
from sitting on juries.”
Newspaper reporters seldom die early. They
are too tough. Many of them are married and live
happily with their wives, because they never see them
except when they come home to bed.
Even the late Thomas Carlyle—shrewd and out-
spoken as he was—could never account for the fact that
the man who talked like an angel invariably had a devil
of a time of it at home with his wife,
‘ Goak ’ by a Melbourne visitor to Hawkesbury
Races (consequent on the awful heat each day). Why
is it that Indian com grows so well about Richmond ?
Because it is so amaize-ingly hot there!
“ Tour government has no backbone,” shrieked
David Gaunson in his salad days at Mr. Service. “ Per-
haps not, young man,” retorted the cynical Scotsman,
“ but it has more backbone than jawbone.”
Are “ cherry-lips,” set in a pout,
A case of “ sweetness long drawn out ?”
Girls suck their lips to make them thin—
A case of sweetness long drawn in.
There was a young woman named Hannah,
Who stepped on a rotten banana ;
With a dull, heavy “ thud ”
She sat down in the mud
In a very ridiculous mannah. —
Scene —A Loan Office. (Enter a Customer).
Customer— l want a loan. What are your terms for
£lO for a month. Clerk— Fffty shillings, sir, if you
give two sureties. Would you like to see my principal ?
Customer—No, thank you. The interest’s quite enough
for me. (Exit.)
She met him at the door and ushered him in;
then she said: “The weather has changed rather
suddenly.” “ Yes, got damp quick,” he replied, and to
this day he cannot account for her leaving the room so
unceremoniously, and the “ old man ” appearing and
conducting him out.
“ In this wicked world there are sheep and
wolves. We, my dear brethren,” said the parson, “we
are the sheep,” (pause)—“ who are the wolves ? ”
(Another pause). Accomodating Yankee in the con-
gregation : “ Dem it all, stranger, ruther’n see this
hyar play stopped. I’ll be tho wolves.” (Sensation.)
“ What are you doing there ? ” calmly asked an
elderly and pious-looking man of a young fellow who
had fallen over some orange-peel, and was rubbing his
thigh with considerable energy. “ Doing!" he
exclaimed, pressing his jaws together to keep back a
volley of profanity; “I am trying to be a Christian.”
A jroung lady six months after a happy marriage,
on being asked if she was much troubled with cold feet,
simpered hesitatingly, and with ingenuous simplicity
replied: "Ye-yes,; but they’re not my own.” We
clip this item from the Holt Howl, just to let religious
people see that that journal is going to the devil
straight.
Take care of the Pence. — Sir Gorgius Salmon
(about visiting Europe, sends out P.P.C. cards to his
friends). —“ John, James, and Thomas, take these letters
to the post.” John. —“ Beg parding. Sir Gorgius, but
all the ongvelopes is open——” Sir G. S.—“ I meant
to leave them that way. They only require a penny
stamp if the envelope is not sealed."
He was at breakfast wrestling with a piece of
remarkably tough veal. His wife said to him : “Yon
always say there’s something to be thankful for in every-
thing. I guess you’d be puzzled to find something to be
thankful for in that veal.” “ Not at all,” he cheerfully
responded, stopping to breathe ; “I was just thinking
how grateful we should be that we met it when it was
young.”
We sat alone; your little hand
Lay on the table by my own.
Only a little hand and yet
I cannot, while I live forget
The tremor of profound regret
When I saw how your hand had grown.
We parted; but your little hand
Lay on the table cold and fair ;
Wide was the scope its numbers spanned;
Three bright-robed queens, serene and bland.
Two rampant jacks, a happy band ;
While I had only one small pair.
Shoes with india-rubber soles are now fashion-
able. Well, a man who lived in a three-story house
got through the skylight the other day to try
and find out how it was that the ceiling was leaking.
Missing his foothold he shot over on the flags beneath.
Fortunately he had on a pair of new india-rubber boots
with soles of unusual thickness. When his feet struck
he rebounded into the air; then he bounced down and
bounced up again, and ever since he has been hopping
backward and forward. Every time he ascended it was
noticed that his height became greater, until at last at
each rebound into space he vanished from the vision
of the astonished lookers-on; the time between each
ascension increased, and scientists have calculated that
before long his re-appearance will be regarded as an im-
portant astronomical event.
The latest “ craze ” in the old country is granu-
lar wheat-meal bread, which is found to be especially
rich in phosphatic salts, containing 200 per cent, more
than white bread! These salts go to form the bones
and teeth, which, according to medical men, decay
much more rapidly at the present day than they did
formerly. The cause is attributed to the gradual
elimination from the diet of those elements of wheaten
flour which are rich in phosphatic salts.
The Chinese call a blustering, harmless fellow
“a paper tiger.” A man who places too high a valua-
tion on himself they compare to “ a rat falling into a
scale and weighing itself,” “A hunchback making a
bow” is what they call overdoing a thing. A spend-
thrift they compare to “a rocket,” which goes off at
once; and a man who expends his charity on remote
objects, neglecting his own family, is said to “ hang a
lantern on a pole, which is seen afar, but gives no light
below.”
April 16, 1881.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Gladstone is 71.
Lady Jervois and her daughters are on a visit
-to Hobart
Sir James Martin, C.J., presides at the Albury
and Deniliquin assizes.
General Colley, it appears, was shot by a Boer
at a distance of four paces.
Matt. Morgan, who is chief illustrator of the N.
Y. Police Gazette, gets £lOO per week.
The Earl and Countess of Ellesmere left Mel-
bourne for England, by the Orient, on the 12th.
Archbishop Vaughan is still actively engaged on
his new work, a portion of which is, we hear, already in
the press.
A statue of Carlyle is being executed by the
celebrated sculptor, Bocem, to the order of Lord
Rosebery.
Thomas Bailey Aldrich (author of “ The Ballad
of Baby Bell”) is the new editor of the Atlantic
Monthly.
Carlyle bequeathed his Dumfriesshire estate to
the Edinburgh University, for founding bursaries in
the Faculty of Arts.
Dr. Belgrave has been asked by a deputation of
medical gentlemen to take the editorship of the pro-
posed new medical journal.
Mr. Ashmead-Bartlett, who married the Baroness
Burdett-Coutts, is threatened with proceedings for
breach of promise of marriage.
“ Miss Braddon, it is said, is receiving a larger
income for her books than any other English novelist.”
We, of course except “ The Vagabond."
American papers state that Paul Boyton, the
“man-fish,” took part in the recent South American
war, and surrendered to the Chilians oh Jan. 20.
The appointment of the Marquis de Ray as
Consul for Bolivia, at Brest, France, was cancelled by
the President of the French Republic on the 24th Jan..
1881,
Baron von Mueller is again making an effort to
form an expedition to search for relics of Leichhardt.
Mr. Ernest Giles, it is said, offers to undertake the
leadership.
Mr. Cooke, late Commissioner of Crown Lands,
in the Bombala District, who has been appointed P.M.
for Balranald, received a very flattering address prior to
his departure from the former locality.
The accomplished Mr. W. C. Hodgkinson, well
known as a journalist and explorer, has been promoted
from the wardenship of the Etheridge to the position
of chief warden of the Palmer River Goldfield.
The Rev. J. E. Tenison-Woods, the well-known
geologist, now on a visit to Rockhampton, was, at last
accounts, being urged to deliver a brief coarse of
lectures on the mineral resources of that district.
The personal property of “George Eliot”
amounted to £4o,ooo—left for the most part to members
of the Lewes family. Her husband, Mr. Cross, is hard
at work preparing a biography of this famous authoress.
Lord Rosebery is about to build one of the
most magnificent houses in London on the site which
he has bought near Albert Gate. The mansion will
command a fine view of Botten Row and the Ladies’
Mile.
John Kelly, of Budeen, notifies by advertise-
ment in the Sydney Town and Country Journal that
if his wife, Mary Kelly, marries again, she does so at
her own risk, and significantly adds—" God help ter
husband!”
A French paper is responsible for the statement
that the King of Bavaria has turned night into day—
the Court remaining up all night, and going to bed in
the forenoon. Kings of Bavaria have done things
queerer than this ere now.
Mr. Fox, late of the Melbourne Argus, has
arrived in Sydney to manage the E.C. clerical organ, the
Express. The proprietary, it is understood, have
determined to postpone the inaugural publication of
their evening paper until July.
When Dean Stanley proposed that the remains
of Thomas Carlyle should be honoured by interment in
Westminster Abbey, the relatives of the deceased philo-
sopher intimated that he had expressed a decided wish
to be laid beside his wife in the old Cathedral of Had-
dington.
Dr. M’Gibbon, we hear, has sold out of the
Protestant Standard. The rev. doctor says, in para-
phrase of the sentiment expressed by some other fellow,
that Sydney is a spendid place for a religious paper,
provided Satan has eleven pages of it, and the other
page is mixed.
General Sir George Colley, whose force met
almost complete extermination at the hands of the
Boers last February, appears to have been deliberately
picked off, as were a number of other officers, by the
enemy’s marksmen. Sir George was shot through the
head while leading his men.
The Duke of Connaught is named as the
successor of the old Duke of Cambridge at the head of
the British army. The old gentleman is kind-hearted,
but very choleric, and a terrible swearer. He has a
particular distaste for newspapers, and is accustomed
t® refer to them in words of lurid import.
That rising artiste. Miss E. Bussell, daughter of
Alderman Bussell, of West Maitland, has just finished
three oil paintings of religious subjects for Merriwa
church. The pictures are spoken of in the most
flattering terms. We are glad to notice that more than
one talented lady is trying to emulate Adelaide Ironside.
The scene of George Eliot’s earlier stories are
mostly laid in Warwickshire and Derbyshire. But the
“ Mill on the Floss ” is an exception. The town called
St. Oggs in this novel is Gainsborough, an antiquated
country town in Lincolnshire. The Floss is the River
Trent, where it broadens out towards the Humber and
the sea.
Edward Jenkins, the author of “ Ginx’s Baby,’
contradicts, in the home Press, the rumour that he has
an intention of going to Canada to edit a newspaper
there. He says such a thing was never suggested or
thought of, and that he would prefer Botany Bay to
editing a Canadian or any newspaper. Poor misguided
Ginx, we’re sorry for you.
Lord Northbrook, First Lord of the Admiralty,
strongly favours the temperance movement in the navy.
He expressed great satisfaction resently on learning
that there were 10,000 abstainers on Her Majesty’s
ships, and announced that it was the intention of
the authorities to further discourage the consumption
m the navy of intoxicating spirits.
The committee formed for the purpose of
Meeting a statue in memory of the late Sir Redmond
®arry, of Melbourne, have now at their disposal about
£1259. A good deal more is required, and the Victorian
Government will be asked to contribute. By the way,
me Hon. W. J. Clarke has presented to Trinity Col-
lege, Melbourne, a marble bust of Sir Redmond, exe-
cuted by Charles Summers
The February number of Blackwood contains
an account of the circumstances under which George
Lhot first became connected with that magazine, and
publishes extracts from the correspondence which
passed between the editor, the late Mr. John Blackwood,
and her while the “ Scenes of Clerical Life” were
appearing in “Maga,” and during the time she was
engaged on her earlierlnovels.
Mr. Thomas M’Dougall, P.M., of Grafton, and
Thomas Bawden, ex-M.L.A. for the Clarence, have
SO.ne. to law—the proceedings taking the shape of a
criminal libel suit. Doubtless the affair is much like
Gampbelltown dispute: one in which gentlemen of
nnbleinished reputation come to cross purposes over
trivial matters that should in the first place have been
referred to the arbitration of disinterested friends.
j.-kord Beaconsfleld, hearing that the sale of
Lndymion ” was less than was expected, offered the
oj iffnians to cancel the agreement under which they
j n *lO.OOO for the novel, and accept half the profits
instead. The Longmans declined the offer with thanks,
a-ii they expected to recoup themselves by the
the cheap edition forthcoming. Their loss thus
athalfOO. circulating libraries are selling copies
The directors of the unfortunate City of Glas-
gow Bank seem to be flourishing. From a correspond-
ent in Scotland we learn that the manager is living in
the Modern Athens “as bright as ever.” Potter is
also located there in a fine mansion. Inglis, another
director, is factor for a Scottish nobleman in London.
Another resides in a magnificent house near Stirling,
and gives state banquets; while another has built a
beautiful palace on the shores of Lake Geneva,
It is now clear that Froude’s “ Reminiscenes of
Carlyle” contains many more autobiographical
details than were expected. There are several charac-
teristic allusions to early contemporaries. Brief
sketches of many persons are given, including Leigh
Hunt, Parr, De Quincy, Chalmers, Disraeli, Murray,
Hazlitt, and a dozen of what Carlyle calls “thin
celebrities." He nicknames Beaconsfleld “ Demosthenes
Disraeli." Over 4000 copies of the book were taken in
advance. Froude, before publishing it, sailed for
Madeira in ill health.
Mr. Richard Anthony Proctor, the eminent
astronomer, who while here made an impression on
more than one creature, is about to give the world a
flat contradiction of the adage (Baconian, we believe),
“ Love enters not the brain where learning dwells.” At
Auckland Mr. Proctor met Mrs. Crowley, a charming
widow who, like himself, was a passenger by the Ameri-
can mail. Before the steamer reached Honolulu the
pair had become engaged, and had arranged to get
married at San Francisco. As Mr. Proctor already has
six children, and his fair charmer two, it cannot be
denied that the happy couple begin life auspiciously.'
“ Ouida’s ” name is Louisa de la Rame. She
has never married. She is not handsome, is past
middle life, dresses plainly, and is said to be growing
stout. Her mother died, or separated from her father,
when she was quite an infant. Mr. de la Eamti was a
man of brilliant attainments, which, as the story goes,
he did not use to the best purpose. But he was devoted
to his daughter, and she accompanied him in all his
many wanderings. He was a naturalised Englishman,
but of French origin, and French has always been the
vernacular of “ Ouida.” She has been gossiped about,
but the best accounts insist that nothing can truthfully
be said to her discredit.
Mr. Swinburne, in the Fortnightly Review,
describes Emile Zola, author of “ L’Assommoir," as
“ the owl-eyed head of the sect of bestialists in whose
noses stinks are as sweet odors, and whose ears find
harmony in echoes too horrible for hell." Those who
have witnessed the death-scene of the heroine in the
dramatized version of “ Nina ” will not be disposed to
quarrel with the vigor of Mr. Swinburne’s invective. It
is described by one who witnessed it as a ghastly and
revolting exhibition: “ Nina comes forth en chemise
from her bed, and reveals the ravages of the disease
on her face, smirched over with pustules. Her death
agonies were far more horrible than those of Mile.
Croizette in the ‘ Sphinx,’ or of Adrienne Lecouvrenr."
The lady novelist who, in defiance of social and
literary custom, signs her name Mrs. Henry Wood,
instead of using her own feminine appellatives, very
early evinced a disposition to write, in which she was
actively encouraged by her parents. Before she was
out of her teens she was married to Henry Wood, a
shipping merchant, and began soon after marriage
writing for print, on account, it is said, of his tem-
porary financial embarrassment. Her first contribu-
tions were in the form of sketches and short stories.
Her earliest complete work was “ Duneberry House,"
a prize temperance story, for which she received £lOO.
This was published (1860) when she was about forty
years old, and it was followed within a twelvemonth by
“ East Lynne," which had a wide sale, and by which
she is best known. She has published to date some
twenty-five novels. She has been for some years editor
of the Argosy, and has made, it is reputed, from
£15,000 to £20,000 out of her many and usually highly-
seasoned stories. They please the average reader, but
they do not indicate any noticeable intellectual growth.
Her friends say that she is not at all inky in her out-
giving, and not a whit romantic by disposition.
The publication in these columns last week of a
sketch of the life of the Hon. John Campbell has since
recalled one or two interesting facts. The house in
which Mr. Campbell was born, seventy-nine years ago,
is still standing. It was erected in 1798, and is to-day
much more staunch than many of the new and sub-
stantial modem edifices to be found in Sydney. The
building is now used as an office of the A. S. N. Com-
pany, who some time back purchased Campbell’s
Wharf. Prior to the purchase, and during Mr. Camp-
bell’s occupancy, the house still held the same furni-
ture as it did in the first year of the present century.
The appointments were in the old English style, every-
thing being massive and elegant, and of solid make.
The furniture, for the greater part, was the first that
was made by free labour on these shores, and it may
be interesting to learn that it was made by the
progenitors of some of the present leading
pastoral families of the Western districts, mem-
bers of which have tried over and over again to
obtain from the Campbells some of this furniture—to
preserve as heirlooms. A chat with Mr. Campbell takes
one back to the most interesting period of our
history. Mr. Campbell, when voyagihg home with his
father (who was required as a witness in the Governor
Bhgh affair), beheld the wrecked and shattered rem-
nant of the French fleet that met defeat in the memor-
able battle of Trafalgar. The colonists’ vessel was only
saved through the eagamess the Frenchmen exhibited
to escape. Later on, Mr. Campbell witnessed Nelson’s
funeral, when the nation did honour to its greatest
hero.
The Intercolonial Eight-oar Race.
The Intercolonial Eight-oar Bace for 1881 took place
on Saturday last, when a Victorian amateur crew
scored a win on the Parramatta for the first time, and
gave to their colony the credit of three wins out of four
races. The afternoon was a glorious one, and the water
almost perfectly calm. The contest was witnessed by a
number of spectators far in excess of that by which the
race of two years ago was viewed. Three heavily-laden
steamers followed the race from start to finish, and all
the points of vantage on the banks were fully occupied.
As usual, the s.s. Prince of Wales defied the Marine Board
regulation forbidding any steamer other than those
carrying the umpire and press respectively from follow-
ing the competitors. The authorities have at present
no power to board and shut off steam in a “ puffer " thus
offending, so it usually suits the owner of a harbour
steamer to carry passengers to a boat-race at rates
below those of the Association boats—the fine exigible
being an almost nominal one. It is true that the mas-
ter’s certificate can be suspended, as in the case of
Capt. Waterhouse, the former commander of the Prince
of Wales; but, then, it is always easy to get a retired
skipper to take command for the day. On Saturday,
the Prince of Wales not only followed the race in
defiance of law, but she, taking advantage of her great
steaming powers, got right in front of the s.s. Commo-
dore, and completely shut off the two crews from the
view of the press and the umpire (Hon. Geo. Thornton),
who, at the dinner given in the evening, alluded in
forcible terms to the discreditable occurrence. While
putting forward these facts, we must say that there is
no earthly reason why those who legally control the
Parramatta river should not make regulations similar
to those which have been found to work so well on the
Thames. In all big races contested on the latter river,
the Conservancy boat, carrying the press and umpire,
goes in advance, and all other steamers are bound under
heavy penalties to keep behind her throughout the race.
The present regulations of the N.S.W. Marine Board
are such as to give a practical monopoly to the Bowing
Association, who alone have the power to run boats,
and, who, possessing a monopoly, make what they con-
sider the best use of it by charging such exorbitant
rates as 7s. 6d. for a gentleman’s and ss. for a lady’s
ticket. Such a tariff may perhaps be all very well
for the “ hupper suckles,” but the workman, or the
clerk who lives within his means, cannot afford
live half-crowns for an afternoon’s outing—and we
take it that the clerk or the workman has just
as good a right to see the intercolonial boat-race,
and to follow it in a steamer, too, as the gilded
“ yonng blood.” Of course it is argued that the Asso-
ciation, which is supposed to provide the fun, has no
other means of raising revenue, and that if the Associa-
te not kept up, boat-racing will go down. However,
the popular view of the question is that the Association
has no more right to keep off the Parramatta such of
the general public as cannot or do not care to spend
12s. 6d., than any other body of private speculators
would have to hold foot-races in the Botanic Gardens
and exclude those who refused to pay an admission fee—
that, though it’s very nice to have amateur boat-racing
select, and to feel that you’re surrounded, not by six-
penny Joneses, but by twelve-and-sixpenny De Veres,
the real aim ought to be to make boat-racing popular.
There’s plenty of room on the Parramatta for six or
even sixteen steamers, and that a few old Marine Board
fossils, backfed up by a “ steamship ” coterie and a
number of young gentlemen who want to raise money
by a thoroughly illegitimate and indefensible means,
should be permitted to rule the roast and incon-
venience Brown, Jones, and Robinson and the
respective wives of those individuals, is one of
those anomalies peculiar to Sydney which no fellow
can understand, and which would be tolerated in
no other Australian city. The Association and
the Marine Board will not allow the Press to ran even
a steam launch, urging as a reason that sufficient
accommodation is provided for the newspaper men on
board the umpire’s craft. Saturday afforded an
excellent illustration of the manner in which the Press
(and through them, of course, the public) is made sub-
servient to the old fogies who “regulate” things. A
space had been railed off on the bows of the Commodore
for the reporters, who, on entering the compartment,
found the best places already occupied by one of the
queerest assemblages of pressmen it has ever been our
lot to meet. Chief among these illustrious literati was
a fat alderman, with a gigantic umbrella, who, we are
bound to say, never in all his life contributed anything
to the Press but a short advertisement or a letter dis-
claiming all responsibility for a Corporation mix-np;—
we’re not quite sure that he ever even did that. When
questioned on the subject, he said he was “Special"
for the Shoalhaven Thunderer— whereupon everyone
was instantly able to account for the choice essays which
occasionally appear in that brilliant journal. Then Mr.
Fletcher, M.L.A., was presented to our entranced vision
in his new character of pressman. It is understood
that he represented the Newcastle Cave op Addllam,
in which he is reputed to have an interest. We have
not yet had time to read the account sent to the
Newcastle paper by its “ special commissioner," but we
hope that that gentleman, even though he enjoys the
privilege of being an M.P., couches his reports in Eng.
lish a little better than that of one of his staff, who, in
describing the race between Neild and Turner at
Newcastle the other day, informed his long-suffering
readers that "Captain Hacking officiated as referee,
and gave mutual satisfaction to both sides." Well,
there were in the Press box legislators, publicans,
newspaper canvassers, parsons, tailors, billstickers,
“professional pigs," “stone-hands,” and doctors—
in fact, everything but reporters. We even recog-
nised among the throng the sleek visage of our tailor’s
clerk, who had a press ticket and was, we suppose,
therefore a pressman. Perhaps he’d got his pasteboard
from some literary man who dresses well and doesn’t
pay cash down, or perhaps he was held to be a pressman
because he owed several quarters’ subscription to the
Holy Howl. Of course we owe our subscription to
nothing.- therefore, to follow up the metaphor, we are
not journalists. However, we are, to use an Austra-
lian idiom—and we love all or nearly all Australian
idioms —“game” to remark that amongst the "press”
assemblage we have so good-naturedly alluded to, there
were, bar the tailor’s clerk, few knights of the Magnum
Bonum, who, according to the foregoing aphorism,
could conscientiously claim to be (journalistically, any
way), even tyros at ink-slinging. There was, in short,
not much in the press-box to remind one of journalism
save the case of beer which the Association had kindly,
and at the same time astutely, provided for “ inspira-
tional” purposes.
There is little more to be said by way of preface than
that His Excellency the Governor and Lady Loftus, by
special permission, we suppose, of the Marine Board,
followed the race in the pretty steam launch Nea
(named, by the way, after a daughter of Sir Hercules);
that Lady Augustus Loftus “ wore” a most wonderful-
looking “ Bordeaux”-colored sunshade ; that the Nea,
while “ hove to,” waiting for the start, her bright brass
awning-rods casting a shimmer on the dancing water,
brought to our minds thoughts of ancient Venice and the
Doges—but this only for an instant, as our eye next
moment fell on the literary alderman, the sight of whom
dispelled the illusion. That the steamer Telephone,
carrying a great deal of the wealth and fashion, a little
of the beauty, and some of the intellect—G. H. Eeid
was there—of the city, waited abreast of the press-boat
during the long period it took to effect a start. That
as the two crews rowed up to their stations past the
Governor’s launch, and saluted his Excellency, the
Sydney crew showed better form than they did in any
part of the race; that they looked fresh, trim, wiry,
and just the men fora long and lively pull; that the
Victorians rowed a stroke differing in no respect from
that which everybody has seen them use in practice.
That the start, when it did come (which, owing to a
little haggling by the Victorian captain about the dis-
advantageous position of the waterman’s boat to which
his craft was attached, was a long time) wasn’t visible
to any of the pressmen—that even Jim Hobson, of the
Herald, who, holding aloft a borrowed chronometer,
attached to a chain that a friend had kindly lent him,
risked his life by balancing himself on one toe on the
bulwarks, failed to see the start.
Suddenly there was a roar from the stem of the
Commodore —“ They’re off.” The Sydney crew, being
closest in, were seen first, holding a slight lead;
but as the two boats breasted the steamer, Upward
quickened his stroke and lifted the stern of his boat
right on to the nose of the Sydney craft in less than a
hundred yards. Then there was a cry of “ It’s all over,”
but as the crews fairly settled down for their row of
three miles and a fifth—half a length of water now
appearing between them—some who had seen the last
eight-oar contest on the Parramatta remembered the
long stem chase of the Sydney men and their gallant
win at the finish. But it soon became evident that
New South Wales, while she would on this occasion
have had little show in a short spurt, had no chance
against the Southerners over the whole course. The
Melbourne men rowed with a smart dash, clean feather,
quick recovery, a judicious use of the extensor muscles
—their bodies square, and oscillating with machine-like
regularity. In fact, when the boats got a few lengths
clear of the steamers, and were viewed “nose on,” it
was seen that Mr. Upward and his men were pulling
the prettiest, cleanest, and coolest stroke yet seen, in
or out of practice, in these waters. Even “ bow," who
in practice a few days previously had been rowing in
very erratic style, now swung with the others. On the
other hand, though Mr. Lord pulled a dashing stroke
—perhaps slightly longer and slower than that of his
antagonist—it was by no means thoroughly copied
by those who sat behind him. Of the New South
Wales men, more than one was swinging slightly out
of the boat, and after the crews, with Victoria a clear
and increasing advantage of half a length, had passed
Uther’s Point, it was noticeable that the hands of at
least one good-looking " cornstalk ” were no longer
brought up to his chest smartly at the finish, and that
his legs and back after he had dragged his scull through
the water were by no means as straight as they should
have been. Still Victoria went ahead, and still our
men went back both in relative position and in style.
They in fact began—in the words of their indefatigable
coach, Mr. P. J. Clark, who sadly gazed on them with
his binoculars from the deck of the Commodore—to
“ row all roads. Ten to one was offered on the visitors,
without response. At the mile point, Victoria, row-
ing 43, held a length’s lead, and at the Beacon,
reached in 5 minutes 4 seconds from the start,
—this time, for a little over a mile, with a flood-tide,
being, by the way, tolerably fast—they had tacked on a
couple more lengths to their advantage. Putney was
passed in 6m. 155., Sydney four lengths behind, and
Victoria rowing a neat 40 to the minute. At Breakfast
Point the Victorians were six lengths ahead, and eased
up a little; the Sydney crew holding out unmistakeable
signals of distress. Gladesville wharf was passed in
13m. 555., One-man wharf in 16m. 125.; and the Vic-
torians, rowing well within themselves, headed the
procession in 18m. 12s. The New South Wales crew
got in half a minute later. Mr. Lord exerted himself
to the utmost throughout, and seemed completely
“ done ’’ at the finish. The Sydney crew were subse-
quently swamped by a steamer, and had to swim for it;
but they were picked up after their refresher. Both
the Victorian and N.S.W. boats were built by Dick
Fuller, of Melbourne.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Rev. Arthur Robins has been appointed
chaplain to the Prince of Wales.
One-third of the prelates who attended the
Council at Borne in 1869 are dead.
“ The Freethought Missionary Field” was the
subject of Mr. Charles Bright’s address at the Eoyal
last Sunday.
The Roman Catholic Bishop, Dr. Lanigan, met
with a flattering reception on Ms return to Goulbum
after his visit to Europe.
The Rev. Dr. Steel delivered a very interesting
lecture at Paddington on the Bth, his subject being
“ Egypt and its Monuments.”
At the last monthly meeting held at St. Mary’s
B. C. Cathedral, in aid of the building fund, the large
sum of £2682 7s. 4d. was handed in.
The Rev. Henry Ward Beecher has cancelled
all his lecturing engagements at the demand of his con-
gregation, who threatened to oust him.
Ten years ago, during an educational crisis, the
Duke of Norfolk and the Marquis of Bute contributed
to the B. C. educational fund the sum of £BO,OOO.
Dr. Redwood, the R. C. Bishop of Wellington,
leaves Borne shortly for his diocese. He also brings
out an army of priests for Wellington and Canterbury.
Mr. Arthur Bathurst, a New Zealand ’vert to
Borne, has sent Archbishop Vaughan a contribution of
£250 towards the building fund of St. Mary’s Cathedral.
By order of the Right Rev. Dr. Jacopi, a solemn
Te Ileum was sung at the E. C. Cathedral, Agra, as
thanksgiving for the recovery of His Excellency the
Viceroy.
The Rev. Dr. Steel says that the Y.M.C.
Associations’ work in England and America is great,
contributing largely to the renewed religious vitality
noticeable in those two countries.
In the course of a discussion in the Melbourne
Presbyterian Assembly, Mr. Stewart said that the Eev.
C. Strong had been pestered by offensive anonymous
letters, received from various members. It transpired,
however, that this referred, not to members of the
Presbytery, but to members of the Scots' Church.
The spirited offer of .£lOOO made by the Rev.
Mr. Coutts, of Newcastle, on condition that £2OOO be
raised by the public for the same object, has been
heartily taken up—the leading men of the district,
including the Mayor of Newcastle, having formed
themselves into a committee pledged to secure the
amount required.
It is commonly reported that the large-hearted
manly Bishop of Melbourne has invited the celebrated
mission preachers, the Eev. George Balby and the Eev.
E. Knox Little, to pay a visit to our southern hemi-
sphere. The rumor, if true, is but another evidence of
that breadth of character which has made Bishop
Moorhouse such a power of good for Victoria.
The congregation of St. Andrew’s Church,
Adelaide, offer no objections to the acceptance by the
Presbytery of the resignation of the Eev. James Hen-
derson. The Presbytery have resolved that the report
of the committee appointed to investigate the rumours
affecting the moral character of Mr. Henderson are
such as to warrant them in proceeding by libel.
The London Tablet says ; — “ There are already
abundant indications that the direction which the (E.C.)
Church is taking is towards a higher education, longer
years of preparation for her priesthood, a deeper and
more general study of the problems of the day, and a
determination to address herself, not only to the mass
of the people, but also to the intellect of the country.”
A certain N.S.W. minister, some time ago, took
(French! leave and went to Melbourne—unkind people
said, to look for a job with a better “ screw." He had
been there twice before in one year, leaving his people
to be provided for by boys and emergency men. On his
return, he told his “ kyind Christian friends" of the
sins and follies of the Melbourneites ; but now he has
received a “call,” and gone to the southern metropolis,
his flock wonder how long he “prayed” for it, and
whether he goes down south because there’s more sin
there or more money.
The Archbishop of Dublin, in his Lenten
pastoral, says:—“The unsound and untheological
opinions on mutual obligations which bind society are
being industriously propagated by men who are un-
trustworthy guides of the Catholic nation. Even
though rents are extortionate, the principles now laid
down, that one of the two contracting parties can of
his own private authority rescind his engagement,
assail the very foundation of society.” The pastoral
severely condemns the Ladies’ Land League. It is
rumoured that the Ladies’ Land League intend publish-
ing a manifesto replying to the pastoral.
“ There is,” writes “ Shanghai,” a considerable
flutter in the camp of the theologically-inclined of
Victoria owing to the slight alterations which have
been made in the text of the holy book by the very
reverend and learned gentlemen appointed to correct
the inspired writings. And this consideration is not to
be wondered at when one learns (as all sensible people
have learned long ago) that for Soul, in the passage, “If
a man gain the whole world and lose his soul what
profiteth it him ?” the word “ Life” should be used;
that for Hell we must in future read Hades—a place
of “ shadowy shores,” according to some raving bard,
and for the Evil One—simply evil. This latter would
upset one of the finest poetical addresses written by
Bobbie Bums —the address To the Deil. But it is even
better to lose Burns’ writings than keep on believing in
the existence of the horrid and tailed monster of the
dark ages. At any rate I have felt considerably more
comfortable since parting company with the old gentle-
mnn ”
Writes a rather gashing correspondent:—“ The
result so far of the case of the Eev. Mr. Strong, in Mel-
bourne, offers a telling commentary on the religious
sentiment of colonial society. That gentleman’s some-
what atitudinarian views on the subject of “ Atonement,”
as compared with the grim and forbidding dogmata of his
spiritual progenitor Calvin on the same text, meet
with considerably more favour from the idiosyncrasies
of antipodean church-goers than they might beneath
less genial skies. The discussion of questions affect-
ing ‘ fixed fate, free will, and foreknowledge absolute ’
has done little, so far, to ruffle the surface of polemics
amongst us, but now that a distinctive question like
this is once started the pervading sentiment of society
is not slow to declare itself on the side to which it
perhaps insensibly inclines. Transcending the letter of
his text, this progressive parson soars into the poetic
spirit of his theme, ending his subject with that
attractive beauty which forms the staple of Arnold’s
oft-quoted ‘ sweetness and light.’ This is as it should
be with us. The religious system of the future Aus-
tralia, to be consistent, must be like that of those
smiling climes of azure skies and crimsoned sunsets to
which it has affinity; where the purple of the grape
and the gold of the ripened grain are reproduced in the
figurative ritual of their liturgy,—redolent of richness
of imagery, and impregned through every illuminated
line of text with the living soul of exalted worship.
Silvery organ-symphonies and clouds of roseate incense
slowly wreathing beneath solemn painted windows,
while surpliced choristers catch the streaming sunlight
in the voluminous folds of their snowy robes, fading
through the haze into shadowy indistinctness; and
fretted work on pillar and arch, with ‘ forms of saints
and holy men who died ’: —these are the materiel of an
apparent worship in older countries, where their
hallowed anthems, weirdly sweet, and volleying * Amen ’
fugures are reproduced in every sighing breeze that
wanders at will among Lugano’s vines or Ravenna’s
groves of pine; where the ascending vapours, coloured
with the golden glory of the sunset, rise against the
evening sky as the incense-wreath against the painted
window; and where, to the imagination kindled by the
Southern fervour, the vanished exemplars of a per-
fected ideal and the cherubic choirs of the dreaming
devotee are recalled by the pictured forms and the
white-robed children of the choir. And the genius of
the infant Australias is akin unto this. With less of
the dry letter and rather more of the pervading spirit,
as Mr. Strong insisted in that forcible extract of his
which has been copied into mostof the leading journals
the apparent religious system of the future will be for
us, as i|t should be, a thing of music and brightness, of
transcendent gracefulness, and of refined and spiritual-
ised beauty.”


r|l H E A T E E
lessee
Acting Manager j
EIGHTH WEEK E1C
of
WILLIAMSON’S OPERA
THE “ PIRATES OF PENZA]
Enthusiastic Recept
Miss MAGGIE MC
As Ruth, the Piratical Mail
And the popular English P
Miss ELSA MA
THIS EVENIN
and until further m
THE PIRATES OF PEN
THE SLAVE OF L
Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls, 3s; Fai
Is. Box office at Elvy and Co.’s, <
plan of Dress Circle can be seen an
ARTHUR Gj
GOOD FRIDAY—GRAND SAC
QUEEN’S TB
Lessee
THIS (Thursday) EVENII
LAST NIGHT i
UNCLE TOM’S CA
Gigantic array of artsits engaged
of
Mrs. HARRIET BEECHE
MORAL AND RELIGIOI
UNCLE TOM’S CA
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT, GRA1
CERT by the whole Company <
Singers, and large Orchestra.
SATURDAY. APRI
FORMOSA.
WM. HOSKINS as MAJC
MARION WILLIS as F
supported by the full strength of tl
QUEEN’S DRAMATIC (
Dress circle, 3s.; stalls, 2s.; pit,
A I E T T T 1
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless
General Manager
MONTAGUE-TURNER ENGLI
OPERA COMPA1
THIS (Saturday) EVENINi
BALFE’S BOHEMIA1
MISS ANNIS MONT
ME. CHARLES TU
The REPERTOIRE will be lar
include the production of
POUR NEW OPE1
Box plan at Messrs. Nicholson & (
Prices, 5s. 3s, 2s, Is.
JAMES D
TDNEY OPEBA
Business Manager ...
Leader Orchestra ...
THIS (Saturday) EY]
GRAND OPENING
of
R. B. LEWIS’S MAST AD 01
MINSTRELS.
R. B. LEWIS’S MASTODO]
MINSTRELS.
An Extraordinary Enterprise Ii
Features found ana prodn
GRAND COTERIE OF REF
The potent praise paid them predii
positive precursors of a progressivi
presuming, plagiarists, and the pn
posterity.
Sixty Famous Artists in the Firf
of the Ethiopian Coi
Eight End Men! Eight End Men!
Songs I the Best of Wit ar
THE ACROBATIC CL(
12 Stars of Stars
12 Great Song and Dance
giving every variety of this favou
the neat to the grote
A Champion of the Grand Clog Fea1
on the minstrel sts
mrnMirtjSTinon nun
THE DEAD HAND.
A STOEY IN ONE CHAPTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the town of Souyiers in France there resided
an English doctor named Cranstone. Late one
night an old woman—a countrywoman of his —
came to him with a short note requesting his im-
mediate attendance.
“How is Monsieur Varillon ?” he asked after
glancing at the few words the note consisted of.
“Dead,” replied the dame; “died this morn-
ing.”
And Madame ?”
“ Miss Lucy is with me, and she wants yon to
go with her to-night to see her husband.”
“To see her husband! You say that he is
dead.”
“ He’s as bad dead, as he was living; but she’ll
tell you all about it.”
Without more questions the doctor accompanied
the old woman ; and they presently reached a little
cottage, the interior of which presented a strange
jumble of French and English furniture.
Sitting by| the fire burning in an open fire-place
was a fair-faced girl, unmistakably English, whom
the doctor addressed as Madame Varillon.
It was some time before she mooted her real
object for sending for him ; then she watched his
face narrowly with her big hazel eyes, as if dread-
ing ridicule.
“He made me promise,” she said, speaking of
her dead husband, “ that for the two nights before
he would be buried I should come and pray beside
his coffin, and watch there from 2 o'clock until
daylight.”
“What a childish whim,” replied the doctor.
“You are certainly not strong enough to redeem
your promise, so you can make up your mind for a
good night’s rest to-night.”
“ But I must go.”
“ Nonsense, it might be the death of you.
Why did you send for me if you won’t take my
advice?”
“ It was not for your advice I asked yon to
come,” she said apologetically, “ but to ask a
greater favour. I must go, but I confess I feel
timid. Will you go with me ?”
“ Of course.”
“There’s nobody in the house but old Jeanne,
and she sleeps below; the seenr de charite leaves
at nightfall.”
“ I will go to Miss Lucy,” said the old woman.
“ No, nurse, I won’t let you ; you know I shall
be safe with Dr. Cranstone.”
“ Such a foolish whim,” grumbled the old dame.
“What could he mean by such a whim ?” asked
the doctor angrily.
“ I can scarcely tell you, what he said,” and her
voice dropped, and she gleamed fearfully around,
“ that somebody—somebody not living, you know,
would come to his body if I were not there.”
“ Gracious me ! what nonsense,” cried the old
nurse” ; who’d like to go near his ugly body if
they could help it, I’d like to know.”
“ Go to bed at once, and dismiss these childish
notions,” said the doctor.
“ I must go, I feel I must.”
“ A wilfu’ woman maun gang her ain gait,”
muttered the doctor; “ but if we must go I see no
reason for leaving this snug room until neces-
sary. I for one object to doing more penance than
I can help.”
The doctor tried again to dissuade his young
friend from her purpose, but in vain; and after one
o’clock they were traversing the deserted streets.
After some walking they reached a gloomy square,
in a quarter that Cranstone was very little ac-
quainted with. On one side of the square rose
tiie dark towers of a church, the remaining three
sides consisting of large houses. High up in one
of these a dim light shone through a window, and
before it they stopped. After pulling at the bell
for some time, somebody in the porter’s lodge
seemingly awoke, for a small door cut in the large
one opened, and the doctor and his companion
entered. The hall was intensely dark, and the air
close and unwholesome as if the place were always
shut up. Madame Varillon took the doctor’s
hand, and led him on a few paces, then giving him
a whispered and very necessary caution to mind
the stairs, they commenced to ascend. Like the
hall, the staircase was unlighted, save by such
meagre starlights as struggled in through the un-
cleaned windows; and as the doctor followed his
silent guide, he could scarcely help feeling a slight
thrill of superstitious feeling creep over him.
They stopped on the third story, and entered the
room where burned the light they had seen from
the street. In one corner of the room stood a
heavy old-fashioned bedstead; on it was an open
coffin, and in the coffin the body of a man. A
flickering candle burnt on either aide of the
corpse, and on the breast lay a wreath of immor-
telles.
The girl looked on the dead with a half-terrified
gaze, and then, throwing back her cloak, knelt
down beside the bed, and, burying her face in her
hands, seemed to pray. Hardly knowing what to
do, Cranstone stood beside her, and gazed curiously
around at the place in which he now found himself
for the first time. It was a large room, and the
furniture in it was old and dilapidated. The un-
certain light of the two candles only illuminated
that portion of the room in the immediate neigh-
bourhood of the bed, and the far comers were
shrouded in grim obscurity.
Having finished his unsatisfactory survey, he
then examined the corpse. Its face was that of a
man above middle age, evidently of a stem, for-
bidding aspect during life, and now looking doubly
so as he lay still in death. The hair and beard
were dark, streaked with grey, and contrasted in
a ghastly manner with the white face.
As Cranstone gazed at it, he could scarcely
repress a shuddering sensation that the eyes were
looking angrily and fiercely at him from under
their closed lids. Impressed in spite of himself,
he looked down almost savagely, and strove to
discard the unholy sensations that were creeping
into his mind and causing him to stand there thus
weirdly fascinated, gazing into the face of a dead
man.
The spell was broken by the girl rising from her
knees. She gathered her cloak about her, as
though cold, and stooping over the corpse, put her
left hand in one of the lifeless ones, and resting
her right one on the edge of the coffin, bent down
as if about to impress a farewell kiss upon the cold
lips.
In the very act she started back with a quick
cry of pain and terror ; a cry that seemed to the
astonished doctor to be mockingly re-echoed
through out the building. ‘ ‘ My hand! my hand! ’ ’
she gasped, in horror-stricken accents.
Startled and astonished, Cranstone saw that the
dead hand had closed upon the living one the girl
had laid upon it. No other change or motion was
visible in the body; the set face showed no signs
of returning life; but the bony hand had grasped
the delicate one that had rested on it, and was
crushing it in a fell grasp that made the sufferer
wince with pain and terror.
Recovering to a certain extent his presence of
mind, Cranstone caught hold of the wrist of the
corpse with one hand, and with the other tried to
disengage Madame Varillon’s hand. But he failed
in releasing the hold of the fingers in the slightest.
Again he essayed, putting forth all his strength,
and using both hands in his endeavours to wrench
the hand open, but still in vain. Excited and
incensed by the sight of the girl’s suffering, Cran-
stone strained every muscle, throwing his whole
will and energy into the endeavour to free the
imprisoned hand. This time he seemed to have
made some impression on the iron clasp; but it
required the exertion of all his strength to retain
the slight advantage he had gained. Suddenly
the thought of Mesmerism as applied to cases of
trance occurred to him ; and, concentrating every
wish and thought of his mind on the completion of
his object, he continued the struggle mentally as
well as physically. He felt that a mind of equal
power and determination was opposed to his, and
the combative faculty on either side was so equally
balanced that one supreme effort must give the
victory.
The horrible notion that a dread being of another
world was in the once-living form and fighting him
for the possession of the tortured hand, made him
almost shudder at the contact of the cold dead
flesh ; and he at once felt the fingers closing with
renewed tenacity. Enraged at his own weakness,
he strove to banish from his mind every feeling of
terror at supernatural influence, and threw his
utmost vigour into his tired and strained muscles.
He felt, to his joy, that now he was succeeding,
and that the rigid hold was failing beneath his
desperate clasp. Animated at this, he essayed his
utmost to accomplish his object, when the clock
in the neighbouring church struck three. At the
first stroke, and with a suddenness that—coming
so unexpectedly—almost caused him to lose his
balance, the dead hand opened, and the girl, with
a low shuddering moan, dropped fainting on the
floor.
Cranstone raised her at once, and looked vainly
round the room for some water. Noticing a door
other than the one he had entered at, he went and
opened it, and looked in. It was evidently a
dressing room, and in it he saw the water he
sought. A low couch was also there, and thinking
that his patient when she recovered would be better
out of the presence of the dead body, he carried
her in and laid her upon it. After bathing her
temples with the cold water, he got one of the
candles, and examined her hand.
So severe had been the grasp to which it had
been subjected, that the blood was oozing from
beneath the finger-nails, two of the bones of the
palm of the hand were broken, and the rings she
wore were bent, and pressed into the flesh. After
dressing the injured member as well as he could,
he went to inspect the dead man.
Here he was entirely at fault; no trace of life
could he discover. Every test that his professional
knowledge suggested he put into practice—but
without result. The man was dead, and had
evidently been so for some time.
Just as he finished his inspection of the dead
body, the noise of the door through which he had
first entered being opened attracted his attention.
Holding the remaining candle high above his head,
he turned round. The door opened slowly, and a
woman came in and advanced to the side of the
bed. She was robed in a loose dressing gown,
her long hair hair hanging disordered down her
back. Two dark wistful eyes looked out of a pale
handsome face —eyes solemn, sad, and holding in
their depths some haunting secret horror that
gave them the fixed and glassy stare almost of
insanity.
She took no notice of Cranstone, who had put
down the light and stood silent and fascinated —
a creeping sensation of awful overwhelming fear
almost o’ermastering him as this ghostly figure
came to the side of the bed. She stood regarding
the dead body for some time, her eyes never losing
their set stare, her hands clasped loosely in front
of her. And Cranstone noticed with a fresh acces-
sion of horror, that a hideous gash was across one
of her wrists, nearly severing it to the bone. The
blood was slowly dripping on the floor, with a
perfectly audible splash. The doctor tried to move
or speak, but was powerless.
The silent figure then turned and went into the
room where lay the still insensible girl. She
paused, as before, beside the couch —still visible
to Cranstone through the open door. Presently
she lifted her wounded arm, and holding it over
the prostrate form on the couch, let the blood
trickle on to Madame Yarillon’s face.
Breaking the charm that held him by a mighty
effort, the doctor sprang forward, uttering an ex-
pression of disgust. He saw the woman look
menacingly at him as he advanced, ho saw the
girl’s face with the disfiguring blood-stain upon
it; and then to his astonishment the standing
figure disappeared, and when he reached the side
of the couch, the insensible face on the pillow was
as fair and pure as it had been before.
Doubting the evidence of his own faculties, and
utterly mystified, the doctor stood bewildered for
'a few minutes. Then he recalled his coolness,
took one of the candles, and minutely examined
both rooms, but failed in discovering any mode of
egress save the door he had entered at.
He stepped out on to the dark landing, leaving
the light behind, and closing the door, listened
patiently and motionless for some time, but could
not detect the slightest sound in any part of the
house. Dense darkness and absolute silence
seemed to reign everywhere.
He returned to the room, and tried to reason
himself into the belief that it was all an illusion.
It was the creation of his own imagination, the
premonitory symptom of illness, perhaps; such
things had been in his experience. But when he
looked at the bruised hand of his patient (who
was beginning to recover), he had to confess that
something had happened that was beyond him. It
was some time before Madame Yanllon was suf-
ficiently restored to return to the old nurse’s
cottage ; and as the slightest allusion to the scene
through which they had passed seemed to excite
her, the doctor forbore to press for any explana-
tion—even if she could have given any.
He deemed it his duty, however, to look up the
doctor who had attended Monsieur Varillon during
his illness, and see if any symptoms of trance had
shown themselves.
Doctor Buvert proved very communicative, and
did not seem to trouble himself about his confrere’s
motives for making the inquiries. Without much
diplomacy he was led to talk of Varillon’s past
life.
“He was married before,” he said, "to a
woman whose heart and soul were given to
another.” She was forced by her parents to marry
Yarillon, a cold, stem, abstracted man; you can
fancy how happy she was. Well, the result was
inevitable : the lovers met again, and he heard of
it. He gave no sign, but bided his love.
Her lover —his name was d’Heristal—ventured
into the house to bid her a last farewell. They
reckoned on his absence. They were deceived.
When about to separate, his step was heard
coming slowly and deliberately towards the room.
There was no escape ; from the ground to the
window was over forty f6et at least; there was
but one door —that by which the husband would
directly enter. Anxious to screen her from
disgrace, and not to save himself—for all stories
unite in giving him the character of a bold young
fellow—d’Heristal got out of the window, and
standing upon the precarious footing afforded by
the ornamental portion of the facade beneath the
old-fashioned window, stooped down low, sus-
taining himself with one hand on the window-sill.
Yarillon came into the room, and his quick eye
must at once have seen the hand on the window-
sill ; for, in her alarm, Madame Yarillon never
thought of diminishing the light in the room.
He said nothing of what he suspected, but,
after a few ordinary remarks to the trembling
woman, he caguht her by the hand, and tried to
lead her to the window.
She read at once that all was known, and con-
cluding that his intention was to hurl her lover
into the street before her eyes, struggled, and
prayed for mercy. Silently ignoring her entreaties,
he dragged her towards the window. A slight
scuffling noise was heard. D’Heristal, doubtless
in an attempt to get back into the room, hearing
what was going on, had dislodged witk his weight
the old bricks, and the unfortunate man was
suspended by one hand over the pavement—fifty
feet below,
Yarillon must have guessed what had happened,
for with renewed persistence he strove to drag
his wife to the window to witness the fall that
must take place ; and she, in despair, caught up a
knife from the supper-table, and in insane despera-
tion, drew it across her wrist, as if to try and cut
herself free from his relentless grasp.
“ And what was the end ?” asked Crantone, as
the other paused.
D'Heristal, when his strength gave way, fell
into the street, and was killed instantly. She
bled to death, and he had almost crushed her hand
in his attempt to drag her to the window. Some
of the metacarpal bones were broken, and the
rings on her fingers bent, and squeezed into the
flesh.
“ And at what time did this happen ?”
The servant, who was watching and listening at
the door, and through whom the facts transpired,
says that, at the instant she drew the knife across
her wrist, the clock of Saint Marguerite struck
three.
“ How long ago did this happen ?”
“ About five years ago. There was some talk
about it, as you may imagine; and Yarillon went
to live in England. Wien he returned, about
twelve months ago, he brought your pretty
countrywoman back with him—having wisely gone
to some outlandish place where he was unknown
for another wife. How she was induced to marry
him I cannot think. Doubtless her parents were
poor, and she had just left a boarding-school, and
did not know her own mind. However, she is a
rich widow now—a better fate than she would
have had as his wife. I wonder he allowed her to
bring her old nurse with her.”
Buyert, having once started, seemed inclined to
gossip on for ever; but Cranstone, having heard
all he wanted to know, managed to escape as soon
as he could consistent with politeness.
It was more than a month before Madame
Yarillon was strong enough to leave for England.
Cranstone escorted her to Paris, and turned from
watching the departing train with the settled con-
viction in his mind that he was over head and ears
in love ; that he was a poor man, and she was
rich, and that the best thing he could do
was to forget all about her as speedily as possible.
Easier said than done—three or four years hard
work in his profession did not do it. Then came
the war with Prussia, the siege of Paris; the
outbreak of the Commune, and the secoiyi siege of
the city by the Versailles troops.
Cranstone saw it all through; and in the hospitals
amongst the wounded, or doing his voluntary work
under the Prussian guns ; he could not banish the
remembrance of those soft brown eyes. An unwill-
ing member of the Commune, he still tended their
wounded, inwardly hoping for the incoming of the
Versailles troops. The day of vengeance came at
last, when the streets of’Paris became the battle
field.
Like a good many more, trusting to the cross of
Geneva for protection from both sides, Cranstone
sallied out to see how things were going. He had
gained a comparatively quiet street, when the
scarlet facings of a band of Communists appeared
at the head of it coming towards him. Knowing
that he would probably be shot out of mere
wantonness, he tried to gain entrance into the
nearest house until they passed. The assurance
that he was a doctor procured him admittance
from the porter. An old woman came to the door
of the porter’s room and looked in; he stood
talking to the man about the fighting going on.
She gave vent to an exclamation of joy on behold-
ing Cranstone, and caught him by the hand.
It was Madame Varillon’s old nurse. Not
waiting to answer the doctor’s rapid questions,
but dragging him frantically by the hand, she led
him upstairs. All the doctor could understand
amid her incoherence was a reproach directed
against himself for never having communicated
with her mistress. And then said the garrulous
old dame, assimilating herself with her mistress :
“We couldn’t live - out of Paris where you might
be, for we knew you left Souviers; and so we got
shut up in this wicked place where they are always
killing one another, and have been nearly starved.”
By this time they had reached a door of a room on
the first floor, and the doctor with a beating heart
followed the impetuous old woman, who burst in,
crying, “I have got him, I have found him! ”
And there was the love he had tried to forget.
They did not enter into explantions, they were un-
necessary, but perhaps the crash of firearms in the
street beneath the window frightened her so, that
she had to take shelter in the doctor’s arms. But that
was a noise that she should have been accustomed
to. Be that as it may she was there, and in the
street a body of Versailles troops had met the
Communists and were having it out with them.
As she lifted her face to meet her lover’s caress
she fell on to his breast with a wild gasp of pain.
A random ball had found its way through the ill-
barricaded window and taken her life. The agon-
ised doctor laid her on the couch. Tea, even as
he had seen her in the haunted room with the
ghastly blood stain on her white forehead, she lay
with the death wound in the same place. The
omen was accomplished: he had found his love
and lost her. And above the shots and shouts of
the combatants, rang out the hour of three. Por
a few moments he stood motionless, and speech-
less. Then, after one long kiss on the lifeless
lips, he turned and sought the street.
The Communists had retreated behind a barri
cade, hastily thrown up at the end of the street,
and their opponents were about to charge it. The
doctor stooped over a dead body and took the
chassepdt that was in its hand; then, as if struck
with another idea, threw it down again, and pre-
ferred the sword bayonet.
The Versailles soldiers carried the barricade
after a desperate hand to hand struggle, during
which they lost half their number. Of the Com-
munists not a man escaped—they fell where they
stood.
“My faitk!” said the corporal, now in com-
mand of the party by the loss of both officers,
“ But if all the citizens had fought like that on
lying there, the Comite Central would never have
existed.”
His men, looking for their own wounded, and
dispatching any insurgent who showed signs of
Me, hadjust thrown on one side the dead bodv of
the English doctor.
DRAMINGO.
[the end.]
April 16, 1881.


SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
s
INGEE
MANUFACTURING
Have opened a Depot in
COMPANY
8
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
BEST TEEMS TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES-
Write for address of nearest Agent.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOR FAMILIES.
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
8
INGER’S, BEST FOR DRESSMAKERS.
SINGER’S MEBIUM MACHINE is Unequalled.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES,
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly.
8
INGER’S THE BEST FOR TAILORS.
See the New No. 4 Machine.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST POE BOOTMAKERS.
See the New No. 4 Yibrating-Presser Machine.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
HAND OR TREADLE.
8
INGEE’S. The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE—Light to Work, Light to Carry.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
8
INGER’S THE BEST and MOST DURABLE.
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
ADDRESS: THE
gINGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Harbour-street, Sydney.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 George-street. Hay market, Sydney,
have been appointed agents for these celebrated
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.—TURNER
and CO. only recommend the Singer.
Remember, there is only one sin-
ger MACHINE. See the name and Trade
Mark on the arm.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—NO other NAME
applies to the Genuine Machines. TURNER &
CO., Agent, 363, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—Beware of German
Cast-iron imitations. Only Genuine Singer’s
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, by arrange-
ments with the Singer Company.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, 10 per
1 cent, discount for cash, or on Time Payments in
8
YDNEY. —From TURNER and CO., 353
GEORGE STREET, opposite POST OFFICE.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.—NOT ONE
but 160 FIRST PRIZES.
rj. J. WELLS, late STANFORD & CO.
The old authorised Agency for SINGER
MACHINES.
SINGER’S. The ONLY MACHINE of merit.
A real test of merit —2,soo,ooo now in use.
8
INGER’S MACHINE with new triple action,
with latest IMPROVEMENTS and accessories.
8
IE GER’S, from £5 cash, at G. J. WELLS,
1 HUNTER STREET.
Gr.
J. WELLS for LIBERAL TERMS
Payment. 2s 6d Weekly; 5s deposit.
of
w
HERE can you get the GENUINE SINGER
MACHINE? WELLS, 1 Hunter-street.
THE OLD RELIABLE SINGER is the
CHEAPEST, the SIMPLEST, and most DUR-
ABLE ever constructed.
T
O AVOID DECEPTION buy only at the Old
Authorised Agency, WELLS, 1 Hunter-street.
8
INGER’S NEW IMPROVED Triple Action
Balance Wheel. Latest Improved attachments.
8
INGER’S MACHINE. Immense discount to
cash purchasers. lOlper cent. 10s for cash.
SINGER’S MACHINES have stood the test
of all opponents and BASE IMITATIONS for the
past thirty years.
GJ. WELLS. The old original and only
• Genuine System of payments offered to meet
the terms and demands of the public at 2s 6d per week,
and 5s deposit.
WELLS for Price lists and all imformation
free. No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney. The OLD
SHOP for GENUINE ARTICLE.
~'tyV7"ELL'S Established Agency will be open
w T Every Saturday evening to give all instruc-
tions free, and receive weekly payments.
W Note the ADDRESS—
SINGER’S SEWING MACHJNE AGENCY,
G. J. WELLS, (Late Stanford and Co.).
No. 1 Hunter-street, Sydney.
T
HOS. J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BRASSPOUNDERS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WAEE,
IRON
TIN
BRASS
HOSE, See.
LEAD
COMPOSITION
j AND
COPPER PIPE.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHUEST-STEEET, SYDNEY.
161
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME WEIGEL’S
PAPER PATTERNS of DRESSES, MANTLES, etc.,
cut in different sizes for Ladies and Children, fur-
nished with illustrations and directions for making
hp. Sold at prices ranging from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, perat free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
ADDRESS:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 KING STREET,
SYDNEY,
R
OSS AND CLINCH,
(Late Collins and Roach),
-ffiRATED WATER
AND
CORDIAL MANUFACTURERS,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water-
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, &c.
CORDIALS OF ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied withjpromptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDRESS
ROSS AND CLINCH,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
HE CITY STOEES, TO LET.
Those MAGNIFICENT and SPACIOUS STOEES in
Pftt-street—between Bathurst and Liverpool- streets,
the centre of the city.— erected by Mr. F. Scholer,
and just being finished, are TO LET, separately or
together. The stores are spacious, well lighted, and
have splendid cellarage, with hoists. &c. —Early appli-
cation to MV, F. 9CH0LEE, 107, CaStlereagh-street,
Sydney.
rrro Smanufacturees oe theatrical
A MANAGERS. — TO LET, in Castlereagh-
street, near King-street.—The cbinmodjons premises
formerly known as the SCANDINAVIAN HALL, with
front shops and business places. The Hall is capable of
holding 1000 people, and in good hands (owing to its
capital situation) would pay well.—Apply F, SCHOLEE,
107, Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ETEES & M‘ K E O N ,
LICENSED SUE VETOES, ARCHITECTS,
AND
GENERAL DRAUGHTSMEN,
M'Cot’s Chambers, No. 16 Park Street,
Are prepared to execute all orders on most reasonable
terms. Also, CALIGRAPHIC and ILLUMINATED
WOEK of style unparalleled. Specimens on view.
IEOZEN MEAT! FROZEN MEAT!
FEOM OEANGE.
NOTICE TO BUTCHERS.
The Orange Slaughtering Company are prepared to
treat with Butchers for the sale of Chilled and Frozen
Beef, V eal. Pork, and Lamb, and will be ready to com-
mence delivery of same about the 20th April.
They propose to supply only those Butchers who will
enter in an agreement with the Company, to supply
their customers with frozen meat from Orange to the
exclusion of all other. The names of such butchers
will be published in the daily papers, as the only per-
sons authorised to sell the Company’s frozen meat.
Prices will be adjusted from day to day to meet the
Sydney cattle market. No meat will be sent unless
ordered by letter or telegraph.
For all further particulars apply to the manager of
the Company at Orange, or to Mr. P. BUEKE,
112 Pitt-street.
PRIZE “IVANHOE” WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
PARIS EXPOSITION, 1878.
TWO FIRST PRIZES
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL,
DINNER WINES,
LIGHT and DRY,
10/- PER DOZEN.
BURGUNDY')
RIESLING
|2l /■ per dozen.
%
I
" Drink no longer water,
but nse a little wine for
thy stomach’s sake and
thine often infirmities.”
—1 Tim. v. 23.
“ Wine maketh glad the
heart of man.”
Ps
CIV
AWARDED
TWENTY-NINE
MEDALS
AND
CERTIFICATES.
FRUITY WINES:
MADEIRA 'i
SHIRAZ )
14/- Pee Dozen.
PER GALLON:
5/6
IN JARS AND KEGS.
Ivanhoe Vineyard,)
6. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Hunter River, j SYDNEY DEPOT — I 3 BRIDGE STREET
i
Wine Growers
AND
Merchants.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BRASS FOUNDERS AND PLUMBERS,
COPPERSMITHS, GASPITTERS, AND GENERAL BLACKSMITHS,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
PLUMBING WORK IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. BRASS WORK OP EVERY DESCRIPTION.
IMPORTERS OF
DIVING GEAR, CHANDELIERS, &c.
MANUFACTURERS OP
BRASS WINDOW-SASH BARS,
PUMPS, SINGLE AND DOUBLE ACTION, & HYDRAULIC LEATHER HOSE PIPES, &c.
SHIPS WORK DONE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF THE MARSHALL PATENT WINDOW FASTENER.
M
fat
IHE NEW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at the
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
over all competitors.
THE DAVIS is the only machine that has the feed
ABOVE THE WORK which advantage cannot be too
highly estimated. Samples and catalogues free to all
parts of the colony.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO..
Sale Agents?,
674 George-streat,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Paper manufactured in New South Wales is
mported into Victoria for several newspapers. The
ast order was a two-months’ supply for one of the big
dailies The Adelaide Chamber of Manufactures
give £5O, on £250 being raised by public subscription,
towards the repression of the sparrow nuisance The
Royal Society oflVictoria have espoused Baron Maklay’s
proposal for a Zoological Station at Watson’s Bay,
Sydney Annual election of the officers and council
of the Royal Society of New South Wales takes place
on May 4....... By the R.C. concert at Burrowa on St.
Patrick’s’ Night, the snm of over £lOO was realised.
The charge of admission to front seats was 10s Mr.
William Moses, ex-May or of Windsor, has resigned his
seat as an alderman, because Windsor loves darkness
rather than light, and will not have her crooked ways
made straight The Maryborough and Gympie (Q.)
railway was completed on the sth inst. Contractors
expect to hand it over in about a month The Fitzroy
Bridge at Rockhampton (Q.) is longer than the Victoria
Bridge, Brisbane, by about 100 feet Numerous in-
solvencies have been caused at Townsville (Q.) by the
suspension of the jetty works Mr. P. F. Hanran,
an old Cleveland Bay resident, is now Mayor of Towns-
ville John Cherry, a resident of Rockhampton,
acting in ignorance (of the law, buried, without per-
mission of the authorities, the body of a child found in
a cesspit on his premises. The body was that of an
infant for whose death its mother, Ellen Barlow, has
been held to answer. Cherry was fined 40s. and costs.
There are painful rumours in connection with the
female wards of a hospital in the Wangaratta district;
the doctor has been suspended, pending inquiries
A kangaroo of the purest white colour was recently run
down by Messrs. Thome and Webster at Wahgunyah,
Victoria. ...... 'Hie roller belonging to the Corporation
of Charters Towers has been mortgaged to meet law
expenses The Mayor of Charters Towers on being
elected treated the members of the Corporation to one
bottle of champagne and two sodas. Result: a special
rate Brisbane-Sandgate railway, Bashford’s tender
accepted, £38,634 The Southern Argus (Goul-
hurn) is now issued as a daily paper Asbestos of
good quality has been discovered near Rockhampton.
The eight-hour system has been extended to the
signalmen on the railways of this colony £lOOO has
been raised at Maryborough (Q.) in aid of the estab-
lishment of a girls’ grammar school Further
numerous arrivals at Newcastle from New Zealand
New paper, the Chronicle, started at Armidale, the
third in the township The mail for Batavia which
left February per the Menmuir was lost during trans-
mission The amount of the libel verdict given
against Mr. Thadeus O’Kane, of the Northern
Miner, Charters, Towers, was at once paid
A tender has been accepted for connecting Ballarat with
its racecourse by rail The board appointed to en-
quire into the case of Mr. H. F. Neal, recently dis-
missed from the Victorian Penal Department, by
order of Professor Pearson, are of opinion that Mr. Neal
was most unjustly treated, and probably the victim of a
conspiracy The electric light is being used at the
Alfred Graving Dock, Williamstown, to facilitate the
repairs to the Sorata A new and apparently very
successful process of preserving meat has been invented
by Mr. Lee, of Melbourne A gentlemanly-looking
fellow has been victimising a number of people at
Prahran, Melbourne, by representing himself as a
census-collector, and demanding a fee of Is The
blacks have again been making free with the “ Chinkies”
on the Palmer Owing to insufficient support, the
Darling Downs Gazette will in future be published
tri-weekly instead of daily Professor Stanich, the
aurist, visits Sydney shortly, after a most successful
stay in Victoria Newcastle output of coal for the
week: 23,748 tons Smith, lately a publican at
Townsville, was lost on the road to Herberton tin
mines, and has not since been seen 32 Chinese smug-
glers were arrested by Inspector Brittain at Maytown,
Palmer River, on the 7th. Fined £6O George Hall,
master mariner, found drowned in the Yarra Gibson
tried at Christchurch, New Zealand, for murder,
was acquitted on the ground of insanity
The Edison-Bell telephone is being used with marked
success between their two warehouses by Messrs. Gow-
ing Brothers, clothiers, of George-street, Sydney A
false rumour as to a bushranging exploit, circulated by
a woman who had committed some theft and wished to
get off, led the Albury police, under Captain Battye, a
chase of many miles. The woman has since been
arrested Mr. George Coppin, of Melbourne, gave
twenty-five guineas to the Layoock testimonial
At Warmambool, Vic., the other day, one John Kerr
hall hanged his wife in a fit of jealousy and because
she would not push a wagonette to his liking. He was
sentenced to three months’ imprisonment with hard
labour The second edition of Judge Wilkinson’s
Australian Magistrate ” has been issued The New
•Caledonian escapees recently arrested at Rockhampton,
are now in Brisbane gaol During the recent attempt
to get up a mining mania at Gympie nearly 20 new com-
panies were locally floated Messrs. Ireland Brothers’
tannery, Auckland, N.Z., has been destroyed by fire;
loss, £20,300 The body of John Eooke, aged 43, has
been found floating in the harbour Charles
Bennett, seaman of the ship Corby, fell overboard from
that vessel at Miller’s Point, last Sunday morning.
His body was discovered shortly afterwards, floating ;
but life was extinet Those who control the Gympie
Mining Museum are trying to amalgamate that institu-
tion with the local School of Arts The No. 1 North
Phoenix Co., Gympie, are having a crushing which is
expected to yield 2000 oz Good gold has been got in
the North Monkland ground, in the shaft belonging to
the GlanmireCo.; also in Bill Hall’s claim at the 40 feet
level A youth named William Dodd was drowned in
Sydney harbour on the 9th, by the upsetting of a boat.
His companions were rescued with difficulty by two
boats’ crews from H.M.S. Emerald A very successful
canary exhibition was held at the Temperance Hall
last Saturday Thomas O’Brien, said to have been
formerly a publican at Sydney, was cut to pieces on the
railway line, near Eedmyre, last Saturday. He had got
out of the train for his hat, which had blown off, and
while on the line a passing train cnt him down A
correspondent writes stating that were the railway to
•Cooma taken through Braidwood, instead of as pro-
posed, it could be placed on 30 miles less ground with a
saving of the odd £430,000. A woman and a man are
reported to have been drowned at Broken Bay A
man named Negus was killed at Leichhardt|through
falling from a vehicle he was driving.
CRICKET.
A match was played on Saturday at North Shore
between the Congregational and Merksworth clubs.
The result was an easy win by 33 runs for the Merks-
worths. The batting of Carloss and Pearson, and the
howling of Moss was very effective for the victors.
A match was played on Moore Park on Saturday
between the Perseverance and Alpha clubs, resulted in
a victory for the former by 3 runs. Scores, P.C.O. 36,
Chippendale scoring 11 not out, and Hinchy 10; A.C.C.
33, Collins scoring 15. The bowling of Chippindale and
Delicamn for the P.C.C. and that of Collins for the
A.C.C. were very effective The Croydon O.C. de-
feated the Burwood United C.C. on Saturday last.
Scores: Croydon, 41; United, 25. A Dennis (18) batted
well for the winners, and G. and H. Collis for the
losers. A Dennis and M. Carroll bowled effectively for
the Croydons Alexandria v. Carthona (return
match), at Double Bay, on Saturday. The local team
scored another victory by 28 runs. The Alexandrias
went first to the wickets, and put together a total of
41, J. Macintosh (10) being the only double figure. E.
Falls howled very well, getting 7 wickets for 10 runs.
The visitors were unable to make any stand against the
encelleut bowling of H. Ellis and John Macintosh,
who quickly disposed of the team for a total of 13, of
which Tooher obtained 9by ‘good play East Red-
rem v. Hero of Waterloo C.C., at Eveleigh on
Saturday. East Redfem won by one wicket and
a , , runs - Scores, 87 and 53 respectively. The
fielding of the beaten team was very bad
Young Oxford C.C. v. Underwood C.C. at Moore Park
on Saturday. The Oxfords won by 13 runs. Scores :
Dxfords 44; Underwoods 31. Cram (11) and Cruick-
sfiank (17) batted well for the winners who were also
materially assisted by the destructive bowling of
Breakwell (good name for a bowler!) and Gibb
Rvrment Excelsior C.C. v. Oriental C. C. on the Wind-
sor Ground, Saturday last. Excelsiors won by 24 runs.
Scores :—6B and 34 respectively Balmain Colling-
wood C.C. v. Orleans C.C., at Balmain, on Saturday
afternoon. The former won by 1 wicket and 10 runs to
spare. For the former R. Neuson, D, Sutherland, and
W. Hill, and for the latter Bind and Low batted very-
well. The bowling of Hegarty and Taylor for the Col-
lingwoods was excellent......The return ma,tch at Moore
Park on Saturday, between the Llhcoln C.C. and the
Pioneer CC., resulted in a victory for the former with
11 runs to spare. The bowling of Bonnorman (what a
cricket-like name!) for the Lincolns was very good. He
took four witikets ip five balls; The Croydon C.C. de-
feated the Iron Duke C.C. on Saturday last. Scores :
Don Dukes 21, Ci'oydo'n 60 with five wickets down. For
the winners, Dennis batted and bowled well, making 36
runs, and securing five wickets for nine runs.


T3EISC0E, DRYS
397 George g
76, 78, 145, 147 Tc
33 Pitt St
IRONMONGERS, IRONS'
IMPORT!
Invite attention to their ext
which besides being the largest
varied; and comprises all the li
Engines Engineers' Materii
Agricultural Implements,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material,
Axles, Baggy.bodies, La
Pounders’ Material, Pig In
Builders’ Ironmongery, Ch
Brass Foundry, Locks,
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire
&c., &c.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled
And
GENERAL IRON:
’^^'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £410s
H E B B L E
416 GEORGE S
MACH
H
P. GREGORY
No. 11, PITT-S1
Importers of all Des
M A C H I
Have for Sa
J. A. Pay and Co.’s First Specii
Machinery—Sydney Exhibrl
Blake’s Patent Special Steam P
Rubber and Leather Belting, Ec
tucks packing round and sqi
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—]
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery (
quality guaranteed, &c., &c
Send for Circulars
KING STREET !
SINGLE and
DOUBLE-FURROW
Single-furrow 3?I.6TSgIts?» We have the largest assortment c
requirements of every district. Farmers, write us for information. V
PAIIST
HORNBY §—Made specially for colonial require-
ments, and so simplified and strengthened as to exactly
meet the wishes of our New South Wales farmers.
BOWARB’S New Pattern Ploughs, Just brought
out, and shown for the First Time in the Melbourne
Exhibition.
RARSOa
RiTCHi;
and 3. Tt
We invite
infoi
HARROWS—Zi
i
We recommend BOV&B]
have other makes, »
ympt to
(Noe. 1
>Width i
I Weight 1
lewaid’s
Miscellaneo
Q L I F FORD, LOV:
TEA IMPORT
EASTERN AND C
MERCHANT
Receive regular consignme
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all quali
Do. Indian Prize M
CHTJTNIES—Indian P
PRESERVES—Indian
COFFEE—Plantation 1
Do. „ 3
Do. „ I
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and
SAGO
PEPPER—White and I
OFFICES ;-79 TOE!
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, 3
JOHN D
IMPORTER 01
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brassw
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &
119 LIYEKPOOL STREET
PITTSTRBn
BEAUTIFUL,. nC
D}Aq o» a $&
OR
ALL WOOL
TpTWCEDi
TO
9^1
GANDY'S COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT'S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBB O T SON’S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
A LAEGE VARIETY IN STOCK.
8HEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IEEIGATIN
Engines and Boilers of all si
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Fc
> IN STOCK.
EYES
P E B P E C T
P U B I
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest An
— of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
, hiitracpa rrom a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials :—
From Dr. Lansey; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for hous
by all class* of Safety. From. Rev. Geo. Woohumgh, ]
for my threat L. could not desire anything more effecti 1
Purifier. From L. King, Esq,, Inspector of Asylunui, Sy
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newto
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney My child had sore eyes for 2!
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and frui
Purifier is unrivalled.
„. 3°!!“ Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sj
J eyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
BATHS.
139 and 141 OXFORD STREET, op
PRACTICAL RAIRCTJ
PRIZE ORNAMENTAL BLAIR - WORKER, STAGE A
Baths for Ladies and Waste combings or cuttings c
Note the address— Oxford-street, opp<
Y U
CD
e*
cc
mmmm
PRIZE
Cocoa
co
Against the world
B. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
mm
These goods i
fresh, wholesoi
and genuine. 7
Exhibition Judg
Eeport says:—
April 16, 1881.
