

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 6.-NO. 73.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, JUNE 18, 1881.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, JUNE 18, 1881.
Irish and English.
The situation in Ireland becomes every day more
terrible. Not necessarily terrible to the oligar-
chical class in England. To them, perhaps, the
crisis which appears to approach may be welcome.
Ireland is a fine property, marred by the presence
of objectionable tenants. Any opportunity of
taking these people by the throat, and either
strangling them at the moment or so handling
them that they will be glad to clear out, and leave
vacancies for more manageable substitutes, is
likely to be welcome. But the situation becomes,
none the less, terrible. Terrible to the unhappy,
baited, Irish themselves; terrible to humanitarians
and lovers of justice, wherever they may be ; and
inexpressibly terrible to such true Englishmen as
found their national pride upon national virtue,
blush for national disgrace, and tremble when
contemplating the inevitable penalty of a national
crime. The influences which have been at work
to delude the British public with respect to this
matter have been astounding, equally as to their
variety and their dishonesty, and it is not sur-
prising that a very considerable proportion of the
nation has permitted itself to be hoodwinked as
to its real interest in the repression of Ireland, and
as to the extent to which the English people have
been particeps criminis in oppressing and plunder-
ing the sister nation.
** * *
But of late the opening intelligence of the
masses has begun to tear asunder the web of false
suggestion, delusive inference, and insidious incite-
ment, which has been woven round the percep-
tions of Britons. The infatuated and headlong
recourse by the majority in the House of
Commons to arbitrary methods of silencing pro-
testations by members of its own body ; and the
undisguised preference by that majority for
forcible and unconstitutional methods where
gentle and constitutional resources had failed, set
people a-thinking. The representatives of land-
lordism and property in the British House of
Commons had chosen to risk shaking that British
Constitution which had been proclaimed before a
sacred thing which it was sacrilege to touch.
They had done this, and their excuse had been
that regular, orderly, and appointed methods of
remedying a grievance had failed. But people
began to reflect with astonishment: this is just
the case, those are precisely the arguments, of
Irish revolt, of Nihilist conspiracy, of Inter-
nationalist plottings ! In the domain of politics is
an identical resource, then, to be flesh for one and
fish for the other ? Is it commendable for a
guild of landlords and propertied men to violate
constitutional processes for their own purposes,
and yet desperate wickedness and immorality for a
people struggling for the right to live a little
better than the beasts of the field, to strike out a
similar deviation ?
** * *
This, however, is but one incident which has
stimulated thought. The upheavals of subter-
ranean democracy on the Continent of Europe,
thrusting its furious head and shoulders from the
dungeons and sepulchres into which it had been
thrust by the strong hand of Despotism, have
excited attention and awakened speculation as to
whether all the error could be on the part of
clamorers for freedom and more equal rights.
Again, the modern phase of journalism as
embodied in the great Reviews, which admit argu-
ments from all points of departure, has opened
a channel for the expression of schools of thought,
long proscribed and tabooed, and has helped
to disabuse staid people’s minds of the conception
that ideas of change and progression are necessarily
disreputable, and only compatible with violent
language and violent actions. The growth of the
Nonconformist Churches in England has also
powerfully contributed to release the public mind
from the shackles ot imitation, and to arouse the
public conscience from the slumber of acquiescence.
That atmosphere of dissent from propositions
which are supported merely by the endorsement of
fashion and prestige, which to Nonconformity is
vital air, and those traditions of disregard for mere
Authority as a standard of right-thinking, which
Nonconformity honors and proclaims, have materi-
ally assisted to set free the speculative tendencies
among the people.
** * *
So long as Church and State moved in one line,
and pressed with combined weight in one direc-
tion, it was impossible for any but minds of the
first force to move in any other, and calamitous
for all without exception who ventured on the
effort. The ideas of liberty and progress were not
merely criminal; they were not merely blas-
phemous ; they were worse they were not
respectable! This in the decent Englishman’s
eyes is the unforgiveable sin. The typical
Englishman will commit wickedness, will harbour
heretical theories, and he will condone either in
his neighbours, so long as the last essential is pre-
served. But rob him of his respectability, and he
despairs. Let his neighbour lose that, and he be-
comes a Pariah without remedy. When, therefore,
freedom of opinion began to become not incom-
Eatible with respectability—when a man could
mgh openly at Divine Right, deride the preten-
sions of hereditary legislators, and doubt the
inspiration of the law of primogeniture, without
sacrificing his standing in his church or outraging
his circle of social acquaintance, the end had
begun.
** * *
Englishmen of to-day dare to think for them-
selves. And among the thoughts which surge up,
are some that this quarrel with the Irish people is
nothing to Englishmen generally. It is not a
quarrel of races. The British farmer, labourer,
and mechanic begin to recognise that the battle
is an agrarian struggle, and intrinsically one
between rich and poor, between landlord
and tenant, between the representatives of
a conquering caste and the masses of a
laborious people. The inflammation, long so art-
fully promoted, of national pride and spurious
alienation, rapidly abates as people learn that it is
being irritated to suit other peoples’ purposes.
The ordinary Englishman asks himself what it will
advantage him to crush his fellow across the
Irish Channel. He owns no estate in Ireland.
He draws no rents thence. He may share the
crime of the spoliation and oppression, as he has
in the eyes of the world heretofore shared the
obloquy of the conquest, but he will not share the
spoils. His sons, who march in the ranks
of British regiments, and are instruments in
the hands of lie landlord class, when they shoot
down peasants in arms, and guard prisons full of
disaffected farmers, are fighting against their own
cause. They are like Bruce eating among his
English comrades with Scottish blood on his
hands. And as in the case of Bruce, there is
liability, at a moment’s notice, to a sudden per-
ception of the anomaly, followed by instant change
of camps, and enormous development of activity.
** * *
Before long, the organs of the favored classes
and privileged castes —the London Times, that
lumbering oracle of Wealth, and the loftily-sneering
Punch, the fool of Society—will lose their in-
fluence upon the nation. The nobles and landlords
who ignobly live in idleness on the proceeds of
Irish peasants’ brow-sweat, will one day have to
repress the Irish for themselves, if they can.
English farmers, peasants, and laborers will refuse
to have any hand in the crime. Perhaps even the
case may be still more altered.
** * *
Already, as we learn from an English paper, the
English Farmers’ Alliance, numbering 70 members
of Parliament in its ranks, and with an organiza-
tion extending into every country, seems to occupy
the same position in the estimation of the landlord
party in England as the Land League does in Ire-
land. Accusations of confiscation and commu-
nism are freely lavished on its members by the
opponents of reform and the advocates of injustice.
The continued misrepresentation to which the
Alliance has been subjected has tended to make
its members more alive to the injustice of the
Irish land system, and to awaken in them a just
appreciation of the true objects and principles of
the Irish Land League, from which at one time
they were inclined to dissociate themselves.
** * *
But meanwhile, alas ! indescribable horrors may
happen. The wretched Irish, ignorant—because
too impoverished to be otherwise; furious —
because irritated by sham remedies and real op-
pressions, precipitate a crisis. Whether a revolt
succeed or fail, the occurrence would be unutter-
ably lamentable, and most injurious to the cause
of liberty and social reform. Should the Irish pea-
sant succeed, like the Boers, contrary to all expec-
tation, in mastering the trained troops of Great
Britain,and achieve independence, it will be at the
sacrifice of poor men’s lives—the lives of men who
have not, on the English side, as much interest in
the quarrel as the value of the livery they wear.
Should the Irish be quelled with bloodshed,
monopoly and class-privilege will rear their crests
more haughtily than ever, and the agrarian
reform which now appears imminent will be
indefinitely postponed.
Mr. William A. Duncan, C.M.G.
Resolute, self-sustained, almost self-educated,
inflexible in the discharge of duty, but withal full
of tender sympathies for suffering or erring
mortals, and with ardent aspirations for the
beautiful in Nature and Art, William Augustine
Duncan deserves to be looked upon as one of the
most thorough and mentally complete men of a
former generation of colonists. He has been for
many years a typical servant of the Crown —far-
seeing, like Sir Edward Deas-Thomson, and as
energetic as Mr. Henry Halloran. The honour
recently conferred on Mr. Duncan—companionship
with the chivalrio order of the Knights of Michael
and George—has given satisfaction to a large
section of the community, because it is an
appropriate recognition of services honorably
rendered by an official who never fawned on men
in power and never feared the tyranny of a
martinet in office. Mr. Duncan was born in
Aberdeenshire in 1811, and as he exhibited fine
abilities at a tender age, his parents destined
him for the ministry of the National Church, and
consequently procured him the best rudimentary
training within their reach. The premature death
of his father, and a severe illness which followed
that event, caused him to take a very serious view
(for a boy) of life and its responsibilities. While
yet in his teens, he grappled with theology—an
intellectual conflict which resulted in his embracing
the Roman Catholic faith. With the zeal of a
convert, he determined to devote himself to the
“ religious state,” as it is called, and
accordingly entered the Soots’ Benedictine
College, at Ratisbon where he studied with un-
flagging zeal, enriching his mind not only with
classical learning, but with the literature of Ger-
many, Italy, and France. He afterwards studied
at Blairs in Kincardineshire, and there gave up
all idea of prosecuting a priestly vocation. He soon
after married,and started in business as a publisher
and bookseller in his native county town. His first
political essay was in favour of the Reform Bill
(1832), and he afterwards supported Lord Stanley’s
system of Irish National Education with a zeal that
never flagged. It happened that Dr. Ullathorne
(now R. C. Bishop of Birmingham) was at this
time (1838) in England, and coming in contact
with Mr. Duncan, he encouraged him to emigrate
to Australia, where he assured him of a good
position as an educator. The opportunity of use-
fulness in a laborious but honorable sphere of
effort—that of aiding in the organization of a
practical system of primary education —was denied
him. Mr. Duncan arrived towards the close of
the year 1838, with certificates of merit and char-
acter from the Colonial Office and other respon-
sible sources, but found on arrival that his occn-
Sation was gone. He refused to have anything to
o with the British and Foreign system of educa-
tion, introduced by Sir George Gipps; and
he had, therefore, to look about him for
some other employment. There are ever
compensations for the resolute and energetic.
In 1839 a joint-stock company was formed to estab-
lish a newspaper in the Roman Catholic interest.
The journal appeared under the name of the
Austealian Cheonicle, of which Mr. Duncan
became the editor and a co-proprietor. It soon
emerged from a weekly broadsheet to the dignity
of a tri-weekly newspaper ; and was for four years
conducted with great vigour. A difference of
opinion, however, ultimately arose among the pro-
prietors as to the mode in which the editor had
treated a particular question; the majority de-
clared against him, seized the plant, and he went
to the wall—the journal soon after going to the
limbo of defunct periodicals. In 1843, Mr. Duncan
started the Weekly Register on his own
account. It was a purely literary and political
publication, carefully eschewing all religious and
national topics. It commanded at once a good
circulation, but was not supported by advertisers,
and consequently languished out of existence in
two years and a-half. In its heyday the celebrated
Pastoral Association was formed, in opposition to
the Land Regulations of Sir George Gipps.
Temptations were held out by members of the
Association to obtain the support of the
Register. One distinguished “patron” sub-
scribed for fifty copies, another offered .61000
for a half-share, and others tried to blarney the
editor to support their views. He was inflexible ;
he supported the policy of the Governor, and thus
helped to save the public lands from becoming the
property of the squatters in fee simple. The associa-
tion then started the Atlas, which had a short run
of luck,but finally succumbed to pecuniary atrophy.
Among the questions most ably discussed in the
Register were those of municipal institutions (of
which Mr. Duncan may be called the father in this
colony), and national education. In 1846, Mr.
Duncan was appointed sub-collector of Customs at
MR. WILLIAM A DUNCAN. C.M.G.


Moreton Bay, and subsequently Police Magistrate.
After thirteen years’ active service he returned to
Sydney, having been appointed Collector of Cus-
toms in January, 1*59. He was for several years
a member of the Board of Education. It is need-
less to add a word of commendation on the career
of a gentleman who is so approved of by the pub-
lic ; but as it is the “ evening of life” which gives
“ mystical lore,” we believe there is not a literary
man in Sydney who could better illustrate the most
important incidents in Australian history, or ex-
pose the most absurd of colonial delusions than
ne ; and we sincerely trust that his reminiscences
will be soon published. They will furnish solid, as
well as interesting, matter—a valuable “ blend” of
the utile and the dulce. It is said he will retire
from the public service early next month.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Smallpox
Ebward Rout, carpenter, lately at work on a housetop
opposite to the premises of On Chong, Chinese mer-
chant, whose child has been sick with small-pox, is
prostrated at Surry Hills with the same dire disease.
On Chong’s child has, by the mercy of Joss, been
spared to her parents. Rout’s children and another
child, with adults making up fourteen souls, are now
cooped up with the infected man. And there is
obviously no one to blame. Curious. All pretence of
smothering up the ugly fact that it is small-pox which
is in our midst has at last been discarded. The purpose
of previous reticence has been creditable enough. It
was hoped that the malignant influence of scare might
be avoided. The public have been, as usual, on the part of
persons ineffably superior, treated as children and fools.
Now that the silence has had to be broken—for small-pox,
like murder, will out —the folly of this wiseacre wisdom
becomes apparent. The past silence, once broken, is
regarded as pretentious. A scare has set in, and people
are in a hurry to die of fright. But in reality, small-
pox is nothing so awful in itself. It rages now in Lon-
don. It is endemic in Canton. Vaccination is its
master, after all. On Chong’s child has net died. Rout
is as likely to recover. But we presume the scare will
continue, and the efficiency of that medical knowledge
so mysteriously omniscient when no serious malady
prevails, which yet failed to diagnose small-pox in the
first instance, and, so failing, permitted a medical man
to perambulate the city with infection hanging to his
skirts, will be fairly tested, in cases of hysteria at any
rate. Meanwhile, means of isolating patients may as
well be provided, not only for the period of their treat-
ment, but also during their conveyance to a proper
place of quarantine. If there be any spread of the in-
fection, it seems likely that throughout the colonies
Sydney will be treated as an infected port, and that
serious interruption, if not permanent injury, may be
done to the export trade and general business of the
city. It would have been better, it would have been—
supreme argument—cheaper, to have listened to reason
before. Once more we say, pull down these pestilential
rookeries where epidemics breed; open the heart of
Sydney to the purifying air and light of heaven; and,
once for all, put a stop to a perpetuation of these
dangers, these infamies, in the new Sydney growing up.
Let the evil work of thirty-foot “ streets ” and dog-
kennel allotments be undone, peremptorily and without
respect to any vested or personal interest, save th e
unanswerable maxim—Solus populi suprema lex: the
good of the Community the supreme law.
The Plot Thickens.
Since we wrote the preceding article, evil tidings have
come. Another case of small-pox has, it is said,
been discovered in Cnmberland-street, near the scene
of the first outbreak. Rumours come thick as a flock
of evil birds. We feel prompted to cry with Glouces-
ter, “ Nothing but songs of death I Out on ye, owls 1"
Will it be believed that when the information of this
fresh outbreak occurred, there was not a member of the
Government in the Capital P While the people were
sickening, in directly traceable consequence of the
blindness and indifference—the obstinacy and super-
ciliousness of the Premier, who told an Anti.
Chinese deputation which urged this very danger
of small-pox being introduced, that there was no
present occasion for uneasiness, no need for taking
action yet awhile —Ministers were junketing, and the
Premier “giving in marriage.” This fiddling while
Rome burns is intolerable. There has been no com.
petent authority to take peremptory and sweeping pre-
caution. An Under-Secretary has had to'Jstrain his
powers, and do in his own responsibility all that he
dared. Now that the trouble is upon us, perhaps some
will give ear to what we wrote only two weeks ago
under the now too appropriate heading of
"PESTILENTIAL SYDNEY.
“By virtue of the City Improvement Act, the
Worshipful the Mayor of Sydnev has been enabled
to do useful work in commanding the demolition
of some of the worst human piggeries in the capital
■of New South Wales. But the limits of his power
are yet too circumscribed. He has authority to
sweep away hovels: it is requisite that he should
have authority to sweep away whole sections.
Good houses huddled together may be quite as
pestiferous as wretched hovels with plenty
of space and air around them
But it is not Old Sydney alone that demands atten-
tion. There, cure is required. More especial
regard is demanded for New Sydney—for those
extensive ares as yet hardly built upon, which are
every day being parcelled out and sold in minute
patches at the auction rooms. . . . There has
been deliberately planned out a pestilential Sydney,
a city in which mean building will shoulder mean
building, in which thoroughfares will be lanes, and
lanes mere alleys. Into the the densely.packed
buildings of this New Sydney, nor air nor light will
ever penetrate. Drainage is yet unthonght
of. Human life, human comfort, is not
regarded. All warning, all experience is
recklessly thrown aside and trodden under foot in
the scramble for gain. Old Sydney, with its nar-
row and tortuous streets, its absence of architec-
tural vistas, and its defective drainage, has been
condemned often and constantly. Those who were
responsible for laying it out have been censured,
and their want of foresight blamed. But the earliest
rulers were sagacious compared with our latest.”
“Kneeling in the Snow.”
A very pretty bit of sentiment has been evoked from
an incident connected with the Great Bussian Smash—
“ Kneeling in the snow, praying in the sleet.
The Child of All the Romanoffs down in the miry
street.”
It is positively excruciating to imagine the “ Child of
All the Romanoffs ” in that humiliating position. It
is almost a matter of surprise that the snow was not
changed to Turkey carpet, and the sleet to angels*
kisses, while the darling of gods and men knelt down
to pray. Many others, in former days, have knelt,
and the hoofs of the Romanoffs have trampled out
their blood upon the snow. And often —aye, often —the
knout of the Romanoffs has torn tender flesh and
sent blood streaming upon the snow ; and the blood of
many weary exiles has stained, and their bones lie
bleaching in the snow, that the Romanoffs might reign
secure. Truly, the memory of the gods is very wide,
and broad, and deep. There is a couplet which has
often been quoted of meaner folk—-wo may be told it is
sacrilege, and blasphemy, and justification of regicide
itself, to quote it here. Ton all know it, yet we print
it over again—
“ Though the mills of God grind slowly, they grind
exceeding small;
Though He stands and waits with patience, with exact-
ness grinds He all.”
But, as a nutter of courtesy, might not the mills be
stopped while royalty passes by ?
Home Pleasures.
There has been a good deal of talk and of writing
throughout the colonies about the necessity for having
recourse to the lash for the repression of larrikinism.
Whether this may be or may not be requisite for
quelling the revolting and defiant conduct of the older
larrikins, we will consider at another time. But there
is clearly a possibility of nipping juvenile larrikinism in
the bud, or of preventing altogether its inception by
gentler and more acceptable methods. To the Rev.
Samuel Savage is due the very high merit of having,
without any striking of attitudes or any tuck of drum,
set fairly to work in this department of prevention.
One of the saddest features which larrikinism presents
s the omnipresence of its influence. It has threatened,
if not infected the young of all classes in the community.
There is no household which has been secure against
its insidious approaches. Much of the mischief may
reasonably be attributed to the negligence, the indiffer-
ence, or the overconfidence of parents. “My son” and
“my daughter” are always children of an exceptional
invulnerability. But, trusted beyond reason, and in
despite of natural reasons, even these gifted creatures
spread consternation and heart-breaking into decent
honorable homes by going wrong. Now, what is wanted
is domestic enjoyment and occupation which will be
more attractive than any forbidden freaks and frolics.
Children need to be shown the way to employ their
time, entirely to their own satisfaction, under domestic
observation. Fathers and mothers must exert them-
selves, somewhat, and all the delights of combined
pleasure and spirited rivalry need to be made acces-
sible in a fashion that will interest the young folks.
This is precisely what Mr. Savage has been attempting.
By organising an exhibition of the products of juvenile
industry and art at home, he has penetrated into a
hundred families at one stroke, and wrestled, in a
practical way not always reached by men of his profes-
sion, with the most desperate moral danger of the
times. This is the true pastoral office. Were more
clergymen to perceive that it is not the successes in the
pulpit, so tickling to the vanity, or the dry routine of
formal services Sunday after Sunday, which constitute
their true office, their cloth would be more respected
and they themselves less accessible to the touch of
satire.
The Rake’s Progress.
The City Municipal Council is, according to His Worship
the Mator, once more getting into financial straits.
This Municipality has been the Prodigal Son of New
South Wales. A paternal Government has paid its
debts once and again ; yet, as fast as the scapegrace
has been extricated from one difficulty, it has plunged
headlong into another. Like other spendthrifts, the
Council seems to be eternally in a muddle about its
affairs. So long as money is forthcoming somehow,
there is no limit to its extravagances. Such sordid cares
as keeping accounts are beneath its notice. Among all
the business men who constitute the personnel of
the Council, and whose business qualifications ore so
vaunted at election times, there seems to be not one who
is competent, or disposed, to keep a reckoning of out-
lay, or to maintain a running account of expenditure
and income. The Council is intermittently, at short
intervals, being taken by surprise. Like the rakehelly
spendthrift in Hogarth’s “ Manage d la Mode," they
receive information as to the critical condition of their
affairs with as much derision and resentment as con-
cern. This condition and temper cannot be maintained
indefinitely. The forbearance of the colony will be
exhausted in the end. The thing would be more toler-
able were the deficiency of means incidental to
business enterprise and an expenditure useful
even if extravagant. But no such palliation
seems available for the Council. Their impoverished
condition is accompanied by every evidence of
incompetence and prodigality. They can point to
no great things accomplished. Save a few yards of ex-
cellent roadway, they can refer to positively nothing of
material service which their expenditure has effected
for the community, while on the other hand at every
turn one meets with tokens of wastefulness, and indica-
tions of corruption. With the swindle in connection
with the foundations of the Town Hall fresh in people’s
minds, the plaster peeling from the ceilings of the
same building, and a general bruit and flavor of jobbery
filling the air, it is especially incumbent upon every
member of the Council to insist that all transactions
involving the outlay of money be laid before the rate-
payers and the colonists generally in the clearest
manner. Instead of this an Egyptian darkness
broods over all the contracts and dealings of the
Corporation. There is no budget, no recognisable
system of publicity and control. Where the money
goes is an inscrutable mystery. There is nothing to
show for it, unless it be rapidly enriched hangers-on
and councillors complacent and contented amidst the
wreck of the ratepayers’ concerns.
Butters’ Butter.
“ I tell you, sir,” said the Earl of Redcliffe, " I like
flattery; I like it laid on thick and rubbed in with both
hands.” Are we not all brothers of the noble Earl in
that particular? Did not Butters butter us most
thoroughly the other day, and did wa not straightway go
to work with both hands and complete the process ?
No harm in it, perhaps, and if agreeable, why not enjoy
it ? But is the case singular P Are there not hundreds
such in any year of our life ? and are we not for ever
grovelling in the dust for these offside compliments,
and feeding upon them as upon manna from heaven, or
treasuring them as most precious pearls ? And do we
derive the smallest amount of sustenance from them P or
do we not rather waste a considerable amount of energy
in the process of gathering, and believing, and digest-
ing ? This desire of flattery and clutching at compli-
ments is a universal and national failing. We waste
stores of energy and life, and fail in the effort to
persuade ourselves and others that something is, which
really is not—that King-street is straight perchance, or
George-street clean, or ether things equally absurd.
Well, it is in us to be great, to be very great, but the
batter of Butters, though rubbed in to our very hearts-
core, will never help us towards that end.
Liquor and Larrikinism.
The condition of the liquor traffic and the present
mode of licensing are subjects of general interest
Just now. The Dimohd case has thrown light on some
curious features of the latter, while the former must
always, in view of the interests involved, command a
certain amount of attention. Recent home statistics
show that the number of public houses in Londen alone
would suffice, placing them side by side, to line a street
sixty miles long. We naturally look for the necessary
consequence of this startling fact,and the police columns
of our English files promptly supply that. There is a
world-wide connection between rum and ruffianism. The
Bill Sykes of Dickens’ graphic pourtrayal is the too
familiar personification of this uncouth element of
home growth. Here in the colonies, however, we, with
perhaps questionable taste, prefer to improve on pre-
cedent, and indulge in a novelty peculiarly our own.
Adolescent larrikinism takes the place with us of old
world adult ruffianism, and seems.to: spring from muck
the same cause, acting on the somewhat different raw
material which the colonies produce. The luxury of
this kind of thing, in one shape or other, is a necessary
concomitant of our civilization—an indispensable ac-
companiment to the Spartan-like purity of our social
and political institutions. The rigidity of these
must produce a reaction of some sort; —and
perhaps the rigidity is the exception, and the
assumed reaction nothing more than the normal state
of things. That this is the correct conclusion is the
fact most likely to strike one from a perusal of the last
report of the Inspector-General of Police. With better
opportunities of acquiring information, and fuller data
on which to form conclusions than any mere lay ob-
server can hope to obtain, this gentleman gave us as the
result of his observations that the spread of larrikinism
and the growth of the liquor traffic proceed lovingly
hand in hand. Now, licensed liquor-vending is a
recognised and powerful institution with us. The
members of its hierarchy are among the most influential
of our citizens. This fact needs no illustration. With
Mr. Posbery’s experienced opinion to guide us, then,
need we be surprised at the spread of larrikinism ? To
cure the one crying curse of these fair Australian
colonies, the axe of practical legislation must be laid to
the radical evil—the bar. Publicans are too numerous all
to live honestly. Honest publicans themselves, through
their capable representative, the President of the
Licensed Victuallers’ Association, desire legal pro-
tection to their good repute against the dangers pro-
ceeding from an unscrupulous class. Undesirable inter-
ests only, therefore, can be affected by repressive
measures. The character of the trade would be vastly
improved by judicious restrictions, while larrikinism
would lose its first motive principle in the abolition
of low drinking-bors—the fruitful nurseries of crime.
A Serious Mistake.
De. Foucart’s professional zeal—or perhaps his con-
tempt for our quarantine regulations—has led him
into a rather serious little trouble. People persist in
pointing out that his latest visit to the infected premises
in George-street was only one of many; and that,
while the house was carefully closed and guarded to
prevent the dissemination of the fell germs of disease,
this blithe doctor was daily'entering and; leaving the
prohibited precincts, and unrestrainedly mingling with
the outside world. These cold-blooded inquisitors
do not stop even here, but proceed to display
their farther audacity by actually asking ques-
tions. Are doctors exempt from contagion ?—are
they above the scope of quarantine regulations ?—and
even it both or either be the case, are their
extramural patients, with whom Dr. Foucart, for in-
stance, came into daily contact in his public capacity as
Assistant Health Officer, wholly free from the danger of
contamination ? These ore the queries put by sundry
miscreants—to use that appellative in its primitive
sense—incredulous of aught that is noble or heroic.
We are now, however, likely to see the best side of our
medical men. Circumstances seem to indicate that
there will be a demand upon the highest self-sacrifice.
It is in times snch as these that instances of noble self-
devotion—almost self-immolation —have glorified the
professors of medicine. Dr. Foucart, in particular,
seems to have devolved upon him a duty which would
try the fortitude of most men. He is indicated as the
man to be shut up with sufferers from a most infectious
disease. At such a crisis one may well afford to forget
an error of judgement, serious as its consequences to
others may prove to be, and to think only of the true
physician discharging the highest and noblest functions
of his profession.
A Scratched Tartar.
We read that Rousakoff, who, with four others, in-
cluding Sophia Perovskt, was strangled on April 15
for the killing of the late Czar, petitioned for mercy
and showed signs of faltering at the’scaffold. Such
things were at variance with the determination
normally possessed by this remarkable man. A well-
informed journal says that Rousakoff and Jeliaboff, of
the butchering of whom so horrid a bungle was made,
were mercilessly electrized by powerful batteries in the
presence of General Loris Melikoff, and forced by
intolerable agony to answer questions put to them*
Science tells us that indescribable torture can be pro-
duced by such means, without inflicting wounds or even
bruises on the victim. The pain caused by electricity
is of two kinds—that resulting from contraction of the
muscles at rapidly-recurring intervals, and that
which proceeds from burning. In olden times they
used to tear asunder muscles with the rack,
crush them with the “scavenger’s daughter,” or
strain them in the cages of Louis XIY., in
which one could neither stand nor lie down. Elec-
trization reverses these conditions. By condensing on
the flesh intermittent electric sparks, the skin is burnt,
and muscular contraction at the same time produced.
For example, the scientist can plunge a man into the
agonies of the acutest facial neuralgia, make him suffer
as though his hands were in vyces and his feet slowly
roasting—all without killing him, or, indeed, leaving on
him a mark. A man treated thus would confess to
anything. Such, there is reason to believe, are the
means used by the heir of that “ Sainted Emperor”
who had three mistresses from one family, to extort
from the Nihilists the secrets locked in their breasts.
The ferocity of the scratched Tartar is now disguised
with expedients such as these. When his enemies
fall into his hands the “ Little Father" does not now-
a-days cut off their heads with his own holy hands.
Nor does he have them lashed to fiddle-strings with the
knout, or bone-broken piecemeal upon the wheel. The
apostles of civilization have learned that such gross
processes are regarded with disfavour by most people 8
It gives rise to unpleasant comment when their
enemies, once in their hands, disappear for ever or
trundled to the scaffold mere skinsful! of shattered hones
The wretches bow walk to their execution, erect un "
torn, and bruiseless. Only, they have endured worse
tortures than death at the hands of a red Indian. \ 0
trouble has been wasted in tearing insensient muscle
and bone. The scientific torturer knows how to get
direct at their nerves, and send a stream of agony
through every fibre of their being. All he has to do is to
be carefal not to so rack the brain as to drive his victim
mad. And when he has exhausted the resources of civi-
lization in the way of scientific torture, he marches his
man to the scaffold, not a hair out of order, and makes
his own bow to the world in the character of a model of
humanity.
A “Superior” Article Wanted.
The following startling "ad." from a recent Herald
is quite strong enough to speak for itself ;
WANTED, for the Infants’ Home, Ash field a
HEAD NURSE, of superior qualifications ■
salary, £3O per annum. Apply to Mrs. Windeyer’
219 Victoria-street, Darlinghurst. Open for a week. ’
£3O a year!—the wages of a 32nd class cook—the sum
paid to the Eandwick help to mind baby—the amount
given to the freckle-faced boy who sticks up the pins in
a skittle-alley—all this munificent salary will be paid
to a nurse of superior qualifications —for her “ superior ’*
services in a superior institution, presided over by
superior people, who expect their charges to receive
the most superior care and attention !
Hospital Management.
Hospital management, so far as Australia is concerned,
seems to be one of the lost sciences. Records of
miserable squabbles ’twixt doctors and doctors, or ’twixt
doctors and committees, or ’twixt committee clique
and committee clique, would make up at least ninety*
nine-hundredths of hospital history. Instead of
hospitals being, on the one hand, clinical schools of
medicine and surgery, and on the other, bona fidt
infirmaries where the sick can be properly received and
properly cared for, they are much too often places into
which it is as difficult for a patient to gain admission
as it is for the Inspector of Charities to know what is
being done with the Government subsidy. We object
to the way in which the Hospitals Vote is expended.
The £1 for £1 condition is good so far as it goes ; but
there should be further and more stringent provisions.
Not that we believe overmuch in paternal government,
but that we consider the public revenue voted for
distinctly charitable purposes should not go to swell
the bank balances of local hospitals—the committees of
which estimate the success of their work rather by
funds in hand than by sickness cured and suffering
alleviated. In return for their liberal subsidy, the
Government might fairly insist ou all cases being
admitted on application with or without a subscriber’s
order, leaving it to the medical officer to determine,
after due examination in the reception-room, wl ether
or no the particular case was one suitable for admission
to the ward. It might be that many local hospital
committees would not accept subsidy on such con-
ditions. If so, those unhappy persons who now find it
a difficulty or an impossibility to obtain orders of
admission would be none the worse off, while the State
would be relieved from the terrible stigma of endorsing
a system of callous nn-oharity by a vote “ charitable ”
only in name. To hospital committees apt to draw
harsh lines between respectable and dir reputable—
between those who have fallen and those who have
not —we commend these words of Joaquin Miller :
“ In men whom men condemn as ill
I find so much of goodness still;
In men whom men pronounce divine
I find so much of sin and blot,
I hesitate to draw a line
Between the two where God has not.”
Sackcloth and Ashes.
" The will of the Rev. Dr. Cairns, of Melbourne, has
been sworn under £10,039." So ran the newspapors.
The English of this is that the old gentleman " put by”
£lO,OOO " for a rainy day.” Sensible old man ! —but, ye
gods, what a satire! "It is easier for a camel to go
through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter
into the kingdom of heaven.” “ Think not of the morrow
what ye shall eat,” Ac. So preach clergymen and lay-
men of the Dr. Cairns class—having at the same time
laid by a quiet nest-egg of £lO,OOO. Dr. Cairns was a
disciplinarian—a very pope among his followers—rigid,
stern, uncompromising. It was he who, when the
learned Dr. Brombt published his able and liberal ex-
planation of the ever-perplexing book of Genesis (in
which he had departed from the letter, and resorted to
the spirit of the writing), hurled forth a terrible con-
demnation. A man, too, was this same Dr. Cairns,
who spoke to hig congregations as shepherds do to
their—sheep-dogs / Such as these are among the men who
profess to teach pure Christianity and to follow Christ
— Christ, who never had a second suit of clothes to his
back, never a roof under which he could claim shelter.
" Consider the lilies of the field/' He said, “ how they
grow. They toil not, neither do they spin; and yet
I say unto you that even Solomon, in all his glory, was
not arrayed like one of these.” Imagine Christ speak-
ing thus with a banking account of £10,000! Would
such a religion have lasted nineteen centuries ?
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Enormous comet visible in South Africa.
Algerian tribes in the interior have risen against
the French.
Irishwomen held a meeting in County Clare.
Miss Parnell denounced the police.
Governments of Europe troubled about United
States’ claim to have sole control of Panama Canal.
Government likely to deprive the Irish of the
right of free speech. Meetings to be prohibited. Many
arrests made.
Meeting of Irish sympathisers in Hyde Park.
Parnell demanded cessation of evictions, to avert dire-
ful consequences.
Bulgarian Christians committing bulgarocities on
their Mahommedan countrymen. The Prince has pro-
claimed a state of siege.
Gladstone announces that the Government
intend proceeding with the Irish Land Bill at all
hazards, and carrying it right through without delay.
Insurrection at Schnll. The peasants charged
the constabulary, rescued prisoners, broke up the roads,
and cut the telegraph poles. Troops sent to “disperse”
them.
A colonial has discovered that iodine is an anti-
dote for strychnine.
There are 30,000 newspapers published in the
world. Half of these are in English.


IMPORTANT
AND
INTERESTING STATEMENTS.
Bead, Mark, and Inwardly Digest—Some-
thing for Everybody.
PURITY OF FAMILY MEDICINES OP
THE UTMOST IMPORTANCE.
HOP BITTERS !
ARE THE
Purest, Best, and Cheapest Medicine ever
Made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (PO-
DOPHYLLIN ) & DANDELION.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and
Valuable Medicines in the World, and in
addition contain all the best and most
effective curative properties of all other
Bitters, being the Greatest BLOOD PURI-
FIER and life and health restoring agent
on earth.
No disease or ill-health can possibly long
exist where these Bitters are used, so
varied and perfect are their operations.
They Give New Life and Vigor to the
Aged and Infirm.
To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary Men,
Ladies, and all those whose sedentary
employments cause irregularity of the
Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or Kidneys, or
who require an Appetiser, Tonic, and mild
Stimulant, these Bitters are Invaluable,
being highly curative, tonic, and stimu-
lating, without intoxicating.
No matter what your failings or symp-
toms are, or what the disease or ailment
is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t wait until you
are sick, but if you only feel bad or miser-
able, use the Bitters at once. It may save
your life. Hundreds have been saved by
so doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask your Chemist, Druggist, or Physician.
Do not suffer yourself, or let your friends
suffer, but use and urge them to use Hop
Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
drugged nostrum, but the pnerest, cheapest,
and best Medicine ever made, and no per-
son or family should be without it.
If you have nausea, want of appetite,
flatulency, dizziness, and feverish symp-
toms, you are suffering from COSTIVE-
NESS, and HOP BITTERS is the surest
Cure.
If your vital forces are depressed, if you
have a feeling of general lassitude and
weakness, are easily fatigued, perspire
freely on going to sleep, are short of breath
on every slight effort, and have a general
feeling of melancholy and depression, you
are suffering from
General Debility,
and HOP BITTERS remove it all.
If you have a sense of weight or fulness
in the stomach; a changeable appetite,
sometimes voracious, but generally feeble;
a morbid craving; low spirits after a full
meal, with severe pain for some time after
eating; wind rising on the stomach, sour
stomach; vomiting and fluttering at the
pit of the stomach, and a soreness over
it; nausea, headache, or some of these
symptoms, you are suffering from
Dyspepsia,
and HOP BITTERS will permanently
cure you.
If yon have a dry, harsh, and yellow skin,
a dull pain in the right side, extending to
the shoulder blade and pit of the stomach ;
a tenderness over the region of the liver,
and sometimes an enlargment of this
organ; a sense of tightness and uneasiness
in the neighbourhood of the stomach and
liver: yellowness of the eyes; bowels
irregular, generally disposed to looseness;
a hacking or dry cough; irregular appe-
tite ; shortness of breathing; feet and
hands generally cold; tongue coated white;
a disagreeable taste in the mouth; low
spirits; blotches on the face and neck;
palpitation of the heart; disturbed sleep;
heartburn; disinclination to exertion —if
you have any of these symptoms, you are
suffering from
Liver Complaint,
and HOP BITTERS will cure you.
If you have a complaint which few under-
stand and none will give you credit for—an
enfeebled condition; a goneness throughout
the whole system; twitching of the lower
limbs ; a desire to fly all to pieces, and a
fear that you will; a steady loss of strength
and health—any of these symptoms show
that you are suffering from that hydra-
beaded disease
Nervousness,
and HOP BITTERS will effectually cure
you.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
WITH
HOP BITTERS,
AND YOU WILL HAVE NO SICKNESS OR
* SUFFERING.
Large, square-panelled, amber-colour bottles. White
label with green hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other. Price, ss. No other form, size, or price are
genuine. Am. Hop Bitters Company; Manufactory,
Rochester, N.J., U.S., A.
To be obtained of all Chemists and Druggists.
MONTEFIORE, STEWART, & CO..
General Agents,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
SATURDAY, 18th JUNE
mr TO SUBURBAN LAND BUYERS, SPECU-
LATOR 3, BUILDERS, BUILDING SOCIETIES,
AND OTHERS.
UNDER POSITIVE INSTRUCTIONS TO CLEAR.
SEAVIEW ESTATE,
PETERSHAM.
This Large Estate is su divided into Building and
Villa Sites as follows :
SECTION I.—SEVEN (7) ALLOTMENTS, having
frontages to FRAZER, FAIRFOWL, and YULE
STREETS
SECTION 2 —SEVENTEEN (17) ALLOTMENTS,
having frontages to NEW CANTERBURY ROAD,
YULE, HERBERT, and FAIRFOWL STREETS,
SECTION 3.—TWENTY-TWO (22) ALLOTMENTS,
having frontages to the NEW CANTERBURY
and MARRICKVILLE ROADS and SEAVIEW
and HERBERT STREETS.
SECTION 4. —THIRTY-ONE (31) ALLOTMENTS,
having frontages to SEAVIEW, HERBERT, and
FAIRFOWL STREETS, and MARRICKVILLE
ROAD,
*,* These allotments have frontages from 40 to 50
feet by about 150 feet deep, and are situated on the
crown of the hill, commanding good views of Botany
and Ashfleld
Without exception, the most improving suburb of
Sydney.
Large number of lots to choose from.
TORRENS' TITLE and EASY PERMS.
HARDIE & GORMAN
will sell by auction
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 18th JUNE,
The whole of the unsold portions of the
SEAVIEW ESTATE,
PETERSHAM,
as described above, fronting CANTERBURY, MAR-
RICKVTLLE, and other ROADS, the best
position for private residences.
INSPECT THE LAND AND ATTEND THE SALE.
LITHOGRAPHS AT THE ROOMS.
CROYDON. CROYDON.
CLEARANCE SALE.
GAD'S HILL ESTATE.
SUBDIVIDED INTO CHOICE VILLA SITES
as follows:
SECTION ONE:
ELEVEN (11) ALLOTMENTS,
being lots 15, 16,17, and 11, having 50 feet frontage
each to
HIGHBURY STREET;
and Lots 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, and 27, each 50 feet front-
age to
EDWIN STREET.
SECTION TWO:
EIGHT (8) ALLOTMENTS,
each 50 feet frontage bv 140 feet deep, and fronting
HIGHBURY STREET
and
PARK ROAD.
THE GAD’S HILL ESTATE
is subdivided on a
LIBERAL PLAN of SUBDIVISION,
each allotment having about 50 FEET FRONTAGE, by
about 150 FEET DEEP.
• * LITHOGRAPHS MAY BE OBTAINED AT
THE ROOMS.
HARDIE GORMAN
WILL SELL BY
PUBLIC AUCTION,
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 18th JUNE,
at 4 o’clock.
The above-described property.
THE GAD’S HILL ESTATE. CROYDON,
is situate close to the
CROYDON and ASHFIELD RAILWAY STATIONS,
fronts EDWIN STREET and LIVERPOOL ROAD,
which are the
MAIN THOROUGHFARES,
is situate in the immediate vicinity of the highly im-
£ roved residences of Messrs G. A. Murray, S.
dckinson, Josiah Mullens, John Pope, and others.
The chance to secure unequalled sites in the Gad’s
Hill Estate is very great, the choice of lots is large,
and the position, for access, elevation, and surround-
ings, unequalled.
NOTE THE EA -?Y TEEMS:
10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT, 10 PER CENT, in THREE
MONTHS, and the balance extending over three
years, bearing interest at the low rate of per cent, per
annum.
THE
BRUSH FARM
SALE!
ON THE GROUND !
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
18th JUNE.
AT 2 p.m. SHARP.
LITHOGRAPHS ON APPLICATION.
EASY TERMS.
FREE TICKETS.
MILLS, PILE, & GILCHRIST,
AUCTIONEERS 1 ,
CROYDON!
CROYDON!!
CHATSWORTH ESTATE!
CLEARANCE SALE.
Fronting the
LIVERPOOL ROAD,
overlooking the
GREENHILLS and GAD’S HILL.
THE MOST ELEVATED PORTION
of
CROYDON!
UNRESERVED SALE.
ON THE GROUND.
THIRTY (30) LOTS TO BE SOLD.
POPULAR TEEMS:
2s. IN THE £ DEPOSIT,
BALANCE, 36 MONTHLY INSTALMENTS ;
INTEREST, 6 PEE CENT.
Long Depths from 150 to 220 feet at
Highest Elevation at
Gentle Slopes at
Perfect Drainage at
Liberal Plan of Subdivision at
No Small Allotments at
Cheap Land at
Land must rise in Value at
CHATSWORTH
CHATSWORTH
CHATSWORTH
CHATSWORTH
CHATSWORTH
CHATSWORTH
CHATSWORTH
CHATSWORTH
CROYDON IS THE FAVOURITE SUBURB.
CHEAP PARES by RAIL to CROTOON.
FIRST-CLASS SEASON TICKETS, 3a. per week.
LADIES’ TICKETS HALF PRICE.
WORKING MEN’S TICKETS, 2s. 2d. per week.
CROYDON
is
SIX MILES FROM SYDNEY.
CROTOON, 15 MINUTES BY TRAIN.
CROYDON, THE POPULAR SUBURB.
FRESH COUNTRY AIR at CROYDON.
THE
CHATSWORTH ESTATE
8 charmingly situated on the HEIGHTS of CROYDON,
only a FEW MINUTES’ WALK from the
RAILWAY STATION.
and surrounded by first-class Properties, such as
Messrs. J Mullens', H. Hudson’s, G. A.
Murray’s, and others.
HARDIE &T6ORMAN
WILL SELL by PUBLIC AUCTION, ON
THE GROUND, on
SATURDAY, 18th JUNE,
AT 3.15 P.M.,
The above-described Property, subdivided into choice
Villa Sites, as follows :
SECTION 3.—THREE (31 ALLOTMENTS, having
frontages to LIVERPOOL ROAD, and FOUR-
TEEN (14) ALLOTMENTS, having frontages
to DEVONSHIRE S TREET.
SECTION 2.—One Allotment, having frontage to
LIVERPOOL ROAD, aud Twelve (12) Allot-
ments, having frontages to DEVONSHIRE
STREET.
THE CHATSWORTH ESTATE
Is subdivided on a liberal plan of subdivision, each
Allotment having about 50 feet frontage, with
depths from 150 to 220 feet.
The surroundings are most rural and picturesque,
and glimpses of the woodland scenery are obtainable
from any part of this Estate.
NO RESERVE. NO RESERVE.
INSTRUCTIONS ARE TO CLEAR THE LOT.
LIBERAL TERMS, LIBERAL TERMS ;
ONLY 10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT
ONLY 10 PEE CENT. DEPOSIT,
THE BALANCE EXTENDING OVER 3 YEARS.
LITHOGRAPHS ARE NOW READY.
CALL OR SEND FOE ONE.
CALL OR SEND FOR ONE.
ATTEND THIS SALE. ATTEND THIS SALE.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 18.
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JUNE 18.
ON THE GROUND. ON THE GROUND.
J^ARGEST
ESTABLISHMENT
KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
OF
THE
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PRICE LIST.
P^eS°T n ea Tea | 23 ' 23 3a - 3a *>• 43 <«. 5s
Pure Indian Tea ) * >er
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended to.
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3ld per lb.
SOCIAL.
The Catholic bachelors’ ball eventuates on July
19th, at Needs' rooms.
The Mayor of Brisbane’s juvenile fancy dress
ball comes off in July.
On dit that a new contralto at the forthcoming
Hospital eoncert will astonish Parramattans.
Mias Alice Creer, eldest daughter of the Mayor
of Newcastle, was married the other day to Mr. Chas.
M. Cane, of the audit office. Six bridesmaids.
The bazaar at the Melbourne Town Hall in aid
of the local Children’s Hospital has been very success-
ful. The contributions were valuable and artistic, and
the attendance numerous and fashionable. Beceipts,
£37000. Expenses, only £3OO.
The old country is making all the running in
Brisbane just now. One of the most brilliant of Queens-
land’s pianists, the adopted daughter of a popular stock
and station agent, has just got engaged to the younger
son of an " old country family.”
One husband, a leading resident of a certain
Victorian gold-field township, is about instituting crim.
eon. proceedings against another husband, and the
matter is so “ considerably mixed ” that the wife of
each is also instituting a divorce suit against her lord
and master.
The second annual private assembly ball took
place at Hunter’s Hill last Friday evening. The hall
was tastefully decorated with flowers and ferns, and an
assemblage of 120 spent a most enjoyable evening. Two
sisters, attired in white satin, were voted the belles of
the evening.
Last Friday, Farmer’s (Victoria House) soiree
eventuated at the Masonic Hall, and very social it was.
Attendance was over a hundred, all younsr people, no
wallflowers. Catering, music, and vocalisation capital.
The moot point of “ belle ” could not be satisfactorily
settled. General verdict: better than a ball.
A new club, the Colonial, is being formed in
London. Its members are to consist of gentlemen who
have served the Crown in India or the colonies. The
number of members is limited to 3500. The entrance
fee is £l5 155., and the annual subscription £lO 10s.
Members resident in the colonies, ho vever, will only
pay £1 Is. per annum while they remain ont of England.
Among the list of foundation members, who form the
first committee, we notice the names of Sir Henry
Barkly, K.C.8., Sir Peurose Julyan, Lord Brabourne,
Sir Eiohard Temple, Colonel G. B. Malleson, C. 5.1.,
Sir Philip Ounlitfe Owen, K.C.M.Q., C. 8., C.1.E.,
Lord Ashley, Admiral Sir William King Hall,
K.C.8., Colonel Sir Stephen Hill. K.C.M.G.,
C. 8., J. H. Puleston. Sir Henry Holland, Bart.,
K.C.M.G., M.P., Sir John Peter Grant, K.C.8., G.C.
M.G., Dr. W. H. Bussell, Hon. B. D. Boss (Speaker of
the House of Assembly, South Australia), The
Viscount Bury, K C.M.G., General Sir C. Daubeney,
K.C.8., Major-General Fielding, M.P.
LATE SPORTING.
The Patrick’s Plains Jockey Club has been
wound up.
The Melbourne hounds had an excellent run of
about 20 miles on’ Saturday.
John Laycock and Solomon row in light skiffs
over the Parramatta course, on the 2nd July, for £B5
aside.
A benefit is to be tendered on Saturday to
Keenan, the handball player. Some important matches
are to be played.
Aramac races, second day:—Produce Stakes :
Mari ana 1, Slewfoot 2. Aramac Handicap: Milnimbah
1, Culloden 2. Forced Handicap: Culloden 1.
A colt, by Irish King from Cantata, was sold
last week in Mel bo r,-’ a for 300 guineas ; and another,
by the same sire from Etoile, was sold for 250 guineas.
The race between George Sutnmerfiold and
George Irish. 100 yards, £2O and trophy, takes place at
the Association Ground at four o’clock to-day (Satur-
day).
At Kempsey, the other day, Combo, a Manning
Biver aboriginal, and a white pedestrian named Cook,
raced 150 yards. The darkey led all through, and won
by a foot.
A billiard match, for £25 a-side, 500 up, takes
place on Monday evening next at the Supreme Court
Hotel, between Messrs. P. M’Kenna and H. Boberts,
two well-known players.
A quoit match took place on Saturday, between
H. Hall and C. Carroll, for £lO a-side. Hall being
allowed 5 points in 61 up. Carroll won on the last
pitch, the game previously being 60 all. There is likely
to be a return match.
The great French prize—the Grand Prix de Paris
—was won on Sunday, sth instant, and resulted in a
victory for Foxhall, owned by Mr. J. B. Keene, an
American. Tristan was second, and Albion third.
Foxhall is a bay colt, by King Alfonso from Jamaica.
FOOTBALL.
Football has never been played under such dis-
advantages on Moore Park as during this season. The
wet weather has rendered the tnrf slippery, and in con-
sequence very few smart runs are made. The spectators
will not keep behind the boundary lines despite the
efforts of the solitary poliieman. While he is com-
polling the crowd to toe the mark at the western line,
the spectators on the Eastern side intrude more than a
dozen yards, and impede the game considerably. We
shall not have the opportunity of witnessing a good
contest until more policemen are provided or until the
Association Ground is the scene of some bladder
hunting The officers of the Detached Squadron
will play a game of football, under the Bugby
Union rules, against a Melbourne team The As-
sociation Ground not being available for football
on Saturday, on account of the wet weather, the
East Sydney and Sydney Clubs played with scratch
teams on Moore Park. There was a considerable num-
ber of spectators. The verdict wps that the Victorian
game was an improvement upon the Bugby game, but
that many of the players were not as yet sufficiently
acquainted with the rules. It was the Victorian game
with a dash of Bugby East Sydney v. Sydney resulted
in a draw, each side gaining two gaols and seven
behinds Burwood v. Eedfern, at Burweod, was won
by Bedfern by a goal and a try Carlton (Vic.) v.
South Park, at Adelaide, resulted in a win for the
Victorians by six goals and nine behinds to two goals
and eight behinds Melbourne v. Geelong, at Mel-
bourne, resulted in a draw; each side obtaining three
goals King’s School v. Wanderers, at Parramatta,
was won easily by the latter club Unions v.
Orientals, at Parramatta, was won by the latter by four
goals r n Victoria, the Victorian game only is recog-
nise!, whilst here the Bugby, English, and Victorian
strain for pre-eminence. The Victorian game should
triumph; we must assimilate, play our neighbours
—and win if possible 2nd Fifteen of Newcastle
club defeated the East Maitland Carltons by one
try to nothing Newington College defeated the
redoubtable Wallaroos by one touchdown to nil
Glenheada beat Balmain by one goal and a try to nil
Arforma beat Balmain Second by one goal and two tries
to nil St. Leonards defeated Second Wallaroos by
five tries to nil.
We acknowledge with phrenzied gratitude the
receipt of a highly-exciting serial by Messrs. Lingen,
M.A , and Tarleton, M.A., bearing the alluring title of
“ Term Beports.” It is admirably printed by Hyde and
Seeke—we mean Hyde and Co.—and we have read the
publication throughout with breathless interest. If
we have any fault to find with Messrs. Lingen and
Tarleton's agreeable addition to the light literature of
the universe, it is that there is not quite enough about
Mr. Darley in it. That gifted advocate’s name only
appears in italics on an average of about fifteen times
in every page, and we cannot but consider that this
flagrant neglect of a great man is calculated to bring
what would otherwise be an excellent and eloquent
publication into unpopularity. If the authors will
only remedy this little error, we have no doubt that
future issues of this really entrancing pamphlet will—
like Bickett’s blue—be found alike in the mansion and
in the hovel. What we have to entreat our readers to
do is to ask for Lingen and Tarleton’s Term Beports,
and to see that they get them.


BRIEF MENTION.
Another Squeers in Sydney.
There is snow on Mount Razorback. It must
look like a lather.
The tobacconist’s picnic didn’t end in smoke.
That’s how it began, though.
Since the discontinuance of lights in the tram-
cars, the returns have greatly increased. Quite natural.
The celebration of St Patrick’s Day was un-
usually quiet throughout Ireland. This looks serious.
In a divorce case at Wellington (N.Z.) the Judge
told the husband, the respondent, that he was “ a bold
liar."
“ Spontaneous ” requisition te suburban Parlia-
mentary candidate. Cost to said candidate, £33. Let
us sing, etc.
Filling up his census circular, an Auckland man
lately described himself as a “ tailor, grocer, draper,
and prose author."
A Scotchman, it is said, has bought Punch.
That publication may, we suppose, now be expected to
become humorous.
This is how they record incidents in Cooktown;
—“ Dog bit Chinaman, Chinaman hit dog, European
squashed Chinaman.”
A Sydney tailor advertises that “ the tailor
makes the man." But then a tailor is said to be only
“ the ninth part of a man.”
When a new arrival from England or America
is about to propose to a New Zealand girl, he first
enquires whether her father has had a fire.
It is rather curious that Howard, the public
executioner, should bear the same name as the
illustrious gaol reformer. What’s in a name ?
Handbills are out in London, offering .£3OO
reward for Bismarck’s letter to Earl Granville, instruct-
ing the Government to prosecute the Freiheit.
The total results of the Chios earthquake are
9000 killed and 11,000 wounded. A Chios earthquake is
more fatal than even “ Another victory over the Boers.”
Three new papers have been or are about to be
started—one in Tamworth, one at Inverell, and one at
Grafton. There are now 750 paupers in the Liverpool
Asylum.
“ Judgment has been pronounced,” says the
Queanbeyan Age. “The Press must now confine
itself to notices of tea-fights, abnormal eggs, and big
potatoes.”
They are publishing a comic version of the
Scriptures in Paris—“ La Bible amusante, for big and
little children; text by Leo Taxill; illustrations by
Fredrick."
At Tauranga, we learn by mail, .£30,000 worth
of property was destroyed. What a time the insurance
companies must be having in N.Z. I The next best
game to libel.
The mining mania in St. Petersburg is unabated
in spite of the recent smash-up. New discoveries every
week. The shareholders take their dividends in
“ sovereigns.”
Now that the corporation is “ dead broke,” it
will be found that the citizens of Sydney are unanimous
against anything savoring of repudiation, but are also
firm against paying a shilling.
Why did not the Mayor and his henchman,
when issuing invites to the picnic “down the harbour,”
intimate on the cards the place—Clontarf—selected for
the temperance org—we mean, festival ?
The trustees of the Auckland Savings Bank
offer to lend money in sums of £5O to £5OOO repayable
quarterly if desired. We will take £5OOO on these terms.
Our desires about repayment are very moderate.
The Russian peasants in the Baltic provinces
are restless and uneasy. So are the occupants of the
dress circle of a theatre we could name—but won’t.
Libel I Belud 1 “ Insecticide ” is the best thing.
A Melbourne constable, named Carter, got
drunk and dislocated the shoulder of his superior
officer, who reprimanded him while on duty. Mr.
Carter’s nose, it is understood, is now out of joint.
Despatches from Tunis state that the French
ironclads took Bizarata on a Sunday. But then the
Tunisians defended Bizarata on a Sunday, which ac-
counts for none of the Sabbath-breaking ironclads blow-
ing up.
According to the Brewers’ Guardian, the
attention of brewers is more and more directed to rice
as a brewing material. There is another material we
would like to direct brewers’ attention to—malt! It
makes excellent beer.
The governors of the Wellington (N.Z.) college,
being unable to get money elsewhere, have borrowed
£5OO at 8 per cent, from their new headmaster, on
mortgage. Now, that’s something like giving a teacher
an interest in a school.
The “funny” paper of that most holy city,
Adelaide, in anathematising a proposed glove-fight, puts
in the same category "betting, boxing, munler, and
other grave crimes.” The white journalist is evidently
played out at Adelaide.
It is reported that Wilkinson confessed to a
murder commited 16 years ago in Victoria, and charged
a prosperous tradesman in the Ovens District with
being his accomplice. The tradesman will now find the
Ovens too hot for him.
The Diocesan Synod in South Australia has
passed a resolution to discountenance “ shouting.”
This is a step in the right direction. Yelling and
whining, and banging the pulpit cushion will be con-
demned next, probably.
The cartoon in the current number of Mel-
bourne Punch is entitled “ Off to the wars again,” and
represents a battered and crippled veteran, personifying
the Reform Bill, seated on a kind of hand-barrow, borne
by the Age and Mr. Berry.
“ Yankee Tom ” died suddenly at Kingsborough
Q., while dealing a hand of cards. He was a “ square "
man was Tom; but suppose he had a couple of
“ bowers ” up his sleeve at the time, how embarrassing
it would have been for him !
A certain very well known cricketer, who is
very “ un-certain ’’ in his play, was, the other day, ex-
amined for life-assurance. It will astonish many people
to hear that the medico is of opinion that the proponent
has a fnlly-developed heart.
He was a municipal politician—a gutter-snipe
statesman. He was banqueted a week or two since at
the instance of an enthusiastic committee whom he
guaranteed against loss. Such is the glory of com-
plimentary feeds! Ha! ha!
Two lines from the evidence given at the inquest
on Peter Buckley, who drank himself to death recently
at a city public-house:—“Deceased had about 2000
drinks in three weeks for himself and others.” And
yet we have a licensing system.
Ah Chong, an applicant for the interpretership
at the Metropolitan Police Court, bases his claim,
mainly upon _ the fact that he is the “ father
of eleven children.” The Anti-Chinese Association
elation will be delighted to hear this,
Mr. Bent, the tobacconist, is too frank. At the
picnic last week he opined that if the trade were made
a licensed one it would have the effect of improving the
quality of the article supplied to the public. Perdition !
what have we been smoking all this time ?
At the newly-opened tin rush on the Wild River,
N.Q., a race-meeting was held the other day, followed
by a ball and supper. At the supper a well-known
individual created some excitement by abandoning
knives and forks and “ going at it" with his paws.
The champion compositor is employed by the
Dunedin Times. He had to “ set”“ Mr. A. C. Begg
holds fast by Calvin’s coat-tails, and pants up the hill
from kirk, Sunday after Sunday”—and he resisted the
opportunity of putting the comma after “ pants."
The Auckland Free Lance, in announcing
that Lotti Wilmot would not be able to lecture owing
to indisposition, gallantly wished her a speedy re-
covery. Now, we can’t join in this sentiment. Wo
hope that Lotti will be always indisposed—to lecture.
It has been announced that it is intended to
abolish public execution in Russia. Then they’ll
strangle his majesty in his bedroom, we suppose, like
his great-grandfather did to his great-great-grandfather,
Paul. Nothing like good old family customs after all.
At Christchurch (N.Z.) the tower of the
cathedral has just been completed, and a sea captain,
who must have a satirical turn, complains that he mis-
took it at a distance of 35 miles for Godley lighthouse,
and steered by it till he got near enough to discover his
mistake. Scoffer!
A New York firm turns out vast quantities of
fictitious honey and honeycomb. The comb is made of
paraffin wax, and is an exact imitation of the regular
thing; the cells are filled with glucose, the sweet syrup
of common com, which looks and tastes like honey.
Smart, eh ! stranger ?
There must be something elevating about coffee
planting. A Queensland paper, recording a suicide, ac-
complishes bathos thusly:—“ The poor fellow who com-
passed his own destruction was * not only’ a man of
education and great intelligence, ‘but’ he was possessed
of experience as a coffee planter!
Everyone knows how the ratepayers of Sydney
have been “ had ” by the shoddy material used in the
notorious Town Hall contracts Some of the bogus
plaster fell from the ceiling of one of the rooms of our
Hotel de Ville a day or two ago, and it’s now proposed
that the city motto shall be —Fiat justitia, mat ceiling.
The “ cnllered” gentlemen of Santa Rosa (Chili)
recently decided to remove the poll-tax on the Chinese.
Unfortunately for the latter, however, the darkies
removed the polls at the same time, and 1000 Celestials
now frisk gaily around on the happy shore. Chili is
evidently a hot climate for the wall-eyed sons of Con-
fucius.
About ninety candidates appeared at the Sydney
University matriculation examination last week.
Matters are gradually but slowly improving. Still,
look at the Melbourne 'Versity, with her three hundred
candidates at the last matric. exam. Verily, the
Victorian capital possesses some claim to be regarded
as “ the hub of Australia."
At the antipodes we reverse things. At London,
Mr. Ashmead Bartlett, the thirty-year-old bridegroom
of the maiden sixty-year-old Baroness Burdett-Coutts,
is threatened with an action for breach of promise;
whilst at Melbourne, the very-much-married and
ancient Mrs. Coutts has just gained substantial damages
from a thirty-year-old deceiver for non-fulfilment.
Yet another testimonial. Charles M‘Carthy,
who was recently sentenced to imprisonment at the
Laura Court for larceny, is the first prisoner incar-
cerated in the new gaol at Gladstone. It it stated that
ths residents of the latter place intend presenting him
with a gold watch in celebration of the event. Let ns
hope that his offence was not stealing a time-piece.
The tired traveller who, after a long day’s journey
over the boggy lands of the Manaro, tosses about in his
e allot, wishes that the man who is yelling at the top of
is voice, in the bar-parlour, that
“ He is off to his own true love.
Ten thousand miles away,”
would go at once, without making any more row.
The rage for imitating The Bulletin, after
affecting every journal in the colonies and convulsing
society, has spread to the “ Continong.” We read that
“a vegetarian society has been started in Paris, the
object being to do away with all animal food. The
Association has just issued its first Bulletin.” Heard
of the Clontarf collapse no doubt.
James Payn, the novelist, in a letter recently
received by a Melbourne man, says he heard it debated
by some scientific men whether it is possible after
shooting ones-self through the heart or head with a
revolver, to throw the weapon from one. They all
thought not, except one, an Irish Doctor. He thought
it might be done— with practice I
At the Brisbane Police Court, a German board-
ing-house keeper sued a lodger for damages to crockery,
Ac., done during a spree. There was 12s 6d down for a
tea-pot, bruised in the muss. In cross-examination,
the claimant admitted he gave only 10s 6d for the vessel,
and when asked how he came to claim 12s 6d for it,
Hans gurgled out, “ Ach! but he vas full of tea! ”
A Piedmontese paper, called the Gazette, an-
nounced lately“ We regretfully recognise the fact
that the story in course of publication in this paper
presents too little interest for the majority of our
readers, and we therefore break off its publication ’’
Now if some of our contemporaries would only think
like that when their loaders are half printed how noble
and pleasing it would be I
The committee of the Grand Juvenile Industrial
Exhibition, Bathurst, have just issued a pamphlet con-
taining most favorable notices by the New South Wales
Press on their praiseworthy enterprise. With a play-
ful humour worthy of Artemus Ward in his best day,
the printer has headed the Daily Telegraph par. with
a crest of “ three stars.” How would this do for a
motto —ln hock signe vince s ?
Mr. Barton, M.L.A., has too florid an imagination.
Speaking at an engine christening at Nymagee, the
other day, he said that “the winding engine had gone
as easy as a lady’s glove, and when the crushing engine
had started they worked together as nicely and
smoothly as a honeymoon.” Now, what we want to
know is: It this is how Mr. Barton orates at a christen-
ing, what sort of speech would he make at a wedding ?
Concerning the Latin play at Trinity College,
Melbourne, the papers report that the performance was
much appreciated by a large audience. Of course. We
can imagine the Hon. Mr. Bullock, and Messrs. Lamem,
Oldpub, Drygoods, with their wives and families, enjoy-
ing the situations, and picking out for hearty applause
all the crack sentiments; such as :
Optat ephippia bos ; piger optat arare cdballus.
A Mutual Improvement Society known as “ St.
Michael’s ’’ the other night debated on this subject—
“ Which is the more beneficial to society, the miser or
the spendthrift ? ” and decided in favour of the latter.
This sapient body are, we notice, about to argue as to
the relative usefulness of the eye and the ear. A good
subject for discussion would be—“ Which is the more
useful, the young man’s amorous yesming or the old
man’s boot ? ’’
Re Chief Justice Lilley’s refusal of knighthood,
“ The Wrecker" says that when the same London
Gazette announces the decoration of the whitewashed
political skunk, and the gallant saviour of the empire—
the tool of a party, and the ornament of a profession—
it’s time for independent men to let those who shape
the whisper of the Throne know that such titular
tinselry, though it may guarantee notoriety, cannot
confer honour. Hear, hear.
A Hibernian member of the Victorian Legislative
Assembly had occasion to address a letter to Edom.
He forgot the name of the place, but knowing that the
appellation was a Scriptural one, in all seriousness he
addressed the epistle to Sodom I It may parentheti-
cally be remarked that he was not in the habit of read-
ing the Bible, and didn’t know what kind of reputation
Sodom bore. The postmaster treated the affair as a
joke, and wrote across the envelope—“ Try Gomorrah.”
Three “ gentlemen of the cloth” were travelling
in a vessel from Sydney to Newcastle. Dinner was
served, and as each of the clerics belonged to a different
denomination the skipper was rather in a fix as to which
he should ask to invoke a benediction. He, however,
remembered that while travelling in the vessel some
time before one of the “ clargy" had “ forgotten" to
pay for his dinner. The skipper decided to say say
grace himself, and delivered himself os follows, “ For
all that we are about to receive the steward expects to
be paid.” Tableau.
The Queensland officials now distribute blacks’
blankets by hanging them on the boughs of trees. The
blankets are invariably red and blue, and are usually
cut into stripes to ornament the head-dress of gins and
braves. The Cooktown Herald says that the annual
distribution is about as absurd an evidence of mis-
directed philanthropy as the world can show. The
Government is sentimental and theoretic in its every
act, and scorns to accept practical suggestions for
bringing in the blacks and teaching them to work—the
real basis of civilisation.
The sapient Sydney correspondent of that clever
journal, the Barwon Argus, says, with reference to
the Clontarf libel case, that “if a plain, unvarnished,
reporter’s-like account had been published by the
writer, there is no doubt but that no libel could have
been brought home to the paper. On the contrary, it
would have gained the day with flying colors.” In
other words, there’s no earthly doubt that had
some ungrammatical nincompoop been allowed to write
for The Bulletin on the occasion in question, no notice
would ever have been taken of his inanities—either by
the people who have kindly fitted on the cap or the
general public.
This comes from Honolulu: —“It was hot,
deuced hot, last Monday. So thought a Newfoundland
dog. He therefore adjourned to the drinking fountain
at the corner of Bethel-street, and clambering up,
quietly curled himself into the basin and allowed the
stream to trickle gently over his back. A newly-
converted temperance man who happened along, wanted
a drink, and stepped up to the fountain. He sprang
back suddenly exclaiming, “ By Jove, even water won't
do it— l’ve got ’em again! ”
A fact. A young lady called at the Australian
Museum, and said she had heard the Curator wanted
some Anstralialian gems. Mr. Ramsay : “ Yes. Cer-
tainly.” Y. L. : “I thought I would do. I’m an
Australian.” Mr. E. : “Well, really— Eh? I don’t
think, ah—” Y. L. ; “ We won’t quarrel about the
price. I’m pretty, and will draw the young men at any
rate." Mr. E.: “ Well, I begin to think you will do.
We do want rough gems—unpolished, crude.*’ Bang
went the door. She’d gone.
The 6 a.m. Waverley tram is almost exclusively
patronised by working men, who naturally smoke by
the way. Lately, however, a tram official from King-
street has interdicted the practice, and talks prosecu-
tion. Considering that, as already stated, nobody
travels at this time but the smokers themselves, and
that the cars have plenty of time to get aired for non-
nicotinous (esthetics before the regular traffic com-
m ences, the tram magnate’s action is considered rather
a cross-grained stretch of officialism. The vulgar
working-man calls it something else.
“ Patriotic Sentiments on the Chinese and
Polynesian Questions ” can now be had for the small
sum of sixpence. With a modesty bordering on the
angelical, the author withholds his name for the pre-
tent, but graciously describes himself as a “ future
legislator and probable Premier.” However, people of
this kind are so common now-a-days that the identifica-
tion is not complete. For all we know, Dominic Sensee
may yet be Premier. We have to acknowledge the
receipt of a note from the printers of Ihe above
pamphlet, “respectfully soliciting an order.” We im-
mediately sent six—for the Soup Kitchen.
The following brilliant ad. is from the Herald
—not from Punch :—“ Mr. A. W. Sutton is the owner
of Waterview Estate, Fivedock Park, to be sold on the
ground. This Day, at 3 p.m. Lithos. ready. Torrens’
title.” What the marriageable girls out Ashfield way
are now bursting to know is whether Mr. A. W. Sutton
is to be sold in one lot or out up to suit small pur-
chasers. Also, is it to be on a 99 years’ lease, or is the
title Torrens ? Lastly, it would interest us all to know
what Mrs. Sutton thinks of the business ?
Butters has written another letter to The
Argus explaining that he didn’t mean anything deroga-
tory to Melbourne in his former epistle. He now says
that he doesn’t believe there is a finer city in the world
than Melbourne to live in, if her Corporation would but
rid her of her stenches, her dust, and her filthy ditch
(the Yarra) reeking with abominations. Now we are
not going to hear Sydney belittled in this fashion, and
what we say is that there would not be a finer city in
the world to live in than our city if her stenches, her
dust &c., would but rid her of her Corporation.
He was the son of a clergyman, and the accepted
of an heiress, whose parents were of the severely moral
type. While taking out his handkerchief in the pre-
sence of the parents, he pulled out a pack of cards
and an old racing book. But he had been to Sunday
school, and quickly exclaimed: “ Why, there, I’ve put on
my father’s coat." There’s trouble in the church in
consequence, and the parson will either have to resign
or the son lose the heiress. Moral: When going
courting in a serious family, leave your prayer book
and your sporting mems. at home.
Printers will appreciate this joke. The
Protestant Standard has taken fright at certain pro-
visions of the Printers’ Provident Society, which state
that “ the Provisional Committee ‘ shall bring the
subject before their respective chapels.’" The
Standard wonders what the thing has to do with
chapels or churches at all! For historic reasons, every
printing-office is known to the profession as a “ chapel,”
and the overseer of it is designated the “father." The
words “ chapel ” and “ father ” are to the editors of the
Standard what a red bag is to a bull. All printers are
not “ papists,” and there are other “ fathers ’’ besides
father-confessors.
Someone has handed ns a copy of the following,
which purports to be a genuine document:—“ The
Mayor of Sydney having inspected the portrait of the
Premier, desires to record his opinion." Now for art
criticism : —“ I consider the portrait of Sir Henry
Parkes, painted by Gladstone Eyre, is a first-class like-
ness, and the painting appears to me to be beautifully
executed, and I would recommend everyone to inspect and
judge for themselves. (Signed) John Harris, Mayor of
Sydney.” This is all right, and Gladstone Eyre’s for-
tune is assured, of course. But why that last sen-
tence ? Why go and inspect after the Mayor has pro-
nounced ? And by the bye, the Mayor might have
thrown in a few words about composition—that’s his
forte evidently.
The Australasian, in a trenchant leader on
the Nihilist proclamation, remarks that the Nihilists
have been driven, as the weaker body is always driven,
to strategem and deceit; that the quarrel is a civil
war conducted under the form of assassination; that
the Nihilist proclamation, the most audacious and terri-
ble Petition of Bights ever presented to any Sovereign,
cont nins much that appeals strongly to the sympathy
of Englishmen ; that the Nihilist programme is not
only reasonable and just, but it offers the only possible
solution of that terrible enigma which Russia must
either answer or perish. This kind of article differs
somewhat from the maudlin drivel about “ sainted
Emperors ” and “ martyred Liberators ’’ that we of
Sydney have had served up to us lately.
At Albion, Breakfast Creek, Q., the other
evening, half the male population, married and single,
turned out to “ tin-kettle a newly-wedded couple, whom
they serenaded until they were bought off. The
plunder having been invested in iiquor, they proceeded
to tintinabulate another happy pair, who, however, had
left for home before the arrival of their would-be
tormentors. But this the tin-kettlers refused to
believe. They used abominable language, hurled
showers of stones on to the roof, out open the head of
the bride’s father, frightened the mother into hysterics,
and kept up the row till nearly midnignt. And this is
what the “ happiest day of my life " has come to in
Queensland!
This is how they did it at a Northern race-
meeting. They were bookmakers on a small scale.
A grey horse was the favourite for a certain race. One
sovereign was the combined capital of our heroes, and
their wits were set to work with a view to increasing
the totality. A countryman was loud in his praises of
the grey. “ I’ll lay a pound he can’t win," said William.
“ Done,” said the countryman; and the money was
staked in the hands of William’s friend. The two
“quid” were handed back to William. “I’ll lay
another two," cried William. “ A wager,” said the
countryman; and so on until a “tenner” had found
its way to the firm. Then William’s friend handi-
capped himself for a start; and as the crowd sang out
“ The grey 1 the grey I ” William as energetically cried
“ Away! away! ”
The following letter comes from the Czar:—
“ Sir—l writeobeleskoff in respectovitch my troublesieff
with my subjectsasky. My postovsky of Czar is get-
tinganavoff varioske stalerme. I livotchy in hourly
dangerenne of my lifeseoff. The Princesserina has
toldolov me that I had far betterouskie resigniskoff.
And I mustov sayow that I think so neitherevoff. This
momingerouskie I sendieff in my resignationourdolo-
rousky, and I comevitch outow Australiasky, and
wantyskoff to know whetherivitch the positionyerme of
Fighting Editoryskoff is not vacantyvitch. I believeny.
rouka that that billetyoff is the only one that 1 canasky
safelyotchy filleeryieffyvitch, and thereforyskofl, Mis-
teryerm Editoryslovasky, I begolov the extensionygalov
of your kindouski protectionarasky.—l am, sir, &c.,
Axexandeovitch HI.
The Auckland Observer informs us that the
“ drawing of the Observer’s Easter prizes took place
at the office in the presence of the usual committee
and a number of the public interested.” The prizes,
we learn, were of “a magnificent suite of furniture,
consisting of sofa, chairs, &c., nicely upholstered in
red cloth; a set of gold studs; three cloth-bound
novels by eminent authors ; and six pots of preserves.”
Running the Observer must be a most exciting occu-
pation. No Sydney journalist could give a set of studs
to his subscribers—though he might offer the certificate
of hypothecation—and the jeweller’s bill at the
time. We intend to give prizes shortly, but so far» 6
have only decided on three of the premiums—namelv 6
neatly-framed libel writ, “ the portrait of a «trenf’i a
man,’ ’’ and three tickets for Clontarf next Bosir
Day.
A recent Echo contains two startling items
The first is—“ among our most successful von*
painters are Mr. and Mr. . Their mother
paints.” Rather rough on the old lady, isn’t it ?
No. 2 tells us that “ the Skye-terrier mode of dressi*
ladies’ hair is about played out, and the latest fad is i 8
“push the said hair off the forehead and wear it raisAU
on the top of the head.” '1 his is highly consoUmf
because nothing on this earth makes a fellow so mad as
to see his adored wearing her hair on her toes. “ The
new mode if carried to the extreme,” continues the Zir
Zag man, “ will make some of its assumers very lifeo
Fijian Chiefs equipped for a war dance." Now peoffip
who deal so much in missionary matters ought to know
that when a Fijian chief gees on the war-path he
generally undresses himself. And yet the Echo tells na
that crinolines are about to become popular We
suppose the Zig-zagger squeezed a lemon in it this time
“ A Census Collector,” writing in the Gunda-
gai Times, says that “not one out of every six youmr
bushmen are in really sound, vigorous health. The
other five are more or less suffering from dyspepsia ”
And then the writer goes on to say what dyspepsia is
like. However, we once knew a bushman who wasn’t
dyspeptic. He is a surveyor now, near Dnbbo ; he was
then cutting up Tuppal run, near Deniliquin. ’He was
very fond of beef tea, and one day after the cook had
cut up about slbs of beef and allowed it to “ draw ’’ all
day, the non-dyspeptic came home and drank the whole
of the liquor at a draught. An hour afterwards he sat
himself down and ate three-quarters of a pound of meat
“ off the coals," and, say half-a-pound of damper. Then
he smoked four pipes of Barrett’s twist, and went to
roost. Next morning, after smoking for an hour, he
ate meat which, before being cooked, weighed and
drank a quart of strong tea. And this is the kind of
thing that the average bushman does—on a small scale
of course. *
“Dead Candidates,” says Louise Michel, “are
at once a flag and a revindication, and they are just as
great at the revolution itself." Ten years before
Michel’s chat, Artemus Ward said, “ What we want now
is someone able to rise up to the emergency and cave in
the emergency’s head," and, believing the right man
was to hand, the genial showman continued, “At a
special congessional 'lection in my district the other
day I delib’retly voted for Henry Olay. I admit that
Henry is dead, but inasmuch as we don’t seem to have
a live statesman in our National Congress let us by all
means have a first-class corpse.” The trouble now is to
discover whether Michel copied from Ward, or Ward
from Michel. As for ourselves we have improved on
the pair because, although we do not exactly return a
first-class corpse for Parliament, still our dead voters
have a pretty reasonable share of the fun in almost all
elections—especially at South Sydney. On the whole
however, a deceased representative would in many
cases act most beneficially. A corpse has one great
advantage over most of our politicians, inasmuch as it
knows when to close its mouth and how long to keep it
shut. *
The Molong Express publishes an eighteen-
line “local,” which states that “on Friday last E.
Webb, Esq., M.L.A., of Bathurst, accompanied by his
lady, paid Molong a visit, and during their stay in town
were the guests of G. H. Tempest, Esq., of the A. J. S.
Bank. . . . E. Webb, Esq., and his lady paid a visit
to several friends in the Molong district, and we hear
that they also visited the Hon. Jehn Smith, M.L.C., at
Gamboola. There is some talk of a deputation of the
leading gentlemen intending to read an address of
welcome to one of Bathurst’s leading merchants, and
certainly Molong should feel deeply grateful to E.
Webb, Esq., M.L.A., for his kindness in promising to
assist the member for the district (Dr. Ross) in any
matter for the welfare of Molong. “E. Webb, Esq." is
evidently “some beer” in Bathurst as well as in
Molong, for the Western Independent solemnly copies
the par.—esquire and all. However, we notice that
though both papers use the “Esq.” three times they
only bring in the “ M.L.A." once. “ Esq.” is, therefore
we presume, a bigger title than “ M.L.A." in the Bath-
urst district. The public executioner is an ‘ Esq. " but
he’s not an M.L.A.—though he ought to be one. ’
A correspondent complains that the Civil Ser-
vice co-operative society, who holds a wholesale wine
and spirit license, are not only in the habit of sellimr
single bottles of liquor, but also of allowing glasses of
grog to be consumed on their premises by customers
Our correspondent says that the employes have instruc-
tions to serve only members; but he points out that as
the members’ list numbers 1,500, those of the society’s
officials whose duty it is to sell stimulants must often
serve a non-member who comes on his own account or
in company with a friend who is a member. Such a sys-
tem, which, as the Attorney-General, a District Court
judge and a clerk of the peace are members of the
society’s board, must be taken to be technically legal
is in our correspondent's opinion, decidedly injurious’
as it offers facilities for sly and solitary drinking which
could not otherwise be enjoyed. It is also at variance
with the spirit of the licensing system, unjust to
ordinary licensees, and in contravention of the pro
gramme laid out by the society at its inauguration. We
do not know whether our correspondent is rightly in
formed, but should his statements be correct we think
the law in regard to the sale of liquor at “ clubs ’’ will
bear amending.
Dion Boucicault has written six original plays
and sixty Boucicaultisms.
Gustave Dord is plunged in mourning. He has
lost his well loved mother. She was his housekeeper.
Mias Amy Cochrane, saloon passenger per s.
Wafcatu, from Wanganui to Wellington (N.Z.), was lost
overboard.
Shortly before the Czar’s death, a poor artist
wrote to the Princess Dolgorouki for the modest sum
of 50,000 roubles. The “ Grand-Duchess,” as the
servants of the Russian court call her, showed the
letter to the Czar, who was highly amused, and said the
young fellow “ deserved something for so daring a
stroke of financial impudence.” He gave orders that
“ three ciphers should be struck off," and the remainder
(fifty roubles) be sent to the petitioner.
The London paper, The Cuckoo, is now edited
by Mr. Phil. Robinson, Edmund Yates having retired
from the management of that evening sparkler. Mr.
Robinson is also on the staff of the Telegraph the
London paper, of course—from which journal he re-
ceives £BOO per annum. It is therefore presumed that
the tribe of Levi is commercially interested in The
Cuckoo. This supposition is borne out by the pains
that journal took to whitewash Mr Lawson, during
the hearing of the libel case.
Lloyd’s News has the largest circulation of
any of the London penny weeklies. That paper has
now reached its 2000th number, and with it a circulation
of over 600 000 copies per week. It is said that some
640 miles of paper are required every Saturday for this
enormous pile of papers. These figures are startling,
but can be made to look much more imposing by cal-
culating the length of paper required for another 2000
numbers of Lloyd’s. This sums up to the pretty total
of 1,280,000 miles, or put another way, it would give
about fifty paper-belts for the waist of the globe!
The editor and founder of this paper was Mr. Douglas
Jerrold, and his son, Mr. Blanchard Jerrold, bma suc-
ceeded him in the editorial duties.
When the present Czar was Governor of Poland
it used to be a standing joke in Warsaw that the
favorite food of the courtiers was tallow candles. Pos-
sessing a keen sense of the humorous, the Grand
Duke (as he then was called) gave a grand banquet, and
when the feast was in full swing rose to his feet and
said—“ Now, you are about to taste our famous national
dish.’ A gorgeous flunkey appeared, bearing a similar
dish laden with unmistakable tallow candles. The
odor was quite enough to convince the guests that
there was no sport, but great reality. The Grand Duke
helped himself, and proceeded to eat his candle with
evident relish. Several guests, over complacent fol-
lowed suit, but turned pale at the first bite. After
enjoying the general confusion for a few minutes, the
Grand Duke burst out laughing, and allowed himself to
be questioned. The candle he had devoured tamed out
to_ have been made of vanilla cream and other nice
things, and had been easily recognisable from its genu-
ine fellows. * The fact is,’ observed the host, • you are
never tired of repeating that we Russians eat candles.
So I thought it would be agreeable to you to find your
statements strictly correct.’ ”


Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., ia now registered in the Australian colonies ot
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham. Mass.— Adv.
The three first Wranglers at Cambridge this
year are stated to be all practical abstainers from al-
cohol and tobacco.
Diphtheria is said to have been cured in Germany
by the use, as a gargle, of s decoction of blue gum
leaves and the inhalation of the steam therefrom.
Western Australia is getting civilised. Sir
Thomas Campbell, editor of the West Australian, has
commenced proceedings against the Perth Inquirer
for alleged libel.
“ W’hat did you say ?”—The latest improvement;
on the popular “Goto the ball this evening?” is the
following;—“ Say!" “Hey?” “ What did you say ?”
Didn t say. *• Oh ! thought you said !’*
A man named Griscom has commenced a forty-
five days’ fast at Chicago. However, the fasting
woman of lowa city, Hattie Duell, died on the llth
May, after 47 days of it. There are compensations, you.
Government interpreter at Melbourne says
that Chinese leprosy is not contagions, and dies out in
three generations. He also says that small-pox is well
* n anc * vaccination universally
. Nicolai Simonoff, 7ft. sin. high, a Russian of 23
is now being exhibited in Paris. He was of the ordinary
height until he was 18. Princess Paulina, his com-
pamon, the new dwarf, is Ift. 2in., and is held by the
giant in his outstretched palm.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping.
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
as k®* ll # a wholesome and refreshing
article or diet.—Karl Theodore Staigek, analytical
chemist. —Advt.
The Referee.
SPORTING PIXTUBES.
RACING.
Bendigo Jockey Club Winter Meeting Jane 22.
Raymond Terrace June 22, 23.
West Maitland, Myrtle v. Elos, mile June 27.
Victoria Amateur 'Turf Club Meeting July 1.
Rockhampton July g j
Hay .’.... July’l2.
Clarence Eiver j u jy i3 t 14.
Deniliquin July 19’ 20!
Maryborough (Q.) July 21, 22.
Peak Downs Turf Club July 21, 22.
V.K.C. Steeplechase Meeting July 23."
Jerilderie Jockey Club Meeting July 27.
Echuca Annual Meeting August 4.
Ballarat T. C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville August 11, 12.
Sydney Tattersall’s August 13.
Gympie August 24, 25.
Hawkesbury R. C. Annual August 25, 27.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting Septembers, 6, 8.10.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting October 15.
Kensington Park Meeting October 22.
Warialda J.C. Annual. December.
A.J.C. Summer meeting December.
AQUATICS.
Hawthorn Grammar and Kew High Schools
Four-oar June 18
North Shore E.C.—Junior Double Sculls July 2.
Amateur Sculling Eace.—
Mr. A. Finlayson’s Trophy July 23.
Sydney Bowing Club Regatta July 30.
Boyd v. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Boss August,
Trickett v. Boyd September.
Bush v. Laycock September.
Walker Whisky Trophy September.
N.S.W. Bowing Association Regatta October 15.
FOOTBALL.
Wallaroo v. King’s School June 18.
Balmain v. Wallaroo June 25.
University v. Wallaroo .........July 2.
New South Wales v. Victoria, at Me1b0urne.........Ju1y."
PEDEBTEIANISM.
Martin v. Morgan (3yds.), 120 yards.
Association Ground June 18.
Summerfield v. Irish, £4O, 100 yards,
Association Ground June 18.
Cooper v. Kenny, 150 yards, £5O, Nelligan June 27.
Six days Go-as-you-please, Ballarat June 27.
O’Connor v. Everley, 1 mile, £4O, Botany July 2.
Warton v. Brennan, 48 hours’ go-as-you-please,
£lOO, Grenfell July.
Oddfellows’ Handicap, Richmond July 16.
COURSING.
Victoria Club June 23.
Australian Club (Shibnal Plate).... July 8.
New South Wales Club (Woodstock Meeting)...July 12.
Victoria Club July 13.
Waterloo Cup !.”july 15.
New South Wales Champion Stakes August 5.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) August 11.
Victoria Club August 18.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
A hunt club has been established at Ballarat.
Monmouth is first favorite for the Victorian
Derby.
Sixty-four nominators for the Waterloo Cours-
ing Cup.
South Hamilton and Constance have been pur-
chased for India by Mr. H. Eyder.’
Mr. N. R. Bond has been appointed secretary
of the Victorian Amateur Turf Club.
Ten entries for the Maryborough Champagne
Stakes, and eight for the Foal Stakes.
Query. What clubs are to play the first foot-
ball match on the Association Ground p
Mr. F. Wentworth has taken the Hon. James
White’s place in the Australian Jockey Club.
The Maribyrnong Plate has an entry of 134, so
that without a starter it is worth over £llOO.
At the Kensington Park (Vic.) races, on Satur-
day, the June Handicap was won by Harp of Erin.
Only three acceptances each for the Dalby
Flying Handicap, the Town Plate, and the Club Han-
dicap.
Entries for the champion gold medal of the
Annandale Bowling Club close on Saturday, the 18th
instant.
Seventy-nine entries for the Hawkesbnry Grand
Handicap, and seventy-three for the Hawkesbnry
Guineas.
The Carlton Football Club, of Melbourne, have
been playing a series of matches at Adelaide during the
past week.
Monmouth, Darebin, Somerset, and Spinning-
dale are most in favour for the Victorian Derby in the
double betting.
The price paid by the Hon. James White for
the foal by Musket, from Sylvia, is about the highest
ever given for a foal in Australia, viz., 1250 guineas.
The Waddy Challenge Cup was formally pre-
sented on Saturday to the Newcastle Ironclad Cricket
Club, by the donor, Mr. Richard Waddy, of Morpeth.
The nominations for the Woodstock July Meet-
ing of the N. 3. W. Coursing Club not having been filled
up, it has been resolved to keep them open for another
week.
Mr. S. Franck, the patentee of the totalisator in
Australia, is commencing a series of actions against
several of the leading New Zealand Clubs for infringe-
ment of his patent.
The Albury Racing Club has decided to give a
Sires’ Produce Stakes for two-year-olds at the annual
meeting of 1834. The prize will be a 10 sov. sweep,
with 50 sovs. added.
The events of the Association regatta will be
races for senior oarsmen in outriggers, senior scullers
in wager boats, j onior oarsmen in outriggers, and unior
scullers in wager boats.
The medals won at the late Association regatta
have arrived from England, and have been handed over
to the winners. In future, medals are to be given to the
coxswains of winning boats.
Aramac (Q.) races. Thursday—Maiden Plate;
Lucy 1. Corinthian Cup; Pleur-de-Lis 1„ Don 2,
Haylewood 3. Flying Handicap: Minnimbah 1, Cul-
loden 2. Town Plate : Marathon 1, Hawthorn 2.
It will be fatal to the popularity of the inter-
colonial outrigger races if the venue be changed from
the Parramatta to the Nepean or any other river. Is it
possible that the regulations cannot be enforced ?
The Murrnmbidgee Turf Club was to have had
a meeting to fix the date of the Spring Races, but a
quorum failed to turn up. This is very unhealthy for
Wagga, which has always been considered a very
horsey town.
The frisquettists are now agitating for a piece
of the Association Ground at the south-western portion
of the ground. There is room enough, and a made
piece on the waste spot would add to the general beauty
of the ground.;
The N. S. W. Rowing Association intend to
initiate a race to be contested for by crews from Public
Schools. The Waltham Watch Company have given a
gold watch to be rowed for under the auspices of the
Association by junior scullers in wager boats.
Entries for the Ballaratgo-as-yon-please tourna-
ment close on 20th June. The first prize is £100;
second, £5O; third, £25; and fourth £lO. £lO will be’
given to any man who covers 500 miles, and a gold medal
will be given to the man who beats Edwards’ 4511 miles.
The two undecided events of the Mercantile
Rowing Club regatta came off last Saturday, and re-
sulted as follow : —Senior scullers’ clinkers: F. Ball 1,
H. Wilkinson 2. Scratch fours.—First heat : D.
Fletcher C. Booth, C. Williams, F. Ives (stroke) 1;
second heat: G. Hebhlewhite, L. B. Mitchell, F.
Hebblewhite, J. MoParlane (stroke) 1. The final heat
was won by several lengths by Mr. Ives’ crew. Mr.
Brett acted as starter, Mr. Benson as umpire, Mr.
Lockrey as judge. At the conclusion, the Hon. J. B.
Watt, M.L.C, presented the prizes to the winners in
the club-room.
WHle rowing on the Thames recently, Ned
Trickett narrowly escaped serious injury, some mis-
ohievious individual having thrown a missile at him
from the bridge at Hammersmith. The stone smashed
through the canvas of his boat, but did him no injury.
At a race meeting in the sunny South, five horses
were nominated for the event of the day. The toy
weight was lOst. ; next horse, Bst.; third, 7st. 71b ;
fourth, sst. 71b. The handicapper trained the last-
mentioned horse, and backed the third and fifth. The
third won.
The second handball match between A. Dillon
and W. Kelly came off on Saturday, at Hamilton. The
result was a victory for Dillon by 6 points. As the
highest agregate in the two matches was to win, Dillon
is thus the victor by 57 points. Kelly did better in the
Hamilton match by getting first toss, and scoring 41
before Dillon got in over a disputed ball.
An “ Old Cricketer” writes in the last Austra-
lasian “Some thoughts on bowling,” and advocates
“ shooters.” Everybody admits that shooters are
almost unplayable, but, on good ground, they cannot
happen. The man who can bowl them at will should go
right into the best elevens, but he cannot be found
while wickets are attended to as they are nowadays.
Toowoomba (Q.) races. Friday.—Hurdle Race :
Pantomime 1, Banker 2. Two and three year old Han-
cap : Legerdemain 1, Eclipse 2, Detectives. Clifford
Plate; Clifford 1, Galatea 2, Warhawk 3. Gilpin Stakes :
Velocity 1, Flirt 2, Melrose 3. Club Handicap: Galatea
1, Proctor 2, Detective 3. Hurry Scurry: Velocity 1.
If the alleged invention by Mr. Maguire of an
improved sliding seat be a true bill, then we are in-
dined for the first time to doubt Hanlan’s genuine
superiority as a sculler. But why tell us all about it,
Mr. Maguire ? Get an outside sculler and win matches
with the contrivance, and when he defeats Bush, Lay-
cock. and Tricket, we shall begin to admit that there is
something in the boat.
When Mr. Branch heard that Baltic and South
Hamilton were sold for India, he notified that he would
scratch all wagers that he had made in which either
horse was mentioned. Such conduct is worthy
both of mention and commendation. A certain
Sydney bookmaker, who is in business not far from
King-street, was the first to introduce this kind of fair
play between layers and backers.
As reflections have been made in certain quar-
ters upon the fact that Cunliffe, the slipper of the
N.S. W. Coursing Club, was also a trainer of some of
the competing dogs, he has thought it advisable to
tender his resignation to the Club. Fault has, at
times, been found with his slipping, but though he may
at first have made mistakes, he showed great care, and
improved wonderfully. His slipping, at Woodstock,
was beyond all reproach.
The race in England for the 100 miles champion-
ship bicycle race terminated in a very close and excit-
ing finish. Waller and Higham rode locked together
till 300 yards from home. By a succession of desperate
spurts Waller tired his oponent, and came in a winner
by about five yards in 6h. 43m, 10 4-ssecs. Bicycling is
greatly encouraged in England, and, viewing the close
contests which took place at the late athletic meetings
on the Association Ground, it is likely to be no less
successful here. We want more bicyclists however, to
attempt long distance races.
The first race-meeting held at Herberton (N.Q ),
on 24th and 25th May eventuated thus; —Plying Handi-
cap : Cigarette 1, Moss Bose 2. Members’ Cup: Ban-
don 1, Inkermann 2. Herberton Handicap : Coquette
1, Hetherbelle 2, Victor 3. Second day.—Hack Bace :
Emigrant 1, The Bake 2. Maiden Plate: Cigarette 1,
Bockett 2. Publicans* Purse: Coquette 1, Bandon 2.
ParewelljHandicap : Hetherbelle 1, Coquette 2. Forced
Handicap : Cigarette 1, Moss Bose 2, Coquette 3. At
the settling nearly £3OO was paid away. Coquette was
raffled for £l2O and won by Mr. A. Monro.
This is rather an emphatic par. from “ Pen-
dragon” of the Befebee:— “l will lay Myers (the
American champion amateur) £lOO that he does
not run 100 yards inside 10 seconds in England.
If, when he is hero, he happens to be sated with his
conquest over the amateurs, I will guarantee to find a
professional sprinter—not Hutchens, and not altogether
a baokmarker—who shall give him 2 yards in 130; the
amateur to take a trophy if he wins, and the ‘ pro.’ to
take the money—say, £5OO or £1000.”
At last meeting of the N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion, it was decided, with a view to making preparations
for the next intercolonial race, that the clubs should be
asked to co-operate in forming a practice crew every
Saturday of probable candidates for a seat in the repre-
sentative boat, and that the services of an efficient
coach should be secured. The selection of next year’s
crew will take place some months before the race, and
will not be left to the last three or four weeks as hereto-
fore. Thus we profit by defeat. If the committee of
the S.E.C. can now be persuaded to shake off their in-
difference, and give some encouragement to outrigger
rowing, it is quite possible we may win the next race.
At the recent glove tourney at St. James' Hall*
London, a Mr. Kent, after shying his ‘ castor ' into the
ring in true professional style, was disgracefully
thrashed A day or two afterwards he called at the
office of Bell’s Life to explain :—“ lam fifty years of
age next birthday, have no grey hairs, have not lost a
tooth, and I take medicine three times a day I stand
6ft li in, and never took a lesson in boxing in my life
until Wednesday, 6th April, 1881. Then had four les-
sons from Donnelly and five days train. My opponent had
had six weeks’ training. When putting down my name,
I thought the boxing would take place in June.’ He
has since forwarded a challenge to Bell’s Life, in
which he states that he is willing ta box any gentleman
living, his height, weight, and age, for a cup value £5O
or £lOO.
At Lambeth Baths Gymnasium, recently. Herr
Holtum, after manipulating 201 b., 301 b„ and 601 b.
cannon balls in an easy, graceful fashion, caught a shot,
weighing 151 b., fired from a cannon at distances of 12ft.
and 50ft. Two very powerful carthorses were then
brought into the enclosure, and against these the ex-
hibitor pulled, lying on his stomach on a staging. With
a reward of £25 offered should the horses move the
man, their owner, Mr. Smith, of Camberwell, en-
couraged them in every way. They put forth great
strength, but were unable to shift the biped, and had to
retire, as did also another pair which followed, Holtum
in this instance standing with a horse fastened to either
hand. He afterwards held his own in a “ tug of war "
against a very powerful antagonist, Holtum holding
the rope with his teeth, but the rival puller using both
hands, and palling as best he could.
SPOUTING GLEANINGS.
White, of Mercury Bay, and Hearu, of
Wellington, have been definitely matched to scull for
£lOO In Dunedin (N.Z.) a totalizator is kept going
on almost every conceivable object of speculation,
including municipal elections, rowing matches at home,
and horse races in all parts of the world A jockey
named Keith won a treble at the Wanganui (N.Z.)
Steeplechase meeting, on 24th May. He received a big
ovation on weighing in the third time A wrestling
match took place at Timaru (N.Z.), between W. J.
McLaren and J. Reed, both of that town. After a close
contest, it resulted in favour of McLaren, who man-
aged to throw his opponent four times out of seven
Another pack of harriers (12) has been imported
to Christchurch, New Zealand, from London
Cock-fighting is popular at Gunnedah On Monday,
20th instant, John Asker and William Selby run one
mile for £lO aside, at Melbourne. Selby’s backers say
he can do the distance in 4.26 G. M. Mehan, Black.
heath Harriers, 35sec. start, achieved a best-on-record
by running 7 miles in the net time of 37 min. 38 4-5 sec.
at the Spring meeting of the London Athletic Olub, at
Stamford Bridge, London, on 2nd April The fast
and flying Helmet was so severely injured by his fall in
the last Eandwick steeplechase that it is a pity he
should so soon have been taken to fulfil a twofold en-
gagement at Adelaide. He has returned to Melbourne
a cripple, and his return is only on the ontside chance
of rest and veterinary treatment fitting him for an
occasional day with the hounds Mr. E. C. Cousins
gives a 15 guinea cup to be shot for at Molong shortly.
Entrance is free Mr. Donald S. Wallace, of Victoria,
has purchased the Hon. J. P. Bell's ch c Waterloo, by
Epigram—Wheatsheaf, for 1000 guineas T. Hull, of
Casino, and E. Byers, of Tatham, race on Jane 20 at
the latter place for £25 aside Edward Brennan and
James Warton “go as they please” for 43 hours at the
Oddfellows’ Hall, Grenfell, in the last week of this
month. £5O a-side The Wallsend Jockey Club is
thinking about purchasing the present local racecourse,
together with the grand stand and all fixtures
A bowling club, with an influential list of members, has
been started at Newcastle with rules similar to those of
the Parramatta club The Newcastle Bowling Club
opened on Thursday with a match at the Crystal Palace
Gardens, Waratah Mr. Walter Bradley received by
train lost week from the Mayor of Ballarat a consign-
meat of three dozen English perch. They arrived in
good health, and are to be placed in one of the rivers of
the colony At Goulburn, in a 150 yards’race <or a
small wager, M‘Far lane beat Sevier by four yards In
a mile match for £5O a-side, at Newcastle, between
Baglee and Pardy, the latter won easily by 50 yards.
Another match is on the tapis A match is ou the
cards between E Haycock and H, Solomon At Maru-
lan races, Mr. T. Ferguson’s Tiger won the trottiug-
race, distance three miles. His rider (Mr. Ferguson)
stands 6 feet 4 inches, and weighs 17st 91bs In the
Newcastle rifle competition. Private Eiley won the gold
watch and chain presented by Mr. Chapman the ex-
mayor The race for Commodore Hyam’s trophy for
22 feet boats was contested by the Rosetta, Syren and
Buttercup, and was finished in the order mentioned.
The Buttercup was 7$ minutes behind the Rosetta, but
took the prize, having a handicap of 8 min In the
return match, 150 yards, between White and M'Laugh-
liu run ou Mohday at Moore Park,White started favorite
although his opponent was in fine form. The race was
a good one for 100 yards, when White went ahead and
kept the lead to the finish, winning by a couple of feet.
Several more matches are to come off among members
of the Clifton C.C.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A newspaper, The Banner, has been started
at Tingha, by Mr. George Pinchin Photos, of
Frederick Seymour, alias Smith, and James Grant, alias
Harnett, who recently committed several highway
robberies near Edinburgh, have been identified as those
of two New Zealand desperadoes. Seymour shot him-
self dead when about to be arrested W. W. Char-
ters, the absconding secretary of the Sydenham (N.Z.)
building society, embezzled £2500, of which £l2OO will
be recovered. It is proposed to wind up the society
Deposit receipts representing £l2OO in the name of
Thomas Burke, have been found on a stone wall at
Little Kiver, near Geelong, by a boy named Phipps.
The bag which contained them is thought to
have been brought down by floods. No one
named Burke is known at Little Eiver
A telephonic exchange is about to be established at
Auckland N.Z The Chinese question is being dis-
cussed at Auckland, on account of a threatened invasion.
A Chinese party at Corvoy's Gully, Otago, N.Z., un-
earthed 400 ozs. gold, under where a bouse had formerly
stood. The ground had .ensold to them for £4O
A large quantity of rosewood, worth in England £l5 p r
ton in the log, grows at Maryborough, Q., and is being
used for firewood The first number of the Queens-
land Law Journal has appeared Auckland, N.Z., is
to have a “ Coffee Palace.** The N.Z. Government
have sent to ’Frisco for a consignment of silk-worm’s
ejfgs, and to Sydney for 500 white mulberry trees two
years old No news has been received as to the
whereabouts of Mr. John Boyd, of Cooyal, who disap-
peared mysteriously the other day At Coonamble,
Thomas Wrigley, a run-holder, has been committed
On a charge of stealing five hundred sheep
The other day, at Gympie, the manager of No. 7 monk-
land said to Sir Arthur Kennedy, “Gympie is only
an infant, Mr. Governor." The deposit of bis.
muth ora recently, discovered in the Far North
contains 73 per cent, of metal, and is worth *450
per ton From Brisbane to Gympie is only 120
miles, yet sometimes the Brisbane papers do not
reach Gympie until six days after publication
Bohan, alias Souter, executed the other day at Beech-
worth, was one of the most unprepossessing men who
ever received a sentence. He was 6ft. high, and so
powerful that special handcuffs had to be procured for
him...... Mr. Williams, a selector on the Endeavour, has
brought into Cooktowu six native spears with which
his men and cattle were attacked. The weapons
are 10ft. long, artistically barbed with telegraph wire,
and smeared, one with blood, and the rest with the
extract of some indeginous plant A company has
been formed at the instance of Mr. E. Adam, of
Grafton, to work some of the abandoned Solferino reefs.
The tender of the Phoenix Co., Ballarat, at £31,470,
has been accepted for the construction of ten locomo-
tives and tenders A man who had been locked up for
drunkenness at Bathurst, escaped by withdrawing a
screw from the lock. No blame appears to be attached
to the gaoler 1109 visitors at the Museum on Sunday
afternoon. Attendance still increasing The French
man-of-war Finisterre left Melbourne on June 11 A
Cardwell butcher, named Starkey, has been drowned
while trying to cross the Herbert James D. Collett,
after a drinking bout at Launceston, cut his throat, and
was found dead in bed A French sailor has been
committed at Newcastle for the perpetration of a hor-
rible and unnatural offence Carrying home the loot!
Last steamer took from Cooktowu 43 Chinese
passengers, 1781 ounces of gold, and 4 cases of human
remains, for Hongkong Messrs. Whitehead and Co.,
of Lake's Creek, hand over their fine factory to the
Central Queensland Meat-Preserving Co. on Ist July
A lamp with a Sugg burner has been lighted on the
Eastern Hill, Melbourne; 24 old lamps have been dis-
pensed with in consequence Peter Smith, master of
the ketch Venus, trading between Sydney and Brisbane
Water, fell from the wharf at Darling Harbour, and was
drowned. He had been drinking The man who
robbed the Qoondiwindi coach a month back has been
arrested for a subsequent act of horse-stealing
The Victorian Postmaster-General has ordered ail
telegrams of mining accidents to be sent free of charge
Mr. H. Brade has declined an offer of £5500 for his
third share in the Ida p.c., Maytown, Palmer At
Qamboola station, Palmerville, N.Q., Mr. Palmer,
whilst asleep in his hammock, was attacked With a
tomahawk by a Malay youth, who out him severely, and
almost blinded him with blood before he could reach
his revolver. On finding that he would have to fight,
the Malay made off. Mr. Palmer, though weak, is
recovering.
Messrs. Batt, Eodd, and Purves have just
issued their Property Circular for June. It contains a
list of houses and lands for sale and to let. The figures
are stated in every case, and the circular is consequently
of great value to investors.
.£B5O. —A gentleman, wishing to settle in
Hobart, can hear of a business there, paying over £5OO
a year. Previous experience not imperative. Price,
£B5O cash. Address, C. M., care of The Tasmanian
General Advertising Co., Hobart.—Advt,
A mechanical genius of Lafayette, Indiana, re-
cently rigged up a guillotine, the knife being held in
position by a string. He fixed his head in the groove,
set a candle so that its flame would gradually burn the
string, then chloroformed himself and was beheaded
when asleep.
Artificial amber can now be made so perfectly
as to defy detection except at the hands of au expert
The fictitious article has even the electric qualities of
real amber. True amber is attacked but slightly by
ether or alcohol, whereas the other loses its profile by
contact with these liquids. There are, therefore, many
people in Sydney who will find it advantageous to use
real amber mouthpieces.
Dr. B. W. Richardson, F E.S., the eminent
health lecturer, draws attention to the evils arising
from the employment by builders of sea-sand contain-
ing salt, and of wood that has been saturated with sea-
water. This note of warning hasn’t, of course, any
reference to contractors in these colonies. “ A jury of
four ” don’t catch us “at it again.” Experientia ‘‘does
it,” as they say in the Klassiks.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. Gladstone defines a Radical as a man in
earnest.
There is a split in the Victorian Opposition.
The heads of the contending parties are Messrs. Murray
Smith and Francis.
The Victorian Legislative Councillors declare
that, owing to the Laud Tax, all country lands have
been reduced in value 50 per cent.
The Ballarat Star says that the notorious
C. E. Jones, ex-M.L.A, and lately of Chicago, thinks
of returning to Victoria and re-entering political life.
Mr. Longmore complained the other day in the
Victorian Assembly, that the Upper House was so
“stagnant” that “no one ever heard of any row in
it!"
In the Reform Bill debate in the Victorian As-
sembly, Mr. Munro said that large possessions tend to
make a man incapable of representing the community.
Score one to Munro.
The Earl of Derby suggests that in Parliament
time might be saved by abandoning the system of Par-
liamentary questioning and issuing a sort of nightly
correspondence sheet.
Professor Newman almost regrets the govern-
ment of Lord Be aeons held; for at least, under Tory
rule, “Mr. Bright and many much more energetic
Liberals would not be dumb dogs which daren’t bark ”
The Russian Nihilist manifesto recently for-
warded to the new Czar contained the following
sentence:— “You have lost at our hands a father, it is
true; but we, at those of your lost father, mother,
sisters, brothers, and friends.”
Perhaps the new Czar really has a chance of
smashing up the Nihilist organisation which killed his
father; especially if, as some people believe, he was
himself one of the heads of the. Secret Council of
Revolutionists, and knows the men and the ropes.
Quite a little sensation was caused in Vic-
torian political circles by the peculiar circumstance
having got wind that Sir Samuel Wilson’s motion as to
the Reform question was in the handwriting of a no le?a
distinguished personage than the Marquis of Norman by i
Since denied, however.
The Timaru Herald remarks:—“A perfect
public man, if there could be snch a thing, would be a
combination of Mr. Hall’s honesty, industry, and
practical ability, with Sir George Grey’s eloquence,
intrepidity, and irrepressible pertinacity. The Timaru
Herald can’t have heard of our Sir 'Enery then.
J. Maher, president of the local branch of the
Irish Land League at Invercargill, N.Z., has received a
letter from Mr. Parnell, thanking him for his efforts on
behalf of the cause which he is glad is so well under-
stood in New Zealand. For better protection, he says,
the financial head-quarters of the league has been
removed to Paris.
Talmage recently declared: “I am neither
Monarchist nor Communist, but if it be Communism
to hate the theory that a comparative few have a right
to gather up the resources of the world and crowd
others off into squalor and wretchedness, giving them
no chance for this world or the next, then I am a Com-
munist." Right you are, Talmage.
Public banquets, picnics, addresses, foundation-
stones, &c., ore to be the order of the day on the oc-
casion of the Ministerial visit to the Clarence, and it
has been arranged by the Graftonites that the distin-
tourists shall say on leaving that the Clarence
is the finest place, and that the people are the finest
people, in the whole world. Airong the hosts of the
Ministry will be numbered the Ramornie Meat Com-
pany, who will provide a luncheon exclusively of their
own preserved meats. However, much disappointment
is felt locally at the briefness of the stay which the
members of the Ministry intend making.
The “ silent and sedate ” member for the Rich-
mond, Mr. Fancett, heads the Assembly attendance lit t
for last session with 72 divisions. Mr, Fancett is
evidently “a beggar to think.” Messrs. Baker and
Hoskins come next with 70 divisions each. Mr. Snttor,
67; Mr. Watson, 65; Mr. Lackey, 65; Mr. Wisdom, 60 •
Sir Henry Parkes, 58. Messrs. S. Burdekin, Garrett,
J. Davies, and J. F. Burns, are the only other members
who reach the sixties. Those whose names appear
seldomest in the division lists are Mr, W. Forster (who
did not arrive in the colony till near the close or the
session). 10; Mr. T. R. Smith, 10; Mr. C. E. Pilcher, 11;
Sir P. A. Jennings, 11; Mr. J. Dillon, 12 ; Mr. C. J.
Byrnes, 13; and Mr. D. Buchanan, 16. The name of
the senior member for East Sydney, Mr. G. H. Reid,
appears 35 times ; Mr. S. C. Brown voted in 30 divisions •
Mr. E. Combes, 36; Mr. J. S. Farnell, 47; Mr. M. Fitz-
patrick, 26; Mr. W. J. Foster, 44; Mr. G. A. Lloyd. 4ff;
Mr. A. Stuart, 35; and Mr. Sutherland, 18.
Tyrannicide.
Many Australian journals have, in regard to the
Nihilist trials, apparently taken up the old belief of
divinity in kingship. The Contemporary Eevibw, vol.
35, p. 419—after remarking in effect that tyrannicide is
the natural outcome of men, driven to despair by blood-
stained cruelty, doing battle against thrice-armed
despotism, points out that the Bible affords many such
instances, and that the Greek Republics possesed laws,
or at least traditions, according to which any citizen
that slew a usurper was regarded as pre-eminently
virtuous, and rewarded with the garland of civic glory.
Not to speak of Cicero, Seneca, or Plutarch, quite a.*
host of modem Italian, German, French, and English
philosophers, poets, and writers have upheld the right
of tyrannicide. The honour done to William Tell by the
Swiss, Garibaldi, in his own way, did to the memory of
Ageslao Milano after the overthrow of the Neapolitan.
Bourbon. Of German poets that have distinctly upheld
the right of tyrannicide, Herder, Lossing, Schiller.
Richter, and Platen need only be mentioned; of French
legists, thinkers, and poets, Montesquieu, Vattel, Rous-
seau, and Victor Hugo; of English statesmen, writers,
and poets, Milton, Algernon Sydney, Sidmouth, Cob-
bett, Byron, Walter Savage Landor, and Benjamin
Disraeli in his younger days, when he sang in honour
of Brutus and Tell
“ Blessed be the hand that dares to wield
The regicidal steel that shall redeem
A nation’s suffering with a tyrant’s blood.”
And says Milton;
“ There can he slain
No sacrifice to God more acceptable
Than an unjust and wicked king.”


Tailors, Drapers
T
HOMPSON AN
DENISON HOD
358, 360, 362, George-
OPENING NEW G
for
WINTEE SEAS(
EVEET DAT DUEING XI
FIB ST GENEEAL £
. of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DEESS:
FOE THE WINTEE £
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO
FRENCH CASHMERE GAME
DOVER HOMESPUN INDRI
ELASTIC BIEGE AN GO
KASGHER CASHMERE JER-vf
STOCKINGETTE VALP.
AND A LARGE ASSORTME
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—
cases of very
ERY, somethi
handsome, dir<
houses in Lend
THOMPSON AND GILES.
SILK DEPAE
SILK, Rich Vi
to 24 inch wide,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
dinary value.
BLACK SATIN
BROCADES,
SILKS, in a vai
BLaCK SATIN
inches wide, 3;
6s lid, 7s 6d.
worn, and str
for wear, and fl
BLACK VELVE
NAUCUNIUM.g
every yard stai
BLACK SATINi
inches and 24
3s lid. 4s 6d,
are light and s<
under usual
SILK VELVE
every shade of
and Brocaded
Floral Designs
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPAE 1 ]
OPENED a
MENT of al
LACES in ev<
imitation, Emb
Ruffling, Modi
Cuffs, Collate
L.ice Ties in
Spanish Lace 1
width.
THOMPSON AND - GILES.
SHEETINGS w
FROM DRES£
be no decepti
washed. Lad
Sheetings goo<
makes. Prices
to Is lid; 80-i
inch, is 6d to 2
to 3s. Americ
& Horrooks’ C.
QUILTS, fron
prices. Coloi
QUILTS, 2* 1c
COVERS at all
the yard, 27 an
THOMPSON AND GILES.
TABLE LINEN
DEPARTMEN
been our stndj
this class of
character. By
year after yeai
of FIRST-CLA
are now showi
ment of of DA
NAPKINS, boi
Damask. Thei
every size, and
for cheapness
colony. We i
MASK clot:
425; 5-8 NAPE
3-4 NAPKINf
29s 6d; DA
round or squar
DAMASK, 5-8
BLEACHED
from Is 9d to 1
SHEETINGS,
PILLOW LIN
wide ; WHI
TOWELS, froi
cording to sizi
ISH TOWELS
tpa r>r.r»’rira
Tailors, Draper
161
KING STREE
(Near Tramway
MADAME WEIG
PAPEE PATTERNS of DRESSE
cut in different sizes for Ladu
nished with illustrations and c
up. Sold at prices ranging fro
styles monthly in WEIGEL
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by
annum, post free Catalog!:
Patterns sent to any part of th
of price and measure. Postage
ADDRESS:
MADAME WE!
161 KING STEE
SYDNEY.
H
AYE YOU
TO
R. MORPH
233 Pitt Str
Easiness Annoanc
8
UKGAL.J
HORTER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEi
and
MACQUAEIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary
LEGAL.-Mr. T. M. 1
SOLICITOR, has co)
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
Allen
(Just from Euroj
PEOFESSOE OF DAN(
Evening Adult classes, Mondays i
Adult Beginner’s classes, Saturday
classes, Thursdays 4.15 p.m.; Satu
wishing private tuition in Boston a
and latest fashionable Dancing, a
till 12 noon, 344 Castlereagh-street,
street. Residence, 161 LIVEEPOL
QHEAPEST AND
BES
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORA 1 !
HAY STREET, HAYA
TEA, Is per 11
Other articles equally che
Go d packed and delivered free
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LI
WITH.
P
lANOS. AMERICAN 01
PIANOS. AMERICAN OEG
J. MASSEY and
beg to inform their friends and th
they have opened those
No. 10 PARK STR
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN 01
TXT A TJTft TT/- \ FTCJ I?
Tailors, Drape:
T™
BEST an I LA
of
WOOLLEN
In the COLOI
<1
S§
O/M
o*
03
FASHIONABLE and First-!
to order at
J. TURNER EOBINSO
Market Cloth 1
482 (LATE 484) GEORG
Opposite the Fruit
Established II
REDUCED PRI
TROUSERS TO URDEB
TROUSERS and VEST,
SUITS TO MEASURE,
all GOODS WELL MADE, \
and PERFECT FIT Gl
CUT PAI
MADAME DEM
Perfect Fitti:
Newest styles every mail from
Full directions and illustrations
MADAME DEFORESTS pul
fashions. 500 Plates, la.; What
Magazine, la. 6d.; Catalogues, gi
MISS LOUISA
87 King Street, Sydney (two d
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-s
mHEM I S S E
JL. (Late with Messrs. Davi
52. MARGARET S
WTNYARD SC
Three Doors from Mr. J. S
Have much pleasure in announci
to open Mantles Millinery, and a
Ladies for the Autumn Season,
respectfully solicited.
52, MARGARET STREET, W
J£LISE’S PAPER Cl
All communications to b
“ ELISE."
No. 12 PARK STREET
Six doors from Geoi
Orders for Patterns cannot bi
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patte
style, cut, and finish, being model!
Fashions, and are always sent
receipt of stamps or money order
66 XT IS A WELL-KNCT
A for Household or Fan
Hordern’s” Old-Established am
porium on the Brickfield H ' b
tor Value, Variety, or Extent of
NEW and BEAUTIFUL G(
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES
E O. L. LI
HIGH-CLASS CASE
3 BRIDGE STREET
LATE
CUTTER TO E. M
Begs to inform his friends and 1
opened the above premises
gentlemen who wish to have
manship, Ac., at a low price 1
Gentlemen requiring this with V
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptl
N.B.—TWO DOORS FROM i
R.C. HA(
FASHIONAI
TAILORING ESTA
127 KING STB
Cannot Cannot
be be
Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, an
Business Announi
I HAVE this day commenc
Stock and Share Broker, an
undertake any commissions eithe
chase of shares that may be entrui
References :
Hon. S. D. Gordon,
Hon. E. Flood, M.L,
Hon. L. W. Levy, M
Richard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-sti
AVI D M
14, Hunter-street, S
SADDLER AND HARNI
By special appoint]
To his Royal Highness the Duk
Excellency the Eight Hon. t
His Excellency Sir Hercules ]
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.G.
Best Coorsing Material of Newe
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentle:
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 187(
ASTERN SPECIALITY
CABLES AND Al
strongly recommend their
2s. TEA,
which wi’l be found equal to an;
much higher pri
GEORGE S
HATMAEKEI
724
AG. c h u r c
• 147 rosi STE
Opposite the Marl
-
IMPORTER AND MANUFj
Coffee, Peppers, Spi
CLEVELAND MILLS, SU!
CHEAPEST HOUSE I
for Liverpool and Black Hor
Choicest Sage and Majoram on 1
680,000 AMERICAN SB
Just arrived, all s
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLA
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sa:
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per 11
Canterbury.
NOWLAJ
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NAEE.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY,
SATURDAY for WEE WAA,
GETT, MILLIE, and MOREE
ATTXTXTPTI A IT rPTTrOTU V ~


Hotels, fro.
OLD EXHIBITION HOTEL.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION POE BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, Ac.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands ; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HTLLIEE, Proprietor.
MA. GO 0 D .
• PARK HOTEL, PARRAMATTA,
(immediately opposite the domaist gates).
Bottled Ales and Porter, Wines and Spirits, of the
best brands, at the lowest possible prices. Picnic
parties therefore wonld do well not to burden them-
selves by bringing the same.
W. EGBE RTS,
l/«
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS.
II It 1 F £ R TREE GIN.
'This celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
»1 storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will i rove it superior to the common weak noma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
CS
re
3;
&
&
Cj
0
9
i
V
3.
s
Wholesale Agent—o HAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT ten t the clearness or condition alone of Bull (Do
Ale that preserves this brand first in public « ti
matioa. Common bitter crude beers are made very ill e,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac*
ter, the fulness on the pa'ate, and the great keepii g
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are then .
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, J. E. CATTELL and
ro„ Sole Agents,
mar
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
(a selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and C0.,-Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J R. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Hotels, fee.
THE COMPAGNONI PALACE
CAFE AND CATERING COMPAN Y, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Harrietts, late cWf de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
. Manager,
June 30,1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAEE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTE IS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will And
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
NOW OPEN, ’
THE
(Jity (Jateeing (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cafe, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls,Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(j HAS. E. gMI T H,
MANAGER.
R
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OP ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockbum’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, .Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, is one of the best-
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEEEAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Eotal.
Ic
EB
MU
m
m
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS
HENNESSY’S HOTEL,
RUTHVEN-BTREET, TOOWOOMBA.
The above is, without exception, the LA GEST and
MOST COMMODIOUS HOTEL in the whole of the
Darling Downs and Western Districts.
A large and well-constructed Hotel has been a great
want in' Toowoomba, and that want is now supplied in
HENNESSY’S HOTEL.
The Coffee and Dining Rooms are large and roomy,
and are well furnished. There are over 20 single bed-
rooms, besides family apartments. All the bed-rooms
are furnished with full bed-room suites. Private
apartments, with sitting rooms, for families.
To commercial gentlemen Hennessy’s Hotel offers
unusual advantages. Situated in the leading street of
the town, it is in the centre of all the banks and busi*
ness places, and only a short distance from the newly,
erected Public Buildings. A large SAMPLE ROOM,
specially for Commercial gentlemen, has been erected.
A large and well-ventilated BILLIARD ROOM,
fitted with a new billiard table of the latest design.
The Cuisine Department will be under the manage-
ment of a first-class cook.
The best best brands of Wines, Ales, and Spirits.
No effort or expense has been spared to make
Hennessy’s Hotel one of the best in Queensland.
The Bulletin and other Sydney and Melbourne
papers kept on the file.
To Racing men Heunessy’s Hotel commends itself
There are large, roomy stables and loose boxes.
Buggies and horses always on hire. A buggy will
meet 11 trans.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
n
the PERFECTION
OF
UNRIVALLED for
SOLE PROPRIETORS
GREENLEES^
31.C0M tIERCIALSTRKT. LONDON!
OISTILLERIES.ARGYLESHIRE
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle shonld be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported' into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage shonld compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
ROSS AND CLINCH.
(Late Collins and Roach),
CRATED WATER
AND
CORDIAL MANUFACTURERS.
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
First Prize, International Exhibition, Sydney,
for Soda Water.
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lemonade, Ginger Ale,
Ginger Beer, Ac.
CORDIALS OP ALL KINDS.
The Trade supplied with promptness and dispatch.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:—
ROSS AND CLINCH,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
♦
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
ALBURY WINES.
PORT MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
IALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention t® his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard :
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris „ 1864
Vienna 1873
Philadelphia ~ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE, RED.
Reisling Auearot I Shiraz Hermitag’
Verdeiiho Brown Muscat Ourbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
Hotels, &c.
H
ÜBEKT BUTCHER &
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
CO..
Couktrt Oetvrrs Receive Prompt Attentioh.
IN HOGSHEADS, QUARTER CASKS,
AKD CASE.
I
Up!
WHISKY
“flStli
AG E N T—G E oiIGE LLOYD,
BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
W Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
WINE GROWER AND MERCHANT,
Splendid DINNER WINES, from 12s. to 255. per doz.
DESSERT WINES, 18s. and 21s, per doz.
FINE OLD WINES, suitable for Ladies and Invalids
from 21s. to 425. per doz.
OFFICE AND CELLARS : 40 Hunter-street. Sydney
Country Orders receive prompt attentioh.
rjl R Y H. HOCKINGS & CO.’S
PURE
OLD AUSTRALIAN WINES.
PITT STREET. OPPOSITE CITY BANK
THE
TAEPING MIXTURE.
This celebrated TEA is composed of pure
UNCOLOURED TEAS,
and is made upinto lib and half lb packets, and packed
in the China Tea Gardens, and can be procured at the
following places:—
Wm. Hughes, William-streat, Woolloomooloo
F. M’Donald, William-street, Woolloomooloo
J. F. Lender, William-street, Woolloomooloo
Chapman Bros., William-street, Woolloomooloo
A. M'Donald, Upper William-street
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Francis-streets
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Riley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahra
1 E. Clarke and C,, Oxford and Botany-streets
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-street
S. Talty, 49 Oxford- street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-road
J. Loutit, Old South Head-road
R. J. Bauman, Old South Head-road
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 541 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., comer of Crown and Devonshire-
streets
R. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
T. E. Geddes, 823 George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 George-street
J. Dire, junr., 99 George-street
R. Dunne, comer of Ultimo and Bay-streets, Glebe
J. Davis, Glebe-road ,
Deacon and Sons, North Shore
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, North Snore .
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St. Leonards
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Balmain
. D. M’Kinlny, Beatie-street, Balmain
W. H, Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Waterloo
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Botany-streets, Waterloo
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabetb-street, Waterloo
J. M'Donald, 6 Botany-road Waterloo
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. G. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Kechnie, senior, Newtown
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Gninery, Miller’s Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J Elliott, 192 Princess-street, Church Hill
G. Jenkins and Co., Manly
Geo. Evans, Manly
D. Anderson, Belmore-street
B. Devlr, Redfem
S. J. Breathour, Waverley
J. Clarke, 152 Queen-street, Woollahra
Benson Bros., Victoria-street
James Bryce, Abercrombie-street
R. Gray Cooper-street, Waterloo
G. and A. Murray, Macdonaldtown
D. L. Frazer, Newtown.
S.
P R E D D E Y.
G. AND _
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Ebskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, Ac., at lowest rates.


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
It is said that George Coppin contemplates a
professional visit to N.Z. next summer Dion Bouci-
cault’s new piece is to be produced first in New York.
Dion says that the present condition of London society
would not permit of the unbiassed reception of an Irish
play An elegant little volume, memorial, personal,
and critical, of Adelaide Neilson has been issued in
London Beethoven is to have a statue in Central
Park, New York Theatrical managers in America
who admit boys and girls unaccompanied by parents or
guardians are liable to fine or imprisonment: £2O
or 9 months The Confederate Diorama, at latest
dates, in the Wairarapa district, NZ During 1880
“ Betsy ” and “ Jilted ” were produced at the Criterion
277 times, “The Pirates of Penzance” at the Opera
Comique 271 times, “ Tambour Major ” at the Al-
hambra 210 times, and “ The Merchant of Venice ’’ at
the Lyceum 194 times Mr. George Augustus Sala
gave a lecture recently at Chickering Hall, New York,
on “the Shows I have seen.” Mr. C. B. Foster has
been appointed conductor pro. tem. of the Civil Service
Musical Society, vice Giorza ; Mr. T. P. Banks, to be
acting accompanist. The condnctorship is to be kept
vacant until Mots. Leon Caron has finished his engage-
ment with the Montague-Turner Troupe, when he will
be appointed. He intends to settle in Sydney, and will
be a valnable acquisition to musical circles Mr. and
(“Happy Honrs”) Mrs. Hart were performing in Canter-
bury (N.Z.) when last heard of Mr. H. F. Towle is
arranging a company of amateurs to perform “ Les
Cloches de Corneville ” at the Theatre Royal, Christ-
church, N.Z. Good Heavings! What a treat theatre-
goers will have The Lydia Howarde Company have
been playing at Timaru, N.Z Mr. Webster, the
illusionist (announced from Melbourne), has been per-
forming in the Auckland provinces Phil Kirby is now
business agent for John E. Caen’s comedy company
Victoria Loftus has a new Blonde Show in America
“Our Boys" was lately mutilated by a company of
amateurs at the Thames Goldfields, N.Z. The local
papers gave the usual greasy notices, and compared the
aspiring young man who appeared as the Butterman to
Lingard. Ahem! George Bell, the female imper-
sonator, has joined the Burford-Clinton combination,
who have closed at Grafton and are now about touring
in New England The Hewitt and Ogden (“Zip")
company played 24 nights at Charters Towers before
benefiting. They were to go from Townsville to Cook-
town and after playing a week at the latter place to
proceed to India The Holloway-Qeorgina Smithson-
Benallah company have been playing at Townsville
to moderate business Mr. H. Benson is now presi-
dent, Mr. F. Stokes hon. treasurer, and Mr. Morris
Menser, hon. sec. of the Mercantile Amateur Dramatic
Society Melbourne has the advance notes of a sen-
sational man from San Francisco, who is coming by the
mail after next. In one of his pieces he goes through
the performnne e of hanging “as natural,” to use a
Hibernicism, “as life.” Mr. John Victor, baritone
and pianist, who is a native of Ballarat and has just re-
turned from Italy, where he has been studying under
Lamperto, is about to give concerts in the western dis-
tricts of Victoria.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Sydney people have smiled on Miss Annis
Montague since her advent amongst us, and the more
the Sydney public have smiled on Miss Montague, the
more she has smiled upon the Sydney public. Well, it
is a pleasant sensation to be beamed upon by lovely
woman,but it is quite far more than delicious to be beamed
upon and sung to at the same time. Indeed, we know
nothing more pleasant than this—excepting, perhaps,
going through a long tunnel in a compartment with the
gyurl you adore. Consequently, the Sydney public has
been “ fetched ”to the utmost extent. And it must be
remembered that we ore not so easily pleased (especially
in opera) as we used to be. The play-going public is
getting blastf. Formerly, the merest tyro had only to
tickle the show-frequenting portion of the community
with a olothes-prop to make it laugh; now, however,
the smile won’t come without a peacock’s feather and a
talented tickler. The schoolmaster is abroad, and
civilization marches on with giant strides. Bouci-
caulted rubbish, with clap-trap effects, is a howling
frost: English opera, with Annis Montague for an expo-
nent, carries all before it. This is as it should be.
Sydney is getting refined, if not (esthetic. If things go
on like this it will soon be useless to advertise either a
public picnic or a dogfight.
• * •
Miss Montague’s benefit was, as may well be
imagined, a very great affair, indeed. On the morning
of the day on which it took place not a single dress suit
was to be hired in Sydney for love or lucre, and when
the theatre was opened, it was generally conceded that
there had not been such an extensive exhibition of
boiled linen since the fire at the steam laundry in
Chicago. The orchestra looked lovely. Black coats
were de rig nor with the musicians, and the genial con-
ductor mounted such an enormous camellia and leaves
that, viewed from a distance, he was the positive pre-
sentment of a Cupid enshrined in a sylvan bower. The
lessees and staff were equally gorgeous. Cox, especially,
wa the admiration of everyone. Clad in immaeulate
sable rig, he paced the lobby, joy gleaming in every line
of his intellectual countenance, dignity stamped upon
every crease in his doeskin “banger." As] for
“ Johnny ” —to gaze upon him was as to contemplate a
brilliant Oriental pageant. Diamonds, lavender tie,
white waistcoat—the gorgeous picture will live in our
memories a lifetime. Long before the first notes of the
overture were heard, the theatre (crowded in every
part) was filled with the odour of flowers. All the ladies
had bouquets, and all (or nearly all) the gentlemen had
“ button-holes," and in the stage box on the prompt side
was gathered a great assemblage of beauty.
* * *
The fair beneficiare and her husband were in
splendid voice, and the opening portion of the pro-
gramme —the third act of the “ Bohemian Girl"—was
given with great spirit. Thadeus never sang more
melodiously, Devilshoof was never more grotesquely
diverting, and Arline never warbled her tones more en-
chantingly. The chorus was in great force; and,
although we noticed with grief the absence of “ Barto,"
yet the 11 veteran” led his subordinate warriors with
such immense effect, that the fact of the chorus-
master's absence did not materially mar the pleasing
unanimity of the vocal responses. We were glad to
observe that the young person who “bosses” the chorus
ladies has toned herself down, and acting on our
advice no more allows her dexter optic to rove about
the auditorium in search of the military, but confines
her beaming smiles to the fortunate player of the
oboe.
* * ♦
Hardly had the curtain descended upon the
opera than it was immediately rolled up again, and lo 1
and behold! there assembled upon the stage not only
the entire strength of the company, but a galaxy of
masculine beauty in the shape of five prominent citizens.
The appearance of these gentlemen was the signal for
much applause, and the bright shoes and black necktie
of the youngest gentleman of the party were mnch
admired. In the centre of the stage, looking as natural
as if he had grown there, stood the gifted member for
Bnrrowa, his face beaming with sunny smiles, and his
intellectual brow clothed in serenity. Taking in his
hand a flower basket in which was enshrined the costly
gift he was to present, Mr. Slattery, with a hurried
glance at his notes, commenced an oration on the musi-
cal talents of the fair cantatrice that will be remem-
bered when the impassioned utterances of Demosthenes
are forgotten. Then he made the presentation with an
air that positively brought down the house. In it were
embodied the dignified urbanity of the statesman and
the undulating grace of the ancien regime. It was
admirable —nay, it was more than admirable—it was
superb! When the presentation of the jewels had been
made the young gentleman with the black tie and
patents (whose every movement, by the way, had been,
during the ceremony, watched with breathless interest
by about 700 young ladies) nudged Mr. Neill with an
anxious countenance and his elbow. On this Mr. Neill
whispered something to Mr. Slattery, whereupon that
gentleman took up a white satin address and read it to
the smiling beneficiare, while Mr. Turner patted the
bead of Barto’s pretty little “ kid,” and the company
(the gallant form of W. P. Baker towering above them
like a hollyhock above cowslips) shuffled about and
thirsted for the blood of the author. When it was all
over, and Miss Montague had taken possession of as
much of the property as she conld conveniently carry,
that lady replied in a speech in which point and brevity
were very scientifically blended. Then the black-coated
patricians on the stage bobbed at Miss Montague and
the company, and Miss Montague and the company
bobbed at the black-coated patricians, the band struck
a chord, the audience hurrooed, down came the curtain,
and everybody went out to have a drink.
* * *
The last act of “ Faust ” followed, and at the
finish the enthusiasm of the audience culminated in
hearty cheering as Mr. and Mrs. Turner drove off to
their house. There more glory awaited them in the
shape of the German band, who performed a serenade
with much satisfaction to themselves and to the infinite
delight of about three millions of the Sydney public,
who assembled beneath the windows of the College-
street mansion evidently under the impression that a
soldier’s funeral was about to start from there, and
that a hero was going to be “buried in the dead of
night, with his martial cloak around him.” In
the end, the band blew their final blast and the people
shouted their final shout, and the fair beneficiare
and her talented hub. made their final bow; after
which the crowd outside dispersed, and the crowd
inside sat down to the chicken and salad, and the butler
was ordered to open, with all dispatch, the first bottle of
crime de Boosie.
* * •
So ended one of the most enthusiastic benefits
it has been our lot to assist at in Sydney. In the fore-
going account we have tried to be a little jocular, but
we would not have it thought that we wish to make
light of an event which, in doing honour as it did to
the talented artistes, reflects the highest credit upon
that section of the musical public of Sydney which took
part in the demonstration. We are sorry Mr. and Mrs.
Turner are going away, and we are glad they are coming
back. As professionals, their talents are of a very
high order indeed, and they are as distinguished
ornaments to society as they are shining lights in the
world of music.
• * *
The company, we understand, open at the
Theatre Koyal, Brisbane, on the 15th instant, and
return to the Gaiety on the 25th of July. That the
Montaguo-Turner combination will do well in Brisbane
we are confident, the only counter-attraction there being
“ The Pirates of Penzance,” at the Town Hall, by the
Kelly and Leon Company, with Miss Emma Wangen-
heim in the part of Mabel. M. Le Couteur accompanies
Mr. and Mrs. Tomer as secretary.
* * * *
Another “ben.” —a final farewell one this time —
took place last Thursday nigbt at the Royal, on which
occasion Miss Blanche Stammers bade good-bye to a
crowded audience; and the members of the company
presented Mr. Arthur Garner with a claret-jug and a
tea-set. The presentation, Mr. Q. informed the audience,
was—at least, so far as he was concerned—“ quite un-
expected ;” and we believe this statement as emphati-
cally ns we do our Sunday collect. The testimonial
was given, we understand, partly in recognition of Mr.
Garner’s undoubted talents as a manager and partly to
celebrate the brilliant manner in which he interpreted
the trying role of Kyrle Daly in “ The Colleen Bawn,”
which has recently been running, under his auspices, at
the Theatre Royal. Anyhow, we are as glad for Mr,
Garner to receive a claret-jug and tea-set as we would
be to get those articles ourselves, and we wish him and
his very charming young wife many more testimonials
and a good time generally. We believe Mr. Garner has
made much money in Australia, but even if he leaves
us poorer as to the article of bullion he will at least go
away the richer by a claret-jug, a tea-service, and our
good wishes.
• # #
The pieces performed were “ Pygmalion and
Galatea ” and “ Woodcock’s Little Game ” In the first
piece. Miss Stammers gave a touchingly pathetic imper-
sonation of Gilbert’s heroine, and her efforts were
rewarded by a liberal amount of plaudits and a con-
siderable number of bouquets. Mr. Titheradge was
effective as Pygmalion, but Mr. Stewart’s Chrysos lacked
breadth of conception, and was scarcely so felicitous in
bringing out the humour of the part as might have been
expected. Miss Gordon played carefully and intelligently
as Cynisca, and of course Mrs Marion Stammers' Daphne
was excellent. Miss Alma Santon, however, made a
sad bungle of My vine, which was a pity, as she contrived
in some parts to spoil the poetry of the drama. As a
whole, the performance, though inferior to that pre-
viously given by the London Comedy Comedy of the
play, was a success, and it is to be regretted that Miss
Stammers’ indisposition prevented her continuing to
play the part until the conclusion of Mr. Garner’s con-
nection with the theatre. The farce which followed, we
are told, was well done. We never stay for farces our-
selves ; but when we want to enjoy a real good laugh,
we go to see—well, somebody else—in emotional drama.
* * * *
The appearance of Mr. Wybert Reeve as Fosco
in “ The Woman in White ” at the Gaiety on Monday is
an event which is deserving of special notice. It is
deserving of special notice because a more artistic and
realistic impersonation than that of Mr. Reeve of the
wily Count it has rarely been our lot to witness. To
those who have read the novel, Mr. Reeve appears ,so
skilful is his make-up, so studied is his every action,
every gesture, to have walked out of the story upon the
stage. It is a finished performance in every respect,
and is evidently the result of long and laborious study.
That Mr. Reeve achieved a great success is undeniable;
and it is the more to this talented gentleman’s credit to
achieve a triumph when, in some cases, the support
accorded him was of a very indifferent description.
Throughout the play the impersonation of Count Fosco
moved about a triton amongst minnows. In the second
act especially, when the idea is supposed to come *to
him of ringing the changes with the persons of Ann
Catherick and Lady Glyde, he exhibited histrionic
ability of the most remarkabledescription; later, in the
Asylum waiting-room, he held his audience spellbound
by the power and intensity which he infused into his
acting. Altogether, Mr. Reeve proved himself to be a
great actor, and we trust that during his brief stay
amongst us he will be accorded that cordial support
which the Sydney public is never backward in vouch-
safing to performers who, by the sterling merit they
poss ess, are so thoroughly deserving of it.
m m •
Mr. Frank Forbes was very effective as Sir
Percival Glyde, and has evidently, we are pleased to
notice, made great progress in his profession daring the
last few years. Walter Hartright was played by Mr.
W. J. Midas, and was, we are compelled to state, one
of the most eccentric performances it has been our
lot to witness for some time.
• • m.
Mr. Gladstone played Professor Pesca with
exceptional ability, but Messrs. Booth aud Forest (his-
toric names!) did not shine particularly as “ Two
Members of the Secret Brotherhood.” Indeed, they
reminded us of two bailiffs about to levy upon a
“ widder ” woman.
• * *
Miss Marie Wilton played the dual part of Ann
Catherick and Lady Glyde, and exhibited consider-
able intelligence, mingled, however, with a good
many mannerisms, and a strong tendency to over-
acting and exaggerated by-play. We have not the
pleasure of knowing this young lady's real name,
but even were it Gubbins, it would, in our opinion,
be better taste for the artiste to stick to her own
cognomen rather than adopt the nom de thidtre of a
lady a comparison between whose acting and her own
would be immeasurably to the Australian Marie
Wilton’s disadvantage. Miss Annie Mayor was a great
success as Marian Halcome, but drove a horse and cart
through the dramatic unities by not making up plainer:
for it will be remembered that the character as drawn
by Wilkie Collins was that of a plain woman who fas-
cinated the Count by reason of her indomitable force of
character. Miss Mayor looked very charming, however,
and the picture was such a pretty one, that we suppose,
with our usual good nature, we must pardon the young
lady for sacrificing the drama in sacrificing to the
Graces. Her interpretation of the character, on the
whole, was such as to stamp her as an artiste of very
considerable ability, and we look forward with pleasure
to seeing her on Saturday in the more congenial role
she assumes in “ Diplomacy.”
* • *
Miss Kate Arden made a very poor Madame
Fosco, and we recommend her to lose no time, if she
intends assuming the character again, in reading the
novel. She will learn more by a careful perusal of
Marian Harcourt’s idiary than she could acquire in 50
rehearsals. Miss Elise Sydney played Mrs. Catherick
with suitable “intensity,” and Miss Howarth
looked a Sister of Mercy to the life. The piece was
elegantly mounted, and was most enthusiastically re-
ceived by a very large audience.
During the performance a very pleasing incident
occurred. Mr. Turner, the popular tenor, who occupied
with his wife and a large party of other fair ladies a
stage box, had occasion to leave the theatre, and as he
was making his exit became recognised by the audience,
who cheered him lustily. A similar compliment was
paid to Miss Annis Montague on her bright eyes and
“double seam of Orient pearls” being spotted by some
enthusiasts in the circle. Both these tuneful stars ap-
peared to enjoy the performance, and lavishly applauded
Mr. Wybert Reeve at the conclusion of the piece.
The Woman in White" will be played until Saturday
only, therefore we recommend such of our readers as
have not seen the piece to do so without delay.
* * * *
M. Leon Caron, the talented chef d’orchestre,
slipped from the rocks at Tennyson, on Sunday last, and
was nearly drowned. However, he was fortunately
observed by Mr. Beddome, of the Government Printing
Office, who rescued him from his perilous position. M.
Caron since his recovery has written the following
little poem:—
Mr. Sterling White has seceded from the Queen’s
Theatre, and has joined Allison, in Adelaide, whore he
will support Leake at the Theatre Royal. We cannot
but regard the fact of the stage-manager leaving the
Queen’s Theatre at this juncture as rather Keogh-rious.
—“The Pirates of Penzance” follows Leake in Ade-
laide.—Bill Holloway is engaged at the Melbourne
Royal for the run of “ Antony and Cleopatra," which
will be followed by Bland Holt’s “World." We are
given to understand that Bland has imported models of
the scenery, props., and duplicate costumes, in order to
produce it on “ a scale of magnificence never before
attempted in the Antipodes." Well may Bland cry—
“ * The World ’ is mine oyster.
Which I with a good crowd will open.”
* * * *
Forbes is not coming, so there wont be snavelled.
This time, all the “spons.” by the "Very-Much-
Travelled.”
* * * *
We understand that the two Miss Horans have
been engaged by Mr. Sam Howard for the theatre at
Grafton, and that they have proceeded thither to play
in comedy and opera. We shall be glad to receive a
line from the veteran occasionally, as to how the world
wags in the land where Rush is king.
* * * *
The Mastodons, or as they call themselves, the
“Mastadons," after a most successful season at
Newcastle, go on the Bathurst and Govdbum route.
They open at the “ city of the plains” on Monday
night.
* * * *
Mr. F. E. Hisoocks, who has most successfully
catered for the amnsement of the Australian public for
the last ten years, and who returned from England by
the Chimborazo, has engaged some novelties for
Australia. We are not at present allowed to set forth
Mr. Hisoocks’ whole programme, but we may say that
the accomplished Fred. Maccabe, known throughout
the theatrical world as “ Begone, Dull Care," will arrive
in August, and that he will be followed by other artistes
for whose ability we have the double guarantee of their
own widespread reputation and Mr. Hisoocks’ well-
known excellent judgment.
* * * *
nice letter, ornamented with innumerable
flour shes, has reached us from Maryborough (Q.) bear-
ing the illustrious signature of Harry W. Emmett.
Harry tells us that the success of the Seagrave-Oliver
combination is immense, and that hfs benefit at Rock-
hampton was a “ boomer,” £25 of tickets being sold.
The company has no intention of breaking up for
months to come—all engagements having been renewed.
Therefore, Harry and “Little Nell" may be regarded as
Emmettically sealed to Maggie Oliver jusqu 'au mots de
—slowiy over the stones, sweet comps.— Janvier,
m m m
From a bundle of programmes which Mr. Em-
mett has forwarded, we find that “ Checkmate” is
described as “ the latest London comedy” ; that “ Blow
for Blow" is set down for the “ London Comedy Com-
pany’s drama"; that “ Ours" is termed “ Robertson’s
new comedy”; and that evidences of Mr. Emmett’s
ingenuity are discoverable in all the ads. Miss Oliver
is fortunate in having secured such a versatile artist,
and the more so, not only because he comes from a racy
stock, but.that both he and “ Little Nell” always take
with the Harry-stock-racy. Many will Seagrave faults
in this par., and while they grin will cry—That’s The
Bulletin Oliver. Do you take us ? No I Well then
—subscribe.
* * * *
At the Burwood School of Arts, the “ Shakspere
Dramatic Company ” had a flutter on Friday week, and
produced “ Kathleen Mavoumeen ” and “A Blighted
Being ” to an audience of forty. The performance was
(of course) a tremendous success artistically, but un-
fortunately the money triumph was of a rather slender
description—only fourteen shillings being taken at the
door. The “stars” were Mr. D. Kelly (no relation to
the “ hero ”) and Miss Murphy, who played O’Rafferty
and Kathleen respectively in the drama. Nothing
exciting occurred to mar the harmony of the entertain-
ment, and the only casuality we have to record is that,
when slopping home through the mud after the show,
the soubrette of the company lost a “ galosher.”
* * * *
A marriage is on the tapis between—however,
riddle us this, sweet readers :
There is a sweet soubrette.
Who plays so well in farces;
There is a bright po-et
Whom Tennyson surpasses.
From Melbourne cpmes the news,
(How quickly news is carried !)
Th’ invoker of the muse
To her is to be married.
All this, you know, is meet
(No more, or we shall catch it!
"Tis meet a sweet
Should marry a—well, ,
* * * *
Now for a few lively little mems. about those we
know and love. The Holloways have been playing
“ East Lynne ” at Dubbo (June 7th) to more mud than
money ; and Seagrave and Maggie Oliver played “ East
Lynne ” to a good audience on the final night of their
engagement in Rockhampton, the occasion being the
“ben.” of W. H. In dismissing the company, the
Rockhampton Akops is irresistibly droll. It says:
“ Maggie Oliver has not her equal in the colonies in her
line of business. Miss Melrose is a pleasing actress
with a future before her. Mr. Edwin Palmer is
clever, correct, and effective , . . we at once pro-
nounce him to be the best old man on the stage in the
colonies. (Ha-ha!) Miss Marion Saunders seldom disap.
points her audience, and (mark this, and yell I) appears
in character suited to her. Mr. H. W. Emmett has
everything in his favor: a fine person and face, a good
voice, and brains to understand his author; therefore
it is scarcely to be doubted but that he will make his’
mark. We have so often written of the peculiar excel-
lencies of the Seagrave brothers that it is not necessary
to repeat ourselves.” Only this, and nothing more ! J
* * * *
D’Orsay Ogden and “ The Musettes ” have con
eluded their season at Charters Towers, and have
separated. The Mayor and Council gave them a benefit
on the last night (31st May) of their appearance. In
reply to the Mayor’s letter offering the “ roll up,” Mr.
Ogden replied in these delicious terms “ Gentlemen'
—I have great pleasure to acknowledge on behalf of Mr!
Hewett and self the receipt of your most kind note, teul
dering us a complimentary benefit. It is such pleasant
items (sic) that tend to make our artistic life the more
happy in the conviction that our efforts towards excel-
lence are not unappreciated." We understand that,
immediately this epistle was published, an influential
deputation waited upon Mr. Ogden, in order to entreat
him never to leave the Towers, but to stay and impart
instruction, at millions a lesson, in the art of English
composition.
* * •
And talking of Mr. Ogden, that reminds me of a
little anecdote about him It is well known that Mr.
0., albeit a capital actor, a most refined gentleman, and
a splendid father, gave away in his early youth so many
locks of his hair to admiring Duchesses, that he has at
the present time rather less left than would make a
mourning ring for a morher-in-law. Well D’Orsay was
playing on Ballarat one time, and the editor of the paper
said that his ligo was a “bald performance." Next
morning D’Orsay went round to the office dragging a
Gatling gun after him, and asked the editor how he
dared abuse a man for being as Providence had made
him. The editor apologised ; and in the next issue of
the paper, said that he had been in error in saying that
only Mr. Ogden’s logo was a bald performance, but that
at the express wish of the actor named, he begged to
state that Providence had so ordained that in every
part Mr. Ogden undertook he was bound to be perhaps
the baldest performer in the Colonies. And yet we un-
derstand that D’Orsay was not satis ded.
* * * *
Mr. WiUter Reynolds has sent us from Auck-
land a charming communication, for which we owe him
many thanks, aLd as he will arrive here shortly in
search of fresh attractions, we trust he will look us up
so that we may enable him to look down a glass of
whisky and soda. From Walter’s communication we
hear that his Pollard-Reynolds Juvenile “Pinafore"
company is an enormous success, and that tiny Amy
Brooks has lately joined the company to enact Sir
Joseph, and that the services of Mr. Derbyshire, the
ballet master, have also been secured for training the
kids in the “ Cloches de Corneville” rehearsals. Hasel-
mayer only did in Auckland so so; the most magnificent
actor in the world very badly. Cary has also had a poor
time in Wellington with ChilptSric. The Danites
company has, well—disbanded. We wonder what has
become of the little “ man from America ?”
mm*
Maggie Knight, we hear, is a big favorite with
the Carden Company in Dunedin and Christchurch, and
we are by no means surprised to hear this, as
It really is not ev’ry day
You chance on such a Knight.
* * *
Professor Anderson and his “ pretty Louise ”
did well at Newcastle on their opening night, Saturday,
June 6th, but the rain which fell during the week threw
cold water on the prospects afterwards, and on Thurs-
day they returned the audience their money. The pro-
fessor has temporarily gone out of the horse line, but
still showers gold tickers and brilliant “ half-hoops ”
upon his patrons. We expect to hear him advertise
shortly that on his last night he will give away a coal-
mine. The “ steam man ” is also, we hear, exhibiting in
Newcastle in conjunction with a Punch and Judy.
Dominic Sonsee and Rob Roy the giant—as the Coffee
Palace waitresses say—“ to foller.”
* * * *
Amongst other miscellaneous items, we hoar
that Amy Sherwin, Tasmania’s gifted soprano, goes to
Europe shortly from America. That Rubinstein’s new
opera, “ II Demonio," is about to be produced in Lon-
don, with Albani in the chief role. And, to go from
great things to small, we are told that Herr Band-
mann means to tour Maoriland with a now company.
* * * *
“ Trial by Jury,” which the Manning River
Times calls a “ cantata ’’ has been produced at Taree.
The Times (no connection of the London rag) says that
“ both ladies and gentlemen played their parts with the
confidence that belongs to professionals, and const-
quently with better effect; ” (than the professionals we
E resume), “and it is to be hoped that this will not bo the
ist performance of the kind we may witness on the Man-
ning ; having made so good a beginning it were a pity not
to continue it ” (the beginning). We may suggest that
the Times should get the amateurs to play “ Les Hugue-
nots.” The music is absurdly easy, the only instru-
ments required are a big drum, a tin whistle, and a fellow
to take the cash, and all the performers are shot dead in
the last act.
* * * *
Mademoiselle Schneider, the original “ Grand
Duchess," is getting old, so has sold off her possessions
and retired into private life. Her house brought
£34,000. Her diamonds alone are valued at £12,000,
her necklace (the gift of a duke) being worth £4,000,
and her earrings, which were a present from the
Prince of Wales, being estimated at- £2,000. She is
now 59 years of age, and has three sons, all officers in
the army. And they’re all “ wise sons,” too.
* * * *
From London we learn that Salvini will appear
at the Gaiety Theatre early in July. We also see that
Gye has raised the stalls at Covent Garden (Italian
Opera) from a guinea to 255., and the stall-subscription
from 30 to 35 guineas. It is doubtful, however, whether
he will be supported in these exorbitant charges by
the public. Our opinion is that tacking on the extra 4s.
will not Gye—we mean gee.
* * *
Talking of opera, Covent Garden is this season
to have a new basso profundo in the person of an
Englishman—a Mr, Griffin. This gentleman is, we are
told, the son of a clergyman, and has been religiously
brought up. His morals are therefore straight. Well,
Sydney is nothing if not moral, and Sydney is very fond
of music. The sooner, therefore, that Mr. Gye gives us
the straight Griffin, the better we shall be pleased.
* * * *
The Irving-Booth combination is drawing im-
mense crowds at the London Lyceum, even at the
present high figures. Respecting the amalgama-
tion of the two tragedians, a London paper has the
following smart epigram :
“ Irving and Booth, alternately, they- say,
Othello and his Ancient mean to play ;
Of our applause which will be most deserving ?
Irving says ‘Booth,’ and Booth (of course) says
* Irving.’"
* * * *
Emmet’s second week at the Grand Opera House,
New York,—J.K. playing “ Fritz in Ireland,”—drew
crowded houses, right in the teeth of Bamum’s Circus,
which had successfully crushed the starch out of every
other show. J.K. must therefore be on the Q.T.—We
also glean that " Moody and Sankey have terminated
their California season, and are returning East. They
report business as moderately successful, but not up to
their anticipations. It is probable that they will dis-
band at an early day, in order to reorganise for a brief
Spring campaign."
* * *
The most amusing item, though, comes from
Philadelphia, which has long had the name of being the
most (esthetic of American cities. Three stars met
there at one time—Salvini, Sara Bernhardt, and
“ Buffalo Bill,” who is the George Darrell of America.
Well, strange to say, William’s gore and graveyard
show completely killed those of the two superb artists
at the other theatres. As an American contemporary
Oh, I loaf ze Sydney harbor!
Ah, mon dieu, e’est magnifique I
And I sometimes in one leetel boat
Go make a small picneeke.
C'est charmant! Hardly pass a week
Que je ue donne pas un peecneeke 1
Eh, bien, dimanche dernier wid some fren’
We went to Tennyson;
We had some pell-ell in ze boat,
Mais pas de zoedone;
Well, off one rock I digringdle
And e’lan / I tumble in ze 'ole.
Den all my fren’ cry on de shore—
“ Don’t go een after heem.
He is a Frenchman and zey are
All Caron-teed to sweem 1”
But one young printare, he save me—
A Bedome-man I nevare see! (a)
Adieu ! no peecneeke more I go;
Demain, helas, je pars.
But I’m sure zat I’ll always be
In Sydney popu-lare.
I’ve said ten times in ev’ry week—
“ Your harbor—ah, c’est magnifique 1”
(a) Zis is a puninonglish.—L.C.
* ♦ * ♦


-graphically exclaims —“ Blood will tell, and the crimson
gore of the terrible avenger from the wild woods of the
West crushed the life out of the French woman and the
Italian man !**
♦ * *
Is this all about America ? Not quite all. With
hated breath, with a soul that quivers at every rustle of
the midnight breezes, we murmur in a hoarse whisper
-that wo have found him! Display, courteous comp., we
entreat, the following ad. from the Clipper :
ME. GEORGE DARRELL,
THE AUSTRALIAN ACTOR-AUTHOR,
begs to notify journalists and managers that he
will present his original drama,
BACK FROM THE GRAVE
for the first time East at the Arch-street Theatre,
Philadelphia, on MONDAY, May 2.
MRS. JOHN DREW, WITH THE AUTHOR,
And a Special Company will appear. Pro-
prietary rights secured. City Address, Union-
Square Hotel. 6-lt
■*< Back from the Grave ” ! —ln truth, we thought, dear
George,
That to the silent vault thou hadst departed;
And never dreamt the tomb would thee disgorge, —
So wept, in secret, sad and broken-hearted!
Remain not long away, O public pet!
Return thou, George, the Drama’s benefactor!
E’en though th’ art crowned with Yankee laurels, yet
Come back to us, thou mighty Author-Actor.
* • *
One more American item, and we’ll cut the
•string. Clive Hersee (Rose’s brother) is married to
Miss Maggie Duggan, better known as “ the celebrated
high kicker.” Well, at the California Theatre, Clive ob-
jected to his wife dancing the can-can in the show, but
Maggie persisted. Clive then got “ tight,” and being of a
combative disposition when in liquor, got fighting first,
and lucked up afterwards. After being fined 20 dollars,Mr.
Hersee returned to his hotel and gave his wife a bit of
his mind and a good deal of hair-brush. Mrs. C., how-
•ever, objected, and retaliated with a lager beer bottle
with such effect that, two minutes afterwards, instead
of her husband being Clive, he was clove. A doctor
was called in, and having stopped up the hole in
Hersee’s head with a bit of tow and some plaster of
Paris, peace was restored, the quarrel having termi-
nated in a manner that reflected equal credit on both
parties. Since this, the high kicker has danced at the
Cal. every night, being, as the papers say, “ greatly
applauded by large and fashionable audiences.”
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Tn the days of Shakespeare, it was the custom
-of Patience to mount a monument and take lunars at
Grief. Since then, however, the fashion has materially
altered, and now-a-days, when patients reside within
easy reach of a monument, they perch themselves
beneath it. This reminds us that, although the un-
fortunate woman, Susan Nixon, died but once, she was
buried twice. As usual, it was the “ other boy " who
did the mischief.
♦ * *
There is a heap of sarcasm in the Sydney
Musical Society, who advertise for their next per-
formance that highly seasonable piece, “ Long Live the '
Czar." The selection in question is understood to be
scored for first and second dynamite shells, nitro-
glycerine cans, and bombs in B sharp. We’d like to be
the Czar—at a distance, and with a tin shirt on.
Miss “ Ada,” of “ Prospect Hall, Ashfield, has
dropped in for a bit of bad luck. She is no worse than
hundreds of living poetasters who weekly pester editors
with their lachrymose lyrics, but she is not so fortunate.
She has been found out. If Ada had not done the thing
so completely, there would have been a loop-hole of
escape for her, and she might have made the same
excuse that Puff did to Sneer when found introducing
«perdition catch my soul, but I do love thee 1” into
‘The Spanish Armada." However, the whole affair is
only a very small-beer chronicle, and Ada’s detected
plagiarism has given Mr. F. A. Packer, the author of
“ Ebb and Plow,” a very good gratuitous advertisement.
He cannot therefore complain—nor, indeed, can the
editor of the Evening News— for this gentleman will,
by the little incident be afforded pleasant employment
during these long evenings, in trying to puzzle out
where other “original” poems have been memorized
from. The case is simply a singular one of unconscious
cerebration.
"A Northern clergyman recently paid a visit
to New South Wales. He sought the seclusion of a
country hotel, but found, alas ! that the quiet did not
still the turmoil of his brain, nor pale the splendour of
his aspiratims. He must do something to demonstrate
his importance, or he would “ wither like a flower that
was waiting for the rain.” Having donned his surplice,
and seized an imposing book, he summoned the chamber-
maid and boots to “ accompany him with a pure heart,
etc.” The unsophisticated menials were overawed by
such clerical “ gorgeosity,” and listened to the prayers,
though they never had heard their like before. Every-
thing was advancing to the taste of his reverence, when
a joung lady, whose ear was better cultivated than
scrupulous, listened for a moment or two at the key-
hole, and having made sure that it was indeed the
familiar marriage service that she heard, rushed off and
informed the whole house of the mysterious pro-
ceedings, Just as the parson had said “William, will
you take ?” the door was flung wide open, and an
indignant landlady interposed her ample form between
the minister and his “aitdience." Thatevening William
found himself in a chaise cart on his way to —fresh
scenes, whilst Mary Jane was packing up her box in
readiness to depart by an early train. The reverend
mnrmurer thought it very hard when he was asked to
44 git ” next morning, and now he never ceases to
protest against the extraordinary interference of the
landlady with the holy rites of the Church. Neither the
housemaid nor the boots had asked the rev. gentleman
to unite them.
« « •
Healthy and lucrative work for the unemployed
—serving on a jury.
Saysfa writer in the Sydney Mail “ Again,
we have only to turn to the comic reports of musical
and theatrical performances to see how humorous
writing may become a mere mechanical art,” It’s a
monstrous thing that the papers never will leave the
Morning Rum alone.
V.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
A Young Men’s Christian Association has been
formed at Grafton.
It is said that Bishop Quinn, of Brisbane, goes
to England shortly.
A Freethought Association has been formed in
Auckland, New Zealand.
Eev. De Witt Talmage’s salary has been in-
creased from £l4OO to £2300 per annum.
More money is spent on liquor in Great Britain
in two days than is given to all the missions, Protestant
and Catholic, in a year.
A new sect has started in California which
believes in the literal construction of Bible language.
It is leading to trouble.
An appeal is being made in Melbourne on behalf
of the wives and children of the Wesleyan clergymen
drowned in the Tararua.
About .£l5OO have been subscribed in Canter-
bury (N.Z.) in aid of the families of the Bev. J. Armi-
tage and the Bev. J. B. Bichardson, lost in the Tararua.
We are sorry to hear that Dr. M’Gibbon is so
unwell that he has had to visit Queensland for a change
of air. The rev. gentleman left for Eockhampton on
Tuesday.
The C. of E. Synod has decided that the future
income of future bishops of Adelaide be not less than
£lOO per annum. It is not stated what shall be the
lowest for the curates.
In order that the Sabbath may not be desecrated,
ateamers are not allowed to “whistle” when leaving
Wellington (N.Z ) on that day. Some people have lost
their passage in consequence;
The Rev. Archdeacon Hales said that, “ In his
opinion there was no place in the whole British Empire
where unehastity was so common as in Launceston.”
Dr. Ellis must look to his laurels.
The Eev. Mr. Clough, Baptist missionary among
the Teloogoos of India, baptised 2758 converts in 1880.
He asks for five new missionaries to assist him. He
finds the weekly .wash too heavy.
Arthur Foster, a student of theology at Phillip’s
Academy, Andover, U.S., was shot on the 3rd April,
while in the act of committing burglary. His twin
brother, Luther, also a student, was “ in it.”
Dr. Thornton, Bishop of Ballarat, says that the
prohibition of marriage with a deceased wife’s sister is
not demanded by Scripture, and that it therefore
involves an unwarrantable limitation of social liberty.
In the diocese of Canterbury (Eng.), whose head
receives £15,000 a year,'and has two palaces to live in,
an assistant curate is to be found who receives the
magnificent allowance of £5 yearly and a! furnished
house.
Forty Mormon missionaries have left New York
on a proselytising tour in Europe. They want to per-
suade the upper classes that it is more religious to
marry half a dozen wives than to marry only one and
seduce half-a-dozen poor girls.
At Dubbo Police Court, the other day, seven
xnon, employed by Amos Brothers, railway contractors,
were fined five shillings each by Mr. T. A. Browne,
P.M., for a breach of the Sabbath Observance Act of
Charles IL, notwithstanding that it was clearly proved
that the work, the performance of which constituted
the offence, was one of necessity, and that had it not
been done the rest of the men would have been thrown
out of employment.
The Roman Catholic authorities have refused to
admit to the sacraments two leading residents of a
fashionable suburb, who, some years ago, ’verted to
Romanism, but persist in sending their children to a
school kept by Protestant ladies.
A man from Northern Queensland, where they
never go to church, and, indeed, have no churches to go
to, came down to Sydney the other day, and went to St.
Phillip's. But when he opened the prayer book and
saw “ collect ’’ written so often he took a scare and left.
St. Charles (R.C.) Ecclesiastical Seminary,
Bathurst, was formally opened on Sunday last by Arch-
bishop Vaughan. There was on the occasion a large
assemblage of the clergy and laity. The collection
made smounted to £2,200, Mr. T. Dalton, of Orange,
contributing £250.
Dean Flanagan, prior to his departure from
Wollongong, en route for Europe for the benefit of his
health, was entertained at luncheon by the Very Rev.
Archpriest Sheehy. A number of the E. C. clergy from
Sydney and other districts were present to bid the rev.
gentleman farewell.
The attempt to turn the Rev. C. B. Ramsdell,
of Washington, U.S , but of a Presbyterian pulpit
because he married a Roman Catholic wife, has failed.
Another old holy hatred weakening. There will soon
be nothing left for religious people except to love their
neighbours. This is appalling.
Bishop Reynolds (R.C.) of Adelaide, returned by
the John Elder and has been enthusiastically welcomed
by his people. We read that “during his voyage from
England in the John Elder the Bishop was robbed of a
watch presented by the Pope, and a number of medals
consecrated by the Pontiff." What about the Jackdaw
of Eheims ? *
There was a scene in a fashionable church the
other day. The respectable churchwarden—a bank
manager of the most aggressive orthodoxy— was carry-
ing round the bag for a collection, when a little girl
who had been overdosed with scripture history and had
learned to detest “the purse-bearer," broke into a
terrified scream of " Oh, mamma, mamma, here’s Judas
coming 1"
Father Maloney, a Catholic priest in Penn-
sylvania, claims to have wrought miracles by prayer.
According to his statement he has cured an 18 year
paralytic, and has restored a girl to life. The last
item knocks the stuffing out of Milner Stephen. He
should cable an inquiry where Father Maloney gets his
flannel. By the way, where is Chiniquy P All these
good things going on, and he not in it!
Governor and Lady Gordon usually stay to hear
the whole of the final voluntary at St. Paul’s, Welling-
ton. Two results have followed. Parker, the organist,
grinds out longer and sweller voluntaries than hereto-
fore, and the church is, after service is over, half-filled
with people who never showed any interest in the mnsic
before, but always scuttled home to their roast pork
and sage stuffing with the greatest celerity immediately
the benediction was pronounced.
The Rev. Baxter, who some years ago made
a big impression by setting up Napoleon 111, poor old
sinner, as “ the destined Monarch of the World," is
still thriving at the same old game. He edits the
Christian Herald, weekly circulation 195,000, and now
proclaims the near abdication of the Queen, and the
elevation of a Napoleon, “probably Prince Jerome
Napoleon,” as Daniel's little horn, who is to make a
seven year’s Covenant with the Jews, about seven year’s
before the end of this dispensation. (Dan. ix. 27).
In a Southern town a Sydney ecclesiastic was re-
cently collecting subscriptions for a religious object.
He got his flock into church, ordered the doors to be
locked and the keys hidden; then he told the penned
sheep that they were to give up not exactly what they
considered prudent, but what he thought they ought
to. He ordered some to turn out their purses and
pockets, but they informed him they hid nothing to
give. We haven’t yet heard whether this species of
ecclesiastical sticking up forms part of a system.
The Rev. L. M. Isitt, of Parnell, N.Z., has
struck a blow against celibacy of the clergymen among
the Wesleyan Methodists. Among the statutes of the
church is one which virtually prohibits marriage until
after four years probation. Isitt has only commenced
his third year, yet he visited New Plymouth and
brought back with him a blushing bride. It is expected
that the matter will be brought before the District
meeting, but if so Isitt will make trouble. It is
whispered that there are other laws which are broken
and nothing said. Isitt so ?
The Rev. Mr. Chambers, of Penshurst, is a good
man, going in strongly for a Personal Devil and the
Eternity of Hell. On Sunday, the 4th, in the course of
a sermon inflicted on the people of Narracoorte (S.A.),
he spoke piously against the sin of unbelief. This is
how he refutes the arguments of infidels: “ If,” he
said, “all the books of philosophy—English, French,
German, Italian, and Scotch—that have ever been
written could be gathered together into one heap and
burned, it would be a positive gain to mankind." This
logic was considered unanswerable, and the few sceptics
of Narracoorte feel sat upon.
Here is something good by the Sydney tele-
graphic correspondent of the Melbourne Herald :
“ A considerable stir in Anglican circles has been caused
by the antagonism between the High and Low Churches.
Dr. Ellis, the Precentor of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, was
engaged for five years in London by Bishop Barker, who
is extremely Low Church, being in fact called Wesleyan
by High Church people. As soon as Dr. Barker found
that Dr. Ellis was High Church, he became ill, and
suddenly departed on a tour. Dean Gowper, also Low
Church, who occupies the deanery of the cathedral,
really opposes Dr. Ellis, and refuses to enter the
cathedral when it is High time. Ellis is preaching most
eloquent liberal sermons to enormous crowds of all
denominations.”
The Victorian Independent is very rough
on the Rev. J. B. Gribble, of Point Darlington, N.S.W.,
who recently went over to the Anglican Church. The
Independent says that “not three months before his
change, he wrote to the Secretary of the Congrega-
tional Union, with respect to his joining the Episcopal
church: —‘I was led into the negotiations through
representations made by the local clergyman. . . .
But I could not conscientiously subscribe to the
articles, or, at least, to some of them. Therefore, I
must not play with the dictates of the moral monitor.
I have decided the matter to-day, having informed the
Bishop that, being a thorough Independent in principle,
I could not, of course, subscribe to the articles.’ Mr.
Gribble came from the United Free Methodist body,
and for a time acted as a mission agent under our
Union. His conversion has been of the quickest, but
we note it did not occur till the Government of N.S. W.,
to use his own words, ‘ made us a grant of 500 acres of
good land.’ We hope that our friends in the neigh-
bouring colony will take care that the grant of * good
land’ is, under tbe altered circumstances of the case,
revoked. Men of this stamp are not the slightest use
to us; the Episcopal or any other communion is
welcome to them.”
WOMAN ITEMS.
A woman, named Fuller, at Christchurch, N.Z.,
has given birth to triplets, stillborn.
Miss Emily Budgett has been appointed prin-
cipal of the Maryborough (Q.) Ladies’ College.
It is better to have loved and lost than to be
obliged to get up at 5 o’clock on cold winter mornings
to start a fire.
Miss Thompson’s famous Roll-Call, now owned
by the Queen, was four times refused admission by the
Boyal Academy.
The Southern Argus says that Miss Donovan,
daughter of Dr. Donovan, of Sydney, is to be professed
a nun in the Wagga Convent.
Minnie Pinneo, of Gresley, Colorado, has accepted
the challenge of Miss M. B. Williams, of England, to a
twenty-mile race for £2OO aside.
We learn that a Chinawoman is proceeding
against a faithless compatriot for breach of promise.
The pair are residents of Sydney.
“ Divorce made easy ” is one of the most popu-
lar institutions of Madagascar. Over there, a tired or
angry husband merely sends for his wife, and gives her a
piece of money before witnesses, saying, “ I thank yon,
madam,” and the work is done immediately. We have
plenty husbands over here who would adopt the
gkscar plan but for one thing—they lack the piece of
money.
Never look a man in the face, girls, it is im-
modest. Always fix your attention on his breast coat-
pocket—it usually carries the cheque-book.
“ I didn’t wonder at your grief,” said the father
to his widowed daughter, “ you’ll never find his equal.’
“ I don’t know, replied the sobbing widow, “ but I’ll do
my best.”
A correspondent of a provincial paper de
nounces as slavery the system under which Chinese
women are sold by auction to their countrymen in the
very heart of Sydney.
She was a boarder and asked permission of
preceptress to drive out with a gentleman. “ Are you
engaged to him?” enquired madame. “No, but I ex-
pect to be before I get back.”
The bride of Dr. Boyle, the special medic
attendant of Prince Leopold, was married in a dark
green velvet suit. Which appears to have been a great
innovation in the fashionable world.
Be Burdett-Coutts —
■ I went to a wedding the other day, ,
And heard the jolly parson say
To the bride who stood by, all blushing with joy,^
“ Do yon wish me to christen this blooming boy V
Says “ Buffler” in an English society paper :
“ The real truth as to the Baroness Burdett-Coutts’s
income is, I have reason to believe, this : she has an
income of £300,000 a-year, whereof £BO,OOO only is
derived from the bank.”
In the Queenscliff (Vic.) Sentinel appears
the following advertisement: —“Elderly gentleman,in
a good position, wants a good wife, not too young,
between 30 and 50—to make him comfortable for the
remainder of his days.”
At Melbourne, on Saturday last, two young
women were brought up for attempted suicide. Their
troubles were respectively love and want of work, and
they had severally taken laudanum and arnica. They
were lectured and discharged.
Save for debutantes and brides, black was the
only wear at the Queen’s Drawing Boom. Mrs. Cornwallis
West eclipsed everybody in a black silk costume, with
leaves of violets drawn across the train, and holding in
her hand a gigantic bouquet of white lilies.
It came out at the Melbourne City Police Court
the other day that the mother of a little boy before the
court was in the habit of chaining him up, with a collar
round his neck, while she went out. The boy said that
he would have a good time when his mother died.
Lady Hermione Duncombe, a daughter of Lad
Paversham, is the universally acknowledged belle of
the season in London. Her appearance at Lady Mex-
borough’s ball, the night after her at the Queen’s
Drawing-room, created an absolute “ sensation " among
the guests.
George Augustus Sala says that the Mormon
women are on a par in appearance and manners with
the lowest class of English domestic servants, and that
they are recruited largely from the north of England
and the midland counties, while many also go to Salt
Lake City from Norway and Sweden.
A Northern woman, who is fond of freckl
her conversation with French, says " that a certain
young Milesian of her acquaintance is such a nice man
only he has a ‘ saucepan ’ of the brogue on his
tongue.” And yet there are persons who continue to
assert that a little learning is a dangerous thing.
The Bussian police, hoping to wring a con-
fession from Hessetr Helfmann, who is enceinte, left her
without food for forty-eight hours. Helfmann is said
to have had seven fainting fits in that time. According
to a despatch, she obstinately refused to give any in-
formation against the Nihilists. When food was at
last brought to her she was unable to speak from ex-
haustion.
A correspondent, who is evidently a Milesian,
writes us thus “ Will you inform the public through
your paper why they place women in charge of the
post and telegraph offices. Some people say it’s to save
them the expense of keeping a bellman to cry the news
abroad. And if the husband has a right to know all
that passes through the telegraph offices that his wife
Has charge of ?” ,
Polygamy, from being a cheap arrangement,
has become so costly that only rich men can afford to
have a number of wives. These ladies will no longer
toil like Indian squaws, and fine clothes are quite as
costly in Utah as they are elsewhere. The Mormon
girls now decline to be anybody’s second or third wife,
and are beginning to prefer the whole of a humble
Gentile’s heart to the fifteenth part of an elder’s jaded
affections.
Speaking of the “ House that Sir Frederick
Leighton built,” Mrs. Haweis lets herself out as fol-
lows :—“ Further on—beyond the vestibule—dwells the
sun !; and here springs up the lovely dome as of the
Alhambra, made by the dust of the earth but quickened
by the rainbow, even as man’s body sprang from the
earth and received a soul. As for the glittering shim-
mering staircase, it winds like a treble passage out of
bass cords." Mrs. Haweis is an elderly lady with a wart
on her nose.
Ever since the assassination of the Czar,' the
Czarina has been suffering from severe hysteric
attacks. She has been threatened with death of the
most horrible description should Sophia Perovsky aud
Hesseg Helfmann, the two women implicated in the
assassination, be executed. She made the most strenu-
ous efforts to obtain their pardon, and received a pro-
mise to that effect. She did not discover the deceptive
character of this promise until after the execution of
Perovsky, and the discovery threw her into violent
paroxysms.
Ellen Eyan and Mary Ford, two Melbourne
larrikinesses, were lately charged with having bitten
the calves of Constable John Smith, and were gaoled
for one quarter. Any girl who would gnaw a police-
man’s calf would chew the tail off a lone widow’s goat.
Unless such amusements be nipped in the bud, no
Victorian female will consider she has dined unless
the m&nu contained curried constable or Orange-
killed policeman. The Melburnians are closely fol-
lowing in the wake of Viti Levu, where they serve up
martyred missionary with a toe-martyr-sauce-and-big-
drum accompaniment.
The Czarina is slight and tall, but looks
mignonne beside her husband. She has less regular
features than the Princess of Wales or the Duchess of
Cumberland, but has more expression and animation.
Her eyes are those of a songbird. The face is oval, and
the nose slightly retroussi ; the mouth is pouting, for
this illustrous lady has full rosy lips. She has beautiful
silken hair. Her hands and feet are small and elegant.
And yet she was brought up in very straitened circum-
stances, and taught to make her own dresses and
bonnets. Her father’s income did not exceed £l2OO a
year before he ascended the Danish throne.
/ lady having torn her dress at a ball recently
given by the Crown Prince of Germany in the Berlin
Schloss, retired into an ante-room to repair damages,
when the Crown Prince himself came to her aid and
pulled from his pocket a pair of scissors and a packet
of pins, remarking that he always carried these articles
about him. Just then the Crown Princess came in and
observed that his Imperial Highness might find some-
thing else to do in the Empire besides playing man-
milliner. And it is stated in court circles that the
young lady’s dress when she emerged from; that ante-
room was worse torn than when she went in, and that,
judging by sounds, either the Crown Prince started by
slapping her cheeks and the Princess continued by
kissing her loudly, or vice versa.
The Baroness Burdett-Coutts, says one who
knows her well, is remarkable for both her vitality and
her energy, which are said to be extraordinary. When sbe
is perfectly well she defeats her age by at least a dozen
years. She is a good horsewoman, and is still fond of
exercise; and she walks with ah elasticity which many
a younger woman might envy. Her capacity for busi-
ness has long been known, and though her benevolence
is boundless, no begging impostor could ever hope to
outwit her. She has all the shrewdness of the charity
organization society without the callous cynicism
which makes that body little better than a system of
police. Her knowledge of politics and politicians ex-
tends over half a century ; and os she can write, as well
as s'cak with no little grace and pungency, a hook of
her recollections should have greater interest than any.
thing of the kind which has been published for many
years.
MORE J.P.’s—ORSNONE.
“ Awful disclosures about ill-treatment of a girl
at Kiaraa. She accuses her master, a man named
Stapleton, of pushing her into the fire, pouring boiling
water down her shoulders, stripping her to the waist,
and lashing her with a hide whip, &c. The magistrates
fined the accused £lO 111”
There is a law a beast to shoot
That’s dang’rous to society ;
But there’s no law to kill a brute
That’s cruel to satiety!
A wretch may on his slave inflict
4 ‘ The tortures of the damned.” sirs.
And yet there’s no law, we predict.
Can touch him in the land, sirs.
A villain scalds his servant’s back.
Then takes a rod and flays it.
He’s fined. Of cattle he’s no lack;
So—sells two cows and pays it.
That scoundrel’s wife, for months, may beat
A helpless fellow creature.
And give her offal foul to eat; —
Yet there’s no law to reach her!
In truth we want some more J.P.’s —
Or stay—it may befall,
Both law and order would increase
• If we had none at all I
AN ELOPING EAEL OVERHAULED AND
THRASHED.
“London, April 30.—The Earl of Shrewsbury
eloped with Mrs. Miller Mundy, of Shipley, Derbyshire.
The fugitive pair fled to Strasburg, where the lady’s
relatives overtook them, gave the Earl a sound
thrashing, and brought the lady back to England.”
The Earl of Shrewsbury ran away,
(Defying Mrs. Grundy)
So we read the other day.
With Mrs. Miller Mundy.
Mr. Miller caught the pair
Ere they got on board-ship.
And got into a fearful tear.
And “ went” straight for his lordship.
We’re not surprised at this at all.
But what shocks Mrs Grundy
Is, that to his “ Ancestral Hall ”
He took back Mrs. Mundy.
THE TWO SKELETONS:
A GASTROTOM[?]CAL BALLAD.
Lo, midnight in twelve solemn staves
Boomed o’er the great metropolis,
And two grim spectres on their graves
Reclined in the Necropolis.
The bones of both were women’s bones j
And they “lay off” on their tombstones.
Qnoth one—“ Ton seem a deal of style
This good night to be apeing ma’am;
I saw you since a little while
Your finger nails a scraping, ma’am.
And polishing, O you vain lass.
Your skull-top with a tuft of grass.
“ Who are you, I should like to know,
Who put on so much 4 iam,' my dear.
To take you down a peg or so,
I’ll tell you who I am, my dear.
I died when aged just twenty-three—
Forgotten at th’ Infirmary. ’’
The other proudly towards her look’d :
Quoth she — 44 Folk think a lot o’ me;
Why I’m the girl the doctors ‘ cook’d”
A tryin’ on gastrotomy.
Yes, dear; these are the self-same bones
That called on Dr. Sydney Jones.
*• I do not wonder that you stare;
For I’m a curiosity;
And what they all thought, I declare,
A medical monstrosity.
When fleshed, ma’am, these bones paid their duty
(And ten and six) to Dr. Schuette.
“ Why, dear, it was said to my face
That really there was nought as cu-
Rious as Susan Nixon’s case.
By that nice Dr. Fortescue ;
While Dr. Brown and Dr. Wright
Admitted that it 44 knoeked ” ’em quite.
Such nice men, dear, those surgeons were;
So kind was Dr. Warren, too;
And so polite, you know, my dear.
Were Marshall and M’Laurin too.
I'm sure that they’d not ask in vain
To try their luck on me again.
“ Of course it was a sad mistake—
They ought to have been sure before;
But smilingly my fate I take
For I was so obscure before;
While I’m the talk now, ev’ry hour.
Of Doctor Hogg and Doctor Bower.
“ Long leaders on me scribes do write
In ev’ry daily organ, ma’am;
On me a pamphlet will indite
Soon Dr. Cecil Morgan, ma’am;
And Dr. Laure will cry, 4 Ma foi
Mes amis, cela m'ipate tout fa.’
“ Of course they liked me, hut so well
My body did they carve upon.
That thoughts of Doctor Warren’s skill
My soul acts like a salve upon.
And that’s why I can’t quite make out
What they’re all quarrelling about.
** With my case they did all they could;
But yet I cannot doubt it, ma’am.
That not one doctor of the brood
Knew anything about it, ma’am.
Yet what a comfort 'tis to me
To know I’ve been killed legalee."
When Susan thus did end her tale.
Behold, the moon shone brightly out
From a soft gauze of cloudlets pale.
Then Nixon shouted lightly out,
“ Don’t you, my dear, agree with me
That I’m a true celebrity ?”
This is only a little chaff, however. What we think of
the affair, we said seriously last week.
* * *


Public Compai
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED ]
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP ]
Paid-up Capital-
Reserve Fund....
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.R
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hob. Wm. Bnsby, M.t.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King
AUDITORS:
Jas. Seroggie, Esq.
H. £. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, Ge
LONDON BANFF
The National Provincial Banl
London Office, 30, Great f
Director—Edward Chap
Agent—G. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Bf
Agency Business on the most favou
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mi
other produce shipped to England 1
s
TDNET AND COUNTY B.
Incorporated rmder “Companh
Authorised Capital, £
DIRECTORS:
Montague Levey, Esq.,
W. A. Broadribb, Esq.,
Alexander Bowman, Es
Robert Hudson, Esq.
J. Yelverton, Esq., J.P
Frederick Cook, Es
Head Office : George-street M
Frederick Cook, Chief
John Alexander Larnat
SOLICITORS
Messrs. Macarthy, Roberts©
This Bank will open for general !
or about Ist July next, by which
the alterations to its premises no
will be completed.
Sydney, May 27,1881.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURAN
VICTORIA (LIMIT
Established a.d, 1
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, 8
Directors:
John Kee.p Esq., Cha
Ebenezer Vickery, Es
Andrew Drysdale, Esi
This Society is established for Li
granting of Annuities and Endowm
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding
proportionate amount of the entii
Society at every distribution there
LOANS granted on Mortgage or <
combined with Life Assurance.
WM.
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL L
ASSOCIATION. LI
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late
STREET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscril
Directorss
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.O.M Q.,
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.I
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I H(
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E.
T. R. Smith, Esq ,'
LIFE DEPARTMENT.—No enta
or other expenses; premiums re
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or wee!
FIRE DEPARTMENT.—Fire ri
m
W
i
A
ginmuMir
unadulterate
BAK/NC POWi
—-VHHwa
India and China Tej
705 GEORGE STEEET, HA
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new wa
We beg to call special attention of the public to onr B
Blend, 2/-; Finest Royal Blend, 2/6; Superior Queen's Blei
Packed by ns, and bearing our trade-mark as a guarantee of pn
packets, and in canisters of 51b and 71b; also, catties, boxes,
these TEAS can be obtained at the. Stores, or of our travellers.-
T
HE NF
AWARDED ti
foi
SYDNEY 1
THE DAVIS
ABOVE THE
highly estimat
parts of the col
B. O.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TH
The Universal Sewii
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the Nei
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call an
Sold on easv terms. Can be seen working at the Depot.
Public Comps
C
OENWALL FIRE AND
ANCE compa:
CAPITAL, £lOO
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted bj
Q. A. LLOT D A
Agents,
348 GEORGE-STR
SIDNEY.
DEO BONO I
THE MUTUAL TRADE PROT]
TION OF N. S.
J. HURST, Secbe'
Offices: 32 BRIDGE STRE3
Established npon the most improv
for the protection of Merchants
fraud, imposition, or bad debts, t
the leading Mercantile communi
The following business is underti
or through the intervention o
licitor: —
The recovery of rents and debts
otherwise, by written or personal
a course of systematic routine.
Powers of Attorney, deeds, or ass
and executed.
Bills of Sale, Mortgages on Stock,
executed or registered.
Wills, Patents, and Registered Do
searched.
The Certificates of fradnlent or'un]
opposed in the interests of ere
Debts proved in insolvent estates
or balanced periodically.
Absconding Debtors traced and ms
Searches and Private Inquiries mai
A Credit Guide issued periodica
Notices” sent to members when
Assigned Estate supervised or lie
Searches or Inquiries made, and a:
all kinds of • Mortgages, Bills i
Liens, Protection Orders, &c.
Postages, Cash Outlay for Court
accordingly.
Records Filed at the Offices of tl
ceming all Registered Acts ei
United States, England, Scotian
Australian Colonies, New Zealam
N.B.—The facilities thus offered
public enable those who wish t
transactions to achieve both lega
tion by the powerful co-operation
upon mutual principles.
Membership for Inquiry Branc
annum. Membership for General
annum.
RELIABLE COUNTRY AGEI
JNCOMES A g
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKIN
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIE
In the event of loss of si
MEMBE RS are entitled to recei
th the amount insui
The Society also uses its inflnem
suitable re-engagem
For further particulars apply to
G. HORTON MOR
S.
Wer
1
Applications for Agencie
Pbotograpbei
PARLOUR S 1
The Really Popular (and cheap) 1
805 GEORGE ST
4-1* ~ Bnll ,*_ rp„
T
HOS . J .
ENGINEERS,
BOW
BEASSF(
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, Sj
HOSE, Ac.
-#0
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES,
PNEUMATIC BELLS ANI
Repairs of every descriptio
107 BATHUEST-STREE
ONDON MORTGAGE,
I DISCOUNT BAJ
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUT
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED II
SPECIAL NOTIC
The Directors place before those d
advantages upon easy terms—UN;
advantages. Their method of tram
highly commended, CONCESSIO
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE
BILLS OF SALE on furniture,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded
ties, Personal effects, &0.,
AND UPON ANY REASONAB
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acce]
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY,
QUARTERLY instalments; or as
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interview
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address, TH
London Loan and Discount Ba
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
CUP CONST
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT


Chemists and Dm
THE following Lis
WATSON’S EENOWNED P
MEDICINES,
80 well and favourably known to the
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antil
Watson's (Vegetable) Won
Watson’s Gingerbread Wor
Watson’s Compound Chlor<
Watson’s Strengthening Ey
Watson’s Australian Venni
Watson’s Excelsior Tootha
Watson’s Concentrated Goi
Elixir (a most valuable
can be obtained, wholesale and re
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STEP
PQTHECABIE
14 OXFOED STEE
Near Hyde Park C<
(N.B.—The Tram-car stope
W. D. EAMES, Pb
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLED
GOVEENOE,
And one of the Founders of t.
Societies of Victoria and New
W. D. E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded hi
Irrespective of Club prescription
has dispensed 34,000 original prescj
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THE
Every prescription is CAEEPUI
the BEST DEUQS, copied, number
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folio
E AMES’S QUINII
Which improves the appetite an
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGE STI
For severe cases where the gastri
and when sickness and flatulent
EAMES'S COMPOUND ANTL
Which relievo the bowels gently, a
naturally healthy functions <
organs.
Chemists and Drug
MAKE NO MOE
| but try
EANDEESON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZI
Do you SUFFEE from HEADJ
Then try E
PODOPHYLL
Do you Complain of Indigestion
Take a few doses of 1
PODOPHYLL
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and 1
EANDEESOi
Do you constantly suffer from B
If so remember
podophyl;
will soon cure, if taken as d;
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDIC:
Are any of your children sick a
can safely give them one o
for the small members of
TAKE WEL
•S’ Eemember this, and always
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pro
EDWAED EOW and C
45 and 47 Georsre-str
gY EOYAL LETTEI
The Greatest
WONDEE OF THE
JOSEPHSON'S
AUBTEALIAN OINTI
Guaranteed bo b
Free from all poisonous qnalitie
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Plants
in the Bush of New Sout
This Ointment is not a mere cat
public, nor does it require any puff
as it has been so well proved for th
that it is impossible that the public
long deceived. In fact, people are n
lons regarding its efficacy (never 1
article of the kind before which s
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the m(
High and low, rich and poor, have
fits from its use, and scarcely anj
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIA
is now the household word of the c<
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OF TB
which, taken altogether, prove the i
to be the Eighth Wonder of the W
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, t
bands and lips, bunions, soft cot?.
casualties attending the human fri
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON'S AUSTEALIA!
the
WONDEE OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perfe
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External f
may bo cured by using Josephson
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns ai
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excoriat
tion when a remedy like Jose]
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles y
Josephson’s Australian Ointment if
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants ft
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK POE JOSEPHSON’S I
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storefc
and Is 6d each throughout the cole
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWAED EO
c
ENTRAL PH
78 (Late 84) KING ST
Tobacconist!
JAMES
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Baby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leal
Best Imported Bra:
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and Bi
159 PITT STB
Next Post Office
o
TIN TAG TOBA
None are genuine bat the E<
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or YANKE]
DIXSON & SOIi
16 YOEK STEEET,
SMOKE
EUREKA GIGA
MILD, FRAGRANT, & I
a
Manufactured b j
•T. SAT W E
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACCM
Clarence-street, 8y
CLARKE A!
Wholesale and Eeti
GROCE
Are acknowledged to
THE BEST TEA IN
THE CHEAPEST B
for
AUSTEALIAN WINES anc
QEOCEEIES.
Country Orders promptly a
193 OXFORD I
x
SM
SS
-4
x
H
O
<
H
X
O
Pi
Business Annouu
H. P A
PiANOPOETE WAE
352 George-stre
PIANOFORTES Pli
JUST EECEIVED. JUS
from the
BEST PACTOEIES of EUEOP]
A splendid stock to se!
EYEEY EENOWNEL
AMERICAN OR*
By the celebrated
W. BELL, A 5
Which grained first and s
OYEE ALL OTI
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTEENATIOI
HARMONIU:
BY
ALEXANDEE and other EENC
in all the various i
A FEW GOOD SECOND-I
at low prices, now i
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard'
Soufleto’s, Kirkmau’s, and Hi
fortes.
W. Bell, k Co.’s, Horace Water
and Warren’s, and Smith and
352 GEOEGE S
Opposite Wynyard.
Svduey.
•T
HOM A S
W
ENGINEER & lEONI
EIRE
AND
BUEGLAE
PEOOF
SAFES
AVD
DOOES.
Works: SUSSEX BTEEET, & <
Office and SHOVP EOOMS, 22
lowtcovwNMtnr obser
d


JJLADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
BLADON;S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and ORANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle,
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rations remedy as a preventive or cure of Biliousness,
purr
Indii
ligestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, or the ahuse of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, Ac.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master-
piece—Man. Remember this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justlv be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
4 PPEOYED BY THE GOVERNOR.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I have to inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and the-
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the ‘ Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform yon that his Exeellencv
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“ Reginald Bloxsome, P.S.
.‘‘Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
LADON’S HEALTH SAL I N E..
B
The Australian Churchman says;
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK.
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney ; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
I
Af4V W/\TChj P/AF^T
HMt
pi/IN fICUpE£, fiEV\/ DEjSICIJjS.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of aU kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T, GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
l&S
'PUBLIC NOTICE.
OUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
Have stood the test - o/PUBLIC OPINION
for more than t : -
A QUARTER OF A CENTURY,
id are still acknowledged tp be unequalled.
Ad toho wear shirts and. value comfort ate
respectfully solicited to patronize
«~ \ SMITH & MANNELU
? SHIRT MAKERS & HOSIERS.
129 S George 'Street,
ESTABLISHED 1844. SYDNEY
Try BUS HELL
FOE
S I G_N S.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
WHOLESALE $ RETAIL IMPORTERS $ MANUFACTURERS.
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
We are is a poaiton to sell nsder all other Boot
Establishments is the colony.
CO
CD
CD
OUE CUSTOMEES EEAP THE BENEFIT OF
OUE LAEQE CASH PUECHASES,
Only those who have visited oar establishment can
conceive the advantages we offer.
The Leading Boot
Shop of Australia.
Gents’ plain Elastic
Boots, own make,
6/6.
For every week’s
Sale, the
Newest Designs.
Our stock of
Gents’ Kid Boots
is not equalled in
Sydney.
Gents* superior Kid
Boots, from 12/6.
Babes’ Fancy Shoes
1/9.
Large variety.
Gents’ English
Call Shoes, sewn,
9/6. Good quality.
Ladies’best high-
bntton Boots —the
grandest assort-
ment in Sydney.
All GOODS Maesbd in PLAIN FIGURES.
Gents’ Kid Shoes,
10/6.
Gents’ English
Calf Boots, sewn,
10/6—best in town.
Ladies’ Olacie
Kid Button Boots,
12/6, worth 15/6.
Children’s button
gaiter Boots — a
large and beautiful
assortment.
Oar Stock is always
New,
For every week’s
Sale, >
New Goods.
Gents’ Shoes, oar
own make,
7/6, worth 10/6.
Oar immense pur-
chases enable os to
undersell all other
establishments.
All GOODS Masked in PLAIN PIGUEES.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
We abstain from giving a fall List of Prices, as
it wonld only be a guide for other shopkeepers to
copy, with inferior goods at the same rate.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY, 510 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
GOWING BROTHERS’ iob 6d double texture twilled
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
SILK NAGASAKI UMBBELLAS, on Fore’s Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five cases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’ READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET,
in CUT, MATEEIAL, and WOEK, to ordered goods.
TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
shrunk and well cut. TWEED TEOUSEES and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
«
ATT. GOODS MASKED IN PLAIN FIGUEES AND SOLD JOE NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEOEGE STEEET, opposite Central Police Office,
332 GEORGE STEEET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTof§BAP.
Trade mark “ Arm and Dolly ” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
TRADE
MARK
The GEAND GK)LD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWAED, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FEEBLY, SOFTENS WATEE,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, 4c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, 4c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, 40.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN EAUCH,
16 CHAELOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
£. KEEP 4 CO.,
ELIZABETH STEEET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
E. D. NEILSON,
9EI3BANE, QUEENSLAND
AKE TOUE PUECHASES
AT
THE EOTAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTRACTIVE PRICES.
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving full information respecting economi-
cal House fonnisbing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PURCHASERS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BEOTHEES,
LATE
W. B. CAMPBELL,
EOTAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 * 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Royal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clock for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
Sims and paekes,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
TREAT ALL DISEASES WITH HERBS.
BOOKS FOE NOTHING—GET ONE!
You will get information that may save yon pounds,
and perhaps months.or even years of suffering.
Address: 240 GEORGE STREET NORTH,
Opposite Charlotte Place,
SYDNEY*
THE KOOKABURRA.
A Growing Industry.—Fanning.
Alexander 11. was a-bom(b)-inated.
To sober an inebriate —Bale him out.
Speckled Beauties —Freckled sisters.
Lover—treasure. Husband—treasurer.
To remove stains from character —Get rich.
When you make light of a man do you cremate
him?
Returning good for evil. —Cashing a forged
cheque.
“ Reform, my dear, means humbug pure and
simple.”
Better be up with the lark than down with the
small-pox.
When the patient begins to feed more, the
doctor is feed less.
The Monaeo A eecury acknowledges the
receipt of a letter “ containing no contents.”
Mahurangi, N.Z. is in a very backward state of
civilization. No insured house has yet been burnt
down there.
There is a great deal of bitter sarcasm exhibited
by a bulldog in a midnight interview with a young man
and a guitar among the roses.
How evenly balanced are Nature’s works. The
same cold wind that disarranges the skirts blows dust
in the eyes of the gaping loafer.
The Mail has an article on “ How to administer
physic to Dogs.” We always thought that physic
should be “ thrown ” to the dogs.
A scientific version of an old aphorism: Let us
eat, drink, and make merry, for to-morrow we shall be
carbonic acid, water, and ammonia.
The hanging of Rohafl, the Yalca murderer, was
a failure. He didn’t fall with a “ dull thud;” and what
is a hanging without a “ dull thud ” to a reporter ?
If ever you write a love-letter to a married
woman, date it April Ist. Then, if the husband find it,
clap him on the shoulder, and yell, “ Fooled again, old
boy!”
Sunday-school teacher (reprovingly): “ Boys,
do you know what day this is?” Arab : “Hi! here’s a
cove as don’t know what day this! I s’pose he’s been
out all night! ”
The hypocritical tear is that shed by the sorrow-
stricken parent as he “ gives away the bride ’’—of
whom he has been'trylng his best to dispose of for the
last ten years.
Scene at modern university. Professor: “ Who
will see Mr. B. before next Monday ? ” Lady Student
(hesitating and blushing): “ I shall see him on Sunday
night, probably.”
From the Morning Tuppeny “ Wanted a
man, cow, boots, garden. Apply Wimbledon Hall,
Bourke-street.” Is it a man cow, or cow boots, or what
is it that is wanted ?
Mick, a number of the foorce in a northern town
addressing a mob of larrikins : “ Git out o’ this—kum
hont o’ that an’ don’t be shtandin’ in lumps con-
strnctin’ the toe-path! ”
A Parramatta man says that the official respon-
sible for the non-delivery of the Government blankets
to the Penrith blacks ought to be exposed one of these
bleak nights to the mercy of the elements, with nothing
on but a red tape comforter.
At a Canadian hotel lately, a terrible noise was
heard to proceed from the bath-room. Sara Bernhardt,
it was found, had pulled out the plug from the waste-
water pipe, and had slipped into it. Her maid managed
to pull her out with a button-hook.
The other day a doctor examined the wounds of
a gentleman who was shot in Ireland, and said that in
his opinion “ If the deceased had had prompt surgical
treatment he might have recovered from three of the
wounds, but the fourth was necessarily fatal.”
A man who has religious friends staying with him
doesn’t like to see his dog, which has been very quiet
during week days, begin right after breakfast on Sunday
to run to the gun in the corner and then to his master,
and wag his tail, and then run to the gun again.
Saturday's Echo gives us three columns of an
article on the “Sea,” which opens thus —“The Sea, oh
how I love it! How we all love it!" We remember
“seeing ” an article in another daily journal which star-
ted off in the same strain, but in that case the author
referred to whisky.
She was an aristocratic young lady, and thus
exhorted her Sunday School class of boys: Now,
children, don’t say naughty words, but be good and
you’ll go to Heaven, and that will bo perfectly splendid.
But if you’re bad children and don’t say your prayers
you’ll go to hell, and that will be perfectly ridiculous.
The young man who hammers his thumb-nail
this winter while putting down carpets, or who is vio-
lently caught under the chin by a clothes-line when he
goes out in the yard after dusk, should remember that
in the revised edition of the New Testament the words
have been changed to “ hades" and " condemnation."
A young lady slipped opposite Thompson and
Giles’ the other day, and lay there waiting to be
rescued. One of the young men who has charge of
the hosiery department was coming back from lunch at
the time, and viewed the spectacle with professional
curiosity for a moment or two. And then he said:
“ Very pretty, but we can do them at two and three."
The reason there are only 367 pianos in Crown-
street, Surry Hills, is because there are not 368‘
houses in it. Luckily, however, an obliging young
man has kindly consented to learn the cornet, and now
worries up the scales from 5 a.m. until he sniffs the
ragrant breakfast in the morning air. We predict a
glorious future for this budding Levy—that is if they
cover him up and keep the frost away from him.
Captain Dan. O’Connor, of H.M.S. “ Brisket,”
says he’d rather “ ate the shtoues of the streets ” than
Orange killed beef; Temperance Boseby, Worshipful
Grand of the “Never-touch-its,” says he will introduce
a bill next session to shut down on all circus shows
which contain a tight rope performance. John Davies
cut a friend who plumped bald-headed for him at the
last election simply because he (the friend) allowed his
wife to keep an Old Tom cat. And yet we are told Aus-
tralia wears the belt for non-sectarianism and undiluted
liberty.
“Slightly Tight.” Newspaper people are
proverbially temperate, as well as virtuous. We believe
one of the craft did get “ slightly tight ” a few days
ago, and the following is a sample of his paper the next
day: “Yesterday morning, at 4 o’clock, p.m., a small
man named Jones or Smith] committed arsenic by
swallowing a dose of suicide. The verdict of the
inquest returned a jury that the deceased came to the
fact in accordance with his death. He left a child and
six small wives to lament the end of his unfortunate
loss. In death we are in the midst of life.”
A leading New Zealand journal in its Gaelic
column innocently observes: —“The following verses
by the late Mr. Gillies, of Hampden, cannot fail to
interest all Good Templars.” One of the verses alluded
to ogs along as follows: —
“ Oran an aghaiddh misg—
Mi-dhiadkaidheachd agns ecoir
Dhaoine a tha ’bacadh na flmu
Bochdninn a’s nair na miltean striopachas Jhu.”
We quite agree with this, though we don’t know
whether it’s a portion of the Lord’s prayer or a recipe
for making pie-melon jam out of speckled potatoes.
“No ‘ Gospel’ truer than this,” was ever howled
upon the Domain sward. In the sylvan groves of
Woolloomooloo resided a couple who loved one another
dearly. He was in the commercial line, and she spent
her time in the garden of life gathering and running—
with the aid of a sewing machine. One Sunday after-
noon he came upon her alone in the parlor of her pa.
He seized her hand and popped the question. Palter-
ngly she murmured “Yes, George." In his
nthusiasm he clasped her frantically to his breast. An
ntranced silence of a minute. Then in a voice clear
nd musical as the tinkle of a silver bell, she mnr-
• ured —“I’ll always cook your onions when we’re
, George.”


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. C. C. Eawlins, of Glenrowan fame, is
coming to settle in Sydney.
Mr. Cowdery has succeeded Mr. Mason as
Engineer for Existing Lines. His salary will be £lOOO.
Mr. A. E. Doig, of Blue’s Point, Sydney, has
lent the Grafton Borough Council £4OOO at 6 per cent.
M. Julien de Court has been appointed French
Consul in Sydney, vice M. Ballieu, who goes to
Mauritius.
The Dubbo Dispatch says Mr. Hoskins is
going home for a trip, and cynically adds that scores
of hon. members, including his colleagues, will be glad
bo wish him hon voyage.
The Earl of Dysart, editor of Vanity Pair,
who is to be married to Mdlle. Bischoffsheim, daughter
of the Jewish banker, divorced his first wife for
adultery with Sugden the actor.
It is stated that Mr. W. A. Duncan, C.M.G.,
retires from the Collectorship of Customs shortly, and
will be succeeded by Mr. G. A. Lloyd, now one of the
representatives of Newcastle in the Assembly.
The Duke of Sutherland, the Marquis of Stafford,
and four English Railway directors, are visiting the
United States to study the American railway system.
A Duke, a Marquis, and four Directors ! Shade of Fisk,
-what a ring!
The Czar is a lineal descendant of Princess
Sophia, mother of George I. Under the Act of Settle-
ment he is entitled, other heirs failing, to succeed to
the throne of Great Britain. We’ll be hanged if he
-does, though.
M. Leon Caron, conductor of the Gaiety orches-
tra, slipped off a reck into deep water at Tennyson on
Sunday. It is said that his high B when yelling for
help was more effective than any of Charles Turner’s
best chest notes.
Mr. P. Doyle, the late rate-collector at Charters
Towers, is suing Frederick Hamilton, a Towers borough
councillor, for £2OOO damages for having used defama-
tory and scandalous language against him at a Council
meeting. The proprietor of the Towers Herald, as
well as;Mr. O’Kane, of the Northern Miner, is being
sued for having reported Hamilton’s remarks.
Beaconsfield’s will has been
proved under £60,000.
Mr. Eobert England, the well-
known horse importer, of Broadmea-
•dows, Eockhampton, is dead, after a lin-
gering illness.
Mr. Shiels, the talented young
member for Normanby in the Victorian
Assembly, is very ill, and, it is said,
about to resign.
Mr. Joseph Liversey, surnamed
The Father of Teetotalism, is 84 years
of age. Teetotalism evidently ages men
very much.
Professor Darwin, though past
seventy, and confined to his bed, con-
tinues to prosecute his researches. He
is an inveterate reader.
That prince of practical jokers,
Mr. Gatehouse, who when Mayor of
Melbourne used to ride home on a
saveloy-machine at two in the morning,
is seriously ill.
The latest photograph of the de-
ceased Czar represent him as an ema-
ciated old man, with, in the once mild
blue eyes, the stare of terror and hallu-
cination.
Earl Beaconsfield’s nephew, Con-
ingsby Disraeli, whose majority is fixed
at 26, is his sole heir. All correspon-
dence, MSS., etc., were bequeathed to
Lord Eowton,
J. T. Morton, of Glasgow Bank
notoriety, was, it now appears, fined £5
and costs, with an alternative of 30 days’
gaol, on a charge of selling cream
diluted with skim milk.
The “ Skirmishers,” an Irish or-
ganization in America, are said to
have sentenced Mr. Gladstone to death,
on account of the part he took in pass-
ing the Irish Coercion Act.
Concerning Carlyle, a critic
writes : “ He sometimes cants terribly
against cant, his praises of silence are
very voluminous, and his ‘ Eternal
Verities ’ are about the best stuffing for
windbags in the world.”
Mr. Dnngan, of the Marrawatu
Times, has been committed for trial
for libelling Mr. A. McMinn, editor of
the Marrawatu Standard. Dnngan is
also criminally prosecuting McMinn.
Eatanswill again.
In the libel case, A. L. M'Dougall,
P.M., Grafton, verus Thomas Bawden,
■ex-M.P. for the Clarence, to be tried
at next Circuit sittings at Grafton,
a strong committee has been formed to
defray defendant’s costs.
Mr. Elphinstone Eoe, Telegraph
Inspector of Western Australia, has
started for England to submit to the
Admiralty a system of signalling by
red and white lights, which has been
•successfully tested in the colony.
At Adamstown, New Zealand,
there is a young man named John
Crowley, who is 6 feet 10i inches in
height. He is twenty-two years of age,
is engaged in farming pursuits, and is
-strong in proportion to his height.
The oldest printer in Australia is no more. Mr.
T. Wilkinson, who recently died at Brunswick (Yic.),
aged eighty-two, arrived in Tasmania in 1833, and went
over to Melbourne seven years later. He started the
Portland Gazette in 1842.
Mr. Timothy M'Healy, M.P., a youthful and
bombastic Home Euler, has denounced Mr. Forster, the
Chief Secretary for Ireland, and challenged him to
mortal combat with swords. The cream of the joke is
that Mr. Forster is a Quaker.
Henri Eochefort is a very charming man to con-
verse with, chatty, using choice language, but without
rant or flowers of speech. He speaks like one who
believes what he is saying, and as one having confidence
in the success of the cause which he advocates.
Thomas Gardner, who, a year or two ago,
published a newspaper in New Zealand, is about to
start a journal in Tombstone, Arizona. There are one
or two other journalists in this part of the world who
might appropriately start a suitable journal in Tomb-
stone.
Mr. J. W. Walshe, one of the traversers in the
late Irish State trials, has arrived in Melbourne as the
representative of the National Land League. Mr.
Walshe comes chiefly to recruit his health, which has
been very bad. He will shortly address meetings in the
South.
Parnell wanted to enlist the powerful aid of
Victor Hugo and Eochefort in advocating Ireland’s
rights; but the Eoman Catholic Archbishop of Dublin, in
a pastoral, denounced the latter as “atheistic infidels,’’
who had plunged their own unhappy country into the
deepest misery.
Mr. Morehead, the Queensland Postmaster-
General, said at Mackay that he joined the Ministry to
emphasize his disbelief in the charges against the
Premier. Now, Morehead, though larky, is known to
be a man of the strictest integrity and nice honor. So
this was worth something.
A novel by an Australian authoress, Mrs.
Campbell Praed, is reviewed very favorably. The scene
is laid in Queensland. “An Australian Heroine,’’ issued
about twelve months ago, and written apparently by
'the' same pen, is mentioned as the better work of the
wo, though both are clever.
One of the private bailiffs of Her Majesty Queen
Victoria was the other day fined for allowing pigs to
stray,—and, as Sir Garnet Wolseley was recently
mulcted in the sum of ss. for keeping two unregistered
dogs, it’s tolerably clear there’s not much either in
being a monarch or a general.
Louise Michel devotes from 3 to 5 each afternoon
to receiving the poor, the working classes, hearing
what they have to tell about their troubles and dis-
tresses, which she tries to alleviate when possible.
When she talks with you she looks you straight in the
eyes, with a very frank and earnest expression.
“Mrs. Henderson,” the consort of Henderson
of Ferret notoriety, is, it would now appear, the wife of
Merle, a Liverpool business man. By the way, Hender-
son the other day attempted to break out of gaol, but
was detected before he had managed to complete the
first instalment of his preliminary task—filing through
the bars of his cell.
An aged blind man, Old Sam, who has for years
lived by selling matches in Wagga streets, died in the
hospital there on Sunday week. It is stated that he is
the father of a well-to-do person in Wagga, and the
hospital committee intend to apply to that dutiful son
for a refund of expenses incurred. They manage filial
relations better in China.
The World states that “ the Earl of Kilmorey
who as Lord Newry has long been recognised as one of
the brightest and most intellectual of our golden youth,
is about to be married to Miss Nellie Baldock, a young
lady of much beauty and many accomplishments,”
If the noble lord is one of the “brightest and most
intellectual” of British •’ Golden youth,” people in the
colonies will be apt to form a very low estimate of the
class. Lord Newry’s visit with the Duke of Edinburgh
is fresh in the memory of thousands. Those nice little
cockfights behind the Melbourne Club, &0., &c.
It is said to have been Ay 1 ward, the Fenian, who
suggested to the Boers the appointment of a corps of
crack shots for the sole duty of picking off the English
officers. His argument was that an English officer is
usually a man of good social connections, and when he
falls, there is sorrow in homes high up in the social
scale. The fall of such a man, in fact, tells wonderfully.
The Boers might shoot common soldiers to the crack
of doom, and the ruling classes wouldn’t care a tinker's
curse. There’s evidently more philosophy in Mr.
Aylward than you generally find in Irishmen.
Mr. Thomas Cornish, formerly of Ballarat, and
well known in Melbourne of late years in connection
with the invention of life-saving apparatus, has gone
from London to the African gold coast, to examine and
report upon a mine, and has received a handsome fee
for so doing. Mr. Cornish’s life-saving invention was a
commercial failure, but (as “ iEglea ’’ observes) had he
invented something to destroy life—a dynamite bomb,
sure to kill an emperor or an emperor’s enemy at a
thousand yards—he might now be a millionaire.
Gambetta, the other day, in addressing the
University students, declared Auguste Comte the
greatest thinker of the age, and went on to congratulate
is hearers on having abandoned the spiritual view of
things for positive science. When the greatest man of
the Eepublic speaks thus, it is no wonder that Matthew
Arnold, “ the apostle of sweetness and light,” in writing
the other day to a Sydney gentleman in regard to our
education question, said : “ The real conflict of the
Catholics at present is, however, with ‘ Positivism,’ as
in France; not with Protestantism, as amongst our
people.”
During the hearing of the Lament will case, in
Melbourne, one witness swore that Mr. James Smith,
the well-known journalist, told him that he could never
write so fluently as when aided by magnetic forces, and
that he had been successively Moses, Elias, John the
Baptist, and Shakespeare. Mr. Smith is well known as
the prince of Australian journalists. He has been
editor and is a principal leader-writer of the Melbourne
Argus, one of the most welcome contributors to the
Victorian Review, which many people believe he
practically edits. He is, moreover, editor of Melbourne
Punch. His pen is equally facile in every department
of literature. Mr. Smith is besides a perfect eneyclo-
poedia of information and master of many modern and
dead languages. He is profoundly versed in theology,
and has been successively Christian, Freethinker,
Spiritualist, and Pythagorean. Whatever he has be-
lieved to be the truth, Mr. Smith has tried to act up to.
He is probably the only man in Australia, probably in
Christendom, who fairly acted up to his Christian
belief. A few years ago he actually sold all that he had,
and gave the proceeds to the poor. When the evidence
of Spiritualism convinced him, he declared his faith
like a man. We have heard that he claimed that what
he wrote was not his own. He merely hel c the pen.
It was moved by spirit force, and what was written
was new to him when he read it. His articles
at that time had a remarkable peculiarity. Mr. Smith
always used one size and style of ruled post. The
“ leaders ” written by his hand commenced invariably
at the left-hand corner, top line of sheet No. 1, and
concluded exactly at the right-hand corner, bottom
line of sheet No. 3, never varying an inch, and making
always an equal measure of print. He is a grand man,
and may be excused for imagining that his work has
emanated successively from Moses, Elias, John the
Baptist, and Shakespeare, for the construction of his
own mind includes many qualities which he supposed to
have been characteristic of those personages. But now
for a few airy stanzas: —
From the Paris Eevue Politique :—“ Alone
of all his race, perhaps Alexander 111. is chaste, and be
has always been so. He has often manifested, in his
own family, his profound repugnance _to irregular
conduct. Those who were brought up beside him affirm
that, as a child, he never told a lie, and he carried so far
his scruples of frankness that, at the moment of
marrying, for political reasons, the lady who had been
engaged to his brother, he did not conceal from her that
he loved another lady, the Princess M., who became
subsequently the wife of the rich Mr. D. This con-
fession, for that matter, had its echo, because his bride
did not conceal from him that she had passionately
loved his brother. Nevertheless, they have creited a
model household, surprising in concord and persevering
affection.” Really, after this we are bound to believe
that Alick No. 3 is a George Washington and Simeon
Slytites rolled into one.
The Grand-Duke Nicholas, sentenced to im-
prisonment for life in the fortress of Dunaborg, was a
bad egg, even for a Eomanolf. He is a son of the Grand-
Duke Constantine, and a nephew of the late Czar, and
was in trouble about stealing his mother’s diamonds a
few years ago. The parting between him and his
mother when he was carted off is said to have been most
affecting. A Grand-Duchess, you see. But there have
been a few other affecting partings between mothers
and sons during the late Czar’s reign in Eussia.
Proctor could probably tot up the total it he gave his
mind to it.
Mr. Hugh McPhee, a veteran school teacher, of
Kangaroo Valley, and formerly of Tomerong School,
died on 27th May at the ripe old age of seventy-five
years. Mr. McPhee, who was a bachelor to the last,
was first appointed school teacher during the year of
the great famine (1839), and proceeded to his destina-
tion, Guntawang, in the Mudgee district, via the Great
Western road, when the journey from the metropolis to
the scene of his future labours occupied from six weeks
to two months. It was the “ intention” of the Govern-
ment shortly to have pensioned him off for the
remainder of his days.
It is now stated that Captain Paul Boyton, the
celebrated swimmer, was not killed at the taking of
Lima, and that, though a prisoner of war in the hands
of the Chilians, he is safe and sound. While acting as
superintendent of Peruvian torpedo operations, he
undertook to make a swimming reconnaissance of the
enemy’s fleet. He was perceived and fired upon, and
had to take refuge in a cave upon the coast, where he
passed some time without food or drink in the company
of several seals. At nightfall he struck out for Callao,
which he reached at 5 o’clock next morning and found
in the hands of the Chilians, who took him prisoner.
In the big slander case at Melbourne, the
plaintiff is Mr. Maurice Brodzky, late of Sydney, and
the defendant the Eev. Eabbi Blaubaum, of St. Hilda.
Of course there’s a woman at the bottom of the affair.
Plaintiff, it is said, was engaged to be married to the
daughter of a wealthy Jewish citizen, and he alleges
that the rev. Eabbi, in addition to blighting his chances
so far as his intended bride’s father was concerned,
made certain unfounded reflections on his character at
a meeting in the synagogue. Messrs. Purves, Dwyer,
and S. S. Topp have been retained by plaintiff, and
nearly all the Hebrews in Melbourne will be subpoenaed
on either one side or the other.
The Duke of Manchester recently refused to be
the guest of a total abstainer. Could his Sydney
experiences have been of a painful nature, we wonder P
Colonol Scratchley can’t go to inspect the
Queensland transcontinental route in a private capacity.
If the Governments of the colonies will give him leave
of absence, however, he is willing to rake in the extra
“ honorarium.”
The Herald’s correspondent had an interview
not long ago with Mrs. Henderson, of “Ferret”
notoriety, and speaks of her as an “engrossing" per-
sonage. Could the writer —like Sir Joseph Porter —
have once been
“An office-boy in an attorney’s firm,” ?
Dr. Angus Munro, formerly of Melbourne Hos-
pital, who only recently succeeded Dr. Hutchinson as
resident surgeon at Wangaratta Hospital, while out
during Sunday night lost his way in the darkness, and
was drowned in the backwater on Kangaroo Plats.
Miss Munro, his sister, and a little girl who accom-
panied them, were also drowned.
Herr Most discharged “ most” varied functions
as editor of Freiheit. There was nothing connected
with the little sheet —from writing the leaders to setting
the type, turning off the paper, or receiving the three-
halfpence charged for it—that seemed above or below
his dignity. He used to sit at a table in a “ first-floor
front,” in Titchfleld-street, surrounded by all the
necessaries of a “ weekly” of very limited circulation ;
and he was always ready to talk to inquirers and give
information regarding his doctrines. The “ first-floor
front” served him as printing and publishing office and
residence combined. What an invaluable man for an
up-country rag Meinherr would be!
THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL
Big Hop-Bitters sensation on the tapis.
At Gympie, quartz-mill feeders work twelve
hours a-day !
Fifty tars have taken “ French
leave” of Earl Clanwilliam and the De-
tached Squadron.
The Graftonitea want to light
their town with gas instead of, as at
present, with kerosene.
It is thought that the diamond
drill will prove of great service at Char-
ters Towers, owing to the comparative
flatness of the reefs.
The Sorata leares dock at Mel-
bourne on the 20th. The total expendi-
ture on her is £50,000. The wages
alone amount to £7OOO.
The infantile Chinese small-pox
patient is convalescent. All the in-
habitants of tne quarantined premises
have been re-vaccinated.
A Southern paper says : —“ It is
now stated that Bechet, who was re-
cently convicted for arson, has been
convicted before in Europe.”
The Pakeha, brig, Karpara to
Lyttleton, N.Z , has been wrecked oh
the 90-Mile Beach. Of a crew of seven,
only one man, named Christian, was
saved.
The grand Juvenile Industrial
Exhibition at Bathurst, under the aus-
pices of the local School of Arts, will
be opened on 2nd November. More
than 8000 copies of the schedule have,
we learn, already been distributed
through the colonies.
More than 30 youths, employed in
the establishment of Messrs. Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Haymarket, have
been compelled, in consequence of the
enforcement of the compulsory pro-
visions of the new Education Act, to
leave business and return to school.
The production of tin ore at the
Wild Eiver, N.Q , is increasing at a
wonderful rate. The great drawback
hitherto has been the want of a good
road to take down tin, and bring up
machinery. The Heberton Tin Co. have
sent a large party of men to repair the
Port Douglas road at a cost of at least
£lOOO. This is real pluck and specula-
tion.
In the case, Eomberg v. Chris-
tian, heard at Charters Towers, and
affecting the proprietorship of a portion
of the celebrated Day Dawn mine, the
defendant (for whom appeared Mr.
Horace Tozer, the well-known mining
lawyer, of Gympie) was successful. A
local paper says that all the Towers
gold is going in law, and that the place
is full of lawyers.
At Wilcannia, Alexander Eobin-
son was found lying in a paddock, two
razors, clotted with blood, by his side.
He was moribund, and died before the
man who found him could fetch the
police. He had used both razors, had
cut through his wind-pipe, and as
nearly as possible severed his head from
his body. He was a native of Scotland,
57 years old, hard-up, and had been
drinking—though not immediately be-
fore the act.
Sydney University annual com-
memoration —16th July.
At last a practicable route has been found to
connect Grafton by railway with the table land of
New England. Mr. Warren, Government Surveyor, who
has just passed over the route pointed out by Mr. H.
Quinn, and advocated by that gentleman for a number
of years, speaks very highly of it, and considers that
the coat of construction will not exceed two-thirds of
the last Government estimate. The distance is 85
miles.
The Maryborough (Q.) brewers are at logger-
beads. One firm offered by advertisement £5O to any-
one who would find chemicals in their beer. The
opposition man took the matter up, got an analyst to
certify that there was coccnlus indicus in the liquor,
and claimed the money—which his rivals decline to pay
on the apparently very reasonable ground that there is
nothing to show that it was their beer which was sub-
mitted to analysis.
As has already been stated, the No. 1 North
Phoenix Company, Gympie, have declined the offer of
£lOO,OOO, made on behalf of a Sydney company, for
their mine. At the meeting Mr. Harrison said he
believed Mr. Lansell, of Sandhurst, would give £150,000
for the property. It was also stated that the No. 7
Monkland had paid £130,000 dividends out of 400 feet of
ground along the line of reef, while the No. 1 Phoenix
had 885 feet along the line.
Mr. Fitzgerald has 100 acres of cane in full crop
on the Johnstone river, N.Q., and there are 150 acres of
scrub cleared ready for next season’s planting. In
March and April there were 94 inches rain on the river,
45in. falling in the last week of March. The cane is
described as the finest beyond comparison yet grown in
Australia. There are from 25 to 45 canes on the stools,
and “ you cannot make your fingers meet round the
big yellow.” The alluvial soil on the river ranges from
10ft to 25ft in depth. The northern rivers are well
worth the attention of Sydney capitalists.
The latest from Herberton is that a Port
Douglas chemist, who is a J.P., had jumped portion of
a site selected by the inhabitants for a School of Arts,
and had begun to build thereon for himself a shop. On
a recent Saturday night the miners rolled up to con-
sider the matter. The upshot of their deliberations
was that they went in a body to the allotment, lifted the
chemist’s edifice right off the blocks on which it stood,
and shifted it —and its owner—into the main street. A
petition that the chemist’s name may be removed from
WITH APOLOGIES (IN VIEW OF JURIES OF FOUR) TO THE HEIRS (IF ANY) OF HOGARTH, DESIGNER OF
“MARIAGE A LA MODE” AND
“THE RAKE’S PROGRESS.”
What! Has the world gone crazy quite ?
And James! art thou phrenetic,
That thou canst not thy copy write
■Without those taps “ magnetic P ”
Say ! ere into a 11 dear friend’s ” book
Thy “ knife ” goes to the hilt.
Must thou for “ spirit flowers ” look.
Or see the table tilt ?
And yet to think through thee have writ
Both Moses and Elias !
Then through the Age, it does seem fit.
Should belch forth Ananias.
When John the Baptist tried his hand
(On locusts he did lunch).
Say— did he benefit the land
By writing things in Punch ?
And Shakspeare, now, come tell us, Jim,
What work did poor Bill do ?
Not surely, write those things so " slim,”
Yon sign in “ the Review.”
But no more chaff.—Dear Jim, adieu!
Our lines these spirits sever!
As James we loved—as Moses Phew !
We must Lamont thee ever.


SINGER'S SEWING
THE
8
( INGER MANUPACTUI
Have opened a D«
SYDNEY. AT No. 1 DA
HARBOUR ST]
SINGER’S SEWINC
lllustrated Price List s«
SINGER’S SEWING
BEST TERMS TO WHOL
INGER’S SEWING
Write for address of n
INGER’S, THE BEST
Have received 160 First j
Singers sewing
Ten per cent, for
SINGER’S, BEST FOE
SINGER’S MEDIUM MAC
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d.
SINGER’S THE BEST
See the New No. 4 1
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
SINGER’S, THE BEST FO]
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
SINGER’S SEWING
HAND OR TREA
SINGER’S The BEST. Th
MACHINE—Light to Work,
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. €
SINGER’S, THE BEST
LEARN. New Improvement
SINGER’S SEWING
lnstruction Free to all
SINGER’S, THE BEST I
Sew finest muslins and 1
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Prici
SINGER’S THE BEST and ]
Will last a lifetime in ©
SINGER’S SEWING
_ ADDRESS : T
SINGER MANUFACTURI
No. 1 DARLING STORES, Ha
8
INGER’S SEWIN (
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Haymt
have been appointed agents f
machines.
Call and see them—Mouth
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for ca
SINGER’S SEWING M
8
.INGER’S SEWING MAGI
and CO. onlv recomtnem
Remember, there is
GER MACHINE. is, e t
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S MACHINES-
applies to the Genuine M i
CO., Agent, 353, Georgn-slrect.
SINGER’S MACHINES.—
Cast ir.in imi-ations. On
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
INGER S SEWING MAC?
ments with the Singer
8
8
INGER’S SEWING M;
cent discount for cash, ■ r oi
Jl LUNEV —From J URNh
GEORGE STREET, oppos
8
.INGER’S SEWING MACt
but 160 FIRST PI
LUXURIES WITHIN THE B!
Whbn you ask a friend to visit you the first impression he rece
is one of comfort, abundance, and even luxury. But the
impression is produced is almost incredible. The first thinj
FIBRE MAT for which you paid 2a. Passing on, the next thr
3s. 3d. per square yard, or a FLOt ECLOTH which only costi
his HAT (a STIFF FELT it may be at 4s. lid., or a SILK
putting his 7s. fid. SILK UMBRELLA on one side, he make
(price 4e. 3d.) into the Drawing Room. Here a rich BRUSSEI
like all the foregoing, at
ANTHONY BORDER
PALACE EMPOF
HAYMAKKIT (ONI
The cost of this was 2s. Bd. per yard, and there is also a HEAP
such a room are amply supplied from the same source. T 1
STOOLS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, and CUSHIONS beautiful
that the CANVAS and WOOL came from
ANTHONY HORDERN
whose prices are below those of the Wholesale Houses.
As the morning is the time he arrives, the hostess (in a <
or FRENCH CASHMERE, procured at the
PALACE EMPO
and made of the very newest shade of colour) leads him into tl
TAPESTRY, at Is. lid per yard, and his eyes alight upon the
cost about half what they would anywhere else, surmounted by
costing only ss. 9d. each, with BRACKETS to match at a smal
tastefully executed OLEOGRAPHS and ENGRAVINGS, gla
the trifling expenditure at which these additions are made he
this apartment, he walks across a CHINA MATTING 36 ii
Dining Room, where the dazzling magnificence, combined w
attire (which latter has now ramified into a thousand novelties-
times) well nigh eclipse the more sombre requisites of every
at 4s. per dozen; TABLE DAMASK for extension at la. 4
ordinary sized table, at prices varying from ss. fid. to 225. (
Antimacassars, all hand made, at from Is. each ; and the Cur
per pair, but the Applique are 15s. On retiring to rest he finds
ANTHONY HORDERN
supplied the SHEETS, the BLANKETS, the QUILT (one ol
SILK DOWN—delightfully soft, light, and warm), the Grocke
Fancy Soaji, of which they have a pleasing variety. In fa(
G
REAT CASH CLEARANCE SALE
OP
BOOKS, FANCY GOODS, and STATIONERY.
REBUILDING OF PREMISES,
16 AND 18 HUNTER STEET.
The present buildings being not large enough for the
rapidly increasing business,
Messrs. Turner and Henderson,
have made arrangements to rebuild (with great
alditions) and to save expense of remoyal of stock, they
offer the Whole of their Fine Stock of Books, Station-
ery, and Fancy Goods to the Public at VERY LITTLE
OYER COST PRICE, and in some cases UNDER
COST.
TURNER and HENDERSON,
16 and 18 HUNTER STREET.
O T I C E.
PISCADO-BUENO-Y-BARATO.
The New South Wales Fish Company (Limited) beg
to intimate that having now overcome all difficulties
as to cold storage, they are able to keep a large and
varied stock of FRESH FISHES ready for sale at a
moment’s notice.
CHOICE FISH, 6d per ft.
MIXED FISH, 4d per ft.
(all ready cleaned for the cook)
SMOKED FISH, 8d per ft.
and
ROES of delicious flavour, lOd per ft.
They also keep a large stock of live and dead
POULTRY, at lowest prices.
TEEMS, CASH. TEEMS, CASH.
No delivery beyond the city.
Delivery made to carriers before 6 p.m.
A GRAND DISPLAY ON FRIDAY MORNING.
A CARD.
JJR. STANICH, the eminent OCULIST and
AUEIST, is now on a professional visit to
Queensland, For further Particulars ride
Queensland papers.
fJIHE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY.
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.
INTER
We have at present a nice snp
seasonable goods:—
Girl’s Waterproofs and Long J
ii Hosiery, Gloves and Woi
Ladies' Long Jackets and Wat<
Ladies’ Skirts—Pelt, Alpacca,
Ladies’ Hosiery, Gloves, and V
Ladies’ Lined Kid Gloves—Pui
Our own Registered Glove
2 Button 4Bi
In the Shop 2 9 a
Posted 3/- 4
JOHN B. YOU
656 GEORGE STR
Just below Liverpool
GOOCH A. N D 1
(Prom London an late with
HAIRDRESSERS AND W
Importers and Manufacturers
21 HUNTER STRI
BETWEEN GEORGE AND P
SYDNEY,
IJNION LOAN AND DISCO
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STR
3 doors from A. Hordern
Honrs—9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PE
security, payable by instalments, as
£lO by weekly instalments of
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
the list of J. sP. is now going round for signature. It
appears, however, that the chemist is legally—though
not morally—right.
Two Ministers gone to Grafton.
oMhe V Sc 1 re k® B k® en appointed secretary
An arcade, to cost .£50,000, will shortly be
erected at Adelaide.
Nebo goldfield is utterly overdone. Great
misery is likely to ensue.
The Ballarat Stab has been bought by Mr.
Ball, backed by Mr. Chirnside, for £3300.
Wright, Heaton, and Co. have bought Moore’s
Labour Bazaar, Pitt-street, for £27.900.
There is a strange epidemic of suicide by poison-
ing among young women in Melbourne.
The Day Dawn claim. Charters Towers, when
in full work, can turn out 6000 oz, a fortnight.
The inquest on Buckley, who drank himself to
death at a city public-house, is still proceeding.
Mr. John Hurley has succeeded in floating a
London company to work the Burrum (Q.) coal
deposits.
Last escort took 20,7850 z. gold from Charters
Towers, and 27440 z. from Eavenswood. Total yield
from the Towers for the half-year, 47,3600 z. —a con-
siaerable increase.
• £ h « Rev - Mr - Kemmis says that “ ten minutes
m the back garden with a man who could use his fists
would be a very effective means of stopping the mouths
of slanderers and evil speakers.”
The Princes are being extensively feted at I
Adelaide. The Speaker gives a dinner, and balls will be
given by the Governor and the Mayor. The distin-
guished visitors proceed overland to Melbourne on
Monday.
“At Warmambool, Father Henneberry, the
temperance apostle, led a procession of converts from
alcoholism a mile long through the town.” This is
taken from the Evening News. What a fine town
Warmambool must be!
An old Frenchman named Lergreveau, who had
been committed to gaol for protection, died at Adelong
the other day of lung disease, while in prison. The
nr old man was confined in a badly-ventilated cell four
beneath the ground I
Butler, the sensational N.Z. criminal, acquitted
some time since of the murder of the Dewars, which
was no doubt committed by him, and subsequently
sentenced to fifteen years’ gaol for burglary, has
murderously assaulted a fellow prisoner in Lyttleton
gaol.
A disappointed lover was brought up at Mel-
bourne, the other day, for threatening conduct. “ Her"
father complained that she was worried out of her life
by the discarded one, who put a knife up his sleeve
significantly, slept on the door-step, tapped at the
window at three in the morning, followed the young
lady into the ‘buses, and was generally a nuisance
Six months' gaol.
A woman, named Elizabeth Hughes, aged 33,
committed suicide at Collingwood, Melbourne, on Sun-
fiav- After quarreling with her husband during a
drinking bout, she kissed the children and said she
would see them no more, as she was going to take rat
poison. Hughes, at this time was asleep, and when he
arose in the morning he found his wife dead, and a glass
containing the dregs of a dose of strychnine by her
side.
During 1879, Queensland produced 233,710 gals,
spirits from 526,783 gals, molasses. She also made from
cane 18,714 tons sugar, and 641,486 gals. rum. In 1870
she exported her first sugar—a ton and a-half; last
year Bh ® ® x P orted 5072 tons, and this year she will
export 8000 tons. In 1879 there were 17,652 acres of
cane growing, of which 12,029 acres were crushed. This
year returns will show 20,000 acres under cane, and in
L v^Z earB that amount will probably increase to about
35,000 acres, with a yield of 50,000 tons, worth £1,400,000.
Mr. Charles M‘Evoy, a well-known Melbourne
young blood,” last week applied to the Melbourne
Court of General Sessions to quash a maintenance
order obtained against him by his wife Mary M’Evoy,
formerly a barmaid, on the! ground of adultery by the
iatter. Several witnesses were produced to support the
allegation referred to. Applicant's story was as fol-
io*B “ Charles Edward M’Evoy, stated that he was
18 years of age in 1873. He was drunk that time. He
was on the spree. Got married at that time. Sold his
stations. Went into horse racing and lost all. An
order for four guineas a week was then made against
•IS.’ 1C “ he P* 44 for three years. Was now living
with his mother, and had no source of income what-
ever, except what his friends gave him.”
Charles Turner and Tom Reynolds, the Coen
prospectors, have returned to Cooktown after 10
absence. They report having got alluvial in
quantities snffieient to pay for mere “ tucker,” and say
that, after months of labour and privation, they came
across a reef 7ft wide, sft of which will, according to
trials, give an average of 3oz to lOoz per ton—soz for
certain. They have brought with them 561bs stone,
which will be forwarded to Brodziak and Co., of Sydney
for treatment, and they would have brought more but
for having lost their best horses at the hands of the
niggers, by whom Reynolds was wounded, and with
whom they had a big reckoning. The country near
their last camp is described as being a perfect network
? f ,? 014 ; bear i?<f reefs. There are also silver lodes and
indications of copper. The distance from Cooktown by
the present track is 220 miles. The Coen, in their
opinion, will yet be a splendid reefing district. It has
nne flats, and valleys aud steepes of rich loamy soil
with grass all the year round.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ We thought everybody knew a little
about the libel law by this time. Before one
writes it is well to read; so ere you again flourish
your "Mackinnon” kindly look up the law re-
port “ Argus ”: Eeceived “ Wide Awake " :
In such matters you should be good-natured. We
cannot afford to be otherwise “ Crabtreeße-
ceded '•Subscriber”: Thanks. However, we
don’t deal in such things •• W. S.”: We don’t go
bald-headed for the publicans or any other class
‘Julia B Thanks “Zephyrns”: (1) In such
cases you should give tolerably full information and
send your name. (2) You should have let ns into the
secret of your joke about the dog. The general public
wouldn’t understand it, though the Mudgee public
“Please Forward,” &c.: Notin our style. .
“More Solemn Facts”: Received “ Old Roaster ”:
Declined. Nojoke.no interest “X.Y.Z.”: Eeceived
thanks..,...” Pepper and Salt”: Evidently malicious.
......“ C.J.": (1) The fastest recorded time in Australia
fora mile was done by Briseis in 1 min. 43 1-5 secs.; for
two miles, Darriwell in 3 min. 30 1-4 secs. In England,
Buccaneer is reported to have run a mile in 1 min. 38
secs. (2) Elias Laycock is a native of Sydney and is 35
years of age. Michael Rush was bom in Ireland and is
aged 36......“ A.S.": The man who would seriously for-
ward such a contribution should odd another “ S ” to
his name “ Badger " : Thanks “ P.A.P." : Next
i asne “ARM.” : A double entendre, harmless
enough, it is true, but only of interest to those im-
mediately concerned “ T.” : Send us something
original next time. But if yon must send an extract,
send it in print—it’s a deal plainer than your hand-
writing “W.H.8.” : Much obliged. Sorry that
existing circumstances prevent us from printing your
communication in globo “S.H.L.”: Eeceived
“Magpie": Received—declined, no joke “J.C.":
Before publishing such matter as that contained in
your third paragraph, wo mast in all cases have the
name of our correspondent “ P.T.” Many thanks.
In type, but crowded out at last moment; next issue.
“G.H S.": Received.
In view of the warnings conveyed by the events
of yesterday it is, we hear, quite on the cards that the
Government will not only specially quarantine the
houses actually infected by small-pox, but that they
will also take steps to place each of the districts in
which the disease has appeared within a cordon sanitaire.


J^EW
THEATRE
Proprietors, Messrs.
ROYAL, BRISBANE.
THYNNE and HICKIE.
Open to treat with STARS and ARTISTES of
acknowledged ability in every line of business. Seating
accommodation—l4oo.
HOUSES furnished at the Central Furnishing
Arcade, on Time Payments. 29, 31, and 33 Park-
street.
H. LEVY & CO.
WE repectfully invite the public to visit our
Show Booms, Central Furnishing Arcade, 29,
31, and 33 Park-street.
H. LEVY & CO.
WE Furnish Houses from ,£lO to J6lOOO.
Central Furnishing Arcade, No. 29, 31. and 33
ark-s treet. H. LEVY and CO.
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, New
Buildings, Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
This establishment is now open, replete with every
requisite for household furnishing, together with a
large and extensive department solely for crockery and
glassware. H. LEVY and CO.
HLEVY and Co. beg to inform the general
• public that they have now completed their large
FURNITURE ESTABLISHMENT.
Nos. 29, 31, and 33 Park-street.
R. LARK!
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND QIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N.
BRANCH STORES—
*B Qeorge-street West (late P arramatta-screet),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Bariev, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Sfibit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &o.
l^B.—Ordersby_post punctually attended to. POST
” ~ able
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
rjl HOM A S WEBB & SONS,
BOND-STREET,
Beg to inform their customers that they have JUST
OPENED a LARGE COSSIGNMEh T of
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, and
Also,
TEA SETS.
FANCY CHINA
AND
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invited.
JJEW PUBLICATION.
WILL SHORTLY BE ISSUED,
a New Work, entitled,
"KING HENRY THE NINTH;
OR, THE RIVAL WATER SCHEMES,”
a Comedy of Errors;
by
M. J. KEOGH.
Price One Shilling.—Orders all booksellers.
JBERNASCONI,
• Carver, Gilder, Picture Frame Manufacturer,
347 Pitt-street South, between Bathurst and Liverpool
streets.
Old Frames re-gilt, glass re-silvered, oil paintings and
engravings renovated and restored
Ladies’ needlework neatly stretched and framed.
A splendid assorted stock of the very best mouldings,
ex “ Camperdown," suitable for framing oil paintings,
oleographs, chromos, drawings, needlework, and text-
cards, &c.
A few copies of the now favourite oleograph, entitled
*• The Baby Wakes,” of which J.B. is the only holder.
m
o
r
FOB GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INSTRUMENTS
PIANOS. ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENEBBEIN, Jun.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
MR. GEO. S. BA6OT has been appointed
agent for The Bulletin at MarrickvUle, Stan-
more and Enmore.
HAYNES and ARCHIBALD.
RINGBARKING ON RUNS.
WHEREAS it is alleged that certain holders
of Pastoral Leases to whom permission to
ringbark has been granted, are ringbarking trees of
a description excepted from such permission or outside
tbe limits to which such permission applies, and that
other holders of Pastoral Leases, to whom ho such
permission has been granted, are ringbarking trees
upon their respective runs, it is hereby notified that,
unless snch holders of Pastoral Leases desist from such
ringbarking, proceedings will be at once taken against
them.
(Sigd.) E. A. BAKER.
Minister for Mines.
Sydney, June 2nd, 1881.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
S
T
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s 6d per week.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT.
HE LIGHT RUNNING STANDARD.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAT MARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
The wonderful wertheim
SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
vary fine double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, qnilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OP
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OP COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT,
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OF CHARGE. Price lists and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY, George-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony you
live, we will supply you with a WERTHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT, WITHOUT
INTEREST.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
“HOME” SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
yVIVYvIJ)
o
s
c
r*
$
*
1401*5;
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OP
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
20,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3.—Machine ns above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian ** Home ” Shutt-e
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we wiU
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
tsr LOOK FOR THE NAME 1! I
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-street South.
s
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Oeorge-street South.
JJRITISH
PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Oeorge-street South.
P
APERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Oeorge-street South.
W
HITE LEAD, OILS, COLOURS, CEMENT
&c., &c.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 839 Oeorge-street South.
P
LATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Oeorge-street South.
Q.R E AT
JEWELLERY SALE.
WATCHES, CLOCKS, AND JEWELLERY
At LESS than COST PRICE,
Owing to intended Extensive Alterations.
A. J. HUFTON,
636 Oeorge-street South.
rjIHEATRE ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Acting Manager Mr. G. L. Goodman.
THIS EVENING, JUNE 16,
last night hut one of the Dramatic Season, COMPLI-
MENTARY BENEFIT to Mr. G. L. GOODMAN.
Acting Manager, for the first time in Australia
THE LOVING CUP, and ALL THAT GLITTERS
IS NOT GOLD.
Grand inauguration of the
ENGLISH OPERA COMIQUE SEASON,
under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrave.
First production in Sydney of
LA FILLS DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, George-street, where
seats can be secured for the dress circle, and stall tickets
obtained.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
QAI E T T THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
General business Manager Mr. L. M. Bayless.
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
and
GREAT SUCCESS
of
Mr. WYBERT REEVE,
as COUNT FOSCO.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) and TO-MORROW NIGHT
(Friday), Wilkie Collins’ Marvellous Drama
THE WOMAN IN WHITE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 18. Sardou’s great Play,
DIPLOMACY,
Box plan at Messrs. Nicholson’s and Co.’s, 325 George-
street.
Private boxes, £2 2s; orchestra chairs, ss; balcony,
2s; pit. Is.
Manager for Mr. Reeve ...Mr. W. J. DODGE.
JgYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
GREAT SUCCESS. GREAT SUCCESS,
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
M*LEAN’S DRAMATIC TROUBADOURS,
in
CONRAD AND LIZETTE
CONRAD AND LIZETTE
CONRAD AND LIZETTE
with new songs and dances.
T© conclude with
PATCHWORK; or, HAMLET ON A STRING.
SATURDAY JUNE 18,
the Comic Opera, in 2 acts,
H. M. S. PINBE H I N D,
written expressly for the Troubadours by Mr. Linklator.
Doors open 7.30; commence 8 sharp.
Prices—Dress Circle and Orchestra Chairs 3s. Stalls,
25.; Pit, Is.
goHOOL OF ARTS.
EDWARD 8. WOLFE General Manager.
THIS EVENING,
Re-appearance of
R. B. LEWIS'S
MASTODON COLOURED MINSTRELS.
Every Act new. Every Song new.
Every Dance new.
Be sure and see the
GREAT MOGULS OP MINSTRELSY.
The King LAUGH-MAKERS and MONARCH of FUN.
J. R, MATLOCK, in his Character Song, “ TRAVEL-
LING BACK TO DIXEY.”
KEENAN and MORTON in their
SILVER CLOG DANCE.
A Laughable Farce, entitled,
A VISIT TO THE WAXWORKS.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is. -
NFANTS’ HOME, ASHFIELD.
Under the Patronage of His Excellency the Governor,
Lady Augustus Lostus, Commodore Wilson,
and Mrs. Wilson.
THE ANNUAL DRAMATIC PERFORMANCE,
under the Management of Mr. Rainford,
in aid of the Funds of the above institution, will take
place on
THURSDAY, 30th JUNE. INSTANT,
at 8 o’clock p.m.,
AT THE SCHOOL OF ARTS.
COMMITTEE: S. C. Brown, Esq., M P„ Hon. F. M.
Darley, M.L.C., W. L. Docker, Esq. Carl F. Fisher,
Esq, M.D., W. Laidley, Esq., G. E. Labertouche,
Esq., Hon. H. Moore, M.L.C , Hon. Professor Smith,
C.M.Q., His Honor Mr. Justice Windeyer, G. F.
Wise, Esq. (with power to add to their number.)
Tickets, ss. each, to be obtained from the Committee,
and from the principal music warehouses, drapers, &c.
A limited number of tickets will be available for the
gallery at 2s. 6d. each.
J. ARTHUR DOWLING,
Hon. Secretary.
R
EPETITION
of
Mendelssohn’s
“ELIJAH.”
SACRED CHORAL ASSOCIATION.
Principals, Chorus, and Orchestra.
ST. JAMES’ SCHOOL-ROOM,
MONDAY NEXT, 7.30 p.m.
Limited number of cards. Reserved chairs, 2s. 6d.,
at Paling and Co.’s, and Bullard’s, George-street.
Professional Addresses
MISS MYEA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October —Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
M
M
E.
M.
S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
E. AND MBS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu Wae).
ON TOUR:
Imperial Hotel, Adelaide, till 21st June.
Western Australia to follow.
LATE THEATRICAL.
The theatrical week closed, so far as we are in
this issue concerned, with Miss Annie Taylor’s benefit
on Tuesday night at the Koyal, when the performance
consisted of a comedy and a farce—both by the late
John Baldwin Buckstone. “ Married Life,” the first of
these plays, is an exceedingly farcical production, and
contains incidents which would furnish the prolific
author of “ Our Boys ” with material for half a dozen
of his slender pieces. That Miss Annie Taylor could
have chosen a comedy more suitable to her particular
powers than is “Married Life" we think probable,
but, nevertheless, she evinced much judgment in select-
ing a piece which, while it offered a fair show to her as
bensficiare, suited the other members of the company
admirably. But, while Miss Taylor had not perhaps aH
the scope that her friends might have desired for her
in “ Married Life," as Nan, in the farce which followed,
she found a character which fitted her like a Jonvin
glove, and secured, in consequence, quite an ovation
from the numerous audience. In some parts of " Nan,”
so amusing were Miss Taylor’s antics that the audience
positively rocked with laughter—a certain learned judge
in the circle growing at times quite hysterically merry.
Miss Taylor, during the course of the evening, was the
recipient of many handsome bouquets; therefore, it
will be seen that though the action of the audience was
Searl-y in one sense, it was not so in another. We
trust our readers will be able to see this piquant joke
without the aid of a piece of smoked glass. We cannot
-this week afford the space to explain it.
* * •
In “ Married life,” the acting all round was ex-
■cellent, and all worked hard to make it a success—the
Prompter harder than anyone. As Mr. Coddle, Mr. E.
. Shepherd shone like a new dollar, and the Lyonel
Lynx of Mr. Titheradge was an excellently well-
balanced performance. Mr. Prank Cates as Mr.
Tounghusband had a good chance, and availed himself
of it to the utmost, playing throughout with finished
atsistic excellence. Mr. Garner was rather feeble as
Dismal, and Mr. Richard Stewart had a part after his
own heart as Dorie. The ladies—bless their hearts !
y-' « all good. Mrs. Marion Stammers (who had a
spiendid reception) played Mrs. Coddle with remarkable
ability. Indeed we never remember having seen this
lady play a part badly, and to her was unmistakably
owing a very large share of the success afforded the
London Comedy Company in its entirety. We under-
stand that Mrs. Stammers joins Mr. Wybert Reeve
shortly, and there is no doubt that she will be a great
acquisition to that gentleman’s (as, indeed, she would
Be to any company). Mrs. Gordon was amusing as Mrs.
Lynx, and Miss Alma Santon made a capital Mrs.
Tounghusband.
« « «
The farce went as smoothly as a temperance
pitch by Mr. John Davies—and was almost as funny.
The entr’actes, it is true, were a little long, but as the
band pounded away meritoriously during the intervals,
we suppose we ought not to complain. And this is all
we have to chronicle—excepting, perhaps, that the want
of bills was more than atoned for by the pretty smiles
and pretty dresses of the heroine of the evening. The
reception accorded her was only what she deserved, and
the way the civil servants mustered in the circle must
have been highly gratifying to the management. Their
applause, too, was so liberal that during the evening a
wag remarked that it was the first time in all his ex-
perience that he had seen so many Lands Office clerks
on such cordial terms with a—tailor.
• * •
At the Theatre Eoyal, Melbourne, on Monday
night. Signor Nobili, the well-known operatic manager
(formerly landlord of the old Garrick’s Head Hotel,
Bourke-street), was sitting, in company with two ladies,
near the Governor’s-box, when his wife, from whom he
lives apart, entered, and in true pugilistic fashion
assaulted one of the ladies, who was taken by surprise.
She shrieked, and buried her head in her lap. Mrs.
Nobili was dragged off, and taken away amidst a scene
of groat confusion. The dress-circle was well filled.
* * •
M'Lean’s Troubadours have been giving a
version of “ Conrad and Lizette” during the week.
This was Baker and Farron’s trump card, and was
Farron away the best thing they did. As presented by
the Troubadours it was funny. And the fun began early
and came often. The first taste was when a small-boy in
the most innocent of wigs drab small-clothes and gaiters,
red waistcoat, cutaway coat and a snub nose, came on
as old Joel Fuller, and was gravely addressed as
"Father” by that buxom beauty, Emily Fox, who played
Lucy. No one could help expecting momentarily that
the comparatively gigantic daughter would take up her
parent and nurse him. She didn’t though. W bat she
had to do mostly was to sit on a chair and look nice,
and she succeeded very well. Sammy M’Lean had the
duty of wearing a pair of coffee-colored pants wrong
side foremost, a delicate touch of humour in which he
also succeeded very well. The Lizette was Nina Tul-
loch—who submitted to be made love to by Conrad—
(Salvator Parlato) with considerable self-containment,
although there was just a soupfon of “ I hate boys" in
her demeanour under the trying circumstances. Master
Salvator redeemed the performance, however, and so
justified his name. The youngster is a born mounte-
bank. He was funny all the time, and filled the stage
whenever he was “ on.” The audience got hysterical
about him, and his talent would probably suffice to
carry the weight of half a dozen melancholy trouba-
dours, male and female. If fairly put to it, we should
judge that he would succeed in imparting a twang of
vivacity to an infirmary funeral promoted by ten medi-
cal men.
• » •
Dillon appears at the Queen’s on Saturday. Oh
be-lud, be-lud I
• * *
Mr. G. H. Goodman’s “ ben.” comes off to-
night (Thursday), when “All that Glitters is not Gold”
will be the piece de resistance. We have not heard
whether or not a presentation is on the tapis this time,
but we hope one is. Nothing will please us more than
to see G. L. strike a couple of pickle-forks or a plated
rusk-jar. , * *
Saturday will be a red-letter day in the annals
of Sydney theatricals, for on that evening the run of
“Tambour Major" will be inaugurated. We are glad
to see our very own Samuel once more holding the
managerial “ ribbons,” and hope the opera (which is a
big /renturo) will prove as successful here as it did in
Mr hiiorne. We shall give our readers a full notice of
••' hanour Majour” in our next issue, and shall, if
pos-Sble sp-i-arkle. When we do get a good thing to
write about, you know, we can—but there ! —modesty
has always been our failing.
• * •
The Lynch Bellringers have had big houses at
'Tamworth.
* * *
The “ Stray Leaves” Company play at Gundagai
this week.
• * *
J. L. Hall opens at the Opera House on the 25th.
“ Sour Grapes ” has been posted as the opening per-
formance.
» * •
The Adelaide dailies, especially the Eeoisteb,
-were very “ rough ” on W. H. Leake on the occasion of
his opening night.
♦ ♦ *
Edwin Kelly is the Major-General, Lester the
Pirate King, and Emma Wangenheim the Mabel, in the
.“ pirates of Penzance,” Brisbane.
* ♦ •
The fine performance of “Elijah” by the
■Sydney Choral Association, at the Masonic Hall, on
the 6th inst., is, we are glad to hear, about to be re-
peated. Many who were unable to attend last concert
will now have an opportunity of hearing this charming
work. Tickets —reduced in price to 2s. 6d. for reserved
chairs —are selling well, nearly 300 out of 400 to be
issued having already been disposed of. All the princi-
pals have promised to sing again, and the 100 vocalists
of whom the chorus is to be composed, will be assisted
by an orchestra of 20 picked performers, including
Messrs. Francik, Wilcek and Glfickmann, of the late
Austrian Band. The Society’s efforts to stimulate
the public taste for good music should be largely
Seconded.
* * *
In the theatrical line we are continually hearing
at English companies. Now, this is a fair question:
TT
ow many of the members are English, and how many
are colonial ? And how many of them, being colonial,
know the English P
• * *
The committee of that most deserving institu-
tion, the Asbfield Infants’ Home, announce a dramatic
performance for 30th inst. at the School of Arts.
Seats should be taken early. The advertisement
appears elsewhere,
Onr portraits of the Turners in last issue were
from photos, by Boyd.
A young lady, the other evening, kissed in the
dark a young man whom she mistook for her lover.
Discovering her mistake, she said: “ It's not he, but
t's nice."
Mr. Simkins came in the other other morning at
three, and informed his wife that burglars had stolen
the key-hole, and necessitated bis getting in through
the cellar window.


ymtc
)i|
H'i H f f 7 ;i»i
fsliE
srvm
n
389 G
OTJE Stoi
have
OUE HA
from
POW
IF reqaei
whici
ticula
OU
are the h
aware
AS show,
chine
BOU
comn
MAN
WE have
very 1
Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORTER
EASTERN AND COM
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments
in receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Meds
CHUTN1ES —Indian Prizt
PRESERVES —Indian Pri
COPPEE —Plantation No.
Do. „ Pea
Do. „ Noe
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Plake and Pe
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Bla
OPPIC S 79 YORK i
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BP
"JOHN D .
IMPOETEE OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswn
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric B
Butchers’ Brine Pu
Iron, Brass, Copper, '
and Lead Pipe, &c
119 LIVERPOOL STEEET,
_ 235
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL . aC
ALLWOOL
ToJWEED
Miscellaneo
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
H E B B L E If
416 GEORGE STI
, Dispense Prescriptions chea
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English pt
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponi
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS’
Send for a Price List. Country
ally attended to. Don’t forget
Ton cannot mistake it —
Opposite Hordern’s New B
w
K I
MANUFACTURING .
WATCH AND CLOCI
664 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s (
Medals of every description. Mast
sentation Trowels designed a
Premises.
DIAMOND SETT
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, Iron
STREET S'
TAILOR
C||
ON’S STEEL,
OTTON BELTING,
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IEEIGATIN
Engines and Boilers of all si
Jack Cbabs, Cbanbs, Bellows, F<
IN STOCK.
E Y E S
PERFECT
FUB1
N on-poisonous ! Non-corrosive ! Agreeable. The greatest Ai
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for houi
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnongh,
for my throat I could not desire anything more effect!
Purifier. From. L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, S'
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. NewU
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and cleanm
From Mr. H. Meads. Sydney .—My child had sore eyes for 2
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Lawrence
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fru
Purifier is unrivalled. „. TIT
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, S;
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agent
ER & CO.,
r-3
CO
SOvS
JMPORTANT
GLOYE, HOSIERY
SHOE WAEEH
12 Hunter-street,
J. M. ELLEEC
(Many years with
Farmer and C
Desires respectfully
the inhabitants of £
the suburbs that h
chafed the old-establ
ness of Messrs. Parrc
J. M. E. is now <
sale the whole of tl
stock for CASH at i
Against t
E. Habpei
Manilla
were a-v
Teh Firs
and
M
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition J udges’
Report says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up.”
[R & CO.,
n
Ml
i
OQ
c
-<
1 1
AMERICAN MACHINE
H. P. GREGORY AND
No. 11 PITT STEEET,
IMPORTERS of ALL DESCRIPTION of MAORIS
