

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7—No. 90.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1881.
Price—34.
bulletin.
SATURDAY. OCTOBER 15, 1881.
The Heel of Authority.
It tends to undermine journalistic morality, and
to to sycophancy the prosperity and influence
which should bo the meed of independence and
public spirit. It is thus that despotic rulers used
to hold out inducements to men to become panders
and lickspittles. It was thus that entire nations
have been emasculated and corrupted- It is by
such devices that, even at the present day, the
meanest and most unworthy under despotic
Governments are encouraged to aspire to the
highest positions, and that an elevated nature
involves a life of hardship and misfortune.
* * * ;ir '
The Treasurer’s petty reprisals upon the
Evening News furnish the best possible justi-
fication for the precedent strictures of that
journal upon his administrative acts. No states-
man of large mind and broad conceptions
would have stooped to so paltry a revenge. Only
a man of limited capacity could have failed to
perceive that to resort to such an expedient would
be merely to emulate Dogberry, and write down
his quality, of his own motion. The move is an
impotent one, because the public support is,
after all, sufficient for the Evening News, and
Mr. Watson’s maintenance in power, however
protracted, cannot endure sufficiently long to
materially affect the relative positions of rival
newspapers. To show a malicious purpose is to
let the world know what most men would be
sagacious enough to wish to conceal respecting
the defects in their disposition. To thus expose
oneself,' without effecting the object aimed at,
amounts to a display of inability to com-
In Russia, when a newspaper ventures to say
anything which is displeasing to the Government,
the authorities simply deprive it of the right of
publishing advertisements. This deprivation en-
dures for a period proportioned to the indignation
of the Government, and is a moat effective way of
bringing the Press under the heel of authority.
Human nature is the same all the world over, and
it now appears that the Colonial Treasurer has all
the disposition, and only lacks the opportunity,
to emulate the practice of the Ministers of the
Autocrat of All the Russias. The Evening
News has come under the ban of Mr. Watson.
Our contemporary has evinced a spirited indepen-
dence in its political criticisms, and has shown no
inclination to act as the Government toady, like
one of its daily rivals, nor to mince its opinions,
and cover up any adverse comments in a mantle
of mild commonplace, like another.
# * *
It has been impossible for any independent
journalist, if endowed with the capacity appropri-
ate to his position, to avoid noticing the dispro-
portion between the very responsible and onerous
duties whieh belong to the Treasurer of the Colony
—and which especially have fallen to the lot of
the present holder of the portfolio of finance, in
consequence of the Premier’s variable health —
and the abilities which Mr. Watson brings to
the discharge of his functions. The administra-
tive insufficiency of Mr. Watson, the exagger-
ated importance with which he addresses himself
to small affairs, and the inaptitude which be has
exposed for comprehending the scope of large
matters, and for acting with deliberate and com-
petent vigour in emergencies, have forced them-
selves upon the notice of all honest and capable
commentators on passing events. Nobody will,
we think, suspect The Bulletin of working on
an understanding with the Evening News, yet !
the tone of both journals has been almost identical |
with respect to the shortcomings of the present
Treasurer.
### , .
It is scarcely credible, therefore, that the stric-
tures of the Evening News have been merely
captious ; and it may reasonably be inferred that
they have been fairly evoked by circumstances,
and published in honest and simple discharge of
the duties proper to an independent journal in a
free country, enjoying Responsible Government.
It is surely inconsistent with the cherished prin-
ciples of free speech that a newspaper should, for
the mere offence of not regarding every imagin-
able topic through Governmental spectacles, bo
punished by fine and forfeiture. Those are what
the arbitrary withholding of Government adver-
tisements actually to. It has been
through no undue favour or improper influence
that such public announcements from Depart-
ments other than the Treasury have hitherto
been advertised in the Evening News. It has
been simply the outcome of ordinary business
principles. The extensive circulation of the paper
has indicated it as an efficacious and appropriate
channel through which to convey to the public
such information of a business nature as it was
desirable, in the interests of economical adminis-
tration, to make widely known. To withhold
advertisements is to avenge a personal
mortification, regardless of the fact that the public
good suffers thereby. A considerable proportion
of Government advertisements issued oy the
Treasury consists of invitations for tenders of
various descriptions ; and it is obvious that the
wider the publicity given to these, the greater is
likely to be the competition, and, consequently,
the more extensive the choice, and the lower the
margin of profits to be extracted from the public
funds.
* * *
This, however, is but one, and that one, although
the most obvious, not the most important, aspect
of the affair. To go thus outside business prin-
ciples, and to deal out Government patronage
according as a newspaper is servile or independent,
is to sap the most vital and valuable principles of
public journalism. Itis a shameful thing to see any
man occupying a post of dignity and trust, pervert-
ing his delegated powers to a course calculated to
make servility profitable, and to place honest
journalism at a disadvantage. The refusal of
the Treasury advertisements to the Evening
News is tantamount, in fact, to fining that jour-
nal the sums which it would have earned had it
been more complaisant, and had it passed over
the shortcomings of the Treasurer with discreet
servility. But the injury goes further, and gives
to less public-spirited rivals a formidable advantage
by conferring upon them a monopoly of conveying
to certain classes information which it is service-
able for them, in their business, to know. This is
an insidious and dangerous approach to corruption.
prehend the relation between causes and effects.
These revelations are, combined, sufficient to
demolish, once and for ever, the claims of any
individual to bold a position as a leader among
men.
Mr. E. B. Woodhouse, J.P.
Edmund Bingham Woodhouse was born at
Coowong Station, in Eiverina, 12th December,
1852. He received his education at Scots’ Col-
lege, and completed his studies under that
talented instructor, W. J. Stephens, M.A.,
formerly head master of the Sydney Grammar
School. Mr. Woodhouse is the eldest son of the
late Mr, Edmund Hume Woodhouse, and is
lineally descended from the ancient and noble
house, Schuldham, of Marlsford Hall, County
Suffolk, England, whoso descendant, Mr. George
Marriott Woodhouse (the grandfather of the sub-
ject of this notice), was one of the pioneer colonists
of New South Wales, having landed in Austra-
lia, by H.M.S. Dromedary, in the year 1810, with
Judge Ellis Bent, to whom he was attached as
Judge’s associate. In 1846, the late Mr. E. H,
Woodhouse embarked his capital in squatting in
Eiverina, which, at that time, was regarded as
the remote interior ; and, having amassed a large
fortune, he, in 1860, sold his properties, and
resided near Sydney. Subsequently he purchased,
in 1867, the estate of Mount Gilead, on which he
expended a large amount of money, with the
result that the property is now one of the most
valuable and|highly improved country estates in
the colony. A deer park, in which are fallow deer,
alpacas, etc., abuts the private carriage-road
to the homestead, which ia situated in a position
commanding a very extensive view of the
surrounding .country. The late Mr. E. H. Wood*
house (who died at Mount Gilead in 1875),
shortly before his decease, embarked in the
then highly profitable occupation of breeding
pedigreed stock, at which he achieved great suc-
cess. In this pursuit ho is most ably succeeded
by his son, the present proprietor of Mount
Gilead, who is an acknowledged authority on
matters relating to pure-bred stock, and whose
services at agricultural shows, as judge, are much
sought after. Mr. Woodhouse has been a most
successful breeder and exhibitor at colonial ex-
hibitions, haring frequently won champion
honours and obtained high prices for his
stock, notably for three animals at 1000 guineas
each. He also imported several choice cattle from
England, and more recently introduced at con-
siderable cost, from America, two of the most
valuable breeds of swine, entirely new to the
Australian continent. Though, comparatively
speaking, a young man, Mr. Woodhouse bears his
share of public duties. He was appointed to the
Commission of the Peace when 22 years old, was
chairman of the local Board of the Appin Public
School, under the Public Schools Act, and is
now a member of the local Board under the
Public Instruction Act: he a member of local
Boad Trusts ; a Sheep Director for the district;
is chairman of the Board of Directors under the
Pastures and Stock Protection Act; and one ol!
the trustees of the National Park. Mr. Wood-
house has also been appointed by the Government
of Victoria, a magistrate of that colony. At a
meeting of the Shorthorn Society of Groat Britain
and Ireland, on the motion of that well-known
breeder, the late Mr. T Booth, of Warlaby, Mr.
Woodhouse was elected a life member of the
society. He is also a life member of the Zoological
Society. At the inception of the Melbourne In-
ternational Exhibition, he was appointed by Sir
Henry Parkes one of the original commissioners
to represent this colony at Melbourne, and evinced
a deep interest in the representation of the colony.
Mr. Woodhouse married, in 187&, the eldest
daughter of Mr. William Neill, the popular
General Manager of the City Bank, Sydney.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Let there be no more Wine.”
The position of the Teetotal advocates throughout the
world is somewhat analogous to that of the Israelites
when they went to their work in the Promised Land.
They see an enemy before them, to be out down,uprooted,
and utterly destroyed. They will give no Quarter, and
offer no terms of truce. They know it is a great foe,
but have they not great hearts, and powerful weapons
in ever clacking tongues? The amendment in the
Licensing Bill, which will have the effect of abolishing
wine shops, and transferring the sale of this product
of native industry to the omnipotent “ public,** is an ex.
traordinary affair. It was carried by the most unnatural
of combinations —a combination of the publican party
and the teetotal advocates in the Assembly, The publi-
cans have all the best o! it, and ranst laugh in their
sleeves to perceive how the fanaticism of total absti-
nence has played into their hands, and obstructed the
straight path to general temperance. Could a taste
for wine he created in lieu of a craving for the coarser
and more powerful alcoholic stimulants, much would
have been gained. It seems a frantic thing for profess-
ing advocates of temperance to help to frame an enact-
ment which practically forbids working men to
drink of the vintage of the Australian grape,
except within a house, where the privilege
to poison is duly purchased, and all the
implements of the trade are ready at band P And this
will be one effect of our new and glorious Licensing
Bill. Immediatelg it takes its place in the Statute
Book, the Hew South Wales [wine shops will cease to
exist; and the man who has been accustomed to smoke
a pipe and drink a pint of wine in the evening, will be
forced to go (comfortless to his home, or to breast a
recking bar, and face a female of doubtful antecedents
but unquestionable future, who will fill his glass and
pocket the coin with an air of most supreme disdain.
That wine shops may have been abused we have no
doubt, but the proper remedy would surely have been
to regulate, not to abolish them. The teetotallers
have made a desperate error, an 4 have played inte
the hands of the bush publican. Wine and wine shop
need thorough reform—the cloven foot is at their doors
as the whole body of the beast Is within the legitimate
pub.; but they are mixed evils, and have within them
, the seeds of great and lasting good.
The Bishop’s Levee.
Never since the Princes were to fro to church, and
didn’t, baa St. Andrew’s Cathedral presented such as
uncomfortable condition of ram-jam as upon last Sunday
afternoon. It was duly advertised that Bishop Moor*
house would preach, and it seemed incumbent upoa
everybody to hear what Bishop Moorhousb bad to say.
The Governor and the Lieutenant-Governor, with all
their stately entourage, and members of Parliament,
and Justices of the Peace, and pillars ef the Church
and State without end, were stirred up— on this par*
ticular occasion chiefly, of course—to confess their
manifold sins and wickedness; hut when confession and
MR. E. B. WOODHOUSE, J.P.


Notice.
Should any reader observe that hia copy of The
Bulletin is this week not printed with the same
elegance as heretofore, we ask his indulgence. The
enormous increase in the circulation of this journal
has rendered it necessary for us to import new and
fast printing machinery, with which The Bulletin
has this week been printed for the first time.
We have had to contend with the difficulties usually
experienced under such circumstances. Little hitches
have perpetually occurred. Minute disarrangements
have thrown things ont of gear, and some sheets have
not the finished appearance which they will hereafter
present. Henceforth, wo have reason to hope, the
supply of The Bulletin will equal the demand—which
has certainly not been the case for many weeks past
our heavy issue having taxed to the utmost the large
resources of our obliging friends, Messrs. H. E. Woods
and Co. Any advertiser who wishes information
respecting our circulation, is requested to visit this
office and see the paper printed.
THE GENUINE A 1
HOP BIT
Manufactured fej
HOP BITTERS MANUFAC
ROCHESTER, N.Y
are a
MEDICINE, NOT
The above Company are well-i
originators of i
HOP BITTERS
The great boat race rowed on the
oessfully carried ofl
GALLANT LAYCOCK, o
HOP BIT!
are the
PUKEST, BEST, AND CHEi
EYES MAD]
They are compound
HOPS, BUCHU, MANURE
AND DANDEL
The Oldest, Best, most Reno*
Medicines in the World, and in ;
the best and most effective cm
all other Bitters, being the great
FIEE and life and health restor
REMEMBER THIS 1 IP 1
HOP BITTI
will surely aid nature in maki
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a
matic district, barricade your
scourge of all countries—malaria
and intermittent fevers—by the
EOF BITTE
If you are costive or dyspept
from any other of the munen
stomach or bowels, it is your o
main ill, for HOP BITTERS
remedy in all such complaints.
If you are wasting away with
disease, stop tempting Death
turn for a cure to HOP BITTE
If you are sick with that ten
vousness, you will find a “ Bain
use of HOP BITTERS.
In short, they cure ALL disea
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, K
JBSOO
will be paid for a case they will
for anything impure or injurioui
That poor, bedridden, invalid i
or daughter, can be made the p
a few bottles of Hop Bitters, coi
(WILL YOU LET THE!
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND EN
with
HOP BITT
and jo's, will have no siokne
Large square panelled amber cc
label with green Hop cluster on
of her.
Price ss. No other form, size,
A nerican Hop Bitters Mfg. Co., Bo
To be obtained at all Chemists ai
MONTEFIOEE, STUi
65 PITT STREET, SYDN
General Agents for A
OP. GRE G 0 1
• TOBACCO MANUFAC
RICHMOND, VIRGINI
have appointed us
SOLE AGENT
for the Sale of their TOBACCC
We invite particular attei
NEW IMPORTATIONS, JE
of
SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOK
bearinc our Bran
" ORIENT ’* and “ SOUTH
These TOBACCOS are made to oui
from the
CHOICEST VIRGINI.
and for delicacy of flavour are
Use Jaunasch’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
came, fish, milk, &0., sweet during the hottest weather,
by speedy and simple process; no deleterious chemical
used. To be had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt.— Advt,
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pn re
uncoleured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet. — Karl Theodore Steiger, analytical
chemist.”— Advt.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria,hfew South Wales, and New Zealand, Proceed-
ings wiU bo taken against any persona copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors sailing or offering for sale
watchas bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMEßlC AN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.-Acv.
absolution were ended, just aa a fillip to the feast to
hear the Bishop preach, it was a very pleasant thing to
see all thest netables suddenly filled full with the spirit
of devotion—bnt it was also exceedingly annoying to
the man who had paid for h’s scat to be uncomfortably
"squoze” even by a Vice-regal quarter, and more than
a little vexing to the people who give sixpence to the
church fund upon every Sunday afternoon to find that
upon this day their place was without the gate, their
•'betters'* being within. Alas! the humbug of the
thing! The choking, smotheri £g, poisoning hypocrisy.
Two pedigreed boys, or an eloquent man, elegantly-
attired, will bring these drones from their nests in
swarms, while upon any other day they will roll upon
their couches and drink good wine in the fulness of
content —and the undignified, but earnest, preacher may
eabort the "canaille" alone.
Efficiency in the Wrong Place.
As a general principle, an efficient police force is a boon
to be prized. But there are limits even to efficiency j
and when this sort of thing proceeds to unconscionable
lengths, even police efficiency is a development to be
carefully watched. Thus the case adjudicated upon at
tho Police Court the other day is deserving of attention,
os much in the interest of the public as of the police
themsolvee. We offer no opinion as to the merits of
the case in itself; hut, placing the facts as disclosed
in the evidence side by side with previous instances of s
like character, the uncomfortable deduction is only too
obvious. >fter midnight on S inday, two persons—a
lady and gentleman, one witness described them—were
encountered by a policeman, as they stood at a street
corner to wait for a friend. The guardian of the night
ordered them to move on, pushing them roughly as he
did so, and using unnecessary violence. A by-stander
remonstrated, and the same process was gone through
in his regard, with the embellishment, it is alleged, of
obscene language. Tho latter immediately proceeded
to the police office to report the matter, accompanied
by the constable; but, on arriving at the station, this
active and intelligent officer dexterously turned the
tables on his companion by pushing him suddenly
through the doorway, and promptly locking him up.
This melo-dramatio coup seems to have had the desired
effect. No complaint was lodged against the constable;
and, next day, the jvictice appeared at the Police Court,
to plead to a charge of drunkenness. The case, says
the report, was dismissed without comment by the pre-
siding magistrates 1 There is a bewildering embarrass-
ment of riches, in tho way of fertility of resource and
adaptability to emergencies, about tho whole proceeding
calculated, we fear, to sorely perplex the honest citizen.
He will scarcely know which to admire the more—tho
artful ingenuity of tho policeman, in so cleverly getting
rid of an inconvenient acquaintance, or the stolid self-
satisfaction of the Beneh which dismissed the case
"without comment," The constable’s evidence was
unsupported save by tho lame and conflicting state-
ments of some comrades who saw accused on his enter-
ing tho station; and tho gentleman’s evidence was
borne out by tho statements of his friends, who were
surprised at tho unexpected turn the affair had taken.
Perhaps, however, this is a case that had better be left
to the decision of Mr. Fosbert. There is ample scope
for the application of a little of the severity used in the
case of Constable Mulquin. This is not the first
instance of a state of things to which it mi ght be unsafe
more particularly to allude, but which, if allowed to
continue, threatens to become a peril and an annoyance,
to that portion of society which this “ Fourth Section”
was established to defend.
The Albert Victor.
Tuosb whom business or pleasure cause to go more or
leas frequently " down to the sea in ships,” will read
with special interest the account of the ill-fated Albert
Victor. Of course, everyone who undertakes a voyage
most take hia chance with the risks of the sea. But
the striking portion of the story of the Albert Victor
is not so much the disaster which happened it, as the
after circumstances. The elements of the story have
scarcely resolved themselves clearly yet, but further
scrutiny may hardly be said to improve this ugly busi-
ness. On the morning of the 21th September (says
Captain Brown, ''.of the abandoned barque), the vessel
was lying somewhere in the neighbourhood of Cape
Hawke, a dismantled hulk. Her masts had been cut
away, the foremast having gone by the board. A strong
gale was blowing, and in the face of a heavy sea her
position was anything but reassuring. At this juncture
another vessel —the Governor Blackall —came in sight.
Captain Brown signalled for assistance, but though her
companion remained three hours in sight, no help was
atforded, “ owing to the sea being too heavy, and the
coal in the bunkers insufficient in quantity.” This is the
captain’s explanation in Sydney. In the Brisbane
Courier, however, he writes, stating that he stood
towards the vessel, and had a careful watch kept up;
but no distress signals were visible. The captain of the
distressed vessel says that his visitor returned in the
evening, when he exhibited flash and blue lights; these,
however, were interpreted by the passing steamer as
‘‘signals of courtesy.” We recollect reading some-
where of a naval captain of the old school, whoso ship
—an old-fashioned, gigantic three-decker being
riddled by the enemy’s guns during an engagement,
calmly stood on his quarter-deck, gravely doffing
his fore-and-atter as the ruined vessel sunk slowly
downward through the waves. We thought that a
striking instance of nautical courtesy, we recollect, as
we read it; but the ingenious declaration of the gallant
captain of the Governor"Blackall discovers an instance
which leaves it far iu the rear. That the famishing
crew of a disabled hulk —for surely Captain Edwards
could see she was in distress—thould relinquish their
exertions for their own safety to salute a passing
steamer through mere courtesy is certainly a rather far.
fetched piece of politeness. Capricious courtesy, this
—or else dense stupidity on the part of the passer-by.
There is no duty more sacred than that which one
vessel owes to another in distress at sea. Away amid
the solitude of the waters, every chance of rescue or
assistance is merely adventitious, and it is Ja time-
honoured fancy of the stranded mariner to look upou
any indication of 'approaching help as a direct inter-
position of Providence in his favour. In such a junc-
ture humanity and the customs of the sea sufficiently
indicate the line of action to be taken. And neglect of
this is an atrocious dereliction of duty, as disgraceful
to the human instinct as it is revolting in its cruelty.
As we said, the facts of the Albert Victor case ar-c not
yet quite clear. Enough, however, has been elicited to
warrant an enquiry, as much in jnstioe to the captain
•f the Governor Blackall as in the interests of our
character for humanity.
The music at St. Mark’s, on Sunday, was so
g«od that it was felt quite a grievance that eneores
could net be demanded.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Free-selectors owe the N.S.W. Government
£10,000,000 sterling.
The S.A. Government have abandoned their
land and property tax scheme for this session.
A proposal to pay travelling expenses of mem-
bers of Parliament, has been negatived in the Tasma-
nian Assembly.
It was announced last night (Wednesday), that
Dr. Eenwick has been sworn in Minister for Mines,
vice Mr. Baker. This is anticipating Mr. Salomons’
report on the Milbnrn Creek affair, with a vengeance.
It is understood that the selection of Dr. Eenwick to
preside over the mining the Colony Is due
to his once having dug—a scalpel into a patient.
In the Assembly, on Friday, Mr. Buchanan
asserted that in Coonamble Gaol men taken in charge
were leg-ironed until the charge was heard before a
magistrate, and, if committed, were again ironed until
the trial took place. One man, he understood, who
was subsequently acquitted, had leg-irons on for several
weeks. To he in Coonamble Gaol must he nearly as
bad as being in Quarantine.
Tho N.S.W. Protection and Political Reform
League have received from the National Eeform League
of Victoria a congratulatory letter, written at the
instance f a meeting presided over by Mr. Berry,
the letter urges placing a check upon the wholesale
alienation of the public, estate. ” Payment of mem-
bers,” it says, " will be your first and best platform.
That obtained, it is a nowerful hold on such a body as
yonr League on tho;(Assembly. Protection will and
must follow.”
LATE SPORTING.
Glebe Strathmore C.C. defeated the Australian
C.C., at Camperdown, last Saturday, by 82 runs.
! At the Hippodrome, Aesenheim defeated
Weaver in the hour’s walk by two laps, covering six
miles ten laps in the time.
The latest soratchings for the Melbourne Cup
are Progress, Strathearn, Atlantic, Mowerina, gunny-
side, Darriwell, and Venom.
Private Asprey, G 5 points, was the highest
scorer at the October shooting of the Torpedo Eifle
Club, which took place on Saturday.
A match took place at Cohar, on Tuesday, be-
tween Dave Meehan, the pedestrian, and Prank
Arnold’s pony at 50 yards. Meehan won easily.
Balmain Waratah v. Newtown Marylebone C.C.,
on Moore Park, on Saturday, resulted in a win for the
former by 31 runs, .the scores being Waratah 72,
Marylebone 41.
Britannia v. North Shore Belmore C.C., on
Moore Park, on Saturday, resulted in a victory for the
former club by 24 runs ; the scores being Britannia
45, Belmore 21.
Santa Claus did a fine gallop at Caulfield on
Saturday afternoon, and has been heavily backed
for the Caulfield Guineas, the Caulfield Cup, the V.E.C.
Derby, and the Melbourne Cup.
The programme for Parramatta races, on 9th
November, comprises>ix events, including a handicap
of 100 sovs.. a hurdle race, and a weight-for-ago gallo-
way race. Entries close on the 26th.
The Ashfield Amateur Athletic Club’s sports
wore very successful, and so were the competing mem-
bers of the handicap committee, who held a very poor
opinion of their own powers, especially at the time of
handicapping.
There are ten trophies to be presented by the
Glebe Strathmore C.C. this season, Alderman E.
Fowler has promised two, valued at five guineas each ;
Mr. E. Small, one to the highest agggegate score ; and
Mr. J. Hart, one to the best average.
There is always some trouble at the Hunter’s
Hill sports. Last time, the visitors snorted because
they had to pay steamer fares; this time the arrange-
ments for their conveyance were very defective. Wo
understand that the club is not to blame.
It is the Museum plastering which awakens all
the interest now.
Alfred is satirical at times. Ho announces in
one par that he is going to supply his subscribers with
music, and in the next comments upon “ the influence
of music upon snakes." If Alt’s music be on a par
with his portraits, the influence of it upon snakes
should be very destructive indeed.
How the “oracle” is worked in some of the
village schools in N.S.W. The teacher sots himself to
work, and paints, and gets sewing done. An exhibition
is held, or the inspector drops in, and these specimens
are trotted out as the exclusive outcome of the local
juvenile minds. When the day of reckoning comes,
the teacher gains a few points in official favour, and is
in some cases called to a higher school. As a conse-
quence, the more modest and honest teachers—martyrs
to principle—are compelled to drag out an existence in
the poking and solitary hush-huts in the interior.
By the 30th clause, page 104, Mineral Lease
Eegulations of 1874, it is provided that prior abandon-
meut shall take effect from the date of publication in
Gazette. Hence the midnight practice of pegging out
at the earliest moment. lu our Northern Mining
District, not a hundred miles from Cope’s Creek, a
Magisterial cuckoo, equipped with a revolver and a
stop watch, recently succeeded in taking possession of a
miner’s nest, at the early hour of one second past
midnight. The mineral lease regulations and the
midnight cuckoo business surely need amendment.
THE NEWSLETTER.
Gussy, junior, has gone to Melbourne.
Tho bell(o) of Charters Towers is Ben A. Green.
The first number of the Australian Medical
Gazette has been published.
All the Victorian railway carriages are to be
fitted with Murray’s electric communicator.
There are ten medical students now at the
Sydney Infirmary. A nice school of medicine, truly.
It is reported that the Fijian natives are about to
petition for restoration of their independence. Tired of
annexation and Gordon.
A central telephonic office was opened on Tues-
day, at the Sydney Exchange, which is now connected
with the various wharfs.
That gay Commander who made such havoc
with the ladies’ hearts in Sydney,paid marked attention
to a fair cantatrice while in Brisbane.
The Evening Mail, the new half-penny paper,
to be issued by the Abgus proprietary, will in size be
only equal to four pages of the Adstealasian,
The Argus proprietary are going to publish
their new daily paper, the Evening Mail, at a half-
penny. It appears for the first time on 17th Oct.
Four lepers, it is said, in tho Parramatta Ery-
sipelas Hospital. And, by the way, the institution
named is not the only N.S.W. hospital at which ery-
sipelas is existent.
Mr. Powell, the new Collector of Customs, find-
ing that several of his staff are inefficient, has had them
called on to show cause why they should not be re-
moved from their positions.
Government has decided to pay tho permanent-
way men for eight hours at the same rate as they were
formerly paid for nine hours, as they do as much work
as ever. Here is an argument for the eight-hours’
system.
We have been favoured with an inspection of
Mr. John Sands’ admirable views of Australian
scenery, and reserve till another opportunity a notice
of them. We could scarcely do justice in a hastily
written paragraph,
Eichard King, of Teban Creek, has a crop of
cane, twenty-one months old, which averages twelve
feet in height and eight and a half inches in circum-
ference, estimated to yield 90 tons per acre, which, at
10s per ton, selling price, means money.
Shares in the Orange Meat Freezing Co. are
going off rapidly. When the two Lightfoot machines
ordered and on the water are going, the company will
be 'able to freeze 500,000 sheep a year—a number that
will very appreciably relieve the colonial markets.
At Maytown, Palmer Eiver, the Ida P.C. has
about 90 tons at grass, which is expected to go 4oz,
The Alexander reef is 2ft. 6in. wide, and will, it is
believed, average 4oz. A crashing of 200 tons will be
taken out, after which proper machinery will bo ob-
tained.
At Picton, on Thursday week, died Mrs O’Hehir,
at tho ripe age of 103. There was nothing remarkable
in the history of the old lady except the long term of
life she enjoyed, and the fact that for the last 34 days
of her existence she is said to have taken no sustenance
of any kind.
The Colonial Sugar Co. of Sydney have secured
the passage through committee in the Queensland
Assembly of a private Bill empowering them to do
business and hold land in that colony. They have to
expend £200,000 in five years, otherwise their land-
selections will be forfeited.
? One Patrick Moloney is sueing the Age for
f alleged libel in republishing an article from the S.A. Ad-
veetiser of Ist Oct., stating that Maloney was pro-
bably the leader of the alleged flllibnstering expedition
from San Francisco to Western Australia. Maloney is
[ at present living in Melbourne.
Mr. Call, P.M., of Melbourne, did not credit
the story of the girl Devries, who charged a young
constable named Harris with having attempted to
criminally assault her. He declined to issue a war-
rant. So her case will have to be dealt with by the
police authorities in a semi-private way.
I The explosion of 40 tons of gunpowder shook
• down houses situated three miles distant. There are
800 tons of explosives concentrated in Goat Island,
Spectacle Island, and the Hulk Behring, all within
three, and some within one mile from Sydney. The
Government have under consideration, &c., &c.
Close inspection of the rolling-stock of the
Hobson’s Bay railway since the Jolimont railway
disaster has resulted in 58 carriages being con-
demned and replaced by others. Several loco-
motives have also been taken off the line. £33,000
has been expended in replacing the stock, and
£50,000 more will be required.
j Alderman Meeks has submitted to the financial
’ committee of the Municipal Council a draft Bill to
amend the Sydney Gas Company’s Act. The commit-
tee approves the Bill, the effect of which, if passed by
the legislature, would be to ensure to the citizens in
future good gas and honest measure, an inspector of
meters, and examination of quality of gas, indepen-
dent of the Campany, being part of the provisions of
the-Bill.
There is an epidemic of disclosures relative to
the management of lunatic asylums. A big Victorian
asylum is found to be thoroughly disorganized, and
radical reforms needed. In consequence of the report
of a board of inquiry both the head-physician and as-
sistant surgeon of the Woogaroo (Queensland) asylum
have been called upon to resign. And it is only the
• other day that the superintendent of the Wellington
(N.Z.)asylum was dismissed for ill-treating patients and
j general mismanagement.
! The Cooktown Herald proposes that there he
formed in Melbourne a N.Q. Diamond Drill Co., capital
£2O 000 in twenty thousand £1 shares. This would bo
sufficient for 10 drills, and leave a reserve for expenses
and contingencies ; but only half would be called up, and
a start made with 5 drills—one for the Etheridge, one
for the Hodgkinson, one for the Palmer, one for the
country near the Conglomerate, and one for the country
northward towards tho Coen. As North Queensland is
the richest mineral country in Australia, such a spec,
ought to pay.
Tho increasing prevalence in N. S W. of hydatid
diseases was brought under the notice of the Medical
Society, the other night, by Dr. Milford, who read n
paper narrating the history of a case of hydatid cyst
successfully healed by him. The disease in question,
which medical authorities are unanimous in tracing to
tho tapeworm of tho dog, appears to have originated,
so far as Australia is concerned, in Victoria, in the
western part of which, especially in the Hamilton
district, hydatid of the liver and lung is often met with.
A pamphlet on the subject was some years since pub-
lished by the eminent Dr. S. Dougan Bird, of Mel-
bourne.
Tho new post and telegraph offices at Goulburn
are very handsome buildings. The train that conveyed
the Ministers to tho opening ceremony arrived with
that severe punctuality which is peculiar only to trains
that carry “ dead-heads." At tho ceremony, tho leader
of tho band showed himself to be a bit of a wag by the
peculiar appropriateness of the airs selected for the
occasion. When the police were endeavouring to keep
back those people who had no tickets of admission, the
band let out with " A policeman’s life is not a happy
one,’ and when the bigwigs were up aloft,where there is
a clock-tower but no timepiece in it, tho well-known
tuno of •' Grandfather’s clock ’’ ascended to the Minis-
terial ears from below. Press highly indignant at the
treatment its commissioners received at Goulburn—
‘ Someone has blundered.”
A Bachelors’ Hall is to be erected in Sydney.
We give this information for the benefit of young
ladies, who will, of course, not care to know that tho
precise situation is just at the top ©f Jamieson-street,
and that there is a charming bit of public reserve laid
out as a garden, which will be raked by the windows of
the projected building. There are just two things to
be done: first, persuade year brother or father to take
a few shares in the company—the prospectus is in an-
other page—so that tho thing may become an accom-
plished fact ; and, secondly, to work the oracle to have
that garden reserve opened as a place for tho fair sex to
promenade in. We believe that a parson is to be
always kept on the premises for the use of the bachelors.


American Waltham Watchea, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Anv.
SOCIAL.
The annual pic-nic of the Master Butchers took
place at Botany on Wednesday, the sth October.
At first, everything looked doleful and dreary : “ not a
drum was heard, nor a” —musical note of any kind,
as the line of vehicles proceeded up George-street,
in the face of a nasty drizzle and a cold southerly
wind. When a man buys a ticket, and he can’t get his
money returned, ho is bound to obtain what he can for
it; so over five hundred people went ont. Porter and
oysters brighten things wonderfully,“and when the
Young Australians at length uncorked the music in the
Pavilion, life seemed more rosy. There was little else
besides dancing, but plenty of that, and some over, in
the shape of a Highland fling by some small girls and a
hornpipe by a phonographer. At two o’clock Com-
pagnoui fed the multitude liberally; and the “ yahoos’*
who commenced to howl directly they consumed their
fodder did not do so because they had not had enough
but because they had had too much. The idea of eleven
toasts was so overpowering that the majority of people
felt it necessary to stampede, but fortunately orators
were scarce, and a lot was left unsaid. Mr. Sutherland,
on the political toast, characterised the present Parlia-
ment as the largest but most innocent that had yet
existed: he hoped numbers and innocence would make
up for inexperience, but wasn’t quite so sure about it.
Mr. Badgery, in proposing “The Master Butchers,”
made a spirited speech, the best of the day; and Mr.
D. O’Connor said that men who had risen from the
block and cleaver to seats in Parliament had no need to
be ashamed of being butchers. Score one there, Dan.
The applause sent Mr. O’Connor into the clouds, and
he opened his heart anent “our noble selves.” It is
evident we don’t cherish Master Butchers sufficiently—
we don’t know their real value. According to Mr. O’C.
they are not only the supporters of the Constitution,
but the noblest, cleverest, and purest-minded men in
the colony; their wives are the loveliest women on the
earth, and their daughters (here Dan's adjectives ran
short) are only a little lower than the angels. This was
about as high as the fervid orator could safely go, so he
mopped his brow, climbed down from his chair, and
went to engage a partner for the “ Prince Imperials.”
Now, Master Butchers are no doubt very good fellows,
and they support the constitution a good deal, but until
we heard Mr. O’Connor we never fully understood what
noble-minded individuals supply the chops and sausages
that adorn the matutinal breakfast-table. However, he
vouches for their high character, so it’s all right.
There’s no diplomacy about Mr. O’Connor’s speakings
he speaks too fast for that; it’s only enthusiasm ; but,
still, it is a strange fact that after that eloquent oration
he seemed to have all the prettiest girls in the place for
his partners. The “ talent ” were not entirely absent j
and, in the evening, the coffee-stand was pretty well
rushed, and those who could shove the hardest and
shout the loudest got the most. The imperturbable
old party, though, who bossed the tea-urn, firmly de-
clined to bustle himself, so much of the polite language
addressed to him was wasted on the desert air. The
racing was of a mild description. As the shops were
open as usual next momiug, probably most of the
Master Butchers got home during the night.
* • *
“Another unfortunate,” Mary Palmer,
described as a “ decent-looking girl,” was charged at a
London court with wounding her baby. The father
heartlessly refused to pay anything whatever towards
its maintenance. Slie was penniless, and shrank from
what she knew would be a useless attempt to expose
him; so she drew blood slightly from the baby, and
laid it in the street to watch, knowing somebody’s
compassion would be excited, and it would be saved
from the starvation which she could not avert.
Perhaps she had read the story of the infant Moses.
The device succeeded with the babe, but the mother
was charged ns above. And how did the case go ? Mr.
Poland and Mr. Williams, as public prosecutors, were
against her. For her upspoke no human soul.
Her only defence was her own heartbroken story,
told in an agony of sobs and shame; _ and
she was led from the presence of a Christian
court judge, jury, and public prosecutors, to seven
years’ penal servitude! The father goes free. This
girl was “decent-looking** when sent to prison; what
will she be when she cemes out at the end of seven
years? The two gentlemen who were public prose-
cutors would sit down to their walnuts and wine that
evening with easy consciences, knowing how well they
had done their duty, and earned their fees 1
• # •
The Rev. Father Henneberry, at Creswick,
Victoria, recently gave the origin of dancing, as
follows • “ When the devil was cast out of Heaven, he
dropped right down into Hell, but the paving stones
beine too hot for his feet, he commenced to hop and
skin about quite lively (whence originated the phrase,
‘dance like the devil,’) and ever since his imps have
danced jigs, polkas, and quadrilles.” However,
all the B C. ecclesiastics do not agree on this
noint We have pleasant recollections of carpet
dances given by a certain popular Geelong priest,
which were attended by parsons, not alone of his own,
but of other denominations. When Darlmghurst Hall,
in Sydney, was just finished building, some giddy young
people agitated for au opening dance, and wrote to : —
well, to the necessary High Authority, for permission.
The reply of the High Authority was substantially to
this effect i “ If you had had the dance and said no-
thing about it, I should not have said anything, but as
vou have asked me, I must, officially, say no.” But an
answer like this, given by a man whose every action is
canvassed, is very different from Father Hennebery s
ridiculous rant. Again, a popular C. of E. clergyman
who moves among the Jiaut-fon, and has the largest
crowds in Sydney to hear him, is by no means inclined
to shun the places where the saltatory pastime is
indulged in, but joins in it heartily himself. Of course,
there is objectionable dancing. For instance, if
Father Hennebery were to see how they do it at Cion-
mel, or Cloncurry, or Cion no, that s all,, we can t
recollect any more places—he might well call it danc-
ing like the devil.” But this is what dancing has come
to. not what it has come from,.
* * *
The exhibition and concert at Hordern’s on
Thursday and Friday nights drew au immense crowd,
which completely blocked the street, before the doors
opened at eight o’clock. _ The shop, or rather the “ em-
norium ” is a middling sized building, that is to say, it
is larger than a pill-box, though not quite so extensive
as Buckingham Palace; but it is not large enough to
li ve the discriminating Sydney public an entertainment
of any kind on the “free racket.” When the doors
opened, it was a frantic fight to get m a chaotic crush
when you were in. and gymnastics of the severest kind
to get out again,. To get upstairs was impossible, with-
out wings. To look at the goods, while you were being
flattened like a pancake, was equally impraotible. But
that didn’t matter much; they were nearly all young
people, and Adolphus doesn’t take Matflda Maud to
Hordern’s emporium to see the goods. Matilda Maud
without any Adolphus was there, in great force, too.
The girls never had a chance like it to do a collar
since the Garden Palace closed, and a good deal of
earnest attention was devoted to that interesting busi-
ness. , * •
A most aristocratic Brisbane pressman is
t hortlv about to be wedded to the daughter of a re-
nected clergyman. It is expected that there will be
inny observers present at this union of press and pulpit
A young fellow of Ararat (Vic.), had been for
• ome time engaged to a young lady, and the day was
i ted for the marriage, to take place in Melbourne.
1 falf an-hour before the ceremony, when the bride was
. adv dressed and the minister and bridesmaids actu-
.. lv in attendance, the bridegroom announced that he
l.i become enamoured of another lady, and declined
...marry the bride in waiting. It transpired he had
1 en carrying on a correspondence with both ladies.
• hen we heard of this piece of deliberate villainy, we
i'ought of something that might do that young man
, -reat deal of good—” It was the cat!
* * *
The new name for the Baroness Burdett-Coutts’s
1 i iband, in London, is Mr. Alphabet Coutts.
* * *
There are no fewer than 120 marriageable young
ties in Richmond. N.S.W.. and there is not one in
i . large bevy who is not well worthy of being married.
V iShttog y weight ranges from 8 st. to 14 st. Queen
.patra could not beat them for symmetry, nor could
' is surpass them in beauty; and yet never a lad
- „ Is up to woo them. Their household accomplish.
u g ajo innumerable, and each one can bang the
grand "peeanner" with the same ease and skill that
she can bail up a cow and milk it; and still the favourite
air of those damsels is, “ No one to love—none to
caress." There’s a capital opening for a good young
man up Eiohmond way.
» # #
At Armidale, Mr. and Mrs. James Tysoe will
shortly celebrate their golden wedding. The festival,
which is to be conducted in “ real old English fashion,"
will be the first of its kind in New Enghtni.
• * *
In England, the other day, in the Lamb breach
of promise case, a jury awarded that lady £lOOO as a
solatium for not marrying a curate. One of the papers
now suggests that curates should be exempt from all
the legal consequences of flirtation. It certainly does
seem somewhat hard that they should be regarded as
matrimonial game by mature damsels, for if they have
no incomes except the trifle that they derive from their
salaries, they would |do far better to remain single.
One disclosure in the curate’s letter to the fair Lamb
was certainly very amusing. "I know your age," he
writes to his inamorata, “ for I keep the parish register.”
If young ladies remember this, it may save them from
hazarding illusive statements in regard to their age
whenever the curate is playing lawn-tennis with them.
* * *
Atbelstane Range is the suburban sanatorium of
Rockhampton (Q). It has splendid advantages as a
place of residence. The temperature is several degrees
lower than that of the dusty and crowded streets in the
plains below, and an invigorating breeze sweeps on to it.
The panoramic view from Governor's Hill is just ex-
quisite: giant mountains, winding river, scattered
lagoons, woodland, lake, and hill, all combine to render
it beautiful. Ground there is rising in value, and
residences are going np rapidly.
* * *
“What Bishop are you going to hear?” was
what was asked last Sunday. There were not quite a
dozen to choose from.
* # *
The daughters of Mr. Kong Meng, the Chinese
millionaire merchant of Melbourne, were conspicuous
at the Hunt Club Eaces, Flemington, in dresses of puce
cashmere, with velvet sleeves of the same colour.
# * *
Last Saturday, at the invitation of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Hunt, some two hundred of their friends en-
joyed an afternoon trip down the harbour. The steamer
Quandong was chartered for the occasion, and after a
cruise round, the party landed at Hunter’s Bay, where
some indulged in vigorous sports, while others retired
to “ seats beneath the shade, for talking age and whis-
pering lovers made." Tea was served, sans ceremonie,
on board the steamer, which returned to town shortly
after eight o’clock,
• • *
Gibbs, Shallard, and Co.’s annual picnic was
held on Saturday, at Clontarf. Mr. J. B. Gibbs was the
chairman, and Mr W. Herbert proposed the toast of
“ The Firm." Naval Brigade music and City Catering
Co.’s edibles gave satisfaction.
« • •
At one of the Military balls lately given at
Portsmouth, the room was placarded with notices —
“ You are requested not to reverse.”
* * *
The last spec, in America is the matrimonial in-
surance game. Companies are established under regu-
lar charter, which pay.loo dollars down to every member
immediately he or she gets married. Clients pay four
dollars down, and every time a member is married,
there is a levy of one dollar on all the others in that
class (each class contains a thousand persons). A per-
centage for expenses is deducted, and the balance
handed to the fortunate one. This is a great en-
conragement to marriage, as each person on the com-
pletion of the “splice" not only gets the 1000 dollars,
but is relieved from the calls, or "assessments,” of
one dollar, continually made upon him for others.
Some of those who are slow to “ go off," have to pay
sometimes several hundreds of dollars in “ assess-
ments ” for the benefit of those who are more fortu-
nate in the matrimonial market. As the directors de-
duct from 10 to 20 per cent, from each 1000 dollars, it
is a paying game. The business is, moreover, quite a
legitimate one.
• • •
Rumour has it that a wedding is on the tapis
at Tam worth, between a leading business lady and a
gentleman of the Fourth Estate.
* ♦ •
A young widower was joined unto the daughter
of a local J.P., at Parramatta, on the sth, in the pre-
sence of a large gathering, in St. John’s Church. The
bride wore a white satin merveilleux, en Princesse, long
train, Maltese lace and flowers, and wreath. Two
Misses Dunn, and four Misses Harper were brides-
maids. The former wore shaded cardinal in ombre
satin merveilleux, and the latter, white cashmere, two
trimmed with blush pink, and two with pale blue.
There was a splendid display of flowers.
• • •
Two thousand five hundred guests were present
at the Hospital Ball, in the Melbourne Town Hall, in-
cluding the Marquis of Normanby, and many notables.
They have a Hospital Ball, and a Hospital Sunday in
Melbourne, which mean a good many hundreds into
the coffers. Why can’t we have the same? Is it be-
cause people are afraid of their money being applied to
banquets for the directors ?
• • •
Wednesday last was a big day in Parramatta ;
the occasion of the competition for the £lOO given by
Mr C E. Fuller, of the Mkbcuey, In the evening, he
entertained his staff and a chosen few at a banquet.
The comps, had arranged a neat programme of burnt
cork business, and erected a stage in the composing
room. After the funny business, dancing came on,
when the typos had to set to partners instead of type.
Printers evidently are not graceful dancers. They seem
to “ embrace” more than “dash” in this line. The
ladies carried away mementos of the occasion in the
shape of some odorous printing-ink on their white
muslins. # # #
Very likely many people never heard of Tronville
until “ Moths" was published, with Onida’s account of
the fashionable people bathing in their hitarre costumes,
like so many " striped pegtops ” bobbing serenely in the
sea; and yet Tronville is one of the most favourite re-
sorts of a certain class of wealthy society. Deauville
and Dieppe vie with it in popularity, and the dresses at
these places in many cases set the fashion. Bodices
made with full paniers, and of shot and watered silks
of such colours as blue and pink, blue and gold, green
and plum, are quite a feature in Dieppe toilettes.
Nearly every bodice terminates with full pamers,
the object being to make the skirt bouffant about the
hips. Many of the visitors dress in somewhat eccentric
style, such as red dresses and Yokohama hats, trimmed
with twine lace and a quantity of ribbons, flowers, and
seasonable fruits. One of the leaders of fashion at
Trouville often wears a poppy-red cotton dress, with an
ecru guipure sailor collar, a red velvet waistband, and
red velvet cuffs, with 6cru embroidery; a Yokohama
hat, worth 19 sous, lined with red, and trimed with 100
francs’ worth of lace, and enormous ripe red cherries.
A pretty Trouville toilette is in cigar-brown drouget,
the flounces bordered with plaid, and plaid silk sash
tied on the left hip; a small straw hat of the extinguisher
shape in cigar brown straw, trimmed with foulard.
At the ball given at Deauville daring the race week,
not one of the ladies who lead fashion wore any jewels.
The dancers all wore thin dresses, with immense hats
copied from old pictures.
* * *
There is great consternation amongst the belles
of the period, who, having reduced their garments to
the narrowest limits, find that veritable hoops are
coming in again. On dxt that the hoop-skirt manfac-
tories in New,York are very busy with orders from all
parts of the country. #
The Glenhead Football Club closed the season
with their annual picnic, on Saturday. Fern Bay,
football, rounders, dancing, good music, and pretty
girls all thrown in for eighteenpence 1
# * #
On Wednesday there were in the S. M. Herald
three solid columns of advertisements headed " Ser-
vants Wanted.” And only one servant announced on
the same day through the medium of the Herald that
she was ready to accept an appointment. We want
more immigrants. Sir Henry.
* * #
John Sands’ establishment also held its annual
corroboree at Pearl Bay, last Saturday. As we were
not there, wo can only report the affair in Daily
Telegraph fashion—" Everything passed of success-
fully.”
# # *
Mayoress of Adelaide gave a fancy dress ball,
on Friday, to some five hundred small people.
# * *
Some of the people up North read our account
of the Manly wild-flower show, and now they can’t rest
till they have a show at Wallaend. Winding Creek
and other small tributaries to Lake Macquarie are
lined all along the banks with flowers and bushes in
full bloom. It comes off on the 29 bh, and they intend
to make it a success.
* # *
After a lapse of several years, the Lady Godiva
procession was revived this year, in Coventry. Every-
one knows the story how—many hundreds of years ago
—her husband, the “ grim Earl," imposed a tax on
the people of Coventry that was tantamount to starva-
tion, and, upon their petitioning, the beautiful Lady
Godiva interceded for them. Bide you naked
through the town, and I repeal it," was the scornful
Earl’s reply. And she did it, on her white palfrey, at
high noon—“ she took the tax away, and built herself
ian everlasting name.” The townspeople have ever
since perpetuated the memory of her act by a mirmc
procession. 20,000 people witnessed this last one, and
Lady Godiva was personated by a Madmoiselle Minnie
Seymour, who was clad in a tight-fitting, flesh-coloured
suit, with short muslin petticoat, and rode a handsome
grey charger.
* # #
The visit of the Montague-Tnrner troupe to
Maitland created considerable stir in fashionable circles
there, and there was 'never a finer display of beauty
and drapery in the dress circle of the little Victoria
Theatre. We give a few notes. A fair young lady
wore pea-green satin, with lace bodice of maize and
trimmings to match, white flowers on neck and hair.
Another wore cream satin and cream lace, elbow
sleeves with lace quiltings, cream gloves, ivory fan.
Two youthful sisters were attired in maize-coloured
silk, with puffings of blue satin, white ruffling and
flowers around the neck, and blue forget-me-nots in
the hair, long maize gloves, white satin fans. A
bewitchingjlittle creature of eighteen,! wore a black
silk dress, elegantly trimmed with black satin and
beads, short sleeves, long white gloves, white flowers,
and modest jewellery, gold-leaved hair-pins in her
flaxen hair, Ac. Another young lady'wore a richpaleblue
silk, trimmed and ornamented with white pearl beads.
A tall, handsome lady wore a pink silk, richly trimmed
with real white lace. A coquettish blonde was decidedly
taking in a pea-green silk, with bodice of cream satin,
short sleeves to the elbow, killings of cream lace, pea-
green and cream chenille around the neck, white
flowers in the hair, white Poonah-painted fan, and
cream gloves. With sparkling eye, playful smile, and
wealthy father, no wonder she looked attractive.
Bather a pretty girl was faultlessly dressed in maize-
coloured satin, with deep white Maltese lace trr mming,
white ruffling and flowers. Two pretty maids looked very
nice in light green satin dresses, with cream-coloured lace
bodices and frilling of the same, white gloves, flowers,
fans, Ac. Their pa was present, which cast a gloom over
the whole proceedings. A well-known lady from down
the Hunter, wore a magnificent grey satin, laced with
silver cords, trimmings of Maltese lace, headdress of
silver-coloured satin and leaves, six-button white kids,
Japanese fan, Ac. Most of the ladies came with splen-
did bouquets, which, however, were often thrown by
tkeir admirers at the wrong time.
# * #
Whilst at Brisbane, the Wolverenes entertained
some ladies on board one evening, who had come down
the bay in the Kate (Government steamer). There was
dancing to begin with, and songs and danees by the men
after. One jig was too much for the Commodore and
Sir Arthur Palmer, who got up, snapped their fingers,
and danced opposite each other for nearly five minutes.
Fancy old Parkes or Berry doing such a thing 1 But
then Palmer always had an honest contempt for con-
ventionalities.
* * *
The young ladies of Lithgow are wise in their
generation. They wished to give the bachelors a hint
that a ball would be a good thing, and consequently
invited fhe eligible? to an evening party. They gave
them good mude, choice refreshments, and the charm
of their personal attendance, and the result is that the
dilatory male youths have accepted the situation, and
made arrangements for a return ball on Wednesday
next. Vive finesse.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nem-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ Much obliged for the sketch, which,
however, isn’t thoroughly successful “ A.8.C.”: A
good story ‘‘Stranger”: Thanks ”£.1.8.’’: Will
read and consider “Te Legend,” &c.: Unsuitable
"0.Q.”: Such subjects need handling very gingerly
indeed ” J.J.": Write again “Hermit” Thanks.
Asmodeus”: Very welcome “A. 8.”: Thanks;
will consider “ A P.”: Yes ; to rehabilitate the
character of the place, they’ll no doubt let it for
nothing for a time “W.8.J.": Thanks. We shall
try and use one “Wire Nail”: Not curious; time
precious—dust-hole—unopened “Ben. A. Greene”
(Charters Towers): Thanks. We will do wnat you re-
quire. We do not know whether Mat Eiley died in
Wilcannia, but believe not “A Eeadei” (Mary-
borough): If the sample you send is one of the kind of
“ jokes ” you will look out for us, you need not trouble.
We could get plenty of that in Holywell-street did wo
require it, but we don’t. If you can’t send something
that has general interest and is healthy in tone, save
your stamp; it might come in useful when the dickey
comes home “ X.Y.Z.”: We have boiled down your
item. Don't make them so long for the future, please.
We want to keep as much as possible of our stock of
coal for the winter “ Mrs. 8. A. Pike, Public School,
Fava ?”: Send correct address. A letter addressed as
above has been returned by the P.O “ Eeminiscences
of a Bank manager’s note book”: How can a note-book
have reminiscences ? Like the title, the matter is
spun out. Boil it down, don’t send such faint copy,
and we may be able to do something with it “ Cynic”
(Goulbum): Much obliged. Glad to hear from you
again “ A. 8.” (Sydney): Try some other style of
writing. What you send, though fair, is hardly in our
line “P.H." (Darlinghurst); Noticed elsewhere.
“ J.H.S.” : First item appears in another form. As to
the third, we know that all editors do such things,
except ourselves “Skeetur”: You will see we have
swallowed the lunatic, also the ancient family; but,
really, old fellow, that yarn about the school children
is rather tall, eh P “Meyrick E.”: It may be curious,
but won’t interest strangers. Besides, the story bears
a remarkable resemblance to Poe's tale of “ William
Wilson." Write on one side “ L.L.D.” :We are shy
about the lady item. Make sure that it would not give
pain, and let us know “ Felix ”: Why not send
name? “H. Ellis ”: See next week “Nemo”:
Only a poor weak woman “ G.D.”: Not much in it.
“ A.L.S.”: We shall be glad to hear from you.
However, on the present occasion you have neither sent
your own name nor that of the person to whom the
paragraph refers “May”: Harmless, but uninterest-
ing skits. Try and send us something worth reading,
even if it’s only a newspaper clipping “Q.W.S.”:
Held over “ E.M.H.”: Thanks “Eusticus”: Ee-
ceived "E.E.”: Poetry dealt with next week
“M.M.”: Next issue “ Paddy Murphy’’: Heldover.
“F. Hawkins”: You ask —“Can a chairman at
committee meetings vote on either side (other than a
casting vote) ?” Certainly not, unless a rule or bye-law
of the society in question expressly says so. In the
absence of any such by-law, he merely gives a casting
vote in case of the sides being equal. Therefore, at
the meeting in question the chairman acted improperly,
unless specially authorised to have voted by rule or
by-law of the institution “ Miser ”: Held over.
BRIEF MENTION.
Dr. Garran advocates Home Eule for Ireland.
That settles it.
How is it that we haven’t a Salvation Army ?
There’s money in it.
A strange mixture —stout-hearted philanthropy
and Dr. Van Heekeren.
Has Sydney Punch taken the Government
shilling ? It looks like it.
Motto for the eight-hour spouter, who lives by it!
" Short hours and long beers.”
At Dr. Barry’s, the new version : “ Lord have
mercy on us, miserable singers 1”
It is an error to suppose that Greenwood is a
dry stick on the Freethought platform.
A new weekly journal is to be established at
that rocky gap in the mountains, Lithgow,
A reporter on the Brisbane Observer described
a murdered man as being 11 detained” from coming
home.
They’ve manufactured—and sold—relies of every
saint in the calendar. Why not manufacture relics of
Leichhardt ?
The S. M. Herald, of Monday, speaks ef the
*' dead body ” of a suicide, and subsequently of the
“ lifeless body."
The Venezuelan army consists of 6000 rank and
file and 20,000 generals. In these colonies for “ gene-
rals" read J.’sP.
““ I beg your pardon, sir,” on colliding with a
man on a dark night. “ Gat out of the way, youjdirty
devil,” on discovering that it was a Chinaman.
Albury requires a missionary. Sunday noon :
Farmer ploughing his paddock. Sunday afternoon:
Two men drunk in engine-shed. Colonial wine-shop
close by.
From a Queensland papqr:—“lt is probable
that the memorial to the late Bishop O’Quinn will take
the form of a Magdalene Asylum.” Bather a left-
handed compliment. Is this a Papal “ bull F”
A Lachlan blackfellow was handed a long-
sleever of Colonial beer the other day. Quoth he to
the person who gave it him ;—" Please, massa, me like
it all the same big glass full o’ rum batter." Ha didn’t
get it.
We see by the Melbourne Herald that “Mr.
and Mrs. Brown, from England.” have arrived at
M<nzies’ Hotel. If this item will be of any service
to the other newspapers, we cheerfully make them a
present of it.
It is confidently stated that, since the publica-
tion of the report hy the Committee of the Assembly,
the Gas Company has had about 500 meters removed
from houses where these have been lying (no pun, of
course), and replaced them by others.
“ Tried and True ” is the title of Walter Rey-
nolds’ play. This reminds us of Peter Campbell. Peter
tried to ride a horse one day on the back Barcoo, and it
threw him so high that when he came down the frag-
ments filled seven baskets. Peter’s not in tbs play,
however.
“ Isn’t it a fact,” enquired that eminent and
venerable solicitor, Mr. C —, of a Quarter Sessions wit-
ness, “ that you and your brother are a pair of twins F "
The witness scratched his head, said he declined to
swear it, adding “ How many do you wish to make of
us, Mr. C— F ”
At a pic-nic, the other day, a party of young
ladies were much concerned about the dangerous effects
produced by tics, and dreadful were the stories related;
when one of these fair ones, uttering a piercing cry, and
springing to her feet, exclaimed, “ I’ve got a tic in my
vaccination 1 ” Happy tic I
“You have been found guilty of stealing these
cattle,” said the presiding judge, at the recent Tam-
worth assizes; “ of stealing these cattle from a poor
woman. Beside?, I see you have red hair. Seven
years on the roads.” “ Good heavens,” exclaimed a
local newspaper-man; •* another subscriber gone."
He is a puissant chief. His subordinates are
weak-kneed in his presence. Ha 1 ha! His choler’s up ;
a pound and a half of Glenflfdd’s patent starch (as used
by Her Majesty) bristles and crackles under either ear.
“ Sir, you smell of drink I” “ Beg pardon, sir, only
been interviewing another and a better sort of P. 8."
A Penrith doctor relates that a young lady, who,
by the way, is shortly to be married, came to him the
other day, accompanied by her mother, to be vaccinated.
However, when he told her to get ready, she objected
to uncover her arm, so he had to cut two pieces out of
her sleeve and vaccinate the fair creature through the
perforations.
Up Ballina way, the other day, a herbalist gave
a patient a great deal for his money. It was in a bottle,
and after that bottle had been standing on the shelf for
a day or two it suddenly exploded with a report as loud
as that of a gun, demolishing a quantity of crockery,
and breaking the pipe a man was smoking at the other
end of the room.
Balmain residents say that although Mr. Watt
supplied, and the S.M. Herald published, reports re-
ejecting his “inspection" of the Gas Company’s article,
they want to know if he ever examined or the Herald
ever reported on the gas the Company supplies to that
suburb, which comes from altogetherjseparate works
from those at which tho Sydney supply is eoneocted.
If not, why not ?
A party of Irish immigrants, enquiring at Coota-
mundra the coach fare to Tomora, were informed by the
agent that it was 10s. Being poor, they could not
afford that sum. They offered 53., but the coach agent
was inexorable. It appeared, then, there was no alter-
native but to walk. One of the party, an ancient
Spaniard, being determined te ride if possible, enquired
anxiously where was the master; he wanted to see
, himself—he’d engage Mr. Cobb wouldn’t lave them
walk.
How those parsons love one another ! On tho
coach for Wollongong, the other night, there happened
to be two of them: one was inside, while the other was
compelled to ride outside. It was bitterly cold on the
Bulli Mountain, where an inside passenger had occa-
sion to get out. The driver, who had promised the
other parson the next inside seat, called out, “ Como
on, parson, there’s room inside." With Christian love,
however, the inside one objected, protesting that there
were enough there already. One was a Wesleyan, the
other C.E.
The Salvation Army in Melbourne, in addition
to its vocal melody, has now engaged a bellman and a
trumpeter, and this combination of sweet and saintly
yowling, squeaking, and bellowing “fetches" the oi
polloi pretty successfully. They had a big demonstra-
tion the other night, close to the hospital; and as the
above musical talent was supplemented by the screech-
ing and jeering of a large mob of the choicest hood-
lums, tho hospital patients no doubt appreciated tho
religious services—as carried out by the Army.
When the Wolverene was at Kalo, the landing
party was guided in its march by the widow of one
of the murdered teachers. This “lady"—a Samoan —
started in a flash gown and hat; but after six-
teen miles was as nature made her, and she peeled
very well, too, from an aesthetic _ point of view.
Joe Wylde caught one of the two prisoners who were
taken. It really was rather a plucky thing. He fol-
lowed the fugitive into the bush, knocked the darkey’s
spears out of his hand, and caught him by the wool,
shooting another who was coming to the rescue. Tho
prisoner was an old man, and could not run like the
ethers, or Joe would not have come up with him.
"in the Survey office the staff officers are paid on
the Ist of the month, sharp. If the Ist falls on Sunday,
the cheques are payable on Saturday. The pay-sheets
for temporary draftsmen are made up to the 25th of
the month, and paid on tho 2nd or 3rd of following
month. The diagram draftsmen's vouchers are made
up to the last day of the month, and paid on the 6th
of the following month; but the contract draftsmen’s
vouchers, which are in the cashier’s office punctually
on the 15th and Ist of each month, cannot be paid
until nearly a fortnight after. Perhaps the gentleman
who. a short time ago, delayed them for ten days-
would hurry them up, as the delay was then not to occur
again.
That itinerant pair of musicians, so often seen
in Queen-street, Brisbane, were discoursing sweetly
outside the Oxford, about a week ago. Tte fiddle


went in to receive money, and tackled a couple of bank
clerks, whe gave him two'shillings for playing “Pina-
fore." A swell, lying languidly on the sofa, was then
asked for •* oblige the music,” but he at once turned
away. Putting the question again, the swell answered
that he had no change. ** I’ll give you change," at
once rettfmed the composed musician. That had the
swell properly, and, partly taking the joke, he handed
a shilling, but demanded ninepence change.
One day last week a vile, villanious, vegetable-
vendor, of the cursed Chinese persuasion, actually
walked through a group of fourteen harmless, innocent
little Sydney larrikins in a back street, and never a one
of the fourteen reached out for a brick, or made an
offensive remark on the Celestial’s clothes or counten-
ance. Now, hold on—don’t call us a liar, gentle reader.
The day before this happened, two of this " harmless
little larrikin band ” received two years for exploring a
Mongolian’s head with a marble which turned the
scale at 7 lb. There’s something in our gaols after all,
but we sincerely believe the larrikin stands in greater
fear of the enforced morning bath than of any other
punishment.
A desperate effort was made last week by the
young men of Bichmond to form a cricket club, cut it
was not exactly the great success it should have been.
Up to the present, the Bichmond youths have been
compelled to play with palings for bats, and an old stock-
ing filled with sawdust for a ball. It was, therefore,
proposed by the chairman to send to Sydney, and invest
mot less than Ss. in a cricketing outfit; but as there was
so ene else at the meeting except the chairman him-
self, the motien fell through for want of a seconder.
We don’t wonder at this at aH. Any man who has to
court <8 girls every day, and a double dose on Sundays,
has no time for anything else, unless the weeks are
stretched a little.
The Daily Staggerer is painfmlly puzzled to
know whether the illustration attached to a certain
advertisement in last issue of The Bulletin ispresents
the establishment of “Mr. T. Curley, Mr. T. Hurley, or
neither." Considering that the building in question is
neither a second-hand rag-shop, a saveloy-and-baked-
“ tatur" emporium, nor a destitute asylum, but simply
a “gentlemen's clothing warehouse," we fail to see
what interest the Staggerer can possibly have in it.
With a prudent “look-out" for the swiftly-coming
"rainy day,” the Dailt scribe advises us to “ send onr
subscription to the printers’ fund.” We do so
without the slightest hesitation, and sincerely trnst it
will help to soothe the thoughtful party’s fast-declining
yearst
One of the local portrait galleries is the fashion-
able rendezvous of Armidale. Every girl that has been
married there for the lost forty years appears to have
felt herself called upon to have a bridal portrait. Now,
there is something in this. It is probably either to
show what she was like before she was spoilt, or to
remind him—in the course of family disputes—what
she was before be got her. If, however, this photo-
graphic mania ended here, all would bo well. Every
Baby born in Armidale is either weighed or photo-
graphed—mostly photographed, however—and these
photos, are placed in the gallery, very near the bridal
assortment. These babies are a study. Some have
large ears, doubtless like pa; others have large months,
likb ma. All of them seem afraid —probably like ma,
when she got her own photo, taken.
A man was arrested as a lunatic, a week or two
back, at Tboruborough, Q., who seems to have been a
"pebble." The magistrate asked him if bo felt bad iu
the heed. "Oh I no; I’m perfectly well in body and
mind, and I daresay a great deal easier in my mind than
you I ” The telegraph manager (when he said he had
been bom under a bright, bright star) asked him if he
saw the star that morning. “Yes," he said, “I did;
bnt it strikes me you were not bora under a very bright
star." The peelers then took him to look him up, when
he yelled. " It’s a Fenian conspiracy to overthrow the
British Government." As it had been whispered that
the blue-coated cherubs were not entirely unsym-
pathetic with seme of their kinsmen in the “ onld
dart," the remark riled them. The arrested one seems
to have had a sort of method in his madness
The question of what become* of infants who
die unbaptised has been carried from the Presbyterian
Assembly at Melbourne Into the columns of the Arcus,
and as one of the disputants, Mr. B. Batchers, is
refused “a show" therein, he has recourse to the
Souths be Cross. In that paper he puts beyond a
doubt what, according to his catechism, will be the
ultimate fate of the sweet babes who have not been
dnly splashed with Tan Yeah. He says : “ All un-
baptised, be their parents Christians or Infidels, are
doomed to eternal misery and perdition," which law, it
is expressly stated (so that there can be no mistake
about the cheerful fact), “is to be understood not only
of adults, bnt also of infants." Mr. Batchers cannot
be accused of any vagueness, his statement is clear
enough j indeed, all the flames of hell seem to throw
their menacing light upon it, bnt is it any wonder that
the Arcus declined spreading this pious gentleman’s
erred 7 The refusal, though, seems to have hurt him,
for he continnest “this suppression of the troth (I)
will not add to the already tarnished reputation of the
Abg.xjs." The suppression was, no donbt, unpleasant to
Mr. Butchers’ ideas of fairness—which, however, do
not extend to nnbaptised infants, —bat we cannot help
thinking that the publication of such truth would
tarnish the reputation of the blackest and most blas-
phemous rag that was ever printed.
It is related by the Whitehall Review as an
astonishing fact, that Mr. J. Henniker Heaton has been
** struck by a happy idea. ” It appears, according to our
contemporary, that “ shortly after his arrival in England
Mr, Heaton found a mezzotint of Lord Sydney, Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies in 1787, and a great friend
of Captain Cook, the discoverer of Anstrlaia. From
this engraving Mr. Heaton has had an admirable half-
length portrait painted by a rising young artist, Mr.
Stuart, and intends to present it to the inhabitants of
Sydney, in whose fine Town Hall it is to be hung. The
portrait is an accurate copy of the original, the cor •
tome is perfect, and the picture will be a most interest-
ing souvenir to the Sydney people of the statesman who
gave his name to their town." It will be seen by this
that Henniker is by no means dead yet. We shouldn’t
be the least bit snpprised to hear of his getting into
Parliament next, or establishing a Society journal with
himself in the eiditorial chair, and a boy at thirty bob
a week to sweep the office and write the paper.
Commenting upon the Gas Companies do-
ings, the Melbourne (not the Sydney) Herald
says.—•• There is no cause shown why a gas
•ompany should be treated differently from any other
company, or why the sale of inferior gas should not be
as penal as the sale of short-weight bread. An act of
the Legislature specially bestows upon a company
valuable rights and privileges, and it would be useless
to deny that they are used to the utmost. Why, then,
cannot the supply of good gas be insisted upon, and the
practice of overcharging put a stop to ? The use of a
false meter is in reality as much a swindle as the utter-
ing of a forged document, and the enforcement of
payment for an article not really used, is only a legalised
and colourable form of pocket-picking. It may be
possible that those connected with gas companies are so
ethieally constituted as not to see their offences in this
light; but, if this be so, they must be made to see
them. There is no need, either, to wait for the Milen-
nium for the desirable consummation. It only requires
a little more legislative attention to the matter, and the
passing of a law which shall compel a gas company to
act honestly to their customers, and hold the directors
criminally responsible for any failure to do so."
A fine new yarn is narrated by the Melbourne
Evening Herald about an “ Indian Doctor" who “ ar-
rived by one of the Torres Straits mail boats,"
" shortly after the deplorable outbreak of small pox in
Sydney," and who vainly submitted to the attention of
onr authorities a " Qhazee-ooden or Fever mirror,”
which had the remarkable property of blushing when
carried over the vitiated spots or fever beds of a city or
country. The Indian doctor, however, was treated by
the Sydney officials “ simply as a fanatic,” and had to
shake the dost off his Oriental feet, and go on to Mel-
bourne, where the Herald invented, we mean dis-
covered, him. The narrator misses a point by omitting
to mention that the reason the Civic fathers would
have nothing to do with the blushing mirror was that
when Its possessor brought it to the Town Hall it
became crimson, and some of the aldermen thought it
reflected too much upon them, even for a mirror. Just
as if the Town Hall were a “ vitiated spot 1” However,
we know the Indian doctor is a fact, because the Herald
says ho is vouched for by Colonel Arthur Neill, “ of
the find Brigade,” by “Sir John Lawrence, of Bombay,”
and " Mr. Reginald, Inspector of Torres Straits mail
service.” And we may add to this testimony that of
Mrs, Harris, who lives at number twenty-sivin, and
would be happy to personally give aM information bnt
toarohe is momentarily “ expecting."
In a leading article, the S.M. Herald deliber-
ately announces that “ the omnibus driver who carries
a sack of gunpowder once may do so a second time."
Now, this is very true. We wonder where the Herald
got its information 7
The Queanbetan Age says that Mr. “Cooles-
ton Dugaar,” chief draughtsman for the survey of
runs, Lands Department, has resigned. Yes. Mr.
Eccleston Du Paur resigned a few days ago, and when
he reads that par. in the Age, he will probably die.
It is now becoming the fashion in Europe for
ladies to be vaccinated on the inside of the knee in-
stead of the outside of the arm. Bnt these ladies
don’t go and dance at down-the-harbour picnics, where
the vaccination marks would be as visible on one spot
as on the other.
At Thornborough, Hodgkiason, N.Q., an enter-
tainment is being got up in aid of the hospital. There
is no pianist on the field, so £lO has been subscribed to
pay the expenses of a musician from Cooktown. As the
receipts are expected to reach nearly £l5, the affair will
doubtless be a great success.
M Thatcher and Mortimer Franklyn recently
sailed in a cab at the residence of one of The Bulletin
staff. When they left, the pressman’s pa (cetat. 80) quietly
asked. Well, for whom did they want you to vote?”
Ihe cab and a roll of papers is the only defence put
forward, but Richmond says he’ll have £lo,ooo—that is
if he can fix up the great Palladium properly.
This is one of the clauses of the new Queensland
Licensing Bill i —“ Any publican or other person sup-
plying dnnk to any man at a greater cost than ss. per
diem, shall be obliged, on complaint being made, to re-
turn the whole amount of the charge so unlawfully
mode." All the honest publican can now do is to see
that the swagsman doesn’t get too much for the stan-
tory “bull.”
In N.Z. it is now the well-established fashion
for a man who has had a difference with a newspaper to
go to the office and endeavour to “ take it out" of the
editor. One society paper, which was the first sufferer
Sl oll^*ll^ 6011 k w * k* s engaged a gigantic editor from
the West Coast, who is an accomplished pugilist, and
has given striking evidence of his ability to vindicate
the literary character of the paper by the criterion of
physical force.
An ingenious party, writing to us re a par. which
appeared in our last issue, relating to a lodger who got
shut out with nothing on, all throrgh a dog barking on
the verandah, says : —“ In case of a similar accident
happening to other lodgers, I should advise them for
the future to wear pyjamas," Pyjamas cost money,
and we have hit upon a cheaper expedient than invest-
ing. If, sweet correspondent, you hear any dog barking
on jour verandah at night, make your grandmother
kick it oft. if you have one. If not, borrow a friend's
grandmother, and get her to do it. That will cost
nothing.
The Cumberland Fruitgrowers held their annual
picnic on the 4th current, at Manly. The orrange-
ments were well made, and the festive arboriculturists
looked well eti root. Their applecation to pleasure was
a treet to witness. Many young fruitists peared oft,
and anyone who saw them would not be thanked for
playing gooseberry, but if he had sense would give
them releaf by branching in another direction. There
were some nice plum-p girls there, in prune dresses,
also some sweet tigers. Nothing occurred to blight the
proceedings, and all the excursionists said they had
had a blooming fine day.
Great rejoicing has occurred amongst members
of the Brisbane Legislative Assembly and Council at
hearing that a member of New South Wales Assembly
had gone so close to the mark as to infer that one man
was a scoundrel, another a liar, and a third & thief.
Thursday’s Rum promises not to meddle with
The Bulletin again—at least, not for six months. What
was the Rum’s offence ? What did it get six months
for 7 And why! oh why ! were we not told before, so
that we could rush round and bail it out— with a bucket ?
“To let, 2 unfurnished rooms, as bed and sit-
ting room; also furnished bedroom, young lady. 107
—This slip was cut from the Stdnet Morning
Herald. Verjuice wants to know how the young lady
is to be let. Is she to be let with the bedroom, or the
sitting room ? or is she to be "let alone."
The landlady of a Charters Towers “ pub.”
was, the other day, fined £2 for having allowed “ Yan.
kee grab,” for drinks, in her licensed house. Concern-
ing this, the local editor writes:—"Yankee grab is a
mean practice anyhow, and is the result of poor times.
No one thought of Yankee grab six years ago."
When the train arrives at Albury from Sydney,
a melancholy-looking gentleman stands at the carriage
door until all the passengers have disembarked. Some
people think he has lost a portmanteau and is waiting
to pounce on the mam who has borrowed it, but others,
who are in the secret, know that he is on the look-out
for stray “ variola.”
The local authorities of Rockhampton are pur-
suing an exactly opposite plan, in making their city, to
that followed by those who started Sydney. Up there,
they have begun by draining and forming good streets,
and now they are planting trees on a well-planned
system along the river bank and sides of the streets. 24
fig trees, 70 bamboos, 220 rod cedars, and 80 chestnuts
have already been put in the ground.
There was a scandal trial at Tamworth, last
week. One of the elders of the Presbyterian Chnrch
sued a member of the same denomination for slander ;
damages claimed, £5OO. Defendant’s wife stated to the
clergyman that plaintiff had come out to her place, and
—well, misbehaved himself. It spread—that is, the
scandal. Verdict for defendant. Great interest in the
trial; court crowded; business suspended. Very pro-
per place, Tamworth.
Writes a correspondent * Mr. Terry’s hounds
ran after a dingo yesterday, and caught it twice; the
dingo was saved from injury each time, and is reserved
for further service; good sport was had.’ The fore-
going is a telegram to the Evening News of October 5.
How about the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals ? Sorry sport, indeed—hunting a dingo, catch-
ing him twice, saving him from injury and • preserving
him for further service I ’ O, my bleeding country I
my poor compatriot, the dingo 1 ”
To relieve the monotony of the trip to the Water-
works, last week, the Attorney-General and the Chair-
man of Committees extemporised a go-as-you-please
tournament. The style adopted was “ head over
heels," or the “ wheel-barrow trundle.” Cameron took
the lead and the pace was good, but after a few revolu-
tions he had evidently had enough, being probably
somewhat tender after the late sittings on the Licen-
sing Bill. However, Wisdom showed up splendidly,
and being a man of great breadth of—trousers, he
covered more ground than Cameron. So after exposing
his back-brace buttons a few times, it was all over.
The contest didn't take long, but it was very exciting
while it lasted.
A German, who haa visited some of the Austra-
lian capitals, gives the preference to Adelaide as a
place for a summer residence. The Echo ridicules the
statement by suggesting that Baron Munchausen has
some disciples in the world. Now, the German knew
what he was writing about, and the editor of the Echo
did not. If he had experienced the pleasures of a residence
on the Adelaide hills he would not have dreamt of saying
anything about “an unbearable climate.” A whole
summer in Adelaide will not damage a man’s constitu-
tion to the same extent as a residence in Sydney during
the month of February will. Adelaide has its defective
tanitary arrangements, but the people are begining to
awaken from their holy-joeystical torpor—they have
discovered that it requires something more than prayers
and long faces to keep level street gutters free from
obnoxious smells, and a perfect system of drainage has
been sanctioned, and is in course of being carried out.
In a few years the city will be the cleanest, and
probably the healthiest in Australia. In Adelaide
hitherto, it’s been a case of all prayers and no shower-
baths.
In the middle of last month, as near as we can
get it, at a picturesque little town, situated on tie
side of a hill overlooking the Murrumbidgee, a quad-
rille assembly wrought no end of mischief. Amongst
the visitors were the newly-arrived medico, and one
of Eve’s fairest daughters (from up the mountains),
upon whose head Nature had bestowed her warmest
colour. Ere the night had passed, the impassioned
disciple of science had lost his heart, and the lovely
“copper-topped” girl reigned mistress of his sou l .
On the following Sunday, the fair lady and a friend,
together with another gentleman, received an invita-
tion from the smitten one. to a snug little', dinner-party
of four. The other couple—of assorted sexes—would,
of course, mind their own business, and the doctor
would have an opportunity to press his suit. So ho
calculated. But he was a single man, and no matron
being invited to the snug little party, the prudent
maidens declined. Now, the dinner was really a choice
work of art, and though the doctor was mad, he dis-
sembled his feelings, and determined it should not be
wasted. So at the eleventh hour he went out into
the highways and byways, and meeting the local
journalist and a social bank clerk, he confided to
them his ardent admiration for their many personal
good qualities and bade them to the feast. It was au
unexpected pleasure, but they enjoyed the dinner, and
next day took occasion to remark, casually to their
friends, “Oh! I dined with Dr. Phlegm, yesterday ;
very nice affair; every delicacy,” Ac. In a day or two
the girls heard of this, ard let out that the dinner
had been prepared for them. And now the doctor, the
journalist, and the bank clerk are *' utter strangers 1”, k
A well-known actress went into a Grafton store,
the other day, to purchase some jewellery or fuller’s
earth, or somthing, and paying for the articles, left the
shop ; the storekeeper noticing, however, that her hair
appeared to be rather loosely done up. Shortly after
her departure another lady customer came in, but just
after she had given the order for her red-herring and
stick of blacking, she started back, and emitting a yell
that made every glass in Michael’s pub. to dance again,
she hoarsely murmured, “ snake I” Looking over the
counter, the shop-keeper saw it on the floor—a short,
thick, yellow one. Seizing the first thing that came to
hand, which happened to be a thirty-shilling umbrella
with an ivory handle, he leaped over the counter, and
striking at the reptile, hit the floor, and smashed the
“ 16-ribber "to pieces. Nothing daunted, he clutched
a three-shilling broom, add smashed that, while his
assistant, losing his head, commenced throwing per-
fumery and sewing-machines at the object of his terror.
Just then, the red-hening and blacking customer
fainted, and the actress came rushing back, and enquir-
ing for her false plait, which must have dropped off in
the shop. Hardly had she, with a smile, picked up
the deadly reptile and skewered it on, when the husband
of the other customer tears in, and wants to know what
in thunder they are doing to his wife. The storekeeper,
who is caught holding the fainting woman’s head up, is
too confused‘to explain, when things become more
complicated by the entry of five or six high-toned
squatters, who wish to renew their stock of oatmeal
and molasses. The result is confusion generally, and
the storeman is now looking out for a speculator who
will buy his business by private contract, since it is all
over Grafton that he has been detected in an orgie ; iu
which a snake, an actress, a broken umbrella, a neigh-
bour’s wife, and a shattered broom-handle figure con-
spicuously. There is no rest for him now, he says, but
in heaven.
Mr. Clarence H. Hannell, Shipping
Master, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Mr. Clarence H. Hannell was born in Newcastle.
N.S.W., and is a son of the late James Hannell, to:
merly M.L.A. for Newcastle and Northumberland. H
was educated at the Grammar School, Newcastle, an t
on the demise of his father, succeeded him in many ot
his public positions in the city. He fills the trip] -
position of president, judge, and hon. handicapper of
the Newcastle Jockey Club, having been for man
years its hon. secretary. He is also president and j udg «
at the Newcastle Annual Regatta, having been coi -
nected with it for 26 years, and hon. secretary for twent >
years. In each of these public positions he has given
unusual satisfaction, and at the last reeatta he wa
presented with a handsome testimonial in aoknowled;
ment of his valual le services- He was for many yeai
chairman of the Public School Board, under the ol<>
regime, and a great advocate for compulsory and fre •
education. The foundation-stone of the present New -
castle Public School was laid and the school formal)»
opened by him. On this occasion he made a neat, tell
ing, and powerful speech in favour of education, an-’
his brother members of the School Board present* •
him with a superb gold Maltese cross with suitable i
scription. He declined to accept a seat on the nc»
Board, the district comprising, in his opinion, to*,
large an area for the Board to control. Mr. Hannell *
connection with the charitable institutions is mo. t
meritorious. In the hour of shipwreck, flood, acciden-
or disaster of any kind, he is always m the fron
and the blessing of these who were ready to peris'
has been accorded to him oyer and over again. H
has organised various entertainments for chart tab 1.
purposes, and for the local Hospital, which latter hai n
in the aggregate realised between £5OO and £6OO. He i.
a great patron ot cricket, and has given several prize
to the local club. Mr. Hannell is also a contributor i..
the Press, and a sterling friend to the drama, possesin
great natural and dramatic talent himself, havingplayui
“Othello” for the benefit of Mr. Dampier, and agai .
for Mr. Creswick, with signal success on each occasioi,
and to crowded houses. He was also champion amatei
scalier of Newcastle, having never been beaten, ai a
winning 16 races, the trophies of which now decorat ■
his sideboard. In conclusion, we may add that he is i.i
every respect worthy of the name he bears, as a goo I
citizen, a generous host, and a truthful friend. Ho L■ •
proved himself to be a good son of a worthy sire, a>.
an affectionate father. For the last 18 years ho L..
held the post of Shipping Master of the port of Nt -s.
castle; and it is the universal wish that if he shoo’.f
yield to the oft-expressed desire of the citizens of N. .
castle, and represent them in Parliament, Ms in.--
cessor at the Shipping Office may do hia duty to 11
Government, to shipmasters and seamen, aa honours ,
as Mr. Clarence Hannell.
MR. CLARENCE H. HANNELL, SHIPPING MASTER, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Varnishing Day at the N.S.W Art Society’s Exhibition.
HOUSE P AINTER ( who has just finished the doors): “I jes come to see if I could give yer
a ’elpin’ ’and. If yer want that job put through smart, I’m yer man.
WHICH IS IT?
[See reports in dailies, re case of respectably-dressed
young man charged at “ the Central, on Monday.]
Four policemen swore that he was drunk,
Disorderly and rowdy;
Deposed, too, that his speech was wild—
His intellect most cloudy.
They ran him in, and locked him up.
Without the slightest warning;
And “ shoved " him in a felon’s cell.
To shiver until morning.
When morning came, the thing got mixed—
For, lo I it did befal.
Four worthy men came np, and swore
He wasn’t drunk at all f
They vowed the policeman broke the peace.
And on this theme enlarged ;
Whereat the learned magistrates
The prisoner discharged.
Now what will be the end of this ?
When shall a judge decide.
If these four traps are perjured men,
Or those civilians lied 7
There’s one thing that a bat might see,
And that is this, in sooth.
They could not both, which ever way
Yon look, have sworn the truth.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
Wo nhall be glad to have this index posted tip by secro-
tarios of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13,15.
Narrabri October 18. 19.
ißerrima October 20, 21.
Rnimngton Park October 22
Wanganui (N Z ) Trotting Club Meeting ....October 23.
Victoria EC. Soring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
'Brighton Park (Vic.) November 9.
’M nrrumburrah November 9
iP.u-ramatta November 9.
■ Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
|Q loensiand T. C November 9, K».
Wvcdhim (Vio.) No7e S i?'
] M arrumbidgoo Turf Club November 23, 24,25.
»Bandigo Jockey Club Meeting
'Murrambidgee Spring Meeting November 24, 25, 26.
ID media (N.Z.) J Opring Meeting.... Nov. 30, Dec. 1.
'Wellington Racing Club (N.Z.) Spring Moeting..Nov. 30.
‘Cootaimmdra December 1, 2. 1
1 Oatnaru (N Z.) J.G Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.
• Boithland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
•Temora December 8, 9.
* Tavmanian J.G December 10.
’Bathurst Amateur Turf Club December 10.
' Hamilton (Yic.) December 14, 15.
jßairnsdale (Vic.) December 21. 22.
x Warialda J.G. Annual December.
IA J.C. Summer M eting... December.
'Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
'Williamstown (Vic ) .December 24.
1 Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26 27.
1 Ballarat Turf Club December 26. 27.
(Sydney Turf Club December 31.
.Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 26; Jan. 1,3.
vy.R.e. Champion January 1.
rratteraairs (Sydney) ...January 1. |
♦Glen lanes • a ?? apy J
jßroulce . January 26 ana 27.
-Tasmanian Jockey Chib ... February 14 15, andl6.
IDunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting.. .Feb. 23.
\Waugannl<N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11, 12—1883,
AQUATICS.
TTickett v. ’PlaSstad October 15.
N.S VV. Rowing Association Regatta October 15.
A-il Schools* Race—lhv : or’s Trophy October 15.
IDcuble Bay Regatta,. ..October 29.
Qtoss v. Hanlan (Toronto) ....November 1.
■Balmain Regatta .November 9.
.'North Shore Rowing Club (Regatta November 19.
South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tiea Regatta.. December 17.
Koldsworth, Gardyne, nu i Co,‘.s trophy for
8-oar O (triggers December.
Annual Regatta ...January 1.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Six days 'Go-as-you-please (Newcastle)..,.....
Melbourne Cricket and Football Club .9.
CKICKET.
Intercolonial, at M dbou na December 54,21. 27.
All England v. Sydney Decembers, 10,12.
All England v. Vic oria December 1&.17.19,
Holdaworth-Gardyae Cup matches
1881 1882 !
O it. 15. Uni’ty v. Carlton Jan. 21, Carlton v. Uni’ty
Oct 2° Albert v. W irwick Jan. 28, Carlton v. Unity <
Oct' 29’ Albert v. Warwick Feb. 4. Albert v. W'rwick
Nov 5’ Albert v. Uni’ty Fab. 25, Albert v. W’rwick
Nov' 12! Albert v. Uni’ty Mar. 4, Carlton v. W’rw’k
Nov 19 W'rw’k v. Car ton Mar. 11, Carlton v. Wrw k
Nov 26 W’rw'k v. Carlton Mar. 18, Carlton v Albert
Dec. 3. Albert v. Carlton Mar. 25, Carlton v. Albert
\ Dec. 17. Albert v, Carlton Apr. 1, Albert v. Um ty
Apr. 8, Albert v. Um ty
3an. 7, Warwick v. Uni’ty Apr. 15, W’rwick v. Uni’ty
Jan. 14, Warwick v. Uui'ty Apr. 22, WTwick v. Um ty
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
A Jockey Club has been formed at Goulburn.
Tackett capsized again, recently, while practis-
ing at Barrie, U.S.
Athletic sports at Wallsend and Windsor on
Prince ot Wales’ Birthday.
The New Zealand horses Somnus and Hilarious
are going splendidly, the former having quite recovered
his form.
The South Australian Amateur Rowing Asso-
ciation will hold their lirst regatta on Torrens Lake,
on December 17.
Mr. Thomas Webb, who accomplished (while
hunting) the greatest leap on record, viz., 41ft. 7in.
across a smd pit, is dead.
Preliminary steps have been taken for holding
the annual regatta at Newcastle on New Year's Day.
A balance of £llB is in hand from last year.
James H. Riley, of Saratoga, recently crushed
his Angers badly whilst running his boat from a railway
c ir. The accident did not interfere with his rowing.
The 48-hou-s’ match between Edwards and
Swan terminatfd in favour of the latter, who did 177
miles 2 laps in th; allotted time. Edwards retired at
175 miles.
The owner of Boccaccio, the imported American
trotting sire, has announced his intention to give a
succession of £lO3 prizes, to be trotted for by two year
(olds'of this sire’s get.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron opened the
■season by a cruise list Saturday. Niue yachts took
part. A landing was made at Cremorne, and a banquet
.celebrated the occasion.
It is said that the people of Grafton, by whom
Hush is held in high esteem, apart altogether from the
opinion entertained ot him as a sculler, are about to
entertain him at a big spread.
Eli Jellett is about to offer for sale allhia horses
in training stables, &i. Ho alleges as a reason that he
Las contended for years against handicappers who have
estimated his h <rses too highly.
The wrestling match at the Hippodrome was a
very good cout. st. B >th men were well up in the art,
Lut Oliver succeeded in giving three falls out of five,
anl was therefore declared the winner.
The 500 yards’ swimming championship of Eng-
land was again won, ou August 20, by Willie Beckwith,
in 7min This being the third successive win,
the Challenge Cup now pisses into his possession.
The fifth quarterly competition of the 2nd regi-
ment Eifle Club was concluded on the Ist instant, the
winners of the first and second prizes being—Private
W. West, No. 4 Co , 1; Private B. Todd, No. 1 Co., 2.
The team of cricketers which has been organized
for a tour through A n t-alia is now in America, «n route
to the colonies. It lias been engaged in a match with a
Philadelphian teim The Englishmen proved easy
victor?, aid they also boat a New York Team in one
nnings.
An exhibition of American trotting horses took
place at Kanclwi k on Saturday afternoon. Though
they are not yet in tU ,ir best form, they pleased the
critics. One ot them was purchased by Mr. W. Harris
for 1203 guineas.
Mr. Michael Rush, the sculler, has, we hear,
bought a well kn >wu city hotel, of which be intends
becoming landlord D is understood that he takes
possession of his now hostelry, which is in Qeorge-
street, on Januar 2
At the Hippolmme, during last week, the
sexagenarians ( *hv didn’t the promoters seize that
word P) raosr.-s d el in . winforJ. Merc ir, with 7 miles
13 laps to his credit Mister Willie Franck walked 6
miles in 50miu 5 c.
The pedigree h' herto understood to belong to
the sensational 'nnre imohess has been found to 1 o
incorrect; and instead of being by Manuka from Pnn-
cess, she is by Kins? Alfred from Spitfire, by Rich view,
from a mare by Traveller.
The Melbourne Cricket Club has fixed the dates
for the Intercolonial lawn tennis championship match
on the 4th, 7th, and Bth November. The trophy is
valued at 10 guineas for tingle set. Championship
entries close on 31st October.
Encouraged by the success achieved by Messrs.
Lorillard and Keane, Messrs. Dwyer Brothers, the,well-
known American sportsmen, contemplate sending a
string of thoroughbreds to England to compete in the
principal events of the English turf next year.
The New England Grammar School held a sports
meeting on the 2s)th ultimo. About £2O in prizes were
presented, and several hundred people witnessed the
contests. The Cup (a very handsome article, worth
between 6 and 7 guineas) was won by C. E. Fraser.
Tocal, the unkind runner of Sir Hercules Robin-
son’s string, is dead. He had a quarrel with a common
gelding who was grazing in the same paddock, and
“ floored him for his impudence," but, stumbling on
him, he fell over his head, and “ broke his blessed
neck."
At the annual meeting of the Newcastle Cricket
Club, on the sth instant, at the Ship Inn, Mr. Mere-
wether was re-elected president, Messrs. C. F. Stokes,
J.P., and Stewart Keightley were elected vice-pre-
sidents. A large number of valuable trophies wore
handed over.
At the annual meeting of the Eandwick and
Coogee Cricket Club the following were elected as office-
bearers for the ensuing year:—President, Mr. John See,
M L. A.; vice-presidents, the aldermen of the borough ;
hon. treasurer, Mr. E. E. S. Braceyj hon. secratary,
Mr. W. Bcthune.
Eight balls were allowed to the over at the
Junior Cup match on Saturday, This plan, if carried
on, will certainly save time, but the bowlers' averages
will suffer materially. One bowler did not know of the
arrangement, and suggested to the umpire that his
over was rather long. He was at once enlightened.
On the 27th ult. the first eight-oared outrigger
made its appearance on the Torrens Lake (S. A.), manned
by a crew of the Norwood Bowing Club, who pulled
wonderfully well together for a first appearance. Their
craft is a remarkably handsome one, and cams from the
establishment of Mr. W. T. Greenland, Melbourne.
A “ladies’” six-days’ go-as-you-please is to
commence at Newcastle on October 24. The prizes
amount to £75 in all. The local paper, the Herald,
“ has no doubt but that many of our fair pedestrians
will come to'the fore, and struggle gamely to prevent
the prizes from being taken away from this city."
Bosh I
Very valuable prizes are offered for tbe Eakbauk
athletic sports, to come off on the 9th November. £2O
is given for the Likhgow Handicap, and a handsome
English lever watch for the one-hour go-as-you-please.
Besides these items, there are substantial money prizes
awarded for jumping, novel and sack races, and tug-
of-war.
Mr. G. E. Eussell Jones has offered a trophy,
value four guineas, for the Junior Cup matches. He
wants it to be given for something that has not been
thought of. We suggest that it be given to the high-
est individual score male amongst the beaten clubs.
The winning club gets all tbe trophies up to the
present.
Cook and Roberts are both in England again,
and thbfcbmcr has just received from India some cups
won during 'their late tour. One of these is a goblet
worth £lOO, presented by Messrs. Lazarus and Co., the
makers, of Calcutta; The cup was given for a match
0f,3000 up, played between Gockrand Roberts, and won
i)>7, Cook. • ' ~ ' -
The annual meeting of the Sydney Amateur
Sailing Club was held on fast ■ Friday evening. Boat-
houses for the club are to be erected on the allotment
adjoining the Sydney Bowing Club's premises. The.
balance at credit is over £72. Mr. Q. C. Elliott is
CO nmodore, and Mr. A. Green secretary, for the en.
suing year. , .
There is a condition attached to the Melbourne
Cup. If nominators do not pay up the second forfeit
on Thursday next they are liable for the whole stake,
and if the whole stake be not paid by 11 o’clock on the
morning before the race, the nominator is not only
liable for the whole stake, but his horse will not he
allowed to start.
The Canterbury Chess Club has challenged the
Sydney Chess Club to play a match of two ooasnltation
games. Unfortunately the latter club has long ceased
to exist, but surely, to accommodate our New Zealand
friends, tbe indefatigable Mr. Crane will not allow the
affair to fall through. The great expense of cabling
moves is the rock ahead.
The Wagga Gold Cup is this year the gift of
Mr. B. C. Cooper, of Lake George. Messrs. Walsh
Bros, of Melbourne, have manufactured to his order a
very elegant and valuable specimen of the goldsmith’s
art. It is an Etruscan vase, enriched with appropriate
and beautiful designs. Surmounting the lid is the
representation of a racehorse eagerly attempting to-
start. ..
Great complaints are made in the local sporting
papers as to the manner in which the totallsator machine
at the Morphetville course (S.A.) is used. This is
where the D.O.D. episode occurred. Lately the register
of a winner advanced from 73 to 83. Errors are being
made frequently, and now it is elicited that the machine
is constantly going wrong. The secretary and employes
are held above suspicion.
The Duchess secret was exceedingly well kept.
Not a stable boy at St. Alban’s was aware that the mare
was there. It was known to only four people, who
could and did hold their tongues. Progress, who is in
the same stable, has been scratched for the Melbourne
Cup, ostensibly because the trainer thinks he has a
better thing in the Duchess, and he does not wish to
mislead the public by keeping the horse in it.
At the Midlands Championship meeting, last
July, two brothers named Darin performed surprising
athletic feats, each wirning two events. P. Davin,
however, quite out-heroded his fraternal rival, for he
cleared n bar 6ft. p.u. high, and made a running length
jump of 22;t. llin.—both deeds being hitherto un-
equalled. Another “ best on record,” during the same
afternoon, was the leaping with a pole over a bar at
lift. Sin. by a Mr. Bay.
The Carlton Club, who arc considered to be the
probable ultimate winners of the Holdsworth-Gar-
dyne Cup, made a ‘ stand" for it on Saturday last
against Univer it 7 Club. There are over two hundred
reasons for maintaining that the Carltons will win this
present match : and though it is quite possible that the
University Club may have a great say in the eventual
contests for the Cup, they cannot expect to win the
present except by sorcery.
Wo are requested to draw the attention of
cricketers to the following conditions of the Thomson
Junior Challenge Cup:—"Clubs eligible to compete
must have been properly organised during last season,
and must not allow anyone to play with them who
shall belong to any senior club [and shall have any
intention to play in matches with such senior slob
during the present seasonl, under penalty of being
struck out of the list of competitors.”
The Surrey U uited Club protest against Duncan
playing in the junior club matches, on the ground that
he is a professional cricketer, being engaged to bowl
at the Association ground daring two afternoons of
the week To save time, the committee should not
consider this protest until the present match is
finished. Should the Nationals, with whom Duncan
plays, be defeated, they will be out of the Cup, and
Duncan’s eligibility will not affect future proceedings,
The fishing season has commenced on the Der-
went, Tasmania. A New Norfolk correspondent states
that the fishing season there seems to have commenced
in earnest. “ On Sunday night one person caught
three fish, which weighed 25’b in all, the largest of
them turning the scale at 171 b.; another individual
caught one weighing 7ilb. I hear that another disciple
of the gentle art was hooked to a monster, who, after
dragging the boat and its occupants all over the river,
broke tho rod in two, and said * good-bye.’"
The annual meeting of the Prince Alfred Yacht
Club was held on sth instant. Following are the office-
bearers for the ensuing year:—-Commodore, Mr. J. H.
Want; vice-commodore, Dr. Milford; hon. treasurer,
Mr. A. W. Stephen; hon. secretary, Mr. V. Brown ;
committee, Dr. M’Kellar, Messrs. P. J. Jackson, A. G.
Milson, jnn , W. Grant, P. Creagh, E. Binney; handicap
committee, E. Simpson, W. B. Young, P. Creagh, F.
Macleod, and W. J. Trickett; auditors, Messrs. A.
Tooth and E. Simpson. The opening cruise is to be
held on Saturday.
Mr. Sidney Cohen has offered a trophy, value
£5 Ss., for highest individual score in the first
eleven of the Carlton Club during the present season.
A similar trophy was offered last season by Alderman
Young, and considerable interest was created thereby.
Moloney held it with 52 for a long time, then Tom
Nunn tied him; Stuart Woarne boat that score, but
towards the end of the season Joe Davis, who had
been going very near to the top on several occasions,
made a big score and secured it. Alick Bannerman has
made a decided lien on the present trophy by his big
innings on Saturday last.
A sculling contest has been arranged between
Edward Trickett, of Sydney, and F. Piaisted, an
American sculler. The match is to be rowed on
Saturday, the 15th instant, at St. Louis in Canada.
Trickett wrote lately to Laycock, complaining that ho
could not got a match on, and advised him, it he
thought of coming to America with rowing intentions,
to put his visit off. Piaisted, who is a first-class sculler,
has done some good work, and is thought highly of in
the American aquatic circles. It Trickett beat him,
it will at least show that the colonial is not so played
out as his friends in Australia think him to be.
The opening match for the HoldsWorth-Gardyne
Challenge Gup was commenced on Saturday, on the
Association Ground, between the Carlton and University
Clubs. Carlton won the toss, and the two Bannermans
went to the wickets. Charley’s stay was short, but he
displayed his old driving form, to the great delight of
the spectators. Alick played a great innings, though
he gave a chance in the middle of his innings—but the
bad fielding of the University should not detract from
his meed of praise. Geary also gave a chance —in fact,
the University refused several openings; and the only
chance that team now want is to win the match, and it
won’t have a show of refusing that. Following are
the scores, so far: —Carlton C.C., first innings : C. Ban-
nerman, c Jones, b Allen, 17; A. Bannerman, c. Wilkin-
son, b Jones, 110; Davis b Jones, 30 ; M'Crea, b Jones,
2; Geary, not ont, 62; Webster, b Powell, 4 ; Wearne,
runout, 1; Nunn, b Garrett, 0; H. Hall, b Powell, Is
Callachor, not out, 10; sundries, 21. Eight wickets for
261.
Several pigeon matches were shot off at Ken-
more on the 7th instant. A large number of sports-
men took part,! and the shooting was good. First
match, £1 sweep, 5 birds, 25 yards’ rise—Faithful,
Phelps, W. Davis, H. Payton, W. Best, 4 birds each;
Smart, Weston, H. T. Gordon, 2; Badgery, Smith,
M'Dougall, retired; Gannon, first. The four shot off,
Hamilton and Gordon dividing second and third
money. Second match, £3 sweep (handicap). 21 to 30
yards, 9 birds—Smith, H. Gordon, M. Faithful,
Phelps, Gannon, 8 ; Hamilton, Weston, and H. Payten,
7; Scone, 6; Best, H. T. Gordon, Davis, Smart,
M'Dougall, Badgery retired. Smith, H. Gordon, M.
Faithful, Phelps, Gannon divided money. Third
match £3 sweep, sbirds (handicap), £2O first, £8 second,
£s'third—A. Badgery, 5; M. Faithful, Thorn, E.
Badgery, H. Gordon, 4 ; H. Payten, 3; H- T. Gordon,
W. Davis, f cone, Phelps, Smith, Gannon, F. Payten,
retired ;A. Badgery, first; Faithful, Thorn. E. Bad-
gery, H. Gordon, dividing other prizes. Fourth
match, £2 sweep, double birds—divided, H. Gordon,
Hamilton. Private match for £5 aside, H. Payten and
Smith; the former won.
Burt Brown, the amateur oarsman, relates ia the
Qeneva(U.S.)ADVERiiSER that while practising recently
on Cayuga Lake, suddenly he seemed to have lost
motion, and pull as hard as ho might his boat made no
headway. Finally he made a sudden Herculean effort
which snapped his oar, and he was helpless. Not five
minutes elapsed when, turning his eye in the direction
of the bow, he noticed what was apparently three or
four coils of heavy rope wound about his shell. He worked
as best he could with the other oar to get it loose, when
.suddenly his boat began to move, and looking once
behind' him ifß discovered that his boat was within the
coils cf serpent, at least 40 feet long, which
cwatr,,v/Uii head above water, and moved off with fright-
ful v ijtoj&fty. Right up the lake it towed him, and across
to east shore to Union Springs, where it at last
unwound from the boat and sunk beneath the surface.
It had towed bim in safety about 12 miles, as near as
Burt can name it, in 35 minutes. In connection with
this amazing revelation, the editor of the Canadian'
Sportsman remarks:—“ If we mistake not this Burt
Brown is a nephew of Courtney’s, and remembering
that important fact, wa are not surprised at the story.
We are astonished the snake did not swallow the boat.
Brown and all, then swim to the wharf and allow the
nephew to call for his undo to bring down his little saw
and cut bim out.
Following is the result of drawing for order of
play for the Thomson Junior Challenge Cup:—National
v. Surry United, Caxton v. North Shore (Belmoro),
Oriental v. Glebe (Strathmore), Herald Office v. St.
Peter’s, Conqueror v. Australian, Waratah v. Our Bays,
Orient v. Montrose, Albion v. Rayston, Excelsior v.
Osborne, Richmond v. Royal Orient, Croydon v. Oxford,
Alexandria v. Corio, Woollahra Victoria v. Ironclad,
Derwent v. Lincoln, Stratheam v. Clio, Perseverance v.
Young Oxford, Lismore v. Australian Surry. The first
match was commenced on Saturday last in the presence
of a large number of spectators. The wickets had
been carefully prepared and matting was laid, the
result being that the absence of a good ground was not
felt. The Nationals went first to the wickets, and suc-
ceeded in putting np' a total of 89, te which Blanohfield,
by very good play, contributed 22, Williamson 21, and
Adamson 23. The fielding of the Surry United Club
was very fair, the wicket-keeper being particularly ex-
cellent, but their bowling was at times erratic. The
Surry United made 67, the low score being chiefly due
to Duncan’s excellent bowling. Searle made 30 by very
scientific and steady play, and was treated to consider,
able applause when he retired. The Nationals lost two
wickets for very few runs when time was called, and
the match, which will be continued next Saturday after-
noon, may prove close and exciting.
Following are the results of the first day’s
events of the N.S.W. Association Regatta :—First Race:
Maiden Four-oar Race, in gigs, fixed seats. Course:
From Blaxland’s Point to One Man’s Wharf. Glebe
Club —E. J. Haslingden (bow), J. Lee, G. Robertson,
R. Shute (stroke), F. Stobo (cox.), 1; M. R. C. —F.
Hebblewhite (bow), A. Croall, F. Boulton, H. Picker-
ing (stroke), W. Foster (cox.), 2; M. R. C. —E. Palmer
(bow), W. Corbett, L. C. Birchall, W. H. Bros (stroke).
S. Chates (cox.), 3; Newcastle Club —T. P. Macdermott
(bow), E. Graham, R. Bourke, A. Langwill (stroke), 4;
N. S. R. C.—J. P. Brindley (bow), R. Little W. German,
W. J. Weatherill (stroke), T. Yates (cox.), 5; S. R. C.
—W. P. Payten (bow), J. Hassell, W. H. Baxter, C. D.
Best (stroke), 0. Second Race; Junior Scull Race, in
wager boats. Course : From Blaxland’s Point to One
Man’s Wharf. M.B.G.—F. Ives, 9st. 31b., 1; S.R.C.—
C. Dobson, lOst. 81b., 2; M.R.C.—J. Trimble, 10st. 121 b.,
3. Third Race: Challenge Eight-oar Race, for seniors
in outriggers. Champion Course, Parramatta Kiver.
S.R.C.—P. Hart (bow), H. Rich, P. De Mestre, R.
Moppett, J. Brodie, C. Gayden, N. Johnson, R. Bedford
(stroke),!; M.R.C.—C. H. Williams (bow), H. Wilkin-
son, F. Bell, A. Bros, A. Coker, F. Mountcastle, C.
Bros, W. G. Brett (stroke), 2. The club winning the
prize for this event three times is to retain possession
of it, and Association medals are given to the winners
annually.
Following are the results of the Hunter’s Hill
Amateur Athletic Sports, last Saturday .—Mi e Flat
Race, handicap, two prizes. J. Ferrers, scratch, 1;
P. R. Pedley, 110 yards, 2; D. D. Middleton, scratch,
3 M. Arnold 30 yards, 0 ; J. A. Buckland, 40 yards,
0; A. Bros, 70 yards, 0. 4 min. 36 seb 103 Yards
Flat Race, two prizes. E. P. Simpson, 1; S. H. Fair-
land, 2; A. O. Logan, 3; E. Macquarie, 0; P. C. Fair-
land, 0; P. Russell, 0; J. B. O’Brien, 0 Schools
Quarter-mile Flat Raoe.ltwo prizes. J. Parker, Sydney
Grammar School, 1; C. M. Readford, King’s School,
2; F. Poster, Modern High School. 0 : W. Thompson,
Newington College, 0 15) Yards Flat Race, handicap,
two prizes. First heat: 4,. Gerard, 7 yards, 1; J. F-
O’Brien, 4 yards, 2; S. H. Fairland, 4 yards, 0 ; E. P.
Simpson, 0 ; J. F. Pike, 6 yards, 0, A. H. Mioarthur,
6 yards. 0; H. Fligg, 10 yards, 0; P. W. Maddooks, 11
yards, 0; G. C. Addison, 12 yards, 0. Time, 16 secs.
Second heat; F. Russell, 2 yards, 1; P. C. Fairland,
3 yards, 2; A. P. Phillips, 5 yards, 0;H. P. Falser, 6
yards, 0; P. L. King, 7 yards, 0; H A. M'Quade, 8
yards, 0; W. E. Harnett, 10 yards, 0; C. A. D’Apice,
12 yards, 0. Time, 16i secs. Third heat: Gerard, 1;
P. C. Fairland. 2; O’Brien, 0: Russell, 0. Time, 15
sec 150 Yards Plat Race, handicap, two prizes, boys
under 14, residents of the Parramatta River district. E.
Pearson,scratch, 1; A. Durham, scratch,2; R.Paterson, 8
yds.,3. Quarter-mile Plat Race, Challenge Cup; club; to
be won twice consecutively. A. P. Phillips, 1; J. Ferris,
0; W. P. Simpson, 0, Time, 52seo Hurdle Race, 800
yards, handicap, over eight 3 feet 3 inch hurdles. G.
C. Addison, scratch, 1 ; H. Pligg, owed 6 yards, 2 ; H.
A. M'Quade, owed 8 yards, 3; F. Russell, owed 20
yards, 0; A. Gerard, owed 15 yards, 0; A. H. Mae-
arthur, owed 15 yards, 0 : J. J. Brenan, owed 10 yards,
0. Time, 42 sec Walking Mitch, two miles, handi-
cap, two prizes. M. Arnold, scratch, 1: W. E. Jack,
Sflsoc., 2; W. E, Harnett, 30soc„ 0; W. Shipway, 33sea.,
0. Arnold won with ease. Time, lOnin. 15seo Half-
mile Flat Race, the President's Challenge Cup, for resi-
dents of the Parramatta River district, to be won twice
consecutively. S. H. Pairland, 1; P. C. Fairland, 0;
C. D’Apice, 0 Walking, One Mile, boys under 15
years, three prizes. J. De Lauret, 1; E. Fitzgerald,
2; W. Campbell, 3; E. Paterson, 0; A. Manning, 0.
3OO Yards Flat Race, handicap, two prizes. A. P.
Phillips, 3 yards, 1; A. H. Macarthur, 7 yards, 2; J. P.
Pike, 9 yards, 3; J. A. Buckland, 8 yards, 0; J. S.
Deucbar, 8 yards, 0 ; D. D. Middleton, 10 yards, 0 ; H.
Fligg, 10 yards, 0; J. J. Brenan, 12 yards, 0 ; P. W.
Haddocks, 14 yards, 0; C. A. D’Apioe, 14 yards, 0; O.
C. Addison, 14 yards, 0. Tho prizes were presented,
on the ground, immediately after this race.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Northumberland Pigeon, Poultry, and
Canary Society intend having a homing match from
Singleton, on the Prince of Wales Birthday, for a silver
clip The committee entrusted by W. M. and H. J.
Chinnery, of London, with the management of the
sculling races for ttie Chinnery prizes, have decided to
allow this year the useof sliding seats in the juniorrace.
.A capital judge of horseflesh in New Zealand re-
gards Somnus as the best two-year-old ever seen in the
southern colony, and thinks that if he retains his form
he will be found quite capable of clipping the wings of
Darebin, Monmonth, Somerset, and other cracks. Sir
Modred he considers quite as good a horse ns Progress
up to a mile and a half, but not quite so good a stayer.
The Wagga people have decided that the terms
asked by Mr. Conway for a match with the All-England
Eleven are too high, and the date fixed unsuitable
Steps are being taken to form a branch of a Northern
Hunt Club in Singleton, embracing the districts from
Newcastle to Murrurundi. One well-known Singleton
horse-breeder has promised a liberal subscription At
Victoria Park, on the 30th ultimo, J. Scott ran E. Gor-
man, 100 yards, £4 a-side. The latter was the favourite,
but Scott won easily. The winner ran over the course
twice, on account of Gorman making false starts W.
Dymock ran N. Stewart again last week, for another
trophy, the former giving Stewart seven yards out of
125. Dymock scored another win by half a yard. The
loser intends to have yet one try more The Broulee
District Jockey Club issue a splendid programme for
the races to come off at Moruya on the 26th and 27th
January. Included in the list is the Moruya cup of 100
sovs A match for £5 a-side was run off on the Flat
at Dubbo, on Wednesday 2Sth ult., between Mr. Facer's
Yeno, and Mr. Jackson’s Whalebone. The distance was a
quarter-mile. Veno won easily On the Ist October,
the Surry United C.C. defeated the Carlingford C.C. by
105 runs. Newcombe bowled splendidly for the victors,
obtaining an average of 53 balls, 13 runs, 7 wickets.
How is it that he did not play for the S.U. C.C. in the
Junior Cup match, on Saturday last ? We are not aware
that he plajed for any of the senior clubs last season.
His bowling would have been of great service, and
might have made some difference in the result of the
first day’s play The Albert Victor Club defeated the
Essex C.C. by 9 runs on Moore Park on Saturday
Coulthard, Spear, Logan, and Cotter have been engaged
for the ensuing season as ground bowlers by the M.C.C.
It is contemplated to engage another professional A
handicap foot-race of 100 yards at Botany, on the sth
instant, resulted in a win for English, who got a start of
32 yards. The scratch men were overhauling him fast.
Another race came off on the same day, between T.
L oyd and W. Hans for £2O. Lloyd was made a slight
favourite, and he justified the opinions of his backers,
as he cime away from Hans when about 75 yards had
been covered, and won as he liked. Another match is
spoken of The athletic sports, under the aupices of
the combined football clubs, on Saturday, in the Bris-
bane Park, were a great success. The Governor was
present. The competitors dined together in the even-
ing A cricket match was played on the Ist instant, at
Dungowan, between that team and Tamworth first,
eleven, which resulted in an easy victory for the latter
in one innings The S.A. J.C. have expended alto-
gether £6144 on the Morphetville course, and during
the last six months the club has made a net profit of
£790 on the totalisator. The Adelaide Kacing Club has
cleared nearly £2OOO by the instrument Deerfoot,
one of the best steeplechasers ever in this colony,
“ handed in his checks ” very suddenly a day or two
ago, when drawing the stock-in-trade of an itinerent
shopkeeper from Lexton to Waterloo, Vic. Deerfoot
was lately raffled by Mr. Phillips, and Mr. Ellis, his last
owner, bought him from the winner on that occasion.
Mr. Ellis will be remembered by old residents as at one
time the owner of the famous Montezuma Theatre
The Balmain Young Prince C.C. and the Parramatta
Defensive C.C., met last Saturday at Parramatta. The
former won easily by 50 runs. The bowling of W. Alsop
and J. Alderson for the Y.P. C.C. was very effective, as
were also the bowling and batting of O. Austin for the
D. C.C. ’those who batted well for the Y.P. C.C. were
H. Darling (24), W. Haymau (15), and F. Lyons (13)
Messrs. Burton, Deacon, and Littledale, of the yacht
Asteriod, were elected hou. members of the Sydney
Amateur Sailing Club, at the annual meeting held on
Friday last.
* * *
Mr. Hone, a cricketer of great merit, who had
distinguished himself on many occasions in England
and Ireland, has been fatally poisoned, through the
mistake of a chemist’s assistant, who introduced
carbolic acid into a prescription At Tunstall, Eng.
land, Mr. Lloyd Clarence, on whose premises a number
of bets were made and settled on the occasion of a foot
race, was fined £2O and costs On 11th August, at
Teignemouth, England, W. H. Beckwith, the champion,
easily won the 1000 yards swimming event, open to all
comers, by a dozen lengths. Time, 18 min. 164 sec
At the Moseley Harriers’ Athletic Sports, England, oh
6th August, Mr. W. G. George ran 1000 yards in 2 min.
18 sec., beating 17 other competitors. This beats the
best previous amateur record The great Sheffield
Handicap finished up on 30th July, resulted thusE.
Moore, Southport, 1; J. T. Crossley, America, 2; A.
Bellfield, Quarry Bank, 3; T. Gillow, Sheffield, 4
Jacob Pineus, the American trainer, in a recent inter-
view is reported to have said, relative to Archer’s
steering of Iroquois in the Derby“ If the horse is
good enongh, any good jockey will do. Archer is a
splendid jockey, but Cannon, Fordham, and Webb are
nearly, if not quite, as good as he is. Either of those
would have piloted Iroquois to the post at Epsom.
Archer is fearless, and he does not throw any chances
away. Some of the jockeys are afraid of the hill at the
Tottenham Comer, but Archer does not mind it any
more than a straight run. If he is superior in any
particular to such riders ns Cannon and Fordham, it is
due to his courage.” Messsr. Swaddle and Winship
have constructed a new skiff, to the order of E. - W.
Boyd, the English sculler. Her dimensions are: —
Length, 30ft. 2in.; breadth of beam, s|in.; height at
stem, 3fin.; height at stern, 2|in.; height amidships,
64in. She is fitted with swivel rowlocks, a 26in. slide,
and is constructed of best Mexican cedar, and weighs
only 28ilb Madame Willetts, who is styled Champion
Female Pedestrian of the World, successfully concluded
the task of walking 528 quarter-miles in 528 consecutive
ten minutes, at the Boyal Oak Running Grounds, North
Malton, in the presence of a large concourse of specta-
tors, on 20th August. To do this, Madame Willetts had
walked four days and three nights, from six o’clock
Wednesday morning until ten Saturday night.
Madame Willetts has since undertaken to walk six
miles within the hour Vignaux, the great French
player, when he met Slosson, the American, in a game
for the championship at the French game, made no less
than 1531 cannons in succession, and Slosson made
1103. Each cannon scored as one point The dinner
of the Past and Present Bugby Union Football Players
has been postponed to Tuesday, 18th instant The
following is from the San Francisco mail summary :
‘‘ It is now openly asserted that Shrinkel, a member of
the Cornell crew, who fainted at Vienna (by which the
race is alleged to have been lost), was in collusion with
a betting ring in America, to throw off on all races
made by the crew. A New York journal says there is
documentary evidence of the treachery. He wrote to a
Mr. Casey, from London, before leaving for Vienna:
‘Bet Cornells will lose Vienna race.’” On the
strength of a jump (says a San Francisco paper) made
by Dale recently at Alpena, Mich., his backer offers to
match him to jump any man in the world one single
standing jump, for from £5OO to £lOOO aside. The
distance which Dale is said to have covered with the
use of the fifteen-pound dumb-bells, is 14ft. 7in.


NOTICE.— On and after Saturday, the Ist October,
my prices for Wines, Spirits, Ales, and Stouts
will be as quoted in my standing advertisement in this
paper.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
Wino and Spirit Merchant,
C 5 Pitt-stieet, Sidney, N.S.W.
ASH PRICE LIST OP WINES, ALES, AND
SPOUTS.
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Pott ... 21s to 36s Od 1 Good Sherry 2is to 36s Od
SPIRITS.
*«T Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must ho for
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of ono sort, otherwise
6d. per dozen extra will be charged.
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town or to the Wharvja or Redfern Railway Station.
Terlns—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANT,
65 Pitt-strcet, Sydney.
y j ARGEST
ESTABLISHMENT
KIND IN AUSTRALIA.
OF
THE
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
RETAIL PEICE LIST.
Pure Ceylon Tea
Pnre Java Tea
Pure Indian Tea .
2s, 2a 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4a 6d, 5s
per lb.
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, Is 4d, la 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended to.
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3id per lb.
T
HE Most PERFECT-FITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH ahd MANN ELL’S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/. and 50/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
hosier's, AND MEN’S S, MERCEBS,
298 Georoe Street, Stdnev
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
gMALL POX. SMALL POX.
PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE.
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHET is the best PRE-
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX. Price, la.; from all
Chemists.
JIMPORTANT NOTICE.
PIRATES of PENZANCE,
H.M S. PINAFORE,
PATIENCE.
By Messrs. Gilbert and Sullivan,
BILLEE TAYLOR,
By Messrs. Stephens and Solomon.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON is the sole proprietor in
the Australian colonies, Tasmania, and New Zealand,
of the above comic operas. Proprietors, managers, and
lessees of Theatres, Concert Halls, &o , and other per-
sons, whether professionals or amateurs, are therefore
warned that the unauthorized preduction of the said
operas, or any portion of the words or music thereof,
renders all concerned therein liable to severe penalties
and damages, which will, in every case, be strictly
enforced.
For information, apply—
MACDONALD’S International Dramatic Agency,
64 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
General Agent for Mr. Williamson;
LYNCH & MACDONALD, Solicitors, Market-square,
Collins-street, Melbourne.
J H E AVENUE,
RECREATION AND PIC-NIC GROUNDS
OF THE
LANE COVE RIVER.
Steamers leave Lime-street Wharf, foot of Erskine-
strect, daily, as per Time-table.
THE LARGEST RECREATION GROUND about
Sydney, with most beautiful Scenery awl Shade.
SWINGS, SEE SAWS, CRICKET, QUOITS, BOWLS.
A SPLENDID PAVILION FOR DANCERS, with
BAND MUSIC, and SPECIAL STEAMERS
every Saturday and Holiday.
Admittance on above days, including return passage
per Steamers, Is. 6d.; Children under twelve years, 9d.
Admittance on other days. Is.; Children, 6d.
Tickets to be shown at the Entrance.
TEMPERANCE REFRESHMENTS, Tea, Coffee, Ac.,
supplied at moderate rates.
Special arrangements made for Schools and Societies
by applying*to N. Jodbert, Lime-street Wharf.
fSTEvery endeavour will be made to give satisfaction
to pleasure-seekers,—the sale of intoxicating -drinks
being strictly prohibited, and disorderly or troublesome
persons expelled or punished.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
o MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482. kto 4Si, GEOROE-STBEET,
Opposite the Frnit Markets.
Established 1564.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, LEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONARijK
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12a 6d.
I ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
AND A PERFECT PIT GUARANTEED.
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS;-
MADAME DEMOREST’S
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York,
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 King Stheet, Sydney (two doors from George-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrkc-sfrcct, Melbourne.
The new south wales tailoring
COMPANY.
WM. CHS. HARDING, in succeeding t> the business
of Geo. L. Lineker, bogs to inform the public that ho
will carry on the same under the above name, and
hopes by strict attention to business, combined with,
moderate charges, to retain and increase the patronage*
so liberally bestowed on hia predecessor.
W. C. 11. also begs to state that ho has scoured Ho-
services of the late proprietor, who is known ns an ex-
perienced and stylish London CUTTER, to take charge
of the Catling Room, and act as General Manager
during his absence on Country rounds.
JJ AV E YOU
TO
B E E NT
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
E
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from Goorge-strcet.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pro*
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled is
style, cut, and finish, being r. odcllcd from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,-
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Ladies and Child-
ren furnished with illustra
tiona and directions for mat-
ing up. Sold at prices rang - -
ing from 6d to 2«. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF'
FASHIONS, Price, 7d ; by post, 8d; or Ca per
annum, post free. Catalogue ef Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
101 King-streot, Sydney.
T
gT>
9
f
54
&
m
as
9
*9
&
■ -•
re
V'-
r.
A
m
DUEKE, COULSON, & LEEDS
■*"* AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBROKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE,
A fool and hia money aro soon parted, as the
man found outjwho paid 50 per cent, more for bis goods,
instead of going to Hamburger Brothers and Co., 375
George-street, who are relinquishing business, to sell
their stock of watches, clocks, jewellery, pipes, and
fancy goods, at English cost. Open from 8 to 1 and 2
to 6.—Advt.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 4th October, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS POE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE ia hereby given that unless the Lessee
executes and takes delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Lease within thirty days from this
date, it will be declared void.
F. B. SUTTOE.
No. 1000; George Morlcy and others; Portion No.
188; County of Gough, parish of Blair Hill; 20a. : Ap-
plication No. Glen Inncs 80-12 m.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 4th October, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date,
they will be declared void.
F. B. SUTTOE.
Lachlan Mixing District.
No 93; Patrick Hetfernan and another; Portion No.
broad arrow over gl 10; County of Bland, parish of
Gundibindya; 13a.; Application No. Woodstown 2.
Hunter and Macleat Mining District.
No. 519; W. Vauderkolk and another; Portion No.
16; County of Gloucester, parish of Irralong; 4a.; Ap-
plication No. Dungog 10.
OUR PRISON SYSTEM.
REMISSION OF SENTENCES.
BY ONE WHO KNOWS.
Eemission of sentence is one of the fundamental
principles of Mr. Maclean’s scheme, but it acts with
perhaps greater unfairness on the generality of prisoners
than doss any other article of his system. The motive
here, as elsewhere, is good; but a motive, however ex-
cellent, can never justify manifest injustice. The
remission scale for good conduct is this:—A for tho
first time convicted prisoner (male or female) receives a
remission of one-sixth when the sentence is over twelve
mouths and not more than live years; of one-fifth up to
ten years; and of one-fourth if over ten years. A for
the second time convicted prisoner receives half the
above, and those who have two or more convictions
recorded against them of ono mouth and upwards
obtain no benefit therefrom.
• * •
It is positively unbelievable that such a state of
things con exist as this Snooks and Brooks are
caught stealing something, and arc committed tor trial;
but tho Police Magistrate straightway gives Snooks
a month for resisting the constable in tho execution of
his duty. Whoa brought before tho Judge at tho
Quarter Sessions, they get twelve mouths each. One
would naturally think that under the circumstances
Snooks would bo tho more heavily punished man.
Such a supposition, however, would be fallacious. la
tho first place, hecau.se his imprisonment is over twelve
months, he receives “ full rations,” consisting of H lb
bread, 1 lb meat, 8 oz maize for hominy, 8 oz potatoes
and vegetables, and 1 oz sugar; whereas his mate has
to subsist upon § lb bread, 8 oz meat, 8 oz potatoes
and vegetables, 12 cz meal, and has to cat his hominy
wifibont sugar, because ho has onlj got twelve months.
But it does not stop here. What will yon say when
you hear that Snooks, with his thirteen months ac-
Cumulative sentence, leaves his friend Brooks, who has
only got twelve, behind him for five weeks ? lam not
joking. It is really so. As tho rules now stand, a
prisoner must have a sentence of over twelve months to
be allowed a remission for good conduct; and one might
naturally suppose that the great number who luckily
are not heavy criminals, and to whom the Judges award
only twelve months, are harshly, unjustly, at any rate
irrationally, treated. Snooks having thirteen months,
got s a remission of one-sixth or two months an 1 live days,
and consequently geos oat after serving ten months and a
little more than three weeks; while Brooks (who
unfortunately for himself did not assault tho constable)
has to finish his full year ! Can a system in which such
huge anomalies exist with regard to comparatively
unimportant matters be, with any kind of reason,
defended ?
« * •
But there is another aspect, winch presents
phrases quite as curious. Since remission is distinctly
granted for good conduct, it follows that it should bo
curtailed for misconduct. The theory is, as usual,
plausible: but, how does it look in practice?
The Prison Regulations say that for every day a
prisoner is sentenced by tho Visiting Justice or Gaoler
to tho colls, os punishment for a breach of discipline,
ho shall lose three days of his remission ; for any dis-
orderly mark (which may be given by any officer in the
place), two days ; and for want of industry, ono day.
These rules are devised so as to keep the prisoners in
order, and the penalty is somewhat heavy—but the flaw
is this : that while you inflict a severe extra punish-
ment upon the " first-timer,” who, probably, through
inadvertence or ignorance, is caught in some slight
delinquency, the “old hands," or three times con-
victed men, who generally are “ up to all the dodges,”
go comparatively soot free, because they have no re-
mission to lose. I will cite a couple of actual cases to
illustrate the very grave fault embodied in this rule.
• * *
Two men were fighting in ono of tho yards, and
were promptly locked up. When brought before the
Visiting Justice, he gave them seven days cells each—a
very general punishment. One of these prisoners
served a sentence of fifteen months, and the other one
of twelve. By this judgment the former lost three
weeks of his remission; the latter, nothing. Again, on
one holiday, a raid was made upon a party of gamblers.
Three were caught, one with dice, tho second with the
box, and tho third with about a dozen sticks of tobacco
—a larger quantity than any prisoner is allowed to pos-
sess. They had not been seen gambling, but very slight
evidence goes a long way in Darlinghurst; and in this
case, though presumptive, it was ample. They each
got seven days’ cells on bread and water. The affair
was rather a curious one, and as I was an eye-witness,
I can vouch for the equitable effects of this part of the
“ system." The man who had tobacco was a peculiarly
“ smart ** fellow, whom I will designate Pitch.
He had been in prison twice before, and had con-
sequently no remission to expect. His sentence
was three years. The man who had the dice
was “doing” twelve months. Let ns call him
Twitch. He had no remission to lose, although he
had never been in gaol 1 ofore. He was not criminal
anongh to deserve it 1 Tho third. Hitch, did not play
at all. When the warders rushed into the yard to try
to catch tho players, the man in whose baud tho box
was at the moment (a very accomplished player, too—a
“ lifer,") threw it in among the crowd that always sur-
rounds, and in a manner guards, the performers ; and
Hitch, catching it, put it into his pocket * He, of
ovurse, pleaded that ho had never played in his life,
but (as I quite admit) tho circumstantial evidence was
dead against him, he also had to undergo the seven
days, which in itself would have been of no conse-
quence, were it not for the afterclap. Ho was serving
a sentence of eighteen months ; was a “first timer” —
had been a clerk and embezzled tome money, was,
from at least a prison point of view, a very
decent young fellow—and was, therefore, entitled
to a remission of three months. While two of
the three culprits inercly suffered the inconvenience of
seven days’ solitary confinement on bread and water,
poor Hitch had to stop three weeks longer in gaol!
THE RATION SCALE
is the next subject to which I wish briefly to call
attention. The matter is au intricate one, and must bo
Cinly stated to be intelligible to my readers. Let ns
in at the bottom of the ladder and proceed upwards.
Say that John Jones is summarily convicted, and re-
ceives a sentence of from 48 hours to one month —ho
has to live upon Coz. potatoes, l2oz. of meal, made into
hominy, and 12oz. biead daily. He gets no soup, no
sngar, and only on Wednesdays and Sundays a bit of
meat, to wit, four ounces. And here I enter a protest
against a piece of really harsh procedure. Tho regulations
direct that any man who receives a sentence of seven
days and upwards (even in default of a fine) shall be
clean shaved. It has often grieved me to reflect that
there is, always has been, and perhaps ever must bo, one
law for the rich and another for the poor. Tho
well. dressed man of good social position drinks,
perhaps, champagne, becomes excited, and commits a
fault for which he is liable to arrest. Perhaps he is
arrested —perhaps the police, instead of arresting,
merely summon him. But, in any case, oven if a
heavy fine be imposed, he has a better opportunity of
paying it than has the less fortunate labourer, who
spends his humble shilling in an excess of maddening
spirits, and gets little pits from either police or magis-
trates. It is bad enough for an honourable mm, who,
through an excess of conviviality, has committed a
fault on which society looks so lightly that it ostensibly
gives him the option of either fine or imprisonment—it
is bad enough, I say, that he should have to go to gaol
because he is poor. But it is a still more deplorable
law which, while it subjects him to the degradation of
prison because his pockets are empty and the usurious
furniture broker holds a bill of sale over his humble
household, also makes him bear, for perhaps months
subsequent to his release, the marks of his degradation
—-the evidence of his poverty. I have seen a man 40
yean of age actually cry like a child because he was
shorn of his sheik-like beard. He was a digger who,
being intoxicated (although he was not so charged), had
been arrested in a right-of-way for “indecent exposure,”
and fined £2 or a mouth. Having no friends, and
having, in some manner unknown to himself, got rid of
his money, he had to “do” tho time. And how that
man prayed for his beard 1 Ay, as I, similarly situated,
would have prayed for mine, were ever prayers heard in
such places. The loafer and vagrant who is supposed
to be punished by the clipping of his beard, does not
care a straw, whereas many who merely suffer imprison-
ment for a row or the like, under “ levy and distress”
are really made martyrs. Whan it is remembered that
the man who undergoes six in mths is allowed to grow
his beard for two months prior to his discharge, and
that those above that stage are similarly allowed three
months prior to their discharge, it seems worse than
absurd that the lesser offender should bo made to
suffer a deprivation which very few fail to feel.
t * »
Well, John Jones, as I said, is allowed to vege-
tate upon what is prisonically termed “ a spud a day,”
while Richard Smith, who has got twelvemonths, has
the allowance mentioned in my second paragraph. But
what of Tom Robinson, who has got four years, and is
now in his second ? Being a heavy offender against
the law, he is, of course, a pillar of the “ system,” and
is, therefore, encouraged. The poor devil who, for
some trifling offence, gets three or six months, has to
mumble his crusts, while Mr. Robinson (who may or
may not be one of the worst of his class) lives in com-
parative plenty. Let ns see what he gets to eat, on
account of his noraonal merit, as a bigger criminal than
John Jones and Richard Smith. He gets roast beef
once a week (the others have to be content with boiled
beef—and, trust me, it is ns much spoiled in the cook-
ing as it is the power of mortal man to do, every prin-
ciple of nutriment being upset by throwing the often
not ovor-clcan meat into boiling water, and never, never
faking off the horribly dirty scum on tho surface of
the soup). Every day ho gets kishominy with sugar, and
a full pound of meat, an ! he gets moreover, mutton as a
change, once a week; further, a quarter of a pound of tea
and an extra pound of sugar a wees:, with two ounces
of tobacco. Who, if inclined that way, would not
‘‘stretch a point” to got a longer sentence than
twelve months, so as to have the benefit of the good
things going? And I can assure you there are people
who never go in for olfoneos “worth” less than two
years, for that very reason,
# » *
Tho principle which condemns n, minor offender
to heavier punishment than the greater, is false in
inception and fallacious to the uttermost degree in
practice. lam quite aware that the idea is that tho
small fry of crime should thereby bo frightened off to
other shores, but it has proved au error. One of two
things happens. Either tho prisoners who. by tho
regulations, are entitled to the larger scalo of ration*,
are robbed of their share, or tho others must starve ;
for it should bo borne in mind (and carefully, too,)
that, short rations or full rations, the prisoner is ex-
pected to nerform the same amount of “ hard labour.”
I remember just now half a dozen instances where men
have been punished—notably, two “ strikers " in tho
blacksmith shop (whore one has to work hard) —because,
alleging that “ a spud a day” gave them not sufficient
strength, they declined to work “ hard.” They pre-
ferred a pound and a half of bread in “solitary,” with
water and leisure, to three-quarters of a pound with
“tho spud” and hard labour—the former being tho
quantity allowed to prisoners under punishment
whether in light or dark cells.
« # »
Perhaps the greatest incongruity that exists
inside Darlinghurst Gaol (and there are a good many)
is that between the criminals and husbands in “ for
maintenance.” Though this matter does not strictly
belong to tho subject of “ Our Prison System,” I hope
and trust my words will do something in the way of
effecting a change. As the law now stands, if a man
disagrees with his wife and is adjudged to pay her main-
tenance of (say) ten shillings a week, he can, by two
magistrates, be required to procure security for the
due fulfilment of that contract for twelve months,
failing which he is sent to gaol for a similar period.
A good many cannot find suah bail, and they are cant
to the care of Mr. Ecid. And, some times, it is
hard excessively hard. I will again quote
cases. Briggs • had paid maintenance for his wife for
nine mouths out of the twelve (fifteen shillings a week,
I believe), when he got out of work and failed to fulfil
his enforced engagement. He was brought up as a
defaulter, and the clearsighted Justices demanded that
he should find securities —or otherwise be imprisoned—
notfor three months (theremainderof thetermforwhich
the original order was made), but for twelve months !
And, upon my word, he served every day of it. Another,
a tradesman, had lived in a reasonably happy manner
with his wife for twenty-four years, when madame took
in a lodger, who courted her favour, and, it may be,
won it. He complained that the lodger always had
buns or fresh bread and butter at breakfast, whereas he,
the master and real bread-winner, had to be content
with yesterday’s leavings, and there was a shindy about
it. From his conduct in prison, the poor devil appeared
to me to have been a truly hard-working man, and no
drunkard. After sundry altercations he left his wifi,
and took work in a friend’s shop. Xantippe summoned
him for maintenance, although she lived in their own
house, and it was proved she held some £35 in the
Savings Bank. She swore in the Central Police Court
that she had bought the furniture with money borrowed
from her brother, and that it was hers, and not his!
[What of Woman’s Eights, now? I can give data and
scripta for it]. The husband was adjudged to pay a
pound a week—and, he didn’t. He went to Cook’s
River and got employment, and was there duly arrested.
That man, failing to find hail, was incarcerated for
twelve solid mouths, mixed up in contact and forced
to be on friendly terms with men whose superior
(morally) he was in every respect. He had to be on
short rations, had to work hard, and was deprived of
tobacco, which ho used before. Had ho been found
with a “ chew,” either in his pocket or in his mouth, ho
would, at least, have got “three days’ cells.” Is this
right ? Is there a semblance of justice in a “system "
which commits the misdemeanant or defaulter to a
heavier physical punishment than that of the felon ?
An American firm are now turning out buggies
made almost entirely of gaspipe. The fact that a
hollow tube is stronger than a solid shaft is admitted by
all scientific men, and the only matter of surprise is
that no one ever thought before of the wonderful
advantage of gaspipe for tiros, spokes, and axles, which
latter can, of course, be made self-lubricating.
• [There is a Hitch here, and he seems to have been an
accessory after tho fact, and therefore justly liable to
punishment.— Ed.]
♦ Real names given to Editor.


Hotels, Sfec.
11
OBINSON’S FITZROY
W ILHAM ST 3i B E
WOO LLOOMOOLOO.
HOTEL,
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND POSTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cocklum’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolosiai, and American Papers filed.
Tfeneston’s Best initiat'd Table, in one of the best
■ifeU-ed rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
Hotels, fee.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotel*, Sc.
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUARTER CASKS,
AND CASE.
■ : A
AGENT—GEORGE LLOYD,
BRrDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wince, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’e
Wharf, Circular Qnay, will ho retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
W Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kifrkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. I). MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, nil
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £i 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-she Hors,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c., &0., Ac,
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
T
H E
AUSTRALIAN
"HOME" SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
P*
H OSS
(A
c
fn
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is .specially made for that clime, and boars A COPY OP
THE ABOVE DESIGN on tho work-plato. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, wo will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
raO.COO NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 3.—Machine fdPtreadle use only, £6,
No, 3. —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7,
Where Ike Genuine Australian " Homo" Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO..
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
W LOOK POE THE NAM !! 1
JNDIA AND CHINA IE A COMPANY,
705 GEOHGE-STREBT,
HAYMARKET.
Our “STAR OP INDIA TEAS” renowned
for their fine AROMA, PUNGENCY, and GRIP.
Packed fresh on tho premises every day, in slb.,
lib., and 31b. packets, and retailed at the follow,
iug prices:—ls. 3d., Is. 6J., 25., 2s, 6d., 3?., and
4s. per lb.
WE ALSO OFFER SUPERIOR SUGARS and
GENERAL GROCERIES cheap for cash.
R. OLIVER,
Manager.
w
H. ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
313 AND 315 KENS-STBEET, NEAB KING-STHEET.
I,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned
R. Wluttingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Boncraft & Co.)
Swallow and ArielTs Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Sou’s Victoria Toilet and Mbttlod Soap
Dillon & Harrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulburn Baking Powders and
Sauce.
313 and 315 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
Hotels, be.
aIHE COMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
. OF PITT-STEEET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior “Alcock” table,
is under the management cf a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
stall of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACE HAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity Catering (J imp an it,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cafe, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and BESTAUEANT for Gentlem m.
EEFEESHMENT BOOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONEEY of tho purest description,
GUAEANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATEEING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire,
HA S. R. g'MITH,
MANAGER.
F
OLEY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BEIDGE STEEET,
(Opposite Bulletin Office.)
E. W. FOLEY, PROPRIETOR,
BOARD AND RESIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIARDS.
Money.
U
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES: 760 GEORGE STEEET (first floor),
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons,
Hours—!) to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
security, payable by instalments, as follows
£lO by weekly instalments of ... £0 6 0
15 6
20 (10 6
25 0 12 6
30 10 0
50 15 0
And in due proportion up to JEICO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not able to transact business during tha
day, tho offices will be open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, first floor,
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sous.
TO SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONEY LENT on mortgage of properties, in suma
of frsm £5 to £5OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without tho necessity
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager. UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 Qeorge-strect, Hay-
market.
y j ONDON
MORTGAGE, LOAN, AND
DISCOUNT BANK,
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James*
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages npon easy terms—UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussincss is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OP SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annul-
ties. Personal effects, &c.,
AND UPON AMY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acceptances, &c., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
FORMS GRATlS—Address, THE SECRETARY.
London Lean and Discount Bank, 109 Eiizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
LOANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
moderate rates, on *ll kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 93 Castlereagk-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
TyrONEY ADVANCED TO ANY AMOUNT,
XYJ. -WITH or WITHOUT SECURITY,
at Moderate Interest, and easy terms of repayment,
No delay. All transactions he’d strictly private.
MR. G. W. GODWIN,
178 Pbillip-strcet North, near King-streot,
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STREET.
JpiANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC,
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, end MUSIO
WAREHOUSE.
Tho stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from tho best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Brard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, &o.
American Organs by the Best Makers.
J. Massey and Son offer all those at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may bo had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
Tha latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
. ■
m
tm
Ip^li
fesg^SsSgS
; «?■ : S
'/!■“:' i
;* • ■
V : >
E£?
tS
■ ■: s
: ssss
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The SuM oi U. UoM & 66;
Is on every Genuine Bottle.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIR6OE, CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
EM
RIfJ3
a*qg
HD
HD
BtM
■■.ft-’.-/
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in .small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of tho
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 16 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,7nD CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
Jjl MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen,
ALBURY WINES.
PORT MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
IALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to tho awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks ef all varieties,
and tho public may rely upon gelling any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Drfot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Those Wines wore awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
Loudon International 1863
Paris ~ 1864
Vienna „ ... 1873
Philadelphia „ 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Reieling Aucarot I Shiraz Hnrmitagt
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinot Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
JpLATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINGS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, ko.
ALEXANDER BORTIiWICK, 281, GEOSGE-ST,
IT ianot the clearness or condition alone of Bui) Dos
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation, Common bitter crude beers nro made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, tho fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ala, Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent tho common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, J, E. GATTELL and
CO., Solo Agents,
m.n
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
S
Ibis favourite branded
T O U
T
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO-, Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole A gents. 0
THOMAS WE ARNE,
ENGINEER & IRONPOUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and E AIL WAY KOLLING STOCK,
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
IBOXES,
&c., &c.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, ‘J3O PITT STREET.
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
PROOF
SAFES
AND
DOOES.
ESTABLISHED ISS7.
pOWLEE’S POTTERY
AND
BRICE WORKS,
CAMPEEDQWN. NEAR SYDNEY.
Priea List on application.
JM'M I N N AND C 0.,
• AUCTIONEERS, PRODUCE MERCHANTS,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
alea promptly rendered. Intercolonial, Shipping, and
ountry Orders executed with despatch.


"THE POOR PLAYER ."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
Mrs. Hermann Vezin was formerly Miss Tilly
Thompson, a native of Launceston Lewis’s Academy
Of Music, at Mooroopna, Vic., with its contents, includ-
ing the paintings of an Australian panorama, valued
alone at over £6OO, was entirely destroyed by fire on
Saturday In Brisbane, the other evening, an ama-
teur appeared at a concert. He sang a verse and a half
of “ Hear me, gentle Maritana,” but finding that this
amiable lady was not listening, he bowed politely to the
audience and slid. Loud applause followed, but it was
not for the amateur The second best amateur cornet
player in the world played at the Carandini benefit in
the Albert Hall. His private means are such as to pre-
vent him becoming a professional. “Ye take too much
upon you, ye sons of Levi," when amateurs like Ander-
son are to be heard Clara Stephenson was recently
at Forbes. “ Ixion ” and “ Our Boys.” “The Ameri-
can Old Folks Minstrel Company” played, the other
night, at Campbelltown, to half-a-dozen rustics, a good
collection of forms, and the chandelier The late
Walter Sherwin was the first Don Ccesar de Bazan in
Australia At latest dates, the Lynchs (Bellringers),
were at Maryborough It is said that the subscription
for J. C. Williamson’s comic opera season in Adelaide
amounted to £l2OO Herr Bandmann, to insure the as-
sistance of the best theatrical agent in Australia,
offered handsome terms to E. S. Smythe, who came out
with him 12 years ago ; but the “much-travelled ’’ had
determined to go to Europe—although he is still here.
Mrs. F. M. Bates and Miss Dickie Lingard have
been playing in “ The Octoroon ” in Chicago, the former
as Zoe, the latter as the yellow boy, Paul From
Queensland we hear that, after a six months’ retirement,
doing "life” business, Lance Booth returns to the
stage, joining Grattan Eiggs for a tour in Northern
Queensland. The company embraces Eiggs, Booth,
Martin, Tyrrell, Scott, Norgrove; and Mesdames
Edwards, St. Clair, Lovell, Vernon, &c Thynne
we hear, has sold out his share in the Theatre Eoyal to
a Brisbane lawyer The Oliver-Seagrave combination
are to show in the capital shortly, prior to disbanding.
The Brisbaneites didn’t like Wilhelmj because he did
not play familiar airs According to the letter of
Harry Lynch, published in the Towers Herald, the
bellringers were not well patronised at Charters Towers,
because there is but a slight partition between the hall
and the reading-room of the School of Arts, and gentle-
men found it much more convenient and cheaper to
listen from the latter The “ Stray Leaves” Com-
pany must have done well at Bourko. Mies Carrington,
in giving a benefit to the hospital, handed over the doors
to the committee and paid the expenses herself.
♦ # #
Two boys called Clutsam—one 14, and one 12—
pianist and tenor respectively, have lately appeared at
the Princess’s Theatre, under the auspices of their ma.
They appear to be very clever, and are, we are told,
shortly to travel. One, the younger, is described as “of
the Alexandra Palace," while the pianist has apparently
no professional antecedents. Their name, however, is
rather against them. They had better call themselves
the De Persigny Mendelssohns, without delay. Then
they’ll be in it “ His Eoyal Highness Albert Edward
Prince of Wales may be said to know a good thing
when he sees it. He has been full of appreciation for
Mdlle. Jeanne Granier.” Thus the Eeferee. Well, if
Mdlle.’s pictures are to be believed, H.E.H. must have
seen a good deal of Granier Says Edmund Tates, in the
World, of Haverly’s black minstrels, now performing at
Her Majesty’s Theatre, London;—“l suppose there are no
such banjo players in the world as the brothers Bohee,
who are being sought out by amateurs for lessons. The
music which they contrive to evolve from their once-
despised instruments is marvellous —all the more
extraordinary, too, from the fact that the Bohees are
self-taught and play entirely by ear.” Edward Terry
is doing big things in the English provinces, and has
recently at Dublin and Belfast produced with immense
success, a new drama, called “ New Brooms,” written
specially for him, we believe, by H. J. Byron. By all
accounts, this is one of the funniest things H. J. B. has
done The cast of Stephens’ and Soloman’s “ Claude
Duval, or, Love and Larceny,” at the Olympic, London,
includes the names of Arthur Cecil, Charles Ashford, F.
Celli, George Powell, Miss Marion Hood, and Miss
Edith Blande. It was produced on 20th August It
is recorded that McCullough recited before the Princess
of Wales, at a reception given by the Duchess of
Manchester, and that he made the future Queen of Eng.
land weep. We know another tragedian who nearly did
that for us. We don’t mean Defries It is reported
that it cost J. H. Haverly the nice little sum of 2500
dols. to bring his coloured minstrels to England. The
price for carrying a black man, it appears, is as big as
for a white one A ’Frisco paper, commenting on Joe
Emmett’s “ Ten Nights in a Bar-room,” saysheis often
found one night in ten bar-rooms In June, Sarah
Bernhardt commenced a six weeks’ tour of the French
provinces. TShe received £3003 for thirty-five perform-
ances. On Oct. 15 she quitted Paris] on her tour of
Europe Mr. and Mrs. Bancroft re-opened the Hay.
market last month with Tom Taylor’s admirable
comedy, “ Plot and Passion,” when Mies Ada Caven-
dish joined the company. A new opera boutfe called
“ Gibraltar,” produced at that house while the Ban-
crofts were doing their country tour, was an utter
failure.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Gaiety Theatre, looking as bright and smart
as a young belle at her first drawing-room, was once
again opened to the public on Saturday evening last.
There is, perhaps, no theatre in Sydney whose name is
associated with more pleasant memories than the
pretty little house in Castlereagh-street. We have
fresh in our recollection the demoniac little Qailp of
the versatile Fred., the musical triumphs of Kowalski,
the brilliant comedy season of Mr. Wybert Reeve, and
the capital performances of the Montagne-Turner
Opera Company. All these, first-class entertainments.
The enterprise of the management has, since the open-
ing of the theatre, been rewarded with a very large
return of popular favour—the Gaiety being now quite a
household word in the city.
• * *
Additional interest was attached to the re-open-
ing of the theatre, from tho fact that Mr. L. M Bay-
less, who is now the sole lessee, had announced that he
had, during the “recess” effected important improve-
ments in the auditorium. In order to allow his friends
an opportunity of viewing these embellishments, Mr.
Bayless, on Friday evening last, invited a number of
people to visit the theatre, and ho regaled them with
Krug and cakes —an arrangement which appeared to be
feelingly appreciated by the gentlemen of the Press.
Whether, however, viewed through a glass of cham-
pagne or with the gaze of impartiality, it must be
admitted by all that quite a little palace has been made
of the place. All the downstairs portion of the house
has been fitted with folding chairs on the American
plan, and the gods have been relegated to the circle—
from which coign of vantage they can suck the luscious
orange, and crack the Barcelona nut, without interfer-
ing with the comfort of white-tied and spectacled “art-
critics,” and the Darling Point contingent, who, it is
popularly believed, come to the theatre arrayed in
nothing commoner than silk stockings and diamond
“ Lady Salisbury’s,” and who, like Dickens’s heroine,
11 can’t abear anything that’s low.” As it is one of the
misfortunes of our readers to have to glance at our
daily contemporaries, in which fall descriptions of
various improvements have been characteristically set
forth, we will content onrselvos with saying that.'a large
amount of money has been expended with the most
successful results, and that the appearance of the
theatre, with its variegated satin seats, gleaming cande-
labras, and other embellishments, is exceedingly bright
and beautiful.
« • »
The opening programme was a strong one. It
consisted of “ Mother-in-Law,” anew comedy (and a
great London success) by George R. Sims, and an
extravaganza—“ The Corsican Brothers,” by H. J.
Byron. From a literary point of view, Mr. Sims’
comedy is quite n triumph—the dialogue being one
running fire of the oddest quips and cranks ever
evolved out of a tortured language; land its dramatic
construction is no less ingenious. Although the
author, we believe, claims entire originality for his
play, it is impossible not to note that, if he is not
directly Indebted to, ho has, at any rate written on the
model of the Palais Royal farces of Meilhac and
Halevy, Chivot and Duru, Clairville and Siraudin, and
others of the same facetious school. The wildest
farcical effects of situation and dialogue abound. No
harlequinade was fuller of surprises than Mr. Sims’
piece. No minstrel farce —not even the immortal dog
of “Slocum” —ever evoked wilder hursts of laughter.
“ Mother-in-Law” is—as mothers-in-law not unfre-
quentiy are —all bustle. The surprise business, in-
geniously managed by every set being fitted with a
multitude of doors, is so well worked up, that towards
the end of the play the entry of each character calls
forth a burst of the most uproarious merriment. As
afarcioal-comedy.l “ Mother-in-Law” may ho written
down a complete success, and
If lovely men and pretty women.
Can make a comedy go swimmin’ ;
Diamond eyes and gorgeous dresses.
Gleaming teeth, and golden tresses,
Twinkling feet that “ get” the pit.
Dialogue brimming o’er with wit, —
If all these things but tend to draw.
There’s lots of coin in “ Mother-in-Law,”
* • ♦
The cast -was, in many respects, a strong one
Mr. Dampier, an artist of great and acknowledged
ability, making his rentrSe in the part of Percy D'Al-
maine; Mr. Richard Stewart, a low comedian of re-
pute, being specially engaged for Major Mungo
M’Turtle ; Miss Araie Adere, a new arrival from Eng-
land, making her debut as Rosa Matilda ; and Miss
late Adere (specially engaged) playing Topsy Grey;
the other characters being represented by the best
talent available to tho management. Curiously
enough, however, tho principals (we are speaking from
a professional point of view) have in many cases less
to do then the performers of subordinate rank—
Mr. Dampier, for instance, contenting himself with
a part of only moderate importance. He plays it, how-
ever, with great effect, and was accorded a reception on
his first appearance which, for cordiality and genuine
enthusiasm, has seldom, if ever, been equalled in the
annals of the Australian drama. Mr. Richard Stewart
enacted the peppery and piteously-involved old Major
with much humour, the performance being, in our
opinion, a considerable advance on his Barnaby Double-
chick. Mr. Harry Emmett, though apparently a little
nervous, was effective as Talfourd Twig, and Mr. A.
Boothman appeared to greater advantage than ever we
have seen him as Pounceby. Always letter-perfect, he
infused an amount of spirit into the part that was very
refreshing to contemplate, and altogether his imper-
sonation of the legal punster may be written down a
genuine success.
« * «
Mr “ Norman Vane,” to whom wag entrusted
the r61e of Jauaway, a theatrical manager, cannot be
complimented upon his performance, which was, in no
instance, more exhilarating than a domestic affliction.
* # *
Miss Amie AdPre’s Rosa Matilda wag full of
life and merriment. The lady, herself, is—
Fair, fresh-tinted, rather tall;
Of form that is most symmetrical;
Large eyes of blue —a sunny smile ;
Teeth that a hermit would beguile ; —
In short, we’ll give the gods’ decision: —
" Rosa Matilda is a wision.”
Unless wo are mistaken, this lady will be seen to better
advantage (and this is also the cose with Mr. Dampier)
in heavier pieces. She was, however, very successful.
Miss Kate Adere had a deal to do as Topsy, the actress,
and proved herself to ha no novice in her art. She
dressed charmingly, and looked divine. Miss Marion
Melrose was great fun as Mrs. Pounceby, and developed
as genuine a talent for farce, as the lawyer’s jealous wife,
as she did for pathos in her loug-to-be-remembored im.
personation of “Little Nell.” Miss Howarth looked
charming as a stage chambermaid, and Miss Jenny
Horan exhibited much sprightliness as an attendant at
the “ Frivolity Theatre.”
• • ♦
Tho Mother-in-Law of Miss M. Melville was a
performance which we have very much pleasure in
highly commending. Her make-up was exceedingly
artistic, and she not only knew every line of her own
part, and speke and acted with great ability and finish,
but appeared to he unremitting in her attention to such
of her Thespian sisters and brothers ns had not
quite broken the backs of the many “sides" with
which they had been entrusted. The stage manager
was the redoubtable Mr. J. H, Eainford, and the piece
was fairly, though by no means extravagantly, mounted,
* * *
The aesthetic burlesque which followed—Byron’s
“ Corsican Brothers ” —though entertaining in parts,
suffered from insufficient rehearsals, and by reason of
the audience not having, up to the present time, been
sufficiently educated in aesthetics to grasp all Mr.
Byron’s points, and enter into his peculiar humour,
was not so successful as might have been anticipated.
Mr. Dampier’s imitation of Bandmann was not distinctly
recognized, and _ however handsome and lively Miss
Adore can lay claim to be, she is not particularly strong
" on the sing." Mr. Richard Stewart (who had had, we
understand, only a few rehearsals) was completely at
sea as Chateau-Eonard, but will, of course, have pulled
up before this notice appears. Miss Maggie Forde was
rather a mild De Maynard, and a moustache she in-
sisted upon wearing, gave her an appearance which was
decidedly more bizarre than prepossessing. Miss
Theresa Horan developed considerable talent in the
representation of a very heavy swell called Montgiron,
and proved herself to be the lucky possessor of plenty
of confidence, abundance of good looks, and a clear
resonant voice — desiderata, be it remarked, which are
indispensable to the successful d5but of a young
actress. Miss Melrose was another heavy card, and
looked immense as usual. Mr. Harry Emmett played
Orlando in an astounding make up, with some effect;
and Mr. A. Boothman enacted a bandit in reduced
circumstances with much humour. The scenery was
good, and the properties very funny. Madame Dei
Franchi was entrusted to Mr. Norman Vane, who
played it ia a very grotesque make up. The effect of
his lines, however, was much marred by the persistent
manner in which ha indulged in feeble clowning.
# # *
“ Mother-in-Law ” is, of course, the piece
de resistance, and would, by itself, constitute a great
attraction, without any after piece at all. With a little
more drilling, however, the burlesque will run merrily
enough.
* * * *
D’Arcy Read’s “Ghost” is a very popular
entertainment for many reasons. In the first place,
the genial old party who enacts Rumtifoozle in “ Beauty
and the Beast ” draws like a fly-blister, and the mild,
not to say benevolent. Beast is nightly tho idol of
admiring thousands. Add to this that the histrionic
ability displayed by D’Aroy himself in the “ Haunted
House.” reminds greybeards, like ourselves, of the
great Snevellici, when both that gifted man and the
Coburg were in their prime, and that Little Annie is
tho Fanny Elssler of the future, and our readers will at
once see that the Ghost’s the thing to catch the eon.
science of—if not the King—at least a sober and dis-
criminating public. There is a change of programme
this week, and the Phantom Christys will once again
hold high wassail, and the devil will revel in the mystic
domicile.
• * *
We commend this entertainment especially to
those young people, the state of whose affections in-
cline them to hold silent communion with each other.
We went to the Victoria Hall, the other night, and
were quite surprised to see what a number of different
fellows’ sisters there were, accompanied by other
fellows. The Hall is quite dark during the perform-
ance, and the conduct of the audience was most
exemplary, the majority of the people appearing too
high-toned to laugh even at tho jokes of our own
patriarch. Suddenly the curtain came down on the
first part, and the lights went up on the interval. The
change was suddenly and cruelly dons, and as Mr.
Sydney Hall, the business-manager, has been on the
broad grin ever since, we feel very much inclined to
impeach him on the count of mischievously fooling with
the meter. Tho effect of the sudden illumination was
very surprising—so much so that we will trespass on
Abe for three stars, and give it in a fresh section.
# * *
To the right of us was a gentleman well known
in legislative circles, who was playfully popping straw-
berries into the open mouth (rather a large one) of a
young lady,who bore a striking resemblance (accidental,
of course) to the Hebe of a neighbouring hostelrie.
In front, a stout lady was giving sustenance to a re-
markably healthy baby, while her husband was taking
large semi-circular bites out of a triangular tart, and
gazing, with an appearance of great pride, upon his
suckling image. To the left was revealed to our eagle
eye a prepossessing young woman, who had let her
head fall on the martial shoulder of one of the de-
fenders of our hearths and homes ; while a little way
behind, another couple defied the laws of space and
gravity by both seating themselves on one small chair.
Altogether, the picture was both entertaining and in-
struotive. When a few of our pretty cousins come
down from the country, or the next immigrant ship
comes in, we shall most likely he on hand ourselves,
with a dark girl dressed in blue and a bag of barley
sugar.
** * *
“Tambour-Major” was revived on Saturday
night at tho Eoval, and drew, as we anticipated, a
crowded house. The oast was not improved, either by
the substitution of Mr. T. Grundy for Mr. Hallewell or
by that of Miss Agnes Consuelo for Miss Maggie LHdle.
Still, on the whole, the opera went with much spirit,
and the welcome its revival received was exceedingly
cordial. In this piece. Miss Nellie Stewart completely
holds her own; and if the management can make it
convenient in future productions to cast her for parts
of this description, there will boa lot of money in the
lively little lady. While there was nothing new to
notice in tho piece behind, the brigade in front cele-
brated tho re-appearance of their officers by the lowest
of waistcoats, tho whitest of ties, and tho highest of
shirt-collars. After the piece was over, there was tho
usual muster of sighing swains outside. We went down
and had a look at them, and we enjoyed ourselves
immensely. It was but, come, slaves of the Muse 1
A glass of absinthe and the lyre. Thanks. Here goes
then:—
A writer in a Bathurst paper—probably an
“art-critic"—in speaking of the “Tambour-Major"
crowd at the Royal, says:—“One wonders how Mus-
grove came to know about so many beautiful girls, but
anyhow he got ’em, and we enjoy a * look, but mustn't
touch,’ three hours every night.” Three hours every
night 1 It is no wonder, then, that tho appalling effect
of this nightly gloating upon tho mind is apparent in
the outpourings of the brain. If Mr. Mnsgrove has,
beneath that beautifully boiled linen, the feelings of a
father, he will instantly stop this poor young creature’s
free list. Let him act while yet the last ray of reason
flickers within tho poor fellow’s jobbernowl. Heaven
and the angels will reward him 1
* * * *
The Dwarf and the Magnetic Lady are again on
view at the Victoria Theatre, but the Giant has seceded
from the company, and is, report has it, about to
contract an alliance with a young lady of fortune.
Happening to drop into the show, the other day, in
order to pay our respects to Dominic, and kiss the
hand of the magnetic lady, Mr. Solomon, with that
courtesy the fame of which is more than antipodean,
made us acquainted with the Giant’s young lady. She
was at that moment presenting him with a chaste and
elegant token of her devotion in the shape of a plug of
tin-tag, while he, in return, handed her his pocket-
handkerchief, giving her instructions to carry it to a
friend who was short of material for the roof of his
circus tent. The marriage will take place shortly at
the Wesleyan Church, Balmain, as it is rumoured that
after the circus, Rob Roy will present the minister
with his tooth-pick, with permission to utilize it as a
flag staff. The Dwarf and his blushing bride stand fast
to Ikey, who, it is rumoured, is going to stand god-
father—but let us not anticipate.
* * * *
Miss Pomeroy has been a tremendous draw in
New Zealand. We see by a bill that has been for-
warded to us that she appeared on the 15th ult. in
“ Shakspeare’s (sic) Grand Spectacular Play, en-
titled “ Led Astray !” We suppose H. J. Byron’s
farcical-comedy of “ Cymbeline ” will bo her next dart,
with Ben Jonson’s “ Slasher and Crasher ” as an
after-piece.
• * •
The company includes our juvenile friend Wil-
liam Hoskins, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Holloway (Miss
Kate Arden), Herbert Fleming, that giddy young
spark J. J. Wallace, and Miss Jessie Grey—which
young lady, it is needless to say, has tamed, as usual,
all the critics into gushers. How is it, by the way, that
we never see Miss Jessie in Sydney ? There is plenty
of room for both the sisters here. We shall bo savage
if she don’t come; but we can never be Ruth-less.
For she is even now in this lovely city.
* * *
Horace Bent writes us that his nigger troupe is
doing beautifully in New Zealand. The company
includes Miss Amy Rowe, the Hugos (2), Beaumont
Read (of course I), our thin friend, Fredericks, W.
Ball, and others as yet unknown to us, and (conse-
quently) unknown to fame.
* * * * 1
On the 29th ultimo, the Rockhampton Rowing
Club gave a concert and a distribution of gifts at the
School of Arts. The tickets was five shillings, and the
music embodied in the jingling of the German silver
watches and cruet-stands was much admired. The
greatest instrumental success was an arrangement of
“ Home, Sweet Home,” which was played with much
taste and exquisite feeling by a musical snuff-box con-
tributed by a local watchmaker. The affair was a
great success, and tho club will now lay on another
boat, regardless of the peace of mind of the pensive
alligator.
» « «
Talking of North Queensland, the Oliver-Sea-
grave company seem to have made that place quite a
hom e. If they stay up there much longer, we shan’t
be surprised to hear of W. H. putting up for Alderman,
or Maggie getting on the committee of the Hospital.
It appears, by the way, that Mies Maggie Oliver couldn’t
agree with Miss Marian Melrose, who was until re-
cently a member of the troupe.
Maggie used to want to star.
In letters long, her cherished name.
And flaming handbills scatter far,
Thus getting all the fat and fame.
Now, Melrose couldn't see the force
You see, of Maggie’s “little game,”
F®r she desired to “ star,” of course,
Uer appellation just the same.
And so—thus our informant writ it—
Nell and Maggie couldn’t hit it.
The Palmers, however, are yet to the fore, and business
is reported fair. Like Mr. Weller, they “ eat their
biled mutton without capers, and don't care for horse-
radish when they can get beef.”
* * * *
There is nothing new from Melbourne of any
importance. Mr. Harkins’ Hamlet, “Adagio” of the
Weekly Times states, is not one “which would excite the
brain or fire tho h^art; but, oa the ether hand, it will
appeal to the intelleet as the result of very close obser-
vation, and in some instances clever applications of the
text. It is, perhaps, a just compliment to say of Mr.
Harkins that his complete subjection of self is the most
admirable part of his assumption; as. on the other
hand, his hyper-naturalness is the chief bar to a great
dramatic success.” This ki ad of wri ting is rather vague.
What we want to know is whether Mr. Harkins is a
good Shakspearian actor or whet her he is not. Before
Mr. Dewhurst came hero, this sort of thing was
shovelled over to us fro t Victoria by the bushel, and
we were even told that “Ins impersonation of the
melancholy Dane was one which denoted careful study,
great natural intelligence, and undoubted dramatic
ability.” Wo forget tho hnmonrht who wrote this, just
now, but we remember the express ion perfectly. It would
seem, indeed, that there art, ftl- R ourne critics who, like
those on the Sydney dailies, shrink—through commer-
cia', or other, reasons—from closely criticising any
theatrical performer. The theory, however, resolves
itself into this: the critic must either write the truth
or that which is not truo. So far as we are concerned,
we shall write the truth until wn see the workhouse
looming in the distance. When that day comes (it is
a good way off at present) wo may commence puffing
bogus actors and giving young ladies who have only
beautiful legs credit for possessing beautiful eyes and
beautiful voices.
* * •
We know of Mr. Harkins just what we have
read—no more; and as we are so rarely d'accord with our
brother-critics, who seem to have reduced the art of jam-
plastering to a science, it is possible that we shall see
in that gentleman an actor of uncommon merit. In any
case, we shall reserve to ourselves the right of letliug
our readers know just what we do think of him. We ara
not of those (to quote Churchill)
** Who meanly tremble at a puppet’s frown,
And for a playhouse freedom lose their own.”
• » •
Bandmann seems to have “ got them ” as “ Nar-
cisse,” and the youngs»ers are still drawing all the
town with “ Tambour-Ms j >r.” Wilhelmj is appearing
in a second series of cone ris, with an orchestra and
chorus. Miss Conron and Mr. Max Vogrich are still
with the great virtuoso.
* * * *
The lady " midget ” weighs five pounds—
(No one in Sydney ever saw-rer) ;
South’s Pirates was a great success.
The local “ rag ” says, at Temora.
Professor Pepper is at O vmpio
(One season there has him sufficed),
With Emma E 'trera "rposition,
Showing in “ The Life of Christ.”
* * * *
Nothing fresh from Adelaide. Eternal “ Pina-
fore," with changes of cast; but they don’t seem to
give our very own Jose, bine a show as her namesake.
Thus we have no interest in the performance. Mr.
Harkins succeeds the Opera Company, at the conclu-
sion of which Mr. Allison goes to England, whither ho
has been announced to have departed about ten times
during three months. Such is the interest, you see,
that a grovelling public takes in great men.
• * «
The Georgias are doing a good business at Gar-
ner’s Theatre, d ce qu’il parent. Wolfe is announced ns
the manager, and we trust ho is doing well, since he is
(in two ways) about tho whitest coloured gentleman the
world ever saw, since Naamau caught tho leprosy
from a Chinese hawker.
* * * *
Levy has been arrested in Now York for bigamy.
His reply lo the clnrgo was that if his first wifo
bothered him he would clear cut. If, however, she let
it slide he would endeavour to let her have some money.
Of course, she let it slide, and then Levy slid to
other dimes with Marianne.
* * * *
Jennie Lee, the clever little actress, who is
stated to be making for Australia, uses the same broom
now in “ Jo ’’—her great success—that she did when
she made her dgbut in Herve’s “ Little Faust,” at the
Lyceum. The property-man of the London Strand,
who is a bard of the Lewis—well, never mind the rest
—calibre, has written “a few lines ” on the subject, of
which the following stanza is a brilliant specimen :—
" In Hervo’s ' Little Faust ’ I used this broom.
When produced at the Lyceum some time ago—
My thoughts on Chailes Dickens then did loom.
To play some day his * Bleak Housi ’ Jo.’ ’
Then later, on Miss Swanborongh giving her employes
at the Strand Theatre their annual picnic, his muse
is again iu labour, and is delivered of the following
monster :—
" Miss Ada Swanborough, Messrs. Edward and
Arthur
Our comforts (as usual) they well looked after.
Mr. Alexander Henderson contributed to our annual
treat.
Success to his new iheatre in Panton-strcet.”
However, Ball is only a property-man, so they let him
live. If he were an “art criiio,” we suppose they
would kill him.
* * * *
A notice of “ Quid Erin,” Mr. Reynolds’ new
play, which was produced at the Queen’s Theatre on
Saturday night, will be found in “ Late Theatrical.”
* * * *
Mr. Duncan Maccallum is now, we hear, the
entrepreneur of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club, and he
left by the Blamang, for Brisbane, to make arrange-
ments for their appearance there. They will do Queens,
land, then throughto New South Wales, until they can
get an opening in Melbourne. We hope the company
will do well, since they are, without a doubt, not t uly
exceedingly clever individually, but practically uu.
rivalled as an harmoa icua combination. The Quintette,
with Duncan to the fore, is in very good hands.
* * * *
Frank Cates is certain of a bumper “ ben.” on
Monday. We undorstmd that np to Tuesday he had
sold 200 tickets, at 7s 61 apiece. This looks well for
Frank’s popularity with tho “ upper crust.” But ns
he is no less a favourite with tho oi dinary groveller and
the great unbathed, the roll-up in the gallery and at
the back of the hall will, of course, ho large. Mdlle
Charbonnet will ploy, Mr. H. R. Woods will sing,
Frank will recite, and, in short, the attractions will bo
numberless. Mr. Cites, we hear, leaves Sydney a
few days after his benefit, to join Mr. Fred Marshall in
Melbourne; but wa should not be surprised to see him
in management, at no distal t date, ia this city. In
any and all spheres of life he has our good wishes.
* * * *
All true lovers of the St. Cecilian art will be
grieved to hear that a painful, but by no means serious,
accident has lately happened to that silvery-throated
Georgia, Billy Wilson It seems Billy was standing
near one of the New Zealand railway lines, when some-
thing tickled his fancy or trod oa his heel, and caused
him to let off a very volcano of a good “guffaw.” A
train happened to he coming a’oug at the time, and the
driver, mistaking Billy’s open month for the static-,
ran all the passenger cars and nine sheep trucks in, ai d
only found his mistake when William “shut down”
his lid, and buried the lot in “ Egyptian darkness. **
* * * *
Mr. Haller, who has taken some theatre in
Gympie, writes to tell ns that the Austrian Band has
disbanded, and wants us to advertise him gratis. We
don t, of course, mind doing professionals a turn
occasionally by keeping their names before the public,
pur, at the 88nas time, we would remind them that an
item in this journal concerning themselves, which may
be (aad, of course, is) of the greatest possible interest
to them personally, possesses but few attractions fir
the public at large. Actors, etc., at a distance, when
they require anything specially mentioned in this
paper, will do well to send aa advertisement card,
with the desire of their hearts inscribed thereon, and
tho • spons” in the envelope to pay for it. We
Rr0 “ ot aware * n what degree Mr. Heller ha» benefited
us, that we shoi Id advertise him for nothing. Can it
bo possible, though, that he is trading on the Austrian
Band ball, at the Girdea Palace, a fairy entertain-
ment for which we parted a guinea, and got nothing for
supper, except some cool check from a dirty waiter,
aid some caviare—we mean guiver—from a garlii.
smelling bandsman, feebly disguised as a master of the
ceremonies. If so, Herr Heller, you are just as mnch
out of your reckoning as (without your good old
’greed”) you will be oat of this paper.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
IN THE DARK.
Oh, to see those cavalie-ahs
Is a lark,
On the look-out for their de-ahs
In the dark;
You would grin to see them all
In a line, jamm’d ’gainst the wall.
In the dark t
Yes, ’tis very droll to see, ah,
Each gay spark.
On the spring for his own de-ah.
In the dark.
With their eyes upon the “ quartah,"
And their coats all over mortah.
In the dark I
What a nice thing for a fellah,
We remark,
To be waiting for his belle—ah,
In the dark.
But the gyurl must feel quite “ small,”
When she sees that form so tall
Crouching close against the wall,
In the dark I


PEPPER AND SALT.
An elevated new chum was seen the other day
wilting down King-street, smoking a meerschaum pipe,
and nursing a baby in long clothes. He said he had
only j ust arrived, and was doing this for a wager. This,
if we mistake not, is the kind of noble colonist who
arrives with a bill of exchange for a sum in two figures,
cashes it, lives high, sleeps at Pfahlert’s hotel for six
nights, and on the seventh sleeps in a boiler. Impecu-
nious new chums are quite a study. We met one two
or three days ago, carrying a half-quartern loaf in a
handkerchief, and a hat-box tied up with a bit of string.
That was his luggage. We asked him where he lived,
and he replied—“on the wharf.” He and “another
fellow,” whose father was “abaronet, by Jove !” lodged
in a boiler on the Circular Quay. You can see the new
chum in his fallen condition, too, at small pubs, near the
Public Library, to which he goes for his half-pint at the
time the biscuits and cheese (on which he principally
subsists) are spread out for general consumption. Some
of them carry about a ragged old letter, thumbed and
greasy with frequent use, in which is set forth that
money will be sent by next mail; and nil have pawn-
tickets innumerable to dispose of. Not long ago, a
good-looking young fellow, very seedy, but decidedly a
new chum, called at the mansion in which we reside,
and the butler being at the time out with the children,
and the first footman scrubbing the kitchen dresser, we
opened the door ourselves. He said he was deuced
hungry, and wanted something to eat. We suggested
work, but he said his hands were too soft. We then
presented him with a shilling, and he tos»k that coin
into his palm with great alacrity, and took himself into
the public-house immediately afterwards. This, in all
probability, was the son of the baronet, by Jove!
. * * *
Last week a man was charged with robbing his
landlord, at Hotbam, Victoria. He pleaded guilty,
but urged, as an excuse, that he was drunk at the
lime. Admonished and discharged. At the Melbourne
Ttmple of Justice, the same day, a respectably dressed
mechanic was charged with indecently assaulting a
little girl. Pleaded guilty, but drunk at time. Ad-
monished and discharged. What a “ messer ” Cain
was not to have murdered Abel over the border I Vic-
Wia is evidently the drunkard’s Paradise. And yet
these benighted heathens once had the benefit of a
tu total “pitch” from onr own teetotal Johnnie.
• • •
V Northern judge again. It was the Supreme
C iirt anpeal sittings, and an important case was on.
Th • bu'ky judge went to sleep, and waking up suddenly
f '«■..! ihe jury-box crowded by a number rf anxious
i ■•tutors, who had no other place to sit in. “The
, you have already beard,” said the judge—and
)■ ■ sgjtin went to sleep. The guilty occupiers of tho
j ■- n • a gradually slid out, and when the judge next
: ■ . u stared at the box where the jury ought to be,
r ’ ••* .!, “The jurors who have left tho Court are
ft ■' (.2 i each " The noble judge entered hisi;deoision
i» i- >!■ >te-book, but thy counsel retained in thejappeal
cx . ha to decided to go “Yankee grab ” for a verdict.
• # #
l ive more cases under weigh for next Divorce
C juit matinee.
“ Par easier much can love be grown
For other's wives than for onr own.”
Mr C i 1 n 11 us, tbo gentleman poet who slung that verse
died 2 jO) years ago. Who’d have thought it!
* # #
Saturday’s Evening News moans as follows:
—“ * What to Eat and How to Cook It,’ is the name of
a book recently published. * What to Eat and Where
to Get It,’ would meet with a livelier sale just now.”
From this wo infer that the “ hot pea and pie-man”
who used to stand in the shade of Alfred’s sanctum has
gone to that lone, dark land where feed is at a discount.
However, if anyone on the staff particularly wants to
know how to “ Got lb,” we would respectfully suggest
that he pay for it Of course, there are other ways,
but they’re rather risky.
* # #
When the King of the Belgians goes to Ostend,
he always gives the station porter a napoleon, and the
Burgomaster ;au order. Parkes appears to conduct
things on very much the same genteel principle.
# « •
Tho case of Stanley Prudence, which was heard
at the Water Police Court, on Friday, is instructive.
He was charged with having taken a " crown” tip to
keep the report of the affiliation case out of the Even-
ing News, when all the time he Lad no power to do any
such thing—having left the staff of that journal He
was committed for trial, bail being allowed in £2O, but
such was the elevated social position of Mr. Prudence,
who had only, on Mr. Hogue’s showing, left the paper a
few days ago, that he bad to go to gaol in default. The
most amusing circumstance in connection with the
matter is, that the prcsecutor, Richard Addison, took
it as a matter of course that, by bribing with a few
shillings any of the Police Court slip-spoilers, he could
keep the case " out of the papers.” No one in Court
appeared to be tho least surprised either at the tenor
of the prosecutor's transaction with the prisoner, or at
tbo smallness of the bribe paid for non-publicity; but
feeling amongst the bystanders was against the man
Prudence, not on account of his having taken the five
shillings, but because he had not carried out his con-
tract.
* » *
Old Fergy has commenced anew gore-and-
graveyard tale in his little oyster-napkin. It com-
mences :—“ From the top of a mountain peak, the
highest accessible point, a solitary man—alone on an
uninhabited island—surveys the sea.” This is rather
hard on the Parramatta Times’ subscribers, to have a
tale with only one man in it, and him, too, on an unin-
habited island. Alfred always starts his romances by
giving the man a girl, any way ; and then he shunts in
a, baroness aud a duke, about the middle of the second
chapter, jnst after the small grocer has told the reader
iu a two-stick par. that he is a pianoforte-tuner in dis-
guise. There is some excitement in this ; but we really
don’t think Fergy’s story will take. John had better
nip it in the bud, and take a run down to Sydney and
get the loan of one of Alfred’s volumes of the Family
Herald. Ho will get any amount of entirely new and
interesling tales out of that.
* « *
It was late at night in an editorial sanctum,
fomowhere in the neighbourhood of B—lank-street.
Friend (who enters, to editor, who is poring over a
proof): “ What are yon doing there ?” Editor : “Jnst
reading for sense.” Visitor: “Waste of time. Let’s
go and have a drink.” Invitation waspishly declined.
• * »
"When the tw) Chinamen had been baptised, the
other day, they walked down the street and met two
European friends. ‘ What makes you look so joyfni?”
enquired one of the Sydney men, seeing that both the
Celestials were on the broad grin. “ Welly good,”
was the reply—“ Now got olisenod. No go to belly.
Go’fardie, go’muddy go to helly.” And with saintly
smiles they both turned into an opium shop.
* • •
Some surprise was created in Adelaide by the
sight of a tipsy policeman. " Down the harbonr,” an
elevated constable would excite no more attention than
a telegraph pole. We would not answer for the conse-
quences, however, were a crusher to destine a drink.
Iu tbo reign of Charles 11., when Sir Edmondbury
Godfrey was murdered, the sudden shock which that
tragic event occasioned the public mind, caused an
anti-papist riot. Thus, if a picnic policeman refused
in public, to lubricate bis thorax with a foot of beer, we
are sadly afraid that—as in the case we have quoted—
the shock which the people would sustain would be
provocative of very serious consequences. However,
there is no present fear of any such social disaster.
* • •
From fashionable sources we learn that Adelina
Patti is at Aix-les-Bains, nursing a had knee; and that
Nicolini is at Aix-les-Bains, also, nursing La Patti,
• » *
We dropped across a copy of the Monaeo
Mercury tho other day, and derived great amusement
f om a perusal of it. This paper, like all the other
rustic rags, has its post; and as he strives to he pathetic,
he is, i. n the whole, rather funnier than tho ordinary
run ef bards, so many of whom we occasionally im-
mortalize. Ermi’aling the example of one Gray,
nh>, when alive, wrote an unimportant little elegy in
Btoke Pogis churcbyarl, “ Uncle Bandy” (for such ia
the signature of the Monaro Mercury minstrel) Jerks
off a few lines on the “ Cemetery of the Church of
England, Gsgedzerick ”: —
“ Cold death comes just upon us.
And strikes down great and small.
On fiery wings he flies about
And takes neighbours, friends, and all.
The children and the mother dies
And the baby, too, lie still:
They are freed from all their sorrows.
In the graveyard on the hill."
This verse inclines us to the belief that there is a good
deal in " Uncle Sandy’s " head—a good deal of sawdust,
* • •
The Dubbo Dispatch says that Sir Jo Innes
is “abetter lawyer than people give him credit for.”
This is rather a left-handed compliment, but we have
no doubt that it is true. When Sir Henry Porkes reads
this, perhaps he will at once decide upon bestowing
upon Sir Je-oseph the judicial oatskin.
But there are rumours that he lends.
An ear to counsels' growling;
And that Fate’s fickle finger tends
To point towards J e D g.
And, scattering chaff to the winds, this, so far as news-
papers are concerned, is a consummation devoutly to
be wished. The upright gentleman we allude to was in
his early days a pressman, and always paid his debts.
When, therefore, he is ’seated on high, perhaps when
a paper has courage enough to expose a seething spot
of_ . Hold on, though. If we went any further, we
might strike pain in the heart of a pio-nio policeman.
And we don’t want to do that.
* # •
Here’s a bit of Laboucbere in London Truth :
—“ I am glad to have been the means of clearing np the
mistaken impression about Parham which generally
prevails. ... I am glad to hear that Lord Winmar-
leigh is recovering from his very severe attack of gout.”
We wonder whether the junior member for Northamp-
ton really writes this—or his butler ?
At Newtown, tho other Sunday, a vigilant
policeman seized a small girl as she came out of a
public-house, and. it being In unauthorized hours,
claimed to taste the contents of her jug. He took the
vessel from her, raised it to his lips, and indulged In a
long pull. Then, crash went the thing to smithereens
on the pavement. The landlord (being prepared) had
filled it with soap-suds and soda. The price of the jug
was only half-a-crown, and he paid that without a
marmur, But what unsettles him, is to hear the boys
crying “soap-suds,” when he is majestically keeping
order in the public thoroughfares. Another “ martyr
to duty I”
• « •
The two papers at Wilcannia are eternally at
logger-heads, hut they are really both so dull that very
little fan is derived from their bickerings. The Wil-
cannia Times calls the Western Grazier “Ananias”
(which, by the way, isn’t original), and the W. G. re-
torts by other dull (and borrowed) expressions of a
like nature. This must be rather slow work for the
Wilcanniaites; and our opinion is that if any enterpris-
ing journalist, of tho Ferguson calibre, were to go np
there with a fount of second-hand long primer, a cwt.
of damaged paper, and a boy-mangle, he would do so
well in six months that he would he able to afford to
have his pants re-seated, and to buy a pair of new
“ laoe-nps ” for “ little Bobby.’*
* • *
The following gentle stanzas are inscribed to
those individuals, who, by their persistence in “ preach-
ing ” in public places, contrive to render the various
pleasant resorts of this city impossible of access to the
respectable section of the community.
SSFergy, of the Parramatta Times, calls the local
Independent tho Cumberland Gallipot. There’s no
record yet as to what the Gallipot called the
Ferguson. But, come—
“ Pendragon,” in alluding to the editor of the
New York Spirit of the Times, commences his para-
graph with the graceful periods which follow“ Mr.
Curtis imports too much of his fish-dealing peculiarity
into his newspaper. He evidently comes from tho fish-
stall without washing his bands, and allows the aroma
of tho offal to get into his writings.” Considering that
Mr. Sampson is such a power in the State, it is to be
wondered at that he condescends to penning mere
abuse like this. If we wrote that kind of thing in The
Bulletin, our English critics would at once cry out
that we were obliged to throw mud since we possessed
no satire. We, however, never do indulge in abuse.
Even when goaded to agony by the eccentricities of the
Evening Art Journal, and the Penny Morning
Puzzle, we always write with a light hand, and throw
a paper pellet instead of heaving a brick-bat.
Abuse we leave to that dull crowd
Who’ve neither brains nor wit.
Let them employ invective loud—
We have no need of it I
Why use a clumsy bludgeon, when
To brand a fool a fool,
You’ve but to lightly laugh, and then
He’ll die of ridicule,
• « *
In the Southern Daily Argus of the 3rd
instant weperoeiyethatthe immortal “Fizgig” (whom
nobody, it appears, has had the strength of mind toslily
slaughter) has broken out again. This time the subject
of his trouble seems to be the vacant clock tower at Goul-
burn. Verse is “Fizgig’s” dart on this occasion, and the
quality of ft is very nearly on a par with that memorable
effusion which ho was once good enough to send to us,
together with an intimation that he would embellish
our columns weakly for the trifling remuneration of a
few millions. We had the self-denial not to monopolise
the literary efforts of this genius ; so it would appear
that he has returned (the giddy boy 1) to his old love,
the Goulbum paper. Listen to him bark
We almost wish, after reading this, that wo had secured
the services of this gifted being, and let the “kids”
wait for new boots until after Christmas. Come now,
" Fizgig," draw it mild, and we will discharge the hired
girl at once, and give you a show. Como up and see us,
quick. We are anxious to settle with you. But, when
you do come, wear a cork jacket. There is a well in
our back yard.
* * •
“A man has been committed for trial at the
Molong police court for assaulting his daughter with a
crow-bar."
At cruel fate, pray do not pout.
But do your little time in peace, man.
Apply directly you oome out,
And they'll make you a pie nic p’Uceman.
* * «
“ Matrimony.—If this should meet the eyo
of an intelligent, good-looking young woman,
who wishes to form a comfortable home for her-
self, she may do so by communicating with the
advertiser, who is a good tradesman, and of
temperate habits, previous character of applicant
trot wholly considered. Address, by letter. Con-
fident, Post Office, Oxford-street."— Evening
Ltr*.
Why advertise ? It does apnear
For virtue you are not a stickler.
To spend “ two bob " is soft, ’tis clear,
The moment one is not •• partickler.”
• • •
He walked into an hotel in a Northern town,
and told the landlady he wanted to see the local editor.
“ Which one ?" inquired the lady. “ Oh, any of them
will do.” replied the stranger. “Well, there's one
under the table in the back parlour, and the other two
have gone out to fight. This is Saturday: if you will
wait till Tuesday, you might see them."
• • •
“ A singular case was' taken into the Water
Police Court yesterday afternoon, and there heard by
Mr. Lester, J.P. The complainant was Fritz Jansen,
a draughtsman in the Surveyor-General’s office, and the
defendant Louis Wien, formerly proprietor of a well-
known cafd in this city. Mr. Jansen’s complaint was
to the effect that on Sunday, the 2nd instant, the de-
fendant came on the premises he occupied, situated at
Coogee, and there first (abused his own wife (Mrs.
Wien), and subsequently insulted him. . . . The
defendant deposed that he went to see his wife on the
day stated, and Mr. Jansen throw three buckets of
water over him, and then kicked him off the premises.
This was done without any provocation on his port, as
he never spoke to him. Dismissed."
The Melbourne correspondent of the Herald
evidently likes to let people know that he has received
a classical education. Ho says:—“ Three events, two
prospective and one actual, merit very marked notice
Jmprimus, Mr. David Blair has got out his ‘Cyclo-
paedia of Australia,’ and it is truly a remarkable work
—creditable alike to author, publisher, and com-
munity.” “ Imprimus ” f Wo wonder at this, since
the weather is comparatively cool. In the dog-days
we might reasonably expect “ dog latin.”
* * *
Tho splendid coruscation of literary talent that
played the Musgrove Opera Company on Monday last
acquitted themselves so brilliantly with the bat that it
seems rather a pity some of them don’t adopt cricket
as a profession. It is true that Messrs. Wilkinson.
Hogg, and Whittaker did not get into double figures—
but what of that ? They have that within them which
—we don t quite know what it is, at a moment’s
notice, but anyhow, something. Mr. Ella, though the
editor of that journal of high sporting distinction, the
Australian Sportsman (where is it. by the way?)
came, as might have .been expected, to the fore in
splendid style, and carried his bat out for four until
the next man in wanted it. The only Hareus came out
of his shell with a vengeance, and tho manner in which
ho defended his wicket with his leg pad, was the ad-
miration of the ground. The Musgrove Company are
going away next week; but after the brilliant exhibition
of the athletic prowess of our pressmen that they
have been treated to, it would be interesting to hear
from them which they most admire—the brilliant
literary efforts of the Juniuses they played with, or
their magnificent cricket.
• # •
A Tamworth correspondent writes “ A phil-
harmonic society has been established here upon a very
firm basis; all tho * talent ’ of the district have enrolled
themselves members. The affair is under the able
management of Mr. Cummins, which is sufficient to
ensure its success.’* We haven’t the faintest notion
who Mr. Cummins ” is, but we would take our cor-
respondent’s word for more than this—especially if to
is either the Sheriff’s bailiff or the local snip. That
reminds us that Tamworth is going ahead, and no mis-
take. It has now its Hanley Bennettj its philharmonic
society, its three newspapers, and its gaol. It will be
having an exhibition soon—or a lunatic asylum.
t t «
Miss Wallace, the gentle lady who won the
diamond cross at that chaste entertainment, the
“ Ladies’ ” Tournament (good-naturedly described last
week in this journal), has had her portrait in the Even-
ing Illustrated News of last Saturday. We do
not know, to the letter, what Miss W. thinks of the
picture, bat we have it on good authority that a
stalwart, m : ddle-aged woman has driven up in a van to
the News office several times this week, and earnestly
enquired for the editor. As it was remarked, however,
that she had concealed under her red shawl either a
baby or a bludgeon, the gifted Maecenas of the press
was denied to her. The lady, whoever she is, has ex-
pressed her intention of returning, and should she
carry out that purpose, we will endeavour to lay be-
fore our readers the particulars of the interview. If
we canno* do that, wo will strive at least to give an
illustration of all that’s left of Alf., after Miss Wallace
(if it should be that lady) has expressed to him—what,
ever is. at present, on her mind.
• • «
There is a budding genius on the Redfeen
Times, who is sent round by the proprietors of that
well-known comio journal to collect advertisements.
When he gets his pockets full ho trudges home to the
office, over the railway bridge, and, laying the ads. on
tho composing stone, ho sets to work with the mallet
and hammers them into poetry. It’s hard work, but
he doesn’t mind that. The quality of the poetry varies
according to the amount of hammering; hut, as fair
specimens of the kind of sentiment he flattens out
when the mallet is in good working order, we invite
attention to these two scintillations—
“ Smith had a seedy hat and Coat,
Mary a shady dress and gown ;
But they soon were as right as a tar afloat—
They’d been to dyer Rogers, in|town.
Noble and Wells are tailors of note.
They’ll cut to a ‘ t,’ noble and well;
Noble will—we’ll oat you a veskit or coat
So fit, that you’ll charm every belle.
But even the brightest genius, alas, is never free from
the attacks of mean jealousy. Phil. M’Carroll’s poet,
actuated bj the basest envy, assorts that his legitimate
business is being ruined by this rivalry, and he is now
on the war-trail, loaded with road-metal and small-pox
germs, for the purpose of interviewing him. The
southern hemisphere is not spacious enough for two
such poets.
• * •
Some giddy matron from Summerhill, who sim-
ply signs “A.P.R.W.,** has written an article in the
evening reprint of our morning contemporary, in which
she goes back on her children in a very extraordinary
w ay- The title of her contribution is “Whist at
Home,” and, as a specimen of Berlin wool and work-
box humour, it is a very valuable production. The
children have all got the whist fever, oven to the baby,
who “ at night would sit up in bis cot and rave, ‘ I pay
dimnds; whereas Hector’s cards? I’ll bang yon, Nor-
man. I pay wis.’ ** Then we hear that “ during the
games such endearing terms as cheat, fowl, lizard, and
even in extreme cases ‘ smelly beetle,’ would be hurled
backwards and forwards,” and a good deal more to tho
same purpose. Such contributions as these, doubtless,
can always obtain insertion in the Echo, and it is to
the brilliancy of these effusions that this journal owes
its present tremendous success. What we would like
to know, however, is how the Echo people manage to
dig opt these geniuses. We are looking out for humour,
ists like A.P.R.W. at the corner of every street, but
can never find one. We wonder what this lady would
give us a yard or two more of this stuff for ? Or we
wouldn’t mind taking a column or two of the baby’s re-
flections on the thirty-ninth clause. Wake np, then,
mother, and send your copy olong. But only write on
one side of tho paper, We shall then be
able to write on the other. - V.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Tho Pope has been suffering from a sever®
attack of fever.
The Queensland Government undertake to open
their Museum on Sundays.
Anti-clerical clubs are being formed in Home-
even in the Borgo, or Vatican quarter.
The Maryborough (Q.), Wesleyans propose to
build a new church, to cost £2OOO to £3OOO.
The late Rev. B. Chapman was the first minister
who ever preached to a congregation of diggers on an
Australian goldfield.
The Baptist Association at Adelaide, last week,
negatived a motion affirming that Bible instruction
should be given in public schools during regular school
hours.
Towards the Church of England Cathedral at
Melbourne, £lB,OOO have been contributed. Several
wealthy men have given thousands which they don’t
want themselves.
There is a clergyman, not 20 miles from Hyde,
who has preached his sermon on two different occasions
from the revised version of the New Testament. Many
of his congregation think it would be preferable were
he to preach a revised sermon from the old edition.
The presiding officer of the Irish Convention, at
Chicago (nicknamed the Fenian Dynamite Convention),
was, according to the N.Y. Herald, the Rev. George
Betts, an Episcopalian clergyman of St. Louis, son of
the Rev. Dr. Betts, vicar of Enniskillin, Ireland. The
N.Y. Sun, however, styles him Father George C. Beats,
which seems more likely to be correct.
An important article, signed “ A Prelate,” pub-
lished by Figaro, lays down a rule of conduct for the
Catholic clergy at the French elections. They are to
abstain from interference whenever the success of the
conservative candidate seems hopeless, hat may use
their influence to secure tho election of all Conserva-
tives who appear to have a fair ohance. In fact, they
are judiciously to combine the wisdom of the serpent
with the harmlessuess of the dove.
The Rev. E. C. Scioer, who preached last
Sunday evening at St. Mark’s, Darling Point, is tho
* superlatively quite ” young gentleman, who, during
the absence in Europe of the Rev. Canon Gregory, of
All Saints’, St. Hilda, Melbourne, has been delighting
large and fashionable audiences at the aesthetic fane last
named, with “Ritualisms” of the most pronounced
kind. From this circumstance it will be gathered that
Mr. Spicer felt quite at home at St. Mark’s.
The Italian Liberals do not mince matters about
the Papacy. The Riporma openly calls on Rome to
drive forth from within her walls the Pope, whom
it calls Hannibal, the foe of the nation, and all his
adherents, and it urges every Italian city to do likewise.
The Lega della Dbmocrazia, the mouthpiece of the
ultra-Radicals, expresses the real sentiments of the
recent disturbers and of their official leaders by saying
that “ it would have still more heartily applauded the
disturbance if the remains of the old fool had been
thrown over the bridge of Sant Angelo into the Tiber.”
The Rev. H. W. Thomas, of Chicago, was to be
tried in September, for heterodoxy as to the atonement
and the inspiration of the Scriptures. It is claimed by
his friends that there are many in the Methodist
Church who are as quite as heterodox as Dr. Thomas is
accused of being. And it is urged that if he be tried
there ought to be a general and comprehensive trial of all
who have in any degree wandered from the standards
of the Methodist Episcopal Church. Such a trial would
produce a theological earthquake, and would introduce
more dissensions than fifty Ecumenical Councils could
heal.
The American Committee of Revision have
taken umbrage as the non-adoption of many of their
readings and revisions of different passages in the New
Testament, and an additional new version is to be pub-
lished under their authority in America. That will
make four different Testaments in English, viz., the old
version of James I, the Douay version, the English re-
vised new version, and the American new version. It
is now suggested that the English Church prayer-book
be revised also, and that the sentence, “ God spake
these words and said”:—be rendered, “ The English re-
visers are of opinion that God spake these words and
said —hut others think he said something else.”
THAT BABY.
Early on Wednesday morning, a gentleman
residing in Redferu, found an infant on the door-step of
his house.”— Daily paper.
One mom, as ho was going out.
As quietly as may be.
He there upon the door-stop found
A pretty little baby.
He took it in the house, and then
Endeavoured to explain ;
But she “ knew all about it,” so
He took it out again.
He boro it to his office, with
Despair, in quite a lather;
And there the clerks veiled loudly out,
“ The image of its father I ”
He hunted up a nurse that lived
Somewhere across tho Park;
She winked, and said, “You trust to me.
And I will keep it dark.”
He tore up to the Barracks, then,
A new chum to employ;
She heard his story, then she said,
“ You are a giddy boy! **
He called round at a baby farm—
The Farmer said, “ Now. mind •
Our charge is always double, sir.
In cases of this kind.”
In sheer despair, at last, he was
Seized with a happy thought:
He had the babe arrested—it
Had no means of support.
PARK PITCHERS.
Of what avail a paradise
If satyrs are allowed in,
And rusty ravens, hoarse with lies
And blasphemy, do crowd in ?
Dull ranting fools, whose very look
Suggestive is of Hades,
Whose ribaldry anent the " Book,”
Their sole and sorry trade is !
Whence come these dusty, blinking owls.
Whose doctrines are perfidious.
Whoso horrid, hoarse, and senseless yowls,
The noon-day calm makes hideous ?
From what foul garrets, holes, or oaves.
From out of which are crawling
These rusty, seedy, blatant knaves.
With their discordant bawling ?
How can the lovely flowers bloom
When those dull Goths are near, sirs ?
Their breath wou’d speak the rose-bud’s doom:
They taint the atmosphere, sirs I
Out on these rogues whose sorry “ say,”
To stir up strife’s e’er striving;
Lot them be banished far away.
To sara an honest living !
Why will yon, will you over snort,
Like Billingsgate flahfags ?
Do you forget that life is short.
You silly little rags ?
The world is large, though you are small,
So who d’yon think, now, cares at all
For your small flea-bite stings ?
Your roar’s a very dove-like bawl.
You puny little things !
Why don’t you live in friendship, and
Trust but in things eternal ?
Be like the Standard, hand in hand
With Micky’s Freeman’s Journal !
In fond embrace each other press;
Love like the Freeman and Express.
Your anger keep within;
Love like the Bum does love —ah, yes 1—
Does love The Bulletin.
" The clock! (ho clock I the clock 1
Oh, tell them about tho clock,
And when they come up.
With Qoulburn to sup.
Oh, tell them about the clock.
The structure itself is good.
But they voted a clock of wood.
And nobody thought they should.
And the post-office tower on high
Looks as if it wanted an eye.
For a clock then we’d better all try.”
The scene we’ll lay in Coogeo Bay,
There is a dove-cote there,
And hidden is that haunt of bliss
By spreading foliage fair.
And people who in Coogee dwel l ,
All know that residence fall well;
And when they pass it, near or far.
They slyly wink and laugh, ha! ha!
The day had run ; the evening sun
Had dyed with red the rolling wave.
When a small man of aspect wan,
A tap upon the house-door gave;
And humbly said, “I’m grieved to trouble yon.
But could I just see Mrs. W.’’
Then clear as any silver bell
A female voice lisped—" Go to—well
The surging surf upon the snore.
Prevented him from hearing more.
He stayed outside, and once more tried,
To see the wife whom he adored;
When out jumped Fritz, and gave him fits,
Bang I bang!—and th.s poor hub was floored.
In vain, in vain the Benedict
Objected to be cuffed and kicked;
But when, alas ! he cried for quarter.
He got a half—a pail of water.
And then the moon came out full soon.
The stars shone bright on high;
The winds of night, with whispers light.
Amidst the waves did sigh.
And as he limped along the track.
With water running down his back.
He moaned, when feeling a sharp tiegle,
“ I wish in thunder I was single.”


a
I
1
/NmmwDjrn
SS?
woa
no
Pi
.SSSS& fta® 5588«!3a Y«
ee&ist/m
exemmsr
.;—-■ :
St
St. if*
I
m
S&*
M
jq'EW DAYIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED tho ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1830.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PKIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1831.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Gonlbum, Mndgee
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, ISSO.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourno International, ail assertions
to the contrary n otwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
674 George-atreet.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN,
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all tho latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttk Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can bo soon working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Tobacconists
J.EVS . TOBACCONIST .149.
■S-.-r
:
SB®
r-.v
JAMES EVE,
No. 140 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Eoyal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
119 KING STREET,
EURE
KA
AUTION
T 0
T H E
PUBLIC,
THE UNPRECEDENTED DEMAND
for the
EUREKA AND I.X.L. TOBACCOS
la inducing other Manufacturers to imitate them,
None arc genuine but t hose bearing the
HEART-SHAPED METAL TAG,
stamped with the words
EUREKA, or tho letters I.X.L,
Smokers, ask for the
[EUREKA or I.X.L,
THEY WILL NOT BITE THE.TONGUE,
Manufactured by
T. S A Y W E L L,
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LX
Ry*
TIN TAG!
TJ_N TAG!
Caution to Storekeepers.
ANYONE selling Tobacco with any Round Tin Ti
other than those bearing our brands
“CONQUERER” or “YANKEE DOODLE”
is infringing our rights, and will be proceeded
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice, as a Sydney Man
facturer has been sending out one of his inferior br?n<
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
AVE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
DIXSON AND SONS,
155 YOEK STBEET.
TOBACCO SMOKERS,
Note tlio Above.
fofjv
I
ICE ICE ICE
milE CITY ICE COMPANY, having made such
- 4 - ADDITION to their WORKS as to enable them to
Manufacture upwards of TEN TONS of ICE per diem,
are prepared to Supply the LUXURY during the AP-
BROACHING SUMMER, at a lower rate than eyer.
For prices, &c..
Apply to
3 AVYNTARD STREET,
OB TO VARIOUS AGENTS.
JJAVID M ‘ C A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment,
To his Eoyal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, Hia
Excellency the Eight Hon. tho Earl of Bolmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.0.,
and. Hia Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
K.C.M.O.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875,
4.*
_jm
c-nns
MANUFACTORY;
ON- ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can bo made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is mu«h cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace;
in some cases almost ml. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Cool Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
Wo undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to tho Public,
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TEESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling oil in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certifled to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USIKG
H S. BAStSOW Sc Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Tho “‘CHRISTIANA”
Mediaeval Pattern (reg.J
Various other Patterks,
HEAVY GAS BILLS.
WILLIAM SUGGS'
fIELSESATES PATSHT ©AS BURNERS
GIVE A
BRILLIANT WHITE SILENT LIGHT.
PLAT-FLAME. SELF-REGULATING BUENEE3, for preventing waste of
Gas and Flaring.
With 5 cubic feat of Gas, the ordinary Fish-tail and Bats-wing Earners give a
light only equal to from 6 to 8 spermaceti candies, while the PATENT CHRIS-
TIANA FLAT FLAME BURNER, with self-anting governor for maintaining
uniformity of pressure, consuming 5 cubio feet of Gas per hour, GIVES A
LIGHT EQUAL TO 16 SPERMACETI CANDLES, or, at least, 100 per cent,
more light for the same quantity of Gas consumed.
All Burners and Olohes hear the Trade Marks.
Gold Medal, Paris, 1878; the only Medal for Gas Burners, at York, 1879 ; Bronze
Medal, London. 1862, <S»c., &o.
SOLE AGENTS COWARD and TEMPLE
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Q H E E I D A N & FULLFOSD,
U STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS,
91 PITT-STREET,
SYDNEY,
Henry A. Sheridan, formerly Manager of the Com-
mercial Bank, Maitland.
James Fdllfoed, of West Maitland.
JMPOETANI NOTICE.
JUST RECEIVED, the latest PARISIAN NOVEL.
TIES in
LADIES' EVENING SHOES.
French and German Button Kid Walking BOOTS and
SHOES.
CHOICE PERFUMERY
and
FRENCH KID GLOVES.
Specialities in Gentlemen’s FOREIGN HOSIERY
SHIRTS, and FANCY HANDKERCHIEFS.
Novelties received by every Mail.
J. M- BLLEECAMP,
(Successor to PARROT BROS.)
12 HUNTER STREET,
JpiHOS. J. SOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BEASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTIXTGS, GLOBES, BANITAEY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 B ATHURST-STREET, SYDNEY.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A Femalo Lodging-house Co. is iu rapid forma-
tion at Melbourne,
In N.Z. now, a wife who has been deserted for
seven years can, on that ground alone, obtain a divorce.
“ Do as ye would have men to do unto yon,
is & glorious recipe. Is this the reason women kiss each
other when they meet ?
The Brincesa of Wales has adopted a now form
Of riding habit, with a short skirt, gored to the knees,
and not much longer than au ordinary drawing room
Costume.
A French tailor, armed with a large carving
knife, chased a girl at Hamilton (Vie.), vowing to
murder her for declining to marry him. The girl toot
rofugo in her bedroom, and help arriving, the tailor
was am sted.
Prince Mcttcrnich, lately Austrian ambassador
in Paris, cnco made a clover little speech to the lady
who was tho best-dressed grand dame in the Second
Empire. “I notice.” said his Excellency, ‘ that your
bonnets grow smaller and smaller, and the bills larger
onU larger. One of these days tlio maker will bring
nothing but the bill."
It is becoming fashionable with certain subur-
ban clergymen, to rail from their puplts at the ladies
graceful “pullback,” but we would remind these gentry
that if our Mother Eve had worn a “ snake-skin skirt
she would never have been able to shin up that tree, ana
hypothecate that apple. This is ouc for the pulpit, and
two for the " pullbacks.”
Lady Chelsea Ware (with vase): “Yes; it is
quite to} distinctly tender. Yesterday it knocked
against a loathly modern plate—and chipped. Chorus
of .Esthetes : " Quite too preciously terrible ! Lady
C W • " I treated it with diamond cement, and hcart-
throbbingly watched by its side the livelong night.
To day—to-day—it is as well as can be expected.
A rich old man, at Saratoga, has a pretty young
Wife. He is 60, she 17, and tho talk of the town. The
most affecting thing she has yet done was at a b:g hotel
hop. She wore a dress quite low in tho b..ck, and was
ravishinglv pretty. While she danced, he sat out on
the verandah with some friends. Suddenly she ran out
to him, and, bending down, said Please scratch my
hurt" The old gentleman complied. A little to the
Other aide," she murmured; " there—that’s the spot
Thank you ” And she ran back to her partner, quite
unconscious of tho interest she had excited among the
peotators.
According to Vanity Fair, there has been a
little unpleasantness between the Queen and her eldest
son The Duke of Saxe-Coburg died when Goodwood
races were in full swing, and tho Pnnco of Vales was
"right in it” at tho Duko of Richmond s. Queen tele-
graphed. "Come homo.” Prince, ” No; why. I can co-
here.” Queen, “ Don't lot mo catch you going to tho
races ” Prince. "I will.” Queen, “ Well, you shan’t
dance ” And so she wired peremptorily to the Duke,
" Albert Edward did not dance. Me did not like it,, but
Albert is still a little afraid of bis Ma, and does not care
about going too far.”
Many ladies of rank, headed by tho Princess
Mary of Cambridge and the Princess Christian, have
formed themselves into an association to assist the
English woollen industry, which is in an unsatisfactory
condition. An English paper says that some years
since ladies discarded the bright and lustrous fabrics
produced by English looms, and substituted a dull
material, made principally of foreign wool manufactured
ia Franco. There has consequently been a serious fa 11-
ing off of tho demand for materials made from lustrous
and English-grown wool, which has become seriously
depreciated in value.” Wo suspect, however, that the
French have put better taste into their manufactures,
and that this is tho true explanation of the ladies pro-
ferenco for ••dull" French goods over ‘bright ana
lustrous ** English fabrics.
Married people would bo happier : If homo trials
were never told to the neighbours. Jftheykissedand
made up every quartel. If they didn t lot little
things estrange them, the big troubles would not
matter ; they’d draw them together anjhow. If each
remembered tho other was a human being, not au angel.
If both remembered they married for worse as well as
for hotter. If men were as thoughtful for their wives
ns they were for their little sweethearts. If women
took half the trouble to fascinate their husbands that
they took to fascinate their lovers. If each one always
resolved to let tho other got tho best of tho argument;
when you gain an argument you don t pm much, you
know/ If both refused to say “the last word. If ho
would buy her a new hat or ulster every tune he buys
himself one. And there are other ways of securing
domestic happiness, but they are just ns liable to fail
as any of the above, unless yon can stop tho baby
getting the stomach-ache.
THE KOOKABURRA.
Bald men are invariably cool-headed.
The wrestler’s motto : “ Divided wo stand,
united wo fall.”
Cats swallow mice head foremost in order that
they may use their tails as toothpicks.
Queensland has the champion lazy man. When
he gets fever and ague he refuses to shake.
The man who holds to a belief in hell has no
foundation for it. It's a ” bottomless pit.
Weeds are a sign of mourning, whether on a
woman’s bonnet, or in a man’s garden—absence of hus-
bandry in both cases.
When Buliver Ly tton wrote : “ The truthful and
the beautiful are one," what a pity he did not quote, in
support of his statement, Ananias and Sapphira!
“ And yet he will always sing it!”—Mr. Bull-
fxo%
«• What shall he have who killed the deer ?
The 'ed, and the 'oef, and the 'orns to wear."
Because an impecunious bridegroom neglected
paving for his wedding certificate, a Philadelphia
minister advertised the fact. A better plan would have
been to have gotten out an injunction forbidding the
couple having a baby, or else taking a mortgage on the
first youngster.
Scene: A Government office. Policeman servos
a debt summons on a Government olerk. Clerk:
« Hullo, what’s this ?” Policeman : “ Well, thin, it’s
very hard when an officer of the Crown has to servo a
brother officer wid a summons, an' sure it’s meself as
doesn't like it at all, at all."
It is said than when a Texan actor fails to
please his audience, they merely shoot him dead, after
which his body is dragged off the stage j the pitites
yell out, "down in front 1" and then the play goes on
as smooth and swift as a Sussex-street rat slipping up a
pump. Unfortunately for our undertakers, however,
this sort of criticism isn’t popular over here.
Here is the latest original lie about Sarah Bern-
hardt. A gentleman had been invited by the angular
actress to dine with her; and, pending the arrival of
the other guests, he was entertained by the fair Sally
in the drawing-room. While they wore there, a tall
youth entered, and was introduced by Sarah as her son,
who had attained his fifteenth year on that day. When
he had gone out, the visitor said, nervously, " How is—
or—Mr. Bernhardt?" "I have no idea," replied the
actress, drily. “Ishe at homo ? " enquired the guest,
getting more and more bewildered. " No, he went out
to buy some tobacco.” " And how long has he been
gone P " asked the gentleman. " Fifteen years," replied
Sarah. And the subject was pursued no further.
The latest fashionable novelty is the Homwrie
in North Africa. Its projector, Bombcnnell, is a re-
nowned lion hunter, and was colonel of Free Shooters
in the Franco-German war. Onarlateau in the heart
of the forest, between Algiers and Constantine, ho is
building a casino, including first-class hotels, gardens,
terraces, baths, &c. Old worn-out animals will be kept
o i hand, to encourage the lions, panthers, and other
wild heists to come around the place, and the hunters
will shoot them at first from the shelter of strong
shooting boxes, afterwards from the open. Largo
numbers of wealthy sportsmen and noblemen have
j fined already, and many ladies are expected to bo on
the list. The lionnerie opens on the 35th of next
month and Bombonnell's terms arc- £io a month, every-
thing included, except coffins.


Business Announc
» R. LA]
Wholesale and Re
PRODUCE MER(
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE
43 Georgo-street West (late Par
And
Darlinghnrst Road, near Wi
Pure Cape Barley, Feed ant
P. E. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wine and
778 and 780 GEORGE STRI
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wi
N.B.—Orders by post punctually i
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayi
JjIASTEEN SPECIALITY 1
CABLES AND AN
strongly recommend their i
2s, TEA,
which will bo found equal to any
much higher pric
T 24 GEORGE SC
HAYMARKET,
IT A. A B ]
BOOKSELLER AND I
106 KING STREET,
(five doors from RITT
Every description of Plain and Fa
lowest possible pric
•8* A TRIAL SOLI
AGENT for Melbourne AGE
B
OBEET BUTCE
(Late William Loi
WINE AND SPIRIT ME]
534 GEORGE STRI
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL.
Country Orders Receive Pro:
D
AY OR NIGHT ]
The elegant Studio
THE ELECTRIC PORTEA
205 OXFORD STRI
(Opposite to the Court House,
IS NOW OPEN, from 10 in the M
Evening, for
TAKING PORTRAITS BY ART
Architectural, Mechanical, aud Lan
in the highest stylo of arl
The Autotype process also practii
ful varieties.
B
EREIMA DISTRI
BE RUN ON THE NEW
MOSS VALE RAILWAY
on THURSDAY and FRIDH
21st October, 188;
Weights for Browlcy and Ben
appear in the Evening News and I
Business Announc
gHORTER,
LLESAX.J
FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEREAGH STREE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary ]
1" EGAL.—Mr, T. M. S
SOLICITOR, has coi
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET. opposite I
News Office.
G.
AND S. PE
SAW .MILLS AND TIME
16 Ehskike Stf.e]
Every description of Foreign an
Doors, Saahea, Shingles, Palings, 1
Morldings. Cases, Turnery, &0.. trt !
COOP
WINE AND SPIRIT ME
CENTRAL STOEI
371 PITT STR:
Between Liverpool and Bat
Country iters will receive our
EON AND BRASS ]
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsi
Sheets, Blankets, Count
Bolsters and Pillow ‘
Mosquito Curtain
I
J. LAWLER
MANUFACTURER AND I
COS George-streot
CENTRAL FURNISHING ,
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, and
Como and inspect our largo S'
FURNITURE at lowest prices in tl
‘E FURISH HOUSES on
from £lO to £lOOO, at the
NISHING ARCADE, Nos. 29, 3.
.street.
CENTRAL FURNISHING .
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, an
H. LEVY & CO. desire to call tli
public to their larce and magnifle
Household FURNITURE, at pne
petition. Every article marked in p
carefully packed, and sent to all par
A LARGE ASSORTMENT
the best makers—Errard, R
time payment. CENTRAL F URN!
Nos. 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
OTICE OF El
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MAN UFAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCRI
and EARTHENWA
Beg to announce that they havo
REMOVE]
to
269 GEORGE STRI
Chemists and Dra
CAUTION. —In our sty!*) '6?
sudden changes of temp's!;
and sunshine often intermingled
it is no wonder that our chile
relatives arc so frequently take
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Bo
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a ]
and perhaps death, by the us<
doses For curing Consumpti
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Ore
of the Throat or Lungs, its succ
derful, as your druggist will
Syrup is now sold in every t(
this continent. Sample bottle
regular size, 3s. "Wholesale A
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into I
two years ago, where thousands i
—and one year in Sydney ; and som
of Rheumatism have been cured i
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long star
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Ac
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured b]
HEAD OFFICE
89 WATESLOO-EOAD, ]
and
107 CASTLEEHAGH STEEE
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro;
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE
STREET, SYDNH
MANZANITA PEL
TEY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented t>
Thousands of people in Sydney he
have been cured of Biliousness, In
ness. Sick Headaches, and rdl com]
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO E
and 107 OASTLEEEAGU STEI
S. W. GAMBLE, Proj
ELLIOTT BROS., WHOLES
PITT STREET, SYI
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P
FOR
INDIGSSTI
AND
STOMACH COMPLA
*,* They are also much recomme
live for Females, being safe, gent!
their operation, leaving no disposi
and being free from any tendency
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOP
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEN’
OXFORD STREET E
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
THE GREAT LIVER E
And successful substitute for Ca
Podophyllum, and all Nox
Famous as a Restorative to Healt
Famous as an Invigorator of the ‘
Famous for the Cure of all Disord
Stomaah.
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, ii
take them.
Be careful not to get Ii
IN BOXES, ONE SI
Invented and Prepared
J. S. A B R A
At the Laborator
434 GEORGE STREET,
vrvMtrw ■pT?r»VTT»F'MT I
Public Compan
THE MERCANTILE BAN!
X ESTABLISHED II
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-up Capital.,
Reserve Fund.,..
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.Lj
AUDITORS
Jaa. Seroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
P. A. A, Wilsor
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Qcorge-streot Brickfield Hi]
LONDON BANKS!
The National Provincial Bank
Loudon Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapn
Agent—G. 11. Alexandc
This Bank transacts all usual Bai
Agency Business on the most favour
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mac
Other urodacc shipped to England fc
gCOTTISII
I M P E E lAI
COMPANY,
CAPITAL
FIRE RISKS AT LOWES
NIXON & CO
Chief Agents for N.S
7 BRIDGE STREET CHi
c
Sub-Agents wanted in Town s
ORNWALL FIRE AND M
ANCE COMPAN
CAPITAL, £100,(X
RESERVE FUND
Piro and Marino Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AN
Agents,
348 QEORGE-STEE
SIDNEY.
XNCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCIE:
This Society provides a certain fix:
members when thrown out of emplc
Medical'attendance durirg sicknesi
age, and when incapacitated from fol
ment through disease or accident; ar
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence
suitable re-engagomc
For further particulars, apply to
G. HORTON MORRI
Secretar
Wentv
£1
Applications for Agonciei


AIT INTERESTING {
The quantity of Foreign Toba<
on in N.S.W. for the Half Year en
392,4271 b.
Of this quantity DIXSON & SOI
paid on 18<
All the remaining manufacturers,
cigar makers, and others 21i
DIXSON & SONS’ BRA
“Yankee Doodle,’’ “Conqueror,”
Look out
JOI
gYDNET LIVE STOC
Having secured the services of It
LAND, well-known in Victoria and
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to assn]
all interested in the SAXE of FAT 01
and STATION PEOPEETIES, tha
shall bo directed to this branch of th
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite s 1
tical knowledge, attention, and st
which have made my Wool and Prod
a success, will entitle me to the con
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and
a week ; allowances made on all Stc
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales
a week, or when required on days of s
Further information if applied for.
J<
MASON BROTI
14 & 16 Sp
Syd
Have always in £
to the TEAD:
SALE BUYEI
lEONMONQEE'
GENERA
GLASS.
a:
EAE T H E
WINES, BEERS
and g
BULK MEI
Agen
JOHN WALK
Old Highla
J. SOEIN
Cog
J. T. G
Schnapps i
anem*
AW*R
A. MELVII
Edinburg]
WALTHAM ENGLISH,
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all 1
Plain figures—Low pric
w.
H. PAL
T>Ti\TATIA-DnnTl TTT L T3TVTT/
IF yon are asked to buy a MA
by “ The Singer C 0.,” but rcci
being on the “ Singer System " or
take Punch’s advice to those about
SINGER'S SEWING ]
ARE MADE ONLY
The Singer Manufacture
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Eur
39 Foster lane,
Depot for New South
No, 1 DARLING STORES. HAI
SYDNEY.
SINGER’S SEWING M
HAVE
All the Latest Improv
SINGER’S SEWING 1
FOR
Largest Variety of A
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Strength and Beauty oi
SINGER’S SEWING N
FOR
Embroidery, Braiding, an
SINGER’S SEWING W
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and 1
SINGER’S SEWING M
FOR
Kilting, Cording, and 1
Singer's Sowing Machines against
all the World’s She
FIRST PLACE 160 1
CAUTION I CAUTION 11
Bee that oar name and trade-mark
without which none are
Ten per cent, discount
2s. 6d. WEEKLY, 2:
From all Agents, am
THE COMPANY’S
No. 1 DARLING ST(
HARBOUR STREET, I
gINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C<
are the
RECOGNISED A
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANU
TIME PAYMENT
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week-
And NO interest chi
10 per cent, off for ci
BEWARE OF IMITJ
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER & (
THE ONLY “ SINQI
TURNER & <
Opposite <
S
I
N
G
E
R
JOHNSTOh
SEWING MACHXN
HAYMAEKEI
V
uTc.o a os
orxs
■w>
SipS
»W*U
>*■.;
eWi^WISIWWi
0L Jwwtw«™i
JA*
immsAiKsi
w*>n»
WKUMU »»wm«u
«55»WRJ£*g3|«
m
1S&
mm.
7JZSTL
ALARMING SALE OF BOOT
NOW ONI NOW ON
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BO
510 GEORGE STREB
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT C
with those you have been payii
MAKE NO MIS 7
This is the only Genuine Sale, a I
POB ONE MONTH G
SOWING BROTHERS’ We 6d double
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
SILK NAGASAKI 1
Frames, are the best t
Quality, ditto, ditto,
opened this week. T
CATE shipment of the
SOWING BROTHERS’ ready made
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
in CUT, MATERIAI
TWEED SUITS, exti
tion of gentlemen spe
shrunk and well cut.
from 12s 6d to 80s.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SO:
GOWING BEOTI
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central
AND
fnrvnr* n rirrmnnm 1 If UU—Af


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Judge Hargrave has resigned.
Herr Bandmann is of the Hebrew faith.
Alderman Ham, of the well-known auctioneer-
ing firm of C. and J. Ham, has been elected Mayor of
Melbourne.
Mr. Laycook, M.P. for North Lincoln, died the
other day, a week after inheriting from his father a
fortune of £40,000 a year.
Mr. Henry Rotton, formerly member for Bathurst,
died on Tuesday morning, at the residence of his son-in-
law, Mr. Keightley, P.M. of Moruya.
The Bill to enable the Y.R.C. to grant an
annuity to the widow and children of the late Mr. R. C.
Bagot has been agreed to by the Victorian Assembly.
Judge Molesworth, of Victoria, after recovering
froin his recent painful illness, presented, as a " thank
offering,” a gift of £lOO to the Austin Hospital for In-
curables.
Mr. Edmund O’Donovan, the plucky special
correspondent of the Daily News, who has for some
time been in captivity among the Central Asian tribes,
has at length been released.
Mr. Bradlaugh is very ill with erysipelas, re-
sultant from the rough handling he received from the
police on the occasion of his recent attempt to forcibly
enter the House of Commons.
Bismarck’s son, who “ cleared” to Switzerland
with Princess Carolatte, has married her. Old B. out
up rough at first, but has forgiven them. Ho probably
thinks they will suffer enough.
Tom Lloyd, leader of the Queensland Govern-
ment prospecting party at Cape River, has been Mi ed
by a green-hide bucket full of mullock dropping on him
while working at the bottom of an 83 feet shaft.
Judge Docker and David Buchanan had a pas-
sage at arms at Coonamble on Thursday last. David
offended his Honor, and would not apologise. The
Court was adjourned for an hour, and, at its re-assem-
bling, Davie ate the leek with much gusto.
Professor Denton is again
lecturing at Melbourne.
Mrs. Bladen Neill, of silk fame,
is, we are sorry to hear, very ill at
tiorowa.
General Garfield and Mr.
Vaughan, the member for Grenfell,
were schoolfellows.
Who ia “Mr. Crook, late of
Dewsbury, England, but now of
Sydney, N.S.W. P "
Mr. Warden Hodgkinson, of
the Palmer River.'Cwho". has many
friends throughout the colonies, is re-
covering from a recent indisposition.
Mr. Joseph Clarke has taken
the place of his brother, the Hon. W.
J. Clarke, who has gone to Europe
for a holiday, at the Board of the
Colonial Bank.
The wills of three of the victims
of the Jolimont railway disaster—
Messrs. F. F. Bailliere, G. M. Elmslie
Stephen, and the Rev. W. H. Garrett
—have been proved under £2OOO, £6OO,
and £l6Bl respectively.
Henderson, !who is serving a
sentence in Pentridge for the Ferret
fraud, expresses himself as confident
that before long news will arrive from
England whieh will establish his in-
nocence, and secure his liberation.
Two brothers of Dean Stanley
are buried in these southern lands—
the elder, once commander of the
Rattlesnake (after whom the Owen
Stanley Mountains, New Guinea, are
named) at North Shore; the younger
in that very peaceful resting-plaGe at
Hobart.
Intelligence has been received
of the death, in England, of Mrs. S.
G. Harrison, better known here as the
widow of Dr. Sawyer, the first bishop
of Armidale and Grafton, who, it will
bi remembered, was drowned in the
Clarence while returning from church
on a Sunday evening.
A study for a dramatist would
be the life of Blanche Wittoski, just
dead in Melbourne gaol. She be-
longed to a good family in England,
made the “ grand tour,” came to Aus-
tralia as teacher in a Governor’s
family, and was a splendid linguist
and pianists. It’s the old story—
drink, vagrancy, death. She was
well-known in Sydney.
His name was Jaoky Dow ; he
managed a big Riverina sheep station,
and he disliked loafers. One evening
a sundowner called at the homestead.
“ Got any work doin’, Mr. Dow P”
“ What sort of work do yon want, my
manP” “Oh, any sort of tiddley-
winking.” "Ah I You see that road
yonder, my man ?” " To-, Mr. Dow,”
"Well, just tiddley-wink along that
till yom reach the next station, my
man.”
Mr. Buzacott, of the Brisbane
Courier, has gone in for religious, or
rather moralist tactics, in the Upper
House. His amendments to suppress
larrikinism are very rich. If a couple
of mole fowls start fighting in a man’s
back yard, the owner of these esti-
mable fowls must submit to imprison-
ment and a horse whipping. Fight-
ing with boxing gloves is also to be
illegal. This is a pleasant idea for a
man who trie s to make his columns
readable to all classes of society.
When Ouida’s death was announced by cable-
gram, Marcus Clarke wrote her obituary. Marcus is
dead, Onida lives, breathes, feeds her dogs, slings ink,
and rides about Florence in the gayest of moods. Such
is life I
Thomas Roland Clibborn, a Victorian police
constable, but well-born, and an M.A. of Cambridge
University, who only last mail heard that a legacy of
£31,000 had fallen to him,'died on Friday last, poisoned
with strychnine.
Mr. W. J. Hammersley, sporting editor of the
Australasian, enters the lists against the astronomers
to contest with them the honour of having discovered
the comet of May last. He says he saw it from his
balcony after dinner.
During the recent evictions in Mitohelstown,
county Cork, Miss Anna Parnell accompanied the
Sheriff and troops to each house, in order, as she stated,
" that no undue severity should be used towards the
tenant.’’ The Sheriff at first refused her admission to
the houses, but finally relaxed his order.
A few days ago, an old colonist, Mrs. Michael
Sheppard, died at Madgee, at the age of 78. She had
been 45 years in the colony, and was a native of Lim-
erick. She left a number of grand-children, and one
great-graud-daughter. Her sons are Messrs. C., M. J.,
and W. Sheppard, of Mudgee, and Mr. S. Sheppard, of
Sydney.
Lady Officer died on the 18th ultimo, at New
Norfolk, at the age of 78. She was the widow of Sir
Robert Officer, and came out with him and her father,
Mr. Myles Patterson, in the Castle Forbes, in 1822, to
Tasmania. She had endeared herself to all who knew
her by her amiable disposition and cheerful aid in every
good work.
Princess Dolgorouki, the widow of the late
Czar, is now at Carlsbad, at the Hdtel Stadt, Baden;
she is accompanied by her son. Prince Peter. Particu-
larly affable and winning in manner, the Princess does
not disdain to visit her hostess in the kitchen. On the
stranger's list she gave orders to insert her name as
" Princess Dolgorouki, from Petersburg.”
We hear that at an inquiry recently held in the
Survey Office, certain high officials recommended that
several draftsmen who had done private work, which
had not been specially prohibited, should be reduced in
salary by £5O a year; whilst other draftsmen, who have
been for years doing private work which is prohibited,
under the very noses of the said officials, have, for
reasons which it would be rash to state, received
increases.
There are three men in the Queanbeyan district
whose united ages make a total of 255 years. The in-
dividuals are:—William Boston, of Irishtown; James
Smith, of Qarryowen; and Jack the Welshman, of
Conberra. These venerable men were all bom in the
same year, and are respectively 85 years of ago. Smith
and Rusten are bed-ridden, but old Jack is as hale as
ever, and boasts that he has never had a day’s sickness
in his life.
The Rev. A. J. D. D’Orsey, brother of the late
Dr. D'Orsey, of Ipswich (Q.), and uncle of Mrs. J. P.
Bell, and Mrs. S. B. Terry, of Rockhampton, has gained
the medal of the Royal Academy of Madrid for his
poem on Calderon, the Spanish Shakspeare. Mr.
D’Orsey made translations of Greek and Roman poets
many years ago, and in 1860 gained Prince Albert’s
medal at Cambridge, appearing as the successor of
Bulwer, Tennyson, and Macaulay.
Litigation has not yet been concluded in re the
celebrated Coady-Buckley case. Buckley, it will be
remembered, was a Gippsland squatter, and died in-
testate, leaving a large fortune. However, seven or
eight next of kin have turned up, proved their cases,
and prevented the property—value £50,000-=going to
the Crown. Now there is' a little legal trouble between
the administrators —two creditors of deceased —in re
the costs of commissions to examine witnesses in
Ireland and America.
The Victorian Attorney-General has beeh served
with the petition in the divorce suit of M’Evoy v.
M’Evoy. The petitioner, who was formerly a squatter,
states that he was married, in 1873, in the Wesleyan
Church at Hay, N.S.W., to the respondent, who was a
barmaid in that town, but that he was under the in-
fluence of drink at the time, and did not remember the
occurrence. He was then only 19 years of age, and the
respondent 31. The ground of the petition is adultery,
and there is a eo-respondentfto the suit.
A sensational incident occurred on the railway
between Torinaga and Toowong recently. A gentleman
took the line as a short out, and when in the middle of
a long and high viaduct over a valley he heard the roar
of a train, and a second afterwards saw it come on to
the bridge. No time to go forward or back, no space to
go either side, no wings to fly, no chance to think; but,
quick as lightning, he swung over the edge, and clung
palpitating and breathless among the girders. As the
red light disappeared in the distance he climbed out,
and drew the longest breath he ever took in his life.
He’ll be awfully careful about walking on the railway
lines in future, in case they might prove a “ short cut”
to another world.
R. H. or “ Orion ” Horne, forms the subject of
an article in the Victorian Review for October. He
was police magistrate at the Rushbrook goldfields many
years ago, and was a valued contributor to the Mel-
bourne Herald. When he went to London he
was warmly received by literary men, and received a
pension in recognition of his merits as an author and
poet. The writer of the article in the Review says Mr.
Home is now a fresh-looking little man of great physi-
cal strength, never idle, very abstemious, and “ a man
who leans upon life with the sunny affection that
idealizes everything—is half a spiritualist, but stops
there, because, to quote his own words, * you can prove
nothing definitely.’ ’’
“ It is strange,” remarks Vanity Fair, “ to see
how little notice has been taken of George Sorrow's
death. He, like Trelawny, was one of the dare-devil
generation. He wrote some of the finest prose in the
language, and he lived a brave life. He belonged to
the fighting set, and it must have vexed the heart of
the sturdy old bruiser to see the nation taking gener-
ally to milk and moral sentiments instead of cleaving
to their old fashions. He saw the big fight between
Painter and Tom Oliver in 1830, and he lived to see
quarrels settled by the knife, or the clog, or by oratory.
He fought the best boxer of his day, and he lived to
see the time when the pet hero of English fiction is a
gentleman who takes a blow in the face without return-
ing it. He was a brave old man, and lam rather glad
he ia gone. Ido not—l really do not and cannot—
think that the settlement of Transvaal delighted him.”
The way sub-inspector Kaye, of the Queensland
Native Ponce, met his death was this. Ho and sub-
inspector Nicholl were together interviewing a mob of
wild blacks, near Woolgar, on the 12th September. Mr.
Nicholl noticed some of them making off into the bush,
and, being better mounted than Kaye, rode to the
police camp, two miles distant, for three other troopers,
leaving his fellow officer behind. On returning, he
found Mr. Kaye lying dead with a spear through his.
heart. Mr. Snell, of Savannah, who had joined Kaye
shortly be/ore he was attacked, had a very narrow
escape, and a trooper also was nearly speared.
Dr. Sides, of Bourke, bad his recognisances as
a witness estreated by Judge Dowling because he failed
to attend and give evidence at Dubbo assizes in a charge
of rape. The doctor’s case is a very hard one. Firstly,
the expenses allowed him as a witness are utterly dis-
proportionate to his earnings at his profession; in the
next place, he is the only doctor at Bourke, and is in
charge of the local hospital, where he is at present
treating several serious cases. The question was, there-
fore, whether he should, for seven or eight days, leave
a whole town and an hospital without the services of a
doctor, or subordinate his own interests, and those of
his patients to the convenience of the Crown.
Mr. T. Watson, one of the earliest diggers on
the Forbes goldfield, is dead. He had of late years
been a boniface, but formerly carried on his business
as a baker in some of the first-opened goldfields in
Victoria, and was known to hundreds of miners in this
as well as the sister colonies of Victoria and New
Zealand. He had a kind generous heart, and many a
digger can testify that when he was “down on his
luck,” and had not the wherewithal to pay his baker,
he would find a pound note on his tent table on a Mon-
day morning instead of a baker’s bill. Mr, Watson
was the first man who over put a " whip” up on the
Lachlan diggings, and he frequently used to talk of
the aipusomont which this way of raising dirt from
deep ground caused to the new chum diggers on the
field.
A correspondent [writes ;—“ There ia a family in
Cooktown—you may have heard this before—[.No, we
haven’t, and we never heard anything like it before,
either; but go on. If you say it’s true, we’ll believe
it.] named after the ancients. The eldest son is De-
mosthenes ; he is a pupil teacher, and has tried the
examinations to get a little higher ; but he can’t do it;
the name kills him. The next ia a girl, Galatea ; she is
also a teacher, and has only tried one examination as
yet, but the name kept her back, too. Then there is
Sophocles; and on his heels comes a maiden who
carries round the name of Alabama. The last of the
classical bunch is to bo called Socrates, if the gods don|t
transplant him to an early tomb.” £Of course, we don’t
doubt any of this; we’d die sooner. But we notice
our correspondent lives in the same colony as Ska-
thorpe.^l
We notice from a copy of a paper with the high-
falutin’ title of the Irish World and American and
Industrial Liberator, forwarded to us by an obliging
correspondent, that the Rev. Father Leeming, whose
artistic levant from these shores will be fresh_ in the
memories of many, was in August last posing at
Halifax, Nova Scotia, as a Land League leader. The
paper from which we quote alludes to the rev. gentle-
man as being " commonly known in the States as the
Australian orator.” Dr. Leeming, it says, “ has com-
pletely turned the tables at Halifax in favour of the
League. He is a Catholic priest, from the archdiocese
of Sydney, and is compelled at present to remain in a
cold climate, owing to a severe injury to his leg.”
Exactly. The “ Australian orator ” ran away so fast
from Sydney that he may possibly have hurt his leg. By
the way, we wonder whether Chiniquy had a "bad leg
when he visited Australia ?
A complete catalogue of the books in that moat
splendid of all colonial institutions, the Melbourne
Public Library, has just been issued. It consists of a
couple of bulky volumes, of about 1000 pages each.
GHASTLY DISCLOSURES.
HOW A SYDNEY UNDERTAKER TREATS THE
LIVING AND THE DEAD.
Every now and then revelations are made
which afford evidence of the callousness to which
custom brings those tradesmen who make it their busi-
ness to attend to the funeral rites of the dead. It ia
only the other day that in Victoria an undertaker was
detected, having actually in his front shop the moulder-
ing remains of several children, whose bodies had been
entrusted to him for interment. The man actually re-
sided in the same premises, and transacted his business
in the very room where these poor corrupting relics of
infancy were stored, like so much uncured bacon.
Again, the telegraph brought, scarcely a week ago, in-
telligence of a funeral having been solemnly conducted
and the burial service read over an empty coffin, the
proper occupant of which had been surreptitiously re-
moved, prior to the coffin being placed in the hearse.
Not so long ago, a man brought into the office of this
journal a wooden box, like a gin case, which he placed
upon the floor, preparatory to explaining his business.
The box was an empty cherry-case, in which, the
merest chance had led him to discover, the body
of his infant had been doubled up and crushed down
for burial.
* * •
little facts break out from time to time, which
help to show how horrible the proceedings of low
undertakers sometimes are. The most frequent vic-
tims are the very poor, because for them redress is
almost inaccessible. “ High-toned,” powerful journals,
conducted by proprietors whose wealth has placed a
great gulf between them and the lower classes from
whence they spring, discourage correspondence from
any who are not what they are pleased to consider
11 representative men; ’’ that is to say, men who have
already influence and position to take their own part,
press or no press. The very poor have no representative
men in the sense understood by these "stand-off”
journalists. To our mind, however, a man is intensely
representative for the very reason that he is desperately
poor, very ignorant, unreasonable,
“ bad form,” vulgar, and scarcely
capable of intelligibly conveying his
grievances. There are so many such,
and there are so few who have the
patience, the sense of justice, and
the good feeling to listen to them,
to unravel their tangled narrative, to
peel off the husk of distorted fact,
exaggeration, and colouring, and to
arrive at the kernel ef real suffering
and wrongs which often underlie all
these. "An oyster may be crossed
in love,” says the philosophic dra-
matist; and surely a very poor man,
a very low person—a bricklayer’s
hodman, or a sweeper of common
gutters—may feel the pang of sorrow
when wife or child lies dead on the
truckle bed of his poor hovel. But
the cheap undertaker has no patience
with sentiment. His motto might
appropriately be, " In God we trust-
all others cash,” seeing that he
trades upon the religious instincts
and social sensibilities of the people;
thrives upon their belief that this
body shall arise unchanged at the last
day, to meet its Savisur and Judge;
and avails himself of these ideas,
beliefs, and feelings, to grind the
very bones of the poor.
* 5 #
Wo have before us a letter,
written by an ex-assistant to an un-
dertaker, to whom it has happened
that what ho so often professionally
took part in has come nearly home to
himself. It is a frequent cose, that
those who find that they are under
the necessity of doing business with
those enterprising and energetic
tradesmen who push their concerns
by exhibiting samples of embellished
coffin-lids in their windows, are
totally inexperienced in such trans-
actions. Besides, however much ex-
perience a person may unfortunately
have had, human nature revolts at
the idea of, and most people are
quite incapacitated for, haggling and
striking bargains for the disposal of
the remains of the dear one who lies
cold and inanimate in the bed of
death. Very few, indeed, are so
case-hardened as to be in a fit con-
dition of mind, at such a time, to go
from undertaker to undertaker, in
order to learn the proper rate to be
paid for the requisite services. And
even were there persons capable of
such commercial prudence at a
moment of the kind, there is gener-
ally a strong repugnance to do aught
which would bo felt to resemble
putting a slight upon the sacred
memory of the dead by bargaining
for disposing of the remains in the
cheapest possible way.
* # «
Thus it generally happens that
the undertaker and his customers do
not meet on equal towns. The under-
taker is master of himself. It is
business with him, and the mental
discomposure of his customer is his
opportunity. This affects In some
degree all classes. The customer
shrinks from anything like haggling;
the dealer knows this by experience,
and makes his profit by it. Soma
fortunate individuals, surrounded by
the hosts of friends whom prosperity
generally attracts, may have obliging
deputies to relievo them of all these
painful negotiations. But the very
poor seldom can secure such friendly
offices. The labouring man, already
hampered by the expenses of sickness in his home, can-
not possibly afford to lose more working days than are
absolutely necessary. All his circumstances will
permit him to do is to call on the nearest " cheap ’*
undertaker, on his way to work, and desire that the
requisite coffin may be sent to his house, and the
funeral attended to. It sometimes happens that he
cannot even afford to attend the funeral himself.
« * *
But oocasionaUy he ia lucky if he succeeds in
getting a funeral at all. The cheap undertaker has to
live, you know, like any other tradesman, and doubtless
ho has been " had ” over and over again. His proposed
customer may be a very honest fellow, and yet from a
tradesman’s point of view, a very bad mark. That
would be sufficient reason for declining to do business
with him, right away. But it can be no justification
for taking advantage of the customer’s natural grief,
and the peculiar sensitiveness of his mind at that par-
ticular time, to black-mail him by sending a coffin at
the last moment, and then refusing to deliver it with-
out money on the nail. It can be no justification for
demanding double the proper price, merely because the
poor man is placed in a dilemma by a deliberate plot,
and has no time to turn himself round.
* ♦ *
Now, this ia precisely what is being done every
day. About a fortnight ago, a working man’s child
died, little more than a week old. Its poor little body
needed but a trifling shall. The father went to a cheap
undertaker, in Sydney, and a mourning coach was duly
sent out at the time fixed for the interment, with a
coffin. But the driver of the coach walked into the
house and produced a bill for £4, which he said must
be paid before the child could be buried. This was a
doubly scandalous thing. In the first place, it was dis-
graceful to wait until that painful moment when the
mother is weeping at the thought that the innocent
lineaments of the child of her bosom are about to disap-
pear from before her eyes for ever in this world. The
payment should have been required before or not till
after. But, in the second place, it was black-mailing;
because the charge was double what it ordinarily is for
a funeral of this kind, and the undertaker’s calculation
obviously was that the amount would be paid, in pre-
ference to having a " scene." And in this calculation
THE HON. JAS. GESSLER AND ALFRED TELL.
IN THE GLOAMING.
In the morning, oh, my darling.
When my pulse is very low.
And the soda brightly sparkling.
Hissing down my throat doth go,—
When my head is throbbing faintly
With a nasty new-born pain.
Will you think of me, and lead me
To the nearest pub. again ?
BAND OF HOPE.


BAChELOES’ HALL COMPANY (LIMITED)
CHUECH HILL, SYDNEY.
To be incorporated under the Companies’ Act, with
liability to the amount of the shares, and as much
again in liquidation only. (The same as the banks
and other mercantile companies).
CAPITAL, £21,000, in 4200 SHAEES of £5 EACH.
Provisional Directors:
G. A. MUEEAY, Esq. (late P. N. Enssell and Co.)
F. T. MUEPHY, Esq. (Ashfield)
ALFEED HILDEE, Esq, (W. Wolfen and Co.)
WILLIAM CLAEKE, Esq , M.L.A. (John Wilson and
Co., York-streot)
Bankers:
The Commercial Bank.
Solicitors:
Messrs. STEPHEN, LAUEENCE. and JAQUES,
Architect:
THOMAS EOWE, Esq.
Broker:
Mr. -TORTATT MULLENS, 34 Hunter-street. Sydney.
The Company is formed for the purpose of providing
a First-class Eesidence for single gentleman living_ in
Sydney, and for visitors to the city, which will combine
the comforts of a Home and the luxuries of a Club, with
an amount of freedom not usually to be obtained in
lodgings, and at a cost much lower than board at an
hotel.
An eligible site in the centre of the city, of ample
dimensions for the purpose, has been secured in the
vacant ground at the top of Jamison-street, near the
Scots Cnuroh.
The land is held on a lease of 30 years at a ground
rent of £330 per annum, with option of purchase by the
Company at any time for the sum of £6OOO.
The leading feature of the scheme is the assumption
that the most profitable part of the business of hotels is
the letting of the beds. The Hall will find breakfast
only to residents, leaving them to avail themselves of
the provided by other numerous establish-
ments of the day. Full meals will be provided on Sun-
days only, and the whole of the catering will be let by
contract.
Details are fully explained in another circular, which
may be obtained on application to the Broker, Mr
MULLENS, 34 Hunter-street.
Establishments of this kind are very successful in
England and the United States, and there is no reason
to suppose that the comforts provided in the Hall
will not be equally appreciated here.
The financial results are estimated as follows
The hall will have 138 bedrooms, with 150 beds to let,
with capacity of increase to 180, and it is taken for
granted that out of this number 130 will bo in con-
stant occupation.
The receipts for these, at an average of 12s 61
per week ... .... ... £4225 0 0
Eent of Billiard-room, and other
sources... ... ... 800 0 0
£5025 0 0
The expenditure is fully estimated as under
Management and servants ... ... £lOOO 0 0
Ground rents, gas, and rates 630 0 0
Eepairs, replacement, printing, advertising,
and contingencies 658 0 0
Sinking fund for purchase of the freehold
in thirty years 87 0 0
Profit 2650 0 0
£5025 0 0
This will pay a dividend of 12) per cent, per annum
on the full capital of £21,000.
The Architect—Mr. Eowe—has very carefully esti-
mated the cost of the building, and he pledges his
reputation that the whole will be finished and furnished
complete for occupation within the limits of the
capital. His detailed report willibe found injthe circular
above. The whole building will be so arranged and
erected that it can be turned at a very small cost into a
first-class modern hotel.
The promoters have been nt considerable expense in
securing the site of the hall and in organising the
scheme, and they are so confident of its success that
they accept for their claim 400 shares paid-up in full.
The only charge on the subscribed capital, will be the
broker’s commission and the other usual charges
incurred in forming the Company.
As the Provisional Directors are advised that 6 per
cent, debentures will be readily taken up on such se-
curity as that offered herein, the Company will be con-
sidered to be floated as soon as 2000 shares are applied
for.
The financial result of such an issue of debentures, on
a subscription of 2000 shares of £5 each, would be as
follows: —
CAPITAL BEAEING DIVIDEND,
Promoters’shares, 400 at £5...£2,000 0 0
Subscribers’ shares, 2000 at £5...10,000 0 0
£12,000 0 0
Debenture capital, bearing a fixed interest
of 6 per cent 9,000 0 0
£21,000 0 0
Net profit as above £2650 0 0
Less interest on debentures,
6 per cent on £9OOO ... 540 0 0
Profit available for dividend ... ... ...£2,110 0
Dividend on £12,000, at 17) per cent per
annum...
... £2, 100 0 0
Mr. Eowe estimates the cost of the hall furnished at
£17,000 In the event of the contracts bearing this out,
the capital will only be called up to the extent required.
The shares will be allotted in the order of application,
and the Provisional Directors reserve to themselves the
right to close the list at any time after the 2000 shares
are applied for.
Application must be made to Mr. J. MULLENS, 34
Hunter-street, on the annexed form, and aceompanied
by a payment of deposit of £1 per share. The sum of
£2 per share is payable on allotment, and the balance
of £2 per share as may be required, in calls of 10a. per
share, at intervals of not less than one month,
J. MULLENS,
Stock snd Share Broker,
34 Hunter-street.
Sydney, October 3,1881.
Application,
To Mr. Josiah Mullens, Broker for the
Bachelors’ Hall Company, Limited.
Sir, I hereby request that you will allot
me Shares in the above Company, and now
enclose £1 per Share as deposit; and! hereby under-
take to accept the above Shares, or anv portion thereof
that may be alloted to me, and to sign the Deed of
Settlement when called npon to do so.
Dated this day of , 1881,
Name in full
Address
Occupation
T
HEA T E E
E O T A L.
Lessee .....Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. G. L. Goodman.
17th Week of the
LONDON OPEEA COMIQUE SEASON.
TO-NIGHT,
LA FILLS DU TAMBOUE MAJOE.
idmission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. , . , , , „
)oors open at 7.30. Overture at ten minutes to 8
lock precisely.
'ickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may bo pur-
ged during the day at H. Soltan’s, tobacconist, 116
ig-street.
■ I C T O E I A HALL.
Lessee and Manager Mr. D’Arcy Bead.
>mplete success of D’AECY BEAD’S GHOST. Q o
see “BEAUTY and the BEAST, “The Wate r
aphs,” and the astonishing “ Haunted House,
imission—3s, 2s, Is. . . , .
seats at A. Huenerbein s, George-street,
>mmence at 8 o’clock.
SYDNEY HALL, Business Manager
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTILITY TOGETHER!
WHEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or what can resist them ? All three are
the ruling principles at the
PALACE EMPORIUM.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES as proof both positive and certain o
the soundness of those principles upon which their business is based. The peopla IV\V a FT
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GRE AT PALACE EMPORIUM HAYMARKLT,
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We are now showing daily
JUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS.
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap You mayprofitably spend % few
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A V1&IT to the PALACE LMPORi Uil
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASH-
MERE, BEIGE, &c.
DRESSMAKING.
MANCHESTER
GOODS.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
L ADIE3 & CHILDREN
MANTLES, COS-
TUMES. MILLI-
NERY, &0.
••FANCY” GOODS.
YOUTHS' and MEN'S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ONLY ONE ADDRESS
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an immense assortment at la 6d, la Bd.
and Is 10d per yard. Of the truly splendid JAUBERT GROS GRAIN SILK
these are 2000 yards at 2s per yard ; 2200 at 2s 3d; 10 pieces at 2s 6d per yard ;
IftAt 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3 cases, the prices ranging from da bd to
10i6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GROS GRAIN, known as BONNET S
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s 6d, 4s 3d, ss, 6s 3d, up to Us 6d. Our
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are beauty itself. Once see them, and
it will be long before you forget them. There is COLOURED SATIN ; al |°.
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 22d per yard. There is every shade.
A pain there is the beautiful FRENCH BEIGE, all wool, all shades, "id a
yard the fashionable SARATOGA COSTUME CLOTH, at 9d.
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, remarkably cheap and good; and there
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all coiours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT, turning out
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly and yet carefully.
There are CALICOES in all makes and at low prices. There is DIMITY
FIGURED from sfcd; TABLE DAMASK from ls4d; LINEN DIAPER at
all prices, and COTTON DIAPER at6d; GREY SHEETING from 6*d up to
Is 3d; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ranging from 7id to ls7id; and iwill
from lOd up to 1s 9d There are TURKISH TOWELS. 6*d each; and
HONEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED, 5s 9J; PRINTED, from 4s lid?
and the “ RENOWNED VELVET PILE,” 2ts, may ba obtained.
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The goods are either button, elastic, or
laced. They are durable and fashionable. Yon may get anything here, from
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LADY’S COURT SdOE.
There are 330 beautiful DOLMANS and JACKETS There are 300 superb
COSTUMES. There is every sort of shape in STRAW HATS and BONNETS.
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sight in itself.
There are RIBBONS, alUhades, all colours, all prices. There is LACE,
Spanish, Cream, Gold, REAL BBETONNE, &c. The PALACE KID
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innumerable.
There is a continuous stream of Customers for our SUJTS for Youths and
Boys, and for our well-known cheap and fashionable TROUSERS, VKb 13,
SUITS, SHIRTS, HATS, CAPS, COLLARS, SCARFS, and NECKTIES
for men.
And the great point to be observed is this, that we have ONLY ONE
address, and NO BRANCHES whatever, our card of business being simply
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMABEET,
(ONLY,)
SYDNEY.
THE LARGEST SALE OF WATCHES AND JEWELLERY
EVER HELD IN SYDNEY,
In consequence of Extensive Alterations to Premises.
C. SAFER
legs to inform his friends and the public general that he is determined to offer hia
aagnificent stock of WATCHES and JEWELLERY at a Reduction of FIFTY PEE CENT
o as to effect a speedy clearance, and as the sale is a bona fide one, and must positively close in a few
reeks, no time should be lost in securing bargains suitable for Birthday, Christmas, and other Presents.
The following List of a few of the Prices will convince all that such an opportunity of purchasing
IENUINE and FIRST-CLASS GOODS from an Old-Established House cannot occur again
SEE THE PRICES!
Eednced price.
3 10 0 each
ilver English Levers...
otheram’s Silver Lovers
Iver Waltham Watches
tidies’ Gold Watches
denial Gold Alberts
nglish Gold „
adies’ Gold „
old Lockets
Single Stone, Half Hoop
4 15
2 15
2 10
4 0
2 15
5 0
0 7
0
0 „
0 „
Of’oz
0
o „
6 each
Original price
6 0 0 each
0 „
0
0
0
0
0 each
7 10
5 0
5 10
6 0
4 0
7 10
0 15
Eednced price. Original price
Colonial Gold Earrings... 010 6 f pair 110 O^pair
Colonial Gold Brooches... 0 10
Wedding Kings 0 4
Keeper Rings 0 5
Gold Studs 0 4
Silver Brooches & Earrings 0 5
Silver Bracelets 0 7
Silver Kings 0 1
6 each 1 0
9 „ 010
0 „ 010
0 0 10
6 „ 015
6 each 0 17
6„ 0 3
0 each
0
0 ii
esjp- set
0 ii
6 each
6
, and Cluster Diamond Rings, equally Low Prices.
Note the Address : 314 (Late 328) GEORGE STREET.
£l_OOD NEWS FOE THE DEAF.
THE AUDIPHONE
(Just to hand, direct from the inventor),
An Instrument that enables
DEAF PERSONS TO HEAR ORDINARY
CONVERSATION
readily through the medium of the teeth, and those
bom
DEAF AND DUMB, TO HEAR
AND
LEARN TO SPEAK.
The external ear has nothing whatever to do in hearing
with this WONDERFUL INSTRUMENT.
APPLY-
L. S. LOEWENTHAL,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
GENERAL STOREKEEPER, GRAFTON,
CLARENCE RIVER, NEW SOUTH WALES.
ME. AND MRS. EDWIN PALMER.
(LEADING OLD MAN AND WOMAN.)
Another great success as
MR. AND MRS. MOLE.
Open at Brisbane, Oct. 10.
jyj-R. and MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
ON TOUR,
ADDRESS:
Hobart, October 10th.
New Zealand to follow.
T
|HE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,000,000. Reserve Fund, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; Williani B. Wolford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Bundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Fnend, Esq.
General Manager :
Vincent Wanostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEOIGE STREET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Kedfern,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bourke, Bnndarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gren-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, HiUston, Inverell,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Molong,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockley, Rylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfield, Ulmarra,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wall send, Wentworth, West
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, Tass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Ravens wood, Rockhampton, Stanthorpe, Toowoomba,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
Legal.—n. w. cooke, Solicitor, office :
3 Ground Floor, Wentworth Court. PRIVATE
ADDRESS: 16 Sir John Young’s Cresent, Opposite
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
The agents of the Universal Sewing Machine
Co., Messrs. Farleigh, Nettheim, and Co., King-street,
Sydney, are hitting out in the right direction, being
determined to compete with the more popular machines
of the day; and in order to augment their business,
have opened branch establishments in Maitland and
Tamworth —the former being underjthe management of
Mr. A. Barton, who, with the assistance of Mr. F. A.
Wail, we understand, is driving a business, a special
prize at Tamworth having been obtained for this
machine.— Apt.
an undertaker, whs chooses hie marks judiciously—
that is to say, people, who, though poor, are decent and
quiet—generally “cornea out right.” If the aggrieved
and robbed customer comes afterwards to the shop
about the charge, he can be cajoled or bluffed, as seems
most likely to suit. In one case that we have informs-
tion about, a person so complaining was told that ir he
did not clear out, a constable would be sent for to lock
him up. Very possibly the aggrieved man had been
abusive and had brought himself under the letter of the
law, and knew it. A very good dodge is, of course, to
egg on an irate customer to lose his temper and use
unbecoming expressions before witnesses—the under-
taker’s own people. Should the victim fall into nits
trap all is well. He will not venture to appeal to the
law, knowing that he may get no remedy in his own
plaint, but is quite certain to bo fined and saddled with
costs, on the charge the undertaker will bring against
him.
» • •
11 it is a common thing,” writes an under-
taker’s assistant to us, “ for this man” (specifying a
particular cheap undertaker) “ to take iu orders from
poor people, send the coffin to the house, and then
leave the body stinking there, sometimes four or five
days, because the people have not the full amount of
money to give him.”
# • •
Why, this is a splendid plan. There used to
kings and barons in the good old times—alas! we have
none such now, except the Czars of Russia, who come
near the old mark—who, when they could get hold of a
r oh burger or fat Jew, would roast him oyer a slow
fire, or pull his teeth, gradually, or his nails, till he
disgorged as much money as the monarch was graciously
pleased to want; and then if he were not so overdone
in roasting as to dio, he would be turned loose to go and
make some more money for another time. But this
was merely physicial torture. The cheap undertaker
puts the mind as well as the body on the slow fire. To
tbe physical misery of having to live in a house made
unbearable by the odour of corruption—we do not mean
the Town Hall—he is able to add the distraction of
one’s beloved wife, brother, sister, father, mother, or
cherished child, but yesterday the light of one’s eyes
and the very core of one’s heart, lying there turning into
a loathsome thing before one’s very eyes. It is misery
enough to be dunned, God knows, and the poor know—
the rich know nothing of it—but to bo dunned with
such diabolical addition, it must be like a foretaste of
hell—misery of body and wretchedness of mind.
• • •
“This man,” writes onr informant, “has
ordered me to go to houses where the body has been
quite rotten; and, if I did not get the money, to take
the body out of the coffin, and fetch it back to the
shop 1 And I am sure that if the body had been lifted
out it would have fallen to pieces.” This is a page in
“the simple annals of the poor," worthy perusal by
Funeral Reform Associations, all over the world.
* • •
But this is not all. As we have stated, it happens
at times that the father or husband, with the doctor and
chemist to pay, and the undertaker’s thumb-screw on
him at full pressure, cannot possibly afford to lose a
day’s work to attend the funeral even of his wife or
child The affair is entrusted to the undertaker. What
occurs then is that, if that tradesman happens to have
on hand a few children similarly entrusted to him for
interment, and doesn’t happen to forget all about their
being in stock (as the Melbourne undertaker did), he
conveys the adult corpse to his own premises, opens
the shell, and jama in a corpse or so of still-born
children. This is a very profitable plan. The under-
taker economises thereby to the extent of so many
children’s coffins, already paid for, and a corresponding
number of graves, with fees, and so forth.
* * •
Now, if any well-to-do persons have, while
perusing the foregoing, comforted themselves with the
assurance that it does not affect them anyhow,
they will feel differently if they will but read
on. “At respectable houses ’’—mark the current
phrase which makes the possession of means a con-
vertible idea with respectability—“ where he gets a
good price for funerals," this undertaker still finds his
opportunities from the sensibilities of the grief-stricken
friends of the deceased. To the minds of most people
there is something repellant as well as sad about the
dread last offices to the remains. The weeping relatives
kiss for the last time the pale cold brew, and take a
farewell look at the familiar features, now composed in
death, and looking peaceful in the decent snowy shroud,
perchance adorned with a few flowers, the last offerings
o! affection. And then they are gravely and respect-
fully ushered out of the room by the solemn-visaged
professors of the art of funeral rites. And, no sooner
has the door closed behind them, than, while one man
stands by to prevent intrusion, another —screws down
the lid f No—robs the body of its very winding-
sheet and face cloth. “ I have seen him do this
times beyond numbering,” writes the undertaker’s
assistant, our informant. And there are worse indig-
nities than even this. A quick wrench of the mouth,
a dexterous scoop of the black-coated thief's finger, and
the artificial teeth with their gold mounting is in the
violator’s palm, quickly to be slipped into his pocket,
and afterwards to be beaten ont of shape and sold to
the jewellers or pawnbrokers as battered old gold.
Many a maiden wears upon her finger an engaged ring,
many a wife wears a wedding hoop, of which the gold
has been filched from the month of the dead.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Serious rising in Ireland reported The frozen
mutton per Orient a groat success. Sold at 6d, per lb.,
the highest figure yet The President of the Trans-
vaal has, by’order ef the Yolksraad.ltelegraphed to the
British Government requesting modification of several
clauses of the Convention Earthquake felt from
Adrianople to Gallipoli, Turkey The Ameer has
entered Candahar in triumph. Groat rejoicings there.
French troops have occupied the city of Tunis
A farmer at Rathbone, Ireland, murdered for persisting
in paying rent to his landlord A labourer at Kan-
turk. County Cork, has been himself boycotted for
supplying a boycotted farmer. The latter was assaulted
and mortally injured Prisoners made under the
Coercion Act, liberated from Athlon, Bridewell, have
received an ovation Secret sitting of the Transvaal
Volksraad to consider the report of the committee ap-
pointed to inquire into the Convention Sir Stafford
Northcote, the Conservative leader, admits the neces-
sity for amendment of the English Land Laws Mr.
Gladstone declares that there is no necessity in Eng-
land for remedies such as those provided in the Irish
Land Act, but that changes are required to relieve
English tenants from the burdens under which they
labour At Leeds, referring to the state of Ireland,
Mr. Gladstone characterised Parnell’s policy as a
gospel of public plunder, combined with degrading and
immortal doctrines, and he foreshadowed strong repres-
sive action in Ireland With respect to the Boer’s
protest against the recent Convention, Mr. Gladstone
said concessions might be found advisable, but the
Government would maintain the interests of the
natives, and the dignity of the Crown. Referring to
Afghanistan, he adhered to non-intervention Meet-
ing of the British Cabinet called, probably to consider
the condition of Ireland France and England have
each sent a man-of-war to Alexandria to support the
Khedive in his efforts to restore order in Egypt
Serious riots in Kilkenny. Several persons killed and
wounded An Italian Darque has been destroyed by
the explosion of her cargo of petroleum The French
troops have occupied Tunis Guiteau is feigning
insanity Baron Haymerle, Auslrian Minister of
Foreign Affairs, is dead Senator Bayard, Democrat,
has been temporarily elected to the office of U.S. Vice-
President Parnell denounces Gladstone as the
unscrupulous slanderer of Ireland Moody and
Sankey made a hit at Newcastle-on-Tyne The British
troops in Natal have been hastily ordered to the Zulu
frontier. Another native rising imminent Sir
Charles Qavan Duffy to be married to his cousin. Miss
Hall, in November.


J
0 H N SAND
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS
and
NEW YEAR CARDS.
S’
This Collection has been specially designed to meet a
much needed requirement, namely, that of providing-
cards suitable for sending home calculated to convey to
our friends an idea, not only of the beauty of our
scenery and flora, but, at the same time, show the
advance Australia, and Sydney in particular, is making
in the Fine Arts.
There being an erroneous idea prevalent—owing to
their excellence—that these cards have been produced
in Europe from colonial designs, I take this opportunity
of informing the public that they have been specially
drawn on stone by Artists in my employ, and produced
by the Chromo-Lithographic process at my own works,
and are the result of a competition held at the Art
Gallery of N. S. W., in May last, for premiums of the
value of fifty guineas, given by me for the best Christ,
mas Card Designs. These are thirty-eight in number,
and include, amongst other cards illustrative of Bush
Life, Australian Animals, Fruits, Flowers, Birds, and
Insects, Colonial Scenery, Amusements of Children,
Pastoral and Allegorical subjects, and will in each case
have verses appropriate to the occasion selected from
those gaining the premium of twenty-five guineas
recently given by me.
The cards will be on sale on and after Monday,
October 17, and may be obtained at all stationers in the
colonies, and direct from vv
JOHN SANDS*
CHROMO-LITHOGRAPHIC WORKS,
374 George-street.
m
\\nZARD OIL; is a distinguishing
' ” name, given by Frank Weston to
ns Medicine, which is composed oi
various Vegetable Oils, Healing Gums,
| T ar ® Balsams, Roots, Barks and
Herbs, (found only on the Great Amer-
ican Continent,) forming the Chemical
Compound universally known as
Weston’s Wizard Oil.’*
This Medicine was first introduced,
by Frank Weston, to the Australian
Public in 1864, and the wonderful and
'nystcrious influence it exhibited in
I- pping tiie most exci’uciating Pains,
( lies and Infirmities, in a few days
der its use is well known. Its mirac-
ous power in rising the Bed-ridden,
■" rpled.Kheumatic,Heuralgic,divest-
g the system of all suffering from
i u. inflammation and weakness,
! Dig in a few days the sickness and
s< ases of months and years giving
>(anl uxxeous Base and Comfort in ail
ma; y pains and aches,either inter-
external, all cramps, spasms,
1 *t t o> s. &<*., is well known.
ton’s Wiaaj d Oil has the power
i i bate itself over every part of
b dy internally as well as exterxx-
>nr n the most inveterate cases
tui rs ulcers, scrofula, diseased
o i s swellings, wounds, &c.,&c.
OPERA HOUSI
Sole Lessee ...
Director
Business Agent
Mr. W. J. Wilsen.
Mr. Charles Turner.
Mr. Wilson Le Contour.
FAREWELL WEEK of the Celebrated
MONTAGUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY.
Montague-Tumer Opera Company.
Commencing MONDAY, October 17, 1881,
and five following nights.
The above operas cannot possibly be repeated.
Box plan now open at A. Huenerbein’s, George-stret
opposite Royal Hotel, where seats may be secured.
N.B.—The performance will terminate each event
before 11, giving ample time to reach the Manly Boa
and the Randwick, Waverley, and Woollahra Trams.
ONDI BEACH, BOND
BONDI PACIFIC PAVILION.
Open every SATURDAY AFTERNOON from 2tc
o clock, for DANCING.
The finest Pavilion in the Southern Hemisphere.
G. Bailey’s Excelsior Brass Band and efficient M.C.
in attendance.
Admittance, 25.; Ladies free.
A FIRST-CLASS BILLIARD TABLE.
The finest double SKITTLE ALLEY in the Colonies
J. HEINZ, Proprietor.
N.B.— Open for engagement for Picnic parties.
ATHLETIC CLU
The following is the Programme for the Prince
Wales Birthday, 9th November: —
1. Maiden Plate, 120 yards. Ist prize, £2: 2nd dit
£l. Entrance, 2s. 6d.
2. Lithgow Handicap, 150 yards. Ist prize, £l5 • S
ditto, £3; 3rd|ditto, £2. Entrance 10s., to be sen!
the Secretary on or before the Ist November.
3. Go-as-you-please for one hour. Ist prize, a splen
Enghsh Lever Watch, value £8 Bs., presented
Mr. N. Borchardt; sweep of ss. to go to sect
runner. Entrance free.
i. Handicap Running High Jump. Ist prize, £1; S
ditto, 10s. Entrance Is.
5. Novel Ra«e; Picking up 50 potatoes, a yard apa
Ist prize, ±2; 2nd ditto, 10s. Entrance 2s.
6. Siamese Race, Ist prize, £2; 2nd ditto. 1
Entrance 2s.
7. Hop, Step, and Jump. Ist prize, £1 ; 2nd ditto. 1
Entrance Is.
8. Egg and Spoon Race, 75 yards. Prize £l. Entrai
la.
9. Bovs’ Race, 75 yards. Ist prize, 155.; 2nd ditto
10. Sack Race, 75 yards. Ist prize, £1; 2nd ditto *1
11. Tuo op War, Eight aside. Prize £2. Entran
6d a man.
Good Band engaged, and a programme of dances v
be published.
G. F. SOUTER,
Secretary
W
‘ANTED Full Company of FIBST-CLAS
DRAMATIC ARTISTES for Christmas St
Apply 1
son, at Theatre Royal, Hobart, Tasmania,
letter, WALTER REYNOLDS, Sydney.
S'
TEAM to MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH and ROCKHAMPTON.
The undersigned will despatch the STEAMSHIPS
(when practicable) as follows, from STSUTH’S
WHARF, foot of Ring-street :
OFFICES, 7 SPRING-STREET.
FOR MELBOURNE.
Leura | J Pain ... I Friday, Oct. 14,4p.m.
BaisrabooXi ... I Chas. Ashford I Tuesday, Oct 19,4p.m.
Cheviot ... )W. Donaldson ( Friday, Oct. 22, 4 p.m.
FOE BRISBANE.
Derwent
Keibawarra
I H. B. Bristow | Tuesday, Oct. 19,3p.m.
|J. H. South | Tuesday, Oct. 26, 430
FOE MARYBOROUGH.
Derwent *..
Keilawabba
H. B. Bristow J Tuesday Oct. 19, 4.30
J. H. South .. | Tuesday, Oct. 26, 4.30
FOR ROCKHAMPTON.
Derwent ... |H. B. Bristow | Tuesday, Oct. 19, 4.30
Keilawarra... | J. H. South... (Tuesday, Oct. 26,4.30
Cargo received for the above ports every day. Fore-
cabin passengers supplied with bedding and victualled
free.
WM. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
7 Spring-street,
SATURDAY, 0 CTOB ER 15.
UNRESERVED SALE.
THE TAM ARAM A VIEW ESTATE.
WAVERLEY. BONDI.
25 ALLOTMENTS,
having frontages to
BIRBELL and TAMAEAMA STREETS,
for many years known as the property of Mr. DUFFY.
NOW SUBDIVIDED into
VILLA SITES.
This Estate is surrouuded by “ The Glen,” the pro-
perty of D. Fletcher, Bs<i„ Maudeville, the residence of
Mrs. Barker, and the property of A. K. Mackenzie
Esq.
TITLE,—Apply T. J. DICKSON, Esq., Solicitor,
Castlereagh-street.
HARDIE AND GORMAN.
HAVE received instructions to sell by public
auction
ON THE GROUND.
FOR POSITIVE UNRESERVED SALE.
NEXT SATURDAY, OCTOBER Isth,
At 3 o’clock.
THE TAMAKAMA VIEW ESTATE.
LITHOS, AT THE ROOMS.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGI
Affiliated to Trim Coll., London.
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY
Principal:
Dr. EODWAY, M.A., F.R.S L. (Lon.) '
CLASSES ONLY are conducted by D
KUDyvAY, and the number of students in each class
strictly limited to TEN, so that ho may give to eac
gentleman that individual attention which will alor
secure success. Dr. Rodway’s system is easy and ell
cient, and he guarantees to pass every candidate h
sends to the University—Law, Civil Service, and a
Public Examinations.
FEES : Per term, in advance, for each class ... £4 4i
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor will bo
awarded upon the conclusion of each term.
191 William-street, Sydney
D». RODWAY ... PRINCIPAL.
840 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
The oontinuatisn of the series of papers on
“ Our Prison System ” will be found on page 6,
The General Synod of the Church of England
in Australia and Tasmania commenced its sittings in
Sydney, on Monday. The Bishops of Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Newcastle, North Queensland, and Perth, at-
tended.
“ I will advertise thee.” Eichmond Thatcher
is prepared to provide startling, interesting, and
humourous advertising paragraphs for insertion in The
Bulletin. Tradesmen wishing to increase their bnsi-
nesses, address or apply to Richmond Thaxciiek.
Bulletin Hotel.— Adv.
Why should not John Bull make as good a tea
ns John Chinaman P The Age, of October 6th, says
“ We have had fui ther evidence that Australia is being
turned to account by makers of spurious teas in Chin»,
as an outlet for their rubbish, which, if sent to Eng-
land, would be confiscated and burnt." If you want
pure, palatable tea, delicious in the cup and economic
in use, ask for the Calcutta Tea Association’s Pure
Indian Teas. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Charlotte-
place, Sydney.— Advt,
To keep fiiea away from houses—Eub the parts
on which, the insects chiefly settle with the concen-
trated oil of laurel. There is no danger in using it.
Another excellent and equally harmless remedy is a
solution of 60 grammes asafcetida, one wineglasstul of
vinegar, and two of water. N » fly will come near a
horse which has been treated with either of these pre-
parations.
The Medical profession order Cadbury’s Cocoa
Essence because it contains more nutritious and flesh-
forming elements than any other beveridgo, and is
preferable to be very thick starchy cocoa ordinarily
sold. When you ask for Cadbury’s Cocoa Essence, be
sore that you get it, as storekeepers often push imi-
tations for the sake of extra profit.— Anv,
LATE THEATRICAL.
The second drama from the pen of Mr. Walter
Reynolds, produced at the Queen’s Theatre, on Satur-
day night, shows that the author possesses the art of
dramatic construction in an eminent degree, while the
sprightliness of the dialogue speaks well for Mr.
Mr. Reynolds’ powers of humour. “Ould Erin,” from
a literary point of view, is greatly superior to “ Tried
and Trueand, as the piece affords more scope, alike
for the emotional aotor and the low comedian, it may
be termed, in every way, a more successful production
than the drama which preceded it.
# * «
The various tableaux at the end of the acts are
worked up, and designed with considerable skill, and
the enthusiasm of the large audience which has every
evening witnessed the drama, has been abundantly
demonstrated by most vociferous applause and invari-
able recalls. The manner in which the piece is acted
is a tribute to the administrative powers of the author.
The company c.rtainly work for him as they neverhave,
in our experience, worked for anyone else ; and the
result is than an evening at the Queens Theatre is now
an entertainment of a sufficiently enjoyable nature for
such as love the drama “ mellow.”
* # #
Aa Denny Doon, a wild Irish boy of the Miles-
na-Coppaleen type, Mr. Reynolds had a good chance,
and took it. All through the piece his humour never
flagged, and his brogue never once merged into the
Saxon. Mr. H. Flynn, as a starving farmer, was also
very effective ; and we are glad to see this gentleman
once more assuming his proper rank in his profession.
Mr. J. P. O’Neil, as usual, kept the audience in con-
tinual merriment; and Mr. Melville was moderately
successful as a gouty old “ heavy father.” Mr. Stone-
ham played with some force as the younger T)aly, but
his costume was exceedingly peculiar. Possibly, how-
ever, he intended us to regard its disordered condition
as typical of the disturbed state of Ireland, upon events
accruing from which the drama is founded. Miss
Marian Willis enacted the part of Denny’s love, Oona,
with great pathos and effect; but the same can by no
means be said of the lady (we do not try to remember
her name) who impersonated her sister, Constance.
The part of a “ mad maiden " was undertaken by Miss
Melville, and her efforts appeared to find great favour
with the pit. Certainly, a bigger shilling’s worth of
insanity could hardly have been doled out by any
actress. The other characters were suitably imper-
sonated—a Cockney footman by Mr. Ryan de Arrow-
smith being a diverting performance.
# # #
Mr. Reynolds produces another of his dramas
on Saturday night. In the words of Mr. Pott (a brother
pressman), we shall be there.
** * *
Mr. F. Maccabo announces his last nights at the
School of Arts. We do not, however, think that they
will be quite his last nights yet. Why run away ?
Wherefore let it. Fred, be told.
You scooted from a rain of gold ?
If, from a good fortune, you do go.
You arc a funny kind of pro. 1
We recommend those of our readers who intend visiting
the School of Arts during Mr. Maccabe’s term to
secure their seats beforehand; otherwise two will very
likely have to sit on one chair, there being no room to
squeeze on another. People with false teeth, too,
should be cautious A set was laughed right across
the hall the other night.
** * *
The performance at the Gaiety now fizzes like
a seidlitz powder—anyhow, so far as the comedy is con-
cerned. It is whispered that we are to see Mr. Dampier
in “ Hamlet” as soon as the tragedy can be suitably
mounted. This event will be eagerly looked forward to
by the playgoing section of the community, since Mr
Dampier’s impersonation of this test tragedy part is
(as many of us know) one remarkable for its delicacy
of finish and originality of detail. It has been our lot,
of late, to have had to sit out the performances of so
many very melancholy Danes (all of whom have fancied
themselves inspired) that we shall hail, with consider-
able satisfaction the re-appearance in the part, of an
aotor who (neither gives as a sermon nor an extrava-
ganza.
• * 9
Talking of the Gaiety, we may remark that we
have not alluded at length to the beautiful improve-
ments that have been made in the theatre, os wo purpose
era long to give them in detail, with illustrations of the
facade and the interior of the premises. Of this, how-
ever, more anon.
** * *
The Montague-Turner Company open on Monday
in “Faust,” at the Opera House, and will produce
“ Lucrezia Borgia” daring their season, which we trust
may be extended beyond the advertised week. On
leaving Sydney, the company, we believe, proceed to
India.
** * *
Mr. Frank Cates played Hamlet for his benefit
at Brisbane, on the 7th instant, being supporttd by Miss
Annie Mayor, who has now quite recovered from her ill-
ness, Frank left by the Yon Yangs, and
will arrive in Sydney on Friday (to-morrow) morning.
His benefit, as announced elsewhere, will take place on
Monday, at the Masonic.
** * *
The indefatigable Walter wants people for his
Hobart season. Here’s a chance for the ” perfesh” to
air their summer top.
** * *
Mr, Fred Mervin left for Melbourne on Tuesday
night, and his part has since been taken by Mr. Edwin
Kelly. We shall have a word to say about Mr. K.’s
Monthabor in our next issue. The company, we
understand, play for another fortnight.
** * *
Our own Georgina succeeds Mr. Walter Rey-
nolds at the Queen’s, on the 29 th. She opens in “Jo.”
A part which she has made her own.
** * *
We frequently have to laugh, in a good-
humoured way, at the vagaries of the gentlemen who
are deputed by our contemporaries to criticise theatrical
and musical performances; and it is but fair to own
that we owe a debt of gratitude to these writers for so
often enabling us to promote our digestion (sfter de-
vouring cutlets and their effusions) with a good, heirty
roar. The Herald has, in its notice of the Mendels-
sohn Quintette Club, afforded us much merriment; and
we are, of course, proportionately grateful. The Old
Girl, in the critique we have alluded to, was very en-
thusiastic about the performance of Mr, Schade, the
flautist, and treated Mr. S. to the large consignment of
railway-greose with which her fortunate favourites are
invariably beslobbered. We happened to be also present
on the evening of the performance, and we frankly said
that he had not a good command of tone. On our notice
appearing, the agent called round at our office, and
apologised for the short-comings of the performer,
explaining that since he landed here ho has been suffer-
ing from a temporary affection of the lip, almost
amounting to paralysis of the muscles. And, of late,
Mr. Sohade has not appeared at all, owing to his
present inability to acquit himself upon his instru-
ment in the brillliant style, which, under ordinary cir-
cumstances, he is capable of. This little circumstance
tends to prove how extremely valuable some of our
contemporaries’critiques must be—to sick, and to in-
artistic performers.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Michael Minton, the desperado who,escaped
from Braidwood Gaol, has been arrested at Hay An
Italian, named Corpiano, has struck 20oz. stone, nine
feet from grass, near Beaufort, Vic Good gold has
been struck in the Glanmire and Monkland claim,
Qympie A despatch clerk in the G.P.0., Melbourne,
has been arrested for stealing letters. Four were
found on him Cairns, Anderson, and Shorter have
“ struck it rich ’’ at Hanging Rock. They have already
got lOOoz. geld from a few dishes quartz While Mr.
Edmonds, postmaster at Temora, was riding after a
bullock, his horse fell over a rocky ridge into a creek,
crushing the ribs of the rider, who died a day or two
later The Victorian Government don’t seem well
disposed towards the Telephone Company, whom they
charge 300 per cent, per annum on first cost for the use
of the wires. The company asks the Government to
take ISO per cent., and they' will reduce the yearly rent
of the telephone, but the State refuses to budge
Mr. Fitzgerald has 50 white men and 90 kanakas
employed at his plantation on the Johnston River
North Queensland. A 2000-ton sngar mill has been
landed and will be ready for crushing in November
Mr Sergeant, the at one time temperance caterer at
the Melbourne Exhibition, has sent a leather medal to
each of the Commissioners, with whom, it will be re-
membered, he had some terrible rows The remains
of two human beings have been discovered between 25
and 30 miles from Wagga Wagga, in Mangoplah direc-
tion. One body was found in the bush, the other in a
deserted hut in bed. The latter is supposed to be that
of some swagsman who had camped there for the night;
the body found in the open air in the other place is, it
is surmised, that of a man, apparently insane, who was
seen wandering in the bush some 12 months ago, naked,
but whom the'police failed to find Some Melbourne
mining speculators are floating M’Donald’s claim at
Milburn Creek for £5(1,000 The driver of a Bathurst
bread-cart alleges that he was stack np on the Vale
Road, on Monday week, The police don’t attach great
importance to the affair In last report of the In-
spector of Stock, the kangaroos are numbered at
bies 3,317,000, rabbits 762,000, and native
dogs $;’QOO. How dfd the Inspector take this enrions
censfis ? .Beautiful white marble has been discovered
at Kyabra, in the South Gregory district, Queensland,
and also a substance supposed to be meerschaum A
board has been appointed to inquire into the claims of
Mrs. Ann Jones, owner of the Glenrowan hotel at its
destruction by Are on the capture of the Kelly gang
Last Mount Browne escort brought 847 oz gold
Mr. Dewhurst, of Wilcannia, has killed a calf, twenty
months old, which weighed, when dressed, 560 lb. It
was bred in the Saltbush country A new weekly
paper, the Chronicle, has been started at Parkes
The City Council will continue the wood blocks in the
streets of Melbourne, the .trial already' made being
quite satisfactory At Bourke, a magistrate named
Grant was tin-kettled on the occasion of his wedding....
At Temora, the Hidden Treasure shareholders divided,
after washing 300 loads, about £620 per man... Copper
has been found at Dungowan Creek, Tamworth. The
body of Mr. David England, of Maryborough, Queens-
land, who with two other men went out in a boat in
Wide Bay and disappeared, has been discovered Mr.
Costello, of Mackay, Queensland, ,'grows:.l6 acres of
coffee plants Sydney is not alone in the matter of
bad magazine arrangements. Five hundred cases of
dynamite, equal to 2500 lb, exclusive of powder, is
stored in the badly ventilated powder magazine, now
anchored in the Mary River, at Maryborough. It is
a steamer nearly ran into it the other day
At Melbourne, the signatures of the Governor and the
Registrar of Titles have been forged to a spurious
Crown grant, on which £BOO was raised The Cal-
cutta Tea Syndicate’s small paper, the Tea News, was
printed m Melbourne and posted in Sydney, where
there is no newspaper postage. By this means a large
sum was saved in postage There! are eight crush.
mg machines on the Hodgkinson, N.Q The tin lodes
N.Q., are said to be of immense size and
likeiy to yield enormous profits The new organ for
the Sydney University has arrived Judge Cohen has
sentenced to two years in Darlinghurst, a couple of
larrikins who maltreated a Chinaman... .!Hop-growing
dnuhbf* in a - Gi PP? la ? d (Vic.). Aroa\nder cStfva«on
kf 4 /ear The next Torres Straits
(Queensland) mail steamer brings 200 immigrants to
i Eo ?i k n^ mpton al i d Ot o er Northern ports for the Queens-
land Government Since the accident to the Brighton
lv' 10 4- express, in consequence of a worn wheel-tire,
the Victorian Government have received 12 designs for
new carnages. Selection not yet made Mining re-
viyal at Beechworth, Vic Strychnine has been
detected by analysis in the cake given by Mr. King,
manager for Wolcott, a squatter, to a selector named
Kenny, alter eating which Kenny’s son died : and also
m some bread and butter given by King to Kenny
Ino laughing jackass has been found to be useful ia
* B l * where a pair of birds imported from Sydney have
W e°s ed “ ar^. 4 ° P u 4 down the mimimata, a large insect
of the mantis species 228 tons from No. 1 North
Phoenix, Gympie, gave 1611 oz. A dividend of 4s. per
share has been declared. No. 1 North Glanmire de-
clared a shilling dividend Marshall Wood’s statue
ot the Queen has been unveiled at Adelaide The
Legislative Council has fixed eighteen pence per acre as
the invariable amount to be paid for ring-barking as an
improvement, when the land is selected England
and Switzerland have signed a treaty fer extradition of
criminals One ot the officials of the Bank of Vic-
toria is suspected of the theft of £2400 in notes, re-
cently perpetrated Boring with the diamond drills
in Victoria has cost 7s. 6d. to 12s. 6d. per foot Sugar
planters in Queensland petition the Legislature for
leave to introduce coolies from India The projected
meat-preserving company at Goulbum has been a fiasco.
Money returned The Northampton, new en voyage,
brings 361 immigrants—the first lot under the new
regulations. They pay half their passage-money
i .?- driver and conductor of one of the trams which
collided on the Raudwick line are to be dismissed
Near Kerang (Vic.), three women going with a dray
for a load of water, drove over the bank into twelve
feet of water and were all drowned The S.A. Go-
vernment are about to introduce a Civil Service Act
abolishing retiring allowances after the end of this year...
At the inquest on the fire at E. W. Bailey’s store at
Bathurst, the jury pronounced that the stores were
wilfully set on fire, and that the evidence of Bailev was
very unsatisfactory and unreliable Nearly 40C0 en-
tries for the Bathurst Juvenile Industrial Exhibition.
There are four cases of small-pox at Pyrmont,
besides a convalescent who luckily thought he only had
a cold and never called in a doctor In the Legislative
Council, on Friday, the Hon. J. B. Watt said that a few
months ago not only did 4000 Chinese arrive in a few
weeks, but arrangements had been made in Hongkong
to send 20,000 more A Sydney batcher, John Martin,
of Kent-street, has been fined £2O, or three months, for
selling stinking maggotty meat We have received a
copy of the first number of the Wild River Inde-
pendent, published at Herberton, N.Q Mr. Wiskor
plaj s chess blindfold on Friday against six of the best
Melbourne players Discovery of tin reported in the
Northern Territory of S.A.
The Great Eastern is to bo anchored at Lloyd’s
on 19th inst. .....Madame Blanc, the proprietress of the
Monaco gambling hell, died in Savoy recently, worth
£4,000,000. The same week, a won. an and her son, who
had been ruined at the gaming tables, committed sui-
cide in their lodgings at Monaco.
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, October 12,1881.
At the Darling Harbour Railway terminus there
was only a small of' forage from the various
intermediate country stations, along the Western and
Southern lines. Oaten hay, in bales, sold from 4s lid
to 5s 3d; in truss, 4s 2d to 4s 6d, and in bundles, 4s 9d
to 5s 9d ; lucerne! hay, in bole, 3s ; no truss ; lucerne,
forwarded steamer, good clean lots in bale, 2s 9d to 3s ;
in bundles, 3s to 3s 3d per cwt. Oaten chaff, in bale,
4s Id to ss; cut straw, 2s lid to 3s per cwt. Wheaten
and oaten hay, in bale, 4s lid (new). Wheaten hay, in
sheaves, mixed with new lucerne, in trass, 3s 2d to
3s 4d per cwt. Potatoes, 2s 7d to 3s 8d per cwt. Swede
turnips, 2s 2d per cwt., bags inclusive.
On the wharves, prime old lucerne is selling at £2 10s
to £3 ; medium samples, £2 to £2 5s per ton. Inferior
new hay plentiful and dull of sale at from £llos to
£2. No prime green hay arriving at market. Maize,
2s lOd to 3s. Oats, (seed and feed), 2s 9d to 3s per
bushel. Circular Head potatoes, £3 15 3to £4; New
Zealand do. £2 to £2 10s per ton. Victorian onions,
£l9 to £2O. Victorian chaff, £5 per ton, bags included.
Butter, in keg, lOd to Is per lb. Eggs, 8d to 9d per
dozen. Bacon, 4d to 6d. Ham, 6d to Bd. Cheese, 6d
to 81. Honey, 4d to 4i*d. Lard, 4d to sd. Beeswax,
9d to lOd per lb. Millet brooms, 9s to 10s per dozen.
Poultry. —Fowls are selling at from 3s 6i to 4s.
Ducks, 4s 6d to ss. Geese, 7s to Bs. Turkeys, from
8s to 16s. Pigeons, Is 6d to 2s 6d. Rabbits, 2s to
2s 6d per pair.


£1 LIFFORD, LO V
TEA IMPORTE
EASTERN AND COM:
MERCHANTS
Receive regular consignment!
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualitie
Do. Indian Prize Medi
CHUTNIES—Indian Priz
PRESERVES —Indian Pr
COFJTEE —Plantation No
Do. „ Pea
Do. „ Nos
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pe
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Bh
OFFICES:—79 YORK
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, B
JOHN D
IMPORTER 01
Plumbers' and Engineers* Brassw
Qasfittings, Globes, Electric
Butchers’ Brine P
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, S
119 LIVERPOOL STREET
L
B
B
B
A
T
E
D
s
16l
H. L. SUMMER
ECONOMY IN CLOI
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUR GOODS PRO]
DIRECT IMPORT
THE PEOPLE'S 1
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SBLF-MEA
sent to any part of the
09* The particular attention c
dents is requested to tb
Any style of Garment made 1
SUMMEBFTELI
GUIDE TO SELF-MEAS
Q4K DITT CT
MARTIN&Pj
MARTIN & PAIN, HORNSBY
389 QKORQE STREET, SYDNEY- fe - ■
Are una
S$
HORXs^y
Steel S TRIPPER
We sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year,
and every purchaser has sent us as good a testimonial at
it is possible to write.
COPIES OF THESE TESTIMONIALS POSTED TO EVERY ENQUIRER.
(K- FARMERS see the HORNSBY
BEFORE! ORDERING ANT OTHER.
SI
They are the
They are the
They are tht
They are tht
They are MA
They do the
WE CALL
THEM
THE DRIV
THE PINK
THE DRUI
THE DRU
THE RING
We Guara:
FARMER
No oilier F
SEND E
Sole BA
Agents
389 GEO
, ' lA A'/ ri
TURING JiWf
$ 9. gc II. HUN 1 E R ‘ST
SYDNEY.
S! L V E . -WA";' O!! E S
f F: C (V J* - 4 .1 0 -
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
nnHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REi
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORfr BATH in Sy<
nnrntr inn ttot ntrnnv TXTA’V Cif\TU~HT.Tf.rPT?. * 1
MOST PLEA
S
A
F
E
S
T
A
N
D
WANTED TO B
that the best cleans
TANT and Deodoriser for t
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS Dll
can be found by i
PANTER AND PARRY'S 1
OF SOAP,
which not only contains tl
dicnta fgr the greatest cleo
eyer yet introduced to th
composed in its manufactm
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in al
throughout the globe. Coml
it is free from all injurio
pleasing smell, will not inju
cate hands, is the greates
labour, rendering any articl
with of the purest whiter
marvellous short space of th
NO HOUSE SHOUBD BE
as it cannot be surpassed
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crock
Paint, Floor
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which
EACH PACKET, which i
from all Grscers and Store
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORG!
STD N E
IN THE WO
Dispense Prescriptions chea
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at loss than English pi
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Bpon
ALL KINDS ON DRUGGISTS*
Send for a Price List. Conntr;
ally attended to. Don’t forget
Ton cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New I
W. K ER
M A N-tT'FA C/T-dJ Sfrft?
WATCH AND GLOCI
664 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medalslof every description, Mas
sentation Trowels designed i
Premises.
DIAMOND, SET;
A new and Choice Assortment-
• Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, frou
INC STREET S
n it ab
ZISL
PEAPES & SHAW
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. .
EDISON-BELL TEL
THESE INSTRUMENTS, combining Edison’s most recent unproven
perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of wo
liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
THE EDISON-BELL TEL
Has been adopted for the Melbourne, Brisbane Telephone. I
bouses throughout the Colonies.
