

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7.—No. 80.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 1881.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 6, 1881.
God Save the Queen.
Queen Victoria needs a statue no more than
Marcus Antoninus. The memory of her reign
and of her personal qualities as a monarch will
live when images of bronze upreared by this
generation shall be shattered and forgotten. In
our own times Victoria has been the chief bulwark
in Europe of the monarchical form of Government.
To her own qualities, ripened and expanded
possibly by the counsel of her sagacious husband,
must be attributed principally the circumstance
that while a wave of democratic ideas has swept
over the continent of Europe, overturning thrones
and sweeping away dynasties and traditions in its
course, Great Britain has scarcely moved to the
influence of the tide. No radical thinker at the
present day regards monarchy as destined to be
perpetually maintained as the prevailing form of
Government. Large divisions of mankind are
obviously emerging from political infancy, and the
days of tutelage approach, for these, their termi-
nation. But, while democratic conceptions have
undoubtedly made prodigious progress even in
Great Britain, there has in that country been no
attempt, such as has been made in several con-
tinental nations, to hurry into actual practice
those theories which have so great an attraction,
first for the abstract philosopher, and secondly
for the labouring masses. The number of senti-
mental republicans in our mother country has been,
beyond doubt, largely augmented during the last
twenty years. And there is ample evidence that
there are not lacking hot enthusiasts and uneasy
malcontents who would rejoice to see the work of
revolution commenced forthwith. It is not too
much to say that it has been the happy method in
which Queen Victoria has exemplified the
merits and advantages of a limited monarchy,
which has secured to Great Britain, amidst the
universal agitation, a calm contentment, minister-
ing to the substantial well-being of her population.
The profonndest thinkers have, while generally
viewing a republic as the ultimate perfectioning
of human political arrangements, admitted that,
theoretically, the rule of a benevolent despot
would be of equal advantage. Human nature,
while it prompts mankind to strive upward to-
wards the achievement of an equality only
qualified by individual merit and ability, yet
retains, while thus directing its efforts, a con-
sciousness of its own insufficiently developed
condition. The majority of people in the present
day yet feel that the childhood of the world is barely
over, and that they are scarce capable of shaping
their own course and controlling their own fortunes.
The day of absolute domination has, indeed, passed
away, except among savage tribes. But the
average Caucasian needs, and feels, when not ex-
cited by wrongs, inflamed by passion, or rendered
pedantic by too much closet-thinking, that there
is needed a ruling power of higher capacity and
more elevated morals than could be obtained by
striking an average among themselves. _ The
defect of modern popular representation is felt,
though only dimly perceived by many, to be that
it is no better in tone, no higher in aim, than is the
ruck from which it derives its influence, and which
it claims, with perfect accuracy, to represent.
This is to be noted by the most unobservent. The
skeleton of the ideal republic exists in the United
States. In the Australian colonies it is very
closely approached. The people are, here and in
America, far more accurately represented in the
Governing Chambers than it can be pretended
that they are in England. And mark the differ-
ence. In America and in the colonies the taint of
corruption poisons the political atmosphere.
Public men receive more genuine and direct
support than they do in England, but they do not
enjoy a correspondingly enlarged amount of con-
fidence. A public man in Great Britain may be
hated by whole sections of the people, but it has
seldom happened that one has been _ despised.
Now, in the colonies and in America, it is by no
means unusual for public men to be at the same
time despised and steadily supported. _ The Re-
public of the philosophers is a republic of ideal
men, self-denying, public-spirited, quick to feel and
act upon the impulses of a pure and abstract
patriotism. The world may yet —we believe
it yet will—be peopled by such men. At present
they constitute an infinitismal minority. Every
day, while the stores of knowledge receive addi-
tions, and the habit of reasoning becomes more
widely diffused, brings mankind nearer to the
desired standard. Unfortunately, the perceptive
faculties develop more rapidly than the reflective.
Feeling increases in activitity as refinement
grows. Men feel the smart of grievances before
they are capable of comprehending the appro-
priate remedy, and the effects of their purblind
resentments often only serve to increase their
calamities —as a beast of the field might tear its
jaws riving at the spiked bars of the trap in which
it is caught. The Imild and beneficent reign of
Victoria has prevented Britons from feeling
that sense of injury which the operations of a
despotism, or the abuses of a caste system, is apt
to raise up. As of old time, the habitations of
the many were grouped around the fortified keep
of the feudal lord, so the commonalty have, till of
late, instinctively ranged themselves below and
around a superior few, more highly endowed with
political strength, either by inheritance or fortune.
But as, of late years, the residences of the people
have relinquished the protecting neighbourhood of
the castle, so has a disposition grown to assert a
capacity for self-government. For this, in its
extreme development, every example—in France,
in America, in Russia —warns the world that
it is not yet ripe. More than rash dema-
gogues, bad rulers, have precipitated change.
Victoria has deferred it. For how long, it would
be difficult to say; but it seems not too much to
expect that the influence of her reign will endure
long after she shall have ceased to live, and that
generations yet unborn may look back to her with
the grateful knowledge that to her sterling sense and
womanly foresight is owed the circumstance that
political changes in Great Britain were postponed
till a fitter period, and accomplished with a
slighter disturbance, than in any other country in
the civilised world.
His Serene Highness Prince Louis of
Battenberg.
If the quaint Francis Quarles, the author of the
“ Divine Emblems and Hieroglyphicks,” had
flourished now-a-days, instead of more than two-
and-a-half centuries ago, he would have been
somewhat puzzled to invent symbolic allegories
which should signify the process of fusion that is
pervading society in all civilized nations. Sturdy
royalist though he was, and perhaps not unpre-
pared to accept as a dictum “ the right divine of
kings ” to govern how they pleased, the philo-
sophic tendencies of his mind would lead him to
exult in the homogeneous blending of divers ranks
into a harmonious whole. This active spirit of
change has, in a special manner, manifested itself
during the Victorian Era, more particularly in the
last decade of that period. It does not surprise
the reading world to learn that several men —the
“ sons of poor, but honest parents ” —have passed
from a lower to a higher social grade, or that in-
dividuals of the strong-brained middle-class should
work their way into the ranks of the nobility, or
that a member of the latter should form an alli-
ance with royalty; but what does dazzle some—
not disagreeably, it must be admitted—is to find a
fair representation of the “ gilded orders ”
bursting the trammels of hereditary tradition,
and descending (if descent, and not real
moral and intellectual elevation, it be)
to take a responsible part in the great
battle of life, as if they had not been born
to the purple, and stand side by side, in true,
earnest work, with men of worth, without arbi-
trary distinction. When we learned, some years
ago, that the heir of the Napoleons (who had
acquired the best part of his military education in
an English school) volunteered to go to the Cape
on active service, we might have deemed the reso-
lution the outcome of that double strain of courage
and fatalism which seemed to animate the chiefs
of his race. While deploring his untimely fate,
we must admire his pluck, and accept the example
of self-devotion it sets to the youthful chivalric
spirit of the world as good of its kind. Am in-
stance of a very different sort is furnished by the
ducal house of Argyle, one of whose sons has
taken to commercial pursuits as a vocation, and
there are other noble “ Campbells a’ coming ” to
join the industrial Banks. Peter the Great’s ship-
building experiences do not stand alone in the
history of royal enterpise; and the example set by
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales (dilated on in these
columns some few weeks ago), in sending his sons
to sea, to fit them for their great life-work, must
satisfy all who can understand the motive under-
lying it, that the course adopted is in the very
spirit of the age—is a sign of its widening horizon
of moral responsibilities—a proof that a race of
human drones, nati cousumere fruges, will not live
much longer at the expense of the industrious.
“ Drunk as a lord ” has ceased to be a pro-
verb ; and “ idle as a prince ” is now a phrase
without meaning. Amongst the many distinguished
individuals this fine reactionary movement has
attracted to the British service is the subject of
this brief notice. There can be only a few striking
biographic lines, like the bright bars of the spec-
troscope, in a career only already begun. Still
these few indicate a brilliant future. Prince
Louis of Battenberg, eldest son of Prince Alex-
ander, of Hesse, was born at Graz (Styria), on
the 24th May (Queen Victoria’s birthday) in the
year 1854, and spent his early days in or near
“ the mountain fortress of Niemezki,” and within
view of the rugged grandeur of Upper Styria and
Carinthia. Having manifested from an early age
a great love of scientific pursuits, he had ample
opportunities of indulging them in one of the best
schools of Germany. The sphere of intellectual
activity thus afforded was not all he desired —he
longed for experience. The desire was soon
gratified, as he entered the British navy on the 3rd
October, 1868, in the fifteenth year of his age.
He served on board the Ariadne (special service),
Captain C F. Campbell, till June, 1869, when he
was transferred to the Royal Alfred (Admirals
Wellesley and Fanshawe, on the North American
and West Indian station). He utilised the
opportunities for naval culture this scene of
service afforded, and became sub-lieuten-
ant on 3rd April, 1874. Pursuing his
studies, practical and speculative, for nearly
a year longer, he was appointed _to
the Serapls —special service for the Prince
of Wales’ voyage to India—Captain the
Hon. H. Glyn; and was promoted to Lieutenant in
May of the yerr following. His next “ spell
of service” was on board the Sultan, in the
Mediterranean, Captain H.R.H. the Duke of
Edinburgh, till May 1878, when he joined the
Agincourt, Admirals Commerell and Boys, on the
same station, and remained there till promoted to
the Royal Yacht in April, 1879, Commanders
Pearson and Lord C. Beresford. He had subse-
quently three months’ valuable on
board the torpedo ship Vernon, and in fine joined
thellneonstant, now in Port Jackson, the flagship
of the Detached Squadron, in August, 1880. To
these particulars it may be well to add that Prince
Louis’ brother (Alexander, born sth April, 1857,)
was elected Prince Regnant of Bulgaria in April,
1879. Those who have met Prince Louis in
society vouch for his refined courtesy, high intel-
lectual qualities, and unaffected manners.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Teachers’ Grievances.
So far as we have been able to discover, the Public
School teachers have little te congratulate themselves
upon in regard to the recent departmental changes in
their branch of the service. They were led to believe
that the new regime was to bring with it a bright dawn
of better things—that the Ministerial system would
clear away many of the disabilities, fancied or other,
wise, to which they considered themselves subject as
the serfs of Mr. Wilkins and the Council. They have
been disappointed to some extent, as all must allow ;
but even those who had least patience with their bill
of imaginary grievances were neither prepared nor dis-
hear that they had suffered pecuniarly by the
change. All have a certain respect for the teachers’
office, and a regard for the qualities and special gifts
which go to make up the character of a thoroughly
efficient teacher. He must be a man of application and
patience, as well as of tact and determination; he must
be educated in proportion to his charge; his moral
character must be good, and his principles sound. All
these qualifications are necessary tojflt a mau to engage
in the work of education with any chance of success.
To these must be superadded a careful preparation and
training; and from all this, it will be obvious that an
efficient instructor of youth is not fitted for his office
with the same readiness with which a venerable Vice-
President of the Executive may be suddenly trans-
formed into a brisk and intelligent Minister for
Education. That being so, t seems proper and
desirable that the objects of all this care and responsi-
bility should be treated with some little consideration
for that tenderest part of our common humanity the
HIS SERENE HIGHNESS PRINCE LOUIS OF BATTENBERG.


pocket. And this is the practical part of the business.
It certainly does not seem fair to deprive teachers of
their fees, saddle them with the trouble of their collec-
tion and transmission, and then delay the promised re-
imbursement in the shape of proportionately increased
salaries for an indeflnate and extremely misty period*
Thisliis the teachers’! grievance, and in our.opinion it
certainly does require looking to.
A Righteous Judgment.
Vox populi vox Dei ” is an aphorism very flattering to
the populace, but by no means complimentary to Go*.
Those who know history, know that vox populi has too
often roared in a Devil’s chorus, and with a wild
beast’s rage—has been coaxed out by flattery, wheedled
out by deceit, and lashed out by torture; and seldom
indeed thundered forth ia open approval, or condemna-
tion unquestionably just. The voice of the people is
easily evoked, as the people are easily led ; and thus we
are not accustomed, without some further investigation,
to regard the popular verdict as the proper ending of
dispute. But, in a case recently tried in a neighbouring
colony—to wit, that of David Gaunsow, in the elec-
torate of Ararat —we are inclined to accept the people’s
verdict as properly honest and just. David was a poli-
tician of a common type. Perhaps it was his misfortune
that he had not the faculty to distinguish notoriety
from fame, and by virtue of this acknowledgement,
many of his more trumpet-tongued sins may be freely
forgiven. But the turn-coat trickery, of which his
career affords so many examples, cannot, by the most
charitably-disposed, be lightly passed by. Three times
he has ratted from !his party in a manner to merit all
the implied^opprobrium of the term ; and at length|he
returns to his constituents, to find them sickened with
disgust. He was Minister for Lands in the new Admin-
istration. That is a thick coating of sugar |for the
nauseous pill; but they cannot swallow it, and David is
returned with some ignominy into—private life.
David’s friends tell us that he displayed many virtues
in that humble capacity .before he became corrupted by
politics. Let us hope he may resume them. His
story is not devoid ef instruction. We may use him
bye and bye as a striking example ; in any case he will
give evidence to the world without that there is a
degree of political treachery which men of Australia
will decline to endorse.
The Great House and the Small.
Almost every city of Australia has within its bounds a
hill, and set upon that hill half-a-dozen churches (more
or less). Most cities have also somewhere about their
lower levels an Institute or School of Art, generally to
be observed by reason of | its bald, comfortless, and
poverty-stricken appearance, as is the church by its
prominence and glacial respectability. The Church, in !
fact, is the “ great house,” the Art School the “ small.” j
The Great House is opened one day in seven, and for
a space of about four hours. Daring all the remaining
hours of the week preaching and teaching is left to the
outer walls. The Little House opens its humble door
upon every day in the week save one, the day of which
the Great House claims a sixth part to itself. By
means of the Little House, men enter into communion
with all those high and noble things lying between
manual labour and social joy and the one act of ado*
ration for whose performance the Great House was
specially prepared. Indeed, it is capable of work the
Great House very rarely accomplishes. Take a quaint
illustration. An old squatting man of Australia said
once, “ I have known blacks who could say the Ten
Commandments and knew more about Peter and Paul
than I do, and they were not a bit the whiter for it;
but if I could once get one of them to camp in the
men’s hut, he got workable." The men’s hut was the
School of Art to the blackfellow —he was enabled there
to grasp the truth that life held something superior to
’possum and nardoo, and that certain sustained effort
was necessary to attain that something. We ourselves
know several men in several cities who have .heard a
good deal about the ten commandments and popular
theology generally, but really are not much the whiter
of it, whereas could they be brought within the possible
influence of a possible School of Arts, beer and skittles
would certainly lose their zest, as a broader horizon
would stimulate higher aims and purer desires. But,
then, would the Sunday sermon seem so completely
exhaustive? Would the black coat and the white
throat-band shield so effectively dull brains and cold
hearts ? Would the travail of his pilgrimage sit as
lightly upon the preacher ? Ah ! there is much to be
considered, and many cogent reasons to be weighed,
before we understand why the Great House sits for ever
upon the hill, yielding sermons from its stones, though
the pulpit be empty within, while the Little House is
consigned to the level of common things, or to things
bearing the brand of combustible, and dangerous to be
used.
A Good Appointment.
The Government merits cordial commendation for its
recent appointment of Mr. Powell as Collector of
Customs. This function of the Ministry—that of mak-
ing public appointments—is one of the most important
with which it is invested. Civil Servants are charged
with the practical working of the country’s business,
and the care of providing suitable men is no slight
responsibility. We, in New South Wales, are by no
means unfamiliar with the disastrous results accruing
from the mistakes which are liable to be made in this
direction. Prejudices of party, and considerations of
politics lexpedience, are too often permitted to influence
the action of the Executive in these matters ; and it is
no new thing to And that personal fitness and the public
interest have been utterly ignored when the names of
the appointees to posts of responsibility and
trust are published. In this instance, however,
we have certainly ;a rare appointment. Mr. Powell
has been gazetted on his merits, and the
Ministry are entitled to congratulation as much upon
the excellence of their choice, as on account of their
superiority, iin this instance at least, to the many un-
worthy considerations which too often ignobly influence
appointments such as these. The gentleman chosen
has exceptional qualifications for the position. His
great experience as a Customs’ Agent has eminently
fitted him for the particular duties of his new office,while
all who are acquainted his personal qualities will readily
recognise his fitness to guide and guard the growing
commercial interests of the colony.
Precocious Murderers.
Is our civilization a failure ? (The instances of social
barbarism which the pages of every newspaper bring
under the eye, would seem to supply anything but a
re-assuring response to the enquiry. Only the other
day we referred in these columns to a case in which one
little boy, with |a ruthlessness beyond his years, mur-
dered his younger playmate, in cold blood, “like a
sheep.” Later still, we read in a colonial journal of a
charge of callous heartlessness against a servant girl,
who, it is alleged, having accidentally allowed a child in
her care to fall into the water, drowned her helpless
charge, in order that her own negligence might not be
discovered. And now, as if to show that this species
of juvenile atrocity is not confined to ourselves, we find
American files a similar account of a travestie on the
harmless innocence of childhood. The details are
graphic enough. The murderer was only nine years
old; the victim was seven. Attracted by the report of
a gun, after school, a boy encountered the former
digging a grave with a spade in a manure-heap. By his
side lay the body of the victim, still breathing, with
a track of blood leading from the door to the
spot. Accidentally shot in the first instance, the
work was deliberately completed by the fracture of
the sufferer’s skull with the spade. The murderer then
attempted to hide his crime, and was discovered in the
act. It would seem as though a veritable wave of child-
murder were sweeping through the world. There
must be some grievous blank in onr social system,
which it is urgently desirable to fill. A gentle, human-
ising agency is wanting somewhere, to reach and in-
fluence those unchecked tendencies to evil which
fructify with such hideous outgrowth. It must, at
least, be plain that something should at once, if pos-
sible, be done to m Jdify the crude and brutal abortion
of civilization which social life, judging by these indi-
cations, threatens eventually to become.
POLITICAL POINTS.
J. Malbon Thompson has resigned his seat for
Ipswich, Q.
Spain is squinting hard at Morocco, to which
she thinks she has as good a right as France has to
Tunis.
The no-confidence motion of Mr. Ormond, in the
N.Z. House of Representatives, has been negatived by a
majority of four.
The Ringbarking Regulations Bill was thrown
out on Thursday night, owing to a bungle in the manner
of introducing it.
At the opening of the Western Australian Par-
liament, on 26th ult., it was stated that the deficiency
had been reduced to £60,000.
Parramatta will soon have its tramway—the
Bill, empowering Mr. Jeanneret to construct a line,
having been agreed to by both Houses.
Mr. Pilcher, who ought to know, says that
practice in the District Court is the best training for
the man who wishes to make his mark at the bar..
What has become of Mr. Kidd? Is not the
fact that he has been silent during the last fortnight a
complete acknowledgment on his part, that he has .been
sat upon ?
The Hobart Mercury is on the war-path.
Certain hon. members of both houses of the Tasmanian
Parliament are seen to be hiding their talents with
unseemly haste.
“ Handsome Fred.” in the Queensland Assembly,
has had £240 for legal work done for the colony. He
supports the Ministry, and the. Opposition say that the
Ministry supports him.
Sir George Grey’s Affirmation in lieu of Oaths
Extension Bill was thrown out in the N. Z. Legislative
Council, on the motion of Dr. Pollen, by 14 votes to 12.
It was too liberal for their views.
Sir Bryan O’Loghlen’s Ministry has a majority
of about five in the Victorian Assembly. This includes
the Conservative members, however. In reality. Sir
Bryan cannot command any majority.
Mr. J. P. Abbott talks about a practice which
existed 200 or 300 years ago—in the time of Edward I.
And yet this modem Longshanks wishes to be elevated
to the position of barrister without examination.
The Nihilist Executive proclaim that they deem
it quite unnecessary at present to repeat their destruc-
tive enterprises, as the measures of the new Ministry
are fast driving the country into revolution.
A visitor to the Legislative Assembly in Hobart
would be considerably astonished at the porcine sounds
generally heard in that augnst assemblage of the wise.
What can they mean, and whence do they proceed F
David Gaunson, defeated for Ararat, has an-
nounced his intention of retiring from political life.
He will probably join Sir Henry Parkes (who made the
same announcement not long ago) in the knight’s private
retirement.
Mr. Copeland denounces as “ political cowards ”
all those who support the Chinese Restriction Bill. As
everyone knows he is not interested in those tin mines
at which Chinese are employed in such large numbers,
therefore, he speaks disinterestedly,
Mr. Macdermott has given notice in the New
Zealand House of Representatives to move for the
appointment of a committee to consider the best means
for establishing direct steam communication between
New Zealand and the Home country.
Messrs. Bodel and H. H. Cooke, the members
for Forbes, are inseparable. They walk together, talk
together, and vote together. The former gentleman, it
is rumoured, found the bullion for the election. If so,
we wonder what “ Henry Harrie ” found.
Mr. Giblin, last Monday, made his Financial
Statement, in (the Tasmanian House of Assembly. He
congratulated Tasmanians on the very exceptional
prosperity of the colony, and wound up one of his most
telling speeches with an effective peroration.
The Speaker of the Q. Assembly announces he
will pull up members using offensive language. This is
just as well. It would, perhaps, be a good plan to
arrange for reciprocity between all colonial Houses of
Assembly and the Reformatories of the capitals in which
they are.
At half-an-hour past midnight, on Thursday
morning last, a notice of amendment in the
Chinese Bill, given by Mr. Buchanan, was called
on. The only response was a chorus of voices : “ He is
having his tea.” This is the standard joke in the
Assembly.
There are very evident signs of a well-organised
Opposition coming to the front shortly in the Par-
liament of Tasmania. Messrs. Braddon and Bromby
have got the right sow by the ear when attacking the
Ministers’ railway policy. The Hon. T. Chapman, in
the Legislative Council, is certainly " boss.’’
While Sir George Innes was speaking in the
Conncil, on Thursday, Mr. Piddington kept interjecting
"heahl heah!” till the Fiji knight remarked that
Piddingtons are not the ouly animals which express
their feelings by heah 1 heahl Piddington looked as if
somebody had shoved a thistle against his nose.
Prince (Bismarck, in May last, acknowledging
a compliment by telegram on the anniversary of the
signing of the treaty of peace between Prance and Ger-
many, at Frankfort on the Main, in 1871, telegraphed as
follows: —“ I am happy to say that there is a prospect
of a further undisturbed continuance of peace.” This
is exceedingly ominous.
The political agitation in Bulgaria, which has re-
sulted in the Prince assuming semi-despotic power, is
reported to be due to the fact that the present Russian
government has recognized the disastrous mistake of
the late Czar in allowing a constitution to Bulgaria
which he refused to his own subjects. The Prince of
Bulgaria has accordingly been worked upon when in St.
Petersburg.
This is how the Hobart Mercury reports the
speech of a gentleman, a member of the Tasmanian
H.A., and not unknown in Sydney, hut (we here stop to
take breath before enunciating the following awful
position occupied by the unfortunate gentleman) he is
a political opponent of the Meecubt, and does his
honest best to expose the blatant nonsense of “The
Monopolist“ Mr. Audley Coote: They do not pay
dividends, sir, but ray hon. friend refers to Mount
Bischoff, and New dunes, and West Bisohoff, which
are paying dividends, and—er-r-r-r —they pay a dividend
tax." How long will Southern Tasmania put up with
such—well —bosh P
Those green goggles did not convince members
of the Assembly that the Chairman of Committees had
extremely hard work, and that there was only one
means of compensation—that was an appointment
extending beyond the session. At any rate, Mr. Terry
feared that it would not be agreed to; therefore he
withdrew his motion to secure Mr. Cameron his £5OO
for the next two years.
Mr. Jacob has earned for himself the uncom-
promising hatred ef the free selectors’ representatives,
because of his having raised a technical objection which
proved fatal to the Ringbarking Bill. Mr. Jacob is dis-
tinguished for his smartness in detecting technical
irregularities. His energy, in respect of details, knows
no limit ; but we cannot help thinking that, as a rule, it
is so much energy wasted.
Nobody is more surprised than Mr. Parnell,
M.L.A., at the statesments in Tom Slattery’s letter to
a Burrowa friend, that Parnell has been converted to
the Abolition of Interest racket. But what stuns Par-
nell is the comment in the Evening Alp., that
‘ Those who have watched Mr. Parnell’s long and not
•nconsistent iParliamentary career willl doubtless be
surprised at his very significant change of front, while
they will probably not be so much astonished at this
latest exhibition of weakness on the part of the mem.
her for St. Leonards.” He wants to know what the
place of punishment (new version) it all means.
SOCIAL.
[Those who send us social items should give their names
and addresses, which will under no circumstances
whatever be disclosed. Our Social column is intended
to be a record, in perfectly good faith, of the leading
social events of the day.]
4.
A French literary club has been formed in Auck-
land. N.Z.
* • *
Lawn tennis is all the rage at Toowoomba, Q.,
among the upper five. (It won’t run to ten in “ The
Swamp.”) At these fashionable sports the paucity of
young ladies is deplored. Matrons and old maids pre-
vail. Consequently, no matches have yet been made—
we mean played.
w * *
At a ball, the other evening, a certain well-known
merchant buzzed round the quadrille in which the
Princes danced till he forced himself into the set. He
narrowly escaped a snubbing similar to that which he
got when Sir Hercules Eobinson first arrived in this
colony.
« # *
A complimentary ball was given on the night of
the 27th ultimo, at Lithgow, in honour of Mr. Lonergan
and family. A sarcastic correspondent says that the
ladies were nice, and vacillates between a “ Madonna
face in green tarlatan,” a "lady in white,” and a
"beauty in pink,” for first place. “The M.C. was
6 ft. 4 in. in his stockings.” Well, in the first circles,
we believe it is unusual for M’s.C. to make their appear-
ance in their stackings. However, the people of Lith-
gow seem to have an eye to the proprieties. Our cor-
respondent states that the bachelors have framed a
new by-law to the effect that “ Ungarien nailed Bluoher
boots are forthwith strictly prohibited at all future
balls.” This is very interesting, and evidently truthful.
* * •
The Benedicts’ Ball at Blackall (Q.) seems to
have been a very enjoyable affair. The belle, in the
gentlemen’s opinion, was “a lady dressed in a very
becoming pink."
« • •
The Mayor of Cooma was not invited to the
Bachelors’ Ball, and some of the Aldermen were.
Much heart-burning in consequence,—and, according to
the local rag, "business people at Cooma feel hurt at
the exclusiveness and pitiable pretensions of the self-
elected ‘ blue-bloods ’ of the district." It is evident
the editor was not " there.”
• ♦ •
Mr. and Mrs. Montague Levey celebrated their
“silver wedding,” on Saturday evening, by a brilliant
entertainment to some 150 guests. The proceedings
began with Byron’s comedy-farce, "War to the Knife,”
in which the greater number of the characters were
undertaken by members of the family. The representa-
tives of Mrs. Harcourt and Mrs. Delacour were most
successful in the ladies* division ; while, of the gentle-
men, the Mr. Nubbly of the evening distanced all his
companions, acting with a spirit which greatly en-
couraged the others, and with a general aptness which
is unusual with amateurs. The stage, at one end of the
large drawing-room, was very effectively arranged—the
scenery was good—and the costumes were all becoming
and appropriate. The applause with which the per-
formance was received was well earned by the little
company, A ball followed the comedy, and dancing
was kept up with unflagging energy. The day of the
week reluctantly compelled the early departure of some
of the guests, including several officers of the Detached
Squadron, whose brilliant uniforms had been as
effective amongst the many elegant toilettes of the
ladies as were their genial manners and evident
enjoyment attractive to their fair partners. The
special occasion of the entertainment was kuown only
to a few intimate or family friends, who expressed their
good wishes by beautiful gifts of flowers, artistic vases,
and useful articles chastely engraved in silver.
• • •
The Mayoress of Sydney (Mrs. John Harris)
held a reception at the Town Hall on Friday, July 29th.
There was a great gathering of the ladies of our fair
city, and a goodly sprinkling of gentlemen, though, as
usual on such occasions, they were considerably in the
minority. Many distinguished visitors at present in
Sydney were amongst the guests. The reception was
most numerously attended—more so than on any pre-
vious occasion, owing, no doubt, to the recent ball given
by the Mayor and Mayoress. There was some excellent
music during the afternoon, which was much enjoyed by
those present—a concert having been arranged under
the able 'direction of Mr. Montague Younger. Miss
Lambert contributed two contralto songs. Her render-
ing of “O Fair Dove,” being much admired. Miss
Denzil (a young lady we do not recollect having heard
before), Mr. Younger, Mr. Fisher, Mr. Baker, and Mr.
Hodge added considerably to the afternoon’s enjoyment.
There was a constant stream of visitors from the
commencement to the close.
* * *
The naval officer mentioned a week or two since
as being engaged to a Melbourne lady is titled, and is
captain of one of the ships now in harbour. His
fiancie is the daughter of a well-known stock agent and
sister of a distinguished young medico.
* • *
’"Sir Arthur and Lady Gordon gave a ball at
Wellington, and some 400 people attended. All those
were asked who had left their names at Government
House. The funny part of the proceeding was found in
the fact that there was no one present to receive the
Eests. They were therefore half an hour waiting, not
owing what to do with themselves, until the door
was thrown open and his Excellency ond Lady Gordon
were announced in vice-regal fashion, all the guests
rising to receive them. This is a new thing in our
gubernatorial balls. It was said by some of the mem-
bers that the Wellington scavenger could have gone to
the ball had he arrayed himself in dress clothes and kid
gloves.
« « «
On Thursday evening, the 21st ult. , about one
hundred guests assembled at a ball in the School of
Arts, Kempsey, at the invitation of the Macleay
Masonic Lodge, S.C. The hall was very tastefully
decorated with evergreens, bunting and Masonic em-
blems. Dancing commenced at 10 p.m., and was kept
mp with great spirit till “ daylight did appear." The
programme of dances was hardly suited to the tastes of
the nineteenth century, but during the evening was
slightly altered to meet more modern ideas. The
dresses of the ladies showed great taste and style, that
of Mrs. P. S. S. being particularly admired. Miss E. S.
D. was unanimously voted “ belle.” The supper was
served in excellent style by a local caterer, and the
music was good. The utmost good feeling prevailed
and all helped to make the ball one of the most en-
joyable held in Eempsey.
* * *
At Maytown (Q.) balls it is no longer considered
«n rSgle to smoke a clay pipe while dancing.
* ♦ ♦
The Liverpool ball, held in the Assembly Rooms
last Thursday evening, was a marked success. The
music was splendid, the supper recherche, and the belle
was a blonde, elegantly dressed in black satm trimmed
with gold.
* * *
The committee of the ball lately held in Liver-
pool have determined to forward the balance of cash in
land, after expenses, to the distressed Rout family in
Sydney.
* * •
There is still one little unrecorded incident of
the Mayor’s ball. Prince Edward was dancing with a
young lady with whom another course in the same
waltz collided, tearing some trimmings from the train
of the Prince’s partner. The Prince gallantly stopped,
tore off the tattered piece, threw it aside, and went on
with the dance. A smart onlooker instantly picked up
the shred of trimmings, and by way of conveying his
opinion, that the Royal mid. should have pocketed the
rag, as a souvenir of the lady, threw it on to the
shoulder of the Prince. The glance he received from
the young tar was something to be remembered. One
wouldn’t have thought that a boy conld have said so
much by a look.
* * »
We are told, by someone who ought to know,
that the chief accomplishment of the Cowra gentlemen
is waltzing, and that of the ladies whist. This is re-
versing the order ot things, with a vengeance. The
wall-flowers, in such cases, should come off best.
* * *
On the 28th ultimo, the return ball to the
Masons at Young came off with great Mat. The atten-
dance numbered about 250. Pretty little Mrs. Tom
was the belle—dressed with exquisite taste, in
ivory satin, cut square in front, elbow sleeves, short
skirt, bullion trimmings. Miss C. ran a good race for
second honours with Miss M. D., but the commanding
presence of the latter stood her in good stead —well
she deserves the honour. Miss D. is the same lady
who attended the Mayor’s ball in Yass, in the character
of Mary, Queen of Scots.
* * *
The Woollahra Rinking Club entertaine
large number of friends at Glammis Hall on the 27th
ultimo, and the promoters may be congratulated on
having achieved a success, about 150 being present.
Good music, good dancing, and pretty faces. The belle
of Paddington was the chief attraction. The Mercan-
tile Ball Gipsy, and the sisters in black velvet were
also much admired.
* * *
The Parramatta Rowing Club give a plain and
fancy dress ball on the sth August. A big success is
anticipated. Ninety-five double tickets already sold.
* * *
The sixth concert of the University Musical
Society was a success.
LATE THEATRICAL.
“ Mignon” has been, the management of the
Gaiety state, the most financially successful) opera that
the Montague-Tumer Company have as yet produced.
We are, of course, glad to hear this, as Messrs. Baylesa
and Solomon have catered so well for the theatre-
going public that they deserve to be laden with bullion.
The opera, however, though doubtless a great musical
triumph for the composer, is, unless we are mistaken,
rather too classical for the general run of the public—
the great unsoaped, more especially, being unable to
get the whistle of the various arias. Miss Montague,
however, as the heroine, is not only at her best, but she
may be said to surpass herself. Her vocalization
throughout the opera is so delicately artistic, her acting
so blended with humour and pathos, and her ap-
pearance so charming, that her performance is
one of the most delightful musical treats we
have ever had in Sydney. Nor is Mr. Turner
in any measure behind Miss Montague, so far as his in-
individual efforts are concerned. He sings the com-
poser’s music, and speaks the words of the poet. If,
therefore, the score is a little too classical for non-
musical people, and the fable not sufficiently pregnant
with startling incidents and hairbreadth ’scapes “ by-
flood and field ’’ to please the lovers of sensation, this
is no fault of the popular tenor’s. Mr. Turner and his
clever wife alike work hard for and deserve well of the
public. We have already fully noticed the opera, and
spoken'of all the performers: it will suffice, therefore,
for us now to add that the representation has improved
with each performance; and that “ Mignon ” will long
be pleasantly remembered by the cultured music-loving
section of the community. “ Maritana ” will be played
on Friday and Saturday, and in the course of next week
the public will be afforded the opportunity of hearing
Miss Annis Montague as Lucia, and Mr. Turner as
Edgardo.
* * * *
Mr. Dodge, the popular manager for Mr. Reeve, takes
a "ben.” on Tuesday next, and if the attendance is
only equal to his merits, the root will have to be taken
off the Opera House, and another circle jammed in, in
order to accomodate the phenomenal “ let.” “ The
Crushed Tragedian ” will be played, and Mr. Frank
Cates will recite Hood’s " Dream of Eugene Aram.”
There will be also other attractions, and if the hene-
ficiare would only undertake to sing “ Shoo Ply,” with
an aftermath of appropriate “ Golden Shoe ” dance,
we’d attend if we had to ride twenty miles on a
borrowed giraffe.
* * * *
Mr. Kelly is daily expected in* Sydney, with Miss
Emma Wangenheim, Mr. Lester, Mr. Bolton, and the
rest of the company—including the noveaux mariii, Mr.
and Mrs. Abrahams. If Mr. Kelly will call round at
our office, he will find a ton or two of communications
from “ Murriker ” awaiting him—all of which arrived
by last ’Frisco mail.
* * * *
Miss Maggie Glendinning, the well-known so-
prano, is, we understand, negociating to appear at
Adelaide, in a series of concerts. We trust, however,
before she flits, that she will do a warble in Sydney.
Pomeroy is in Adelaide now—and that’s bad enough;
but if Maggie flees, too, we shall indeed be “ undone."
Therefore—a chord, please, Mr. Conductor—“ Sing,
sweet bird.”
* * * *
Mr. Dewhnrst’s agent writes to say that Mr.
Dewhurst is not a “ frost” in Melbourne, but a success.
We record this because we always make a point of
believing an agent. And we also made a error in stating
that Mr. D. had shifted to the Opera House. We copied
this, however, from a Herald telegram: we shall copy
from the Herald no more.
* * * *
Professor Haselmayer is to show at the Schoo
of Arts next week. Mr. H. N. Montague has accepted
the business management of the show, and as the
Professor has a great many new tricks and the
Regal patronage, his season should have a magical
success.
* * * *
The Simonsen English and Italian Opera Com-
pany continue to play before fair houses in Hobart,
Notwithstanding the criticisms in the Mercury, Signor
Bianci steadily advances in popular favour—and that,
too, deservedly.
Earl Clanwilliam almost well.
A very amiable Canowindra belle will shortly
exchange her name for that of a well-known Blayney
gentleman, connected with a great coaching firm.
Mr. William Forster, M.L.A., has, we regret to
hear, been seriously indisposed during the past three
weeks, and is still under medical treatment. Dr. Roberts
in attendance.


IMPORTS
AND
INTERESTING STAI
Bead, Mark, and Inwardly !
PUEITT OP FAMILY OH
THE UTMOST IMPOI
HOP BITTI
Purest, Best, and Cheapest
Made.
THEY ABE COMPOUNDI
HOPS, BUCHU, MAND
DOPHYLLIN) & DAP
The Oldest, Best, most Be
Valuable Medicines in the V
addition contain all the bee
effective curative properties
Bitters, being the Greatest BI
ITER and life and health rei
on earth.
No disease or ill-health can
exist where these Bitters £
varied and perfect are their op
They Give New Life and
Aged and Infir;
To Clergymen, Lawyers, L
Ladies, and all those whoi
employments cause irregula
Blood, Stomach, Bowels, or
who require an Appetiser, To
Stimulant, these Bitters are
being highly curative, tonic,
lating, without intoxicating.
No matter what your failii
toms are, or what the diseat
is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t v
are sick, but if you only feel 1
able, use the Bitters at once,
your life. Hundreds have b(
BO doing, at a trifling cost.
Ask yonz Chemist, Druggisi
Do not suffer yourself, or lei
suffer, but use and urge then
Bitters.
Bemember, Hop Bitters
drugged nostrum, but the pnei
and best Medicine ever mad
son or family should be withoi
MONTBFIOBE, STUA
thing for Everyb
ABE THE
General Agents,
Sydney, N.S.W., Ausi
&AL ASSO^
I say, Ben, which had you rat
or go fishing P Why. play billiatds i
Pitt-street.—[ Advt.]
Public holiday gazetted Tue
the Treasury officers were not all
rights. The unhappy victims wa:
«Sir Henry ” allows insubordinal
Ministry; and they deplore the (
Civil Servants throughout the col<
Acceptances for the Grand 1
ment will positively close on Tuei
A. S. Gould, lessee of the Coffee Ti
[Advt.]
Handicaps for the first Han
are now ready, and may bo seen i
Billiard-room. Acceptances open
Gould.—[Advt.]
There are two lines in Tennysi
Prize Cantata which, for the mo
ments, cannot be beaten this sid
line. They bump along as follows:
" Look downwards from Thir
On us who all Thy wisdom owi
Now if A. B. C. D. E. P. Moodie 01
as even a bob-tailed paddy melon,
Clontarf did he make a poet of h
could earn ten and six a day as a la
The inquest on the deceased
Darlinghurst Gaol, resulted in «
Jones and his “ assistant" from th
tug maltreated deceased on his
prisoners swore that deceased i
mauled. Now, if this was false ev
unpleasant reflection for these witi
deathbeds; and if it was true, it wo
sant still if they happened to fall
Darlinghurst—and to be nursed by
assistant.
There is nothing more nourie
in cold weather than a cup of really
difficulty has been to obtain it p'
secured at a cost of one halfpenny
cup by using Cadbury’s Cocoa I
J. 1.5. il „„ „ r. J.V,„ n/3v.1+£.1.04
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
There is a small-pox scare in Hobart.
The Tasman was detained in quarantine, at
Hobart, on her last trip.
A Hobart tradesman advertises that, during his
last visit to Melbourne, he had become endowed with
brisker business habits. What a wonder I
The Tasmanian national wail “ Perfidious
Clan william."
The Waterloo House young men have been at it
again, in their own style. At a recent soirde, given to
a departing civil servant, some of the guests amused
themselves by corking the faces of those votaries of
Bacchus who had succumbed to their potations, and
then finished up with a few black eyes on their own
account.
“ Hops ” are all the rage just now in Hobart.
The ladies —and, for the matter of that, the gents.—
must do something with the fineries purchased in
anticipation of the advent of the Detached Squadron.
The Hobart Beau Brummel may be seen gratis
any afternoon, between the hours of 3 and 5, doing the
Block, Visitors from the other colonies should not
miss this treat. Per se, the beau is small and insignifi-
cant, but his get-up will not disappoint.
Who could it have been that was absent from
his duties, in a Tasmanian Government office, for six
days, and after that period was unfit for any serious
work for a very long time ? We really mustn't say.
Visitors to Hobart will have to deplore the loss
of that good old hostelry, the Ship. Host Hadly, how-
ever, will transfer his graceful presence to Webb’s.
The Australian Mutual Provident Society are
about having built splendid premises in Hobart. The
'dy wonder about these life assurance societies is how
» all manage to exist. There are some dozen in
art, and the whole population of the island is some-
» under 120,000.
THE NEWSLETTER.
A smelting furnace is to be started at Litbgow.
The Salvation Army has renewed its march in
Adelaide.'
According to latest accounts there are now 2000
people at Mount Browne.
Small-pox steadily spreads in', Sydney. There
are now 21 cases at Quarantine.
Victorian malsters desire to malt in bond barley
from other colonies. Ministers hesitate.
The tiles of the Sydney Town Hall are suspected
now. They should be “ taken up ’’ by the police.
On Saturday last Lord Augustus Loftus laid
the foundation stone of the new Sydney Hospital.
The Murray and Murrumbidgee are lower at
Echuca than they have been for years at this season.
Robert Hack, a Parramatta publican, has been
fined £5 and costs for getting up a consultation sweep.
Three financial companies are in course of for-
mation at Dunedin, N.Z., one haying a capital o
£250.000.
I |The second tram line in Oxford-street is still
being “rapidly ” pushed on. It is expected to be com-
pleted in 1982.
Larrikins turned off the gas at part of the
Adelaide Exhibition on Saturday night. Consternation
among manias.
Attendance at the Australian Museum for the
month of July, 1881: —Week days, 5266; Sundays,
4543; total, 9809.
Mrs. Henderson, of Ferret notoriety, has been
allowed £lBOO out of the money feund on Henderson at
the time of his arrest.
The Victorian Railway Department has bought,
for £27,000, the temporary buildings at the Melbourne
Exhibition. These cost £70,000.
A ’bus-driver, Wm. Tilson, has been arrested
charged with causing the death of Elizabeth White,
aged six, by driving over her in George-streeet.
Sir George Grey’s Local Government Bill,which
is expected to be the fight of the present sitting of the
N. Z. Parliament, proposes a radical change in the
system of govemmeat, enabling the President and
Council of certain areas, which are left undefined, to
make practically any laws for local government, with
certain exceptions that are specified in the Act.
Luigi IRiove, who fatally stabbed Dr. John
Allen Qiddings, at Nymagee, during a drunken row
(with a woman at the bottom of it), has been committed
for manslaughter.
New Zealand gold yield for the first half of the
present year shows a decrease as compared with the
corresponding half of last year. The totals are, 1881;
114,036 oz., value £456,319 ; and 1880,150.921 oz., value
£606,313.
The Philosophical Institute of Canterbury, N.Z.,
discussed a motion, “That the Society petition the
Government to fit out and send an expedition for the
purpose of Antarctic exploration." The motion was
lost, however.
Alderman J. D. Young says it is well known
what part a certain Alderman had in selling the sus-
pected tiles at the Town Hall to a sub-contractor. Yet i
people wonder why proceedings against scamping con-
tractors are staved off!
Three natives supposed to have been concerned
in the murder of Kleinsmith, a naturalist, two assist-
ants, and the Hon. Mr. Lyttleton, have been shot by
boat parties from the Sandfly and Beagle, gunboats,
assisted by friendly natives.
At Tam worth, the other day, a man fastened to
a buggy a horse which had never been in harness before,
and, because it wouldn’t go, thrashed it with a heavy
stockwhip for fully half-an-hour. The poor beast’s hide
was literally out from its body.
William Jones was run over, and his leg
fractured, by a cab near the railway station. At the In-
firmary £124 18s. was found in his pockets. This should
be a warning never to have £124 18s. in one’s pockets,
or wear legs near the railway station.
A remarkable outbreak of typhoid fever has
taken place at Christchurch, N.Z. The disease has
been conclusively proved to have had its origin in a
dairy, and to have been taken to a large number of
houses in the milk supplied from this dairy.
The report of three architects utterly condemns
the Town Hall plastering. Alderman J. D. Young
moved that immediate {proceedings should be taken
against the contractor. Kippax and Green interceded,
and action was deferred. But bad eggs don’t get any
better for keeping.
The very latest official returns, published Jin the
St. James’ Gazette, give the mortality from small-pox,
at all ages, during the preceding twelve months, among
the population of London, as 90 per million among the
vaccinated class, and 3350 per million among the
unvaccinated class.
In reply to a deputation of workmen who waited
on him to ask that the new lines of Victorian railway
should be made by piece work, Mr. Bent, the Minister,
promised to offer every encouragement for navvies to
combine in small gangs and take up portions of the new
lines on their own account.
Dr. Cecil Jackson has been committed for trial,
charged with the manslaughter of Miss Hilder at Mary-
borough, Vic. At the inquest, witnesses gave evidence
to the effect that there had been undue intimacy
between Jackson and the deceased, and that the latter
had taken heavy doses of narcotics.
The Catholic organ at Dunedin, The Tablet,
has forwarded to the address of Mr. Patrick Egan,
treasurer of the Irish National Land Levgue, Paris,
orders on the Bank of England for the sums of £lOO
(first instalment of the collection at Dunedin), and
£2112s 6d subscribed at Charleston.
Great complaint among Aucklanders that the
postal authorities in Melbourne do not forward their
portion of the Suez Mail via Sydney, instead of by
Bluff.
The Victorian Exhibition Commissioners have
recommended that gold medals be given to each of the
exhibitors recommended for the Emperor of Germany’s
prize.
The New Zealand customs revenue * for the
quarter ended" 30th June at the various ports of New
Zealand was £328,327 against £234,213 for the correspond-
ing quarter last year,
The blacks having been spearing Mr. G. L.
Robinson’s cattle, up Cooktown way, and Mr. ;E.
Hannan having been driven in from the 15-Mile, the
Hebaed yells for the Native Police.] |
Dr. Bermingham (R.C. priest), of Wagga, has
got £5OO from the Evening News for libel. Verdict by
consent. A strong Protestant flavour may be expected
to pervade the News for some time now.
South Australia is bidding for the Mount Browne
trade. The miners complain that N.S.W. is all behind
with supplies, for sometimes there is scarcely any flour,
tea or sugar on .the diggings, and not a pound of good
tobacco,
A ship’s steward having broken the Custom
House seals on a cask of spirits in order to got drunk,
the Collector of Customs at Newcastle has called upon
the captain of the vessel to pay duty upon the whole
package.
The Bulletin prize of alady’s keyless hunting
watch is exciting considerable competition at the
Singleton show.
Says a writer in Vanity Fair re the matter of
the big volunteer parade before the Queen on the 9th
July“ But what is the use of this * splendid physique
amd martial bearing ’ if it is never paraded before the
Queen’s enemies on the field of war at the ugly end of
loaded rifles ? It seems a terrible waste of ‘ physique ’
to use it up in marching past and firing at bull’s-eyes
on an iron target. Fancy 300,000 martial and gallant
citizens always firing at bull’s-eyes for mugs, and never
a shot fired by one of them at a living and retaliating
target. Surely something might be done to utilise so
much martial ardour, and show to Europe that it is not
merely an army playing at soldiers. Since the institu-
tion of the Volunteer Army there have been several
wars at Afghanistan and in South Africa, in which a
contingent of 2000 picked volunteer riflemen would
have been very useful. But, unfortunately, there has
been no sign of volunteering for these distant scenes of
glory; though the Australian Volunteers seta noble
example to the English Volunteers by volunteering a
regiment to fight against the Boers, which was most
unwisely refused, instead of being accepted by this
skilful Government.” *
Numerous desertions have taken place from the
Detached Squadron.
At Richmond, a young man brought to the
watch-house suffering from D.T., was placed near a fire
to warm himself, and seized a handful of live coals,
which he thrust into his mouth, burning it badly. |
At Brisbane, the family supposed to be infected
with small-pox, are in quarantine. The Health Officer
offers to bet £5O to £25 with the doctor who declared their
complaint to be small-pox, that it isn’t small-pox at all.
He further says he’s quite ready to be inoculated with
virus taken from the infected children.
Another child-murderer ! Queensland this time.
Some time ago, two children of Mr. Hall, at Clifton,
near Rockhampton, were drowned while in charge of a
nursemaid. It is now rumoured that the girl has con-
fessed that one fell in, and that, to remove witnesses
of her carelessness, she drowned the other, and tried
to drown a half-caste girl, who, however, escaped by
swimming.
The law case at Townsville between Bandholtz
and Russel, rs the Day Dawn claim, which has caused
so much interest in the North, has been settled, Band-
holtz paying Russel £lOOO. Another case of equal
interest, Doyle versus Hamilton, damages for libel, has
also been settled—Hamilton paying Doyle £lOO.
A feeling is gaining ground fast in N.Z.,
amongst those engaged in the South Sea Island traffic,
that it will soon become practically impossible to en-
gage in it, unless the natives, who have given so many
proofs of their treacherous and bloodthirsty natures,
are taught a few much-needed and convincing lessons.
With regard te the complaint made by the
widow of the late Constable Bowen, shot in the fight at
Wantabadgery, that she cannot got the money collected
for the benefit of her eldest son, we are informed that
there are circumstances connected with the case which
render it altogether inadvisable that the funds should
at present be disbursed.
“Captain” Sutherland, of the Adelaide Salva-
tion Army, has been run in and fined a “ bob,” for
creating a disturbance with bis troops. The gallant
captain elected to “ take it out," with all the defiance
of a prize larrikin, and actually underwent the hardship
of being imprisoned, till the rising of the Court, “ for
righteousness’ sake." Noble and self-sacrificing martvr I
The license fees on breweries under the proposed
new bill, arc so graduated as to effectually handicap the
small brewers. The fees are £lO for the first 100 barrels,
and £5 for every additional hundred, up to 3900 barrels.
Over that the output is untaxed ; so that a brewer who
makes, say, 8000 barrels will only have to pay half the
tax per barrel that a smaller brewer would have to
stand.
Some r of the sovereigns recently found planted
on the St. Hilda beach, Melbourne, dated back to 1822,
and the silver coin to 1830. As an instance of the dif-
ference in the value of the sovereign then and now, it is
stated that those of the earlier date mentioned are now
worth 235. in the market. The amount of the last find
is about £5OO, and the finders are confident that much
more lies hidden.
In reply to a question asked in the N.Z. Par-
liament, the Hon. Mr. Dick said that instructions had
been sent to the Agent-General to get a supply of pure
calf lymph and send it out, but a telegram had been
received stating that this was hardly obtainable iu
England, in the present circumstances of small-pox
widely prevailing, and that the Agent-General had sent
to Brussels for a supply of the pure article.
Two station hands, Andy M‘Donald and Carr
(an Indian black), were the other day fined in a total of
£l3 9s. 4d. or three months each in gaol, for having
savagely assaulted Mr. George Causey, overseer of
Nocoleche Station, Louth. The pair tried to pull the
overseer oil his horse, the white man biting Causey’s
leg till the blood came through his trousers. The man
assailed drove them off with his stirrup-iron.
Since the inauguration of local option as to
Sunday closing in South Australia, three places have
been polled—the Burra, Moonta, and Gawler. At
Burra, the teetotal party were successful in closing all
the public-houses on Sundays; at Moonta, they were
defeated; at Gawler, the poll resulted in the houses in
all the wards being left open. By the way, Mr. Cle-
ment, an ex-publican, who is president of the Gawler
Temperance League, and made his money as an inn-
keeper, told the Liquor Law Commissioners that
Sublicans “ got fat and rich on the brains of the
runkard.” This shows how easy it is for some people
to be converted.
Mr. John Stewart, the American Adver-
tising Agent.
Perhaps no better indication of the reality of
the prosperity of N.S. Wales could be afforded
than may be deduced from the character of the
business men who have within the past year or
two made their appearance in our midst with
the view of pushing affairs. Our shrewd cousins
in America have discovered that in Australia
there is a “ big boom” on, and that there is a biz
worth attending to in N.S. Wales. Prominent
among arrivals from across the Pacific is Mr.
John Stewart, the advertising agent of Messrs.
Montefiore, Stewart, and Company, repre-
senting the far-famed Hop-Bitters, and a
variety of other notions which are being
vigorously brought before the Australian public.
Mr. Stewart is a real live agent, not an ounce of
corpse about him. Wherever he may be, people
just happen to hear of him —and whatever he wants
them to know. Mr. Stewart is popularly believed
to preserve his present high vitality and excellent
condition by adnering to a strict regimen. Every
morning before rising he imbibes the contents of a
case of Hop-Bitters, and rubs his head with the
empty bottles. A light repast of Van Hagen
Toilet Soap satisfies his cultivated palate, and
during the day he takes as a snack an occasional
square of the Great Kitchen Crystal Soap. He
travels always in great style, a covered waggon-
ette, drawn by four posters, of course.
MR. JOHN STEWART.


BRIEF MENTION.
A man often stubs his toe on the threshold of
success.
Cock-fighting is still much fancied by the upper
crust of Adelong.
The Revised Edition of the New Testament is
a “ frost." Sales don’t gee.
There is no such thing as being proud before
man, and humble before God.
The water colours lent by Mr. C. J. Royle to
the Art Gallery are well worth a visit.
Who ever saw a choir that didn’t fight—or a
musical critic that had a nice temper ?
The hypocrite is a man who tries to be pious,
but can’t—witu a preponderance of cant.
A musical society is to be formed at Grafton.
Talented conductor to be procured from Sydney.
French joke, concocted during a voyage to
Balmain—Quand on va a Balmain on prend le Quondong.
The man who headed the procession en route to
the statue foundation-laying was John Davies, of
course.
Road Agents (highwaymen) are becoming
troublesome in America, and Land Agents in New
South Wales.
According to a telegram, a tutor has accidentally
shot his two pupils. A new way of teaching the young
idea bow to shoot.
Alex. Dumas, fils, has written in the album of
the lovely Vicomtesse d’A : “ I like wicked people better
than dull people, for they rest at times."
“ Whiskyide,” not “ death from intoxication,”
it is called now. And the whiskypath is the doctor
who prescribes large doses of stimulants.
Sir Henry Parkes says that “ the most deadly
diseases in the world come from the East.” “Yes,”
adds “ The Wrecker,” “ from East Sydney.”
White-spirit is not specifically mentioned in the
published Custom-house returns of bonded-stocks.
The Treasurer shews much delicacy of feeling.
“The Wrecker” suggests that the next time
Greville makes a speech as President of the Hen
Society, he should do it in “Pigeon English.”
The Rev. Peter Macpt erson says that before
the whites arrived, the Australian aborigines were astro-
nomical adepts. Now they are dabs at —three star.
In New Zealand a man is in gaol for hitting the
landlord of his hotel with twenty-one out of a possible
twenty-three fishballs, and refusing to pay the fine.
Is a man who has been frequently fined for
thrashing his wife a fit person to act as foreman of a
jury ? We mean, can his sense of justice be relied on ?
The Grafton Borough Council are seriously
thinking of hiring a small boy’s tongue to wet about
1150 duty stamps required to be put upon the de-
bentures.
On the Palmer, the noble savage is being sub-
jected to the taming influences of household drudgery,
and baby hawking brings out all their splendid traits of
character.
Henry Hinxman thrashed his wife the other day
—by command of the angel Gabriel, he says. Like the
gallant Nolan at Balaklava, he must have misunderstood
the order.
In his recently published novel, Mr. Jephson
describes “ a Mayor to be something with an instrument
of torture called an address, which he uses unsparingly.”
What a libel!
The Mackat (Q.) Mercury contains the fol-
lowing ad. :—“Wanted to purchase about 50 store pigs,
also a boy for shepherding.” Mackay is the great field
for kanaka labour.
The other day, in a Melbourne police court, a
detective who had spoken of “ the best sort of burglars,”
explained to the Bench that he meant the burglars who
wore the best clothes.
A Lower Clarence resident created quite an
impression the other morning by singing operatic
selections on the second floor of a Grafton hotel, before
the matitutinal meal.
Child of five years soliloquising at window;
“ Oh! Ido wish I could go out and sell The Bulletin !”
Fond Mother: “Isn’t he original? Everybody else
wants to go out and buy it.”
When a Sydney evening newspaper says it’s
glad to hear that a distinguished invalid " is recovering
from his attack of yesterday ,” what are the public to
understand ? Isn’t there room here for a jury of four ?
The other day, we are told, a baby was named
after Sir Henry Parkes, who, upon being notified of
the honour, sent the little innocent his photograph—and
thus the sins of the parents are riveted upon the child.
After the officials of a Kansas town had vainly
endeavoured to disperse a mob, a minister mounted a
box and made the simple announcement, “ A collection
will now be taken up.” The result can be easily guessed.
Commissioner Kerr reports that lots of bar-
risters, though they may have chambers in the Temple,
are literally starving. Well, even in sunny N.S. Wales,
barristers seem to have enormous appetites—especially
for fees.
At West Maitland, the other day, an “ old
offender " pleaded, in mitigation, that he had two little
children at home suffering from small-pox. It turned
out afterwards that he meant the effects of vaccination.
Fined 10s.
Laconic correspondence between two personal
friends in the country : “Do me the honour of lending
me £1 to get my cow out of the pound.” “ I would,
but I paid my last shilling to the boys to take the cow
to the pound.”
On dit the whole staff of a certain Government
Department will shortly appear in suits made d la those
recently worn by Bertie Victor. This is cheering news
indeed. Gaffney—the master tailor—has evidently re-
covered confidence.
It seems probable that the type of the Rotten
Contractor J.P. sat on the bench in Judea, for one of
the points in favour of the Promised Land was that
“ there was no magistrate that might put them to
shame in anything.”
Stationmasters in the Queensland Post and
Telegraphic Departments are to be styled managers in
future. Persons enquiring for their missing Bulletins
will be expected to address these potentates with greater
humility than ever, now.
Our offspring, the Adelaide Bulletin, has
an article headed “Our Finances,” stating, inter alia,
“ our current year’s revenue has jumped up to £179,417
over and above that of last year." We are glad our
godson is making a little money.
Judging by certain cases heard at the Bathurst
Police Court, on Friday last, there are millers up that
way who would assuredly hang themselves if they were
only given Government rope enough. Of course e«la va
sans dire with regard to a contractor.
Prisoners in the Hudson County Gaol, U.S., are
getting their punishment in advance. Small-pox has
broken out in the gaol, and the courts are afraid to try
any of the prisoners for fear that the disease may be
brought to the bar with the prisoners.
The latest phase of idiocy at Dubbo is for a
youth with a waist like a barrel of Toohey’s, and boots
like gin-cases, to dress in woman’s clothes, parade the
town on Sunday evening, and imagine he is Queen
Cleopatra, or some other defunct beauty.
Poor Rout left his wife and children unprovided
for. His wages were shortened by the work of the
heathen Chinee, and his life was shortened by the same
party’s filth. His unfortunate family would thankfully
receive anything except an Amateur Theatrical
Benefit.
Scene : ’Bus conveying passengers to University
concert. Fat old lady (16stone): “ What a long time it
takes; how slowly these horses do go.” Benevolent
old gentleman : “ The horses go fast enough, ma’am;
it’s not that—it’s the waits," Lady: “ The weights—
well, I’m sure.”
People in Sydney are now all for-lom. Of course,
we mean, all for Lome whisky.)
The Governments new sanitary corps, attired
in their splendid uniform of white with yellow trim-
mings, was driven up George-street the other day, and
was received by the juveniles with enthusiasm, under
the impression that the Government had started a
small-pox circus.
The Government sometimes exhibits unexpected
prudence, They placed copies of the Herald and D.
Telegraph under the foundation stone for the Queen’s
statue, but no Bulletin. This was, of course, to ensure
that no one would want to get at the contents of the
bottle and steal them.
There is no danger, says an American paper,
that Secretary Windom will relax in his efforts to
punish the Treasury officials guilty of the misuse of
public money. Let’s see. To what date is it that
those proceedings against our Corporation swindlers
have been postponed again ?
It is stated that Beaconsfield’s photograph was
buried with him. And yet Beaconsfleld was not so
very homely. Now, if George Eliot’s photograph had
been buried with her, we should not have been sur-
prised, and purchasers of the Sydney Mail would have
been spared much suffering.
It is quite amusing to see the young Bank clerks
in Grafton buying up The Bulletin on Mondays, just
to see what is said about the Misses Horan’s acting.
They did net appreciate the “ crooning” allusion in last
issue, considering the word “ banks" mixed up with
“moonlight” as rather personal.
An English midland counties’ parson, thinking
the prayer ordered to be used when Parliament is in
Session is not exactly suited to the times, omits it, and
substitutes the Good Friday Collect, which commands
one to pray for “ Jews, Turks, Heretics, and Infidels,”
—to which he adds ** and Members of Parliament"
lowa, in the U.S., has just had the champion
hurricane. On May 13 a storm lifted the bam of Mr.
John Pitman, which contained six horses, and carried it
a distance of half a mile without injury to the horses ;
also two barns belonging to R. Baker were blown a
distance of two miles. No lives were reported lost.
Mr. Cyril Blackett gave the tenth lecture on
Architecture and Building Construction, at the School
of Arts Technical College, on Thursday night last. He
began with the “Hall” of the Saxon, and traced the
gradual development of the art of building nearly down
to the Sydney Town Hall—but not quite so low down.
We notice that in Victoria one Hubert Manning
has been fined £lO, in default a month’s gaol, for having
tested the firmness of Mary Curley’s hair and attempt-
ing to cause her nose and ear to exchange places. The
affair may not appear so terrible when it is stated that
the parties are related by marriage: she’s his mother-
in-law.
An “ Ode on the occasion of laying the founda-
tion stone ” of the Queen’s statue, has been written by
Mr. Henry Halloran, C.M G., printed at the Govern-
ment Printing Office, and was thrown freely among the
crowd at the ceremony. No one was hurt—but then
the ode is not one of the author’s heavy pieces, although
it is striking.
We are pleased to hear, that like the small-pox,
the libjlling bis. is spreading rapidly. The Evangelical
Standard, Queensland, now holds defamatory scrip to
the value of £3OOO. If the plaintiffs want a thoroughly
reliable jury, we can confidently recommend them to
; but this looks like an ad. Let us change the
chat, and discuss the Sfax question.
Lately, at Cooktown, on Sunday, about 100
blacks (including 25 gins) aocepted Inspector Fitz-
gerald’s invitation to meet him on the North Shore.
They camped about 3 miles inland, but about 30 came
down to the beach and fraternized with 40 white visitors
from Cooktown, who presented them with articles of
food and clothing, and with beads and trinkets.
The editor of the Maytown (Palmer River)
newspaper writes:—‘‘We remember very well a me-
morable trip to the Cape Bedford and M'lver tribes,
when, with reckless liberality, we sacrificed a garment
to decorate a dusky form and parted from (the form)
with sorrow.” Jean Jaques Eousseau’s confessions
are child’s-play compared with this sort of frankness.
A few days ago a constable was giving evidence
at the West Maitland Police Court in a case wherein a
publican was charged with allowing drunkenness in his
licensed house. Said the examining attorney : “Don’t
you know, sir, that one of the persons of whom you are
speaking is a strict Son of Temperance ?” “ That may
be, but I know he was very drunk,” replied the blue-
bottle.
The Gundagai paper says:—“That the hon.
member for that constituency has been suffering from
inflammation in his neck and ears.” Now, we’re glad
in one respect that it’s the member for Gundagai who’s
thus afflicted, for there’s a member of the Ass-
embly who has so much ear that it wouldn’t do for him
to get so large a portion of his frame in a state of
irritation.
The Campbelltown Herald in congratu-
lating Mr. M’Kendrick, a local resident, on his recovery
from illness, coolly says :—" So serious was this case
that on two occasions he was reported dead, and his
obituary notice was in type in the Camden Times
office." Mr. M’Kendrick, when he read this, no doubt
felt as if he had just received the felicitations of the
family undertaker.
They seem scarcely to be more careful in choosing
their law administrators in Colorado, than we are in
N. S. Wales. A coach was stuck up and robbed, the
other day. The leader of the band was recognized as
Charles Allison, formerly Deputy Sheriff of Corejos
county. Mr. Allison would have been a J.P. had he
come to this country. But he wouldn’t have stuck up
a coach. He would have taken a Town Hall contract,
er bought land Darling Harbour way, after getting the
straight tip from a confederate.
A young fellow, who was “ run in ” at the
Central Station, the other night, in a moppy and
broomy condition, refused to describe himself otherwise
than as a “ moral agriculturalist.” The bench, which
consisted of a swindling contractor and a fellow who
has been three times insolvent, demanded an explana-
tion. The culprit explained that he was engaged in
“ sowing wild oats.”
Cook’s River tramway abandoned. Illawarra
railway will do all that’s wanted. Now, it’s a curious
circumstance that no enterprising and well-informed
person has been buying blocks of land Cook’s River way.
Dan has been heard to say that not a sowl has been buy-
ing an acre that way—but, be jabers, some connictions
of the Ministry sould great areas befoor it kem out that
the thram would be made at all, at all.
“ Town Hall Contractor ” writes to know when
the plans and specifications will be out for the erection
of that £20,000 chapel of the Rev. John Dowie’s ? We
believe everything will be fit by the Ist April, ad
Calendas Grcecas. By the way, what became of the
philanthropist who gave Captain John this handsome
present, and why is it he has not received the usual
testimonial ? Let us see—his name was—eh —yes —
Walker.
At the meeting of Good Templars held to con-
sider the Licensing Bill, Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., was
present, of course, and took occasion to state that he
had made arrangements to enable the working classes
and children to —have a look at the Princes. An en-
quirer asks what this had to do with the licensing
question. We can answer that, first shot. The working
classes and children are to be licensed by John Davies
to see the Princes, his property.
The editor, in a late edition of the Campell-
town Herald, apologises for the absence of the cus-
tomary leader, by saying that he has been courting. As
Mr. Webb is a married mas, and as we are a moral
paper, we think we are only doing our duty in stating
that he was not courting in a social, but in a Supreme
Court sense. Happiness will now reign again in the
Ancestral Hall of the Webbs—and after all, it won’t
cost much to mend that water-jug.
A boy named M‘Grath, aged 14, has been fined
40s. or 14 days, the highest penalty provided by law, for
pelting a Chinaman. Mr. Lowe, solicitor, who asked
the Bench to reconsider their decision and reduce the
penalty, got a deserved subbing from the magistrates,
who said the offender was old enough to know better,
and his father was responsible for his upbringing.
Messrs. Scott and V. Brown were the justices. A few
more like them would gave larrikinism a stiff check.
One of the finest little mills seen in Sydney for
a long time, took place the other day between two dray-
men. One was coming into, and the other backing out
of, a narrow lane. Neither would give way, and the
man who was coming out, by way of showing that he
was in the right, threw a half-brick at his friend. The
latter pulled off his coat, and the pair “ went at it."
Neither could fight or hit straight, but they knocked
each other down by blows time after time, and it wasn’t
until the half-brick man had had eight falls on the
asphalt that he gave in.
It is alleged that at a recent wedding in a very
high family, the head of which has conceived it to be
incumbent on him to set a good example by banishing alco-
holic liquors from his house, and who, of course, could
consistently make no exception save on medical grounds,
had his daughter’s health drunk in zoedone by all
guests who did not produce doctors’ certificates stating
that on that particular day it was essential to their
health that they should consume a glass or two of
champagne.
A young gentleman was, the other day, undergo-
ing examination by a Deniliquin medico with a view to life
assurance. “ Have you ever undergone any surgical
operation ?” enquired the doctor. “ Yes, several,”
was the prompt reply. Foolscap was called into
requisition, duly headed, and the doctor, with a pull at
his shirt sleeves, commenced: “ Now, be good enough
to state the first.” The proponent replied that the first
consisted in the extraction of a big back tooth. He was
passed.
The aesthetic craze has broken out at last. This
morning an Esau-looking party walked into the
academy of a “ culler’d” professor of the tonsorial art,
and not seeing any one about the place, called out,
“Hey! Is the barber at home?” The back parlour
door opened at once, and as the insulted brudder
entered the shop he indignantly observed: “ Barbah
be dem—l am a professhinil har’dresser.” The
‘‘white trash” apologised, and said he’d look in
again when the weather got a little settled.
At a Northern Court, the other day, a Commis-
sioner in Insolvency hazarded an opinion that there
were people in the town who were quite solvent, but
owed money considerably ever twelve months. A
solicitor present took the remark rather unkindly,
and retorted with acerbity, “ That has nothing to do
with this case.” The Commissioner replied that he
was well aware of it, without Mr. 's information.
The pair looked as if they loved one another—oh, so
dearly. Of course, this is a tale of credit.l
During the hearing of the libel action, Goode v.
Daslon, the brilliant Julian rather came out, and made
a good pun or two. Dr. Goode was speaking about Sir
Somebody Something, in the medical profession, who
was originally the son of a baker. “ Ah," said Salamons,
“ had he been in my profession, he might have been
Master of the Bolls." Again, when alluding to the
draughtiness of the Court, Sir William Manning grum-
bled, and said he objected very strongly to the
draughts, “ although," said he, “ some Judges may like
them.” “ Yes,” said Salamons, ‘‘Judge Windeyer.”
A philological friend, who writes from “ Mula-
bimbah, otherwise Newcastle,” takes exception, en the
part of the Laughing Jackass, to our heading, “The
Kookaburra," the correct rendering of which, he says.
is “ GOo-goo-brah.” This is the age of new versions,
and our critic is probably correct; but, consider! ng the
disturbance likely to be created in the minds of the
vulgar, we standby our old edition, with apologies to the
“ Brawlerong," the “ Wargan,” the ‘ Niberiberil," and
the “Werang”—which we gather are the correct
aboriginal renderings of Hell, or something of the kind.
Sydney usurers are as well up to their business
as usurers in any country in the world. Three years
ago a person borrowed £2l from a “ discount ” estab-
lishment in this city. £4 was deducted for drawing up
a mortgage, and £3 10s for—well, the borrower never
could exactly understand what that was for. The net
cash advanced was thus £l3 10s., and for this the victim
has ever since paid £l4 yearly, as interest. A friend
stepped in, the other day, and paid up the principal.
And people say our business men are not smart I
Three years ago, when the Yarra Lunatic
Asylum, Melbourne, was under the charge of a leading
doctor, who has since “ gone to the land where we all
must go,” the violent inmates were dressed in costumes
of canvas, the only opening, round the neck and a
short way down the back, being fastened by brass pad-
locks. On one occasion, during the worthy doctor’s
regime, the asylum was visited by the Governor and
suite. All the patients were paraded—and arrayed on
one side like so many mummies were the canvas men.
Presently, one of these advanced, and, quietly touching
the doctor on the shonlder, asked: “ Was Solomon in
all his glory ever arrayed like one of these ?"
In Cole’s window, King-street, there is an oil
painting of the late Jim Punch, and so faithfully is the
painting drawn, that a certain reporter on a contempo-
rary journal walked up to the picture on Saturday last,
and said, “ Jim—luck’s out at present; can you lend a
fellow a fiver.” And so true is this portrait to the
original that it immediately spoke up and said,
“Certainly, old man—fifty fivers, if you want it. I never
shut down on a brain man yet." The pressman put out
his hand for the coin, but as none came he knew there
was something crooked, and starting back he exclaimed,
“ Got ’em again, by thunder.” Poor Jim was a second
Maecenas, audit will be long before our literary men
forget him.
He was a back-blocks squatter, who hailed from
Caledonia stem and wild, and he had invited a few
friends to his station. For a time all went well, and
everybody enjoyed themselves; but after a while the
tobacco ran out, the whisky got scarce, and so did a
great many other things which most back-blocks people
who have " company ” consider indispensable for a
good square meal. But, nevertheless, the host continued
to exclaim each day as he and his guests arose from the
table: " Thank God for a good dinner 1" At last, one
visitor observed to another: “ Surely old Mac Jumbnck
doesn’t imagine that we think his dinners good. He
knows us better than that. He must really think that
the Almighty will take it all in, and be humbugged by
his polite blasphemy.”
Mr. J. A. M’Killop, manager of the Commercial
Bank at Carcoar, is the inventor of what purports to be
an improved form of bank cheque. One of these has been
forwarded to ns in blank. We have seen cheques we
liked better, which differed from this one in having
Jimmy Tyson’s signature inscribed. However, we have
given Mr. M‘KiHop’s a fair trial. We have filled it in
for a handsome amount, faithfully observing the printed
instructions received with it, and we have presented it
at every bank in town without deriving the slightest
benefit. We conclude that the other bank managers
are jealous of Mr. M'Killop, or they wouldn’t treat his
form with so much contempt. We propose now to send
it to our dear little friend, Carcoar Mary, to cash for us
at M'Killop’s own bank.
“ There is in these people such a fine contempt
for all morality,” said Prosper in one of his
letters, “ that I can only find the Romans of old time
to compare with them; they have their avidity and
audacity. The worst of it is that those scoundrels are,
in reality, very powerful; that they have, on all occa-
sions, the headstrongness of a mule, and not a whit
more conscience than one of the petty Italian tyrants
of the 16th century. Those are the elements of success
in an age when Providence insists on working no more
miracles.” The strange thing about this is that
Prosper wrote it years ago, and had never heard of the
Sydney Town Hall or a progressive railway system.
Why, even the Order of Michael and George had not
been instituted at the time.
It is whispered in well-informed circles that an
appalling incident marred the pleasures of the Princes’
visit to Hudson Bro’s. factory. Just as they had sat
down to spoil some saws with the emery wheels, an
atrocious villain said out loud that these wheels effected
twelve hundred revolutions per minute. Lord
Augustus, with diplomatic readiness blew his nose
loudly the moment the first syllable of the fearful ex-
pression was spoken. Mr. Dalton turned ashy pale.
The offender has been sent to quarantine to catch the
small-pox, no other Constitutional method of getting
rid of him effectually presenting itself, although Oapt.
Fosbery mercifully suggested that he should he im-
prisoned for life on the charge of having a watch and
chain and never having been accused of any offence. It
will be understood that their Royal Highnesses have
been carefully brought up, so that the word “ Revolu-
tion ” with all its shocking associations should be
totally unknown to them.
There is perhaps hardly a beam, a girder, or a
brick in the New City Hall untainted by the pitch pot
of corrupt contracts. The New City Hall is by no
means a white elephant. From its basement to its
towers, it reeks with the flavour of jobbery, and is
redolent with the odour of well-greased palms. Hold
on, though! Before the Municipal Council run to the
City Solicitor and interfere with his urgent business in
connection with postponing proceedings against archi-
tects and contractors, by instructing him to instantly
issue a writ against The Bulletin for libel, we desire
to explain that the above is from the ’Frisco Evening
Post, and may not refer to Sydney at all. There is
certainly a flavour of Tom Slattery about the par. It
suggests wiping out the Board of New City Hall Com-
missioners. Wiping it out means saving annually 3600
dollars—the extra salaries of the Auditor, Mayor, and
County Attorney—and cutting off the red tape of an
expensive, luxurious Isecretary, his clerk, and various
and sundry other leeches on the taxpayers’ throats.
This is a solemn judicial fact. Scene —Jury
Court. Time, 11 a.m. Mr. Darley, Q.C., to Sir
William Manning (with delicacy): “I am informed,
your Honor, that one of the jury is" (pauses to
choose a phrase) “ er —incapable of understanding the
evidence in this case." Sir William (after questioning
the juryman, and receiving gutteral replies : “ This is a
painful occurrence. Very painful. I will adjourn this
case till 1.30, when, if this gentleman is not (emulating
the delicacy of the learned council) better, it may be my
duty to pursue a very unpleasant course.” Scene ll.
The same. Time, 1.30. (“Incapable” juryman in box
wearing an air of superlative dignity). Mr. Darley,
Q.C.: “I am still informed, your Honor, that the jury-
man is—er (with feeling) er incompetent to discharge
his duties." Party who took charge of juryman during
the interum examined, and states: “ Took him for a
ride in a cab. Administered refreshments P Yes,
oysters. Any liquor? Yes—Vinegar with the
oysters (sensation in court), and a cup of tea. Was of
opinion that the gentleman was now perfectly able to
discharge his duties.” Counsel on one side being still
unsatisfied, juryman was placed in the box. His
Honor: “Mr. X., you don’t seem —(with refinement)
very well. Is there anything the matter with yon—
anything preying on your—mind?" Juryman (with
effusion): “My dear Mishter Manning; my dear shir ;
my dear Shir William Manning; I know you very well—
quite competent to fill respons’ble posish’n—quite, I
’shure you. Be known you for yearsh, I can sthand up
before these gentlemensh and shay sho. Quite
comp’tent (crescendo). I’m thorough gen’leman 1 ”
After this astounding statement a doctor was called to
examine the “ thorough gentleman,” and stated, on
oath, that he was not fit to serve upon any jury at that
time. Case adjourned. What became of the Palladium
is uncertain. More tea and oysters, probably.
Of course you have all heard of it. We mean
Pure Indian Tea, which Messrs. laglis, Nixon, and Co.
(of Bridge-street), agents for the Scottish Imperial In-
surance Company, are selling by tons to the thrifty
housewife. A teaspoonful of this Indian bohea will
make a gallon thiiere for the artisan’s family, and a
couple of dozen leaves will make “ five o’clock tea ” for
all the Government House aesthetes. It is so strong
that other insurance companies will only take risks on
Messrs. Nixon and Co.’s premises at dynamite rates,
and it is so sanitary in its action that the Scottish In-
surance Co. will take all Indian tea-drinkers’ lives at
greatly reduced rates. Therefore, go for it. It is good
And this is the plain tea-ruth.
PARKES AND PUSTULES.


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880,
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches
—Any,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Echuea Annual Meeting August 4.
Wyndham (Vic) August 6.
Ballarat T.C. Steeplechase Meeting August 11.
Townsville August 11, 12.
Sydney Tattersall’s August 13.
Kensington Park (Vic.) August 15.
Maitland August 16.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club August 20.
Qympie August 24, 25.
Hawkesbury E.C. Annual . August 25, 27.
Parramatta August 20.
AJ.C. Spring Meeting September 3,6, 8,10.
Murrurundi September 14.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Adelaide September 24.
Northern Jockey Club September 27, 28.
Wollongong October 12,13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13,15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Kensington Park October 22.
Victoria E.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (Vic.) November 6-
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Murrumbidgee Spring Masking November 23, 24, 25.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December.
AQUATICS.
Maiden Single Sculls in Skiffs.—
Mr. J. A. Fairfax’s Prize August 6.
Wallace Ross v. Morris, £4OO August.
Boydv. Elliott August.
Boyd v. Ross August.
Champion Fours, Maryborough, (Q.) September 9.
Trickettv. Boyd September.
Rush v. Laycock September.
Walker Whisky Trophy September.
Elliott v. Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
Sportsman Challenge Cup, 200 guineas—New-
castle- on-Tyne October.
N.S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October 15.
FOOTBALL.
Intercolonial—Victoria v. N.S. Wales August 6.
PEDESTEIANISM.
Summerfleld v. C. Bannerman, 100 yards, £4O,
Association Ground August 6.
£. Elba v. A. Skinner (4 yards), £lO aside, 150
yards—lnverell August 13.
COURSING,
Now South Wales Champion Stakes August 5.
Australian Club (Stormont Plate) August 11.
Hawkesbury C.C. opening August 12, 13.
Victoria Club August 18.
Bathurst August 80
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
A hunt club is being formed at West Maitland.
Mistake has been backed to win the Maribyr-
nong Plate at 1000 to 35.
The N.Z. horse Hornby is to be relegated to the
stud this coming season.
Thirteen thousand trout ova have been received
in Adelaide from Tasmania.
The V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup are caus-
ing a hit of speculation in N.Z.
Madame Du Barry, the winner of the Good-
wood Cup, is by Favouius out of Strategy.
Redfern v. Parramatta football clubs on Satur-
day resulted in a victory for Eedfern by 3 tries to nil.
Upwards of 60 entries are announced for the
great Intercolonial pigeon shooting match at Ballar at.
A fire occurred in some stables on Charters
Towers, burning Old Wanderer, the racehorse, to death.
It is probable that a spin of 100 yards will take
place in about three weeks, between T. Allen and T.
Lloyd.
The hurdle race between the two Auckland
horses, Bide-a-wee and Sportsman, resulted in the latter
winning easily.
It is rumoured in N.Z. that Sir Modred and
Somnus have been purchased by Harry Prince for some
Melbourne buyers.
A football match, on Saturday, at Wallsend,
between the Newcastle and Wallsend clubs, resulted in
a win for the local team.
Cook’s River v. Glebe football clubs on Satur-
day, at Camperdown, resulted in favour of the Glebe
byl goal and 1 try, to nothing.
Le Loup is reported to be in anything but good
trim, and it is doubtful whether he will be fit for racing
in the early part of the season.
47 trials were decided on the first day of the
Victorian Coursing Club meeting. The hares ran very
badly, and only one got to cover.
Mr. G. Denny has been appointed slip steward,
and Mr. C. Belisario flag steward, for the August meet-
ing of the N.S.W. Coursing Club.
The proposal to erase the clause in the New
Zealand Lotteries and Gaming Bill, which legalises the
totalisator, was rejected by 16 votes to 7.
A protest entered against Young Alfred, the
hurdle racer, through being trained by a disqualified
trainer, was dismissed by the V.R.C. stewards.
Twenty-one entries have been received for the
Spring Handicap of the Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey
Club. The meeting takes place on October 11th.
Hearn, who defeated Albert White in the late
contest for the aquatic championship of New Zealand,
is a probable starter for the Walker Whisky Trophy.
A race in light skiffs took place last Saturday,
between P. Brown and E. Skinner, for £5, which
resulted in an easy win for Skinner by three-quarters of
a mile.
“ Yes,” he said sorrowfully, pressing his hand
to his forehead, “ I know the pedigree well. Headache
by Intoxication, out of Mixed Spirits, grand dam Severe
Thirst.’’
One of the best football matches ever seen in
Molbourr e was played on Saturday between the Geelong
and Carlton clubs, resulting in a victory for Geelong by
5 goals to 2.
The Victorian football team is selected from the
Carlton, Hotham, East Melbourne, Essenden, and
Geelong clubs, and it is quite equal to a team of 30 of
our players.
Mr. C. S. Gaud, the honorary secretary of the
Parramatta Bowing Club, has presented the Club with
a string-test gig, which he purchased from the Mercan-
tile Rowing Club.
Strange, remarks the Licensed Victuallers’
Gazette” that Musket should get all stayers, yet his
grandsire. Longbow, was only a “ miler," and an an-
mistakeable roarer.
A subscription was started in Melbourne for the
English jockey, Barlow, who had his leg broken at the
Steeplechase meeting, and in a very short time over
£lOO was collected.
The great race for the Goodwood Cup was run
on July 28, aud resulted as follows Mr. Child’s
Madame Du Barry 1, Craven’s Nottingham 2, F.
Gretten’s Femandey 3,
“Balmain v. Walleroo was the principal football
match on the Park, bnt as usual, the spectators
encroached on the boundary lines, and play had to be
s opped before the time without any points being
scored on either side. While it lasted, the game was
exciting, hut the encroachment by the spectators will
always be a drawback to a good match being played.
Now that the cricket ground is available for football
matches, we despair of witnessing any more important
matches on the Fork.
The Waterloo Cup, which was decided on Satur-
day, is the most valuable coursing prize of the year in
Victoria, the winner receiving £6OO and a silver collar,
and the runner-up £2OO.
The Newcastle Rowing Clubs are getting crews
ready to compete at the New South Wales Rowing
Association Regatta which is to be held on the Parra-
matta River on October 15.
Robert Hack, of Parramatta, was fined £5,
with £6 15s. costs, for unlawfully receiving money from
William Abbott for the purchase of a ticket for a “ con-
sultation’* on the Parramatta Handicap.
President’s victory in the Selling Hurdle Race
at Flemington was a dear one to Mr. Jellet, who had
to pay £3lO to get his horse back again, and as he did
not back him, he must have lost by winning.
During the past twelve months nearly .£40,000
passed through the hands of the Victoria Racing Club,
viz: £23,000 at the Spring meeting, £5OOO at the Cham-
pian meeting, and about £9OOO at the Autumn meeting.
The Eskdale meet of the hounds was a great
success. The dingo gave a gruelling course for about
six miles, and about 40 horsemen followed. A few mis-
haps occurred, but were unimportant. The run was
greatly enjoyed.
Hunting must be very tame in the Wanganui
(N.Z.) district, for a writer, there signing himself
“ Sportsman,” charges the master of the hounds with
“ coolly trying his pack on a harmless cow, and then on
a strange dog."
The stakes won at the late V.R.C. meeting were
paid over as follow:—Mr. M. Loughlin, £668; Mr. F. C.
Goyder, £500; Mr. T. Jones, £281; Messrs. Robertson
and Wagner, £169; and Mr. E. Jellett, £l5O. The total
sum paid was £1946.
Mr. Hawkins, of Pitt and Campbell streets, has
presented to the Sydney Homing Pigeon Society a
handsome silver Cup, to be competed for in three
events, the scorer of the greatest number of points to
be declared the winner.
The general entrances for the A.J.C. Spring
and Sydney Turf Club meetings are to close at 4 p.m.
on Monday next, the Bth; and on the same day and at
the same hour, the first forfeit for the great Metro-
politan Stakes will fall due.
The Victorian Jockey Club have just settled a
pension of £2OO per annum on the widow of the late R.
C. Bagot. How long it will be before the sportsmen
here have the stamina to do the same ;—and, eheu I how
long before we have a Bagot.
The gold Waltham watch, the trophy given by
Mr. A. Finlayson, for the best amatenr sculler, was
presented on Friday afternoon to the winner, Mr. W.
Q. Brett. Mr. C. W. Gaden, who was second, was pre-
sented with a very handsome locket.
The first competition for the new Championship
of England Challenge Cup, of the value of 200 guineas,
presented by the proprietors of the London Sports-
man, will take place on the Tyne, at Newcastle, about
the latter end of September or the beginning of October
next.
Jerilderie Races, Thursday, 28th July ult:—
Maiden Plate: Pantaloon 1. Hurdle Race: The King
1. The Show Handicap: Ardgower 1, Truganini 2.
Railway Plate: Revenge 1, Lightfoot 2. Hurry Shurry:
Revenge 1, Lightfoot 2. Consolation Stakes: Truga-
nini 1.
The owner of the American trotting horse Von
Moltke has published a challenge to trot his horse
against Boccaccio, mile heats, best three in five, for
£lOO aside, on the Caulfield, Geelong, Sandhurst, or
Ballarat course, the match to take place before the Ist
September.
A highly successful entertainment was given on
last Wednesday evening by Professors Miller and
D’Harconrt and their pupils, at the Sydney Gym-
nasium. The programme consisted of the usual
gymnastic exercises, and most of the performers were
loudly applauded.
The programme for Tattersall’s August meeting
on Saturday, 14th inst., is as follows: —Hurdle Race,
2 miles, 13 entries. Tramway Handicap, J mile, 33
entries. Novel Selling Race, 1 mile, 22 entries. Tatter-
sail’s Two-year-old Stakes, | mile, 28 entries. Loftus
Handicap, 1 mile 3 furlongs, 26 entries.
A meeting of the new Hunt Club took place at
Wallsend on Saturday. No dingoes being procurable,
Dr. Nash acted as drag, and led the hounds across the
racecourse to Plattsburg, doubling and throwing them
off the scent severol times; the hounds collared him
after an exciting ride of several miles.
A match to run 100 yards, for £2O, was made
last Friday night, between T. Allen and W. Macguin-
ness. As both men have performed with credit, a good
contest is expected. Mr. Frank Punch is stake-holder.
The race is to take place on the Association Cricket
Ground on Saturday, 13th inst., at 5 p.m.
HThe celebrated stallion Young Prince of Wales,
which was shipped from N.Z. for Melbourne by the s.s.
Te Anau, died on the voyage. The horse was bred by
Mr. J. Drew, of Merryton, Scotland, and had never
been beaten, either at Home or in the colony. He was
valued at £BOO, and owned by Mr. Russell.
Geelong Winter Steeplechase Meeting, Friday;
—The Trot: Bl"ck Diamond 1, Von Moltke 2, Con-
quering Hero 3. Handicap Hurdle Race: Cumberland
1, New Zealand 2, Cyolops 3. Winter Handicap Flat
Race; Napper Tandy 1, Kohinoor 2, Attaohd 3.
Steeplechase : Collingwood 1, Victor 2, Ranger 3. Sell-
ing Hurdle Race: Nimrod 1. Railway Stakes : Napper
Tandy 1.
Mr. James Perry, the secretary of Tatter-
sail's Club, has been appointed secretary of the Asso-
ciation Cricket Ground. The retiring officer, Mr.
Gibson, deserves the thanks of the cricketing commu-
nity for his untiring exertions in its cause for many
years, and wo are glad to congratulate the Association
for having secured a thoroughly efficient man to fill the
vacant place.
An all-comers race from Mittagong, under the
auspices of the Sydney Homing Pigeon Society, took
place on Thursday last, and resulted in a win for Mr.
John Wright’s Sparrow, who homed in 86m. Mr.
Nixon’s Lady Emma was second, having covered the
distance in 90m. Thirty-two birds started, all finishing
closely. The prizes were a handsome gold medal for
the winner and a silver one for the second bird.
The Victoria Coursing Club meeting was con-
cluded on Saturday, with the following results: —
Waterloo Cup: Winner, Lady Maryborough, with
Bashful Maid as runner-up. Purse: Winner, Rapidity,
with Wandering Jew as runner-up. Plate: Winner,
Florimel, with Chesterfield as runner-up. The atten-
dance on the three days was large, and the sport fair;
the hares were not so strong as usual, and but few got
to cover.
The Evening Staggerer saya that at the
meet on Saturday, at Melbourne, the hounds had a
splendid run, and “a pony, only 13.) hands, jumped
several walls considerably higher than himself, and
outpaced nearly all the horses.” Is that all ? Why not
say, he then took his saddle and bridle off, waltzed into
his stable, swept the place clean, got out his water and
oats, and didn’t try to kick or bite the groom when ad-
miniate:ing his medicine ?
A race for 150 yards, £3 a side, came off on
Anderson’s cricket ground, Moore Park, on Friday
morning last, at an early hour. The peds. were H.
Richards and W. May—two of McArthur and Co.’s em-
ployes. Richards, the taller of the two, was supposed
to be most fancied, and, after a good start, he had the
best of the first 100 yards; but May was not to be
denied, and a good spurt placed him in front, and
landed him the winner by a little more than a yard.
The race in club skiffs for senior members of
the Glebe Rowing Club, on Saturday afternoon, resulted
in a victory for Mr. Ickerson. The starters were
Messrs. W. Bull, A. Ickerson and J. S. Walford. Mr.
Ickersonltook the lead at the start, and maintained the
position, although towards the finish Walford made a
good race and pressed him hard. Bull was nowhere.
The distance was about two miles, the course being
from the Bridge-road pier round a boat off Young’s
wharf and back to the club shed.
The income for the year, of the Melbourne Row-
ing Club was £226, and the expenditure (including a
balance from last year) amounted to £320, leaving a
debit of £94. The assets were set down at £5OO, and
the liabilities at £152. The club property was reported
in good order and condition, and consists of one best
eight, two clinker eights, three outrigger fours, four
pairs, and two sculling boats. A single-streak eight has
been ordered from Messrs. Swaddle and Winship, and is
expected to arrive in December next.
The footballers playing under the Victorian rules
organized a scratch match on the Association Ground,
on Saturday, between the Intercolonial 20 and 25 all-
comers, as a practice for the Intercolonial match, which
takes place on Saturday. The match, which was close
and exciting, resulted in a win for the 20 by 1 goal and
13 behinds to 7 behinds. Great improvement in the
play was shown, especially in the “ small marks” and
“ sneaking,” the late visit of the Melbourne Club being
beneficial to our players in that respect.
At the late Flemington meeting a gentleman
took 50 to 3 about Sir Peter for the Hurdle Race, and
Sussex for the Steeplechase, and on settling day claimed
the money from the bookmaker he thought he had
wagered with, but the latter refused to pay on the
ground that he had not laid the wager. The dispute
was referred to two arbitrators, who decided against
the backer; but in the meantime Mr. L. Cohen, who
laid the wager, heard of the affair, told the backer of
the mistake he had made, and paid him the money.
Notwithstanding that football under the Vic-
torian rules has received a great impetus this season
by the arrangement of a series of Intercolonial matches,
it has not been patronised by footballers generally to
such an extent as to render it a pronounced success.
The exciting contests between the Wallaroo and Uni-
versity Clubs on the Association Ground have done
much to bring the Rugby game under favourable notice,
whereas the crushing defeat of the New South Wales
exponents of the Melbourne game has had an opposite
effect with regard to the latter. If the Melbourne
Club defeated our representatives so easily, what sort
of a “ doing ” are we to get on Saturday from the re-
presentative team from Victoria ?
Randwiok, during the past week, has been
visited at break of day by a good number of persons
who are anxious to get a line for the coming events.
The various trainers are busy getting their stock into
condition. To summarise the morning gallops, the
following appear to be doing best work :—Lord Lisgar,
Sir Oliver, Templar, Sardonyx, Spinningdale, Sweet-
meat, Zulu, Wheatear, Strathearn, Master Avenal,
The Pontiff, Carmen, Monmonth, and Gloucester. A
fair amount of wagering is being done. Trump Toss
being greatly fancied for the Hawkesbury. Sweatmeat
and Martindale are most in favour for the Metropolitan,
and Monmouth and Darebin for the Melbourne Derby.
For the Melbourne Cup the betting is brisk.
Sydney Rowing Club Regatta, Parramatta
Eiyer, Saturday. Junior outriggers : Guinevere. E, P.
Simpson, 1; Gipsey, D. D. Middleton, 2. Maiden Eights ;
Sabrina, H. S. Cowper, C. B. Helin, H. T. Harwoood,
C. A. Edwards, T. B. Broughton, C. T. Arnheim, W.
Tarleton, C. H, Caswell (stroke), 1; Adelphi, M. C.
Murphy, F. W. Sharpe, G. George, J. B. Hassall, T. W.
Higgins, W. H. Banter, C. Donovan, G. D. Best,
(stroke), 2. Senior Outriggers: Sea Breeze, W. G.
Anslow, 1; Novice, W. Qayden, 2,; Witch, J.Thompson,
3. Scratch Eights : C. B. Helm, H. T. Harwood, C. D.
Best, W. H. Banter, D. D. Middleton, E. T. Moppett,
W. H. Capper, H. Rich (stroke), 1; C. A. Edwards, H.
P. Cowper, J. E. Hassall, C. T. Arnheim, C. W. Caswell,
F. Bremer, P. H. Sullivan, W. P. Simpson (stroke), 2.
£1 reward brought the crack carrier pigeon,
Spotted Tom, home (with a broken leg) from Goulburn,
where he was tossed on the 2nd instant, but did not
return to his owner, Mr. Allan. It is stated that the
bird was shot, soon after starting, by a person living in
Goulburn—whom it is hoped the Homing Society will
prosecute—and purchased by the person who claimed
the reward Spotted Tom has flown 4000 miles,
whilst being trained for the eight races in which he has
started, winning the following:—Goulburn, 134 miles,
in 132 minutes (the fastest time on record); gold medal
race, from Picton, 53 miles, in 51 minutes ; and homing
from Springwood, 47 miles, in 43 minutes. In the first
two races, the bird homed in quicker time than stated,
being in the loft on each occasion before the time-keeper
arrived, so that it is impossible to say what wonderful
time he may have made.
The North Shore Rowing Club held its annual
general meeting on Thursday evening. The secretary’s
report was very encouraging, and showed the club to
be in a prosperous state. The club fleet has been aug-
mented by a new racing four-oar string-test gig (built
by Donnelly and Sullivan) and a clinker outrigger (built
in Melbourne), and it now numbers nine boats. There
are now 85 members on the roll. Following are the
office-bearers for the ensuing year:—President, Mr.
V. W. Giblin; vice-presidents, Messrs. Q. M. Pitt,
I. E. Ives, T E. Willis, and Dr. Ward; captain, Mr.
W. J. Weatherill; hon. treasurer, Mr. J. P. Brindley;
hon. secretary, Mr. H. A. Fitzpatrick; committee,
Messrs. W. Dind, W. German, W. M’Leod, J A. Moli-
neaux, C. C. Medcalf, W. R. Sayers, D. D. Middleton,
and A. Phillips; delegates to N.S.W. Rowing Associa-
tion, Messrs. W. J. Weatherill, W. J. M’Leod, and
H. A. Fitzpatrick.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Mr. Lavers, the hon. sec. of the Bourke Rowing
Club, writes to say that that association has been in
existence since August, 1879; that a pair-oared race
was rowed on 14th ult., between married and single, and
resulted in a victory for the Benedicts, who, however,
had the tables turned on them in a four-oared contest
on 20th Daft, the renowned English batsman, has
taken one of the largest hotels in Notts The close
season for game commenced August I.... Myers, the
American championship spurter, was to make his first
public appearance in a race at the Stamford Bridge
grounds on the 25th June At a London police court,
Frank Hart, the American coloured pedestrian, was
charged with assaulting a woman and stealing 25s from
her Wallace Ross, so Hanlan thinks, can beat
Trickett over any distance There has been much un-
pleasantness over the application of the Cornell Uni-
versity four for admission to several of the races at
the Henley regatta. The rowing members of the re-
gatta committee have held aloof, and their conduct, as
also that of the stewards, causes much indignation in
several quarters L. E. Myers, the champion short
distance runner of America, who is at present in Eng.
land, will meet with competitors worthy of his steel
there in H. Evans and W. Snook. Both recently ran a
mile in 4m 275.
Naval Engagements.
A gallant and exciting naval action took place on
Friday afternoon between the Detached Squadron and
the Wallaroo fleet. The battle commenced at 4 30 by
the Brodie sending a shot into the lee scuppers of the
Squadron leading ship. Then the Bimey shortened
sprit sail and made a tack to the west, the Richmond
in full chase, the Birney sending in a broadside which
stretched the Richmond on its beam ends, shivering
its timbers fore and aft. A trim-built felucca, the
Fligg, dodged in and out its formidable opponents, and
broke through the lines. The Birkett then made a shot
with its 9-ton gun, but missed its mark. The fast
sailing of the Wallaroo Fleet helped to out-man oeuvre
the Squadron vessels, who hugged closely together and
confined their tactics to broadsides and torpedoes. The
Hunter-Smith succeeded at length in breaking the
enemy’s lines, and gave the Birkett’s 9-ton gun a chance.
The shot was successful, parting the enemy’s hull
amidships, and securing a victory for the Wallaroo fleet.
The football match between the Squadron and the
Wallaroo Club took place en Friday afternoon on the
Association Ground, and resulted in an easy victory for
the Wallaroos by one goal and four tries to nil. The
play commenced shortly after four, and the Wallaroos
having, as usual, won the toss, had the advantage of
kicking with the wind, and kept the ball well up to the
Squadron goal. H. Fligg secured the first touchdown,
but Birkett missed an easy goal in the place kick.
Then Richmond, by a fine run, secured another, off
which a goal was almost impossible. The Squadron
had to touchdown four times, and just before half-time
Hunter Smith secured another touchdown just at the
Squadron goal, and Birkett, in the kick, was this time
successful, securing the only goal kicked during the
game. The goals were then changed, and it was thought
that the Squadron would show better kicking with the
wind, but though the Wallaroos were not successful as
before, securing only two touchdowns, the Squadron
were unable to put anything to their credit. For the
Wallaroos, Richmond, the two Fliggs, Hunter Smith,
and Brodie distinguished themselves, Richmond doing
wonders in the tacking and ranning. The Squadron
men were evidently not in form, being out-paced by
their well-trained opponents. Lieut. Bimey made souse*
wonderful runs, and brought the house down by running*
the redoubtable Richmond to mother earth. They had.
the best of the Wallaroos in the close scrimmages, and
stopped many well-attempted runs by their low “cellar-
ing.'* The game was not as rough as in the mat h
played by the Squadron against the Melbourne men,
who do not patronise the Rugby game, and who a-
deavoured to play hard to show the roughness of the
unpopular game, and succeeded in disabling a few of
the Squadron men. The costume of the latter was
very picturesque.
G. W. F. Addison, P.M., Maitland.
Students of the literature of our Augustan ago
will have their thoughts carried back into the past
by the name at the head of this article. Wills’s
coffee-house, and the court presided over by one
of the first of our essayists, will recur to their
memories. They will be reminded of him whom
Pope, even in his bitter satire, could not refrain
from complimenting ; of the genial “ Spectator,”
which enlisted every grace of diction in the ser-
vice of a benign and beautiful piety ; of the crea-
tion of that fine old English gentleman, Sir Roger
de Coverley, and of Sir Andrew Freeport and Will
Honeycomb; of a tragedy which is the parallel, on
the stage, to Halifax, in the world of politics; of a,
larrikinism peculiar to the period, but as mean
and hateful as that which we know ; of a time of
ceremonial manners and dress; of the poet,
author, and statesman, who closed a long and
worthy career by inviting his ward to see how a
Christian could die. Joseph Addison is one of the>
men to whom England and the world owe a debt,
as to a benefactor who has taught them. The
connection between him and the subject of this
notice is not one merely of likeness in names.
They are kin in blood : Mr. Addison, the Police
Magistrate of Maitland, is of the family of
the Addison who illumined Queen Anne’s
reign. His relation to English literature is even
more near. His father was the late Lieutenant-
Colonel Addison. P.R.G.S., formerly of the Ennis-
killen Dragoons, the Second Dragoons, the Guards
(Queen’s Bays), and the South American service.
After a considerable period of military life, Col.
Addison eame to London, where he joined the
Dramatic Authors’ Society, and produced thirty-
three pieces—operas, dramas, and farces—in
London, and half-a-dozen more in the provinces.
He edited the Brussels Gazette ; he produced
a successful play in French ; he wrote several of
our most popular songs; he was a regular con-
tributor to Bentley’s Miscellany, Ains-
worth’s Magazine, the New Monthly
Magazine, Chambers’ Journal, and to
some other periodicals. He also acted
for a time as special correspondent to two London
papers, and was, at the period of his death, in
1876, a director of the London Steamboat Com-
pany, which he had promoted. Colonel Addison
had a reputation throughout life as a blytb©
companion, and a good-natured humourist of the
old school. With him passed away another link
of the present and the past, for he was 71 when
he died. The father of Colonel Addison was a
prominent Judge in the service of the East India
Company, and was collateral descendant and heir-
at-law of Joseph Addison. Mr. G. W. P. Addi-
son’s grandfather, on the mother’s side, was
Major T. P. Vokes, for upwards of thirty yea* s-
Police Magistrate of Limerick, and whose life s.s>
such is fully pourtrayed fn the popular little wo: k
entitled “ Recollections of an Irish Police Magis-
trate.” Mr. G. W. P. Addison was the elde-t-
-son of his parents, and was born at Manchester in
1831, He spent the early part of his life in Ir e-
land, but subsequently resided on the Continent,
chiefly in Belgium. In 1857 he arrived in this-
colony. Soon after his arrival he received an
appointment in the Department of Lands and
Public Works, which, at that time, was under a
single Minister. It was before the enactment of
the only perfect land-law in the world, and we did
not then derive a huge slice of our revenue from
the public domain. In 1860 Mr. Addison was ap-
pointed a Gold Commissoner, and was placed in
charge of the Upper Clarence goldfield. Subse-
quently he was transferred to Ironback and
Bingera, and finally to the now almost forgotten
Rocky River goldfield. In 1866 the Government
established a new system for the management of
our goldfields. By virtue of that the whole
of the Commissioners, except three, were
dispensed with. The three whose services
were retained were Messrs. Addison, O’Malley
Clarke, and Whittingdale Johnston. These gentle-
men were severally appointed Commiasioners-
in-Charge of the Northern, Southern, and Western
districts. Three years later, the office of salaried
commissioner was altogether abolished, the duties
being transferred, with the new title of Warden,
to the several Police Magistrates. Mr. Addison’s
retention in 1866 was an indication of the esteem
in which his official superiors held him, and his
services were now utilised in a new capacity.
After the disappearance of his Commissioner’s
office he was appointed Police Magistrate for
Tenterfield (with Inverell and Glen Lines to visit).
He remained at Tenterfield till the death of the
late Mr. James Smith created a vacancy in the
police magistracy of Maitland, and in 1875 the
Robertson Ministry chose Mr. Addison to fill it.
The post involves attendance at West Maitland
twice a week, at East Maitland three times
a week, and at Morpth once a week; besides
attendance at Maitland gaol as visiting justice,
the local insolvency work, etc. Mr. Addison is a
widower, his wife having died recently, and he has
several children living. He is a trustee of the
East Maitland branch of the Savings Bank of
New South Wales, and is a member of the Church
of England. In the original appointment of Mr,
Addison, and in his subsequent promotions,
every step gained has been deserved by merit,
and _ that merit was recognised not alone by
Ministers, but the people among whom Mr.
Addison exercised his funetions. On the occasion,
of his leaving every goldfield upon which he was
stationed, he had received oomplimentary ad-
dresses and testimonials, and when he came to
Maitland, similar recognitions of his worth were
prepared and subscribed for, and sent after him.
He is unremitting in attention to his duties ; the
most cordial relations prevail between himself and
the unpaid magistracy with whom he is brought
in contact; he is well versed in the law, stern and
resolute on the bench, earnest in reproof of mis-
doing, but prudent and merciful where it is
possible to be lenient. In a word, he discharges tho
responsible duties resting upon him honorably to
his name and lineage, and to the Government
whose judicial office he represents. Mr. Addison
has inherited some, at least, of the genial humour
of his father, and we have heard it whispered, of
his literary skill also. But a Civil Servant is not
quite free to use his pen except on official foolscap
on official subjects, and Mr. Addison’s literary
work, if it exists, has been undertaken for private
amusement solely.


Business Announcements
I HAVE this day commenced business as a
Stock and Share Broker, and shall be happy to
undertake any commissions either for the sale or pnr*
cha e of shares that may be entrusted to me.
JOHN E. JONES.
Eeferences :
Hon. S. D. Gordon, M.L.C.
Hon. E. Flood, M.L.C.
Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
Eichard Jones, Esq.
Office: 77 Pitt-street.
JJAYID M ‘ C A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLES AND HAENESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Eoyal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Eobinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loft us,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles at the
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMAEKET.
G. CHUECHWOOD
147 YOEK STEEET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPOETEE AND MANUFACTUEEE OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SHEET HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per
680,000 AMEEICAN SKEWEES,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
N O W LAND’S
LEAVE
GUNNEDAH every THUESDAY for GOODOOGA.
QUNNEDAH every TUESDAY and SATUEDAY for
COONABAEABRAN.
GUNNEDAH DAILY for NAERABEI.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY, THURSDAY, and
SATUEDAY for WEE WAA, PILLIGA, WAL.
6ETT, MILLIE, and MOREE.
QUNNEDAH every TUESDAY and SATUEDAY for
MUNGINDIE, Queensland Border.
GUNNEDAH every TUESDAY for ST. GEORGE,
Queensland.
O H N MURPHY,
(Late J. Murpht A Son)
IMPOETEE OP
GLASS (all sizes cut White and Red Lead
to order) Turpentine
Plate Saw and Boiled Oils
Sheet Brush ware
Stained Kerosene Oil
Ornamental Colours for House and
Cathedral Coach painters, plaa-
Hammered (flat and terers, Ac.
rolled) Varnishes
Paperhangers' Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
IyrTTET) PAINT, READY FOE USE, ANT SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STEEET WEST.
HA. ABBOTT.
• BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER,
106 KING STEEET, SYDNEY.
(FIVE DOOES FROM PITT STREET).
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices.
ter A TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
EA N D F. W. MASON,
• DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AGENTS.
All matters carried out promptly. Plans prepared.
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STEEET (near King-st.)
Tailors, Drapers, fto.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, Qeorge-street.
OPENING NEW GOODS
for
WINTER SEASON
EVERY DAY DURING THIS MONTH.
FIRST GENERAL SHOW
of
NOVELTIES
in
FANCY DRESSES
FOR THE WINTER SEASON.
AN IMMENSE VARIETY TO CHOOSE FROM.
CAMBRIAN HOMESPUN
INDRTS CLOTH
ANGOLA CASIMERE
JERSEY CLOTH
VALPARAISO CLOTH
FRENCH CASHMERE
DOVER HOMESPUN
ELASTIC BIEQE
KASGHER CASHMERE
STOCKINGETTE
AND A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF OTHER
FABRICS.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
MILLINERY.—We have opened 3
cases of very CHOICE MILLIN-
ERY, something quite new and
handsome, direct from the leading
houses in London and Paris.
THOMPSON AND GILES. _
SILK DEPARTMENT. BLACK
SILK, Rich Velvety Black, 22 inch
to 24 inch wide, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid,
4e 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. Extraor-
dinary value. Patterns post free.
BLACK SATIN DAMASK, BLACK
BROCADES, BLACK FIGURED
SILKS, in a variety of new patterns.
BLACK SATIN DE LYON, at to 24
inches wide, 3s lid, 4s lid, 5s lid,
6s lid, 7s 6d. These are now much
worn, and strongly recommended
for wear, and first-class value.
BLACK VELVETEENS
NAUCUNIUM, guaranteed fast hlack,
every yard stamped on back.
BLACK SATINS for DRESSES, 22
inches and 24 inches wide, 3s 6d,
3s lid, 4s fid, 5s 6d, 6s fid. These
are light and soft, and considerably
under usual prices. STRIPED
SILK VELVETS. PLUSHES in
evexy shade of colour. Embossed
and Brocaded SILK VELVETS,
Floral Designs, Ac.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
LACE DEPARTMENT.—We have
OPENED a LARGE ASSORT-
MENT of all descriptions of
LACES in every make, real and
imitation. Embroidered Trimmings,
Ruffling, Madeira Work, Ladies’
Cuffs, Collarettes Sets, Spanish
Lace Ties in Black and Ecru,
Spanish Lace by the yard in every
width.
THOMPSON AND GILES. „ _
SHEETINGS we always get FREE
FROM DRESS, so that there will
be no deception after they are
washed. Ladies will find our
Sheetings good value and standard
makes. Prices: 72-inch, rom lOd
to Is lid; 80-inch, Is to 2s 2d; 90-
inch, Is fid to 2s fid ; 190-inch, 2s 2d
to 3s. American, Denison House,
A Horrocks’ CALICOES, TOILET
QUILTS, from If to 3f long, at all
prices. Coloured ALHAMBRA
QUILTS, 2f long. 3s fid. TOILET
COVERS at all prices and sizes, by
the yard, 27 and 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES. „
TABLE LINEN and HOUSEHOLD
DEPARTMENT.—It has always
been our study to import goods of
this class of thoroughly genuine
character. By this means we have,
year after year, increased our Sale
of FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY. We
are now showing a very nice ship
ment of of DAMASK CLOTH and
NAPKINS, both Double and Single
Damask. These goods we have in
every size, and at prices unequalled
for cheapness and value in the
colony. We commence our DA-
MASK CLOTHS from 3s lid to
425; 6-8 NAPKINS, 4s 6d to 12s 6d;
3-4 NAPKINS, from 7s 6d to
29s 6d; DAMASK DOYLEYS,
round or square, all prices. SLIP
DAMASK, 5-8 and 3-4 wide : UN-
BLEACHED TABLE LINEN,
from Is 9d to 2s 6d; BEST IRISH
SHEETINGS, all widths; IRISH
PILLOW LINEN, 40, 45, 54 inches
wide ; WHITE TURKISH
TOWELS, from 12s 6d to 86s, ac
cording to size; BROWN TURK
ISH TOWELS, GLASS CLOTHS
TEA CLOTHS, KNIFE CLOTHS,
TURKISH DUSTERS, RUSSIA
CRASH, PINAFORE DIAPERS,
CLOUTING DIAPERS, MANG
LING CLOTH, made expressly
27, 30, 33, 36 inches wide.
THOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
ICTOEIA VAENISH COMPANY
ALEX. BOETHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brush ware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Boom and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEuRGE-STREET. SYDNEY.
OALCLIFF COAL
When first sold in Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOR THE TON—224olb
net, not onlv in view of the foreseen reduction in price ol
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, honesl and punctual dealingi
have gained it a fair trial a-sd a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BRICK
KILNS, LIME-BURNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, ROASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineer*
well know, 'filers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by us g it; and all classes declare that when they
get used toi .smanagement they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A DE-
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOR SMALL COAL to BANS
NEWCASTLE COAL FIRES.
1 ton—224olb. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened ■)
17s. Ditto single ditto > Coalcllff.
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened I Newcastle.
225. Ditto single ditto j
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, *c., at current price.
B BLACK,
247 George-street.
Tailors, Drapers, fro.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Ladies and Child-
ren furnished with illustra-
tions and directions for mat-
ing np. Sold at prices rang-
— ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OP
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free Catalogue of Fashions, 3d.
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
JJ AYE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to he addressed to
“ ELISE,”
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
66 TT IS A WELL-KNOWN FACT” THAT
JL for Household or Family Drapery “ Edward
Hordern’s" Old-Established and Well-known Empo-
porium on the Brickfield H ' has “No Rival,’* either
for Value, Variety, or Extent of Stock.
NEW and BEAUTIFUL GOODS opening opt
every day.
NO BRANCH HOUSES ANYWHERE.
Business Announcements
[I.EOAL.J
HOETER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
> SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
TT EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STREET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
£JHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
G*od packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
IIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, sueh firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Aucher, Ac.
American Organs by the Best Maters,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
ORSE-CLIPPING MACHINES
SHARPENED, ss. each, y
R. HELLYER,
88 ELIZABETH STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
fuaranteed to Cut equal to new, or no charge made.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work,
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwaehing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.
Tailoxt, Drapers, fco.
gPEING REQUISITES.
JOHN B. YOUDALE.
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S GARMENTS MADE
TO ORDER.
We can please you in DRESS MATERIALS.
We can also please you in DRESSMAKING.
CHECKED and PLAIN SA'EENS sow opening.
PLAIN and FANCY CAMBRICS now opening.
NEW SPRING MILLINERY now opening.
CASHMERE DOLMANS MADE TO ORDER,
Prices 355, 455, 555, 635.
A GRAND LOT OP SILK NETTED FICHUS,
From 3s 6d to 255.
A New and Varied Stock of Frillings, Fringes, Tassals
and Girdles, Laces, Hosiery, Corsets, and
Satin Parachutes.
In all DRAPERY GOODS, including Millinery, Man-
chester, and Dressmaking, we can promise to serve yon
well. . _ _
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just helow Liverpool-street.
I ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHE UNI
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, GEOEGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LAEGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTEENS,
DIEECT from the MANUFACTUEEES.
F AS AION ABLE
and
FIEST-CLASS GAEMENTS
TO OEDEE.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
B
LANKETS. BLANKETS.
•* FIEST SHIPMENT OF THE SEASON”
now opened at
EDWARD HORDERN’S,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (ONLY).
The BEST VALUE ever received into the Austra-
lian market. SNOW WHITE, FULL SIZES, and
EXTRA HEAVY. Well worth inspecting.
“ Competition defied."
MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOREST'S
Perfect Pitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York.
Full directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is. ; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS,
87 Kino Street, Stdnet (two doors from Oeorge-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
G
80. L. LINEKER,
HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOR,
S BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATE
CUTTER TO E. MTLLETT,
Begs to inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work-
manship, &e., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
N.B.—TWO DOORS PROM GEORGE STREET.
R.C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHENT,
127 KING STREET,
Cannot Cannot Cannot
be be be
Excelled Excelled Excelled
for
STYLE, QUALITY, and FASHION.
To effectually stop the extortion that has been prac-
tised in the way of clothing R. C. H. is making from
pure West of England and Scotch Tweeds.
In Five-button sac pattern suits, to Order, 70s.
Canadian Tweed Suits, to Order, 655.
Homespun Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
West of England, Tweed Suits, to Order, 70s.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
West of England Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
Scotch Tweed Trousers, to Order, 16s 6d.
Bliss’s Tweed Trousers, to Order 16s 6d.
N.B.—Patterns, with self-measurement system, sent
post free to all parts of the colony.
Note the Address—
-127 KING STREET.
&
%
if*
ft
a
n
PT3
$
ft
Si
1
SA,
m
mm
Sfc
-f*
A


Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni cater:
OP PITT-STREET have muc
nouncing to the public, that to remo'
want of space to accommodate their
Luncheon hour, they have convert
Banqueting Hail into an additional
which is now open, and where ever
directed to visitors patronising this i
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior
is under the management of a nrst-cli
branch of Catering undertaken, and
staff of experienced and polite waiter
Through continued misrepresentat
beg to mention that they are not in a
with any other person, or persons, in
SAMUEL PACK
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jatering (
315 GEORGE STRE
(late Harris' Caf4, opposite Peape
A superior CAFE and RESTAURAb
REFRESHMENT ROOMS fo
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ES
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cake
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest dei
GUARANTEED that no dangerous
or ingredient of any kind injurious to
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and mauagemen
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, P
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demom
Civil and attentive waiters always i
(J HA S. R. g
MANAGER.
OLEY’S NATIONS
BRIDGE STREET
(Opposite Bulletin Oil
R. W. FOLEY, PROPRI
BOARD AND RESIDE
Wines and Spirits of the ohoio
BILLIARDS.
HOTEL DE FRA
78 * 80 CASTLEREAG
Opposite Thbateb Ro
Hotels.
Hotels, &o
!
c
W. 808
MARKET STRE
FOE FIEST-CLASS WINES,
BEEES.
R
OBEET BUT C ]
(Late William Lc
WINE AND SPIEIT ME
531 GEOEGE STE
OPPOSITE TOWN HALI
Couktbt Orders Ehckivk Pr<
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUAI
AND CASE.
AGENT—O- E OEGM
BEIDGE STREET CH
C
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON bees t
that owing to the increasing dema
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATEI
Althongh the principal business
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Qnay, will be reta
WINES IN LARGE BULK an
TRADE.
«T Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of thi
io act in conjunction with Mr
Sydney, ho feels confident that, w
the above-named two experien
favours will be attended to with 1
tnde.
R
OYAL EXCHANGE D:
KING & GEORGE SI
A. A. WEBB,
late caterer to H.R.H. the Prince
PROPRIETOR OF THE AI
Begs to intimate that he is
THE BEST TABLE D’HOTI
From 12 to 3 p.m. foj
The best INDIAN CURRY, by i
the premises. Suppers ready, hot
12 p.m. Separate room for lad
made for BALLS, PICNICS, and
reasonable terms. Rooms vacant
Your patronage is respectfully sc
A. A. WEI
ROYAL EXCHANGE DIN
King and George street
THE
TAEPING Ml
This celebrated TEA is com
UNCOLOURED T
and is made up into 11b and half lb
Hotels, fro.
OLD0 LD
EXHIBITION HOTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
E
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
jjjISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4b per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B. —Cockburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EVENING.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
ThePurestStimulant
WORV-2
Tho BEST ALE and STO
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEi
MEECHAN'
The Name of M. MOBB &"CO.
I* vn every ctuuum. t,o ■...
HONESTY IS THE B]
iOEW,
ORN.E
mm
m
a o
It is of the utmost importance t
bottle should be carefully compare
are being imported into New So
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bever
LOBNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will fine
least 10 per cent, in favour of L
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,"AND
AGENTS.
R
OSS AND
(Late Collins and £<
SEATED W
AND
COEDIAL MANUFAC
438 HAEEIS STEEE
First Prize, International Exl
for Soda Water
Soda Water, Tonic Water, Lem
Ginger Beer, &
COKDIALS OF ALL
The Trade supplied with prompt
NOTE THE ADDEI
EOSS AND C
438 HAEEIS STEEET,
JJI MAE T I N
AUSTEALIAN WINE M
AND BEEE BOTI
105 PITT STEEI
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s i
jr.nmiy wrwi
UNIPEE TEEE GIN.
celebrated Dutch Gin may now be obtained cf
storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. Ore
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma»
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
7 s
sS
xA
p
rd
m
f=)
i
<n
o
9
i
Wholesale Agent—CHAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOPEEIOE to SCHNAPPS, at tho price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAY OUR.
r is not the clearness or conditb
Ale that preserves this bran<
mation. Common hitter crude beei
bat no other brand has the same no
ter, the fulness on the palate, an
? [utilities of the Bull Dog Ale. C'
ore cautioned against traders win
extra profit represent the common
equal in quality to the Bull Deg, .
CO., Sole Agents,
o_ nr\ fa Ala
■JJNION LOAN AND DISCOU
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE BTREI
3 doors from A. Hordern ai
Hours—9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PER!
security, payable by instalments, as f
£lO by weekly instalments of
16
20
25
30
50
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE
To borrowers not able to transact bi
day, the offices will be open Monday a
ings, from 7to 9. .
760 GEORGE STREET, flri
3 doors from A. Hordern ai


“THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Auckland society journal thinks Maggie
Knight will develope into a “star” before long. Un-
doubtedly she is a good stock actress De Lias, of
A net land, who can’t stand “ dead-heads,” gave free
cn,rej to the “Pinafore” youngsters daring Carden's
enragement, and actually gave a column ad. to the
local journals on the production Simonson's Opera
Co -ipany, owing to baa weather, opened to a poor house
at I ivercargill, N.Z. Subsequently business improved.
Ha! ha! J. P. West is fetching Aucklanders in
the villain parts “Hazel Kirke” is now being played
at. two New York houses Val Vose lately left New
Y. ik for England, intending to return shortly.
Chizzola is manager for Salviui Clara DeVere joined
the Soldene Company in Virginia, Nevada. On Sol-
dene’s return to England, it is said Miss Do Vere will
accompany her Tilly Andrews is back again at the
Baldwin, San Francisco, after doing the back blocks
there The Australian Mammoths are still travelling
in England under Gilbert Sarony’s management. A
contemporary tells us they continue to do good “ biz."
Cole’s Circus had a real good time in ’Frisco
“iEsthetica" is the title of a new comic opera, tho
libretto by C. F. Pigdin and an English author. Five
American composers are to famish the music The
project has been broached in London to have Messrs.
M’Cullough, Booth, and Irving appear there in " Julius
Caesar." After playing “ Virginias," M'Callongh
appeared in “ Othello " and “ Hamlet," but was not a
success. On some occasions there was not more than
£2O in the house On the second representation of
the “Pirates" at Christchurch, N.Z, by Towle’s
Amateur Company, Cary had an injunction served tor-
lidding the introduction of the policeman’s song
Jennie Nye, while one evening playing Columbine in
the Lydia Uowarde Midwinter Pantomime at Christ-
churoh, injured her foot so severely as to require to be
carried off the stage. One of the local prints says she,
however, showed her indomitable courage by going
through the business of the piece, in spite of the pain
from which she was evidently suffering; and the
audience proved their appreciation of her plnok by
rounds o? applause every time she appeared A youth
tamed out the gas at a Leeds theatre as the people were
leaving. A panic ensued, 20 persons being injured
Pollard's “ Pinafore ’’ kids were treated to an evening
party in Auckland the other week Lyons’ Tourist
Party opened to a good house at Dunedin. Buchan
Hepburn is the agent in advance Some of the plate
glass mirrors in the new Grind Opera House in Paris
are 45!t by 52tt, equal to 23-4) square feet of unbroken
glass Eighteen of them would cover an acre The
Rev. A B. Fitehett, of Dunodin, in an address on
*• Shakespeare, as a Moralist," asserted that Shakes-
peare was, in Lis own way, a teacher of righteousness;
a;.d ( bat, when rightly read, his tragedies were the best
moral works after the Bible Cary’s N.Z. “ Pirates of
Pouz >nce ” are doing good “biz ” at Christchurch, bat
the opera itself is not liked so well as “Pinafore."
Miss Leaf has strengthened a rather weak oast. Cary
draw tho £6OO the copyright of the “ Pirates " cost him
at Wellington, and something towards his expenses
as well The Victoria Loftas Blondes are at
Tony Pastor’s Theatre, New York. Good “ biz.”
Walter Reynolds and the Pollards have crossed swords
in Auckland, owing, it is said, to breach of agreement
on the part of the latter, and the announced perform-
ano of “ Los Cloches de Comeville ” did not eventuate.
It i reported that after obtaining £165 from Mr. Bey-
no. is for return passages to Melbourne via the Blnff on
the understanding that the Company would play down
tho coast, Pollard refused to carry out his agreement,
and intends coming on to Sydney. Of course Walter
will see that he does not —at present. Some of the
girls have been down with scarlet fever and diphtheria,
contracted at the Thames goldfields, and one of them
is said to be dying. Wig shaking over the matter will
take place, and it is expected that some spicy revela-
tions, which will throw a good deal of light on the
management of juvenile companies, and probably lead
to the enactment of prohibitory legislation in all the
efiomes on the subject, will be the upshot. The
“ perfesh " and a great many of the public hope so
Fred. Marshall opens at Auckland about the Bth
August in “ Blow for Blow,” supported by the present
company. It ia said he will receive £lOO a week in
Auckland, “ and undoubtedly the biggest star illumi-
nating the Southern theatrical world." Hurrah /
The rumour that Henry Irving projects a visit to N.Z.
for his health's sake is regarded as bosh by the Fakehas.
The climax has been reached. The “little man
from America,” J. J. Wallace actually played (I)
“ Hamlet” at his "ben.” in Dunedin (N.Z.) the other
week. Among those who assisted in the mutilation
were such brilliant artistes as Theo. Hamilton, E. J.
Kennedy, Mowry, Alexander, Bessie Vivian, and the
Misses Arethusa and Lily May. Shakespeare will
fiure'y rise from his grave now I Billy Wilson, Hosea
Easton, and two or three other “ burnt oorkists," have
been giving entertainments in the Canterqury (N.Z.)
province, the company designating themselves the
Georgia Minstrels The N. Y. Meecdbt speaks of
Louise Pomeroy’s success in Australia with enormous
financial results The Hungarian painter, Zichy, sent
Liszt a drawing the other day representing the role of
music in the life of man from the cradle to the grave.
Liszt wrote his acknowledgement of the present:
“Illustrious painter 1 You have me a magnificent present.
* Music from cradle to the grave’ is a marvellous sym-
phony. I will try to note it, and I will dedicate the work
to you." So that we may expect a new work by Liszt
Our Auckland correspondent writes on 25th July:—
By the production of " It is Never too late to Mend,"
the Carden Company have succeeded in drawing pay-
able houses. The cast is a good one. Arthur Elliott
shows to undoubted advantage as George Fielding, the
young English yeoman; Carden’s Tom Robinson is a
fairly good portraiture, while Gerald Dillon as the
Australian aboriginal Jacky-Jacky is undeniably funny.
O’Brien is entitled to a word of praise for his imper-
sonation of the chaplain, J. P. West makes a good Mr.
Hawes, and Jenny Watt-Tanner does all that is re-
quired of her in the part of Susan. The scenery and
mounting of the piece is better than we are accustomed
to, and naturally has something to do with the success
of the representation A New Zealander puffing up
Cary’s “ Pirates ” Co. says Mdlle. Mnrielle’s (what a
nice name) Mabel is far superior to anything he has
seen in Sydney or Melbourne. She has fairly astounded
everyone. Bring her along this way Cary, and give the
New South Welshmen a treat. We want to be as-
tounded Leake tours New Zealand It is said under
the wing of Theo. Hamilton and J. S. Willis. By the
way New York papers state that Theo. is expected home
shortly A rumour is abroad that a certain entre-
preneur in the Southern part of N.Z. is about to file his
shovel. Who can it be? Bandmann and Company
are again performing at Wellington, N.Z A number
of Napier amateurs gave Lieut. Herman a benefit before
he left that small town We read that the Thornton
family and a number of amateurs produced “The
Octoroon” at Tanranga, N.Z., but it was not a success,
“ many of the amateurs being very indistinct in their
utterances." The business at the Princess Theatre,
N.Z., under Willis and Theo. Hamilton, has been very
poor lately, the company being on halt salaries. And
yet the ad. states J. J. Wallace has been engaged for
another season Dick Kohler, with his musical in-
struments and waxworks, succeeded in gathering a few
dollars in Dunedin St. Leon’s circus, which was
advertised to play at Pooncara the other evening, did'
not put in an appearance, the river being unfordable.
They played at Mollara, three miles down, the admis-
sion being 10s and 7s 6d respectively Mr. P. P.
Agnew’s Australian drama, “ True to the Last,” was
produced by the Southern Queensland Club, at Been-
leigh, on the 23rd ult., and was, a correspondent assures
us, a success. The title is, however, rather suggestive
of the shoe-shop, though the piece itself might he a
very brilliant production. “ The Quiet Family ” and a
musical melange succeeded the original drama, and the
audience appeared to like the whole thing very much.
We ought to have mentioned last week that a nice
little concert took place at Darlinghurst Hall, on
Thursday, the 14th July. The attendance was fair, and
so were the cantatrices. Gordon Barker conjured, and
Madelles. Murray and Meyers warbled. We have not
heard for whose aid the affair was; bat we hope, in any
case, that the beneflifiare benefited Miss Emma
Waugenheim, up North, is doing a stroke. Of her
Mabel, in “ The Pirates," the W. B. and Burnett News
(Maryborough, Q.), says : “Miss Wangenhein had in
Mabel a character invested more with the attributes of
high-class opera than are the heroines of the comic
operas in which she has hitherto appeared in Mary-
borough. That she rendered the part with ease and
the precision of an educated musician, critic could
deny. An extremely difficult composition * Poor
Wandering One,’ set to raise time, won a double
encore, and in fact brought down the applause of the
house in the middle of the passage." Mr. Bichard A.
Proctor is lecturing in Now York Signor Chizzola is
now manager for Signor Salvini Mr. Fred. Lyster is
manager for tho Lingards Herr Bandmann
opened at Wellington on July 16th “The Lady
of the Lake ’’ was produced at the Princess’s Theatre,
Dunedin, and from what we can gather, it must have
been the most successful frost since Lotti Wilmot
enacted the heroine in “ Bag Pair." J. J. Wallace and
Theo. Hamilton were the Fitzjames and Boderio Dhu.
Grattan Biggs opened at the Theatre Boyal, Bris-
bane, on August Ist Professor Pepper closed his first
series of lectures at Brisbane on Juiy 31st, to a large
house Mr. Duff has engaged Signor Bellgreeno Verdi
for his Wilhehnj combination Messrs. Gordon
Baker, Andrews, Dixon, and others recently gave an
entertainment at the Parramatta Lunatic Asylum. Tho
madmen were much impressed Lnsoombe Searell
writes from America: “ This country is good enough
for me. No more colonies for Luscombe." The charm
seems to lie in such notices as this, from the 'Frisco
NEW3LETrF.il —“ Trivoli.—lt is pleasant to be able to
announce that Mr. Luscombe Searell, the talented
composer of the “ Fakir of Travancore,” has completed
arrangements with the management of this charming
operatic family resort, and will take charge as leader of
th 3 orchestra at least for six months to come. He is
an excellent musician, a modest gentleman, and a very
capable conductor."
SUNDRY SHOWS.
For many reasons, uneasy lies the head of a
dramatic critic. The universal spreader-on of oleomar-
garine may be happy, for tho simple reason that he can
(and nearly always does) write his critiques without
going to the show at all. Not having to start out with
an ill-digested dinner playing castanets in his inside, he
is never dispeptio; feeding all-comers with the butter
of adulation, his life is always safe; scarcely ever
getting any nearer the theatre than the public-house
fire, he is never bored; never sitting a play out, and,
therefore, not compelled to return homewards in
draughty cabs and freezing ferries, he is never rheu-
matic. His Hues are cast ia pleasant places, and he is
happy. Actresses ask him to drink tea; actors ask him
to drink whisky. He is "old followed "by Hamlets,
and “ dear boyed” by low comedians. With him, howl-
ing failures are "intelligent impersonations "-drivel-
ling and inane melodramas, “delightful and invigorating
productions;” a woman who drifts about the boards,
and intones after the prompter, is "a lady who is
rapidly attaining a foremost rank in her profession;" a
man who speaks his lines with the emphasis of a magpje
on a hay-rick, is “ a gentleman whose vast histrionic
talents are daily becoming generally recognised." This
kind of thing has gone on for so long that the profession
have got to regard it as a right. Feed them with this
“ slobber"—lubricate them with this critical cart-grease
(and it is wonderful how much of it a bad actor can
take in !)—and you are as popular as a successful pugilist,
or a suspended ritualist divine. Withhold it, however,
and substitute honest and fearless comment, and you
are scowled at by public-house “ wall-flowers," and
“ floated ” cellar-flappors of both sexes. In short, be a
fawner, and you are adored: be a critic, and you are
detested,
• * *
The reason we make these remarks is because
they (are necessary. When we have had a chance of
praising any performance, we have done so. -And when
we have commended we have given our reasons for
doing so. In a like manner, whore we have censured,
we have abundantly offered out readers every possible
explanation for so doing. Yet, though we have pleased
the public, we have not, by any means, delighted a cer-
tain section of the theatrical profession. We can, how-
ever, bear this. We may, it is true, weep in private,
but with the world we shall gleam with the sunshine of
serenity. And, this little matter being satisfactorily
disposed of, we shall now proceed to coruscate.
« « «
A little highly interesting item, in verse, to be-
gin with, Biddle us this, now:—
There jnst has reached us a report.
That for a “ wedding march ’’ two are on j
The bride is
The bride-groom ——
* * * *
Of “ The Crushed Tragedian,” which was, on
Saturday, produced at the Opera House, we have, of
course, something to say. And something good, too,
we hope. Of the play itself, we will at once admit that
it is very funny. The dialogue all through is a series
of startling literarj crackers. So far as tho repartee is
concerned, “ The Crushed Tragedian ” is the perfection
of comedy writing. With regard, however, to plot and
situations, it is—well, not the perfection of comedy
writing. Coming immediately after “ Diplomacy,” with
its masterly story, artistic groupings, and admirable
pathos, Mr. Reeve's new venture is at a disadvantage.
In the former, you could cry oftener than you could
laugh; in the latter, you can only cry with laughing.
The pit was hoarse with roaring after the first act; the
stalls grew hysterical every time Pitzaltamont appeared,
and throughout the entire performance, the “ boxes ”
were one large semi-circular chuckle. Men in the pit,
who were sacking oranges when the play began, coughed
so, in their merriment, that the stall-ites were so bom-
barded with pips that all the bald men pnt their
hats on, and one gentleman upstairs grew so apoplectic
in his cachinnations, that he was only saved from an
untimely end by the great Dodge banging him in the
small of his back with his cash-bag. People who had
come to smile remained to roar ; and we have it on the
authority of the management, that after the perfor-
mance was over and the audience hod dispersed, the
decayed tragedian who performs the broom solo daily,
picked up enough tape, buttons, and piping cord, to
start a small draper’s shop in the suburbs.
# # *
The Opera House, as now fixed by Mr. Wilson, is
a delightful little theatre. Entirely free from the perfume
of the departed Africans, and adorned with shrubs and
flowers, it is a very bower of bliss. There are carpets on
the stairs, and carpsts in the passages. The rig of the
ushers is elaborate, and the display of snowy cuff on
part of the occupants of the money-boxes astonishing.
The audience, too, was a brilliant one, and—but you
shall have it in a jingle :
Mr. Wybert Reeve’s Fitzaltimont is, for many
reasons, a remarkable impersonation. He was all
through at his very best, and the very best of Mr.
Reeve is very good indeed. If there was a fault in his
reading, it was, perhaps, a tendency, at times, to over-
act, and thus render nltra-farcioab a, oh*: which
would, incur opinion, be --uu played
with a studied attention to nat *"9. It must be ad-
mitted, however, that Mr. Reeve made every possible
Soint, and that his " make up ” was, in the highest
egree, artistic. In the hands of an unintelligent perfor-
mer, Pitzaltamont would be an intolerable burlesque;
but as impersonated by Mr. Reeve it is a life picture,
just a little rosily coloured. As a character part, it is
not equal to his Fosoo, but we are inclined to consider
it an improvement upon his Henry Beauclerc. This, as
those who have seen " Diplomacy ” will understand,
is very high praise indeed. And we are truly glad to be
in a position to be able to conscientiously award it.
We like nothing so much as praising people; and if we
could only find ourselves in possession of just
grounds for praising a Town Hall contractor, we should
die happy.
* * *
Tho place of Mr. Titheradge, who has seceded
from Mr. Reeve’s company, has teen filled by Mr. W.
J. Holloway, an actor of the very robust school.
This gentleman was accorded a very flattering reception
by the parterre, and applauded almist incessantly
throughout the piece—even when uttering the most
common place truisms; for, since Mr. Holloway played
the virtuous prompter, many uninspiring platitudes fell
to his share. After a careful study of this gentleman
as Frank Bristowe, we are inclined to the opinion that
we would prefer t* see him in any other part. So far as
our judgment goes, Mr. Holloway (on the first night,
at least,) by no means “ got the hang ’’ of the imper-
sonation. In a word, while he failed to present himself
to us in the person of tho old prompter, he played Mr.
W. J. Holloway very nicely indeed. Being fond of Mr.
W. J., we, of coarse, experience much pleasure in see-
ing him in the part. At the same time, when we have
gazed upon him in this character for a week or so, we
shall net be sorry to see him in something else.
• * •
Mias Annie Mayor had no chance as Mr. Hollo-
way’s—we beg pardon—Mr. Bristowe’s daughter. To
see her in this part after “ Dora” was a very melancholy
spectacle. Not that Miss Mayor was not effec-
tive—for that she always is; but the charac-
ter was a common-place one, and with the exception
of the scone with her brother, has not a good line in
the whole of her part. And even that scene is com-
monplace, being the old worn out business—done to
death in “ Dearer than Life" and other plays by the
same author; but always, nevertheless, being an
incident which goes down with the pit. We have said
sufficient of Miss Mayor, in this journal, to enable our
readers to form an opinion at what standard we have
guaged her histrionic ability; we need, therefore, only
add that what oan be done with the part of Florence
Bristowe she does most artistically, but there is so little
scope for the display of her remarkable talents that we
should have much preferred her to have been “ resting”
rather than to appearing in an impersonation that affords
her no chance whatever of being histrionically effective,
* • •
Miss Annie Taylor (who has “ starred” with Mr.
Holloway) was fanny as Miss Mountcashel.the “ London
star,” and was liberally applauded. Miss Kate Arden ap-
peared once again as an “ old woman," and made a very
praiseworthy Mrs. Qulpiu. Miss Arden is to be con-
gratulated on her re-appearance in a part suited to her
talents. This lady, she never looked the
Countess Zicka in “Diplomacy," made up as the old
lodging-house keeper to the life. In this, compirati vely
unimportant character, she was completely lost her
own identity; in the Zicka she never did. Therefore,
we repeat, we congratulate Miss Arden upon being once
more cast as an “ old woman"—a type of character of
which she is a most excellent representative.
« « »
Mr. Prank Cates played the lover, Ernest Glen-
denning, but the whole thing was too artificial to enable
him to make a hit. There was no depth in the charac-
ter—and most decidedly no novelty in the drawing of
it. In Mr. Cates’s hands, however, Ernest Glendinning
was not the feeble prig which he would have appeared
if impersonated by a less skilful actor. And he was
always a gentleman 1 This is a great matter when a
fellow has to make love continually through four long
acts. You can stand a lot of love-making if it is deli-
cately done, but not when (as occurs in many oases) the
hero roars at his sweetheart like a sea-captain in a white
squall. We can congratulate Mr. Cates, therefore,
upon being effective when he might have been ludicrous
—artistic where he might have been commonplace.
• « •
Mr. Neil O’Brian, as the dissolute brother,
looked very dissolute indeed—his make-up bearing the
stamp of embezzlement from the top of his low-
crowned "billy" to the tip of his broad-toed shoes.
While he was the cash-box plunderer we liked him
well—his acting being natural, and the gin and soda
element very apparent. When he reformed, however,
he became a bore, and we lost onr interest in him from
his very first outburst of virtue. Mr. Prank Forbes,
whose name for some unaccountable reason was left out
of the programme, was most excellent as Mr. Warry,
but the part was far from being one which afforded
scope for the remarkable talents he exhibited in his
long-to-be-remembered impersonation of Baron Stein.
The other characters will receive notice at onr hands at
some future time. It will suffice to say, in this issue,
that they were all painstaking and effective, and all
trotted on comfortably in their several petits bonhommet
de chemin.
• • •
“ The Crushed Tragedian ” should, undoubtedly,
be seen, and we anticipate for the piece a respectable
run. We trust, however, to be afforded the opportunity
of sampling Pinero’s 11 Money Spinner " before the con-
clusion of Mr. Reeve’s engagement at the Opera House.
** * *
We hear, on what should be very good authority
indeed, that Mr. J. C. Williamson intends produoing
“ Patience ” first in Sydney, and as, of course, everyone
in the city, from a legislator to a Chinaman, is anxious
to got a whiff of it, we will treat our readers to an
insight into the libretto, for a glance at which we are
indebted to Mr. Wilson Le Content, Mr. Turner’s
obliging manager. As a literary effort, “ Patience ” is
leagues ahead of “ Pinafore,” and miles in front of
" The Pirates." Its complete success in Australia may,
however, be marred by the fact of its being rather too
local. Still the ingenuity displayed in the songs is of
such a high order that they will doubtless be yowled in
this city, after the production of the opera, with as
maoh persistence as the ballads of Josephine and the
madrigals of her shipmates. At first, however, let us
take the poem that Buntborne recites to the enraptured
maidens, which is about the too-tooist rhyme on record.
Mark!—
After this composition, the following delicious
bit of dialogue occurs :
“ Ang.—How purely fragrant I
Saph. —How earnestly precious!
Duke,— Well, it seems to me to be nonsense.
Saph. —Nonsense, yes, perhaps—but oh, what precious
nonsense I”
« « *
Undoubtedly, however, the gem of the libretto
is the duet betweeen Buntborne and Grosvenor, which
we print entire. If Mr. Williamson thinks this smells
rather too strongly of Piccadilly, doubtless he will em-
ploy some bard out here to re-write it. We know all
the Sydney poets, and we cannot put onr hands upon a
single one who would not cheerfully undertake to im-
prove on Gilbert at a moment’s notice. Here, now, is
the raw material :
“ Bun.—When I go out of door.
Of damozels a score
(All sighing and horning.
And clinging and yearning),
Will follow me as before.
I shall, with cultured taste.
Distinguish gems from paste,
And “ High diddle diddle,”
Will rank as an idyll,
A most intense young man,
A soulful-eyed young man,
An’ultra-poetical, super-oesthetioal.
Out of the way young man.
Both— A most intense young man, See.
0-EOS-—Conceive me if yon can.
An every-day young man:
A commonplace type.
With a stick and a pipe,
And a half-bred black-and-tan.
Who thinks suburban “ hops "
More fun than “ Monday Pops
Who’s fond of his dinner.
And doesn’t get thinner
On bottled beer and chops.
A commonplace young man—
A matter-of fact young man—
A steady and stolid-y, jolly bank-holidiy
Every-day young man 1”
This part is still m >re too delioioudy quite :
“ Bon. — A Japanese young man—
A blue and white young man — _
Francesca de Bimini, miminy, priminy,
Je-ne-sais-quois young man.
Geos. — A Chancery Lane young man—
A Somerset House young m > i
A very delectable, highly respec able.
Threepenny-bus young man 1
Bum.— A pallid and thin young man—
A haggard and lank young man
A greenary-yallery, Qrosvenor Gallery,
Foot-in-the-grave young man 1
Gaos.— A Sewell and Cross young man—
A Howell and James young man—
A pushing young particle—what’s the
next article —
Waterloo House young man!”
And the ensemble—
Bun. Geos,
" Conceive me, if you can. Conceive me, if you can,
A crotchetty, cracked A matter-of-fact young
young man, man.
An ultra-poetical, super- An alphabetical, arithmeti-
msthetical, cal.
Out of the way, young Every-day young man!
man I
« « «
The “ recipe for a heavy dragoon ” is now as
much a household w_>rd in England as FrankateUi’s tip
for stewed tripe. The local gaga here, are perhaps too
plentiful, but the whimsicality of the whole thing is very
grand. It is sung by a Colonel of Dragoons, in “ heavy
marching order.’’ Eaoutet :—
*• If you want a receipt for this soldierlike paragon.
Get at the wealth of the Czar (if you can) —
The family pride of a Spaniard from Arragon—
Force of Mephisto pronouncing a ban —
A smack of Lord Waterford, reckless and rollicky—
Swagger of Roderick, heading his clan—
The keen penetration of Paddington Pollaky—
Grace of an Odalisque on a divan.
The genius strategic of Caesar or Hannibal—
Skill of Sir Garnet in thrashing a cannibal—
Flavour of Hamlet—the Stranger, a touch of him—
L’ttle of Manfred (but not very much of him)—
Beadle of Burlington—Richardson’s Show—
Mr. Micawber and Madame Tussaud !
Take of these elements all that is fusible—
Melt ’em all down in a pipkin or crucible—
Set ’em to simmer and take off the scum.
And a Heavy Dragoon is the residuum I”
♦ * *
The London critics are divided in opinion (as
they always are) as to the music. The Referee praises
(as we do) the book, but considers the score washy.
Vanity Faie, on the other hand, eulogises Mr. Sul-
livan's work, but pronounces the libretto to be rubbish.
We have not heard the score so far. When we do, we
will issue a supplement and—put on a few airs.
* * * *
We understand from Mr. Frank Cates, that he
is endeavouring to make arrangements, at the conclu-
sion of the Cardens’ season at the Queen’s Theatre, to
produce “The Bells," with himself in the r6le of
Matthias, and also, we believe, “ Hamlet ” —Mr. Cates to
enact our melancholy friend. That gentleman being
known to us as an interpreter only of light comedy char-
acters, we cannot, of course, hazard a guess as to
whether the experiment will be successful or not. But
we should not be surprised it it were so. Mr. Cates is
well read, has a capital appearance, and possesses great
intelligence And, after all, he is only following the
example of Mr. Henry Irving, who, it is well-known,
made his first hit as Digby Grant in "The Two Roses,’*
and almost immediately afterwards elecrifled the public
by a powerful and moat masterly rendering of the hero
of Leonold Lewis’s adaptation of Erckman-Chatrian’s
Juif Polonais (The Bella), and subsequently developed
into perhaps the most successful (pecuniarily anyhow)
tragic-actor England has ever known. Mr. Cates, there-
fore, we consider is justified in making the experiment,
and wo shall watch the issue with no small interest;
the more especially as we consider Mr. Cates, in as-
suming the garb of Melpomene, is placed in the posi-
tion of the legendary young bear—all his troubles are
before him.
* * * *
The “Tambour-Major” is, we learn from Mr,
Musgrove.to be run yet another week,and “Olivette" will
be produced on the 14th inst. We regret to state that
Mr. Mervin, the redoubtable Monthabor, has been ill
for some days, and his part was, during h's indisposi-
tion, assumed by Mr. Wallace, while Mr. George Dean
undertook the role of the mercurial Bambini. That
this change was not conducive to the improvement of the
general representation of the opera, can well be
imagined, since while Mr. Wallace (excellent comedian
though he be) neither possesses the physique nor the
voice to effectually impersonate the bluff Drum-Major,
Mr. George Dean, though he went in for a slavish copy
of Mr. Wallace’s Bambini, was very far indeed from
bringing oat the humorous traits of that eccentric
Marquis. And the curious part of it is, that he did
everything, as Bambini, that Mr. Wallace did —even to
counterfeiting his most trifling gesture. Yet, we are
bound to own, that the whole thing was as devoid of
humour as a Parliamentary report, and as much lacking
in originality as a dime novel about a bandit, a ghost, and
a cavern. On Monday, Mr. Mervin resumed his part,
and the working of the opera fell into its old groove
again. “ La Pille Da Tambour-Major " is, undoubtedly,
so far as a spectacular performance is concerned, the
biggest thing yet produced in Sydney, and in addition
to this it possesses many other attractions which com-
mend themselves to all classes of playgoers. The act-
ing of Mr. Harwocd, for instance, is, all through the
piece, burlesque of the very best description, even his
gags, for the most part, being not only free from vul-
garity, but excessively crisp and funny. Gagging is a.
separate art in itself. When practised by performers of
inferior calibre it is offensive in the last degree. Wo
have seen an actor in this city, disgust an andience and
“get the goose ” on a piece in five minutes, by inter-
spersing the author’s lines with intolerable drivel of
a “ local" description, and treating the pit to “ poli-
tical allusions,” the purport of which he himself
evidently didn’t comprehend. Mr. Harwood, however,
is not only never offensive, but always droll, and though,
as a rule, we prefer to listen to “ the author," we can
sit out the “dear Duke’s” witticisms with much com-
placency. # * #
As, perhaps, this is the last word we shall
have to say about the “ Tambour-Major," we oanuot do
less than close in with something about the ladies. Like
Mr. Snevellici, “ we love every one of ’em—the married
ones and the single ones too" —always, be it understood,
in that platonic spirit which should always be (but
rather seldom is) an accompaniment of white hairs and
wrinkled foreheads. For Miss Battle Laveme we have
a fatherly affection ; Miss Nellie Stewart we love with
avuncular warmth; for Miss Minnie Hope we have a
brotherly tenderness —and all the officers live as cousins
in our souls. And so—
Fare ye well, ye merry belles ;
Your tongues' sweet music who’ll forget
Prolific both in songs and “ sells”—
We’ll meet again in, “Olivette.”
* * * *
We regret to hoar that there ia likely to be
trouble between Mr. and Mrs. Carden and their
manager, Mr. Richmond Thatcher. It would seem that
acting according to the letter of his contract with his
principals—which document was drawn up in England,
and which authorised Mr. Thatcher to effect the whole
of their engagements in Australia —that gentleman
signed a contract on their behalf, by the terms of which
they were to appear in conjunction with Mr,
Keogh’s company, on the 2ad of August. Mr. Carden
now writes declining to fulfill the engagement, stating
that he requires a certainty of £SO a week; or 5 per cent.on
the gross receipts for twelve weeks certain—terms which
White tie bedecked there shone that m an,
Whose mind’s so analytic.
To write himself, he proudly can,
A poet and “ art-critic.”
And in the O.P. (circle) box
(We sing with trepidation!),
There gleamed, with nicely barber’d looks,
A legal constellation.
The band was good—and this we’re of
Opinion they’ll be pleased at.
(The leader, though his name is Koff,
Is still not to be sneezed at.)
No loafers, full of beer and slang,
Their way in that show wended:
Dodge told the dead-beats to “ go hang;”
And then the “ list” suspended.
The name was ta’en from off the door
Of many and many a seedy un;
So, outside, too, was heard the roar
Of many a “ Crushed Tragedian."
The house was crammed—in short, we bet.
This play (oh, grammar!) rivals—
(We bar " Diplomasy ”) all yet,
We’ve seen of Reeve’s Reeve-ivals.
“ What a rhyme the poet hath hymned
The writhing maid, lithe-limbed.
Quivering on amaranthine asphodel.
How can he paint her woes.
Knowing, as well he knows.
That all can bo set right with calomel ?
“When from the poet’s plinth
The amorous colocynth
Yearns for the aloe, faint with raptorons thrills.
How can ho hymn their throes,
Knowing, as well he knows.
That they are only uncompounded pills ?
“ Is it, and can it be.
Nature hath this decree.
Nothing poetic in the world shall dwell ?
Or that in all her works
Something poetic lurks.
Even in colocynth and calomel ?
I cannot tell."


“ I have analysed an original packet of Taepmg,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet. —Karl Theodobk Staigkb, analytical
chemist.*'—Ad vr.
■-are, so far as the Queen’s Theatre is concerned, of the
most visionary nature. In England Mr. Carden got £8
per week, in New Zealand £2O, and, in Sydney, he wishes
to snavel £SO. Well, we hope he may get it, but we con-
'■fees we do not think it very likely, since the public
'taste for “ Adel phi" dramas, which are Mr. and Mrs.
'Carden’s ** speciality," is very rapidly on the decline.
We trust, however, the matter will be patched up, and
that when these really clever people arrive here, the
thing will merely amount to a little “ smiles, tears, and
laughter," after which Bichmond will be himself again,
and the world will once more revolve.
* * * *
A gentleman has sent us a letter from Queens-
i land, which, we confess, has touched our hearts. He
informs us that he has “ written a few fair little Aus-
tralian dramas, which ought to take well in Sydney;’’
and he furthermore writes—" I would like to sell them
for a trifle. How could I manage it ? and can yon let
me know the best person to write about the matter, ]
- either in Sydney or Melbourne ?” To this, we ejacu-
late —“ Young man ! pause, ere it be too late. Keep the
melancholy fate of George Darrell in your mind's eye,
and tremble I That great man has also not only written
" a few fair little Australian dramas," but a great many
dark big ones, and in all of which he himself imperso-
nated the hero. And yet where is George? Tossed,
dear Queensland dramatist, upon the billows of the world
—a shudder announcing him in every city, and a groan
of agony following his departure. And could you hope
to cope with George? Never I Therefore, our advice
is—subside. The age for “fair little dramas” of any
fkind has long departed: the age for fair little Colonial
dramas never existed. Nol if you have a bent for
theatrical writing, try your hand on a shadow panto-
mime, or write a dance for a circus elephant. There are
millions in it, but nothing in the "legitimate." As,
however, you ask ns to recommend some person with
whom you might do business, we at once comply with
your request. A line to the managing-director of the
Bomany A. D. Club, c/o Government House, would
• doubtless bring forth fruit, but if you receive no answer
from that gentleman, you may come to the conclusion
—not that he mistrusts the skill of your contribution
to the dramatic literature of the age—but that he is in
all probability busy on a " fair little Colonial drama”
himself.
* * * *
Mademoiselle Andree Navaro, who, some time
since, retired from the stage, and kept a dear little
■ farm, “ far from the madding crowd," informs us that
she has tired of the bliss of sylvan sweetness, and once
again purposes treading the opera bouffe stage. Those
who remember Madame Andrea’s performances, in con-
junction with her sister Solauge, will admit with us
that she is a very accomplished " opera buffer ” indeed,
and she will doubtless secure—in this age of musical
follies —a lucrative engagement almost immediately.
Mademoiselle is well up in Offenbach, has Herv(s at her
fingers’ ends, and can trill tte notes of Lecocq and
Sullivan with immense great ease and superlative effect.
Mdlle. Andrea will doubtless be very warmly welcomed
by her many admirers in Sydney when she appears again
'before them; and we have no doubt that, when engaged
in listening to their plaudits and collaring their bou-
quets, the "little farm she kept,” the pensive cows,
chuckling turkeys, and serious sheep, will melt from
her remembrance like frost before the sunshine. Soon
(and long) may she warble.
* * * *
With pleasure we have known Herr Hugo Alpen
as a good singer, and a better organist; but, until we
visited his Devonshire-st. concert, on Friday night, we
never knew he was a second Montgomery at recitations.
Herr Alpen spoke “ The Bridge of Sighs," and with such
telling effect that, immediately he finished, four men
out and took to drink, 27 ladies drowned them-
selves in Shea’s Creek, and 114 boys trooped off and
broke every window in Surry Hills. Hugo—if you go
and do these things some more, there’ll be a heap of
trouble up Surry Hills way. Tour concert, however,
•does yourself and pupils a pile of credit, and, as we say
in Vaterland, we cordially wish you every ghfachtsund-
vundscheibewerfeldtdunwunsterhaven.
* * * *
At the Grafton Theatre the legitimate has evi-
dently succeeded comic opera, since we are informed
that last week Mr. F. Belfleld played Othello, with Mr.
C. H. Burford as lago, and Miss Tessie Horan as Des-
damona. Our correspondent says that “ Miss Horan
made a bewitching” Mrs. 0., which we can quite be-
lieve, and that “young fellows nearly wept as they
watched the intrigues of lago to arouse the Moor’s
jealousy.” This we can also understand, and it is sur-
prising that no young Grafton blood “ went for ” the
wily lieutenant. Had we been there, and marked the
murderous Moor come the cruel smother, we should
certainly have, in the excitement of our feelings, laid
ourselves open to “a pound, or till the rising.”
* * * *
We have received from nice little Luscombe
■Searrell a nice little letter, dated from ’Frisco, in which
he informs us that he is doing splendidly in California,
having been appointed musical director of the Tivoli
■Gardens at an excellent salary. His opera, “ The Fakir
of Travancore,” was a success, and ran 23 nights.
“ I send you ” (writes Luscombe, only he doesn’t) " a
copy of a song out of the ‘ Fakir;’ others to follow.
I am in communication with managers in New York for
the production of my piece, but not before February
next. The Clipper and Mirror give the opera splendid
notices; the Dramatic News goes for it. I start for
the East on Dec. 6th —right through to London—but
return to America in June following. My opera is being
ipublished by Ditson and Co., Boston. Copies will reach
Australia about Nov. I have secured all my copyrights.”
Now this is very satisfactory. In Sydney, Luscombe
could only get a show for a " Children’s fdte,”
at which he gave away penny whistles, and raised
enough for his passage to ’Frisco. And yet in America
he is all to the fore. Well, in this instance, we believe
the Yanks are right, and we should like to hear of our
email friend making a fortune. If he had only as much
money in his pockets as he has music in his soul, he
would be rich enough to buy A. T. Stewart’s "up
town ” store, and turn it into a pie shop.
♦ * * *
Dampier and his family have sailed for Austra-
lia in the Lusitania, so we may soon expect a taste of
Pettit, a chunk of Merritt, and a smack of Hopkins.
This intelligence would be a source of surprise to us
were we not past being surprised at anything con-
nected with theatricals. Mr. Dampier was stated to
; have made such a success at the London Surrey as to
have caused the West End managers to offer him
lucrative engagements. How is it then that he returns ?
Of course, we are glad to get him, but we would be
more glad to get him still if he brought back, besides
himself and the chicks, dramas of a higher class
than Pettit and Conquest’s " Black Flag," “The Green
Lanes of Old England," and other blood-and-thunder
productions of transpontine authors of which he has
secured the sole right. We are glad, however, to learn
that the great Hopkins—“Phoebus, what a name 1’ —has
a new drama in the churn at Gippsland, ready to he
turned out pat directly Mr. Dampier arrives. If there
are any theatrical productions for which we entertain
an absorbing passion, it is for the adorable adapta-
tions of Austral’s Own Adapter. So, spread wide your
sails, and stoke up your fires, Lusitania, and let us, at
the earliest possible date fill ourselves to repletion with
the delicate dish of which “ Alfred,” Pettit, Conquest,
and Hopkins form the principal ingredients. Now,
never let it be said that we didn’t give a good show to a
. colonial dramatist.
* * * *
The Irving Amateur Dramatic Society showed
for the first time at the New School, Lavender Bay,
when they played " Borrowed Plumes” and “ Sink or
Swim j” and we understand that the audience who
witnessed the performance are still alive. The room
was crammed with people, and the actors were crammed
with their parts, and the thing went as smoothly as a
cockroach over a tesselated pavement. During the
performance a number of yowling imbeciles endeavored
to interrupt the proceedings by sundry unseemly
interjections, but they were promptly removed by the
beadle. The lady amateurs were very cool and self_
possessed, and the gentlemen—more particularly Mr. J
Hinchy and Mr. J. L. Goodman—played in a manner that,
reminded the veteran playgoer of Mr. Crummies in his
prime. A handsome sum was realised forth© schools, and
after the show Father Kennedy entertained the per-
formers at supper. The Club is to give a performance
shortly in Sydney, when we shall have more to say
about them.
* * * *
Vanitas vanitatum! “ Vanity of vanities, and
all is vanity! ” So sang Solomon—not the Gaiety
party, but his grandpa — long before The Bulletin
gladdened the hearts of man in the Southern Hemi-
sphere. We admit there is much truth in Sol’s remark,
but if he had to bang the big piano in Dominic Sonsee’s
levee for 36 hours a day —as the present performer
has—he would admit that there was at least one show
where Vanity took a very back seat indeed.
** * *
There is a frightful row in Auckland about the
management of the kids’ “ Pinafore," getting up bogus
benefits for the little ones, and collaring the proceeds.
A. ben. was announced for little Osmond, who plays
Daadeye, and a number of persons attended the per-
formance, for the sole purpose of conferring some benefit
upon the child and his parents. Subsequently, how-
ever, (according to “One Who Hates Meanness ’’ in the
Auckland Star), it was ascertained that all the young-
ster had received was “ brusher,” and thereupon the
fat was in the fire. We can hardly believe either Mr.
Pollard or Mr. Walter Reynolds (especially after the
latter’s pathetic letter about his childhood) could be
guilty of such a ruse as this, and trust to hear that
they paid over to little Dick the benefit-money which
they advertised to give him. When we do hear this we
will ap-Pollard-gise.
** * *
At Melbourne, Marshall, so we heerd.
Took his benefit—and cleared.
Auckland scene of fresh successes;
Then to open the Princess’s—
A place, if Fred would take our tip.
He’d very carefully—let rip.
• • »
Dewhurst’s at the Royal, and hammers
At a round of Shakespeare’s dramas;
Oolu’s Fakir’s had a “ call ”
To show at the St. George’s Hall.
So, though we don’t with these things meddle.
We s’ppose that he has squared his “ sheddle.’’
• » *
Denton lectures, and has knock’d a
Few who do for science go in;
They say that he’s as smart as Proctor.
Well—get Smythe and have a “ throw in.”
He cannot be too quickly snavelled,
That quite too much intensely travelled,
** * *
We extract the following absorbing item from
Northern Argus “ Wilkenville (sic), the famous vio-
linist, is creating a great sensation/’ Then the next
paper we take up, the Otago Witness, tells ns that
Wilheny’s (sic) assistants are Kate Thrayer (sic),
soprano, and Maximilian Yogtich, solo pianist.” And
this reminds us that “ Wilkenville” has made the hit in
Melbourne that he should have made in Sydney, and
that Miss Kate Thayer has seceded from (the company,
and is still in Sydney, awaiting the return of her hus-
band, Will. Chapman, from Melbourne, whence he
comes to prosecute the four Frenchmen, at the Quarter
Sessions, for stealing his trunks.
• * *
While not enlarging upon the reasons of Miss
Thayer’s retirement from Mr. Duff’s combination, it
will suffice for ns to say that the arrangements which
were made for her were far from being of a desirable
nature. It is in contemplation, amongst that
lady’s friends, to request her acceptance (should
her stay here enable her to do so) of a complimentary
benefit. Should the thing come to a head, we are in a
position to state that the programme will comprise the
names of more celebrities than have been gathered to-
gether in Sydney for many a long day. But more of
this anon.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The Rev. John Alexander Dowie informs the
S. A. Register that he is not a member of the “ Salva-
tion Army,” but takes a great interest in its proceedings.
Then what is he—a deserter or a camp-follower ? He
hangs about the skirts of the “ Army," anyhow, and
marches with it. The Army has got into trouble now,
and John Alexander cries ofi. This is as if Marshal
M'Mahon had strolled round after Sedan, and mentioned
to special correspondents that he didn’t belong_ to the
French army, but took considerable interest in its pro-
ceedings. What we want to know is : What ceremonies
have to be observed on joining the Army, if marching
with it does net constitute enlistment ? Has a recruit
to take a shilling ? Because, if that’s it, we’ll guarantee
John Alexander a complete corps d’armde if he’ll only
come back. Oh, Alick, come back! come back! We
love you, Alick. Things are mighty dull since you left
and Pastor Allen submitted to ‘‘the wicked man,”
and gave over calling the Pope bad names in Hyde
Park. But, to return to our theme. If there’s a
shilling in it, John Alexander may go into the highways
and byeways with perfect confidence. Recruits won’t
want any compelling to ‘‘come in.” They’ll roll in, of
themselves. The trouble will be to get them out
again. An experienced recruit will know where to get
some very powerful sensations at 3d each, and bar-
tenders would have an active time “ chucking out," while
the recruiting-sergeant was drumming round.
* * #
Once more, where are the police ? Den’t their
court-house bibles tell them that Joshua, the son of
Nun, having blown his bugles under the ‘ Jerry' walls of
Jericho, the said walls immediately tumbled over and
nearly killed the buglers ? And yet, in the face of this,
the “ foorce ” stand quietly by and talk about the
weather, whilst the ice-cream fiend rushes wildly past
and toots his horn under the ‘ Jerry’ walls of our fair but
frail Town Hall.
* * *
In our last we drew attention to the marriage of
one Mr. Long with a Miss Little, and in doing so we
observed that if this man wanted “ Little here below,”
we would “ give a bag of flour to any one who could
inform us why on earth he wanted to marry the lady
and make her Long for.” A smarty, who signs
« Waverley,” writes in reply: “ Because he wanted —at
a future date—a little Long. Please send up that bag
of flour.” We will do so with pleasure; but if “ Waver-
ley ” only waits a little longer, he can have the “ little
Long ” and the bag of flour as well. We don’t give any
more conundrums after this. It pays us better to libel
peopi o .
Under the small-cap heading of “ The Flying
Squadron,” last Friday’s Nooze observes, in one
breath: *‘ The Royal Princes visited Government
House yesterday afternoon, and afterwards returned to
the Inconstant. The small-pox patients from Charles-
street, Woolloomooloo, and Raglan-street, Waterloo,
were conveyed down to the quarantine station this
morning. No new cases were reported up to the time of
going to press, and the work of disinfection goes on.”
Now, we know the above is true, because not a man on
the Nooze would lie to save his soul, or a week’s wash-
ing—except on business ; and this being the case, what
kind of work, we indignantly ask, is this to put Albert
Victor, George of Wales, and the rest of the Squadron
up to P The A.B. editor of the Twilight Truth de-
serves the thanks of the whole community for exposing
this rascally business ; and if any persons start a testi-
monial fund, we can give them the address of at least
one man who will sling £IOOO at their feet without a
moment’s hesitation—providing he’s quick enough down
to pick it up again. Just imagine Bertie Victor driving
an ambulance waggon, and George of Wales putting
carbolic acid on his hair instead of eau-de-Wigzelll
And, furthermore, what ever will Pa and Ma say when
they read that Friday’s Nooze ?
• * *
Daring the Thursday night debate on the
Parramatta tram question, Mr. Cicero Darley observed
that he “ never yet travelled by the tram without wit-
nessing an accident.” We have worried up “ the oldest
inhabitant” in respect to this statement, and he asserts
that, although he has ridden trams four times a day
ever since the second Punic War, he only remembers
meeting Mr. Darley in a tram once, and that was the
day Julius Cffisar was ventilated by the prisoner Brutus,
and Mr. D. rode down to prosecute for the Caesar
family. , , •
Not many moons ago the daughter of one of our
first families was hoisting her lovely form on board a
certain Orient Company steamer, when she happened
to place her Cinderella-like foot om nothing, and as the
nothing gave way the lady at once went to the bottom
of the deep blue sea with an agility that was wonderful
for one so young and delicate. Instantly a sailor
plunged overboard—caught the drowning fair—landed
her safely on board, and then stood, dripping wet and
cap in hand before her. The limpid lady’s first care
was to ai range her train, and then, turning to the
plucky plougher of the waves she graciously observed—
“ Aw—is your capting or any other offlcah of importance
on board ? If so request him te introduce me to you,
and I will return—aw—my heartfelt thanks." Jack
bluntly observed, he thought he was more to be blamed
than thanked. “ Sing hey the merry maiden, and the
tar.”
Dr. Hodson writes to say that we made a mistake
in saying that, when he vaccinated the Treasury clerks,
“only two took; ’’ we ought to have stated " all took
but two.” We were evidently in error, and of course
regret the mistake. Could it be possible that we made
a mistake also about the Chinamen giving the doctor
that watch and chain ? If so, and he will send us word,
we will once more grovel.
» * *
The Americans are ahead of us. They have
imitation honey now. Well, we haven’t got any of
that, so far; but we have plenty of imitation news-
papers.
• ♦ *
In the Molong Council, the other day, a member
moved that street lamps be erected at isolated corners.
Now, when he goes into a store, he can’t get a shopman
to serve him, and when he dines at an hotel, the servant
girls drop the greens and gravy all down the back of
his neck.
*
Head this, and —bust. At the Mayor’s ball, the
wife of a publican was standing in the front rank of the
alley up which the Princes were to travel, when an
alderman and his lady entered, bowed te the Mayor,
and passing up pleasantly accosted the spouse of the
boniface. But that lady, instead of returning the City
Father's salutation, turned angrily away. " What is
the matter, dear ?” enquired her friend. “ The ideah 1”
exclaimed the publican’s wife; “ like his impudence,
indeed! My greengrocer !”
• « •
A correspondent sends us what he calls “ a real
original nursery rhyme,” Here it is: —
“ Sing a song of guineas.
Teams of wool and hay;
Forty pickaninnies
In a pot of tay.
When the tay got boilin’
They raised an awful bobberie—
Wasn’t that a stunning dodge
For starting a corroborie ? ”
The man who wrote this has a great future before him.
And, if we had our way, he should have something be-
hind him, too.
* * *
This is an item in which is embodied a moral.
Read it, therefore, dear “ Upper Crust,” and smile. At
the recent Government House ball in honour of the
Princes, a dais had been (as is usual) erected for the use
of the Governor and his particular “ set.” And as the
particular set of His Excellency is (whatever it may be
intellectually) limited in numbers, the nouveaax riches
are rigorously excluded. Well, about 10 o’clock, the
member of a certain Northern constituency and his
wife entered the ball-room, and, with a view of putting
the iron in the hearts of their friends, neighbours, and
(particularly) their relations, they skipped up at once
on the dais; and, sitting carelessly down, commenced to
beam upon the company and talk about “ baby.”
Ancient Gussy, who was in deep conversation with
Lady Stephen about “ Pencilled Hamburgs,” did not, at
once, notice the advent of this legislative couple; but,
on his diplomatic eye spotting them, he immediately
shrieked for 11 Nathan.” Upon that chivalrous warrior
(not sans spurs, but sans reproche) making his appear-
ance—breathless with the weight of his “ fighting iron”
—His excellent Excellency ordered him to inform the
trespassing pair that they had come into the dress
circle with a pit ticket. Mr. and Mrs. People’s Repre-
sentative then smiled a most ghastly smile, and, rising
with a feeble imitation of being tired of their distin-
guished position, descended to join the common herd
with the same grace that a strange dog leaves a
butcher’s shop, closely pursued by the chopper.—Here
endeth the first lesson.
Now it came to pass that this humiliation of two
of the legislature had been closely watched and eagerly
enjoyed by a certain lady, who, though she has the
entree to Government House, is not above retailing
through her “ hub." the “ long sleever ” of democracy
to a thirsty public. So, with a knowing smile to her
friends, she invited them to mount the dais with her,
smirk awhile amongst vice-royalty, and royalty pure,
and thus demolish for ever her dear friends the humili-
ated. So, spreading out their skirts, they sailed up to
the dais, and, beaming familiarly upon the venerable
chicken-raiser, —sat down. Immediately the Com-
mander-in-Chief of this colony and its dependencies
perceived this, he became much distressed, and once
more “Nathan" was sent fer. However, this time,
our friend N. had taken temporary leave of absence, and
was discussing a vanilla ice with a pretty girl in the
marquee —oblivious not of his moral—but of his aide-
de-camp-ish responsibilities—so he did not respond to
the gubernatorial summons. His Excellency then
laboriously rose, and, walking over to the “ leading
lady,” informed her, in so many words, that the “ free
list was suspended," and, during the stay ot the
Princes, colonial ale was at a discount. By this time
the ball-room had filled to its full limit, and beneath
the gaze of hundreds of her dearest friends (who
thoroughly appreciated the situation) the lady, fol-
lowed by her friends, mingled sadly with the giddy
throng. Of course the moral is this—
Humpty Dnmpty sat on a wall;
Humpty Dnmpty had a great fall;
Not all the King’s horses, and all the King’s men.
Can put Humpty Dumpty together again t
Here endeth the second lesson.
• * *
The day after a recent show in the Northern
districts, a lady belonging to the “wealthy lower
orders ” attended to receive back some poultry which
she had entered for exhibition. She hawi not taken a
prize, nor even an “ honourable mention." Regarding
her precious, though, alas, unappreciated cacklers for a
moment in silence, she turned to the polite poultry-
steward, and in a highly-acidulated voice, broke out:
“ More pilfering. I declare I never saw such thieves in
my life. That Brahma hen of mine lays an egg every
day, and somebody must have stolen it ” (i.e. the egg).
Then she meandered on till she came opposite a fine
coop of Rouen ducks, belonging to another resident,
and her gaze rested lovingly on an egg half hidden in
the straw. Modulating her voice to its most persuasive
accent, she again turned to the steward, and insinuat-
ingly asked, “ Would you mind procuring me that egg,
Mr. ? I can’t reach it, and I would very much like
to get a bird of that breed ’’ The moral is that if you
take my eggs you steal, whereas if I take yours, I
merely—well “ convey, the wise it call."
# # *
The proprietor of the Walgktt Mail rejoices
in the name of Jones. Had it been Moses, or M 'Tavish,
or even something smacking of Yankee land, we would
have been let down easy, but that a gentleman, in
whose veins courses the blue blood of a thousand
Joneses —oh, hang it, it is only another of the cherished
delusions of our youth gone bung. His manner of
dealing with the exchanges combines the canniness of
the Scot and the rapacity of a Shylock, with the level-
headedness of a down-easter. Here is his advertise-
ment Bush Reading.—Parcels containing twelve
assorted country papers of recent dates, may he
obtained at this office. Price, one shilling." Here is a
wrinkle which will enable provincial pressmen to die
millionaires—if they can only live long enough.
* * *
“ I wish, sir,” said a well-known Gundagai store-
keeper (and a wonderfully powerful electioneering agent)
to a certain Minister, “ to get my son a billet in the
Civil Service." “ What are his qualifications ?’’ enquired
the Minister. “ He has failed six times in passing his
preliminary law examination,” returned the anxious
father. “ Say no more,” rejoined the man in authority;
“ send him along on Monday, and he shall be inducted.”
Then the storekeeper walked away, and was moderately
satisfied, until, on arriving at the corner of the street,
he stopped suddenly. “Well, I ara soft," he exclaimed s
“ if Billy had only gone up once more, and got plucked,
he might have got appointed Police Magistrate.”
* * #
TheC.M.G. Young Men’s Mutual Improvement
Society met last Thursday night to discuss—" Which is
more advantageous, the single or the married state ? ’’
The debate went on with great spirit for about two
hours, and just as a speaker was making an impassioned
oration in favour of the “ single state,” a lady in a red
shawl, and goloshes, marched up to the orator, and
exclaimed—” Henery 1 I thought you was at the pub.,
but this ’ere’s worser. Come ‘ome, you willin, and
support your family.” When he had dismally slouched
out, the chairman put the question, and “the Single
state ” was carried nem. Ais.
* * *
From two columns report in the COOMA Ex-
press we learn that the proprietor of the Temperance
Hotel has been fined £30 for “ sly grog selling—one
information against the landlord being dismissed.” This
curious satire on total abstinence has brought forth
fruit, since we understand there has been started in
Queanbeyan a club called “ The Grand United Order of
Boozers” —a society, the members of which will, at
every meeting of the Lodge, do their utmost to out-
shine the Total Abstainers in their spiritual bibular
efforts. At the start, the members of the new society
felt that they could hardly hope to cope with their
Rechabite antagonists, so enormous were their capaci-
ties for storing away spirituous compounds; but when,
at the first meeting of the members, they disposed of
three cases of whisky, and two cases of brandy amongst
a round dozen, they began to dream of triumph. The
next day, however, the club was dis-illusioned. Prom
incontrovertible statistics they were told that six gentle-
men, who had affirmed never to take a beer, or wine, or
spirits, as a beverage, had consumed from 7 p.m. until
2 a.m. —four gallons ot rum, two cases of three star—
and a quarter cask of beer; and on this being thoroughly
authenticated, the Grand United Order of Boozers
broke up in confusion.
* * *
The unpropitious Abbott fain would dig
A grave for barristerial gown and wig.
Giving to Smith and Jones the right to pry.
And pick out currants from the legal pie.
But Chinese David draws his falchion keen, _
And strikes for horsehair bands and bombazine.
Not that he loves the crew or Commodore
Who guide the ship—but fat refreshers more.
V.
From all accounts, the Engliah|army is in a very
disorganised state. The 74th Highlanders, whose
establishment is 1050, turned up the other day at Aider-
shot with 380 men only. The 93rd, which in 1878 was so
weak that the commanding officer, on going on parade,
found nobody but the orderly-sergeants and corporals of
companies present, was, by a tremendous effort to
secure recruits and volunteers from a dozen different
regiments, raised to 900 men, of all ranks. It lately
arrived in Aldershot from Gibraltar in an efficient
condition—only to find that, owing to Mr. Childers’ last
cnt-and-shuffie, its establishment is to be reduced to
480 bayonets.
That ghastly old question about the portrait has
been resurrected again. It appeared amongst other
equally fresh items in the Town and Country on July
13, and Alfred gave as the solution that it was the
speaker’s own portrait. Naturally, this decision has
made several persons lunatic, and their friends apply to
us to restore them to sanity. We’ll be good humoured
as usual, and sacrifice ourselves. The venerable puzzle
is this: A person looking at a pictnre says, “ Uncles
and brothers have I none; yet that man’s father was
my father’s son. Whese picture was it ?” Now, that
man’s father we will designate A. Then A was "my
father’s son.” But “ I have no brothers." Therefore,
A is myself. Next, Ais “ that man’s” (the subject of
the picture) father. Ergo, I myself am father to the
person depicted. Clearly, therefore, he is my son.
Ans.: The picture represents the speaker’s son. Ask
us a hard one.
ON THE SKATES.
Hear the thunder of the skates, roller skates.
How my soul so supersensitive their row infernal
hates!
When I’m half-a-mile, or more,
From the door.
Comes that deafening, maddening rolling
Of those wheels upon the floor—
That maddening, monotonous, reverberating roar
Of the skates.
Hear the whirring and the whizzing of the skates,
Mark the unaccustomed antic, struggles, ludicrously
frantic.
As each figure there gyrates.
In a human panorama, ’mid a cacophonic clamour.
Men and women, girls and boys.
Make a horrid, hideous noise.
Like some huge Titanic hammer
That some Hercules employs—
Oh 1 those skates.
See the skater on the wheels —how he reels!
Oh! see the look of agony his countenance reveals.
As he knows, and he feels.
That his toes, and his heels.
Are quite beyond controlling, when he once commences
rolling
On those wheels!
They are either brass or wooden.
And they’ll let him down so sudden
On his seat.
That he’ll wonder, wonder, wonder.
At that awful clap of thunder.
When the floor rose up from under-
Neath his feet.
Hear the rumbling, see the tumbling, on the skates !
How each joist, and beam, and rafter
Oscillates!
Hear the mocking sound of laughter
That each downfall follows after.
And all the tender feelings of the victim lacerates j-
For the public sitting there
With expectant eager air.
Diabolically waits till the tyro on the skates
Tumbles down, like a stone.
With a frown, and a groan.
And then, rising in confusion,
Madly rubs each sore contusion,
Swearing skating’s a delusion
And a snare.
There’s the expert on his gliding, skimming skates /
See him bending, swaying, leaning,
Like a ship he goes careening.
Doing “in” and “outside edges,” doing sinuous "figure
eights
Swiftly nearing, disappearing.
Verging, veering, deftly steering.
He pauses not a moment, and he never hesitates ;
But faster flies, and faster.
Never fearing for disaster.
For he’s evidently master
Of the skates.
See them thunder, glide, and blunder on the skates I
How their dignity each tumble irritates I
How they roll, roll, roll.
How they clash, collide, and clink.
Till they agonise my soul
By their clatter at the Rink.
Round and round, and round again.
In a sort of endless chain —
A chain of human beings, where each skater forms a link.
He is wise who hesitates, ere he rashly tempts the
Fates,
By trusting his “anatomy 1 ’ on those deceptive skates
At the Rink.
So they ceaselessly continue on the skates.
With a vigour no catastrophe abates;
Circuitously wheeling in an intertwining scroll.
So they roll, roll, roll.
And the tumbles pay the toll
On a journey that’s monotonous, and meaningless, and
droll.
On a gyratory journey, that no object has, or goal
But because it is the fashion, they must all insanely roll
On the running, rambling, risky
Roller skates.


Public Compan
The mercantile bani
ESTABLISHED 1)
INCORPORATED BY ACT OP I
Paid-up Capital.
Eeserve Fund...
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.
AUDITOES:
Jaa. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGES:
F. A. A. Wilso:
SECEETAETs
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 Qeorge-street Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bonli
London Office, 30, Great £
Director —Edward Chapi
Agent—Q. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all nsual Ba
Agency Business on the most favoni
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other nrodnce shipped to England 1
HOUSES furnished at the C
Arcade, on Time Payments.
street.
WE repectfully invite the i
Show Eooms, Central Fui
31, and 33 Park-street.
WE Furnish Houses fror
Central Furnishing Arcad
ark-str oet. 1
CENTRAL FURNISHING
Buildings, Noe. 29, 31, and
This establishment is now open,
requisite for household fnrnishinj
large and extensive department sol
glassware.
H
LEVY and Co. beg to i
• public that they have now c
FUENITURE ESTABK
Nos. 29, 31, a
N
CRIPPS’ CATERING (
Having taken those COMMODIOI
door from Hunter-street, in Eliza
PAETIES CAN BE SI
with a
LARGE R O
for
HOT DINNERS or MI
P.
BALL PAETIES
R. LAi
Wholesale and Ee
PRODUCE ME R (
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS
SYDNEY.
BEANCH STORE
18 George-street West (late Par
And
Darlinghurst Road, near W:
PnM Pan* Bariev. Feed an<
India and China Tea Company,
705 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET,
(Opposite A. Hordern & Sons’ new warehouses).
Wo Wto call special attention of the public to our BLENDED TEAS Finest Family
Bland 2 1 - g Finest Roval Blond, 2/6; Superior Queen's Blend, 3/-; Superior Empress Blend, 4/-.
a of parity aod weight Sold m«b ».d 21b
racaeu uy > . * . civ an a 71b- also, catties, boxes, i-chests, &c. SAMPLES ot
S££ TEAS canbTobtlined at the Stores, or of our travellers.-REUBEN OLIVER, Manager.
DAYIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mudgee.
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elboume International, all assertions
to the contrary n otwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO..
Sole Agents,
674 Gcorge-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SON.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbm Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depdt,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
Public Companies
C
ORNWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR
ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £lOO.OOO.
RESERVE FUND
£BO,OOO.
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G, A. LLOYD AND CO«
Aoents,
348 QEOEGE-STEEET,
SIDNEY.
T
HE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
YICTOEIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BEANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the-
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
BTEICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
oroportionate amount of the entire PEOFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Eesident Secretary.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to-
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the-
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY A BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the-
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
Btreet. WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
TNCOMES ASSURED.
THE CIVIL SEEVICE BANKING AND COMMEE-
CIAL PEOVIDENT SOCIETY, Limited.
This Society provides a certain fixed allowance for its
members when thrown out of employment.
Medical attendance durirg sickness ; assistance in old
age, and when incapacitated from following any employ-
ment through disease or accident; and in special cases of
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence to procure them
suitable re-engagements.
For further particulars, apply to
G. HOETON MOEEIS,
Secretary,
W entworth-court,
Elizabeth-street,
Sydney.
Applications for Agencies invited.
Photographer s
r
A a L O U R.
U D I O S.
The Eeally Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGEAPHES
805 GEOEGE STEEET,
Opposite the Eailway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d per dozen.
BOAETT’S STUDIO,
m
604 GEORGE STREET, SY DNEY.
JIREEMAN AND COMPANY,
PEOTOGBAPEEBS
TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE GOVEENOE,
346 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Oil, Crayon, and Miniature Painters.
Permanent Autotype Enlargements up to Life Size.
T HARVEY.
* WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, Ac.
Hay and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CAETS,
BUSINESS CAETS, LORRIES, Ac.
Eailway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material suit-
able for Dobbins and other Eailway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
MANUFACTORY:
BON-ACCORD
WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences Churches, Stores. &c.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad withperfect safety. entirely free from
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free nrom
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace ;
in APPARATUS*!^SVr lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas. rQR puLL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TRESSES
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling oil in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BEOS.,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H. S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Temporary Premises.
STDNET:
No. 11 BLOOMFIELD STREET,
SURRY HILLS.
M
ELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION, 1881.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Other Starters (divided)
Non Starters (divided)
6 Prizes of £lOO each
6 Prizes of £5O each...
£llO Prizes of £lO each
8 is my fifth Consultation since October last, and
is the best ever brought before the public in the Aus-
£3ooo
£lOOO
£5OO
£l5OO
£2OOO
£6OO
£3OO
£llOO
tralian Colonies. „ . ,
The 122 extra Prizes, consisting of 6 prizes of £lOO
each; 6 prizes of £5O each, and 110 Prizes of £lO each,
brings the winning number of tickets to about 240.
If cheques are forwarded exchange must be added.
Wherever possible P.O. Order should he forwarded and
Stamps enclosed for reply and result.
THEODORE BEOWN,
Box 210, Post Office, Auckland, N.Z.
CONSULTATION on the Metropolitan Stakes
—250 at £1 each, divided as follows First horse
£l5O, second £5O, third £25, starters (not 123) £25.
N.B.—All communications must be accompanied with
stamps forreply. Address, A.TURNER, 91 Elizabeth-
treet, Sydney.
nn hos. j. sown & c 0.,
ENGINEERS, BEASSPOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES. SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &c.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHUEST-STEEET, SYDNEY.


Tobacconists
J
fe
A M £ S J
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Ruby, Bird's Eye, Gold Leaf
Best Imported Brai
Havana and Manilla <
Pipes Mounted and &
159
PITT STE
Next Post Office
*
TIN TAG TOBA
None are genuine but the E<
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKE]
DIXSON & SO*
15 TORE STREET,
SMOKE
EUREKA GIGA
MILD, FRAGRANT, & I
A
0
:>
Manufactured b
T. S A TW E
AT ID
EAGLE TOBAGO
Clarence-street, 8}
For VENETIAN
TRY
WOR M A
B
112 OXFORD STI
OOTS! BOOTS!!
MAKE TOUR PUR
AT
H. HILDE
NEW BOOT
670 GEORGE S'
BRICKFIELD H
Chemists and Drn|
ÜBL I C N
THE following' Lial
WATSON’S RENOWNED PI
MEDICINES,
bo wall and favourably known to the
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antil
Watson's (Vegetable) Won
Watson's Gingerbread Won
Watson's Compound Chlorc
Watson’s Strengthening Ey
Watson’s Australian Vermi
Watson’s Excelsior Tootha
Watson’s Concentrated Got
Elixir (a most valuable
can be obtained, wholesale and re
factory—
A
WATSON’S DEUG
681 GEORGE STRE
POTHECAEIE
14 OXFORD STRE
Neab Hyde Fabk Ci
(N.B.—The Tram-car stops
W. D. EAMES, Pb
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEN
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of t
Societies of Victoria and New
W. D. E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded h
Irrespective of Club prescription
has dispensed 34,000 original presc
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THE
Every prescription is CAREFU"
the BEST DRUGS, copied, number
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folk
E AME S’S QUINi:
Which improves the appetite at
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGEST]
For severe cases where the gastr
and when sickness and flatulen
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANT]
Which relievo the bowels gently, I
naturally healthy functions
organs.
PRICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/C
Chemists and Drug
IAKE NO MOE
but try
EANDEESON'S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZE
Do you BUFFEB from HEADA
Then try Ea
PODOPHYLLI
Do you Complain of Indigestion
Take a few doses of B
PODOPHYLLI
Do you Suffer from Giddiness P
Spend one shilling, and I
EANDEESON
Do you constantly suffer from Bi
If so remember
PODOPHYLI
will soon cure, if taken as dii
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICI
Are any[of your children sick ai
can safely give uhem one ol
for the small members of t
TAKE WELI
W Eemember this, and always
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Pro]
EDWAED EOW and C(
45 and 47 Qeorge-str
T BOTAL LETTEE
The Greatest
WONDEE OP THE
B
JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTEALI AN OINTI
Guaranteed to In
Free from all poisonous qualitiei
of Vegetable Matter
Being made from the Wild Plants
in the Bush of New Sout
This Ointment is not a mere cat
public, nor does it require any puff
as it has been so well proved for th(
that it is impossible that the public
long deceived. In fact, people are n
lous regarding its efficacy (never I
article of the kind before which a
relief), that they really cannot belie
But one trial will convince the m<
High and low, rich and poor, have
fits from its use, and scarcely anj
found without it: and
JOSEPHSON'S austealia;
is now the household word of the cc
The quick and instant relief from
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OP TP
which, taken altogether, prove the A
to be the Eighth Wonder of the W
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, <
bands and lips, bunions, soft con
casualties attending the human fri
all-healing properties of
josephson's austealia;
the
WONDEE OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perf«
Josephson's Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External 1
may be cured by using Josephson
ment P
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns aj
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Excorial
tion when a remedy like Jose
Ointment can be obtained?
Who would suffer from Piles \
Josephson's Australian Ointment ii
It stands unrivalled. The won
effected, which is proved by the testi
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-en
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fi
and totally free from any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S ,
OINTMENT,
which is guar anted to be what
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and store]
and Is 6d each throughout the cob
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWAED EC
ALL OP P 1
(Late Felhinoha
7 8 KING S T :
Dispensing Establish
Business Annoum
W.
H. PA
PIANOFORTE WAEI
352 George-Btre
•mm
m
.■■■'■V' ;
PIANOFORTES, PIA
Just Unpacked
SPLENDID STOCK OP PIES
MENTS, b;
EEAED (Paris and London),
PLETEL,
COLLAED and COLL)
SOUFLETO,
BEEDEN and
TEOST,
AU<
And other Pirst-class 'Makers, i
Black and Gold, and W
AMERICAN OR
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and !
£
And other Eenownei
JjJ CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Betail
| TEAMWAT TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
G E O C E E S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTBAUIAN WINES and GENEBAL
GBOCEBIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
198 OXPOED STEEET
(Opposite Court-house),
DAELINQHUBST.
EON AND BEASS
Fitted up wi
Palliasses, Mattresses, B<
Sheets, Blankets, Coi
Bolsters and Pillo
Mosquito Curt
J. LAWLI
MANUFACTURER ANI
608 Oeorge-sti
■p O W L E E’S P
AND
BEICK WO]
OAMPEEDOWN. NE
AND GENERAL COMMI
343 and 345 Kent-steeet, t
ESTABLISHEI
Price List on appl
XI . XL .
PROVISION MEI
H. A


ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST’
1 NOTICE.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
s
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS,
G. P. MUEPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
B
RITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS-
WAREHOUSE.
Q. P. MUEPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
IAPERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. P. MUEPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
WHITE LEAD, OILS, COLOURS, CEMENT
&c., &c.
G. P. MUEPHY,
Regent House, 859 George-street South.
(LATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.-
GEORGE P. MUEPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
T
HOMAS
WEBB
BOND-STREET,
&
SONS,,
Beg to inform their customers that they have JUST'
OPENED a LARGE CONSIGNMENT of
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, and
Also,
TEA SETS.
PANCY CHINi
AND
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invited.
im
jeWellew/\rcq
PLAIN
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
MASON BROTHERS,
14; &16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE*
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,.
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS*
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
fcchnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS'
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
QRBAT CASH CLEARANCE SALE OF
BOOKS, FANCY GOODS, and STATIONERY.
REBUILDING OP PREMISES,
16 and 18 HUNTER STEET.
The present buildings being not large enough for the
rapidly increasing business,
Messrs. Turner and Henderson,
have made arrangements to rebuild (with great
alditions) and to save expense of removal of stock, they
offer the Whole of their Fine Stock of Books, Station-
ery, and Fancy Goods to the Public at VERY LITTLE
OVER COST PRICE, and in some "cases UNDER
COST.
TURNER AND HENDERSON,
16 and 18 HUNTER STREET.
MRS. BRITCHER begs to inform the Ladies
of Sydney and the surrounding suburbs that
she has established an ELECTRIC BATH, under all
the latest improvements ; and hopes, by care and atten-
tion, to merit a share of their patronage.
Ladies from a distance can be provided with BOARD*
and RESIDENCE during treatment, if required.
MRS. BRITCHER,
Euiabsxh-steeet, opposite Belmobr Pare
CENT
9
I
OTCSI
rteuRES
N PLAIN
MABKCP
MXUOODV
Its
M IIV AC I murS '■■ " j
I Q P|* ER 5 iwA
BOOTC
c c» V, J
m
«u
MS
'hi.: i.t .
9ft
T . . ■.... i i.i-i-H-'jij-mjJij
Vr^
TO v^MvmTi
tVM(M<tuji«
v ? ? r> v><. t g IhflU j 1 ;11
,1 •*» . SStfT* 'i- •'•* ■» \J*!. : -E 1 : ATk* if I
iliat inamiwiin.
mm
’-■'S .V,
u
;*.sll\ii
MS
«S»>
ALARMING SALE OE BOOTS AND SHOES
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COW PA NY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
TOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
GOWiNG BROTHERS’
332 Sc 800
GEORGE STREET.
10s 6d DOUBLE TEXTURE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, ju . Foxe’a Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s fid. Five oases of the above
opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
shrunk and well cut. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s fid to 30s.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD .JOB NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
NOE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTofSOAP;
Trademark "Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
al^ays
\\sto
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, Ac.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, Ac.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, Ac.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, Ac.
And (or every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
IS CHARL TTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. KEEP A CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEILSON,
BRISBANE. QUEENSLAND.
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
NEW AND BEAUTIFUL GOODS.
ATTRACTIVE PRICES.
A FREE DISTRIBUTION of CATALOGUES takes
place daily, giving full information respecting economi-
cal Honse funnishing.
Houses furnished for £l5
Houses furnished for £25
Houses furnished for £35
Houses furnished for £5O
Houses furnished for £7O
Houses furnished for £lOO
Houses furnished for £2OO
Houses furnished for £3OO
The STOCK is of such extent that PURCHASERS
have every opportunity of making economical choice
and careful selections. All goods are marked in plain
figures so that parties who are not just now prepared
to make purchases can pay visits of inspection and ob-
tain every information in a pleasant manner, without
being pressed to buy.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
LATE
W. B. CAMPBELL,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 * 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next the Royal Hotel).
N.B.—Open every WEDNESDAY EVENING until
nine o’clock for the convenience of those who cannot
come during the day time.
rjIHE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Sorry her lot who loves two swells.
Second wives usually have to hear descriptions
of the fine cookery of first wives.
A fashionable mother in New York is said to
have rouged her baby’s cheeks for baptism, as “it was
pale that morning."
Chicago girls have the aesthetic craze, and are
'getting up their hair so that it looks like a pile of rat-
traps struck by lightning.
“ Her smile,” says a San Francisco reporter,
speaking of Emily Soldene, “ opened out like the Yose-
mite Valley in a May morning."
M.L.A.’s daughter (Toq.J: “Yes, Agnes, I’m
going to have a cream-coloured silk, provided pa does
not veto the appropriation xna has passed.”
“Nokiss ”he said, pleadingly, “no kiss from
my darling to-night ?” “ No,” she said, emphatically,
*no kiss. I hear there are mumps in your family.”
Yielding to the solicitations of a deputation of
ladies, a number of the leading Melbourne drapers have
consented to introduce spring or counter seats, for the
use of the shop-girls.
They were having a family set-to, and she asked
him if there was anything in the past that he would
like to recall, and he heartlessly said : “Yes, the day
you first refused me.”
Just now the women load their dresses down
with beads. Next year it may be the fashion to wear
from thirty to eighty cow bells. Nothing is too roman-
tic for a woman to wear.
A young lady of 22 years refused to wed a man
of 50, saying that he was neither one thing nor another.
He was too old for a husband and too young to hold out
any hope of immediate widowhood.
A seaside belle left her bathing-shoes hanging
out of her hotel window to dry, and the next day the
local paper announced that such a hotel " had put up
new awnings of an antique design.”
When woman’s ruby lips unclose.
Harsh syllables to utter,
Tis like a blemish on a rose.
Or tangled hair in butter.
After supper at a ball —He : “ Without joking,
Elsie, I do adore you. When I look at you there is
such a commotion in my breast!” She : *' And in mine
too, Henri; it most be the lobster salad 1”
“ What beautiful hair that young lady has,”
remarked Jones, in a half-audible tone. “Yes," re-
Slied Pingrey, “ but it isn’t hers.” ’Tis false 1" cried
lie lady, suddenly facing the rude fellows.
At Wellington Police Court, recently, an appli-
cation for a publican’s license was made by a single
girl—a Miss Theakstone. The applicant was beautiful
and young —apparently not over 20, and her charms
evidently exercised a strong influence over the impres-
sionable hearts of the local sergeant and police
magistrate. The license was granted. It’s just the
same in Sydney.
Cetewayo’s four wives are described as great
strapping women in excellent condition, and about as
contented with their lot as the stalled ox, whom in in-
tellectual development they much resemble. Court
dress is, though becoming enough, but scanty, and suits
their fine bronzed figures well—just a sergeant’s plaid
of the 91st tartan as a shawl, which seems to be re-
garded as an encumbrance. They are merry, light-
hearted creatures, who fleet the time carelessly enough
iu a golden world of idleness and Kaffir beer.
A young man was once pressing his suit, and, in
the midst of his ardour, questioned the object of his
choice as to her possible financial future. “ I have
heard,” he said, “that year father owns two large
estates in Silesia.” “ Yes,” was the naive reply, “ and
he owns two more in Pommerania.” The suitor hesi-
tated a moment, as though to catch his breath, and
then, falling on his knees, and looking the young lady
imploringly in the face, cried out, “ And can you, my
darling, doubt my affection under such circumstances ?”
She sat at the table of a fashionable watering-
place, and she wore a crimson satin dress cut as close to
the shoulders as law and shoulders allow. She swept
the air with her bare arm, and as her fingers were
covered with rings she seemed to bring down the stars
every time. She plunged her fingers into one dish after
the other and wiped her mouth on the back of her
hand. One of her neighbours quietly passed her napkin
and she picked it up as quietly, and said:—“Here!
quick ! somebody has lost a handkerchief. I never
carry anything as coarse as that.”
THE KOOKABURRA.
An appropriate wedding march —'‘What will
the harvest be P”
When the Bey first hears the “ Marsellaise,” he
will, of course, want to know what that Tunis.
Appropriate voluntary pending the arrival of
the bridal pair—" Trust her not, she is fooling thee.”
The Czar has to get his beer-jug tied to a long
string and pulled up to the window of his other “jug.
It’s rather rough on an old maid to draw a gen-
tleman’s dressing-gown at a church fair when her young
sister draws a gentleman.
“ Did you call your brother a liar ?” asked the
stern parent; and the culprit replied, “ Well, I said he
was a sewing-machine agent.”
Miss Rrownstone says if she has a dog she wants
one of those great Sara Bernard dogs that dig thote
dear old monks out of the snow in Switzerland.
They met, they smiled, they wept, they loved;
He called her Jane, she called him Thomas.
A richer man rode down the lane.
And Tom brought suit for breach of promise.
“ Men often jump at conclusions,” says the pro-
verb. So do dogs. We saw a dog jump at the conclusion
of a cat, which was sticking through the opening of a
partly-closed door, and it made more disturbance than
a church scandal.
The Earl of Desart is to be married to Miss
Bischoffscheim, the daughter of the Hebrew financier,
who will bring him a dowry of $725,000, and as much
more at the death of her father. Just think of so much
sweetness to be wasted on the Desart heir!
He was one of a jury of four. He was objected
to, and was examined as to his qualifications. “ What
would you do ? ” they asked him, “if you were on the
jury and the case was,” &o “ Shoore, yer honor, I’d
do what was plazin’ to the rest of the company."
A small lad received the present of a toy
trumpet, to which he became greatly attached. At
night, when he was about to be put in his “ little bed,"
and was ready to say his prayers, he handed the trumpet
to his grandmother, saying, “ Here, grandma, you blow
while I pray.”
“ Dovey,” ho said, “ I think I was telling you,
after I came home last night, about the necessity of
some retrenchment in our expenditures—was I not ?"
“Well, really, I’ve forgotten, John,” she answered,
nonchalantly; “ turn on the phonograph and see." He
turned it on, and all it said was, “ Whazzer mazzer—
(hie) —mazzer ? Whazzer mazzer ?”
A young man who had been spending a few
weeks in San Francisco, says the Carson (Nev.) Appeal,
was telling his maiden aunt about the loudness of the
theatres. " Oh, Billy,” said she, with uplifted hands,
“ how can you attend those horrid shows where the per-
formers have so little on ? " “ That’s nothing,” said
the boy, gravely ; “ I went one night to a place where
the performers had nothing at ali on ; not a stitch, I
assure you.” The old lady fainted away, and when she
came to her senses was informed that it was an exhibi-
tion of horses at the Hippodrome, and they performed
their tricks without saddle er bridle.
IN EXPLANATION.
Her lips were so near
That—what else could I do ?
■you’ll be angry, I feor.
But her lips were so near—
Well, I can’t make it clear,
, Or explain it to you.
But her lips were so near
That —what else could I do P


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir John Morphett, of S. Australia, leaves for
England shortly.
Mr. James Fairfax, of the S. M. Herald, is
about to visit Europe again.
Judge Moles worth (Vie.) continues ill, and will
probably require an extension of leave.
“ The Chiel ” accounts for the present conduct
of Archbishop Croke, by remarking that “he has
been in Australia."
Mr. John Scantlebury,late of the Sydney Daily
Telegraph, has received an appointment on the staff of
Queensland Hansard.
Mr. William Hemmant, the principal mover in
the Queensland steel rails affair, has sailed for England.
He drinks Hop Bitters now.
Mr. Beardmore, of Cooktown, made about ,£llOO
out of his beche-de-mer vessels in 10 weeks. See what
it is to be sluggishly inclined.
The first private friend admitted to see General
Garfield, as he lay wounded, was Colonel Bob Ingersoll,
he celebrated Freethought apostle.
James Gordon Bennett, proprietor of the N. Y.
Herald, is to be married very shortly to Mdlle. Jeanne
Bonaparte, daughter of Prince Pierre.
Mr. G. H. Reid, M.P., has got the biggest head
at the bar. So his hatter says. And hatters never lie
—except.tin their advertisements —and then “hardly
ever.”
HOn account of the part taken by him in the
Greer tragedy, at Melbourne, M. Soudry was, on his
arrival in Paris, dismissed from the Government
■service.
n, dit that the Governor, in absenting himself
/rom the University commemoration, wished to show
* .hat he sided with Professor Badham and Co. re the
rejection of Sir Henry Parkes as a candidate for the
Senate.
The Miss Gertrude Blood, who is soon to be
married to the Lord Colin Campbell, son of the Duke
of Argyll, is the daughter of Victoria C. Woodhull. In
due time, if this story is true, Mrs. Woodhull will be
connected in a distant and roundabout way with the
royal family itself.
The Victorian Common Law Bar is now almost
destitute of leaders in the best sense in which that
term is used. The Dawsons, Fellowses, Irelands,
Aspinalls, and Sewells have passed away, leaving only
two contemporaries in the persons of Sir Archibald
Michie, Q.C., and Mr. Billing, Q.C. The recent eleva-
vation of Mr. Highinbotham and Mr. Hartley Williams
to the Bench has left a wide field for the juniors. Mr.
Purves is at the head of the criminal practice, but the
recent elevations will be the means of bringing forward
Mr. Hodges (a pupil of Mr. Williams), Mr. Fink, Mr.
Neighbour, and others, and of giving greatly increased
practice to Mr. Molesworth, Mr. Walker, and M’Far-
land.
A letter has been received from our old friend,
Mr. Julian Thomas (“ The Vagabond”), who, some time
ago, left by the ship Woodbine for Shanghai. The
vessel, it appears, was within a minute of coming to
grief on the D’Entrecasteaux reef, north of New Cale-
donia, but luckily she j ust shaved the danger and got
safely away. At Shanghai, “The Vag.” made himself
known to the Press people, and was heartily welcomed
—by, among others, Mr. William Mayhew, son of
William Mayhew, one of the well-known brothers of
that surname. Mr. Thomas intended going from
Shanghai to Puget Sound; thence back to Sydney.
Some sketches, written during the voyage, will appear
hortly—probably in The Argus.
Major Black, Mayor of Xiama,
-died on Monday. Apoplexy.
Horace Brinsmead, the amateur
champion boxer, is in Townsville.
Mr. James Perry has been ap-
pointed secretary of the Association
Cricket Ground.
Colonel Anderson, of Victoria,
who lately underwent a surgical opera-
tion, is not improving.
Baron Miklouho Maclay intends
to join General Fielding’s Transconti-
nental party at Cloncurry.
Admiral Lessoffsky, commanding
the Russian squadron in the Pacific,
has been ordered te return to St. Peters-
burg.
Rev. Father Leeming is lecturing
in America on “Justice for Ireland."
Can this be our own Leeming, turned
patriot ?
Messrs. Collier and Halliday,
who are in Gres. Lukin’s big swim, have
made a big inspection of the westerly
lands offered in retnrn for railways.
Giteau, who attempted to assas-
sinate President Garfield, used to
lecture to the Young Men’s Christian
Association at New York. This ex-
plains all.
Mr. Brush, the inventor of the
electric light, was at one time so im-
pecunious that a call loan of five
dollars was difficult to negotiate. He
now has the consolatory income of
|lOOO dollars a day.
Earl Clanwilliam has been pro-
moted from Rear-Admiral to Vice-
Admiral. It is thus that our gallant
commanders fight their way to supreme
commands, and become a terror to the
enemies of Old England.
General Fielding and party, re-
presenting English capitalists willing
to engage in the Queensland Transcon-
tinental railway construction, left Bris-
bane for Point Porker on Thursday last,
and will survey back towards Roma,
*i g. Cloncurry.
-Curbing to single girls. Mr. D.
Deftrt. the favourite purser of the
Pacific mail steamer Australia, has
arrived in the Benedict condition this
time. Applications for the return of
looks of hair must be made before noon
to-day, or they will not be entertained.
Mr. Russel, lately proprietor of
the Gtmpie Miner, has, it is said, been
appointed Queensland Immigration
Lecturer for Scotland. Salary £3OO,
and expenses. Mr. Russel was, not
long ago, book-keeper to a Brisbane
linen-draper, and was sacked for acting
as secretary to the Early Closing
Association. Previous to this, Mr.
Russel was secretary of the Brisbane
Freethought Association. He is a man
of much energy and intelligence, and
should prove a valuable officer in his
new sphere.
This is the obituary which Rochefort writes of
Count Roger du Nord, a highly respectable old gentle-
who had not only been for many years a member
tv ® enate . but was also one of the original members
otthe Jockey Club. Rochefort says Count Roger
ua Nord is dead. He was a friend of M. Thiers. Need
add more?”
Melbourne Age of Saturday last published
letter from Mr. F. J. Martin, of Kew, who defies Mr.
prove a single cure he has effected, and also
-ows that the testimonials published by him as ema-
“Om several respectable persons, have been
without the knowledge or consent of the
persons who are alleged to have written them.
Oamaru Caledonian Society’s bursary of
tt_ • tenable for three years, was won by Frederick
"J 6 ;. the District High School. There were 13
Y^ petltorB, A special prize of £5 (the gif', of Lady
an( * Dalgety), was divided between the
v dd competitor (Angus Poison) and the girl getting
highest number of points (Flora Fleming).)
Mr. Tebbutt, the well-known astronomer, of
Windsor, rubs down the pro-vaccinators of the
Medical Association, in a letter published by the S. M.
Herald.
Mrs. Catherine Webster, a female lunatic who
refused nourishment since December last, and was only
sustained by milk forced through her clenched teeth,
died in Auckland Auxiliary Asylum.
The appointment to the Mount Browne Goldfields
Wardenship of Mr. W. H. L. Slee, who for a lengthened
period has ably filled the position of Inspector of Mines,
gives much satisfaction in his new district.
Dr. Macfarlane, Superintendent of the New
Norfolk Lunatic Asylum, Tasmania, is about to be
married to the graceful and accomplished niece of
Lady Officer.
The agent of the Simonsen Opera Company at
Hobart ran away with the manager’s daughter, the
other day, but “ All’s well that ends well,” and the
announcement of their happy union was published in
the local rag the next day.
It has been proposed to allow the widow of the
late R. C. Bagot, secretary of the V.R.C., a pension of
£2OO for life. The question has been referred to a
special committee, with an expression of opinion that a
lump sum would be preferable.
Dr. E. O. Giblin has been appointed Health
Officer in Hobart. This is a step in the right direction.
Dr. Giblin being a young and thoroughly practical man.
In the competition for the billet, the “ Meejor" was
nowhere.
Of Louis Philippe’s sons four are now living—
the Dukes of Nemours, Aumale, and Montpensier, and
the Prince de Joinville. All have sons except the Due
d’Aumale. Their nephew, the Count de Paris, son of
their eldest brother, has bow but one son, the Due
d’Orleans, having lately lost his second son. Prince
Jacques. The Due d’Orleans, a boy of 11, is now heir
to both the senior and junior branches of his house,
inasmuch as in August, 1873, his father, on his visit to
the Count de Chambord at Frohsdorf, was declared by
him to be his political heir. The young Duke seems to
be of a character not unlike Fenelon's pupil, the Duke
of Burgundy—headstrong, passionate, and difficult to
manage—yet in j udicious hands capable of being formed
into a valuable character. He may, indeed, live to
make a good many pages of history.
A well-advertised Major of the New South Wales
Artillery, contemplates taking himself and his uniform
to England, with a view of inducing the “ mem-sahib ” to
return with him to the arena of his arduous duties.
We are requested to mention, with reference to
a paragraph on the subject, which appeared a fortnight
ago, that it is not true that Mr. Coote has been en-
gaged as leader-writer for the Brisbane Observer.
There is in a town where a certain ghost walks,
a hairdresser who has put over the mirror (which faces
the chair for people to sit on while being shaved, etc.,)
a photo of himself, highly tinted, etc., in a gilt frame.
Mr. James Powell has accepted the appointment
as Collector for Customs, rendered vacant by the resig-
nation of Mr. W. A. Duncan, C.M.G., who retires on a
pension.
Mr. J. X. O’Meagher, solicitor, has died at
Grafton. The local muffin-wrap, in an obituary, says
"he was a staunch Orangeman, and was highly re-
spected by all classes.” Everybody knows how loftily
Roman Catholics respect Orangemen.
Sir George Straohan, Governor of Tasmania,
will leave England for the seat of his Government about
the 12th October. The apparent reason for his long
delay is, that he might enjoy himself on a Scotch moor
during the months of August and September.
John T. Palmer, who was killed last Sunday
week through falling over the rocks at Ooogee, was one
of the seventeen saved from the ill-fated ship Fiery
Star, burnt at sea off the Chatham Islands, in April,
1865, on the voyage from Brisbane to London. The
vessel had previously been named The Comet.
Marcus Clarke is dead! —at the early age of 34
years. The gap thus created in the ranks of Australian
literary men is the widest Death’s scythe could have
made at any one stroke. Mr. Clarke was, beyond all
comparison, the most brilliant author Australia has yet
been able to lay claim to. His was not a career which
can be dismissed in a few words, or with the conven-
tional platitudes appropriate to memorialising deceased
lucky tradesmen or wily politicians. We shall, there-
fore, have more to say anon. Marcus Clarke was a
frequent contributor to The Bulletin. So short and
severe has been his last illness —congestion of the lungs
—that some of his “ copy ’’ is not yet in type, while in
this issue of The Bulletin are some of the last para-
graphs which ever came from his facile pen.
At a ball given by Mr. Belmont, of New York,
during the civil war, the present Lord Hartington ap-
peared with the rebel cockade pinned to his coat and
was made to remove it by one John Hecksher, His
Lordship explained that the cockade in question was
attached to his coat by a lady, and that he did not, at
that time, know what it meant. But, then. Lord Har-
tington never does know what things mean until h© s
called to account for them.
When Judge Hely said that he would stop hia
libel action against the Northern Miner conditionally
on Thadeus O’Kane paying £2O costs, and apologising
in four newspapers, Thadeus intimated in his journal
that he was ready to apologise in 4000 papers, to efface
himself, to grovel—to do anything. He was prepared to
“ sit in sack-cloth and ashes, to stand at the door of St.
Columbia’s or St. Paul’s Church in penitential garb—a
white sheet and the longest candle that Buckland and
Co. can turn out, and with peas in his boots. We can’t
get further than that; if the Judge is not satisfied, he
must be a ‘ whale ’at apologies. We offered him one
before, written out by his own solicitor, and published
it in twelve newspapers, at a cost of £2 —80 drinks."
Some time since a gentleman waited upon Sir
Henry Parkes at the Colonial Secretary’s office. Sir
Henry was very busy, but he appeared to listen with
such great patience and interest to the remarks of the
visitor, that the latter was encouraged to proceed, and
went on at a great rate —felt quite at home in fact.
Suddenly, however, the Premier held out his arm at
full length in the air, letting his fingers curve towards
the floor, and looking distressed and absent. The inter-
viewist, who by this time had concluded that Parkes
was really a civil fellow who had been grossly slandered,
pulled up suddenly to allow of the Knight making an
interjection. “ You were going to make some remark—
you were going to say something—were you not, Sir
Henry ? " “ Yes," replied the Premier, in his childish
treble, “ I was going to say, ‘ Good day 1’ ” The man
to whom this catastrophe eccurxed never tells the story.
But somebody else does.
Gambetta, the other day, visited his father at
Cahors, his birth place. Anyone walking through
Cahors sees, to this day, a provincial shop, resembling
a country store in an Australian township, with
crockery-ware, sugar, and treacle in the window, and a
large board with the name of Gambetta, Jeune, et Cie.,
fastened over the door. This was, not very long ago,
the home of M. Gambetta’s father, and it was under the
counter of the shop, and among the brooms and brushes
that stand in front of the door, that the present Presi-
dent of the Chamber of Deputies, and the probable
future President of the French Republic, played as a
boy. Gambetta pure has ceded the apron of office to a
successor, but he still lives at Cahors. There was such
a vast crowd (though Cahors is but a poor place) and
such an officious struggling forward of mayor and pre-
fect, councillors-general, and soldiers, that the old man
had some ado to reach the spot where the great man
descended. Gambetta threw himself on his father's
neck with the effusiveness of a child of the South, and
shed genuine tears of emotion as he embraced him.
The shop bearing his name was hung with flags; the
deputations read addresses of welcome all the way to
the hotel, and cries of “ Vive la Prance," “ Vive Gam-
betta,” “Vive la Republique," resounded in every
direction.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Bishop Stanton contemplates visiting the
Palmer shortly.
The Russian church has 420 cathedrals, 31,303
Churches, and 12,403 Chapels,
Canon Liddell is likely to succeed the late Dean
Stanley at Westminster Abbey.
The Rev. Father Leeming is lecturing at Pro-
vidence, U.S., on Justice for Ireland.
A Catholic congress will be held
in Madrid in October, which will be at-
tended by Catholic notabilities from
every part of the world.
Anew Anglican church, St. Sepul-
chre’s, was consecrated at Auckland, by
Bishop Cowie and 59 clergymen. It is
said to be the handsomest wooden
church in N.Z.
The Rev. John Alexander Dowie
has laid an information against the
Commissioner of Police at Adelaide for
obstructing the Salvation Army on the
war-path.
A Grafton clergyman startled his
congregation last Sunday, by preaching
a powerful sermon in opposition to the
idea of a material Hell. The minds of
the Grafton people are now so unsettled
that they won’t know which way to turn
when they die.
Dr. Beach, of St. Peter’s Episco-
pal Church, of New York, says : “ I
objeet to teetotal methods. We have
sins enough already without making
one out of the drinking a glass of wine.
I counsel total abstinence to the man
who cannot drink without becoming
drunk,”
In Holy Russia, a newly built
church, belonginging to the “Old Be-
lievers,” has just been pulled down by
order, and the material sold. The
Golos says:—“lt’s no wonder discon-
tent prevails, when the people are not
even allowed to follow the faith of
their fathers.”
The oldest wharf-expounder in
Australia is probably Mr. Virtue, of
Melbourne, who is 81 years of age. Mr.
Virtue received a University education,
which seems t» have been of small use
to him. He should be educated enough
and old enough to know that ranting
on a wharf is not much account nowa-
days.
The Paris surgeons (no less than
seventy of them) engaged in hospital
practice should have protested again st
the decision of the Council of Surveil-
lance, which has replaced the Sisters
of Charity by ordinary nurses. “ Cleri-
calism," it appears has nothing to do
with it, for the Paris doctors are mostly
Freethinkers, but they affirm that there
are certain qualities of experience and
discipline in the Sisters not to be found
in hirelings.
No small stir has been created in
Italy by the appearance of Father
Curoi’s book. Such an outspoken piece
of clerical liberalism has never before
startled the ultramontanism of the
Vatican. His demolition of Pius IX.
will astonish and enlighten the mass
of devotees who have hitherto regarded
that prelate as almost a saint. Father
Curci lays bare the existing abuses in
the Roman Church, and gives his opinion
very freely concerning the present Pope
and his Cardinals. Every effort was
made by the Curia to prevent the publi-
cation of the work, hut without avail.
A subscription list in aid of the persecuted
Jews in South Russia has been opened in Melbourne.
Tommy Spurgeon will fill the pulpit of the Auck-
land Baptist minister, the Rev. Allan Webb, while that
gentleman visits Adelaide.
Mr. Dalgetty, of the firm of Dalgetty, Nichols,
and Co., of Dunedin, has presented the Bishop of Christ-
church with £5OO for general church purposes.
Lady Wilson has promised a memorial window
in the new cathedral of Christchurch, N.Z., in memory
of her late husband. Sir Cracroft Wilson. The cathedral
will not be opened till October.
The book of the General Presbyterian Council
gives the number of Presbyterians in the world at
about 3,000,000 communicants and about 12,000,000
adherents to the several Presbyterian bodies.
The Bishop of Northern Queensland, on his
return to Townsville, conducted a confirmation service,
at which twenty-one females and seven males were
MR. G. W. F. ADDISON, P.M., MAITLAND.
PARKESOVITCH AND JACKOFFSKY: A LITTLE MACHINE FOR THE UPPER HOUSE.


ONCE MORE!
There is a pretty local superstition that if yon. drink the waters of the fountain of Trevi before
leaving, you are sure to return to the Eternal City, drawn thither by the potent spell which you have
thus invoked. The
PALACE EMPORIUM,
being an institution founded in more recent times (although, it is true, its founders can point to a
commercial career of some 60 years), has no such tradition handed down from the remote ages of the
past. But the spell, it would seem, exists nevertheless. For those who are once induced to step
within its portals are seldom content with a single visit. Again and again they go, as if by some
irresistible impulse. It is said you must go by moonlight to that historic shrine beneath the shadow
of St. Peter’s ere the enchantress will put forth her magic wand ; but at tne
PALACE EMPORIUM/
come when you will—by moonlight or sunshine, cloud or fair—the spell is ever’aotive. However, to
see it in perfection, you should go by gas-light. The sight then is dazzling—the long tier of exhibition
oases extending down the centre of the main building for a distance of 200 feet—the contents of the
oases varying from day to day, as each fresh shipment reaches us from the hands of the manufacturers :
both are a source of wonder to all who see them. At the present time, more than ordinary skill has
been evinced in the dressing of the cases, in view of the various festivities of the present season; and
any afternoon, after half-past four, the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
may be seen in all its glory—a eight wondrous to behold
ONE CASE is devoted to SILKS and SATINS of every conceivable hue, and includes
BLACK AND COLOURED GROS GRAIN SILKS
BLACK, WHITE. AND COLOURED SATINS
OMBRE RAYE SILKS AND SATINS
STRIPED GLACE SILKS
SATIN DE LYON. Black and Coloured
EADZ DE MORT
FANCY OMBRE
MERVEILLEUX SILKS, Plain and Striped.
ANOTHER CASE is fitted with EVENING FLOWERS, and the effect is unique to a degree.
SEVERAL CASES are devoted entirely to an ever-varying display of FANCT GOODS, such aa
SHADED RIBBONS
SET COLLARETTES, from lid
LADIES’ TARTAN NECKERCHIEFS, all prices
WINTER GLOVES OP ALL KINDS
WIDE PLUSH RIBBONS, from 5d per yard
SCARF LACES, SHADED LACES. &o. Ac.
The USEFUL, as well as the ORNAMENTAL, is equally well represented. There are
DRESS MATERIALS, ad infinitum !
MANCHESTER MANUFACTURES, such as FLANNELS, SHEETINGS, &o.
BLANKETS of a’l sizes and prices, of which the favourite is the GUINEA
BLANKET, unequalled in this city at 27s 6d.
In a word, the wants of all may be supplied at prices that cannot be approached elsewhere in the
colony. In conclusion, we would respectfully point out that the
PALACE EMPORIUM,
AT THE
HAYMARKET,
is onr ONLY ESTABLISHMENT, and we trust none will be misled by a similarity of name.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
s
s
8
8
8
INGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Have opened a Depot in
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES'.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
BEST TERMS TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for address of nearest Agent.
8
INQER’S, THE BEST FOR FAMILIES.
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
8
INQER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
8
INGER’S, BEST FOB DRESSMAKERS.
SINGER’S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequalled.
8
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly.
INGER’S THE BEST FOR TAILORS,
See the New No. 4 Machine.
8
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
SINGER’S, THE BEST FOR BOOTMAKERS,
See the New No. 4 Yibrating-Presser Machine.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES
HAND OR TREADLE. *"
RINGER’S, JThe The HAND FAMILY
8
8
MACHINE —Light to Work, Light to Carry.
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
INGER’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
SINGER’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES-
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
SINGER’S THE BEST and MOST DURABLE.
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
ADDRESS: THE
SINGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
No. 1 BARLING STORES, Harbour-street, Sydney.
gINQEB’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 George-street. Hay market, Sydney,
have been appointed agents for these celebrated
machines.
Call and see them—Month’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Professional Addresses
M
M
R. M. S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
— R. AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON.
(Zulu Wak).
ON TOUR:
Imperial Hotel, Adelaide, till 21st June.
Western Australia to follow.
|Contain Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and the Purest and Best
Medical Qualities of all other Bitters.
\ They cure all Diseases of the Stomach, Blood, Bowels, Liver, Kidney, & Urinary Organs
Do not suffer yourself or let your friends suffer, f* r°- Will be paid for a Case
but use and urge them to use Hop Bitters cm** ’•—* ■ they will not cure or help.
Ask your Druggist for Hop Bitters, and try them before you Sleep. Take no other
MONTEFIOEE, STUAET & CO., 65 Pitt-st, Sydney,
SOLI', AGENTS FOR AU THE COLONIES OP AUSTRALASIA.
medicine: not a drink.
Next Saturday,
AT 3 P.M.,
ON THE GROUND.
LEICHHARDT, LEICHHARDT,
the
PICK of the WHOLE NEIGHBOURHOOD.
CORNER SHOPS, DETACHED HOUSES and COT-
TAGES, TERRACES, and ALLOTMENTS of LAND.
TITLE, TORRENS’. TITLE, TORRENS’.
TERMS. THE EASIEST.
«■ INSPECTION PARTICULARLY INVITED.
BATT, RODD, and PURYES,
Auctioneer.
rjIHE INDIAN TEA BOOMS.
PUKE FEAGEANT INDIAN TEA,
Fresh from the Gardens, grown under European super-
vision, and sold in Original Packages, 101 b and upwards.
Samples, Press Notices, Analyses, and Price Lists on
Applic ition.
Special Kates for Large Orders.
A delicious Tea in the cup. No Chinese admixtures.
Goes twice as far as the best Chinese teas.
We challenge comparison with our INDIAN TEAS
for Leaf, Strength, Flavour, and Analyses, sgainst all
or any of the China teas imported this season.
INGL I S, NIXON, & CO.,
INDIAN PEODUCE MEECHANTS,
INSUEANCE AND GENEKAL AGENTS,
7 Bridge-street Chambers.
Leichhaedt.— sale on the ground
NEXT SATUEDAY, at 3. Houses, Shops, Cot-
tages, &c.
BATT, KODD, and PUEVES.
J S. ABEAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomel or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, in all conditions, con
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES. ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. A B E A H A M,
At the Laboratory,
434 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LEICHHAEDT.— SALE ON THE GEOUND
NEXT SATURDAY, at 3. Houses, Shops, Cot-
tages, *o. BATT, RODD, and PURVES.
confirmed. The ohnrch was thronged with friends and
visitors to witness the ceremony.
While listening to a sermon in a New Orleans
church, two young men, named Cassard and Sanchez,
got into a dispute, and went outside to settle it The
account in a New Orleans newspaper closes as follows :
“ Five rounds were fought in the presence of a large
part of the congregation."
Henry Well wood Moncrieff, Secretary of the
Scottish Bible Board, in answer to an anxious inquirer,
states that in Great Britain the new revised version of
the Scriptures will not, on its publication, become an
authorised translation, or supersede the present one.
That, he says, can only be after the Queen has adopted
it and allowed the substitution. When, if ever, such
adoption and allowance will take place it is impossible
to say. Objections may be taken to the revisal. Its
publication now is only to enable the public and all
authorities to judge of it. It may be approved, but it
may also be disapproved of, in which event another
revision will be necessary before the St. James version
is superseded. The probable outcome of this business
will be about 400 new sects. This hanging on to see
what the Queen thinks about it, savours of Erastianism.
Trouble about the New Version has already
commenced in Melbourne. Bishop Moorhonse holds
that the new readings afford "a clearer exhibition of
the symbolic character of those passages which
describe the nature of future punishment, and the
uncertainty of many of the expressions which describe
its duration." Dr. Macdonald, on the other hand, will
not allow that the Calvanistio view has been softened,
and he cites, approvingly, the substitution of “the
Evil One’ for ‘evil’ in the Lord’s Prayer as a wel-
come and salutary confirmation of the personality of
Satan, which many weaker minds in the present day
have grown to doubt." Therefore, while Dr. Moor-
house welcomes the work of the revisers as giving a
milder view of the scheme of Providence, Dr. Mac-
donald sternly hails it as intensifying the “ dark side of
eternity,” which previously was not sufficiently sombre
for his taste. And he is glad to find that " the devil,
hell, and eternal punishment,” loom more 11 darkly and
strongly than before” In the view of the orthodox
believer.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Serious riots at Tralee.
Prince Napoleon demands a plebiscite.
French Chamber of Deputies dissolved.
Captain Boycott has returned to Ireland.
Garfield’s recovery is considered assured.
Anti-Jewish riots in Russia and Germany.
Another earthquake at Agram, in Hungary.
Tunisians'still sturdily resisting the French.
Cabes (Tunis) has been occupied by French
troops.
No interference from England re Ayoub-Khan’s
victory.
Gosohen, ex-Miniater at Constantinople, ban-
queted at London.
Wallace Boss has challenged Hanlan to row for
the championship.
The docks at Leith have been opened by the
Duke of Edinburgh.
Parnell suspended fer one night’s sitting in
Parliament, Ist August.
Nihilist conspiracy to kill the C zar at Moscow.
Alexander suddenly left.
The ©rient liner John Elder arrived at Suez,
from Australia, July 29th.
General Election for French Chamber of
Deputies fixed for 21st August.
Cetewayo asks to be released and allowed to
lead the Zulus against the Boers.
Rumoured that skilled artisans left New York
to conduct explosions in Europe.
Landlord named Swanton shot at Ballydehob,
00. Cork, Ireland. Murderer escaped.
American papers are indignant at recent attempt
to land infernal machines at Liverpool.
Bismarck has regained health. The Socialists
have threatened him with a violent death.
French have occupied the island Jerba, in the
Gulf of Cabes, without meeting opposition.
Hartmann, the Nihilist concerned in the attempt
to blow up the Winter Palace, is in America.
Public feeling favours the release of Cetewayo.
A petition has been presented to Mr. Gladstone.
An infernal machine, composed of dynamite,
has been discovered hidden in a Glasgow steel works.
A jury of Boers have acquitted their country-
men charged with the murder of Captain Malcolmson.
Italian explorers have traversed Egypt, and
crosssed Africa, on a colonizing expedition to Guinea.
The Irish Land Bill has been read a first time in
the House of Lords. The trouble is about to com-
mence.
The English Government has warned the French
that if they meddle with Tripoli England will
interpose.
A public banquet, proffered to the Government
by the Liberals of England, has been declined by Mr.
Gladstone.
Ayoub Khan has thoroughly whipped Abdul
Rahman, dispersing his troops and capturing his guns
and baggage.
Second reading of the Irish Land Bill passed in
House of Lords. Lord Salisbury advocated “ radical
amendments."
Orders have been given for British troops to
concentrate anew at Quetta, in consequence of Ayoub-
Khan’s victories.
The Conservatives attempted to postpone the
third reading of the Irish Land Bill in the House of
Commons, and failed.
Eight of passage through the Transvaal to be
granted to British troops. Obviously necessary that
they should have permission.
Bradlaugh has applied for a new trial of
Clarke’s case against him for sitting in Parliament on
“ swear-not-at-all ’’ principles
Hudson, Colonial Secretary, has been ap-
pointed British Resident at the Transvaal, under the
Treaty now concluded with the Boers.
The French Minister for Foreign Affairs has
announced authoritatively that the Government have
no intention of annexing the province of Tripoli.
Mr. Newdegateis moving to get Mr. Bradlaugh
imprisoned if the latter persists in refusing to pay the
penalties inflicted for having sat in Parliament and
sworn not at all.
A claimant for the sole chieftainship has turned
up in Zululand, and threatens to upset the division
into four districts. John Dunn, the English chief of
one district, has 3000 men ready to fight the disturber,
and only awaits British leave.
Since Abdul-Eahman was defeated by Ayoub-
Khan, the whole of the former’s cavalry has gone over
to the victor. Abdul-Bahman is at Candahar with a
slender garrison, and probably powerless to hold the
place. Ayoub captured half a lac of rupees, and is new
before Candahar.
A great deal of astonishment is expressed by
some folks at the quiet manner in which the Temper-
ance people are taking the insult offered to them by Sir
'Enry, in the shape of his sham Licensing Bill. A
glance at the following names will, however, remove all
cause for wonder. The leading men of the temperance
party number amongst them John Davies, whipper-in
to the Government; Thos. L. Nicholson, Government
clothing contractor ; John Wright, George Stevenson,
A. M’Leod Davis, civil servants; David M’Beath, J.P.,
late City Architect j and U. W. Carpenter, Town Hall
Plasterer.


SATtTE DAT NEXT.
THE TERRACE ESTATE,
BANDWICK.
SPLENDID AREA OP LAND,
subdivided in
GRAND OCEAN VIEW SITES.
A ■
SECTION 1 consists of THIRTY-SIX ALLOTMENTS,
as follows: —
12 ALLOTMENTS BELMORE ROAD
11 ALLOTMENTS DUDLEY-STREET
13 ALLOTMENTS NATHAN-STEEET.
Each allotment has about 40 FEET FRONTAGE, by
depths varying from 130 feet to 290 feet.
SECTION 2 consists of EIGHTEEN ALLOTMENTS,
as follows:
9 ALLOTMENTS STAEK-STEEET
9 ALLOTMENTS CARE-STRBET.
Each allotment has about 40 FEET FRONTAGE, by
about 1 tO feet deep.
*** The TERRACE ESTATE commands a GRAND
FRONTAGE to the BELMORE ROAD (the main road
to COOGEE, along which the TRAMWAY will shortly
be constructed), is ELEVATED and TERRACED, and
commands MAGNIFICENT VIEWS of the OCEAN
and the surrounding country.
TITLE, FREEHOLD.
PLAN ON VIEW AT THE ROOMS.
HARDIE and GORMAN have received in-
structions to sell by public auction,
ON THF GROUND, at 3.30 p.m.,
NEXT SATURDAY, 6th AUGUST,
The above described ESTATE, situate opposite
the property of Alderman Edward Herdem,
commanding laage frontages to BELMORE and
the LONG BAY ROADS, now subdivided by
Mr. Surveyor Atchison into villa sites, as per
lithos. at the Rooms.
W GOOD VILLA SITES at RAND WICK are now
eagerly sought after. The sale of the TERRACE
ESTATE will give buyers a chance of securing GRAND
SITES in this favourite locality.
W Each allotment has a good frontage to a wide
street, with a great depth, making the land well
adapted for the erection of Villas, Houses and Cottages.
LITHOGRAPHS MAY BE OBTAINED AT OUR
BOOMS.
DAY OF SALE, 6th AUGUST.
%* SPECIAL TEAM will convey INTENDING
PURCHASERS to the Ground on DAY of SALE,
FREE OP CHARGE.
V TICKETS may he OBTAINED at the ROOMS.
T
HEA T R E
R
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Acting Manager Mr. G. L. Goodman.
ENGLISH OPERA COMIQUE SEASON,
under the Direction of Mr. George Musgrove.
AN UNQUALIFIED TRIUMPH,
achieved in the production of the latest and greatest of
Offenbach’s works,
LA FILLB DU TAMBOUR MAJOR.
In preparation, the latest novelty in the musical world,
OLIVETTE, by Andran.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at ten minutes to 8
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may he pur-
chased during the day at H. Solton’s, tobacconist, 116
King-street, near Emerson’s.
HENRY E. HARWOOD, Business Manager.
AIETT THEATRE.
MONT AGUE-TURNER OPERA COMPANY.
FRIDAY and SATURDAY, AUGUST 5 and 6,
Wallace’s Romantic Opera,
MARITANA.
In active preparation,
Donizetti’s famous and beautiful Opera,
LUCIA DI LAMMERMOOR.
Conductor ... .Monsieur LEON CARON.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
OPERA HOUSE.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS. CONTINUED APPLAUSE.
Under the management of
Mr. WYBERT REEVE,
who will appear EVERT EVENING as
THE CRUSHED TRAGEDIAN,
with a most powerful Company, including
Mr. W. J. HOLLOWAY and Miss ANNIE TAYLOR*
specially engaged.
Byron’s Comedy Drama,
THE CRUSHED TRAGEDIAN.
New Scenery by Mr. W. J. Wilson.
Prices of Admission : ss, 3s, 2s, and Is.
Bonnets not allowed in the Dress Circle.
BATT, RODD, and PURVES will sell NEXT
SATURDAY, on the GROUND, at 3 p.m . the
PICK of the WHALEYBOROUGH ESTATE, LEIGH-
HARDT.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT. EASIEST OF TERMS.
Plan at the Rooms.
BATT, RODD, and PURVES will sell NEXT
SATURDAY, on the GROUND, at 3 p.m., the
PICK of the WHALEYBOROUGH ESTATE. LEICH-
HARDT.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT. EASIEST OF TEEMS.
Plan at the Rooms.
The wonderful wertheim
SEWING MACHINES, without hand-folding,
tacking (or basting), without the use of soap or sperm,
without any pulling or pushing of the work, will make
vary fine double seams or fells; will kilt to any width,
braid, make their own braid, bind, cord, ruffle, gather,
sew on ribbons and trimmings, tuck, hem to any
width, make frills, quilt, hem, and bind on the bias;
embroider curtains or antimacassars, and generally do
all household and factory sewing. Any of these kinds
of work will be shown at our offices. Machines for all
trades can be supplied. They are simple to learn, light
in running, strong, handsome, and durable. Any
machine may be had on trial, ENTIRELY FREE OF
CHARGE. Instruction at YOUR OWN HOMES,
free. Every WERTHEIM Machine sold by us will be
KEPT IN REPAIR and working order for TWO
YEARS from the date of purchase, altogether FREE
OF COST, NO INTEREST, NO EXTRA CHARGE
on price list for TIME PAYMENT.
Any machine delivered at your own house for trial
and inspection FREE OF CHARGE. Price lists and
samples by post. Country agents supplied upon
liberal terms. BEALE and COMPANY, Qeorge-
street, near Market-street, and 612 BRICKFIELD
HILL; Hunter-street, Newcastle ; Howick-street,
Bathurst. No matter in what part of the colony yon
live, we will supply you with a WERTHEIM
MACHINE upon TIME PAYMENT. WITHOUT
NTEREST.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 22nd Jnly, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the under-
mentioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from
this date, they will be declared void.
E. A. BAKES.
No. 926; W. H. Martin and others; portion No. KL
91; county of Clive, parish of Annandale; 20 acres.
Application No., Vegetable Creek 292.
No. 930; A. Fraser and others; portion No. 28;
county of Clive, parish of Eockvale; 20 acres. Appli-
cation No., Vegetable Creek 363.
No. 934; W. Wollomsand another; portion Nos. 1,2,
and 13; county of Qough, parish of Frazer; 60 acres.
Application No., Vegetable Greek 339.
No. 950; Peter Stahl and another; portion No. 55;
county of Gough, parish of Wellington Vale; 20 acres.
Application No., Vegetable Creek 392.
No. 951; Henry Smith; portion No. 53; county of
Gough, parish of Wellington Vale; 20 acres. Applica-
tion No., Vegetable Creek 393.
Leichhardt.— sale on the groun
NEXT SATUEDAST, at 3, Hous es. Shops, Co
fo crpa Art*
BATT, EODD, and PUEVES.
COTTISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE
' COMPANY.
CAPITAL £1,000,000.
FIEE BISKS AT LOWEST BATES.
INGLIS, NIXON, & CO.,
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BRIDGE BTEEET CHAMBEES.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country.
THE advertiser, holding a good position in
the Queensland Civil Service, with a salary
o £4OO, would like to exchange with a gentleman
(not an accountant) resident in Sydney, receiving
about equal salary, under the New South Wales
Government. Address: — Alpha, G.P.0., Brisbane.
. JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINE
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s 6d per week.
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT.
IHE LIGHT RUNNING STANDARD.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHIN
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.—TURNER
and CO. only recommend the Singer.
EMEMBER, THERE IS ONLY ONE SIN-
GEE MACHINE. See the name and Trade
Mark on the arm.
INGER’S MACHINES.—NO other NAME
applies to the Genuine Machines. TUENEB tt
CO., Agent, 353, George-street.
SINGER’S MACHINES. —Beware of German
Cast-iron imitations. Only Genuine Singer’s
sold at Turner and Co.’s.
£<INGER’S SEWING MACHINES, by arrange-
-3 ments with the Singer Company.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES, 10 per
cent, discount for cash, or on Time Payments m
SYDNEY—From TURNER and CO., 353
J GEOEGE STREET, opposite POST OFFICE.
FINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.—NOT ONE
5 but 160 FIEST PEIZES.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
••HOME’’ SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
S
o
M
C
2
A
*
&
*
TO effectually stop the deception that has been
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
720,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. L—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3. —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian “ Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, we will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS * CO.,
WYNYAED LANE, SYDNEY.
MT LOOK FOB THE NAM 111
Sydney Punch waa buried beneath the founda-
tion-stone of the Queen’s statue, The Bulletin wasn’t.
They couldn't bury a live paper.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
I was at a dinner, the other day, which was
• given immediately following one of those Trimalchian
banquets wherewith the gorgeous and joyous Beaney
entertains his clientele. You know Beaney, of course—
as good a little fellow as ever amputated a limb,
though prone to somewhat unprofessional display of
jewellery. “How is it," asked one of the gnests,
•‘ that though Beaney does such foolish things, he is
generally liked ?” “ Well,” said the person addressed,
«he is really a clever surgeon, and, moreover, no one
envies a man who is merely splendid.” The host
opened the book-case and took out “ Lothair.”
•‘Sir,” said he, “how Benjamin judged human nature.
Phoebus, the artist, who kept a locker in his yacht
which was filled with rough diamonds, excelled
Beaney, who merely wears one as big as
a pigeon’s egg—(by the way, has anybody seen a
pigeon’s egg ?)—on his finger ; but people did not envy
Phoebus. A man of splendour is always looked upon
with favour,” says the artist, in explanation, “his
appearance exihlarates the|heart of man. People wish
to dine with him, and to borrow his money, but they
do not envy him?” This is wonderfully true. I don’t
envy any rich man, but I will dine with him and
borrow his money, anytime.
He has had an action brought against him for
breach of promise. He has but recently re-
turned from a successful cattle tour in Queens-
land, and may be, therefore, supposed good for dam-
ages to an almost unlimited extent. Fortunately
for him, his astute lawyer managed to extract
from the forsaken one that during her nightly strollings
she was in the habit of carrying on her arm a small re-
ticule containing those accessories of the toilet without
which no well regulated female leaves her home. If
this was not a proof of malice prepense, it showed that at
any rate she was equal to the occasion, and the betting
in her favour has gone down in consequence.
Some gentle genius has been persuading the
susceptible manager to publish her balderdash in
the Argus, and three columns, headed “The Ideal
Man ” by “ M.A.Y.,” is last Saturday’s result.
“ The Ideal Man,” according to M.A.Y., is a
"corker.” He goes to church three times a day,
never plays billiards, and abhors beer. He lives “the
higher life,” and is a persistent advocate for Church of
England principles. He loves to wheel the perambu-
lator, and is seldom happier than when that useful
family vehicle contains twins. Should his wife—the
woman’s Ideal Man is always married—express a wish
to visit the seaside, the Ideal Man immediately takes
her there, merely enquiring “ how much money ” she
demands for her expenses. Altogether, a more sap-
less, pithless, imbecile than the Ideal Man can scarcely
be imagined; and were it not that such creatures as
those typified by Gowan Evans yet linger in secluded
spots, one would refuse to believe in the existence of
an organism purely, intellectually invertebriate,
Mr. Byron Moore has made his first appearance
as the secretary to the Victorian Racing Club, and with
marked success, at the Winter Steeplechase Meeting.
He has the talent of organization to an extent that
would evoke order out of the most mixed up chaos that
ever puzzled a creative Divinity, and a happy knack of
pleasing most people he is brought into contact with.
It is even admitted that for a fortnight after Black
Wednesday fever Mr. Berry went up back streets for
fear of meeting him on the way to the Treasury. His
■victim’s unruffled composure and assured expression of
his own good luck at having got out of “the Service,"
was too much for the “ man of iron.”
The Argus cannot forgive David Gaunson for
taking a rise out of Service. “ I will suppose,” said the
hon. member for Ararat during a debate, “ that the hon.
member for Maldon sold me a pound of tea—’’ “ Sir !”
ejaculated the other honorable—" sirr!— ’’ "I beg the
hon. member’s pardon,” answered the Araratian, with a
benign smile, “ I meant a chest of tea,” And the whole-
sale tea dealer snbsided with a wriggle. For the rest of
that session, too, he left David in peace.
Messrs. M‘Kean and Mirams have become bosom
friends—that is to say, as nearly bosom friends as Mr.
Mirams’ superior altitude would permit. What the
diminutive lawyer expects te get out of the gigantic
financier—unless he wants to .borrow his umbrella—no
one knows.
Yonr article on poor Franklyn’s account of
the “ dignity ball ” has set all Melbourne laughing.
*‘ Slobber! ” How fine a title—and how keen the appre-
ciation of the poor devil’s delight at being allowed to
get a “square meal” in the servants’hall. Mortimer
has got another “ Society sketch” in last week’s issue,
which is entitled "My Barber.” It is stated in Mel-
bourne circles that no man is better qualified to give
an opinion on “ Bartering ” than Mr. Pranklyn, who
has the reputation of being as light a hand with the
razor as any Schacabao between the City Road and the
Great Pacific Slope. He has never shaved me yet, but
I am hoping to get an opportunity, when he has done
shampooing the Winter Brothers, and .
“ I’ll bring an action against that Sydney
Bulletin,” said a young and lately drenched A.D.C.,
to a friend of mine, the other day. “ I don’t care about
his hinting at my being ducked—though it isn’t true—
but I won’t have my governor called an ‘old bird ’ by
any one. Who the deuce is *Le Pere Goriot ’ as he
styles himself ?” “ Softly, softly," replied my friend;
■■ softly, oh festive descendant of the astute galleon-
finder. ’Tis better to be an * old bird ’ than a ‘ young
goose.’ ‘Le Pere Goriot ’ is the best ‘ pistol ’ in Mel-
bourne, and his ‘ pal ’ (there’s two of them in the swim)
the quickest foil. Beware of the avalanche, my
A,D.C.” ‘LePere’ has not heard from the drenched
one as yet.
“Strike me dead,” said Master Hall, senior,
when he was charged with the murder of the little
Chinee boy—half-caste, near Geelong. “Strike m 3
dead if I did it.” He was a boy of tender years, with a
pleasing manner, and an easy hand on a penknife, so the
jury acquitted him. They rather like this kind of
thing in Geelong. It’s a lively place generally, and a
little something serious gi vesit a tone. Unfortunately
the killed boy was only a half-caste. Had he been a
full-Chinese. Master Hall would have received a medal.
Poor Wan See, you weren’t the first victim of this
sort, and you won’t be the last.
Lord Charles Scott writes that he wishes to
goodness people would leave him alone. He doesn’t go
about saying that the editor of the Church Messenger
is engaged to Jim Mace’s cousin, or that the “ sub.” of
the Wesleyan Cross has ran away with the wife of a
rural Dean. And he just wishes to be allowed to get
engaged or not, as he pleases. My Lord Charles, I
approve of your sentiments; and I remember an enquir-
ing reporter, in Melbourne, being once told by an aide-
de-camp, engaged to a Governor’s daughter, to “go to
blazes, and let him get married in peace.” But Lord
Charles needn’t be afraid, after all. If the report is
true, the lady’s ancestors have had something to do
with bovines, and the “ bold Buccleughs ” were rare
cattle-lifters in the olden day.
“ We are the lads of the snaffle and spur,”
gang- poor Gordon. They hang you for it now-a-days.
Ichabod! Ichabodl
So you have that charming actress, Mias Annie
Mayor with you. I am not surprised at her being a
success. All those who saw her hero spoke well of her,
and especially of her gentle and winning manner. It is
something, indeed, to see so many of our girls coming
to the front.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
’ “ West Maitland” : Of interest to but a small
coterie. Write on something of general interest,
and we shall be delighted to hear from you.
“J.E.T.”: Much obliged “ R.L." (Bourke):
Kindly write oftener “ Tourist” : Many thanks. A
great press of matter last week “Ivy" (Tamworth):
Just a little too late—dealt with last week. However,
kindly write again on similar subjects “F. 8.”:
There’s very little fun in your paragraph, which could
only interest a few, and might give offence “ Viola”:
Thanks “ H.C.” :We don’t see the point “ Chan-
dos”: Thanks. By all means “H. 8.1.”: Much
-obliged. Have used some. Drafts for acceptance. Next
week “ Mrs. D —Kindly call.
LATE SPORTING.
Racing in Tasmania is at a very low ebb.
Mr. John Bales ! has bought the winner of the
two big Maitland handicaps for 80 guineas.
A handball match took place at Wagga on Tues-
day, between Keenan and a local man, for £5O, resulting
in a victory for the former,
A match for £lOO aside, across country, one
mile, came off recently between P.G. and President.
The former j uraped off with the lead, and won by three
lengths. Each horse carried 9st.
A public handioapper is badly wanted in
Tasmania. Why don’t the two principal clubs combine
with the many country ones, and offer a fair and
reasonable salary to a competent man?
A race for homing pigeons took place on Satur-
day from Picton, 53 miles, and resulted in a win for Mr.
J. Williams’ bird, which homed in 60 minutes; Messrs.
King and Cleave’s birds being a dead heat for second
place, their time being 64 m.
In consequence of the Maitland Races having
been fixed for the 14th and 15th Sept., the Murrurundi
meeting has been postponed till the 21st. The date of
nomination is consequently altered to Aug. 30, and
declaration of weights to September 7.
The following twenty have Sheen selected to
represent N.S. W. in the Intercolonial Football Match:
—Nash, Young, Balhausen (2), Burns, Bull, Clay, Crisp,
Daly, Phillips, Jackson, Terry, Bandall, Pierce,
M’Namara (2), Hedger, ..O’Brien, Kellett, Martin;
emergencies. Harper, Druoe, and Wilkinson.
The Muswellbrook ball and races to-morrow
(Friday), likely to bo a success.
The concert and ball at Largs was exceedingly
successful. All the musicians were amateurs, and
acquitted themselves well.
While a learned counsel in N.Z. was cross-
examining a witness, and had occasion to ask the
question, “When was it that you went insolvent?"
“ Just before you went insolvent yourself, sir.” The
Court tittered, and the Magistrate interfered, inform-
ing the witness that he was not placed in the box to
return rude answers. The witness said that he had
not meant to be offensive, and apologised if ha had
hurt the learned counsel’s feelings. He ex-
plained that the reply he had given was meant to
enable the counsel to fix the date definitely, at which
another smile went round the Court.
A story, entitled “ The Adventures and Con-
quests of a Barmaid," is very appropriately appearing
in the Adelaide Licensed Victuallers’ Gazette, for
which paper it is said to have been “ expressly written
by a South Australian author.” The heroine com-
mences by telling us, as barmaids in real life often do,
that “my father was Lieut.-Colonel of the second bat-
tallion of a regiment of the line; my mother, a beauty
in her time, one of the most courted of,” &c. The sen-
tence with which she pulls up is, “ Shall I ever forget
the day when he first took a seda and b. from my
hands.—Ah, me 1” The novel is evidently of great pro-
mise.
A Cooktown paper says: — “During the six
mouths ending the 30th June last the Sandhurst reefs
paid £135,453 in dividends, as against £85,273 2s calls.
The highest return was 19 dwts, and the average
Hi dwts per ton. Our Maytown correspondent reported
last issue “the last crushing of the Ida yielded
f 79 oz.” about the usual rate of 3 oz. per ton, and the
Queen lower than usual at 3 oz., etc. The prejudice
against our climate, carried south by those diggers who
in 1875 drank too much and ate too little, and who en-
couraged ague by lying in damp and dew, must yield to
statistical facts and to the experience of Victorians now
on the field, who never enjoyed better health or were
better able to do a fair day’s work.
Mr. Figan, of the Central Police Court, gallantly
saved a drowning child at Circular Quay, on Tuesday.
" Honour where honour is due.” But we wish he had
a nicer name than Figan! However, “ what’s in a
name" —as long as the H.S.’s medal is all there?-*
which, of course, it will bo.
The Princes expressed themselves vastly pleased
with Messrs. Hudson Bros.’ Eedfern Foundry. They
saw the saw, and esteemed the steam-hammer; were
enchanted with the engine, and grew delirious at the
timber. And, what’s more,—recover your breath,
sceptics!—actually shook hands with Mr. Hudson, their
chaperon, whereupon Mr. Hudson went solemnly into a
corner, and, grabbing the nearest thing to a Koran that
he conld lay hands on in so short a notice, swore never
more to wash that hand again. After the visit, the
firm met, clasped one another by the hand, and
chuckled. Which was it to be—a K.C.M.G., or a
Baronetcy? Next morning would settle it. And so it
did. By the first post came the following delicately
complimentary communication : —“ Dear Sir, The
Princes have enjoyed exceedingly their visit to your
orangery, and will not fail to apeak of your beautiful
woods with the enthusiasm with which these (and your
lovely harbour) have inspired them. I enclose their
photographs, to which they have appended their signa-
tures, and trust that you will like them. Yours, etc.,
John Dalton.” Now when Messrs. Hudson Bros, are
congratulated- upon the honour done them, they smile
feebly, and “ talk about the weather.”
Produce Report.
Bulletin Office, August 2, 1881.
On the wharves, to-day, prime green lucerne is
selling at £3 to <£3 ss, ditto old hay £2 15s to .£3,
medium samples £2 10s per ton. The market is
overstocked with hay, and business is dull.
Maize is selling at 2s 7d to 2s 9d; oats 3s per
bushel for seed and feed; Circular-Head potatoes
£4< 15s, New Zealand ditto £3 10s to £3 15s per
ton; Victorian onions, .£ll per ton ; chaff, £5 per
ton, bags included. Butter, in kegs, 9d to Is 6d
per lb ; cheese, 4d to 8d; ham, 6d to 8d; lard 3d
to sd; honey 4d to sd; beeswax, 9d to lOd per
lb ; millet brooms 10s per doz.
Wheat Market is easier owing to the Vic-
torian people, notwithstanding their statistics,
having even now more breadstnffs than they re-
quire, and the Adelaide market, owing to home
crops being good, will have to find another outlet
besides South Africa to take their surplus.
Adelaide wheat ss, Victorian 4s 9d to ss, N.S.
Wales 4s 6d to ss, New Zealand 4s fid, 'End Laun-
ceston 4s 8d per bushel,
Flour Market. —Good brands of N.S. Wales
and Adelaide flour are firmly held for prices at our
quotations, and, as usual, country brands of
inferior qualities are easier. Sydney superfine
flour .£l2, household £ll, seconds £lO per ton.
N.S. Wales country brands £ll 15s to £l2;
Victorian,£lllos to £1210s; Adelaide,£ll to £l2
10s per ton. Bran and pollard Is 2d to Is 3d per
bushel.
Tobacco Leaf. —At auction sales, to-day,
medium samples realised 3|d per lb, but no first-
class lines were disposed of.
Fresh Meat. —At the Darling Harbour
railway terminus the fresh meat sales continue
well attended, with a ready demand. Prices have
recently advanced: prime beef selling from 2d to
2|-d per lb, all round.
Fat Cattle Market. —At the Homebush fat
stock sales, yesterday, 827 fat cattle were yarded.
A marked improvement in prices took place, one
lot of fine bullocks, from Dubbo, averaging no
less than £lO 19s per head. Another lot of 116,
also from iDubbo, averaging £8 16s, and others
from £5 2s upwards. 6400 sheep were penned,
and the supply on hand being large the prices
were|lower: the best lot|of wethers averaging only
13s 3d: others from 9s to 9s 6d:]one lot of 640
being passed.
Fowls, 3s to 4s per pair; ducks, 4s to 4s 6d
per pair; geese, 6a to 7s per pair. Market dull.


Miscellaneous
Q LIFFORD, LOYE AND CO.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHTJTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFIC S 79 YORK STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pump°*
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
rs
235
PITT STREET SYDNEY
BEAUTIFUL
Diag °M
OR
AILWOOL
Tq TWEED
Nr
TO
JSBw
TWEED
SUITS
MEASURE
3e3.Ss.
CI)T LENGTHS
AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
FROM
H LSUMMERFIELD
PITTSTSYDNEY.
PATTERNS
AND GUIDE TO SELF MEASUREMENT,
SENT, ON APPLICATION,
TO ANY PART OF THE COLONY.
E. GREER AND CO.'B
PRIZE
ALBURY WINES.
Red Wines s
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbeo
White Wines
Reisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
SYDNEY: Printed and published by the proprietors,
John Haynes and J. F. Archibald, at The Bulletin
Office, 13 Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHUENS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES,
Walnut
Wood,
See., See., Sto.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEOEGE STEEET.
ft
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, See.
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS SUNDRIES
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don't forget the Address—
Ton cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New Buildings. >
W. KERR,
manufactueing jewellee,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKEE,
664 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises.
DIAMOND SETTEE!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
*
KING STREET SYDNE
zrt _TAILOR
fo*GV
\/M-
S
m
°0
yoft*<4§
■&
AND POST OFFICE.
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
-S®" TO ORDER,"^t
FIT GUARANTEED!
Alt HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
BAZAAE,
FUENITUEE SHOW BOOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STEEET,
Established a.d. 1340.
A. MOOEE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, Ac., can
he purchased at the LABOUB BAZAAE at
rate than at any other house in the olonies.
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
A I.Kt ANDES MOOEE AND CO-
Manufacturers and Importers.
OUR WOODS
We post all Information FREE.
STRING BINDER
Is unquestionably
BEST ON ALL POINTS
THE
The Woods String Binder
las won more prizes than all
. other makes put together.
To the
The “ Woods is a
k Success, not an
\ experiment
FRONT
again
The
with
“Woods”
is
the
King
BEST
OUR PRI
We have
Two C zes
viz.,
£65 & £75
but recommend the
larger size as they w
harvest any crops grown
up to 7 feet high.
We will only have 75 lor
coming harvest so farmers order
early. Illustrated catalogues'
MARTIN & PAIN,
389 George St., Sydney.
We lead in the machinery business
STRIKG
-'iBIKDERj
I I
•
MARTIN & FAIN, 389 George St.
Blacket and Davy,
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
Sole Agents for Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
CANDTS COTTON BELTING,
ALLDAT’S BELLOWS,
TANGYE STEAM PUMPS.
IBBOTSON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON'S FILES,
A LARGE VAEIETY IN STOCK.
BHEEPWASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY,
Engines and Boilers of all sizes,
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
SILVER 4, WATCHES
FROM d^-4.10.
Cr URING JLWE^
9. Bc. lI.HUNTER STREET
■chss SYDNEY. G0 <
oßra
.SEND FOR
CATALOGUE.
GOLD WATCHES
. FR'OM c£. 3.10 •
rjIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
THEY ARE IN E FEE Y WAY COMPLETE.
TET ONE. '"‘T FOB
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, HAIR - CUTTING
SYDNEY. (\ W'* STAGE AND STREET WIGS
And Ornamental Hair Work,
o See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street
PRIZE “IVANHOE” WINES.
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
Ac., Ac.
YIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
‘ G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
FRUITY WINES
5/6
PER GALLON.
EDISON-BELL TELEPHONES.
THESE INSTRUMENTS, combining Edison’s most recent improvements, are now acknowledged to be the most
perfect means of transmitting speech; and for superiority of workmanship, elegance of design, and non-
liability to derangement, are unexcelled.
THE EDISON-BELL TELEPHONE
Has been adopted for the Melbourne. Adelaide, and Brisbane Telephone Exchanges, and by numberless commercial
houses throughout the Colonies.
Telephones without batteries, (with magnetic calls) to speak over any distance, for country use, guaranteed to
give satisfactory results.
SOLE AGENT,
6 Market Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
