

THE BULLETIN
Vol. B.—No. 97.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1881.
Price—3d.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1881.
Off the Track.
into the charges brought against him. The fashion
in which it seems now to be sought to draw the
public off Mr. Garrett’s trail on to a false scent
is scarcely compatible with the idea that neither
fear nor favour will be allowed to influence the
proceedings to be taken. There have been so
many and so various reports of corrupt practices
in connection with public affairs of late that it is
of the most vital importance that the Assembly
should leave nothing undone to demonstrate its
intolerance of fraud, and should adopt no course
which could be mistaken for corroboration of the
idea that among its members are any considerable
number who apprehend the disclosures which
might grow out of a radical enquiry into the
career of one of its busiest and most energetic
members. It is quite absurd to suppose that any
jury will be found to convict one detachment of
persons included in a common arraignment with
another, if that other —the most heavily charged
of all —be, for any reason, permitted to elude the
same ordeal. A failure of justice appears immi-
nent, and for that failure the Legislative Assem-
bly, which should be the guardian of the public
morality, will make itself responsible if it under-
I take to convert its precincts into a City of Refuge
—an Alsatia into which the officers of the law are
debarred from penetrating.
* # *
I Possibly the Government harbours intentions
not yet disclosed. It is scarcely creditable that
men like Mr. Daelet and Mr. S. C. BboWn
would have joined the Administration on any
I other understanding than that the weight of their
The Attorney-General has stated that the Govern-
ment have determined upon the immediate
prosecution of the trustees of the Milburn Creek
Copper Mining Company. That is satisfactory, so
far as it goes. These trustees have been charged
with misappropriating moneys, the property of
the shareholders, and it is only proper that the
ordinary tribunals should decide respecting their
innocence or guilt. But the public should not
permit themselves to be hoodwinked by this pro-
ceeding. The prosecution of these trustees will
not advance the country one jot nearer the de-
sideratum upon which a fortnight ago attention
appeared to be concentrated. To take criminal
proceedings against Mr. Waddell, Mr. Mathe-
son, and even against Mr. Baker, now that that
gentleman has been expelled from the Assembly,
will do nothing towards purifying Parliament.
The offence with which the defendants stand
charged is not of any extraordinary nature. The
accusation brought against them has no reference
to Parliamentary corruption at all. It is merely
misappropriation of the funds belonging to share-
holders that they will be called to answer for.
« * *
This is comparatively an insignificant matter.
The courts are engaged in trying persona for
BlrrnUr offences every day. It is not a suspicion
that certain trustees have defrauded certain share-
holders which has moved the public so deeply as
has been the caseof late. The sensationhas been due
to revelations tending to disclose acts of corrup-
tion on the part of representative men. It is well
that the wrongdoing of individuals in their private
capacity should be restrained and punished, but
it is of infinitely more moment that betrayal of
trust on the part of public men should be grappled
with uncompromisingly and unflinchingly. Now,
the charges against the Milburn Creek trustees
have been formulated in the report of the Eoyal
Commissioner appointed to investigate the dis-
posal of the sum granted as compensation to the
shareholders in the Copper Mining Company.
But, inseparably intermingled, were other charges,
infinitely more momentous, directly affecting two
ex-ministers of the colony—charges which have
not been disproved, and which the public con-
tinue to regard in the most serious light. If it
be proper that the minor allegations of dishonesty
on the part of trustees, in their dealings with the
shareholders who appointed them, should be pro-
- routed to the bitter end, how much more desir-
o,ule must it be that ascription of corruption and
\ betrayal of the sacred trust derived from the
public as a whole, on the part of representative
men, should be probed to the very bottom ?
• • •
There seems to be a disposition to regard the
Assembly as the highest Court of Justice, and to
accept the excited division of the other night as a
conclusive acquittal of Mr. Thomas Garrett,
If this be the intention of the Government, the
arguments of the Herald, intended to demon-
strate theoretically the unfitness of that popular
Assembly for the discharge of judicial functions,
will have been practically endorsed. The As-
sembly, as the best judge of the honour of its own
members, will have woefully failed. Eespect for
the House will be at an end if it determine that a
member may be purged and purified by a scramb-
ling vote, given impulsively, notwithstanding the
fact that the outside public remains unappeased
and as suspicious as ever. What sort of estima-
tion is that Chamber likely to enjoy in which
there can hold up his head, and claim to stand on
an equal footing with other members, a man who
outside the House is regarded as having
barely escaped expulsion by the audacity of
his disposition, and the ineffectual character of
the trial which he has undergone ?
* * *
There is a wide-spread idea that the reason why
fish is made of some of the parties indicated as
criminal by the Eoyal Commissioner, and fowl is
made of another, is simply that the lucky indi-
vidual knows too much for prosecution to be con-
veniently carried a I’outrance. It was hoped at
first, in view of the Premier’s unblenching re-
ception of Mr. Garrett’s covert threatenings
and hints, that no dread of any disclosures which
the arraigned member might be in a position to
make if pressed too determinedly would be per-
mitted to avert a full and searching investigation
reputations would be employed to strengthen the
hands of the Government, and enable it to carry
out to the very end the purification which, to all
appearances, was needed. Public confidence can
only be restored by one of two events. Dy a
complete laying bare of the sources and pro-
cesses of corruption, and subsequent purgation of
Parliament and of society ; or by clear, explicit,
and unmistakable demonstratipn that prevalent
suspicions and the Royal Commissioner s plainly
written charges have been founded on mistaken
acts and fallacious inferences.
Sir Arthur Hamilton Gordon, G.C.M.G.,
Governor of New Zealand.
Op late years the Colonial Office has awakened to
the importance to the mother country of the
interests of the younger British communities
scattered over the globe. It is not long since the
leading Liberal statesmen, having replaced _in
part the old Whig ideas with the utilitarian
maxims of the commercial or Manchester school,
conceived that colonies were to be valued only by
the results they showed in the national ledgers.
Great Britaifi was assumed to be a sordid and
unnatural parent, determined to cast off her off-
spring the moment it appeared that they were not
self-supporting. It is not even now quite certain
that this conception does not still prevail; but
recently economists have discovered that in the
colonies the British manufacturers have their best
and mbst loyal customers —and those oracles of
public opinion who, like Mr. Gladstone, had com-
menced to loose the bonds of relationship between
the mother, country and the colonies, to-day
endeavour to obliterate the recollection of their
former attitude by profuse declarations of un-
alterable conviction that the relations they once
slighted can never be too earnestly and sedu-
lously fostered. One benefit which the colonies
have derived from this change of policy has been
that these dependencies are not so generally
regarded as so many “ Coventry Islands,” fur-
nishing convenient retreats for the Colonel
Crawleys of Great Britain. With the growth of
a perception of the value of the colonies to the
mother country has developed a conviction that it
is no longer expedient that the vice-regal luno-
tiona in these dependencies should bo conferred as
convenient provision upon shiftless political dead-
beats and decayed lordlings. A new era has been
inaugurated, and the Colonial Office has cast
about for young men of energy, discretion, and
ability, just as of late years the War Department
has got rid of its long-standing affection for old
Generals, who were veterans only of Aldershott or
Hyde Park, and has chosen for the conduct of
operations in the field commanders who have
shown real capacity in the face of the enemy. Of
the new school of Colonial Governors, Sir Arthur
Gordon is one of the most prominent. He has
served a regular apprenticeship to the business of .
diplomatic management. Ho is a younger son of
the late Earl of Aberdeen, who was Prime
Minister of Great Britain at the commencement
of the Crimean War. Sir Arthur was born in
1829, and educated in Scotland He entered
public life in 1854, during the time that his father
was Premier, being returned for Beverley, where
he defeated Mr. G. H. Hastings. But, at the
general election of 1857, Mr, Gordon was defeated
at Liskeard by Mr. Ralph Grey, and from that
moment he abandoned a parliamentary career.
His experience as private secretary to his father,
while the Earl was Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs, and afterwards while at the head of
the Government, induced Mr. Gladstone to
appoint him to the Governorship of a Crown
colony. At Trinidad he learnt .the rudiments of
the duties appertaining to the career he had
entered upon, and as Governor of Mauritius,
enlarged his experience. It was while occupying
that Governorship—always a difficult position,
owing to the strongly national French sentiment
and sympathies still prevailing among the Creoles
descendants of the French colonists who peopled
the island at the time of its conquest by the
British —that Sir Arthur was selected for the still
more arduous duty of presiding over the political
moulding into shape of the newly-acquired depen-
dency, Fiji. The relations between the British
planters and the native races were then very
involved, and fraught with explosive material.
Sir Arthur fairly justified the confidence reposed
in him. He nipped in the bud an incipient system
of slavery, and, although he earned bitter ill-will
in many directions, he handed over the colony to
his successor in a condition of quietude and
prosperity which told its own tale. _As High
Commissioner of the Pacific Islands, Sir Arthur
has not been so successful in earning reputation.
He has been accused of undue weakness with
respect to the natives, and with an equally mis-
placed severity in his treatment of British sub-
jects in those parts. But the political history of
the South Seas has yet to be written ; and it is
possible, when all the materials shall bo collected
and collated, the broad result may justify many
things which, separately considered, appear to
tell against the sagacity of the High Commis-
sioner. As Governor of New Zealand, Sir Arthur
Gordon makes his first acquaintance with a de-
pendency in which constitutional institutions aro
in operation. There have been indications that
Sir Arthur is not altogether free from the tendency,
often remarked in men who have been accustomed
to the semi-autocratic powers, pertaining to the
Governors of Crown colonies, towards making
his own will and inclination more prominently felt
than is relished by colonial Ministers. But this
disposition will probably be qualified as observa-
tion and experience show its disadvantages, and
in such case a distinguished career probably lies
before Sir Arthur Gordon.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Stipendiary Magistrates.
The Metropolitan Magistrates’ Bill, which was read a
second time in the Assembly,' on Tuesday, could not
have been better endorsed than by the objectors to it.
When the public perceives a measure of this kind-
devised to simplify justice in the petty courts, and to
raise the standard of the justice procurable at these
tribunals resisted and denounced in Parlia.
ment by tAe Dogberrys of the country, scarcely any
further recommendation can be needed. It is not yet
forgotten that two of the parties most prominent in
objecting to this measure, which will make packed
benches and complaisant withdrawals of cases difficult
in future, were actively concerned in depriving of his
situation an unlucky official who dared to attempt to
render them amenable to the same law as controlled other
citizens. But, besides this, there wore other recom-
mendations suggested by those who, meaning to curse t
remained really to bless tho Bill. Several members
argued that, as the licensing jurisdiction had been
withdrawn from the ordinary magistrates and placed in
the hands of the stipendiaries, all danger of the repe-
tition of such scandalous perversion of justice as had be-
come notorious, had been removed. As a matter of fact,
however, the explanation offered as to the delays
which occur in the disposal of business under
the present system, knocks the above argument
into splinters. Out of some 201 metropolitan
magistrates, not more, one apologist reckoned, than 20
or 30 attended to their business at all. It is obvious,
therefore, that the very sarte men who have given such
glaring evidence of partiality and bias with respect to
licensing matters sit also on other cases. They
be expected to change their tendencies as they change
the bench they sit upon. The professional J.P. is not
unknown in Sydney, and is too often identical with tho
Town Hall swindler and the electioneering tout who at
SIR ARTHUR HAMILTON GORDON, G.C.M.G., GOVERNOR OF NEW ZEALAND.


HOP BITT t K 8 t
AEE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They aye Compounded from
Hops, Eucliu, Mam* rate and Dandelion*.
The Oldest, Bo t, most Renowcod,, and
Vah able Medicines in the World*,- a»«l
in addit'ou, contain all the bes*tanil
most effective curative properties of :iU!
other B.tters. being the g'eatest Iji A r ■
Regulator, Blood Purifier, end lliffc-
and Health Restoring Agent on eart'li.
Ask yonr Druggist or Pkysiciaiii.
Do not suffer yourself, or Tot your'
friends suff- r, but use, and urge them tc<
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the.
Purest and Best Medicine ever mode,
and no person or family should he with-
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on abed of sickness, taka
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure Yob.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without cleanly
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will Revive You,
If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties ;
or a Mother, worn out with care and)
work.
Hop Bitters Will Restore Ycta,
If you are a man of business, cr -
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,,
toiling ever your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You,
If you are suffering from over eating
or drinking, any indiscretion or dissipa-
tion, or are young and growing too fast,
as is often the case,
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and fe*l
that your system need-i Cleansing, Ton-
mg, or Stimulating, without intoxica-
ting, «
Hop Bitters is What You Neel.
If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un-
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavoui ing for sic.k-rcom
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENEICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and yos will have no sickness or suffering.
MONTBFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
• General Agents for Australia.
YAN HAAGEN’S toilet soaps.
manufactured by
BENJAMIN BROOKE & CO., PHILADELPHIA,
U.S.A.
BEST, FINF.ST, AND CHEAPEST
FRENCH MILLED TOILET SOAPS.
These soaps are made of the purest and best material
and are unrivalled for
DELICACY OP PERFUMB.
AND SUPERIOR LASTING QUALITIES.
Fine Homy
Tuik'sh B th
American Toilet
Pure Palm
La ral Bouquet
Lilac Bouquet.
Bouquet, etc. etc. etc..
BATH, and NURSERY USE'S.
FOR SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.
JgENJAMIN BROOKES*
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and denning all Kitchen Utensils,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brags, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire-
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great,saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MOXTEF.ORE, STUART, &.CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,;
OP. GREGORY & CO.’S
• SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOBACCOS,
bearinv our Brands,
•■ORIENT” and ‘‘SOUTHERN CROSS.’*
are unequalled by any Tobaccos ever imported into
those Colonies.
Fine Rose
White Fond Lily
Prairie Bouquet
Oat Meal
Palma Ro a
Honeysuckle
Naples
FOR TOILET,
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
The American Novelty Company are exhibiting
their Christmas goods.
There’s no reason why the art of swimming
should not bo a general accomplishment. Profe sor
Cavill, of the lavender Bay baths, undertakes to teach
anyone to swim in six lessons. No more deaths by
drowning!
The pick building sites of North Shore, to which
our railway policy now directs great public attention,
are in the market, and, judging by the eagerness mani-
fested for investments in that direction during the last
five or six yet re the purchases are likely to ran into
high figures. During the present year, over £OOO,OOO has
been invested in North Shore prop<rDy, and the coming
year will probably see a quadruple investment. The
land for sale is the estate of the late Mr. W. Willoughb*-.
The day of sale is Saturday, 3rd December, and the
auctioneers are Butt, Eodd, and Pnrves It will be
interesting!© note fie resultof this sale; which will pro-
bably afford some idea of the character of future in-
vestments.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts U.S A ,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham.
Mas*., is now registered in the Australian eoianiev of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Pro-
ceedings will bo taken against any persons copying or
imitating same, or any vendors selling or offering for
sale watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any
way infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH
COMPANY, Waltham, Mass.—Anv.
municipal and other elections brings up dead men by
the score to vote. A man cannot bo corrupt as a licens-
ing magistrate and honest whoa adj n Heating on matters
which, although of less public interest than granting or
refusing permis don to sell grog, often involve tho life-
long happiness of men aud women. It is quite generally
understood that in tho metropolitan courts tho man
who can run in most justices can get most of what is
ironically termed justice. If clerks of the peace, who
are dependent for their official existence on the political
crawlers who infest what should he halls of justice, but
which in reality closely resemble dens ot thieves, could
be put on oath, or induced to relate their experience in
regard to the packing of benches during the hearing of
debt or other cases, a tale jof iniquity would be heard,
in comparison with which oven the Milbnrn Creek dis-
closures would seem a little piece of pleasantry.
Sir John Robertson’s Position.
There arc two or three points in connection with the
Alilburn Creek proceedings which seem to justify, to
some extent, the action which Sir John Robertson
took, when he resigned. No member of tho House of
C irnmons, suspected of misconduct warranting his*
c-xpulsion, is ever dealt with by tho Government; tho
proceedirgs are always by means of a committee of
tho House, and no member of the Government is ever
allowed on such a committee —tho presumption, of
course, being that the weight of Government influence
might jeopardise a fair trial. Sir John Robertson
objected to the Government becoming the accusers of
Alessra. Garrett nnd Baker. He virtually said, “I don’t
say they are innocent; but I hope they may be able to
clear themselves. I shall not bo one of their accusers.
That is for tho grand jury of tho country—our Attor-
ney General —to deal with.” Sir Henry Parkes may
safely be considered to Lave said in reply, “ The Go-
vernment are not going to accuse them.” That night,
to tho surprise of Sir John Robertson, the Premier
was accuser. Crown prosecutor, judge, and juryman.
Next morning, Sir John Robertson resigned. He urged
that the Attorney General had a timple duty to per-
form —to put the men on their trial. Tbe At-
torney-General, it is true, has since placed Mr. Baker
on his trial. In doing so, he has acted in his
capacity as tho Grand Jury. But tho way Sir John
Robertson is said to regard this is, that Mr. Wisdom is
placing a man on his trial after having, in the most
distinct manner, declared him gnilry, by voting for Mr.
Baker’s expulsion from iho chamber. It is, however,
requisite to distinguish. The Attorney-Ga mra’, as
Grand Juror, must be satisfied that n man seems guilty
before ho initiates proceedings. Betides, the offence
for which Mr Baker was expelled the Assembly, was
not the c (fence for whi h he is no 7 about to be prose-
cuted lu tho former case, be was charged with con-
duct unworthy a member of the Assembly, ar.d unless
the Government had taken the steps they did to give
tbe House an opportunity of purging itself, it is diffi-
cult to see how an initiative could have been taken
Besides, the Premier most exp'i illy disci viraed any
desire to make tho decision a Governmei t question.
Having initiated tbo proceedings as leader of ' he House
ho desired lion, members to vote independendy It
has been urged that Sir John Robertson has acted ftom
motives of friendship Sir Jobu replies he never said
he believed ATr. Baker or Mr, G irrett guilty or inno-
cent. Ho actually demanded action of tho Attorney-
General. Sneaking to Sir Henry Sir John Robertson
may be cousid. rad to have said, “ Mv duty impels me to
see that the Attornep Gmerxl tiles a bill against them,
and that the beet legal talent procurable is secured.
Sir John Robertson poiqts, iu support further of
tho justice of his actions, to the manner iu which Sir
James Martin was expelled from the House by a trucu-
lent Government majority. And Sir John moreov' r
quotes in respect of Sir Henry Parkes —numerous in-
stances when that gentleman wis iu a minority, and
all sorts of damaging and disgraceful charges (none of
which Sir John beli-wedl were urged against him. A
movement such as the proceedings against Mr. Baker,
might have turned Sir Henry out of Parliament.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Tho New Zsalancl Government side of tho Maori
question has beau carefully sent homo to the Agent-
General, for publication in England.
We see that Mr A. B. Rae, of Bathurst, has re
tired from the Carcoar election. Here’s a chance for
Balvooa. A. B.’s place is third on the poll.
In ISBO, the Colonial Sugar Refining Company
of N.S.W. refined 13,303 tons ot iu?ar, and paid £3500
duty. At one time, a certain New South Wales states-
man, known to Sir Henry Parkas, carried a resolution
that sugar was a necessary of life, and should not be
taxed.
Tho ’Friso Newsletter says that the death of
the late President has cemented England and Amenta
in a way that a thousand Irish agitators can never undo;
nnd if, in the future, troubles should arise necessitating
foreign intervention, it is well to remember that
America aud England can dictate to the whole world
Wo don’t pay members of Parliament for their
services. All wc’do is to pay annually some thou-'ands
hy way of compensation for land resumed. £716,414 is
to go for the Darling Harbour railway racket. We sea
the Brisbane Courier announces tho comp tnsation at
■t>7.116,000. The Courier is only in advance of the
time.
The Land League is seeking authority from the
prirai'iva tenets of the radical Founder of Christianity.
Tbo Rev. Henry Rylott says, “ We are engaged iu a
war against an idle class, which ran away with the
chief pvrt of tho produce of the soil. The Scripture
says, *■ He that will not work, neither shall he C’t,’ and
T, as a Christian minister, am for starving the land-
lords.” i
Tho Brisbane Courier remarks that “ Mr
AVatsou’s figuivs are redly quite romantic, and read
ike a talc of Haroau al Rascbid. For tho two years
preceding the present year, he was only holding his
own ” Surely the Courier cannot mom that James is
holding anybody else’s now. That Blilhavu Creek affair
is poisoning in the other colonies tho reputations even of
our most honest politicians.
The author of the suggestion that a Holy
Brotherhood should he formed to hoist the Nihilists
with their own petard was Count Iguatieff, whe, wheu
asked one day in council by the Grand Duke
Vladimir what course he would propose pursuing in the
event of a fresh series of assassinations, replied
promptly aud boldly, “ I would recommend that the
whole ot tho suspected Nihilist loaders at home aad
abroad be assassinated at a stroke.”
It is stated that surveyors on the Murrum-
burrah and Bliyney railway have been stopped in their
work, and ordered to shift from the straight ccurie,
which they were ignorantly marking, to a circuitous
r into, which will meander in an agreeably serpentine
fashion through property belonging to one of the
members for the district. It is sugge-tel that, as a
matter of eoonomy.it might he as well to pay tbo
a ronnt of compensation at onoe, and then make the
railway through the direct route.
The Newspaper Libel Bill just passed by the
British Parliament contains four important provisions.
In the first place, fho published reports of any meeting
are to ho regarded as privileged, “if such meeting was
lawfully convened for a lawful purpose aud open to tho
public, and if such report was fair and accurate, without
malice and for the public bin)fit No prosecution for
libel shall be commenced against nuy proprietor, pub-
lisher, editor, or any person responsible for the
public it ion of a ncwppp t for any libel published
Therein, except ou the liac or allowance of the Director
ot Public Prosecutions. A C mrt of summary juris-
diction mav hold an inquiry into the alleged truth of a
libel, or as to its being published for the public benefit ;
and if, after bearing such evidence, the presidingn; igis-
tvute is of opinion that there is strong or probable
presumption that the jury on the trial would acquit the
person charged, he may dismiss the case. Lastly. i’
the court of summary jurisdiction is of opinion that
the libel is of a trivial character, it may, with the con-
cent of the defendant, dispose of the matter by iedict-
,ng a fine not exceeding fifty pounds.”
THE NEWSLETTER.
Hotel and houses at Cobar burnt.
Intensive bootmakers’ strike at Ballarat.
Airs. Jones of Glenrowan is awarded <£3os
compensation.
In Western Australia now the police are in sum-
mer, uniformed in white. Why not in Sydney ?•
It is understood that there is a movement for
the establishment of auotherdaily newspaper in Sydney.
Another Victorian Slate School teacher, Kenyon,
to be crimina l ly prosecuted for indecency before his
scholars.
Melbourne warehousemen are asking for the
removal of tho protective duties, and of tho existing
fiscal impediments to intercolonial trade.
The London wool market still going np. Fleece
wools are lid, f-coured Id, aud greasy crossbreds id to
Id higher than at the close of last series.
According to a statement made in Parliament it
appears that one merchant owns 300 licensed houses in
Sydney, another 250, and a third 180, ‘A change is
browing.
The La Hogue, out from London since August
8. has arrived. Too heavily laden to sail well. The
Michael Hutchinson, 123 days out, arrived at Newcastle
on tho 27th ultimo.
Constable Murphy, stationed at Yass, killed a
man named Seaile with a loaded whip on the 2 Hh.
It is unknown at present whether the act was justifiable
or not. Considerable local excitement.
Mr. E. E. Jones, the well-known bookmaker,
wbo made “ a few ” over the Melbourne Cup, has given
£IOD to the Sydney charities, and £lOO for a gold cud to
be run for at the next Newcastle meeting.
The big hotel being built at Katoomba for Mr.
Rowell, now of tho Oxford, Sydney, will contain 58
rooms. The public dining and drawing rooms are each
40 x 21, and the smallest room in the house is 14 x 12.
A pretty straw-coloured diamond, valued by
Mr. Nicholas, F.R.G.S., at £3O, was found last week at
Mount M Donald. At various times diamonds and
sarphires have been found in the Abercrombie River in
tbe crevices of the rods.
An old resident at Braidwood, named James
Armstrong, committed suicide recently in a very
strange way. He hollowed out a piece of wood, filled it
with powder and small pebbles, put it towards his heart,
and fired it with a match. Death was instantaneous.
Yates, the bandsman of H.M.S. Wolverene,
about whose arrest there was recently some trouble in
Melbourne, was tried by court-martial on the Wolverene
on the 28th. The charges against him were desertion
and perjury. He was sentenced to two years’ gaol, aad
then to be dismissed the service.
There is a severe contest in Fitzroy ward. The
candidates are Mr, Beero, Mr, MacMahon, and Mr. G.
B. Maclean. The rugged, honest policy ; pursued* by
Mr.lMacMahon in bis oublic and private life during the
last twenty years has brought tobii side in this contest
an amalgamated support that should give him victory
A woman, named Evelina Halliday, was sen-
tenced to two months’ imprisonment, at Albury, last
week, for stealing a marriage certificate. Shi had not
only stolon the certificate, but had scratched out the
names and inserted her own and that of a man named
Matthews, with a view to show that she was a married
woman.
Australians travelling through San Francisco,
cn route to New York, have to thank Mr. T. D M Kay,
tho celebrated railroad agent, for a good deal of the
facility with which they are passed along. Mr. M Kay
intends this to got hold of all Australians. Some day
we’ll give his portrait, to enable people to distinguish
him from President Arthur.
It is satisfactory to know that Mr. Fitzgerald’s
anticipations as to producing sugar on the Johnstone
River (N Q.) this season are being realised. In a short
timo the impenetrable scrubs have been converted into
a magnificent plantation, and in a few yf ars the sugar
export from tho river will be very large. The sugar land
on the Burdekin has risen from ss. to nearly £5 per
acre.
The “ last dying speech and confession ” of a
criminal is not, as a rule, worth much. When Lefroy.
who was executed on tho 28sh Nov. for tho murder of
Mr. Gold, found that he was face to face with the hang
man, ho said that it was he who murdere l Lieutenant
Roper at Chatham, some months ago. This confession
h? subsequently retracted, but in regard to the offence
for which he was executed ho admitted his guilt.
A Ballarat resident received a telegram from
Sydney, the other day, telling him his son was deid.
The father travelled over with all speed to witness his
sou’s interment. Arriving here, he found him alive.
Thi boy, who is engaged in the printing business, is
suffering from some complaint of the nature of paralysis,
aad when reported dead, had merely gone into a trance
which continued 12 or 13 hours. The father took him
home, and he is now under medical treatment.
The Mayor and Aldermen, and a number of
city gentlemen lunched on Monday, at Chatsworth,
Pot's'Point, tho residence of Mr. C. J Roberts. Tho
occasion was the presentation to the Mayor, as repre-
senting the citizen®, of the painting of Viscount S'-d-
-nov, the rift of Mr. John Henniker Heaton. Mr.
Roberts did the honours of tho occasion in proper
style. Surprise, however, was expressed that tho pre-
s ntition to " the city” should have been made in such
a roundabout way. Any other man but Henniker would
have sent it direct to the Mayor.
Tho paragraph in our last, stating that moneys
had bom improperly converted to their own me by
officials in the Oriental Bank at Melbourne, and sub-
Sfqu-ntly mad ) good by the offenders and their friends,
appeared in that form owing to a clerical error. The
Oriental Bank has been clear of all tho bunking
scandals circu’nting in Melbourne, and no allegations
against its oflners and mmo gem ent have at any time
been made. The officials wore very naturally much
hurt at being referred to in such a connection, but can
soircelyhive been more grieved than wo were when
tbs mistake was discovered.
Mr. E. W. Lamb, formerly Minister for Lands
in the Queensland Government, arrived at Maryborough
on the 28th November, with proof that Skuthorpe has
the relics of I eichhardt. Air. tyimiecke, a South Aus-
tralian surveyor, somewhat confirms the statement.
Air Lamb says the relics will b# forthcoming in three
weeks. It is as well here to state that Mr. Lamb has al-
ways had great confidence iu the entopri-ing Skuthorpc
It is ho use, however, of any person coming to this
office with a battered telescope aud the lid of a tin billy
Nothing loss than a rack comb and acl»y pipe, with the
Leichhardt monogram engraved thereon, will convince
us.
Mr. Richmond, manager of the Port Jackson
S S. Co., has gone to England for the purpose of having
built to the order of the company a splendid steamer.
She is to be 210 feet in length, 23 fret beam, apd 11 feet
G inches in depth, with engines of 900 horse power, and
capable of going 16 knots an hour, eo that she will be
enabled to do the trip to Manly in 23 minutes—thus more
than meeting tho anticipations of tho company to make
a run to and fro every hour. She will be handsomely
fifed, will carry 1500 passengers, and will be provided
with instantaneous reversing gear so as to check her
cneiues when at full speed. Steam steering gear and
electric lights will also be among tho innovations. The
cimpany is ordering by tho same opportunity a screw
pissenger aud tug 120 feet long, ti run 13J knot-, per
hour. There's go in this company; for years Sydney
was behind thi times. No w it’t the other way about.
The Hon. Thomas Ho'.t was a benefactor to his
country—when be went away to Europe, and parted with
his W arren estate. The Warren is a rabbit of land, and
everybody should burrow money to buy a slice of it
from Hardie and Gorman on Saturday. Free lunch;
and anybody quarrelling with tho roast chicken will he
at liberty to go and hivo it out with tho nearest rooster
—as representative of tho deceased.
Mr. Frank Smith, of the Sir Joseph Banks,
Botany, has intimated his intentien of giving three
prizes, value £l5, to he competed for iu a ten-mi ! e
skatiug race, provide ! a reasonable number of competi-
tors come forward. The race is to he a handicap, and
to come off very shortly after the necessary entries are
made.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed ]
“ W.D.” : Glad to have from yon many items
of the kind .....‘.'X Q ” : A clever application of a good
story <‘*Vectis” (Gonlburn): Kindly let your com-
munications reach us by (say) Tuesday morning at
latest * J C. 8.” : Wo don’t cxictly understand
your reference “ J.C.l.*’: Wbat are the stamps fir P
“CW." (Grafton): Received “Mr. Harry
Lynch” : A letter for you at Tcvliu’s Commercial Hotel,
Stanthorpo “Zulu”: Please do not send us matter
which you write one moment aad are sorry for writing
thenext “J.C U.”: Very welcome “E Q.”: Tour
poem, ‘ Anticipation,” is received. This is how it looks
in print— t as much of it as we can find room for :
“ Ah! were it not for this love of min?,
So far away,
I should mourn at leaving my native land,
To wander alone on a foreign strand,
So far away.
Since I love my love so faithfully.
So far away,
She surely must bo good and pure.
Or would this love of mine endure
So far away ?"
If really you earnestly desire an answer to this question,
wo unhesitatingly reply that it is our sincere conviction
that a love need not necessarily be “rood and pure” to
be enduring. We knew a pig that cherished an affection
for a particular slush-hole. Its love was probably not
batter or purer than the object on which it was lavished,
but it was enduring; and, though all the boys in the
district pelted the animat with rocks and shin-bones, it
daily sought the eiimv shers with the persistence of a
young man seeking a Government billot, or a Christian
brother the solace of the meeting-house. The Solomon
Islander’s love for his fe!low-man (roasted) and an even-
ing paper reporter’s regard for “ tanglefoot ” are also
enduring, but not good or pure. There is too much
“ far away ’’ about your verses. Try something nearer
home, and of more local interest “C.D.P.”: Your
poem, “ The Squatter’s Soliloquy,” is to hand.
“ Of sheep I own many a thousand.
And I must have grass for them to browse on,”
is a couplet calculated to make the skeleton of Byron
rise out of his grave, and rush around town with nothing
on but a brass coffin-plate. Your stanzas have some
merits, but uniformity of metre is not one of them ; and
a squatter who doesn’t know better than to rhyme browse
on with thousand ought to soliloquise iu prose, or get our
poet to soliloquise for him. Address, Bulletin office
“A Subscriber": Will attend to it “T.M.H.”:
What you send is only rhyme, not good either. How-
ever, persevere “L.0.L.”: We don’t understand
either your joke about fho “William Goat,” or what
you mean when you say “bis sxa exploded.” “ J.S."
(Penrith): Some items you send are rather too private,
petty, and personal, for us to publish ; others right
“Viola’’; Thank y0u.,...." J.S.” (Oundagai): Wants
a little fixing; will try and do something “ D.A.M.”:
You should have enclosed the printed extracts; we
have not kept the papers of the dates referred to
“ W.K.”: We can’t afford to publish £lO,OOO jokes. It’s
quite open, under the present libel law < f N.S.W , for
aa\ penniless scoundrel to come from Coiktown, and,
without giving security for costs, to enter an action for
a million, or whatever other moderate sum ha might
value his character at "Scissors to Grind”: We are
not quite clear as to your moaning “ W.P.A.”:
Good, but too much spun out. Besidog, why do you
give us so much about the umbrella, and so little about
the girl? The latter is the more interesting subject.
You can pick up an umbrella any day at the Public
Library, but many men have lived to a green old ape
and never got a girl at all. Wade in, and tell us hew
you got on last Sunday at Chowder “A.R.”;
Thanks Received another letter about the matter
“ Miepherd” : We really can’t say whether it’s good or
bad to cut a bull-dog’s ears. It all depends whether
you regard the matter as an owner or as a dog
“Hebe”: Pleasa don't tell us how “the rev. gentle-
man performed the ceremony with great eatisfaction,”
but kindlv let us know what the young fellow g&t with
the girl, in hard cash “Veto”: Thanks; declined
before....” Peto” : A common delusion—you can’t write.
“Alice”: Thanks; send along at any time; we’ll cor-
rect the spelling “ Maitlauder” : The train to Ax-mi-
dale will run in about eight or ten months; first-rate
openings for business “ Cornstalk” : Trickettdoesn t
own a foot of ground in Woolloomooloo or elsewhere
in this city; nor has ho a terrace of houses goingnp;
your friend is in error; he is most probably a liar
“T.C.” : Thanks; hut of no use to us “Lucy”:
Send us your roal name “Tout” wants to know if,
in a horserace, a jockey can, in a fair field of horses, at
all times and always, deceive the handicapper in refer-
ence to the running powers of the horse ho is riding.
We don’t know about “always,” but it’s often done
“Rambler”: Received “Omikron”: The letter in
question flid not reach us “ C D.W.”: Will enquire.
ll HER,” (Woollahra): Yes; he is allowed to join
a senior club for practice onlr. Playing in ary eleven
of the senior clubs di qualifies him for the Thomson
Cup matches “ W 8. - ’: Yovxr itory about " Unto ns
a child is born, six feet long and two feet broad,” is as
old as the hills, If you can’t send ns anything original,
let us have a circus-whecze “ Grafton If you want
to go in on the sensational ticket, give us something
thrilling. We don’t pay three or four professional
horrormougers to dish us no atrocities of the most
i appalling kind, and then publish stuff like your turnip
: and cucumber tragedy. Let us have somethirg at
l ast as funny and horrible as the story«of the China-
man who choked himself in trying to swallow tho cat’s
eye and sugar as a curator blindness "Bully”: Good
story “ Amateur” (Kiatna): Next week, if not tbi®.
We’re glad to get your contributions “ Snuffle
Gr.intor” : Your poetry is not fit to print in its present
shape. There’s too much slang, and too little every-
thing else. We don’t know “wither” you are going,
hut you’ll wither when yon vet there, if you don’t spell
, better, dear friend “ W.WE.” (C’town): We note
marriages, engagements, &c ; , of public interest, but the
parties must be of some social standing. Send notes of
ball, please “ Hobart” (Goulburn): We have seen
ideas on “ Connubial Bliss” somewhat similar to your?,
every day for 91 years, only much better put. Buy a
spelling boot, old son, instead of wasting your youth-
fill prime over “voluptious” figures, and expecting
them to grant a “ spontanions comolyance with your
wishes.” “ Cunnamulla ”: Thanks 11 Vulcan ” :
Much obliged “Venus”: Held over “Nemo”:
The world is not interested in what “ that couple” were
doing near the boat. Your item is not our style
“Veritas”: Much obliged. Late for this issue
“ J 3 ”: We shall ha happy to make the correction
“ Caprioornus’’: Late “Sydney”: Received
“W.R.S.”: You are this week among the late con-
tingent, hut will have a show next issue “ Owed to
the Government ”: In type; next' week “Hobart”;
Good, but hardly suitable. Write again “C. H.
Taylor Have received the £2 forwarded for the
Marcus Clarke Fund. Will notice your letter next
week.


w.
HOWARD SMI
LINE OP STEAM
Leave STBUTH’S WHARF, f(
For MELBOURNE,
Every TUBS
or BRISBANE.
MARYBOROUGH,
and ROCK
On TUBS
FARES and FREIGHTS at Gt
BATES.
W. HOWARD SMI
gTEAM TO
LONDON—i
1881.
The following Royal Mail Stear
the ORIENT STEAM NAVIGJ
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COMPA iY, will leave BY
mentioned dates, for Melbourne,
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, call
And the service will be maint)
steamers at intervals of a fortnight
S iloon passengers homewards mi
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goi
etcuner within a mouth ; but failin
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guinea
8s in addition.
Passages from London can be gra
For plans and full particulars,
and CO., and ANDERSON, ANI
Joint Managers of the line ; or to 1
General Manager in A •:
RIENT LINE OF
PARCEL EXPRI
Special Arrangements have boci
veyance of Parcels and small packai
Steamers to London at reduced rat
2s. 6cl. per foot, or fraction of a f
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon of the day prior
sailing. All freights payable in S
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILI
Manager of Orient
267 Goorge-street, Sydney.
rjIHE PAINLESS COR
A Sure Relief, and in multitudes
Cure for Corns
Prepared only by John Clowes, Cl
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Elli
ney and Brisbane; and sold by
vendors.
i
ORE
A L
CEN
c° Y
00
N PL
mx. -: o j -
ALL COa
*~» v.
&
ft
si >»; u~i
K'i V O
LP
mi
-jggTaecrctj
SSEB*
asa
r-Mv
My
M
mill
&
a^sSsSßPr^rrf-
SS^\
fi&S
*ssv
Bl > ill nr '-J
/^C—b:;*; ■lkte .;Cfej;i
Vi-1/Vi,. \ iMtu; ku U»i»iilr/~1. m*>j~ r
tVAV.
HiiK-hi
AWffi
m
JWjwMf*
M*x
m
mm
H
ru'iii
m
ffi 3K -
•-
ALARMING SALE OE BOOT
NOW ON! NOW ON
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BO
510 GEORGE STREE
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT C
with those you have been payii
MAKE NO MI S 2
This is the only Genuine Sale, a 1
FOB ONE MONTH C
In tire Assigned Estate of G. A
JEWELLERY TO THE AMOU
JN order to dispose of the above Stock, we have made up the u
found very cheap, and consist cf the follow
[efgistekkd.]
TO PER SO NTS IN DJFFK
the Mutual Trade Protcctio i
cover your debts or cbtaiu the best:
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitl
WANTED, SUBSCRIBER
key Bulletin. W. Bov
News Agent, lind stationer. Querns.:
J
H N S j
WHOLESALE, LET
and
MANUFACTURING ST
371 GEORGE STREET, I
The desiges selected by Mr. Sand
iers Card Competition, inaugurated 1
a e now ready, and may be obtained
and Sta 1 loners in Australia.
These c irds are essential y Ans'r!
being des gned by Austra ian Artist;
by Mr. Sands's own bthcgruphe s,
works as above. Porous wi bin- to
tbis new Odonial industry, are reqnes
each card he irs on ir. Mr. Sands's tra
Q 1 'ss. Thiscant on isnece-sarr, as v
being oil. red to the public, which, al
in character, are t f Enrop an prodne
In addition to the cards of h>«
Sands has in ported the most varied (
in the colonies. Those desirous of p
Feted with artistic tast", cannot do I
his s ock, which includes the various
the hone compctiti us togciber wit!
tions from the principal English,
American Manufacturers.
Mr. Bands has also on view the pit
premiums of One Hundred and Fifty
h'hitioa, lat, ly held at the Ait Ga
Wales
CH ROMO-LITHOGRAPHIC
November, 1681.
MASON BROTJ
14 & ig Si
Syd
Have always in S
to the TRAD
BALE BU-YBB
IRONMONGER
GENERA
GLASS,
A
EAETHI
WINES. BEER!
and g
BULK MEI
A gen
JOHN WALK
Old Highla
J. SORIN
Cog
J. T. G
Schnapps i
A. MELVU
Edinburgl
KEttX
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GEN
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED
Turret Clocks—simple, strike.
Spectacles, etc., of ail
Plain figures—Low pri<
H. PAL
BOOTS.
ASK FOR
WOOD AND CO.’S
CELEBRATED GOULBUKN
BOOTS,
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
•sxooa
BOOTS.
BOOTS.
MJ. LAMBERT & CO.,
• Ale and Poitcr and Australian
Wine March ante,
23 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY,
have on hand Prize Wines from the Celebrated Vine-
Yards of Messrs. A. MUNRO (Singleton), J. T.
FALLON, GREER and Co., and Dr. LINDEMAN
(Alburj), and all Ihedeading growers of the colony,
which wo sell at their prices.
We have also a large slock of superior Ale and Stout
brewed specially for us, which is second to none in
Sydney.
Schweppe’s Mineral Waters supplied.
N.B. —Orders delivered in town or suburbs daily.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRY
WORMALD,
112 OXFORD STREET.
T> URKE, COULSOM, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS. WOOLBROKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GEN BEAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
113 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE.
GHSEIDAN & FULLFOED,
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS,
91 PITT-STKEET,
SYDNEY.
Usury A. Sheridan, formerly Manager! of the) Com-
mercial Bank, Maitland.
James Fullford, of West Maitland.


SINGER'S SEWING !
ABE MADE ONLI
Tke Singer Elanufactur
Head Offices i
81 UNION SQUARE, NEW
Chief Office in Eui
39 POSTED LANE,
Depot, for New South
No. 1 DAE LING STOKES, HA
BTUNET.
S
I
N
G
E
Br
SINGER’S SEWING 1
HAVE
All the Latest Improi
SINGER’S SEWING Ik
FOB.
Largest Variety of 1
SINGER’S SEWING 1
JOB
Strength and Beauty o
SINGER’S SEWING S
FOB
Embroidery, Braiding, ax
SINGER’S SEWING 1
FOB
Plaiting, Binding, and
SINGER’S SEWING B
FOB
Kilting, Cording, and
160 FIRST PRI
EASY TEEMS—2s. 6d.
• AGENTS IN EVEET
LOCAL DEPOT
BOLTON STREET, NEW
WILLIAM STREET, BA
AUBURN STREET N., G
PEEL STREET, TAMWG
Victoria* street, gr.
No, 1 DARLING STORES
HARBOUR ST]
S
INGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED* i
OR
CELEBRATED SINGER MANX]
TIME PAYMENT
2a. 6d. per week —2a. 6d. per week
And NO INTEREST cl
10 per cent, oif for«
BEWARE OP I MIT
Aohnto for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
TURNER &
Opposite
SEWING MAORIS
HATMARKJT
Public Compftz
JIHE AUSTRALIAN
Paid-up Capital, £50(1,000, with pc
£1,000,000. Reserve Fun<
Directors:
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman} V
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.} J<
Esq-} Moses Moss, Esq.} Walt
General Manaoi
Yincent Wanostrocht
HEAD OFFICE: OEOBGE ST
City and Suburban Branches: H
Glebe, Burwood
London Office : 18 King Wlilii
BRANCHES IN NEW SOL
Albury, Armidale, Ballina, B
Bourke, Bundan-a, CassUis, Cone
bran, Coonamble, Copeland North,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulb
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End,
Kempsey, Lambton, Maeleay,
Morpeth, Mudgce, Narandera, 1
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rockle
ton. South Grafton, Temora, T<
Grana, Wagga Wagga, Wallaend,
Muit-.land, Wilcannist, Woodbum, ,
BRANCHES IN QUEE
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charter
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mac
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stan)
Tewnsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Color
the World general
The mercantile ban
ESTABLISHED 1
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF 1
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund....
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.G.N
Henry MotUEaq.
George Eaq.
Hoa. WnL Bjusby, M.L.C.
Hon. Phil®; Gidloy King, M.L
AUDITORS
Its. Scroggie, Esq.
H, E, Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER;
P. A. A. Wilso
SECRETARY»
Hector Allen,
BRANCHES:
687 Qoorgo-atxoet Brickfield H.
LONDON BANKI
The National Provincial Ban!
London Office, 30, Great 1
Director—Edward Chap
Agent—Q. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Bs
Agency Business on the xnostfavom
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances mi
other nroduco shipped to England 1
s
COTTISH
IMPEEIA
COMPANY.
CAPITAL ,a ...
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEI
NIXON & CC
Clnef Agents for N.
7 BRIDGE STREET CB
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
Lion fire insurant
Limited.
Chief Offices—s LOTHBUBY.
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital, £200,000. Rese
Annual Income
FI&E INSURANCE on every dei
in town and country, at LOWE!
promptly adjusted and paid in Syd
■vr Di
Easiness Announce
—=7—
LLegal.J
SHORTER, FITZGERALD,
SOLICITOR!
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE’
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Hotary I
EiSBE-sr. T. M. S
SOLICITOE, has oor
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STEEET, opposite i
News Office.
Legal.— n. w. cooke, so
8 Ground Floor, Wentworth i
ADDEES3 i 19 Sir John Youngs
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
jq’OtlCE OP R]
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUPAC
and
IMPORTERS of EVERT DESCE
and EAETHENWI
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVE
to
269 GEORGE STE
Next but One to the Merci
A magnificent selection of New 6
Government Advert
Department of 1
Sydney, Never
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that
execute and take deliver]
tionod Mineral Leases within th
date, they will be declared void,
’ J ART]
No. 1151; Peter Cook and others
County of Raleigh, parish of Warrel
No. Bulladellah 22m.
No. 1155; W. N. Keyes; Portion
( County of Clive; 20a.; Applicatiox
Department of 1
Sydney, 18th '
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FC
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given
Lessees execute and take di
mentioned Gold-mining Leases wit]
I this date, they will be declared voi<
ART]
Peel and Uralla Minin*
No. 236; E. Allbeuey and other
County of Parry, parish of Nuudl
No. Nundle 47.
No. 240; W. Henry and others
County of Parry, parish of Nm
Application No. 61.
Department of JV
Sydney, 22nd
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS PC
NOTICE is hereby given that
execute and take delivery of
Gold-mining Leases within thirty <
they will be declared void.
Gfeexaista and Bru
jfSAUTION.—In our style of
sudden changes of temper
and sunshine • 1 -u intermingles
it ia no wo ■... .. at our chil(
relatives are so frequently teks
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Bo
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a 1
and perhaps death, by the us.
doses For curing Consumpti
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Crc
of the Throat or Lungs, its succ
derful, as your druggist wil!
Syrup ia now sold in every tc
this continent. Sample bottle
regular size, 3s. Wholesale A
BROTHELS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into I
two years ago, where thousands
—and one year in Sydney; and som
of Rheumatism have been cured i
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long stai
Acute Hoad, Tooth, and Ear A'
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured b;
HEAD OFFICI
89 V/ATEELOO-ROAD, :
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STEBI
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALI
STEEET, SYDNJ
MANZANITA FBI
TEY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented i
Thousands of people in Sydney h
have been cured of Biliousness, Ii
ness, Sick Headaches, and all com
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATEELOO B
And 107 CASTLEEEAGH STE;
S. W. GAMBLE, Pro]
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLEI
PITT STEEET, SYI
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGEII P
FOB
INDI6E3T]
AND
STOMACH COMPLI
They are also much recomme
tive for Females, being safe, gent
their operation, leaving no disposi
and being free from any tendonc,
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer-
F. E. SLOP
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEN
OXFORD STREET i
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLg
THE GREAT LIVEE B
And Successful substitute for Ci
Podophyllum, and all Nor
Famous as a Restorative to Heal
Famous as an Invigorator of the
Famous for tho Cure of all Dison
Stomach. , _ .
Most famous As the only Tomo
Svos cold, and
bie most delicate of either sex, i
take them.
Bo Careful not to get 1
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepared
J. S. A B R A
At the Lahorato:
434. JGEOEGE STEEET,


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Mr. Spurgeon was'recently the guest of Canon
Wilberforce. There!
This year is the Jubilee year of the admission of
Jews as citizens of London,
~Rot- James Greenwood continues his free-
thought lectures at the Theatre Eoyal.
Archbishep Vaughan’s visit to the South
Coast districts will extend to Christmas.
One of the highest tributes (although paid un-
h° Ve at iven Irish race, was the recent
declaration by a Mormon Bishop that there are no Irith
men or women among the Mormons.
- J ho Mormon population at Salt Lake this year
« ®*> peC T d J bave au emigrant increase from England.
Wd n * d h aDd I GBrma ? 7 of 10 - 000 People. It’s to he
g( i cd , pe °P le will take the Bible with them,
it s the secret of greatness,
fti^n^f ) ?h*' er T Cdmp mee^n " is being arranged
religions organizations of the Ballarat and
Creswuck districts, to be held during Christmas week
at Feint Lonsdale, near Queensclitfe. A kind of
religions down-tbe-harbour orgie, in fact.
The other night, at All Saints’ Church, St. Kilda,
Victoria, a valuable picture—that of the Madonna and
Babe-was demolished, apparently by some iconoclast
who Lad conceived the idea that the object of his dis-
•Churchf ldQl and a snperfluity in tlie worship of the
While the Salvation Army, as represented by a
'attachment, were parading the streets of Beading,
■Sag., recently, singing hymns, they were attacked by
<a mob of two thousand people, who followed them up
«.ud smashed a number of windows in the Salvation
Barracks.
The official countenance given by the Russian
Government to the persecution of the Jews is explained
by a theory of M. Michelet, the historian. He identifies
au ® U3a j ans with the Babylonians, and points out that
the Russian doctrine, which treats the Czar as a human
god, is derived from the Babylonian dogmas. Nebu-
chadnezzar means “ No God but the Czar." Bugh or
Bogh is Sclavonic for God, and from the same
root is derived the word bogie. The strict
monotheism of the Jews is a rebuke to the political
system of deifying a monarch. Hence their persecution
by the ministers of the Czar.
Dr. E. C. Birrell, the eminent American scholar
and divine, has published an admirable commentary on
“ The Apocrypha of the Old Testament.” Strange that
so interesting a work, illustrating the religious condition
of the Jews from the Captivity to the birth of Christ,
has not more readers among ns.
The block of land upon which St. Matthias’s
schoolroom stands was sold last week for £3200
building not included. Unfortunately, the proceeds
cannot be devoted to church purposes, though it would
then just clear off the balance of the debt, and buy a
new set of tennis for “ those favoured few.”
Some of the Queensland papers have been
victimised. A correspondent sent them a squib giving
the names of the probable successors of Bishop O’Quinn.
Here they are:—The Eight Eev. Dr. Cani, Apostolic
Pro-Yicar; the Eev. Father Andrew Horan, of Ipswich,
and the Eev. Father Dunne, late of Toowoomba.
At the London Methodist (Ecumenical Council,
Eev. Dr. Eigg said: “ One of the most serious aspects
of the religious question is that the Church has begun
to organise amusements for its young people ; the
wretched performances under the Band of Hope, for
example, being more injurious than the high-class
drama itself.”
Dr. Ellis said last Sunday that during the eleven
months he has been here, with the exception of three
holidays, he had performed service in the Cathedral
every week-day at eleven o’clock, and, added he, slowly
and emphatically, “ sometimes with only the verger and
myself present.”
It was not true, as was currently reported last
week, that any denunciatory ceremony, with reference
to the marriage of a Hebrew gentleman, now deceased,
with a Christian young lady, took place in the Syna-
gogue. The report must have been promulgated in
ignorance of the present attitude of the Jews towards
the outer world. The bereaved lady, who was said to
have been the target for ecclesiastical fqlminations,
has, on the contrary, been ministered to in her trouble
by her late lamented husband’s people, with a large-
hearted philanthropy which it would be well if pro-
fessing Christians would more frequently attain.
During service at Trinity Church, Kelso, the
other Sunday evening, a small dog ascended the pul-
pit, mounted the desk, and commenced to hold forth
vigorously. He preached without notes, and was lis-
tened to with great interest. A churchwarden, how-
ever, dissented from bis dogtrine, and signified, with a
stick, that “dumb dogs which bark not" are preferred
in the churches of to-day.
Dr. Marsden has been lecturing at Mudgee on
Church work, and has adverted with regret to the want
of a Cathedral in his diocese. The Bishop spoke of the
business done at the recent Synod in Sydney,—but his
Lordship forgot to tel] the people how carefully the
rev. gentlemen, afraid of a serious split, avoided all
knotty points, and dealt only with questions on which
there was no real disagreement.
This is the state of affairs with regard to Pres-
byterianism in Victoria:—“The Freethonght patty in
the Assembly fight very cautiously, and more by
innendo than direct attack. When one gets behind
the scenes, by attending a few sittings, the state of
parties can be understood, but reports have to be read
very much between the lines. The party of dogmatism
and intolerance is - so overwhelming that the indepen-
dent members dare not speak their minds.”
It is reported from Gibraltar that three-fourths
of the Kotnaa Catholics there have refused to receive
the new Vicar-Apostolic, Dr. Canilla, Bishop of Lystra
m partxbus, because, forsooth, his father was a Gibraltar
tobacconist, while he himself, it is said, began life in
the local gas office! The latest phase of the business
is the exclusion of the Bishop from the Cathedral
Church. If things go on at this rate, high-toned
Christians will refuse to worship their Saviour because
he was the son of a carpenter. But, peihaps. the real
objection was that Dr. Canilla had begun life in a gas
office—possibly with meters five per cent. fast. The
hankering of ecclesiastics after gas offices begins to be
phenomenal.
The memory of the late Roman Catholic Bishop
°f Brisbane, the Bight Eev, Dr. James O’Qninn, will be
kept green by many things. The fact that Dr. O’Quinn
was the first biahop will always invest his name with a
certain amount of historic interest, but the self-denying
course of the late prelate’s life, as disclosed after his
decease, and as contrasted with almost dramatic effect
with the suspicions and doubts respecting the financial
accumulations which were entertained even by some of
his own flock, will always make the case of the late
Bishop one of singular concern. The salient points of
Dr. O’Quinn’s life-history almost romantic in its
struggles and accomplishments—have been fittingly
chronicled in an obituary notice by Tyr-Owen, a bio-
grapher who has succeeded in embodying within the
limits of a short pamphlet, a monody instinct with
tender feeling, and pregnant with valuable teachings.
Here is a description of the doings of the “ Sal-
vation Army” in one of the largest English cities:—
A shouting, screaming mob of the lowest types of
humanity, preceded and led by a number of women of
all ages and kinds, from the child of ten to the beldame
of seventy, and from the apparently respectable to the
veriest drab; and one and all giving vent to snch oriel
as “ Ooray for God 1 ” —" Jesus for me and my old gal 1 ”
—“Who’ll have a go o’ glory ? Here y’ are; salvation
all round, and nothing to pay”—“l’m a Allelujah cove,
and no mistake’’—“’Ere you are, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus!
’old on tighv **—“ Damn the devil I ’’ —‘ Three cheers
for the Holy Ghost, ip, ip, ooray I ’’—and more. Now
this horrid mob, accompanied by a brass band described
as highly intoxicated, was permitted to roar through
the streets, interrupt all traffic, insult and frighten
passers-by, to the disgust and wonderment of all decent
people. It’s pretty well the same in Melbourne.
There has been trouble in Kent-street Congre-
gational Church —but, notwithstanding its very peculiar
facility for obtaining information of everything that
transpires about this particular religious community,
no reference has, strange to say, been made to the
squabble by the leading journal. It would appear that
about a score of the members of the church started a
branch mission school in Sussex-street, which they
assert was furnished by subscriptions obtained by them
for a single purpose. The parent church, however,
appointed as superintendent of the school an individual
who did not “hit it’’ with the teachers, and pretty
soon there was unseemly discord at the mission. The
classes were scattered one by one, and finally the doors
closed. Then the teachers removed the furniture and
fittings, as being their own property, and were about to
start a school on their own account, when intimation
was made that the trustees of the Pitt-street Church
had commenced an action against the missimites. The
latter seem to be more valiant on spiritual things than
they are on temporal, for the school fixtures were re-
placed. The forgiving spirit was, however, wanting in
the hearts of the trustees, for a writ was subsequently
issued,—and the lawyers, after all, made something out
of the brethren of “the cloth.”
THE KOOKABURRA.
A boil is a pretty important gathering at times.
Do twelve finches make a foot ? No. Well,
can you make a perch with two feet ? This may be a
rood remark, and can’t he stood furlong.
A new musical composition is called “ The
Triumphal March of the Coroner.” It is founded on
the old song, “ Gin a body meet a body.”
Tommy Murnford : “ Mar, what’s a bur-
lesque ?” Mar: “ A play, my dear, in which the actors
and actresses take off things.” T. M.: “ What—on
the stage P” «
Overheard at the Club : “ Parnell seems to be
getting on quite swimmingly with the Land League ”
" Swimmingly ? perhaps—but it’s with the help of his
Cork buoys 1 ”
A Natal advertisement“ At the new Medioal
Hall, Pietermaritzburg, on the 30th inst., the wife of
W. Nolan, the people's chemist, of a son. Alive and
kicking.” This is a good Natal advertisement.
“ Do you sell Bibles and Testaments here ?”
inquired an elderly lady of a bookseller. “ Yes,
ma’am.” “ I don’t want any of the old ones,” said the
old one herself. “ I want a reversed Testament.”
Scene —South of Ireland. “ Good morning,
M’Murty.” M‘M.; “ Good morning, yer honor—fine
mornin’, thanks bit o’ God.” His H.: “ Fine morning,
indeed. Sad thing about that young man who was
killed yesterday.” M’M.: “Kilt, glory hit o* G»d—
kilt, how did that happen ? ” His H.; “He was thrown
from his horse and, never spoke after.” M’M.: « The
Lord he marciful to his sowl: (after consideration) but;
I say, was he—was, was he a Cathlick, or a Prodistan ? ’’
His H. •• “He was a Protestant, I believe.” “ M’M.:
“ Oh, to hell wid him ! ”
Paul Doroulfede was talking with an amiable and
very dlcolletoa lady in a salon, one night. On the lady's
breast was a diamond cross. A moment of silence. Then
the lady, affectedly : “Ton are looking at my cross ? ”
“Tes.madame.” ” Does it please you ? ” “Very much.
Mais je le Calvaire.”
At Southsea, Eng., the bath chairmen know
their habitual customers not by their names, but by
their diseases. Thus one gentleman is spoken of by the
fraternity as “The fracture." His usual man not being
forthcoming one day, he sought to engage the services
of another chairman, who excused himself, saying he
had to take out a lady abscess.
What has come over the Queanbeyan press
people ? We read in the Age ; —“ Ay, drunkard; Has
he not drunk and gambled away his means and almost
his home ? Nevertheless, I like thee lad; and I feel
towards you as though you were my own son, else you
should never ha’ come. Milburn Cree< Award.
An Unfinished Chapter of History. About the
middle of the year 1872 it was rumoured in the neighbor-
hood of Car. £115,601.” Mr. B. F. Pittmann
confirmed his extravagant 'estimate, although both
officers ought to have been aware and gone so
freely here. Though I say hard words to ye, Philip, I
like ye, and come back as ye say ye will—come back in
tw© years and Jeanie may be for ye ; but I will not have
her bound by any pro- Please, mum, as I’m
going out may I call and tell the piano tuner to come
to-morrow; I’ve noticed that when you play that it
want’s tuning very badly.—Mistress thinks it over, and
Mary has a month’s notice, that the mine was in
the market for sale at ‘ less than niue tenths of that
price. At this point Mr Baker makes the following
minute :—As I am personally interested in this matter
of the Milburn Creek mine I cannot, as a minister,
take any action," &o. &c. Now will the Age explain
oil this ?
The Victoria Hall, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
We give a sketch herewith of the Victoria Hall,
Caatlereagh-street; and the improvement in that
structure which our artist depicts, indicates what
may be done for city property by capital and enter-
prise. Some years ago this fine building stood
neglected, though situated in the busiest centre of
the city; but as soon as Mr. F. Scholer, the pre-
sent owner, invested in that and adjoining pro-
perty, there was an all-round advance in the value
of at least 30 per cent. Tottering structures
were pulled doWh, and new buildings erected in
their stead ; and extensive improvements effected
right through the whole property. Nor was the
social aspect of the work neglected. The hall.
Which is here illustrated, is an expansive structure,
splendidly ventilated, and embellished in the most
stylo of art. It has capital stage room,
Y k® usual accessories, and has very easy
facilities of ingress and egress. The arrange-
ments for lighting are unsurpassed. The floor and
gallery are pitched so as to afford a clear view of
the wage, and the ceiling and interior walls are
constructed so as to produce the best acoustic
effect. The opening of the Victoria Hall at the
a resent time is very opportune, as the School of
Arts is now to be closed so far as entertainments
are concerned. The Victoria can comfortably
accommodate between 800 and 1000.
Many a man thinks it is principle that keeps
mm from turning rascal, when it is only a full stomach.
He grateful, and do not mistake potatoes for principle.
A Little Tin Plate; and other Verses,
by Garnet Walch. —The title piece is an old
diggings story, with the simplest of plots. Two
mates, working day after day, destitute and desponding,
without getting even 11 colour," return night after night
to their tent, where a golden-haired child, Little Bill,
is the only gleam of sunshine in their cloudy lives.
Suddenly they strike the lead, gold thick as marbles,
but in the midst of their success. Little Bill sickens to
death. A bag of gold for the doctor’s fee could not save
him, and the boy passed away leaving only his favourite
toy, the little tin plate, as a memento. The father
worked on, amassing wealth, and slept with the plato
on his breast, and when an assassim crept in to steal
the gold it turned the deadly blow and saved his life.
The mates became millionaires, and now in the aristo-
cratic mansion (for one was a “ swell," and resumed his
position) the little tin plate holds the pride of place on
the sideboard, as a relic of the lost child with the
golden hair. This is the longest piece in the book, and
i well put together, conveying a graphic idea of the ups
and downs of a digger’s life. i,“ A Drug in the Market”
is perhaps the best piece. The “ drug" is a new chum,
white-handed and delicately nurtured, who stands “ re-
spectably unemployed” but very hungry, in Collins-
street, and watches the well-fed working men marching
down to their annual 8-hour picnic, with their ten bands
all playing different tunes. The airy way in which the
whole scene is sketched is very attractive, audit recurs
to the mind, accurate in all its details, every time the 8-
hour men march down George street on a similar errand.
“Wool is up," and “ Wool is down" are lightly and
humorously written, but they are simply talk in rhyme,
no deep current underneath. “ A Mountain Echo” is a
pleasing trifle, an echo of the old, old story, very read-
able, but not meant to be analysed. The pieces on the
whole have a decidedly plebeian ring about them, stud
therefore do not reach a high standard; for though there
may be just as much poetical feeling in low, as in high
life, still, plebeian language has to be used, and few can
so use that as to render it acceptable. It clashes with
poetical refinement. The language of the horny-handed
digger may be honest and healthy in tone, but it doesn’t
make good poetry. Even the master mind of a Bret
Harte had sometimes a difficulty to lift it out of vulgar
commonplace. However, Mr, Walch'a sketches are
clever, and his light verses interesting, but his small
book will not be famous, perhaps, beyond the end of
the present century, But, having read his lines
“InMemoriam” of Marens Olarke, the public know
the author to be capable of still bettor things.
INTERIOR VIEW OF THE VICTORIA HALL, CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,


T
HEA T R E
Lessee
Treasurer.
ROYAL.
Mr. S. Lazar.
Mr. Q. L. Goodman.
THIS EVEHING
Gilbert and Sullitan's New JEstbetic Opera
PATIENCE.
Admission—s«, 3b, 2?, Is, Doors open at 7 18, com*
menoe at 8.
WI L S 0 N ' S
GEEAT WOELD CIRCUS,
EVEEY EVENING, and WEDNESDAY and SATUE-
DAY AFTERNOONS.
All the Great Lady and Gentlemen Equestrians
All the Incomparable G.v rnnasts
All the Marvellous and Wonderful Acrobats
The Magnificent Stud of highly Educated Horses.
TO-NIGHT. TONIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
The Great THEODORE MATTHEWS
The Great WILLIAM MATTHEWS
LITTLE CHAELIE,
The most comical little Clown that ever entered the
arena.
The Great HECTOR
The Great FADE
The Great MOXEN, as August the Dummy,
Young Prinoo ADOLPHE
The Great GEOEGE SHIELDS, Australia’s Champion
Eider
The Groat Master COOKE
The Great O’BRIEN
ALL TO-NIGHT in a MAMMOTH PEOGEAMME;
and in addition to our regular performance,
THE GRAND STEEPLECHASE
over Hurdles, Water Jumps, and Terrific Cascades.
OUR SEASON
POSITIVELY DRAWING TO A CLOSE,
so embrace opportunity of witnessing the
GRANDEST LEGITIMATE and MOST REPINED
and
TALENTED CIECUS ENTERTAINMENT
ever presented to an Australian public.
FREE ADMISSION TO THE ORPHANS.
WHY NOT AMUSB THE ORPHANS ?
It has been my custom during my different tours
around the world to invite the inmates of Orphan and
other Charitable Asylums Free to my great Circus,
being amply repaid by the bright faces and hearty en-
joyment of these unfortunate waifs; so this arrange-
ment will be carried lout in all parts of Australia, and
managers of public charities of all denominations may
accept this as a
GENERAL INVITATION
to ATTEND NEXT WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON’S
Entertainment, and Every Wednesday Aftemcon
during our stay.
It is expected that the children will attend in a body,
and under the charge of their teachers.
VICTORIA HALL,
CASTLEEEAGH-STREET,
(Near King-street, close to Tramway and Omnibus.)
TO LET NIGHTLY, ON TERM, or LONG LEASE,
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENTERTAINMENTS.
The above Hall has Seating Accomodation for 800
people, is WELL VENTILATED, and Fashionably
Decorated. Stage 28’t. by 30ft., with NEW SCENES,
WINGS, &c., and is in all respects equal to the Hall of
the School of Arte, which it now supersedes.
Half-price charged for Charitable Purposes.
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOLER,
107 Castlereagh-street.
TOWN HALL, MUDGBE,
MAIN HALL open for Engagement after 15fch
December next. First-class Scenery, Gas, seats for 600.
Applications to be forwarded to
EBENEZER LOVEJOY.
Town Clerk,
Theatre royal, geafton
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat seven or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas ; lately pai ronised by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATBR.
Proprietor.
MR. EDWIN PALMER, LEADING and
CHARACTER OLD MAN, GAIETY THEA-
TEE, NIGHTLY.
MRS. EDWIN PALMER, HEAVY LEAD, and
LEADING OLD WOMAN, AT LIBERTY. Address :
Tenby House, Wynyard Square.
M E.
and MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
ZULU WAR.
ADDRESS:
Hobart, till November 16.
New Zealand to follow
INTERNATIONAL CRICKET MATCH,
Parramatta.
ALL-ENGLAND ELEVEN
v.
TWENTY-TWO OF CUMBERLAND,
December 7 and 8.
Excursion trains ; cheap fares.
ARDEN PALACE! GARDEN PALACE I
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC DAILY
from 1 to 6 p.m.
ADMISSION FREE.
ADMISSION FREE.
ME. EAWORTH’B
Grand Collection of Water-Colour Paintings.
JJONDI BEACH, BOND
BONDI PACIFIC PAVILION,
Open every SATURDAY AFTERNOON from 2to
o’clock, for DANCING.
The finest Pavilion in the Southern Hemisphere.
G. Bailey’s Excelsior Brass Band and efficient M.C.
in attendance.
Admittance, 25.; Ladies free.
A FIRST-CLASS BILLIARD TABLE.
The finest double SKITTLE ALLEY in the Colonies
J. HEINZ, Proprietor,
N.B. —Open for engagement for Picnic parties.
TTYDE PARK SALE-YARDS AND HORSE
11 REPOSITORY,
Adjoining Park House Hotel, Park-street, Sydney.
F. THORNTON GILBERT (original Proprietor in
1880 of Gibson’s late Horse Bazaar, Pitt-atreet) will
SELL by PUBIC AUCTION, daily, at the above-named
Yards; and trusts by his undivided attention to the
interests of his constituents, that he will meet with
that support from his old friends that will justify him
in the belief of future success. Sales at Camperdown,
or elsewhere, will he attended to with punctuality and
fidelity.
E. THORNTON GILBERT,
Auctioneer.
H [GHL A N D GATHERIN G.
CN NEW YEAR'S DAT, 1882.
PROGRAMME OF EVENTS.
HIGHLAND PIPING and HIGHLAND DANCING
lo • Adults and Boyo (under 15); prizes amounting to
J>43. For particulars see future advertisement Sailor’s
Hsrnpipe; three prizes, £1 10s. £l, and 10s. Irish
Jig, £2, £l. Pole Vaulting. £4 £2, £l. Hop, Step, and
Juno, £2. £1; and other events.
FLAT RACES—(To be run in divisions it deemed
requisite;. 100 yards Maiden Plato, for all those who
have never won an advertised prize ; two prizes, £4 and
£2 ; entrance, 2s 9d. 150 yards Handicap ; three prizes.
£l2, £3, and £l. 410 yards Handicap j three prizes, £7,
£2, and £1- One Milo Handicap; three prizes, £lO, £3,
and £l. Entrances to Handicap Events, sa. No en
trance will be received unless the competitor states in
writing tho racos competed for since olst December,
1879, and the position taken; and in the event of his
Btatemant not bearing verification, ho will be diequali-
fled. Any protest made to be in writing, and handed
in to the hon. secretary before tbo sports are over.
Colours to be stated at time of entrance.
Entrances will be received by the bon. secretary ai
the undermentioned address, and will close on SATUR-
DAY EVENING, 17th December next. Letters con
tricing entrances will bo received up to MONDAY
EVENING, 19th December.
WALKING MATCH. 1 mile and a half, handicap:
prizes, £6, £3, £T; entrance, 2s 61.
The committee reserve the rieht of postponing the
sports in the event of unfavourable weather.
All communications to be left atF. Punch’s Hotel,
Pitt and King-streets
H. J. CHISHOLM, Captain. Hon. Secretary.
duriatmas and New Year Cards,
JUST OPENED,
The Largest and Most Elegant Assortment
ever seen in Australia.
WILL BE SOLD AT LONDON PRICES.
EDWARD R. COLE,
IMPORTER OF BOOKS AND STATIONERY,
Corner of George and King Streets.
[Extract from the Evening News, November 5,1881.1
Mr. E. R. Cole, the bookseller, at tbe corner of
George and King streets, has an astonishingly large
and varied collection et Christmas Cards. We have
been shown by him some very ingenious!- arranged
mechanical cards, and some handsomely painted ones.
Some of tho former at first appear to bo very neatly
painted on one side, with suitable verses for tho Christ-
maatide of the year on the other; but, on closer inspec-
tion, it is observable that there is more to bo seen
inside, and on opening, a beautiful sotnted full blown
roso or other flower, quite natural looking, comes to
light. H> has also some fine cards with colonial flowers
which will prove interesting to recipients in other parts
of tho world. Indeed, Mr. Cole’s ante-rooms seem one
mass of beautiful cards, which must have cost him some
considerable amount.
[Extract from Sydney Daily Telegraph, Nov 2,1881.]
By the s.s. John Elder and other steamers, Mr. Cole,
of King and George streets, has received from the
principal manufacturers of London, Paris, Berlin, and
New York, a large assortment of Christmas and New
Year Cards, some samples of which have been sent to
us. They are of the most chaste and recherche de-
signs, comprising hand-painted floral and other patterns,
on cards and satin, mechanical cards, and elegant per-
fumed sachets. They will no doubt form an attractive
feature at Mr. Cole’s shop during the approaching
Christmas season.
[Extract from Sydney Punch, Nov. 5,1881.]
On the Cards—Whence this sweet perfume (sniff),
this balmy odoriferousness ? (sniff) Eh ! What ?
Presto l and such gorgeous tints ! Toby, is old Punch
dreaming ? No, by all that’s delightful! It’s an assort,
raent of Christmas cards and sachets from B. E, Cole.
Oh! charming, charming, charming 1
[Extractfrom the Freeman's Journal, Nov. 5,1881 ]
Christmas Cards. —As is usually the ease at this time
of the year, most of tho stationers’ windows in the city
are filled with all kinds of bright and prettily designed
Christmas cards. Mr. Edward Cole has evidently taken
more than ordinary pains this year to obtain a large and
varied collection of cards, and certainly those now on
view at his establishment, at the corner of King and
George streets, surpass in beauty and elegance of design
anything in this line that has ever been seen in the
colonies. By the John Elder and other steamers Mr.
Colo has received from the principal manufacturers of
London, Paris, Berlin, and New York, a splendid assort-
ment of Christmas and New Year cards, comprising
hand-painted floral and other patterns on cards and
Bdie, mechanical cards, elegant perfumed satchels, &c.
[Extract from The Bulletin ]
Cole’s Christmas Cards comprise a collection of the
greatest variety and novelty yet seen in this city. Tbe
best London and Parisian talent and taste seem to have
been devoted to their prodnetion; and it pretty clearly
shows that in respect of design and style we have in
these colonies yet something to learn. There’s another
point—marvellous cheapness.
EDWARD R. COLE,
IMPORTER OP BOOKS AND STATIONERY,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND KING STREETS.
The modern high school,
MOORE PARK.
The Education given is thoroughly Practical. Pupils
are prepared for various Professions and Examinations.
In proportion to its sizeltho Educational Staff is second
to none in tho Colony.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 25th November, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
GoVl-miniiig Leases within thirty days from this date,
they will be declared void.
ARTHUR EENWICK.
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 122; W. M‘Conne’l and others; Portion No. 8. L-
-201; C nmty of Bathurst, parish of Lennox; Area,
3a. Or. 2 ip.; Application No., Orange 10.
No. 133; J. Linfoot and others; Portion No. 8;
County of Bathurst, parish of Beneree; Area, 5a.;
Application No., 79-5.
Peel and Ukalla Mining District.
No. 245; T. M’Mahen and another; Portion No. 465
County of Murchison, parish of Donoga; Area, 4a. i
Application No., Bisgera 78-4.
Department of Mines
Sydney, 25th November, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from this
date, they will be declared void.
ARTHUR EENWICK.
No. 1150; W. F. Whitney and others; Pori ion No.,
14 ml; County of Kennedy, parish of Carolina; 80a.;
Application No., Cobnr Sll.
No. 1032; Jimmy For and another; Portion No,
21.3; County of Clive, parish of Annandaie; 20a.; Ap-
plication No , Vegetable Creek 447.
No. 1080; John Salmon and another; Portion No.,
49; County of Gough, parish of Hamilton; 20a,; Appli-
cation No., 350.
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTILITY TOGETHER!
WHEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or what can resist them P All three are
the ruling nrincioles at the
PALACE EMPORIUM.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES as proof both positive and certain of
the soundness of those principles upon which their business is based. The pTOpioinauranrao
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET,
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We are now showing daily
JUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS.
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You may profitably
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A VISIT to the P.
, spend a few moments
‘ALACE EMPORIUM
BEAUTIFUL SILKS.
SATINS, CASH-
MEBE, BEIGE, &c.
DRESSMAKING.
MANCHESTER
GOODS.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
LADIES* CHILDREN
MANTLES, COS-
TUMES, MILLI-
NERY, &c.
FANCY" GOODS.
YOUTHS* and MEN'S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ONLY ONE ADDRESS
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an immense assortment at la 6d, Is Bd.
and Is lOd per yard. Of the truly splendid JAUBERT GROS GRAIN SILK
there are 2000 yards at 2s per yard ; 2200 at 2s 3d; 10 pieces at 2s 6d per yard ;
10 at 2s 9d: and 10 at 3a. There are 3 cases, the prices ranging from 3s 6d to
10s6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GROS GRAIN, known as BONNET S
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s 6d, 4s 3d, sa, Cs 3d, up to 12s 6d. Our
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are beauty itself. Once see them, and
it will be long before you forget them. There is COLOURED SATIN ; also,
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 22d per yard. There is every shade.
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH BEIGE, all wool, all shades, 7£d a
yard. There is the fashionable SARATOGA COSTUME CLOTH, at 9d.
There are the INDIANRASHMERES, remarkably cheap and good; and there
is the lovely NUN'S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT, turning out
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly and yet carefully.
There are CALICOES in all makes and at low prices. There is DIMITY
FIGURED from s£d; TABLE DAMASK from ls4d; LINEN DIAPER at
all prices, and COTTON DIAPER at6d; GREY SHEETING from 6£d up to
Is 3d; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ranging from 7£d to ls7id; and Twill
from lOd up to Is 9d There are TURKISH TOWELS. 6£d each; and
HONEYCOMB, 2a lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED. 5s 9d; PRINTED, from 4a lid;
and the “ RENOWNED VELVET PILE,” 2ts, may be obtained.
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The goods are either button, elastic, or
laced. They are durable and fashionable. Yon may get anything hero, from
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LADY’S COURT SSOE.
There are 330 beautiful DOLMANS and JACKETS. There are 300 superb
COSTUMES. There is every sort of shape in STRAW HATS and BONNETS.
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sight in itself.
There is LACE,
There are RIBBONS, all shades, all colours, all prices.
Spanish, Cream, Gold, REAL BBETONNE, &o. The PALACE KJD
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innumerable.
There is a continuous stream of Customers for our SUITS for Youths and
Boys, and for our well-known cheap and fashionable TROUSERS, VESTS,
SUITS, SHIRTS, HATS, CAPS, COLLARS, SCARFS, and NECKTIES
for men.
And the groat point to be observed is this, that we have ONLY ONE
address, and NO BRANCHES whatever, our card of business being simply
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMARKET,
(ONLY,)
SYDNEY.
Trade
Mark
KEROSENE 150’ TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VERY SUPERIOR
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
Por Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning.
NO SMOKE OR SMELL.
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole Importers. Being refined and
packed expressly to their order, and every tin guaranteed, this oil should be tried by
EVERYONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
GOOD LIGHT.
TO PURCHASERS OF A SINGLE TIN, No Charge is made for delivery to any part of
the City or Suburbs. A Special Reduction made to Storekeepers for Trade Parcels.
F. LASSETTER AND CO.
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
V. -
¥T ' •
m
mm
*: • £:
a
riRTCTIS GLORIA MERGES.
COALCLIFF COAL.
T
HIS NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST. CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
XHs. FUR TON NET, delivered within City bound?.
This now Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars tent well free from ash, makes a stronger, more lasting
and cleaner fire than any other. In neither has the.objectionable smoky flare and soot of Newcastle coal, [nor does
it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum of some kinds of English coal of
heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the
steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwholesome fmr.es given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
DEPOT—WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.


American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received
—Adv.
There is only one opinion about it. A gentle-
man writing from Maryville, Gtmnodah, on the 22nd,
says:—“ I was induced to send for a sample tin of
Calcutta Tea, and I certainly have but one opinion
about it. viz:, that it is the host tea I ever used in my life.
Tour Calcutta Tea possesses all the excellence you
claim for it, and all my friends that have tasted it say
they will drink .nothing else.” The Calcutta Tea
Association’s Para Indian Teas are now finding their
■way into every country district, and arc everywhere
meeting with a reception as expressed in the above
extract. Ask your grocer to keep them, and see that
you gat the genuine article. Wholesale Warehouse, 28
Charlotte-place,— Advi.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The reception which “ Patience ” met with on
Saturday night at the Eoyal, at the hauls of an
Immense audience, which embodied every section of
the Sydney playgoer, goes a long way towards demon-
strating that the aesthetic craze is more closely under-
stood by the people than was generally surmised. Tho
readiness with which the pit took and applauded the
various points surprised us, and the enthusiasm
exhibited by the Fecial “two-hobbars” was a some-
what startling proof that the eccentricities of Miudle
and Postlethwaite are ns familiar in the flfteen-shilling a-
weefe boarding-house as in the Darting Point mansion.
The majority of the spectators who packed the stalls
were provided with books of the libretto; but tha
dress circle people (probably, on account of having
read so much about the Opera iu The Bulletin, and
knowing, in consequence, all about it), conteut-el them-
selves with studying their programmes and assuming a
critical air, —the ladies rattling fans continuously, and
masticating tooth-picks with a mechani-
cal precision that was very remarkable.
• * »
For some reason tho curtain was a quarter of
an hour late in rising, and the interval was passed by the
gods in a very'lively manner, “whooping" being con-
tinuous, and cat-calls frequent; while son?o of the more
facetious of the gallery-people p?lted the pit with pro-
grammes and orange-pips, and tho pit being in the joke
shelled tho stalls with the same harmless missiles;
pleasantries which, though typical of vivacity and good
humour, were conducive to no little uproar and confu-
sion. The moment Signor Giorza took his place, how-
ever, the house became as silent as tho late representa-
tive of N&rellan. Each man who was provided with a
girl fgjclutched her hand under cover of her dolman;
* and yjfi.ose unaccompanied by other fellows’ sisters
leaned forward in their seats and listened intently. All
was eagerness and suspense. Peeple with pocket-flasks
made pocket-flasks of them, and tho molar-gashed
oranges were hastdy thrust into bulbous hags, regard-
less alike of ginger-bread nuts and the baby’s bottle.
When the bell tinkled the excitement increased to
fever heat. Ladies’ fans were stilled as if by magic;
and strong men breathed in convulsive gasps. It was
an awful moment. We have seen nothing to resemble
it in dramatic intensity since the artist fumbled with
the bolt cn tha occasion of tho late Ned Kelly’s final
public appearance.
* * *
The opera is, like “Pinafore” and “The
Pirates,” in two long acts. For these a couple of very
elaborate “sets” have been painted from the London
models by Mr. Alfred Clint. The first of them —Castle
Bunthorne—though undoubtedly a fine effort, did not
strike us ns displaying any particular originality of
detail, but it was nevertheless a very clover and artistic
.view. The second scone—a glade—in tho foreground
of which is a brook with floating lilies, is a production
which wonld do credit to any artist, and we are only
too p'cn'Gil to take tho opportunity cf felicitating Mr.
Clint oh his success. At the same time, we may just
mention that Mr. Clint has, cf late, so frequently
exercised his artistic brush in embellishing the hoard-
ings around the city with landscapes, treated in an
almost identical style (for ho can do nothing badly),
that h?.d Messrs. Hardia and Gorman appeared in the
“distance” painted for tha Eoyal with a caravan of
omnibuses and a free lunch, and proceeded to dispose
of “desirable allotments,” we should scarcely have felt
an emotion of surprise. Tha properties, even to the most
trifling detail, were in the completest style cf modern
staging, and the dresses marvels which could only
emanate from the delicate fancy of a poet, allied to the
consummate cunning of tho costumier. The appear,
ance of the rapturous maidens iu their aesthetic cos-
tumes, wonderfully embroidered with all kinds of droll
effects in every possible combination of colour, was tho
signal for a great outburst of applause; and the dragoon
. officers wore no less successful in evoking a shout of
appreciation from the audience. These gall ant warriors’
uniforms are complete in every detail; and the novelty
of seeing real hessians, instead of tho eternal kid b ots
and American cloth tops, had evidently an exhilarating
effect upon tho audience generally. With ns it was a
moment of sublime content. Laying down our glasses,
we leaned back iu our teats, murmuring, “Real boots
at last, thank Heaven! ” and were quietly happy for
the rest of tho evening.
* * *
The Bunthorne of Mr. W. H. Yernon stands
out by itse’f as being a distinct and individual success.
From the first moment he appeared, it became evident
that he was not merely presenting to the audience a
carefully considered impersonation, but a deep, intel-
lectual, and artistic study. As tha eccentric creation
of the satirist, the actor entirely sinks his own identity.
He stands before the audience the breathing image of
Bunthorne, aud he never for a single moment—either
in speech or gesture—developed a visible trait outside
the lines laid down for him by the author. Both in
singing and acting the representation was faultless, and
tho highest praise which the critic can bestow is only
the just meed of an impersonation phenomenally excel-
lent in its every phase.
* # *
To Signor Eicoardi. who is new to Sydney, but a
great favourite iu New Zealand, was allotted the role of
Colonel Calverley, and it must bo admitted on all sides
that ho created a most favourable impression. His
enunciation of tha difficult patter-song, in the first act,
was beautifully clear, and all his other numbers were
given with equal success. His song. “ When I first put
this uniform on,” may be especially selected for com-
mendatioa ; and his acting throughout was remarkable
for an amount of verve and elan which are seldom met
with in the performance of an actor in a difficult part
which he plays for tho first time before a critical
audience in a strange city. Signor Eiccardi has a very
fine voice—an effective and penetrating bass—which he
manages with an ease which makes his hearers com-
fortable at once. Excellent as it is for singing pur-
poses, BignOr Eiccardi’s organ is even better in spoken
passages, his tone being full, resonant, and clear. It is
quite certain that he will be'a prime favourite with the
public. To Mr. Williamson’s company he is a most
valuable recruit.
* * *
Signor Verdi was fitted with a part, in Archi-
bald Gcosvenor, which suited him exactly. And he
IJtOj'.a about as picturesque a mortal as they make
notf-a-days. Iu splendid voice, he gave the
charming legend of the Silver Churn with great effect,
and in the comedy-part of the impersonation he de-
veloped comic powers which wo most certainly did not
give him credit of possessing.
« « •
Mr. Armes Beaumont’s conception of the Duke,
gauging his performance not only by the interpretation
of the character which he gave us on on the first, but
on a subsequent night, is one which is chiefly remark-
able for extreme feebleness. Mr. Beaumont spoke tbe
lines allotted to him exactly as he has been wont to
enunciate those of Frederick. Ha never, for one
moment, adopted the tone of a blase young nobleman,
but invariably spoke ih the voice of a popular young
tenor. In the introduced song, to which exceedingly
pretty music has been written by Signor Giorza, he on
the first night, broke down lamentably in the second
verse, his individual fiasco actually for some momenta
imperilling the success of the piece. In speaking of
this song, by the way, the Ingenuous youth who fulfils
the post of critic to the S. M. Herald remarked, after
the first performance, that it was pointless. The value
of this statement will become apparent when we inform
our readers that, in consequence of Mr. Beaumont’s
extreme nervousness, the words of tha song wore in-
audible “in front.” On Tuesday night, however, Mr.
Beaumont had taken pains to obviate so unfortunate a
contretemps as he was responsible for on the first night,
and delivered the song with clear enunciation. As he
was, moreover, in very good voice, tho composition had
a fair chance, alike as regards its literary and musical
merit. Both composer and writer have been singularly
successful in their endeavours to adapt their production
to tho style of the piece. The rhythm and character of
Signor Giorza’s music fits in very happily with Sul-
livan’s manuer, and the text of the song sparkles with
jeux d'esprit and whimsicalities, which Gilbert himself
would find it hard to outvie. Tha critic of the Herald
should not permit .personal pique to deflect his judg-
ment in dealing with a public performance.
• • •
Mr. Fordo, who played Major Mugatroyd, has
very little to do, and It would have been as well had he
been content with that little. The comic business he |
chose to indulge iu, when gabbed in his aesthetic dress
in the second act, was by no means happy, and if
persevered in wonld be found to jar upon the feelings of
the audience. Mr Watson, who was down in the bill
as Mr. Bunthorna’s solicitor, had nothing to do except
to see to the paraphernalia of flilnthorne's raffling ap-
paratus, aud accomplished that much satisfactorily—his
black cloth clothes causing a ludicrous contrast with
the biza; f j dre;B3s of the other artists.
* •
Among the ladies, Miss Maggie Moore achieved
the mo»t distinct hit. It may bo questioned, neverthe-
less, whjthar her personal success in the part of Lady
Jane was not achieved at the expense of the author, or
by a considerable invasion of the effect intended to be
produced by the character. Lady Jana is obviously
meant to be quietly whimsical—a queer, incomprehen-
sible, inexplicable being, but always in a minor key—
subdued, and a !ady. Miss Maggie Moore’s brimming
spirits carried her altogether outside this conception.
She was subdued, indeed—for her—but, as Lady Jane,
extremely pronounced. In lieu of distilling fun, she
made fun, introducing broad burlesque effects in situa-
tions whore, evidently, Mr. Gilbert’s intentions had
been to tickle the public, not with a pole,
but with a feather. Wo may instance Miss
Maggie’s antics with her violinoello as, perhaps,
the most glaring instance of this misconcep-
tion of Lady Jane’s “ business,” but something
of the same was app irent throughout her performance.
At the same time it is but fair to say that the audience
enjoyed Miss Moore’s Lady Jane as heartily as a Lap-
lander revels in cold whale, and her duet with Bua-
thorne was tho hit of the evening. The people caught
the a’r directly, and that night
“ f ing * Booh to you—pooh, pooh to you,'
Sing • E ih to yon—ha ! ha ! to you,’
Sing ‘ Hoy to you—good day to yon—’
And that’s what you shall say !”
was bellowed in many a suburb. Mrs. Williamson’s
dress is a great curiosity. The groundwork is of black
silk, but it appears to be embroidered with every im-
possible bird and flower the brain of a mad aesthete
could suggest. Her fan is a huge sunflower, and she
wears a black wig of a tragic pattern. She never
laughs, and her walk is iu itself a study; being partly
“ Botticsllian ” and partly melo-dramatio, but wholly
unique and irresistibly droll. Miss Maggie Moore’s
departure for New Zealand will oblige her to relinquish
the part on Saturday night, when it will bo played by
Madlle. Andrea Navaro, as previously announced in
this j mrnal.
# # *
Mias Alice Eees, who has everything in her
favour voice, appearance, and ingenuousness—was,
ou the opening night, to a certain extent a disappoint-
ment as Patience, inasmuch as her delivery of the
text betrayed marks of insufficient study, and in some
of her scenes she betrayed a degree of stiffness where
she should have evinced complete unconsciousness ;
aud moreover did not sufficiently “ speak up.” At a
subsequent performance, however, of these defects only
one remained —the stiffness —and that in a modified
degree. There is every excuse for this small short-
coming in so young and inexperienced an actress as
Miss Bees. The part of Patience is one of extreme
difficulty—the lino between an easy simplicity and an
inelioJtive insignificance being beyond measure hvrd to
preserve. We doubt whether there is any singer now
on the Australian boards who could have approached a
perfect delinea' ion so nearly as Miss Eees does, maljra
the shortcoming we have alluded to. Miss Fanny
Liddiard made a Lady Angela of surpassing loveli-
ness ; but she made up a trifle too pale, aud she might
with advantage follow tbe advice we have tremblingly
tendered to Miss Alice Eees. Miss Lillie Forde and
Miss Bessie Royal were satisfactory as Lady Saphir
and Lady Ella respectively ; and the choruses, both
male and female, were excellent.
# # #
The music of tho opera is in every way remark-
able. Mr. Sullivan has in this grand effort sur-
passed all his previous efforts. Ho has aimed higher
aud shot further than ever before. To Mr. Gilbert’s
strange quiddities he has wedded music of an appropri-
ateness altogether remarkable. So apposite fs tho
style, that probably very few among the audience,
during the first few nights, noticed the mrsic at all,
simply on account of the exactness with which it
harmonizes with the spirit of the action. There are
not many barrel-organ melodies, but tha orchestral
effects are wonderfully clever. To take one example,
the music which accompanies the dragoon’s chorus—
“ Now isn’t this ridiculous?’’—makes the sound an abso-
lute echo to the sense; and the repetition later on, “ Now,
isn’t this ridiculous ? Mystic poet, hear onr prayer," is
set to the queerest music one can imagine, albeit always
masterly and carefully wrought out. Again, Bun-
thorne's recitation, “Am I alone,” &e., has an or-
chestral accompaniment of the most bizarre character.
The cymbal chorus is another striking effect, and in
the way of quaint dolefulness the “Willow, willow,
waly !” sung by Patience and Qrosvenor, is transcen-
dent. The orchestra did its duty excellently. The two
horns which have been enlisted were of inestimable ser-
vice in bringing out the weird effects so largely em-
ployed by the composer. A bassoon would have been
an invaluable addition, but we presume no player is
obtainable at present.
* # #
In a word, “ Patience ” is one of the greatest
successes (artistically, any way) that Sydney has ever
seen, and the opera should enjoy the longest run ever
accorded to a piece in Australia.
* * * *
The Onera House inaugurated a new era in its
varied fortunes on Saturday night by the production of
Tom Taylor’s drama, “The Fool’s Rsvenge,” with Mr.
James Carden and Miss Maraton Leigh in the parts of
Bertuccio and Fiordelisa. The piece tha hew arrivals
selected in which to make a bow to the Sydney public,
while being a strong one, has the disadvantage of giv-
ing all the “ fat ” to the stars; the rest of the company
being rendered painfully subservient to the principals.
The plot of “ The Fool’s Eevenge ” has been long ren-
dered familiar by the opera of “ Rigoletto,” and is one
of those “ off-oolour” fables so dear to the heart of the
Tuscan. The production abounds in abduction, seduc-
tion, and destruction, and the dialogue is interlarded
with those long speeches so fondly cherished by the
gloomy melo-dramatist. For all this, however, it is a
well-constructed play, and affords abundant scope to the
principals for the display of almost every species of
dramatic talent.
* * , * —~~~
Mr. Carden is essentially an actor of tbe trans-
pontine or melo-dramatio order, and his successes at
home have been chiefly confined to provincial theatres,
and to London bonses “ over the water.” Ha does not
appeal so much to the cultivated mind as to the sand-
wich-box and campstool section of the theatre-going
public. Notwithstanding all this, he possesses un-
doubted power, and his representation of Bertuccio
was marked by much vigorous acting and not a little
declamation of a very skilful kind. Mr. Carden has a
good voice, and a capital stage presence, and he dressed
the part of the jester with studied appropriateness.
# * #
The Fiordelisa of Miss Marston Leigh is a part
by which we would prefer not to guage her talents. It
is unstated to her, in our opinion, not because she is
histrionically incapable of interpreting it, but on
account ef her being physically unsuited for the part
of an ingenue. Miss Leigh’s principal charm lies in her
voice, which is pleasant to listen to, her periods being
curiously musical and rhythmic. That she possesses
considerable dramatic power wo cheerfully admit, and
we should not be surprised if the lady established her-
self a firm favourite with a distinctly defined portion of
the drama-loving community.
# * *
Eg Mr. E. B. Boothman was cast for Manfredi, but
we cannot say that his efforts wore very successful.
This gentleman, from what we have seen of him lately,
appears to acquire mannerisms with the same facility
that Scotch girls acquire freckles, and his laugh and
gestures are so painfully aniflcial that it is a positive
supplies at times to contemplate his performance. These
are faults which can aud should be remedied without
delay ; otherwise Mr. Boothman, notwithstanding the
fact that he is stage-manager, should content himself
with some more subordinate part. Mr. J. H. Martin
gave a quietly effective representation of Malatesto, but
Mr. E. Hollowav and Mr. Medus made a couple of
nobles that looked as If they had stepped from the froht
of Richardson’s Show on to tho stage of tho Opera
House. Mr. C. Scagrave was good as Bernardo, and
exhibited, as ho always does, much care iu the delivery
of his lines—uo matter whether there be points iu
them or the reverse. Mr, J. A, Patterson scored a
decided success as Dell’ Aquila, the poet, playing with
a smoothness and ease which contrasted very pleasantly
with the jerky style of the giddy Manfredi. This is
the second success Mr. Patterson has scored during the
last month—a favourable notice of his performance
of the Gaoler in “ Never Too Late to Mead” having but
recently appeared in this Journal,
# # *
Mrs. Holloway was effective as Francesca, but
at times the charnel-house tone she is so fond of adopt-
ing might well have been avoided. Miss A Leslie was
Qinevra, wife of Malatesla, and looked so charming
that we at once forgave Manfredi for being 6pris a son
J/ard. Brigitta, a servant, was enacted by Miss Julia
Featherstone. We don’t rememebr ever having seen
this lady on the stage before, and if the touch of her
quality to Which she treated ns the other night be a fair
criterion of her dramatic ability, we pray to heaven we
may never see her again. Not only had she to be
prompted constantly, but by voice, gesture, and
“ make up,” she showed herself to be an utter tyro in
her profession, and achieved the peculiar feat of making
an unimportant part stand out in bold relief by reason
of its astoundingly bad interpretation.
• • •
Tho piece was neatly put on the stage, Mr. Wil-
son’s skilful touch being apparent in the scenery. On
Saturday will be produced a coravdy by Gilbert (intro-
ducing an roithetic family),in which there is some rare
humour. It is called “ Tom Cobb, or Fortune’s Toy,”
and is in our opinion one of the funniest comedies ever
written.
* * * *
That Mr. Dampier should have a good benefit
at the Gaiety will rejoice all those who take a true
interest in the more elevated phases of the drama, Mr.
Dampier wisely selected “ Hamlet ”, as his piece de re-
sistance, and he once more repeated his study of the
melancholy Dine with all his wonted effect and artistic
finish. Mr. Drmpier’s brilliant and scholarly imper-
sonation of Hamlet is entirely an original assumption.
Ho makes the Danish prince to be an ordinary mortal,
not mad, but rendered desperate by tho sense of his
own wrongs, and the evil-doing of that "incestuous
beast,” who is really so very bad, indeed, that did he
live in modern times he could suitably fulfil no post but
that of either a libel-case juryman ora picnic policeman.
# * *
The support accorded to the star was, on the
whole, unequal. The Horatio of Mr. Sefton was highly
unsatisfactory, both as regards conception and delivery.
His costume, too, was most unsuitable, resembling more
that of a low comedy “drawer" in a mediaeval comedy
than that of Hamlet’s schoolfellow. Mr. Carey gave a
fine rendering of the Ghost; bat the extraordinary
make-up which Mr. Rainford chose to adopt as the
King marred what wonld otherwise have been an intel-
ligent performance. Mr. A. Boothman was excellent as
the First Piayer, speaking the Hecuba speech with
great effect, aid being rewarded with well-deserved
applause. Mr. Edwin Palmer’s Polonius was satisfac-
faotory, without developing any new points ; and Mr.
Sam Poole was quaintly droll as the First Gravedigger.
The Eosencrants and Guildaustern of Messrs. Leslie
and Tasman, respectively, wore painstaking perform-
ances, bat these gentlemen content themselves too
much with time-honoured precedent, and seldom strive
after originality. Mr. Emmet’s Laertes was fair,
but not brilliant, an unfortunate mannerism of his
militating against his success in a romantic impor-
sonatlon.
# • # *
The Ophelia of Mias Marion Melrose was very
picturesque, her appearance being such as to at once
“get” the more susceptible portion of the audience.
The young lady, however, has yet much to learn in the
enunciation of blank verso, and would do well to study
the art of " concentration ” from Mrs. Gladstane before
essaying another tragic part of a high-class character.
Miss M. A. Melville (our own Mary Anne !) played the
Queen with considerable effect, and sported a magnifi-
cent ermine-lined cloak. We have seen a good many
real Queens in our time, but we can conscientiously
state that we never beheld one of them wearing a cloak
that could row in the same boat with Mary Anne’s
Miss Maggie Forde was the Player-Queen, and looked,
as is invariably the case with her, charming in the
extreme.
# # #
Mr, Dampier enacted the part of Louis XL on
Friday and Monday nights, and achieved a success of
no ordinary kind. From first to last, his impersonation
was marked by much ability and scholarship
The performance was a grand intellectual treat,
the death scene being an instance of histrionic
skill but seldom to be met with. Mr. W. Q.
Carey was excellent in the exiled Due da Nemours, and
Mr. Harry Emmet, though a trifle stagey, made an
effective Cottier. Mr. A. Boothman’s Francois de Paule,
though somewhat robust, gave general satisfaction, and
of the Olivier Dam of Mr. Sefton tha same may be said.
Mr. J. H. Rainford, as Tristan L’Hermite, committed
the same error in that part as he Jdid in the King in
" Hamlet,” making up his face in a manner suggestive
of Radclitfeau dungeons and corpse-lights dancing upon
murderers’ graves. He should recollect that the Gaiety
is only a theatre of small dimensions, and lay on the
chalk and Indian ink with a light hand.
# # •
Miss Amie Adere played Martha very nicely,
indeed; and Miss Maggie Forde prattled prettily in a
tall pointed hat. and was as usual very neat about the
shoes. Miss Teresa Horan played a peasant named
Julie, in which she had little t» do, and Mies Eugenie
Horan enacted Arma, in which she had less to do ; but,
as both the young ladies looked charming, the language
,of the eyes for once but all know the time-honoured
aphorism.
* # #
“ All for Gold ” will be played at the Gaiety on
Saturday, and Pettitt’s “ Black Flag ” is talked of
Mr. Dampier has several of the novelties he brought out
with him under consideration. It is at this moment
only a question of Venibarras du choue,
* * * *
Mr. Wilson Le Couteur writes to say that the
Montague-Tumer company opened at tha Princess’s
Theatre, Dunedin, to a great crowd, and were thoroughly
successful. We don’t exactly see how it could be
otherwise,
* * * *
Mr. J. W. Dodge has taken the Sandhurst
theatre, and opens with Wyhert Reeve on Boxing-
night, supported by Miss Flora Anstead and a good
crowd. He is to play a succession of stars, aud Mr.
George Ireland is engaged in the company.
* * * *
The Garrick Club of Maitland, which, if the
programme is to be believed, includes no less a person
than George Rignold, played two nights at the New.
castle theatre, last week, under the patronage of the
English cricketers, who, however, never turned up.
The amateurs did not play for any charity, but as the
two uights’ receipts amounted only to £11155., wo will
not stop to inquire what the club did with the profits.
The advertisement in the Newcastle Herald conjures
the people not to “fail to see these masterly perfor-
mances,” a bit of delicious check, which only an
amateur could be guilty of. Three ladies were starred
to appear in conjunction with this “knock-down of
talent”: —Misses Fanny Rogers, Nellie Edwards, and
Emily Kendall.
* * * *
A Gift Show at the Masonic Hall opened on
Monday, and has. we believe, been doing good biz. It
is called “ The World,” and first you look at the
pictures, and then you collar your coffee-pot or biscuit,
box. This sort of thing ought to be popular. Wo will
look iu shortly, and bear away a kitchen-dresser and a
box-iron.
* * * *
South’s company is playing at Wagga. James
is on to get “ Patience ;’*■ but the groat J. C. intends
only to dispssa of the New Zealand right.
* * * *
A complimentary banquet to Mr. Arthur Garner
is on tha tapis. We trust that after dinner Arthur will
give us his views on the theory of making money by
Australian theatres, with a few dissertations 6a the
abstract science of growing whiskers.
* * *'*
Tho little dwarf is still at the Yio. vestibule.
When you pay sixpence to go in now, they give you a
hair watch-guard or a suit of clothes. The rengnetio
lady appears to have deserted D ominic, so now the rat-
poison is carefully kept out of his reach,
** * *
A New York paper says that during a scrimmage
at the theatre, Emily Soldcne got tho tip of one of her
ears bitten off. Nothing is said about the super, whose
head was dentally decapitated by Emily, who, in her
fright at being discovered, carried it about for ssvcral
days in her left cheek, giving out that it was a gum-boil.
** * *
Oh, for a harp to sing tha beauties of tha
Circus! Were not our laureate absent without leave,
he should weave lyric garlands about John’s show,
which would at once idealize it above every earthly
hippodrome. Dropping down to mere dull prose, wa
can only say that the steeplechase is the most exciting
thing on record, and that there’s more humour ia
Barney than could bo drawn oat of a waggon-load of
“ corner-men,” The riders are all fearless, and tho
festive Adolphe charms tho gaze cf the ladies nightly,
while the clowns alone are worth riding fifty miles iu
one of Cobb’s coaches to listen to. Mr. Wilson de-
serves our thanks for giving us all such a fine treat,
and we hope that he will carry away as much Sydney
gold os his merits entitle him to do; iu which case', tho
big drum will have to play the part of cash-box.
** * *
Ben Allah showed, for one night only, at the
Victoria Hall, on Monday lost. He advertised to con-
jure, and to give away a splendid array of presents.
He did conjure, but the gifts ho lavished on the audi-
ence were of the most primitive description. Slate
pencils and penny whistles, we understand, were
among tho principal gifts, the jewellery having been de-
layed on the road by the linch-piu coming out of the
waggon wheel. Ben Allah announced, when the audi-
ence displayed tokens of dissatisfaction, that ho would
play on Wednesday night for the charities, but, wa
believe, important business called him quickly into the
country, and prevented kis doing so. Ben is called by
those who know and lave him, “the song and dance
performer.” That is, because he has a knack of singing
in one town, and dancing off to another. We don’t
know where he has gone to, or whoa he is coming back,
bnt wculd like to. And so would about, 25.UC0
of the slate pencil recipients. Ban had a £69 house,
and his show part was good. For further information
respecting this gifted performer, apply to well,
Benalla.
"THE POOR PLAYER.”
Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Raphael’s opera did good business at Launces-
ton, bad at Hobart. Company badly in hand—fair
material marred by want of system and good direction.
The new Mudgee Town Hall, to be opened Decem-
ber 15, and thereafter to bo available for theatrical
entertainments, etc., is a fine building and has one of
the best staircases out of Sydney. Tho hall seats 600,
is well lit with gas, and has first-class stage accessories
from the well known hands of Messrs. Kinchola and
Thomas, of the Gaiety Theatre Luscombe Botfrr-.1l
has sent us, from San Francisco, a new song composed
by him —“ The scent of the rose is sweet." It is quite
up to the average of Mr. SearrcU’s compositions, which
are invariably pure and melodious. From tho title,
one would expect to hear a sentimental love-song, bub
those who'go over the music will find that “Tho
pleasure of wine is sweet,” would have been a title far
more appropriate to tho ditty, which is essentially a
wine song. It commences in 2-4 time, aud finishes
with a graceful waltz movement Professor Pepper,
at latest, thought of visiting Charters Towers It is
said that two of the Melbourne theatre? have fixed on
the same subject for the r Christmas pvntomime
“ The Australian Comedy and Opera Bouffo Co.” have
been playing to tolerably good houses at the Assembly
Hall, Guudagai Ashton’s circus is hilled for tho
sth December at Giatton “Pinafore” at Bur wood
in a few days. The amateurs are all ready. Thirteen
single cousins, a captivating local Josephine, and a
dashing Hebe They can’t get anyone plain enough at
Burwo d to play Buttercup Barry Sullivan, era ho
donned the sock and buskin, was a draper’s assistant in
Cork. Ono evening he walked along i’airick-stree’, his
soul wrapped up in Richard the Third. Just as he came
opposite Father Mathew's statue, where a bobby was
stationed, ho happened to glare flercr-I' - , as he exclaimed
“ Off with his head! So mu h for Buckingham!” “ Off
wid me head is it ?” echoed the bobby, “ be gob, but it’s
aff wid yez whole carcase to the pollis station, me gay
buck!" And Barry would certainly have been “run
in," only the policeman’s name wasn’t Power Al.
Hayman arrived in London, Sept. 8, from Australia,
for the purpose of securing an opening for Miss Louise
Pomeroy. He intended sailing for New York, 14th
Madame Sibley is to appear at Dubbo next week
The “inimitable Barlow” is drawing good houses at
Fremantle, W.A The Japanese troupe had rather
poor houses at Townsville. They are a clever little
company, but not “ high fl wn” enough to suit Towns-
villa critics. Professor Lorenski played one night
there, on his return from Charters Towers. It was his
benefit night, and after paying his expenses, was about
£5 out of pocket.
Captain W. Adams.
Few men in the colonial mercantile marine are better
known than the subject of this sketch, Captain W..
Adams, of the Coonanbarra. For thirty-three years he
has been in positions of responsibility- having been
twenty-four years in actual command. Ho was captain,
in succession, of tha Tamar, Eagle, Thistle, Yarra
Yarra, Clarence, Illalong, and Cawarra, names associated
with the prosperity and growth of cur colonial steam
fleet. Of those vessels five have, since he ceased to com-
mand them, been wrecked. Daring tha whale period
of his service, Captain Adams has not had a single
mishap to any one of his vessels. Captain Adams was
born in Yorkshire, in 1829, and early in life selected the
sea for his profession. In 1848 he came to this colony,
and in 1850 shipped in one of the A.S.N. Co.’s fleet.
Nineteen years ago the company brought out the Coon-
anharra at a cost of £30,000, a vessel which was built at
the right time, and which is now one of the staunchest
vessels in the coasting trade. Strangely enough, ou
her first trip she ran ashore south of Newcastle. After,
wards. Captain Adams was appointed to the command,
and he has held the position over since. The tun
between Sydney and Newcastle is short, but owing to
the dangerous entrance to the latter port, it is
attended, in rough weather, by difficulties requir-
ing skilful seamanship, courage, and judgment. Tha
Coonanbarra has weathered numerous storms, notably
those known as the Dandenong and Cawarra
gales, and for fourteen years has not cost her owners £5
for repairs of accident. Six years ago, tha A.S.N.
Company, at a cost of £14,009, fitted her with now
boileri, and recently the Newcastle Steamship Co , now
her owners, spent £6OOO in giving her a thorough over-
haul, and increasing her passenger accommodation.
Last yoas when Company were giving up
their Hunter trade. Captain Adams was the recipient
from the company of a highly eulogistic testimonial
and a purse of sovereigns iu recognition of his thirty
years’ service—and at about the same time ho received
a similar compliment from the wealthy stockowners of
the Northern District fer the care manifested by him in
their interest for more than twenty years. Our sketch
is from a portrait by Boyd.


PEPPER AND SALT.
How does that man earn hialivin??” enquired
a wealthy shopkeeper of a friend, as a well-known par-
sonage pissed down the street—“ what does he do for a
livelihood ?” “ Sits sn the bench,” was the calm reply.
Ho was in the Police Court, and was defendant
in an assault case. He looked up at the bench, and
counted “1, 2,3, 4,5, 6.” Then rising from his seat, in
a hurry, he rushed out of Court, followed by a police-
man. “Are you mad?" cried the crusher. “Mad,”
said the defendant, “ I should think I was. Why, here
it is nigh on twenty minutes past ten, and there’s three
of my magistrates not turned up.” .... They
arrived in cabs later, and the defendant was discharged
by a majority of the bench.
• • •
Scone : A Government office, not many months
ago. First chief to second ditto : “ Confounded bother
about young Hevons altering that cheque. Well, we’ll
look out sharper nest time. Now, about filling this
vacancy, whom have you got ?” Second chief, promptly s
“Just the very man; he’s a good clerk, splendid ac-
countant, and thoroughly honest. Only one thing against
him—he’s dark.” First chief, with emphasis: “Ohl
damn colour ; don’t care if he’s a Chinaman, so long as
lie’s honest. We’ll appoint him.” Another scene:
Water Police Court, last week. Committed for trial.
* • •
We have just opened a little paper published in
Melbourne called Figaro, which, like the Bulletin of
that city, is the organ of nurse girls and butcher-boys.
The journal, however, in addition to its kitchen and
stable generalities, has a column sketch headed “Bather
Annoying,” which is no more and no less than one of
our “ Popper and Salt” pars, appropriated bodily and
without acknowledgement. Its commercial department
appears to have b.e.i somewhat neglected, since its
columns are only graced by one halt inch advertisement,
and not a single correspondent appears to have com-
municated with the editor. There is, we should say, a
brilliant career before the conductor of this journal.
And possibly it will not bo very long before there is a
boot behind him.
« • •
There’s a fakir at Lucknow who must be a
n lineal descendant of cither Shadrach, Mesbac, or
Ahednogo, or all three. He can stand more heat than
the Evil One, and it takes 2100 barrels of ignited
petroleum to put him in a gentle perspiration. Ho can
stand close up to a fire produced from eleven cart-loads
of combustibles, aud remain there for hours, as cool and
pleasant as a block of Wenham ice, while the spectators
dare not approach within 20 J yards. So much for living
a virtuous life. Wo got this account from the Wol-
longong Argus originally, aud of course we’vo added lo
it ourselves, for we don’t like the Wollongong Argus
to think we’re entirely dependent upon it for news
items; but it’s true, except that part about the 20C0
barrels of petroleum—wo invented that, and if the rest
isn’t reliable, we’ll never trust a Wollongong paper
again.
In Ind there’s a singular saint,
So free from iniquity’s taint.
Ho envelopes his frame
In a garment of flame,
You’d swear he’d be burnt, hnt ho ain’t.
This poetry is onr own, and there’s nobody on the Wol-
longong Argus who can produce anything like it—at
least we hope not.
• • «
Lot us see—what was the cost of that palace
that was built for his Lordship Simm Bar-Jona about
the year I ? However, it doesn’t matter much, for wo
find, according to a recent cablegram, that Mr. John
Pease, a well-known philanthropist, has promised to
provide a palace for the Bishop of Newcastle, 'i bo cost
of the palace will be £12.000, and is to be n free gift.
Aud in the self-same city, honest, struggling men fall
by the way, aud die for the want of a crust of bread, or
the sorapt which the dogs pick up from the tesselated
floor of Hives. The poor we have always with us, but
who in thunder wants them? Not the Bishops, any-
way.
The Salvation Army is, wo hear, to shortly visit
ns. so that a good time may be confidently anticipated.
The A'-my, it appears, has a paper called The Wah-cet,
which is written on the gentle lines of the Protestant
Standard, and Iras a circulation very nearly as large
as that of The Bulletin, about 250,000 being sold
weekly. We haven’t seen a copy of that journal yet.
but we can hazard a pretty good guess at its general tone
from some other portions of the gallant warriors’ litera-
ture which wo have casually dropped across. ' Outside
the Theatre Eoyal, Carlisle, which is the head-
quarters of the Army, is placarded a huge three-sheet
poster, npon which is printed the following legend:—
“ Here’s a pretty go ! Major Burrows is going to let
fly at Bishops, Deans, Canons, and Deacons. He’s go-
ing to send his salvation bullets into them; and
there’ll be plenty more to let fly as well. Come thieves,
come liars, come murderers, come harlots, come every-
body, and bring everybody with you. There’ll be a
jolly fine breakfast in the morning, at which King
Jesus will preside, and when it’s over wo shr.ll send up
twenty thousand hallelujahs washed in His blood to
heaven I We shall then march round the town with a
brass band and King Jesus at the head." We have re-
ceived up to the time of going to press no information
as to the name of the gentleman who is to impersonate
Jesus in this colony, but we have no doubt a competent
representative of the character will bo easily found
npon the most reasonable terms; and we aro perfectly
confident that, should the “Army" give a “jolly fine
breakfast" in this city, it will be suitably atttsnded.
# # *
Tho Newcastle people are singularly situated in
regard to the manner in which their local literature is
provided. Long-suffering as they have been under the
torture-inspiring lucubrations of Cave-the-decrepit,
there is yet, it would seem, another newspaper-thorn in
the sides of the unhappy coal-whippers. We have
received some copies of a sheet called the Dispatch,
which is certainly a journalistic phenomenon with a
vengeance. It is all about housemaids, butcher-boys,
and engine-cleaners, hut the editor (!! Ij states in a
notice that he only holds himself responsible for what
appears in his “ loading columns." Who, however, is to
he held accountable for the myriads of scurrilous squibs
by which tho little handbill is erowded he does not
apparently feel called upon to explain. Possibly, how-
ever, a man with a clump-soled boot and a blackthorn
stick will eventually solve this mystery. Here is a
clipping from that portion for which the high-souled
editor courageously fathers in a “leader”:—“There
the various descriptions of tea are tested with such
scrupulous care that, so far as Mes-rs. [somebody] are
concerned, no inferior article can find its way into the
market." Now for a sample of what he does not
father: —“ Sonny, the butcher from the Hollow, says he
likes the Box Tree girls, for there is some make about
them. . . . Stuttering Bob says he never thought it
would come to engine cleaning with him. Well, go
sheppherding (sic) with Charley. . . . Charley the
Batcher says Nancy Lee takes well at dance?, but the
Village Blacksmith goes better. . . . J , old
man, I hope you ham alwright. The advice I give you
is 10 keep out of the back premises of a certain
butcher’s shop, or you will likely become a resident of
Stacy’s Hotel, East Maitland. . . . Bridget, my
queemj, take care that you do not get frost bitten. You
know that the fellow who is constantly basking in your
sunny smiles sends a chill through the atmosphere of
the kitchen.” The portion of the “paper "this offen-
sive and senseless rubbish appears in is, says the editor,
“intended for the use of those who love a joke—a pure,
harmless joke." We expect to see an account of how
the editor’s efforts to encourage a taste for “pure ” and
“harmless” literature have been appreciated, at no dis-
tant date; and when we do, we will send along the raw-
beef and the arnica.
# * *
Singleton John Browne’s sonl is new marching
on, and many will long lament a good, honest, sterling
man. Peace to his shade!
The Evening News, however, cannot let even tho
dead rest, but speaking of tho funeral it goes right off
the track to tell us this;—“The coffin was placed in a
niche in the family vault, making the fourth now in the
vault—Mr. and Mrs. Browne and a son and daughter.
There are spaces for five more coffins in the vault Numbers
of persons descended aud inspected the vault at the close of
the obsequies, among whom were six sons of the deceased, and
some grandsons." This must have been extremely cheer-
ful for the six sons, who will in after years be somewhat
crowded. But surely the Noozb can find something
better to joke on than the shrines of the dead.
• « *
At one time the dailies teemed with paragraphs
to the effect that David M‘Beath was to be criminally
prosecuted by the Council, but eventually a civil action
was brought instead, with the honourable result already
known. Now, we hear, Messrs. Baker, Waddell, and
Matheson are to be criminally indicted for their con-
nection with the Milburn Creek business, and as a
sensational item tho par. reads very well indeed.
Doubtless, if that trial does come off, a good deal of
merriment will be caused by the evidence elicited, and
that will be, as everybody knows, the upshot of the
whole affair. That they have “ collared the scg." is
possible enough, but then tho awkward question arises
amongst prominent citizens—“ who hasn’t ?’* The
defendants can n ake their minds perfectly easy as to
the result. Juries now-a-days will find everything not
guilty, excepting a newspaper.
* • •
In Monday’s News there was a mad election
address to the “free and independent” of Argyls,
signed “John Agneau." The following is a passage
with which we were much impressed :—“ The only
questions of importance now before Parliament are the
Chinese and Licensing Bills : of these the former will
be settled before the day of election, and the latter
may also be considered as an accomplished fact. Both,
therefore, if I am now elected shall have my support.”
Until the table raps out a contradiction, for John
•Agneau we shall read Corbin. And now, sweet reader.
we will light a cigar while you go out to buy a French
dictions ry.
• • •
“Matrimony. —Two young ladies wish to cor-
respond with two gentlemen, of passable appearance;
photos., &c.. exchanged. Address Violet and May,
Post Office, Paddington.”— Lyre.
Speaking of traitors in the camp, the O’Donovan
Bossa lato’y observed .—‘‘Wherever you find twelve
apostles, there will always be one Pontius Pilate
amongst the number.” This was rough on poor old J.
P. Pontius, who, after all, was a victim cf circum.
stances, and it clearly shows Mr. Rossa’s Sunday School
education is beginning to leak a little.
• * •
“ We don’t fake T he Bulletin,” said a Coffee
Palace official in a loud tone the other day to a cus-
tomer who happened to ask for it. “There is not a
single copy in the place ” At these words, twenty
waitresses hands were clapped to the same number of
waitresses’ pockets, and a score of sighs of relief floated
upon the stew-scented air of the dining-room.
# # #
The Australian Sportsman is not dead, as
wo imagined. We came across a portion of a recent
number of it tbe other day, neatly rolled round some
slices of cold tongue at a water party, and we read
therein that the editor wondered why bicycling was not
as popular in Sydney as in Adelaide. As wo do not likv
to see alrother journalist (especially so distinguished
a ono)-m a state of perplcxdy, we will at once put him
in the way of solving the mystery. Let him buy—or
rather borrow— a two-wheeled steed, and drag it ud to
the top of Flagstaff. Church, or any of the numerous
Sydney Hills, and commence to ride down. Then his
“’ na , ’I 111 b ® Perfectly easy, and after the Infirmary
people have sewn up his scalp, amputated his left lei
and fitted him with a vulcanite nose and a pair of patent
body also. GWIII feelto!erabl * comfortable as to Ms
AN EMBRYO-ALDERMANIC GLEAMING.
This is how it ought to be,
t candidates, sings one of them—
J.P., Alderman, M.P.,
Resignation, and— P.M.
* ♦ ♦
This is the kind of thin*? the Wide Bat and
Burnett News (Maryborough, Q.) sa y 8 has proved of
great amusement to its readers J proved ol
“It is not through our wattles,
Ureat‘P,’your‘cannon rattles.'
Go, look through Rosehill's walls.
Nor say the joke is Hall’s,
Tis Wooroobooloo that prattles
Mcfram- Down from Wooroobooloo
Came a hulloobooloo ■
only big Greville,
W ho said, How the devil
Ho you do ? Oo, pooh! pooh.”
This being the case, we are seriously turning over in
onr minds the advisability of travelling up there
making our fortune. A learned pig and a waxwork Mt
purporting to represent the Twelve Apostles a™ to be
sold cheap in Sydney at the.-preslilt Tnl.La l go£d
t0 k u 0I> P la y in » 011 da 7 “Hold g the
Port with a hair-comb and curl-paper, wouldn’t run
out mnch money. If, however, a panting country should
be unable to spare us yet awhile, the “ stilts ” Ind the
Agxoscope” can take the hint, and go where glory
waius them. People who aro aroused at what we g have
out ofaTom e rTexp n iosion. ia “ Parth^ako “ d
* * m
Although servant girls have long been in reality
a power in the State, it is only of late that they have
been represented in New South Wales by a literary
From advertisement in Friday’s Lyre, wo
see, however, that in future our cooks and scnllery-
mnids will have a newspaper devoted to their immediate
interests in this city. Says the ad.: “ WANTED Ser-
vants to READ the BUDGET,” Ve have seen the
Budget in question, and find it is a penny sheet, just
about large enough to wrap half a pound of cheese in
(a purpose for which it will probably be much in request),
and from the peculiar tone of its contents, we should
say it was edited by a new-chum butler, and largely
contributed to by registry-office "wallflowers.” We
wish the spirited and enterprising proprietors all the
success their noble venture deserves; and if onr wishes
are realised, the Budget will be seen before long under
every kitchen dresser.
* * *
Says the Illustrated Alfred (now pictorial,
alas! no longer) : “ One or two very sensible alterations
were made in the Licensing Bible last night." We are
very glad to hear this, indeed. Our experience, both in
the Supreme and lower courts, inclines us to the opinion
that the licensing bible must have been in rather a queer
state for a long time past. We think the best way wou’d
be, in some cases, to do away with it altogether. Libel-
case jurymen and picnic policemen, for instance, should
be allowed to swear on something more congenial to
their truthful souls. “ Jack Sheppard," for example,
or “ The Adventures of Baron Munchausen." We shall
not make any claim on the Government for the sugges-
tion. On the contrary, if they adopt it, we shall be
happy to send along an English translation of Zola’s
“ L’Assommoir ” to start the next Bay Bacchante cham.
piou on his voyage to well, we’ll say heaven.
#,# # •
For nice little breezy after-dinner para commend
us to the "Brevities” in the Noozb. Let us cull an
aromatic bouquet from Friday’s issue:—“The residents
of Forest Lodge are considerately serenaded during
meal hours by the tuneful, but rather loud efforts of
certain night-carts. Tons of manure also pass daily."
That’s one floral gem. Here goes for an appropriate
border: —“ Residents of the Glenmore road are favoured
by early visits from the night carta. Such little atten-
tions on the part of the proprietors of these odoriferous
vehicles are, of course, much appreciated.” Lovely !
lovely! isn’t it ? But, for a centrepiece, what can beat
the following.-—“ The inhabitants of a certain hense in
Young-street, Eedfern, male a practice of throwing
the contents of ‘ chambers ’ out over the balcony in. Dig
street at bed-time. Last night ns I was coming h jo
I had a narrow escape from getting it on top of my
head, as it was it splashed on my clothes." All that
the “respectable” portion of our press now want is
a little “ chamber" music, to allow it to revel in the
aesthetic delights of asphodel leaves and faint lilies.
Alfred—you’re getting quite too utterly “ too too.”
Sweat off!
* • »
There were so many cases of indecent assault
last Sessions that a learned counsel remarked that any
one would think the growing population was brought
up, like canaries, on rape seed.
“Do yon know where the reporter of the
Penny Abt Journal is?” enquired a gentleman of a
waiter at a Botany picnic, the other day. "Heis in
the pavilion, sir,” was the reply. "But how shall I
know him ?*’ asked the gentleman. " Yon will know
him by his coat,” said the waiter.
* * *
We have received an appeal from an employe in
a Walgett store, requesting us to advocate " early clos-
ing ”in that thriving city. We do this cheerfully. We
went to Walgett once, when we were broken-hearted
and endeavoured under the soothing influence of rustic
glades to patch up a desperately The
balmy solitude of the place fixed us up in no time. We
used to walk up and down the place all day, and after
the first two hours we knew every feature in it. Our
experience is that the storekeepers might all of them* ..
close at 11 a.m. each day, without their business heirm /
materially affected thereby, and if the majority shut up ‘
altogether, they would save money. We remember a
baker there who ap eared to get his living by standing
outside his shop and staring at the chemist; while the
butcher, to all intents and purposes brought up a
numerous family by leaning against a post in front of
his shop and yawning at the blacksmith. The only live
thing in Walgett is a newspaper, but that won’t ex-
change with us any more now, because we detected the
hand of the bellman in a theatrical critique, and ‘ ‘nosed’’
the secret of the editor when the Mail came out with
only one news par., and handbill size. Walgett is a
very nice little place, and lively, too. Still the shops
could afford to close early, and the enployds might be
allowed! to play tip-cat in business hours without any
serious loss accruing to anybody. When a dog wants to
be quite undisturbed about noonday in Walgett, it al-
ways goes and lies down in the middle of the principal
street.
• « •
A close copy of the Game Bill:
1. Whereas—All birds are animals, and all animals
birds, therefore the wilful destruction of anything, from
a Parramatta 15 ft. snake down to a sandhill flea, shall
be deemed a misdemeanor.
2, Whereas—No firearms, clothes-props, bricks, Gat-
ling guns, flat-irons, or any other weapons of domestic
use shall be used for the purpose of shooting any
scheduled bird having a greater length of barrel than six
feet and a greater bore than seven inches or the junior
member for Mudgee.
_3. Whereas —The practice of blowing the scheduled
bird to blazes is an offence against Our Sovereign Lady’s
express will and sanction, and therefore no person shall
hereafter bo allowed to blaze into the scheduled bird
with more than one keg of powder and half a ton of shot
at one and the same time or thereabouts.
4 Whereas—That any person haring reasonable sus-
picion that the above clause is being violated be em-
powered to stand in front of the said charge, and after it
is fired that he she or it be also empowered to bring the
same charge away and place it before two Justices of the
Peace or any other old wemen he may happen to tumble
over.
5. Whereas—That the practice of taking the eggs of
the scheduled bird out of the nest, sacking them dry,
and then filling them with dynamite just to see the
scheduled bird "scattered," is reprehensible to the 77th
May and Violet wast to marry : —
Here’s a splendid chance for “ 'Arry 1”
Two “ young ladies ” in full bloom—
Nothing said about the broom ;
Nothing, we should rather think.
Hazarded about the sink ;
Nothing (also “gospel" this is !)
Breathed about the “ horrid missis."
No more Sal and Susan they —
Dear no! “Violet and May.”
Quickly send now—do not tarry !—
Get the fair ones’ pictures, 'Arry.
Mark when your gaze o’er them shoots.
Those time-honoured “ lasting” hoots.
Pin-skeinei o’er each form divine,
Mark those shawls (at four-and-nine).
Mark each bulgy ill-shaped pocket;
Mark each “ tin-pot ” silver locket.
Mirk those gloves—" fourteens " the size,—
Mark those “gowns,” all hooks and eyes;
Mark those faces, flat and florid.
Soap and jack-tow’l shining—horrid!
Mark this, and you’ll get, we bet.
The “hang” of “May and Violet,"
A BAY BACCHANTE.
THE BALLAD OF ETHELINDA.
Dedicated to that noble, that patriotic, that conscien*
tious and long suffering ornament to civilization—
The Picnic Policeman.
“ Bacchantes, the priestesses of Bacchus who
are represented at the celebration of the orgies almost
naked with . . . dishevelled hair. Their looks are
wild, and they utter dreadful sounds. . . "—Lkm-
prieee's Dictionary, page 123.
Done is the mad and sensual whirl.
And then upon the sward does pant.
With hair dishevelled, a young girl
The true type of a “ Bay Bacchante."
Flushed in the face—the crimson in
Each cheek bespeaks the swallowed gin ;
And in'her eyes there gleams a fire—
The beacon of a mad desire;
Her breath is ho,t herjlips are pale.
But on them is a thick dark trail:
’Tie dust congealed by breezy air.
And left all day to blacken there i
Her tawdry dress skin-tight is worn.
And at the bosom it is torn.
Revealing to the gen’ral view
Some linen that is ragged, too.
Burst are her boots, and just suppose
A world of dusky, yawning hose.
That, as she round the lawn does oy,
Is thrust upon the startled eye I
The shapeless hat of that weird lass
Is decked with ornaments of brass ;
And looking very closely, you
IV ill see a bit of feather, too; —
The remnant of a shilling plume j
The rest is in the dancing-room,
The hat bedecking of some bosr
Who reels about the dusky floor.
Now suddenly the girl does rise.
When, bang! go half her “ hooks and eyes."
At this the drunken Goths all joke.
While she is pinn’d up by her “ bloke,”
A shrivelled boy alt dust and grime,
Th’ embodiment of sinking crime 1
Ones more the music sounds, and she.
Well primed by drink for revelry,
Does with demoniac yell advance.
And plunges headlong in the dance.
Fast is the band, but faster still
Her partner whirls her round at will.
No w mark those hot, perspiring charms
Reclining in that hoodlum’s arms!
That lewd kiss note (for it is such).
That shameless laugh and brazen clutch'
Mark all these things the public may—
But pTicemen—turn your heads away.
James Montmorency Bilking was
A snudy-whiskered feller;
In private life a soulful bard,
la public a hank-toller.
lie yearned to loro ; dreamed night and day,
E’en when the changes ringing.
Of something he should some day love,
A soul both limp and clinging.
But years flew on, and Bilkins aged.
Though yet both hale and hearty ;
And somehow things turned out so queer.
Ho never “ struck ’’ the party.
At length, last week, while wand’riug in
The neighb’rood of St. Peter’s,
Athwart a paling fence he saw.
The loveliest of oreeters.
Her face was pale, her eyes were blue.
Her hair the gold of summer ;
Her form was lithe and supple, she
Was what is called a “nummer."
He looked, she gazed; their four eyes mot.
Moaned she, “ I have no father;
Say, wilt thou bo my knight and love?”
Quoth Bilkins: “ Yes, miss—rather 1”
•• ’Tis well—now go—next morn return,”
The maiden fair did mutter.
Then, gliding off, ho heard her say—
“ Ta ta —whoop ! —skip the guttah.”
Next day, he did propose a gift
In terms most allegoric;
“ Bring me,” said she, *' a chaff-machine.
And pills and paregoric."
Ha marvelled muchly o’er the maid.
Yet softer grew his bosom;
'Tis ever so with oldish men.
When pretty girls they woo 'cm.
She told him that her heart was his.
And her soul breathed rebellion
Agamst an aunt, who locked her up
To grab her dow’r—a million.
“ Say will thine arm release me, James ?
If so—thine, ev'ry shilling I”
In quavTing tones he did reply—
“ You bet your life, I’m willing.”
When came the gloaming, in a cab
Bold Bilkins sat and waited ;
When to him came a seedy roan.
Who gruffly those words stated:—
“ Clear out of this, now, double-quick.
They cops it vot wo cotches,” 9
And hero he trifled with a stick
All over nobs and notches.
“ Dread man,” James cried, “ I prithee, now
My plan to wed don’t hinder;
This night to other climes we fly—
Myself and Etheliuda.” „
“ Eth’liuda!” quoth the seedy man,
“ D’ye mean the yellow topper P”
“ I do,” cried Bilkins, “ and I hold
The ring and all that’s proper,"
Loud laughed the man until he got
The crimsonost of faces:
“ What, softy, don’t ye know,” ho cried,
“ What this pertickler place is ?
“ This is a ’sylum, where your gal
Is coopered up with others.
Per arsenio-ing her father, and
A axe-ing all her brothers.”
CAPTAIN W. ADAMS, OF THE COONANBARRA (s.).


degree ( vide Vic. 2, cap. 4, long metre); and that no
perfon shall kill, or take, or nse any gun, dog, or any
other engine against the scheduled bird, unless the said
bird has been previously outlawed, or convicted of
beinga common Town Hall contractor, a picnic juryman,
or a cheap undertaker.
6. And in all cases the penalties shall, bo 17 years
in Berrima Gaol for the first offence, and a 10s. fine for
the s.cond.
„„ , Vivat Regina.
N.B.—Highest price paid for rags.
• • •
At Carcoar Campbell got tho “ ehow of hands,”
and when old Ezekiel saw this he grinned from eor to
car. “ What are you laughing at, old son ?” asked a
miner. “ They’re only showing their hands to conceal
their cards,” chuckled tho old nn. Virtuous indig.
nation in public is a good sign. The reaction will set in
at the ballot-box,
. Such ia our confidence in the purity of mind,
singleness of heart, and political integrity of tho free
and independent electors of Carcoar, that we give as
our election tip—Baker first, and Campbell nowhere.
• * •
It was in a fashionable suburb, and the drawing-
room was separated by folding-doers. On one side was
waiting a lady visitor for an audience, while on the
other was tho mistress of the house, to whom her
presence had been a few minutes before announced.
Desirous of producing an effect, the latter rang a bell
violently, and on tho servant making her appearance
said, so as to be overheard, “Jane, tell Johnson that
I’ll take tho brougham to-dny instead of the ‘Victoria,’
as it looks something like rain.” “ Very well, ma’am.”
Then stopping: “But which am I to do first, ma’am;
run round to the stable, or go out for that pint ? ” A
moment’s notica and a week’s wages.
* # *
There was a grand banquet at Narrabri recently.
The late changes in the department of justice at that
place appear to have given great satisfaction. A
former Chauman of Quarter Sessions performed his
duties for some years so well that he was rewarded for
his services by being turned out of office ; and on the
second visit of his successor to Narrabri, popular
enthusiasm rose so high that proper expression could
only be given to it by inviting the Judge, the Crown
Prosecutor, and the Bar (consisting of one) to a grand
pnblio banquet. It was a superb
rttaf. m a local hotel, at 8
o clock, and when the company
had all taken seats, it was calcu-
late! that, ineluding the chair-
min and the three guests, there
must have been at least 8 or 9
parsons present. The waiter and
the ostler stood respectfully in
the background, ready to wait
on the guests. They would have
removed the covers, had there
baen any, but there were not.
i!.U epaBti was sumptuously
“jptfoent plate
* tl “ t well-known p ittern of
our boyhood I), and beneath was
a gorgeous candelabrum pendant
from the ceiling, composed of a
cask-hoop, with four tin-silver
Bonces, each holding a dip.
The menu was of the most
rekerlMy character, and included
log of mutton boiled (not
enough), reposing i n sweet inno-
’’®dof turmuts: ditto,
boiled (too much); roast beef,
"P 11 bubbling beauty
♦WvJ® I .? s , 010lI s cabbageo from
,° S i tlal garden3 l a Pair of
shorn h 1 5?° sterB - batched out
. aft ® r Captain Cook
landed at Botany; and other
delicacies. Altogether, the
down S fo Bai h thoy bad never sat
down to a banquet anything like
tLf ?h 6, Kn* bad not been
that the ••Court” and the
wore called away to
a ( ?i Se that had been loft
pending, it would have been al-
most impossible to get them
? ayat fuK They will neVßr
banket. gn,nd public
• * #
The Cumberland Fer-
Guson. in a fanciful tip for the
• Ministry, gives—” Medical
adviser to the Government, Dr.
Van Ilcekeren ” This piece of
S all8 >“ audacifc y is only
another instance of how a peace-
ful, law-abiding, and virtuous
citizen may be lampooned by
writers who have no jnstsonso
i ® v m S ral ro 'Pcnsibilities.
n Ck 7^ I e s gy di <ln’t dub the
worthy Doctor Minister for
Mines. Injured virtue would
have necessarily demanded blood
or damages for that outrage.
• • »
the Opera House
« d thQ Gaiety Tlieatres on
and were sorry to
find that the audiences in both
. were amongst the
smallest we have ever seen with-
in the walls cf a Sydney theatre;
3®P ar ® e attendance of the
public being, doubtless, due to
if® opposition offered by
«< -p .• roils > an< i by the new opera
in fn!f n m e at the ®°yal. Yet
in the Tblegeath of Tuesday,
mocwi l “ s follows Mr. Dimpier repeated his
i„,:' erly ,. lnter P reta ti°n of ‘Louis XI, * before a very
Fonf’if' , D* ence Gafofy Theatre last night.—* The
s Eevenge’ attracted a large and appreciative
Tuln+ ellco foff* o Opera H6uselast night." The man who
Bo i wou W be likely to insist that the Theatre
Z.I- orchestra is conducted by two Giorzas, and to
multiply the melancholy Dane in Shakespeare’s
?“?terpiece by four-and-twenty. After all, however,
only carrying out the precepts of his Old Testa-
ment, which in more than one place bids man with a
c heerful generality to "increase and multiply.”
*, * *
The Young Men’s Christian Association has at
length become alive to the fact that it is possible to
combine godliness and manliness, find to preserve a
sufficiently heavenly condition of mind in a healthy and
athletic body. This was at one timo, and by a certain
class of persons, scarcely thought practicable. Deve-
lopment of bicops was looked upon as a sure indication
of a decline of moral force. Sinew and sin were held to
bo very closely allied, and increased -power in the
flexors and extensors, though giving aditional advantage
in physical conflicts, was considered a dreadful handi-
cap in spiritual ones. But all this is about to be
changed. A gymnasium is to form a very important
feature in the new buildings to be erected by the
Y.M.C.A., and all worldly-minded gymnasts and man-
mon-worshipping young athletes will have to look to
their laurels in the physical contests of the future.
Fingers, hitherto dexterous in little else beside dog’s-
earing hymn books and testaments, and pointing scorn-
fully at the ungodly, will soon be better employed in
assisting their owners to shin up forty-foot poles with
treacherously slippery surfaces, or to remain suspended
at dizzy altitudes between their actual earthly and
their coveted heavenly homes—like Mahomet’?
coffin. Certainly, trapeze business ought to be the
best possible practice for embryo cherubim, and
should make flying, with the additional assistance of a
pair of wings, easier than that proverbially easy feat
in elementary gymnastics, “tumbling out of bed."
All this is very pleasant to think about, and none will
rejoice more heartily than ourselves when both the
prize essay on Faith and the championship in the 100
yards race in sacks, or with wheelbarrows blindfold,
shall be successfully negotiated by some enterprising
young gospel-sharp. The contemplation of this theme
makes us feel happy, and thirsty, and if the loose coin
in the petty cash-box would only run a sufficient supply
of "tangle-foot," we should never grow weary of
showing how harmoniously the study of the Bible and
the cultivation of biceps can be carried on together.
Assuredly, a new era is dawning for the pale, over-
worked theological stndent, and muscular Christianity
will soon be something more than an undeveloped
theory. Dumb-bells and prayer are perfectly com-
patible, and a 101 b. dumb-bell on a tender big toe will be
found to afford admirable rcope for the practice of the
virtue of resignation. Revelation will be pleasantly
varied by revolution (on tho horizontal bar). Vaulting
theological ambition will be stimulated by exercises on
the “ yaulting-horso; ” and Chronicles and calisthenics.
Genesis and gymnastics, will form a happy combination
which cannot fail to fill the hearts of youthful male
Christians with joy, and the palms of their hands with
blisters.
» * »
They were going sailing, and the day was a bit
puffy. “Wo want, Mr. Sauffkins,” said she to the
boatman, “to take something with ns in the ballast
line, that it won’t be any loss to throw overboard in
case we don’t want it. What is the best heavy thing to
take ?” The man of boats considered for a few
moments, then he said, “ A copy of tho Herald.
BRIEF MENTION.
A true humourist —The Parliamentary draughts-
man.
A Melbourne bookmaker has christened his
cottage at South Yarra “ Hades.”
At Gladstone, N.Q , the local sexton advertises:
“ All those requiring graves to make early application,”
&c.
It won’t be any good asking tho time of the hon.
member for Camden, until the arrival of tho next
Orient boat,
“ Aren’t they getting aesthetic ?” the English
papers will say; “they won’t have a glue factory at
Botany Bay.”
A certain Northern district editor was last week
nearly drowned —in one foot of water. Anyone can see
what this means.
A Coonamblo correspondent writes, requesting
us to ask the Minister for Justice whether it is proper
—in a case, say, whore two drovers are charged by a
squatter with not giving proper notice —for the son-in-
law of said squatter to oocujiy a seat on tho bench
which fines defendants £2O.
The Kiama Independent wants “ a boy to
milk and drive bullocks.” Wo’ll get some of “ them
bullocks for the sake of the cream.”
The small-pox is spreading—so wo hear nothing
of On Chong’s claim for compensation. We’re ready for
him, Kum On, On Chong! On Chong, KumOnl How’s
that for Chinese ?
The answer to the conundrum runs along in this
wise:—‘‘Because one is a C.M.Gr., whilst the other is
merely an L.A.G.” Will any of our readers who hold
the first part of the above kindly send it along—and pay
the postage.
In a city billiard-room a printed announcement,
signed by the manager of the concern, states: “ Betting,
swearing, and vulgar language, is prohibited,” &c. The
man who runs the affair evidently doesn’t think that
bad grammar is vulgar.
Spiritualistic seances are just now the great
attraction at Hobart. One enthusiast runs them
weekly with much success. The gas is turned out and
the spirits are turned on; and they pinch the girls—but
it's against the rales to scream.
Thus the Cooktown Herald : “ The Weather.
The gates of Heaven were opened last night, and the
glorious rain fell on bankers and defaulters. We are
all 'grateful to tho Providence who requires neither
long-tailed blacks nor white kids.”
A certain township down South throws out the
hint that it intends for the future to select its aldermou
from tho ranks of discharged prisoners. By Jove !
now that we think it over, the proposition wasn’t half
as bad as at first we thought it was.
There is a common complaint amongst metro-
politan clergymen that they are overworked. How-
ever, some of their parishioners are of opinion that if
the “cloth ” let alone newspaper jobbery it would have
more time to chase erring souls and draw a saw-handled
hair-trigger on Satan.
The Maitland people are firm believers in half-
holidays. A cricket match, a flower show, a bun scuffle,
or oven a barrel-organ is quite sufficient to awaken in
their breasts a noble desire for freedom. They now
propose to close shops altogether on Friday. The
Bulletin arrives on that day.
But two short years have passed since a well-
known journalist went on the reporting staff of the
Morning Gasper. He then weighed 14st. 21b., and
Pharoah’s (at kine were not a patch on him for sleek
and colossal beauty. To-day, however, when he wants
to feel his back bone ho simply mbs his epigastrium.
And why ia i‘ ?
Last week, four boys employed at the office of
tho Buxgxcar Banner were each sentenced to three
days’ solitary confinement for pulling down shutters,
&o , at 2 a m., as they wended their way to post the
night’s issue. It was lucky that they were not
“shopped” on Monday, as the paper publishes on
Tuesday and Friday.
A trip to Manly is one of the things that makes
life worth living, and tho oeoan beach is in itself a
promenade unequalled south of the line. But the fact
that the people who boss the drains have thought
proper to mu a into the sea, right in the middle
of the lovely beach, can only be explained by the fact
that Manly is so near Sydney Town Hall.
The people of Junee trust for their water supply
to a small well at the back of tha railway refreshment
rooms. Sometimes this well is filled by the rain-clouds,
and sometimes by the railway jokers, who cart their
supplies in barrows. By and bye, Junoo will hold as
nice a pile of pustules as one could wish to see, and then
people will jump up and wonder how on earth small-pox
got there.
A contemporary regards bill-posting “ a sign of
intellectual progress.” We have not hitherto regarded
parti-coloured announcements of coming circuses, hair
regenerators, blood purifiers, and cockroach-extermi-
nators as literature exactly—certainly not as literature
of tho most classical type, though sometimes printed in
the largest. W j shall road them with breathless interest
in future.
It is fun to ba vaccinated in China. Tho opera-
tion is not done there, as here, in the arm or in tho leg.
It is done in the nose. This is not the only tickle,
however. Yaecination is not compulsory, but as a
means of bringing children to tha front tho authorities
offer a prize of sixpence. It is when the vaccination
time comes round that the average male Chinaman re-
grets that he did not marry earlier.
Eeferring to the theory advanced by the eminent
French anthropologist, M. Dalannay, to the effect that
woman is only undeveloped man, and that the pre-
eminence of the maid over the-female sex being met
with only among certain inferior species of races, and
among tho children of superior races, marks a lower
degree of evolution. The Express shrieks: “ What are
we coming to ? Why will men frame such absurd
theories, and try to subvert Christianity ? As God is
no respecter of persons, so the two sexes aro absolutely
and entirely equal in his eyes.” This may be’good
piety, but it’s bad logic. We hope that this is one of
the para, for which Hr. Vaughan isn’t responsible.
When tho Minister for Lands gets that aris-
tocratic complaint, the gout—and we are sorry to notice
that he often does get it—he draws his official screw of
£125 per month all the same. But when a poor devil of
a Lands office clerk, with 10s a day and a big family,
breaks his leg, the gouty Minister won’t extend his
leave without docking his salary. Ministers and clerk?
you know, are made of such different clay.
At 4 p m. on Tuesday last a party by the name
of Thornburg was found hanging to a Melbourne lamp,
post, and on being released ho explained that as the
world was to coma to an end next week, ho wanted to
get a good start for the front seats. This all comes of
reading the Nooze. Leonardo Shipton prophesied for
the 15th November, but that was 400 years ago, t.nd
consequently tho proper date is* the 27th. Pitt-stroet
nad better “ let up ” on prophecies •
Thus the Towers Herald :—“ Mr. , who
appeared some time ago on the Towers as a magician,
is now on the Etheridge, and in addition to amusing
the public by his feats as a prestidigitateur, advertises
that he may be ‘ consulted daily on all diseases at Mr.
Assay Office; advice gratis.’ We don’t generally
do printing for nothing, but we got just as much out of
Mr. for the printing wo did for him as he charges
his patients for advice. This information is also gratis."
For ways that are dark,” etc. The latest
Mongolian atrocity was committed by Ah Tin, at
Braidwood, in the interests of science. He drowned a
cat, and attempted to enro defective sight by swallow
ing its eyes, but was fortunately choked in the endea-
vour, Genius of this very pronounced kind wants somo
sort of check, like asphyxia. The name of the Chinese
oculist who suggested this remedy for cataract has not
been disclosed. It’s nearly time wo had that Chinese
Bill.
Speaking of a certain metropolitan musical
society, tho News says, “ The fact that tho society has
existed for 14 years, aid ia still prosperous, is very
creditable to the tastes of the members.” It seems to
us, however, that a society* which has been 11 years in
existence should be capable of giving something better
than a ballad concert, in which the unison choruses of
Be'lini and the maudlin inanities of Claribel constitute
the principal features. They do those things better in
Melbourne. Our “Liedertafel” friends, for instance.
The other day in a Southern town a certain
J.P., who, if his local reputation be correct, might
have made his fortune by writing works of fiction,
created some amusement by exclaiming, with
much solemnity, after the hearing of an interesting
case in which there seemed a likelihood'of a man boimr
sent to gaol, “ Thera is somo great liar in this Court !”
Everyone looked at his neighbour, and then turned his
optics admiringly upon tho candid oracle, while one of
the audience had tho temerity to utter, for tho benefit of
his immediate circle, “hear, hear!”
Many people ask : “ What the Satan are those
fallows doing at tho corners of onr tram-line streets
with sixpenny red handkerchiefs tied to tho ends of
cricket stumps ?” Wo have to inform them that these
men are stationed at their different posts solely for tho
pro'eetioß of life and limb. For instance, when a train
ii scooting along duo N. and S., and a patent safety is
endeavouring to cross the track at the same time, the
man at the corner waves his flag three times, and the
cabby then takes a “header.” If he crosses safe’y tho
man with tho rag calls out, “ all right;’’ but if the
motor bangs the cab amidships, and knocks tho lot into
sausage meat, the rag man merely observes, “ Good
Gawd I” and there the matter endeth.
There is a Maitland amateur who is studying
tho part of Othello, and, when he has a rehearsal be-
fore his f iraily, ho is such an enthusiast that he blacks
himself all over. Since this, his washerwoman has
struck, and now when, ho wants to come out in clean
linen, he has to hire a sailing-boat and tow his stock for
a couple of hours over the side. When be ia coming
down the street, tho whole town smells like a soa-
breeze, and when he takes off his coat in a billiarl-
room, the air becomes so im-
pregnated with salt that nothing
is heard but a continuous roar
for long beers. The first per-
formance will probably be given
in Sydney, with Mr. D. as
lago.
A pawnbroker at the Glebe
has been robbed by his nephew.
This is a cose of going for one’s
“uncle” with a vengeance.
An active volcano in Tas-
mania was the discovery of tho
Melbourne Age last week.
This is the age of invention.
Dan O’Connor says John
Young* is “ the Nestor of Austra-
lian contractors.” “Wrecker’s”
opinion is that tho majority of
Sydney’s City Fathers might
not inappropriately ho called
“ Frather their Nest-ors.”
One of tho latest tricks
upon charitable persons is that
with tho wedding-ring. A well
dressed, handsome wemnn calls
at a house, and tells n sorrowful
talc of a dead husband, and dire
distress, which alone, could
compel her to part with her
ring. It is rolid gold, fro.,
worth four p ounds, but the will
pari with it for a pound, nnd
tho widow passes sadly on to the
next house with a similar one.
The prefits arc about, nineteen
shillings on each sorrowful
operation.
Mr. John Hermiker has
cmichcd (ho city by the present
of an oil-painting, and he coir-
mcncos his letter to Mr. C. J.
Roberta thus:—“Hotel Conti-
rental, 3 Eno Castiglione,Paris,
August 18, 1881 Alderman C.
J. Roberts, Esq.” (sic). If tl o
style of tho picture ia only half
as originalas thatof Mr. Heaton’s
letter-writing, tho portrait of
Lord Sydney will bo an
artistic acquisition, indeed. The
ceremony of presentation at
Chats worth war, we hear, a very
impressive one, and tho speeches
—particularly those of the press-
men—would seem to have been
exceptionably brilliant. Tho
effort on part of the Eyunnooze
representative was justly re-
garded as a masterpiece of
eloquence. Altogether the pro-
ceedings furnished materials for
a splendid page in the history of
the colony, and constituted a
magnificent advertisement for
the “£6 case.”
The other day, an Endea-
vour River black, with only a
white bell-topper on, swam over
to Cooktown, and suddenly ap-
peared before a' new-chnru ser-
vant who was sweeping the bar
of an hotel. She had been
brought up in a select school.
and gazed upon the ebon form of the Forest King with
languid eyes. “What you tink a’ me—ha ?” said the
monarch. “ The impression on my mind, which a mere
casual glance at yon engenders, is that you have somo
Moorish blood in your veins,” was the reply. And she
went on demurely with her sweeping, while King Bobby
slunk slowly out into the street. She is now married
to- but perhaps we had better not ga into that.
A well-known squatter, second only to tho
famous Tyson in point of worldly possessions, and
living a hundred miles or so from Tirana, was asked
lately for a side of mutton by a bullock-driver, who
having no “ready,” requested him to Ist it stand’
Squatter said he couldn’t see it. Bullocky : “ Well I
had to buy two axes in Tirana, and that cleaned me out.
I’ll leave one of them with yon till I come back, if you
like.” Squatter (abruptly): “ Can’t you leave the
two?” And so poor Bullocky had to leave the two
(valuo 175.), or go without tho mutton, worth at the
outside 3s. fid.
Wilson’s Circus is evidently having a demora-
lising effect on the venerable steeds of our “cemetery
enlargers,” as we are told that on rounding the District
Court to College-street, the buggy-horse of a certain
well-known Alsenlapius “ made an attempt to jumn
over the 9ft. iron palings surrounding Hyde Park the
consequence being that the shafts were smashed! the
horse fell, two of the iron palisades an inch thick wem
bent, and part of the masonry of the wall was broken ”
Ifae next thing we expect to hear is that Mr. Snell
jumped one of Harrison’s two-horsa cars over the roof
of the opposition tram-cars.
At Armidalo, the other day, two Germans Quar-
reled. Schanpp summoned Appel for assault, and hv
way of cross-case Mrs. Appel sworo an information
against Schanpp for threatening language, and Apnalied
to have him bound over to keep the peace. When (ho
case came on for hearing, the clerk of the court said
.< Appe] ’ Bta J e your caso ” She Put it thus-
Veil, Schanpp coomed to mein house last Sunday and
asked for de gun and said ‘lf you don’t gifo it do me
1 V ll br , oa 1 k mdodo house. I vant to plo mein prainea
out, nnd den mem ghost vill haunt yon all voui* »•*
“But,” interposed the clerk, “how did ho threaten
yo ?n n S . e^ d v is ghost *” was the answer. And
as the Bench didn’t believe m ghosts, they couldn’t bin,’
Schanpp over. uiuc *
Fiji raus tbe a nice place to live. Almos+ as
as Russia, or Now South Wales, for any man whoW™
a newspaper The proprietor of the Fiji Times
lately charged with contempt of the Supreme Court
a charge which most men regarded as ridiculous Dm
COMPENSATION!
AT MANLY.
He loved her, and 10, on his knees,
He ’poa the verdant moss is;
And tweaked by the chill morning breeze
Ij his immense proboscis.
“ Ton have my heart, my fortune take!”
• Ho cried, in love’s strong throes.
“ I’ll all your fortune clutsh.” she spake,
“ But only half that nose .”
The Maitland Mercury, we’ro told.
Intends to make a venture bold,
By shortly publishing—that is.
By Christmas-time—a book called “ Fizz I”
But Fizz may be, denial's vain.
Mere ginger-be;-r or real champagne.
The one is good, as taste will show.
The other's only froth, you know.
Dear Mercury, we long to see
Which of these kinds your “ Fizz” will be.


RILEY BRG
386 GEORGE STREET,}
600 GEORGE STREET, >
165 OXFORD STREET, J
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
• NEW
ASD
10 COLEMAN STREE
THE CHEAPEST
IS THE
AUSTRALIAN CO
THE OEIG NATOI
NOTED £5 B
£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
Blankets
1W hite or Coloured Q ailt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
10 yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Bed
Fianncl
13 yards Wincey, Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
3 pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2J yards Gamlroom for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 largo size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair Strong Tweed or
Molefkin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s
or Child’s Boots
1 Belt or pair of Braces
\ doz. Pocket’korchiefa
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
tons, Buttons, Hooks
and Eyes, &c. &o.
Me
2 Li
2 L
!C
1 pa
1 La
2 pa
1 Le
4 In
2 Id
2 In
1 In
I
2 Tu
II.!
* dc
S
Pull
1 Ph
2 Bi
1 pa:
1 Ini
11 Ii
S
. %
I
£E
1 pai
1 lar
10 yai
2) yai
12 Sti
20 Wi
10 go<
6 yai
A
wear!
£5 Men’s Clothing £5
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, large
size
1 best Pelt Hat, any size
6 pair strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies' Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
8 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The above are made of
good longcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
1 pai
1 wb
5 yai
10 wh
Ci
6 wh
12 yai
12 yai
4 pai
1 pai
1 Da
6 stn
6 Bn
4 lar;
3 yar
T
T 1
£5 1
25 yds
3 yar
1 doz
1 Bla
1 Lac
1 Tri
1 pai
RILEY BROTI
£2 Infant’s Parcel. £2 ]
4 Infants’ Shirks 6
2 Infants’ Night-gowns i Han«
2 Infants’ Long Flannels x, o ni
1 Haircord Monthly Gown r i c h]
2 Infants’ Boilers 1 Infai
i Cozen Diaper Squares Sous
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder silk"
1 Flannel Head Square j i Q f ai
2 Bibs (jqik
1 Pair of Wool Boots Q ar
Carriage free by Kail
or Steamer.
£2 Stockman’s £2 '
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers 2 Nigl
1 Cnm... Sh,Vf o nu™
ing the hearing of the case, a statement, w«» made by a
witness which excited smiles from persons present;
whereupon that much-belovcd autocrat, “ His Lord-
ship," Sir John Gorrio, roared out, “ Mr. Sheriff, I see
a man laughing in the court. If he does so again, turn
him out I refer to Mr. Parr. Keep your eye on him."
Sheriffs may have enrioas duties to perform sometimes,
bnt the task of watching a man to see that he doesn’t
smile must certainly take the palm for novelty. It’s a
serious thing to laugh in Fiji.
A stabber. Police intelligence—none.
Fred Gannon was asked to stand for Newtown.
He refused in these terms: “Wo can’t both afford to
be ornameutal."
“ If Mr. Baker doesn’t know what this elector-
ate wants," said one of the Cwcoar “free and inde-
pendent,” at a meeting last Friday, “no one does."
Hear, hear 1
A man quite naked, with the exception of a
small gnemsoy. was captured in Kent-street the other
day. When asked to account for his bare condition, ho
said it took such a lot to interview members of Par-
liameut.
There will boa cause celbbre shortly. The salt
water they lay the dust with puts a thick coating of
rust on to all steel and iron goo I’s; and the man who
sells the dog-chains in the markets is about to bring an
action against tho Corporation.
“ I’m very sorry, sir,” said the landlady of a
boarding-honso to a member of Parliament who was
lodging there, “ but no water can be got to run in the
bath Ibis morning.” “That is not of the slightest
consequence,” said the member of Parliament.
An elegant cad, who insulted a gentleman’s
sister during her brother’s temporary absence in the
Gardens, tho other day, on having his coat torn off his
back during the flagellation that ensued, was found only
to l>o wearing underdinen consisting of a pair of cuffs
and a dickey.
There is a youth at Manly who has evidently
more clothes than sente. On Sunday mornings he goes
to the Pier, gives a loud yell, and “falls" into the
water, to the great delight of various nurse-girls, and
the still greater annoyance of those who happen to bo
fishing. However, all hone has not [yet fled. Ihore
are still 16-foot sharks in Port Jackson,
“ What are your views?” said an elector to a
candidate for municipal honours, the other night. “ I
will, toll you them prinately," hoarsely whispered the
candidate. “ All right," t aid the other, with a wink ;
“let your policy be honest and straightforward, and
above all things don’t forget tho new reflector corpora-
tion lamp that’s to be built outside my stable."
There was a match one day last week in the
eat most oranges in a given time. It afforded great
nmusement to ail concerned, and enabled a free selector
who was waiting in the passage to review in quietness
tho whole of his past career, map out his plans for the
future, eat five largo sandwiches, read the whole of tho
K.M. Herald, and go out three separate times for a
drink.
Says Thursday’s Nooze “ Complaints about
the dally tolling of tho bell of St. Andrew’s Cathedral
are still rife. We are informed that ‘ the tintintuatula-
tion of tho bells’ is a great nuisance to both masters and
pupils of tho Lyceum School." Now, what the Bell does
Affrcd moan by this ? If ho wanted to drive a long-
suffering public totally mad, why didn’t he print more
photos., or more music. It, however, ho merely wished
to give ns a iittle information, why didn’t he set tho par.
up in Welsh, or got Ga Chong to fix it ? But it ha
wanted the concern to "take well,” why didn’t ho call
st/'tiutiPcintintantantantantutiltatilabilabilaliulation?"
Of course, it would bung up tho t case, bub when a
quart of beer can be scooped for 3d., a little stammer-
ing must be expected, even in print.
Tom Garrett must have heard of President Abe
Lincoln, who used to tell this story :—“ln a Western
State I was once engaged to defend a client charged
with stealing pigs. The evidence for the prosecution
was so conclusive ns to the prisoner’s guilt that I had
not the slighted hope of getting him clear, end told
him my opinion. His answer was: * Never you mind
the evidence. Go in, spread yourself on general prin-
ciples, and abuse the witnesses like the devil.’ I did,
and tho prisoner was acquitted. After the trial I
expressed my surprise, to which my client replied :
‘Look hero, every one of them cro jurymen had
a piece of them hogs.’" Tom abused all the witnesses
and everybody on the opposite side like the devil, and
was, we suppose, acquitted; hat there the analogy ends.
Harris, late accountant of the N.S.W. Lauda
Department, has been remanded on a charge of embez-
zling a cheque for £lO. With reference to this matter,
wo notice that tho Herald, in its report of the case,
olcomargariniees thus;—" This is only one of several
charges that will ho preferred against Harris. There
has been great promptitude displayed in reference to
this matter. The moment tho Under-Sccretary for
Lands suspected Harris he communicated with the
Inspector General of Police, and obtained the services
of a detective to watch Harris’s movements, in order to
prevent any possibility of his absconding, and ho was
kept constantly under surveillance,” etc. Now all
this, especially in tho lending journal, reads very
prettily. But there are a lot of people who remember
the “great promptitude” with which the genial
Minister for Lands dealt with Mr. W. W. Stephen, tho
lata Under-Secretary, when young Evans defalcated,
and they are howling to know whether there is to be a
full and public enquiry into tho circumstances attend-
ant on each of Harris’s peculations. There are some
people mean enough to insinuate that there has been
a lot of departmental carelessness in this matter, too ;
besides which.it is asserted that tho heads of the de-
partment would not care about a history of Harris’s pro-
motion over thoheads of certain of his seniors becoming
public property. It is understood that Harris himself
attributes his rapid advancement in tho service (he is
an officer of but three or four years’ standing) to the
fact that he is a man of colour —“ had he been a white
man Mr. Hoskins would have taken no notice of him.”
It is stated that the defaulter comes from the land of
Hannibal —Carthag.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
President Garfield died a freethinker, and de-
clined to receive a clergyman at his death-bod.
Dr. Doans, la<o the popular surgeon of the
E.M.S. Australia, has commenced the practice of hia
profession at Tumut.
“ Rolf Boldrewood ” contributes “ A Spring
Sketch” to the current number of the Australasian.
“ Kelt” lives at Dubbo.
Mr. Hays, of the well-known Townsville firm of
Hays and Bundock, leaves the North in December. He
intends settling in England.
Mr. Wright, of the Northern Standard,
Townsville, died on Saturday, the 19th, of consumption.
He had been ill for several months.
In his libel action against the London Referee,
Clement Scott, dramatic critic of the London Daily
Telegeavh, obtained a verdict for £l5OO damages.
Sir Samuel Wilson has begun his election cam-
paign at Londonderry. Ho received a fair reception,
but it ia not considered likely that ha will be elected.
Mr. J. W. Lewis, second in command of the
VVarburton expedition from South Australia to Western
Australia, died at Cossack, about the middle of last
month.
The doctrines of Agnosticism are generally
supposed to ill accord with a line palate. Yet Mr.
Bradlaugh likes pood wine, and is especially fond cf
lino claret.
At a recent Land League meeting, at Welling-
ton, N.Z., ono Mr. Tawhaio, a Maori chief, observed
that be “sympathised with the Irish, hat was not
himself an Irishman.”
Messrs. Swallow and Ariell, the big Melbourne
biscuit ft ra, who were to have started sugar-growing on
th M'lvor, have taken up (with their Melbourne rela-
tives'/ GICO acres at Cairns.
Blarney, the legal manager who bolted from
Ballarat with; his directors' coin, was a very holy man,
and used to officiate as a kind of lay reader in connec-
tion with a sect known as the Bible Christians. He is
the same person who contested Maldon in the Radical
Interest against Mr. Service, at the February election.
It is said ho has left his wife and eight children perfectly
destitute.
Captain Fraser, formerly known as “ Tandem
Fraser," and secretary of the old Geelong Tnrf Clnb, is
the only surviving officer of the contingent raised in
Victoria for service in the Waikato war.
The Princess Dolgoronki is at Milan, so as to
bo near her eldest son, who is being educated there.
In passing through Vienna she was received with much
kindness by the Emperor and Empress of Austria.
Henry Kendall lectured in the Kempsey School
of Arts on the evening of Saturday week last, in aid of
the Eonirn Catholic Church building fund. The sub-
ject was the "Legendary and Authentic Discovery of
Australia."
Mr Arthur Percy Gossett, of Eockhampton, a
wdl-known Government officer, >- a s obtained a divorce
from his wife, Emma Florence Gossett, on the ground
of her adultery with George Thomas and Frederick
George Scheffler.
Sir Gaorge C. Strahan, K.C.M.G., the new
Governor of Tasmania, is on board the Cotopaxi, which
vessel was at the Capo on the 7th November. Sir
Geerge’s private secretary is the Hon. John Wallop,
son of Lord Portsmouth.
The death of President Garfield was a fortune
to a ring of American speculators. They bought up all
the mourning goods, making a big corner, and then
organised a movement for national mourning. We
admire the Americans. They are indeed a great people.
There are few grandmothers so youthful as the
Empress of Austria. At present she resides at Ischl,
rises at 6 3) a.m., cold hath and airing, two hours’ horse
exorcise, a long read, afternoon drive, and to bed at
9 o’clock. No wonder she keeps her youth with such
habits.
M. Achilla Consnlich, who died by his own hand
in Sydney a little while since, was a native of Lussrin-
pico'ola, in Austria, and for some time lived in Towns,
ville, with M. Vidulich, an old schoolfellow ct his He
had been an officer in the Austrian army, and held a
matter’s certificate.
Professor Pearson is a leader writer for the
Age. The rest of the editorial stall are Messrs. A. E.
Windsor, G. C. Lsvey, Denkin, and A. M. Topp.
The brilliant local articles, such as that which appeared
the other day, on James Smith and the Lamont
Will Ga e, are from the pen of Mr. Windsor.
The Tasmanian Rifle Regiment officers are still
keeping up their pretty little quarrel with their third
! officer. Captain Smith. The Eoyal Commission ap-
pointed to " sit upon ’’ them, sent in its finding, recom-
mending a general embrace all round, and free drinks;
but it wouldn’t go. Poor " SwacJcey ’’ has been sent to
Coventry.
Ex-Queen Isabella of Spam made a great deal
of fuss over Mrs. J. W. Mackay, wife of the Californian
millionaire, and seated that lady on her right hand at
great dinners, and at last condescended to borrow
100,000 francs. When J.W. heard of this, he wrote
politely requesting a return of the money lent by his
wife, but Isabella replied saying that she had no return
to make, as the money was not a loan but a gift.
An interesting but rather painful fact came out
at the Albury Police Court the other day. An elderly
lady, a Mrs. Saiutonge, applied for the admission of her
grandchfid, William Collingwood Buck, to the Sydney
Orphan Asylum. The applicant stated that she was a
cousin of Admiral Collingwood, who fought under
Nelson at Trafalgar; she had two grandchildren whoso
parents were dead, and she was unable to give them
support.
It is stated that a certain Government official
will bo charged, in addition to other offences, with hav-
ing forged a Ministerial authority for the appointment
of a mythical officer in tbs Department to which he-be-
longs, and having for some months pocketed the salary
and receipted the vouchers drawn on that account. Tht
story is that all this has been going on a long while, so
that there has been at least one man in the department
cleverer than the heads.
James Munro, M.L.A., who has resigned the
secretaryship of that huge institution, the Victorian
Permanent Building Society (Melbourne.), owing to the
shareholders having objected to his continuing in
political life, has issued the prospectus of the Bank of
Australia, Limited; capital, a million, in 200,000 £5
shares. The now bank will undertake building society
busmess. J. J. Casey and J. 9. Watson (the Bendigo
quartz king) are in the alfair, as is also Mr. Eobb, of
Overend and Eobb.
An Australian lady, Mrs. Alfred Wilson Wilkins,
has just performed a literary feat which is not likely to
find many rivals or imitators. She has translated into
perfect and most elegant French the “ Bird’s-eye View
of Irish History” which forms a poition of the first
volume of Sir Charles Gavan Duffy’s " Young Ireland."
It is a mild rendering of such an exploit to any that not
one in ten thousand of the best French scholars could
have achieved it. The translation will shortly be pub-
lished in one of the leading English reviews.
The Empress Eugenie is said, while in Paris,
recently, to have drawn up her will, with the aid of M.
Eouher. She has instituted Prince Vittor, the eldest
son of Prince Napoleon, as her solo heir and executor,
in conformity with the will loft by the late Prince
Imperial, and presented him as the chief of the Napo-
leonic dynasty, to the re-establishment of which she
advises him to consecrate his largo fortune. M. Eouher
has been asked to edit the ex-Empress’a diary, for pub-
lication, first in England, afterwards in France.
Mr. J. E. Palmer and another Bathurst gentle-
man recently returned from a five months’ tour in the
direction of Cooper’s Creek. They travelled over 1200
miles of country, using the same horses, and they pene-
trated the bush 130 miles beyond whore Burke and
Wills perished. Mr. J. E. Dargin, Inspector of Euns,
has also recently returned to Bathurst. In a ten
months’ trip he negotiated 10,000 miles. As we stated
some time ago. the tree under which Burke died is on
the station of Mr. John Conrick, and has been carefully
fenced in.
An old man of 73, named Ford, died the other
day in Victoria while discharging the duties of a rail-
way gatekeeper. His son holds one *ot the highest
positions in the Government service; the father held
one of the lowest. Strong comments have been made
on these apparently anomalous relations of such near
kith and kin, but their very strangeness suggests that
these were the results of "incompatibility of temper"
rather than of unfllial indifference. Some fathers would
rather break stones than bo indebted to their children
for a penny, and this was the case with the old gentle-
man in question.
Yale, the ex-Attorney-General of Victoria,
originally kept a newspaper shop at Ballarat. "It
should not be forgotten." remarks iEgles, “ that, de-
spite deficiencies of temper, Mr. Vale has before now
shown an honesty of purpose not invariably discover-
able in public life. Mr. Vale, after he was a Minister of
the Crown, read Ceosar with a tutor to improve himself
occasionally, which was much to his credit. Although
I am not in Mr. Berry’s secrets, I do know that Mr. B.
did not know that his late colleague, Mr. V., was about
to commit the happy despatch on the floor of the House
till after the fatal occurrence.”
A popular Jehu, known as “Harry the
Whistler,” who drives a responsive team, bet ween New-
castle and Wallsend, has hia horses’ tastes so well
cultivated that he has been able to eschew the whip, and
works their paces according to the melody ho gives
forth. Thus, when Harry wants them to hit out from
the shoulder, and show their muscle, he strikes up
** Haste to the wedding.” Again, when ho wants them
to slacken speed, he gives them “ Come let us be happy
together" or “ Still so gently o’er mo stealing," while
the first bar of “ The Dead March in Saul" makes them
droop their heads and move at a snail’s pace.
A good many years ago a pig sale was adver-
tised in a certain N.S.W. country town, and among
those who assembled on the night previous to the
auction at the hotel adjoining the yards, was an indivi-
dual who has since blossomed into a prominent politi-
cian, and now holds a portfolio in ono of the colonial
cabinets. There was a big spree on, and when, in the
morning, the auctioneer proceeded to business, he
found, lying at full length in one of the pig-troughs, the
gentleman now known as the Honourable , M.L A.
The knight of the hammer put the human pig up to
auction, but, strange to say, there wasn't a bid for him.
But people say there have been a good many bids for
him since.
Mr. John Humphries, the gentleman who, some
twenty years ago, succeeded in capturing the notorious
coloured bushranger, " Black Harry," has just re-
turned from a visit to the old country. Mr Humphries
had been for over forty years a resident of the colony
when he left two years ago, intending to spend the rest
of his days in "Old England. Ho has, however, returned,
determined again to enter into business in sunny New
South Wales. Mr. Humphries did not receive one of the
medals which were presented to those persons who had
during their lives been lucky or brave enough to
capture any notorious outlaws, fto. Surely there were
none more worthy of a medal than the captufer of the
bloodthirsty murderer above mentioned.
An A mcrican reporter went to see Erailie Mel-
ville, and this is the paragraph ho wrote next day,
headed “ The Melville underpinning : ’’— “ Her feet ate
the tiniest, daintiest little bits that ever were encased
in hosiery and san-'alsl You need an opera-glass to
find them. When you sea them, you want to see more
of them; you seem to heir the rustlehf silk, and the
tinkle of lutes, and the air is heavy with Arabian per-
fumes. ’-They play at hide-and-seek with your admiring
eye; now daintily stealing out from beneath the jealous,
selfish gown, that would conceal them, and now petu-
lantly hiding their pretty little charms beneath the
fluffy wealth of immaculate tkirts. Emilie is very
proud of her feet. One of her eccentricities is to give
her old slippers to the newspaper critics ” —but, we had
better stop here.
T Mr. Brnco Smith, who has lately commenced
practice as a barrister in Sydney, is a capital platform
speaker, and had few equals in readiness and tact
among the Victorian Conservatives. Ho once, at
Emerald Hill, addressed a very hostile audience, who
howled lustily and asked him whether it wasn't true
that he was Che son of a father (Captain Howard
Smith) who was guilty of the unpardonable crime of
having now boilers put into his steamships in Sydney
instead of in Melbourne docks. Mr. Smith replied that
he wasn’t his father’s keeper, but he supposed that if
the M. S S. Co.’s boilers were got in Sydney, it was
because they were to be hat more cheaply in the
Northern city. “ It’s ail very well," ha continued,
“ for a couple of thousand of you to yell at me like
that; bat how many of yon can stand up and swear
that yon are wearing not imported cloth, but Geelong
tweed ?” One man only got on his legs.
The other day, the Pall Mall Gazette, in
speaking of the £30,000 given to Melbourne University
by Sir Samuel Wilson, for the purpose of building a
new hail, said that Sir Samuel’s object in making the
splendid donation referred to, was to commemorate
the name of his brother, the late Professor Wilson.
Now, as a matter of fact, the brilliant mathematieijn
alluded to was in no way re’ated to Sir Samuel Wilson.
Professor Wilson was the son of a Peterborough watch-
maker ; Sir Samuel hails from Belfast. Professor
Wilson, wo believe, was one of the only two senior
wranglers who have visited or been located in Aus-
tralia ; the other was Dr. Perry, the first Anglican
Bishop of Melbourne, who is now in England. The
Herald, indignant at anyone sneering at a rich upstart,
quoted the other day the Gazette’s sycophantic para-
graph about Sir Samnel, who had been mercilessly
chaffed as a “ presuming, rash, intruding fool,” when
he rented Hughenden Manor.
A gentleman, whose name has been in everyone’s
mouth for some time past, in connection with a certain
little mining trouble, has had a chequered career. He
came to the colony as an employ'd of one of the big
English land companies, and after leaving their service
was in turn a law writer, a newspaper collector, and a
great many other things. At one time he might be
found selling to diggers a plate of “ Sheep’s Jimmy ”
soup, and a read of the newspaper for sixpence; at an-
other, bossing a hop-beer factory, which consisted of
half-a-dozen nailcans. However, this is the very first
occasion on which anything has been raid against his
character. Those who know him best have Ihe utmost
faith in his honesty and good-heartedness. It is hard to
have to b-lieve that a man, who in his private dealings
has gained the character of entire straightforwardness
and integrity, should have become corrupted by mere
contact with political affairs. But the people of the
colony have so long been content to credit that a man
notoriously corrupt and unfaithful in private transac-
tions may be pure and upright in a public capacity,
that perhaps it will not be so difficult for them, as
it might be for others, to believe the inverse possi-
bility. The ill-starred man now in question, we believe,
never gave a bill, merely because he reckoned he would
never be able to meet one.
Ned Trickett, private letters inform us, is not
likely to return to Sydney until his luck changes, or he
finds himself utterly unable fo get on any more
matches. Hitherto, he has had the greatest difficulty
in arranging for any contest. It is a fact that the most
prominent of Hanlan’s late supporters has offered to
back Trickett to row any man in Canada, or America,
Hanlan included, for 10,000dels., but no response had
been made up to the time the mail left; and though we
were, some weeks ago, informed by cable that a match
beween Hanlan and Trickott had been arranged for the
22nd of this month, a later wire says that the match
was not likely to eventuate at once—whether it is
absolutely off or has merely been postponed can only
be matter for conjecture until the arrival of the ’Frisco
steamer. A gentleman who returned from the States
by the la-t mail informs us that btfore his departure
he met Trickett, who was in splendid form—looking
magnificent in fact. The gentleman referred to attri-
butes our man’s defeat to the immense superiority
of the American oarsmen, but in view of the fact that
all the Yankee scullers w-vre easily disposed of by
Lnyccck, who was well known to be Trickett’s in-
ferior on the Parramatta, such a theory will not hold
water for an instant. Trickett’s backer says that
now Ned has been “ fixed up” as Hanlan was, and pro-
perly tutored in the use of the slide, he can confidently
be relied <sn to beat the Canadian.
A good many years ago, a party of young fellows
from a station were cut on a fishing excursion. The
river was bordered by patches of scrub interspersed
with bits of open plain, and watered by anabranches, so
that game abounded and blacks were plentiful. The
fishers were preparing their tackle when they were a
trifle alarmed to see a blackfellow of considerable
stature emerging from a clrfmp of scrub close at hand,
and bearing down upon them. There was a hurried
unstrapping of the one gun the party had with them,
but the aboriginal held up his hands in token of amity,
and was allowed to approach. To the surprise of the
young men, the blackfellow addressed them in ‘‘gude
braid Scotch.” “ Hae yo any buika wi’ ye ? " he de-
manded. “ Baal got ’nm book,” replied the party ad-
dressed, mechanically answering in blackfellows’ lingo.
“Weel, then, ye’ll addins hae a paaper ? ” “Baal, we
hav’na got ’am paper,” rejoined a Scotchman of the
party, dreadfully mixed in his ideas what language to
employ to this extraordinary sort of blackfellow.
“Hoots,” continued tfco aboriginal, "yoong men
shouldna’ negleo’ to improve their unnerstandin’s. Hae I
here’s a bit maunuscrip’ ye michtroad wi’ advantage,”
and he produced from the gnnny-bag slung under his
arm—his sole encumbrance, by the way—a dingy roll of
written papers'; and having borrowed come ’bacca and
picked up a promiscuous bone from the relics of the
breakfast, he retired gnawing at it to a camp of blacks
which was now perceived in the scrub. Not one of the
a-bounded party imagined that in the apparent black-
fellow they had entertained unawares a future member
of a colonial legislature.
Some time before the lamented death of Mr.
Marcus Clarke, we stated that he was engaged on a new
novel, “ Felix and Felicitas.” Concerning this we find
the following interesting paragraph in “A Lady’s
Letter from London," contributed to the Austral-
asian:—“The literary world here have received with
great regret the intelligence of Mr. Marcus Clarke’s
death. His tales of the early davs of the colonies, and
his very striking novel. “ His Natural Life.” made a
desp impression here. We were always expecting an-
other powerful fiction from his pen. I fear he has not
left any finished work, and I regret the fact all the
more deeply that I have been allowed (by Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy) the privilege of reading a few chaptf rs of
a novel bognn by Mr. Marcus Clarke, under the title of
“ Felix and Felicitas.” The promise of those chapters
is quite exceptional; they equal in brilliancy and
vivacity the best writing of Edward Whitty, and they
surpass that vivid writer in construction. It is difficult
to believe, while reading the opening chapters of this,
I fear, unfinished work, that the author lived at tke
other side of the world from the scenes and the society
which ho depicts with such accuracy, lightness, grace,
and humour,” Yet there era members of Parliament
in New South Wales who, when asked to give some-
thing in aid of Mr. Clarke’s widow and children, said,
“ Clarke—Marcus Clarke —who was he ? Never heard of
him before.” No wonder that Henry Kendall should
speak of
“The lot austere
That ever seems to wait upon
The man of letters hero."


RETIRING PROM BUSINESS.
£25,000 STOCK
MUST BE DISPOSED OP!
jy/£R. EDWARD HORDERN
Begs to notify to the Pubic of New South Wales, in
consequence of recent severe family bereavement and
failing health, his intention to
Retire from the Drapery Easiness
in favour of his Tons,
MR. EDWARD HOBDEKN, Junior,
MB. PERCY HORDERN,—
and ME. HUGH KITTSON,
f-rho has held a responsible position in his Establish-
ment for many years past.
THE NEW FIRM
WILL COMMENCE BUSINESS
on the
FIRST DAY of JANUARY, 1832,
Under the name and style of
EDWARD HORDERN % SONS,
Meanwhile, to reduce the stock (which is a valuable
one) it will bo offered to the Public at such
Tempting Prices,
that a speedy Clearance must follow.
EDWARD HORDERN.
RETIRING FROM BUSINESS!
£25,000 STOCK to dispose of!!!
EDWARD HORDERN,
IMPORTER OP FIRST-CLASS DRAPERY,
683 Brickfield Hill (only) “ The Old Shop.”
RARE CHANCE FOB COMMISSION AGENTS !
RARE CHANCE FOR HOTEL PROPRIETORS I
:EAEE CHANCE FOE HEA.DS OP FAMILIES!
RARE CHANCE FOE STEAM-BOAT COMPANIES!
RARE CHANCE FOE EVERYBODY!
GREAT CLEARING SALE !
COMMENCED ON MONDAY, 28m NOVEMBER,
Ax 10 am.
THE GOODS ARE ALL NEW AND FRESH.
EVERY LINE MUST BE SOLD,
The following SPECIAL ADVANTAGES will be carried
out during the Sale :
PURCHASERS of parcels from £1 to £i will receive
Five per cent, discount.
Purchasers of parcels of £5 and upwards will receive
Ten per cent, discount, or Ten Shillings returned
to r every Five Pounds spent.
THIS BONA-FIDE SALE WILL BE CONTINUED
FOE A FEW WEEKS ONLY.
LOSE—NO—TIME—TO—SECURE—BARGAINS.
ORDERS FROM THE COUNTRY, accompanied with
Bank notes or Post Office orders, will receive imme-
diate attention, and will be subject to the same
LIBERAL DISCOUNT—viz., TEN SHILLINGS
RETURNED for every FIVE POUNDS spent.
THE STOCK MUST BE CLEARED OUT
BY END OF THE YEAR.
THIS IS A GENUINE, BONA-FIDE SALE.
THE PUBLIC MAY COME AND BUY
WITH CONFIDENCE.
FRESH CLEAN GOODS TO SELECT FROM.
COME AT ONCE, AND SECURE BARGAINS-
-668 Brickfield Hill (only).
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
at 3.30 p.m.,
ON THE GROUND.
THE WARREN ESTATE,
Marrickville Heights.
Formerly owned and occupied by Hon. Thomas Holt,
M.L C,, and now the property of the Excelsior
Land, Investment, an<J Building C mpany and
Bank, Limited, containing upwards of
140 AGEES,
of beautifully undulating, park-like land, having up-
wards of 3000 feet frontage to the most picturesque
part of Cook’s River-road, and also grand frontages
to Illawarra-road, Unwin’s Bridge-road, and
Warren-road.
FIEST GREAT SALE, on the Ground,
NEXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
3rd DECEMBER.
The FIRST SALE of the WAEEEN ESTATE,
in Subdivision,
FIFTY ACRES,
including the MOST ELEVATED PORTION of the
ESTATE, commencing at the LODGE
GATES, will bo offered at
THE FIRST SALa,
NEXT SATURDAY,
IN VILLA LOTS
IN VILLA LOTS,
. Each 55 Feet Frontage by about 150 Feet Deep,
50 i 150.
•2T SPECIAL FEATURES—
TORRENS’ TITLE,
GRAND VIEWS
GOOD SOIL,
WIDE HOADS.
V SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS—
HEALTHY POSITION,
ELEVATED LAND.
TRAMWAY COMMUNICATION.
V bead THE TERMS :
PURCHASERS CAN EASILY SUIT THEMSELVES
FROM THE FOLLOWING
No. 1. 25 per cent, deposit; balance in seven days;
DEEDS GIVEN FREE
No. 2 20 per cent, deposit; balance in four quarterly
payments, WITHOUT INTEREST.
No. 3. 10 per cent, deposit and eight quarterly pay-
ments, with interest added, at the rate of 5 per
cent.
No, 4. 10 per cent deposit, and 16 quarterly payments;
interest at 6 per cent.
No. 5. 10 per cent, deposit, and 2t quarterly payments ;
interest at 7 per cant.
No. 6.10 per cent, deposit; balance to remain on usnal
Building Society terms, viz., 6s per week for
each £lOO owing.
TORRENS’ TITLE,
TORRENS’ TITLE,
THE WARREN MANSION,
with a large area of improved grounds, will be
offered at the same time.
THIS MANSION, so long known as Mr. Holt’s family
home, is admirably adapted
Ist. For a residence for a gentleman of means.
2nd. For a first-class boarding-school.
3rd. For a large family hotel, with pleasure
grounds.
*** The accommodation is most extensive, and the
building, which is massively built, is replete with
every moderate convenience.
HARDIE AND GORMAN
HAVE been favoured with instructions from
the Directors of the EXCELSIOR LAND IN-
VESTMENT,and BUILDING COMPANY and BANK,
Limited, to hold
THE FIEST SALE
of their magnificent Warren Estate,
ON THE GROUND.
Saturday. 3rd December.
LITE OS, are NOW READY.
V NOTE THE SPECIAL TEEMS POE PERSONS
• DESIROUS OF BUILDING FORTHWITH,
on the
WAEEEN ESTATE, M AEEIC KVILLE
HEIGHTS.
The Directors, in addition to the liberal terms
they offer to purchasers of allotments on tho Warreu
Estate, have decided io add the following special in-
ducements to those who purchase at the FIEST
AUCTION SALE on 3rd DECEMBER next:— All
buyers who have approved plans prepared and contracts
entered into for tho erection of buildings on the estate
within three months from the day of sale can have
NINETY PER CENT of the cost of the building ad-
vanced to them, and NO INTEREST will be charged
on half the amount owing to the FIEST FOUE
YEARS of the loan. And those who enter into con-
tracts for the erection of buildings on the estate from
approved plans within 6 months from the day of sale
can get 90 PER CENT, of tho cost of the building ad-
vanced, and will be charged NO INTEREST for the
FIRST FOUE YEARS on one-fourth of tho amount
owing.
DAY OF SALE,
NEXT SATURDAY, 3rd DECEMBER,
on the Ground, at 3 p.m.
v REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED ON THE
GROUND.
%♦ In order to accommodate the large number of in-
tending buyers, the AUCTIONEERS have'23 4-horse
OMNIBUSES to leave the Booms at 2 o’clock sharp.
Special attention is directed to the great improve
monts being effected at the WARREN ESTATE by
the EXCELSIOR COMPANY. A number of VILLAS
and GuTTAGE RESIDENCES will be erected forth-
with, thus AT ONCE IMPROVING the adjoining lots
in a precisely similar way to ELSVVIGK ESTATE,
Petersham.
READ THE TEEMS,
and
ATTEND THE SALE NEXT SATURDAY,
MORTLAKE,
PARBAMATTA RIVER.
2 MILES FROM BURWOOD,
HALF A MILE FROM NEW EAILWAY LINE.
SUBDIVISION OF 39 AGEES,
bjingr portion of
MACDONALD'S ESTATE.
ALMOST ALL COVERED with OEANOE TREES,
and
SUMMER FRUITS,
FOE THE GROWTH OP WHICH, the RICHNESS
of tho
SOIL renders it ADMIRABLY ADAPTED.
HAVING LARGE WATER FRONTAGE. *
81 VILLA SITES.
Surrounded by tho Properties of Mrs. Moore, Mr. T.
Johnstone, Mrs. Murphy, and Mr. W. H, Mac-
donald,
and
by the waters of the Parramatta River.
«■ The position of this VALUABLE WATERSIDE
ESTATE
is bo well known
that it is unnecessary to describe it any further,
being
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE EYDE.
JETTY AT MOETLAIKE.
GOVERNMENT JETTY ABOUT TO BE CON-
STRUCTED ON THE OTHER BOUNDARY.
S3T Special Steamers on day of Sale.
TITLE.—Apply to W. J. Ferguvsou, Esq., Solicitor,
Eli zabeth -street.
HARDEE AND GORMAN
HAVE received instructions to sell by public
auction, ,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, 3rd DECEMBER,
at 3 o’clock.
LITHOGRAPHS at the ROOMS.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3.
ON THE GROUND,
BANDWIOK.
AVOCA SQUARE,
THE PICK OP THAT CBARMING ESTATE,
AV O C
SECTION 1,
NEARLY ALL OF SECTION 2,
41 CHOICE LOTS.
CHABMING OCEAN VIEWS.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have been
instructed by the proprietors to hold
A CLEARANCE SALE
on the Grouad,
SATURDAY, 3rd DECEMBER.
THE ALLOTMENTS now to be offered are
THE PICK OP THE ESTATE,
BEING SITUATE ON A BEAUTIFUL HILL
SLOPING TOWARDS THE OCEAN.
THE FRONTAGES ARE 66 FEET EACH.
TEE DEPTHS 135 FEET.
THERE ARE NO LANES.
THE STREETS ARE 60 FEET WIDE.
THE TITLE IS TORRENS’ ACT.
THIS IS THE MOST CHABMING SPOT IN
BANDWICK.
FREE TRAM TICKETS ON APPLICATION AT
THE ROOMS.
LITHOS. CAN BE OBTAINED AT THE ROOMS.
ATORNING, Candidate for Bourko Ward,
• Resident in the Ward for upwards of 30 years,
with experience gained in England, America, and here,
will use his utmost endeavours to make certain the
Ratepayers interests are Conserved, and their money
judiciously and faithfully expended.
Father of the Volunteer Fire Companies for protection
of life and property.
VOTE FOR YOUR OLD AND TRIED FRIEND.
JjIITZROY WARD.
ELECTORS CHOOSE’A
CAPABLE, HONEST, AND FEARLESS
REPRESENTATIVE.
THOROUGH REFORM
IN THE COUNCIL WANTED.
(ELECT MR. P. MACMAHON,
Whoso Independent Position, and Known Public
Character
IS A GUARANTEE OF FAITHFUL SERVICES.
Roll up to the Poll Early,
WANTED, an ENGRAVER on WOOD.
Apply, E. and F. W. MASON, 124 Elizabeth-
street.
SATURDAY, 3rd DECEMBER.
NOETH SHOEE. | NORTH SHORE.
CLOSE TO
BUSSELL’S GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL,
AND
THE SCHOOL OF ARTS.
«■ lu the Estate of the late Me, W. WILLOUGHBY.
V 55 MAGNIFICENT VILLA SITE?.
LARGE BLOCK OF GOOD BRICK LAND
5 HOUSES, AND BLOCK,
250 x 200, facing the MAIN LANE COVE ROAD.
*** TO CLOSE A TRUST ESTATE.
EVERY ALLOTMENT MUST BE SOLD.
**• POSITIVELY NO RESERVE.
BAIT, ROOD, AND PURVES
HAVE received peremptory instructions to sell
these eligible properties,
SATURDAY, 3rd DECEMBER,
ON THE GROUND,
at 3 p m.
SECTION 1 contains 13 allotments, having frontage;
of from 61 to 40 feet each to VICTORIA
AVENUE, VICTOR STREE r. and a GOVERN
MENT ROAD, by depths of 120 feet
SECTION 2—26 allotments, having similar frontage;
STREETS ° n ’ aUd facin S the SAME
SECTION!? —4 allotment®, having frontages vnrviiv.
insizefrom 54 to 50 feet, by depths from ISO U
avwmdVp bou , tldo<: }, on side by VICTORfA
ME E NT U ROADS° U three otller sides b y govern.
SECTION 4.—2 S allotments, having 40 feet fronts
to VICTOR STREET and 2 GOVERN MR
ROADS, by depths of 120 feet, togethefwitli
HOUSE and all IMPROVEMENTS THEBEG
SECTION 5.-14 allotments, exactly similar to
STREETS. 111 CVCFy reSpeCt> faciu fT tb3 SAME
SECTION G.—CHOICE BLOCK of BRICK I,AND
in area 3 acres 2 roods 391 perches, having 29
feet 8 inches frontage to VICTORIA A VPN Iff
on one side, and a GOVERNMENT ROAD outh.
other, bv a dep'h of 517 feet 6 inches togethe
with all IMPROVEMENTS THEREON
«S- All the above consist of GOOD TOIL and nv,
situate jus; off the L VNE COVE ROAD.
Also,
Lot 3 —BLOCK OF LAND, having about 25(
feet frontage to the LANE COVE ROAD In
about 200 feet deep, and forming lots 1 2 3 4 ant
5. section 5 of the CHATSWOOD ESTATE. ’
JUST NOTE THE ADVANTAGES.
LIBERAL FRONTAGES, LONG DEPTHS,
RICH SOIL, GRAND VIEWS
ALL IMPROVED LAND,
Really FIRST-GLASS SURROUNDINGS
ALL STREETS ONE CHAIN WIDE.
*** The PARTICULAR ATTENTIONof all in searel
of land in this FAVOURITE, m
'K““™ soisvel, “
W VERY LITTLE REALLY GO ID LAND i
obtainable at NORTH SHOEE at anything lito
REASONABLE FIGURE, hence THIS PROPERTY
situate as it is opposite the CUATSWORtit paqh
OFFICE, the PUBLIC SCHOOL SCHOOT°m
ARTS. RUSSELL’S GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL
and on!y a few yards off the main LANK COVI
° OM ««n* a f lfc doea ot RICH IMPROVEI
LAND, beautifully elevated, commanding msgnifleen
views, and with first-class snrroiirw’in<ra „„
CONTINUE TO FAST IMPROVE IN VALUE.
WITHOUT 5 RESERVE, 0 PlaC9
ON THE GROUND, at 3 p.m.,
NETT SATURDAY, 3rd DECEMBER.
*** RI rilOS. 'on application.
FREE STEAMER on dry of sale
TITLE,’FREEHOLD, GUARANTEED.
TERMS3O per cent, deposit, thelbalance at 3 6
fittest! months from da * 01 Bale > with only 5 per cent
SOLICITOR to the Estate,
F. B. FREE HILL, Esq.,
Elizabeth-street,
obtai’nod Wll3m aU particulars a 3 t( > TITLE, &0.. may bo
EXTSA T U E D A
SHOEE UNRESERVED LAND SALE.
willoughby^estate.
NEXT SATURDAY, 3rd DECEMBER
at 3 p.m., '
ON THE GROUND.
Just Note the ADVANTAGES.
LIBERAL FRONTAGES, LONG DEPTHS
RICH SOIL, GRAND VIEW
ALL IMPROVED LAND.
Really FIRST-CLASS SURROUNDING
AH STREETS ONE CHAIN WIDE.
*** The PARTICULAR ATTENTION of all in ®ear
of land in this FAVOURITE, FASHIONABLE a
RAPIDLY IMPROVING, and increasing suburb
directed to THIS SALE. * DIUD '
«* VERY LITTLE REALLY GOOD LAND
obtamable at NORTH SHORE at anything liio
REASONABLE FIGURE, hence THIS PBOPERT
situate aa it is opposite the CHATS WORTH po-
OFFiCE the PUBLIC SCHOOL, SCHOOL (
ARTS, RUSSELL'S GEh-A I- NORTHERN HOTE
and only a few yards off the main LANE COVE ROA
consisting as it does of RICH IMPROVED L4N
beautifully elevated, commanding magnificent view
and with first-class surroundings, must CONTTnt'
TO FAST IMPROVE IN VALUE. L
BATT, RODD, AND PURVES,
NORTH SHORE.—Willoughby Eatato Not*-
Saturday, on the ground. Plans now re.-dv. iiatt
Kodd, & Purvos. * •


Hotels, &o.
ROBINSON’S FITZ:
WILLT A M ST
woolloomooi
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF A
Is PER BOTTI
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKE
all round.
N.B.—Cockburn’s Grape (POE 1
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and Ame
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table,
fitted rooms in th* colony.
POOL EVERY EV:
The compagnoni cate
OF PITT-STEEET have m
nonncing to the public, that to reu
want of space to accommodate thei
Luncheon hour, tbo.y have convt
Banqueting Hall into an addition;
which is now open, and where ev
directed to visitors patronising thi
premises.
The I'fiHiard-room, with a superi
is under the management of a first-
branch of Catering undertaken, ar
staff of experienced and polite wait
Through continued misrepresent
beg to mention that they are not ir
with any other person, or persons,
SAMUEL PAC
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jtty £Jateeing
Hotels, fee.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &o.
Kiama hote
G. TOUT, Peoi
Commercial Travellers, Exou
seekers. and persons travelling gci
1i >tel the best and cheapest on the
- plcndid table kept, an<) every com
travelling shows, &o. Sample ro
Travellers.
Tbe *• Laycock" Coach meets th«
passengers, luggage, &o..tonnd fro
part of the country. Buggies at
hire. Billiards.
F
ILLON’S PEIZE AI
J. T. FAT,LON’S in asking pul
WINES, and to the awards gnim
intimate that ho holds very largo st
and the public may rely upon gett
and in almost any quantity,
Cbsteai Depo
91 PITT STREET, S
VINETAM :
MURRAY RIYER VALLEY,
NEW SOUTH Wi
These Wines wore awarded first-
following Exhibitions: —
London International ...
Paris „
Vienna „
Philadelphia ~
Also at the various Intercolonial
toria New South Wales, Qcoer
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CbA
IN TEEN ATION AL EXHIBIT
WHITE.
Eeisling Aucarot I Shii
Verdeillio Brown Muscat Carl
Tokay I Bur;
Champagne, Medium Dry. C
ICE ICE
E
rjIHE CITY ICE COMPANY
ADDITION to their WORKS
Manufacture upwards of TEN TO!
are prepared to Supply the LUXI
PEOACIIING SUMMEE, at a lo
For prices, &c. t
Apply to
3 WYNYARD STB
OR TO TAB!
R
OBEET BUTC:
(Late William L(
WINE AND SPIRIT MI
534 GEORGE STE
OPPOSITE TOWN KALI
Country Orders Receive Pei
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. H E BB L EYi
416 GEORGE STE
m ii e
AU S T
■HOME" SHUT
Tobacoonis
TIN TAG!
1
Caution to Store]
ANYONE selling Tobacco witi
other than those bearing on
“CONQUEEER” or “TAN]
is infringing onr rights, and will
by Law.
We are obliged to give this noth
factnrer has been sending ont one
of Tobacco with a Bound Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPE
DIXSON AND !
155 TOEK STK
TOBACCO S MO
Note the Abov
wf
J.EVB . TOBACCO!
llUllllMillllll.llll.lllllll
JAMES El
No. 149 KING S’
(Opposite Theatre Eoyal Stn
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of
Pipes mounted and ambi
149 KING STREI
Loans granted wit:
moderate rates, on all kinds <
mcnts to suit convenience of bom
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-i
King-street. Established 1859.
XI LATE AND SHE
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS,
PAPEEHANGINi
(a really splendid si
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME
KENT’S BEUSHI
GOLD LEAP, &<
- a wrvoc unDWTrarrmr o
m
mmm
mwm
W
a
i ;. -'
rSK/
*•./
*=.
i
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOIT
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEPI
VIRGOE, SON, AND
HONESTY IS THE B]
It is of the utmost importance t!
bottle should bo carefully compare
arc being imported into New Soi
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite boven
LOHNE HIGHLAND WHISKY
other brands, when they will find
least 10 per cent, in favour of LI
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AND BEEE BOTI
105 PITT STREI
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s p
ALBUEY WINE
EED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUNTER RIVER W
Claret
Lambruscat
POET MACQUARIE 1
Burgundy.
MERCHANTS
AGENTS.
||||f|||
,I*'
WBwas
AGENTS.
I MARTIN 1
AUSTRALIAN WINE M;
OOLALTA WlNtf
119 PITT STREET,
The Celebrated
ThePurestStimulant
The Heme of M. MOSS & 00#
every Genuine Bottle.
..'i
rfPSwffi
A. vi
cfs:
'\
EKIn
;im«l
■S
• -
SB
IT ianot the clearness or conditit
Ale that* preserves this brant
nation. Common bitter crude beor
but no has tho same m
ter, tho fulness on the palate, on
qualities of the Bull Dog Alo. C<
lore cautioned against traders win
extra profit represent the common
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, ■
CO., Sole Agents.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers or sporting
events in general.
RACING.
CootamfihJFk December 1, 2-
OoiAatu (N.Z.) Jockey Club.. December 7 andB-
- (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9’
femora December 8, 9-
Tasmanian J.C December 10.
Batbnr-t Amateur Torf Club December 10.
Queensland....... ...December 10.
Hamilton (Vie.)....... December 14, 13.
Williamstown (Vie) December 24.
Hawke’s Boy (NX) Racing Club December 25.
Pairnsdale (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A. J.C. Summer Meeting December 26.
Parramatta. December 26.
Mftdgee.. December 26.
Deniliquin December 23.
Dubbo December 26.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 36, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 28.
Sydney Turf Club . ..December 81.
Kensington Park (Vic.) December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Deo. 26; Jan. 1, 2—1882.
V.E.C. Champien . January 1.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) January 1.
Forbes January 2.
Hay...-- January 2, 3.
Glen 1nna5...... January 2, 3.
Port Macquarie Januiry 3, 4.
Martou, Rangitikei (N.Z.) J.C. January 2 and 3.
Geelong January 26, 27.
Broulee January 26 and 27.
New England J.C January 26, 27.
Wellington (N.Z.) E.C. Summer Meeting ..Feb. 2 and 3.
Vegetable Creek Febnary 9. IP.
Tasmanian Jockey Club.! February 14, 15, and 16.
Inverell February 17,18.
Tasmanian Turf Club February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.K.) Autumn Meeting Feb. 23.24,25.
V.R.C March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11, 13.
Albury March 16, 17.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club March 16 and 17.
AQUATICS.
Glebe E C December 24.
Snail’s Bay Amateur Regatta December 17.
Printers’ Regatta... December 17.
Brisbane Regatta December 10.
South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion Regatta December 17.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December 24.
Raymond Terrace Regatta December 26.
Pyrmout Regatta December 26.
Newcastle Annual Regatta January 1.
Lane Cove Regatta January 1.
Port Macqnarie Annual Regatta January 2.
Stockton Regatta January 26.
PEDESTRIANISM.
Bathurst Athlectic Sports December 26.
Highland Society, Association Ground.? January 1.
CRICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven: —December 1,2, 3, against 22 of Bathurst;
December 7,8, against 22 of Parramatta; December
against 22 of Cootamundra; December 9,10, 12, against
11 of New South Wales at Sydney ; December 16,17,19,
against 11 of Victoria at Melbourne; December 23, 24,
26, against 18 of South Australia at Adelaide; Decem-
ber 31, January 2 and 3, Combined Australian Eleven at
Melbourne; January 12,13, 14, against 22 of Otago at
Dunedin; January 16 and 17, against Oamaru or
Timaru; January 20, 21, 23, against 15 of Canterbury at
Christchurch; January 26. 27, 28, against 22 of Wel-
lington at Wellington; February 2,3, 4, against 22 of
Auckland at Auckland; February against Stan-
more 18 at Norwood Park ; February 17, 18, 20, against
Combined Australian Team at Sydney.
Holdaworfch-Gardyne Cup matches :—Warwick
v. Carlton, December 3. Order of matches to follow :
Albert v. Carlton, Warwick v. University, Carlton v.
University Albert v. Warwick. Warwick v. Carlton,
Albart v. Carlton, Albert v. University, Warwick v.
University.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Chifney, the jockey, is all right again.
The Parramatta J.C. hold a meeting on Boxing
Day.
Regatta at Stockton is fixed for next Anniver-
sary Day.
A six days’ tournament at Melbourne, com-
mences 12fch December.
The international rifle match at Melbourne was
won by the Scotch team.
Evans plays with the Cumberland Twenty-two
against thi English Eleven.
The Totaliaator Pill was rejected by the Vic-
torian Assembly on its second reading.
The race between Martindale and Seoundus, for
the Wagga Cup, decided which way the double event
was to go.
At the Victorian Rifle Association matches, the
Queen’s Prize Cup, value £ICO, was won by Hanby, of
tae Geelong artillery.
Boyd and flanlan, for the championship of the
world, meet on the T> ne in May next. “Hanlan finds
that his business,” &o. &c.
J. Stritch plays J. Byrne a billiard match at
St. James’ Hall, on 2nd December, for £5O aside and the
championship of Australia.
Thirty thousand dollars have been offered as an
inducement for the racehorses Foxhall and Iroquois to
meat on the Chicago course.
Most of the big events on the American turf are
run in heats, three in five being the usual thing; this
is a test of speod and bottom.
The beat on records are undergoing great
change. At nearly every pedestrian or race meeting
the previous or best time is beaten.
The Victorian Betting Club’s meeting at Flem-
ington on January 7, should be successful. Seven
events on the programme, and £l2OO in stakes.
Three policemen had charge of the American
horse, Iroquois, for one mouth prior to his run for the
St. Leger. His trainer, Pincus, always slept with him.
Allen (111), having beaten Alick Bannerman’s
score (110) in the Holdsworth-Qardyne Cup matches,
holds a good claim on the trophy for highest individual
score.
The Victoria Amateur Turf Club have entered
into negotiations with Mr. G. Yowles, with the view of
inducing him to act as judge at future race meetings of
the Club.
On 28th July, Maud S. trotted three consecutive
mile heats at Belmont Park* Philadelphia, in the un-
precedented time of 2min. 12sec., 2min. 13isec., and 2
min. 121-aec.
Thomas Cook, who was prevented from con-
ducting a totalisator at Flemington on Cup day by
Detective Duncan, has issued a writ against that officer
for £5O damages.
The first of the practice matches arranged byithe
new Handball Association is to take place on Saturday,
at Dillon's hall court. It is to bo a six-hand game of
three twenty-ones.
A correspondent suggests that a closer ac-
quaintance with the currents in the harbour, and a
better knowledge of the handling and management of
boats, would greatly improve our second-class yacht
races. There are four or five second-class yachts in tho
harbour which would proye worthy rivals with a fair
handicap to tho crack boats. Owners of tfiese crafts
are discouraged through constant defeat, caused by
sheer bad handling and incorrect calculations.
Beckwith defeated Jones, on 10th September,
for the 500 yards championship of England. Tho tiffio,
• min. Srec., is the fastest for the distance ever swum in
a bath. It was a swindle.
HotV ihuch longer is New South Wales or Aus-
tralia to be unrepresented on the English turf?
America has now one or two horses running in every
big event in England. How Long, we say ?
A billard match, Weiss v. Howard, 1000 up, .£2O
aside, Weiss giving his opponent 159 points, took place
at G'en Innes on November 23. Wei-s caught Howard
at 409, and eventually won by about 270 point j.
There was a doubt with the Brisbane regatta
committee whether, .Solomon should be considered a
flrsbplscs sotlller. Unless both Laycock and he com-
pete in the race, the big prize will fall through.
The 48 hours’ go-as-you-please at Geelong was
won by Clifford, who coveied no less than 215 miles in
the Swan was seconl, El wards third. In the
twenty.four hours. Edwards covered 118 miles 210
yards.
The selection committee should ask Messrs.
Bignell, Webb, and Howe, to pay a ' isit to the prac-
tices for the Intercolonial contest. Having bowled the
Britishers out is a good recommendation, and we want
bowlers.
Gold cups have been promised to tho Murrnm-
bidgee Turf Club by Mr. A. G. Jones for next veer, Mr.
J. H. Douglas and Mr. G. C. Loughman for 1883, aid
Mr. Frederick Chisholm for 1884. Tho value will be as
usual, £lOO.
The thousand yards’ swimming championship of
Scotland was, on 23rd September, a second time com-
peted for in the Dundee batts. R. Bertram won, in
17min. 6iec; H. Fox second, by eight seconds; A. Mol-
lison, the previous winner, third.
Mons. Lein, who won the aquatic amateur
championship, at Paris, on October 2, rowed in the late
Henley Regatta, and finished last in his tfial heat
behind Wild and Patterson, While Wild was after-
wards easily beaten ih the final heat.
The second of this season’s series of races in
connection with the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club were
sailed on Saturday afternoon, Tho contest for 16 feet
boats was won by tho Ettie. The miscellaneous race
was won by the Ethel by the handicap.
A match for .£lOO a-sicio was run on Saturday,
at Wagga, between Young Deceiver and Juggler, on the
Steeplechase course, eventuating in an easy win for the
former. A champion handicap of £35 was won by Gon-
zalo; Brian O’Lynn, second; Gamecock, third.
Glebe Rowing Club Regatta on 17th December.
Five events, with a race for maiden fours open to all
clubs. The club has added a new clinker outrigger to
its fleet, and another is being constructed by Donnelly.
Three new clinker,, sculling outriggers have been
ordered.
Mr. Thursby, of Waloha, won the Tamworth
pigeon match, 'scoring 18 out of a possible 22; Mr. Frank
Weston, second; Mr. Payten, third; and Mr. Young,
fourth. Afterwards, a handicap for a 44-gninea gun was
fired. Over twenty competed, and it was won by Mr.
J. Bryant, of Tamworth.
Some interest has been excited in racing circles
by J. Robertson, a trainer at Hamilton, backing a horse,
bred by himself, to beat any horse Messrs. Chirnside
ean find in all Victoria. The challenge has been ac-
cepted, and the race will be run in December, at tho
Hamilton races. It is probable the Messrs. Chirnside
will send Spinningdale.
The settling for Wagga was satisfactory. The
Turf Club paid over the following amountsJ.
Mitchell £355, W. Forrester £353, H. Bowler £243, J.
Keane (with the Cup) £230, C. T. Eoberds! £166, H.
Hoysted £lOO, P. J. M‘Alister £B3, J. Glee £4O, J. Hig-
gins" £5B, J. Gough £3O, J. Roberts £2O, W. Duffy £l5,
F. B’. Waters £lO, J, A. Dali is £lO.
The University-Albert match for the Holdsworth-
Gardyne Cup was continued on Saturday, and Jones and
Allen scored 215 runs before a wicket was lost. Fletcher
was very successful with his slows, securing six wickets.
Wright made 48 by splendid batting, and tho innings
closed for 328, which gave the Alberts 213 runs to win.
When time was called the Alberts had lost four wickets
for 107—Massie (68) and D. Gregory (8) being tho not-
out men,
All-England Eleven v. Newcastle Twenty-two.
The Eleven, 118-Ulyett 40, Selby 17, Sootton 11, Shaw
24, Pilling (not on) 16; and 75-Midwinter 22, Pilling
10, Peate (not out) 12. The Twentj-two, 70—W, G.
Smith 15, W. Tracey (hot oiit) 14; and ten wickets for
19—G. Webb 21, J. Bignell 13. Webb scored a fine
bowling average iu the second innings of tho Eleven.
The match between the English eleven and the
Northern District twenty-two resulted in a draw.
Scores: Twenty-two, first inning?, 113 -A. Bignell 22,
J. Bignell 12. C. Wyndham 17; second innings, 123
Anitin 43, Wyndham 13, Hammond 12, Barnes 11.
Eleven, fl<st innings, 157—Ulyett 53, Bates 42, Barlow
21, Scotton 10; second innings, ono out for 15, The
English bowlers secured fine averages.
Sandhurst (Y.) Races, November 23 and 24.
Epsoni Handicap t Lafpent T, Randal’ ion c. Sandhurst
Cup: Albyn 1, Odd Trick 2, Lotliair 3. Selling Hurdle
Rice: Monitor 1, Nora Creiui 2. Croesus, who cami
in first, was disqualified. Plying Handicap ; Wc stbury
1. GAlope and Bushman ran a dead heat for second
p’ace. Bendigo H.nidic .p : Afghani, Lotliair 2, Albyn
3. Steep’echase : Abdallah, the only horse, got round.
Selling totakes : Blintyre 1, Mallalla 2, Little King 3.
Despatches from Toronto, dated September 6,
are of a rather surprising nature. They state that
Hanlan, haying been twitted for withdrawing from tho
Toronto Rogatta, definitely announced his retirement
from rowing aithogether. So determined was he in
this step that he at once abandoned his proposed con-
testwith Wallace Ross, and drew the 200 dole, he had
depos.ted to bind the initch. Someof the papers make
very severe remirto, and even David Ward is said to
have asserted that Hiulan was in a 1 filnk.”
On t&e arrival in Ikew York of the tihief
members cf the Cornell crew (Mr. Shinkel travelling
home by himself) they were promptly interviewed,
and were uamanimons in declaring that they believed
Shinkel to be guilty of “ selling” the racr. On search-
ing his effects at Vienna they found largo sums of
money and a valuable diamond ring. They believe a
prominent aquatic supporter in Vienna administered
the bribe, which was stated to be 1500 florin?. Mr
Shinkel denies tho allegations made against him, and
says ha will institute lesdl proceedings to blear his
character. He accuses his erstwhile companions of
having drunk too much English ale during their stay in
England.
The Warwick and Carlton clubs, which meet
next Saturday for the Holdsworth-GardyneCup, had an
afternoon’s contest last Saturday on the Domain Ground,
resulting in a draw much in favour of the Warwicks.
Warwick, 113—Hiddilstou 11, Scanlon 15, liigg 27, Ap-
perly 27, M‘Donald 16. Carlton, eight wickets for 79
J. Davis 13, Wearue 19, Clayton (not out) 22.
The six days’ race, go-as-you please, projected
by John Ennis, was to lake place at Madison-square
Garden, New York, on 17th to 22nd October. The
prizes aro a £4O silver champion-hip cup and £3OO to
first, £l6O to second, £B3 to third, £4O to fourth, and
£2O to fifth; no competitor who fails to travel s'o miles
to receive a prize, and the cup not to be given unless
Vint’s record of 573 miles is beaten. The entrance-fee
was £2O. If those conditions were made for our
colonial long distance events, there would be no prizes
given at all.
Cleeland Cup matches. South Melbourne v.
East Melbourne. Scores: S.M.C.C, 141 (Blackham 32,
Cowpar 77,) and 124, (Blackham 13, Eosser 14, Slight
35, Cooper 16, Palmer 13). E.M.C.G. 135 (Grouhe 33,
Horan 21, Boyle 22, Boyle 22, Gordon 14, Hastings
16, Healey 11.) and 55 (Boyle 16, O'Hanlan 10).
Melbourne and Kew: M.C.C, 143 and 9 wickets for 221
(McDonald 69. Dickson 32, Edwards, (not out)s9),
K. 65 and 298 (Swift 113, Henty 45, Trnmble 38,
Lorimer 15, McMichael 14. Luioker 13). Eichmond
and Williamstown:; E.C.C: 394, W.C.C, 123 and 125.
We have heard more particulars with reference
to the mile race which took place on the Association
Ground, on Saturday week, between Lyons and Eichards.
These additional details, which come from a thoroughly
reliable source, are of a nature calculated to make the
public hair stand on end, and we'd gladly lay them
before our readers were we sure of a fair and square
show from an intelligent jury of our fellow-countrymen.
As we aren’t sure of this thing, we’ll let the public take
care of itself. By the way, we notice that the trustees
of the Association Ground, in view of the disgraceful
proceedings of Saturday week, have wisely decided to
allow no more professional pedestrianism on their run-
ning track.
Wagga Wagga Races, November 23, 24, and 25.
First day:—Sires’ Produce Stakes : Cambric 1, Loiterer
a. Treasure Trove 3. Selling Race; Bryan O’Lynn 1,
Game Cock 2, Johnny Crapaud 3. Wagga Cup: Mar-
tindale 1, Secnndus 2, Rainbow 3; time, 8 nin. 37sec.
Hurdle Race; Ethel 1, Sauga 2, Giimb-up J Maiden
Plate: The Exeter 1, Outlaw 2, Anglesey (j. Second
day—Derby: Birthday 1, Outlaw 2. Two-year-old
Handicap: Jessie 1. Era 2, Anglesey 3 Handicap
Gipsy ( ooper 1, Honesty 2, Kightnare 3. Flying
Handicap : West Country Dick 1, Gonzalo 2, Dictator 3.
Third day—Mile Handicap: Miibrcdala 1, West
Country Dick 2, Eva 3. Two-year-old Selling Plate:
Gretna Green 1, Engenie 2, Loiterer 3. Steeplechase :
Young Deceiver 1. Maritana 2, Climb up 3. Substitute
Stakes: Gipsy Cooper 1, Rainbow 2, Milbrodalo 3.
Pinal Flutter: Gamecock 1, Bryan U’Lynn 2, Jem
Ty son 3.
The excitement in yachting circles in New York
oyer the tictoties of the Scotch ynchQ Madge, con-
tinues. She vfrofi five races ih succession, and at last
accounts was matched against a mttch larger vessel,
tho Paiiita, for ICOO dollars a-sido. This is how tho
Spirit or the Trass spetkr of the events: —‘‘The
little Sc'toh cut ter y acht Madge, w hich recently ar-
rived in New Voik City, provi ktd much unfavourable
comment on her first appearance in American waters,
but there is just now ‘so much laughing o» the back
seats.’ A eerie.; of races was arranged. Tuesday the
Madge ran awav from the Schemer, Wednesday tho
cafily beat the Wave, and Thursday, as we go to press,
she is sailirg against tho Mistral. Of course, wo have
a deck-load of excuses. The Schemer had a shameful
suit of sails, and the captain of the Wave, when almost
a sure winner, itupidly ‘ broke tacks ’ and lost. But if
tho owner of the Schemer was dissatisfied with her
fails, he knew where to find bet; er ones, and the captain
of the Wave was net a novice sailing his first race.
Our craftsEtefi should dfowa their excuses, frankly
acknowledge their defeat, and—t r.y again." [The Madge
easily defeated the Mistral.—ED. B 1
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Last week, in a jumping match at Bulli, for .£lO
aside, between Wade, of Appin, and Lild’o, of Bulli, tLo
former covered 103 feet 8 inches in fen consecutive
jump?; whilst the latter, in tlree at tempts; came wittiu
ll incutS o! that distance A Silver cup, valued at
seven guineas, presented bjr Mr; Cbeadlo of the
Cricketers’ Arms Hotel, Wol’onsohg, feir a handicap
quoit match, was won by D Mitcbison, against sixtdeil
competitors, on Saturdav week. The articles of agree-
ment provide, however, that the winner pf the cup must
hold the same for 12 mouths against all local comers I e-
fore it becomes his own property, and a match has al-
ready been a’ranged between the present holder and a
district “ wielder of the rings” for a handsome tro-
phy and a sum of money At Micalago, John Hayes
and Bernard M'Ternsn raced 100 yards for £5 aside.
The former, who got live yards start, won easily
Picton v. Campbelltown resulted iu a victory for the
former in one innings with 9 runs to spare. This was
the first match for (he new Challenge Cup Sports at
Campbeltown on Boxing Day Eidgowny is the
favourite for the Derby sculling rnee at Longford (Tas.)
regatta. He has long been connected with aquatics, and
steered an Oxford University representative crew when
a boy Inverell v. Bingera was won by the latter by
seven wickets. Inverell men rather sore about it.
The Bingera bowlers were too well on the spot
Mr. Fiu'ayson has joined the Glebe Rowing Club Tho
Mercantile RotWng Club are having a new string-test
gig built by Donnelly. She is to be the “ demon of the
Seas.’* The jockey, Dodd, who diedfrom the effects of
the accident met with at Flemington, leaves an aged
mother and a helpless sister, who were dependent upon
him for support, A subscription list has been started
by Mr. Howie The Geelong and Western District
Fish Acclimatisation Society icooived during the last
year 50; 0 salmon trout, and 5000 brown (rout ova ; and
about 5000 young fish have been liberated in various
streams in the Geelong Western District, Qippslaud,
and W immer.i A hurling match took place on Satur-
day at Goulburn, botz ean teams of Irishmen and Aus-
tralians, resulting in a victory for the latter A match
for £lO took place on Saturday on the Litbgow race-
course, between Mr. Silk’s Nimrod and Mr. Grant’s
chestnut filly, the former winning by a neck after a good
race National v. Albion C.C. Albion 50 (Flynn 21,
Griffiths, net out, 18); National, 6 wickets for 89
(Carroll 19, Dutton 16). The National has not been
beaten this season It is said that Uliyotfc, tho
cricketer, intends settling inN.S.W The case against
Goode, the j ockey, for ill-treating tho horse Lightfoot,
in the Morphetville Steeplechase, was dismissed.,..,.ln
a cricket match. Bohemians v. Brighton, at Brighten
(Vic.), on the 19th November, Mr. D. Wilkie took tho
whole 10 wickets for 39 runs The Cootamundra C.C.
played the Toss team for tho Coman’s Cup, at Yass, on
Saturday, defeating them by 25 runs Maybury, of
tho Parramatta team, has been selected to attend tho
practices for the intercolonial and international cricket
matches.
# # #
In a game between Newport and Cardiff, Sept.
2, John Williams took six wickofs in Cardiff’s first
innings without a run, and four in the second for five
runs, all being clean bowled H. S. Dame took all ten
of tho wickets in a second-class match. Sept. 3, and also
put the hall clean between the stumps twice within a
few minutes without removing tho bails. The reason
is said to bo that the ground-man had measured tho
width between his stumps with an old ball An old
man, named Jesse Halsey, while watching a game at
Wingrave, Sept. 8, was struck behind tho car with the
ball. Ho fell, and died almost immediately Bolden,
an American yachtsman, challenged P. Loiiilard, the
famous American sportsman, to a 1000-milo ocean match
with his yacht, the stakes to bo £2OOO. Lari Hard
declined A homing pigeon recently, in the United
States, for a big prize, flaw 470 miles Tne swimming
match for the championship of England is raid to have
been a swindle. Jones, the Leeds man, did not swim
up to expectation, and narrowly escaped lynch-law.
Mick Simmons’ Tobacco-Box.
The subject of our illustration is tho establishment of
Mr. M. Simmons (or, cs ha is better known, Mick
‘Simmons), i ndoubtedly tho People’s Tobacconist, and
proprietor of 44 The Tohacoo-bcx,” which is situated
at the junction of G.orge and Campbell streets, im-
mediately opposite the A.J.S. Bank, Haymarket, being
a portion of tho Corn Exchange buildings, and well
known throughout tho length and breadth of the city,
and, for that matter, the whole country, as the estab-
lishment par excellence where the weed, in all its
varieties, may be obtained of such quality and at such
prices as to make it really 44 worth the money.” The
proprietor—the worthy Mick—whom people will re-
collect some years since as a very humble individual, in
circumstances equally humble, but who is now as well,
known as, we’ll say, slme of our G.M.G.’s, or tho
Milburu Creek martyrs—has achieved for himself and
his Tobacco-box a reputation of which any man might
be proud, having from small beginnings so conducted
his business, as now to have a ready money counter
trade certainly second to norm in the city in his lino
of business. Tho success which has attended Mick’s
business has not been occasioned by any slice of luck,
or set of fortuitous circumstances, bub is the outcome
of a careful, diligent assiduous endeavour to cater for
tho smoking portion of the community the best article
procurable at a minimum profit, to effect which he has
continually been on tho alert to obtain from tho local
manufacturers such goods as could be relied upon for
quality—in addition to which he has caused the
American market to bo ransacked, aisd has succeeded
in obtaining exactly the descriptions of weed to suit the
popular taste. These endeavours have been responded
to by an appreciative public, who have rallied round
and supported Mick as the pioneer of million prices
for good tobaccos; and although, as we understand,
several imitators have recently come into the field, they
are imitators at a distance. Anyone having occasion to
proceed along Georgc-street westward on a Saturday
night, may observe near Mick’s shop a large concourse
of people of all ages and both sexes, crowding together
in a fashion likely to induce reminiscences of tha ant-
side of a London theatre on the afternoon of Boxing
Day, with the crowd waiting for the doors to open for
tho pantomime. Were the stroller to enquire what the
crowd waited for, the reply would probably be, 44 Surely
you must be a stranger in this neighbourhood, or you
would know that these people are Mick Simmons’s
customers, waiting their turn to be supplied with his
‘ Can’t B Beat ’ Tobaccos. It’s a regular thing Satur-
day nights!” There can be no better illustration of
the success which surely attends the persistent efforts
of a tradesman in the right direction than in the case
of Mick Simmons. He has made his success, or largely
contributed to it; tho public, in whose interest he has
laboured, have done the rest. ;
Sydney Business Establishments:
MICK SIMMONS’ TOBACCO BOX, HAYMARKET, OPPOSITE THE A.J.S. BANK.


FBURN DOWNS ESTi
G
REAT CLEARANCR
RESERVE.
s
ATURDAY, 17th DECEM
GROUND
E
VERY ALLOTMENT Ml
T
ITLE,
TORRENS’. TE
as befor:
JJATT, RODD, AND PURJ
C
ASH PRICE LIST OF WII
SPIRITS.
Claret
Hermitage ...
Shiraz
Burgundy ...
Sweet Shiraz
COLONIAL WII
RED.
per doz.
... 9s Od
... 10a Od
... 11s Od
... 12a 6d
... 13s Od
J.T. i
Adelai
(rich
tj
Reisling
Hock
Madeira
Bonffler'a Pineau..
WHITE.
9s Od
10s Od
11s Od
15s Od
Brown
Musca
Adelai
Tokay
FOREIGN WIN]
Good Port ... 24s to 36s Od I Good I
Champagne from... 60s 011 Frencl
SPIRITS.
At Grafton, last week, two boys, aged 10 and
12, were charged with plucking fowls alive and saiding
them back to their owners. They were each sentenced
to 11 days’ hard labour, and seemed to thoroughly enjoy
tho joke. It’s difficult to say what hard labour can be
found for the younger of the pair, who is not above
three feet high.
The square thing is Avoca. It is sloping
towards the ocean, so that evoryh cdy who wants to
get hold of a hit, should hurry up before it slopes
altogether. The streets are sixty feet wide and as
long as you like. The allotments are 135 feet deep,
which is almost as deep os a corrupt politician. Mills,
Pile, and Gilchrist insidiously invite people to go out
there on Saturday rext, ani then propose to make
a clearance on the ground. They will explain.
The celebrated Royal Blend Whisky is now
fairly on the market here, ihe agents being the well-
known firm, Messrs Gilchrist, Watt, and Company.
There can be no doubt the Boyal Blend is a marvellous
production, and is already as mijgh sought after for
private use, as for hotels, &3. It is sold in bottles and
handy little jars, the trade marks on which are a com-
plete safeguard agaimt imposition. The Boyal Blend
Whisky has a bouquet as in fine old matured wines.
Great activity amongst the sewing machine
companies. It appears that the Australian market has
been flooded with counterfeit imitations of the world-
renowned “ Singer,” of interior construction and manu-
facture, under various names which, by the way, were
very pointedly referred to in the judges’ report on the
Sydney Exhibition And so the Singer Co. have gone
on the war-path, and have opened sub-depots in New-
castle, Bathurst, Goulburn, Tamworth and Grafton.
The chief denot for New South. Wales is at No. 1 Dar-
ing stores, Harboi r-street Sydney. Latest bettingi
1,D00,0j0 to 1, on “ Signer.”
Mr. Johnson, in his “ Chemistry of Common
Life,” pointed out that Cocoa had long reached the
consumer with too much of its own fat, or leaded with
a variety of farinaceous substances, producing a soup
rather than a beverage The cocoa-bean affords
admirable nutritive fl’sh-formin? qualities and staying
power. In Cadbukt's Cocoa Essence these are re-
tained and concentrated, providing an exhilarating in-
fusion, not a starchy soup. " Warnings to House-
holders.’’— Adv.
“Can You Swim?” —Professor Cavill, the world
renowned swimmer, will undertake to teach any one to
fwim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths ai e romantically situated on
the North Shore, the water being beautifully pure.
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
bath, and be back within the hour. Bcturn boat faro,
including bath, 6d. Open for ladies every morning from
10 till 1, and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5.
Ad vi.
SOCIAL.
Tho Yorick Club, Melbourne, which from an
intellectual as distinguished from R purely social point
of view, is by fat tho most influential a' sociitiou in these
colonies, derives its name, not, as has been generally
supposed, from the jester J n “ Hamlet,’ but from the
curate in the “Trittran ‘ ha .dy" of Sterne, of whom
Marcus Chirko, tho fir.-' seer tary of the club, was an
ardent admirer. It wa poor Marcus who gave the club
i*s name —than wtict it would be hardly po.-fcible to
find a more felicitic f app -nation. Among the original
members were A'’im L adsay Gordon and many other
celebrities, not c few of whom have since j lined the
great majority. 'J ho Forick, at which literary and pro-
fessional visitors from Sydney and elsewhere are always
accordel a hearty welcome, owes much of its success to
th o efforts of the present committee, who, headed by
the genial secretary, Mr. William M’Kinley, are daily
adding to its resources in a marvellous manner Tho
club is the only one at which such men as Charles
Matthews (who made one of his happiest speeches at a
dinner given bfflieath its roof), Anthony Trollope, Pro-
fessor Prcctor, and other distinguished reprerentativea
of literature and art, could fitly be entertained, and it
is perhaps the only place in Aus ralia to which more
wealth alone will not secure ad miss o i.
•’ * *
It will be remembered that some years since a
sou of a prominent Government official oioped with and
married a daughter of a well-known Jewish citizen.
The wrath of the bride's father was. however, appeased
when the gentleman submitted to the orthodox process
of conversion. _
• • *
Mr. Allen P. Wo%fc, professor of dancing,
marked the close of his present sjvson by giving a
Cinderella pmty last Thursday. The attendance o.
pupils from the various schools and classes under his
tuition, together with a few of their friend*, was large
enough to comfortably fill the Masonic Hall. Vocal
music was interspersed during the evening, Miss Lent-
ball Mrs Rosp, and Messrs. Lamb and Kionimont
trilling pleatantly. Among tho decorations were lines
of small nautical flags of all colours, which were novel
and cay Dancing commenced eaily, finishing about
midnight, according to Cinderella rul s. Though fancy
dresses were absent ((xcept a sailor and a judge), some
of tho ladies’ costumes deserve noticing. A lady,
whose husband is in the Civil Service, wore a beautiful
and costly blue. A white, trimmed with pale pink and
broad blue diagonal across the skut, looked well on a
blonde girl. A lady and her daughter from Surry
Hills nr'at be specially mention'd, because the lady
wore such an exquisite satin, shading from rose-pink to
ocri f e with snow-white lace draped ronnd tre skirt;
and because the dcmoisille in unrelieved white, was-
te use “plain Englhh a biaatifal girl. From a
ladies’ school at Glebe Po nt, a stately brunette ap-
peered iu creamy-pink satin with tram, and whitest
of flowers in darkest of hair; while from a Hunters
Hi 1 "chool came a lady in an elegmt black cos-
tnrae Tho wife of a Woollahra doctor, iu cense
and white, was decidedly charming. A young
ladv in light piok bodice, white skirt, and real
ivvalso another in nil white and white lace, looked nice.
The sister of a Glebe Point, druggist was in rich sage
green, or a shade paler, and a teacher from Lady Rlur-
ray s school tall, was garbed effectively in white
trimmed with very light blue The light yellow and
blue worn by the sister of a financier was extremely
tiateful A blonde with sun-kissed hair was in blue
satin covered with real Maltese lace. From Riviere
College c?me two dainty little blondes; cue in a light
dress and pink cording, whose waltzmg with ho pro-
fe aor was perfect poetry ; and the other in sky blue silk,
who looked like au (scapeo from the limitless azure of
the heavens with some of their canopy for her r ament.
The wife of a Surry Hills builder was apparelled in
amber satin and black lace. Very pretty, indeed, was
the maiden with short black hair, in a warm pink Two
riders teachers, were in white and tnrletan; and from
a Bnndwick ladies’ school came pure white trimmed
with black Tho tall daughter of a doctor, in white and
pink plush, danced beautifully; while a stylish Pad-
dineton girl, in blue, with short, hair, who trains young
Australia in a Waverley establishment, and a slender
b'onda in a straw-coloured and broad band of blue, were
both admirably adapted to kill at twenty yards A lady
of amiditude, with an uncommon name, was in brightest
green The department of the company was noticeably
good.'uprightness of carriage being insisted on by Mr
West. Auotbcr principle bo adopts is to pet
his guests thoroughly “mixed up,’’ si that all
are soon at ease Light refreshments were spread
under the gallery, and tho music suited well. The new
Oiu-eu Quadrilles were tego’mlod, aid differ materially
from ordinary ones; indeed, all the square dances
taught bv Mr. West vary in detail from the sets as
ordinarily danced in Sydney. One of the dmces was
set apart as what is called “ladies choice ; _ that is
tho fair ones enjoyed the inestimable) privilege of
naking while the gentlemen graciously accepted-of
course’it would bo impossible to decline. But, if not
asked iustconciive tbo feelings of a gentleman wall,
flower under snob circumstances! However, the choice
was not exercised to any large extent, for the lad-os,
with that sweet perverseness which renders them so
M arming! and yet so dreadfully intractable, didn’t ask.
Thev “smole” gently at one another, and clung
together in small groups, apparently for protection
from their own awful i esponsibihty. In a few cases,
nerhaus of great favourites, a surrepti ious smile
might have been bestowed upon some happy gentleman,
Zd something like a compromise effected, bnt we did
not see any direct requests “for the pleasure fti. At
anv rate, no one asked us. It was an ordeal at which
we still shudder. Wo sat with drooping lids, blushing
almost audibly, and twiddled our fingers and tugged at
“ kids iu a vain semblance of self-possession, but she
never came to relieve our palpitating heart. Distress-
ing as it was, it might have been worse; imagine the
notation of a popular roan, say a prince, and the frac-
tional subdivisions of his person that would have to be
made to satisfy all admirers! It s really au advantage
Jo be Plain sometimes. Tho evening passed pleasantly
Jm all and—we had almost omitted it—it was, of
course enlivened at regular intervals by the usual
small speeches for which tho professor is known to have
such a fondness.
* * *
A ball was given on the steamer Tambora last
waek and was successful; bunting and Chinese lanterns
very ’pretty. Provider© of the vessel catered, aud a
break-up was made at 2 a m.
» * •
The Pennant Hills people are still lively. There
have been further festivities, and still there’s more to
follow.
* • •
A large and fashionable assemblage at Burgh
House Moore Park, last Thursday evening. Tho place
beautifully decorated with palms, evergreens, and
flowers inside, fliga aud Chinese lanterns entside
Some handsome dresses worn. Tbo most consph n ius
were • black velvet, white satin trimmings, and silver
f iuge- blue satin, pearl beading, aud fringe; pink
satin ’and cream lace; brown satin and old gold
pipings • blue cashmere and satin trimmings ; cream
cashmere with cardinal satin irimmmgs. Good music,
and dancing until an early hour iu the morning, and
after sipping “ sweet nectar “ from many sources, this
party of plsasure terminated.
« • •
A whisper comes along.
Of another man gone wrong ;
Yes that’s the news our little birdie tells—
’ That a Sydney banker fond
Is to join in holy bond
With the fairest of tho fair Wyraliah belles,
» ♦ •
Oddfellows’ hall at Casino on the 9th Nov.,
i a ] ar go number present ; dancing till daylight, to
ti.a music of the local string band. Young lady in
white with very dark eyes, voted the belle.
• • *
An ex-merchant at Casino, who has hitherto
1 apu impregnable, has capitulated at last. Tho attack-
ir? party was a very popular young lady, who was
i r-Mosmaid to a sister only a week or two back.
« # *
Items from Kiaraa : —Bachelors’ ball in Tem-
* anco Hall, 21th Nov. ; desolation and despair among
I’,' 1 bachelors, as the prettiest and jolliest of girls has
,"J forbidden by the doctor to dance ; meeting of the
“ CC m>ih classes” lo form Jockey Club; rifle corps to
b revived, 60 names down. Certain gentlemen or.
rather irritated at the way in which they were miragei
by a visitor He offered at a picnic to see about the
supply of drinks, and did so ; and everyone thought
him a nice agreeable fellow to take so much trouble;
but on calculating the sums he collected from the
various gentlemen, and comparing with the jiquor bill,
the generosity was not so apparent. He did cot wait
to be congratulated on the success of his mac oeuvre.
mm*
On the first Thursday in December, the young
men of St. MickV, Surry Hills, are to have a social
evening—conceit, curios, and comestibles. Mull and
his opponent have agreed to'bury the hatchet, and as
the yonng men are to settle for the tickets beforehand,
the evening will probably be peaceable.
• • •
An amicable understanding has been arrived at
in the lawn tennis clnb, at Penrith. As the lady from
the private school has retired from work, the lady from
the public school can now t o in and play. It was a
fearful dilemma recently, but now the club again
breathes.
• • •
A lady who went to a ball a£ Townsville lost a
shoe, acd advertised for it. Next day she received
eleven anonymous shoes, varying from “largo child’s ’ to
a pair of men’s Oxfords, size 12. and nearly every one
was accompanied by a note hoping the “shoe enclosed"
would fit. Whenever that fair lady walks abroad now,
she fancies every one is looking at her, and the next
time she loses a shoe she says she will buy a new one
instead of advertuing.
• ♦ •
The floor of a new ballroom at Toorak has
recently been fitted with india-rubber springs, which
will be the first introduction of this contrivance in
Victoria. Sydney is a little ahead in this matter, as
Mr. Needa’s floor was thus fitted five or six years
ago.
#. « «
Few couples celebrate the 60th anniversary of
their wedding, as Mr. and Mrs. S. Solomon did in Mel-
bourne last month. Ha was 92 years of age, and she 78
Dr. Jacobson proposed the ht alth of the “ bride," who
out and distributed the cake among her descendents to
the second and third generations. The 60th is called
the diamond wedding.
* # »
A lady describes a new waltz, which has been
introduced at home; she does not say in what class of
society it is practised. It is done as follows: *’ The
gentleman encircles his partner with his right arm, not
around her waist, but just below her shoulders. With
his left hand he clasps her right, and holds it on bis
left hip. This brings her exceedingly close to him, and
she is kojt snugly in that position, because if he docs
not, have a strong bold of her, he cannot take her
safely through the dance. She literally sticks her nose
into his breast or shoulder." This lady is a little be-
hind the fashion, surely. This style is not new. Let’s
see —" gentleman” puts right arm around lady’s
shoulders —holds her hand on his hip—brings her
exceedingly close—she sticks her nose into his breast
why, there’s nothing new in this. We distinctly re-
member seeing this style somewhere. We cannot say
exactly where, but we recollect the date: it was
Boxing Day. Our describee goes on to say, “A few
years ago, when hoops were worn, such a dance would
not have been modestly possible." It is, of course,
quite modestly possible now. The point has been de-
cided in Sydney. If anyone denbts it, wo can go and
get a jury tomorrow to say it is a perfectly moral
dance.
• * •
Bachelors’ dance in Temperance Hall, Kiama,
last Thursday, was very enjoyable; Indies catered rni
supplied music, oud did exactly half the dancing.
Several “ sprees " coming on at Christmas.
• • •
Congregational bazaar lately, at Windsor, in
the new schoolroom was good. A little incident be-
tween a brunette and a city youth, of which more anon.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. William Steirae, of Sherwood,
celebrated their silver wedding on Tuesday week. Largo
company, marquee specially erected, decorated with
ferus and flowers, music to dinner, speeches, and danc-
ing till 5 in the morning.
• * •
The Stores Department annual picnic takes
place on Monday next, the 3th December.
• « «
A well-known family of amateurs in Newcastle
arc going to play “ Married for Money." They have
been trying it for a long time past.
• * «
The Mendelssohn Quintette Clnb are in Newcas-
tle. The local curlpaper has an awful job to get the
titles of their pieces printed so that people will recog-
nize them.
• • •
0n Tuesday, 28th November, the new Town
Hall at Liverpool was Mr. Scrivener, the
Mayor, at 0 pm., after which *a boll was hold. Mr.
Scrivener said that Liverpool is not quite so sleepy now
as it used to be. This is good news. He described how
the new building came to bo erected, by several wealthy
residents starting the thing in the first instance by
giving a shilling each to the bellman to cry a public
meeting round the town. It took them some time to
recover from that extravagance; but the hall was now
built—at a cost of JE1500; and one comforting reflec-
tion was that there was no “history” connected with
it, as there was with some similar edifices elsewhere.
A silver coffoa service and an illuminated address were
then presented to Mr. Scrivener by Captain Sadleir.
Alderman Millar puzzled out the address. It was pretty
hard work for him, but with the assistance of Alderman
Pearce, who gracefully held a candle up to all the diffi-
cult words, he stuck at it till he pulled through. The
Mayoress, who was in black, with white lace and cap,
retusned thanks personally; and Mr. Haigh was then
thanked for his gift of a piano. He replied in a burst
of eloquence that reminded people more of dear old
Cicero than any other speaker has for many omturies
During these ceremonies the hall was occupied by the
“ general public” of Liverpool, and a most motley crowd
it was; but, at the conclusion, the floor was cleared
for dancing, which commenced after 10, to tbe music
of the Cumberland Band. The heat was terrific—must
have been 90 deg.—until a storm cleared the air.
Among the best dresses were those of Mrs. Millar, in
ruby and sky-blue silk; V rs. Gray, a recent bride, with
a charming face, in a rich lavender silk, trimmed with
same colour satiu, elaborately puffed, and white wreath;
Miss Makin, ns Flower Girl, in white, with large single
flowers, and a floral string diagonally over the front of
the dress. A fair lady, in a light dcru material with
satin front and a long train ; also Miss Skipper (Parra-
matta), in pink sateen, finely puffed, looked well. A
local belle. Miss Hartge, appeared as a Girl of the
Period, all in pink, with modish hat, and vis admired
for her dross and dancing. Mi- s Plant, in blue covered
with madras muslin, was extremely pretty. There
were two Footballers, a first-class Sailor, a Huntsman
from Parramatta, and a Brigand (Mr. Pickersgiil)—the
last presenting a truly remarkable appearance. One of
the best dancers was a local lady, in cirdinal and black,
with a by no means ethereal figure. Miss Thomson,
from Sydney, was very graccfu l , in tlick, and white
lace. A nice little blonde was in white tarletan, with
filmy pink trimming. The Queen of Hearts had a
black velvet polonaise with red satin hearts on it, a
fringe of large hearts hanging all round tho bottom, point
downwards, and the short arms also finished the
same way. Tho skirt, of gleaming white satiu.
had red satin hearts on it, aad the lady
looked every inch a queen. Three Misses Pearce were
nicely dressed ; the eldest as a Gipsy, Miss Emily as
Je'sio Brown (from the “Siege ct Lucknow"), and Miss
Mar/ in blue with loi g train. Tbe most popular
dress was certainly that of Mi*s Barr, who was
a Jockey, black skirt, blue be dice and cap. A
whip was carried in tho hand, and frem the
lady’s “eff-sido” hung a stirrup iron. In fact, the
extraordinary get-up. altogether, made it difficult to
determine whether tho Jady was representing a jockey
or his steed. When this gay damsel started to dance,
and the whip went one way and the stirrup the other,
things in the vicinity assumed a verv lively aspect.
A lively brunette was in black and blue; Miss
Ashcroft in blue, with silver flowers and pearls ; and
little Miss Scrivener in white, with daisies in her fair
hair. Mr. Mason was Kyrle Daly, and ilr H. Hamil-
ton (Parramatta), Beamish McCool, from “ Arrah na
Pogue." There were several local relocated warriors
and other character?, altogether about 150 present.
The City C itering Ce. supplied necessaries, and the
ball broke up a bro d daylight.
# # •
A very fashionable party gathered at St. Mary s
Church, Hawthorn (Vic), on the marriage of Mi-s
Maggie, daughter of Sir John O’Shanassy (owner of
the well-known Moira Stations near Dcniliquin), to Mr.
John Shanahan. The ceremony was imposing, and
lasted four hoars. The bride was in a maguificeut cos-
tnme of cream satin, honitou lace and flowers; and the
bridesmaids —Miss Grace O’Shanassy, Miss Fitzgerald,
Miss Jennings of Sir Patrick}, and Miss
Perkins, of Q leensland,—were in pink satin and flower?.
Mrs. Jennings was in superb peacock blue. A choice
repast was provided at Tara, the residence of the
bride’s father.
# # *
That suburban marriage has come off. The
happy pair have a grand start in life —the dashing
widow having brought a nestful. He is only 21, but the
has had lots of excellence. However, long life, &3.
•‘ * *
A Burwood doctor marries, in February next, a
daughter of the house of Lear month, Dickinson, and
Co. Grand preparations. We ourselves arc preparing
an ode.
• * *
Grand complimentary concert at St. James s
Hall, Forest Lodge, on Monday night.
# # #
Wednesday evening, the 23rd ultimo, witnessed
one of the most successful gatherings of the season,
the occasion being a jnvenpe entertainment given by
the Mayoress of Sydney (Mrs. John Harris). Shortly
before 7 o’clock the young guests began to assemble,
and were nsherod into their respecive rooms. Abont
half-past 7 the Mayoress (accompanied by his Worship
the Mayor, wearing his robes of office) entered the
vestibule, and took her place opposite the main er-
tranco a little lady ho I ding m ; nature flags (Union
Jack and Boyal Standard) s anding on either side of
her chair. The band played the Coronation March, and
the little ones marched up to the Mayoress in pairs,
branching off to the riglt and left into the corridors,
and again passed the MaTorees, about every sixth boy
carrying a bannerette. The proression was followed by
a polka and galop, which formed a pretty sight, many
of the dresses being very beautiful Immediately after
the dances a short play, entitled “ Li' tie Precocious,"
waa presented, which caused much amusement. Re-
freshments followed, to which ample justice was done.
Punch and Judy next claimed attention; then con-
juring, and the delight of children —the Magic Lantern.
The refreshment tables were again surrounded, ar.d
then came ill o’clock) the dreadtd “good night," all
sorry the entertainment was over, but not to be fo •
gotten—and with the hopo that it was not the last time
that they might ho the little guests of kiid-hoarted
Mrs. Harris. Mr, M. Younger presided at the piano,
and by his judicious selection of music added much to
the enjoyment of the evening.
LATE SPORTING.
Dunedin (N.Z) races, 29th November. St.
Andrew’s Handicap: Chancellor 1. Hurdle Race:
Agent 1 Port Augusta races. 29th November. Fly-
ing Handicap: Fieedom 1, Rita 2. Hurdles: New
Zealand 1, Freetrader 2 Tancred 3. Cup: Mesalliance
1, Brigand 2, Crystal 3 Selling Baoe : Orator 1. Welter
Handicap : Brigand 1 All-Eagland Eleven v. Twenty.
two of Orange. Eleven, 199; Barlow went in first and
carried his bat out for 61, Scotton 26, Shrewsbury 21,
Emmett 16, Ulyett 13, Midwinter 11. Twenty-two, 5
wickets for 9 runs Mr. Conway has formally protest d
against the charge of ten per cent, by the Victorian
Association for their patronage. A special meeting is
to he sailed to reconsider the question of per centagc,
and Mr. Conway is to say at onco whether or no the
team will play under the Association’s patronage
Hanlau and Boyd have not settled whether the pro-
posed race, in May next, shall be rowed on the Tyne or
Canadian waters. The steamer money, then, is
an important factor in th? whole arrangement
The entrance gates tor the Parramatta cricket match
realised £185; the booths, £11; cake stalls, £8; scoring
cards, £3 A petition has been presented to the Par-
ramatta Park trustees for a renewal of the lease of
the racecourse for ten years for the local Jockey
Club The double event betting on the Summer and
Tattorsoll’s Cup is 100 to 1 about mixed Goods, 100 to
2 the same horse for both events Secundus unlikely
starter for sometime Kent v. Oriental. Kent. 51;
Philpot, not out, 30. Oriental. 29. .....H0we, at Mait-
land, took five of the Englishmen’s wickets for 16 runs
Balmain Collingwood v. Young Princes, at Bal-
main, was won by the former bv two wickets Our
Boys v. Clio. Our Bays 90-Varley 20. Norman 18,
Hand 13, Dennis 13, Stafford 15. Clio, 7 wickets for
33—Abel 18 Our Boys v. Ironclad, on November
19. Our Boys C. C., 80. Ironclad C. C.. 19
25 nominations for the Glen Innes Cup and 25 for the
Handicap Mr. J. Swift, umpire, and Mr. E. C.
Weller, scorer, for the match Sydney v. All-England.
Fina' selection of team on Monday next The follow-
ing Victorian players have been ee'ected by Mir. H F.
Boyle, to practise for the next Intercolonial match:
Allm, Alexander, Blackham, Boyle, Bonnor, W. H.
Cooper, Coulthard, Edwards, Groube, Horan, M’Shane,
M’Donneß, Palmer, Slight, and Stokes Croydon v.
Oxford for the Thomson Junior Cup : —C.C.C , 57;
M'Carthy not out 13; Felton, 10 ; and 73 (Carroll,
10; O’Hara, 10; M‘Carthy, 10). O C C., 86 (Slattery,
15; Means, 26; M'Hale, 13); and 9 wickets for 45
(M'HaK 13) The Printers’ Regatta promises to be
unusually successful. Several additional prizes have
been received, and promises of others.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Renewal of Irish agrarian outrages Railway
collisions in Georgia, U.B . and at Dundee, Scotland;
heavy loss of life 30,000 Staffordshire potters on
strike Terrifl j4B hour storm on the English coast;
great loss of life Disastrous floods in Buckingham.
Turkey and Greece quarreling Russia preventing
settlement of English and French bondholders' affairs in
Turkey Bismarck, under anv circumstances, will
still continue to control the foreign policy of Germany.
Hon. Joshua P. Bell, President of the Legislative
Council of Queensland, created K.C.M Q Lefror’s
pistol found on the Brighton railway... . Baron Courcellea
is the French Ambassador at Berlin vice do St. Vallier,
who resigned on the formation of the Garabelti Govern.
ment Dockyard and chnrch at Sheerncss burnt
Systematic search for arms at Limerick London
Times says treaty stipulations prohibit Franca from
assuming a protectorate over the Austral and other
islands in the South Pacific .....Two horn es at Loughrea,
Connaught, burnt by incendiaries...... Farmer murdered
in County Down Sligo tenants refuse to accept the
Land Commissioners’ arbitration until “ suspects” are
set at liberty Castletown Lighthouse, Is'e of
Man, destroyed by a storm Imperial Prr'inment
meets 19th January Marquis of Hattington do.
plores in a public speech the unsettled state of Iri h
affairs. It was a cause of anxiety and disappointment;
outrages were rife, and the rights of property could
not be exercised without difficulty and danger. Govern-
ment would act, however, with unswerving firmness,
and with inexhaustible patience...... Russia and Turkey
amicably arranging the war indemnity Military dia
tnrbances in Anstria Attempt to assassinate the
Russian Minister for the Interior Attempt made by
means of a bajloon to destroy the Czar’s palace..,,,.
Additional Irish Land Commissioners appointed to
meet the increased work Hanlan and Boyd matched
for the championship on the Tyne Land League
municipal candidates rejected in Cork Conservatives
and Home Rulers supporting Sir Samuel Wilson for
Londonderry British Nzvy, bound for Sydney, fonn-
dered in the Down;; 20 lives lost Von Moltko re-
signed. .
A girl was burnt to death, the other day, at
Brisbane. The Codrieb thus ” Her clothes suddenly
caught fire, and being light, inflammable material, she
was soon consumed.”
Just as a trifling example of what the Inter-
national Exhibitions at Sydney and Melbourne have
done for the colonies, may be quoted the instance of
one firm of British manufacturers. Messrs. John
Fowler and Co., the great steam-ploughing machinery
makers of Leeds, exhibited largely, and hays since had
a representative to travt I through the colonies. This is
a Mr Walter Noakes,|who commenced (as might have
been expected) by ploughing the ocean, which involved
in the first instance some barrowing sensations. Having
thrown up everything, except his appointment, he
beicme accustomed to the furrows between the waves,
and was thenceforth as hardened as the working parts
of his firm’s machinery. While his zeal was new, he
natnrally was attracted to New Zealand. These islands
he filled with steam ploughs, and ha«l the authorities
been wide-awake they should have given him a Maori
war medal, for the steam plough is the surest conqueror
of native resistance Christchurch, Dnnedin, In-
vercargill, the Bluff, all fell under the snare
of the Fowler. Then followed Wellington, Wanangui,
and on to Auckland. In fact, not a settlement of un-
portrnco was left unvisited Next came Australia.
Sydney, Bathurst, Orangi (which he sucked dry), and
other country towns. Ihen a plunge to Townsville and
Charters Towe's—sugar p’antations and rqines the at-
traction On to Coo* town and the Pa'mer; thence
hack and down the coast to Brisbane; returning at Inst
to Sydney, after a little trip of 33,060 miles, all told,
since 1878—during the course of which road engines,
steam-ploughs, locomotives, portable railways, rolling
stock, mining machinery, and air compressors weie
sprinkled over the face of the country Messrs. Fowler’s
representative was never without a steam-p’ongh in his
wai«tooat pocket or a complete portable railway in his
carpet bag.


Business Anneun<
W Ht USE INFERIOR SE
The following list of E shibition
attestation of the superiority of
manufactured by
JONAS BROOK a;
MELTHAM MIL
near Huddersfield, I
THE ONLY - PRIZE 1
LONDON EXHIBITK
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS I
PARIS EXBIBITIO]
PRIZE MEDAI
LONDON EXHIBITIC
GOLD MEDAI
PARIS EXHIBITIO;
THE. ONLY DIPLOMA O:
VIENNA, 1873
MEDAL AND AW
PHILADELPHI
GOLD MEDAI
SOUTH AFRICA.
GOLD MEDAI
PARIS EXHIBITION
ONLY SPECIAL FIRS':
SYDNEY, 188(
Ask for BROOK’S COTTON fc
Patent Glace. Soft Cotton—Sir
G 1 io<?, in all colours.
All orders and correspondence f
New Zealand should now be addi
house, Wynyard-lane, Sydney, Nev
\ G. CHU R 0
SALT MERCHA
IMPORTER and MANU
of
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
SPICES, RICE, and
STEAM MILLS, WOOLI
OFFICE and STORES:—U7
SYDNEY.
URE CHINE
Messrs. QUONG TA]
Have much pleasure in aunotuu
opened at
800 GEORGE STREET,
(Opposite the Frond
AN AGENCY FOR THE
LOON SHAU
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co.
public approval Silks and General'
N.B.—Mr. QUONG TART has
a visit to China, where he in perso
mentioned Teas, so that their puri
INSPECTION INV
300 GEORGE STREET—SHOW ]
Near Hunter-stn
■
"
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED tho ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sowing Machines, at Sydney International, 1830.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agricultural
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Goulbnrn, Mndgee,
Singleton, Windsor, &c.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at Melbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.
Sole Agents,
674 George-stroot.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SON.
Jhe Universal Sewing
ACH I N E
Has Jilt, ktotimproTsmenls. Highly Sashed. Hsu, the Now Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Maohm, guaranteed. Self dosing Shuttle Booe. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at tbo Dcp6t,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
| ALL GOODS WELL MAKE. WELL SHRUNK
T TURNER ROBINSON and CO., '
** • MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, GEOEQE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1364,
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, LEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 13s 6d.
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
UA V E YOU
TO
R. MORPH]
233 Pitt Strei
Jg LISE’S PAPER CUT
All communications to bo at
“ ELISE,"
No. 12 PARK STREET, S 1
Six doors from George-s
Orders for Patterns cannot bo ex
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns
stylo, out, and finish, being modelled ft
Fashions, and are always sent per
receipt of stamps or money order.
KING STREET,
** 6 ' (two doors from Get
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Rourke—s
MADAME DEMOREST’S
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PAI
styles erery mail from Paris and K ew
Full directions and illustrations with
MADAME DEMOREST’S public*
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to w
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis,
MISS LOUISA HA
L6ll
(Near
madam;
Paper Patte
Mantles, et
sizes for I
ren furnisl
tions and d
ing up. Sc
ing from fi
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by pot
annum, post free. Catalogue
Patterns sent to any part of the c
of price and measure. Postage St
$3
S'
Address:
MADAME WEI
161 King-street, Syc'.n
A \
S 3
%\
*
’.7> ,
\m
KJ*>
ALLAN A, MARSHALL AND C O.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
<s—'
IB!
BEASSFINISHEES, COPPEESMITHS,
Plumbers anti Gasfitters,
BLACKSMITHS'.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
9 Macquarie Place,
\ [SYDNEY.
. This is tho most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences a,
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety- Stores, &c.; is
This GAS is much c’oaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properl v’mad« ;= i , ,
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to tho quantity of Tallow used i, f , from
m some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas ' wood fortll o furnace ;
to SScS? GAS With thiB APFAEATUS k US9d for Ushtin = tho Govomment Railways in preference
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR. CHANDELIERS, &c. Shipments Received monthly
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINBOW FASTENER
THE “PRODUCER"
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with,
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BAEBOW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TEESSfiS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
railing oil in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retell of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS..
PITT STREET.
C 3
F. T
STER
OTYP.
&
tm
' */if P RiN ™S’
MX 1 WAREHOUSE,
t** Hamilton St., Hunter SI.,
S'Y'TDTsrza-'sr.
70 LITTLE COLLINS STSS2T, MELBOURNE.
THOMAS WEAKNE,
ENGINEER & IRONFOUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY BOLLING STOCK
FLEE GIRDERS,
AND STOVES,
BUEGLAE COLONIAL
peoop OVENS,
SATES DEED
A ND VgSMgBP (BOXES,
DOORS; jc.,
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
PARLOUR STUDIOS.
The Really Popular (and cheap) PHOTOGRAPHER,
805 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the" Railway Terminus.
Especially esteemed for his portraits of Babies and
Children.
Cartes de Visite, 7s. 6d. per Dozen.
The "PENRITH ARGUS” will appear on
7th JANL ARY. W. WEBB, Proprietor.
D
A V I D M ‘ G A L L.
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his EoyAl Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, Hie
Excellency the Eight Hon. the Earl of Belmoro,
Mia Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
Jn Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus,
Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
THE Most PERFECT-PITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANNELL’S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 60/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
Shirt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN’S MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
M
BUT 8
XT'ISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
* ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for Self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Colony.


QLIFFORD, LOYE, AND CO.
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are in
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. ~ Peaberry
Do. „ Nob. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES :—79 YORK STREET
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
JOHN DA
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrre. Sanitary War#
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L SUMIKERFIELD,
TJ
ECONOMY IN CLOTHING.
—o—
SAVE 20 PER CENT. BY PROCURING
YOUR GOODS FROM THE
DIRECT IMPORTER.!
THE PEOPLE'S TAILOR.
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT
sent to any part of the country.
US' The particular attention of country resi-
dents is requested to this notice.
Any style of Garment made to Fit by using
SUMMERFIELD’S
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT.
235 PITT STREET,
Trousers 16s. 6d., 205., 255.
Suits ... JE3 35., JE3 lOs, £4 4s.
30CO PATTERNS TO CHOOSE FROM.
THE PATENT RIVETTED BUTTONS
ON ALL TROUSERS.
EVERY GARMENT THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
FIT GUARANTEED.
SYDNEY.
E. GREER AND CO.’S
P-R I Z E
ALBURT WINES.
Red Wines: White Wines
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbee
Roisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLARS:
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
ie Teems of subscription for The Bulletin mu—-hi
advance, per annum, 125.; half-year, 65.; quarterly,
Sb. ; booked, 6d. per quarter extra. Remittances may
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N. -t
ir by money order, payable to W. H. Traill and Co-,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
nted and published by W. H. Teaill tc Co., at
’he Bulletin office, 2i Pitt-street, Sydney, «•*>•
Vales.
MOST PLEASANT
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTER AND PARRY'S NEW EXTRACT
OF SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
best disinfectants. _
(MADE PURELY FROM INDIGENOUS
v PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pleasing smell, will not injure the'most deli-
cate hands, is the greatest time-saying of
labour, rendering any article cleansed there-
with of the purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Grocers and Storekeepers through-
out .the Colony, and at the
WORKS. 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
rosins
BSI
£
m
m
‘Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Medicines at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, Sc.
ATT. KINDS OP DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRIES.
Send tor a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forget the Address—
You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern's New Buildings.
&
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
664 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description. Masonic Jewels and Pre-
sentation Trowels designed and made on the
Premises,
DIAMOND SETTER!
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £25.
118
K
STREET
KING
SYDNE"
TAILOR
m
IFOV
hw
N
J
✓
°0
m POST OFFICE
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
LU
TO ORDER
FIT GUARANTEED]
fill HANDWORK.
’.WEST FASHIONS.
IST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1837. *
O W L E E’ S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
OAMPEEDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
389 GtORGt-Sli,
Sydney.
THE LEADING HOUSE IN THE IMPLEMENT & MACHINERY BUSINESS.
Sole Agents for the W. A. WOODS’ STRING-BINDER, with all improvements.
THE WOODS
String-binder
is quite SELF-
ACTING. A boy
will work the
WOODS’ MA.
CHINE SUC-
CESSFULLY.
m-
r
W. A. WOODS’ 1881 STRING BINDER.
THE WOODS has
Wrought Iron
ROAD WHEEL,
Wrought Iron
CUTTER BAE,
Steel Plated PIN-
GEES, and all the
1881 impro re-
gents.
THE WOODS IS A PROVED SUCCESS, NOT AN EXPERIMENT.
ucrs should write to us for all the IMPLEMENTS, MACHINERY, &c., they require. We haveth
i, and the Largest Stock in the Colony.
MARTIN and PAIN, 389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
H
Sift
.hunter-s.tSf.et.;; .
s I LVE WTC | es SYDNEY. 'C G OLQ 3
FROM dfe.4.10. SEND' FOR jC,. 3•10 .
. CATALOGUE.; * ■ • r
fJIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney.
TREY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TEY ONE. —"fi W <<-^-A'''''^FOE
C. E. WIGZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, f HAIR - CUTTING,
STAGE AND STREET WIGS,
n And. Ornamental Hair Work.
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
SYDNEY
OM
PRIZE
• AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOR
HERMITAGE.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PEE GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- per dozen,
SHIRAZ I Fruity
MADEIRA I YVines S h ” ”
Dry
BURGUNDY
RIESLING
IwinL } 2l/ ‘
■ G. H. STEPHEN & CO.,
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
WINES.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
&0., &c.
FRUITY WINES
6/-
PEE GALLON,
\ STANDARD .
m p: Re a o v-* maoe-s u i r s
Business
PROMENADE
'TrKVClIing
Q.UALITY yachting
Sj.T3 - S" Piemcintr
Durnhiliiy £ •
UNSURPASSED CTI CliC till g
C 3
m
o
CT
►d
t*
►d
H
" m
33
m
=3 5p
QC
co
-<
a
Price List Tor
First Quality Standard Tweed Suits
Extra do. do. do.
Superior do. do. do.
First Quality Standardßlue Serge
Extr do. do. do.
£1 12s. Cd-
-1 15 O
2 2 0
1 15 O
2 2 0
w
3
DAMP COURSE! DAMP COURSE!
w
HEN building 1 naa CALLENDER and SONS' Pare Bitumen Damp Course, ENORMOUSI
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than Slate and Cement.
DAMP RESISTING SOLUTION.
If yon have DAMP WALLS in your house, use CALLENDER and SONS’ SOLUTION, which ren-
ders them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can ho applied by any ordinary labourer.
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Chambers, 129 Fitt-street,
Sole Agent for N. S. Wales.
