

THE BULLETIN
Vol. B.—No. 9S.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1881.
Price—3d"
ip §ttlletk
SATURDAY, DECSMBEE 10, 1881.
A New Era.
The Scotch tenants have commenced on their
own behalf an agitation identical with that which
the Irish began afresh a couple of years ago. The
English will not be long before they also follow
suit. It is a truly instructive thing to observe
how those who had no word too bad to throw at
the principles contended for, when the Irish were
the pleaders, now countenance the same policy
when pursued by the Scotch. Take for example
the S. M.. Herald, which, at the outset, was
never tired of railing at the Irish, and of charac-
terizing their claims as communistic in tendency
and conception. While Irish communism was
horrible, unnatural, and wicked, Scotch com-
munism is rational and worthy of a respect of
language closely approaching approbation. There
is no blinking the fact that the claims advanced
by the Irish tenants, and to them in great part
conceded, are identical with those now echoed by
the Scotch tenant-farmers, and are in their
essence communistic, and part of the socialistic
propaganda.
* * *
Landlordism, as it exists in the old communities
of Europe, is a relic of feudalism ; and, based on
the same sham as the divine rights of kings to
govern badly, is rapidly hastening to the same
obliteration. When, during the earlier stages of
the Irish agitation, the Conservative Press at
home and in the colonies was anathematizing the
agitators, and justifying in anticipation their
repression and punishment by armed force, wo
took occasion to observe that, whatever might be
the disposition of tho British Parliament, com-
posed, as it is, mainly of owners of property, the
sympathies of the British people, as a whole, must
be with the aims of the Irish, because their chief
grievance was shared, albeit in a less shocking
degree, by the masses in Great Britain. We
have never been among those who doubted
whether the troops in the pay of the British
oligarchy could bo depended upon. Putting
aside a few regiments composed of Irishmen,
which would of course be sent to the ends of the
earth before actual operations in Ireland com-
menced, there seems every reason to believe that
the army would have shot down peasant-insur-
gents with perfect alacrity.
# * *
The combative instinct is still so strong in man-
kind, that if any body of men in whom the
fighting instinct had been, as in the case of trained
soldiers, sedulously nourished and fostered, were
brought face to face with any other body of men
in a combative attitude, they would attack them
with the same instinctive ferocity which stimu-
lates a game cock or a bull-dog when placed in a
pit with a strange cock or dog confronting it.
L ">nly an intelligent comprehension of personal
responsibility and of the effect of their action can
control and regulate their instinct, and the rank
and file of the British army is certainly not com-
posed cf moral or social philosophers. Besides
this, the influence of tho new social ethics have as
yet scarcely filtered down to the ignorant classes.
With the tenant-farmers the adoption of aims
that are part of a groat philosophic system, is rot
so much due to ap intelligent appreciation of the
theory as to a natural revolt against injustices
which they personally feel, and which that system
proposes to correct It is requisite to bear in mind
that the social and communistic theories have not
risen from bolow, but descended from above.
They are the fruits of the reflections of men of
the grandest intellect —men, the recognition of
whose greatness is merely deferred, as happened
in tho case of that great social reformer, Jesus of
Nazareth.
# * *
These new ideas, which have already radically
subverted the relations between land-owner and
tenant in Ireland, and which are obviously
destined to work an equal or even greater revolu-
tion in Scotland and England, have had to con-
tend with enormous obstacles. They have bad to
wrestle with the interest of the few and powerful,
and tho ignorance of tho many. As culture
attaches to wealth, and poverty has ever been held
in contempt, the best developed talents have been
enlisted on behalf of the favoured few, and the
advocates of the cheated many have been branded
with the stigma of disreputable affinities and a
contemptible cause. Everywhere dominant classes
have enlisted in their cause the aid of superstition,
and the influence of churchmen, bound in close
alliance with the powerful of the earth, has been
brought unreservedly to bear in inculcating prin-
ciples diametrically opposed to the spirit of the
Master in whose name they taught. From the
time that they could lisp, the children ef the peo-
ple have been taught that contentment in their
depressed and over-ridden condition is a virtue
pleasing to Heaven; and when, grown to manhood,
the bolder or more impatient spirits denounced
the artificial inequalities which made a well-born
fool owner of all he surveyed, divided the whole
territory of a nation among a few thousands of
patricians, and left for the remaining millions
not a rood of ground on which they could grow
food, nor a roof to cover their heads, the Churches
resounded with anathemas, and the priests thun-
dered the lie that injustice was the work of God !
# # #
It has long enough been considered impious and
disreputable to deny that the mischief which
makes so many countries hells, in which are alter-
nated the most licentious luxury and the most
appalling misery, is the outcome of human selfish-
ness and greed, working against the beneficence
of nature. The lie is becoming threadbare. The
printing press first began to chafe the surface off
it. Dissent in religion has done much to wear it
bare. So long as there was but one religion
possible for men in one country, and that religion
the humble servant of the ruling caste, the re-
former was outlawed at one and the same time, in
the eyes of lookers-on, by the powers of Heaven
and of Earth. Tho man who was tempted to
think broadly on social subjects, shrank back
appalled as he found that his reasoning brought
him inevitably into conflict with the religion of
his fathers, and the sweet lessons received at his
tender mother’s knee. To be a caviller at con-
stituted things was disreputable—to bo a dis-
senter in religion was not respectable, even to
within the last score of years. The uprising of
tradesmen—many of then Nonconformists —to
wealth, in England, has served materially to break
the spell. It is no longer a sign of irreligion to
doubt the divine right of anybody. And the time
approaches when he will no longer be regarded as
a dangerous character —an upsetter and advocate
of confiscation and spoliation—who dares to say
that artificial perpetuity of property in tho
hands of tho few, and idle indulgences enjoyed at
the cost of others’ Jife-long, weariness and travail,
are conditions which should and could bo changed.
# # #
; That the serf—the mere tiller of the soil—has
any rights at all, save barely to live and fill his
master’s purse, while his own stomach is mostly
ejnpty, is a doctrine which the Irish have forced
upon the notice of the British nation. The hard-
headed Scot—less under tho dominion of the
State-bought parson than his brother agricul-
turalists in England—has been first to turn the
lesson to account. But the Englishman will
follow, and doggedly work out the new inspiration
—as is his wont, once he gets hold of a thought—to
its utmost development.
# # #
As the Irish began, so the Scotch have com-
menced. It must not be forgotten that the Irish
tried simple agitation at fird. It was not till they
were mocked and denied, scorned, rated, and
threatened, that they threatened in turn, and their
oppressors gave in. If the Scotch were —which is
now unlikely—to have their appeals thrown in
their faces with the contumely and indignity which
were meted out to the Irish, it is little likely that
tho S.M. Herald would be able to continue its
complacent admiration of the Scotch, who are
only less fiery than the Irish because they have
not, like them, had for centuries to writhe under
the chafing of an intolerable foreign oppression
and religions exasperation. The descendants of
the old Covenanters and hot Highlanders are not
so tame as to submit humbly to have their just
remonstrances derided. If the Irish have scourged
landlordism with whips, the Scotch, under equal
provocation, would be likely to scourge them with
scorpions.
* * *
But there is now no likelihood that such provo-
cation will be ventured upon. The propertied
.classes could reckon upon the long inculcated
dislike to Irishmen, among Britons, in the case of
extreme measures, such as repression by force of
arms, being thought advisable. No British regi-
ment would march against Scotland in such a
cause; The ball has fairly been set rolling, and
tho eyes of Englishmen and Scotchmen alike have
at last been opened to the fact that those in-
equalities are not eternal or irremoveable which
have so lon<* divided tho nation into two castes, —
the caste who have all the land and none of tho
labour, and the caste which has all the labour
and none of the land ; the caste who live only to
enjoy themselves, and squander money earned by
others’ toil—and the caste who never can hope for
a_ moment’s leisure, and who are compelled to
yield up to their masters nine-tenths of the fruits
of their weary and hopeless travail.
Sir Joshua P. Bell. K.C.M.G.
In conferring 1 the dignity of knighthood upon tho
President of the Queensland Legislative Assembly,
Her Majesty the Queen has not only fitly recog-
nised tho dignity of the position, but has been
happily advised as to tho man. The colonists of
Queensland will hail the elevation of Sir Joshua
with hearty approbation. There are not in these
colonies many men as much esteemed and liked by
the people among whom they live, and there is
certainly not one more popular and respected than
the new knight. Of amiable disposition, courteous
manners, and liberal tastes, Sir Joshua Bell has
ever been a prime favourite with the Queens-
landers. Although a squatter, he has always
managed to maintain tho regard of the most
ardent liberal. His frank and manly temperament
has preserved him from those grasping and over-
bearing courses which have served in so many
instances to raise up class animosities. As tho
principal proprietor, with his father and brothers
as partners, of one of the most magnificent runs
in the famous Darling Downs, Mr. Bell necessarily
had to face the inroads of selectors. Under the
Land Act of 1868 half of his run, Jimbour, was
resumed and thrown open for selection, and a few
years later an additional area—the very cream o
the remainder —was similarly dealt with. For
many years, in fact, Mr. Bell’s run has been
studded with selections and over-run by selectors.
But at all times the best feelings subsisted
between the squatter and the selectors. For years
tho settlers on the Cumkillenbar Agricultural
reserve enjoyed free run for their dairy stock on
Mr. Bell’s leasehold, and' his purse and counsel
were ever at their service. The practical proof of
the good feeling that subsisted was that Mr. Bell
continuously represented in the Queensland As-
sembly the neighbouring town of Dalby, from the
year 1863 up to the time when, in 1879, ho accepted
the position of President of tho Legislative
Council. And it goes without saying that town-
ships in the vicinity of squattages are invariably
tho strongholds of all opposition to tho pastoral
tenant. Sir Joshua held office as Treasurer in
the Palmer Administration, from 1871 to 1874; ar d
although not a financier of brilliant parts, Lis
Budget statements were always clear, methodical,
and practical, and during his tenure of power a
deficit was converted into a surplus. As a patron
of the turf, Sir Joshua is well known. Although
not a betting man, he has done more than any
other man to improve the breed of horses in
Queensland; and from his stud at the Grange,
Ipswich, a Sydney Derby-winner and other young-
sters of the highest class have proceeded. fcir
Joshua Bell is married, and the father of several
children. Lady Bell was eldest daughter of the
late Dr. D’Orsay; of Ipswich, Queensland —a
gentleman of magnificent physique ; when young,
probably the handsomest man of his day. Sir
Joshua is a wealthy man, a hearty companion, and
a good fellow all round. Everyone who knows
him, or has had dealings with him at any lime,
will rejoice in seeing him the recipient of tho dis-
tinction just conferred upon him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Practical Protest.
The custom of applying moneys, procured for charit-
able purposes, to the junketting of officials charged with
the administration of Institution®, hae become in Eng.
land a crying iniquity. The bequests derived from pious
and tender-hearted donors are, in too many instances,
perverted from their original purpose, and tho income
which should go to support the needy, wretched, and
unfortunate, is absorbed in providing splendid salaries
and handsome accommodation for a herd of official.?, or
in defraying the expense of banquets, or of elective
struggles for the right to manipulate the funds. Mr
.Alderman Hordern has, on many occasions, made
spirited protests against tho disposition of tho funds
entrusted to the Directory of the Sydney Infirmary
He has made himself troublesome by the pertinacity
and downrightress with which he has criticised tfco
frittering away of some part of the resources of tho
institution in expenses quite foreign to the intentions
SIR JOSHUA P. BELL, K.C.M.G., PRESIDENT OF THE QUEENSLAND LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL.


HOP 8i T
ARE
THE PUEEST A 1
MEDICINE EVER
They are Compound*
Hops, Buchu, Mane; rake
The Oldest, Best, most B
Valt able Medicines inth
in addition, contain all
most effective curative pr
other Bitters, being the g
Regulator, Blood Ptjbiii
and Health Restoring Age
Ask your Druggist o:
Do not suffer yourself,
friends suffer, but use, am
use. Hop Bittees.
Remember, Hop Bitte:
drugged, drunken nostn
Purest and Best Medicir
and no person or family sb
out it.
VALHABI.3 TB
If yon are suffering fron
or languishing on a bed of
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will C
If you are simply nil in
Weak and Dispirited, wi
knowing why.
Hop Bitters Will E
If yon are a Minister, a
taxed yourself with your pi
or a Mother, worn out v
work, v
Hop Bitters Will E<
If yon are a man of
labourer, weakened by the
every-day duties, or a m
toiling over your midnigh
Hop Bitters Will Str<
If you are suffering fro;
or drinking, any indiscreti
tion, or ore young and gro
as is often the ease.
Hop Bitters Will E<
If yen are in the worl
farm, at the desk, aiiywh
that your system needs Cl
ing, or Stimulating, wit!
ting.
Hop Bitters is What
If yon are old, and your 1
impure, pulse feeble, yoi
steady, and your faculties
Hop Bitters Will Give Y<
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an eles
and refreshing flavouring 1 ]
drinks, impure water, &
them harmless, and swi
month, and cleansing the i
CLEANSE, PURIPT, AND EN
with
hop but
and you will have no sicknc
MOHTEPIORE, STU,
65 PITT STREET, SYDb
General Agents for A
VAN HAAGEN’S TO
* manufactured
BENJAMIN BROOKE & CO.,
U.B.A.
BEST, FINEST, AND (
FRENCH MILLED TOD
These soaps are made of the pun
and are unrivalled for
DELICACY OP.PEB
AND SUPERIOR LASTINC
Fine Rose
White Pond Lily
Prairie Bouquet
Oat Meal
Palma Rosa
Honeysuckle
Naples Bouquet, etc.
FOR TOILET, BATH, and N
POE SALE BY ALL C
The remaining portions of tl
Downs on the Suburban railway
auction on the 17th Dec. a* adver
and Purves.
In ordering another box, ono to
not omit to mention that there ia s
in your tea. It has lasted three w
same weight of the China tea >re u
verdict is the same in ovary* iustai
to given. The Calcutta Tea Asso
Teas are the purest, most palatal
mioal in the market. Ask your pro
Wholesale warehouse, 28 Chariot
rare selection of Indian onrios and
view suitable for Christinas preser
(Q HRISTMAS
CHRISTMAS PRE
A LARGE AND VARIED ASSOB
Next Thursday afternoon, 15th December, there
will be an interesting event at Ashfleld. Camellia
Grove is for sale, and the hour appointed is 5 in the
afternoon of the day mentioned. Camellia Grove is the
garden of Ashfleld, and has frontages to the very best
streets of Ashfleld, the wealthiest and most prosperous
of all our suburbs. The auctioneers are Messrs. Batt,
Bodd, and Purves.
Mr. Johnson, in his “ Chemistry of Common
life," pointed out that Cocoa had long reached the
consumer with too much of its own fat, or loaded with
a variety of farinaceous substances, producing a soup
rather than a beverage. The cocoa-bean affords
admirable nutritive flesh-forming qualities and staying
power. In Cadbitet’s Cocoa Essence these are re-
tained and concentrated, providing an exhilarating in-
fusion, not a starchy soup. “Warnings to House-
holders,"—Anr.
of the donors and subscribers. The pleasant fashion of
keeping a sort of open-house or free-lunch bar for all
and sundry who take part in the conduct of the annual
elections, has met with a formidable adversary in him.
At the same time, he has for once employed adroitness
where direct opposition would have been futile. Instead
of being content with moving a formal proposition that
the customary outlay on free-feeding should not be
sanctioned, and accepting a vote adverse to his ideas,
ho has given double force to them by a touch of practical
and satirical generosity. He has undertaken to defray
the expense of the guzzling out of his own pocket
sooner than permit the resources held in trust for the
sick and wounded to be wrested from their righteous
object. There is a handsome humour about this which
is as tickling as it is welcome. Alderman Hordern has
pointed a moral to some purpose, and at the same time
he has very cleverly established a precedent which* his
co-directors will find it difficult to avoid following in
rotation.
The Balletin-Clontarf Case.
On Tuesday, the application by tbe defendants in the
above case to be granted a now trial, on the grounds
that paragraphs having no reference to the subject-
matter of the action had been improperly admitted as
evidence for the plaintiffs’ counsel to comment upon
by Mr. Jostice Manning, after conferring with the Chief
Justice, was refused by the Tull Court, The Chief
Justice, Judge Manning, and Judge Windeyer consti-
tuted the Bench, and the decision was that of the Chief
Justice and Mr. Justice Manning. Judge Windeyer
dissented in toto, and held that a new trial should bo
granted; and we commend to the attention ef the
public the lucid and masterly exposition of bis reasons
delivered by that Judge. Acting on the, ns far as can
be ascertained, unanimous opinion of the Bar, the
defendants hope to be enabled to carry the case to the
Privy Council, and there to receive that justice which
they consider has been denied to them by the Supreme
Court of this colony. The question of costs remains
undecided, and the case being to that extent still sub
judice, we hold our comments.
THE NEWSLETTER.
The registration of cases of small-pox to be
made compulsory in N.S.W.
Campbelltown will be proclaimed a municipality
shortly. Already there is great interest manifested in
coming municipal elections.
The New Zealand armed constabulary, while
making the raid on Parihaka, shamefully robbed the
Maoris of money and jewellery.
Children under six years of age, whose education
was costing the Victorian Government £lOO,OOO
annually, are not in future to be admitted to the
Victorian State schools.
A fund of .£3OOO "has been raised by the Chinese
in N.Z. for the purpose of exhuming the bodies or bones
of deceased Chinamen and conveying them to China,
where they are supposed to find a more sacred place of
sepulture. A ship Is to be chartered for the purpose.
A dispute occurred between Professor Nanson
and Professor Elkington, of the Melbourne University,
when the latter struck the former and knocked him
down. Professor Nanson threatens to take legal pro-
ceedings unless the Council of the University move in
the matter.
A new turret ship, called the Colossus, is to be
built by the British Admiralty, at a cost of £470,000 for
the hull alone. The entire cost will top half a million.
If tho sword is ever going to be turned into a plough-
share. It is almost time some one started to do it, if
only l£o save money.
The reported volcano near the Snug River, not
far from Hobart, has turned out all “ smoke "—simply
a bush fire. The excitement of the Hobartonians was
intense. Many enterprising individuals had ordered
extra accommodation to bo run up in view of the ex-
pected immigration from tho other colonies.
Terrific thunderstorm in Melbourne on the sth.
The rain fell in torrents, flooding the streets. A violent
electric explosion occurred near the Treasury, and
several people were rendered insensible. Two men were
struck dead. The Darling-street State school was
blown down, daring school hours, bat the children
escaped.
The Attokland Star informs its readers (hat
the Sydney directors of the South Pacific Petroleum
Company, Poverty Bay, have discontinued working tho
ground, against the advice of the local manager, Mr.
Barry. Mr. Cooper, tho owner of tho land, threatens to
re-enter, alleging that the conditions of lease have not
been fulfilled.
Ten cases of small-pox reported during the
week, showing renewed activity of the disease. Five
children in one family resident in Woolloomooloo found
to be seriously affected. Their illness was kept secret
by their father, who did not wish to lose hie work, and
the mother, who had a cow on tho premises, sold milk up
to within a few hours of the discovery.
Ever since the big sale at Katoomba last year,
there has been an increasing demand for land at the
Blue Mountains. Purchases made twelve months ago
have advanced 25 and 30 per cent., high as the figure
was at the time. The Lenra Estate, Katoomba, is now
in the market, and the sale is fixed for the 17th De-
camber—the auctioneers being Messrs. George Withers
and Co.
The case against Mr. M. M‘Mahon of Peter-
sham, of perjury and forgery, has resulted in a com-
mittal. The accused, acting on the advice of his
barrister, reserved his defence. The case is a most
extraordinary one. Mr. M'Mahon is a gentleman who
has for years borne a most excellent character, which
his friends expect will be amply vindicated by the
result of the inquiry.
Sydney Mayoral honorarium has been raised from
£BOO to £lOOO. The election for Mayor takes place on
to-morrow (Friday). It is expected that in recognition
of the signal services rendered during the past year,
and to allow of his continuing for one year longer his
rigorous measures for the improvement of the city, Mr.
John Harris will be honoured with another term of
office. The citizens should expect more practical work
this year from the Council as now constituted than at
any previous period of our municipal history.
A notorious and daring criminal, Fred Plummer,
has been arrested on suspicion of being connected with
the burglaries at Auckland, N.Z. ,’Theie has been a
great deal of excitement in that city for some time past,
and in consequence one innocent wanderer, who had a
glass in too much, Thomas Noonan, butcher of the
Hero (b.s.), suffered on the last trip of tho boat there.
He went to see his sweetheart, about eleven o’clock at
srght, was mistaken for a burglar, got half-killed and had
his arm broken, before he had presence of mind to ex-
plain matters.
SOCIAL.
There was a crowded attendance at the Gym-
nastic sociable on Wednesday week. Proceedings
included gymnastic exercises with apparatus and with-
out, fencing, feats of strength, &c., and lasted two
hours. Professor D’Harcourt’s own performances are,
of course, of a neat and finished character, but the
pupils’ vary a good deal,' and they don’t wear that
graceful smile while performing which always illumines
the face of the circus man. Indeed, the agony that
screwed up the features of some of the athletes in their
efforts, showed that their desire for fame was consider-
ably greater than their ability to reach it. As the
discriminating audience was composed largely of young
ladies, and the gymnasts, anticipating that fact, had
got themselves up accordingly, their per-onal appear-
ance was a matter of just as much importance as their
development of muscle, and the soft© voce remarks
passed around were very edifying. The appearance of
“that dear little fellow,” whose symmetrical calves
were encased in blue continuations, caused quite a
flutter of fans and feathers, and a whole chorus of sighs
went up from the palpitating bosoms of the fair
spectators. Scores of lovely heads’ bent down, and
silvery voices whispered: “Who is he?” When one
promising youth, in light hair and blue trimmiugs, get
on the apparatus, he seemed to consider himself under a
sacred obligation to perform evety trick he knew, as
well as a few he didn't know, before coming down.
Sometimes he got into such an awful knot that it took
the united efforts of several friends and the sympathy
of the entire audience to undo him. Slow muscular
exertions, the most severe, did not “take ” much, but
showy quick tricks were appreciated. Vaulting the
wooden horse was rendered interesting by a substanti-
ally built gentleman, who didnot jump quite far enough,
alighting gracefully on his—ahem! crupper bone. He
tried hard to look as if it didn’t matter, but the smile
was faint. The chorus of “Ohs!" showed how much
everyone felt for him. All the front seats were filled by
ladies, one somewhat wholesale family filling nearly one
row, while gentlemen stood behind.* Beauty was rather
present, and bo doubt served to stiffen up the muscles
of the flannel-clad. Some ladies had to stand —not
because there were no seats, hut because the chairs
were occupied by effete young men, who were tired.
The German Band played lively airs, and. despite the
absence- of the Herculean Miller, the sociable was
enjoyed.
# ft *
The Parramatta Dramatic Club4ias been shilly-
shallying with “ Our Boys ” for nearly three months
now. First they would, and then they wouldn’t, and
now they finally won’t. Of course there is beauty at
the bottom of all the trouble.
ft ft #
On the 22nd November, the Mayor of Hobart
gave his annual picnic. Shortly after 10 o’clock the
launch Minx started down channel, and a run of two
hours brought the party to Little Oyster Cove, where
the day was spent in pleasure, on Mr. Crowther’s
grounds. Over three score gentlemen were present,
and indulged in orations, libations, cricket-, rounders,
and fishing.
ft # ft
If any rapturous maiden wants to look aesthetic,
she can achieve the consummation of her desires by
dressing in a green velvet bodice with emerald heads
worked upon it in the form of shamrocks. On the skirt
of pale green tulle she should form a trimming of large
white lilies, and put a water lily and some green leaves
in her hair. All she has to do, then, is to languish.
• * *
One of the leading “ ladies’ papers ” gives
periodically to the feminine public a coloured fashion-
plate, supposed to illustrate the modes adopted by well-
dressed women. Some of those lately issued have been
hideous atrocities. In one figure, the hips rose in points
several inches above the lino of the waist. In another,
the waist was in proportion to tbe shoulders as It to 6,
the correct proportions being 4to 6. In other word *,
the truly symmetrical figure has, with shoulders measur-
ing 36 inches, a waist whose circumference is 24; but in
the picture referred to, the waist would measure abort
9 inches and the bust 36. In another of these figures, the
neck was omitted, while the head grew out from between
the shoulders. This impossible being supported herself
upon feet of which only the soles touched the ground—
the whole proving that the laws of anatomy are utterly
ignored by those who lead the fashions, as well as by
those who blindly follow them.
ft * »
The last of a series of winter parties took place
last week at the Masonic Hall, Dubbo, and was a com-
plote success, dome dresses were superb, and several
ladies had their bouquets sent from Sydney. Mrs.
Taylor, Mayoress, was attired in a black corded silk
dress, with satin scarf, trimmed with cardinal bows,
crossing the front. Mrs. Caro was in black silk, with
Watteau polonaise, trimmed with white laoe and orna-
mented with red poppies. Mrs. Hermann, of Coon-
amble, had on a rich dress of pale pink silk, with white
tarletan overskirt; and Miss Eagar was also in pale
pink. A very pretty dross of. pale blue sateen, the
bodice being figured, and tbe skirt trimmed with white
lace, was worn by Miss O’Gorman. Mrs. Fitzgerald
was in a charming costume of doru and cardinal, the
bodice being figured cardinal silk en militaire, and the
skirt en traine. A young lady from Wellington created
considerable attention, being attired in a “ trans-
cendcntal" costume, consisting of a tight-fitting black
dress, with overskirt embroidered in an indescribable
combination of msthetio flowers in all varieties of
colour. Her sister was also in black, with cardinal
trimming. A white cashmere with pale bine bows was
worn by Mrs. Fitzhardinge, and Mrs. Baper was dressed
completely in black. Mrs. Blacket was attired in
maize-coloured silk, with jacket bodice, the skirt
trimmed with cascades of white lace intermixed with
cardinal satin bows. The music was good, and the re-
union altogether very pleasant.
ft ft #
“ Ye olde Englyshe fayre” is quickly going out
of fashion at home. The upper ten did not relish its
being adopted at a barmaid contest; but at the opening
of the new market hall at Southport, the atall-keepers
who sold fish, vegetables, &c., were all attired in “ old
Eaglysho” costumes. When fish vendors take up a
novelty, the fashionables drop it,
• ft «
On Tuesday week a large and fashionable ball
was given by the officers of H.M.S. Miranda to their
friends, in Needs’ rooAa. Over 200 guests were pre-
sent, including his Excellency Lord Loftus and suite.
Commodore and Mrs. Wilson, Government House
party, members of Parliament, and many representa-
tives of wealth and beauty. Tbe decorations of live
greenery and flowers, arranged by. the sailors, were
lavishly handsome. The dresses, the cost of which, in
some cases, ran nearly to three figures, were a blaze of
magnificence; white and cream, black and cardinal
and pink and gold being conspicuous. An amber earin'
heavily trimmed with old gold lace and wit h long f.rri-,/
was lustrous in its grandeur. The Govor .>;• Was
formally received • i arrival by a guard of honour o
sailors in uniform, and conducted into the ball-room
The sailors were also in attendance throughout the
night, holding the scarlet ropes for convenience in
dancing, carrying baskets of programmes, etc. The
officers were in full naval uniform. Tte City Cattring
Co. provided refreshments, and the break-up took place
about 3 a.m., the guests being delighted with the floor
the music, and the conveniences afforded by Mr. Needs’
splendid suite of rooms.
* * •
At the wedding which took place at the Great
Synagogue, on Wednesday, the 30th ultimo, many
prettyjand effective toilettes were to be seen which de-
serve some notice. The couple united were Mr. A. p'
Cassels.of New Zealand, to the second daughter of Mr L
Brodziak, of Woolloomooloo. The bride’s dress was
composed of ivory-coloured silk trimmed with lace and
flowers, plain tulle veil and wreath of orange-blossoms
completing her attire. The bridesmaids (six in nnm-
her) wore cream Madras muslins over sateen skirts
three in blue, and three in pink, head-dress to oorre-’
spend. The bride’s mother was tastefully attired in black
Bilk and cream bonnet. The toilettes of the guests were
well worthy of notice. One was decidedly handsome
and was shown to .great advantage by a Eedfern lady, it
being composed of light brown silk, with trimmings of
cardinal satin and beads, bonnet to match. Another
handsome toilet was black silk embroidered with gold
beads. Mrs, M. Moss, who officiated for the bride-
groom, looked well in rich black satin. A young
married lady looked attractive in pink with trimmings
of blue Bilk. The prettiest and most tasteful costumes
were those worn by two young ladies (sisters, evidently)
who looked charming in pale blue and cream, with hats
and gloves to match. After the ceremony, the bridal
party betook themselves to the residence of the bride’s
father, where a sumptuous breakfast awaited them.
• * •
Spelling-bees have not died ont yet. There was
one at North Shore, last Tuesday. A large audience;
eighteen competitors. Arthur Try, first prize; Herbert
Ramsay, second. Haggling, “ chiselling,” and disputes
over almost every word. Eleven or eight examiners;
each wanted to be “ boss,” and, as their opinions always
differed, the result was bad.
• # *
The bachelors of Campbelltown invited their
friends to a in the local Temperance Hall, on Thurs-
day last. Fifty couples danced till daylight to the
strains of the Campbelltown brass band. Amongst the
ladies, the two most noticeable were a maiden in slate-
coloured silk, trimmed with pink and silver, and a
charming petite lady in black tarlatan and silver trim-
mings. The honour of “belle” was divided between
those two, though there were many other pretty cos-
tumes, General satisfaction.
* * *
Another literary man caught in Cupid's mesh.
A fair lady recently from London, and a gentleman
till lately on the leading daily. We are getting harcus-
tomed to see our friends leaving ns. •
* • •
At a fashionable marriage, at Hawthorn, Vic.,
last week, no fewer than Ifi telegrams from Sydney,
Adelaide, and Victorian friends, wore received in time to
be read at the wedding breakfast, and one very welcome
present was a small silver casket containing a hundred
sovereigns. This was just a trifle from the bride’s
parents to help the honeymoon along; the dower is to
he on quite a different scale.
• • •
Sugar and Spice ” are two sweet maidens who
write to ns, from Tumut, the daintiest little note
jmagmaMe—the outpouring of their troubled hearts.
And their trouble is certainly of the most heartrending
nature. It seems’there is another girl—a hateful, bold
thing who devotes all her energies to copying their
dresses. It isn’t likely for a moment she will make
herself look as charming, as we feel sure •' Sugar and
bpics are, no matter how she tries; still, as the
Chicken says in “Dombsy and Son,” “It’s mean,
that s what it is,” and we hardly know what to recom-
mend. Yon see, in the cose of a new machine, or a
comic opera, or a sensation novel, there is the copy-
right; but a lady’s dress is not protected at all. A girl
can nearly think her pretty head off to make some-
thing that s bound to “ kill;’’ and then, directly she
m somo mysterious creation of millinery
.that s just perfectly lovely," some other horrid
mean girl, who is not good-looking, comes along and
tnfnnges her patent. We don’t wonder at “ Sugar and
Spice getting sour for onee. Thera’s one comfort,
though; if they are anything like as pretty as their
handwriting, they need not care what the other girl
UOOSa
« * *
Jl a YC bean lively at Ashfield during the
week. On Tuesday there was a conversazione, on Wcd-
bazaar, and the flower show is fixed for this
(Thursday) evening. Of course there has been a grand
gathering of the beauty and youth of that fashionable
suburb,
* • •
Projected matrimonial fixture. A certain
medico residing within one hundred miles of Sydney
and a “gallant pleeceman’a
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, December 8,1881.
On the Wharves, on Tuesday, prime old lucerne was
at from ss, to £2 10s.; green lucerne, £2 10s.
to £2 155.; interior new hay, £1 to £1 15s, per ton.
-he market is overstocked with hay, and business ex-
tremely dull. Maize, 45.; oats, prime, 2s. 9d.|to 3s. per
bnshel. Victorian chaff, £5 per ton, bags inclusive.
Jiver onions, new. 7s. to Bs.; ditto potatoes.
fn vLi «^ d V tO -7.? 8 ' P er cwt., bags included. Butter,
in keg, 61. to 7d. per lb. Eggs, Is. 3d. to Is. 4d. per doz
Bacon, 6d. to 7d per lb. Cheese. 7d. to 9d. per lb Ham.
lOd. to Is. per lb. Honey, 3d. to 4d. per lb Lard, 4d. to
sd. perlb. Beeswax, 9d. to lOd. per lb. Millet brooms,
os. to 10s. per dozen. ’
Wheat.— During the week there was a line of 850 bags
h.^«s lUm s qUa , hty of Adelaide wheat quitted at 55.,
atffn to’>!?rw feW 8 ? ud l 1 ? ts £ N s -Wales prime wheat
5 1 * 6 i d - per bl ! Bh ®h Fair samples of wheat are
™ y P^ C i d -i >n , 1 a ff lva l- N - S - Wales wheat, ss. to
£ A^kl^ e dltt °. ss. to ss. 6d.; Victorian ditto,
ss. to os. 3d.; Launceston (Tasmania) ditto. ss. • New
Zealand ditto, 4s. 9d. to ss. per bushel
Flour.— As usual at this time of the year, there is
plenty of inferior flour being forced on the market at
all prices, as millers clear out old stocks to avail them-
selves of the first of the new crop, which will now be
about , a mon * h ! s time. For reliable brands
fl aleß are bel “/ made at our quotations
SSSt superfine, £l3; household, £l2:
TOCOBds, £11 ; country brands of N.S.W., £l2 10s. to
ln 5 J, 10tOr r' £l i 10s -to£l3 ss. ; Adelaide, £l2 to
Sr bushd r ton ‘ Bran and pollard * ls - ld - to Is. 2d.
Fresh Meat. —At the Riverstone Meat Co.’s sheds
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh country-killed
frnniV ak p pIaCG daily i a . fair supply arriving,
fh in Pn ? 6B ar !- : Pnme bodie *. from 2d. to 2}d.per
J, b er^. r Xro ; u“d edlamqUalit7 ' lid '’ “ d
Poultry —Fowls are celling at from 3s fid to 4a .
g^se, 8s to 95. ; fecks. 4 , 3d. to 4s. cock turkeys
205.; ditto hen, 7s. to 9s. nor nair. Gys ’


Of.
RN
ac
aMßadßieß
TURNER AND HENPEI
NEW BOOK AND STATIONERY
THE SHOP FOE THE LAEGEST ASSORTMENT
THE ORIGINAL DEPOT FOE AUSTRALIAN
GOLD and SILVER PENCIL CASES, BEST PUESES, and P
SCRAP ALBUMS. Unequalled Assortment of GO
In the Assign** Estate of Q. A
JEWELLERY TO THE AM 0 U
IN order to dispose of the above Stoek, we have made up the ut
found very cheap, and consist of the follow!
[registered.]
TO PERSONS IN DIPEIC
the Mutual Trade Protection -
cover your debts or obtain the best s<
Address to the Secretary, 65 Pitt-
W ANTED, SUBSCRIBERS
met Bulletin. W. Eowi
News Agent, and Stationer, Queeuslai
JOHN S A
WHOLESALE, EETA
and
MANUFAC TURING ST
374 GEOSGE STREET, S
The designs selected by Mr. Sands
mas Card Competition, inaugurated b,
are now ready, and may be obtained
and Stationers in Australia.
These cards are essentially Austra'
being designed by Australian Artists
by Mr. Sands’s own lithographers, s
works as above. Persons wishing to
this new Colonial industry, are request
each card bears on it Mr. Sands’s trac
Glass. This caution is necessary, as m
being offered to the public, which, alt;
in character, are of European product
lu addition to the cards of his r
Sands has imported the most varied C(
in the colonies. Those desirous of pc
lected with artistic taste, cannot do hi
his stock, which includes the various]
the home competitions, together with
tions from the principal English,
American Manufacturers.
Mr. Sands has also on view the picl
premiums of One Hundred and Fifty
nibition, lately hold at the Art Gall
Wales
■ chromo-lithographic
November, 1881.
MASON BROTI
14 & 16 Spi
Syd:
Have always in S
to the TEADI
SALE BUYER
IRONMONGER'S
GENERA
GLASS,
A 1
EAR T H E
WINES, BEERS
and g<
BULK MER
Agenl
JOHN WALK!
Old Highlaa
J. SORIN
Cog)
J. T. Qi
Schnapps a
A. MELVIN
Edinburgh
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GENI
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all 1
Plain figures—Low pric
H. PAL
\v.
HOWARD SMIT
LINE OP STEAMI
laave STEUTH’S WHARF, foe
For MELBOURNE,
Every TUE3E
Fnr BRISBANE,
}or MARYBOROUGH,
and EOCKE
On TUESI
FARES and FREIGHTS at Qrei
1 RATES.
W. HOWARD SMIT
Steam to London —o
1881.
The following Royal Mail Steami
the ORIENT STEAM NAYIGA'
I LIMITED), and the PACIFIC 6
TION COMPANY, will leave SYD
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, A
pON, via the SUEZ CANAL, calhi
And the service will be maintai
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards ma;
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goin
steamer within a month; but failing
subsequent steamer having room.
Pares, to London, 15 to 70 guineas
9s in addition.
Passages from London can be gran
For plans and full particulars, a
aud CO., and ANDERSON. AND
Joint Managers of the line; or to tl
General Manager in Ana
G.
0
RIENT LINE OP !
PARCEL EXPEEf
Special Arrangements have been
eyance of Parcels and small packagi
iteamers to London at reduced ratei
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a fo
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a ]
Packages will he received at this
as ued, up to Noon of the day prior t<
ailing. AH freights payable in By
larticulars, apply to T
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient 1
267 Qeorge-street, Sydney.
JIHE PAINLESS CORN
i Sure EaUef, and in multitudes
Cute for Corns.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Che
iropnetor). Agents —Messrs. EUioj
ley and Brisbane; and sold by al
eudors. AgK PO R HANDED
ROVERS OP GOOD !
We beg to draw yo
PARTICULAR ATTEfI
to the
SIATIO TEA C(
PACKET TEA
Packed|in pounds and half-|
SIATIC MIXTURE,
URE INDIAN TEA,
URE CEYLON TEA,
OB® JAVA TEA,
2a. and 2s.
2s. 6d. anc
2s. 6d. anc
2s. 6d. anc
salal Quotations given to Whol


Business Announcements
[Legal.]
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
J SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr, Shorter, Notary Public.
Legal.— Mr. t, m. slatteey,
SOLICITOR, Ima commenced the
practice of his profession, at IS9 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evening
News Office,
LEGAL.— N. W. COOKE, Solicitor. OFFICE :
3 Ground Floor, Wentworth Court. PRIVATE
ADDRES S: 16 Sir John Young’s Cresent, Opposite
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
JJOTICE
OF REMOVAL.
THOMAS WEBB & SONS,
GLASS MANUFACTURERS,
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCRIPTION ]of CHINA
and EARTHENWARE,
Beg to announce that they have
REMOVED
to
259 GEORGE STREET,
Next but One to the Mercantile Bank.
A magnificent selection of New Goods now opening.
AND
GIBBS
Antomatia
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £i 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&0., &0., Ac,
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
•416 GEORGE STREET.
Christmas and New Year Cards,
JUST OPENED.
Tho Largest and Most Elegant Assortment
ever seen in Australia.
WILL BE SOLD AT LONDON PRICES.
EDWARD R. COLE,
IMPORTER OP BOOKS AND STATIONERY,
Corner of George and King Streets.
[Extract from the Evening News, November 5,1881.]
Mr. E. R. Cole, the bookseller, nt the corner of
George and King streets, has an astonishingly large
and varied collection ef Christmas Cords. We have
been shown by him some very ingeniously arranged
mechanical cards, and some handsomely painted ones.
Some of the former at first appear to be very neatly
painted on ore side, with suitable verses for tho Christ-
niastide of the year on the other; but,, on closer inspec-
tion, it is observable that there is more to be seen
inside, and on opening, a beautiful scented fnli-blown
rose or other flower, quite natural looking, comes to
light. Ho has also some fine cards with colonial flowers,
which will prove interesting to recipients in other parts
of the world. Indeed, Mr. Cole’s ante-rooms seem one
mass of beautiful cards, which must have cost him some
considerable amount.
[Extract from Sydney Daily Telegraph, Nov. 2,1881.]
By the s.s. John Elder and other steamers, Mr. Cole,
of King and George streets, has received from the
principal manufacturers of London. Paris, Berlin, and
New York, a large assortment of Christmas and New
Year Cards, some samples of which have been sent to
us. They are of the most chaste and recherche* de-
signs, comprising hand-painted floral and other patterns,
on cards and satin, mechanical cards, and elegant per-
fumed sachets. They will no doubt form an attractive
feature at Mr. Cole’s shop during the approaching
Christmas season.
[Extract from Sydney Punch, Nov. 5,1881.]
On the Cards—Whence this sweet perfume (sniff),
this balmy odoriferousness ? (sniff) Eh ! What ?
Presto I and such gorgeous tints ! Toby, is old Punch
dreaming ? No, by all that’s delightful! It’s an assort-
ment of Christmas cards and sachets from E. R. Cole
Oh! charming, charming, charming!
[Extract from the Freeman’s Journal, Nov. 5,1881]
Christmas Cards.—As is usually the case at this time
of the year, most of the stationers’ windows in the city
are filled with all kinds of bright and prettily designed
Christmas cards. Mr. Edward Colo has evidently taken
more than ordinary pains this year to obtain a large and
.varied collection of cards, and certainly those now on
view at his establishment, at the corner of King and
George streets, surpass in beauty andeleganoa of design
anything in this line that has ever been seen in the
colonies. By the John Elder and other steamers Mr.
Colo has received from the principal manufacturers of
London, Paris, Berlin, and New York, a splendid assort-
ment of Christmas and New Year cards, comprising
hand-painted floral and other patterns on carets and
satin, mechanical cards, elegant perfumed satchets, &c.
[Extract from The Bulletin.]
Cole’s Christmas Cards comprise a collection of the
greatest variety and novelty yet seen in this city. The
best London and Parisian talent and taste seem to have
been devoted to their production; and it pretty clearly
shows that in respect of design and style wa have in
these colonies yet something to learn. There’s another
point—marvellous cheapness.
EDWARD R. COLE,
IMPORTER OF BOOK? AND STATIONERY,
CORNER OF GEORGE AND KING STREETS.
Public Companies
!JIHE AUSTRALIAN- JOINT STOCK BANK.
Paid-np Capital, £500,000, with power to increase to
£1,(KM),000. Reserve Pnnd, £lBO,OOO.
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq., Chairman; William B. Walford,
Esq.; W. A. Long, Esq.; Jeremiah B. Bundle,
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; Walter Eriend, Esq.
General Manager :
- Vincent Wonostrocht Giblin.
HEAD OFFICE: GEOf.GE STBEET, SYDNEY.
City and Suburban Branches: Haymarket, Redfern,
Glebe, Burwood.
London Office: 18 King William-street, E.C.
BRANCHES IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
Albury, Armidale, Balliua, Balranald, Bathurst,
Bomrke, Bundarra, Cassilis, Condobolin, Coonabara-
bran, Coonamblc, Copeland North, Cowra, Deniliquin,
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gr.n-
fell, Gulgong, Hay, Hill End, Hillston, InvereH,
Kempsey, Lambton, Macleay, Menindie, Melang,
Morpeth, Mudgee, Nprandera, Newcastle, Orange,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Eockley, Kylstone, Single-
ton, South Grafton, Temora, Tenterfield, Ulmaiic,
Urana, Wagga Wagga, Wallsend, Wentworth, \V cst
Maitland, Wilcannia, Woodburn, Yass.
BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane, Allora, %oweu. Charters Towers, Clermont,
Gladstone, Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Maryborough,
Ravenswood, Rockhampton, Stauthorpe, Toowoembn,
Townsville, Warwick.
Agents in all the Australian Colonies and throughout
the World generally.
This mercantile bank of Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCOEPOEATED BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT, 187 S
Paid-up Capital .£300,000
Reserve Fund £116,891
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Honry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hoa. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq,
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
587 Qeorge-street Brickfield Hill, and Eedfem,
LONDON BANKERS:
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq,
Agent—Q. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for Bale.
8
COTTISH
IMPERIAL
COMPANY.
INSURANCE
CAPITAL ... £1,000,000.
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEST RATES.
NIXON & CO.,
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country,
Lion fire insurance company,
Limited.
Chief Offices—s LOTHBURY, LONDON, E.C.
Subscribed Capital £1,000,000.
Paid-up Capital, £200,000. Reserved Fund, £50,000.
Annual Income £150,000.
EIRE INSURANCE on every description of property
in town and country, at LOWEST RATES. Losses
promptly adjusted and paid in Sydney.
. New South Wales Branch :
QUEEN'S CHAMBERS, 26 BRIDGE ST
JNO. O. NEILD, Manager.
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY,
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
?34 GEOEGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
jgUSINESSES FOR SALE.
FROST AND CO.,
Estate, General, Business, and Partnershio
AGENTS,
Offer for Salo Hotels in Sydney, Suburbs, and Country,
from £lOO to £5OOO, and—
BUSINESSES of every description, from £25 to
£lO,OOO. Intending Purchasers, who favour ua with a
call, can rely on being dealt with in a business-like
manner.
Cash assistance to Purchasers at Bank rate of in.
terest.
All Parties about disposing of their BUSINESSES,
will find F. and Co. the most Equitable and Quickest
Medium in the Colony to effect Sales.
Offices: 79, Pifct-street.
G-. AND S. PREDDEY
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Eeskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, /jp., at lowest rates
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES
ARE MADE ONLY BY
The Singer Blannfacturing Company.
Head Offices;
31 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK, U.SA.
Chief Office in Europe:
39 FOSTER LANE, LONDON.
Depot for New South Wales:
No. 1 DARLING STORES, HARBOUR STREET,
160 FIRST PRIZES.
EAST TEEMS—2s. 6d. WEEKLY,
AGENTS IN EVERY TOWN.
LOCAL DEPOTS:
BOLTON STREET, NEWCASTLE.
WILLIAM STREET, BATHURST.
AUBURN STREET N., GOULBURN.
PEEL STREET, TAMWORTK.
VICTORIA STREET, GRAFTON.
No. 1 DARLING STORES,
HARBOUR STREET, SYDNEY.
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ARE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OF THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week —2s. 6d. per week —2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 par cent, oil for cosh.
BEA7A.ES OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
553 George-streot.
THE ONLY "SINGER”—
. TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
i 7
HATMARKET.
few SfrajJ
bisViislS.
.if M
o
O’
HOME COMPANION. / C t V A'
/ v
HOME SHUTTLE. /
/
WEPT HEIM,
HDV/E,
/
The
Lin hi
AO «•'
■ ' s A'
, Cq £
&c., &c.
J / Running
£s. Sd.
per week.
N' & / Oils,
° 'V / and nrrJs fer ell
/
me
gINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 George-street, Unytsarket, Sydney,
have keen appointed agents for these coloDrated
machines.
Call and see them—Month’s trial gi-ron.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
OTTO” SILENT GAS ENGINE.
NeBOILER,
full POWER
AT A MO-
MENTS NO-
TICE,
vh No Trouble
Awh h Coal,
", A'hea,Smoke,
j Insurance,
W;iter, or
Attendance.
Oort of Gas,
IP per horse -
power per
hoar, with gss
at 6s 61 per
1030 feet.
GIBBS, BRIGHT, and CO , Aron’s, fiSPitt-street.
<THE
I '•
mm::
mi -■
vffcrV:
■J 1 -;' :
Chemists and Druggists
CAUTION. —In onr style of climate, with its
sudden changes of temperature—rain, wind,
and sunshine often intermingled in a single day—
it is no wonder that our children, friends, and
relatives are so frequently taken from us by neg-
lected colds, half the deaths resulting directly
from this cause. A bottle of Boschee’s German
Syrup kept about your home for immediate use
will prevent serious sickness, a large doctor’s bill,
and perhaps death, by the use of three or four
doses For curing Consumption, Hemorrhages,
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Croup, or any disease
of the Throat or Lungs, its success is simply won-
derful, as your druggist will tell. German
Syrup is now sold in every town and village on
this continent. Sample bottles, for trial, 9d.;
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA LINIMENT
was introduced into London
two years ago, where thousands of cases were cured
—and one year in Sydney; and some of the worst cases
of Rheumatism have been cured in a short time by
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long standing, it will cure.
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Aches it will cure in a
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured by a few applications.
HEAD OFFICE:
89 WATEELOO-EOAD, LONDON;
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
S, W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE AGENTS, PITT
STREET, SYDNEY.
MANZANITA FRUIT PILLS.
TRY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented for Liver complaints.
Thousands of people in Sydney have used them, and
have been cured of Biliousness, Indigestion, Costive-
ness, Sick Headaches, and all complaints arising from
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO ROAD, LONDON;
and 107 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
S. W. GAMBLE, Proprietor.
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE AGfENTS,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STEEE’S RHUBARB
AND
GINGER PILLS,
FOE
INDIGESTION
AND
STOMACH COMPLAINTS.
%• They are also much recommended as a mild laxa-
tive for Females, being safe, gentle, and effectual in
their operation, leaving no disposition to costivoness,
and being free from any tendency to cause pain or
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer—
F. E. SLOPER.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT—
OXFORD STREET SYDNEY.
J.
S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS, DANDELION.
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
And successful substitute for Calomol or Mercury,
Podophyllum, and all Noxious Drugs.
Famous as a Restorative to Health.
Famous as an Invigorator of the System.
Famous for the Cure of all Disorders of the Liver and
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic Aperient that never
gives cold, and
The most delicate Of either sex, in all conditions. Can
take them.
Be careful not to get Imitations.
IN BOXES. ONE SHILLING.
Invented and Prepared only by
J. S. ABRAHAM,
At the Laboratory,
434 STREET, SYDNEY.
HENRY’S COLONIAL OINTMENT, AND
AUSTRALIAN WORM POWDERS.
Prepared only by the Inventor and Proprietor, J
HENRY, CHEMIST, 750 George-street, Haymarket,
third door from Commercial Bank.
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctas, you will not be able to cough. Price Is, at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
177 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
CHARLES GIETZ,
(from Messrs. P. N. Russell and Co.)
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoves, Bilkers’ Ovens,
Mountings, &c. Off No. 517 George-street (between
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), Sydney.
►IANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
PIANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC,
J. MASSEY apd SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, Gorman, and French
factories, representing, among others, such Arms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Anchor, &o.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may he had on the Time-payment
System.
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC,
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
D
AY OR NIGHT PORTRAITURE.
The elegant Studio of
THE ELECTRIC PORTRAIT COMPANY,
205 OXFORD STREET,
(Opposite to the Court House, Darlinghurst),
IS NOW OPEN, from 10 in the Morning till 10 in the
Evening, for
TAKING PORTRAITS BY ARTIFICIAL LIGHT •
Architectural, Mechanical, and Landscape Photographs
in the highest style of art to order.
The Autotype process also practised in all its beanti-
fnl varieties.


retiring from
£25,000 S
MUST BE DISPOSE
jyj-E. EDWARD H
Begs to notify to the Public of N
consequence of recent severe fam
failing health, his intention to
Retire from the Drapes
in favour of his Sons,
ME. EDWAED HOEDEEI
MR. PERCY HORD
and MR. HUGI
who has held, a responsible positic
nxent for many years
THE NEW P
WILL COMMENCE I
on the
FIRST DAT of JANUA
Under the name and s
EDWARD EORDERZ
Meanwhile, to reduce the stock (\
one) it will be offered to the Public
Tempting Pri<
that a speedy Clearance must follov
EDWARD
retiring from ;
£25,000 STOCK to di
EDWARD HORZ
IMPORTER OF FIEST-CLA
i
668 Brickfield Hill (only) ‘
BARB CHANCE FOE COMMIE
RARE CHANCE FOE HOTEL
RARE CHANCE FOR HEADS
RARE CHANCE FOR STEAM-B 1
RARE CHANCE FOE EV
THE SORCERESSES OF SYDNEY.
We have been disenchanted— disillusioned. The
gloomy mystery which pervaded the doings of the nccro.
manners and astrologers of the mediaeval ages has van-
ished before the march of civilization. The oriental
splendour whieh characterised the laboratories of
Haltre Rend, Dr. Eaustus, and others, has departed
with the old stage-coaches ; and necromancy, though
still to the fore, in lieu of being clothed in the garb of
seed pearls and of silk velvet, is, in these degenerate
days, enveloped in an atmosphere of seediness and
squalor. In the dear old romances of Ainsworth and
Dumas, we have read of kings hanging upon the words
of Cagliostro and of the fate of nations depending on the
horoscopes of Doctor Basilius. In those times, men of
any standing always carried a million or two about them,
and it was considered the thing to “ toss “ (that is the
word) a purse stuffed with “broad gold pieces” to the
professor of divination when he had completed the dread
ceremonial of giving you the tip for future slaughter.
The ethics of the trade of fortune-telling, however, are
substantially the same now as in the glorious days
when you could kill a man you didn’t like and pay for
him. The phrases of necromancers appear to have de-
scended, like heirlooms, from generation to generation;
for, when we take into consideration the alterations
which have, since the year 150 D, been effected both in
speaking and writing the English language, the enun-
ciations of fortune-tellers of the present day can, in
point of unmeaning mysteriousness, compare favour-
ably with the turgid utterances of the magicians of the
literature of our youth,
« • •
A glance at tbe advertising columns of the
Evening News will at once make it patent to the
reader that fortune-telling in Sydney is an industry
Which, however feebly it may flourish, undeniably
exists. The trade is confined to ladies, and all of them
adopt Gallic prefixes to their names. Thus —“ Madame
Holland, phrenologist,” advertises that She gives
“ advice to travellers,” etc; Madame Denise the same.
Madame Terry issues a like announcement; while Anna
Lee puts herself forth as the “ Gipsy Phrenologist,”
and gives mysterious “ advice to travellers ” also_
There are others in this peculiar profession who do not
advertise at all, but who depend upon an extensive
clientele of servant-girls and seamstresses for a living,
without risking the danger of a police prosecution by
publicity. The caution of these ladies stands them in
good stead, since, in spite of our utmost exertions, we
were only enabled to unearth two of the non-advertising
magiciennes—Madame Arnold, and —-that dread and
dusky member of the mystic hand—“ Gipsy Jones.”
# * *
Tko thoroughfares in which the laboratories of
these weird women are to be found, consist chiefly of
obscure streets in crowded neighbourhoods. Where
the fortune-teller flourishes, routs are witludifflculty
Collected, in COnSeduence of the migratory nature
t>{ the Various tenants, and the streets aro remark-
ufcle for the meanness of their shops and for the
Humber of golden balls which the distant perspective
discloses. Small girls with big beer-jugs are plenti-
ful, and the ragged urchin plays marbles or hop-sootch
cu the Side walk without let or hindrance The
Vnusie Of the barrel-organ is heard eight hours out of
iho tWenty-four, and the harp and violin are at hottte in
ike district. The houses, too, are peculiar. They are
not only small and mean, but an indescribable air of
mystery pervades them. The blinds are nov'dy drawn
up, and as springs and toilers are Unknown in these
regions, their invariable crookedness is exceedingly
distressing to the bye of the artist. The upper windows
do not, as a rflld, boast of blinds at all, but ore for the
most; Part Ornamented with veiled makeshifts beating
ttUSpicioua resemblance to red flannel petticoats and
masculine “ singlets." The female residents, generally,
who parade the shady sido of the street, appear to have
forgotten to put their stockings on; while most of the
men who sit smoking blackened clays in their little
doorways are inliquor and their shirt-sleeves. The very
dogs which sniff about the evil-smelling gutters seem
different to other dogs. They wear a dissipated up-all-
night kind of air, and they have as many bald patches
on their bodies as a schoolboy’s hair-trunk at the final
breaking-up. In these seedy thoroughfares, the ice-
cream man winds his horn continually, and the gong
of the peripatetic vegetable merchant incessantly soars
upon the breezes. The chief vehicle for illumination
in the houses is kerosene, the flitting of the various
householders being invariably followedT)y the cutting
off of the gas. And yet to think that it is in such
neighbourhoods as these that the mighty magicians of
the present decade have to find refuge!—that the
descendants of Basilius and Cagliostro have here to
to select abodes wherein they may co: jure Up their
weird and wondrous manifestations 1
* * *
Til the classic precincts of street, off
Albion-street, Surry Hill?, is to be found the
bower wherein is enshrined the first of the
Sydney sorceresses we propose to immortalise—
Madame E—-. This lady’s residence is a dusty
little two-story building, with a balcony upon which
are a number of bird-cages, the occupants of which tes-
tify to their presence in a very shrill and emphatic
manner. We arrived at the frost door at the same time
as a stout lady in ashiny black silk dress, a brass watch-
chain, and a blue bat. We saw at once that she Was
either a cook or a duchess, but are too polite to make
any invidious distinctions in this instance. The door
was opened by a tall girl, with a dark smirch over her
eyebrow, accompanied by a younger female, who had
forgotten to button her frock behind. We were shown
into a little close parlour on the right of the passage,
the furniture of which would have been dear at twenty-
five shillings. Here, sitting in a chair, with her hands
crossed in front of her was a lady in lilac print and an
interesting condition. Her presence under those eir-
cumstances, was, we could not but feel, not only par-
donable, but praiseworthy, as evincing a delicate solid-
tude as to the sequence of future events.
* * *
During the five minutes we were left in com-
pany with these women, we studied them attentively,
and were struck with the intense seriousness with
which their countenances were pervaded. The
“duchess” especially, wore an expression on her face
of steadfast gloom, which was very disconcerting to
contemplate, and there could be no doubt whatever
that she came there with a firm belief in necromancy,
which no earthly evidence would ever suffice to eradi-
cate. As for the other woman, we could see that her
heart beat quickly at every footstep, and that the mys-
tic influence of the as yet invisible sorceress was full upon
her. Suddenly the girl with the unhooked frock came
clattering down stairs, and told ns briefly to “ come
on ” We followed her np a small narrow flight into a
front room on the first floor, and there, sitting with her
back to the fire-place, and a small table before her, was
the weird sister.
« * *
Madame E is a lady of about 50, with a
very broad fat body, and a very wide fat face. Her
small grey eyes are bright and shifting, and upon her
lip there is more than a soupijon of a moustache,
which, like her somewhat scanty tresses, was decidedly
imbued with the tint auricomus. Madame’s costume
consisted of a holland jasket, which wasjfastened with
a hook and a pin alternately, and beneath the table
traces ox a nankeen skirt and a pair of unusually large-
sized carpet slippers were plainly visible. Her neck
was unconflned, and her hair, which was skewered np
anyhow with a hair pin, was decorated by more fluff
than is usually seen on the heads of ladies outside of
the magic circle. The room was small and close, and a
n°ar approach to Madame at once betrayed the fact
that she had only a little while before breakfasted on
steak and onions. AfCbr a few preliminary remarks, in
the course of which we said (just to give her a start)
that we expected a large sum of monay from some-
where, she took the cards from under the table-cloth,
and, desiring us to cut them into three packs, com.
menced business. Her modus operandi was to place the
cards face upwards into two columns each side of the
table, and, while she did the “pitch," form them gradu-
ally into the shape of a fan. The following were
verbatim (as nearly as possible) her lucid remarks :
• « »
“The money you are expecting” (we are ex-
pecting no money) “ will come by the next mail in bank
post-bills, or something of that.sort, and than you will
marry” (we are already married) ‘‘a woman with blue
eyes and dark hair who loves you fondly. You have
had disappointments, but all will bo well, and you will
have an ‘uprise’ shortly. You have many enemies
and rpany friends, blit beware of a short man with a
black beard. You oro much envied because of your
dress and appearance ” (“ what balm to the soul of the
parlour-maid,” we thought) “ bat your sister ” (we
have no sister) “ will watch over yen. You will go a
journey by water, and there will meet with strange peo-
ple. Many are fair to your face and false behind your
back; hut though there ara disappointments you will
meet with, your future is fair before yon. You are fond
of ladies’ society, and sports—cricket, for instance” (we
hate cricket). She looked up here, and said sharply,
“ You are not in the Parliament, are you ?” “ No,” we
replied. “ Oh, I can see yon are not,’’ said’she, eyeing
a “Jack” of clubs —a very dirty one—intently. “Well,
then,” she hazarded, “ a warehouse ?“ 11 We are in the
Lands Office, Madame,” we said. ‘‘Of course,” she
exclaimed, wildly clutching a ten of spades; ‘‘here it
is, you see, tho very card.” ‘‘ Wonderful!” we ejacu-
lated. Then we asked her, with humility, the typical
card for the Marinos, stating that we had a brother en-
rolled amongst those warriors, whereupon she produced
a nine of diamonds with the utmost confidence.
* » #
Wearying of this after the second cut, we re-
minded her of the ladies who were waiting downstairs,
whereupon sho said, ‘‘Ob, never mind them. They
wait seven or eight hours sometimes on busy days ;
and it was only last I'riday that the wife of a member
of Parliament was in that room below there for two
solid hours waiting for her turn to come.” “ You don’t
say that the ladies of members of Parliament actually
come here 1” we exclaimed, simulating surprise.
“Do2ens of ’em,” was the emphatic reply. In the
course of a further conversation, she informed us that
she made from £l2 to £l4 per week regularly by telling
fortunes, and that she was only 18 months out from
England. Directly sho has saved sufficient to permit
of her carrying on a law-suit, in which she is engaged,
she purposos returning to England, and ‘‘taking it to
the Privy Council.” As an earnest of her legal Inten-
tions, she was good enough to show us a fish-basket
choke-full of parchment deeds, one of which bore the
seal of William and Mary, or Charlemagne, or Some-
body ; anyhow, it was of a green old age. All tho time
she was talking, one of the parrots on the balcony kept
going, ;‘ Quack, quack, quack,” in imitation of a duck ;
and every time it did so, the lady repeated the sound
in a low tone after the bird, a proceeding which taxed
our powers of gravity to the utmost.
* * *
Before going away, we inquired the price of this
marvellous exhibition of necromancy, Upon Which sho
asked if two half-crowns would break ug or “ make a
hole in the larder." Waiving this, we presented her
with three shilling?, which she accepted graciously,
and was even se good as to accompany us out on to the
landing, and say, in a loud tone of voice, “ Good morn-
ing-glad you were satisfied,” for the delectation of the
ladies awaiting an audience below. As we were being
shown oat by tho young girl (who, by-the-bye, had
now smoothed her hair down; which appeared to be her
way of washing herself), we heard tho member of the
dread sisterhood strike a bell upstairs, and exclaim, in
a shrill voice, “ Send up the next one. Sharp’s tho
word,” and “up" accordingly went the lady ia the
lilac print.
* * •
Sorceress, number two, is one of the non-adver-
tisers ; and as she has been fourteen years engaged in
practising the myslio art, we should imagine she is rich
enough by this time to run an outspoken newspaper, or
to 'interview a. member of Parliament, Madame ——
lives ill a substantial-looking stono house, immediately
adjoining an hotel, in William-street, Woolloo-
mooloo. ShO is a little, short, stout, German woman,
with siinb features and small black beady eyes. Her
knowledge of the English language is, notwithstanding
the lengthened period she has illumined Sydney with
her presence, extremely limited, and it is with the
utmost difficulty the casual visitor cau ‘‘ get tho hang”
of her remarks. To this, doubtless, is owing, in a great
measure, the success which has characterised her revela-
tions of the past, the present, and the future.
9 9 9
Madame —— has scruples (conscientious ones,
of course!) on the subject of tolling tho fortunes of
gSntlembn, and this objection to doing business with
members of the male sax is by no means confined to
the William-street magician. When ws went there first,
a man with a baby ia his arms opened the door, and
told us to go upstairs. On the landing we encountered
a pert young woman with her slippers down at heel, and
a general appoaranco of deshabille pervading Per, who
informed us that “ Mrs. didn’t see no gentle-
men." Our resources, however, proving equal to this
emergency. We are enabled to give, in her case also, a
description of the manner in which, magic is dispensed
and witchcraft retailed.
* * *
The room in which Madame —— sees her clients
is a comfortable, carpeted apartment, furnished with a
sofa, chest of drawers, mirror, and an old-fashioned
cupboard. There is a clock to the left of'the mantel-
piece and a bust—either of the Crown Prince of Prussia
or the itev. J. Alexander Dowie—on a round table to
the right of it. Precisely the same property “ gag" was
used with this sorceress, ard with perfectly satisfactory
results. Madame , however, chiefly confines
herself to generalities, such as, ‘‘you wael have goot
successes in life, and much conversations goes on about
you." Servant girls are always told “ peoples admire
you very much,” and the inevitable fair man with the
blue eyes, and the eternal “ dark gentleman,” eome out
of the pack at each, seance as regularly as a bucket
comes out of a well. Being a cut above some of her
sister practitioners, Madame uses piquet cards
in the practise of her profession, and she is as well
known in the neighbourhood in which she resides as
Buchanan is at Mudgee—and respected in almost, but
not quite so gre?.t a degree.
• a *
Madame ——the next on the list, resides in a
little bald-looking house near the corner of Margaret and
Clarence streets. The houses in tho row are so small
and the deors so close together that we went into a lolly-
shop at first hy mistake, and had to spend threepence in
‘‘Scotch mixtures” before we could retire gracefully
from the situation. Madame T. is a lady who labours
under the double disadvantage of being as deaf as a post
and as fierce as an ogress. When she can’t hear what
you have to say, she foams with fury; and when she
does gather the tenor of your remarks, she dances with
passion. Being informed of these peculiarities, it was
not without some trepidation and a stout umbrella that
we approached the ogress’s castle, and we offered up a
prayer for our safety when she opened the door. Like
Madame A—, Madame is small, and beady.
eyed, and foreign. Wo don’t know for certain what
nation can proudly claim her; but, if sho isn’t Dutch,
we should say she must be either Austrian or Swedish.
As we entered the laboratory—which opens on to the
street, and ia likewise the drawing-room, bed-chamber,
and banqueting-hall—two ladies were sitting on chairs
against the wall, putting on their gloves and chatting.
No sooner had we entered, however, than the old dame
bundled them unceremoniously into a little wash-house,
and shutting thorn out, asked our business. We replied
that we should like to hang upon her words in reference
to our future fortunes to the tune of three shillings.
She appeared to consider a minute, during which time
we glanced round the room. There were on the table
one or two poor books, and a small, crazy, plaster cast
of a phrenological head, cheek by jowl with another
specimen in which the top of the skull had been sliced
off and the brains exposed to view. On a dresser were a
few articles of cheap crockery, and a folded table-cloth,
under which was plainly seen tho blackened edges of a
pack of cards.
• * *
“ I tell you vat I do—l dell your bump,” said
Madame. We objected to this, and assured her that as
the last phrenologist had predicted that the worst
results would come of our phrenological developments,
a second essay would be useless. “ Vat you vant den ?”
she asked, gradually (as we thought) “ getting the steam
up.” “Madame,” we said, ‘‘your fame as a fortune-
teller having reached ns, we have to request that y ou
will enlighten us as to a legacy we are expecting—from
Cork.” She looked at us irresolutely—glanced towards
the place where the cards were, when she said, “ No; I
haf given up de card. I vill tell your hump: I do
I uot vant to get into de shail.” Unwilling to be baffled,
wo endeavoured onee again to induce her to give an
exhibition of her magic art, hut all in vain. She even
broke oat into a torrent of the strangest polyglot phrases
—the purport of which wa divined (thoagn we dicta t
understand a word of what she was saying) was that she
desired us to vacate the castle. We, therefore retired,
our equanimity being somewhat disturbed, as wo opened
the door, by marking that the ogress's foreign invective
was intermixed with double peals of silvery laughter
which floated out from behind the wa:h-housedoor.
• ♦ *
Madame D , the student of that afternoon
classic, the illustrations of which a short while ago
caused so profound a sensation in the artistic world,
onr readers will be aware resides near Foveaux-
street, off Elizabeth-street, and at her residence also gives
advico to the weary traveller, and the mystic _et
cetera ” to womankind generally, Madame’s mansion
is tho fifth house of a gritty little terrace, the blinds in
which appear to be all drunk, and the knockers rem-
nants of the dark ages. When wo arrived there first,
Madame opened the door in person, aid informed us
that she was not in. She is tail, and stout, and dark—
her hair being iron-grev, and brushed up from the fore-
head in the French style. This, however (if wo except
a large tortoise-shell comb), was the only thing foreign
about Madame . The only French town we can
possibly imagine her to have been born in is Murrum-
burtah. As she told us she was out, and as we have
been too Well brought up to doubt the word of a lady
(much less of a sorceress !) wo had to once again retire
(this time, we trust, with more grace than from tho
castle of the ogress), and pro iced to the adoption of
other tactics. *
» * *
The apartment in which Madame — — l makes
known to the world tho whisperings of another Sphere
is a small front-room, which smells of hash, and tho
chief ornament of which is a huge china bowl that is
kept in the middle of.tho dining-table. The floor is
covered with Chinese matting, and the general aspect
of the furniture leads the beholder of it to the con-
clusion that It is an old and valued friend of the Pitt-
street brokers. Madame’s attire, for a lady of her
condition, is decidedly unstudied. It consists of a
black loose jacket, unequally fastened with pins—so
much so, that the gaps between the fastenings reveal,
at times, dark secrets of the toilette, which, from their
grisly nature, are best buried in obscurity. Looking
at Madame from a sorceress point of view, it
must bo admitted that there is less of the weird about
her than the Washerwoman. She impressed ns rather
as being snuffy than •' dread,” and her conversational
manner was a good deal more suggestive of mangling
than magic. As, however, she mixed up her private
affaifs and news items from the paper, with her fortune-
telling, it Was difficult at times to get the drift of what
she was aiming at. She was singularly frank, too;
because, in an interval between the cuts, she said:
« Well, you know, when I see they likes to be flattered,
why Hays it on thick; and, you bet, it goes down !
For the ‘'fortune” part of it, her patter may be set
down as follows: —
# a #
“ The money you ekpeot you will get, some, but
not all of it, and there is a removal for you across the
water. (I’m frightened to death of the small-pox;
they’ve got it two streets off.) The dark man that you
think is your friend, will perhaps turn out contrairy ; so
mind him, and take care who you trust. (Dreadful
thing that policeman’s case. Hope he gets six months.)
There is prosperity for you—the cards say it, but some
vexatious surround it, and a sure ‘ uprise ’ “ [term of the
trade 1 J " awaits you. Steer your course as you are
steerin' of it now, and all will be well. IE so bo as things
haven’t gone to your liking lately, bear up, for it’s all
for your own good. (The price or meat is something
awful, and the butcher’s that oheeky too—will snap the
nose off your face if you haaard a remark.)”
* * *
It became evident to ns at an early period of
this ma'no entertainment, that Madame was a
mere tyro nt tho art, of even of the primitive fortune-
telling she makes her living at. What wo have given
above was the outcome of only one cut of the cards,
but as she proceeded tho whole thing got as mixed as
Hungarian Salad. Her charge for this splendid exbibi-
tion of necromantic skill was “ what you please, only I
never cut tho cards under three shillings. Like
Madame , she left it to yourself after a three-
shilling margin, # #
It was getting towards dnsk as we drove in the
direction of the abode of Gipsy . We bad called
at her residence during the day hut had found her from
home (it was a Government House reception day), and
having had no better luck with Anna Lee, another
“ gipsy ” who lives near Moore Park, we returned to
—— r s abode in the gloaming. The residence of this
dabbler in the black art is in Clarence-street, next door
to the Tontine Hotel. The front door is down two
crazy steps, but you have no need to knock and ask for
t for she improves twelve shining hours out
of the twenty-four sitting on the door-step smoking a
nose-warmer. 'Twas thus we found her, and upon our
introducing ourselves she desired us to step inside.
Not without some misgivings with regard to the gold
chronograph presented to us hy the combined body or
the Booriugoballah Baptists, wo entered the place, and
as a departing ray of sunlight flickered in through the
dirty window, we took a mental sketch of our hostess.
» * •
Imagine, then, a little wpman dressed in a gown
the colour of a tea-leaf after a very long infusion, with
man’s bluchers on her feet, and the accumulated dirt
of (say) a quarter of a century upon her hands and
features. Small her face, and almost black, and so
cracked with lines and fissures that her physiognomy
is the positive presentment of a carved walnut. It is
distressing to haveto make an uncomplimentary remark
wb°re a lady is concerned, bat on the occasion of cur
Visit it would be idle to deny that Gipsy was in
that blissful condition known to all who have passed a
Board of Trade examination as ‘‘three sheets in the
wind.” When we were together, and the door was
closed, Mrs. lit her pipe from a box of safety.
matches she carried with other property (possibly her
coals) in her bosom, and said, “ Well, and what’s your
little game ?” We replied that her fame as a fortune-
teller having been bruited afar, we had come from Mel-
bourne expressly to have experience of her talents at
second-sight. “ Come from Melbourne, eh ?” said Mrs.
_ . “ have ye, indeed. Then if ye’ve coma all tlat
far, ’five bob won’t hurt ye.” This way of putting it,
albeit it rather took us hy surprise for the moment,
seemed reasonable enough, so having, in compliance
with a request stated in those terms “anted up the
greed,” Gipsy took our hand in hers, and opening
the door so as to get more light, followed with tho edge
of a half-crown tho veins of our right palm, and spoke
as follows—like some old mag-pie—without a single
inflexion of voice or a single stop
• * *
“ Your trouble’s with a fair chap and a dark
gal that gal’s a bit flighty hut her art’s right and
you’ve got it you’ve just come a journey over the
water hut you’re agoin’ back agin and the gal will go
wid yer there’s trouble for yon ahead but you’ll
come out of it fljin’ money’s the cause of that trouble
and there’s a fair woman and a dark man mixed up in it
and vexations will come of it there’s money for you and
property and ono is watchiu’ over you which you
don’t think you’ve got smartness but you’re too fond
of drink and playing skittles with tho boys money is
for you in a way you don’t expect and . Now you
can clear out, ’cause I’m goin’ to move directly."
» • •
We left, of course, much impressed. We had
sampled an industry which appears to be known to
everybody in Sydney except the police, and wero pleased
to bo once more in a position to call their attention to
a class of persons who are daily infringing the law.
Were it simply another case of rowdy larrikins and
Bay Bacchante's, wo should, of course, say nothing.
We have merely called attention to the manner in
which gullible people are thus plundered by fortune-
tellers, in order to see if the shore policemen will
strive to repress an evil when it is pointed out to them.
Tho picaio policeman we have given up long ago.
gggT It will be seen that in the above sketch we
have omitted names and addresses We could furnish
both,—and believe that to do so would be a public
benefit; but would we he safe in this exposi, according
to Chief Justice Martin’s recent ruling? Anyone of the
impostors engaged in this illegal work might sue us for
[ libel, and convict on a paragraph written about some
person else, respecting which we should not he afforded
an opportunity of offering a word of explanation or a
1 tittle of evidence.—[Bd. B.]


JgiaNOß, GrIOYANNI
THE
AUSTRALIAN BARITON
(Eeaontly arrived from a thre
and study in Ital
Desires to announce that his
FIRST CONCERT II
will take place at
MASONIC
Under the Patronago'of
HIS HONOR MB. JUSTICI
HIS HONOR MR. D.C. JUD(
SIR PATRICK A. JENNINGS
EDWARD COMBES, ESQ.,
R. BUEDETT SMITH,
(DANIEL O’CONNOR, 1
HARRIS WOOD, ESQ., UNB
DR. MARANO, CONSUL
PERCY COWPEB,
JAMES CURTIS,
S. ACKERMANN,
&C. &c. &c
on
Tuesday Evening Next,3l
when he will be ass
MDLLE. ALICE CHA
Pianiste.
MISS DELZI
Soprano.
Mrs. T. O'SULLIVAN G
Mezzo-Soprar
(Pupil of Mme-LUCY CHATS!
appearance in Syc
MONSIEUR DUI
Violinist
(fronY Liege, his first appear*
Mr. HINCHI
Tenor.
Mr, CHARLES HUEI
• and
Herr HUGO AL
Accompany ist
Admission:
Reserved (numbered) Seats, ss.
CENTRE SEATS and GALLE!
BACK SEATS, 2s.
| |PLAN of the RosorvodJJSoats, al
A. HUENERBEIN, 411,' George
TICKETS may also be obtain
W. MADDOCK, 383, Qeorge-strei
JJ IGHL A N D G A
ON NEW YEAR’S D
PROGRAMME OF 1
HIGHLAND PIPING and Hl<
for Adults and Boys (under 15);
£43. For particulars sec future adi
Hornpipe; three prizes, £1 10a,
Jig, £2, £l. Pole Vaulting. £4, £2
Jump, £2. £1; and other events.
FLAT RACES—(To be run in
requisite). 100 yards Maiden Ph
have never won an advertised priz
THIS EVENT]
Gilbert and Sullivan’s New.
PATIENCE.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Deo
menoe at 8.
Q P E E A E
Lessee and Manager
Stage Manager ]
Continued succee
Miss MAEaTON I
and
Mr. JAMES CAE
THIS EVENING (Thursday)
(Fridayj, by express desire, the
EAST LYNN]
EAST LYNN]
Lady Isabel Miss
Archibald Carlyle ... ... Mr
Saturday Evening will be prodi
since Mr. Carden’s return—
THE STEEETS OP NI
BADGES, his great impersonate
Admission—ss., Ss., 25,, Is. Boa
bein’s, Qeorgo-street.
w
I L S
GEEAT WOELI
POPULAE PEI(
MILLION PEIC
TO SUIT THE T]
An Opportunity for all to wi
Farewell Performs
SEDUCTION IN P
From a pecuniary point of view
afford to do this—his troupe of
performers is the most expensive
tralia —but he has fully determii
woman, and child in Sydney shall
and grandest circus on earth; i
FAEEWELL ENTER!
Previous to retiring into private
prices within the reach of the m
COME AND BE M
Come, and judge if Mr. Wilson’s
the palm against all other pel
refined, chastening, inspiriti
provoking mfluen
The Circus is magnificently flttei
costly, and comfortabli
ADMISSION CHAI
First-class, formerly ..
reduced to
Stalls, formerly
reduced to
Amphitheatre and Family Circle, i
to the
MILLION PEICE OF ONI
Children under 10, ha
A few private Boxes, to hold pai
Keserved single seats in privati
V INEGAR WORKS
MISS CLAEA HAM
will give one of 1
POPULAR ENTEETj
in aid of the Families bereaved bj
the above works, h
PROTESTANT
on
MONDAY, 19th DECEN
Tickets: 35., 25., Is., may be c
cipal Music Establishments; also,;
yiNEGAB CA
DON’T OVERLOOK THE GRAI
SUFFERERS, on MONDAY, 12
PROTESTANT HALL, by SYD
E. C. CHAPI
fJIWA OORS A
MISS CLARA HAMILTON'S C
CONCERT.
SCHOOL OF ARTS, AS
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTI
WHEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or
the ruling principles at the
PALACE EMPO
HATMARKET (ONLY]
ANTHONY HORDERN AN[
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES
the soundness of those principles upon which their business
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PAI
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. "W
OUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SI
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. Yoi
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASH-
MERE, BEIGE, Ac.
DRESSMAKING.
MANCHESTER
GOODS.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
LADIES A CHILDREN
MANTLES. COS-
TUMES, MILLI-
NERY, Ac.
.••FANCY" GOODS.
YOUTHS’ and MEN’S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ONLY ONE ADDRESS
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have a
and la lOd per yard. Of the truly splei
there are 2000 yards at 2s per yard ; 220*
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3 c
10s 6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT G
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s (
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS to
it will be long before you forget them. 1
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH
yard. There is the fashionable SAR.
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, i
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colour
We have a most efficient DRESSMi
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly
There are CALICOES in all makes i
FIGURED from s*d; TABLE DAMA!
all prices, and COTTON DIAPER at6d
Is 3d ; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ra
from lOd up to Is 9d. There are TI
HONEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERS]
and the “RENOWNED VELVET PILJ
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. Tl
laced. They are durable and fashionabh
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LAB
There are 330 beautiful DOLMANS ai
COSTUMES. There is every sort of sba
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sigh
There are RIBBONS, all shades, all
Spanish, Cream, Gold, REAL BREI
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innume
There is a continuous stream of Cusl
Boys, and for our well-known cheap a
SUITS, SHIRTS. HATS, CAPS, CO
for men.
And the great point to be observed
address, and NO BRANCHES whatever
ANTHONY HORDERN
THE PALACE EM
HAYM A R K
(ONLY,)
!S Y D N E Y.
KEROSENE 150'
THIS VE
AM EEI
IS NO
Tor Safety, Parity, i
NO SM O B
It is packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in ca
Nozzles, of which the undersigned are the Sole
naoked emreaalv to their order end atror-a tin mm
Mark.
Trade


HBFKJDSFKJHSK
The members of the Derwent band, New Nor- |
folk, presented their leader, Mr. Ellston, with an *lB
silver-plated comet, a fortnight ago. He had instructed
them two evenings a week for two years, gratis.
The whole of the Highfield Estate, forming the
heart of Waverley, is to be offered for sale on the 17th
December, by Messrs. Hardie and Gorman. This land
is described as about the only available areas for
building sites now remaining at Waverley. The sale is
advertised early to allow thorough inspection.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 1880.
, Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received
1 —Adv.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Under the title of “ A Romantic Family,” Mr.
W. S. Gilbert’s farcical comedy 11 Tom Cobb, or
Fortune’s Toy,” was produced by Mr. and Mrs. Carden
at the Opera House, on Saturday night. This play is
one abounding in humour, and positively bristling with
situations, but the character parts in the comedy are,
with two exceptions, of a somewhat shadowy nature —
that is, if we are to accept as the author’s conceptions
the interpretation of the various parts presented to
the pnblic at Mr. Wilson’s theatre. Before witnessing
the representation of the comedy, we made a point of
reading it carefully, and wo have no hesitation in say-
ing that the version of it rendered at the Opera House
is utterly at variance with the idea which a careful
perusal of the play inspired us.
• • •
A erreat deal of the “ business ” set down by
Mr. Gilbert is omitted, and antics of a foreign descrip-
tion substituted. In the play, for instance, the follow-
ing occurs :—‘‘o’Fi. Well, sorr, let us come to the
p’int. For two months ye’ve been engaged to my
lovely and accomplished daughter Don’t cry, my
lova. (To Matilda.) Mat. No, pa. {Takes an egg.")
Well, any one will see that the Colenel’s daughter
taking ah egg at this junctnfc is a great point ; but at
the Opera House, Mrs. Holloway neglected to do so,
hot only on one, hut on two occasions. «
• * •
Mr. James Carden’s Colonel O’Fipp was, wcare
compelled to state, either a mistaken study or a oareless
performance. Anyhow, it was not the O’Fipp of Mr.
Gilbert. Mrs. Holloway’s Matilda was also a mistake,
since it is plainly set forth in the play that she is only
“twenty-four and a bit,” whereas Mrs. Holloway, how-
ever charming she may be, has an appearance which is
—to put it mildly—of a matronly description. The
performance of Mr. E. B. Boothman as Tom Cobb was
a very terrible business, indeed. Ho was “ letter-per-
fect,” dt is true; but though he had studied his part
carefully, it did not seem that he could ever have read
the comedy in its entirety. It is, in any case, a charity
to him to suppose this. Ho dressed the part in the first
act like a comic singer in mufti, and his acting through-
out was of the feeblest description. Mrs. Patterson, to
onr surprise, made nothing of Whipple; but Mr. J. H.
Martin was effective as Bulstrode Effingham.
• * •
Miss Marston Leigh’s interpretation of Caroline
Effiiugham was, so far as we are able to judge, a per-
formance which, though generally meritorious, was
deficient in light and shade. It is a splendid part, and
should keep the audience in a roar, hut Mrs. Carden was
somehow or other unsuccessful in arousing the risible
emotions of the spectators. Here now is a bit of ab-
surdity that should convulse the house: —“ Mat. Ye’re
net goin’ ? Cae. No; I have come to spend a long,
long day, I'm going to take my bonnet off. (Solemnly.)
Dear Matilda, we have not met for many many years,
and I long—l cannot tell you, Matilda, how earnestly I
long—to see all your new things 1" Yet, curiously
enough, when Miss Marston Leigh spoke the lines, not
a single laugh resounded through the theatre.
• • •
Mr. and Mrs. Cardon are, doubtless, talented
people, but, if we are to judge by “ A Romantic Family,”
light comedy is by no moans the particular branch of
the drama that is suited to their abilities.
** * *
The legitimate not having proved a draw at the
Gaiety Theatre, Mr. Dampier, on Saturday evening,
once more tried his luck with the sensational. The
piece selected was entitled “ All for Gold,” and is a
dramatisation of Engeno Sue’s “Le Juif Errant,”
written by no less a parson than “Francis Hopkins,
Esq., of Perieoota, New South Wales,” a gentleman
who is considered by his relations to be possessed of
literary ability of a very high order. “All for Gold ”
has been produced here before, and will probably be
produced here again; because, being full of bustle,
sentiment, and situation, it will ever bo popular with
the non-critical pitite. Neither on the score of con
struction, however, nor of dialogue, can “Francis
Hopkins, Esq., of Perieoota, New South Wales,” he
especially congratulated upon hi* efforts as a dramatist,
the story being difflcultto follow, and the conversation*
of the various characters either feebly funny or
maudlinly—to coin a word —sentimental. The play, as
a whole, however, is effective, and it was put on the
stage in a manner typical of the now acknowledged
free-handedness of the management,
* * •
The acting, as a whole, was good, the oast being
of exceptional strength, including, as it did, Mr.
• Dampier, his children, Mr. W. G. Carey, Miss Amie
Adere, Mr. Sam Poole, and Mr, Edwin Palmer. Mr.
Dampier’s impersonation is well and favourably known,
and has, since we last saw it, lost none of its effective-
ness. Lily, since we last saw her, has gained in years,
and lost in animation; but Rose exhibits a versatility
which, in one so young, is positively surprising. There
is, unless we are greatly mistaken, a brilliant future
before this little lady. A song she sang during the
piece “brought down the house,” her business and
her dp lonib being perfeet in their way. A benefit, by the
way, will be tendered to these clever cbiUDen to-morrow
(Friday) night. We trust on this occasion to see a
crowded audience in the theatre, and to behold the
young ladies greeted with a cordial accueil,
• * •
Mias Adere was pleasing, though not particu-
larly brilliant, as the wife of Dagobert. Mr. E. Pal-
mer’s impersonation of Joseph Salvador was a remark-
able one, his make-np being in the last degree artistic,
and his conception was highly intelligent, even to the
minutest detail. Mr. Palmer is undoubtedly one of the
best —if not the very best —“old man” upon the Syd-
ney stage at the present time. Mr. W. G. Carey played
Morok, tha lion tamer, with that sterling ability that
characterises all his performances, and Mr. Sam Poole
was amusing as Karl. Miss Marion Melrose made a lot
of fun out of Ninette, and Miss Theresa Horan, as
Katerina, looked like a study by Jourdan that had
stepped out of its frame. Mr. Alfred Boothman looked
every inch a General as Simon, and spoke his lines with
good effect; and Mr. H. Emmett was quite “too-too,”
as the Abbe Gabriel.
« • *
On Saturday night, we believe, Pettitt’s ‘‘Black
Flag ” will be produced, and, if what we hear of lit be
true, it ought to draw all Sydney. Mr. L. M. Bayless
deserves a word of praise for the strenuous efforts he
mikes to successfully cater for the theatre-going por-
tion of the community, and Mr. Sinclair’s unwearying
efforts to secure the comfort of tha audience are
worthy of special recognition. In conclusion, we may
add that Mr. J. Cox is treasurer of the theatre, and
that the betting at present is 4 to 1 on the field.
** * *
As we predicted, “ Patience ” has turned out to
be a gigantic success, and its run in Sydney will bid
fair to rival that of any piece ever produced here.
Miss Maggie Moore played Lady Jane for the last time
on Tuesday night, and on Wednesday her place was
taken by Mademoiselle Andrea Navaro, an opera-bonffe
artist of some experience and reputed ability. Made-
moiselle’s voice is a soprano of considerable range, its
timbre being of much purity, and her organ exhibiting
great cultivation. A critical notice of Mademoiselle
Navaro’s performance will bo given next week.
# # #
The Williamsons left for New Zealand, viA
Melbourne, on Wednesday night. Our good wishes go
with them. Maggie Moore’s merry face will indeed be
missed by the frequenters of the Theatre Royal, and
her absence will be regarded fey many hundreds of her
admirers in the light of quito a national calamity.
They open at the Princess’s, Dunedin (N.Z.), on Boxing
night, and tho sucoesa of the Dutchman and his
daughter in Maoriland is a foregone conclusion.
Splendid artists, both of them: they go, are seen, and
invariably conquer.
** * *
To-morrow (Friday), at the Victoria Hall, the
Lytton Dramatic Club will give what they term a
“ Complimentary Performance,” of which we hope to
be able to speak in complimentary terms. The secre-
tary is Mr. J. T. Hunt, and he writes a very nice hand.
** * *
Johnny Solomon and Harry Richardson have
taken the ground upon which the “ Go-as-you-please ”
people established their hippodrome, and are about to
start a show of a novel and startling nature. An Ameri-
can lady (probably a Bonanza Queen in disguise) will
walk the racehorse. Fireball, for £lOO, and there will be
" Go-as-you-pleases " between women, Chinamen, Ka-
nakas—everything, in fact, except angels. A frog
tournament is also talked of, each man to bring his own
frog, and watch the combat from his own gin-case; and
there will be other attractions, for particulars of which
we refer our readers to small bills and to Johnny.
£* * *
Our notice on tie Bixrwood concert last week
( was unavoidably crowded out.
** * *
The Mendelssohn Quintette Clnb has proved a
perfect “ frost" at Newcastle. A dog and monkey show
is what the “ Geordies” sigh for, and Mendelssohn has
to take a back seat .when opposed by the silvery sounds
I of Billy Wilson,
** * *
Things theatrical are lively in Melbourne. Mr.
Coppin is playing his farewell engagement at the Royal
to crowded houses, aud “ The Gur’nor,’’ played by Mr.
Fred. Marshall at the Princess's, is a phenomenal
success. Musgrove’s crowd are doing “Les Cloches
de Corneville” at the Opera House. Wybert Reeve
has been appearing in “Stolen Kisses" at the Bijou;
and Maccabe is still drawing crowds to St. George’s
Hall, a place of amusement ha will probably occupy for
ever.
** * *
The great James South and his funny crowd go
to the Theatre Royal, Brisbane, for the Christmas
season, producing “ Hero and LConder,” and followed
by “Opera.” There’s "millions in it.” Good luck,
James; shall he glad to see you back.
* * *
A play called “ Uncle Isaac ” was recently pro-
duced at San Francisco. It is written in order to ideal-
ize the Jews, and the whole thing from start to finish
appears to bo as entertaining as one of Frank Warden’s
discourses. Gently criticising it, the Argonaut says :
“ There is one thing to be said for ‘ Uncle Isaac,’ that
it is consistent in its badness. Everything is bad. The
construction is bad, the language is bad, and the actors
are bad." Now, if we were to write like this of a piece,
with the libel law in its present condition, we should
have soma half-starved cellar-flapper “spouting” his
pewter crown and velveteen trunks on purpose to pay a
lawyer to take proceedings against us. Having so long
been accustomed to the platitudes of a milk-and-soder
press, some of the actors in Sydney have at length come
to forget that they are “lawful game” for the pen of
the critic. But it is with actors as with other mortals :
it is the howling failures, the shoddy tragedian, and the
“thirty-five bobbers,” who are the most intolerant.
Give one of these starvelings a couple of “ long beers,”
robs him in a cotton-velvet cloak, put a cardboard diadem
on his head, and a plaster sceptre into his hand, and he
will immediately imagine himself naturally imbued with
the dignity of a real monarch. Again, let a broken-
hearted manager give a “couple of sides” to a hoarse-
voiced, red-nosed “super,” and that individual will
consider himself “ a star ” directly; and when he gets
drunk (which means frequently) he will pitch to his
friends about how the pit rose at him, and how he “got
'em, by God, sir, from the jump.” To these pasteboard
and sawdust mutilators of the Queen’s English, we
feelingly inscribe the following lines
Hail, crushed tragedians, in sword and cloak!
We pledge yon in your favourite “ she-oke.”
Long may you live to gleam resplendent stars
On public side-walks, and in small pub. bars!
Though empires fall, e’en with succeeding years
The world shall breathless watch yow great careers !
Illustrious wights, your noble souls are great.
E’en though the “ text ” ye can’t enunciate;
And of your speeches, if ye can’t make sense,
Your quiv’ring souls the world knows are— immense!
Mysterious men 1 beneath those crowns of tin.
How much bright genius is there hid within P
How much that’s weird —that’s bom of ter-ragedie—
How much a panting hemisphere icon’t see ?
How much but no more lines our space affords;
So, for the present—go to Hay, yon frauds!
** * *
After all, Gilbert and Sullivan don’t know
everything, do they ? From the Buerangong Argus
we learn that the “ Australian Comedy and Opera
Bonffe Co.” have been doing the town and “ Pinafore,"
and in order to relieve the monotony of the piece, and
to infuse a refined and intellectual tone into it also, the
comedy Captain introduces one Mr. Harry Cottier,
who plays tho part of Sergeant of Marines, and who
“amuses the ship’s company, and tho people in the
auditorium, to®, with a hornpipe played on a tin whistle,
and discourses sweet music on the dulcimer,” this
being the principal part of a Marine Sergeant’s “ dooty.”
Miss Blanche Murray also has a say in this “ revised
edition,” and plays the part of Cousin Hebe in breeches I
At least, the Argus says she comes out in a sailor’s
dress, and does a hornpipe in such a finished back-kiok
style, that she is always encored, and the very sight of
her oyster-bag pantaloons is the signal for rounds of
40-horse power applause. If the Comedy crowd keep
on “improving” the Britisher’s work, we may shortly
hear that Sir Joseph Porter stood on his head on a
flying bare-backed steed, whilst Little Buttercup bal-
anced a spinning plate on her nose, and Josephine
swallows salamander halls, carpet snakes, and a 3-ft.
Damascus sword. A dog and monkey show might
also be introduced, and as the " learned pig” is up the
Argus side, he might be taught to conduct the or-
chestra, or at least take the " auditorium ” tickets.
"THE POOR PLAYER. "
Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession .]
Zulu Thompson writes from Hobart that ho and
his show proceeded to Invercargill, N.Z., where they
were to finish on November 27, after a splendid run of
eight nights. Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, to follow, for
a month; thenOamaru, Timaru, and Christchurch, at
which latter place the Academy of Music has been en-
gaged for the Exhibition month The Mackay (Q.)
Amateur Dramatic Club gave an entertainment last
week. The play supposed to have been represented
was “London Assurance.” Some venomous people
said it should have been “ Mackay Assurance.” The
author was greatly applauded A London paper
asserts that Adelina Patti has refused £12,000 for
twelve performances in Australia! Lotti V/ilmot,
for having used abusive language to G. W. Moon,
secretary of the Papanui Town Hall Company, Canter-
bury, N.Z. was fined one shilling, and for assaulting
him with a stick was fined £5. She was also ordered to
pay costs in both cases ameunting to £5 10s, the total
amount being £lO lls. Lotti sues the Papanui Town
TTnll Company, for £l7O damages for breach of contract
and injury to professional reputation. At latest she
was lecturing and giving spiritualistic seances at
Christchurch. Last Monday week the choir of St.
John’s Church, Parramatta, gave a splendid concert in
the School of Arts, consisting of sacred and secular
music. It was anticipated that a large audience would
put in an appearance; but, to the surprise of many,
the attendance was poor. High-class entertainments
are thrown away in the historic borough. When next
these choristers appear in public, they should intro-
duce into the programme a nigger break-down, and a
select assortment of corner gags; these, backed up by
the distribution of shell boxes, penny whistles, and
tins of sardines, would ensure them a bumper house.
# * *
The once famous dancer Yenturoli is now a public
beggar in New York. She is lame, and repulsive in form
and feature The French custom of operatic artists
and musical people before making a public appearance
leaving their cards at the houses of the recognised
critics of the principal newspapers is being followed to
a limited extent in London The highest salary paid
bv the French opera is £4BOO a year to M. Laaeelle j
Maurel gets £4000; Yilliret, £2400; Sellicr, £1800;
Mdlle. Kraus, £32100; Mdlle. Bichard, £2400; and
Mdlle! Pious, £BOO A genuine theatrical sensation is
in prospect in Paris. Permission is said to have been
granted by the Prefecture of Police to the Director of
the Porte St. Martin to exhibit real lions in the last
scene of “ BLche au Bois,” and the most extravagant
reports are current about the outlay on the mounting
of the extravaganza. One scene alone is estimated to
cost £6OO A pretty Paris actress sues a railway com-
pariy for £3)00 damages to her nose by a trarf Iwringf
thrown froth' the truck Missi Gnswold, Brat Hartea
niece, is spoken of in England as a vocalist of great
possibilities, with an expressive countenance and a good
flgnro . ...The Baldwin Theatre/ 'Frisco, is now
brilliantly lighted with petroleum gas made on
the premises The Scandinavian Shuffle Tourists,
who resemble the Salisbury Troubadours, and
of which company Miss Tilly Andrews is a promi-
nent member, are highly popular in the States,
drawing crowded houses wherever they g0,.....The son
(natural) of leotard the trapezist. who once msemated
London, has Just inherited £200,000. Lyotard was the
son of a rich JiierChaut at Toulouse, who disinherited
him because of his performing in public, and lieotam
on his deathbed wrote a letter to his father, asking him
to provide for his eon. Tho old gentleman ac-
ceded to Le'otmxVa reguest, to the above amount.
Mdlle. Bernhardt is making money as fast as she Hires.
By three representations, which she has just given au
Lyons, she “ netted ” over £loOO. Ifer provincial tour
terminates with the thirty-eighth representation.
It is said that her total receipts have already
reached £15.000 Lingard’s “Stolen Kisses
company comprises six men and six women. Charles
Overton and Dickie Lingard play the Temples, father
and daughter...... According to the Eba Mr. Morton
Tavares, the “ West Indian tragedian, has returned
to England after an absence of eleven years.......At a
performance of “Pinafore” in Boston, the conductor
of the orchestra “sang the entire opera himself, with
the Company, in his desire to have a perfectly smooth
rendering. 1 ' .There are few beautiful women who are
content to appear in Inexpensive clothes when they can
afford costly ones; but, in America, Alice Dunning s
Alixe is thus spoken of(Talking of simple mushn,
what a magic Alice Lingard has in transforming the
most commonplace, everyday material to beauty ana
elegance. Notwithstanding that they are celebrated,
her costumes very rarely represent much ra.j'jeia
money. Nut she dispenses a faultless taste upon their
fashioning, and nothing prettier than vision of
white and blue, this new Alixe, has stepped from out tho
wings this many a day.” There is a Chinese tbeat e
in San Francisco, and there's a great run just now on a
new play: but what seems most curious is the' plot.
It's not known whether the Chinese author took it
from the Bible, cr the Bible took it from the Chinese
author; but the plot is neither more nor loss than tne
old story of Potipbar’s wife 1 The Joseph
in this case is the leading man, and his virtuous de-
clination of the lady's advances is most impressive, it
moves even the Chinamen, and Celestial audiences are
not easily moved. The old Biblical story is closely
followed, with the exception of the mantle. Xne
woman, smarting under her discomfiture, flies to ne-
lord, and accuses Joseph of—well, overhaul your Old
Testament, and when found, make a note of. VV nere-
ever the plot comes from, it is evident that there hare
been Potiphars and Potiphars’ wives all over the world.
It also shows how dear to tho mind of man is that
pleasing belief in Joseph. Men cling to it as they
do to a belief in ghosts, and parents, too, with a
delicious, unconscious, and anticipatory satire, name
their children Joseph. But wo don't know tnat
we ever met a Joseph outside a story b00k.......
The Surrey Theatre, London, opened recently with a
new sensational drama in seven acts called ‘ Mankind,
The novelty of the performance consists in the age of
tho personae dramatis being given, from Groode, who
is 101, to Jessie, who is only eight. We wonder how the
actresses will like it. Fifty-seven principal theatres
in different parts of the world have been destroyed by
fire this year The London Polytechnic is no more.
This from the S. F. Newslettee “We have never
seen a conjuror who did his work in a cleaner and a
neater way than ‘Baron’ Seeman, and we only regret
that a man of his clove rnessa should stoop to such
cheap clap-trap as a bogus title I" _ln Sydney, this
sentence would mean £5OOO The nighu Bret Harte s
cousin, Miss Griswold, sang Marguerite in Fajist,
for the second time at Paris, the receipts were ~15»0,
The lessee doubled her salary A grand English opera
has been made out of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.’......Miss
Nillsson was hissed at her last appearance in Loudon....
Herbert Beeves, son of the great tenor, was to makehxs
operatic debut at Glasgow recently, as Artnro in
“ Lucia.” Madame Yalleria was to play Lucia, and the
great Sima himself was to sing Edgardo .Ellen fi erry,
the reigning favourite at the Loudon Lyceum, has taken
to herself her third husband. Both the others are alive,
wnd as well as can be expected King Louis, of
Bavaria, is regarded as stage crazy, and is always
attempting to create new footlight effect?. Lately ne
-ouctived the idea of agitating the waters of an arti-
ficial !akc by mechanical means in such a way as to
imitate a storm. When the waters were boisterous
enough he embarked alone on his gondola and was
promptly upset. Luckily the courtiers disobeyed the
royal commands, watched their ruler and saved him
At the first performance of a new play in Borne, re-
cently, everything went well until the leading lady, in a
thrilling situation in the third act, spoke the lino :
“ Coward 1 like the most of men 1" This hurt the feel-
ings of the stronger sex, and the theatre echoed with
hisses and howls until the curtain had to be dropped
and the stage manager appeared to explain that the
actress had made a slip of the tongue and should have
said “Coward! like tho most of rascals !” The late
celebrated French clown, Auriol, entered the circus as
a performer when but four years old. As an example
of his skill, he frequently ran $* fast as the horse In the
ring went around the fence which divided ring from
seats. The top of this fence was a velvet covered rail-
ing not three inches wide. He made nothing of leaping
from the ring on a horse's back, the steed urged to full
■peed, and securing a scat in front of or behind the rider;
and as for running round the ring on his hands and
taming somersaults as he went, these feats came easily
to him.
POLITICAL POINTS.
When the news of Mr. Parnell’s arrest reached
Cork, most of the shopkeepers put up their shutters.
Mr. J. T. Gannon and Mr. L. F. Heydon nomi-
nated for Argyle. Mr. Banken retired from the contest.
The show of hands was in Mr. Gannon’s favour.
It has transpired that the son of one of the phy-
sicians attendant on Garfield made use of his informa-
tion as to the President’s condition for stock-jobbing
purposes.
“The Irish,” says Mr. Eedmond, M.P., “owe
no gratitude to Mr. Gladstone. The authors of the
I,!ind Bill, such as it is, are the men imprisoned in
Kilmainham Gaol.”
A New Zealand writer, after summarising the
members of the Legislative Council in that colony,
makes the following analysis Useless members, 21;
fairly good members, 13; able men, 9 : total, 43.
Dublin Castle is now jealously guarded as in
times of war.’ Three heavy guns point at the town. A
picket surrounds the Chief Secretary’s lodge at Phcemx
Park, and every officer in the garrison remains in
barracks.
The Colonial Treasurer says the colony loses
£1,750,000 in pastoral rents, owing to free selection
before survey. What has his late colleague. Sir John
Eobertson, to say to this ? We’d give a trifle to see a
new Land Bill from Mr. James Watson.
The fact of the Tasmanian Coalition Govern-
ment having rejected the proposition for a tramway on
the West Coast, from Macquarie Harbour to the mines
at Mount Hemskirk, has caused great discontent at the
latter place. The various companies are idle for want
of provisions and horse-feed, which arrive only occa-
sionally per steamer. If no tramway is laid down,
Melbourne capital will open up a trade and secure all
the consequent advantages. Then Hobart and Latin-
ceston may "go to sleep” again.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Lefroy has left this fleeting show. Previous to
his departure, however, ho confessed to about _l5
murders, 12 arsons, 7 burglaries, 4 highway robberies,
and 17 wholesale bigamies; but a proud smile broke over
his classic face as he laid his hand on his manly breast,
and said that as bad as he was on the average, still he
never bought shares in Milbum Creek, at more than
four times their real value —never took a Corporation
contract—and never ran a gas company show with
“ faked” meters. How many of us can honestly say the
same without running the risk of Ananias ?
• • •
Speaking of President Garfield’s murder, the
Lakcet says:—“ Tho original injury was not one neces-
sarily fatal. Death resulted solely from * accidents’ in
its course, and it may be taken as so far an example of
n jfailnre of surgery.” “Accidents” is good. And yot
the barbarians over there are trying Guiteau, who had
nothing whatever to do with the President’s death,
beyond releasing the spring of a cheap revolver.
Doctors seem to have as much protection in the laud of
Columbus as they have in that of Cook. And why is it ?
Frisky old Fergy, of the Parramatta Paste-
t, boasts that he has been in the same neighbourhood
and at the same address for the past 20 years, Fergy
therefore has the bulge on bushranger Power, as the
latter has only been 15 years at his present address—
1’cntridgc.
# # #
Ladies travelling by rail are requested not to
drop pint bottles of Battle-axe, and then say, 11 Tlu re
goes that bottle of ketchup 1" It isn’t honest, and
other ladies, whose dresses happen to get sprinkled, go
homo and get frightful accusations brought against
them by lords and masters with omniscient olfactories.
This paragraph is suggested hy something which
occurred at Eedfern on Friday.
An alcoholised gentleman waa taken to the In-
firmary on Sunday week, and there are two remarkable
circumstances connected with his case. In the first
I>lace, he was unconscious when picked up, and his
pockets were neatly padded with a bank receipt for
£1840, some gold nuggets, diamond rings, bank notes,
and a few other trifling articles of a like description.
He didn’t lose a cent. In the second place, ho recovered.
This is getting sexious, and in the morning breeze we
fancy wo begin to sniff the great millennium.
« # •
Tho following are the glowing terms in which
the members of the staff of one of our greatest Life
Insurance Companies hare memorialized a deserving
brother officer on the birth of his first baby“ Dear
Sir,—On this auspicious occasion we approach you with
feelings of speechless admiration and unalloyed ecstasy,
and beg to offer you our sincere and hearty congratula-
tions on the triumphant consummation of the noble
work to which you have devoted all your wealth of
bodily energy and intellectual ability since the happy
day on which you entered into tho bonds of holy wed-
lock. We trust that the son and heir may inherit all
the effulgent genius of his sire; that he may live to bo
a credit -bsth to himself and the author of his being ;
and that ho is only an earnest of what yon still have in
store. Knowing that, from feelings of delicacy, yon
would not be disposed to accept any substantial token
of onr esteem, we refrain from offering you any at this
juncture; but we feel that wo cannot let such an op-
portunity pass without expressing our gratitude for the
superhuman efforts yen have made to uphold the
prestige of the staff, and to revive the public confidence
in its capabilities which has been so severely shaken by
the recent sorry attempts at paternity on the part of
some of its prominent members. Wo therefore trust
that you will accept this address as some slight mark
of our appreciation of your intrinsic worth, and beg to
assure you that all members of the staff who are at
present in a state of single blessedness will strive to
emulate your heroic example, and will endeavour to the
best of their ability to follow in your illustrious foot-
steps.”
This is pretty far-fetched. A correspondent
tells us that some time back a parson at Bonrke was
always given to lecturing his flock about the grave.
This waa natural, since he was eternally shepherding ’em
there. In other words, all his cows grazed in a grave-
yard.
He waa an independent candidate, pledged to
no party or sect, and being desirous of saving up for the
£U) difficulty, he ran his show on the cheap and nasty
system. To carry this ent O. K., he therefore provided
himself with a horse and cart, and standing on the poop
of the latter, he addressed the assembled crowd. He
was in favour of everything calculated to ease the poor
man’s lot, from Coffee Palaces up to 7 years in Berrima
gaol, and waa fast roping the electors minds when the
opposition candidate quietly upraised the horse’s tail.
planted an active hunch of thistles beneath, and then
stood back to report progress. The horse and van were
captured next day on the road to Cobar, and when the
candidate h'd been scrubbed and cleaned, his wife
handed his electoral roll over to the election secretary,
and told him to “ Put that away—our Willie will never
want it more.”
THE LAW AND THE PROFITS THEREOF.
The following brief but affecting story illustrates
the effic ency of our laws for the protection ef property
and honest trading Three years ago, a certain trader
of Sydney, having got credit from two or three mer-
chants to the extent of nearly £4OO, bethought himself
that it would be a good thing to call a meeting of hie
creditors, and offer them something less than he owed
them. This he did, tendering in /orma pauperis 6s. in
the £. However, the creditors, knowing that this
worthy man had purchased properties to a considerable
extent, refused his offer, and determined—innocent
souls!—to put his estate into the Insolvency Court.
After three years of weary 'waiting, inquiring, and
urging for a settlement, the following statement of
account was rendered by the solicitors of the official
assignee in the estate :
Re— &c. &o.
Dr.
Property sold ... £675 0 0
Less mortgage debt on same* ... 270 5 0
* Note that this mortgage was in
no way disputed.
Net assets realised £404 15 0
Cr.
Lawyers’ charges £382 6 5
Balance £42 8 7
From this there is to be paid official
assignee’s commission, 5 per cent,
on gross amount realized, £375... £33 15 0
Leaving £8 13 7
which official assignee’s charges
for postages, &c. &c., will far
more than absorb—say £8 13 0
Leaving for the creditors £0 0 0
# * *
Among all the fair Hawkesbury belles at that
bazaar, not one was fairer than the fascinating young
brunette from the Terrace, whose charms held captive
the graceful youth from the city, as in bonds of softest
silk. The admiration was mutual, and when, conscious
of her power, she suggested he should buy her a
present (for the benefit of the church, of course), he
felt transported to the seventh heaven at such a chance
to show his devotion. But he was inexperienced. He
went to a fancy work stall, and purchased something
that he knew ladies use. He didn’t mean any harm,
you know, but he was young. Besides, there was not
much choice. He picked the prettiest ones, and getting
them neatly packed up, he returned to his soul’s idol,
and presented his gift, hoping it would suit. We
r?peat, he meant well; he had often seen them on
clothes-lines, and even elsewhere occasionally on windy
days, and did not know they were sacred. So when, as
she unwrapped the paper, she suddenly broke off in her
thanks, and her angelic smile gave way to a burning
flush of _tho rosiest red, he could only stammer out,
“What is—at least —don’t they—that is—l hope—l
really— ’’ But not deigning a word, the indignant
beauty gave him one furious look, and dashing the
present at his feet, left him standing, a perfect picture
of amazement and misery. Even then, matters might
perhaps have been mended, it a dear little child bad not
picked up the present, and exclaimed out loud, “Oh,
what beautiful clox!” We reiterate, his intentions
were excellent, and as he had seen hundreds of them
displayed in all their beautiful symmetry in shop
windows, without attempt at disguise, and had, more-
over, observed ladies calmly inspecting them without
any embarrassment in the public street, he “ had no
idea, you know.”
BRIEF MENTION.
Tho shooting season lasts all the year round
now in Ireland.
Iha champion somnambulist of N.S.W. is in the
Grafton Police force.
Times are so dull in Roma that the police plav
billiarc sin the day time, r 3
“ Demise miquaver,” an amateur musical critic
says the music in “ Patience ” is not “ a patch on thn
Pinafore.” °
From the Logan (Q.) Witness “The child
was bom in the morning, and died in the afternoon th«
day before.” °
. The Lyeg says that several of the officers at
the Garden Palace are down with “neulargia.” They’ve
doubtless been reading the evening papers, 1 °
The Eev. Mr. Hache has been forty years a
missionary among the heathen of the South Seas. He
has never once been touched—probably because
darkies object to made dishes.
Small-pox was known in China nearly 1200 years
before Christ. It’s here that the Chinkies have the bulge
on us. Small-pox wasn’t known in Sydney until nearlv
3100 years afterwards. One for Confucius." 3
“Now that Te Whiti is in prison,” says a New
Zealand journal, “ what has he done ?” Why, assaulted
the police, of course. He certainly deserves ten dava
without the “ hoption," as Mr. Abigail would say.
Up Tumut way, a girl had her foot injured by a
horse treading on it. The equine was in the next pad-
dock at the time. This only shows how careful a girl
should be as to where she lets the ends of her No 27'a
wander,
. Gundagai is tho only spot where “ Pinafore”
didn’t take. It is the only place, too, where one
of the aldermen and the local editor undertook to held
the hoops at the circus—then giving its fifteenth per
formance.
Up at Quirindi, the police court is held in a
hall which is often used for public entertainments of a
non-jndicial character. Over the heads of the J.’sP.
who sit on the stage are seen, in large white letters and
red ground, the legend, “ Quirindi Amateurs.”
This is a sample of the Hobart monopolist’s
telegraphic intelligence “ JDrs. Smart and Holden and
Mr. Butler arrived here to-night." “ Mr. Butler, Dra.
Holden and Smart aro here still.” “ Dr. Holden, Mr’
Butler, and Dr. Smart left here this morning.”
Spontaneous combustion occurred in the fleeces
of some long-woolled sheep while they were being con-
veyed on a Victorian railway. Three were burnt
We’re not prepared to speak to the truth of this rol
port: it has not yet appeared in the evening papers.
Telegraph operators ought to be pretty tough
beings. There’s an office at Cundletown where the
iron roof is so low than on a hot day any ordinary man
would be cremated while taking a message; while at
Kiandra, the instruments often freeze so hard that hot
water has to be used before messages can be got
through.
The Hobart Town Council, after making an
exhibition of themselves by voting tho sum of £lO for
the purpose of buying calico to display on the arrival
of his Excellency Sir George Strachan, have been com-
pelled by public opinion to reconsider their former
vote, and leave the expenditure in the hands of the
Mayor. Vivat Regina I
They complain at North Shore that a lot of
bodies are buried in the public street. This is awkward,
certainly, in the case of one’s relations; but if they
would only lower dawn a picnic po’iceman somewhere
in the neighbourhood of onr office, and allow ns to taka
ont a special license to do cellar-flaps upon the spot all
day, we should die happy.
In San Francisco —the modern Gomorrah, as
somo good people call it—n heavy fine is imposed for
tho publication of immoral pamphlets. Unfortunately,
wo in this colony have an Attorney-Genera I so good
that he nevet by any means lets himself down to read
the dozens of abominable pamphlets advertised for sale
in the daily press of this city.
Christchurch (N.Z.) Liberty has once more
changed hands. It has reverted to its original editor,
Mr. M. Mosely, who is backed by some friends, The
tall and pugilistic editor, specially imported from the
West Coast, has been dispensed with under the now
management. His days wore soon numbered, and there
were no fisticuffs to speak of during his reign.
A s spitting and swearing seem to bathe prin-
cipal qualifications of our honourable representatives,
the people of Albury have expressed a " unanimous
opinion that a special carriage should, for the future,
be set apart for tho separate use of members of Parlia-
ment.” This is drawing the thing too mild. How
would a sheop-truck or tho prison-van suit our disin-
terested patriots ?
Says the Jerilderie joker of a recent Noozb
“ Mr. H. D. Harkin has presented the Mechanics’ In-
stitute with £l2 12s in aid of the funds, and a pleasant
dance took place on the evening of Thursday last, when
the belles of the town were in requisition." Just here
Alfred’s special breaks short off, and we are left in the
most fearful suspense as to whether the belles were re-
quired for the nuptial knot or a boiling-down establish-
ment.
There’s a nice little history connected with a
certain £5-note forwarded to someone in Sydney as a
contribution to Saint Chiniquy’s Home for Converted
Priests, which seems to be as much an actuality as a
castle in the air or a chateau en Espagne. Will the
Herald, or some other religious paper, kindly publish
a report of the “ trouble " among tho brethren. There
are institutions other than "cup sweeps" which need
putting down.
Thorpe, the pions bank robber, is not the only
one who uses other people’s capital. Up North there
is a pious wool-king, who has recently hit on a splendid
scheme of financing. He has issued an edict that in
futnre 50 per cent, of all his employes’ salary shall be
retained to the end of their term. As over 100 hands
are employed, at an average of say £6O per annum, this
little dodge means the interest on £2500. What a
grand financier is lost in this gentle tender of sheep 1
Up in the far North, the other day, an unregis-
tered medico arrived in town and prescribed for a
patient. He was promptly brought up, and given two
months without tho option of a fine by the local Bench,
one of the members of which is a “ duly qualified
medical practitioner.” The cream of the joke is that
an individual was seen practising in the district without
the prestige of a diploma, but they don’t interfere with
him because well, if you want to know, why go to
Briaborolongam an.
There’s something “ crooked” about the newly-
surveyed road between Dubbo and Cobar. Ten miles
beyond Nyngan the sand-hills are all in it, but tho water
is all ont of it, and just inside “ the gentle Shepherd’s ”
paddock—for the famishing carrier and his perishing
cattle to feast their eyes upon. It is suggested that if
Mr. Barton, M.P., would look into this little matter,
ha would find it a nice little job for Mr. Salomont'fl
small boy. Either the road should be diverted, or a
few hundreds should be voted for the making of a t>nk.
Tho colonial youth’s idea of a proper kind of
picnic was well illustrated last week. A steamer-load
of Sunday-school scholars had just disembarked at the
Circular Quay, and two bright “ cases" of the mascu-
line gender watched them go orderly away. As the last
one disappeared, one small boy, with a look of ineffable
disgust on his face, said to the other : “ Say, Bill, yer
don’t call this yere a picnic ? Why, there aint nobody
drunk! ” That boy will grow up to be a policeman
some day, and help to keep things straight in the
pavilion.
Friday’s D. T. corrects no less than six errors
in its daily contemporaries. When the blind lead the
blind do they not fall into the ditch ? Of course, they
do. For example, the very same issue of the “ Morniso
1 Shakes” referred to tells us two lads were charged, at
the 11 Central” for stealing twelve glass tumblers, the
property of one James Bradford Lucas. That’s all
right; but a few inches lower down, we read “James
Bradford identified the tumblers as his property, and
said they were kept in an outhouse at the back of his
premises.” This being so, what in thunder does Lucas
want to howl about! Bradford swears the tumblers
belong to him, and yet Lucas prosecutes the lads, and
swears fie is the rightful owner. The Tichhome case is
THE MODERN MODEL MINISTER.
I am a man of multiform accomplishments and mys-
tery.
Ton’ll scarcely find my prototype in now or ancient
history;
Although my enemies hare tried all manner of proven-
tatives,
I've got to he a leader in the ’Ouse of Representatives.
On me a vote of censure has effects no more em-
phatical
Than water on the hacks of ducks, or other birds
aquatical;
In fact, in all diplomacy, 'mong friends or parties
sinister,
I am the very model of a modem moral Minister.
I haven’t any scruples which a cove could call young
ladyish—
My grammar’s bad, my principles are shadowy and
shadyish;
But I can crush an obstacle that’s nearly insurmount-
able.
And keep in office in a way that’s almost unaccount-
able.
My manner is ambiguous, inscrutable, Jesuitical—
It’s very hard to tell my views on any point political;
But in a matter where a smile may mask a purpose
sinister,
I am the very model of a modern moral Minister.
■When I can make a speech without misplacing every
aspirate.
And making slips in grammar calculated to exasperate
The shade of Bindley Murray, or that mighty lexico-
grapher,
Sam Johnson, or that bigoted old buffer, his bio-
grapher—
Why, men will think, in spits of foes, who hostile are
and sinister.
That I’m the very model of a modern moral Minister.
FLIES.
"OWED” TO THE GOVERNMENT.
Hail, Government, mighty and strong 1
Fit theme for a laureate’s song.
May your chief ever guide
O’er the turbulent tide
The “ ship of State ” safely along.
May no “ cuckoo ” e’er enter his nest.
To disturb the old bird from his rest;
May no enemy rude
Ever dare to intrude
Into regions so holy and blest.
May your tramways cut up every street,
And the people keep silence discreet;
Nor give way to disgust
Although blinded with dust.
Or immersed in mud over the feet.
May you stamp out all noxious disease
By a medical “ go-as-you-please
May your ambulance corps
Ever bo to the fore.
The pestiferous corpses to seize.
May your vision be always as keen.
To discern the political scene
As it was when, with ease.
Ton banned the Chinese
And peopled our loved Quarantine.
May no Proctor e’er venture to speak
On the sacred first day of the week.
Lest white-chokered howlers
And pious park prowlers
Be forced honest labour to seek.
May the dailies chant loudly your praise.
And gloss over your devious ways;
May the pliant D.T.,
Vie with sweet C.M.G,
To crown you with laurels and bays.
DOMIAN ECCLESIASTIC ( loq .): “ You would 'ardly believe me,
my dear fellow Ker-ristians, if I was to tell yer that I
once trod the paths of sin.”
At a season like this, when the heat is so threat,
And one’s constantly mopping the dew on one’s pate;
When our shirts to our backs
Stick ns tightly as wax,
/.nd onr tempers are touchy and sharp as (in tacks.
The curse of all curses, to foolish and wise.
To rich and to poor, is—these bothering flies.
From the grey dawn of day to the coming of night.
They are trying your comfort or peepers to blight;
Whether hungry or thirsty, or sober, or “ tight,”
Whether business is dicky, or things go all right.
In the church or the bar.
Or wherever you are.
You can never get rid of these nuisances—quite.
If you brush them away from your neck or your hair.
They at once find some spot still more sensitive, where
They goad you to madness, to rage and despair,
Enough to make e’en a Scotch clergyman swear 1
Oh 1 it’s wretched, I vow.
Hear thorn buzzing round now !
Worse than scores of young gruuters around an old sow,
And they dig their probosces in deeply, I trow!
As for ants, bugs, or fleas, one can get rid of these,
Or at least have occasional moments of ease ;
But the flies 1 how they rise
In a swarm when one tries
To escape for a moment! Oh Lord! oh my eyes !
They get down yonr throat, and they give yon the
croup.
They are baked in your bread, they are boiled in your
soap.
They are bogged in your'jam, they are drowned in your
tea.
And whatever you’re doing, they won’t let yon be ;
They are foes to all comfort, indoors or outside.
Whether reading, or writing, or taking a ride.
One does not like using the language profane
Indulged in by blackguards—’tis labour in vain;
And we must recollect (to bo lucid and brief )
Swearing’s not alone sinful, but gives no relief :
A big oath or a curse,
Altho’ striking and terso
Doesn’t lessen the nuisance, but makes matters worse;
And the parsons all tell us—but gracious! oh dear 1
There’s a thundering bluebottle now in my ear;
How can a man scribble, how can a man think.
With the floundering flies spinning round in the ink ?
They are here, they are there.
They are everywhere.
And skimming in millions around in the air I
But—don’t you believe it—l’m not going to swear;
Not a bit of it I no,
I to anger am slow.
And I’m not in a passion, I’d have you to know;
Bat what avail sighs.
One’s ill temper must rise,
Confound them!—oh Moses i—ye gods!—darn the flies.
JINGLE ON A J.P.
We have a hero very grand
For this small rustic story;
A full-blown magistrate of our
Broad shining territory.
He got news of his father’s death,
This man of social station;
And, thereupon, he gave a “ whoop ”
Of wildest exultation.
His room was on the second floor—
There was no one to hinder—
And so he pitched the furniture.
For " fun,” out of the “ winder,”
The wash-hand stands and chests of drawers
Went crashing in the gutter;
While—“ Got a bit of luck at last!”
The legatee did it utter.
Then out he "slung” a ewer, and
As, recklessly he dropped it,
A lady passed down by the house,
And very nearly “ copt ” it.
They called theltrooper bold, in whom
The little township’s trust is;
But he declined to notice these
Small vag’ries of a justice.
" What! • lock him up 1’ ” the peeler cried.
“ That would be to my sorrow;
I’ll want him,” he said, laughingly,
“ To sit on the Bench to-morrow,”
When next a near relation dies
Of this J.P. outrageous.
To face him there will be no man
Sufficiently courageous.
Directly the sad news arrives
(The truth out, we must blurt it)
That little sylvan spot will be
For one whole week deserted.
THE NEW CHUM'S PROGRESS.
Mr. Justice Holroyd, of Victoria, strongly
condemns the conduct of people in other countries in
sending young * scapegraces ’ to these colonies in the
hope that they will reform. Ha says they are much
m ore- likely to reform when under the vigilant super-
vision of their parents than away from their control.”
Cab from the ship to—aw—the Eoyal;
Very haughty with the waiters;
With fifty sovereigns in his “kick.”
Comes this thing of “gas” and “gaiters.”
A friend to dinnah—lots of “fizz; ”
Big cigars—the best Havana ;
Then out to “ give the girls a treat,”
Arm-hooked in a swaying manner.
Half-guinea bouquets on the stage;
Ev’ninp dross the show to honour;
A guinea for the usher’s palm—
Note sent to the Prima Donna.
A fortnight later, funds near melted;
Stranger’s horns drawn in according;
In a Keut-street lodging-house,
Do! the royst’ring blade is boarding.
A month has passed—coats, hats, and trousers,
Shirts and gaiters, rings and ticker.
To Uncle Benjamin are traded—
Must have meals, and must have liquor.
One month more—and he’s a scarecrow;
For his bread he’ll be no toiler;
The Library his home all day.
Night time'curled up in a boiler.


nothing to this, and all we pant for now is to know how
many tumblers but we stop here.
Wonder whether Dr. Ellis’s ancestors were
personal friends of St. Paul’s f Must have been, surely.
At St. John’s, the other Sunday, anyone who heard the
Doctor’s sermon must have almost concluded he was
the great apostle’s bosom friend. The Doctor said he
was an intense admirah of the saint in questien, be-
cause, among other excellencies, he was a good financial),
and would have made a splendid statesman—ah. This
intimate acquaintance with great men is just the sort
of thing that makes Juliah and Mariah think “the
most populab” such a clever praachah !
Here’s the verse on the Melbourne Cup (intro-
ducing the given rhymes) that won the prize in Garnet
Walsh's paper, Town Talk :
“ Tho Melbourne Cup ! That cup of cups, on which are
lots cf savings;
How many will be in their caps who chanoe by it to
win;
The cup that makes a downy couch more hard than
bed of shavings,
For ‘isn’t it a bitter enp to those who lose their
tin.’ ’’
We wonder what those were like that didn't get the
prize.
It seems that in spite of all we have done to
conciliate dear Carcoax Mary, that gentle journalist is
determined not to be friends with us. She cannot
evidently, bring herself to forgive our playful little par.
about the lost ribbon on the Mount, which she was
anxious to have returned in the same condition in which
it was found. We are get-
ting so afraid of Mary now,
that whatever occurs to her
in future, we shall be A son
Igard as silent as the grave.
Even if she lost her back
hair at a Baptist picnic, no
mention of the tragic cir-
cumstance would appear in
these columns.
A Sydney telegram to
a country paper, states that
“ five fresh cases of small-
pox have been discovered in
a milk-maid’s family.”
An English clergyman
announced that he woitld
not hold a harvest festival
in his church this year, be-
cause there had not been
any harvest for five years
worth being thankful for.
A commercial traveller
advertises in a Melbourne
paper, and bv way of show-
ing hia qualifications, says
“ he has been five years on
the roads in South Aus-
tralia, and three in Eng-
land.”
A Maitland correspon-
dent writes to ns eulogizing
the •* Ladies’ ” Tonrna-
ment that is being held
there. Wo should like to
have our correspondent’s
sentiments at an early date
respecting a cat-fight.
It was stated at an in-
quest on the body of a man
in an English prison, that
death was caused by bis
being deprived by tho
warders of a small piece of
red flannel which ho wore
as a protector. Surely this
cannot refer to any of
Milner’s patients.
There is a curious fact
about the Italian lately
uuder sentence of death, at
Bathurst, for rape. The
name he assumes, though
variously printed, is really
Bonanni Homobono, which
simply stands for “good
year, good man”; but the
raison d’Hre of tho name is
nob known.
A’London journal says,
“ the hopes of an heir be-
ing lorn t« one of our olde sb
peerages are bemporarily
disappointed.” If, as we
gather from that lucid
announcement, there is n’t
any heir, how can his hopes
be disappointed ? How-
ever, that’s immaterial;
the moral to be drawn from
this disappointment ia—
*• if at first you don’t sac-
ceed, try, try, try again.”
Directly it became
known in Gonlburn, that C.
J. Boberts, Esq., J.P. (etc.)
had retired from the con-
test of Argyle, 42 carpenters
and 27 boiler-makers re-
turned to work, and 17 pub-
licans who had decorated
their bars with gratuitous
“tucker,” carried the
corned-beef and Bologna
sausages back into the
kitchen, giving orders that
they were to serve for the
family dinner.
In the parish of Yeovil,
England, there were on the
same day services of thanks-
giving in one church for the
plentiful rain which had
secured a good harvest, and
in another church prayers
for fine weather. Either
the Yeovil people must be
hard to please in regard to
weather, or else they’re a
little mixed in their devo-
tional arrangements. It is
fortunate Omnipotence is
able to please some of
them.
A well-known brewer
was angrily discussing a
point in the refreshment-
room of the House the
other night, when an hon.
member hearing the tumult,
said to Dan O’Connor—
“ What put him out ?” *• Beer,” replied the festive
Dan. “Oh, no,” rejoined the ton. member; —
“ that pat him in.”
In the Schools’ match, shot off on the last day
of the Victoria Eifle Association Spring meeting, at
Williamstown butts, the competitors were directed to
fall-in opposite certain posts, which Were distinguished
by certain letters, figures, &0., corresponding with
similar symbols placed on the targets. One of the
schools represented was All Saints’ Grammar School,
of East St, Kilda, and the members of its team were
rather alarmed when the official whoso duty it was to
assign to the several schools their respective positions,
bawled out in a loud tone of voice: “ All Saints, go to
•Ll’”
A Dunedin policeman, rejoicing in the somewhat
aristocratic cognomen of Dnpreo, has been com-
mitted for stealing fowls and ducks. He had been
specially detailed to watch for the thief or thieves who
had previously stolen fowls from the same person, but
his watch proved ineffectual. The owner traced the
fowls stolen by the policeman to hia house by the drops
of blood that escaped from the birds as he carried them
home after wringing their necks. As soon as George
Darrell hoars of this, he’ll write an airy idyll, entitled :
“ Trapped at Last, or the gory footsteps of the blood-
tracked bobby.”
It is customary with some persons to print the
obituary notices of friends on the anniversary of their
death, but the practice is seldom carried on for so long
40 years. In the London Times, however, recently,
there was reprinted tfio notice of the death of a certain
official, namely, a Kecorder of a borough, who had been
defunct for that period; and an eager lawyer, not being
aware of the lapse of time, went round to all his friends
imploring their assistance to get the appointment.
After working tho matter well up, he discovered his
mistake, and he gets quite angry now when any one
mentions obituary notices.
He was a smart non-commissioned officer, and
hqwas drilling a squad on Some vacant ground (not
1000 miles from Lower George-street), before an ad-
miring congregation of small boys. Having, with a
stentorian voice, just put them through some intricate
movements—“ foursright,” •‘front-form,” etc., he
looked round for the applause due to his profound
mastery of military movements. "Why! that’s only
what we do at school,” chirped a small urchin, who
was standing by. “Yes,” replied another, “ and we do
if a sight better than that, too.” A pair of anxious
mothers have been searching for their offspring ever
since.
Wo are pleased to find the Petersham Cricket
Club Debating Class so well attended. Every Sunday
afternoon the Petersham pavilion is crowded with
enthusiastic members of the club, who criticise tho
previous day’s play, and consume enough lye to run the
Botany Soap Works. All hands talk as loudly and as
long as possible ; the fellow with the cleanest “ boiled
rag " ia elected chairman, and the fortunate member
who holds the price of a “pewter” keeps the fact
strictly to himself until tho conqiany thirls, and then
he “goes alone" for a “big colonial.” How much
more ennobling is this than going to church—or
fishing I
In a recent issue, we noticed the disinterested
action of two Qoondiwiadi J.P.’s re tho licencing of a
road-side pub. The sequel is good. The aspiring “ beer
puller” was a man “wise in his generation,” so instead
of Bitting down and pondering on that g’orions institu-
tien, a local magistracy, ho prepared two petitions—one
to have a township declared on the boundary cf the two
“nevor-touch.it" J.P.’s, and a second one praying that
a large area on one of their runs might bo thrown open
to selection. He obtained numerous signatures to both
petitions, and then again gave notice of his intention to
apply at the next meeting. Eesnlt: No opposition;
license granted.
Many years ago a pious youth named (say)
Brown came to seek his fortuna ia Australia. He
prospered so well that his empolyer was ruined, and he
became a squatter on the B.ircoo. He then bethought
himself of his sisters, whom he had left at home. He
sent for them, and in due time they captivated the
hearts of two squatters, by whom they were led to the
altar. Shortly after the marriage the bridegrooms we-o
astonished at receiving a bill from their pious brother-
in-law for his Bisters’ trousseaux and expanses, with an
intimation that if cash was nod convenient he wan’d
take the amount ia sheep. They, of course, declined to
pay up, and the sisters ware favoured by their brother
with a letter reproaching them with ingratitude. The
pious man is now an M.L.A. dawn South, and his sisters
are celebrated for their elaborate toilettes and beautiful
daughters.
Education ia carried on. under difficulties at
Iluka. Two years ago, a school was built; and as the
whole place is very sandy, the bnilding was perched on
twelve stone blocks. The wind having blown the loose
sand away, the blocks have one by one been relieved
from duty, and, notwithstanding‘that a Government
officer inspected and reported on tho state of the founda-
tions, and tho schoolmaster devotes all the time he can
spare from whopping the boys to shovelling the sand
back again, there seems every probability of the school
meeting the fate which befel a similarly constructed
building meationed in Scripture. Five of the blocks oil
ou one side have given way, so the schoolmaster propped
the scholastic edifice np with a screw-jack, sent the
boys and girls home, and now waits to see which will
happen first—the Government wake up, or the school
tumble down.
Prom a Townsville exchange, we learn that the
first Chinaman eaten by the Normanby niggers was a
market gardener. He was a thin, cadaverous, dried,
bamboo-looking warrior, as tough as one of Westwood’s
conversion yarns, and a few of tho darkies died next
day from indigestion. It was a sort of Lord Mayor’s
banquet amongst tbe black men, however, and by way
of rehsh they stuffed the Celestial gardener with hia
own carrots, turnips, peas, and parsley, and then
roasted him over a quick lire, in a style that would
- '■'■rm Miss Whitehead. Four of the Mongolian’s
r - hers arrived from China, tho other day, for the
purpose of strewing rice, paper prayers, and tears over
the grave of their departed relation ; aim it ia calculated
that by the time they have visited all hia tombs, the
price of rice will have risen £5 a ton, and the weeping
Celestials’ eyes will bo as dry as a report sr’s throat at
one of Hardie and Gorman’s land sales.
He was the boss of a ” star dramatic company ”
—his first tragedian drawing 30s. per week—and he de-
termined to open his season at Jackass Flat with n
novelty, the play being no less than tho inspired
“ Othello.” la order to bring this out, however, it was
necessary for the actors to “ double up,” or play two or
more parts in the shine piece. Things wont along nice
and slippery until the second act, when a party by the
name of CreswickMacready Kemble Johnson, positively
swore he’d be jammed if he’d go any further. “Yon
won’t go on ?" shouted the infuriated manager. “ No,”
replied the tragedian, “paint mesky-hluoif Ido, because,
don’t you see, I’ve got to play Uoderigo, Cassio, and
Montano.” Now, in the second scene, Kcderigo and
Cassio fight, and Montano rushes in to separate them.
“ How the devil am I goin’ to do it ?” So they shot
Othello into the travelling trunk and went on with the
“ Bobber’s Kevenge and the Maniac’s Murder, cr
The Blood-soaked Dagger of the Dark Baviae."
A bank manager, who resides not at Lapnta
but at the North Pole, has two distinct characters.
When sober, he is aesthetic, and only associates with
the creme de la crime. But he is mortal, and when
drunk his ideas lack that refinement which characterises
the Vera de Veres, and he goes to the other extreme,
associating only with the skim de la skim. On a recent
occasion, one cf hia clerks, walking abroad, was much
interested to see hia chief engaged in leap-frog with a
very unsteady and disreputable Hibernian; and
as the two athletes sank gracef ally down into the gutter,
to see him throw his arms lovingly round his neck and
cry, “ Barney, dear Barney, I’ll honour your cheque for
a thousand.” “ Faix, then,” responded the grateful
Barney, “ it’s myself that’ll bo wid yez when yez open
the bahank in the morning.” During the night, how-
ever, the bank manager suffered an apotheosis; he had
ascended to an ampler other, and knew Barney no more.
And Barney says it's the dirty spalpeen he is, anyho w.
and the divil a one of him will lift him out of tho gutter
again, so ho wont.
It’s very nearly time that master-mariuera,
railway officials, young gentlemen who have appoint-
ments with young ladies, and other persons, to who.n
exactitude in chronological matters is of importance,
gave up regulating their watches by the one o’clock
gun. This valuable piece of ordnance is not discharged
with that punctuality which we once fondly imagined
characterised all military operations, and a few
minutes one side or the other of one o’clock are not
thought of much consequence. A little whTa ago, owing
to soma part of it having become co ded with rubbish,
tbe gun was not fired till a quarter past one. The com-
manding officer’s query. “ Why the it was fired
then ?” appears reasonable enough, but the artillerist
in charge knew well that huudndsof ballast-heaverr,
street-repairers, and Lands Office official?, to whom
punctuality is everything, were waiting for it with the
calm, imperturbable fai h with which the righteous
await the Day of Judgment, and discharged it on the
“ better late than never ” principle.
The proprietor of a newspaper in the South
Coast district also runs a saw mill, and when the paper
is finished printing he goes to work sawing wood. The
subscribers don’t object to bis sawing wood, especially
as he’s better at tho sawing than tho printing, only ou
wmdy days the sawdust gets mixed with tho ink and
for a while, tbe people thought ho was trying to do
some fancy printing; but at length the paper got to be
so freely illustrated with woodoa block*, that they
found out the real facts. They want him to discon-
tinue one branch of occupation; but a man must live
fomehow. Of the saw and
the newspaper, the eaw has
the larger circulation. The
saw-mill ako happens to be
mixed up with the local
brass laud, because they
both practice ou the farce
night. The proprietor, be-
ing mus’eal, tries to make
the saw keep time with the
instruments; but, thongh
there ia occasionally an ex-
citing struggle, tho band
generally forges ahead in
the long run. The saw can
only go a certain pace, but
when the band is properly
warm, it can go any speed it
likes. As a rule, the effect
is powerful, and when tho
musicians get into full
blast, and the saw works up
to a real good buzz, there’s
a high combination in the
harmony lino. The big
teeth run into a knot some-
times, and that causes a
variation in the concert that
makes people two miles
their ivories
, u. * together and go and
look for tho meat-axe. This
stylo of thing was in full
force, a while ago-on the
night the world was- pro-
phesied to come to an end
and, ns the hand was ex-
tra fresh, and tho man with
the saxhorn came out
specially strong, if s no
wonder the sinners miles
away fancied they really
heard Gabriel’s trumpet,
and thought tho old world
had gone bung at last.
Broughton Creek has
twelve eligible bachelors
and two marriageable girls,
four parsons, one policeman,
a pub., a lock-up, a court-
house, and no churches.
Says the Campbelt,-
Towjf Herald:— The only
paper in Sydney that baa a
spark of courage is The
Bulletin.” To which wo
reply by stating that tho
only paper in Campbelltown
that has a spark r f courage
is tho
Herald,
Constable Murphy, of
Yass, killed his rcar, tho
other day. He should, pre-
viously to assuming dutv
in that district have serred
a term ia Sydney. Ho
womd then have been pro-
perly instructed by tho
metropolitan “crushers” in
the art of “ how just not to
ao it.
Haughty lady in 300
guinea baronche, to small
tradesman whom she has
“ beaten down” respecting
some purchases: “I will
trouble you to send those
things as eoon as possible,
Mr. Bodkin.” Small trades.
Juan (m a ] otu i YO i ce ) .
\ ery well, mum ; whero
would you wish ’em sent to
—the Pint, or the pub ?”
There is, in this city, a
doctor of exceeding juvenile
aspect. Ho was witness in
a case at tho Criminal ses-
sions, the other day, and,
when his name was called,
rofo up to enter (he wit-
ness-box. “ What’s hi s
name?” said the constable
m charge of the case to the
crier. “So-and-so,” was
the reply. Then tho police-
man ran over to the witness
and whispered, “Whist!
it’s not yerself they’re calll
in’. Eun out, like a good
bhoy, now, and fitch yer
father.”
On the occasion of a
late festivity on board
H.M.S. Something, there
was an item in the evening’s
entertainment which was
not down on th e program mo.
A temperance man found
the lemonade made him so
spirited and warlike that ho
became quite bellicose, and,
in the excess of his naval
enthusiasm, “ went for ” a brother officer. His lack of
foresight, however, in picking on a wrong man, re-
sulted in sad damage to bis eyesight. For his reward—
roomour hath it, exceeded his most sanguinary hopes.
When the Queensland Premier visited Elackall
the capital of the Western country, on 3rd Nov., the
inhabitants got up a triumphal arch, with “ Welcome •*
in big red and black letters stuck in front. That
“ Welcome " sign has quite a history. It was painted
about two years ago, for a bachelors’ ball; the *• paint-
ing ” then hung for six months in the hall. Service
was held ia this hall on the “Sawbatb,” and tho
“goody-goodies,” upon entering the edifice, could
admire the greeting, which, perhaps, would not ho out
of place had it not been flanked by a few Chinese
lanterns and withered “dead finish." Upon the hail
being cleaned out, the “ Welcome ” was confiscated by
the caretaker, who made a pair of sheets cf it. Last
Queen's Birthday, it was borrowed for an entertain,
ment, when it figured again over the doorway. It
afterwards did duty for a tarpaulin; then another ball •
and lastly the triumphal arch. It has now been care-
fully removed, and the current speculation is where it
will turn up next ? Perhaps at somebody’s funeral!
Dr. Ellis’s sermons display a strange mixture cf
the powerful and the puerile; but invariably an almost
incredible ignorance or innocence respecting tho;o
strata of society who have not vet broken into tho
upper crust. It was not very generous of
him, a few Sunday evenings ago, to denounce fo
vehemently the poor unfortunate curates who presume
to marry on £2OO a yeah! It ia not everyone who has
an independent income as the rev. doctor himself has.
And, then, those old, old, threadbare yarns about the
A LICENTIOUS —PRESS!


RILEY
BROTHERS,
8
SYDNEY.
386 GEORGE STREET,
600 GEORGE STREET
165 OXFORD STREET
BATHURST,
GOULBURN,
NEWCASTLE,
MAITLAND,
10 COLEMAN STREET, LONDON.
THE
CHEAPEST
IN THB
AUSTRALIAN COLONIES.
DSAPEE3
THE ORIGNATORS OF THE
NOTED £5 BALES.
io
.£5 Family Bale.
1 pair White or Coloured
, Blankets
1 White or Coloured Quilt,
large size
5 yards White or un-
bleached Sheeting
yards White or un-
bleached Calico
5 yards White or Red
Flannel
12 yards W incoy. Print, or
other Dress material
6 yards Strong Cotton
Shirting
3 pair Women’s Stockings
3 pairs Men’s Socks
1 pair White or Coloured
Stays
10 yds. Strong Cotton Tick
2} yards Gambroora for
strapping
3 yards Strong Brown
Holland
2 large size Bedroom
Towels
3 yards Strong Osnaburg
1 Linen Damask Table
Cover
1 pair Strong Tweed or
Moleskin Trousers
1 pair Men’s, Women’s
or Child’s Boots
1 Bolt or pair of Braces
|doz. Pocket’kerchiefs
1 Saddle Cloth
1 pair Saddle Straps
Pins, Needles, Tapes, Cot-
, tons, Buttons, Hooka
and Eyes, &o. &o.
£5 Men’s Clothing
Bale.
1 Suit Tweed Coat, Trou-
sers, and Vest
2 Crimean shirts, large size
2 best Cotton Shirts, largo
size
1 host Felt Hat, any size
8 pair-strong Cotton Socks
6 White Handkerchiefs
1 Belt or pair of Braces
1 pair Strong Boots, Col-
lars, Ties, &o.
£5 Ladies’ Bale.
6 Ladies’ Chemises
6 pairs Drawers
4 Night-gowns
4 Ladies’ Camisoles
2 Ladies’ Petticoats
3 Children’s Chemises
3 pairs Drawers
3 Night-gowns
3 Petticoats
The ; above are made of
good loagcloth and nicely
trimmed. If desired, other
articles may be ordered in-
stead of any of the above.
Mother’s £5 Bale.
2 Ladies’ Night-dresses
3 Ladies’ Chemises
2 pairs Ladies’ Drawers
1 Ladies’ White Petticoat
1 pair Ladies’ Btay9
1 Ladies’ Camisole
2 pairs Ladies’ Stockings,
1 Ladies’ Flanl. Petticoat
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Infants’ Hairoord
Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
1 Infant’s Stay Band
% dozen Infants’ Diaper
Squares
Puff Box, Pull & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 pair Wool Boots
1 Infants’ Christ’ing Robe
11 I nfant’s Christening
Square, trimmed with
Quilted Silk
1 infants’ Christening
Hood or Hat.
£5 Winter Bal e.
1 pair Large Blankets
1 largo Marcella Quilt
10 yards Good Sheeting
21 yards Strong Calico
12 Strong Cotton Tick
20 Wincey Dress Tweed
10 good Welsh Flannel
6 yards Strapping Tweed
' All the above are good
wearing articles.
£5 Free Selector’s
Bale.
1 pair large Blankets
1 white or coloured Quilt
5 yards Strong Sheeting
10 white or unbleached
Calico
6 white or red Flannel
12 yards Dress Material
12 yards Cotton Shirting
4 pairs good Stockings
1 pair strong Stays
1 Dark Petticoat
6 strong Gambroon
6 Brown Holland
4 large White Towels
3 yards good Trousers
Tweed, Buttons
Thread, &c.
£5 Mourning Bale.
25 yds. Black French Twill
3 yards Black Crape
1 dozen Crape Trimming
1 Black Shawl
1 Lady’s Bonnet
1 Trimmed Hat
1 pair Gloves
Carriage Free.
RILEY BROTHERS’
£2 Infant’s Parcel.
4 Infants’ Shirts
2 Infants’ Night-gowns
2 Infants’ Long Flannels
1 Hairoord Monthly Gown
2 Infants’ Rollers
$ dozen Diaper Squares
Puff Box, Puff, & Powder
1 Flannel Head Square
2 Bibs
1 Pair of Wool Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
£2 Stockman’s
Parcel.
1 Pair Tweed Trousers
I Crimean Shirt
1 Best Cotton Shirt
3 Pairs Strong Socks
3 Pocket Handkerchiefs
1 Soft Felt Hat
I Elastic Belt
1 Pair Strong Boots
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
£2 Infants’ Christ-
ening l Parcel.
1 Handsome White Muslin
Long Christening Robe,
richly trimmed
1 Infant’s White Cashmere
Square, trimmed quilted
silk
1 Infant’s White Satin or
Silk Hood or Hat
• Carriage free by Bail
or Steamer,
£2 Ladies’ Parcel*
2 Nightdresses
2 Chemises
2 Pair Drawers
1 White Petticoat
1 Pair Stays
1 Camisole
2 Pairs Stockings
1 Flannel Petticoat
Carriage free by Rail
or Steamer.
We wish it to be distinctly understood that any
article in the Bales may be changed for some other of
about the same price.
THE CHEAP LIST.
FOB BOYS.
Sohool Suits, 2b 61
Hussar Ssits, 3s lid
Picnic Suits, 3s lid
Sunday Suits, 7s 6d
Youths’ Suits, 12s 9d
School Hats, la
Sailor Hats, Is
Shakcspease Hats, Is lid
White Shirts, Is lid
Working Shirts, Is
Linen Coats, 2s lid
Tweed Trousers, 2s lid
Moleskin Trousers, 2a lid
Trousers Tweed, 9Jd
Linen Collars, 4id
Elastic Braces, 3d
Cotton Socks, 31
Neckties, 3d
FOR LADIES.
Dolman Mmiles, 12» 91
Sattecu Prints, 3J-*
Dress Materials,
Black Alpaca, sid
Satin Parasols, 3s lid
Flop Hats, Is 61
Night Dresses, 2b 61
Trimmed Chemises, Is 61
Trimmed Drawers, Is 3d
Worked Petticoats, Is lid
Strong Stays, 2s 6d
Twill Umbrellas, Is 61
Best Kid Gloves, 2s 61
Muslin Edging, 2’ 5 d
Black Crape, Is lid
School Hats, 91
Infants’ Goods
Baby Linen
FOR MEN.
Working Shirrs, Is 61
White Shirts, 2b 6d
Oxford Shirts, 2b lid
Linen Collars, 4£d
Seamless Socks, 61
Elastic Braces, 6i
Tweed Suits, 19s 6d
Summer Suits. 19s 6d
Trousers and Vest, 9s 61
Tweed Trousers, 3s lid
Best quality, 7s 6d
Mole Trousers, 3s lid
Tweed Pagets, 13s 9d
Tweed Coats, 10s 6d
Linen Sacs, 4s lid
Shakespeare Hats, 2s 6d
Colonial Tweed, 2s 6d
Silk Umbrellas, 7s 6d
FOR THE HOUSE.
American Longclotb, 2£l
Nightshirt Calico, 4?d
Grey Calico, 2fd
Double width Calico, 7id
Pillow Calico, 6id i
Swansdowu Calico,
Wiiito Flannel, 7£d
Wide Flannel, llid
Scarlet Flannel, 7id
Saxony Flannel, 11 Id
Cotton Tick, Sid
Linen Tick, 7id
Stripe Bed Tick, s|d
Unbleached Sheeting, 7id
White Sheeting, 7sd
Twilled Sheeting, 9Jd
Mosquito Net, 6|d
‘ Summer Quilts, 2a, lid
THIS PRICE LT6T.—Persons who may read this
advertisement must not think that because the prices
of some articles are ridiculously low the goods aie very
common. They are by no means the commonest goods.
We have lower prices still; but the fact is, competition
now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney
but with manufacturers in England, that good articles
can now be had at very low prices.
RILEY BROTHERS,
THE
CHEAPEST DRAPERS IN AUSTRALIA.
lady who pat her diamond ring in the plate, and the
wicked youth who borrowed the last sixpence from a
membah of my choiah to buy a “ long shandy,
were hardly well chosen for an audience
of little Sunday school boys. The people who filled St.
John’s were possessed of a little intelligence, and i
was not good taste to treat them to such goody-goody
SKT * Omit these pretty tales-let the poor govern-
esses^ione—don’t use the first personal pronoun quite
men on (say) the Belyando or the Barcco.
Inspector of Nuisances wanted at Public In-
„ ig B uo hananized descrip-
tion of a City J-P- ...
p Last month’s average Sunday attendance atthe
Museum showed a big increase, and was the highest
average yet. Eough on the Snufflebusters.
Alderman “ Beer” is evidently appreciated by
the ratepayers. This time he got a majority of 700.
T -iqf election 13. It was thought that ho was all froth,
but it. has been found by experience that he’s got a good
head on him, and is not at all flat. ( (
We have received from Mr S. Freshman, ‘Sole
Australian Representative of Leslie E.Keeley,. *
tiamuhlet on the doctors “ Chloride of gold cure for
ftK? It strikes ns that the brochure has
been sent to the wrong office; but as we teke an interest
inTnShren. we’ll look into the matter, and report
frilly next week.
Before any more is said abonfc corruption in re
tho Milbnrn Creek affair, the Government should insist
on a rigid enquiry being held’.into the circumstancos
nSder which a certain politician is said to have recently
obtained from the Government Savings Bank a heavy
advance on security which one of the ordinary banks
declined to accept as sufficient to cover the amount of
an overdraft for a like sum. Will somo Member kindly
ask a question on this subject ?
Adelaide Punch has come out with the follow-
ing strikingly original joke " Gushing Young Lady
Visiter to Little Sister: • Oh, you poor, dear little
creature. Is your tooth -ache no better ? Little Sister;
• No. all my toofhs is aching ; but I wouldu if I
could take them out, like Clara does with her s. \« e
suppose the entirely now and original conundrum about
Moses and Hair-on is in type, and will appear m next
saue.
One of tho best known city solicitors, the other
day vouched for the truth of this story :-A client
named .dropped in at my office on Tuesday, and
said. “Get my case put down for to-morrow week. X ve
been round to roo , and I can get together a good
bench for that day.” And yet Dan O Connor, Roseby,
Abigail and Co say, that all tho metropolitan beaksi are
purl. However, the holy “ amachures have got their
auiotus,! Six well-paid police!magistratea. who will be
gentlemen, are to be appointed for tho metropolis, and
every honest man and respectable lawyer already
shouts “ Hallelujah 1"
The other day, an apparently poor woman went
into a certain railway refreshment room on the Southern
lino, ordered a plate of meat and vegetables, tendered
a shilling as provided for in the printed and exhibited
tariff-sheet, and was compelled to pay half-a-crowa.
She complained bitterly to her fellow-passengers, but
the only consolation she could get was that everyone
was treated in the same way. This sort of thing is
simply monstrous, and ought to ho squelched without
ceremony by the Secretary for Railways. On the line
between Melbourne and Ballarat, one gate a well-
cooked—not a fried—chop, with potatoes and bread, for
sixpence.
From an Echo of last week wo onll the follow-
ing “pith and point” par. Thus the Melbourne
Evening Mailj—‘The crime de la crime of Sydney
society What is to say the female portion) do not. as a
rule, walk on the Block at all. They confine themselves
to their carriages, and do their promenading to their
own demesnes.’ ” This ,as many of our readers will ob-
serve. is an extract from a sketch called On the
Block,” written by a member of our own staff, which
recently appeared to This Bulletin, and was inserted
in the Melbourne Evening Mail without acknow-
lodgment. If the Mttle halfpenny paper in question
goes on snavelling our pars, like this, it will gradually
come to be considered a smart paper. By the way, the
Echo does not profess to copy from The Bulletin,
as to do so would be to admit too much.
The aerial story which appears in the Morning
Mackat every Saturday, is a work of surpassing In-
terest. It is an autobiography called “ John Marmon,
and the adventures of this parson are of the most
marre w-freezing and blood-curdling description. Mark
this now Seeing farther endeavours useless, after
six months of this desultory schooling, I was removed;
but to place of being sent to sea, was despatched to
George’s River to Mr. Henry Rawson’a to herd pigs
We gaspingly await the sequel. We shall read the
Saturday’s issue of our funny little contemporary with
avidity, until John is apprenticed to a Chinaman, or is
appointed Local Court bailiff—then our interest in the
paper will cease. We recommend this story to the
public with great confidence. There is nothing in it
calculated to bring a blush to the cheek of any one but
the author.
The boss dramatic club is located 92 miles
south of the Garden Palace, and is efficiently misman-
aged by a youth from the metropolis. The members,
having rehearsed “ Box and Cox ” for five months,
have just found out that it’s rather heavy j they want
something light, so they’re wrestling with “ Richard
111 ” now. That suits them better ; it’s just a nice
simple play, and they’re getting along splendidly. But,
though the town is not large, they have opposition in
the shape of an amateur club, headed by the local
barber, and which meet s in his sho r*. The amateurs have
been endeavouring to cope with the “ Octoroon,” and
all went well till one night, when the knight of tho
shop, who is a strict “ Son," and takes the part of the
Indian, Insisted upon having a bottle of real rum placed
in front of the camera —because he said he did not be-
lieve to imagining things—and fell out with Jacob
M'Closkey. It finished up by Jacob and the Indian
nearly having a private tragedy, and tho milder mem-
bers have become rather timid of acting with them. So
they intend to give up the “ Octoroon,” and try and
get level with some easy burlesque—such as “Jack
Sheppard’’—where there’s no rum required on the
stage.
An editor’s life is not all bine sky and sunshine
in the Far North. In a little town, on a long river away
up in that direction, there is a newspaper published,
which tho other day came out the size of a sheet of
of foolscap, printed on one side, at the low price of
“sixpence.” The size varies according to how things
go in the sanctum, but the appearance never varies; the
type always looks as if each individual one had been en-
gaged to a severe contest with its neighbour, or been
used as a battering ram, and they haven’t got any more
face on them than a one-day bride. There is just three
inches of original matter. This issue was small, owing
to a little financial entanglement; the man who owned
the building wanted all the stock of papers there was,
and took it. These difficulties would upset most men,
hut a man isn’t fit to be an editor if he isn’t grit, front
and back and core through ; so the Far North man rose
to the occasion with heroism, and penned a powerful
leader of three inches, on the evil effects of intemper-
ance, especially as exemplified by his unfortunate comp ,
who was pictured in a dreadful state of alcoholic satura-
tion. It w.is good editorial strategy, only it happens
that the comp, was really quite innocent of the im-
peachment laid at his door. But this sort of thing has
to be done, dear reader; the country could not bo
governed without scapegoats.
Far away, near where the sun sets, there lives
an “ oW hand,” by name, “ Tom,” and for fifty-five
years has Tom served one family—a highly-aristocratio
colonial family—one from whose stump Sir ’Enery ever
splits a splinter to stick somewhere into his Ministries,
■•y way of “seasoning ” them with respectability. How
faithfully Tom has served his lords may be gathered
from the fact that he, some forty years ago, when
•ingaged in the then extremely dangerous occupation of
taking up a new run, for the father of his late bosses,
•nd finding himself stuck fast with a broken dray,
houldered the broken wheel and carried it some eighty
niles back to be repaired. The station secured on the
occasion has helped in no small measure to fatten this
family of gentle shepherds, and also to impart to it
much of that dignity which it now enjoys. But what
ibout poor old Tom, ou whose head some seventy
inmmers, mixed with “ hard graft” and “dry tucker"
kave told tbeir tale ? Ho was turned off penniless only •
-he ether day, simply and solely because he, after a
hard day’s work —hard for so old a man—took a drink
too much in a prohibited “ public." These shanties in
front of a decent man’s door are enough to annoy him,
and the squatter who prohibits his hands’ support of
them may be pardoned; but then it must have been cruel
to begin with a servant who had served one’s father
and grand father.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
M. Gambetta is a free-trader.
Mr. Gladstone has a fine and cultivated baritone
voice.
A William-street grocer is the exact counter-
part o! Eoohefort.
Rear-Admiral Wilson leaves the Australian
station about the middle of January.
General Sir Henry Havelock-Allen, M.P., has
become insane, and restraint has been found requisite.
Oscar Wilde, it is said, intends to come before
the English public neit season as a Shakespenan actor.
The Jersey Lily was last at Daioeattie, in Scot-
land, where the natives “glowered" at her considerably.
Sir J. H. Lefroy, late Governor of Tasmania,
Lady and Miss Lefroy, accompanied by Bir Joshua P.
Bell and Lidy Bell, are on a visit to Sydney.
A complimentary musical entertainment was
given by the choir of the E. C. Church, Rockhampton,
to the Eev. J. E. Tenison-Woods, last month.
Mrs Money has commenced a suit against her
sister, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts. in reference to the
fortune passing under the will of the late Duchess of
St. Albans.
According to the Mercury, the Tasmanians
have been covering themselves with glory on the san-
guinary fields of Parihaka. Captain Martin assisted
m surrounding Te Whiti.
A fund for the defence of Te Whiti has been
started at Auckland by the Star. The Star is an even-
ing paper. It is to be hoped the jury will not allow
this fact to influence them.
Wiloannia people say that, after all, His Honor
Judge Docker isn't much of a physiognomist, as he
cannot read jurymen’s countenances, except through
the spectacles of the sergeant of police.
O’Kelly, the Land Leaguer, was a special re-
porter for the N.Y. Herald during the Cuban insur-
rection, and being captured by the Cubans was about to
be shot aa a Yankee spy, but saved himself by claiming
to be a British subject.
The 19fch September, on whi«h Garfield died,
was the anniversary of the day on which he performed
his most gallant military action, by which ho gamed the
day at the battle of Chickam.auga. He was made
Major-General by President Lincoln for the act.
One of the cleverest novels published this year
is “Joseph's Coat," by Mr. David Christie Murray,
which has been running through Belgravia. The
serial in this magazine for 1882 will be by Besant and
Rice, and is to bo entitled “ All Sorts and Conditions of
Men."
The Sydney Mail gives a list of literary
pseudonyms, which it says " lifts the mask from many
of our most enjoyable writers.” Then, glancing down
the list, we find “ Peter Pindar, John lYcacott ! This
lifts the mask, certainly; but it shows the wrong man
beneath it.
Sir John Karslake, whoso death was recently
announced, was eight years ago “ the coming man in
his profession, the bar. Bu k the dreadful affliction of
blindness put an end to his brilliant career, and of lato
his condition was so deplorable that his demise comes
almost as a release.
The Premier and Colonial Secretary, Sir Henry
Parkes, leaves fop England on the 28th December by the
San Francisco mail steamer. Sir Henry, it is stated,
will remain one month on a tour through the United
States, and afterwards proceed to England, returning
by the Suez mail lino.
As Mr. C. W. Waddell ia going to England for
the Orange Slaughtering Company, wo suppose the
Government will pnt off the criminal prosecution in
the Milburn Creek affair until he comes back. We have
known Governments to bo quite as accommodating as
this in other matters.
Lady Florence Dixie, special correspondent of
the Morning Post, now in South Africa, writes that
the Zulus speak of the sanctimonious Captain Carey
with contempt and satire. Of the late Prince Imperial,
they say that ho “fought like a young lion. Until, in
stepping backwards, ho fell, wo dared net go near
him.”
Mr. Starley, the inventor of the bicycle, tri-
cycle, etc., and the real author of most of the improve-
ments in the sowing machine — in fact, one of the
greatest mechanical geniuses of tho age—is dead. Ho
was a man of little commercial keaness, and, speaking
broadly, his inventive powers freely given to the
world.
Theresa Longworth, the talented and unhappy
lady whom that scoundrel. Major Yelvorton, now Lord
Avonmore, deluded by a Scotch marriage, has died at
Natal Miss Longworth possessed literary ability of
more than average order, and for some time before he»
death wrote in South Africa under the nom de plume of
“ Kate the Critic."
The brother of a Parliamentary candidate at
Gisborne (N.Z.), named Gannon, horsewhipped the
editor of the Pove#tt Bat Herald for publishing a
statement that the name of Gannon could not be found
on any baptismal or marriage register. Gannon has
taken legal proceedings against the Herald for pub-
lishing a slander against him; damages claimed, £5900.
The Colonial Treasurer of Tasmania, who hinted
a little while since that he would resign ihat appoint,
ment, has “reconstructed” thus:—The Attorney-
General (Mr. J. S. Dodds) to be Treasurer; tho present
Treasurer to be Attorney-General. And as Attorney*.
General generally look for vacant judgeships, Tasmania
sees in the distance a political lawyer on the Supreme
Court bench.
The death of Franz Hiltnan has just occured at
Prague. He was the inventor of tho which ho
composed—both the step and tho tune—about 40 years
ago, in Germany. Tho dauco was soon introduced to
England, and at once became popular. Tho waltz had
gained a footing some years previously, having also
been imported from Germany, though, if Byron’s de-
scription of it be correct, the dance must have been
different then from what it is now.
The Hon. Robert Stout is the recognised leader
of Freothonght in New Zealand. The effica of his firm
(Messrs. Sievright and Stout) is erected on the site of
the first church ever built in Otago. His private man-
sion (Bankton) was the manse of the first minister of
Dunedin (Dr. Burns, D.D.), and tho n« .v Lyceum, the
foundation-stone of which was recently laid by his
mother-in-law (Mrs. Logan), is built on the site of the
eld “ First Church” of Otago. These are throe queer co-
incidences—what do they presage ?
Sir J. H. Lefroy and family left Hobart for
Melbourne on the 22nd ultimo, and a large number of
the principal residents gathered at the railway station
to say farewell. Both his Excellency and family had
rendered themselves highly popular in Tasmania, and
tho leave-taking was very impressive. On reaching the
Queen’s Battery, the train stopped a moment in ac-
knowledgment of the final snlnte which was then fixed,
and at its conclusion moved on towards Launceston,
bearing away not only an able Governor but a true
gentleman.
It is almost a certainty that Mrs. Watson met a
horrible death on the Lizard Islands. The search
parties in the Conflict, the Customs’ entter, and tho
Lady Mary, all returned to Cooktowu without having
(■seen the faintest trace o£ the woman herself. Some of
the searchers were highly qualified for their task, being
first-class both as seamen and bush men; every bash,
rock, and gully was examined with the minutest care,
but nothing significant discovered. Watson’s punt was
found ashore forty miles away, having evidently been
abandoned by the blacks. Tho poor woman’s diary was
in the bottom of a box, and a moistening of the eye
would be no disgrace to any man who reads its last sad
entries. From day to day. up to the very last, that
brave woman noted every incident connected with her
solitary island home, while waiting for her husband's
return; the weather, passing vessels, the sickness of
her Chinese servant, even the fretfulness of her babe;
bat never one desponding word about her own feelings
or sufferings—with tho exception of where, on one page
she writes, a month in advance, “ I guess on one of
these three days he will return.” On Sept. 27, is_the
first entry indicating the presence of blacks, “Ah »am
saw smoke, supposed to be from native camp.” On the
29th, “Ah Leong killed by the blacks; Ah Sam found
his hat.” On the 30th, "Natives on the beach; fired
gun, and they went away.’’ On Ist Oct., “ Natives
speared Ah Sam in seven places”—and then, on the
game day, and God only knows what sho suffered as she
wrote those last words, comes' the close of the diary :
««Qot three spears from the natives; saw ten men
altogether’’—a big dash, and then her life and her diary
are alike a blank till the last great day, when all
secrets shall be made known! No one can tell the
meaning of those words, “got three spears;” sho may
have received them in her body, or captured them with
her hand; bat there is no whisper of fear, no faltering
in tho clear, hold writing, no blot or tear on the page
where; the words still stand. Surrounded by cannibals,
her two protectors killed, she probably fought and died
like a noble heroine of old; brave arid dauntless to the
last. It i* hoping against hope to think of hei* as still
alive; tsvery effort that ellergy and humanity coaid
make to find her has been made; and now only one more
step must he taken, the last act of the tragedy—ven.
geanbe.
Mr. David Buohanan is usually effective in his
address to juries. Hero are the results—gathered from
the Gapwn; Law Office records:—loo criminal cases, 78
acquittals.
Mr. Darley, Q.C., visits England on family
business in about two months. Mr, G. B. (ex* Judge)
Simpson intends leaving the colony by the Carthage,
towards * h end of December, and joining several
znemberc v/i his family now on the Continent.
Here is a parallel between Gar field and Lincoln.
Both were born in log cabins in the wilderness, both
very poor, both bom with highest talents, and known
in their boyhood as possessing remarkable mental
ability and promise; neither enjoyed early school ad.
vantages. At eight years old, Lincoln lost his mother;
at eighteen, Garfield his father. Both did farm work
and chopped wood for a living. Lincoln ran a flat boat
on the Missisaipi; Garfield drove the mules of a canal
boat on the Ohio Canal. Both possessed every cardinal
virtue; both taught in a back wood school; both studied
law. Each was the young''*! member of the legislature
and the youngest officer of the army in which he served.
Both eloquent speakers, and opponents of slavery.
Lincoln promoted Garfield to tho rank of Major-General.
Both were assassinated, and both were universally res-
pected, and mourned throughout the civilized globe.
Some time since, Mr. F. A. Packer, of Hobart,
pointed out that a copy of verses contributed to tho
Evening News by that illustrious bardess, “Ada,” was
a plagiarism, inasmuch as it was almost identical with
stanzas (headed, we believe, “Ebb and Flow,”) con-
tributed by him to the Australasian some time pre-
viously. A Tasmanian correspondent now sends us the
following, out from an English periodical, of a
date in 1874, and wants to know whether Mr. Packer
has ever read it before. It will be remembered that
“Ada” denied ever having seen “Ebband 5low” in
the Australasias
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Destructive petroleum fire at Bristol Sendall,
nominee of Sir Hercules Kobinson. not to be appointed
Governor of Natal.,..-..Hir Garnet Wolseley to be Adja-
tant-General of the British Forces in April next
Convention of Irishmen at Chicago; 1000 delegates
assembled j programme supporting the land reform
movement, 4c., in Ireland adopted Party of Austrian
soldiers defeated by Bosnians; twenty killed Trial
of Quiteau, the assasin concluded; prisoner was
allowed to give evidence in his own behalf, and ascribed
his act to the prompting* of the Deity Bismarck
severely defeated in the German Parliament Twenty
earthquake shocks felt in Switzerland London
wool market easier Sara Bernhardt, the celebrated
actress, mobbed in Odessa by an anti-Jewish mob. To
save her life, she threw them her jewels, but they were
discovered to he of no value, and a second assault
occurring, her life was only saved by the intervention
of the police Mills destroyed at Glasgow, loss
JESO.COO Bradlaugh granted a new trial in the case
brought against him for illegally sitting in the House of
Common* Process-server murdered in Queen’s
County, Ireland Eighty thousand pounds jewellery
robbery in Wales, G, Britain Humoured Dalmatian
rising denied Attack on Jews at St. Petersburg
immineut Earl Crawford’s remains were stolen last
May. A ransom is demanded by the thieves......lndian
Government propose repealing the cotton duties and
instituting an income tax Freyhuensen, new Ameri-
can Secretary of State Great fire at Boston; loss
'half million dollars Continuous arrests of suspects
in Ireland .General refusal to pay rent in the south
and west of Ireland A picked crew from H.M.S.
London, at Zanzibar, proceeded in a pinnace to attack
a slaver. A severe conflict ensued, and Captain Brown,
rig? and four others werp killed. The slaver escaped,
but with severe loss..
A musical union is to bo started at TownsvHle.
The indispensable Mr. A. Johnston is, of course, the
eader.
Tho Willoughby Estate, North Shore, as we
anticipated, resulted in a high average figure being
obtained. The land sold up to 375. 6d. per foot. Tho
whole sub-division was cleared.
That clever exponent of the noble art, Young
Dntchey, who is light-weight champion of England,
has arrived in Sydney from Newcastle, and is now a
shining light among the talent. Address for intending
pupils, Pun h’s Hotel.
When the Premier misses the mountain-train
by three minutes, he just gets a special carriage and
engine, and follows it up. The other night, the or-
dinary train was detained ten minutes at Granville in
order to allow Sir Henry’s engine to overtake it.
The Apollo Candle Company’s picnic took place
on Monday, at Tennyson. The Defiance was engaged
to take the large company down. There were a good
“spread,” speeches, races, and tho usual amount of
blow—or rather, breeze; on the water, of course, we
mean.
Herr Hugo Alpen has composed a new Grand
Maes, which will be given at St. Mary’s pro-Cathedral,
at High Mass, at eleven o’clock this day (Thursday).
The musical effects will bo helped ont by a stringed
quartette—Messrs. Francig, Wiloeok, Flachmann, and
Andreavitcb, of the Austrian Baud, being the per
formers.
“BETWEEN THE EBB AND FLOW.
“ The evening breeze is singing low
A lullaby to-day.
I have a q restion I would ask
Before it dies. away.
The pebbles on 'the beach are dry,
Tho tide has sunken low :
A little form is standing there
Between the ebb and flow.
“ A tangled mass of soft brown hair.
Two eyes cast meekly down,
A little face the sun has kissed,
Two cheeks a little brown;
Two little lips that, pout and say,
* I do not think I know ■/'
Two little lips that tell a fib 1
Beween the ebb and flow.
" A little heart that longing waits
To know what next ’twill hear,
A little face that shyly looks
To see if still I’m near.
Ah I little heart that whispered * Yes,’
Though pouting lips said ‘ No.’
Ton thought that you’d be asked again
Between the ebb and flow."
“ A little face half-frightened when
I turn to go nwny.
Two little hands that shyly reach
As if to bid me stay;
A little voice that softly say*,
* I did not mean that No ;*
A little pride that well wav lost.
Between the ebb and flow.”


Obtain a Litho. at the Rooms
HIGHFIELD, HIGHFIELD,
WAVEELEY.
COMPBISING the PROPERTY lately occupied by
Mr. Fitzhardinge, and LANDDOWNB, the
property of W. Cary, Esq.
51 OP THE GRANDEST VILLA AND MANSION
SITES ever submitted to public competition,
judiciously subdivided by
Mr. SUEVETOE THOMPSON,
and codtaining an area
of
TEN ACEES
of the
MOST VALUABLE LAND
in the
HEART OP WAVEELET.
BEING WITHIN ONE MINUTE’S WALE
OF THE TEAMWAT,
subdivided as follows
THREE ALLOTMENTS,
FEONTING SOUTH HEAD ROAD.
TWO ALLOTMENTS,
FEONTING BOTANY STEEET.
%* These five allotments have long been considered
the CHOICEST in WAVERLEY; they command a
most lovely and uninterrupted view of the harbour, and
are admirably adapted for VILLA or MANSION
SITES.
TWENTY-SIX ALLOTMENTS,
FEONTING WAVEELEY STEEET.
NINE ALLOTMENTS,
FRONTING LLANDAFF STREET.
SEVEN ALLOTMENTS,
FRONTING CAEY STEEET.
POUR ALLOTMENTS,
FEONTING EBLEY STEEET.
Etch of these allotments has a frontage to a good wide
road, those on the south frontages having a most
extensive and charming View of BOTANY and
PETERSHAM districts,
GOOD BACK ENTRANCE
TO NEARLY EVERT ALLOTMENT.
ON THE PROPERTY
is A
FIRST-CLASS FAMILY RESIDENCE,
KNOWS AS
LANSDOWNE HOUSE.
containing 8 GOOD ROOMS, Kitchen, Pantry,
Cellar, Laundry, Washhouse, Hayloft, Man's Boom.
Stables, *c. At present occupied by Mr. John
Bell.
AND WITH IT WILL BE SOLD A GOOD
BLOCK OP LAND.
The advantages of living at Highfleld are very great.
THE AIR IS PURE, the MEANS of ACCESS
Daily INCREASING,
THE VIEWS ABE CHARMING.
The Waverley Park is but one Minute Distant; the
class of building is fixed; and it is snrronnded by
FIRST-CLASS PROPERTIES.
Notably that of J. H. Newman, Esq.
To persons requiring a SITE FOE A VILLA, the
Auctioneers RECOMMEND STRONGLY the IN-
SPECTION of this property, it being the last avail-
able on the
NORTHERN SLOPE,OF WAVERLEY.
LITHOGRAPHS MAY BE OBTAINED
AT THE ROOMS.
HARDIE AND DORMAN
aAVE received instructions to sell by public
notion,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, 17th DECEMBER,
3.30 o’clock,
THE WHOLE OP THE HIGHFIELD ESTATE,
i. 3 BEFOKE MENTIONED.
INSPECT THE LAND PRIOR TO THE SALE.
CAMELLIA GBO7E,
ASHFIELD,
CAMELLIA GBOYE, CAMELLIA GROVE,
ASHFIELD. #
KNOWN AND FAMED WIDE AND FAB
as
"UNDERWOOD'S GARDEN,”
UNDERWOOD'S GARDEN,
UNDERWOOD'S GARDEN.
TEDLT A
PARADISE OF THE CHOICEST FRUITS AND
FLOWERS.
CAMELLIAS, ROSES, GERANIUMS,
PANSIES, VIOLETS, DAISIES,
LILIES. DAHLIAS, FORGET-ME-NOTS,
AND ALT.
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS AND SHRUBS.
Also,
PEACHES, PEARS, APPLES, PLUMS, APRICOTS
BANANAS, ORANGES, GRAPES. GROW
W'this
MOST BEAUTIFUL SPOT
IN THE
UTMOST PROFUSION AND LUXURIANCE.
*** A SIGHT WELL WORTH SEEING—
GAMELLIA GROVE, as it now Is,
in FULL BLOOM.
THE GARDEN OF ASHFIELD,
CAMELLIA GROVE.
Where does the JocarandaMimosifolia grow ? Why, at
CAMELLIA GROVE, ASHFIELD.
FRONTAGES TO THE VERT BEST STREETS IN
ASHFIELD, viz.,
PARRAMATTA ROAD,
ALT STREET,
and
BLAND STREET.
CAMELLIA GROVE
QUICK, QUlCK,obtain apian of this, the choicest spot
in Ashflcld, and be at the sale
on
THURSDAY AFTERNOON, DECEMBER 15,
at 6 o’clock,
ON THE GROUND.
Only SEE the LAND, and you are BOUND TO
PURCHASE
CAMELLIA GROVE.
This VERY CHOICE and VALUABLE BLOCK
OP LAND, long known as “UNDERWOOD’S
GARDEN,” has been subdivided by Mr. Licensed-
Surveyor BINSTED into 17 splendid BUILDING
SITES, having frontages varying from 85 feet 3
inches to 60 feet by depths of from 207 feet 6 inches
to 160 (most of the lots are 50 x 150), facing the
very best streets in ASHFIELD, viz., PARRA-
MATTA ROAD, ALT and BLAND STREETS,
situate within 5 MINUTES’ easy walk of the
STATION.
*,* THE VILLA, a pretty detached BRICK BUILD-
ING, with numerous OUT-OFFICES, standing in
the centre of highly-improved grounds, containing
every variety of ORNAMENTAL SHRUBS and
FRUIT TREES in fall bearing, standing on LAND
having 277 feet frontage to ALT STREET, by 302
feet In depth on one side and 300 feet 9 inches on
the other —say nearly 2 ACRES in area, will be also
offered at the SAME TIME.
V NEVER-FAILING SPRING OF WATBB ON
THE PROPERTY.
BATT, ROOD, AND PURVES
AVE received instructions to sell the above
valuable estate, without exaggeration the PICK
F ASHFIELD,
THURSDAY, 15th DECEMBER,
at 5 p.m.,
ON THE GROUND.
ear The allotments have been pegged out by Mr.
Licensed-Surveyor BINSTED, with a view to seoure to
EACH ALLOTMENT a good BUILDING SITE, PER-
FECT DRAINAGE, and a share of the valuable fruit
and ornamental trees and shrubs; thus all those who
BUILD will enjoy the GREAT ADVANTAGE of a
GARDEN READY MADE FOR THEM.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
TEEMS VERY EASY.
Note.—SPECIAL ATTENTION is directed to this
sale. Remember, it is BUT SELDOM that LAND
situate like this in
THE VERY CENTRE OF ASHFIELD,
THE
MOST FASHIONABLE RAILWAY SUBURB,
Comes into the market, hence the VALUE of the
PRESENT OPPORTUNITY.
REMEMBER,
THURSDAY, DECEMBER
at 5 o’clock,
ON THE GROUND.
15,
LITHOGRAPHS NOW READY,
r ITHOS. OF CAMELLIA GROVE, THE
1 i GARDEN OF ASHFIELD, axe now ready,
BATT, BOD®, AND PURVES.
U B U E N DOWNS.
AUBURN DOWNS. AUBURN DOWNS.
AUBURN DOWNS.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
EVERT LOT MUST BE SOLD.
POSITIVELY WITHOUT RESERVE,
SATURDAY, SATURDAY,
DECEMBER 17.
AT 3.P.5., ON THE GROUND.
Keep this Sale BEFORE yon, and on NO
ACCOUNT FORGET IT.
**• To meet the WISHES of the FORMER PUR-
CHASERS, and in answer to NUMEROUS IN-
QUIRIES, the owners of this VALUABLE ESTATE
have instructed BATT, RODD, and PURVEB to oiler
the whole of the UNSOLD SECTIONS by PUBLIC
AUCTION, on
SATURDAY, 17th DECEMBER,
QN THE GROUND.
V THE TEEMS will" be on the same LIBERAL
SCALE as at the FORMER SALE—viz , 20 per cent
DEPOSIT ; the balance in equal payments at 4, 12,18,
and 21 months from date of sale, with interest at only
5 per cent.; and the whole will be offered
WITHOUT RESERVE, to close the ESTATE
TRUST.
NOTE—Every Allotment MUST BE SOLD; our in-
structions are to clear off the whole of the remaining
lots.
•** This VALUABLE ESTATE needs no COMMENT
of onrs to recommend it to the PUBLIC, the result of
the former Sale, when over -| (two-thirds) of the
ESTATE wore disposed of (want ot time, owing to the
number of allotments, alone preventing every lot from
being sold), SPBAKS FOR ITSELF.
HOWEVER,
We cannot help pointing out that all the STREETS
have been cleared and made, are 66 FEET WIDE, the
allotments over 200 FEET IN DEPTH, adjoining the
STATION; that since the last sale the ESTATE HAS
INCREASED IN VALUE VERY GREATLY.
IN CONCLUSION,
all we ask is—INSPECT THE LAND: we will be quite
satisfied with the RESULT.
TITLE, TORRENS’ ACT.
FRESH PLANS, showing the UNSOLD PORTIONS
of tho Estate, are now in theprintor's hands, and will
bo ready in tho course of a FEW DAYS.
REMEMBER—
SATURDAY, 17th DECEMBER,
at 3 p.m.,
ON THE GROUND.
BATT, RODD, AND PURVES.
LAST JDHANCE.
SPECIAL HOLIDAY OFFER, GOOD TILL
JANUARY Ist, 1882.
CAPE GOLD WATCHES, FOR 275. 6J.
The best in Australia.
Everybody satisfied with their bargain. Those not
having taken advantage of this splendid opportunity,
should certainly do so at once, as it is positively the
last chance.
SOLID CAPE GOLD CASES (HUNTING).
THE CASES of these Watches are made from a
Metal that keeps its colour and never tarnishes,
and we ore new introducing it for the first time in this
country. It costs more than other so-called Metals, as
it contains a
PER-CENTAGE OP PURE GOLD, .
without which no Metal can be made that will keop
its colour.
OUR WATCHES
are in every particular equal in appearance to a
£5O GOLD WATCH.
The Works of those Watches, like tho works of all
onr Watches, are of the best make. Hunting, Cased,
Full Plate, Jewelled, and well finished, we claim for
onr Watches every merit that is claimed for any Gold
Watch costing £5O or more.
In order to introduce onr watches in the most speedy
manner, we have decided on offering, through the
medium of the Coupon fonnd below, one of the above-
mentioned Watches tor
ONLY 27a. 6d.,
and present each purchaser with a beautiful
ALBERT CHAIN
made from the same metal,
CAPE GOLD,
which answers tho purpose of virgin gold, and can bo
manufactured for loss'than HALF pure gold (solid).
After the Ist January, 1882, the regular price will be
charged for these Watches, viz., £4 10s. each, and 255.
each for Chains.
CUT THIS OUT,
COUPON.
On receipt of this Coupon and 275. 6d., we
agree to send FREE, one
Cape Gold Watch,
as described above, together with a hand-
some CAPE GOLD ALBERT CHAIN.
(Signed)
A. D. LUDLOW. Jus., & Co.,
Hnater-street, Sydney.
Notice.
No watch will bo sent without the Coupon accom-
panying the order, and this offer is good for the balance
of the year only. When P. O. Order cannot be pro-
cured. Stamps to the value of 30s. will bo received.
Send at once and secure this Gift, or it may be too late.
Address all Orders to
A. D. LUDLOW, Jun, and Co.,
HUNTER STREET
(Between Pitt and George Streets),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TO WATCH SPECULATORS.
These Watches will sell readily at £5 up.
THE GREATEST SALE OF THE SEASON.
LEUEA ESTATE,
LEURA ESTATE,
, LEUBA ESTATE,
BLUE MOUNTAINS,
KaTOOMBA,
THIS RAPIDLY 'ADVANCING AND
COUNTRY RETREAT POPULAR.
V 3549 FEET ABOVE THE LEVEL OF
THE SEA, AND
ONLY 61 MILES FROM THE METROPOLIS.
GEORGE WITHERS AND COMPANY
HAVE received instructions to sell by PUBLIC
AUCTION,
on
SATURDAY, 17th DECEMBER,
ON THE GROUND,
AT 3, P.M.
WITHOUT RESERVE,
The LEURA ESTATE, comprising 500 ACRES of ex.
ceedingly BI.CH LAND. COMMANDING GRAND
and EXTENSIVE VIEWS of THE MOST
PICTURESQUE SCENERY in New South Wales,
THIS MAGNIFICENT ESTATE
Is close to the KATOOMBA STATION, and has a
frontage to the Groat Western Railway Lino of one and a
half mile.
The LEURA FALLS are close to the property; the
Wentworth and KATOOMBA FALLS are all within
easy walking distance,
ON EITHER SIDE.
The only ACCESSIBLE ROAD from MOUNT HAY
COAL-FIELDS to the BAIL abuts on this property, *
and connects with the Old Bathurst Road, which runs
parallel to the RAILWAY LINE.
WENTWORTH FALLS STATION
is only TWO MILES FROM THE PROPERTY.
KATOOMBA FALLS HALF-A-MILE.
%• SPECIAL FEATURES
GRAND VIEWS,
GOOD SOIL,
HEALTHY POSITION
*** SPECIAL INDUCEMENTS
WIDE ROADS,
ELEVATED LAND,
EASY ACCESS BY TRAIN,
LIBERAL FRONTAGES AND DEPTHS.
THE DEMAND FOR LAND IN THIS FAVOURITE
LOCALITY is RAPIDLY INCREASING, and bids
fair to far exceed the supply; therefore, those in search
of such arc directed to THIS SALE, for SECURING
the best position in this far-famed MOUNTAIN RE-
TREAT.
ear FINGER POSTS will bo erected upon the
ESTATE, showing the position of the DIFFERENT
STREETS, thus enabling intending purchasers to find
the VARIOUS ALLOTMENTS WITHOUT the
SLIGHEST DIFFICULTY.
A PLATFORM will be ERECTED on the PRO-
PERTY, at a POINT MIDWAY BETWEEN tho
WENTWORTH and KATOOMBA FALLS STATIONS.
**• The Government have determined to erect a
PUBLIC SCHOOL AT KATOOMBA.
Also a portion of GROUND has been set apart for
CHURCH purposes. A magnificent mansion has beon
erected in the vicinity by Mr. Thompson, of Pitt-stroet;
also several private residences, in thoimost improved
and modem styles, will shortly be in course of erection,
which is sufficient indication for the futuro of this
rising township.
The ESTATE is ADJACENT to the excellent site
selected by Dr. JONES, which speaks highly for tho
HEALTHY BRACING CLIMATE of KATOOMBA.
There is AN ABLNDANCE of FREESTONE.
SUITABLE for BUILDING PURPOSES, PROCUR-
ABLE ON THE ESTATE.
The ROADS on this ESTATE are from 66 to 100
FEET WIDE, and it has beon SUBDIVIDED on the
MOST LIBERAL SCALE, in HALF-ACRE to 5-ACRB
BLOCKS, to snit nil classes of PURCHASERS.
ALSO,
NUMEROUS VILLA SITES.
Comprising AREAS of from TWO to SIX ACRES.
The SITES have UNRIVALLED VIEWS of the SUR-
ROUNDING COUNTRY for MILES.
This CHOICE PROPERTY, now in the bauds of Mr.
Licensed-Surveyor Murray, is, without doubt, tho
MOST MAGNIFICENT ESTATE ever offered to
public competition in the WESTERN DISTRICT.
The soil is unusually RICH, aud iu site, climate, and
elevation it has NO EQUAL. This land—an original
special selection, the timber of which consists of BOX.
TURPENTINE, IBONBARK, OAK, &c, Ac. &c.—is
really valuable. There isan ABUNDANCEof WATER
all over the ESTATE. The natural facilities for drain-
age and other necessary details, will have special at-
tention.
V large government reserve adjoins
THE PROPERTY ON THE SOUTH SIDE.
The GREAT WESTERN HO TEL, to contain 7(
rooms, now in course of erection, is CLOSE to thi
ESTATE.
PURCHASERS would do well to WITHHOLD theii
INTENDED PURCHASES EL SEW HE HE, as ar
OPPORTUNITY such as this is seldom to he met with
The terms are EXCEEDINGLY REASONABLE, a:
follows, viz 10 per cent, on faT of the hammer, 1(
per cent, in 3 months, without interest ; tho ba’ance al
6, Ig, 18, and 24 months, bearing the low rate of interest
of 5 per cent.
THE TITLE IS CROWN GRANT.
LITHOS. ABE NOW READY, and can be bad upoi
APPLICATION at the ROOMS OF THE AUO
TIONEERS.
SPECIAL TRAIN ENGAGED.
Leaves Sydney at 9.45 a.ra., calling at Newtown, Peter
sham, Ashfield, Burwood, Homebush, and Parramatta
to
CONVEY INTENDING PURCHASERS TO
THE ESTATE.
PROPERTY AUCTION SALE ROOMS—
-136 PITT STREET, near King-street.
GILCHRIST, WATT, AND CO.
SOLE AGENTS FOR NEW SOUTH WALES
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.


Hotels, Sec.
Kiama hotel, kla m a,
G. TORY, Profeietoe.
.. Commercial Travellers, Excursionists, Holiday-
seekers, and persons travelling generally, will find this
hotel the best and cheapest on the Southern coast. A
splendid table kept, anti every convenience for families,
travelling shows, &3. Sample room for Commercial
Travellers.
The “ Laycock” Coach meets the steamer, and carries
passengers, luggage; fee.. to and from the wharf or to any
part of the country. Baggies and horses always for
hire. Billiards.
T
ICE ICE ICE
E
rfflHE ICE COMPANY, having made such
ADDITION to their WORKS as to enable them to
Manufacture upwards of TEN TONS of ICE pier diem,
are prepared to Supply the LUXURY during the AP-
PROACHING SUMMER, at a lower rate than ever.
For prices, (fee.,
Apply to
3 WYNTARD STREET,
OK TO VARIOUS AGENTS.
ROBEET BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Peompt Attention,
T
HE AUSTEALIAN
“HOME" SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
OSS
c
A'
*
<iA/
fglO effectually stop the deception that has been
JL practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPY OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carofully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, ws will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
:20,0C0 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I,—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3. —Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian “ Homo ” Shatt.c
Machines, marked as above, ara not procurable, wo will
send thorn direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sols Ago#ts for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO..
WYNTARD LANE, SYDNEY.
*3* LOOK FOR THE NAM 1! 1
w.
II ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
313 and 315 Kent-steeet, near King-steeet.
I,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned
B. Whittingham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Bencraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
313 and 315 KENT-STRBET, near King-street.
G. CHURCH WOOD,
SALT MERCHANT.
IMPORTER and MANUFACTURER
of
COFFEES,
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS.
SPICES, RICE, and MEALS.
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
OFFICE and STORES :-117 YORT STREET,
SYDNEY.
S
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
SHOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869;George-street South.
jpAPERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-streoVSouth.
WHITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMENT
fee., fee.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 849 George-street South.
jpLATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE F, MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Tobacconists
SRg
TIN TAG!
T I N TAG!
Cantioa to Storekeepers.
ANYONE selling Tobacco with, any Round Tin Tn»
other than those bearing our brands ®
“CONQUERER” or “YANKEE DOODLE"
is infringing our rights, and will be proceeded aeaiw
by Law. Bt '
We are obliged to give this notice, as a Sydney Mann
facturer has been sending out one of his inferior bn>i.rt.
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag. QS
WE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
DIXSON AND SONS,
155 YOPE STREET. V
TOBACCO SMOKERS,
Note the Above.
m
DV
Wm
J.EVE . TOBACCONIST .149
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 EHSTG STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All bran is of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlcreagh-street, next corner
King-street. Established 1859,
TJLATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINGS
(a really splendid stock).
EDOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, &o.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281. GEORGE-ST.
I
NDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY,
705 GEOEGE-STREET,
HAYMARKET.
Onr “STAR OF INDIA TEAS" ‘•re renowned
for theit fine AROMA, PUNGENCY, and GRIP.
Packed fresh on the premises every’day, in slb.,
lib., and 21b. packets, and retailed at the follow,
ing prices:—ls. 3J., Is. 6d., 25., 2s, 6d., 35., and
4s. per lb.
WE ALSO OFFER SUPERIOR SUGARS and
GENERAL GROCERIES cheap for cash.
R. OLIVER,
Manager,
jq' O T I C E.
To J.S.G., —You ask me the Weight of one Cubic Foo
of Gold. It weighs One Ton.
E. CLARKSON.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.* ,
FELT.
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in
summer, warm in winter, and is almost
incbmbustible, For laying under carpets, .
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and |
wear twice as long. For covering steam j
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat;
great saving of fuel'; apply several layers
The cheapest felt in the world. Manu-
factured at the Paper Works, Liver-
pool. Sold by all Ironmongers,
Warehousemen & Storekeepers
Price, & 6d per yd,
30 A 40 inches wide,
any length
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
■36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.'
Hotels, &o.
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, 3go.
ROBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER DOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
N.B.—Cockbnm's Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the host
fitted rooms in th« colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
The compagnoni catering company
OP PITT-STREET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior “ Alcock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch ©f Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£JITY OATEEING (JOMPANY,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris* Cafd, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind inj urions to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets,Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(J HA S. R. gMI T H,
MANAGER.
FSAGASG
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
M
OHN
.wd
fee*
It is of tho utmost import an os that contents of each
bottle should bo carefully compared, as largo quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of tho
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LOENE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,"AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
I MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen,
ALBUEY WINES.
POET MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, ho
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although tho principal business will ba transacted at
the above address, tho CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
W Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with tho utmost prompti-
tude.
£jHRISTMAS
WINES.
HOOKINGS and Co. invite buyers to book orders for
their Christmas supplies without delay. Address—
Opposite City Bank, Pitt-street. HIGH CLASS
WINES ONLY.
R. LARK N,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPP3 STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-43 Georgo-street West (late Parramatta-sweet),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wike and Spieit Meeceant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarkot,
FDKJSAHFKJASHPFA
The Hama of M. MOSS 4 00.
I« on crery Genuine Bottle.
IT Is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Do*
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has the same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog, J, E. CATTELL and
CO., Solo Agents,
go AE’S HEAD
STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
rt
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of AETHUE GUINNESS
xnd CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To b® Procured Everywhere.
J E. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.


An action for cvim. con. is not now maintain-
able in N.S.W.
“ Jack, the Butcher’s Corner,” is the title of a
larrikin rendezvous in Bourke-s root. The hours on
Sunday arc from 83) p.m. to 11 53 pm. These are tb
hours, likewise, between which the lespectablo peOp'o
of the neiehbouruood dose their doors and pull down
their windows. It is the very lime, however, when tl o
police are some place el; o.
It early profits on London papers, sajs Harper's
Magazine, are as follow Daily Telegraph, £l2O 000
a year; Standard, £65 003; Daily News, £30,000-
MoßNrao Post, £lO.OOO. Thirty years ago, the Times!
which is not given to boasting l , stated in an elitoriai
artmle that its gross income was equal to that oftho
most flourishing l of the German princip iliuea ” lha*-
is to say, the Times with its 70,0 0 circnlaticn
makes a yearly profit of £1,036,000.
“ Can You Swim ?” —Professor Cavill, the world
renowned swimmer will undertake to Daoh any one to
swim in six lessons, for one guinea, at the Lavender
Bay Baths. These baths are romantically situated o-i
the North Shore, the water being beautifully puie
Visitors from Sydney can have a nice outing and a
path, and be back within the hour. Return boat faro
batb, 6d. Open for ladU s every mamino l from
10 till 1, and on Wednesday afternoon from 3 till 5
Advt,
The Referee.
SPORTING PISTURES.
We shall bo glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING,
Temora December 8, 9-
Tasmanian J.C .December 10-
Bathtunt Amateur Turf Club December 10.
Queensland .-. December 10.
Hamilton (Vic.) December 14, 15.
WilUamstown (Vic.) December 24.
Hawke's Bay (N.Z.) Racing Chib. December 25.
Bairnsdale (Vic.) ! December 26, 27.
Wariaida J.C. Annual December.
A. J.C. Summer Meeting December 26.
Parramatta. December 26.
Mudgee December 28.
Deniliquin December 23.
Dubbo ..December 26.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
Pleasant Greek (Vic.) .....December 28, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club... .....December 26, 28.
Sydney Turf Club December 31.
Kensington Park (Vic.) December 31.
Auckland N Z ) Summer Dec. 23; Jan. 2, 3—1882
V.E.C. O' ■ -a January 2
Tattersalin. i jdnoy) January 3.
Forbes January 2
Hay '. Jaauiry 2, 3.
GDn Innes January 2, 3.
H ' Macquirie Januiry 3, 4.
J: ; \ on, Raugifibei (N.Z.) J.C Jaunary 2 and 3
Victorian Batting Club January 7
Geelong ...January 28, 27.
Brouleo January 23 and 27.
New England J.C January 26, 27.
Wellington (N.Z.) E.C. Summer Meeting ..Feb. 2 aud 3.
Vegetable Creek Febnary 9, 10.
Tasmanian Jockey C1ub..... February 14, 15, and 16.
Inverell February 17,18.
Tasmanian Turf Club February 22, 23.
Dunedin (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting.. Feb. 23,24,25.
V.E.C March 4,9, 11.
Wanganui (N.Z.) Autumn Meeting Mar. 11, 12.
ATonry March 16. 17.
Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.) Jockey Club Marsh 16 and 17.
AQUATICS.
Glebe E C December 17.
Snail’s Bay Amateur Regatta December 17.
Printers’ Regatta December 17.
Brisbane Regatta December 10.
South Australian Amateur Rowing Associa-
tion Ilsgatta : December 17.
Holdsworlh, Gardyno, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December 24.
Raymond Terrace Regatta December 26.
Pynnont Regatta December 23.
Newcastle Auau.il Regatta January 2.
Lane Cove Regatta January 2
Port Macquiiio Annual Regatta....' Januiry 2.
t toottou Regatta January 26
JlanUin v. B>yd, on the Tyne Apiil
PEDESTEIANISM.
Bathurst Athle tic Sports (..December 26.
Highland Sc.iety, Association Ground January 2.
CRICKET.
Programme of matches for the All-England
Eleven:—December against 22 of Cootamuu-
dra; December 9, 10, 12, against 11 of New South
Wales at Sydney ; December 16. 17, 19, against
11 of Victoria at Melbourne; December 23, 24,
26, against IS of South Australia at Adelaide ; Decem-
ber 31, January 2 and 3, Combined Australian Eleven at
Melbourne; January 12,13, 14, against 22 of Otago at
Dunedin; January 16 and 17, against Oamaru or
Timaru ; January 20, 21, 23, against 15 of Canterbury at
Christchurch; January!26, 27, 23, against 22 of Wel-
lington at Wellington; February 2,3, 4, against 22 of
Auckland at Auckland; February against Stara-
more 18 at Norwood Park ; February 17, 18, 20, against
Combined Australian Team at Sydney.
Holdaworth-Gardyne Cup matches Warwick
v. Carlton, December 17. Order of matches to follow :
Albert v. Carlton, Warwick v. University, v.. Carlton,
University, Albert v. Warwick, Warwick v. Carlton,
Albert v. Carlton, Albert v. University, Warwick v.
University.
SPOILTING AND ATHLETIC HEMS.
Neither Mata nor Le Loup started in tbe Can-
terbury Cup.
A 1000 miles bicycle race wa-3 commenced at
Melbourne on Monday.
Progress and Wellington are the favourites for
tbe Victorian Champion Race.
The Grip pai&y landed upwards of =£7ooo over
the Christchurch J.C. Handicap and Cap.
The new grand-stand at the Christchurch race*
course is a handsome and commodious one.
Tho absolute amount of profit gained by the
V.E.C. at their late Spring meeting is £B3OO.
Gipsy Cooper is backed for the double event at
Randwick on Boxing Day and New Year’s Day.
During the Christchurch (NZ ) meeting (three
days), nevrly £ll,OOO went through the totalisator.
Elias C. Laycock and Solomon left for Brisbane
on Saturday morning, to take part in tho regatta cn
S iturday next.
The proposed match between a horse belonging
to Mr. J. Robertson and one to be foaand by M Cliirn-
side, is declared off
Laycock and Solomon have entered for a pair-
09r event as well as for tho champion sculling match at
tbp Brisbane regatta.
The race between J. C. Laycock aud Messenger,
over the champion course, on Saturday, resulted iu an
easy victory for Messenger.
The Victorian Cricket Association have decided
to reduce tbeir charge for patronage of the. All-England
Eleven matches to 5 p r cent. Mr. Conway has accepted
the terms.
Temora acceptances Town Plate Handicap 9,
Temora J.C. Handicap 11. Miners’ Handicap Hurdle
Race 5, Two-year-old Stakes 3.
Messrs. F. C. Goyder and L. A. Pereira are
being prosecuted for having promoted and conducted
sweeps on the late Melbourne Cup.
A pigeon-flying match from Dunedin to Christ-
church (N.Z), 243 miles, was won by Bryenton’s
Potontee. • Time, 6 hours 55 minutes.
Entries for Tattersall’s Club meeting Hurdle
Rare 36, Selling Race 26, Tattersall’s Cup 47, Two-jear-
oli Selling Plato 18, New Year’s Gift 37.
Tho third-class race, under the auspices of the
Royal Sydney Yacht Club, was won by the Sirocco,
Guinevere being second, Pleiades third.
Entries for the Bathurst Amateur Races :
Bracelet 10, Turf Club Handicap 7, Welter Stakes 5,
Welter Soiling Race 4, Free Handicap 11.
Entries for the Sydney Turf Club meeting
Hurdle Race 20, Corinthian Cup 14, Ely Handicap 43,
Sapling Stakes 34, Turf Club Handicap 31.
At Christchurch (NZ.), Lurline’s dam, Mer-
maid, has foaled a chestnut colt to Korari, who has in
his veins precisely tho same blood as Darebiq.
It has been finally decided that the sculling
contest for the championship of the world, between
Hanlan and Boyd, shall be rowed on tho Type, in April
next.
Entries for the A. J.C. Summer meeting
Hurdle Race 18. December Stakes 23, Selling Plato 11,
Summer Cup 31, Two-year-old Plate 17, A J.Q. Han-
dicap 36.
Wo confidently anticipate that there will be
some tall scoring in the match between the All-England
and Sydney Elevens, which commences on Friday at
tho Association Ground. - The ground is in first-class
order, and experienced men pronounce the wickets to
be at least fully equal to anything in the world. A
portion of the grand-stand has been completed, and the
view of the ground therefrom is excellent. A new tele-
graph office has been erected, and ample accommodation
has been provided for tha scorers. We would suggest
that a new scoring-board be obtained, with figures
large enough to be easily discernible on the opposite
site of the ground.
On 22nd Sept, Signor Paglia, near Bologna,
killed 2183 swallows, bringing them down one by one
on the wing, in about twelve hours’ shooting.
An influential committee has been formed to
carry out a regatta on Anniversary Day. Mr. Vincent
Brown acts as secretary, and Mr, James P. Garvan,
treasurer.
Bonnor scored 171, including several fives and
one six. in a match with the Melbourne club on the Ist
instant. Boyle, playing at East Melbourne against
fifteen juniors, seored 85, *
The Hon. J. P. Bell’s mare, Wheatsheaf, the
data of Wheatear, broke her thigh on Sunday morning,
and has sines- been shot. Mr. Bell recently refnsod an
offer of 3001 guineas for her.
Cootamundra Races : —Plying Handicap ; Black-
bird 1, Lily 2, Robin 3. Substitute Handicap: Mes-
senger 1, Robin 2, Killarney 3. Turf Club Handicap:
Dictator 1, Rainbow 2, Scud 3.
The second practice match for the intercolonial
hand-bail contest takes place to-day (Saturday), at
Dillon s Court, when A. Dillon and C. Farrell are to
play the three next best players. v* -
At a meeting of the Royal Sydney Yacht Club
on the Ist instant. Dr. Mackellar was elected commo-
dore, Mr. A. G. Milson vice-commodore, and Mr. J K
Love member of the committee.
Colac Regatta, December 2: First-class Yacht
Race: Grand Flaneur 1. Senior Eight-oar Race: Mel-
bourne City Club 1. Maiden Eight-oar Race: Victoria
Club 1. Senior Fours: Colac Club 1.
The English Eleven defeated the Bathurst
Twcnty-two bv-76 runs. C. Tumor, the Bathurst
bowler, secured all th.o wickets in tbo second inniogs of
the English team at a cost to him of 36 runs.
Nominations for Bega Races Maiden Plate 16,
Trial Stakes 7. Bega Cup 20, Welter Handicap 14,
Members’ Handicap 18, Hurdle Race 16, Town Plate 22,
Yuraminie District Purse 10, Plying Handicap 22.
Following are the South Australian Fifteen to
play against the English Eleven Slight, Knill,
Pettinger, Beran, Bottea, Jarvis, Noel, King, Jones,
Giifen, Richards, Quilty, Groden, Thnrgarland, and
Hide.
There is a decided falling off in the catch of
salmon in the Derwent. It would X e well if the salmon
commissioners were to throw portions of the river open
to netting—under proper rules and regulation*. The
river is overstocked.
The English cricketers had a very rough passage
to America. Barlow and Pilling were tally a week sea-
sick ; the former thought he would never sea Lancashire
again. Peato, Uiyott, and Midwinter were the best
sailors of the team.
Port Augusta (S.A.) Races. Second day
Maiden Plate: Stella 1, Cowra 2, Flinders 3. Handicap:
Brigand 1, Crystal 2, Mesalliance 3. Steeplechase:
Tancredl. Forced Handicap: King Lnd 1, Brigands.
D.O.D. 3. Booth’s Purse : D.O.D. 1.
All-England Eleven v. Orange Twenty-two.
The Eleven, 193—Barlow (not out) 60, Scotton 26
Shrewsbury 21, IJlyett 13, Midwinter 35, Emmett 16,
Bates 11, Peate 10. Iho Twenty-two, first innings, 65
Meares 16; second innings, 39—Downe 13.
Six individual scores of 100 and over have been
made this season on the Association Ground:—Allen
HI, A. Bannerman 110 (twice), Jones 107 and ICO, Mus-
grove 126. The high scorirg may be attributed to the
excellence of the wickets aud the mediocrity of the
bowling.
Some curious revelations have come out at Tat-
tersall’a Club, Christchurch (N.Z), over the way in
which handicaps are made out for the C.J.C. in that
city. The names of Mason and Val lance, H. P. Lance,
and G. G. Stead figured most prominently in conversa-
tion. Mr. Griffiths is handioappor to the club.
Thejbilliard match, 1000 ud, for the champion-
ship of Australia, between J. Stri'tch and J. Byrne was
played at St James’ Hall, Melbourne, and resulted in a
victory for Byrne by 49 points. The game was close
and exciting. Tee largest break was by Byrne, 96, in-
cluding 30 spot strokes. Stritch’s largest break was 38,
Tho “go-as-you-please” at Geelong, a week or
two ago, was enlivened by a little “do-as-you please ”
on the track. Owing to one of the markers making an
erro". Baker and Edwarls quarrelled, and Swan, who
interfered, hod a short fight with Baker. The pair were
separated, ard wont on walking; but the “ go in" would,
of course, help to freshen them up.
The winning numbers in Theodore Brown’s
Auckland (N Z.) £10,003 sweep were—Zulu, 8678; Czar,
1233; Sweetmeat, 1340. The names of tho holders of
these numbers have not been disclosed, and all sorts of
unkind things are being said about the drawing. By
the way, the promoter of a certain big N.Z. sweep is
believed to keep his bank account in Sydney.
After the cricket match at Orange, a dramatic
entertainment was given in aid of the funds of tho
local cricket dab, by the Fire Brigade Dramatic Club.
Tho Iropbies won during the past season were pre-
sented by Mr. A. Kerr, M P. Mr. Milder received a
gold locket for tho best all-ronnd play! and Mr. Booth
received two gold lockets for the highest bowling
average.
The Carlton AVar wick match for the Holde-
worth-Gardyne Gup was commenced on Saturday, at
the Association Ground. The Carltons lost 6 wickets
for 309, all the batsmen obtaining double figure.?. A
Bauuertnan played a very steady innings for 110. The
fielding of some of the Warwick team was excellent; of
others, very bad. Nettle distinguished.himself behind
the wicket.
The match between the Albert and University
Clubs for the Holdsworth-Girdyue Cup, was concluded
on Wednesday week, when the Alberts, for the first time
for some years, sustained adefeit. Scores: U.C.C., 161
and 323; A.C.C, 277 and 141. Tha U.G.O , being more
than 80 runs behind in tho first innings, had to follow
on, and succeeded in eventually winning the match, —a
feat similar to that perform :d by the same club two
seasons ago, at tho Inter-University match at Mel-
bourne. »
The remaining items of the North Shore Regatta
were contested on Wet ne? day week, with the following
results Senior sculls in outriggers: Wyvem, (H.
Rich) 1, Witch, (T. Thomson) 2, Miideu oarsman pulling
four oars in string-test gigs : N S R C, A. Bode, C. W.
Chambers, H. E Phillips, R. Lifct'e (stroke), l.<
Scratch fours in string-test gigs: East St. Leonards,
H- Bode, S. G. Robey, H. A. Fitzpatrick, H. Rich
(stroke), 1.
The old proverb, “ There’s many a slip,” &c.,
was never better exemplified than on Saturday, on the
Association Ground, when A. Bannerman, having
scored 110, had to get but two rnns to top tho highest
score for the trophy this season (Allen 111). He made
a splendid leg-hio, which was smartly fielded and re-
turned by Downes, thereby preventing a run. In the
same over, Biuncrman tried another log-hit, bat
spooned tho bail, and was well caught by Downes.
“ Thou art so near, and yet 8 c far."
A correspondent writes from Blackall (Q.): —
“ The Blackall Christmas races coma off on Dec. 23 and
27. The added money amounts to £340, and has all
been subscribed in the town. I believe we are the
greatest racing community in Queensland. Where
would yon fled a town with 507 inhabitants (vide census)
to beat it? At our annual meeting in July, to which
all the squatters in the district subscribe, the added
money makes £-000. Even when the Premier came
hero, we had an afternoon’s racing—big money, £15."
Shoalhavcn Races, December 1, 2. First day.
Maiden Plate, 1J tniie: Paul 1, Moonlight 2, Idle Girl
8; time, 2min. 23seo. Handicap: Kelso I, Paul 2.
Oscar 3; time, 2min. 46sec. Ladies’ Purse, I miles
Kelso 1, Numba 2, Lady Laura 3; time, Imin. 43seo.
Hack Handicap: Dundee I.—Second day. Handicap,
1) mile : Moonlight 1, Butterfly 2, Lady Laura 3. Turf
Club Handicap, R mile: Panl 1, Kelso 2, Oscar 3.
Prince of Wales’ Stakes, once round: Numba 1, Dun-
dee 2, Florrie 3. Handicap, | of a mile: Dundee 1,
Spec 2, Lenora, 3. Forced Handicap, once round:
Moonlight 1, Butterfly 2.
Notwithstanding that betting is strictly pro-
hibited in the Association pavilion, several of the local
members of the ring were there last Saturday, and each
had a double book (3 3 to 1) on the highest scorers of
the first innings of each side in the match which com-
mences to-morrow (Friday). The odds are ridiculously
low, and there will be no difficulty for each bookmaker
in getting round ; but viewing the harm that has been
done to cricket kero by the temporary excitement of
wagering, wo would suggest that the trustees should
take care to suppress this demoralising practice. A
professed bookmaker should be specially cautioned
against it.
SPOUTING GLEANINGS.
The Madera won the first heat for the prize of
£10 given by 4Ir. M'Gregor to the Derwent Yacht Club.
A cricket match came off at Taree recently between
the Good Templars and the non Good Templars, which
resnlted, after an exciting game, in a victory for the
latter, by 24 runs Holdsworth, Gardyuo and Co. v.
J. Macintosh and -’ons, on the Double B.iv Reserve.
Scores : Former, 16 and 60. Latter, 9). Pearso, 62 ;
James Macintosh, 11; T. Doran, 11. Pearso and
Thomson took 3 wickets each for 2 runs and 1 run re-
spectively The Campbelltown C.C. beat the Balmain
Surrys on Saturday, in a one-innings match, by 18
runs The Camden G. Club were defeated by the
Bixrrogorang Ringtails on Saturday, by 6 runs The
Onr Boys Club defeated the Staumoro C C. by 3 runs.
Scores: O B. C.C. 62 (Hand, 16; Stafford end Varlov,
12 each). Stanmore C C. 53 (Aitkt-n, 14; Searle, not
out, 13; Haliigan, 12) Tbe cricket match, New-
castle v. Ironclad, resulted in a win for the former by
77 mna......Knill scored 109 in the second innings of the
North Adelaide Club ngeinst Hindmarsh, on Saturday
Alexandria v. Herald Office. A.C.C., 73—Van
Heekeren 27. H O.C.C., 38 Clio v. Kent. Clio, 29—
Sweetman 11. Kent, 12. Sweetman, for the former,
took 5 wickets for 3 runs. In the second innings, the
Clio lost 9 wickets for 65 runs—Gribble 22 The 2nd
Carlton defeated the National Club on Saturday by 45
runs. Carlton, 100— Lynch 35, Beal 14, Hill 13 N.C.C.,
54—Collins 20, Dutton 18 A portrait of E. C. Lay.
cock appears in the October issue of the Sporting
Mirror The wvights for the Dunedin Cup (33 nomi-
nations) have been declared Mata and bo Loup head
the list with 9st. 81b. each. Lady Emma is weighted at
7st. 61b. In the Auckland Cup (29 nominations), Le
Loup is tep weight, 9.-t, 81b.; Grip, 9st. 61b.; and Foul
Play, 8st 12lb. Grip, 9it. 91b„ is at the top of the tree
in Wellington Cup, for which there arc also 29 nomina-
tions Mr. F. H. Digby has resigned the secretary-
ship of the Christchurch (N.Z.) Jockey Club on account
of failing health .The Pakuranga Hunt Club (Auck-
land, N.Z ), concluded the season with a steeplechase
meet. The principal event, Hunt Club Cup, wss
appropriated by Young Slcdmero The result of the
Melbourne Cup was known in Dunedin (N Z.) within
one hour and twenty-five miuutis after the race was
won The effect of the N.Z. Gaming and Lotteries
Bill will not improbably bo to paralyse racing alto-
f ether. The Lyttelton Times, describing the first
ay of the Metropolitan meeting, says a pall of dullness
hung over everything. Thero were no lottery tables,
the attendance was small, and even the bookmakers-
showed but little inclination to push business. Very
different this from two years ago At the Druids’
athletic sports, Dunedin (N.Z), on 9th November,
among those who competed were—W. Freeman (cham-
pion of Victoria), J. Oliver (winner of the Old Colle-
gians’ Cap, Melbourne, and other events), the Dunedin
champion, D. J. M’Donald, IV. J. Burk (champion long
distance runner of New Zealand), R. Burk, W, Fox,
Crofts, Hornridgo, and others.
• » •
On October 4, tho 1000 yards’ amateur swim-
ming championship of England was won by R. Todd in
ISmin. 51Jseo On October 8, at Glasgow, James
Amour defeated David Haddowiu a quoit match for the
championship of Great Britain and £100 At the in-
quest upon John Plant, who died from injuries received
in tho late prize-fight at Coventry (E ), a verdict of
manslaughter was returned against Arnold, his oppo-
nent A fifty-milo tricycle race, for tho championship
of' Scotland, on October 8, was won by J. H. Lain* in 5
hours 14 J minutes Tho 220 yards' amateur swimming
championship of England was won, on October 10, by
E. C. Danels in 5min. Idlsoa. Ho is also tbe winner of
the 500 yards’ amateur championship The following
is Peate’s average during the past English season:—44
innings, 1638 overs, 731 maidens. 2088 runs, 162 wickets,
12.144 average per wicket Xavier Semmelman, a
Bavarian, “ the strongest man in tho world,” now per-
forming in London, can lift with ono finger a black-
smith’s anvil weighing 5401b E. P. Weston, the
American pedestrian, has turned “temperance lecturer.”
He states that during the last fourteen j ears ho walked
56,000 miles, and his physical condition has been wonder-
fully improved by the incidental training At a
meeting, on October 20, of the Rugby Football Union
of England, Mr. Richard Arnold, of tho N.S. Wales
Wallaroo Club, was present, and spoke at great length
on the progress of football in the antipodes, and a hope
was expressed that the day was not far distant when
Australia and the mother country would meet in
friendly rivalry.
A plain financial statement—“ I’m hard np.”
882 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
Attendance at the Australian Museum during
the month of November, 1831:—Week days (22), 6675 ;
Sundays (4), 3752. Total, 10,427.
An artist and his girl parted for ever, tho other
day, becau ;e, whilt gazing upon his landscape, she
happened to state that it was multi-coloured.
The order from the Tasmanian Government for
a number of small field guns has arrived in England.
This was a judicious order, as the hilly nature of the
island precludes quick movements of artillery. There
is a good sprinkling of “local big guns” in Hobart,
but they are only to be heard at “raree shows,”
“Gubernatorial receptions,” “levees," “scientific
discussions on water storage,”—save the mark 1 —and
“ Bitch like.”
The little Mayor of Hobart was mnoh annoyed the
other week because he was not allowed to take the lead
in the movement for relieving the sufferers by tho reesnt
h r avy flood in Hobart. A private gentleman, seeing
the Corporation were head over ears in red-tapeism,
took the initiative and called a publio meeting; but
after an assertion of official dignity on one side, and
some gentlemanly coaxing on the other, the trouble
was smoothed down.
During’ the past few -weeks, tho conductors on
the Rand wick trams have noticed that their ticket ba> s
and “ billies ’’ have taken the opportunity of absenting
themselves without leave in the mom exlracrdin \ry
manner possible. A few days ago, however, one of the
victims happened to notice a lady humping rather a
large parcel across the park, and he gallantly offered to
give her a helping hand. He was a ttifl j surprised to
find his own bag and can in tho bundle—and <-o was the
lady, also, as she didn’t know how on earth the con-
cerns could over get there.
In San Francisco they have a Town Hall which
appears to ha the twin of the Sydney edifice. The
Newsletter says it is rumoured’ that “ Vanderbilt
is going io Europe shortly, to buy up a lot of ruins,
and that he will purchase Tintern Abbey, the Coliseum
at Rome, tho Leaning Tower of Pisa”, and tho San
Francisco New City Hall, and have them all set n» in
Central Park as a gift to the people of New York. * As
for as we are concerned, oar part in the transaction
need not cost Mr. Vanderbilt anything if he will only
consent to cart the tottering edifice away, and wo are
even willing bo throw in the elevator-boy as part of tho
institution.”
Nautical phenomenon! The barque Harriet
M'Gregor, from Port Louis to Hobart, experienced
fearful weather. The fierceness of the gale and the teas
prevented food being cooked for two days. The vessel
was only saved, so Captain Leslie firmly lelieves, by
his using oil to smooth the water, and prevent it break,
ing on hoard. Tho conrso adopted was saturating
swabs in oil every two hours, and casting them over the
sid js of the ship with weights attached to keep them
in position. The effect was truly marvellous, for
mountainous wave* would he seen approaching the little
barque, and were expected to completely envelop and
crush her, but as they met the oil floating round the
vessel they broke, leaving a heavy swell, from which
she suffered no harm. Every drop of oil on board was
used for the purpose, and it proved of inestimable
werth, “ Casting oil on troubled waters !'•
WOMAN ITEMS.
A young lady, Miss Percy, with a baby in her
arms, jumped from an upper storey of a burning house at
Auckland. Child killed; Miss Percy dangerously in-
jured.
The now Queen of ' pain is reported to be in an
interesting condition. An American reporter, on
receipt of the news, instantly left for Madrid to inter-
view her Majtsty.
A very skilful young lady of Armidale, in draw-
ing a bucket of water, fell into the well, and made the
desoont (50 feet) without any contact with Ihe sides.
She got wet and her hands were sore—nothing more.
He was in time to hoist her up.
£sThe other day, a Dunedin publican was fined
20s. - and costs under tho new N.Z. Licensing Act for
employing a barmaid after 11 pin. The N.S.W.
Government might take a hint from this, as in Sydney
barmaids and waiters frequently werk for twenty hours
or more at a stretch.
A romantic Maori suicide is reported. The beau-
tiful daughter of a chief desired to follow her lover to
Parihaka, whore, with other political prisoners, he was
detained. On being forbidden to do so by her father,
the disconso’ato girl threw herself over a cliff, at the
foot of which her mangled body was found by her
people.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Clerical hub-bub at Campbell town.
Mormon missionaries are swarming in Europe.
Mr. Uugh Duff, the late organist at St. Silas's
Church. Waterloo, has been appointed to St. Thomas - ”
North Shore.
Moody and Sanlrey visit Ireland. They go there
to wrestle with sin. They are bound to bo prosecuted fer
assaulting the landlords.
A branch of tho Salvation Army has been orga-
nised in Dunedin, N.Z., and every Sunday afternoon its
soldiers and soldieresses assemble for the purpose cf
saving sinners.
The conduct of some young ladies in a Campbell-
towa church on a recent occasion was designated by the
clergyman as “ a dishonour to God and a hindrance to
His worship.” The parson has now lost some of his
host customers.
A service in the Scotch National Church at
Carlisle was advertised lately with the annouueemeht,
“ A collection in gold and silver will be made at tho
close." There’s a delicate suggestiveness about this
that must command admiration.
An interesting choral service was held at Christ-
church, North Shore, last week. ’J he choristers of St
James’s, St. Mark’s, St. Thomas’s, end Christ Church’
assisted. The Revs. W. Hough, T. Kommis, J. C. Cor-
lette, T. Marriott, and Pastor Simmons took part in tl o
service.
On Thursday, tha 13th ultimo, a curious scene
was to be witnessed in Westminster Abbey (Ent-d.
B-iog the Feast of St. Edward tho Confessor, the
chapel where the remains of that king are deposited
is, on that anniversary, thrown open to the public; and
from 10 am. until late in the afternoon, numbers of
Roman Catholics, priests, laymen, and ladies, were to
he seen praying round tbe shrine of the saint. Some
had prayer-books, others rosaries in their hands; and
all were evidently most earnest in their devotions. It
was, to say the least of it, a singular sight to witness a
conple of hundred or so members of the Church of
Rome going through their silent devotions in a Prole*,
tant cathedral.
There has been considerable stir in Mary-
borough (Q.), on account of serious charges against tho
lata Bishop O Quinn and other Irish ecclesiastics hav-
iog been made, anonymously, to the Pope. The general
feeling, however, is with the clergy, and it is stated
that tho charges are not credited at Romo. Though
some deem it unnecessary to refute charges from an
anonymous source, a largo meeting of church members
was held, and a memorial was drawn up to the Pope
asking that the most rigorous scrutiny might bo instil
tnted into the whole affair. A peculiar feature is that
the charges wore made over eight years ago, and that
though the accused do not soam to have been called ou
for any defence, an idea prevails that the Holy See has,
m consequence, come to a decision to send no more
Irish bishops out to Australia. The idea is borne out
by the fact that all subsequent appointments have been
filled m accordance with that decision. A special
appeal on this point is made in tho memorial.
THE NUN.
If you become a nun, dear,
A friar I will be;
In any cell you run, dear.
Pray look behind for me.
The roses will torn pale, too;
The doves will labs the veil, too ;
The blind will seo the show—
What, you become a nun, my dear ?
believe it—no 1 .
At St Mark's Plower Service.
I love the (lowers—
la beinty gome, in plainno-s others cast.
Though all must bud, and bloom, and blight at lost •
Love’s happiest hoars
Are oft within tbeir radiant influence spent—
Their beauties bright sweet thoughts invito.
And banish discontent.
I love their breath—
Wherein, in life, all fragrance seeme combined.
Wherein, when faded, still is left behind.
E’en after death,
A perfume pure, that ago will not decay.
A memory ( ear, that lingers here.
And will not pass away.
I love their grace—
Their native grace, that shames all ariifleo ;
Tho golden rays and silver sprays both fondly kiss
Each upturned face.
That in its innocence no evil knows.
That speaks of love, in realms above.
Where all is calm repose.
I love their hnca
That gladdened Eden in the times long past.
And roseate glamours o’er our fnturo cast:
They will not lose
Tha snb'le charm that, haTowed them of yore.
Till rain and iay shall pa s away,
And earth shall be no more.
ARTHUR FRY.
Sydney, 15th November, 1831.


(BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CURED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CURED.
D
BUNKENNESS CURED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CURED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CURED.
B
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CURED.
D
BUNKENNESS CURED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
D
BUNKENNESS CUBED.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
B
OOK FREE.
ON, OR ADDRIiSS
S, FRESHMAN,
859, Q««rge-etreet,
Sydney,
GRAND
CHRISTMAS PRESENTATION.
THE LONDO* ABT SOCIETY
are offering the following
MAGNIFICENT FULL SUITE
OF
LADY 10R GENTLEMAN’S
GOLD JEWELLERY.
The small amount charged will barely cotot the expense
of advertising, registered carriage, and patent rights.
The following is a list of the CHRISTMAS GIFTS
offered to LADIES. One article only may be sent for;
but, to obviate the likelihood of damage in the Mail,
bag, it will be advisable to send for the entire quantity.
Lady’s Elegant Gold Brooch, set with
different stones £0
Gold Necklet 0
Lady’s Gold Bing 0
Earrings 0
Lady’s Gold Albert 0
Gold Locket 0
Bracelet 0
5 6
Total £1 13 3
Any of these articles may be sent for separately, but,
as before stated, it will be to the reader’s advantage to
secure the whole in one parcel.
THIS
GRAND CHRISTMAS PRESENTATION
will only be made to each lady reader of this paper who
cuts out the following Coupon and sends it to the London
Art Society, 191 William-street, Sydney, with the neces*
sary sum noted above, to defray all incidental charges.
LADY’S PEEMIUM COUPON
for
ONE PULL SUITE GOLD JEWELLERY.
On receipt of this Conpon, T, the undersigned,
will redeem it by sending Broocb, Necklet, Bing,
Earrings, Gold Albert, Locket, Bracelet, etc.,
upon receipt of £l l3s. 6d., required for advertising
and other expenses.
All Coupons must be out out of this paper and
sent to LONDON ABT SOCIETY, 191 William-
street, Sydney, within five (5) weeks from this
date.
(Signed)
J. H. WILSON.
Manager for Proprietors of
London Art Society
NOTE THESE INSTRUCTIONS.
No parcel or separate article will be forwarded unless
the following conditions are strictly complied with;
and the distribution will take place in rotation, as the
applications are received: — ' ?
Ist. Every address must be distinctly written,
2nd. Any single article or the whole parcel may be
applied for.
3rd. No order will be entertained after the expira-
tion of five (5) weeks after this date.
4th. Only Bank Drafts and Post Office Orders will be
received.
The LONDON ABT SOCIETY have also made
arrangements to present each GENTLEMAN reader
with the following suite of jewellery
Gold Scarf-pin £0 2 9
Set of Gold Studs 0 2 0
Set Gold Solitaires 0 2 6
Gold Albert 0 7 0
Gold Locket 0 3 9
Gold Bing 0 5 6
Total £1 3 6
For these articles out eat the fallowing COUPON,
and forward as directed
>/
Without these COUPONS no single article will be
sent under the ordinary retail p.iee of ONE GUINEA,
or the entire parcel under the ordinary retail price of
FIVE GUINEAS.
Ladies and Gentlemen sending for any parcel will also
receive one Gold Bing or Scarf-pin set with stones as an
additional premium; but in any ease 1,2, 3,4, 5, or 6 of
the articles may bo obtained upon forwarding the re-
quisite amount noted against each. In all coses, the
Conpon must accompany each application.
Families desirous of obtaining one or more parcels of
this Jewellery, can do so upon sending one or more of
the Coupons, i.e. one Coupon (or each parcel.
As theso Coupons will not again bo printed in this
paper, it ia advisable to at onoe cut them out, and send
them m for redemption, since all will be attended to in
rotation as received.
All letters must be addressed and remittances made
payable to
J. H. WILSON,
MANAGER FOE PROPRIETORS,
LONDON ART SOCIETY,
191 WILLIAM-STREET, SYDNEY.
GENTLEMAN’S PREMIUM COUPON
FOB ONE POLL
SUITE OF JEWELLERY,
On receipt of this COUPON, I, the
undersigned, will redeem it by sending
Scarf Pins, Gold Studs, Solitaires, Alberts,
Lockets, and Rings, upon receipt of £1
3s. 6d., required for Advertising and other
expenses.
AU COUPONS must bo out out of this
paper and sent to
LONDON ART SOCIETY,
191, William-street, Sydney,
within five weeks from this date.
(Signed)
J. H. WILSON,
Manager for Proprietors of
London Art Society.
N.B,—-All communications must he sent through the
Post.
ÜBURN DOWNS ESTATE,
Great clearance sale, without
RESERVE.
SATURDAY, 17th DECEMBER, ON THE
GROUND
E
IVERY ALLOTMENT MUST BE SOLD.
Title, torrens*. terms liberal,
AS BEFORE,
Batt. rodd, and purves,
AUCTIONEERS.
CASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
Claret
Hermitage ..
Shiraz
Burgundy ..
Sweet Shiraz
Reisling
Hock
Madeira
Bonffler’s Pinean..
COLONIAL WINE.
BED.
per doz.
9a Od
10a Od
Ha Od
12a 6d
13a Od
per doz.
J. T. Fallon’s Port 25s Od
Adelaide Qrenache
(rich Burgundy
Adelaide Port ...
30s Od
80s Od
WHITE.
9a Od
10a Od
11s Od
15a Od
Brown Muscat ...
Muscat, vintage ’75
Adelaide Tokay ...
15a Od
21s Od
30a Od
Tokay, vintage ’73 30a •Od
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 21s to 36a Od I Good Sherry 21s to 38s Od
Champagne from... 60a 011 French Clarctfrom 25a Od
SPIRITS.
Imperial Scotch
Case
Hennesay’s
Brandy ... ...
Hennessy’s •**
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highd. Whisky..
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Vaughan Jones'
U gquebaugh
Scotch Whisky
Imperial • Scotch
Whisky
59s Od
71s Od
45s Od
45a Od
46a Od
42a Od
38a 6d
40s Od
Bull Dog Ale, qta.
Bull Dog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qta...
„ „ pints
„ Stout, qts.
~ „ pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
Boar’s Hoad Stout,
pints ... ... ...
Biss’s Ale, by Hall,
quarts
ditto
Imperial Scotch
Whisky
Burke’s ••• Irish
Whisky • ... ...
D’Arcy’s Irish
Whisky
Rum, Red Heart...
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
size)
Gin, Key, Casa of
15 Bottles (med.
Wolfe’s Schnapps
ALES AND STOUTS.
42s Od
44s Od
40s Od
38s 6d
, 48s Od
52a Od
46s Od
43s 0d
44s Od
11s Od
8s Od
lls Od
8s 0a
10s Od
7s Od
10s 01
7s 01
10s 6d
Bass’s Ale, by Hall,
pints
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts
Pig Brand Stout,
pints
Boar’s Hefid Ale,
quarts ... ’.
Boar’s Head Ale,
pints
Hellea Hannover
Lager Bier, qts.
Kaiser do. qts.
7s 6d
10s 6d
7s 6d
10s Od
7s Od
He 6d
12s 6d
Lager Bier, 4 dozen in case. Bull Dog Ale, quarts,
1 dozen in a cask ; pints, 8 dozen. Fester's Ale, quarts,
! dozen; pints, 6 dozen in case. Boar’s Hand Stout,
marts, 4 dozen in cask; pints, 7 dozen. Urand
■Stout, quarts, 4dozen in case; pints, 7dozen. Foster’s
Stout, quarts, 6 dozen. Boar’s Head Ale, 4 dozen quarts
n case; 7 doz pints.
ear Country Orders for Alee and Stouts must be for a
laak or Case of one sort, otherwise 6d. per dozen extra
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
lent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address In
awn, or to the Wharves or Redfern Railway Station.
Perms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH & CO..
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
D
AVID M ‘ C A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment,
'o his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, Hie
Excellency the Right Hou. the Earl of Belmore,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, K.C.M.G.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftua,
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
and.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles
Lgricultnral Exhibition, 1868, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
F.T.W
STEREOTYPE
AMD
ruuiiuijf
- and
PRINTERS'
* WAREHOUSE, j
'ten St.. Hunter Si., j
Hat
I-TS ST7.SST. IiZLSCUSSE. !
T
HE Most PERFECT-PITTING GARMENTS
SMITH ahd MANNELL’S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
Shirt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN’S MERCERS,
298 George Street, Stdnbt
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 29th November, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lesse<
execute and take delivery of the undermentiom
Mineral Leases within thirty days from this date, th«
will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK,
No. 1161; John Davidson; Portion No. 432; Couni
of Boiler, parish of Ruby; 20a.; Application N
Wilsou’s Downfall 27.
No. 1168; E. Whiting and another; Portion No. 501
Counties of Gough and Hardinge, parishes of Clive ar
Swinton; 20a.; Application No. Tingha 433.
No. 1171; John M’Kenzie and others; Portion N
224; County of Gough, parish of Clive; 20a.; Applic
tion No. 415.
No. 1174; Richard Uren Thomas; Portion No. 56(
County of Gough, parish of Herbert; 20a.; Applicatic
WANTED, an ENGRAVER on WOOD
Apply, K, and F. W. MASON, 124 Elizabeth-
utreet*
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
"Lantern” (Albert Goldfield): Glad to bear
from yon as chance offers " We don’t com-
-JuJLrl “T HQ ” : Thanks “Whipstick ; Bight
vou are “ Rising Young Actor,’’ &c.: The story is as
old as the hills “Lyuceus”: Most acceptable.
ft w eek “ F J.M.” : A most interesting para-
aranh “ Pontsnble": Thanks “Q” (Melbourne :
Write aeain •• Wallaby” (Blackoll): Your very wol-
co£e letter arrived late. Will attend to it next week.
Write again Fluta” (Balmain): Very pretty verse.
But please send your name so a guarantee of good faith.
tV T o S.”: You should have put a joke into the par.,
which, as it stands, is of no general interest .....
• F T W ” • Your communications, so far, are not at all
adapted to our journal. Try the which
room^thif/week” and° subject scarcely of sufficient
ren™aftntere\t:..“"B.’’ (Wga): Being hard up for
space, we hold over your excellent verses A.M.H. :
We shall be glad to receive from you something ongi-
nil “J F.”i Thanks. Held over Bathurst :
Received. ’ Your verse is hardly up to our mark
..o ... The trouble we’re in about your piece, “Iho
Amateur Poet,’’ arises from the difficulty we experience
in deciding whether its indifferent poetry or bad,
m-ose What metre are the stanzas ? Pentameters,
iiovninaters or what ? We’ve examined’em very closely,
'S. tell They’ve got more feet than a Sunday school
falofUtloboys,Adit’s well that you haven’t to buy
for them “H.A.P.”: Launceston, your packet
ornointos personalities is to hand. Why. didn’t you
send°it*too tir Melbourne “ imitator ?’’ It is nearer to
vou geographically, intellectually, and in sentiment and
Hfcerary taste than wo are. We don’t know who the
the Fancy Ball, “ with the green coat and
billycock hat” was, nor will our editorial bosom suffer
one pang of disappointed curiosity if we never find ont.
S” (Newtown): Wo are sorry to see by your
poetry that you are not well. These lines attest to
your severe indisposition;
“ It may exliist (sic) here in a mare secret form.
Whore (sic) corruption and vice infect the whole nation.
Our Ammerican( tc) eoz thmks itn^egradation.
Sir Harry’s unhappy, the rest they look blue, ...
Sir John he has left them, that cunning old rue (stc).
You are like the man who spoke Bottom’s prologue—
‘■You know not the stop.” When you have mastered
the art of spelling, if we are still in the land of the
living, communicate with ns again. There is some
good* stuff in yon, we believe; but at the present
time a mischievous muao appears to be turning
the handle of the sausage-machine the wrong way......
••Syntax”- In your communication there is such a
surprising lack of yonr nom dc plums that we cannot
reX make out what you are aiming at. Besides, who
in thunder cares about whether they slaughter on
Saturday night in Kamgeroo or whether they don t.
Send ua something else—a dissertation on oysters, or
some verses on your last disagreement with the police....
it Stockwhip” (Gondobolin): Nothing in either. If
there is. it is too deep for ns. Send us the translation of
H « fli-fit item •• T.M H.”: Send us some more of
your poetry quick. For you will die soon. We have a
new Wnnderbuss. and want to hear from you before it
I-™ off “Gaiety”: Received “Anchor”: Such
things are of interest to the Hpbald only. Sand ns
lively “Tsngent" : Very good indeed,
wnfdres* it up S.S.Y. (Petersham): Very good.
Next week“ Novice”: Thanks. We are sorry we
Sot this week find room for all your matte* •
hi Thanks. Received Another Victim .
WeTl get things altered....“ A Subscriber : No®? 8 ,
doings don’t interest us. Send such things to our Mel-
libel “Chow Chow”: Yon must please
fSh names in all such cases; we cannot publish
•• Venus ** • Your sarcasm on the brace of
Ste may’ be deserved, but it would hardly be safe for
uetoinsert it “ W.B.S.’’ (Roma)
of very limited interest “ Amateur (Kiama). Keep
on sending . “G. Brown”: Thanks, we put
it in the backet "W.T.”: We had to make
it brief “ James Johnson : We can t insert
few lines this week, but we U try and get
them in about the beginning of next winter, if the
“tall graceful girl” doesn’t mind waiting. You ask
why w«e you not allowed the pleasure of speaking to
he/? Well, we can’t be certain, but it was moat likely
because she knows you * Eereo slf you 11 fo'ffw®
us for altering your blank verse into rhyme, we will do
it Certainly send us more ; we discern ideas
“John Allison»: Such cases arc common m every
ruraJii“siSttwa
Squib not suitable: try your own local Wer3
“Traveller’’ : Under notice “A.M.H. : Wed
rather have original matter “ Guppy : Next week
•< d.D.” : Kindly call at your convemouce.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Beefera on the Palmer have how a hard time.
No feed for their horses, and no suitable timber for
shafts or machinery Mr. H. K. Peard, formerly of
Albnry, bat latterly engraved in eane for the
llichmond Company, Mackay district, died recently
from the bite of a black snake...... . Charters, defaulting
secretary of the Christchurch building society, has
been committed for trial on six charges. Ho says
other people received the benefit from his fraud......
J. W. Blarney, the defaulting legal manager, who has
iusb disappeared from Ballarat, was paying interest at
the rate of £9los. per week »n £MO borrowed.... ..Somo
splendid country has been taken up by several Cook-
town men between the North Kennedy and the Nor-
manhy, near the junction of the, Laura......M'‘Shea and
Co prospectors, have returned to Cooktown. They
found little gold in the M'lvor country, and but tew
indications of other metals, but Mr. M’Shea declares
the land on both sides the best he has seen in the
North The blacks are numerous and daring, and
speared two of the party’s horses......A. Bourke black-
fellow has buried the hatchet —in the hpad of another
darkey. Gin, rum, coroner A beggar named G ild-
smith was found dead in a tent at Temora. He had
been kept alive by charity. Among his old clothes,
after his death, was found £3OO Dr. Scott, of Hamil-
ton (Vic), the other day removed from the hip of a
woman a huge fibrous tumour, weighing 91bs.,
and of ten years growth Five bales of op-
possum skins, numbering 12,000, were recently
shipped from the Clarence to Sydney. Tho Grafton
railway movement is dead......A swallow was found
captured in a spider’s web at Rockhampton recently....
117 tons from South New Zealand, Oympie, gave 7700 z.,
valued at £2670 The new electric light at South
Head equals the brilliancy of 12,000,000 candles
N S.W. revenue for 1882 estimated at 6} millions
The municipal property of N.S.W. estimated at
£50,000,000 John Gordon has been committed at
Dunedin for fraudulent insolvency. Just before filing
he had £B2O in a stocking, which he gave to a publican.
Then ho got drunk, when it was found he had £206 in
his possession The loss of the N.Z. barque Glimpse
is said to point the necessity for a-colonial Plimsoll
8000 acres of Waimato Plains land will be auctioned by
the N.Z. Government tho week before Christmas The
squatters on the Macquarie and Bogan have adopted a
novel method of exterminating kangaroos—starving
them to death. This is, however, a little rough on tho
jam bucks Tho Mcssgiel Woollen Factory (Otago,
N.Z ) balance-sheet shows a profit for the year of £6930
and a dividend of 10 per cent, carrying forward £4lOO.
...Splendid gold specimens from Tippett’s reef, Man-
garlowe River, exhibited at Braidwood Seven trucks
laden with partly frozen meat, to complete the cargo of
thy Cuzco, left the Orange meat works on tho sth
December
* • *
The following are the weights of the accoutre-
ments carried by the soldiers of different nations .
Swiss, 4811 b ; Austrian, 571 b. ; Gorman, 4711 b. ;
English and xtaliaa, 61|ft.; French, 661 b.; Russian,
70|ib The fees charged by tho six doctors who
attended President Garfield (and utterly blundered)
amount in tbe aggregate to £17.520. Ga> field’s illness
lasted Inst 42 days The Great Eastern was recently
. bought at auction for £30,000 The City of Rome, just
launched, is said to be the second largest vessel afloat.
She Is of tho Inman line of mail-boats, 550 feet long,
55 feet wide, 40 fact deep, and her engines can work np to
10,000 horse-power. Her fittings are the perfection of
luxuriouSnesa, and she is expected to go faster than any
vessel on the Atlantic, which means that she will be the
fastest vessel in tho world Hawarden Castlej tho
residence of Mr. Gladstone, is strongly guarded by
police


Business Anaoun
W flt USE INFERIOR SI
The following list of Exhibition
attestation of the superiority of
manufactured by
JONAS SHOOK a
MELTHAM Mil
near Huddersfield,;
THE ONLY PRIZE
LONDON EXHIBIT]
THE ONLY FIRST-CLASS ;
PARIS EXHIBITIO
PRIZE MEDA
LONDON EXHIBITI
GOLD MEDA
PARIS EXHIBITIO
THH ONLY DIPLOMA C
VIENNA, 187:
m MEDAL AND AY
** PHILADELPH]
GOLD MEDA
SOUTH AFRICA
GOLD MEDA
PARIS EXHIBITIO
ONLY SPECIAL PIES
SYDNEY, 189
Ask for BROOK'S COTTON f
Patent GlacA Soft Cotton—Si
Qlacd, in all colours.
All orders and correspondence
New Zealand should now bo add
house. Wynyard-lane, Sydney, Ne
"OURE CHINE
Messes. QUONG TA
Have much pleasure in announ
opened at
300 GEORGE STREET
{Opposite the Freno:
AN AGENCY POE TH]
LOON SHAU
Messrs. QUONG TART and Co
public approval Silks and General
N.B.—Mr. QUONG TART has
a visit to China, where he in pers<
mentioned Teas, so that their pur:
INSPECTION IN\
300 GEORGE STREET-SHOW
Near Huuter-sti
ONLY PRIZE
GIVI V V- , - BA K ING P
FOR KiRSTDEGRE
SolD£ [£Rr WHERE IN PP
, .GR "SQUARE T
MANUFACTORY • yUE
s? : S8
N EW D A
AWARDED the
for Sewing hi
ONLY FIRST
MEDAL, at
1881.
FIRST and SP
Show, 1877, 11
Singleton, W
ONLY First and
Wo_ other SEV
Special Prize at
to the contrary n
B. O.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER TH]
The UNIVT R S A I £ r i!ii ift
Tailors, Drapers, &o.
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, OEOEGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LAEGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONADJjJfi
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO OEDEE.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 13s 6d.
[ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHEUNK
AND A PEEPECT PIT GUAEANTEED.
H
A V E YOU
TO
R. MORPH
233 Pitt Stre
LISE’S
PAPER CUT
All communications to bo a
“ ELISE,"
484 GEORGE STI
DOLLS WARE HOI
Orders for Patterns cannot be e
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns
style, cut, and finish, being modelled
Fashions, and are always sent pei
receipt of stamps or money order.
KING STREET
I* I (two doors from G«
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke--
MADAME DEMOREST’S
AMERICAN CUT PAPER PA 1
styles erery mail from Paris and Ne l
Full directions and illustrations wit
MADAME DEMOREST’S public)
fashions. 500 Plates, Is. } What to i
Magazine, Is. Od.; Catalogues, gratii
MISS LOUISA H.
MADAM
Paper Patt
Mantles, e
sizes for
ren funds
turns and •
ing up. S
ing from
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by pc
annum, post free. Catalogue
Patterns sent to any part of the
of price and measure. Postage £
Address:
MADAME WEI
161 King-street, Sydi
Y
m
hel
m
y
■ ■
BRASSFINISHEES, COPPERSMITHS,
Plumbers and Gasfitters,
BLACKSMITHS.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
9 Macquarie Place,
if'.SYDNEY.
f This is tho most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Com
simple, clean, and durable, and can bo made by any intelligent lad wit
This GAS is much c'oanor and more brilliant than cool gas, and,
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity
in some cases almost nil. Severn pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS ia used fm
THE "PRODUCER”
EEADICATES SCUEF and DANDEUPP,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with,
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BAREOW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.
“ A great scientific discovery.”—
Vide Lancet.
Soft, Luxnriant, and Flowing TRESSES
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one
falling off
Diseases is
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
RITT STREET.
single application stops the Hair
m all oases of Febrile and other
DRUNKENNESS <
Dr. Xjeslie e. Kw
DOUBLE CHLORIDE OI
A TESTED AND INFAZLIB
FIFTY-PA ftF PAnir WPi'r'TAT
ATTOTmitriw .
B UEKE, COULSON, & LEEDS,
AUCTIONEEES, WOOLBEOKEES,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENEEAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY
And OEANGE. s
SHERIDAN & FULLPOED,
STOCK AND SHAEE BEOKEES,
91 PITT-STEEET,
SYDNEY.
Henry A. Sheridan, formerly Manager.* of the; Com-
mereial Bank, Maitland.
Jakes Puixford, of West Maitland.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENQINEEE & lEONEOUNDEE.
MINING, TEAM, and BAIL WAY EOLLING STOCK
FIEE GIEDEES,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
'BOXES,
Sco., See.
Workaj SUSSEX STEEET, & GLEBE POUNDEY.
Office and SHOW BOOMS, 220 PITT STEEET.
THE " EENEITH AEQUS " will appear on
7th JANUARY, W. WEBB, Proprietor. °
AND
buhglae
PEOOP
SAFES
AND
DOOES


£IL IFPOED, L 0 V I
TEA IMPOETEE
EASTEEN AND COM 4
MEECHANTS,
Deceive regular consignments
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES —Indian Prize
PEESEEVES—Indian Pri:
COFFEE —Plantation No.
Do. „ Peab
Do. „ Nos.
ElCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pea
SAGO
PEPPEE—White and Bla<
OFFICES 79 YOEK i
AND AT
EDWAED STEEET, BI
JOHN D
IMPOETEE OP
Plumbers* and Engineers’ Braeswi
Qosflttings, Globes, Electric I
Butchers’ Brine Pa
Iron, Brass, Copper,
- and Lead Pipe, &<
119 LIVEEPOOL STEEET,
I.L
16
ECONOMY IN CLOT
—o—
SAVE 20 PEE CENT. BY
YOUE GOODS PEOY
DIEECT IMPOETI
THE PEOPLE’S T
PATTEENS
and
GUIDE TO BELF-MEA!
sent to any part of the c
tr The particular attention ol
dents is requested to thii
Any stylo of Garment made tx
SUMMEEPIELD
GUIDE TO SELE-MEASX
THE LEADINS HOUSE IN THE IMPLEMENT &
Sole Agents for the W. A. WOODS’ STRING-BIN
THE WOODS
String-binder
is quita SELF-
ACTING. A boy
w ' work the
WOODS* MA-
CHINE SUC-
CESSFULLY.
r ¥tkvn a \.
ZAi
W. A. WOODS’ 1881 STRING
THE WOODS IS A PROVED SUCCESS,. NOT
Farmers should write to ns for all the IMPLEMENTS, MACHINES
Goods, and the Largest Stock in the Colony.
MARTIN and PAIN, 389 GEORGE
1
■i
‘W jiSra tM'
fc*2ft. .iAA-JaRLi
ml.
\y
S&&K3
xmiiv
i _■_
mHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A RE.
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE.
C. E. WIGZELL,
Oxford-street,
SYDNEY- -
*0
SpS^...
And On
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
rou
HERMITAGE.
. * i
VIN ORDINAIRE
8/6
PEE GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- per t
SHIRAZ ■) Fmity
MADEIRA ) Wines S ‘‘ ”
BURGUNDY 1 Dry 1 91/
RIESLING j Wines } ”
G. H. STEPHEN & C(
Wine Growers and Merck
13 Bridge Street
MOST PLEA!
WANTED TO B
that the best cleans
TANT and Deodoriser for t
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS Dig
can be found by i
PANTEB AND PARRY'S I
OP SOAP,
which not only contains tl
dients for the greatest clea
ever yet introduced to th
composed in its manufactm
best disinfectants.
(MADE PUR ELY FROM
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in al
throughout the globe. Coml
it is free from all injurioi
pleasing smell, will not inju
cate hands, is the greatcs’
labour, rendering any articl
with of the purest whiten
marvellous short space of tii
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot be surpassed 1
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crock
Paint, Floor
and every Household
DIRECTIONS for which
EACH PACKET, which i
from all Grocers and Store
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORG!
SYD N E
IN THE WO
Dispense Prescriptions chea
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English pi
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spon
ALL KINDS OP DRUGGISTS’
Send for a Price List. Countr;
| ally attended to. Don’t forgei
You cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New I
W. KER
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOU
CC l GEOEGE STEEE r
Opposite St. Andrew’s
Medals of every description, Mas
sentation Trowels designed
Premises,
DIAMOND SET
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, froi
STREET S
