

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7—No. 86.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1881.
Price—3d.
§uUeiiu.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1881.
A Radical Movement.
Overlooking the ancient capital of Scotland and
the Royal Palace of Holyrood there is a road
which sweeps along the base of a precipice. This
is called the Radical Road, and thirty years ago
nurses used to shock the sensibilities of children
by explaining that the road was constructed by
wicked men, condemned to such labour in conse-
quence of their villainy in being Radicals. Thirty
years ago, a man might as well confess himself a
scoundrel as a Radical. When John Bright first
entered the field of politics he was subjected to a
torrent of abuse, sarcasm, scorn, and social con-
tempt, which has not been exceeded by anything
recently levelled at Parnell, the Land-Leaguer,
Beadlatjgh, the Atheist, or Chamberlain, the
Radical. Since the making of the Radical Road,
and the first appearance of John Bright in the
field of politics, the weight of public opinion has
materially shifted its centre of gravity. The
Radicals are no longer regarded as despicable
criminals, to be simply collared and cuffed, and
sentenced to hard labour. They have gained
headway to such considerable extent that they
occupy the more respectable position of social
rebels, too powerful to be outlawed, and who must
be treated as legitimate combatants.
# # *
Modern Radicalism has advanced since the
Declaration of American Independence embodied
the formula that all men are born free and equal.
The Radical of the present day recognizes the
fact that nature creates men in different moulds
and of diverse capacities. Its contention is, that
by human artifices the natural inequalities are
deranged and reversed, and that it has been made
impossible for men to fall into their appropriate
positions. Radicalism is a revolt not against
natural gradings but against artificial distinctions.
It combats arrangements which enable one man or
one class to monopolize to his own enjoyment
more than his proper share of the earth that all
live upon. It revolts against the supremacy of
“the tenth transmitter of a foolish face.” It
refuses to believe in the divinely given right of
some to revel in luxury wrung from the misery
and want of others. It denies the rights of
property when these are interpreted to mean the
right of the idle to appropriate the fruits of the
toil of the industrious.
* # *
The subject has been complicated by many side
issues, clouded by interests, passions, and senti-
ments, and obscured by merely local grievances.
Thus, the Irish Land-Leaguer is only a Radical by
instinct and chance. Consciously, he is not a
Radical at all. The philosophy of Radicalism is
entirely outside his ken. Yet, in agitating fora
re-adjustment of the relations between landlord
and tenant, he practically raises a Radical plea.
The Irish peasant conceives himeelf to be moving
in a national and selfish cause only. In the land-
lord he sees personified, not so much the embodi-
ment of a vicious economic principle, as of a
foreign oppression. The organs of the propertied
classes have made great efforts to have this mis-
take shared by the masses in England and Scot-
land. The question has been constantly treated
and represented as a national, and even as a re-
ligious one. The Land League has been depicted
as a modern continuation of former Irish revolts
and rebellions. The agrarian aspect has been, as
far as possible, kept out of view, and the agitation
referred to as one of Irishman against Briton—of
Catholic against Protestant.
* * #
It appears, however, that the farming classes
in England and Scotland cannot be hoodwinked.
The schoolmaster has not been abroad, during the
last half-century, in vain. The diffusion of pub-
lications during the past few years, which opened
their pages to essays on social and economical
problems—-treating these from every point of view
—has dissipated a multitude of misconceptions,
and has, in particular, relieved the minds of decent,
sober men of the idea that to think otherwise than
as their social superiors liked them to think, is a
sort of debasement and flying in the face of Provi-
dence. The Irish Land League has given birth to
an offspring which will exceed its parent in stature
and power. A Land League among the tenant-
farmers of England and Scotland means ultimate
revolution—a peaceful revolution, perhaps, but
none the less a radical one. It would probably
be a mistake to attach very great present import-
ance to the inception of this British League. At
the outset, it is scarcely likely to be very influen-
tial. The majority of the substantial farmers
will scarcely throw themselves into the movement
without weighing the probabilities of success and
the immediate consequences to themselves. But
the very nature of the objects of the League provide
a guarantee that its development will be progres-
sive. No tenant-farmer can feel repugnance to an
organization whose aim is to effect an improve-
ment in his condition. Many will give countenance
and pecuniary help at first under the rose, until,
strengthened by this very help, the League becomes
powerful enough to be openly joined.
# # #
The ultimate consequences of the movement for
an agrarian change, cannot, perhaps, be entirely
foreseen. The first obvious consequence would
be, of course, the disappearance of the order of
territorial magnates. The produce of the soil
would be apportioned among those who till it.
But it is questionable whether this could be the
end. The titled hereditary legislators of the
House of Lords are rooted on the soil. The in-
comes whichjenable them to maintain their dignity,
and to perpetuate their honours in hereditary
succession, would disappear, or, at least, dwindle,
were a radical alteration effected, such as the
Land League would aim at bringing about. Pos-
session of the land underlies the principles of
heredity and primogeniture, and without heredity
and primogeniture there could be no House of
Lords, as it now exists.
# * #
It has to be noted, also, that although the
tenant farmer would probably be content to stay
his h&nd when he had succeeded in re-modelling
the relations between landlord and tenant, it will
be requisite for him, in order to attain his aim, to
find allies in the political campaigns which would
have to be gone through before he could win the
day. These allies would have objects of their
own, somewhat on the same plane as the tenants’,
but not identical. There would have to be mutual
co-operation. The agrarian reformer, when accept-
ing support from the philosophical Radical, would
have to return a quid pro quo, and thus would
insensibly drift into adopting Radicalism, in all its
developments. This is the real danger to the
State : that men should, without the guidance of
intelligence, and only urged by selfish aims, lend
force to movements of which they had not pro-
perly calculated the direction, nor really under-
stood the legitimate limits.
Sir George Grey, K.C.B.
Among all Australian statesmen, Sir George
Grey is probably the most distinguished. Of
gentle lineage, and having held high position in
the Imperial service, he is yet a democrat, and a
sympathiser with popular ideas. It has been a
common thing enough to see underbred men find
a vent for their resentment against the assump-
tion of social superiority on the part of others, by
assuming the role of radicals. But such persons
too often mistake mortification and jealousy for
political principle, and, unluckily, obtain credit
from the public for public virtue, whereas they
are only actuated by personal spleen or class
affinities. Such individuals—once they have, by
the exercise of their natural abilities, climbed to
power or attained to affluence —frequently develop
in an exaggerated degree the despotic tendencies
and monopolist avidity which they commenced by
condemning. Having no real principle, they make
adroit use of every opportunity to adjust their at-
titude to the current of the hour, and are by turns
the tools of monopolists and the slaves of mobs.
Prom the ruck of such colonial politicians Sir
George Grey stands out in distinct relief. His
ideas have, throughout his career dominated his
interests—not his interests his ideas. Sir George
is the posthumous son of Colonel Grey, who was
killed at the siege of Badajos, in 1812. He was
educated at the Royal Military College, at Sand-
hurst, and received his first commission in the
Royal Engineers in 1829. In 1837, he retired with
the rank of Captain, for the purpose of heading an
exploration of Western Australia. Three years
were spent by Captain Grey in that colony, where
he married. The results of his exploration were
published in his “ Journal of Discovery,” which
appeared in 1841. In the same year, Lord John
Russell, then Secretary of State for the Colonies,
appointed Captain Grey Governor of South Aus-
tralia, where he energetically strove to place the
finances on a sound basis, and to give an impulse
to settlement of the interior. Four years later,
the young Governor was transferred to New Zea-
land, where the Maoris were warring against the
colonists and straining their powers of resistance
to the utmost. The policy of the new Governor
detached some tribes from the confederated
native opponents of the settlers, and, after
about a year, the hostile remnant was forced
into quietude—a result to which the co-opera-
tion of Wiremu Kingi, a chief whom the
Governor had won over, materially contributed.
Hostilities having ceased, immigration set in at a
great rate, and the colony rapidly acquired import-
ance. In 1848, the rank of K.C.B. was conferred
on Captain Grey, and he was made a D.C.L. of
Oxford the same year. An elective Legislature
was, in compliance with his advice to the Colonial
Office, created in 1852, and the system of Provin-
cial Government established. This was at the
time rendered preferable, on account of the diffi-
culties in the way of communication between
different provinces. But, even now that railways
and steam communication, as well as the pacifica-
tion of the natives, have removed the reasons for
such separate legislatures, Sir George Grey retains
his preference for that system, which has the
recommendation of being on lines similar to the
federal union of States in America. The reputa-
tion and influence of Sir George Grey were at this
time at their climax. The Colonial Office regarded
him as almost an infallible authority on all matters
affecting the settlement of new communities and
dealings with aboriginal races. In consequence of
this estimation of the genius of “ The Great Pro-
consul,” Sir George Grey was, in 1854, transferred
to the Cape of Good Hope, when war between the
colonists and the natives had become almost chronic
—and the Dutch Boers were even then restive
under British rule. Here, Sir George Grey added
to his reputation, and was successful in allaying
troubles; so that when, in 1861, the Maories again
took up arms in N.Z., the Imperial Government
lost no time in once more transferring their most
trusted servant to the scene of trouble. It was
then that the warped fibre in Sir George Grey’s
character became apparent. Whether bred by
success, or merely the development of an innate
quality, a degree of positiveness now made itself
apparent,_ and interfered with the Governor’s re-
lations with other responsible officers. This war
lasted several years, and required 10,000 British
troops at one time to carry it on. During its con-
tinuance the Governor was constantly at variance
with the military authorities, Generals Cameron
and Chute, with his Ministers, and even with the
British Ministry. At the conclusion of his tejm
of office, in 1868, Sir George proceeded to England
with the object of justifying his proceedings, but
the unbending and uncompromising attitude and
tone he maintained only served to give deeper
umbrage to the Colonial Office, and entirely put an
end to his prospects of further official employment.
After vainly attempting to find a seat in the House
of Commons, Sir George returned to New Zealand,
and took up his residence at Kawau, a beautiful
island which he had acquired, and where
he had built a handsome mansion. Here he
resided for several years, occupied in studious
pursuits, but in 1875 he accepted the position
of Superintendent of the Province of Auckland,
and represented the city in the general Legis-
lature. Once committed to a political career, Sir
George rapidly assumed a prominent position, and
became leader of the Opposition to the party and
policy of Mr. (afterwards Sir) Julius Vogel. That
Premier managed to "carry the abolition of the
provincial system, but in 1877 Sir George Grey
secured a majority, and displaced the lieutenant
and successor of his rival. The Government he
formed represented Liberal ideas, including the
principles (so fiercely contested, at a later date, in
Victoria) of a land and property tax, to balance a
reduction in Customs duties upon articles of
general consumption. In office. Sir George con-
ducted administration in a somewhat high-handed
fashion. In 1879 a general election went against
him, and he has since remained somewhat in the
shade—until recently, when he has again come to
the front, and rallied a party around him. His
re-assumption of the Premiership of New Zcalan
appears now only a question of a little time.
SIR GEORGE GREY, K.C.B.


THE GENUINE AMERICAN
HOP BITTERSI
Manufactured by the
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO. OP
ROCHESTER, N.T., U.S.A.
are a
MEDICINE, NOT A DRINK.
The above Company are well-known as being the
originators of the
HOP BITTERS PRIZE,
The great boat race rowed on the Thames, and so suc-
cessfully carried off by the
GALLANT LAYOOCK, of AUSTRALIA.
HOP BITTERS
are the
PUREST, BEST, AND CHEAPEST MEDICINE
EVER MADE.
They are compounded from
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRAKE (Podophyllin),
AND DANDELION,
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned, and Valuable
Medicines in the World, and in addition contain all
the best and most effective curative properties of
all other Bitters, being the greatest BLOOD PURI-
FIER and life and health restoring agent on earth.
RKMBMBEB THIS I IP YOU ARE SICK,
HOF BITTERS
will surely aid nature in making yon well again >
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a resident of a mias-
matic district, barricade your system against the
scourge of all, countries—malarial, epidemic, bilious,
and intermittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are suffering
from any other of the numerous diseases of the
stomach or bowels, it is your own fault if you re-
main ill, for HOP BITTERS are a sovereign
remedy in all such complaints.
If you are wasting away with any form of Kidney
disease, stop tempting Death this moment, and
turn for a cure to HOP BITTERS
If you are sick with that terrible sickness Her-
vousness, you will find a “ Balm in Qilead “ in the
use of HOP BITTERS.
In short, they cure ALL diseases of the Stomach,
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not cure or help, or
for anything impure or injurious found in them.
That poor, bedridden, invalid wife, sister, mother,
or daughter, can be made the picture of health by
a few bottles of Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
WILL U LET THEM SUPPER!
CLEANSE, UR AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or suffering.
Large square panelled amber colour bottles. White
label with green Hop cluster one side, yellow on the
other.
Price fis. No other form, size, or price is genuine.
American Hop Bitters Mfg. Co., Rochester, N.T., U.S.A.
To be obtained at all Chemists and Druggists.
MONTEFIORE, STUART. & CO.,
S 6 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
o
P. GREGORY & CO.,
TOBACCO MANUFACTURERS,
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.,
have appointed ns their
SOLE AGENTS
for the Safe of their TOBACCOS in Australasia.
We invite particular attention to our
NEW IMPORTATIONS, JUST ARRIVED,
of
SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOBACCOS,
bearing our Brands,
“ORIENT" and “SOUTHERN CROSS.”
These TOBACCOS are made to our own order, selected
from the
CHOICEST VIRGINIA LEAP,
and for delicacy of flavour are unequalled by any
Tobaccos ever imported into these Colonies.
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
■gENJAMI N BROOKE S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard house-
hold article in America and England.
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitchen Utens
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
y
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Fire
Irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Faint, Marble Floors and Mantles,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP.
and it is cheap, effective, and a great saving of time
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUART & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,.
Mrs. Wailes, of Woollahra, mother of the young
lady who died of small-pox last week, died on Tuesday
morning, of suppressed variola, and was buried in the
local cemetery by the disinfecting brigade.
American Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbourne International Exhibition, 880.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received.
—Adv.
The latest is that Skuthorpe maintains that he
has Leichhardt’s and Classen’s diaries, but refuses to
deliver them up except for cash. down. Now, Mr.
Skuthorpe knows, or ought to know, perfectly well that
he can get £lOOO cash down for them in Sydney.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet. — Karl Theodore Staiger, analytical
chemist."— Advt.
BOYD’S PHOTOGRAPHIC PALACE OP
ART.
250 & 252 GEORGE STREET.
The Second Anniversary of this now celebrated
establishment will occur on the 22 nd instant, when
the productions of, and the advancement made, during
the past year, will be on view.
H
P P O
ROME.
STARTLING ANNOUNCEMENT !
A LADIES' SIX DAYS’ GO-AS-YOU-PLEASE
TOURNAMENT,
(12 Hours per Dat,)
will commence
ON MONDAY,
26th September.
FIRST PRIZE—£SO, and a Magnificent Gold Necklace
and Maltese Cross, set in brilliants.
SECOND PRIZE —£25.
THIRD PRIZE—£IO.
Entrance Pee, £2 2s. Entries to be made with the
Manager, at the Hippodrome, or Bulletin Hotel, on or
before SATURDAY, 21th instant, at 8p m.
Competitors coming from a distance will have their
fares paid by communicating with the undersigned.
J. SEYMOUR, Manager.
G
O-AS - YOU - PLEASE, HIPPODROME,
Pitt-street, near Haymarket.
GRAND ATHLETIC SPORTS 1
A sequel to
the Magnificent Tournament of last week.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, and SATURDAY.
Refreshments by
THATCHER & MOORE,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Burying a Woman.”
Unless the Armidale correspondent of the Tamworth
News is a very imaginative person, indeed—and trucu-
lently so at that—the tale he tells of human depravity
is enough to make one shudder for his kind. But it is
not sufficiently novel to allow of doubt as to its truth-
fulness ; and its features, repulsive as they are, are too
familiar in instances of a like class to admit of intelli-
gent question. The incidents themselves are charac-
teristic of a not uncommon phase of bush life. A man,
travelling in a covered cart, purchases provisions at a
station, and takes the opportunity to mention to the
superintendent that his wife is very ill. On looking up
bis visitor, three days afterwards, this superintendent
(having been directed to the spot by one of the children
who unemotionally told him that her father was “ bury-
ing a woman ’’ some distance off) fonnd him filling in a
the grave of his helpmate “with as little ceremony,
and as unconcernedly,” says the correspondent, “ as one
would bury a dog! ” This is the story, in all its naked
deformity. Perhaps the first thing to strike the reader
in connection with it will be the imperturbable coolness
and almost enviable sangfroid, of all parties concerned.
Had they been Quarantine officials, they could not have
been more indifferent. The child coldly described the
last sad rites paid to her mother’s remains as the
’’ burial of a woman I ” And these last sad rites them-
selves, in the hands of the husband and father, resolved
themselves into the perfunctory concealment of the
body in earth with apparently less compunction than
one might be expected to lavish on any familiar animal
of a lower order. Cold-blooded, unsympathetic in.
humanity, such as this, argues a depth of social bar-
barism and semi-oi vilized savagery,about the significance
of which there can bo no mistake. And the incident, as
we have said, is not unique. Every provincial paper
has its own local paragraph, from time to time, with
the same family likeness. The state of things disclosed
seems inseparable from the colonial life of the Australias.
If this be one of the marks of its advanae, it is not a
promising prospect. We may well doubt the efficacy of
our plans for the spread of civilization through our vast
interior, in the hands of pioneers such as these.
A Meddlesome Wife.
In the light of recent revelations, anything tending to
bring into relief the darker side of our licensed liquor
'traffic should be particularly scrutinized. Such a case
is the one which developed itself at the police-court
within the last tew days. If the circumstances there
disclosed be true, they merit more than a passing
reference. A woman |of respectability and character
was charged with having used threatening and abusive
language to a licensed victualler. It appeared in evi.
denoe, that defendant’s husband had been living in
plaintiff’s hotel, in preference to his own home; his
wife having a maintenance order. It was alleged that
she came to this hotel, and applied to see him, but
that her application was refused by plaintiff and his
servants; she then used the language complained of.
The statement of defendant was clear enough. She
asserted that her husband was paying at the rate of
£4O per week for his maintenance, —in fact, that ho
was being systematically “ lambed down;" that
though she desired to see him on “ urgent family
affairs," her request was arbitrarily refused; and that,
excited by these facts, she may have made use of the
language complained of,—calling plaintiff a “scoun-
drel," and threatening to have his license cancelled.
The decision of the Bench was against her,—
sentenced to obtain sureties for good behaviour,
or, to be imprisoned for six months! The husband
did not appear to testify. He is subject to delirium,
tremens, the prosecutor naively informed the Court,
and recently tried to commit suicide. This was the
oi’se; and, to say the least of it—if the truth of the
statements can be accepted—it is a most extraordinary
one. It should be observed that no attempt was made
to disprove the woman’s statements. This might
easily have been done by the husband's denial, bad it
been forthcoming. The inference, therefore, is that
these charges were beside the question, and that the
only issue to be dealt with was the simple one as to
whether or not the words complained of were used 1
There is a beautiful consistency about this—rather re-
freshing than otherwise, especially when contrasted
with the usual practice of our lower tribunals. The
Bench, doubtless, took its cue from a decision in a
recent similar case. If it be desirable to issue special
license for alcoholic poisoning, and to hold the poisoner
blameless unless his positive agency and its direct
criminal effect are distinctly proved, it is undesirable
that anything should be allowed to stand in the way of
the due development of the new industry—especially if
the obstacle be a matter of sentiment merely. Waste
of substance, and delirium, and attempted suicide—
these are flimsy trifles compared with the successful
issue of an experiment such as this. And womanly
sentiment and wifely sympathy are entities as much
out of place in such a connection, as fairy fingers and
silvery laughter might be among the cog-wheels and
clangour of an iron-foundry—or the feet of an unpaid
magistracy on the rungs of a tread-mill.
Rotten Props.
No institution has shown more skilful adaptability to
the changing orders of the world than the Church of
Rome. Founded upon the Rook of Peter, it has been
very cunuing in shaping its superstructure to the
architectural fashions of the times. Pomp and splen-
dour, and an iron hand within a silken glove to match
with the monarohial tyranny of the dark ages, wherein
kings right royally apparelled branded recalcitrant
commons with Fleur-de-lis or bored their togues through
for too boldly speaking—liberal instructiveness, ex-
pansive doctrine, easy and marketable consolation,
with an application of large-hearted philanthropy to
keep pace in the gold scramble with the heretical
philosophers of the present—these were the re-
sources of Rome. It is only occasionally that
the Infallibility dogma seems fully appreciated by
the possessor thereof, or that the Vicar of the Almighty
seems conscious of the supreme authority wherewith
he is vested; only rarely, very rarely indeed, that,
like Joshua of old, he really does command the sun to
stand still or the world to revolve upon its axis ac-
cording to the constitution of the Church. And it is very
well for the Church that such errors ore rarely made.
They result in fiascos, whereof comes enquiry and ridi-
cule, aud eventually most unremunerative doubt. It
would be a long run on figures to say how much the
Vatican has lost by the effort to‘.sit down upon poor
wavering noble Galileo. It may eventually be as diffi-
cult a calculation to estimate the loss sustained by
Pope Leo’s effort to bolster up “ Divine Right.” And
t jat this is the jpurpose of the latest Encyclical no
reasonable reader can doubt. His Holiness' condemns
the .pernicious doctrine that authority is derived from
the will of the people. Where then shall we seek its
resource? Two localities are available, reached re-
spectively by elevation and descent. His Holiness
would naturally point to the former, and preach of the
investiture bestowed with the sacred oil of anointing;
and following hi* pointing, we are apt to look somewhat
closely, and seldom do we finish our research without
amazement at the strange taste of the Supreme Being
as displayed in the selection of his earthly inheritors.
Eeally, kings have been a bad set, holy oil and encyoli-
cals notwithstanding. If we accept any portion of the
Pope’s dogma with regard to them, we must certainly
not reason about the remainder. If not of the people,
reason will certainly seek the source of kingly power in
some place beneath the earth, and having discovered
the tail of Diabolus, who shall blame poor reason for
adorning it with a seditious pamphlet or a nitro-
glycerine bomb ?
Our Bold Yeomanry.
That old couplet of the Scotch poet—
“ Oh, wad some Power the giftie gie us.
To see onrsels as ithers see us,"
has so frequently been quoted it has become hallowed
by age into a sort of family prayer. And like many
another prayer its realization would not be an unmixed
blessing. “Ithers" see us according to their own
lights and stripped ef our own self-painting, but by no
means as we really are. Indeed, it should be a very
poor man and a very barbarous community, who had not
a fuller acquaintance with their own shortcomings,
than the most discriminating of their beholders. More,
over, the “ giftie ’’ does occasionally bestow that
beneficent power: the results of others seeing are pre-
sented to us, and we are thankful, of course. Very
recently this blessing has been presented to us by the
courtesy of Mr. Thomas Brtdone, President of the
Otago Agricultural Association. Mr. Brtdone has
seen ns, and here is the picture he paints : —“ I found
the free-seleotors in a state of semi-starvation,
living (most of them) in bark-roofed log huts, with
half the window-panes broken, and holes in the walls
that a small boy might crawl through." The stock
“ screwed up,” of nondescript breed, “ giving one the
shivers to look at;" the machinery, a dream of the
future; altogether, the aspect of things was “ disgust-
ing." Now, when every free-seleotor reads that record,
is there any doubt that he will go up to the temple and
worship thankfully, as upon receipt of a long-sought
shower of rain, or is it possible that he may ejaculate
piously, or bawl blasphemously, “Oh, save us from
such friends I" and reflect that in the cause of
veracity, and for the general reputation of mankind,
’tie a pity that Mr. Brtdone was not buried deeper than
the Moa of his own dear land before he put bis pen to
paper and proclaimed himself an ass ?
LATE THEATRICAL.
The Newcastle amateurs are rehearsing “ The
Sorcerer." The local classic describes their per-
formance as being quite more than most utterly intense.
* * * *
“ The shy young man who threw the bouquet
last night at the wrong time to Olivette must have felt
disgusted when he found that Olivette did not see it,
and the Duke sometime afterwards kicked it oS the
stage."— Lyre.
WHAT HE WAS BEFORE HE THREW IT.
An exceedingly shy young man.
An awfully shook young man,
A white tie end collary
Olivette follery,
** Dooaid fine gal" young man.
AFTERWARDS.
An awfully wild young plan,
A frightfully “ bluffed” young man,
A:white kids all busted.
Most beastly disgusted,
Wretchedly sold young man.
* * * *
D’Aroy Bead has postponed his opening at the
Victoria Hall until Siturday, when he will present
“The Haunted House” and “Beauty and the Beast.”
The show is quite a marvel of the weird and mysterious.
The Ohost has our best wishes.
* * * *
The Carandinis have arrived in Brisbane from
China. —Eeeve is playing the “ Crushed Tragedian" to
good business at the same place.— sorry to hear
that Miss Sherwin is very ill. We wish her a speedy
recovery, and ourselves another song.
* * * *
The Wybert Reeve company are having a good
time in Brisbane. The Courier critic is enthusiastic
over the Beryl of Miss Annie Mayor.
* * * *
The Mastodon Minstrels, managed by Wolfe,
have just concluded a very successful season in Ballarat,
and were, at latest, at Beaufort, Vic.
* * * *
The Montague-Turner opera company will go no
farther than Maitland, in their provincial tour, halls
and stages being too small. A very large number of
season tickets have been sold for the company’s
announced performances in the North.
* * * *
The Australian Comedy and Opera-bouffe Com-
pany were, on Sept. 10th, playing “Our Boys” and
“ East Lynne," at the Terra Town Hall. Harry Sim-
mons, Alice Johns, and Sam Howard. Business seems
seems to be fair.—Francis and Oddone Agroscope at
Rockhampton. Oddone’t!
* * * *
Clara Hamilton opens with her entertainment,
“Twa Oors at Hame," at Newcastle. She advertises
a column space, quite killing the Montague-Turner ad.,
which is near it, on the same page. Clara has got a
good crowd together, including Mrs. Ellis and Mr. A.
Bowen. She is a hard-working, clever little body, and
we hope the coal-trimmers will roll up.
* * * *
Messrs. J. C. Williamson and Allison will carry
in conjointly the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, and the
Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
* * * *
“The Pirates,” played by the South Opera
Company, is an immense success at Wagga. We are
pleased to know also that, an apology having appeared
in the Sentinel, James has stayed all proceedings upon
the editor paying costs. It appears, after all, that Dan
didn’t Mayne it.
* * * *
The Kelly and Leon crowd, at the Opera House,
ought to make a big hit on Saturday night with “ Fati-
nitza." We have just had a look over the argument,
and the whole three acts are full of life and sparkle. It
is a great lark. An old Russian general falls in love
with a Circassian lieutenant, named Vladimir, who is
masquerading in a girl’s dress, and the lieutenant gets
“shook” on the general’s niece,Princess Lydia. The first
scene is the Russian camp before Eustchuk, and they
have private theatricals, when the general arrives, has
a spoon with Fatinitza (Vladimir), whom he finds in
the dress of a peasant doing “ singing chambermaid in
the playand after that, Vladimir, the Princess, and
a newspaper man (whom we shall closely watch) named
Hardy, are>ll carried off by the Bashi Bazouks. In the
second act they are rescued; and the third act takes
place in the General’s Summer Palace, near Odessa.
The Princess has been proposed by the General to a
maimed and crippled old friend of his; but Julian
arrives with Vladimir, and, through the ingenuity of
the former, matters are smoothed over, and the
General, who finds in Fatinitza, whose coming he has
been impatiently expecting, nothing but a veiled negress
bearing that name, is made to believe that the real
Fatinitza has died of grief at her separation from him,
ana so he consents to the union of her brother Vladi-
mir, whom she commits to his care in a parting letter,
with his niece. So, you see, the whole thing is lively.
Mr. Wilson has [painted some pretty scenery,and the
dresses will be immense. Therefore, dear children, roll
up.
** * *
Herr Wilhelmj is back in Sydney, and reopened
on Tuesday night, aided by Max Vogrich and Miss
Conron. Urso drew well, and Wilhelmj stands on cer-
tainly as high a pedestal as Urso. Ketten drew crowds,
unassisted, and Vogrich is little inferior to Ketten.
Miss Conron thrown in, is worth a good deal, yet
the trio didn’t draw. Like the policemen in the
“ Pirates,” we cannot understand it at a-1-1-1-1. In
Melbourne things were different,
» * #
Professor Sima continues to draw thumping
houses. Perhaps the fact that he lectures—capitally,
by the way—on the cheek, accounts fpr the crowds.
So many people have a good cheek in Sydney, that the
interest in general is personal.
** * *
The matinee in aid of the Marcus Clarke
memorial fund, postponed from last week, took place
at the Theatre Royal on Wednesday afternoon. The
house had been most generously lent, free of all
charges, by Messrs. Musgrove and Garner; and, with
similar liberality, Messrs. H. R Woods & Co. had made
no charge for the printing—so that, advertising apart,
the affair was strictly a benefit. The performance
commenced by an admirable and feeling rendi-
tion by Mr. Walter Reynolds of the truly poetic
prologue written for the originators of the fund by
Mr. Garnet Waloh. Mr. Reynolds was repeatedly ap-
plauded. When the curtain rang up, a very pretty set
was disclosed for the Queen’s Theatre Company, who
gave the fourth act of “ Richelieu," in which Mr. Dew-
hurst appeared as the Cardinal Prince; and Miss
Marion Willis as Julie, and Mr. Steele as De Mauprat,
supported by Miss Follande, Miss Montague, Mr. Hay-
garth, Miss Medway, Mr. Melville, and others. Mr.
Dewhurst and Miss Willis wore frequently recalled.
* • •
The second part consisted of a concert, the
opening numbers of which, os per programme, were
omitted. Mr. W. F. Baker, who was down for “ Didst
thou but know!” did not put in an appearance. M.
Bomon, who appeared to have professed his readiness
to give a 'cello solo, failed to show up, Mr. Walter
Reynolds sang “ The dear little Shamrock” with con-
siderable taste, and Miss Carrie Godfrey, who will be
fondly remembered as having been responsible for the
introductien to Sydney of “ Grandfather’s Clock,” so
pleased the audience by her artistic rendering of Sulli-
van’s pretty ballad, “Let me dream again,” that she
was repeatedly interrupted by enthusiastic plaudits,
an encore being demanded. Mr. H. M’Mahon,
the well-known cometist, gave a pleasing fantasia.
Mr. Hodge presented at the audience his saxo-
phone, a formidable instrument which bears a resem-
blance to an Irish blunderbuss, after it has been used
for shooting round a comer. From this, however, Mr.
Hodge extracted charming music. Mr. Kennedy,
who possesses an admirable baritone voice, gave
a spirited rendering of “ The King’s Highway," and
Mr. Hallewell, who is worthy of better parts than he
has thus far had in Sydney, was encored tor “ Honour
and Arms," for which he substituted, on re-appearing,
“ Hearts of Oak." Some of the audience were so
bewildered by the departure from the order of the pro-
gramme, that they mistook Mr. Woods for the Great
Maocabe, and were only undeceived, paradoxically,
whin that celebrity declared vocally, “I’m not myself
at all." Mr. Maccabe, who acted as his own accom-
panist, song his first song in a rich, racy brogue, and
made the aadience shriek again; and he achieved an
even greater success in his second number—another
Irish song. Mr. H. R. Woods, the well-known amateur
baritone, was honoured with a recall for his capital
rendering of “ Non e Ver,” but declined an encore.
* * #
“Olivette,” Act 1., was played with excellent
spirit, Minnie Hope taking the title rdle, and playing
so capitally that we hope to see her in a prominent rdle
in “ Madame Favart." Mr. Harwood was as funny as
ever, and was compelledto give all his gaga in “ Bob up
Serenely.” The theatre was uncomfortably warm, the
steam from wet great coats being almost visible,so much
so that one gentleman in the dress circle fainted just at
the conclusion of Nellie Stewart’s solo. Miss Fattie
Laveme excused herself from playing, on the score of
illness, but sent £2 2s. in aid of the fund, to which, by
the way, Mr. Frank Hutchinson has contributed £lO
10s., and Messrs. John Fairfax and Sons a similar sum.
# • •
The financial result will he very satisfactory,
especially considering the weather. Matinee receipts,
over £BO.


H. E. Woods and Co , have a fine Hart printer.
Up to Wednesday night, sixteen persons had
died of smallpox since its appearance in Sydney.
The reason who so many are unable to take
cocoa is that the varieties commonly sold are mixed
with starch, under the plea of rendering them soluble;
while really making them thick, heavy, and indigestible.
This may be easily detected; for if cocoa thickens in the
cup it proves the addition of starch. Cadbury's Cocoa
Essence is genuine; it is therefore three times the
strength of these cocoas, and a refreshing beverage lik
tea or coffee.—Adv.
SOCIAL.
It may be of interest to some persons to hear
that a well-known opera bouffe prima donna has been
twice married, and has eight children. Tralee-trala.
• * *
Abont 200 invitations are issued for a Bachelors’
Ball to-morrow (Friday) night at Queanbeyan, and it
is to be preceded by a cricket match in the afternoon.
As this is the first ball of the sort for some years, the
ladies are all in the field, and don’t intend there shall
be any slip. To the bachelors, we can only say
Young men, of escape we’re afraid there’s no way.
Your chance is uncommonly slight;
'Though you stand all the “ maidens ” bowled during
the day,
Bold maidens will catch you at night.
» * *
Judge Harding gave a masked and fancy dress
ball at Brisbane last Friday. About 180 present, in-
eluding principal residents.
A Brisbane belle, staying at Wynyard Square,
WO re a dress which excited much admiration last week
at a lawn tennis party, Ashfleld. She represented a
man-of-war’s sailor, and the costume was perfect.
* * *
A plain and fancy dress ball at Inverell, on the
6th instant, was attended by some seven score of guests,
jt was held in the Masonic Hall, and the proceeds,
nearly £IOO, go to the local hospital. Here’s a hint to
other towns.
• • •
Dresses at Paris: A toilette recently made by
yVorth for Madame de Metternich, was of magnificent
gjtin —white ground, studded all over with large
bouquets of shaded red carnations ; the low bodice was
pointed both back and front, and the immensely long
flidn was plain—no draperies whatever. Another dress,
Mestined for a minister’s wife, was of moss-green velvet
■plush, trimmed with embroideries of Eastern design
and colouring—cashmere pattern—on ft green satin
ground. The skirt was further ornamented with
tassels and bows of multi-coloured beads; the effect
was extremely rich. Then there was a, most elegant
pearl-gray silk, covered with embroidery, the skirt
crossed with a sash of shaded grey silk; the small
bonnet composed entirely of shaded geraniums and
steel beads. Another remarkable dress was pale brown
Spanish lace over turquoise-blue satin; a lace scarf was
fastened in front with a tiny elephant represented in
diamonds. The mautille bonnet was covered with blue
feathers and Spanish lace. One toilette of mauve satin
was bordered with deep Renaissance guipure, and it
opened in front a la Medicis over a tablier of moire
worked with lilac and violet jet. The collar and cuffs
were of old guipure; the bonnet was mauve tulle
worked with pearls, and an aigrette of white feathers
at the side. Another dress was black silk gauze, with
large bouquets of carnations in cut velvet. The square
train was edged with a velvet ruche; and the square
cut panier bodice had a garland of lilac poppies on the
left side ; a handsome jet necklet. Black straw bonnet,
with Spanish lace scarf, with a tuft of lilac poppies at
the back. At a soirSe, Madame Vigier Cruvelh’s dress
was gold-coloured satin, and the bodice was crossed
with two garlands, one white, the other field flowers;
they commenced on the left shoulder and terminated at
the edge of the skirt.
» * *
At the end of last month a very successful
cricket club ball took place in the School of Arts, Cudal.
For a long time the affair had been anxiously looked
forward to, and a large gathering was the result. Old
and young danced till daylight. The beauty present
was enhanced by the elegant and costly dresses worn
during the evening. The honours of belle appeared to
be divided between two bewitching young ladies in pea
green. A young lady from the Royal also found a great
many admirers, and looked charming. The male attire
was of ft varied description ; a white silk overcoat looked
very fashionable. White kids were worn by many for
the first time, one townsman having ridden thirty miles
to obtain a pair of large sixteens, none of the local
storekeepers having the required size in stock.
# # #
At a recent fancy dress ball in Brisbane, a good-
looking youth was dressed in an old English costume,
which might be taken as a short petticoat for girls, or
a long coat for boys. A worthy Judge thought the
former was the case, and got all too completely gone on
the presumed young lady. He handed her ices, danced
several quadrilles, escorted her down to supper, and
said many tender nothings in the garden. When he
discovered that she was a him, he inwardly ejaculated,
“Then I’m no judge.”
# # #
At Tamworth, during the Show time, there were
five balls in two nights. The hop given by the leading
residents was a most enjoyable affair. Abont sixty
couples attended, and, as the hall was large enough to
hold about half that number, great satisfaction pre-
vailed, especially among the elderly gentlemen. Seri-
ously, the room was exactly four times as large as a
respectable sardine-tin, and it became questionable, at
times, whether a window would not have to be thrown
up, to allow the fiddler room for his bow. One of the
members of the orchestra, however, thoughtfully re-
moved his moustache as the music went, on.—Then
there was the ball given by the bachelors, of whom
there were three kinds present—the fine-looking fellows
who had made up their minds; those who had
no minds to make up ; and those who had
felt the iron heel, or the toe, of Destiny. There was a
fine array of beauty, and some of the dresses were
very smart. The daughter of a pastoral king was
voted the belle, and wore a rich rose-coloured silk, with
appropriate trimmings and ornaments. Amongst the
most noticeable of the other costumes and wearers
were a young lady from Gunnedah, who appeared rich—
ivory satin and a coiffure of silver bands; and a fair,
graceful young lady from “ down the country,” who,
attired in pale pink, did more mischief than a tramcar.
Dancing continued till an early hour.
• * *
A frisquette party enjoyed a pleasant afternoon
at "Lindsay,” Darling Point, last Saturday. The
teams were captained by Messrs. Drewe and Macintosh
respectively,! and the game was won by the former.
Mr. Ironsides and Lieut. Mulholland were presented by
the players with some silver-ware in recognition of
their efforts to popularise and teach the game. A
"iiptograph was taken of the players as they stood in
field. The day’s proceedings were followed by a
feasant party in the evening.
Young lady: “Do you know any of those
who were hurt in the railway accident, at Melbourne,
Mr. Brown ? ” “ Yes; I knew one or two of them.”
"Did you, indeed? Oh! how really too dreadfully
delightful—do let me introduce you to mamma! ”
There was a narrow escape from a terrible
accident at Sandhurst, recently, on the occasion of a
marriage in the Wesleyan Church there. Nearly seven
hundred people were in the gallery, while the body of
the church was crowded, and during the ceremony a
portentous cracking gave warning that the gallery was
falling. The people rushed back, relieving the
joists from the strain, only just in time, as the timbers
had already drawn from the wall more than an inch,
and the plaster was much cracked. Had the strain
continued a minute longer, nothing could have averted
many deaths, as the people were too thickly packed
below to allow of their moving from under.
» • *
Intellectual capacity always commands a
higher price than mere muscular power, and education
raises people in the social scale. A lady called on the
proprietress of a registry office, wishing to engage two
employes. She particularly stipulated that the wages
Of the cook should not exceed £52 a year, and the
salary of the governess would be £3O; but the latter
would have to be neatly clothed, and always appear as a
lady! And as these rates of remuneration were in
accordance with market prices, the situations were
duly filled. Oh! yes, mind always triumphs over
matter in these days of advancement and culture.
* * *
It is rumoured that two fashionable weddings
are shortly to take place up Queanbeyan way. The
ladies will have to lament one of the nicest bachelors,
and the gentlemen one of the prettiest girls in the
neighbourhoc and.
* * #
On the 6th, the pupils attending Mrs. Blakey’s
school, at Cobar, gave a concert and play in the Assem-
bly Rooms, to a crammed audience. The proceeds go
to provide Ohristmas prizes. The concert included a
chorus by infants (taught on the Kindergarten system,
by signs and recreative games), which was quite a
novelty. “ The Duchess of Mansfeldt ” was then played,
with great success. Miss Parker as the Duchess, and
Miss Maher as the Lady of Honour, opened in a clever
dialogue. Misses A. Mulvay, Woolcock, M. Qillett,
and A. Johns deserve notice. The performance was ap-
preciated, and reflected credit on all connected with it.
But a very few years since, white men were unknown
at Cobar.
• * *
On last Friday night, there was a charming ball
at Darling Point. Some of the dresses were “ quite too
awfully nice.” Water-lilies and sunflowers were seen in
abundance, as also were baby-roses and hawthorn. There
were several ladies there, dressed in true aesthetic
fashion. One, the wife of a merchant prince, had on a
cream satin, embroidered in gold, trimmed with pea-
cock eyes, and wore humming birds in her dark brown
hair. She was undoubtedly the married belle.
# # #
There was a great lark recently at the opening
of the Darlington Railway. The ceremony was, of
course, followed by a spread, but somehow no invitations
were sent to the district engineer, the contractor’s
engineer, or to any of his assistants —notwithstanding
that these gentlemen had been unwearying in their
efforts to oblige the Dorlingtonians in the matter of
crossings, etc. Well, after the impressive ceremonial,
the company trooped into the booth, leaving the
officials alluded to gazing at one another on the plat-
form. .... When the revelry in the tent was at
its height, two personages might have been seen
in the small parlour of a distant hotel “ wolfing,” with
knitted brows, the humble fare of the humble hostelrie.
These were no less personages than the district en-
gineer, and the contractor’s engineer. What became of
the assistants, and how they “ assuaged their gastrono-
mical vacuities” is unknown; although it is a signifl.
cant fact that at a little store in the remndge, there was a
run on captain’s biscuits. The cream of the joke,
however, is that the railway people subscribed nearly
all the money that went to give the Darlingtonians a
free feed, from which their own shining lights were ex.
eluded.
* * «
It is surprising how young men can make them-
selves consummate asses without knowing it—as some
did at a Bazaar up the River, last week. Imagine a
great hulking fellow, 6 ft. in his stockings, carrying
round a cradle, some articles of ladies' clothing, pin-
onshions, or dolls, and soliciting visitors to take a
chance in a raffle for them I Pretty girls can do these
things; but when men do them, we can’t help thinking
that, though charity may cover a multitude of sins, it
will not cover ineffable folly.
* •
“ Positively enchanting,” was the motto of the
badges on some of the young ladies* breasts at the stalls
at the Parramatta Bazaar. And so they were.
mm m
There was a ball in aid of the R.C. Church at
Wellington, last Friday, attended by many visitors—
some even from Parramatta. We hear that a young
lady from Dubbo was voted the belle. The “ Squad-
rington Polka" was what a local girl called the
dance introduced by the mids ” on their recent visit.
• • «
A nice ball, in oonneotion with the Kinking Club,
Woollahra, was held in Glammis Hall on Wednesday
se’nnight. _ Conpicuocs figures were a young lady in
bine, one in white with heliotrope trimmings, and
another with a wreath of gold. The City Catering Co.
gave complete satisfaction, and the decorations and
music were very good.
• « «
The guests who were entertained by the Mayor
of Yass, some time since, purpose giving him a return
ball—most probably on the 5th proz.
• * •
The spinsters of Lithgow gave a return ball to
the bachelors, last Friday, in the local School of Arts.
The attendance was not very large.
• • •
The Parramatta Hospital Bazaar was an un-
qualified success. Some side-shows were happily
introduced as novelties; a humorous fine arts exhibi-
tion and telephonic concerts being well patronised.
The telephone was connected with the drawing-room of
a well-known Parramatta resident, who was the bone
and sinew (in fact, the whole body) of the bazaar, and
ladies and gentlemen assembled there, and sang and
played to an audience a quarter of a mile away. The
operator at the bazaar end was not always truthful, and
informed his audience, when a lady was singing
“ Carissima," that the singer was at Mount Victoria,
and the pianist at Albury. “ Wonderful 1” “ Marvel-
lous I” were the expressions on all sides. Then came
this message through the machine: ” Ten o’clock.
Jack; shut up the show, and drop over for some
whisky.” The operators changed ends the following
nights.
« « *
When Oscar Wilde chooses—as ho generally
does —to be ” intense,” his poems are turgid. But
when he allows himself to bo natural—but there, read
this gem:—
” REQUIEbCAT.
“ Tread lightly, she is near
Under the snow.
Speak gently, she can hear
The daisies grow.
11 All her bright golden hair,
Tamisheid with rust.
She that was young and fair
Fallen to dust.
“ Lily-white, white as snow.
She hardly knew
She was a woman, so
Sweetly she grew.”
• • •
Mr. P. Utz and several other gentlemen were
fined in small sums, the other day, at Glen Innes, for
breaches of the Lotteries Act, in connection with the
disposal of articles at the recent local Masonic Fancy
Fair. The P.M. remarked that the only exceptions
under the Act were in favour of churches and charitable
institutions, and he was further so obliging as to point
out that action had not been taken in this case by the
police from any excess of new-born zeal or over-
officiousness in meddling with things that had formerly
been passed unnoticed, but simply, he understood, in
pursuance of their duty under recent instructions from
their superiors. In other words, the holy Parkes
Government has issued a ukase to the effect that what
is perfectly legal as regards a “ church" is to be treated
as illegal with respect to all outside institutions—such,
say, as Freethought halls. Sir Henry and Co. are ap-
parently Ministers not of law but of theology.
# # #
The Benedicts last (Wednesday) evening enter-
tained a company of 200 at the Town Hall.,..Miss Os-
borne, of “ Kincoppal,” Elizabeth Bay, has issued 100
invitations for the evening of 16th instant.
Mrs. Thomas Cadell, of “ Wotonga,” North Shore, en-
tertains 100 guests at her residence on 23rd.
* * *
The marriage of Miss Marks, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. M. Marks, “Marita,” Darlinghurst Road,
with Mr. J. G. Solomon, will take place on 6th October.
* * *
A girl in Ballarat, who likes a joke, has been
carrying her fun too for, and it is likely to get her into
trouble. She enters a shop, explains that she is about
to be married, and selects a wedding tronsseau accord-
ing to her taste, which she orders to be sent to the
gentleman whose name she is about to take, and who,
she states, will settle the little bill. The goods are
sent, but the gentleman knows nothing whatever of
them, or the girl, and the enraged shopkeeper has to
place them in stock again. This little game has been
played on several young men in the “ city of gold,"
who have all found the consequences more or less un-
pleasant, To be picked upon, " free-selected,” as it
were, by a young lady in this way, is, perhaps, flatter-
ing to the victim, but it is very embarrassing—for this
eccentric damsel (as in the case of the “ femail ”
Shakeress of Artemus Ward) no doubt usurps, in some
cases, the place already occupied by some previous
Betsy Jane, and it is quite possible there will be some
faces scratched yet.
* * *
The Freemasons of Port Macquarie have enter-
tained Mr. Max Zglinicki, prior to his removal from the
district. The highest spirits prevailed during the
evening. Everybody was enchanted to think they
■would never again be required to pronounce their
guest's name.
* # #
A quadrille assembly has been inaugurated at
Newcastle.
# # #
As showing the extent to which political ani-
mosity is corned in Queensland, the following incident,
which occurred during the visit of the Princes, may bo
mentioned. A Victorian lady, on a visit to the sunny
capital of our neighbour, declined an invitation to a
ball given by the wife of the Premier, but shortly after
accepted one to an entertainment given by the wife of
the leader of the Opposition. Subsequently, a picnic
was given in honour of their Royal Highnesses, by the
Government, and the Victorian lady was denied the I
privilege of being present, in consequence (her friends
say), of her having shown a preference for the Opposition
[ lady’s hospitality.
• * «
“San Francisco” Boyd celebrates the second
anniversary of the opening of his studio, on the day
(and evening) of Thursday, 22nd inst., when he will
exhibit the productions of the post year. Pleasure and
business artistically mixed.
• ♦ «
The annual hospital ball, at Glen Innea, will
eventuate on the 11th October. As the proceeds of
previous occasions have been small, the committee
intend to do as is done elsewhere in such oases, namely,
solicit donations in kind from the storekeepers and
others of the town, and it is hoped the tradesmen and
townspeople of Glen Innea will prove as liberal as their
brethren in the metropolis, and that a large net sum
will accrue to the hospital.
• • *
A well-known hospitable ship-broker, of Pad-
dington, entertained about fifty friends by a picnic and
harbour trir>, last Saturday, in the steam launch
Britannia. After cruising a while, the party landed at
Balmoral, and had refreshments. Dancing was then
indulged in till dusk, and all returned home well pleased
at 8 o clock.
• » ♦
The bachelors of Bourke intend to give a ball
shortly.
• * *
The Balmain Amateur Minstrels gave a very
enjoyable complimentary entertainment at Glammis
Hal), Paddington, on Friday, to a large number of
friends. Dancing followed.
* * •
Two fashionable weddings expected at Maitland
shortly. The pretty daughter of a well-to-do con-
tractor with the son of a large mining proprietor
hailing from Armidale; and the accomplished daughter
of a jovial and popular townsman with a Bathurst
gentleman,
• « •
The return ball given by the Benedicts of Mait-
land to the Bachelors, took place on Wednesday week
in the pavilion on the Albion Ground. About 200 were
present, and it was quite a success. The belle was said
to be a young lady, dressed in pure white, from Sydney.
The daughters of a Reverend looked charming ; so did a
married lady in a white silk skirt and ruby velvet
bodice; a Richmond belle in pink; and the daughter
of a leading warehouseman.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Public prayers in New York for the recovery of
President Garfield Intense beat in America
Cholera at Aden Mr. Chitty, Q.C., elevated to the
Bench Futile attemps to blow up the Castlebar
barracks with an explosive machine CEcnnemical
Council of Methodists opened in London The Queen
has conferred the Garter on the King of Spain
Brigands attacked a railway train 41 miles from Madrid,
but were repulsed, and many drowned in trying to es-
cape The beef ex Protoa is tainted; had been frozen
before cool after slaughtering Great forest fires in
Michigan, U.S.A four more Land Leaguers released
from prison Twelve brigands robbed a train in
Kansas of £30,000 Liberal candidate elected for
Tyrone. The Farnellites had no show Trades-
Union Conference held at London denounces all
foreign restriction on trade Control of indirect
taxes has been handed over to Turkish bond-holders
The Austrian press prognosticates war with Russia
While a train was passing over a bridge in Kentucky,
U.S., the structure gave way. 70 persons killed
Hungarian press comments apprehensively on the meet-
ing of the Emperors of Russia and Germany In-
creasing coolness between France and Spain.... Mr. A. M.
Sullivan, Home Ruler, is about to retire from the repre-
sentation of Meath. Sir Chas. Gavan Duffy will probably
bo a candidate for the seat Lancashire cotton-spin-
ners threaten to stop their mills in order to suppress
the Liverpool ring of brokers President Garfield
mending. Has recovered his appetite Conference of
colonials in London favour free trade throughout the
colonies, and representation in the Imperial Parlia-
ment,. ..Duel between French officers. Both wounded,...
Eighty slaves liberated in Egypt Toronto regatta
on 9th instant. Hanlan did not enter. Triokett came in
last. In the pair oar, Boulay and Hanmm boat Triokett
and Gaudaur The Czar met the Emperor of Ger-
many at Dantzig, on board the Imperial yacht. The
Czar’s brothers and Foreign Minister, and the Crown
Prince of Germany and Bismarck, were present. Inter-
view cordial... .Outbreak by soldiery of Egypt. Khedive,
surrounded in his own palace, consented to dismiss his
Ministry Forest fires in Michigan, U.S., devas-
tated farms Thousands houseless. 200 persons
burnt Bismarck intends to restore the German lega-
tion at the Vatican Frozen meat, ex Cuzco; beef,
good, fetched 4d to s^d; mutton, inferior to Protos
shipment, 5d to ssd. Market flat Heavy fighting at
Gillipona, Tunis, between natives and French. Foreign
residents fled on board ships in harbour. British and
French warships expected to protect lives and property...
Scotch tenant farmers are agitating for a reform in the
land laws A Tory organization to advocate fiscal re-
taliatiou on Protectionist countries has been started.
The Irish Land League and the Lord Lieutenant
have each subscribed £5OO towards an Exhibition at
Dublin Turkey has handed over the Punta, another
part of the ceded territorv, to Greece France has
offered the Bey of Tunis 15,000 troops, to suppress the
resistance of his subjects to French supremacy New
York Protectionists agitating for increased Customs
duties Severe earthquake in the Abruzzi, near
Naples. Great destruction of property and loss of life.
Pirates have siezed a British vessel near Samos, in
the Greek Archipelago Egyptian treasury and bullion
removed for safety to Alexandria England and
France oppose the idea of a joint European occupa-
tion of Egypt French troops have occupied Susa, on
the Tunisian coast The Arabs have occupied la-
bour ba, close to Tunis The Park Theatre, Camden
Town, London, burnt down Supposed battle between
Ayoub Khan and Abdul Rahman near Candahar.
Sounds of firing heard all Saturday and Sunday last
Austrian Chamber of Commrrce agitating for increased
protective duties A sergeant of police attempted to
lynch Guiteau, by shooting him in his cell, while re-
lieving guard. Missed. Arrested Chinnery sculling
contest, for £l5O, was won by Boyd, Largan second,
Hawdon third; time 24min. 24sec , from the A queduct
to Mortlake Garfield feverish, but improving Re-
sult of Egyptian military emeute doubtful The
English and Scottish Laud League denounce the Pro-
tectionist revival Sir Samuel Wilson, of Victoria,
has rented the Hughenden Manor, Beaconsfleld’s late
residence. “To what base uses! "
“The Bulletin” Clontarf Libel Case.
The motion for a new trial in the case, Moore Brothers
v. Hay net- and another, was argued before the Pull
Court, on Wednesday. Mr. Barley, Q.C., for plaintiffs;
Mr. Salomons, Q.C., for defendants. Their Honors
reserved their decision.
BRIEF MENTION.
A mash-ine—The tram.
Shoddy men on the Northern war-path.
A barrel-organ.—The Licensed Victuallers’
Gazette.
Song of the quarantined—" When I am Faraway
from thee.”
Only a little Power was needed to beat down a
Rush—on Monday.
Dr. Cortia, of Bathurst, says N.S.W. is “ The
Paradise of Quacks.*'
Eush says the rough water did it. People,
therefore, went to see a reed shaken by the wind.
They did not fumigate Lord Normanby on his
return to Melbourne from Sydney.
He{x)sperianoe has taught a few lately that
Trump Yoss doesn't imply “ trump ’oss."
Hooray for consistency! Alfred Allen, the great
anti-vaccination lecturer, has been vaccinated.
Another nurse has swallowed carbolic acid in
mistake for brandy. Mrs. Gamp is now very much
“indispoged."
A Chinaman a ( Grafton has been fined .£lOO for
having an illicit still. There will be Chinese Town-hall
contractors yet.
It was evidently through no fault of the Quaran-
tine authorities that Constable Cook’s cough did not
terminate in a coffin.
On a recent Saturday night, two frolicsome
Balmain girls, clad in male attire, paraded George-
streot for over three hours.
A Good Templar Lodge has been opened on the
Railway extension from Dubbo to Nyngan. The “pub.”
in the vicinity does a large bottle trade now.
All the patients who were slightly shaken in the
Melbourne railway accident, are “considered by their
medical attendants to be in a critical condition."
The Murbdmbubbah Signal appeared the
other day with its outside pages printed in blue ink. It
looked very blue indeed—quite a signal of distress.
Tuesday’s Ltbe says“ The Rev. A. Burdett
has been appointed editor of The Banner op Troth "
We congratulate him; but what is The Banner op
Troth ?
The Maryborough Chronicle says the Wax-
works now being exhibited locally, contained “ some
celebrated newspaper men, and other interesting
criminals.”
The Maryborough (Q.) band have got new in-
struments. There is consequently plenty of brass
there for sale. Members of Parliament supplied at
reduced rates.
We understand there has been a bit of a shine
between some of the Coffee Palace directors. The
question at issue was, of course, one of “ stout-hearted
philanthropy I"
If the reports in Queensland Hansard are
correct, one side of the Assembly is occupied by thieves,
and the other side by liars. A pretty choice for a new
member to make.
5739 certain cures for small-pox have been pub-
lished during the last month, yet the death-rate con-
tinues to jog along. People never will take good advice
—until they're buried.
Says the Ulladulla paper, in re the Matrimo-
nial News :—“ The new venture is neatly got up, and
will doubtless find its way into many homes." So it will.
But to what part of the bouse P
“ Oh, clap your hands," Dame Bardwell said,
“ With joy you girls be limy;
The oracle’s been nicely worked,
I’ve euchred Mr. Rooney !’’
The reason that organ in the Northern church
went wrong was not chlorodyne. There was a rat in the
instrument. The music has since killed it.
A Parramatta youngster, not satisfied with the
ordinary vaccination process to which the family doctor
had subjected him, vaccinated himself in ten several
places, with matter from the original spots.
On account of the prevalence of small-pox here,
the Victorian Government have forbidden the importa-
tion of rags from Sydney. How will this affect the
Southern circulation of our penny dailies P
Writes Thadeus O’Kane: —“ We intend to
parade two defaulters to the Northern Mintr every
fortnight. We shall stand no more nonsense. The
names will be found in the Petty Debts report."
The wife of a popular Western tradesman
•loped last week with a saw bench hand in a timber
yard. The night before she left she purchased £5O
worth of jewellery on her husband’s credit. There’s a
row.
No one, who has not been, or is not an aider-
man, knows what a profitable thing it is to belong to
the Municipal Council. Do they, ? By the way,
how is it that we hear no more about the Town Hall
tiles?
Speaking of a reporter, the Cooma Express
says:—“ ■—— has been degrading his profession by
getting ‘run in.’ ” We know a few reporters in Sydney
and elsewhere who have 11 elevated ” their profession
by being run ont. The only difference we can see in it
Is, in one case the reporter has to "part" or go to
"cbokee," and in the other, the landlady has to lose
without any alternative whatever.
At the Municipal Council, on Tuesday, Aider-
men J. D. Young and Alderman Green bad a row over
the purchase of Mr. England's land, Mr. J. D. Young
stating " that he did not believe the statement of any
man who wished to sell land at £7OO at acre if he could
net £l3OO for it." And subsequently he remarked,
“ that from the way Alderman Green was trying to get
the Council to buy this land, he should be inclined to
think there was something more in it than met the
eye.” From which it might reasonably be inferred
that if Alderman Young has no green in his eye in one
sense, he most certainly has in another.
“ Mr. Levien said the constable, it appeared,
had received strict orders not to admit anybody at a
certain part of the enclosure, and refused to allow Sir
George Innes to pass. The latter then reported the
constable to the Inspector-General of Police, and the
constable was disrated."
—HERALD.
A stranger, on enquiring at Tamworth for th©
bill-sticker, was directed to one of the newspaper
Macquin, he was a constable,
With two stripes on his cuff;
But though he’d seen much service, he
Was innocent enough!
He knew not how to toady, and
Was in a far worse plight;
He didn’t know the Ministry
And Members all by sight.
His orders were—" Let no one pass; **•—
But the crowd did disgorge
Sir J. G. but the name’s too long—
We’ll risk it on “ Sir George."
*• You'cannot pass," the peeler said.
And then it should have ended;
He did his duty, and he was—
Promoted ?—No, suspended.!
And serve him right! No patience have
We with this man at all
What! told it was a Minister
And even then not crawl !
Not fall down prostrate in the dust.
The great man’s garment kiss !
What hopes of future can there bo
For such a man as this ?
What 1 do his duty! Pshaw, the man’s
Naught but a clumsy clown—
His duty —when it would offend
A Min’ster of the Crown!
Macquin, Macquin, take this advice.
And don’t you our tip halve: —
To ev’ry Jack-in-office, you
Must grovel, or you’ll starve/
We have no pity for you, man,
Though you have suffered, sure:
If you would prosper, then Go forth,
And honest be no more.


offices. "Is he in?" asked the stranger, repairing
thither. "No, sir; the editor is down hilling
potatoes.”
Not long ago, an actor was drawing £12 per week.
And he gave his manager notice. He came back a month
later, “ on his uppers,” and said “ Star me in the bills,
and I’ll take £6.” He is now all amongst the big type
—bill-sticking.
In a recent speech, Sir Henry said : —“ I will
fight to the last, and when I am beaten I will fall with
my colours flying.” Surely, Henry doesn’t mean to
“ go down” in a quarantined house, over which the
yellow flag flies.
A correspondent asks whether “ David,” who
pays for the publication of sermons in the Sydney Mail
—nice sermons, by the way: everyone should read them
—is the hon, member for Mudgee. We don’t exactly
know, but we should think so.
The pnppy-dog trick is alive again in Brisbane.
A pressman bought a beautiful poodle, on a string, a
few nights since, and took it home. Next morning, the
string was there, and the half-crown poodle gone. It
was the pressman that was on the string.
Said Dr. Andrew Boss, in a recent small-pox
sermon: “ Never use any but eight-day matter.” If
Andrew thinks he has sprung a novelty in the above he
is greatly mistaken. There's a paper in Sydney which
has acted on the same principle ever since it started.
The Brisbane Telegraph and Evangelical
Standard have come to the virtuous conclusion that
whatever does not please them is vile in the extreme.
But if a certain politician kept a harem, they would
both combine and say, “ What a truly heavenly idea 1”
At Dubbo, a fellow has been for some time way-
laying women and young girls of a night, and grossly
insulting them. Many complaints were made to the
5olice, who at last awakened to their responsibilities,
'hey sallied out in great force, and captured—the wrong
man.
It was out on the Albert Eiver, and Mick was
trying to give a new-chum countryman of his own an
idea of the prosperity of Australia in general. “ Be
jabers,” said he, " this is a foine counthry, where yez
get three males a day, mate at every male, and tay
wid it.”
Meston, M.P., of Queensland, recently stated in
the House that he had shot 104 kangaroos, at one
battue, with his own gun. But—as the battue only
lasted about two hours, and Meston was alone on a hill
by himself—there is no chance of corroborating this
statement.
Ferguson, in the Parramatta Evening Sor-
ceress, says : —“ The ability of Mr. Garnet Walch, who
ran the Cumberland Times for the first twelvemonths
of its existence, is too well known.” So it is. Garnet
has been travelling on the name he made in Parramatta
ever since.
Latest departure of a Domain open-air ecclesi-
astic : “ Now, my dear brethren, you are in fear of your
bodies, and you all get yourselves vaccinated from the
calf. Come to me, and I will purify your souls with
lymph from the Lamb.” This is verbatim, and yet the
preacher isn’t in gaol.
There is a squatter up North who, when a car-
rier brought a load of heavy timber to him, measured
it himself. As it had been loaded green, and travelled
in the hot weather, it had shrunk considerably ; so he
actually stopped the carriage for loss of weight as
shown by the measurement.
It’s unlucky, but it is a coincidence, that when
the Mayor was not invited to the Statue affair, John
said the omission was accidental, and when Mr,
Josephson was not invited (till all was over) to receive
the Princes at Eandwick Asylum, John said —that the
omission was accidental, again.
A boy, named James Thompson, aged 12 years,
who, according to the charge-sheet, was arrested on a
charge of “ being under the age of 16 years ” was
brought before the Central Police Court, the other
day. We forget what he got, now, but suppose it was
imprisonment during his natural life.
A gentleman, who was in the Brighton railway
accident, had recently added £200 to a former assur-
ance, and as he crawled unharmed from amongst the
debris, he was heard to murmur: " Only paid the
premium last Toosday. Lot o’ good it’s done mel ”
And he looked round upon the corpses with a jealous
eye.
The southern mail brought numerous visitors to
the Tamworth Show. They crowded the pubs. After
tea, music, and songs—“ Let me kiss him,” " Father,
dear father,” etc. etc., the unwashed crowded round.
“ Good heavings,” cried the Punoh-and-Judy man, “ I
thought there was no show agin us.” And he straight-
way struck tent.
There was a row in Brisbane the other day. An
angry sire, owning an estate 50 x 150ft., caught his
daughter’s chap playing the flute underneath her win-
dow. " How dare you 1” he cried. “ Get off my
property.” " I will,” said the Lothario, with a grin.
And putting his flute in his pocket, he gave a standing
jump—and obeyed.
IN MEMO El AM,
Died August, 1881.
The shearing was getting scanty.
His cheque was for eighty-three,
He went for the nearest shanty,
And was buried on Wingadee.
A new arrival got two months on the 6th for
assaulting the night porter at the Eoyal with his um-
brella, because he was refused, drinks at day-break.
When the sentence was pronounced the defendant ap-
peared quite surprised. " He had understood at home,”
ho said, “ that out in Australia you could kill a man
you didn’t like, and pay for him.”
In 1872, the s.s. Hero, from Auckland, having
a case of small-pox on board,was quarantined in Sydney
Cove. The patient was sent ashore and died, but the
remainder of the passengers remained on board and had
larks. Prank Weston was one, and seized the oppor-
tunity to lecture on his Wizard Oil and to banjoize.
This deprived the passengers of any excuse for taking
the infection.
J. V. Mulligan, the pioneer prospector of the
Far North, has just imported a nephew from the
Emerald Isle. Whilst introducing him to his Hodg-
kinson friends, J. V. brought him to, amongst others,
the well-known Billy Little. Billy eyed the youngster
for a moment, and then put it to him straight, thus:
“How many landlords have yon shot?” The nephew
blushed, and left.
Amongst the pleasant dinners given in honour
of the Hon. W. J. Clarke, was that by the bankers of
Melbourne. Just as the olives and the claret were
placed upon the table, said one of the entertainers who
had been counting heads, “By Jove! there are just
forty of us.” “ Yes,” said one present, who is not
exactly a banker, “ and I am Ali Baba!” “iEgles” is
authority for this.
“A Japanese audience never hiss or make a
hideous noise when they wish to express disapproval
of a bad play. They merely turn their faces away from
the performers.” This is what some of the young men
do in the dress-circle at the Eoyal. It is not, however,
because they disapprove of the play, but simply to give
the girls on the stage the treat of beholding the parting
of their back hair.
A deputation from some sort of denomination
waited upon Sir Arthur Kennedy the other day. The
messenger entered the room, to tell the worthy knight,
and presented him with a subscription list. Taking a
look at it, K. said, " Tell them to go to ” The re-
mainder of the sentence was lost in the loud voice of
the messenger, who said, “ Goodness ! sir, the deputa-
tion is in the room.” Fact.
A certain clergyman took his text from Job, on
Sunday last, and asked: “ Why, then, do the sinful
live; why are they advanced and made strong in riches?”
Bookmaker Bradbury happened to be sitting in the stalls
that day, and, rising up, replied: “ Because they are
entitled to write * The Honorable ’ before their names
that’s the why and the wherefore; and you can tell
Job that Sam Bradbury says so.”
A Chinaman had the good taste to die up Cooma
way last week, and if the local paper’s account of the
burial festivities is correct, the mourners must have
felt as happy as if they had been at a Lord Mayor’s
banquet, or at a land-sale free lunch. Eoast pork,
ducks, geese, and other luxuries were handed round
galore—in fact, the graves, as Alfred would say, "fairly
groaned beneath the viands.”
The report of an English boat race published in
the Armidale Express, reads thus :—“ At Fawley
Court Thames want in front, and Cornell fell to the rear.
Increasing their lead every stroke, the Thames men
won in the end by two 4 out of the cart and took to
their heels. Ginn thereupon, lifting the coffin-lid, also
ran in an opposite direction, and by the latest accounts
had not since been heard of.”
The S. M. Herald says that “ A strange idea
occurred to a man named dagger," a resident at the
Kawakawa, who raffled himself for twenty members, at
4s. each, the winner to have dagger’s services for four-
teen days.” The same “ strange idea ” seems to have
lately occurred to many N. Z. people. Another 4 ’curious
idea," very prevalent in Maoriland just now, is to hang
yourself if you can’t get work.
Mr. Milford says that the District Court,
Charters Towers, is a 44 bear garden.” If he only
dropped into the Central Police Court some morning
when a couple of "gentlemen, by Act of Parliament,” are
at it” at the table, and a conple of J’s.P. are 44 going
it” on the bench, he would see at once that it a bear
strolled by accident into the court at that time —the
row would frighten him to death.
On the Hodgkinson, the other day, an old lady,
I of 65 winters—whose burly, not to say ferocious, aspect
and many quarrels have gained her, at the hands of the
diggers, the expressive and elegant soubriquet of 44 The
Bull Pup”—was again brought up for tippling, &c. She
persisted in addressing the presiding magistrate as
44 my dear,” and got six months. Whereupon she said,
44 Thank you, darling.” The young bench blushed.
One of the Queensland civil service departments
is presided over by a very pompous 44 chief.” Whenever
44 a pallid and thin young man," with a timid air, comes
to him for official instructions, he invariably addresses
his subordinate thus : 44 Don’t be so nervous, my dear
young fellow —I’m approachable.” The clerks all deny
that he is 44 approachable”—in fact, they’d much rather
talk to him by means of a telephone, with four miles
between him and them.
The hon. members of the Cruelty to Animals
Prevention Cos. positively assert that if another horse
is “skelped” at the start in the style was
they will not only go down in a body, and expostulate
with the jockey, but, “demme, they will also be very
much annoyed,—demme, so they will.” If a horse
won’t start according to instructions received, the
proper thing to do is to belt in his head with the judge’s
flagpole, or get down and build a bonfire under him.
44 Well, my dear, what do you think of the
assemblage ?” enquired the lady of a well-known publi-
can, at St. Vincent’s Ball, of the lady of an equally
well-known shoemaker’s wife. 44 Rather mixed,” ire-
plied the latter, tossing her head, and looking with
steelly eyes at her interlocutor. But the other was
equal to the occasion. 44 Quite so," she replied; 44 my
husband went home half an hour ago. He said he
could not endure the smell of beer.” They are strangers
now.
They were at breakfast in the coffee-room of a
Sydney hotel. And they were strangers. Suddenly,
one who had been perusing a newspaper with an im-
patient countenance, throws the sheet from him, and
says, 44 D—n the paper, there is nothing in it 1" 44 What
paper is that P" enquired the gentleman opposite. The
other pulled out his bank pass-book, and carefully
examined it. 44 1 am not yet rich enough to answer
your question, 44 he replied. It was some time before
the other saw it.
A few friends of an excellent Queensland gentle-
man, recently deceased, wished to erect a tablet to his
memory. A stained glass window was proposed by the
Bishop, and the cost stated at £2OO. Wnen the bill
came in, the loving friends found they were let in for a
£750 job. '■ What is the design ?” was the natural
query. 44 The Ascension, of course, 44 replied a well-
known and witty member of the Legislative Council;
44 it will be an everlasting reminder to you all of the
rise the Bishop took out of you. 44
Says a London society paper:—“ Her Majesty
the Queen, at the Prince of Wales's garden-party,
honoured Madame Nilsson with the gracious distinction
of retaining her quite ten minutes in a conversation, as
I am informed, of the most flattering and condescending
kind.” Where was the condescension? The Queen
can’t sing as well as Nillson—can’t act as well. Isn’t
as clever in any way, Had Nilsson been born of blood
Royal,and Victoria Guelph been born a plebeian, Victoria
would never have come nearer Nilsson than to iron her
housemaid’s dresses.
At Armidale, the other evening, a present local
resident, who formerly held the proud title of 44Coota-
mundra Champion Eater," managed (in the presence of
a numerous company) to encompass two dozen boiled
eggs, in one minute under the hour. Before commenc-
ing, he looked the picture of health and confidence. He
disclaimed any preparation, further than shaking a few
reefs out of his cravat; and, on account of his lively
appearance, long odds were offered against the eggs,
without takers. The satisfactory result of this little
affair is entirely attributed to Good Templarism.
The sarcastic pen of the Nooze’s Brevity editor
is as keen and bright as the butt-end of a big Bologna
sausage. Last Friday’s 44 suck-in edeeshin” says;—
44 Articles were signed last night for John Moore to run
a 4 stranger from home 4 a hundred yards in a month."
Johnny isn’t quite such an oyster, however, as the
Nooze would make him out to be. We have repeatedly
seen him do a hundred yards in a week, and he was
once backed to run all day before breakfast, but was
unfortunately overtaken and knocked down hy a one-
horse hearse, which was passing along with a pauper’s
funeral.
Some time ago, Professor Denton was lecturing
in a small American town on 44 The Age of Reptiles."
The discourse was illustrated, and the forms of extinct
monsters were shown by the use of a stereopticon. In
the middle of the lecture an old rum-sucker, named
Jack Bagley, staggered into the room, which he had
mistaken for the Convivial Club in the next street.
Jack sank into a chair, trembling all over, and for a few
minutes gazed at the screen with a horrified expression.
Then he braced up, walked out, went round to the
Y.M.C.A. building, and signed the pledge. He thought
he had ’em I
This is how they toast the ladies in Parramatta:
— 44 Ah, Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen, —We needn’t go
further than the present company to ascertain what the
general and popular opinion is with reference to the
ladies. Notwithstanding the bickerings of a few
would-be-married-if-they-oould-but-can’t individuals, 1
do not think old Adam committed a great error when
he so generously contributed one of his ribs towards
the formation of a feminine being; and I can seriously
assur j you that, should such an emergency again arise,
I shall not hesitate to follow in the footsteps of our
great progenitor.”
The Irish are turning the weapon, satire, so
much employed against them, upon their censors. A
satirical journal, Pat, is now issued, the front page car-
toon representing a cylinder placed at the door of a cot-
tage and labelled “Eviction —Dynamite,” and the letter-
press runs thus 44 A Real Outrage : The other night
some dissolute ruffians placed an infernal machine out-
side the cabin of Tim Honlahan, which exploded, blow-
ing Tim and his family into the wide, wide world !
Note :—The police have been communicated with, but
decline to take any notice of the occurrence, except to
caution Tim not to do it again.”
Another case of the Small- . . . No, we mean
the msthetic mania has just been discovered out Dar-
ling Point way. The 44 upper crust ” were assimilating
their vespernal vegetables, last Friday se’nnight, when
the ethereal lithe-limbed 44 daughtah ” of a Della.
Cruscan lady, who resides 44 neah the watah,” languidly
observed : 44 Mammah, deah ! Chawles was reading to-
day that the Grafting rowah had vanquished our cham-
pion, Layco." For the benefit of this ultra-poetical
damozel, we may observe that the Layco referred to is
a native of Paree, and writes his name Ldcoq. Let us
cling passionately together, and think of steak and
onions.
The new Collector of Customs consulted his im-
mediate subordinates in the re-organization of his
department. The outcome was the following minute:
— 44 Much rather would I have the advice, and profit by
the long experience and practical knowledge of the
landing surveyors; bnt I regret to find divided counsels
exist to such an extent, that the only alternative left
me is the exercise of my own discretion. I therefore
direct," &o. The beautv of the thing is that, when the
L.S.’s received this, instead of pocketing the snub, they
sent it round to the landing waiters, 44 for their infer-
mation.” Verily, all the innocents did not suffer the
extreme penalty under Herod. I
Recently, at Maryborough (Q.), the Mayor pre"
sided at a temperance lecture, delivered by an M.L.A-
At the conclusion of the discourse, his Worship got up*
and in proposing a vote of thanks to the lecturer be"
came eloquent upon the subject of total abstinence-
Hardly had he uttered his final adjective, than a clergy-
man on the platform arose, and coming towards him
with a book, requested him in loud tones to sign the
pledge. Then came an awful pause, followed by a roar
of laughter. His Worship had declined.
A man went to a doctor in Elizabeth-street, said
he felt ill, and the medical man examining his chest
told him to clear out as he had the small-pox. The
man wandered about mad with terror for a couple of
days, then went to the Infirmary, was admitted, is still
a patient, and has never had the small-pox at all. He
was by trade a stone-breaker, and the marks were
caused by the particles of metal penetrating his shirt.
He writes to ask us if he can recover the five shillings
he paid the astute medico. Our opinion is he ought to,
but ho can’t. Who ever heard of anyone recovering
anything from a doctor—or a lawyer ? By the way, we
wonder who that doctor was ? Eh ?
The London World is generally considered to
boa high-toned paper. Hero, now, is an item written
by “Atlas” (Mr. Edmund Yatos) which is, in ir.s way,
quite a literary curiosity:—“ H.E.H. the Prince of
Wales has had a pretty little Una boat built for him at
Cowes. She has been named the Olivette, and is
painted white, with a red and blue stripe round her. It
is said that H.R.H. enjoys sailing about in small craft
at Cowes. As these Una boats are about the most
difficult of any sort of small craft to handle, it is to be
hoped all will go well with this pretty little craft." It’s
lucky we’ve only got to travel 16,000 miles to learn how
to write like this. If it were a longer distance, we
might think twice before undertaking the journey!
One morning, many years ago —it may have
been in the reign of Macquarie—the sun rose bright
and clear, shedding his golden light on the waters and
tree-clothed banks of the Hunter; the birds rejoiced,
and filled the air with songs —but enough. A leaning
gum-tree, and a man bound to it, his back all bare —a
hardened, wicked, and punishment-deserving being:
but still a man. Near him other men, one of whom
handles the murderous cat. The blows rain on the
poor wretch’s flesh, and cause him to shriek and groan.
It is finished, and he ceases. From the verandah of
the comfortable homestead, all smothered in vines and
bright roses, yet wet with the morning dew, comes the
sweet and gentle voice of a woman—of a woman nursing
a child—"Ob, please, do give him some more: it makes
the baby laugh."
A lively reporter went up into the gallery of a
certain Biouse of Parliament (we, of course, bar our
own) to take his turn, in rather an hilarious condition.
Avery prominent, but rather prosy, member was on
his legs at the time, and, after the scribe had sat him-
self down, he wrote a few lines to the chief of the stall,
but, in throwing it to him, it fell over the rail right on
the bald head of the member who was " up." So he
stooped down, picked up the note, and read as follows :
—“ For God’s sake lend us six pence. I can’t report
that blank old fool without a drink to stiffen me up.”
The note was returned to the chief by the messenger,
and the last we heard of that reporter was, that he was
busily engaged in editing a paper in the sugar-cane
country (N.Q ) where half the subscriptions are paid in
rum, and the other halt not at all.
It will be remembered that, some few weeks
since, we drew attention to the mysterious ship which
has been on the stocks in Darling Harbour, as far back
as extends the memory of the oldest inhabitant. Well,
our readers will be pleased to hear that “ the building
of the ship” is progressing in a highly satisfactory
manner. A stalwart youth of several summers is now
engaged slapping the white lead on to her stern, while
a man drives at least ten nails an hour into the bul-
warks. We don’t know whether any caulking is to be
done, but we think not, since no effort has been made
in that line during the past thirty years. The point is
—what is she intended for ? Our Filibustering idea is
now pretty well exploded, so the only guess we have
left concerning this mystic vessel, is that she will
sooner or later be turned into a tea-garden.
The papers are polite to each other in Auckland.
A paper called the New Zealand Free Press has
three leaders about the proprietor of another local
journal. From the text of these effusions,
we imagine there must have been a slight tiff (nothing
much) between the two editors. Here is a mild
extract, which seems to point to this conclusion: —
"The mean, contemptible snivel tried to have at a (sic)
honorable means employed to maintain a family, would
have justified the severest kicking ‘ the brute ’ (to use
his own words) could have received; but the trouble of
cleaning a boot after the kicking would scarcely warrant
the operation." The editor of the N.Z. Free Press is
forcible, if not original, and his peculiar style would
suit the Holt Howl all to pieces. We
should be happy to give him a line to the reverend
conductor of that pious print,
A good while ago, a certain gentleman, well-
known in legislative circles, was presented by some of
his admirers with a handsome gold chronometer. On
the evening of the presentation, he and a few of his
cronies indulged in the pastime of “ knocking round "
the town. The next morning, when the legislative
gentleman awoke, he found himself in a churchyard at
Newtovn, sans hat, sans stick, sans coin, sans every-
thing. Pulling himself together, he drove in a cab to
the police station, and told them all about it. A few
hours later, a detective calls at his house, and hands
him his presentation repeater. "Why, where did
you find ftp" enquired the gifted orator, raising an
aching head from his pillow. The detective coughed
behind his hand—“ln St. Andrew’s Cathedral, just by
the Dean’s pew,” he replied. That man is not a de-
tective now. He has risen in the perfesb.
Seme fellow, who has evidently been pestering
a girl, sends us some verses about her. which disclose,
in a remarkably ingenuous manner, the true state of
the case. Listen :
“ If e’re I call, I’m sure to find
A rival crowd in tow.
She flirts with them .- to me she says,
* You do annoy me so.’ "
He ends thus :
“ You’d like to hear some more, no doubt;
But, dear no, not for Joe.
Now, do not press me—if yon do.
You will annoy me so."
We’re not likely to annoy you, old fellow, but we must
say we sympathise with the young lady. Let us know
on what she chiefly bases her objection to you. Is the
trouble pimples or poetry ? Probably the latter—or
both.
At an enquiry held last week by the Inspector
of Charities, concerning some trouble amongst the
officers of Bathurst hospital. Dr. Bassett, one of the
medicos attached to the institution, according to the
Free Press, made the following astounding state-
ment “ The committee had been informed by Miss
Keys, the nurse, that the nurses in Sydney Infirmary
had been in the habit of consulting together and criti-
cising prescriptions of medical men attending patients,
and as a result of their consultations they omitted to
give certain patients the medicine prescribed for them,
and substituted, at their discretion, the medicine pre-
scribed for other patients by other doctors. And Miss
Keys had said she would do the same here, and in the
absence of sufficient confidence in the medical men she
would substitute her own medicine, and, as a fact, in
one instance she had done so. This was why he had
declined to put his prescriptions on the bed-boards of
patients." If this be true, it is quite plain that there
are hospitals other than that at Bathurst which require
attention.
“ Coming events cast tbeir shadows before,”
and perhaps the most noticeable shadow in connection
with Mother Shipton’s prophecy, re the end of the
world and 1881, was apparent in Parramatta last week.
Mr. Cyrns Edgar Puller, a printer and publisher of the
Mercury, intimated to his subscribers that it was his
intention to disburse £IOO in prizes among them, to be
competed for athletically. Now, in this age of small-
pox and tramways, we are not much given to surprises,
but Cyrus Edgar has certainly knocked us a little out
of time in this matter. In these glorious times of libel
law and contempt of court, it is a matter for serious
consideration for most journalists how they are to get
a square meal. Now, if this startling proclamation had
been made before the libel suit was instituted against
John Ferguson, we shouldn’t have been taken aback so
much, because then we could imagine that Parramatta
journalists didn’t come within the jurisdiction of the
libel law; but when we see £IOO given by one, whilst
the other is being tried for libel, we really don’t know
what to make of our “brother” journalists of the
historic borough.
The N.Z. Liberty ia a funny paper. In its
Notice to Correspondents, it says :—“ They [the corre-
spondentsj must be gentlemen holding some position,
and have no strong likes or dislikes.” How can a man
ho a gentleman unless he has, at any rate, strong dislikes
—a hatred for snobs, bad grammar, and —“ art-critics,”
for instance ? We mnst not be hard on Liberty, how.
ever, for the editor evidently likes us. Ha not only, as
a rule, acknowledges our pars., but says, in speaking of
Mr. Eathbone’s Auckland paper: “ The most amusing
part of the Observer’s paragraph is that where the
editor classes his production in the same street with
the Sydney Bulletin. This is hot if you like.” This
is complimentary—and, what is more, it’s about as true
as most things are now adays. Can we do less, then,
than say that the Liberty is a charming little paper,
and wish it all our success and its own, too ?
The London World, of July 20, and Truth,
of July 21, give special prominence to an advt. of a
projected new company, capital £150,000, to take over
and work the Empress gold mine, the Emperor gold
mine, the Homeward Bound gold mine, and the Cor-
nishman’s Claim, at Kiandra, N.S.W. Mr. Phillip
Davies is Consulting and Mining Engineer, and Mr.
Fred. B. Gipps (of Kenny Hill fame, we pre.
sume) has reported. It is Mr. Davies, however, who
estimates the Empress mine to yield £540,721, and the
Emperor group to yield £463,478. We reckon Mr.
Phillip is slightly inaccurate in these figures. We
shouldjputithe total at some 3s 9Jd more for the yield of
the combined mines, ourselves. The plan of operations
is to be alluvial washing. Now, we do believe that if the
soil of all N.S. Wales were puddled, it would yield
countless millions. Our only difficulty is that we don’t
exactly know what the operation would cost.
He was reporting on colonial produce in the
neighbourhood of Tork-street and humouring a whole-
sale fruiterer as that portly personage stood at his door.
The merchant smiled reflectively. " I read a capital
story the other day,” he said, “of a man who bought a
barrel of apples, and found they got worse as he got to
the bottom of the barrel, and ” The reporter smil-
ingly interrupted : “ That reminds me. There was once
a man who wrote a most eloquent article on a particular
brand of oranges, which had such a beneficial effect upon
the sale of the fruit that the proprietor presented to
the writer, as a mark of the estimation in which he
held his literary abilities, with a couple of cases ”
“ Jim,” roared the vendor, to an unseen hireling,
“ bring down two cases o’ them O.V.’s for this gentle-
man, and look sharp.” . . . About a quarter of an
hour later, that reporter might have been seen stagger-
ing down Tork-street with a case of’O.Y.’s under each
arm, and a smile upon his lips that caused him to look
like a water-melon with a slice out. It was only when
he went into a familiar pub., to barter some of the
oranges for rum, that he discovered that they all been
taken out of the dust-hole.
Just to show those “Wars ted Britishers” what
Australian talent and pluck can do, Alfred, it is said, is
about to haul out a revised edition of the Old Testa,
ment. It will be printed on the cheapest paper, and in
the cheapest manner possible, and in order that its
readers may bo able to grip any given par at a moment’s
notice it will be broken up and headed thuswise—
‘‘Chaos Criticised," ‘‘Creation Unmasked,” ‘‘Our
First Families,” “Scandal in High Life,” “Startling
Disclosures Respecting the Adam Household,” “ Splen-
did Snake Story," “An Apple Evicts the Pair," “An
Able-bodied Editor Caned in Open Daylight,” “ Where
Were the Police," “Heavy Rain up Northward,”
“ Sodom, Gomorrah, and Three Other Cities De-
stroyed by a Shower of Brimstone,” “ Full Particu-
lars,” “Jacob Eingbarks Esau," “Who Stole the
Donkey?” "Balaam —Or the Man in the White Hat,”
“The Samson Scandal,” “Philistine Town Hall Palls
Down, and Kills all Below —Except the Contractors,"
“Later News,” “ Potiphar versus Potiphar," “Tooth-
ful Troubles,” “Read Third Edition,” “Canvassers
Wanted for the Country,” “Ads. Inserted at Usual
Prices,” “Roll Up I Roll Up!”
In a magnificent sketch on the Derby Day, the
representative of the Evening Family Herald has the
following little social item: —“ The grand-stand pre-
seated a very showy appearance. Its ‘ rosebud garden
of girls ’ was mixed with the more soberly clad mascu-
linity, and the ensemble was in every way pleasing.”
What better kind of writing does the world require
than this? The appearance of the grand-stand was
“ showy,” and " the ensemble was pleasing.” Very good;
but isn’t it just a little like another masterly essay by
the same hand in the same paper?—which informs an
enraptured public that “ fencing wire is still in good
repute, and moderate sales are reported at lately esta-
blished rates. Cement has further suffered, and our
quotation of yesterday could hardly be maintainel.
Teas as yet have had no notice, and we must wait the
opening of the month for a resumption of business on
anything like a reasonable scale.” We knowjhow diffi-
cult it is to diversify a style, be the writer ever so bril-
liant, and therefore we have much pleasure in compli-
menting our evening contemporary upon the really
brilliant character of the literary work we have quoted.
The thing is : will they sell us any of it P and, if s 5, at
how much a pound ?
Her age was 11, and she had two brothers, who
were about 9 between them. There was a Chinese burr-
cutter employed at the station, and he camped on the
run. The news had come from Sydney respecting the
importation of small-pox by the Chinese, so little Polly,
imagining that they must all be infected, gazed upon
their Chinaman (who was in the bloom of health —if
ever a Chinaman is that way) with wonder in her
heart. At last, she became sure he must possess an
antidote; so one day when the man had gone to his
work, our little friend, in company with her brothers,
swooped down upon John's camp, and proceeded to
search for the mystic elixir. After much rummaging,
they got together in a basin, some sugar, flour, his
stock of opium, mustard, tartaric acid and carbonate of
soda. These Polly mixed together into a thick paste
and proceeded to feed her brothers with spoonsful of
the magic mixture. In the middle of the dispensirg
John returned for some tools, and the manner in which
he quoted from Confucius, and the dialect of “Little
Canton,” was a caution. Latest advices have the
children still sleeping, and the Chinaman still swearing.
When either they wake up, or he leaves off, we shall
print an extra edition.
The Austrian Band drag had a break down near
Gympie at early morn, so the gallant musicians hied
them to the nearest pub., and demanded breakfast. The
landlord immediately killed all his fowls, bought up the
stock of the local batcher, and at 8 o’clock hoisted on
to the table two hot joints, a cold round of beef, 103
sausages, 15 tins of salmon, a hundred weight of half-
cooked sweet potatoes, and a Bathurst tongue he had
been saving for his kanaka. The gong sounded and the
tuneful barbarians fell to. After one glance at hisl
guests, the landlord went to the back of the house ancF
hid, trembling, behind a cask. In about 15 minutes he
heard a hoarse voice proceed from the dining-room. It
was a voice, even as the voice of Heller, and it stated
the maddening monosyllable—“ More.” Then, in des-
peration the boniflce tore over to the store, got five
bushels of maize, half a tin of dog-biscuit, and seven
large pumpkins. Bearing these with the aid of trusty
retainers into the banqueting chamber, he set them
down upon the floor, and bawling “desert” in a loud tone,
fled precipitately When the band, on their
return from Gympie, called at his house for refresh-
ment, they found the shutters up, and an inscription
on the door —“Closed in consequence of a dearth in
the family.”
The M‘Glory-Boobe fracas culminated in an affair
at the police court, and J. J. was fined in the sum of £5.
It appears that the author of the verses “ The Cock-
roach and the Hen,” which gave such umbrage to Roche
—who is an ex-E.C. priest—were written by no less a
person than Duncan Francis Campbell Moodie. The
Adelaide Bulletin (of which Mr. Roche is a pro-
prietor) has an article on the police court proceedings,
which bears the gentle heading “Scurvy Reptiles.”
Here are a few gems from it: —“ These verses were the
execution of a literary garbage-monger The
public eye cannot see the straddle-legged bully step into
the witness-box. . . . Still less can the public ear
hear the dastard bully gajfaw insinuations whose malice-
tipped concealedmeaning is intended to sully the fair farre
of a lady, to the members of whose family this coarse
heavy-featured slanderer is under the deepest obligations.
This contemptible ink-ejecting cuttlefish of a
scribbler must have been inspired and probably paid I y
a more interested cur, who had all the will, though not
the ability, to be a viper." These are only a sprinkling
of the Billingsgate epithets with which the artic.e
abounds. And this is what, in Adelaide, is called jour-
nalism. When will these people learn that the sting
lies sometimes in satire, sometimes in sarcasm, often in
ridicule, but never in abuse ? When will these peculiar
gentlemen become alive to this, we wonder ? Probably
about the time they learn to spell.


SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
Ballarat Hunt Club September 17.
Murrurundi September 21.
Sydney Amateur Turf Club September 17.
Adelaide September 24.
Kensington Park September 24.
Maryborough & Oarisbook (Vic ) T. C...September2B,29.
Me Ibourne Hunt Club October 1.
Adelaide Hunt Club October 1.
Adelaide October 6, 7.
Hawkes’ Bay (N.Z.) Racing Club October 12.
Wollongong October 12,13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13, 15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Kensington Park October 22.
Victoria R.C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (Vic.) November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8,10,11.
Sneensland T. C November 9, 10.
[urrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24.
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
Wellington Racing Club (N.Z.) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30
Southland (N.Z.) J, C. Meeting ....December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
Williamstown (Vic.) December 26.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 27.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 28 ; Jan. 1, 2.
V.E.C. Champion January 1.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) January 1.
AQUATICS.
Elliott v Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
Melbourne Rowing Club Umphelby
Challenge Cup September 21.
Melbourne Rowing Club, Challenge Pairs.. September 21.
Electric Telegraph Annual Regatta October 1.
Ross v. Hanlan (Toronto) October.
Sportsman Challenge Cup, 200 guineas—New-
easi le-on-Tyne October.
All Schools’ Race—Mayor’s Trophy October 5.
M.E.C. Trial Pours October 8.
N.S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October 8,15.
Holdsworth, Gardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
PEDEBTRIANISM,
King’s School Athletic Club Meeting September 17.
Hunter’s Hill Athletic Club Sports October 1.
Brennan v. Goodburn, 48 hours Go-as-you-
please, £5O, Osborne Hall, Porbes...October 5.
BICYCLING.
Six days’ Tournament concluded September 17.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Somerset is first favourite for the V.R.C.
Derby.
Gloucester has been purchased by Mr. Forrester
for 303 guineas.
Emulation, the winner of the Three-year-old
Plate, was sold to Mr. Archer for £6O.
Sardonyx has been backed by his owner to win
the V.E.C. Derby and Cup at 10,000 to 250.
The Albury footballers won three matches con-
secutively at Albury during the last season.
The racehorse Elastic was purchased at auction
on Monday, by Mr. W. Forrester, for 300 guineas.
The great Steeplechaser, Sussex, has been sold
to Mr. Umphelby, for 1300 guineas, for stud purposes.
A very successful kangaroo drive was held
lately at Myall Creek, resulting in a total of 437 slain
and scalped.
The right to use the Domain as a cricket ground
will be restored to the Association, but with some
restrictions.
The Yale-Harvard boat race took place Ist July,
and resulted in a victory for tbs Tale crew by 2 lengths,
in 22 min. 13 sec.
Hillier won the one mile and twenty-five miles
bicycle amateur champion races at Leicester, in July.
No relative of our Hillyar.
The committee of fhe Rowing Association have
decided that the race for the Mayor’s Cup, on sth Oct.,
shall be open to all schools.
The South Australian Amateur Rowing Associ-
ation have decided to hold a grand regatta in the third
week of December on the Torrens’ Dam.
The foot-race at Inverell, between Thomas and
Collins, 200 yards, for £22, resulted in an easy victory
for Collins, who won by more than his start.
A handball match takes place on Thursday, the
15th instant, at the Elizaheth-street court, for £2O
a-side, A. Dillon playing against Farrell and Welsh.
A match for the amateur championship of the
Thames took place on July 18, resulting in a victory for
Mr. Jefferson Lowndes, of Hertford College, Oxford.
Mr. H. G. Turner has been nominated for the
office of President of the Victorian Bowing Association,
vice Hon. W. J. Clarke, who is about to visit England.
A cricket match at Balmain on Saturday, be-
tween the Kingsborough and Touug Prince Clubs, re-
sulted in a victory for the former by 4 wickets and 3 runs.
The prize-shooting for September of the Tor-
fedo Eifle Club resulted as follows: —First prize
rivate Campbell ,• second. Private Prior; third. Private
Asprey.
Trickett tried one of his new paper shells at
Troy, New York, June 24, pulling a mile or two. He
was delighted with the craft, and started forthwith to
Ottawa.
The American Hop Bitters Company offered a
prize of 3000 dollars for a single scull regatta of four
miles, to he rowed about the middle of August in
America.
The racehorse Waxy was sold on Monday to
Mr. F. Wentworth for £2200. The new owner has
already backed him to a large extent to win the Mel-
bourne Cup.
The master and members of the Findon (Vic.)
harriers have subscribed 100 guineas for a gold cup, to
be run for by the hunters at Caulfield, at the October
meeting of the V. A.T.C.
Trickett could not be better treated in Canada
if he bad beaten Hanlan. By the way, Hanlan was
training Trickett for his race with Eiley, the result of
which we have not yet heard.
To stop a horse from bucking (says an American
writer), you have only to take a light piece of rope,
pass it round the top jaw of the animal, cross it in the
mouth, and secure it to the neck.
The Walker Whisky Trophy is the first of a
series of trophies, to be presented by various mercan-
tile firms, for rowing, cricket, and football. This is
good for sport—if not for business.
The new grand-stand at the Association Cricket
Ground is to accommodate 1600 visitors, and will cost
£BOOO. It is to be finished by—well, three men have
been engaged digging the foundation.
A bicycle race at the Exhibition Ground, Ade-
laide, on Saturday, excited great interest. Over 40
bicyclists gathered in front of the General Post Office,
and went in procession to the grounds.
The Spring sports meeting of the Hunter’s Hill
Amateur Athletic Club will be held on Saturday,
October Ist. Entries for handicaps close on 17th
September, and for other events on 24th September.
The race meeting 1 at Kensington Park (Vie.) is
to consist of a Handicap Hurdle Bace, Handicap Gal-
loway Bace, Trotting Bace, Selling Bace, Handicap
Steeplechase, concluding with a Handicap Plat Bace.
| At the Sydney Hunt Club meet at Parramatta,
last week, the hounds broke away in the Park. The
assistant whipper-in gave chase, and was lodged in a
creek with seven feet of water in it. He got all the fat
of the dripping.
According to the Forbes Times, it is more
than likely that a match will yet be made between the
rival peds., Aplitt and Watson. Arrangements are
proceeding, and if the match is completed, it will be
for £5OO a-side.
Boss and Hanlan have been “ backing and fill-
ing ” about a match for some months. Boss is willing
to row for £2OO aside, but Hanlan, as usual, wants the
stakes to be £1000; he says he has his title as well as
his money to lose.
Mr. Edward Moles, of Burrawang, drew Trump
Yoss in Tattersall’s Consultation on the Hawkesbury
Handicap, Mr. Thomas Love, of Kiama, was another
lucky taker of the first prize in one of the Metro-
politan consultations.
The maiden half-mile of the S.A.A.C. will pro-
bably draw together one of the finest fields of the
meeting, which promises to be very successful, judging
from the number of peds. who train daily on the Asso-
ciation Cricket Ground.
Mr. J. R. Fairfax, ex-commodore of the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron, has given £lOO for prizes for
the coming season. The prizes will be raced for in
January next. The opening day of the season is fixed
for Saturday, October 8
In a billiard match at Margate, on the 18th
July, between W. Cook and S. W. Stanley, the former
won by 431 points, the game being 1000 up. During the
course of the game, Cook made a break of H 4, including
137 consecutive spot strokes.
Hearn will probably be challenged shortly by
George White, a younger brother of the man who was
so easily beaten in the race for the N.Z. championship.
Young White is a bigger man than his brother, than
whom he is said to be faster.
At Pittsburg (D.S.), on 16th July, Maude S.
trotted a mile in 2 min. 10J sec., the fastest time on
record. On the 28th July she did three consecutive
mile heats, the first in 2 min. 12 sec., second in 2 min.
13£ sec., and, final, in 2 min. 12 sec.
An inquiry by the committee of the A.J.C.,
into the riding of Plastic in the Squatters’ Handicap,
at Bandwick, led to the disqualification for twelve
months of the horse, the rider, and the owner. The
evidence, if any, was taken privately.
The sales of privileges at the Northern Jockey
Club meeting were as follow Gates, Thurston, £136
10s.; grand-stand booth, F. Edwards, £25; No. 1
booth, W. Bussell, £10; No. 2 booth, Mat. Scott, £9;
cake-stalls and games of chance, £6 17s. 6d.
The entries for the Association Regatta, Oct. 8
and 15, will be received on Friday evening, 30th Sept.,
when intending competitors must declare their weight
and the colours they intend to row under. Seven days’
time is allowed for protests as to qualifications.
Mr. Edward Underwood, of Quirindi, has pur-
chased a game cock and three hens from the Duke of
Beaufort’s poultry yards. They were brought here by
a groom, named Edward Day, and are about the finest
specimens of their breed ever brought into the colony.
The English team of cricketers propose to play
in Sydney and Melbourne immediately after the inter-
colonials. This probably means four “ doings ” for the
Britishers —Victorian Eleven, combined team at Mel-
bourne, N.S. Wales Eleven, and combined team at
Sydney.
A 100 yards’ foot race, for .£5, between R. E.
Donaldson and M. O’Keefe, came off on the Bth instant
at Fisher Park, Grafton, and resulted in a win for
Donaldson by about 4 yards. The time was very fast,
and Donaldson may yet cause some trouble among
metropolitan sprint-runners.
At Boston, U.S., on July 4, a great regatta was
held on the Charles Eiver in the presence of 30,000 to
40,000 spectators. In the professional single scull race,
George H. Hosmer came in first. Ten Eyck second, and J
Lee third. The distance was three miles, and the
winner’s time 21min. 16sec.
Gloucestershire scored only 42 against Lanca-
shire, who made 236, Mr. A. N. Hornby being the prin-
cipal contributor thereto with 61. For the losers, W.
G. Grace scored 14, E. M. Grace 8, and Midwinter 0.
This is unusual for Mid., who has been doing very well
since his return to England.
The first meeting of the Maitland Gun Club was
held at Dagworth on Saturday afternoon. The Mem-
bers’ Handicap was won by W. Graham, four birds ; A.
Levien, three birds, second; E. Searles, third. In the
Muff Handicap, F. Faulkner, with four, was first; and
Herbert Garrick, with three, second.
At a late meeting of Tattersall’s Club, the fol-
lowing resolution was passed:—“ Any person, being a
member of this club, who wishes to ply the avocation
of a bookmaker, must go up for re-election.” We don’t
know who drafted this rule, but, judging from the ele-
gance of the wording, we should say an ex-cabman.
The programme of the procession of Club boats
to open the rowing season, on Saturday, Ist October, is
as follows :—Meet in Lavender Bay—form in two divi-
sions—row round Fort Denison into Farm Cove, round
Goat Island into Lavender Bay. The Bowing Associa-
tion will provide a steamer to follow with members and
friends.
St. Stephen’s Institute C.C. held annual meet-
ing on Tuesday, 6th instant. The officers for the ensu-
ing season are —President, E. W. Molesworth; vice-
presidents, W. Wilson and F. L. Barker; treasurer, J.
M’Kern; secretary, C. H. E. Wyatt. G M Kern re-
ceived Ist eleven batting trophy, and A. Chapman the
bowling trophy.
The four-oared race arranged for August 5, on
the Danube, at'Vienna, between a local crew and a
crew from the Cornell University, was to be rowed over
a three-mile course with a turn. The prize offered is a
handsome trophy valued at £250, and each member of
the winning crew will receive a beautifully designed
commemorative medal.
The postponed regatta at Toronto took place on
the Bth instant. Trickett took part in one of the heats,
but came in last of all, not being in anything like con-
dition. On the 10th a pair-oar contest took place be-
tween Boulay and Hamm, and Trickett and Gandar,
resulting in a win for the former pair. Hanlan did not
take part in the regatta.
Iroquois’ victory in the English Derby has given
an impetus to flat-racing in the States. The Americans
now propose to give £5OOO as a stake to bo run for annu-
ally at the Coney Island Jockey Club meeting. It is to
be for three-year-old colts and fillies; one mile and
three-quarters; weight, Bst 61b; fillies to be allowed
61b, Here’s a chance for Mr. Long and Mr. White.
Jupp, the English cricketer, had a benefit on
the Oval, on Saturday, July 16. £450 was realised.
The match was North v. South, the former winning in
one innings by 91 runs. Ulyett, 92; Selby, 80 ; Bates,
93; and Hornby, 47; were the principal scorers for the
North —while Penn, 68; Lucas, 13 and 10; Hearne, 22
and 21; were the chief contributors to the South score.
Wrangler’s victory in the Steeplechase, on Satur-
day, surprised no one more than the owner—Mr. For-
rester. He put a “ fiver ” on him on account of the
good position he held the second time round. The
“books" wanted to go on, but the owner,-thought £5
was enough to lose over it. This was Wrangler’s first
steeplechase. His victory is due principally to Sam
Harding’s judicious riding.
A six days’ go-as-you-please for “ladies” is on
the tapis in Sydney. Good heavens! However, we
suppose that only women who wish to be considered
“ fast ” will enter. “ Lasting ” boots will be used. Mr.
Henpecker is of opinion that not many women will
enter for a go-as-you-please. He says they generally go
as they please. It is not true that Lady Augustus
Loftus is going to enter—the hippodrome.
A cricket match on Saturday at Eveleigh,
between the Hero of Waterloo and the Eedfern Cam-
bridge Clubs, resulted in a victory for the former by 26
runs. The scores being Hero, 76—with A. Pople, 36,
Avis, 11, Hopkins, 10, as principal scorers. Eedfern
Cambridge, 50—T. Wilson, 22, being the only deuble
figure, Dibley and Hopkins bowled well for the Hero
1 C. C.; Evans, Pre ott, and;Wilson, for the Cambridge.
At a meeting of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club,
on Wednesday opening, 7th instant, the following were
proposed as office-bearers for election at the annual
meeting;—Commodore, J. H, Want; vice-commodore.
Dr, Milford; treasurer, R. Biunie ; hon. secretary, C.
Brown ; auditors, E. P. Simpson and A. Tooth. The
following dates were fixed for club races :—First class,
sth November; second class, 12th November; third
class, 19th November.
The backers of Hesperian for the Melbourne Cup
may be classed among the unlucky ones. Mr. Mayo’s
disqualification will doubtless be endorsed by the V.R.C.,
and Hesperian will not be allowed to start. There is
some talk of the nomination being incorrect. If that
be the case, all wagers with Hesperian are drawn. This
is the only chance the backers have, the disqualification
making no difference in the wagering. It is one of those
anomalous betting cases where the backers may lose
but cannot possibly win.
At the amateur athletic championship meeting,
at Birmingham, on Saturday, July 16, L. E. Myers, the
American champion amatenr sprint runner, was fourth
in the 100 yards race, which was won by W. P. Phillips,
in 10 l-Saec. E. E. Merrill was second in the seven
miles walking match, which was won by J. W. Raby
in 54min. 48jec.—splendid time. Merrill was thoroughly
beaten, and fainted before the journey was finished.
The quarter-mile race was won by Myers in 48 3-sseo.
the best amateur time on record.
Wheatear’s performances arc as follow: —A.J.C.
Autumr, 20th April, won Maiden Stakes, li mile, 6st.
111 b., time, 2 min. 15 sec.; second in Substitute Stakes,
6 furlongs, Bst. 71b., won by Somerset, Bst. 71b., time 1
min 16 6-10 sec.; won Nursery Handicap, 6 furlongs,
Bst. 121 b., time 1 min. 17 4-10 sec.; A.J.C. Spring, won
Derby, 1 j mile, time 2 min. 52 sec.; second in Craven
Plate, 1J mile, 7st. 91b., won by Welington, 9st. 41b.,
time 2 min. 13 4-10 sec ; won Members' Handicap, 1
mile and a furlong, 9st. 31b.; time 1 min. 57 8-10 sec.
Following is a list of the winnings at the late
A.J.C. Meeting J. Mayo, £969; C. QBa dook, £568 ;
Captain Osborne, £544; R, Rouse, £495; F. Went-
worth, £487 14s. ; T. Chirnside, £247; P. Brennan,
£207; Hon. James White, £l9l 4s ; W. Forrester,
£175; G. M'Donuoll, £146; Charles Watt, £l3B ; H. C.
Dangar, £120; T. Ivory, £120; P. Glennister, £lOO ; J.
Kerr, £lOO ; Hurtle Fisher, £lOO ; C. T. Roberts, £100;
E. De Mestre. £9B 25,; Hon. J. P. Bell, £2O; W. L.
Addis, £2O ; J. A. Dallas, £39 ; J. Leeke, £2O ; and J.
Yeomans, £2O. Total, £5025.
Hesperian’s principal performances are as fol-
low :—Hawkesbury, ;25th August—Won County Purse,
11 mile, 6st. 91b; won Hawkesbury Grand Handicap,
H mile, 6st —time. 2min. 38 4-lOseo. A.J.C. Spring
Meeting, 7th September—Second for Metropolitan,
2 miles, sst. 121 b, won by The Pontiff, 63t41b-time,
3min. 31 6 lOsec; won Sydney Handicap, 11 mile, 7at.
61b.—time, 2n>in. 401seo. Newcastle, January meet-
ing.—Won Free Handicap, If mile, Bst. 101 b.—time,
2min. 16seo. A.J C. Spring Meeting, 1881 —Won Metro-
politan, 2 miles, 7st. 81t>—time, 3min. 32 4 lOsec.
The sculling match, from Charity Point to the
The Brothers, between Rush and Power—the former
giving £2OO to. his opponent’s £loo—came off on Mon-
day afternoon, and resulted in an easy win for Power.
The water was rough. Rush went away with the lead,
which he maintained for the first mile; then Power
headed him, and kept his place comfortably to the
finish. The time was 23min. 50}sec. There are many
who think that the roughness of the water interfered
with Rush’s chance, and on the settling night Rush
challenged Power for another match, for £2OO a-side.
The challenge was accepted, and the men will row on
Saturday next —when a closer contest will, it is to he
hoped, take place.
The beat sculler in Australia is—let us see.
Edwards beat Trickett, Trickett beat Power, Power
beat Rush, Rush beat Laycock, Rush beat Pearce,
Pearce beat W. Trickett, Trickett beat Rush, Trickett
beat Power, Power heat Rush Stop; wipe that
out, and let us commence again. Rush beat Pearce,
Rush beat Laycock, Laycock beat Pearce, Pearce heat
Rush, Edwards beat Rush, Pearce beat Edwards—the
best sculler, therefore, is Stop, we’re mixed; some
Walker Whisky, please. After mature cogitation, we
arrive at two couclusious—firstly, that “Slummer " and
Lynch should at once row a match for the champion-
ship—secondly, that cockflghting is the only true and
genuine sport, because—well, dear public, “as if you
didn’t kuow," now.
A billiard match, for .£2OO aside, took place on
Thursday evening, the Bth instant, at the Royal
Exchange Hotel, between J. Byrne, of Victoria, and
James, of Sydney. Byrne led up to the second hnn-
dred, when James, by some clever breaks, passed him,
and led into the fourth hundred. At 371 they were
together, and at the adjournment the game stood—
Byrne 411, James 394. Byrne gradually increased his
lead, and at 630 was a hundred points ahead. Then
James made some good breaks, overhauled his oppo-
nent, and reached 705 while Byrne was at 681. Byruo at
this point made a splendid break of 59, and had all the
best of the game to the end, reaching the 1000 with
James at 878. The play was not first-class throughout,
though the match proved very exciting.
A most interesting billiard match took place on
Saturday evening at iPerkins’ Royal Exchange Hotel,
between Joseph Byrne, the champion of Victoria, and
Mons. Rudolphe. The match was 1000 up, English
game, for £lOO a-side, and it resulted after an exciting
contest, in favour of Byrne, by 35 points. Rudolphe
had the best of the game at the start, and played a
splendid game with difficult “ caroms.’’ At 400 he was
125 ahead of Byrne, and the match looked a moral for
him. After the adjournment, however, Byrne gradually
fained on his opponent, and at 845 he passed him, and
y dint of plucky play, maintained a close lead to the
finish. The game was very open, even till the last stroke,
and there is no doubt that Rudolphe, with a little
more practice at the English game, could easily hold his
own in future matches with his victorious opponent.
The late Eandwick Meeting cannot be con-
sidered to have been a backers' meeting. Hesperian’s
victory was a genuine throw-in for the books; and as a
rule, in the other races, the favourites were beaten.
Trump Yoss’s Hawkesbury victory was a severe blow I
to the ring, and it needed such a coup as Hesperian’s
to put the books straight. Looking over the results of
the last few years’ racing, backers have hod some good
chances. The double wins of Chester and Grand
Flaneur hit the ring severely; Progress, for the last
Sydney Cup, was as great a favourite as Trump Yoss
was for the late Hawkesbury Handicap. On these
events the metallicians sustained severe losses, which
in every case were honourably met. They are having a
gay time of it now, and if an outsider can appropriate
the Melbourne Cup, the “ scoop-iu ” will be unprece-
dented.
The Belvidere C.C. held its annual meeting on
the Bth instant. 22 matches were played last season by
the first eleven, 13 of which were won, 5 drawn, and
4 lost. W. D. Mair wins the trophy for batting, with
an average of 17.9 runs per innings, and the trophy for
aggregate with a total of 305 runs; and L.Lindeman
takes the trophy for bowling with an average of 5 1 runs
per innings. J. Richardson wins the special prize for
highest individual score, and C. Richardson takes the
special prize for fielding. The following are office-
bearers for the ensuing season Patron, Mr. P. H.
Dangar; president, Hon. J. B. Watt; vice-presidents.
Messrs. H. H. Brown, R. G. Higgins, J R. Street, and
J. L Adams; delegates, S. A. Lindeman and H. A.
Holden; joint hon. secretaries, H. A. Holdm and C.
Lindeman; treasurer, S. A. Lindeman; committee, J,
Richardson, J. Cooper, J. S. Spur way, A. Zollner, S.
M’Coy, and J, Bush.
A.J.C. Spring Meeting results : —Third day.—
Threc-year-old-plate, 1 mile; Emulation 1, Stilton 2;
time, Imin. 47sec. Suburban Handicap, seven fnr.
longs: Primrose 1, Surry 2, Julian 3; time. Imin. 30
2-10 sec. Craven Plate, 1 mile and a quarter: Wellington
1, Wheatear 2, Etna 3; time, 2miu. 13 4 lOsec. A J.C.
Mares’ Produce Stakes, 1 mile and a quarter: Sardonyx
1, Monmouth 2, Gudarz 3; time, 2min. 135-10 sec. Syd-
ney Handicap, 1 mile and a half: Waxy 1, Zulu 2, War-
hawk 3; time, 2min. 39 8-lOsec. Fourth day.—Hurdle
Plate, 2 miles : Safeguard 1, Fair Maiden '2; time, 4min.
43sec. Members’ Handicap, 1 mile and a furlong
Wheatear 1, Primrose 2, Kerolite 3; time, 1 min. 57
8-lOsec. Randwick Plate, 3 miles: Wellington 1, Mar-
mora 2; time, 6min llsec. Waverley Handicap, 1 mile
and three-quarters: Creswick 1, Warhawk 2, Zulu 3;
time, 3min. 6 6-lOsec Steeplechase, 3 miles : Wrangler
l,|Abdullah 2, Jupiter 3; time, 7miu. llsec. Free Han-
dicap, 1 mile and a quarter : Queensberry 1, Orient 2,
Gipsy Cooper 3; time, 2min. 12sec.
The final contest for the Walker Whisky
trophies was rowed on Friday afternoon, on the Parra-
matta River, over the full course, from Charity Point
to the Brothers, a distance of 3 miles 330 yards. The
competitors were H. Pearce, J. J. Power, E. C. Laycock
and B. Edwards. A great struggle was anticipated be-
tween Laycock and Pearce, while not a few thought
that Edwards would upset the pot. A good start was
effected, Power rowing the fastest stroke, and soon
taking the lead. A mile out, Laycock and Pearce load-
ing, were hard at it, the “bushranger” having a slight
advantage. Laycock steadily increased his lead, whilst
the gap between Pearce and Power widened, Edwards
being out of it after the first mile. Laycock kept his
lead easily, and rowed leisurely past the flag, a length
ahead of Pearce, who beat Power by three or four
lengths, Edwards having given up. The time was 23
min. 6 sec. Laycock showed somewhat better form,
and is said to have been in much better health than on
the occasion of his match with Bush. By the way,
what a pity it is for the “ books ” that th<s latter didn't
win his heat and start in the final with Laycock. How
the Clarence Eiver contingent would have slapped down
the dollars—and been “ cleaned out! ’’
At a special meeting of the Northern Jockey
Club, on Saturday night, it was unanimously decided not
to endorse the Australian Jockey Club’s disqualification
of Mr. Mayo. The case of the jockey was allowed to
stand over until further evidence was received from
Sydney. We understand that it is Mr. Mayo’s iuten-
tion to enter into an action with the A.J.C. for £lOOO.
Why not £5OOO ? Surely an owner’s reputation is worth
it. If the A.J.C. have acted hastily, the damage done
cannot be wiped out by a simple thou. We have played
with elastic in our early youth, in the simple art of
catching flies, and very often we ourselves, and not the
flies, have been the sufferers. We pulled the elastic
with our teeth and sometimes hurt our noses. Mr.
Mayo, whose reputation has always been that of a
straight and honest sportsman, strenuously denies
having acted in any way dishonourably; and asserts
that he is in a position, if the public will only withhold
their judgment for the present, to vindicate his char-
acter. As people in general so far know little about tne
facts of the affair, Mr. Mayo’s request would appear to
be a reasonable one. There is no doubt that the case
should be heard in public by some tribunal —whether
that tribunal be the A.J.C. or Supreme Court.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A Bcullmg match for <£so aside is on the tapis
at the Manning At Milton, Otago, N.Z., Arthur
Stewart, a boy, who was playing football, while rmining
very fast with the ball, was observed to drop down sud.
denly. Medical aid was sent for, but life'was extinct.
The balance sheet of the Auckland Racing Club for
the post season shows £426 to the credit of the club.
The liabilities amount to £5311 (including a loan of
£6000), and the assets to £B3lB, of which the largest
item is the racecourse, £5500 At a recent sheep-dog
match at Hamilton, Vic., a young pup owned by Mr.
Mauson proved that it could do “ everything but
speak.” Flying hurdles in rapid succession, walking
up ladders, standing on its head, turning somersaults,
and lying as though dead, are a few of its accomplish-
ments ; and as great pains are still being taken with its
education, it may be able to speak and drink whisky in
a most rational manner, before it arrives at maturity.
......Messrs. M’Carthy and Moss were the fortunate
holders of the Hesperian ticket in Jones’ consultation,
“ Which is Le Petit ?” a stranger asked at the Hip-
podrome on Saturday evening. The ped. was pointed
out to him. “He Le Petit!” cried the sttanger, it’s a
misnomer. The man’s a giant. “It should be Le
Grand." Mr. Andrew Loder's horse, Black Eagle,
took the prize at the Tamworth Show for the best blood
stallion Foxes are multiplying in the Geelong dis-
trict, and doing mischief. 60 have been killed during
the past three mouths The Carlingford Cricket Club
holds its annual meeting on Monday evening next, the
19th inst Near Rawdon Island, Manning River, on
Saturday week, the brothers Freeman and the brothers
Newberry pulled double sculls in heavy boats, over a
three-mile course. The former won, but their adver.
saries were much handicapped with regard to the
weight of their boats and sculls. The pairs race again
shortly on more equal terms The Melbourne
Cricket Club have elected Princes George and Albert
Victor of Wales, honorary life members. This cannot
fidl to be extremely gratifying to—the club, who have
conferred a similar honour on Mr. I D. Walker, and.
passed a resolution limiting the number of subscribing
members to 1500 A cricket match was played on
Moore Park, on last Saturday, between the Albert.
Victors and the Essex C. 0., and resulted in an easy
victory for the former, by 82 runs. Scores: A. V. 116,
E. C.C. 34. Rice (22 runs), batted well for the Victors,
as also did Dyson (16.) The bowling was chiefly done-
by H. M'Loughlin and J. Dyson for the A. V The-
Glenhead Football Club are not going to play under the
Victorian Rules next season An Indian millionaire, of
London, Mr. Sassoon, has his stables at the top of his.
house in Belgrave Square, the horses being carried up
by an elevator Archer, who won the Derby with
Iroquois, has just been married The shooting at
Wimbledon this , year has shown that the Martini.
Henry rifle has been eclipsed by the Metford, and that
again by Sharp’s American small-bore.
Go-as-you-please Tournament.
Saturday Bight at 11 o’clock saw the finale of the great
Qo-as-yon-please Tournament, an event which was con.
eluded in the presence of about as rowdy a collection of
the “ talent" as has been gathered together since the
last public hanging match. The interior of the tent
was a sight to be long and vividly remembered. Seated
all around the edge of theltrack, exercising their throats
to the utmost, were, on a rough average, about 150(>
representatives of the bone and sinew of the country.
Grouped about, ankle deep in dust, in another portion
of the pavilion, were various members of the peripa-
tetic-gambling fraternity, who plied their trade wit I’
apparent immunity from police supervision. Th>.
three-card man fattened upon a confiding public ; the-
speculator with the mystic figures upon the American
cloth banner did in every respect a roaring trade. The
enterprising proprietor of the ricketty roulette tal l-,
the obedient needle of which is amenable to the will of
the owner, had no cause to complain of the want of the
patronage of "gentlemen sportsman.”
# # #
The atmosphere was full of gas and glare, sawdust
and cinders. No attempt whatever had been mado by
the entrepreneurs to in any way embellish the inter or
of the|tent; and, therefore, not only was the spectmie
offered to the eye of the aesthete of a melancholy de-
scription, but this, taken in conjunction with other
surroundings of a painful, not to say repulsive, nature,
caused the exhibition of which we are writing to have
been one the repetition of which could easily be spared
to civilization. It became known in the early part of
the concluding day that all chances of the tournament
having an exciting finish had been frustrated by tho
fact of Edwards being unable to continue
walking, even after taking a prolonged rest. It ha t
been confidently anticipated that the champion would
have made a big fight for the money—which he, a*
one of the proprietors of the tournament, was naturally
interested in saving to the firm. Put the result showed
that Edwards, with all his pluck and endurance, was
hardly a match for his juvenile antagonist, who came
in an easy winner, by eleven miles, Raynor being but
nine miles behind Edwards. The scores of those who
seriously participated in the contest were as follow
_ Miles. Laps.
9 wan 43t 5
Edwards 433 3
Raynor ... 414 i
Williams 355 7
Le Petit !" 335 1
Campbell 328 0
Considerable modifications have of late yejrs taken
place in the usages of the sporting world, and the
“ noble art," as exemplified in the proceedings cf tho
prize ring, has almost entirely fallen into decay. Per-
haps this is as it should be ; but, at the same time, w->
cannot conceal from ourselves the fact that, whi'e
there is undeniably a manly element in a woll-contest< d
prize-fight, the spectacle of half-a-dozen exhausted
fellow-creatures limping on the sixth day of their
weary toil around a dusty track, is an exhibition which
savours more of the brutal than any pugilistic en-
counter on record. Sunken cheeks, hollow eyes, trail-
ing limbs, and general exhaustion are not pleasant
things to contemplate, more especially when it is re-
membered that the struggle with nature is uidergono-
merely for the sake of acquiring a few con p irativel v
small sums of money. That a large amount of pluck
and endurance were exhibited by some of tho com-
petitors—notably Swan, Edwards, Raynor, and Wil-
liams—it is impossible to deny ; yet, at the same time,
it is distressing to think that they should have had so
very much exertion for so very little glory.


Tailors, Drapers, fto.
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE,
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
We have much pleasure in reporting the receipt of our
FIRST INSTALMENT
of
NEW GOODS,
embracing
TWO HUNDRED PACKAGES.
The selection has been mode direct from the
MANUFACTURERS,
with the strictest attention to the necessities of the
Australian climate.
MANTLES.
Messrs. THOMPSON and GILES beg to announce the
arrival, ex Mail Steamer, of
A MAGNIFICENT ASSORTMENT of SPRING
MANTLES, purchased from the most eminent makers
of Paris and London, under extraordinarily advan-
tageous circumstances. They have marked them at
prices that must utterly defy competition, and would
recommend all ladies to see them before making their
purchases.
CASHMERE MANTLES, CAPES. PELERINES,
MANTLETTES, VISITES, DOLMANS, in every
shape, style, and design that fancy can imagine and
fashion sanction; there is no limit whatever to the
variety of those useful garments, and as to price,
they commence at 10s 6d, 12s 9d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s,
and so on up to 34 guineas.
SILK AND SATIN MANTLES.—These are the most
superb goods we have ever offered, ohiefly made of
THE NEWgSATIN MERVEILLEUX, and lined
with light and exquisitely soft surah, trimmed with
fons, coquilles, plaitings, and dots of Spanish lace,
brightened with the finest and most delicate jet
ornaments ; some, again, have masses of the most
beautiful chenille, and elegant bows of soft ribbons,
and in every case, whether it be the least or the
most expensive, every garment is the work of an
artiste. Price, from 498. 6d. to 6 guineas.
COSTUMES —Spring dresses, fresh from the leading
houses of Paris and London, perfect in style and
colouring, and material of the newest and choicest
descriptions, and yet at most moderate prices—an
elegant toilet in light Quadrille seige, with shawl
borderings, costing as little as 3J guineas; finer
qualities at 34 and 4 guineas; some remarkably
stylish Costumes in Cachmere d'Et6, at 4 and 44
guineas; in fact so large is rhe variety that ladies
should inspect these goods before making their
Spring purchases.
WASHING DRESS MATERIALS.—Our range is
most extensive, embracing all styles and prices, in
both French and British textures. The designs and
colourings have engaged our best efforts, and we
venture to affirm that a more complete shipment of
choice washing materials has never been imported
to the colonies.
WASHING SATTEBNS, in Plain and Printed.—A vast
collection of New Patterns, Rouen Zephyrs, beau-
tiful light Fabrics, Ginghams, Oatmeal Cloth,
French Percales, British Prints, Galatea stripes
and checks, and a large lot of other washing
materials.
FANCY DRESS DEPARTMENT.
NEW DESIGNS
at
WHOLESALE PRICES.
Our prices commence at 7{d, 84d, 94d, 1043, 12d, 14d,
163, and 18d.
Ladies will find our ASSORTMENT COMPLETE in
all the LEADING SHADES, with proper trimmings to
match.
We have a Nice Assortment of Light Coloured CASH-
MERES suitable for evening wear.
Plain DELAINES, in all the new shades.
MADRAS MUSLIN, 74 inches wide.
LACE OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
Black Spanish Cream LACES
New Ombre Crystal Shaded NETS, all colours ; Dew-
drop NETS, all new colours; Snow Flake, Tulle,
Beaded NETS, Steel Black, Gold, etc.
Novelties in Ladies' Silk TIES, Muslin and Lace
TIES, Cream and India Muslin SQUARES, Lace
FICHUS, India MUSLIN, in all the prevailing
shades.
Lisse and Tulle FRILLINGS for the neck, in single,
doub'e, treble, and four folds.
Ladies' Collars, Cuffs, etc.
Vermicelli, Alenyon, Bucharest, and Lily LACES.
Scarf LACE, white, cream, and black.
Madeira EDGINGS and INSERTIONS.
Swiss EDGINGS.
Scotch WORK EDGING and INSERTIONS, all
widths.
THOMPSON AND GILES.
NEW MILLINERY, BONNETS, and HATS, both in
trimmed and untrimmed, some very handsome
designs from the best houses in London and Paris.
We feel assurred that those who favour us with an
inspection will be highly gratified with the novel-
ties now being exhibited in our showrooms, as they
are selected with great care and good taste.
THOMPSON AND GILES’
HOSIERY.
From Messrs. J, and R. Morley, the most celebrated
manufacturers in the world for HOSIERY, which is a
sufficient guarantee of the superiority, make, and finish.
CARPETS, FLOORCLOTHS, and GENERAL FUR-
NISHING DEPARTfIfENT.
SPECIAL LOT of NEW PATTERNS in BRUSSELS
CARPETS and TAPESTRY.
Some very handsome, suitable for Drawing-rooms and
Dining-rooms. Having farther extended our premises
and opened a large room devoted to this branch, we
are able to show our NEW CARPETS to a greater
advantage.
-assets Carpets, now patterns, 5-frame, the best manu-
factored
IPESTRV CARPETS, Crossley’s best goods, new
designs
RUSSELS STAIR, Papistry Stair
[DDER CARPETS, a variety of patterns
CT GS, to match carpets
anted FELT CARPETS and SQUARES
LiOORCLOTHS, alarge assortment, some new designs
3INA MATTING, all widths
)IR MATTING, all widths
RUSH MATS
ATS, with wool borders
3EEBHKIN MATS, all sizes
SINTED TABLECLOTHS, by the yard, green and
black, crimson and scarlet
LAIN CLOTH, for table covers—green, crimson.
marone, &c.
8-4,10-4, PLAIN CLOTH, with embroidered borders
VELVET PILE COVERS
VICTORIA TABLE COVERS, all colours
FURNITURE REP, all shades
WORSTED DAMASK, all colours
CRETONNE, in great variety of patterns
WHITE, BUFF, and GREEN WINDOW HOLLAND
FURNITURE CHINTZ
STAIR DAMASK
AMERICAN CLOTH, in black, dark brown, green, &c.
THOMPSON & GILES,
Denison House.
161
KING STEEET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway).
MADAME WEIGEL’S
| Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes for Ladies and Child-
ren furnished with illustra.
tions and directions for mak-
ing up. Sold at prices rang-
_ ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly in WEIGEL’S JOURNAL OF
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free- Catalogue of Fash-ions, 3d,
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
M A D A M A E E I G E L,
161 King-street, Sydney.
Tailors, Drapers, bo.
gPR I N G REQUISITES.
JOHN B. YOUDALE.
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN’S GARMENTS MADE
TO ORDER.
We can please you in DRESS MATERIALS.
We can also please you in DRESSMAKING
CHECKED and PLAIN SA ' EENS now opening.
PLAIN and FANCV CAMBRICS now opening.
NEW SPRING MILLINERY now opening.
CASHMERE DOLMANS MADE TO ORDER,
Prices 355, 455, 555, 635.
A GRAND LOT OF SILK NETTED FICHUS,
From 3s 6d to 255.
A New and Varied Stock of Frilling B . Fringes, Tassala
and Girdles, Laces, Hosiery, Corsets, and
Satin Parachutes.
In all DRAPERY GOODS, including Millinery, Man-
Chester, and Dressmaking, we can promise to serve you
well.
JOHN B. YOUDALE,
656 GEORGE STREET,
Just below Liverpool-street.
Tailors, Drapers. &c.
U AVE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
LISE’S PAPER CUT PATTERNS,
All communications to be addressed to
“ ELTSE.”
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Patterns cannot be executed unless pre-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled in
style, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are alwaj’S sent per return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
c
ASH PRICE LIST OF WINES. ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
Claret
Dalwood... .
; Hermitage .
Shiraz
Burgundy
Sweet Shiraz
Reisling)
Dalwood
Hock
Madeira
Good Port ..
Old .. ..
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
per doz.
9s Od
10s Od
10s Od
lls Od
12s fid
13s Od
Sweet Shiraz
J. T. Fallon’s Port
Adelaide Grenaohe
(rich Burgundy
Adelaide Port'
per doz.
13s Od
25s Od
WHITE.
30s Od
30s Od
15s Od
Hennessy’s * Case
Brandy
Hennesay’s •**
Case Brandy ...
Good Palo French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’s Old
Highland W. 46s Od
Thom and Came-
ron’s Whisky ... 42s Od
Best Brands Scotch
Whisky ... 42s to 48s Od
Dunville’a Case
~ 9s 04 Brown Muscat _ ...
.. 10s Od Tokay (Adelaide)
.. 10s Od round and nice
.. lls Od flavour 30s Od
FOREIGN WINES.
.. 24s Od I Good Sherry 2ta to 36s Od
.. 36s Od |
SPIRITS. . ✓
per case.
Whisky 38s 6d
Wolfe’s Schnapps 45a Od
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz... 52s Od
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles 46s Od
Gin, Juniper, Case
of 15 Bottles
59s Od
71s Od
45s Od
45s Od
Bulldog Ale,
Quarts
Bulldog Ale, Pints
Boar’s Head Ale,
Quarts
ALES AND STOUTS.
52a 0d
per doz.
Burke’s 38s fid
Best Irish Whis-
ky ... 87s to 45s Od
Rum, fine old Ja-
maica ... 42s to 48a Od
per case.
Boar’s Head Ale,
10s 9d Pints 6s 3d
7a 9d Boar’s Head Stout,
Quarts 9s fid
9a Od Boar’s Head Stout,
Pints 6d fid
Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be foe
dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of one sort, otherwise
1. per pozen extra will be charged.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
>wn or to the Wharves or Bedfern Railway Station,
erms—Prompt Nett Cash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
WINE SPIRIT MERCHANT,
16 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ICE
I
ICE
ICE
rjIHE CITY ICE COMPANY, having made such
ADDITION to their WORKS as to enable them to
Manufacture upwards of TEN TONS ICE per diem,
are prepared to Supply this LUXURY during the AP.
PROACHING SUMMER, at a lower rate than ever.
For prices, &c.,
Apply to
3 WYNYARD STREET,
OR TO VARIOUS AGENTS.
gMALL POX. SMALL POX.
PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE,
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHET is the best PRE-
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX. Price, Is.; from all
Chemists.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
Affiliated to Trin. Coll., London.
CHAMBERS: 191 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Principal :
Dr. RODWAY, M.A., F.R.S L. (Lon.)
SPECIAL CLASSES ONLY are conducted by Dr.
RODWAY, and the number of students in each class is
strictly limited to TEN, so that he may give to each
gentleman that individual attention which will alone
secure success. Dr. Rodway’s system is easy and effi-
cient, and he guarantees to pass every candidate he
sends to the University—Law, Civil Service, and all
Public Examinations.
FEES: Per term, in advance, for each class ... £4 4s.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor will be
awarded upon the conclusion of each term.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, 191 William-street, Sydney.
DK. RODWAY PRINCIPAL.
L //>
&
&
Uj
37
-A
&
ASSO^
as
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL.
HEAD OFFICE: 263 GEORGE STREET.
CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO. SUBSCRIBED; £42,049.
LIFE and FIRE INSURANCES.
LOWEST RATES of PREMIUM.
W Policy holders participate to the extent of four-
fifths in the profits.
JAMES S. BRAY, Secretary.
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHKONK
JTUENEE EOBINKON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 454, GEORGE-STKEKT,
Opposite the Fruit Markets.
Established 1564.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of.
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
AND A PEEPECT PIT GUARANTEED.
fa MERICAN CUT PAPER PATTERNS.
MADAME DEMOEEST'S
Perfect Pitting.
Newest styles every mail from Paris and New York,
Pull directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOEEST’S publications are Polios of
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear, Is. j Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HA DEIS,
87 King Street, Sydney (two doors from Qeorge-st.),
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-stroet, Melbourne.
p EO. It. LINEKER,
HIGH-CLASS CASH TAILOE,
3 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY,
LATE
CUTTEE TO E. MILLETT,
Begs to Inform his friends and the public that he has
opened the above premises for supplying those
gentlemen who wish to have the best goods, work-
manship, &c., at a low price for cash.
Gentlemen requiring this with West End London style
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly attended to.
N.B.—TWO DOOES FEOM QEOEGE STEEET,
\Y'M. ISOLD’S
FIRST PRIZE PIANOS.
• .
■M*
■
V; J
PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS,
by the very best Manufactures of Europe, sold on the
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
if required,
AT MODERATE PRICES,
OXFORD STREET PIANOFORTE WARE-
HOUSE,
44 &46 OXFOED-STEEET. 44 & 46.
SMALL PARS. ABOUT SMALL-POX.
The cause of small-pox is a specific contagion,
of whose nature science is as yet profoundly ignorant.
The poisonous effluvium has been known to
cross a river 1500 feet wide, and affect ten out of twelve
men working there.
The contagion acts either through the air, or by
contact with the skin, or by inoculation.
Clothing, if confined, will preserve the con-
tagious principle for years.
Small-pox is more fatal at the two extremes of
life, and is especially dangerous to women in a certain
condition.
Small-pox is most virulent on its first introduc-
tion to a new scene of action.
The disease always appears in an epidemic form,
at irregular, and (as far as science knows) at capricious
Intervals.
The disease, after devastating a district, spon-
taneously disappears—dies out, as it were—and does
not re-appear for years.
There are two forms of the disease —viz., dis-
tinct and confluent. In the former the pustules are
isolated; in the latter they coalesce, and the case is
never free from danger.
The most important difference between the two
forms is the secondary fever which sets in when the
pustules are mature. The eighth is the most perilous
day, and the second week the most dangerous.
The early occurrence of death denotes a peculiar
malignancy in the disease.
Isolated cases are much milder than those
occurring in an epidemic, which latter are usually very
fatal.
The first indications of attack are heat and dry-
ness of the skin, quickened pulse, furred tongue, pain
in the pit of the stomach, nausea, vomiting, headache,
often pains in the back and limbs, and occasionally
delirium. In children, the disease is often ushered in
by convulsions. Third day, minute red spots—first on
the face, then the limbs and lower extremities—appear.
The fever subsides as the eruption appears, and
on the fifth day, when the eruption is complete, the
fever is gone.
The second stage is the development of the
eruption. Sometimes there are a few pustules—some-
t mes many thousands, according to the amount of
va.i ileus poison reproduced in the blood.
The second or maturation fever occurs on the
eighth or ninth day. This fever is extremely dangerous
in the confluent form ; the whole nervous system often
becomes overwhelmed by the force of the poison, and
death occurs.
The discovery of vaccination, by which small-
pox is deprived of its danger, has long been considered
the greatest triumph of modern surgery.
This is now disputed, but, according to the
prevailing opinion, vaccination protects both the indi-
vidud and the community.
Although, in the great, majority of cases, it
affords perfect protection against small-pox, it may
happen that vaccinated persons, when exposed to con-
tagion, will get the disease, but in an extremely
modified form. It is known as the varioloid form. It
wants the peculiar odour of small-pox, and the fatal
secondary fever is very rare.
The constitutional disturbance, which may, in
the first week, have been severe, usually subsides when
the eruption has reached its height, and the patient is
convalescent at the period when, if he had not been
vaccinated, he would have been in the greatest danger.
Jenner’s discovery of vaccination is described
as a masterpiece of medical induction. He believed
cow-pox and small-pox were identical, and that both
had a common origin in the grease of the horse. This
latter idea has, however, not been supported by science.
The lymph from horse-pox has been successfully used
for vaccination.
In 1839 and in 1840, at Aylesbury and Brighton,
England, cows were inoculated with small-pox virus,
and from t hem was obtained a supply of genuine small-
pox lymph, placing the identity of the two diseases
beyond all question.
Jenner demonstrated that cow-pox casuaUy
communicated to man had the power of rendering him
unsusceptible of small-pox, and that cow-pox once
engrafted on tbe human subject might be continued
from individual to individual, conferring on each the
sane immnity from small-pox as was enjoyed by the
one first infected direct from the cow.
Small-pox is extremely fatal to children, and
they should be vaccinated when a month or six weeks
old.
Babies are much better lymph-givers than elder
children or adults; and children of dark complexion,
not too florid, with a thick, smooth, clear skin, yield the
finest and most effective lymph.
Lymph should always, where practicable, be
passed from arm to arm, and the preserved lymph
should only be need when a vaccinated child is not to
be obtained.
Imperfect vaccination, and consequent liability
t ) small-pox, has been largely traced to arise from the
use of preserved and conveyed 1,. mph instead of vacci-
nation from arm to arm.
Parallel or crossed scratches with a charged
lancet are considered by many the best form of vacci-
nation.
Any vaccination which presents a deviation
from the perfect character of the vesicle (of bluish-
white colour, with an elevated edge and a depressed
cup), and the regular development of the inflamed ring
or areola, is not to be relied on as a protective against
small-pox.
Recent investigations in England showed that
not one in eight children had been so vaccinated as to
have the highest degree of protection from small-pox
while not one in three could be considered on the most
indnlgent estimate to be well protected.
Inefficient vaccination arises most frequently
from practitioners being satisfied (instead of infecting
the whole system) with insertions of lymph sufficient to
produce only one, two, or three ordinary vesicles.
Fifty thousand children were examined during
an epidemic in London. Of every 1000 unvaocinatod
360 had scars of small-pox; of 1000 vaccinated, only
1.78 had such scars. Those who had four or more
marks or cicatrices of vaccination only showed as 0.62
per 1000, while those imperfectly vaccinated with only
<mo mark showed as 19 per 1000 —indicating that the
best vaccination was more than 30 times as protective
as the worst, and the worst more than 47 times better
than none at all.
Of 15,000casea in the London Small-pox Hospital
the uuvaccinated died at the rate of 37 per 100, and the
vaccinated only at 6J per 100. The mortality amongst
those with four or more vaccination marks was 0.55 per
100, while those with only one mark was 7.73 per 100.
So that the average rate of vaccinated persons is l-6th
that of unvaccinated people, while well-vaccinated
persons run l-70th part of the risk.
Re- vaccination is certainly safer, if not actually
necessary.
Up North, the other day, in a libel case, a
verdict for £lO was given. The libel consisted of an
advertisement, published in one of the local papers by
the advertiser—a woman, who was the person sued.
The opposition editor points a moral, at the expense of
his rival, saying that, “ it is now known that for ten
shillings a man may publish in the Blanktown
Mi'an kb, that another man is a murderer, a thief, and a
perj rirer. Only ‘ ten bob,’ and in it goes. That’s the
paper.that suits Mayor up to the handle—it can be
bought Mid sold for • ten bob.’ It will be silent about
the most barefaced swindles and jobs for ‘ten bob.’
We congratulate tbe Mayor and Council on the
respectable organ they now patronise—a common sink
vi hero rubbish of all kinds can be shot —all for * ten
bob.’ It stands up for no principle; it exposes no
abuses; it is always a shield for low blackguards, from
behind which to shoot their venom.” Lively.


Hotels, &o.
HOGSHEADS, QUAI
AND CASE,
agent—a eoit a;
BRIDGE STREET CH
c
OOLALTA WINE
119 PITT STREET,
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs t
that owing to the increasing dema
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATEI
Although the principal business
the above address, the CELLARS
Wharf, Circular Quay, will be reta
WINES IN LARGE BULK an
TRADE.
•a* Having arranged with his
WILKINSON, late Manager of th<
io act in conjunction with Mr
Sydney, he feels confident that, n
the above-named two experien
favours will he attended to with 1
tude.
THE
TAEPING Ml
This celebrated TEA is com
UNCOLOURED 1
and is made up into lib and half It
in the China Tea Gardens, and co
following places :
Wm. Hughes, William-streat,
F. M’Donald, William-street,
J. Lender, William-street, Wo
Chapman Bros., William-stree
A. M'Donald, Upper Willintn-s
J. Cazenane, Yurong and Fran
W. Keith, 175 Palmer-street
J. Kavanagh, 111 Eiley-street
P. Dowes, Darling Point
Mrs. Spahn, Double Bay
B. Wines, Woolahre
E. Clarke and C,, Oxford and I
W. Donnelly, 229 Oxford-stree
B. Talty, 49 Oxford-street
J. Heggarty, Old South Head-i
J. Loutit, Old South Hend-ron
E. J. Bauman, Old South Heac
W. Redgate, Bourke-street
E. F. King, 644 Bourke-street
R. Correy and Co., corner of Ci
E. S. Tighe, 623, George-street
E. Daly, 567 George-street
W. N. Rokes, 571 Qeorge-stree
J. Dive, jmnr., 99 George-street
E. Dunne, comer of Ultimo ai
J. Davis, Glebe-road
Deacon and Sons, North Shor
W. Chapman, Alfred-street, N
D. Eldridge Millers-street, St
J. B. Rea, Mullen-street, Bain
D. M'Kinlay, Beatie-street, Bi
W. H. Cavil, Balmain
J. Vining, Botany-road, Water
C. W. Coops, Raglan and Bota
Thomas Spence, 66 Elizabeth-!
J. M'Donald, 6 Botany-road W
J. Abigail, Kingstown,
J. Cole, Queen-street, Enmore
W. Q. Judd, St. Peters
A. M'Kechnie, senior, Newtow
M. Hall, Cook’s River
A. Quinery, Miller's Point
Boyce, Miller’s Point
J. Elliott, 192 Princess-street,
Petals, Sto.
OLD EXHIBITION OTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOR BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &c.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
B
OBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOO: .00.
ALT. THE BEST BRANDS OP ALE AND PORTER,
Is PEE BOTTLE.
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS. 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
M.B.— Cockburn’s Grape (PORT WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers Died.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, iu one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
Hotels, &c
FOSTER'S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &o.
The compagnoni catering company
OF PITT-STEEET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a superior “ Alcock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persons, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKHAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jaterinq (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cafe, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and EESTAUEANT for Gentlemen.
EEFEESHMENT EOOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GEEAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthdav Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONEEY of the purest description.
QUAEANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us.
The CATEEING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons'
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
has. e. Qmith,
MANAGES.
OLEY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BEIDGE STEEET,
(Opposite Bulletin Office.)
E. W. FOLEY, PEOPEIETOE.
BOAED AND EEBIDENCB.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIAEDS.
i
M
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The Celebrated
The PurestSt i m uian t
The Name o t M. MOSS & CO.
Tho BEST ALE and STOU
SOLD BY ALL STOEEKEEP:
MERCHANTS
VIRGOE, SON, AND
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE B
IxpRU-i
Sfiß-U
m
SND
WkJtui
It is of tho utmost importance 1
bottle should be carefully oompari
are being imported into New S<
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite bevel
LOENE HIGHLAND WHISK'S
other brands, when they will fln
least 10 per cent, in favour of I
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,IND
AGENTS.
Jjl MAE T I N
AUSTEALIAN WINE M
AND BEEB BOX’
105 PITT STEE
SYDNEY.
LIST OP WINES IN
Prices from 12s to 42s
ALBUEY WIN!
BED.
Petit Verdot
Port
Shiraz
Carbinet
Hermitage
Malbeo
HUNTEE EIVER \
Claret
Lambrusoat
POET MACQUARIE
Burgundy.
JpIALLON’S PEIZE A 1
T T Ti'AT.T.mj'S in noting mil
Is on every Genuine Bottle
r is not tlie clearness or oonditi
Alo that preserves this bran
nation. Common bitter orude bee:
Imt no other brand has the same n
ter, the fulness on the palate, aj
qualities of the Bull Dog Alo. C
tore cautioned against traders wh
extra profit represent the commoi
equal in quality to the Bull Dog,
CO., Sole Agents.
OS
MAR
B°
A R > S H E A I
This favourite bnu
T O
Is selected with great care from t'
toga of the celebrated firm of AB
and CO., Dublin, and therefore can
,
Hookings & co.’s om
Australian Wine strengthens the
system against infections diseases.
Opposite City Bamk, PITT STBEET.
asw
is*
•-
BE?
&
3U'
SE V:
ss
Money.
IJNION LOAN AND DISCC
OFFICES: 760 GEOEQE STB
3 doors from A. Hordern
Honrs —9 to 5
MONET ADVANCED upon PI
security, payable by instalments, a
£lO by weekly instalments o
15
20
25
SO
50
And In due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTH
To borrowers not able to transao
day, the offices will be open Monda
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEOEQE STEEET,
3 doors from A. Horden
fTPt
O SMALL FREEHOLD A
PEOPEIETOE
MONET LENT on mortgage of
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the w«
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent en deposit of deeds, v
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION I
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760
market.
ONDON
MORTGAGE,
DISCOUNT BA]
109 ELIZABETH STEEET SOU!
School).
FIEST ESTABLISHED I
SPECIAL NOTH
The Directors place before those (
advantages upon easy terms—UN
advantages. Their method of trai
highly commended, CONCESSIC
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE
BILLS OF SALE en furniture,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonde<
ties. Personal effects, Ac.,
AND UPON ANT EEASONAB
N.B.—Promissory Notes, Acoe
COUNTED daily.
fiepayments by WEEKLY,
QUAETEELT instalments; or a£
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and in ter vie'
confidential.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Shiel Barry, the original and unrivalled Gaspard
in “Les Cloches de Corneville,” commenced his profes-
sional career on “Lambing Flat,” N.S. Wales. He
subsequently performed in Ballarat, Melbourne, and
the chief New Zealand cities with moderate success, and
then went to England Rumour has it that “Pina-
fore” has been done into Chinese. Perhaps it runs in
this way: “Me neble, neble thick ride on plig pond.”
“ Wassee, neble ?” “ Only lil’, one thime, somethime.”
ln London, H. J. Llewellyn, a converted clown, has
been convicted of bigamy. Early in life he became a
shoemaker; later on a clown with a travelling circus,
and married wife No. 1. He soon tired of the wicked
life, and happening to be in gaol with another of the
troupe, embraced religion and the opportunity to sever
his connection with the sawdust ring and his wife. He
advertised as an evangelist, preached and married again.
Four months’ imprisonment The Lyttleton Times
critic says Miss Leaf, now playing with Cary’s
“ Pirates ” Co., has made good use of her Australian
travel in the part of Josephine, but it will be a long
time before she can efface the memory of Mrs. Lingard
in the part. The fair Alice’s “ Goodness, gracious, how
I do love him !” was something to be remembered
Generally speaking, the pit and stalls are the support
of N.Z. theatres. The dress circle people are only
caught occasionally The Towers Herald describes
the Marquise St. Maur (impersonated by Mrs. Edwin
Palmer) as “ the high-notioned, haughty, stand-off-the
grass sort of mother of George D’Alroy!’’ Thus the
Auckland Observer of Jenny Watt-Tanner’s Lady
Isabel in “East Lynne:”—Miss Tanner is a clever
actress, and in the earlier scenes of the play was
moderately successful. Her apipearance later on, how-
ever, when disguised as Madame Vine, and also when
lying on that absurdly short and narrow bed was pain-
fully grotesque. We were in an agony lest she should
fall out, and this thought, together with the unnatural
and inflated language of the piece, made us giggle con-
sumedly St. Leon’s circus is in the Western dis-
trict of Victoria Mr. John Hill (Mr. lima
de Murska) is still conducting at the Strand Theatre,
London Miss Alice May continues to be the bright
particular star at the Alhambra Palace, London A
Wellington journal contradicts a romantic story which
has gone the round of the N.Z. press, to the effect that
Miss Surtees (Mrs. Morton Tavares) is a niece of the
Marchioness of Normanby. Her maiden name was Miss
Curtis, aud she comes from'an old and highly respect-
able family in one of the Midland counties of England.
Morton Tavares was a member of a theatrical company
travelling on circuit there, and not the young lady’s
French tutor, as stated. Miss Curtis fell in love and
eloped with him Miss Rose Andrews (sisterto Tilly)
has' been married in N.Z. to a Mr. A. Hayes The
other Saturday night the management of the Royal,
Christchurch, announced a piece called “The Galley
Slave.” The pit and stalls were packed, but what did
the unhappy audience get for their money? Dress
suits and drawing-room scenes—no blood, no thunder,
no pistols, no daggers, no blue fire, “ no nothing!" Such
conduct, savs the Times, is deserving of the severest
censure, and in the interests of the public we must pro-
test against practical jokes of this kind An an-
nouncement in the Herald tells a yearning public that
the great tragic actor, Mr. Bandmann, is about to make
his re-appearance in Melbourne and Adelaide—but
Svdney is apparently not to be honoured. This is a
pity, since we and everybody else consider Herr Band-
mann to be the greatest actor in the world. Come on,
Daniel, and give ns once more a chance of seeing the
real thing. Give us “ Narcisse ” —cue to the band for a
“hurry”—“before we die.” Herr Bandmann has
leased the Melbourne Opera House Thus “Zulu”
Thompson, writing from Perth, W.A., August 26:
“ Just a line to let you know how we 'segagiate. We’ve
played Perth and the Eastern districts to gorgeous
audiences, and at present we are before the Fremau-
tleites, who stick to us like the barnacles mentioned in
the Scriptures. On Saturday we leave for Champion
Bvy, returning in time to catch the Macedon for
Melbourne ; from thence to Launceston and Hobart
A eosmorama was opened the other evening in a
Q mensland citv, and the lecturer got rather mixed.
“The Tower of London by day, and now the Tower of
Loudon on fire.” Suddenly turning roundhesaid, “ Oh
d it; I mean the Tower of London by gas-light."
Most of the views were briefly passed round with, “Here
is a splendid picture, and 1 feel you know more about
it t ban I do; look at it.” There has been a new lecturer
engaged since Boothman did not like Cates being
cist in first juvenile character in “Diplomacy” at
Brisbane, but he gave in, and took Orloff. The play-
bills were worded “on this occasion,” and the public
generally consider that Boothman has made a splendid
hit Things axe a little unhappy at the Brisbane
Theatre Royal, and whispers of a dissolution of partner-
ship between the present lessees are abroad. The only
point on which they seem to agree is that tall black hats
are essential to theatrical management The Clara
Stephenson company had good houses during their
Tumut season It is said that “All on account of
Eliza," in the comic opera of “ Billee Taylor,” is for
the first two bars identical with Mendelssohn’s “ How
lovely are the messengers." Barlow’s Circus was at
Lithgow on Sept. 7th. Business immense The
Oarcoar Mary announces the English Circus Company
“next Thursday,” and that “one of the specialities
is a ‘ female Hercules,’ Madame Mattie Duvall, who
will perform the feat of drawing herself to the apex of
the circus by her teeth. A splendid brass band accom-
panies the troupe.” Let’s hope, for her husband’s
sake (if she’s got ®ne), that the lady’s tongue is not
quite so long as her teeth. Molong to follow The
Oliver-Seagrave Company doing big biz. at the Towers
in “ The Old Curiosity Shop.” The Miner, however,
says that the representation is an exaggerated and re-
volting caricature of one of Dickens’ most charming
creations. The play is all Qui Ip, and too much of him.
Dickens’ Quilp was not produced at all—the whole
character was a hideous burlesque. The part should not
be attempted by a man of Mr. W. H. Seagrave’s thews
a*rt sinews. He is not fitted to play at gorillas. Stage
necessities compelled Miss Oliver to pass off her roun-
ded limbs and well-nourished form for the pinched
frame and wizened corpus of the poor half-starved
Marchioness.” This was too much of a joke, but, says
Thadeus, she carried the audience with her all the
same, and more power to her, the colleen. The rest of the
company, including Miss Melrose (Little Nell), Mr.
Edwin Palmer (Grandfather Trent), Mrs. Palmer (Mrs.
Jiniwin and Mrs. Jirley), Miss Lester (Sally
Brass), and Mr. C. Seagrave (Sampson Brass), are
well spoken of The Mastodon Minstrels played two
nights at Mudgee, to houses the reverse of crowded
At Gympie, Professor Anderson, with the gift trick, has
“fetched ’em,” when the headless women couldn’t.
He offered prizes for the handsomest and ugliest
man in the room, as well as for the best-looking, best-
dressed, and worst-dressed lady present. A silver
watch fell to Mr. Philip Heckscher without a dissent-
ing voice; while Mr. 0. M’Mahon, as the ugliest man,
was consoled for the verdict of the committee of
examiners—Messrs. Power and Thomas—by the gift of
a silver teapot. The same gentlemen, and no bad
judges either, decreed that a silver teapot and vase of
wax flowers should be given to Miss Emily Doyle, as the
prettiest and best-dressed lady present; a similar prize
being handed to Miss Cockbum, upon the grounds, a
high compliment to those ladies who were there, of
being the plainest amongst them. Mr. Barns, as the
best-dressed man, got a silver mug, which should have
gone to his tailor. The prize for the best conundrum
fell to Mr. Cuffe, for the following brilliant scintillation
of genius:—“ Why are Professor Anderson’s gifts like
draftsmen ? Because they draw well.” If Mr. Cuffe
will come down, or send his photo, per flrst|boat, we’ll
order his statue from Simonetti, and have it erected at
the Necropolis Dr. Lynn’s performance at Cook-
town in aid of the local girls’ school, was not a financial,
success, only £2 being netted. However, Miss Blan-
chard’s “ben.” turned out well Gundagai D.C.
have plaved “John Dobbs" and “Wandering Min-
strel.” The people, the local rag says, got “ full value
for their money,” We have often been that way our-
selves at amateur shows Clara Stephenson is back at
“ the Vic.” at Temora. “ Our Boys ” for a change
Grattan Riggs writes from Brisbane to the effect that
the statement printed by us as to his having been a par-
tial failure there does him an injustice. He points out
P-ofessor Anderson was playing a gift show against
him, and that in his third week the departure of the
S (iiadron.! temporarily paralysed theatrical business.
A’l things considered, his biz, was as good as could
possibly have been expected. Morris Greenwall has
g ie to Melbourne, where glory waits him. He has
some big people to arrive from America Rice, the
v ■ >d-reader, is in Launceston, and seems to have read
tin; mind of thq Examiner m m, to some purpose. This
bewildered individual writes that the exhibition is
“the strangest and most perplexing, &c.” The soul-
sounder will tour the Tight Little Island.
* * #
R. Huzzy, better known as Baron Littlefinger
(who was here with Cole’s circus) and Miss Mollie Shader,
called the Liliputian Queen, were lately married at the
Kohler House, Osceola, Pa. They received a large
number of presents Blanche Correlli, who was here
with Nat. Salsbury’s Troubadours, has married again.
Johnny Gourlay rejoins Salsbury’s Troubadours.
He lately performed in Scotland and Wales Clive
Hersee, it now appears, suicided by jumping off a rail-
way bridge. Before doing so he seemed to be in good
spirits. The moment he struck the water he began to
struggle frantically. The force of the current car-
ried him down stream. When about two hundred
yards down from the bridge he managed to divest him-
self of his heavy outer garments, and commenced his
efforts to reach the bank. When about a mile from the
bridge, and while going over small rapids, the body
disappeared. The theory among the company is that
he did not premeditate suicide, but imagined that he
might work upon the feelings of his wife, of whom he
was jealous, by a pretended attempt at death A
great granddaughter of the Mrs. Siddons was to make
her ddbut as Juliet at the Royal Park Theatre, Camden
Town, London, in July It is said that the late Charles
Dillon once met Bateman and Irving, when the latter
was at the zenith of his fame, at an hotel, and that the
battle raged as follows:—Bateman: “ Mr. Dillon, this
is Mr. Irving; you’ve heard of him, of course ? ”
Dillon (full of traditional dignity) : “ Irving—lrving—
let me see. Yes; I think there was a young man of
that name who used to polish boo ” Bateman
(aside to D. with most agonising pantomimic gestures):
“ No, no. Irving—Henry Irving—the great Hamlet,
you know.” Dillon (suddenly waking up): “Oh, yes!
Of course. I fancy Ido recollect you after all, Mr.
Er —Irving. By the way, are you doing anything
now?” Slow music. Curtain George Coppin has
been testimonialized on retiring from the active man-
agement of the Musical and Dramatic Association, of
which he is the founder Irving and Toole were to
play for each other’s benefit. Irving’s was to take place
July 22, and Toole’s July 23 An actress in California,
a Miss Kinlin, recently married a professional named
Wood, and her stage name is now hyphenated into
Mme. Kinlin-Wood.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
So Friday will see the last of Olivette,” and
Saturday the first of “ Madame Favart.’’ Soit I We
may remark for the edification of our readers that
“ Madame Favart ’’ is a very great card, indeed, and
that the music throughout is delightful. In short, it is
a production which will, doubtless, find a large amount
of Favart with the public.
* * *
We are sorry to hear, however, that Mr.
Mervin’s voice is not quite all right yet, hut still,
doubtless, Fred, will he able to give a good account of
himself. Mr. Harweod has, we understand, an immense
part, and Mr. Wallace will cause as many yells in his
new impersonation as he did in his old ones. Laverne
will, of course, sparkle as usual, and we hope to see
Miss Nellie cutting about in another costume, d la
Griolet. “ Madame Favart ” is another adaptation by
Fannie, which ran for upwards of two years at the
London Strand,
* * * *
Mr. Bayless is, we learn, busy getting his
company together. He has engaged to support Mr.
Dampier, Mrs. Marion Stamir era. Miss Marion Melrose,
Mr. Harry Emmett, and others whose names are not
yet made public. We regret to hear, by the way, that
Mr. Dampier has been far from well lately. We trust,
however, that he will pull round in time t® tackle to
" Mother-in-Law ” on the night of her debut in Sydney.
Little Lily has quite recovered, and Rose is as a rose
should be—blooming. Alfred’s leading ledy is—well,—
wait until you see her 1 Then we prophesy that you
will long for her to be in some trifling difficulty, in
order that yon may fly to Adere.
* * * *
Writing us from Batavia, July 18th, Mr. Frank
Hewett (of “ Hewett and Ogden’s Zip-Musettes’’) says:
—“ We have arrived in Java, and played three nights to
on the average £l7O, or 2000 guilders, a night. Ours is
the first English troupe that has visited this place for
over four years, and, being musical, we have taken them
by storm. Ketten, the pianist, opened here last week,
and returned the people their money—didn’t take
enough to pay gas. He gave the Batavia people his
opinion of the country, and took the first steamer to
India. Chiarini is here, with a poor company. Wilson
opened last night to over £5OO. He has made two for-
t mes in Java, and will make another with his present
company, as it is a good one." Prank also sends us a
play-bill, in which we notice that he figures, amongst
other things, as •* Sir Francis Holloway (een millionair,
die wanhopig verliefd is op Miss. Lovelace, en haar
hand niet kan bemagtigen ten gevolge van haar voor-
liefde voor de kunst j.” The wind-up of the entertain-
ment was “ Mr. R. D’Orsav Ogden allergrappigste klucht
in e£n bedrijf, getiteld JALOSIE of Een Kus in den
Donker.” We are delighted to hear all this.
* « •
We are in receipt of an epistle from a gentle-
man who states —“ I am not an amature (sic) theatri-
cal myself, though often appear on the stage; ’’ we
therefore suppose that his line is the ship-painting.
Anyhow, his interest in the “amatures," as he calls
them, is obvious; possibly he has an aunt in the
Romanys. In referring to criticisms that have ap-
peared in this journal upon amateur performances, our
correspondent remarks:—“Your criticisms never make
allowance, but treat one and all as if they were pro-
fessionals, now professionals have to be amatures
before they can claim to rank with professionals, and I
can assure you in his training, labors harder, a deal not
only to act, but to study, and then perhaps after reading
up ten or twelve pages, to have cold water on him, and
very cold to (sic), of course it damps his spirits.” We
are not surprised from the style of our correspondent’s
orthography that he should be utterly unable to under-
stand what he reads. Our endeavour has been to
elevate the tone of amateur entertainments, and to
scare ignoramuses like himself from making painful
exhibitions of themselves, to the detriment of the
charity for which they appear. An actor who takes up
acting for a profession is never an amateur. He has at
the commencement to go through a long and arduous
course of training; to watch how other actors walk,
talk, and gesticulate. He rises, not at once, but by
slow and careful steps he creeps up the histrionic
ladder. If he has the talent in him, he makes a name
and a fortune; if not, by dint of hard work and many
privations he makes a hand to mouth living, and dies
an unknown man. We have a great deal of patience,
but it is not illimitable. Therefore, when we are con-
tinually beholding persons who are utterly unsuited
by nature, education, and appearance for occupations
other than those of the forge or the counter, exhibiting
themselves upon the stage, it is not astonishing that
we should 11 throw cold water.”
* * * *
This is how they do it in America. Mary
Anderson, a shining light in the theatricaliworld, thirsts
for puffing pars. In her sleeping-car she has a piano, a
type writer, a cottage bedstead, and an easel, and has
got a notice for each of them. Her last new dodge has
been to get a patent cooking-stove, and when she comes
to the large stations she fries flap-jacks with her sleeves
rolled up, singing the while “ The cottage on the sea.”
That stove and those flap-jacks are now historic.
44- 44- 44- 44-
The Cardens seem to have scored their first hit
in Melbourne, in Lovell’s play, “The Wife’s Secret.”
Miss Marston Leigh is described as being very powerful
as the wife who is kissed while her husband watches
her shadow on the blind. At the Princess’, “ Adagio ’’
says that “a new specimen of morbid stage garbage,
inappropriately called literature, styled 1 Gratitude,’
was produced on Saturday night, before, I am happy to
s*y, a thin house. It deals with crime in all its re-
pulsiveness, and, unlike M. Zola’s works, betrays an
utter want of skill in the dressing. It is a colonial pro-
duction, and is certainly no credit to the country, and
therefore the less said about it the better." Miss Rate
Thayer has made a lot of money singing for Kowalski.
Her popularity in Melbourne is evidently very great,
and we are glad of this, both for her sake and for that
of Mr. Chapman—who, by the way, is here again with
the Wilhelmj crowd, whose farewell night in Sydney is
to-morrow (Friday).
* * * *
Said that preux chevalier, Henri Kowalski, with
his very own smile to Rigby, of the Oriental Hotel,
Melbourne, “ Would you mind if I send in one or two
pianos to rehearse my concert ?” “ Not at all," was
the urbane reply. That night 53 different instrumen-
talists were “ going it” in the dining-room, while the
lodgers congregated in the passages and enquired of
one another how far away the earthquake was. Rigby is
better than he was; hut ho tearfully remarks to his
friends that his taste for music has gone for ever.
* * * *
What was the trouble at the Royal during re-
hearsal last Friday ? We should not have known any-
thing about it had we not met the man going for the
raw beef. And what was the bother, on the evening of
the same night?
The fates decree that folks should suffer.
Who get mixed up with an op’ra buffer.
* * * *
Mr. Dewhurst’s engagement at the Queen’s is
now drawing to a close, and he will be succeeded, as we
remarked last week, by Mr. Walter Reynolds, who will
appear in a round of his own dramas, some of which
are cleverly written, and skilfully constructed. Mr.
Reynolds, as an actor, has gained for himself a very
large amount of popularity, both in New Zealand and
South Australia, and it is just on the carls that he
will become histrionically, as he is socially, a great
favourite here. We give Walter the same advice before
opening at the Queen’s which we vouchsafed Mr. Dew-
hurst —look after the rehearsals, and the front of the
house will look after itself,
44- 44- 44- 44-
“ La Fille de Madame Angot ” was produced at
the Opera House on Saturday last, by the Kelly and
Leon Company, under many disadvantages, and conse-
quently it was by no means such an enjoyable per-
formance as it might have been. In the first place
nearly all the singers were off colour, and to make
things worse, their efforts were to a large extent marred
by the unruly behaviour of some larrikins in the pit.
Mr. Kelly’s forbearance under these circumstances was,
we have no hesitation in saying, a mistake. He should
have at once had the authors of the disturbance ejected
and looked up. This is the only successful way of
dealing with the half-drunken hoodlums who are a
nuisance in every theatre they pollute with their
presence.
# # #
We should like to say something kind about the
opera, since we sympathise with Mr. Kelly in the in-
different success which has greeted his latest appear-
ance in Sydney, but honesty compels us to admit that
“ La Fille de Madame Angot ’’ was a great falling off
from either “ Les Cloches” or " QiroflA" Mr. Kelly’s
Larivaudiere was not particularly funny, and Mr. Lester
appeared to little advantage as Pomponnet. Mr. Stuart
Bolton sang some parts of Ange Pitou's music with
effect, but much of it was above his compass. Miss
Wangenheim sang well (as she nearly always does) as
Clairette, but her physique—which, to say the least,
isn't sylph-like—is more suited to the role of Lange
than that of Pomponnet’s fiancee. Miss Lucy Fraser’s
Mademoiselle Lange is, in «t word, not good enough for
Sydney. She has made great strides in her profession,
it is true, but it will yet be years before she can either
sing or act this most difficult character. The piece was
fairly mounted, but the Conspirators’ Chorus was rather
emaciated. “Fatinitaa” will be played on Saturday
next, when we sincerely trust this hard-working little
troupe will score a success. Mr. Kelly, however, would
do well to put a little more backbone into his company,
if he can get the people. What looks big in the
country seems nothing on the stage of a metropolitan
theatre. And the armies of Musgrove make a little
show look smaller still.
•* 44- 44- 44-
Mac cab e has achieved the greatest success that
has ever been vouchsafed to a single entertainer in
Srdney, and we are glad to see it. In the whole of
Fred’s programme, there is not an item that a ten-year-
old school-girl might not listen to; and that a show like
this should succeed as it has done here, speaks some-
thing forlthe moral well-being of the community, and a
great deal for Mr. Maccahe. Our versatile friend is in
excellent hands,—and as the proverb goes, that “two
heads are better than one," so the crowded state of
the Sydney School of Arts, nightly, points to the
conclusion that two Freds are better than one also.
Mr. Hiscocks is a “ demon ” at working up a show); but
in this instance all he has to do is to walk about, with
his hands in his pockets jingling millions. His only
trouble is to find room for the people.
* * * *
We understand that Mr. Percy FitzStubbs*
well-known in musical circles, has entered into an
arrangement with a gentleman well-known on the
Sydney press, to write him a two-act libretto of a comic
opera, for which Mr. FitzStubbs is to furnish the
music. The title of the opera (which will be entirely
original) is to be “ Geraldine.”
* * * *
The Turners in “Eli” at the Garden Palace
on Saturday. They have been doing a fine business
Bathurst way, but the prices charged have been too
low. Miss Montague completely staggered the rustics
—chose qui nous etonne point.
* * * 44-
Brave Dick Thatcher and Carden are going to law.
And their feelings they daily do harden ;
And we wish Jim may catch a red cent out of Thatcher,
Or a farden Dick get out of Carden.
44- 44- 44- 44-
We were told that while the arrangements were
pending for the Marcus Clarke memorial benefit.
Miss Pattie de foie—we mean Miss Patty Laverne—
stated that she would be unable to sing at the matinee,
since her voice would suffer by the wear and tear of two
performances in one day. This was felt to be not un-
reasonable, since the little lady has so much to de in
“ Olivette,” but still it was resolved by some of those
interested in the success of the affair to try and induce
her to (not a rare thing with ladies) change her mind.
Miss Pattie after a little pressing, and all that sort of
thing, consented to sparkle—a determination which,
we are sure, when she takes a well-earned “ ben.” her-
self, she will by no means have cause to regret.
* * * 44-
Jimmy Ashton’s Circus was, at latest dates, at
Windsor. The local editor there is extremely eloquent
on the subject of the show, and praises with empresse-
went “ the skilful manipulations of Master Ned Ashton
on the tight-rope." Miss Maud Ashton is remembered,
and the Japanese not forgotten ; so the “old man,” we
suppose, went off to Richmond with an easy conscience,
where it is a case of Ashton under-lined.
44- 44- 44- 44-
The Walgott amateurs played “ Box and Cox,”
on the 12th instant, Messrs. Plummer and M‘Gregor
and a lady named Smith forming the cast. A corre-
spondent tells us great things of; Mrs. Smith. We
wonder whether, now, he should happenfto be Mr. Smith,
par hazard?
44- 44- 44- 44-
The Auckland Liberty has come out with a
portrait of Mr. Lyons (of Lyons’ Tourists), that will
prove extremely interesting to that gentleman’s friends
and relations. It represents a youth with a property
moustache, no perceptible parting to his matted locks,
and a head the shape of a padlock. His collar is half-
way down his chest, and there is a rim of fur round his
right ear. We don’t know who the artist is, as he has
had the extraordinary modesty not to sign his name;
but the engraver is evidently the local bellman, and the
weapon he has used to mutilate the wood with is a
crowbar. There will be another disturbance in that
office soon, unless they kill their artist. By the way,
there’s a job lot of misfit coffins at the Quarantine
ground that the Government want to sell cheap.
44- 44- 44- 44-
The Williamsons played in Marston’a “ Eureka”
up to Saturday week, in Adelaide, when they produced
“ The Pirates,” with Alice Rees as Mabel. The opera
was a tremendous draw. “ La Sonnambula” is to follow,
in which we hear Miss Alice is rather overweighted.
She is described as being p elite, and rather wooden
in manner, but manages her voice with great skill.
Some of the Melbourne critics have done their best to
spoil her at the outset of her career by the bestowal of
unlimited “ taffy," but we hope she has the sense (which
many young ladles have not) to see that she is not quite
a Nilsson or a Patti yet. Since reading the Weekly
Times notices on Miss Eees' performances, we are
fully willing to believe that she is a clever little lady.
There is no .moke without fire; so we suppose they
wouldn’t give Alice so much praise without some little
Beeson.
UN SANS CULOTTE.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Help us up with this into the cart, guv’nor,”
said a vanman to a gentle x- an who was passing in
Woollahra, pointing to a chest that had fallen out of
the cart into the road. “I am Sir Blank Blank,”
replied the gentleman, haughtily. “ Then all the more
reason," returned the man, “ you done plenty of it
when you was young.” And they lifted together.
• * *
“An Ashfield Girl” has sent us a poem, en-
titled “ Lament of the Single Ladies of the Suberbs "
(sic). We don’t say that the verses are not original, for
original poetry is a natural product of Ashfield, but we
have certainly read something very like them before.
However, even as Alfred believed “Ada," so will we put
our trust in “An Ashfield Girl." Her “ Lament” is,
that she wants a husband. She says:—
“They bow when they meet us, they say we look
charming,
Or the weather is cold —’tis the heart that wants warm-
ing;
They laugh and they chat, and they pass for our beaux.
Yet—’tis very provokeing— (sic) they never propose ;
If they knew all the graces and glances we learn
They surely would offer to make some return.”
It does certainly seem rather a hard case, and “An
Ashfield Girl” has all our sympathy. Perhaps, how-
ever, many of her admirers have been on the point of
proposing, and she has unwittingly choked them off.
Here is a wrinkle for her :—lf, when you are alone with
a gentleman in a shady alley, he puts his nose quite
close to your chin, and looks fixedly into your eyes,
while he squeezes your right hand with his left h-nd,
and uses his other one for fanning yon with a cabbage-
leaf, you may recognise in him an old hand at flirtation
—one who has no more marriage in him than M’Elhone
has poetry. But if under the same circumstances your
companion rubs his gloved hands as if he were washing
them, looks everywhere but at you, and has to clear
his throat every time before speaking, then you may
know there is something tangible hanging to it. Your
cue then is to burst into tears, and in a broken voice
exclaim—“ Joseph! I was h-happy before I saw-haw
you, but now—." A free use of a tolerably clean hand-
kerchief at this point will bring him to his knees on
the gravel. All rights reserved.
* * *
A gentle correspondent, signing “Esperanoe,”
sends us an “ Ode to the Moon," which he “ hopes ”we
“ will print," but, at any rate, he requests our " plain
unvarnished opinion" upon his work. We, of course,
hasten to oblige him. With a twang of the lyre, he
sings—
“ The side which is turned away from us for ever.
Always unseen, despite the endeavour
That mortals may make from this terrestial sphere ;
To thy Creator alone the secret is clear.”
And concludes —
“ So thus feebly surging thy beautiful light,
I wish thee, fair moon, a fervent good night! ”
This is the sort of poetry we like. It is as easy to
understand as a waggoner’s way-bill. The moon is a
fruitful subject. Romeo swore by her, and burglars
swear at her; but, in spite of all this, she is rather
Elayed out as a subject. A man named Milton tackled
er very often, and a poet called Byron (now dead, and,
of course, forgotten,) sawed away at her on several
occasions. In our own time, she is still popular as a
peg to hang rhymes on; and a careful contemplation of
our charwoman's chevelure of a morning will often
repay the observer by the discovery of “O Cynthia”
on one curl-paper, and “ Resplendent orb" on the other.
We think “ ’’ poetry is far more than
deliciously quite; and, if it pays him, we advise him to
go on writing it. If it doesn’t pay him, why the best
thing he can do is to take to charcoal-burning.
* * •
In a recent number of the Gundagai Times a
writer rejoicing in the captivating cognomen of R. W,
Perkins contributes an article (No. 5, if yon please) on
the “ Destiny of Russia." We have just finished spell-
ing through this Mr. Perkins’s effusion, and the con-
clusion we have come to is that either the editor is
very sick or else Mr. Perkins is. This is what he tells
us about the “ destiny” (whatever he means by that!)
of Russia:—“We have previously contemplated her
iniquitous career, and her terrible end; yet how few
think that with that latter event is connected the first
judgment-day Let us refer to the 9th and
10th verses of |the 7th chapter of Daniel. .. . The
latter part of the I9th chapter discloses how certain of
the wicked at that time will be cast into a lake burning
with brimstone It is after the first judg.
ment-day that the earth will enjoy peace for a thousand
years, the happiness of which period St. Barnabas, the
companion of St. Paul, writing in the apostolic age, so
forcibly points out. The 4th, sth, and|6th verses of the
20th chapter of Revelations are” .... But why
go on FWe have clipped these extracts because all the
rest of the article consists of quotations from the
scriptures. What we want to know is where “The
Destiny of Russia” comes in, and also, what in thunder
£oor old Danieljbas got to do with it ?R. W. Perkins,
owever, intends to persevere, for he writes—“A few
observations on chronology will form the subject of the
next contribution, for a clearer comprehension of what
has already been written.” .... Well, Perky, old
chap, don’t trouble on our account. Not all the
chronology or conchology in the world would ever
cause as to get the hang of your copy. What your
style principally wants in order to be attractive is con-
centration. You must begin, R. W., at the begining.
Take a turn, say for five years or so, at writing medicine
labels, and the improvement in your work will be
wonderful. And when you start afresh, don’t go
scratching up the dead-and-gone prophets. Leave old
Dan. alone. He never hurt you when he was living;
give him a rest, therefore, now he is no more. Besides,
how do you know how he would like having all he said
raked up by you,? It’sjjust on the cards that, like Sir
John, and other prophets, he has changed his political
opinions by this time. No, nol If you write about the
“ Destiny of Russia,” stick to your subject. You can’t
grasp it with one blucher in Palestine and the other in
Moscow. But if you can’t stick to your subject, the
least you can do is to stick to your shop. And of all
the tips wo have given you, E. W., this is the straightest #
* * *
They were walking down King-street—father
and son—the former, a Wesleyan elder; the latter, a
harum scarum youngster—when, suddenly, a pretty
girl passed, and, as she did so, smiled upon the son,
whose hat was off like a flash. “ What are you doing,”
cried the father, “ bowing to that woman ? Why she’s
one of the most notorious members of the demi-
monde.” “Then how do you come to know her, sir ?”
enquired the son. There was an awkward pause. Then
the old gentleman, when he had cleared his throat,
replied, “ She was pointed out to me by the City Mis-
sionary.” Every son should believe what his father
says, and we hope this one did, too. Still, if so, why
did he remark to a crony, later in the day, that he
never knew before what a giddy old boy his dada was ?
It's astonishing what a lot City Missionaries and—
salmon, have to answer for!
* * *
The D.T. reports re the Melbourne accident: —
“ The living sufferers are progressing favourably.”
Nothing is said about the dead sufferers, wo suppose,
because the D.T is hand in glove with Dr. Beg on the
subject of Hades. We should like to believe in Hell
ourselves —but we haven’t time. When a paper believes
in so many things, it is apt not to believe in grammar
and spelling. Not that we say, of course, .
* * *
We see by the screed of that giddy historian
who contributes English news to the Herald, that
King Kalakua, of the Sandwich Islands, wants a lot of
English, French, and German men to immigrate to his
territory, and marry Sandwich wives. Wo think this
is rather a good line for fellows who like a change, and
we recommend it seriously to the attention of those
young gentlemen who haunt the stage-door of—well, wo
won’t name the theatre —nightly, and gloat gloomily


from the dress-circle. That sort of thing comes ex-
pensive; whereas, in Honolulu or its environs, you can
keep a moderate-sized harem on about 10a. a year, and
the only dress your wives require is a yard of clothes-
line and a shingle—while they’ll think more of three
trousers-buttons, by way of jewellery, than a Sydney
belle would of the Koh-i-noor. If the men of mixed
nationalities do go, there will be lively times for the
King. He can parcel out the land as he promises, but
how can he parcel out the wives ? The least a German
would expect would be one to every 20 acres. We shan’t
go ourselves until we have consulted Mr. R. S. Smythe,
who is well up in the manners and topography of the
country.
* » •
The Christchurch Liberty has come out with a
new heading and anew editor. The former is rather
pale, and when the latter wrote his leader we should
imagine his pallor exceeded that of the heading. He
gajs :—“ That public opinion has of late been at vari-
ance with us on one particular point—if we take public
opinion as a fair reflex of the public mind —we can but
admit.” We have not the faintest idea as to who the
editor is, but his style resembles, in no small degree,
the magnificent literary efforts of the fiery Bayard who
was sent to the South Sea Islands by the—well, dear
public, you know. Still, it may not be the same man.
His brother, perhaps, or some near relation.
• • *
The hero of the hour is Mr. Reginald Bloxsome.
The other evening he had been making a call at an
hotel on one of the best of fellows, when, on entering
the gubernatorial abode, he surprised a full-sized bur-
glar in the act of making off with Gussy’s last new
over-coat —a garment presented to His Excellency, we
believe, by Peter the Great. To seize the miscreant
was the work of a moment, and to hand him chained
over to justice was but the work of another. And yet, to
think Reggy might not have been thus covered with glory
had he not happened on that night to have made a little
call on one of the beat of fellows 1 By the way, it’s
said that when Reginald proceeded to hand the burglar
over to the sentry he found that worthy asleep. The
policeman was also asleep—or otherwise engaged. It is
further related that when Reginald, with a whip in one
hand and a candlestick in the other, sternly asked of
the burglar-man, “ What the devil are you doing heah,
sir ?” the burglar-man laconically replied, “ Robbin’, yer
Hexcellency.” Whereupon the private secretary re-
turned, “You are a liah, sir—you’re robbing His
Excellency.” Another version is that the burglar
when surprised was on his hands and knees, and peering
beneath the sofa. He admitted with some reluctance
that he was a rival of Lord Augustus at poultry shows,
and that he was looking for Brahma-pootra eggs.
The right place for a carpenter is at the bench,
• but it doesn’t follow that the right place for a car-
penter should be on the bench.—[No italics or small
. caps, here, dear printer.]
• m •
Legal experts state that in their oases v.
M’Beath and Evers and Kennedy, the Municipal Coun-
oil have not a leg to stand upon. Curious enough, this
seems to he exactly the case with the Town Hall.
When, however, daring the hearing of the demurrer
oases, one of the defendants’ counsel remarked to a
well-known Q.C., on the other side, that he was out of
court —that gentleman, with a very significant glance in a
certain direction, retorted that was just where certain
Justices of the Peace ought to be. This exclamation
was succeeded by a moment’s silence, in which, as our
gifted contemporary remarked some time since, “ his
Honor the Judge heartily joined."
• • *
“I intend,” said a pompous J.P., while riding
on the box-seat of a Woollahra 'bus, the other evening,
-•« to give each of my daughters £IO,OOO when they
marry.” On this the driver turned immediately round
and said, “If Jthat’s the case, I can put you in the way
of making a cool thousand without delay.” “ What
d'ye mean ?’’ asked the magistrate, sharply. “ Why,
I’ll take the prettiest one with nine," was the reply.
Next day a long letter appeared in one of the news-
papers, headed “ The Studied Insolence of ’ Bus
Drivers,” and signed “Justitia.” P.S.—All the parties
are since dead, and lie in their graves. We believe the
man who sent us this yam, and said it is new, will lie
in his grave too.
* * *
The Gundagai paper says : —“ In the Small
Detbs Court, before Mr. i Love P.M., on Tuesday,
William Wilson sued Simon Wisden to recover £lO
damages, for slander. Mr. Perkins appeared for the
Slaintiff, whe deposed that on the 15th August, at
pring Flat, defendant said to him, * You stole the
timber, you thief; ’ in consequence of the use of
the words “he had suffered great grief, he had not
been able to sleep at night, and had become so ill that
ho could not walk.” And yet, we know men who are
daily openly accused by thousands of doing more than
■** stealing timber,” who not only sleep all night and
walk with a springy gait, but sit in judgment upon
their fellow-creatures. Mr. William Wilson has evi-
dently a thin skin. But, perhaps, he has never taught
in a Sunday school, and committed boys to prison for
stealing apples. Let him take the chair at a temperance
meeting a few times, and he will be utterly impervious
to scandal. Or, if he still feels a pang or two after that,
lot him give away the prizes at a school in a populous
suburb. Then not a dart or sling of outrageous fortune
could harm him.
“ What ! —you collecting money for a church?”
. cried the lawyer of a certain bush town in the sunny
< south-west, to a rather dissolute old squatter, who was
f oing round canvassing for subscriptions for the erec-
ion of a sacred edifice upon his own ground. “ I’m
glad to see you’ve turned religious, and if you will ex-
plain how the moral metamorphosis came about. I'll
come down with a couple of half-crowns.” The ancient
man of beeves chuckled. “ Why, you’re not half a
smart lawyer," he rejoined. “ Don’t you see that in a
few months the church will be shut up?” “Well,"
said the attorney, “ what then ?’’ “ Why, then I shall
be able to use it for a woolshed.”
* * •
A while since, a young man, nearly related to
a member of Parliament, somehow managed to get
his head broken. So he went to a doctor, who,
after examining the patient, told him he would have to
submit to an operation. Placing the injured youth
under chloroform, the surgeon then made an incision
round the scalp, and turned the top back like a lid. He
then took the brains out, put them in a basin to soak,
-and, being called away, just turned back the patient’s
-scalp, and left. Shortly afterwards the young gentle-
man, coming to himself, put on his hat, and walked
away. A few weeks later the his
patient, said, “ By the way, yon have left your brains
in my surgery. You’d better call round for them.
“I don’t require them now,” was the calm reply—
“l’ve got a billet in the Lands.”
* m •
The principal of a certain religions college, who
is more remarkable for Panglossian pedantry than for
familiarity with modern literature, took exception, the
other day, to some of his scholars devouring The Bulle-
tin. “ But,” remarked a precocious student, “ I saw
Mrs. reading ‘ Moths’ the other day.” “ And very
proper, too,” rejoined the pedagogue; “I am very glad
to hear of my wife’s fondness for works that have a
moral tendency.” He thought it was a tract.
* • •
“ Wanted, very attractive young Lady, for
the opening of fruit and confectionery business
in King-street; big wages and short hours.”—
S. M. Herald, September 10.
Now, if we were running a fruit shop, instead of the
most popular paper in the colonies, and wanted an
article of that sort, we should put it something in this
way:
However, we don’t want to run a fruit-shop ourselves,
just yet; there is a very nice one close by, that sends
us as much fruit as wo can—pay for ; but, to prevent
any mistakes, application had better be made in the
first instance at this office—personally, of course. Just
ask for the Editor.
* » *
The Parramatta Evening Ferguson is getting
cautious. It says :—" How could the sanitary condition
of the town be bad if the Mayor did his duty. That the
sanitary state of Parramatta is a disgrace to any civilised
community there can be no doubt. And the implica-
tion, therefore, is plain enough. In these days of libel
actions it would be unsafe to say more." Not at all!
Anyone connected with the Corporation of a town it is
the privilege of the world to abuse. You’ve tried your
hand at running down MM.P., John, so have a slap now
at a Municipal ruler; and take our tip, old fellow, that
in this instance—one of drainage—you will find the grey
Mayor to be the better horse.
« « •
“ A Young Poet ” sends us the following
Some time ago a howl was raised by the metro-
politan dailies respecting the scant information given
to them by the Infirmary officials concerning the
nature and the extent of the business done in that fes-
tive institution. We were young and artless then, and
didn’t understand what the dailies were driving at, but
we see it now in all its repulsive nakedness, and we can-
didly admit it betrays a fertility of invention worthy of
Julius Caesar in his best days. Taking up a penny
paper, we find 37 Infirmary squibs fillingjip ene issue;
and as all the other journals are in the same swim, we
cease to wonder why there are so many pressmen in
Sydney at present acting as honorary superintendents
to free-lunch brigades, and wearing hay-bands round
their feet, instead of French enamelled kids.
* * •
Asa sample of the cheerful, chatty style of the
pars, referred to, we clip the following:—“ Peter Schute,
a German, accidentally fell down off the zinc roof of a
small hut at Petersham, on Monday last. He dropped
on his head a distance of 1200 feat. He was at once ad-
mitted to the Infirmary, where his wounds were dressed,
and we are happy to state he now lies in a most pre-
carious state. Strange to say, the hut did not receive
the slightest injury." Now, that’s quits a gem in it’s
way. You see, this German, Schute, was accidentally
shot off the zinc roof, and fell down 1200 feet- This
points at once to a marked peculiarity in the tempera-
ment of the Teutonic race. An Irishman, for example,
would have fallen 1200 feet upwards. A Frenchman
would have thrown himself deliberately down; and after
spilling the whole of his internal machinery about the
pavement, he would carefully dust his boots with his
handkerchief, and skip briskly off, looking as pleased as
he went as a dog with a tin tail, or a C.M.G. on the top
of a three-penny two-horse 'bus. On the other hand,
an “Amurrikun” citizen would have waited until it
was dark, and he’d then sling the hut on his back and
sell it to the City Corporation for a Town Hall; whilst an
Italian would knock his head through the zinc, and then
tumble over, dragging the whole of the hut on top of
him, after which he would excitedly request the crowd
to sit down in front, and let him see when Vesuvius
was going to “ buck up" again and start another
eruption.
# # *
Item the second has a sort of romantic ring
about it, and rips along in this style:—"Yesterday
morning, about 4 p.m., on Sunday, a green-haired man,
dressed in a pair of calico eyebrows and a wooden shirt,
shut himself up in the bed-room of an empty house,
which was occupied at the time by a Baptist minister
and the rest of a travelling circus company, and then
deliberately committed arsenic by swallowing a large
dose of suicide. The corpse afterwards held a coroner
on the inquest, and the verdict returned a jury that the
deceased died from natural causes, accelerated by being
banged in the head by a motor, and leaving a child and
ten small wives to mourn the life of his untimely death.
“ P.S. —In connection with the above, we submit that
gentlemen of the press should receive a little better
accommodation when attending amusements of this
kind than they do at present. Our reporter asserts
that during the whole time he was taking notes of this
particular case, he saw big blue snakes, with crimson
teeth and green tails, crawling all about the floor, and
that the jurymen were accompanied by mad dogs. and
smoked cigarettes made ont of barbers’ poles and filled
with sulphur."
We needn’t say where we culled that fragrant flower
—need we ?
# » *
A little farther on we read! : —‘ ‘ A team of brewers’
vans was attached to a spring horse was proceeding along
the Glenmore-road on Monday next, the 11 ultimo, when
they caught side of old Carlyle’s photo, in the Town and
Country Journal, and at once took fright and bolted.
An old lady, who happened to be going up Church Hill
at the time, rather foolishly attempted to stop their
mad career by holding out her skirts, andyeljing ‘ Sho !’
and the consequence was she was immediately knocked
down and killed. She was afterwards taken to the
Infirmary, and is now doing as well as can be expected.
Her husband intends suing the T. and C. proprietors
for leaving such dangerous missiles about the pave-
ment. as he says his wife made herself very useful by
washing and earning money to enable him to buy
tobacco and rum, and other necessaries."
„ » •
It certainly never occurred to us that the public
shrieked for Infirmary information as loud as wo find it
does; but we have secured the services of a thoroughly
reliable reporter, who never saw the inside of a temper-
ance lodge in his life, and wholisn’t very much mad to
see it in death, either Just mark the improvement in
style in which we sling the agony business.
INFIRMARY.
The following persons have been “ infirmaryed’’
during the week, and as many as were entered "in bulk”
have been most religiously buried. No complaints were
made—no unseemly conduct permitted; legs, arms,and
heads were removed at a moment’s notice, and all passed
off nice and lovely. A tone was lent to the entertain-
ment by the distinguished presence of the Hon. R.B.
We append the programme :—
1. Samuel Smith, small-pox. A paternal Govern-
ment cared for Sam, and the Ambulance Burial Troupe
will therefore start him along at 2 p.m. to-morrow.
Undress uniform—side arms, and shovels.
2. Washington Wobbles’ wife sat up in her bed
last Saturday morning at fifteen minutes to 3, and
earnestly requested to be informed what time that was
for any honest man to be coming home from prayer-
meeting? Mr. Wobbles immediately informed her
eleven times on the head with a meat-axe. Off she goes
in the bandbox.
3. Little Jimmy Johnson’s ma took him down to
Paddy’s Market to see the Blondin. Next day Jimmy
thought he could tramp along the telegraph wire and
balance himself with a broom-handle. But he didn’t
have any place to rest the handle, so Jimmy’s proces-
sion is fixed for Tuesday, The Newtown brass band
will be in attendance.
4. Michael Flaherty, policeman, found a drunken
man, on Monday last, and forgot to search his pockets
or use any other kind of restorative. Next day it was
discovered the inebriate had 7s. 63. on him, and Michael
immediately had forty-nine high pressure fits, and ttoen
died a raving madsoan.
5. Tennyson Byron Blncher couldn’t tell prussic
acid from P.B., on Friday night —and he can’t do it now,
either. His disconsolate widow would like to corres-
pond with a man who can wear a 6J hat, of a religions
turn of mind, and who keeps a “kerridge.”
6. Thackeray Forbes Caphipps, a Pitt-street jour-
nalist, stepped out of a third-story window on Sunday
last, in order to be in time for church. _ This case is all
the more painful as deceased was paid in full on the
previous Saturday.
7. Augustus Jerks, “ a pushing young particle,”
—what’s the next article ?—“ out-of-the-way young
man,” got a holiday on the 10th, to shoot the North
Shore gil-birds. To-day, he’s more ont-of-the way
than ever,
8. Saunders M'Slooshie sat down on a leaky can
of dynamite, to-day, in a factory shop in George-street.
He was subsequently discovered on the top of a church
in Parramatta, with a somewhat astonished look on his
face, and wearing an unusually large-sized window-sash
as a sort of necktie.
9. Thomas Toodles thought he could jerk the
“ Cup Day ” tram-cars, but he was hardly fit. And so
the cars jerk’d Tommy. The fragments were then
gathered up, and filled seven baskets.
10. It was remarked by Loo Ping,
He’d tie his neck with a string;
And ’twould be afterwards found
That his big toes touched the ground.
But the ground slipped away,
And it grieves us to say
That we planted Loo Ping
On the very next day.
Hooray.
Fatalities Focussed.
Jefferson Jinks, laudanum; Martha Brown,
kerosene fire-encouraging; Bildad Thompson, tram-
carred ; William Wilson (aged 2), waterholed; Roger
Podmore, —old yarn—didn’t know the thing was loaded ;
Rufus Redman, footballed; Sarah Starchem, Hennes-
syed; Jonas Jackson, injured at a “ neck-tie sociable;"
and Bridget Barker, called her genial lord “ another.”
This closes a most pleasing week’s amusement.
V.
He : “ Angelica, why, why do you dart away
from me like the frightened dove ; what have I done ?
Nay, but has some villain come between üb, and robbed
me of thy ?’’ She: “Nonsense. I've only been
vaccinated on both arms.”
The Saturday Review relates how a school-
boy, from one of the Board Schools in England,
recently informed the examiners that " Magna Charta
was introduced into England for the purpose of pre-
venting the people from idolatrously worshipping the
place where Moses died." Not half as good as the
Hindoo scholar, who wrote that after Oliver Cromwell
killed Charles I. be was never seen to smile again, and
that in his last moments he was heard to say, “ Oh!
what a rogue and mnddy-pated slave am I, If I had
only served my God as I served my king, I could now
make my quietus with a bare bodkin."
WOMAN ITEMS.
Miss B. O’Brien, for 9 years housemaid at
Stutt’s Hotel, Melbourne, has married a Mr. Shannon,
worth £25.000.
Rosa Bonheur is 58 years old. Sho has often
been paid at the rate of $lOO a day for painting, and she
sent her first picture to the Salon when but 19.
The Princess of Wales now rides on the opposite
side of the saddle to that usually adopted by ladies.
She has already found numerous imitators in London.
The other day quite a crowd gathered in
Bourse-street, Melbourne, while a youug lady quite
coolly stood up and had her boots blacked at one of the
boxes in the street.
Tell a woman that her lips out-rival rubies, and
she will smile sweeter than condensed honey; but only
just insinuate the same about her nose, and she will
wither you up with a glance of fiery scorn and indigna-
tion.
A Ballarat woman, who, when a widow, 18
months ago, married a sergeant of police, and endowed
him with her worldly goods, consisting of a £3OOO
house and £5OOO cosh, is sueiug for divorce. She was
60, and he on the shady side of 59, when the wedding
took place.
“ What is your consolation in this life ? ” asked
a clergyman of a blooming damsel of 17, in a Bible
class that he was catechising. The young lady blushed
and hesitated. " Will you not tell me ? ” urged the
clergyman. " I don’t want to tell his name," said the
ingenuous maiden, " but I’ve no objection to telling
you where he lives."
The Standard (London) regards marriage as
an institution specially and peculiarly belonging to
man’s original condition as a farmer. A young man
needs a mate the moment he is moved by the ambition
to plant his own potatoes. Hence, in South Australia,
where the small wheat-growers are numerous, the
marriage rate is high, whereas among the stock-raisers
of Victoria and New South Wales it is low.
At New Plymouth, N.Z., the other day, a girl of
14 arrived in town, bringing with her a highly inoppor-
tune and improper baby. It was late at night, and she
had no friends. A barmaid took pity on her, gave her
some money, and got her a bed. In the morning the
child was found dead. Verdict: “Died from suffoca-
tion, caused by the mother wrapping her shawl too
tightly round it to protect it from the cold."
Dr. Mary Walker bases her claims to enter Con-
gress on the following alleged qualifications :—Her
understanding of Parliamentary rules, the methods of
business in the various committees, and business
generally that relates to the duties of the United States
senator; her ability as a ready speaker on subjects of
legislative import; her ownership of a brain that is
never made abnormal by the use of anodynes or stimu-
lants; her ignoring attire that destroys health, ruins
morals, and deranges finances ; her moral courage and
moral worth—these combined excellencies guarantee
both faithfulness and fitness.
At Kaipara, N.Z., a Maori chief, who had been
“converted" by the missionaries, had one wife, but
wanted to marry another—a one-eyed maiden. Some of
his people, who were pious, beeame greatly scandalised,
and hurled Scripture at him. But fho chief replied,
“ The Bible says, ‘ Whoso getteth a wife getteth a good
thing:’ therefore, whoso getteth two wives getteth two
good things. Solomon had a thousand wives and con-
cubines. He was not more than five hundred times as
good as I am—consequently, I am entitled to at least
two. Then the New Testament says : *lf thine eye be
single, then is thine whole body full of light.* My
beloved’s eye is single—therefore she will be the joy of
my life, and the light of my home.”
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Melbourne police will stop the march of the
Salvation Army. The leaders are to be prosecuted.
Rev. Dr. Cani will administer the R.C. diocese
of Brisbane, pending the appointment of a successor to
Bishop O’Quinn.
A gentleman, at Hay, has offered a site for a
cathedral, or for a bishop’s residence, should the new
diocese be formed.
The Rev. H. A. Barker has resigned the incum-
bency of St. Mary's, Waverley. He goes to England
by the Cathay on the 23rd.
The English Roman Cathplio Conservatives are
desirous of Bishop Vaughan, of Salford, receiving the
Cardinal’s hat on the demise of Cardinal Manning, who
is too easy-going in politics for their liking. Bishop
Vaughan is brother to Archbishop Vaughan, of Sydney.
The ’Frisco Evening Post states that Inger-
soll’s copyrighted infidel lecture was published in
Chicago, and he is going to sue the publisher. The
defence set up is novel. The publisher claims that the
law does not recognise, and therefore cannot protect, a
blasphemous production as property.
Mr. Stewart, the supporter of the Rev. Chas.
Strong, whom the Melbourne Presbytery have censured,
has received a handsome presentation, prior to his
departure for Europe. The Hon. J. G. Francis, who
made the presentation, was cheered when he stated
that Mr. Stewart had the sympathy of the entire
community.
Mr. Caton, a benevolent young Melbourne
clergyman, who is visiting chaplain to the city gaol,
was so wrought on by a young prisoner, named Hamil-
ton, that he gave the latter an asylum at his own bouse
after coming out of prison. Hamilton lived at Mr.
Caton’s five weeks, and then bolted, having not only
stolen a diamond ring, a watch, and a card-case, from
his benefactor, but also forged his signature to a
cheque. Nine months.
The English bishops, in conjunction with some
of the leading Non-conformist clergy, having issued an
invitation for general prayer for relief from the lawless-
ness and godlessness, from the luxury and self-indul-
gence, from the disputes, heresies, and doubts, in religi-
ous matters, which are the bane of our day, the London
World remarks that “ It is deplorable and contempti-
ble to see a number of professional teachers of religion,
all of them well-to-do, and enjoying every luxury which
money can command, addressing their countrymen in
this fatuous spirit."
The other evening, at a Balmain church, a
young fellow was taking down the sermon in shorthand,
when the good clergyman roared out, in ferocious
tones : “ I think that young man had bettor stop that
nonsense.” Clergyman never sees the children (aged,
say from 19 to 22) who giggle, occasionally with reason,
during the vespernal discourse. A certain distin-
guished young lady of our acquaintance—now dead, we
believe, —used to tell ns that “Spoken nonsense
perishes, written follies endure.” Perhaps that’s the
philosophy of the Balmain parson.
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
It is amusing to notice how suddenly many of
the so-called people’s representatives, are awaking to
the need that the working man has for relief from
heavy taxation, which presses so miequally upon him.
The tax on imported meat was to be got rid of “in a
jiffey”—so said the gallant “Meejor" when seeking
election three years back; —heavy toxes ou tea, sugar,
articles of dress, and mining tools were all to be re-
duced —yet where are the reductions? and echo an-
swers, where ? The present session closes Parliament,
and, it is hoped, the Parliamentary career of 10 out 32
M.L.A’s. (Hobart itself could allow three out of the
five).
It would perhaps be uncharitable to suppose
there were more unmarried ladies living in Hobart than
elsewhere, ostensibly as having visited the Temple of
Hymen, but a curious question was propounded at a
public meeting in the Town Hall of Hobart, the other
evening. A medical gentleman having referred to the
case of a child which had been vaccinated with “im-
pure lymph” was taunted ungenerously by an opponent
because he refused to give the name of the mother—he
very pithily and promptly asked his opponent, “ Would
he give the names or state the number of unmarried
females, whose accouchements be had attended ?"
JOHN AND IKEY.
This is a very mournful tale
(So when you’ve read it, it will strike ye).
Just listen to these words and quail—
A slight’s been offered to our They !
It was a base conspiracy
(The thing we’ll tell you in a minute) ;
The Princes didn’t Ikey see—
Base plot! The C.M.G. was in it.
The boys with John to Randwick came
(Dear oily John, you’re e’er In clover!)
But Ike, director of the same.
Got his invite —when all was over.
Then Ikey stormed ;—John did a grin
Upon the man of regal rental, —
And said (Ike swears it is "too thin ”) ;
“ The circumstance was accidental.”
Oh ! what a lot of gas and blow,
Oh 1 what a lot of toil and trouble ;
Oh! what a lot of rot, you know.
There is in this great social bubble 1
CHAOS.
Rush beat Laycock with much ease
(This is written without bias),
Although the betting, if you please.
Was two to one upon Elias.
At a little later hour,
Mick was licked by Pearce and Power;
Then came a contest mildly fierce.
And Laycock licked both Pow’r and Pearce.
If Power and Pearce now Laycock beat.
Why, chaos, then, would be complete I
There’s an ornament wanted in town —
A dashing young lady, to sell
Pies and tartlets (deliciously brown).
And, sometimes, the buyers as well.
A belle, to enliven the street.
Give a “ tone” to the shop by her style.
Sell fruit and confections so sweet.
And make them more sweet with her smile.
The applicant, ladies, must be
Of the best type of beauty that is ;
Her manners—well, pleasantly free,
And her hair in the latest new “ friz.”
All aglow with the blackness of night.
Or the sapphire of seas and of skies,
With expression “ too utterly quite,”
Must be the dark depths of her eyes.
Her dresses must always look new.
And fashion dictate her attire ;
Her cheeks have that delicate hue
Which the opposite sex so admire.
Her cuffs must be faultlessly neat.
She must show teeth as white as a pearl.
In fact, all the items complete
Which make an attractive young girl.
She must be, to all comers, polite;
Must have no particular beau.
But smile on all —morn, noon, and night—
And never get tired or slow.
And if she is quick with her tongue—
Understands repartee and retort —
And withal, is both pretty and young.
Why, then, she is just the right sort.
There’s only just one other thing.
Though, indeed, it’s a sine qud non.
She must thoroughly know how “to string,"
And pretend to get young fellows “ on."
This isn’t a difficult trick,
With practice it’s easy enough,
For a girl, if she’s pretty and chic,
Can “ have” almost any young muff.
The bon-bons and fruit may be dear.
But, then, when they’re bought from a belle,
What on earth does the gilded youth core ?
Hang expense! that’s a mere bagatelle I
His cash he will recklessly pay—
Or submit to be mildly “ lambed down,”
If it’s done in a ladylike way
By the best-looking girl in the town.
THE SPECTRES’ HOUR,
Faulconbridge, at midnight.
Is quietly at rest.
But the nightmare broodeth
Upon the Premier’s breast.
Twenty pustuled spectres
Walk slowly up to him;
Variola’s victims,
So silent, ghastly, grim.
Marching slowly, sadly.
Defaced with horrid marks,
All with pitted faces.
Defiling up to Parkea.
Each pale spectre passing
Holds out a pustuled thumb.
With grimaces livid.
As mournfully they come.
From their lime graves open.
And from the Faraway,
They come ; and oh! how Henry
Doth wish them far away!
Fading from his vision,
With feeble steps and slow —
Pustuled, pitted, pining—
The shadowy yictims go.
Twenty tramwayed corpses
Now silently process;
Now he hears the wailings
Of children fatherless.
Widows, who, with weeping.
Have swollen eyes all red.
Gather with their orphans.
Around Sir ’Enry’s bed!
In his fear he cowers.
Till, like a demon white,
Leaps he from his chamber
Into the haunted night.
These the dreary phantoms
Round Faulconbridge that roam.
That affright Sir ’Enry,
And haunt his mountain home.


Public Companies
T
HE MERCANTILE BANK OF SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £116.894
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.Q., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Bnsby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Qidley King, M.L.C.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY;
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Qeorgo-street Brickfield Hill, and Redfera.
LONDON BANKERS;
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director—Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all nanal Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
Other nroduce shipped to England for sale.
COTTISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE
1 COMPANY,
CAPITAL £1,000,000.
FIRE RISKS AT LOWEST RATES.
INGLIS. NIXON, & CO.,
Chief Agents for N.S.W.,
7 BRIDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
Sub-Agents wanted in Town and Country.
O T I
C
CRIPPS’ CATERING COMPANY,
E.
Having taken those COMMODIOUS PREMISES one
door from Hunter-street, in Elizabeth-street, where
Parties can be supplied
with a
LARGE ROOM
for
HOT DINNERS or MEETINGS,
BALL PARTIES Ac.
P.
R. L A R K I
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND QIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
N.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 George-street West (late Parramatta-street),
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholrsale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH.
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
Forty years’ testimony for curb
OF INDIGESTION, by
PROFESSOR THOMSON’S INDIGESTION PILLS.
•• This is to certify that I have been for forty years
suffering from Indigestion. In fact, so bad that the
bowels refused working.
" I have much pleasure in stating that, since I have
taken the Indigestion Pills, I am qnite cured of the
omplaint, and can safely recommend them to anyone
S itiering from the same malady.
“ P. M'Cabeoll,
11 209 Parramatta-street, Sydney,
« Nov. 24,1879.”
PROFESSOR THOMSON'S INDIGESTION PILLS
are sold in boxes. Is. 6d., 35., and 4s. fid. each, by most
medicine vendors, and by SIMS A P ARSES, Herbalists,
210 George-street.
jJBLBOURNE CIT ® 1881.
H. N. ABBOTT’S
ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION OP PRIZES
ON TUB
MELBOURNE CUP.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT JEI EACH.
Bankers —National Bank of New Zealand, Auckland.
about 250 prises.
First Horse £l5OO
Second Horse £7OO
Third Horse £4OO
Other Starters (divided) £l5OO
Non-Starters (divided) £2700
Ten Prizes at £lOO each £lO6O
Twenty Prizes at £5O each £lOOO
One Hundred Prizes at £l2 each £l2OO
£lO,OOO
Please add exchauge to cheques; but P.O. Orders or
Bank Drafts preferred. Australian Bank notes not
received. Two stamps for reply and result.
Mb. ABBOTT has for upwards of twelve years suc-
cessfully conducted Sweepstakes on all the leading
events throughout the Australian colonies, during
which time he has paid away over A HUNDRED
THOUSAND POUNDS sterling.
H. N, ABBOTT,
Treasurer,
United Service Hotel, Auckland,
June, 1881. New Zealand.
H.
A. ABBOTT,
BOOKSELLER AND STATIONER,
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
(five doors from pitt street).
Every description of Plain and Fancy Stationery at
lowest possible prices.
A TRIAL SOLICITED.
AGENT for Melbourne AGE and LEADER.
A
UNADULTERATED ■
6AH/NG POWDER
£v
m
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880,
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877, 1881. D©., Bathurst, Goulburn, Mndgee*
Singleton, Windsor, &o.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDEE THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Haa all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depot,
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND C O.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Public Compan
(10ENWALL PIEE AND Id
J ANCE COMPAN
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Bisks accepted by
G. A. LLOYD AH
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEE
SIDNEY.
IHE MUTUAL ASSUEANC
VICTORIA (LIMIT!
Established a.d. 18'
NEW SOUTH WALES
9 Wynyard-street, Sy
Directors:
John Keo,p Esq., Chau
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq
Andrew Drysdale, Esq,
This Society is established for Life
granting of Annuities and Endowme
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding t
proportionate amount of the entire
Society at every distribution thereoi
LOANS granted on Mortgage or oi
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. a
Be
JNCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKING
CIAli PROVIDENT SOCIEI
This Society provides a certain fixe
members when thrown out of emplo
Medical attendance during sickness
age, and when incapacitated from foil
ment through disease or accident; an
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influence
suitable re-engagemei
For further particulars, apply to
Q. HORTON MORRI!
Secretary
Wentw
Eli
Applications for Agencies
Photographer!
The Really Popular (and cheap) P]
805 GEORGE STB
Opposite the Railway Ter
Especially esteemed for his portra;
Children.
Cartes de visite 7s 6d per
BOABTT’S STI
f«SB
MANUFACTOEY:
BON-ACCOED
WOEKS,
8 MACQUAEIE PLACE
SYDNEY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, See. ; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoke. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace •
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gras and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
THE “PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BABSOW & Co.'s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancbt.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TEESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
railing off in all cases of Pebrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
THREE PRIZES.
PARIS, 1378.
STDN E X, 1880
i mi
PEICES APPEOXIMATELY SAME AS GALVANIZING.
The RUSTLESS & GENERAL
IRON Co.,
3 Queen’s Place, Cannon-Street,
LONDON, E.C.
ANTI-CORRODO (Barff’s) TUBES
& FITTINGS,
For Gas, Steam, and Water; also Black (not
treated) Galvanized and Enamelled
LAPWELDED BOILER TUBES,
Sole Agent for the Australian Colonies—
W. MONTAGU COWARD,
19 Hunter-street, Sydney.
Quotations given for every description of
Ironwork and all requirements for Bail-
ways, Wharfs, and Mining Companies.—
Unlike Galvanizing, it affords a perfect
protection to the Iron, being, as claimed,
Eustless and Incorrodible.
rjIHOS. J. SOWN & co.
ENGINEERS, BEASSPOUNDESS,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, Ac.
PUMPS OP ALL KINDS. SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHUEBT-STREET, SYDNEY.
rjnHE INDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY’S
Fine Blended Indian TEAS
Are without doubt the PUREST and CHEAPEST ever
offered te the Public.
EVERYONE OUGHT TO TRY THEM.
To be obtained at
705 GEORGE STREET, HAY MARKET.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.


Frospectu
PE O S P E
of the
OEANGE SLAUGH
and
NEW SOUTH WALES FEOZI
COMPANY, lim:
Capital; £50,000, in 10,000 shares o;
to increase to £I(X
£1 per share upon application, £1
ment, Ist Call of £1 three moi
and calls not to exceed £1 per
of not less than three months
Provisional Direc
A. T. Kerr, Esq., M.L.A., We
James Dalton, Esq., J.P. (D
and Si dney.)
Edward Heaton, Esq. (Wrigl
Limited.)
Hon. John Smith, M.L.C., Ga
John A. Gardiner, Esq., J.P.,
T. L. Eichardson, Esq., J.P.,
James Eishmond, Esq., J P., !
H. C. White, Esq , J.P., Glens
J. B. Bundle, Esq., J.P., Form
James Rutherford, Esq., J.P.,
George Lee, Esq., J.P., Leeho
F. A. Wright, Esq. (Wright
Limited.)
F. H. Moore, Esq. (Dalgety, B
Walter E. Hall, Esq , J.P. (Co
Tho aas Dalton, Esq., J.P. (Di
T. F. Waller, Esq. (represei
trough and Co )
William Allison, Esq., jun., J.
Bankers :
AUSTEALIAN JOINT SI
Brokers:
CLEMENTS and M'CABTHY, Be
BUEKE, COULSON, and I
Orange and Sydney
C. J. BUCKLAND, Exchange, Syc
This Company is being re-form
acquiring additional capital, to an
extend operations rendered imper
ing demands made npon them fc
with prime meat, ana to freeze
graziers' account, for the English
For full particulars of freehold
previous issues of this paper, and
the Sydney Maid, Town and
Queenslander, and Australasia]
Investors may confidently exp
rate of 15 per centum per annum.
Deposits on shares will be recoil
Joint Stock Bank, head office, hr
throughout the colonies, and by tl
furnish prospectuses on applicati
information about the Company.
Tobaoconisl
J.EVE . 'TOBACCO
JAMES E
No. 149 KING £
(Opposite Theatre Eoyal St
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars c
Pipes mounted and ami
149 KING STEI
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGI
MILD, PRAGEANT, &
Chemists and Dr
CAUTION. —In our style (
sudden changes of temp<
and sunshine often intermingle
it is no wonder that our chi
relatives are so frequently tal
looted colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of 23
Syrup kept about your horn
will prevent serious sickness, a
and perhaps death, by the u
doses For curing Consumpl
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Ci
of the Throat or Lungs, its sue
derful, as your druggist wi
Syrup is now sold in every
this continent. Sample bott
regular size, 3s. Wholesale .
BROTHERS.
OG ALL A L A 1
was introduced into
two years ago, where thousands
—and one year in Sydney; and soi
of Rheumatism have been cured
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long sti
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear 1
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured 1
HEAD OFFIC
89 WATEELOO-EOAD,
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STEF
S. W. GAMBLE, Pr
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESAt
STREET, SYDN
MANZANITA PE
TET THEM.
The best medicine ever invented
Thousands of people in Sydney 1
have been cured of Biliousness, ]
ness, Sick Headaches, and all con
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATERLOO ;
and 107 CASTLEEEAGH STI
S. W. GAMBLE, Pr.
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLE
PITT STREET, ST
ALL OF P
(Late Fklminghj
78 KING ST
Dispensing Establish
Pure Drugs and Chemicals,
Toilet requisites, &c. Patent Me<
English marked price. All article
D. HALE. 1
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER F
FOE
INDIGEST
AND
STOMACH COMPI
•** They are also much recomir
tivo for Females, being safe, ger
their operation, leaving no dispo
and being free from any tenden
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer
F. E. SLO
DISPENSING ESTABLISHME]
OXFORD STREET
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILL
THE GREAT LIVES
And successful substitute for (
Podophyllum, and all No
Famous as a Restorative to Hea
Famous as an Invigorator of th<
Famous for the Cure of all Disoi
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Toni
fives cold, and
he most delicate of either sex,
4-n
Chemists and Dr
14 OXFORD STE
Near Hyde Park
(N.B. —The Tram-car etc;
W. D. EAMES, P
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLE]
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and Ne’
W. D. E. thanks the public an
for the support hitherto accorded 1
Irrespective of Club proscriptio
has dispensed 34,000 original pres
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAI
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOE TH
Every prescription is CAEEFU
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbe
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIOEST
May be easiest cored by the foil
E AME S’S QUINI
Which improves the appetite a
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGEST
For severe cases where the gasti
and when sickness and flatulei
E AME S’S COMPOUND ANT]
Which relievo the bowels gently, i
naturally healthy functions
organs.
PRICES—I/-. 1/6, 2/6
PREPARED ONL'
W. D. EAMES, CHEMIST,
R
OBEET BUTC
(Late William L(
WINE AND SPIRIT MI
534 GEORGE STB
OPPOSITE TOWN HAL!
Country Orders Rmckive Pr
8
HEEIDAN & F
STOCK AND SHARE 1
94 PITT-STEEI
SYDNEY,
Henry A. Sheridan, formerly M
mercial Bank, Maitland.
Jambs Fdllford, of West Maitla
Uf D A t> m * -vr m
Business Annonr
tLBGAL.J
SHOETEE, FITZGEEALi
SOLICIT©
69 CASTLEEEAGH STEE
and
MACQUAEIE STSEEI
Mr. Shorter, Notarj
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M.
SOLICITOE, has <x
practice of his profession, a
PITT-STEEET, opposite
News Office.
Ul AND F. W
DEAUGHTSI
AND
Enghavbbs on
LAND. ASBUEANCE, AND G:
All matters carried ont prompt!
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STE
w
H. A E
PEOVISION MEEC
AND OENEEAL COMMISS
343 amd 345 Kknt-strkbt, ni
SOLE AGENT for the undermenti
E. Whittingham A Co.'s Lond
Geo. Benoraft & Co.’s Victoria
Swallow A Ariell's Victorian I
Cakes
J. Kitchen A Son’s Victoria Toi
Dillon A Burrows’ Victoria Co
A. M. Hunt A Co.’s Goulbum
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, nei
AVID a
14, Hunter-street, Sj
SADDLES AND HAENE
By special appointi
To his Eoyal Highness the Duk<
Excellency the Eight Hon. tl
His Excellency Sir Hercules I
and His Excellency Lord
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newea
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentler
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868, 1870,
£JHEAPEST AND BES"
AT
MASK ISAACS’ COEPOEAI
HAY STEEET, HATM
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally ohea
Goods packed and delivered free <
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTET STOEEKEEPEES LII
WITH.
AG. 0 H U E C
• 147 YO E K STS
Opposite the Marki
IMPOETEE AND MANUPA
Coffee, Peppers, Spic
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUE
CHEAPEST HOUSE IE
for Liverpool and Black Hors
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hi
TEAMWAT TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
Q E O C E E S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN. SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
198 OXFOED STEEET
(Opposite Court-house},
DAEtIKGHUBBI,


FJIHE INDIAN TEA ROOMS.
PURE FRAGRANT INDIAN TEA,
Fresh from the Gardens, grown under European super,
vision, and sold in Original Packages, 101 b and upwards.
Samples, Press Notices, Analyses, and Price Lists on
Applic i.tion.
Special Rates for Large Orders,
A delicious Tea in the cup. No Chinese admixtures.
Goes twice as far as the best Chinese teas.
We challenge comparison with our INDIAN TEAS
for Leaf, Strength, Flavour, and Analyses, sgainst all
or any of the China teas imported this season.
INGL I S, nTxON, & CO..
INDIAN PRODUCE MERCHANTS,
INSURANCE AND GENERAL AGENTS,
7 Bridge-street Chambers.
LIVE STOCK MARKET.
Having secured the services of Mr. JEFF. BUCK-
LAND, well-known in Victoria and Riverina as a Live
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to assure my friends and
all interested in the SALE of FAT or STORE STOCK,
and STATION PROPERTIES, that every attention
shall be directed to this branch of the business; and I
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite sure that the prac-
tical knowledge, attention, and straightforwardness
which have made my Wool and Produce Business such
a success, will entitle me to the confidence of all who
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and in the City twice
a week ; allowances made on all Stock or Stations in-
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales handed over twice
a week, or when required on days of sale.
Further information if applied for.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MAfeON BROTHERS,
wardSsSH.
14 & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps end Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
I
I BN
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
w.
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
G,
352 George-street.
S ■ !
■HHrail
-J
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
BEARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
COLLAED and COLLAED,
SOUFLETO,
BERDEN and CO.,
TEOST
AUCHBE,
PALING and CO.,
And other First-class Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
hy
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO.,
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PERE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET,
OPPO TE WYNYARD STREET
SYDNEY.
T
AKB
NO
MORE
PILLS
but try
ESO
EANDEESON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES,
Do yon SUPFEE from HEADACHE P
Then try Sanderson's
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES I
Do yon constantly suffer from Biliousness P
H so remember Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
will soon cure, if token as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any|ofyour children .ickat any time? You
can safely give Jien one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
•ST Eemembei this, and always keep a box of hit
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWAED EOW and COMPANY
45 and 47 Qeorge-street.
B
Y ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDEE OP THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTEALI AN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales.
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YE AES
that it is impossible that the public could have_ been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instan*
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it and
JOSEPHSON'S AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
ana miraculous cures, are
THE WONDEE OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
handg and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
oaspalities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDEE OF THE AGE
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by nsing
Josephson’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment P _ „
Who would suffer from Soft Coma when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Bums and Scalds when they
con have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rom dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand P
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
eSeoted, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pu e green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants fro>> which it is made,
and totally free frem any and all c eterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOE JOSEPHSON’S AUSTEALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guar an ted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
’Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots. Is.
and Is 0d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWAED EOW & COMPANY.
M
>9l*
il
Si::*.
:i *
"ISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STEEET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT, and WOEKMANSHIP.
grains for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Co.ony.
For VENETIAN BLINDS,
TRI
W O R M A L D,
112 OXFORD STEEET.
B
URKE, COULSON, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLBEOKERS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY
And OEANGE.
I
-Ml
lllgls
\\
mm
CREo
K ,\| geSTRA
RES
cu
800
L A
M AHK-L2
ALU
--7 ' ‘
)H£P-S
, MPQS
*lBn*
or ~mi £
kiU
SB
zda**z
> i
*wSm
r* ■ i
E •-■••■
i»SS»W
n-lrniann-iiti^jj.;
iIUWvMUUIWA*.* IMUUL\*i^»iv\»«Le£r^itfxNzacXvwv^^ u V'W' 1 1 1
VZv
9**lMA
mms
««■
mm
m
mm
aavjfes
W¥e&
f.m\i
mmmmj'
flB "*
ALARMING SALE OE BOOTS AND SHOES
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE .
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOB ONE MONTH ONLY.
GOWIN6 BROTHERS’ i° s *><i double texture twilled
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, un Foie’s Paragon
332 Se SOO Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five oases of the above
GEORGE STREET. opened this week. We need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
GOWING BROTHERS’
332 & 500
GEORGE STREET.
READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s. The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
shrunk and well cut. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
ATT. GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD JOR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
532 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 6th September, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from
this date, they will be declared void.
F. B. SUTTOE.
Lachlan Mining Distbict.
No. 91; William Mangan and another; portion No.
793; county of Ashburnham, parish of Forhes ; 6 acres.
Application No., Forbes 124.
Southern Mining Distbict.
No. 62; William Hansen; portion No. 52; county of
St. Vincent, parish of Dangera; 5 acres. Application
No., Nowra 79-2.
Peel and Üballa Mining Districts.
No. 211; David Price; portion No. 19; county of
Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres. Application
No., Glen lunes 79-17.
No. 212; Wyberg Skerry; portion No. 20; county of
Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres. Application
No , Glen lunes 79-18.
No. 213; John Pickering; portion No. 17; county of
Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 4 acres. Application
No., Glen lunes 79-19.
No. 214; John Pickering; portion No. 18; coiinty of
Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres. Application
No., Glen Innes 79-20.
No. 215; William Sully and others; portion No. 21;
county of Gresham, parish of Mitchell; 2 acres. Ap-
plication No., Glen Innes 80-2.
T
HE Most PERFECT-FITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANNBLL’S
CELEBRATED WHI T E SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
Shibt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN’S MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
T
HE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM, SYDNEY
Wanted to purchase specimens of Australian Minerals
and Rough Gems.
EDWARD P. RAMSAY
Curator.
JfIASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
strongly recommend their now famous
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any sold in Sydney at a
much higher price
124. GEORGE STREET,
HATMAEKET.
J 0
H N MURPHY,
(Late J. Murphy & Son)
IMPORTEE OF
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
White and Eed Lead
Turpentine
Saw and Boiled Oils
Brush ware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, Ac.
Varnishes
Paperhangiugs
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Eesin, Tar
Cement, Ac., Ac.
MIXED PAINT, READY FOE USE, ANT SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City 0 1
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir Arthur Gordon has started for Fiji.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke has been installed
P.G.M. of the Freemasons, Irish Constitution.
“ Little ” Mirams has accepted the Chairman-
ship of the Victorian Tariff Revision Commission.
Mr. James Hobbs, son of Dr. Hobbs, Brisbane,
has been appointed Inspector of Telegraphs in the Far
North.
“ The Vagabond” is coming back, wo hear, to
Australia at Christmas. He is now enl route for San
Francisco.
Mr. Edward Bennett, barrister, has been
appointed acting District Court Judge during Judge
Forbes’ absence on sick leave.
So far, the amount realised by the Victorian
committee for the widow and frmily of the late Mr.
Marcus Clarke does not exceed £5OO.
The infant son and heir of the Duke and Duchess
•of Norfolk, who bears the title of Earl of Arundel and
Surrey, is not only blind but an idiot.
Charters, the absconding secretary of the
Christchurch Building Society, has been arrested at
Bristol, with £l7OO in his possession.
Mr. Biggar, Parnell’s lieutenant in the House
■of Commons, is the son of a Presbyterian Elder, but is
a convert to the Roman Catholic faith.
Dick Eades, one of the Tate (N.Q.) tin pro-
spectors, and who sold out and came south, has the
prospecting reef on Mount Browne, showing splendid
gold.
The will of the late Mr. Justice Stephen, of
Victoria, has been proved under £10,600. Testator left
all his property absolutely to his wife, Katherine R.
Stephen.
Mr. Norman Selfe, C.E., of this city, has taken
out a patent for improvement in air-compressing
machinery, applicable to chilling, and also to motive
purposes.
The Right Hon. Mr. Chamberlain, M.P. ; is
designated by Vanity Fair, “ a chattering Radical,
who has only heroism sufficient to bawl across a vestry
at a rival shopman.”
Judge Molesworth, of Victoria, has greatly im-
proved in health, and was, last week, able to leave his
house, for the first time in three months. He is about
to apply for six months’ leave.
It is said that Mr. W. B. Bradley (of Cobb and
Co.) has sold out to his partners. The amount is
variously stated, but about £35,000 is mentioned by
those who ought to know as the figure.
Mr. John Graham, of Nymborda, Clarence
River—who died last week, after a lingering illness,
aged 83—had resided at Nymborda for 30 years, and
had been in the colony since he was 17 years of age.
The Revd. Mr. Milne, of Paddington, who is
aged 80, has had his arm broken by a cart knocking him
down and going over him, as he stepped from a tramcar.
Mr. Milne is Presbyterian chaplain of Darlinghurst.
Fred. Darvall, chief clerk in the Queensland
Treasury, has been appointed Curator of Intestates vice
Alex. Rail, resigned. Fred, is eldest son of Mr. F. O.
Darvall, formerly Auditor-General of Queensland, is
an old civil servant, and a good fellow.
Dr. A. A. West, of Glebe Road, has tendered
his resignation to the directors of the Sydney Infirmary.
Dr. West has, for three years past, rendered gratuitous
services to the institution. He has now accepted, as
has also Dr. Mackellar, a seat at the Board of Health.
When the Crown Prince and Princess of Ger-
many travel, they love to do so simply and without
fuss. During their recent trip to England they visited
Norris Castle, leaving nearly all their luggage at Ports-
mouth. So as not to be hampered, they only took eight
tons on with them.
That highly-favoured lady, Mrs. Bardwell, was
seven times granted leave of absence during 1880 and
1881, making altogether four months leave during a
period of 20 months. Those 20 months included, also,
the ordinary school holidays, which amount to about
two months in the year.
A well-known M.L.A., who was displaying con-
siderable agility in clambering to the top of a 'bus in
King-street, last week, missed his footing and fell a
regular cropper into the gutter. He didn’t look so
sweet and amiable as he usually does, when the three
pretty girls who were inside laughed at his mis-
fortune.
We were in error in stating that Mr. James
Henty, eldest son of the late Thomas Henty, is the only
survivor of that family. Mr. Henty’s youngest son,
Francis, is at present resident in Svdney, and was the
very first settler at Port Phillip. He held the pole for
Bateman when the latter pitched his tent whore Mel-
bourne now stands, in 1836.
The Daily News expects that its special cor-
respondent, Mr. O’Donovan the brilliant young
American-Irishman, whose unrivalled productions,
« Campaigning on the Oxus” and 11 Under the Northern
Lights,” have attracted so much attention—will be
liberated shortly. Mr. O’Donovan is still kept a pri-
soner by the drunken marauders of the Merv country.
Mr. W. J. Clarke, Commodore of the Victoria
Yacht Club, was entertained at a farewell dinner last
Thursday night at the Port Phillip Club Hotel, Mel-
bourne. In responding to the toast of his health, Mr.
Clarke trusted that he would be able to return to the
colony in twelve months, and promised that his yacht,
Janet, should take part in the next intercolonial
regatta.
Captain Mayne Reid has written a new novel,
•« The Free Lancers; a Romance of the Mexico Valley.”
It is the book of his declining years. In the words of
the Australasian. “ whatever stories of the Mexican
Valley Captain Mayne Reid may hereafter write, we
shall scrupulously refrain from reading them, and shall
seek to preserve undisturbed our recollections of the nar-
ratives of his best days, which thrilled us once, a long
time ago.”
An of noble birth, to the German
embassy, at London, was arrested for a crime, and re-
leased on his privilege. He has, however, been stripped
of his decorations, and shut up in a lunatic asylum. In
Germany, a noble who commits a crime is regarded as a
lunatic. Running off with another man’s wife and then
abandoning her, as Bismarck’s son did, is not regarded
as a crime. Even Royal personages would get into
mad-houses else.
While the Princes were in Brisbane, there was a
garden party at Government House. Now, Sir Arthur
Kennedy employs, as is well known, Chinese servants,
and it is a regularly understood thing that an uncoiled
tail is a mark of respect. One of the Chinkies, with
his tail thus pendant, proved an irresistible temptation
to George of Wales, who—first asking his brother,
‘‘Ned, is Miss Kennedy looking?’’—gripped the Mon-
golian’s haulyard, and indulged In the luxury of a
comfortable swing.
The other day Arthur Leslie Boucioault, who
now runs the Gympib Miner, copied, without acknow-
ledgment. from the Wide Bay News, a paragraph
about “ Dynamite Patriotism,” which has offended
some of his Milesian readers. A. L. now says that
though he printed the par. it by no means follows that
"his sympathies go with it. It is, he remarks, hardly
necessary for him, as the brother of an Irishman (Dion
Boucioault) who has already contributed nearly £lO,OOO
to the national cause, to state that he does not endorse
the statement made by the News.
Mr. Corbin Lamb’s occupation—like that of
Othello —is gone. No sooner had he packed his shoe-
trunk —we mean, of course, his “ Saratoga”—to start
up country and “ bring a little rain” than a deluge im-
mediately eventuates. Corbin (whom we were delighted
to see) called at our office, and gave us his blessing prior
to his departure. We suppose, however, he will come
down again now, since his mission is accomplished, and
if so, he can befriend the squatters in another way. Let
him purchase agu but no 1 If John were lost to the
world, how would we bring out the paper ? Material
must be found for copy.
So Mr. Jolly, J.P., is gathered to his uncles.
We are very sorry to hear this, as the deceased gentle-
man was a remarkable magistrate. He was honest. We
could better have spared a “ worser ” man —some of
those gentlemen, for instance, who make licensing a
“business,” and who hob-nob with litigants and their
lawyers in public-house parlours before the court opens.
Mr. Kettle is gone, n l=o. He, likewise, like Hamlet,
was “indifferent honest.” The inferior justices will
probably live for c er. The Devil takes care of his —
but, as we have before remarked, our Dartmoor fore-
man of the jury is vec on the ocean wave.
A presentation is to be made to Mr. W. K.
Okeden, P.M., on his removal from Charleyille to
Gayndah, Queensland. Mr. Okeden is one of the most
accomplished men, and one of the best fellows in
Queensland, He can sit a buokjumper, break a colt,
bowl an over “ dead on ” and with no end of pace,
knock together a rattling score in slashing style, throw
a boomerang as well as any blaokfellow, sing a good
ajtog, playing his own accompaniment on the piano,
tnrow off a set of verses, sketch a prospect, take a turn
with the gloves, administer real justice from the Bench,
and play a game of billiards—all with equal excellence.
"Thadeus O’Kane, the Jtiniua of Charters
Towers, has written us a letter, which is really a
delightful composition. He says:—“ lam free of libels
at present, and feel curiously affected—the novelty is
likely to induce fever. It is a remarkable astronomical
or other fact, that last December produced a crop of
libels that lasted me until the present day. I wonder
whether the periodic showers of meteors had anything
to do with the epidemic ? Be sure there is something in
it.” We hope to have Thady’s portrait in shortly. We
have had some in memoriam stanzas in type for him
almost ever since The Bulletin was started, but to
our surprise he hasn’t been killed yet. As he says—
things must be quiet on the Towers just now.
G. It. Sims, the new shining light in the literary
world, does all his work at night. Mr. Dampier relates
that he was at his house, one evening, when Mr. Sima
said, “Excuse me for a little while, old man;” and,
leaving the room, returned in a little over an hour with
one of his inimitable “Dagonet" ballads complete.
Mr. Sims is one of the most prolific writers of the day.
Poems, stories, sketches, leaders, seem to flow from his
pen like magic. He had, a short while since, a magazine
called One and All, to which he contributed a serial.
But he relinquished the publication, because he found
that unscrupulous “ adapters ” dramatised his tales be-
fore they were halt finished. The principal o ‘ Mr. Sims’
newspaper contributions appear in the Referee and
the Weekly Dispatch.
At a Northern banquet:—“The Doyles. Step
aboard a Newcastle steamer going northward —the man
going down the companion way is a Doyle. Get
wrecked at Nobbys—and it’s a Doyle that you find on
the ledge of the first rock. Turn up at a funeral—it’s a
Doyle that all the sport’s about. Go to a christening—
some young Doyles are bleating. At a show, the Doyles
pulls off all the prizes—and the Doyles are not bad
judges The Doyles are the tallest and the shortest.
They run banks, newspapers, stations, and churches —
though at the latter their hand is perhaps new. The
Doyles are everywhere. They come of a grand stock.
They improve every place they settle on. There’s
something else they do; and they all do it. They
make the best wine, and marry the best women. ‘ln
bumpers, then, gentlemen—the Doyles—the Doyles.' ”
5 f Just fourteen years ago the celebrated Thames
goldfield was thrown open. One of the miners was a
man named Clarkson, who was so poor that he slept in
the fern, and lived on dry bread. At last he got so low
and disheartened, that he packed up his swag and
walked towards the steamer. There he was met by two
friends, who gave him a lift and asked him to stay. The
three —Clarkson, Hunt, and White —went down a rivu-
let between the Karanui and Karaki creeks, White
ahead, Clarkson and Hunt behind. Clarkson casually
struck the hard water-worn rock, which formed a
waterfall, when a glittering splinter of quartz flew off.
On picking it up it was found to be studded with gold.
A few more blows with the pick disclosed to the
prospectors that the patch was of considerable dimen-
sions. White was called, and when the greatness of
the discovery burst upon them, he laid down and kicked
and laughed like a madman. Cobley joined the party
three days after the discovery, being a friend of Hunt’s.
Clarkson, WTiite, and Cobley made about £30,000 a man,
and Hunt somewhat more, he having speculated luckily.
Mr. J. R. Skuthorpe, the immortal explorer, of
Leichhardt relic fame, is now at St. George. He
originally started from Gulnaabae station (the property
of Mr. George Kirk, of Melbourne, and managed by his
son, Mr. George M. Kirk), with over one hundred head
of horses for sale. Mr. Kirk, jun., however, gave him
instructions to fill in any spare time he might have by
searching for traces of Leichhardt; and authorised him
to sell as many horses as might be necessary to provide
funds for the prosecution of the search. The alleged
discovery of relics since took place, but during the last
few months silence has reigned supreme. The other
day Skuthorpe arrived at Kinkso station, half-a-dozen
miles from St. George, and stated that he had left the
relics at Mexico Station, the property of his brother,
who, it will be remembered, some time ago publicly
made statements which showed that he was not en-
dined to swallow all that had been said by J. E. Mr.
Kirk is, or appears to be, a firm believer in Skuthorpe.
At the bar dinner given to Mr. Justice Holroyd,
of Victoria, to celebrate his elevation to the bench, Sir
William Stawell, the Chief Justice, eloquently eulo-
gised Sir Bryan O’Loghlen, the Premier, and gave it as
his opinion that an Attorney-General was fairly en-
titled to a vacant judgeship, if only on account of the
sacrifices of private practice he made in taking office.
Sir Bryan has long hankered after a judgeship. He
gave up a Crown Prosecutorship at £6OO for a Land Tax
Commissionership at £lOOO per annum, and then relin-
quished the substance (that’s to say the commissioner-
ship) for the shadow, the Attorney-Generalship of the
Berry Ministry. He has tried hard for a Supreme
Court judgeship from the very first iiay he entered
Victorian politics. He was deprived of the Barry
vacancy through the action of Mr. Berry in appointing
Mr. Higinbotham, as much to spite the baronet as for
anything else; and now the fates are once more against
him, for he could not well resign the Premiership and
jump the seat vacated by the death of Judge Stephen.
That would have looked rather greedy, even for the
“ self-sacrificing" baronet, who never stood high at the
bar. Sir William Stawell was consciously or uncon-
sciously satirical when he alluded to “ sacrifices.”
Mr. Charles Bright, the well-known Freethought
lecturer, who has been for some time past trusting to
the air of the Blue Mountains to restore him to good
health, having found that the necessity for hard work
which still pursued him prevented his receiving the
benefit that he might otherwise have gained, has de-
termined to try what the perfect rest and saline in-
fluence of a sea voyage will effect. Mr. Bright lectures
on Sunday next for the last time in Sydney before
taking his departure, by sailing vessel, for California,
aud hopes to start in about a month. Mr. Bright has,
of course, as many enemies as Australasia contains
bigots; but ho has also hosts of friends and admirers.
In every capacity in which Mr. Bright has engaged, his
straightforwardness and his remarkable abilities and
intelligence have secured success for him. He is well
known to old press-men as a journalist of first-rate
quality. As manager of an insurance company, he was
equally a high-class man; and when, impelled by an
irresistible prompting to give expression to his own
theological views, he abandoned a well-paid office for
the lecturing platform, he took a high standing at once,
in the face of as bitter and malignant criticism aud
villiflcation as ever fell to the lot of a reformer. Out of
this ordeal Mr. Bright has emerged unharmed and un-
dismayed. His health, indeed, is impaired, but his
character shines all the brighter for the lire to which
it has been subjected. We are justified in saying that
if all professing Christians who denounce Mr. Bright as a
sort of Australian Antichrist did but attain the level
he occupies as a man of upright dealings and reputable
life, there would be no longer need for any theology at
all. Mr. Bright takes with him the good wishes and
respect of everybody who really knows him.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. T. M. Slattery, in a letter published in the
Macleat Herald, states that there are now twenty-two
members of the Assembly favourable to the abolition
of interest on selections.
Mr. Labouohere’s organ, Truth, suggests that,
to get over the oaths difficulty, Mr. Brodlaugh should
he created a life peer. There is no way of challenging
the right of a Peer to take the oath of allegiance.
Mr. Berry addressed a meeting of Liberals at
Ballarat, and advocated energetic action to secure
abolition of plural voting, which enabled propertied
persona to multiply their influence and outvote the
masses. Messrs. Vale and Langridge were present.
The Victorian Eeform League Conference, now-
sitting at Ballarat, has adopted an intelligent pro-
gramme, in unison with the principles of the best
modern thinkers on Political Economy. Plural voting,
aggregation of large estates, and grants in fee simple of
country lands, are condemned.
The past week has been prolific, comparatively
speaking, of practical legislative work. The Govern-
ment succeeded in passing two bills through all their
stages: the one being the Crown Lands Purchases
Validating Bill —a measure which has to be passed
almost every year, to cover errors committed under the
system of selection before survey; and the other, a
much-needed one, to provide for the detention of un-
seaworthy ships. It is rather a singular circumstance
that the only members who showed any opposition to
the latter measure were Messrs. Stuart and Lloyd—both
of whom, as is well known, are connected with the
shipping interest.
The Licensing Bill, which has been kept back
so long, is now fairly under discussion, but it will be
safe for anybody to bet five to one that, if Parliament
were to sit for a twelvemonth hence, the bill would
not be passed through committee, even though there
were no serious objections to its provisions. The ten-
dency of this Parliament is to talk, and not to legislate.
Sir Henry finds great comfort in the fact that the bill
is not approved of by either of the extreme parties ; he
argues with some reason that that which is distasteful
to the extremes must be satisfactory to the moderate.
He announced, the other night, that he would not
allow any other business to interrupt the progress of
the bill. Some people are anxious to know how he
proposes to deal with the Chinese question.
Mr. M'Elhone made one speech only last week
—a circumstance that cannot be recorded of any pre-
vious week in his short but distinguished Parliamentary
career. The one speech was characterised by its mild-
ness. The honorable member —what a multitude of
virtues and vices these words of courtesy have to
cloak! —made an abject apology for the extraordinary
language which he used with respect to the squatters.
His apology, in effect, was that he had a hasty temper,
and sometimes spoke without knowing what he was
saying. With regard to the language in question, he
said he was not aware till he saw the S.M. Herald of
next morning that he used it. Now, we defy Mr.
M‘Elhone to quote from the Herald report the
words to which exception has been taken. _ What
occupies 25 lines in the Hansard report, is cut
down by the Herald to two lines. One dis-
gusting feature about the apologetic affair was, that
when the humiliated (?) member resumed his seat, he
was applauded by men who expi essed extreme indigna-
tion at his utterances a few days previously.
Mr. F. A. Winks, one of a deputation at pre-
sent in Ireland representing the Democratic Federa-
tion of London, spoke at a land demonstration at New
Ross, on July 3rd, and expressed the ideas of British
Radicals as follows :—“ I have got a frightful heartache
because of the scenes I have witnessed in this country,
of misery and beggary maintained and sustained by the
arm and power and might of England that make me
ashamed of the name of Englishman. I have heard a
great number of speakers on the bill in the House ot
Commons, and they talk of compensation to the land-
lords. By all means, let them have all the compensa-
tion they are entitled to, but, before presenting their
bill, you, and I representing Englishmen, have a bill to
present to them (hear). You want compensation for
the overcharge of the millions of money robbed from
you by rackrents (hear). You will ask them to account
for the lives of the hundreds and thousands sacrifled
in the two famine fevers. The English Government in
this country sends its armies at the expense of the
taxpayers, not to maintain law and order, but to get
in the rackrents, and for which we have to pay the
taxation (hear).
THE NEWSLETTER.
Gross receipts at Parramatta hospital bazaar,
£9OO.
775 people at Australian Museum Sunday after-
Wet day.
The first escort from Mount Browne brought to
Sydney 1225 oz. gold.
Fiahburn and Morton are proceeding rapidly
with the Mudgee railway.
Dr. Jackson, for the manslaughter of Miss
Hilder, is to be tried at Maryborough, not at Mel-
bourne.
There are now 2500 kanakas at Maokay—a
number almost equal to that of the white population of
the district.
Envelopes are now stamped for the public at the
Q.P.0., at the cost of the stamps, no charge being made
for the cost of the work.
It seems not unlikely that the Victorian Govern-
ment will dispute the right of sutterers by the recent
Jolimont railway accident to receive compensation.
With but a third of the population of Temora,
the Palmer sent to Cooktown the week before last 4500
oz. gold. Temora for a month, produced only 1700 oz.
Edward Hughes, the pious local preacher who
before he bolted from Melbourne with £2OOO belonging
to his employers, held forth on “ honesty,” and who
was arrested in N.S.W., has been remanded.
A few nights since, at Timaru, N.Z., a young
man proceeded to inflict bodily chastisement on the re-
puted correspondent of the Christchurch Liberty.
The fight was fast and furious; the Liberty man got
the best of it. He had been taking boxing lessons.
More trouble at the Christchurch Liberty
office. The other day, three fellows, who wanted
“ satisfaction,” went to the office and asked for the
editor. Finding that he was not in, they proceeded to
upset the type, and did a great deal of mischief. They
were brought up at the police court, and fined in all
£ll with damages.
Sevenpence per lb. for the frozen mutton taken
home by the Protos. This means a margin of 3fcd. per
lb. in favour of the producer. Thus a 601 b. sheep,
which sells now in Sydney for 12s. 6d., fetches in Eng-
land, after paying all expenses, 17s 6d., and then there
remain the skin and fat, worth some 45., which brings
up the price in round numbers to a guinea. Shares in
the meat companies should go up.
Henry Moylan, a well-informed Grafton abori-
ginal, is missing, and is believed to have been thrown
by his horse in the mulga scrub in the western soli-
tudes of Wanaaring, Paroo Eiver. The horse, which
was a wild brute, was found dead, with saddle, sur-
cingle and breastplate complete. It had evidently in-
jured itself in its struggles, and crawled to where it was
found, leaving its rider, maimed or killed outright,
somewhere in the mulga. Moylan’s pocket-book was
found in his swag.
A N.Z. paper points out that a certain
steamer arrived at Lyttelton on a Thursday after-
noon, and that from 3,30 p m. until 3.30 a.m. next day
unloading was proceeded with. Is it possible, asks our
contemporary, that the officers, the third especially,
can, after working all night, be in a condition to take
charge of a large steamer in the darkest hours of the
morning ? As a matter of fact, when the boat reached
Wellington, the third mate fell down the hold and sus-
tained serious injury. Were the truth known, he
might possibly attribute his accident to overwork. The
hurry-scurry system of discharging boats may lead to
more Tararua disasters, and demands attention at the
hands of the Government.
The Northern Miner says that a Diaman-
tina squatter “has just returned by steamer from
Batavia with two coach-loads of Malays, intended for
breeding purposes on his western station." There will
no doubt be a regular slave community on the Hiamau-
tiua before many years. By the way, the Labour Act
is violated most shamefully in the Far North. At
Townsville these half-slaves are now as common as
aboriginals. The “ white trash ” look and swear, and
that’s all they do. “In a year or two,” says Thadeus
O’Kane, “we shall, unless wiped out under the ad-
vancing hoofs of Chinese, Malay, and Cingalese scum,
publish a polyglot Northern Miner— there will be a
Chinkie column, Malay and Cingalese column, a
Diamantina column for the pigeon-English of the
future settlement, a ‘slave’ column for advertise-
ments for runaways, Spanish bloodhounds, and
Legrees.”
Another attempt is to be made in Hobart to
establish a daily paper in opposition to The Mercury.
We have a prospectus of the Tasmanian Times, to be
published by a limited liability company. So far the
prospect seems discouraging, for so dull a place is Tas-
mania that it is hard to see how, without unlimited
lie-ability, anyone can hope successfully to oppose the
Morning Monopolist. Anyhow, the capital is to be
£lO,OOO, in £2 shares, and the price of the paper, which
we hear “is to be the largest broadsheet published in
Tasmania,” twopence. This we consider a mistake.
People don’t find fault with the Mercury in point of
quantity; quite the reverse. Unless the Times people
can make the style of their journal sharp and lively,
and print every day something good enough to wake the
dead, they’ll have no show. The Times directory cou-
sistsof Mr. E. N. C. Braddon (brother of Miss Braddon,
the novelist); Colonel Bernard ; Captain Stanley, E.N.;
Mr. J. A. Smith, (Launceston); Mr. A. Coote; Colonel
Garnet.
Brother Montagu S. Mao hen, who has hitherto
been a strenuous supporter and advocate of the Grand
Lodge of New South Wales, has relinquished all his
Masonic offices thereunder —as also the secretaryship
of the fund for the support and maintenance of Free-
masons’ widows and orphans.
They are making some fun out of the recent
fiasco at Netting Hill, when the Prince of Wales and
the Bishop of London were put down simultaneously
on the programme for a speech and a prayer, and the
Bishop had to ride second horse. I remember, writes
a correspondent, a much more laughable occurrence in
India, when, by some mistake, a worthy divine was
put down for a comic song. But he disappointed the
jokers, for he sang one —and sang it well, too.
“ He traced her little footprints in the mud.”
A Caution to Love-sick Young Men.
Ernest Montgomery Smith studies his billet-doux in the tramcar. So do the other people.


ONCE MO]
Thebe is a pretty local superstition that if you drink the t
leaving, you are sure to return to the Eterns City, drawn thitt
thus invoked. The
PALACE EMPOR
being an institution founded in more recent times (although,
commercial career of some 60 years), has no such tradition nan
“ le 8 P it would seem, exists nevertheless. F<
ynthm its portals are seldom content with a single visit. A\
ble impulse. It is said you must go by moonlight to tl
of St, Peter’s ere th enchantress will pu forth her mapfc wane
PALACE EMPO:
oome when 'you will —by moonlight or sunshine, cloud or fas' —
see it in perfection, you should go by gas-light. The eight then
cases extending down the centre of the train building for a dish
cases varying from day to cay, as each fresh shipment reaches us
both are a source of wonder to all who see them. At the prese
been evinced in the dressing of the cases, in view of the various
any afternoon, after half-past four, the
PALACE EMPOI
may be seen in all its tdory— a sight wondrous to behold
ONE CASE is devoted to SILKS and SATINS of everj
BLACK AND COLOURED GKOS GRAIN SILKS
BLACK, WHITE, AND COLOURED SATINS
OMBRE RATE SILKS AND SATINS
STRIPED GLACE SILKS
SATIN DE LYON, Black and Coloured
RADZ DE MOET
FANCY OMBRE
MERVEILLEUX SILKS, Plain and Striped.
ANOTHEE CASE is fitted with EVENING FLOWERS,
SEVERAL CASES are devoted entirely to an ever-varying dif
SHADED RIBBONS
SET COLLARETTES, from lid
LADIES’ TARTAN NECKERCHIEFS, all prices
WINTER GLOVES OP ALL KINDS
WIDE PLUSH RIBBONS, from 5d per yard
SCARF LACES, SHADED LACES, &c. &c.
The USEFUL, as well as the ORNAMENTAL, is equally wel
DRESS MATERIALS, ad infinitum !
MANCHESTER MANUFACTURES, such
BLANKETS of a 1! sizes and prices, of wl
BLANKET, unequalled in this city at 27s
In a word, the wants of all may be supplied at prices that c!
colony. In conclusion, we would respectfully point out that th<
PALACE EMPO
AT THE
HAYM A R K
ia our ONLY ESTABLISHMENT, and we trust none will
ANTHONY HORDERN
A GENUINE OFFER BY A RELIi
WALTHAM WATCHES AT WH(
OFFERED THROUGH THE MEDIUM OF THE CC
by the
LONDON WATCH AND DIAMOND (
T\URING the l>ast vear we haveaenthnnrlwxHarvf flio Vtnaf. arrorloi
SINGER’S SEWING ]
THE
SINGER MANUFACTUR]
Have opened a Dep
SYDNEY, AT No. 1 DAI
HARBOUR STB]
INGER’S SEWING
Illustrated Price List sen
s
INGER’S SEWING
BEST TERMS TO WHOLE
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for address of nei
SINGER’S, THE BEST I
Have received 160 First P
SINGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for <
8
INGER’S, BEST FOR
SINGER'S MEDIUM MACE
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. v
INGER’S THE BEST ;
See the New No. 4 M
8
SINGER’S SEWING
Easy Terms. No addition
SINGER’S, THE BEST FOB
See the New No. 4 Vibrating
SINGER’S SEWING
HAND OB TREAI
SINGER’S. The BEST. Th<
MACHINE —Light to Work,
NGER’S SEWING
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6<
(gI_NGER’S SEWING
SINGER’S, THE BEST
LEARN. New Improvement
SINGER’S SEWING
Instruction Free to nil
SINGER’S THE BEST A
Sew finest muslins and h<
SINGER’S SEWING
Write for Illustrated Price
8”
INGER’S THE BEST and!
Will last a lifetime in oc
SINGER’S SEWING
ADDRESS: Tl
8
INGER MANUPACTURI
' No. 1 DARLING STORES, Ha;
S IN GER’S SEWING
J. W. JOHNSTON
746 George-street, Hayraai
have been appointed agents fo
machines.
Call and see them—Month'
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly-
-10 per cent discount for cai
SINGER’S SEWING M
8
INGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARE THE
RECOGNISED I
or THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANI
TIME PAYMEN
2s. 6d. per week —2s. 6d. per weel
And NO INTEREST d
10 per cent, oil for i
BEWARE OP IM IT
Aornts for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER &
THE ONLY “ SING
TURNER &
Opposite
mHEA U S T
Mr. Copeland’s motion in favour of opening the
Art Gallery to the public on Sundays was only nega-
tived by 26 votes to 23. Sabbatarian majority is gradu-
ally dribbling away.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass.—Adv.
“ SYDNEY IN 1881.”
THIS is one of grandest Pine Art novelties that
has ever been before the public. It is
A LARGE VIEW OF SYDNEY,
40 inches in length and 30 inches in breadth given away
with the NEW ALBUM of New South Wales.
It contains 12 splendid Lithographic Yiews of the
city and harbour, neatly bound in cloth.
The lot, post free, fifteen 2d. stamps.
E. GRAVUEE. BOOKSELLER,
196 George-st, Sydney.
The enterprising grocer,
MR. E. S. WILSON,
of Raglan and Elizabeth Streets, Waterloo,
has, at considerable outlay, erected an excellent Coffee
Mill, on his premises, which caused no little stir when
it was first set in motion. The quality of the coffee is
excellent, and the Mill has proved a valuable acquisi-
tion to the spirited proprietor, as well as a convenience
to the retail houses and general consumers of that
wholesome beverage.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Whitelaw, of Wellington (N.Z.) Lunatic Asylum
notoriety, cleared for Sydney upon his release from
Saol. He says a Government appointment awaits him
er ® “ Scotch Mary," an old woman who has been
for many years a familiar figure in Maitland, is dead, at
the age of 90. She was often besought to go to the
Benevolent Asylum but refused to receive charity while
she could sell fruit A party at Hargraves, near
Mudgee, have found a lead from which they have taken
61b. gold. They have taken a lease, and mean to erect
machinery At Junee, a party of Mongolians were
clearing ground for a squatter, and were paid by a
cheque for *3OO odd. One of them offered to go and get
it cashed, but he has not been heard of since A N.Z.
telegraphist claims compensation from the Government
for being unable to obtain employment in Australia
through having his name forwarded as having taken
part in the strike last year The Hobart medicos
have had a long discussion as to whether vaccine
lymph is deteriorated by age Two prisoners in Yass
Gaol have been caught in an attempt te break out by
scraping away bricks A post-office clerk at
Napier, N.Z., has been doing a large business on his
own account with other people’s letters. His wife in-
formed M’Donald’s claim, Milburn Creek, has been
purchased by Melbourne capitalists, A Gonlbnm
youth beat his horse to death. Sentence, one month.
Two of the fingers and part of the thumb of a N.Z.
man were cut off through becoming entangled in the
rope by which a restive horse was tied up. The W.A.
Government support Jonbert and Twopeny in their
project of an Exhibition at Perth A W.A. firm has
gnrehased the Ferret (s.) to replace the wrecked Euro
mith, who had his throat cut by ruffians at Willochra
Ck., S. A., is recovering, and can nearly speak During
a gale at Port Macquarie, a quantity of stock was killed
by falling branches Stephens, the Collingwood
undertaker, who was summoned for having unburied
bodies of children on his premises, pleaded that when
he received them he was so busy with a picnic that he
forgot all about them At Moree, a lunatic seized a
tomahawk in a store, struck himself in the head, and
watted off into the bush with a strap round his neck,
saying he was going to finish himself. He was found
dead outside the township next morning So much
stock is being loaded at Wellington for Homebush that
the Railway Department is compelled to run three o r
four special goods trains every Sunday, as well as those
that work during the week. The country is looking
splendid John Mahoney, one of the oldest coach-
drivers in Riverina, has died at Melbourne At
Cooma, Mr. Andrew Sturgon’s son, aged 12, threw a
canister of gunpowder into the fire. Dr. Donevan hopes
to save the poor lad’s other eye Government of W.
Australia require tenders for the second section of their
Eastern railway. Open till December 2nd A
Queanbeyan tomtit has built its nest in the brainpan of
a bullock’s skull, the aperture at the base of the skull
where the vertebrae joined to it being made by the
feathered architect its means of ingress and egress.
Three little nestlings occupy the snug abode Heavy
floods in S. A. have washed away a quarter of a mile of
railway north of Port Augusta Wright, who sui-
cided at Adelaide, had letters in his pockets asserting
that he knew quite well what he was about. It is
worthy of remark, that he was an advanced Freethinker.
Suicides are generally not freethinkers Mel-
bourne capitalists have bought M'Donald’s claim,
Temora, for about £20,000 Picked stone from Lady
Matilda Reef, Nana Creek, yielded as high as 154 oz. to
the ton Jim Kellyand Wild Wright have been com-
mitted for horse-stealing. Evidence was given that
Kelly fired four shots from a revolver and challenged a
policeman to “come on,” but rode off when ap-
proached Hon. W. J. Clarke has given £250 to the
Victorian Humane Society, to institute a Clarke Medal
for the most deserving person each year The legality
of appointments signed by the Governor of Victoria
while out of the colony is questioned Dr. Moffitt has
read a paper before the N.S.W. Medical Society on
" Small-pox.” and pins his faith to quinine.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ John Bull”: Eight you are. The seat of the
brain is in the stomach, and many a man has been
snatched from the arms of Beelzebub and placed in the
bosom of Abraham by a blue pill and black draught.
Ask Mr. Sloper, of Oxford-street "Jim M.’’; Write
again “A.H.”; We don’t understand you
“ Toxopholite”: Thanks “C.D.P.": Unsuitable
“Q.E.C.": We have used some. Others are, we fancy,
old friends “ Bob”: We don’t understand "Silly
Billy”: The verses were not eqnal in merit to the pars.
“ 8.R.": Very welcome “Nemo" (Melbourne):
Very glad to hear from you on any subject “L.C.":
You should get some ideas before you start writing
" poetry." Most poets commence at the wrong end
“ Patsy": Kindly call on the Editor. “ Satire”: We
have already given expression to similar views “ W.
Cooke”: The pun carries a doable meaning, which might
be read in a way very distressing to the lady’s feelings.
“Cubby” (Walgett): Much obliged for your absorb-
ing items. You are evidently gifted with a facile pen
“ Thurston”: Rather too rough on the Holy Ghost for
our paper. Try the Mail "Bathurst”: What are you
giving us ? We don’t understand what your pars, are
about, and wouldn’t insert them if we did. If you keep us
in the dark, we’ll keep you in the waste-paper basket
“Museum”: Much obliged, but we have quite sufficient to
do to confine ourselves to writing notices of theatrical
performances, without troubling with the internal
scenery of the theatres, and the quarrels and petty jea-
lousies of the actors and actresses ....“W.H B ": You ask
—“ Where is Leichhardt’s relics ?” Ask Skuthorpe. He
might know where they is “J. B d’ : A whole
sheet of foolscap about a boy catching a crab in a boat.
Oh, bang it! “G.F.D.W”: Will keep. Have
“patience” “Curieux”: Heaven and the other
place have the monopoly of the information. We don’t
know. Perhaps this month. P.S.—Came off no
Wednesday “6.C.: It’s the other report we
want .“ Murrurundi ” : Next week “E.M.”:
Will write you " M.Q.” (Petersham) : Else-
where. “ Gastronimical vacuity ” is good. Glad
to hear from you again “ M—n,” —: Send
what you speak of to the editer “J. Moody”
(G.P.O.j: We don’t, as a rule, return MS. You can
write well enough, but what you send is not of general
interest. We hardly understand any of it. Write short
pars, about Sydney, and we will be glad to have them.
“lnvisible”: Next week " South Brisbane ”:
Will keep for a week “ W. W.”: Received “T. T
C.” : A good story. Will print in our next “F. F.
W.": We don’t print petty personal gossip. We shall
always be glad to hear from you on matters of general
interest “Yahoo”: Will read and consider for next
week “ Perambulator ”.- Just a little too late for
current issue “J.E.”: Held over “Constant
Subscriber": Received “J.G.”: Received; much
obliged—next week “8.M.D.”: Crowded out.
“The Bulletin” Defence Fund.
The following amounts have been received since pub-
lication by the Treasurers of their last list. Collected
by W. C. Humphries, Esq. :—A. H. M’Culloch, M.P.,
£5; W. C. Humphries, £1 Is ; G. C. Waldron, £1 Is; A.
Rolfe, ss; B. D. Sweetland, 5s ; J. J. Mooney, ss; H.
Eyles, ss; C. A. Adpiece, ss: total, £8 7s. Collected by
E. W. Foxall: E. W. Foxall, 10s; W. Lamb, 5s ;J. W.
Dewsbury, ss; Under Mild Protest, Is; Edward
Arnold, £1 Is; W. S. F., os: total, £2 7s. A Friend,
Pyrmont, 10s; Daniel O’Connor, M.P., £1 Is ; S. Wal-
ker, Chatsworth Island, 10s; total. £2 Is. Collected
by William Thomas Dangar, Kempsey: William
Thomas Dangar and family, 8s 6d; William Neal, 2s
6d; John M’Maugh, 2s 6d ; James Crawford, 2s 6d ;
Andrew Lenehan, 5s : total, £1 Is. Forwarded to The
Bulletin office: James Carrie, £l. Grand total, £14165.


Il
ARGEST
ESTABLISHMENT
KIND IN AUSTEALIA.
OF
THE
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 Pitt-street, Sydney,
(Next School of Arts).
EETAIL PEICE LIST.
Pure Ceylon Tea - )
Pure Java Tea [■
Pure Indian Tea )
2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s
per lb.
CHINA GEOWN TEAS, la 2d, Is 4d, Is 6d, Is 9d,
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tight Boxes containing
121bs of any of the above Teas.
Special Quotations given to wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders Promptly and Carefully attended to.
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar, 4d per lb.
Very Nice Sugar, almost White, 3sd per lb.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER !
LATIN, FRENCH. AND WRITING
TAUGHT.
THROUGH CORRESPONDENCE,
by
DR. ROD WAY. M.A.. F.R.S.L.
PRINCIPAL OP UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
TERMS. STRICTLY IN ADVANCE,
TWO (2) GUINEAS PER QUARTER
FOR EACH SUBJECT.
I) E RODWAY also guarantees to prepare per
mail and pass every country candidate he sends
np for the Matriculation, Law, and Civil Service Ex-
animations.
Pees for either Matric., Law, or Civil Service, THBEE
GUINEAS per Quarter, payable strictly
IN ADVANCE.
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor
awarded at tlie conclusion of
each Term.
N.B. —DE. EODWAY’S system is easy and efficient,
and he guarantees proficiency and success te every
student he accepts.
ALT. LESSONS CONDUCTED THROUGH
THE POST.
ADDRESS
DR. RODWAY, M.A., F.R.S.L,
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE,
191 WILLIAM STREET,
SYDNEY.
QP E R
Sole Lessee
Manager
Musical Director
A HOUSE.
Mr. W. J. WILSON.
LIDDY.
Mr. F. EUGAEDE.
THE HOME OP COMIC OPEEA.
POUETH WEEK
of
KELLY AND LEON
COMIC OPEEA COMPANY.
A Combination of Artistes who have been together
for nearly twelve months, and have proved that com-
petent Management and Respectability
AEE ALWAYS SUEE OP SUCCESS.
Mr. Kelly, Mr. Lester, and Miss Wangenheim, are
names alone of sufficient guarantee that the Entertain,
ment offered is good. All the other. Members of the
Company, Orchestra, and Chorus, are Ladies and Gentle-
men of acknowledge ability.
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS.
SATURDAY, September 17th,
Anri until further notice, Herr Von Grand
Opera, founded npon the Eusso-Turkish War.
First Time in the Colony,
PATINITZA,
PATINITZA.
Increased Cast, Chorus and Orchestra.
SPLENDID SCENEEY BY Mr. WILSON.
Pull particulars, see daily papers.
M. J. ABEAHAMS, Agent.
ASONIC HALL.
A GEAND MUSICAL AND DEAMATIC
ENTEETAINMEN T,
in conjunction with
ST. MAEK’S HAND-BELL EINGEES.
in aid of the
COACHMAKEES’ BANNEE FUND,
under distinguished patronage,
ON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBEE 20, 1881.
Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8 o'clock. Admis-
sion-Front Seats, 3s : Back Seats, 2s; Gallery, Is.
H. FEABEE, Hon. Sec.
DR. SIMMS, the Unrivalled PHYSIOGNO-
MIST, and Well-known, Eloquent, and Popular
Speaker, is repeating the following Illustrated and
Amusing LECTUEES on Practical and Scientific
PHYSIOGNOMY, which will be his Farewell and
last Lectures in Sydney, at TEMPEEANCE HALL,
Pitt-street, as follows Physiognomy, and its Applica
tion, to-morrow (Friday) evening, September 16; Eyes
and Eyebrows, September 17; Nervous System, and
Mind, September 20; Pbisiognomy, and Natural His-
tory of the Earth, September 21; Love aud Marriage,
September 22. Admission Is. aud 2s. Delinea-
tions, and Charts of Health and Character, given
daily in the Ante-room of the Hall (except Sun-
days), from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Now is the time to learn
your Faults, and how to correct them; the Occupation
for which you are most naturally fitted; present Bodily
Ailments, and what to do to give health ; the kind of
companion most suitable for life, &c. &c. Don’t foil to
attend this intensely interesting course of Lectures, and
learn how to read the faces you meet.
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, SEPTEMB R 17,
AT 4 O'CLOCK.
WAVERLEY. WAVERLET.
THIRTEEN (13) GRAND VILLA SITES,
Each having 20 teet Frontage to BIREELL STREET,
at its junction with NEWMAN STREET, only a
short distance oil COWPEE STREET, close to
the Telegraph Office, and within a few minutes’
walk of the Tram.
TITLE, TORRENS’.
HARDIE AND GORMAN
HAVE received instructions to sell by Public
Auction,
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 17th SEPTEMBER,
at 4 o’clock,
A GOOD BLOCK of LAND, situate at the comer of
BIREELL and NEWMAN STREETS, now sub-
divided into building sites, and known as belong-
ing to the late J. W. SMART, Esq., J.P.
LITHOS. AT THE ROOMS.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 9th September, 1881,
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOE MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Mineral Leases within thirty days from this date, they
will bo declared void.
F. B. SUTTOR.
No. 964; W. H. Yates and another; portion No. 40;
county of Gough, parish of Kingsgate: 20 acres; appli-
cation No., Glen Innes 79-7 m.
No. 965; M. A. Say and others; portion No. 41;
county of Gough, parish of Kingsgate; 20 acres ; appli-
cation No., Bm.
No. 966; W. H. Yates and others; portion No. 42;
county of Gough, parish of Kingsgate ; 2q acres ; appli-
cation No., 11m.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 9th September, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessee
executes and takes delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Lease within thirty days from this date, it
will be declared void.
F, B. SUTTOR.
Tambaroora and Titron Mining DiaTßidr.
No. 199; John Mongan; portion No., 1294; county of
Roxburgh, parish of Waterbeaoh; 2 acres 3 roods 27
perches; application No., Sofala 626.
TIN TAG!
TIN TAG!
Cautioa to Storekeepers.
ANY ONE selling Tobacco with any Round Tin Tag
other than those bearing our brands
“CONQUEEBE” or “YANKEE DOODLE”
is infringing our rights, and will be proceeded against
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice, as a Sydney Manu-
facturer has been sending out one of his inferior brands
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
DIXSON AND SONS,
155 YORK STREET.
TOBACCO SMOKERS,
Note the Above.
T
HEA T R E
ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Q. L. Goodman.
LAST NIGHTS LAST NIGHTS
of
THE LATEST and BEST COMIC OPERA of the DAY,
OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE. OLIVETTE.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture at ten minutes to 8
o’clock precisely.
o clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle, and pit may be pur-
chased during the day at H. Soltan’s, tobacconist, 116
King-street.
M
ASO N I C
HALL.
TUESDAY, 20th SEPTEMBER.
GRAND DRAMATIC PERFORMANCE
in celebration of unfurling
THE COACHMAKERS’ BANNER,
the first in excellence in the colonies, and the third in
the world; when the
PRINCE OF WALES AMATEUR DRAMATIC CLUB
will appear in two comedies—
FOUND IN A FOUR-WHEELER
and
B B
A large gathering of the Trade and congenial Societies
generally.
Bands, procession, and other ceremonies.
H. FRASER, Hon. Sec.
'ICTORIA HOUSE CRICKET CLUB
(Farmer and Company.)
THE ANNUAL EXCURSION
will take place at
TENNYSON,
On SATURDAY. Ist OCTOBER, 1881.
The steamers Prince of Wales andAgenoria will start
from Circular Quay—l.3o, 2, and 2.45 sharp. Young
Australian Band engaged. Tickets, Is Sd each.
S. TOWNSEND, Hon. Sec.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,
AT 11 O’CLOCK A.M.
ON THE GEOUND. ON THE GEOUND.
WITHOUT EESEEYE.
RIVERSTONE. RIVERSTONE.
SECOND SUBDIVISION.
GEEAT UNEESEEVED LAND SALE.
TOWN LOTS, EAILWAY PEONTAGES,
and
SUBURBAN BLOCKS AND LOTS.
591 LOTS TO PICE FROM
varying in size from
i ACEE TO OVEE 30 ACEES, viz.,
50-ACRE BLOCKS,
7 FARM LOTS, in area from 17 to 31 ACRES,
and
534 ALLOTMENTS.
«a* RIVERSTONE is very fast improving; it has the
DIRECT ADVANTAGE of RAILWAY COM.
MUNICATION: is already the seat of SEVERAL
LARGE WORKS, and is, moreover, in the
CENTRE of the most favoured ORANGE FARMS
of N.S.W.
BAIT, ROOD, AND PURVES,
TTAVE received instructions to sell the above
MOST VALUABLE ESTATE,
on
SATURDAY, 17th SEPTEMBER,
ON THE GEOUND,
WITHOUT THE SLIGHTEST RESERVE.
•7* RIVERSTONE, although really a RAILWAY
SUBURB, has been, until lately, closed to the public,
as the LAND in and about the STATION for miles
round has been in the hands of RICH CAPITALISTS.
The large area known as the RIVERSTONE ESTATE
is now in the Market FOB SALE, offering opportunities
to all to purchase some of the richest Land in the
COUNTY of CUMBERLAND, on the
EASIEST TEEMS.
TITLE—TOEEENS’ ACT.
TITLE—TOEEENS’ ACT.
TEEMS REMARKABLY EASY, viz.,
«r 10 PER CENT. CASH, 15 per cent, in 3 months,
and the BALANCE in 3 equal instalments, at
6, 12, and 18 months from DATE of SALE,
with 6 per cent, interest added.
LARGE SALE PLAN, LITHOS., and CARD PLANS
of the ESTATE at the BOOMS.
PLANS may also be OBTAINED at MR, REED'S
BOATSHED, FIGTBEE POINT, BALMAIN.
EEPEESHMENTS—BY TICKET ONLY.
SPECIAL TRAIN AND FREE TICKETS.
REMEMBER THE DAY OF SALE,
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17.
BATT, RODD, AND PUBVKS
AUCTIONEERS.
WAVERLEY. WAVBRLEY.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17.
SUBDIVISION OF (6) SIX ACEES
into
SPLENDID VILLA SITES,
as follows: —
FOUR (4) ALLOTMENTS fronting BIRBELL
STREET
TWENTY-ONE (21) ALLOTMENTS fronting
BOURKE STREET
FORTY-ONE (41) ALLOTMENTS fronting FITZ-
GERALD STREET.
*,* Each ALLOTMENT has a frontage of from 20
feet to 40 feet, by from 110 to 150 feet deep.
FREEHOLD TITLE.
T. MARSHALL, Esq., Pitt-street, Vendor’s Solicitor.
THESE ALLOTMENTS are only a short distance off
Cowper-street (the Tramway route), close to the
Public School and Telegraph Office, adjoining the
Water Reserve, and are in every way suitable for
the erection of villas and terraces.
LITHOGRAPHS AT THE ROOMS.
HARDIE and GORMAN have received in-
structions from Mr. W. FITZGERALD to sell
by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
at 3 o’clock,
on
SATURDAY, 17th SEPTEMBER,
The above described property.
LITHOS. AT THE ROOMS.
TERMS: Quarter cash, balance in 6, 12, and 18
months, bearing interest at the rate of 6 per cent.
COMEDY COMPANY
ADDRESS:
Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN PALMER, Charters Towers (Q.)
Great Success as Ecoles and Marquise St. Maur.
Rockhampton, middle of September.
“ Old Cookie,” the Trafalgar veteran at Mor-
peth, whose portrait appeared in The Bulletin, a few
Issues back, died on the 11th. His funeral on the 13th
was largely attended.
Use Jannasoh’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
game, fish, milk, &c., sweet during the hottest weather,
by speedy and simple process; no deleterious chemical
used. To be had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt.— Advt.
Mr Alex. Brown, one of the principal coal mine
proprietors at Newcastle, goes home on the 21st instant
Sn connection with the Privy Council’s trial of the
Dibbs-Brown suit. Before returning Mr. Brown will
tour to all the principal ports of the world.
Waterloo is growing in importance. It recently
acquired a fire-engine, the christening of which created
an occasion for a jolly gathering, speechifying, and a
vigorous attack on the good things usually provided on
such fetes; and the brigade have proved themselves
equal to any emergency in competing with the fiery
element. The suburb can since boast of a steam coffee
mill, the property of the well-known and spirited
grocer, Mr. E. S. Wilson, of Eaglan and Elizabeth
streets, which has proved a very great convenience to
his numerous customers. Advance Australia, —Anv.
LATE SPORTING.
The Maitland races are postponed to Tuesday
and Wednesday next.
A sculling match on the Thames on Sept. 12,
between Boyd, Largan, and Hawdon, resulted in a vic-
tory for the former in 24min. 24seo.
Mr. W. Gardiner has offered four 50-guinea
cups to be competed for —two by our rowing clubs and
two by our cricket clubs.
The Norwood Park Handicap resulted as fol-
lows :—J. Towney, 81 yards, 1; A. G. Young, 85 yards,
2; C. M'Donald, 82 yards, 3; J. Master a, 83 yards, 4,
North Shore Regatta takes place 19th Novem-
ber next. Crews are already being picked, and there is
a determination to moke the affair unusually in-
teresting.
The Toronto Regatta was brought to a conclu-
sion on the 12th instant. The single oar race resulted
in a victory for Ross. Trickett won the Consolation
Stakes, beating Gaudaur, who came in second, and
Hosmer, who took third place.
The fastest recorded time for the A. J.C. Derby
is that made by Robinson Crusoe, in 1876, viz., 2min.
The next best is Richmond’s, in 1875, 2min.
45seo. Grand Flaneur comes next with 2min. 45 15sec.
For the Victorian Derby, Chester, in 1877, and Suwar-
row, in 1879, ran a dead heat as regards time, each
being credited with having run the distance in 2min.
43seo. Briseis comes close up, with 2min. 43£sec., in
1876.
An athletic sports meeting was held at the Car-
coar Cricket Ground, on Saturday. Sept. 3. The first
event was a 125 yards’ spin, for £lB a side, between
Oatley and Dudley, resulting in an easy win for Oatley
in 13iseo. The Carooar Handicap, of 150 yards, fell to
Collard, scratch; Oatley, 7 yards, being second; and
Martin, 2 yards, third. A 120 yards’ handicap resulted
in a win for Collard, scratch; T. H. Martin, 3 yards,
being second.
Edward Hanlan, the Canadian oarsman, who
has beaten all the world at rowing, has a brother named
Jack (it is always Jack) who can beat him at fisticuffs.
Jack and Ed. had a dispute some time ago about some
property; the dispute led to a set to, and Ed. got the
worst of it. Jack was merciful, however, and though
he could have erected log huts over Ed.'s eyes, he re-
frained from doing so, because, as he said, he didn’t
want to disgrace his brother. Ed. has a sister who can
. row rings round , but stop, the yam has been told
before.
The last “ female go-as-you-please ” was at the
Exhibition building. We saw the start. The girls
looked nice. They’d taken their stays off to it, and, to
quote Bums, had almost “ linkit at it in their sarks,”
with a ribbon or two thrown in. The ribbons looked
crisp and fresh at the commencement, but at the close
were as limp and dishevelled as their wearers had be-
come. For the last few hours the wretched oompeti-
tors fairly staggered round the course, supported by
their greasy-looking "trainers," whose arms fami-
liarly entwined the oorsetless waists. And when the
struggle finished the victresses were carried on to the
stage in a fainting condition to receive the prizes. Nice
biz. for a respectable girl,—this go-as-you-please.
Harbour picnics nextjbest thing.
At last Hawkeabury races, a Parramatta scribe
wanted to back Monmouth, but as the ruling price was
■ 6 to 4 on that horse he determined to let mm alone.
However, an accommodating man stepped up in the
nick of time, and blandly said “ I’ll lay 2 to 1 against
Monmouth,” &c. Pressman jumped at the chance,
staked his money, and was handed a card which (as the
horses were on the point of starting) he hastily put into
his pocket. The race over, and protests discussed, the
Boribe went to the “book.” presented his ticket, and
asked for the money. “ What a fool you must be I ”
was the reply—“you backed the fljld." “I backed
Monmouth, and you know it: there’s the card for it."
■•‘Bah I" yelled the book —“read it." And there it
was, sure enough—he had backed the field. Moral;
Read your card. Pressman now drinks, but never
beta.
The sculling match, on Tuesday afternoon, for
£lOO aside, between Robert Edwards, of Melbourne,
and Donald M‘D maid, of the Clarence River, resulted,
after, perhaps, the most exciting struggle yet seen on
the Parramatta, in favour of the young Southerner,
who won by a length, having led throughout by dis-
tances varying from a few inches to lour lengths. At
the start, 6 to 4 was laid on M'Donald, and before the
close of the race perhaps £l5OO depended on the result.
M'Donald rowed a plucky race, but Edwards was mere
than his master, both as regarded skill and endurance.
The Clarence River man’s reason tor not starting in the
Walker Whisky competition was, it now appears, his
unwillingness to meet Edwards before their private
match, and so expose his hand. Some light is also
thrown by this on the poor show made by Edwards in
the final heat of the competition alluded to, after he had
gone a mile and found that he could not possibly got in
•front. Edwards is an aspiring youngster, and the very
best man of his weight south of the line. The time
was 25min. 7seo. The water was choppy during a great
portion of the race.
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, September 14,1881.
Meat Market—At the Darling Harbour railway-
terminus, the quality and supply at the Riverstone
Company’s depot continue good. Prices are : for prime
beef, 2Jd; medium, 2d; inferior, l|d, all round. At the
Homebush fat stock sales, the market is firm, having
advanced 10s to 15s per head. The beat lot of bv Hocks
averaged £7 14s 9d, a second lot £7 12s lOd, and others
rom £5 lls 3d. The primest lot of wethers averaged
from 6s 6d to 12s lid to 13s sd.
Farm Produce —On the wharves, yesterday, prime
green lucerne was selling at £3 to £3 5s ; do. old day, £3 j
medium samples £2 10s to £2 16s per ton. A good sup-
ply forward, and fair demand. At auction, yes-
erday, Messrs. Drunker and Wolfe quitted about 500
bales of lucerne at from £2 10s to £3 6s ; one prime lot
of green hay realised £3 12s; a large attendance of
buyers present. Maize is selling at 3s 3d; oats, 3s per
bushel; Circular Head potatoes £3 10s to £4; New
Zealand do., £2 to £ 210 s per ton; Victoria onions £l6;
do. chaff, £5 per ton, bags inclusive ; butter, in keg. Is
to Is 3dlper lb.; eggs, 8d per dozen ; bacon, 3d to 6d per
lb.; cheese, 5d to 9d; ham, 6d to Bd.
Poultry Market. —Ducks are selling at from 5s to 5s
6d per pair; geese, 6s to 7s do; fowls, 3s 3d to 3s 9d
de; turkeys, hens, 6s to 7s do; do, cocks, 10s to 14s do,
if good.
Flour Market.—This market continues steady for
good brands. A large quantity has arrived by sea and
rail this week. Prices are: For Sydney mill superfine
flour, £l3 10s per ton ; household, £l2 ,10s ; seconds,
£lllos ; N.S.W. country brands, £l3 to £l3 10s ; Vic-
orian. £l2 to £l3 10s ; Adelaide, £l3 to £l4. Bran and
pollard. Is 4d to Is 61 per bushel.
Wheat Market —The wheat market is somewhat
easier this week. Prices are : Adelaide wheat,{ 5s 6d to
Sa 9d per bushel; Victorian, 5s 6d; Launceston, 5s 3d;
New Zealand, 4s 9d to ss.


LOVE,
TEA IMPORTERS
EASTERN AND COMMI
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments,
receipt of
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize 1
PRESERVES —Indian Prize
COFFEE —Plantation No. (
Do. ~ Peabei
Do. „ Nos. 1
RICE —Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA —Flake and Pear
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Blaol
OFFICES 79 YORK S'
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BEI
o
JOHN D A
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers* and Engineers’ Brasswrre
Gasflttings, Globes, Electric Be
Butchers’ Brine Pun
Iron, Brass, Copper, T
and Lead Pipe, &o.
119 LIVERPOOL STREET, !
235 ;<
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL . kC
DIAG °»AI*~
ALLWOOL
TWEED
TO
Am
*
Most Pleasant
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the best cleansing DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the prevention of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can be found by using
PANTEE AND PARRY'S NEW EXTRACT
OF SOAP,
which not only contains the purest ingre-
dients for the greatest cleansing properties
ever yet introduced to the public, but is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM INDIGENOUS
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pleasing smell, will not injure the most deli-
cate hands, is the greatest time-saving of
labour, rendering any article cleansed there-
with of the purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT,
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Glass,
Point, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will be found on
EACH PACKET, which may be obtained
from all Greoers ‘and Storekeepers through-
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
in the World.
- THE BTEPHENS-TIFFIN HORS
WELL BORER AND ROCK DRILL.
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
WELL BORER & ROCK DRILL EVER OFFERED
We have taken up the agency of this machine after
thoroughly satisfying ourselves of its capabilities, and we
offer it to our patrons as a
Complete and Perfect Machine-
Copies of testimonials and certificates of work done in
Sydney— drilling 300 feet through solid rock-
will be forwarded on applicatiou.
WRITE US FOR CATALOGUES AND FULL PARTICULARS.
MARTIN & PAIN,
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
the Fan
HOR
ASHBY
HOWARI
RANSOM
TURNOVER H
AW
OUR P
MARTIN &
Cr l/RING
11. HUNTER ST
WATCHES
FROM J* .4.10.
SYDNEY
SEND FOR
CATALOGUE
rjIHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sy<
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
ONE
TRY
WIGZELL
rd-street.
Oxford
SYDNEY
STA
And
Om
0^
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE 1
Disinfectant
Safest and
ill
Dispense Prescriptions chei
other House in Sydney. All
Medicines at less than English p
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Spor
ALL KINDS OP DRUGGISTS*
Send for a Price List. Conntr
ally attended to. Don’t forget
Yon cannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s New I
W. KER
MANUFACTURING
WATCH AND CLOG
664 GEORGE STREET
Opposite St, Andrew’s
Medals'of every description. Mas
sentation Trowels designed i
Premises.
DIAMOND SET 1
A new and Choice Assortment
Mail and always in
Waltham Watches, froi
KING STREET S
TAILOR
m
o
f oß ° V otlS.
\SOW
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMAEKET.
gINGEE’S SEWING MACHINE
—JOHNSTON’S DEPOT,
HAYMARKET.
gINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cask, or 2a 6d per week.
JOHNSTON’ DEPOT.
T
HE LIGHT EUNNING STANDAED.
2s 6d per week, at
JOHNSTON’S, HAYMAEKET.
S INGEE’S SEWIN GIMACHINE S.
• _
11 2s 6d per week, at3®E3
SSSI JOHNSTON’SIIDEPOT,;
Z lUHATMABKBTC .
W 1
'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shelters,
TOBACCO
CUTTEES,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ao.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEOEGE STREET.
J. H U F T O
' WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER,
636 George-street.
Four doors from Liverpool-street.
N,
WATCHES and JEWELLERY Repaired on Premises.
All Work Guaranteed.
The original and genuine Jewellery Sale is still pro-
ceeding at A. J- HUTTON'S. A rare opportunity for
intending purchasers wishing to make wedding presents
or other gifts to their friends. ,
A splendid Stock to choose from. No puflt! Come
and see for yourselves.
Note the Address —
A. J. H U F T O N,
636 George-street.
