

Vol. 5-No. 54.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1881.
Price—3d.
Bulletin
The Conference.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1881.
Not much has been effected by the Conference ;
but we do not see in the circumstances anything
to gird at. We did not expect that much would
be effected. Blessed are they who expect little—
provided they keep their temper. It has been
positively ludicrous to notice how some, who threw
ridicule upon the Conference scheme from the out-
set, on the grounds that very little could come of
t, now effect an agony of surprise and indignation
because not much has resulted. On the whole, it
should be regarded as a very good thing that this
Conference has been held. Each of the colonies
has been cultivating a miserable parochial system
f political range. There has been a growing dis-
position to regard in each its peculiar geese as
swans, —even as black swans in some instances.
By bringing together leading men from all the
colonies, it has been possible to guage the actual
stature of the different leaders by larger compari-
sons than the restricted range of separate com-
munities permitted. The public has been enabled
to look at the different men without the embarrass-
ment of varied prospective, and with their own
eyes, instead of through the spectacles of pre-
judiced journalists. There has been something
absolutely diverting as well as enlightening in the
fashion in which sundry individuals regarded as
giants have been dwarfed by others heretofore
considered as distorted pigmies. The public of
New South Wales, accustomed as it has been
to see Sir Henbt Paekes towering above
his surrounding attendants and rivals by
a head and shoulders, and overbearing all
opposition by the apparent irresistibleness of
his strength, have seen with amusement the
cool ease with which the leading men of the
other colonies disposed of his pretensions and
derided his attempt to assume in his dealings with
them his favorite role of Dictator. Again, there
has been a great enlightenment in the opportunity
afforded of seeing with their own eyes, as it were,
that Geaham Beebt, the arqh-apostle of Protec-
tion, whom they had been taught to regard as a
sort of chance-begot abortion, compounded of
mischief and idiocy, and distorted out of all
semblance to a statesman. Instead of the reality
tallying with this description, so long and so sedu.
lously inculcated by prejudiced teachers, they have
discovered that the individual took without
apparent effort the most distinguished place among
all the representative men assembled, and towered
obviously and nnmistakeably above every one of
them in intellectual stature. Among them all
there has not been one whose utterances and
deliverances, whether in the Conference itself, or
on the social occasions which relieved its more
serious labors, carried so strong an impression of
ability, earnestness, and individuality. While the
rest, as a general thing, conveyed the idea that
they had no larger claim upon attention than
belonged to men competent to discuss common-
place in a conversational way, Mr. Beebt
conveyed the impression that he was a man with
ideas and purposes distinctively his own. It is
something, undoubtedly, that the public of the
colonies should have learned that a Protectionist
Minister is not necessarily a sort of illogical wind-
bag, inflated by a multitude of bad breaths, and
only needing the pin-prick of different conditions
to collapse. The merits of the opposed system of
colonial economics will be all the more justly
and truly weighed now that the false and
artificially raised idea is got rid of,
that every protectionist is a fool, according
to his degree, and that, as a Freetrader is an in-
spired individual, whatever his condition, a Free-
trade Minister must of necessity be able to twirl
even the greatest Protectionist statesman round
his fore-finger. The Conference has not suc-
ceeded in coming to any agreement respecting a
Federal Council. Its resolution as to a Court of
Appeal will probably come to nothing for the im-
mediate present. It has exhibited the sordid
pettiness that even the Federal Council—which
itself in some sort foreshadowed —might be cursed
by, in its poor-spirited rejection of Mr. Moegan’s
manly proposition that the united coimies should
jointly defray some part of the additional naval
expenses asked from the Imperial Government.
In all the points of agreement there has been a
Little-Pedlingtonian smallness, very disheartening
to those who, like ourselves, long to see Australia
great and united. But none the less, the small
things it has agreed upon are good things, and
none the leas likely to have practical issue because
they are small. It has to be remembered always
that the calibre of the men who participated in
the Conference is necessarily greater than that of
the average Parliamentary representative. Grand
or masterful conceptions would have little chance
of being understood or accepted by the legisla-
tors, even had they been adopted by the Con-
ference. They would have been blocked by nar-
rowness, ignorance, or timidity, and a common
consent would not have been attained. The Par-
liaments have to be educated up to the higher
standards of statesmanlike conception. It has,
for the present, been sufficient, to stir
up large airy ideals, in order that they may
ferment in people’s minds. The little jobs which
the Conference planned out are not the less likely
to be wrought out because they are small. The
best work done is, strangely enough, that which
is most likely to retard Federation. The bold
assault upon the Chinese Immigration scheme of
the Crown Colony of Western Australia is little
likely to be palatable to the Colonial Office, and
seems calculated to make the very idea of Federa-
tion taste bitter in official mouths. This is not a
bad thing. Nothing stimulates an idea so much
as opposition. Were it once felt that the Imperial
authorities would object, the craving for union
would become enormously stimulated, and as re-
sistance would merely defer matters long enough
to afford time for fully discussing all feasible
plana, there would be a clear gain in the end.
When the point was gained, a start would be
made with a matured plan, and with a publio
familiarized with every detail by earnest and
minute discussion.
The Hon. Graham Berry, Chief Secretary
of Victoria.
The public life of this gentleman, although a
success in a qualified sense, cannot be justly
called a surprise. His real abilities have, like
water, found their level— but without high pres-
sure. He is the natural outcome of democratic
principles, founded or based on a selfish theory of
isolation, and is just the man to give some show
of compactness to such a party—some gloss of
common sense to their tenets. Clever, adroit,
resolute, and apparently seldom troubled with the
qualms of a supersensitive conscience, it is not
surprising that he should come to be captain of
those turbulent political forces in Victoria, .whose
animating principle of action is more Yankee than
English. A premature go-a-headism and a free-
and-easy self-assertiveness began to distinguish
that colony several years ago, which could hardly
be designated British either in its inception or its
development. Rich as the Victorian territory is
in splendid industrial resources—in minerals,
timber, pastures, and magnificent expanses of
agricultural country, such as Gippsland—it is
strange that a majority of the people could not
be found to protect its import trade with the
rest of the world, instead of protecting a few
sickly industries. Even if those experiments
bloomed like the aloe (at the end of half-a-century),
it is curious that men, originally attracted to the
land by its raw products, should not have exhausted
those obvious means of easily-gotten wealth, before
attempting to force their few manufactures. Mr.
Berry rapidly rose to be field-marshal of the Pro-
tectionists, because he has versatile talents, is
naturally eloquent, unyielding except under
extrema pressure, prompt in action, and good at
driving a bargain. A certain ungainly gauntness
of physique only serves to stamp his individuality,
and renders him distinct in the same way that a
certain peculiarity of face and feature gives Sir
Henry Parkes the fine Socratio look he is said to
be proud of. Mr. Berry soon sounded, with the
divining rod of an active intelligence, the depths
and quality of the patriotism concentrated in the
Victorian Assembly, and found out the exact
number, constituting a working majority, which
would be loyal to him at a coat of ,£3OO a year each
to the State. Having been brought up in a hard,
practical school as a tradesman, he must, as a
young man, have thrilled (so far as an individual
of his temperament can vibrate to any emotional
process) with the loud and angry cries of the
British nation for a repeal of the Corn Laws and
the Reform of Parliament. That he lost, or
forgot in after years, the key-note of that national
strain is not ttvbe wondered at when we consider
that there for a long time a lively party on the
lookout for a champion to lead them to glorious
victory or political death. Mr. Berry was the
man for the occasion. He seized the golden
opportunity ; he took the tide at the flow, and has
been carried buoyant (for a time at least) to
the height of his ambition. His educational
ordeal is worthy of note. Born at memorable
Twickenham, on the 28th August, 1822, his infan-
tile eyes opened on some of the loveliest scenery
in England. At the age of seven he was sent to
school at Chelsea, whore he remained with credit till
his apprenticeship to business, when he was about
fifteen years old. The first gold news from Vic-
toria attracted him thither, towards the close of
1852. He started in Melbourne as a wine and spirit
merchant, and soon expanded his business widely.
After a short visit to England in 1856, he returned
to the land of his adoption, and in 1857 entered as
principal athh te on the political arena. In 1860
he was returned for East Melbourne, and, in 1861,
for Colling wood, where he secured the favour of
the electors till 1865, when he was rejected.
Nothing daunted, he took to newspaper literature,
as the.next best medium, after the House of As-
sembly, of stamping his views on large sections of
the people. While editing the Geelong Regis-
tee, his extreme fiscal opinions became popular,
as well as intelligible, because he wrote with vigour
and perspecuity—two qualities in a journalist
the general public very much admire. Mr.
Berry was looked upon as “ the coming man” in
1868, when he was elected for Geelong West, and
had his first beatification as Treasurer and Com-
missioner of Customs in the third M'Cullocb
Ministry (1871). which succumbed to the Francis’
coup-de-maia after a struggle of a few months’
duration. Next year he returned to power—also
as Treasurer and Commissioner of Customs—and
succeeded in carrying, notwithstanding much
opposition, his Protectionist tariff of 20 per cent.
ad valorem duties. Reaction followed, and Mr.
Berry and his colleagues suffered a second defeat;
but the hour of his crowning victory came at last.
On the defeat of Mr. Service, Mr. Berry formed
his first Administration ; but it had neither much
coherency nor vitality, as it was defeated on the
Land Tax, and being refused a dissolution, its
members in a fit of chargrin resigned. Fortune
(fickle as some of his thick-and-thin supporters)
seemed to have deserted him, wh-m a sudden
reaction came, which carried him to the Premie ;
place once more, and thus gave him an opportunity
of entering on that “vigorous policy’’ which
caused a deadlock of more than a year’s duratior
between the two Houses of Legislator
in Melbourne, and produced a volcanic
disruption in the Civil Service. Full of resources
even to the trial of daring experiments, he went tc
England on that notable embassy, accompanied by
Mr. Pearson, which would have proved a miser-
able burlesque if Mr. Berry’s real abilities had not
saved it from absolute ignominy. He and his
literary man Friday returned to the neighbouring
oolony somewhat sobered in mind, but, on the
whole, looking a'l the better for their “ cheap”
holiday. His presence at the late sessions of the
Intercolonial Conference in Melbourne and Sydney
gave dignity and apparent cohesion to the diplo-
matic muster, although the results of the dele-
gates’ deliberations are not of much moment.
Mr. Berry, however, during his visit to this city,
gained many admirers—not of his financial theories
but of his sterling ability, especially his intellectual
suppleness and moral courage. He made the best
possible defence of his policy at the Exchange
banquet, and certainly proved that a political
sophist, if he only believe boldly in his own infal-
libility, is sure to arrive at rhe truth circuitously
at last. It is merely necessary to assume as a
cardinal dogma that Victoria is intended by nature
to be the great manufacturing colony of the Aus-
tralias, and thn of the programme follows as
a matter of course; but others will deny the
premises. Mr. Berry is said to be genial, humor-
ous, and affectionate in private life.
THE HON. GRAHAM BEERY, CHIEF SECRETARY OF VICTORIA.—[Photo, by Boyd.]


SOCIETY MU FASHION.
Mrs. John Frazer will give a ball at Quiriang
on Feb. 8.
An interesting breach of promise case is on the
tapis at Camden.
A new fashion. —Figured Madras muslin,
trimmed with vermicelli lace to match.
Mrs. John Marks, of Glenrock, Darling Point,
will give a party about the middle of this month.
An ex-amateur dramatic manager, of Campbell-
town, has won a prize aged eighteen. The date fixed.
Religion is no longer, at least in this city, a bar
to the daughters of Judah marrying whom they please.
A partner in a soft goods house on the Northern
line is engaged to the youngest daughter of the Laird of
Aberglassyn, Maitland.
Balmain is not the only favored spot. There is
a grand chance for a handsome bachelor to make a
good win at the Paterson.
It is stated that a handsome and gifted daughter
of one of our bank managers is engaged to the son of a
former Governor of V ictoria.
An English lady, staying at Campbelltown for
her health, has found a dashing young husband. New
lease of life now. Nuptials shortly.
The am/able daughter of a well-known spirit of
the Maitland Hospital is soon to be brought-on to the
matrimonial scene by a Newcastle beau.
Mr. Willie Cowper, second son of the Sheriff, is
engaged to Miss Elliott, eldest daughter of F. Elliott,
Esq., of Elizabeth Bay. Marriage shortly.
A young lady, hailing from Darlinghurst Road,
and a young French gentlemen residing in Victoria-
street, are shortly to be united. Great preparations.
A well-known and equally liked belle living not
very far from Ashfield, is about to be married to a
handsome gentleman hailing from the Wellington
district.
The dashing bachelor of the Maitland railway
epartment will shortly lead to the hymeneal altar the
handsome daughter of a proprietor of an old-established
newspaper in the district.
The daughter of a well-known stock and station
agent and a newly-elected M.P. of a northern constitu-
ency is engaged to a young gentleman of means, who
lately left the Grammar School.
We are given to understand that the daughter
of a J.P., of Forest Lodge, is to be led to the altar by a
gentleman from Queensland. The wedding is to take
place at the residence of the bride’s father on the 9th
of February.
Report hath it that the stalwart son of a Braid-
wood merchant has secured the affections of the highly
accomplished daughter-of a prominent ex-M.L.A.,
resident near Darling Point. All Braidwood congratu-
lates the unknown lassie.
The marriage of Mr. Launcelot Lloyd, son of
Mr. Q. A. Lloyd, M.P., to Alice Emily, daughter of
Mr. John Williams, Crown Solicitor, is fixed for Feb.
23. The ceremony, we are informed, will take place at
St. John’s, Darlinghurst.
Parramatta races were honored by the presence
of some charming ladies. White dresses and red para-
sols looked exceedingly well. Some mothers looked as
fresh looking ns their daughters, and the mothers were
only surpassed by their daughters, Ac.
A young lady, who hails from Woollootnooloo,
was a short time ago engaged to a young lady from
Adelaide, for a few days. The reason for the engage-
ment being broken off was that there was someone
better in view. Unfortunately, “ between two stools,’’
&c, she is now disengaged — we hope not for long,
however.
Pitt-street for fashionable millinery ! There’s
a duck of a bonnet in Mr. J. L. Hordern’s window. It
is of white English straw, bordered with passementerie
of gold placed on a bias of brown velvet. Trimming of
Turkish broeht? round the crown ; feathers of gold and
seal brown. IS ow who could resist a pretty girl in such
a bonnet.
Some charming and spirited girls were at the
Toxteth Tenis Club picnic on Saturday last, and the
styles were rather taking. Two young ladies, ap-
parently sisters, made several conquests ; and a tall,
fair damsel from Pyrmont, had a troop of admirers;
and a charming blonde, address Hereford-street, was
quite captivating. The two daughters of a Glebe al-
derman were no less attractive. The picnic was very
successful.
At St. Mark’s, Darling Point, on a recent Sun-
day, was witnessed a rather striking coincidence in the
attendance at morning service of some distinguished
people from town. Probably the presence of the popu-
lar son of his Excellency the Governor had something
to do with it. By the bye, the music at St. Mark’s is
worth listening to now, and Mr. Kemmis, who gained
golden opinions for his eloquent preaching in Mel-
bourne, has returned after a pleasant visit to the
Southern city. On Sunday last the choir rendered the
Te Deum and the Jubilate Deo in magnificent style.
A good deal of amusement baa been afforded to
exhibitors at Melbourne by watching the flirtation of a
young lady well known in Sydney, and living some-
where in the direction of Parramatta. Her weakness
was one of the secretaries in the German Commission.
This young fellow has won the hearts of no less than
half-a-dozen young girls, and it was very amusing to
watch him dodging his other five sweethearts when in
possession of one. His latest has returned to Sydney,
it is said. He is now to be seen with a fresh one.
N.B.—We hope this wasn’t written by a gentleman who
“ feels a little hurt.” —Ed. B.]
The concert at the Masonic Hall last week did
not engage the attention much of the musical or
fashionable folks of Sydney. Miss Christian’s appear-
ance certainly ought to have had more recognition; and
the plebian character of the audience could scarcely have
been encouraging to the director of the Strauss Baud,
who, it is understood, was present. The great feature in
the dress line was the now omnipresent bath-towel,
which, doubtless, was assumed in anticipation of the
heat for which this model ventilated hall Is remarkable.
A few ladies were singular in their garb; one
had on a head dress of crimson satin set in a black
velvet crown, while the Indy herself set in the cumbrous
folds of a capacious silk dress. Another had her hair
bound about with parallel bars of black velvet, set in
with stars which glittered famously in the gaslight;
perhaps she was American and that accounts for the
selection. Noticeable also were two little princesses in
their bibs.
A choral wedding was celebrated recently at the
fashionable church of St. John’s, Darlinghurst, when
Mr. Lee Lord, a wealthy Bathurst gentleman, became
the husband of a young lady bearing the name of
Smith—a niece of Mr. Street, a well-known solicitor of
this city. The bride, a tall, dark young lady, in pos-
session of a pair of large brown eyes, which gleamed
brightly through her bridal veil, was prettily dressed in
a combination of silk and ivory satin, richly trimmed
with lace. The customary bridal bouquet and orange
wreath completed the toilette. The bridesmaids—seven
in number —wore short costumes of white tarlatan,
relieved with alternate kiltings of lace and old gold
satin; half necklets of yellow daises; white chip hats,
trimmed with lace and yellow daisies; white satin shoes,
garnished with gold satin rosettes; and each lady
carried a bouquet composed of white and red blossoms.
The service was a choral one, and two clergymen per-
formed the ceremony.
The departure of the Hydaspes some days ago,
was the occasion for the turn-out of a strong contingent
of the Sydney young ladies to see some distinguished
colonists leave —a few for Melbourne, and the rest foi
Europe. The young ladies calculated largely upon the
scenes likely to be produced by the adieux of some
newly-married couples; but they experienced a sell
from the non-appearance of the principal pair, who
went overland. Indeed the couple who did turn uj
ought to have adopted the same course, for they were
the most unlikely couple imaginable, and elicited
scarcely complimentary remarks from the crowd gene
rally. There was a heavy sprinkling of Catholic clergj
in the crowd, too, whose mainly centred it
his honor Justice Faucett, , jing* on a trip for hii
health to Europe. Noticeable among the well, dressed
young ladies, were the daughters of a distinguished
suburban resident, whose dresses were however scarcel;
consistent with the character of the weather.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Bishop of Grafton returned by the John
Elder.
Prosperous Germany! In 1875, only 34,882 1
criminals ; in 1878, 900,642.
More than 3,000 Hindoo girls are being eduoa- ,
ted in Christian schools in India.
The Bishop of Sydney is recovering, but he has
been advised to take complete rest. (
St. Paul’s Church of England Cathedral, Mel- !
bourne, is to be built of Pyrmont stone.
A great many are in arrears for pew-rents in ,
Bt. Stephen’s (R.C.) Cathedral, Brisbane.
Rev. Curwen Campbell will remain at Blayney,
notwithstanding an invitation to go to Orange.
Dr. Lanigan, Bishop of Goulburn, now in Europe,
has subscribed £5 to the Parnell Defence Fund.
There are now eight Protestant churches in i
Florence, Italy, and the attendants number 5000.
The Congregational Sunday Schools have con'
tributed £5O towards the funds of the Children’s Hos-
pital.
The Presbyterian brethren are much divided as
to whether Paddington or Saint Andrew is “ Ursa
Major.”
The contributions to Protestant missions in
various parts of the world are estimated at £1,250,000
annually.
Dean Beechinor has been presented by the
Catholics of Hobart with an address and a purse of
sovereigns.
At the Presbyterian Church, Manly, when Mr.
Benthrow preached, last Sunday, not a dozen persons
were present.
It is stated that several priests of the Church
of Rome are at present seeking admission into the Pres-
byterian Church of Canada.
The Rev. Mr. Priddle, Church of England -
clergyman at St. Luke’s, Liverpool, left for England on
the 28th on leave of absence.
Last year New South Wales sent home =£l2oo as
contributions to British and Foreign Bible Societies,
and Australia generally £4400.
Mr. Gordon Forlong has been contending before
the Y. M. C. A. of Wellington, N.Z., that there was
such a thing as everlasting punishment.
The Sydney Hebrew Philanthropic and Orphan
Society held its annual meeting on Sunday. Twelve
pensioners received permanent relief during the year.
Four million copies of the scriptures have been
sold in Prance. It is alleged that now 500,000 young
men in the army know the gospel of St. John by heart.
A welcome tea-meeting was given at Penrith to
Rev. G. Brown, attended by ministers of all denemi-
nations. Mark that, M'Quven—“of all denominations."
Rev. John Macintosh, Belfast, one of the
delegates to the Pan-Presbyterian Council in Phila-
delphia, has received a call from Chicago, with an offer
of £l2OO per annum.
The Presbyterian says: — “ For a subject we
would suggest that of systematic giving." A very good
subject, too.—Subscription to the PaEBBTTERrAH, etc. 1
So much a quarter.
The anniversary of the Church of England >
Temperance Society was held on Tuesday, Rev. Mr.
Pain preached, and the Bishop of Goulburn presided at
the public meeting.
At the Wesleyan Conference, Melbourne, the
Rev. Q. Daniel, of Tasmania, was elected President.
The Rev. J. B. Stephenson was elected to a similar
position at Adelaide.
You may write it down in your note book as an
indisputable fact, that when a man talks a groat deal
about his religion, he is simply exaggerating his capital
in order to catch trade.
Rev. Mr. Price, of Geelong, on leaving for
Sydney, was presented with a purse and an address by
his congregation, and also with a purse from the
Protestant churches of the town.
Before leaving her Highland home in November,
the Queen called at Crachie manse, and took leave of
Mr. and Mrs. Campbell, the minister on whose adminis-
trations she had attended during her stay at Balmoral.
The Rev. Mr. Elcum, late chaplian to the
Bishop, has been on a visit to the Pitcairners of Norfolk
Island. A petition is to be presented him by his Ade-
laide friends, requesting him to remain in South
Australia.
R. W. Emerson says : —“ I know nothing which
life has to offer so satisfactory as the profound under-
standing which can subsist, after much exchange of
good offices, between two virtuous men, each of whom
is sure of himself, and sure of his friend.”
In the New England States of America, accord-
ing to official date, divorces are more frequent than
they were in Paris at the time of the French Revolu-
tion. “ His Grace ’’ will doubtless seize this, as it is
in the New England States the Public School system
only prevails.
A New York paper says:—The Protestant
Episcopal Church is holding its Triennial Convention
in this city. This exceedingly respectable denomina-
tion seems to get through with more congresses,
diocesan conventions, synods, conferences, biennial,
triennial, contennial and millennial meetings than any
religious organization in Christendom.”
At an interesting baptismal ceremony in a pro-
minent Presbyterian Church, on Sunday evening last,
an additional air of sanctity was lent to the performance
by the fact that the fluid wherewith two of the infants
were sprinkled was brought all the way from the River
Jordan for the express purpose by their reverend (and
then prospective) grandparent. We are also informed
—but this news requires confirmation—that after the
ceremony, which was conducted throughout in the
most impressive manna, the happy party adjourned into
the vestry, to partake of a sumptuous repast of locusts
and wild honey. Oh, shade of John the Baptist! We
hope the worthy pastor will not consider this an acid
i “ drop."
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Thomas Carlyle dying.
University boat-crews practising.
Skobeloff defeated the Turcomans.
Serious Lancashire riots. Military present.
Boers retiring before Sir George Colley’s
advance.
Irish members continue a bitter fight in House
of Commons.
Irish Coercion Bill being pressed through the
Honse of Commons.
Fenian proclamations issued and posted in
various parts of England. Considerable sensation.
Gladstone promptly contradicts the statement
that he is about to take a seat in the House of Lords.
Queen expresses, in special message, regret at
the loss of her brave soldiers in the reverse with the
Boers.
Bad news from the Cape. The Boers greatly
outnumber the British forces. Temporary retreat
certain.
Increased excitement over Fenian operations.
All the armouries in the United Kingdom strongly
guarded.
America consents to bear jointly with New
South Wales and New Zealand the expense of the
Pacific mail subsidy.
British repulsed in their attack on the Boers at
Langnnck. Loss —190 killed and wounded, including five
officers killed and three wounded. The enemy’s
position was very strong.
House of Commons twenty-two hours’ sitting
over Gladstone’s motion that the bill for the maintenance
of order in Ireland should take precedence of all other
business. Motion carried.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
[Bt One op Us.]
The secretaryship of the Queensland Insurance
Co. is again vacant. What a happy time the successful
applicant will have with such a non-exacting board of
directors ; they want the secretary to he blower of the
organ, as they all want to blow at once, accompanied by
B—— on the big trumpet.
The greatest bore in Australia. The enormous
Queensland boa constrictor killed by Mr. Sachs, mea-
sured thirty-one feet—more or less 1 The report that
Leichhardt’s remains were found in its body is not
properly authenticated. The story, however, obtains
as much credence as another discovery. Strange!
The Honourable Boyd-Morehead, late political
leader of the notorious Queensland “ sub-sexion,”
possesses a large stock of dry, caustic humour, which
certainly asserted itself on the occasion of “Dingo”
Walsh defending the squatter against the attacks of
some anti-pastoralist members. “Is it a sin, Mr.
Speaker, to be a squatter ?” snarled Walsh, in the per-
oration of his speech. “Isit a crime, Mr. Speaker, to
be a grazier?” “Yes,” interrupted Morehead.
“ Wasn’t Nebuchadnezzar sent grazing for his sins ?”
Before the gift of healing descended upon
him, he used to exercise his intellect on revo-
lutionising the prevailing system of quartz-crushing.
The invention of a machine with a complicated ar-
rangement of hammers was the result, and an enter-
prising purchaser was found in General Bennett, who
took the new quartz-crusher to Etheridge goldfields.
After the lapse of six months, the inventor wrote to
General B, asking fora report on its effectiveness, &c.
Bennet sent the following characteristic reply:—
“Dear sir, your machine is a great success/ As a
crusher it stands unequalled. The hammers crushed
the wood and iron-work of the machine; they crushed
one another; they have entirely crushed the pro-
prietor ; they will crush anything in existence—except
the quartz ! You are at liberty to publish this.” It
never was published, however—until now.
Mo club in Australia commands more wit,
ality, and kindly feeling than the Johnsonian Club,
bane. Warm-hearted Charles Lilley (Chief Justice
of Queensland), the cleverest man of the day, is Presi-
dent; Judge Paul, the best raconteur in the colonies,
Vice-President. Then come a string of literati, includ-
ing such men as Brunton-Stephen, (Godolphin Ara-
bian), Earle, Pavene, Lukin, Newton, Boyd, Senior
(“ Eedspinner ” of the “Field”), Drury (the hanker),
Griffith (“Our Sam,” now on the iron rail crusade to
England), Bernays (of acclimatisation fame), poor
Beor, now no more, Macrossan (Minister for Works),
Fielberg, dear old Bobby Byrne (Punch), Wilson, Dr.
O’Doherty, Buzacott (Courier), Miller, Carter, the
genial Secretary; the country and Northern towns
being fitly represented by wits like Sachs of Townsville,
and Ballard (Engineer of Railways) of Rockhampton.
Members are only elected from the ranks of those inti-
mately associated with Art, Science, and Literature;
whilst a clause in the rules stipulates that, in addition
to such qualification, each member must be “ a righte
good felloe.” During a ballot, “pills” are freely ad-
ministered, and it is easier for an alligator to get
through a keyhole, than for a wealthy ignoramus to be
elected a member of the Johnsonian Club.
Interior View of the Australian Mutual
Provident Society’s Office.
A short time back we glSve an illustration of the
exterior of the new office of the Australian Mutual
Provident Society—the premier institution of the
kind in this hemisphere,—and in this issue we
present our readers with an engraving which will
serve to convey some idea of the architecture of
the interior of this splendid structure. The build-
ing rises to the height of three storeys, and the
basement floor (herewith illustrated) is where the
Society conducts its chief business. The view on
entering from Pitt-street is very imposing, and a
person is no sooner within its portals than he finds
the building constructed in respect of elegance,
light, and ventilation, on plans quite new to us in
this quarter of the globe. Lofty stone columns
rise from the floor, and the ceiling exhibits the
highest artistic elegance in stucco work. The
tesselated floor is in keeping with the richness of
design and execution elsewhere observable. The
counters are of solid and finely carved cedar, and
the arrangements herein are such as to bring
the wbole working staff together, ensuring
uninterrupted operations. The secretary’s, the
accountant’s, and other of the principal offices,
are on the same floor, and adjoin the chief
place of business. They are very handsomely
furnished. The idea appears to have been to
bring the entire working staff well into hand, to
ensure the fullest results without the distressing
effects produced by defective hygenic arrange-
ments, and to offer improved facilities for the
increased business of the Society; and certainly
in no edifice that we know of in these colonies
have these great desiderata been so completely
secured. Our engraving was executed by The
Bulletin artists, Mr. W. Macleod and Mr. E.
Mason.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Karl Theodore (Staiger, analytical
chemist.”—Ad vr.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
[From Our Last Correspondent. J
Friday, January 2S.
In the intercolonial brass band contest, Sand-
hurst was awarded first prize.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke has taken a party of
friends in his cutter yacht, Janet, on a cruise to
Tasmania.
Melbourne is crowded with country visitors, for
the cheap return fares have been issued on some of the
Government lines, and all who can, avail themselves of
them.
Miss Marian Hall, of Richmond, took the veil
at the Newtown Convent, Geelong, last week. Arch-
bishop Goold performed the rites. It was a most im-
pressive ceremony. ,
The guests staying with Mrs. Clarke at
Eapertswood, Sanbury, are having a most enjoyable
visit—amateur theatricals, dancing, lawn tennis,
riding and driving parties constituting the favorite
amusements.
The following conundrum has been going the
rounds here. It was sent to us in the London Town
Talk, and is worthy of repetition; —“ How do lawyers
live, sleep, and die ? They live by the law and the
profits. The sleep lying—first on one side, and then on
the other. They die lying still.”
Two fashionable young ladies, just arrived from
England, astonished their friends by appearing at a ball
here lately with hair arranged, or, rather, deranged, in
small curls all over their heads in the truly aesthetic
style, reminding one forcibly of the aesthetic young
ladies represented in Punch by Du Maurier’s clever
etchings.
M. Henri Kowalski’s afternoon recital in the
Exhibition was a great success. Miss Annis Montague
gaining great praise for her artistic rendering of the
“ Mignon Polonaise ” and the vocal waltz, “ Folle
Ivresse,” new to Melbourne audiences. This was the
first time vocal music had been introduced at the Ex-
hibition recitals.
Miss Pomeroy’s engagement at Ballarat ended
this week. She was well received. One of the reporters,
however, happened to say more of Miss Deorwyn’s
acting in his critique than Miss Pomeroy or her agent
thought necessary. He was advised of this, but not
taking the warning, when he appeared one evening
afterwards at the theatre he was refused admission on
his pass. Talent must be appreciated I
Miss Marianne North, who has been painting
the wild flowers, plants, and landscapes of Australia,
with an intention of future publication, has gone to
Tasmania, and purposes visiting New Zealand, Sand-
wich Islands, and California, on her way home. She
has been in Western Australia, where, I am sure from
an intimate knowledge of the beautiful indigenous flora
there, she has had great scope for the display of her
acknowledged talent.
The death announced by telegram of Mr
Eichard Blackwood, partner in the well-known firm of
Dalgetty, Blackwood and Co., while visiting the Pro cos
in the London Docks, has caused a general feeling of
regret, not lessened, I am pained to add, by the con-
tinned illness of his brother, Mr. James Blackwood.
These gentlemen were so well known, and held in such
esteem here, that much sympathy is felt for their fa mi.
lies in this joint affliction.
Last week I intimated that it was possible we
had not heard the end of tha action of the Hospital
Committee in dismissing Dr. Thomas, and on Tuesday
last, when this body met to appoint his successor, for
which position applications had been invited, lo! there
was only one—that one being from Dr. Thomas himself.
Surely no committee was ever placed in so ludicrous a
fix; but there was no help for it. They swallowed the
leek, and re-appointed the sturdy doctor.
Mrs. Meaney gave a children’s fancy dress ball
on Wednesday night, at her residence, St. Kilda. A
great many children were present, and all sorts of
amusements were provided. A juvenile entertainment
of this sort is the prettiest sight imaginable. A splen-
did list, accompanied by excellent illustrations and
descriptions, was given in the Christmas number of the
Graphic as guidance in the matter of juvenile fancy
costume, which has evidently been the rage in London.
Mrs. Meredith’s two new books, entitled, “ Our
Island Home” and “Tasmanian Friends and Foes, Fea-
thered, Furred and Finned,” have caused a stir in colonial
literature. The first book, in prose and verse, is de-
scriptive of Tasmania, illustrated with reproductions of
twelve drawings by the authoress. The second is also
illustrated with chrome-lithographs from coloured
drawings from the pen of Mrs. Meredith, and the letter-
press presents her in the character of naturalist, artist,
and chronicler of country life. The books are pro-
nounced genuine works of art.
A grand luncheon was given last week by Mrs.
Petty at her residence. Black Eock, near Brighton,
situated close to the beach. Herr Flock’s band was
engaged, and played selections during the afternoon,
when the guests (about sixty in number) assembled in
the grounds surrounding the house, and engaged in
lawn tennis, archery, and all sorts of games. High tea
was prepared later on, and after this private amateur
performances took place, consisting of an act from
“ Our Boys,” and the pretty little comedietta, “ My
Uncle’s Will," in which the two Miss Pettys, Mr.
Alfred Levey, Signor Barraehi, and Mr. Frank Duffy
took part. A beautiful little stage, with correct
scenery, had been erected. The acting was much
applauded, and the dresses were gorgeous in the
extreme. After the performance, dancing was com-
menced in a marquee erected for the purpose, and kept
up till an early hour in the morning, the entire party
being conveyed to and fro in drags driven gala fashion,
four-in-hand.
At the animal meeting of the Dramatic and
Musical Association, our old friend George Coppin
announced his intention of resigning the office of
Mastership, and his retirement from the stage. His
wardrobe is to be sold, and whatever it realises is to go
to the funds of the Association. If the sale of this
generous gift were conducted by auction, well adver-
tised, the object being made thoroughly known, I
believe a very large sum would be obtained, from the
keen competition which would be evoked between pur-
chasers desirous of obtaining a souvenir of the jovial
donor, “ whose flashes of merriment were wont to set
the house in a roar.” There is something sad in the
suggestive reply he made to the generally expressed re-
gret consequent on his determination: “ I feel that it
is time to make room for those coming after me.” The
time has been when such a statement would only have
raised laughter and the cry, “Oh, it’s only one of
Coppin’s dodges !” I observe, as usual in all matters
where objects commend themselves to his judgment,
that the Hon. W. J. Claxke liberally heads the sub-
scription list of the Association. So kind and generous
a giver is the honorable gentleman, that no one envies
him the possession of the immense wealth he so nobly
uses.
Signor Verdi’s grand concert d’adieu, held in
the Town Hall last Saturday evening, was a great
success, being well attended. Both hall and balconies
were crowded. Mrs. Cutter’s non-appearance was a
disappointment to many. However, Signor Palma
sang in her stead, and gained well-deserved applause.
She wore a black satin dress, with a long train in front
of the skirt, was gathered, and the body trimmed with
white lace and crimson roses. Signora Coy and Miss
Montague were the other lady vocalists. The former
wore a trained dress of cream-colored silk trimmed
with pale blue satin and lace, and the latter black silk
made plainly with a long train and black sleeves, which
are still so fashionable. Her hair was dressed very high
with roses placed in front a little to one side. They all
wore white kid gloves ; indeed, white kid gloves were
worn by many of the audience, and the fascination
for the sombre hue, so much worn lately,
seems to have come to an end. Some of
the dresses worn by ladies in the audience were very
handsome—notably one worn by a distingue fashionable
young married lady. It was made of cream-coloured
satin, the body high and buttoned down the back, with
tight elbow sleeves, and long cream-coloured gloves.
The front of the skirt was draped and trimmed with
lace; the train was very long, cut square in mitred tales,
finished with a border of frilled lace peeping beneath.
Her hair was worn low at the back and curled on the
top, as in the fashion. The only jewellery worn was a
diamond butterfly, which flashed from its place among
the curls, and small diamond earrings.
INTAGLIOS.
Do the Dead Know?
They asked for white roses—they came in the gloom,
The sweet summer sunshine had fled,
And the only colour that shone in the room
Was the golden glow of her head.
So still the shuttle, so still the 100m —
Do the dead know they are dead ?
They wreathed in her tresses a jessamine spray.
Her white hands clasping a rose;
Did she mark that hot tear drops, instead of dew, lay
In the petals of each ? God knows!
I pressed her cold hand, and tore me away—
But she kept her eye-lids closed!
The pink flush of morning crept over the sea—
She neither saw, felt it, nor knew ;
I stooped by the casket on low-hended knee.
And wet the white petals anew—
“ O tears! - Sink through petals and white hands, and see
If her heart will not answer to you ! ”
In her hands the rose—when the time comes to wake
In that far-off land of lands,
She will see the flower that I culled for her sake
And placed in her waxen hands;
She will see the tears—will her fond heart break
When she sees and understands ?
The Thoughts Unuttered.
A word unspoken, a hand unpressod,
A look unseen or a thought unguessed,
And souls that were kindred may live apart—
Never to meet or know the truth,
Never to know how heart beat with heart.
In the dim past days of a wasted youth.
She shall not know how his pulses leapt
When over his temples her tresses swept,
As she leaned to give him the jasmine wreath.
She felt his breath, and her face flushed red
With the passionate love that choked her breath.
Saddens her life now her youth is dead.
A faded woman who waits for death.
And murmurs a name beneath her breath ;
A cynical man who scoffs and jeers
At women and love in the open day.
And at night-time kisses, with bitter tears,
A faded fragment of jasmine spray.


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
Temora further very rich yields-
Parramatta is the “ cradle] of the Australian
Turf.”
Wood is now being generally used in London for
street making.
A mouse was discovered in a spider’s web the
*ther day at Temora.
The principal Adelaide banks discount first-class
trade bills at 5 per cent.
John Cameron, sen., 100 years old, recently died
at Turakina, Wanganui, N.Z.
The profits derived from the exportation of
butter per Protos are said to be £2500.
The annual balance-sheet of the Kaiapoi (N.Z.)
wollen factory, shows a balance of £1638 18s 8d.
Attendance at the Museum for January, 1881:
—Week days, 7,096 ; Sundays, 3,032 ; total, 10,128.
Signor Verdi proceeds to Europe shortly for the
purpose of bringing out an Italian opera company.
Dynamite pills are the latest invention of a
Gulgong chemist. They have superseded the lightning
pills.
Two German men-of-war from Japan are ex-
pected to visit Melbourne in course of the next fort-
night.
The American papers make much out of that
affair between the jockey Bancroft and Mr. Joseph
Thompson.
Old Government House, Parramatta, is almost
certain to be be the vice-regal residence for Lord
Augustus Loftns.
The cause of the sinking of the powder maga-
zine at Brisbane has not been ascertained. Over £500
worth of powder was lost.
The Municipal account for Dunedin is now
overdrawn at the Bank of New Zealand, to the amount
of £10,039 5s. 8d. Like Sydney Council.
Mr. King, manager of the Commercial Bank,
Camden, is shortly to be removed to the Windsor
Branch. Much lamenting among both sexes.
A man named Adolph Morritzon has been
arrested at Dunedin, N.Z., on a charge of embezzling
Moneys from the Standard Insurance Company.
A number of influential gentlemen have con-
sented to be nominated to the committee of the Mel-
bourne Hospital, with a view to effect a reformation.
A Eamrod Fishing Club has been started in
Carcoar among the fair sex. The first outing took
place on Friday last, the result being the capture of
nearly two dozen of the finny tribe.
During a heavy storm near Orange, a creek
became very much swollen. A farmer named Burns
was crossing with his team, when the lot were washed
away. Bums and his cattle being drowned.
In a letter (received by the last mail) the Hon.
W. Forster makes the following ominous remark :—
“ It is quite possible I may be able to enlighten your
public upon matters of detail in connection with the
agency.” We recommend the consideration of this par.
to Sireneree.
The Hon. W. Forster, in a breezy epistle to a
friend, remarks s—“ I can quite imagine the worthy
Knights playing the magnanimous game, and profes-
sedly welcoming me back." So can we; but our im-
agination would fail to compass the possible “ games ”
•f these two old parties.
An Amateur photographer, at Adelong, was
recently nearly drowned. He was out duck shooting,
had climbed carefully along a log projecting into the
water, and fired. Bang went the gun, and bang went
the sportsman into the water. Nobody would say now
that that gun hadn’t a kick in her.
At Dunlop’s station, near Bourke, a well has
been sunk, and a good supply of water obtained at 488
feet. Another shaft is being put down on the same line
and the men expect to reach water at 350 feet with the
pipes used. Curious strata of shells, etc., werepassed
through at 300 feet, and samples of them have been for-
warded for a geologist’s opinion.
The profit of the Colonial Bank of New Zealand
for the half-year is £13,862, which, with the balance
from the previous half-year, makes a total of £15,836
divisible. Of this the directors recommend carrying
over £1,000 to the reserve fund (which then stands at
£28,000), payment of a six-per-cent dividend, absorbing
£11,900, and carrying forward £1943.
On Anniversary Day, a sailing boat (in which
were several ladies, collided with the Bungaree. The
little boat ran right under the paddles of the steamer;
and though the diminutive craft was nearly swamped,
mot a scream was heard from any of the fair ones. The
darlings exhibited not only courage, but grace—in
short, they turned out to be, we might say, in a double
sense, modem Grace Darlings.
One for Mr. Moriarty ! A correspondent says -.
—“ I was at the opening of the Nepean water scheme
twelve months ago. Mr Moriarty and several others
said in their speeches that the whole scheme would be
completed in about three years. The meeting was to
celebrate the firing of the first shot that was to con-
nect Broughton’s Pass with the Nepean at Pheasant’s
Nest, a distance of 4i miles. All tunnel work done
during the twelve months amounts to about 270 yards.
Yon can calculate when the contract will be done if you
have time.
The body of the youth Daniel White, missed a
fortnight since, whilst shooting on Hexham swamps,
was discovered on Saturday morning by two youths
who were out duck-shooting in the reeds. The body
was iu a sitting posture, and the deceased was grasping
his gun in both hands. One side of his head was com-
pletely blown off, and the body was much decomposed.
The position of the body was so natural that one of the
youths, on seeing it, thought it was living, and struck
it lightly on the head with his hand, when he discovered
the horrible reality.
The long-pending N.Z. riot case, which took
place at Timaru, has at last been settled. In passing
sentence, the Judge said he would take into considera-
tion the long time that had elapsed since the trial (ten 1
months) and the fact that an Orange procession had
since been held without molestation. Driscoll, having 1
promoted disturbance by his letters, was fined £100.
The others—Towers. O’Hea, O’Connell, Darby, and
Monahan—were required to enter into their own recog- 1
ai ranees to appear for sentence when called on. His 1
Honor’s concluding exordium was : “ One word before •
you go. Sin no more, lest a worse thing will come to
you.” ]
At St. Augustine’s Church, Balmain, last Sun- 1
lay, a grand musical service was given by the following
artistsMrs. F. Riley (soprano), Mrs. G. F. Jackson ,
(contralto), Mr. G. F. Jackson (tenore) and Mr. T.
O'Sullivan (basso). The Mass performed was Hadyn’s)
1st in B flat, and at the Offertory Mrs. Riley’s beautiful ,
voice was heard in (Carmuscis) Salve Regina, which was
charmingly s«ng Mr. Jackson also sang the “ Gratius ”
10 the Gloria, with telling effect. Mr. T. O’Sullivan ,
?1 *ve a grand rendering of the bass solos in the Mass, ,
which stamps him as an artist of considerable ability, ]
ms full round voice lending quite a charm to the Mass.
Mr. C. Curtis presided at the organ with his accustomed ,
*bmty. The Rev. B. Toung was the officiating clergy- ,
The Parramatta Races took place on Wednea- '
‘•ay last, and passed off jn first-class style. The attend- '
»«ce was larger than ever before chronicled. The com- 1
Paay was not in the least unpleasant, and Lord Augustus 1
Augustus Loftns, and suite were exceedingly ]
"table and kind to all those with whom they came in f
fla t- The luncheon was served in a large marquee (
V*]" 8 and Mr. Hugh Taylor, presi- 1
fn x t * le Club, acted as chairman, with Ladv Angus- 1
'‘ s Hoftus on his left and His Ex*ellency the Governor 1
srL v The lunch was a capital one, and the 1
niu 8 j S? short and to the purpose. The Governor
Paramatta the ” cradle of the Australian turf,”
1 5fbowed himself well up in the history of the old
, JJM- Mr, Lackey, the Minister for Works, also made
.JfOod spaech, and he was followed by Mr. F. B. Suttor. i
«r- Terry, Mr. P. arson, and others. {
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED
The public expenditure of Tasmania for 1880
was less than the revenue. This has not occurred for
many years. Buckley and party, Temora, have begun
thejnew year by getting two nuggets weighing 12ozs. and
42ozs. -It is said that a new public market is to be
established in Oxford-street, Sydney. Last year over
50,000 horses were used for food in France. Forty-
five million pounds of tinned salmon are annually
exported from Columbia. Moody and Sankey a
failure in ’Frisco. Milner Stephen was, last week, on
the ‘'marvellouslay” at Wagga. Biz mod. There is
a Chinese leper at Uralla He is fed daily by a police-
man. At Inverell. a burglar got into the Royal
Hotel, and took £9 odd. No clue yet to the robbers.
Rabbit pest rampant at Kerang (Vic ) An aboriginal
giant has been discovered in the Coen district, north of
Cooktown. He is eight feet high, and the imprints of
his feet are eighteen inches long. Telegraph office at
Nundle to be opened shortly. Mr. J. K. Doyle has
been elected president of the Tamworth C.C. Lady
Florence Dixie was attacked by a jaquer in South
America. She shot the snake, and captured cub. At
Gundagai, a woman named Mrs. Hood, on the eve of
her confinement, was poisoned, through the nurse
giving her, by mistake, for her medicine a lotion con-
taining aconite. Dr. Lynch, of Gundagai, has had a
severe fall from his horse. Recovering. Sergeant
Cassin of Wantabadgery fame, is laid up with gastric
fever An extensive bush fire occurred yesterday at
Rookwood, spreading over three miles, and destroying
much property. A sheep at Albury turned the scale
at 1461bs. New York city pays 4,000,000 dols. a year
(12,000 per day) for .the 40,000 million quarts of water
with which its annual supply of milk is diluted.
Three men—Vincent, Hoare, and Wilson—have taken
up a claim six miles east of the Muttama reef, near
Gundagai, and have struck gold. Others doing well
about 150 yards from Spring Creek. Bush fires are
raging in the neighbourhood of Tumut and Adelong.
The Frontage Lead, Temora, has collapsed. Mr.
S. H. Terry has introduced into the Assembly his No
Liability Act. The Cootamundra Orangeman, says
the Temora Herald, ascribes the late devasting
hurricane in England to Fenian influence with
the elements.—The half-caste who was stabbed at
Tass has since died. His assailant will be prosecuted
for manslaughter. The highest spring tides last
Monday. The colony of South Australia is suffering
from an excess of rain. The Intercolonial Conference
finished its deliberations on Thursday. The pro-
prietor of the Elmsdale Inn, Queenbeyan, fell down
dead on his verandah on Sunday. William Wilson, a
miner at Rockhampton, committed suicide by taking
laudanum. In the professional sculling race for the
champion belt, Pearce went away with the lead, being
never asked to pull A local butcher, Mr. P. Mac-
namara, has a sheep at Christchurch that weighed
1631bs. Last year's Government escort took from
Braidwood 4185ozs. 5dwts 4grs. £30 was collected at
Adelaide the other night at a meeting of sympathisers
with the Irish Land Leaguers, Melbourne telegraph
line was interrupted last Thursday. A jockey named
Finn was disqualified from riding for six months on the
race course by the Tenterfleld Race Club on Anniversary
Day. It is alleged he pulled his horse, Tartar, pur-
posely. Some Vienna firms took first prize for
meerschaum pipes at the Exhibition.
The Aramac Mail says it is reported that a discovery
of diamonds has been made in the direction ot Wills
Creek. The Tararua gold robbery still remains a
mystery. A fellow named John Stewart attempted
suicide by jumping off the lofty Victoria Bridge, Bris-
bane. Phillips, one of Leichhart’s companions in his
first expedition, is living in seclusion at the head of
Diamond Creek. A man has been speared by the
blacks while out horse-hunting near Normanton.
The schooner Lapwing has been floated off the Torrens
Island. A legacy of £1000 has been left by the Lord
Justice Thessiger to his chief clerk. Miss M’Lean,
eldest daughter of Mr. M’Lean, M.L.A., of Queensland,
was drowned a few days ago on her way from school.
It is thought likely that the proposed Exhibition, to
be held in America early in 1883, will be held in Pro-
spect Park, Brooklyn. A Mr. Ashdown, agent in
Shropshire for the Duke of Cleveland, received from an
unknown donor a saddle of mutton. The evidences of
strychnine enough to cause the death of fifty persons
were discovered in the joint. A party of Chinamen
at Lit* le Bendigo have found a sixty-ounce nugget.
A 12-ounce nugget was got on Monday at Temora in
ground to the east of Nugent and Adams, and a rush
has set in. Hudson’s claim, Copeland Reef, Temora,
has cut the reef at 96 feet level. The stone, when
crushed, showed splendid prospects. Cotton’s claim
expects to cut the adjoining reef soon. The reef
adjoins Hudson’s. The wreck of the stranded ship,
Hereford, brought £8,000. A man named Kubal
arrested in Edinburgh (S. A.) for murder of his daughter,
age 17. Catherine Gather, an elderly woman, died
suddenly at St. Leonards of paralysis. Henry Proot
struck dead by lightning in Hotham, Vic. Rutledge
elected for Queanboyan; Gale polled 60 votes ! Silver
Cloud schooner wrecked at Wellington. Coal dis-
covered at Narraooorte, S.A. The Irishmen at
Melbourne have held meeting in order to sympathise
with Pamellism. Judge Faucett left for Europe on
Thursday. Mrs. Borginis took a favorable turn on
Thursday.—Two men fatally injured at Williamstown
while loading: the Sorata. The gold exported from
New Zealand in 1880 amounted to 304,248ozs., valued at
£1,227,252, as compared with 287,464ozs., valued at
£1,148,108, in 1879. The total amount exported from
the colony to the end of 1880 is 9,5i>2,194ozs., valued at
£37,380,633. The New Zealand Insurance Company
has declared a dividend of 15 per cent, for the half year.
Wharepa, the Chatham Islands murderer, has had
bis sentence commuted to imprisonment for life.
& heavy storm, unroofing houses, blew over Tamworth
>n 23rd inst. The late storm in London left 3000
persons houseless, and destroyed two million pounds’
worth of property. Mr. Pope Cooper, Attorney-
Jeneral of Queensland (brother to the Messrs. Cooper,
if Willeroo) has been elected for Bowen unopposed.
3ost of the Boer rebellion —£10,000 per day. A
lephew of the Baroness Burdett-Coutts ekes out a
niserable existence in New Zealand. Salt water is to
se used on the Melbourne streets shortly for laying the
lust. Collaroy not afloat yet. John M'Millan was
sentenced to four weeks’ hard labour, on Saturday, for
stealing five bottles of beer from the ship Mandalay.
‘ Scarcity of water ’’ he said, induced him to commit
i theft. Mr. Charles Bright delivered a lecture, on
Sunday last, entitled “Archbishop Vaughan on ‘Rotten
Catholics’ and American Education.” There was a large
ittendance. Farm rents are cheap at Lismore.
Mr. Shaylor, a well-known publican at Parramatta, was
:hrown from his buggy, together with his wife and two
roung ladies, all of whom received injuries more or less
severe. At a Public School, not many miles from
Sydney, a boy was asked to spell “chimney.” Having
lone so correctly, the teacher told him to go up one.
A branch of the A.J.S. Bank was opened at
EJallina, last Wednesday. It is rumoured that
several ot the collieries in the Newcastle district will
shortly be closed owing to the low price of coal
k new line of steamers has been started to trade
between Hamburg and the colonies. The half-yearly
nesting of the A.S.N. Co was held on Monday after-
men. Report satisfactory. -Qipps has finished a
re rv elaborate reply to Moriarty re water schemes.
6400 was subscribed at Dubbo towards the expense of
he railway opening. A miner was robbed of £150 at
femora last week at an hotel while asleep. The
Sathnrst City Council’s overdraft has been stopi ed by
he bank. H M.S. Emerald has been making a noise
sround the islands. The Mayor has condemned a
lumber of dens occupied by Chinese in Castlereagh-
itreet. On some of the stations in the Aramac (Q.)
listrict men are engaged, day after day, extricating
logged cattle and horses. Mr. Patrick Doyle, town
ilerk and surveyor of Charters Towers (Q), has served
he mayor of that town with a writ for £1000 for
illeged breach of duty. The case is to be tried in
Srisbane. Mr. W. P. Morgan, solicitor at Charters
Powers, advertises in the Towers Herald as follows :
‘ Retainers will be received by the undersigned on and
Jter this date for the ensuing year, and will take pre-
ledenoe according to priority in payment of fee.”
lawies in Brisbane get 4s. a day, “tucker” them-
elves, find their own tools, and have wet weather
leducted. The Corporation complains that good men
ron’t work for them. We wonder, by the time the
forking man is reduced to the same rate of wages as a
lanaka, whether the labor most in demand will be
ilack or white.
Mr. Henry Deakin is certain to be returned for
Bnrwood. Municipal work wants a young and vigorous
hand in the suburbs.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Lingards left New Zealand for San Francisco.
We intend “ doing ” the Dubbo and Albury
railway openings next week
Mr. A. Kinghorne, wealthy resident of Gonl-
bum, killed by a fall from his horse.
They’ve started a Bulletin at Adelaide.
Don’t the Sydney people feel proud ?
We have a little story in two chapters : “ The
Retired Minister and the Coffee Palace Girl." Next
week.
Edward Farley will be the basso of the grand
vocal quartette that will sing at Miss Christian’s
concert.
The secret history of the Austrian Band in the
colonies would furnish materials fora dozen sensational
romances.
Mr. J. E. Salamons, barrister, arrived with his
family at Albany on Tuesday last, per mail-steamer
Peshawur.
Herr Wildner, the original conductor of the
Austrian Band, came to Sydney, but returned to
Melbourne.
The warmth of Miss Christian’s reception at
the Musical Union concert, after her long absence from
Sydney, was absolutely scorching.
It was after the new English tenor, Charles
Turner, made his debut in Melbourne that Beaumont
began to think it was time to retire.
Miss Christian’s concert in the Masonic Hall
next Tuesday will be a big event. Two of the artistes
she has engaged have never sung in Sydney before.
Annis Montague, the new soprano, who is to
make her first appearance at Miss Christian’s concert
next Tuesday, is a dashing lady, with very brilliant
eyes.
The Sydney music-seller, whom Lucy Escott
christened “ Shirt-fronts,” would not offend his lady
customers if he were less liberal in the display of Ms
shirt-sleeves.
Tastes differ. The French picture, “ Chloe,”
for selling which in Sydney a picture dealer was prose-
cuted, has been awarded first prize by the fine arts
prizes at the Melbourne International.
R. S. Smythe is said to have won ,£5OO by open-
ing the Austrian Band in Sydney ; the bet was £5OO to
£5O; and within halt an hour of the concert, owing to
the interference of the Austrian Consul, the “ most
travelled” was nearly let in.
It was The Bulletin that first suggested
the management of the Austrian Band should be offered
to Mr. R. S. Smythe. What a succession of disasters
would have been saved it our suggestion had been
adopted. But then, Smythe was with the champion
star-gazer when the band arrived.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ C.E.B. Cheque received, and paid over to
the charitable object mentioned in your note.
“ Valerie Acceptable; please continue. “ E.H.”:
We don’t care for the responsibility; besides we do not
think marriages affected in that way, if affected at all,
can be productive of happiness or benefit. It may be a
good joke, but its a serious thing; no sir; we’re not on.
“ J.R.V.”: Thanks; please continue. “Free
Lance ’’: You mistake us. Give us amusing items or
or kind jokes—nothing spiteful. Besides we don’t see
why the privacy of families should be intruded upon ;
reform, good fellow, do. “C.E.” writes: Respecting
the Thames records, the following is correct: —G.
Tarryer’s time 22 min. 55 sec. (Aug. 13th. 1877) was not
over the whole of the Championship Course, as he
started from the Putney Aquedect. The Championship
Course is from the Star and Garter, Putney, to the ship
at Mortlake. Higgins’ time over the whole of the
course, (June 20th 1876) 21 min. 2sccs,, is the best on
record. “ H.G.D. ” : Thanks — next issue.
“ P.M.G. ” : Please continue. “ W.H.C. " : Not
quite suitable; write again. “ E. M‘C The right
ring ; do continue. “ J. T." and other correspon-
dents: Next issue. “A.E.L.In his match with
Blackman, Laycock rowed in a boat owned by Trickett,
and built by Jewitt, of Dunstan.
A Photographic Catastrophe.
On Anniversary Day last, as a large number of Young
Christian Brethren (and sisters) were proceeding on
their way fo view the Batteries at Middle Head, they
were suddenly stopped on the road by some artillery-
men calling from the verandah of the Barracks, “ Still,
one moment, please ;’’ and a deadly camera was
levelled at them. As if with one idea, the crowd
stopped, and were posing themselves in various loving
attidudes (particularly several old and fat sisters, who
came well to the front), when — horresco refe yen h ! — a Ser-
geant, well known in military circles, rushed out, and,
collaring the offenders, sung out to the Christian Asso-
ciation assembled on the road," It’s —it’s an imposition!”
—at the same time uncovering the instrument of tor-
ture, and disclosing, not a camera, bat a rug. a
carpet-bag (containing cucumbers, onioas, and other
vegetables), and the hose of a fire-engine—the whole
mounted on a tripod. The crowd dispersed with
laughter. What has become of the perpetrators of this
atrocity is a secret, hut it is whispered that they are in
an advanced class for aesthetic education breaking
stones.
BRIEF MENTION.
“No thrughfare” —at the Botanical Gardens
r y entrance.
A Balmain musician has been two years striving
i to learn to play “ Home, sweet Home” ou the flute.
He has sent more than one distracted fellow already to
his home—but it’s on a distant shore.
0- A certain gentleman occupying a high position
in the Civil service has changed his office from the
he Supreme Court to the rear of a certain well-known
ixt house not a hundred miles from the Captain Cook
Hotel. M’Elhone is gathering the particulars.
ad The mother of the girl who married the eldest
i’s son of a late M.L.C. of another colony was congratu-
lated on her daughter’s marriage with such a rich man.
She replied, “ If he has money, we have position.”
lal The Camden Times says that the Camden people
are ill. It attributes their indisposition to fruit. Can
is k®’ now —and we ask the question with bated breath
er —can the Camden Times have disagreed with him ?
Two bailiffs got mixed up with the type of a city
10 paper last week, and yet when tike paper came out it
to never mentioned the fact. It is difficult to be fanny
sometimes—when the joke is against one, especially.
it George Alfred is wrong. Mr. G. A. Llovd, in
m the debate on the Mining Companies Bill, averred that
“newspapers were sometimes nor read at all.” How
could George say this P We’ve read all about him long
5S ago.
it East Maitland wants a clock, and would like its
member to get that article for the townpeople. If Mr.
11 Brunker promises to do so, the borough will have the
is clock, for Mr. B. is one who can be dependulnmed
upon.
;o Queen Victoria has over thirty tons of gold and
silver plate. And yet she won’t ante-np to poor Bertie,
it This treasure is in charge of John Brown, whose fondness
for Her Majesty, it will be at once seen is quite plate-
tonic.
v “ Ev’ry ’ffect has its cause,” hiccupped an
g inebriated disciple of freethought in reply to Constable
McLafkey’s enquiries as to how he came in the gutter.
,, “ Pl’ad guilty, thin, an’ maybe ye’ll get off with a
caution,” was that worthy officer’s advice on the way
3- t© the watch-house.
b A New York paper says : —“ It is claimed by
the English papers that the Thompson brothers, the
1- famous book-makers of Woolloomooloo, Melbourne,
° lost £30.000 on Trioket’s defeat. The Canadians must
o have made a fortune.”
A certain ambitious member of the Petersham
Council is very anxious to get the new aspirant for
d Anuandale Ward returned. He thinks one sure vote
d would materially help to wheeler man into the chair,
s This pun is not Lewis's.
“ The Penny Morning Rum said that Harkles
Daly was drowned off the Collaroy. When it was dis-
covered next day that the name was Hercules Dalziel, all
■ the comps, were told to circulate a report that there
had been an " accident to the machinery.”
There’ll be another bloody encounter at Temora
if they don’t look out. The Herald save, “ Harry
Pollock wants to interview the ‘ Wizzle Wozzle.’ He
3 don't mind paying £3 for interview!” A continuation
- of this kind of thing is undoubtedly wehring.
The Christian Weekly remarks: — “ The
Christian man has nothing to hide, he desires to be
[ transparent." Our brother is right: most of the
Christian men about town are very transparent. Most
, of them, we admit, however, are on the Press.
She was an Adelong girl, and was at Coota-
s mundra. “Is there any refinement in your town?”
; said a soft youth, in softer accents. “ You. bet
’ your boots,” was the academical response. She knew,
of coarse, the young fellow had nothing else to bet.
; The Tamworth News says “ No Sydney
J Letter for this issue has yet reached us. We hear our
, gifted contributor is ill; indeed, as we sorrowfully pen
, these lines he may be ‘ on the bier! ’ In the midst of
] life, Tooth-ache may prostrate us, and drive us to spirit-
land ! U-u-mps 1 ”
; The American papers have still got hold of the
idea that Jem Mace, the pugilist, is a member of the
Victorian Assembly. We corrected this statement once
before. It is but fair to Mr. Mace and his reputation
that this correction should again be made. [Home
papers please copy.]
The Hodgkinson Independent begins the
new year with a leader stating : “ The New Year has
dawned upon us and the prospects of peace in Europe
is not assuring.” The grammatical eloquence is
spreading to the Far North. The Evening Shock has
truly much to answer for.
It must be worse than wormwood for the great
Gale, after writing in his own paper that “at all Mr.
Gale’s meetings he was well received, and his chances
of return are very hopeful,” to lose bis £40 deposit.
The chances of Mr. G.’s return, and that of his £40,
were all through equally probable.
The other day a policeman at the Central took
five minutes tp sign his name to his deposition sheet.
The recording clerk’s language during the caligraphic
process is nnreportable. During the period occupied by
the signing, Mr. Castle stated that hejhad defended and
got two persons committed for trial.
During Mr. Gale’s address on nomination day,
at Queanbeyan, whilst that gentleman was treating the
electors to his views upon various subjects, one of them
cried—“ Dry up! We want to get our dinner.” Ou
which Mr. Gale intimated that he hoped the unruly
person would get his deserts —speaking, of course, in a
jupurative manner.
As a young girl named Adcle was standing before
a shop in Berlin, a woman carrying a baby came up to
her. She asked the girl to hold the baby until she came
out of the shop. The girl waited nearly half an hour
for the woman, but she did not return. Adele now finds
herself, poor thing! in an embarrassing predicament—
a i ingle girl with a baby.
In the Protestant Potterer M'Guven says,
in reference to St. Mary’s Art Union: —“ We have
secured one of the tickets without buying it." Now,
what a funny thing it would be if the worthy doctor
got the first prize. Now, if he did, which would he
take—the £500 or the picture. It would indeed be a
fearful struggle in a holy breast.
At the house of a portly ex-mayor, not 100 miles
from Woolloomooloo, it is the fashion to give a large party
on Friday night, when all the great connexion are invited
—aad to ask all the minor ones to the Saturday after-
noon and evening to finish the remains of the supper,
and to keep up a most horrible noise until long after
Sunday has come upon the scene.
Mr. Milner Stephen recently effected, in
Ballarat, a wonderful cure of deafness. “ Speak to
me,” said Milner, after blowing a hurricane in his ear,
and the boy spoke. On this Milner announced the
marvellous cure to the audience. When, however, the
mother whispered to Sydney’s sole healer that the
youngster was blind, and not dumb at all, they were
given a quart of magnetised water, and shnSied out the
back way.
We are always glad to afford entertainment
to the public, and we are pleased when our contempo-
raries enliven their columns byre-printing our jokes.
In this case, it is always advisable for newspapers to
acknowledge the source from whence our pars, is
obtained. Otherwise, the effect of our style, side, by
side with their local pars, is incongruous. The Ade-
laide L.V. Gazette might inwardly digest this.
The morality of Sydney may be judged from the
following extract from the Benevolent Asylum’s annual
report for 1880: —“ From the statistics of the hospital
during the past year, it will be found that 233 women
were accouched, and that of these, three died. The
nationality of the women were as follows: 35 were
natives of England, 39 Ireland, 6 Scotland, 132 New
South Wales, 8 Victoria, 6 Queensland, 4 Tasmania, and
3 other countries. And your directors regret to state
that of the women accouched 182 were unmarried, and
51 only were married women.” We only desire to
point out that the Australian native-born are only equal
to the immigrants, yet their immorality is as three to
one. Our observation is brief, and confined to one
word —“ Picnics.”
Milner Stephen advertises a cure of blindness in
the person of one Susan M’Yie, and published her
testimonial, which is addressed “ 19 Blight-street” (see
'Woman’s Tongue.—Another Wag.
(Specially for The Bulletin.)
A.F., I ween, has never been
True women much among,
Or in that way he’d never say
Such things of woman’s tongue.
But since this youth perverts the truth.
And libels all he can,
I tdink I must endeavour just
To say a word on MAN.
Over-bearing, smoking, swearing.
Lounging up the street.
Each girl nearing starts him leering.
Full of self-conceit —
Manners mulish, chatter foolish,
Brain as soft as bran.
Dunce at thinking, fish at drinking,
Noble creature, MAN!
Among his friends his time he spends
In true Australian ‘‘blow;”
What lies he tells! how all the belles
“ Are gone on me, you know!”
He “spoons” with Tilly, “mashes” Milly,
“ Kills ” Jemima Ann ;
Then off he walks, and glibly talks
“ How girls do dote on MAN !”
The feats he’ll do with billiard cue
Are marvellous indeed;
And when afloat, he’ll row a boat
With quite amazing speed.
Give him his fling, there’s not a thing—
In all Creation’s plan—
So full of pride, self-satisfied.
And bumptious, as a MAN !
A muscled arm’s not woman’s charm,
She cannot smoke, or fight;
But in her grace a power we trace.
In weakness lies her might.
Fie, then ! for shame! her voice to blame.
Or put it under ban —
That voice beguiled you as a child,
Then love it stijl, as MAN.
Dear woman’s voice makes earth rejoice—
’Tis aye the same sweet song;
Her witching eyes, too, vocalize
The words from woman’s tongue.
That voice has given us thoughts of Heaven
Since e’er the world began;
Then let a word be never heard
Against it—from a MAN!
E. McC.
Redfern.


—Ed. B.]
It is rumoured that an incoming Orient steamer
brings ai a portion of its cargo a novel expanding bag
of enormous dimensions. It is invoiced to Mr. J. G.
and is to hold his briefs.
“Mary Apple was roasted alive at Wilcannia
on Sunday through her clothes catching fire.”—
“ Requiescat in pace! ” —We
Consider this a mournful text;
But better roasted Apple be
In this world than in the next.
[To be informed, we really beg.
Was this writ by Doctor ?
—Ed. B.]
It was a remarkable fact that at the Mayor’s
picnic only half the aldermen attended. The half that
didn’t attend had pressing engagements, we under-
stand, elsewhere. We don’t know where, but, anyway,
they couldn’t find time to patronize the Coonanbara.
It was, to a certain extent, a disappointment that they
were not at the picnic—a disappointment to many of
their friends who attended. However, it ’’s not the first
time a “ sell ” has emanated from a “ cellar.”
Thus Henry Kendall on Edward Trickett: —
“ My hero was petted, and feasted, and made
To forget his old life with pick and the spade—
His pockets with coin were distended !—
Alas I for the day when an oysterman “floored”
This hero of mine at propelling a board !
Our name as a Nation is ended !”
This, as Mr. Brass would say, “is forcible, sir;
forcible —but pleasant." Very pleasant for but
no matter.
At Messrs. Hardie and Gorman's last land sale,
Mr. H. displayed a considerable amount of Hardie-hood
in jocularly stating that the North Shore Bridge was
“ almost an accomplished fact.” Mr. H. stated that he
happened to be “in the confidence of the Government
(vociferous applause), and that he need say no more
but that the North Shore Bridge was, to all intents
and purposes, an accomplished fact.” (Deafening
cheers.) No one enquired “the why and the where-
fore,” but everybody appeared perfectly satisfied. Et
none an«si.
Sam Weller’s advice to his father to “ pizen”
Stiggins’s rum and water would have some significance
now at Yass!
On Sunday last, at Tam worth, “ on the tick of
noon,” the fire-bell started. All the clergymen dined
early that day.
The last issue of the Macleat Herald is a
journalistic phenomenon. It contains one original par.
Is this Deasent ?
In London, on Guy Fawkes’ Day, an effigy of
Ned Kelly was paraded around the streets. The gamins
were under the impression he was a legislator. His
deeds live after him.
Spelling must be at a discount up North. The
Rockhampton Argus has in one issue a par. commencing
“ Auctioneer’s Lisences,” and in another an article
entitled “Cranages.”
The Bathurst Debating Society is wrestling with
the question, “Can a community exist without women ?”
We think it might for a little while, but it wouldn’t
know what was going on.
The Holt Yell gives, this week, the following
useful household hint: —“ Flour should always be kept
• in a sweet, dry, cool, and airy room.” Can this be
from an American paper P
It is said that the P.M. of a New England dis-
trict is an economical man; he does all his own plane
and chisel work. Be it said, he made a form on Anni-
versary Day, while foolish people squandered a “ bob"
to see the races.
A Brisbane spiritualist has been informed by
“ spirits ” that Leichhardt was devoured by a shark in
the Gulf of Carpentaria. This information has been
received direct from Leichhardt. The spirits have
their own reward.
It is said that the income of Dr. Beaney, of
Melbourne, amounts to nearly £15,000 a year. And yet
there is nothing miraculous about him but his diamonds.
Of course, we don’t like pasting the doctor; we merely
make the remark.
The attraction at St. James’s Church, on the
evening of Sunday last, was a young woman in a pink and
yellow costume, the exact copy of a paper pattern
exhibited in a costumier’s window in King-street.
After the first stare, the congregation settled down, as
the wearer was of the domestic type—so the effect did
not come off with 6cldl. The curate, for a wonder, didn’t
speak upon dress and frivolity ; probably he had not the
tact to take in the living illustration before him. Moral:
Girls shouldn’t dress in glaring colours, unless they are
good-looking.
Adelaide Punch is a comic paper. But yet, at
times, it is loftily severe. Of Cole’s circus it remarks :
“ Cole’s circus is a little bigger than ordinary, but in
other respects is neither much better nor much worse
than those that preceded it. As usual with circuses,
the best part of the show is the show-bills. The electric
light is a nuisance, and is not as good as gas ; it glares
the eyes, and throws too deep shadows.” Now, this is
very severe—exceedingly so—and would be quite
crushing but for one circumstance. We do not see
Cole’s advertisement in the paper.
The leader-writers on the London Times get
from £1200 to £1500 a year ; the editor £2000, and the
manager £5000 a year. And there he stops. It 8
wonderful how egotistical those Loudon people are.
There is not a word about the salary of the Mudgee
Independent tailor, and not a line is inserted which
might enlighten us as to the number of mil.ions drawn
annually by “ The Rambler” in the Distress. Nothing
about the colossal future A. B. Rae is piling up out of
the profits of his rag either. _ It’s really too bad of the
Tikes to neglect all these eminent men.
Says Father Burke, in the Freeman : —
“ This land of ours was famous once, no land was
more—
For saintliness, so pure, so bright, as well as learned
tore;
And strangers from a sunny clime were wafted to our
shore.
In bearing meek and quaintest garb as ne er was seen
before.”
[This verse, dear rev’rent father, is now just the least—
a bore.— Ed. B.j
“ Miss Emma Thursby recently sang the * Star
Spangled Banner,’ before King William and members of
the Eoyal household of Germany, to whom it was es-
pecially pleasing.” The man who sent us this is not
quite sure whether the day she sang it was a Thursby or
mot. In these matters we like to be Patti-cular. Guad-
a-nini the fellow must be who sent this in!
When Berry, Gaunson, and Yale were coming
overland to the Conference, the Palace car caterer was
on the qui vive as to procuring delicacies, and when he
heard a boy had shot two swans he wished to procure
them for the ministerial gullet. The lad not being of a
mercenary turn of mind, readily presented one of the
birds, declining payment. The caterer thought a brace
would look better on the table, and pleaded hard for
the other, mentioning by way of special inducement
that it was wanted for the Premier of Victoria. Un-
fortunately this statement had an entirely different
effect to that anticipated. Snatching back the first
bird, the lad made off, remarking in tones of consider-
able indignation that he was not going to provide game
for “ Berry and his crowd.”
The Qaeanbeyan election has turned out a
screaming jobble. The blowing gale of the Queanbeyan
Age has come off third best and has —this is the cream
of the pleasantry—forfeited his deposit. On nomina-
tion day the festive old bluster —gale we should say—
couldn’t get any one to second his nomination—not-
withstanding that he shrieked for one to the crowd
below. In the report in the Age we have the following
delirious side-splittersMr. Hodgkinson, whose
appearance was greeted with cheers and opposition,
then addressed the electors.” Then: “ Mr. Eutledge,
who was received with mingled expressions of appro-
bation and disapprobation. * * * •” And finally:
“ Mr. Gale followed. On rising he was received with
respectful silence." The state of the poll was—Thomas
Eutledge, 536; Percy C. Hodgkinson, 425; John Chile,
66. A calm now prevails.
We have received the first number of the Ebd-
fern Times, a journal which we should consider to be
of enthralling interest to the Eedfernites. We are also
enthusiastic admirers of the paper, only we should
prefer to see the advts. a little less jumbled np with the
reading matter. Somebody’s advt. is slap in the middle
of a “thumper” on the budget, and “Electioneering
Gossip” is overweighted by the announcement and
block of a sixteen-shilling pant man. We are pleased
—being always piously inclined to notice three columns
of a sermon by Spurgeon, and also a column and-a-half
of a leader, in which the Redfebn Times makes its
bow to the public. On the whole we are pleased with
the E. T. We do not go as far as to say that it was a
paper that civilization wanted for; but any way, so
long as Eedfern shrieks for it, we shall always be
unhappy until we have devoured it. And yet there are
venal wight s who say that we are not good-natured.
At the old-fashioned village of Canterbury things
were in a pretty lively condition on Anniversary Day.
The annual melee on the race course came off with
unusual eclat, and just to give a little variety to the
proceedings, two or three races were run. The fighting,
however, was the principal attraction; and as there was
a strong muster of rival “talent" from various loca-
lities, the “ milling ” was of a highly interesting cha-
racter. The forenoon was consumed in desultory
skirmishes, relieved at intervals by short armistices to
allow of on masse adjournments to the drinking booths—
but at about two o’clock the engagements became
general, and for the rest of the evening wherever a head
appeared it was hit. A member of the Young Men’s
Christian Association strayed on to the “ course,” and
afterwards, while the chemist was artistically decorat-
ing him with patches of sticking-plaster, he said he
thought he saw a disturbance, and went to see what it
was about, when suddenly he felt a sensation as if half-
a-dozen steam pile-drivers had commenced to operate
upon his head. The Herald’s reporter, who was sent
to “ do ” the affair, crept into a hollow log; and when a
search party from the office went out the next morning
and discovered him, he gave np all for lost until the
familiar voices of friends reassured him, and after being
told that there was a detachment of the permanent
force present to protect him, he cautiously emerged
from his hiding place. He says that Samuel’s blandest
smile will not induce him to go there again, as he would
rather lose his billet than his life. This pleasant an-
nual reunion is curiously termed the “ Canterbury
Races.”
Maitland is suffering a recovery, for barrel organs,
and organ grinders are returning from the Melbourne
Exhibition.
There was a “ leader ” in last week’s Rubie on
“ Serpents’ Teeth.” As might be expected, there was
venom in it.
We are in a position to deny the report that
after the first piece the Austrian Band was much
distraussed.
On the decision in reference to the sweepstakes
being given in the case of the landlord of the Palace
Hotel, South Tarra, the defendant uttered a loud
Gough-faw.
Greville’s cable says: “ The steamer Protos has
arrived from Melbourne with her fresh meat and butter
in splendid order.” Renter's says: “ Butter doubtful.”
Which is it ?
Pretty Piety—The lady of Phillip-street who
goes to St. James’s with white shoes and rosettes and
short drees. “ A divinity shapes onr ends” —sometimes
making big feet.
People should be on their guard against those
two blind men in George-street. They are both very
wealthy. One has a bank at his back, and the other
owns all he sees.
An evening contemporary (which will eventually
be the death of usj states that the glass on Saturday
registered 745 in the shade." The journal in question is
now quite an authority on meteorology and “lemon
squash.”
It is said that over =210,000 worth of free passes
were granted for the Victorian railway last year. Here’s
a chance for our own political scavenger to emigrate t o
Melbourne and “ reform it altogether.” We could
spare him.
Anniversary Day was celebrated at Tamworth
only by the Foresters’ sports. All the other people
went on private picnics. The country all around now is
beautified by lace ribbons and indiscriminate articles
innumerable.
Saturday’s Lyre) from poor Milner! The Fates con-
spire to worry that man.
Play fair now, Butcher.
Dog Latin. —“ Ad Eundem.”
An I-Deal boatman. —Laycock.
There is more rum than water at Temora.
A modern mystery —The Sydney sausages.
Is the fire inquiry suggestive of Becher de Mer ?
They have a very Goode paper at Campbelltown.
Some of the City Fathers are on the “key”
inv« !
In China, brass is money. That’s the place for
Abigail.
Half-and-half at the Mayor’s picnic—Davies
and Beare.
The police say that the travelling coffee palace
is a “ stall.”
A new Somnorific —The summing up of the act-
ing Coroner.
He sees double, that literary man. It’s the
glasses, of course.
The man who runs the Camden Times carries
an unloaded pistol.
The Mercantile Moonlight Excursion Company
(limited) is defunct.
Lost, at Pern Bay, on the 26th inst., a number
of good resolutions.
It is not the brass band but the hus-band that
the girls want to see.
Bailey calls the opposition paper the Coota-
mundra Orangeman.
Those houses near Eveleigh are nott under
water. They’re over it.
These Austrians are banded together, and they
blow their own trumpets.
There has been a gale at Tamworth. The Gale
at Queanbeyan has subsided.
Pastor Allen writes the sporting gossip of the
Threepenny Sunderland.
Awful difficulties. —Corn’ beef at the Town Hall.
Everything for the butchers !
The R. C. School at Queenbeyan is presided
•ver by a birch —Father Birch.
A well-known sporting bank clerk always signs
A.S.S., in the Randwick sweeps.
They say at Campbelltown that Mount Gilead
Estate is a Goode idea of a farm.
The Melbourne Herald clips a column of |
our pars, and acknowledges them.
The Auckland Star has discovered that even
a dark lantern has its bright side.
It is stated that in an unreported argument
Berry knocked spots out of Sirenree.
There is a certain elderly lady who can’t stand
ridicule —although she always carries one.
Mr. R. J. O’Rourke, in the Freeman, puts
John before his name and M. R.I.A. after it.
Extremes ! Winter and Summer. H , J.P.,
and his pretty neices—delight ful creatures !
The “ monster shark ” has again made its ap-
pearance in the columns of the Evening Hiccup,
At Murrurnndi, the subscribers to the School of
Arts refused to make Mrs. Meymot a life-member.
A Manly boniface bought a hoise, rode him one
day, and sold him the next —to save funeral expenses.
They put cobblers’ wax on Mr. Vardy’s chair at
the Water Police Court, and Mr. V. acoordingly became
axy.
A married gentleman sadly writes us that there
is no necessity to go to China in order to catch a
Tartar.
A certain municipal gentleman didn’t get much
the best of it when, the other day, he got foul of
Fowler.
Art pales before Nature. It is the girls who
are the attraction of the picture gallery at the Garden
alace.
In Melbourne .£17,000 were spent on Christmas
cards last December. This fact should be fuller interest
to Fuller.
“ Let sleeping dogs lie” is a saying which,
though not very elegant, applies well to the state of
affairs at Camden.
For the life of us, we can’t see why the religious
temperance prints object to the poor working man
consulting Bishop Barker.
With a sigh the Evening Reel exclaimed, “ No
more mayoral luncheons.” Someone apparently misses
the quarterly ‘‘square meal.”
They’re going wild in America over a boy born
with a donkey’s head. Now look at our Parliament,
What’s there to go wild about.
French physicians have fonni brandy to be an
antidote to drunkenness from beer. This will he grand
news to the temperance people.
Motto for the Queanbeyan Gale : —
“ I’ve suffered many a breeze before,
But never such a blow.”
The Brisbane Daily Observer brings out the
news of the Chilian am, Peruvian engagements under
the heading “ The Brazilian War.”
Justices are not punctual in Melbourne. In
Sydney they are punctual—and unanimous, too, some-
times— especially on licensing days.
The Hon. John “ would” insist, at the School
of Arts annual meeting, that he “had been in the
country.” Hope he had not been in tbe sun.
One of the candidates in the Leichhardt Muni-
cipal election is the proprietor of the sole surviving
boiling-down establishment. This is not Wnght.
Who’s MacNevin ? Edward Reeve threatens
expulsion if we don’t tip onr threepenny to the Mac-
Nevin Testimonial by the 15th of February. Nobody
cares!
Gambetta’s parents reside at Nice. They used
to keep a grocer’s shop. Yet, strange to say, now that
they have given that up they are better off for “ sugar ”
than ever they were before.
A man named Trout was robbed of .£156 in
Temora and Bailey says : “ The moral tone of Lower
Temora since Trout lost his £156 is improving." Well,
there was room for it, anyhow.
“You will not only have to perform accoun-
tant duties,” said the editor and proprietor of the
Penny Stagger, “ but you will also have to take the
post of Dramatical Cricketer.”
We thought so! Wednesday’s Telegraph
sa y g . «« The” Madgee Quarter Sessions commence on
Friday with a heavy calendar.” Why mil the Mudgeb
Independent publish an almanac ?
“The proprietors of an evening contemporary
now scorn the word “ houses.” “ Mansions is their
dart. We expect to hear of a park soon, with aw, a
herd of deer grazing by the rivah.”
The young lady residing not many miles from
either Menangle or Camden, and whose weakness, it she
had one at all, was a Vanity Fair cigarette, has re-
formed, and —opened a Sunday-school.
Westwood was lecturing up North, and to was
introduced by the chairman in these words‘‘He is
an eloquent good man, and is full of his subject.
Westwood’s lecture was “ The Devil.”
There is a groan heard in the Freeman office
•very Monday morning. This is on the arrival in a
wagon of the copy for the week’s instalment of “ Gold-
fields’ Recollections, by One of the Joneses.”
“ Our liberties,” said M'Elhone,
« Must be to ns, in life, so dear;
And yet that Graham came and tried
To rob the ‘ pore’ man of his Beare."
A Windsor beauty of sev uty summers adopts
the fashions of sweet seventeen, and is one of the most
irrepressible flirts ot the old township. Somebody’ll
be running away with her —probably an undertaker.
HERE IS THE MAYOR!
G. G. sends us the following acrostic: —
My first is an animal oft known to gore.
Also a blunder and Papal decree;
My second begins and ends an encore,
And last a metal found far from the shore.
My whole conveys news, short, pithy, concise—
Supports all goodness, and sits on all vice.
The editor of The Bulletin, with a smile, gives the
following reply:—
Can’t you see it ? —Of rhyme the writer is full,
The first —why of course —don’t yon drop ?—is ahull;
The second, you dear smiling ladies must see.
Is what you all dearly admire—a h(e) :
The third is what you don’t consider a sin, ' s
To spend—ab, you take us sans doufe—just the “ tin”;
The whole is what makes you all pleasantly grin.
The joy of yonr Thursdays—onr own Bulletin.
The Mayor's Picnic.
When Harris took the civic chair.
He proudly waved the Templars’ pennant’
And loudly cried that worthy mayor—
“ I’ll have John Davies for lieutenant!
Of invite lists he’ll be a skimmer.
To trim the ship I want a trimmer.
“ So he shall be the Mayor, and I
Will trust all to this rara avis; —
Will trust —and here he heaved a sigh
Ah, who’s not trusted great John Davies ?
Still, John—it is a true admission—
Has a soap-perior position!
“ I’ve watched him many a year, and can
Most honestly his praises utter.
There never was a living man
Who better could lay on the * butter.’
Now Dan’s not bad at being cwil—
But Davies — he’s the very devil!”
So John wrote out the picnic list—
Wrote it in his peculiar manner.
His style of writing, if you list,
We’ll call the “ pot-hook and the hanger.”
The list be to the town clerk sends —
And invites all the “ dearest friends.”
The “ Conference” with Sirenree,
And “ Honest Jack” were all invited.
His worship chuckled loud with glee.
And Davies, why he was delighted.
To him the black coat skirt of Yale
Was of his life the fairy-tail.
Delicious Dan, the eloquent,
Beamed on the deck—a swt et sight that was.
And watching him where’er he went.
Short-bodied but long-headed Pat was; —
Pat —if what they say is true.
Is Pat and Dan O’Connor too.
Some citv-fathers did appear,
With Hordern, that Town Hall inquisitor;
They also brought with them their Beare,
And “ 6e-orge,” the little-great solicitor.
Wise George, who is (’tis but a joke)
A very Little-ton of Coke.
And members of the Press were there.
Reporters young, and many a hoary-’un.
In smart light suits and linen fair;
And Alfred, too, the great historian —
Proud as an Andalusian jennet
Was Alf. the great— that's Alfred Bennett.
The little pitch made by the Mayor,
To him was really quite embarrassing;
His henchman was not near the chair.
And so, to Harris, it was harris-ing.
’Twas sad, his Worship’s only aid
To eloquence was—lemon-ade
The Coonanbara has returned;
All but the tico Mayors have departed ;
When Davies, as they did adjourn.
This, condescendingly, imparted;
“ The thing ain’t really gene so bad.
So keep your eye on me, John, lad.”


The Referee.
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
A “plunger” lost .£1100 on the late Auckland
races.
Strathearn won a race at last, and then it was a
dead heat.
There were no comers to the All-comers Double-
scull Eace.
The Campbelltown Turf Club is now an estab-
lished fact.
The Victorian Eleven start for Sydney on the
9th instant.
The Australian Eleven beat the Timaru team in
one innings, by 100 runs.
Horses with the best strains of English blood
are being largely imported to America
The American trotting horse, St. Julien, won
stakes last season to the value of £5600.
The Orange Club defeated the Wellington Club
on Anniversary Day at Orange by 8 wickets.
The Carltons are anxious to know who will be
the Umpire for the Surrey Uniteds on Saturday.
Joe Winrow, the English pugilist, did not come
up to time in ’Frisco—the battle of life. JEtat 66.
Nominations for the Sydney Cup and the
Hawkesbury Autumn Handicap closed on Tuesday.
Alderman Playfair’s trophy was gallantly won
by the M.E.C. boat. It has to be won again, though.
The Edith and Secret ran a neck and neck race
for thirty miles for the Portland (Vic.) yachting prize.
There was immense excitement in Auckland over
the Melbourne Yacht Eace, in which the Taniwha com-
peted.
The three brothers Clarke, our best amateur
oarsmen, will row in the next Intercolonial eight-oar
event.
What was the crew of the Circe doing when the
start took place for the race for boats of 20 feet and
upwards ?
The boats rowed in by Trickett and Hanlan
were both built of Spanish cedar. The makers, how-
ever, were different.
The cricket match on Anniversary Bay between
Yass and Goulbum was won easily by the former, with
nine wickets to spare.
The British sailor is not any man’s equal. The
French boats rowed first, second, and third, in the race
for men-of-war barges.
A match was played at Glen Innes between
Inverell and the local club, resulting in a victory for the
latter in one innings by 36 runs.
A cricket match was played on Anniversary Day
at Quirindi, between Tamworth and the local club.
Tamworth won by four wickets.
The Sydney racehorse Maori (late Auckland) is
being prepared for a race meeting to be held at Dar-
gaville, in the province of Auckland.
The American two-year old, Crickmore, has
been sold for £3000 to run in England. His best times
are —I mile 1.17), and 5 furlongs 1.05.
An Auckland journal wants to know why two
bookmakers, known to be Australian defaulters, were
admitted to TattersalTs during the last meeting.
There is every probability of a South Australian
erew taking part in the next Intercolonial Eight-oar
Eace, to be rowed on the Parramatta Eiver, on the 9th
April.
A footrace is coming off next Saturday on the
One-mile Cricket Ground, Bathurst, at 5 o’clock, p.m.,
between W. Greenwood and J. O’Brien. Distance, 400
yards.
Mr. Brett should have started for the Laidley
sculls. There never has yet been a good race for this
prize, which fact cannot be very gratifying to the
donor.
Captain Cargill, of the Australia, will leave us
laden with the good wishes of the public, and the
presents of gratefully appreciative Eegatta Com-
mittees. •
Tom Allen, according to unaccepted challenges,
is the champion pugilist of England. The Trojan
Giant, Eyan, of America, challenges him to a bit of fun
for £400.
Mr. W. Walter’s two - year - old Tattendon-
Peeress colt will compete in the Champagne Stakes, at
the coming Dunedin meeting. This colt was dropped
in Sydney.
Myers, the champion amateur runner of the
world, can beat the best time on record for 440 yards
any time he desires to do so. Myers has run a quarter
of a mile in 49|s.
Geary missed a catch on Monday afternoon, in
a match played by the Telegraph employes. He had
just been stating that he had not missed a catch for the
past two seasons.
The New Zealand Grand National Steeplechase
takes place at Timaru on 24th May. Here is a chance
for 0’ir cross-country horses to try conclusions with
that hot ’nn, The Agent.
An American paper says Jem Mace, the pugilist,
now in Melbourne, is worth £12,000, and it is asserted
he contnbutes liberally to the support of a son who is
a Sunday-school teacher.
The bay horse Maximilian, 5 years, by Macaroni,
out of Duchess, who sold as a yearling for £4000, brought
as a five-year-old at the Duke of Westminster’s late sale
of horses in training £400.
Professor Miller and Mr. D’Harcourt have
leased the Unitarian Hall, Liverpool-street, for their
proposed gymnasium, which it is expected will be open
about the second week in February.
TheN.Z. sporting writer, “ Mazeppa,”'says : —
“ Up to the present date (Jan. 8), Foul Play has started
in 48 races, and has finished first 17 times, second 12
times, third 7 times, and unplaced 7 times.
Merlin and Libeller won the two principal events
at the Hawke’s Bay Eacing Club meeting, which took
place on the 19th and 20th January. The former horse
won the Cup, and the latter the Handicap.
After the conclusion of the match on Saturday
on the Association Ground, the Intercolonial candidates
had a little practice. The batting was very fine, Charles
Bannerman showing wonderful improvement.
An idea! On Nov. 15 all London looked on
while a Canadian beat an Australian for the champion-
ship of England, over a course which once knew such
champions as Chambers and Kelly and Eenforth.
* The results of Anniversary Day’s racing at
Armidale are as follows :—Selling Stakes, Small Hopes;
New England Cup, Barber; Eailway Handicap, Jupiter;
Consolation Stakes, Bulgaria; Forced Handicap, Young
Australia.
Mr. W. Long purchased at the St. Alban’s year-
lings Sale, a bay filly, by King of the Eing, out of
Mundora, for 240 guineas. Mr. A. K. Finlay purchased
for 210 guineas a filly by King of the Eing, out of Maid-
of-all-Work.
A sculling race in watermen’s boats took place
on Saturday afternoon, over the champion course on
the Parramatta Eiver, between P. Connolly and W.
Clarke, for £25 a-side, and resulted in an easy victory
for Connolly.
A New York paper has the following:—“If
Charles Courtney, of Union Springs, had Elias C. Lay-
cock’s, the Australian oarsman’s nerve inside his vest,
the champion of the world would have lived in New
York since 1876.”
Races took place at Cambridge (Waikato), in
the province of Auckland, lately. The Cup was won by
the Australian horse. King Quail, Tatana second, and
Lone Hand third ; Foul Play, who carried 9st. 121bs.,
was unplaced. The Steeplechase, after a great race
with Sportsman (lOst. 91bs.), was won by the big grey.
Lone Hand, who carried 13st. The other events were
only of local interest.
The results of the Tenterfield Race Meeting on
Anniversary Day are as follows:—Maiden Plate, All
Fours; Sovereign Plate, Chester; Tenterfield Handi-
cap. Butterfly ; District Plate, All Pours; Open
Handicap, Butterfly.
The final payments for the Wellington Cup, run
on February 3rd, are —Lady Emma Hailstorm, On Dit,
Natator, Libeller, Sir George, the Governor, Mischief,
Dan, Virginia Water, Luna, Norseman, Eandwiek,
Volunteer, and Badsworth.
The races at Orange on Anniversary Day re-
sulted as follows: —Lucknow Maiden Plate, Glimpse;
Eesidents’ Purse, Gaylad; Town Plate, Try Again;
Ladies’ Purse, Caractacus, Publican’s Purse, Melody;
Forced Handicap, Pleasant.
The result of the Amateur Turf Club Races at
Bathurst on Anniversary Day were as follow: —Brace-
let —Veloda, 1; Anniversary Handicap—Vril, 1; Ama-
teur Welter Stakes —Cracker, 1; Welter Selling Plate—
Cracker, 1; Free Handicap—Vril, 1.
Charles Rowell, the world’s champion pedes-
trian, was bom at Chesterton, Cambridgeshire,
England, in 1854. In height he is 5 feet 6 inches, and he
weighs lOst. In early life he was a boatman. He won
£8000 straight out over his two American contests.
The results of the Kogarah Jockey Club Races,
which took place on Saturday last, are as follow;—
Flying Handicap : Polly 1. Kogarah Handicap: Lord
Orville 1. Galloway Eace: Isabella 1. Anniversary
Handicap: Victor 1. Beaten Stakes : Wagga Wagga 1.
A forty-eight hours’ walking match, between
young Scott, the New Zealand champion, and Edwards,
will take place at the Garrison Hall, Dunedin, on
February 24th, 25th, and 26th (race nights). The stakes
are £200 aside. A great interest is already being taken
in the contest.
The Carltons met the Bathurst Club on Ann-
versary Day, the former winning the match in one in-
nings with 29 runs to spare. The Carltons made 126
runs. C. Bannerman went in first and carried his bat
out for a well-played 53. Bathurst made —first innings,
83; second, 24.
At the fourth annual meeting of the Canterbury
(N.Z.) Coursing Club, the annual report showed—Ee-
ceipts, £1127 13s. 3d.; expenditure, £1076 Os. 6d.; leav-
ing a balance of £51 16s. 3d. An honorarium was
granted to the secretary (W. G. Walker) for his services
during the past three years.
Daniel O’Leary issues a challenge offering to
match Frank Hart, the colored pedestrian, of Boston,
Mass., against Charles Eowell, the English champion,
for a six days’ race, go-as-you-please, or Dobler against
Eowell for a 36 hours’ race. Either of these matches
to be for £500 or £1000 a side.
A Dunedin journal thinks Edwards’ walk of 180
miles in 48 hours is not one of any significance com-
pared with others of a like nature, and adds: —“ So
long ago as 1847, at Maitland, in New South Wales, J.
F. King, the ‘ Flying Pieman,’ walking on the race-
course, did 192 miles in 46J hours.”
Among other bets on double events, made during
the last season in England, was one of £10,000 to £30
against Eobert the Devil and Lucetta for the Cezarwith
and Cambridgeshire. The bet was taken by Count
Jaraezowski, who has come into a snug little fortune
through an insignificant investment.
J. O’Connor, “ champion of New Zealand,” per-
formed the feat recently of walking seven miles within
the hour, at the Odd Fellows’ Hall, Christchurch,
England. The following is the time for each mile: —
1st mile, 8min.; 2nd, 8min.; 3rd, 8|min.; 4th, 9min.; 5th,
8|min.; 6th, 8Jmin.; 7th, 8min.; total 58)min.
Judging from present form the following should
represent the N.S.W. contingent in the coming Inter-
colonial match :—Messrs. Evans, Massie, D. Gregory,
A. and C. Bannerman, Jones, Garrett, Wearne, Coates,
Eoberts, and Powell, or Sheridan. Should Coates be
unable to play, Allen or Geary should fill up the vacancy.
A match for .£200 aside has at last been
definitely arranged between the N ew Zealand trotting
horses. Philips’ Native Cat and Kirkwood’s Our Pony,
to come off on the second day of the Dunedin meeting
(February 24th), distance three miles; Native Cat
giving five seconds start. The first deposit of £50 aside
has been made.
Says “ Vagrant” in the Maitland Mercury :
—“ On the first day of the Maitland meeting Mr. Gris-
dale will dispose of Mr. E. Lynch’s old terror. Sir
Solomon, one of the best and most consistent per-
formers in the colony over all distances and under all
weights, and who has I believe won more races than any
other horse in Australia.”
Roberts scored 90, and not out, for Petersham on
Saturday. He has appeared at the practices for the
Intercolonial match, but neither his wicket-keeping
nor batting appears to please the critics. It is said that
he stands too far away from the wicket to stump
quickly; that may be so, but he takes the returns from
the field as well as any wicket-keeper since the days of
Dick Hewitt.
The Wanganui (N. Z.) Trotting Association
lately held a meeting. Evans’ Marmion and Millie
won the race for vehicles drawn by two horses. Millie
won the race for saddle-horses, three miles, in lOmin.
2|sec. A sweepstakes for a mile race (gallop) was won
by Dan, in Imin. 48sec. The Trotting Handicap, three
miles, was won by Marmion, 35 yards start, in 8min.
45|sec.; Nellie, scratch, came in second; eleven
started.
A match was played on the Association Ground
on Monday between the Belvidere and Eedfem Clubs,
and resulted in a draw. The Belvideres obtained the
large score of 171, the principal contributors being
Main 48, Ward 44, Lindeman and Anderson 19 each,
Eoberts 18, and Eichardson 11. When the stumps were
drawn the Eedfems had lost 5 wickets for 84 runs, of
which Waters made 21, Greenwood, not out, 24, and
Evers, not out 23.
In the District Court, Melbourne, M‘Mahon v.
Swan, the pedestrian, was an action for assault. This
matter has already been referred to in the press. While
Swan was going round the track on Saturday night
M’Mahon made some remark, which the former con-
strued offensively, and he knocked M’Mahon’s pipe out
of his month, which formed the assault complained of.
The Bench dismissed the case, deeming that Swan’s
feathers had been unduly ruffled.
The owner and jockey of a horse engaged in the
Hack Hurdle Eace at the recent Hawke’s Bay (N.Z.)
races, have been disqualified under peculiar circum-
stances. The owner backed his horse in the totalisator.
On learning that the money was paid to the horse first
past the post, he then instructed the boy who rode to
ran across the course, so as to get in first. The totali-
sator man refused to pay, which led to the investigation,
when the bov stated his instructions.
The January meeting of the Newcastle Jockey
Club was held on the 26th and 27th, and the results of
the two days’ racing are as follows : —First day, Shorts
Handicap, Lady Clifden; Maiden Plate, Whirlwind;
Newcastle Jockey Club Handicap, Kathleen Mavour-
neen; Two Year Old Stakes, The Gem; Fifth Eace,
Silent. Second day, Free Handicap, Hesperian ; Nur-
sery Handicap, Gem; The City Handicap, Secundus;
Selling Stakes, Lavinia; Forced Handicap. Verdict.
A rifle match took place at the butts at Bathurst
on Anniversary Day, between the Sydney No. 4 Com-
pany and the Bathurst Volunteer Corps, at 500 and 600
yards. The contest was arranged for ten men a-side,
but Sydney fired with two men short, and were allowed
to take the score of the eight as the average of the ab-
sentees. The total points made by Sydney, with the
average added, was 475. Total for Bathurst, 460 —the
visitors winning by 25 points.
There was a good attendance on the holiday to
witness the regatta and aquatic sports at Maitland.
The results of the principal events are as follows: —
Amateur Double Sculls —Feeney and Bourke, 1; All-
comers’ Handicap, single sculls —E. Shepherd, 1; Muni-
cipal Flood-boat Eace —Morris Brothers and Webb,!;
Youths’ Eace —W. Compton, 1; Bona-fide Amateurs’
Eace —Beckmann, 1. J. Taylor won the Diving Match
and W. Morris the Champion Swimming Handicap.
A match was played in Moore Park on Anni-
versary Day between the Perseverance and Australian
Sorry C.C’s., and resulted in a victory for the former
by three runs. Scores ; P.C.C., 37; A.S.C.C., 34. The
batting of Hinchy for the Perseverance Club, and
Collins for the Australian Surrys, was very good.
The bowling of Chippendale and Davis was effective —
Chippendale taking six wickets, and for the A.S.C.C.
Blackburn was very good.
A match between the Perseverance C.C. and
Young Australians C.C. took place in Moore Park last
Saturday, and resulted in a very easy victory for the
former by 66 runs. Scores: P.C.C., 135; Y. A.C.C., 79.
The batting of Hinchy (14) and Chippendale (10) for the
Perseverance Club was good, as also that of Eice (7)
for their opponents. The bowling of Wright and Davis
for the P.C.C., and Sullivan for the Y.A.C.C. was very
good.
Laycock practises now with a pair of Canadian-
made sculls, which were brought to England for
Warren Smith. He has relinquished to a considerable
extent the cross-handed style of rowing, which is so
distinctively Australian, and by all accounts his rowing
is greatly improved thereby. If we are to judge by the
latest and best accounts of the race between Hanlan
and Trickett, Laycock will probably be defeated; for,
although Trickett was fit and well, Hanlan played with
him after a mile and a half.
The match between the Carlton and Newtown
Clubs was continued on Saturday, on the Association
Ground, and resulted in an easy victory for the Carlton
in one innings, with 47 runs to spare. Scanlan increased
his score to 24, when he was bowled by Geary. None
of the remaining batsmen made a stand, and the innings
closed for 47. The Newtowns had to follow up their
innings, and succeeded in obtaining 89 runs, Scanlan
again making top score with 31. Stonehill made 19,
and G. Neale 12. The fielding of the Carlton team was
excellent, and Callachor distinguished himself behind
the wickets.
An exciting contest lately took place at Hagley
Park, Christchurch, New Zealand, between two “ peds,”
Messrs. Webber and Woollcotton. The distance was
two miles, and the stakes £15 aside. The first half-mile
was accomplished in 2min. 30seo.; one mile in 5min.
lOsec., Webber leading three yards; mile and half was
reached in 7min. 5jsec., Webber still leading; and
Webber maintained the advance until about 20 yards
from home, when with a terrific rush, Woollcotton
came up and won by about eight yards—Webber pull-
ing up fifteen yards from the tape. The whole distance
was done in 9min, 18isec.
The Albion Cricket Club have decided to discon-
tinue playing any more matches for the Waddy Chal-
lenge Cup, in consequence of the decision of the
delegates respecting an Albion player in the late match
with Morpeth. As we have previously remarked, it is a
pity that the success of these interesting contests
should be so marred by the withdrawal of one of the
principal contesting clubs. Might we suggest that the
case be referred for arbitration to the N. S Wales
Cricketing Association—the clubs interested agreeing
to accept the decision of that body ? We are certain
that the highest cricket tribunal in the colony would
be willing to give their accistance to settle the dispute.
The Hurdle Eace at the Waerenga-a-Hika
(Gisborne, N.Z.), meeting resulted in a remarkable fiasco.
Only one horse, Lizard, started to canter round, came
to grief at the last hurdle, the rider, who had declared
91bs overweight, being severely hurt. Another jockey
ran down to the scene of the accident, donned the
iniured man’s colors, caught the horse, and rode to the
winning post. On weighing in the second jockey was
found to be very much under weight. Another jockey
then took the horse down to the spot where the first
rider was spilled and rode into the weighing paddock.
The stewards, however, decided that a second weighing
in was against racing rules, and the race was declared
void.
The Albert and University clubs met on Anni-
versary Day, on the Association Ground. The match
resulted in a draw, the state of the game when the
stumps were drawn being:—Alberts, 234; University,
4 wickets for 162. Massie again went in for big scoring,
and obtained 135 by dashing play and remarkably good
hitting. He gave a rather difficult chance when he was
about 40 which might have been taken had the fieldman
judged the catch. Nat. Thompson got a duck-egg;
Webster played well for his 36; and Murdoch played
carefully and steadily for 22. Tindall obtained 14 by
some very queer batting. Had the game been continued
the University would undoubtedly have won, as Powell
and Allen, the not-out men, with the respective scores
of 53 and 56, were scoring freely and looked like fixtures.
Coates was run out for 13, and J ones was bowled by Crane
for 23.
Despite the numerous counter attractions on
Anniversary Day, the Parramatta Jockey Club meeting
was very successful, and the attendance amounted to
nearly four thousand people. His Excellency the
Governor and suite attended. The following are the
results of the various events ; —Handicap Hurdle Eace,
two miles: Eadical 1, The flatter 2, Sleet 3. The Fly-
ing Handicap, one mile : Tatoo I, The Knave 2, Chil-
ders 3; time, Imin. 47secs. Prince of Wales Shakes,
one mile: All Fours 1, Wagga Wagga 2, Marquis 3;
time, Imin. Slsecs. Wagga Wagga and All Fours ran
a dead head, but in the run off All Fours won by a
length. Anniversary Handicap, one mile and a half :
Strathearn 1, The Dean 2, The Knave 3; time, 2min.
404-lOsecs. Two and Three Year Old Handicap, six
furlongs : Templar 1, Partner 2, Boniface (late Baronet)
3; time, Imin. 17secs. Galloway Handicap, once round :
Johnny Smoker 1, Miss Fortune 2, Parole 3.
The latest advices from London state that all
arrangements have been made and all the stakes posted
for the glove fight between Denny Harrington, the
middle weight champion pugilist of England, and
William Sheriff, the Prussian. The pugilists are to
fight with small gloves, according to the Marquis of
Queensbury rules, for £200 and the middle weight
championship of England. Sheriff has been training
steadily for several weeks, and his backers, who hail
from the west of London, place great confidence in his
ability to whip Harrington. The latter has not fought
for some time, and many claim that he is becoming
stale. Harrington’s backers, however, are confident he
will win, and are backing their opinion by offering £10
to £6 on their champion. Harrington is the pugilist
who defeated George Eooke in England. He is a clever
two-handed pugilist, and a second Joe Goss for punish-
ing and receiving punishment. Jack Hicks, who has
had charge of several noted pugilists, is looking after
Sheriff.
In regard to Laycock’s style of rowing, a noted
English sporting journal says: — “ The herculean
strength of Laycock, when added to his style, enables
him to set the style of rowing as we have of late under-
stood it at defiance. After 1871 sliding seats became
the rage, but it was not until Hanlan and Boss came
here in 1879 that we were supposed to know how to use
them. During the last sixteen or seventeen months,
nothing has gone down witn scullers and admirers of
sculling but the twenty-four inch slide —that is, nothing
went down like it until Laycock made such an exhibi-
tion of its suppositiously best representatives. Lay-
cock, unless our eyes are altogether at fault, slides no
further on his rollers than Bob Chambers and other
north countrymen used to slide on their greasy fixtures.
He is as far behind the improvement as shown by
Sadler and Higgins, Boyd and Elliott, before last year’s
invasion, as Hanlan is in front of it. Hanlan seems to
get forward without an effort, and he displays an im-
mense amount of gracefulness while manipulating the
sculls.”
There are certain persons in the community
upon whom an invasion of the public prerogative, how-
ever slight, has the same effect as the exhibition of a
red rag to a wild bull. The granting by the Trustees
of a small portion of Cook Park for a bowling green has
evoked the pious horror of those worthies who, because
they are virtuous, would deprive their less ascetic
brethren of their cakes and ale. The neglected pad-
dock, dignified by the designation of Cook Park, which
was erstwhile the grazing ground of a few forlorn cows,
and which is now only used as a thoroughfare between
Woolloomooloo and Hyde Park, has been made a pic-
turesque spot by the efforts and expenditure of the
Bowling Club. A beautiful lawn has been made, with a
fence to protect the turf, and a small jAvilion has been
erected —and this in a wholly unfrequented and ne-
glected portion of the park. Immediately these
splenetic and Pharisaic individuals lash themselves to
fury concerning this “ invasion of the public pre-
rogative,” and in their search for the injured public,
they can bring forward to back up their cause only the
persecuted nursegirls and their charges, who never, in
their wildest peregrinations, sought the confines of
Cook Paddock for recreation and enjoyment. Now
there will be some attraction about it, for the public
will be admitted to the bowling green; and we trust
that the privilege granted by the Trustees will not be
cancelled through the clamour of a few irate individuals.
The yacht race for Vice-Commodore Mackellar’a
prize took place in the harbour on Saturday afternoon.
The entrances and handicaps were as follows :—Mistral,
35 tons, W. O. Gilchrist, scratch; Magic, 28 tons. J. E.
Fairfax, scratch; Waitangi, 22 tons, J. Newton, 12miu ;
Daphne, 10 tons, C. T. Gedye, 24min.; Doris, 5 tons.
Dr. Milford, 35min. A good start was effected, the
Doris obtaining a slight lead, but the Magic soon went
to the front, followed by the Mistral and Daphne. This
order was kept to Manly, the Waitangi making up for
the time she had lost weathering Bradley’s. The Magic
and Mistral made a race of it throughout, while the
Waitangi and Daphne each made great efforts for third
place. Tho Doris was well in the race, but lost her
chance by failing to weather the Sow and Pigs. Tho
official timing was—Magic, 5brs. 31min. 48sec.; Mis-
tral; 5hrs. 33min. 42sec. ; Waitangi, 5hrs. 42min. 37sec.;
Daphne, 5hrs. Slmin. 8sec.; Doris, 6hrs. ISmin. 12sec.
The prize was therefore won by time allowance by the
Daphne, being within her time from the Magic 4min.
40sec., and from the Waitangi 3min. 29sec. The Magic
takes second prize.
According to the cable dispatches, Rowell, in
the recent Astley Belt contest, beat all previous records
at about 8 hours, was ahead of all former performances
at 14 hours by 9 miles, at 16 hours by 11 miles, at 24
hours by 14 miles, at 26 hours by 25 miles, at 33 hours
by 22 miles, at 38 hours by 25 miles, at 57 hours by 23
miles, at 62 hours by 25 miles, at 71 hours by 22 miles,
at 74 hours by 24 miles, at 83 hours by 9 miles, at 85
hours by 15 miles, at 87 hours by 13 miles, at 90 hours
by 17 miles, at 96 hours by 11 miles, at 98 hours by 11
miles. Soon after this he commenced to go slower and
slower, and at 105 hours was 1 mile behind Frank H.
Hart’s record; at 109 hours, 2 miles ; at 110 hours, 2
miles; at 112 hours, 4 miles. At 119 miles he was again
1 mile ahead of former scores, and at 122 hours was
just even with them. At 133 hours he had fallen 11
miles behind Hart’s record, and at 138 hours was
8 miles in the rear. He remained behind until the end
of Hart’s record, which is 565 miles 165 yards in 141
hours 24 minutes 30 seconds, but remained on the track
16 minutes later, and thus reached a total of 566 miles
in 141 hours 40 minutes.
The Anniversary Regatta was, of course, the
greatest attraction on Anniversary Day. All the ships
in the harbor were gaily decorated with bunting, and
the shores crowded with numerous spectators. A light
south-east wind prevailed during the day, and the
harbor was dotted with all kinds of craft, making it
confusing at times to distinguish the competing boats.
The E.M.S. Australia, which was kindly granted by
Captain Cargill as flagship for the occasion, was
anchored off Sydney Cove. The delegates to the Inter-
colonial Conference were on board during the whole
day, especially at luncheon time. Mr. C. E. Smith did
the catering, and the “Vernon” boys fired the guns.
The results of the principal events are as follow ;—The
Laidley Sculls; S.E.C., D. Lord, list., 1; Sea Breeze,
W. G. Anslow, list. 51bs., 2. Lord won easily. All
Comers, pulling a pair of sculls in light skiffs, handi-
capped : Chester, C. Reynolds, 601bs., 1; Lookout, G.
Priddle, 151bs., 2; Grand Flaneur, J. Power, 301bs., 3.
Maiden Amateurs, pulling four oars in string-test
gigs: M. E. C., W. A. Blackstone, W. Wheatley,
W. C. Rush, A. W. Coker (stroke), 1; G.R.C.: R.
Shute, C. Smith, F. Bell, A. Ickerson (stroke), 2. One
of the grandest amateur races ever rowed, won by half
a length. First-class yachts, 15 tons and upwards,
handicapped: Mistral, W. O. Gilchrist, 35 tons, 2
minutes, 1; Waitangi, J. Newton, 22 tons, 12 minutes,
2; Magic, J. E. Fairfax, 28 tons, scratch. The Magic
came in first but did not win by her time allowance.
Senior Amateurs, pulling four oars in string test gigs :
M.E.C., C. H. Williams, A. P. Bros, W. G. Brett, C. A.
Bros (stioke), 1; S.E.G., John Thompson, W. G.
Anslow, A. Finlayson, John Arthur (stroke), 2. Won
by two lengths in 27 mins. 7 secs. Champion Belt, for
all comers, in outriggers: Susie, H. Pearce, 1; Young
Australia, W. Trickett. 2; Phoebe, J. C. Laycock, 3.
Pearce won as he liked, though Trickett rowed in very
good style. Merchant ships’ gigs : Hydaspes, E. Har-
vey, 1; John Williams, W. Adjataki, 2. Allcomers,
pulling a pair of sculls in watermen’s skiffs, handi-
capped : Secundus, J. Power, 151b§, 1; Susie, H. Pearce,
551bs., 2 ; Annie, C. Messenger. Feather, 3; Chester, C.
Reynolds, 351bs., 4. A splendid race, the issue of which
was not known until the jud-e had given his decision.
Men of war barges: D’Estrees (No. 3), Jean Perrin;
D’Estrees (No. 2), C. Jervois, 2; D’Estrees (No.
3), Jean Picand, 3. At the conclusion of the regatta
the Committee made a handsome present to Captain
Cargill for his kindness and courtesy.
Famous Men of Muscle.
Milo six times won the palm at both the Olympic and
Pythian games. He is said to have run a mile with a
four-year old ox upon his shoulders, and afterwards
killed the animal with one blow of his fist, and ate the
entire carcase in one day. So great was his muscular
power that he would bind a cord round his head and
break it by the swelling pressure of the veins. An
ordinary meal for Milo was twenty pounds of meat, as
much bread, and fifteen pints of wine.
Polydamus, of Thessalia, was of colossal height and
prodigious strength, and, it is said, alone and without
weapons killed an enormous enraged lion. One day, it
is recorded he seized a bull by the hind feet, and the
animal escaped only by leaving the hoof in the grasp of
the athlete.
The Eoman Emperor Maximinus was upward of eight
feet in height, and, like Milo of Crotona, could squeeze
to powder the hardest stone with his fingers and break
the leg of a horse by a kick. His wife’s bracelet served
him as a ring, and has every-day repast was sixty pounds
of meat and an amphora of wine.
"While a prisoner in Germany Eichard I. accepted an
invitation to a boxing match with the son of his jailer.
He received the first blow, which made him stagger;
but recovering, with a blow of his fist he killed his an-
tagonist on the spot.
Tophan, an Englishman, bom in 1710, was possessed
of astonishing strength. His armpits, hollow in the case
of ordinary men, were with him full of muscles and ten-
dons. He would take a bar of iron with its two ends held
in his hands, place the middle of the bar behind his
neck, and bend the extremities hy main force until they
met together, and bend back the iron straight again.
One night seeing the watchman asleep in his box, he
carried the man and his shell to a great distance, and
put them on the wall of a churchyard. Owing to
domestic troubles he committed suicide in the prime of
life.
The famous Scanderberg, King of Albania, who was
bom in 1414, was a man of great stature, and his feats
of sword exercise have never been equalled. On one
occasion, with his soimeter, he struck his antagonist
such a blow that its force cleaved him to the waist. He
is said to have cloven in two men who were clad in
armour from head to foot. On one occasion the brother
and nephew of a certain Ballaban, who had been con-
victed of cruelties towards the Albanians, were brought
to him f ound together. Transported with rage, he cut
them in two with one stroke of his weapon.
Maurice, Count of Saxony, the hero of Fontenoy, in-
herited the physical vigor of his father, and was
especially noted for the muscular power or “ grip ” of
his hands. On one occasion, needing a corkscrew, ho»
twist ed a large iron nail round into the rt quired shape
with his fingers and opened half a dozen be ties of wine
with it. Another tilne, when stopping at a blacksmith
shop to have his horse shod, he picked up a number of
horseshoes, and with his hands snapped them iu two as
readily as if made of glass, much to the disgust of the
smith.
If history is to be believed, Phatyllus, of Crotona*
could jump a distance of fifty-six feet. The exercise
was practised at the Olympic games, and formed part
of the course of the Pantahlon.
Strutt, an English authority on games and amuse-
ments, speaks of a Yorkshire jumper, named Ireland,
whose powers were marvellous. He was s,x feet high,
and at the age of eighteen leaped, without the aid of a
spring-board, over nine horses side by side. He cleared
a cord extended fourteen feet from the ground with one
bound, crushed with his foot a bladder suspended at the
height of sixteen feet, and on another occasion lightly
cleared a large waggon covered with an awning.
Colonel Ironside, who lived i i India, early in this
century, relates that he met iu his travels au old white-
haired man, who, with one leap, sprang over the back
of an enormous elephant flanked by six camels of the
jargest breed.
A curious French work, published in Paris, in 1745,
entitled, “ The Tracts toward the History of Wonders
Performed at Fairs,” mentioned an Englishman who,
at the fair of St. Germain in 1724, leaped over forty
people without touching one of them.
Iu our own day we are familiar with many remarkable
expo.-iriuns of strength and endurance. Dr. Winship,
wirh the aid of straps, lifted a weight of 3,500 pounds,
and with the little finger of his right hand, could raise
his body a considerable distance from the ground.
(Compiled by S.)


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
R. C. HAGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
127 King Street.
A
H
M
H
H
-si
h-i q.
o 5
>*
EH
53
H
O
H
H
£ «
H
W &
in ph
O M
a «
H
P 5
m ©
P-»
53
O
-V- r .
ifA
V.
O'
Si
as*
•'' :v
V
; 'A
£5
Ml
- :
Note the Address —
N.B. £
127 KING STREET, ") N B
Five Books From Pxtt-St. S
WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED TROUSERS, to order, 16s. 6d.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
Thompson and
DENISON HOUSE,
GILES,
358,
SPEING NOVELTIES.
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot be sold at lower
rates.
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen’s Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably cut, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Direct special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits,
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
J.
656
BYOUB A L E,
FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER.
GEORGE STREET, 656
(Just below Liverpool-st.)
W
i-i
*3
H)
►H
3
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, ss, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OR POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 5s
JUST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OF BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESENTS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
t)
W
H
co
co
K
W
M
P
X ABIES WILL BE MUCH INTERESTED
1 i WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN S
(the “ Hordern ”of the city). LADIES HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for 8(d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2s 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLINERY.
("THOMPSON AI
opened their ex
of Millinery, wl
exhibiting in th
all choice good
snred that thos
with an inspect
gratified at the
now displaying,
comprise an ext
of British and
made especially
Giles hy the 1
London and
trimmed Bonm
18s 9d. Ladie
Feathers, Hei
. ments, &c
("THOMPSON am
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
TLES, FICHUS
—We wish to ci
attention of thi
Department, as
the finest lot of
Capeletts, and
ever heen exhi
Our Stock cons
designs in shape
variety of Braid
lid to 30s; Ma:
trimmed, from 21
Cashmere Mantl
Large lot of Pre
chased very mu<
prices; somever
at very low price
Jerseys, to lac
every colour ax
dren’s Jerseys,
every size.
THOMPSON ai
TUME DEPAR
first houses in
in every style, i
can select in ac<
vidual taste, f
from 42s to 6 gu
signs and trimm
variety of Was
cambrics and
printed sateen
Galatea stripes,
from 15s to 30s,
well made. 1
tumes, in a var
_ other fabrics, &
"THOMPSON ai
ING FABRIC
plain and print
Materials is m
hvnmrur Q.ll of.t
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
(Comprising Coat, Vest.)
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours. Well
cut and finished in the
best manner. J
32s 6d
per suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
("Specially Light and'l
I Durable, the materials 1 g3s er
■J having been well )■ guit _
shrunk before being 1
C made up. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
fin Superior Orientan
Tweeds, cut in the 68s g( j
> latest style, and > r
finished the same as *
ordered clothing. J
Orient
Walking Suits,
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
/"Beautifully light in'
Orient J Texture, permanent in I 38s 6d
Serg Suits. j colour and very dur- C per suit
C able in wear.
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
•piXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET.
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d„ 16s. 6d., 21b., 255.
TROUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
AT.Ti COATS PITTED before FINISHED.
EXCELLENCEWTIH ECONOMY.
Business Announcements
LLegal.J
s
HORTEE, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
BEST LARGEST STOCK
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIRST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & CO.’b
MARKET CLOTH HALL
482 (late 484) george street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
- . troctehc ■ /, w Order, from 8s 6d
TROUSERS & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASURE, 37s 6d
«- All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
ONDON
16
TAILORING COMPANY,
PARK STREET,
(Near George-street),
Are now making to measure —
Fancy Silk Vest l 2s - 6d -
West of England Tweed Trousers... 12s. 6d.
„ Suits 50s.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
R. L. LINDSAY.
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slatteet,
SOLICITOE, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
w.
MACLEOD,
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOUEKE STEEET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
AND S. PREDDEY.
* SAW MILLS AND TIMBER TAED,
16 Ehskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
D
AYID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen's
Orient
Clothing.
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
1 Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
out, and nicely
finished.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
8.8. Frock
Coats.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
The
Orient.
('Special attention is in-')
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and Orient
most perfect in style 1 Clothing,
and flnsh procurable |
in the colony. J
In Superior Tasmanian-)
Flannel, thoroughly ( lgg 5d
{
shrunk.
rChina Silk Coats 15s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
L
!In fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
In Super Black Merino, 255.
In Blue Sergerette, 465.
In Black Sergerette, 455.
fin fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
7 In Black Merino. 30s.
fin Super Sergerette, 555.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in Self Colours, 8s 6d.
, „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s 6d,
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
fin Superior, all Wool-)
■J Tambary Tweed, well >• 30s each
(. finished. )
{A Special Dress OverO
coat, silk trimmings, |
and facings, beauti- J>-
fully tight, and agree- I
able to wear. J
56s
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
V
ICTOEIA
YAENISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Importer of Paperhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
"White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEOEGE-STEEET. SYDNEY.
JH A R V E T,
• WHEEL WEIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hat and Engine Streets.
Established 1851.
XX
xxxx
XX XX
XX XX
XX XX
XX in XX
XX PITT XX
XX STREET XX
XX AT XX
XX HORDERN’S, XX
XX XX
XX GENTLEMEN’S XX
XX GOOD XX
XX NIGHT SHIRTS XX
XX 2s. lid., 2s. lid. only. XX
XX XX
XX Don’t forget the shop.
XX COME AND SEE XX
XX THESE NIGHT SHIRTS. XX^
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxraxxx
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
THOMPSON & GILES.
Railway Contractors wonld find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
« L A° E CURTAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, FALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
J. HAEY E Y.
Hay and Engine Streets.
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
JgOYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOE SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR,
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOYS’ and YOUTHS’
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suite.
Youths’
Blue Serge
Suits.
In neat fashionable
Tweeds, neatly cut 1
and well made, and j
, finished. I
7s fid, 8s
Bd, 12s fid,
13s fid, 15s
fid, 17s fid,
19s fid per
suit.
fin new shapes, veryh 12s fid to
3 prettily trimmed, and >l9s fid per
C thoroughly well-made.,) suit.
'ln fancy and plaint
1 Drills, trimmed in (
) new and effective C
For dress wear, extras
finished, superior I
material, and excel- f
lent shape. )
In superior Navy Serges \
complete with lan-1
yard, whistle, badge, f
collar and undershirt. J
5s lid, 7s
fid, 9s 5d
per suit.
20s to 27s
fid per
suit.
24s 6d to
27s fid per
suit.
{ln light and dark mix-')
tures, cut in fashion- | 21s fid to
able styles, well j-to 23s fid
trimmed and strongly ) per suit,
made. J
In fine durable Estarl
mene Serge, admirably I 22s to 27s
adapted for school and 6d«
general wear.
Youths’s Dia- f For dress wearl 2 gs to 40s
gonai and Ser- i trimmed and made m h guit>
gerette Suits. t a superior manner. > r
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL {only address).
CHINA, GLASS, EAETHENWAEE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONEET, CLOCKS, JEWELLEEY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
ANNIX BROTHER S’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
38
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COL ONT
FOE.
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
To Country Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the address:
MANNIX BROS.,
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.
B
iON MAECHE, 96 KING STEEET.
The LAEGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements
■First—All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
m Secondly —The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goods.
LEADEE AND STAEK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good repnta-
tion of the Bon Marche of the Southern Hemisphere.
YORK STREET.
A G. CHUBCHWOOD
* IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES,
£IHEAPEST AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MAKE ISAACS’ CORPORATION STORES,
HAY STREET, HAYMARKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.
SAUSAGE SKINS,
147 YOEK STEEET.
Of Every Description
T REDUCED BATES
Executed with Despatch hy
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
Also,
PUBLISHING OFFICE of “ THE BULLETIN.’


Hotels, &c.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM. T4NNEB, Proprietor.
(Lm Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central. Terms Moderate.
c.
W. ROBERTS,
MARKET STREET,
FOR FIRST-CLASS WINES, SPIRITS, AND
BEERS,
J C. W A L K E
(Late COLLINS & ROACH).
CRATED WATERS, GINGER BEES,
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO.
SCHNAPPS
JhePurestStiwuiant ,
$
JUNIPER TREE GIN.
This celebi ated Dutch Gin may now be obtained of
all storekeepers and respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tnred Gin now so largely consumed.
rP.
so
S
rd
%
&
n
Cj
9
i
Wholesale Agent—CHAS. BATH,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT isnot the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous chara/ •
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
noal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
equa
Sole Agents,
RAO£ MAR
'7/
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. B. CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.
Hotels, &c.
F O 8 T E R.
f
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
r
fu
Sole
Trap-jc tore,
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should he carefully compared, as Dree quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in .’small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HOTEL DE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal.
A N CL
DE.
or
EBAC
MU
id
iwhihbi
LJ
I 7
p
re
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOR TRAVELLERS.
3. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS.
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
Mreet special attention to their PRICE LIST of
CHOICE TEAS-
G
A good useful tea
Good family tea
A really first-class tea
1/3
1/6
2/-
A fine blend of Indian and China 2 '6
Finest blended tea, unsurpassed, 3/•
Finest Indian pekoe ij-
Superior coffee 1/6
CABLES AND ANDERSON.
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
Hotels, &
FO H N A. W
WINE GROWER & M
COOLALTA WIN!
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, C
Sydney.
Vineyard; Coolalta, Branxton
PRICE LIST
COOLALTA
Extra fine quality, 425,
RED WINES Quarl
s.
Bungundy 30
No. 1 Coolalta Bed 21
No. 2 ~ IS
Yin Ordinaire 12
WHITE WINES.
Muscat 30
No. 1 Coolalta 21
No. 2 „ * 16
Yin Ordinaire 12
I
ICE. I C I
E
FROM filtere:
Supplied in any Qi
AND AT REDUCE]
Direct from t
CITY ICE COMP AIN
WATERLG
Office — 24 O’CONNEI
T
HE GENUINE EAU
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished hy tl
Me
Ccaui
Manufactured
JOHANN MAEIA
JULICHS-PLATZ,
COLOGNE, o/Rh. (G
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Ro,
By appointment to His Royi
Prince of Wah
Prize Medals; —London, 1851; Ne
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (I
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili)
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (1
not represented.) Sydney, 1879
Notice. —The Public are cautioi
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudul
Colognes; and netice is hereby g
Marks being duly registered, all i
ceeded against to the full extent o
JOHANN MAR
J
WHOLESALE AG
MESSRS. RABONE, F:
3 WYNYARD SQI
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAPPING Ml
Hotels, &c.
The compagnoni palace
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY, (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAFE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mens.
Marriette, late chM de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Private rooms for special dinners for select parties.
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished.
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
■ SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880.
c
OMPAGNONI PALACE CAFE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS FRIED
and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAGNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
T
ATTERSALL’S HOTEL.
TERRAKA
PATRICK STANTON,
(Late of Sydney and Mittagong),
Proprietor.
tsr None but first class ALES, WINES, & SPIRITS
in STOCK,
Every attention paid to Visitors who will find Good
Aocomedation.
TERMS MODERATE.
ALCOCK’S FULL-SIZED BILLIARD TABLE.
HORSES and BUGGY always in readiness.
*ST Commercial Travellere and Visitors to SHOAL-
HAVEN supplied with Private or Public Conveyances
on receipt of telegram or letter. Also a commodious
SHOW ROOM for Commercials.
The “Bulletin” Coach meets Steamer twice wee ak
from the Hotel.
E W
ZEALAND.
To Tourists and others Visiting New Zealand.
WAIWERA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEAR AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, ROTORUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of every description). 24
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, TARAWERA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the far-famed ROTOMA-
HANA TERRACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite establishments.
On receipt of telegram or letter addressed to " The
Manager,” at Ellerslie, the fullest information will be
immediately supplied.
ROBERT GRAHAM, Proprietor.
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OF THE WAIWERA
AND ROTORUA WATERS (NEW ZEALAND),
BY Dr. ECCLES.
Lake House, Rotorua, 12th September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot Springs), also Lake
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel, Tarawera,
on a tour, for the purpose of investigating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. I have in each case stayed
at the hotels owned by Mr. R. Graham, and have to
thank him and his managers for the great courtesy ex-
tended towards me. The Springs at the first two men-
tioned places, I feel confident, possess the most valu-
able medicinal qualities, whilst the Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from the last-mentioned place) are such that
every person possessing the men ns ought to visit. The
internal arrangements of the various hotels have been
made to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M. 8., Cantab; F.R.C.S., L.M., Edin.
NEW ZEALAND.
10 TOURISTS AND OTHERS VISITING
NEW ZEALAND.
The Auckland Route is the shortest, safest and best
route to the wonderful Hot Lake District. The STAR
HOTEL, Albert-Street, Auckland (in close proximity
to the Wharf and Railway Station), offers special and
advantageous inducements to travellers. This magnifi-
cent Hotel is luxuriously furnished and replete with
every appurtenance and appliance of a really first-class
house.
Visitors to Auckland would do well to inspect the
suburb accommodation obtainable only at “ THE
STAR," before deciding where they will locate them-
W. A. CLARKE Manager.
ADAM CAIRNS Proprietor.
JO ENGLISH TOURISTS
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS. NEW SOUTH WALES.
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA,
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains, First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS.
Proprietor.
Try BU S H EL L
FOR
S I G_N S.
No. 11, HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
p R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
Corner
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-18 George-street West (late Parramatta-street).
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street.
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholesale and Retail Wine and Spirit Merchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, &c.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to. POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Williamsons have arrived. Big season at
the Royal.
Cooper sold his share in the circus to Bailey for
£9000 cash.
St. Leon’s Circus Company are performing in
Launceston.
What bird is most detested by pros. ? The
goose, of course.
Henry Bracey, of the Globe Company, gets a
salary of £16 a week.
Mr. and Mrs. Hart (Kate Russell) still playing
in N.Z. country towns.
lima di Murska was singing at Cork in the
early part of Novemoer.
Miss Adelaide Bowring (Mrs. Steele) has been
drawing immensely in Otago.
Cheevers and Charles Sutton have joined the
Moore and Burgess Minstrels.
Ella Le Fevre is still playing in opera at the
Tivoli Gardens, Son Francisco.
Craig, of the Lingard Company, has a private
income of £12 per week for life.
Mdlle. Sarah Bernhardt took 150 pairs of gloves
with her for her American tour.
Lottie Wilmott is now in Wellington, N.Z. She
intends re-visiting Christchurch.
W. J. Florence is another of the American
actors who are a success in England.
Ketten did fairly at Wellington. He opened at
Auckland on the 24th for six nights.
“ The Vestal,” “ Heart and Crown,” and
“ Plato” are sole property.
Martina Simonson took a “ ben.” when the
Opera Company was in Dunedin, N.N.
The Lingards' company murdered the military
comedy of “Ours ” in Auckland, N.Z.
The Lydia Howarde company concluded their
Wellington. N.Z., season some days ago.
Miss Agnes Robertson (Mrs. Dion Boucicault),
is expected to pay Australia a visit in April.
It is said that Adelina Patti and Nioolini, for
their German tour, receive 9,000 marks —or £450—a
night.
Signor Paladini had a benefit in Dunedin, but it
was poorly attended. “ Norma ” was the opera repre-
sented.
Lingard says that when he has paid <£100 in
royalties, the copyright of “Stolen Kisses” for America
will be his.
Simonsen’s Opera Company gave a successful
sacred concert in Christchurch on Sunday evening,
January 23.
Lingard’s company cruelled “ The Hunchback ”
in Auckland. Mrs. Lmgard’s Julia was the only well-
played part.
Signora Anioinette Link and Miss Amy Sherwin
have been engaged by the American impessario,
Strakosch, for his opera tour.
Madame Simonsen benefitted in Dunedin. There
was a big bill, but with the exception of the dress circle,
the house was thinly attended.
A comic opera by Savill Clarke, called “ The
Phantom Cutlet, a gastronomic absurdity," has been
produced at the London Gaiety.
Herr Bandmann gave an afternoon Shakesperian
reading to the teachers and elder pupils of the Dunedin
public schools about a week ago.
Mr. B. T. Gillon. agent for the the Dramatic
Author’s Society in New Zealand, has been making it
rather lively for the bucolic amateur clubs.
The Dramatic critic of the Dunedin Star
couldn’t stand Louise Beandet’s Lady Macbeth, and
gave the Bandmann company “hide" all round.
Luscombe Searell endeavored to come to Sydney
from Auckland by the Ringorooma, but the trustee’s
solicitor in Lingard’a estate would not allow him.
A Dunedin critic has been catting up Walter
Re.' 'oh'-' Romeo and lago. Warm newspaper war
raging when the mail left, with Walter to the fore.
Mrs. Scott-Siddons is, we are told, a much
managed woman. She had no less than five managers
and acting managers during her season in Toronto.
Our Auckland correspondent writes that Ketten
opened at the Theatre Royal on the 24th to a fair house.
He plays for six nights. Grattan Riggs and company
follow.
Miss Adelaide Bowring (J. B. Steele’s wife) has
been playing with the Bandmann Company in Dunedin,
N.Z She left for England a few days ago by the
Taranaki.
Dunedinites could not appreciate the Band-
maun-Beaudet Company in “ Macbeth,” after seeing
Creswick as Macbetn, and Mis. Scott-Siddons as Lady
Macbeth.
J. J. Kennedy was married to Miss Lily May
(Hill), daughter of Mrs, Walter Hill, at Hokitika, N.Z.
Miss Clara Stephenson, and Miss Madge Herrick were
the bridesmaids.
John Hotson, who for many years travelled
with Barnum’s circus as “the living skeleton,” com-
xnitted suicide in New York recently. Bernhardt’s
visit is beginning to tell.
The Only Leon has re-appeared in Melbourne,
at St. George’s Hall, after his indisposition. Several
of our Opera House actors have also re-appeared after
their indisposition—to play.
Bronson Howard, author of the “Banker’s
Daughter,” “ Saratoga,” and other popular plays, was
married recently to Miss Alice Maude Culverwell,
daughter of a London physician.
The Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin, has a new ad-
vertising drop curtain. “ Thersites,” of the Saturday
Advertiser, says a more hideous, inartistic produc-
tion it would be hard to conceive.
The agent of Cole’s circus before leaving Inver-
cargill, N.Z., was made to pay over £10 for a paddock
used, which they took possession of without leave. The
amount was given to the hospital.
Theatrical circles in New York are just now very
much exercised and interested by the arrival of a troupe
of East India performers, comprising five Nautch girls
and ten jugglers and snake-charmers.
Miss Alice May is at the Globe Theatre, Lon-
don, where she is appearing with great success as
Simone in “ Les Mousqnetaires,” which has recently
taken the place of “Les Cloches de Comeville.”
Cole, the rich circus man, now in these colonies,
is financially backing Tom Keene, the new American
tragic star, of whom much is already said. Keene plays
•' King Lear," so we have the old man backed by King
Cole.
When a theatrical manager announces he is
coming with “ Three Hundred Wives,” and another
with “Drink,” for the public, it is no wonder that
clergymen should cry out against the immorality of the
stage.
Mick Tier, the Melbourne clown, has bought a
pig, to exhibit. The weight of the animal is said to be
fabulous. Micky and the “ exhibit " will go well toge-
ther. The last time he appeared as clown at a circus
they had to enlarge the ring.
Mr. Fred. De Belleville, late of the London
Comedy Company, has been appearing as Edwin Pair-
fax in Bartley Campbell’s drama of “Failfax" at the
Baldwin Theatre, San Francisco, under the manage-
ment of Mr. Thomas Maguire.
“Betsy,” after a run of more than a year and a
quarter, has been withdrawn from the Criterion stage
in L mdon, to make way for a piece called “ Where is
the Oat,” and Mr. Lytton ■Sothern has joined the com-
pany at the Prince of Wales Theatre.
MM. Lamargne and Boucherat are writing an
operetta in three acts—“Les Femmes d’Offenbach”—
in which the principal feminine types of Offenbach
will appear and sing couplets, the music of which will
be borrowed from Offenbach’s works.
The performance of the role of Richelieu by Mr.
Booth at the Princess’s, was most enthusiastically re-
ceived, the character of the Cardinal being portrayed,
according to the home papers, in a manner as yet
unsurpassed in reality and brilliancy.
Professor Swing is credited with the following:
—“ Without pausing to seek a philosophy for a new era
in this shape of art, let us simply confess that the pro-
fession of the actor can now point with pride to a large
group of men worthy of their art, and of a generous
public esteem.”
The next season of French performances at the
Gaiety Theatre, London, will commence on the 6th of
June, when the entire company of the Gymnase Theatre,
under its new management, joined for the occasion by
Mdlle. Sarah Bernhardt, will commence their series of
representations.
Mr. E. M‘Lean, with his Troubadours, returned
from a Queensland tour on Saturday. The trip was a
complete success; at the Towers, particularly, a big
biz. was done —a good four weeks’ run being secured.
The troupe take a spell in Sydney for a while, and are
likely to increase their number.
A classical drama, founded on Plutus’s Prayer
of the Captive, written by the late Lord Lytton, will be
brought out shortly by Mr. Hollingshead in London
and New York, Mr. J. M’Cullough taking the role of
Tyndarus in the latter city, and Mr. G. Rignold the
same character in the English metropolis.
A correspondent in a Dunedin paper thinks
Walter Reynolds’ lago ranks next to Macready’s, and
adds “ When I tell you that in my enthusiasm for the
Shakespearian stage I have built and been the sole pro-
prietor of two theatres, you will give me credit for at
least being interested in the stage and its people.”
“ Adrienne Lecouvreur,” in which Sarah Bern-
hardt made her debut at New York, was written by
Scribe and Lagonve, and has outlived several venera-
tions of theatre-goers. In fact, it is what we now call
a “star play,” in which all the acting is done by one
person, and which sacrifices everything to that end.
The New Zealand Times says :—“ The three
enterprising speculators—Sydney men of means—who
have arranged for Mr Ketten’s tour through the col-
ony, pay him £50 for each performance he gives, which
is proof positive of his rare abilities and the high esteem
he has gained among the music loving people of Aus-
tralia.”
It must be rather trying to be married to an
emotional actress, to have her clutching you by the
throat at 3 a.m., and shouting in a hoarse stage whisper,
“ Slave! didst lock the kitchen door ? The key—where
is’t, quick? I’ll strangle thee. Didst lay the milk
nitcher on the outer battlements ? Aye, me good lord,
I’m mad.”
“ Figaro ” hears that the intended visit of Miss
Emilie Melville (Mrs. Derby) has been indefinitely
postponed. At latest date she was the bright particular
star of the Bush-street Theatre, San Francisco, appear-
ing as Marie in the comic opera of “ Carnival of Rome.”
She was also underlined to perform in the comic
opera of “ Donna Juanita."
Lingard applied for his discharge from bank-
ruptcy in Auckland, but it was not given, Mr. Hesketh,
the trustee’s solicitor, opposing the application oa
account of something strange in connection with the
debtor’s estate having transpired. When the mail left,
Mr. and Mrs. Lingard, Mr. Searell, Mr. Owen West-
ford, and Mr. De Lias were being examined on oath.
Miss Carrie Godfrey, of Simonsen’s Opera Com-
pony, had a benefit at Christchurch, N.Z. The even-
ing’s entertainment was under the patronage of the
Australian Eleven, and fifteen silver cups were pre-
sented to W. S. Murdoch, in honour of the innings
against the Gentlemen of England; also to the highest
scorers and the bowlers with the best average in the
Christchurch match.
During his Invercargill, N.Z., season, some of
Herr Bandmann’s company happened to fall foul of the
local evening paper. Mr. Bandmann at one of the per-
formances, m replying to the attack, said that as one
who had been successful in every corner of the world he
was prepared to wager £100 that the company he had
then supporting him was a better one than had ever be-
fore appeared in New Zealaud.
A private letter from San Francisco of a late
date after giving a history of dramatic and musical
events in that city says.- “ There are a number of artists
now in this city almost passes for active service, and
pine to be once more in Australia, amongst them
Signora Bianchi, who by the way sang—and sang excel-
lent well —the contralto part in a sacred concert given
at the Metropalitan Temple in this city.
Edwin Browne had a benefit at Gympie on the
21st inst. He played Cassidy in a piece which he called
“ Our Girls,” but which everyone else knows to be
Byron’s “ Old Soldiers.” Lionel Leveret was played by
Mr. Inglis. A good house. Edwin will now be able to
vary the costume —one red shirt, and one pair mole
pants stuffed into a pair of Californian boots. He is a
deserving actor who has had hard luck in Australia.
“According to all accounts,” says the New
York Houe, “ the husband of Dickie Lingard is a bold,
bad man. The way he could “jump” towns
with his company, and leave hotels in the lurch
was a caution. As a grand finale ho has “ jumped ”
the company, and left it in durance for board
and minus five weeks’ salary. We don’t blame
him so much for this last jump; it was such a bad com-
pany.”
More about Miss Eva Sothern ! The young and
pretty daughter of the well-known actor, who is soon to
make her debut at the Gaiety Theatre, in London, is a
ward of the Court of Chancery, and an application is
now pending before the Master of the Rolls for his
sanction to allow the young lady, who is scarcely
eighteen, to follow the profession of an actress. Her
guardians offer no opposition to her strongly-expressed
desire to do so.
E. A. Sothern’s daughter, who is preparing for
the stage, will probably make her debut in New York.
Her father used to vow that she should never go upon
the stage. Sothem detests Bouoioault, and that it is
Boucicault who puts her on the stage must be a last
drop of bitterness in poor Sothem’s cup. The fact is
Mrs. Sothern, who has long been separated from her
husband, has made common cause against him with his
moet implacable enemy.
Mrs. Soott-Siddons and her company commenced
their Canadian tour at Toronto. The company, which
is under the management of H. J. Sargent and J. C.
Scanlan, comprises Luigi Lablache, George Thorne, L.
T. Rand, Walter Eytinge, Charles C. Jordan, Harry
Pearson, James Dunn, Edwin Cleary, Leo Cooper, P.
O. Savage, J. Greene, T. J. Kelly, and the Misses Isabel
Morris, Lily Stone, Miry Maddem, Josephine Bailey,
Virginia Bray, and Grace Bennett.
It is broadly stated that George Rignold is
about to come out to Australia in order to produce a
“ new classical drama ” by the poet Laureate. As this
drama, we understand, is based upon some phrase of
heathen idolatry, and that the hero is a priest in a long
gown and a tom beard, we don’t think George will
shine. We shall be always glad to welcome “ Henry
V.” of course, but somehow we can’t fancy George
without his tin breast-plate and his charger.
Signor Carlandi claims that Shakespeare’s
Roman dramas form a trilogy, in which the principal
object is not human passion, but the grand figure of
Rome. In “ Cariolanus,” we have Rome in her youth,
full of fierce energy and a prey to factions arising from
caste ; in “Julius Cesar,” the struggle for supremacy
between rival leaders menacing Rome's prosperity; and
in “ Anthony and Cleopatra,” personal egotism pre-
vails, and the sentiment of patriotism has almost died
away.
The following people have formed themselves
into a combination called the “California Specialty
and Dramatic Company,” and opened their season at
Piper’s Opera House, Virginia City :—Madame Zitella,
Men dames Lottie Elliott and Carrie Armstrong,
Messrs. John Gilbert, Cummings, Harrington, and Miss
Fanny Young (widow of the late G. W. Danielle, and
sister of the late comedian, Charles Young), Frank D.
Wade, late of Hick’s Georgia Minstrels, is business
manager.
The Simonson Opera season at Dunedin, N.Z.,
has closed and the company are now at Christchurch.
Financially, the Dunedin season was a bad one. On
the last night of the company’s appearance in that
town, Mr. Simonsen came to the footlights and made a
very peppery speech. He said Dunedin was the worst
shown town he ever was in. The people would flock to
indifferent amateur performances, but declined to give
moderate support to respectable companies. He vowed
he would never return.
On the first night of the “ Deal Boatman ” at
the Gaiety, at tire conclusion of the first act, all the
ladies were in tears. At the conclusion of the first act
of the “ Old Story,” all the ladies were in shrieks.
‘ He can, at will," said an enthusiastic Government
servant, who, in a tie of unblemished whiteness, looked
all over the critic, “ move to laughter and to tears.
It’s in-Fredulous.” He thinks that is a joke that
should be paid for. Well, we are willing to pay for it—
in strap-buckle currency.
Says the Dunedin Star, N.Z.—“ ‘ Macbeth ’
was produced at the Queen Theatre on Saturday even-
ing before an immense audience. A more disappointing
performance of the great tragedy, however, has perhaps
never before been witnessed in Dunedin. From the
principal actor downwards there was little to commend.
There were, of course, occasional redeeming points,
but, taken as a who e, Herr Bandmann’s Macbeth and
the company’s rendition of the other characters were
alike almost unmitigated failures.”
“ Whose fault is it ?” is the question put by an
American dramatic journal when announcing that
“Alice Oates and her husband, Mr. Watkins, have
separated owing to the latter’s jealousy.” Mrs. Oates,
on the death of Mr. Oates, married her agent, Mr.
Tracy Titus, (who was agent through Australia for
Miss Emilie Melville some four or five years ago), got a
divorce from him —then went for, and was wedded to
Watkins, who it appears has now had enough of con-
nubial bliss. As the American journal says, “ Whose
fault is it?”
A juvenile company lately occupied the boards
of the Academy of Music, Wellington. On one evening
“ The Ticket of Leave Man ’’ was presented, but the
performance, says one of the local papers “ was not
successful, the mounting being done scant justice to,
and the acting very uneven throughout. The ‘orches-
tra’ consisted of a pianist and cornet player, who, un-
less they previously came to some proper understanding
as to their harmony, would be consulting the wishes of
their auditors by omitting the musical interludes
altogether."
Says the San Francisco News Letter, “ Mr.
Rip Van Winkle MeQuade got left by some Australian
mtosi-managers. On his arrival here to take ship for
Australia, he was met by a telegram stating the melan-
choly fact that .Idios la Plata was their motto. Their
purse was at his command, but * there was nothing in
it.’ Ergo, Rip Fan Winkle don’t go to Australia, which
is lucky for him, inasmuch as the Australian public
would not accept old Frederick Barbarossa, the original
of the port, so much is the aforesaid public wedded to
the memory of Joe. Jefferson.
While being examined on oath in Auckland re
his bankruptcy, Lingard informed the trustee and
lawyers that the coat he wears as the Butterman in
“Our Boys” was given to him, by an uncle, who wore it
in Wellington’s time. He also stated in evidence that
he bad no house in New York, but there was one there
owned by Mrs. Lingard—bought by her ten years ago,
and paid for out of her own money. She bad friends
who left her a trifled It is now mortgaged to its full
value. It consists of a dwelling-house, situated in
East Thirty-seventh-street, and there is a mortgage of
£3000 or £4000 upon it. Mrs. Lingard has the deeds.
The house was bought in 1870 or 1871, and they lived in
it for a time. It was mortgaged when bought.
Lingard’s mother resides in it now, and Mrs. Lingard
pays the interest on it now.
The actor who was to have played Horatio to
Booth’s “Hamlet,” in London, fell through a trap at
the first rehearsal, and received injuries which resulted
in death. Booth said to a correspondent of the of a
daily newspaper, who had advised him not to let the
matter affect his spirits (that was before he had made
his appearance): “ Oh, no; I shall not. That would be
folly,” answered Mr. Booth. “ Besides," he resumed,
with a smile, *’ I’ve had so many good omens which
turned out to be exactly the reverse that it is quite
possible that a bad omen might work the other way,
and be the forerunner of everything pleasant. I shall
do my utmost, but you must remember I have the most
terrible of all obstacles to encounter, namely, an estab-
lished idol (Irving), a preconceived type of the
character, a favorite whose popularity has never been
equalled in the English annals, save by Gax-rick alone.”
A love drama, in which were hard-hearted
parents and a faithful couple and devoted friends, was
recently performed in real life in St. Augustine’s
Church, in Paris. The principals were M. Paul Le-
garde, the only son of a rich stock-broker, and Mdlle.
Jeanne Samary, the sympathetic actress of the Theatre
The pulpit stairs, and even the pulpit, were
filled with pretty actresses, who crowded to see the
bride. She entered, leaning on the arm of her father,
the Violoncellist Samary, and was beautifully dressed
in ivory satin and orange blossoms. Mile. Barretta, in
an opal-blue and silver toilet, was bridesmaid. None of
the bridegroom’s family were present. In the sacristy
the whole company of the Theatre Franfais defiled
before the bride, whom the actresses embraced, and the
actors saluted by kissing her hand. There were also at
the wedding Ludovic Halevy, Dumas fils, Sardou, and
other eminent literati. It is rare for French brides to
shed tears, hut Mile. Samary did.
Our correspondent at Auckland writes by the
lost mail: —The Lingards and company terminated
their season on Friday evening last (Jan. 12) with a
farewell benefit to Mrs. Lingard, and the public showed
their appreciation of the lady’s talent by filling the
theatre in every part long before the advertised time
for commencing the performance. The programme
submitted was “Bast Lynne” and the burlesque of
“Pluto.” During the evening Mr. Lingard made an
explanation respecting his “ bankruptcy” and “ Pina-
fore.” The effect of his speech was as follows
“ While in New York he received a telegram from Mr.
Harry Edwards, who is the agent of Mr. Coppin (of
Melbourne) in America. That telegram invited him
to play ‘ Pinafore’ in Australia, with the Lingards. He
came over 13,000 miles upon that engagement, and
played * Pinafore’ fully seven weeks before Mr. Wil-
liamson ever bought any rieht over it. He paid royalty
for the performance of ‘ Pinafore.’ at the rate of five
guineas a night. With Mr. DeLias alone he paid as
much as £90 as royalty. He left New Zealand to fight
Mr. Williamson at law upon the subject. There was a
threat to attach the Lingards for £100. He was pre-
pared to fight Mr. Williamson on this matter. He was
for a long time the sole proprietor of * Our Boys,’ but
everybody began playing it, and he was told by his
lawyers that he could not prevent that. In one case he
saw the right sold before his face for £10. It was a fact
that be had paid £260 in royalty for ‘ Our Boys,’ but it
was two years before it ever reached Mr. Byron. A
gentleman in Wellington named Gillon, who is an agent,
tapped him on the shoulder when he was leaving, and
threatened to take him off the boat unless he (Mr.
Lingard) paid £10. Paid the £10, but determined to
get it refunded. Brought an action for it when he
returned, and got judgment, hut he never got the £10."
Domestic Felicity.—A Fact.
His Mother-in-Law.
He was a member of the Jewish persuasion, aged 45,
and had taken unto himself a bride. He had returned
from his honeymoon at the Blue Mountains (Mount
Victoria), and was enjoying his first Sunday dinner in
Sydney with his bride and his mother-in-law. Maggie,
tire parlour and waiting maid was handed a choice plate
of fowl—part of the wing, breast, &c—to bring to the
bride, but she brought it to the mother. He continued
carving, and served a bit of the back and the whole of
the neck on to the second plate far his mother-in-law.
Having done so he looked np and said, “ I thought I
told you to give that plate to Mrs. M •, and you have
given it to Mrs. N .” The girl, who had raised the
plate containing the neck and back of the fowl, there-
upon threw it down with the elegant exclamation,
“ Serve it yourself, you old d 1,” and bounced out of
the room. While we are writing this, Maggie is cording
her boxes.
Bead this, Sir ’Enry,
The following appears in a New York journal:—“ The
Chief Secretary of New South Wales, the pioneer con-
vict Australian colony of Great Britain, wouldn’t let
Mr. Proctor lecture on Sunday. This is an argument in
favour of the religious discipline of transportation.”
PEPPER AND SALT.
It has, unfortunately, been our duty—our pain-
fnl duty, of course—to not untrequently have to allude
to the amount of rum embodied in the general spirit of
the Press of New South Wales. We have had, in our
ordinary journalistic course, to administer a delicate
little lesson to “ the paper that always is w#ong,” and
we have had occasion to “ sit upon ” a little comic print
that yet lingers in the city. We have done this in the
interests of civilization. It is a distressing thing for a
man of even moderate intelligence to be daily compelled
to read his morning news dished up in snch an eccentric
manner that his head reels even in the perusal of a pic-
nic par. In a city, of course, he has many papers to
choose from, and he may, at times, partially regain his
mental balance by the occasional perusal of a
moderately sober journal; but it is those unfor-
tunate men who, buried in a country town, are
weekly compelled to read the drivel of some of
our local Juniuses that are the most to be pitied.
The Mndgee people, in this respect, are singularly un-
fortunate. One of the local papers (we have no
knowledge of the other) is an appalling instance of
journalistic -‘joviality.” The latest issue that we
have received positively reels with glucose. In stating
this.lweimerelyjstate an unfortunate fact, which is borne
out by the evidence of the paper itself. We are first
informed that—“ The Australian (sic) Band, with over
fifty performers, arrived in Sydney this morning.”
Hardly have we recovered our breath after this crusher
than we are further staggered to hear that—“ Two
wreckers at Rockhampton (Vic.) (sic) have been fined
£lO3 each for appropriating uncustomed goods.” But
the bulls do not end with this indecorous geographical
blunder. Only a few paragraphs down we come upon
an item which actually swims in over-proof spirit.
The Independent says—“ 10,000 acres of the NMthern
Territory of South Australia will be given to applicants
for sugar-growing purposes. The first three applicants
got 10,000 each, eight others 5000, and ten others 3000.”
It is known to the initiated that the moment a man
mixes his figures he mixes his drinks—and mixed drinks
and x muddled intellect always go together. But eve*
this item do- , not end the series of crimes perpetrated
by these bucolic bunglers. They e\ on find it impossible to
spell the name of a world-famed actor correctly. They
say—“ Edward Southern, the celebrated comedian, is
dead.” And yet a considerable community like
that of Mudgee actually put up, week after
week, month after month, and year after year,
with such a soul-harrowing handbill. An amusing
trait in the affair is that not only do the Mudgee people
apparently endure with patience this puerile placard,
but that the feeble folk who weekly inflict it upon
humanity evidently consider themselves blessed with
abilities of considerable calibre. For, in providing
their few score of readers with fiction, instead of re-
printing some standard work that is uncopyrighted, or
engaging the services of a practised story-writer, the
editor, or label-writer of the yiaper, has written—or is
writing—a tale in it. This extraordinary effort to
destroy the grammatical construction of the English
language we have already held up to the shrieking
derision of our readers, and we have now, our duty
being accomplished, nothing further to do with the
Mudgee Independent than to hand it over to its con-
genial haven —the nearest butcher’s.
When a telegraph tricycle, a water-cart, and
the tram take possession of Oxford-street, and paddle
up abreast, there are enough dams manufactured by
the ’bus drivers behind to hold sufficient water to
supply this city for 127 years. The earnest attention
of Mr. M‘Elhone is drawn to this fact, because he is an
experienced man in this line.
The Eev. Charles Clarke said he never read to
a more intelligent audience than a Sydney one, and
astronomer Proctor says the interest manifested in his
abstruse science, and the surprising knowledge of it
possessed by Australians, can only be sufficiently
appreciated by one who has been amongst these people.
But Arthur Scratchley says we are a lot of bushrangers.
Now, this is mean of Arthur, because he might have
barred one. For three nights a calm-faced, grey-haired
old man sat oat Arthur’s show to the bitter end, “ when
all but him had fled” (as Mrs. Hemans puts it), and
yet Arthur lumps him in the bushranging gang the
same as the rest of us. Mr. Scratchley felt flattered by
this old grey-headed villain’s appreciation of Mother
Brown’s chat, as he imagined ; but I’U spoil Arthur’s
say in one act. The calm-faced man was as deaf as a
post; he had a free pass for the three nights, and being
a miserly old rascal, he sat out the show just to save
his candles. Ta-ta, Arthur. Call and see ns again.
Your bright smile haunts me still.
The girl who has seen Ketten doesn't thump
the piano now as she did of yore. I met her (at
least one of her) the other night at a pleasure (?) party,
and she was asked to “favor the company.” The
pianist was not led over to the box this time, but
walked across the room in a dreamy sort of way, as if
she had just found religion, and seating herself gently
down, began to take stock of the ceiling. Presently she
hitched up her aft skirts (Ketten used to flop his claw-
hammer tails, but she, poor thing, of course, couldn’t)
and ran her fingers up and down the keys. The trouble
then began. The soft pedal was down, a few plaintive
chords struck, and I could have sworn she was trying
either to stand on her cranium, or to crawl head first
into the piano. Presently she got up to the topmost
treble, and then her head turned sideways, her form
began to quiver, and her eyes began to roll, and
altogether she looked about as comfortable as if she
had just swallowed a small spring mattrass. It was
quite a relief when she got hack to the middle again,
and gave a few vigorous dabs to prepare for the allegro
presto. What she did with this no one could possibly
describe and live. Her left hand banged the bass, and
her right hand punished the other end in a style that
caused us all to mentally sympathise with the un-
fortunate man who married her and came home late.
Her feet plunged in and out, and kicked away at
those pedals like a circus mule at a sick nigger; her
head was thrown back, and her mouth opened so wide,
that a nervous young man behind got up and left,
fearing she was about to swallow him ; the old piano
rocked and reeled, and groaned and swore; but the
more it swore the more she banged, and when she at
last let up and retired exhausted, there was not one in
the room who didn’t feel as if he had just been picked
off a shipwreck. It was, indeed, lucky the piece was
only fourteen pages long, for the walls were beginning
to gape away from the ceiling, and had there been
another page we would all have suffered as the Philis-
tines did from the blind Samson.
Said the meek and the mild Dr. B. :—“ There
are only two respectable papers in this colony worth
reading, and these two are the Distress and The Bul-
lettin.” We thank our facetious friend for his un-
bounded applause; hut as the man at the Wagg«
door sent a!i the “ ads.” to the Distress, we think we
have paid a good price for being admitted into good
society—as the crow said when he was baked in a pie
with the pigeons. By the way, who was the clerical
gentleman that refused the Press tickets for a little
“ shivoo ” because, as he politely observed, he “ wanted
no sinners.” If none but the saints had attended, his
audience would have been as thin as some people’s
charity. “He that is without sin, let him cast the first
stone.” (This is pot original.)
Eheit ! How rats desert a sinking ship, and
how onr bosom friends skip off in the hour of need!
Dr. Basto, the gallant and gay, came to grief last week
over a paltry 90s. cheque, whose only fault was its utter
worthlessness; and finding the time for help had come,
he called despairingly on his trusted friends—Mr. Secre-
tary Lambton, Mr. Hickey, of Government House; and
Sir Henry Parkes, K C.M.G.—but never a one pat forth
a hand ora" pitch " to help him.
“ Whilst Fortune stays, our friends how staunch and
true?
When she departs—farewell the faithless crew!”
And so Dr. Basto, the bosom friend of a K.C.M.G., and
of a patent medicine man also, “went up” for two
years. Sic transit gloria mundi. Put not your faith in
Premiers.
Eccentric people, by the way, seem to be getting
rather plentiful. Last Monday a gentleman, having
the appearance of being either a conference delegate or
a circus proprietor, walked into Gus Huenerbein’s new
pianoforte warehouse and carelessly asked : “ Aw ! bet
you a good—eh?-stock of pianos for sale?" “The
best in Sydney, sir,” said ’Gus. “ Aw ! and— eh—the
prices ?” “ All prices, sir. Some magnificent instru-
ments at £7s—used to cost £120.” “Aw!— and they
are of an assorted quality, I presoom ?’* “ Yes, sir, by


TUuthner, Lipp. Schreidmeyer, and.all the greatest
lakers.” “ Aw! very good. Here is my kawrd, and—
will you kindly send me up three dozen of your as-
sorted best to my private house this afternoon ?” 'Gus
qid send, but it was for a policeman; and the man in
blue caught the man in black at another place, order-
P_ a gross-and-a-half of best cut-under buggies. He
evidently had great expectations at the time; but
man proposes—and Read's Hotel disposes.
According, to last Friday’s Evening Paper
Napkin, “ the outside palings of the Woolloomooloo
baths require to be raised for decency’s sake, as from
the upper decks of steamers bathers can he plainly
seen." “ Decency ” is probably the name of the new
reporter, and it is to be regretted the spotless innocence
of any member of his immaculate journal should be
tempted; but how would it act if the St. Anthonies on
board the steamers didn’t look ? Titus says, “To the
■nure all things are pure,” but of course Titus never
peeped over the baths at Woolloomooloo.
Pretty Prissy, round at Bowden’s, picked up a
memorandum book in the bar on Saturday night, and,
as it evidently belongs to a Member of Parliament, she
is anxious to get it out of the house as soon as possible.
We reprint the first leaf in hopes the owner, who is
well known, will release his property, and save further
trouble. Here it is :
Notes for mt Furst Weak’s Guide In Parleyment.
1. Tn mek a speach.
2. Tu muve thet a noo orficer he appinted tu keap
the flies orf the frozen beaf wich goes to englind.
3. Tu do mv damest tu get the sed orfls for my hoy,
Jorge Enry.
I. Tu adjertait fur too noo bridges, a water tank,
an a publik skool fur my electurit; the saim
bein mutch wanted thereto
5. Tu see what Chizelem, Doodlem, en Ko. wil
stand ef they gits the koutraot.
6. Tn mek another speach on sumthin.
7. Tn see what sum hard-up newspapir devil wil
rite wun out in a big hand fur.
8. Tu muve thet awl offlshil salaries he kut down
wun harf, an the muney saved be spent in moar
kontrakts.
9. Tu second every moshin fur adjummint.
10. Tu bring in a Toil tu Suppress thet dam Bulletin,
as makes gaim, so tu speek, ov “the lord’s
Anointed.” (N.B. Tu look up an see ef this is in
Shakespeer or the bibil.)
11. Tu extend free passes tu awl members fur evory-
whare. an to open moar railways, an the
refreshmints tu he free ov charge, &c.
12. Tn hev myself put on the ouse’s refresh com-
mittee.
13. Tn arsk severil questyins about anythink.
14. Tu alwais vote aginst eny moshin ov thet dem
bookaning.
“ Those whom the gods love die young.”
piddington is 67, if he is a day. The gods evidently
don’t think much of Pid; but the Civil Service do, anil
would turn out to a man to-day—to bury him.
Seven thousand two hundred and twenty-seven
persons of various sexes were engaged one day last
week endeavouring to pull down the north wall of the
old Egyptian Hall. If they had let the wall alone it
would have fallen down of its own accord the very first
time a dozen or so ol respectable citizens were near
enough to be killed by it; but when the thing was made
compulsory the wall seemed to say to itself, it be
hanged if it budge an inch for anyone. The odd twenty-
seven men were on top of the opposite house hauling
away like mad ou a ship’s hawser, and the other 7200
stood down in the street bossing the job, and yelling
out more orders than the jackass contractors who
started the Tower of Babel. The man with the white
hat said they hadn’t enough purchase, and the man
with the new shirt said they had too much fulcrum ;
the man with the black hat called out, “ Pull all on yer
when I sez go,” and the old lady in the print frock said
she could “ jest go up and haul the shirt orf that lot of
fools herself.” Meantime the twenty-seven men on the
roof pulled till they turned green in the face, but the
wall merely nodded occasionally, just to draw them out
as it were. Presently a man who had an engineering
look about him walked underneath and began to look
for a weak pomt, and while he was thus engaged, the
wall playfully dropped half a brick on him. In an
instant he shot out into the street and overturned a
lady carrying a very clean and interesting poodle.
The lady’s husband immediately turned hack
and hit the first man he came to; the party
returned the blow: a scuffle ensued, two more
innocent persons got a stray smack, and in a
few seconds the fight became nice and sociable.
The first man then got up a little confused, and trod on
a sore-eyed dog, who promptly awoke and seized
another party’s legs, upon which a bystander walked up
and kicked the dog’s ribs in. A man in bed-tick pants
now came along and said he’d kick any man who treated
a dog like that, upon which a totally distinct row ensued,
during which the sore-eyed dog fastened on to the bed-
tick pants, and ripped them up from Dan to Beersheba.
The whole street was now as contused as if a second
Isandula was being fought therein, when suddenly the
wall toppled over, and when the smoke cleared away
the whole of the 7200 walked off —perfectly satisfied in
their own minds that only for their timely aid and
valuable advice that wall would have stood till the Day
of Judgment.
Whit we want to know now is, who was the
passenger Hanlan had in his boat when he pulled
Trickett. There is a growing suspicion that there was
someone or something with him at the time, and if the
party or it will only send on reliable information either
will hear of something to advantage. A similar cir-
cumstance seems to have happened at the late Balmain
regatta. The Glebe Pointers assert there was too much
“rush” in the Mercantile Junior’s boat to suit them ;
and, besides, our harbour is hardly wide enough for a
Glebe Point crew to pull in. As it was, the Mercantiles
actually scraped threepennorth of paint off the Pointers
stern, and, of course, through this the latter lost the
race.
Dear Ex-koe —just a friendly word in your ear.
■ Christmas comes but once a year, we know, but surely
by this time you have had your fill of it. On Friday
last you published an exceedingly droll story about law-
yers Cockburn and Jeffrey and a snuff-box (the original
of which, by the way, is to be found on the sculptured
tomb of Shalmanezzer), and on the very next Saturday
you reprint the same bald-headed old yarn under the
title of “A Particular Girl.” Now where’s the “goak.”
or rather, where’s the girl, and what was she so deuced
particular over ? Is she the girl who wouldn’t sleep in
the front room because the moon used to peep therein,
and someone said there was a man in it? oris she the
girl who, when Proctor wished to show her Venus, said
she didn’t care to look upon any of her sex who dressed
in the highly unbecoming manner Mias Venus did? or
is she that other young lady who was so fearfully correct
that she refused to walk across a potato field because she
had heard potatoes sometimes had eyes ? And then
again, what in thunder has she got to do with old Cock-
burn’s snuff-box ? Ah ! my dear Ker-istian friend, it is
sad indeed indeed to see one so gifted, and yet so young,
falling a victim to the cursed bowl. Pause, ere it is too
late; retrace your steps, and join the “ ker-rystal
spring,” and carry flags, and wear mouldy old clothes,
and George I. hats, and sing temperance ’ims with the
rested of the holy brethren. Entrance, 2s. 6d.
It was told to a Bulletin man, as he stood
under the verandah of the Gaiety Theatre, while the
people were frantically puffing at cigarettes, during the
entr’acte. It don’t matter who told him, or when the
confidence occurred: suffice it to say that the narrative
i* quite as true as most things that appear in uews-
’'ipcrs nowadays—which is saying a good deal. “ Yes,"
he begau, “ I dropped into a bit of bad luck. I might
say a piece of d but no: The Bulletin, as lam
aware, is a journal that does not admit forcible Saxon
into its columns. No matter. I arrived in Melbourne
from the Cape, with a comfortable little pile—some
£6OOO in all. At that time the match was on the tapis
between Abe Hicken and Larry Foley. In an evil hour
I got introduced to Abe. and he invited me to go and
see him. In a more evil hour I went. I found Abe
looking magnificent—being in a fine glow after his bath.
He was practising as I entered; and, alas! that was the
fatal picture that did all the mischief. He had a great
india-rubber air-ball suspended from the ceiling, at
wb'ch he was pounding away at a great rate. ‘ Bang!’
and up the thing would fly to the roof. Then ho cried.
There—that’s in his right peeper.’ (Bang!) ‘That’s
on his nose.’ (Bang! bang! bang!) ‘That’s killed
him.” Well, I got fascinated with this man, and
commenced to back him. The more I saw him pound
away at the air ball, the more I got fascinated, and the
j bigger lemons I went in. One morning he said to me,
“Johnny, it’s the biggest moral under the sun. Put
your house on it.” With these words he pitched the air
ball such a “ oner ” that I immediately tore down town,
sold my place by private contract, and piled on the
money. Next morning I saw him again, and he said,
“Johnny, that little un won’t stand up before me two
rounds” —then he went into the air ball—“there, you
see —that’s his collar-bone broken. Don’t you let your
money be idle. Diamonds are ajl.very well, but not to
wear when you can double the pride-of ’em by cramming
it on to a certainty.” The next day saw me ring-less,
and outside Mace’s offering a point above the quoted
odds to get the money on. ****** Jt W as no
good saying anything. When he was carried back to
Melbourne, looking for all the world like the front of a
small butcher’s shop, the thing was done. When I left
Melbourne that night I had to borrow fifty pounds
to make a start again. That’s, let’s see, eighteen
months ago. Well, I’ve made a bit of money since
then, you bet. And I’ve learnt a lesson, too. That is
never to put money on a man whose physique has
deteriorated through fast living—even hacked up by any
amount of confidence and a big air-ball. Let’s go and
have a drink."
The railway opening to Albury evidently has its
fascinations for some people. So far as we are con-
cerned. we take a vivid interest in the Melbourne over-
land route, inasmuch as it gives us a pleasant conun-
drum to solve every Sunday as to how many Bulletins
are “ snavelled ”in transit to the Southern city. This,
however, is a mere trifle, hut where the joke comes in is
here—here, in a delicious item at which the general
public will unctuously smack its lips. Href, then, there
was a youth who yearned to behold Albury. So he
went and endeavoured to purchase a ticket at the adver-
tised price. He was, however, told, that all the tickets
had been disposed of to a certain broker of this city.
Well, on receipt of this intelligence, he went to the
broker to invest in a ticket. The broker was perfectly
willing to sell him a ticket, but requested to be fur-
nished with £2 2s. before handing over the required pass.
This young man informed the broker that he was dis-
tantly related to Melville, on which he was successful
in getting the pass for £1 6s. He now says that if there
is anything he sighs for it is to be a broker: and that
when the next public demonstration is about to take
place he will hire a box in in a coal-cellar, and label it,
“ Financial Broker.” He then considers that he will
get gradually and deliberately wealthy. Y.
MELBOURNE JINKS.
(By Shanghai.)
Our dear old lady, the Argus, is going to be
touched up for a few thou, by Josiah Pickersgill, Golds-
brough’s funny man, because that ancient dame was
rash enough to state that the liquors sold at Jos’s
Exhibition bar were a fraud. I am a teetotaller myself,
so can’t speak from experience, but
Marcus Clarke and Day id Blair have fallen out
again, and it is said that some nice things will be said
by them of one another in print. It is a pity that
people who don’t always wear clean linen should wash
it in public. One does not care about seeing private
garments hung up to dry in the backyard clothes-line,
but to see them washed would be Psha!
It is too oft true that a prophet hath no honour
in his own country. This has been illustrated here
recently. We have among us a young gentleman by
name of Cummings, who is an artist, but the authorities
on the Australasian Sketcher couldn’t see it. Yet
the Graphic has accepted a series of sketches of his,
illustrating life in the bush, and they are really good, as
you can see for yourself by looking at the Graphic of
two or three weeks back.
Eumours are rife in our literary circles. De-
partures of noted ones are talked about. It is whispered
that if he does not get the Librarianship at the Public
Library, Marcus Clarke intends taking up his bed and
wa'king, shaking, however, the dust off his feet before
doing so. Then it is also said that Tom Carrington, our
comic artist, who, by the way, is nowhere outside the
caricaturing business, is going to seek new fields in the
old country. But I fancy Tom will find he is better off
here, where in his line there is little or no competition.
I heard, among some old hands blest with the
good things of this world, a lively discussion the other
evening. The old fellows—some of them “ gummies "
—a sheepish expression—gloated over the subject, viz.,
the relative wealth of our millionaires. After a heated
argument, at which whisky did good service, they—
these possessors of years of coin—came to the conclu-
sion that James Tyson was the wealthiest man in Aus-
tralia, because they knew his yearly income was over a
quarter of a million; W. J. Clarke’s was set down at
£140.000; Joe Clarke’s at £160,000; and Money Miller’s
at £200,000 per annum. Doesn’t it make you sick to read
this?
Gresley Lukin is here, with a view, it is said, of
starting a new paper. That there is room for an able,
independent journal no sensible person doubts ; but then
Lukin will have to cease being shepherded about by
“ outrunners ” of our present journals. The thoughtful
portion of the people of this colony is thoroughly sick
of the partisan manner in which the Argus and Age
support men and “ slangwhang ” one another. But
there is some hope that this will cease soon, as it is
said Go wen Evans, of the Argus, is going home shortly,
and his exodus will put a stop to the sublime influence
of the Melbourne Club on the politics of what should be
our leading political authority.
The once-existent Victoria Club, now the Coffe®
Palace, ably maintains its old appellation of “ The BiriJ
Cage.” It is now the residence of visitors, male an“
female, hailing chiefly from your city, where ceife e
palaces reign rampant. The pleasant manner in
which the sexes meet and mix in conversation and acts
of politeness is quite refreshing to watch, more par-
ticularly if one is not observed, as he need not be from,
say, the Argus office just opposite. But I have heard
that an individual who wears an eye-glass and is some-
body among the cultured circle of the great paper, has
been seen relishing the scene of young ladies in-
terestingly conversing with young swells on the
verandah.
Jealousy is not necessarily limited to women, at
least in this place, for we have a ceaseless fit of it voing
on among our teachers and performers of music. This
has been particularly the case in reference to Kowalski.
Because the public throng to his weekly piano recitals,
and the Press praise him as a pianist of a high order,
his professional brethren are sorely wrath. They (or
rather some of them) cannot understand “how he has
got at” the Press,” for “ after all he is only a so-and-so
musician.” I don’t profess to say Kowalski is in the
first rank of pianoforte players, but he is better than
most of our “ strummers,” and, besides, he is a man of
no small literary attainments, as the fact of his being a
correspondent of Figaro proves.
We have had a lady visitor from your city (the
daughter of a well-known official), who quite set the
fashion — after her own ideal — and became “the ob-
served of all observers ” wherever she presented herself.
And certainly, if an outre get-up meant such a distinc-
tion, hers did. Remarkable in appearance she certainly
was—being stont in build, full in development, broad
of shoulder. She wore a skirt scarce reaching her
ankles—but her feet were not bad—a body ;the dress
one) a.-: transparent almost as nature, and a hat which
did .lot set off or tone down the somewhat square build
of a pretty face. But she attracted attention—which,
after all is the alpha and onieqa of a woman’s dressing
nowadays; and she was assiduously waited upon by a
bnck connected with one of our reviews—a great
leveller of women’s hearts and purses. I forgot to
mention that her father was of course in attendance,
and that the young lady sings well, though boisterously.
There can be no doubt that the Irish question,
as it is called, is full of sound and fury, even if signify-
ing nothing. It is terrifying to contemplate to what
extremes it may lead excitable individuals of Hibernian
blood if it is not smoothed down or wiped out ere long.
Even in this indifferently selfish city there have been
outbursts of no common order. At one club recently
the writer of a strong anti-Irish article was threatened
with annihilation by a descendent of The O’Nelly;
while at another—the habitation of the wealthy oi
polloi —located at the east end of Collins-street, matters
went still further. Hot words resolved themselves
into fierce blows, andj two members of our so-called oi
aristoi —the one, a Scotchman, known as a remarkably
successful card-player; the other, a “ brewing ” Irish-
man, claiming descent from the original Brian Born—
were present. Well, these gentlemen fell out on the
merits of the much vexed question and then “ closed ” —
as the P.R. slang has it—the result being that the irate
and patriotic Hibernian retired from the contest with
discoloured optics, while the Scotchman, some twenty
years, his junior, had not even his moustache, of luxu-
riant growth disturbed. The outcome of this fracas
will, I am told, be a meeting of the wiseacres and purse-
bags of the dernier ressort, who must censure the con-
duct of the belligerents.
Literary amenities are the order of the day. It
is perfectly refreshing to read them. Thev quite carry
out the eloquent views of dear Doctor Watts about
little dogs being made to bark and bite. For instance,
Marcus Clarke translated for the Leader the tale of
“ The Lifted Veil ” of George Elliot’s, published in a
French journal, and said to be her last. The Argus,
through a convenient correspondent, immediately
jumps up, proves that the story in question was pub-
lished in 1859. The Daily Telegraph, through another
correspondent, recognised as David Blair—who styles
himself “ A Literary Detective,” rushes to the fray,
and attacks Clarke as being unfit for the position of
librarian of the Public Library, etc. Clarke, as
“ Atticus,” is the Leader of this week, retorts that as
spiteful sallies are in fashion he might just as well
draw attention to the fact that the “London Town
Talk,” which the Argus of the 18th December last
published, is verbatim what a French journal of the 4th
November last, published under the heading of
“London Jottings,” and I may here add that the Leeds
Mercury published the same trash. So goes the ball
around—verily albeit viciously. All this is only
another proof of what bitter feelings exist among our
literary brethren simply because there are partisan
papers led by partisan noodles holding the reins of
power. Would that it were not so.
MELBOURNE FOLLIES.
By the Children ,of the Sun.)
Pantomimes still prevail.
Another Sydney batch of ladies at the Inter-
national.
“We won’t go home till morning.’’ Encore !
Kowalski 1
What has become of that violin ? and what has
become of Ortori ?
“The Song of the Stage,” in Punch of the
27th, is worth reading.
Infantile dexterity at the Bijou. “ Pro-digious !”
says G. B. W. “ Proh-pudor!” say we.
* Some mutton-headed muffs have gone mad over
the majestic in the “ Tambour Major ” militaries.
Yerdi’s benefit concert was a grand success. It
was termed a “ banquet of music,” and rightly so.
A lady, who might rival Sara Bernhardt in
sparseness, blocked it the other day in Collins-street.
Lady Manning and her daughter were amongst
the throng at the International the other Saturday
afternoon.
The Burke and Wills monument is said to be
the dingiest in the world. We suppose the Pyramids
of Egypt are excepted.
Why does the Exhibition organ resemble an
obtuse old ass ? Because it requires a deal of blow to
make it go. This, by our own Joubert.
The Australasian critic sees no harm in the
Baby burlesque at the Bijou. Has the doctor been
sucking any “ eleemosynary ginger” lately ?
The Melbourne Athenaeum has actually pur-
chased two copies of “Endymion!” The Committee
are rubbing their eyes : they will soon wake up.
The leading and other pianists of Melbourne are
gradually becoming “ Kowalskied,” i. e., adopting the
manner and style of the great “ talented and genial.”
Annis Montague has proved herself to be more
than a mere opera-boulfe artiste. In “ Sonnambula ”
and “Norma” she would create a furore in Melbourne.
Marcus’ mistake made David “roar.” So the
latter said in a letter to the Daily Telegraph. We
suppose the Blair meant to say that he laughed. We
smirked.
The Parliament Houses are to be finished.
Tenders have been sent in, and, in a few years, the
finest and most imposing edifice in Australia will be
completed.
Howitz has a caricatured doll, after JMarx’ won-
derful head, in Nicholson and Ascherberg’s window.
Howitz has called it Shylock, but it is not “ the Jew
that Shakspeare drew.”
“ A XIXth century Paradise” is the title of a
paper that fills over five columns of last Saturday’s
Age. It is the story of a rajah who built a garden and
surrounded it by a high wall, and placed therein two
babies of assorted sexes, the purport being to discover
the origin of language. The children remained in the
“ Paradise” for 26 years. The writer of the paper is
Ross Cox, better known as the author of “ M or N”
papers, when the Sketcher was in its salad days.
“ Have you seen tbe kitchen trophy” is becom-
ing as commonplace a term as the Sydney query,
“ Have you seen our harbor?” Of course the latter is
something to look at —the other is not.
It has overhanging, interlacing leaves. It is an
avenue of gracefully-growing trees, with chequered
lights, cool in + he warmest noontide, and shady when
the sun is at its zenith. It is called "The Lovers*
Walk,” Eitzroy Gardens.
Coppin, comedian, philanthropist, and politician
is a candidate for the electorate of East Melbourne-
We wish you luck, ancient George; you are the only
man that can understand the managerial enquiry—
“What is the state of the House ?”
Vale is dead upon “ sweeps,” and has ordered
the police to do all they can to “ suppress the gambling
mania wherever practicable." Perhaps if Vale were
“ suppressed,” then there would be one sweep (but
we “ suppress ” the rest). Nemesis.
Charley Marriott is an eccentric Bohemian, but
the cleverest draughtsman in Melbourne. He wears
long white curls, a pith hat, a nose, an eye, and a
swagger. Charley is a cousin of the late Albert Smith,
the novelist, and is the original “ Jack Johnson.”
Five thousand cigars, the only of their kind,
made specially to the order of a Rothschild, lately de-
ceased, found their way to Melbourne, and were pur-
chased by Sir Salmon Wilson at £54 a thousand, to be
held in readiness for the reception of the Prince of
Wales. The Prince didn’t come and Sir Salmon fumes.
The following story comes apropos of the anti-
Jewish agitation now prevailing in Germany. During
the visit of H.R.H. Prince Alfred to Sydney, some
years ago, a talented young musician of the Hebrew
race (Alfred Anderson, now deceased) was a constant
visitor at Government House, invited thither by the
Prince, who is a musical enthusiast. The Earl of
Belmore, who was then Governor of N.S.W., in his vice-
regal capacity drew the attention of his royal guest to
the fact that his portegd was a Jew. “ Your Excel-
lency,” said the Prince, “ my mother has the greatest
respect for the followers of the Hebrew faith.” The
Earl received his snubbing with grace.
SOME SOLID FACTS.
New York has 9000 public houses.
Forty-seven coal mines in Ireland.
Milan has a cremation furnace and jars prepared
for ashes.
The population of the earth is estimated at
834,707,600.
Nature never sells its cast-oif raiment to an old
clothes man.
An English shoemaker makes boots to cure bow-
legged children.
About 100,000 watches are sold every month in
the United States.
The transport of American mails cost over
£4,000,000 last year.
More work and less worry would bring happiness
to many a wasted life.
Over one third of the population of the earth is
to be found in Europe.
A Frenchman has discovered that cabbage is an
antidote to drunkenness.
The military reserve of the United States reaches
6,500,000 able-bodied men.
At Courneuve, Paris, General Schramm, aged
91, was robbed of £24,000 while asleep.
Fifteen hundred Welsh miners have left their
homes for Utah, converts to Mormonism.
A dog at St. Thomas, Canada, never barks on
Sunday, but accompanies his master to church.
Wesley wrote about 6,000 hymns, of which not
above thirty have passed into general hymnology.
Of the forty-five field marshals of Eussia since
1700, only two could claim a purely Russian descent.
A brass band composed of 1300 members sere-
naded the Emperor William at Berlin the other day.
It is said that the English language is the most
widely spoken, and the moat broadly, too, it might be
added.
The mainspring of Italian music in the 18th
century, says a recent writer, was the exclusive and
passionate worship of the human voice.
A slang dictionary, containing words in use
among the thieves of London, Paris and New York, has
been issued from the American Press.
The coloured men of America and the American
Indians are intermarrying. The progeny is said to
combine the excellences of both races with the faults of
neither.
A writer in one of the English reviews says that
that “ our treatment of China seems to be on the whole
the most criminal part of our public action during the
last half century.”
Longfellow can take a worthless sheet of paper
and by writing a poem on it make it worth £10. That’s
genius. Vanderbilt can write fewer words on a similar
sheet and make it worth £10,000,000. That’s capital.
Canada has 30 paper mills, 14 of which are in
Ontario, 15 in Quebec and one in New Brunswick. They
are capable of producing 52 tons every 24 hours, and
make principally wrapping, manila, news and book
paper.
General Scott, the father of the Duchess of
Portland and Viscountess Canning, who is said to have
cleared £200,000 by scientific play at whist, adhered
strictly to a regimen of barley-water before sitting down
to play.
A San Francisco paper publishes a list of twenty-
five murders committed in that eity-within a year, and
points out that not one of the murderers has yet been
brought to justice. The ghastly roll is published with
a strong and well-merited appeal to the public of the
city to stay the awful epidemic of crime.
It appears to be an ascertained fact from
Professor Monassein’s experiments that the relative,
and even the absolute, circumference of chest is
greater amongst singers than amongst those who do
not sing, and that it increases with the growth and age
of the singer. The professor even says that singing
may be placed physically as the antithesis of drinking
spirituous liquors ; the latter hinders, while the former
promotes the vitalization of the blood, and consequently
the nourishment of the system.
The inventive genius of a Scotchman has, if we
are to believe the Scotch papers to hand, found a way
to accomplish something which man has never before
dreamed of doing—namely, calming the stormy sea.
Mr. Shields, of Perth, has invented a way of stilling the
waves of the ocean, and put it into successful operation.
He sinks bottles filled with oil; the bottles are opened
by a process devised by the inventor, and the oil,
ascending to the surface, stills the waves, thus reducing
the proverb about “ pouring oil on the troubled waters ”
to practice. The invention has been tested at Peter-
head with, it is said, amazing success. The Scotch
papers are full of it.
The habit of self-control is but the accumula-
tion of continued acts of self-denial for a worthy
object; it is but the repeated authority of the reason
over the impulses, of the judgment over the inclina-
tions, of the sense of duty over the desires. He who
has acquired this habit, who can govern himself intelli-
gently, without painful effort, and without any fear of
revolt from his appetites and passions, has within him
the source of all real power and of all true happiness.
The force and energy which he has put forth day by day
and hour by hour is not exhausted, nor even diminished ;
on the contrary, it has increased by use, and has become
stronger and keener by exercise; and, although it has
already completed its work in the past, it is still his
true and powerful weapon for future conflicts in higher
regions.
A SHORT TALE OF THE MAYOR.
This song to Sydney Aldermen
Is certainly belongin’;
It was a scorcher, and they were
All longin’ for a “loug’un.”
So ups and sez the gallant Deane
(Of builders all the pride),
“ Let’s have the keys, my noble Mayor—
I will not be Deane-ied.”
“Yes,” cried O’Connor, “ my poor throat
Is dry, sirs, you believe;
And for the cellar-key, I am
A bit on the key-vive."
“By George,” the valiant draper said,
“ I’d like a drop of sherry;
To lock the liquor up's a dodge
That’s very Hordern-ary.
His Worship said, " To give the key
My pledge, sirs, I’d be losing;
The Town Hall, really, I must bar
From using for your boosing.
“ I do not want, old chaps, to be
The cause of any ‘beaker;’
I’d risk a bicker ’fore I’d see
A beaker filled with lee-quor.”
There came a fearful “ barney” now.
And some began to scoff;
Ten Aldermen exploded then.
And Beare began to froth.
“ I want some nicely foaming ale,”
Said Green, with rage all blue;
“ If I don’t get a head on it.
I’ll put a head on you.”
“ The key,” replied the scornful mayor,
“ Will be kept in my pocket,
“ And further—for the cellar door.
I’ll get a chain and lock-it.”
Says Butcher—“ Sir, this is not meat,”
And Meeks said, with a pout,
“ The more we holloa, less you seem
To be inclined to * shout!’ ”
So then they went across the street.
For a liquor full a ton,
And drank most dire confusion to
Each semi-demi John.
So ended this small episode,
’Twas drowned in liquor rare.
So ends, so far as we’re concerned.
This short tale of a mayor.
Mr. Hanley Bennett, ex-M.P., is now resting
after his legislative labours, and is diligently studying
works of a classical nature. —Tamworth Torchlight.
In a lovely rustic vale,
Where the Tamworth breeze is blowing.
Lives a most distinguished male.
To whom much his country’s owing.
His classic name is Hanley,
And in a shady nook
He reads—the works of Stanley F
No !—a Mavor’s spelling hook.


Public Companies
IOMMEECIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
' SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £575,000. Eeserve Fond, £580,000.
Directors :
Bichard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office— George-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Branches in New South Wales. —Adelong, Albury,
Armidale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Bernina, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Co bar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Cootamun-
dra, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulburn, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurimdi, Murwillumbah (Tweed Eiver), Muswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Quirindi,
Eichmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wilcannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, Wood!* urn, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland : Brisbane. Dalby, Maekay,
Maryborough, and Eockhampton,
Mai _ . 3sq.
jEjSQ. : jr. n. noere. naa.
i.5
WEDDING PRESENTS, BIRTHDAY GIFTS, BRIDAL TROUSEAUX—
The most Fashionable and Stylish class of Goods in the City of Sydney.
Peapes and Shaw are now making a
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the SEASON,
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
IN
BEAL AND IMITATION
LACE GOODS.
PAY A VISIT
OF
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
REAL SEALSKIN
AND
PLUSH BAGS AND
PURSES.
LADIES'
SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BOXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CASES
NE PLUS LEATHER DESKS
ASSORTED SCENT CASKETS
ROYAL CABINETS OP GAMES
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CASKET
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARRINGS
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING CASES
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRACKETS
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET GLASSES
LADIES' FANS FOR DRESS OR PROMENADE
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS HOLDERS
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF BOXES
CRIBBAGE BOARDS AND ROULETTES
LADIES’ Fitted TRAVELLING BAGS
BOUDOIR TIDIES—A “NOVELTY”
COMBINATION JEWEL CASES
DRAWING-ROOM INK TRAYS
CARVED WOOD BRACKETS
COMPENDIUM OP GAMES
FRENCH STATUETTES
MUSICAL BOXES
PHOTO. ALBUMS
POCKET BOOKS
LETTERCASES
NECKLETS
PURSES
&C. &C.
Grand Display of
as follows:
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CELEBRATED
“FLORA” KID GLOVES
Six Pairs for 18/6,
in elegantly scented sachet.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
COSTUMES
1
: Are celebrated throughout
the colonies.
i PEAPES AND SHAW’S
charm mo
MILLINERY
CANNOT be EXCELLED
ANYWHERE.
Do you want to MAKE A PRESENT to a Lady or a Gentleman?
If you do, PAY A VISIT TO
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
Public Companies
The mercantile bank op Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £110,000
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G.
Hob. Wia. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITOES:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGES:
F. A. A. Wilson.
SECRETARY:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street,
LONDON BANKERS :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
London Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
IOENWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
' ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £100,000.
EESERVE FUND ... £80,000.
Fire and Marine Eisks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEEET,
SIDNEY.
The national mutual fire
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALASIA (Limited).
Established 1869.
The only Life Office in the Australian colonies which
has been conducted on PURELY MUTUAL PRIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and Co.), Chairman.
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Biddulph, and Alsop).
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made by the Association
belongs to the policyholders, and is divided among them
every THREE YEARS. The bonuses declared have
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENRY F. FRANCIS, Resident Secretary.
AG. churchwood,
• 147 YORK STREET,
Oppssite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER OF
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS. SUEEY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SKEWERS,
Just arrived, aU sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO.
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,.
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury,
if H. ARIEL L,.
» • PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kbnt-stbeet, near King-street.
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
R. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and'
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria : The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bant of south Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies beyond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank.
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank.
Manchester ■ The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland : The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon: The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China,
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu : Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais,
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
o
u
<3
<1
Ph
m
w
CJ
p 3
« s
8 w
44
QQ ft)
2 B
• | s ™°|f effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &c.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more bnlliont than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely connned to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cudic ieet oi
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures ; acts
for its customers in the investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OP
VICTORIA (LIMITED),
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, Esq.
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments noon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
a' «• C ?' al ®° be * t 0 call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
& nd enect ua l loek. It prevcutß 3,11 rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can be used with or
1879 SO I C ° rdS * ThlS Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
%
w
r a
UNADULTERATED
BAK/NC POWDER
a
W
AC KNOWLKDCfii TO BK THE BEST IN THE WORLD
MA MU FA C TURBO BY W. DAY JESS Cf COVLBURN.SI.SM
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STREET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO. Subscribed, £44,049.
Directors :
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M G., M.P., President.
Mr. Alderman Jobn Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T, M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J. Chapman, Esq., J.P. ( E. J. Eubie, Esq,
T. E. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT. —No entrance or medical fees
or other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIEE DEPARTMENT. —Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANY Office in the Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BRAY,
Secretary.
IHE BEST PAINT IN THE WORLD
A
CLASTIC
KOrtOM'CAL
S(^Tc?of
THE PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and i gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
ns:—“‘Woollahra, August 20th, 1880, —I have found the
EUBBEE PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary point.
My own house was painted with it about 15 months ago
and appears as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences.”
ONE GALLON OP PACIFIC EUBBEE PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and AEMSTEONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MAEKET STEEET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
UEPHT AND S 0 N,
IMPOETEES OF
GLASS (all sizes cut
to order)
Plate
Sheet
Stained
Ornamental
Cathedral
Hammered (flat and
rolled)
Paperhangers’ Canvas ;
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Eesin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
White and Eed Lead
Turpentine
Eaw and Boiled Oils'
Brush ware
Kerosene Oil
Colours for House and
Coach painters, plas-
terers, &e.
Varnishes
MIXED PAINT. EEADY FOE USE, ANY SHADE
EEQUIEED.
All orders promptly executed by Bail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BEITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAEEHOUSE,
29 and 31 GEOEGE STEEET WEST.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
-pi CLAEKE AND
Wholesale and Retail
CO.,
G E 0 C E E S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES,
Country Orders promptly attended to.
i
193 -OXFOED STEEET
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHU RST.
TRAMWAY TICKETS.
INDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The idghest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
Excelsior land investment and
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED),
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms —viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
street. WILLIAM JAEEETT,
Manager.
COMMERCIAL STORES, SUSSEX-STREET.
JOHN McMINN AND CO.,
AUCTIONEEES, PRODUCE MERCHANTS, AND
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS.
Special attention given to Consignments, and Account
Sales promptly rendered. Intercolonial Shipping
and Country Orders executed with despatch.
Gr.
A. S M I T
88 KING STEEET
(From Eotherham’s, London),
H,
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
«
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLEEY
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under G. A. S.’s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXPOED STEEET.
T
HE GREAT PROMENADE FOR LADIES
KING-STEEET.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Prints at 3Jd per yard.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costumes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon Marche Weol Beiges at s|d, 7Jd, 9|d per
yard.
See the Bon Marche New Linen Costume Cloth at 7Jd
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing this season..
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, a
seasonable goods in our windows—
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.


Business Announcements
H. PALIN
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
352 George-street.
ii ))! Il f
!W1«!ll"
ii
ii
mm
i
Ilf®
*&mr r 7%
PIANOFORTES. PIANOFORTES.
JUST RECEIVED. JUST RECEIVED
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPE AND AMERICA,
A splendid stock to select from by
EVERY RENOWNED MAKER.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
By the celebrated makers
W. BELL, AND CO.,
Which gained first and special prize
OVER ALL OTHERS
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
HARMONIUMS
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENOWNED MAKERS,
in all the various models.
A FEW GOOD SECOND-HAND PIANOS
at low prices, now in stock.
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’s, Pleyel’s, Anchor’s
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hundt and Son’s Piano
fortes.
W. Bell, & Co.’s, Horace Waters and Son’s, Clougl
and Warren’s, and Smith and Company’s Organs.
352 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Wynyard-street,
Sydney.
BOYD’S SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART
260 and 262 GEORGE-STREET,
(over Peate and Harcourt’s),
Now open to the Public. The highest order (only) o
Photographs, Oil Paintings, Coloured and Blac
Crayon Water Colours, and Indian Ink
will be produced.
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fading pictures made
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respectfully solicited.
REDGATE’S
PATEIT MEAL
And FOOD OF HEALTH.
The most wholesome morning diet foi
children or persons in delicate health.
THE ONLY KIND MADE TO SUIT THE SEASON.
■old hr all Grocers and Htorskeepsiu
TH AND F. \ jjW. W. MA S 0
DRAUGHTSMEN
AND
Engravers on Wood,
LAND, ASSURANCE, AND GENERAL AQEh
All matters carried out promptly. Plans’prepare
Address—l 24 ELIZABETH STREET (near King-!
RON AND BRASS BEDSTEA
Fitted up with
Palliasses, Mattresses, Bolsters, Pillows,
, Sheets, Blankets, Counterpanes,
Bolsters and Pillow Slips,
Mosquito Curtains.
J. LAWLER,
manufacturer and importer
608 Goorge-street.
Tobacconists
E
James e
CELEBRATED
EXCELSIOR SMOKING MIXTURE,
Cut Enby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Leaf, Barrett’s Twist
Best Imported Brands.
Havana and Manilla Cigars.
Pipes Mounted and Repaired.
159
PITT STREET.
Next Post Office.
TIN TAG TOBACCOS.
None are genuine but the ROUND TIN TAG.
stamped with the words
CONQUEROR or YANKEE DOODLE.
DIXSON & SONS,
155 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGARETTES,
MILD, FRAGRANT, & DELICIOUS.
a’
m
.Vv\V
Manufactured by
T. S A Y W E L L,
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
Clarence-street, Sydney.
Chemists and Druggists
=iS
wm
m
mmm*
jp ÜBLIC NOTICE.
THE following List of
WATSON'S' RENOWNED PROPRIETARY
MEDICINES,
so well and favourably known to the Australian public—
Watson’s (Vegetable) Antibilious Pills
Watson’s (Vegetable) Worm Powders
Watson’s Gingerbread Worm Nuts
Watson’s Compound Chloroform Liniment
Watson’s Strengthening Eye Lotion
Watson’s Australian Vermin-Killer
Watson’s Excelsior Toothache Essence
Watson’s Concentrated Gout and Rheumatism
Elixir (a most valuable preparation)—
can be obtained, wholesale and retail, at the Manu-
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG STORES,
581 GEORGE STREET.
Chemists and Druggists
IAKE NO MORE PILLS
• but try
RANDERSON’S
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES.
Bo yon SUFFER from HEADACHE ?
Then try Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES I
Do you Complain of Indigestion!
Take a few doses of Eanderson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES 1
Do you Suffer from Giddiness ?
Spend one shilling, and be cured by
EANDEESON’S LOZENGES!
Do you constantly suffer from Biliousness ?
If so remember Randerson’s
PODOPHYLLIN LOZENGES
soon cure, if taken as directed, being the
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDICINE KNOWN.
Are any'of your children sick at any time ? You
can safely give them one of these Lozenges,
for the small members of the human family
TAKE WELL TO LOLLIES.
•*’ Remember this, and always keep a box of his
Valuable Family Medicine by yon.
Prepared only by the Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW and COMPANY
45 and 47 George-street.
JJY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
The Greatest
WONDER OF THE AGE.
JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Guaranteed to be
Free from all poisonous qualities, and composed
of Vegetable Matter only.
Being made from the Wild Plants which only grow
in the Bush of New South Wales,
This Ointment is not a mere catchpenny to gull the
public, nor does it require any puffing advertisements,
as it has been so well proved for the last TEN YEARS
that it is impossible that the public could have been so
long deceived. In fact, people are naturally so incredu-
lous regarding its efficacy (never having used such an
article of the kind before which affords such instant
relief), that they really cannot believe in its virtue.
But one trial will convince the most unbelieving.
High and low, rich and poor, have received vast bene-
fits from its use, and scarcely any house can now be
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT
is now the household word of the country.
The quick and instant relief from pain, and the speedy
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF THE AGE,
which, taken altogether, prove the Australian Ointment
to be the Eighth Wonder of the World. It cures sore
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints, excoriation, chapped
hands and lips, bunions, soft corns, deafness, and all
casualities attending the human frame succumb to the
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT,
the
WONDER OF THE AGE.
Who would suffer from Sandy Blight when they can
find immediate relief and be perfectly cured by using
Josephson’s Australian Ointment?
Who would suffer from External Sores when the same
may be cured by using Josephson’s Australian Oint-
ment p
Who would suffer from Soft Corns when can be re-
moved by applying constantly for a few days Joseph-
son’s Australian Ointment P
Who would suffer from Burns and Scalds when they
can have immediate relief by applying Josephson’s
Australian Ointment ?
_ Who would suffer from Excoriations of any descrip-
tion when a remedy like Josephson’s Australian
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles when a rem dy like
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is at hand?
It stands unrivalled. The wonderful cures it has
effected, which is proved by the testimonials from parties
of undoubted respectability, and who can at once be
communicated with, and the large and daily increasing
demand, prove it to be still pre-eminent over anything
of the kind yet known. It is of a pure green colour,
the natural extracts of the plants from which it is made,
and totally free from any and all deleterious and poi-
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIAN
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what it is represented—a
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, in pots, Is.
and Is 6d each throughout the colonies.
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY.
POTHE CARIES’ HALL,
14 OXFORD STREET,
Near Hyde Park Corner.
(N.B. —The Tram-car stops close by).
W. D. EAMESj Proprietor,
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE LIEUT.
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of the Pharmaceutical
Societies of Victoria and New South Wales.
rji H 0 S. J. BO W N & CO.,
ENGINEERS, BEASSPINISHEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITAET WARE
HOSE, &c.
IKON
TIN
BRASS
LEAD
COMPOSITION
AND
COPPER PIPE.
POMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES AND QUALITIES.
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS,
Repairs of every description executed.
107 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
W. D. E. thanks the public and medical profession
for the support hitherto accorded him.
Irrespective of Club prescriptions or Repetition, he
has dispensed 34,900 original prescriptions, written by
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
Every prescription is CAREFULLY prepared with
the BEST DRUGS, copied, numbered and indexed, and
sent, if required, to any locality.
enteal pharmac
78 (Late 84) KING STREET.
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMENT.
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Surgical Appliances,
Toilet Requisites, etc.
Every article carefully selected.
FELMINGHAM. Chemist.
WATCHES.
QHEISTMAS PRESENTS.
/
S
m
VJ
i
A. J. HUETON,
636 GEOEGE-STEEET SOUTH.
Cheapest House in Town.
JEWELLEEY.
IMPROVED HOME SHUTTLE
LOCK STICK
SEWING MACHINE.
To prevent fraud and deception, the makers stamp
the following words on the steel slide of every machine
they ship their sole agents in Australia
All Genuine Machines
stamped
M. MOSS and Co.,
Sole Agents,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Look for those words before making your purchase,
ur a Worthless Imitation may he forced upon you by
vendors of counterfeits.
The only hand machine that received any award at the
Philadelphia Exhibition.
THE HOME SHUTTLE
has the largest sale of any Machine in Australia, and as
a proof of its durability, is
GUAEANTEED FOE FIVE YEABS.
Eeduced Peice List:—
No, I.—For Hand Use, complete, £4,
No. 2.—For Treadle Use, with table complete, £6
No. 3. —Ditto, with cover and lock and key, com
plete, £7.
Sole Agents for Australia and New Zealand,
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYAED-LANE, SYDNEY.
to the Cure of
ENLARGEMENT of the LIVER
WITH ULCERATION, &c.
To Sims and Pauses,
Sirs, —If it is any benefit to you, or assurance to any
one who may place themselves in your hands at any
future time, you are at liberty to use my name and that
of my daughters in connection with the very efficient
way in which you treated and CURED me of Enlarge-
menof the Liver and Spleen, with all the accompanying
pains and aches. For POUR or FIVE YEARS I had
been a great sufferer, and my household duties had to
be entirely seen to by my family. I employed several
skilful physicians, but my complaint did not yield to
their treatment. In fact, I got so low as to be near
death’s door, when the medical assistant I had been
having gave me up as incurable. I consider it a
fortunate circumstance that threw me, as a Last
Resort, on the herbalists, and I am now a living testi-
monial to the efficacy of your treatment.
E. MOORE.
Grose-Street, Camperdown, N.S.W.
October 27,1879.
SIMS AND PARKE S,
MEDICAL HERBALISTS,
Treat all Diseases, and forward medicine and advice
to all parts of the colonies, on receipt of Gash and Post
Office Order. Address—
-240 GEORGE STREET, opposite Charlotte-place,
Sydney.
A N
ELEGANT CHRISTMAS PRESENT
VISIT
O
%
1 a
FOE GOOD, CHEAP, DURABLE INVESTMENTS.
PIANOS, ORGANS, HARMONIUMS.
PIANOS sold on Terms to suit Purchasers.
Second-hand Pianos taken in exchange.
A. H.’s is the Cheapest House in Sydney for CASH.
Letters promptly attended to
A. HUENEEBEIN, Jus.,
(Nearly opposite the Royal Hotel).
COUGH WHILE YOU CAN ! Because, after
taking Dr. Thompson’s American Coltsfoot Cough
Linctus, you will not be able to cough. Price Is. at
WASHINGTON H. SOUL’S, 177 Pitt-street next to
Punch’s Hotel.
TICKLE YOUR APPETITE with the Aus-
tralian Relish, made by Washington H. Soul,
17 4 Pitt street, price one shilling. Sold everywhere.
M
R. AND MRS. BOOTH,
Experienced and thoroughly qualified HYDRO.
PATHIC PRACTITIONERS, GIVE TREAT-
MENT DAILY, at 107 LIVERPOOL-STRICT.
Pamphlets gratis.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders.
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marine and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining’
MBls* and all other descriptions of machinery’
with latest improvements.
N.B.— Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal.


LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
B LADON’S HEALTH SALINE,
A combination of Oxygenated Salts with the ripe
juices of LEMONS. LIMES, and ORANGES.
Taken according to direction on the bottle,
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a most simple and
rational remedy as a preventive or cure of Biliousness,
all Functional Irregularities of the Liver, Sick Head-
ache, Lowness of Spirits, Habitual Costiveness, Im-
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sickness, Heartburn,
Indigestion, the effects propuced by a too free in-
dulgence in rich food, or the aause of alcoholic
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, Ac.; at the commence-
ment of Fevers, Sin all Pox, Diphtheria, Chicken Pox,
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, climatic, or eruptive
diseases. It is especially serviceable in the nursery,
and should entirely supersede the use of nauseous
aperients. Children take it with pleasure. The in-
vigorating effect of an occasional dose arms the system
to successfully combat the insidious attacks of disease.
It effectually destroys the Poison Germs in the Blood,
contracted in our daily walk through life, and by the
alterative and enriching qualities it possesses, enables
the vital fluid to perform, in a healthy state, its allotted
functions in the wonderful economy of God’s master-
piece —Man. Remember this is Nature’s specific,
supplied by the Science of Chemistry in a pleasant
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE
may justly be termed a BLOOD DISINFECTANT.
PROVED BY THE GOVERNOR.
Government House, Sydney,
10th January, 1881.
“ Sir, —In reply to your letter, I have to inform you
that the parcel was received in good order; and the
reason of my not writing to you before was on account
of my wishing that the * Saline ’ should have a trial. I
am now directed to inform you that his Excellency
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“ I also can vouch for the same, and consider it a very
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Yours faithfully,
“ Reginald Bloxsome, P.S.
“Mr. W. G. Bladon.”
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALINE.
The Australian’ Churchman says :
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERVESCING DRINK.
We can honestly recommend it
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRUIT SALT
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, Parramatta Health
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles (price, 2s. 6d.), of
all chemists.
Wholesale —Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney; Messrs
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisbane.
K
p/v^ryr
A fvl Y
NjADE JO *
pL/AirJ pcuFffi, de£icm ! £.
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WAICHPS.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks —simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of all kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
E
N
0
F E.
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest to enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit suicide, as they do, were it not for the
most bitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging effects of Dyspepsiaand Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PARALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEART DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask you
in good faith that you try only ene bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWER, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s 6d.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
ABOUR BAZAAR,
FURNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STREET.
Established a.d. 1840,
A. MOORE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced—and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, &c., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAR at a cheaper
rate than at any other house in the colonies.
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND CO.,
Manufacturers and Importers.
WEHLOW’S WOOLPACK HOTEL,
PARRAMATTA,
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR FAMILIES.
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the very best brands, at
moderate charges. First-class Bowling Green for tn
use of those who are fond of recreation.
FUN AND FANCY.
Grow tall and live long.
Bees cell all their honey.
Dead locks—False curls.
Too many pins go to waist.
A dangerous game—A tiger.
Something to lie about —A bed.
Soar feat —A balloon ascension.
The fat of the land—Petroleum.
You can tell dogwood by its bark.
The mule practises the heeling art.
Fisherman’s luck —Catching a chill.
An unpleasant nut to crack —Acorn.
A grave error —burying a man alive.
A joiner’s bench —The hymeneal altar. —
“ Strike, but hear me,” said the drum. L
The lightning makes a thundering noise.
Wick-ed affairs—Torchlight processions.
Held for further hearing—The ear trumpet.
Patrons of the ring—Expectant bridegrooms.
Eden was a Paradise without a mosquito net.
How to save time—Let your watch run down.
A Chinese adage—Love ’oo little, love Oolong.
Telescope two trains and you immediately see
stars.
The women are, or should be, Home Eulers, to
a man.
Light houses for the mariner, not for the
manager.
Multum in parvo—The little finger carries the _
biggest ring.
The baker is always willing to work when he
kneads bread.
“Swans sing before they die.” They have to
if they sing at all. _
When you have a family jar you can’t always
preserve the peace.
Adam was the first gambler, because he lost his
all in a pair-o’-dice.
Avoid a pair of boots which the shoemaker says
you can’t wear out.
When your son is fast, put on the screw; when
be gets faster, nail him.
A good soldier is an easy catch. He is always
ready for an engagement. d
It is not the whisky that makes a man drunk, it
is his inability to carry it. '
A good whisky sling—Sling the bottle out of the
window—after it is empty.
The sign for an eating house that never closes:
** Oysters—open all night.
Lamb with mint sauce—A youthful millionaire
seeking colonial experience.
“I like the wind,” said the sailor, “when it
blows foul, and then chops." "
Never marry a girl unless you have known her
at least three days and a picnic.
It is the clergyman who does the coupling, and |
the couple who do the switching.
Preachers are always strong on Sundays. Of
course they have their week days.
“ There’s music in the heir,” says Jones. Jones
has a brand new baby at his house.
A good fishing season in Scotland always indi-
cates a rise in the matrimonial market.
He who has ridden in a Waverley ’bus knows
how cream feels when its being churned.
There is little difference between hens and
pugilists. Hens set, and pugilists set-to.
Snoring is a ground for divorce in America; but
you had better not show this to your wife.
They’ve dug up another body of Christopher
Columbus in America, and are exhibiting it.
There is a romance in figures. A young man
met a girl, 1 ’er, married her and took her on a wedding
2-er.
Barnum has not yet found a young man suitable
for the position vacated by the death of his bearded
lady.
When two politicians bet a bottle of wine in a
restaurant there are many men willing to hold the
stakes.
The bee can give a stinging retort, and yet keep
his mouth shut. This is where it has the advantage
of the park orator.
The difference between a goat and a Scotchman
is this: The one delights in cold oat meal and the other
delights in old coat meal.
Mary was accused of picking out the toughest
old turkey in the yard. “Please ma’am, didn’t yo«say
you wanted it to be the piece de resistance ?’’
He was completely gone, and he said to a friend,
“Ah, I live in her eye.” “I thought so,” said the
other fellow ; “ saw a stye there the other day.”
A poetess asks: “ Have you lived the songs
you sing, love ?” If he sings, “We won’t go home till
morning,” no doubt he has lived at least one of them.
A dull old lady, being informed that a police-
court lawyer was lying at the point of death, exclaimed,
“ My gracious, won’t even death stop that man’s
lying?”
A minister having walked through a village
churchyard, and observed the indiscriminate praises
bestowed upon the dead, wrote upon the gatepost the
following t—“ Here lie the living and the dead.”
A droll fellow fished a miserly old customer out
of a river. “ There’s a half-a-crown for you,” said the
old gentleman, with gratitude in his eyes. “ Not at
all,” said the young fellow, “ ’taint worth it; here’s
two shillings back.”
Scene —A thick hedge in the old country, with
two sportsmen waiting to " pot” the landlord. Mike:
“ His lordship’s late, oim thinkin’.” Pat: “ He is
thin. Oim anxious myself. I hope nothing has hap-
pened the poor man.”
Captain: “What’s the charge, sergeant?”
Sergeant: “ This time it’s drunkenness, sir. But this
man is the most troublesome fellow in the regiment,
sir. He goes out when he likes, and comes in when he
likes, and gets drunk when he likes—in fact, he might
be a hofficer!”
Little can of oil—
Little maiden fair.
Wants the pot to boil—
Climbs the golden stair.
Little bright revolver—
Little bully boy.
Thinks that he will solve her—
Coroner gets the toy.
Chorus —“ There’s a land that is fairer than this.”
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street.
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
Look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beautiful
MILLINEEY BONNETS, from 12s 6d, MILLINERY
HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COSTUMES from
Js lid. Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d, Ladies Corsets
from Is lid. Ladies’ White Cotton Hose from 4$d per
pair. Ladies* Scarves, Collars, Gloves, Fischus, Baby-
linen, Underclothing, &c., cheaper than any other
house outside the UNITED KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department, Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE If RETAIL IMPORTERS If
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We are in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
NO DAMAGED GOODS, |
Ladies', Gentlemen’s, and Children’s Boots and
Shoes of English, French, and German
Manufacture.
JUST OPENED for this week’s Sale: —
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
LjJ
LU
DC
OUR CU
01
I We I
CO
LjJ
CO
DC
O
Only thos
c
CON
LjJ
CO
Boys’ and
O
l? 3
Q_
CO
DO
DC
<
LU
DC
CO
B«
Our Stool
N«
For ever
Sa
New (
Gents’ S
own ;
7/6, woi
Ourimr
chases er
undersell
establish
Weabs
it would
copy, wt
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLK
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACTW§OAP.
Trademark "Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
ALW A y s
TRADE
MARK
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHERS FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BE USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, See,
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, &c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marhle Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in ilb packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. VIVIAN RAUCH,
16 C ARLOTTE PLACE
Sydney, N.S.W,
E. KEEP Sc CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria.
R. D. NEIL SON,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WHAT IS THE EESULT of importing our
own goods and paying cash for them ?
DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our customers the best possible value P
And WHERE ARE THOSE who will not take advan-
tage of the inducements offered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special month,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required.
FOR COLLECTION AND VARIETY, The Royal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for itself
a lasting reputation. PARTIES DESIROUS of securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
double—Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies’ and gentle-
men’s, with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enambled, brass mounted, black and gold,
also flowered, with the new extending foot rail—Patent
Sanitory Spiral Spring or Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
tresses, recommended by all doctors —Toilet Sets,
single and double, in all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites —Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards—Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
materials—An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
and Girandoles, in very pretty frames —Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre, Card, and Occasional Tables —Papier-
machd goods of every description—Ladies’ Musical
Companions—Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
Jewel Caskets—Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
about one hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
and Fish Globes—Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Services
in new patterns—A splendid assortment of Marble
I Clocks and Bronzes to match— Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
I grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables—Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets—
Flower Pots and Specimen Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, Inkstands, Paper
Weights, &c., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell).
EOYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 & 428 GEOEGE STREET,
Next the Eoyal Hotel.
THE SHOW-ROOMS LOOK MAGNIFICENT,
Seperate tables being laid out with
SPECIALITIES FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The Bishop of Grafton has arrived by the John
Elder — on a visit to Australia.
There is another letter, per the Suez mail, at
The Bulletin Office for the Duke of Manchester.
Mr. Gocdchap, Commissioner for Railways, has
been indisposed, but is again able to attend at his office
Mr. J. E. Salamons, the able barrister, returns
to Sydney from England by the February mail steamer.
Mr. Henry Hudson, senior partner of the firm
of Hudson Bros., left Sydney per Australia, en route to
Europe.
According to an English journal, Lord Lonsdale
will shortly resume his position as a prominent patron
of the turf.
Mme. Patti bought .£3OOO worth of art objects in
Pans. She has of late developed a taste for painting
and sculpture.
Mrs. Alexander Wilson and the Misses Wilson
from Corea Station, are on a visit to Melbourne and are
staying at Menzies.’
Sir Arthur Gordon lately paid a private visit to
his friend, Sir George Grey. New Zealanders ask,
“ What does this mean P”
Sir George Grey will make the Patetere land
question his trump card against the N.Z. Government
in the House next session.
At the funeral of Lord Ash town, five hundred
of his tenants participated, each wearing a white scarf.
He always attended to their wants.
Sir William and Lady Manning and the Misses
Manning arrived in Melbourne last week from Sydney,
and are stopping at the Bella Vista.
Miss Kennedy, daughter of Sir Arthur Kennedy,
arrived in Sydney, from Melboure, on Monday, and left
the same day, per Katoomba, for Brisbane.
Sergeant Gibbons, of Goulburn, is, it is said, the
man who was guard over Sir Charles Gavan Duffy when
the latter was a political prisoner in Ireland.
Mr. Service leaves Melbourne for England by
the March mail. His friends want him to retain his
seat, and it is not unlikely their wishes will prevail.
Mr. Senior, late shorthand writer of the Legis-
lative Assembly, Brisbane, has been banqnetted by the
Johnsonian Club, prior to his departure for England.
The new mansion being built at Campbelltown
by Mr. Moore is rapidly progressing towards comple-
tion. It will be one of the finest, if not the finest
building in the district. The view that will be obtained
from it will repay any tourist for his or her walk. A
splendid site for an observatory lies just at the back of
the mansion.
Vera Sassulitsch, the Bus-
sian Nihilist, handles the pen as
dexterously as the sword or pistol.
She is now one of the contributors
to M. Pyat’s Commune.
Sir Archibald Michie, Q.C.,
has been admitted a barrister of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania,
with the view it is said to his ap-
pearing in a big case to come on
at Hobart.
Superintendent Hare’s claim
for a share of the Kelly gang re-
ward has been very favourably
received. The gallant officer has
completely recovered from the ef-
fects of his wound.
Carlyle is 86 years old, and
gets crabbeder and savager as he
grows older. He’ll begin to im-
prove in about twenty years.
The cable now, however, (says he
is dying.
The Duke of Buckingham is
about to marry Miss Kate Carmi-
chael, daughter of the Secretary
of the Madras Government, a lady
not quite as old as the youngest
daughter of her husband that is to
be.
Miss Helen Gladstone,
daughter of the English Premier,
has entered Newnham College as
a teacher. The gifted lady has set
a good example to women of
wealth, who, at present, know not
how to employ their time and
talents.
Miss Vaughan, of South
Yarra, sister-in-law of the Eev.
Dr. Torrence, has lately returned
to Melbourne from England,
where she spent some time study-
ing the Kinder Garten system,
with a view of establishing a school
in Melbourne. It is hoped she
will have every success.
Sergeant Childers, who was
known to fame as “ the best
drilled man in the world,” was re-
cently killed while hunting near
Koshkonong, Wisconsin, U.S.A.,
and was buried with military
honors at Janesville. Childers
was the man whom Jim Fisk sent
to Europe to drill against any man
in the world, backing him with a
£2OOO challenge.
The Rev. J. B. Boyce, the well-known and
much respected pastor of Trinity Church, Orange,
leaves shortly on a trip to England.
The new Empress of Russia is said by those
who know her best to be a woman of head who will
make her influence felt if the Czar’s life is spared for a
few years. She is a very good friend, and a vindictive
enemy, as Count Alderberg has to his sorrow learned.
Russians like the idea of a Russian Empress whose
policy will he to foster theanti-German feeling at Court
and in the schools and universities.
Lady Burdett-Coutts has been invested with
the white and purple liveries of the Guild of Haber-
dashers, and made a free and accepted draperess. She
is the first woman since the days of Elizabeth who has
been admitted within the charmed circle of the Guild.
The vesture is a sort of pinafore, mantle and robe, and
a richly embossed gold medallion was hung round her
neck. She made a long and excellent speech, in which
there was no sign of effort.
M. Yictorien Sardon is without doubt the most
prominent of the French dramatists of the day. He
has written some two score plays in half as many years.
He is not yet fifty ; he is very rich : he is the youngest
member of the French Academy, and it is to his plays
that he owes his riches and his seat for the “ forty
immortals." He was bom in Paris, September 7th,
1831, and was early entered as a medical student, but he
soon gave up medicine for literature.
The monument erected at Opunake, N.Z., to
the memory of Miss Dobie, has the following in-
scription :
In memory of
Mart Beatrix,
Daughter of Major H. M. Dobie,
late of the Madras Army.
Bom Dec. 22nd, 1830;
Died Nov. 25th, 1880.
This memorial is erected by the non-commissioned
Officers and men of the
Armed Constabulary
stationed at Opunake and Cape Egmout.
Dec., 1880.
. Lord Redesdale, somewhat shabbily dressed, as
is his wont, recently went to see the Foreign Minister
on business. Knocking at the door, he was received by
the footman, who, without knowing who Lord Redes-
dale was, informed him curtly that Lord Granville was
not at home. “ But, look ’ere," continued the flunkey,
just run and get me a quart hof 'alf and 'alf, will
you producing a jug. “ Certainly,” replied Lord
Kedesdale. and, taking the jog, away he toddled for the
if r ’ c BriD £ in S it back, he handed it to the footman,
who first of all took a regnlar quencher; then Lord
rtedesdale, politely declini-g the offer of a drink, quietly
remarked; “Oh, by the by, when your master comes
him that the Earl of Redesdale called to see
Pope Leo still declines to accept the income, a
quarter of a million lire annually, offered him by the
Italian Government, although it has lately been pro-
posed that this subvention should take the form of a
personal contribution to the Peter’s-pence fund on the
part of their Majesties the King and Queen of Italy. It
appears that, despite the many reductions in his house-
hold expenditure effected bv Leo XIII., the outlay of
the Holy See still amounts to 5,000,000 lire annually,
toward which total Papal investments in foreign stocks,’
etc., only contribute about a million and a half A
committee of Cardinals, with the accomplished diplo-
matist and financier, Jacobini, at its head, has, in
consequence, been appointed to place the finances on a
proper basis.
The following is an incident in the life of one
who is now “ an English personage of some position •”
—He was a very smart “young ’nn.” and it is not a
matter for surprise that he should have got on in the
world. Fifteen or sixteen years ago he took his bright
fresh, young face into the hazard-rooms at Newmarket
Gamblers love an inginu to play for them. A gentleman
had dropped £5O by backing the “out” at the wrong
time, and he got up in disgust. Seeing the young ’urn,
whom he knew, he gave him £2O, and asked him to play
it for him until he had got the £5O back again. The
youngster, not playing with his own money, went away
with a dash, and soon won back the losses. The gentle-
tS.en the £5O, and told the youngster to go on
IT 6 110 succeeded in running it into
£lOO, they would divide that sum. The youngster now
played with care, and he soon had £97 to the good. All
that was wanted was £3 more. The youngster then
argued thusly: “In getting the odd £3 I may lose the
Jot; had I not better make up the money myself?”
Taking £3 out of his pocket, he added it to the £97 won
said to his principal, “ Here, sir, is the
£lOO. He took £5O for his share, and cleared £47 bv
his happy thought.
Signor Salvini, the great Italian tragedian, is
now m his fifty-second year. He was born at Milan on
the Ist of January, 1829. His father was a professor of
literature m Leghorn, and his grandfather a Papal offi-
cer of distinction. Placed as pupil in the principal
f Florence, young Salvini gave promise of a
bnuiant future; but his studies were soon interrupted
by his father, who recalled him to Leghorn. He had
—t? taught the dramatic art, for which young Tomaso
had already manifested a strong inclination. When
about twenty years old, the political events of 1849
roused in him the liberal and independent spirit in-
herited from his grandfather; so much so, that he sud-
denly abandoned the stage for the field. He took an
active part in all the strifes for Italian independence,
and became the intimate friend of Mazaini, Garibaldi,
and baffi, with whom he was taken prisoner at Genoa.
His self-denial and great courage gained for him a gold
medal and the commission of a line officer; and, in the
commission presented to him by General Avezana.
special mention was made of his bravery and patriotism.
L pon his return to Florence, he consecrated an entire
year to the study of the classics, and during this time
he prepared himself for hia great impersonations of
Othello, Saul, Hamlet, and Ortsmane.
“ You have, perhaps, not heard,” writes a
gentleman in England to a friend in Sydney, “of
Mme. Novikotf, the intimate friend of the Gladstone
family, the prophetess of Philo-Slavism in England, the
writer of a number of articles advocating the Russo-
English alliance, which have appeared in Fraser’s
Maoazine and other publications of similar tendencies.
This lady, the wife of a Russian General, and sister-in-
law of the Russian Ambassador in Constantinople (for-
merly in Vienna), has claims to a European celebrity at
least equal to any lady that I know of. For a couple of
years or so past Mme. Novikoff has been constantly
found hanging on the skirts, so to speak, of the
present Britisb,T?remier—always in his company, and
not far away. Mme. Novikotf has known how to play
on the religions side of Mr. Gladstone’s character, and
to inspire him with a warm interest in the Greek
Church and in the dream of a future union between
Anglican and Oriental Christianity. And it is mainly
to the skill with which that lady has worked on his
feelings that the noted statesman believes in the possi-
bility of realising Balkan Slavonic Federation, inde-
pendent alike of Russia and of Austria. It was on this
foundation, laid only after some years of intimate inter-
course, that the federation project was erected whereby
so fanciful a character has been imparted to the Glad-
stone policy.
WOMAN ITEMS.
v
The age for women—Marriage.
Warlike woman! Always for conquest.
Anna wore striped stockings. Hosannah!
The prettiest girls are maidens all for lawn.
Said he : “ Let us be one.” And she was won.
A girls’ ribs run up and down. Of corset’s so.
Love, to a woman, is a necessity; to a man, a
luxury.
“Humph!” said a young gentleman at the
theatre to a young lady, • I could play the lover better
than that myself.” “ I would like to see you try,” was
her naive reply.
“ Live and let live,” as the mosquito said to the
sleeper.
A North Shore girl is a great artist. Leastways
she paints well.
A young girl formed 500 words out of the letters
in “George Washington."
Always embrace an opportunity when it comes
in the shape of a buxom girl.
Gifts of boquets are the attractions of the
principal American soft-goods houses.
A Townsville bride whipped her father because
he induced her husband to drink in a barroom.
A bride first discovers what a brute she has
married when she hears him putting up a stove-pipe.
There may be truth in the old saw that when a
man makes love to a widow he begins where the other
left off.
“I’m sure I can do the work,” said the girl to
her new mistress, “ but can you make yourself generally
useful?”
New Zealanders are happy because they are to
be allowed by their Parliament to marry their dead
wive’s sisters.
They were “two bosoms with a single thought.”
Still they were unhappy. He wanted to boss the house
and so did she.
Japanese ladies paint their cheeks with a green
substance, which, on exposure to the air, soon becomes
a delicate pink.
It is a positive fact that an enthusiastic repub-
lican daughter of Brooklyn (U.S.) went round buying
votes with kisses.
One of the newest ornaments for the hair is a
Prince of Wales plume, with the stem of the three long
feathers outlined in diamonds.
There Is an interesting trial before the New York
courts. A wife sues another woman for depriving her
of her husband, and claims £4OOO damages.
The poor woman who was smashed upon the
railway the other night did leave a heritage to the
world. Her crumpled bonnet is the new fashion.
She threw an arm around her lady friend’s
waist and the scissors nearly severed an artery. We
are glad of this. Women will be usurping men'splaces.
Mrs. Partington returns from the sea-side.
“ Yes, I’ve been to a seaside retort. I have had my
summer extortion, and I must confess my anticipations
surpassed my expectations. To people in indignant
circumstances the recommendations might be satisfac-
tory ; but it is beyond my reprehension how people of
effulgence—people who have lugubrious homes, sur-
mounted by all that embezzles civilized life—can put
up in such caverns. They must have invested tastes.”
When you hear a man sneer at the honor and
virtue of a woman, you may' be sure that he is not ac-
customed to walk in high places, and that his boots are
soiled with the mnd of a low life.
Those Bishops ! The first wife of Bishop Pick-
ney, of Maryland, was twenty years his senior. Miss
Lucy Hunter, of Washington, whom the Bishop is soon
to marry, is twenty years his junior.
Thoughtful love at a display of fireworks —
“ Oh, Alfred we are very near! Is there really no
danger ?” “None, sweet, don’t you see I had the pre-
caution to put your mother in front of us.”
She may dress in silk, or may dress in satin.
May know the languages, Greek and Latin,
May know fine art, may love and sigh—
But she ain’t no good if she can’t make pie.
Maitland may be proud of a young woman so
innocent and pure-minded that she remarked to her
intended the day previous to their marriage: “ Now
mind! I won’t have a baby brought into the house.”
A recent matrimonial advertisement winds up
as follows ; —“ Fortune no object, but should require the
girl's relations to deposit £300 with me as a security for
her good behaviour.” We think this very good ; every
girl should give such security.
There is a girl whose home is near to mine;
And when this working world has ceased to hum.
She sits her down with happiness divine
And slams a cracked piano deaf and dumb.
I think the man who’d curse that lovely girl
A base, unmusical, unimpassioned churl!
Mrs. Garfield, the Queen of America, is a de-
voted wife and mother. There are five children, whose
gentle manners give evidence of the training under
which they are living. She does not care for general
society, but has a wide circle of friends who recognise
and appreciate the true worth in the woman, which
makes her friendship worth striving for.
We are still behind the States, to wit: —“ Dr.
Thompson, of New work, stood up bravely to be mar-
ried. One of his wife’s bridesmaids was Miss Collet.
The doctor noticed that she was far prettier than the
one he had married, and within a short time he in-
formed her that he regretted she was not his wife. She
suggested that the mistake might be rectified by
elopement, and they disappeared together.
Everyone, at least once in his
life passes through the rapturous
experience of the young man who,
while sitting by the side of the
lady of his choice, heard her heart
beat so loud that he thought some
one was at the door and cried out
‘‘Come in.”
Twenty ladies took a vote
on the question “ Has a young
lady the right to kiss a gentleman
with whom she takes an evening
drive?” There were nineteen
affirmative votes. The negative
vote was cast by a woman with a
glass eye and was counted none.
At the marriage, in England
recently, of Major Brownrigg, late
60th Rifles, and Miss Tottenham,
the gifts of the bridegroom to the
bridesmaids were brooches,formed
like swords, with the initials ef
the newly-married couple worked
on them ia coral and pearls.
Lizzie Hampton, a coloured
woman living in Union county.
South Carolina, gave birth to two
children of the Siamese order.
They are joined together by a
union of the breast-bone, having
but one navel, but supposed to
have two sets of intestines con-
fined in one cavity. They are
living and attracting much atten-
tion.
“ Adolphus, my dear,” said
she, “ it’s nearly a year since you
first began to call.” “Yes, I
believe so,” nervously. “And
we’ve talked about books and
music every night.” “Y-y-e-s, I
think so,” more nervous than
before. “ Well I, I—don't* you
think a change would be agree-
able P” There was “ a change ’’ in
a few weeks time. The pastor
made it.
No wonder the population of
America would increase! Eleven
children at four births was the
feat of Mrs. Scannel Hickson, of
Shamrock, Mo. First birth,
three; second and third, two each,
and at the last interesting occa-
sion there were four, all the latter
being alive and doing well. Ten
out of the eleven are alive.
Mother doing well; papa ditto.
There is a girl under treatment at Bellevue
Hospital, New York, for inability to use her legs. She
wore gaiters with inordinately h'gh French heels. The
distortion of her ftet and ankles caused an undue
tension of the cords and muscles of her calves. She
persisted, however, until her legs became misshapen,
and Anally she was wholly disabled by lameness. She
lies nnfashionably on her back now, with her handsome
feet and legs in a shaping apparatus, enduring a great
deal of pain, and uncertain whether she will ever be
able to walk without crutches.
Square umbrellas have been introduced in
i •> but some one says they are jnst as bad as the
old kind, because they are never round when wanted.
A Newtown politician says you may talk of your
water cures, your movement cures, and your blue-glass
cures; but there is nothing like the sinecure after all.
A repoiter of an American free fight says :
“ The colonel was shot once in the left side, once in the
right shoulder, and once in the drinking saloon adja-
cent.”
In letters to another man’s wife there may be
‘‘thoughts that breathe,” but prudence suggests that
they should be immediately followed by “ words that
bum.”
INTERIOR VIEW OF THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY’S OFFICES, PITT STRETT, SYDNEY.
A Romance in Skelelon.
A Calm, delightful Autumn Night—
A Moon’s mysterious golden Light—
A Maiden at her Window height,
In Robes of pure in fleecy White.
The'little Wicket Gate ajar—
A Lover tripping from afar.
With tuneful Voice and light Guitar,
To woo his radiant Guiding Star.
A Lute, with soft, insidious Twang—
Oh, how the doting Lover sang!
A Bulldog, with Remorseless Fang—
A Nip, a Grip, a Deathly Pang.
A Maiden with a started Glance—
A Shrieking for Deliverance—
A kind of weird hilarious Dance—
A pair of Riven Doeskin Pants.
A Maiden feinting with Affright—
A Lover in a sickening Plight—
A Bulldog chuckling with Delight—
A wild, delirious Autumn Night!
The National Bubble.
Bradley blew a great big bubble;
Portly Lucas helped him, too;
Oh. it was a beaming bubble
Bully Bradley bravely blew!
“National picnic I” Bradley shouted,
“All the fash’nables will come;
Entertainment will be tip-fop.
Make the Sydney public hum.”
Fash’nables, they couldn’t sec it—
Camping out for all the week ;
They, in Lucas did consider.
Was a large amount of “ cheek.”
Then the baker and the butcher
Were all told to roll up strong;
Said John to the undertaker,
“ Bring all your live friends along.”
Every guest asked all his tradesmen—
Tailors were of great account;
Ticket requisitions—horror!
Up to millions did amount.
Bradley, Lucas, Want, and Jackey
Met and quaffed the flowing cup ;
Says brave Want to dear old Jackey:
“We shall have to ante-up !”
Then said Lucas to bold Bradley :
“ I’m not rich, and, therefore, sonny.
Fifty pounds I’ll gladly give
In—well—in anything but money.”
All the other trustees cried out:
“We will each one throw our trust up.”
So the National Picnic business
Did incontinently “ bust ” up.
Preachers say a waltz is harmful.
Not at all correct or right j
But if parson had an armful
As I had, old boy, last night.
Pull of life and tender feeling.
Sparkling as a glass of wine,
He would find conviction stealing
That the bugging was divine!
“ Away!” she cried,
“ Away, and hide
Your head ia abject shame, you dunce!
For three hoars now.
You’ve not, I vow.
Offered to kiss me more than once!
The man who pays his court to me
Must osculate more frequentlee.”
T b p )'e is many a gem in the path of life,
_Wmch we pass in our idle pleasure.
That is richer far than the jewelled crown.
Or the miser’s hoarded treasure;
It may be the lore of a little child.
Or a mother’s prayer to Heaven,
Or only a beggar’s grateful thanks
For a cup of water given.
Better to weave in the web of life
A bright and golden filling,
And do God’s will with a ready heart
And hands that are swift and willing.
Than to snap the delicate, slender threads
Of our curious lives asunder.
And then blame Ht aven for the tangled ends.
And sit, and grieve, and wonder.
The Golden Side


T
0 PROPERTY OWNERS AND PROPERTY
BUYERS.
Our PRINTED PROPERTY REGISTER (7th issue)
is NOW ready for circulation.
COPIES mav be obtained at the Rooms, ON APPLI-
CATION, or will be FORWARDED PER POST to any
part of the colony, free of charge.
This issue gives full report of sales made during the
yoar ended December, 1830, in addition to other and
full information,
HAEDIE AND GORMAN,
Property Auctioneers,
132 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE SOUTH SEA. MASSACRES.
|_Bt Nitmar.J
Under this startling heading, your readers often
sup full of horrors.
“During this year you have given the details of
the outrages committed on the crews of the
Esparanza at Coorumbungra, the Dauntless at
New Hebrides, the Ripple at Bouganville; and
no doubt long before this is published, you will
have published an account of the murder of the
Captain’s son and all foreign labour of the Bore-
alis at Malayta, and the murder of a boat’s crew
from the man-of-war Sandfly, at New Florida, as
well as the attack on the boat’s crew of the
German schooner Matilda, at Malayta.
This is, for your subscribers, a very decent bill
of fare for one year ; and from the way the High
Commissioner of the South Seas and the Commo-
dore of the Pacific squadron comport themselves,
“ As the lords who rale the waters,’*
I may with confidence promise your readers many
more delicious morsels of the same kind in the
literary menu for 1881.
Besides the British ships of war in the Southern
Seas, there are, I think, four small war sloops
especially detailed for the protection of British
traders having communication with New Hebrides
and the adjacent groups ; but the only instance of
redress for outrages committed being obtained, is
so unsatisfactory, that it were better that the
Home Government’s eyes should be opened to
this miserable pretence of protection.
Captain Schwartz’s white trader, Bob, was left
at Loongey, on the Guadalcanar Coast, and mur-
dered there by the natives some time ago.
The Danse called, and “ raised Cain ” generally
—from the offing, of course; eventually accepting
in satisfaction of Bob’s most brutal murder, sixty
rings, a few pigs, and a quantity of yams.
Being ashore at Loongey the other day, I had
the pleasure of being escorted to the canoe house
by one of Bob’s murderers.
Outside the canoe house there was a bamboo
platform about six feet high, upon which were
neatly arranged a varied collection of human
skulls —no doubt poor Bob’s amongst them.
I was warned that Bob’s murderder, walking
close to my side, with his long-handled axe oyer
his shoulder, had intimated his intention of killing
another white man soon.
Carefully cocking my Martini-Henry, I asked
him if tiiia was so, and he answered “ Yes,”
with a grin that showed off his black teeth against
the blood-red “ chinaum ” in his capacious mouth
to perfection.
Not wishing to give any of Her Majesty’s ships
of war the trouble of coming to Guadalcanar for
the express purpose of assessing my value in arm-
rings, pigs and yams, I gave Bob’s murderer
fair notice to “ move on ” right ahead —and he
went.
If, on calling where any outrages occurred, you
ask if the man-of-war has called, they invariably
laugh, and give you a graphic account of their
visit.
“ Blenty siz siz! Bum um down hut, kill um
pig, and tchoot cocoa-nut tree.” “No kill um
man?” you ask. “ No, man go long a bush ; man-
of-war he go away; all man come back.”
Several persons have informed me that Sir Ar-
thur Gordon’s Government have enacted a law to
the effect that if a British crew are attacked by
natives they are not to fire upon them in self-
defence, under pain of being taken to Fiji and
tried for murder.
Can such an absurd law ever have been issued P
If so, it means that our pioneer fellow countrymen
are denied the protection the natives get.
Does Sir Arthur Gordon esteem the plaudits of
Exeter Hall more than the lives of British men !
Or does he think that any quasi-philanthropic en-
actments can stop the onward roll of trade and
civilization ? If he does, the sooner he is unde-
ceived the better. Most of the traders in these
waters, instead of flying that boasted symbol of
justice and liberty, the English Union Jack, sail
under French, German, or American colours.
Under these colours the crews can protect them-
selves,and do so, too.
It is high time that our island trade attracted
more attention, and that British traders, as pio-
neers of civilization, obtained the protection they
deserve.
I am ignorant, at present, as to the extent of
the High Commissioner’s jurisdiction over New
Guinea and the adjacent groups of islands near
the Line, but the presence of British ships of war
in these waters presupposes that the Home
Government believe that their colonists hereaway
are protected ; but the one solitary instance of
redress, unsatisfactory as it is, shows the pro-
tection to be very weak.
The general Impression is that the murder of
the “ Sandfly’s” men will rouse the Commodore
into something like definite action at last.
When one thinks of it, there is something
humoursly anomalous in a law that allows a man-
of-war to retaliate if attacked, and prevents a
merchantman doing so —a law that permits men-
of-war to give demi-johns of rum to a missionary
in payment of work done by the natives, to be
sold again to the natives by the missionary, and
prevents a trader from doing identically the same
thing.
No doubt Sir Arthur Gordon, with wisdom,
enacted stringent laws to be observed by traders
in their intercourse with the natives, for no one
with the slightest actual experience of island
trade will for a moment assert that the faults
which bring about outrages are entirely of native
origin. There are traders and traders.
On the legitimate trader —one who is either the
responsible representative of some well-known
firm, or who, on his own account and risk, trades
fairly and honestly—the restrictive laws are
unjust.
But on the “adventurer,” as Mr. MacFarlane
designated those traders to the London Missionary
Society at its last meeting, the law is not strict
enough.
There are men trading in these islands who
stoop to deeds so mean and dishonest in dealing
with the natives as would bring the blush of
shame to the face of the lowest type of German-
Jew from the Minnories, who palm off the paltriest
rubbish as good articles—guns that must burst if
used, bottles of oil half full of water —who debauch
the native women, and are the very incarnation of
all that is mean, dishonest, and unmanly.
Then there are labour traders, vessels under
Government supervision certainly, and the respect-
able trader—“ The Kidnapper.”
In Queensland and our other colonies I have had
experience of the Island labour, and now I know
also by experience how it is recruited here ; and I
unhesitatingly state that in many instances the
“labour trade” means slavery, and nothing but it;
and I consider its continuance to be a blot on the
British flag.
The Coast chiefs capture and sell the bush
natives to the labour agents for trade. In every
instance in which I have met labour ships recruit-
ing, instead of lying at the usual anchorage,
there were anchored miles away from shore to
prevent the natives escaping by 1
An intelligent native at Eapi, New Georgia, who (
had lost his hand by dynamite, told me that some <
time ago he with two others were forcibly taken to
a labour ship in the offing of Maravo, and he bears
the scars of wounds given him while escaping by ,
swimming ashore.
And it is a well-known fact that, if the bush ;
natives escape, the Coast chief, if he cannot re- <
capture them in time for the sailing of the ship, 1
returns the “ trade” paid for them.
The “ kidnapper,” again, is the one who gives
cause for more massacres than all the_ others put
together. The men who practice this lucrative
calling may be met with in their varied places of <
worship when ashore, the most pious of the con- ’
gregation; men who, when on board ship, prohibit
swearing, and stint the crew of the comforts ay,
and even the medicines —which their generous
owner has provided.
For a specimen—With my own ears I heard the
following bargain concluded between an old chief
and a certain captain. The patois -so lucid, is
that of the captain: “Now, you look, see little
fellow piccannini long o’ bush —all same that high
(guaging the height of the desired boy from the
deck with his flabby hand).
“ Umph! ” ejaculates the savage.
“Me come back all same two fellow moon pay
him you musket, tobacco, pipes,allsame stop. That
fellow picannini b’long o’me. Me take him long
a Sydney.” The savage nodded assent; and no
doubt when that skipper comes back the boy will
be there, he will buy him, and sell him in Sydney.
Is this slavery or not ? Not many months ago I
beheld with pride Wilberforce’s monument at
Hull, where the old Yorkshire philanthropist holds
watch and ward over the docks, but I never
thought then that I would see the actual need for
a second Wilberforce; and yet believe me, my
gentle or ungentle reader, we want one badly
tiereaway. . . ~ ,
Now it needs no “ spirit of divination or most
mighty magic,” to forecast the upshot of this
kidnapping transaction. ,
The boy is virtually stolen from his parents (and
it is wonderful to see the love these savages have
for their little ones !) by white men. The result
in the native mind : Revenge, deep and deadly, a
revenge as righteous and undying as that which
eats the better part of the heart of the best of us
when cruelly and irreparably wronged ; and, m
this case, as any white man’s death satisfies, the
first they can safely kill falls a sacrifice to the
kidnapper’s base unmanly greed. _
Now all this kind of thing can be altered. Ihe
native and the trader protected alike.
First of all it will be necessary that these island
groups should be annexed; and the time has
come for this to be done. Looking at the matter
in a pecuniary light, the vast and unlimited stores,
of raw material warrant it done.
Then a Government resident should be ap-
pointed at some central port, which should be
made a port of redress and entry, such a position
as Thousand Ships Bay, on the southern coast of
Isabel Isaland, Solmon Group, where there is a
good anchorage, water, and a healthy position
centrally situated. Depots would be opened if
protection were afforded, and a coaling station
established. .
There would be no difficulty in securing a Gov-
ernment Eesident, such as my friend Mr. Chester,
at Thursday Island, Torres Straits, or the late
lamented Mr. Ingham, of New Guinea, for a man
to fill this position effectively must have more than
ordinary experience.
But if this were done, and done quickly, 1 am
certain that we should no longer be so frequently
regaled with the horrible details of massacres in
the South Seas. . .
Your Bulletin is man s redemption in these
parts.
Limbo, Solomon Islands, Dec. 2, 1880.
LATE SPORTING.
——O— J
The Carthona C.C. beat the Second Oriental 1
C.C.
Tom Adamson, ot the Nationals, kept the ]
wickets well at Brisbane. (
The Petersham Club owes its victories to the '
good fielding of the team.
Hanlan was born on 12th July, 1855, and is
therefore now in his 26th year. i
Camden v. Campbelltown—latter victorious by
one run and two wickets. The Camden bowling was :
very good.
That promising young bowler, A. Leveridge, ot !
the Petersham C.C., obtained 5 wickets for 7 runs in
the match Eedfem v. Petersham.
The following thirteen have been selected in
Melbourne Allan, Cooper, Coulthard, Edwards,
Elliott, Horan, Mackay, McShane, Midwinter, Mus-
grove, Tobin, Trinnick, and Walters.
The following team represents the Northern
districts in the match which is to take place on the
10th and 11th Messrs. Bryant, Clarke, Hall, Tracy,
Lawrence, Morley, Webb, Bignell, Laurie, Sefton, and
Smith.
A one-mile race took place on the Maitland
race-course on Monday afternoon between T. Burke's
Jasperess and J. Whyte’s Saddler, 7st. each, which
resulted in an easy victory for Jasperess by three
lengths.
A foot race took place at Carcoar on Friday
last, between Collard, the local ped., and Smith, from
Queensland, the distance being 150 yards. The local
ped was cellared before he had gone ten yards, and was
beaten easily.
Young Oxford v. Grammar School.—A match was
played between the above at Petersham on Anniversary
Day, the result being an easy victory for Young Oxford
by 8 wickets. Atkinson, of the winning team, played a
good innings for 24.
A pigeon-flying match took place on Saturday
, under the auspices of the Sydney Homing Pigeon
Society. The starting point was Marulan, a distance
of 114 miles from Sydney. Mr. J. Wright’s “The
' Dove” was the winner, with Mr. Wield’s “ Norman"
second.
The Eugby and Aurora clubs met on More Park
[ last Saturday, and the play resulted in a win for the
Rugbys by 9 runs. The bowling of Quinlan for the
• former was excellent, taking 7 wickets for 12 runs.
■ Ferris also bowled well for the latter. The scores were
f 29 and 20 respectively.
i The Croydon C.C. defeated the Kingston C.C.
[ by 53 runs, on Saturday last. For the winners, M'Car-
thy (23), Fellow (22), and for the losers W. Smith (11),
Land (10), were the principal scorers. For the winners
* Bowtell and M. Carroll bowled well, as likewise did
■ W. Smith for the losers.
, A cricket match was played at Moore Park, on
t Saturday afternoon, between the Young Oxford and the
7 Pioneer clubs. The result was an easy victory for the
1 former byl innings and 14 runs. The bowling of Break-
-3 well was very effective, and Cruickshonk (24) and Flet-
. cher (10) batted particularly well.
3 In Mr. Menser’a sweep on the Anniversary Han-
dicap at Parramatta, Mr. Lyon won the £7B 15s. purse
l, of money, and Mr. Scollon, of Baulkham Hills, took
the same amount for the Dean —the first and second
? having been drawn between them, as there was a dead
'* Mr. McCredie, of Pyrmont, got third money with The
i, Knave.
The second elevens of the Carltons and Alberts
played a match on the Oval on Saturday last, which
resulted in a victory for the Alberts by 20 runs, The
Carltons made 66 runs, of which M. Lynch obtained
22. The Alberts scored 86, of which Blair made 26, Q.
Murdoch 24, Heath 18, and Windridge 11. Oi
A cricket match was played at Eandwick last
Saturday between eleven picked men (who frequent
Levy’s tobacconist shop in Oxford-street) and the
Eandwick C.C. The Oxford:street crew scored 11 runs, pc
of which Dr. Turner was ton score with 3 runs. He
also captained the team. Nat. Thompson has a shop in
the same street; perhaps he could get la better team,
and find a captain.
er
A match was played at Orange, on Anniversary
Day, between a team from Wellington and the local
eleven, which eventuated in a victory for the Orange M
club by 1 run and 8 wickets. As may be judged from the
small total of the visitors, the bowling of the local team
was very destructive. Wellington: First innings, 34; j}
second innings, 30. Orange: First innings, 53|; second m
innings, 2 wickets for 12. A
The second elevens of Petersham and St.
Leonards met on the ground of the latter on Saturday pi
last, the game resulting in an easy victory for the lo
visitors by 24 runs. For the former. Baker (18) and al
Wandsley (13) batted in good form, while S. Gelding
and Phil. Dawes bowled with good effect—Sam obtain- p(
ing 8 wickets for 25 runs, and Phil. 2 for 12. For St. j Q
Leonards, Tom Gilfillan, a first-eleven hand, batted and a ,
bowled well. The scores were P.C.C., 61 ; St.
Leonards, 37.
The Oriental and Alexandria clubs met for the a
first time this season at Double Bay on Saturday last — ci
the match resulting in a win for the former by 33 runs, pi
For the Orientals, Patison (24), Luland (13), M’Cann qi
(12) showed excellent cricket, while Downes and M'Cann ft
divided the bowling honours. For the Alexandria
Skeleton (7) played good cricket, and Ellis bowled well.
Lonnds, for the Orientals, excited universal admiration „
for his fielding. The scores were—Orientals, 73 ; Q j
Alexandria, 40.;
A race meeting was held at Lucknow on Anni- d
versary Day. The running on the whole was good, p
although the big money was a walk over. The follow-
ing is a summary of the proceedings : —Maiden Plate:
Glimpse 1, Caractacus 2, Two-up 3. Eesidents Purse :
Gaylad 1, Quandong 2, Moss Trooper 3. Town Plate
Handicap: Try Again 1, Playboy 2; only two started. ■
Ladies’ Purse : Caractacus 1, Little Dick 2; two started, -r
Publicans’ Purse of £2O; Melody, walk over. Forced j
Handicap: Pheasant 1, Gaylad 2, Try Again, bolted.**'* j
The Croydon C.C. defeated the Albion C.C. on
Anniversary day by one innings and 12 runs. The y
scores were—Albions Ist innings, 25; 2nd innings, 17. ti
Croydons, first innings, 54. For the losers, Thomas a
batted well, and for the winners, Pellon 14, M'Carthy 5
11, and Clarke 10, were the principal contributors. The {1
fielding on both sides was very good, as will be seen a
from the fact that only five wickets were bowled in the _
match for the Croydons. A. Dennis and M. Carroll s
were the successful bowlers for the Albions. Campion j
and Thomas bowled well. 'I
A match was played on the Windsor cricket
ground (Moore Park) between the Oriental and Ivanhoe a
clubs on Anniversary Day, and it resulted in a victory j
for the former by one innings and 18 runs. The c
innings of the Orientals closed for 114 runs, out of r
which Luland obtained 35, Thompson 32, Ellis 13, and j
Patison 12 (not out). The Ivanhoes, in their first j
innings, made 70 ; and in their second 26. Edmondson c
batted well in both innings. Downes and M'Cann 1
bowled very well for the Orientals —the former ob- \
taining seven wickets for 13 runs, and the latter eleven 1
wickets for 34 runs. e
Trickett has written a letter to Mr. Hill, wherein *
he speaks highly of the honest good-nature of his mate, c
Elias Laycock. He thinks it will be a hard fight 1
between the latter and Hanlan, but by strict attention
to training and condition, Elias can win. He promises c
to assist with all his knowledge and power to bring 1
about that result. He will not return to Australia for (
some time, and contemplates tackling Hanlan in {
America' before July. He claims to have beaten Boss 1
fairly in his first race with him, and accounts for his 1
defeat in the row-off through a cold in the loins and r
kidneys, which he caught during the Hop Bitters t
Begatta. £
A match was played last Saturday on the Peter- j
sham ground, between the local club and Ist Eedfern ,
C.C. Owing to the little rain which fell on Friday, the j
ground was in splendid order, the wickets playing very (
well. The Eedfem men, who played three short, went £
first to the wickets, and when the last wicket fell, only ]
41 runs were made; Sweetman (22, not out) and Mihell s
(12) being the only two who obtained double figures. s
A. Loveridge, bowling with great effect for Petersham,
took 5 wickets for 7 runs. The local team, in their ]
innings, made a much better stand, only losing 5 wickets
for 169 runs; Eoberts (93, not out) playing a fine, though
rather lucky innings; J Seale(2o),'Wilman(l9,notout), 1
and A. Loveridge (13) also showed good cricket.
National C.C. beat the Oxford in a match i
played on Anniversary Day on the National Ground.
The match was decided in the first innings in favor of ■
of the Nationals by 44 runs. The Nationals made 98
runs, of which Evers made 39 and Carroll 18. The Ox-
ford (owing to the excellent bowling of Watkins and
Vial) only managed to make 54, of which Phelan played
well for 20 ; the wickets were all that could be desired,
and the fielding on both sides was splendid. The
National again beat the Oxford on Saturday last on the
National Ground, National, 62, of which Evers made
16 and Dutton 12. Oxford, 34, of which M'Hale made
21. Slattery bowled well for the Oxford; the bowling
of G. Watkins, 9 wickets for 13 runs, and Duncan for
the victors, was excellent.
Another porridge-eating contest at Enfield.
Since Eeynolds, the van-driver, was vanquished by old
Dick Brown, a few more aspirants have come into the
1 field. Last Saturday Bill Lane and Long Tucker, the .
tannery-man, faced the porridge-bowl at Louie Cor-
vette's for £2 a-side. Bill looked fresh and confident,
1 although his nose showed signs of severe training, but
5 Tucker looked perfection, and certainly bad the appear-
, ance of being able to “ stow away ” about forty quarts
I of porridge. Lane caught the porridge first, doing
about 40 strokes to the minute, but Tucker went
I at it steadily, and it was soon apparent that his backers
had picked the right man. At three quarts. Lane com-
’ menced to look pushed, while Tucker had a merry
[ appearance about the face —but his figure was very
3 much like that of a young dog after a big feed of milk.
Lane stuck gamely to his opponent, but was eventually
' compelled to give in, and the stakes were handed over
1 to the tannery-man amidst cheers. Alderman Sturt
1 was referee. These contests are becoming very popular
3 at Enfield, and several are now talked of. Efforts are
being made to induce Dick Brown to try conclusions
l with Tucker, and a match will probably be the result.
7 !
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially oh matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
of interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
The statement that valuable and handsome
wedding presents were made by certain theatrical
gentlemen to the daughter of a lady critic, proves to
be a misrejjresentation.
So it turns out that Mr. Henry Newton, com-
mercial traveller, has really no connection with that
Elizabeth-street tragedy. The active tongue of slander
is always ready to attack an innocent man.
Sir W. H. Gordon, Bart., is rusticating in
Murruiundi. At the annual general meeting at the
School of Arts there Mr. Memes, the ex-secretary,
complained that Sir William “had an edge on him.”
The ancient Baronet remorked that it was razor a
mistake on Mr. Memes’s part, wuereupon the meeting
broke up in confusion.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Professor Jacobs bas been “ entertaining” at
Cudal.
Raphael’s English Opera Company opened at
Albury on February 2.
Bland Holt and his wife (Lena Edwin) are very
popular at the Eoyal, Melbourne.
The Williamsons open in “Pinafore” at the
Eoyal with a strong operatic caste.
Miss Annie Barclay is playing a very successful
engagement at the Eoyal, Adelaide.
The desire to hear Charles Turner, the new
tenor, will be quite sufficient to fill the Masonic Hall at
Miss Christian's concert next Tuesday.
Mr. John Apple, who first brought the German
Band to Sydney, some years ago, and who was band
master of the Armidale Band, is now travelling with
Ashton’s circus.
Williamson is determined to protect his new
piece with the same legal watchfulness with which he
looked after “ Pinafore.” He won’t have any pirates
about “ Penzance,” except those with the trade mark.
“ Zulu Thompson” came up to this office, and
perpetrated the following atrocity “ Those Zulus who
lose sight of my Zulus will never do anything Zu-low
again.” Since this, we have longed to wade in his gore.
The Austrian Band gave a successful concert at
the Masonie Hall on Friday last. We, however, defer
a detailed criticism on their pei’formances until our
critic has attended their concerts, which are now taking
place in the old Exhibition Building—a structure
quite adapted to the capabilities of a large and power-
ful orchestra.
“ Jack the Giant Killer” is still making the
audience shriek. On Saturday Joaquim Miller’s play,
“The Danites,” will be produced, an extended notice
of which remarkable play will appear in our columns.
Mr. J. J. Wallace will supervise the production of the
drama, and the cast will, we are informed, include some
powerful performers.
The programme of Mrs. Howitz’s concert, at
the Town Hall, Melbourne, includes the names of
Mesdames Hersee, Cutter, Christian, Madame Tasca
and her pupil, Ada Willets, Melbourne Liedertafel,
choir of St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Messrs. Farley,
Lamble, Moroney and Staker. Accompanists—Lee,
Edison and Zelman. Musical conductor Alfred
Plumpton. MacDonald, manager.
Mr. Zulu Thompson is again on the war-path.
We say on the war-path because the diorama of the-
talented William positively bristles with rifles, bayonets
and torpedoes. He opens at the School of Arts on
Monday (see advertisement), and gives away a house
full of furniture, and a jeweller’s shop full of jewellery
at every entertainment. The people will, of course, go
—who wouldn’t; and we particularly recommend this
show to newly-married couples who are gradually and
deliberately furnishing. Philip Stuart is the agent.
This fact should be enough to fill the front seats.
The initiatory concert of a series to be given in
aid of the Sacred Heart schools took place in Darling-
hurst Hall on Anniversary Night, Messrs. Ambrosi and
Charles Curtis officiating as conductor and accompanist
respectively. The following well-known artists ap-
peared : Mrs. Eiley (vice Miss Long), Miss Newcombe,
Messrs. Hinchy and Bushelle, in addition to members
of the Sacred Heart choir. Mrs. Eiley sang excellently,
her rendering of the ballad) “ I cannot say good-bye”
being exquisite. Mr. Hinchy sang “ Smile and bid me
live” with his usual success, and Mr. Bushelle was in
excellent voice. His rendering of ‘‘My boyhood’s
home" and “ Kit the cobbler” stamps him as an artist
of first-class excellence. The hall was crowded, and a
large sum was realised for the benefit of the schools.
It would be superfluous, on our part, to give a
detailed criticism of the performance at the Gaiety.
The two little pieces, “ The Deal Boatman” and “ The
Old Story,” are played in a manner which is to a great
extent above criticism. Mr. Frederick Marshall, the
moving spirit, is a conscientious man. A conscientious
man is, with the strides civilization has made —a phe-
nomenon. Mr. Marshall’s conscientiousness is that of
the artist, and throughout the whole of the perform-
ance are perceptible the benefits of his intelligent stage-
managership. We say this with pleasure because it is
true; and the more true a thing is, the greater
pleasure we have in saying it. With regard to the com-
pany, we will not individualise. We will pick no one
out, when each is so excellent, so painstaking, and so
anxious to contribute to the general artistic success.
Large houses have been the rule at this theatre; and
so long as the performances are up to their present
standard, over-flowing audiences will be the reward of
the exertions of an intelligent management and a very
bright particular star. Why say more ?
The Sydney Musical Union gave the third con-
cert of their fifth subscription season, at the Masonic
Hall, on Thursday evening, the 27th instant. The hall
was crowded, which may have been principally owing
to the fact that, in addition to the excellent programme
which is always put forward by this Society, the ser-
vices of the well-known vocalist, Miss Christian, had
been secured. This lady has achieved a great refuta-
tion in the colonies and England as a ballad-singer, bnt
the songs she selected for this occasion—“ Caust thou
believe?" by Giordani, and “My dearest Heart,” by
Sullivan—were not suited to her style of vocalisation.
The substitution of the simple ballads, “ Oh! ye tears,”
and Auld Eobin Gray,” would have been far more
acceptable to the audience, and would have given her
more scope to infuse that peculiar pathetic quality
with which her voice is gifted. She was encored in
both numbers : for the first, she gave the hackneyed
song, “ Twickenham Ferry,” with great archness and
expression, and for the second a song called “ Twenty-
one,” which partakes of the character of a motto song,
but in its rendering the lady almost dispensed with the
qualities of her singing voice, in order to enunciate too
clearly the sentiments conveyed in the words. A
young lady sang the solo for soprano in Mendelssohn’s
“Hear my prayer” very fairly, the chorus performing
its part very well—though as a whole this sublime
piece has been much better performed at a previous
concert by the Society. Mr. Sydney Moss played
several solos on the pianoforte, and took part in. two of
Mozart’s instrumental quartettes. Mr. Moss is a
thoroughly conscientious performer; he does not aim
at the over-stylish effects produced by most great
pianists, but simply renders the music as it is written.
He is perhaps the best exponent of the classical piano-
forte school that we have heard in Sydney. A little
piece by Eafl, entitled “Abends,” was very delightful,
as also Eubinstein’s “ Valse Caprice,” and a “ Ballade ”
from Wagner’s “ Flying Dutchman.” As an encore for
the latter he gave a piece by Ghys—a composition of
the time of Louis XIII. The quartettes were remarka-
bly well played, the strings being well in tune, and Mr.
Moss was in his element at the pianoforte. The tune
of the cello was a little rough, but it did not interfere
with the general excellence of the performance. Mr.
Bushelle gave a solo from Gounod’s “La Eeine de
Saba,” and showed a vast improvement upon his form
in the Messiah concert. He was in excellent voice, and
especially so in the solo, which, from its difficulty,
requires artistic finish and a perfectly tuneful voice to
S make it acceptable. The solo throughout was given
j with careful enunciation and artistic expression, and in
the concluding cadence, his deep and sonorous notes
1 were heard to great advantage. He sang Donizetti s
“ L’addio ” with Miss Christian, but, though the voices
j kept well together, they did not blend, and at times
there was a difference of opinion as to the pronuncia-
• tion of the Italian, one being certainly at fault. A
’ gentleman amateur sang White’s “No tongue can tell ”
• in a pleasing manner, displaying the possession of a
' sweet and clear tenor voice. The concert concluded
with a rendering of Hauptmann's motet tor quartette
and chorus, “Source of all Light,” which reflected
credit upon all concerned.


*
458
S
ESTABLISHED
P O W L E E’S P
AND
BEICK WOB
CAMPEEDOWN, NE.
Price List on appli
M
G N E Y.
UNION LOAN AND DISCC
762 George-street (Fir
Three doors from A. Hor<
Hours: 9to 5; every ev«
MONEY ON EASY
Advanced on machinery, Farms,
Freehold Properties (without exp
MONEY ADVANCED upon PI
SECUEITY: repayable by install
£lO by weekly instalmenti
W
20
*
30 „ „
And in due proportion up to £lO
SPECIAL NOT
For the convenience of borro’
their business during the day, t
opened every Monday, Wedne
evenings, from 7 to 9 p.m.
M
ONE Y.
MONET
TO SMALL FEEEHOLD AN
PEOPEIETOE
MONEY L E
on Mortgage of properties in sr
upon the weekly, monthly, and <
system.
6d in the £ instalments taken.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, v
of a mortgage, for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION 1
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760
market, three doors from A. Horde
Government Advert
Department of Mil
Sydney, 25tl
“NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FO:
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that
execute and take delivery
tioned Gold-mining Leases withi
this date, they will be declared t
Hunter and Macleat Mini
No., 381; E. Clegg and others; P
County of Gloucester, parish of Br
plication No., Copeland 176.
No., 382; John Eose; Portion N
of Gloucester, parish of Bindera; 2
No., 177.
No., 383; A. Eedman and others;
County of Gloucester, parish of Bii
plication No., 188.
No., 384; J. Maguire; Portion N
parish of Bindera: 10 acres; Applici
No., 385; E. Suiter and others; P
Caledonian Eeef, parish of Bindera:
tion No., 339.
No., 388; James Armstrong; Poi
County of Gloucester, parish of Bin
plication No., 145.
No., 389; N. Craddick and oth<
525 gl ; County of Gloucester, parii
Application No , 153.
No., 390; James Wilson and otl
440 gl ; County of Gloucester, paris
Application No., 156.
No., 391; E. Earley and others ; I
Left-hand Branch Back Creek, paris
Application No.. 185.
No., 412 ; G. M'Nee and others; P
Eose and Thistle Beef, parish of Bin
plication No., 233.
No., 413; G. W. Eedman and otl
509 gl ; County of Gloucester, paris!
Application No., 237.
No., 414 ; Thomas Crennan; Por
Eesetta Eeef, parish of Bindera; 3
No., 245.
No., 415; David Londan and ano
498 g1; County of Gloucester, paris
Application No., 256.
No., 416; James Grieve and anot
257 gl ; Queen of Beauty Eeef, paris!
Application No., 264.
No., 420; C. O. Mahoney and otl
266 gl ; Germania Eeef, parish of Bin
plication No., 473.
No., 421; August Johnson and otl
272 gl ; Bank Eeef, parish of Binder
cation No., 490.
ATOOMBA! KATOOMBA!
Messrs. EICHAEDSON and WEENCH
have received
instructions from the proprietor,
P. CLISSOLD. Esq.,
to sell, on
PEBEUAEY 12,
FEBRUAEY 12,
PEBEUAEY 12,
a portion of this
MAGNIFICENT ESTATE.
The following
ADDITIONAL and IMPOETANT FACTS
are now furnished.
THE PEOPEIETOE
has decided on reserving a portion of the estate for a
TOWNSHIP,
facing the Eailway Station,
to be called
THE KATOOMBA TOWNSHIP.
What has induced Mr. Clissold to found
THIS TOWNSHIP
on this
PATICULAE SPOT?
The fact that here are to be had
IN ABUNDANCE
the very best description of
COAL
KEEOSENE SHALE
FIEECLAY
MAEBLE
TIMBEE
BLUE METAL
SANDSTONE FOE BUILDING
CLAY FOE BEICKMAKING
THE PUEEST OP WATEE,
and the enticing advantage of a suitable soil and climate
on the high land for
ANY KIND OF ENGLISH FEUIT,
and on the low portions for
TEOPICAL FEUITS.
The altitude, 3100 feet, preserves a
PUEE ATMOSPHEEE,
and FEEEDOM from
MOSQUITOES and SANDFLIES.
Although this estate has been for many years
LOCKED UP,
there are on it,'erected in a substantial style, the
following PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
A POST OFFICE,
A TELEGEAPH OFFICE,
A LAEGE HOTEL, in course of erection,
A PUBLIC SCHOOL, projected,
BUTCHEES’, BAKEES’, and GENEEAL STOEBS.
THE ESTATE
will be THEOWN OPEN
EVEEY SATUEDAY,
until the announced
DAY OP SALE.
?AEES—EETUEN, Ist class, ELEVEN SHILLINGS.
Ditto, 2nd class, FIVE SHILLINGS and SIXPENCE.
PUECHASEES
nust remember this—that the Proprietor will refund
n them
ALL EXPENSE INCUEEED
)y them in journeying to
VIEW THE ESTATE.
LITHOGEAPHS
nay be obtained from
MESSES. EICHAEDSON AND WEENCH,
bout the end of this week.
THE TEIP
s a most enjoyable one, apart from any intention to
ray. The latter will come as a matter of course
AFTEE VIEWING
he Estate, and trying the magnificent
ECHOES.
KATOOMBA. KATOOMBA.
SALE DAY—l2xh PEBEUAEY NEXT.
Professional Addresses
M
E.
R- S. L A Z
ADDRESS ;
Professional— Theatre Eojal.
Private —“ Qeta," Queen-street, Woollahra
MR- J- R. GEEVI L L B.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
Me. l. m. b a y l e s s.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereasrh-street, permanently.
Me. peed. m aeshall.
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
MISS MTEA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS •
eud April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October—Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
E. & MES. HAEEY W. EMMET,
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS • 7
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
E. M. S A L A M 0 N.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
Misses alice and constange
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS:
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
ME. AND MES. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
M
M
Philip stuaet,
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDRESS;
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney
M
R- J. C. WILLIAMSON,
ADDRESS:
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
rjl HEA T E E ROYAL.
Lessee... ... ... ... ... ...Mr. Sami. Lazar
THIS EVENING,
afld until further notice,
T. W. Robertson’s Brilliant Comedy,
SCHOOL.
Characters by Messrs. G. S. Titheradge, Edwin Shep-
herd, H. H. Vincent, Frank Cates, and Arthur Gamer,
Mrs. Marion Stammers. Mrs. George Gordon, Miss
Nellie Playfair, Miss L. Beverley, Miss A. Hughes,
and Miss Blanche Stammers.
NEW SCENERY BY GEORGE GORDON.
ACT I.—RECREATION. ACT 2.—EXAMINATION.
ACT 3.— FLIRTATION. ACT A—REALIZATION,
Popular Prices—Dress Circle, ss: Stalls, 3: Family
Circle, 2s ; Pit, Is.
Box Office at Elvy and Co.’s, 321 George-street, where
Plan of dress circle can be seen and seats secured.
ARTHUR GARNER, Manager.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and
Greville.
Musical Director Mr. Chas. Austin
LAST NIGHTS,
LAST NIGHTS,
of the
most successful PANTOMIME
ever produced in Sydney.
JACK, THE GIANT KILLER,
JACK, THE GIANT KILLER.
. A CARD!!
Mr. Greville, gratefully acknowledging an overflowing
treasury, has much pleasure in announcing that for the
concluding performances,
CHILDREN UNDER TWELVE
will be admitted for
ONE SHILLING
TO ALL PARTS OF THE HOUSE.
FRIDAY, 4th FEBRUBRY,
will Positively be the LAST PERFORMANCE of the
PANTOMIME.
SATURDAY, Sth FEBRUARY,
THE DAINTIES.
Q. AIE T Y THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Baylees and John Solomon.
SIXTH WEEK OF
MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL.
This Evening, and until further notice,
THE DEAL BOATMAN. THE DEAL BOATMAN
THE DEAL BOATMAN.
MR. FREDERICK MARSHALL as JACOB VANCE.
To be followed by H. J. Byron’s Original Comedy,
in two Acts,
THE OLD STORY.
Mr. Frederick Marshall as WAVERLEY BROWN.
No Bonnets or Hats allowed in Orchestra Stalls.
Prices of Admission.—Private Boxes, £2 2s; Orches-
tra Chairs, ss; Stalls, 3; Balcony Stalls, 2s; Pit, Is.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
SCHOOL OP ARTS
Lessee Mr. W. H. Thompson.
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7,
re-opening night of
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR
of the
WAR IN ZULULAND,
received on its last representation by Crowded and
Delighted AUDIENCES, and pronounced by the
entre Press to be the NE PLUS ULTRA of ME-
CHANICAL and SCENIC ART.
The Sydney Morning Herald says “ The best exhi-
bition ever seen in Australia.”
TELBIN’S BEAUTIFUL PICTURES OF THE
DEFENCE OF RORKE’S DRIFT.
The Daily Telegraph says .—“The mechanical portion
of the diorama is constructed with marvellous cunning,
and far excels anything of the kind ever shown in this
city.”
PRETORIA, the SCENE of the BOER REBELLION.
The Evening News says“ The Battle of Isandula is
pictured in a marvellous manner.”
One of the best Dioramas ever shown here.
WATERLOO BRIDGE BY MOONLIGHT.
The Echo says:—“Those who have not seen this
triumph of mechanical art, have really missed a treat.”
THE WONDERFUL TORPEDO EXPLOSION.
The Bulletin says“ The pictures are painted with
a care and finish that are positively refreshing to be-
hold.”
FOUR THOUSAND MOVING FIGURES REPRE-
SENT LORD CHELMSFORD’S MARCH TO
EKOWE.
The Express says " The pictures are exquisitely
painted, and rarely have anything equal to them been
exhibited out of England.”
Gordon and Harford’s Magnificent Picture of
THE BATTLE O* 1 ULUNDI.
Sydney Punch .—“The pictures are splendidly painted
and are fine examples of the excellence to which the
scenic art has reached in the old country.”
The Freeman’s Journal says:—“For general treat-
ment of subjects, artistically drawn scenery, vividness
of colouring, and selection of exciting events, we have
never seen any exhibition of the kind to equal it.”
THE DEATH OF THE PRINCE IMPERIAL.
The Brisbane Courier says “ The gallant defence of
Rorke’s Drift was so realistic as to call forth a cheer
from the large audience assembled.”
THE DUTCH SYSTEM OF FIGHTING.
The Brisbane Telegraph says .—“ As a work of art,
the Diorama is of great merit.”
THE FUNERAL PROCESSION OF THE PRINCE
IMPERIAL PROM WOOLWICH TO CHISEL-
HURST.
THE USUAL DISTRIBUTION OF PRESENTS
will take place at the termination of the performance.
On MONDAY, February 7,
one of the presents will consist of a
MAGNIFICENT UTRECHT VELVET SUITE OF
FURNITURE,
valued at 30 guineas.
Doors open at half-past 7; overture at 8 sharp.
Prices of admission—3s, 2s, Is. Children half price
to front and second seats only.
Sole Proprietor Mr. W. H. THOMPSON
Agent PHILIP STUART.
AiiLjcjo u. Treasurer.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
A, S. N. CO.'S WHARF.
Sydney, January 14th, 1881.
I have much pleasure to inform my CONSTI.
TUENTS and the general PUBLIC that, in consequence
of the large INCREASE in my BUSINESS. I have ar-
ranged with my brother, Mr. WM. WILKINSON (late
manager of the Kirkton Vineyard), to act in coniunc-
tion with Mr. D. MURRAY, in Sydney.
I am now placed in a position to largely EXTEND my
VINEYARD, and devote the necessary time to the
growth and maturing of my WINES.
ADDITIONAL CELLARS
have been engaged in a central position, and will
SHORTLY be ANNOUNCED.
I am pleased to again have an opportunity of thank,
ing my NUMEROUS FRIENDS and SUPPORTERS
for their very LIBERAL SUPPORT during my BUSI-
NESS CAREER in Sydney.
JOHN A. WILKINSON.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
HELLYER,
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
JJOOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
(3 70 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT THE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS :
H. H I L D E R,
670 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
King street
IS THE
GREAT CENTRE OP ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Boa Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
the Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET.
MOUNTAIN SITES,
WOODFORD RAILWAY STATION.
CHOICE SITES, adjoining the Celebrated WOOD-
FORD ESTATE, and oly 10 minutes walk from the
WOODFORD RAILWAY STATION.
RICHARDSON and WRENCH have received
instructions to sell by public auction, at the
Rooms, Pitt-street, on FRIDAY, 18th FEBRUARY, at
II o’clock.
FOURTEEN SITES at WEST WOODFORD. BLUE
MOUNTAINS, as follows
SECTION I.—Lots 1 to 5, FIVE BLOCKS, from 2
acres 0 roods, 15 perches, to 4 acres 3 roods 7
perches, in extent.
SECTION 2 —Lots 1 to 9, NINE BLOCKS, from 1
acres 1 rood 28 perches, to 6 acres 0 roods 37
perches.
This sub-division is one of the finest in the
Western Mountains, only 55 miles' run by train from
the city.
The sites have all the eastern slope, and command
magnificent charming views over the country eastward
right on to the metropolis and the great Pacific Ocean
bevond.
The sub-division is so arranged that on each lot there
is a site for a residence and area for orchard and pad-
dock.
The water supply is permanent.
TERMS VERY LIBERAL.—-One-fourth cash de-
posit ; Residue, 6, 12, and 18, months WITHOUT IN-
TEREST.
The plan of sub-division is now on view at the rooms,
and the land has been carefully laid out by Mr. Surveyor
Parrott, of Pitt-street.
LITHOGRAPHS in COURSE of PREPARATION.
r r*HE SYDNEY LEGEE, 188 1.
and the HAWKESBURY HANDICAP.
FIRST and ONLY
CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
500 SUBSCRIBERS AT 20a EACH.
A Consultation on the above events is now open.
mmediate application, BY LETTER ONLY, on usual
terms.
The following will he the distribution
First Horse £250
Second too
Third 50
Starters (dividedamong) ... 50
Non-starters ... ... 50
Subscribers will please state for which consultation
hey enter.
M. MENSER, Parramatta.
BAND
AT THE
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
SECOND GRAND PERFORMANCE
FRIDAY EVENING. Pebiua-y i.
THIRD GRAND PERFORMANCE,
SATURDAY EVENING. Februarys.
FIFTY FIRST-CLASS INSTRUMENTALISTS.
Admission -53, 3s, 2s. Promenade, Is. Plan atElvy’s,
Doors open at 7.15 ; commence at 8.


Blacket and Davy.
119 BATHUEST STEEET, SYDNEY,
ENGINEERS AND IMPORTERS OF MACHINERY.
«
3
M
PS
02
* ?
«z; h
o §
® o
°p'-'
M
Sole Agents fok Messrs. Tangte Bros., Birmingham.
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATING PUMPING MACHINERY.
Engines and Boilers of all sizes.
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Forges, etc.,
IN STOCK.
ALLDAT’S BELLOWS,
Miscellaneous
OLIFFORD, LOYE AND (Jo.,
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, and now are
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES—Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE—Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Peaberry
Do. „ Nos. 1 and 2.
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPER—White and Black
OFFICES 348 GEORGE STREET,
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
JOHN DANES,
IMPOETEE OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrro, Sanitary Ware
Gasfittings, Globes, Electric Bells, Pumps,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, &c.
119 LIVEEPOOk STEEET, SYDNEY.
g GLASSO N’S
STEAM COACH AND WHEELWRIGHT
WORKS,
Haebis-stbeet, off Gboege-steeet,
and
Adjoining the Darling Harbour Railway.
S. G. would beg to draw the particular attention of
Export Merchants to the large quantity of Dressed
Spokes always on hand, which would ca&se a great
saving in freight to purchasers in comparison with
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stock a large quantity of
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express Waggons, Lorries,
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G. begs also to notify that he is the Builder of Iron
Carts, and has supplied the Government and the various
Municipalities with a large number.
STEPHEN GLASSON,
Harris-street, near Eailway Bridge.
c
OALCLIFF COAL.
When first sold In Sydney (twenty months ago) the
lowest payable price was fixed FOB THE TON —22401 b.
net, not only in view of the foreseen reduction in price of
Newcastle Coal, but also of a prejudice against a new
coal, and its low price—a prejudice strongly fostered by
trade rivals. However, houesl and punctual dealing*
have gained it a fair trial and a steadily increasing de-
mand; and now I have received from numerous cus-
tomers, who have fairly tried it, numerous written certifi-
cates stating that for either
DOMESTIC PURPOSES, STEAM ENGINES, BBICK
KILNS, LIME-BUBNING and SMITHIES,
it not only saves, compared with any other kind of Coal or
fuel commonly used, from 20 to 40 per cent, in price and
durability, but also produces a fire unequalled for GRILL-
ING, BOASTING, and IRONING, being freer of soot, no
sulphur, clinker or splinter. Therefore, as all engineer*
well know, boilers, tubes, fire bars, &c., will last much
longer by using it; and all classes declare that when they
get used to its management they prefer it to every other
kind of coal, wood, or coke ; and ACTUALLY A Dfr
MAND IS SPRINGING UP FOE SMALL COAL to BANK
NEWCASTLE COAL FIEES.
1 ton —22401 b. net—delivered in town:—
18s. Best double screened
17s. Ditto single ditto >■ Coalcliff-
16s. Ditto heap ditto, for engines )
235. Ditto double-screened \ w ewcaß tie.
225. Ditto single ditto )
Small coal by special agreement.
Wood and Charcoal, &c., at current price.
A. B. BLACK,
247 George-street.
GREER A)ND
PEI Z E
C O.’S
ALB U E Y
Eed Wines:
Burgundy
Carbinet
Shiraz
Malbec
WINES.
White Wines:
Eeisling
Verdeilho
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay
CELLAES;
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
DNEY: Printed and published by the^Propr I ®^
ohn Haynes and J. P. Archibald, at the
ohn Woods fit Co., Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous
"nETSDALE AND EOBEETS,
397 George Street,
76, 78, 145, 147 York Street,
33 Pitt Street
lEONMON GEES, lEONMEECHANTS, AND
IMPOETEES,
Invite attention to their extensive stock of Goods,
which besides being the largest in Sydney, is the most
varied; and comprises all the latea productions in—
Engines Engineers’ Material and Tools
Agricultural Implements, Threshers, Harvesters,
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material, Eims, Spokes, Hubs
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lamps, Leather, Laces, Ac.
Founders’ Material, Pig Iron, Ac., Ac.
Builders’ Ironmongery, Chandeliers, Mantelpieces,
Brass Foundry, Locks, Hinges, Ac. Ac.
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire, Galv. Iron, Woolpacks,
&c., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled Joists, Iron, Steel,
And
GENEEAL lEONMON GEE Y.
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Waxjjut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
w
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
MACHINERY DEPOT.
H. P. GREGORY AND CO.,
No. 11, PITT-STREET,
Importers of all Descriptions o
MACHINEE T,
Have for Sale—
J, A. Fay and Co.’s First Special Prize Wood-working
Machinery—Sydney Exhibition 1880
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pumps (all brass lined)
Rubber and Leather Belting, Raw-hide Lacing, genuine
tucks packing round and square
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines—Foot Power Lathes
Rock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery Oil, Rubber Hose, best
quality quabaktekd, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars and Prices.
118
KING
STREET
m
SYDNE
TAILOR
m
i
■M
Ler
ANb POST OFFICE,
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
W*tUMkTir\
-S® TO
FIT GUARANTEED!
fivy handwork.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
DR. TAYLER’S
SARSAPARILLA
AND
QUINETUM WINE.
First Prize awarded
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.
Wm. tayler $ CO.,
Proprietors and Manufacturers,
175 PITT STEEET, SYDNEY.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street, next comer
King-street. Established 1859.
J EYES’ PERFECT PURIFIER (PATENT)
Noil-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest Antiseptic, Detergent, and Deodoriser
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in the world.
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : iH*#;
from Dr. Dansey ; Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for household purposes, and should be patronised
by all classes of Society. from Eev. Geo. Woolnough, M. A., Ash field: —for a lotion and gargle
for my throat I could not desire anything more effective and satisfactory than Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sydney .-—Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier has no
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Newton, Esq., M, D., Mudgee:— Jeyes’ Perfect
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing agent, and deserves public patronage.
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney: —My child had sore eyes for years, and Jeyes’ Purifier cured her in
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence, andJaques, solicitors), Sydney: —For des-
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and fruit trees, likewise as a disinfectant, Jeyes’
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles—Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-street. Wholesale only from W % N.
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (.184) Pitt-street, Sydney. Sole Agent for Australia'for
Jeyes’ Sanitary Comuonnd Company (Limited), London. Agents wanted for the Country.
vanted for the Country.
OUE CELEBRATED SHIRTS
'READY MADE,
’from 30s. the half-dozen.
SMITH & MANNELL,
THE ONLY
PRACTICAL SHIETMAKEES
IN THE COLONY.
298 GEORGE STREET,
Near Hunter-street.
u
c*
oc
PRIZE
Q_
OC
eo
Against the world
E, Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Teh First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1579-80.
O
o
umsi
W
*
These goods are
fresh, wholesome,
and genuine. The
Exhibition Judges’
Eeport says:—
“ Deserving of
special notice. The
quality is fully
equal to imported;
they are well and
tastefully got up."
m
CO
a
TSDTTtn
g I N G E R'S
GENUINE SEWING MACHINES
ALL FORMER TEARS OUTDONE.
The SINGER Manufacturing Co, Made and Sold 431,167 of their Celebrated SEWING
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any previous year.
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NOW IN USE.
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twenty-five years standing employing
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and that any Machine sold by the Com-
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly what it is represented, at REDUCED
PRICES —£6 10s. Cash. Tm „ wu
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—ss. Deposit and 2s. per Week.
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Birmingham Goods.
G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.), No. 1, HUNTER STREET,
(One Door from George-street, SYDNEY.)
T
HE UNIVERSAL LOGISTICS SEWING MACHINE
Have you not heard of it? Have yon not seen it? It is the very best of its kind, and may be
tested against any other.
Sold on Easy Terms—TlME PAYMENT or any other convenient mode of payment.
Accessories, such as Needles and Oil, supplied at reduced rates—Repairs done—Machines exchanged.
Inspection invited.
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY (Next ’Bus Company’s Waiting Room).
Sole Agents for Australasia —FARLEIGH, NETTHEIM & CO.
Martin & Pain,
ARE DOING THE
in LAWN MOWERS „
LEADING BUSINESS
& CARDEN TOOLS\
We keep
every-
thing.
ONLY
THE BEST
Mowers
Our prices
are the
lowest.
ji ept in Stock. Free Trial
at Home iff requested.
Now is the Time
Our X to Purchase. VV e keep
mcHms\° om * * Se X ~//*/»*
X finra X
of EXTRA
Now is the Time
to Purchase.
Come & See
_ Ours
are the very
BEST & CHEAPEST^WEARING PARTS.
389 George Street
OPPOSITE ROYAL HOTEL.
< .y
WWW
MARTIN & FAIN, 389 George-st.
