

THE BULLETIN
Vol. s—No. 55.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1881.
Price—3d.
§tilletiii.
SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 12, 1881.
Licensed Iniquity.
The laws, unequal as they are in their operation,
do not as a general thing license iniquity. But
when the administration of the laws devolves
upon persons incapable of appreciating their
spirit, something very much like that may result.
There are perpetual inequalities in the decisions
given by the unpaid Magistracy, which make such
an expression as “even-handed justice” a mere
form of speech. Custom has a prodigious in-
fluence over people’s minds, however. The
grossest wrongs, the most glaring anomalies, ap-
pear ordained by Nature to persons who have
become habituated to them. The miller, accus-
tomed to the horrid clack ot his machine, wakes
when it stops at night, and, sleepless, inveighs
against the disturbance which silence creates for
him. The ordinary vagaries of the pigmies whom
a corrupt and depraved system have elevated to
the seat of Justice are seen without surprise or
emotion. Society has become so accustomed to
hear of unfit persons being placed upon the roll of
Magistrates, and to observe decisions given ac-
cording to individual caprice, instead of reason-
able consistency, that they have almost come to
regard such things as due to some natural rule.
It takes a considerable shock to arouse atten-
tion to the fact that unreason and inequality
cannot, after all, be proper concomitants of true
justice. An instance has just occurred which
brings the defects of the existing system into
strong prominence. A creature at Parramatta,
occupying a decent position as a retail tradesman
and semi-public office as secretary of an Orange
lodge and as bandmaster, has been found guilty
of shameless obscenity on a number of occasions.
The details, we are told, are too disgusting for
publication. The victims of this beast’s pru-
riency have been a number of little girls. His
offence is consequently of unspeakable grossness.
Not content with keeping his own mind in a
seething condition of foulness, he has endeavoured
to befoul the ideas of tender children of that sex
to which purity of ideas is especially becoming.
Yet this offender, when found guilty, has been
permitted to return to his business—and his
pleasure—after paying to the Treasury the sum
of ten pounds. Assuming that “various times”
may signify ten occasions on which he had assailed
the eyes of children with his filthy antics, this
would be just one pound per indulgence. Is this,
then, to be accepted as a tariff for bestiality, as
fixed by the magistrates who adjudicated ? Is it
to be understood that well-to-do citizens, whose
tastes run in the direction of filthy actions, may
indulge their propensities, and besmirch the bud-
ding minds of their neighbours daughters’ at twenty
shillings a time, so long as their funds hold out?
If so, foulness will soon become numbered among
the recreations of those who can afford it, .and
whose inclinations run that way; and men will be
sent to gaol, not because they are unfit to associ-
ate with society, but because they are short of
cash to pay for license to go and offend again.
It was only a day later that a wretched wench was
sent to gaol for two months for filching a trumpery
locket. Is the offender who snatches a bit of
jewellery, then, less fit for association with free
humanity than the criminal whs despoils young
girls of their native modesty P JLockets may be
replaced at every tenth shop ; but the purity of
idea, the childish innocence, once taken away, can
never be restored. lago's maxim comes forcibly
to mind—“ Who steals my purse, steals trash;
’twas mine, ’tis his, . . . but he who filches
from me my good name, robs me of that which not
enricheth him. and leaves me poor indeed.” The
wrong which the Parramatta scoundrel committed
“ not enricheth him,” but it left his unfortunate
victims “poor indeed;” —and all repaid by ten
pounds—ten of his boxes of cigars! “ A Daniel
come to judgment! ” We say a bench of
Daniels !
Viewed from the Outside.
The San Francisco Call, an American journal
that has always exhibited the greatest friendship
for England, quietly puts this view of the Irish
difficulty before the world: —“ Turning to France,
where the land is mostly in the hands of small
tanners, we have a picture of happiness, content-
ment, and progress. France keeps her people at
home better than any other nation in Europe, and
does so without any law against emigration. The
French people feel that they have an interest in
the country. They not only hold the land, but
they have a controlling voice in the Government.
There is no body like the British House of Lords
standing between the people and the execution of
their will. The French Premier described the
condition of France at the Montauban banquet in
terms which, applied to any other European
Power, would have provoked derisive comment.
Said M. De Freycinet on that occasion: ‘ The
situation is quiet at home and abroad. Abroad it
is peace, profound peace—peace without boasting,
as it is without weakness. At home there is
calmness and security, industry and financial
prosperity without precedent, commercial and
industrial activity exceeding calculation, and a
material order which nothing disturbs.’ This was
said of a people who are as impatient under
wrongs as the Irish, and whose terrible punish-
ment upon former rulers sent a thrill of horror
through the civilized world, and yet gave the best
lesson in the logic of government that it has ever
received. The lesson it then taught was
misgovernment was a crime for which no penalty
was too great; while the lesson it now teaches is
that tranquility and prosperity result from a good
administration of good laws.”
The Honorable Thomas Holt, M.L.C.
It was rather irreverent of old Horace —in the
first days of Cmsarism, too—to tell their Excel-
lencies the Roman Consuls, their Reverences
the Flamens, not even excluding the Pontifex
Maximus, their Worships the ADdiles, and the
Brethren of the College of Augurs, that their love
of money was their great weakness, that they pre-
ferred it to virtue, and worshipped Plutus with a
sincerer devotion than any other member of the
Olympian host. Not content with these sarcastic
generalizations, he broke into a rougher strain
when he chanted: —
Omnis enim res, i
Virf us, fama, decus, divina humanaque, pulchris
Divitiis parent.
It is very likely that in his days everything— j
virtue, glory, honour, things divine and human —
was subservient to riches; nor is it to be aup-
posed that the world has since lost its ancient
love of greed, or its veneration for those who
possess ample fortunes. Certain transcendental
teachers in our own day designate money as the
root of all evil, and dub lucre (which Literally
means gain or profit) “filthy.” It is, however,
well worthy of note how deftly these high-toned
moralists and exponents of the other-world philo-
sophy manage to adapt themselves to the exac-
tions of civilized life—including fine raiment and
good living, neat equipages, or at least staunch
saddle-horses, elegant pleasures, and refined inter-
course—not always “ the feast of reason and the
flow of soul,” but with a lofty contempt for com-
monplace worldlings. In estimating the real
value of wealth, whether inherited or acquired,
the man of balanced mind will adopt a golden
mean in forming his opinion of its real or
intrinsic worth. In this as in other things
a middle course —in medio tutissimva ibis —is
the very best to follow. The transmuting spirit
of moderation changes what would be a curse
to some into a source of blessing when well
employed. Reason is the autocrat that subdues
inordinate desires, and Duty is the monitor of
Reason. Dives cannot manage more than three
luxurious meals a day, and if he looks too fondly
at “ the wine that is red,” he is sure to soon have
chronic bilious headaches and a general sense of
seediness, while hungry Lazarus has the healthful
appetite of an emu or an ostrich. The historic
page is not much illumined by the festive spreads
of Belshazzar, Sardanapalus, King Herod, or even
by the round table of the paladins of Charlemagne,
at which sat those famous Gascons, Sir Roland
and Sir Oliver, who vied with each other in
mendacious narratives about their respective
doughty deeds. The accumulation of riches by a
wise and thrifty man is often made the means of
permanently benefiting mankind Think of the
founders of British schools, British hospitals—
charities of all kinds. Think of men and women
like George Peabody, of the Baroness Burdett-
| Coutts, of the Montifiores, and of our own Challis,
or the Victorian Wilson, and you will come to the
conclusion that the sands of Pactolus may be
beneficently employed. Every Midas does| not
conceal an ass’s ears. Why do we indulge in
this homily ? Because we are about to
give a sketch of the career of a man,
who is reputed to be enormously wealthy
and to show —if only to set a bright
example to spendthrifts—what may be done by
one who knows how to use without abusing the
gifts of fortune, or the gains of his own fore-
thought and industry. The Hon. Thomas Holt,
M.L.C., is the son of a wool-stapler of Leeds, in
Yorkshire, and was born at Horbury in that
county, in 1811. He received the rudiments of his
education at a school in Wakefield, conducted by
Dr. Cope, and probably read Goldsmith’s famous
story in view of the vicarage. His father must
have been a prompt and practical man, as he put
his son to business at fourteen years of age; for
which the latter showed a singular aptitude,
inasmuch as he was appointed buyer for his father’s
firm in London when he was only seventeen years
of age. Reflective, observant, and persevering,
he determined to qualify himself for the highest
position as a wool merchant by taking up his resi-
dence in those countries where a thorough know-
ledge of the staple could be best acquired. He
devoted nearly six years to this educational
process, during which he lived alternately in
Germany, Austria, Hungary, and Spain. He
entered his father’s firm as partner in 1832, and
ten years afterwards immigrated to Australia,
where he carried on his special business for
thirteen consecutive years with remarkable
sagacity and success. During this period he
purchased large pastoral and agricultural proper-
ties, besides investing to a considerable amount
in banking and insurance corporations. He may
be looked on as the sponsor, if not the father, of
tint epic monetary success —the Mutual Provident
Society. On retiring from business (1855), he
determined to devote his well-earned leisure to
the service of his adopted country, and accordingly
entered the political arena in 1856, the first year
of Responsible Government, and succeeded in his
candidature for the Stanley Boroughs—now the
city of Brisbane and town of Ipswich. Mr. Holt
at once took an active part in promoting needful
reforms —more especially in reference to Primary
Education. He was certainly the first man, under
free institutions, that attempted to galvanise the
duplex moribund system which prevailed up till
1860. When he took office as Treasurer in
the Donaldson Ministry, alter he had regulated
finance matters and thoroughly re organised his
Department, he turned his attention to the
Educational question. We have now before us
two speeches delivered by Mr. Holt on the subject,
and we must candidly acknowledge that his views
were then (1858) far in advance of some of his
contemporaries, whose pretences have been since
excessively eulogised. \V e regret that the claims
On our spade will not permit us to give
even a resume of Mr. Holt’s conclusions on
the subject of Primary Education, but they
embraced sound teaching for every child
in the country by certificated educators,
payment by results, money prizes, free-places
in Colleges and High Schools and at the
University, and promotion in the Civil Service for
youths of superior merit. A review of the
speeches now, twenty-three years after their
delivery, would be exceedingly interesting, and
not without valuable suggestiveness. Mr. Holt
represented Newtown for a cosiderable time—in
fact, till 1866. He afterwards visited Europe,
and during a two years’ tour collected a number of
works of art. all of them good—some of them rare
and very valuable. It would not be becoming
in these columns to dilate on his well-known
liberality to all the public charities, and to most
of the churches ; but we can more unhesitatingly
bear testimony to the support he gave to journal-
istic and periodical literature in the colonies. He
lost a small fortune in his endeavours to keep the
Empibk newspaper afloat at
“ A goodly time,
For it was in the golden prime.
Of Editor Henry Parkes"
He also liberally helped to start the Month
magazine, and contributed to every periodical of
merit published in the colonies. The solid quali-
ties of his mind, although he is a poor speaker,
make him a power in the U pper House, where he
is respected for his intelligence and integrity.
His career illustrates the moralizing with which
we began this sketch, and proves that a state is
permanently enriched whenever its wealthy men
cling to it in their affluence, and work hard for its
progress.
D’Albertis on New Guinea Ladies.
Our readers are aware that M. D’Albertis, the Italian
explorer of New Guinea, and who was so popular in
Sydney, has written two splendidly-illustrated volumes
of his travels in that island.
At Epa, a chief, inimical to him, was practis-
ing divination through a tame serpent, D’Albertis struck
terror into the hearts of the natives, and proved himself
the better sorcerer by secretly setting fire to a little
gunpowder which he had strewn over the ground.
After this exhibition a reconciliation was quickly
THE HON. THOMAS HOLT, M.L.C.—(Photo, by Freeman)


effected, and sealed, more itdHeo, with a kiss, which
must have astonished u people who are accustomed to
rub their noses t >gether as a sign of affection: —
“To sho v that I really meant to be friendly
with Air* aud his people, I embraced and kissed
him in the open place in the village, and after-
wards, amidst general laughter, I proceeded to
kiss all the women/ The scene was certainly
a very comical one; some of the most timid
wanted to repel my embrace, but were urged by the
others to submit. Although it was incumbent on me,
in order to prove my impartiality and to Hve a ceremo-
nial appearance to the performance, to kiss all the old
and ugly women, in reality I kissed the youngest and
prettiest only. The men also wished to seal their
friendship by a kiss, but I explained to them that only
the chief and the women had a right to this observ-
ance.”
But lest the reader should faucy that this ceremony
may have proved in any way repulsive to the author, it
is right to add that in many parts of his work he speaks
of the comeliness, attractiveness, and even beauty of
the women. One of them, whom he calls a Papuan
Venus, he describes as follows: —
“ I shall not soon forget her beautiful eyes, which
were a marvel of beauty and vivacity, nor her good
manners, nor the air of intelligence in all her gestures
aud words. She burst out laughing when she saw her-
self in my looking-glass, and then put on a necklace I
had given her.”
“ It is to be presumed that this girl, who “ need not
have been afraid to compete with many a fair European
in beauty,” was amongst the crowd whom Signor
D’Albertis treated so impartially.
The Railway Ceremonials.
THE OPENING TO DUBBO.
(FROM THE CONDENSED NOTES OF OUR OWN.)
Sydney to Dubbo, 270 miles.
Total cost (from Parramatta), £3,200,000.
First sod turned July 3, 1850.
Opened to Parramatta September 26, 1856,
Opened to Bathurst, April 4, 1876.
Opened to Wellington, 1880.
Opened to Dubbo, February 1, 1881
Principal works—Nepean Bridge, Zig Zag, Bathurst
Bridge, Wellington Bridge.
Eailway demonstration brilliant affair. Three trains
—ordinary, Ministerial, and special.
Ministerial train contained Sir John Eobertson, Hon-
F. B. Suttor, Sir P. A. Jennings, Hon. C. Moore, Hon.
John Smith, Hon. W. H. Suttor, Messrs. Alex. Stuart,
W. Hay, E. Barton, E. Barton, Martin, Abigail, Kidd.
Hezlett, Garvan, Purves, Poole, Lloyd, Melville, Cass,
Withers, M.P.’s, and Messrs. J. M. Marsh, Cowper,
Henniker Heaton, Tarplee, Rogers, &c., Ac.
Ministerial train also contained the following dis-
tinguished ladies:—Mrs. Ninian Melville and Mrs. John
Davies.
At 12.10 p.m. Ministerial train drew up at Dubbo
railway station. 3090 present. Great cheering. Ee-
ceived officially by Mayor and Mr. W. E. Morgan.
Procession to Dubbo Park a grand display—Mounted
Police, under Suh-Inspector Granger; the Bathurst
band; the Mayor’s carriage, with Ministers and district
members; the aldermen; the Odd Fellows, Good
Templars, Sons and (particularly) Daughters of Tem-
perance, Bands of Hope and Courage, and the Great
Nondescript, to the total number of 5000.
Arrival in the park. Addresses, mutual congratu-
lations ; school children sang “ God Save the Queen;”
free lunch in bushy pavilion, where two bullocks roasted
were served np with bread, Ac., od lib., also beer. This
free lunch was a failure, consequence of impossibility
serving 2000 people at a time.
Grand banquet Masonic Hall. 300 present. Mayor
of Dubbo, Mr. G H. Taylor, in chair, and Mr. T. A.
Browne, Police Magistrate, and Mr. J. Penzer, J.P., in
vice-chairs.
Speeches tolerable—principal speakers, Mayor, Sir
John Eobertson, Sir P. A. Jennings, Messrs J. Penzer,
and T. A. Browne, Hons. F. B. Suttor and W. H.
Suttor, Messrs. W. E. Morgan, E. Barton, E. Barton,
C. Cowper, Marsh, Fitzgerald, and Alex. Stuart.
At night fireworks, railway celebration ball at Masonic
Hall very successful. Belles of the boll; Miss Marsh,
Miss Greville, Miss Duguid. Best dressed ladies : Mrs.
Penzer, Mrs. Fitzgerald, and Mrs. Calvert.
Ministerial train left Dubbo at 2.30 a.m.; arrived in
Sydney at 2 n.m.
Thanks, Mr. Traffic Manager Bead, ditto Mr. Engineer
Burnett, ditto Mr. Caterer Smith.
And thanks Mr. Mayor Taylor and Mr. W. E. Morgan,
without whom there would have been no railway to
Dubbo for the next five years
THE OPENING TO ALBU[?]Y.
Sydney to Albury, 386 miles.
Total cost from Parramatta,(£3,4oo,ooo.
First sod turned July 3,1850.
Opened to Goulbum May 27, 1868
Opened to Albury Feb. 3, 1881.
Principal works, Menangle Bridge, Picton Tunnel,
Wagga Wagga Bridge.
Contractors for las- section, Cornwell and Miiner.
Railway celebration passed off well.
Three railway trains entered Albury.
Sir Henry Parkee, Hon. John Lackey, and 15 Mem-
bers of Parliament were present from New South
Wales, and Hon. Graham Berry; and Hon. Mr. Patter-
son, from Victoria.
Addresses and replies.
Declaration of opening, by Hon. John Lackey in ex-
cellent speech.
Banquet in marquee adjoining station. Mr. Edmon-
ston. Mayor of Albury, in Chair. Parkes to right, Graham
Berry on his left; other luminaries around. Principal
speakers. Sir H. Parkes, Sir P. A. Jennings, Hon.
J. Lackay, Mr. G. Day, M.L.A., Hon. J. Patterson, Mr.
James Hayes, Mr. John Whiteman, M.L.A., and Mr.
Mixner. Some of their speeches were eloquent and
argumentative.
Procession a notable affair. Oddfellows, Foresters,
Good Templars, Hibernian Society, Ac., with efficient
bands.
Grand ball at night in goods shed; 700 present The
belles were Miss M., Miss 8., and Miss H. The most
charmingly dressed ladies were Mrs. E.. Mrs. M., Miss
C., and Mrs D.
Ministerial party returned to Sydney next afternoon.
An Exciting Publication.
It can never be said of The Bulletin that it is
not willing to devote a portion of its columns to
giving a contemporary a turn. Sometimes the journals
we notice are properly grateful, and country editors
have been known to cull from their neighbors’ gardens
the choicest flowers and forward them to us (carriage
to collect) for the decoration of our inlaid ebony
escritoire. Other papers, however, strange to state,
don’t seem to appreciate our good nature, and before
now (it seems almost incomprehensible) conductors of
even metropolitan journals have evinced a desire to pelt
with boulders the editors who have endeavored to send
their little rags along. Undeterred, however, by this
base ingratitude, we once more proceed to notice a
newspaper, which has, for the first time, found its way
to our office. We discovered it one morning, hiding in
a modest manner behind onr Etruscan caraffe, and im-
mediatelv pounced npon it with extreme avidity. It is
a very small monthly publication entitled The Banner
op Teeewbth, and is on the whole a journalistic terror.
Its managing editor is the Bev. F. Hibberd, while the
person who looks after the spons. would seem to be
(r. G. H. Knibbs, who is not “ reverend" at all. Per-
sonally we have not the pleasure of knowing who his
knit ns is; but we are certain that he is physically and
intellectually capable of looking after all the
money that poors into his residence on ac-
count the Baptist Banner. There is one
editorial in this funny little paper, which about opening
the School of Arts on Sunday. The eloquent scribe
says: “ And iT. is also assumed that men have a right
to spend the Sabbath according to their wishes. And
further, that it is an experiment yet to be tried,
whether such a way of spending the Sabbath is good or
otherwise. But all these assumptions are contrary to
revelation, to the laws of human nature, and to the
facts of experience.” Now, somehow, this writing
smells of muffins. There is a tea-cake flavor in the
style, and a buttered-toast smack about the argument.
The rev. gentleman then proceeds in this wise: “We
have discovered, after inquiry, that the multitudes who
attended the Museum when it was first open to Sunday
visitors were actuated by idle curiosity, and we are quite
sure if the reading-room of the School of Arts were
open on Sunday the great majority would resort there
to find a convenient way of kiUing time, and who could
reasonably expect that this would result in the re-
pression of evil and the growth of good ?" Comment
is, of course, needless. We wonder whether the
estimable readers of the “Banner of Terewth" swallow
all this Chadbandism with the some facility that they
do the vespemal crumpet. One more extract, and we
will conclude this little notice. There is a taJe in the
issue before us called “ Little Johnnie.” At the close
of this pathetic story, the writer says : “ Dear children,
are you afraid to die? Go where Johnnie went.”
Onr tip is: Dear children, don’t you! Caution is
everything. Wait till you get a pose card from little J,
before you decide. Altogether, the “ Banner of
Terewth ” is a very strange index of the march of
civilisation. However, as it has lofty aspirations, and
its price is only 2d. per month, long may it linger.
SOCIETY AMD FASHION.
A Campbelltown belle baa captured a Post
Office official.
Those Victorian belles return still disengaged.
Sydney competition too severe.
Miss Hourigan to be married on Tuesday to a
wealthy surveyor. Great preparations.
A clever Newcastle assayer has yielded to the
charms of a belle from another colony.
Several of the stylish girls of Newcastle are on
a visit to the city. Two return —engaged.
Three more heiresses at Balmain— young, well
educated, handsome, good-tempered girls.
The marriage of a leading Jewish lady to a
Christian gentleman is to be hushed for three months.
The daughter of a gallant captain of Newcastle
is to be married to a Maitland gentleman this month.
Lady Augustus Loftus has issued cards for an
"At Home," on Saturday next, at Government House.
Many who accepted invitations for Mrs. Frazer’s
ball on Tuesday evening went to Miss Christian’s concert
first.
Last week an unusually good dance was given
at the house of one of the principal residents of the
Glebe.
A Burwood organist is to play the wedding
march shortly for himself and a pretty songstress in a
local choir.
A bewitching belle of Darlinghurst and a be-
witchingly rich pastoral king are about entering
partnership.
Another Jewish wedding. The daughter of a
Wynyard Square merchant to a young commercial
from Brisbane.
Parramatta fashionables affect Manly at this
season. There are quite six Parramatta families lo-
cated there now.
Mr. M'Kellar gave an enjoyable fishing excur-
sion down the harbour last Saturday to a pleasant
party of 40 or 50.
A gentleman in the Harbours and Eivers De-
partment is to be married shortly to a handsome
syren from Kiama.
The eldest son of a retired M.L.A., residing at
Darling Point, is reported to be engaged to a young lady
living on the Paterson.
A gentleman of the Jewish persuasion, residing
at Forest Lodge is reported to be engaged te the accom-
panyist of a suburban musical society.
The favourite song with a Stanmore belle (a
lady with a beautiful voice and fine figure) was “ I’m
alone.” She is to sing it no longer,
A marriage has been arranged between an
English gentleman and the amiable daughter of R. G.
Massie, Esq., of Chesterfield, Waverley.
Some fair daughters of Maoriland are in Sydney,
and it is said their charms are irresistible. Fortu-
nately, some of them go on to Melbourne.
A young lady residing in Victoria-street, and a
young and handsome gentleman in the Survey Office
are shortly to be united. Great preparations.
The daughter of a wealthy and retired con-
tractor residing in Upper William-street, is affianced to
a leading mercantile gentleman in George-street.
A grand fashionable Jewish wedding is to take
place at Melbourne on the 23rd, All the invitations
over here have come —with extra postage to pay.
One of the Bank of New South Wales officials
will shortly lead to the hymeneal altar the youngest
daughter of a wealthy Bondi resident. About £15,000.
Quite a show of Braidwood girls in Sydney just
now. The heiress has aged considerably since her last
visit, but the " Bellevue fairy” looks as charming as
ever.
Miss Morse, the daughter of the inventor of
the telegraph, was married recently to Mr. Rummel,
the celebrated pianist. They are now on a wedding
tour in Europe.
At the silver wedding of Mr. and Mrs. Millard,
of Washington, recently, a cake baked for the original
bridal twenty-five years ago was served in an excellent
state of preservation.
Two young ladies, dressed in light blue silk,
blue gloves, blue shoes, and with blue eyes, accompanied
by an American gentleman, were an attraction at the
Austrian Band concert.
The estimable wife of one of our District Court
judges gave a very enjoyable dance on the 2nd inst. A
number of the ffiite was present, and the company
generally was youthful and sparkling.
The marriage of a well-known Woollahra belle
(the adopted pet of a celebrated M.L.C., and owner of
many stations) is arranged with a gentleman of poetical
fame. She is down for £3o,ooo—so report says.
It is not very much to the credit of the Austra-
lians—and it is a stigma they should not long labor
under—that young Englishmen are more proficient in
dancing and much better up in ball-room etiquette than
their colonial brothers.
Mr. Harry M'Mahon, the well-known amateur
cornet player, son of Mr. T. M’Mahon, M’Mahon’s
Point, Lavender Bay, was married last Monday to Mias
Flora Chauncy, a young lady from India, and who
arrived in this colony recently.
It is understood that the popular wife of one of
the leading members of the legal profession intends
foing home shortly, and purposes commemorating her
epartnre by giving a grand party, which, it is to be
hoped, won’t clash with another promising one in the
immediate locality.
The Empress of Germany is reported to consider
the match of her grandson. Prince William, with
Victoria of Schleswig-Holstein as altogether beneath
his just pretensions, and she is said to be wroth at the
boy’s other grandmother. Queen Victoria, for en-
couraging him in his courtship.
Mr. M. Carmichail-Smith writes saying that the
news of the projected marriage between the Duke of
Buckingham and Miss Kate Carmichail, daughter of
Hon David Carmichail. published in last week’s Bullk-
tin, is not correct. The affair is merely a rumour, for
which, however, there might some time since have been
some grounds.
The belle of Parramatta has transferred her
charms to the classic regions of Potts’ Point. She was
at the local School of Arts before leaving, and one
Adonis fainted outright at the railway station. It is
also stated that eleven Civil servants furnished medical
certificates, on the day of her departure, that they were
unfit for duty. Ah me
The ex-mercantile gentleman at Newcastle,
whose engagement was announced a few days ago, has
a brother, who also leads to the altar of sacrifice (we
use this word by way of variation) the daughter of an
old resident of the Hill, Newcastle —whose sister, by
the way, is engaged to a bank manager residing not a
hundred miles from Coonamble.
One can scarcely help noticing the disappoint*
ment that clouded the looks of the young gentlemen
who invaded the block during the recent wet days, at
having hardly a solitary representative of the gentler
sex worthy of passing their t ccustomed remarks upon.
Something really has influenced their non-attendance
on the block lately, even on the fine days. They can’t
be all out of town, and they were never afraid of the
notice of The Bulletin. The leader of extreme fashion
from the heights of William-street has returned from
Melbourne, and her appearance in public again will no
doubt create an interest in onr fashionable promenades.
A double wedding at St. John’s shortly; for two
p«tif« sisters who reside in Upper William-street are to
be shortly led to Hymen’s altar —the elder by a well-
known amateur sportsman who has lately got promo-
tion at Narrabri, and the younger to a gentleman in
one of our leading banks. The happy couples intend
spending their honeymoons at Parramatta, on route to
Melbourne.
“ Beatrice Melton’s Discipline ” is the title of a
new novel, published by Sampson Low A Co. The
authoress’ name is given as Maud Jane Franc. We
should not notice it only an English paper states that
it is a religious tale, and the heroine an Australian
schoolmistress, who undergoes several severe trials,
the result of which, and of a happy marriage, is to
confirm her piety.
At a private wedding party held in a Pitt-street
ball-room, last Thursday evening, some very pretty
dresses were noticed. One young lady wore a very
pretty shade of lavender, with seven bows mixed with
Bretonne lace. Another lady, the young wife of a New-
town resident, wore a pretty shade of mauve French
mnslin, trimmed with mauve silk, with bows of cerise
ribbon mixed with rich Bretonne lace, and particularly
light looking for the occasion.
That lawn tennis picnic was a very enjoyable
affair, and was fashionably attended. The girls were
very pleasant company, and at least four engagements
are set down as the result up to the present. Two
Waverley belles, they say, are among the winners, as
also a tall and handsome lady who was very attractive
in a white polonaise over a black and cardinal skirt.
The daughter of a wealthy George-street book-seller,
who can be silent (when she likes) in four tongues,
looked quite charming.
At the Dubbo railway celebration the leading
ladies of the district were represented at the ball,
which was opened by a quadrille, the Hon. F. B. Suttor
dancing with Mrs. Taylor (Mayoress), hiving as their
vis-a-vis the Mayor, who danced with Mrs. W. E.
Morgan (wife of “ Will Honeycomb’’). The pro-
grammes were specially admired. They were simple
but appropriate. The frontispiece represented a rail-
way train running through a triumphal arch, on which
were inscribed the words, “ Welcome to Dubbo.” The
dresses, without an exception, were in exquisite taste,
and showed that the modiste’s art is not unknown in the
far north-west. The Mayoress was dressed in black
satin, trimmed with pink satin. It was a superb dress,
and the lady looked particularly well. Two sisters
(twins) from the Macquarie excited special attention.
They were attired in cream coloured silks, with caps to
match, and were voted the belles of the evening.
Another dress that attracted not only attention but
admiration was of cream silk, trimmed with ruby
velvet and gold fringe. The dress, however, of the
evening, was worn by the charming wife of a solicitor
and ex-alderman. It was plain white silk trimmed
with pompadour silk, and the colours were blended
very artistically—not to» glaring or in any way calcula-
ted to offend the eye. It suited the lady very well.
Another dress that attracted general attention was a
cardinal silk, made with a jacket bodice. It was by
some considered rather too loud —a sin against aestheti-
cism ; but still it came in for much admiration. Two
bright daughters of Judah (sisters) were magnificently
dressed.
THE LAST MINUTE.
Where is Skuthorpe ?
Five to two on Hanlan.
Another doctor for Campbelltown.
All the theatres and the School of Arts, capital
business.
Miss Christian’s concert at the Masonic Hall,
brilliantly successful.
Match in Sydney with the Australian Eleven —
March 4,5, and 7.
The Australian Eleven defeated Wellington—
-1 innings, 21 runs to spare.
E. Hall has taken Arthur Gregory’s place in the
Intercolonial practice team.
Special omnibuses for the suburbs will run for
the Christian-Turner concert on Friday, and family
tickets will be issued.
The dome of the Garden Palace weighs, all told,
500 tons. It is .stauncher now than when erected.
Here’s the right kind of architecture.
Since the Eev. Dr. Ellis has taken office as the
new Precentor of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, a very marked
improvement is noticeable in the choir.
Sydney team to meet the Northern and Western:
Messrs. Allan, A. and C. Bannerman, D. Gregory,
Massie, Roberts, Wearne, Hiddlestone, Evans, Garrett,
Jones —with Nunn, 12th man.
Young Albert Manders was over from Melbourne
this week, endeavouring to arrange a swimming match
between Corbett, of Sydney, and MTudoe, of Melbourne,
for £2OO aside. Corbett afraid.
And so the secretary of the German Commission
has this time given his five sweethearts, at Melbourne, a
successful slip, having arrived in Sydne,. He maybe
frequently seen in the direction of Parramatta.
A mutual angling between the head master of
one of the leading Public schools in the northern
district and the head lady teacher of the same establish-
ment has resulted in a shortly forthcoming marriage.
It is computed that eighteen oolumns of news-
paper correspondence, four cross libel actions, fifteen
family disputes, a good lot of illegal threats, Ac. Ac.,
are the results of the poisoning of a dog at Campbell-
town. Poor Toby!
So distracted have the Campbelltown people
become, and so divided against itself is the township,
that we are (in response to a general invitation) think-
ing of sending a representative down to tell the whole
story in a Bulletin ballad.
Dr. Yause, one of the ablest surgeons in Sydney,
is a candidate for the position of honorary surgeon to
the Hospital for Sick Children, Glebe. Dr. Van«o has
disingnished himself in the home hospitals, and has
been the means of introducing Professor Lisber’s anti-
septic surgery into the Sydney Infirmary.
For the match, Northern r. Western Districts,
the following are selected as the team to represent the
Western District:—Messrs. Smith and Woods, from
Mudgee; Meyers. Gaud, Booth, Matthews, and Hayes,
from Orange; Sweetrnan, from Dennis Island; Downs,
from Dubbo; and Turner, Smith, and M’Donald, from
Bathurst.
Our London correspondent writes ; —“ A Fleet-
street publisher—Jackson, of the Boys of London, and
Fireside Companion —contemplates starting a paper
on the model of The Sydney Bulletin. No such paper
exists in England.” [Think of that, ye Australians!
The world comes after us. We said from the start that
we meant to hold this planet. — Ed. Bulletin.]
The Singer Manufacturing Company.
The Singer Manufacturing Company, sole makers
of the celebrated Singer sewing machines, have an
active capital of over .£4,000,000 invested in their
business. At their various factories in America
and in Europe they give employment to 7000
artisans, and turn out over 10,000 machines a
week. They have established 2500 branch offices,
and, in the commercial department, utilize the
services of over 40,000 employees. Their sales
exceed half-a-million machines annually—said to
be three-fourths of all the sewing machines sold in
the world. For the greater convenience of their
Australian customers they have recently opened
depfits at No. 1, Darling Stores, Harbour-street,
Sydney, and at Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide,
and Auckland. Of the enormous business already
done in the colonies, the public is pretty well
aware.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Turner, tenor, Thursday.
Mr. and Mrs. Hewett played to good houses at
Orange.
Eoyal pantomime, Melbourne, great suocess
Crowded nightly.
The Leon Minstrels, at St. George’s Hall,
Melbourne, still making a pile.
At Mrs. Howitz’s farewell concert in Melbourne
over 1800 persons were present.
After the Eoyal pantomime, Miss Myra Kemble,
with Leake, open a dramatic season at Melbourne.
Miss Josephine Deakin, the charming soprano,
makes her debut at the Royal inopera-bouffe shortly. ’
“ La Fille dn Tambour Major ” greatest success
of the season at Melbourne. Seats retained weeks
ahead.
Cole’s Circus opened in Melbourne on Saturday.
Over 10,000 persons visited the giant show in the
afternoon and evening.
A return picnic is on the tapis, to be tendered
to Mrs. Marshall and her talented husband. Sans
Souci is the rendezvous, we believe.
The Kelly and Leon Company are drawing
crowded houses in Townsville. They played “ Pina-
fore ” to a £6O house. "La Fille de Madame Angot,”
“ Les Cloches de Comeville,” and “ Chilperic ” were to
be played by the company at Townsville, and Charters
Towers was afterwards to be favored.
Horace Lingard has gone out! Up to the last
Horace endeavoured to keep up the idea in the public
mind that he was the victim in the Pinafore disputes.
Before the Auckland Insolvency Court, he swore
that he had played “ Pinafore ” seven weeks before
Mr. Williamson purchased the right of production;
but the facts show that on the 29th April the news of
Mr. Williamson’s purchase was cabled to the Ae«cs,
while Horace first appeared in “Pinafore” on the 7th
June. These facts are well-known here and in Mel-
bourne, but not in Auckland —thought Mr. Lingard.
However, Mr. Brett, of the Auckland Stab, knew the
whole facts of the case, and before Horace left, to pre-
vent further trouble, he deposted 200 so vs. in his hands
or Mr. Williamson.
Williamson in tends spending some money over
the production of “Pinafore" and " Penzance” at the
Royal. “Pinafore" on the 19th with the following
caste: —Mrs. Williamson, as Josephine : Miss Annie
Taylor, as Buttercup; Mr. Armes Beaumont, as
Ralph ; Signor Verdi as the Captain; Mr. J. H. Smiih
as Boatswain; and Mr. Williamson as Sir. Joseph.
The chorus numbers fifty, the largest yet organised
here Signor Giorza will conduct, and he will have a
full orchestra. The “ Pinafore” s> ason will be a short
one. The Pirates of Penzance follows, and it will be
brought out in magnificent style: the wardrobe is the
most elaborate and complete ever brought to the
colony. The public will be allowed a view of the dresses
shortly. Mr. Gordon is designing two new scenes.
The music is charming.
LATE ENGLISH ITEMS.
[By AUSTRAL.]
Hiscocks is in London, a “ stone broker.”
Baker and Farron are expected back in England
shortly.
Drury Lane (“Mother Goose”) is pronounced
the best pantomime.
“ Charley” Yemer is in London, looking out
for talent for the Cape.
Laycock is very quiet, but we shall hear more
of him before the 17th.
It froze hard on Christmas Day in England, but
the cold did not last long.
Mr. Henry Braoey still manages the stage of
the Globe Theatre, London.
Charley Lett (“handsome Charley”) was very
conspicuous at the boat races.
The results of the two shows at Sanger’s
(Astley’s) on Boxing Day realised £BOO.
Lots of people say they could spare “Jules ” or
Isaac Levy, better than Barnett, his brother.
Mr. James Carden lives in Kennington, London,
S.E., and wants to visit Australia, but declines the risk
himself.
“Mickey” Wallace was in the company at the
Surrey that supported Dampier. He talks of revisiting
Australia.
Lots of people are after the colonial right to the
“Pirates of Penzance.” Williamson has forestalled
everybody.
Mr. J. B. Howe will not sail for Melbourne till
June or July. Knuckey, his agent, is in high feather,
and will leave in April or May.
“Dick” has arranged for a cablegram the
moment the rule nisi is returned in Sydney, and will
marry an Australian lady the day it arrives.
Thatcher is in treaty with John Douglas for the
colonial right to play “ Delilah” and other pieces on
behalf of Mr. J. H. White, husband of Miss Myra
Kemble.
Mr. Belton has fallen into a good thing, and
manages for the Yokes. He looks as pink as a rose.
Tinsley Bros, bought his “ Eeminiscences,” which are
praised.
London laughed when it saw in The Bulletin
that George Rignold was returning to Australia, with
Miss Ellen Terry as leading lady. Mao comes it rather
too strong.
Mr. Dampier achieved a substantial success at
the Surrey Theatre, London, and is now (Dec. 30)
living in retirement, and attending his father, who is on
the point of death.
Miss Ellen Akhurst, daughter of our deceased
pontomime writer, plays the principal part in her hus-
band’s J(Mr. Edwin Prance’s) pieces at the Pavilion,
Gravesend. Her brother Arthur is in the company.
The Sydney papers containing Trickett’s tele-
gram to his friends on the 13th Nov., saying that h«
was “ all right and confident of success,” came to hand
yesterday, and caused lots of fun along the river. The
general impression here is that an "old cow” could
have pulled better.
Messrs. “ Bob” Paterson and George Lingard
arrived by the Mataura from the Bluff with their
panorama, “Icelandia,” in December. They are getting
new scenes painted in at the hall next the Standard
Theatre, and open in Glasgow shortly, but the chances
of success are considered small.
“ The Australian Mammoth Minstrels ” practi-
cally disbanded in Bristol, where Brown, Newland, and
Wallace left the company for the London Music Halls
The disjecta membra of the troupe kept an engagement
in Plymouth at Christmas. The management was
marked by recklessness and incompetency. Thatcher
threw up his engagement very early in the proceedings,
and has an office in the Strand. He also contributes
“dreadful accidents” and “ shocking murders” to the
London press, and a weekly paper contains instalments
of one of one of his tales. It seems difficult to subdue
“ Dick.”
The skill of a pilot is unknown but m a tempest t
the valour of a captain but in a battle; the faithfuln
of a wife but in an assault.
On Umbrellas.
In Sydney some fellahs
Are hot on umbrellas,
Being “ Knights of the Watah,”
Indeed, and they oughta
Stand showers without feeling.
Instead of, yes —stealing—
To be mild, say borrowing,
Prigging brings sorrowing;
Nothing so mean—well as
"Shaking Umbrellas.”


THE NEWS IN A NUTSHELL.
In contemplation—A mansion at Mount Gilead.
Orange district wheat harvest —25 to 35 bushels
per acre.
Frozen fish arrive in good condition from Port
Stephens.
Miss Christian returns to Melbourne on the
19th instant.
Punch’s Hotel is in the market. Sale at Hardie
and Gorman’s next Wednesday week.
Victorian Small-bore Rifle Club resuscitated.
Match with New South Wales projected.
George’s River, at Liverpool, is destroyed by the
abominable drainage from adjacent factories.
The bridge across the Parramatta River,
between Gladesville and Five Dock has been opened.
Mr. Neill, of the City Bank, we regret to say,
has had a severe attack of English cholera, but he is
recovering.
At Squire’s, Nepean House, Penrith, the fruit
and fare are Al. Visitors in quest of health should
pay a visit.
Two men, arrested at Euabolong, on suspicion
0 f complicity in the murder of James Omak, Emu
plat, in 1876.
The Standard informs its readers that “ the
gcbnappers seem to have recovered." What about the
gudgeons. Dr. ?
There are 100,000 specimens in the Museum.
15,000 are on view to the public. A nice job to clean
ju’d look after them.
A gentleman, manager of one of the banks at
Liverpool, broke his arm the other day. A local
chera ist set the limb. Another doctor wanted.
The ever-wandering Smythe, in order that he
may not be always entirely away from his family, has a
child at boarding-school in every Australian capital.
So Boyd, the photo, artist, has not won the prize
at the Melbourne International. We are getting at the
facts. They’ll speak, trumpet-tongued, next issue.
Mr. Alderman G. W. Barker has been unani-
mously elected Mayor of Manly for the year 1881. We
congratulate the Manlyites on having so solid and
intelligent a Mayor.
The Shaftesbury Institute at South Head for
juvenile female criminals has been very successful.
The prison authorities regret the non-existence of a
similar institution for boys.
Probate was granted on the 3rd at Melbourne,
iu the estate of the Hon. William Highett. The amount
of the estate was sworn under £210,000, the probate
duty on which would be £21,000.
Holloway’s case of medals and friendly society
jewels in the Victorian Court at the International
Exhibition is the centre of attraction for the Mel-
bourne athletes, members of lodges, etc.
Mr. Hedges, who, it will be remembered, was
the only survivor of the Cawarra disaster,is not married,
as stated. He is a widower, and holds a position in the
postal branch, which he fills with credit to himself and
satisfaction to the department.
The man Galvin has been released from the well
at Pericoota, Echuca, where he was held prisoner for five
days and four nights; he is in good health, and only a
little cramped. Over 150 men were engaged in extri-
eating him. His life is insured for £5OO.
The prospectus of the new bank appears in
another column. The present seems to be an opportune
time for the formationof another bank. The projectors
aim at making it more of a Traders’ and People’s Bank.
The shares are being very liberally taken up.
Mr. W. E. Pearson, one of the Randwick Asylum
officers, was stuck-up near Randwick, on 2nd inst., and
his money demanded of him by a man who suddenly
oamc out of the bush on the wayside. The fellow, on
being refused the money, grasped Mr. Pearson by the
throat, but the application of a pen-knife compelled the
rascal to desist.
By the Australian aboriginal law, the man is
bound to take his deceased brother’s wife. Thus, it
often happens a man has three wives to keep. The Rev.
Mr. Fison says, in his recent work, that the father who
had many daughters was rich, in so far as their
husbands were bound to supply him with ‘‘plenty
’possum."
A primitive and offective shot-mould. A bar of
iron 18in. long and lin. wide and thick; heat one end
and punch a round hole in deep and Jin. in diameter;
then drill right through a small hole l-16in. in dia-
meter. When the bar of lead is ready, heat the iron,
and, placing the lead into the hole, let the shot drop
through into cold water.
Dr. Cecil Morgan, one of the ablest operating
surgeons the colony possesses, and who as a specialist
has during his term of office done perhaps more for the
Infirmary than any of the other honoraries, is to be
•pposed at the forthcoming election by that enterpris-
ing juvenile, the medical officer of Darlinghurst Gaol.
We hope the Infirmary subscribers will look into this
little matter properly.
Mr. J. J. Moore, the well-known bookseller of
Qeorge-street, narrowly escaped death by drowning, at
Robinson’s baths, Woolloomooloo, 2nd inst. He was
seized by cramp, and lay helplessly, face downwards,
in the water. Robert Wilson, son of the proprietor of
the baths, plunged in to his rescue, and brought him
ashore. Three hours’ medical attention at the hands
of Dr. Clone restored Mr. Moore, and he was afterwards
removed home.
The Albury railway opening took place on the
3rd. The Hon. John Lackey, Minister for Railways,
performed the ceremony. The two Premiers, Sir
Henry Parkes and Mr, Graham Berry, were present, as
also Mr. Patterson, the Victorian Minister for Railways.
Mr. Edmondson, Mayor of Albury, presided at the
banquet, and the leading speeches took the form of a
political duel, which, however, was conducted in good
temper. The Albury people royally entertained the
visitors.
Mr. Bridges, lessee of the Carcoar Academy of
Music, who was about leaving town recently, found,
to hisa mazement, that one of the wheels of his
dog-cart had disappeared. The police were out, and the
whole town was laughing at the catastrophe. After
a search of about four hours, the missing wheel was
dragged out of a deep water hole at the rear of Tanner’s
hotel by senior-sergeant Wood. The nuts, which are
patent ones, and; cannot be obtained or made in town,
are still missing. Poor Bridges!
Colonial wine is daily coming more into favour —
in other words, the consumption increases as the
quality of the wine placed before the public becomes
improved. Messrs. Hockings and Co., of Pitt-street,
have opened a depot for the sale of the better descrip-
tions of colonial wine, and having secured the services
of an experienced blender, a large and first-class trade
may be expected. Their sampling cellars, situate
opposite the City Bank, have already been visited by
numerous connoisseurs of the sparkling liquid.
Terrible boiler explosion at Baerami, near
Denman, at the flour mills of Mr. Thomas Hungerford.
A new hand was engaged to drive the engine, and it
appears that he knew nothing of his duties ; instead of
asking advice, he stopped the engine and waited till the
Messrs. Hungerford returned from breakfast. They
at once directed him to draw the fire, but
immediately a f terwards, the explosion occurred, both
«nda of the boiler being blown out. The Messrs. Hun-
gerford were slightly injured, but the unfortunate
fireman, Charles Hamilton, was killed.
The abundance of money in the colonies just
now was fully exemplified in Melbourne recently, when
Messrs. Clarke and Co., brokers, opened tenders for
~0000 worth of debentures, issued by the Sale Borough
V°«ncil. Tenders amounting in all to £42,000 were sent
m at various rates, all considerably above par, but the
highest tender was that of the National Mutual Life
Association, which institution offered to take the whole
Sr Hs 7d. In other words the borongh receives
W 529 9s 3d for its £5OOO worth of debentures ; so that
atter paying brokerage and charges there will still be
interest ° f premium left to pay nearl ytwo years’
The estimable ladies who manage the Society for
Destitute Children have provided us with
r oport erf their first year’s work. The past twelve
months hare been a period of success, and the best ex-
pectations have been realised. Fifty-seven children
have been placed in families In various districts. A
good class of people have been applying for the chil-
dren. In all cases an improvement in the physical con-
dition of the children is observed, the change from the
city to the country being very beneficial. The com-
mittee have a most important social experiment in
hand, the working of which will be very critically ex-
amined. It is satisfactory to know that their first
year has bean successful.
Stealing blackfellows’ skulls from New Guinea
by whitemen is not popular with the natives, whose
grandfathers’ skeletons they revere. A large number
of skulls was gathered in various garts of the island of
New Guinea by D'Albertis, but more especially from
tribes who are “ head hunters,” and are willing to part
with their trophies for a consideration. D’Albertis
likewise succeeded in obtaining two complete skeletons
from a deserted house on the IJ pper Fly River, and this
sacrilegious act may in part account for the hostility
exhibited by the natives. Similar conduct in civilized
countries would certainly lead to very serious conse-
quences, and (says the Athensum) in the interest of
science itself it is needful to discourage such “ irregu-
larities” on the part of explorers.
Forty thousand copies of the cheap edition of
“Endymion” have been sold by the Harpers. The
work is said to have been besrun fifteen years ago, but
the greater part of it has been written since Gladstone
came into power. The character of “ St. Barbe" seems
now to be generally accepted as intended for Thackeray,
while “ Gushy ” typifies Dickens. The savage attacks
on the great author’s snobbishness are doubtless in-
tended as revenge for Thackeray’s fearful onslaught
upon the four Georges. The character of “ St. Barbe,”
however, in common with so many others in “ Endy-
mion,” is very complex, and is drawn from several
models. The man who has Paris at his finger-ends, and
who starts a new feature of journalism—“ our own
correspondent”—applies very well to George Augustus
Sala.
Rather strange! Mrs. Charlotte Brown, a
widow residing at Richmond, in her examination before
the Melbourne Insolvency Commissioner, stated that
she had lost £483 in a curious way. The amount men-
tioned was the sum received through her solicitors on
her husband’s life policy of £5OO, She was travelling in
a ’bus, with the £483 deposited in a reticule. When
she got out she found the bag and money gone. She
advertised her loss, but without avail. The most ex-
traordinary statement, however, was that, a few days
ago, two ladies named Stewart, residing in Faraday-
street, came to her father’s house and told her that
they had heard that a man named Anderson had been
boasting that he had found a purse with nearly £5OO,
which he said he did not intend to give up. But she
did not go to the detectivts because she thought that
she should gee back the money. Examination ad-
journed.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Thomas Carlyle dead.
Hanlan is training at Putney.
Mrs. S. C. Hall, authoress, dead.
4500 additional men sent to South African war.
More trouble at Ashantee. British traders
attacked.
The cloture adopted in the House of Commons
with enthusiasm.
Davitt, Irish agitator, re-arrested. Great ex-
citement in Ireland.
John Bright strongly condemns the conduct of
the Home Rule members.
Irish members’ obstruction tactics in the House
of Commons during the passing of the Irish Coercion
Bill occasioned great disorder.
Twenty-eight Home Rulers massed themselves
together on bloc, and refused to leave their seats during
a division. The majority withdrew on being touched
by the Sergeant-at-Arms.
Speaker in the House of Commons summarily
stopped debate on the Irish Coercion Bill. Parnell’s
amendment then put and rejected by 164 to 19. The
Parnell party immediately left the chamber in a body.
Mr. Powell and Mr. Dillon forcibly removed
from the House of Commons. Serious disturbances
outside were feared, and a detachment of police was
sent to guard Westminster Hall. Dillon was expelled
for interrupting Mr. Gladstone, and Mr. Parnell for
proposing that Mr. Gladstone be not heard.
LATE SPORTING.
Glebe v. Orange Club on Easter Monday.
Will the Mercantilea pull at the Glebe again P
Davis is still left out of the team although
batting splendidly.
The footrace McLaughlan v Reilly, came off on
Wednesday, at Prince Alfred Park, and resulted in a
win for the favourite, McLaughlan.
The Rosetta, 22ft. open boat, haa for the fourth
time in succession beaten the Lefreu, which was the
fastest 22ft. open boat in the harbour.
A foot race took place at Townsville betwene
W. Willmett, of that town, and J. Winniett, of Cairns,
and resulted in a win for Willmett. The distance was
150 yards.
“ Zebra” ia the name of the young blood in the
Petersham Club, whose superior cricketing outfit
renders him so attractive. General average for 24
innings—oooooo.
In a match played between the Telegraph
employes, Mr. Clay’s team defeated Mr. Geary’s team
by 58 runs. The scores were, Mr. Clay’s team, first
innings, 43, of which Varley made 20; second innings
62, Watson scoring 13. Mr. Geary’s team, first innings
20; second innings, 30. Varley and Clay bowled well
for the winners, the former taking 11 wickets for 18
runs. Alf. did not come off for the losers, but ho never
bowls well when he loses his temper and has got plenty
of luck.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
‘ Constant Reader” (Hobart) : Like to hear
from you. “X” (Montreal) : Not distinct.
“Double Bay” (fashion): Capital style. Please con-
tinue. “T.H.C.”: Your information relative to
Leichhardt could throw no light on his fate
“Uria”: Send along. “A.P.8.": We “briefly”
notice him. Send address. “ A Victim ” writes say.
that as we have a Trade Protection Circular, so we
should hare a Teachers’ Protection Circular; then the
parents of children who fail to pay could be ‘ euchred.'
As it is, the game is all the other way.—“ Z.”: A line
from your district always acceptable. “Z.Y.X.”:
Next week, perhaps. “Ajax:” We don’t see it.
“ L.N.”: Glad to hear from you again. “Braidwood:”
The right kind. “ Cover Point:” Always acceptable.
“C.A.” (North Shore): Letter posted. “ C.A."
(Athenseum): Glad to hear from you again “ Gold
Pen:” Send along. “C. 8.," “D.D.,” “ J.D.,” “Blue
Label,"“ Observer,” “J.D.8.,” “Backßlox,” “ Camp-
belltown,” “Valerie,” “Eosedale," “W.H.K.,” and
others next issue, “E.D.”; A nice little line.
“E.G.M.:” A faithful picture and a true bill; keep
clear of them. “J. 8.:” The teachers’grievances
will have our attention next week. “W.G.M.”
(Rockhampton); Direct a correspondent. “ J.8.M.:”
Doubtful. “ Curieux:" Expected to be placed on
the table this week. “ Kathleen:” Nicely told.
“Cigarette:” We would like yon to continue.
“ W.H.:” You write saying you are prepared to waltz
some other person residing at Paddington for £5. Don’t
you think the sum too much. Couldn’t you waltz for
nothing, say, on the outer brink of South Head.
“ P.P.8.:" Thanks; write again. “ Steel:" Declined.
“H.H.;” Venemous. “Bondi:" Too late.
“ Aquatic : ” See Pacts Focused. “ Amateur : ”
Your intention is better than your poetry; yet we
prefer your poetry; try something kind. “E.C.:”
Your style is good, but selection faulty. “ 8.H.8.: ’’
Capital idea right through, but an improved form is
required. “ D.M.:" Continue the fun. “ C.C.C.:"
We cannot decide on your first contribution; please
write again. “ Dros: ” Good all round.;
BRIEF MENTION.
Even at Gympie the ladies are partial to
cigarettes.
Coffee Palace Philanthropy.—Prom 7 a.m. to
8 p.m. Poor girls 1
A Waterloo pastor brands all drapers as liars.
" Unpaid bills,” Ac.
To the temperance cause Rosoby gives a tone —
tombs-tone, we mean.
M'Elhone put the cart(e) before the horse when
he purchased a nag on the strength of a photograph.
A Granville civil servant takes the 12.15 train.
If he only took that, he wouldn't often be taken on to
Parramatta.
There is no Mayoress at Carooar—at least, one
is never seen; so the chances of the bachelor aldermen
are improving. «
When the Evening News reporter offered the
girl of his choice at the theatre a bucket of flowers, she
declared she “ wooden ware it.” He didn’t twig.
A gay Lothario in a leading drapery establish-
ment is given to soliciting appointments with his fair
customers. A mistake ; a brother on the war-path.
Smythe, posing as philanthropist and peace-
maker in the Austrian Band dispute, was truly edifying.
The ‘‘much travelled" really ought to go into the
Church.
A Parramatta man who attended Blacktown
races on Saturday, says there was a mistake made in
the title of those sports. They ought to have been
called a regatta.
Down the Macquarie there’s a Marsupial Di-
rector who objects to paying a large bonus for native
dog scalps. It is said he objects to putting too high a
value on his own.
The Parramatta clergyman who likes races was
at the Blacktown annual meeting on Saturday. He
was clad in a big overcoat and a Bishop Barker hat, but
he was recognised!
At Launceston, you can get watches on the
time-payment system. Is this slow or fast, or does it
mean ‘‘tick P” It will wind some of them up, no doubt.
Who will run down and see ?
They are putting a medallion of finest Parra-
matta mortar on the Council Chambers front in that
town. It seems to be a view of Eve before the fall, but
it is all put down to the weather.
Exciting scene on the Paterson. Time, mid-
night. Dramatis personas: three diminutive frogs on
the floor ; a nymph up the bed-post. Piercing shrieks.
Gallant rescue by the host. Tableau.
The verger of a Petersham church turned the
gas out too soon the other night. If he’ll only under-
take to repeat the trick a little earlier, we’ll wager the
attendances go np tenfold in that church.
Quean beyan Gale—he did a blow,
And made his trumpets sound;
Qneanbeyan Gale was no avail—
He lost his forty pound.
A medico practising on the railway line is so
overcome by local differences that he tears up the
cheques sent to the hospital by ladies “ on the other
side." Of course when torn they are “ good for
nothing."
It’s the dark blue suit, the little hat, and the
manly bearing, together with his superhuman efforts to
cultivate a moustache, that has won so many fenrnle
hearts for that young fellow from the neighbourhood
of the Circular Quay.
The new Hebe from Melbourne in that hotel at
Hay has created quite a sensation in that sunny little
town. She is an attractive blonde, with blue eyes, a
splendid figure, and most captivating manners. Pour
duels already stopped.
David Walker, of the Y. M. C. Asa., told the
audience on Saturday night that Paul never pUyed at
billiards or ran up a score at a pub. We don't believe
he ever did,—and, we’ll stake our existence he never
undertook gospel-work at so much per head.
Even at Moruya they have a rum-y paper. The
Examiner speaks of a local building as being “ a 13th
century Gothic," where “the lighting by gass is an
attractive feature produced by very handsome jets
which germinate their own gass from oil.”
It is not the excitement of their first great
match, nor the anticipated presence of 10,000 spectators
that unstrung the nerves of new aspirants to Inter-
colonial honors ; it’s the awe-aspiring grandeur of the
hon. secretary’s gig-lamp which does the mischief.
A very good young man, one of the Y.M.C
fraternity, and book-keeper in a leading ironmongery
establishment in this city, is shortly to be united to one
of Eve’s fairest daughters at Camden. Her papa is a
preserver of the peace at that place. What will the
holy men of Gath think on the subject ?
It was not the fine architecture, nor the rich
growth of foliage and flowering plants that stopped the
people, and induced them to gaze at that hon e near St-
John’s, Darlinghurst, with wrapt attention. The
simple fact is, the daughter of the house likes to per-
form her toilet, etc., with the full flood of heavenly
light rushing through the window ; and, of course, it’s
the light which these well-bred people stop to see.
Superstition is rife in New Guinea. The people
believe in witchcraft and the evil eye, and divination is
practised with a pebble attached to p string, as in Italy.
M. D’Albertis did not hesitate to act upon the super-
stitious fears of the natives in order to inspire them
with dread of his person, and “ it there is an art,” he
says, “my ignorance of which I regretted more than
another in New Guinea, it was that of sleight-of-hand."
Let intending travellers make a note of this.
An eventful history. The wife of a Majaw,
residing not about Sydney but about Melbourne, re-
ported as having come into a tidy fortune, has a peculiar
history. The daughter of Lady was married young
to Colonel , went to India with him, eloped with
Major , was divorced, went out to N.Z., hard up; got
six months for obtaining goods under false pretences ;
and after living in misery in this city for twelve months
has tumbled into honey. Queer story for an aristocrat I
but true.
As an instance of the marvellous rapidity with
whieh occurrences are chronicled in the Sydney daily
nress, after taking place in any part of the world, we
may mention that the Penny Morning Glucose pub-
lished on Saturday an item—the Manchester fancy ball
affair—which is only six months old. If the journal in
question continue to make such gigantic strides, we
may shortly expect a “ full account ” of Pharaoh’s
disaster, together with “ our representative’s" inter-
view with Moses.
From the Evening Apparition “ Notice.—
It William Argyll and Son does not come and finish
shop and dwelling according to contract, within seven
days from date, I shall get it finished at their risk.
Joshua Wiggins, Botany Pay, February-t, 1881." Go it
Joshua! A little more of your literary compositions
and the sun will stand still once more. We recommend
Messrs A. & Son to resume work, for J.W. is evidently
not a man to be trifled with. Heaven save us from any
Wiggins from Joshua.
Along our Southern border you can see the
gaunt figure of Protection hnng up. It is over against
Victoria. Beneath, you can see where his substance—
the little he had—fell on rich soil and scorched its out-
growth. They recollect him well in Eiverina. He bad
always the look of a factory-house starvling. Grasping
avarice was written over his brow, and national friend-
ship was obliterated from every feature. At a distance
he looked like a hag clad in a tenth century fashion.
They say he died game, though he died high.
This is pretty straight ! The Athene cjm
(London) of Dec. 18 has the following:—“ We have had
opportunity of examining the prize work—the cantata
‘ Victoria,’ by Leon Caron,—and are sorry to have to
express an unfavourable opinion on it. It is impossible
honestly to describe as anything but trash; and the
conclusion is forced upon us that either the standard
of musical ability at Melbourne must be very low, or
that the judges, who, we are given to understand, were
mostly amateurs, were altogether unqualified for their
work.
Ihe head teacher of the female aide of the
Government school in Newcastle recently resigned her
position, being about to enter a sphere which she will
eminently adorn, etc. On her departure the pupils set
about thinking what they could give her for a testi-
monial. After a long consultation, a hot-vyiter kettle
was decided on. The pupils had been so often in it —in
hot water. In reply, the lady said she thought the
present a spanking one ; upon which a visible shudder
ran through the ranks of the testimonialisers.
The Redfern Times is going: it. It has an
anecdote commencing A little boy asked his un-
godly father, ‘ Dear papa, why don’t you do as uncle
Isaac does ?' ” Then there is another in which a boy
refuses to go to the (of course ungodly) circus, because
his “ father doi’t like ’em,” and, in spurning the offer
of a quarter-dollar piece, says, “ After I’ve been I could
not lo >k my father right in the eye, and I can now.”
ill the editor have the Curtissy to inform us where
he picks up these Sankey-monions juvenilities ?
“ A man named M’ Gibbon, while working on
the steeple of the new Free Church, Greenock, lost his
footing and fell to the ground, a distance of 150 feet,
and was killed instantaneously.” In skimming the
Otago Witness we came upon this par, and in glancing
over it merely read the words, “ M’Qibbon,” “Church,”
and “ killed instantaneously.” Then we gave a gay—
well, not that we mean to say that—the reader will
understand that propriety—we trust no one will mis-
conceive our intentions are 179th hymn, long
measure.
Connected with the Survey Department is what
is called the ‘‘Miscellaneous Contract Branch,” which
is managed by a gazetted draftsman and five temporary
draftsmen. Their duties are to superintend the execu-
tion of all contract drafting work. The contract drafts-
men number about twelve, and are not fully employed.
Still they cannot get their vouchers for payment made
up for either December or January, although payments
are supposed to be made fortnightly. Six “ bosses ” for
twelve men, and two months in arrears, shows some-
thing wrong somewhere!
Every man is said to have his mission, and,
apparently, that of a very small member of the Agri-
cultural Society is to make himself os disagreeable as
he possibly can in public. His present movement is to
harass the secretary to death. He has a special mission
in the way of hunting officials of this society. He was
mainly instrumental in worrying poor Jeubert out of
his billet, and he has donned the mantle of discord
again, and is pursuing the same tactics to the present
secretary. Fortunately, this time he has no one to
help him, and has been voted by the whole of bis con-
freres as an intolerable nuisance.
Both Carr and Mrs. Bull, and indeed all the
witnessess connected with this extraordinary libel case,
were prominent members of the Pioneer Lodge of
Good Templars. The evidence given was of an
astounding character witnesses damaging one
another's character with the utmost glibness and
apparent unconcern. The most violent backhanders
were continually being given, and the whole case
sounded like a scene of one of Paul de Kook’s novels.
While the proceedings were going on a well-known
police officer exclaimed, “ If this is what Good Templary
leads to, give me rum.”
The following letter (which we translate) was
lately sent to the editor of the London Times
“ To Monsieur, the Director of the Times.
“ Monsieur, —I take the liberty of asking you if, as I
have been informed, it is true that you occupy yourself
with the negotiation of marriages ? If such be the
case, kindly let me know the amount of remuneration
you require. In awaiting your reply,
“ I have the honour, etc.
Stanislas Cachat-Easset.
“ P S. —Please answer in French.
“ Chamonix (Haute-Savoie), 23rd October.”
Mr. Cachat-Easset is yet single.
The prisoner Wilkinson, awaiting trial for the
Jindora murder, has been sent down to Gonlburn gaol.
Prior to his departure, he committed a ferocious
assault on a prisoner whe bad accidentally spilled soma
water at his feet. This man, wbo has been identified
by the police as a notorious criminal, is evidently one
of those whose blood is imbued with crime. We recom-
mend Wilkinson to the attention of that gifted novelist,
the Mudgee giraffe. That reminds us—what’s become
of the Independent ? We haven’t seen it lately. We
sent round to David’s chambers for a copy, but he told
the messenger that it was one of the charwoman’s
perquisites—he never received it.
Cundletown, as we prophesied,does not agree with
Kendall’s music. He is decidedly off colour in his
poem in this week’s Michael For instance: —
“Narrara, the beautiful brook,
The daughter of fountains aloof.
Flows evermore down by the nook—
By the grove over Jack and his roof.
Where the psalm of the stream and the reeds
Make holy wild places untrod.
He, crowned by immaculate deeds.
Sits patiently waiting for God.”
But no wonder! What in brimstone does a place mean
by calling itself Cundletown ? Who was, or is Candle ?
Mr. Longfellow’s new volume of poems “ Ultima
Thule” is just announced as published. Who
shall say the laureate’s hand has lost its
cunning, and that he can tune his harp no more ?
Listen to these two stanzas written on the occasion of
the death of his brother, Charles Tennyson Turner :
“ Midnight—in no midsummer time
The breakers lash the shores:
The cuckoo of a joyless June
Is calling out-of-doors:
And thou hast vanished from thine own,
To that which looks like rest.
True brother, only to be known
By those who loved thee best.”
For unadulterated impudence and meanness
commend us to that storekeeper of a Qeorge-street
wholesale warehouse. Here is a copy of a circular he
sent round to the proprietors of houses with whom he
did some trifling business during the year :—“ J. ,
storekeeper at Messrs , has infinite pleasure in
wishing you all the compliments and other good things
of the (Christmas) season on this most auspicious
occasion. He also expresses a lively interest in the
greatness of your generosity and retentiveness of your
memory, as upon tbe healthy exercise of both depends
a great deal of his chances of enjoying *• a Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Tear.” One gentleman
sent the contemptible fellow a piece of greenhide, and
another a rope.
Dr. S , of a New England district, is a man
widely known and deservedly popular—kind-hearted,
abounding in humour, a good companion over a bottle
of wine, and a devotee of tbe game of whist. About
two years ago, one of the coterie to which he more
particularly belongs was taken ill, and in spite of the
doctor’s efforts, was compelled at last to throw down
his hand, and join the silent majority. Dr. S called
to take a last look at tbe face of his old companion.
He walked alone into the room where the body lay, and
approaching the bed, tenderly and reverently lifted the
sheet covering the face; gazed for a moment in silence
while an unbidden tear fell from his oye, then dropped
the sheet again, heaved a deep sigh, and in a voice
quivering with emotion muttered to himself, “Ah !
poor E ! He vos a goot whist player.”
Two heads of institutions at an old “ historic
borough”—we don’t say it’s Parramatta—not a great
distance from Sydney, are going mad upon the subject
of their dignity. “ You did not salute me when yon
passed me this morning,” said one of them to the
asylum gardener a short time back. “ Share, how cud
I, sorr, whin I had my basket of vegetables on my head,
and both hands ferninst it,” was the reply. ‘‘Nomatter,
yon must touch your cap when you meet me, or I’ll fine
you,” was the rejoinder. A few days subsequently the
parties met again, when the hapless gardener was in a
similar quandary with his basket. Catching the “ eye
augu-t” upon him, he omitted to notice that there was
a sti anger with his chief, as, with a terrified look, he
ejaculated, “ Arrah, docthor, dear, hould my basket till
I tonoh me hat!” “ Ah, poor fellow, yes, it’s one of
his bad days,” observed the “docthcr,” who rose
admirably to the occasion; “ and we humour him; he
fancies he’s the gardener, and we have to lend him the
basket to quiet him!” The sympathetic visitor admired
the doctor’s humanity and now tells what extraordinary
expedients they resort to in order to pacify lunatics,
A rev’rend gentleman, when the Hlawarm's cabin
was flooded on a recent trip, was requested, with the
other male passengers, to allow the ladies undisturbed
possession of ttu saloon. The clergyman, however,
refused to do so, stating that he was too delicate to
sleep on deck. He was thereupon given the captain’s


room. The faith of the passengers in holy men, how-
ever, received a great shock.
A bright journalist —A Rae.
The Municipal pax. —Kippax.
Bain can be general, but never private.
David and Goliath. —Buchanan and Reid.
The house that Jack built is in William-street,
The cup the Mayor seems partial to —the sack.
Victoria has a palsied grasp of the Eivenne
trade.
The interest at the late railway opening was all
Berry.
More than one Appin girl enjoys a Vanity Fair
cigarette.
At the Multum in Parvo the glass stood —
empty. (Lyre.)
Cricket is becoming a favorite game on Sundays
at Middle Harbour.
There is a nasty rumour about town that Dr.
M'Gibbon is a Jesuit.
The language of defeat —The Melbourne Age’s
abuse of New South Wales.
The services of the second engineer at Botany
have been dis-Spenced with.
Liverpool Aldermen quarrel at times. “ Apes,”
"Lions,” "Bushrangers,” &3.,
Two bank clerks at Carcoar are thinking of
entering the soft goods business.
Sir Henry Parkes considers Dan O’Connor a
most formidable enemy to— porkers.
The Rand wick infants have joined the Band of
Hope—to get clear of the institution.
What’s de-luscious
Bridge-street brushes!
A man who should know the difference between
tweedle dum and tweedle-dee. —Carter.
Many persons were turned away from the
theatres on Saturday night-by the rain.
The Protestant Standard says there’s been
a lot of holy water wasted over the Guild Hall.
A Liverpool Alderman recently made himself
painfully familiar with a Minister of the Crjwn.
Unto us a young treasurer is born. People
know Watson we refer to. Good health to both.
It is said in Melbourne that a certain well-
known journalist would make a splendid lie-brarian.
People who have occasion to use the Petersham
railway platform are now obliged to carry disinfectants.
So there are men on the railway who require a
temperance society. We al ways thought them all sober.
The Inverell Herald has run short of roman
k’s. The Inverell Herald, though, has not run short
of d’s.
The spectacle epidemic at Terrara is subsiding.
Some of the medicos down that way, however, are still a
spectacle.
A straight question for a certain country news-
Cer man—What is the weight of a pair of military
dcutfs ?
“Moie Victorian protection,” chorused the
Sydney flies, when they heard Berry had brought his
Vale with him.
It is said that the Mayor is such a rabid Good
Templar that he will not even swallow the existence of
the holy spirit.
The rev. firebrand, it mav not be known, is
weak on something strong. Whiskey for three—not
enough for one.
The literary “brook” —One of Jones’s in the
Freeman:. “ Men may come and men may go hut he
goes on for ever.”
The full name of the Spanish Princess is Marie
de las Mercedes Isabella Therese Christine Alphonsine
Hyacinthe. That’s all!
Three thousand pounds of oleomargarine are
manufactured daily in Chicago. What a city that
would be for John Davies !
Louis Orlando Carr, to Mary Bull’s great delight.
Has Erot one rear, which, it’s quite clear.
Served Louis Orlando right.
A schoolmaster in Ballarat has loft his wife and
family and eloped with a school-teacher. First they
carried on, then tiny went off.
William Hnsrhes, chemist, cut his throat the
other dav. When asked why he did so, he said he had
no confidence in his own drugs.
A leading Wesleyan and a publican ran together
in the Bnr wood A'dermanic election, and were both
licked. It was the publican who suffered.
When the “ Conference” party visited Govern-
ment House, the vice-regal butler announc* d the
Tasmanian representative as “The Hon. Mr. Giblets.”
A foot-passenger to the scene of the wreck of
the Collaroy writes u« that on the journey he jumped
higher than ever he did in his life. He trod on a snake.
At the Bur wood concert, on Tuesday night, the
ladies were allowed to walk off the stage by themselves
after rendering their songs. Some of the gentlemen
couldn’t do that.
“ A gentleman connected with the Auckland
Post-office, received a New Tear’s gift from a lady. It
consisted of a box of five live mice.” He gave her rats
when he saw her.
They say that Graham Berry can work beside
a crushing battery, and think out a speech in a four-
wheel rattletrap, but he can’t stand that locomotive
whistle on our border.
The foundations of the houses in Botany-street,
Surry Hills, must have been badly laid for the
Evening Phantom speaks of the “ big stores which
promiscuously strew the road-way.”
It turns out now that Robey did not show an
open purse for the 139 nobblers by which he won
Terrara. Poor Kichard had to pav. No more cold
water candidates can ever hope for election.
Great row about Gavan Duffy’s new book. In
the most covert and scientific manner Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy damns O’Connell’s reputation. Tom Butler
is trying to smooth matters down, but it won’t do.
Dean M'Gibbon and the Rev. Father Suther-
land are fighting again. ’Tis said also that the Dean and
Monsignor Barry are not very fast friends, the latter
inclining to raising the standard of their newspaper.
Chief Justice of is a single
man, and a great epicure. He only loves one
woman, and that is the cook who prepares him each
choice culinary plat. And he only loves pldt-onically.
The Evening Glucose savs : “ The census is
to be taken on the night of April 3 in South Australia."
If taken in this colony, a large number of people, we’re
afraid, would be found dead. Of course, we mean
dead .
He was a festive broker-man.
He to an office went.
He said unto the joker-man
" By Cowperl’ve been sent."
And there for hours he did stop. He
Would not be paid out with copy.
When the C.M.G. pokes his head in at the door
of the room where the non-teetotal portion of the
Aldermen meet at the Town Hall, they invariably ask
him is he looking for a corkscrew. John immediately
walks away.
Two men and a boy (a blind boy) are making
the alterations at Petersham. They have petitioned
for a week’s holidays at Christmas, and it is more than
likely they will get a fortnight. We’d give them a
month straight off.
Is it not
A pity,
Lewis Scott
Never got
On the School of Arts Committee t
A boating crew sailed straight last Sunday for a
spot down the harbour, where they usually have a few
hours at the noble game. Their claim, however, had
been jumped by a park-preacher. They were forced to
join in the service. Two converted.
Geography! “Now tell me something about
Chester?” said the schoolmaster. Small hoy; “He
licked First King, and won two ” The schoolmaster
gave him one, two.
The water-inspector can now don his dressing
gown and carpet slippers. He called to serve a man
with a summons the other day, and was requested by
the man’s wife to lend a hand in baling the rain water
out of the back yard.
An exchange says:—“ Milner Stephen’s alleged
cures are soon likely to be put to the test, as Dr. Gray,
of Melbourne, has taken up Mr. Stephen’s challenge.
How’s this, when Milner announces that he is curing
blindness in Blight-street ?
The Victorian Minister for Railways is averse to
granting recompense to farmers who suffer loss by fires
caused by sparks from locomotives. He said haystacks
were often purposely put close to a railway line. So
the farmers are not to be protected !
“ Clever man, Bright,” said a merchant to a
grocer. “Yes, Charley’s a smart fellow-his lecture
last Sun —.” “ Oh, but I mean John Bright—.” “ John
Bright,” returned the other —“ never beam of him—
what is he?” “Oh, he’s an able man, and a pillar of
truth.”
Some of the Oamaru larrikins threw a number
of bad eggs at the volunteers while on parade last
Upon this the warriors dispersed in confusion. They
said they were prepared to bleed for their country;
but —hang it! —they couldn’t afford to have their uni-
forms spoiled.
We desire to make a correction. We stated
in a recent issue that “ Eve ” was writing fashion-gossip
in the Cantebbuet Times. We have since discovered
that it is in the Freeman that the general mother
writes. Her wrongs are therefore like her modern
prototypes re-dressed.
Hold your breath, readers; this a screaming
fact. Scene—a magnificent (machinery-literary) man-
sion in a Sydney suburb. Enter new footman, with a
letter in his hand. Footman (loq): “ A letter, sir.
Master (with dignity): “ You shouldn’t brmg in letters
in your ’and, John, but on the saliva.
At the Mudgee Sessions Mr Reid, M.L. A., held
two briefs-both his clients being charged with horse-
stealing. In both cases Mr Reid made a gallant and
eloquent defence; but in one case the fates—that 13 the
i ur v_was against him. In the case of the acquittal
the client was literally pulled through by the “ wool of
his eye-brows.”
The ever funny “ Flaneur ” says that at the
Coffee Palace they call dry hash “arid culinary
symposium.’' We didn’t think they’d go so far as that,
although we are personally acquainted with two of the
waitresses at No. 2, who call themselves lady helps.
We shall next hear of “ Cotelettes de mouton bien saignant
avec des pomines de terre d VAnglaise," for our matutinal
chops and murphies.
The gifted young clarionet player, belonging to
the Austrian band, was the other night honored, says
the Evening Whirl, with a bojuet after his solo. It
was the manager of a branch oank in Sydney who
bestowed the floral tribute. And ever since he got it,
the talented musician has been endeavoring to discover
from what dead language “ boquet" was dug up.
A clergyman in a country town, somewhere
about Adelong, possessed of a buggy and rather fresh
horse, when about to return from one of his afternoon
services, after harnessing up, discovered that the bit
was notin the horse’s mouth. He determined to put it
there, and took off the winkers. The horse saw the
buggy. The clergyman now uses a saddle when making
his afternoon tours.
“ The Queanbeyan Amateur Dramatic Club in-
tend giving,” says the Age, “ another of their enter,
taining performances in March next, during the ses-
sions ; the proceeds will be devoted to the purchase of
scenery and costumes for the society. But surely
the members must have some costumes for their
first representation —or not even the heat of the weather
would • * * * *
The Deputy Inspector of Nuisances always
finds it incumbent to inspect the sanitary arrangements
of a theatre on the first night of the performance of an
attractive piece. When the manager sees him, he
always welcomes the officer cordially, for he is a good
fellow. The other night, some one said to the acting,
manager, as the deputy-inspector passed in, ’* Who’s
that tall party with the whiskers ?” “ Fox et preterea
nih.il,” was the reply.
A special meeting of a “church,” to consider
the conduct of a member’s wife, lasting “ no less than
seven hours,” is a rather surprising item of news from
Eangiora, N.Z. Won’t there be come interesting con-
ferences held at the grocer’s for the next week, and
won’t the offending lady’s hired girl be a welcome guest
in the neighbouring kitchens ? Seven hours! It’s evi-
dently nothing less than a flirtation with the moderator
or some grave affair with his paid sexton.
The Cooma Express gravely published the
following telegram :—“ Mr. Thomas Carlyle Luther is
dangerously ill.” Can this be owingtoa state of cooma
on part of the editor ?
There is a Eiley-street man who is of a patriotic
turn. He has built two houses in that salubrious
thoroughfare, one of which he has labelled Wellington,
and the other Havlock (sic). It is well meant; but his
spelling is not equal to his patriotism.
A Town Hall clerk, signing himself “ C.M.G.,”
sends the following, in reference to our last week’s
cartoon:—“ Why should the two municipal magnates
ride on donkeys ? —because, what the fates have joined
together, let man should put ass-under.”
It is a curious zoological fact that giraffes’
favorite diet is paper, tip Mudgee way, however,
these animals are now particular. There the local one
don’t care about eating paper unless his own words are
on it. He finds they lie lighter on his chest thac way.
The Alpine Gazette (No. 1, vol 1), speaking
of Woodyear’s Circus, says : “ The riding of Miss Ida
Vernon in conjunction with the veteran, Mr. W. Jones,
was much and deservedly applauded." “ Miss Ida
Vernon 1” Surely this is not another name for Miss
! But impossible 1
The tongue of scandal is always at work. We
are in a position to deny a report, that in order to duly
qualify himself for the post of agricultural editor of a
contemporary, a journalist recently went to Paddy’s
Market and purchased two sheep. We have no patience
with these vile insinuations.
A new and popular publication in London is
“Ottr Jemimas, respectfully dedicated to the great
Middle Class; by ‘ A Victim.’ ” It deals humorously
with a subject that is very seriously considered by
thousands of housekeepers—the vagaries and short-
comings of domestic servants.
Twelve months gaol, was the sentence accorded
to the defendant at the Qua iter Sessions yesterday, for
libelling one who was previously a “sister” in the
1.0. G T.” This is the way the Evening Draught puts
it. Why not simply say—Good Templary—Mr. Louis
Orlando Carr has joined a new lodge.” ?
Professor M ; Gregor says he is not adverse to
Sunday work on Monday’s newspapers. This must be
reassuring, since the man who was most responsible for
the Glasgow Bank swindle (which broke the hearts of
many men, sent fathers to lunatic asylums, wives to
beggary, and daughters to God know’s where), was al-
ways adverse to reading the Monday’s newspaper.
A contemporary informs ns that “Mr. Moody’s
sermons have been translated into Arabic, and that
Protestant missionaries in Syria read extracts from
them every Sunday evening to their converts” —who
are, of course, much impressed. We suppose they
regard Moody’s pitch as a new sort of “ gum Arabic.”
Moody in Syria—bah, it can’t be Syrious.
Adolph Moritzon, a Dunedin dandy, has been
arrested, bailed out, and re arrested on numerous
charges of embezzlement of the funds of the Standard
Insurance Co. Adolph was one of the peach-bloom and
crumpled rose-leaf exquisites, and quite a tremendous
lady-killer. This is a great blow for the Dunedin
belles—and the Standard Insurance people don’t like it
either.
Mr. John Jack gave an interesting lecture at the
Association Hill, Philadelphia, on Nov. 19, on what he
saw during his tour round the world. In the course of
his remarks, he said he considered that Adelaide was
the first of all Australian centres, and that Jim Allison
was the most magnificent specimen of the genus homo
out of the states. John and Jim measure the same
round the waist.
The Shoalhatbn News has the following ;
“Crowded Out.—Our full report of the Regatta not
having reached us through Postal neglect somewhere,
and other in/orseen difficulties as well as a pressure on
our space, compells us to hold over many matter of
many matter.” We don’t like those “inforseen diffi-
culties.” ‘‘Suffering a recovery" would have he n
much more explicit and more to lie pint, we're afraid.
Since a Camperdown belle and her companion
accomplished the only feat worth recording, at a late
quadrille party at the Glebe, we have made inquiries
about that neglected borough, and find that although
its residents include an archbishop and a late mayor of
Sydney, it has no church worthy of the name, and its
belles have to answer the bells of Newtown and Forest
Lodge on Sunday evenings. The Rosalinds are beauti-
ful.
Some people in Mudgee have no respect for
anything. A correspondent writes to us to this effect:
—“ It would only be a fair thing on part of our numer-
ous body of members to get a few thousands placed on
the estimates in order to promote a taste for zoology
amongst the Mudgee people. Can’t they supplement
our present giraffe, anyhow, by a mule —just to give us
a start. Our giraffe is too long amongst! ns to be
popular.”
M. Benazet, whose revenue came from the
gamblers at Baden, left six million pounds to his widow.
She was forty years old, and recently became insane!
Being cured by a red-haired physician named Thuliej
she settled £BOOO a year on him, and married him. Now
isn’t it fnuny how history repeats itself. He is trente,
she is guarantee : he is rouge, and she is noir. “ Com-
prenny ?” as Shrill would say.
Fact or fiction ? Alas, a fact! A distressing
incident. He was an M.P., and a man of fashion. He
had four tickets for the Albury Railway opening, and
was taking over three ladies some days prior to the
ceremony. Need it be said he was in for a great mash-
ing. There was another M.P. going South by the same
train. That was the misfortune, and he was essaying to
travel in the same carriage. No kind of hint could in-
duce him to leave the saloon ; he would accompany
them. The whole party were not together five minutes
before the “ minister" began to practise his arts with
every mark of success. The other M.P. became some-
what enraged. He could see he was being euchred—and
at the outset of the journey said, “ Perhaps the ladies
would like a book 1" He got out and—the train went
off.
We see by a cable to a contemporary that
Leopold Rothschild has been married to the Countess
of Perugia. The telegram is a few days old, and we
really should have attended to this little matter in our
last issue. Better late, however, Leo, old boy, than
never. If we’d only received timely notice that you
were going to take the plunge, we should certainly have
hung up an electro fish-slice at Lassetter’s, and sent it
along. We can’t pronounce the bride’s name, ’tis true,
and we don’t try to, because all the names in the cable-
grams are spelt wrong. We don’t think, though, it
can be Perugia. We hope it isn't. We’ve only just
recovered the shock of having to write the name of the
Chief Justice of Western Australia. But, no matter.
We wish you well, Leo, dear boy, and hope the new
Dutch oven will draw. Bless you.
A Paris lady at a French watering place,
changed her dress nine times a day. First she donned a
breakfast gown, then a walking dress, then a bathing
costume, then another walking dress, and after that a
yachting toilet. After this a tea gown, a dinner dress,
a casino costume, and then a careful evening toilet for
a select supper and a card-party After the card-party
she changed again for a masqued-ball, and when the ball
was finished she just had time to skip home and put on
a sombre costume for afashionable execution. After the
guillotining she changed once more—but then as no one
was present to behold this final Protean effort, we can’t
of course, chronicle it. This, however, we may remark
as a curious fact: —That after the Princesse de Metter-
nich has been at about seven flower-shows, twelve
garden-parties, three theatres, and a dozen balls, what
she most dearly loves is to come home, don an old
flannel-gown, and munch away at roasted chesnuts.
The Otago Witness says : “ Miss Fanny
Parnell, of New York, is doing her utmost to help her
brother in his Irish agitation, and has written what she
considers a poem, entitled ‘ Hold the Harvest,’ which
expresses in doggerel things unattempted yet in prose
by any politician who has a regard for his per-onal
freedom.” This par. we consider not only ungallant,
but unfair. One of Miss Parnell’s pieces, of which we
had the pleasure of printing an extract some weeks
since, betrayed in its every line poetic merit of a very
high order. The Witness’ poetry is not so magnificent
that it can afford to blow much. For instance, —
“ ‘ Oh, I fear him,’ said the daughter,
‘ And try to love him, too :
But I wish he was good and gentle.
Kind and loving as you.’ ”
Miss P. could write circus-rings round that bard,
anyhow.
For pure and undiluted ingenuousness, commend
us to the Inverell Times. It is a paper that is garbed
in the purest simplicity. See how it gushes with re-
gard to garden produce:—“ A friend sent us some
beautiful cucumbers a few days ago with a message
that they were not to be paragraphed but merely eaten,
with vinegar and onions. We may say, however, when
gardeners, farmers, and others have some particularly
fine vegetables, fruit, fowls, &c , &c., let them remember
it is to their advantage to have them advertised by a
good judge. Let them send us the choicest samples
and they may rest assured that in the interest of the
district we shall do them justice both in our columns
and on our table." We shall await future numbers of
the [ntbrell Times with breathless interest. The
editor is evidently a genius—and like most other
geniuses—a hungry one. We admire him ; and we
shall take an early opportunity of forwarding him a
bunch of carrots and our compliments.
Here is an insignificant little story about a
young member of the new Parliament. When he went
into the country prior to the recent elections, to visit
the electorate for which he had announced his inten-
tion of standing, he had the luck to secure the patron-
age of a genial son of the soil. In the course of a chat
with his patron before addressing the electors, the can-
didate expressed himself as strongly opposed to the re-
mission of interest to the free-selectors, and denounced
in strong terms what he called “ a barefaced attempt at
robbery,”—“ a daylight burglary," &c. His friend then
stopped him— “ Musha, listen to me,” said he, in bis
pure old brogue, “if that’s the way you talk you’ll
have a mighty poor show here.” “What," said the
candidate, “are the free-selectors so very strong about
here ?’’ “ Begor, thin, they are that same,’’ replied the
old ex-member, “and it’s meself that knows it ” And
it came to pass that the young candidate, having a
good knowledge of what politics are in this country,
henceforth advocated the cause of the “down-trodden
frea-selectors,” and is further trying to bring himself
into note by taking action in the matter on the floor of
of the House. Now, Tom, how do you plead ?
A person signing Kate as been so obliging as to
send us some of her poetry. She commences by in-
forming us (in large man’s round hand) that —
“ I am young and good looking, and clever at cooking.
Can, brush boots and play the piano;
At a pinch I can scrub the whole day at a tub,
And am fond of young babies as Hannah.”
Well, we don’t know who Hannah is, and we don’t want
to; but certainly we should hare preferred our corres-
pondent giving us some reason for her predilection for
infants. So far as the poet, herself, is concerned, while
we are perfectly willing to believe that she can “ brush
boots ” and “ scrub the whole day at a tub,” we must
confess to entertaining some doubts as to musical
capabilities. Any, if she can’t play the piano better
than she can write poetry, we have no wish to hear her.
Further on she urges some one to—
“ Hast (sic)and get married.”
And when the poem is finished, she, in a charming spirit
of confidence, says— ‘(lf you think the last verse but one
to (sic) strong cut it out).” We fancy we’ve seen the
verses in some of our Sydney contemporaries, but not
having the Town and Country or Mail files at hand we
can’t be snre.
They Return from the War.
Immortal spirit of Nelson, and spirits of the myriads of
gallant fellows, sons of England, whose deaths have
shed a glittering halo of glory around her name, and
made her supreme upon the mighty ocean, —canst thou
rest in thy “ charnel houses ?" If thou canst not. oh,
spare us, we pray thee, the humiliation of a visit from
thy spiritual presence ! We dare not meet thee in that
« witching hour,” when ghosts are said to “ troop
forth,” and reveal themselves to us poor mortals.
Keep, oh keep that honor for the dauntless crew of
H M.S. Emerald, who so recently immortalised them-
selves by their brilliant achievement in the Islands.
With what feelings of admiration do we revel in the
thrilling account of their bravery; their triumphant
march inland, destroying whole groves of cocoa-nut
palms; in their victorious march through the enemy s
c nmtry, throwing shells into deserted huts that lie m
their line of march, and what a matchless coup de grace,
resulting in the capture of one nigger, a dwarf, ami the
wounding of one woman. How the hearts of the gallant
commander and his men must have throbbed and
I swelled with victory when gazing on their prisoners—
particularly the dwarf; how chivalrous they must have
I felt —when their thoughts dwelt upon their humanity—
-1 in allowing the blood-thirsty savage woman to live;
I surely her crimes deserved a sterner fate. Thank
Heaven, note all massacres in the South Seas are at an
1 end. Our noble sailors have shown the savages what
I British revenge is, and what they must inevitably expect
if they are so wicked as to poke their sharp spears into
1 a white man, or rap him on the head with their heavy
I clubs, and kill him. Perhaps the good missionary, too,
I will tell them that the white man's God will not love
I them if they kill.
"AND CAPTURED ONE SMALL NIGGER”


The Referee
Sporting and Athletic Mems.
Armidale has now got its “ Tatt’s.”
Maitland races—loth and 11th May.
, Dawson is the coming Albnry cricketer.
John Tait returned by the mail steamer.
Rat fights are largely patronised in Melbourne.
The returh intercolonial match is fixed for the
19th.
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club liabilities are
£BOOO.
Mr. W. Branch’s winnings at Geelong in stakes
were £l7lO.
Six horses have entered for the Braidwood
Maiden Plate.
The entries for our Gold Cup—eighty-nine—are
ihe largest yet made.
J. M'Carthy, of the Croydon Club, is one of the
coming wicket-keepers.
Eighteen horses have paid up for the Hobart
Cup, and nine for the Steeplechase.
Kelly made 84 in his old style in a recent match
for the M.C.C., against South Melbourne.
Betting is not brisk on coming events, backers
preferring to wait until the handicaps are out.
The Adelaide Racing Club have issued a very
attractive four days’ racing programme for May.
It is estimated that Massie breaks enough bats
to keep a man constantly employed to repair them.
Hiddlestone has thoroughly recovered from his
recent accident, and has now re-commenced practice.
The Wellington Cup was won by Natator,
Libeller being second, and Dan third. Time, 3min.
28sec.
A movement is being initiated for the purpose
of amalgamating the Victorian and Australian Coursing
Clubs. •
Spinningdale and Monmouth have been both
backed for a large amount at 4 to 1 for the Champagne
Stakes.
The Victorian Rowing Association asks for a
postponement of the Intercolonial Eight-oar event till
April 9.
Harry Thatcher, the English champion walker,
did 21 miles in 2h. 57m. 595., and 21 miles 285 yards in
3 hours.
An excellent programme is published for the
Albury Races, which are fixed for the 31st March and
Ist April.
Hanlan’s boat, in his match with Trickett,
weighed, with all fittings, about 331 b., or perhaps a
trifle over.
Good entries have been received for the Yass
Handicaps; 19 horses for the Handicap, and 21 for the
Town Plate.
Ted Powell, judging by the big scores he has
been making lately, is evidently quickly getting back to
his old form.
Horse-owners in Victoria are agitating for short
distances in the minor handicaps, so that larger entries
may be secured.
George Bonnor, of the Australian Eleven, has
had an operation performed on his leg, and is now able
to be about again.
A Murray cod was caught last week in the
Cudgegong River, whose length was 3ft. girth,
2ft. Sin. ; weight, 361 b.
Charlie Banncrmann scores in every match
he plays, and has an average with the Carlton
G.C. of 40 for six innings.
The National Regatta Committee dismissed the
protest laid by the Pairplay against the Deronda, for
second place in the open boat race.
Mainon made 87 (not out) against the St. Kilda
Club. Great surprise is expressed in Melbourne at his
not being in the Intercolonial team.
The Deronda and Kingfisher will have another
race, the crew of the former not being satisfied with the
result of the race on Anniversary Day.
A race has been arranged by the Sydney
Amateur Sailing Club, for the 19th instant, for painted
boats of 20 feet and upwards, crews limited.
Tobin, Musgrove, and Trinniek are unable to
leave Melbourne, and their places in the intercolonial
team are filled by Headley, Kelly, and Rickman.
The recent rains have made a vast difference in
the appearance of the Association cricket-ground, and
the turf is now as green as ever. Ned is all smiles.
Queensland Autumn Meeting fixed for the 24th
and 25th May. Hon C. S. Mein elected chairman of
the Club, and Mr. E. J. Stevens, M.L.A , treasurer.
Mr. Haines, the Victorian sportsman, is to be
presented with a testimonial for his honorable conduct
in refusing to sell Planet before the Geelong Steeple.
The results of the Moruya races are as follow:
—Maiden Plate: Slug, 1; Town Plate: Empress, 1;
District Purse : Whynot, 1; Ladies’ Mile, Whynot, 1.
The Murrumbidgee Turf Club has decided that
the Autumn Race Meeting should be one day, instead
of two, as formerly. The Ist of April was fixed as the
date.
Mdlle. Azella, the champion lady pedestrian,
appears shortly in Brisbane, in a 26-hours’ tournament.
Azella tours northward, and will arrange a match if
possible.
The City Bowling Club postponed the opening
of the new ground on Cook Paddock till.next Saturday.
If certain legislators had their way, the green would
never be opened.
Natator, the winner of the Wellington Cup, is
by Traducer, from Waterwitch, by Camden, from Mer-
maid. Consequently he is very nearly related to
Lurline and Le Loup.
Umpires in matches on Moore Park should be
careful about unfair decisions, especially while Mr.
Ironside is about. He lately gave a Surry United
umpire a lesson on cricket rules.
At the match Petersham v. Redfern, Roberts,
of the former club, again “ had them on,” making 93
runs (not out) in first-rate style. His average now for
7 matches is over 62 runs per innings.
The committee of the Royal Sydney Yacht Club
have decided to entertain the Commodore prior to his
departure from the colony at a luncheon on the 19th
instant, at some convenient place in the harbour.
A match was played on Moore Park between the
Union and Carthona C.C’s., which ended in an unsatis-
factory draw. Union Club got 99 runs, and the Car-
thona had lost 9 wickets for 53 runs when time was
called.
Concerning the competition for places in the
next Intercolouiel cricket team, a cricketer would like
to know if it is a fair trial for a new man behind the
“ sticks” to have to take the ball from three and some-
times four bowlers.
On Anniversary day the Gulgong and Home
Rule clubs played a match, which resulted in an easy
victory for the latter. On the Wednesday previous,
the Gulgong club won a match against the same team.
Such is cricket luck.
The results of the Blacktown Races on Satur-
day last are as follow: —Flying Handicap—Lord Or-
ville. 1; Galloway Handicap—Lady Chester, 1; Selling
Race—Mayariue. 1; Blacktown Handicap Claymore,
1; Hack Race—King, 1.
Before our next issue, the race between Laycock
and Haulan will have come off. Laycock is
confident, of course; but Trickett, although he think*
there is a chance, has some misgivings as to the
result. Hanlan is quartered at Putney, is in good
health, and doing steady training work. Trickett's
admission that he is a better sculler than ho thought
him to be should prepare ns for another defeat.
A very successful sports meeting took place at
Mndgee, on Anniversary day. The Maiden Plate was
won by Henry Wilton, and the Sports Handicap by
George Marden. Pony races for valuable prizes were
contested during the day.
The results of the annual races of the Blayney
Jockey Club are as follow: —Maiden Plate : Lottie, 1;
Prince of Wales Stakes: Mendacious, 1; Jockey Club
Handicap: Love Not, 1; Ladies’ Purse : Melody, 1;
Consolation Stakes; Rosebud, 1.
The Adelaide Racing Club’s Park Meeting came
off on Saturday, and the results are as follow Hurdle
Race—Miss Banter, 1; Plying Handicap—Spree, 1;
Steeplechase—Lucy, 1; February Handicap, Struck Oil,
1; Selling Handicap—Sir Charles Ludington, 1.
The Carltons say that in young Turner, Bathurst
possesses one of the most promising all-round colts in
the colony. Turner plays in the West v. North match
on the 10th and 11th instant, and the Intercolonial
Selection Committee should keep their eyes open.
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club opened their
meeting last Saturday at Caulfield, and the results of the
racing are as follow :—Hurdle Race —Dhnrringle, 1 ;
Nursery Handicap—Declamation, 1; Steeplechase—ln-
trepid, 1; Midsummer Handicap—Earl of Mar, 1.
A race for 150 yards came off on Saturday at
Homebush, between Moriarty and Royal, the stake at
issue being £9O. Mr. R. F. Watson acted as starter, and
got the men away on even terms. Moriarty led for 100
yards, when Royal passed him and won by a yard and a
half.
The results of the Burrowa Cup Club Races are
as follows: —Maiden Plate —Woodbine. 1; Ladies’ Purse
—Good News, 1; Publicans’ Purse —-Baron, 1; Plying
Handicap—Good News, 1. A jockey named Murphy
was seriously hurt through his horse falling in a hack-
race.
The Melbourne Foot-ball Club intend paying
Sydney a visit this year, and it is rumoured that the
Carlton Club will do likewise. What a treat for foot-
ballers it would be to see a match between the crack
clubs on the Association Ground under the Victorian
rules!
The Burwood United and Woodstock clubs
played a match. The scores were: —Burwood United,
44, G. Allan and W. Colles being the highest scorers,
with 8 and 7 (not out) respectively. The Woodstock
was 64, C. Muddle 17, Moses, 14, and Kaehler 10, being
the principal scorers.
Exception having been taken to the selection for
the Melbourne team, a number of the admirers of
Mainon, a Richmond club cricketer, have offered to back
him for a single-wicket match against any man in the
team. Conlithord at once accepted, and the match
takes place for a trophy.
The next meeting of the Northern Jockey Club
is fixed for Tuesday and Wednesday, the 10th and 11th
of May. The distances in the Northern Jockey Club
Handicap and the Duckenfleld Park Stakes are to be
reduced, with a view of securing larger fields for the
more important events.
The race for Commodore Gilchrist’s prize for
yachts of the third class, is fixed for next Saturday
afternoon, the committee appointed to arrange the
course and fix the handicap being, Messrs. H. C. Dangar,
J. Trickett, G. S. Caird and R. Binney, junr. The en-
trances go as a sweepstake for the second boat.
The committee of the Prince Alfred Yacht Club
are making arrangements for races for prizes promised
by the Commodore, Vice-Commodore, and Dr. Mackellar.
Fresh moorings are to be laid down at Manly, and the
question of handing over prizes won during the season
is to be considered at the next monthly meeting.
The Mudgee C.C., in an evil hour, decided to
meet a team of fifteen schoolboys, doubtless with the
view of improving their batting averages ; but the
boys proved too many for them, and won by 42 runs.
The boys are jubilant, and are anxious for a match on
even terms. Our old fnend, Frank Isaacs, played.
The Victorian Rowing Association has resolved
to ask Sydney to postpone the Intercolonial Eight-oar
Race to any Saturday after the 9th April. The Port
Adelaide Rowing Club is desirous of sending a repre-
sentative crew. The presence of crews from three
competing colonies will make the race unusually in-
teresting.
A match was played on Moore Park between the
Wellington C.C. and Nonpariel C.C., resulting in a
victory for the former by 25 runs. Wellington. 62, of
which Willison made 13. Newman, 12, and Cardiff, 12.
The Nonpariel made 37, Kelly making 15 by good play.
Willison and Plunkett bowled well for the victors and
Pert for the losers. ,
The forthcoming match between Hanlan and
Layoock, to come off on the 14th Feb., is for the Cham-
pionship of England and the Sportsman’s Challenge
Cup, and £5OO a-side, from Putney to the University
posts at Mortlake; both men to go under the centre
span of Hammersmith Bridge ; to start by mutual con-
sent an hour and a half before high water.
The Carltons beat Bathurst by an innings and
21 runs. Totals: Carltons, 128 ; Bathurst, 83 and 24
For the Carltons, Charlie Bannerman made 57 (not out),
and carried his bat right through the innings. Beal
made 36, and M’Rae 20. West (25) and Turner (17) were
the principal contributors to the Bathurst score. The
Carltons are loud in their praises of the Bathurstians.
The rain on Saturday stopped all the fun,
except at Moore Park, where the boys played several
matches. The match between the Albert and
University clubs was to have been continued on
the Association Ground, and would doubtless have
proved very interesting, as Powell and Allen, the not-
out men, had already made a good stand on the first
day.
It has been decided by the residents of Grafton
to hold a regatta on Queen’s Birthday. The
matter has been taken up warmly, and several sub-
scriptions have been already promised. Mr. M. Rush
offers to contribute a prize for a champion outrigger
race, and it is hoped that Trickett and Layoock will
arrive in time to compete for it. The regatta is to be
an annual affair.
On Wednesday, the team selected for practice
for the intercolonial match had the ground to them-
selves, and played for runs with the fields placed. This
is considered by many as very questionable practice.
If fielding form is the chief requisite, it might do ;
but as our batting is wofully deficient, a closer
attention to net practice would be more beneficial. The
two Bannermans and Roberts showed very good play.
The Port Jackson Swimming Club postponed
their matches on Saturday last on account of the wet
weather. Despite the rain there was a good attendance
at Foley’s Baths, the general impression being that it
was not likely that competitors were afraid of getting
wet. The postponement was made in consideration of
visitors ; the day being set apart by the club as a ladies
day, a goodly attendance of the fair sex being expected.
A match was played on last Saturday between
the Young Australian C.C. and the Aurora C.C., which
resulted in a victory for the former by 19 runs. Scores :
—T.A C C., 138; A.C.C., 121. The batting of Sullivan
(19) and Turvey (18) was splendid for the T.A.C.C, and
that of Ironside and Donnelly for their opponents was
good. The bowling of Sullivan' and Turvey for the
Y.A.C.C. was good, as also that of Ferris for the
A.C.C.
In view of the coming intercolonial hand-ball
matches, the Victorian players have initiated a series
of practice matches, whereat the play has been so satis-
factory that the double-handed game in Sydney is
already considered a certainty for Hannan and Mac-
namara. A alight doubt still exists as te whether
either can pull off the single-handed match from Dillon.
This admission is certainly a great concession from
Victoria.
On Saturday Dr. Clive Belisario’s boat, Dream-
land, was unable to start in the Club Race, owing to
four of the crew not putting in an appearance. This is
the less excusable from the fact that each of the absent
ones lives on the North Shore, in close proximity to
where the boat is docked, while some of those present
had come long distances. After all, perhaps they were
safer at home than in an open boat on a squally
afternoon.
A match between the Perseverance C.C. and a
combined eleven of Moore Park players (including
Lewland, of the Warwick C.C., who got no runs) took
place on Moore Park, on Saturday, and resulted
in a victory for the P.C.C. by an innings and 47 runs.
Scores: 108 and 61. The batting of Chippendale (24)
and York (13) for the P.C.C. was very good, as also that
of Smithers (13) for their opponents. The bowling of
Chippendale and Davis for the P.C.C., and Freeman for
the Combined Eleven, was very good.
A religious newspaper in Canada, musing upon
the immoral character of boat-racing, says that in
England “Ireland, Greece, and even Dnlcigno, were all
forgotten, and an unchristian anxiety to know about
Trickett’s condition and the health of Boss, took the
place of serious reflection.’’ If serious reflection be a
disideratum of morality, there was plenty of it in
Sydney when the result of the Hanlan-Trickett race
became known here.
The Eastern C.C. beat the Second Warwick
C-C. on the Eastern ground by 30 runs. The scores
were—Eastern C.C., 94—in which Spears got 22, P.
Searle 17, and J. Stedman 15; 2nd Warwick C.C., 64
Hid dies tone being the only double figure, with a
lucky 29, and not out. Eiley, the great break-back
bowler of the W.C.C., never came off, but received
some very rough handling. F. Searle was in his usual
grand form at the wickets for the E C.C.
In reference to the Geelong Steeplechase, In-
trepid had been backed to win a largo amount, and in
order to make matters safe, an attempt was made to
secure Planet, who was considered the most dangerous
opponent. An offer of £4OO was made for the horse,
which the owner refused, although he expressed his
readiness to take £75 for him after the race. It is but
fair to the owner of Intrepid to state that he had no
part in this shady transaction. Helmet won the race,
so the knowing ones were sold.
The results of the two days’ racing at Geelong,
on 28th and 29th January, are as follow : —First Day.—
Hurdle Bace: King of Trumps 1. Trial Stakes: Free
Citizen 1. Geelong Cup: Progress 1. Produce Stakes:
Royal Maid 1. Connewarre Stakes: A.T. 1. Grand
Stand Stakes : Gipsy Cooper 1. —Second Day,—Barwon
Stakes: Dead heat between Somerset and Baltio;
Somerset afterwards walked over. Stewards’ Purse:
Blue Eibbon 1. Mares’ Produce Stakes: Progress 1.
Geelong Handicap: Wellington 1. Steeplechase :
Helmet 1.
The second-class yacht race for Mr. Yeend’s
trophy came off on Saturday afternoon. The yachts
entered were Guinevere, 10 tons, J. H. Want, scratch;
Harpy, 10 tons, C. A. Benbow, scratch ; Pleiades, 9 tons,
E. W. Knox, 5 min.; Daphne, 10 tons, C. T. Gedye, 7
min. It was an an excellent race and the timing was as
follows :—Harpy sh. Im. 21s ; Guinevere, sh. 2m. 255.;
Pleiades, sh. 3m. 255.; Daphne. sh. 6m. 40s. The
Pleiades therefore wins the trophy, beating Harpy with
time allowance by 2m. 565.; the Daphne takes second
prize, being within her time allowance Im. 41s.
The tour of the Australian Eleven in New
Zealand has, so for, been very successful. The Inver-
cargill 22 were defeated in one innings, with 83 runs to
spare—Murdoch being top score with 40. The Dunedin
22 were beaten by 44 runs, Murdoch scoring 25 and 15.
The match with theOauraru 22 resulted in a draw much
in favor of the Eleven, who had but seven runs to get
to win with no wickets down. Qroube made top score
with 30 runs. In the first innings, Spotforth got 13
wickets for 13 runs. The Canterbury 15 were defeated
in one innings by 100 runs, Murdoch scoring 111. The
latter team wished to meet the Eleven on equal terms,
and for their temerity they were deservedly treated to
a leather-hunting.
The contests for the prizes presented by Com-
modore S. H. Hyam, for the Sydney Amateur Sailing
Club, took place on Saturday afternoon. In the race
for 22ft. boats the following competed : Syren (scratch),
Bosetta (scratch), Uranus (1 min.), Buttercup (8 miu.).
The Rosetta came in first, but Buttercup won on her
time allowance by 1-| min. For the 18ft. and 19ft. boats
the following started : Lucia (scratch). Effie (1 min.),
Alert (4 min.), Bacchante (4 min.). The Lucia won,
after a capital race. For the 16ft. race the starters
were: Nereid (scratch), Regina (scratch), Ouida
(scratch), Ettie (1$ min.). Fidget (3 min.). After a
capital race, Regina won, Ouida second. The race for
24ft. boats was further postponed.
JOTTINGS FROM MELBOURNE.
[FROM OUR L[?] CORRESPONDENT.]
February 1, 1880.
A French Bank has been opened in Melbourne.
The Bishop and Mrs. Moorehouse, who have
been on a visit to Tasmania, returned on Wednesday.
The Toorak Harmonic Society gave one of their
pleasant entertainments on Thursday evening, in the
hall of Toorak College.
Nearly everyone is out of town, and the visitors’
lists at the seaside resorts present quite a lengthy and
pretentious appearance.
All the new jewellery is of the quaint antique
Japanese style, and jewelled anklets have been intro-
duced for evening wear.
All shades of red will be worn in the Autumn —
the newest tint of all being known as coucher-de-soleil,
and is described as orange-red.
We learn with regret that Dean Macartney has
lately been in ill health, and that Mr. James Blackwood
died at Mont Alto, Toorak, after a long illness.
Wedding dresses are still made with very long
trains, but not trimmed in the slightest, and tuille
veils are preferred even by those who could afford lace.
During the week there have been a few dances.
One at Mrs. Alsop’s, Hawthorn, was enjoyable.
Another —at Mrs. Archer’s, Windsor—was also very
pleasant.
Mrs. Howitz advertises a farewell concert for
Saturday night, which promises to be a success.
Madame Bose Hersee is to sing, prior to her departure
from the colonies.
The preparation for the Doll Show and Fancy
Fair, advertised for next week, are being actively
carried on. Many of our leading milliners and cos-
tumiers intend exhibiting.
Largo square collars are much worn just now,
made of linen for morning wear, and lace for evening.
Buffs are coming into fashion, and they are pretty and
becoming to nearly everyone.
Superintendent Hare’s friends were sorry to
learn last week that he had again been suffering from
erysipelas, which showed itself in the hand that was
wounded when he was engaged in the capture of the
Kellys.
The City State School children’s performance
in the Exhibition was very successful, and was under
the conductorship of Mr. Allen, whilst Mr. Summers
officiated at the organ. The Minister for Education
presided.
It is rumoured that Mi»s Blanche Clarke,
daughter of the Hon. W. J. Clarke, is shortly to be
married to Lord Hervey Phipps, son of his Excellency
the Governor. Miss Clarke only came out this season,
and gained universal admiration.
We hear that Miss Christian intends extending
her visit to New South Wales, and that several Mel-
. bourne artists join her shortly for a concert engage-
ment. Amongst them are the names of Miss Anuis
Montague, Mr. Turner, and Mr. Parley.
Exhibited in one of the music-sellers’ windows
in Collins-street are two pictures by Miss Moateith, of
Scotland, said to be exact copies of Miss Thompson’s
(Mrs. Butters) famous pictures—“ Quartre-Bras” and
“ The 8011-Call.” They are exciting much admiration,
and crowds surround the window.
It is generally understood that Dr. James is
shortly going to England. His successor, Dr. Gerdon,
is young, unmarried, and said to be the handsomest
man in Europe; and Dr. James’ patients gratefully
acknowledge that he has done his best to alleviate the
regret which his intended departure occasions.
A few gentlemen met at Allan’s music ware-
house, on Wednesday afternoon, to discuss the ways
and means of inaugurating a fund to establish some
memorial of the late Mr. W. S. Lyster in onr city, and
it was arranged to hold another meeting on Monday
afternoon, when all interested are invited to attend.
The Hon. W. J. Clarke’s yacht Janet made a
fine trip to Tasmania, and report says she encountered
rather severe weather, in which her sea, going qualit es
were satisfactorily tested. Her owner and a di.->-
tinguished party, including Captain Payne, lately in
1 the service of the Victorian Government, were on
board.
Last week, the medals for Ion? service were
awarded, at the Town Hall, to the Volunteers. There
was a large attendance, and the ceremony was an
interesting one. Amongst the recipients was the now
venerable Colonel Bull, of the Castlemaine Rifles Force
—a most popular and worthy officer, who has gained
the reverence and admiration of public and private
friends.
Bishop Thornton’s denial of the truth of the
report of his intended removal from the sea of
Ballarat to that of Adelaide was received with mixed
feeling. It is a matter of regret that some of the
churchmen appointed to act as head of the clergy fail
to gain the love and esteem of their more lowly
brethren.
At the complimentary concert tendered to Mr.
Perraton, at ’the Town Hal,l Madame Tasca wore a very
handsome dress of coral pink satin, trimmed with
cardinal, made with a long train. She always wears her
hair simply arranged without much adornment. Miss
Montague wore a brocaded silk bine and cream with
dark crimson roses.
Morning aprons are much worn. They are made
with bibs and pockets, generally of some fine material
trimmed with lace and ribbon hows. A good plan is to
make an apron of the same material as the dress. The
bib has a band, fastened at each corner, which goes over
the head, and the pockets, or one large pocket, will be
found most useful in the workroom.
Young ladies are quite as fond of crewel work
as ever, and some beautiful results are achieved. A tidy
arrangement for holding the silks can be made out of
two strips of holland with runnings scarcely an inch
wido, on which the silk rests until required. The prin-
ciple is just the same as that of the old-fashioned house-
wife that we used to keep our thread in.
The mail brings intelligence that delegates
from Chambers of Commerce in all parts of the British
colonies are to meet in London in February next, to
discuss the subject of Free Trade and the establishment
of uniform C nstom-house duties throughout t he Queen’s
dominions. This important proposition emanates from
the Dominion of Canada, and does it infinite credit.
Some one has been questioning the originality
of the London Town Talk, alleging that the contribu-
tion published in the Argus, December 18, had pre-
viously appeared, November 4, in the Parisian, a
weekly journal published in Paris. The Argus refuted
the statement by averring that they obtained the same
from a well-known litterateur in manuscript as original
contribution.
Mrs. Hickling, of Warrnambool, gave a picnic
on Wednesday, at which “the Bohemians” were pre-
sent. I must explain to the uninitiated that this is a
very select gentlemen’s literary and social club, the
members being mostly famed f«r a particular “ line.” 1
think they went to Warrnambool to play a cricket
match. Mr Alfred MacDermott (son of the solicitor),
Mr. L'-mghnan, and Mr. Owen Williams were members
of the club,
The congregation of Chalmers’ Church, Eastern
Hill, and Presbyterians in the colony generally, suffer a
great loss by the death of the Rev. Dr Cairns, one of
their oldest pastors. He was one of four clergymen
sent out to the colony by the Free Church of Scotland
in 1853. The rev. gentleman was in good health, and
last Saturday celebrated the 79th anniversary of his
birth, and was to have preached at Chalmers’ Church
the following morning.
News is to hand of a Russian young lady having
committed suicide, on account of the University
official’s delay in answering her application to be
inscribed as a candidate for a higher degree than that
of Bachelor of Arts, which she had obtained. Having
made a will, ordering her body to go to the Academy of
Medicine, she discharged a revolver into her heart. Ail
averse to high art education for women will make a
grand point of this in argument.
“Majorities,” saith an authority, “are in the
wrong at least nine times out of ten.” It is to be
hoped that in the election of Vice-presidents and
Managing Committee of the Melbourne Hof-pita!
the majority have acted in the tenth order in their
selecting the Hon. Robert Ramsay and Mr. John
Matheson as vice-presidents, and Messrs. Carton,
Meares, Bromby, Turner, Professor Elkiugton, and
Rowan as committee, by very substantial majorities
indeed.
The awards of the Melbourne International Ex-
hibition were published on Saturday. The ladies head
the list very creditably, and I am glad to see that the
jurors declined to give any award for wool-work pic-
tures, on the ground of their possessing no pretensions
to art. The specimens exhibited were thoroughly con-
demned ; and it is to be hoped that this useless industry
will now be at an end. Patchwork also was condemned,
as having neither beauty nor utility. The exhibit of
needlework sent by the N.S.W. Public Schools received
high praise.
Accounts of a number of weddings are to hand,
those that took place lately in New South Wales en-
grossing attention, together with Lady Loftus’s garden
party, at which a number of our colonists were present.
The most theatrical dresses worn by bridesmaids at a
wedding lately are described as beirg made of cream
mousselene-de-laine, trimmed with old gold, coloured
plush, and point d’Alenfou lace. The sleeves were
slashed, and puffs let in, trimmed with crimson and
chrysanthemums. With this costume they wore Nor-
mandy peasant caps and gold-coloured mittens.
The first of a series of marine concerts down the
Bay, on board the Golden Crown, took place on Tuesday
evening, and there were about three hundred persons
on board. An awning, decorated with flags, was placed
over the deck, and lanterns lit up the darkness. Mrs.
Cutter, Miss Josephine O’Brien, and Mr. Bergin took
part in the concert. Much amusement was caused by
a statement in a paragraph of a contemporary to the
effect that smoking ought to be prohibited from beneath
the covered portion of the boat, because several
persons were rendered quite ill from the smell of the
tobacco!
The proverbial “boys of Kilkenny were swate
erring blades,” but the ladies of Dublin, what words
will describe them for having, as a late telegram informs
us, formed themselves into a league with a view of
bringing about a settlement of the Land question.
Irishmen, as ladies know, are very amenable to the
charming ones of our sex, and it is just possible this
new development of the Land question may lead to
some arrangement—say the marriage of the principal
Land Leaguers to the daughters of the large laud
owners. In such an eventuality wouldn’t poor Paddy
be sold entirely. But poor Paddy is always being sold,
and, worse luck, has to pay the piper himself. Didn’t
our Charles Gavan Duffy declare himself a rebel to the
back-bone, and yet look at him now with a handle to
his name, a state pension and fine properties—one of
them presented to him by his admiring countrymen,
and paid for by them.
To our Readers.
The Editor of The Bulletin will at all times be glad
to receive information from correspondents living in
town or country or the other colonies on subjects of
general interest, more especially oh matters connected
with sport, the drama, and fashion. Communications
from ladies will be particularly welcome.
As it is intended regularly to record in The Bulletin
the leading social events of the colony, the Editor will
be glad to receive authentic information in this regard.
Great pressure on our space necessitates a variety
<>f interesting items being placed under the heading
“ Fact and Fancy Focussed,” to which column the at-
tention of our readers is specially directed.
The British Government has practically decided
to abandon Cyprus. They have stopped public works,
and withdrawn a war vessel. The event has passed
almost unnoticed by the Press. This shows the col-
lapse of Lord Beaconsfleld’s theatrical annexation.
No amount of talent will go far unbacked by
wo>-k. Work is the key to knowledge and eloquence, as
well as virtue. Without labour—without application—
nothing can be done, either in this world or in the next.
Application alone makes great men, great saints, heroes,
and men ot gjuius.
February 12, 1881.


Tailors, Drapers, &c.
T
HOMPSON AND GILES,
DENISON HOUSE.
358, 360, 362, GEORGE STREET.
SEEING NOVELTIES. *
In consequence of the great increase of their trade,
their importations this season exceed in value
FIFTY THOUSAND POUNDS.
THEY are now making their first display of the season’s
early shipments in all departments.
THOMPSON AND GILES
having purchased these goods in the best markets in
the world, are marking them at prices which
CHALLENGE COMPETITION.
The same quality of material cannot he sold at lower
rates.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MILLLNEET.
('THOMPSON AND GILES have
opened their extensive Shipment
of Millinery, which they are now
exhibiting in their Show-Eooms —
all choice goods—and we feel as-
sured that those who favour us
with an inspection will be highly
gratified at the novelties they are
now displaying. The importations
’ comprise an extensive assortment
of British and French Millinery,
made especially for Thompson and
Giles by the leading houses in
London and Paris. Ladies'
trimmed Bonnets and Hats from
18s 9d. Ladies' Caps, Flowers,
Feathers, Headdresses, Oma-
_ ments, &c
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
MANTLE
AND
FICHU
DEPARTMENT.’
("THOMPSON and GILES’ MAN-
TLES, FICHUS, and JACKETS.
—We wish to call the particular
attention of the Ladies to this
Department, as we have opened
the finest lot of Fichus, Mantles,
Capeletts, and Jackets that has
ever been exhibited in Sydney.
Our Stock consists of many new
designs in shape. Wehavealarge
variety of Braided Fichus from 9s
lid to 30s j Mantles, handsomely
trimmed, from 25s to 635; trimmed
Cashmere Mantles, from 16s to 30s.
Large lot of French Mantles, pur-
chased very much under the usual
prices; some very choice styles, and
at very low prices. Ladies’ Elastic
Jerseys, to lace and button, in
every colour and material. Chil-
dren’s Jerseys, all colours and in
every size.
THOMPSON
and
GILES'
COSTUME
DEPARTMENT.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
WASHING
FABRICS.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ COS-
TUME DEPARTMENT, from the
first houses in London and Paris,
in every style, from which Ladies
can select in accordance with indi-
vidual taste. Summer Costumes,
from 42s to 6 guineas; all new de-
J signs and trimmings. An immense
| variety of Washing Costumes, in
cambrics and French percales,
printed sateens, plain sateens,
Galatea stripes, and British prints,
from 15s to 30s, all good styles and
well made. Elastic-fitting Cos-
tumes, in a variety of colonrs, and
. other fabrics, &c.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ WASH-
ING FABRICS. —Our range of
plain and printed Washing Dress
Materials is most extensive, em-
bracing all styles and prices in
both French and British Cotton
and Linen Textures. The designs
and colourings have engaged our
best efforts, and we venture to
affirm that a more complete ship-
- ment of choice Washing Materials
has never been imported to the
colonies. British Prints from 4fd
to BJd; French Percales, from 9Jd
to 14d; French Sateen, from 9|d
to 18d; Plain French Sateen, from
lOd to Is 6d; Royal Navy Striped
Galatea Cloth, at all prices; At-
talea Cloth, in all colours, from lOd
to 14d; French Cambrics, printed
_ and plain; British Cambrics, &c.
THOMPSON
and
GILES’
PARASOLS
and
UMBRELLAS.
("THOMPSON and GILES’ PARA-
SOLS and UMBRELLAS.—We
have received some very choice
designs in Fancy Parasols. Ladies
will find novelties of the newest
description combined with cheap-
ness. Our prices commence 3s
lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s 9d, 10s 9d to
20s. We have in stock upwards
of 5000 Parasols to choose from.
New styles and materials in silk,
Satin, Sateens, Tassy, in plain and
embroidered, and also some very
handsome Broche Silk. New
shapes at moderate prices. Ladies’
Umbrellas; a good stout silk 5s
lid, 6s lid; Paragon Frames, 6s
lid, 7s lid; Black Umbrellas at
_ all prices.
THOMPSON & GILES.
66
li
ACE CUETAIN S.”
EDWARD HORDERN
(the “HORDERN” of the city),
invites the attention of Ladies to his Splendid STOCK
OF LACE CURTAINS, just opened for the SUMMER
TRADE. LOVELY PATTERNS, in FERNS, PALMS
and OTHER DESIGNS of the RICHEST FOLIAGE,
5s lid per set, well worth ONE GUINEA.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only address).
A N N I X BEOTHEES’,
MERCHANT TAILORS,
■ST
IS THE
PREMIER
ESTABLISHMENT
IN THE COLONY
FOB
FIRST-CLASS
CLOTHING
TO ORDER
To Countht Gentlemen, —
We shall be most happy
to forward samples of our
New Goods; likewise Rules
for self-measurement; and
any orders that we may be
favoured with we shall im-
mediately forward to any
part of the colony.
Note the address:
MANNIX BROS.,
123 (late 109)
KING STREET.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
JB. Y O U D A L E,
• FANCY AND GENERAL DRAPER,
656 GEORGE STEE E T, 656
(Jnst below Liverpool-st.)
Tailors, Drapers, See.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
ORIENT CLOTHING
For Gentlemen's Spring and Summer wear, in new and
reliable fabrics, fashionably out, well made, and
finished in the best manner.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY
Birect special attention to their importations of ready-
made clothing for the Spring and Summer seasons, as
being unequalled in style, quality, and value, the
whole of their stock having been manufactured ex-
pressly to meet the requirements of the Australian
Climate in
Gentlemen’s Business suits,
Gentlemen’s Promenade suits.
Gentlemen’s Travelling suits,
Gentlemen’s Dress suits.
JJAYID
Orient
Sac Suits
JONES ANB . COMPANY’S
Comprising Coat, Vest,
and Trousers, in all the
favourite colours. Well
cut and finished in the
best manner.
32s 6d
per suit.
JJAVID
JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Bac Suite,
The latest shape; ause-\
ful and durable suit 35s per
for business and ordi- ’ suit,
nary wear.
B
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Bac Suits,
In light Homespuns and
thin Cheviots and Ban-
nockburns, for Spring
and Summer wear.
42s per
Suit.
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suite,
rln Choice Oriental )
I Tweeds, excellent for I 48s 6d
I general wear, in neat f per suit
k checks and mixtures, j
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Sac Suits
{Specially Light and')
Durable, the materials 1
having been well y f, s .' er
shrunk before being j
made up. ' J
D
AVID JONES AND . COMPANY’S
Orient
Walking Suits,
fin Superior Oriental')
Tweeds, cut in the fla
latest style, and *
finished the same as I * r
L orderei clothing. J
D
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Orient
Berg Suits.
/'Beautifully light
1 Texture, permanent in t 38s 6d
1 colour and very dur- f per suit
V. able in wear.
I]
B
AVID JONES AND COMPANY’S
Gentlemen’s
Orient
Clothing.
('Special attention is In-')
vited to our Orient I
Clothing, as being | Genlemens
the best value, and }• Orient
most perfect in stvle I Clothing,
and flnsh procurable I
in the colony. J
Gentlemen’s
Cricketing and
Boating
Trousers.
'ln Superior Tasmanian')
Flannel, thoroughly I 18g gd
shrunk.
Gentlemen’s
Summer Coats
in all the
Newest
Materials, well
cut, and nicely
finished.
{China Bilk Coats 16s 6d each.
Military Duck Coats, 14s 6d each.
Fine black Alpaca coats, 12s 6d each.
All Wool Merino Coats, 14s 6d each.
Superior Serge Coats, 21s each.
Black and Blue Sergerette Coats, 30s.
Gentlemen’s
Single Breasted
Walking
Coats.
rin fine Black Alpaca, 22s 6d each
I In Super Black Merino, 265.
In Blue Sergerette, 455.
Lin Black Sergerette, 455.
Gentlemen’s
D.B. Frock
Coats.
'ln fine Black Alpaca, 27s 6d.
In Black Merino. 30s.
Super Sergerette, 565.
Gentlemen’s
Washing and
Light Vests
for Summer
wear.
{Super White Duck Vests, 7s to 8s 6d.
~ „ in SelfColours, 8s 6d.
t , „ in Fancy Colours, 8s 6d.
Super White and Fancy Manilla, 8s 6d.
Black Alpaca and Merino, 7s sd.
Gentlemen’s
Overcoats for
Summer wear.
'ln Superior, all Wool')
| Tambary Tweed, well >■ 30s each
L finished. j
The
Orient.
r A Special Dress Over-')
coat, silk trimmings, |
J and facings, beauti- y
fully tight, and agree- j
55s
able to wear.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
OYS’ AND YOUTHS’ CLOTHING.
FOB SPRING AND SUMMER WEAR.
DAVID JONES and COMPANY invite the attention of
Parents, Guardians, and Heads of Scholastic Institutions,
to their EXCELLENT STOCK of BOTB’ and YOUTHS'
Spring and Summer Clothing, in all the favourite shapes
and most suitable materials.
Boys’
Knickerbocker
Suits.
Boys’
Blue Serge
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Drill
Knicker Suits.
Boys’
Sergerette
Suits
Boys’
Men of War
Suits.
Youths’
Tweed
Suits.
Youths'
Blue Serge
Suits.
}
In neat fashionable
Tweeds, neatly cut
and well made, and
finished.
7s 6d, 8s
Bd, 12s 6d,
13s 6d, 16s
6d, 17s 6d,
19s 6d per
suit.
(In new shapes, veryN 12s 6d to
■J prettily trimmed, and [-198 6d per
(. thoroughly well-made. 3 suit.
In fancy and pinin')
Drills, trimmed in I
new and effective (
styles. J
For dress wear, extras
finished, superior I
material, and excel-,
lent shape. )
6s lid, 7s
6d, 9s 6d
per suit.
20s to 27s
6d per
suit.
Iln superior Navy Serges
complete with lan-
yard. whistle, badge,
collar and undershirt.
24s 6d to
27s 6d per
suit.
{ln light and dark mix-')
tures, cut in fashion- j 21s fid to
able styles, well >to 23s 6d
trimmed and strongly ] per suit,
made. J
(In fine durable Esta-1
mene Serge, admirably 22s to 27s
adapted for school and ' 6d»
general wear.
Teuths’s Dia-
gonal and Ser-
gerette Saits.
| For dress wear
- trimmed and made in
' a superior manner.
28s to 40s
per suit.
DAVID JONES AND COMPANY.
Tailors, Drapers, &c.
R. C. H AGON’S
FASHIONABLE
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
127 King Street.
XMAS NOVELTIES
Laid out on Christmas Tables, with presents,
at Is, Is 6d, 2s 6d, 5s, and upwards.
A NICE LOT OF LADIES’ BAGS.
EXHIBITION KID GLOVES SOFT AND RELIABLE,
2-BUTTON 4-BUTTON 6-BUTTON
2s 9d 3s 9d 4s 9d
OK POSTED ANYWHERE
3s 4s 6s
JUST OPENED A LARGE SHIPMENT OF BLACK.
Cut Paper Patterns, All the New
Garments, Posted 2s.
PRESENTS AT ALL PRICES
SPRING MILLINERY NOW OPENING.
DEESSMAKING.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN THE CITY.
TWEED SUITS TO ORDER, IN FIVE-BUTTON SAC PATTERN, 70s.
SC
99
SKA
WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED TROUSERS, to order, 16s. 6d.
ALL GARMENTS WELL SHRUNK. FIT GUARANTEED.
i a a n i t a i m
Ladies be much interested
WITH THE BARGAINS and NOVELTIES IN
SUMMER HOSIERY AT EDWARD HORDERN’S
(the “ Hordern ” of the city). LADIES’ HOSE, which
have ALL THE APPEARANCE AND FINISH of the
best SILK GOODS, are GIVEN AWAY for 8*d PER
PAIR; up-town shops CANNOT TOUCH THEM AT
2e 6d. Come and see them.
668 BRICKFIELD HILL (only).
EXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
EXCELLENCEWTIH ECONOMY.
JfjXCELLENCE WITH ECONOMY.
171 PITT STREET,
EDMUND WEBB,
NAVAL AND MILITARY TAILOR.
14s 6d„ 16s. 6d., 21s., 25s.
TEOUSERS. TROUSERS. TROUSERS.
All wool and well shrunk
50s. BANNOCKBURN SUITS, in 4-Button
Sac pattern,
well shrunk, cut to suit the individual
taste.
ALL COATS FITTED before FINISHED.
Note the Address —
( 127 KING STREET,
,XJ, I Five Docks From Pitt-St.
N.B.
Business Announcements
[Legal.]
SHORTER, FITZGERALD, AND ASHER
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, DUBBO.
Mr. Shorter, Notary Public.
T EGAL.—Mr. T. M. SLATTERY,
SOLICITOR, has commenced the
practice of his profession, at 189 (late 235)
PITT-STEEET, opposite the Evening
News Office.
MAC L E 0
PORTRAIT PAINTER,
225 BOURKE STREET, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
D.
G.
AND S. P R E D D E Y.
SAW MILLS AND TIMBER YARD,
16 Erskine Street.
Every description of Foreign and Colonial Timber,
Doors, Sashes, Shingles, Palings, Laths, Architraves,
Mouldings, Cases, Turnery, &c., at lowest rates.
ICTORIA VARNISH COMPANY.
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
OIL AND COLOR MERCHANT,
Imx>orter of Paporhangings,
Oils, Colors, Varnishes,
White Lead, Glass, Brushware,
Marble and Enamelled Slate Mantelpieces,
Fenders, Tiles, and Grates,
Room and Picture-Frame Mouldings.
281 (Late 273), GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
H A R V E
WHEELWRIGHT AND WAGGON
BUILDER, &c.
Hay and Engine Streets.
Y.
Established 1851.
Builder of WAGGONS, DRAYS, SPRING CARTS,
BUSINESS CARTS, LORRIES, &c.
Railway Contractors would find it to their advantage
inspect the large stock of seasoned material
able for Dobbins and other Railway Plant
J. HARVEY,
Hay and Engine Streets.
gANDER LAZARUS AND CO.,
General Importers of
AMERICAN HARDWARE,
CHINA, GLASS, EARTHENWARE,
E. P. WARE, CUTLERY,
STATIONERY, CLOCKS. JEWELLERY,
BERLIN WOOL,
AND FANCY GOODS
INDENTS EXECUTED LOWEST RATES.
YORK STREET,
G. CHURCHWOOD
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTURER
OF
COFFEE, PEPPER, SPICES,
AND
SAUSAGE SKINS,
147 YORK STREET.
R
N
INTI
Of Every Description
AET REDUCED RATES
Executed with Despatch by
JOHN WOODS and CO., 13 Bridge-street
(Late Foster and Fairfax).
G
Also,
?ÜBLISHING OFFICE of “THE BULLETIN.’
T
HE BEST AND LARGEST STOCK
of
WOOLLENS
in the colony.
FASHIONABLE AND FIEST-CLASS
GARMENTS TO ORDER
at
J. TURNER ROBINSON, & OO.’s
MARKET CLOTH HALL
482 (late 484) gkorge street,
Opposite the Fruit Markets,
Established 1864.
REDUCED PRICES!
TEOUSEES TO OEDEE, FEOM 8s 6d
TEOUSEES & VEST, 16s
SUITS TO MEASUEE, 37s 6d
All goods well made, well shrunk, and a
perfect fit guaranteed.
TAILORING COMPANY,
16 PAEK STEEET,
(Near George-street).
Are now making to measure—
Fancy Silk Vest 12s. 6d.
West of England Tweed Trousers... 12s. 6d.
,, Suits 50s.
All good, thoroughly shrunk and a good fit guaranteed.
R. L. LINDSAY.
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XTXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XX XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
at HORDERN’S
PITT STREET
IN
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
You can buy CAEPETS @ 1/H»
FLOOECLOTHS @ 2/11
(seasoned). XX
Every description of FUENISHING— yy
not Furniture. XX
XX
tar Eehexbeb : XX
J. L. HOEDEEN, ||
In PITT STEEET—211. XX
XX
xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
JJON MARCHE, 96 KING STREET.
The LARGE and Weekly increasing Business of the
Bon Marche is due to the following statements :—
First. —All our Goods are of the very best procurable
manufactures, being imported direct from the leading
manufacturers.
Secondly.—The Prices are only a very slight advance
on London prices for the qualities of Goods offered.
Thirdly.—Every Steamer brings fresh supplies, con-
sequently the Stock is always well assorted with new
Beautiful Fresh Goode.
LEADER AND STARK
are determined to keep up the deservedly good reputa-
tion of the Bon Marche of the Southern Hemisphere.
AND BEST GROCERIES
AT
MARK ISAACS' COEPOEATION STORES,
HAY STEEET, HAYMAEKET.
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap and good.
Goods packed and delivered free of charge round the
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBERALLY DEALT
WITH.


Hotels, &c.
T
HE COMPAGNONI PALACE
CAFE AND CATERING COMPANY. (Limited)
The ladies’ and gentlemen’s RESTAURANT and CAPE
IS NOW OPEN.
The Company have secured the services of Mons.
Marriette, late cWf de cuisins of the Union Club
Hotel, Melbourne.
Privat© rooms for special dinners for select parties*
Three hours notice required for private dinners.
The spacious rooms of Messrs. Compagnoni have
been greatly enlarged, re-decorated and furnished*
Every attention will be paid to the patrons of the
establishment.
SAMUEL PACKHAM,
Manager,
June 30,1880,
COMPAGNONI PALACE CAPE COMPANY
serve up in their best style
OYSTER STEWS
OYSTERS SCOLLOPED
OYSTERS PRIED
. and
OYSTERS NATURAL.
Patrons of our Theatres and Concert Halls will find
FRESH OYSTERS at
COMPAQNONI’S, opposite Victoria Theatre.
HOTEL,
WEHLOVV’S WOOLPACK
PARRAMATTA.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION FOR FAMILIES.
Wines, Spirits and Ales of the very best brands, at
moderate charges. First-class Bowling Green for the
use of those who are fond of recreation.
N
E W
ZEALAND.
To Todbists and others Visiting New Zealand.
WAIWEEA HOTEL
(Hot Springs and Mineral Curative Baths),
NEAR AUCKLAND.
LAKE HOUSE, OHINEMUTU, ROTOKUA,
(Sulphur and other Baths of every description). 24
hours’ journey from Auckland.
TERRACE HOTEL, TARAWERA
(Wairoa), in the vicinity of the far-famed ROTOMA-
HAN A TERRACES, one of the Wonder Spots of the
World), near Ohinemutu.
ELLERSLIE HOTEL
and
PUBLIC GARDENS, AUCKLAND.
Visitors to Auckland can make through arrangements
at any of these favourite establishments.
On receipt of telegram or letter addressed to “ The
Manager," at Ellerslie, the fullest information will be
immediately supplied.
ROBERT GRAHAM, Proprietor.
THE MEDICL VIRTUES OF THE WAIWERA
AND ROTORUA WATERS (NEW ZEALAND),
BY D.r. ECCLES.
Lake House, Rotorua, 12th September, 1880.
I have visited Waiwera (Hot Springs), also Lake
House, Ohinemutu, and the Terrace Hotel, Tarawera,
on a tour, for the purpose of investigating the properties
of the various Hot Springs. T have in each case stayed
at the hotels owned by Mr. R. Graham, and have to
thank him and his managers for the great courtesy ex-
tended towards me. The Springs at the first twomen-
tioped places, I feci confident, possess the most valu-
able medicinal qualities, whilst the Terraces (easily ac-
cessible from the last-mer Toned place) are such that
every person possessing the me. ns ought to visit. The
internal arrangements of the various hotels hav* been
made to meet the requirements of Invalids and Tour-
ists, and this object has been fully fulfilled.
A. LESLIE A. ECCLES,
8.A., M. 8.. Cantab; F R.C S., L.M., Edin-
ENGLISH TOURISTS
T°
And Visitors from the neighbouring Colonies,
and the Public generally.
BLUE MOUNTAINS, NEW SOUTH WALES,
THE IMPERIAL HOTEL,
MOUNT VICTORIA, ’
Is in the midst of all that is worth seeing on the Western
Mountains. First-class accommodation for families
and gentlemen. Comfort, cleanliness, and civility,
combined with moderate charges.
J. G. COUSINS,
Proprietor.
RECOMMENDATION IN VERSIFICA-
TION.
ROW’S FARMER’S FRIEND, or EMBROCATION
Deserves the highest commendation
Of every philanthropic nation.
This is not vain expatiation;
For ’tis a well-proved application
For all external inflammation
Whate’er its stage or complication;
In callous state or suppuration.
On human kind or brute creation.
It claims the just appreciation
Of those who’ve felt alleviation
Of pain, which reached excruciation.
And stayed all zest for population.
To men of sense and reputation
I simply say in confirmation .
Of the foregoing lucubration —
Just use your powers of observation!
View the surprising renovation
Made by this virtuous preparation.
On our rheumatic population;
Or gouty folks (who hate starvation).
And raw-boned brutes whose glad ovation
Is heard in neighing cacchiuation.
Or seen in cock-tailed exultation
Or frisky, frolicsome elation.
In contrast to their sad prostration
Which made them wish for poleaxe-ation.
Then —friends of suffering creation—
You can’t withold your admiration.
Before I close this recitation,
I wish to add this dehortation.
Beware of spurious imitation,
Called “Farmer’s Friend," —ugh, botheration !
It’s nothing like ROW’S EMBROCATION,
Which should be kept on every station,
And prized as much as daily ration.
Prepared solely by
BDWD. ROW and COMPANY,
and sold by all chemists and storekeepers throughout
the colony. 3s 6d bottle.
P.
R. LARK]
Wholesale and Retail
PRODUCE MERCHANT,
V.
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS STREETS,
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORES—
-48 Qeorge-strcet West (late Parramatta-street).
And
Darlinghurst Road, near William-street,
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and Seed Oats.
P. R. LARKIN,
Wholes alb and Retail Wine and Spibit Mkbchant,
778 and 780 GEORGE- STREET SOUTH,
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete with a well-assorted
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wines, Spirits, Ac.
N.B.—Orders by post punctually attended to, POST
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Haymarket.
Hotels, &c.
O
CCIDENTAL HOTEL,
WYNYAED SQUARE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
WM, TANNER, Proprietor.
(Late Club House Hotel, Orange.)
Situation Central Terms Moderate.
c.
W. R 0 B E E T S,
MARKET STREET,
FOB LIEST-CLASS WINES. SPIRITS, AND
BEEES.
J C. WALKER
(Late COLLINS & ROACH),
SEATED WATERS, GINGER BEER,
and
CORDIAL MANUFACTURER,
438 HARRIS STREET. ULTIMO.
Hotels, &c.
FOSTER.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE PEST POLICY.
f
Solo
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully co 'iipared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in .small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
E
ASTERN SPECIALITY TEA COMPANY.
CABLES AND ANDERSON
Direct special attention to their PRICE LIST of
CHOICE TEAS—
A good useful tea
Good family tea
A really first-class tea
1/3
1/6
2/-
A fine blend of Indian and China2/6
Finest blended tea, unsurpassed, 3/-
Finest Indian pekoe 4/-
Superior coffee 1/6
724 GEORGE STREET,
HAYMARKET.
ESTABLISHED 1837,
p O W 1 E E’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET,
(Near Hunter-street),
HELLYER,
ELECTRO-PLATER AND GILDER,
42 Park-street,
SILVER-PLATED JEWELLERY.
Articles of jewellery etc., plated by the above will wear
equal to Solid Silver.
Articles of table wear, etc., replated and guaranteed
to wear equal to the best
English Electroplate.
REMOVED TO 88 ELIZABETH STREET
(Near Hunter-street).
B
OOTS! BOOTS!! BOOTS!!!
MAKE YOUR PURCHASES
AT
H. HILDER’S
NEW BOOT SHOP,
670 GEORGE STREET,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
ALL NEW GOODS, JUST LANDED,
AND TO BE SOLD
AT TEE
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES.
NOTE THE ADDRESS:
H. H I L D E E.
670 GEORGE STREET.
Brickfield Hill.
Hotels, &c.
rOHN A. WILKINSON,
WINE GEOWEE & MERCHANT,
COOLAITA WINE CELLAE
A. S. N. Co.’s Wharf, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Vineyard : Coolalta, Braoxton, New South Wales.
PEICE LIST OP
COOLALTA WINES.
Extra fine quality, 425. per dozen.
I
ICE. ICE ICE.
E
FROM FILTERED WATER,
Supplied in ant Quantitt,
AND AT REDUCED PRICES,
Direct from the
CITY ICE COMPANY’S WORKS,
WATERLOO
Office —24 O’CONNELL STREET.
T
HE GENUINE EAU DE COLOGNE
IS THE
No. 4,
Distinguished by the Label
C-..
Manufactured by
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
JULICHS-PLATZ, Nro. 4.
COLOGNE, o/Kh. (Germany).
Patent Purveyor to Imperial, Royal, and other Courts-
By appointment to His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales.
Prize Medals: —London, 1851; New York, 1853; London,
1862; Oporto, 1865; Cordoba (Argent. Repub.), 1871;
Vienna, 1873; Santiago (Chili), 1875; Philadelphia,
1876; and Capetown, 1877. (Paris, 1878—Germany
not represented.) Sydney, 1879.
Notice.—The Public are cautioned against numerous
spurious IMITATIONS, fraudulently styled “ Farina
Colognes; and notice is hereby given, that my Trade-
Marks being duly registered, all imitations will he pro-
ceeded against to the full extent of the law.
JOHANN MARIA FARINA,
Jillichs-Platz, No. 4.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MESSRS. RABONE, FEEZ, & CO.,
3 WYNYARD SQUARE,
SYDNEY.
IS THE
TAEPING MIXTURE
THE REALLY GOOD TEA IT IS REPRE-
SENTED TO BE?
“I have analysed an Original Packet of The
Taeping Mixture, and I certify that it is com-
posed of Pure Uuncoloured Teas, and admirably
flavoured with delicate and harmless scenting,
which renders it very palatable. I can recommend
it as being a wholesome and refreshing article of
diet.
“ Karl Theodor Staiger,
“ Analytical Chemist.”
Agents:
EDWARD CLARKE, Oxford-street.
P. BOWES, Darling Point.
WILLIAM HUGHES, William-atreet.
R. S. TIGHE, Brickfield Hill,
THOS. E. QEDDES, Railway Tea Mart, Opposite
Station).
J. HAQERTY, Old South Head Road, Paddington.
JOBEET BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
ComrrnT Obdkbs Reckivk P bom ft Attention.
The Celebrated
WOLFE'S
SCHNAPPS
The PurestStimulant
The Name of M. MOSS tc CO.
la on every Q-enuine Bottle.
J U N I P E E TEEE GIN.
This celebrated Dutch Gin may low be obtained of
all storekeepers a-id respectable hotelkeepers. One
trial will prove it superior to the common weak unma-
tured Gin now so largely eonfcnmed.
sS
rd
2
b~)
xrl
m
in
S3
SS
i
SUPERIOR to SCHNAPPS, at half the price.
Celebrated for its PURITY and FLAVOUR.
Wholesale Agent —«J MAS. B A T H,
2 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IT isnot the clearness - .aiuon alone of Bull Deg
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no ntbpr brand has uic same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, aid the great keeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
fore cautioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. E.. C ATT Kb ard
CO., Sole Agents.
RAPE MAHjy
iR
OAE’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brand of
STOUT
Is selected with great care from the best of the brew-
■igs of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
and CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J. R CATTELL and CO.,
Sole Agents.


" THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
Those “ Penzance ” dresses.
“ Penzance” first in Sydney.
“ Pinafore ” at the Royal 19 th.
Patti’s singing time —30s a minute.
Mr. W. H. Leake has returned to Melbourne.
Cole’s circus reached Melbourne on the 3rd inst-
Emmett is playing anew piece, “ Fritz, in Ire-
land.”
Tyrrell made a good hit at Gympie as John
Stofel
Miss Pomeroy opened at Adelaide on the sth
instant.
Gilbert’s “Wedding March” is the Gaiety’s next
attraction.
■ It is not true that John Jack is Firmin a com-
pany for Australia.
D’Or say Ogden and Miss Beatrice are a great
success at Brisbane.
Stuart O’Brien is Stage Manager and leading
man for Marian Willis.
Miss Emma Abbott would not play in so immoral
an opera as “La Traviata.”
Allison has engaged Miss Annie Barclay for the
whole of her Australian tour.
Cole, the circus king, is 32 years old. He is un-
married, but is accompanied by his mother.
Signor Salvini, the Italian tragedian, was to
open at Booth’s Theatre, New York, on Dec. 14.
At latest dates, the Soldene Opera Company
were doing moderate business in Toronto, Canada.
Mdlle. St. Clair will oblige by sending her ad-
dress to The Bulletin office. Important business.
The Western Suburbs Musical Society is prac-
tising actively for the concert, which takes place this
month.
Mr. George McNair Harkness, husband of Miss
Maggie Knight, died suddenly at Burns’ Hotel, King,
street.
Mr. and Mrs. Tavares are still m Brisbane,
where they occasionally give drawing-room entertain-
ments.
The Only Leon has been playing Maggie, in the
" Bonnie Fishwife,” at Melbourne. The dresses and
the acting were “ immense."
J. K. Emmett, who of course is not dead as re-
ported, is drawing crowds in Buffalo as “ Fritz." He
now limits his “ juice ’’ to one demi-john per diem.
Theo. Hamilton says the prize drama submitted
to him is too much for any of the leading actors of
Australia. W. J. Holloway is prepared to accept the
risk.
G. B. W. Lewis (otherwise Alphabetical Lewis)
has become chameleon, because he cannot reduce
salaries. The “ Murder of the Innocents ” will be the
death of him.
Miss Pomeroy was serenaded at Sandhurst.
There was great enthusiasm. This, however, was some-
what damped by a discovery that the musicians con-
sisted of the theatre orchestra. Miss Pomeroy goes to
Christchnrch.
Miss Marian Willis has made her first appea-
rance in Melbourne as a “ star,” and has created a very
favourable impression. She has a good figure, a hand-
some face, and a good delivery.
Alexander, the “ Australian Blondin,” was
seriously injured whilst performing at Geelong on the
14th January. The serial wire broke, and he fell on the
ground. He now lies in a precarious state.
“La Fille du Tambour Major” is the most
successful opera bouffe yet produced in Australia. The
Melbourne Opera House is crowded every night.
The Maryborough paper (W. B. and B. N.)
says that “Dr. Lynn,” the celebrated illusionist and
magician, who claims to be the greatest conjuror and
prestidigitator of the age, announces his appearance in
Maryborough for a short season. That man will never
die.
Legs, &c., are well developed in the “ Tambour
Major.” They are the attraction. The great majority
of the audience are girls under twenty, and boys over
sixty. They know a thing or two. The house is
crowded nightly. “ Tambour," with all accessories,
will shortly visit Sydney.
William Hoskins has gone to Adelaide with
Miss Louise Pomeroy and company. Myra Kemble
went to see the youthful hero, W.H., off—and while
bathing him with her tears, would ultimately have
drowned him, had he not been rescued from imminent
peril by Constance Deorwyn.
Mr. Robert M‘Wade and Miss Christian Halbee
were to have sailed from San Francisco for Australia
by the last mail steam sr, but after booking their places
were induced by Mr. Locke to remain another month,
during which they were to appear in “ Rip Van Win-
kle” at the Bush-street Theatre.
Let Geo. Coppin offer two hundred and fifty
pounds for a good play—with Sir Archibald Michie,
James Smith, and Judge Higinbothom as "censors"
—and the money will be gladly won and paid; and
Sydney will not be behindhand in responding for
another, at the same price, for themselves.
The Figaro predicts that the successor of J.
L. Toole, as premier comedian of the English stage,
will be found in Mr. Herbert Standing, a member of the
Criterion company, and the creator of Sir Percy
Wagstaffe in “ The Pink Dominoes,” of John Penryn
in “ Truth,” and of Captain M’Manus in “ Betsy."
The Pomeroy company did a very good business
at Ballarat. The company consists of the veteran,
Hoskins, F. C. Appleton, Hans Phillips, W. J. and
Charles Holloway, Searle, Boothman, Mostyne, and J.
H. Deorwyn ; with the ladies. Miss Kate Arden, Miss
Essie Jenyns, and the Misses Alice and Constance
Deorwyn.
“Courtship and Marriage” was Lotti’s last
“dart.” She had previously been pitching “Christ-
church by Day, and Christchurch by Night," to a good
attendance of pitites. If we are to judge by what we
read, it would seem that someone has been hoaxing
Lotti respecting the nocturnal haunts of the city she
lectures in.
Herr Bandmanr, Miss Beaudet, and Walter Rey-
nolds recently had a very successful season in Dunedin,
and the local paper in the course of a paragraph says :
“ An old English playgoer pays Mr. Reynolds the high
compliment of saying that, with the exception of
Macready, he never saw anyone play the part of lago
better than Mr. Reynolds.”
Miss Tilly Andrews continues to be a great
favourite at the Baldwin Theatre, San Francisco,
where she is playing in conjunction with Mr. W. E.
Sheridan, than whom, says a leading paper, no finer
actor, save Barry Sullivan, has yet appeared at Bald-
win’s. If comparisons could have killed poor Barry,
he’d have been dead long ago.
Asa burlesque on the great Sara, the San Fran-
cisco Minstrels announce “ Sara Heartburn ” in their
bills. She closed her New York season on December 4.
Contrary to the prognostications of many critics, the
audiences continued large to the end. During the last
week the theatre was crammed every night, even all the
standing room being occupied.
“ The Wedding March,” to succeed “ The Deal
Boatman ” at the Gaiety, is a translation of a French
absurdity called Le Chapeau de fraille d’ltalie,” and is
one shriek right through. It is adapted by W. S. Gil-
bert, and was first produced at the Court Theatre, Lon-
don, the author of “ Pinafore ’’ adopting the pseudo-
nym of “F. Latour Tomline.” It was a great success.
On Dec. 11, Mrs. Scott Slddons and her com-
pany had progressed as far as Chicago, where, at Hoo-
ley’s Theatre, they had been drawing crowded houses.
Extensive advertising is the order of the day, for we
observe that the whole of the back page of the New
York Clipper is occupied by an advertisement referr-
ing to the great successes achieved by Mas. Scott-Sid-
dons during her tour.
It is stated that Madame lima De Murska in-
tends to pay a second visit to Victoria. Nothing is said
about Hill, who, though in good health, is Hilly at the
London Strand. In default of conducting lima, he
conducts the orchestra. Perhaps she will ask him to
come; but if so, will he be able to Mursk a courage to
do so ? [We suspect this comes from a disappointed
suitor —perhaps a husband —of the diva’s. He needn’t
trouble further —Ed. B.]
There are at present in Sydney two clerks and
as many nondescripts, who have lately been doing a
country tour with a small variety company under the
miserable delusion that it was more pleasurable and
profitable than sticking to their desks; but the gents
have at last found out that theatrical management
is not a rosy game, and, on their return to town, coolly
and quietly disbanded their little company without
ante-iug up their salaries.
This looks very much as if the Canterbury
Times was poking fun at somebody. The Sydney .cor-
respondent of that paper says:—“ The new Gaiety
Theatre was opened on Boxing Night under most favour-
able auspices. Mr, J. H. Rainford, the lessee, delivered
a short opening address in blank verse, after which came
‘ Quilp,’ written expressly for Mr. Frederick Marshall
from portions of ‘ The Old Curiosity Shop.’ ’* Mr. Rain-
ford was the lessee of the address, for that night only,
it’s true; but the only thing that wasn’t blank about
that immortal ode was the verse. Lewis ought to send
the Times a copy. He’s bound to have a spare one.
It is entirely due to the exertions of Mr.
John Bennett that a concert was got up at Bur-
wood on the 3rd, which was the means of obtaining a
large sum of money for the destitute widow of the late
William Potter, who died very suddenly the other day.
Miss Christian gave her services gratuitously, as did
Miss Harvey, and Messrs. H. Wilkinson, W. Smith, T.
C Haylock, Percy Jones, and E. L. Scott. The last-
named gentleman caused great enthusiasm by an
admirable vocal rendition of the Lewis Scott Lancers,
after which he sang all the first act of his well-known
onera “ Mari tana,” and in response to an enthusiastic
encore, gave “ Take it, Bob,” also composed by him.
After the entertainment, Lewis was serenaded by the
big drum. Mr. Huenerbein presided—at the piano, we
mean : he has nothing to do with the big drum.
Sara Flower’s grave is at Newtown, and is in a
very neglected condition: —
SARA FLOWER.
Hushed is the voice, whose syren spell
Held captive every listening ear;
Silenced the song, whose softened swell
Could melt the soul and start the tear.
With none she loved to close her eyes.
Or, pitying, soothe each feeble moan.
Our greatest songstress sadly dies.
Unhonoured, friendless, and unknown.
Of all the thousands who admired
The matchless music of her song.
And listened till they felt inspired
With thoughts which scarce to earth belong—
Is there not one with wish or power
To save her name from Lethe’s wave,
And grateful praise poor Sara Flower,
Or plant a myrtle o’er her grave ?
So poor Imogene has come to grief, and is lying
in gaol In New York, committed for trial for complicity
with her husband, John A. Woodward, in robbing the
city Treasury (in which he held an important position
os clerk) of £18,000. Imogene was such a howling frost
wherever she went, that she never in any of her tours
drew a payable house. Her losses on each venture were
from £12,000 and upwards. She played La Cigale in
San Francisco about eighteen months ago, in oppo-
sition to Lotta, and sailed from thence to Australia.
At Sydney she was interviewed by a Bulletin reporter,
who saw she was a fraud, and nothing appeared about
her. It is thought that at least £5000 went to bolster
up these entertainments, as well as to supply the star
with luxuries, suppers, wines, carriages, and dress. In
one of her American trips £1200 was lost, and £1860 in
another. As she was not able to furnish the required
bail of £2000, she remains in prison until trial. This is
a curious incident in the history of the modern Stage,
and we shall look forward with some interest to the
denouement.
“ What is your opinion of Irving?” asked a
reporter of Mr. M'Cullough, the American tragedian.
“ I can hardly describe my feelings with regard to him.
There is a notion that he is the pet of a certain number
of men. But he has a great hold on the middle classes
—the kind of people who pay two shillings for a seat—
and every artist in London takes a pride in him. He
suggests all the artistic phrases of the play, arranges
the scenery, and designs the costumes. I saw him first
as Shylock. He takes a different view of the part from
any other man’s I have ever known. I liked it best the
second time. He is better as an actor of peculiar things
than as a tragedian. In * The Bells ’ and ‘ Charles I.*
he seemed to me to do as fine work as anything of the
kind I ever saw. It seemed to me he might play one
part well and another part poorly. Nature has not
given him the swell of passion. I can only say that in
artistic taste he is thoroughly imbued with the spirit
of his profession. In the way of producing things on
the stage in the best manner possible, he is unapproach-
able. Two weeks ago to-night I supped with him. At
noon of that day I saw the entrance to the pit of the
Lyceum crowded with people who waited until 6.30 to
get in.”
The Austrian Band.
The fourth concert of the Austrian Band took place
in the old Exhibition Building in Prince Alfred
Park on Saturday evening, and, notwithstanding the
very heavy rain, there was a fair attendance. The
various items were loudly applauded, and the conductor
had repeatedly to bow his acknowledgments; in some
cases an encore was irresistible. This is without doubt
the very best orchestra we have had the pleasure of
hearing in Sydney, its performances being beyond any-
thing of the kind attempted here. The conductor,
Herr Braun, F.J.M., has complete control, and there
are many things in connection with the performers that
might be copied by colonial orchestras. Thus the con-
ductor has not to wait for the tuning of a refractory
string or the regulating of an asthmatic flute; his as-
cent to his stand is the command for all to be ready,
and without any previous signal the music commences
with his first beat. There is no violent gesticulation or
frantic waving of the arms; the time is quietly beaten,
and a nod of the head to the various instruments is all
the signal required. All work together as a body, and
this, with the individual excellences, attains the great
result. The programme opened with a “ March Per-
sienne,” by Strauss, a quaint though lively air, intro-
duced by the flutes, with pizzicato accompaniment
by the violins, then taken up by the whole of
the band. The effect of the French hom,
an instrument seldom heard in Sydney, was
very pleasing. This item was loudly applauded, as also
was the second number, a selection from “ Nozze di
Figaro," which gave the first and isecond violins an
opportunity to display some wonderful execution. The
third number, "Qute Nacht,” by Abt, was decidedly
the gem of the concert. It was a tenderly loving air
played on the French hom by Herr Kuhe with the
orchestral accompaniment; the strings repeat the air,
and the last chords float away in delicate pianissimo by
the flutes. The beautiful tones of the hom sounded
like a rich baritone voice sighing forth a tender “ good
night ” to the loved one. This was received with rap-
turous applause, and had to be repeated. The next
number had also to be repeated—a violoncello solo,
played by Herr Patek, with harp accompaniment by
Herr Saxperger. “ Ave Maria," by Gounod.—This is
not the “ Ave Maria ” of Gounod’s which we have often
heard as a soprano solo, but is equally as sublime and
melodious. The tone produced on the ’cello was
delicately sweet and tender, and the air was infused
with all the pathos and sympathy which is capable of
being drawn from that instalment. The harp was
beautifully played, but we think a pianoforte accom-
paniment for the ’cello would be preferable, the arpeggi
being too thin for the sustained tone of the strings.
“Mein Lebenstauf Waltz,” by Strauss, followed, and
the conductor adopted the usual custom by leading the
violins. The “ Selections of English, Irish, and Scotch
Melodies” were very acceptable,—the familiar strains
of " The Minstrel Boy,” " Way down in Swanee River,”
“Auld Robin Gray,” “Last Rose of Summer,” and
** Home, sweet Home,” delighting the audience, even
though the last-named airs were played faster than
tradition authorises. A splendid imitation is given in
the introduction of “Anld Robin Gray," of thunder
by the basses, and of lightning by a splendidly exo-
cuted chromatic descent by the violins. Space does
not permit a criticism of the effects produced by the
various instruments in these selections, which are
brought to an end in the stirring strains of “ Rule
Britannia,” by the full band. The beautiful “ Blue
Danube Waltzes," by Strauss, were excellently played,
and most enthusiastically received. The introductory
strain is played by the French horns, and the first few
notes of the waltz are taken slowly—a practice which
we commend. The air is kept alternately by the violins,
flutes, and French horns, the trombones and basses
keeping a staccato accompaniment. The eighth num-
ber, “ Die Piorelle,” by Schubert, is a marvel of intri-
cate orchestration, and to say that the quintet variations
with violin, flute, ’cello, clarionet, and bassoon were
beautifully rendered is paying a just tribute to the
artists playing these instruments. It was loudly en-
cored, and repeated from the point where the ’cello
introduces the air. The ‘‘Pinafore Quadrille,” by
Sullivan, was another triumph for the orchestra; the
applause it received showed the approbation of the
audience. The last number, the “ Chasse du Lion
Galop,” by Kollen, was rendered with marvellous effect,
and had it been earlier on the programme, would have
doubtlessly received the heartiest encore of the even-
ing. The introductory air represents the meeting for
the chase ; the horns of the hunters are sounded, then
follow faint echoes of the distant horns; and, then by a
grand chord by the basses and trombones, the roar of
the lion is represented. Then follows the chase, a quick
sparkling air culminating iu the roar of the dying lion,
and the joyous burst of triumph from the horns,
acknowledged by the distant echoes. As a performance
with orchestral effect it is unique; criticism gives but
a faint idea of its effect. It will doubtless be included
in a future programme, when we should advise our
readers to hear it. The concert concluded with the
National Anthem, played by the full band.
PEPPER AND SALT.
There was an execution against one Reginald
Chiselem, gentleman, Glebe, lying at the office of
Messrs. Fincher, M‘Clurky, and Co., last week, and
respecting the serving of the same it was fully believed
there would be some trouble. Mr. Chiselem bore the
unenviable reputation of having previously shot three
persons whose conduct didn’t exactly coincide with his
Skimpole proclivities, and Mrs. Chiselem, on her part,
as the lawyers say, was known to have scalded one
bailiff, and rapped another on the head with an Ameri-
can axe with such enthusiasm that neither ever recov-
ered his former prepossessing appearance since. No
one cared to admire the Glebe scenery at any price, and
as a junior clerk remarked, the execution might have
lain there until it became petrified, if an impecunious
young gentleman with a soul to dare had not turned up
in the person of one Mr. John Joseph Queedy. Mr.
Queedy was a wormeaten-looking young man, dressed
in a pepper and salt suit, and an amber-coloured head;
and as he tapped at Chiselem’s door, writ in hand, he
determined to sell his life at the highest market value.
Mrs. Chiselem answered the knock, and Mr. Queedy
stepped back to dodge the water. None, however, came.
The whole thing was a cruel libel, and Mrs. Chiselem
was in reality one of the loveliest, gentlest, little
creatures John Joseph Queedy ever gaped at. He ex-
plained his visit. Mrs. Chiselem was so sorry: Reginald
had just gone to the bank, but perhaps Mr. Queedy
would try a little coke and wine in the back parlor
with her until her lord came home. Mr. Queedy felt
up to his nose in bliss as he followed his charming
hostess, and inwardly hoped the said lord wouldn’t
return until John Davies turned a Jesuit. It occurred
to J. J. on his entering, however, that a window blind
and an old tooth brush were scarcely sufficent fur-
niture to stock a back parlor, and it also struck him
that the fact of Mrs. Chiselem locking the door as she
went for the wine betrayed an anxiety for his personal
safety that wouldn’t be at all amusing to Mr. Reginald.
He stayed in that room for two days, and was at last
secured by a furniture van man who heard his screams
as he passed. The house was completely empty, and
Mrs. Chiselem after locking all the doors joined Reginald
at the station, and scooted overland to Melbourne.
John Joseph now says he never liked the law, but his
parents forced him into it.
“ Got any celery to-day, John?” asked a Post
Office clerk, as the Mongolian cabbage merchant can-
tered past his residenco. “Oh yes,” replied Confucius,
“ plentee celery me, but you lo gettee any money fo’
tlee weeks—goo’ day!" Then John polka’d off to trade
with the shoemaker opposite, whilst the civil servant
marched into slow music, murmuring, as he dragged
along:—
“ Can this be ?
We are ruined by old Fid, and the heathen Chinee.”
One hundred and fifty tons weight of a train
was used to test the new bridge on the Dubbo railroad.
This was simply a waste of time and money. If Davy
Buchanan had been asked to blow on it, or a special re-
porter hired to lie on it, the test would have been ten
times cheaper and fifty times more satisfactory.
Wien the Ridfern Times was first announced
to us, by a one-sheet poster being placarded over our
family key-hole, we were under the impression that,
notwithstanding its editor was known to be a clergy-
man, it would be a lively little rag, which would weekly
touch up the Eedfernites and the clergy generally. The
first issue was a shock, certainly, but the second num-
ber means disenchantment; aye;—
" Disenchantment, disillusion,
Must each noble aspira 11
But let us collect ourselves! No. 2 of the Reefers
Times contains a 245-line leader about a gentleman
named Gribble (“Phoebus, what a name!”) of the
“Warangesda” (another crusher!) “Mission,” and
then follows a literary “ corker ” in the shape of a rabid
temperance sermon by the editor (Rev. T. J. Curtis).
Then there is part of a tale—“ Barriers Burned Away “
—by the Eev. E. P. Roe (who is a very hard roe indeed),
a recipe for " babble and squeak," a ** cure for sprains "
(possibly a misprint for brains, since it commences,
“bruise a handful of sage”), and the following en-
thralling anecdote:—“A Persevering Boy.-When Dr.
Carey, the celebrated missionary, was a boy, he tried
one day to climb a tree; but his foot slipped, and he fell
to the ground, breaking his leg by the fall. This acei-
dent confined him to his bed for many weeks, and
caused him much suffering. When the broken limb
was healed, the first thing he did was to go and climb
that tree." Well, this is a fine editor ! First he lets
up on our expectations, and then he lets up on
his religion. There’s a boy to hold out as a good
example! Why we consider him to be neither more
nor less than a cold-blooded young ruffian. The first
time he climbs the tree he takes the knees out of his
pants and the toes out of his boots, and costs his
parents a small fortune in splints and medicines (to say
nothing of the language used over the patient by the
“ lodge ’’ doctor), but the moment he is on his legs
again he rexieats the offence again damaging his
clothes and risking his limbs, in pursuit of the apples
of a neighbour. No, dear rev. Editor, this sort of thing
wont “ gee.” You will have to give it up, or before you
run the Redfern Times more weeks, the front office
will be that full of road-metal, that the office boy wont
have room to write the labels.
One hundred and twenty years ago a certain
worthy knight could run in a bullock. I remember
seeing hint do it. It was a Nihilst looking sort of bul-
lock, and the knight ran him into a branding yard by
holding out a small truss of hay on a pole before him,
and drawing him on as it were under false pretences.
When the pair took full possession of the yard, how-
ever, John shut the gate, threw the hay over the fence,
and proceeded to lassoo his bullship. Exactly 2m. 40s.
after there was something lying in an adjacent allot-
ment which might be easily taken for a bag of wet
guano, but which when scoured up and clean ed proved to
be the knight who ran in the bullock. His clothes had
a layer of every specimen of mud that has been popular
from the carboniferous period down; and his lassooing
rope was twisted round him in a style that would bother
a spiritualistic medium. When he came to, he said
Heaven was his home, but no one about knew the road,
so they sat him up in a pub. and sent for the nearest
doctor. Dubbo papers please copy.
I could never make out why the grocer poet,
Meaden, was awarded the prize for his Exhibition ode
when Henry Kendall was in the swim as well; but one
squint at the two poems is enough to convince any sane
judge that the Yarra swan is by far the greatest poet we
have had since Dr. Watts sold out his plant and retired
from business. For instance, just glance at the
different openings. Kendall sings—
“ Brothers from far away lands—
Sons of the fathers of fame,
Here are our hearts and our hands—
This is our song of acclaim."
Now, that’s all very nice and gurgly in its way I admit,
but listen to the Sunday-school Milton and mark the
superiority of,his best coagou—
“ Oh come all you lads and lasses,
A song to you I’ll sing.
It’s of this Exhibition, .
Which is a great big thing.”
After that where’s your Tennysons, and your Popes,
Allens and Yirgils, and Phil. M’Carrolls ? Nowhere. I
have heard the prize was given to the Victorian bard
on condition he never wrote another line, but Dr. Barry
told me this, and I know he is prejudiced.
It’s a terrible satire if looked at in the right
way that the religious prints shouldn’t be able to get
their subscriptions in. It looks as if people won’t give
3s. 6d. to go to Heaven. Now, there’s the Witness. It
cries aloud. Some subscribers are over two years in
arrears. Fancy a man getting the Witness for two
years and yet not an honest man. Perhaps it’s the
paper that’s been the ruin of the poor fellow. Then,
the Presbyterian. That journal extracts the W itness
par. and prints it approvingly. Two years a subscriber,
and no subscription paid. We all know the Express
and Freeman notices, the former in leaded type,and the
latter in small pica within a black border. We’re very
much afraid The Bulletin has run the religious papers
off the track. People won’t believe now that the Pastor
Allens have a say in where a fellow goes. “ We are
moulding the country in the right as far as our circula-
tion extends,” says the Witness. “ We are moulding
this planet into sugar as fast as we can,” say Th£
Bulletin. “ In God we trust,” remarks the Presby-
terian. “All others cash down,” observes The
Bulletin. And we venture to say that when we all
meet “up there” (of course, we don’t mean Pastor
Allen and Dean Rubie), the only live paper will be
found all the rage. “ Have you got The Bulletin ?”
will be the first straight question you will get on
entering the portals, and of course if you havn’t and
you try and put it on "that d d postman again,” the
simple word will be “ go.”
There is a certain retired minister—no matter
whether of the Crown or the Church—who has the
love of his fellow-creatures deeply implanted in his
breast. The milk of human kindness exhudes from his
every pore. Children he dotes upon, all elderly per-
sons he esteems, and all Coffee Palace waitresses he
adores. It is one of his pleasant weaknesses to delight
to bask in the smiles of beauty. To that dear man the
world is surrounded by a roseate halo of romance. To him
'jrthe odours of Scotch broth and of mock-turtleare even
ns the odours of Araby; and, to his enchanted gaze, the
large, clump-soled “nines” of the Hebes are so many
Cinderella-like shoes of sparkling crystal. When seated
at his meals, while devouring his food with his teeth,
he devoured the giddy young flatterers with his eyes;
and he talked to them, and he joked with them, and he
made appointments with them—appointments in which
a dreamy contemplation of moonlit waters was sug-
gested. The young ladies, however, didn’t keep faith
with the good man, and many’s the pair of shoes
he wore out stumping the flags in Macquarie-
street, while awaiting the arrivals of the Mocha
nymphs. Finding he did not succeed (he had made
fifty appointments with different ladies, none of which
had been kept), he decided that his attentions had been
too diffuse, and therefore he resolved to limit his
addresses to the person of one fair and rosy handmaid.
With her, he requested an interview outside the new
public buildings at the comer of Bridge and Macquarie-
streets. To this she consented, and at the appointed
hour he was there in waiting with a cab. In the mean-
time she had written to a friend of hers,, a cook out of
place, stating that a gentleman would meet her, and
offer her a good situation—naming the time and place
of her own appointment. The cook went. She was
short and stout, and the night was hot, and as she
puffed up to the trusting place, she was somewhat sur-
prised to see a gentleman jump from a cab and seize her
by the hand, muttering the words, “Annie, darling,
here at last.” She released herself, with some indigna-
tion, and said—“l’ve come, sir, about the place."
“ Place,” he repeated. Then gazing up and down the
street, and seeing no sign of his innamorata, he
said —“ Humph! quite a nice person. Jump into the
cab, my dear” “Aren’t you the gent that wants a
cook, sir ?” “ Cook P what cook ?” “ A plain cook."
He eyed her with a wicked twinkle. “ Why, you don’t
call yourself a plain cook ?” said he. “ Never mind;
step into the cab, and ” But it was of no use. She
stood upon the proprieties as upon a rock. “ Why, you
old villain, you ought to be ashamed of yourself!” she
cried in a loud voice.” Stepping back (for he had
seized her hand) she added: “ Oh, you old monster!”
Anxious to avoid a scene, he jumped into his cab, and
ordered the man to drive away. Hardly had he com-
menced to congratulate himself upon his success in
avoiding a scene than he was surprised to see issuing
from various places of concealment about 45 Coffee
Palace waitresses, who saluted him with shrill cries of
derision. The good man now says that he never thought
much of the temperance movement, and he is at present
staying in a large Sydney hotel, desperately in love
with the housemaid. The simple word—“ White tie.”
Mr. Septimus Slink, J.P., besides being a magis-
trate of the territory, is in the modest parlance of his
lodge a “right worthy transcendently excellent and
sublimely worshipful grand master of the I.OjG.T.
fraternity." Although a teetotaller with the whole
twenty-six letters of the English Alphabet after his
name, he has a little generosity in his nature, and he is
so kind to James Hennessy that he carries about a free
advertisement of his celebrated three-star conspicuously
displayed on the top of his classic nose. Septimus is
always to the fore when a case has to be dealt with by
the licensing bench, and all his decisions are based
upon the strictest temperance principles. Not very
many months ago an enterprising business man bought
a piece of land in a western suburb and erected a mag-
nificent hotel, for which he applied in due form for a
license. Now, by a strange coincidence, it happened
that Ur. Slink was himself the fortunate possessor of a
public-house in the same neighbourhood, and the lessee
flatly told him that if the new house were opened
bis trade would be diminished, and the rent would
have to be lowered in consequence. When the day
arrived on which the new applicant’s claim was
to have been decided, Mr. Slink engaged half-a-dozen
THE BALLAD OF ORLANDO.
(OLD STYLE.)
This song—'tis of Orlando Carr
(He was a sad detractor—
And yet he was a Good Templar,
And bore a good Carr-acter.)
He loved —adored—one Mary Bull,
Of Lodge the Pi-o-ne-ah.
This Mary Bull was amia-bul;
He oft sighed “ heigho!” near her.
He loved her a long per-i-od;
Her better-half—or quarter —
A bricklayer was, and (warn’t it hod ?)
" J'aime taujours ” was his “ morter."
A picture-framer eke was Carr,
And “ deep " as Lake Ontario.
He was—despite the temp’rance jar—
A bit of a Lothario.
He framed not only pictures, but
Sweet sayings (that the deuce is!)
While Mary, at her wit’s end put.
Could only frame excuses.
“ Bee-like,” said he, “hive longed to sip.
My dear, of your lips’ honey ;
If not, you’ll have to do the * tip ’ —
The ‘ tip,’ you know, means money.
“ But if nor love nor ‘greed ’ I get
(He thought this a * back-hander ’),
On your good name I’ll put a ‘ set,’
With wicked lies and slander,"
He posted placards in his shop,
And on the house she stopp’d In,
Until, one night, the watchful “ cop."
First “ copp’d ” him and then *• shopp’d” him.
The knave was " sold ”; it was indeed
A kind of modem Carr-sell;
In-Carr-cerated by John Read
Is Carr now in Read’s Castle.


cabs, and had every J.P. on whom he thought he could
T ely brought to the Court at an early hour. He was on
that day to make the great speech of his life. I have
beard Dan seconding votes of thanks to any number of
“the grandest men in theworruld,” and I have heard
M'Gnven delivering his sublimest discourse on the
ennobling influence of a muffin scrimmage; but, for
frantic, side-splitting eloquence, I have never heard
anything that would bear the slightest comparison with
Mr. Slink’s earnest peroration upon the necessity for
“ minimizing the liquor traffic.” Nor was it without
its due effect upon its hearers, for the licence was re-
fused, the applicant ruined, and Mr. Slink, like the
“ wing of friendship,” never moulted -a feather. But
the scene is now changed. The Town Hall clock had
just struck twelve, and, as it sometimes happens to be
right, it may not have been very far from midnight.
Mr. Slink is bundled up in an untidy-looking heap on
his own hall floor, and the wife of his bosom confronts
him, holding a candle in her hand which sheds a weird
lustre upon the stern countenance of the conscientious
magistrate, where Hennessy’s free advertisement now
appears to have a particular prominence. The lady is
apparently very irate, and stamps her feet, violently
exclaiming. “Beastly, horrible, shocking, disgusting!
Where on earth have you been till this hour of the
night ? and how dare you enter this house in such an
abominable state ?” With a mighty, but mournfully
unsuccessful attempt to assume a look of magisterial
dignity, he simply answers, “ Min (hie) min-in-mizes
lik-ick-kicker traff, m’love!”
The education of a well-known pugilist has been
neglected, but he» like many other estimable persons
(amongst whom are numberless J.P.’s) is careful to
conceal his limited knowledge of the “four E.’s ’’ from
the general public. Well, this pugilist, in his journey
to the scene of his last battle, was accompanied by his
trainer —another eminent member of the P.E. whose
education had also been neglected. They stopped one
night at an hotel in Albury, and in the morning the
waiter laid their bill upon the table. The trainer took
it up, glanced over it carefully, and then, handing it to
the other, said, “ I think that will do, eh ?” Thus ad-
dressed, his brother gladiator clutched the paper, eyed
it over, and replied, “Yes —a fair thing enough;”
though at the same time both glanced uneasily at the
total. At this moment Jack Thompson happened to
enter the room, and on taking up the bill, said, “ Why,
this is a swindle. You’ve been charged double for
everything!” On this each prize-fighter looked re-
proachfully at the other. But suddenly a new light
dawned upon them, and they burst into a loud guffaw.
Neither had acquired the art of deciphering caligraphy,
and each one had been relying upon the other’s supe-
rior educational acquirements to pull him through the
trip.
Sarah Bernhardt is not only a wit in herself but
she is also the cause of much wit in others, as the
following collection of literary fireworks will, I think,
prove most conclusively. The Church of England
Eecord leads off by asking—“ Why has James Pemell’s
prize cow the advantage over a popular French
actress?” Give it up? Well, because the calves of
the former can be distinctly seen with the naked eye,
but the calves of the latter couldn’t be shown with
anything less than a forty guinea binocular.”] The
other respectable portions of the religious press imme-
diately sailed in as follows :—[“ Cow funny ! But that
is not lep-itimate criticism, and our dissenting brother
should remember when he next speaks of Sara’s—knee
sutor ultra crepidam."— Express.] L" SaraTl carve that
rag when she reads it.”—Witness.] [“Yes an-cle (an’
kill) the ragman also.”) Words of Grace.] [“ By
gar-ter is life in the old Eecord yet."—Christian
Weekly.] [Sarah certainly has a small foot, but we'll
stake our collar she puts a big head on the Eecord man
before he’s hanged yet.”—Watchman.] [“ Poor Sara!
Thigh faults are great, but thy punishment far greater.
And yet che cam sara ’’—Protestant Standard.]
Alfred Allen poetically observes, with all the
enthusiasm of a man who has just sat on a “ flying
horse,” that a poet must write or pine away to the
boneyard, and the swan must sing before it dies.
Alfred is too truthful to be a tip-top poet. If the swan
doesn’t howl before it dies, I am open to risk a trifle it
doesn’t do much of it afterwards. You should study
law, Alfred, or run a boot-shop, or give the horse-auc-
tioneering business a turn until yon are cured of that
morbid desire for truth-telling Which characterises all
your official utterances. A true poet cannot write
verse unless he lies, any more than a man can get all
hoaest living now-a-days unless he steals. Besides,
Alfred, you always choose such bald-headed old sub-
jects. Now, suppose you give us an ode ontheSewerage
Question, or turn the last Government Gazette into
choice hexameters ?
Tattersall’s Club is greatly exercised at present
to know what it should do to draw a crowd to Eand-
wick. Now, it all depends on what style of crowd is
wanted. If a crowd of boys, let TattersalTs engage a
Yankee circus; if a crowd of ladies, advertise a fashion-
able wedding to be celebrated on the lawn; and if a
crowd of men is most desirable, get up an opera bouffe,
with plenty of the leg-emotion running through it to
fetch the old gentlemen. I have never known the
above to fail yet—and I’ve even seen it tried in a
graveyard.
Professor Huxley says our globe contains about
three-fifths water, and two-fifths land. Now, to say the
least, this is a most undesirable state of affairs. There
ought to be about seven-fifths more water, and then
perhaps the Glebe Point Tricketts could manage to
pull something like one race out of four without
running their bowsprit into their opponents’ poop, and
rendering the water police extremely necessary. By
the way, there is a capital opening for a good, reliable
umpire at the Glebe just now. The salary is to be
nothing a week for the first year, but double during
the second, the principal duties being to do as he’s
told and open bottles.
He was just from Adelaide, and he yearned to
see the Zig Zag, even as a Lands Office clerk yearns for
pay day. Thinking Scott’s advice about viewing fair
Melrose by moonlight would stand good over here, he
went to Ba* hurst by the night train in order to fill his
soul with Nature’s loveliness, and if he hadn’t pre-
viously filled himself with lobster salad, and subse-
quently fallen asleep, perhaps Nature would have
frizzed herself up, and sent him home rejoicing.
However, after spending a healthy day in Bathurst,
he started for Sydney by the morning train; reached
Mount Victoria; “ partook ’’ of a good square meal, and
then took his seat in the carriage he had just vacated.
After travelling fifty miles or so, it did occur to the man
from Adelaide that the scenery over here was after all
pretty much of a muchness, and that a little variety
here and there would be most desirable. All the places
seemed alike. The same grassy plains stretched out for
miles around; the same rocks loomed overhead; the
same pubs graced the wayside track; the same bare-
legged, tow-headed young larrikins swung on the same
gates, and yelled the same “ hoorays,” and pelted the
same mud after the passsing train, and all the station-
master’s porters and other officials seemed to belong to
families conspicuous for raising twins. He felt full, up
to the ears, in fact, over mountain scenery, and lying
back, he observed with a yawn to his fellow-passenger :
“ Well, thank heaven half an hour more and we’ll be in
Sydney.” “Scarcely,” said the other man; “this is
the Bathurst train, and here we are at Kelso." The
man from Adelaide wasn’t aware that the cars changed
at Mount Victoria, and the officials there were too busy
discussing the Dulcigno business, to bother themselves
with such a trifling circumstance. Next morning our
hero started home “on his ear," fully sensible of the
fact that man proposes, but Goodchap disposes.
He was an anti-Coffee-Palace encourager, and he
was doing a go-as-you-please tournament about 2 a.m.
on Sunday morning when he brought up in front of a
Woolloomooloo iced drink bazaar, and after a desperate
struggle to keep the sign-board from dancing the Can-
can, read out the text as follows: —“ Shammer drinks.”
*’ Yesh, qui troo—Shummer drinks, an Shum are drunk
—wash awful worl this is.” And then placing himself
up against a friendly post in such a manner that the
waterspout could conveniently convey its teeming
contents carefully down his back, he proceeded to
address an imaginary Temperance Hall assembly on what
he termed “ Zh evils ov promisshis intoshercasion."
First offence—ss.
c< Another surprise! We always understood that
“Mary Stuart” was executed in the reign of Queen
Elizabeth. This belief was founded on the poetry and
dramas heaping contumely without end on poor old
Bess. The old girl, it would seem, was not so bad after
*H. Mary was not executed, but transported. She
wrote last week the Norfolk Island letter in the Aus-
tralian Churchman, and is exceedingly chatty on the
subject of altars. Eeferring to her pet one, she remarks
that “on the super frontal are worked in large gold
letters the words in Mota—LOG ANGA GOD VAVO
TUKA..” We have never heard the words before, and
therefore can’t translate the Mota. Her poetic spirit
still clings to her, for she says—“ • From Greenland's
Icy Mountains ’ was sung to the tune of ‘Aurelia,’ just
as a magnificent sunset cast a flood of light across the
ocean. There was a special fitness in the lines —
• Waft, waft ye winds His story.
And yon ye waters roll.
Till like a sea of glory
It spreads from x>ole to pole.’ ”
It is very satisfactory to us, after all the tears we have
shed over Mary, to find her thus complacently writing
about the pole, which we thought would be a tender
subject with her; and though reassuring to discover
the former Mrs. Darnley still in the flesh, we are some-
what snrpried to see her cribbing from Miss Braddon in
her burst in re the sunset. She don't say anything about
Chastelard, but should he be with her (the gay young
spark), we wish them Both-well. Wonders will never
cease—Mary Stuart on the staff of the Churchman !
By Jove, we shall begin to think next that Barry and
M‘Gibbon are only other names for Latimer and Eidley,
and that Bishop Gardiner writes the “ Eambler ” in the
Express, and that his late Eminence Cardinal Mac-
gillicuddy is looking after the tinpennies for the Free-
man’s Journal!
This is how some little Melbourne slip-spoiler
writes of the master of English novelists: —“ David
Copperfield is generally thought to have been meant
for Charles Dickens himself; and if so, the novelist of
the back slums contrived to greatly flatter himself, for
David Copperfield was of a much more amiable dis-
position in fiction than ever Charles Dickens was in
real life.” For the edification of this splendid critic,
we just jot down a few short lines, que voioi : —
Demosthenes Vardy says that the man who would
place temptation in the path of innocence is a fiend in
human form, but the man who placed a dab of demnnition
dirty wax on his chair is the concentrated essence of a
contaminated mass of putrid protoplasm—a thing
detested in heaven, and despised on earth—a grinning
ghastly ghoul—and a blot on society at large, that will
be wiped off the face of the earth even at the price of
the bk-lud of Demosthenes Vardy. Man and money
ready at the Central any hour before the concern falls
down.
His Wor-Ship-full the C.M.G.
Our very own John Davies is a diplomatist of a very
high order. This we have just discovered. Indeed the
C.M.G’s talents are always breaking through some part
or other of him, and stunning the unfortunate
journalist. John is equally good at putting a tire on a
corporation barrow as at organizing a picnic; and he
shines equally in repairing a municipal pick and in
giving a temperance address. As a public “ bluffer” he
is without a rival, and he can strike more fire out of his
molars at a quarterly luncheon than any combined three
of his confreres. John’s lines are cast in pleasant
places, and his path is strewn by the flowers thrown
under his half guinea M'Goys by an unsuspecting
public. He gets into every paper, and is cannoned into
every banquet. Services of plate fall into his lap ; and
he has enough sheep-skin testimonials to manufacture
big drums for the whole of the German army. When
this gifted soul undertook the management of the
Mayor’s picnic, he wanted, first of all a steamer—a
large one. He had but to wink slyly and whistle softly
and lo 1 the Coonanbara was put at the disposal of his
worship—gratis And strange to say—and of course it is
merely a droll coincidence—strange to say, at the very
time the Coonanbara was gliding over the waters of
Port 'Jackson with her precious freight, a motion was
standing on the paper at the Town Hall for leasing
the Lime-street Wharf, having a 300 ft frontage to
the Newcastle S.S. Company, who own the Coonanbara
for the sum of £1,400 per annum. It was leased to the
Company for that amount —the affair, of course, being
merely a pure and straightforward municipal matter of
business. Captain Byrnes, of the Pyrmont penny ferry,
made an application to lease his little water-frontage of
45ft. for the sum of £BOO per annum; as, however, the
Council .was determined to be thoroughly impartial, it
decided to call for tenders in the case of all oth<r
applications. This affair was thought to be comfortably
settled by the two Mayors, when Alderman Meeks in-
sisted that the leasing of the wharves should be
pro rata. Then there was a row, but the Alderman
eventually carried his point; so Captain Brynes is
happy even paying £BOO tor a 45ft. water-frontage.
How much happier, then, must the Newcastle S.S. Co.
be, in only disgorging £1,400 annually for a wharf
with 300 ft. fa£ade. There will be some gay old times
during the year’s reign of the C'M.G. We will content
ourselves with saying this. It is not the " dart ”of
this journal to say anything unpleasant.
MELBOURNE JINKS.
(BY SHAN[?]HA[?].)
Fits of morality are at all times spasmodic.
Macauloy says that the British public is overcome by
them every seven years. But we can boast a greater
immunity from their presence, doubtless owing to the
relaxing character of our climate, which renders lapses
into sin more easy and less irritating than does the
nerve-bracing atmosphere of the old country. Yet,
when a fit does come on here, in this sweet capital of
Victoria Infelix, it assumes huge proportions for the
time being. The Age, so late as last week, was seized
with a very portentous one. It gushed forth in its
leading columns with an article on Pasnographic
Journalism. The former word is high-sounding, and
decidedly “ Greecy,” but whether its use in reference to
that which delights the hearts of our fair ones, is com-
plimentary to our general morality, or specially
applicable to “ our sisters, our cousins, and our aunts,”
is a debateable question. At any rate, dear Mother
Age is perplexed, and not a little surprised, that any
paper should dare to tread on the ground she has made
classic by wholesale tirades of abuse showered on all
non-worshippers of her and her ideas. But the old lady
is not the only disseminater of abuse —her bigger sister,
Ye Argus, being handy at the same game ; however
the latter does do the thing genteely, and freely uses
gloves and eye glasses during the operation.
There is an individual here who hails from the
land of Queen, where he is prominent as a seller of
stations and stock. He is in some ways a man out of
the common nick. For instance, he stands over six
feet, and wears a black beard and nicely-fitting clothes,
and always carries gloves. But where he shines right
out is when he shepherds through the Exhibition
young carriage ladies, by which I wish you to under-
stand young women who ride in carriages and 101 l
about as if luxury was natural to them, forgetting the
days when boots and socks were Sunday treats. 'Yet
our friend of the northern country only does after his
kind. He would not be a loyal member of Melbourne’s
Swell Club it he failed to bow down and worship
“ Sugar.” It is by such ladders his kind creep up the
social scale, and become one of the great Things.
There has been weeping and wailing and gnash-
ing of teeth in our bookmaker tribe. A chip of some
doubtless respectable block in the old country has run a
mucker, much to the disgust of the knowing ones. He
was so innocent of appearance, so youthful- of counten-
ance, and so free of manner that he eaptivatingly gulled
the metalicians into good sound bets by producing a
telegram purporting to come from a wealthy relative in
India promising a remittance of some thousands. On
the strength of this document the guileless youth
plunged heavily on the Geelong races, but alas ! plunged
unluckily—hence his sudden departure from the scene
of his operations, and the wild execrations and mourn-
ing of those who can win with infinite more ease than
lose.
Ab parsonic editors are more the fashion in your
city than in this —where we keep them at the editorial
desks of their respective creedish periodicals—it will
not ceme amiss if I were to tell you how it came about
that parsons were found not to be the best species
whence to secure editors. Once upon a time —that is,
fifteen years ago—the Argus experimented in the par-
sonic line. They had had such a dose of independently
minded and intellectual men in Higinbotham (now Mr.
Justice), Watts (now editor of one of the leading Lon-
don journals), and Windsor (the present editor and
brilliant leader-writer of the Age), that they thought a
prosaic change would be beneficial, and they engaged
the Bev. Mr. Jarrett—a man of decidedly orthodox
principles and equally narrow-minded ideas. He reigned
in the place of his superiors with all the pomposity and
solidity due to his cloth. So far so good—but, fired by
an overpowering zeal, he one night rashly requested
that the word Bible, appearing in a leader, should be
printed in red-ink. This was too much even for the
publisher, who is a notoriously modest man. “ He may
be !” This craving [for bright colours brought
about the beginning of the end, and the zealous, though
indiscreet parson, was relegated to more congenial
quarters. This is how we cannot point with pride to
our broadsheets being ruled by “retired" ecclesiastics.
And while on parsons, I would just remark that
while the Presbyterian world of Victoria has lost a
zealous champion in Dr. Cairns, the colony can well
spare one of his way of thinking. For, with all his good
points, there is no denying that the reverend gentleman
was narrow-minded to a deplorable extent. He it was
who was always the head and front of all social ad-
vancement. He opposed, and with a power which
made him a dangerous opponent, any liberty of action
or speech or thought which did not consort with his
his idea of what was right or wrong. The world is
better without such men, who are often at the bottom
of religious intolleranee and bigotry, and of social dis-
cord. But peace to his ashes, for he acted conscien-
tiously according to his light and was an honest man.
What promised to be a serious affair of honour
has ended in smoke, and chiefly, I believe, because
there was no woman in it. I don’t say this in any un-
kindly spirit, for I admire the sex—but simply because
it is the truth : and the truth I speak, impugn it whoso
list. Briefly put, a Crown Minister of one of the other
colonies grossly insulted a member of the legal profes-
sion here. The latter, under the excitement of the
moment, and the company he was in, deter-
mined to wipe out the stain cast upon his honour. He
therefore sought the services of a portly friend, as
challenger, &c., but this party being sceptical as to
probable results, declined the favour offered him. So
the man of law and devices lit his pipe and bethought
him of another and more obliging friend, and forthwith
that friend was retained to carry out to a fatal consum-
mation the deed of blood. “ B-lood, sir I” was the cry
of ye legal hero, and both principal and second ad-
journed to the hotel at which the man of insult was
supposed to be residing. Arrived there, the obliging
friend (having brought himself up to concert pitch by
the internal application of alcohol, to which he also
treated his pugnacious principal), with a portentous
swagger, requested an interview with the Minister; but
greatly to his relief and that of his egging but retiring
friend, the victim was found not to be in that precise
spot. Thereupon the soul stirred by wrath and revenge
beat a retreat homewards, having satisfied his honour
by approaching so near death as to have sought the
lion in his den—to say nothing of the liquor consumed
on the occasion.
The Exhibition is a grand place wherein to study
character or the want of it, just as one happens to be
inclined. I always keep my eyes open there, for you
have something worth looking at, and there is a deal of
“ beer and skittles ” on the cards, too. As a matter of
course, such an abiding attraction as an Exhibition
must have its special attractions per se, and ours has
one or two necessarily. One of these is the Waltham
Watch Company—or, rather, I should say, that those
sitting inside the Waltham rails are the observed of all
observers, and they just can observe others, too—a few.
These few can see the wandering dark eyes of one who
was once a brilliant ’Frisco financier. He sits peace-
fully contemplating and gathers around him a galaxy
of beauty which is quite a feature in itself. In this he
is ably seconded by the curator of the watches aforesaid
and a few professionals ot the musical type. In fact, if
you have any citizens coming over this way, you cannot
do better than advise them to seek our swarthy friend.
He is a catalogue in himself, and knows the names,
history, and probable destiny of every likely one who
saunters down the main aisle, and rests his or her
weary limbs under the dome.
Besides this Exhibition gem, there is a police
inspector, wha, though hoary with age, is nevertheless
full of animation, and has an eye for the female form
divine —as is evidenced by the way ho casts optics
around him when petticoats are approaching. Then
there is another feature at the Big Snow. He has cer-
tainly a more wily and patient manner of moving, but
that may be owing to gout. He knows all that is worth
knowing of the female element, and he knows that he
knows it, too. Then, again, there are some “ furriners”
who move about and ogle, but their style is a little too
patent—that is to say, apt to lead them into trouble,
into which they will get, if I am not muchly mistaken.
It don’t do to fancy yourself irresistible because you
have a painted upper lip appendage and black eyes, nor
yet because you can warble “ a few ” and can look a
woman through. These are good qualifications in their
way, but dangerous in mixed company where are big
brothers and jealous husbands.
It is surprising how true is the old saying—
“ What’s in the blood must come out.” We have a
knight here who years ago made a name for himself as a
captivator of woman’s hearts and bodies whether they
were fettered by the bonds of matrimony or otherwise,
and he is still, in an advanced and fatherly age, the same
gallant; in fact, it is qnite a treat to watch him
promenading a young daughter of the house of Israel
about the quieter portions of the show. The eloquence
which ho manages to draw out from the dark orbs of
the Jewish maiden whom he affects is worthy of his
high name as a “killer,” and then the studied polite-
ness with which he stoops when she opens her ruby
Albert pouting lips is refreshing in the extreme. Ah !
Mr. Editor, there is no mistake about it, the bucks of
the olden time were far before us in style and manner.
They won their spurs by delicate attentions, whereas
these of the present day endeavour to win woman’s
sweetest gifts by a boorish and bullying manner. Is it
not so?
David Gaunson is at all times a puzzle. In life
social, as in life political, he is a wandering star, but
not of the first magnitude. One day he he fraternises
with Service, then with Berry, then with Ned Kelly,
then with Bolton, an M.P., under the O’Shan-Assian
rule. Where will he stop ?
There are wheels within wheels, and on this
principle only can the sudden and extraordinary change
of the Argus in respect to our Minister of Bailways,
Mr. J. B. Patterson, be accounted for. Only a short
space ago, he was everything evil—a cattle duffer, a
vagabond, &c. Now he is in favor at the head quarters
of that sublimely pure and independent journal that
only worships one god. Money, to which it prostitutes
itself, in a way Edward Wilson would not have done.
But to my tale the change has been brought about most
simply—just through the fact that a sister of one of the
prominent members of tie Thunderer’s staff has been
recently promoted to a leading position in the depart-
ment over which the Hon. J. B. P. has control. J. B.
ain’t a fool. He knows that a bait is tempting even if
you derive your descent from the most ancient of the
Howards.
THE TIGHT LITTLE ISLAND.
Picnicing and dancing are breaking out like an
epidemic.
Naval officers are wearing out their old gloves
in Hobart.
There is discord in the Orpheus Glee Club, after
four years of harmony.
The Lord Mayor of Hobart played the truant
from Sunday School to go to the spread.
A lady brewer in Hobart, at her “ at homes,”
degales her guests, both ladies and gentlemen, on XXX
and home-made lemonade.
Colonel Angelo is not a favourite with the Local
Forces. .He is too fond of theoretical drill: that is to
say, he likes the sound of his own voice.
Miss Lefroy and Capt. Hussey (A.D.C.) waltz
beautifully under the tuition of two young Tasmanian
ladies (Misses Smith, daughters of Sir Francis Smith.
Naval officers are the rage now with the ton;
and the blue-jackets are causing quite aflutter amongst
the “ slaveys.” Miserable civilians are out in the cold.
After the opening of the E. C. Cathedral, on
Sunday, the reverend Fathers and the city fathers
adjourned to lunch, and called each other “ jolly good
fellows ” with great gusto.
After drill, officers of the Eoyal—we mean “ Tas-
manian Artillery” adjourn to the bar of the nearest
hotel, to clank their swords and talk “military.” Their
“ gorgeousness ” is really overwhelming.
Schott, E.A.M., or the “ Herr,” as one or two
like to call him, is very wroth about “ not being even
invited to have a biscuit and a glass of cold water ” at
the opening ceremony at St. Mary’s Cathedral. Fact
is, the service was rather later than he thought,
and his “ Sunday dinner ” was cold when he arrived
home.
Dr. Agnew draws JG4200 per annum in divi-
dends from the Mount Bischoff Tin Mine, the
keeper of a small draper’s shop in Hobart, £2000; the
Bishop of Tasmania £l2OO. The Bev. J. A. Fawns
(rather an eccentric individual) bought a quantity of
shares a few months since, in order to be spoken of as
the largest shareholder; and he is, £5OOO a-year being
the amount he takes in dividends.
A certain lady, who used to reside in Hobart,
and was a distinguished member of the Tasmanian
“ aristocracy,” has a cousin whose husband keeps a pub.
in Melbourne. When the cousin was on a visit here
someiyears.ago, she was persuaded not to “ let on ” for
worlds that her husband was in the objectionable busi-
ness. She held her peace. When coming one day from
out of a fashionable gathering, she was pointed out to the
daughter of the house, and a query pnt to her as to who
she was and all about her. The reply got from Mrs.
—'s second cousin was: “ I haven’t the least idea—
someone we met in Melbourne, I suppose. We are
likely to have a lot of them over this summer. They
do bore one so.” The ignored and the ignoring cousins
were heard calling each other by their Christian names
a few moments after.
The leading Hobart journal contains four pages.
On the average; one might divide the information
thus : —Two and a half pages, advertisements; two
columns, ketch and schooner intelligence; two ditto,
leading article; one quarter column, English and other
telegrams; three columns, information from other
papers, thanks to scissors and paste; three ditto, record
muffin and crumpet struggles; three ditto, rural news,
“ from our own clodhopper;” two or so ditto, local news,
embodying would-be terse hits against alderman
This or alderman That; and the remainder corres-
pondence (unless there is “great pressure on our
columns," &c.), complaining of drains, theincompetenoy
of the director of waterworks, state of the creeks, &c.
For this luxury, this out-put of the brains of the
brilliant staff of reporters collected together into a ra—
we mean valuable journal—Tasmanians have pay 3d,
per diem.
Mrs. Louisa Anne Meredith, an accomplished
Tasmanian lady, has written an excellent book for
children —“ Tasmanian Friends and Foes, Furred
Feathered and Finned.” The Athen.eum praises it,
and particularly mentions two stories in it. The first
concerns a kid and a lamb, which, being brought up
together as house pets, became inseparable, and so
continued until they were about fourteen months old.
The sheep was then taken away to be shorn, the goat
being much disturbed during the absence of her friend.
When the sheep returned without his coat the goat
turned on him furiously, “ butted him off as an
impertinent interloper, and still went on running
from place to place, seeking anxiously for her lost
sheep, ever and anon turning round to butt poor
Billy, who ran after her in, answer to the well
known call, only to meet the cruellest repulse and
insult. Nor could all our endeavours effect a recon-
ciliation. The Billy of Nanny’s affection was gone—
lost to her for ever with his woolly coat; and she evi-
dently believed that the shorn sheep, so patiently
trotting after her, was a total stranger.”
After a fortnight spent in this way, the goat refusing to
recognize her old companion, and pining because of her
supposed loss, the sheep was still so miserable that he
was sent away to find companions of his own kind,
Mrs. Meredith adds that the goat was never puzzled by
any alterations, however great, in the clothing of her
human friends. The second story relates how a pair of
carriage horses, noted during many years for their
mutual affection, one day suddenly quarrelled for no as-
signable cause, and, after fighting viciously with heels
and teeth, separated; nor did they ever renew their old
kindly relations.
The “Bulletin’s” Dart against South Sea
Slavery.
“ E.T.,” master of the John Williams, who has been
25 years a cruiser and trader in the South Seas, writes
thus:—
" I have been reading your letter from Limbo with
regard €o the South Sea Island difficulties.
“ There are words kn that communication which
should be printed in letters of gold.
'• ‘Nitmar’ has struck a trail that will lead him on to
victory.
“ Your article is the first lucid and powerful
exposure of the South Sea Island iniquities.
“ True it is, if The Bulletin thus continues, it will
be the redemption of man.”
Go, little scribe.
And hide thy head !
Must thou deride
The mighty dead ?
Must thou be brave.
And, with thy sting,
Perch on a grave,
Thou puny thing ?
Out, inky fool!
Why play the ghoul
When living men
Demand thy pen ?
The plagiarist
Doth hold the reins,
And profits twist
From others’ brains.
Dull bards the bays
Essay to wrench
By dreary lays
Filched from the French!
With fierceness slate)
Each scrawling knave—
Not desecrate
A master’s grave)!
THE GLORIOUS CRUISE OF THE EMERALD.
Her Majesty’s ship Emerald
Has proved herself a gem ;
Her captain—Maxwell he is called—
Deserves a diadem !
In all the histories of a war,
Nona’s cut a brighter figure :
He’s been away a month or more,
And captured—one small nigger !
At Baranago, the brave crew
Burnt many of the huts.
And bravely did the jackets blue
Devour cocoa-nuts;
And many a passing pig they slew,
While distant natives yelled.
They shot down flutt’ring fowls a few,
And fiercely turtles shelled.
At Coombakale fierce waxed the fray.
(Now, shuddering readers, mark!)’
Their landing was a grand array
Commanded by bold Clarke.
With fierce cries all the woods resound—
“ Death to these dogs inhuman !”
They stormed the village, and they found—
One solitary woman.
At Teste, the boats made for the land,
With guns and bay’nets glistening;
The niggers laughed upon the strand
Like sweet-hearts at a christening.
The Em’rald warriors stormed the beach
(We’re not imaginative)—
“ Kind friends once more unto the breach”
And—captured one small native.
And, so—the good ship Emerald,
Has proved herself a gem;
Her captain—Maxwell, he is called—
Deserves a diadem!
In all the histories of war,
None’s cut a brighter figure:—
He’s been away a month or more.
And captured —one stnall nigger.
V.


Public Companies
10MMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OP
' SYDNEY.
Established 1834.
Incorporated by Act of Council, 1848.
Capital, £575,000. Reserve Fund, £580,000.
Directors :
Richard Jones, Esq., Chairman; Walter Lamb, Esq.,
Deputy-Chairman; Hon. John Frazer, M.L.C.; E.
Knox, Esq.; Hon. L. W. Levy, M.L.C.
T. A. Dibbs, Esq., Manager.
Auditors *
C. T. Gedye, Esq.; J. E. Street, Esq.
Solicitors :
Messrs. Want, Johnson and Want.
Messrs. Cape and Westgarth.
Head Office —Qeorge-street, Sydney
T. A. Dibbs, Manager; F. N. Burt, Accountant ; T. B.
Gaden, Branch Inspector; G. H. Green,Assistant
Branch Inspector.
With Branches at Haymarket, George-street South, and
Oxford-street.
London Office—39 Lombard-street, E.C.
Directors: J. A. Youl, Esq., C.M.G.; F. H. Dangar,
Esq.; F. H. Hogg, Esq.
Manager: Nathaniel Cork, Esq.
Branches in New South Wales. —Adelong, Albury,
Ar mi dale, Barraba, Bathurst, Bega, Berrima, Bingera,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Brewarrina, Camden,
Campbelltown, Cannonbar, Carcoar, Casino, Chatsworth
Cobar, Coolah, Cooma, Coraki, Coonamble, Cootamun-
drn, Cudal, Dubbo, Dungog, Forbes, Germanton, Glen
Innes, Goulbum, Grafton, Gundagai, Gunnedah, Gun-
ning, Inverell, Kempsey, Kiama, Lismore, Lithgow,
Maitland, Merriwa, Milton, Molong, Morpeth, Mudgee,
Murrurundi, Murwillumbah (Tweed River), Mnswell-
brook, Narrabri, Newcastle, Narandera, Orange, Parkes,
Parramatta, Penrith, Picton, Queanbeyan, Qnirindi,
Richmond, Shoalhaven, Singleton, Tamworth, Taree,
Tumbarumba, Wagga Wagga, Walcha, Walgett, Wal-
lerawang, Warren, Wellington, Wentworth, Wileannia,
Windsor, Wingham, Wollongong, WoodVum, Yass,
Young. With the following
Branches in Queensland .- Brisbane. Dalby, Mackay,
Maryborough, and Rockhampton.
Agencies in the Colonies.
Victoria: The Bank of Victoria, National Bank of
Australasia, Colonial Bank of Australasia, and
Commercial Bank of Australia.
South Australia : The Bank of bouth Australia, the
National Bank of Australasia, and the Bank of
Adelaide.
West Australia : National Bank of Australasia.
Tasmania : The Bank of Van Dieman’s Land.
New Zealand : National Bank of New Zealand.
Agencies betond the Colonies.
London : The London and Westminster Bank, and the
London and County Bank,
Liverpool: The Liverpool Union Bank,
Manchester : The Manchester and Salford Bank.
Ireland: The Belfast Banking Company and the
National Bank.
Scotland : The Commercial Bank of Scotland.
San Francisco : The Bank of British Columbia, and
Messrs. Macondray and Co.
Valparaiso : Banco Nacionale de Chile.
New York : Messrs. Drexel, Morgan and Co.
India, China and Singapore : The Chartered Bank of
India, Australia, and China; and the Chartered
Mercantile Bank of India, London, and China.
Ceylon : The Chartered Mercantile Bank of India,
London, and China.
Batavia : The Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and
China.
Mauritius : Messrs. Scott and Co.
Honolulu .- Messrs. Bishop and Co.
Egypt : Credit Lyonnais.
The Bank discounts bills, grants cash credits, makes
advances on approved security, allows interest upon
fixed deposits, negotiates produce bills and documents,
issues drafts or letters of credit, and negotiates or col-
lects bills payable at any of the abovenamed places or
elsewhere, at current rates; collects dividends on shares
in public companies, and interest on debentures; acts
for its customers in Hie investment of money in securi-
ties in Great Britain or in the colonies ; and is prepared
to undertake the agency of Banks on such terms as may
be mutually agreed upon.
IHE MUTUAL ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF
VICTORIA (LIMITED).
Established a.d. 1870.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH,
9 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
Directors:
John Kee,p Esq., Chairman.
Ebenezer Vickery, 1 sq
Andrew Drysdale, Esq.
This Society is established for Life Assurance and the
granting of Annuities and Endowments upon principles
STRICTLY MUTUAL, awarding to each assurer his
proportionate amount of the entire PROFITS of the
Society at every distribution thereof.
\ ‘
LOANS granted on Mortgage or on Personal Security
combined with Life Assurance.
WM. MASSON
Resident Secretary.
T
HE INTERCOLONIAL LIFE AND FIRE
ASSOCIATION, LIMITED.
HEAD
OFFICES: 263 (late 247), GEORGE-
STREET.
Capital, £lOO,OOO, Subscribed, £44,049.
Directors:
Sir P. A. Jennings, K.C.M G., M.P., President,
Mr. Alderman John Young, J.P., Vice-President,
T. M. Slattery, Esq., M.P. I Hon. P. Higgins.
T. J Chapman, Esq., J.P. | E. J. Rubie, Esq.
T. R. Smith, Esq , M.P.
LIFE DEPARTMENT. —No entrance or medical fees
•r other expenses; premiums received yearly, half-
yearly, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
FIRE DEPARTMEN I’.—Fire risks are taken on all
kinds of insurable property.
PREMIUMS ON BOTH FIRE AND LIFE AS LOW
AS ANY Office in tbe Colony, and POLICY-HOLDERS
participate in the profit.
JAMES S. BRAY.
Secretary.
FDUSTRIAL & PROVIDENT PERMANENT
BENEFIT BUILDING AND INVESTMENT
SOCIETY.
The cheapest for Borrowers and the most profitable
for Investors. Eight per cent, less profit charged to
borrowers. Eight per cent, and profits allowed to
investors. The highest current rate of Interest allowed
on Deposits. Prospectus and all information at the
offices, 171 York-street.
WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
E
XCELSIOR LAND INVESTMENT AND
BUILDING COMPANY & BANK (LIMITED).
The above Company Sells Land and Builds Houses,
Villas, Cottages, and on their Estate at Elswick, Peter-
sham, a few minutes walk from the station- on the
following liberal terms—viz.,
£2OO House, £2O Cash; Balance, 365. per Month.
£4OO do. £4O do. do. 725. do.
£BOO do. £BO do. do. 1465. do.
All information at the Company’s Offices, 171 York-
-troet. • WILLIAM JARRETT,
Manager.
Atlas foundry and engineering
COMPANY, Hay-street, Sydney, Engineers, Boiler
makers, and Shipbuilders, Iron and Brass Founders,
Coppersmiths and Millwrights.—The above firm are
prepared to undertake contracts for the manufacture of
Marina and Stationary Engines, Boilers, Girder work.
Quartz-crushing, Saw-mill, Sheepwashing, Mining,
Sugar Mills, and all other descriptions of machinery
with latest improvements.
N.B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for old metal*
Public Companies
The mercantile bank of Sydney.
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PAEIIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Eeserve Fund..,. £110,000
DIEECTOES:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caircf, Esq.
Hon. Saul Samuel, C.M.G,
Hon. Wb. Busby, M.L.C.
AUDITORS:
Phillip Gidley King, Esq,
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
MANAGEE:
F. A A. Wilson.
SECEETAET:
Hector Allen,
Southern Branch, 587, George-street.
LONDON BANKEES :
The National Provincial Bank of England.
Loudon Office, 30, Great St. Helens.
Director —Edward Chapman, Esq,
Agent—G. H. Alexander, Esq.
This Bank transacts all usual Banking and Financial
Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against wool and
other produce shipped to England for sale.
IOENWALL FIRE AND MARINE INSUR-
' ANCE COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £100,000.
EESEEVE FUND ... £80,000.
Fire and Marine Eisks accepted by
G. A. L L O Y D AND CO.,
Agents,
348 GEOEGE-STEEET,
SIDNEY.
The national mutual fire
ASSOCIATION OP AUSTEALASIA (Limited).
Established 1869.
The only Life Office in the Australian colonies which
has been conducted on PUEELY MUTUAL PEIN-
CIPLES from its foundation.
New South Wales Branch: 77 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Directors :
Edward Chisholm, Esq. (Brown and Co.), Chairman.
D. G. E. Alsop, Esq. (Harbottle, Biddulph, and Alsop).
Albert A. Smith, Esq.
The whole of the profits made by the Association
belongs to the policyholders, and is divided among them
every THEEE YEAES. The bonuses declared have
been exceptionally large.
Loans granted on mortgage and on Personal security
combined with Life Assurance.
HENEY F. FEANCIS, Resident Secretary.
A.
G. CHUECHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
Opposite the Markets.
IMPORTER AND MANUFACTUEEE OP
Coffee, Peppers, Spices, at
CLEVELAND MILLS, SUEEY HILLS.
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN TOWN
for Liverpool and Black Horse Brand Salt.
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hand. Is 6d per lb.
680,000 AMERICAN SEE WEES,
Just arrived, all sizes.
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLANDT, and CO,
Pork Sausage skins, splendid sample, by Australia,
1s 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb, from Factory at
Canterbury.
w
H. A R I E
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT,
343 and 345 Kent-strekt, near King-street.
L L,
SOLE AGENT for the undermentioned:—
E. Whittingham & Co.’s London Provisions
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oatmeal and Groats
Swallow & Ariell’s Victoria Biscuits, Treacle and
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toiletand Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Gouibum Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near King-street.
WEDDING PRESENTS, BIRTHDAY GIFTS, BRIDAL TROUSEAUX—
The most Fashionable and Stylish class of Goods in the City of Sydney.
Peapes and Shaw are now making a Grand Display of
NOVELTIES for PRESENTATION, SUITABLE to the SEASON, as follows
THE USEFUL
AND
THE BEAUTIFUL
NOVELTIES
IN
REAL AND IMITATION
LACE GOODS.
PAT A VISIT
OP
INSPECTION TO
PEAPES AND SHAW.
REAL SEALSKIN
AND
PLUSH BAGS AND
PURSES.
LADIES’
SILVER
AND JET
BRACELETS
MOROCCO BAGS
WOODWORK BOXES
SPRING BOOK SLIDES
RUSSIA LEATHER BAGS
BEAUTIFUL CARD CAgES
NE PLUS LEATHER DESKS
ASSORTED SCENT CASKETS
ROYAL CABINETS OF GAMES
PERSIAN FITTED WORK CASKET
SILVER BROOCHES AND EARRINGS
SILVER MOUNTED DRESSING CASES
GOLD WALL AND CORNER BRACKETS
POCKET MIRRORS AND TOILET GLASSES
LADIES’ FANS FOB DRESS OR PROMENADE
SILVER THIMBLES AND DRESS HOLDERS
NEW GLOVE & HANDKERCHIEF BOXES
CRIBBAGE BOARDS AND ROULETTES
LADIES’ Fitted TRAVELLING BAGS
BOUDOIR TIDIES—A “NOVELTY”
COMBINATION JEWEL CASES
DRAWING-ROOM INK TRAYS
CARVED WOOD BRACKETS
COMPENDIUM OP GAMES
FRENCH STATUETTES
MUSICAL BOXES
PHOTO. ALBUMS
POCKET BOOKS
LETTERCASES
NECKLETS
PURSES
&c. &c.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CELEBRATED
“FLORA” KID GLOVES
Six Pairs for 18/6,
in elegantly scented sachet.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
COSTUMES
Are celebrated throughout
the colonies.
PEAPES AND SHAW’S
CHARMING
MILLINERY
CANNOT be EXCELLED
ANYWHERE.
Uo you want to MAKE A PRESENT to a Lady or a Gentleman ?
If you do, PAY A VISIT TO
PEAPES AND SHAW, GEORGE STREET.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.'S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
- Jb
CGU7*
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
BON ACCORD WORKS,
B
U 8 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTORY :
BON ACCORD WORKS,
8 MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
This is the most effective substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, &c. • is
simple, clean, and durable, and can he made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety. This Gas is much clearer
and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is free from all smell and smoke. The expense is
entirely confined to the quantity of tallow used and the wood for furnace. Seven pounds of tallow will make 100
cubic feet of gas.
For full particulars, apply at the Manufactory. We undertake to make gas and instruct some one in the
process as part of our contract.
A. A. M. & Co. also beg to call attention to their PATENT WINDOW FASTENER, which is the only safe
and effectual look. It prevents all rattling. It fastens the window at any height, and can he used with or
without cords. This Fastener was awarded FIRST PRIZE Special at the International Exhibition, Sydney,
1879-80. * 9
/M
i
A
N
m
m
w
i BB Tut A 111 IH THE WORLD
W. DAVIES i Cf GO viburnum
ACKNOWLEDGES
6 it
■ MT
WORLD
MAMUfA STURBD
BY
T
HE BEST FAINT IN THE WORLD
V
A
ECOttOM'CAL
©
THE PACIFIC RUBBER PAINT
is mixed ready for use,
supplied in cans containing 1 gal., i gal., and J gal.
These cans form a convenient Paint Pot with handle
complete.
Similar testimony to the following constantly reaches
as: —“Woollahra, August 20th, 1880,-1 have found the
RUBBER PAINT to be all that is said of it, Durable
and Bright, and owing to its large covering properties
I am inclined to think it is cheaper than ordinary paint.
My own house was painted with it about 15_ months ago
and appeal's as fresh, clean and glossy as if it were done
last week —the same with the fences,"
ONE GALLON OF PACIFIC EUBBER PAINT
will cover 35 Square Yards—one coat; 25 sq. yds, two
coats ; 18 sq. yards, three coats.
Sample Cards of Colours and Price Lists free on
application. Packages of any size required are
forwarded daily free of charge to all parts of the city
and suburbs.
BUZACOTT and ARMSTRONG,
Sole Agents,
foot of MARKET STREET, near Pyrmont Bridge.
JJU UE.PHY AND SO N,
IMPORTERS OP
GLASS (all sizes cut White and Bed Lead
to order) Turpentine ' S l ' <:
Plate Raw and Boiled Oils
Sheet Brushware
Stained Kerosene Oil
Ornamental Colours for House and
Cathedral Coach painters, plas-
Hammered (flat and terers, &c.
lolled) | Varnishes
Paper-hangers’ Canvas,
(three qualities)
Gilt Moulding
Paperhangings
Gold and Silver Leaf
Wood-preserving Oil
Resin, Tar
Cement, &c., &c.
MIXED PAINT. READY FOR USE, ANT SHADE
REQUIRED.
All orders promptly executed by Rail, Steamer, City or
Suburbs.
THE BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
29 and 31 GEORGE STREET WEST.
CL
A. SMITH,
88 KING STREET
(From Rotherham’s, London),
HAS ALWAYS ON HAND
a first-class assortment of
WATCHES AND JEWELLERY *
by the best LONDON and CONTINENTAL manufac-
turers.
All repairs done on the premises under G. A. S.’s
supervision.
N.B.—Branch also at 91 OXFORD STREET.
CLARKE AND CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
TEAMWAY TICKETS.
POSTAGE STAMPS.
(Opposite Court-house),
DAELINGHUEST.
IHE GREAT PROMENADE FOR LADIES
KIN G-STEEET.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Prints at 3|d per yard.
See the Bon Marche Pompadour Costumes at 4s lid
each.
See the Bon Wool Beiges at 5Jd, 7Jd, 9}d per
yard.
See the Bon Marche New Linen Costume Cloth at 7Jd
per yard.
See all the Beautiful goods we are showing this season
at London Prices.
See samples of all the newest, most fashionable, a
seasonable goods in our windows —
LEADER AND STARK,
96 KING STREET.


Easiness Annoau
W. H - p A
PIANOFORTE WAR
352 George-strei
PIANOFORTES. PIA
JUST RECEIVED. JUS'
from the
BEST FACTORIES of EUROPI
A splendid stock to sel
EVERT RENOWNED
AMERICAN ORC
By the celebrated
W. BELL, AN
Which gained first and si
OVER ALL OTH
at the
LATE SYDNEY INTERN ATIOI
HARMONIUI
BY
ALEXANDRE and other RENO
in all the various n
A FEW GOOD SECOND-B
at low prices, now ir
W. H. PALING, agent for Erard’
Soufleto’s, Kirkman’s, and Hu
fortes.
W. Bell, k Co.’s, Horace Waters
and Warren’s, and Smith and i
B
352 GEORGE S’
Opposite Wynyard-
Sydney.
OYD’S SAN FRANCISCO 1
260 and 262 GEORGE-5
(over Peate and Hare
Now open to the Public. The hig
Photographs, Oil Paintings, C
Crayon Water Colours, urn
will be produce
The enlarging of Old and Fast-fa
Speciality.
Inspection of the public respe
F.AIAEJM
Tobacconist
JAMES
CELEBRATE]
EXCELSIOR SMOKING
Cut Ruby, Bird’s Eye, Gold Lei
Best Imported Br
Havana and Manilla
Pipes Mounted and J
159 PITT ST
Next Post Offii
TIN TAG TOBi
None are genuine but the 1
stamped with the words
CONQUEEOE or YANK!
DIXSON & SO
155 YORK STREET
SMOKE
EUREKA CIGi
MILD, FRAGRANT, &
m
vs
Manufactured 1
T. S A Y W E
AT THE
EAGLE TOBACC
Clarence-street, S;
rji HO S. J. BO 1
ENGINEERS, BRASSF
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, S.
HOSE, &c.
IKON
TIN
BRASS
Chemists and Dr
WIMM
%mm
mmrnßm
mm ,
*
mm
J 3 UB L I C S
THE following Li
WATSON’S RENOWNED ]
MEDICINES
so well and favourably known to tl
Watson’s (Vegetable) Ant
Watson’s (Vegetable) Wo:
Watson’s Gingerbread We
Watson’s Compound Chlo
Watson’s Strengthening E
Watson’s Australian Vern
Watson’s Excelsior Tooth
Watson’s Concentrated G<
Elixir (a most valuab
can be obtained, wholesale and i
factory—
WATSON’S DRUG
581 GEORGE STR
POTHECAEII
14 OXFORD STR
♦
Near Hyde Pare i
(N.B. —The Tram-car sto]
W. D. EAMES, P
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLEI
GOVERNOR,
And one of the Founders of
Societies of Victoria and Ne 1
AR
apot
-ft
W. D. E. thanks the public am
for the support hitherto accorded 1
Chemists and Dr
T
A K E NO MO
but try
RANDEESON
PODOPHYLLIN LO
Do you SUFFER from HEA]
Then try
PODOPHYI
Do you Complain of Indigesti
Take a few doses oi
PODOPHYI
Do you Suffer from Giddiness
Spend one shilling, am
EANDEESf
Do you constantly suffer from
If so rememb
PODOPHY
will soon cure, if taken as
BEST ANTIBILIOUS MEDI
Are any'of your children sick
can safely give them one
for the small members 01
TAKE WE
•3* Remember this, and alway
Valuable Family Medicine by you.
Prepared only by the Pi
EDWARD ROY/ and
45 and 47 George-s
B
T ROYAL LETTE
The Greates
WONDER OF THI
JOSEPHSON'
AUSTRALIAN OIN 1 ]
Guaranteed to
Free from all poisonous qnaliti
of Vegetable Mattel
Being made from the Wild Plau
in the Bush of New Son
This Ointment is not a mere ca
public, nor does it require any pu
as it has been so well proved for tl
that it is impossible that the publ:
long deceived. In fact, people arc
lous regarding its efficacy (never 1 *
article of the kind before which
relief), that they really cannot beli
But one trial will convince the n
High and low, rich and poor, hav
fits from its use, and scarcely an
found without it; and
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
is now the household word of the c
The quick and instant relief from
and miraculous cures, are
THE WONDER OF T:
which, taken altogether, prove the.
to be the Eighth Wonder of the V
and tender eyes, stiffness of joints,
hands and lips, bunions, soft cor
casualties attending the human ft
all-healing properties of
JOSEPHSON’S AUSTRALIA
the
WONDER OF THE
Who would suffer from Sandy B
find immediate relief and be perfi
Josephson’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from External
may be cured by using Joseuhson
ment ?
Who would suffer from Soft Co
moved by applying constantly for
son’s Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Burns ai
can have immediate relief by ap
Australian Ointment ?
Who would suffer from Excoriaf
tion when a remedy like Jose;
Ointment can be obtained ?
Who would suffer from Piles v
Josephson’s Australian Ointment is
It stands unrivalled. The worn
effected, which is proved by the testi:
of undoubted respectability, and
communicated with, and the large
demand, prove it to be still pre-em
of the kind yet known. It is of a
the natural extracts of the plants fr
and totally free fr«m any and all
sonous properties.
ASK FOR JOSEPHSON’S A
OINTMENT,
which is guaranted to be what i
purely vegetable compound.
Sold by all chemists and storek
and Is 6d each throughout the colo
Wholesale by the proprietors—
EDWARD Ro‘
ENTRAL PH
78 (Late 84) KING ST
c


"gLADON’S HEALTH SALIN
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALES
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALIN
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALIN
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALIN
B
LADON’S HEALTH SALIN
B LADON’S HEALTH SALIN
A combination of Oxygenated !
juices of LEMONS, LIMES, and OI
Taken according to direction
BLADON’S HEALTH SALINE is a
rational remedy as a preventive or cr
«11 Functional Irregularities of the
ache. Lowness of Spirits, Habitual
purities of the Blood, Sea-Sick
Indigestion, the effects propuced b
dnlgence in rich food, or the a'
beverages ; Gout, Rheumatism, &c.;
ment of Fevers, Small Pox, Diphthei
Measles, Ague, and all epidemic, clii
diseases. It is especially serviceabb
and should entirely supersede the
aperients. Children take it with p
vigorating effect of an occasional dos
to successfully combat the insidious (
It effectually destroys the Poison G t
contracted in our daily walk throuf
alterative and enriching qualities it
the vital fluid to perform, in a health
functions in the wonderful economy
piece—Man. Remember this is
supplied by the Science of Chemis
form.
BLADON’S HEALTH S
may justly be termed a BLOOD DIS
PPROVED BY THE
Government
10th Ji
“ Sir,—In reply to your letter, I hi
that the parcel was received in got
reason of my not writing to you befo
of my wishing that the * Saline ’ shot
am now directed to inform you th
considers it MOST EFFICACIOUS.
“I also can vouch for the same, am
pleasant aperient.
“ I am, Sir,
“ Tours faithf
“ Resin alb
“Mr. W. G. Bladon,”
B
LADON’S HEALTh
The Australian Ohprohm
“ It is a
MOST REFRESHING EFFERYE
We can honestly recomn
as an
AUSTRALIAN MANUFA
climatically
SUPERIOR TO ANY FRU
in the market.”
Sole Proprietor, W. G. BLADON, 1
Saline Works.
Retail, in patent stoppered bottles
all chemists.
Wholesale—Messrs. Elliott Bros.,
Elliott Bros, and Co., Brisl ane.
Af'J Y
NjADE JO O
pi/\lN F\ICH| S]~0
WALTHAM, ENGLISH, AND GE!
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED
Turret Clocks—simple, striks
Spectacles, etc., of all
Plain figures—Low pi
SINGER’S SEWING IV
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT
WHOLESALE tf RETAIL IMPORTERS (f
ONE OF THE LARGEST BOOT ESTABLISH-
MENTS IN THE WORLD.
A Visit of Inspection Requested.
We axe in a positon to sell under all other Boot
Establishments in the colony.
Our Stock consists of Boots and Shoes of every
design and manufacture—best Colonial-made as
well as the choicest English and Foreign samples.
CO
CO
oc
CD
m
o
CO
Lki
oc
CO
OUR Cl
o
[ We
Only tho
CO!
Boys’ am
OurStocl
N
For eve:
Sa
New i
Gents’ S
own
7/6, wo:
Ourimi
chases er
undersell
establish
We abs
it would
copy, wil
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
OPPOSITE CENTRAL POLIC
NCE USED ALWAYS USED.
HUDSON'S EXTRACLfSOAP.
Trademark ‘'Arm and Dolly” on every packet, with-
out which none is genuine. Beware of imitations.
m
a LWay s
TRADE
MARK
SSI
The GRAND GOLD MEDAL, Paris.
HIGHEST MEDAL, Paris, 1878.
HIGHEST AWARD, Sydney, 1879.
LATHEES FREELY, SOFTENS WATER,
AND SHOULD ALWAYS BX USED
For Washing Clothes, Linen, Dirty Hands, &c.
For Scouring Floors, Greasy Woodwork, *c.
For Washing Glasses, Plates, Dishes, &c.
For Cleaning Paint, Marble Work, Plate, &c.
And for every purpose of washing and cleansing.
Sold retail in Jib packets by all grocers and General
storekeepers throughout Australia, or wholesale by
T. YIYIAN RAUCH,
16 CHARLOTTE PLACE,
Sydney, N.S.W.
E. KEEP & CO.,
37 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, Victoria,
E, D. NEILSON.
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
WHAT IS THE RESULT of importing our
own goods and paying cash fcr them ?
DOES IT NOT STAND to reason that we are thus
enabled to give our customers the best possible value ?
And WHERE ARE THOSE who will not take advan-
tage of the inducements offered ?
WE NOTIFIED that this would be a special month,
and we again issue a free invitation to all our friends
and customers to come and see the beautiful collection
which has just been brought forward. There are goods
of every class and description, selected with great care
by our London Agents, who have our interests
thoroughly at heart, and know exactly what is required.
FOR COLLECTION AND VARIETY, The Royal
Furnishing Arcade has long stood unrivalled, and, hav-
ing constantly brought before the public new goods of
a choicest and novel description, it has won for itself
a lasting reputation. PARTIES DESIROUSof securing
choice and beautiful goods should avail themselves of
the present opportunity.
Toilet Pairs, in new designs, various woods, single and
double —Wardrobes, plate-glass, ladies’ and gentle-
men’s, with all the latest conveniences—Bedsteads,
brass and enambled, brass mounted, black and gold,
also flowered, with thenew extending foot rail—Patent
Sanitory Spiral Spring or Elastic Woven Wire Mat-
tresses, recommended by all doctors —Toilet Sets,
single and double, in all the newest designs—New
American Furniture, in Walnut, complete Bedroom
Suites —Beautiful Inlaid Walnut Plate-glass Side-
boards —Whatnots, in all the newest shapes, plain and
fancy—Suites made to order from the choicest
materials—An extraordinary number of Pier Glasses
and Girandoles, in very pretty frames —Walnut Spiral
Leg Centre. Card, and Occasional Tables—Papier-
mach6 goods of every description—Ladies’ Musical
Companions—Ladies’ Workboxes, Victoria Desks, and
Jewel Caskets—Musical Boxes, all sizes, playing
j about oco hundred different airs, with and without
bells, sacred and secular music—Mounted Irediscents
! and Fish Globes—Tea, Coffee, and Breakfast Services
in new patterns—A splendid assortment of Marble
Clocks and Bronzes to match— Oil Paintings and Oleo-
graphs, many choice subjects to select from —Beauti-
ful Glass Centres and Suites of Ornaments, some of the
grandest ever imported—Ladies’ Combination Work
Tables—Bohemian Glassware, Jugs, and Goblets —
Flower Pots and Specimen Vases, Musical Albums and
Cigar Cases, Mirror Brackets, Inkstands, Paper
i Weights, Ac., &c.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS
(Late W. B. Campbell),
ROYAL FURNISHING \RCADE,
42G & 428 GEORGE STREET,
Next the Royal Hotel.
THE SHOW-ROOMS LOOK MAGNIFICENT,
Seperate tables being laid out with
1 SPEC I ALT TIES FOR THE CHRISTMAS SEASON.
SYDNEY’S CHEAPEST MARKET for good
Sterling, New, Fashionable, Reliable Drapery is in
King-street. ....
Ladies would do well, before purchasing elsewhere, to
look in at the BON MARCHE, and see the beautiful
MILLINEET BONNETS, from 12s 6d, MILLINERY
HATS from 4s lid, CHILDREN’S COSTUMES from
3a lid, Pure Silk Umbrellas from 4s 6d, Ladies Corsets
from Is lid, Ladies’ White Cotton Hose from 4-id per
pair, Ladies’ Scarves, Collars, Gloves, Fischus, Baby-
linen, Underclothing, &c., cheaper than any other
house outside the UNITE D KINGDOM.
DRESSMAKING.
Owing to the increasing popularity of this already
large department. Ladies are respectfully requested to
give ample time in placing their orders.
LEADER AND STARK,
£MJ KING STREET.
FUN AND FANCY.
Bee-ware of the honey pot.
Sleeping carriages—Snore’s arks.
Writs of attachment —Love-letters.
Best material for slippers —Banana skins.
It’s a poor grocer who can’t keep his sugar damp.
It doesn’t pay to give a <£5000 education to a <£o
boy.
The wishbone of the turkey is a sort of neck
romance, sir.
Solomon’s great judgement was a heir-splitting
affair after all.
A cat’s hardships and trials is a subject for an
awed to the mews of night.
“ I’ll soon have no hair to my crown,” said the
Prince of Wales the other day.
“ Oh he’s all right now. You know the doctor
doesn’t come.” Twiggez-vous !
Even the potatoe is dangerous in Ireland just
now. Doesn’t it shoot out on all sides.
An auctioneer knocks things down to the highest
bidder so that they may not have so far to fall.
When a dead man’s property is put under the
hammer it is a sale of effects; but when a man gets sea-
sick it is the effects of a sail.
When, in passing a country villa, the only thing
out of order is the front gate, it is evident that there is
a marriageable daughter in the house.
The moon shot down athwart the town —
Shot down with silver glow.
And at the gate I heard a voice :
“ Let's have some oysters, Joe.”
“ Beware of pickpockets,” was one of the de-
corations of the wall before the eyes of members of the
recent Pan-Presbyterian Council in Philadelphia.
Among the wedding presents received by a
Philadelphia bride was a note from her father’s counsel,
agreeing to conduct her divorce suit free of charge.
Salvini says he can never learn the English
language sufficiently well to speak it in his plays on the
stage. Jananschek thinks she can “ speek ze mos boote-
ful Ingleeeh.”
He from hlr tried to snatch a kiss,
But modest sense imbued her,
“ Away,” she cried, “ I’ll none of this I ”
But the villain still pursued her.
A Scotch lawyer is now Attorney-General of the
Sandwich Islands. If in two years he doesn’t own the
entire country and hold the king’s note for a large sum,
he is no credit to his German boarding-school.
A squaw has just died in the Indian Territory
who was supposed to be 114 years old. The cause of
her death is attributed to the immoderate use of
tobacco for ICO years, and a cold she contracted in 1830
It is no longer fashionable to have more than
two bridesmaids, and the very “ swell ” have none at
all, says a fashion authority. Alas! but how many
young ladies are thus forever deprived of wearing fluffy
white costumes in public.
The Grand Marah Jah of Calcutta
Got tipsy and fell in the gutta;
He was found by a lackey.
Who shouted “ Oh crackey!”
And toted him home on a shutta.
Believers in metempsychosis have had their faith
refreshed by the recent birth of a child who, upon com-
ing into the world, made a searching scrutiny of his
surroundings, and, sinking back in the nurse’s arms,
remarked: “ Thank heaven, at last I have got myself
bom into a family that is comfortably fixed!”
Guest to cashier of restaurant — “I say, here
you have charged me in my bill: One two-egg omelet,
•0 centimes,’ and again, ‘ Two boiled eggs, 75 centimes.’
Why is this thus P Wherefore the difference P" The
cashier (haughtily)—” You ought to know. Monsieur,
that in a first-class restaurant they never think of boil-
ing an egg unless it is perfectly fresh.”
A New York paper says that the recent inter-
national regatta on the Thames was an event of which
every American should feel proud. Our esteemed con-
temporary is correct. Nearly every professional oars-
man in the United States went over there, and as all
but Hanlan are broke and unable to return, the
prospects of the country were never brighter.
Dean Stanley was not equal to his opportunities
when he performed the marriage ceremony of Prof.
Tyndall. The Dean should have asked the groom:
•« Do yon take this anthropoid to be your co-ordinate,
to love with your nerve centres, to cherrish with your
whole cellular tissue, until a final molecular disturbance
shall resolve its organism into its primitive atoms ?”
“ Come,” said the Dey of Algiers to the Bey of
Tunis, "let us go up to Schindler’s and try a little
beer.” "Agreed,” was the reply. Schindler set up
two schooners, and they were disposed of, and the
Algerian ruler said, "That’s enough for one Dey."
« Eight,” replied the Tunisian ruler, " and I may add,
that’s the only schooner that will enter the Bey of
Tunis to-day.”
I wud not die in Ortum,
With bananas fit for eatin’.
When the wavy com is gettin’ ripe,
And the candidates are treatin’;
When sassige-meat is phryin’.
And marriages is thick.
Oh! who would think of dyin’,
Or even gettin’ sick ?
A young couple in their honeymoon are dallying
languidly with the grapes at dessert. She (archly)—
« And you don’t find it tiresome dear, all alone with me ?
You are quite, quite sure that you do not wish to go
back to your bachelor life again?” He (earnestly)—
« Quite, my darling: indeed married Ufa is so awfully
jolly, that, you know if you were to,die to-night I’d get
married again to-morrow.
The proof that petroleum sources are almost
world-wide seems to be abundant. In one of the Ionian
Islands there is a spring which has yielded petroleum
more than two thousand years. The wells of Armenia,
on the banks of the Zaro, were formerly used for light-
mg the ciy of Genoa. In Persia, too, near the Caspian
Sea at Baku, numerous springs of petroleum have been
known from the earliest times; and those of Rangoon,
on the Irawaddy, are said to have yielded, before the
general introduction of petroleum among civilized
nations, some 400,000 hogsheads of oil per annum.
He was a ragged orphan boy—
He did not own a cent —
But still, whene’er he tore his clothes,
He’d gather in his rent.
And when his rent was gathered in.
With all his might and main.
He’d go off on another tear,
And spend the 'hole again.
And when the hole is darned and patched.
Darned if the orphan cares ;
He runs among the tares and gets
Another patch of tears.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Proctor —.£6OOO.
Jenny Lind is now sixty years old.
Mr. Sinclair is again the Mayor of Brisbane.
General Dixon has a son an ordinary gunner in
the N.S.W. Artillery.
Mr. Thomas Wright, an artist well-known to
fame in Victoria, is dead.
Miss Braddon’s “ Just as I Am ” is an instance
of the sensational in literature carried to the verge of
true art.
Two dramatic pieces, written by Mr. William
Forster, our late Agent General, have been accepted by
the London stage,,and will be produced after the close
of the pantomime season.
In Dr. Schliemann’s new volume “Ilios,” is con-
centrated the record of a life which has itself centred
all the resources oi human activity in a single aim, held
from early life with a tenacity that was an assurance of
success.
Mr. James Blackwood, of the well-known Vic-
torian firm of Dalgety, Blackwood and Co., is dead. It
is only a few weeks’ back that a brother suddenly ex-
pired in London while visiting one of the Australian
steamers.
The following are the words of Milner Stephen’s
challenge to Dr. Gray, the ex-President of the Victorian
Medical Society:—“At the next gathering of the
afflicted poor, for the benefit of my ‘ imaginary ’ gift
of healing, I will select three cases, and place them be-
fore the audience. Dr. Gray shall then select nine of
his brethren to write diagnoses of the cases, not three
of which shall agree with his own. I will then blind-
fold a young girl, who shall forthwith diagnose each
case so correctly that I will instantly cure them, or
send them away relieved from all pain, unless, indeed,
they prefer submitting themselves to Dr. Gray’s treat-
ment for a season!” Dr. Gray has accepted the chal-
lenge, but is going to let Milner try his arts, not on
patients selected by himself, but on incurables from the
infirmaries.
A Parramatta J.P. is
about to be appointed a
P.M.
Mr. Sam. Evelyn, a
clerk in the Registar-
General’s office, has an
uncle just dead. £6OOO a
year.
Hon. James Balfour,
M.L.C. of Victoria, and one
of the ablest speakers in
the colony, is on a visit to
Sydney.
Baron Maclay has
brought down the mains of
na Irishman, a Malay, a
Chinaman, and an Aborigi-
nal from Queensland.
Mr. Justice Hargrave,
who has been ruralising at
Coal Cliff, entertained the
Clifton public school chil-
dren at a picnic, on Saturday
last.
Miss Mary Stuart,
daughter of the Hon. Alex-
ander Stuart, has written
an interesting letter from
Norfolk Island, descriptive
of the progress of the Mela-
nesian Mission there.
Mr. James Smith writes
in the current number of the
Victorian Review a very
interesting account of the
life of Bo off e, the veteran
French actor, still living, at
the ripe old age of 81.
It is now almost certain
that Lord Angustus Loftus
will be offered old Govern-
ment House, at Parramatta,
as a country seat. It only
depends upon the public
spirit of the trustees, and
liberality of Government.
The London Tele-
graph of December 29, con-
tains a highly eulogistic
article on Sir Hercules
Robinson, apropos of his
starting for the Cape. It
says he is the test Governor
.under the British Crown.
Sir P. A. Jena ings
the Hon. Processor Smith
M L.C., Mr. J. F. Barns,
M L A., Mr. R. Burdett
Smith, ML A, and Mr.
Barnett, our Colonial Archi-
tect, returned from Mel-
bourne on Tuesday morning.
All the London papers
praised Mr. Graham Berry
and his Ministry for their
determined stand against
the Kelly sympathisers.
The London Telegraph
says an American adminis-
tration would have given
way.
Lady Augustus Loftus
went to Parramatta races
very plainly attired. Since
then the demand for prints
and other cheap stuffs, has
been large. There is despair
in the hearts of local shop-
keepers. and intensified joy
in families.
Oar future King.—An English society paper
relates that Madame Adelina Patti sold her Welsh
Castle because the Prince of Wales bought a near
adjoining estate. If the latter is the case, possibly
Signor Nicolini was the moving spirit.
Mr. T. Boyd, sen , of Gilmore, Adelong district,
was one of the visitors to the Albury railway ceremonials.
An unusual amount of interest attaches to the history
of this gentleman. He is 83 years of age, and is the
oldest surviving member of the gallant Hume and
Hovell band of explorers, who years ago traversed a
then unknown wilderness, infested by hostile tribes of
aborigines, and finally found their way to the spot
where the proud capital of the sister colony now
stands.
“ The Longevity of Editors ” is feeing discussed
in the Athenaeum. Mr. S. C. Hall (whose accomplished
and celebrated wife is just dead) edited a publication
for 42 years Robert Chambers wrote to say that his
uncle. Dr. William Chambers, has edited Chambers’
Journal for 49 years, and still conducts the magazine
with unabated energy; and Henry Davies writes that
he still conducts the Cheltenham Looker On, which
he started in 1833. The thing is reversed in Australia.
Pour Editors have run 48 papers in less than that time.
Por instance, there is—but it wouldn’t be fair.
Dr. Salvator Vinci, of Catania, announces to
scientific societies, by “ proclamation," that a great
revolution in the physical sciences is at hand, and that
he has discovered, and will demonstrate ere long by in-
and invincible proofs, that the essence of
jjCat, of light, of electricity, of magnetism, and of life,
ig—oxygen.
• Ti 1610 are 80me l aws afflicting man which only
n, E> to t * le application of cold steel. This from one of
ne English papers:—“John Jennings, of Laragan (Mr.
Anthony Ormsby’s estate. County Mayo), was fined £3
r getting married without the landlord’s sanction.”
J-ms ig human slavery outright—and within a stone’s
tnrow a most of the throne of human freedom !
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Bishop of Grafton is a member of the
English Church Union.
It is not the general custom for sermons to be
preached in the Greek Church.
The Bishop of Sydney is fast recovering his
health. He goes no Germany shortly.
Fourteen female missionaries from the American
Female Mission Home, have gone to Utah, to reform
the Mormons.
The Rev. F. B. Boyce, the energetic clergyman
of Orange, gets a purse of sovs. before leaving for Eng-
land. Subscriptions, general.
Bishop Short, according to a Port Adelaide
piper, is compelled to resign his see through illness
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, is expected' to be his
successor.
The successor of Dr. Barker, Metropolitan
Bishop of Australia, will receive a salary of £ISX) a year
for the first five years, and £2OO a year after wards—from
Glebe funds.
No soul was ever lost because its fresh begin-
nings broke down; but thousands of souls have been
lost because they would not make fresh beginnings
F. W. Faber.
Mr. M‘Arthur, the Lord Mayor of London is
the first Wesleyan to hold that office. It is notable
that the Wesleyans will hold a sort of (Ecumenical
Council in England this year.
A “Life of Dr. Tyrrel,” thirty-one years
Bishop of Newcastle, New South Wales, by Mr. R G
Boodle. M.A., is announced to be published in England
by Wells, Gardiner, Darton, & Co.
A sympathy with that which is pure implies a
repulsion of that which is impure. Hatred of evil is in
proportion to the strength of love for good. To love
good intensely is to hate evil intensely.—P. W. Robert-
son.
The Rev. Parry, who is a prominent missionary
of the Solomon Islands, on his way to England
preached recently at Melbourne upon the miracle of
the Church in the World. Mr. Parry has been lately
amongst the natives who committed the recent mur-
ders, and on one occasion is said to have stood with a
revolver and counselled resistance when his islanders
were in danger of attack.
We may deny Christ in our actions and practice,
and then speak much louder than our tongues. To
have an orthodox belief and true confession, concurring
with a bad life, is only to deny Christ with a greater
solemnity.—South.
Prom New Zealand the following melancholy
circumstance The Kev. B. P. Blunt,'a Church Eng-
hjjjd minister at Chorlton, was sitting for a photograph.
When the artist replaced the cover on the camera, he
found the sitter had expired.
Another eminent Glasgow minister, the Rev Dr.
Roxburgh, of Free St. John’s Church, died on Novem-
ber Ist, at Westonsuper-Mare, aged 75. He was
ordained in 1831, “came out" at the Disruption, and
laboured for many years in Dundee before being trans-
lated to Glasgow.
Rev. J. R. Blomfield, of All Saints’, Parra-
matta, preached on Sunday last one of the most
eloquent and practical sermons that have been delivered
in Parramatta for some time. He was assisted at the
service of the Holy Communion by the Rev. G. P.
Macarthur, Principal of King’s School.
St. Mark’s Church, Darling Point, shows sub-
stantial progress, and if it were double the size the
Vicar could fill it. Last year £5OO was raised in pew
rents; £6OO in plate offerings, besides £2OO in special
collections. The sick and poor in the parish are
liberally provided for. How is this for High ?
The natives of New Guinea are, according to
M. D’Albertis, not good Christians “ The attendance
at church was small, and the congregation inattentive,
notwithstanding that all who stayed to the end of the
service were rewarded with a little sago.” He thinks
that greater things might be achieved by agricultural
and industrial missions.
Mr. Fronde, we learn, is about to publish his
“ Personal Reminiscences of the High Church Revival."
They are given in the form of letters to a friend, and
will first appear in Good Words, beginning in the
January number. The first letter deals with the Church
of England fifty years ago; subsequent ones with the
Tractarians, John Henry Newman, Tract XC. and its
consequences, the “ Lives of the Saints,” &c.
A member of the Manchester School Board, Mr.
Joseph Gillow, is (says the ATHEN.EUM)’engaged in the
production of an historical treatise on the Roman
Catholic colleges and schools of England, from the time
of Queen Ehzai etn to the restoration of the Roman
Catholic hierarchy in England in 1850. Mr. Gillow has
been able to obtain for his work information from
original sources at Ushaw and other well-known
Catholic seminaries in England,
The Presbyterian Evangelical Alliance in Phila-
delphia, says the Christian Union, illustrates the
fading out of denominational divisions. The change is
gradual, but it is very great, between the epoch of one
hundred years ago, when a Presbyterian Church, in
Scotland, excommunicated a stone-mason for laying up
the wall of an Epi copal Church, and that of the present
era, when Dr. Hitchcock, before a representative
gathering of Presbyterians of all classes ond from the
whole world, advocates the restoration of the “ Church
Year” and a partial use of liturgical services.
The Jewish Messenger has the following:
“It is no sign of culture to scoff at prayers and cere-
monies which were sacred to our fathers and mothers,
and are still regarded as holy by people socially and
intellectually our equals What one feels indisposed to
reverence, he has no need to ridicule. One may, with
more show of justice, scoff at the holiqwness of a cul-
ture which fails to instill sympathy and insure com-
passion, and which, standing on the insulating stool of
its own conceit, takes the most exquisite delight in
contemplating its own superiority, check-book and fine
manners, instead of mingling with less favored brethren
and raising them to a higher plane.”
In connection with the anniversaries of the Pro-
testant religious societies in Paris, a conference of
pastors am elders was held, at which important ques-
tions were discussed. On the question ; “What is the
best attitude tor our Protestant churches to assume in
relation to the schemes under discussion for the com-
plete secularisation of state education in all branches
of public instruction?” it was agreed that secularisa-
tion is the only way to secure the rights of conscience
where there are so many faiths. Public instruction
ought to be alike for all. It was agreed, however, that
a certain number of evangelical schools ought to be
maintained, but solely by voluntary contributions.
NOTES FROM BANANALAND.
[BY ONE OF Us.]
There are forty-two public-houses and three
booksellers in Maryborough.
“Gone to the bank,” in Gympie postal lan-
guage, means “out seeing Bishop Barker.”
Morton Tavares, the tragedian, parcels delivery,
etc., is about to leave for India, having had enough of
Holland.
The Bowen New Year’s Handicap (.£10) was
won by Ah Cow’s horse “ Pop.” Is the Caucasian
played out.
The Queensland National Bank is doing the
leading business at present. So did the Bank of
Queensland for a time.
The Brisbane Star Dramatic Club, whose ward-
robe appears to comprise half the outfit of an indigent
piratical gang, are at Gympie—looking for work.
Several more interesting visitors from New
Caledonia are shortly expected on our coast. The
police are very anxious to make their acquaintance.
The two greatest snobs in Brisbane are two
exalted grocers—one a colonial, the other a foreigner
who, by some means, got fostered into the Government
service.
He came from Charters Towers to oppose the
new Attorney-General for Bowen. He was an unselfish
candidate, but if the Government would appoint him
Crown Prosecutor he would retire. He did retire;
that’s where the joke came in. The Attorney General
elect of Bowen gave the local District Asssociation a
picnic down the harbour. It was a great success. The
average record per man for the day was one bottle
brandy, one bottle whiskey, four bottles ale, and aerated
waters and claret ad lib.
After all, Mr. H. Thomas, druggist, of Withers-
field, was lost in the bush as first telegraphed. The fun
about the affair was the mashed way in which the name
was telegraphed to the Sydney papers.
The Brisbane Courier has a “ leader ” in its
issue of the Ist of this month on the evils of gambling.
It is to be hoped that none of the staff who have a
weakness that way have been “ hit” lately.
Courtenay Spry is extremely popular, and would
be entrusted with the whole of the magisterial work, as
far as the other J.P.’s are concerned, were it not that
Mr. Pinnock must do something for his screw.
The successful candidate at the last election
in Maryborough paid 19s 7d for each vote given him :
while the unsuccessful candidates, Keith and Hurley,
paid, the former nearly 5s and the latter 6s 3d, for each
vote.
Volunteering is still popular in Brisbane. There
are lots of Majors and Captains. It costs the colony a
bit of money, gratifies Palmer, pleases a few egotistical
old fools, and affords no end of amusement to nurse-
girls.
It is said that a Bank manager in this colony
makes double his screw by speculating in properties
belonging to Bank customers who get mysteriously
“pushed” occasionally. Motto: “ Every man for him-
self,” etc.
The clerks in the Brisbane Customs Department
are the best trained lot in the service, consequent, no
doubt, upon the excellent drilling they receive from
General Taylor, who is very determined, but singularly
unfortunate, in spotting winners.
John Kennedy, who was waited upon by a
deputation last week, stated he had no objection to act
for the Government in their future purchases in the old
country, but he had decided objections to joining the
Salvation Army now running in Brisbane.
A notice issued by the Toowong Shire Council
reads “ The clerk will be in attendance Mondays, Wed-
nesdays, and Frydays." Every day lately has been liter-
ally a fry day, the the mometer ranging from 100’ in the
shade upwards. That clerk has no sinecure.
The Statutes are being
Cooper-ed.
A Townsville doctor
reads while he kills.
Great fall in beef at
Gy mpie lately. A seventeen-
stone J.P. got sunstruck
and fell off his horse.
The Lady Mayoress of
Bowen would like very much
to know who your corres-
pondent is ? Is it not one
of her most intimate
friends ?
The Hon. Wm. Alpin
has retired from the
Townsville Municipal Coun-
cil. Too much, you know, to
expect an M.L.C. to sit as a
common alderman.
Colonel Blanland is in
Townsville, organising a
volunteer corps. The lead-
ing spirit really is an im-
petuous Irishman, who goes
to private parties and to
church in his “riggimin-
tals."
Much attention is be-
ing drawn to the magnifi-
cent sugar-growing land
north of Cardwell on the
Tully river, and also on the
Lower Burdekin. I hear
many capitalists and intend-
ing sugar planters are on
the selections there.
A great flatter in the
judicial dove-cot at Mackay
lately. I am told that for
certain electioneering ser-
vices rendered, a hawker
there was gazetted to the
Commission of the peace
and had the mystic letters
J.P. painted after his name
on the spring cart —Mass
meeting of J’s.P., a flood of
resignations, and a Minister
in a quandary.
Lively times in our
Municipal Council at Char-
ters Towers, what with pro-
secutions for embezzlement
against the Town Clerk and
Rate Collector, actions for
damages by contractors
against the Council, ditto
by the Town Solicitor, and
quarrels among the aider-
men themselves. A citizen
who wants more excitement
in municipal affaits at once
is a glutton.
From the Far North
comes another pitiful tale of
“Lost in the bush.” In-
spector Dyas, of the Native
police, left his camp, 40
miles from Normanton, to
look for horses, taking a
bridle and gun with him,
but never saw a white man
again. He was found four
days afterwards, forty miles
from the camp, speared by
the blacks. He was speared
while asleep, his cowardly
assailants flying imme-
diately, leaving him to bleed
to death, but returning next
morning to strip and rob his
body.
Certain of our Civil servants have received an
official notice that should it be discovered they borrow
from money lenders on the security of their salaries
they will render themselves liable to dismissal. Who
will now venture to say we do not live under a paternal
Government ? There is a rumour that duplicate orders
to draw the same salary gave rise to the above.
D’Orsay Ogden and Miss Beatrice are playing
at Brisbane, and they appear to have the
Observer reporter. Speaking of them in “ Never For-
gotten ” he simply remarks The play itself is a
choice, • . and introduces Miss Beatrice
a u * n the noblest position of the actor—
that of both entertaining and instructing the public,
inculcating the grandeur and advantage of moral prin-
ciple, truth, and virtue and honour, and at the same
time a contempt and detestation of all that is impure,
or mean, or unmanly. The demeanour of Miss Beatrice
is naturally that of a woman of delicate fine feelings and
ardent sensibilities.
‘ Of her bright face one glance will trace
A picture in the brain.
And of her voice in echoing hearts
A sound must long remain ’ "
Now, we don’t go in for criticism of this kind ourselves,
though we admire it. We wonder whether the man
wrote this of his own accord, or whether he was egged on
by Ogden. We Dorsay the latter was not the case. We
expect, however, the lady’s smiles had somerhing to do
with it; and possible the “ critic ” observed to her over
tne sardine-banquet that preceded the performance -
‘ Yon shall have it Beatrice. As you like it." The man-
ager of the theatre was Thynne; the audience wasn’t.
Miss B. is now playing “East Lynne,” and a run on the
fourpenny handkerchiefs has set in. “My che-ild— ’’
“What mamma!” But let us wipe away a te-ar.
Ruskin, the great art critic, says to a gentleman
who is trying to improve printing and binding:—”
have the most entire sympathy with your objects, but
believe that people u'vll have nothing but bad paper
nowadays, bad printing nowadays, and bad painting
nowadays—and nothing else.”
"NO STARCH IN HIM.”


NEXT SATUEDAY, 12th FEBEUABT.
NEXT SATUEDAY,
ON THE GEOUND.
MOUNTAIN TABLE LAND.
BONG BONG, MOSS YALE, MITTAQONG.
THE GEE AT OPENING SALE OF THE YEAE.
664 Acres, 2200 feet above the sea,
with very considerable Eailway Frontages,
Bracing Climate,
Eich Pastures, Beautiful Drives,
Fine Scenery, and Verdant Mellow Slopes.
TOWNSHIP. VILLA, AND COUNTEY LOTS,
on the Great Intercolonial Trunk Eailway Line,
surrounding the Moss Vale Eailway Station.
with 3500 feet of Eailway Frontages,
Areas varying from half an acre to eight acres.
Sale by Auction, on the Ground,
on SATUEDAY, 12th February, 1881.
Special Train from Sydney,
with Free Pass from the Auctioneers.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST have, pur-
suant to a decree of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales, in its Ecclesiastical Jurisdiction, in the
cause of Lackey v. Bowman and others, been instructed
(with the approval of the Master in Equity) to sell by
auction, on the Ground,
NEXT SATUEDAY,
12th February, at 2 o’clock,
ABOUT 664 AGEES OF LAND,
at Moss Vale, being an extension of the township
of Moss Vale, surrounding the Eailway Station,
and having about 3500 frontage to the Eailway
Line.
THE TOWNSHIP subdivision comprises 9 sections,
divided into 240 Lots, of from one quarter of an acre to
two acres each.
The suburban divisions comprise 10 sections, contain-
ing 71 Lots, in area from 3 to 14 acres each, with every
variety of aspect.
MOSS VALE, from the salubrity of its climate and
the easy and cheap railway access, is becoming the
favourite locality for change of air for the residents of
Sydney.
AMONG THE COUNTEY SEATS in the neighbour-
hood may be mentioned “ Elm Court,” the property of
the Honorable Alexander Campbell, M.L.C., and built
by him as a sanatorium ; “ Throsby Park,” some time
the residence of Earl Belmore, “ Mount Broughton,”
the residence of W. O. Gilchrist, Esq., “Vine Lodge,”
the Badgery Estrte, “ Browley,” the Estate of David
Morris, Esq., “ The Grange,” the property of S. W.
Laidley Esq., “Burradoo," the residence of Captain
Sullivan, “ Hill-view,” the residence of E. P. Eichard-
son, Esq., “Newbury,” the residence of Charles Nichol-
son, Esq., “Mount Atkinson,” the estate of J. J. O.
Atkinson, Esq., “Golden Vale,” the estate of Edward
Carter, Esq. Also the estates and mansions of Colonel
Eoberts, the Honorable F. M. Darley, Esq., A. Tange,
Esq., the Messrs. Osborne, and the Honorable John
Lackey, Esq., M.P., Minister for Works.
THE DISTRICT is renowned for its rich grazing
properties, and its prosperity is proved by the number
of business houses in Moss Vale, including branches of
Banks.
FEOM its very elevated position on the southern
slope of the colony. Moss Vale must be the Sanatorium
of New South Wales, where the residents of the hot
Western and Eiverina districts can recruit their health.
It has also the advantage of being the central spot where
nearly all the roads of this district, from Wingecaribee,
Kangaloon, Bnrrawang, Sutton Forest, Shoalhaven,
and the celebrated Waterfalls concentrate.
AN illustrated pamphlet is now published for dis-
tribution, giving a more extended description of
THE ESTATE FOE SALE,
and PLANS AEB NOW EEADY FOE DISTEIBU-
TION, by Mr. Licensed Surveyor Binsted, of the
property to be sold.
TEEMS ;
ONE-THIED CASH, and the balance at one and two
years, bearing six per cent, interest.
TITLE FIEST-CLASS.
DATED this 17th Day of December, a.d. 188).
A. T. HOLYEOOD,
Master in Equity.
PLANS AND FUETHEE INFOEMATION can be
obtained from the Auctioneers, Messrs. MILLS, PILE,
and GILCHEIST, Number 114 Pitt-street. Sydney;
and from the undermentioned Solicitors :—Messrs.
HOLDSWOETH and EVANS, Pitt-street, Sydney;
A. H. M'CULLOCH, Junior, Pitt-street, Sydney; and
THOMAS SALTEE, Hunter-street, Sydney.
pl N J O Y LIFE.
But few, in fact not any, really enjoy life, those
nearest t) enjoying it are the most discontented,
the anticipation of pleasure being the only thing
enjoyed, yet many thousands discouraged, dis-
heartened people might not wish for death, or
commit snicide, as they do, were it not for the
most bitter of all cups the miserable and discour-
aging eifects of Dyspepsia and Liver Complaint, expect-
ing every day to be carried off by PAE ALYSIS, APO-
PLEXY, HEAET DISEASE, CONSUMPTION, and
many other symptoms of DYSPEPSIA and INDIGES-
TION. Now, if you have no faith in Patent Medicines,
and have lost hope in your physician, I would ask you
in eood faith that you try only one bottle of GREEN’S
AUGUST FLOWEE, it can do you no harm, if one
bottle does not give you astonishing relief, don’t use
any more. All Chemists sell it.
Sample bottle to try, 6d; Large bottle, 3s 6d.
WHOLESALE BY ELLIOTT BEOTHEES.
QUEEN’S THEATRE.
Managers ... Messrs. Coppin, Hennings and
Greville.
Musical Director Mr. Chas. Austin.
THIS EVENING.
Will be presented the most Successful of all American
Dramas, in 5 Acts, by Joaquin Miller, the poet of the
Sierras, and founded upon the onslaught on the Chris-
tians by the Mormon Sect, subsequent to the murder of
the Prophet Joe Smith.
THE DANITES;
or THE DESTEOYING ANGELS.
Magnificent Scenery, Authentic Sketches, by Mr.
Kinchela.
Mr. J. C. Williamson informs honourable managers
and actors that he has purchased from its owner, Mr.
M’Kee Eankin, the sole right of performing this Eo-
mantic Story of the Sierras in Australia and New Zea-
land, and trust 3 that his interest in “THE DANITES”
will be respected.
Pit, Is; Stalls, 2s; Boxes, 3s; Eeserved seats, 4s;
Private boxes, 30. Box office at Paling’s.
SCHOOL OF ARTS.
Lessee Mr. W. H. Thompson,
Continued Success of
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIEEOE
of the
WAK IN ZULULAND,
Eeceived nightly by Crowded and delighted Audiences,
who have testified by unanimous applause that the
Exhibition is the MOST AETIBTIC ever introduced
in the Australian Colonies.
THE MAGNIFICENT DISTRIBUTION
of a
COMPLETE SUITE of DEAWING-EOOM
FUENITUEE,
and one hundred other COSTLY PEESENTS, takes
place at the conclusion of the Performance
EVEEY EVENING.
Eecipients of Drawing-Eoom Furniture on Monday
and Tuesday :—Mr. Bussell, of Stanley-street, and Mr.
Sachs of Manly Beach.
Prices of admission —3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at half-past 7; overture at 8 sharp.
Sole Proprietor & Lecturer... Mr. W. H. THOMPSON.
Agent PHILIP STUAET.
BOWRAL. BOWRAL.
THE FAMOUS GIBRALTAR ESTATE,
Being all that elevated good agricultural Land, situate
between two of the most thriving townships on the
Southern line, and consisting of 1400 acres of Land,
subdivided into FAEMS, COUNTRY BLOCKS,
BUSINESS and VILLA SITES, as follows :
1. NORTH BOWEAL TOWNSHIP, consisting of
NINETY (90) MAGNIFICENT BUSINESS
and VILLA SITES, commanding frontages to
CLIFF, OXLEY, KING, and CLARKE STREETS,
and the MAIN MITTAGONG EOAD.
2. EAST BOWRAL TOWNSHIP, consisting of
EIGHTY-SEVEN (87) splendid sites, commanding
frontages to MEEEIGANG, GLADSTONE, and
CAELISLE ROADS, and QUEEN, OXLEY, and
EAEL STREETS.
oar These Allotments being so near the BOWEAL
RAILWAY STATION, are especially adapted lor
BUSINESS purposes or VILLA Sites.
3. GIBRALTAR TOWNSHIP, being that portion ef
the estate nearest MITTAGONG, consisting of
SIXTY (60) Business Sites, fronting the MITTA-
GONG EOAD, GIBRALTAR PAEADE, and DEAN
and BRIGHT STREETS, and (adjoining the pro-
perty of the Fitzroy Iron Company.
4. MANCHESTER. ONE HUNDRED and FIVE
(105) BLOCKS, vaiying in area from | acre to 4
acres each, fronting MAIN EOADS, leading from
Bowral and Mittagong townships.
5. WINGECAERIBBEE FAEMS, consisting of
FOETY-EIGHT (48) FAEMS, varying in area from
9 to 70 acres each, situate between GIBRALTAR,
MANCHESTER NOETH, and EAST BOWEAL
townships.
%• This WELL-KNOWN Estate, the admiration of
everyone, situate in the healthy climate of Bowral,
SOLD BY PUBLIC AUCTION, ON THE GROUND,
AT 12.30 P.M.,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 19th FEBRUARY.
S 3" THE TEEMS will be—* cash, and the balance by
promissory notes at 12, 18, and 24 months, bearing
interest at 6 per cent, per annum.
«g- THE TITLE IS FREEHOLD.
Messrs. DEANE and DEANE, Vendor’s Solicitors.
HARDIE and GORMAN, acting under in-
structions from P. L. C. SHEPHERD, Esq.,
will sell by public auction, on the ground, at 12 o’clock
SHARP.
SATURDAY, 19th FEBRUARY,
that large country estate known as
the GIBRALTAR ESTATE, lying between
BOWEAL and MITTAGONG,
on the
GREAT SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
«■ Lithographs may be obtained at the Rooms, and
an inspection of the land is invited.
This is a clearance sale, and the proprietor is de-
termined to sell.
The land i- worth attention,, and with increase of
population, will rise in value.
RAIL COMMUNICATION is regular and frequent,
and in the TOWNSHIP of BOWRAL, besides having
the advantage of a good Public School and churches ..t
all denominations, all the necessities of life can readily
be secured.
The drives are many and pleasant; the country
around is undulating and pretty. The elevation is
2800 feet above sea-level.
LUNCHEON will be PROVIDED, and a PEER
TRAIN will leave SYDNEY on day of sale at 7.30 a.m.,
and return from Bowral at 3.45 p.m.
SATURDAY, 19th FEBRUARY,
at Bowral.
MOUNTAIN SITES,
WOODFORD RAILWAY STATION.
CHOICE SITES, adjoining the Celebrated WOOD-
FORD ESTATE, and oly 10 minutes walk from the
WOODFORD RAILWAY STATION.
RICHARDSON and WRENCH have received
instructions to sell by public auction, at the
Rooms, Pitt-street, on FRIDAY, 18th FEBRUARY, at
11 o’clock.
FOURTEEN SITES at WEST WOODFORD, BLUB
MOUNTAINS, as follows :
SECTION I.—Lots 1 to 5, FIVE BLOCKS, from 2
acres 0 roods, 15 perches, to 4 acres 3 roods 7
perches, in extent.
SECTION 2.—Lots 1 to 9, NINE BLOCKS, from 1
acres 1 rood 28 perches, to 6 acres 0 roods 37
perches.
car This sub-division is one of the finest in the
Western Mountains, only 55 miles’ run by train from
the city.
The sites have all the eastern slope, and command
magnificent charming views over the country eastward
right on to the metropolis and the great Pacific Oeean
beyond.
The sub-division is so arranged that on each lot there
is a site for a residence and area for orchard and pad-
dock.
The water supply is permanent.
TEEMS VERY LIBERAL.—One-fourth cash de-
posit; Residue, 6, 12, and 18, months WITHOUT IN-
TEREST,
The plan of sub-division is now on view at the rooms,
and the land has been carefully laid out by Mr. Surveyor
Parrott, of Pitt-street.
LITHOGRAPHS in COURSE of PREPARATION.
Professional Addresses
M
R.
R,
S. L A Z
ADDRESS :
Professional —Theatre Royal.
Private —“ Oeta,” Queen-street, Woollahra.
Mr. j. r. greyi l l e.
ADDRESS:
Queen’s Theatre, for the Season.
M
M 1
R. L. M. B A T L E S S.
ADDRESS :
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently,
M' B. FRED. M ARSHALL.
ADDRESS;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street.
SS MYRA KEMBLE.
ADDRESS :
Until end April—Theatre Royal, Melbourne. From
April until end October —Theatre Royal, Adelaide.
M
R.
& MRS. HARRY W. EMMET,
(Miss Marion Melrose).
ADDRESS:
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, till end of March.
PRIVATE ADDRESS:
Macquarie House, Macquarie-street, Sydney.
R. M. S A L A M O N.
ADDRESS ;
Gaiety Theatre, Castlereagh-street, permanently.
ISSES ALICE AND CONSTANCE
DEORWYN.
ADDRESS:
Lome Terrace, Capel-street, Hotham, Melbourne, till
February.
R, AND MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
(Zulu War).
ADDRESS :
The Oxford Hotel. King-street, Sydney.
M
M 1
M
H
ILIP S T U
(Agent Zulu War).
ADDRESS:
The Oxford Hotel, King-street, Sydney
art,
M
R, J. C. WILLIAMSON,
ADDRESS:
Theatre Royal, Sydney.
T
Lessee...
HEA T R E
ROYAL.
...Mr. Sami. Lazar
THIS (Saturday) EVENING, FEBBUAEY 12,
and Every Evening, until Further Notice,
will be produced
Tom Taylor’s World-renowned Comedy-Drama,
AN UNEQUAL MATCH,
with a powerful cast of Characters, and entirely New
Scenery and Effects.
ARTHUE GARNEE, Manager.
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taepiug,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncoloured teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting, which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.— Karl Theodore |Staioer, analytical
chemist.”— Advt.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
It is rumoured that a new daily paper is to be
started in Sydney; the plant arrived 1 ytbe John Elder.
Eleven publicans were summoned in Melbourne for
Sunday trading on the 31st ultimo. The Collaroyhas
not yet been got off. It is intended to erect a memo-
rial to the late W. Sanrin Lyster, in Melbourne. Sir
Arthur Gordon is making a tour of New Zealand.
Numbers of persons are being fined daily for wasting
water. It is officially stated that the railway from
Sydney to Newcastle will soon be commenced. Mr.
N. A. Tenison-Woods, one of the ablest correspondents
of the London press, is dead. The ship British Mer-
chant collided with the Bremen barque Marguerita in
the English Channel. The extension of tramway to
Randwick is being pushed on. A little girl, named
Margaret Edney, was severely injured by running
against a hansom cab in Oxford-street. The American
Novelty Co. has just imported a new patent thief-
resisting safe. Tramcar accidents becoming monoto-
nous. Messrs, Olieveri and Sarfath, Italian exhibitors
in the Melbourne Exhibition, have been fined £lOO by the
commissioner of customs for selling and delivering para-
sols and other goods on which noduties had been paid
Herr Bandmann has written to the Otago Daily Times
offering to give a free Shakespearian performance to
the clergy in order to convince them that the stage is a
place, not of amusement, but of instruction. The
Empire Hotel at Young, as well as Cobb and Co.’s shed
and two coaches, were totally destroyed last week.
The Gympie gold yield for the last year was43o7loz.
Mr. G. L. Lukin is gazetted police magistrate and
mining registrar of Gympie. A child, named Annie
Belford, aged fourteen months, died at Gympie recently
—poisoned by eating wax matches, the heads of which
were of a green colour, composed almost wholly of
phosphorus. Lithgow iron works shortly to be
lighted with gas. Sydney George Smith, 6, son
of Mr. Robert Smith, Bogabilgal, Forbes, accidentally
drowned. Goods train left the track at Muswell-
brook; engine and cars embedded deep in mud. Nar-
andera-Junee railwav opens at the end of February.
The Wellington (N.Z.) Cup was won by Natator. Time,
3 min. 38 sec. The Hon. W. J. Clarke has presented
a thoroughbred horse to the Emperor of Japan. The
Dublin Mansion House Relief Committee has issued its
balance-sheet. Amount received trom Australasian
colonies, £94,022. A deliberate attempt to murder a
woman named Caroline Perry was made in Melbourne.
Jealousy, two Georges, and a gun. Louis O. Carr
was sentenced to 12 months imprisonment for libelling
Mrs. Mary Bull, of George-street. It was a very gross
case. Within one week the steamer Flinders took
550 people from Melbourne to Tasmania. Dr. Hastie,
late house surgeon at Sydney Infirmary, is now prac-
tising at Lithgow. A man named Rudolph Sander
attempted to commit suicide in Geelong Gaol. In-
sanity. The Newcastle Rowing Club’s contest for
the Mayor’s trophy has been definitely fixed for the
19th. National Mutual Life Association of Victoria
purchased the comer of Collins and Queen-streets, Mel-
bourne, for the sum of £23,000, or £460 per foot
The blacks speared a man at Nott Brothers’ sta-
tion, Gilbert River, and are spearing cattle at O’Brien’s
Green Hill Station. A miner named Edward Rouse
has been killed at Sprio Reef, Georgetown by falling
40 feet dowa a shaft. The body of a woman has been
found in a creek near Perth, four miles from Bathurst.
The ship Earl Dalhonsie has arrived at Brisbane,
bringing 256 immigrants. The new Grammar School
at Rockhampton opened with 53 pupils. The new
light at Cape Otway shows brilliantly 3£ miles off. A
Minmi miner named Lewis is missing from home.
Supposed to be drowned in the Hexham Swamps.
A number of men out of employment on the Lancefield
railway line, owing to temporary stoppage of work.
A case of a serious nature is now in the hands of the
police against a well-known resident of Parramatta.
A destructive fire occurred at Morgan, 114 miles north-
east of Adelaide. Daniel Fogarty, guardsman, in-
jured by tram at Narracoorte (S.A.), died on Friday
week. Reported discovery of coal at Narracoorte
(S. A.) supposed to be a /iosco. —Complimentary banquet
to Alderman Carter, M.P., on Monday, 14th Feb.
The antimony smelting works, at Carangula, Macleay
River, are working night and day, with good results.
Some rich lodes struck recently. James Glynn com-
mitted suicide at Bathurst by taking strychnine.
Inquiry into the stranding of the Chimborazo held on
Friday week at Adelaide. Regatta to take place at
Grafton on Queen’s Birthday. Luncheon to be given
by Royal Sydney Yacht Club to their commodore on
19th inst. The escort left Temora on 2nd inst. with
16760z5. 6dwts. 16grs. of gold. A horrible murder has
been committed at Goondiwindi. A young woman named
Laugeback cut the throat of her infant. Agricultural
show at Kiama a great success. The Collaroy, it is
feared, will become a total wreck.——The Chinese still
continue to smuggle opium into Victoria. A young
man has been fined £5 at Gawler (S.A.) for sending
a highly indecent drawing to a young lady.
Mrs. Martha Wrightson, wife of the Public School
teacher at Cobargo, hung herself on the 2nd inst. De-
ceased was a daughter of Mr. Stephens, formerly a pub-
lican at Bodalla. She leaves seven children, including
a baby six weeks old. Deranged mind. The Mur-
rumburrah Court-house was opened on the 4th by
Messrs. Robinson, P.M.; W. Barnes, J.P.; and J.
Robertson, J.P., presiding. Mr. Gordon, solicitor,
opened the proceedings with a few well-chosen remarks
congratulating their worships on tbe occasion, and the
Police Magistrate siutably replied. Splendid rich
stone in reefs at Temora. More nuggets found.——Greta
miners andtopmen received fourteen days’ notice; 15
men only retained to supply the Morpeth steamboat
trade. Police vigilantly watching Newcastle oyster
beds. Southall and Tracey’s tender, £33,999, for the
erection of the National Bank building, Brisbane, ac-
cepted. Home, a dairyman at Emu Creek, near
Bowen, has been killed through his cart upsetting.
A lad named White was bitten by a death
adder at Toowoomba, and died after eight hours
of acute suffering. The emigrant ship Blair Gowrie,
with 352 passengers, left England for Sydney January
31. —Two children, named Hutchinson, fell from a bal-
cony at Redfem —one, aged 9, was severely shaken;
the other, aged six months, was killed.—l,7Bs patientts
at the Adelaide Hospital last year cost £8,700. Our
recent notice of pathway in front of the Burwood
School of Arts has had the desired effect. Less pro-
fanity in the neighbourhood now. Kubale, a farmer
at Edithburg (S A.), arraigned for the murder of his
daughter. Adelaide telegraph messengers to have
tricycles. 1500 head of cattle leave Bowen (Q.) shortly
for a splendid tract of new country discovered by Mr.
Favenc on his transcontinental trip. Owing to the
severity of the drought westward the blacks in the
Albert District have been forced to make for the
stations where they find food and water. A married
gentleman, holding a high position in an educational
establishment at Ballarat, is said to have eloped with a
single lady who has a right to a large fortune.
George Smith alias Ray, an accomplished “ crib cracker”
and trickster, got five years for burglary at Parramatta.
When the rain fell in Sydney last week, the con-
sumption of water in the city ran up to 4) million gallons.
The Hurdsfleld Freehold Company, Ballarat,
which had made but one call of Is. Id. per share, paid
dividends the first year £9900. The merchant tailor
and the merchant milkman ran a dead heat for Alder-
manic honours for East St. Leonards, last Saturday.
Jem Young, the other merchant, will be nominated for
the next vacancy.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Fair woman’s sceptre.—The rolling-pin.
Girls begin to elope in America at fourteen.
Miss Braddon, the novelist, is a good house
keeper.
A Cuban bride recently wore a bridal wreath of
diamond orange blossoms.
Thirteen of Mrs. Brigham Young still live in
the Lion House, Salt Lake.
London Truth holds that the first duty of a
woman is to make herself nice-looking.
The Queen of Wurtemburg is nicknamed the
“ King of Petticoats ” by her subjects.
She who Mrs. to change from Miss
Has Mr. chance of married bliss.
A girl who has a mind to set herself about it can
learn the handkerchief flirtation in six days.
A rich man often makes a poor husband. Still
the girls are willing to take a poor husband.
The “Yera,” is a new hat, named after the
heroine of Ouida’s last and wickedest novel “ Moths."
The ladies care little about the stature of their
lovers. Still they must be pardoned if they lean a little
hy-men.
Eve was the first woman to gather autumn
leaves. She converted them into an apron immediately
after the fall.
By French law women are incompetent to wit-
ness a signature. The question of removing this dis-
ability is being agitated.
A Sandhurst woman the other day eloped. The
husband travelled hard, and overtook her. In her hurry
she had forgotten her carpet bag.
Prince Leopold recently called on the late
George Eliot, and told her that he had read her last
novel, “ Middlemarch,” nine times.
Painting sun hat brims is the newest freak of
fashion. The Countess de Paris was the first to have
the coat of arms painted on her bonnet and strings.
This is decidedly a bad year for stout women,
for the draperies are so heavy, and the tight dress so
close-fitting that there is nothing in which they look
well.
There is a girl in the Bathurst district who can
yoke a buffalo, run down a kangaroo, and break in a
young horse ; and the local paper laments that she has
not yet found a husband.
The directors of the Edinburgh Philosophical
Institution have ordered the removal of “ Ouida’s ”
novels from the shelves of their library. What a grand
advertisement for the authoress!
An Italian fisherman recently found, in one of
the Nevada lakes, a petrified woman. He distinctly
states that no sooner had he brought the lifeless body
ashore than the tongue began to move.
A correspondent tells us an interesting story
about four ladies who go to dinners and receptions to
talk and help the hostess entertain her guests. The
price for their services is two guineas an evening.
In a recent English railroad accident, Mrs.
Mitchell, a widow lady of fortune, on her way to a sum-
mer retreat, lost two sons and a daughter, while she,
another son, and her servant, were seriously injured.
Bridesmaids no longer appear in trains. Only
the bride assumes this impressive and cumbersome
rebe, as if she would symbolise by its weighty but silken
trammels, the serious cares and pleasant duties she is
assuming.
In London, at Rotten Row, round felt hats are
as much, if not more, worn than the high silk hats; and
every lady appears to have a bouquet of flowers pinned
to the side of her habit. It is just the one touch of
colour that is wanted, and the only one that is admis-
sible.
A female meal-packer in one of the American
cities placed in one of the bags of meal a card to the
effect that any gentleman matrimonially inclined might
address her. A widower, while preparing his lonely
breakfast, came across the card. He didn’t cook his
meals any more.
A Belfast young gentleman, who was driving
out with a young lady, came to a muddy part of the
road, and fearing that her dress might be spattered,
he placed his light overcoat on the wheel, and his gar-
ment was ruined. She refused to ride out with him
again; ho was too extravagant.
The Countess de Lesseps is quite a young girl
She fell in love with the old gentleman’s science at the
opening of the canal. One day she begged him to wear
her rose; he asked if she did not mean it for his son.
She had some difficulty in persuading him that his en-
terprise and genius had charmed a girl used only to the
sleepy men in the Isle of France. But their marriage
made a part of the Suez fetes, Ismail Pasha loading
them with presents.
The Princess of Wales has a pretty little custom
of making butter in a silver churn at her children’s
breakfast table. The Marchioness of Lome says of this
sister-in-law, that she has the most wonderful dis-
position in the world, trouble flying from her thoughts
like water from a duck’s back. Alexandra is said to
have made a visit of condolence to the Duchess of
Edinburgh on the occasion of the last marriage of the
Czar of Russia, which has greatly grieved the daughter,
who idolized him.
Albanian marriage arrangements are very peon'’
liar. When a damsel arrives at a marriageable age, her
parents publish the fact among her friends and ac-
quaintances. Should no suitor come forward, it rests
with her brothers to find one. A brother so circum-
stanced will sometimes come up to a male friend in the
street, and make the complimentary proposal then and
there. “ You are just the man I wanted to see ” —thus
goes the abrupt formula on these occasions—“ my sister
is now fourteen years old ; you most marry her.” Eti-
quette forbids a plump refusal.” We know a number
of girls in these parts who have brothers, and yet—the
girls are single.
A lady engraver, of Columbus, 0., taught her-
self the art in order to reproduce the drawings which
she made to illustrate a book of her husband’s. This
is very pretty, isn’t it ? But here the grovelling
historian stops. He don’t care to say that when the
book was written, and the first block—an illustration of
a love scene —submitted to the author, he considered it
too strikingly original—and told her so, upon which her
heels beat the devil’s tattoo on the parlor carpet for the
first hour, after which his manuscript and her block
were immolated on the same funereal pyre. That’s what
happened. And now she has taken to modelling in clay
—in his Sunday coat as an earth-preventive. Delightful
woman.
Here is Sidney Smith’s receipt for dressing
salad:
“ To make this condiment, your poet begs
The pounded yellow of two hard-boil’d eggs;
Two boil’d potatoes passed through the kitchen sieve.
Smoothness and softness to the salad give.
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl.
And, half-suspected, animate the whole.
Of mordant mustard add a single spoon—
Distrust the condiment that bites so soon ;
But deem it not, thou man of heats, a fault
To add a double quantity of salt.
And, lastly o’er the flavoured compound toss
A magic soupfon of anchovy-sauce.
Oh, green and glorious! oh, herbacious treat 1
’Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat i
Back to the world he’d turn his fleeing soul.
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl!
Serenely full, the epicure would say,
‘ Fate cannot harm me—l have dined to-day.’ ”
A Dream of Thee.
If perchance that thou shouldst dream
Of some bright enchanting scene.
Where a soft effulgent light
Banishes the gloom of night.
And the stars themselves seem pale,
Midst the lustre of that vale.
Where the modest violet
Mingles with the mignonette.
Incense only made for thee,
Stolen by the honey bee.
Where the fairest roses grow.
The crocus scarce its head can show.
Then I would my dream should be.
One undying dream of thee.


?\ST
458
s
G
AIE T T
THEATRE.
Lessees Messrs. L. M. Bayless and John Solomon.
SEVENTH WEEK OP
ME. PEEDEEICK MAESHALL.
SATURDAY, February 12, and until further notice,
W. S. Gilbert’s
THE WEDDING MARCH.
Breceded, at 8 p.m., by the Domestic Drama,
THE POETEE’S KNOT.
Mr. MAESHALL IN COMEDT AND DBAMA.
JAMES D. COX, Treasurer.
M
ASONIC HAL
THURSDAY and FRIDAY.
L,
CHRISTIAN-TURNER-MONTAGUE,
CONCERTS.
TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS of the NEW TENOR,
Whose Grand Voice and Magnificent Singing evoked
a perfect storm of enthusiasm, and who, with
MISS CHRISTIAN,
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE, and
ME. EDWAED FARLEY,
AND OTHER ARTISTS,
will give
TWO MORE GRAND CONCERTS.
%• ENTIRE CHANGE of Programme on the above
EVENINGS.
Reserved Chairs, ss; Family Ticket, admitting five,
£1 Is ; Unreserved Seats and Balcony, 3s; Family
Ticket, admitting four, 10s.
Plan of seats, and all classes of tickets at Nicholson
and Co.’s.
R. S. SMYTHE, Manager.
IRATES OF PENZANCE.
NOTICE to MANAGERS and OTHERS.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON having purchased from
Mr. R. D’Oyly Carte, of London, the sole right of
producing the Comic Opera, “ THE PIRATES OF
PENZANCE,” for the Australian colonies, New Zea-
land and Tasmania, hereby gives notice that in the
event of any infringement of his rights the severes t
legal penalties will be enforced.
Petty’s Hotel, Sydney, February 9,1881.
TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND PROPERTY
BUYERS.
Our PRINTED PROPERTY REGISTER (7th issue)
is NOW ready for circulation.
COPIES may be obtained at the Rooms, ON APPLI-
CATION, or wiU be FORWARDED PER POST to any
part of the colony, free of charge.
This issue gives full report of sales made during the
year ended December, 1880, in addition to other and
full information,
HARDIE AND GOEMAN,
Property Auctioneers,
132 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ALENTINES. VALENTINES.
An excellent invention this.
Worthy of love’s most honey’d kiss.
This art of writing billets-doux
Is buds, and odours, and bright hues ;
Of saying all one feels and thinks
In clever daffodils and pinks;
Utters —as well as silence may—
The sweetest words the sweetest way.
VALENTINES. VALENTINES.
SHOWROOMS ON FIRST FLOOR,
TURNER and HENDERSON,
for best assortment,
16 and 18 Hunter-street.
BAZAAR,
FURNITURE SHOW ROOMS,
237, 239, 241, 243, 245, 247 PITT STREET.
Established a.d. 1840.
A. MOORE and CO. invite the attention of parties
furnishing, to the large and varied selection of all
descriptions of Furniture they have at their extensive
premises. The whole of the stock has been re-marked
—prices considerably reduced —and a visit will prove
that Furniture, Carpets, Household Utensils, &c., can
be purchased at the LABOUR BAZAAR at a cheaper
rate than at any other house in the colonies.
Wholesale buyers liberally dealt with.
Any description of Furniture manufactured to order.
Experienced packers on the premises.
ALEXANDER MOORE AND CO..
Manufacturers and Importers.
HOPE ti DEAF
Garmore’s Artificial Ear Drums
RESTORE THE HEARING and perform the work
of the Natural Drum. Remain in position without aid,
and are not observable. All Conversation and even
whispers heard distinctly. We refer to those using them.
Send for descriptive circular.
Address FRESHMAN, JONES, & CO.,
338 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WHERE ARE THE CLOVER FIELDS r
At MOSSVALE.
Where are the pastures so rich that they will support
a beast to every acre ?
At MOSSVALE.
Whepe con yon get Tasmanian CLIMATE within four
hours of Sydney ?
At MOSSVALE.
Where is the Devonshire of New South Wales for
milk and butter ?
At MOSSVALE.
Where is every acre of the whole 664 to be sold by
auction on SATURDAY next, all rich land, fit for
gardens, without any waste rocky ground ?
At MOSSVALE.
m Get a SET of PLANS and a TICKET for tne FREE
TRAIN from
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST. Auctioneers,
114 Pitt-street.
w
HERE CAN YOU PRACTICE
“COMING THRO’ THE EYE ?”
ONLY AT MOSS VALE.
The rye is already there on every acre, and you need
only watch the pretty rosy-cheeked girl
AT MOSS VALE.
BUY an ALLOTMENT at the SALE, next SATURDAY.
FREE TRAIN leaves at 9.30 a.m.
MILLS, PILE, and GILCHRIST,
Auctioneers.
The new south wales
PROPERTY INVESTMENT COMPANY,
Limited.
REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES’ ACT.
CAPITAL, £20,000, with power to increase to £lOO,OOO.
FIRST ISSUE. 800 SHARES OF £25 EACH,
One third of which were taken up immediately upon
the formation of the Company. The remainder are
now offered to the public on the following terms: —
Fifty shillings per share on application, and the
balance (up to £l2 10s per share) in calls not ex-
ceeding (10s) ten shillings per share, at intervals of
not less than one month.
DIRECTORS:
Mr. George Crawshaw, Chairman.
Mr. S. T. Whiddon, Jun., Vice Chairman
Me, Johr Nobbs
Me. Thomas Moore
Mr. T. S Parrott
Me. J. W. Benson
TRUSTEES r
Mr. John Nobbs Mr. T. S. Parrot.
AUDITORS :
Mb. G. J. Waterhouse Mr. George Geeville.
MANAGER:
Mr. H. G. Swtnt.
BANKERS :
Bank of New Zealand.
SOLICITOR:
Mr. William Cope,
Temporary Office of the Company, 129 Pitt-street,
Opposite the City Bank.
The objects for which the Company is established, as
set forth in Memorandum of Association, are:—
The acquisition by purchase, lease, or otherwise, of
lands, houses, and other real and personal property in
New South Wales.
The erection of houses and buildings on any land of
the Company; the enlargement, alteration, and im-
provement of existing houses and buildings thereon;
the converting and appropriating of any such lands into
and for roads, streets, gardens, parks, and pleasure
grounds, building plots, and other conveniences, and
the general improvement of the property of the Com-
pany, with power to make, construct, and maintain
tramways thereon or in connection therewith, or to
subsidise vehicles for the purpose of facilitating com-
munication with, and enhancing the value of the pro-
perty of the Company.
The selling, leasing, mortgaging, and otherwise dis-
posing of the lands, houses, and other real and personal
property.
To negotiate loans of all descriptions upon any terms
as to profit or remuneration, and to lend money on the
security of any description of real or personal property.
To give any guarantee or any security of the Com-
pany that may be required or agreed upon for the per-
formance of any business undertaken by the Company.
To do all or any of the above mentioned things where
the same may lawfully be done respectively, and either
singly or in connection with any other corporations,
companies, firms, or persons.
To receive money on loan or deposit, or otherwise,
and either with or without giving any security of the
Company, or upon any property of the Company, for
any such money.
To purchase or acquire the goodwill, assets, and pro-
perty of, and in any trade or business of a character
similar to any business which the Company is hereby
authorised to carry on, also to amalgamate with any
other companies, partnerships, or corporations.
To do, or cause to be done, all or any such things as
may be conducive to, or necessary for, the attainment
of the above objects, or any of them.
The liability of the members is limited to £25 per
share, but it is not intended to call up more than £l2
10s. per share.
It will readily be gathered from a perusal of the fore-
going that this Company is not a Building Society in
the general acceptation of the term. The scope of its
operations is much wider, and, having a proprietary
capital, it affords additional security to the investor
and a decidedly more profitable employment for the
capital.
The evils attending the present system of sub-division
have already nearly ruined some of our most favoured
suburbs. Visitors from other countries are constantly
remarking how far behind the times we are as compared
with other cities of like importance, where the value of
co-operation in planning suburbs is more fully under-
stood and appreciated.
The want of some better system has long been felt,
and the present season of railway and tramwaw exten-
sion, together with the very low price of money, afford-
a splendid opportunity for the operation of a Company
like this. Large ar*»as of rich and beautifully situ-
ated land have hitherto remained locked up for want of
improved communication; and now that new suburbs
are to be formed, it is most important the evils of the
old system should be avoided.
In its operations this Company will, by a liberal
treatment of the various modes of sub-division,
endeavour to develop the natural|features of the land,
at the same time secure to the purchasers the ines-
timable advantages of wide roads, suitably located with
ample reserves, and, by proper building regulations,
prevent the erection of unsightly tenements, and thus
pieserving the character of the property, and conse-
quentlyenhancing its value of investment or residence.
The House Property and Investment Company,
Limited, of London (established in 1876), obtained
£40,000 premium from the issue of the first half of its
capital. The second halt, amounting to half a million
sterling, is now being issued at £5 per share premium
(£25 shares), affording us an example of success that
can be more than realized here where we have a rapidly
increasing population and greater facilities for securing
large and eligible blocks of land for subdivision.
Under the management of Directors we have been
for many years engaged in the acquisition and disposal
of landed property, this Company offers to the public a
safe and profitable means of investment.
Early application will be necessary, as the number of
shares to be issued is limited.
Forms of application. Articles of Association, and
any further information, may be had from the Manager,
at the Temporary offices of the Company, 139 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
OUR CELEBRATED SHIRTS
Have st t ■ o/PUBLIC OPINIOh
; for more than
; A QUARTER OF A CENTURY.
u/r(d arc still ucknoudcagecl to be unequalled.
All who. wear shirts and value, 'comfort are
respectfully , solicited to pftroiixze
®~i SMITH & MANNELL.
! SHIRT MAKERS & HOSIERS,
09 S Gre'org;e Street,
ESTABLISHED .I&4I., , .... ;SLY.PN,EY;
OOLALTA WINE CELLAES,
A. S. N. CO.’S WHARF.
Sydney, January 14th, 1881.
I have much pleasure to inform my CONSTI-
TUENTS and the general PUBLIC that, in consequence
of the large INCREASE in my BUSINESS, I have ar-
ranged with my brother, Mr. WM. WILKINSON (late
manager of the Kirkton Vineyard), to act in conjunc-
tion with Mr. D. MURRAY, in Sydney.
I am now placed in a position to largely EXTEND my
VINEYARD, and devote the necessary time to the
growth and maturing of my WINES.
ADDITIONAL CELLAES
have been engaged in a central position, and will
SHORTLY be ANNOUNCED.
I am pleased to again have an opportunity of thank-
ing my NUMEROUS FRIENDS and SUPPORTERS
for their very LIBERAL SUPPORT during my BUSI-
NESS CAREER in Sydney.
JOHN A. WILKINSON.
PERMEWAN, WRIGHT and CO.
•
oWMe.t looj^i———
Capital—£loo,ooo, in 20,000 Shares of £5 each.
(Established 1855.)
RAILWA? andQENERAL CAREIERS, CUSTOMS
and
SHIPPING AGENTS.
Directors :
Hon. HENRY CUTHBEET, M.L.C.
C. W. GIBSON, Esq. (Messrs. Fisken and Gibson)
JOHN PERMEWAN, Esq. J.P. ) „ . ~. ,
JOHN E. WEIGH, Esq j Mana,fUl * Du ' eCtorS '
Registered Office—l2o Collins-street West, Melbourne.
Sydney Office —King.street, next door Howard Smith
and Sons.
Branch Offices at
With Agencies at Adelaide, Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Bourke, Balranald, Booligal, Forbes,Parkes, Wilcannia,
Hillston, and Molong.
Sydney, Ist February, 1881.
HOTEL HE FRANCE,
78 & 80 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal.
D E.
or
n
851
F
EBACH
MU
P
m
LUNCHEON and SUPPER-ROOMS. FIRST-CLASS
ACCOMMODATION FOE TRAVELLERS.
S. MUHLEBACH & GEYMULLER,
PROPRIETORS.
A N L
T BEACH.
A. PORTER, FAMILY BUTCHER,
CORNER BELGRAVE AND RAGLAN STREETS,
MANLY.
Best country killed Meat. Mutton, Pork, and all
kinds of Poultry.
Small Goods always on hand.
Families waited on daily.
LBERT S. MANDERS AND CO.,
(Late Grant, Manders and Grant),
PRESS, TELEGRAPHIC, ADVERTISING AND
COMMISSION AGENTS,
91 LITTLE COLLINS ST. EAST, MELBOURNE.
Victorian, Intercolonial, and New Zealand papers
supplied, and Advertisements received for the same.
We can supply Australian and New Zealand News-
papers with Articles, Reports of Meetings, Correspon-
dence, and General News, either by letter or telegram ;
and Newsagents and other business people can have any
kind of business transacted in Melbourne by applica-
tion to us.
The above Firm have Agents in all the colonies, from
whom they get all the earliest Sporting News, and now
supply, at moderate cost, the leading Hotels, Clubs, &c.,
with telegrams of results, after each race, of all Sydney
and Victorian Race Meetings.
Hourly Telegrams of Principal Cricket Matches,
&c., supplied.
We are prepared to forward the result of any or every
race to any part of the Australian colonies imme-
diately after the horses pass the post, or at the termi-
nation of the day’s sport.
Special arrangements made for New Zealand and
Tasmania.
Sole Agents in Australia and New Zealand for the
TYPOGRAPH. Send for Circulars. Will print SXK)
copies of Circulars, Drawings, Music, &c., on permanent
paper, and on any paper. No washing-out required.
P. 0.0. made payable to the above.
Rent and Accounts collected. Every description of
PRINTING executed.
SYDNEY AND COUNTY BANK,
(issue a nddeposit),
(To be Registered under the Companies’ Act, limiting
the liability of Shareholders).
CAPITAL 12500,000, in 50,000 shares of £lO each,
(With Power to Increase).
FIRST ISSUE 12,500 SHARES.
Upon which the sum of £5 will be called up, as
under:—
£X Deposit on Application.
£1 Payable on Allotment.
Balance in Calls of £1 each, at intervals of not less
than three months.
Should additional capital be required, new Shares
will be issued, but such shares shall be first offered to
existing Shareholders.
The Company will be declared formed upon £5OOO
shares being subscribed for, and up to that number they
will be allotted, in full, in the order of application.
PROVISIONAL COMMITTEE :
F. Cook, J.P., (formerly Manager Union Rank,
Meloourne.)
Alfred Bennett (Evening News).
W. A. Brodribb, M.P.
John Harris (Mayor of Sydney).
Anthony Hordern (A Hordern and Sons).
Henry Hudson (Hudson Bros.)
George Kiss.
Montague Levey, J.P.
J. Yelvebton Mills, J.P.
Alfred Nathan (Cooper and Nathan).
Thomas Saywell.
John Young.
PROVISIONAL SOLICITORS:
McCarthy, Robertson, and Fisher.
BANKERS:
Australian Joint Stock Bane.
The high estimation in which all Local Bank Stocks
are held, as evidenced by tbe large premiums which at-
tach to their shares —so high as to be almost unremu-
nerative to present purchasers—and the large accumn-
lations of capital now awaiting investment, point to the
present time as most opportune for the establishment
of a new Banking Company.
Notwithstanding the great increase in the population
and wealth of the Colony, there has been an unusually
long period since s new Bank was started (City, 17 years
ago; Mercantile, 11 years ago).
The Banking returns to 31st December last show that
the large sum of £11,948,383 is deposited at rates not
exceeding 4 and 5 per cent, (since reduced to maximum
3 per cent.); and £5,934,641 as bearing no interest at
all; whilst the sum of £1,500,000 is held by the Savings
Bank, and about £540,000 by the Post Office Savings
Bank at low rates.
A perusal, too, of the "Broker’s Investors Guides”
shows that whilst the dividends of our Colonial Com-
panies range from 8 te 25 per cent., the returns to pre-
sent purchasers—except in very few instances —do not
exceed 6 per cent.
It is at all times wearisome to people to wade through
a string of platitudes or a mass of statistics ; the Pro-
jectors therefore content themselves with pointing out
as above, " the large amount of money unremunera-
tively employed,” "the increased growth and wealth of
the colony, since a Bank was started,” and the “ gener-
ally profitable character of Banking investments; all of
which facts they think fully warrant them in placing
this undertaking before the investing public, and—as
healthy competition is at all times desirable —they trust
it will meet with liberal support.
The Articles of Association will provide that each
Half Year, before declaration of a Dividend, a sum of
not less than 10 per cent of the net profits shall be set
aside to a reserve fund, until such fund shall have
reached One Fourth of the paid up Capital, and the
said Reserve shall be invested is Public Securities to
provide a ready contingency fund. This course will
give a steady value to the stock.
When applications for 5000 Shares are received, a
Meeting of Shareholders will be called to consider and
pass the Articles of Association, and to elect Five
Directors (two of whom shall retire annually by ballot,
but shall be eligible for re-election).
Business will be commenced first in the City of Syd-
ney, and, after that office has been fully established,
such reticulations throughout the Counties as may offer
profitable inducements will be attended to.
Agencies will be established in London, and such
other commercial centres, as may be required for the
proper conduct of the business of the Bank.
Applications for Shares are to be made on the sub-
joined form, either through Palmer and Thompson,
Brokers, 113 Pitt-street, or to the Provincial Commit-
tee direct, from whom Prospectuses and Forms of Appli-
cation can be obtained.
Applicants to whom no shares are allotted will have
their deposits returned in full.
Applicants in the Country may send the deposit re-
quired on application by Bankers’ Draft, Crossed
Cheque, or Post Office Order; or may pay the same to
itsi credit into any of the Branches of the Australian
Joint Stock Bank.
Attention is called to the subjoined Table, showing
the large premiums which attach to the Shares of the
Local Banks in the Colony, as well as the Dividends
and the amount of their Reserved Profits.
Any further information can be obtaired from the
Provisional Secretary, Mr. Fredk. Cook, at 113 Pitt-
street, any day (except Saturday) from 2 to 5 o’clock.
Sydney, January 31,1881.
FORM OF APPLICATION.
To the Provisional Committee of the Sydney
and County Bane:—
Gentlemen, —
Herewith I hand yon the sum of £ ,
being a deposit of £1 per Share on Shares of £lO
each in the above Company, which 1 request you will
allot to me, and I hereby agree to accept the same, or
any less number that may be so allotted, subject to the
provisions of the Memorandum and Articles of
Association constituting the Company.
Name in full
Occupation
Residence
Date
K
NG STREET
XS THE
GREAT CENTRE OF ATTRACTION TO LADIES
WHEN OUT SHOPPING.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the New
Dress Materials, Fashionable Fichus, Visites,
Mantelets, Silk Jackets, &c.
Ladies should call at the Bon Marche and see the
Splendid Assortment of Underclothing made from
Horricks’s Long Cloths of English and our own
manufacture, all marked at low prices according to
tbe Bon Marche system.
LEADER AND STARK.
96 KING STREET.


Miscellaneon:
Q LIFFORD, LOYE
TEA IMPORT!
EASTERN AND CO
MERCHANT!
Receive regular consignman
in receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualit
Do. Indian Prize Me
CHUTN1ES—Indian Pr
PRESERVES—Indian ]
COFFEE —Plantation K
Do. „ P
Do. „ 3
RICE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—Flake and
SAGO
PEPPER—White and 1
OFFICES348 GEORi
EDWARD STREET, ;
IMPOETEE <
Plumbers* and Engineers' Brass
Gasfittings, Globes, Electrii
Butchers’ Brine
Iron, Brass, Coppe
and Lead Pipe,
119 LIVEEPOOS STEEP
WORKS,
Habris-steeet, off Ge
and
Adjoining the Darling Hi
S. G. would beg to draw the p;
Export Merchants to the large
Spokes always on hand, which
saving in freight to purchasers
timber in the rough.
S. G. has also always in stool
Buggies, Waggonettes, Express
Vans, Drays, &c., &c.
S. G.begs also to notify that he
Carts, and has supplied the Goverr
Municipalities with a large numb*
AND AT
JOHN
D
S.
J GLASS
STEAM COACH AND W
STEPHEN GLAE
Harris-street, n<
Blacket and
119 BATHURST STREET, SI
Miscellane
D
EYSDALE AN]
397 George St
76, 78, 145, 147 Yoi
33 Pitt Ste
IRONMONGERS, IRONM]
IMPORTE1
Invite attention to their extra
which besides being the largest
varied; and comprises all the lai
Engines Engineers’ Material
Agricultural Implements, 1
Chaff-cutters, Ploughs
Coach-builders’ Material,
Axles, Buggy-bodies, Lan
Founders’ Material, Pig Iroi
Builders’ Ironmongery, Cha
Brass Foundry, Locks, I
Squatters’ Requisites, Wire,
Ac., Ac.
Oils, Paints, Rope, Rolled .
And
GENERAL IRONIV
W
ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS’
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
H E B B L E
416 GEORGE SI
MERICAN MACH]
M
A
[. P. GEBGOEY
N®. 11, PITT-ST
Importers of all Desi
CHI
Have for Sal
J. A. Fay and Co.’s First Specia
Machinery—Sydney Exhibit
Blake’s Patent Special Steam Pi
Rubber and Leather Belting, Ra
tucks packing round and squ
Insertion and pure gum packing
Emery Wheels and Machines —P
Bock Drills, Windmills
Planing Machine Knives
T. and G. Cutters, Machinery 0
quality guaranteed, Ac., Ac.
Send for Circulars a
KING STREET
TAILOR
r . m
ff. • G A7N DT'S COTTON BELTING,
feii. - r rr —kr--
UALLDAY’S BELLOWS,
tangyb j steam pumps.
IBBOT’ SON'S STEEL,
IBBOTSON’S FILES,
LAEGE VAEIETT IN STOCK.
SHEEP WASH, MINING, SLUICING AND IRRIGATIN'
Engines and Boilers of all si
Jack Crabs, Cranes, Bellows, Pc
IN STOCK.
E T E s
PERFECT
PURI
Non-poisonous! Non-corrosive! Agreeable. The greatest An
of the age. The finest Sheep-wash in
Extracts from a few of the numerous Colonial Testimonials : —
From Dr. Dansey : Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier is splendid for hous
by all classes of Society. From Rev. Geo. Woolnough, .
for my throat I could not desire anything more effect!
Purifier. From L. King, Esq., Inspector of Asylumn, Sy
equal as a disinfectant and purifier. From J. L. Nevito
Purifier is a wonderful deodoriser, disinfectant, and clearing
From Mr. H. Meads, Sydney : —My child had sore eyes for 2i
one week. From C. A. Laurence, Esq., (Stephen, Laurence,
troying aphis and all aphides that infest plants and frm
Purifier is unrivalled.
Sold in Drums and Bottles —Retail, by W. H. SOUL, Pitt-
PALMER (late MOSS and COMPANY), 224 (184) Pitt-street, Sj
Jeyes’ Sanitary Compound Company (Limited), London. Agents
CD
C*
ec
mPERgC®
PRIZE
COCO A
CO
Against the world
R. Harper & Co.’s
Manufactures
were awarded
Ten First Prizes
and the
Special First
as the best of their
class in the Sydney
International Exhi-
bition, 1879-80.
mm
»T»«|
These goods
fresh, wholesoi
and genuine. 1
Exhibition Judg
Report says
“ Deserving
special notice. 1
quality is ft
equal to import
they are well £
tastefully got u;
BUY
CD
o<5
CO
PRIZE
cc
<c
g I N G E E’S GENUINE SEW
ALL FORMER YEARS OUTDON
The SINGER Manufacturing Co. Made and Sold 431,1 1
MACHINES, this number being 74,735 in excess of Sales of any i
2,500,000 SINGER’S MACHINES NO 1
The Public have the guarantee of Singer and Co., of our twe
40,000 men, producing 8,000 SINGER’S Sewing Machines, and
pany’s Agency, G. J. WELLS (Late Stanford and Co.) is exactly 1
PRICES —£6 10s. Cash. m
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM on the Most Liberal Terms—5
The Public are cautioned against German Imitations and Bin
