

BULLETIN
Vol. B.—No. 95.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1881.
Price— 3d
Cjje §ul(etiit.
ft
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1881.
The Next Step.
The Milburn Creek affair, ao far as it has gone,
haa been productive of immep.se injury, but inci-
dentally of one considerable benefit. There can bo
little doubt that the decision of a majority of the
Assembly, on Friday morning last week, haa
placed the House distinctly at variance with the
country. The members of electioneering rings
and local cliques, who pull the strings at elections,
and exert themselves —too often successfully—to
secure the return of the man who will render them
personally the best value for their trouble, may
regard with dislike any course of proceeding
which seems likely to make scheming and lobbying
difficult and dangerous. But the people of the
colony are, as a body, sensible of the importance
of absolute integrity prevailing in political affairs.
They, unlike the local wire-pullers, have nothing
to gain by crooked ways. They want fair play ;
and they desire to obtain it without having to
interrupt their ordinary avocations, either to ear-
wig a member, or to struggle against a ring.
• « •
The injury done by the Milburn Creek affair
thus far has been entirely effected by the division
in the Assembly. The position of those members
who refused to vote for the Premier’s very mode-
rate motion would have been comprehensible had
they advanced, as a reason for so declining, their
own insufficiency for the role of judges. Had one
among them said that, while he would lend every
aid towards a full and exhaustive investigation,
such as the Eoyal Commissioner had indicated to
be necessary to supplement his own, the facts
before him wore insufficient to satisfy him that he
would be justified in lending himself to so signifi-
cant a course as expelling Mr. Garrett, the
position would have been comprehensible But,
with a few exceptions, to be referred to presently,
the members who voted against the Premier’s
motion assumed that they had arrived at a posi-
tion of finality, and decisively pronounced Mr.
Garrett not guilty, on consideration of the same
evidence which had seemed to a trained jurist,
and an entirely disinterested man, sufficiently con-
vincing to justify him in formally stating that a
*»riiHfi facie case had been mado out against Mr.
'xnHBTT.
* * *
The position in which that honorable member
has boon landed, cannot possibly be folt to be
satisfactory to anyone concerned, or to the conn-
try. No man of nice honour and delicate fooling
could bo otherwise than wretched if situated as
Mr Garrett is tc-day. With one miserable ex-
ception, tha entire Press of the colony—nay, of
ho colonies—has endorsed emphatically the con-
clusions arrived at by Mr. Salomons. And even
admitting that the Assembly is a fitting iribunal
to decide respecting offences, which, if proved,
reflect upon its own composition, the division of
Friday morning cannot, when analyzed, be more
than cold comfort to a sensitive man. The
majority of four which refused to follow the
Premier’s lead, was oddly composed. It served
to indicate how little fit for juridicial functions
such a chamber is. The principal members of
the Opposition signified by their language, their
demeanour, and their vote, that however greatly
they might dislike the intrusion of corruption,
they detested the Premier more than they loved
Pure administration. It was made perfectly clear
that Messrs. Forte u, Fitzpatrick, and Burns
Rave their votes, not with the view of extricating Mr
Garrett, but with the set purpose of embarrass-
ing the Premier. Mr. Forster’s speech showed
plainly that Mr. Garrett s defence had not im-
posed upon him, and it ended in a jubilation that the
affair had shaken the coherence of the ministerial
phalanx. Mr. Fitzpatrick’s reference to Mr Gar-
nett was in the same strain as Mr. Forster’s,
ftnd Mr. Burns declared outright that the furthest
he could go would bo equivalent to a Scotch
verdict of *‘ not proven.” Herd, then, out of the
majority of four, are three who are obviously
swayed by other desires than to assert Mr.
Garrett’s innocence.
# # #
If Mr. Garrett is content to escape expulsion
thus, by the skin of his teeth, and to passthrough
life hereafter with a certificate of acquittal pro-
tested by within a fraction of half the Legislative
Assembly, and within a fraction of tho whole
Press of the colonies, he must be, for an honorable
man, very singularly constituted. If ho bo really
innocent of the practices indicated by the Com-
musiouer’s report, he stands in a shocking position
just now, with so large and influential a body of
unbelievers confronting him. Tho more minute,
tho more searching, the more crucial tho investi-
gation which can bo instituted, the bettor for the
elucidation of the truth. Mr. Garrett’s interest,
as an innocent man, still under the blackest cloud of
declared and voted suspicion which ever over-
shadowed a representative man in the colonies,is to
demand a trial such as other men have to undergo
As an innocent man it will bo his wisest part to divest
himself of every shadow cf privilege or advantage,
to stop out of the shelter of the Assembly, and
claim to be allowed to pass through the same
ordeal as decides the innocence or exposes tho
guilt »f individuals among tho people whom ho
represents.
* * *
If Mr. Gaßrett does not feel prompted to
demand this justice for himself, it behoves the
Government to claim it on behalf of the country.
The Premier owes tho country a reparation. For
this scandal he is in part responsible. But for
tho declaration that the compensation money
must bo voted to the Milburn Creek claimants, as
an essential part of the policy of the Administra-
tion, there would have been no plunder to divide.
It is gratifying to observe that at this critical
juncture Sir Henry Parkes has had the dispo-
sition, and has also been in a position, to draw to
him, to replace tho colleague who has separated
from his Administration, two men of the highest
reputation for integrity and self-respect. The
enlistment of Messrs. Darley and S. C. Brown
appears to furnish a guarantee that Sir Henry
Parkes Has himself no cause to fear any
reprisals such as Mr. Garrett seemed to hint
his readiness to wage if hardly pressed.
* # #
To the Government, as expurgated and rein-
forced, the country now looks for an uncompro-
mising vigour proportionate to tho emergency. The
situation is frightfully critical. Should a prece-
dent bo established, that investigation into
allegation of corruption may bo quashed by a
single vote of a bare majority in the Assembly, as
soon as these allegations have been so far investi-
gated as to appear deserving of serious attention,
an irresistible invitation to politicians to form a
league for plundering the country would bo held
out. All that would be needed would be that an
absolute majority in the Assembly should be
participants, and there would be no remedy left
to the people short of a revolution by force of
arms.
# * #
The evil done by tho Milburn Creek affair up to
the present time ‘has boon the inculcation of an
idea that inquiry can be quashed in the manner
just indicated, and that oven what might bear the
aspect of detection, to ordinary citizens, may by
the exorcise of courage and talent be rendered
impotent to materially harm politicians. Should
this _ idea bo allowed to gain headway, it would
inevitably como to pass that the population of the
colony would divide itself into two sections:
first, the plundering ring, manipulating the
Legislature, and perhaps—Heaven forefend
—employing the Courts to intimidate or
crush all who resisted or raised the voice of pro-
testation ; and, secondly, tho industrious majority,
too busy, too proud, or too honest, to dabble in
political wire-pulling. The good that has pro-
ceeded from the scandal has been tho disintegra-
tion of the Coalition, and the probable restoration
of a proper balance in the Assembly. The Coali-
tion Government too nearly verged upon auto-
cratic and unconstitutional power, and evinced,
as might have been expected, agrowing disposition
to abuse that power. We may now hope to have
a reasonably strong, and certainly very vigilant
Opposition, and of the gain of that by no means
small mercy, the Milburn Creek imbroglio is the
direct cause.
Professor W. Denton.
There can be no doubt that the two most notable
visitors to the colonies during tho past year arc
Mr. Proctor and Professor Denton. What wo
owe to tho one in the matter of Astronomies!
we are indebted to the other in respect of
Geological science. The two men have, by their
capable and lucid treatment of hard facts, given
an incentive to study in tho direction indicated
that was certainly never previously experienced
here, and never expected. The popular style in
which Professor Denton gives, in his “ Story of
the Earth,” the revelations of geological research,
has had the effect of awakening inquiry as to tho
natural history of our own continent. In Vic-
toria and in this colony his lectures have been
largely attended, and it is satisfactory to find that
from a financial, as well as a scientific point of
view, the professor’s visit to Australia is not with-
out good results. Professor Denton was born at
Darlington, in tho North of England, in 1823.
Ho received a common school education, and spent
about five years at mechanics, at Shildon. Ho
left that place for the Borough Eoad Normal
School, London, where he was trained for a
teacher. He taught a school at Newport, Wales,
for about three years, and then, in 1818, left Eng-
land for tho United States. He taught school in
Dayton and Cincinnati, Ohio, and commenced his
career as a popular lecturer in 1851. Since that
time, he has lectured in the principal cities of tho
United States and Canada, making his home near
Boston, in Massachusetts, in which city ho has
{fivon more than a hundred lectures. Mr. Denton
is the author of some dozen volumes and several
small publications, some of which have had a
large circulation, and are recognised as standard
works. _ The professor’s habits are remarkably
abstemiona ; he uses no intoxicating drinks,
tobacco, tea, or coffee ; and he hardly ever lectures
without urging something against these popular
forms of indulgence. About 18 years ago ho
and Mrs. Denton wrote a remarkable work on
Psychometry, entitled ‘‘The Soul of Things,” and
it was followed by two other volumes on the same
subject. We understand he has now a fourth in
the press. Mr, Denton is studying tho glacial
phenomena of the Southern Hemisphere, and
contemplates writing a work on Island Life, com-
batting on some important points the views of
Darwin and Wallace, The Professor, on leaving
Sydney, proceeds to Tasmania and New Zealand,
en route to America.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Damn the Government!”
“Damn the Government!” said a member of tho
Legislature of this colony, according to Mr. Garrett*
on the occasion of that gentleman’s impeachment,—
“ I am going to give fair play.” Acd this significant
utterance, said Mr. Garrett, at Moss Vale, last Satur.
day, is to be the key-note of the political philosophy of
tho future. By the retirement of Sir John Robertson,
wo will now have a chance of something like Parliamen-
tary Government. The political life of tho country has
bees deadened since the Coalition Ministry came into
existence; tho Honso has passed the measures sub-
mitted to it almost without question. Thus Mr.
Garrett ; and wo are prepared to loud all tho attention
to his opinion on this subject that his experience and
sagacity entitle him to receive. Wo have nothing to do
Just now with the circumstances which have thus End-
denly placed at the public disposal the pent-up treasures
of his experience and sagacity. Mr. Forster pointed out
that this last phase of tho Milburn Creek business was
one which wrenched aside those party considerations
which compelled men to veto for their party even in
direct opposition to their own conscientious convictions.
We have been politically demoralized too long. Party
Government, for which our Constitution provides, baa
long since given place to a purely personal and feebly,
arbitrary rule,- while tho Constitution itself has
threatened to become practically a dead-letter. The
facta which Mr. Garrett indicates are not valuable as
revelations of a state of affairs hitherto unknowr.
Tho thing is notorious, and his denunciation is only
valuable as a confirmation, from a well informed source
of current public opinion. It may not, perhaps, havo
been generally known that the Government was sup-
ported in office by such an active sentiment of bigotry
as was particularised in Mr. Garrett’s speech. But it
his always been universally recognised, as one of tho
curses that followed this exceedingly strong Govern-
ment, that questions of vital .importance never had a
ohancj of being fairly dealt with on their merits. And
ordinary observation has sufficed to show that, what-
ever might be the question under debate, if tho
Opposition supported it, the Premier "had but to point
to tho Denominationalists opposite, and worn h:s
following not to vote with them,” to carry the result
in his favour. But the beginning of the end is already
in sight. The fear of the Education hobgoblin and
scarecrow is nearly worn out. And we are alrudy
PROFESSOR W. DENTON.


HOP BITTERS I
ARE
THE PUREST AND BEST
MEDICINE EVER MADE.
They are Compounded from
Hops, Baclin, Mandrake and Dandelion,
The Oldest, Best, must Renowned, and
Valnable Medicines in the World, and
in addition, contain' all the best and
most effective curative properties of all
other B:tters, being the greatest Liver
Kem la tor, Blood Purifier, and Life
and Health Restoring Agent on earth.
Ask your Druggist or Physician,
Do not suffer yourself, or let your
friends suff. r, but use, and urge them to
use. Hop Bitters.
Remember, Hop Bitters is no rile,
drugged, drunken nostrum; but the
Purest and Best Medicine ever made,
and no person or family should bo with,
out it.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
If you are suffering from poor health,
or languishing on a be 1 of sickness, take
cheer, for
Hop Bitters Will Cure You.
If you are simply ailing, if you feel
Weak and Dispirited, without clearly
knowing why,
Hop Bitters Will Revive You.
It you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral duties;
or a Mother, worn out with care and
work,
Hop Bitters Will Restore You.
If you are a man of business, cr
labourer, weakened by the strain of your
every-day duties, or a man of letters,
toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters Will Strengthen You.
If you are suffering from overeating
or drinking, any indiscretion cr dissipa.
tion, 6r are young a#il growing too fast,
as is often the case.
Hop Bitters Will Relieve You.
If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and fe.d
that your system need* Cleansing, Tou-
ing, or Stimulating, without iutoxica-
ting,
, Hop Bitterj ii What You Nee*.
. If you are old, and your blood thin and
impure, pulse feeble, your nerves un.
steady, and your faculties waning.
Hop Bitters Will Give You New Life and
Vigour.
Hop Bitters is an elegant, healthy,
and refreshing flavouring for sick-room
drinks, impure water, &c., rendering
them harmless, and sweetening the
mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
CLEANSE, PURIFY, AND ENRICH THE BLOOD
with
HOP BITTERS,
and you will have no sickness or sufforißg.
MONTBFIORB, STUART, ft CO.,
65 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
General Agents for Australia.
YAN HAAGEN’S toilet soaps.
manufactured by
BENJAMIN BROOKE & CO., PHILADELPHIA.
U.S.A.
BEST, FINEST, AND CHEAPEST
FRENCH MILLED TOILET SOAPS.
These wiaps are made of the purest and best material
and are unrivalled for
DELICACY OF PERFUME,
AND SUPERIOR LASTING QUALITIES.
Fine Rose
White Pond Lily
Prairie Bonqurt
Oat Meal
Palma Ro'a
Honeysuckle
Fine Honey
Uitrkish B .th
American Toilet,
Pure Palm
Laurel Bouquet;
Lilac Bouquet..
Naplei Bouquet, etc. etc. etc.,
FOR TOILET. BATH, and NURSERY USC&i
FOB SALE BY ALL CHEMISTS.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUART; ft COL
JgENJAMIN BROOKS S’
Compound Patented
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
for general scouring and cleansing purposes.
This Celebrated Scouring SOAP is a standard)dot****-
hold article in America and England
For washing Dishes and cleaning all Kitches VtonsiW f
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is invaluable.
For cleaning Brass, Steel, Iron, and Tin Ware, Firs*
irons, and all kinds of Cutlery, Earthenware, Glass,
Paint, Marble Floors and Mantels,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
la unequalled.
For cleaning Machinery from rust, washing Greasy
Hands, removing Ink or Tar Stains, and for polishing
Bright Surfaces,
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
has no equal.
No possible injury can result from the use of
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP,
and it is cheap, effective, and a great .saving of tins
and labour.
KITCHEN CRYSTAL SOAP
is approved by the Commissioners of the Government
Railways.
SOLE AGENTS for Australasia—
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,)
OP. GREGORY & CO. ’S
• SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKING TOBACCOS,
bear in v onr Brands,
•• ORIENT ” and “ SOUTHERN CROSS."
are unequalled by any Tobaccos over imported into' -
these Colonies.
MONTEFIORE, STUART, & CO.,
65 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
prepared to echo the objnrgativo resolve of the
unknown patriot, “ Damn the Government I lot via give
tho country fair play.”
Charity begins at Home.
A short time ago some Church of England people held
a meeting to weary man and worry God about tho
heathen. It was like most other affairs of tho kind—
largely attended, enthusiastic, and the congregation went
homo glorified by the eloquence of tho reverend perora-
tioners. But at this time it happens that one of the most
deserving charities in Sydney—the Rigged School is in
debt to the extent of £2lB. There is no room to enlarge
hero with dogmatical dulness on tho scope and work of
Ragged Schools; everyone who considers them must
agree that they perform a worthy work worthily. Tho
children whom these schools educate are such as no
Other schools meddle with—the offspring of the de-
praved—who, with only such a home-life as is shocking
to think of, would grow np into criminals and prosti-
tutes if the Ragged Schools were withdrawn. It would
ba slandering worthy men to say tho clergy take no
interest in those flotsam and jetsam of onr civilization ;
but the clergy hive not paid, and do not pay, the
attention to thorn they should. The clergy utter
mournful laments upon the decay of religion In tho
land. They cannot expect that people will believe
their teaching it they themselves transgress it. The
absurdity lies on the top. Wo may well say to the
gentlemen who attended the recent meeting: In God's
name, friends, why should we pay yon to teach Quasiiee
and others what aforesaid Quasiiee cannot understand,
while tho miserably innocent result of our social in-
equity should grow np savages, and worse than
heathens ? If we will not in Christian and manly and
womanly charity teach these poor children better, in a
d izen years we shall have to pay more for gaols, police,
and hangmen for them. If we will not help these help-
less ones from charity, wo must do so from policy. How
much better would it bo to spend some little money
and much pains in building tha love of God and of man
into those childish hearts, than to spend vast sums
succouring Qcasuef, who needs little from us, or
building a stone palace to worship God in, whan tho
fields are gcol enough P Oaa of tho reverend speakers
at the meeting urged the example of tho Apostles.
Ah, reverend, these men are no examples to you ; they
did for love what you do for money, and that’s a world
ol difference —
“ . . . qumrenda pecunia primiim est;
Yirtns post nummos.”-
HORACE.
Menacing the Press.
The public, perhaps, is not fully aware to how con-
siderable an extent they arc under obligations to the
Press of tho Colony, in connection with the Milburn
Creek affair. But for the courage of the Press in pub-
lUhing a report of the proceeding a alleged to have taksn
place at the meeting shareholders, nothing would
ever have boon known of tho peculiar features which
th® case presented. And since that disclosure the
newspapers throughout the Colony s > pointed the
ippral that it would have been scarcely possible for
nfly Assembly, even one of which a majority of men-
h,ers wore interested in suppressing investigation into
reputed corruption, to refrain from proceeding with
measures of inquiry and purgation. While in our own
Assembly tho Premier has acted with a directness and
resolution which do him infinite credit, there has
been an apparent disposition on the part of many mem-
bers to patch up unpleasant breaches, and get rid of
inconvenient inquisitions by a process of condonation.
The Press of the Colo.ny has almost unanimously
spoken out with uncompromising determination. The
Assembly, and even the Government, has been divided
against itself, in strange contrast with the complaisant
agreement which has so long prevailed. But the Press
usually at variance, on inessentials at any rate, has
united to declare, with one accord, its o nviction that
slothing should be le(t updone to trace every ramifleat ion
of the strange and sinister affair which has been partially
laid bare. There has been some reason to apprehend
a sort of political ring has grown into existence,
wire-pullers who make their market by prostitution
ef their functions and betrayal of their solemn trust.
Now, if such a ring existed, one of its first aims would
he to silence an independent Press by any and every
means available for the purpose. It will be well for the
public to be on the watch to observe if any tendency to
effect this object be evinced at tho present time. The
one newspaper in the colony, whose proprietary are in
a position to fight tho battles of tho pe iple ia the law
courts, and scarcely to fool the deduction from the
accumulated profits which they have for many years
drawn from the pockets of the public, is unhappily so
timid or so fond of money (hat it never ventures to
speak with the boldness and forco which would bo its
proper return for the fortunes which the people pour year
after year into its coffers. But newspapers, less omas-
culatedby wealth earned without exertion, have evinced
more courage; and there are indications that attempts
may be made to intimidate or gag those deserving ser-
vants of the public by vexatious proceedings, certain to
involve the owners in expense. If such attempts be
■eally made, and prove successful, the main safeguard
of the people will be lost to them. The affair ia that 0.
the people. Let them see to it.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Mr. T. M. Dalveen stands for Carcoar. He is
certain to be returned—home.
Seat at Newtown vacant. Mr. S. C. Brown
nominated to the Upper House.
It is to be hoped Mr. Garrett will support Mr,
Baker in bia candidature at Carooar.
Ministerial candidate likely to bo proposed for
Newtown against any other candidate.
Mr G. Campbell has been well received at
Carcoar. A meeting ol 500 unanimously in his favour.
Movement in the Victorian Assembly to put
t’own betting sweeps, which are said now to represent
a national vice.
■Prom the supplementary estimates for 18S1, just
an idea of the expt nses ia connect ion with
scaro can be gathered. £50.000 is the
little bill. , _ . .
The candidates announced for Carcoar are Mr.
a w Rae nroprietor of the Bathurst Independent,
Mr Geirge Campbell, a Cowra squatter. Mr. Free-
git SX.r«« **-j. “»•
Thn Melbourne Abgus considers that 6tr
Robertson’s withdrawl from the Parkes Admm-
fatration bu apparently led to lamentable failure of
j£sm“ connecUon with the Milbnrn Creek scandal.”
The Brisbane people are in terror. M'ilwraith
and our Sam both went North in the same steamer.
Just imagine these two loving friends sitting side by
J .*V" : ‘ the cabin and discussing steel rails, syndicate
. OT them talking the deck arm in arm ug*
over the fun tho Brisbane people are to have
had of late over their little bickerings. Bnroly steamer
never carried such loving hearts.
Thus a Melbourne paper: —“ Indeed New South
Wales is mortgagiugits future at a ruinous rale. Under
its apparent prosperity there is rottenness everywhere.
Its la ml system is one huge machinery which its people
arc being plundered by monopolists.”
THE NEWSLETTER.
Splendid mining news from Copelandv
Musical! Martyr of Antioch after Christmas.
The English cricketers arrived by tho ’Frisco
mail on Wednesday.
There’s a Tribe of people down from Tamworth.
AH the flags are out in tho streets !
Important discovery at Bourke of a copious
supply of water, at a depth of 572 feet.
Municipal elections next week. WoTl review
the qualifioati ins of the candidates pretty straight, next
Issue.
The Campdelltown Herald has a furious
lender against Sir Henry Parkes, iu Mr. Garrett s
interest.
The Gorman paper, defendants in the libel action
at Brisbane, gained the verdict. “ The Sacred Ibis ”
has now few worshippers.
The American Novelty Company has made a big
mportation of Christmas novelties—unique in design
and interesting, and unrivalled in price.
Phosphorizad oats is not only destroying the
rabbits in Victoria, but is also killing the emus, native
companions, and all other kinds of birds wholesale.
Wholesale thieving of building material, to tho
extent annually of some thousands of pounds, is per-
mitted at St. Leonards, North Shore, Thoro are no
police there.
South Sydney No. 4 Fire Brigade hold a pionio
at Bitany on Saturday. Lots of visitors from other
brigades and other colonies j fined, miking a large
party. Young Australian Band.
The Herald’s cable says the Carina’s cargo of
Orange killed beef fetched 41. in the Loudon market ;
while that of the Nooze says 2d. It would beodd if the
Ltre spoke tho truth.
A nut for the Melbourne men. Mr. Molyneaux,
a Sydney wool buyer, want to attend tha big sales.
“Why did you go down, Mr. M ?" “ Well, I know I
could buy cheaper there. I bought 3000 bales.” Fact!
The Nooze’s cable announces the arrival in the
London mat kefs of a cargo of frozen beef from tho
Orange River, U.S. Isn’t this, dear Alf., amudlle?
Are you not quite out of your latitude t Orange is ia
N.S.W.
It appears from a ease decided in tho District
Court against che Sydney Gas Company, that they
cannot recover lor gas consumed, the namo of the
secretary not having, as required by law, been regis-
tered.
Tho blacks attacked Captain Miller’s station, at
Flinders Island,. N.Q , but were repulsed. They were
more successful at Captain Webb’s station, at Knight
Island, where they partially destroyed the settlement,
and carried off' arms and stores.
E|The hall in connection with the modern High
School has been postponed. The prizes won in con-
nection with the school sports will be distributed with
tho ordinary school prizes at tho end of the present
term—about the 23th December.
In the case of Dr. Yan Heekeren, charged at
the Central Criminal Court, on Monday, with attempt-
-1 ing to procure abortion, the jury could not agree, and
1 were discharged. Prisoner was bound over in the sum
I of £B3O to appear at tho next sittings of the Court.
Smith, who recovered .£5OO from Dr. Iffla at
Melbourne, tho other day, (or giving a certificate by
which he was wrongly and illegally detained in a lunatic
asylum, has issued writs against every other person
who signed documents in connection with his imprison-
ment. .
A Kanaka at Marmadella Station, near Spring-
sure. in October cut two of his countrymen’s throats
and bolted. The native troopers tracked him to a cave
at the summit of a steep mountain, and an Irish con-
stable in charge, seeing that ho kept the troopers at
bay by heaving stones down on them, sent a bullet
through his temple, knocking out both Ida eyes, and
killing him.
. That genial bonifaco, Tom King, of Tamworth,
has discovered a copper reef which promises to be
worth labour in vein The locus in quo is not known to
many, but it is within a few miles of the town. The
lode is about four feet wide, and Tom says that the ore
on the surface is rich and plentiful. From a stone
weighing 71b. the crucible produced 4lb. of pure copper.
If the people will copperate with him, this item may
thru out a good speck.
i In a certain “ tonsorial artist’s” in Tamworth,
the “hands" are not only civil and well up to their
‘t profession," but can talk on any subject under and
over the snn. A certain M.P., whilst under tho lather.
Was eager to find the extent of his popularity, and sa d
to his shaver, “ Now what do yon think hot the policy
ahd adduced by Mr. (himself) on the
remission of interest qrestion ?” “ Bnnkum and rot,”
was the reply. Silence !
The sale of the Hon. T. Cummings’ stud sheep,
in Victoria, recently, realized £3'3,f00. The prices were
—453 gs., 300 ea , 430 gs , 270 gs , 310g5., 180 gg., 11l gs.,
etc. The highest tiguio was for Nugget the Third, a
four year old ram who fetched the highest price oa
record, namely, 1400 gs , at which price he was knocked
down to Mr. P. Russell, of Carriugham, a gentleman
well known as a breeder. The ram is a splendid sample
of what a merino should be, well covered from nose to
toes, and carrying a fleece of the finest quality,
A bush incident. In a paddock at Gobarrolong,
near Gnndagai, recently, a dog started a kangaroo.
Both animals cleared the fence, dnd went over tho hill
ont of sight. Never thinking that the dog would con-
tinua the chase (or long, the two men who saw the
affair proceeded on their way wilhthe cattle. How-
ever, tho dog never returned Jioma, and he was given
up for lost. A few weeks ago a person riding through
the bush in that neighbourhood came upon the remains
of both kangaroo and dog, clearly showing that the
two animals had bad a dispemte tight, and that each
had died from the injuries inflicted one upon the other.
■ln the town of Tamworth there are two giant
gnm-tieei standing together, which, when viewed from
a certain position by moonlight, form an interesting
picture of a huge emu standing erect, and looking over
its shoulder. The two trunks form the legs, with the
natural bend at the knees. The foliage delineates the
body, and at tho lower portion the scattered branches
pourtray faithfully the drooping feathers under tho
breast of the original. The natural stoop of an emu,
the graceful curve of the neck and shape of the head
are exact, and altogether the picture is an extraordi-
narily natural one. Very emwsing, in fact!
- Paradise ! At St. Leonards there is a patch of
land, about 300 yards fqnare, that contains three boil-
ing-down premises and one cemetery. Daring several
summers past tha air of the neighbourhood has not
been delectable. In patches the ground was spongy
with foetid masses of animal matter. Scores of denizen
pigs revelled in the hundreds of trenches dug by the
focal sand-thieves, and dead fowls lay about. A dead
bull rotted for days in the sun, while a hideous effluvium
polled up tho ravine at the head of the street (West-
street). All these, with the thiraaometer ten degrees
over blood heat, were in harmony with the surrounding
angle.
Sad news from Lizard Island! Mr. Watson
has found amongst the articles flnt brought to Cook-
town from Lizard I Hand, Mrs. Watson’s dairy, contain-
ing the following entries: —“ September 29: Ah Leong
killed by blacks at farm ; Ah Snm fount his hat, the
only proof. 30th: Natives on the beach at 7 in the
evening; fired a rifle and revolver, and they went away.
October 1: The natives speared Ah Sam in four places
in his right side and in three on his shoulder; saw 10
men altogether.” This was the last entry in tha dairy,
and it is now almost certain the brave woman has,
with her child, met a barbarous death at the hands of
the natives. .
LATE SPORTING.
Wcatherheafc won the principal event at tho
Glencoe races, on the 9th.
Tho Vegetable Creek J.C. hold their annual
meeting on 9th and 10th February.
Tho jockey Dodd, rider of Suwarrow in tho Mel-
bourne Cup, has died from the injuries he received in
his fall.
The Brisbane go-as-you-pleaso was won by
John Raynor, C. Williams 2ad, C. Wener 3rd, Hilde-
brandt 4th.
Tho Sydney settling for tho V.TI.C. Spring
meeting took place satisfactorily at Tattersall s, on
Monday evening.
It was tho Eastern Suburban band, not the City
Fire Brigade band, that played at the Fresh Food and
Ice Company’s picnic.
A great roller skating match in the distance.
The two best s-katers in the colony are likely to meet
on the “ historic shores," etc.
Tho Hippodrome did well at Newcastle, running
three weeks. Mrs. Page won the first prize in the six
days’ go-as-you-please. Miss Trieket tho second, Miss
Walker the third, and Mias Clarke the fourth. In the
second three days’ go-as-you-please. Miss St. George
was first, Madame Anderson second, and Miss Clarke
third. The Hippodrome has now gone to Maitland.
Barraba C C. v. Bingera C.C., at Bingera. on
the 9ch. The latter club won in one innings and 75
runs to The batting of J. R. (76, not out)
for Bingerawhs much admired. E. Quickendon (" the
old horse ”) 22, J. B. Wakely 21. Turner, for Bingera,
took 4 wickets for 6 runs, Wakoly 9 wickets for 21 runs,
Lyons 6 wickets for 22 rnns. Muir and G. Flynn batted
well for Barraba. Tho Inv. roll club play at Bingera on
19th inst. Both teams are good.
Friendly Societies Demonstration, November 9
Inverell Maiden Plate, 10S yards: M’Douald 1, Running
High Jump: M’Donald 1. Walking Match: Waldron
1. Handicap: E. Collins 1. Hop-step-and-jnmp: E
Collins 1. Youths’ 100 Yards’ Race: J. Walsh 1
Tilting at the Ring : T. Ashman 1. All-corners’ Handi-
cap : J. Heffeman 1. Standing Long Jump; Picton
and Connors,tie. Hurdio Race: J. M'Kiceu 1. Egg
mirt Sooou Baco : W. Skinner 1. Handicap Race : A,
Kirk 1.
CRICKET.
A cricket match came off at Singleton on the
9th, between the Singleton Club and the Ironclads,
Newcastle, resulting in an easy victory for tho visitors,
iu one innings Maitland Albion v. Belvidere, on the
9th, on tho Association Ground. Scores : M.A-C.O,
186 (Hammond 65, Barnes 49, Sefton 28, Griffiths 16;.
B O.C. Itl (Blair 38. Holden, not out, 53, a. Lindetuan
30, Sheridan 21). Tho cricket was very m. diocre.
Hammond played a good innings, bat gave sonr.o
chances. Tho Maitland bowling was fair Derwent
t. Rugby, Foro.it Bodge. Scores: D.C.C. 80; R C.O.
11 and 43 Why did Dennis play with the Our
Boys 0 C., instead of his cld club, the Croydon C.C. ?
Tho Bolvideros and Warwicks met iu the Domain
on Saturday. Scores: Belvidere, 138 (Sheridan 3>,
Spurway 26, S. Lindeman 23, J. Richardson 18. C.
Lindeman, not out, 16). The Warwicks lost two
wickets for 10, when time was called For the Thom-
son Junior Cnp, the St. Peter’s defeated the Herald
Club by 163 runs The Australian and Conqueror
Clubs commenced their match on Saturday. Scores :
Australian, 90 (W, Smedley 28, Haird 24, Richardson
13). Conqueror: Sis for 22 (Newman, not out, 11)
The conditions of the Association Junior Cup matches
are published, and the following constitute the Cop
Committee Messrs. S. Abb At, A. Blackmore, W. A.
Brodio, H. A. Holdeu, S. Kendall, and H. M’Lachlan.
Club professionals to play ; She: idau can therefore play
for tho Belvideres. Those contests should almost be as
interesting as those lor the Holdsworth.Qardyne Cup...
Croydon v. Waverley. Scores : Croydon 36. Wavarley
Sl......Alexandria v. Carthona, Scores: 36 each
National v. Glebe Strathmore. Scores: National 72;
Carroll (not out) 22, Dutton 16, Duncan 12. Glebe
Strathmore, 37; Kelly 11. 'ihe nationals have not
been beiten this season Cambridge v. Caxton. The
former scored 56; A. Buist 16. M’Clusky 15. Caxton,
35; Haigh 15, Shaw 10 Young OxJ[ord v. Ivanhoe.
Scores: Young Oxford 21, Ivanhoe 20 Thomson’s
Junior Challenge Cup : Young Oxford v. Perseverance.
Scores: Young Oxford Stand 41; Evans 24 Savill 16,
Ironside, not out, 22. Perseverance 15 end 32 Bal-
main Waratah v. Albion. Scores: Balmain Waratah
31; Marshall 16, Albion 21. Julian took six wickets
for 7 runs Parramatta Alfred v. Petersham ; 2nd
elevens. Scores : Parramatta Alfred 97, Petersham 53.
The Parramatta second have already met and defeated
the second elevens of the following clubs :—Warwick,
Carlton, Petersham, Orient, and Liverpool; a - sc a com-
bined fifteen from the Protestant Orphan School
The Newcastle and Tr nclad Clubs met on Saturday, at
Newcastle, whoa the former were at the wickets all the
afternoon, scoring 118, all ont Greenfield v. Iron
Duke, Botany. Scores: 0.C.0, 20 and 43. LB.C.C ,
126 (J Hinchcliffe, 33; J. Brown, 30; J. Breen, not
out, 34). Hinchcliffe and Rose, for tho latter club,
obtained 5 wickets for 9 runs each in the first innings.
Clio v. Windsor, on the Windsor ground, resulted
inadraw. Scores : C.C.P., 96 (Tindle, 21; Fewings,l7;
Abel, 12); W.C C.. 9 wickets for 49 Balmain Colling.
wood v. Young Princes, Balmain, was won by the
former by 11 runs Hero of Waterloo v. Redferu
Cambridge. Scores: H.W.C.C ,31 (C. Newbery 14);
R.C.C.C., 19 Beal, a Brisbane cricketer (not our own
Charley), tried to stop a ball that was driven with great
force to the off. His forefinger was almost split to tho
bone. He will not bowl for some time.
An interestin'? obituary notice of the late Bishop
O’Quinn, by Tyr-Owon, baa been issued at Brisbane.
Home, sweet Homebush. ©ne more chance.
A “fiver” down, and a note per week, confers an
eata'c. Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist will explain, .
With his usual excellence of taste and design,
the Colonial Architect arranged n display of the art
purchases at the Garden Pala o Some ofllcial ha« cast
them together like hides in a tannery.
“ Scots wha hae wi’ Wallace bled” and others
are invited to “bleed" again at the sale of Wallace*
town, Waverley, by Messrs. Mills, Pile, and Gilchrist.
This is an orthodox situation, as its views are correct—
of the ocean.
Though we don’t care t open an old sore, we’d
still just like to remark that Ulyett, who would not
meet the Australians when in England, is one of the
team that arrives by the ’Friscomail. It is to be hoped
that “the sons of convicts” will behave themselves on
this occasion If they don’t they may offend an English
gentleman. This is merely a professional remark.
The secretaries of the Bathurst Juvenile Exhi*
h'tion now watch the cables carefully. The C.M.G.-
ships were to be wired, they expected, last Wednesday.
“Wonder what’s up!" asked May bury of Crouch.
“The old lady’s on the Continent, I daresay,” was the
reply; “ but I suppose she’ll fix us and the other peerages
up next Cabinet meeting.”
The boat substitute for the present high-priced
meat (and far more wholesome) is Redgato’s Patent
Meal, or Food of Health. The Australian Cricketers
is the trade mark, none other genuine. Sold by all
grocers and storekeepers.—Ady,
“Bambini, where are you ? ” “lam here, dear
Duke.” “Where?" “At Hamburger Brothers and
Co., Importers, 375 Qeorge-street, opposite to the New
Arcade, who are retiring from business, and retailing
watches, clocks, gold and silver jewellery, electro-plate
ware, fancy goods, &3., at actual cost." Get price list,
and compare. Cheaper than all discount and ‘ ‘ as-
signed ” sales. Inspect and judge.—Adv.
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, U. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Maas., is now registered iu the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or hnl-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing o deniable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PAN?, Waltham, Musa.—Ah?.
2
November 19, 1881,
THE BULLETIN.


eat'
rcOTTPAE
—-rrSTYTTO r üBSSS
AIM
•§ I^*
V
L*"W R t S
LiSVr*
■r-w>
wm
mmm^sassasia iust
tiMtmiuc
■
ALARMING SALE OP BOOT
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BO
510 GEORGE STREET
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL :
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT C
with those you have been payin
MAKE NO MIST
This is the only Genuine Sale, a I
POR ONE MONTH O
DAMP COURSE! DAMP
WHEN building use CALLENDER and SONS' Pure Bitum
CHEAPER and MORE EFFECTIVE than S
DAMP RESISTING SOL
If yon have DAMP WALLS in yom horan. nae CALLENDER
dors them completely impervious to DAMPNESS. Can bo a
Particulars on Application to
R. B. BAYNES, Bell’s Cham
In the Assigned Estate of G. A.
JEWELLERY TO THE AMOU
IN order to dispose of the above Stock, we have made up the ui
found very cheap, and consist of the followi
[registered.]
TO PERSONS IN DIPPICI
the Mutual Trade Protection 1
cover your debts or obtain the best so
Address to the Secretary, C 5 Pitt-i
WANTED, SUBSCRIBERS
key Bulletin. W. Eowi
News Agent, and Stationer, Queenslai
Ha. abb
• BOOKSELLER AND S']
106 KINO STREET,
(FIVE DOOES FROM PITT SI
Every description of Plain and Fan<
lowest possible price (
tar A TRIAL SOLIC
S
AGENT for Melbourne AGE ai
YDNEY LIVE STOC
Having secured the services of M
LAND, well-known in Victoria and 1
Stock Sidesman, I bear leave to assur
all interested in the SALE of FAT or
and STATION PROPERTIES, that
shall be directed to this branch of tin
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite si
tical knowledge, attention, and sti
which have made my Wool and Prodi
a success, will entitle me to the com
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and
a week; allowances made on all Sto
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales 1
a week, or when required on days of si
Further information if applied for.
JC
MASON BIIOTi
14 & 16 Sp
Syd
Have always in S
to the TRADI
SALE BUYER
IRONMONGER!
GENERA
GLASS,
AI
EAE T H E
WINES, BEERS
and gi
BULK MEK
A gen
JOHN walk:
Old Highla
J. SORIN
Cog
J. T. G
Schnapps i
A. MELYIb
Edinbui gl
ANY JEWeLll’k\
4rl AD f T tf, o^
.y l\fChJ spe
WALTHAM ENGLISH, ANDIGENI
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED J.
Turret Clocks—simple, strike,
Spectacles, etc., of all _ 1
Plain figures—Low prio
\W_ H. PAL
w.
HOWARD Sill
LINE OF STEAMI
Leave SLEUTH’S WHARF, fo<
For MELBOURNE,
Every TUBS 1
For BRISBANE,
MARYBOROUGH,
and ROCK!
On TUBS!
FARES and FREIGHTS at Gra
BATES.
W. HOWARD skn
STEAM TO LONDON—C
1881.
The following Royal Mail Steam
the OBIENC STEAM NAVIGA
(LIMITED), and the PACIFIC
TION COM FA Y, will leave SYI
mentioned dates, for Melbourne, I
DON, via the SUEZ CANAL, callii
And the service will he mainta
steamers at intervals of a fortnight.
Saloon passengers homewards ma
at Suez, Port Said, and Naples, goh
steamer within a month; hut fnilint
subsequent steamer having room.
Fares, to London, 15 to 70 guinea l
8s in addition.
Passages from Loudon can be grai
For plans and full particulars, i
and CO., and ANDERSON, AND
Joint Managers of the line; or to t
General Manager in Am
O.
QRIENT LINE OP
PARCEL EXPEE
Special Arrangements have been
veyance of Parcels and small packag
Steamers to London at reduced rate
2s. 6d. per foot, or fraction of a fc
or 6d. per pound, or fraction of a
Packages will be received at this
issued, up to Noon at the day prior t
sailing. All freights payable in Sj
particulars, apply to
G. SKELTON YUILL,
Manager of Orient
2G7 Georgc-street, Sydney.
KNOWLEDGE IS P(
LATIN, FRENCH, AN!
TAU G H
THROUGH CORRE3PC
by
DR. RODWAY, M.A.
PRINCIPAL OF UNIYERSI
191 WILLIAM ST
SYDNEY.
tERMS, STRICTLY IN
TWO '2) GUINEAS FEE
Tinj? vapit ami r
3
THE BULLETIN.
jjov ember 19, 1881.


8
Business Announc
LLeqalJ
HORTER, FITZGERALD
SOLICITOR
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREE
and
MACQUARIE STREET,
Mr. Shorter, Notary ;
Legal. —Mr. t. m. 5
SOLICITOR, lias coi
practice of his profession, at
PITT-STREET, opposite
News Office.
Legal.—n. w. cooke, s<
3 Ground Floor, Wentworth
ADDRESS : 16 Sir J >hn Young’
Domain, Woolloomooloo.
G.
AND S. Pi
SAW MILLS AND TIM:
16 Erskine Stki
Every description of Foreign a
Doors. Sashes, Shingles, Palings,
Morhungs. Cases, Turnery. Ac., a*
p E. L A
Wholesale and Ei
PRODUCE HER
Corner
GEORGE AND QIPPS
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STOR!
18 Gcorgo-street West (late Pa
And
Darliughnrst Rood, near V
Pure Cape Barley, Feed an
P. R. LARK
Wholesale and Retail Wink an
778 and 780 GEORGE STE
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is ropleti
itook of the Choicest Brands of W
N.B,—Orders by post punctually
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hay
CENTRAL FURNISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31. an
Como and inspect our largo
FURNITURE at lowest prices in 1
WE EURTSII HOUSES o
from £lO to £lOOO, at tl
NISHING ARCADE. Nos. 22.
street.
CENTRAL FURNISHING
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, a
11. LEVY A CO. desire to call t
public to their larte and uinguifl
Household FURNITURE, at pr
petition. Every article marked in
carefully packou, and sent to all pt
A LA ROE ASSOR FMENI
the best makers— Errard,
time payment. CENTRAL FUIII
Nos. 29, 31, and 33, Park-street.
OTI 6 E
6 P R
THOMAS WEBB &
GLASS MANUf A<
and
IMPORTERS of EVERY DESCE
And EARTIIESIW
Beg to announce that they Lave
REMOVE
to
Public Compai
fJUIE AUSTRALIAN JOIN:
Paid-up Capital, £500,000, with p
£1,000,000. Reserve Pun
Directors :
Edward Lord, Esq, Chairman; 1
Esq.; W. A. Long, Eaq ; J
Esq.; Moses Moss, Esq.; .Wall
Geserai, Mahao
Viuccut Wanostrocbt
HEAD OFFICE: GEOb'GE S'l
City and Suburban branches: 1
Globe, Burwooi
London Office : 18 King Willi
BRANCHES IN NEW SOI
Albnry, Armidale, Ball! ur, I
Bourke, Bondnrra, CassilD, Con
bran, Coon.nnblo, Copeland North
Dubbo, Forbes, Glen Lines, Goull
full, Gulgoag, Hay, Hill End,
Kompsey, Lambton, Maclcaj',
Morpeth, Mudgee, Narnudera,
Parkes, Raymond Terrace, Rock!
ton, South Grafton, Tcmora, T
Prana, Wagga Wagga. Walls aid
Maitland, Wilcaunlo, Weodburu,
BRANCHES IN QUEi
Brisbane, Allora, Bowen, Charte
Gladstone, Gympiej Ipswich, Mai
Onvenswood, fiockhaiuptce, Stan
Tswnsville, Warwick.
Agents hr all the Australian Colo'
the World gen ora
’HE MERCANTILE BAN
ESTABLISHED
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF
Paid-up Capital,
Reserve Fund...
DIRECTORS
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K. 0.1
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Win. Bnsbt, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidloy Ring, M.I
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggio, Esq,
11. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGER;
P. A. A, Wils<
SECRETARY
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES
657 Qoorge-stroet Brickfield H
LONDON BANK!
The National Provincial Ban
London Office, 30, Groat
Director—Edward Chaj
Agent—Q. U. Alexam
This Bank transacts all usual B
Agency Business on the most favor
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances m
other nrodneo shipped to England
SCOTTISH IMPE R IA
-5 COMPANY,
CAPITAL «. m ... „
FIRE RISKS AT LOWE
NIXON & Ci
Chief Agents for N.
7 BRIDGE STREET Cl
Sab-Agents wanted in Town
CORNWALL FIRE AND ]
ANCE COMPAI
CAPITAL, £lOO,
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marino Risks Accepted by
iF you are asked to buy »
by “ The Hager Co * fcut rec
ng ou tLo “ Singe* tlyfltolu u ot
to Igntft advico towioao aLow
SINGER’S SEWING
ARE MADE ONI.I
The Singer Manufactur
Head Offices:
34 UNION SQUARK, NEW
Chief Office in Em
39 POSTER LANE,
Depot for New South
No. 1 DARLING S PORES, lIA
SYDNEY.
SINGER’S SEWING 3
HAVE
All the Latest Improi
SINGER'S SEWING 3
F4I
Larged Variety of 1
SINGER'S SEWING 3
P~B
Strength and Beauty o
SINGER’S SEWING 3
ro»
Embroidery, Braiding, ar
SINGER'S SEWING 3
FOR
Plaiting, Binding, and
SINGER'S SEWING 3
Kilting, Cording, and
Singer's Sowing Machines againsi
all the World’s Sh
FIRST PLACE KW
CAUTION! CAUTION!!
See that oar name and trade-mark
without which none ara
Ten per cent, discount
Sh. 6d. WEEKLY, S
From all Agents, an
THE COMPANY'S
• No. 1 DARLING 8T
HARBOUR STREET
jgINGER’S SEWING
TURNER & C
ARB TUB
RECOGNISED A
or TUB
CELEBRATED SINGER MANX]
TIME PAYMEN'
2s. fid. per week—2s. Cd. per week
And no interest cl
10 per cent, off for <
BEWARE OP IMIT
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER 4
the Only •• sing
TURNER A
Opposite
JOHNSTOf
SEWING MAORIS
EtAYMABKIT
Singers Sewing ,
s
i
N
Gr
E
R
Qhemints
and Dm
—ln our style ol
Vy sodden changes of torapoi
and sunshine often interminglee
it is no wonder that onr chil
relatives are so frequently tak
looted colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of B(
Syrup kept about your home
will profont serious sickness, a
and perhaps death, by the us
doses For curing Consumpti
Pneti-nonia, severe Coughs, Cr
of the Throat or Lurgs, its suci
derful, as your druggist wil
Syrup is now sold in every t
this continent. Sample bottl
regular size, 3s. Wholesale 1
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA I
was introduced into '
two years ago, where thousands
—and one year in Sydney j and sol
of Rheumatism have been cured
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long sta
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear A
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured 1
HEAD OFFIC:
89 WATERLOO-ROAD,
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STEE
S. W. GAMBLE, Pr
ELLIOTT BEOS., WIIOLESAL
STEEET, SYDN
MANZANITA PR
TEY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented
Thousands of people in Sydney 1
have been cured of Biliousness, ]
ness. Sick Headaches, and all con
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office : 89 WATEELOO :
and 107 CASTLEEEAGH STI
S. W. GAMBLE. Pr
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLI
pitt STEEET, SY
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER F
FOR
INDIQEST
AND
STOMACH COMFI
• # * They are also much recoram
tlve for Females, being safe, gen
their operation, leaving no dispo
and being free from any tendon
irritation in their action.
Solo Proprietor and Manufacturer
F. E. SLO
DISPENSING ESTABLISHME
OXFORD STREET
S. ABRAHAM’S PILI
THE GEEAT LIVEE
And successful substitute for (
Podophyllum, and all No
Famous its a Bestorative to Hea
Famous as an Invigorator of th<
Famous for the Cure of all Diso:
Stomaeh.
Most famous as the Only Ton!
i cold, and
most delicate of either sex,
take them..
Be Chrofnl not to got
IN BOXES, ONE S
Invented and Prepare
J. S. ABE./
At the Laborat
434 QEOEQE STREET
4
November 10, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


URURN DOWNS ESTATE,
GREAT OLE AKA NOE SALE, WITHOUT
RESERVE.
ATURDAY, 17th DECEMBER, ON THE
GROUND
B
YERY ALLOTMENT MU;T HE SOLD.
fill L'LE, TORRENS’. TERMS LIBERAL,
9 AS BEFORE,
Batt, rodd, AND PUiiVES, “
AUCTIONEERS.
rjio ADMIRERS OF AUSTRALIAN
■JL SCENERY.
COME WITH US OX SATURDAY, NOVEMBER
19, anti ADMIRE tho LOVELY VIEWS from the
FOREST ROAD ESTATE, lIUESTVILLE, Gannon's
Forest.
%* They OUT-RIVAL ALL DESCRIPTION.
BATT, RODD, and PUEVES.
(IALL FOR A PLAN OF THE FOREST ROAD
J ESTATE, Hiarstvillc. Come with us on SATUR-
DAY, NOVEMBER ID, by tho’Bus; buy at least one
allotment, aud, besides mating a REALLY GOOD
BARGAIN, you will secure a site rommanding some of
the most MAGNIFICENT VIEWS in the SOU fHERN
HEMISPHERE.
V COME ONE. COME ALL.
BATT, RODD, and PURVE3.
Tram. rail, and ’bus will soon pass
THE FOREST ROAD ESTATE, at HURST.
VILLE, Gannon’s Forest, and ENHANCE its present
GREAT VALUE ENORMOUSLY.
BATT, RODD, and TURVES,
88 Pitt-street.
LITHOS. OF THE FOREST ROAD ESTATE
ARE NOW READY.
CALL aud obtain one.
BATT, RODD, and PURVE3.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, ON THE
GROUND, “FOREST ROAD ESTATE,”
HURSTVILLE, GANNON’S FOREST,
BATT, RODD, and PURVBS.
JLLAW AREA RAILWAY.
The FOREST ROAD ESTATE is situate within 200
yards of the proposed NEW STATION, opposite D'O
BLUE POST INN, facing the ILLAWABRA ROAD,
bounded on one side by the CHURCH, and on tho
other side by the PUBLIC SCHOOL.
BATT, KODD, and TURVES,
SATURDAY. SATURDAY.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19,
ON THE GROUND,
At 3 30 p.m.,
•,» WITHOUT THE SLIGHTEST EE.EUVF, *,*
FOREST ROAD ESTATE,
lIURSTVILLE ESTATE, GANNON’S FOREST.
On the Surveyed lino of tho ILLAWARBA RAILWAY
FREE ’BUSES TO THE LAND.
COME ONE ! COME ALL ! !
BAIT, RODD, AND PURVES,
AUCTIONEERS.
CASH PRICE LIST OF WINES, ALES, AND
SPIRITS.
COLONIAL WINE.
RED.
Claret
Dalwood
Hermitage ..
Shiraz
Burgundy ..
Sweet Shiraz
Reisling
Dalwood
Hock
Madeira
Bonffier’s Fincau..
Brown Muscat
FOREIGN WINES.
Good Port ... 24s to 36s Od | Good Sherry 24s to 36a Od
SPIRITS.
Rum, Red Heart... 43s Od
Bum, Pres ton’s Old
Jamaica ... ... 33s Od
Rum, Lowndes’ Old
Jamaica 34s Od
per case.
Brandy in flasks, in
Cases of 2 doz...
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (large
. size)
Gin, Key, Case of
15 Bottles (med.
size)
Wolfe’s Schnapps
Casa
Hennessy’s
Brandy ... ...
Hennessy’s ***
Case Brandy ...
Good Pale French
Brandy
Good Dark French
Brandy
Walker’* Old
Highd. Whisky.. 46s Od
Kemp’s Scotch
Whisky
Burke’s **♦ Case
Whisky ... ...
Other Brands Irish
Whisky ... 37s to 45s Od
ALES AND STOUTS,
per doz.
Bulldog Ale, qts.... Us Od
59s Od
71s Od
45s Od
45s Od
42s Od
38s 6d
52s Od
46s Od
43s Od
4is Od
8s Od
11s Od
8s Oa
10s Od
6s 6d
9s 9d
per doz.
Boar’s Head Stout,
pints 6d 9d
Foster’s Stout, qts. 10s Pd
~ „ pints 7s 0
Pig Brand Stout,
quarts 10s 6d
Pig Brand Stout,
pints 7s 6d
Bulldog Ale, pints
Foster’s Ale, qts...
Foster’s Ale, pints.
Aitken’s Ale, qts...
Dryborough’s Ale,
pints
Boar’s Head Stout,
quarts
far Country Orders for Ales and Stouts must be for
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of one sort, otherwise
6d. per dozen extra will be charged.
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottles of Colonial Wine
sent on receipt of 15s. by Post Office Order or Stamps.
All Goods delivered carriage free to any address in
town or to the Wharves or Redferu Railway Station.
Terms—Prompt Nett Gash on giving order.
T. VIVIAN RAUCH, '
WINE & SPIRIT MERCHANT,
65 Pitt-street, Sydney.
T
HE PAINLESS CORN RELIEVER.
A Sure Belief, and in multitudes of cases a Certain
Cure for Corns.
Prepared only by John Clowes, Chemist, Gympie (sola
proprietor). Agents—Messrs. Elliott Bros. & Co. Syd-
ney and Brisbane; and sold by all patent medicine
vendors.
ASK FOE HANDBILLS.
s
MALL POX.
SMALL POX.
PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CUBE.
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHET is the best PRE-
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX. Price, Is. } from aU
Chemists.
WOMAN ITEMS.
A curious fact. Satan deprived Job of every-
thing except his wife.
A rich widow is the only second-hand article that
brings a first-class price.
It is stated that the Bareness Burdett-Coutts
will soon be obliged to go into retirement for a short
time.
Slight mistake.—“ Mr. and Mrs. request
tho favour of your presents at the wedding of their
daughter."
They Say that Queen Isabella’s favourite brand
f?f champagne is Miirnm. Wo believe Mumm is the
Word among teetotallers generally.
A certain gentleman must liavo been protid.of
his wife When he described her as very 41 beautiful,
dutiful, youthfu*, and an armful.*’
It is stated in one of the London society jour-
nals tliat the Princes B-nirice might hive married
King Alphoaso, had sho been willing to renounce her
faith,
JL cdrreSpondent asks us—why do we love P
Well, Speaking tor oufselves; we presume its from want
of experience. As for the fair sea—vre suppose its be-
cause they can't help it.
Lord Howton, one of the Beaconsfield executors,
has a charming and clover sister. Miss Corry, who lias
refused several suitors, and lives a great deal with her
bachelor brother, who is a nephew of the venerable
philanthropist. Lord Shaftesbury,
Tombstone poetry:
‘Tie sad to part from those we love
Front those for whom we did vainly tussle.
But we'll fondly meet in th(j sWhut subsequently;
If 1 don’t get lost in the shuffle.
There is an awful state of affairs in New Roch-
elle, whereatype-sottorhubstituted the word “ widows"
for " windows." The editor wrote i “ The window* of
the church need washing badly. They are too dirty for
any use, and are a disgrace to our village."
f The French ladies have taken to handling the
fibbOns At Paris, driving is a fashion; in the country,
it Is a ntaniaj d,t ilia seaside, and at watering.pla es, it
is all tliC rdgd. The lading tlrivd, by chdice; pduy
chaises, basket-carriages; or little village carts.
tA Maitland man kissed the hired girl tile other
y, "behind the kitchen door." When he retired
rs. Brown found & black hair on his cuff button ; but
BO near the colour of her own, that she suspected
nothing. Brown calls it a * hairbreadth - escape.
The Crown Princoffs of Qerthany la economical,
unpretending, and all that sort of thma, but not test*)
is barbaric. While In England, on a blazing hot day,
she took to a garden party at Holland House her three
young daughters, all clad in cardinal velvet and satin
gowns, with velvet hats and plumes "to match.
11 The Empress Envduie returns to England in
a few months, when her Loose at Farnborongh is ready
for her reception.” A paragraph of two linos and a
half devoted to ouo who was erstwhile the faires*,
gayest, and most graceful woman of the present cen-
tury—Empress of la belle Franco, hostess of the most
brilliant Cuirtln Europe, central figure in a crowd of
more than Oriental splendour and loveliness. * VaniUts
vamtatum.
Lady Florence Dixie, who went to tho Trans-
vaal os Correspondent of the London Moiinlrfo PbSr, is
(Hipping dpt With her husband), and cooking her own
fatidng. ftdt Idng dgH, a EdOr, wild lildafi latge bddsfcs
about his skill With tllß rifle, was challenged by her id
0 trial of skid. The Boer shot with n Martini-Henry
rifle, L*dy F - orenco with a Winchester, at bottles
S laced at a distance of two hundred lards. To the
slight of all the onlookers. Lady Florence hi* the bot-
tles <nie after the other as if fhey were elephants, and
the Boer wont away s'gually defeated, and with tho
t' at if nil Englishmen can’t shoot some
SdgUriiiVdiiiKii Had.
A journal some time ago, in an article oh ' ’ xlii
Development of Gvre«,” remarked; "If we could
imagine the wor’d carried on by women alone, one of
the first results of the extinction of man would unques-
ti-nably be the disappearance from it of almost all
the games and sports which now constitute so large a
part of its serious w r rk." In reply a lady writes; “ An-
other result of the condition iin rig'nod by the writer
would be the disir o of stimulants. Games are stlmu-
Imts j and while a wo nau sometimes enjoys a game, f 1.3
she occasionally takes a glass of wine, yet the fact re-
main*! that for tjm gtcrtt majority tipi sHpuilant is uns
BeaCssarv —that Is, nnemvod. MOu hsVe fbiV fesonfcCs
Oi pleasure within themselves."
A London paper says :—“ I adios ought to learn
to as much os their brothers or their cousins,
and when in the water they may bo privileged to w*ar
pretty costumes small and light enough to display
their graceful forms to advantage. But BolUhs<?a is
tho first English s'eksiab ibßdrfc IB fifithbbt? dttldpJtSt its
kitraetidns f ine|p gifls find msfriid women swimming
In thO 808, before ns many people as can be drawn
together by public announcement, for the champion-
thin. This may be muscular Christianity, but where is
feminine delicacy ?” Isn’t there just the least taste of
fclaptrap about this ? A lady of very sensitive modesty
Would no doubt shrink from Such a public exhibition,
blit the limith of modesty arc; after fell,.defined pretty
hefttly As HUioh by bilstoih aS by aHythlng elPe noW-a-
-flftyß. The lady Bwiibmera probably did not display
JW/e than professional beauties show in London draw-
big-rooms any night in the season. Whatever of “ tho
unman form divine ” was seen at the swimming con-
test, was, at any rate, seen at a distance; whereas, the
P.B 'b doli’t besltdto to pihibit their charms as close
Is any bho likes to view team.
Hera la a very awkward fcuatom—one against
which, we, as modest men, loudly raise our voices.
1 The crowning oxploitjsays a lady writing about certain
Weddmg festivities in Vermont, U P;), Was an observance
Of the Old yernlOut custOrri of tilckiilf nil this liapiiy
(Soilplh in bOd. llalf ju hOut nftht tiiOy had retired, Wo
MlfglarisOd thtlr bed chdirtbri' ana turned the light of
half a do*en lamps On them. We saw a sight which,
proved wOiiftn)s superior fortitude. I lie bridgegroam
turned red and whitr by turns, and was completely
flabliergavt-id; but tho brietc; thoiigjl her face l»y rosy
enough cty the snOwy Was quite sclf-rtdsse sed;
Sh» had dteSSOd hotsjilf in A dalilly iiew night-drrBs)
With shlrfinga OrOr tilt} shoulders and on the bishop
slfenvhS) ftrtd may have det ived her courage from a pre-
vious view of herself in the glass. Very lovely sh? wa«,
and very prettily careful to ke- p h-rsolf covered just
enough, but not so much as to hide the yoke of that
charming nightgown. The ceremony consisted of tucking
in the lodc'oths nil round, and so c’osoly and violently
that the new man and wife were well shaken together.
Thou wo left them."
Mrs. Scott-SidJons has been talking about
beautiful women. American Woiheil, she considers,
nnVe tar mofo boauty than English j Boston and Phila-
delphia, being especially favoured spots for its growth.
Jh Armrica. very young women are the most beautiful.
It is in the first flush of girlhood that one sees the most
handsome faces in the New World, The Canadian
women have greater elegance of manner than the
British who ore stiff in society when young. Aus-
tralian ladies are frequently pale and tall, freer in
manner than tho English, but not so free as their
American jistors—a happy medium. Mrs. Siddons
naively adds that beautiful faces are rare in England,
and that is why such a fuss is made whenever one is
found. Sho thinks that regularity of features is rather
tiresome, and causes a lack of expression. “ Miss
Neilson,” she says, "hadnot a satisfactory face. Mrs.
Langtry is one of our irregular-featnrad beauties, and,
m usual with them, ahe has a great deal of expression,
and a moat mobile countenance, which, with blue eyes,
gives her a most ingenuous expression. Of handsome
women that I have seen, by far the loveliest is the
Countess of Lonsdale. She is queen-like in her style,
possesses symmetry of form, and has regular features,
yet uot stony. The Princess ef Wales is exceedingly
like her pictures, and is wouderfidlr young-locking.
She is a little deaf, and her mobility in trying to catch
everything makes her interesting. There is a charming
complaisance about her." Being beautiful may not.
Perhaps, moke one a judge of beauty, but Mrs. Soett-
Siddons’* varied experience in all parto'of the world
V°nld giv« her every idea of what a beautiful woman
**• As to Mrs. Siddons herself, opinions may differ as to
whether she is beautiful or not, but everyone will
admit that she is decidedly prepossessing as well as
gracefn', and one of tho most lady-like exponents of
the drama that ever visited Sydney.
We have not seen any result from Mr. Windeyer’a
motion for the establishment of High Schools for Girls.
Meanwhile, the University people, showing a regard for
general high education Which they hare not heretofore
been distinguished for, have thrown the institution on
Grose Farm open to women. That this Will effect a
change in female education is probable, and highly
desirable. It roust be confessed that tho higher ednea-
tion of girls is to a groat extent superficial, and to that
extent useless and expensive, as it is now managed in
Sydney. There would be such an impetus given to what
can truly ha Called the highest education of women V>y
the establishment of a High School on the lines of our
excellent Mechanics’ Institute as would not be achieved
by fifty Uni verities with every door of them all standing
open to the admission of tho other sex. Making the
holidays, Unlike the oft quoted celestial visits, short and
noi far between, the fees reasonable, and the hours of
Work moderate, such an institution Would be a great
betop, arid, Well managed (educationally as Wol! as fman-
dlallyjl, becChfe ft success. The course might take la
chemistry, physic's, aiid phvSiology, ■ French, German,
aiid Latifl, a feW boots off .Euclid, as well as Cookery,
domestic economy, nludrt, ftad drawing. Idle term
allowed might bo three years, nt!'i be divided thug:—
First year, Euclid, cookery, music, drawing, French and
German; second year, the»o subjects advanced, with
Latin, and tho science of domestic economy; third year,
all these subjects advanced. A gymnasium should be
in every girls* school; physically the pupils thus would
be gainers, and intellectually no losers. The division of
subjects must be determined by practical educators.
The above la Offered as a hint. It is, of course, presumed
that tho girls have deea grounded in the Public School
curriculum. At the end of the tefm, I fits girls should be
expected to pass a pretty still examination, aiid gain
certificates according to place in the lists. As a
stimulus to the studious, appointments to tho teaching
staff of the colony might be made from these having
passed creditably, to the advantage of all concerned.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Mr. Gr nwood is pestered by anonymous letfcof*
writers, who as ail him with nil sor s of scurrility for
the Loan's sate.
The authors of “ The Sweet By-and-Bye,” Dr.
3. F. Bonnett and J, P. Webster, w.ro both pro-
nounced free-thinkers,
A very p'reity afid.riUtaKUte flower service was
hold at the Wesleyan Church, Paddington, Rjiuday last.
Tn the course of his address, the Ref. Hr. \T
that preaching was the hardest w*rk a man coiild at#.
The stall at Worcester (England) is in Mr.
31adatone's gift, and it is thought that the Rev John
ikley will very likely receive it. He is a Liberal
o'orgyraah, vVitn G£oad .and High Church proclivities
almost equally developed!
At Townsville, at the beginning o* this month,
the ministers of the different religious bodies informs'!
their congregations they would hold service every other
night uetil after the 15th November, in view of the
prophecy of the world coming to an end. Fact!
In a sermon lately, the Rev. W. J. K. Pidding-
ton, at Tntnworth, speaking of the Weekly Advocate,
said :—“ It is an excellent paper of the kind, but has a
bitter and unaccountable cm zo against the Church of
England 1" So had the Rov. Pid. one time ; but things
have changed since then.
Says the Jewish Chronicle '" Judaism
Can Welcome Without reserve all the truths that »ci-
ence cau prove, and need only claim too
fight of diligent inquiry before acceptance, a right
tfhich is by iio pleats iiidongrtsoits with the true
method o'f scientific ilKjditJ*.
Bishop Staunton, of N. Queensland, 1-Jolfs after
his people. A ship-load of immigrants, on landing the
other day, found a tea spread for them, and the Bishop
charged with a lirst-rato discourse on their duties and
prospects iu their now homo. Tet we believe the
Bishop is not anything like eamoit about a real Hell
arid a personal Devil.
Professor TjiMaP li£*S nOw a chance to test his
prayer.gaugo practically ilt & ffiefolf no Sinai expense.
The Rev. Mr. Marshal', a coloured diliue t’f -Jlarfio
County, Tennessee, announces his readiness to pray for
anything or anybody for the ridiculously trifling sura
of 2s 6d’a prayer. No doubt wholesale orders would bo
tilled at a suitable reduction.
The R, C. School at Wagga, from which, like
all Denominational school?. State aid will bo withdrawn
at the end df the present year, 1» to.receive from
Private soiirces larger sflta than it derived from the
Gtovefnmeilt: Several gentlemen tmuertako to eputn-
bnto annually in ttirii This Js tiiJS of nro-
cednro wc are informed that Will be aobptcd to keep
open every F. C. school in the colony.
Five hunched and fifty British, Swiss and
German Mormon converts sailed from Liverpool on
the 3rd Sept, fnf PT«w York. Two hundred of these
aio li-dm the Continent. DuHug the.preso rt summer
two thousand Mortntihs, haVe left Liverpool for Salt
Lake City. Bishop Taylor ali.l Elder Ctohou Will be
in high glee over the success of their tudissafieS in
Europe. Yet all these people had read the Bible.
Certain persons at Romo having charged the
late Bishon O’Quinn, of Brisbane, and the Irish priests
of Queensland, of various offences, including accusa-
tions 8t drunkenness, debauchery, ill-treatment of
Italian priests, fisglect of episcopa and priestly func-
tions omhsion to prontiUtotly teach certain doctrines
and dogmas-notably that of Papal infaMllity-dnd of
annropnating the funds of the Church, and especially
of the cathedral, for the purpose of personal pleasure,
and concluding with a final charge against the late
tlUhmi of having mortgaged the churcho-, convents,
and properties of the Church for, *33,000. which sum
had been spent on ope ttip to fiiwcrpe. Meetings of
Irish Catholics have been hold at Ipswich and Uympie
strongly repudiating those allegations.
“ Tho converted Jew, it is well known, writes
the SSdf Sst Ag, is the caviare of the feast annually spread
on the Mission Boards of the Churches. His price has
lately teen quoted at £lOOl os. Id. j aM there have
been periods of great sijatcity, when an ecclesiastical
body iu Scotland has been known tq spend over £lOOO
fob a single specimen. Missionaries Have teen sent out
to atlilb fqr This shy fish iu the most likidy loca i-
ties; cut while .thby draw their salaries with piinotu-
alitv thev havespften had to eOntdilt t’urarfelves with a
• rise’’as the solo result of their year’s labours. -Even
when a genuine Israelite is safely hooked and brought
to bank it frequently happens that ho is an undeveloped
specimen, iu poor condition, hardly worth, indeed, the
noiso that is made over the capture; and ho has to bo
constantly watched, in case, having swallowed the bait,
he should wriggle back among his kindred.”
The London correspondent of the Queens-
tAkfiEit says that the ‘•Salvation Army” will light
upon troublous times If it docs not take care. Tho
shrewd schemer who runs tho speculation, and who
may bo backed against all comers for knowing hot# to
work the oracle, should be more moderate in his
demands, and more meek iu his management, else by
the one he will disgust the public, who have hitherto
tolerated his agents, while by tho other he will rouse
the active hostility of the street population. At a
conference—another conference, you will observe !—at
Exeter Hal), two days ago, he capped bis usual appeal
for cash by Mating that a gent leman had just given him
a gold watch and chain, and by tolling his audience
that they could not pat their watches-'f they were
go'd—to hotter use than by hauding them up to him.
The response was silence, but it was a serious appeal on
tho ” general’s ” part nevertheless. Then tho
people have been making too frequent appearances in
the Police Courts. The occasional appearance of
‘‘officers” in this army as offenders—such as the soi-
disont “captain” recently sent to prison with tho
magisterial consolation that he was a olasphemous,
hypocritical, abandoned scounarsl, or the female
“ captain,” who tell in love with aho corporal, and
took to drink through unrequiteddove—is a misfortune
that may happen to any similarly constituted body;
hut tho continual prosecutions instituted by the
“ army ” authorities against men and boys, who are
said to interfere with the processions, are a distinct
reversal of the recommended practice of turning the
unsmit.ten oheek for an encore.
At the flower service at St. Mark’s, last Sunday
afternoon, the church was very full, and the display of
flowers magnificent. Darling Point is famous for its
gardens, now in full bloom, and tho choicest fl wor?
were sent up on this occasion in profusion, not in
hnxehes merely, but in baskettful. The Rev. T.
Koromis preached on the words —“ My beloved, is gone
into his garden to gather lilies.” The address was fn I
of rich imagery, and poetical affusions. Flowery called
by Longfellow “the stars of earth," were proofs of the
Creator’s love, for He who cared for them wool 1 care
more for us. Their very appearance bespoke the j>v of
existonee, and Wordsworth said : “ It is my faith t! at
every flower enjoys the air it breathes.” In their
growth, Mootr, and deca' - , flowers wore symbolic of
human life, and at every moment conveyed a signifi
canoe, or taught a las-ou. They taught ui hope, be-
cause our lives expanded into fuller perfection and
sweetness, just as the flowers did; and gratitude, fir
tho flowers repaid in nsponsivo beauty the kindly iu-
floenoo of sun and shower; apd their decay at last
taught ns of our inevitable return to the earth whence
we came. Children had a natural love for flowers: the
maiden choso them for her fairest adornment, the bride
was bedecked with them; they were sett «s a blostiny—
few knew how groat—to tho weary invalid ; they were
laid on the breast nad brow of tho beloved dead, and
finally they beautified tho grave—fit emblems of a
resurrection in the spring time of eternity. At the
eloie of the address, while the voluntary was bang
played, all the flower-bearers carried thtir bunches up
the aisles to the altar, where they wore received by the
Choristers. They made a splendid show, and numbers
went to look at them after the service. Suhsiqu ntly
they were sent to the various charitable institutions.
THE KOOKABURRA.
’fhe itot battling suit gives one a surf fit of the
seashore.
The watermelon is Ireland’s national emblem.
Ifc has the green above the red.
Don’t judge of a man’s character by the
umbrella he carries. It may not be his.
A collector in this city has the following pasted
dp in his otfloe as a motto : “ Never put off until to-
morrow what can be dnnmd to-day I”
When the Old Testament is revised and moder-
nized it will probably state that Adam, after eating the
apple, received notice that his resignation would be
accepted.
Lynch-law in America is now described thus : —
*'A convention of six ) roperty-holders invito the man
to jump from a new pine platform into the sweet sub-
sequently."
" ftoW, Pantmy, hare you read the story of
Joseph f" 11 01)i yCs, unde." “Well, then, what
wrong did they do When they Bold their brother ? *’
“ They sold him too cheap,"
Little Johnny wont to view
The circus and the flip-ilap flippers ;
Johnny tried to flip-flap, too —
jfchV he Wears the golden slippers.
While thev tnfufld these things at will
In the air or anywhere#*
Johnny turned one higher still,
Turned clean up the golden stairs.
A nice old lady, upon returning from church
last Sunday, said to her daughter : “ I wish they would
have communion oftcuer; I think the wine does my
imide a groat deal of good."
A poet recently sent a song entitled “ What
Shall My Love Wear 1” to nn editor. The latlcr re-
garded the question wholly in its moral aspect, and sat
down and wrote a kind but firm article recommending
her to wear clothes.
A Poem of the Period :—
My Johnnie said that although
lie really would like to gough
To sea in an ark,
As a sort of ft lark,
lie should want a steamer to lough.
Put it worried his mother scugh,
That he at homo did rough
In the quiet bay
J?ot a mile away,
lit the' boat with his sister Jough.
Billy’s little sister had fallen and hurt her nose,
and she cried a great deal or«r it 11 earing bis mother
toll her to be careful lest she Slight spoil it next time,
he said : “ What's the good of a nose to her ? She
never blows it.”
“ Because one is well and healthy, and the other
is hell and wealthy.” Tha conundrum which belongs to
the above answer, says Bill Nyc, has evaded us for three
weeks, and wo are utterly worn out chasing it through
apace, with the thermometer at 109 in the shade. It is
still at large.
EHYME3 OP THE DAY.
Th r3 was an iE itheto from Fall Mall,
Who on a banana peel fall.
He rose with a sigh;
Wiped the sand from his eigh.
And paiatively murmured, " Oh, Hall.”
The bride WftS Isd up the broad aisle
Got up in the most killing stalsle.
When asked if she’d bd
A true wife to he
She promptly replied “ I should smaisle.
A young lady sat on the quay,
AS plgpcr as proper could buay,
Whhh ft current of air
Carried oil HtT track hair.
She only said, •• Good grftcloda umay."
Aiflefigsn "Waltham Watches, awarded two first
prizes Melbtftttim International Exhibition, 680.
Higher awards than any exhibitors of watches received
—Ad V.
It is refreshing to a strange?, en route to the
Brisbane Botanic Gardens, to Bunjan-like run the
gauntlet along a street teeming with bin—a veritable
Valley of th* Shadow of Death—till ho reaches the
haven of pure air, flowers, and quietude.
Use Jannasch’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
game flSh, milt, & c., sweet daring the hottest weather,
bv shoedy and simple process; no deleterious chemical
used. To bS had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for oannrtsch’s Conserve Salt.— Advt.
Brisbane has long had its Salvation Army— an
army which has resolutely stood its ground in spite of
the attacks of larrikins. These same attacks assume
curious forms at times. On one occasion two bottles
containing a liquid of ten thousand stench-power were
hurled at the foot of the standard which is ever raised
on high. The shriek of the presiding priestess was
stilled, and for a good ten minutes she and her followers
Clang to their noses for dear life. The crowd lied in
disiflay before the blast.
It ia useful to know the derivation of words’
Both ■* cocoa " and “ chocolate ” are of Mexican origin
The word “ chocolate ” is derived from “ chocolatl,
the sound produced by the primitive stones used to
bruise and mix the cocoa with the sugar; whereas
“cocoa" is the name under which the unadulterated
beans Of the “ theobroma cacao ” of Linnaeus are im-
ported into England. Those who wish for cocoa at so-
lutely pure, should ask for the Cocoa Essence originally
prepared by Cadbury Brothers.—Adv.
: The Cabinet of Sir Henry Parkes deserve the
thanks of this community for various acts and measures
by them performed ; but there are few more, deserving
I the acknowledgment of the mercantile community and
shipping interest generally, than the one referred to in
the last issue of the Cumberland Independent re-
specting the establishment of a Branch Post Office in
Bridge-street. Should Mr. S. C. Brown accede to this
arrangement, and also introduce the penny postage for
i 0 z. letters, his individual shaie of the credit attaching
to the present Ministry will be enviable,
“ I will advertise thea ” Kiohmond Thatoher
la; prepared to provide startling, interesting, and
amorous advertising paragraphs for insertion in The
Bulletin. Tradesmen wishing to increase their hnsi*
nesses, address or apply to Kichmohd ThaIoheb,
Bulletin Hotel.—An v.
5
THE BULLETIN.
November 19, 1881.


rjl HEA T R E ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer.. Mr. Q. L. Goodman.
THIS EVENING
PIRATES OF PENZANCE.
Iq Preparation
Gilbert and Sullivan’s NewiEsthetic Opera
PATIENCE.
Admission— ss, 3s, 2s, Is. Doors open at 7 15, com-
mence at 8.
QPEEA HOUSE.
Role Lessee and Manager Mr. W. J. Wilson.
Stage Manager Mr. E, B. Boothman.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING, November 17,
and until further notice.
Fourth time of the successful drama
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Miss UNCLE Miss
MAGGIE OLIVER TOM’S MAGGIE OLIVER
as TOPSY CABIN. as TOPSY.
and
JACKSON’S
COLOURED TROUPE OSJ JUBILEE SINGERS.
Mr. E.B. BOOTHMAN as GEORGE HAREIi.
Mr. C. LEWIS as UNCLE TOM.
Mrs. E. HOLLOWAY as CARSY.
Miss LESLIE as ST. CLAIR.
Miss MILLIE COLLIER as ELIZA.
Little ETTIE SHERWOOD as EVA.
New Scenery by W. J. Wilson.
Admission— sj, 3s. 2s, and Is.
¥ Box Plan at A. Huenerbein’s music store, George,
street.
Tickets for all parts at Johnston's, tobacconist, next
stall entrance.
SEE!! BEHOLD!!!
STILL TO THE FRONT.
WILSON’S GREAT WORLD CIRCUS,
Acknowledged by everybody, absolutely and beyond
all question, the VERY BEST and
MOST TALENTED COMP AN T EVER SEEN.
THE ONLY MODERN CIRCUS
Presenting Actual, Effective, and Original Novelties.
The People, the Profession, and the entire Sydney
UNANIMOUS IN GENEROUS PRAISE.
A RECEPTION FIT FOE AN EMPEROR.
The immense audiences that have nightly filled the
vast auditorium,
TRIPLY ENCORED EVERY INDIVIDUAL ACT,
And the excruciating antics of our Company of Clowns
was greeted with PEAL UPON PEAL OF
TREMENDOUS
REPEATED APPLAUSE AND CHEERS.
TWO GRAND CHANGES OP PROGRAMME
EVERY WEEK,
THE POPULAR AFTERNOON RESORT.
THE MATINEES—
WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS,
at 2.30 r.M,
The performances of which are equal in every respect to
that given in the evenings.
LOOK OUT FOE OUR GRAND STEEPLECHASE
NEXT WEEK.
rjl OWN HALL, GLEBE,
GLEBE AMATEUR MINSTREL CLUB
SECOND PERFORMANCE WILL BE GIVEN
(Under the patronage of the the Mayor and Aldermen
of the Glebe)
ON MONDAY, 218 T NOVEMBER, 1881.
Tickets—Front scats, 2s. j back seats, Is.
Doors open at 7.80, commencing at 8.
G. M’DIARMID, Hon. Sec.
ALL.
~yr I C T O R I A H
CABTLEEEAGH-STREET,
(Near King-street, close to Tramway and Omnibus.)
TO LET NIGHTLY, ON TEEM, or LONG LEASE,
for
CONCERTS or OTHER ENTERTAINMENTS.
The above Hall has Seating Accomodation for SOO
people, is WELL VENTILATED, and Fashionably
Decorated. Stage 28ft. by 30ft., with NEW SCENES,
WINGS, &c., and is in all respects equal to the Hall of
the School of Art?, which it now supersedes.
Half-price charged for Charitable Purposes.
For Terms, apply to
J. F. SCHOLEB,
107 Castlereagh street.
fTHEATRE ROYAL, GRAFTON
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT.
Will seat soveu or eight hundred people, and lit up
with Gas; lately paironi-od by the South Opera Troupe.
Terms moderate. Apply to
W. ATTWATER.
Proprietor.
MR. AND MRS. EDWIN PALMER
(LEADING OLD MAN AND WOMAN.)
Another great success as
US. AND MRS. MOLE.
Open at Brisbane, Oct. 10.
11TR. and MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
ZULU WAR,
ADDRESS:
Hobart, till November 16.
New Zealand to follow
riRAND INTERNATIONAL
CRICKET MATCH.
Under the patronage and in the presence of His Excel-
lency the Governor.
On the Parramatta Alfred Cricket Ground.
WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY,
7th and Bth December,
Commencing each day at 13 o’clock.
Admission ; —One shilling; Stand, two shillings,
W. A, BRODIE > T • .
A. HAYES j Joint Hon Sees*
JJ ONDI BEACH, BONDI,
BONDI PACIFIC PAVILION,
Open every SATURDAY AFTERNOON from 2to 6
o’clock, for DANCING.
The finest Pavilion in the Southern Hemisphere.
G. Bailey’s Excelsior Brass Band and efficient M.C.
in attendance.
Admittance, 25.) Ladies free.
A FIRST-CLASS BILLIARD TABLE.
The finest double SKITTLE ALLEY in the Colonies.
J. HEINZ, Proprietor.
N,B.~Open for engagement for Picnic parties.
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTILITY TOGETHER!
T'ST’HFN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or what can resist them ? All three are
1 ■ the ruling principles at the
PALACE EMPORIUM.
HAYMARKET (ONLY).
ANTHONY HORDRNAND SONS
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES as proof both positive and certain of
the soundness of those principles upon which their business is based. The people in all ranks of
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMAEKET,
SYDNEY, aa the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We are now showing daily
OUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SUMMER GOODS.
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You may profitably spend a few moments
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A VISIT to the PALACE EMPORIUM
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an immense assortment at Is 6d, Is 8d.
and Is lOd per yard. Of the truly splendid JAUBERT GEOS GRAIN SILK
there are 2000 yards at 2s per yard ; 2200 at 2s 3d; 10 pieces at 2s 6d per yard ;
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3 cases, the prices ranging from 3s 6d to
10s6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GROS GRAIN, known as BONNET’S
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s 6d, 4s 3d, 5s, 6s 3d, up to 12s 6d. Our
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are beauty itself. Once see them, and
it will be long before you forget them. There is COLOURED SATIN ; also,
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 22d per yard. There is every shade.
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH BEIGE, all wool, all shades, 7£d a
yard. There is the fashionable SARATOGA COSTUME CLOTH, at 9d.
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, remarkably cheap and good; and there
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT, turning out
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly and yet carefully.
There are CALICOES in all makes and at low prices. There is DIMITY
FIGURED from 5^d; TABLE DAMASK from Is 4d; LINEN DIAPER at
all prices, and COTTON DIAPER atCd; GREY SHEETING from up to
la 3d; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ranging from 7*d to ls74d; and Twill
from lOd up to Is 9d. There are TURKISH TOWELS. 6id each; and
HONEYCOMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED, 5s 9d; PRINTED, from 4s lid ;
and the “RENOWNED VELVET PILE,” 21s, may be obtained.
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The goods are either button, elastic, or
laced. They are durable and fashionable. You may get anything here, from
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LADY’S COURT SHOE.
There are 330 beautiful DOLMANS and JACKETS. There are 300 superb
COSTUMES. There is every sort of shape in STRAW HATS and BONNETS.
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sight iu itself.
There are RIBBONS, all shades, all colours, all prices. There is LACE,
Spanish, Cream, Gold, REAL BRETONNE, &c. The PALACE KID
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innumerable.
There is a continuous stream of Customers for our SUITS for Youths and
Boys, and for our well-known cheap and fashionable TROUSERS, VESTS,
SUITS, SHIRTS, HATS, CAPS, COLLARS, SCARFS, and NECKTIES
for men.
And the great point to be observed is this, that wo have ONLY ONE
address, and NO BRANCHES whatever, our card of business being simply
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASH-
MERE, BEIGE, &c.
DRESSMAKING.
MANCHESTER
GOODS.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
LADIES & CHILDREN
MANTLES, COS-
TUMES, MILLI-
NER V, &0.
••FANCY" GOODS.
YOUTHS’ and MEN’S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
ONLY ONE ADDRES.3
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
THE PALACE EMPORIUM,
HAYMAIUE T,
(ONLY,)
SYDNEY.
Mark.
Trade
KEROSENE 150' TEST WATER WHITE.
THIS VliBY SDTEEIOE
AMERICAN OIL
IS NOT EXCELLED
For Safety, Purity, and Brilliancy in Burning 1 .
NO SMOKE OE SMELL.
It ia packed in IMPROVED TINS (ensuring safety in carriage), with Patent Screw Faucet
Nozzles, ot which the undersigned are the Solo Importers. Bei«~ refined and
t0 , tl ? cir ? r< ?. er ’ a L T ‘ d ° very tin guaranteed, this oil should be tried by
EVERYONE who desires to have his Kerosene Lamps afford
A GOOD LIGHT.
10 sr ot
E. LASSETTER AND CO.,
(LIMITED),
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OP GOOD PUEE TEA'-
We beg to draw your
PARTICULAR ATTENTION
to the
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY’S
PACKET TEAS,
Packedjin pounds and hall-pounds r
ASIATIC MIXTURE,
2s. and 2s. 6d, per lb,
PUEE INDIAN TEA,
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
PURE CEYLON TEA, 1
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
PUEE JAVA TEA, 1
2s. 6d. and 3s. per lb.
Special Quotations given to Wholesale Purchasers.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
ASIATIC TEA COMPANY,
279 PITT STREET (next School of Arts),
SYDNEY.
University college
Affilla ted to Trim CoU., London.
CHAMBERS ; 191 WILLIAM STREET, SYDNEY.
Principal :
Dr. EODWAY, M.A., E.E.S L. (Lon.)
pcolmy 11 CLASSES ONLY are conducted by Dr.
EODWAY, and the number of students in each class is
stnetly limited to TEN, so that he may give to each
gentleman that individual attention whieh will alone
secure success. Dr. Eodway’s system is easy and effi-
guarantees to pass every candidate ho
sends to the University—Law, Civil Service, and all
Public Examinations.
FEES: Per term, in advance, for each class ... £1 As
Diplomas of Merit and Medals of Honor will be
awarded upon the conclusion of each term.
UN Dpf K Ronw C A ( v jLEGE * 191 William-street, Sydney,
DR. EODWAY ... PRINCIPAL.
NEW PAPER & WOOL FELT.
FELT?
KEEP YOUR HOUSES COOL
For lining iron and slate roofs, a ■
perfect non-conductor of heat, cool in >
' . SUDm J er > warm in winter, and is almost l
i inc jomLustiblo. For laying under carpets, I
makes carpets feel softer and thicker, and
wear twice as long. For covering steam,
pipes and boilers, prevents loss of heat • 1
\ at s f vin g «/ fuel; apply several layers'
i : he i chca ;P est felt m the world. Manu-
‘ featured at the Paper Works, Liver-
k P®ol* &old by all Ironmongers,
Warehousemen & Storekeepers
Cv Price, 4Jd&6d per yd,
v 30 &40 inches wide,
any length.
...
Wholesale at Paper Mills Store,
36 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 13|
wines
+W aud Co -,? nvite . buyers to book orders to
their Christmas supplies without delay. Address-
wWoNLT Bank * Titt-street. HIGH CLASI
G lF wT.,°# ?EALING.-Mr. Milner Stephen
w i Heal the Afflicted Poor (limited to 50) o'
Wediiegday, theillh December, at the National Hali
vitV^riv«?f«; 8 ?- ree i t - The p «“ Public aro ir
See. 1 ’ 1 a t Patients received daily, hi. F, Allttion
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name n or nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed.]
“ J.S.” Wollongong: We would insert your
item, wore it not so long after the event. Glad to
lioarfrom you another time, but please bo prompt, in
the meantime, let us hint that i£ yon call your local
belles “dowdy,” you are likely to meet grief and sor-
row “ Junius ” : We’ve got the sun and moon ; send
us a few stars if youcaa “Hopeful” (Wollongong):
Anived too late for last week, and is now, of ccnrse,
stale. However, write again "IC U. ; The sheep
story is venerable. Moral Agriculturalist :If you
wish to notify to the world your liberality aover.
rising columns are at yonr service ‘ A.G C. :
Dangerous "W.P.T.”: “The Apostate” is grossly
libollossand nuj ustly abusive. Send it to the Holy Howl
...“ r. U. Jones" (Granville): Thanks. Hardly suitable.
“Sdverpen”: Should arrive on Saturday precod ing pub-
lication, but can ho used on a pinch, up to Tuesday.
“Lynceus”: Thanks, very welcome. “ Uncle (Bris-
bane) : We overlooked yours last week by sheer mis-
chance “Nemo” (Parramatta) : If your Mend
wants to advertise his tobacco, he can do so without
troubling you. Our terms are ss. an inch. Yonr items
•wo, this time, not up to our standard. Send them to the
Pith and Point column of the Echo. Were wo to print
them, the result would he an editorial fnneral, largely
attended by weeping subscribers. Try again, and when
you have au idea, let us know. We are always open to
chronicle startling or uncommon circumstances .........
“T. KG.” (Paddington): Thanks. Famished else-
where. Glad to hear from you again. “ Port Mac-
quarie" i Represent the facts yourself to the A.M.P.A.;
we can’t risk just now £5OOO "Wm. C n’
(Uookhampton): Yonr Sydney item is not cor-
root. The other ones are rather feeble, but
w 3 will try to put a civilized frock upon them. Try
again “C.H.H. Capertreo”: Address W. H. Traill,
and mark the envelope “ private.”......*' J H.": Better
let the matter drop “ Thickhead _ : Thanks ; the
town will stand a few shafts “Junius” : Extremely
welcome. Wc shnll uso it ** Alma ** (Glebe): No;
there is also a difference in the fee of three guineas;
the Registrar will give yon any other information, as
the subjects are changed every year "John S.
(Penrith): Thanks “ Chas. R.” (Launceston): Each
of the little personal items you send would interest
probably about half-a-dozen people. Wo want to flu
our paper with what will only interest millions
" 8.H.L.”: Poem on Sappho contains ideas, but is too
faulty for type at present. Will fix it np, if possible...
“ G. 8.” : Are making inquiries “Pumus”: Yes,
remember you very “ well and favourably,” as the auc-
tioneers say. Shall always be glad to hear from you.
. ..“ Homo ” : Thanks for your kindly letter. We are
conscious of the defect yea mention, and no effort
towards improvement shall bo spared “E.W.M.” :
First-class. Vide Brief Mention. Keep it np
“ Tramduck ” : Send us a line, wherever you go
“ XX” : Rot “A. 8.”: You're a very clever fellow;
perhaps you are a good hand, teo, at splitting shingles...
“Amy”: Thanks: nice little items of news
“P.T.” ; Rather personal, and of only limited interest
wild Bee ” : We have not the remotest idea how
you could tame wild bees ; wo believe, however, there’s
sugar in it “Critic”: You may be perfectly cor-
rect. £41,000 was borrowed from the Bank to declare a
dividend on that Queensland copper mine scrip—but
this fact in no way lessons the culpability of the Mil-
burn Creek people “L.8.C.": Thief; you claim as
your own the product of another man’s brain ; yon are
not even a respectable thief. Your original poetry is
the property of a dead man’s child “T.T.": WiU
touch up and use “Brand”: Wo wonder how he
continues in the pulpit. If the churchwardens are as
had, that’s no reason why the people should be insulted
with his abominable conduct and presence. There's
something hanging to what you’ve sent u»—something
like £10,003 “Old Snbscriber”: Thanks; will look
into it..!...“H.H.M.”: You often, doubtless, hear of
good things out there “ Pete ": Don’t; it’s no con-
cern to the dead, and certainly not to the living, that
“Oldßesident” should be interred in a coffin made
from pine cases “Dowling-street”: No interest;
poppies are everywhere “F.P.8.": Probably next
week “J.S.H.”: Thanks; anytime “JEW.”;
There’s a mail several times a week from your place
“T.W.” Sneak! “W.J.M.”: Arrived Tuesday—day
too late “ H.8.H.”: Right “E.A.M.”: Getting
into right stylo “Hopeful”: Write again ; you hold
it “H.S.”: Capital “Dr. N.”; Thanks “Ob-
nsrvor”: Very true, and very dull. Nothing of the
kind you apprehend has come to hand “8.F.”:
These are just your initials. Try the Maitland papers
next with your drivel “H.N.”: Wouldn’t touch it
under at least £5OOO. Our lawyer wouldn’t pass it on
any account. Send it to the Hera1d....,..* 1 Aaron”:
Will be attended to *W.M.” and “Junius”; Will
examine at leisure “ Boss” (Balala): Moat likely
next week “Lara” : Thanks; next week “J.P.H.”
(Brown Mountain): There is not the faintest semblance
of poetry in what you send “Thickhead": Next
week. Earlier in future ; and thanks “Scissors”:
A little more concise "J.K." : Your mother-in-law is
something like onr own. Send something not so
saddening “ G.E.S.” : Give us something local, old
follow; we really haven’t a subscriber in the sun, or an
agent in the moon “ Bus”: Send along “ S.P.” :
Giad to hear from you “J.D.”: We are often in
want of a line from “ out there.” “W.T.”: Thank‘l;
send yonr next to the local paper; published there,
vonr libels are not seen “ Eooe Homo" : We shall be
glad to hear from you frequently “V.L.”: In-
definite; what do you re r er to P let us know
“J.8.H.”: Eight “D.D.": Next week “T. 8.”:
Don’t invest again “L.L.”: We have no confidence
in burglars; write again "Shingler”: Stop; you
can’t write; call before Friday; waste paper is shipped
off that day “W.S.”: Next week “Sledge”:
Skunk ; you’ll meet with an accident one day; fall from
a drop, or something of that sort.
Mr. Augustus Morris has dropped right into the
stylo of W.B.D. —vide his letter, “ The Legislative
Assembly and Messrs. Baker and Garrett,” in the
Herald. Tins has doubtless arisen from the fact that
A.M. and W.B.D. are often together—at Manly.
Uonp-la 1
Even tho saints are being realized upon. St.
Judo's Estate, at Rand wick, passes under the hammer
on Saturday, tho 19th. It was not till tho tram ron to
Jlandwick that there was a demand for land. Unfortu-
ilately there’s but very little to sell. Hardio and
Gorman fetch the millions.
Tho Auburn Downs Estate, and tho Forest
Roa’d Estate—the former on the Suburban line, and
latter on the Tllawarra line—are to be soldjon Saturday,
by Batt, Rodd, and Purves. The sale of the Forest
Road Estate is the first thing of and extensive cha-
racter transacted on this new line, and is hound to
attract largo investments.
A grand concert was given at Windsor, on
Thursday evening, November 3rd, in aid of the building
fund of the Church of England schoolroom. The hall
was densely crowded by a fashionable and apprecia-
tive audience, comprising the Site of the Hawkesbury
district, and the fact that tho proceeds of the event
amounted to £3O proves the interest that is taken in
high-class music by the residents in that neighbour-
hood. The programme was a lengthy one, and con-
tained some very fine compositions; first and foremost
of which should be mentioned, as the gem of the
evening’s entertainment, Weber's “ Concert-stuck," for
piano, with orchestral accompaniments, executed by
Mr. P. M'Quado, in his usual brilliant and masterly
style, ably supported by a judiciously selected orchestra,
conducted by Mr. Sydney Moss, L.C.M. Another
favourite number was the lost movement of Mos-
oholos’ Fourth Concerto, also performed by Mr. F.
VL’Qnade, which met with such demonstrative a;.
proval, that it had to bo repeated. Signora Pabris
was most successful in the rendering of two Italian
songs, both of which were enthusiastically encored, as
was also Miss Sherwin’s ballad “ Waiting.” We mast
not omit to mention Mrs. Lennard and Mrs. Stretton,
who contributed largely to the success of tho evening.
Mr. Angelo Tomaghi, the young and promising bari-
tone, gave full scope to his really powerful voic*, in the
two pieces assigned to him in the programme, but we
will forbear from any criticism of Mr. Williams’s
“Spirito Gontil,” as ha was evidently suffering from
excessive nervousness. Instrumental solos were given
by Messrs. Francik, Wilcek, Pecotsch, and Andrejovioh, -
and were thoroughly appreciated. The bassoon solo by
Herr Andrejevieh especially created much amusement.
A selection from “ The Pirates of Penzance," brought
to a close tho most successful concert ever yet held in
the district.
6
November 19,1881.
THE BULLETIN.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
jlr J. C. Williamson is a gentleman whose head
.8 particularly level; and he has, in consequence, raked
in a very large amount of “spons.,’’ indeed, from under
the Thespian grate. What he attempts he does well,
and this is one of tho secrets (there are not many) of
his success. If an ordinary man set out travelling with,
gay, a Punch and Judy show, it’s about ten to one that
before many months his puppets would be locked up in
tho landlord’s lumber-room, and the proprietor locked
np in gaol. That, would be because the eran didn’t
know howto work it. If “J C/’ started out starring
with the same primitive show, siwh ia our confidence
in him, that we should ask no hotter fate than to carry
round the hat and collect tho money, taking tea per
cent, on tho gross returns, and being found in board
and shoe-leather. Gubbins’s Punch and Judy show
wouldn’t draw anything except cauliflower stalks and
orange-peel; but Williamson’s “ Thdiitre de Poli-
chlnella" would charm the last shilling out of the
pocket of a Scotch sexton.
• * 9
Thus, we see tfhat he once more produces “ The
Pirates" in Sydney, with almost the same cast as for-
merly ; and the theatre will hardly hold tbe people who
efoWd In to ?oe it. It woulci bare been tbe same had
he put Up “ Pinafore j" and things will be in ever so
mndh more satisfactory condition when " Patience’* is
at last given to gladden the heart of Darling Point, and
to cause rejoicings in the sylvan groves of Rose Bay.
Saturday's performance of 11 Tho Pirates of Penzance ”
Was chiefly remarkable for two things—the appearance
of Miss Alice Rves as Mabel, and for tbe extraordinary
amount of spirit which Mias Maggie Moore now infuses
ilito the port of Ruth. Her appearance was simply
delicious. It shouldn't have been, of course; but. after
all, tH6 Opbrals such a lot of itiere toffl-foolery that it
dora nflt really matter a Very gfeat deal, we suppose,
whether the '• unities ” are observed or not. Her dress
was exqsisite, all embroidered flounces, jingling coins,
and prismatic colours. In the first ac ( ‘, when Frederick
• takes up" with Mabel, there was mauy u savage growl
B th« pit, and when Frederick sings—
" Upon my ignorance you play,—
Your face is lined, your hair is gfcy,”
the countenances of the stalls were stunpod with de-
risive incredulity. She sang throughout with great
spirit, her enunciation being remarkably clear ; and all
her business iu the opera was immense, notably the
little bit at the end of the second act, where she (alls
Into the arms of the Sergeant.
* * «
Miss Alice Eoes’s Mabel was a very pleasant
performance. Alice herself is a young lady with a re-
markably pure soprano voice, and an appearance which,
though good, would fie improved if she wcqild adopt'tho
mode of her Gallic histrionic sisters iu improving her
figure. The art de sefaire uno taille lorms a serious por-
lion pt a French actress’s education. There is a book
Written about it somewhere, and when wo come across
it we will have much pleasure in sending it round.
Miss Bees had a grand reception, and her rendering of
her first song drew down a gtorm of applause and a
shopfal of bouquets. It is a pretty song—road it
" Poor wandering one.
Though thou hast surely strayed.
Take heart of grace,
Tby steps retrace.
Be not afraid.
Poor wandering one.
If such poor love as mine
Can helptheo find
True peace of mind—
Why, take it, it is thine 1
Take heart, fair days will shine.”
Miss Bees has learned .a great deal, but she has yet a
gteat deal to learn. However, even at present, her
Mabel is, vocally, the best wo have had ; and there's
money in her.
« # *
Mr. Verdi was effective as usual as the Pirate
King, and Mr. Armes Beaumont sang the music of
Frederick pleasantly. Mr. John Fordo was a groat suc-
cess as Samuel, and exhibited both vocal and histrionic
powers of a very high order. Mr. W H. Vernon was
nervous as the Major-General on the first night, but
has acquired tho necessary amount of aplomb during
tho week. Mr. Williamson was immensely droll as
the Sergeant, and the choruses were on ne pent mieux.
Taken collectively, the show is a splendid one—dresses,
Bconery, and accessories being such as would do oredit
to a first-class theatre in any part of the woild.
# # #
“ Patience” will be put on either on Wednesday
or on Saturday next. Hero is the cast of principals :
Colonel Cilverley, Signor Riccardi; Major Murgatroyd,
Mr. John Forde ; Lieut, the Dtako of Dunstable, Armes
Beaumont; Reginald Bunthorne (a fleshly p£fet), W.
H. Vernon; Archibald Grosvenor (au Idyllic poet).
Signor Verdi; the Lady Jane, Miss Maggie Moore;
Patience (a dairymaid). Miss Alice Bees. Miss Andrda
Navaro, who played here very many years ago, will taka
the place of Mrs. Williamson on her departure.and subse-
quently at the Opira House, whither the company will
migrate at Christmas, ia order to make way for the
inevitable pantomine.
# * #
** Patience” is as full of gems as a Domain
preacher is of Scripture texts. Hero now is a stanza
from the heroine’s opening song, which is admirable in
every way, and as a sample of delicate versification hard
to boat, even by tho finest pieces of Wordsworth.
Mark:-
" If love is a thorn, they show no wit
Who foolishly hug and foster it.
If love is a weed, how simple they
Who gather and gather it, day by day!
If love is a’nettle that makes you smart,
Why do you wear it next your heart ?
And if it be none of these, say I,
Why do you sit and sob aud sigh f”
Then there is a receipt for a heavy dragoon, sung by
the Colonel, in which, iu order to dish up this “ soldier,
like paragon," you have to take (amongst others) the
following ingredients
•* Coolness of Paget about to trepan—
The'soiencc of Jullien, the eminent musico—
Wit of Macaulay, who wrote of Queen Anno—
The pathos of Paddy, as rendered by Boueicault—
Style of tho Bishop of Sodor and Man —
The dash of a D’O/say, divested of quackery—
Narrative powers of Dickons and Thackeray—
Victor Emmanuel—peak-hunting Peveril—
Thomas Aquinas, and Doctor Saoheverell—
Tnpper and Tennyson—Daniel Dafoe—
Anthony Trollope and Mr. Guizot 1”
Bunthorne’s reithetic poem is another literary triumph,
and if it is well recited should bring down the house :
** When from the poet's plinth
The amorous colocynth
Yearns for tho aloe, faint with rapturous thrills,
How can he hymn their throes
Knowing as well he knows
That they are only uncompounded pills F”
• • ♦
Lady Jane has plenty to do in tho second act,
and It will do a great lark to see Miss Andrea accom-
pany herself on the violin and sing tho following ;
Fading is the taper waist—
Shapeless grows tho shapely limb.
And although securely laced,
' Spreading is the figure trim!
Stouter than I used to b?.
Still more corpulent grow I
There will be too much of mo
In the coming bye and byo 1”
"Patience” will bo magnificently mounted, the dresses
alone having, it is said, cost Mr. Williamson over
£l5OO. The curio'sity of tho puMic concerning this,
the latest and most remarkable production of Messrs.
Gilbert and Sullivan, ia very pronounced; and the
the pecuniary success of it will be, in Sydney, we should
eay, without question. #>
** * *
At the Gaiety, “ Never Too Late to Mend ” has
run to fine business, all through the week, but it will
be succeeded by “ Louis X 1.,” “Hamlet," and a round
ol legitimate dramas. The company has been strength-
ened by the engagement of Mr. W. Q. Oarey, and Mr.
Bayliss can now boast of a fine working crowd. So far
as we are concerted, we are anxious to see some legiti-
mate plays, well performed, and are looking forward
with much interest, to beholding Mr. Dampier again ai
Hamlet, Miss M-rion Melrose is to bo the Ophelia—
a id very charmingly gbe wall look and act, no doubt.
This young lady, by-the-bye, owing to Miss Aders’s ill-
ness, assumed the r<fle of Susm (why will Mr. Booth,
man call it Sec-u-san ?) in Mr. Baade’s drama, and gave
quite another colour to tbe impersonation, by gagging
outrageously in the prison-scene, and in the last act.
When John Meadows is arrested, and is being taken
away, she airily bade him “good-bye,” and when she
sees the money, she exclaim s , “ Oh. won’t 1 bo able to
buy a nice lot of new dresses with this,” —expressions
which, it is hardly needful to state, arc not in tho
author’s MS. Iu “ Hamlet,” the management have
cast Mr. Norman Vane (who is something over six feet)
for Osric. Surely this must he a mistake, since, from
time immemorial, that effeminate young gentleman has
always been represented as a slight stripling, and in-
variably represented by a pretty girl. Mr.
Poole will be the First Grave-digger, and Miss M. A.
Melville Hamlet’s aunt and mother.
* * * *
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” was produced at the
Opera House on Satnaday night, with Miss Maggie
Oliver as Topsy, and E. B. Boothman in tho part of
George Harris. We have no space this week to notice
the performance, but will attend to it in our next issue.
Tho audience, we hear, was large, and tho applause
liberal. Wo intend to run np one night, to gaze on
Maggie. and hear “ Nearer my God to Thee ” before
we soar np.
* * * *
South’s company have, wo hear, done a tremend-
ous business in Tamworth—the people in the town
rendered immortal by tho residence of Hanley Bennett,
being “ Pirates " and “ Nemesis ” mad. In the latter
piece, James, as Calino, and Miss Edith Pender, as tho
fire-eating Major’s daughter, are said to bo very funny.
But James is nranv in everything, and lives there a man
with soul so dead who would deny that ? Edith is
superlatively quite. All tho company aro iu high
spirits. They had a fishing-party tho other dav, and
Sullivan, one of tho company, kept losing bis lead. At
last the only weights he could rake together were a
tuniug-fork and his watch. “ Which shall I put On,
James ?” he said, holding them both up. 11 Don’t put
on the fork,” replied the irrepressible; “ it cost half-a-
crown." So tho ticker was lowered into the deep, and,
in a few moments, was carried off as before by a big
jow. Sullivan now tells tho time by tho tuning-fork;
* * * *
Thady O’Kano, in the Northern Miner, thus
announces tho appearance in Charters Towers of Pro-
fessor Loronski: Professor Lorenski announces an
entertainment to-night in the School of Arts, to consist
of various trices. Tho Townsville Bulletin is rather
rough on the Professor. Wo wore served in the same
way by tbe ‘ eminent ’ Dr. Lyon, otherwise Davis, who
diddled the printers hero, but afterwards blazed out at
Cooktown as good as new.” This is rather rough, but
probably exaggerated.—Prom the Towers, too, we have
received another letter from our campanological friend,
who says that there is a big thing up there in the new
hall, for a troupe of about eight, at Christmas time,
Mr. Green's caligraphy is the plainest we ever saw ; and
if ho does not give a ring opposite the Miner office after
this compliment, wo will put our faith no more in bell-
men.
* * *
Professor Pepper and a troupe of “ Japs.” have
been giving Townsville a turn, ard have bean doing a
fair biz. Conjurors aro not likely to make anything but
tracks in that peaceful village for seme time.
* * * *
Mr. and Mrs. Templeton’s opera company have
had a fairly successful season in Newcastle. The local
“ rag” speaks highly of Miss Lambert’s Grand Duchess.
They also produced “ Tho Bohemian Girl," with a new
prima donua. Miss Louise Harcourt (quo cst co done ?)
in the part of Arliue ; Miss Lambert contenting herrelt
with Florenstcin. Mr. M trtiu O’Hngan, and Mr. Stuart
Bolton, late of the Kelly and Leon opera tronpe,
aro members of the company.
* * * *
Nothing ia known yet about tho Theatre Eoyal
pantomime, but it is to be played with the strongest
cast of actors ever assembled together in an Australian
theatre. Tho name of tho gentleman to whom the
localization has been entrusted has not transpired, but
we should not bo surprised to see the gallant hero of
the “ White once again to the fore.
* * * *
We are sorry to see that in spite of all the
laudatory notices that have been showered upon Gar-
net Walcb’s play, “Her Evil Star,” produced lately
at the Mcdbourne Bijou, it won’t fizz.—Wybort
Reeve, in tho “Crushed Tragedian,” has succeeded
Garnet’s piece.—" Madame Favart,” “The New Bab,”
and “Betsy” aro still running at the Opera House,
Royal, and Princess respectively'.
« • »
We clip the following from tho Australasian :
‘ Struck Oil,’ at tho Roval, draws like a new play. ‘ It
is Never Too Late to Mend,’ at tho Gaiety, also draws
as if it had never been done before. Miss Smithson, in
that bald melodramatic hash, ‘ The Female Detective,’
at the Q men’s, also dnws. Mr. Read, with his Ober-
Ammergau pictures, at the Victoria Hall, seems also to
draw ; and even Wilson’s Circus has a kind of attrac-
tion for some people.—Barton.” We never saw so
many pairs of draws in one par. before.
• « «
Herr Wilhelmi has given his last concert at the
Town Hall, and Maccabo is still drawing immense
houses at tbe St. George’s.—Tom Buckley gives a
Minstrel show at the Apollo every Saturday, and a groat
roll up of tho uncombed is tho result.—Tommy Hud-
son, baa taken his" “ Surprise Party” back to tho
Varieties—now Hudson’s Theatre.
* * * *
Last Wednesday week, Mr. Vernon Eeid, who is
a tremendous favourite in Tamworth, took his benefit
in 11 Pinafore,” playing Ralph, and drew a jammed house.
Vernon writes to say that tho company is getting quite
au “institution” in tho country now, and that when
they arrive at some of the towns they are received by
the Mayor and Corporation. We fancy ho embellishes
here a bit, and likewise when ho reports that several
“leading citizens” bare made “ Wandering Jews ” of
themselves by following the company about from place
to place, so that they can hear the performances every
night,
* * * *
We learn by telegram from Mr. Duncan Macul-
Imu that ho has sold out his interest in the Quintette
Club to Mr. Thynne, and has been appointed manager
of the Brisbane Theatre. Duncan wants a good bur-
lesque or comic opera company for Christmas, so mom-
bors of the “porfesb” who can either warble or aro
strong on tho light fantastic had better communicate
with him. Wo are glad to hear tho news ourselves,
because Duncan is a first-rate fellow, ard we shall be
greatly surprised it ho doesn't conjure more money into
tho walls "of that theatre than any of tho managers
who have preceded him. Advt. next time Duncan !
* * * *
The Goulburnites havo been having a good tixua
lately. Miss Slattery appeared there ia a concert iu aid
of the Catholic Church at Goulburn, and sang to an
immense and enthusiastic audience. The plage was
literally covered with flowers, and the fair Kate was
'called and recalled again aud again. It is about time,
we think, that this gifted young cantatrice pave us
another chance of bearing her in Sydney. Wo are
hoarding up a special Koh i noor, which we intend con-
cealing in the floral cartwheel we shall “heave” ux>on
the stage after the first ballad,
# * *
Talking of Goulburn, there was an entertain-
ment of an unusual description given there the other
day. For three weeks previous to its coming off, a local
tradesman had been putting sensational ads ; in the
papers, announcing a grand musical and dramatic soiree,
for which he engaged several amateurs In the middle
of the performance, he came forward and addi’cssed the
audience on tho subject of a scheme he had formed of
selling his goods on the Building Society principle,
handing round envelopes containing applications for
shares, to bo returned to him later with tho cash de-
posits. After a bit ho collected the envelopes, and
retired behind to examine.them. He found that they
Contained orange-peel, beetles, oyster-shclls, gum-leaves,
string, and iu one case a dead mouse. One mau, who
[ applied for 50) shares, enclosed a bank-note which pur-
ported to entitle tho recipient to a “hammering" on
presentation ; and another humorist forwarded the heel
of a We’lington boot, with tho request that the spec; •
lator would forward tho “ e.hange ’’ by waggon. In tho
end, the man who got np the show came forward, and
gave the audience a large slice of his mind; whereupon
tho affair broke up,in confusion.
* # #
And this reminds us that the Goulburn
Herald, iu a notice of Inst Tuesday’s concert, admires
tbe singing of a gentleman of “ Wo tars that o'er the
ocean tail,” from the favourite opera “Pinafore.” This
will bo nows to Dr. Sullivan. But we have to go ti
Gon bum, Parramatta, and Jamberoo for truly inter-
esting items.
** * *
Wilson has, during the week, crammed his
thousands into his circus and his millions into his
packets. All the churches have perceptibly suffered by
the appearance of James on the Haymarket Square, and
we shouldn’t bo surprised to bear that, on departing
from Sydney, he leaves £lOO for every clergyman who
likes to apply. The interest iu the performances is
kept up with groat animation. A new programme with
tbe Great James means one in reality, and viewed the
second week it was literally a new circus. Athletics
hero seem to reach their highest perfection. Tiio per-
formers may bo pitted against any that have ever ap-
peared on this continent. A great attraction during
the week has been the remarkable jumping of one of
James’s thoroughbreds. Ho clears three good up-
standing horses—as great a leap as has any where been
seen. Hippodrome shortly I
** * *
Good News! Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and
Mnsgrove have taken tbe Theatre Royal for three years
from next May. The same managers have tho Theatre
Eoyal, Melbourne, and will work tbe two in conjunc-
tion. They intend to form a full operatic and a dra-
matic company, which will include the best artists and
stars procurable in England and America—the com-
panies to perform alternately at tbe two theatres. With
regard to Adelaide, Mr. Allison arranges wit.h tbe great
trio for the production there of tho novelties they will
introduce.
• « •
Miss Pomeroy ia announced for tho London
stage at an early day.—Rose Hcrsde has accepted an
engagement for tho London Lyceum.
** * *
A now baritone, Signor Giovanni Victorini, has
arrived in Sydney from Milan. Tho cogno?centi will,
we understand, shortly have an opportunity of hearing
Signor Victorini’s voice, a semi-private recital being in
course of arrangement. Signor Victorini is in the
prime of youth, and possessed an excellent presence. If
big voice equal his other advantages we trust to see him
in opera.
** * *
Tho Agioscopo is for sale, at tho Victor La Hall,
Casflereugh-street; 200 capital views of travels, geology,
astronomy, bible history, etc , some of the pictures being
of unusual merit.
* « •
The Victoria Hall, Castlereagh-streot, one of tho
best stands in tho city, is to let for a term or on a long
lease. Tho hall has large accommodation, fine acoustic
properties, and ample stage room. Tho owner has spent
a large sum in renovating and fitting it up to require-
ments.
• • •
Letters received. —Letters for tho following lie
at this office :—Mr. George Lacey, Misso-i De Gay, Miss
Alice John-', Mr. S. H. M’Leaa, Miss Maggie Oliver,
Mr. Searl, Mr. F. H. Hall.
“THE POOR PLAYER”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the theatrical
profession.]
Tho Townsville School of Arts Hall was not
once engaged for amusements during tbe months of
September and October. Even the amateurs there seem
to have gone to sleep Professor Lcronski opened at
Townsville on Ist November The Alma Company arc
playing on Charters Towers. The troupe is composed
of the male sex only, who have travelled overland f.om
the South. They are doing a fair business on the
Towers In spite of a run of wretched luck, the
Brit bane theatre “ghost” walks regularly, and full
sals, aro the order of 1 be day. The Brisbane pros, trm t
S.H. may see this item We have another communi-
cation frhm Ben Greene, tbe Charters Towers “ cam-
pagnologist," tho gist of which is scattered through
our various departments. We wish more of our cor-
respondents resembled Bon. He sends us lots of infor-
mation, some fun, but never a j it of malice or bitter-
ness. Go on, Ben Successful performance on
November 11, by Goulburn Amateur Dramatic Club
Messrs. Hoskins and Holloway are mentioned as the
partuery for tho Christmas season at Ballarat, at the
close of which they will rotnrn with a good company to
New Zealand Bent and Batcholdcr’s Minstrels wore
expected to close at Christchurch on the 4th inst, after
which the Amateur Operatic Association wore to appear.
...Herr Wilholroj gave bis farewell performance on
Saturday night Mr. D. H. Harkins has arranged
with Mr. R. De bias for a tour in New Zealand Miss
Grace Clair (sister of Q. V. Brooke) ia expected to visit
Australia Joe Brown is still reviving old memories by
hia*silver belt jig performances at Carlisle Star Music
Hall Another tragedian will shortly be announced
from America, Mr. Sheridan, of whom reports speak
with kindness.
* # *
A foreigner, describing Henry Irving, says :
“ The American tourist secs only a very ugly and very
painstaking, bat weak aud insufficient actor, With an
unpleasant voice and an artificial and stagey delivery,
and the most atrocious pair of legs that au eminent
tragedian was ever afflicted with. David Allen aud
Mary Davenport, late of the Soldeno Opera Troupe,
were recently married at Dayton, Ohio. They were
respectively known off the stage as David H. Melrose
and Mary E. Devine Tho Paris paper;;announce that
Henri Prevost, the young tenor who jumped so
suddenly into fame at the Chateau d’Eau, during the
season of popular opera there, and who broke his con-
tract iu an equally singular manner, has been engaged
by Mr. Mapleson for a, tour in America, at a salary of
£230 a month tho first, £6OO a month the second, and
£UOO a mouth the third year In the new comic
Opera, “ Claude Duval," the first song of tho title role
is to be sung oh horseback, and a realistic bit of busi-
ness is to kc introduced in a scene representing one of
Duval’s road interview.-;, by bringing a four
upon the stage A Summer theatre, iu Berlin, gives
performances at half-past nine every pleasant morning
to between 2000 and 3000 persons George Darrell
writing to the Australasian says : —“ Of my own
doings, I can record a successful starring season in San
Francisco, my receipts comparing more than favourably
with the best stars of the year. ‘ Buck from the Grave’
was a decided success, and the papers praised the play
and tho actor. ‘ Transported for Life’ was voted some-
what too English ; nevertheless, tbebusiness was above
tiro average. At Philadelphia I played a short season,
Mrs. John Drew a very celebrated American actress,
being in the cast. Tho performance was an artistic but
not a great pecuniary success. Stock actors get ex-
ceedingly well paid—legitimate leading men from lOOdol.
to 250d01. per week, ordinary leading men 75d01. to
150dol. per weak. Leading ladies the same ratio.”
Japanese Tommy is at Emmett’s Music Hall, Chicago.
Alfred Tennyson is engaged upon a now play
The old Drury will have no pantomime this year......
Miss Emilia Melville’s company produced "Patience”
ah the Bush-street Theatre, Frisco, Sept, 1, cast thus:
Patience, Miss Emilie Melville;Col. Calveney, Charles
Dungan; Major Murgatroyd, Albert Hendersoa; Lieu-
tenant the Duke of Dunstable, Wallace Macrery ; Bun-
tbornc. Max Freeman; Archibald Orosvenor, Tom
Cassolli; tho Lady Angela, Lillie Post: the Lady
Saphir, Tillie Yalorga; the Lady Ella, Tellnlia Evans;
tho Lady Jane, Agnes Halleck Mr. Geo. Wardo,
who visited Melbourne with the London Comedy Com-
pany, is reported as playing at Sadler’s Wells, London.
The Pantomime at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne,
this year, is to be “ Whittington and his Cat.” It was
in contemplation to play the same pantomime at the
Princess Theatre, but we are informed by those who
profess to know that tho Princess pantomime will bo
• • Siubad the Sailor.” A good story is told about Miss
Litton. A critio taunted about the venality of the
press, and about tho ease with which, if you like, you
can bribe any newspaper, said, “Well I don’t think 1
ever had anything that could bo called a bribe. Miss
Litton one Christmas sent mo a basket of game as a
seasonable present. As in duty bound I submitted it—
it didn't come into my hands for a day or two—to mv
editor, and asked him whether it was to be considered
bribery ? He answered 'Certainly it is bribery—and if
you don’t lock sharp and get it cooked it will be con op-
tion as well.' ”
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Typhoon in China ; 200 churches and 2000 house •
destroyed ; numerous lives lost Second series of tho
German elections confirm Bismarck’s political defeat
Chinese gunboats destroyed uest of 200 pirate5......130
passengers still missing from the Konig der Noder-
landen Improved prospects for English and French
holders of Turkish bonds Earl Dufferiu notifies
Russia that the Powers will not permit the levy of a
tribute on Bulgaria Gladstone, at Guildhall ban-
quet, spoko hopefully of tho new Irish Lind Adminis-
tration, but intimated determination to maintain tho
law; hinled at Radical reform with respect to tb©
Housu of Lords, and stated that England and France
were united in respect of their attitude towards Egypt....
Arab insurgents suffered another severe defeat from tber
French.... King Coffee, of Ashantoe, has slaughtered 200
girls ns a propitiatory sacrifice.. ....England movirg to
secure European concert in measure for t he protect ioa of
white traders in the South So is Dillon, M.P., fAtod
at Limerick, and presented with tho freedom of tha
city...... Disastrous explosion in a sulphur mine. Sicily ;
forty-eight people killed...... Famine In Zululand
40,000 cases before the Irish Land Court All Chris-
tians dismissed from the Turkish military and police
forces Majority of free-traders on the French com-
mission appointed re commercial treaty with England
Fenian plant unearthed at Bradford, E. ; firearms,
ammunition, and important documents... Groat sickness
among the French at Tunis .Archbuhop MHalo, of
Tuam, is dead Qambetta completed formation of mw
Minis'ry. M. Bert, as Minister f >r Public Instruction
is very unpopular. M. de Freycinet and M. Lown Say
decline to join. Stated that several offices are till dby
novices in political life .. ..Trial of Guiteau. tho aasassir,
commenced Two agrarian outrages iu Ireland,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Seventy tons tin waiting at Tate tin mines (Q )
for teams, and none available. Carriage to Port Douglas
£l5 jer ton; distance, 140 miles; good roads... ..911
people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon A G.ul-
buru larrikin has boon sentenced to two months'baid
labour for a brutal assault on a Chinaman. The avail-
ant had just finished a 12 months’ sentenci The
mania for subdividing land las ranched Qoulourn...;,,
370 tons from Dan O’Connell lease. Charters Toweis,
gave 1181 oz Diamond drill, a failure at Gooktt wn,
working wall at Charters Towers Jockey club
formed at Adelong One fresh case of sraal 1-pox in Syd-
ney during fortnight 300 oz. patch struck at Qymi i i
in No. 1 North Phoenix The Naval llrigado had a
big-gun firing match last Saturday afternoon; tho
weather was fine and shooting good. A. B. Hornby, of
No. 5 Co., shot away the target, and five “outers”
were made by other competitors. Tho band liv*>n<*d
things np A merchant at Melbourne has be n ir-
restod, charged with purchasing stolon pnperty
Eobert Campbell, said- to be a sou of General Campb-11.
and a relative of Lord Clive, was prosecuted at Mel-
bourne, on Tuesday, for passing a flash note; dir-
chargcd J. J. Hack, foot policeman, found decapi-
tated on tho Adelaide railway lino. Supposed suicide.
The libel action, Meaton v. the German paper, at
Brisbane, is being heard John Gorman killed at tl o
Nrpeaa water-works by the fall of a stone down a shaft
in which ho was working City of Melbourne steamed
from Noumda to Sydney, 1072 miles, in 3 days It hour?,
Miss Frew, daughter of Mr, Frew, manager of tho
Joint Stock Bank. Gympie, drew Czar in a Cup sweep,
aud receives £3705s Schooner Heir’olta,of Nonmbi,
foundered at sea with seven hands A man was ar-
rested at Wallerawang, on Tuesday, charged with steal-
ing £lOO, also £250 worth of watches and jewellery, from
Sydney Bryson, a prisoner, charged with stealing
£lOO in cheques, escaped from custody near Coonamb'e,
by jumping off the coach under cover of darkne s ....The
banks of this colony have agreed to raise the rate of
interest on fixed deposits to 2,3, and 4 per cent, f ar
periods of three, six, and twe'vo months respectively.
The Victorian banks undecided.;.... I. D. Emery, of
Gilmore, Tumut, has 20,000 tobacco plants.
* * •
A shipload of human benes &c , from Plevna, was
recently received by a manure manufacturer at Bristol,
England The premature death, at Piomha, S. America,
of one Jcaquiua Carnmoca, at the age of 187 years, ia
announced. Tho journal chronicling the death, unlike
tho Sydney dailies, does not till us how many children
have been left t) mourn her loss One of the sights
at Milan just now is a petrified human body, which has
been prepared by a Dr, Comi. The process is a secret
one.
Judging by the popularity of tho Lome Whisky
ia this colony, this is the place for the Marquis and hia
Royal wife, and not Canada.
A n extraordinary occurrence took place during
the passage from the Heads to Kempsey, on occasion
of the late picnic. A fight took place on board the
Platypus, and a policeman actually made his appearance
before a round had been fought.
In the Carcoar paper, Mary (bless her) gives tho
following advice to male children “ For the old man’s
Bake, keep your trousers well padded." Another
column contains a recip« for honey toffoo. Who shall
eay that this is not a useful paper ?
Hardie and Gorman have taken the North
Shore 1 This is very natural, since every position of
importance round about the metropolis has been theirs
for some time. They don’t intend however, to hold
the fort. They part with a hundred acres mi Monday,
the 21st, at head-quarters, Pitt-street. The pick of
North Shore is the name given to the land.
Mr. E. C. Hagon entertained a party of friends
at a private ball, on Friday last. Over a hundred ladies
and gentlemen spent a most pleasant evening in the
Oddfellows' Hall, Messrs. Hagou and Turner sparing
no efforts to run tho affair successfully. The guests
came from all quarters. Two sisters, attired in pale
blue silk, represented North Shore beauty. Two
sisters —one in pink, and one in white, with pink roses—
were from Rydo. A lavender silk dress was one of the
handsomest in the room, and there were several good
black costumes trimmed with white lace. A whito
cashmere, trimmed with white and a very pretty shade
of orange plush, looked well, the combination of colours
being peculiar. 'Jhc blonde from Burwood, in bright
green, with a wreath of white flowers, was charming ;
aud a tall lady from North Shore, in pink silk, with
hunches of dark flowers, looked stately and graceful.
A dove silk, with cardinal bows, contrasted well with
tho numerous white costumes. The daughters of a
Pitt-street merchant, who tells glass beads and things
to the benighted heathen, were admirably prepared, and
very dangerous: one was iu pink satin and tarletan,
with silver flowers, aud wreath of daisies to match, and
another iu blue ditto, ditto. Daisies don’t grow blue,
as a rule, but when a lady wants to look nice she won’t
allow such a trifle to stand in the way. Miss Woodhill
in green, aud Miss Hioscb in pick, ran a close race for
‘‘belle." but a lady in blue was thought by some to
have the claim. The City Catering Co. made the usual
appetising display of dehcacies, which were attentively
served; and as Messrs. Shapter and Hermann played
the “toons,” the music was of tho very best. Mr.
Hagon had the pleasure of knowing that all his friends
enjoyed themselves thoroughly.
There ia one luxury which is used and appreciated
alike by all classes and conditions of men aud women ;
especially women. To ensure Hie pure and perfect
enjoyment of this universally used beverage, consumers
sht uld ask their grocers to keep The Calcutta Tka
Association's Pube Indian Tea. The word Calcutta
occurs several times on tho ornamented wrappers, which
are registered in all the colonies. Beware of counter-
feits. Wholesale Warehouse, 28 Chaelotte Place.
Absolutely no connection whatever with any other
packet teas in N.S.W. Purity, flavour, economy, and
strength guaranteed.—Adv,
7
THE BULLETIN.
November 19,1881.


PEPPER AND SALT.
History repeats itself in many and in most
unexpected ways. 2003 years ago the gentle Nazarene
hurled the money-lenders out of the temple, and indig-
nantly said “My house is a house of prayer. But you
have made it a den of thieves ’’ And now, to-day-
well, not to-day, baker. We’ll “ bide a wee” till all the
numbers are up, and then report progress.
* • •
The Qubanbeyan Age is really a paper which
reeks With information. The suspense of a panting
ho ini sphere is put an end to by a paragraph in last
weok’d issue, to tho effect that in a crickotu mu ton the
Gandaroos licked the Gininderras by one innings and
several runs. Another par. states that a lunatic is at
largo at Quoanbeyan, and since this announcement not
a soul has called at the office.
• * •
Melbourne Bulletin poetry
“ Thera is a burly blind man in our town,
Of cradle testimonial rouown,
Altho' he’s mot with very muokle strife.
He never told a lie in all his lifo.”
How then: —
The oyslorxau who perm’d this rot
Deserves to bo both hung and shot.
“ What then,” yon a« ask, with a grin,
“ Should o’ertako him who put it in i
To this wo sternly answer you—
We’d make him read his rag right through.
If that does not the miscreant kill.
Why let him rip;—for nothing will 1
* # *
A correspondent from the country writes to Bay
that the doctor up his way (who is also the visiting
Burgeon of the gaol) has never been sober within the
memory of the oldest inhabitant. If called into see a
mt iont ho gives them the choice between black draught
HudcamphoV-jnlep. which nw
Usually, before administering the dose, ho stealthily
tosses up a half-penny —heads for black strap, and
tails for the julep. The last surgical operation ho per-
formed with n hand-saw and an oyster-knife; and when
ho was recently called in to bleed a man, commenced to
boro a hole in the upper part of his arm with a pair of
soissorS. It is sui tho has no diploma, but when taunted
with not possessing the necessary authority to practice,
ho produces two documents—mo of whioh is I a Bal,or ®
discharge and the other an old publican a license. It is
hardly needful to state that the health of the prisoners
at the gaol, of which ho is the medical officer, is excel-
Put,. None of them over by any chance send for the
doctor! m
Last Sunday night two ladies who had been ont
spending the evening on the Moore Park road, after
waiting in vain for the brother of one of them to fetch
thorn home, started on their journey unprotected.
They hid not gone very far when they were accosted by
a tall something in a suit of clothes and a ping hat, who
insisted upon walking with them. Being a perfect
stranger, the ladies naturally objected, but wishing to
save a scene in a part of the thoroughfare, which was
more than ordinarily well lighted, they allowed him to
walk beside them. He commenced then telling lies
about tho wealth of hia uncle, and in a little while gain-
ing cocrag e by the passive attitude assumed by his
companions, encircled the waist of the nearest lady
with his arm. ... A minute later a hell-topper was
aaon flying across tho road, a couple of umbrellas played
the devil's tattoo upon an unprotected skull, a Jong
•• banger” was rent in twain, and Iho form of a man
battered, mashed, scratched and lacerated, was rolled
into the gutter. Then a manly voice whispered in the
car of tho re rrmbent form: ‘‘You put, your bucket
down the wrong well this time, old man.” Some girls
have a “ brother." When the sufferer got homo he
explained hH dolapidation by sajiug ho had been to a
I ioaic.
Says a recent D.T.: — The police authorities
rruh to recover the body of the young man named
Thomas Fenton, who was found dead in a well in a
garden, situate about three miles distant from Manly,
a few days since, and will be glad if the parties at the
homo where deceased formerly lived in Sydney, will
throw some light on the matter. The officer in charge
of the Cumborlaud-street Station has the matter in
hand.” Thomas Fenton is evidently about the most
remarkable and eccentric sort of corpse we ever read of.
First of all, he is found dead in a well, which but three
short daj s betoro was situated about three short miles
from Manly; hnt whero Thomas Fenton or that well
i>.re at the present time is a mystery which, as Alf.
would esy, is “enshrouded in think Egyptian dark-
m>H.“ It is cheering, however, to know that the
Cumfceriaud-strhet stationer has tho matter in hand,
and when ho sorts it out ho might look around at the
office of the D.T., and see if there are any pink.haaded
snakes or mad dogs with crimson oars and blue tails
knocking about and impeding business.
# # *
A few days ago an amateur concert was given at
Wickham, in aid of the Public School prize fund. Wi -k-
----bam is a small suburb of Newcastle, about as big as a
gob of mud, but not having any “ monster pumpkin” or
Munchausen "snake yarns” to fill its columns, the
Newcastle Herald dedicated about’ a mile and a half
of its “ valuable space ” to a full and true account of
how tho Wickham battle ended. Boiling down the
Herald’s chat, wo find Mr. Peerson’s pupils "admir-
ably rondorod" somothing—Misses Hogue and Dixon
“well rendered’’—Mr. Miller “well sung"—Misses
Pendleton and Morison “ harmonised well together ”
Mr. Morison “ well received ” Miss Holt and
Mr. Goss “blended well together”—Mr. Lay’s ap-
pearance was “ the signal for prolonged applause ’*
—disappearance ditto—Mrs. and Miss Wayne “much
admired" Miss and Mister Garland “deserve
special mention.” In the second part of the tuneful
trouble, Misses Morison and Prevost were "deservedly
applauded ” —Miss Holt’s " delightful morccaux was
given not only with faultless task “ (whatever tho deuce
that is), but also " with every adornment, grace, and
expression, and with all tho elegant accomplishments
in vocalization and superb execution of a finished
artiste.” Bad case of “spoons,” we inspect; but when
lovely woman “ stoops to conquer,” up goes a reporter’s
donkey without a moment’s hesitation. Mr. Gross then
“merited the applause bestowed on him, his upper C
being clearly distinguishable"— Mr. Hay then sang " with
fair success," although slightly chaffed by a corn’d
individual, who did his best to make the affair a lucerne
concern" —Mr, James Morison was theu “ received amid
plaudits”—Mr. Bell afterwards gave “ Don’t Joe,” and
“ was well received ?nd, finally, “ we may mention
tha» the Umber for the stage, etc., was kindly lent by
Mr. W. Henderson, builder, of this city.” At first, we
were under the impression that tho Herald had bor-
rowed Alfred’s musical "cricket" for this occasion only,
but that timber par. was a deal too good for the Nooze,
and could only emanate from tho brain of an “ ait critic”
—or tho local bellman.
• * •
Wo recommended the Newcastle He bald
people, some time since, to slaughter the patriarchal
pottcrer who meanders through a column of leaded
bourgeois weekly, under tho heading of “ Cave Adnl-
lam." A onsual perusal of tho old gentleman’s gro-
tesque galimatias, leads one to tho conclusion that he
sits tip in his family vault once weekly, and writes his
screed with a mule’s tooth on his coffin lid. More
hopeless drivel was never written, anyhow, since Liryc’p
last essay iu the llekker ; and if he isn’t really dead,
we feelingly recommend sumo noble, some high-spirited
coal-miner to quietly lull him to his last sleep with a
pole-axe and a spawling-hammer. This ia the way
"Cave "writes of the Queen, the Secretary for War,
etc.: — "Well this got George’s dander up, and off he
wont to the August Lady red hot to know what was to
be done. As it happened, the A.L. wasn’t in very good
trim, having just reo>ived a letter from young Lome,
to say he was disgusted with his papa marrying again,
and he’d be hanged if he wouldn’t come home and put
things straight somehow, whether Louise came out to
Canada or not.” We don’t know how much of this It
would take lo tiirn tho brain of a man of ordinary
strong intellect; but, so far as wo are concerned, half
a column more of it would render us drivelling idiots.
Tf, however, the Newcastle people really like this kind of
thing, and consider it sparkling literature, we’ll give up
writing ourselves, and take to pedd ing “ The History of
tho Convent” through the Northumberland district.
With regard to “ Cave.” just to encourage industry, we
■ >ffer for the head of that hoary malefactor, to bo
delivered at this office, wrapped in a number of tho
Newcastle Fletcher, two orders for the Soltp Kitchen
and an order f®r the “ Agioscopo.”
* * *
Every new invention of merit always has hosts
of imitators, and we have had ours. Since The Bulletin
was started, and filled with what people want to read,
instead of what they don’t, its articles, its ideas, its
style have been filched and copied by nearly every nows-
paper in the colonics. All tho journals want to be as
popular as wo are, but they can’t manage it. Imitation
is ever imitation Wo got, on an average, three tons of
letters a week from people who love us for what we are
—who live for The Bulletin —who pant for it, and grow
thin when th«y do not got it. One of these letters, the
other dav, differed from the usual run. Here it is—
“truck off, as the writer says, after perusing an issue
soma weeks back
The "two feeder” is golbg at! right nbW; alid llie b!k-
cnlation still mounting Up. Last week lire printed iii<
than over we did before, and you couldu’t buy a papif
now for a poiyid. So we jerk tho ink into Iho point of
our new Mackinnon, and answer “H.T.” in a cheerful
strain;—
From the Ltke ■ “ HaVlng passed tho worst days
of my life In Australia, I hereby say a hearty farewell to
all friends and acquaintances on returning to the Elver
Plato.—Thomas Crawler, per Balmoro to Valparaiso.
Colonial papers plearo copy.” We never saw the man
who put in.this advt., but wo know him well—
The members of the Presbyterian Syttod alb
getting tbpib nahieg up. The leport bf think hiebtifig
on Saturday Ifiat Ibadb one to the conclusion that by
thb admirable ihanner in which they havo got their
feelings under control, they are eminently adapted for
tho cxerciso of religious ministration. It is claimed
for these “ministers” that they posse;s charitable
minds, a contempt for vile dross and tho good things
of this world, and that their hearts aro free from the
slightest germs of “ evil speaking, lying, and slander-
ing.” It would scorn, however, that these holy men
are remarkably good haters, and that their powers of
slang-whanging are very prominently developed. Here
are a few gems from the report of the Synod meeting:
Mr. Livingston : The Rev. George Sutherland had
pamphlet after pamphlet, for the Witness was nothing
but a pamphlet. Mr. Sutherland: It’s not a pamphlet.
Every person who had read the pamphlet would see at
once that the drift of these men has been to destroy
the influence and usefulness of St. George’s Church.
Mr. M‘ Innes; Do yon make a charge against them r
Rev. John S. Macpheraon : I deny such an imputation
with scorn. Mr. Mafpherson : Ido now say that these
two men have laboured long and hard io destroy my.
usefulness. Rev. John Macpherson ; It has been said
that we were trying to drive Mr. Sutherland from St.
George’s, in order that I might get the pulpit j but I
throw such an imputation back with contempt. . . .
Much confusion followed the motion, and the Rev.
George Sutherland moved an amendment to the effect
that the Synod should now adjourn. Ho was supported
by several members, when the cry ‘mob law’ was
raised. It was, however, resolved that Iho motion
should bo carried, and tho debate was adjourned till
Monday.” Under those circumstances, we cannot do
loss than inscribe to these truly good, benevolent,
charitable, single-hearted, disinterested, and God-fear-
ing men, tho couple of encomiastic stanzas which
follow
The servant girls of Melbourne should ba proud.
They have a journalistic organ which not only repre-
sents them as a class, but which notices them individu-
ally. The Melbourne Bulletin is the paper we allude
to; and a casual perusal of it this week leads us to the
conclusion that, as a specimen of literary degradation,
it is unique in the universe. When we had dawned
into a popularity unprecedented in the annals of colonial
journalism, it adopted our title and attempted our
stylo, but, apparently, with a literary staff made upoi
drapers’ shopwalkers, and barbers’ apprentices. We
cannot complain, because uhe paper has been a splendid
advertisement for us by way of contrast. It is com-
posed of column after column of the baldest and most
inane personalities, respecting persons whom nobody
ever heard of before or wants to hear of again. Bet ua
with a rusty jack-knife job out a chunk of it hap-
hazard “ Who was the joung man that got frightened
when passing some cattle in Gnmer-ttceet r Perhaps
Hugh Bell knows.’’ “Who were tho lovey-dojey
couple who had to take shelter on. Sunday, along the
A MORAL PICNIC.
Jim Brown was his baptismal name
(Bat we’ll throw in the " Mister ),
And ho walked out with Laura Jupp—
A lair tobaoco-twister.
He was a very good young man
(A comp, his social station),
And at devouring “ stamps " ho was
A terror in the nation,
Ono day ho kissed her fondly (this
A woman seldom vexes).
And said—“ We’ll to the plomc go.
And I’ll stand all the cx.'s.’’
“ It is a tomp’ranco fake,’* said he
(A smile ner face did pucker),
« Ifs two bob for the tickets, and
All cart along their tucker.’
K oxt mom they took the boot (It was
Ono of those paddle-wheelers).
And joined the picnic : that was called
“ F6te of the Bun-Concealers.”
Loud hymns were sung, and prayers were said,
Until Jim’s little lady
Bogan to pout and then to shout,
This is a picnic shady !”
They landed soon, sat on the grass,
To hoar a “ tall" oration j
Aud Jim foil fast asleep bofore
X'ho second “ illustration.”
Ho woko up in an honr or less,
Q Bte damp, as it had drizzled.
And then he raw his Laura had
Mysteriously " mizzled."
Ho was about to give a call
And ev’rywhero look for her.
When, lo! he dropped across a fay.
Far fairer than his Laura.
AVhcn all steamed back, of his sad loss
Jim Brown was no deplorer;
And not a word about it fell
From the red lips of Laura.
They’d spent a most delightful day,
Both said : and they both meant it;
Bnt, neither bothered to explain
Tho way in which they’d spent it.
How nice these moral picnics are
(A fig for sports and cricket I)
Wifisn there’s a holy outing next,
You bet we’ll take a ticket.
TEMORA TROUBLE.
“ Criminal Libel. —On Tuesday last, the criminal
libel case of A. J. Stockyard Wehr, editor of (lie
Tkmoba Stab, against W. H. L. Bailey, was hoard at
tbo i’olico Court, and resulted in a dismissal.”—Eusnc
Eaci.
Webr swore i i Court, upon the Bible
'Jhat on him Bailey wrote a libel.
At this bold Bailey gave a grin, it
Seemed ns if ho gloried in it!
The Warden, in judicial place,
With patience, listened to the case ;
‘ And when he’d gouged its num'rous phases.
He told Hi am both to go to •
THE HON. S. C. BROWN. THE NEW POSTMASTER-GENERAL.
THE HON. F. B. SUTTOR, THE NEW MINISTER FOR PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
“ All humid-eyed and bsuded-kneed.
To thee, great journalist, I plead.
Not for myself—ah I no—
But for those toiling ones, who need
Some cheerful lit’rature to read.
And to your pages go.
Tour items, pungent, brisk, and witty,
Are road by thousands in this city j
But each delighted reader
Longs fas the msidon’s henbt fob Hymef;
Or Wakeful rats for sleeping piemen,)
To smash your new “ two-feeder.”
Go dynamite the thing, and sky it
So very, very quite too high—it
Ne’er may rile us more;
Or, for a mangle—splendid plan—
Dispose of it (that’s if you can)
To Mary of Garccar.
It’s true that, for a week Or so.
Our crack two-feeder didn’t go
Quite well—it being new;
But, Harry, you your hot 1 1 <au bet
That that’s n fact which wo regret
A great deal more than you.
But that’s no reason, silly boy.
Why we should our machine destroy
By dynamite or fire.
On this assurance you may rest,
O n ** •'■orst, is better than the best
Of Bennett’s Evening Like,
We do not ” run ” upon onr print-
otil' paper sells for what is iti’ti
Its genius bears thS highist ifillit.
Its hmneur isn’t thlja. ,
And that is why thbre’s such a rage
To gloat for hours on every page;
And men of every rank and age
Mustfbuy Tlie Bui.tEinl;
He’s the kind of man who’ll slink.
With bis might and main, all work,
Just as long as he can crunch
In a pub. a big free lunch.
He’s a man to whom is dear
The historical " long beer;”
Who is e’er on the look out
For a friend to make him. “shout.”
Yon can see this man in hosts
With bis back r.gaihst ntib. pOstsj
Clinking in the lift jit of day (
While he sucks a blackened clay.
What a " jhrow in'* it will be
For the folks across tho sBa,
What rejoicings in the State,
When be lands at “ River Plat*',”
¥et, how many inoilths ft ill blidlj
Ere once more upon tho tide;
He’ll be ” hauling in the slack”
On a ship that’s coming back ?
Ob, holy men, wo hold you iu
Tho deepest veneration ;
Wo know that yc are void of sin,
Detest vituperation.
No anger could within you live ;
At our dark ways your sighing ;
To comfort you do ever strive
Tho living and the dying !
Wo set you on a pedestal.
Of honour and of glory;
And figure, glorious men, you shall
In future song and story 1
The hell's for us, no matter though
Wo like it or we “lump it;”
For ye, the radiant heaven’s glow.
The white wings and the trumpet.
8
November Id, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Mne, from tho Williamtown Junction ? Oh, tbe naughty
ndfc." “Ted says ho can afford to go out a little
m m now. Train fare saved ’’ “ Who was the young
l#dr wflti a gentleman’s overcoat on l*«t Btmday night
in Commertfial-.road, Prahran r’’ ** Who is that fair
foflhg nllin at S’Oight’s, that thinks all the girls are in
IfivS with him ? You make a mistake, Jick S.’’ There ,
are likewise some * circular notes,” which are nothing
but a scries of bald-headed circus " wheezes.” a? tho
following specimen will indicate :—“ One good turn is
as maoh as you can expect from a cheap silk." It is
no wonder, therefore, that when you compliment a
Melbourne man upon the wondrffus print wo are
noticing, ho immediately begins looking about for a
piece of road-metal. Wo.see by the imprint that it ia
published from Melbourne Punch office, and it has
oven boon rumoured that well-known men have taken
to writing for it. It so, wo : will at once cheerfully
admit that, in their strenuous effort? to bring their copy
within the comprehension of every errand boy and
Bonllory-maid in the metropolis, they have boon emi-
nently successful. Wo consider tint wo should be
Wanting In oqr duty to common-sense if wo did uot
tia obrate this Journalistic monster in a few liquid line?.
And liora they are
Tho Paris letter in Monday’s Pknny Morning
Fhrivel, is a production which should shod a ray of
glory upon tho head of tho man of Murrnruudi. Hays
our contemporary’s oorro poudout, speaking of lot-
tones:—"Some Monarchal (sic) editors bought tickets,
8) that party feeling, after all, does not run high in
Prance.” Then, a little lower down " Emile de
Qirondln was a taskmaster in comparison ; he insisted,
a publicist ought to produce one idea per day—say tho
half for tho morning and the other moiety for tlie after-
noon edition of the journal." Those items would be of
absorbing interest but foil two small particulars. There
is no such a thing as a “ Monarchal editor," and
* Emile de Qirondiu ” never existed.
In Saturday’* instalment of Alfred’s novel in
the Evening Crusher, tl e hero suddenly exclaim# —
“At that instant Iha I graiped a dew." Our advice to
hint it to sell hia vest aud grasp a spelling-book.
* * *
From the Adelaide Eoctie “ The editor of
the Bulletin has boeu appointed (sic) special cor-
*o#pondent for the London Fra. All communications
to be addressed to Bulletin office." We sincerely
congratulate the Era uyo’n the brilliant genius it Las
chosen to represent it "in the - laud of ff mr. If that
journal goes on exhibiting enterprise like this, it will
soon make a name iu tho world. Another correspon-
dent ia a gentleman whoso critical acumen iu matters
tnwKHcal Is only second to that of Fruucisquo Sarcoy
himself. He is always at the. theatre ou first nights in
a dazzling display of shirt front and a pair of clean
Books. Ue also mounts a noto-book, something
size of an artist’s portfolio, and a pencil only a little
smaller than a blind man’s crutch. Ho places himself
in n conspicuous position, so that he can be seen from
the stage, and be passes the evening wildly making
notes and vigorously applauding. In the course of a
ws< k he writes enough cl .vVii to form a three-volume dis-
sertation ou the Australian drama, vet. sad to sav, they
boil it down in London to a stick of “bourgeois” a
mouth. When he receives the paper, he goes the whole
round of the profession, beginning at the Boyal, and
ending at the Circus, aud religiously rends the few
inches of “slam” to any actor or actress (hat will
listen to him. Such is, ladies and gentlemen, another
art-critical correspondent of the London iiiiA.
Thorn la nti alderman np Orange way who oan
draw on bis imagination at sight, and yet Hover have a
single bill di->hotlct)ttcd. Just to while away the
monotony of discussing the sewerage i yd.em. 'i i, lie
lately told his brother eon pirn tors an exceedingly
fishy fish fiction (good line ! hat for a bor/.y brother to
read aloud), and it jogged along in this wise: Having
let down bis hbok tor s. bite it seems tbia worthy Father
fastened on to a tremendous e.o l, which towel him
several miles up the Murrumbidgee in the fastest time
on record, and in all probability both captive and captor
would have reached Mon nr, Poole on the following day
only for the timely arrival of two bull-punchers who
hitched on their team’, and hauled the Leviathan up
on to term Anna. When opened, the fish was found to
contain a whole sheep, om' chest of drawers, a oopv of
the Tows and Country JountfAi, one of Moulder’s
tamo emus, four cease, a copy of Ooralwsou (he Elu.
cation question, 70 paid up shMresiu the Milbnrn (ha ck,
a pair of stays, t vo quarts of carbolic acid, and a box
of oranges, addressed “To my friend Per tie. with (he
kind regards to hi a pa and nip, of - Jon Davies ’’ Soldmie
or Billy Wilson might swallow this Alderman’s fish, but
our facial aperture couldn’t plant his tail.
Wo regret to say that the gentleman who has
the contract for doing Tift; Buliktis’s “revised cdii.iou"
has been bo indisposed of late that the work h is got. on
as slow os a “ peeler” going to a r'rtot tight in the blue
metal country, but hero wo go with tho second number
entitled—
“THE BUTLER AND BAKER’S DREAMS.”
1 Now it came to pass that two eunuchs (the chief
butler and the chief baker) of the king of the land
offended their lord, and they were cocordincly ‘ run
in” and “ boosted up” for fourteen days without tho
option.
2 And being “Jugged" they were placed order the
command of a select committee, which cut their hair,
gave them raiment of broad arrow pattern (this being
the king’s own seal), and mode them do a Wigzell bath
nnder the prison pump at tho fourth hour each morning.
3 But the keeper of tho prison said he was just about
“ Jack” of tho pair, and tho whole affair began to stink
with an exceeding great perform ry.
4 So ho handed the jokers ever to the care of one
Joseph, who was a comely youth of tho tribe of Salo-
mon.
5 And Joseph, coming to t)io oakum-rickers. one
morn, lifted up Ills voice, and said : “ Why to-day is
your face like a ha’penny kite; and why is your lip as
long as a tailor’s memory ?”
6 But they answered; “ To, we have dreamed a
dream ; and. pickle our bloomin’ shirts, i£ there’s a
galoot about who can riddle it off for us.”
7 Thou Joseph said: “Give it lip, myfiionds, and
relate tho trouble.”
3 So the chief butler told his dream first, and said :
" Behold, a certain ruler came to me in my sleep, and
said, * Friend, d’ye vaut to puy a vatch,’ and I, making
answer, said the spondoolicks were not procurable.
ff To which tho ruler replied ! “ The Waltham ticker
is yours f >r nisv; tilt when the time comas, remember
me. and shove in a word for rue with Fbaro.ll."
10 Joseph answered tbm : ")rcu're as safe as a mort-
gaged church or a dead nigger. Phuroah will cut up
rough at first; but (he High Priest will remember thy
past services, and pull you through by the skin of your
teeth. K<>w late my tip for it."
11 Then tho chief baker said : “ My dream weul thus-
wise. I dr. amt I saw a large mine which, little by
little, spread out, aud coaxed iu numerous - harc’aolders
and divers scrip fr >m the land of the Chaldean.
.12 And, a gro 't trouble coming over the mine, 1
agreed to make straight tho crooked ways; aud rising
ip I commanded the ruler of tho land te ante over
•vhut was duo to CoCsar And t this was done in bullion
13 And, taking this bullion into my own hand, I care-
fully counted it first, and then passed over what was
right to tho children of t he Chaldean.
It Joseph answered : This is tho interpretation. In
three days you will bo shot out of Pharonh’s court for
good like a Roman candle, and it weuld be a bully ob)
job for tho land if a legion in ire got the “run”—just to
keep vou company.
15 Now these things happened on tho Bth day of the
9th mouth whan Loftus Rex squatted ou his Ibteeu
shillingy throne; and if tho reader and ,ea not believe, he
can verily do the other thing.
* • *
The bobbles at West Maitland run
A few poor topers in, for fun.
Or first they’ll shove, aud (hen abuse.
E’en harmless couples talking uews;
But start a row; and then, of course.
Non cst is each man in tho force.
Well! really now, how very queer,
lu’s just tbe same iu »ydney hvre 1
* # •
Alfred ia onco more to the fore with a piece of
original music, which piece, by the w.iy. was published
duri g the reign of Pontius Pilate. The uame of the
composer is Donizetti, aud when ho ia not engaged iu
composing, ha grooms A’frcd's horse, milks tho cow,
and slips over the road fur a quart for thirsty compos.
Ah usual, Iho first note iu the boss o K the now marceau is
wrong (being F sharp instead cf D); the accompani-
ment ia weak and thin us a plate of loch ia -house soup,
and the word# (It the Imfiody about us w ,11 as the Hon.
Lucas’ obi pants would fit the talented little Dominic
f-'onsee. We are authorised, however, to state that a
Cobar squatter has ordered four tons of the last T. and
C , and pail tho cash down in advance. Tie uses the
music to poison native dogs with ; and whenever tho
blacks are troublesome, be sings one verso > f “ My Old
New England Home," and the nigge'S either roll over
aud die on tho spot, or they scoot away us if tho can-
vasser of a religious rag were round.
On a woman at Menindie drawing Sweetmeat in
Miller and O’Brien’s CnpSweep, she received the follow-
ing “ wire ” from the upright proprietors < f the “ Con-
sultation —"lf owner of horse drawn iu No. 1 can
buy half inteiest, will rua for place; if not, will
scratch; reply." The Australasian challenged Mr.
Ivory, the owner of the horse, to prove he bad nothing
to do with this business, but as he Old not reply,
pist#tl him as follows:—" We submit that no differ-
ence of opinion can possibly exist as to the breach op
confidence which this man Las been guilty of to his
numerous clients, who have, up to the present time,
greased the fat hog, and put over £.’>o,ooo, in commis-
sions alone, into his greedy maw." If tho morality of
turfites doesn’t quickly begin to improve, wo shell
soon think that they arc not even a cut above picriic
policemen.
Wo did believe in consul tat ions.
Considered sweeps too fair by far;
But now our trn >t so innocent
TIjs got a pretty nasty jar.
No matter, let the merry Al-ller
Take this first of our suggestions :
Build a church, and then they’ll book him
“ One first —heaven," and no questions.
Accomplished this h.a« often itceu.
If you doubt ua— ask the Dean, ,
‘ « * •
“ Moodie has obtained a verdict of 10 guineas at
tho local court against Joabcrt, for the words of the
Exhibition Cantata.”
El win Cook, the pious Domain rooster, on being l
asked by the Water Police C mrt Bench, theoth«r dm,
if he’d be a good boy and drop making a national fool of
himself, pointed deliberately at the sitting Solous, and
said “lie would make no compromise with the devil or
any of his agents.” Come right nlong with your bar.
row, Edwin. You’re snfo for a life engagement on this
paper ns tho champion x>opper and salter.
BRIEF MENTION.
Truth is mighty—mighty scarce, just now.
Wo want Parliament not to bo prorogued but
ex-rogued.
It is a wise Premier that knows his own watch.
At least, so Thomas tells us.
If your desire for wealth intense is,
Wind up a Co., and taka “ expense?. - '
Mercury went over tho sun on Tuesday. Un-
fortunately it baa boon all through him before this 1
It may be well for Parliament men to boar in
mind that a man’s character is like a fence —it cannot
bo strengthened with whitewash.
Opportunity has hair in front, but is bald behind
—so catch ou while you can. You may never get rn
equal chance at quashing political c >rraptioa again.
The scientists say chat a man’s body is com-
posed three-fourths of water—which shows that the
said scientists are not acquainted with the Press of
Sydney.
Town Hall foundations —Gas Company dodges
—Milburn Creek conspiracies—what next —and next ?
And, as the Y.M.O.A, would say, ‘‘all this in a Ktr-
rish-tyn land."
From Adelaide Punch (illustrated): — “ He;
I wonder if that tree feels pain on being cut with the
axe ? She : Can’t cay, I’m sure, but you might ax it."
This is truly a Punch joke!
Though long delayed, it’s come at last to those
North coast blacks. They speared a Chinaman, an*,
thinking him already nicely browned, polished him «.b
raw. Btrange that they didn’t touch his boots.
A widow, who beeps a pub. somewhere nei j
Bathurst, recently drew Zulu iu Jones’s sweep. Tm
i auio afternoon si 6 was called upon by throe tempo .
unco magistrates, a Baptist minister, two other pul
licaus (widowers), aud tho town clerk, aud, curiou^
Halt, chronicle of beery bars !
No little pub. shonld llont theo;
For when tho pot-boy got- in print,
His ‘ girl" can’t do without thee.
The scavenger will buy the mg.
And to the dust man quote it;
Hu’s interested in the par ,
Because, yotl see; he wrote it I
The fact'ry wench will buy it, too,
And con it ev'ry minnte;
She thinks it beautiful, because
Her 'batman Bill is in i*.
The greasy cook sits on the pink.
Forgets tho tripe that’s stewiilg,
Aud spells the garb igo through to find
Out what her friends are doing,
A “journal of society”
Thbk Call it without enllory,
Bdi why not add that they mean the
Society of the sculler;/ 7
A SOUTH COAST ROMANCE.
The boy stood on the pathway there.
When she to rest had fled,
A ud watched the flickering caudle’s glare
That lighted her to hoi.
Yes, bright and beautiful lie stood.
Nor guessed the g ithering storm ;
A creature of s>me Northern blood—
A proud, though youthful f<smi.
The light went out; he would uot go
Without hu M oldie’s word.
But Maude was fast asleep below—
Uis whistle was not heard.
And still he whistled ou the path.
Nor would ho yet bo gone;
Ho dreamt not of h r father’s wrath,
Aud fast he whistled on.
Her father’s boot lit on his
Kruest—Oh I where was he ?
Ask of the neighbours living near,
Or far as you can see.
So ended that sweet dream of joy;
Aud now, still strewn around.
The relics of that scattered hoy
Can to this day be found.
O aoul-iuspriring bard, ’tia sad to think
For this small sum that thou shouldst squirt thy ink,
Birst forth in rhyme, squirm in poetic throes,
For what would purchase but. a suit <-f clothes !
This, Duucin, too, in thine adopted land.
When thou nu piped it’s “ vales and gleaming strand;”
Wheoz don it's "moua’ains," hiccupped on it’s streams.
And bollowo I 'bout its o ini field’s “ golden gleams !”
Ungrateful land, thus to deny thee fame.
Who cane 1 a Minister, and made a nan c;
Perform 1 d a deed which made the world’s heart throb,
Then gave a Zulu pitch for “ forty bob.”
Ten pounds! how can they with that sum degrade ?
No matter, courage! it has not been pai i!
With trenchant scorn thy great voice raise on high, ■
One more cantata write, great bard, and die !
SONG OF THE BLOCK BARITONE.
When I go on the “ Block,"
Tho girls I always knock;
All tighing and burning,
Aud clinging and yearning,
Thoy follow me in a flock.
They love to hear mo sigh.
To watch my " speaking ej’o ;’’
My style is so “ utter,”
It makes their hearts flutter.
As I go mincing by.
HE WOULDN'T GO! MUTINY AND DESERTION.
O mighty man of Murrurnudl,
How we yearn to see theo one day,
Mark down upon thy brain each item,
And on theo gloat while thou dost write ’em!
The more of thy m st foreign scrcod
It is our happy lot to read
(And of it we would never tiro !)
The more we madiy it admire !
The reason, noble scribe, of course, i?.
We cannot glean from other sources
The marvels which with pen s > sprightly
Thou dost enchant us with fortnightly !
Is’t Inspiration from tho stars.
That gives theo thy Parisian pars. ?
Or dost thou dream them, Junius, speak,
Upon the banks of Quart Pot Creek ?
No matter ! wo can only sigh.
The breezes waft us no reply !
Whan we want Gallic copy_too,
We’ll send a man to Jamberoo.
LAUNCH OF THE PHANTOM SHIP.
Tljo dancing waxes with rhythmic roar.
Laved with t li.'iP foaai the Hal main shore.
Swift or. the skv tho cloudlets How,
And flecked with white the hcav’xily blue !
There was a rumpus on the strand,
The main was speck’d with many a wherry.
And crashed a furious fireman's baud,
Hard by the Danins' HarLrmr Ferry.
The cry went up, “ Jlurroo, hip hip, hip,
11 They’re goin’ to launch the Phantom Ship."
Wo held our breath, when with a crash
Some sylph the champagne 11 .sk did smash.
And—tremble future ages !—slow
She glidid down into the flow.
Wo Rank down in our boat, for then
A crowd of corsair-looking men
Rose from the ho’d, and with a whoop
Thtir cutlasses waved on the poop.
*' Hi, ha !’’ they cri. d iu voice of thunder, —
“ Hurrah, far blood! three cheers for plunder !"
Wo woko then, and we looked around.
But not one corsair could he found :
All that remained of those fierce chaps,
Was half a bottic of strong schnapps.
9
THE BULLETIN.
Horember 19, 1881.


RILEY BRO
THE CHEAPEST DI
IS
AUSTRALIA
\
JJEFOEE PURCHASIN
BEAD THIS ]
AND SAVE FIVE SHILLINGS
YOU HAVE TO LA
Hoi-rocks’ kmgcloth. 3,f I
American longcloth. 2jd
Nightshirt calico, 41 I
Grey calico, 2| 1
Double width calico, 7ld
Pillow calico, 61 I
Swansdown calico.
White flannel, 7?d
Firemen’s flannel. lljd
Wide flannel, I t Id
Scarlet flannel, 7«l
Saxony flannel. Hi I
Cotton tick. 3Jd
Linen tick, 7id
Stripe bed tick, sid
Unbleached sheeting, 711
White sheeting, 71d •
Twilled sheeting, Old*'
Mosquito net, CW
Summer quilts, 2s lid
Honeycomb quilts, 2s. lid
Coloured quilts, 2s 6d
White blankets, 5s lid
Vallanoe nets, did
Bed fringe, 2id
Marcella covers, 7|l
Honeycomb covers. 10id
Bedrct) n towo’s, 2|d
Path towels, 6d
Wide matting, 7id
Stair oil cloth, Sfd.,
passage oil cloth, SVP
Table oil cloth, ,1s 3d
Table damask, 811 <•
tnnen damask, la ftl
Table napkins, 3d
Table covers, 2s 01
Lacs curtains, 3s lid
Window holland, 6id
Green window holland. Pld
Striped do. holland 10Id
Velvet hearthrugs. 5s lid
Roller towellings, 2|d
Wide osnabnrg, 51 1
Butchers’ serge, Is 3d
Twill shirting, did
Crimean shirtings, 6id
Brown holland. 3Jd
White diaper, 61<i
Fronting linen, Is
White marcella, la
Pique muslin, 9d
Book muslin, did
Jacconet for hoods, 7id
Haircord for hoods 71d
Leno muslin, did
Pompadour prints, 3JI
Fancy prints, 2|d
Check prints, d|d
Cambric prints, 61
Satteen prints, 711
Cheek ginghams, 3fd
Black alpaca, 61<1
Coloured lustre, 611
Beige dresses, did
Dress materials, did
Black crapes. Is 61
Black cashmeres. Is
Black French twill, 7sd
Black Australian crape. Did
Black silk gloves, Is
Black satin parasols, 3s lid
Black gros grain, 2s 3d
Black silk. Is 6d
Silks, all colours, 2j lid
Slate Silesia, 2|d
Black
Hook
Brool
Mach
Black
Bugle
Passe
Cashc
Cheni
Print
Masft
Silkc
Satin
Ladle
Gent. 1
Childi
Laeiiei
Bast 1
B'nek
f- ilk g
Thrcn
Men’s
Ladici
Embr
Tarlal
Swiss
Begisl
Streai
New r
Woun
Stripe
Unble
Navy,
Girl’s
9S
Man’s
Men’s
Bor s’
Ladle:
Ladhe
G rls’
Ladle:
Cherr;
Garde
Boys’
Boys’
Plants
Ladies
White
Ladies
Trimn
Trimn
Trimn
Cbildr
Baby 1
Cbildr
Childr
Infant
Infant
Mcrim
Cbildr
Black
Goat’s
Evan’s
Gilonr
Hank <
Hairpi
Blockc
Flowei
Ostriol
Victor
Thimb
Linen
Elastii
Darnh
i-oz. b
FOR BOYS’ WEI
Eiley Brothers’ Straw Hat:
Kilev Brothers’ Felt Hats.
Eiley Brothers’ White Shii
Riley Brothers’ Working S
d:i^— DaA
Tweed suite, 10* 6d
Summer suite, 19s Gd
Bike’s tweed, 19; 61
Cloth pagets, 15s
Tweed pagete, lot
Tweed sics, 8 i Cd
Walking coats, 153
Linen coats, 4a 6d
Office coats, 4s G1
Alpaca eack, 5; lid
Moleskin trou-era, 3s lid
Tweed trousers, 3s 6J
Doeskin trousers, 5; Ci
Bliss’s tweed, 7a 6d
Best trousers. 7# 6d
Black cloth, 13s 9d
Trousers and vest, to
match, 9s 61
Best tweed, 13s Oi
White shirts, 2! 61
Military fronts, 2s 6i
Oxford shirts, 2* lid
Kcgatta shirts, 2s 6d
Flannel shirts, 2s lid
U ndershirts, Is 61
Working shirts, Is 6d
I) mblo backs, Is Gd
Shakespeare hats, 3j 6d
Pocket hats, 8s 6d
Felt hats, 2s 6d
Mtraiv bats, 2s 6J
Cricketing huts. Is
Plastic braces, 6d
Linen collars, 4Jd
Cotton socks, 3d
Seamless socks, 61
Silk umbrellas, 7s 6d
Gent’s Hard kerchiefs, lid
£2 PARCELS seat Carriage Paid by Railway ot
Steamers to any town.
£5 BALES of any articles of Drapery Carriage Free
all over the colony. We have seat away over 30,000
Bales, all giving great satisfaction.
We have pleasure in stating that not one of the host
of imitators of our celebrated £5 system now exists.
KILE? BROTHERS,
THE
CHEAPEST DEAPEESIN AUSTEALIA.
t’ncmgti, ttol otto of these gentlemen had heard of her i
fcood fortune I
TKo S. A. Chronicle Bays thAl cintlng
humbug, Thorpe, tvho was rep'c.olly to two
years for nobbing ttfe.6luik Of VWwHa, must bo mad.
W«thiujr 30 too. Had with rUgtlfery.
A. Mail! (Old chilli, last Sunday week.
Returned Ift)m church, was heard to speak,
service is, I know,
PI) teach mo what I ought to dough!“
In the passage at the Central. Old lady to seedy
individual (out on bail): ’* Whet-e do yon go to get a
summon"!, sir, 5 a •poliCero&'A told me to turn to the
right." ” Then tftrt tO the left," was the grull reply
Those who anticipated Mr. Garrett’s expulsion
from the Assembly must have been rather sold by the
unexpected result of the division. No wonder the
House was tamed upside down when the aamtt became 1
ftorlUr.
The Brisbane Cricket Club is high-toned. The
members objected playing a rival team because it in-
cluded a Kanaka. And yet there was not a single mem-
ber of that eleven who didn’t, at supper time, eat peas
with a knife.
The MeUrtiHne rag says Which of the
Preston bowlers displayed such a stock of * Red
Cross f * Someone "aid he wanted to see his name in
the Bnv.uTiN." What’a his address now—Kew or
Yaxx* jdand ?
Coincidence! Er.ekiel (Prophet), £nd chapter,
10th verse : " And there was written therein (the book)
huueKtutiens (tud mohrftin j and voe." Ezekiel (Minister
fer Hines), sud year, loth month): " Lamentations and
bsomoving and woo.”
Baring one of the speeches I&et Thursday night
• upon the Milburu Creek business, Mr. Forster inter-
Isolated a Latin quotation! If Mr. (Sarreti had Quoted
from any ©f the dead languages, Wo BuppOSe he WoHld
Lave selected AiVif Greek.
fac'CtioUs misogynist is about the
euhurbs, playfully slabbing ftoinen with a sharp knife
Wl degger, and th'eii tWnning away down some back
Winy to The daily pape.rs grimly hope the
con-.sftft-ulsry will soon put a stop to these practical
Jokes-
The vainest man in this Continent is the editor
bf the Western Champion, a Blaukall it) ) paper. Ho
commenced an article on October ?.l thus:—“The
editor of the Sydney BVibbEtlN, who writes for the
Great Unwashed-’' lie evidently fancies he is our only
uabecribelr.
honorable members plumped for Garrett’s
uitljal on Thursday last. Our bibio readers may
real ember this was exictly the number of those other
honorable members who were so carefully squelched by
AU Baba. Open srscnU* Was the watchword then—to-
day it is " accept m.y resignation."
Befctrinjf to the “ work of art,” which the
illustrious author of the Sydney edition of the FoR.
we*> Fate is to present this Christmas to the sub-
scribers of the T. and C , the LVrb says There is
both humour and spirit in it” This is exactly what
was said a few weeks ago of a D. T. crititpi).
Quoting tho prices of farm proclrtOo-, tke PSnwt
Bennett carefully informs Os thdl Soiktherh eggs are
worth Is. per clofcen, whilst Northern ones only total
oJ. It this is an oggsftct slate ot the poll, wo want to
know are the Northern fowls all bantams, or do they
hold their fruit a week before they lay it ?
Wo notice with a 40-horse power satisfaction
thttt tteel spurs for cockOghting are now publicly ex-
posed for sale in eomv of our ironmongers’ windows.
This is a sure sign that onr love for the refined and
beautiful is rapidly growing day by day, and that for
the future it’s U.P. with ladies’ walking tournaments.
The Tewoka Herald, in speaking of an ec-
centric little "cornin’’ sheet, published in Rockhamp-
ton, s&.i s :—" " Mr. M. L. Martin is a cnrracaturiat (sic)
of considerable ability, and wo think ho has plenty ot
scope for hia pencil in a more gonial clime." This is
indeed •* praise from Sir Hubert Stanley.” Praise
from him before he learned to spell.
Sik ladies at St. Kilda, during the Cup week,
engaged a hotel room in which to leave their shawls
*na other light baggage, and a few hours later they
were presented with a bill of £3 3s. for its use. At the
flame place. On the following day, a man had his pocket
picked of The pickpocket was ar-
rested, but the hotel proprietor is still at large.
Daring tho last ten years about four million
Waterloo veterans hare died. The memory of the
great victory will never fade—we’ll have a Waterloo
veteran on hand through all time. The Newcastle
morning CRABwrap is tho last to uncover two ©f the
heroes. Tho editor seems to forget that on the im-
mortal 15th there were numerous desertions.
A certain Professor oF Some ology or other, who
attends n city Church, indulges iu the disgusting pro-
pensity ot expectorating all through the service, much
to the discomfort of those seated around him. If he
only did It quietly, the objection would not ba so great;
but when lie can bo heard in the middle of the church,
hud heavily, too, an accomplishment of that kind cer-
tainly does him no credit.
Aggie—onr own Aggie, surnamed Consnelo—
declares she could never got a pair of tights over here
big enough to fit her. We are sorry our "hearts’
adored" was not in front of the Hou®o one night last
week. There were a "pair of tights" on the path in
front big enough to suit the Chinese giant. Their whole
chat was about "consersashiu an' degerdashin ov
shospllhr moral respesherbiity.” And why was this ?
Journalism is going ahead in Queensland. We
have received a letter from the Rockhampton Laugh-
ing Jackass, which says : —“ Wo will show yon some-
thing. We are going to have lot of wood-cutters and
lithographe stone. Yon will be joly please to get some
items from her bye and byo. la tho same time wo will
frive.it to JOU hot.” All right; wade in, old boy ; only
n pity’s sake don’t give it us quite so hot as you have
to Findley Murray.
With a grateful, aye, oven adoring heart, we
learn “the Town aud Countri Journal is devoting
Spot ill attention to the sugar-producing business.”
That is to say, Alfred has bought a pound of “ four-
penny,” and intends to test by actual experience how
long it will last in a respectable home while Queens-
land rum can be bought for eightoenpence a gallon.
Tho civilized world stands back until Alf. lets out his
saccharine revelations.
Defending a prisoner at tho Ciiminal Court, the
other day, Mr. John Want, in commencing bis address
to the jury, raid “I should not be doing my duty as
counsel if 1 attempted to mislead you.” Whereupon a
juryman, with a keen sense of the humorous, involun-
tarily fjiculnted—“ What are you giving us Fortu-
nately for him Sir Joseph happened to be hunting up
an authority, at the time, or fetters and the Castle moat
would haye been his unhappy lot.
From the Brisbane Telegraph “ Wanted a
young person as housekeeper to bachelor, one child;
working man. Stale ago. Address, Wm. Wilson,'
Port Mackay, P. O.” We advise the young persoa
who goes to take this situation to in her bunk a
bolt or tomahawk and a watchman’s rattle. When her
woik's done, she can then lay her head on her couch in
the ca'in conscious css that she is fully prepared for
emergencies. Port Mackay is a terrible place for—
alligators. Thus gently do we sell the reader.
G. M. Pitt, Esq., &0.. is a born poet, though
one drawback with him is that, like Fitzgerald in
*• English Bards/’ ho is very apt to
" Bawl
His creaking couplets in a crowded hall.”
The other day, at tho Double Bay regatta, he spouted
forth as follows :
*• Far through his azure turbulent domain your empire
owns,
Mon from a thousand shores wafts (sic) all the pomp
of life into your ports.”
You possibly have, ancient Pitt,
, A devil of a lot of wit.
With poetry your noble soul
May thrill, perchance, beyond control;
But wo should tell an awful crammer
If, we said you were strong on grammar.
Letter writing and passing tho billets along
appear to bo the chief amusements of a certain Wool-
labra choir; and the constant chatter of this tuneful
tribe would give a casual observer a sort of hazy idea
that he was amongst a lot of bilious cockatoos in a
thunderstorm. As the choir is placed on the starboard
side of the minister, and as he doesn’t happen to be a
JAnfifi, ire o~ course gladly acquit him of all knowledge
ot this Sunday postal service.
Professor Alfred Storndalo Bonetto and other
distinguished musician l ’ will tu pleased to hear that a
new instrument of tuneful torture has j isb been invented
by a local bandsman. At least, the Tblackam of the
10th, in speaking of a late regatta, says : “ The band of
the Balmain Coldstroams played inspiriting music on
the poop during the dav, under the able oonductorahip
of Mr. E. Kearns.” This is gool for Kearns, but he
ought to have chosen a more euphonious name for his
euphonious weapon,
Old Watson, of the KeW5, has
been lecturing upon '* Missionaries In the Bofith Phas,"
all through his district. If aliyttfle will guarantee ns a
fair amount of Srtppoft, g6t ns some decent printing, a
full’tohed b'Altol-oryan, and secure an empty store in a
jjood position, we are open to give a pitch on 11 Mission-
arifsin Hunter-street,” that will rather astonish the
natives. N B — None but principals treated with, and
no one need apply who has not run a tile-show, or
edited a religious paper.
The CooivtA. EXPRESS saya i—“ Pitiable igno-
rance on thB part of some otto Was apparent On the
night of Settling, when the footers, trainers, and
grooms W ro proposed before the Press #as thought
of.’* When tna cliiUHBSn toad this, he called rSund to
see the editor, and raid, “ Bag.pardon, but general ira-
frcsslon is that yon were drunk long before the
rainorg.” _ Ah apology thns frankly tendered in these
graceful tprais, will doubtless bo suitably acknowledged.
We pant for the next issue.
Another good man gone wrong. Brother
Hughes, an eloquent amateur divine, recently preached
a powerful sermon in a Melbourne ohtirch, taking for
his text the words, “ Thou ohalc not steal.” Next day
he wept oij, with £->5OO worth of load, the property of
Ilalgetty, Blackwood, and Co., and nf>w the sons of
Belial have shave 1 his head, and make him wash once a
week or thereabouts. The labourer is worthy of Ms
hire, and cracking stones is about the fittest labour tor
Messrs, Hughes and Co. to bo set to.
“ I want you to BOTjd fdr ffiy washing, my pood
woman,” said a "ost office clerk, “ and I hope T shall
find yd'A ah improvement upon the last laundress I had.
She got drnnk a month ago, and hasn’t been for my
washing over since.” 11 A moiiths’ washing, sorr,”
exclaimed tho laundress; “ thin oi’ll send the cart
round this night.” The vehicle called in duo course,
and carried away—two shirts, two pairs of sok’, three
pairs of culls, one handkerchief (coloured), and a'
"dickey.” Such is the recklessness ot youth in these
high-pressure times!
In alluding to a charge made for tho freight of
pictures from tho Adelaide Exhibition to Western
Australia, the L. Y. Gazette thero, in order to show
that it is well read in modern novels, concludes a par.
as follows:—“ Mantalinl says, 'lt’s shabby, shabby;
oh I dent’d shabby, yol\ knfiw," Mafifalini, of course,
never said anything 8f the kind. If he had. in all
probability the Adelaide rag wo alhlle to wod’d have
pdt ih soriiejbhing else. Bad journalists are like bad
pfiblicans. The former addltorate their authors, and
thelattfir do their drink.
Erdrfi llkrat.d :—“ Has Minx for-
edttfin or changed mind? Alfred.” We thought so !
This comes of novel writing. Once a man begins with
his mighty brain to evolve these terrific rommees, he
must, when his imagination is temporarily exhausted,
seek living models for bis heroes and heroines. Minx,
it seems was to have sit for the baroness in “ Slugs and
Slaughter,” tho now thriller which is now on the stocks
in Pitt-street, but she didn’t tnrn up. We do not be-
lieve, however, that her ab’cuce was intended. Our
opinion is that they were late paying the poor thing olf
at the factory that day.
The Native difficulty in New Zealand has at last
reached a step when nothing else but war to the
knife,” *' vac victis," and bn lnd I be-lnd I can atone for
the fiendish insult offered to the grand old flog of
Britain. In other words, tho Native Minis'or (Mr.
Bryce) actually told the Heraed’s "special” to got’
Satan, and mind his own business. But that ** spco'al”
took a prompt and dire revenge. Ho took tea with
To Whili, who chewed a bowl of poi for the despised
Pakoha with his own regal gums, and active steps are
now being taken to degrade the bandit Rryce by pub*
ll’htog his life and photo, in the AnekEAltD Male.
An Ingenious writes has just discovered the rea-
son Why nOn-snlokiug people crowd into smoking car-
riages in trains. Out of every forty smoking carriage
travellers, tin correspondent believes that at least
twelve are men who labour under the delusion their
creditors are after them, leaving a surplus of twenty-
eight to be accounted for. Of the latter, teu other non-
smokers are men who go to a smoking-carriage to get
out of the way of their wive’. The remlining eighteen
split up just as comically. Six can’t smoke, and
wouldn’t if they could; six really do smoke; and the
remaining six are simply small-pox patien's, who have
been told that the best cure for this terrible disease is
a few hours’ daily ride in a chamber well fumigated
with tobacco smoke.
There has been much heart-burning at Temora,
of late. It. appears, the other morning, that a lawyer
entered the Court, and nodding to Tibbits Iwho was
remanded for murder) in the dock, said —" H)w are
you, B )b, old boy ?” but took no notice whatever of
the reporters. When asked for an explanation later,
he said that one bleeding corpse he could shudder at and
forgot, but eternal bleeding syntax chilled bis heart
and froze his marrow. He then went to the watch-
house, shook hands with tho drunkards, patted the
thieves upon tho back, and subsequently called at both
the newspaper offices and withdrew his subscription from
«ach. Gloom, therefore, furrows two journalistic
brows, and twenty ink-stained fingers itch to shed
forensic gore and tear out legal entrails.
Throe females stabbed in our public streets,
and the fi md who did tho deed walks as slowly and as
coolly away as if he were one of our paid constabulary.
It is consoling, however, to know that our paternal
Government is making superhuman efforts to track the
scoundrel down and then deal ont the most rigorous
justice. That is to say, it has offered £5O reward to
anyone who cap spnro the time, expense, and trouble
of securing the slabber’s conviction. This is exactly
half the sum which a cockatoo squatter offered to
secure tho arrest of the skunk who ham strung his
cart-horse! No man can now trust his wife or sister
in our streets alone, and £5l is all we can spare to help
•his trouble. Whv, Pomoll would spend that lot in
defence of one of Ills Brahmapootra roosters.
gamit-looking man forced hia way into
onr editorial sanctum the other day, and seating him-
self unbidden upon one of tho ormolu and satin chairs,
he said, “Sir, I’m a very ill-used man. I —” “Wait,”
we replied, hurriedly stopping him. “You’re wild
because the member for vour district didn’t get, yonr
sixth boy into the Lauds Office, ar’n’t you ?” “ No, the
—” “ The daily papers haven’t reported your speech at
thoWangdoodloCouncil?” “Notthat; vousce —” “A
new idea has strnck von concerning the Milbnrn Creek
imbroglio? ’ "Hardly tbnt, for—” “ You’ve come to
complain because we didn’t give a column about yonr
sister marrying the rag merchant?” “No, sir—”
“ Then.” said wo, looking bock with a sigh of ro’ief,
and picking our teeth with a 25-guinea skewer, " You
may speak.”
“ Ann Higgins got married yesterday, then got
drunk, and as a result passed the night in a cell at the
Central Police Stalion This morning she was fined
10s. or four days’ imprisonment. The husband dii not
appear to pay the flue.” —liss.
You nasty Lyre, to cast a e’ur.
On him as well as upon her !
His story may exempt him quite
From being thought so unpolite !
P’raps he was sick—or lost his clothes ;
Perhaps it thundered or it rained;
P’raps he was, fiom what arose.
Quite “ unavoidably detained.”
“ King Coffee is said to have offered np, as a
propitiatory sacrifice, 200 young girls, who wore ruth-
lessly massacred.” It grieves us to hear that the
Press generally has commented unfavourably upon
this perhaps eccentric, bat still, doubtless, necessary
act on part of his Majesty. So faras we are concerned,
onr reverence for Kings is such that wo decline to ex-
press any opinion upon what, in Ashantee, is probably
a perfectly-legal exercise of King Coffee’s regal tare-
tioas. If his Majesty should get to bo misunderstood,
in consequence ot the repeated attacks ot tho news-
papers. in his own country, we cordially invito hi.a to
visit these shores, and we can assure him ot an elegant
reception. The reception committee will consist ex-
clusively ot libel case jurymen, by whom he will be at
once enrolled as one of their order, after which be will
be taken to the Town H ill and made free of the foun-
dations. So come on, Coffee, dear, to a land where you
will net only be welcomed, but fondled and respected.
The hero of the hour is “ Bro. R. A. Withers.”
"Who, in the name of Mount Vesuvius," erics the
startled reader, "is Bro. B A. Withers ? ” Well, he is
a bard. Ha is inspired. With him, when he snuff s the
m ruing breeze, iambics go in with it. At the ceremony
ol* ay'ng the foundation stone of the new Masonic Hall,
Bro. R. A. Withers wrote the poem It was a volumin-
ous composition—almost as long as Mr. J E. Salomons’s
report, and considerably more humorous. It is divided
into several parts : A Welcome—a Li genii—a History—
everything you can thlak of, indeed, excepting a leading
drticie and the police report’. Poetic gems corruscate
all through it. Here is one of them•
“ Bat three short years, and now how far
Our banner waves! As far as stretches wide
Our dear-loved land ! Our lodges everywhere
Show welcome to the Craft, no matter where I ”
If wo could sing like this, we should do nothing but
write poetry one half the day, and deliver hani-billa the
other naif.
Old Fersry, of the FiSNNt PaßraMAtta
TBOxdJsil Wrap* doesn't consider our leaders so funny
as the rest of Jhe paper. Ha calls them laborious.”
This is good Porgy’a editorials, on the other hand, are
the only things that are fnnny in his diminutive rag.
When he walks about Parramatta reading them, all the
dogs in the district commence to bark j a,nd no nym. Had
ever understood what he fra* aiming.at in bile o’ these
masterly essays, except the keeper of a fried-fish shop,
upon whom the gifted John had lavished an editorial
panegyric. We are not sure, after all. that it was a
fried-fish man. On reflection, we think it was an under-
taker, to whom old Forgv was under obligations for
burying a man who had died suddenly on the Fergu-
soniau premises after reading the old man’s notice of a
concert. Wo can’t understand John’s leaders ourselves;
but then, perhaps, we are not educated up to them
When wo have a little leisure we will begih ora raining
for them by commencing, upon a coiirso of London
Journal and Mist 1 ell ant, varied by a
study of medical pamphlets, and the mentally invig-
orating works of M. Emile Zola.
If you wish to advertise your paper extensively
in the rural districts, slate the local rags Wa wished
for a little publicity in Rockhampton (Q ) the other
day, so wo gave an extraordinary publication there,
called the Lauohino Jackass, n gentle turn, and
the result has been, as wo gleefully anticipated,
a tremendous gratuitous ad. Our little friend,
however, is really angry because wo said his blocks
weie done with a cold chisel on a coflin-lid, and thus
falls headlong into the trap In the issue before us
there is some poetry, which is called the " Mayor's
Ball.” Hero is a gill of it i—
*• To bo made so Very small,
Pol la de da. Tol la de da. •
And you wish you could him maul,
Tol la de da. Tol la dv da.
And over the coals tb hiiill,
Tol Id dh da. Tol la do da.
And sorry you voted at all
Tol la do da. Tol la de da.
Because ho never gave you a call,
Tol la de da, Tol la de da.”
We should like the man whowr>te this to come to
Sydney. We want to make a rise for our uncle’s bonc-
ynrd.
“ I sea, sir,” said a mild-looking party entering
the office of the editor of a morning daily, " that you
are publishing a story of mine in the Gown and Gum-
tree Jumble.” " What story’s that.” asked tho editor,
with his mouth full of biscuit and German sausage.”
‘ Peter’s Revenge.” said the author, "only,” he added.
" you call it * The Gory G’on of the Maniac Murderer.’ ”
11 Well, sir ?” " I thought, perhaps, as I have reserved
the Sydney oopjright, wo might arrange about tho re-
muneration —” " Certainly "—then down tho pipe.
"Hi! put Mr. Ja’per Bilkins down for a free copy of
the Jumble for six months, and give him a couple of
tickets for tho • Aginsoopo.’ and one of those sample
duoks from Kippax’s." “Mr. Blank, the produce
editor, took them home at dinner time," was the
reply. " Confound that fellow I” said the editor, "it
was only yesterday ho collared tho sardines and Christ-
mas cards I had promised to Slocum for a science
article. Never mind; throw in a Combes’s school
report, and a bottle of fruit salt.” Then turning to the
author, who was feebly rubbing his hanta, he said,
"They will attend to you below, Mr. Bilkins. If you
will send us the refusal of your next work when cherries
are in, wo have no doubt wo shall ho able to come to a
satisfactory arrangement. Qoo’d af ornoon 1”
For a truly aesthetic society paper, commend ns
to the Newcastle Fletcher. There was a bazaar held
in tho ooally city not long ago, and some idea of its
magnificence may be gathered from the appended
fl )ral par., which we clip from the journal in question :
‘‘Mesdames Boyd, Davidson, Fanned, Hart, Norman,
assisted by Miss O’Neill and Miss Donald, exhibited
some oraugo trees in wool, fender stool, wool picture,
cushions, six walking-sticks of thirty pieces of wood
each, smoking cap and slippers, shadoof wool flowers
by little girl (Miss Cunliffel. wedding-cake (two guineas),
presented by Mr. Wylie, draft-hoard (Mr. Bnes). hand-
some crewel patterns by the Misses Haanoll, Misses
Dixon, &o ” Bring high-toned, tho paper stops there.
Thus the eager readir is debarred from hearing tow
Mrs. Fiamjam sold tho Dutch-oven to Mick Mori,arty,
and about, the bewitching way in which Miss Marianne
Qabbins disposed of her stock of flit-irons and frying-
pans. It is rather d : sappointing, too, to those in Syd-
ney who have had nothing more exciting to occupy
their mimis than tho Milburn Creek business, not to
know who won the plated cruet in the roffl), and the
name and full titles-of the lady who munificently sent
to the committee those two Dutch cheeses and tho
work-box with tho cracked lid, and the bodkin-case
missing.
For a thoroughly super-superior grovel, com-
mend us ta the Stdnet Morning Herald’s account of
the late Balmain regatta. According to this, the flag-
ship was a charnel-house; the racss about as interest,
ing as the inside of a dead cat; a " want of vitality
amongst the crowd was specially noticed every man
looked as sad and as miserable as if he had just been cut
in two in a steam saw-mill, and every lady felt about as
happy as a toad under a p’ough, till 3 p.m., when—j >y
of joysl—His Exoelleuoy arrived, accompanied by
Lieutenant Nathan, A.D C , Mr. Reginald iiloxapme,
K.CB., Mr. Garbctt. C.0.D., and Mr. Anderson,
1.0 GT. How the battle raged then is best told in the
Herald’s own words, and hero they are After his
Excellency's arrival tho picture was quite changed.
Lord Augustus Loftus and his attendants took up a
position on tho bridge overhead, and from that moment
everything went as merry ns a marriage bell. Weari-
some suspense was dissipated, and a free interchange of
compliments ensued rather too speedily to meet the
convenience of Compagnoui’s people, who were be-
somed by those anxious to drink the health of her
Maj ?sty tho Queen and the Prince and Princess of
Wales.” Lovely! Lovely! Isn’t it? But tho real
facts of the case are not quite so patriotic, lyad the
arrival of Lord Augustus and his odoriferous gang had
about ns much effect en tho show as a pint of cantor oil
would havo on a Darntoy Island mummy.
There was a Chinese funeral the other day at
Tumut, whan the remains of the late lamented Mr. Ah
Mim were c orteijed to tho cemetery by his countrymen.
These wicked pagans did not drag the coffin down the
river after a steamer; they did not put the body in, in
a state of nudity, and pawn its clothes; they did not
even crunch it up into a coffin thre i sizes too small, as
good, honest white undertakers do; but actually be-
haved reverentially all through. The coffin was a plain
black one, and the body, having been carefully pre-
pired, was placed in it outside the hut. The deceased’s
bedding, &), was then b irned. That is healthy. When
all was consumed, tho boss of the party inquired what
was to pay, and at once handed over the cash. That is
honest. Along the road to tho cemetery they scattered
coloured bits of pap .-r. That is harmless. Coming
near town, they told the driver to “ go welly slow, Ah
Mim allee same Englisaeman.” That’s true; deith
equals them. At tho grave the heathen’s aid tho work;
the undertaker did not object, he got paid. Then they
said prayers, deposited coins, burned tinsel paper, put
some fowl, rice, and brandy on the coffin, and filled the
grave, where Ah Mim will lie till they dig him up again,
some day, to transport to his friends in China. Any
one who reads this must at once see how dangerous it
is to have Chinese in the country. The honest under-
taker will surely raise' his voioo against such wicked
want of respect to the dead. No ten pound hearse, no
seven pound coffin, no five pound plumes, no sober
thirty-shilling mutes. Why 1 it’s unbearable. Our
simple and unostentatious system of Christian burial
is in danger—these wretched heathen will bo intro-
ducing cheap funerals next, or some other gigantic evil,
and then the country will be r ained.
10
November 10, 1881.
VMM BULLETIN.


SATURDAY, 19bh NOVEMBER,
WALLACE TOWN, WAVE BLEY.
A FIR3T-CLAISS SUBDIVISION,
CLOSE TO THE TRAMWAY TERMINUS.
8 LOTS FRONTING DOUGLAS STREET
8 LOTS FRONTING KENT STREET
16 LOTS FRONTING BARCLAY STREET.
GOOD FRONTAGES,
GOOD DEPTHS,
SPLENDID OCEAN VIEWS
PRETTY SITES FOR COTTAGES.
MILLS, PILE,~AND GILCHRIST
HAVE received instructions to sell by public
auction,
ON THE GROUND,
OK
SATURDAY, 19th NOVEMBER,
At half-past 3 o'clock,
THU ABOVE
SPLENDID SUBDIVISION,
WALLACE TOWN,
Situate on the slope of the hill, opposite LUGAR BRAE
just beyond the Tramway terminus.
TERMS : 10 per cent, deposit j balance in 18 monthly
payments.
TORRENS’ TITLE. LITHOS. AT THE ROOMS
FREE TRAMWAY TICKETS.
SATURDAY, 26th INSTANT.
IMPORTANT SUBDIVISION.
PARRAMATTA ROAD
HOMEBUSH PLOT.
150 CHOICE BUILDING SITES,
FRONTING PARRAMATTA ROAD
FRONTING PLATFORM STREET
FRONTING M’MILLAN STREET.
EACH LOT 50 FEET FRONTAGE
EACH LOT 135 FEET DEEP.
NO BACK LANES.
TORRENS' TITLE.
MILLS, PILE,~AND GILCHRIST
HAVE received instructions from the proprietors
to Bell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, 26th NOVEMBER,
. at half-past 3,
The ABOVE SPLENDID SUBDIVISION, on
WONDERFULLY EASY TERMS.
£5 DEPOSIT ON EACH LOT.
BALANCE, 20s, PEE MONTH.
REMEMBER THE EASY TERMS—
£S DEPOSIT only on each lot,
LITHOS. AT THE ROOMS.
MILLS, PILE, AND GILCHRIST,
AUCTIONEERS.
THE
GREAT LAND SALE AT RAND WICK!
RAND WICK ! ! RAND WICK ! ! !
ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19,
ST. JUDE’S ESTATE, RANDWICK,
Opposite St. Jude’s Church and the Council Chambers.
FINE BUSINESS SITES,
SPLENDID VILLA SITES.
Lots 1 to 8 front AVOCA STREET,
Lot 1 being a grand corner site.
Lots 9 to 24 front WOODS STREET,
Lots 16 and 17 being capital corner blocks.
Lots 25 to 32 front DUTRUC STREET,
Lot 32 being a beautiful corner site.
The lots vary in frontage from 40 feet to 68 feet, and in
depth from 130 feet to 211 feat.
**• The very best position in the beautiful Suburb of
Bandwick.
Surrounded by the highly-improved properties of
Messrs. Whiting, Watkins, Dutruc, and Stutchbury,
opposite to
ST. JUDE’S CHURCH
THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS
and
THE NEW TOWN HALL.
TERMS :—lO PEE CENT, deposit; balance on the
Company’s terms, viz., 36 MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
The Company will also advance money for the erec.
tion of buildings on the land.
HARDIE AND GORMAN
HAVE received instructions from the DIRECTORS
OF THE ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN Ift VEST.
MENT, FINANCE, AND LAND COMPANY,
LIMITED, to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
on
SATURDAY, 19th NOVEMBER,
At 3.30 o’clock,
The above-described property.
Each lot is marked out by Mr, SURVEYOR REUSS,
Jun.
LITHOS. ARE NOW READY.
EOYAL PARK,
NORTH SHORE, NORTH SYDNEY.
MAGNIFICENT and CHARMINGLY SITUATED
ESTATE.
100 ACRE 3 in AREA.
SUBDIVIDED INTO BLOCKS.
mr SECTION 1.
ALLOTMENTS 1 to 17, each having a frontage of 66
feet to LEOPOLD STREET, by a
depth of 211 feet 6 inches.
ALLOTMENTS 18 to 25, each having a frontage of SO
feat to ALBERT STREET, by a
depth of 132 feet.
ALLOTMENTS 23 to 42, each having a frontage of 69
feet to PARK ROAD, by a depth of
211 feet 6 inches.
9T SECTION 2. »
ALLOTMENTS 1 to 17, each having a frontage of 61
foot to PRINCE’S AVENUE, by a
depth of 211 feet 6 inches.
ALLOTMENTS IS to 25, each having a frontage of 50
f fet oto ALBERT STREET, by a depth
of 132 feet.
ALLOTMENTS 26 to 11, each having a frontage of 66
feet to LEOPOLD STREET by a
dcx>th of 211 feet 6 inches.
«3T SECTION 3,
ALLOTMENTS 1 to 23, each having a frontage of 66
feet to LEOPOLD STREET, by a
d«x»th of 211 feet 6 inches.
ALLOTMENTS 21 to 43, each havinj a frontage of 68
feet to PARK ROAD, by a depth Of
214 feet 6 inches,
«3- SECTION 4.
ALLOTMENTS 1 to 23, each having a frontage of f 6
feet to PRINCE’S AVENUE by a
depth of 211 feet 6 inches.
ALLOTMENTS 21 to 43, each having a frontage of 66
feet lb LEOPOLD STREET, by a
depth of 214 feet 6 inches.
cst SECTION 5,
ALLOTMENTS Ito 8, having a frontage of 50 60 feet
to VICTORIA AVENUE, by a depth
of 177 feet 0 inches.
ALLOTMENTS 9to 48, each having a frontsge of SOfeot
to QUEEN'S PARADE, by a depth
of 220 feet to a 20 feet lace at rear.
ALLOTMENTS 43 and 50, havirg frontages of 50 and GO
feet to ASHLEY STREET, by a
d* pth of 132 feet.
ALLOTMENTS 51 to 81, each having a frontage of 50
feet to PRINCE’S AVENUE, by a
depth of 230 feet to a 20 feet lane at
rear.
SECTION 6.
ALLOTMENTS 1 io 9, each having a fronlage of 50 feet
to ASHLEY STREET, by a depth o»
132 feet.
ALLOTMENTS 10 to 21, each having a frontage of 50
feet to QUEEN’S PARADE, by a
depth of 151 feet 8 inches,
ALLOTMENTS 25 to 27, e ich having a frontage of 63
feet to ADA STREET, by a depth of
130 feet.
ALLOTMENTS 28 to 42, each having a frontage of 50
feet to MITCHELL STREET, by a
depth of 151 feet 8 inches, running
back to CHARLES STREET at the
rear,
ALLOTMENTS 43 to 51, each having rt frontage of 50
feet to CHARLES STREET, by a
depth of 151 feet 8 inches.
HARDIE AND GORMAN
HAVE received instructions to soil by publiq
auction,
AT THE ROOMS,
MONDAY, 21st NOVEMBER,
at 11.30 o’clock,
THE WHOLE OF THE
EOYAL PARK ESTATE,
containing an area of
<far 100 ACRES.
NOTE THE TERMS:
£lO CASH DEPOSIT.
£5 QUARTERLY.
WITHOUT INTEREST.
CALL FOE A LITHOGRAPH.
Special omnibuses will lea-jo Milson’s Point on Satur-
day, 19th November, to give intending purchasers an
opportunity of inspecting the property,
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Sir William Manning ia Primary Judge.
The Prince of Wales ia a first-claea yacbtittan.
Garibaldi has accepted from King Humbert a
yearly pension ot £l2Ol, G Ad !
Colonel Scratchloy has, during the last fortnight,
bean inspecting the Queensland Volunteers.
Peace at Temora ! The Attorney-General will
not file a bill against Dr, Shaw for criminal libel on Dr.
Bannott.
The Hon. Edward Knox has sent Bishop Moor-
house a cheque for £5OO for a stained glass window in
the new Melbourne cathsdral.
Sir Arthur and Miss Kennedy are spending the
summer at Darling Downs. This by no means implies
that Brisbane is too het 'of them.
Sir Arthur Gordon was recently hissed in the
streets of Suva, Piji. The point is the fact —now known
for the first time—that Suva has streets.
Commodore Wilson gained his case at Melbourne*
his action respecting the arrest of the bandsman, Yato-',
having been found to bo perfectly legal.
Professor Tyndall has been aptly, if not cor-
rectly, describe! as "a man whoso aim is to cheer, to
raise, and to guide men, by facta amidst appearances.”
Mr. John Mackey, "the American millionaire;
(Uid his daughter, Eva, now again in Paris; ore received
with princely grandeHr ; Tlid almighty
The Empress toured incognito through
Germany, yet was fioquently recognised and offered a
royal reception. The Empress travelled with a retinue
of tea persons.
For a contribution towards the support of Mrs.
Schmalfuss, only surviving sister of Leichhardt, £5OO is
set down in the supplementary estimates for 1881,
Money well spent.
Queen Victoria is said to hare a remarkable
collection of autographs. 9ho purchased, through an
agent, two of the MSS. of the Disraeli novels, and rot
them for about £So apiece.
The Marquis of Waterford, the peerless scamp,
as tome papers call him, was recently, while hunting,
mobbed by peasantry and assailed. His dogs wore
destroyed with pitchforks—a gross injustice to the
dogs.
Sir John Robertson’s note of resignation of
office is dated Clovelly, Watson’s Bay, 6.30 a m., Nov. 8,
1881. This—we mean the time, of course—was at least
two hours before Sir Henry took his customary brandy
and soda.
Mr., Gladstone’s .clothes, likfl those of—the
ttbrlfid ytinng pfitson from Tfoy, do not fit him. His
butterfly suit hangs on him like a sack. His claw-
hammer coat is said to lit around the r boulders like a
horse-collar.
Time works wonders. The woman who two
years ago was the prettiest in Townsville, and who
married the patriarch of sixty, has grown tired of
being an "old man’s darling,” and left her “ Anld
Eobm Q ay, and Townsvil’e, for good,
Ristori is certainly tho greatest woman of her
time. Having “ mastered’ 1 the English language (yon
might expeflfc anything ot a Woman’s tongile), she now,
at the age of ilfty.eight, loaves her Bom,an retirement
to appear on tho English stage in Lady Macbeth and
Bliaabethi
The Shah of Persia recently had a pot tooth
drawn. His entire Court was present, and his Majesty
received during the day 3000 ducats as marks of sym-
pathy and congratulation. The dentist was an English-
man, and, it was said, found the tooth for the occasion.
His price was only 100 ducats.
Miss Fanny Kemble’s “ Recollections of a
Womanhood” was to be published in England and
America simultaneously last month. The work forma
the second raft of her " -Recollections ot a Girlhood,"
S-Hd will Contain reminisddusos and letters of Dickons,
Thackeray, and other famous men.
Lord Ellesmere, who recently visited the Aus-
tralian colonies, mentioned during a speech at Horsley
that what mbSt surmsga him Jn t,hern wds.tho want of
IlHiqfi, adding that ,f lf Australia, instead of being Split
Up into four colonies, could be induced to go in for
federation of governments, it would become a vast
empire in the Southern hemisphere, which might rival
any country in the Northern.”
Skulhorpo, of Leiohhardt-relic fame, is a small,
insignificant, shrivelled-looking man, thoroughly
commonplace in appearance, but, nevertheless, has the
look of being as tough and wiry as a man can be.
In Western Queensland, an Impression is gradually
gaining ground that Ikuthorpe‘really has the relics.
No living soul, save himself, has, however, seen tho
contents of his mysterious swag.
Ef §ietflen», the distinguished sflientistj is mak»
iug still further discoveries in the domain of bdtttny. Hie
experiments in plant-growing by means of the electric
light, go to prove, among other things, that plants as a
rule do not require a period of rest during the twenty-
four hours of iho day, but make increased and vigorous
progress in wintertime dro to solar boat during tho day
and to electric light during the night.
Mr. Ashmead-Bartlcft-Eurdett-Coutts’s conduct
since his marriage has csmplicated. matters
Ho has cajoled, threatened, and whined to the writers
in tho public press to* avoid laughing at him; he has
employed editors to meutiou the parties he and his poor
old wife hive given; he has submitted to almost any
humiliation rather than forego notoriety; and the
result is that he is simply the butt of unceasing
ridicule.
Jack Williams, one of the four Tate
prospectors, a N.S.W, native, is in good tin at the
Tate (N. 0 ) The following yarn is told about him
Jack, crossing the Mitchell on Put Crdlaghan’s back
during a flood, fell affectionately on Pat’s shoulder, and
knocked all his remaining front teeth out. Jack, pre-
vious to this was a great smoker, but has since had to
restrict himself to four pipes a day, owing to pulling
his jaws in at every draw.
Mr. Proctor, M.L.A., has we understand, issued
a writ against the Sydney Daily Telegraph, and
elaims, if wo are correctly informed, £5OOO damages.
The cause of action is an article by the Telegraph
dealing with tho Milbr.ru Creek swindle, and tho tren-
chant comments embodied in that article on Mr.
Proctor’s testimony on first examination and on cross-
examination respectively, relative to what passed be-
tween himself and Mr. Bussell.
A correspondent from North Queensland, writes
that " S. J. Denny, late gold aesayer on tho Palmer,
has erected smelting works at the Herbertou. S. J.
Denny parts (if there are any ladies about) easy, but
says this time that ho moans to smash the tin without
making a smash amongst tho girls," Then our cor-
respondeat adds: “Private—S.J.D. is a rare good
fellow and liked by everyone in the North, diggers
included, and these are a hard lot to please." We
think the " private ” part the best of this.
Thadeus O'Kane, of the Northern Miner,
Coniines uncomplimentary. Thus of Mr. H. W. Palmer:
—“The rumour that Henry Wyndham Palmer has
accepted the position of- Coolie agent in British India,
at a salary of £6OO a year, wants confirmation. It
would suit him all to pieces. He has broken in so
many Kanakas that tho Coolies would come quito easy
to him. His former supporters hero should look out
and prepare Kanaka Palmer’s successor." We are
afraid that this is a hint; Thady himself is ready.
Captain Swann (late of her Majesty’s navy) has
offered to het any man, wotnau, or child on the Etheridge
that he will go from Georgetown to Townsville, a dis-
tanoe of 300 miles, without anything to eat or drink
(water excepted). The captain being a staunch tee-
totaller, of course wouldn’t think of driakir.g anything
but the liquor from Nature’s distillery. In Northern
Queensland they call a man .*• Captain " if ho has been
second engineer on a steam, tug; and if ho has been
cook on a man-of-war, they wouldn’t affront him with
any title lower than Btigadior-Geuera!.
Some time ago a man from Adolong, bad with
cancer, came down to consult Dr. Bowker. Ho was in 1
poor circumstances, the Adolong people having had to 1
subscribe in ordur to defray his travelling expenses to
the metropolis. Ho saw the doctor, who enquired into
tho state of hi# exchequer; and finding it contained
only about a brass collar-stud, two and
fonr-and-sixpence, refused to take any foe, cured him,
and paid his passage back to his native village. It will
at onco bo seCa that the doctor would not, even if he
lived a thousand years, be ever a fit subject to servo as
a juryman llpdn a newspaper libel-case.
The Mayor, Mr. John Harris, Continues rigor-
ously to pursue the task he set himself at the beginning
of the year, for tho removal of unsightly buildings freni
the x>riacipal thoroughfares, and the improvement in
many other respects of the city. Over 2000 old houses
have "bit the dust”—to use a ‘ daily" expression—
since Mr. Harris was elected to the civic chair. It’s
very amusing to find that ten or fifteen of bis Worship’s
" own tumble-downs ” are included in the number.
J. H. was standing with his inspector opposite an un-
sightly row. "These will have to gc, your Wo's'D;
they’re wretched; just look inside,” said the inspector.
“ I know them—dowa with them; they’re my own."
There is a very high-toned attorney who feels
that without his presencetbo upper-crust of society
wou’u be but half-hiked. hen the very tip-top flake
of npper-cruat gaieties is concerned, he (sola that it is a
duty ha owes to society to be there. This is so well
understood that a friend thought it a mere civil form
to ask him if he proposed ts be present at the lawn
party last week, and was n t surprised when the magni-
ficent one languidly said he didn’t know, er-er-really
cannot always-er er-fatigne, you know —sought after.”
And be wasn’t surprised either to ascertain later that
the exquisite one had, on leaving him, incontinently
hunted up the bold Bloxsome and wheedled from him an
invitation—which ho hud not before been, favoured with.
The Losdon Daily News in a recent issue had
a paragraph implying that Mr. Gladstone, after spend-
ing an licuf ckS a hslf irt dinner, entered the House ot
Gammons in an intoxicated donaitlon. *' His appear-
ance," said the journal, "excited mneii sympathy and
some concern among his friends.” The News neit day
published a backsliding kind of apology—admitting that
really fatigue had bjen mistaken for inebriety. Lest
it should be said that this slander is what might be
expected from the Press of tho day, the following to
the score of a Conservative gentleman should bo noted.
When Mr. Gladstone, some short time back, fell from
his carriage, narrowly escaping death, tho Conservative
peer remarked that "if the mishap had occurred to any
one else the sequel would have been, not an expression
of national condolence, hat a fine ot forty shillings.”
There!
General Fielding, the representative of British
capitalists, who has been inspofitiligf the proposed route
for the Queensland Trans-Continental Railway, Is a
man who conveys the idea that ho possesses great
ability and penetration. The style in which he con-
ducted his exploratory expedition has mightily amused
the Banana-men. The wildest stories are current as to
the magnificence of his equipment. Silver spoons are
rumoured ; green peas are openly affirmed; and there
is a dark rumour that among the stores is a French
cx>k—pnt up ia tins. It is a solemn fact that tho
General ranges his men in line every morning, and
makefi theifi pilt otlt their tongues for inspection, and
it is now ati aftidld of Universal belief that if the blacks
were to chop up ore of the patty, the General could
promptly identify him if only a single bsck tooth Wei's
recovered.
In June, 1871, four young men, together, placed
their feet upon the first round of the ladder of fame, at
the Bijou Theatre, Bayswater. One was a student at
University College, London, and the other throe were
city Clerks, with no extraordinary prospects. The occa-
sion was an amateur dramatic performance in aid of All
Saints’ Night School, Bayswater. The play was Byron’s
"£100,000;" the theatre crowded ; the show freezing;
but those young gontloiion were intoxicated with glory.
They parted, end have not met since. Pate has played
the devil with them, thfisly I— One is about the most
popular actor in London, and known as Bcarbohn Tree;
one was shot in China —poor “ Margery;" one has just
left Sydney, to return again, he tells us, and for the
test of his days fascinate Sydneyites with his genius;
the foilrth is on the Sydney small-pox "slant,” but did
net advise the iilsband to "shova his wife under tho
seat.”
Lord Boaconsfield thus :— H For life in general
there is hut one decree. Youth is a blunder; manhood
a struggle; old age a regret. Da not suppose that I
hold that youth is genim s ; all that I say is, that geniu®,
Whdn young, is divine. Why, the greatest captains of
ancient and modern times both conquered Italy at fivo-
and-twenty. Youth, extreme youth, overthrewtho Per-
sian Empire Then there Is Nelson, Clive; hut these are
Warriors, and perhaps you may think there are greater
tilings than wPr. Ido not: I worship the Lord of
Hosts. Bui tats the’ blast illustrious achievements of
civil prudence. Innocent Iff., the greatest ot Popes,
was the despot of Christendom at thirty--seven. John
de Medici was a Cardinalat fifteen, and, according to
Guicciardini, baffled with his statecraft Ferdinand of
Arragon himself. He was Pope as Leo X. at thirty-
seven. Luther robbed even him of his richest province
at thirty-five. Take Ignatius Loyola and John Wesley,
they worked with young brains. Ignatius was only
thirty when he made his pilgrimage and wrote the
‘ Spiritual Exercises.’ Pascal wrote a groat work at
sixteen, and died at thirty-sevjn, the greatest of
Frenchmen."
In Australia, single girla and building societies’
secretaries " go ell” rapidly.
Johnny Hall was robbed of his clothes in Ade-
laide, the other day. Since this, tho thief has die ’of a
broken heart.
Harold Stephen is bringing out a book called
“ Pizz." Contributors—Pen Martin, Lewis Scott, etc.
Circulation-500 000,000,003.
Bread-and-batter dances are all the go in Auck-
land. We should imagine that they were first origi-
nated in tho Greasiau epoch.
Genuine groceries exist on Bollinger and Nam-
bnccra Rivers. Soft goods and groceries on one cud of
the counter, and grog at the other.
The Marquis do Ray’s immigrants, quartered in
the Domain, cost tho cdonv £7Bl 6s. lid. fihe lid.
was, probably, for a feeding-bottle for the newest baby.
The final burst-up of tho world on the 15th, as
predicted by the Lyre, did not come off. This was to
bo much regretted—tho evening papers came out on
tho following day.
That pedestal to R. Bardott Smith’s, and
John Davies’ monument—alias the Statue of thoQuven,
only cost £995. Cheap too, considering what R, B. was
enabled to effect —ia a cab.
Groat complaints having reached the pro-
prietors of a certain steam ferry about the slowness of
one of their boats, tho directors met, and after a long
discussion, ordered her to be —re-painted.
A correspondent writes; —‘‘Morse, who in-
vented tho telegraph, and Bill, the inventor of the
telephone, both bad deaf and mute wives. I trust this
item will not bo lost on wives who wish their husbands
to advance."
“Whore, in thunder, are yon tearing oft to?”
a-ked a friend, us he saw a well-known tradesman scoct-
ingdowu King-street. " Anywhere,” was the breathless
reply; “she want-id mo to button tho back of her
dross for the fourth time."
A charge of cruelly ill-treating a cat was pre-
ferred at tho Water Police Court, the other day, against
a man named Stewart Hogsflesh. who resides cn the
North Shore. Andffia was fiued £5 for the cruelty, and
nettling for his name, to tbo just indignation of a Court
crowded with patriots. /
GALLANT CAPTURE OF THE STABBER.
Two score of crushers on him jumped—
-41 Wo’vc got the slabber, now ! " they cried.
And when they had the miscreant thumped.
With miles o£ rope his limbs they tied;
And, followed by a seething crowd.
Who would have rent him limb from limb.
With cries of triumph, long and loud.
They to the station carried him.
A myriad policemen’s lanterns blazed.
And on his face the sergeant gazed;
Then quoth that 4i copper,” with a grin,
44 This capture is a deal too thin :
It’s took teu men of av’rago height
To run in poor old Bfli when tight.' 1
At this there roso a fiendish yell—
-44 For nothing,” they cried, 44 all this bother I ”
Then Bill got locked up. it befell.
For one good »<;ll deserves another.
11
THE BULLETIN.
November 19,1881.


Hotels, &c.
Jp A LEON'S PRIZE ALBUBY ’WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to hi-
WINES, and to the awards pained by them, bops U
intimate that he holds very large stocks ef all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sampb
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 TUT STREET, SYDNEY.
Visetard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
These Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions
London International 1862
Paris M ••• ••• 1861
Vienna „ ... ... ... 1873
Philadelphia .. ... .ft 1876
Also at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria Now Sooth Wales, Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-90.
WHITPX RED.
Reisllng Aucnrot I Shiraz Hermitog*
Vordeilho Brown Muscat Csirbinet Malbec
Tokay I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
ICE
ICE
fTIHF. CITY ICE COMPANY, having made such
•*- ADDITION to their WORKS as to enable them to
Manufacture upwards of TEN TONS of ICE per diem,
arc prepared to Supply the LUXURY during the AP-
PROACHING SUMMER, at a lower rate than ever.
For prices, Ac.,
Apply to
8 WYNTARD STREET,
OR TO VARIOUS AGENTS.
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.,
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SP'flKlT MERCHANTS,
681 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders Receive Prompt Attention.
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac,
W
ILL COX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10s
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
[I HE AUSTRALIAN
•MIOME" SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
VA
O
NV
C
*6
C A)
effectually stop the deception that has 'eeen
I practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
Is specially made for mat clime, and l>earB A COPY OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on Vha work-pinto. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responßiolo for their failure to
work.
T 20.000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I.—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for trentlie use only, £6.
No. 3. —Machine n« above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7,
Where the Genuine Australian "Home” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, wo will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Solo Agents for Australia—
M, MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
LOOK FOR THE NAM 111
w
H- ARIEL
PROVISION MERCHANT,
AND GENERAL COMMISSION AGENT.
343 and 845 Kent-street, near King-street.
L,
3LE AGENT for the undermentioned
R. Whittiugham and Co.’s London Provisions
Excelsior Mill’s prize Victorian Oatmeal (late G.
Beucraft & Co.)
Swallow and Ariell’s Victorian Biscuits, Treacle,
and Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toilet and Mottled Soap
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Confectionery
A. M. Hunt & Co.’s Goulbnru Baking Powders and
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, near King-street.
' ESTABLISHED 1837.
L E E’S POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
OAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
F 0
Tobacconists
TIN TAG!
TJ_N TAG!
Caution to Storekeepers.
NYONE selling Tobacco witli any Round Tin Tag
_ other than those bearing our brr.uds
“ CONQUERER ” or “YANKEE DOODLE”
is infringing our rights, aud will be proceeded ngdimt
by Law.
We are obMgod to give thte notice, as a Sydney Mrihit.
fncturor has been sending out one of his inferior I
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
■ brand*
DIXSON AND SONG,
155 YORK STREET.
TOBACCO SMOKEBS,
Note the AboV©.
5> N V
TOBACCONIST ,14ft.
J.EVE
J.EYE
MBIWEMiI
7(!'f|iW | •
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KIfCG STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and n in tiers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
Money.
U
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES: 76r> GEORGE STREET (flrst floor),
S doors from A. Hordern and Sods,
Honrs—9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL pd other
security, payable by instalments, as followsj- 4 -
£lO by weekly instalments of w. £0
SO
M A * M
* 4k A
m A A
A, 4 m
A
.A
A
i 1
no
o 12
o
5
And in due proportion up to £1 0.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not aide to transact business during the
day, the offices will bo open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, first door,
3 doors from A. Hordern and flons.
TX) SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONET LENT on mortgage of properties, in sums
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage for short terras.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market.
ONDON
MORTGAGE, LOAN,
DISCOUNT BANK,
AND
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James'
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms —UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting Imagines* is
highly commanded, CONCESSIONS being granted
which u<» other office bolds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OF SALK on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui-
ties, Personal effects, Ac.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECUFITY.
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acceptances, 4c., DIS-
COUNTED doily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments} or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential,
FORMS GRATIS —Address, THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m. j Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
I CANS GRANTED WITHOUT DELAY, at
J moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers, CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 CasUereagh-street. next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPEEHANQTNGS
(a really splendid stock).
BOOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, Ac.
ALEXANDER BOETHWICK, 281, GEOEGE-ST.
Hotels, &a
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
B
Hotels, Sco.
OHINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
W I L I, I A M STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOI-00.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER.
1b PER BOTTLE. „ *
IRISH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE.
all round.
N.B.—Cocklinru's Grape (FORT WINE), 15a. per
Bottle, especially lor invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers Hied,
Thurston's Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERY EVENING.
mHE COMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
1 OF PITT-STKEET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patron* daring the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into on additional Luncbeoa Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors pa-tronisiug this now addition to the
premises. ,V
The Billiard-room, with a superior " Alcock table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
bog to mention that they are not In any way connected
with any other person, or persona, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACKUAM, Manage*.
NOW OPEN,
THE
£Jity (Jatering Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Cafe, opposite Poapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT ROOMS for LADIES,
. and for
Gentlemen accoraponiod by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthday Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
Cakes of all kinds.
CONFECTIONERY of the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any hind injurious to the health is over
used In any goods prepared by us.
The CATERING and management nndertaken for
Balia, Banquet*. Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstration*
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(Jhas. r. Smith,
MANAGER.
Sc
4 -•
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in tho Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
It Is of the utmost Importance that content* of each
ettlo should be carefully compared, as large quantities
re being Imported into New South Wales in email
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
.GENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
ither brands, when they will find a difference of at
oast 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
VHISKY,
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
P MARTIN AND CO.,
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen.
ALBURY WINES.
PORT MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUARTER CASKS,
AND CASE.
m
* .■ .
#■
m
AGENT—GEORGE LLOYD,
BEiDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
OOLALTA WINK CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will bo transacted at
tbo above address, tho CELLARS at tho A.S.N. Co.’s
Wharf, Circular Quav, will he retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
nr Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM,
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyard*)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels eoafldent that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompt!-
ohi jph
Th* Rimi of U. MOSS ft 00*
erery Genuine Bottle
; <’:■
-/■
4r,
T Is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves thin brand first in public eatl-
itlon. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
t no other brand bas the same mellow vinous clmrac-
■. the fulness oil the palate, and the groat keeping
diitioa of the Bull Dog Ale. Consumers are there-
■o cautioned against traders wluo for the sake of an
bra profit represent the common boors referred to ns
nul in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTELL and
1., Solo Agents.
M
H E
A R
STOUT.
B
-This favourite brand of
T O U
r * selected with great care from Die host of the brow-
gs of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
. , J. R CATTELL and CO.,
Bole Agents.
12
November 19, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by score-
tunes of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
RACING.
JVjndham (Vis.),.. November 19.
Murruratiulgee Turf Club November 23, 24,25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23, 24
Mnnumbidgee Soring Mooting November 23. 24, 25.
P. Anguuta mid Flinders JU. (S.A.)...November 2t, 29.
Dunedin (N.Z ) J C Spring Mooting.... Nov. 30, Dec. 1.
Wellington Racing Club (N.Z.) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30
Gootamundra ’ ..December 1, 2.
Oamaru (N.Z ) J.C. Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.
8-uuthland (N .Z.) J, C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December S, 9.
Jasmanian J.C December 10.
Bathur-t Amateur Turf Club December 10.
Queensland December 10.
Hamilton (Vic.) December 14, 15.
Wtlliamstowu (Vic) December 24
Bairnsdale (Vie.).............. December 26, 27.
Warlalda J.C. Annual. December.
'A. J O. Summer Meeting..,. December 26.
Mudgeo ; December 26.
Deulliquiu.. Deceralier 26.
Dubbo December 26.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December W.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 28.
Hvdnoy Tur' C 0) December SI.
Konrlngton I’ it (Vic )...! December 31.
Auokland (N.Z.; Summer Meeting Dec. 26 1 Jan. 1, 2.
V.R.C. Cbarapien..,; January 1.
TutturaaU’s (Sydney) January 1.
Forbes : • -Jauuary 2
Glen limes January 2. 3
Geelong January 26, 2/
Broulee. January 26 and 27.
New England .1.0 January 26 27.
Tasmanian Jockey Club February 14, 13, and 16.
luvorell Vwbruary 17,13.
Taamaniau Turf Club Fehi n.ary 22. 23.
Dunedin (N.Z ) AntnmuMeeting...Fob. 23.34 25—1833.
V.R.C March 4,9, II
Waugauui(N Autumn Meeting ....Alar 11,13—1882.
Albury March 13,17.
AQUATICS.
North Shore Rowing Club Regatta November W.
Triokett v. Haulan. November 23
SmtU’s Bay Amateur Regatta December I *.
Printen’ Regatta Decora'er 10
Brisbane Regatta December 10
Houtti Au-itralinu Amateur iiowluy Associa-
tion K*gatta December 17.
Holdsworlh, Q.irlyno, ».uil Co.’s tropby for
8-oar Outriggers December 21
Raymond Terraco Regatta December 26.
Pyrmont Regatta December 26.
Newcastle Annual Regatta January 1.
PEDESTRIANISM.
St. Kil.lv College Sports, Association Ground... Nov. 33..
CRICK BT.
All England Eleven v. 22 Newcastle Dis-
trict, at Newcastle November 25, 23.
All England v. Sydney....... December 9, 10. 12
All England v. Victoria Dscembe* 16 17, 19
Intercolonial, at M dbonrua Docomber 2t. 2*, 27.
Uolilhworth Gardyno Cup matches : Albert v.
Uni verity, Nov. 19, Nov. 26, 1881. Orel, r of
matohei to follow: Warwick v. Carlton. Albert v.
Carlton, Warwick v. University, Carlton v. University.
Albert v Warwick. Warwick v. Car tin, Albert v.
Carlton, Albert v. University, Warwick v. University.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Evans, the cricketer, has loft Yass for Albury.
Lane Cove and Hunter’s Hill Regatta on New
Tear's Day.
Chifney has almost entirely recovered from his
late accident.
The totahsator was in full swing on the hill at
the V.R.C. meeting.
The total prizes paid away for the V.R.C
meeting was £12,65110a!
Jhe Pyrmont Regatta is fixed for December 26 ;
17 events on the programme.
The Tam worth Pigeon Match is to come off on
the 23rd and 21bh November.
Wheeler won the billiard tou-nament in Mel-
bourne. Stritch was second.
Sweetmeat has arrived iu Sydney, and is re-
ported to be rapidly improving.
Beck worth, of London, challenges the world to
a swimming <J nloit for CS(T9 aside.
The Birthday sports at Lithgow were a groat
success, Mantle won tbs £2O handicap.
George, ex-chamjjion runner, has done half a
mile, at Birmingham, in 1 min 53 1-5 sec.
The trustees of the Flemington Racecourse
netted £lO,OOO by tbe late V.K C. meeting
The Royal Sydney 0 aehfc Squadron first-class
race, on Saturday, was won by the Oithona.
Mr. F. N. Robinson won the Champion Cup,
value £lOO, at the Christchurch Athletic Association
meeting.
la the race for the Liverpool Cnp, November
s ll, one of the j.ickeys, uaaud M'D maid, was throws
and killed.
At A r midale, 9th Nov., Daly’s •unwreath won
the principal events. Alums won ths foot race from n
g'Ksl Bold. ■ .
The billiard match at Melbourne botwsen
Myers and Grimwood resulted in a victory forths latter
by 40 points.
Prince, an aboriginal, gave Edwards and Swnn
some trouble to b<Utt him at the go-as-you-pleaae con-
test at Sale. ’ I
Triokett has challenged Courtney for a four-
mile race, for 1000 dollars aside. It is probable Court-
ney will accept.
Immediately after the Toronto regatta, Trickott
challenged Rosa to a match for £5OO, and Hamm of
Halifax for £2OO.
Mr. W. G. Brett had a “ walkover ” on Satur-
day for the Fowler Challenge Cup. The trophy has to
be won throe times.
It is report.>d that Joe. Thompson intends to
retire from the turf. Shall we never hear thy winning
Volee again, Jovph ?
At the Oddfellows’ sports at Mudgoo, on the
9 ih, the go-as you-please was won by Wallace, a sea-
man of the Wolverene.
The Americans won the international cricket
match, on 31st August, at Hamilton, Ontario, by 1 run
with 10 wickeds to spare.
At the Merimbnla Regatta, the Baumberg
silver Gup was won by Mealier, and the Double Scull
face by Meaker and Clark.
At the Melbourne Cricket Ground sports on
the 9th, the Intercolonial Handicap (prize £.30) was won
b J Evans; Coliard second.
The New Zealand rider, MTvor, vho met with
» nasty fall from Gazelle iu the Steeplechase at the
V.B.C, meeting, is fast recovering.
The viotoiy of Iroquois in the last Epsom
v* r W was known by telegraph in Now York before
Archer, the Jockey, had divmo anted.
Mr. M’Donnell, the owner of Zulu, contradicts
he rumours that have been in circulation concerning
me starting of the horse for the Melbourne Cup. An
offer of £5OO to nil was made to him if he would allow
Gough, tho rider of Z.iln, to ride Tho Duchess, but the
offer was refused.
Martindale, tho racehorse, has boon sold pri-
vately, and goes into W. Yeoman's charge. The horse
is greatly fancied for the Waggv Cup.
The seoond-clasa race, under tho auspices of tho
Koval Alfred Yacht Clu'; came off on Saturday, with
the following result Guinevere 1, Pleiades 2.
Snail's Bay Amateur Regatta is fixed for 10th
December. This will snrelv clash with the Printers’
nogftttft, which U to come o(T on the famo date.
Tho entries for tho .£lOO scn’lin? match, at
Brisbane, are to be closed on tho 21 at instant. Tuo
principal scullers of Sydney are expected to enter.
Tho Mandelson Cnp match played at Tiimut, on
9th and 10th, reunited ns follows :—Tnmut, first in-
nmgs, 71; second, 82 Wagga Wagga, first, 39 ; second,
A crickot matcli was played at Oran go, on tho
oth, between the Orunro and tho Bathurst clubs, re-
salting m a victory for Orange iu one innings, with 17
runs to spore. ° *
At tho South Sydney Fire Brigade picnic tho
fireman s race was won by Marsh, of the Ballarat City
Brigade. The tug of war resulted in favour of the
vVoolUhra Brigade. “
Hanlan has finally determined to retire from
the sculling world Ho declined to accept Ross’s
challenge, stating that busiuesa required his
undivided attention. w
I Tr h u.y ach ting season was succesafully opened
at Melbonirao ou Saturday bv a cruise aromd tho bay
V^ril7a 0 c Ü bVcmb. UndCr C ° al “ o ' lore MiD »-
The settling over the Queensland Turf Club
meeting passed off successfully. The total stakes
j“p Ü Bffit with J £4oo h ° hi ” he3t whmor tll e Hou.
of G riT, S P? rta > 4 9ih Norembor. The Prince
l. W j e Haridicap throe distances : Pnrsehotwe 1.
> loir.
Sa Mr mSmSkSfi!'
■ Vlf 1 raco for aai(ie pluoo on th* 9th,
at Cobar, opposite Morrigou’s Hot*(, hetw«m Da*«v
Mehau and Thomas Budd, and wu* won easily Iw the
latter. Meeha* was tb* favcmiite. 7 V
rBk int ;; lli - e hce respecting the result of
the Melbourne C*p reach*l the South Austsaiiaw
liEaisTßEat3.so p.m., lood time—ten minutes befo«o tho*
race started I How’s that for Pack’s girdle ? —i
Mr Jamo* Mac* w*a presented last wank with
a handsome goU bolt. It. is value I st 0.0 guineas ami
was su.scribed for by the loading B,rortamen of Mel.
bourne, bploudid place, the-o eolo*ies, Jom.
Murdoch has dsfiaiUly consented to play in tho
wifi 1 IliTw?’ au ;’ t' 80 a Sf ii,st th » Britishers. Ho
will til.no taka •ticks, thul tli© selection ooi-
raitteo will not huvo to select a voekot-kooper. ’
Th* Victoria* Cricketing AssooiatUm having
determined to charge 10 per coat lor their r..treuJe <§
th* Lng.iah matches, sevsr.l of plavars
0°??J 6n £ Gr . 9 ' Jhe rac*s at Glencao were well
patronized. Deerfoot won lh* Miuidau Pl>*« a *d Pr*.
mier the Handicap. Th* eriokat m.tohjG Range
Ths .^rti n nt a w e ?.* y Wi " ,<>r th “ Olou Warwick*.
Ihs aports at Wellmgrov* were well attemied.
Tha English batting average for the hut soason
r "? IVS: -Lancashire, Yorkshire, Ol.meester-
•hire, Middlesex, Notts, Kent, Surrey, Su*eex, Dertiy-
3hirtt - For bowling: L.ucashiro, Yorkshirp, Mi.ldlL
Sifs ex° ttS ’ Keat ’ Glouco-Urshire, Derby.h re, Surrey,
Whcatear's accident seems to have spoilt many
chances. Dueh-s*. Sweetmeat, nnd Wheatear ware
gaming on their horees, but tbe dog bowled When»e»r
over, and Duobess and Sweetmeat were knocked out of
*? ut °°"« ePher have won, ooaslderlag
tlie very fast ti»ie and Zulu s »asy win f r
The N.S^V ; Boning Aseooialion are arranging
for the immediate formation of a practice eightoar
crew, the final selection to be mad- two months before
the urxt race on the Varra. The II ddsworth-Gardyns
race is fixed for December 2 k Ths annual meeting of
the Association will be held on December 13.
Thomson Junior Cup match, 9th November.
Our Boys v. Balmain Waratuh.— D.BGC • 143 (Don-
nis, not out, 69; Stafford, 37; Collins 10 ). B W 0 C. :
18 and 86. Tho match was very one-sided, and Dennis
took advantage of the opportunity to put in a claim
for the trophies for highest Individual score and beat
bowling average.
Iroquois, the American horse, won the last St,
Leger in 3mm 20 3 sth s t .c, Robert the Devil’s record for
last year being 3a.ia 35see a reoond longer than Rayon
? r 8 . ln _ * a J’nnett* went the course
i n . 3^l" 2oqeo - a ' ,d SiKio 1,1 18U In 3:nin 27seo, while
' u IWoPatre-r-b oecupied3:nln lOJvee. and GraigmilLw
3mm 20aec in 18,5. .
Orange J.C. meeting, 9fch November. The
Flying Handicap (1 mil-> and a distance): Maccaronl 1,
B han lfh r aan 2. Helena 3. Pony Race (1 mile) : Magic
1, Emily 2, Tyrant 3. Public Auction Stakes (1J mile):
Moonlight 1 Dundee 2, Prince of Walev’ Handicap
Gi mije): Shanglirnua 1, Baroness 2, Maccaroni 3
Final Flutter (1 mil ) : Moonlight 1.
Tho times of the big events at Doncaster wore •
—Champagne Stake*. 5 fnrhuur, 12-3 5 sec ; Great
Yorkshire Handicap (w.m by Pctron-1, with F. Archer
up at 8 at. 12 lb. t, St. Leiter course, 3’ 16-2 5 sec St.
Leger (won by Ironu vis, witli Archor up at 8 st 10 lb )i
6 ~ *- i-n ae;. ; Port,land Pfate (won by M werin", with
Archer up at 9 at. 51b.), 1 min. 13 see.
Canterbury Spring meeting. B’h and 9th No-
veraber. Derby—Dvnphiu 1, Peerless Colt 2, Non-
pareil 3 Free HsndUa#.—Btilingssat* L Chancellor 3
Talents. Jiok-y Club Hwidicsp-Grip 1. Louis D’Or
3 Lady Emm.- 3 Canterbury Cur—Grip 1, Dauphin*.
Peerless Colt 3 L mis D'Or w*» the *nlv other started
Tim*, 4min. 6Jsec. Railw*y Plat*-Billlngs S at« L
Morpeth Euomi, 9th Nere-nberFlying Han-
diesp: Prosperity 1. Spe* 2. Twilight 3. Prince of
Wale* Stakes : Maid of Morpeth I, Crsmorns S !>**.
e*shiro Las* 3 Maid*n Plate : R**lr* 1. 2* Maid
of Morpeth 3. T*wn Plats : Twilight 1, Little Noll 3
Banshee S. Hack Race: Empress L Oso Ey* 2 Chancs
3. Forced Haudioap: Twilight 1, Prosperity 8. Cro-
morue 3.
The English erioketers aredus hero this morning
(Thu s-lay) by ths AustnKa. In tbe farewell matfh
m England, aeainst Notfs Castle Club (with Flowers
and Moley), thev scored 88 (\V. Mi’winter 32, O. Br-
low 25, A. Shaw 10 ) This small score was mainly duo to
the excellent bawling of Flowers—29 overs, 20 maidens
15 runs, 4 wickets. Bates, Ulyeit, Lillywhit-, ami
Peate got duck eggs Shrewsbury arrived by Suez ma 1
at Adelaide on Monday.
Archer, the celebrated jockey, scored three
great wins at Doncaster: the Great Yorkshire Handicap,
the St. Leger, and the P rtland Plato. His horseman!
ship is described as marvellous, his races all being won
iu the last furlong. Th>, sums of mo-oy he re eived as
p-esenta represented several thousand pounds laord
Arlington gave him £2090 to ride Bond Or iu ths Cam-
bridgeshire and win.
Mr. S. A. Blackman, of Cooyal, has sustained a
severe loss by the death of his thoroughbred mare
Industry, who died foaling a beautiful chestnut filly to
Mr. Rouse’s Wilberforc*. She was only eight yews
old, and was one of the pure bred mares by Australian
(imported), who was full brother to the sire of Maggie
8.8., the dam of the English Derby and Leger winner
the American Iroquois.
Bailway returns for the V.B.C. mooting
Da by Day— C.< :r.c 1399: hi1j.2751; stand, 1843; total.
5993 Cuo Di\— Course, 3720 ; hill, 11,5 U ; stand, 6341-
total. 21,578 O ka Day—Cmne,64B; hill, 1361; stand’
1080; total, 31 9. Steeplechase Dav—Course, 1393;
hill, 2410; stand. 1769; total, 5533 a grand titalduring
the four da»s of 36 Jl3 person*. The amount paid the
T U O. ootnea to £7654 Is. fid.
Parramatta Races, 9th November. Handicap
Hurdle Race, 1} mile : Safeguard I, Jupiter 2, Ranger
3. Shorts Handicap, C furlonga : Verdict 1. Boniface 2.
Waxworks 3. Galloway Ifa o, 7 furlongs : V.G. 1, Lady
Chester 2, Opossum 3. Selling Race, 1 mile: West
Country Diok 1, Dora 2, Carnival 3 Prince of Wales
Handicap, 11 mile: Balthazar 1, Masquerade 2, Lord
Orville 3. Forced Handicap, 7 furlongs : Jack 1, Lord
Orville 2, Verdict 3.
Neither Archer, who rode Moweriua, nor Ford-
a tV the leg-up on tho Stewards* Cup winner,
at D .uoaster, wore spurs; and indeed the idea is, says
a sp urtiiig writer, gaining stronger grounds day by day
that, it is not necessary, except in exceptional instances,
for the riders of fillies to wear tbe instruments of tor-
ture on tho heels of their boots, for the art. of rice-
riding has attained a delleaoy which was unknown a
very short time back.
Mr. Donelan, of Hamilton (V T .), is ever on the
look our, for novelties. He announces that, ou Boxing
Day, a challenge cun will be offered for competition
amongst riflemen. Tho whole of ihe colonies are in-
vited to compete, and money prizes will also be given.
Euflokl rifles only are to bo used; distances IX), 200,
and 3'X) yds. Nominat ions must bo sent in ou or before
3rd December, at the handicaps are to bo published on
tho 10th of that mouth.
Stokes, a Richmond player, has an average of
213 runs in tho Cup matches in Melbourne, and an
average of 106 ia general matches, ro far. Ho started
the season with two M duck eggs," but has slnoo boeu
more fortunate with two not-ont innings, in which ha
scored 70 and 143. On onr side, Jones is the best per-
former as yet, his average nor innings being 151. Moses
comes next with 96, At this rate It will take a week to
p’ay the Intercolonial Cup,
Adelaide Race meeting, November 9. Hardies :
■mounter 1. D.O.D 2. Goldfish 3; won oisily. Two-
year-old Hand map: Prometheus 1, Uproarious 2 Sur-
prise 3; five started, won by half a length ; time, 1 miu.
5 sec. Handicap: Mesalliance 1, Fictitious 2. Lady
Carrington 3 Selling Race: Little Dick 1. Steeple-
chase: C.P. 1, Ligbtfoot 2, Buccaneer 3; the favourite
fell **d broke hi* back at the first f*no*. Flutter:
Fictitious L Uprosriou* 2, Lady Meli-sa 3.
This ia our Zulu yarn: A Woollahm gentle-
man, who seldom bets, was ro stricken with tho horsey
mania that ho r»ra irked to bis better-half, j 'ist as he
was starting to catch tho train on tho morning of the
Cup Day, “ I think, my dear. I’ll risk a pound on the
Melbourne Cup. What horse shall I back ?’* Tho lady
replied, Ton’ll loss," and his throo-j oar-old. trying to
repeat mamma's caution, could not got nearer to tha
pr munoiation than “Zulu.’* Bo took the tip. and won
£53.
Tho New. York Evbjtino Post says that Iro-
quoin** viatb'ry, coming after winning the Derby, t« *l.
most euaugh bo throw tbe American snorting mind elf it*
balsno*. "If woaro t* believe (it adds* all that English,
man have boon saying in the Press for some year* past
about tb* affect of two year old racing on the English
bro *d of raasliorssa. A rami on n prosicets in this field of
competition are increasingly good, for thus far the
staying power of tb* thoroughbred has received rn ire
cultivation h»re than in its original home."
The new graad-ntftnd at tho Association Cricket
Orenud is rapidly approaching eemplotieu, hit wo
doubt that it will ha reiuly for the All England match,
outhe 9th. 10th, and TJ»h December, though arrange-
meek* of a temporary character can lie mails for tho
acoommodeaio* <J visitors ou those dates. Tho stand
will ho ef muuh ursater Isugth than that at Ruadwick.
and the beautiful bn ia frost is to bo widsned, with a
slope tram the steps, forming tho entrance te the
ataag. It will be a eiiiira vlioss and usat structure,
and will add much to thspiet treeqnoussa and beauty of
tho around.
Tho Albert and University Clubs commenced
thair match for the Haldsvorth Gardyue Cup on Satur.
day at th« Association Gronad. Tho Alberts scared
277; Moses made top soore, BJ. by brilliant play, show-
ing strong defoncs aad great hitting po vers. D.
Gregorr i* st iff*! the opinions of the critics a* to his
improved form this season by nuking 71. not eut, ia
faulri»s* style. Flotnber pl»ye>l a flue iiiniags for 39
Mvssis playei a short but vlgoron* ianing* for 31. when
ha was thrown out by Garrett G. Mardoch 13, and A.
Orararv 2, w«. r ,» khs other ao>">rers. Tha Uuivaraity
bowling and fielding wwe very oommeadable.
Mr. Miller has explained matters to the dissatis-
faction of the " sweeping" public. No one blames him
for charging 5 per cent, on the amount of prize, and 5
per cent, commission for hedging, but the first tele-
gram : —" If owner of horse esn hnv half interest, will
run for place ; if not, will scratch’*—looks like business
outside the region of commission. He explains that he
never disclosed to owners of horses tho names of the
lucky drawers; yet it is strange that the owner
of Sweetmeat had so many shares in the sweeps. How
did he discover the holders of Sweetmeat ? Mr Ivory's
sagacity is.proverbial; but in this cyjw, if Mr. Miller is
to ba believed, it has been phenomenal.
The following programme of matches has been
arranged for the AU-Eneland E'ov.-nNov mber 23,
21, against 22 of Maitland district: ?5, 21. again -1 22 of
Newcastle; December I, 2. 3, a*ai -at 23 f Bathurst
(probably) : December 7, 8. Against 22 cl Parramat'a;
December 9, 10, 12. against 11 of New S nth Wales at
Sydney; Doiemlerl6 17, 19, agiinst 11 of Victoria st
Melbourne; December 2 5. 21. 23, against 18 of South
Austrtli* at Adelaide; D comber 31, Jinuary 2 nnd 3,
Combln d Au't.ralian Eleven nt M Ibonrne ; Januiry
12, 13, It, a'alnst 22 of Ot - g > at Dunedin; 16 and 17,
a;,alust Oaraaru or TlmArti; 20 21, 23, against 15 of
Canterbury at Christchurch ; 20 27, 28 against 22 of
Wellington at Wvllington ; Pel ruiry 2,3 t, against Si
of Auckland at Auckland ; 17, 18, 20, against Combined
Australian Team at Sydney.
Woodburn Regatta, November 9, Youths’
R lie, in punts ; S idawsou 1, F. Brown 2 ; well contest-
ed. F rmers’ Race, in working boats : Daly 1, Jordon
2; four entries; won easily. Champion Race, in light
skills: 11. M'Donald 1, D. M‘Donad2; 'onr entries;
wan e;islly by tho Clarence men. Sailing Race ; Met or
1; no second prize awarded, owing to Naiad Mid Jessie
not taking ths ( r proper position at the start. Double
sculls, in skiffs : II and f>. M'Donald 1, Armstrong;! d
Hsrt 2; won easily, three entries. Youths’ Race:
Daly, 1, Breckenridgc 2; three entries; Mobbs retired
Offing to an accident. Amateur single sculls; M'Mahon
1, A. Campbell 2 ; won by half a length. Race for bona-
fide residents ; M'M-ho.i and Schaefer 1, B'-ckanri'ge
and Campbell 2; won easily. Gig and Dingy Chase:
G. Davis iu a dingy was caught after aa exciting chase.
Queensland Turf Chib meeting. November 9 10,
First day :—Hurdle Race: Banker 1 Pa-timn 2. Ja«k
FrostS; faur ran, andth-ro *« some *pl«ndid juaip.
ing. Derby: LegerNowafn 1. Silver lisir 2; tho race
w»s won eeellv. Visitors’ T.afa: Liliorty L Z*noo 1.
Pash* 3. Prince of Walea Stakes: Cadmu* L Moorlad
i, ProctorS; won hy a leugt.li; time, S miu. 41 aee.
Trial St*ka« : Warfare 1 Pasha 2, Brisbane 3; tlrae,
1 min. 35 see I>urbane Handicap : Proctor 1, Na'-ooh.
llsh 2, Pinafore 3; a good race, won by two lengths;
t’me, 2 rain 15 s*o Second day :—Flying Handicap:
Liberty 1, Briebane 2, Petrel 3; time, 1 min. 35 see.
Mires’ Produce Stake* : Detective 1, Legerdemain 2.
Queensland Cnp: Cadmm 1. Moorlad 2, Pro tnr 3:
time, 3 rain 41$ sec. Soiling Hurdle: Pa-time 1,
Banker 2, Jack Frost 3. R ilway Plate: Zanoo 1.
G'anmire 2, Eclipse 3; time, I m n. 20 see. Forced
Handicap: Eclipse 1, Zanco 2 Liberty 3
Mr. Alfred Josephs, a Victorian bookmaker,
laid £IO.K) to £3 agiinst Dareblu and Zulu
while he was at the Kandwlrk raoetlug.
The backer when he found ho had a " log iu"
telegraphed to Josephs io hedge part of the money-
The telegram arrive i after tlie Cup had born won, and
Josephs teb graphed tbit the cheque for £IUO9 would
ba forwarded by post. The winner made tha book-
maker a present of a diamond ring. Although the
sporting papers ring with tho praises of Mr. Josephs*
integrity, as he might have laid a bogus wag-r, the
ring will hxrdlv feel complimented nt ths left-handed
imputation which is convoyed in these fulsome enco-
miums. As a matter <'f fait, hodning wagers a*o always
witnessed by a third p*rty, and, (o the credit of the
ring be it said, there is net one of its recognized mem-
bers who would j-op-rdizo his reputation and his
connection by writing a false wager ; still, the »hing
might have been does, but Mr. success as a
bookmaker would h-v- been greatly impaired. He ha*
do*o what any honest man ah uld do.
The monarch* i f tho Bullish Turf have great
winning* sot against th ir names. Tbe figure* given
here show the respective amounts won by tbe under-
mentioued winner* of the English Si. L*g*r f.,r tk«
past twenty year*. In their two and three-year-old mw*,
up to and including their Doncaster vietory : Marquis
—8 starts, 7 wins, £11,059; Lord Clifden—B starts. 0
wins, £3205; Blair Athol—6 starts, 5 w ns, £l3 293;
Qladiateur—lo starts. 8 wins, £26,166; Lord Lyon—
-7 starts, 6 wins, £22,301; Achiemont—2o starts, 15 wins,
£22,142; Formosa—ls starts, 7 wins, £10,053; P«ro
Gomez—7 start*, 5 wins, £12,700; Hawtbornden—l9
starts, 5 wins, £6582; Hannah—9 starts, 5 wins, £15,355 ;
Wonlock—6 starts, 1 win, £4150; Marie Stuart—ll
starts. 7 wins. £10,369 ; Apology—lo starts, 5 wins,
£13,425 ; Craigmillar-10 start*, 5 wins, £7400; Petrarch
—6 -tarts, 4 wins, £15,1.30 ; Silvio-10 t-ta 7 wins,
£14,160; Jannettc—l4 starts, 12 wins, £l7 112; Kayon-
d’or—l7 starts, 7 wins, £12.257; Robert tbe Devil—
-7 starts, 4, wins, £14.780; Iroqno s—l 9 starts, 10 wins,
£18"772. Blair Athol did not run as a two-year-old
Thisjs h w Iroquois, the American horse, won
tho Sr. Ijcger :—St. Louis led at (host >rt, with Iroqu ns
and Jovynn in clo;e attcn lanon. Settling down, llie
favourite (Ir qnois) w.is sieadied, and gradually ilroppe-1
back, Falkirk taking np the running. Rising tbe liill,
Josyafi drew np to Falkirk, and Iroquois dropped back
absolutely la*t. Approaching tbe R fie I'iiMs, the
American go. again into the midd o of bis fl da, and
Privateer also improved Ids position. Tho lot, became
enveloped in a fog, and when they were again discerni-
ble, Ishmaol led. At the bend ho shot his b It, and
Lucy Glitters rushed to tho fore, with Geologist,
Iroquois, and St. Louis close up. Whoa fairly in the
line for home, Lucy Glitters was done »H'h. uud Iro-
quois shooting to tho front the moment Archer called
upon him, drew away from Geologist from the distance,
and won cleverly by a length amidst tho most intense
excitement; Lucy Glitters wn third, beaten thro*-
qnarters of a length only from Mr. Gretton’s c. It. and
well clour of St. Louis, who was fourth. Eusube was
fifth, four or five lengths awar, with Ishmaol next,
half-a-dozen lengths in front < f Fortissimo, seventh;
Bal o*l eighth, Limestone ninth, and Scobell lenth,
and last of all, beaten off, was Voluptuary. Time by
Benson’s chronograph, 3 min. 20 3-5 sec. Value of tho
stakes, £5150.
The Intercolonial Fire Brigades Demonstration
was a great au-'oess. The results of the competition
were as follow :—First Event:—No. I Co , first prize,
valu* 25 guinea*, and four gold medals ; Ballarat City
Fire Brngade, second prize, 100 feet delivery hose; No.
2 Co., third prize, album. Ladder Uotham Fire
Brigade, first prize, silver cup; Corowa Fire Brigade,
second prize, trophy ; Geelong Fire Brigade, third prize,
ladder, Engii.e praei ice :—Corowa h’iro Brigade, firat
prize, flower stand, and eight silver medals; R< dforn
Fire Brigade, second prize, 100 feet delivery hose;
Ballarat Fire Brigade tiiiid prize, Ira iindooflec service,
Uo«e’:—Reel Practice for Thr.o M.m—Ballarat Firo
Brigade, fir»t prize, hydrant and three,gold medals;
Hovhftm Fir* Brigade, second prize, ouidelnbra; Ballarat
City Fire Brigade, third prize, pickle j.*.r. Disabled
Ladder Race : —Si in p.O;i ’ v-road Fiie Brigade, first prize,
cups; Albim Fir« Brigade, teoond prize; Mount Lach-
lan Fire Brigade, third prize, two silver medals. Engine
Practice i —Redfo n Fire B-igade. first prize (tho
Hordern Challenge Cup); Sandhurst City Fire brigade,
second prize marolu clo« k); Corowa Fire brigade, tblid
Sriz* (silver cup). Ho«e:—Reel Practice for Eight
lon—Sandhurst City Fire Brigade, fir«fe prize (silver
water pitcher uud eight silver m-vlals); Ballarat City
Fir* brigade, seoond prize (bi.cult tray).
Balmain Regatta. 9jh November;—Yopths under
31, pulling a pair of sculls, in wag.r boats) Old Eng.
laud—O. b. Jenkins 1; Susie—J. GaseMgnC 2. Skiffs
under canvas, not oxccodl*g 16ft, long; D^isy—J. Drake
1; Rosetta—W. Robinson 2; Onida—A. 'Oarmichaol 3.
kkiffs under canvas, not exceeding 19ft. kmg; Des-
demoua—P William* 1; Pandora—J. ElliottB. Canvas
diagiea, 14ft. and under: Oraud Flaneur—s. Boss 1;
Olivette—U. Ilardingo 2. Amateurs, pair sculls, in
light nkiff*, witli coxswain: Brothers'—T. and IT.
Jenkins 1; Sweetmeat-11 Burge rnl H. Hinsby 2.
Champion Scullers Race, for hoiia Me amateurs : W.
Q. Brett 1, C. W. G »den 2 Bona.Jila amateurs, pulliug
four oars, in string-test gig.-, with coxswain : Pinafore—
Me*srs. 0. H. Williams, C Goodyear, A. P. Bros, C. A.
Bros (stroke) 1; Ariel—Messrs. P. Hart, H. Rich, R.
Bedford, J. Thompson (stroke) 2. Handicapped yachts,
exceedingB to»s: Sirocco, 10 tons—E. \V.;Knox (Bmiu )
1; Woitaugi, 23 tons—A. O. Miison (scratch) 2. Jlandi.
eipnei yachts, not cx ceding 9 tons: Doris, 5 tons—Dr.
Milford I All-comers, pair sculls, in light skiff* :
Sapphire—C. Messenger (feather) 1’ Rdby—O Solomon
(251 b) 2. Open or half-decked boats, 20ft-and ap wards t
Bronte—J. b. Uoldsworth 1; Adelphi-M. A. Fitz-
hardinve 2. Open 1 oat 8 under canvas, not exceeding
2lff: Derouda— Geddes Bro.v ,i. Open boats under
canvas, not exceeding 22ft: Rose’ ta—H.. Clarke 1; St.
Crispin J. Murtrie 2. Maiden oarsnfen, four oars,
with coxswain ; stringiest gigs, fixe! seats: M.R.C—
Messrs. C. Booth, W. Corbett, F. J Bull and P. Ivca
(stroke) 1. Canvas diugies: Grand Flaneur—J. Ross 1.
Skiffs not exceeding 14ft: Young Jack—J. Robinson 1;
Maggie—R. Stevens 2. Vernon Cutter race: No. 3
crew. All amateurs, pulling pair sculls, light skiffs:
Vmd—J, M’Clerkin and 9. Mshalm 1; Sour Krout—B.
Barnett and J. Urcvn'ess 2. Members of Rowing Clubs,
pulling two pairs sculls, in club boats: S R C., Messrs,
W. F. Kloster and H. Caswell L
Trickett at Toronto.
Wk’ve been fnrnished with particulars of Trioketfa per.
formances at Toronto Regatta. Our man pulU din the
second heat for the hi? single-scull money. A great deal
of interest centred in the event owing to the meeting
of Courtney and Tr'ckett. The following faced tha
starter: E. A. Trickett, Australis; O. W. Weiegerber,
Wheeling ; Briosland, Wheeling ; C. E. Courtney, Union
Spring* ;J- if- Riley, Saratoga; Conley, Halifax; and
M. Donald. Ottawa. Trickett had the inside station,
aad M*Donald was on the outside, Courtney was
in the middle. At the start CotitftßWrot awayllrst,'
closely followed by Trickett audWaMfcy, Brioeland
shoeing up well, but ha was soou passeSKy M'Donald
and Riley, Wtisgerber last. For about half a mile tho
men kept tho fame places, both Courtney and Trickett
steering wretchedly, so much so that Conley had
ob'ainod a tremendous lead at the buoys. -Couilney
got around second, and Trickett, who had to pass four
bouys before he fonnd bis own, third, M‘Donald fourth.
Neither Courtney nor Triokrtt seemed to know that
Conley was fully fifty yards ahead of them, from the
rather lazy manner in which they pulled down tha
homestretch, and the finish was re .ched in (hat order ;
Rricoiand fourth, Weiegerber fifth, M‘Donald sixth,
and Riley last; time, 13m 39Js. 'Trickett protested
against Corley, declaring that Conley hiid not tamed
his buoy, Jjut the judges, said otherwise, *nd Trickett
lost kis chance. For the double setTs, the following
orews, faced the starter : Trickett and Oaudaur, Conley
and Hamm, Smith and Hosmcr, Wire, and Elliott.
Trickett and Oaudaur Jumped away with tho lead,
and Hamm looking olosHy after them, Elliott
and Wise last. This order was maintained t o the kuoya
a*d half-way|home, when Conley and Hamm made &
splendid apart and got on level terms with Trickett and
(Kudaur. A desperate struggle pusned, tut the llala-
gonlans were the best at tho game and eventual!, won by
three lengths, Hamm and Smith boat'ug Elliott and
Wise by a length for third place—a magniijeont lace.
The exact distance was 2 miles 1013 yards, and tho
official time, 15iu 47 Js In the Consolation Single,
s-ull, Oaudaur, Plaiated, Hosmor, Trickett, Riley and
B:lceland took part, with I,**, who had. arrived from
the island, rowing over tho courfO onthj outside for
the last prize in tho main race. Trickett and Hosmcr
o ought the gun-fire together. Tha distance was only a
m le and a half, so there was no saving of strength by
aiy oae. Trickett wna pulling about SSstp- kns, Hon-
m r 4-1. and laistcd 45, Awuy on the inside Oaudaur
was pulling in fine shape, and Riley was hanging on to
Hosiuer and keepiag a bit ahead of Brioeland. On the
ran down the men separated verv widely, Oaudaur bogg-
ing tho wharve. and Triclett earing away out. Part of
the way T,-o seamed to be overlapping Triikott At tha
flu'sh it was fo and that Trickett hal won by a short
le gth, Oaudaur second by three lengths from Hornier/
R lay fourth, Brioeland fifth, and IT listed holding ipde-
de tly aloof. Official time. 10m. 32i5.. The prizes
were £2O, £lO. and £5. On arriting nt the Toronto
boat-house a grout reception was given Irickelt, whoso
victory was most popular.
In Rnasifc, if you offer lodgings to a Jew. the
fin* is Q'ty rouble*; while in New Yotk, if you refuse
aooimniod»tion to one, you are fined £5 And yet
* Holy Russia! ’*
Gre-t activity amongst the Sewing machine
companies It app.ars that the Australian market ha*
booi Ho ded with counterfeit imitutions/of the world-
renown d “ Smger,” o. inferior construction and maun-
Ucturo, imder various names, which, by the way, were
tery V'-intodly referred to in the judges* report on the
Sydney Exhibition. And so tho Siager €o. have gor e
on the war-pai h, and have opened sub d«jpAts in New-
cas.le, Hftthurst. Oonlbnrn, Turn wo; th end Grafton
Hie chief depAt for New South Wales is tit No 1 Dar-
l i Xw res ', Harbo ” r - streefc Sydney. Latest betilntr
1,000,000 to 1, on 11 Singer.** 7
13
THE BULLETIN.
November 10. 1881.


ROSPEC T US
OF TILE
PATENT ASPHALTUM COMPANY OP NEW
SOUTH WALES (Limited),
To be registered under the Limited Liability Com-
panies’ Act of 1671, with liability limited to the
amount of the shares. Power will be reserved in
the Memorandum and Articles of Association to
increase the Capital to meet increase of business.
Capital :
£-30,000 IN 30,000 SHARES OP £1 EACH.
Calls—2s. GJ. on application, 2s. 61, on allotment,
2l 61. iu three months, 2s. 61. in six months, and the
remainder at discretion of the Directors. The whole
to be called up within 12 months from Ist December,
1831. The Provisional Directors and others have ap.
plied for, and will bo allotted in full, tbeir shares,
amounting to nearly ono-half of the proposed Capital.
A 1! other applicants will be allotted shares pro rata.
The share list will be closed as soon as the list is
complete.
Provisional Directors :
EuseoU Barton, Esq., M.P., Hudson, E-q.
(Messrs. Hudson Bros.).
Thomas Rowe, Esq., Architect. W. P. Faithful, Esq.,
Barrister-at-law.
Dr. Harman Tarrant, M.P, T. U. Eeigwin, Esq.
Samuel Gray, Esq. E. C. Batt, Esq.
(Messrs. Batt, Rodd, and Pnrves )
General Manaoer: ,
W. B. M'CLURE.
Brokers:
Messrs. T. J. Thomson and Son, Pitt-streot.
Mr. C. J. Buck land, Exchange.
.This Company is forming for the production of the
rations articles of manufacture, in which Asphaltum
orrassuch a prominent ingredient, in England, America,
uni other countries at the present time. A bare enu-
neration of these would occupy more apace than can
jo compressed within the limits of a Prospectus Its
ise is now applied to very man? of the requirements of
utilized life, and its adaptability and popularity are
lonstantly increasing.
In the manufacture of Paving Blocks for street traffic
n many important cities the consumption is large, with
increasing demand. The proper laying down of those
Blocks would form port of the Company’s operation,
with even larger profits being derived therefrom
ban are gained from their manufacture. The
dsphaltum preparations of the Company are the boat
naterial known for Tiling, are without odour, absolutely
mpervious to damp, and being proof against the attacks
jf fats or vermin, ns also spark-proof, are thus preferred
uid largely used for lining powder magazines, burial
vaults, granaries, cellars, paving stones, basements,
jonservatorics, public buildings, stables, carriage and
jtlier ont-housos. In the sheet form, it is used exten.
lively for garden paths, tenuis and recreation grounds,
frill grounds, school play grounds. The Tiles can be
made in diversity of size or pattern, and are being pre-
Wivd to other competitors.
BBeing specially adapted for conserving the purity o
water, it is invaluable in such a country as Australia
is a durable lining for tanks, conduits, and reservoirs;
while its damp-resisting qualities secure it preference m
foundations of buildings, lining sewers and tunnels, and
tor many other similar uses.
The refining of pure Asphaltum by the different
methods, to suit special purposes, has also proved to
be a lucrative branch of manufacture; this may be seen
at a glance, by reference to only a few of those speci-
alities For instance, coating for iron pipes, giruers,
bridges, or other iron structures—this coating is a
durable and effective preventative of co.rosion ; special
blocks are made for foundations of buildings, sea walls,
and harbour or river works ; a superior coating is made
for bricks or porous stone, rendering them water and
lir-proof.tlius fitting such materials for use in sewers
find cesspools, also coating sleepers and wharf piles;
Asphaltum Cloth is also made for builders’ use, to
make walls damp-proof, and for roofing is a substitute
for galvanized iron, '■ oiug cooler, cheaper, and as
durable ; besides also the refining of warranted brands,
for sale and use iu interior towns, and in many other
W No less than twenty-two companies have been formed
in the United States of America, and are now being
successfully woiked, and earning good profits m the
above business. Works of a similar nature are also
about to be established in London. Two sets of com-
plete works have been ordered by the Spanish Govern-
ment, the endurance of Asphalte work in ancient
Moorish buildings leading that Government to recog-
nise in this industry the revival of a hitherto lost art.
In Paris the manfacture is beiag established and
pushed, and has the suppbrt of French engineers and
men of science. If further satisfaction be wanted of
the certainty of success, printed and documentary
evidence is in possession of the Brokers of the Com-
pany. which affords indisputable proof of the profltab 0
business which must accrue to the Company when
formed; and, on application, full inspection will be
allowed, and ample proof given of the reliability of
every representation new advanced. w '
The Asphalte Block Company of London and New
York known as the International Pavement Company,
are Patentees of these various processes of manufac-
ture, and are applying the same for the purposes
mentioned and others of like nature.
Mr W. B M’Clure is their solo representative and
attorney in Australia, and it is proposed to purchase
from him all his rights of title and interest in this
Colonv, and secure his services as manager and
organiser of the affairs of the Company. He will ac-
cept the sum of £1513 in cash and £2500 in full paid up
shares of the Company, for all his Pal eat rights m the
Colony of New South Wales. An equitable Royalty to
the International Pavement Company exists on those
rights only vpplicnble however to the Block and Tiling
manufacture. And for a salary agreed upon, Mr
M'Clure undertakes to manage the business of the
Company until the Company is competent to manage f
its business without bis supervision.
There can be no competition, as the manufacture is
protected by several Letters Patent. .
The Patentrights and powers of attorney have been
examined and found correct and ample by a leading
Solicitor. . _ , ,
The International Pavement Company has agreed to
furnish all requisite machinery at prime cost.
A ter long search a property suitable for the works oi
the Company has been found, which can be bought or
rented as desired on reasonable terms, and on . •abiea
property nine-tenths of the materials required for tne
manufacture are obtainable. ,
The balance of Calls, after paying brokerage and
incidental formation expenses, will be applied to the
purposes of the Company such as purchase of machinery,
erection of works and plant, procurement of material,
and payment of wages till works are reproductive,
which it is estimated will be in eight months from tna
formation of the Company. , .
Large offers of wo k have already been made, bas
cannot be accepted until the Company is formed.
The probable profits on the proposed Capital are
estimated per cent., whilst increased Capital—as
the business enlarges—will show even a higher per-
centage of profit.
It is sufficient to say that genlleraen of intelligence
have satisfied thamselves with regard to the evidence
submitted to them ; and any person who is desirous cr
fuller and more particular information on any pom*
connected with the present Company, is referred to the
Brokers, or to Mr. W. B. M'Clure.
APPLICATION.
To Messrs. T. J. Thompson & Fon, and Mr. C. J. Buck-
land, Brokers tor the
‘•PATENT ASPHALTUM COMPANY OF NEW
SOUTH WALES (Limited)”
Gentlemen.
I hereby lequest that you will allot mo stares
iu the alov j Companv, and now enclose 2i. 61. P°*
share as deposit, and I hereby undertake to accept tb
above ihares or any port on thereof that may be allottiu
to me, an I to sign the Deed of Settlement when called
upon to do so.
Dat?d this day of .... 18S1.
Name in full
Address . -
Occupation
S E 0
0 N D TO NONE.
THE GIVE AT BOOK STORE,
16 and 18 Hunter-street.
CHRISTMAS CAROS.
The greatest variety in town, and most convenient
stock for selection.
REAL AUSTRALIAN FERN CAROS.
AUSTRALIAN FLORAL CARD 4,
The original series enly to he got at
TURNER AM) HENDERSON’S.
Beautiful assortment of handsomely hound Books for
Presents.
Gold and Silver Pencil Cases, Portrait Albums, Scrap
Books, &c. &c. Card Cases, Pocket Hooks, Writing
Cases, Portrait Frames, and every variety of Fancy
Goods suitable for presents.
TURNER AND HENDERSON,
1C and 13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
P
PIANOS.
lANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
MUSIC.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
J. MASSE? and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Mailer, Board, Aucher, Ac.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J. Massey and Sou offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
Systoou
MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 4th November, 1831.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermentioned
Gold-mining Leases within thirty days from this date,
they will be declared void,
ARTHUR EENWICK.,
Cobar Mining District.
No 3; Alexander Rankin and others; Portion No. 1
ol; County of Aobiuson, parish of Moquilamba; 25 1. ;
Application No. Bourke 13.
Tumut and Adeix).no Mining District.
No 86 j. Robert Colhotm ; Portion No. 24; County of
Selwyu, parish of Tackingal; la.; Application No.
Kiandra 79-9.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 4th November, 1881.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the Lessees
execute and take delivery of the undermen-
tioned Mineral Leases within thirty days from this
date, they will be declared void.
ARTHUR RENWICK.
No. 933; W. 11. Buckley and others; Portion No. 2;
County of Dudley, parish of Burragoug; 80a.; Applica
tion No. Bulladelah 21 m.
No. 1016; C. Hanson and others; Portion No. 156
ml ; County of Gough, parish of Stonehenge; 20a. ; Ap-
Glen lures 80-11 m.
No. 1069; James Best and another; Portion No. 6;
County of Cough,, parish of Boyd; 20a.; Application
No. Glen lanes 20m.
No. 1017; Vto Dhnaio; Portion No. 119 & 130;
County of Clive, p irish of Auuaudale; 40a.; Applica-
tion No. Veg. Creek 430.
No. 1021; John Woods; Portion No. 21; County of
Clive, parish of Annaudale; 20a..; Application No. Veg
Creek 442.
No. 1023; 6. A. Lean; Portion No. 30; County of
I Clive, parish of Bolivia; 20a.; App icatioa No. Veg.
[Creek -til.
No 1056; John Nagle and others; Portion No. 154;
parish of Gough, parish of Arvid; 20a.; Application No
Veg. Creek 335
No. 1053; Alfred Donnelly and others: Portion No.
157; County of Gough, parish of Arvid; 20a.; Applica-
cation No. Veg Creek 333
No. 1063; Peter Stahl; Porfon No. 56; County of
Gough, parish of Wellington Vale; 20a ; Application
No. Veg Creek 420.
No. 10S2; John Nag’e and others; Portion No. 612;
County of Gourii, parish of Wellington Vale; 20a.;
Application No. Veg. Creek 369
1035; Louis Webb; Portion No 159; County of
Gough, p iri-h of Strathbogie North; 20a; Application
No. Veg. Creek 421.
No. 1104; William Canter and others; Portion No.
134 & 185; County of Grugh, parish of Highland Home;
40a ; Application No. Veg. Creek 457.
No. 1123; W. White and others; Portion No. 33;
County of Arrawatta, parish of Lockerby; 20a. ; Annli-
cation No. 454.
No. 1124; James Cleaves an 1 others; Porfon No 39;
County of Arrawatta, parish of Lockerby; 40a.; Appli-
cation No. Veg. Creek 456.
No. 1153; John Rich and others; Portion No. 11-
County of Gough, parish of Fladbur/; 20a.; Appli.
cation ‘No. Veg. Creek 449.
Me. t. m. alco c k,
C7J Gaorgc-street, Haymarbet, Sydney,
In announcing to his numerous patrons and friends his
return to Sydney after 8 months’ absence, takes the
opportunity to inform them that dnring that period he
has vi.-Ped the principal centres of industry connected
with the Watch and Jewellery trades, among others,
the Waltham Watch Co., in the United States of
America, the manufactories of Geneva, and those of
Sheffield and London.
His visits to these various places of Manufacture
have enabled him to purchase at first cost an ex-
traordinarily large and varied assortment of all classes
of goods adapted to his business, which he is bow pre-
pared to submit for inspection at such low prices as
have never before leen announced in this o ty.
Presuming upon his long establishment h ire, he begs
most courteously to invite a visit froga all to whom
novelty ai d beauty of design, excellence of quality and
lowness of price form any attraction.
In conclusion, ho has most cordially to thank the
public in general for the highly esteemed patronage
hitherto conferred upon him, and to express ins hope
that such patronage will still continue to be extended
to him.—November, 1881.
SOCIAL.
There waa just a nice number at the Masonic
Ball, last week, in the Town Hall, tho dancing floor in
tbe vestibule not being at any time crowded. At nine
o’clock, the bovs Masons, in all the panoply of blue ana
white satin aprons, sailed majestically into the room
between two lines of biothreu, and then the whirl com-
mu need. Youth and beauty were there, of course, but
vonth did not predominate so much as at some bans.
Masonry and middle-age seem to go together, ibe
dresses, in many instances, wore exceedingly hand omo.
One beautiful robe was of delicate fawn silk, with long
train, the shade of colour being very rare and pretty.
A dork lady’s costume was white satin polonaise, tarle-
tan tkirt trimmed with Maltese lime. and having tho
front embroidered in green silk, and lilies of the valley
for a wreath. A fair girl wore a light blue silk broobe
and pearls. A dove-coloured silk.heavily trimmed with
ruby velvet, looked well. Miss Farnell wore pink sateen
covered with cream Madras muslin. A rich, warm-
looking dress, was ruby velvet body and cardinal silk
skirt silver flowers here and there. One of the sisters
who wore such immense huts at the Manly flower show
fand do still on “ tho block”) appeared in a short black
dross with white fluffs of swansdown all over it and also
on the long black veil, swansdown round the neck and
sleeves, and wreath. A handsome lady displayed a
Mack gros-grain silk, with train, -covered with black
Spanish laco. A heliotrope and maize silk was con-
siucoous. Miss Falk wore a silk brochc of light pink
hue Miss Tornaghi was attired in green silk, with rod
flowers and coral, and skirt trimmed with ticru lace.
A brunette (Mies Balzard) wore a rich costume of car-
dinal satin and black, which was much admired. Mrs.
Davies wore a satin of pink and black, elaborately puffed,
and black lace. Blue and silver looked pretty, so did
cream and scarlet satin. Miss Foy. a dark lady, looked
verv graceful in white satin sleeve.css body and tarletnn
skirt, bedecked with purple pansies, white and silver
wreath. Mrs. Roberts wore a magnificent pink satin,
trimmed with cream Spanish lace, looped with flowers,
and a wreath of lilies of tho valley and roses. Ji bis lady s
exquisite dancing was one of the features of the ball.
A dashing young lady looked quite charming in pale
pink silk, with tulle to form a shell pattern; high neck
and short sleeves. Another, in ivy-coloured silk
trimmed with lace, looked very nice. A mimed lady,
in peacock green velvet, trimmed with ssarletsilk and
oream lace, was very attractive. A brooidoi ivy silk,
t immed with scarlet satin, was very neat. A lady in
pale blub silk with silver trimmings, was also admired.
One lady’s appearance was marked by a harmonione
blending of colours; her dress was of bright blue, and sbs
had red-well.Bfty. trimmings. There were several hand-
some black brocades and satins, and other drosses wore
also handsome but not prominent. The music was a wee
bit “ rickety ” now and then, but muncians can hardly
play day and night and be perfect nil the time. Tho
Young Australians are known to 1 e good. At midnight,
or. to put it in tho language of the Ctaft, at high
twelve ** tho ladies donmd the Masonic regalia.
Carious people wanted to know why they did it, but as
It no daubt delighted the ladies, and did not hart any
one else, that is reason enough There was a belle of
tho ball, bat—let it bo whispered with bated breath—
among the married ladies. Tbe programmes wore such
as befitted tho occasion, with a design full of mystical
meaning, and unspeakably gorgeous. They were of
immense size, and gentlemen looked iu vain for a
pocket capacious enough to carry them, while ladies
had recourse to all sorts of ingenious plans for carrying
the gigantic things about safely. In point of execution,
these programmes were quite works of art. Mr.
Hart manager for H. R. Woods and Co., is
their designer. Tho portly host of a first-class city
hotel danced excellently—for hi* weight. Iho ex-
Premier did not participate with any marked success
in the maddening whirl. Supper was Hid in a large
apartment upstairs-a lino roomy place overlook-
ing the vestibule, with cool passages and sequestered
nooks. Every facility was provided for pairing off.
Not that anything of tho sort was seen, of course : any-
one who has learned that little moral ru e of behaviour
«Do unto others," etc., never secs what is not
intended (or public observation. When circumstances
indicate danger, every true Christian discreetly turns
bis head the other way, like tho transit man when an
alderman trots round a corner now. The decorations
were neat, though not extensive, and altogether tho ball
went off well.
• • •
Tho old est son of an auctioneer at Penrith will
shortly enter tho holy bonds with a young lady who
presides at tho organ in one of the local churches;
while the heir of a big business is taid to be contem-
plating a similar step, and if ha does, tho daughter of
a very old resident will be the cause.
• « •
A well known city lady in the soft goods line
has jnst completed a transaction of some importance—
her establishment having been enlarged by the addition
Of a husband an 1 five children. Soft goods, indeed!
• # *
. At Melbourne, last week, tho “Bohemians”
gave an amateur theatrical performance at the Athe-
iucuh, to a large and fashionable audience, and the
acting’ of some young lady amateurs was exceedingly
good We’re not rnvions of these talented young ladies;
we’ve one in Sydney that will outshine any amateur
Melbourne can produce. And she is not a Romany,
either.' _ _
• • •
A whisper from Parramatta comes to us of a
grand ball at the Woolpack, previous to host Wehlow’s
retirement to scones that ara “trooly rooral, id est,
Koxborough Hall, which property he has lately
purchased. * * •
A Mayoral ball is hoped for. Mind, we do not
say it is coming off. Perhaps the faint whisper has
been started by those to whom “ the wish is father to
the thought.” Bntyhore is a hope, and a whisper, too.
And if gentle pressure can help things along at all, the
f..ir ladies of Cronjingaloug can be quite trusted to do
their best.
« * *
There is no whisper about the Penrith hall.
There’s the ad. in bold black and white—Tuesday, 22ad
November, in the new Town Hall, plain and fancy, and
the City C.C. to find the oyster patties and ico-creMns.
•• The beautiful maids of the Ha»kesbury’’ are all in
arms (don’t misunderstand us, for heaven’s sake—that’s
classical language, you know) and eager for the fray.
• # •
A severe lady correspondent writes ns “ A
children V L-noy dress ball is on the tapis. So the
fashionable news inform us, and the suggestion, no
doubt, emanated from some kindly disposed indivi-
dual anxious to give the little ones pleasure, but whose
intention, wo venture to ssv, is not the result of sober
or' wholesome thought. There is no picture on lhis
fair earth more fair than that of happy innocent child-
hood; Lnt that state of sinless innocence will not be
best preserved by a premature introduction of habits
an i indulgences that are lot alwavs commendable to
their elders. Fancy a group of sweet young children
inducted into the mysteries of a ball-to un. What an
indecorous state of things, and what a hideous travesty
for unspotted ch.ldhood to be engaged in! What,
indeed, would our grandmothers have said to this ?”
> • * * *
At a recent wedd’ng in the country, the bride
expectant was so painfully arxous that everything
.bould go well—tho breakfast be nicely arranged,
flowcri set out to advantage, &e. &c.—that she gravely
suggested she w. iild remain at home herself lo super-
i tend Dungs- It was not until someone had inquired
who was lo taffe her place at the altar that tho dear
y„ n vk lady saw tho extreme Indicronsness ef tho
situation. # • •
There was a fashionable wedding at Darling-
hnrst on Wednesday—the youngest daughter of a
leading doctor and a beu g united.
Another wedding in Liverpool. This time the
happy couple was Mr. Robert Gray, of Parramatta, and
Miss Emmie Ashcroft, of Liverpool Ihe bnde, wio
..attended- by seven bridesmaids, was dressed ia a
ric h French grey corded silk, eu traine, trimmed
With satin to match, and Breton laco. The sleeves and
bodv were puffed a I’antique, and the skirt was pi fled
and gathered in alternate rows. The bride’s sister,
wha officiated as chief bridesmaid, was dressed in a
white tarletan dress, about” walking ’’ length, trimmed
with three rows of narrow kilting, and then puffed to
the waist, bbo also wore a white cap. The other
bridesmaids were similarly dressed, with the exception
of the colour of the cap, twoof the young ladies having
caps coulenr da rose, two ('em, and the other two bleu
de ciol. The bride was also attended by two little
mites, aged about four, who, in their pretty white
dresses, looted like little angels. After the ceremony
the guests were regaled with a sumptuous dejeuner,
and iu the evening a ball was given to the young people.
Mr. and Mrs. Gray spent the honeymoon at Mittagong.
♦ * •
On the 9th, the charming daughter of a leading
storekeeper was married at Glen luness to a commercial
gentleman from Sydney. Choral service rendered bv a
ladv organist in grand style j church crowded. The
bride's dress was white satin, trimmed with heniton
lace, veil and orange blossoms. Four bridesmaids, two
in cream trimmed with cardinal satin, caps to match,
and two iu bine trimmed with dark blue satin, caps to
match. Sumptuous breakfast and numerous presents.
Local poet bloomed in verses, six of ’em, and some
rhyme in each. We can’t be behind on such an occa-
sion. Oar forte in the poetic line is brevity.
Clara killed a
Lover read.
Sweet Matilda
Now is wed.
* • •
Tho seventh annual Masonic ball took place at
Glen limes last week ; between 50 and 00 present, who
all enjoyed it. Mr. Browne, of tho Commercial, pro-
vided refreshments, and Mrs. Cardan and Mr. Aked
the music. Tall young lady in white satin thought to
bo belle, while a maiden in cream and cardinal looked
nice.
• • •
Picnic to Macloav Hoads on Prince of Wales
Birthday in aid of Kcmpsey Hospital. CUrcnoe and
Richmond S.N. Co. gave Platypns and Bdmore steamers
free of charge. One thousand people attended, and
£92 19s. O<L was bagged for the Hospital. Steamer
started at 6 a.m , and stack on mud coming back, and
did not arrive till 1 a.m. next morning. Numerous
couples seemed to enjoy delay. Soma enterprising
individual n.ng the church or Arc bell at 3 30 a.m. to
rouse out the inhabitants to bo ready to start. No
accident during picnic. Several families who lived at a
distmee from Kempsey stayed up all night on the Bth
so as to bo in time.
• *
The Globe Assembly closed their season on
Tuesdav week with a plain and fanov dress ball, in the
Glebe Town Hall, who h was tastefully decorated for
the occasion. About 70 couple wore present; the
moat attractive dreasos were an Italian Girl, dressed in
cardinal satin, and certainly the belle—Peasant Girl,
Tambourine Girl, Parlour Maid, Night, French Flag,
Vsler.tino, Pirate King, Sailor, Footballer, &o. The
cateiiug was well managed by Mr. J Purves.
* # #
Five bachelors in Townsville, who have pnt up
In bachelor’s quarters, have called their house “ Tbe
Orphanage," and nro known themselves as tho orphans.
• • •
A man in Townsville comes is strong,
As, with distingui mien,
Ho walks the city streets along,
To see, and to be seen.
With hat and stick, and lordly fuss.
This would-be swell will go-
lfs better hi ridiculous,
Than unobserved, you know,
* • •
Tho members of the Teachers’ Institute and
their friends had a picnic on Saturday. Nice party,
cool weather —up Middle Harbour; and a man did not
need to ba a millionaire to purchase a ticket.
# # #
Government Printing Office picnic to Clontarf
on Saturday. Commodore (s ) and Thetis (s.) took down
several hundred people. Under tho patronage of C.M.Q.
Racing, dancing, and luncheon.
• • •
A calico ball lately in the Pand Hall, Wellington,
in aid of local hospital; large attendance, but mixed.
Fancy dresses were not plentiful; two chief ones being
a 15 st. maid«.n, who represented nothing in particular,
and the photo, roan, who was a clown—both considered
as in suitable character. Lot of beauty: daughters of
resident C.P.S. wore prettiest costumes. Democratic
programme on bad cardboard; music tolerable; finish
at 3 a.m.
# # »
Miss M ,as Felina, from “ Mignon.” a
Mrs. Martin's ball, was greatly admired. Tbe assump-
tion of the character was the first attempted here.
The dross was composed of pale pink and Lina silk,
massive go d jewellery, long kid gloves, and high boots
with gold tassels.
• • •
Vice-Admiral Wilson’s ball this (Thursday)
evening promises to be a mo it brilliant affair. The
Wolverene’s quarter-deck is already transformed into
a fairy scene of beauty—one or two of tho officers,
celebrated for their high mstbotic taste, giving some of
their spare time in attending to the decorations. It is
looked forward to as one of the last series of entertain-
ments ho will give on our waters. Many a youthful
beauty will shine superlatively bright, as new costumes
and double injunctions to tbe designer to bo pains taking,
are the order of the day. Those entertainments are
much more enjoyable than those of Government House,
inasmuch as one meets one’s own set of people only—
not a plum-pudding mixture, with invariably the
lemon-peel prominent.
• * *
Tho programing for Prince of Wales Birthday in
Townsville was to consist of “Volunteer sports" iu
the afternoon and a ball in the evening.
• • •
An enjoyable Masonic concert and soiree dan-
sante was given on Tuesday in the Masonic Hall. At
tho concert, Mrs. Riley was in good voice, and Miss
Chapman sang a pretty ballad well. Mr. Hughes
played national melodies on the violin, and Mr. Hodge
also perf rtned. At the close of tho concert, the
guests were invited to inspect the lodge-room while
the hall was boirg cleared for dancing. The elegant
furniture, pictures, and paraphernalia were interesting.
We looked for the poker and the billygoat which play,
we believe, such important parts in tho ceremonies
when novices have to be initiated into tho mysteries of
tho Masonic art, but they were not there. Most
probably they wore “ planted,’’ as these affairs have to
he kept very secret. On going downstairs, dancing
commenced; tbs ball was nicely decorated, and so were
the ladies. The catering and tho capering were equally
satisfactory to the festive and frisky fo ks who partici-
pated. A young lady in black, relieved with cardinal
trimming, was much admired; while another, in car-
dinal and black lace, shone brightly. A brunette, in
light blue silk, was very powerful; and two pretty
blondes, one in black and old gold, and the other in
white satin, were creditable to their parents. One ft
the concert singers wore a verv rich costume, and a
“ block ” blonde was more mischievous than a tramcar.
A good dancer in pale blue, and a prettv blonde girl
from Balmain in black sateen and gold trimmings,
looked good. A pretty girl in pink silk looked very
elegant; while one in white, slashed with pale yellow,
necklace of pearls and bracelets to match, was as
brilliant as a comet. Music good, and break up in the
small hours.
Producer Report.
The Bulletin Office, November 13, 1881.
On tho wharves, to-day, prime old lucerne ia sell-
ing slowly at from £3 to £2 IDs per ton. Fint-class
green hay scarce at £2 10s.to £2 15s per ton. The
raai ket is overstocked with inb-riornew hay. which is
almost unsaleal.le ftt from 20s to 30s per ton. Maize. 4s.
Oats (prime seed aud feed). 2s 91 to 3s; inferior, 2s to
2i 61 per bushel. Circular Head potatoes, £5 10s per
ton. Victorian chaff, £5 per ton, bags inclusive.
Hunter River onions (now) £l2 to £ll per ton. Butter,
in kegs, 61 to 8d per lb. Eggs, 101 to Is per dozen.
Bacm, 51 to 7d. Cheese. 6d to 91. Ham, 91 to lid.
Honey, 31d to 41. Lard, 4d to 51. Beeswax. 9.1 to lOd.
Millet brooms 8s to 10s per dozen.
Flock. —There ia a good deal of flour otrenner, tho
quality of wbicb is inferior. Good brands maintain
their value, and holders aro firm, as it will ba some
time yet before new is available. Prices are: for
Sydney mill flour, superfine. £ll 10s; household £l2
10s; seconds, £1110s; N S.W. country brands, £l3 to
£l3 10s ; Victorian, £l2 lOsto £l3 10s; Adelaide, £l2 10s
to £l3 10s per ton. Bran and pollard. Is to Is 2d par
bushel. . .
Wheat —These has been very little wneat of prime
quality to baud during the we dr, and at last auction
sale a few prime lots wore withdrawn, prices not being
nr) to vendors’ limits. Prices arc: Adelaide 5: 9d to
5s lid, ce’onial 5; 91 to 5s lid. Victorian 5 1 9 J, Now
Zealand 5 i 21, Launceston 5s 41, per bushel.
Fat Cattle —At the sales yesterday a
moderate supply of fat cattle were forward, aud tho
market a shade Armor. Best beef, 2)s per ICO lb.
Fat Sheep.— A short supply far word, and market
firm. 56-lb shorn wethers, 10s 6J.
■ Fresh Meat —At the Riverstone Meat Co. s sheds,
Darling Harbour, the usual sales of country killed beef
take place daily, a goed supply arriving, and selling
freely. Prices are—for prime bodies of beef, 2.1 to 2JI
per‘lb- all round.
Poultry —Fowls aro selling at from 4s to 4s 61;
ducks, 5s 61 to 6i; geese, 5s 6d to 6s 61; pigeons. Is 61
to 2s 6J ; turkeys, 6s to 14s.
In last week’s issue, by an error, the signature
of Ironbark waa put to the contribution “ Might versus
Right" instead of to “ The Yellow Agony.”
14
November 19, 1881.
THE BULLETIN.


Business Announcements
A.
0. OHUBCHWOOD,
SALT MERCHANT.
IMPORTER and MANUFACTURER
of
COFFEE?,
PEPPERS,
and
CONDIMENTS,
SPICES. RICE, and MEALS.
STEAM MILLS, WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
OFFICE and STORES:—II7 TORI STREET,
SYDNEY.
pURE CHINESE TEAS.
Messrs. QUONG TART & CO.
Have much pleasure in announcing that they have
opened at
3:0 GEORGE STBEET, SYDNEY
(Opposite the French 6afis),
AN AGENCY FOR THE FAMOUS
LOON SHAU TEAS.
Mess's. QUONG TART and Co. will also submit for
'tublio approval HilVs aud General Merchandise.
N.H.—Mr. QUONG TART has just returned from
a visit to China, where he in person selected the above-
mentioned Teas, so that their purity can be guaranteed.
INSPECTION INVITED.
300 GEORGE STREET—SHOW BOOM, UPSTAIRS,
Near Hunter-street.
F. T. WIMBLE
STEREOTYPE/^.
-AND- ,
Foundry
—AND—
h*y PRINTERS’
I WAREHOUSE,
2 Hamilton St., Hunter St.,
s'sriDisrzE'sr.
0 it 70 LITTLE COLLINS STEEET, MELBOURNE.
s
HERIDAN & FULLFORD,
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS,
91 PITT-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Henst A. Sheridan, formerly Manager of the; Com.
mercial Bank, Maitland.
James Fullford, of West Maitland.
JIURKE, COULSON, & LEEDS
AUCTIONEERS, WOOLDROKEUS,
STOCK, STATION,
and
GENERAL COMMISSION AGENTS,
112 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
And ORANGE.
READ THIS !!
THE BAKING POWDER
MANUFACTURED BY US AND KNOWN
AS DOCTC R
WAUGHS
has a wide, reputation for
EXCELLENCE ..OF QUALITY
; AND THE CHEMICAL JUDGES OF THE
SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION
H AVE CERTIFIED TH AT IT IS REALLY
THE -PUREST AND.
BEST IN THE WORLD
B V AWARDING T O US THE
ONLY PRIZE MEDAL
GIVEN IN THE BAKING POWDER SECTION
FOR FIR ST DEGREE OF MERIT
SOLD EVERY WHERE IN PAPER PACKETS
, OR SQUARE TINS
MANUFACTORY QUEENS PLACE
SYDNEY, II
WILLIAM DAVIES 80 COY.
s
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE,
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-streot South.
S
HOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
Q. F. MURPHY.
Regent House, 869 George-stroct South.
B
RITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
WAREHOUSE.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 859 Qeorge-street South.
(APERHANGINGS WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-streof.South.
HITE LEAD, OILS. COLOURS, CEMENT
Ac., &c.
G. P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 859 George-etreet So nth.
— IJ *‘ "■■■
T|LATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE P. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
m
m
DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sowing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ORLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and .GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1381.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agricultural
Show, 1877,1881. Do., Bathurst, Oonlburn, Mndgoe,
Singleton, Windsor, Ac.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at Melbourne International, ail assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B. O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.
Solo Agents,
671 George-stroet.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest Improvements. Highly finished. Has the Now Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and sco this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can bo soon working at the Depot, .
68 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO ’BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND C O.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
Tailors, Drapers, feo.
ALL GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHRUNK
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
J TURNER EOBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 481. GEORGE-STHEET,
Opposite the Fruit' Markets,
Established IS6I.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, LEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONARUK
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s Cd.
H
AVE YOU BEEN
TO
R. MORPHET’S,
233 Pitt Street?
E
LISES PAPKE CUT PATTEENS,
All communications to bo addressed to
(• **
No. 12 PARK STREET, SYDNEY - ,
Six doors from George-street.
Orders for Pattern? cannot bo executed unless pto-
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns are unequalled ia
stylo, cut, and finish, being modelled from latest Parisian
Fashions, and are always sent pot return of post on
receipt of stamps or money order.
Yj XING STREET, SYDNEY
O 4 (two doors from Goorge-stroet),
And 23 Victoria Arcade, Bourke-stnet, Melbourne.
MADAME DEMO REST'S Perfect fitting
AMERICAN CUl’ PAPER PATTERNS. Newest
styles etery mail from Paris and New York.
Pull directions and illustrations with each pattern.
MADAME DEMOREST’S publications are Folios ol
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to wear. Is.; Monthly
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis.
MISS LOUISA HARRIS.
161
KING STREET,
SYDNEY.
(Near Tramway),
MADAME WEIGEL’S
Paper Patterns of Dresses,
Mantles, etc., cut in different
sizes tor Ladies and Child,
ren furnished with illustra
tious and directions for mak*
ing up. Sold nt prices rang-
ing from 6d to 2s. Newest
styles monthly In WEIGEL'S JOURNAL OP
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by post, 8d; or 6s per
annum, post free. Catalogue of Fashions, 3.1,
Patterns sent to any part of the colonies on receipt
of price and measure. Postage Stamps accepted.
Address:
MADAME WEIGEL,
161 King-street, Sydney.
r
9
Si
r.
m
X
%
a
Os'
&WA
0
S^si
m
w*
&
V
9k
tA-
A
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER & lEONFOUNDEE,
MINING, TEAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK
FIRE
AND
BURGLAR
pr'oof
SAFES
AND
DOORS.
GIRDERS.
STOVIS,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
I BOXES,
Ac., to.
Works: SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STEBE T.
ELMONT HOUSE AND HOTEL.
LAKE MACQUARIE,
IS THE BEST, HEALTHIEST, AND PRETTIEST
PLACE in the Colony for Ladies and Gentlemen reqnir
ing REST, or CHANGE of AIR, or good SAIT-WATER
BATHING.
GOOD BOATS FOR HIRE.
'*~Chy
BEASSFIXISHEES, COPPEESMITH3,
Plumbers and Gasfitters,
BLACKSMITHS.
BON ACCORD WORKS,
9 Macquarie Place,
SYDNEY.
This Is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, *c.; is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safe'y.
This GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when propeily made, is entirely free from
all smell and smoko. The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace :
in some cases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
Importers and Manufacturers of DIVING GEAR, CHANDELIERS, &c. Shipments Received monthly.
Medalists and Special Prize holders.
Patentees for the Celebrated MARSHALL WINDOW FASTENER.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Flowing TRESSES
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
.That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
• Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—*
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
THE "PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCURF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Shin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
FOUR
FRIZES.
TWO AT PARIS, 1873.
SYDNEY", 1830.
GOLD MEDAL, MELBOURNE, 1831.
PRICES APPROXIMATELY SAME AS GALVANIZING.
Quotations given for every description of Ironwork and all re-
quirements for Railways, Wharf;, and Mining Companies.
Unlike Galvanizing, it affords a perfect protection to the Iron,
being, as claimed, Rustless and Incorrodible.
THE
RUSTLESS AND GENERAL
IRON CO.,
3 Queen’s Place, Cannon-Street,
LONDON. E.C.
ANTI-CORRODO (Barff’s) TUBES
& FITTINGS,
For Gas, Steam, and Water; also Black (not
treated) Galvanized and Enamelled
LAPWELDED BOILER TUBES.
Sole Agent for the Australian Colonies —
COWARD & TEMPLE,
19 Hunter-street, Sydney.
JOHN SA ND S’
AUSTBALIAN CHRISTMAS
• and
NEW YEAR CARDS.
This Collection has been specially designed to meet a
much needed requirement, namely, that of providing
cards suitable for sanding home calculated to com oy to
our friends an idea, not only of the beauty of our
scenery and flora, but, at the same time, show the
advance Australia, and Sydney in particular, is making
in Iho Fine Arts.
There being an erroneous idea prevalent—owing to
their excellence—that these cards nave been produced
iu Europe from colonial designs, I take this opportunity
of informing the public that they have been specially
drawn on stone by Artists in my employ, and produced
by the Chromo-Lithographie process at my own works,
and are the result of a competition held at tho Art
Gallery of N. S. W., in May last, for premiums of the
value of fifty guineas, given by me for the best Christ-
mas Card Designs. '4 hese are thirty-eight in number,
and include, amongst other cards illustrative of Bush
Life, Australian Animals, Fruits, Flowers, Birds, and
Insects, Colonial Scenery,' Amusements of Children,
Pastoral and Allegorical subjects, and will in each case
have verses appropriate to the occasion selected from
those gaining the premium of twenty-five guineas
recently given by me.
The cards will be on sale on and after Monday,
October 17, and may be obtained at all stationers in the
colonies, and direct from
JOHN SANDS’
CHEOMO-LITHOGKAPHIC WORKS,
374 Goorge-street.
jj A T I D M ‘ C A L L,
14, Hunter-street, Sydney,
SADDLER AND HARNESS MAKER,
By special appointment.
To his Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, His
Excellency the Right Hon. the Earl of Belmcre,
His Excellency Sir Hercules Eobiuson, K.C.M.0.,
and His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftua.
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest Designs always on
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen’s Saddles
• Agricultural Exhibition, 1883, 1870, 1873, and 1875.
THE Most PERFECT-FITTING GARMENTS
are
SMITH and MANSELL’S
CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS,
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/- the half-dozen.
SMITH AND MANNELL,
Shirt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN'S MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney
(One door South of Hunter-street.)
VISIT E. BUEGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
for
CHEAPNESS, FIT,, and WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any part of
the Coiony.
15
THE BULLETIN.
November 19, 1881.


MOST PLEASANT
WANTED TO BE KNOWN,
that the heat cleansing' DISINFEC-
TANT and Deodoriser for the pi evoutiou of
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
can he fo'ind hr using
PANTER AND PARRY SHEW EXTRACT
OP SOAP,
which not only contains the pared ingre-
dients for the greatest oloinsing properties
ever yet intro luce 1 to the public, hut is
composed in its manufacture of one of the
host disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM INDIGENOUS
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all fever districts
throughout the globe. Combined with which,
it is free from all injurious colour, has a
pleasing smell, will not injure the most deli-
cate hands, is the greatest time-saving of
labour, rendering any article cleansed tl O'-e-
-with of the purest whiteness in the most
marvellous short space of time. In fact,
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
as it cannot be surpassed for the Washing
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crockery, Oluset
Paint, Floors,
and every Household Purpose.
DIRECTIONS for which will he found on
EACH PACKET, which may he obtained
from all Grecers and Storekeepers through-
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IN THE WORLD.
mm
mm
Dispense Prescriptions cheaper than any
other House in Sydney. All kinds of Patent
Mwlioinos at less than English prices.
Perfumery, Fancy Soaps, Sponges, Ac.
ALL KINDS OF DRUGGISTS’ SUNDRI’ S.
Send for a Price List. Country orders punctu-
ally attended to. Don’t forgot the Address-
Yon eannot mistake it—
Opposite Hordern’s Now Buildings.
I
am
m
v&V.*-?
‘MM
Si
W. KERR,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER,
WATCH AND CLOCK MAKER,
06i GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Opposite St. Andrew’s Cathedral.
Medals of every description, Masonic Jewels and Pro.
sontation Trowels designed and mode on the
Promises.
DIAMOND SETTER I
A new and Choice Assortment of Goods per every
Mail and always in stock.
Waltham Watches, from £3 to £2B.
118
INC
STREET
SYDNE'
JAILOR Qg
n
&
o 0
moy
m *<4s
«#
a
i
*
rY
E
POSTOFFL
ATTENDANTS AT THE
SUPREME COURT
TO ORDER.'^t
FITGUARANTEED!
fill HANDWORK.
NEWEST FASHIONS.
BEST SELECTED STOCK IN
SYDNEY.
COOPER A CO.,
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANTS,
<. CENTRAL STORES:
871 PITT STREET,
Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets.
Country loiters will receive our caiefnl attention.
389 GEOflGE-ST.,
Sydney.
LIFFORD, LOYE.ANDCO
TEA IMPORTERS,
EASTERN AND COMMISSION
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments, aud now are i
receipt of 10
TEAS —China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Modal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize Medal
PRESERVES —Indian Prize Medal
COFFEE —Plantation No. 0
Do. „ Poaberry
Do. ~ Noe. 1 and 2.
RICE —Saigon
' Do. Patna
Do. Japan
T A PlOCA—Flake and Pearl
SAGO
PEPPEE-White and Black \
OFFICES 70 YORK STREET
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
JOHN DANES,
IMPORTER OF
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswrro, Sanitary Won
Qasdttings, Globes, Electrie Bells, Pumpa,
Butchers’ Brine Pumps,
Iron, Brass, Copper, Tin,
and Lead Pipe, Ac.
110 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
T
B
O
U
8
E
BJ
H. L. SUMKERFIELD,
ECONOMY IN CLOTHING.
o
SAVE 20 PER CENT. BY PROCURING
YOUR GOODS FROM TUB
DIRECT IMPORTER.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILOR,
PATTERNS
and
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT
tent to any port of the country.
sa - The particular attention of country resi-
dents is requested to this notice.
Any style of Garment made to Fit by using
SUMMERFIELD’S
GUIDE TO SELF-MEASUREMENT.
235 PITT STREET, |
Trousers..... 16s. 6d„ 20s , 255.
Saits ... £3 3a., £3 10s , £4 4s.
30C0 PAT PERNS TO CHOOSE FROM.
THE PATENT REVETTED BUTTONS
ON ALL TROUSERS.
EVERY GARMENT THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
FIT GUARANTEED.
SYDNEY.
B
a
u
i
fir
B
E. GREER AND CO.'S
PRIZE
ALBURY WINES.
Red Wines : White Wines
Burgundy
Corbiuot
Shiraz
Malboc
Reisling
Vordoilbfl
Muscat
Malaga
Tokay ..
CELLARS s
15 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
AND
ALBURY, N.S.W.
Tbe Terms of subscription for The Bulletin are 4 -!*
advance, per annum, 125.; balfricar, 6a.; quarterly,
35.; booled, 6d. per quarter extrq Remittances may
be made by stamps of any Australian colony or N.Z.,
or by money order, payable to W, H. Traill and Co.,
24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.B W. -~
Printed and published by W. 11. Traill A Cdw
The BcLLExitf Office, 24 Pitt-'strcoA, Sydneyv N.S.
Wafts. _ v
MARTIN & PAIN,
S8S QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY, £
ag
'
m.
<
S
KORNsuy
TEEL StRIPPEE
tJTe sold 9 of our HORNSBY’S STRIPPERS last year,
and every purchaser has scut us aa good a testimonial a>
It Is possible to write.
COPIES OF THESE TESTIMONIALS POSTED TO EVERY ENQUIRED
«T FARMERS see the ITORXSll 1
BBFORI ORDKB.1KQ iiY OTUKIU
HORNSBY'S STRFX'STRIPPERS
Are unquestionably the Beet.
they aft the MOST CORRECT In PRINCIPLE.
They Ore the MOST Simple in CONSTRUCTION.
They ttre the MOST FAITHFULLY BUILT.
They are the LIGHTEST in DRAUGHT.
They are MADE of the BEST MATERIALS.
They do the BEST and CLEANEST WORK.
"sr steel strippers
THE DRIVING WHEELS ARE STEEL.
THE PINION WHEELS ARE STEEL.
THE DRUM BEATERS ARE STEEL.
THE drum SPINDLY are STEEL.
THE FINGERS OF COMB ARE~STEEL7
We Guarantee Every Hornsby Strippen.
FARMERS, READ TIER ABOVE I
Ro other Firm tier* the lame Advantage* «*• dr
J j BEND IN YOUR ORDERS EARLY.
Agents MARTIN & PAIN
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REAL GOOD BATH.
None better than WIQZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Sydney. "
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY ONE. --'*" FOE
C. E. WIG ZELL, BATHS,
Oxford-street, ■'YTs V HAIR - CUTTING ,
STAGE AND STREET WIOS )
'— -And Ornamental Hair Work.
See WIGZELL,
139 & 141 OXIORD STREET, SYDNEY, Opposite Palmer Street.
ov
SYDNEY
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOtt
HERMITAGE.
VIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PEE GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/. per dozen.
SHIRAZ ■) Fruity
MADEIRA j Wines
BURGUNDY > Dry
EIRSLINQ ] Winee
}w-
} 21/-
G. H. STEPHEN & CO., 1
Wine Growers and Merchants,
13 Bridge Street.
WINES.
AWARDED
SEVEN PRIZES,
SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL,
too. i 4c.
PRUITT WINES
6 /-
PEE GALLON.
;>\v '*-■
li* ’- -‘i STANDARD
S READY-MADE-SUITS
Vi;
i==S*
: hWM
■ m v*. o jt. jl a v/ v* iJ
y : . ■ ■ '
4;.
m.
',.;vv
im
vrclling
m
:■ £iWiV?
C:i,
ittp
_f ■*•.. f• f Picmcing:
Dursbil ity ~ .... , .. •
UNSURPASSED . CriCketlllg
Fries List For
Fust Qu lity Standard Tweed Saits .£1 12s Gd.
Ex r 4 do. do. do. 1 15 0
Sap(rior do. do. do. ... ... 2 2 0
First Quality Standardßlue Serge 115 O
Ex tr do. do. do. 2 2 O
PEAPES & SHAW,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FULLER’S
CHRISTMAS CARD EXHIBITION
IS NOW ON,
385 AND 387 GEORGE STREET.
CARDS Gd. A DOZEN TO 10s, EACH.
