

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 7—No. 87.
SYDNEY, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1881.
Price —3d.
§ii([ctin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1881.
Conspiracy.
There are sins which become great in proportion
to the social status of the sinner. The cobbler
may get drunk and blaspheme, if not with im-
punity, at least with a minimum of blame ; but a
bishop filled full with wine and obscenity, though
not an unprecedented fact in history, would as-
suredly be a mark for the irony of all schismatics,
the condemnation of each true son of the Church,
and the merited contempt of mankind. And so
some low-bred blatant demagogue may hang,
draw, and quarter the kingliest king in the pur-
lieus of the tavern ; may even spout cheap sedi-
tion at street corners, and call upon the long-
suffering people to rise and follow him to liberty
and enfranchisement, and glorious idleness and
everlasting fame, and none but some feeble old
female will tremble or turn pale; but, let the
accredited legislator breathe of revolution, though
beneath the gentle guise of constitutional change,
and how loud a murmur of approval or surprise
comes up from the nation’s heart, and how darkly
condemnation sits in the expression of his master’s
eyes ! And rising most naturally grade upon grade,
the interests of mankind culminate upon the
movements of the masters themselves —the con-
sultations of monarchs, the conspiracies of kings.
It is the fashion to believe that a nation will fol-
low the wave of a sceptre, and that a crown in
motion is generally the oriflamme of war.
* # •
Mr. Froude in his very clever history tells us
that if Elizabeth Tudor had not taken off
Mart Stuart’s head, his Holiness of Eome
would have ruled the world to-day. Because, in
that case, James, of immortal memory would most
certainly have been nurtured in his mother’s creed,
and the great and manifold blessings of his glori-
ous reign would not have been dispensed. The
argument is too lengthy to follow through, but,
allowing its justice, it does not seem altogether
strange to have the good news flashed to us
that the result of the meeting of the European
Emperors will be the assurance of European con-
cord. Yet when we remember how vulnerable
these earth gods are to a handful of dymanite or
a charge of shot, it does provoke a smile to think
that beings so frail should rule destinies so vast;
that the mandate of a monarch should be more
potent than the impulses of a people, or that the
voice proceeding from one very feeble old man
should lead a million similar but superior mortals
out to battle and murder, or send them to their
labours and their kennels like chidden dogs.
There is comedy in the thought.
* # #
But, rightly regarded, this meeting of monarchs
is strangely significant. It is not for progress,
nor, of necessity, for peace. Its purpose is at any
cost to establish the “ right Divine ” bequeathed
by ages ; to crush out all aspirations for liberty
and all plottings of faction, at all hazards and by
any means. To hold fast to that motto, framed for
kings alone, Dieu et mon droit,
* * *
Most of us have read the simple stories of M.
M. Erckmann-Chatrian, and we remember the
terrible emotion of the young peasant soldier
when, for the first time, he realized the truth that
above and against him, and heart and soul opposed
to him, was leagued a ring of coronets, to whom
the welfare of the people was the merest feather
weight when placed on the scale against the suc-
cession to hereditary title or real estate —to whom
home-ashes slaked in blood, and bodies bayonet-
mangled, and limbs shot-torn, and true hearts
broken by insufferable agony, were but coins
minted by God Almighty for their especial use,
and rightfully expended in their royal service.
The realization of that ghastly truth crushed the
last lingering emotion of loyalty in the patriot’s
heart. The heir of St. Louis became to him
from that moment a deadly foe, and the courtly
emigre a serpent his heart’s warmth had nurtured
to requite tenderness with the probe of a venomed
fang. Sorry the lot of Kaiser and Czar when once
the meanest hind of their dominions realizes the
same black truth ; and that realization will most
assuredly come. Naught save power to grasp the
universal mind of man, and crush out the quicken-
ing spirit of liberty, will avail to perpetually
postpone it; and fiat power even the most holy
oil of anointing has failed to bestow. We men of
Saxon blood discovered that truth more than two
hundred years ago, and we took an anointed one
and bowed his head to the block, and at one quick
stroke severed the long-leased life of humbug for
ever. And when, for our own advantage, and to
restrain the unbearable ambition of our elected
chiefs, we chose another king, we gave him a
charter, and environed him with certain privileges
and duties and rights, and we bade him look to
that legend in our history which says ;—“ Woe to
that imbecile who dreams to put his foot upon the
neck of the people who uplifted him !”
• « m
Through yet another hundred years, the Gaul
bore the cincture of the burning ring ; and when
at length, stung into thought by the agony of its
pressure, the memory of his sufferings made him
mad, he followed the promptings of his spirit as
faithfully as Joshua and his chosen people their
beacon of fire, to a conquest as merciless, and
with an equal zeal.
* * *
The awakening of Teuton,and of Sclav, is a longer
process—partly by reason of their more sluggish
mood, but chiefly because they have been ruled
with subtler craft. The Teuton rider has filed
down his rowels and slackened the curb; and the
Muscovite has worked upon ignorance, and bar-
barity, and superstition, with sops of half-hearted
enfranchisement, the crushing force of legions,
the black horror of the Arctic dungeon and
mine, and the discipline of the knout. But in the
darkest land, and through the grossest depth of
delusion or debasement, a wandering spirit winged
in some strange hour, and knocked at the door of a
dreamer’s heart, and whispered, “ Dieu et mon
droit.” And the dreamer awoke, and knew of a
certain the man who had robbed him of his right,
and went up to demand it. But robbers do not
lightly yield their prey. The man of Eight
Divine cried, “ God gave it to me, and woe be to
him who shall strive to take it away !” And he
dealt out full measures of woe, and the suppliant
got stripes for solace, and returned to his cham-
ber to plot a surer plan.
# # #
Now the happy spectator without the arena
beholds opposed to each other two world-rending
factions. On the one hand, kings—kings of every
shade of colour and of every grade of majesty and
power.—Does not King Kalakua sit down at
Cesar’s right hand, and is it by any means sure
that C.3SSAR would refuse the left to King Billy
of Tumberumba, if his pedigree were decently
assured ? —And, upon the other hand, the world-
wide brotherhood of dynamite and the torch. The
’’•st, poor victims of inherited delusion; the second,
men maddened by despair’s black burden, and the
accumulation of burning wrong. Each has the
same cry, “ Dieu et mon droit and “ Mine is to
revel and to rule,” and “ Mine is to rend and
destroy.” The hundred million workers, the
strength and the stay of humanity, look doubt-
fully at either camp. They put no trust in princes :
the royal league affords them no reasonable content.
They know that Kaiser or Czar would issue a
mandate, cruel as Herod’s, had they the same
reasonable hope of crushing the rising influence
that threatens to destroy them. Those who toil,
and spin, and labour for the uplifting of the world
must view with doubt all conspiracies, whether
hatched under the red cap or the crown.
The Hon. John Eales, M.L.C.
The subject of this sketch, the Hon. John Bales,
whose portrait will be quickly recognised by
people in all parts of the colonies, is one of the
solid men of what we call our Northern District.
He is a representative of a family who were the
pioneers of the Hunter, and is, at once the
largest landowner in that fertile valley and the
most popular proprietor. Almost every farmer
on Mr. Bales’ estate is prosperous, but in times
of distress, when successive floods wrought wide-
spread ruin, few men could have acted with more
liberality to his tenants. The hospitable owner of
Duckenfield is greatly averse to the mention of
these facts; but, being matters of common remark
concerning that gentleman and his estimable lady,
(From a photo. by Newman, Oxford-street.)
they rightly come within the scope of this brief
sketch. Mr. Bales was born at Duckenfield,
Hunter River, in 1831, and was educated in Syd-
ney under Mr. Cape, the history of whose talent
for tuition has been perpetuated in the written
biographies of almost all the leading men of New
South Wales. Mr. Bales having gone through his
course of studies, turned his attention to the
management of Duckenfield Estate, and its pre-
sent dimensions and value are a tribute to his
abilities. Mr. Bales’ father, a fine specimen of
the Australian settler, lived to a good old age, and
is dead but ten years. In 1861, Mr. Bales married
Miss Gain, daughter of Dr. Gain, of Sydney, by
whom he has five sons. He has frequently
been requisitioned to stand for Parliament, but
has at all times declined. He, however, last year,
consented to be nominated to the Upper House,
to which branch of the legislature he has brought
a large amount of sound practical experience.
Duckenfield, the residence of Mr. Bales, shown in
the engraving, is a splendid mansion, situate on
the banks of the Hunter, midway between Ray-
mond Terrace and Morpeth It stands on elevated
ground, and commands a very fine view of the
country. The edifice is a handsome, solid struc-
ture, and besides being in every sense a most
comfortable country residence, has the enjoyable
appurtenances of ball and billiard rooms, and a
magnificent conservatory. The premises are
lighted by gas. Duckenfield, it may here finally
be remarked, is a homestead well-known for the
excellence of its racing and other stock.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Minister and the Constable.
Ip everyone acquainted with public men had not long
ago taken Sir George Innes’b very short measure, all
would have it {now. Sir George himself has kindly
supplied the dimensions. He has had a passage of arms
with a constable, and the prize for discretion and
modesty has remained with the policeman. Let us
take Sir George Innes’s own story. He came to a
barricade, and very quietly asked where he could get
through. The constable replied that he couldn’t get
through at all. Sir George repeated his question*
adding that he wished to get to his office. The con
stable’s reply was that ho couldn’t get through there.
Then Sir George asked again, and thereupon the con-
stable retorted “in a very offensive manner,” ordering
Sir George to just take himself out of there; he had
been told three times, and he had best just be
Then, Sir George disclosed his identity and standing
to his subordinate, and intimated that had the
known lthat£ at first he would probably have spoken
differently, and that he need not be rude to anyone.
Now, this is Sir George’s own account, fairly stated;
and it is to be observed that, while he speaks of the
constable’s offensive manner, he gives no hint of what
his own deportment was on the occasion. Let us, how-
ever, regard the matter dispassionately. A constable
is stationed at a certain barricade, and is specially
instructed mot to allow anyone to pass. A person comes
up, and wants to pass. He is told that he may not do so
—and, as Sir George Innes has been particular to
mention when the constable was rude, it may be inferred
that at this stage of the affair Constable Maquis was
civil, as Sir George says nothing to the contrary.
Just so. A person is told ho can’t pass. He asks again,
and says he wants to go to his office. Now, obviously
the constable was stationed where he was for the express
purpose of preventing the passage of persons who wanted
to go to their offices and generally about their business.
Had Sir George Innes quietly explained at the
outset who he was, probably the constable would
have made an exception in his favour —although
by doing s Ihe would have been violating his duty.
But" Sir eorqe did not deign to explain. He
relied, it may conjectured, upon the dignity
of his appearance .to impress the constable with
a conviction that it was no ordinary person he had to
deal with. The constable's crime was that his percep-
tions were not equal to the occasion. He did not see
any “pints” about the Innes “frog more’n any
other frog.” And when the erdinary-looking individual
swelled and became overbearing, the constable naturally
thought of taking him to the lockup. It did not strike
a mere constable that a Minister of Justice would be
indulging in such puerile vanity as to act upon the
assumption that the dignity of his person equalled that
of his office. He is now, however, aware of all that, and
more. He is aware, also, that a Minister of Justice can
be so petty and malignant as to get a constable punished
for doing his simple duty. Sir George Innes may be
distinguished in Fiji. He may be clover in the
present Cabinet. But he should learn from this episode
that Providence has not been pleased to grant him an
exterior equal to the grandeur of his mind. When next,
therefore, he desires to obtain from the police privileges
denied to mbler mortals, he would do well to wear
upon his breast, after the manner o aboriginal kings, a
brass plate,[inscribed with his name, his station, and his
lineage.
Memento Mori.
However “ ridiculous matters relating to small-po
may have Been rendered by publicity,’’ in the opinion
of some of the members of the Medical Beard, every
care seems to have been taken by the responsible au-
thorities that; proceedings at ihe Quarantine Ground
should not be deprived of their solemn official cha-
racter by anything in the shape of unseemly levity.
There may have been a mild soup fon of the ridiculous
THE HON. JOHN EALES, M.L.C.


f$ GIFT WORTHY (
A VALUABLE PI
TO EVERY READER OF T
MADE BY THI
LONDON and PA
ELECTRO PLATE (
14 BRIDGE-STREET,
EVEYONE HIS, OR HER
by means of tl
lineagra;
THE MOST MARVELLOUS
THIS ELECTRIC
This Wonderful Instrument eE
your own Artist. Possessing only
you can copy it to
LIFE-SIZE,
either in Ink, Pencil, or Crayon.
GRAPH you can copy any Piet
independent of
PREVIOUS KNOW
in NINE different Styles.
ALL STYLE
of
PICTURES,
DRAWINGS,
ETCHINGS,
EMBROIDER’
PNGRAY
MAI
S
and
PATTERNS,
may be accurately copied and en
the use of this Instr
A PRACTICAL T]
POE ALL
TRADES, ARTISTS, i
AMD
AMUSEMENT FOR EV
THE ART CAN BE LEARI
PRINTED INBTRUC
IN
FIVE MINUT
The Simplicity of (he LINEAGRA
bended even by a c
NO PREVIOUS KNOWLEDGE
BEING REQUIR;
Each Instrument is accompanied
LINEAGRAPH at wort
printed instruotio
EVERY READER OP TH
can obtain an instrument by full
conditions:—
1. The annexed Voucher must ]
with 2a lOd in Post Office Order or
cost of patent, fees, carriage, and ci
2. Witho.’t the Voucher no Lir
warded under
One Found Stex
THE GENUINE Alt
HOP BIT
Manufactured by
HOP BITTERS MANUPAC
ROCHESTER, N.Y.
are a
MEDICINE, NOT
The above Company are well-ki
originators of t
HOP BITTERS
The great boat race rowed on the '
oessfully carried off
GALLANT LAYCOCK:, oi
HOP BUT
are the
PUEEST. BEST, AND CHEA
EVEE MADE
They are compound*
HOPS, BUCHU, MANDRA
AND DANDEL
The Oldest, Best, most Eenow
Medicines in the World, and in t
the best and most effective cur
all other Bitters, being the great
FLEE and life and health restori
EEMEMBEB THIS ! IP Y
HOF BITTE
will surely aid nature in makii
when all else fails.
If you are a frequenter or a
matic district, barricade your
scourge of all, countries —malaria
and intermittent fevers —by the
HOF BITTE
If you are costive or dyspepti
from any other of the nnmero
stomach or bowels, it is your 01
main ill, for HOP BITTEES
remedy in all such complaints.
If you are wasting away with c
disease, stop tempting Death
turn for a cure to HOP BITTE]
If you are sick with that terr
vousness, you will find a “ Balm
use of HOP BITTEES.
In sbort, they cure ALL diseai
Bowels, Blood, Liver, Nerves, Ki
JESOO
will be paid for a case they will i
for anything impure or injurious
That poor, bedridden, invalid v
or daughter, can be made the p:
a few bottles of Hop Bitters, cos
WILL U LET THEM
CLEANSE, UE AND ENJ
with
HOP BITT
and you will have no sickne:
Large square panelled amber oo
label with green Hop cluster on*
other.
Price ss. No other form, size,
American Hop Bitters Hfg. Co., Eo<
To be obtained at all Chemists an
MONTEFIOHE, STUi
65 PITT STEEET, SYDN
General Agents for At
P. GREGOI
TOBACCO MANUFAC
EICHMOND, VIEGINI
have appointed us 1
SOLE AGENT
for the Safe of their TOBACCO
We invite particular attei
NEW IMPOETATIONS, JU
of
SPECIALLY CHOICE SMOKI
bearing our Bran
44 OEIENT ** and “ SOUTH:
These TOBACCOS are made to out
from the
CHOICEST YIEGINL
and for deljoacy of flavour are
in the fact of quarantining a man for a cold ; and the
business-like stroke of capturing a victim gifted with
culinary abilities, and insisting on his cooking for a
ship s tenants in neck-shackles and leg-irons, may have
been just possibly dashed with a delicate flavour of
the absurd. Lest any one of an exceptionally mer-
curial temperament, however, should have been tempted
to view things in this light, every care seems to have
been taken to counteract such irregular hilarious in-
finances. It must have been by something little short
of departmental inspiration that such a useful agent
to this desirable end was devised, as that provided by
an unlimited supply of coffins. We have heard of
some jolly fellows who maintain themselves in a pro-
per frame of mind by a continual contemplation of a
grisly death’s-head surmounting cross-bones. Some
people have a lively turn for wandering round grave-
yards, and attending funerals, for the same purpose.
And we did read once of one exceedingly light and
airy individual who regularly treated himself to a view
of life and its responsibilities through the key-hole of
a family vault. But to surround oneself with an array
of coffins— this was a master-stroke of resource that
none of our acquaintances have yet soared up to.
Whoever suggested it to keep our quarantine patients
in check, deserves promotion. What better means
could have been devised to induce a due sense of their
position ? The very atmosphere seemed reeking with
coffins. They arrived in dozens. If anyone showed
signs of disease, he was promptly prescribed a coffin.
One victim asserts that he grew so accustomed to the
sight, that he had quite forg it ten their existence;
but ha must have been a callous individual at best. A
patient on the Faraway was provided with a coffin
three days before he expired—as a grim memento mori,
doubtless, to keep his spirits up. The return of so
many survivors must be a great disappointment to
somebody. Somebody's calculations are upset, evi-
dently. It’s too bad to have to pay for coffins and
damages, too.
Clerical Inconsistency.
To the mind of logical facility, lack of consistency is the
inevitable keynote of contempt. We cannot uphold,
we dare not applaud, that man who dares not speak as
he thinks, and will not act resolutely upon his fixed
convictions. The case of the Rev. Charles Strong is
directly sequent to this train of thought. Few
men upon general grounds have a deeper claim to the
regard of their fellows, while at the same time no
single one, perhaps, is so openly and reasonably the ob-
ject of the merited condemnation of hard reasoning men.
There can be no question that Mr. Strong, as a minister
of the Presbyterian Church, is broadly, yet childishly,
inconsistent. In accepting his gown, did he not also ac-
cept its responsibilities ? Having sworn to the teachings
of the Westminster confession how, without open renun-
ciation, can ho oast them aside ? How, while preaching
within the walls, and living upon the legitimate revenue,
and wearing;|the acknowledged garbj of the Church,
can he lay the vital teachings of the Church aside and
follow in doctrine a path of his own ? There is pain
and regret in dealing with the matter, but not the
slightest difficulty. The glaring inconsistency of Mr
Strong’s conduct stands out demanding condemnation
—scholarly eloquence and manly energy foil utterly
to condone it. The meanest Christadelphian,
or most emotional Spiritualist, is royal by com-
parison Nor is Mr. Strong alone in this respect.
There are too many within the Church, yet not
of the Church, false to their vows of ordination, yet
lacking the courage to openly renounce them. And,
moreover, there is a tendency abroad towards a general
inconsistency, towards a clipping and paring of time-
worn garments, and a trimming of doctrine to an
acceptable if not a reasonable shape. It is chiefly
manifest in the universal desire to be rid ofjall chance
Of perdition; and it is by no means a healthy sign this
haste to be rid of the Devil. There is not half so much
hurry to be rid of the harp and palm, and the glories
Of the New Jerusalem; and, moreover, his removal
leaves the very primal and foundational doctrine of
Christianity in an uneven and lop-sided condition. If
there, indeed, be no Hell, what need for the Atonement ?
Or if Hell be such a reasonably comfortable place, as
our most progressive divines would have us suppose,
what need for the mysterious subdivision and super-
lative agony of an Omnipotent God to free us from Its
pangs? The old ways were logical, if crude. These
new departures are inconsistent in themselves, and
tend to shatter the very bases of the belief they profess
to support.
An Incident of Holy War.
Mr. Copeland’s motion for opening the Art Gallery
and Museum on Sundays was lost by 26 votes to 23.
That is the simple fact—a very common-place fact—a
trivial incident of the Parliamentary strife, scarce
worthy of passing comment. So it seems upon the
surface; but, ah, how different when we get into the
the depths of it, and understand all the agonizing hopes
and fears that rested upon its issue 1 Do you know
that each of those adverse votes was bought with a
price—with agonies of supplication, with fervour, and
passion, and effusion of theological sweat—that over
the heads of those devoted six-and-t*venty had hung,
for many days, the vial of wrath and the crown of pro-
mise, and right before their noses had dangled that
omnipotent bribe, the assurance of churohly support
in the next appeal to the ballot-box ? Do you know
that pari-ons had thundered at the doors of their
hearts aid homos, that deacons had clung to their
button-holes, and the spirit of the churches had joined
with the spirit of the pots to exorcise this erring devil
who would rob them of their mutual gain ? You have
beard that the churchmen were jealous for the cause
of the Lord God of Sabaoth—were in dread lest the
whiff of lily and rose should prejudice the sense against
the theological odour of the evening admonition, or
that the memory of art and beauty gleaned in the open
gallery should mar the effect of the crude picture of
the New Jerusalem, or of the pit of Perdition, that had
heretofore satisfied. Possibly it may all have been
true—pure theological fervour and legislative earnest-
ness—but probably, ah 1 very probably, it may hav e
been the outcome of that root of all evil, the filthy
filthy lucre. It is unnecessary to beat back to the
cause: i very man will judge of it according to his
light—and this will see the cloven foot, and that the
guiding angel. Its results rre of closer import, and we
may indicate them witho t the gift of prophecy.
Honest intelligence will lau somewhat more bitterly
than of old, and ribald ignorance wili find the keynote
for a somewhat viler joke, and the churchwarden will
not carry a h-avier plate, but Hebe will have a fuller
till. But fix-and-twenty valiant soldiers of the Cross
and servants of the State will feel that their calling
and election is sure. And ascetic bigotry will chuckle.
while liberty looks down in silent wonder, or answers
with a pitying sigh. Yet courage, brothers, there
were three-and-twenty found who would not bow the
knee to that black frocked Baal, and, ere long, others
will be found to join them.
LATE THEATRICAL.
Fred Hiscocks, the vicissitudinona entrepreneur,
said when he went home that he would bring out
“ something," and of a surety he has kept his promise,
** * *
Mias Georgina Smithson has written us a letter
in which she complains of the treatment she has been
subjected to at the hands of the West Maitland ama-
teurs. It appears that her advertised dates were the
same as theirs, so one genius called upon her and told
her it would be madness for her to show against their
collection of wondrous histrionic talent. They also
forbade either of the bellmen to ring for her, and had
their bills posted over hers—in fact, behaved like—
well, gentlemen, generally. The worst of the matter is
that, so far as we can gather, Mr. Holloway Georgina
didn’t kick any of the soaring soft-goods clerks, and
“ paying tellers.” We advise him to get a pair of
heavily ironed bluchers, and perform without delay.
** * *
The Montague-Turner Opera Company are a
tremendous success at Maitland.
** * *
The American Circus —What is it? This we
queried when hearing of the show at Lithgow. We
have got the information now. The Walhalta Brothers
and Mr. Murton are the proprietors. The former will
be remembered by every antiquary from 6 to 12 years
of age, as the brothers who perform such wonderful
tricks with their hats. In fact, considering the busi-
ness created by juvenile imitators trying the Walhalla
biz, every hatter should roll up to the show. Mr.
Burton has a name historic in the paper-hoop and saw-
dust world. The circus opens on Saturday at the Hay-
market. Alley, — honp-la I
** * *
Quite a treat was afforded to a large audience
on Saturday afternoon in the production of Costa’s
“Eli,” by the Sydney Musical Union, at the Garden
Palace, ably conducted by Mr. Sydney Moss, L.C.M.
Exception can be taken to nothing but the piano,
which was quite unworthy of the concert, as its tink-
ling tones marred the effect of the other instruments.
The pianist, however, madejthe best of it. .Miss Annis
Montague sang exquisitely (when doesn’t she P), and
was fully appreciated. Mr. Turner’s best effort was in
“ Philistines hark!" which trying solo proved the
capabilities of his voice—in fact, he quite excelled him-
self. Miss St. Clair, too, was never heard to better
advantage than in the morning and evening prayers of
Samuel —her clear enunciation being not the least
charm of her singing. Mr. Bnsbelle, as Eli, and Mr,
Hollingdale as the Man of God, were quite equal to
their parts. The orchestra was good, being com-
prised of some of our best available performers—
professional as well as amateur. The oboe has a very
prominent part, and was excellently plaved by Mr.
Luttich. The bassoon also growled out effectively, and
Bomon, at the ’cello, was—well, Bomon. Mr, Banks
at the organ was quite np to the mark.
The Turners left on Saturday night for New-
castle, in which picturesque and enchanting city we
wish them all the success in the world. Mr. Wilson Le
Couteur has, we understand, “ quite cleaned out
the town " on the matter of subscriptions. Our par-
ticularly straight griffin has been taken with regard to
the prices, we see. It generally is taken, somehow.
** * *
J*The Mendelssohn Quintette Party are to arrive
per s.s. Zealandia about the 25th, and will shortlvafter-
wards open in Sydhey, thence tour the colonies. Report
speaks most highly of these performers. Mr. Macal-
lum pilots the quintette, and avers that each is a soloist
of the first rankj; the violinist equal to Wilhelmj,
the violincellist, another De Munck flautest a
a terror, who will set all the tootlers of Syd-
ney oft afresh, make life unendurable, empty the
instrument shops of every tube with six holes, and
cause a run on bamboo. The quintette bring with them
a lady vocalist, who is to rival Annis Montague. In
short, Mr. Macallum avers we are in for a furore, and
that foreseeing people should take time by the fore-
lock, and pawn their boots before the market is swamped
by people anxious to raise the price of admission.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-plume
cannot expect to have their communications noticed .]
Late Gas Consumer ” : Unsuitable. No joke
is apparent, and it may be malicious “ Ajax " (Bal-
mniu): Thanks. Don’t send us any more items about
hell though, or people will think Dr. Beg is on the
stuff of the paper “ W.W." (Darling Point):
We once knew a man who wrote the kind of stuff you
send us. He is now dead. And his end was aooom-
ilished with the aid of a friend and a sixpenny olothes-
iue ‘'Perambulator’’: You say your par is as
“ true as the Gospel of St. Luke.” We are not, dear
sir, a religious paper. If you give us any more of this
kind of thing (sentiment, we mean,) we shall feel it in-
cumbent upon .us to brain you with the Acts of the
Apostles. We can’t make head or tail of your commu-
nication. What is it P A prescription or a tract P
Bring round a barrow, and wheel it to the bill-sticker.
He might do what we decline—post it “E.8.T.”:
Not quite good enough. Write us some things in your
oimi style. In trying to imitate ours, you come to grief.
“Subscriber" (Clareyille): Received “Vortex":
Received; will be attended to next week “ Hon. Sec.
Kent C.C."; Match reports must be in on Tuesdays
“A.W.P.": Just a little too late for this week
“ J.M’G." : The verse is good up to within the last few
lines, which need “ doctoring.” Will lix them for next
issue “ M'Gavenism": We mean to spend a week in
trying to read your memo. Should we manage to de-
cipher it, we’ll tell the public what it’s all about
“ VffiYictis’’: It doesn’t very much matter what the
person referred to says or prints. The Qympie Mile-
sians are quite able to take their own part. As to the
Central Queensland paper named, it lives by stirring up
bad blood between the worshippers of different Mumbo-
Jumbos. Shall be glad to hear from you again
“Wire Nail” : If you wish a thing noticed by us, send
it to us, and not to another journal, in the first place
“Vulcan”: Minohing mallecho. Exposure would merely
give pain. Only friends of the family could effectively
intervene to save the youngest girl “Query":
Thanks. See a gas-fitter Something wrong with
your metre “ C.D.P.": Obliged for your good
wishes. Sorry we couldn’t use what you sent
“ Rusticus” : Always glad to hear from you. You need
not confine yourself to the “perfesh." “Jaokey”:
Yon ask us what we consider your stuff is worth a
column. We should say £2OO to any one that wanted
it. We don’t want it “R.S.”: More than capital.
Next week “Jupp” : Right you are “J. Moody" :
Returned Q.P.O. Glad to hear from you again “J.
W.T.” : What are you going to give us ? You can’t be
funny, dear boy, if it’s not there. Write an epic on a
lame cockchafer, and send it to the Herald “G.C.”:
Under the circumstances, we cannot allude to the
matter .“ Banking" (Singleton marriage) : We posi-
tively decline to insert social announcements unless our
informant sends his or her name, or we know the
circumstances “Nemo”: Much obliged. Some
of your items held over till next week
“Motus": Much obliged “Styx”: Good story
“A Constant Reader" : Received “Tom M.": You
are a girl who tries to disguise her hand, but the story
is good all the same “ Claud." : Not funny and not
of public interest “J. Q. B."; 1. You can’t
reasonably expect to receive your Bulletin until
the postal authorities have thoroughly sampled
il’ . e ihink, in the existing state of postal affairs,
that far from being entitled to complain at receiving
your paper three weeks after the day of publication, yon
are thundering lucky to get it at all. 2. Your joke
about arson and marrying the girl has been a circus
adage for the last two centuries “Veotis” (Goul-
bd™)-: Received. Tell us in your next if “ Fizgig ”
still Ungers “T. W, L.": Are yon sick? Write
another poem and— “Silver Pen"} Have attended
to your request. Glad to hear from you often. .


SOCIAL.
“ Atlas,” in the World, complains that at
Hurllngham, the great pigeon-shooting place near
London, and the afternoon rendezvous of the Hite,
you sometimes pay a £1 for a bottle of boiled cham-
pagne, a cold potato, and a tipsy waiter. Well, we
remember some months ago attending a fancy dress
ball, where we paid more money than a pound, and
only got the tipsy waiter.
* * •
The German residents of Christchurch, N.Z.,
celebrated the anniversary of Sedan with a ball.
» » •
The Hon. W. J. Clarke has gone home. So has
another Victorian millionaire, Sir Samuel Wilson. The
latter has leased Hughenden Manor, poor Dizzy’s pro-
perty ; but Mr. Clarke’s new ball-room at Sunbury
affords some slight guarantee that he doesn’t intend
renting Hawarden Castle from Mr. Gladstone.
• • •
He was a big man, with big expectations, and
an ornament of the block. His clothes ware the
admiration of the girls, and the envy of his friends.
The first of the month had come and gone, and so had
the tailor, many a time and oft, but still the little bill
remained standing. The knight of the shears protested
that he must have at least £lOO. *’ My dear fellow,”
responded the airy one, “I’d be delighted, but I haven’t
a cent in the world. It distresses me much to be
under an obligation to you. But I haven’t “ a red”
I’m stumped.” “ Well,” replied the Schneider, “ I
can’t see you up a tree. Here’s a blue-back to go on
with.” Tet the little bill was £560!
* * *
Some gentlemen wbo were engineering a half-
crown hop, at Maitland, recently, had to leave off
dancing in the middle of the evening to wash the dishes
for supper. Where were their sisters, and their cousins,
and their aunts ?
• * ♦
When a lady goes to a ball, and a “ horrid
newspaper man ” puts her name in The Bulletin, she
gets very indignant; but when her name is not put in,
you should see how mad she gets then 1
* m *
A very successful ball was given in the School
of Arts, Orange, on the 15th inst., as a return to the
members of the Ophir Lodge of Oddfellows, for the
hospitality displayed by them in June last. The room
was prettily decorated by the committee, who spared
no trouble in carrying out the arrangements. Most of
the ladies appeared in fancy costumes, whose beauty
enhanced that of the fair masqueraders, and a few
gentlemen followed the example of the weaker sex.
Those principally to the fore were:—“ A French Milk-
maid,” “ Gipsy Fortune Teller,” a distinguished-look-
ing “ Buy-a-Broom,” a graceful “ Duchess of Devon-
shire ” in a very becoming dress, “ Maritana,"
“ Vivandiere,” and “ Marguerite.” Amongst the
gentlemen were :—“ Frederick” (from the " Pirates”),
“A Nobleman of the time of Charles II," "Touch-
stone," a diminutive “ English Gentleman, 17th Cen.
tury," etc., while a popular medico looked well in his
appropriate dressjofjan “ Army Surgeon."
* * *
About the middle of this month a pleasant ball
took place at Rockhampton, in the Oddfellows Hall
there. The hosts were the officers and seamen of the
Melbourne S.S. Co.’s steamer Derwent, and the guests
were their friends in the town. Over sixty couples
were present. The hall was appropriately decorated
with the vessel’s flags and “ the merry maiden and the
tar ’’ footed it till the night had well-nigh waned.
• * *
To-day (Thursday) Mr. Boyd, the San Francisco
photographer, throws his rooms open to the public,
through which they may meander as long as they like,
Srovided they do not “ take ” anything. Mr. Boyd
oes all the " taking ” himself. By the way, Mr.
Boyd’s rooms, as also some other American establish-
ments, were closed on Wednesday, in consequence of
the President’s death.
* * •
When they wanted a lawn-tennis ground at
Brighton, Victoria, the funds were raised in one night,
by eleven gentlemen giving £lOO each. We believe the
liveliest lawn-tennis club here plays in a paddock, at
Toxteth, on sufferance, and that the game is often
adjourned for want of quorum. The players of the
game in Sydney are so enthusiastic, you know.
• • •
At a fashionable ball lately in Mackay (Q.), the
weather was insufferably hot and the hall crowded.
Creation’s lords stood it as long as they could, but
ageny overcame etiquette ; and after holding a council
of war, the ladies were petitioned to allow them to
dance without coats. Granted. By and by, it grew
hotter still, and a second concession was asked —to
dance without waistcoats. Granted also, and the ball
was finished in this very undress costume. It is said
the ball was attended by the Hite of the town. We
think it must have been There is only one point
upon which mystery still lingers. What did the ladies
take off?
* # #
The Masonic Ball at Parramatta caused quite a
sensation in that quiet suburb. The dresses were
really too good for the small hall available. A pub-
lie hall of respectable size is badly wanted. As usual,
last Friday, a great number went from Sydney. Spe-
cially picturesque were Miss Prescott, as “ Normandl,"
Miss Davies, as “ Maritana," and Miss Jennings, as
•* Gitana.” The programmes were very novel, being
in shape to fold like an envelope, but in design re-
presenting a masonic apron, in blue and gold.
* • •
The Hunter’s Hill Private Assembly dance was
held last Friday.
• * *
A splendid entertainment was given lately by a
squatter at Canning Downs, to inaugurate his new
homestead. Company came on Tuesday afternoon,
and that evening there was a supper and ball; Wed-
nesday a kangaroo hunt, over forty ladies and gentle-
men joining ; grand dinner and ball that night, and all
day Thursday to say farewell and return home. The
whole establishment is as magnificent as the liberality
of its owner.
* * »
It is a fact that at Gunning, recently, a man ad-
vertised for a wife and got fifty applications. Out of
these he made his selection, be it understood by letter
only; but when he wished to consummate his happi-
ness the lady of his choice declined to come to time,
and sent him word that if he was in a hurry she was
not, but that she had a sister who would have him.
Accordingly the sister was sent, and the happy pair
who now met for the first time were united in the
bonds of wedlock. The bride was evidently not with-
out her doubts on the matter, for shortly before the
knot was tied her future husband left her for a moment,
when she inquired anxiously of a young man stand-
ing near “ what sort of a chap " the bridegroom was.
♦ * #
The Melbourne Exhibition Commissioners, who
hand over the buildings and grounds at the end of the
month, proposed to hold a dinner and conversazione in
celebration of the event They issued 1000 invitations,
but as it was pointed out that they had no legal right
to spend public money thus, they, not caring to arrange
personally for the expenses, abandoned the idea.
* # *
On Friday, the Newtown Private Skating Rink
held its annual ball at Nithsdale Rooms, to close the
season. About a hundred were present, the rooms
were nice'y decorated, tbe German Band played, and
some [very pretty dresses were displayed. One of the
best was a magnificent white satin, sleeveless, with long
train. A pretty brunette wore a dress of old gold,
puffed at the shoulders, lower skirt to match, trimmed
with violets and gold wreath. Two sisters from Peter-
sham, well known at the rink, wore lavender covered
with lace. A tall dark lady wore a rich cream satin,
trimmed with other shades, and hand-painted most
tastefully with purple pansies and ferns. A rose-pink
and black lace costume was conspicuous, as was also a
married lady, in all cardinal. Two tall sisters, good
rinkers, danced as well as they could skate; one was in
a (short pink dress, the other in light blue satis and
lace, with a broad bandjof flame-coloured satin round
the skirt. A lady appeared in a pretty dress of ruby
satin, with paler skirt, trimmed with ivy leaves, and a
wreath of ivy; and another lady, from Glebe Point, was
all blue. A petite figure was clothed in dove-coloured
satin, and a visitor from Goalburn in (pink silk. The
owner of a sweet face, who was voted belle of Qlammis
Hall, a few evenings previously, appeared in a satin
combination of heliotrope and white, and a white
frosted wreath. The daughters of a George-street
bookseller looked well; one in a very pale blue trimmed
with silver, and the other, a tall blonde, in sky-blue
silk and cardinal, trimmed with silver lace. Two little
sisters from Bourbe-street, were respectively in pink
and white, faced with gold bands. Refreshments were
well provided by the City Catering Co. “Dear mamma"
was present, and smiled approval from all sides. One
gentleman’s dancing attracted more attention than
admiration 5 he did “ the step he taught himself,” and
which can be seen vigorously practised any night at
those aristocratic. Terpsichorean gatherings which are
distinguished by the announcement “ Admission, one
shilling." The ball terminated at half-past three, and
the promoters had reason to be satisfied at the result of
their efforts. The programmes were unusually tasteful
in design.
* * *
The Benedicts’ Ball, in the Town Hall vestibule,
on the 14th inst., was enjoyed by some two hundred
(mostly of the R.C. faith), including many members,
aldermen, doctors, lawyers, and prominent citizens.
A few timid ones thought the damp weather might
possibly cause some of the plaster to fall from the
ceiling, but the idea—like other things we know of—
had no good “foundations” to rest upon. On enter-
ing the ballroom, each lady was presented by the polite
secretaries with a handsome bouquet. The toilettes
were elegant, the prevailing colour being white or
cream . Cardinal trimmings were much used, and the
warmth of hne added lustre to the sci-e-o. Some of the
dresses were as follow:—A handsome white satin,
pearls round the neck, a band of same in the hair;
white silk, slashed with blue, and wreath to match;
black, set off with lace ; a married lady appeared almost
entirely in cardinal; a beautiful brunette wore a white
dress, and cardinal sash round the skirt; a young lady
looked charming in all white ; two sisters wore pretty
costumes of cardinal and white. Opinions were divided
as to the belle. The Crown-street brunette, the
Woollahra blonde, and the “ Marguerite,” of St. Vin-
cent's, might all put in a claim. The affair was very
agreeable, and the pretty vestibule is likely to become
a favourite resort on such occasions. The Naval
Brigade supplied the music, and Compagnoni the re-
freshments, satisfactorily.
•■ * *
A complimentary quadrille party will be given
to Mrs. Martin, of Pilt-street, on Wednesday, 28th
inst., by her pupils, who also intend making their guest
and instructor a presentation on the occasion.
• # •
There is to be a Benedicts’ Ball at Blayney on
Wednesday next.
# * *
The annual ball of the “permanent way’
branch of the Railway Department took place last
Monday, and the banquet and ball of the “ clerical"
branch comes off next Monday.
* « *
The Bachelors’ Ball at Bourke was well attended,
some guests travelling long distances to be at it. The
country up there is not thickly populated, and when
the people at Bourke go to a ball to dance, space is no
object. They are accustomed to plenty of room, and
they want it. It was enjoyable, however, and a few
falls did uot disceurage any one. The young squatters
can stand anything almost, except a “ fall ” in wool—
that hurts them. Besides, practice makes perfect,
and they fall much softer now than they used to.
Nearly one dress ont of every three worn by the ladies
was blue. This was because the ladies on the Darling
don't live in terraces and could not consult beforehand.
Each one who came in blue thought she would be the
only one, and fondly hoped to create a sensation. In
the metropolis, a lady will find out what her neighbour
is going to wear, or die; but this is more difficult when
people live a hundred miles apart. One aesthetic youth
had a never-to-be-forgotten struggle to get a “ No. 12 "
hand into a pair of “ No. 8 ” gloves. He was not used
to gloves, and his efforts were damaging to them
When, however, he did get his hands into as much of
them as still held together, he felt quite soothed, as a
local belle, waltzing by, kindly remarked to her partner
—“ He’s a nice young man for white gloves, he’s got a
'and on 'im like a fut."
# # #
“Ball at Brown’s Creek. —A ball was held on
Saturday last, at Brown’s Creek, in honour of the open-
ing of Wicker’s Assembly Room. The affair in point
attendance was a great success, although the gentlemen
exhibited too great a flow of animal spirits to suit the
nerves of the fair ones.” —Caecoar Classic.
Oh, tell us what they did, dear Mary:
Were there romps, and was there racing ?
And say was many a Carcoar fairy
In a corner caught embracing ?
Say, was there, dearest Mary, hugging P
Tell, was there, sweetest Polly, mugging P
And if all this, dear scribe, is true,
Just softly tell us— who kissed yon ?
# * #
The arrangements for the Exhibition of Wild
Flowers and Ferns at Manly on Satnaday, Ist October,
are very complete, and a fashionable gathering is ex-
pected. A concert in the Pavilion, in the evening, will
finish what promises to be a very enjoyable day.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Mr. W. F. Peterson, principal partner in the
Melbourne firms of Wm. Peterson & Co. and James F.
M’Keuzie & Co., has presented all persons in the em-
ployment of these two firms, numbering altogether
about 80, with a bonus for the year ending 30th June
last, equivalent to two months of their respective sala-
ries David England, a fisherman, with Henry Wil-
liams and Henry Wilcox, have been drowned by the
upsetting of a boat in Wide Bay The township on
the Burdekin is growing rapidly The Chinese are
working deep leads (cement) in the vicinity of the
Conglomerate, Palmer district. For some time they
averaged up to £lO per man weekly. The Chronicle
hopes soon to announce a payable lead, where deep
sinking will support a large population, and revive the
past glories of the once famous Palmer The other
day, near Finch’s Bay, Cooktowa, a party had an en-
counter with a black snake, lift long. They tried to
capture it, bnt unsuccessfully A reserve of 10 miles,
from the mouth of the Endeavour towards Cape Bed-
ford, has been gazetted to the Cooktown blacks, who
come down to the water’s edge and gesticulate fiercely
for “more beef.” The other day the Mayor, seeing
them at this game, went over and left some lollies “for
the picannies” in a hollow log. It is said that the
chief buck nigger ate all the candies and got sick
The Warwick local board burned in one day 11,000
kangaroo scalps, for which the paid £4OO Bolt, a
Wairarapa I N.Z) abourer, attempted suicide with an
axe. It did not come off A new paper under the
title of the Australasian Is announced as shortly to
appear in New York At Timaru (N.Z.) Thomas
Haworth drank two bowls oflraw spirits, and died from
the effects The remains of Dr. Campbell and
family, lost in the Tararua, were interred at Christ-
church, The procession was almost a mile long, and
included seventy carriages The proprietors of the
Christchurch Liberty have again been threatened, one
individual in another Province telegraphing that he
might be hourly expected A case in which great
interest has been taken, has been decided at Christ-
church (N.Z.) W, Weir sued Dr. M’Carthy for £2O,
costs and damages incurred through having to call in
a second medical practitioner to break and reset his
child’s leg, which Dr. McCarthy had first attended.
The Bench gave judgment for £5 ss. and costs
Marsden’s copper lode,Blayney,is pronounced by experts
to be one of the richest in the colony The Belfast
(Vie.) volunteers have been threatened by Colonel
Anderson with disbandment for careless inattention to
duties In the Darling district there are two runs
which each pass over half a million sheep through the
shearers' hands annually Alfred Craoknell. a boy
larrikin at Auckland (N.Z.), attempted to oraok his
mother’s head with a poker.
LATE SPORTING.
Mr. Mayo’s racehorses were sold yesterday on
the Maitland coarse. Hesperian brought 800 guineas ;
Gem, 700; Secundus, 300. Mr. Robords was the
buyer,
Laycock v. Rush, over the champion course,
yesterday, for £lOO, resulted in a verdict for Laycock.
The same old thing. A good race for a mile, and a kind
of procession afterwards. Rush did his level best, hut
Laycock had lots in hand, and won by as much as he
liked. Time, 25min 19sec. Wind and tide against the
scullers; water rough.
Northern Jockey Club Spring Meeting.—Re-
sults; First day—Plying Handicap: Dagmar 1, Verdict
2, Julian 3. Two-Year Old Stakes : Piracy I, Brenda 2,
GladiatorS. Northern; J. C. Handicap : Gipsey Cooper
1, Hawthorndeu 2, Bulgaria 3. Prince of Wales Stakes :
Little Null 1, Rocket 2. Epsom Handicap : Queens-
berry 1, Whirlwind 2, Beatrice 3.
At the Hippodrome on Monday evening, the
Seven-mile Walking Handicap was won by J. Frank, G.
Lindsay second, and S. Lewis taird. The One Hour
Go-as-you-please was run in two heats, the perform-
ances being : Is t heat, Miller, 8 miles, 4 laps; Ryan,
8 miles, 3 laps: Bishop, 7 miles, 11 laps. 2nd heat,
Cleary, 8 miles, 9 laps ; Parker, 8 miles, 8 laps; Chris-
tian, 8 miles, 7 laps.
J. C. Williams, the long-distance walker,appears
to be greatly dissatisfied with the treatment received
by him at the hands of the managers of th e recent
go-as-you-please. He has written us saying he did not
get the fourth prize, as has been stated by one of the
papers. All he received was £3. He says that his dis-
qualification in the seven-mile walk was unfair, and
hopes that, as he has lost everything, seme one will
help him in getting up a benefit.
The race for =2lOO aside over the champion
course, on the Parramatta River, between Rush and
Pearce, on Monday, resulted in an easy victory for
Rush, in 23 min. 26 sec. Pearce got a slight lead at
the start, but at ihe half-mile Rush led his opponent
and increased his lead throughout, except at the
finish, when he slackened off, and allowed Pearce to
decrease the gap t> a length. Rush looked the pink
of condition, but Pearce was greatly on the bulky side,
and was generally voted out of condition. He rowed a
game race.
Maitland Races—Second day. Good attendance-
Maitland Handicap, one mile: Gipsy Cooper 1, Queens-
bury 2, Hypatia 3 ; winner started favourite. N ursery
Handicap, five furlongs : Piracy 1, Gladiator 2, Brenda
3; grand finish. Duckenfleld Park Stakes, 1 mile 3
furlongs : Gipsy Cooper 1, Comet 2, Valentine 3; good
finish, Cooper, against whom 5 to 4 was laid at starting,
winning by a length ; nine started. Novel Race, 1
mile: Little Nell 1, Stanley 2, Silent 3; exciting finish,
all the horses being together. Forced Handicap:
li mile; Hypatia and Queensberry ran a dead heat.
Verdict 3; time, 2 min. 16 2-10 sec.; in the run-off,
Queensberry beat Hypatia by half a length, in 2 min,
19 sec E E Jones won £6OOO with Trump Yoss for
himself and Mr. Long.
The annual meeting of the Warwick Cricket
Club was held on the 14th September. During the past
season the first eleven played 11 matches, of which 4
were won, 2 lost, and 5 drawn. The second eleven
played 20 matches, of which 6 were won, 7 lost, and 7
drawn. Mr. O. Hiddilston gained the trophy for bat-
ting, with an average of 21.5 runs per innings. Mr. E.
Gregory won the trophy presented by Mr. J. Kellick
for highest single innings score with 87 to his credit.
Mr. D. Ogilvy won the trophy for bowling average
with 7.10 runs per wicket, which seems to be the best
bowling average obtained among the senior clubs dur-
ing the past season. In the second eleven, both the
batting and bowling trophies were secured by Mr. J.
Austin. The debt of £35 had been reduced to £l4.
Following are the office-bearers elected : —President,
G. H. Reid, M.L.A.; vice-presidents, J. Gardyne, A.
L. Park; treasurer, J. Kellick; secretary, J. Rigg;
assistant secretory, H. Noble; committee, Messrs.
Hiddilston, Oatley, Clarke, Walford, Ogilvy, Cleland,
Austin, Noble, M’Donald, and Hinchy; selection corn-
first eleven, J. Oatley, H. Hiddilston, J. Bigg; second
eleven, J. Austin, J. Banger, H. Noble ; delegate, H.
Hiddilston.
The annual meeting of the Albert Cricket Club
was held on Thursday last. During the past season,
the Ist eleven played 9 matches, winning 5, the other 4
being drawn. Massie won the club's trophy with the
splendid average of 50 runs per innings, and also Mr.
Lord’s trophy for the highest aggregate score, he
having made 455 runs in nine innings. This is a grand
performance, and stamps our friend as one of the
greatest batsmen in the world. Arthur and Dave
Gregory made fine averages, 47 and 31 respectively.
A. W. Crane secured the trophy for the best bowling,
with an average of 12 runs per wicket. Mr. Calvert’s
trophy for best bowler in the Ist eleven was awarded to
Mr. Docker. Mr. Adams’ prizes for best fieldsmen
were awarded to Messrs. Massie and V. Cohen. Gil.
Murdoch won the trophies for bowling and batting in
the 2nd eleven. The balance in hand was £35. Follow-
ing are the office-bearers for the season: —President,
R. Jones; Vice-Presidents, J. J. Calvert, F. M.
Dangar, F. Adams, W. Goddard; Treasurer, H. H.
Massie; Secretary, W. L. Docker; Committee, C.
Anderson, L. G. Bennett, J. Beveridge, W. W. Berk-
myre, V. Cohen, T. J. Dickson, D. Gregory, H. Moses,
G. Murdoch, J. Tooher; delegate, H. H. Massie.
Following are the results of the various events
of the King’s School Athletic Club Meeting, at Parra-
matta, on Saturday :—lOO Yards Flnt Race: E. C. Cox, 1;
Q. D. Eyrie, 2 3uo Yards Handicap; A. E. York,
scratch, 1; A. Q. White, 5 yards, 2. Half-Mile Handi-
cap: H. M. Osborne, scratch, 1; Q. D. Eyrie, scratch,
2. 440 Yards Flat Race: J. Parker, 1; B. E. Riley, 2.
220 Yards Flat Race, boys under 16: E. H. Lee, 1; G.
M. Innes, 2. 150 Yards, boys under 14: W. Wade, 1;
A. Wilkinson, 2. One Mile Walking Handicap :J. C.
Gilmore, scratch, 1; A Cousins, 70 yards, 2. 120
Yards, boys under 13: A White, 1: W. H. Nash, 2.
220 Yards Flat Race, ex-students: P. L. King, 6 yards,
1; E. B. Hill, 8 yards, 2. One Mile Handicap: Q. D.
Eyrie, scratch, 1; R. H. Bode, 100 yards, 2. 300 Yards
Handicap, boys under 5 foot: H. B. Cox, scratch, 1;
W. H. Nash, 15 yards, 2. 220 Yards Handicap: C. M.
Readford, scratch, 1; E. E. Cox, 4 yards, 2. 220 Yards
Handicap: H. Fligg, 15 yar»s, 1; Phillips, 6 yards, 2;
F. L. King, 10 yards, 3. 120 Yards, boys under 18: E.
E. Riley. 1; C. M. Readford, 2. 200 Yards, boys under
15: V. W. White, 1; J. H. Bettington, 2. Quarter-
Mile Handicap :Q. D. Eyrie, Byards, 1; H. M. Osborne,
8 yards, 2. Handicap Hurdle Race, 120 yards: E. E.
Riley, 10 yards, I; Q, D. Eyrie, 6 yards, 2. 120 Yards
Consolation Stakes, for losers only; Bayliss, 1; Child, 2.
The annual meeting of the Carlton Cricket Club
was held on the 11th inst. During the past season the
first eleven played 17 matches, of which 9 were won, 4
lost, and 4 drawn ; the second eleven played 18 matches,
winning 10 and losing 8. In the first eleven, J. Davis
won the batting trophy with the splendid average of
28 2-11 runs per innings, and also the trophy presented
by Alderman John Young for the highest single innings
with the score of 78. It will be worthy of notice that
this promising player, who has done such good things
in the past season, was not mentioned in the selection
practices for the Intercolonial Elevens. It is to be
hoped, if he keep up his form, he will not be overlooked
this season. Alf. Geary takes the trophy for bowling
average with 8 3-7 runs per wicket. Stuart Wearne
comes close to him with 8 16-17. In the second eleven
E. J. Briscoe secured both batting and bowling trophies
with averages of 15 and 7 21-24 respectively. He also
won Mr. I. Q. Levy’s trophy for highest single score in
the second eleven with a score of 4t, and Mr. A.
Magovney’s trophy for highest hatting average in the
second eleven. Mr. C. Bonnerman was presented with
a cheque for £25 for his services as professional daring
the past season. Following are the office-bearers for
coming season :—President, H. P. Hook; vice-presi-
dents, S. Cohen, T. C. Hinchcliffe, T.Nunn, T. Norton;
secretary, Charles W. Beal; treasurer, E. C. Weller;
committee, E. Usher, J. Porfus, W. S. Wearne, E. J.
Briscoe, J. H. Clayton, J. Urquhart, A. Magovney ;
selection committee, T. Nunn, C. W. Beal, W. S.
Wearne, A. Magovney, J. Portus; delegates, C. W.
Beal and E. C. Weller.
Sydney T.C. meeting, at Randwick, on Saturday,
was not well attended. The Governor and party were
present. The racing was very good—the finish for the
Flying Handicap being one of the best ever seen on
the course Pluto won the Hurdle Race easily, though
Wrangler had a great say until he came down. Sam.
Harding, his rider, was severely injured. Dundreary
was made a great pot for the Plying Handicap, but was
never in it. A great race took place between Waxworks
and The Exeter, and not a length behind came four or
five horses disputing for third place. The Sapling
Stakes was a boil over—Modesty having been made a
great favourite, and though she made n big ru-,h at the
finish, she succeeded only in reaching the -irths of
Sir Oliver. Modesty had a very bad start.
West Country Dick appropriated the Selling Plate
easily; and the Steeplechase was a great race,
fortunately, without accidents, between Lucy. Hanger,
and Jupiter. Lucy made a splendid effort, but tired in
the last quarter of a mile. Ranger made a ). r< at rush,
but could not succeed in catching old Jupiter. Guinea,
cleverly ridden by Hales, won the September Handicap,
and Saunterer ran well for second place. Following
are the results :—Hurdle Race, 2 miles and i. furlong :
Pluto 1, Safeguard 2, Radical 3; time, 4 min 22 sec.
Flying Handicap, six furlongs: Waxworks , The
Exeter 2, Bandalbion 3; time, 1 min. 18 sec Sapling
Stakes, half-mile: Sir Oliver 1, Modesty 2, Ascot 3;
time, 52 8-10 sec. Selling Race, seven furlong-: West
Country Dick 1, Doctor 2. Boniface 3; tiro", 1 min.
32 8-10 sec. Steeplechase: Jupiter 1, Ranger 2, Lucy 3.
September Handicap, 1J mile: Guinea 1, Saunterer 2,
Dundreary 3; time, 2 min. 15 7-10 sec.
Mr. John Mayo has asked'the Victorian Racing
Club to suspend action until they shall have heard his
defence Pyrmont annual regatta on Boxing Day
St. Leonard’s Swimming Club open the seas n on Ist
October A4B hours’ go-as-you-please, for £5O a side,
between Edwards and Swan, is to be contes- 1 cd at the
Hippodrome on Oct. 6 and 7 The Victorian Cricket
Association fix the dates of the International match
for December 24, 26, and 27 ; the return match on
February 10, 11, and 13. They have decided to play
only one match with Sonth Australia, the latter to have
the choice of colony The Duchess, who is now first
favourite for the Melbourne Cup, is by Manuka from
Princess. She did a fine gallop on Friday morning at
St. Alban’s. She has been hacked for £40,000 At a
meeting of the Queensland Cricket Association it was
resolved to endeavour to obtain promises for
raising £lOO, and if successful an offer wmuld
be made to Mr. Conway of a lump sura of
£350 for the visit of the All England Eleven
Mr. John Mayo has scratched all his h< rs ;s for
all their engagements at the Northern Jockev Club
meeting The final hi at of the Sydney Homing
Pigeon Society’s matches, came off on Saturib y, from
Qonlbum, and resulted in a dead heat between Mr S.
Hordern’s and Mr. W. McMillan, junior’s birds, who
homed in 173 minutes. At the fly-off, Mr. M< Millan’s
bird won easily Maryborough Rowing Clu l > Regatta.
Results.—Four-oared Challenge Race, M. B. C.: W.
Poulter, C. F Barton, Jas. Bartholomew, A Poulter,
(stroke), 1. Junior Fours : C. Betimes, W. B Jones,
E. G. Booker, G. C. D. Forster, (stroke) 1 Senior
Fours : J. Scott, T. Miller, B. Bartholomew, A. Wil-
mott, r(stroke), 1. Flat-bottomed Outrigger Race:
“ Derwent," 0. F. Barton, 1 A horse race took
place lately between Mountaineer and Vandyke, resn't-
ing in a victory for the latter The first series of
pigeon matches under the auspices of the Fitzroy
Gun Club, Rockhampton, took place on Saturday last.
Mr. Cowley won the first and second sweep, and Mr.
Summer, the third.
TICKS OF THE TELEGRAPH.
Sir Chaa. Gavan Daffy has relinquished his iu-
tention of entering Parliament Indecisive fighting
between Arabs and French at Zaghovan, Tunis
Liverpool cotton spinners have stopped their mills in
order to break the ring of brokers Cheriff Pasha
has formed a new Egyptian ministry Arabs have
cut aqueduct which supplied Tunis with water SCOO
Turkish troops landed at Tripoli New Orleans cot-
ton strikers rioting Foreign Consuls demand mili-
tary protection for shipping Khedive has ordered
abolition of slavery in Egypt Forest fires near
Toronto, Canada, continue. A million dollars worth <■ £
timber destroyed Russian Government inquiring
how to restrain the drinking habits of the people
Rinderpest in Italy A million tons American wheat
available for export Russian and German official
journals refer to the meeting of the Emperor* ns a
pledge of the peace of Europe General Airy dead,
78 All the ceded teritory has been transfer! d to
Greece Irish Land League Convention, 1200 dele-
gates, opened at Dublin. Parnell denounces the
Land Act as inadequate to redress grievam es
More Socialists expelled from Berlin Bad accounts
of French vintage French cavalry in Tunis strong y
reinforced Serious riots in Dublin. A coiiMab’e
killed English cricketers started for Anstr lia ..
Anglo-French Commercial Treaty prolonged for 'lino
months Bey of Tunis wants to resign Irisfi Land
League determined to oppose Land Act until prisoners
under Bill are liberated Irish Ns lonal
Convention favours protection to native industry
Rumoured battle between Abdul Rabmau and Ayouh
Khan. Result unknown The Powers have recom-
menced pressing reforms in Armenia.
BRIEF MENTION.
“ Shove her under the form!”
Six water grog.—Sydney Punch .
Very latest.—Hobart hospital authorities
turned body snatchers. Fact.
A N.Z. clergyman was looked up for drunken-
ness at Ballarat, the other day.
The Macleay Heeald of [3rd inst. has a
leader *f 200 lines. Is this Deasent ?
Hudson Bros, strikers have struck. And yet
their employers complain. Odd, this.
The difference between tramways and street
railways is a question of moke versus coke.
Two Mudgee tin-kettlers have been arrested
and remanded, pending the capture of “ the other
fellows."
The hen. secretary of the Owl Club is advertised
as ** The Lyre." And yet we believe that he is not on
the daiiy evening press 1
Anyone who takes an interest in ringbarking
can see some most artistic specimens of it just in iront
of the Homebush platform.
On the third day succeeding his capture, the
Melbourne cabman was not only found to bo Agar, but
fright had made him Agarred.
The town clock at Orange cost the Government
£205 ; and yet the wives complain their husbands are
never punctual when they promise to be home at “10
■harp."
A very well-known old gentleman at Ashfield
got vaccinated from the arm of his governess, a pretty
girl. He was in bed for six weeks, hut is now able to
walk with one crutch.
The Caiens Adveetisbe announces the death
of a local resident, Mrs. , whose decease «as not
unexpected, since she had been“aleing’’ for some time.
On the beer in life; on the bier in death. Peace ue to
her manes 1
At Bourke, the bullock-drivers style themselves
•* ox-conductors, and professors of oxology." Progres-
sive developement I At one time they were designated
H bullook-punchers,” and ** pot-jostlers." Drivers of
Two Arrows.
Sydney.
P. E. QUINN.
A bird of morning wings
Its way to happy skies,
And, sweetly trilli g, sings
An ait of Paradise.
An arrow from below,
Is swift and silent sent.
It wreaks its work of woe—
The skylark's song is spent.
A youth from home doth go,
With carol blithe and gay;
A shaft from Cupid’s bow,
Quells lightsomeness and lay.
And thus, by arrows twain.
The bird and youth are bled ;
The young man’s heart is slain.
The singing bird is dead.


horse _ teams, in these {esthetic days, are dubbed
“ carrion-choppers,” and "carrion-slashers."
The Rev. James Cosh made a very rapid des-
cent from the back of his chestnut pony on Monday.
Ho was not hurt, but the spill will possibly make him
more “ Coshus ” in future.
Thus the Dttbbo Dispatch : —“ A two-headed
calf is on view at Mudgee. Such a sight ought not to
be a novelty there. Did not they choose a three-
headed calf at the last general election ?’’
The Jews choose the Western side of Queen-
street, Brisbane, for their evening promenades. The
cause being that the property on the Eastern side is
mostly owned by them. They like to look at it.
The Newcastle Herald is publishing a trans-
lation of Erckmann Chatrian’s "Juif Polonais” under
the title of “The Polish Jew” without the author’s
name.,",Alfred, Alfred I such is the force of example I
“■ The Czar has appointed a commission to inquire
how best to restrain the drinking habits of the people.
Probably he will place their eating habits under re-
straint next. Look at the margin for extra taxation it
would create.
At Redfern Railway Station can be seen, in
letters a foot long, the announcement “Parcel’s Office.”
If Mr. Goodchap will send a clerk, who isn’t deaf, down
to our office, we will endeavour to explain where the
apostrophe should be.
At Clare, S.A., there is an “ anti-shouting
association’.’ The offices of president, vice-president,
secretary, treasurer, and committee are filled by one
man, who is the sole member of the association. At
all meetings the resolutions have been carried unani-
mously.
1 A recent edition of a paper up Cobar way con-
tained 300 lines of reading matter. Vive la presse Colo-
nials I That journal should keep this notice standing
in pica italic: “In consequence of the pressure on our
advertising! space, we are compelled to hold over—
everything.”
The public dancing-hells of the Far North are
pretty nearly as bad as those of Sydney are or were.
Of course, everyone knows what we mean when we say
this. On the Wild Elver some men, when they want to
get drunk cheaply, let their wives dance in the casino
and take the drinks themselves.
School-teachers in a certain Northern district
complain that their monthly pay is generally a fort-
night, sometimes three weeks, in arrear. The man
who certifies that they have been actually employed
(as if he had seen them at work) has never been in the
district, and lives 200 miles away.
Kls itlany wonder that our lunatic asylums are (
crowded with madmen ? A woman who kept a shanty
near the Northern railway extension boasts that on one
Sundaylmorning she served 40 nobblers out of the drip
tub. A] habitus ot the place also boosts that before
dinner on a Sunday morning he swallowed 38 glasses of
rum'hot.
■ From the Lithqow (N.S.W.) Mercury :
“ Challenge—l George Penman, Champion Porridge
Eater, do hereby challenge anyone in the Lithgow
district to eat porridge, for the sum of £2O or £5O
a-side; Jock Cain, Ironworks, preferred. Man and
money at the Club House Hotel at any time.” Where’s
Bibby now P
E|The Central Australian is about to be en-
rged. There has been a run on it since the editor
wrote that he was ugly enough to frighten an emu.
The Bar won paper and the Cobar thunderer are jealous
of their contemporary’s success, so both are busy turn-
ing over in their minds what they are ugly enough to
frighten.
A wave of the “ sensational” advertisement
mania appears to have settled on the shores of Hunter-
street on Saturday last, and amongst the wreckage we
find the following:—“Wanted, a thoroughly respect-
able single room, for young lady from country. State
terms, W.S.G., G.P.0." Lot us hope the lady was as
thoroughly respectable and as thoroughly single as the
room she so much longed for.
J. B. Gough, the temperance orator, tells a tale
of how a man in 1840 was a drunken fiddler in Win-
consin, and in 1818 was President of the U.S.—all
through taking the pledge. Well, a certain well-known
Sydney J.P. read this anecdote, and, thinking to have a
dive for grandeur, took the pledge, too. And yet, sad to
state, though four or five years have elapsed, that
Sydney magistrate is not even president of a tan-yard.
Parliamentary reports are not altogether devoid
ot interest. The S. M. Herald of Saturday reports Dr.
Tarrant as saying “ho should reserve to himself the
right to propose certain amendments in committee, and
if they were not agreed to he would vote against the
second reading of the bill." The Herald must be con-
gratulated on having on its stall one scribe at least who
is capable of making another man perform an impos-
sibility.
Another man, in Newcastle, has blown his
brains out with a revolver. No wonder. Continual
contemplation of Hunter-street, and perpetual inhal-
rec of coal dust, make life not worth living. We
ngommeud any one suffering from an incurable disease
yet tenacious of life, to go up into the reading-room of
the Newcastle School of Arts, and gaze first round the
room, and then out of the window upon the prospect.
He will no longer wish to live.
Dr. Joseph Beattie, now in charge of the Quaran-
tine Ground, is a medico of peculiar ideas. He permits
convalescent patients to wear boots, and insists on
their being provided with decent food. He also allows
them bedding, and does not prohibit social pleasantries
being indulged in. What does all this mean? These
new-fangled ideas are perfectly ridiculous.
It now appears that the Marist Brother, who
was also the Lady Mayoress’ brother, and who had the
small-pox, is not in any way related to the worthy lady
mentioned, and never had any complaint more fashion-
able than a cold or so “id is doze.” Truly, this is a
Jesuitical trifling with our most sacred feelings. Be-
sides, what right have people to contradict what is
publicly stated in the Only Nooze ? “By the mass,
this is flat burglary as ever was committed."
The Brisbane Courier recently re-published
a Government paper, being an analysis of drinks and
food supplied in Brisbane. Whisky and soda-water
were the only two things found to be unadulterated.
The mixture has become a general favourite, and as
sarsaparilla turned out to be a complete fraud, large
secessions from the temperance lodges are hourly ex-
Eocted. Whisky and soda-water, adulterated or not,
as gained an enviable notoriety for the present.
In the Newcastle paper they still keep up that
dreary business, Cave Adullum, even now Lord Bea-
consfleld is dead. “Montague Rowton, Esq.” (who
ever he is) is supposed to be the writer, and this is the
ineffable bosh he perpetrates:—"Oh, I forgot to re-
mind you that I promised Ealakua, the King of the
Sandwich Islands, who was at the Colonial Banquet,
that he is not to be confounded with Hokey Pokey
Wankey Warn, the King of the Cannibal Islands.” Oh,
dear I
The Echo finds fault with colonial youths for
not knowing how to swear properly. Why doesn’t the
Echo show them how ? The fact that the cornstalk
so often uses in his conversation a word which the Echo
boldly prints, but which we, with our usual delicacy,
prefer to allude to as the synonym for “ sanguinary,”
is entirely owing to the defectiveness of the corn-
stalk’s education. It takes a really well-educated man
to swear scientifically. It’s only the vulgar churl who
harps on one cuss word.
The N.Z. Government have been authorised to
ask the Sydney authorities for particulars as to the num-
ber of persons attacked by small-pox within the last 12
months, distinguishing between those persons who have
been successfully vaccinated, those unsuccessfully
vaccinated, and those who have never been vaccinated ;
also the mortality in each class. —This is not the point.
What’s wanted is a return of those sent to quarantine,
those who feared they, would be sent to quarantine, and
those not sent to quarantine.
A J erilderie correspondent to a country paper
writes:—“Our town is daily increasing in size, we
have In course of erection two new stores, a Mechanics’
Institute, and a Catholic church. The last two are
especially needed. The Protestant denominations, I
hear, contemplate the erection of a Union one.”
Directly this appeared in print, two circuses, a ven-
triloquist, a variety troupe, lour Punch-and-Judys,
and a temperance lecturer, immediately started for the
spot. The stilts and the performing dogs are also on
the qui vive.
A correspondent, from Herberton (N.Q.), writes
to us stating that the police having proved themselves
powerless to stop larrikinism in the township on Sun-
days, a lady resident has taken the matter in hand, and
Satrols the principal street on the Sabbath day with
istinguished success. Her arguments appear to carry
great weight. They consist of a stick in one hand, and
a “rock" in the other. We think our Government
ought to subsidise this good lady, and put her on duty
in Oxford-street on Sunday nights. Now, Edmund,
take our straight griffin.
A “country chap” sent a Southern “paper
man” a couple of “ high” wallabies as a bribe to secure
the insertion of an anonymous letter containing a
“ nasty jar ”on a “ friend.” The “ animiles " were too
“ high" for anything but the roots of fruit-trees, so
the paper-man soliloquised thus: —“ I am honest
enough to admit (to myself only) that I am open to
bribery—but, oh ! I draw the line at corruption. Here,
devil, take this round with my compliments to the
editor of the Selectors' Everlasting Howl and tell
him it must have come here in error."
The way to manage when one runs a boiling-
down perfumery,andithe Inspector of Nuisances “pulls"
one for making the neighbourhood almost unin-
habitable, is to work up a public meeting with all one’s
journeyman perfumers in the body of the hall to howl
down opposition, and filled up with respectable trades-
men one does business with, and master butchers
holding representative positions. Then move resolu-
tions that there is no smell at all, and that if there is,
cotton wool is cheap. Then embody the resolution in
a petition, and head it j We, the people of—Skuthorpe.
“ My dear,” said, last Thursday, the wife of a
well-known and remarkably geod-l’ooking legislator to
her lord and master, “ I wish you would spealc to Sarah:
she has been giving me more impudence than I ever
experienced from a servant before." At that moment
the rebellious handmaid—(a remarkably plump and
pretty girl) chanced to enter the room. “ Sarah, I
wish—began the master, when, the girl, twisting a mas-
sive (and new) gold ring round her finger, said—“ Well,
what have you got to say ? " He cleared his throat;
looked first at his wife, then at the servant—and slunk
out.
More misery. A gentleman who signs himself
“ The Sweet Singer of Sussex Street" modestly re-
quests us to insert about 4 pages of an ” Ode to My
Lov’d One’s Eyes " but owing to the present unsettled
state of the weather we mnst decline to receive poetic
“ copy ” from the sylvan bowers of Sussex-street,
unless it has first been thoroughly fumigated. For the
benefit of “ Sweet Singers ” in general we may observe
just here that the proper way to fumigate this rubb—
at least their reverie —is to grab the said reverie with a
pair of tongs, and hold it in the centre of a forge fire
for half a day. After this, the bard can send us over the
tongs, as we can use them—on the heads of poets.
“ Ironbark ” has written a book called “ Old
Friends under New Auspices." The contents were not
old friends to us, as we had never seen them before ;
but now we have read the work, they are not only old
friends, but cherished ones. Here, now, is a bit about
Moses :—“ When we say Pharaoh,|we feel confident
that we have made things quite plain, because as
there wer’n’t more than four or five hundred of them,
nobody is likely to make mistakes as to who (sic.) we
are talking about.". When the humour’s there, it
don’t much matter about the grammar. “ Ironbark ’*
is good in Barcoo ballads, but he’s not a success among
the ancient Egyptians and the highly moral kings of
Israel.
Apropos of nothing, how is it that many— in
fact, the majority of our metropolitan clergymen—have
now decided that it is better for their churches to do
without money than to obtain it by means of the usual
“ down the harbour ” pic-nios ? We don’t know, of
course. We never go to org— or rather, we mean to say,
we never go to temperance lodge excursions. As the
Eoet says, “There was a time when we clutched the
iggest end of the log and did all the lifting, but we
have been carefully shown the error of our wicked
ways, and we therefore now select the littlest end and
do all the grunting.”
A gentleman who signs “ J. W. T.,” and who is
so funny that he must at one period of his existence
have slept near a circus clown, sends us some “ original
poetry.” He evidently hails from Double Bay, for his
verse is about a cricket match held in that locality.
Ho grunts :
“ Oh beauteous scene at Double Bay
Where females dressed in colours gay
Come at all times throughout the day
In van and buggy, on foot and by shay."
Watching the young men playing at Cricket,
Whose president is Mr. Alderman Trickett.”
We get a good deal of this kind of “ poetry ” in the
course of the week, and it always embellishes the same
spot—the d us thole.
At Cobar, the other day, prior to the hearing of
an affiliation case, Mr. Hibale (one of Sir H. Parkes’s
new Justices) was requested by Mr. Hogan, a lawyer,
to leave the bench. He said his client had “ heard
certain rumours which led her to believe that Mr. Hibble
will act prejudicially to her interests. I would, there-
fore, suggest that Mr. Hibble do not sit to hear this
case." Mr. Hibble Implied that when the time came
that he could be charged with or suspected of doing
other than his strict duty, he would “permanently, not
temporarily, leave the bench.” Good for you, Hibble,
old boy. We know a few score of Sydney justices who
wouldn't be game to say as much —or, rather, we mean,
to act upon it. We except, of course, all Town Hall
contractors.
On the Ist inst, Jones, of the Lands’ Depart-
ment, applied for an hour’s leave of absence to enable
him to thoroughly bury his mother-in-law. The
Minister, however, at once refused to grant the applica-
tion, and was horror-stricken to think that any clerk
should request a moment's leave while there was such a
fearful rush of official business on hand. On the 2nd,
Jones hangs a yellow flag out of his front window,
and reports himself half an hour late at the office next
day, but explains that he has been up all night at-
tending Jones, junr. who is down with a bad attack
of small-pox. Jones, Sen. is immediately rushed off
home in a nab, and told not to bother with his official
work for three months. Goes to Melbourne and will
win £530 on Cup Day. Sic est vita.
He said he was the sole editor of the Sydney
Slasher. And he wanted his hair cut, his face washed
and shaved, bear’s grease rubbed in thick around his
head, and a cake of plug tobacco. The barber said he
thoroughly coincided with him. He certainly did
want a shave and a wash, and so the literary party
shortly after this once more stepped forth as a clean
and healthy human being. “ What’s ta pay ?’’ en-
quired the Slasher. “ Two-and-six,” replied the
Scraper. “ But I’ve only got two shillings," said the
genius, diving about his pockets. “ All right, hand
over that," returned Mr. Tonsor; “I can make the
other sixpence out of the first gentleman that comes
in.” “ I think I hear the angels sing,” observed the
man of letters, and the matter ended.
There was an egg-eating match at Armidale, the
other day. There was subsequently a meeting on the
subject at a local hostelry, when Brown remarked: —
“ There’s no eggageration in the Chronicle’s report;
the egg-eater is an eggspert, and the manner in which
he eggseavated those eggs was really astonishing 1"
Jones: “ It is really eggsasperatiug to hear a man talk
such folly." Landlady: “ Oh, mi, the poor fellow must
have felt very much eggshansted when he finished his
last egg." Landlord: “ It will not do to eggsport any
more eggs." Landlady: “ Oh, dear, no 1 it is some-
thing eg—egg.” “Exactly so,” cried a larrikin out-
side ; “ what a fine beak the old fowl has; I would like
to pullet.” Landlady, greatly enraged: “ Yor fowl-
mouthed whelp, if I get you I shall make an eggshibi-
tion of you.” This stopped the conversation, the larri-
kin mounted a fence and crowed, “ it’s all ova,” when
the company dispersed.
With regard to a paragraph which appeared in
our issue of the 17th, we have received from the In-
spector of Charities a note, enclosing a letter addressed
to him by Miss Osbnrne, lady superintendent of the
Sydney Infirmary, in which that lady says:—“ Accord-
ing to your wish I asked the nurses, last night at roll-
call, taking them seriatim as they come in the book, and
I find not one now on the staff has over given on her
own responsibility the medicine ordered by one doctor
to the patients of another doctor.” We are quite
ready to believe that Miss Osburne would not counte-
nance such proceedings as those in question; but we
must point out that the words “ now on the staff” con-
tain an apparent evasion of the point at issue. Besides,
it doesn’t by any means follow that because the nurses
—nice girls, some of the nurses—deny ever having
changed a patient’s medicine on their own responsi-
bility, such a thing has never been done.
The Hawkesbury Chronicle has got its
bard, too. His name is “ Asmdeus,” and this is how
he creaks:—
“ Youth and beauty bright
Was (sic) too enchanting quite,
That night at the tea j
Even as I write
Their dazzling light
Puts quite a set on me.”
Now, then; boup-la our Pegasus :
Why will you owls at dogg’rel hammer,
And yearn for rhyme, when you lack grammar P
Why will you try to write at all
Who’d so adorn a huckster’s stall ?
Take our advice, “ Asmdeus," now—
Give up the pen, and milk the cow!
Plough, delve, or—bust, but we implore
You, sweet “ Asmdeus” —croak no more.
There is a white man living at Quirindi. A
teamster who owed him £6O was run over by his team
and killed, not long ago. The wife then went round
to see him about the debt. Directly he heard her
story, he gave her a receipt in full for the money. His
name is Thomas Steel Greehan, J.P. The other day, in
Sydney, a somewhat similar case occurred. A working
man, who had been with his employer many years,
during which period he had got into his debt to the
extent of £lO odd, sickened and died. And this wife
came round to sea what could be done. “ Have you
any property at all ?” asked the employer, with a be
nignant smile. “ Only a small allotment of land out at
,” replied the widow tearfully. “What is it worth ?’*
enquired the man of wealth. “ About £3O, sir,” was
the reply. “ Then I’ll take the lend, and let you off the
balance," returned the man. And he took it every foot,
and left the widow and children to starve. His name
is but why record it, when it is down in posters
letters in the “ big book ?’’
Mr. Hugh Taylor, of Parramatta (and for that
matter universal) fame, writing to that magnificent
journalistic organ of which John Ferguson, Esquire,
is editor and proprietor, says:—“ It is a very strange
thing indeed, that a few gentlemen cannot assemble tor
a little relaxation in the evenings at the ‘ Corner,’ but
pressmen, armed with note book and pencil, must hang
about their skirts, ready to take down every cha/nce word
that may be uttered with the object of presenting it in narra-
tive form to the public." We can’t agree with you in
this, Hughey, dear. Words of wisdom are precious,
and should not be lost to a world that is already prone
to be banale. Now we have heard that you meet at the
“ Comer," and settle the fate of the country daily, we
shall send an envoy to fatten upon your wisdom. If at
the next re-union you notice a particularly distinguished
looking man, with noble features, and a very high fore-
head, clad in resplendent garb, and noting down things
with a diamond pencil and an 18-carat gold note-book,
ask that man what he’ll take. It will be ourselves.
Bush morality. Mr. Russell Barton, in speak-
ing on the Licensing Bill, related an interesting incident
which came under his own observation. He was
sojourning at a shanty near Cobar one Sunday, and, as
was customary, there were a large number of men there
enjoying themselves as only the frequenters of bush
pubs, can do. An enthusiastic Wesleyan preacher was
staying in the neighbourhood, and on being informed
of the horrible desecration carried on at the pub. he
wended his steps thither, fully determined that the
cause of God should triumph, and that a score of
erring sinners should proclaim repentance for their
evil doings. The sight which met his gaze on entering
the parlour (?) ot the pub. was an army of men in
various stages of intoxication playing pitch-and-toss.
Instead of being overawed by the presence of the white
choker and the upturned optics, the men became more
jubilant, if that were possible. The parson began to
expostulate with them for tht ir wicked conduct, and in
the middle of a sentence which ought to have thawed
a heart of stone, he was seized and deprived of his hat
and coat. He was then told that he would not be
allowed to leave the hotel till he had played a “ three-
up.” There was no escape; and ho joined in the game.
Mr. Barton ended his story here, but we expected that
he would conclude stating that the parson won;
and that he now held the opinion that, after all,
humanity was not so debased as temperance spouters
would represent.
Australian Country Mansions.
DUCKENFIELD—THE RESIDENCE OF THE HON JOHN EALES, M.L.C.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by secre-
taries of racing clubs and managers of sporting
events in general.
EACINQ.
Adelaide September 24.
Kensington Park September 24.
Maryborough & farisbook (Vic ) T. C... September 28,29.
Melbourne Hunt Club October 1.
Adelaide Hunt Club October 1.
Bega October 6.
Adelaide October 6, 7.
Hawkes’ Bay (N.Z.) Pacing Club October 12.
Wollongong October 12,13.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club Meeting.... October 13, 15.
Narrabri October 18, 19.
Kensington Park October 22.
Victoria E C. Spring Meeting Oct. 29; Nov. 1,3, 5.
Brighton Park (Vic.) November 9.
Murrumburrab November 9
Parramatta November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J. C. Spring Meeting... Nov. 8, 10, 11.
Queensland T. C November 9, 10.
Wyndham (Vic.) November 19.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club November 23, 24, 25.
Bendigo Jockey Club Meeting Nov. 23. 24,
Murrumbidgee Spring Meeting November 23, 24, 25.
Wellington Eacing Club (N.Z ) Spring Meeting.. Nov. 30
Dunedin (If .Z ) J 0. Spring Maeting..,Nov. 30 and Dec 1.
Oamaru (N.Z.) J.C. Spring Meeting... December 5 and 6.
Southland (N.Z.) J. C. Meeting December 8 and 9.
Temora December 8, 9.
Warialda J.C. Annual December.
A.J.C. Summer Meeting December.
Victorian Amateur Turf Club December 26.
Williamstown (Vic.) December 26.
Pleasant Creek (Vic.) December 26, 27.
Ballarat Turf Club December 26, 27.
Sydney Turf Club December 31.
Auckland (N.Z.) Summer Meeting Dec. 26 ; Jan. 1, 2.
V.K.C. Champion January 1.
Tattersall’s (Sydney) January X.
AQUATICS.
Elliott v Blackman, £lOO,
Thames Champion Course September.
Electric Telegraph Annual Begatta October 1.
Boss v. Hanlan (Toronto) October.
Sportsman Challenge Cnp, 200 guineas—New-
easi le- on-Ty ne October.
All Schools’ Eace —Mayor’s Trophy October 5.
M. Trial Fours October 8.
N. Bowing Association Begatta October 8,15
Double Bay Eegatta October 29.
Balmain Eegatta November 9.
South Australian Amateur Bowing Associa-
tion Eegatta December.
Holdsworth, Qardyne, and Co.’s trophy for
8-oar Outriggers December.
PEDESTEIANISM.
50 Miles Walk, Hippodrome September 24.
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club Sports September 24.
Hunter’s Hill Athletic Club Sports October 1.
Brennan v. Qoodburn, 48 hours Go-as-you-
please, £5O, Osborne Hall, Forbes... October 5.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS
Wandering Jew belongs to Mr. Maitland, who
is at present in India.
The Two Thousand winner, Peregrine, has been
purchased by Lord AUngton for 7000 guineas.
The ploughing match at Goulburn for Mr. D.
Broadhead’s cup was won by J. Bugg, of Goulburn.
The Parramatta Jockey Club has decided upon
issuing a liberal and attractive programme for 9th Nov.
next.
Newcastle C.C. athletic sports eventuate on
Saturday. All the well-known local peds. are in active
training.
R. Edwards is willing to make a match over the
champion course with Bush, the latter to concede a
start of a half-minute.
The English race-horse Hopbloom, aged, by
Parmesan-Cognisance, has been purchased for Austra-
lia for stud purposes.
There is to be a race meeting at Kogarah on
Saturday Five events are on the card, including a
handicap trot of three miles.
The Melbourne Derby candidate, Nautilus,
broke a small blood-vessel while doing a gallop lately,
and has receded in the betting.
The backers of Spinningdale will be glad to
learn that she has recovered from the severe shaking
received in her fall at the Hawkesbury.
Wheatear’s weight for the Melbourne Cup is
7st 11b. His Derby win rates him at 6st 121 b, and his
victory in the Members’ Handicap adds another 31b
penalty.
At the annual meeting of the Victoria House
Cricket Club, held on Ist Sept., officers were elected for
the ensuing season. The club’s annual picnic takes
place at Tennyson, Ist Oct.
Queensland Turf Club meeting on November 9
audio. Eleven nominations have been received for the
Brisbane Handicap, 13 for the Queensland Cup, and 14
for the Prince of Wales Stakes.
An enthusiastic admirer of Rush was heard to
observe at a late match, “ Didn’t I tell ye he could bate
him ? he can bate any man in the world now that he’s
learnt to use the shlipping sate I "
Pratt has been appointed slipper for the coming
season for the N.S.W. Coursing Club. His slipping
last season may be considered to have been fairly satis-
factory. He improved wonderfully.
A 24 hours’ go-as-you-please contest on Saturday
at Adelaide, between Francis and Williams, resulted in
favour of the former, who covered 104 miles 28 laps,
Williams having accomplished 97 miles 10 laps.
The Great Yorkshire Autumn Handicap was
run for on the 14th instant with the following result: —
The Duke of Beaufort’s Petronel, 1; Mr. E. Jardine’s
Teviotdale, 2; Colonel Forrester’s Syracuse, 3.
The race for the Doncaster St. Leger Stakes,
on September 14, resulted thus; —Mr. P. Lorillard’s
Iroquois, 1; Mr. F. Qretton’s Geologist, 2; Mr. C.
Perkins’ Lucy Glitters, S. Another great victory for
America.
The team of cricketers organized for a trip
through the colonies were banqueted at Nottingham.
A. Shrewsbury, one of the best all-round Nottingham
cricketers, has been taken ill and is unable to accom-
pany the team.
At a meeting of the Glen Innes Jockey Club, on
the 13th inst., Mr. H. C. Antill was elected secretary,
tad Mr. J. A. P. Selkirk treasurer. The races are to
take place on 2nd and 3rd January next. The Maiden
“late is 1J mile, and the prize £5O,
Mr. I. D. Walker, the English cricketer now
sojourning in Victoria, has promised to arrange with
the Marylebone and Surrey clubs to allow members of
the Melbourne club to become honorary members of
those clubs when visiting the old country.
Alick Bannerman will play with the Carlton’s
this season. He will be a valuable acquisition to that
m t' should show formidably in the coming cup
Jhatches. Indeed, we cannot see what is to prevent the
oarltons from winning the Cup straight away.
IJe handicaps for the Sydney Amateur Athletic
lub Spring sports, which are to take place on the
"Wciation Ground on Saturday, are published, and
good contests may be expected. These gatherings are
popular, and are becoming more important every
thf o^ I*so 1 * 50 m^ea walk, which is to take place at
on Saturday, the following are the
Eaynor, W. Edwards, C. Swan, A. White,
naren, J. C. Williams, A. Patience, G. W. Lindsay,
p F. Spalding, W, Baker, C. Bosenberg,
The D.T. talks of Edwards v. McDonald as
though it were an intercolonial match, instead of being
a contest between two promising (but as yet almost un-
tried) pullers. We may take the liberty of pointing out
to the D.T. that our man, E. C. Laycock, is the present
champion of Victoria.
For fully seventy hours prior to his race with
Kush, Laycock, it seems, was so ill as to be unable to
eat. Rush, as has already been stated, wanted £5O to
postpone the match; and it is a pity that the taciturn
Elins didn’t apply for the amount to his backers, who
would readily have “ parted.”
We cut the following from the New York
Clipper of July 2:—“The manager of the English
branch of the American company who advertise their
nostrums through the medium of boat-races, &0., offers
a 500 dollar cun as a prize, open to all college crews, to
be rowed for at Henley or elsewhere in England."
The sculling contest for the prize of <£lso,
offered by Messrs. Chinnery to English senior scullers,
came off on the Thames on the 12th Sept., the course
being from the Aqueduct to Mortlake. The race was
won by Boyd ; Largan. second; Hawdon, third. Time
24 min 24 sec. Great interest was manifested in the
contest.
The second of a series of races for the trophies,
presented to the Sydney Homing Pigeon Society by
the President, took place from Moss Vale, 86 miles,
and was won by Mr. T. Musgrove’s bird, which covered
the distance in 2 hours 3 minutes ; Mr. H. Dolfendahl’s
bird was second, in 2 hours 5 minutes; and Mr. Pratt's
was third.
Ballarat Hunt Club Eaces. Saturday—Novel
Handicap Selling Race : Try Me 1, Buzza 2, Lillian 3.
Open Handicap Hurdle Race: Nimrod 1, Zephyr 2.
Ballarat Bunt Club Cup: Ajax 1, Syphon 2. Corner
Handicap : Terrific 1, Bouquet 2, Bushman 3. Amateur
Welter Handicap Hurdle Race: Blue Peter 1, Nimrod
2, Skipper 3.
Sam Harding, one of the best of stick jockeys,
broke his leg while riding in the hurdle race at Rand-
wick on Saturday. A goodly sum was collected for
him en the ground, and on Monday it was augmented
by a donation of £lO 10s. from the Sydney Turf Club,
voted on the motion of Mr. J. J. Taylor, seconded by
Mr. E. T?rry.
Adelaide Eacing Club Meeting. Saturday.
—Hurdle Race: New Zealand 1, Leroi 2. Qaspipe 3,
Sapling Stakes; Blue Stocking 1, Guesswood 2, Home
Rule 3. Steeplechase, Gunn 1, Charley 2, Gladstone 3.
Selling Race : King Lud 1, Moutaineer 2, Middleton 3.
Exhibition Handicap : Turretfleld 1, Assyrian 2, Baron
Von Mueller 3.
A groat many papers persist in stating that
W. W. Charters, arrested at Bristol by the English
police, is the man who bolted from Auckland (N.Z.)
with a £4OOO sweep. This is utterly incorrect. The
defaulting Auckland sweepholder is North, a barber;
Charters is the absconding secretary of a Christchurch
building society.
For the Melbourne Derby, Somerset still retains
the pride of place in the betting, though the friends of
Monmouth and Spinningdale remain constant. Duchess
came into the market with a rush, and was backed on
Saturday to win the Cup for several thousands.
Bathurst, Waxy, Sir Modred, and Wandering Jew have
been steadily supported.
Some excellent shooting was made during the
Queensland Rifle Association Meeting. Gunner Davis,
of Ipswich, ayonthof 19, won the Queen’s prize, with 88
points out of a possible 105. Private Sterling, of
Toowoomba, made a possible score, at 500 yards, in the
intercolonial match, of 12 consecutive bull’s-eyes, in-
cluding two sighting shots.
M. Eudolphe, the French billiardist, commenced
a series of billiard exhibitions on Saturday at Perkins’
Hotel. After an exhibition of carom playing, he com-
menced a game. 200 up, with an amateur, during which
he made a splendid break of 152. The exhibition ter-
minated with two games between Weiss and Rudolphe,
both of which Weiss won easily.
What has sculling in England come to ? This—
that a prize is offered excluding any oarsman not born
in Great Britain or Ireland. Ch’nnery Brothers are the
donors, and they sigh for their bleeding country. The
prizes will last for five years, and the contest is to be
annual. But these second-class contests will create no
great interest in the aquatic world.
A hand-ball match for .£2O took place on Thurs-
day last, at the Rising Sun Ball Court, A. Dillon, the
champion, playing against Messrs. Farrell and Walsh,
the winners of the first three games (of 21 aces each) to
take the money. Dillon was victorious in the first two,
the third falling to his opponents; the fourth, however,
was gained by Dillon, who thus won the match.
For the “ ladies’ ” go-as-you please for six days
(12 hours per day), which commences on Monday, the
26th Sept., the first prize is £5O, with a gold necklace
and Maltese cross set in brilliants; second, £25 ; third,
£lO. The entrance foe is £2 2s. Competitors from a
distance will be allowed travelling expenses. We
should say the pav6 would be a good training-ground for ■
this event.
It is suggested that the Intercolonial Eleven
should be selected by the certainties in the Eleven. A
good plan: but what is the Association to do ? How
can the members be reconciled to the doing away with
that annual humbug, the selection committee, and the
equally absurd institution, the selection practices, which
encroach so much upon the daily practice of the general
body of cricketers ?
The Tasmanian fishing season has fairly com-
menced. Au esteemed correspondent, writing by last
steamer, tells us that since the 2nd inst, 58 fish have
been taken, some of them weighing over 10 lbs. Most
have been taken about Bridgewater, but in a week or
two there will be fine sport about New Norfolk, where
Host Blookly has got his boats and fishing-tackle and
licenses ready to hand.
The National Cricket Club held its annual meet-
ing on Friday evening. During the past season the
club played 33 matches, of which 29 were won, 3 lost,
and 1 drawn P. Duncan secured the trophy for batting
with an average of 16 19-29, and Mr. Watkins the prize
for bowling. The trophies are of a most artistic
design and are from the atelier (sweet word) of Mr. W.
Kerr, of George-street.
The programme for the Balmain Eega* ta, on 9bh
November, is published. The principal) events are
Champion Scullers’ Race, for hand fide amateurs, in
wager boats; All-Comers in light skiffs, handicapped;
Open Boats under canvas, 22 and 24 feet; all Amateurs
pulling two pairs sculls in light skiffs, with coxswain ;
handicapped yachts. The entries should be numerous,
and the regatta not less popular than usual.
The indifferent starting at Eandwick on Satur-
day was a matter of public comment, and proved that
amateur starters are not a success. They too often,
as was the case on Saturday, lose nerve when dealing
with a refractory field. Horse owners would prefer
paying an old hand liberally, to having their horses
punished by a dozen starts for one race. The Sydney
Turf Club should bear this in mind at future meetings,
Mr. P. Lorillard.the owner of Iroauois.has a large
breeding establishment at Jobstown, New Jersey. The
state comprises 1000 acres of land. There are over 100
brood mares, and there is a private training track three-
quarters of a mile round. There are 51 miles of under-
ground drainage, besides nine miles of open ditches. A
private school is maintained on the estate at Mr. Loril-
lard’s expense for the benefit of the education and
moral training of the boys.
Mr. M. Gallagher, of the Thistle Hotel, Auck-
land, is one of the most enterprising of sportsmen.
Had it not been for his receiving special cables, the
result of the Hawkesbury Handicap would not have
been known there until the mail arrived The result
of the Guineas was also received at Dunedin, privately.
We never see much New South Wales sport in the New
Zealand papers, and, therefore, are not surprised at the
interested parties getting it themselves.
On July 14, Merrill, the American amateur
athlete, competed in the mile walking match at the
Lewes Athletic Sport, over a grass course, and won
very easily in 6min. 39aec. His beet record for the dis-
tance made in America on a cinder path is 6min.
33 2 ssec„ and is the fastest in the world. At the
Widnes (near Liverpool) Athletic Sports, on July 21,
Myers won the quarter and the half-mile races with
ridiculous ease, the former in 53 3-ssec., and the latter
in 2min. ssec.
The Australasian has a very straightforward
article about the Mayo disqualification. We’d gladly
reprint it, if only to illustrate the difference which
exists between the privilege enjoyed by the Press of
Victoria and of N.S.W. However, as we don’t care
about a £5O 000 libel action, in which our destinies
might be entrusted to the sweet will of a low publican
with the liver complaint, we’ll let the Austral
asian article alone. The paper can be bought for
sixpence by any interested person.
Pearce, who rowed second in the Walker Whisky
Regatta, is the coming man. He is powerfully built,
and is of enormous strength. He does his practices
round Farm Cove, generally adorned with an old white
bell-topper “razeed,” Ke prefers to row bare-footed,
and, by the way, very often playfully indulges in
the pastime of gripping his fellow watermen by the
calves with his big toe, the " snipping” power of which
is marvellous. This has gained him the nickname of
“ Footy.” When he walks across a blue metal road,
the steam roller isn’t wanted.
The Victorian members of Sydney Tattersall’s
were “ sat upon ” at a late meeting of the club, whether
rightly or not we are not in a position to say. The result
is that Victorians are partially disfranchised through
the annual meeting having been decided to be held in
March instead ©f April. We are sorry that the con-
venience of the Victorian members is not studied to
any great extent, but we are not prepared to attribute
to the chairman and Sydney members any intentional
discourtesy. How does Sydney fare in representation
at the Melbourne betting club ?
This season will see the revival of a regatta on
the tortuous course of the Upper Yarra, but under con-
ditions very different from those of old times. The
manual labour element is to be kept entirely out of the
coming meeting—the only chance bona fide amateurs
seem to have of appropriating prizes now a-day. The
affair will probably bring out a number of crews too
timid to try their metal on the Saltwater, and thus
make the Upper Tarra a sort of training ground for the
Association Regatta later on. As the hard-luck clubs
are taking a warm interest in the Upper Yarra flutters,
a great success is almost ensured.
Pigeon matches were held last week in the
Victoria Reserve, Goulbum. The first match, for a
sweep of £l, 5 birds, 25 yards: H. Payten and L.
Waugh shot 4 each and divided; H. Gordon, 3; W.
Davis, F. Gordon, and Rennie retired. In the second
match, Waugh and Payten shot 4 each and again
divided. There were the same number of shooters in
the third match, same conditions, except that Waugh
and Payten were handicapped by 26 yards. Payten shot
5, Davis 4 The two Gordons, Waugh, and Rennie re-
tired. In the fourth match, similar oo’ ditions, Pay ten
shot 5 and Davis 5, divided ; the Gordons, Rennie, and
Waugh retired the third round.
The race on Saturday in outriggers over the
champion course, Parramatta River, for £2OO a side,
between Rush and Power, resulted in a victory for Rush I
by about a length. In 22 min. 55 secs. A capital start
took place. Power getting a slight lead, which Rush
scan reduced. After the mile, the Clarence River
sculler had the race well in hand, though Power made
desperate and game efforts to overhaul his leader. The
water was smooth, and according to general opinion,
suited Rush. With reference to his previous race with
Power, Rush states that it was not the rough water
that destroyed his chance —he is ready to pull Power
in any weather—but he had been unwell, and held his
opponent too lightly.
The Oar Boys Cricket Club held their annual
meeting on Wednesday, the 14th instant. A good
ground has been secured for the cc ming season. The
bowling trophy, presented by Mr. P. Cubitt, was won
by T. Stafford. W. Varley won the batting trophy, and
also Mr. Cubitt’s trophy for fielding. Master T.
Llewellyn, for his services as scorer, received a hand-
somely-bound volume, illustrated. Mr, F. A. Cubitt,
president, and Mr. W. Moyes, secretary, were eaoh the
recipient of handsome presents, in recognition of their
services to the club. Following are the office-bearers:
Patron, T. Thompson; president. P. A. Cubitt; vice-
presidents : Q. Peapes, W. Shaw; secretary, W,
Moyes; treasurer, L G. Robinson; committee: J. W.
Duesbury, J. Davison, E. M‘C irthy, T. Stafford, W.
Varley; selection committee: Messrs. Cubitt, Moyes,
and Robinson.
At the adjourned special meeting of the N.S.W.
Cricket Association certain resolutions were adopted
respecting the Domain Cricket Ground. Only £3OO has
been voted to repair the damage done to the ground, npon
which thousands of pounds had been expended. And if
the £3OO has been spent upon the gronnd, there is no ap-
parent benefit. The ground is lumpy, and so is the
grass. Another top-dressing is necessary before cricket
can be played there. The Government gave a promise
that the ground should be restored to the cricketers in
good condition, and the Association and general cricket-
ing body should not rest until that promise is redeemed.
The donors of the Holdsworth, Qardyne & Co. trophy,
are to be asked to fall in with the proposal to have
twenty-four matches played for it next season; the
club winning the moat matches, after meeting the other
clubs twice, all round, to be considered winners for a
season, and a club winning it for three seasons (not
necessarily consecutive) to gain permauent possession.
The City Rowing Club (Melbourne), which has
risen, Phmnix-like, from the ashes of the Hawthorn
Club, should have a future before it. The history of
the old club is singular. Started four years ago, in its
first season it scored a good win, but fell into financial
troubles from which it never recovered. At the three
following Melbourne regattas it succeeded each time in
carrying off the junior eight, the crews thus becoming
the owners of The Leader Cup, a trophy which had
for years been on the boards, and had produced some of
the grandest races yet seen in Victorian waters. At
Colac, last year, the Hawthorns beat Upward’s orew,
but the occurrence of an unfortunate foul rendered the
victory unsatisfactory. The eight has carried the
M'lndoes (champion swimmers of Victoria) and the
amateur champion scalier, Mr. Fitts; and if the colours
of the Footscray “demons” are to be lowered next
April, the City orew of heavy weights will be the
victors. In any case, their meeting, should it take
place, will be eagerly anticipated by rowing men.
The Walker Whisky prizes were paid over on
Thursday evening to the winners—Elias Laycook,
Henry Pearce, and J. J. Power. Laycook, in returning
thanks, commended the liberality of Messrs. Mason
Brothers, the donors of the prizes. He also referred
to the degrading rumours that had been circulated
anent his match with Rush. He stated that for some
days prior to the race he was unwell, and at one time
resolved to pay forfeit to Rush; but he recovered a
little, and believed he was good enough to win. The
result showed that he wasn’t, and he and his friends
lost heavily by the race. The health of Messrs. Mason
Brothers was proposed, and Mr. Cullen, representing
that firm, thanked those present, and expressed his
satisfaction that the intention of the donors had been
so well carried out by Mr. P. J. Clark and the com-
mittee. Laycook received £2OO, Pearce £7O, and
Power £3O. £132 was the nett amount of “ boat-
money,” which was divided as follows amongst the
prize takers : —Laycook £BB, Pearce £2O, Power £l4.
The entries for the Thomson Junior Challenge
Cup close on Friday week. The following have entered
up to the present time : —Corio, Croydon, Young Ox-
ford, Derwent, Glebe, Strathmore, Osborne, Royal
Orient, Lincoln, Clio, National, Excelsior, Persever-
ance, Alexandria, Lismore, and Carthona. Of these,
the National ought to be the favourite, though there is
no knowing what latent talent may exist in the other
clubs. Nat. should be commended for his liberality,
and there is no doubt that the result of these contests
will be anticipated by the cricketing public with as
much interest as that of the contests for the Holds-
worth, Gardyne, and Co. trophies for the senior clubs.
Cricket has received an unusual impetus by these prizes,
and the coming season will be eventful iu the extreme,
lu connection with the junior contests, we would sug-
gest that the clubs engaged, in the event of no patron
of cricket coming forward, should subscribe for tro-
phies to be presented for the best performances in the
matches. It would certainly be the duty of the Asso-
ciation to give a trophy, for though the contest is out-
side of its jurisdiction, cricket will be improved by the
encouragement of the junior clubs.
The ninth annual meeting of the Petersham
Cricket Club was held on the Ist instant. During the
season, the Ist eleven played 24 matches, of which 16
were won, 2 lost, and 6 drawn. The 2nd eleven played
20 matches, winning 11, losing 6, the remainder 3
being drawn. Trophies for the best batting average
and the highest aggregate number of runs were pre-
sented to Mr. R. Roberts, who obtained the excellent
average of 35 runs per innings, and an aggregate of 419
runs. Mr. P. Marr received the bowling trophy, having
secured an average of 3.74 runs per wicket. Trophies
were also presented to Mr. A. Loveridge for second
best bowling, with an average of 4.93 runs per wicket;
Mr. T. Loveridge, for obtaining the highest number of
catches (18) during the season; and in the 2nd eleven,
to Messrs. J. Baker, S. Gelding, and P Dawes. The
balance in hand was £42. Following are the office-
bearers for the season: —Patron, E. Fowler, J.P.;
President, J. Wheeler; Vice-Presidents, T. R. Smith,
M.P., J. Young, J.P., W. Inglis, A. Loveridge; Secre-
tary, J. T. Seale; Treasurer, J. Ireland; Committee,
T. Loveride, A. Loveridge, J. Inglis, E, H. Seale, W.
Price; delegate, H. M‘Lachlan.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
“ Smith ” writes to say that he won a sweep at
last Randwick races, and that the h dder, a man in the
"Service," won’t pay it up. The Civil servant in question,
is “Smith" says,’ a sweep Robert Downs, once
well-known as a jockey in Auttralia, was drowned on
July J 5, in the river Mabavihaganga, Colombo, Ceylon.
At Herberton, Wild River, N.Q, W. P. Morgan,
solicitor, played billiards with David Rob-on, baker,
for £2O aside. Dough beat Law by 30 points The
Clio C.C. defeated the North Sydney C.C., on Saturday,
on the Darlington Ground, by 50 runs. Scores: Clio
64, N. Sydney 14. R. Abel contributed 33 to the score
of the victors. Gribble and Sweetmau bowled well,
the former having the splendid average of 7 wickets for
8 runs. This is the second time that the North .■~ydueys
I have had to succumb to the Clios The Dunedin
Jockey Club are busily engaged in improving the For-
bury racecourse Mata and Le Loup meet in the
Canterbury (N.Z.) Cup, rim next November The
Auckland Racing Club is prospering; £250 more added
money is to be given in stakes at the ensuing summer
meeting than that given in previous years On Satur-
day, at the Rising Sun Handball Court, Dillon plays D.
Dwyer and Molloy a match for £2O, first three games of
21 aces A match took place on Saturday' over hurdles
ou Morphetville (S.A) course, between Sheet Auchor,
Myall, and Rob Roy, resulting in an easy win for Sheet
Anchor Trickett accounts for his defeat at Ottawa
as being due partly to want of condition, but in a
greater degree to the had start he got The annual
football match between the N.Z. provinces, Otago and
Canterbury, eventuated in a win for the former by a
goal and a try to nothing Franck's action against
the Canterbury J.C. and others for infringing his total-
isator patent is fixed for 24th October John Conway
asks £350 and hotel expenses, on behalf of the English
cricketers, for a three days’ match at Christchurch.
The terms are considered exorbitant, and £2O a man is
offered by the Association The Young Princess C.C.
beat the Shamrock C.C. last Saturday by 6 runs, after a
well contested game Albion C.C. v. Croydon C.C.,
Moore Park, Saturday last. Alhions won by G runs.
Scores : A. C.C., 39; C. C.C. 33. Principal scorers, for
Albion Walling, 13; for Croydon, Carroll, 18. The
bowling of Thomas and Bailey for the A.C.C. and
of Dennis for the C. C.C. was very effective
Hero of Waterloo v. Stratheam C.C. The latter won.
Scores :70 and 15. The fielding of the winners was very
good, that of the losers extremely loose A billiard
tournament on the tapis at Tenterfield The Britannia
C.C. beat the Ivanhoe C.C. last Saturday, by one run,
after an exciting game. Scores 40 and 41 respectively.
Charley Bannerman received £25 from the Carl-
tons for his services last season The captain of the
Young Princess C.C. writes, saying that his club was
beaten by the Kingsborough C.C. not by 4 wickets, but
by 4 runs Some tall shooting. Messrs. Julian Win-
deyer and W. H. Oxley shot 1.3 i brace snipe, on a lagoon
near Maitland, Saturday week The Maitland Gun
Club had their first day’s shooting last Saturday. The
events consisted of a “Members Handicap,” and a
“ Muffs Match." First won by W. Graham, who shot
really well. The latter event was won by a genuine
muff, Mr. F. Falkiuer. Pigeon pies were common next
day Nathaniel Oldham has been committed for trial
for selling the racehorse Fiddlestring, said to have Uen
merely entrusted to his care....Qoodburu,whois matched
against Forbes in a “go-as-you-please,” at Gnnfell,
Oct. 5, has been in active training. He is plucky, and
has good staying powers, but is much less j ou'hful
than his competitor The horses Victor and Amateur
raced two miles at Rosedale, near Mormrum i, fora
small wager. Amateur won by six lengths. Weights
for age. Time. 4min. 20sec.
* # *
George Low, owner of the colt Barcaldino, tele-
graphed to Sir John Astley, asking the latter if he
could manage to send him £lOOO not to start for the
Northumberland Plate, or get for him £12,000 to £lOOO
to win, adding “reply to our mutual advantage.” The
Jockey Club have warned Low off all courses under
their control The long distance amateur swimming
championship was contested on July 23, over the regu-
lation course on the Thames, from Putney to Charing
Cross Railway Bridge, 5} miles, and was won by Mr.
W. R. Richardson, of the Dublin Swimming Club
Deposits for prize fights in America are now made with
the editor of the Police Gazette. The Clipper and
other such papers won’t accept them William
liumsdeu, of Blyth, once well-known as a sculler of the
Tyne, has emigrated to America The English lawn
tennis championship, contested ou 15th July, at St.
John’s Wood, was won by Mr. J. M. Heathcote .. On
July 23 the amateur and professional jockeys played a
•ricket match at Belgravia, resulting in a victory for
the amateurs by 243 runs Fred Krohne, of New
York, challenges Harriman, O'Leary, Tracey, Taber, or
Vaughan, to walk him 144 hours for from 500 to 2-500
dollars aside, for the championship of the world, the
contest to take place in New York or Chicago in
October Wallace Ross lately was the recipient of a
handsome gold medal from Hanlau, being a present
from the champion in remembrance of the kindness of
the New Brunswicker while Hanlan was training in
England for his race with Laycock. Now, Wallace is
trying to make a match with him An equestrian
contest between two females will eventuate at K msas
City (U. 8.) on Sept. 14, the distance to be 10 miles;
time, 30min. or under; neither woman to touch the
ground except when changing from one horse to on-
other. The match is for 2000 dols On July 21, at
the Worcester Athletic Sports,Mr. W. Q. George started
from scratch in the mile race, and did the distance in
4min. 24Jsec On July 25, a young amateur pedestrian
named Edwin Pusedale, of St. John-street, London,
aged about 18, aud weighing Bst., accomplishel the
extraordinary feat of running 9 miles in 53m in
Trickett challenged George H. Hosmer, of Boston, to
row for 1000 dols. aside, on Saratoga Lake, in four weeks
from signing articles. It is likely that Hosmer will
accept Wallace Ross is reported to have said re-
cently that he is satisfied he can beat Hanlan, and will
row the champion for “ big money ’’ anywhere excepting
on Toronto Bay, where both Hanlan and Trickett arev
training. Hanlan has received several post cards
threatening his life It is stated Coney Island and
Saratoga have each offered 4000 dols. for the new 1
Hop Bitters regatta, in which 3000 dols. are to bo dis-
tributed in prizes. Mr. Soule, it is said, has de-
cided to let Saratoga have it in accordance with
the wishes of Trickett, Riley, and (’ourtney
Warren Smith, according to the N.Y. Clipper, has
given up training, and returned to his home at Sambro,
N.S. He is suffering from a chronic complaint of an
asthmatic nature Hanlan is getting a new shell
built by Ruddick, of Boston, U.S A Chinaman
named Ah Foo is training racehorses at New Plymouth,
N.Z. What, next ?—why, perhaps the defeat of the All-
England Eleven by a Chinese team, —certainly small.
pox, or horse-pox, among the New Zealand racers
When the mail left England, the cricketers of Kent
were getting up a testimonial to their late captain.
Lord Harris, who is leaving England on a trip found
the world Another meeting is to be held at Boccaccio
Park (Melb.), on Saturday, October 8 Mr Brown,
who rowed bow of the Hertford College four in their
match over the Henley course with the Cornell U uver-
sity crew, is a native of Tasmania Poor H ut.v
Kelley, who has been detained at Saratoga by his broken
leg, is slowly recovering from the effects of his acci-
dent. At present he is hobbling about on crutches
The Spirit of the Times says :—“ The avowed purpose
of the Chinnery Brothers in giving these prizes is to>
encourage British scullers, and develops men able to-
beat their American and Australian opponents. Yet we
find the junior race is to be rowed on nxed seats. This
8 a fine way to encourage and develope young oarsmen.
Why not row it in whaleboats, or punts, or washeubs
......G. L. Hillier’s time for the 50 miles amateur bicy-
cling championship was 2 hours 50 min 50 2-5 hs sec.
Wallace Boss challenged Hanlan for the Champion-
ship, and deposited with the editor of the Boston -
Herald 200 dollars as “earnest money.” As already
stated, Mr. James Keenan, a well-know,i Bostou sp irts-
man, attached the 200 dollars forfeit for debt for money
lent, and expenses paid On July 22, at Sa dwell
Park, Birmingham, a cricket match took place between
elevens from the Edgbaston High School for girls aud
the Sandwell Fork Girls Establishment, resulting in
favour of the latter by 19 runs.


Public Compos
IHE MERCANTILE BAN]
ESTABLISHED 11
INCORPORATED BT ACT OF I
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund....
DIRECTORS!
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M
Henry Mort, Esq.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M L.
AUDITORS
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
H. E. Cohen, Esq.
MANAGEE:
F. A. A. Wilso:
SECRETARY s
Hector Allen.
BRANCHES:
687 Qeorga-street Brickfield Hi
LONDON BANKE
The National Provincial Bani
London Office, 30, Great S
Director —Edward Chapi
Agent—Q. H. Alexand
This Bank transacts all usual Ba
Agency Business on the most favoui
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances ma
other produce shipped to England f
S'
COTTISH IMPE E IA ]
COMPANY.
CAPITAL
FIEE RISKS AT LOWES
INGLIS. NIXON, <
Chief Agents for N.S
7 BRIDGE STREET CH
Sub-Agents wanted in Town
CORNWALL FIRE AND ft
ANCE COMP AN
CAPITAL, £lOO,O
RESERVE FUND
Fire and Marine Risks accepted by
G. A. LLOY D A 1
Agents,
$4B GEOEQE-STEI
SIDNEY.
JNCOMES AS
THE CIVIL SERVICE BANKIN(
CIAL PROVIDENT SOCLE
This Society provides a certain fls
members when thrown out of empl
Medical attendance durir g sicknet
age, and when incapacitated from fo
ment through disease or accident; a
want or distress.
The Society also uses its influenci
suitable re-engagem
For further particulars, apply to
G. HORTON MOER
Secretai
Went
E
Applications for Agencie
Tailors, Drapers, bo.
J TURNER ROBINSON and CO.,
• MARKET CLOTH HALL.
482, late 484, QEORGE-STEEET,
Opposite the Emit Markets.
Established 1864.
A LARGE and WELL-SELECTED STOCK
of
WOLLENS, NEW PATTERNS,
DIRECT from the MANUFACTURERS.
FASAIONABLE
and
FIRST-CLASS GARMENTS
TO ORDER.
All Wool Tweed Trousers, to order, 12s 6d.
c
ASH PRICE LIST OF WES
SPIRITS.
Claret
Dalwood
Hermitage ..
Shiraz
Burgundy ..
Sweet Shiraz
COLONIAL Wlh
RED.
per doz.
... 9b Od
... 10s Od
... 10s Od
... 11s Od
... 12s 6d
... 13a Od
WHITE.
J. T. I
Adolaii
(rich
type]
Adelai'
Reisling
Dalwood
Hook
Madeira
Boulder's Pineau.
Brown Muscat ..
Oood Port
Linder
oat,)
Tokay
ronm
flavo
Linder
vinta
FOREIGN WIN!
24s to 36s Od j Good £
SPIRITS.
Rum,
59s Od
9s Od
10s Od
10s Od
lls Od
15s Od
15s Od
Hennessy’s * Case
Brandy 59s Od Rum, I
Hennessy’s ••• Jann
Case Brandy ... 71s Od Rum, I
Good Pale French Jama
Brandy 45s Od
Good Dark French Brands
Brandy 45s Od Case
Walker’s Old Gin, I
Highd. Whisky.. 46s Od 15 B'
Kemp’s Scotch size)
Whisky 42s Od Gin, I
Other Brands Scotch 15 B
Whisky ... 42s to 48s Od size)
Burke’s ••• Case Gin, J-
Whisky 38s 6d of U
Other Brands Irish Wolfe’
Whisky ... 37s to 45s Od
ALES AND STOC
Bulldog Ale, Boar’s
Quarts 10s 9d quar
Bulldog Ale, Pints 7s 9d Boar’s
Foster’s Ale, qts. lls Od pintf
Foster's Ale, pints 7s 9d Pig B
per doz. quar
Aitken’s Ale, qts... 9s 9d Pig B
Dryborough’s Ale, pints
pints 6s 3d
to" Country Orders for Ales and
4 dozen quarts or 7 dozen pints of
6d. per dozen extra will be charged
A Sample Dozen of assorted bottl
sent on receipt of 15a. by Post Offlot
All Goods delivered carriage free
town or to the Wharves or Redfe
Terms —Prompt Nett Cash on givin
T. VIVIAN RAUC
WINE & SPIRIT MER
65 Pitt-stre d
L
ARQEST
ESTABLISHM)
KIND IN AUSTRA
ASIATIC TEA COM!
279 Pitt-street, Syd
(Next School of Ar
RETAIL PRICE L]
is*™*. I **!** * «• *1
Pure Indian Tea ) k
CHINA GROWN TEAS, Is 2d, 1
2s per lb.
For Family use we pack in air-tigh
121bs of any of the abov
Special Quotations given to whob
Country Orders Promptly and Ca
Snowdrop Crystal Sugar,
Very Nice Sugar, almost Whi
THE Most PERFECT-FITTI
are
SMITH and MANN]
CELEBRATED WHIT
Ready-made, 30/- 40/- and 50/-
SMITH AND MAN
Shirt Makers,
HOSIERS, AND MEN’S
298 George Street, S
(One door South of Hunt
g MALL POX. SI
PREVENTION IS BETTER
JOZEAU’S SANITARY SACHET
VENTIVE of SMALL-POX,
Chemists.
I ATT. GOODS WELL MADE, WELL SHEUNK
AND A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
MERICAN CUT PAPE]
MADAME DEMOI
Perfect Fitting.
Newest styles every mail from Pa
Pull directions and illustrations wit'
MATH ME DEMOEEST’S publics
fashions. 500 Plates, Is.; What to i
Magazine, Is. 6d.; Catalogues, gratis
MISS LOUISA H.
87 King Stbekt, Sydney (two door
and
23 Victoria Arcade, Bonrke-stre
G
80. L. LIN
HIGH-CLASS CASH TJ
3 BRIDGE STREET,
BATE
CUTTEE TO E. MILI
Begs to inform his friends and the
opened the above premises fo:
gentlemen who wish to have thi
mansbip, &e., at a low price for e
Gentlemen requiring this with West
should give me a trial.
Country orders promptly at
W.B.— TWO DOOES FEOM GEC
JJ AYE YOU
TO
r. morph:
233 Pitt Stub
LISE’S PAPER CUT
All communications to be a
•• ELISE,”
No. 12 PAEK STEEET, S
Six doors from Qeorge-
Orders for Patterns cannot be e:
paid. Our cut-out Paper Patterns
style, cut, and finish, being modelled
Fashions, and are always sent pel
receipt of stamps or money order.
MAD Aft
Paper Pati
Mantles,
sizes for
ren furnii
tions and
ing up. £
...... , ...ing from
styles monthly in WEIQEL’I
FASHIONS, Price, 7d; by p
annum, post free. Catalogue
Patterns sent to any part of the
of price and measure. Postage I
Address:
MADAME WEI
161 King-street, Syd
“ I have analysed an original packet of Taeping,
Mixture, and I certify that it is composed of pure
uncolonred teas, and admirably flavoured with delicate
and harmless scenting', which renders it very palatable.
I recommend it as being a wholesome and refreshing
article of diet.—Karl Theodore Staiger, analytical
chemist." —Advt.
WOMAN ITEMS.
Ab Boon as women are ours, we are no longer
theirs.
Nothing is more difficult than to choose a good
husband—unless it bo to choose a good tvife.
Love in marriage would be the realization of a
beautiful dream, if marriage were not too often the end
of it.
The reason why lovers never weary of each
other’s company is because they speak always of them-
selves.
Bonnets are now being made to match dresses.
Perhaps in time they will be made to match limited
incomes.
The matron of the Newcastle Hospital has been
adjudged by the committee guilty of gross neglect of a
patient, and has been called upon to resign.
The reigning beauty of the present London season
is said to be a Mrs Simpson, who with her husband has
Just returned from a five years’ residence in China.
“ Methinks to kiss ladies’ hands after their lips,
as some do, is like little boys, who, after they eat the
apple, fall to the paring, out of the love they have to
the apple.”
The Clothing League, for the abolition of petti-
coats, an association of ladies in Berlin, held a meeting
and adopted resolutions favouring the adoption of the
“ bifurcated garmenture."
Madame Berthe Mouohette, a distinguished
art teacher, whose intended departure from France for
Australia was recently announced by us, has arrived at
Melbourne and commenced practice.
It was neatly done. Her name was Daisy, and
he proffered her a small “ button-hole ” bunch, which
she accepted with a smile. The onlookers, but one,
interpreted it not. It was a sprig of /org«f-m#-not and a
daisy.
A woman named Ann Newton, aged 62, was
recently sentenced to two months imprisonment with-
out the option of a fine, at Bromley, England, for
drinking a pint of milk which had been left on a door-
step.”
1 A female impostor, with four children at her
side, has been on the war path at Hobart. Her plan is
to represent herself as just arrived to receive the dead
body of her beloved husband, get board and lodgings
free, and then decamp.
Mrs. Langtry, daughter of the Dean of Jersey,
and the professional beauty of several past London
seasons, is said to have lost caste in society through
the practical joke of placing a piece of ice under the
collar of the Prince of Wales.
A young woman named Borne, a milliner, has
drowned herself at Ballarat whilst suffering from
religious mania. She was in the habit of attending
religious " revivals," and had been told by one of the
••spouters" that she was commissioned by God to
regenerate the world.
In imitation of the existing mediaeval craze in
England, the managers of the North Woolwich
Gardens, near London, have offered prizes for a bar-
maid show, termed “Ye oonteste of ye prettie
barmaydes,” who are all to bo attired in sixteenth
and seventeenth century costumes.
A man named William Foster, living at Paris,
fell in love with and married a dressmaker. A short
time ago he was found in his room hanging by the
neck, and dressed in a red and yellow “ Punch's ”
costume. On his breast was pinned a piece of paper
with writing, which read: “ 1 commit suicide in this
costume because I wore it the night of the ball where I
made her acquaintance; it is for her I die.”
A young lady belonging to the theatrical
perfosh., who has of late been persecuted by a
foreigner, representing himself to be special correspon-
dent of the Gobemouchk, a Parisian journal, in
answer te many of his notes entreating her to see him,
at length sent him the following billet; “ Darling of
my heart. Come to-morrow at 11, sharp. I shall be
there to embrace you. Thine, till your death,
Ethelinda. P.S.—Father wonts to try his new gun."
Mr. Garrard, who is the most godly teetotaler
in Parliament—he is even more sanctimonious than
John Bcseby, who has been known to smile—declares
that the " prettily featured and grandly-dressed girls ”
who serve at public-house bars are the cause of more
drunkenness and larrikinism than all other influences
put together. He is going to propose that no woman
be allowed to serve in a public-house. As to his
chances of success, inquire of the only Squire in
Parliament.
A woman who had suffered from her husband’s
neglect, traced him to a bar-parlour, whore he was
playing cards with several companions. Setting a
covered dish she held in her hands down upon the
table, she said, “ Presuming that you were too busy to
come home to dinner, I have brought it to you," and
departed. With a forced laugh be invited his friends
to dine with him, but on removing the cover from the
dish found only a slip of paper, on which was written:
“ I hope you will enjoy your meal; it is the same your
family have at home.’ 1
A hard case occurred the other day in the Par
North. It appears that a tin-miner, finding that his
wife, a young girl, persisted in frequenting dance-
rooms, packed her off from the field. When she got
down south, she charged him with having deserted her,
and to meet the complaint the unfortunate man had to
travel 700 miles. By the way, women in the various
colonies frequently make use of the Matrimonial Act
to procure cheap travelling for their husbands. Sup-
pose a man to be at Dubbo, without the money or with-
out the inclination to pay his railway fare down; his
wife located, say in Sydney, gets a warrant for his
arrest, and “puts the police on to him the husband
is arrested and trudked to Sydney at Government ex-
pense. The happy couple “make it up" in court,
and the curtain falls to a lecture by the presiding beak.
Then the happy pair stroll down the street arm-in-arm,
chuckling at the folly of the state.
A gentleman has left with the editor of the
Northern Miner some interesting fossils found by
him last year at the head of the Landsborough Creek.
He says that about Hughenden Station fossil remains
are numerous, the rocks there frequently showing the
teeth of animals sticking out.
William Dudley Mair, a highly-connected young
man, late a clerk in the service of the A.M.P. Society,
has been committed for trial for forging receipts with
intent to defraud the Society. Accused made no de-
fence, freely admitted his guilt, and said he wished to
exonerate others from suspicion.
Lefroy, the Brighton murderer, used to write
the “funny” police reports in a paper once published
in Melbourne called the Democrat, but now defunct.
He also contributed to the Melbourne Herald, and, in
London, to the Weekly Dispatch. His style was
light, and above that of the average of fugitive press
contributors.
Frank Spearin—convicted six years ago of
criminally assaulting a girl named Ulting, and sen-
tenced to ten years’ imprisonment and several floggings
—has been released from Pentridge, by order of the
O’Loghlen Government, on the ground that it is proba-
ble the chief witness against him (the mother of the
prosecutrix) committed perjury. Mr. J. M. Lynch—now
of the Sydney Daily Telegraph—to«k a leading part
in an unsuccessful agitation, got up at the time of con-
viction, to save !-penrin from what everyone who knew
the facts of the case considered the villanously unjust
finding of an ignorant jury.


Hotels, Sto.
OLD0 LD
EXHIBITION OTEL,
PRINCE ALFRED PARE
(Opposite Gate.)
SPLENDID ACCOMMODATION FOE BOARDERS.
Plunge and Shower Baths, Piano, &o.
WINES and SPIRITS, superior brands; cool ALE,
drawn from the wood.
THOS. HILLIER, Proprietor.
ROBINSON’S FITZROY HOTEL,
WILLIAM STREET,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO.
ALL THE BEST BRANDS OF ALE AND PORTER,
Is PER BOTTLE.
lEIBH AND SCOTCH WHISKEYS, 4s per BOTTLE,
all round.
U.B. —Cockburn’s Grape (POET WINE), 15s. per
Bottle, especially for invalids.
English, Intercolonial, and American Papers filed.
Thurston’s Best Billiard Table, in one of the best
fitted rooms in the colony.
POOL EVERT EVENING.
Hotels, &c
FOSTER’S Bugle Brand.
Hotels, &c.
IN
HOGSHEADS, QUARTER CASKS,
AND CASE.
HIGHLAND
If
■
f
AGENT—GEO «G 1 LLOYD,
BRxDGE STREET CHAMBERS.
c
OOLALTA WINE CELLARS,
119 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN A. WILKINSON begs to inform the Public
that owing to the increasing demand’ for his Wines, he
has taken the above
CENTRALLY SITUATED CELLARS.
Although the principal business will be transacted at
the above address, the CELLARS at the A.S.N. Co.*s
Wharf, Circular Quay, will bo retained for
WINES IN LARGE BULK and for SHIPPING
TRADE.
•a* Having arranged with his brother (Mr. WM.
WILKINSON, late Manager of the Kirkton Vineyards)
io act in conjunction with Mr. D. MURRAY, in
Sydney, he feels confident that, with the assistance of
the above-named two experienced gentleman, all
favours will be attended to with the utmost prompti-
tude.
W 1
'ILLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
vringer, £4 10s
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn-shellers,
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
Ac., Ac., Ac.
S. HEBBLEWHITE,
416 GEORGE STREET.
AJ. H U P T O N,
• WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER,
636 George-street.
Four doors from Liverpool-street.
WATCHES and JEWELLERY Repaired on Premises.
All Work Guaranteed.
The original and genuine Jewellery Sale is still pro-
ceeding at A. J. HUFTON’S. A rare opportunity for
intending purchasers wishing to moke wedding presents
or other gifts to their friends.
A splendid Stock to choose trom. No pu£f I Come
and see for yourselves.
Note the Address —
A. J. H U F T O N,
636 George-street.
T
HOM AS
WEBB
&
BOND-STREET,
SONS.
Beg to inform their customers that they have JUST
OPENED a LARGE CONSIGNMENT of
BREAKFAST,
DINNER, and
TEA SETS.
Also,
FANCY CHINA
ANL
GLASSWARE.
Inspection invited.
8
ASHES GLAZED ON THE SHORTEST
NOTICE.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
IHOP FRONTS GLAZED WITH BEST
7 BRITISH PLATE GLASS.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
BRITISH PLATE AND SHEET GLASS
I WAREHOUSE.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent|House, 869,George-street South.
"p APERHANOINGS WAREHOUSE.
Q. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 Qeorge-street.South.
w
HITE LEAD, OILS, COLOURS, CEMENT
&0., &c.
G. F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 839 George-street South.
LATE GLASS. PLATE GLASS.
GEORGE F. MURPHY,
Regent House, 869 George-street South.
Hotels, fro.
The compagnoni catering company
OF PITT-STEEET have much pleasure in an-
nouncing to the public, that to remove the difficulty of
want of space to accommodate their patrons during the
Luncheon hour, they have converted their splendid
Banqueting Hall into an additional Luncheon Saloon,
which is now open, and where every attention will be
directed to visitors patronising this new addition to the
premises.
The Billiard-room, with a sttperior “ Alcock ” table,
is under the management of a first-class marker. Every
branch of Catering undertaken, and a newly organized
Staff of experienced and polite waiters engaged.
Through continued misrepresentations the Company
beg to mention that they are not in any way connected
with any other person, or persona, in Sydney.
SAMUEL PACK HAM, Manager.
NOW OPEN,
THE
(Jity (Jateeing (Company,
315 GEORGE STREET,
(late Harris’ Caf<i, opposite Peapes and Shaw’s).
A superior CAFE and RESTAURANT for Gentlemen.
REFRESHMENT BOOMS for LADIES,
and for
Gentlemen accompanied by Ladies.
The GREAT WEDDING CAKE ESTABLISHMENT.
Birthdav Cakes, Christening Cakes, and ornamented
CONFECTIONERY©! the purest description.
GUARANTEED that no dangerous colouring matter
or ingredient of any kind injurious to the health is ever
used in any goods prepared by us. •
The CATERING and management undertaken for
Balls, Banquets, Dinners Weddings, Picnics, Luncheons
Tea Meetings, and all kinds of demonstrations.
Civil and attentive waiters always on hire.
(jHAS. R. gMI T H,
MANAGER.
OLEY’S NATIONAL HOTEL.
BRIDGE STREET,
(Opposite Bulletin Office.)
R. W. FOLEY, PROPRIETOR.
BOARD AND RESIDENCE.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands.
BILLIARDS.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS’S PALE ALE,
The Celebrated
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The Purest Stimulant
Tho BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
YIRGOE, CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
mm.
vStMDYdn
It is of the utmost importance that contents of each
bottle should be carefully compared, as large quantities
are being imported into New South Wales in .small
bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should compare
LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of the
other brands, when they will find a difference of at
least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGHLAND
WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON,"AND CHAPMAN,
AGENTS.
JP MARTIN AND C
AUSTRALIAN WINE MERCHANTS,
AND BEER BOTTLERS,
105 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
0.,
LIST OF WINES IN STOCK,
Prices from 12s to 42s per dozen,
ALBURY WINES.
PORT MACQUARIE WINES.
Burgundy.
"pALLON’S PRIZE ALBURY WINE.
J. T. FALLON’S in asking public attention to his
WINES, and to the awards gained by them, begs to
intimate that he holds very large stocks of all varieties,
and the public may rely upon getting any given sample
and in almost any quantity.
Central Depot:
91 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vineyard:
MURRAY RIVER VALLEY, near ALBURY,
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Dhese Wines were awarded first-class Prizes at the
following Exhibitions: —
London International 1862
Paris 1864
Vienna ~ ••• 1873
Philadelphia ~ 1876
llso at the various Intercolonial Exhibitions of Vic-
toria New South Wales. Qceensland, and 10 FIRST
CLASS, and 2 SECOND CLASS at the SYDNEY
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 1879-80.
WHITE. RED.
Trialing Aucarot I Shiraz Hermitage
Verdeilho Brown Muscat Carbinet Malbeo
Tokay , I Burgundy
Champagne, Medium Dry. Champagne, Dry.
LATE AND SHEET GLASS.
LEADS, PAINTS, OILS, VARNISH.
PAPERHANGINGS
(a really splendid stock).
ROOM and PICTURE-FRAME MOULDINGS.
KENT’S BRUSHES.
GOLD LEAF, &o.
ALEXANDER BORTHWICK, 281, GEORGE-ST.
Thr JMame of M. MOSS & 00.
I* on every Genuine Bottle
r is not the clearness or condition alone of Bull Dog
Ale that preserves this brand first in public esti-
mation. Common bitter crude beers are made very fine,
but no other brand has tho same mellow vinous charac-
ter, the fulness on the palate, and the great beeping
qualities of the Bull Dog Alo. Consumers are there,
tore cautioned against traders who tor the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred to as
equal in quality to the Bull Dog. J. R. CATTED!, and
CO., Sole Agents.
OS
mah
B
OAR’S HEAD STOUT.
This favourite brandjof
STOUT
!■ selected with great care from the best of the brew-
ings of the celebrated firm of ARTHUR GUINNESS
ind CO., Dublin, and therefore cannot be excelled.
To be Procured Everywhere.
J B. CATTED!, and CO.,
Sole Agents.
THOMAS WEARNE,
ENGINEER & IRONFOUNDEB.
MINING, TRAM, and RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK,
GIRDERS,
STOVES,
COLONIAL
OVENS,
DEED
,BOXES,
&e., &c.
8 ; SUSSEX STREET, & GLEBE FOUNDRY.
Office and SHOW ROOMS, 220 PITT STREET.
FIRE
AND
UURQt.AR
PROOE
SAFES
ASD
DOORS
ESTABLISHED 1837.
POTTERY
AND
BRICK WORKS,
OAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Hookings & co.’s ow
Australian Wine strengthens the
syst e m against infections diseases.
Opposite Citt Bank, PITT STKEET.
1
Money.
U
NION LOAN AND DISCOUNT COMPANY
OFFICES : 760 GEORGE STREET (first floor),
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons,
Hours —9 to 5.
MONEY ADVANCED upon PERSONAL and other
security, payable by instalments, as follows;
£lO by weekly instalments of ... £0 6 0
16
20
(10
0 12
1 0
1 5
25
30
60
And in due proportion up to £lOO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To borrowers not able to transact business during the
day, the offices will be open Monday and Saturday even-
ings, from 7 to 9.
760 GEORGE STREET, first floor,
3 doors from A. Hordern and Sons.
T
O SMALL FREEHOLD AND LEASEHOLD
PROPRIETORS.
MONET LENT on mortgage of properties, in sums
of from £5 to £5OO, upon the weekly, monthly, and
quarterly repayment system.
Money lent on deposit of deeds, without the necessity
of a mortgage for short terms.
Apply to the Manager, UNION LOAN, MORTGAGE,
and DISCOUNT COMPANY, 760 George-street, Hay-
market.
ONDON
MORTGAGE, LOAN,
DISCOUNT BANK,
AND
109 ELIZABETH STREET SOUTH (next St. James’
School).
FIRST ESTABLISHED IN SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
The Directors place before those desirous of obtaining
advantages upon easy terms—UNEXCEPTIONABLE
advantages. Their method of transacting bussiness is
highly commended, CONCESSIONS being granted
which no other office holds out.
ADVANCES MADE UPON
BILLS OF SALE on furniture, without possession,
from £5 to £10,000; SURETIES, Mortgages, Leases,
Deeds, Stock, Merchandise, Bonded Certificates, Annui-
ties, Personal effects, Ac.,
AND UPON ANY REASONABLE SECURITY.
N.B. —Promissory Notes, Acceptances, Ac., DIS-
COUNTED daily.
Repayments by WEEKLY, MONTHLY, or
QUARTERLY instalments; or as will suit CONVE-
NIENCE of borrower.
All communication and interviews regarded strictly
confidential.
FORMS GRATIS —Address, THE SECRETARY,
London Loan and Discount Bank, 109 Elizabeth-
street South. Office hours, 9 to 5 p.m.; Monday and
Saturday evenings, 6 to 8.
Loans granted without delay, at
moderate rates, on all kinds of security. Repay-
ments to suit convenience of borrowers. CENTRAL
LOAN OFFICE, 96 Castlereagh-street. next corner
King-street. Established 1859.
lANOS. AMERICAN ORGANS. MUSIC.
MUSIC.
AMERICAN ORGANS.
P
PIANOS.
J. MASSEY and SON
beg to inform their friends and the general public that
they have opened those premises.
No. 10 PARK STREET,
as a
PIANOFORTE, AMERICAN ORGAN, and MUSIC
WAREHOUSE.
The stock of instruments now on view and unpacking
is selected from the best English, German, and French
factories, representing, among others, such firms as
Erard, Broadwood, Muller, Board, Auoher, Ac.
American Organs by the Best Makers,
J, Massey and Son offer all these at a liberal discount
for cash, or they may be had on the Time-payment
ByStem ‘ MUSIC. MUSIC. MUSIC.
The latest music always in stock.
J. MASSEY and SON,
PARK STREET, SYDNEY.


"THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
theatrical profession.]
The Grenfell Record has evidently been
hard hit bj the “ perfesh." In a par. it says ; —“From
this date, all theatrical Advertisements will be charged
double r ites ; and, unless the companies are favourably
known to us, the money will have to be put down in
advance Paragraphs concerning the merits of the
entertainments will have to be paid for at the rate of
3s. nn : nch. This is a purely business notice. When
the public want to go t o the show, it must put down its
money for a start. When a show wants to go into this
paper, it will, for the future, commence by putting down
the coin.” The Narand*.ra Argus thoroughly endorses
this, and odds “ Whilst the above papers were about
it, thev ii ivht h: vi included some of the itinerant den-
tists, who ids) go ab mt the country neglecting to pay
their printing bil s, and also those doctors who are not
registered, as we have some painful recollections of
these individual .” After this, any pro., dentist, or
doctor who comes to our office to advertise on the
“nave-,” had better insure his life on the road The
arraignment 1 e ween Messrs. J. C. AViliiamson and
AllUou as to the conjoint working of the Theatres
Boyal, Melbourne and Adelaide, does not come into
operation until July next Baker and Farron’s new
piece, “ the Emigrant,” is much after the style of the
old ones. It contains a fire scene, abduction, and, of
course, a we di.-g and happy denouement, with the
usual songs and dances Mr. James Carden has filed
his sob duleat Melbourne. Debts, only £B6 135.; assets,
£2l. Da Lias, of Auckland, is the principal creditor
W. H. Leake and J. J. Wallace were the recipients of
“bens.” when at Christchurch Bessie Vivian was
Sut up in the part of Queen in Leake’s “Hamlet” at
hristcliurch Louise Pomeroy has some of the
finest “ wall paper ” ever seen in Maorilaud, so says a
correspondent. Josh Pickcrsgill engineers her through
that colony The Invercargill (N.Z.) people wanted
Cary to visit them, but he preferred good houses in
Dunedin to uncertain ones in Southland, and refused
to move without a guarantee K. W. Cary was not
able to appear iu Dunedin lately for several evenings,
owing to indisposition The Press people in Christ-
church, N.Z., have a creditable dramatic club. They
lately gave two most successful performances in aid of
the Ltttletom Times Sick Fund. “Our Girls” and
“ The Contested Election ” were put on. Among those
who assisted were Solauge Navaro, and Mrs. Walter
Hill. H. S Towle led the orchestra Lieut. Herman,
the ventriloquist, and Logan, of panorama fame, are
trave lin,'in Auckland (N.Z.) country districts. The
latter h is styled himself a “ Professor,” and does
sleight-of-hand business Mr. and Mrs. Hart lately
playid at the Theatre Royal, Wellington. N Z Mrs.
George Cotterell (one of Madame Carandini’s
daughters) rc< cutly gave a concert at Wellington, N Z.,
assisted by amateurs '.Mrs. Fred. Marshall may be
looked for in Melbourne about the 25th September
Lvons’ Pleasure Party did well at Wellington, N.Z.,
and at latestdiites were showingat Napier; Auckland to
follow. The only new and clever “ act" in the pro-
gramme is raid to be Amy Horton’s, the business and
mnsio of the rest of the troupe being musty with age.
It is much regretted in Maoriland that Lyons has
such a poor ci o vd under his wing Fred. Marshall
benefits before he leuv< s Auckland. He made a big hit
in “ Quilp.” Kohler’s Waxworks was lately exhibited
at Sloan’s Theatre, Invercargill, N.Z Lotti Wilmot
has be-.n lecturing iu the Patea district A. T.
Dunning, the lessee of the Queen’s Theatre, Dunedin,
N.Z , h s settled the “Pinafore" copyright question
by laying £25 to Gillon, Williamson’s agent. The
Lydia Howorde Co., who performed, have not defended
their ojnduct; and as the time for pleading has gone
by, judgment can at any time be entered against them.
M . Kelsey, of Dnnedin, gives Saturday afternoon
conceits there fortnightly, Herr Benao Scherek being
among the performers. Bays one of the papers:—“ On
the occasion of the lost concert we had to comment on
Mr. Scherek’s infringement of the rule printed on the
programmes: ‘No encores are allowed’ It now
appears that he is the only performer who is to be
encouraged wi'h the honour of an encore, so we would
suggest that on the programmes be printed, ‘Encores
do be awarded to no one t ut Mr. Scherek."’
Hnverly’s Mastodons, with Billy Emerson to the fore,
drew Vug houses at the Bush-street Theatre, Frisco
Only fancy! Teddy Davies “throwing his voice" at
that high-toned house, the Bella Union, San Francisco.
And vet it is a tact A new theatre, to hold over
eighteen hundred people, is to be built at Auckland by
Mr. H. N. Abbott, the well-known promoter of “con-
sulfations,” and will be called the Wellesley-street
Opera House. The “perfesh” will be exceedingly
glad to hear this, old Shylock having had it all his own
way in that town for some years. Unless managers
chose to accept his terms, they had no alternative but
to play in an unsuitable hall or not visit the place. It
is expected the Opera House will be ready for opening
in February next The Lydia Howarde Co. lately
appeared at Wanganui, N.Z. Business poor. Refer-
ring to “Chilperic,” one of the prints there remarked
that it was simply ridiculous for a company, consisting
of four ladies, two gentlemen, and a pianist, to venture
upon such an emasculated version of “Chilperic” as
was produced Stephen Massett has composed two
new songs, and set them to music The honorary de-
gree of LL.D. is to he conferred upon Irving by Trinity
College, Dublin J. B Howe recently benefited iu
London. He advertises that he is under engagement
to appear at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, in February
next Gordon Gooch proposes to form an amateur
opera company at Auckland Lucy Ashton, travel-
ling with Bandmann’s Co., is a blood relative of the
poet Shelley Edith Adelle has been ill in Auckland
lately, and was unable to appear for a time In one
of the Dissenting Churches, in the Christchurch (N.Z.)
district, lately, a concert was announced. The trustees
would not consent to the holding of the entertainment,
until they saw the programme. The reason, according
to one trustee, was that it was suspected that readings
were to be given from Shakspeare, and that, of course,
could not he tolerated for a moment Gilbert and
Sullivan are already at work on another comic opera,
which is to b« called “The Princess." Inif, professional
beauties are to he satirised. De Lias, of Auckland, got
judgment for £5O (the full amount claimed), and costs
£6 13s. against Carden for breach of agreement at
Wellington Cole’s Circus, when last heard of, was at
Arizona At Christchurch, in “ My Partner," Leake
played Joe Saunders, J. J. Wallace Josinh Scraggs,
and Theo. Hamilton Major Henry Britt. Theo. also pro-
duced “Kerry Gow" during the season H. F.
Towle and amateurs produce “Madame Favart” at
the Oddfellows’ Hall, Christchurch, the first week in
November Tom Hargetts and John Howe have been
travelling in the various country districts around Auck-
land, N.Z,, with an entertainment called “An Hour
with Chart's Dickens.” Signora Majeroni is now
engaged iu the State Combination Co., N.Y Allison,
of Adelaide, goes homo shortly to secure novelties for
himself and J. C. Williamson. By the way. Bland
Holt his arranged for “The World" to follow “The
Pirates” at Adelaide Blondin is in Berlin Ada
Ward is in Paris Jennie Lee (“ Jo.” of “ Bleak
House”) is playing iu America, en route for Australia.
. Fred Lyster has been laid up for a month in New
York, with gout A “ Charles Dillon Testimonial
Fund,” in trust for Mrs. Dillon, has been started in
London. Mr. W. Creswick is one of the trustees
E. T. Stetson’s visit to Australia has been abandoned.
Not for nearly thirty years have the amusement
advertisements in the Melbourne daily newspapers
occupied less than half a column, which was the case
the week before last Bent and Bachelder’s newly-
organised Christy Minstrels have left Melbourne for
N.Z. The company comprises—Messrs. Bent, Beau-
mont Roed, T. S. Fredericks, W. Ball, E. Rowley, the
Hugo Brothers, and Miss Amy Rowe Charley Walsh,
one of the few remaining actors of the old school, who
supported Barry Sullivan in Australia, is back in Mel-
bourne again. He has now quitted the sock and buskin,
and lect-ures on temperance Anecdote told about J.
A Hooper, who suicided in N.Z. the other day by
hanging “ He was playing with Mr. Dampier at the
Princess, Dunedin, in ‘ Faust.’ At the termination of
the play’ Mr, Hooper, in the title role, was of course
consigned to infernal regions by Mephistopheles (Dam-
pier) Ho tried to descend through the ghost-trap, but
bis figure was too robust, and he became fast round the
waist. In vain Faust wriggled, while Mephistopheles
“became exasperated and threw his tail about wildly.
Peals of laughter from the pit put the ‘star out of
patience, and pressing his knee on the broad shoulders
St poor ‘ Johnny,’ he fairly forced him down, and the
curtain fell amidst screams of merriment. .. ....
The OUver-Seagrave Co. were to close their Charters
Towers season. Sept. 10, with “ The Devil’s Punch
Bowl." There was a good house for Mr. Seagrave s
benefit Lynch Bellringers at Townsville. Biz. good.
Professor Anderson’s case came off at Brisbane on
the 6th. “No appearance, your worship.” A clear case
of “ now you see me, and now you don’t see me." The
Wizard passed through Brisbane en route for the South
the day before At Brisbane, the Wybert Reeve
company have been more than fairly successful in
drawing houses. Mr. Reeve’s Count Fosco was much
admired. He has since produced “ Diplomacy,”
“ George Geith,” and “ The Crushed Tragedian.”
Miss Annie Mayor, and Messrs. Cates and Forbes are
established favourites in the capital of Bananaland,
the inhabitants of which have for some utterly unac-
countable reason, nick-named Wybert, "Dismal." The
«gag" is “My deah fellah, have a glass of bittah
beah?" Scene, Stage, Brisbme Theatre Royal;
time, rehearsal. Crushed Tragedian, loq: “At
night,- Mr. Poole, I am heah and you are theah.”
Irrepressible Sam: “No d feah.” General
collapse. "Cleah the stage." Fact Some-
thing akin to a sail, impromptu, was perpetrated in
the Theatre Royal (B ,) the other night. The audience
called forth Mr. Wybert Reeve. He came. Then
Miss Mayor. She came. Clamours still. Cates
appeared, and passed away. Encore. Forbes showed
tip. Hilarity and applause continued. Hesford bowed
his most affable stage managerial bow. Encore. The
prompter and “ splodger ” were waiting their turn,
when it was discovered that the " unbounded ”
applause was occasioned by the eccentric gestures of a
gentleman in the dress circle, who was frantic with
delight at each appearance. " Oh, what a fall was
there, my countrymen I ” Benhamo’s cirque, at
Carcoar, the other day, of which Mellifluous Mart
observes, with her wonted acumen:—"The wonderful
pitch of training to which the horses of the troupe
have arrived, was the theme of admiration; but one of
the chief wonders was the appearance of Mdlle.
Duvalli, the female Hercules, who, besides allowing
herself to be drawn up to the apex of the marquee by
her teeth, played such feats with a chair in her mouth,
as made many of the spectators feel very uncom-
fortable." And so we get it Clara Hamilton gave
her Italian entertainment, “ Twa Oors at Hame,” at
Newcastle, to a large audience, at the Theatre Royal
on Friday last. The Newcastle Herald gives Clara a
column, and calls it a “ hasty critique.” Miss Amy
Thornton, who has lately joined the ranks of the
vocalists of Hobart, is possessed of a very sweet
voice Signor Lardelh, late organist of St.
Matthias’, Paddington, is now organist of St.
Mary’s, West Maitland The Maitland Philhar-
monic Society intend giving a concert shortly
Professor Rice, at latest, was at the Mechanics’, Laun-
ceston, Tasmania, Biz. good Herr Bandmann
opens at Melbourne Opera House on October 1, when
he will appear as " Narcisse.” John Dunn, father of
Mrs. Marcus Clarke, left his manuscript autobiography.
Jefferson thought he was dying when in Melbourne
eighteen years ago, and is still of the same melancholic
temnerament Mrs. Scott-Siddons is expected back
in Melbourne next year The Brooke A. D. Society
were last night (Wednesday) to give a farewell benefit
to Mr. T. Fowler prior to his departure from Mudgee.
A report was widely circulated on Tuesday to the
effect that Mr. Sam. Howard, the actor, had died sud-
denly up the railway line. The rumour, which natur-
ally caused intense distress to Mrs. Howard, who was
in town, proved to be utterly foundationless.
• * •
It is said that Irving applied the pruning-knife
so liberally in Tennyson’s “Cup,” that when the author
saw the piece in rehearsal, he objected very strongly.
"Why, we have to out down Shakspeare, rejoined
Irving. But the poet only sighed Vieuxtemps told
this story so often that he got to believe it himself
He was passing over London Bridge, and saw a poor
devil jump into the water. Thera was at once a cry:
" I’d bet ho drowns." " Take three to one he don’t.”
" Done." Vieuxtemps hurried for a boatman, and went
to the assistance of the drowning man. Then there was
a roar from the bridge : “ Leave him alone I There's a
wager on it .” The boatman laid down his oars. Vieux-
temps was forced to see the man drown Webb, and
Trotters’ Royal Marionettes were at latest doing good
business in Hamburg The first performance of " H
Rinnegato" at Her Majesty’s, London, with Mdlle
Juch in the role originally intended for Mdlle Gerster,
was attended with almost disastrous results. The
opera was a failure, two-thirds of the audience leaving
after the second act. In the third act, there is a snowy
landscape—of course made of cotton wool —and a ghost
scene. The wool caught fire, causing a great blaze ;
the ghost and teuor, who were on at the time, putting it
out Charley Reed, formerly of Simonsen’s Fro-
liques, is on the road in the States with Hyde and Ben-
ham’s " Muldoon Picnic Co." In the big Pennsyl-
vanian railroad smash, Ella Chapman and Topsy Venn,
of Rice’s Surprise Party, were seriously injured.
Johnny Gourlay missed the train and saved his life.
Irving has secured the right to play Wills’ “ Olivia,”
and it is thought it will be revived at the Lyceum next
winter, with Ellen Terry in the title role, Irving as
the Vicar of Wakefield .Fred Lyster was to com-
mence touring America with “ Loyal till Death ” on
16th August Coveut Garden theatre has been bought
and is to be worked by a limited liability company, Mr.
Gye to manage at a fixed salary During the run of
w The Professor ” at the Madison-square Theatre, New
York, visitors find a fragrant bouquet attached to the
house programmes Queen Victoria placed her box at
the Royal Italian Opera at the disposal of King Kala-
kaua, and her carriage to take him to the hotel from
the opera Jenny Lind lives in London, and is worth
£200,000 What a time theatre-goers are having at
’Frisco. We read that at one of the houses there was
being presented a “ new grand melange of fascinating
bon-bons,” and in addition, “ The Lovely Blonde or
the Miser’s Pet”—a true picture of Parisian life and
intrigue, illustrating the life of a beautiful variety
actress, both before and behind the scenes, and in her
daily life—a life of perpetual excitement, showing her
many trials, and finally her fond realization of blissful
happiness. This beats “Olivette.” According to
the decision of a Kansas judge, both husband and wife
are entitled to enter a place of amusement on a ticket
reading “Admit one.” Henry Irving has recently
achieved the unprecedented task of playing Hamlet 200
consecutive nights in one season Mile. Sala, a niece
of Alfred de Musset (who in one of his poems made
allusion to the wonderful vocal gift she possessed in
even her earliest years), is about to diibfit in London.
Rumour says she will be the first real successor to
Malibran The great tenor, Mario, is now living in
retirement at Rome. From 1839, when he made his
diibfft, till 1871, when he retired, he sang 931 times in
all William Yardley, the famous University cricketer,
has entered the arena of dramatic authorship, and bids
fair to make a name forhimself in his new profession.
Dr. Simms says Wigzell’s baths (Oxford-street)
are the best he has seen in all his travels.
Five thousand corpses are annually conveyed to
the New York morgue. Drink is the cause of four-fifths
of the deaths.
M. Bessieres, of the late firm of Provost and
Bessieres, the fashionable hairdressers, of Melbourne,
has died at Pan, Prance, of apoplexy.
One member of the Commons objected to capital
punishment because it was irreparable. Mr. Newdegate
r t rted that an irreparable punishment was appropriate
to the commission of an irreparable offence.
Bough and illiterate squatter has a new cook,
who serves up the mutton with caper sauce. Enter
the boss, with big appetite; enter, also, the cook
with the mutton. To him the boss : “ What the L d’i e
shug ’Olloway’s pills on top of the bilod mutton hr i"
Speaking of the annual Eton and Harrow
cricket match as it now stands, “Atlas,” in the World
gayB Por if the greasy open-air orgy into which this
match has now degenerated is indeed a characteristic
illustration of life among these sections of our Eng-
lish community, it seems ns though there should be
more truth than one has hitherto been willing to sup-
pose in Mr. Matthew Arnold’s fearful denunciation of
our upper class as * materialised and null,' and our
middle class as ‘ purblind and hideous.’ A * dear
duchess,” flushed with the unwonted noonday grape, is
certainly not a lively object.” The “ Upper Ten ” are
certainly “ going the pace" ‘‘across the pond,” but it
this hypercritical Mr, Atlas finds such open-mouthed
fault with a “deah ” but “ drunken duchess,” what in
the name of sulphur would he say to the spectacle of a
drunken larrikiness polluting the air with her blas-
phemies, as she reels along half nude at a—well, let
us say at a super-oesthetioal English cricket match—or
as “Atlas" delicately puts the case himself, ‘‘at a
greasy, open-air orgy ?” And what would ittcost the
World to print pars like the above in this enlightened
| colony f
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“ Madame Favart,” long heralded by the in-
genious ads. of the versatile Goodman, made her first
bow to an immense crowd at the Theatre Eoyal on
Saturday night. The audience was one which may be
aptly described by that delightful colonial idiom,
« rekerkey"—the collection of “ bungs" in the dress-
circle being exceedingly varied and excessively exten-
sive. Vice-royalty, in the distinguished person of
Gussy, junior, gleamed like the morning sun in
“Jack’s" box, and we are pleased to be able to record
that varied as has been our experience, both of theatres
and theatre-goers, we never saw a gentleman embellish
a box with a larger extent of shirt-front, or a bigger
pair of binoculars. Immediately underneath, in a cosy
“ baignoir" was more of the aristocracy in the person
of ithe modem Achilles and terror to burglars,
Mr. Reginald Bloxsome. In connection with the
box occupied by this patrician party, we beg
to call the attention of the management to the
precarious condition of the centre chair. The back is
apparently so insecure that the genial private secretary
was obliged to keep his arm on it during the whole
evening to prevent its giving way altogether. A big
slice out of the upper crust was present. We noticed
Sir Patrick Jennings and Lewis Scott, Mr. Justice
Windeyer and Mr.l Evening News Davies, Mr. Daniel
Cooper and Mr. Tom Price, and many other curled
society darlings. The habitats mustered in great force,
and the display of white ties and threepenny flowers
was of a particularly dazzling description. Now for
the opera; and, as it is all or nearly all Laverne, we
must, of course, be more than ordinarily Patticular.
• # #
In “ Madame Favart ” we get more of Offen-
bach —a composer, by the way, who has been, of late, so
frequently before us—that it would not be out of place
to call him Offenbach in a double sense (but no
matter!), more of those gentlemen whom the D.T.
last week facetiously termed “ Chiyor and Darn,” and
more excellent French done into moderate English by
—we again quote our esteemed contemporary—“ H. E.
Famie." The plot is ‘ xoeedingly ingenious, and quite
moral enough for any one that is not studying for the
Church, and far too puritanical for either a Town Hall
contractor or a Sunday school teacher. The music is
delicious—full of catching airs, and rhythmic melody,
—but Mr. Habbd’s scenery was neither very original in
design, nor very harmonious as to colour. This was
the more noticeable, as, of course, it challenges com-
parison with the superb work of Mr. George Gordon in
“ Olivette ” which proceeded it.
• • •
The part of Madame Favart, sung by Mias
Pattie Laverne, is, in all respects (no joke intended), a
French role. Essentially protean, it is an impersona-
tion which taxes the energies of the performer to the
utmost. In this opera, Miss Laverne comes out of her
shell in a surprising manner. Although the whole
weight of the piece falls upon her rounded little shoul-
ders, she never for an instant flags in her merri-
ment, or allows fatigue to deaden her energies. Her
success was complete throughout, and the spectator is
enabled by her interpretation of this most arduous
part, to properly gauge the extent of Miss Laverne’s
abilities, both as an actress and as a singer. We
always admitted Miss Pattie to be a clever little lady,
but certainly we never gave her credit for possessing
the amount of chic and elan which she has most un-
doubtedly exhibited in " Madame Pavart.” In short
(and now, sweet Muse, tear yourself away; from Lewis
Scott for one brief instant—thanks!) —
There’s the rhythm of sweet music in her laugh ;
There’s a sunny sort of sparkle in her chaff:
There’s a —why enumerate,
When we only want to state
(And condense) —
From the summit of her crown.
To her shoes, much lower down,
She’s immense I
m *
Mr. Fred Mervin’s rentree, of course, excited
some attention, since that gentleman is so popular
with all classes—from the tobacco-chewing pitite to the
Darling Point princess. He, of course, played Charles
Favart, and very funnily he played it, too. He would
have sung the music beautifully also, only, unfortu-
nately, Mr. Mervin’s voice has temporarily left him,
Fred can certainly sing after a fashion, but when we
hear him so hoarse, we feel ravenous for those dulcet
tones (now possibly lingering in the neighbourhood of
the Hawkesbury) which formerly enslaved us. How-
ever, his cold is mending fast. Mr. Merviu was
very amusing, and his efforts were liberally applauded.
As the footman in the scene with the Marquis de
“ Ponstablo” (we again are indebted to the columns of
our illustrious penny morning contemporary) he dis-
played comedy powers of a very hign order, and his
facial changes were exceedingly skilful. In a word,
Mr. Mervin made a most excellent Charles Pavart, and
his representation of the character will be little less
than perfect the moment his voice arrives from the
Hawkesbury.
• • •
Mr. Harwood as the Marquis de Pontsable, a
giddy old boy of Louis Quatorzean period, was inimit-
able. Ho has evidently made a careful and intelligent
study of the part, the outcome of which is a stage
impersonation of very distinguished excellence. His
make up is most artistic—indeed, he looks for all the
world like a St. Cloud picture of a royal duke that has
stepped out of its frame. Mr. Brennir’s Hector de
Boispreau was, so far as the singing is concerned, satis-
factory ; but we consider his acting inferior to that of
the late Charles Mathews. Mr. Brennir makes up in
every piece as Mr. Brennir, and takes little or no
trouble, so far as we can gather, to for a single moment
sink his own Identity- We are, of course, very fond of
Mr. Brennir, but we like the opera a little bit also.
m « •
Mr. Grundy played—once more, dear D.T., we
will borrow from you—Major “Cortignao." a bluff old
officer, whom ho made, perhaps, bluffer than was quite
required. Mr. G. sang fairly, but in the dialogue used
too many expletives. Indeed, we might say that he
was as full of dams as a Dutch canal is of dykes. Miss
Nellie Stewart was a disappointment as Suzanna, and
never manage 1 to get the hang of the character, whereby
much of the tun of the piece was spoiled for the audi-
ence. Mrs. Levison looked charming as Madame des
Ablettes, and the string of Minnies, Adas, Julias.
Maggies, and Ethels looked as winning as usual, and
picturesquely exhibited the customary amount of
poitrine and mollet. Mr. Wallace, we may remark, has
only a small part—that of an innkeeper—and only ap-
pearing in the first act, has no chance of making a
hit. He has plenty to do, however, in looking after the
stage, and the manner in which the piece has been pro-
duced speaks largely for his administrative abilities.
» • *■
Mr. Van Ghele had hia orchestra thoroughly
under control, and conducted with skill and judgment.
“Madame Pavart” should prove a great card, and we
hope in two months from this to find it still running,
and to still see the Musgrovian smile in all its delicate
beauty.
* * * *
What was the matter with the Herald’s
musical critic last week ? At Wilhelmj’s concert, on
Wednesday, Wagner’s “ Prize Song,” fromthe “Mcis-
tersauger,” was substituted for Schumann’s “ Evening
Song,” but Granny’s virtuoso never “dropped." If
they had slid in “Little 80-peep" instead, doubtless
the fact would have been duly chronicled, and we should
have had the customary “guiver” about the “note of
passion ” and the “ blending of the harmonies.” If you
go in for doing a thing, do it properly. That's why we
like Alfred’s critics. They are, anyway, straightfor-
ward. They don’t individualize, but jumble up the lot
in a heap, and say that Wilhelmj “took well,” that M.
Vogrich “ played his tunes with his usual effect,and
that Miss Couron “ gave xdeasure to all.” This is
honest, and what is more, it’s — cheap.
* * * *
D’Arcy Read’s “Ghost” resurrected itself on
Saturday night last, in the Victoria Hall. The spectre
could scarcely have shown worse judgment or better
taste. There is nothing gloomy or horrible about the
Victoria Hall, which has been re decorated and re-
seated, and is now as bright and cheerful an apartment
as there is in Sydney. D’Arcy Bead’s “Ghost” is
evidently a fastidious spirit, and imbued with modern
ideas. A tumble-down ruin, a mouldy cellar, or even a
second-class graveyard would have been good enough
for its ancestors (has a ghost ancestors ?)
# * #
An adaptation of Garnet Walch’s burlesque,
"Beauty and the Beast,” formed the opening piece.
The Oriental Merchant—apparently in the small coal
line, judging by his hands—who is father of Beauty,
was personated by a lanky gentleman, in a costume
which gave full display to ancles which might bo useful
—as pipe-cleaner—abut which could hardly be regarded
as ornamental. The ghostly effect in this performance
consisted in the visions shown by the Beast —which was
a. low-spirited monster, apparently weighed down by
anxiety concerning the management of its tail—to the
Merchant. The only occasion when the Boast appeared
at all inclined to levity was on its first entrance, when
it seemingly struggled to keep its countenance—on.
In the end it changed, spectroscopically, into the Prince,
an alarmed-looking young man, who evoked from a lady
in the stalls an opinion that, all things considered.
Beauty ought to prefer the Boast.
# # *
The performers were not at their ease, and found
some difficulty in making their voices heard; and, with
the exception of little Annie Bead, who danced in a
style which gave promise of future excellence, might
with advantage have been replaced by others of higher
standing in the profession. “ Beauty and the Beast ”
was followed by a tableau vivant, which the D.T. terms
“The Watery Nymphs,” and the whole closed with
“ The Haunted House,” a weird performance in which
the Ghost had better scope for its traditional antics. m
* * *
Mr. Eead contemplates producing a new piece
shortly, in which the little lady aforesaid is to be the
heroine. He will do well to put it on as soon as possible.
Meanwhile, we recommend those who love a bit of fun
to pay Mr. Bead a visit.
** * *
For the Marcus Clarke benefit the management
of the T.E., Brisbane, ask £35 for ex.’s and a solid half
of the plunder. This is rid-Hickey-lous. The John-
sonians perform, and there is a rumour that Bobby
Byrne is to play Timon.
** * *
We are sorry to hear that Fred Marshall is a
comparative frost in New Zealand. Fred a frost —only
fancy ! We wonder how many more years it will take
for the lingerers in Maoriland to get civilized ?
** * *
Ben Allah, the original Fakir of Ajmere, writes
to say, through Mr. Harry Moss, that he is at Tenter-
field. Tenterfleldians ! hang your banners on the out-
ward walls 1 Whoop 1
** * *
Jem Ashton is still going it. At Windsor he
made a grand splash, and Young Jem after his first
round on the bare-backed untamed steed of Tartary,
completely enslaved the hearts of the ladies. Professor
Pearce’s dawgs knocked the sawdust out of the clown
for humour, and the Japs, balanced themselves on
clothes’ props and swallowed boarding pikes with their
usual skill. James is doing well, and he deserves it.
Beady with those hoops there ? So! Houp-la!
** * *
“ Fatinitza ” at the Opera House is undoubtedly
the best pieee yet produced by the Kelly and Leon
Opera Company. When we say “ best ” piece, we are
not necessarily speaking of the opera pur et simple,
since Herr von Supp<?’s work is, though tuneful and
lively, far inferior to either “ Les Cloches" or " GiroflA”
in a musical and even in a dramatical sense. But the
company, considerably strengthened and augmented,
have put their hearts into the production, and the
result is that the whole thing is as merry as a marriage
bell. Mr. Wilson’s scenery is beautifully painted—the
camp set being, in every sense, quite a triumph of the
scenic art. And the costumes are fresh and appropri-
ate ; those of the ladies of the harem being particularly
picturesque. The groupings were managed with great
skill, and the various situations led up to with a com-
pleteness of detail which spoke of long and arduous
rehearsals.
* # # 1 1
Mr. Kelly’s Count Timofey was a most excellent
performance. His make-up was perfect, and he sang
the music in very fine style Mr. Lester played a war
correspondent of the New York Herald, and suc-
ceeded in living to the public the popular idea of a
pressman, yiz., a meddlesome blusterer, all “pitch”
and note-book. Mr. Stuart Bolton enacted the Lieu-
tenant Vladimir, who dresses up as Fatinitza, and
very well he managed it; only it was rather difficult to
reconcile the fact of the General being taken in so far
as to make love to a lady with the voice of a tenor*
ro baste. Mr. T. Holt made a capital Captain Vasil, but
Mr. Martyn O’Hagan, as a comic sergeant, was only a
little bit more fanny than a railway accident. Our old
friend, Bartoleomotti (we breathe again!) was all there
as a Cossack, and Mr. Gas. Dignam played a Turkish
Governor so naturally that the fragrance of the Otto-
manio weed seemed to be borne upon the breezes when-
ever he appeared.
• * •
Mias Wangenheim infused great spirit into the
part of the Princess Lydia, and sang the music artisti-
cally throughout. One word before closing. We
attended the theatre on Monday night, and, for some
inexplicable reason (for the performance is a highly
attractive one), there was a wretched house, only a few
being dotted about the dress-circle, while the stalls
were equally badly attended. Yet, in the Telegraph,
on Tuesday, we read the following * Fatinitza ’ was
once more performed at the Opera House last night in
the presence of a very large audience.” This, for
breadth, depth, width, and.general massiveness of con-
struction, is the most comprehensive fiction we have
heard this season.
** * ♦
From a cbi-arming letter, received from a
charming woman, we hear that Miss Pomeroy opened
at Dunedin, in “ Cymbeline,” to a crowded house on
September 3. The lovely Louise, and her faithful
Josh, nearly got drowned in landing, but luckily
escaped with a—how appropriate is the word in con-
junction with Pomeroy the precious—ducking. Henry
Beaumont is in advance, and the public support is not
behind. Cary has put on “ Les Cloches ’’ with Leaf
at the Queen’s. Eesult, we perceive by the papers,
“ multy.”
** * *
The benefit in aid of the widow and orphans of
the late James Booty comes off at the Queen’s Theatre
on Friday night. Dick Thatcher, who was an old play-
mate of the dead man, has the matter in hand and has
wheedled the theatre out of the management and Mr.
Dewhurst, and roped in the Lytton Ametenr Dramatic
Club, besides perpetrating some poetry for the occasion.
Dick seems terribly in earnest about the ben,, and it were
as well it should be a good one, or he will be round
tomahawking and slashing everybody.
** * *
“The Pirates” is the rage in Adelaide, and
J. C. contemplates producing both “Patience
and “ Billee Taj lor” before he leaves. The dresses
for these two operas arrived by the Liguria, and are
said by Williamson to have cost £2 lOO. We thoroughly
believe this, and if the “ very much travelled” would
only endorse'the statement, we would swear to it. A
hundred or two makes no difference to John Stofel,
for whom, as has been previously remarked, Australia
has been discovered by Captain Cook.
** * *
In Melbourne, Martin’s “ Ostracised” was repro-
duced for a few nights at the Princess’s ; but although
every thief and rough that could beg, borrow, or stew
six pence crowded into the pit, the theatre closed its
doors last Saturday. By the way, the author, Mr. *•
C. Martin, is a member of the Age staff, and has tne
honor of being the brother of Mrs. Wheeler, the strong-
minded lady who runs a paper at Castlemaine. tree*
Marshall takes possession of this house in a week or
two, when he opens in ‘ Betsy.” “ The World is st
running at the Eoyal, and at the Bijou, the Card
have been playing in “ Extremes" and the “ Streets
New York” (encore I grand Dieu). They are to be_io ••
lowed Iby a Juvenile Tambour-Major Company.— pro-
fessor Anderson opened at the St. George’s Hau
Saturday last, and, as usual, gave away a few moles a
a coal mine.—ln a few days Kowalski will proao .
“ Vercingetorix” with Boema, Signori Coy. and R 1
oardi. And that’s about all. _ , _ rTT nTTE ,
UN SANS CULOTTE.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The shearing is now in full swing again up the
■country; the pheep are fleeced first, and the shearers
immediately afterwards This is the seas n when the
honest publican gets the "shearer’s bottle" ready
under the counter, and when he sees a little cloud of
dust drawing nearer along the winding track, calls out
to the "stringer”—just brought up from town for the
season —“ Come into the verandah and smile, Mary
Ann ; here’s another cheque-man coming.”
* • *
The Gundagai Times is one of the smartest
of country journals. “ What’s the reason ?’’ oar 50,000
-readers ask. pantingly. Le void : —The editor uses a
steal pen—that’s to say a pair of sheep-shears—on The
Bulletin.
* * *
The magnate of—well, Croagingolong—was in
his “study,” engaged in writing a letter to the Premier
to request that a sum of money be put on the estimates
■for anew pump, when entered to him a small but hard-
working tradesman "What can I do for you, my
man?” said the mighty up-country magnate, with
dignified condescension. “ Why, you can send me
better milk,” replied the visitor sternly'.
* • *
A grand fancy dress ball took place at a certain
• Central Queensland sugar-growing town, a little while
ago. A local storekeeper, whose wish it was, of course,
to appear as a king, and an ancient one at that, pro-
cured a most gorgeous dress, and thinking it a pity that
so much meney should be spent " for one night only,”
decided on giving a ball himself. He consequently
issued cards of invitation to all his co-religionists,
with a polite request that each should come in fancy
dress. Now, the wife of the storekeeper prides herself
on being above the common herd, so much so that the
kanaka boy from the kitchen was dressed up in the
master’s dress suit —for one night only, of course. A
bottle of eau de Cologne was sprinkled over him, and
he was put to act as page and announce the guests.
When the auspicious evening came, the storekeeper,
gorgeously arrayed as King Solomon, was sitting in
state awaiting his guests 9 30 struck and only about a
dozen had arrived, allot whom were in evening dress.
During the next half-hour seven more came, these too
were all in evening dress. The King began to look
savage and the hostess anxious—when in rushed Richard,
the I page, with " Oh ! Massa ! Missus 1 plenty fellow
sit down along a garden—that one no dress um like
It nother fellow, but altogether like it that one long a
Town Hall (Theatre), and when mine been tell um that
me Massa no want ’em you—you go away, that one
altogether sit down long a garden.” The storekeeper,
in anything but a regal style, went to the front door,
and there were all the expected guests in a most indig-
nant state waiting to be let in. The fact was Richard the
page, did not understand the fancy dresses, and would
not admit them ; and he was quite right, for in one
instance, if report speaks truly, a lady was so scantily
dressed that she could be described as having nothing
before and nothing behind, and sleeves of the same
material. That kanaka had to look out for a fresh
situation.
mm*
Civilization has gone ahead in Wombat. They
have improved there upon our rococo modes of intro-
duction. When a young gentleman meets a young
lady whom he thinks will suit him, he waits until she
has passed, then aims a pebble at her bonnet. If she
shakes her parasol, and cries—" I’ll knock your bloom-
ing hat off,” he knows it is " right,” and " hooks on”
accordingly; if, however, she mashes his hat in with a
brick, or breaks his nose with a waddy, he begins to
have a faint glimmering that he has struck the wrong
party.
* # *
Monday’s Herald has the following : —“ The
old favourite nautical drama, 4 Black-eyed Susan,’ con-
eluded the programme, and gave a good opportunity to
Mr. J. B. Steele and Miss Marion Medway to display
their ability.” This is not very elaborate criticism, of
course, but it states a fact, and in doing so the paper is
unconsciously funny. Mr. Steele did not appear that
night.
• • *
“ L.” has sent us a contribution which, as it is
out into lengths, he no doubt looks upon as poetry.
But it is not poetry. He initiates the plot in the follow-
ing rhythmical lines: —
“ Beneath the shade of a myall tree.
Whose beckoning branches invited him to rest
From the noonday heat, he had lain him down.
Sooth’d by the murm’ring song the myall toned;
His senses steep’d in the soft perfume it shed.
The waving branches fann’d his soul to sleep.
To wake no more," &c.
We don’t know whether “ L.” ever saw any myall trees,
but as a rule they do not throw any more shade than a
wire fence. But the question is what did " he ” die of ?
It seems he had iust “lain him down” to rest from the
noontide heat, but there is no reason shown why he
should not have got up all right when he became a bit
cooler. However, he did not —for we find that his life
ebbed away as "his head sunk down on the stones.”
Now, here again there’s a little confusion, because he
is under a myall tree, and we don’t believe anyone ever
saw a stone near a myall tree in his life. On proceeding
further, we find “ he ” was a digger, engaged " in the
feverish search for gold;" though this fact is upset just
afterwards by our poet apostrophising the dead body in
these touching words:—
" Who knows but its mission was mercy and grace—
A sick comrade to succour and cheer,
Nought of its hist’ry now can we trace
For there is only his boots and his bones.”
We don’t think poetry is your forte, " L." In future,
just write straight along—spell as well as you can—
don’t gouge out all the “ e "’s and substitute apos-
trophes when your verbs are in the past tense —and
don’t chop your lines into uncertain lengths, because it
wastes the paper. Pay attention to this advice, and
write us again in about eleven or eight years, so that
we may see whether you have improved,
• • •
The Brisbane correspondent of the Four
- O’CLOCK Fly-paper relates, with great gusto, a wonder-
ful anecdote of how Prince George pulled the tail of
one of Sir Arthur Kennedy’s Chinese servants. He
says : —“ We fairly shrieked with laughter. It is too
bad to tell tales out of school, but like the tail of the
Chinaman, it is there, and it is irresistible. We swear
by George now.” " We fairly shrieked,” eh ? Surely
the professional Melbourne slobberer cannot have—but
no ! We last heard of him doing another butler’s pantry
peep at a party in Prahran, Then, what manner of man
is this, who fairly shrieked, and who swears by George,
simply because a small boy gave a tug at the tail of a
Chinaman ? Anyhow, he has shown that he was at
Government House while the youngsters were there.
That’s a feather in Alfred’s cap, and no mistake. By-
the-way. Alf., old boy, next time you drop the man who
swears by George a line, ask him what kind of plate
powder they use at Sir Arthur’s. We should like to
know.
• * •
That journal “ of high literary distinction,”
which has made a splash in a neighbouring colony,
says that a man tried to blow out his brains by point-
ing a pistol at his shirt front. We wonder, now, if the
gifted editor wanted to blow his brains out, at what
part of his anatomy he would point the pistol. Possibly
at his coat-tails.
* • •
The family were all out of town, and the wretched
man (a well-known lawyer and legislator) was left alone
with his servants. The moment the " missus’s ” back
was turned, the domestic economy of the mansion
commenced to get rather mixed. When the master put
his boots outside the door, they were either cheerfully
ignored or else they were taken away and returned to
him as dull as a fog and as sticky as a fly-trap. The
housemaid grew ®sthetic after the third day, wore a
hunch of roses in her bosom, and took to bathing exactly
at her master’s time. The handy-man took to drinking,
and at two o’clock one morning his master was knocked
up by “ a party from the station,” with a request that
he would get up forthwith and bail him out. The cook,
having only a bachelor to do for, sent up under-boiled
potatoes and hard-boiled eggs. Each of his chops looked
like a “ corner-man ” outside and like a butcher’s shop
inside. His coffee was of the consistence of tea; his
tea of the consistence of coffee. When he looked at his
®°up, he could see his face in it; and the flesh of his fish
»was fibrous. When ten days of this sort of thing had
elapsed, the master of the bou-e rang the bell after
breakfast one morning, and summoned the cook. He
had resolved, at least, to get rid of her. “ Sarah, he
began, in rather quivering tones, “ I am going to take
the liberty ” Hardlv had he pronounced the word
than she flew to the bell rope. “ Lay so much as a
finger on me, vou old willau, and I’ll call the police.
Four hours afterwards the master of the
house was com f ortablv located at his olub,_ and the
servants (including the cook, whoso place is now a
fixture) were on board-wages.
We don’t put this in our “Social” columns,
although it is essentially a social item. There was a
wedding at Charters Towers (N.Q.) the other day, at
which the knot was tied by a Bishop, and the proceed-
ings were of a moat gorgeous character: fresh boiled
shirts amongst the male guests being de regueur, and the
ladies to a woman being resplendent in bronze shoes
and hook-muslin. During the breakfast the bride-cake
was covered by a mosquito-net veil; but, on the toast
of the bride being proposed, the local bellman dexter-
ously whipped off the covering, and hanging on the top
of the four -storey cake was a blue banner, upon which,
in letters of gold, was emblazoned the following :
Fair bride and bridegroom, this we say s
” We wish to yon, who will be roaming.
Both happy returns of this bright day, _
And happy returns, too, of the gloaming.”
* • •
“ What are your qualifications for the appoint-
ment ? ” enquired the managing proprietor of a Sydney
journal to a touzle-headed individual who had come
after a billet. “ I kept a saw-mill in Queensland, please
sir,” replied the applicant. “Oh, very well,’’ said the
managing proprietor, 11 you’ll do for our flne-art editor.”
The other day a Sydney firm of confectioners
sent in their bill, with a request for a settlement and a
fresh order to an old gentleman who had never been
very celebrated for his religious proclivities. The
answer they received was from a stranger, and ran as
follows :—“ Mr. Blank is dead. The only thing he is
likely to require in your line now will be —an ice."
• * •
BUM PUNCH.
The Bum begins to praise the Punch,
To try and make it hum.
'Tis right there should be sympathy
Sincere 'twixt punch and rum.
# * *
At Wombat, the inhabitants are of such a
sweetly social, domestic, and tranquil disposition that,
whan one of them gives a party, special constables are
sworn in, and the Permanent Artillery told to hold
themselves in readiness. (At the last conversazione,
given by a gentleman who benefits humanity bv splitting
palings, to all appearance things passed off with an
h armoniousness bordering upon the ideal; but at the con-
clusion of the festivities, just as mutual congratula-
tions upon the unwonted peaceful state of affairs were
being exchanged, the scene assumed a new aspect on
account of one of the local barbers tumbling over the
top of the blacksmith’s skull, and the top of a team-
ster’s ear being discovered by the hostess on the ball
room floor. Wo hear that a matinie musicals is on the
tapis at Wombat, and therefore we daily expect to see
tenders called for arms and amunition, and a par. in the
Ltre announcing that it will publish a special edition.
# # #
IN MEMOEIAM.
Fun (Price 3d )
AGED, A FEW NUMBERS.
Alas! that we, with scalding tears scarce dried,
Should have to wail. O Fun, thy fun’ral song 1
Yet who can wonder that thou shouldst have died
When thou hast slept so soundly and so long ?
# # *
In Melbourne, when fat women who keep public-
houses go to fancy-dress balls, their favourite costume is,
strange to say, that of Marie Antoinette. When they sit
still in a corner behind a cactus, you can forgive them ;
but when they emerge from their retirement, and roll
through the Lancers, one is apt to yell for the resusci-
tation of Sanson, and look back with tenderness on the
memory of La Vengeance.
A little while ago, a house down Woolloomooloo
way was haunted. No sooner had the family all re-
tired to rest than sounds of a person tramping about
with thick boots were heard, and not unfreqaently in
the dead of night blue smoke enveloped the family
four-posters, and luminous bodies exploded in mid air
in the hall, causing some confusion amongst the hats
and umbrellas. This continued for many months,
until, at last, reduced to desperation, the head of the
family consulted the police. The of this was
that an active and intelligent officer one night went to
bed with his boots on, and his truncheon under his
arm, in the room next to that occupied by the heads of
the family. All was quiet until one o’clock when there
was heard a bang and rumble as though the devil and
John Davies were playing ten pins on the top landing.
Creeping up stairs, the constable turned the corner and
started back in surprise. A tall, gaunt figure, was
dancing round a tin plate upo i which smouldered some
preparation that emitted a thick green vapour. He
was armed with an Indian club, with which he thumped
the floor now and again with <l-un miacal energy. Bush-
ing forward, the gallant const able raised his truncheon
—there was a dull thud, and the ghost tumbled head
foremost into his incantation fire, and cannoning
against the wall, crashed through the bannisters and
fell gently into the hall After the doctor
had cemented his skull togeth-r, spliced his collar-bone,
and set his left ankle, they s raped all the phosphorus
and ochre and blue paint off his face, and there was
discovered the landlord. " What hive you been play-
ing these pranks for ?” enquired the tenant, thrusting
the prostrate man’s right thumb back into the socket.
The landlord gave a groan. “Oi couldn’t frighten yez
out o’ the rint," he faintly murmured, “so I thought
Oi’d frighten yez out o’ the House." That family now
live rent free, and the landlord takes his daily exercise
in a wheelbarrow.
It was rather funny at that inquest on the drown-
ed seaman, when the jurymen adjourned to view the
body, to find that the undertaker had carted it oil to the
Necropolis. It was, however, brought back, and
•‘ tumbled out on the table in a state of nudity." Well,
we don’t know what people have to complain of. The
body had no shroud, certainly, but—but there was a
coffin.
* * •
The charge was “ attempting to commit sui-
cide,” and it was heard at the General Sessions.
« Remember, gentlemen of the jury," sapiently re-
marked his Honor (Judge J ), “ the prisoner is
only charged with the attempt.”
tt * •
In noticing an unknown publication called the
Town and Country Advertiser, the eccentric printer
who gets together a little pale sheet called the
Hawkbsburt Chronicle, has the following“ That it
runs along smoothly on a very equable_ grove (sic),
steering pretty well due north all the time.so as to
keep out Scylla on the one hand and Charybdis on the
other, is pretty evident. It is as respectable as a Paro-
chial Board, and consequently, we shall never expect
to see it sail up King-street in company with The
Bulletin." The Chronicle is in its 31st number, and
from its excessive pallor appears fast going into a
decline. The principal items of interest in the issue
before us are—an article on “ Currant Worms," an ac-
count of an Orange meeting, a par. on the registration of
dogs, the,blatant doggerel we have alluded to elsewhere,
ana some bald-headed rot labelled the ‘‘Scavenger." And
this is the paper that talks about our geing up King-st. t
However, we don’t bear any ill-feeling. So, when the
editor’s hired girl has got the mangle in use for the family
wash, and ho can’t machine the paper, we will send up a
couple of boys with six red bricks and a garden-mower
to help him get the rag out.
According to the Manning Rivkb Times, a
resident of the district bet a farmer’s wife a new dress
to a cake of tobacco that he would eat at one meal four
goose eggs, weighing each 16 oz. The artless bucolic
print from which we quote naively says: “ The feat was
accomplished, and deserved a leather medal, as they are
said to be equal to twenty-three hen eggs, which would
be a good meal for one man, especially if there were
chickens in them ” We hope the editor doesn’t take
his chickens in the half-shell.
* •
IDEALISTIC—WHO IS HE P
Oh, ev’ry grace the gods bestow,
Sits mingled on his classic brow I
In ev’ry charm of rhythmic voice.
This godlike hero does rejoice 1
Soft lines of perfect symmetry
On his angelic form you see I
So white those teeth, that they do gleam
Of Orient pearls a double seam!
His little twinkling feet do skip
The “ guttah” with a fairy trip;
And as yon mark his face so fair
You vow you see a halo there;
Who is this prodigy, you ask p
To breathe it is an easy task—
Come, Slaves! bring here a golden throne.
And set upon it M’Elhone.
# # #
A man named Stigglea, who was residing with a
dusky beauty named Topsy, the belle of the Timbarra
Eiver, got into a row with a Chinaman, whom he
“belted with a waddy." Topsy was one of the wit-
nesses for the defence, and gave her evidence beautifully
for Stiggles, saying that the Chinaman had struck him
first with an axe. In short, all went on swimmingly for
the prisoner until the concluding period of her depo-
sition, when, with charming ingenuousness, she said
“ Prisoner told her what to sa i at the Court, when they
were riding in." Stiggles then got six months, which
was a lenient sentence, considering his name alone
ought to have got him five years.
• * •
The heaviest soldier in the British army,
Roberta, is an Irishman. The champion pedestrian of
the world, O’Leary, is an Irishman. The champion
oarsman of the world, Hanlau, is an Irishman. The
champion swimmer of the world, Boyton, is an Irish-
man. Further comment is unnecessary. Some peo-
ple think that Adam was an Irishman, because he was
an evicted tenant.
# # *
The morals of the community up Grenfell way
appear to be rather more than excessively lax. In a
case of abduction tried there, it came out in the evidence
that the mother of a child aged 12 asked a married man
to retrain from visiting at her house and paving his
attentions to the little girl, “ because people talked so."
The man got 18 months, and the mother—her expenses.
# * *
All Sir Henry Parkes takes for breakfast is a
cup of tea and a bit of toast, thickly spread with
Heraldic jam. This is served him by his orderly. Hia
lunch and The Bulletin are served by the messenger;
while he takes the Freeman and his gruel from hia
butler.
• ♦ *
When Constable Hancock encountered the
"Salvation Army” in Romeo Lane, Melbourne, the
other night, he said, " Who is your leader?" "Jesus
Christ," was the reply. “ Point him out, and I’ll lock
him up immediately,” said the constable, sternly. Han-
cock afterwards excused himself in court, by saying
that he had been educated at a sectarian seminary.
• * *
It doesn’t take much to frighten a Port Macquarie
girl. The other night, in the local Wesleyan Church,
just as the congregation were singing the closing hymn,
someone trod on a lucifer, and the impudent evil one,
whose presence no one had suspected, made such a row
that —we now quote from the M.R. Times —“ the ladies
went off in a fit," and went home in a spring cart. It’s
said that the faint was not a feint. There isn’t much
poetry in going home “in a spring-cart.*’ We further
read that “in the morning a boy also had the mis-
fortune to be seized with one of these painful attacks.
All praise is duo to our local postmaster for the kind
attention he paid to these young ladies.” The Times
doesn't say what this red-tape Samaritan did for the
poor boy.
* • •
Scene, a hop. A couple, the male part of which
consists of a red-faced apoplectic-looking personage
whirl past in the giddy waltz. Eccentric bystander to
lady to whom he has just been introduced: “I really won-
der who that lobster-faced idiot may be ? Do you know,
Mrs. ?" To him, the lady: “That, sir, is my
husband." Eccentric bystander, unabashed : " Ah, in-
deed t Now, pray tell me, Mrs. ,is he like that
all over?"
# * *
Economy is no doubt a virtue, but it may be
carried too far. For instance, the better half of a cer-
tain worthy member of the Tasmanian Assembly, in
order to save washing bills whilst in Hobart, performs
the family wash at the lodgings and hangs the apparel
out of the windows to dry, much to the amusement of
the cabbies ou an adjacent stand. A clothes line, it is
thought, would prove a valuable addition to the
establishment,
• * •
The force of solemn dulness surely can no
farther go. Thus that estimable journal, the Preset-
teexan: —“ Will some of onr musical readers answer
the question put by a correspondent in the issue of the
25th June P He mentioned that he could not sing well,
and wanted to know what he should do in such a case,
when taking part in public worship." We should say,
*• a correspondent" ought to " shut up."
Some of the crew of the barque Eden, which
has arrived at Melbourne, from Chinese and Japan
ports, are suffering from beri-beri, a non-contagious
disease. The Berry-Berry complaint i» contagious in
Victoria,
• * •
In Sydney one can get a nobbier of brandy for
3d. There are about 18 nobblers in each bottle, which
is thus retailed for, at the most, about 4s. 6d. Yet you
can’t buy a bottle of tolerable brandy for 4s. 6d., nor
can you got a dozen of tolerable brandy for 545. Where
does the publican’s profit come in P
If
The blankets supplied to persons under de-
tention at the Quarantine Ground are of the same
quality as those provided for distribution to black
gins. Now, putting the matter in the mildest possible
light, isn’t this rather rough on the gins P
V.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
The Freethought Association of Dunedin, N.Z.,
are building a handsome Lyceum.
The Rev. Mackenzie Fraser (Presbyterian), late
of Geelong, has decided to settle in Auckland, and has
taken a charge.
The Rev. Dr. M'Gibbon will, in the opinion of
the doctors, have to take several months* rest before
resuming work.
Rev. V. W. White shows that the percentage
of criminals in four Irish counties stood thus:—Homan
Catholics 24 above, Episcopalians 4 above, Presby-
terians 28 below.
It is said by the Belfast Witness that “ in
some of the congregations of the Irish Presbyterian
Church, the rite of baptism has not been publicly ad-
ministered for a generation.’*
The will of the late Pope Pius IX. has been
proved. His Holiness divides the bulk of his property
into thirds—one-third going to Luigi Mastai, one-third
to Ercole Mastai, and one-third to Anna Arsill, daughter
of Virginia Mastai.
“ A Month’s Mind ” in memento of the late
Bishop O’Quinn, will be held at Brisbane. The
Bishops of Tasmania, Bathurst and Qoulbum. with a
large gathering of the subordinate olergymenof N.S.W,
and Queensland will attend.
The Diocesan Synod, at a meeting in Christ-
church, N.Z., petitioned against trams being run on
Sundays. Some members contended that the differ-
ence between running a tramcar and using a private
carriage on Sundays was only a question of degree.
Some curious statements are made in a letter
addressed to the Protestant Standard of 17th Sep-
tember respecting certain moneys collected for Pastor
Chiniqny’s “ Mission.” By the way, we’ve never yet
heard where Chiniquy is located when he’s at home.
Apropos to the successful canvassing visit made
by Bishop Staunton, of N.Q., to England,—result,
£5OO0 —it may be mentioned that at home they call
colonial bishops who visit the “tight little islands,"
and seek donations for their diocese, “returned
empties.”
The other day, the ex-Khedive of Egypt visited
the Pope. The Holy Father shook bands with the ex.
Mussulman King, who gave him a polite invitation to
spend the summer at his enchanting villa La Favorita.
The Pope was a little embarrassed, but after bestowing
a smile on his royal visitor, thanked him, saying that
the morale of St. Thomas did not permit him to accept
the invitation.
The Rev. Mr. Ware (Anglican), of Young, and
his congregation are at loggerheads. A meeting had
been convened for the other evening to elect a lay repre-
sentative to the Goulburn Synod. Mr. Ware didn’t
advertise the meeting in the papers, .nor affix a notice
to the church door —he merely announced it from the
reading-desk. On the evening of the meeting he had a
nominee “ readied up,” but was rather astonished to
find several of his parishioners waiting for him in the
church. It is alleged that the rev. gentleman declined
to allow any one to speak, threatened those present with
Supreme Court proceedings, and finally left the meet-
ing in a huff, after vainly attempting to declare his own
nominee elected. The parishioners present then held
another meeting at which they elected a representa-
tive. The war has been proceeding for some time.
Some members of the congregation are taking steps to
bring about Mr. Ware's removal.
SIR JO.
Your explanation is too thin,
Sir Jo.
All read it with a hearty grin.
You know;
And all consider quite
That the trap did what was right,
Understanding he’d to fight
Such a great forensic light
As Sir Jo.
It follows then, of course,
Great Sir J&,
(You may helloWftu you’re hoarse.
Don’t you know ?)
But that peeler is a chap
That’s a proper sort of “trap,’
Though he don’t care a rap
For Sir Jo.
You wrote to get him taken back.
Sir Jo,
While smarting ’neath the sounding smack,
You know.
The result is that Mulquin
(Who has scored a pretty win)
Can afford to have a grin
At Sir Jo.
Hal ha! ha I hat
“RUSH BEAT POWER BY FOUR LENGTHS.”
Oh, mystic gentlemen aquatic.
Who scull o’er waters muriatic,
■Whose lives and talk are flnvlatic,
(That’s a good name!)
Although we are genethliatio
(This term is super-idiomatic).
We wish to ask, in terms emphatic.
Tour little game.
When Micky gave " the giant ” his gruel
(We wish to feed no angry fuel
Or hazard a remark that’s cruel).
With joy we panted.
When Pearce and Power did the iriok.
And gave a gruelling to Mick,
And Laycock licked the lot so slick,
We were enchanted.
When Rush and Power once more met,
And Power 11 crumpled up ” did get.
We merely quaffed the festive “ wet,”
And did a " screamer.”
If Power now does Laycock best;
And when the next race all contest,
Pearce proves himself to be the best—
We’ll —buy a steamer 1
’Tis droll to see those fat old girls
Do a romantic pose—
Their hair done up in powdered curls—|
Unconscious of glucose.
'Tis droll to mark each facial smirk
Of that travestied lot;
Oblivious, as around they jerk,
Of porter or " rum *ot."
Though horny-handed with the pull
Of many a pint of beer.
Of queenly dignity quite full.
Bight royal they appear I
They seldom make mistakes, but yet
'Tis said, the other day.
One, at the buffet, did forget,
And yelled out—“ Who’s to pay ? ’’
A TER-RAGEDY.
There was a certain editor
(We’ll call him Brown for short]
Who bossed a daily paper, and
Was very fond of port.
He kept a bottle in a safe.
Upon whose door, 'tis said.
There was a placard—" Look not on
The wine when it is red.”
He’d writ a temp’ranoe article.
And so great was the strain
Upon his mighty intellect,
He panted for a “drain.”
So straightway to his safe he went.
And seized a glass and bottle;
Filled to the brim; then smacked his lips
And poured it down his throttle.
And then within that mighty pile
There such a yell arose.
As though a man in agony
Were “ turning up his toes.”
In rushed a hundred scribes as he
Upon the ground did sink —
He’d missed the proper bottle, and
Had drunk a pint of ink.
TEMPERANCE TRIUMPHANT; OR. THE FEAST
OF THE BULLDOG ANTS.
[‘‘The bones of a digger have been found close to an
ant-hill, on the Palmer Biver. He had apparently
lain down there while drunk, and had his body
stripped of flesh by the ferocious ants, for a half-
empty bottle of rum was by his side.*'—North Queens-
land paper.]
Prom the woods of the wattle and gum—
From the shades of a forest serene—
Comes a tale of a bottle of rum.
And a rest on the grass that is green.
A swagman, he drank—ha ! ha I
Till down on the grassy sward.
As happy, he sank—ha! ha 1 —
As any sesthetioal lord.
And he dreamed, this Australian “ bloke,’*
Of a shanty he’d left at his back.
Of rum, and the strongest “ she oak
The original gum-eplltter’s tack.
But, alas! this poor wayfaring man
Another sensation soon felt —
A creeping and crawling, which ran
From his “ cady ” right down to his belt;
And he chuckled out loud in his glee,
For he liked such a queer, funny feel;
And great as a monarch felt he,
From the crown of his head to his heel.
But, hurrah, for the temperance ants!
Like the bears from the wood did they come,
And they ate him outright—but his pants.
And the half-empty bottle of rum.
There’s a whisper about in the trees.
That the 1.0.Q.T. “ laid them on,"
And the ants will receive C M Q.’s,
And a present of fruit from dear John.


Tobacconists
J.BVB . TOBACCONIST .149.
JAMES EYE,
No. 149 KING STREET
(Opposite Theatre Royal Stall Entrance).
All brands of Tobacco and Cigars of the best imported.
Pipes mounted and ambers fitted.
149 KING STREET.
EU
RE
KA
T O
AUTION
THE PUBLIC.
THE UNPRECEDENTED DEMAND
for the
EUREKA AND I.X.L. TOBACCOS
Is inducing other Manufacturers to imitaie them.
None are genuine but those bearing the
HEART-SHAPED METAL TAG,
stamped with the words
EUREKA, or the letters I.X.L.
Smokers, ask for the
EUREKA or I.X.L.
MSM
THEY WILL NOT BITE THEJ?ONGUE.
Manufactured by
T. S A T W E L L,
EAGLE TOBACCO WORKS,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
s
71
w
1/
I N
TAG!
T I N
6!
Caution to Storekeepers.
ANYONE selling Tobacco with any Round Tin Tag
other than those hearing onr brands
“ CONQUERER " or “ YANKEE DOODLE **
is infringing our rights, and will be proceeded against
by Law.
We are obliged to give this notice, as a Sydney Manu-
facturer has been sending out one of his inferior hranda
of Tobacco with a Round Tin Tag.
WE HAVE STOPPED HIM.
DIXSON AND SONS,
155 YORK STREET.
TOBACCO SMOKERS,
Note the Above.
N V
?ot>V
W M E ZOLD S
FIRST PRIZE PIANOS.
m
BlhiiSii
PIANOS. PIANOS. PIANOS,
by the very best Manufactures of Europe, sold on the
TIME-PAYMENT SYSTEM,
if required,
AT MODERATE PRICES.
OXFORD STREET PIANOFORTE WARE-
HOUSE,
44 & 46 OXFORD-STREET. 44 & 46,
m
2
0
■'UNADULTERATED •
BAK/NC POWDER
MMMMaßahrl
a
-M-
-EW DAVIS SEWING MACHINE.
AWARDED the ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE
for Sewing Machines, at Sydney International, 1880.
ONLY FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZE and GOLD
MEDAL, at Melbourne International Exhibition,
1881.
FIRST and SPECIAL PRIZES Sydney Agriculture
Show, 1877, 1881. Do., Bathurst, Qoulburn, Mndgee>
Singleton, Windsor, Ac.
ONLY First and Special, Brisbane Exhibition, 1880.
No other SEWING MACHINE received a First or
Special Prize at M elbourne International, all assertions
to the contrary notwithstanding.
B, O. HOLTERMANN AND CO.,
Sole Agents,
674 George-street.
SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN.
The Universal Sewing Machine
Has all the latest improvements. Highly finished. Has the New Automatic Bobbin Winder. Every
Machine guaranteed. Self closing Shuttle Race. Call and see this wonderful Machine.
Sold on easy terms. Can be seen working at the Depdt,
68 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT TO 'BUS OFFCE.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL AND CO.’S
PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
C
M
O
O
O
◄
ft— —
02
tej
o
£>
cj
o
cq
This is the most effectual substitute for kerosene in lighting Country Residences, Churches, Stores, Ac. j is
simple, clean, and durable, and can be made by any intelligent lad with perfect safety.
This GAS is much cl
all smell and smoke. The . .
in some oases almost nil. Seven pounds of Tallow will make 100 cubic feet of Gas.
s GAS is much cleaner and more brilliant than coal gas, and, when properly made, is entirely free from
The expense is entirely confined to the quantity of Tallow used, and wood for the furnace j
TALLOW GAS made with this APPARATUS is used for lighting the Government Railways in preference
to Coal Gas.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS APPLY AT THE MANUFACTORY.
We undertake to make Gas and instruct someone in the process as part of our Contract.
THE "PRODUCER”
ERADICATES SCUEF and DANDRUFF,
Soothes, Invigorates, and Beautifies.
Induces a healthy action of the Skin with-
out the irritating effects caused by
similar preparations, and is pronounced
by both the Press and the Faculty to
be one of the greatest boons ever intro-
duced to the Public.
Soft, Luxuriant, and Plowing TRESS
GUARANTEED.
WHISKERS AND MOUSTACHES
GUARANTEED.
That one single application stops the Hair
falling off in all cases of Febrile and other
Diseases is certified to by thousands, and
GUARANTEED.
Try it, and take none other from your
Chemist.
Retail of all Dealers.
Wholesale—
ELLIOTT BROS.,
PITT STREET.
BALDNESS IS CURABLE !
BY USING
H S. BARROW & Co.’s
“ PYRAMID HAIR PRODUCER.”
“ A great scientific discovery.” —
Vide Lancet.
GALLEY'S TORBAY PAINT,
THE PAINT FOR IRONWORK & OTHER USE,
RESISTS THE FUMES OF SULPHURETTED HYDROGEN. NON-POISONOUS.
EXTRAORDINARY COVERING AND PRESERVING QUALITIES.
IN ANT CLIMATE IT WITHSTANDS THE ACTION OF HEAT AND COLD.
DOES NOT BLISTER, CRACK, OR FLAKE OFF. *
A good Paint is always the cheapest, looking to the fact that the cost of the labour is generally three or four times the
cost of the paint; besides, a bad paint will not last long, and the covering powers of Galley’s Paint are much greater than
any other. r
THE TORBAY PAINT COMPANY,
DEVON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENT FOR THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES—
W. MONTAGU COWARD,
19 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
J 1 H 0 S. J. BOWN & CO.,
ENGINEERS. BEASSFOUNDEES,
Importers of
GAS FITTINGS, GLOBES, SANITARY WARE,
HOSE, &o.
PUMPS OF ALL KINDS, SIZES, AND QUALITIES
PNEUMATIC BELLS AND FITTINGS.
Repairs of every description executed.
107 BATHUEST-STEEET, SYDNEY.
rjIHE INDIA AND CHINA TEA COMPANY’S
Pine Blended Indian TEAS
Are without doubt the PUREST and CHEAPEST ever
offered te the Public.
EVERYONE OUGHT TO TRY THEM.
To be obtained at
705 GEORGE STREET, HAYHARKET.
PROFESSOR WEST’S Limited Adult EVEN-
ING CLASSES, Thursdays, 8 p.m.; Children's
Classes, Saturdays, 2 p.m. j select Adult Classes, Satur-
days, at 4 p.m., at Hall, 344 Castlereagh-street. Pupils
may join at any time. Private lessons on application
Residence, 161 Liverpool-street.
Use Jannasch’s Conserve Salt. Preserves meat,
game, fish, milk, &0., sweet during the hottest weather,
by speedy and simple process ; no deleterious chemical
used. To be had of all grocers and country store-
keepers. Ask for Jannasch’s Conserve Salt.— Advt,
THE KOOKABURRA.
Coalescence—Petroleum.
Ox-hide of beef —Leather.
Our first bet—the alphabet.
The dress circle—A girl’s waist.
A “ Blunt Fellow—A millionaire.
Underground Work—An earthquake.
A torpid liver—a snake in the winter.
A non est man—An absconding debtor.
Darwin says that man springs from the Jelly
fish. Certainly— when it stings him.
A drunkard’s nose is said to be a “light-house,
warning us of the little water that passes underneath."
“ We’ve found the connecting link at last,” as
the two fellows remarked when they were handcuffed
together.
It is said that Sara Bernhardt studied the air
and expression of half-crazed women by going to a
millinery shop and watching them try to select a
bonnet.
Schoolmaster: “Solomon says: ‘Spare the
rod and spoil the child.’” Boy: “Please, sir, is that
in the revised edition?” (Gets his flogging all the
same).
Young lady to ancient swell, verging on the
sere and yellow leaf: “ How old are you, Mr. ? ”
A. S.: “Well, lam 40, look 50, but in your presence I
feel 20!”
A city man went home early the other morning,
and meeting the sad reproachful eyes of his wife, apolo-
gised : —“My darling, I think you’ll be sorry for this
when you get shober.”
Doctors differ. Some say whisky hardens the
brain, others say it softens it. Meanwhile, people
without brains will keep right on drinking it, as it
doesn’t make an atom of difference to them,
Emerson says a man ought to carry a pencil
and note down the thoughts of the moment. Yes, and
one short pencil, devoted exclusively to that use, would
last some men we know about two thousand years, and
then have the original point on.
A wag circulated a report that a certain rich old
farmer had been “running rapidly through his pro
perty.” The farmer called on him to “ retract the
slander,” when the wag said he saw him “running
through his property" with his brindle bull after him.
Feminine tenderness sometimes crops out in
queer places. The widow of a French chemist, famous
for his researches in toxicology, was on trial for poison-
ing her husband. It was proved that arsenic was the
medium employed. “ Why did you use that poison ? ”
asked the presiding magistrate. “ Because,” sobbed
the fair culprit, “ it was the one he liked best.”
In the roadways of life you will find many love-
able souls, many happy ones, and some whose mission it
is to make others happy; you will find the bitter cynic
and the professional dead-beat. Cherish the lovable,
cultivate the happy, honour the humorist, tolerate the
pessimist, but kick—kick as you never kicked before—
kicked as you never kicked behind—kick the dead-beat.
. A gentleman travelling in a railway carriage was
endeavouring, with considerable earnestness, to impress
some argument upon a fellow-passenger who was seated
opposite to him, and who appeared rather dull of com-
prehension. At length, being slightly irritated, he
exclaimed, in a louder tone, “ Why, sir, it’s as plain as
ABC!" “ That may be." replied the other, with
unexpected alacrity, “ but I am I) E F.”
Scene —Public school. Inspector reads from
essay by one of the scholars: “ Pins, tho’ small, are
very useful articles. They have saved the lives of
many men, women, and children—in fact whole
families." “ How so ? " asks the astonished teacher.
“ Why, by not swallowin’ ’em,” replies the bright-faced
boy. (Fact). It was probably this boy’s sister who
described salt as “ the stuff that makes potatoes taste
nasty when you don’t put any on.”,
“ The difference,” said Augustus Millwhiffles,
sauntering into to the library the other day—“the
difference between the works of Captain Cook and the
works of Beaumont and Fletcher is, I presume, that
the former are by a tar, and the latter by-tu-men.”
Before he could cackle, he was seized by the nape of
tho neck and thrust out of the building by an enraged
professor, who said to him, as ho struck the ground,
“Do you know why yon are like Noah’s Ark ? ” “ No,”
said the bewildered Augustus. “ Well, it’s because
you’re pitched without," said the professor, as he shut
the door.
Oh, Paddy, said the father, “ you’re in a
right bad state, ye are," and he raised his eyes
solemnly to the ceiling. " Paddy,” said he, after a
pause, “ ye’re in articulo mortis. ’* “ Faith, yer riv-
rinoe,” said Pat, upstarting, “ I thought I was in
Nick M'Guffln's bed,” The father watched him
earnestly. “ Pat," said he, shaking his head, “ ye're
dyin’, my son." “ Oohone,” said Pat, “ ye're jokin’,
ye are, yer rivrinoe." « Divil a bit av it, mo bhoy."
" Well,” said Pat, “if I die, by me soul, I should like
to be buried in a Jews’ buryin’ ground." “ Pat 1” said
his reverence, starting back in horror. “ Ooh, whist,
honey," said Pat, in a dying whisper, “bnry me there,
for it’ll be the last place the devil will think of lookin’
for me.”
SONG FOR THE SENSITIVE.
Oft on a still, bright summer’s eve.
Through sylvan glades we’d roam.
And watch the trickling rivulet leave
It’s sparkling, pebbly home ;
Or, strolling on the surf-beat shore.
My darling by my side,
I’d breathe again the vows of yore.
Hoping to win my bride.
’Twas Elysian, when her lovely eyes
Looked fondly into mine,
And softly she, ’midst deep-drawn sighs.
Said, “ Dearest, I am thine.”
But soon the transient bliss so grand,
I’d from my thoughts to put,
For when I asked the daughter’s hand
I got the father’s foot.
Flower sermons have become very fashionable
in the old country. Al' the churches in the West End
of London now have them. The children bring their
flowers on a Sunday afternoon* and in the midst of the
service deliver them to. the clergyman in the chancel,
for disposal next day among the hospitals. The churches
present a beautiful sight during the service; in fact,
they look like gardens—of children and flowers.
Eev. Mr. Webster, Presbyterian clergyman of
Wilcannia, was fined 10s, or 24 hours’ imprisonment, on
a charge of having said to Mr. Thomas B. Coe, ex-
editor of the Wilcannia Times, “ You are a mean
fellow.” The rev. gentleman denied using the words
complained of, and went to gaol rather than pay the
fine, which was raised by subscription A big public
meeting, sympathising with him in the position in
which he was placed, was subsequently held.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE.
In Church and in State
It is rule or be ruled j
In courtship and marriage
It is fool or be fooled;
In logic and law
It is nick or be nicke?!;
In gambling or trade
It is trick or be tricked;
In treaty and war
It is heat or be beaten;
In the struggle for life
It is eat or bo eaten.


Chemists and Drr
POTHECAEIE
14 OXFOED STEI
Nbab Hyde Park C
(N.B.—The Tram-car stop
W. D. EAMES, Pi
CHEMIST TO HIS EXCELLED
GOVEENOE,
And one of the Founders of t
Societies of Victoria and New
W. D. E. thanks the public and
for the support hitherto accorded h
Irrespective of Club prescriptior
has dispensed 34,000 original presc
ALL THE LEADING MEDICAL
of Sydney—
FACTS SPEAK FOE THE
Every prescription is CAEEPUI
the BEST DEUGS, copied, number,
sent, if required, to any locality.
INDIGEST
May be easiest cured by the folio
E AMES’S QUINII
Which improves the appetite an
stomach.
E AMES’S DIGE STI
For severe cases where the gastri
and when sickness and flatulenc
EAMES’S COMPOUND ANTE
Which relievo the bowels gently, ai
naturally healthy functions o
organs.
PEICES—I/-, 1/6, 2/6,
PEEPAEED ONLY
W. D. EAMEB, CHEMIST, 1
B
OBEET BDTCI
(Late William Lot
WINE AND SPIEIT ME!
534 GEOEGE STEI
OPPOSITE TOWN HALL,
Couhtbt Obdkbs Ebckivk Peoi
S H
EEIDAN & FU
STOCK AND SHAEE B 1
94 PITT-STEEE'
SYDNEY,
Hekby A. Shkeidan, formerly Ma
mercial Bank, Maitland.
Jaues Fulxfobd, of West Maitlai
Easiness Announcer
Llbgai,.J
SHORTER. FITZGERALD, .
SOLICITORS,
69 CASTLEEEAGH STREET,
and
MACQUARIE STREET, D
Mr. Shorter, Notary Pnl
Legal.— Mr. t. m. slj
SOLICITOR, has comm
practice of his profession, at 18S
PITT-STREET, opposite the
News Office.
W
H. A R
PROVISION MERCHi
AND GENERAL COMMISSIO
343 and 345 Kent-steeet, near
SOLE AGENT for the nndermentione
R, Whittingham fc Co.’s London ]
Geo. Bencraft & Co.’s Victoria Oat
Swallow & Ariell’s Victorian Bisc
Cakes
J. Kitchen & Son’s Victoria Toileti
Dillon & Burrows’ Victoria Conf©
A. M. Hunt A Co.’s Goulbum Bad
Sauce.
343 and 345 KENT-STEEET, near 1
A Y I D M ‘
14, Hunter-street, Sydn
SADDLER AND HARNESS
By special appointmen
To his Royal Highness the Duke o
Excellency the Eight Hon. the
His Excellency Sir Hercules Rob
and His Excellency Lord A
K.C.M.G.
Best Coursing Material of Newest I
hand.
Awarded First Prize for Gentlemen
Agricultural Exhibition, 1868,1870, 1!
£IHEAPEST AND BEST
AT
MARK ISAACS’ CORPOEATIO
HAT STREET, HATMAI
TEA, Is per lb.
Other articles equally cheap
Goods packed and delivered free of
City and Suburbs daily.
COUNTRY STOREKEEPERS LIBE
WITH.
AG. CHURCH
• 147TOEKSTRE
Opposite the Market)
IMPORTER AND MANUPAC
Coffee, Peppers, Spices
CLEVELAND MILLS, SURE
CHEAPEST HOUSE IN
for Liverpool and Black Horse
Choicest Sage and Majoram on hai
680,000 AMERICAN SKE
Just arrived, all siz<
Sole agent for Messrs. OHLAN!
Fork Sausage skins, splendid earn]
Is 6d per lb.
Mutton Sausage Skins, 9d per lb,
Canterbury.
CENTRAL FURNISHING A
BUILDINGS, Nos. 29, 31, and 3
For VENETIAN
TRI
WOR M A
112 OXFORD STE
O T I
CRIPPS’ CATERING C
Having taken those COMMODIOL
door from Hunter-street, in Elizal
PARTIES CAN BE ST
with a
LARGE E 0
for
HOT DINNERS or ME
BALL PARTIES
JfJASTEEN SPECIALITY 1
CABLES AND AN
strongly recommend their r
2s. TEA,
which will be found equal to any
much higher prio
724 GEORGE SQ
HAYMARKET.
P.
R. LAB
Wholesale and Ret
PRODUCE MERC
Comer
GEORGE AND GIPPS E
SYDNEY.
BRANCH STORE!
48 George-street West (late Pan
And
Darlinghurst Road, near WI
Pure Cape Barley, Feed and
P. R. LARK!
Wholesale and Retail Wink and
778 and 780 GEORGE STRE
SYDNEY.
The Bottle Department is replete i
stock of the Choicest Brands of Wii
N.B.—Orders by post punctually a
OFFICE ORDERS payable at Hayn
Ha. a b i
• BOOKSELLER AND I
106 KING STREET,
(five doom FBOH PITT
Every description of Plain and Fa
lowest possible pric
W A TRIAL SOLI
AGENT for Melbourne AGE
Chemists and Dra
CAUTION. —In onr style of
sudden changes of temper)
and sunshine often intermingled
it is no wonder that our child
relatives are so frequently take
lected colds, half the deaths
from this cause. A bottle of Boi
Syrup kept about your home
will prevent serious sickness, a 1
and perhaps death, by the use
doses For curing Consumptic
Pneumonia, severe Coughs, Cro
of the Throat or Lungs, its sncc
derful, as your druggist will
Syrup is now sold in every to
tms continent. Sample bottle
regular size, 3s. Wholesale Aj
BROTHERS.
OGALLALA L
was introduced into L
two years ago, where thousands c
—and one year in Sydney; and som<
of Eheumatism have been cured i
using it.
Old pains of any kind of long stan
Acute Head, Tooth, and Ear Ac
few minutes.
Several cases of Deafness cured hy
HEAD OFFICE
89 WATEELOO-EOAD, I
and
107 CASTLEEEAGH STEEE
S. W. GAMBLE, Proj
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLESALE
STEEET, SYDNE
Manzanita fru
TEY THEM.
The best medicine ever invented f(
Thousands of people in Sydney ha
have been cured of Biliousness, In
ness. Sick Headaches, and all comp
deranged digestive organs.
Head Office: 89 WATEELOO E<
and 107 CASTLEEEAGH STEi
S. W. GAMBLE, Prop
ELLIOTT BEOS., WHOLES
PITT STEEET, SYD
H
ALL OF PH
(Late Felmingham
78 KING STB
Dispensing Establishi
Pure Drugs and Chemicals, Si
Toilet requisites, Ac. Patent Medh
English marked price. All articles
D. HALE, Mi
STEER’S RH
AND
GINGER P:
FOE
INDIGESTI
AND
STOMACH COMPLA
%• They are also much recommei
tive for Females, being safe, gentl
their operation, leaving no disposi)
and bemg free from any tendencj
irritation in their action.
Sole Proprietor and Manufacturer-
F, E. SLOI
DISPENSING ESTABLISHMEN'
OXFORD STREET £
J S. ABRAHAM’S PILLS
THE GEEAT LIVEE E
And successful substitute for Ca
Podophyllum, and all Nozi
Famous as a Eestorative to Healt
Famous as an Invigorator of the i
Famous for the Cure of all Disord
Stomach.
Most famous as the only Tonic
gives cold, and
The most delicate of either sex, ii
TEAMWAT TICKETS. )
POSTAGE STAMPS.
G E O C E E S,
Are acknowledged to keep
THE BEST TEA IN SYDNEY.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE
for
AUSTRALIAN WINES and GENERAL
GROCERIES.
Country Orders promptly attepded to.
193 OXFOED STEEBT
(Opposite Court-house),
DARLINGHURST.


HE INDIAN TEA ROOMS.
PURE FRAGRANT INDIAN TEA,
Fresh from the Girl ns, grown under European super*
vision, and sold in O ■ ginal Packages, 101 b and npwards.
Samples, Press Notices, Analyses, and Price Lists on-
Applic ition.
Special Bates for Large Orders.
A delicious Tea in the cup. No Chinese admixtures.
Goes twice as far as the best Chinese teas.
We challenge comparison with our INDIAN TEAS-
for Leaf, Strength, Flavour, and Analyses, sgainst all
or any of the China teas imported this season.
INGL I S, nTxON, & CO.,
INDIAN PRODUCE MERCHAN PS.
INSURANCE AND GSN SEAL AGENTS,
7 Bridge-street Chambers.
gYDNET LIVE STOCK MARKET.
Having secured the services of Mr. JEFF. BUCK-
LAND, well-known in Victoria and Eiverina as a Live
Stock Salesman, I beg leave to assure my friends and
all interested in the SALE of FAT or STORE STOCK,,
and STATION PROPERTIES, that every attention
shall be directed to this branch of the business ; and I
shall hope for a trial, feeling quite sure that the prac-
tical knowledge, attention, and straightforwardness
which have made my Wool and Produce Business such
a success, will entitle me to the confidence of all who
may favour me with their support.
Sales will be held at Homebush and in the City twice
a week ; allowances made on all Stock or Stations in.
tended for sale, and proceeds of sales handed over twice
a week, or when required on days of sale.
Further information if applied for.
JOHN BRIDGE.
BROTHERS,
14: & 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWAR E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. SORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburgh Pale Alp.
%
Afvl Y JeWeLLEW/\TCIf P/^T
* > ‘T NjADE ' JO * O —«•
pi/UN flfCq DEpICIJf
WALTHAM ENGLISH, AND GENEVA WATCHES.
COLONIAL AND IMPORTED JEWELLERY.
Turret Clocks —simple, strike, and chime.
Spectacles, etc., of aU kinds.
Plain figures—Low prices.
w.
H. PALI
PIANOFORTE WAREHOUSE,
N
352 Georg e-street.
G,
m
PIANOFORTES, PIANOFORTES.
Just Unpacked, a
SPLENDID STOCK OF FIRST-CLASS INSTRU-
MENTS, by
EBARD (Paris and London),
PLEYEL,
• COLLABD and COLLARD,
SOUFLETO,
BERDEN and CO.,
TBOST
AUCHER.
PALING and CO.,
And other First-class Makers, in elegant Rosewood,
Black and Gold, and Walnut cases.
AMERICAN ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
WATERS and SON,
SMITH ORGAN CO*
And other Renowned Makers.
HARMONIUMS,
By Messrs. ALEXANDRE PERE et FILS, and other
First-Class Makers.
W. H. P A L I If O,
362 GEORGE STREET,
OPPO TE WTNYARD SISSIf
SYDNEY.
ROW'S EMBROCATION,
■E* • * B or,
(► - "IParmer’s Friend 1 SIS;
Is the most reliable Embrocation now before the Aus-
tralian public, and is universally acknowledged to be
the best preparation for all cuis, bruises, sprains, galls,
he., in horses or cattle. One trial will convince all
owners of stock that HOW'S EMBROCATION is the
best remedy ever introduced.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC
Beware of spurious imitations. There are many un-
scrupulous persons, who, for the sake of a little gain,
will recommend other preparations. Do not be deceived.
ASK EOE ROW'S EMBROCATION.
Extract of letter received from the eminent veteri-
nary surgeon, Mr. Joseph Armstrong, M R.C.V.S.: —
“ Sydney, 16th April, 1868.
“ I have used Row’s Embrocation for many years as a
digestive stimulant for indolent sores, and a counter
irritant, and have found it a very useful preparation.”
Sold by all druggists and storekeepers throughout the
Australian colonies, and wholesale by
EDWARD ROW AND COMPANY,
SYDNEY.
JOSEFHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT.
THE MOST USEFUL OINTMENT in the WORLD,
Bar NONE.
If THIS OINTMENT is not celebrated for its cura-
tive powers, it must be in those dim regions where the
white man never travelled. On the DARLING, on the
BARCOO, at COOPER’S CREEK, the DIAMANTINA,
and on the hanks of other rivers where scurvy, sores
from poisoned wood, ulcers from contagion and bad
living abound, pots of Josephson’s Ointment are to be
found.
The Shepherd cannot do without it; the Stockman
always has it; the Housewife in the bush is unfit to
discharge her duties in healing the scars and wounds ot
her offspring, and those of her neighbours, unless she
has a pot of JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT.
It has received a name in the POPULAR MIND
that no other Power can weaken.
It is a pure GREEN VEGETABLE PRODUCTION.
The Child as well as the Adult can use it. The Bul-
lock Driver is never without it. The Squatter always
has it in his store. The Selector’s Wife knows its
worth. It cures not only Sores, Burns, and Scratches,
but nearly all kinds of skin diseases. And it is so
Cheap, and can be purchased from all respectable
Storekeepers and Chemists, and wholesale from
EDWARD ROW & COMPANY,
43, 45, and 47 Lower George-street.
Good appetite
FOR BREAKFAST
on the
HOTTEST SUMMER MORNING
may be procured by taking a wineglassful in a little
water of
ROW’S STEANES’
Superlative Aromatic Tonic Bitters.
Invalids troubled with I eranged Digestions may
completely regain their health by taking a few bottles
of this invaluable tonic.
To All who Suffer from Weak Digestion—
BEAD THIS:
To Messrs. E. Row and Co., Sydney—
Some six months since, I waf recommended to try
your STEANES’ BITTERS for a complaint I suffered
from—WEAKNESS of the STOMACH, and unable to
retain any food many minutes after partaking my
meals. I became so bad at last, that I almost gave up
eating anything. I was induced to try then STE A.NEB’
BITTERS. After the first glass I found myself in
better spirits. The comforting influence produced upon
the stomach, seemed at once to stop the sickness. I
continued taking three glasses a day, before meals, till
I finished a bottle, after which, I pronounced myself
onred. I had no return of the complaint till about a
week since, when I obtained another bottle, and am
happy thus to state my belief in them for all who suffer
from such weakness. They are worth a guinea a
bottle.—Yours very truly, Geofok Hollet.
The Faculty have pronounced it the Most Effectual
Invlgorator of the Constitution within their ex-
perience, and celebrated Analytical Chemists describe
It as remarkably pleasant to the taste, containing about
16 per cent, of pure Alcohol, holding in solution a
clear wholesome Vegetable Bitter, combined with a
spicy Aromatic. The highly-disagreeable sensations
that follow an evening’s over-conviviality, will be
removed by an early morning dose of the PUREST
TONIC of the DAY. Then study your own health by
using ROWS STEANES’ BITTERS.
The great demand thronghont the colony for these
pure Bitters shows they are superior to all others, and
equalled by none. Facts speak louder than words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known citizen :
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
“I, GEORGE HEWITT, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare os foLows : —That I feel it a duty I
owe to the public to state that I have been suffering
for many years from weakness of the stomach, so-called
Indigestion or Dyspepsia, and have been cured by my
taking two or three glasses of STEANES’ BITTERS a
day in a little water, and I hope others suffering from
the same complaint will be as speedily cured.
•' (Signed) G. Hewitt, 215 Pitt-street.
“ Declared at Sydney, August 12, 1881, before me,
“ (Signed) W. Henderson, J.P."
Then try them and ask for ROW’S STEANES’
BITTERS, prepared solely by EDWARD ROW and
COMPANY. Cheer up’ and be comforted, all you who
Buffer from Languor, Debility, or ueueral Depression.
READ THIS, FOR IT CONCERNS YOURSELVES.
Government Analytical Laboratory,
Melbourne, April 9, 1869.
I have examined a bottle of STEANES’ SUPER-
LATIVE AROMATIC TONIC WINE, manufactured
by Joseph Steane and Co., and find it to be remarkably
pleasant in flavour, containing about 16 per cent, of a
very pure alcohol, and holding in eolation a clear whole-
some vegetable bitter combined with a fruity spicy
aroma. I consider this hitter a very superior article.
W. Johnson, Government Analytical Chemist.
BOW’S STEANES’ WINE is a safe and sure stimu-
lant for the female sex or children, for it raises and
strengthens depressed systems without producing a
temporary excitement to bo followed by greater de-
pression. Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than try.
BOW’S S r J EANES’ WINE has weaned many persons
from the excessive use of ardent spirits.
No Hotel complete without ROW’S STEANES’
BITTERS, ROW’S YOU’LL-DO BITTERS, ROW'S
QUININE STILL CHAMPAGNE, ROW’S ORI-
ENTAL BITTERS, ROW'S ORIENTAL WINE; as
also the RENOWNED 8888, BARON BERZELIUS'
BUCHU BITTERS, which have beeu manufactured in
Stockholm, Sweden, for the last half century, and
being a compound of Buchu and Dandelion Herbs only,
exercise mild and immediate action, and by use will
soon relieve the patient from any suffering from a
deranged Bladder or Kidneys. TRY THEM I
NOTICE.—Take no more Pills, but try RANDER-
SON’S LOZENGES, the mi dest, safest, and best
aperient known for all disorders of the Stomach and
Liver. One Shilling a box. Reject Imitations.
The great Purifier of the Blood, Dr. MUNRO’S
SARSAPARILLA, guaranteed to he made from the
extract of the root only, and is now acknowledged to
be the Best and Purest among all other brands.
To be obtained of all Wine and Spirit Merchants, and
retail by all Hotelkeepers,
Ask for ROW’S SARSAPARILLA, and see that you
get it. None genuine that does not bear the signature
Of EDWARD ROW and COMPANY.
For the convenience of Hotels throughout the
Colonies, all Wine, ho., can be forwarded in assorted
cases. Assorted Wines and Bitters may be ordered
through any Wine Merchant or Storekeeper.
E. ROW AND CO,
SYDNEY,
ALARMING SALE OE BOOTS AND SHOES
NOW ON! NOW ON!
AT
THE GREAT CENTRAL BOOT COMPANY,
510 GEORGE STREET,
DIRECTLY OPPOSITE THE CENTRAL POLICE COURT.
If you are about to make a purchase, call at THE GREAT CENTRAL and compare their prices
- with those you have been paying.
MAKE NO MISTAKE.
This is the only Genuine Sale, a Periodical Sacrifice.
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
10s 6d DOUBLE TEX L URE TWILLED
SILK NAGASAKI UMBRELLAS, on Foxe's Paragon
Frames, are the best value ever offered in Sydney. Extra
Quality, ditto, ditto, 12s 6d. Five cases of the above
opened this week. Wo need only say this is a DUPLI-
CATE shipment of those received in September.
READY MADE CLOTHING are equal
in CUT, MATERIAL, and WORK, to ordered goods.
TWEED SUITS, extra quality, 45s and 50s, The atten-
tion of gentlemen specially invited, as they are thoroughly
shrunk and weU out. TWEED TROUSERS and VESTS
from 12s 6d to 30s.
ALL GOODS MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES AND SOLD ifOR NETT CASH ONLY.
GOWING BROTHERS’
333 ft 600
GEORGE STREET.
GOWING BROTHERS’
832 ft 600
GEORGE STREET,
GOWING BROTHERS,
500 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Police Office,
AND
332 GEORGE STREET, half-way between Post Office and Hunter-street.
JOHNSTON’S
SEWING MACHINE DEPOT,
HAYMARKBT.
IS
o
A
o
t ß >
HOME COMPANION, j
HOME SHUTTLE, /
WERT HEIM, /A
HOWE, /
&c., &c. /
f/c?>
C 9
!s
The
v
O
*
Light
Running
*
STANDARD.
2s. 6d.
per week.
6>
*
V
A
Needles, Oils,
and parts for all
Machines.
gINGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
J. W. JOHNSTON CO.,
746 Qeorge-street, Haymarket, Sydney,
have keen appointed agents for these celebrated
machines.
Call and see them—Month’s trial given.
Easy Terms, 2s 6d weekly—no interest.
10 per cent discount for cash.
SINGER'S SEWING MACHINES.
T
HE AUSTRALIAN
“HOME” SHUTTLE
AMERICAN LOCKSTITCH
SEWING MACHINE.
jp^^ESsLy ■
F p&
O
s
M
*=%,
c
I
$
ft
</
c/V
TO effectually stop the deception that has boon
practised, every Machine now sent to Australia
is specially made for that clime, and bears A COPT OF
THE ABOVE DESIGN on the work-plate. Purchasers
must look carefully to this, and if Machines are forced
upon them under false pretences, without the above
design, we will not be responsible for their failure to
work.
120,000 NOW IN USE IN AUSTRALIA.
No. I,—Hand Machine, £4.
No. 2.—Machine for treadle use only, £6.
No. 3.—Machine as above, with polished cover to
lock and protect machine, £7.
Where the Genuine Australian " Home ” Shuttle
Machines, marked as above, are not procurable, wo will
send them direct to purchasers on receipt of remittance
or reference. Cases and packing free.
Sole Agents for Australia—
M. MOSS & CO.,
WYNYARD LANE, SYDNEY.
mr LOOK FOR THE NAM 111
and MRS. W. H. THOMPSON,
ON TOUR.
ADDRESS:
Hobart, October 10th.
New Zealand to follow.


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mrs. Hall, wife of the N.Z. Premier, is seriously
ill.
General Airey, once acting Governor of Victoria,
is dead. Aged 78.
Ebenezer Ward, M.P., has started a new agri-
cultural paper, the Town and Country, at Adelaide.
Mr. F. W. Haddon, editor of the Argus, Melb.,
has been on a visit to Sydney, during the last few days.
The Eight Rev. Dr. Moorhouse, Anglican Bishop
Melbourne, is expected to visit Sydney early next
month.
Mr Meston’s libel case against the Nord Aus-
tralische Zeituno will be heard on Nov. 7, in the
Supreme Court, Brisbane.
Mr. James H. Burton, who is now voyaging
round the world in his new yacht Asteroid, is expected
to reach Sydney this week.
Mr. Thomas Newman, a S A. colonist of 41
years standing, and one of the few remaining poineers
of the coleny, died last week.
Mr. Edward Bennett, barrister, has been
appointed acting District Court Judge during Judge
Forbes’ absence on sick leave.
So far, the amount realised by the Victorian
committee for the widow and family of the late Mr.
Marcus Clarke does not exceed £BOO.
Mr. Biggar, Parnell’s lieutenant in the House
of Commons, is the son of a Presbyterian Elder, but is
a convert to the Eoman Catholic faith.
Mr. A. E. Moore, one of the sufferers by the
Jolimont railway accident, remained an hour and a half
under the debris before he was released.
Mr. W. B. Violette, a Sydney Grammar School
pupil, has graduated as M.B. and C.M. at Glasgow
University. He returns to the colony to practice.
Those who “ toss off their verses in idle hours ”
will be surprised to hear that Mr. Tennyson worked
three days on six lines of “Come into the garden,
Maud."
Rev. Father M‘Nab, the well-known E. C.
missionary to the Victorian aborigines, was a passenger
by the train wrecked at Jolimont. He escaped without
injury.
Mr. Justice Holroyd, of Melbourne, remarks
that when a man says he is a confirmed old bachelor,
and is likely to remain so, he is most likely to get
married.
Mr. James Williamson Skene has been appointed
to the accountantship of the Victorian Lands Depart-
ment, vice E. J. Agg, the other day convicted of embez-
zlement.
Inspector O’Connor, who captained the Queens-
land niggers at the Glenrowan man-horning, has gone
into the hide and skin business. The gallant inspector
saved his own skin for a start.
Mr. George Martyr, a very old and well-known
resident of Goulbum, long connected with the local
press, was buried on the 17th. A numerous assemblage
followed his body to the grave.
Mr. Archibald Forbes, since his return from
America to England, had an important operation per-
formed by the eminent surgeon. Sir Henry Thompson.
G. A. Sala wonders that the chief of the “ specials ”
is still alive.
M. De la Forest, late French Vice-Consul in
* Sydney, has been appointed to a similar position in
Melbourne. M. Le Capitaine Georges Bouliech is now
gazetted as Vice-Consul and Chancellor of the French
Consulate at Sydney.
Sir John Robertson has in Sydney an almost
complete “double,” who is a very respectable old
gentleman, indeed. Of Sir Henry, there is also —we
don’t, however, say in Sydney—a “ parody ” extant.
The parody gets drunk sometimes in public, which
destroys the resemblance.
Mr. Hargreaves has gone to Melbourne in order
to urge upon the present Government his claim to the
balance of the money voted to him by the Victorian
Assembly many years ago for services rendered as the
discoverer of gold In Australia.
Mr. Gladstone has one of the biggest heads in
England. Some time ago Mr. Tennyson and he had
an argument whose head was the larger; they were
measured, and the Laureate’s head was found to be the
wider, but Mr. Gladstone’s the higher.
Mr. John Ferres, the Victorian Government
printer, who was superannuated by Mr. Berry, has been
re*mstated by the O’Loghlen Ministry. Mr. Ferras is
active and healthy, and has, owing to his holiday, been
enjoying a retiring allowance of £350 per annum, which
will now be saved.
Hr. James Paterson, formerly Professor of Mid-
Yfry at the Andersonian University, Glasgow, and one
T ea t-known medical men in that city, is dead,
in the celebrated Pritchard murder case he was the first
9 detect symptoms of foul play during life in the
ictims of that unprincipled villain.
Vale and Mirams, the great Victorian temper-
ance advocates, have fallen out, and are speaking their
minds very intemperately about each other. W. M. K.
“i 1 ®. stigmatises J. Mirams as a traitor, and the latter
etabates with such retorts as “ personal spitefulness
~~gross language—statements absolutely untrue—
Palpably false,” &c.
Itfr. James Hutton, of Charters Towers, who
vrf, t 9 6en visiting Mount Browne in the interests of
Melbourne capitalists, is one of the brothers belonging
00 a well-known Victorian family who settled on the
Towers some years ago. On Mr, Hutton’s report, a
company, capital £12,000, has been formed to commence
crushing operations at the new diggings.
Mr. Brennan, the inventor of the torpedo which
is now attracting so much attention in English military
and naval circles, and which is about being reported
on by a joint committee of the Admiralty and the War
Office, is a young Victorian. He originally intended to
apply to quite another purpose the principle on which
the value of the invention mainly depends.
That brave Beige, Mons. Emile Coulon, who,
about twenty years ago, embarked from Melbourne for
Europe, with a subscribed fund for bringing out an
Italian Opera Company, but forgot to come hack, was
recently met in Paris by an old Victorian. The brilliant
baritone, although manager of two theatres in Nantes,
was not doing well; but he did not think of returning
to Australia.
Mr. W. B. Bradley received .£333,000 —not
£35,000 as stated—fer his one-third share in the station
properties owned by Cobb and Co. They comprise the
Buckinguy Blocks, Macquarie River and Mara Creek;
Ouranie station, Upper Murray; Claverton Downs,
Cunnamulla, Warrego: and thousands of square miles
on the Diamantina. Mr. Bradley was not a partner in
the coaching business.
Jack M'Elhone —we mean the honorable mem-
ber for the Upper Hunter—was an apprentice on board
the Royal Saxon, one of Bobby Towns’ ships, In 1851.
As John and some shipmates were swimming about one
morning in the Bay of Bengal, there was suddenly a
cry of, “ A shark! A shark 1" and Bruce, the chief
mate, had to haul John up with a bowline. However,
there was no shark after all. But suppose there had
been I
This is David Buchanan’s description of a tee-
totaller: —“A lean, emaciated, yellow faced creature,
who has no fear of God, but all sorts of fear of man; a
miserable being, whom he could not look upon without
feeling an almost irresistible hankering to take him by
the heels and pitch him head foremost into a puncheon
of rum.” Sir Henry says that rather than listen to
another three-hours’ rigmarole from David, he would
drown himself in a puncheon of rum.
The other day, at a town which shall be name-
less, her Majesty Queen Lizzie, only surviving
daughter of their Majesties, Jimmy Coolaliba and his
dark consort, condescended to yoke herself in marriage
according to the forms and rites of the Church of
England with a white splitter. After the ceremony the
happy pair adjourned to one of the local hotels and in-
dulged in spirituous dissipation until a late hour, when
alcoholic incapacity prevented further enjoyment. No
cards.
Mr. Eugene W. Rudder, whose claim to partici-
pate in the reward for the discovery of gold in N.S.W.,
was rejected by the Assembly last week, is over 80
years of age. The old gentleman, in a pamphlet circu-
lated by him among the members of the House, says:
“ That my not being the actual discoverer of the pre- J
cious metal in 1851 was, as far as man can judge, due to
an act of Divine Providence, over which I could have
no control. I was shipwrecked on my way from Cali-
fomia to this colony, on the Ist of December, 1850, hav-
ing left that country with that special object in view.
I did not reach land until the tenth day after the disas-
ter, after having travelled 900 miles of ocean in an open
boat.”
Mr. Joseph Boland, one of the oldest of Dnbbo
residents, is dead. He arrived in the colony 64 years
ago, when but eight years of age. He once owned a
station on the Murra Creek, and after selling it kept
the Boyal Hotel, Dubbo, for a time. For 16 years he
had been out of business, and up to within the last few
months appeared to enjoy robust health. Two months
ago he visited Sydney to consult some medical men,
and a few weeks after his return he took to his bed and
never rose from it again. The cause of death was heart
disease. Deceased was, perhaps, one of the best known
men in the north-west, and few of the older generation
but will hear of his death with regret. Kindly and
generous, he was always ready to oblige.
A fierce discussion rages among tbe American
medicos concerning President Garfield’s ease. The
experience of military surgeons is that men very seldom
recover from penetration of the liver. The six able
surgeons by whom the President has been attended
have acted in almost perfect harmony. What is known
as the antiseptic treatment has been adopted. A great
danger, and the one which resulted in the President's
death, was from the poisoning of the channel which the
bullet out for itself through the body. In such cases the
internal wound generates a poisonous crust, of a micro-
scopic nature, all along where the bullet has traversed.
This is a frequent cause of death. By antiseptic
treatment, the crust is rendered harmless through an
injection, which makes it peel off, and leave the body.
One of the most distinguished veterans in
Australasia is Major-General Irving, a resident of
Tasmania. General Irving has seen a lot of active
service, including the relief of Lucknow. Another
distinguished military resident of the Tight Little
Island is Colonel Bernard, a comparatively young man,
although an old soldier. What his qualifications are
may be judged by the fact that so recently as the time
of the occupation of Cyprus, he was in full command
of his regiment, which became, in consequence of his
soldierly management, noted as a crack corps. Colonel
Bernard was compelled to resign the command, owing
to an attack of “Cyptui fever.”
There are few portraits extant of Adam Lindsay
Gordon, the poet and dashing horseman, whose
memory, dear to all who have read his verse, is wor-
shipped by those who are so fortunate as to have known
the author. It would appear that Gordon had his por-
trait taken but on two occasions, and that both
negatives have now disappeared. Those who wish to
procure e portrait of Gordon can do so by applying to
Mr. T. H. Boyd, of George-street, who has in his posses-
sion a copy of a photograph taken in Adelaide not long I
before Gordon met his melancholy end. By the way,
it is curious, considering that Gordon was incom-
parably the best writer of verse Australia has yet seen,
his name is not even mentioned by the compilers of
such works as “ The Australian Dictionary of Dates."
The Premier of New South Wales is a strong
advocate of federation. He encourages the movement
by taking advantage of any opportunity to say the
harshest and most unjustifiable things about Victoria.
In answering an interjection of Mr. Slattery’s, as to the
greater part of the Licensing Bill being copied from the
Victorian Act, he said that he should look twice and
think three or four times before he copied anything
from Victoria. Public houses in Victoria, he added, were
“ unreasonably numerous, and they were unreasonably
badly kept." Sir Henry evidently doesn’t know what
he’s talking about. The best hotels in the colonies are
in Melbourne; and the most which can be said in favour
of hundreds of the Sydney hotels is that they will sell
you a drink for threepence, whereas in Melbourne you
pay sixpence.
Mr. Chitty, whose appointment to an English
judgeship is announced by cable, is one of those who
combine proficiency in athletic sports with great in-
tellectual acquirements. He was captain and wicket-
keeper of the Oxford University Eleven, captain and
stroke oar of his own college (Balliol) eight, and is the
inventor of what is known among rowing men as the
Oxford stroke, which consists in putting the haft down
and the feather up in the forward position at the com-
mencement of the stroke, and so at first cutting into
the water to nearly the full depth of the purchase. It
is this peculiarity which makes the Oxford stroke rather
slower than the Cambridge. Mr. Chitty took a first-
class in classics, and his career at the bar has been of a
very distinguished order. He is a son of the well-
known chamber barrister with whom so many notable
lawyers read, and of whom the late Judge Fellows, o
Victoria, was a pupil.
Mr. Horace Hodgkinson,* of the Victorian
Lands Department, who was slightly injured in the
Jolimont railway smash, has had some narrow escapes.
At three one morning, some years ago, in Melbourne,
he awoke and at his door saw a masked man keeping
guard, while another masked man rifled a chest of
drawers. Horace was rather astonished, but he gave
no sign, as he couldn’t get at his revolver. He waited
until they turned to go and then “ he went for them,”
but the scoundrels, two highly accomplished burglars,
had taken the precaution of leaving the front door
ajar, and so they managed to get clear away.
Horace was in the snowy robes of night, besides being
minus boots. They took, among other things, all
available valuables, and some of their victim’s clothes,
including a fancy dress in which he had intended to go
to a ball next night. They were subsequently arrested,
convicted, and sentenced to long terms of imprison-
ment.
Of all the high class writers on the London
Press, the caligraphy of George Augusta Sala and E.
Franoillon (author of “ Olympia ’’) are said to be the I
plainest, and that of Professor Tyndall to be the worst.
Sala’s and Francillon’s copy, in its surprising neatness,
is the delight of compositors, while they demand and
obtain an extra price for setting up the Professor’s
hieroglyphics. To come to our own writers, the late
Marcus Clarke wrote an exceedingly picturesque hand
—bold and legible; while Henry Kendall’s “fist” fs
unique, each letter being written seperately.
enry writes with his left hand. Garnet Walch
writes like a merchant’s clerk, while the “Vag’s”
caligraphy possesses no individuality. The writers on
the staff of this journal exhibit penmanship which
varies according to what they write with, and to the
humour they are in when they do write. But it is need-
less to say that upon every up and down stroke there is,
under any circumstances, the impress—ahem!—of
genius. “ Boy, go out and buy a penny candle.”
The Advertiser and Watson Observer is
to be published at Herberton, Wild Eiver, N.Q., in
October. There is also an Independent in the field.
The Advertiser referred to is the Cairns Advertiser,
which has been tempted by the prospects of the Her-
berton tin mines to leave the town it has so persist-
ently brought before the notice of the colony for the
past five years. In making a public announcement to
this effect, the editor, Dr. Myers, stated that he still
believed in the doggerel motto over the Advertiser’s
leader,
“ Cairns you will yet see flourishing and great
Fortune helps those who know best how to wait.”
but that he could not afford to wait any longer. Dr.
Myers is the same man who used to advertise in Mel-
bourne, a few years ago, that he could cure cancer
“ without operation.” He is a cripple and can’t walk,
but still he possesses plenty of “go,” and has for a
long time combined, let us hope profitably, the use of
the pen and the lancet in the Far North.
Colonel T. G. Glover, managing director of the
Eastern Extension, Australasian and China Telegraph
Company, whoso death is announced by cable from
London, had a distinguished career. He served in the
Indian mutiny as a j unior officer, and received special
promotion for services performed under circumstances
of except! mal difficulty and risk immediately after the
outbreak of the Sepoys at the great military station of
Meerut, in May, 1857. At the close of the mutiny he
was'appointed to a high engineering position, and in
1868, on the death of Colonel Kobinson, he was made
director of State Telegraphs. He became associated
with the Eastern Extension Telegraph Company in
1870, as managing director, and he retained that posi-
tion until his death. He visited Australia in 1876-77,
and carried to a successful issue the negotiations for
the duplication of the cable from Port Darwin to Singa-
pore. During his stay in these colonies Colonel Glover
gained many friends. When returning from Australia,
at New York, he heard of the death of his youngest
daughter, which has ever since depressed him greatly.
He spent last winter in Egypt, but did not much bene-
fit by the change. The immediate cause of death was
blood poisoning
So Ouida” is not dead after all. If she is,
the London correspondent of the Brisbane Courier
has a very fine invention. Mark him now “ How did
that rumour of * Ouida’s’ death arise P I handed to a
friend of hers for transference to Florence, where the
novelist was last week playing happily amongst her
dogs, a highly laudatory obituary notice clipped from a
Sydney paper. “ Ouida” will never be young again in
this world, but she shows no signs of decay yet, and
has nearly finished another novel. ‘Moths,’ abused
and denounced, has been an enormous success at home
and abroad, for some of the characters, notably the
bad mother of the heroine, are sketches of well-known
living individuals.” After this, the deluge I Why, we
were all in it! The Herald was majestically severe,
the D.T. came out with a rush of grammar, and the
“heavinin’ paper” contained an obituary in its very best
style. We think we remember how it begun : “Ouida”
died that wrote “Months,” and “ DavidChuzzlewit,"
also “Grandfather’s Clock,” and “Unkle Tom’s Caben.”
Her funeral was influentially attended. And in a short
par: Her last rite was “Moths.” By the way, the
“ highly laudatory obituary notice” alluded to above
was clipped from The Bulletin.
Charles Dickens’s motto in writing—and how it
is exemplified in all his work I —“frappez vite, et frappez
fort." In carrying out this maxim, he gathered
round him on the staff of All the Year Bound a bevy
of hard hitters that could not be beaten. There was
Hollingshead, incisive, wonderful in collecting facts
where abuses were concerned, and putting his facts
into vigorous, downright English His strokes always
told, and a little paper of his conceived in this spirit,
entitled Give us More Boom, a simple subject,
was copied at length into the Times, and from the
Times into other papers. There was Moy Thomas,
now the pleasant writer of the Monday “ Causeries ”
in the Dailt News. There was Walter Thombury,
with his extraordinary knowledge of London antiquities
and his “Old Stories Ee-Told," which are even now
being re-printed in the Melbourne Weekly Times.
There was Andrew Halliday, a splendid hand at dishing
up hard facts in an attractive form, and adapting for
the stage, with immense effect and mechanical judg-
ment, the novels of Scott, Ainsworth, and the master-
pieces of his editor. Then there were Parkinson, and
Professor Morley, and the great Sala, than whom no
more attractive writer ever soiled paper for the press.
The Christmas number under the old rigime, to which
most of these writers contributed, reached annually a
circulation of a quarter a million copies 1
Skuthorpe has made the St. George Standard
some statements, that, in the words of that journal, are
characterised by consistency, which, if not born of
truth, is of itself a marvellous gift, and quite at vari-
ance with the estimate of his abilities entertained by
those who have known him for many years. He re-
quests the appointment of competent authority to ex-
amine the alleged relics, and would accept payment on
their delivery, after receiving a release from all re-
sponsibility in connection with their possession. He
says he found them, with the aid of the blacks, 190
miles from the nearest occupied country. Classan’s
journal, he says, substantiates the truth of Hume’s
story, and the fact of his having been with Classan for
nine weeks. Leichhardt and his companion perished
for want of water. Classan died, os already stated,
while living with the blacks. His body has been care-
fully buried in reeds and bark, and the skeleton is still
perfect, with a full grey beard reaching nearly to the
belt. The telescope, as described by Skuthorpe, is of
brass, octagoual in shape, and bears the names, Mac-
quarie, Bussell, and Leichhardt, engraved on the top
joint. The compass is an old-fashioned Vane
compass in a wooden box. Leichhardt’s own diary is
written on parchment sheets rolled in leather, and
Classen’s notes on ordinary paper, both in English, and
they are enclosed in a metal case of peculiar construc-
tion. Such are a few of the facts as related by Mr.
Skuthorpe, and that in a way to carry conviction home,
says the Standard, to any but the most pronounced
sceptic.
The name of James M'Kean, M.L.A., has been
restored to the list of Executive Councillors of Vic-
toria, from which it was erased at the instance of the
M’Culloch Government. Mr. M’Kean, as a public man,
is a popgun. He explodes often, makes a great noise,
and never hits the mark. He has the longest body and
one of the shortest minds in Melbourne, which is
saying a great deal. He is an attorney, and a perfect
gentleman by act of Parliament. He has a big library,
on which he prides himself—but so far as Parliament is
concerned, he might as well have no library at all. He
is a bigger man, but not so good-looking, as Mr. Dibbs.
Like Mr. Dibbs, he has a mania for turning, which,
however, is not of much service to him in his Parlia-
mentary duties, for Mac is a thoroughly consistent
Kadi cal. Consistency, it has been remarked, is the
virtue of fools. Not that we wish to say Mr. M’Kean
is a fool. He behaved so outrageously during the
celebrated “iron hand” debate that he was turned
over by the Assembly to the Sergeant-of-arms, in whose
charge, having refused either to pay the fine Imposed
or to apologise, he remained for some time. His friends
tried to make a martyr of him, during the period of
his incarceration. When they visited him in his dun-
geon—a capitally appointed suite of rooms—James,
with a view of exciting pity, used to exhibit to them
the half-picked vertebrae of a fried garfish, and ask
“ whether thot was the sort of dinner to give to a
mon.” The contrast between the legislator and his
prey—that’s to say the garfish—was certainly great.
And now Mr. M’Kean has been restored to his pristine
glory.
Mr. G. R. Ashton; a well-known artist, and for
some y< a's a member of the Graphic staff, has settled
n Sydney.
President Garfield died at Long Branch, on Mon-
day evening, of blood-joisoning, r suiting from the
wound inflicted by the assassin, Guiteau. There will
probably be much trouble in the States, as it is unlikely
that the presidency o Chester Arthur wil be submitted
SAGACIOUS LEGISLATION.


SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
THE
SINGER MA>. UFACTURIN6 COMPANT
Have opened a Depot in
s
YDNEY, AT No. 1 DARLING STORES,
' HARBOUR STREET.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Illustrated Price List sent Post Free.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
BEST TERMS TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for address of nearest Agent.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOR FAMILIES.
Have received 160 First Prize Medals.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash.
SINGER’S, BEST FOR DRESSMAKERS.
SINGER’S MEDIUM MACHINE is Unequalled.
SINGER’S SEWING MACHINES,
Easy Terms, 2s. 6d. weekly.
8
INGER’S THE BEST FOR TAILORS.
See the New No. 4 Machine.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Easy Terms. No addition to the price.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST FOE BOOTMAKERS.
See the New No. 4 Yibrating-Presser Machine.
8
INGEE’S SEWING MACHINES.
HAND OR TREADLE.
8
INGER’S. The BEST. The HAND FAMILY
MACHINE—Light to Work, Light to Carry.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Ten per cent, for cash, or 2s. 6d. weekly all Agents.
8
INGER’S, THE BEST; EASIEST TO
LEARN. New Improvements without extra cost.
8
INGBR’S SEWING MACHINES.
Instruction Free to all Purchasers.
8
INGBR’S, THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Sew finest muslins and heaviest cloths.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
Write for Illustrated Price List and Terms.
8
INGER’S THE BEST and MOST DURABLE.
Will last a lifetime in constant work.
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES.
ADDRESS: THE
8
TNGER MANUFACTURING COMPANY r
.'io. 1 DARLING STORES, Harbour-street, Sydney
8
INGER’S SEWING MACHINES
TURNER & CO.
ARE THE
RECOGNISED AGENTS
OE THE
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 Qeorge-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER”—
TURNER & COMPANY,
Opposite General Post Office.
TIC TORI A HALL. Castlereagh-street, oppo-
site to St. James’s School.
Lessee and Manager D’ARCY RBAD,-
The above New and Elegant Hall has been expressly
built and decorated at great expense for the purpose of
exhibiting D’Arcy Read’s ” Ghost” and wondrous
“ Specktrescope," as produced by him three and a half
years since at the Guild Hall.
This and every evening until further notice the per-
formance will commence with the Charming Fairy Ex.
travanza, written by Garnet Walch, Esq , expressly for
this wondrous entertainment, entitled “BEAUTY
AND THE BEAST," to be followed by the most
exquisite illusory spectacle, realizing the famous
picture by Claude Lorraine, of the Water Nymphs.
The whole to conclude with a laughable monologue,
entitled the “ HAUNTED HOUSE.”
For cast cf characters see bills.
Price of Admission—Front seat, 3s; second seats,
2s; back seats Is. Children half price to all parts.
Plans to be seen and tickets obtained at A. Huener-
bein’s music warehouse, George-street, opposite Royal
Hotel. Doors open at 7.30, commence at 8 o’clock.
Carriages 10 15 —SYDNEY HALL Bo iness Manager.
-»V
WHY don’t you get married
DR. SIMMS’ Last, Funniest, and Best LEC
TURE of his Second Successful Course will h 6
delivered at the TEMPERANCE HALL, Pitt-street,
on I.OVE, COURTSHIP, and MARRIAGE, tins
(THURSDAY) Evening, September 22, at 8 o’clock.
Admission—2s. and 3s. . ..
DR. BIMMS, the inimitable humourist will give
Last, a Racy and Mirthful Lecture, this Evening. Don
fail to hear him who never fails in this, the last Lector
of the Course, to delight his hearers by comic hits ana
hilarious descriptions ; to enU rtain them by wise sug-
gestions full of that “ touch of nature which makes tn
whole world kin,” and to elevate and refine their co -
ceptions of that supreme emotion which is the basis
all that is lovely in the family and strong in the sta*£
DR. SIMMS will not lecture again in Sydney, but t
day and each day this week only he will be at the co
fortable private ante-room of the Temperance Hall,
order to supply the public with his large Physiogno _
cal Charts, 240 pp., accurately marked to indicate
Intellectual, Social, and Moral traits of apphcaii
their state of health, the occupations for which NM
has adapted them, and the character of person
should choose for a life companion. Thousands oi
and women in Great Britain and America are ti-
reaping the benefits of a consultation with
To follow his professional advice, communicated o
and by means of his Charts, is to pursue the pa
virtue, happiness, and worldly success. -r-U
VICTORIA HOUSE CRICKET CLLb
(Farmer and Company.)
THE ANNUAL EXCURSION
will take place at
TENNYSON, _
On SATURDAY. Ist OCTOBER, 1881. .
The steamers Prince of Wales andAgenoria wl Vntlo g
from Circular Quay —l.3o, 2, and 2.45 sharp.
Australian Band engaged. Tickets. Is fideimh.
_____ a. TOWNSEND, Hon. w*
TRUE TASTE AND UNDOUBTED UTIL
W
HEN these are combined with LOW PRICES, who or v
the ruling principles at the
PALACE EMPO]
HAYMABKBI (ONLY).
S ANTHONY HORDERN AND
Proudly point to their PAST AND PRESENT SUCCESSES a
the soundness of those principles upon which their business i
society have DECLARED IN FAVOUR OF THE GREAT PALj
SYDNEY, as the leading House in the trade in this Colony. We
OUR EXQUISITE SPRING AND SUJ
They are beautiful, they are durable, and they are cheap. You
in CONSIDERING some selected examples, and then PAY A V
BEAUTIFUL SILKS,
SATINS, CASE-
IN MERE, BEIGE, &c.
MANCHESTER
GOODS.
TABLE COVERS.
BOOTS AND SHOES
for
LADIES & CHILDREN
MANTLES, COS-
TUMES, MILLI-
NERS’, Ac.
•• FANCY " GOODS.
YOUTHS’ and MEN’S
CLOTHING,
MERCERY and HATS
Of BLACK GLACE SILK we have an
and Is lOd per yard. Of the truly splem
there are 2000 yards at 2s per yard ; 2200
10 at 2s 9d; and 10 at 3s. There are 3ca
10s 6d a yard. Of the BRILLIANT GB
manufacture, the prices per yard are 3s 6(
COLOURED GROS. GRAIN SILKS are
it will be long before you forget them. T
20,000 yards, at 14d, 16d, 18d, 20d, and 2
Again, there is the beautiful FRENCH
yard. There is the fashionable SARA
There are the INDIAN CASHMERES, re
is the lovely NUN’S CLOTH, all colours.
We have a most efficient DRESSMAI
work in the newest fashions, very rapidly
There are CALICOES in all makes ai
FIGURED from s*d; TABLE DAMASI
all prices, and COT TON DIAPER at 6d;
Is 3d ; WHITE SHEETING (plain), ran
from lOd up to la 9d. There are TUJ
HONE V COMB, 2s lid a dozen.
TABLE COVERS. EMBROIDERED
and the “ RENOWNED VELVET PILE,
This is a NEW DEPARTMENT. The
laced. They are durable and fashionable,
a CHILD’S TINIEST BOOT to a LADS
There are 330 beautiful DOLMANS and
COSTUMES. There is every sort of shap
The TRIMMED MILLINERY is a sight
There are RIBBONS, all shades, all c
Spanish, Cream, Gold, BEAL BRETC
GLOVE and other GLOVES are innumert
There is a continuous stream of Custo
Boys, and for our well-known cheap anc
SUITS, SHIRTS. HATS, CAPS, COL
for men.
ONLY ONE ADDRESS
And the great point to be observed i
address, and NO BRANCHES whatever, <
ANTHONY HORDERN I
THE PALACE EM
HAYM A R K
(ONLY,)
SYDNEY.
In the ASSIGNED ]
Trade mark, Waltham, Mass. The American
Watch Company, of Waltham, Massachusetts, XJ. S. A.,
hereby give notice that their trade mark, Waltham,
Mass., is now registered in the Australian colonies of
Victoria, New South Wales, and New Zealand. Proceed-
ings will be taken against any persons copying or imi-
tating same, or any vendors selling or offering for sale
watches bearing colourable imitations, or in any way
infringing our rights.—AMERICAN WATCH COM-
PANY, Waltham, Mass. —Anv.
IHE FESTIVAL OF THE SEASON.
LICENSED VICTUALLERS’ ASSOCIATION OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
PICNIC, BANQUET, BALL,
TUESDAY, October 4th,
SIR JOSEPH BANKS PAVILION, BOTANY.
Tickets: Gent.’s, one guinea; lady’s, half-guinea;
children, ss; to be had of members of the Council of the
Association. J. B. OLLIFFE.
HENRY’S COLONIAL OINTMENT, AND
AUSTRALIAN WORM POWDERS.
Prepared only by the Inventor and Proprietor, J.
HENRY, CHEMIST, 750 Qeorge-street, Maymarket,
ihirddoor from Commercial Bank.
66 E R 0 Y 0N u s -”
(Citizen’s, edition of the 17th instant.)
PUNCH. Buy the great Sydney Satiris*, and fully un-
derstand the dire effects of “ Council Medicine ” on the
robust form of the Chinese Restriction Bill, after it
left the hands of vour representatives. Then attend
the Oerat Public MEETING at the Temperance Hall,
on FEIDA'i next, convened by his Worship the Mayor
for restoring the measure to its fair Iproportions.
One of the Promoters of the Meeting.
{ l H ARLES GIETZ,
• ' (from Messrs P. N. Russell and Co.)
Manufacturer of Cooking Stoves, Bakers' Ovens,
Mountings, &o. Off No. 517 George-street (between
Bathurst and Liverpool streets), Sydney.
The reason why so many are nnable to taka
cocoa is that the varieties commonly sold are mixed
with starch, under the plea of rendering them soluble;
while really making them thick, heavy, and indigestible.
This may be easily detected; for if cocoa thickens in the
cup it proves the addition of starch. Cadbury's Cocoa
Essence is genuine; it is therefore three times the
strength of these cocoas, and a refreshing beverage lik
tea or coffee. —Anv.
to. The election of Arthnr, a leading “ Stalwant,” to
the office of Vice-President, was the result of a compro-
mise with the Stalwart party, to which Guiteau, the
murderer, professes to belong.
I 'Mr. Charles Bright lectured on Sunday last at
the Theatre Royal to a house crammed in every part.
336 persona paid for admission to the dress circle, and 592
to the stalls. It is, we understand, the intention of
Freethinkers to hold, on a week night, a validictory
gathering prior to Mr. Bright’s departure for America,
on which occasion it is contemplated to present a testi-
monial to Mr. Bright.
Leichhardt’s sister, who is old and penniless,
has had written from Germany by her niece a letter
asking the Government of N.S.W. for assistance. The
appeal is irresistible. “He corresponded solely with
ns,” she writes, “ and clung with the greatest fondness
to my parents. Had our uncle lived he would surely
have provided for us; I therefore beg the) English
Government to care for us in as open-hearted a manner
as Leichhardt would were he yet living.” The bank-
ruptcy of one who has inherited the means of the
family has left the relatives of Leichhardt destitute. In
the last despair of the explorer his people no doubt
occupied his thoughts. His latest anxiety was, per-
haps, for them, and we may well believe that his un-
requited claims on us may be fittingly discharged in
regard of those to whom his thoughts reverted in his
dying hour. As Kendall finely puts it:
*on the tracts of thirst and furnace—on the dumb,
blind, burning plain,
Where the red earth gapes for moisture and the wan
leaves hiss for rain,
In a land of fierce, dry thunder—did he ever pause and
dream
Of the cool, green German valley, and the singing
German stream ?”
POLITICAL POINTS.
The N. Z. general election s take place immediately
after the rising of Parliament.
It is said that several ticklish questions re Cus-
toms mismanagement are to be asked in the House
shortly.
Advertisement from Tapanui (N. Z.) Courier:
—“Heath. —Waikaia. —ln the House of Assembly, this
session, of Hallism and secret plotting, the Electoral
District of Waikaia."
History repeats itself. —The Parkes-Forster
embroglio over again—in New Zi aland. The Govern-
ment have received “another insolent letter" from
Sir Julius Vogel. It is said to be more offensive than
the previous one.
During the “ stonewalling” on the N.Z. Repre-
sentation Bill, Mr. Seddon moved : “That this Act shall
only remain in force till the time that honest men are
returned to Parliament to crush out the cursed abortion
and give freedom to the people.” On another occasion
he told an hon. member that he ought to be politically
poll axed.
It’s a curious circumstance that when members
bring forward motions to have money awarded to indi-
viduals who have claims against the Government, they
invariably do so “ through a sense of duty.” And yet,
in the Milburn Creek affair, some groveller said it was
very expensive work interviewing members of Parlia-
ment. What a gross libel I
In the course of the debate in Parliament on
the Licensing Bill,.it was suggested that members
should go home and send their wives and sisters to
Parliament House to deal with the question. If this
were done, one thing is certain, the wives and sisters
would not possibly talk more, or scandalise each other
to a greater extent, than their husbands and brothers
do.
A nice little scandal has been reported in the
N.Z. Legislative Council. It seems that an inquiry
took place, but nothing came of it. The Hon. Mr.
Campbell and the Hon. Mr Wood sold their chances of
an honorarium to Mr. Beeves last session for £5O each.
The Hon. Mr. Campbell paid the difference to Mr.
Beeves, but the Hon. Mr. Wood repudiated the obliga-
tion —hence the inquiry. The Hon. Mr. Campbell,
although he paid Mr. Beeves, has not yet claimed his
honorarium.
In an exceedingly able speech on the Licensing
Bill, Mr. G. H. Beid brought out some interesting statis-
tical information, which he had taken the trouble to
collate. He named thirty towns which had on an
average one hotel for every 41 male adults, or one for
163 men, women, and children. Carcoar heads the list,
with one public-house for every 15 male adults. Wal-
?fett comes next, with one pub. for 19, and Butrowa
ollows with one for 20—yet Tom Slattery avers that
his is the most virtuous constituency in the colony
Parramatta has the least number of public-houses
according to population, the average on the basis of
male adults being one per 100.
It may be safely predicted that the attorneys
will not proceed any further with the Legal Prac-
titioners’ Bill. All the attorneys, with the exception
of Mr. Proctor, defined the obieot of the bill to be the
cheapening of law. The bill was silent on the point of
fees.and whibt it was in this state the attorneys were very
loud in their assertion that they were actuated by the
most patriotic of motives Mr. S. C. Brown, in par-
ticular, said that if an attorney were allowed to act
counsel there would Jbe no| charges “ instructions for
brief"—one of the largest items in an attorney’s bill of
costs. Yet, when Mr. Proctor proposed a clause which
would limit the whole of the attorney’s fees to the
amount which would have been paid for a barrister,
Mr. Brown and the other attorneys jumped on him.
They said that his action was discreditable to a mem-
ber of the “perfesh,” as he was trying to " burlesque
legislation." The attorneys have been fairly “ licked"
on their own ground by the barristers, of whom Mr.
Pilcher was the chief mouthpiece.
A 58 lb. nugget of fine gold was recently found
in the Siberian mine of the brothers Trapenznikoff.
If anyone desires to dwell in the odour of sanc-
tity, he could not do better than go to Coogee Heights.
The connection between Coogee and sanotity is, at
first, perhaps as obscure as that between decency and
“down the harbour.” But it comes in this way, that
the Bishop of Sydney lives there, and adjoining sub-
divisions of land are to be sold to well-disposed persons,
on Saturday next, by Hardie and Gorman. Special
train, free tickets. No extra charge for whiffs of the
briny.
One of the latest introductions to the Northern
districts is the Universal Sewing Machine Company,
which is pronounced by the most competent judges to
be a marvellous piece of mechanism. A branch of the
firm’s business has been opened at Maitland, under the
management of Mr. A Barton, who is a assisted by Mr.
F. A. Hall, senior traveller for the Company. A good
business has already been done at Maitland At Tam-
worth the “ Universal ” obtained a Special Prize.
A prospectus has been issued of a Sydney
University Review, which is to be produced under the
direction and management of members of the 'Varsity,
with the view of establishing a high-class periodical in
which the culture, literary taste, and critical judgment
of the Australian Colonies shall have expression This
is a very proper function for members of the University
to discharge—if they can. A formidable list of intend-
ing contributors is given, including many able men.
The Review is to appear thrice a year; and, if it avoids
the mistake of being too ponderous and too dear, should
receive sufficient support to enable it to become a
regular institution.


ON THE GROUND, V
SATURDAY, SEPTEME
BISHOPSM
CO OGEE EEH
ADJOINING THE EESID]
LOED BISHOP OP
THE PREMIER SUI
THIBTEEN AND A HAI
of the
BEST LAND IN THE
subdivided b;
ME. SUEVEYOE AT
into
CHARMING VILI
BISHOPSHOI
POSSESSES THE FOLLOWING
PUEE AIE
GOOD DEAINAGE
ELEVATED POSE
GEAND OCB
WIDE £
BA
GOOD I
EAST COMM!
TORRENS’ TITLE
PEEE DEEDS
EASY TEEMS.
BISHOPSMI
IS ACKNOWLEDGED BY A]
the
GRANDEST POS
rjl H E A T R E
Lessee
Treasurer M
14-th Week of 4
LONDON OPERA COMIC
MADAME FAV.
Admission—ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Doors open at 7.30. Overture
o’clock precisely.
Tickets for stalls, family circle
chased during the day at H. Solti
King-street.
o
PE R A
Sole Lessee Mi
Manager
JUNPRECEDENTED i
KELLY and 1.1
COMIC OPE HA CO
TO-NIGHT and EVERI
the celebrated Comic Opera
FATINITZA
FATINITZA
FATINITZA
FATINITZA FATINITZA
FATINITZA FATINITZA
FATINITZA FATINITZA
FATINITZA
_ . FATINITZA
In which the whole Company apf
and Chorus of Ladies and (
Scenery by Mr. Wilson B
have been unanimous in th
brated Opera. Admission : 5 1
at Huenerbein’s music store ;
son’s, next Theatre.—M. J. A:
MACCABE, THE REIGN
of SYDNEY.—SCHOOL
Evening. Third Week of Unpn
FREDERIC M
Who is hailed with enthusiastic
ous acclamation every evening
Monologne Entertainme
“BEGONE DULL
Or Exemplifications of the Mirt
Ventriloquial. The grace, beauty
tion of this memorable entertaii
enthusiastic comment in critical c
MACCABE . —S CH OC
EVERY EVEN!
In Twenty-four of his Original,
ful PERSONATIONS and SON(
and Diversified, replete with inter
and Situations. Every taste suit
dies. Operatic Selections, Piano
Exposition of Ventriloquism and
tions. Business Manager, Mr. F.
ASO N I C
Lessee and Director
Business Manager M
Business Manager for the Mendeli
Mr. C. F. Hend
THE MENDELSSHON QUI
of BOSTON, U
For over thirty 3
the most perfect combination
Anerica, and unsurpassed
organization in the
FIRST APPEARANCE IN
commencing
SATURDAY, Ist OC TC
For SEVEN NIGHTS ONLY!
the musical annals of Australia !
soloists in the world in combinati-
ISIDOR SCHNITZLER
ERNST THIELE
THOS. RYAN Ist Viol
WM. SCHADE 2nd
HERR FREDERICK
Solo Violoncellist to His Majesty
This renewed Club will be assis
beautiful Prima Donna,
MISS CORA R. Ml
Mr. L. M. BAYLESS has the
that, in accordance with his def
musical public of Australia the
excellence to be obtained in the I
World, he has made arrangeme
Hendee, Manager of the celebrate
tette Club, of Boston, for a season
commence on Saturday, the Ist
concerts will be of such a chara
requirements of all lovers of mi
popular elements being judicious
be unique in the musical annals (
simple reason that the company is
ous, every performer being on th<
level the highest in the musical w
A LHALLA AND
GREAT AMERICAN
Department of
Sydney, 16th
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS I
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given tha
execute and take delivei
tioned Gold-mining Leases wit
this date, they will be declarec
Hunter and Macleat Mi
No. 490; J. Thomas and auothei
Connty of Gloucester, parish o
Application No. Copeland 266.
No. 491; John O'Neill and anot!
County of Gloucester, parish of 1
Application No Copeland 509.
No. 492; W. A. Smith, jun.;
County of Gloucester, parish
Application No. Copeland 510.
N > 493; M. S. Mont eagres ti ■
County of Gloucester, parish oi
Application No. Copeland 511.
No. 494; J. Saxby and others
County of Gloucester, parish of Bi
cation No Copeland 513.
No. 495 ; T. Dickson ; Portion 3
Gloucester, parish of Binders;
No Copeland 514.
No. 498; M. S. Monteagresti;
County of Gloucester, parish o
Application No. Copeland 518.
No. 499 ; Denis Bowes and others
County of Gloucester, parish o:
Application No. Copeland 520.
No. 501; Carl Scott and anothei
County of Gloucester, parish o
Application No. Copeland 523.
No. 502; John Hutchinson; :
County of Gloucester, parish o
Application No. Copeland 527.
No. 503; David Lowe and anot
gl ; County of Gloucester, parish
Application No. Copeland 530.
No 504; John Griffiths and anol
24; County of Gloucester, parish
Application No. Copeland 533.
No. 605; John Rice; Portion 1
Gloucester, parish of Know la; 4
No. Copeland 535.
No. 506; John Griffiths; Forth
of Gloucester, parish of Knowla;
No. Copeland 547.
No. 507; George Paterson and
QL 18; Connty of Gloucester, p
acres. Application No. Copeland
No. 508; James Murphy and oth
Connty of Gloucester, parish of
Application No. Dungog 6.
No. 509; G. Towns and anoth
County of Gloucester, parish ol
Application No. Dungog 7.
No. 510; William Smith and oth
County of Gloucester, parish o(
Application No. Dungog 20.
No. 511; James Garrett and anot
Connty of Gloucester, parish of
Application No. Dungog 27.
No. 512; William Patterson; Poi
of Gloucester, parish of Irralong
tion No Dungog 29.
No. 513; Thomas Page; Portioi
of Gloucester, parish of Irralong
tion No. Dungog 30.
No. 516 ; John D. Lord and anot
County of Gloucester, parish of
Application No. Dungog 35.
No. 518; John Lorkom and otl
Connty of Gloucester, parish of
Application No. Dungog 9.
No. 619; W. Vanderkolk and a
16; County of Gloucester, parish
Application No. Dungog 10.
No. 521; George Garrett and a
10; County of Gloucester, parish
Application No. Dungog 12.
No. 523; Andrew Fitzgerald and
9; County of Gloucester, parish i
Application No. Dungog 14.
No. 524; Andrew Fitzgerald and
2; County of Gloucester, parish c
37 p. Application No. Dungog 15.
No. 526; A. Q. Laurie and oth(
County of Gloucester, parish of
Application No Dungog 17.
No. 529; W, Smith and others
Connty of Gloucester, parish of
Application No. Dungog 21.
No. 530; W. Smith and othei
County of Gloucester, parish of
Application No. Dungog 22.
No. 531; James Murphy; Forth
Gloucester, parish of Irralong : s
No. Dungog 23.
No. 533; William Simmoads; Po
of Gloucester, parish of Irralong:!
No. Dungog 25.
No. 536; W. A. Smith, jun., a
No. or, 48; County of Gloucester,
3 acres. Application No. Copelam
No. 533; James M'Eae and oth
22; County of Gloucester, parish
Application No. Copeland 316.
No. 539 William Brims, sen., ai
Wn /IT 5A. /II - !
THE NEWSLETTER.
893 people at the Museum on Sunday afternoon.
In 1788 there were 29 sheep in Australia. Now
there are 92,000,000.
The Queen Co. No. 2, Charters Towers, has
crushed 1130 tons for 39690 z.
The farmers in Canterbury (N.Z.) have formed
a co-operative society. Capital £350,000.
One of the largest station properties in the
North-west is under offer Purchase money required,
£250,000.
Last Temora escort brought 40820 z. gold. The
prospects of the field are considered by the local
Herald to be “ glorious."
A Tenterfield constable has been suspended for
arresting a townsman, chaining him to a verandah-post,
and presenting a revolver at him.
William Bignell, committed for trial for the
manslaughter of his wife by supplying her with alco-
holic stimulants, contrary to medical advice, has died
in Darlinghurst of D.T.
The great Tasmania Gold Mining Co. has paid
£200,000 dividends in three years. Its £lO shares are
now worth £l3O. The Boyal Tasman has just crashed
40 tons which averaged soz.
A bushman’s swag was found under the Loddon
Eiver bridge recently, labelled “To let; the best of
friends must part." The philosophical owner is be-
lieved to have committed suicide.
Sydney doctors, who, in the "course of their
private practice meet with small-pox cases, will not
now inform the authorities of the fact. The official
statistics will therefore be worth little.
During the recent heat-wave which passed over
.England, a London doctor wrote to the newspapers
asserting that the simplest way to avoid the effects of
the sun’s rays was to rub the head over with fat.
Trouble in Dunedin (N.Z.) over the tramways.
The Eoslyn Co. there have been served with writs for
damages by some of the accident sufferers on the line.
In one case, the wife of Mr. H. Mayo claims £2OOO.
Fong Ah See, a Stawell (Vic.) Chinaman, pro-
duced 10 tons of tobacco from his farm of twenty
acres. This he sold at 7d. per lb., thus netting in one
year £653. Yet the cry is that farming will not pay.
On the Johnstone Eiver (N.Q.). Mr, Fitzgerald
has already 80 acres of cane, which is looking splendid.
The density is at present 10, and, were the cane to go to
the mill now, it would probably give three tons to the
acre.
The Melbourne hospital committee has decided
to make a small charge for out-patients in the form of
a registration fee, with exemptions only in cases of
poverty. This is expected to yield a considerable
revenue.
Someone recently asserted that the west coast
of Tasmania has not yet produced 20 oz. of gold. As
a matter of fact. Allright and Co., a few months since,
purchased at their general store, on the Pieman, over
SO oz. from miners on the field.
A skeleton, supposed to be that of a man named
Bradburn (brother of the Bradburn who was recently
lost in the bush at Tinana and perished), has been
found in the bush near Monduran, Wide Bay (Q.),
Bradburn disappeared four years ago.
A valuable block of land, corner of Queen and
Collins streets, Melbourne, recently bought by the
B.S. and A C. Bank, was found to have a defective title.
The matter has now been arranged, and the purchase
money, £60,000, paid over. Building will soon com-
mence.
Mr. W. M. Mowbray, warden of the Etheridge,
who lately visited Woolgar, says thereof* there are, in
his opinion, the richest he has seen in N.Q. A five-
stamper battery is on its way. Mr. Crapp, the owner
of one reef, has guaranted to give this machine 1200
tons of stone at 355. per ton.
Michael Minton, the desperado who recently
broke gaol at Braidwood, and who was formerly
associated with the Clarke gang of bushrangers, still
evades capture. Mr. Wallace’s horse, said to have
been stolen by him, has been recovered, bearing evi-
dence of hard riding, in the region of the Jingera.
At Mount Heemskirk, Tasmania, Gubbina
Joseph Brown, miner, 22, tried to warm dynamite. It
blew him to bits. Dynamite is a good friend, but a
very bad enemy. Sad to relate, the mother of the poor
young fellow was informed in the same telegram of the
death of another of her sons, who was drowned on the
west coast.
Notwithstanding the many prospectuses now
before the public, Tasmanian mining is not in a healthy
condition. There is not enough available capital for
the proper development of the fields. If the specula-
tors of New South Wales but knew how bright the
outlook really is, they would give the Tight Little
Island a chance.
It now seems that the Victorian Government are
legally responsible for the results of the Jolimont
railway accident. Thelpermitted minimum thickness of
tires is one inch and a quarter, but the thickness of the
tire, the fracture of which caused the smash, was ouly
five-eighths of an inch. This is the point at which the
liability of the Crown commences.
An affair somewhat similar to the Farley case
at Sydney, and to the t'. M. Bates case at Melbourne,
has taken place at Dunedin. A Mr. Peter Campbell
was found dead In a right-of-way. He had been de-
prived of his watch and other valuables. A verdict of
"death from natural causes” was returned. However,
Peter Campbell, the evangelist, still lives.
Lefroy, charged with the Brighton murder, was
arrested by Inspector Swanston, who bounced into the
room where the suspected man was sitting, and called
out, “ I arrest you!" Lefroy never turned a hair, only
lazily opened his half-closed eyelids, looked at Swanston
«>r a minute, and then said, “ Very well. Take a seat."
Swanston says he never saw such a cool man in his
life.
. About the latest Tasmanian prospecting venture
is one started in New Norfolk, with 30 £lO shares. In
connection with it have been engaged the services of
Mr. Moore, lately associated with Mr. Thureau, when
'_ “ a t gentleman examined the West Coast. Mr. Moore
OdP started and the 11 village of shops and sleepy-
n>—lowness” may soon have something to startle it
out of its apathy.
Produce Report.
The Bulletin Office, September 21,1881.
9® the wharves, yesterday, prime green lucerne was
selling at £3 ss: ditto old bay, £2 15s to £3; medium
£2 10s. per ton. A fair supply of hay at
market, and business rather dull. At auction, Tuesday
Corning, several lines of lucerne hay were quitted at
?5 0e j ratl gi u ? from £1 16s 6d to £3 3s per ton. A fair
attendance of buyers.
Produce, —Maize, 2s 10d; oats, 3s per
sut l -Circular Head potatoes, £4; New Zealand
<Rtto, £2 to £2 15s per ton. Victorian onions, £l6 per
T? n ' Victorian chaff, £5 per ton, bags inclusive.
«ntter, m keg, 9d to Is per lb. Cheese. 5d to 8d per lb.
facon, 4d to 6d per lb. Ham, 6d to 81 per lb. Lard,
as t° . er lb. Esrgs, 7d to 8d per dozen. Beeswax,
to 10d per lb. Millet brooms, 9a per dozen.
—This market is easier; arrivals by sea, large,
superfine Sydney mill flour, £1310s; household, £1210s;
eeonds, £lllos per ton. Victorian, £ll 5s to £l2 10s
Per ton. Adelaide, £l3 to £l3 15s per ton.
dean and pollard. Is 4d to Is 6d per bushel.
wheat. —Millers are fairly stocked, and the market
‘a easier. Adelaide wheat, 5s 7d to 5s S'! ; N. S. Wales
“tto, 5s 4d to 5s 8d; Victorian ditto. 5s 3d to 5s 6d;
Launceston ditto, 5s 3d; New Zealand ditto, 4s 9d to 5s
Per bushel.
. Pom®®!,—Fowls were selling yesterday at 3s. 6d.
tn>v s- 9 , d „- > ducks, ss, to [ss. 6d.; geese, 6s. to 7s;
Po 3 ’ *? 8, to I'* 9 . P er pair, if good.
ShoH SR Meat.— At the Biverstone Meat Company’s
m Darling Harbour, the usual sales of fresh
killed beef take place daily. A fair supply
to 8 * demand. Prices are —For prime beef, 2Jd.
At !?' 1 * ) -: medium quality. 2d. per lb. all round,
firm „ j , mo bush Sales the fat cattle market was
Per ion ?,lebort 1 ebort supply forward. Best beef worth 255.
marv„f , ebeep—a fair supply forward and
*®t unaltered, 60 lb. wethers worth 11 s. 6d. each.


LIFFORD, LOVE,
TEA IMPORTERS
EASTERN AND COMMI
MERCHANTS,
Receive regular consignments,
receipt of
TEAS—China, all qualities
Do. Indian Prize Medal
CHUTNIES—Indian Prize
PRESERVES—Indian Priz
COFFEE —Plantation No.
Do. Peabe
Do. „ Nos. 1
RlCE—Saigon
Do. Patna
Do. Japan
TAPIOCA—FIake and Peai
SAGO
PEPPER —White and Blac
OFFICES :—79 YORK S
AND AT
EDWARD STREET, BR
o
TOH N D
IMPORTER OP
Plumbers’ and Engineers’ Brasswr
Qasfittings, Globes, Electric I
Butchers’ Brine Pc
Iron, Brass, Copper,
and Lead Pipe, &<
119 LIVERPOOL STREET,
235
PITT STREET
BEAUTIFUL .
diagoh a V£
ALLWOOL
|T„ TWEED
16 s
MOST PLEAS
S
A
F
E
S
T
!
A
N
D
WANTED TO B]
that the best cleansi
TANT and Deodoriser for tl
SMALL-POX and all other
CONTAGIOUS DIS
can be found by u
PANTER AND PARRY'S N
OF SOAP,
which not only contains th
clients for the greatest cleai
ever yet introduced to the
composed in its manufactun
best disinfectants.
(MADE PURELY FROM
PLANTS)
known, and admitted in all
throughout the globe. Combi
it is free from all injuriou
pleasing smell, will not inj ux
cate hands, is the greatest
labour, rendering any article
with of the purest whitenc
marvellous short space of tim
NO HOUSE SHOULD BE
as it cannot be surpassed fi
and Cleansing of
Clothes, Hands, Crocke
Paint, Floors,
and every Household.
DIRECTIONS for which v
EACH PACKET, which m
from all Grocers and Storek
out the Colony, and at the
WORKS, 700 GEORGE
SYDNEY
IN THE WOP
Dispense Prescriptions oheai
other House in Sydney. All 1
Medicines at less than English pr
Perfumery, Sponj
Ann KINDS OP DRXJQOISTS* 1
Send for a Price List. Country
ally attended to. Don't forget
Yon cannot mistake it —
Opposite Hordern’s New Bi
W. KERI
MANUFACTURING J
WATCH AND CLOCK
664 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite St. Andrew’s C
every description, Maso
sentation Trowels designed ai
Premises.
DIAMOND SETT;
A new and Choice Assortment <
Mail and always in e
Waltham Watches, from
KING STREET SI
T A II AD
THE CALIFORNIAN s .
Althouse Windmill.
THE CALIFORNIAN
ALTHOUSE
Is the
most popular
Millin Australia
and our sales
exceed
the Total
of all our
competitors.
We make a
Specialty
of the
Windmill
Business
and we contract
to prepare Plans of Water
Supply, erect Mills, and
deliver water to any
required point, (
We have the bed Stall ol
Windmill erector* In Auttralia
_ Write us for Catalogues.
MARTIN & PAIN, 38 % 8 ZT St ’
HORNSBY’S STEEL
Are unquestionably
They are the MOST CORRECT
They are the MOST Simple in (
They are the MOST FAITHFULl
They are the LIGHTEST in DR.
They are MADE of the BEST A
They do the BEST and CLEANt
■Vi 11 STEEL STRIFE
THE DRIVING WHEELS
THE PINION WHEELS
THE DRUM BEATERS
THE DRUM- SPINDLES
npiHE GREAT WANT OF THE AGE IS A REi
None better than WIGZELL’S OXFORD BATH in Syt
THEY ARE IN EVERY WAY COMPLETE.
TRY
ONE
WIGZELL
rd-street.
*o*
Oxford
SYDNEY
TA
And
On
0^
139 & 141 OXFORD STREET, SYDNE
PRIZE
AWARDED
SILVER MEDALS
AT PARIS
FOB
HERMITAGE.
IVIN ORDINAIRE
3/6
PER GALLON.
DINNER WINES 10/- per d
SHIRAZ
MADEIRA
\ Fruity I u <
) Wines i 1
BURGUNDY ■> Dry I 2 1/.
RIESLING J Wines S '
■ G. H. STEPHEN & CC
Wine Growers and Merchi
13 Bridge Street
HAVE YOU BEEN TO
